:if;!iii!itlii))tw»m)U 


tihravy  of  t:Ke  theological  Seminary 

PRINCETON  •  NEW  JERSEY 


^^i> 


PRESENTED  BY 


John  Stuart  Conning,  D.D. 

BM  500  .R6  1918  v. 1-2 
Talmud. 

New  edition  of  the 

Babylonian  Talmud 


NEW   EDITION        \ 


OF    THE 


Babylonian  Talmud 


©rtginal  Uejt  EbiteD,  Corrected,  3Formulate&,  an& 
Uran6late&  into  Engltsb 

BY 

MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


JFlrst  Bftftion  "Revise D  anO  Correcte& 

BY 

THE    REV.    DR.    ISAAC    M.    WISE 

President  Hebrew  Union  College,  Cincinnati,  O. 


Volume    L 
TRACT   SABBATH 


SECOND  EDITION,    RE-EDITED,    REVISED  AND   ENLARGED 


Boston 

THE  TALMUD  SOCIETY 

1918 


EXPLANATORY  REMARKS. 

In  our  translation  we  adopted  these  principles: 

}.  Tenan  of  the  original — We  have  learned  in  a  Mishna;  Tlawa— We  have 
learned  iu  a  Boraitha;  Jtemar — It  was  taught. 

3.  Questions  are  indicated  by  the  interrogation  point,  and  are  immediately 
followed  by  the  answers,  without  being  so  marked. 

3.  When  in  the  original  there  occur  two  statements  separated  by  the  phrase, 
Lishtia  achrena  or  IVaibayith  Aetna  ox Ikha  ^'a»«rj  (literally,  "otherwise  interpreted"), 
we  translate  only  the  second. 

4.  As  the  pages  of  the  original  are  indicated  in  our  new  Hebrew  edition,  it  is  not 
deemed  necessary  to  mark  them  in  the  English  edition,  this  being  only  a  translation 
from  the  latter. 

5.  Words  or  passages  enclosed  in  round  parentheses  (  )  denote  the  explanation 
rendered  by  Rashi  to  the  foregoing  sentence  or  word.  Square  parentheses  [  ]  contain 
commentaries  by  authorities  of  the  last  period  of  construction  of  the  Gemara. 


CoPrtlGMT,   1903,  B» 

MICHAEL  L.  KOUKINSON. 


Copyright  1916,  by 
NEW  TALMUD  lUBLISHING  SOCIETY 


TO 

EDWIN   R.   A.   SELIGMAN,    Ph.D. 

Professor  of  Political  Science  at  Columbia  University 

IN  RECOGNITION  OF 
VIS  WARM  INTEREST  AND  VALUABLE  SERVICES  IN  PROMOTING  THE 
STUDY  OF  LITERATURE,  AND  HIS  GREAT  INSTRUMENTALITY  IN  ASSISTING 
YOUNG  MEN  AND  WOMEN  TO  BROADEN  THEIR  MINDS,  AND  REACH  A 
HIGHER  SOCIAL  PLANE,  AND  FOR  HIS  MANY  WORKS  FOR  THE  COMMUNAL 
WELFARE,  ESPECIALLY   THOSE    IN   BEHALF    OF   THE 

EDUCATIONAL    ALLIANCE 

THIS   VOLUME    IS    MOST    RESPECTFULLY    DEDICATED    BY  THE 
EDITOR    AND    TRANSLATOR 

MICHAEL    L.    RODKINSON. 

June  15,  1901. 
New  York  City. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Preface  to  the  Second  Edition          .        .        ,        ,  vii 

Editor's  Preface ix 

Brief  General  Introduction  to  the  Babylonian  Talmud  xv 

Introduction  to  Tract  Sabbath         .....  xxi 

Synopsis  of  Subjects  of  Volume  I. — Tract  Sabbath         .  xxix 

CHAPTER   I. 
Regulations  concerning  Transfer  on  Sabbath        .         .         i 

CHAPTER   n. 

Regulations   concerning    the    Sabbath    and    'Hanukah 

Light 31 

CHAPTER   HI. 
Regulations  concerning  Stoves,  Hearths,  and  Ovens       .       63 

CHAPTER   IV. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Depositing  of  Victuals  on 

THE  Sabbath 83 

CHAPTER  V. 

Regulations  concerning  Gear  which  May  and  May  Not 

be  Worn  by  Animals  on  the  Sabbath  ...  91 

CHAPTER   VI. 

Regulations  concerning  What  Garments  (serving  as 
Ornaments)  Women  May  Go  Out  with  on  the 
Sabbath 107 


vi  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER   VII. 

PAGE 

The   General  Rule   concerning    the  Principal  Acts  of 

Labor  on  Sabbath 127 

CHAPTER   VIII. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Prescribed  Quantity  of 
Victuals  and  Beverages  which  Must  Not  be  Carried 
ABOUT  on  the  Sabbath 143 

CHAPTER   IX. 

Rabbi  Aqiba's  Regulations  on  Different  Subjects  ,     154 

CHAPTER   X. 

Further  Regulations  concerning  the  Prescribed  Quan- 
tity OF  Things  to  be  Stored 171 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SECOND  EDITION. 


The  translator  of  the  Talmud,  who  has  now  reached  the 
thirteenth  volume  of  his  task,  covering  twenty-one  tracts  of  this 
great  work,  certainly  cannot  point  with  any  great  pride  to  the 
fact  that  this  is  the  second  edition  of  his  translation  which  first 
appeared  in  1896,  for  he  believes  that  the  opening  and  bringing 
to  light  of  a  book  so  long  withheld  from  the  gaze  of  the  curious, 
and  even  the  learned,  should  have  attracted  more  attention  and 
deserved  greater  consideration  than  it  has  received.  However, 
he  is  glad  to  see  that  thousands  of  readers  have  at  last  taken 
advantage  of  the  opportunity  of  looking  into  the  "  sealed  book," 
and  to  such  an  extent  that  second  editions  have  become  neces- 
sary, both  of  this  volume  and  of  the  Tract  Rosh  Hashana  of 
the  fourth  volume,  which  he  has  reedited  and  enlarged  upon,  add- 
ing many  historical  facts  and  legends,  so  that  they  now  appear  as 
practically  new  works. 

This  is  certainly  an  encouragement  to  him  to  continue  his 
work^  with  the  hope  that  in  time  it  will  gain  the  proper  rec- 
ognition and  proper  attention  which  he  thinks  this  great  work 
of  the  sixth  century  should  receive  at  the  hands  of  all  scholars 
and  even  laymen. 

In  revising  this  volume  the  translator  had  in  mind  the  many 
criticisms  which  have  been  passed  upon  his  effort  and  which  have 
appeared  in  various  papers  throughout  different  countries,  but  he 
gave  his  attention  to  those  only  which  were  not  prompted  by 
animosity  and  jealousy.  He  begs  to  call  the  attention  of  all 
critics  to  the  dictum  of  the  Talmud,  "  Kal  Hat'haloth  Kashoth  " 
(all  beginnings  are  difficult) ;  for,  bearing  this  in  mind,  they  would 
no  doubt  have  been  more  moderate. 


viii  PREFACE    TO    THE    SECOND    EDITION. 

The  translator  will  be  very  grateful  to  critics  who  will  call  his 
attention  to  any  mistakes  made  in  the  translation  of  the  original 
text.  However,  he  will  positively  ignore  criticisms  of  the  kind 
described  above. 

The  translator  further   hopes  that  this   and   the  succeeding 

volumes  will  meet  with  the  favor  and  approval  of  the  public, 

which  will  be  sufificient  reward  to  repay  him  for  his  efforts. 

M.  L.  R. 
New  York,  June,  1901. 


EDITORS   PREFACE. 

[To  the  first  edition?^ 


The  Hebrew  edition  of  Rosh  Hashana  contains  an  elaborate 
introduction  in  three  chapters,  the  translation  of  which  does  not 
appear  as  yet.  Its  contents  include  many  important  rules  which 
we  have  followed  in  the  entire  work,  but  we  do  not  feel  called 
upon  at  this  time  to  engross  the  time  of  the  English  reader  by 
reciting  them.  We,  however,  deem  it  a  duty  to  %z.y  a  few  words, 
so  that  the  reader  may  understand  our  position  and  the  reason 
why  we  have  undertaken  a  work  which  will  probably  be  produc- 
tive of  much  adverse  criticism  in  certain  quarters. 

The  fate  of  the  Talmud  has  been  the  fate  of  the  Jews.  As 
soon  as  the  Hebrew  was  born*  he  was  surrounded  by  enemies. 
His  whole  history  has  been  one  of  struggle  against  persecution 
and  attack.  Defamation  and  deformation  have  been  his  lot.  So, 
too,  has  it  been  with  the  Talmud.  At  the  beginning  of  its  for- 
mative period,  viz.,  the  development  of  the  Mishna,  it  was  beset 
by  such  enemies  as  the  Sadducees,  the  Boethusians,  and  other 
sects,  not  to  mention  the  Roman  Government. f  When  its 
canon  was  fixed,  the  Karaites  tried  to  destroy  or  belittle  its  influ- 
ence, and  since  that  time  it  has  been  subjected  to  an  experience 
of  unvarying  difficulty.  Yet,  with  remarkable  truth,  the  words 
of  Isaiah  [xliii.  2]  may  be  applied  to  both :  "  When  thou  passest 
through  the  waters,  I  will  be  with  thee ;  and  through  the  rivers, 
they  shall  not  overflow  thee ;  when  thou  walkest  through  the  fire, 
thou  shalt  not  be  burned ;  neither  shall  the  flame  kindle  upon 
thee."  There  is,  however,  one  point  concerning  which  this  simile 
is  not  true.  The  Jew  has  advanced  ;  the  Talmud  has  remained 
stationary. 

Since  the  time  of  Moses  Mendelssohn  the  Jew  has  made  vast 
strides  forward.     There  is  to-day  no  branch  of  human  activity  in 

*  Vide  Genesis,  xliii.  32. 

f  In  our  forthcoming  "  History  of  the  Talmud  "  the  reader  will  find  all  details 
of  the  persecution,  until  the  present  time,  in  twenty  chapters. 


3j  EDITOR'S    PREFACE. 

which  his  influence  is  not  felt.  Interesting  himself  in  the  affairs 
of  the  world,  he  has  been  enabled  to  bring  a  degree  of  intelligence 
and  industry  to  bear  upon  modern  life  that  has  challenged  the 
admiration  of  the  world.  But  with  the  Talmud  it  is  not  so. 
That  vast  encyclopaedia  of  Jewish  lore  remains  as  it  was.  No 
improvement  has  been  possible;  no  progress  has  been  made  with 
it.  Issue  after  issue  has  appeared,  but  it  has  always  been  called 
the  Talmud  Babli,  as  chaotic  as  it  was  when  its  canon  was  origi- 
nally appointed.*  Commentary  upon  commentary  has  appeared ; 
every  issue  of  the  Talmud  contains  new  glosses  from  promi- 
nent scholars,  proposing  textual  changes,  yet  the  text  of  the 
Talmud  has  not  received  that  heroic  treatment  that  will  alone 
enable  us  to  say  that  the  Talmud  has  been  improved.  Few 
books  have  ever  received  more  attention  than  this  vast  store- 
house of  Jewish  knowledge.  Friends  and  enemies  it  has  had. 
Attack  after  attack  has  been  made  upon  it,  and  defence  after 
defence  made  for  it ;  yet  whether  its  enemies  or  its  defenders 
have  done  it  more  harm  it  would  be  hard  to  tell.  Not,  forsooth, 
that  we  do  not  willingly  recognize  that  there  have  been  many 
learned  and  earnest  spirits  who  have  labored  faithfully  in  its  be- 
half; but  for  the  most  part,  if  the  Talmud  could  speak,  it  would 
say,  "  God  save  me  from  my  friends  !  "  For  the  friends  have, 
generally,  defended  without  due  knowledge  of  that  stupendous 
monument  of  rabbinical  lore ;  and  the  enemies  have  usually 
attacked  it  by  using  single  phrases  or  epigrams  disconnected  from 
their  context,  by  which  method  anything  could  be  proven.  In 
both  cases  ignorance  has  been  fatal.  For,  how  many  have  read 
the  whole  Talmud  through  and  are  thus  competent  to  judge  of 
its  merits?  Is  it  right  to  attack  or  defend  without  sufificient 
information?  Is  it  not  a  proof  of  ignorance  and  unfairness  to 
find  fault  with  that  of  which  we  are  not  able  to  give  proper  testi- 
mony ? 

Let  us  take  the  case  of  those  persons  in  particular  who  attacked 
the  Talmud  and  made  it  the  object  of  their  venomous  vitupera- 
tion. Is  it  possible  that  they  could  have  believed  it  a  work  capa- 
ble of  teaching  the  monstrous  doctrines  so  frequently  attributed  to 
it,  when  that  work  says,  among  other  things,  "  When  one  asks  for 
food,  no  questions  shall  be  asked  as  to  who  he  is,  but  he  must 
immediately  be  given  either  food  or  money  "  ?  Could  a  work  be 
accused  of  frivolity  and  pettiness  that  defines  wickedness  to  be 


*  Vide  Brief  Introduction. 


EDITOR'S   PREFACE.  xi 

"  the  action  of  a  rich  man  who,  hearing  that  a  poor  man  is  about 
to  buy  a  piece  of  property,  secretly  overbids  him  "  ?  (Qiddushin, 
59«.)  Could  there  be  a  higher  sense  of  true  charity  than  that 
conveyed  by  the  following  incident  ?  Mar  Uqba  used  to  support 
a  poor  man  by  sending  him  on  the  eve  of  each  Day  of  Atonement 
four  hundred  zuz.  When  the  rabbi's  son  took  the  money  on 
one  occasion  he  heard  the  poor  man's  wife  say,  "  Which  wine 
shall  I  put  on  the  table  ?  Which  perfume  shall  I  sprinkle  around 
the  room  ?  "  The  son,  on  hearing  these  remarks,  returned  with 
the  money  to  his  father  and  told  him  of  what  he  had  heard. 
Said  Mar  Uqba:  "Was  that  poor  man  raised  so  daintily  that  he 
requires  such  luxuries?  Go  back  to  him  and  give  him  double 
the  sum  ?  "  (Ketuboth,  7^.)  This  is  not  recorded  by  the  Talmud 
as  an  exception  ;  but  it  is  the  Talmudical  estimate  of  charity. 
The  Talmud  is  free  from  the  narrowness  and  bigotry  with  which 
it  is  usually  charged,  and  if  phrases  used  out  of  their  context,  and 
in  a  sense  the  very  reverse  from  that  which  their  author  intended, 
are  quoted  against  it,  we  may  be  sure  that  those  phrases  never 
existed  in  the  original  Talmud,  but  are  the  later  additions  of  its 
enemies  and  such  as  never  studied  it.  When  it  is  remembered 
that  before  the  canon  of  the  Talmud  was  finished,  in  the  sixth 
century,*  it  had  been  growing  for  more  than  six  hundred  years, 
and  that  afterward  it  existed  in  fragmentary  manuscripts  for 
eight  centuries  until  the  first  printed  edition  appeared ;  that  dur- 
ing the  whole  of  that  time  it  was  beset  by  ignorant,  unrelenting, 
and  bitter  foes ;  that  marginal  notes  were  easily  added  and  in 
after  years  easily  embodied  in  the  text  by  unintelligent  copyists 
and  printers,  such  a  theory  as  here  advanced  seems  not  at  all  im- 
probable. 

The  attacks  on  the  Talmud  have  not  been  made  by  the  ene- 
mies of  the  Jews  alone.  Large  numbers  of  Jews  themselves 
repudiate  it,  denying  that  they  are  Talmud  Jews,  or  that  they 
have  any  sympathy  with  it.  Yet  there  are  only  the  few  Karaites 
in  Russia  and  Austria,  and  the  still  fewer  Samaritans  in  Palestine, 
who  are  really  not  Talmud  Jews.  Radical  and  Reform,  Conser- 
vative and  Orthodox,  not  only  find  their  exact  counterparts  in 
the  Talmud,  but  also  follow  in  many  important  particulars  the 
practices  instituted  through  the  Talmud,  e.g.,  New  Year's  Day, 
Pentecost  (so  far  as  its  date  and  significance  are  concerned),  the 
Qaddish,  etc.     The  modern  Jew  is  the  product  of  the  Talmud, 

*  According  to  others,  in  the  eighth  century.     See  our  "  History  of  the  Talmud.' 


Xll 


EDITOR'S    PREFACE. 


which  we  shall  find  is  a  work  of  the  greatest  sympathies,  the 
most  liberal  impulses,  and  the  widest  humanitarianism.  Even 
the  Jewish  defenders  have  played  into  the  enemy's  hands  by 
their  weak  defences,  of  which  such  expressions  as  "  Remember 
the  age  in  which  it  was  written,"  or  "  Christians  are  not  meant  by 
'^enttles,'  but  only  the  Romans,  or  the  people  of  Asia  Minor," 
etc.,  may  be  taken  as  a  type. 

Amid  its  bitter  enemies  and  weak  friends  the  Talmud  has 
suffered  a  martyrdom.  Its  eventful  history  is  too  well  known  to 
require  detailing  here.  We  feel  that  every  attack  on  it  is  an  at- 
tack upon  the  Jew.  We  feel  that  defence  by  the  mere  citation 
of  phrases  is  useless  and  at  the  best  weak.  To  answer  the  attacks 
made  upon  it  through  ludicrous  and  garbled  quotations  were 
idle.  There  is  only  one  defence  that  can  be  made  in  behalf  of 
the  Talmud.     Let  it  plead  its  own  cause  in  a  modern  language! 

What  is  this  Talmud  of  which  we  have  said  so  much?  What 
is  that  work  on  which  so  many  essays  and  sketches,  articles  and 
books,  have  been  written?  The  best  reply  will  be  an  answer  in 
negative  form.  The  Talmud  is  not  a  commentary  on  the  Bible ; 
nor  should  the  vein  of  satire  or  humor  that  runs  through  it  be 
taken  for  sober  earnestness.*  Nor  is  the  Talmud  a  legal  code, 
for  it  clearly  states  that  one  must  not  derive  a  law  for  practical 
application  from  any  halakhic  statement,  nor  even  from  a  prece- 
dent, unless  in  either  case  it  be  expressly  said  that  the  law  or 
statement  is  intended  as  a  practical  rule  [Baba  Bathra,  130^^]. 
Further:  R.  Issi  asked  of  R.  Jo'hanan :  "What  shall  we  do  if  you 
pronounce  a  law  to  be  a  Halakha?"  to  which  R.  Jo'hanan  replied: 
"  Do  no  act  in  accordance  with  it  until  you  have  heard  from  me, 
*Go  and  practice.'"  Neither  is  the  Talmud  a  compilation  of 
fixed  regulations,  although  the  Shul'han  Arukh  would  make  it 
appear  so.  Yet,  even  when  the  Shul'han  Arukh  will  be  forgotten, 
the  Talmud  will  receive  the  respect  and  honor  of  all  who  love 
liberty,  both  mental  and  religious.  It  lives  and  will  live,  because 
of  its  adaptability  to  the  necessities  of  every  age,  and  if  any  proof 
were  needed  to  show  that  it  is  not  dead,  the  attacks  that  are  with 
remarkable  frequency  made  on  it  in  Germany  might  be  given  as 
the  strongest  evidence.  In  its  day  the  Talmud  received,  not  the 
decisions,  but  the  debates  of  the  leaders  of  the  people.  It  was 
an  independent  critic,  as  it  were,  adapting  itself  to  the  spirit  of 
the  times;  adding  where  necessary  to  the  teachings  of  former 


See  our  arlicie,  "  What  is  the  Talmud  ?"  in  the  prospectus. 


EDITOR'S    PREFACE.  xiii 

days,  and  abrogating  also  what  had  become  valueless  in  its  day. 
In  other  words,  the  Talmud  was  the  embodiment  of  the  spirit  of 
the  people,  recording  its  words  and  thoughts,  its  hopes  and  aims, 
and  its  opinions  on  every  branch  of  thought  and  action.  Reli- 
gion and  Ethics,  Education,  Law,  History,  Geography,  Medicine, 
Mathematics,  etc.,  were  all  discussed.  It  dealt  with  living  issues 
in  the  liveliest  manner,  and,  therefore,  it  is  living,  and  in  reading 
it  we  live  over  again  the  lives  of  its  characters. 

Nothing  could  be  more  unfair,  nothing  more  unfortunate  than 
to  adopt  the  prevailing  false  notions  about  this  ancient  encyclo- 
paedia. Do  not  imagine  it  is  the  bigoted,  immoral,  narrow  work 
that  its  enemies  have  portrayed  it  to  be.  On  the  very  contrary ; 
in  its  statements  it  is  as  free  as  the  wind.  It  permits  no  shackles, 
no  fetters  to  be  placed  upon  it.  It  knows  no  authority  but  con- 
science and  reason.  It  is  the  bitterest  enemy  of  all  superstition 
and  all  fanaticism. 

But  why  speak  for  it  ?  Let  it  open  its  mouth  and  speak  in 
its  own  defence  !  How  can  it  be  done  ?  The  Talmud  must  be 
translated  into  the  modern  tongues  and  urge  its  own  plea.  All 
that  we  have  said  for  it  would  become  apparent,  if  it  were  only 
read.  Translation  !  that  is  the  sole  secret  of  defence  !  In  trans- 
lating it,  however,  we  find  our  path  bristhng  with  difficulties.  To 
reproduce  it  as  it  is  in  the  original  is  in  our  judgment  an  impos- 
sible task.  Men  like  Pinner  and  Rawicz  have  tried  to  do  so  with 
single  tracts,  and  have  only  succeeded  in,  at  the  best,  giving 
translations  to  the  world  which  are  not  only  not  correct  but  also 
not  readable.  If  it  were  translated  from  the  original  text  one 
would  not  see  the  forest  through  the  trees.  For,  as  we  have  said 
above,  throughout  the  ages  there  have  been  added  to  the  text 
marginal  notes,  explanatory  words,  and  whole  phrases  and  sen- 
tences inserted  in  malice  or  ignorance,  by  its  enemies  and  its 
friends.*  As  it  stands  in  the  original  it  is,  therefore,  a  tangled 
mass  defying  reproduction  in  a  modern  tongue.  It  has  conse- 
quently occurred  to  us  that,  in  order  to  enable  the  Talmud  to 
open  its  mouth,  the  text  must  be  carefully  edited.  A  modern 
book,  constructed  on  a  supposed  scientific  plan,  we  cannot  make 
of  it,  for  that  would  not  be  the  Talmud ;  but  a  readable,  intel- 
ligible work,  it  can  be  made.  We  have,  therefore,  carefully  punc- 
tuated the  Hebrew  text  with  modern  punctuation  marks,  and 
have  reedited  it  by  omitting  all  such  irrelevant  matter  as  inter- 

*  In  others  of  our  works  we  have  named  some  of  these  interpolators. 


xiv  EDITOR'S    PREFACE. 

rupted  the  clear  and  orderly  arrangement  of  the  various  argu- 
ments. We  have  also  omitted  repetitions;  for  frequently  the 
same  thing  is  found  repeated  in  many  tracts ;  while  in  this  trans- 
lation each  statement  is  to  be  found  only  once,  and  in  the  proper 
place  for  it.  In  this  way  there  disappear  those  unnecessary  de- 
bates within  debates,  which  only  serve  to  confuse  and  never  to 
enlighten  on  the  question  debated.  Thus  consecutiveness  has 
been  gained,  but  never  at  the  expense  of  the  Talmud,  for  in  no 
case  have  we  omitted  one  single  statement  that  was  necessary  or 
of  any  importance.  In  other  words,  we  have  merely  removed 
from  the  text  those  accretions  that  were  added  from  outside 
sources,  which  have  proven  so  fruitful  a  source  of  misunderstand- 
ing and  misrepresentation. 

We  continue  our  labors  in  the  full  and  certain  hope  that  "  he 
who  comes  to  purify  receives  divine  help,"  and  that  in  our  task 
of  removing  the  additions  made  by  the  enemies  of  the  Talmud 
we  shall  be  purifying  it  from  the  most  fruitful  source  of  the  at- 
tacks made  on  it,  and  thereunto  we  hope  for  the  help  of  Heaven. 
As  we  have  already  said,  we  feel  that  this  work  will  not  be  received 
everywhere  with  equal  favor.  We  could  not  expect  that  it  would. 
Jewish  works  of  importance  have  most  usually  been  given  amid 
"lightning  and  thunder,"  and  this  is  not  likely  to  prove  an  excep- 
tion. 

We  are  always  ready  to  accept  criticism,  so  long  as  it  is  objec- 
tive, and  we  shall  gladly  avail  ourselves  of  suggestions  given  to 
us,  but  we  shall  continue  to  disregard  sdl  J>ersona/ criticism  directed 
not  against  our  work  but  against  its  author.  This  may  serve  as 
a  reply  to  a  so-called  review  that  appeared  in  one  of  our  Western 
weeklies. 

At  the  same  time  we  deem  it  our  duty  to  render  to  Dr.  Isaac 
M.  Wise,  the  venerable  President  of  the  Hebrew  Union  College 
of  Cincinnati,  our  heartfelt  thanks  for  the  several  evenings  spent 
in  revising  this  volume,  and  for  many  courtesies  extended  to  us 
in  general. 

The  Editor. 

Cincinnati,  May,  1896. 


BRIEF   GENERAL    INTRODUCTION 

TO   THE 

BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 


On  this,  the  appearance  of  our  latest  literary  undertaking,  we 
deem  a  few  explanatory  remarks  necessary.  The  brief  outline  of 
the  origin  of  the  Talmud  that  follows  may  suggest  the  thought 
that  we  have  departed  from  the  usual  manner  of  dealing  with  the 
questions  here  discussed,  the  more  so  since  we  have,  for  the  sake 
of  brevity,  refrained  from  citing  the  authorities  on  which  our 
statements  are  based.  We  wish,  therefore,  to  declare  here  that 
we  do  not  venture  to  make  a  single  statement  without  the  sup- 
port of  authorities  well  known  in  Hebrew  literature.  Our  method 
is  to  select  such  views  as  seem  to  us  the  best  authenticated 
in  the  historical  progress  of  Judaism.  As  we  have  taken  our 
choice  from  the  numerous  works  on  our  subject,  the  student  is 
entitled  to  adopt  or  to  reject  the  views  that  we  represent. 

Most  of  the  Mishnayoth  date  from  a  very  early  period,  and 
originated  with  the  students  of  the  Jewish  academies  which  ex- 
isted since  the  days  of  Jehoshaphat,  King  of  Judah  [II  Chron. 
xvii.  9]. 

The  rabbinical  students  of  ancient  times  noted  the  essence  of 
the  academical  teachings  in  brief  form,  and,  as  a  rule,  in  the 
idiom  in  which  it  was  spoken  to  them,  so  that  they  could  after- 
ward easily  commit  it  to  memory.  They  have  sometimes,  how- 
ever, added  comments  and  extensive  explanations  in  the  form  of 
notes,  so  that  the  mass  of  their  learning,  embraced  in  course  of 
time,  according  to  some  authorities,  as  many  as  six  hundred 
divisions. 

The  source  of  the  Mishnayoth  was  the  customs  and  regula- 


xvi  BRIEF    GENERAL   INTRODUCTIOxN. 

tions  practised  by  the  authorities  in  their  administration  of  reHg- 
ious  and  civil  affairs  :  such  as  the  Sabbath,  Prayers,  CleanHness 
(considered  actually  Godliness),  Permitted  and  Forbidden  Foods, 
and  controversies  arising  concerning  Slavery.  Indebtedness  and 
corporal  punishment  are  subjects  of  academical  discussion,  con- 
ducted with  the  aim  of  perfecting  them  into  national  statutes 
enforcible  in  all  Jewish  communites  alike. 

In  course  of  time,  however,  when  those  Mishnayoth  were 
noted  down  from  earlier  existing  copies,  many  additions  were 
made.  Finally  Rabbi  Jehudah  the  Prince,  generally  called  Rabbi, 
concluded  to  collect  all  the  Mishnayoth  in  his  college  for  proper 
arrangement.  From  these  he  selected  six  divisions,  called  ac- 
cording to  the  subject  they  deal  with,  viz.:  Seeds,  Feasts,  Women, 
Damages,  Sacrifices,  and  Purifications,  and  he  proclaimed  them 
holy  for  all  Israel.  Of  the  Mishnayoth  so  treated  by  Rabbi  some 
were  left  entirely  intact,  and  were  reproduced  in  their  original 
form.  To  others  he  parenthetically  added  brief  comments  of 
his  own,  and  there  are  still  others  that  he  changed  in  form  com- 
pletely, because  already  in  his  day  old  customs  had  changed  and 
taken  new  forms. 

Such  of  them  as  he  desired  to  make  final  and  indisputable 
national  laws  he  incorporated  into  the  Mishna  without  mention- 
ing the  names  of  their  authors.  Where,  however,  he  could  for- 
mulate no  definite  decision  himself,  or  where  they  were  well  known 
to  the  public,  he  gave  full  information  of  their  authors  as  well  as 
the  names  of  those  opposed  to  their  conclusions,  without  any  de- 
cision on  his  part.  In  still  others  he  menticned  no  names,  but  con- 
tented himself  with  saying  "  A'herim,"  i.e.,  "  Anonymous  teachers 
say,"  not  wishing  to  specify  their  authority  for  certain  reasons. 

Rabbi  did  not  seek  the  compliance  and  agreement  of  all  his 
contemporaries  in  his  arrangement  of  the  Mishna,  and  many 
differed  from  his  conclusions  and  even  arranged  Mishnayoth  in 
accordance  with  their  own  views.  Being,  however,  a  man  of 
great  prominence,  influence,  and  wealth,  Rabbi  succeeded  in 
quelling  opposition  and  in  making  his  conclusions  as  acceptable 
as  the  Mosaic  law  itself ;  and  his  great  pupils,  seeing  that  his  in- 


BRIEF   GENERAL   INTRODUCTION.  xvii 

tenllons  were  only  to  prevent  dissensions  and  his  only  aim  the 
public  weal,  supported  him  nobly,  until  his  teachings  were  ac- 
cepted as  the  law  of  the  nation. 

Many  Mishnayoth  were  rejected  and  destroyed  by  Rabbi, 
but,  not  being  in  possession  of  all  those  he  wished  to  destroy,  he 
went  in  search  of  them  to  colleges  outside  of  his  jurisdiction. 
There,  however,  he  met  with  great  opposition-  Some  of  the 
Mishnayoth  were  hidden  beyond  his  reach,  others  were  secretly 
preserved  and  arranged  within  the  very  limits  of  his  domain  and 
promptly  brought  to  light  after  his  death.  But  Rabbi's  pupils 
did  not  dignify  them  with  the  name  MiSHNA,  implying  "  next  to 
Mosaic  law,"*  but  called  them  TOSEPHTOTH,  meaning  "addi- 
tions of  a  later  period,"  or  merely  additional,  not  principal,  mat- 
ter. Some  of  them  were  also  named  BORAITHOTH  (outsiders), 
i.e.,  secondary,  not  academical  matter.  They  spread,  however, 
very  rapidly  after  Rabbi's  death,  and  to  such  an  extent  as  to 
threaten  the  Mishnayoth  of  Rabbi  with  entire  extinction.  Such 
would  actually  have  been  the  result,  had  not  the  pupils  of  Rabbi 
organized  again  colleges  whose  aim  was  to  perpetuate  the  Mish- 
nayoth of  Rabbi,  which  they  also  accomplished.  Colleges  of 
that  character  were  those  of  Rabh  and  Samuel  in  Babylon  and 
Rabbi  Janai  and  Rabbi  Jo'hanan  in  Palestine.  These  colleges 
made  strenuous  efforts  to  explain  and  harmonize  the  Mishnayoth 
of  Rabbi  with  the  teachings  of  the  Boraithoth,  generally  regarded 
as  those  of  Rabbi  Hyya  and  Rabbi  Oshia,  who  were  greatly  ad- 
mired by  the  public.  At  times  the  Mishna  of  Rabbi  was  abbre- 
viated and  replenished  with  the  text  of  the  Boraitha,  or  explained 
with  an  opposing  opinion,  so  as  to  harmonize  it  with  the  latter  or 
suit  the  new  conditions  and  consequent  changes  of  the  custom 
that  originally  caused  the  conclusion  of  the  Mishna.  Where, 
hoAvever,  they  found  no  other  way  to  suit  their  purpose,  they  in- 
serted a  new  Mishna  of  their  own  composition  into  the  text  of 
Rabbi. t 

*  See  Mielziner's  "  Introduction  to  the  Talmud,"  page  6. 

f  This  was  done  by  Rabh  and  R,  Jo'hanan,  the  heads  of  the  colleges  in  Babylon 
and  Palestine;  and  in  many  passages  of  the  Talmud  the  latter  exclaims:  "This 


xviii  BRIEF   GENERAL   INTRODUCTION. 

The  teachers  mentioned  in  the  Mishna  of  Rabbi  or  in  the 
Boraithoth  and  Tosephta  were  called  Tanaim  {singular  Tana) 
signifying  Instructors,  Professors.  The  teachings  of  the  colleges, 
covering  a  period  of  some  centuries,  which  also  found  adherents 
and  became  the  trad'tional  law,  were  called  Gemara,  signify- 
ing "conclusion."  The  intention  was  to  harmonize  Mishna  and 
Boraitha,  and,  in  most  cases,  to  arrive  at  a  final  decision  as  to 
the  proper  interpretation  Oi  the  theory  of  the  law  (as  Rabbi 
Jo'hanan  prohibited  compliance  with  the  Halakha  unless  it  is 
mandatory).  These  Gemara  teachers  were  called  Amoraim  (in- 
terpreters), i.e.,  they  interpreted  to  the  public  the  difificult  pas- 
sages in  the  Mishna.  Being  classified  as  interpreters  only,  they 
had  no  authority  to  deviate  from  the  spirit  of  the  Mishna  unless 
supported  by  another  Tana  opposing  the  Mishna,  in  which  case 
they  could  follow  the  opinion  of  the  Tana  with  whom  they 
agreed.  Rabhina  and  R.  Ashi,  who  lived  at  the  end  of  the  fifth 
century  (third  century  of  Amoraim),  began  to  arrange  the  Ge- 
mara, but  without  success,  and  commenced  a  second  time  to  ar- 
range it.  Unfortunately  they  died  before  accomplishing  their  task, 
and  the  Gemara  had  to  undergo  the  chances  of  transmission  from 
hand  to  hand  until  the  appearance  upon  the  scene  of  Rabana 
Jose,  president  of  the  last  Saburaic  College  in  Pumbeditha,  who 
foresaw  that  his  college  was  destined  to  be  the  last,  owing  to  the 
growing  persecution  of  the  Jews  from  the  days  of  "  Firuz."  He 
also  feared  that  the  Amoraic  manuscripts  would  be  lost  in  the 
coming  dark  days  or  materially  altered,  so  he  summoned  all  his 
contemporary  associates  and  hastily  closed  up  the  Talmud,  pro- 
hibiting any  further  additions^  This  enforced  haste  caused  not 
only  an  improper  arrangement  and  many  numerous  repetitions 
and  additions,  but  also  led  to  the  "  talmudizing "  of  articles 
directly  traceable  to  bitter  and  relentless  opponents  of  the  Tal- 
mud. The  time  (Rabana  Jose  conducted  his  college  only  seven- 
teen years)  being  too  short  for  a  proper  and  critical  review  of 

Mishna  was  taught  in  the  time  of  Rabbi  ! "  which  means  that  Rabbi  himself  was  not 
aware  of  it.  See  Weiss'  "  Traditions  of  the  Oral  Law,"  under  the  head  "  Mishna 
and  Rabbi." 


BRIEF   GENERAL   INTRODUCTION.  xix 

each  and  every  subject,  many  theories  were  surreptitiously  added 
by  its  enemies,  with  the  purpose  of  making  it  detestable  to  its 
adherents.  Of  such  character  is  the  expression,  "  That  of  R. 
Ashi  is  a  fabrication,"  which  is  repeated  numerous  times  through- 
out the  Talmud  and  which  could  by  no  means  have  originated 
with  the  Amoraim,  who  as  a  rule  were  very  guarded  in  their  ex- 
pressions and  would  never  have  dreamed  of  applying  it  or  simi- 
lar expressions  to  such  Talmudical  authorities  as  R.  Ashi  and 
Mar,  his  son,  much  less  to  the  Patriarchs  or  the  Prophets.  This 
closing  up  of  the  Talmud  did  not,  however,  prevent  the  importa- 
tion  of  foreign  matter  into  it,  and  many  such  have  crept  in 
through  the  agency  of  the  "  Rabanan  Saburai"  and  the  Gaonim 
of  every  later  generation. 

The  chief  aim  of  the  authors  of  the  Gemara  being  to  perpetu- 
ate the  Mishna  as  the  sole  source  of  the  Jewish  religious  and  civil 
code  after  the  Mosaic  laws  themselves,  they  not  only  directed  all 
their  energy  to  the  discussion  and  perfecting  of  its  deductions, 
but  treated  its  very  words  and  letters  as  inspired  and  as  holy  as 
the  Bible  itself,  forming  at  times  conclusions  from  a  superfluous 
word  or  letter.  Oftentimes,  when  they  found  the  Mishna  differ- 
ing with  an  established  custom  in  their  days,  they  resorted  to 
subtle  inquiry  and  minute  discussion,  until  they  succeeded  in 
establishing  harmony  between  the  differing  points.  All  these 
efforts  were  directed  to  refute  and  disprove  the  assertions  of  the 
different  sects  who  opposed  the  oral  law  and  who  were  inclined 
to  adhere  to  the  written  law  solely.  Therefore  the  Rabbis  of  the 
Gemara  said  "  Minalan  ?"  (Wherefrom  its  source  ?)  or  "  MiNOH 
Hanne  Mili  ?  "  (which  means  "  Whence  is  all  this  deduced  ?  "  )  in 
the  treatment  of  a  subject  not  plainly  specified  in  the  Bible;  and 
also  the  exclamatory  remark  "  Peshita  !  "  (It  is  self-evident!)  as 
regards  subjects  plainly  enumerated  in  the  Scriptures  which  do 
not  admit  of  any  other  interpretation.  Of  the  same  origin  is  the 
question  "  Lemai  HiLKHETHA?"  (For  what  purpose  was  this 
Halakha  stated  ?)  with  reference  to  an  obsolete  custom.  So  much 
for  the  general  history  of  the  Talmud. 


INTRODUCTION    TO  TRACT   SABBATH. 


With  this  tract  we  commence  the  translation  of  the  section 
of  the  Talmud  called  Moed  (Festivals),  containing  the  following 
tracts :  Sabbath,  Erubhin,  Rosh  Hashana,  Yuma,  Shekalim,  Suk- 
kah,  Megillah,  Taanith,  Pesachim,  Betzah,  Hagigah,  and  Moed 
Katan.  All  these  tracts  are  entirely  devoted  to  precepts  pertain- 
ing to  the  observance  of  the  festivals  and  Sabbath,  such  as  the 
performance  of  the  different  ritual  ceremonies  on  feast-days,  the 
manner  of  sanctifying  the  Sabbath,  and  the  ordinances  relating 
to  mourning  for  the  dead  both  on  Sabbath  and  week-days. 

The  commandments  on  which  these  precepts  are  founded,  or 
from  which  they  are  derived,  are  contained  in  various  portions 
of  the  Pentateuch,  The  fourth  commandment  of  the  Decalogue 
enacts  (Exod.  xx.  8-11  and  Deut.  v.  12-15):  "The  seventh 
day  shall  ye  keep  holy."  In  various  other  parts  of  the  Pentateuch 
the  due  observance  of  the  Sabbath  is  repeatedly  ordained ;  in 
some  instances  merely  mentioning  the  day  as  one  to  be  kept 
inviolate  and  holy ;  and  in  others  employing  greater  emphasis, 
referring  to  the  history  of  creation,  and  establishing  the  obser* 
vance  as  a  sign  of  the  covenant  between  the  Lord  and  Israel. 
Such  texts  are  Exod.  xiii.  12  ;  xvi.  15  ;  xxxi.  13-17  ;  xxxiv.  21  ; 
XXXV.  1-3;  Lev.  xix.  29;  xxiii.  32;  Num.  xv.  9,  etc.  While  the 
general  principle  is  thus  frequently  inculcated,  its  special  applica- 
tion, however,  and  specific  enactments  as  to  what  constitutes  a 
violation  of  the  Sabbath,  are  nowhere  fully  carried  out  in  the 
Pentateuch,  and  thus  but  few  texts  of  the  Scriptures  serve  as  a 
direct  basis  for  the  minute  and  numerous  enactments  of  the  rab- 
binical law. 

The  Mishna  enumerates  thirty-nine  "Abhoth"  or  principal  acts 


xxii  INTRODUCTION   TO   TRACT   SABBATH. 

of  labor,  the  performance  of  any  one  of  which  constitutes  a  violation 
of  the  Sabbath.  Every  other  kind  o\  work  becomes  illegal  only 
if  it  can  be  classified  under  one  or  anj  of  these  principal  acts  of 
labor.  Thus,  for  instance,  under  the  principal  act  of  ploughing, 
every  analogous  kind  of  work,  such  as  digging,  delving,  weeding, 
dunging,  etc.,  must  be  classified.  In  addition  to  these  thirty-nine 
principal  acts  and  their  accessories  and  derivatives,  there  are  other 
acts  which  are  especially  prohibited  by  the  rabbinical  law  as  tend- 
ing to  violate  the  Sabbath  rest  (Shbhuth).  For  the  violation  itself 
various  degrees  of  culpability  are  established,  and  various  degrees 
of  punishment  awarded.  All  these  subjects  relating  to  the  due 
observance  of  the  Sabbath,  and  pointing  out  its  violation  in  every 
possible  way,  form  the  contents  of  the  treatise  Sabbath. 

In  order  properly  to  understand  the  Mishna,  ^  \d  to  avoid 
tedious  repetitions,  it  is  necessary  to  commence  with  the  explana- 
tion of  certain  general  principles  and  technical  expressions  pre- 
dominating in  the  text. 

Wherever  throughout  the  Mishna  the  expression  guilty,  cul- 
pable (Hayabh),  or  free  (Patur)  is  used,  the  meaning  of  the  former 
(guilty)  is  that  the  transgressor  acting  unintentionally  must  bring 
the  sin-offering  prescribed  in  the  law ;  of  the  second  expression 
(free),  that  the  accused  is  absolved  from  punishment. 

If  through  the  performance  of  an  unprohibited  act  some  other 
(prohibited)  occupation  is  inadvertently  entered  upon,  it  consti- 
tutes no  offence,  providing  the  latter  is  not  done  intentionally  nor 
the  lawful  occupation  entered  upon  with  the  covert  purpose  of 
making  it  serve  as  a  subterfuge  to  do  that  which  is  prohibited. 

In  the  degrees  of  violation  the  nature  of  the  occupation  must 
be  considered,  as  various  kinds  of  labor  may  be  required  to  per- 
form and  complete  one  act,  and  thus  the  offender  may  become 
amenable  to  several  penalties.  On  the  other  hand,  the  rule  is  laid 
down  that  such  occupations  as  only  destroy,  but  do  not  serve  an 
end  in  view,  do  not  involve  culpability  (in  the  rigorous  sense 
of  the  word) ;  nor  yet  does  work  which  is  but  imperfectly  or 
incompletely  performed  involve  culpability. 

The  prohibition  to  carry  or  convey  any  object  from  one  place 


INTRODUCTION    TO    TRACT    SABBATH.  xxiii 

to  another,  which  in  Chap.  I.,  §  i ,  of  this  treatise  is  called  "  Yetziath 
(Ha)  Shabbath  "  (which  means  transfer  on  the  Sabbath)  and  forms 
the  thirty-ninth  of  the  principal  acts  of  labor,  requires  particular 
attention  and  explanation  from  the  complexity  of  cases  to  which 
it  gives  rise.  All  space  was  by  the  Tanaim  divided  into  four  dis- 
tinct kinds  of  premises,  explained  in  the  Gemara  of  this  chapter. 
When  in  the  text  of  the  Mishna  the  question  is  about  carr>^ing 
and  conveying  from  one  place  to  another,  it  does  not  apply  to  the 
"  free  place,"  as  that  is  subject  to  no  jurisdiction.  Moreover,  the 
open  air  above  private  property  has  no  legal  limitation,  whereas 
that  over  public  property  or  unclaimed  ground  (carmelith)  only 
belongs  thereto  to  the  height  of  ten  spans  (see  explanation  of  the 
Gemara).  The  carrying  or  conveying  from  one  kind  of  premises 
to  another  does  not  constitute  a  complete  or  perfect  act,  unless 
the  same  person  who  takes  a  thing  from  the  place  it  occupies 
deposits  it  in  another  place. 

The  tracts  Sabbath  and  Erubhin  will  contain  the  laws  for  the 
observance  of  rest  on  Sabbath,  and  these  laws  can  be  divided  into 
two  separate  parts.  Firstly,  the  part  prohibiting  labor  on  the 
Sabbath  day,  at  the  same  time  defining  what  is  to  be  termed  labor 
and  what  does  not  constitute  an  act  of  labor ;  and  secondly,  the 
part  ordaining  how  the  day  is  to  be  sanctified  and  distinguished 
from  a  week-day  in  the  manner  of  eating,  drinking,  dress,  hght- 
ing  of  candles  in  honor  of  the  Sabbath,  and  incidentally  the 
lighting  of  candles  in  honor  of  the  festival  of  'Hanukah  (the  Mac- 
cabees). 

It  has  been  proven  that  the  seventh  day  kept  holy  by  the  Jews 
was  also  in  ancient  times  the  general  day  of  rest  among  other 
nations,*  and  was  usually  spent  by  the  people  of  those  days  in 
much  the  same  way  as  it  is  spent  now,  wherever  local  laws  do  not 
restrict  buying  and  selling,  namely :  In  the  forenoon  prayers  were 
recited  and  the  necessities  of  life  for  the  day  were  bought,  while 

*  In  a  table  compiled  by  Rev.  A.  H.  Lewis,  Alfred  Centre,  N.  Y.,  1884,  in  his 
work  entitled  "  Biblical  Teachings,  concerning  the  Sabbath  and  the  Sunday,"  it  is 
shown  that  among  nearly  all  nations  the  Sunday  is  the  first  and  the  Sabbath  the 
seventh  day  of  the  week. 


xxiv  INTRODUCTION    TO    TRACT    SABBATH. 

the  afternoon  was  devoted  to  pleasure-seeking,  merrymaking,  vis- 
iting, and  so  forth.  The  Jews  living  prior  to  the  time  of  Ezra 
and  Nehemiah,  and  even  during  the  latter's  regime,  were  wont  to 
spend  the  Sabbath  in  the  same  manner  as  their  pagan  neighbors. 
It  was  this  fact  that  caused  the  sages  of  Nehemiah's  time  to  fear 
that  should  the  Jews,  who  were  always  in  the  minority  as  com- 
pared with  other  nations,  continue  this  method  of  keeping  the 
Sabbath  and  join  in  the  merrymaking  and  pleasures  of  their  neigh- 
bors, mingling  freely  with  their  sons  and  daughters,  assimilation 
was  almost  inevitable,  especially  as  the  Jewish  race  was  scattered 
over  all  the  known  world  and  was  nowhere  in  very  large  numbers. 
The  sages  then  devised  means  to  keep  the  Jew  from  mingling 
with  the  Gentile  and  from  participating  in  the  pleasures  and 
carousals  of  his  neighbors.  This  can  be  seen  from  Nehemiah,  xiii. 
1-26 :  "  In  those  days  saw  I  in  Judah  some  treading  wine-presses 
on  the  Sabbath,"  etc.  "  In  those  days  also  saw  I  Jews  that  had 
married  wives  of  Ashdod,  of  Ammon,  and  of  Moab,"  etc.  "  Ye 
shall  not  give  your  daughters  unto  their  sons  nor  take  their  daugh- 
ters unto  your  sons,  or  for  yourselves."  Thus  we  see  that  Nehe- 
miah began  by  prohibiting  trafific  and  the  carrying  of  burdens  on 
the  Sabbath  [ibid,  xiii.  19]  and  ended  by  prohibiting  intermar- 
riage with  foreign  women.  About  this  time  also  another  prophet, 
the  second  Isaiah — who,  though  not  possessing  the  temporal 
power  of  Nehemiah,  was  gifted  with  that  persuasive  eloquence 
that  appealed  to  the  heart — preached  against  indulging  in  pleas- 
ures on  the  Sabbath  day.  He  says  [Isaiah,  Iviii.  13-14] :  "  If  thou 
turn  away  thy  foot  from  the  Sabbath  "  (meaning  if  thou  keep 
away  from  drinking-places,  dancing-houses,  etc.,  on  the  Sabbath 
and  follow  not  the  custom  of  other  nations),  "  and  call  the  Sab- 
bath a  delight  "  (meaning  the  rest  on  the  Sabbath  shall  constitute 
thy  pleasure),  "the  holy  of  the  Lord,  honorable ;  and  shalt  honor 
him,  not  doing  thine  own  ways,  nor  finding  thine  own  pleasure, 
nor  speaking  thine  own  words.  Then  shalt  thou  delight  thy- 
self in  the  Lord ;  and  I  will  cause  thee  to  ride  the  high  places  of 
the  earth,  and  feed  thee  with  the  heritage  of  Jacob  thy  father;  for 
the  mouth  of  the  Lord  hath  spoken  it."     (The  inference  is  very 


INTRODUCTION    TO    TRACT    SABBATH.  xxv 

plain.  The  prophet  wishes  to  impress  the  Jew  with  the  fact  that 
the  Lord  will  reward  those  with  the  heritage  of  Jacob  who  have 
kept  away  from  mingling  with  the  pleasures  of  other  nations. 
Read  ibid.  Ivii.,  especially  verses  lo,  ii,  and  12.) 

After  the  establishment  of  a  permanent  government  among 
the  Jews,  however,  it  was  found  that  the  exhortations  of  the  pro- 
phets after  the  manner  of  Isaiah  were  of  no  avail ;  the  people  still 
continued  seeking  pleasures  on  the  Sabbath,  after  the  manner  of 
other  nations,  and  were  still  wont  to  enjoy  the  pastimes  of  their 
neighbors.  The  enforcement  of  the  prohibition  of  carrying  bur- 
dens was  then  decided  upon  to  act  as  a  check  upon  the  people 
by  defining  minutely  the  meaning  of  burdens,  and  the  prohibition 
was  interpreted  to  include  not  only  heavy  burdens,  but  all  port- 
able articles,  such  as  money,  trinkets,  eatables,  etc.,  while  only 
necessary  articles  of  clothing  and  apparel  were  permitted  to  be 
worn.  To  such  an  extent  was  the  matter  carried  that  even  the 
wearing  of  rings,  with  the  exception  of  such  as  had  the  name  of 
the  wearer  engraved  upon  them,  was  not  permitted.  In  fact, 
everything  that  could  be  converted  into  money  was  included  in 
the  definition  of  burdens.  Beggars  were  not  permitted  to  solicit 
alms  on  the  Sabbath,  contrary  to  the  customs  of  other  nations,  so 
as  not  to  afford  any  one  an  excuse  for  carrying  money  on  that  day. 

The  enforcement  of  such  a  law,  however,  was  practically  im- 
possible in  the  case  of  people  who  remained  in  their  houses,  and 
certain  modifications  were  made.  These  modifications  were  as 
follows:  The  laws  were  made  to  apply  only  on  public  grounds 
but  were  not  valid  on  private  grounds,  so  that  in  a  private  house 
a  person  was  permitted  to  carry  whatever  was  necessary.  Private 
grounds  were  also  established  by  the  institution  of  Erubhin,  i.e., 
where  a  street  or  a  public  place  was  inhabited  by  Jews  alone  a 
small  amount  of  meal  was  collected  from  each  household ;  from 
the  meal  a  cake  was  made  and  hung  conspicuously  in  that  local- 
ity. The  point  where  the  street  inhabited  by  Jews  alone  com- 
menced  and  the  point  where  it  ended  were  joined  by  a  piece  of 
twine,  and  thus  definitely  marked.  Thus  public  grounds  were 
turned  into  private  grounds,  from  the  fact  that  each  household 


xxvi  INTRODUCTION    TO    TRACT    SABBATH. 

contributing  a  share  of  meal  made  them  all  in  a  manner  copart- 
ners in  one  object.  The  walking  of  more  than  two  thousand  ells 
outside  of  the  city  limits  was  also  prohibited.  Within  the  city- 
limits,  be  the  city  ever  so  large,  walking  was  permitted. 

The  possibility  of  confinement  in  the  house  on  the  Sabbath 
becoming  conducive  to  the  performance  of  labor  was  offset  by 
the  establishment  of  a  law  prohibiting  all  the  different  modes  of 
labor  used  in  the  construction  of  the  tabernacle,  besides  all  man- 
ner of  agricultural  labor.  This  again  brought  about  the  detailing 
of  all  the  different  modes  of  labor  employed  in  the  construction 
of  the  tabernacle  and  in  agriculture,  all  of  which  is  discussed  in 
these  treatises  of  Sabbath  and  Erubhin. 

Naturally  the  institution  of  laws  carries  with  it  provisions  for 
the  penalties  attending  their  infraction,  and  these  penalties  were 
divided  into  three  classes: 

First,  the  penalties  for  unintentional  infractions. 

Secondly,  for  intentional  infractions. 

Thirdly,  for  intentional  violations  where  the  violator  had  been 
previously  forewarned  of  the  penalty  by  two  witnesses. 

The  penalty  for  the  first  class  of  infractions  was  simply  the 
sacrificing  of  a  sin-offering,  which,  however,  involved  a  great 
many  hardships,  as  the  culprit  had  to  bring  the  sin-offering  to  the 
temple  in  Jerusalem  in  person,  and  was  frequently  compelled  to 
travel  quite  a  distance  in  order  to  do  so,  besides  sustaining  the 
loss  of  the  value  of  the  offering. 

For  the  second  class,  if  two  witnesses  testified  before  the  tri- 
bunal that  the  culprit  had  labored  on  the  Sabbath,  and  the  culprit 
admitted  that  he  had  done  so  intentionally,  no  penalty  was  in- 
flicted by  the  tribunal,  but  the  person  was  told  that  he  would  be 
punished  by  the  heavenly  power  with  the  curse  of  Karath  (short- 
ening his  allotted  time  of  existence  on  earth).  No  penalty  was 
inflicted,  for  the  reason  that,  the  culprit  having  made  himself 
liable  to  severe  punishment  from  superhuman  sources,  it  served 
as  an  excuse  to  absolve  him  from  human  punishment.* 

*  Because  it  is  a  rule  of  rabbinical  law  that,  of  two  punishments  incurred  by  one 
act,  the  severer  one  is  meted  out  Qam  leh  bid'rabba  mineh. 


INTRODUCTION    TO    TRACT    SABBATH.  xxvii 

For  the  third  class,  however,  when  the  culprit  openly  defied 
the  existing  authority  and  in  spite  of  forewarnings  persisted  in 
violating  the  law,  he  was  considered  a  traitor  to  the  government, 
to  be  sentenced  to  death  by  stoning,  as  was  the  wood-gatherer 
[Numbers,  xv.  32]. 

It  is  upon  these  laws  that  the  discussions  in  the  treatises  Sab- 
bath and  Erubhin  are  based,  and  in  addition  the  reader  will  find 
many  ethical  laws,  legends,  and  the  enumeration  of  such  enjoy- 
ments as  are  permitted  on  the  Sabbath  day  and  the  festivals. 

In  addition  to  the  above  we  would  make  the  following  cita- 
tions from  the  text  of  the  Talmud,  as  a  necessary  feature  of  the 
introduction : 

I.  We  find  in  the  Tract  Sabbath,  6ib  and  g6b,  the  story  of 
the  mysterious  scroll  which  Rabh  claimed  to  have  found  in  the 
house  of  his  uncle,  R.  Hyya.  This  scroll  referred  to  the  principal 
acts  of  labor  prohibited  on  the  Sabbath,  which  were  forty  less 
one.  Rabh  discovered  in  this  scroll  the  statement  of  R.  Issi  b. 
Jehudah  to  the  effect  that  although  thirty-nine  principal  acts  of 
labor  are  enumerated,  only  one  of  them  makes  a  man  actually 
culpable.  The  Gemara  then  amends  this  statement  and  declares 
that  it  should  read :  "  One  of  the  thirty-nine  does  not  involve 
culpability,"  but  does  not  mention  which  one  it  is.  Consequently 
it  remains  doubtful  which  act  it  is  that  does  not  involve  culpa- 
bility, and  where  a  doubt  exists  as  to  whether  an  act  is  prohibited 
or  not  no  punishment  can  be  inflicted  for  its  commission.  From 
this,  two  things  may  be  inferred :  First,  that  these  acts  of  labor 
were  prohibited  for  political  reasons,  because  the  mystery  was 
extant,  and  we  find  the  term  mystery  applied  to  political  cases 
only ;  and  second,  that  the  Gemara  declares  in  the  same  passage 
that  the  carrying  of  an  object  from  public  ground  into  private 
ground  is  not  one  of  the  doubtful  acts  and  a  penalty  is  prescribed 
in  the  event  of  its  being  committed.  Hence  the  object  was  to 
prevent  the  assimilation  explained  above. 

II.  We  find  in  Yebamoth,  gob :  "  R.  Eliezer  b.  Jacob  said : 
*  I  have  heard  that  a  man  was  found  riding  a  horse  on  Sabbath  in 
the  time  of  the  Greeks,  and  being  brought  before  the  tribunal  for 


xxviii         INTRODUCTION    TO    TRACT    SABBATH. 

the  crime  was  stoned  to  death.'  This  man  was  punished,  not  be- 
cause his  crime  merited  the  penalty,  but  because  the  times  made 
it  necessary."  The  inference  is  therefore  clearly  established  that 
the  man  was  punished  for  political  reasons,  and  that  the  violation 
of  the  Sabbath  laws  did  not  involve  capital  punishment. 

III.  In  Yoma,  85^,  it  is  written :  "  R.  Jonathan  b.  Joseph 
said,  *  The  Sabbath  is  holy  unto  you,'  "  implying  that  the  Sabbath 
is  handed  over  to  you  and  not  you  to  the  Sabbath.* 

IV.  R.  Johanan  states  elsewhere  that  in  Palestine,  where  the 
Jews  were  together,  no  public  ground  existed. 

Michael  L.  Rodkinson. 

Cincinnati,  March,  1896. 

*  This  is  taken  from  Mechilta,  an  authority  older  than  the  Talmud,  and  stands  in 
no  connection  with  the  Halakha.  Furthermore,  the  mystic  scrolls  may  in  some  in- 
stances have  had  reference  to  political  necessities  of  the  day,  but  by  no  means  in  all 
cases. —  The  Reviser, 


SECTION   MOED   (FESTIVALS). 

SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

VOLUME  1.— TRACT  SABBATH. 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

Several  requests  have  been  received  by  the  translator  that  an  index 
should  be  made  to  the  volumes  of  the  Talmud,  as  is  customary  virith  all 
modern  works.  It  would  be  an  utter  impossibility  to  give  a  complete  index 
of  everything  contained  in  the  Talmud.  Were  it  like  other  scientific  works, 
which  treat  each  subject  separately,  this  could  easily  be  done  ;  but  with 
the  Talmud  it  is  different.  On  one  page  many  different  subjects  may  be 
discussed,  and  again  a  single  subject  may  occupy  several  pages.  The 
Talmud,  therefore,  has  never  had  an  index,  not  even  the  portions  which 
have  been  translated. 

After  careful  examination  of  the  volumes,  page  by  page,  it  has  been  de- 
cided to  make  a  synopsis,  i.e.,  to  give  briefly  the  heads  of  the  discussions 
and  conversations  upon  each  Mishna,  indicating  the  page  where  the 
Mishna  is  to  be  found,  and  the  Gemara  of  each  one,  which  serves  as  a 
commentary.  By  this  the  reader  should  be  able  to  refer  to  what  he  desires 
to  know. 

A  synopsis  is  therefore  given  of  every  Mishna  which  discusses  a  single 
subject,  with  its  accompanying  Gemara  ;  but  when  several  short  Mishnas 
cover  the  same  subject,  a  single  synopsis  is  given  of  the  whole,  including 
the  Gemara  of  each  one ;  and  where  a  chapter  is  short  and  has  but  one 
subject,  a  synopsis  of  the  whole  chapter  is  made,  without  dividing  it  into 
Mishnas. 

This  is  the  best  that  can  be  done,  and  it  is  hoped  that  readers  wiU  find 
it  satisfactory. 

CHAPTER  I. 

Mishna  /.  Regulations  concerning  prohibited  and  permitted  acts  of 
transfer  over  the  dividing  line  of  adjoining  premises  and  the  area  of  such 
premises  ;  the  classification  of  premises  ;  in  which  premises  transfer  is  per- 
mitted ;  laws  of  transfer  of  labor,  when  committed  by  the  joint  efforts  of  two 
persons  ;  transfer  from  and  to  doorsteps, 1-13 

Mishna  //.  Whether  work  may  be  commenced  at  the  approach  of  the 
time  for  afternoon  prayer ;  what  kind  of  work  is  referred  to  ;  how  a  man 
should  pray  ;  what  he  must  wear  ;  when  he  may  eat  his  midday  meal ;  the 

xxix 


XXX  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

informing  of  the  bestowal  of  gifts  ;  Sabbath  as  a  valuable  gift  of  God 
and  its  origin  ;  various  legends  of  Rabha  bar  Ma'hassia  in  the  name  of 
Rabh, 13-19 

MiSHNA  ///.  Tailors  and  other  artisans  are  not  permitted  to  go  out 
with  their  tools  on  Friday  near  eventide.  Treats  also  on  whether  one  may 
read  by  lamplight  on  the  Sabbath  ;  the  laws  of  visiting  the  sick  ;  what 
prayers  may  be  offered  for  the  sick, 19-22 

MiSHNAS  IV.  TO  VI.  How  the  eighteen  famous  ordinances  were  in- 
stituted in  the  attic  of  Hananya  ben  Hyzkiyah  ben  Gorion,  and  by  whom  the 
Roll  of  Fasts  was  written.  Which  acts  of  labor  may  be  commenced  on 
Friday  eve  ;  concerning  labor  which  is  accomplished  without  assistance  of 
man  on  Sabbath  ;  laws  concerning  labor  which  is  accomplished  without 
assistance  of  man  on  Sabbath  ;  laws  concerning  work  given  to  Gentiles. 
Narrative  of  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  concerning  how  his  father's  house 
dealt  with  Gentile  clothes-washers.  On  transmission  of  letters  and  journey- 
ing on  ships  on  the  Sabbath.  Regulations  pertaining  to  the  roasting  of 
meats  and  baking  of  bread  before  the  Sabbath  ;  the  sacrifices  at  the  Temple 
on  the  Passover.     Appendix  to  p.  8, 22-30 

CHAPTER    II. 

MiSHNAS  /.  AND  //.  Permissible  and  non-permissible  oils  and  wicks  for 
lamps  on  the  Sabbath  and  'Hanukah  (feast  of  Maccabbees) ;  the  law  of  the 
'Hanukah  lights  ;  'Hanukah  and  the  miracle  ;  the  duration  of  'Hanukah  ; 
benedictions  to  be  said  on  that  festival ;  the  reward  of  those  who  keep  the 
Sabbath-light  commandment ;  the  reward  of  those  who  esteem  scholarship. 
The  second  Mishna  treats  on  :  What  balsams  may  and  may  not  be  used 
both  for  light  and  for  the  person  on  the  Sabbath  ;  a  narrative  of  a  woman 
who  hated  her  daughter-in-law  ;  who  may  be  called  a  rich  man,   .         31-42 

MiSHNAS  ///.  TO  V.  What  wicks  made  from  parts  of  trees  may  be 
used  ;  whether  broken  vessels  may  be  used  for  fuel  on  a  biblical  feast  day ; 
what  may  be  done  with  the  residue  of  oil  left  in  a  lamp ;  practical  laws  of 
egg-shells  and  whether  chairs  may  be  dragged  on  the  floor  on  Sabbath. 
The  different  opinions  of  R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Aqiba  concerning  the  defile- 
ment of  a  piece  of  cloth,  and  if  it  is  allowed  to  make  a  wick  of  it.  What 
happened  with  R.  Jehudah  in  the  Hall  of  Beth  Nitza  and  with  Abhin  of 
Ziphoris,  who  committed  certain  acts  which  were  not  allowed,  in  the 
presence  of  the  sages 42-48 

MiSHNA  VI.  Whether  a  light  may  be  extinguished  on  Sabbath  either  for 
fear  of  accident  or  to  afford  rest  for  the  sick  ;  the  question  asked  R.  Tan'hum 
of  Nav  and  his  replying  sermon  ;  the  soul  being  called  the  "  Light  of  God  "  ; 
the  intended  concealment  of  the  Book  of  Proverbs  and  Ecclesiastes  ;  the 
Shekhina  (divine  presence)  not  resting  with  a  man  except  through  his  joy  of 
having  performed  a  good  deed  ;  Rabha's  custom  when  commencing  his  lec- 
tures to  his  disciples.  R.  Gamaliel's  sermon  and  answers  to  the  disciple  who 
derided  him.  The  story  of  the  three  proselytes  rejected  by  Shamai  and 
accepted  by  Hillel.  "  What  is  hateful  to  thee,  do  not  unto  thy  neighbor ; 
that  is  the  law.  All  else  is  but  a  commentary."  The  six  sections  of  the 
Mishna  are  inferred  from  a  biblical  passage.    The  first  thing  asked  of  a  man 


SYNOPSIS   OF    SUBJECTS.  xxxi 

when  standing- before  the  divine  judgment  is,  "Hast  thou  traded  in  good 
faith  ?"  The  "  Fear  of  the  Lord  "  is  the  chief  principle.  The  wicked  fear 
death,  although  mentioning  it  every  day,  .....  48-53 
MiSHNAS  VII.  AND  VIII.  The  sins  of  women  are  passed  upon  when 
confined  in  childbirth,  the  sins  of  men  while  in  danger.  A  good  deed  is 
committed  through  the  agency  of  a  meritorious  person  and  a  bad  deed 
through  the  agency  of  the  wicked  ;  all  who  are  about  to  die  must  repent  of 
their  sins  ;  the  defenders  of  man  before  divine  judgment  are  repentance  and 
good  deeds.  A  thousandth  part  of  one  defender  saves  a  man  from  the 
clanger  threatened  him  by  a  thousand  accusers.  The  penalties  imposed 
upon  man  for  hating  without  cause  ;  for  robbery  ;  for  perverting  or  pro- 
crastinating justice  ;  for  destroying  the  law  ;  for  murder  ;  for  adultery  ;  for 
idolatry;  for  using  obscene  language.  The  story  of  R.  Simeon  ben  Johai, 
who  remained  in  a  cave  for  twelve  years.  The  causes  leading  up  to  his 
concealment  in  the  cave  ;  his  adventures  after  leaving  the  cave.  The  three 
things  to  be  said  by  a  man  in  his  house  on  Friday  eve  ;  how  they  are  to  be 
said  ;  when  twilight  takes  place  ;  how  many  signals  of  the  horn  were  blown 
to  remind  the  people  of  the  advent  of  the  Sabbath.  Is  there  a  difference 
between  a  shophar  and  a  fife  ?, 53-62 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  /  AND  //.  In  which  hearths  or  ovens  victuals  may  be  depos- 
ited on  the  Sabbath.  The  opinions  of  the  school  of  Hilkl  and  the  school  of 
Shamai  concerning  the  same  ;  the  different  opinions  upon  the  teaching  of 
the  two  schools.  Victuals  having  once  been  taken  out  of  an  oven,  would  it 
be  allowed  to  replace  them  ?  The  law  concerning  a  pot  of  victuals  which 
had  been  forgotten  and  was  thus  cooked  on  the  Sabbath.  Usages  of  R.  Jose 
on  his  way  to  Zipporah,  and  of  R.  Jchudah  Hanassi  when  travelling.  A 
narrative  of  R.  Ishai  while  in  the  presence  of  R.  Hyya  the  Great.  The  differ- 
ence in  law  between  an  oven  and  a  hearth ;  also,  difference  arising  from 
an  oven  or  a  hearth  being  heated  with  straw  or  with  wood,  etc.,    .        63-67 

MiSHNAS  ///.  TO  VII.  Customs  of  the  people  of  Tiberias  relative  to  the 
heating  of  a  pitcher  of  cold  water.  Is  it  allowed  to  place  a  pitcher  of  cold 
water  into  one  filled  with  hot  water  in  order  to  heat  the  water  ;  or,  vice 
versa,  in  order  to  heat  the  water  ?  May  one  wash  his  body  in  the  warm 
water  of  the  Tiberius  springs  or  in  water  warmed  on  the  Sabbath  eve  ? 
May  the  entire  body  be  washed  at  once  or  each  member  separately  ?  Cus- 
toms in  a  bath-house.  Are  sweat-baths  permitted  on  the  Sabbath  ? 
Incidents  occurring  in  the  bath-house  of  the  city  of  B'ni  Brak.  Why 
sweat-baths  were  prohibited.  May  one  warm  himself  by  a  hearth-fire  ? 
Is  bathing  one's  self  in  a  washtub  and  anointing  one's  self  with  oils  per- 
mitted on  the  Sabbath  ?  Usages  of  Rabbi  Jehudah  Hanassi  in  this  matter. 
Is  swimming  in  a  lake  permitted  on  the  Sabbath  ?  Incidents  attending  R. 
Zera's  witnessing  R.  Abuhu's  swimming  in  a  lake  on  a  Sabbath.  Concerning 
the  permissibility  of  pouring  cold  water  in  a  muliar  or  antikhi,  the  fuel  of 
which  had  been  removed  ;  or  in  a  kettle,  the  hot  water  of  which  had  been 
poured  out,  and  the  prescribed  quantity  of  such  water.  Concerning  the 
addition  of  sptc;es  to  a  pot  of  victuals.  Concerning  the  permissibility  of 
olacin^  a  vessel  under  a  burning  lamp  to  receive  its  dripping  oil  or  falling 


xxxii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

sparks,  and  the  placing  of  a  vessel  under  a  hen  to  receive  the  egg.  Ordi- 
nance relating  to  a  corpse  lying  in  the  sun.  If  it  is  allowed  to  save  a 
corpse  from  fire.  Prayers  to  be  offered  on  Sabbath  over  the  dead.  The 
accordance   of    permission   to   save   a   corpse   from   conflagration    on    the 

Sabbath,  67-74 

MiSHNAS  VIII.  AND  IX.  Concerning  the  handling  of  new  and  old  lamps 
on  the  Sabbath.  Ordinances  relative  to  a  bed  which  had  been  designated  for 
the  purpose  of  holding  money  on  the  Sabbath.  The  permissibility  of  handling 
a  burning  'Hanukah  lamp  for  fear  of  the  Persians.  The  law  of  Muktza, 
The  ordinance  relative  to  handling  a  lamp  on  Sabbath  and  the  dictum  ot 
Resh  Lakish  in  Zidon.  The  ordinance  concerning  the  nuptial  couch.  Action 
of  R.  Malkia  while  the  guest  of  R.  Simlai  and  R.  Abuhu  at  the  house  of 
R.  Joshua  ben  Levi  and  R.  Johanan.  The  experience  of  R.  Avia,  who  came 
to  the  house  of  Rabha  and  sat  on  Rabha's  bed  without  removing  his  dirty 
shoes.  Questions  put  to  him  by  Rabha,  and  his  replies.  The  law  of  a  prin- 
cipal prohibited  act.  What  R.  Hanina  did  with  a  folding-bed  that  had 
become  unfastened  on  a  feast  day,  74-82 

CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  IV.  What  substances  may  be  used  for  the  preserving  of 
victuals.  Rabba's  and  R.  Zera's  upbraiding  of  a  slave  of  the  Exilarch,  while 
sojourning  in  the  latter's  house.  Concerning  the  replacing  of  feathers  in  a 
pillow.  Concerning  the  opening  of  a  bunghead  in  a  barrel  and  the  making 
of  a  neckband  in  a  shirt.  Concerning  the  permissibility  of  depositing  vict- 
uals in  cloth  and  shorn  wool  intended  for  market.  The  derivation  of  the 
thirty-nine  principal  acts  of  labor  on  the  Sabbath  from  the  thirty-nine  times 
"work"  is  mentioned  in  the  Pentateuch.  The  law  concerning  branches  of 
trees  which  were  bound  together  to  be  used  for  fuel  and  were  subsequently 
intended  for  sitting  upon.  R.  Hanina  ben  Aqiba's  action  in  such  a  case. 
The  ordinance  relating  to  the  use  of  soap-powder  and  soap  on  the  Sabbath. 
The  necessity  of  washing  one's  hands  and  feet  for  the  sake  of  the  Creator. 
What  is  to  be  done  with  a  pot  that  had  not  been  covered  on  the  eve  of 
Sabbath  ?  The  decision  of  Ishmael  in  the  matter  in  the  presence  of  Rabbi. 
The  mutual  respect  of  the  sages  for  one  another.  R.  Na'hman's  statement 
to  Doen  his  servant, 83-90 

CHAPTER  V. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  What  gear  animals  may  go  out  in  on  the  Sabbath. 
Levi  the  son  of  R.  Huna  bar  Hyya  and  Rabbi  the  son  of  R.  Huna,  occur- 
rence on  the  road.  A  bridle  may  be  worn  by  an  ass  whose  behavior  is  bad. 
A  bridle  is  allowed  as  a  guard  but  not  as  an  ornament.  An  ass  may  go  out 
with  a  rug,  but  what  is  the  law  concerning  a  saddle  ?  Ordinances  relative 
to  a  feed-bag.  The  decision  of  Arioch  of  Babylon  (Samuel)  in  the  matter. 
Concerning  bags  tied  around  the  udders  of  she-goats.  The  miracle  that  was 
wrought  for  a  man  whose  wife  died  and  left  him  a  nursing  child.  The  discus- 
sion of  the  rabbis  about  such  a  miracle.  Narrative  relating  to  a  man  whose 
wife  was  maimed.  Concerning  gear  which  may  not  be  worn  by  animals 
on  Sabbath.     Peculiarities  of  the  Hanun  tree  and  where  it  may  be  found, 


SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS.  xxxiii 

The  wealth  of  R.  Eliezer  ben  Azariah.  Penalty  for  the  failure  to  warn  one's 
family  against  evil.  The  different  signs  on  the  foreheads  of  the  righteous 
and  the  wicked.  The  seal  of  God.  Derivation  of  the  merits  of  the  fathers. 
Is  death  possible  without  sin  ?  Defence  for  Reuben  and  others  who  are  men- 
tioned in  the  Bible  as  sinners.  Rabbi  Hanassi's  justification  for  David. 
Was  David  guilty  of  listening  to  slander?  Consequences  of  David's  sin. 
King  Solomon's  sin.  The  Archangel  Gabriel's  act  at  the  time  of  King 
Solomon's  marriage  with  Pharaoh's  daughter.     The  most  fervent  penitents, 

91-106 

CHAPTER   VI. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  What  garments  a  woman  may  go  out  in.  Definition 
of  totaphoth.  Concerning  the  garb  of  slaves.  May  the  rabbis  wear  their 
insignia  of  office  on  Sabbath?  Effect  of  a  sermon  on  the  women  of  the  city 
of  Mehuza  concerning  ornaments  in  the  shape  of  a  crown.  Ordinances  con- 
cerning nose-bands,  earrings,  and  finger-rings.  What  garments  a  man 
must  not  go  out  in.  Consequences  of  wearing  iron-bound  sandals.  The 
law  of  majority.  How  shoes  are  to  be  put  on.  Why  one  when  anointing 
himself  should  first  anoint  the  head.  Law  concerning  amulets,  both  tried 
and  untried.  Ordinances  concerning  hairpins  and  perfume-bottles.  Causes 
of  poverty.     The  trees  of  Jerusalem, 107-117 

MiSHNAS  IV.  TO  LY.  Concerning  bows,  swords,  and  shields.  Are  they 
considered  ornaments  or  is  the  wearing  of  such  things  degrading?  Inter- 
pretation of  biblical  passages.  Are  they  to  be  taken  literally  or  figuratively. 
Rewards  emanating  from  the  proper  study  of  the  Law.  Customs  of  scholars 
when  discussing  the  Law.  God's  blessing  upon  scholars  who  mutually  in- 
struct one  another.  Regarding  a  man  who  keeps  a  vicious  dog  about  his 
premises.  Why  the  children  of  Israel  were  in  need  of  forgiveness  upon 
their  return  from  the  war  with  the  Midianites.  What  garments  women, 
young  girls,  and  boys  may  go  out  in  on  Sabbath.  References  to  cripples 
and  to  children  of  princes.  Concerning  the  danger  of  imitating  the  customs 
of  the  Amorites.     Occurrence  at  the  feast  given  by  R.  Aqiba,   .         1 17-126 

CHAPTER   Vn. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  The  principal  rule  concerning  the  Sabbath.  Regu- 
lations regarding  children  in  captivity  among  idolaters  and  converts.  Re- 
maining with  idolaters.  Rules  concerning  one  who  was  ignorant  as  to  what 
labor  was  prohibited  on  the  Sabbath  but  was  conscious  of  the  Sabbath,  and 
vt'cg  versa.  Concerning  a  man  who,  while  travelling  in  a  desert,  had  for- 
gotten which  day  was  Sabbath.  How  labor  may  be  distinguished.  Different 
instances  of  forgetfulness  regarding  Sabbath  and  the  performance  of  labor 
on  the  Sabbath.  Instances  of  forgetfulness  in  dietary  matters.  Instances 
of  intentional  and  unintentional  performance  of  labor,  and  their  distinction. 
Enumeration  of  the  forty,  less  one,  acts  of  labor.  Principal  and  incidental 
acts.  The  degree  of  guilt  involved  in  learning  magic  art^  Condemnation 
of  one  who  is  able  to  acquire  astronomical  knowledge  and  neglects  to  do  so. 
Another  rule  was  laid  down.  Discussions  concerning  the  carrying  out  of 
necessary  things  on  the  Sabbath  and  the  limitation  of  quantity.  Different 
kiads  of  food  may  be  counted  together,        .        .         ,        .        »         127-142 


xxxiv  SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS. 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  y.  The  prescribed  quantities  of  wine,  honey,  and  milk 
that  may  be  carried  out  on  Sabbath.  The  strength  of  different  wines.  In- 
stances of  stronger  creatures  fearing  weaker  ones.  Why  goats  precede 
sheep  in  a  flock.  Why  are  she-goats  not  covered  with  a  tail  like  sheep? 
Why  has  a  camel  a  short  tail?  Why  has  an  ox  a  long  tail?  Why  are  the 
feelers  of  a  locust  soft?  What  is  the  reason  that  the  lower  eyelids  of  a  hen 
turn  up?  Three  creatures  grow  stronger,  etc.  The  quantity  of  rope,  paper 
from  which  writing  has  been  erased,  skins,  parchment,  bones,  loam,  etc., 
which  may  be  carried  out  on  the  Sabbath.  Honor  of  man  supersedes  a 
biblical  commandment.  What  is  magic?  The  explanation  of  the  verse 
Isaiah,  xxxv.  14, 143-153 

CHAPTER   IX. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  VII.  Sayings  and  deductions  of  R.  Aqiba.  The  day  of 
the  week  and  the  month  on  which  the  Law  was  given  to  Israel.  Assump- 
tion of  authority  by  Moses  and  God's  acquiescence.  The  name  of  the  month 
on  which  the  Israelites  left  Egypt,  and  was  it  an  intercalary  month  ?  The 
compulsory  acceptance  of  the  law  by  the  Israelites  and  their  subsequent 
voluntary  acceptance  in  the  days  of  Xerxes  of  Persia.  Israel's  readiness  to 
obey  even  before  hearing.  The  publication  of  every  word  spoken  by  God 
in  seventy  languages.  Comparison  of  the  sayings  of  the  Torah  with  a 
nobleman.  The  understanding  of  the  Law  is  healthful,  its  misinterpretation 
is  poisonous.  Every  word  leaving  the  mouth  of  the  Lord  filled  the  world 
with  aromatic  odors.  Complaints  of  the  angels  upon  the  ascension  of  Moses 
to  heaven.  Moses'  answer.  Satan's  search  for  the  Torah.  Concerning  the 
bearing  of  a  slave  toward  his  master.  Rabha's  lecture  upon  the  patriarchs 
and  their  answers  to  the  complaints  of  God  concerning  the  children  of  Israel. 
Isaac's  defence  of  the  children  of  Israel  upon  the  Lord's  telling  him  that 
they  had  sinned.  The  quantity  of  spices,  dyes,  metals,  pedler's  boxes,  and 
seeds  which  may  be  carried  out  on  the  Sabbath,  .        .        .        154-170 

CHAPTER   X. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  VIII.  Rules  pertaining  to  one  who  carries  out  things 
valuable  to  him.  The  quantities  in  which  they  may  be  carried  out.  The 
quantities  in  which  they  may  be  carried  out  by  one  to  whom  they  are  not 
valuable.  Concerning  eatables  which  are  carried  out  of  the  house  and  left 
on  the  doorstep,  and  things  that  are  carried  in  the  left  hand,  on  the  shoulder, 
on  the  head,  or  in  the  bosom.  Concerning  one  who,  while  intending  to  carry 
a  thing  in  front,  accidentally  carries  it  on  his  back,  or  vice  versa.  Concern- 
ing the  case  of  two  men  carrying  out  a  burden  which  one  alone  was  not 
capable  of  carrying.  The  law  in  that  case.  Concerning  the  case  of  one 
who  carries  out  eatables  in  quantities  less  than  the  limit  in  a  vessel.  Is  he 
culpable  for  carrying  the  vessel  or  not  ?  Concerning  the  permissibility  of 
paring  the  finger-nails  of  one  hand  by  means  of  those  of  the  other  hand  on 
the  Sabbath.  The  case  of  one  tearing  off  flowers  from  a  plant  in  an  unper- 
Corated  flower-pot,         ....,,.,.         171  -182 


TRACT  SABBATH. 


CHAPTER   I. 

REGULATIONS   REGARDING    TRANSFER   ON    SABBATH. 

MISHNAI. :  There  are  two  acts  constituting  transfer*  of 
movable  things  (over  the  dividing  line  of  adjoining  premises, 
based  on  biblical  statutes).  The  two  acts  are,  however,  in- 
creased to  four  on  the  inside  and  to  a  like  amount  on  the  out- 
side of  the  premises  (by  the  addition  of  rabbinical  statutes). 
How  so  ?  A  mendicant  stands  outside  and  the  master  of  a 
house  inside.  The  mendicant  passes  his  hand  into  the  house 
(through  a  window  or  door)  and  puts  something  into  the  hand 
of  the  master,  or  he  takes  something  out  of  the  master's  hand 
and  draws  it  back  (toward  him).  In  such  a  case  the  mendicant 
is  guilty  (of  transfer)  and  the  master  of  the  house  is  free.  If 
the  master  of  the  house  passes  his  hand  outside  and  puts  a 
thing  into  the  hand  of  the  mendicant,  or  takes  something  out  of 
the  mendicant's  hand  and  brings  it  into  the  house,  the  master 
of  the  house  is  culpable  and  the  mendicant  is  free.f  If  the 
mendicant  extends  his  hand  into  the  house  and  the  master  takes 
something  out  of  it,  or  puts  something  into  it  which  is  drawn 
to  the  outside  by  the  mendicant,  they  are  both  free.  If  the 
master  of  the  house  extends  his  hand  outside  and  the  mendi- 
cant takes  something  out  of  it,  or  puts  something  into  it  which 
is  drawn  to  the  inside  by  the  master,  they  are  both  free. 

GEMARA:  We  were  taught  (Shebuoth,  IV.  2):  "  The  acts 

*  See  Jer.  xvii.  21,  28,  and  Neh.  xiii.  19.  This  Mishna  treats  of  the  prohibition, 
so  strongly  inculcated  by  the  prophets,  of  transferring  things  over  the  line  of  division 
between  various  grounds  or  premises. 

f  The  difference  between  the  violation  of  the  biblical  statutes  and  that  of  the 
rabbinical  statutes  is  marked  by  the  prescription  of  the  penalties  of  sin-offerings, 
shortening  of  life  and  capital  punishment  for  the  first-named  violation,  while  no  penal- 
ties are  attached  to  a  violation  of  the  last-named  statutes.     (See  Introduction.) 

VOL.   I.  — I  I 


2  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

of  transfer  on  the  Sabbath  are  two,  respectively  four."  Why 
is  this  teaching  here  specified  as  two  respectively  four  on  the 
inside,  and  two  respectively  four  on  the  outside,  and  there  no 
such  specification  was  made?  Said  R.  Papa:  Here  the  special 
subject  of  treatment  is  the  Sabbath,  and  the  Mishna  enumer- 
ated the  cases  which  involve  guilt  and  those  which  do  not  in- 
volve guilt;  while  there  the  principal  subject  of  treatment  is 
a  different  one,  and  he  mentions  only  the  cases  that  involve 
guilt,  leaving  the  cases  that  do  not  involve  guilt  untouched. 
But  the  cases  that  involve  guilt  are  those  by  which  acts  of  trans- 
fer are  committed,  and  such  are  only  two  ?  Nay,  there  are  two 
acts  of  transfer  from  within  and  two  from  without.  But  the 
Mishna  says,  "  Yetziath  "  (which  in  a  literal  sense  means  trans- 
fer from  within)  ?  Said  R.  Ashi :  The  Tana  calls  transfer  from 
without  by  the  same  term.  And  for  what  reason  ?  Because 
every  act  of  removing  a  thing  from  its  place  is  called  Yetziah. 
Said  Rabbina:  The  Mishna  also  bears  out  this  sense;  for  it 
speaks  of  Yetziath  and  immediately  illustrates  its  remark  by 
citing  a  case  from  without.  This  bears  it  out.  Rabha,  how- 
ever, says:  He  (the  Tana)  speaks  about  divided  premises  (whose 
line  of  division  is  crossed),  and  in  this  case  there  are  only  two 
(in  each  of  which  there  may  be  four  acts  of  transfer). 

Said  R.  Mathna  to  Abayi :  Are  there  not  eight,  even  twelve 
(instances  of  transfer  over  the  line  of  division)  ?*  And  he  re- 
joined :  Such  transfers  as  involve  the  obligation  of  a  sin-offering 
are  counted ;  but  those  that  do  not  involve  such  an  obligation 
are  not  counted. 

"  They  are  both  free.*'  Was  not  the  act  (of  transfer)  com- 
mitted by  both  ?  Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Gamda :  The  act  of  remov- 
ing the  thing  was  committed  by  the  joint  efforts  of  both,  and 
they  (the  rabbis)  said:  "It  is  written  in  the  law,  when  a  person 
did  it  "  t — i.e.,  when  one  person  commits  the  act  he  is  culpable; 
but  when  an  act  is  committed  by  the  joint  efforts  of  two  per- 
sons, they  are  both  free. 

Rabh  questioned  Rabbi :  If  one  were  laden  by  his  friend 
with  eatables  and  beverages  and  carried  them  outside  (of  the 
house),  how  is  the  law  ?  Is  the  removing  of  his  body  tanta- 
mount to  the  removing  of  a  thing  from  its  place,  and  therefore 
he  is  culpable,  or  is  it  not  so  ? 

*  Rashi  explains  at  length  how  eight  or  even  twelve  instances  of  transfer  could 
occur,  but,  not  being  essential  to  the  subject,  we  Oinit  the  explanation. 
\  Lev.  iv.  27. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  3 

Said  Rabbi  to  him :  He  is  culpable.  And  this  case  is  not 
like  the  case  of  removing  his  hand.  Why  so  ?  Because  (in  the 
latter  case)  the  hand  was  not  at  rest,  while  (in  the  former)  the 
body  (before  and  after  removal)  was  entirely  at  rest.* 

Said  Rabbi  Hyya  to  Rabh :  Descendant  of  nobles !  Did  I 
not  tell  thee  that  when  Rabbi  is  engaged  with  a  certain  tract 
ask  him  not  about  a  subject  (that  is  treated)  in  another  tract, 
for  he  may  not  have  that  subject  in  his  mind !  And  if  Rabbi 
were  not  a  great  man  thou  mightest  cause  him  shame,  for  he 
would  give  thee  an  answer  which  might  not  be  right.  In  this 
instance,  however,  he  gave  thee  a  correct  answer;  as  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  If  one  was  laden  with  eat- 
ables and  beverages  while  it  was  yet  light  on  the  eve  of  Sab- 
bath, and  he  carried  them  outside  after  dark,  he  is  culpable ;  for 
his  case  is  not  like  that  of  removing  the  hand  mentioned  above. 

Abayi  said :  From  all  that  was  said  above  it  is  certain  to  me 
that  the  hand  of  a  man  (standing  on  the  street)  is  not  treated  as 
public  ground. f  And  I  also  see  that  (if  a  man  stands  on  private 
ground)  his  hand  is  not  to  be  treated  as  private  ground.  Would 
it  be  correct,  then,  to  regard  the  hand  as  unclaimed  ground  ?  If 
so,  would  the  penalty  imposed  by  the  rabbis  in  such  a  case, 
namely,  that  one  should  not  move  his  hand  (containing  a  mov- 
able thing)  back  (during  the  Sabbath  day),  apply  in  this  case  or 
not  ? 

Come  and  hear  the  following  Boraitha:  If  a  man  has  his 
hand  filled  with  fruit  and  he  extends  it  outside  (of  the  premises 
where  he  stands),  one  said  he  is  not  permitted  to  draw  it  back, 
and  another  Boraitha  says  he  is  allowed  to  do  so.  May  we  not 
assume  that  this  is  their  point  of  dispute :  the  former  holds  that 
the  hand  is  treated  as  unclaimed  ground,  and  the  latter  thinks 
that  it  is  not  like  unclaimed  ground?  Nay,  it  may  be  that  both 
agree  that  the  hand  (as  spoken  of  in  our  Mishna)  is  like  un- 
claimed ground,  and  yet  it  presents  no  difificulty.  One  of  the 
Boraithas  treats  of  a  man  who  had  extended  his  hand  uninten- 
tionally, and  the  other  one  treats  of  a  man  who  had  put  forth 
his  hand  intentionally.     In  the  former  case  the  rabbis  did  not 

*  Students  of  the  Talmud  will  remember  that  while  in  the  act  of  walking  a  man 
cannot  be  guilty  of  the  transgression  of  carrying  movable  property.  The  body  must 
be  at  rest.  The  removal  of  a  thing  by  means  of  the  hand  implies  a  disturbance  in 
the  rest  of  the  body. 

f  As  illustrated  in  our  Mishna  ;  for  if  he  did  not  deposit  the  thing  that  he  had 
passed  from  the  street  into  the  house,  he  was  not  culpable. 


4  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

fine  him,  and  in  the  latter  case  they  did.  And  if  you  wish,  it  may 
be  said  that  they  both  speak  of  a  case  when  the  act  was  done 
unintentionally,  and  their  point  of  differing  is  as  to  the  varying 
premises,  whether  the  hand  may  be  drawn  back  to  the  ground 
where  the  man  stands,  or  to  other  (private)  ground  that  adjoins 
it  ?  As  Rabha  questioned  R.  Na'hman:  If  the  hand  of  a  man 
was  filled  with  fruit,  and  he  extended  it  outside,  may  he  draw 
it  back  to  the  same  ground  where  he  stands  ?  And  he  answered  : 
He  may.  (And  may  he  remove  his  hand)  to  other  (private) 
ground  ?  Nay.  And  to  the  question,  "  What  is  the  distinc- 
tion ?"  he  said:  If  thou  wilt  measure  a  whole  kur  of  salt  and 
present  me  with  it,  I  shall  tell  thee  the  answer.  (See  footnote, 
Erubin,  p.  79.)  In  the  former  case  his  design  was  not  accom- 
plished ;  in  the  latter,  however,  his  design  was  accomplished  (and 
it  is  prohibited  for  fear  that  it  should  be  repeated). 

R.  Bibi  bar  Abayi  questioned :  If  one  has  put  bread  into  the 
oven,  is  he  allowed  to  take  it  out  before  (it  is  baked  and)  he 
becomes  liable  to  bring  a  sin-offering,  or  not  ? 

Said  R.  A'ha  bar  Abayi  to  Rabhina :  What  does  the  ques- 
tioner mean  ?  Unintentionally  and  without  remembering  (that 
it  is  Sabbath),  then  what  does  the  expression  "  allowed  "  mean  ? 
To  whom  ?  He  is  still  not  aware  of  it.  On  the  other  hand,  if 
he  did  it  unintentionally  and  afterward  he  remembered  of  the 
Sabbath,  how  can  he  be  liable  to  a  sin-offering;  did  not  a  Mishna 
state  that  the  liability  to  bring  such  a  sacrifice  applies  onl}'  when 
the  failing  was  begun  and  accomplished  unintentionally  ?  Should 
it  be  understood  that  the  act  was  done  intentionally,  then  it 
would  not  involve  the  liability  of  a  sin-offering,  but  it  would 
constitute  a  crime  that  involved  capital  punishment.* 

Said  R.  Ashi :  Say,  then,  it  is  a  crime  that  involves  capital 
punishment.  R.  A'ha,  the  son  of  Rabha,  taught  so  plainly. 
R.  Bibi  bar  Abayi  said:  If  one  put  bread  into  the  oven,  he  is 
allowed  to  take  it  out  before  it  may  involve  a  case  of  capital 
punishment. 

"  The  mendicant  extended  his  hand,^'  etc.  Why  is  he  culpa- 
ble ?  (To  complete  the  act)  there  must  be  a  transfer  from  a 
place  that  is  four  ells  square  and  a  depositing  into  a  place  of  the 
same  area,  and  such  was  not  the  case  here.     Said  Rabba :  Our 

*  All  the  labors  that  were  performed  at  the  construction  of  the  tabernacle  in  the 
desert,  as  is  taught  in  a  Mishna  farther  on,  if  done  on  the  Sabbath  intentionally,  in- 
volved capital  punishment.  The  intention  becomes  apparent  when  there  are  wit- 
nesses to  warn  the  perpetrator  of  his  wrong  and  he  does  not  heed  them. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  5 

Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Aqiba's  opinion,  who  holds 
that  as  soon  as  the  air  of  a  place  surrounds  a  thing  it  is  equal  to 
the  thing  being  deposited  in  that  place.  But  may  it  not  be  that 
depositing  does  not  require  four  ells,  for  the  reason  stated  above, 
but  removing  does  ?  Said  R.  Joseph :  The  teaching  of  this 
paragraph  agrees  (not  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Aqiba),  but  with 
that  of  Rabbi,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha : 

If  one  threw  an  object  from  one  street  into  the  other,  and 
there  was  a  private  ground  between  them,  Rabbi  declared  him 
culpable,  and  the  sages  freed  him.  Hereupon  R.  Jehudah  in 
the  name  of  Samuel  said :  Rabbi  declared  the  man  guilty  of  two 
offences :  one  for  having  removed  the  thing  from  its  place,  and 
one  for  having  deposited  it  in  another  place.  Hence  in  both, 
the  four  ells  in  question  are  not  required. 

But  with  reference  to  this  it  was  taught  that  both  Rabh  and 
Samuel  said  that  Rabbi's  declaration  of  culpability  treated  of 
a  case  where  the  private  ground  (that  divided  the  two  streets) 
was  roofed,  for  the  assumption  is  that  a  house  must  be  regarded 
as  a  solid  object  that  fills  out  all  the  space  it  occupies,  but  not 
when  it  was  unroofed  ? 

Therefore  said  Rabha:  (All  these  views  can  be  dispensed 
with,  as)  the  hand  of  a  man  (because  of  its  value)  is  consid- 
ered as  a  piece  of  ground  four  ells  square.  And  so,  also,  was 
declared  by  Rabin,  when  he  came  from  Palestine,  in  the  name 
of  R.  Johanan. 

R.  Abhin  in  the  name  of  R.  Ila'a,  quoting  R.  Johanan,  said: 
If  one  threw  a  thing  and  it  rested  in  the  hands  of  another  man, 
he  is  culpable. 

Why  the  repetition — has  not  R.  Johanan  declared  above, 
already,  that  the  hand  of  a  man  is  considered  as  a  space  of  four 
ells  square  ?  Lest  one  say  that  this  is  only  when  he  mtended  to 
put  it  into  his  hand  (and  the  intention  makes  it  valuable  as  the 
space  in  question),  but  not  otherwise.     Therefore  the  repetition. 

The  same  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority:  If 
one  remains  standing  in  his  place  when  he  receives  a  thing,  he 
is  culpable;  but  if  he  was  moving  away  from  his  place  when  he 
received  it,  he  is  free.  And  so  also  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha 
in  the  name  of  the  anonymous  teachers. 

R.  Johanan  asked  the  following  question:  If  one  threw  a 
thing  and  then  moved  from  his  place  and  caught  it,  is  he  cul- 
pable or  not  ?  How  is  this  question  to  be  understood  ?  Said 
R.  Ada  bar  Ah'bali:  The  difificulty  is  concerning  the  exercise 


6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

of  two  forces  by  one  man,  and  the  question  was  thus:  If  two 
forces  were  exercised  by  one  man  (in  committing  a  prohibited 
act),  should  both  [tarts  of  the  act  be  accounted  to  the  same,  so 
that  he  should  be  declared  culpable,  or  should  each  part  of  the 
act  be  considered  separately,  as  if  there  were  two  individuals 
concerned,  and  then  he  is  free  ?     This  question  is  not  decided. 

R.  Abhin.  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said:  If  one  put  his 
hand  into  the  yard  of  his  neighbor,  got  it  full  of  rain  water,  and 
withdrew  it,  he  is  guilty.  But  to  make  one  guilty  of  the  act,  it 
must  consist  of  removing  a  thing  from  a  place  of  four  ells  square, 
which  is  not  the  case  here.  Said  R.  Hyya  b.  R.  Huna:  It 
means  that  he  took  the  water  as  it  was  running  down  a  slanting 
wall,  as  Rabba  taught  elsewhere  that  removing  a  thing  from  a 
slanting  wall  made  the  man  culpable.  But  (in  speaking  of  re- 
moving an  object  from  a  slanting  wall)  Rabba  treated  on  the 
question  of  removing  a  book,  which  is  a  stationary  thing.  Is  it 
analogous  to  removing  water  that  can  never  become  stationary  ? 

Therefore  said  Rabha:  Our  case  treats  when  he  dipped  the 
water  out  of  a  cavity  (in  the  wall)  in  question.  Is  not  this  self- 
evident  ? 

Lest  one  say  that  water  standing  upon  water  is  not  consid- 
ered stationary,  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is.  And  this  is  in 
accordance  with  his  theory,  as  follows:  Water  standing  upon 
water  is  considered  stationary;  a  nut,  however,  lying  upon  the 
surface  of  water  is  not  considered  so. 

The  same  said  again,  in  the  name  of  the  same  authorities: 
One  who  was  laden  with  eatables  and  beverages,  entering  and 
going  out  the  whole  day,  he  is  not  culpable  until  he  rests.  Said 
Abayi:  And  even  then  only  if  he  stops  for  the  purpose  of  rest- 
ing; but  not  when  he  stops  merely  to  adjust  his  burden  on  his 
shoulders.  Whence  is  this  deduced  ?  From  what  the  master 
said:  If  he  stopped  within  the  limit  of  four  ells  to  rest  he  is 
free,  but  if  he  stopped  to  adjust  the  load  on  his  shoulders  he  is 
culpable.  Beyond  four  ells,  if  he  stopped  to  rest  he  is  culpable, 
but  if  he  stopped  to  adjust  the  burden  on  his  shoulder  he  is  not 
culpable.  What  does  this  imply  ?  It  implies  that  one  cannot 
be  culpable  unless  his  intention  of  removing  was  before  he 
stopped. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  takes  anything  from  his  store  into 
the  market  through  the  alley-way  (where  the  benches  of  market- 
men  are  situated),  he  is  culpable;  it  makes  no  difference  whether 
he  carries,  throws,  or  pushes  it  with  his  arm.     Ben  Azai,  how- 


TRACT    SABBATH.  7 

ever,  said :  If  he  carries  it  in  or  out  he  is  not  culpable,  but  if  he 
throws  or  pushes  it  in  or  out  he  is  culpable.  The  same  we 
have  learned  in  another  Boraitha. 

The  rabbis  taught :  There  are  four  kinds  of  premises  as  re- 
gards the  Sabbath — viz. :  private  ground,  public  ground,  un- 
claimed ground,  and  ground  that  is  under  no  jurisdiction.  What 
is  private  ground  ?  A  ditch  or  hedge  that  is  ten  spans  deep  or 
high  and  four  spans  wide — such  are  absolutely  private  grounds. 
What  is  public  ground  ?  A  country  road  or  a  wide  street,  or 
lanes  open  at  both  ends — such  are  absolutely  public  grounds. 
[So  that  in  these  two  kinds  of  premises  nothing  must  be  carried 
from  one  to  the  other;  and  if  such  was  done  by  one  uninten- 
tionally, he  is  liable  to  a  sin-offering;  if,  however,  intentionally, 
then  he  is  liable  to  be  "  cut  off,"  or  to  suffer  the  extreme  pen- 
alty (at  the  hands  of  human  justice).] 

A  sea,  a  valley  of  fields,  the  front  walk  (before  a  row  of 
stores),  and  unclaimed  ground  are  neither  like  public  nor  like 
private  ground.  [Nothing  should  be  carried  about  there  to 
start  with  ;  but  if  one  has  done  it,  he  is  not  culpable.  Nor 
should  anything  be  taken  out  of  these  grounds  into  public  or 
private  ground,  or  brought  in  from  the  latter  into  these  grounds; 
but  if  one  has  done  so,  he  is  not  culpable.  In  adjoining  court- 
yards of  many  tenants  and  alleys  that  are  open  at  both  ends, 
where  the  tenants  have  made  it  communal  property,*  carrying 
things  is  allowed;  however,  it  is  not  allowed  when  such  is  not 
done.  A  man  standing  on  the  door-step  f  may  take  things 
from  or  give  things  to  the  master  of  the  house ;  so  also  may  he 
take  a  thing  from  a  mendicant  in  the  street  or  give  it  to  him ; 
but  he  must  not  take  things  from  the  master  of  the  house  and 
hand  them  over  to  the  mendicant  in  the  street,  nor  take  from 
the  latter  and  transmit  to  the  former.  Still,  if  this  was  done,  all 
the  three  men  are  not  guilty.  Anonymous  teachers,  however, 
say  that  the  door-step  serves  as  two  separate  grounds:  when 
the  door  is  open  it  belongs  to  the  inside,  and  when  the  door  is 
closed  it  belongs  to  the  outside.  But  if  the  door-step  is  ten 
spans  high  and  four  spans  wide,  it  is  considered  as  a  premises  in 
itself.] 

The  master  said:   "  Such  are  absolutely  private  grounds." 

*  The  technical  expression  is  "to  make  an  Erubh,"  i.e.,  to  mix  their  possessions 
as  if  they  were  partners,  as  explained  in  Tract  Erubin,  I.  2. 

f  A  door-step  is  regarded  as  ground  of  which  the  religious  law  takes  no  cogni- 


8  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

What  does  he  intend  to  exclude  (by  this  emphatic  declaration)  ? 
To  exclude  that  which  R.  Jehudah  taught  about  Erubhin  (p.  25). 

"  These  are  absolutely  public  grounds."  What  does  it  mean 
to  exclude  ?  To  exclude  another  instance  of  R.  Jehudah's 
teaching,  concerning  the  enclosure  of  wells.     (Ibid.,  p.  40.) 

Why  does  not  the  Boraitha  count  the  desert  also,  for  have 
we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  Public  ground  is  constituted  by 
public  roads,  wide  streets,  alleys  that  are  open  at  both  ends, 
and  the  desert  ?  Said  Abayi:  It  presents  no  difficulty.  There 
the  law  was  expounded  as  it  existed  when  Israel  dwelt  in  the 
desert;  here,  however,  the  law  is  taught  as  it  prevails  at  the 
present  time. 

The  master  said:  "  If  one  has  brought  in  or  taken  out  a 
thing  unintentionally,"  etc.  Is  not  this  self-evident  ?  He 
means  to  say  that  if  the  culprit  did  it  intentionally,  "he  is 
liable  to  be  cut  off,"  etc.  Also  this  is  self-evident  ?  He  comes 
to  teach,  because  of  the  following  statement  of  Rabh,  who 
said  :  "I  found  mysterious  scrolls  in  the  possession  of  my 
uncle,  R.  Hyya,  which  read:  Aysy  ben  Jehudah  says:  There 
are  forty  less  one  principal  acts  of  labor.  A  man,  however, 
cannot  be  guilty  of  performing  but  one.  And  to  the  question. 
How  is  this  to  be  understood?  the  answer  was:  It  should  be 
corrected  and  read :  There  is  one  of  those  acts  of  labor  for  which 
a  man  is  not  guilty.  (In  consequence,  however,  of  the  omis- 
sion just  what  particular  act  of  labor  is  excluded,  all  of  the 
thirty-nine  remained  doubtful);  and  the  Boraitha  teaches  that 
the  labor  mentioned  is  not  one  of  the  doubtful." 

Again,  the  master  said:  "  A  sea,  a  valley  of  fields,"  etc.  Is 
that  so  ?  Have  we  not  learned  (Taharoth,  VI.  7)  that  a  valley 
is,  in  summer  time,  to  be  regarded  as  private  ground  with  ref- 
erence to  the  Sabbath,  and  as  public  ground  with  reference  to 
defilement ;  in  the  rainy  season,  however,  it  is  private  ground 
in  all  respects  ?  Said  Ula:  As  a  matter  of  fact  it  is  unclaimed 
ground,  but  by  calling  it  private  ground  the  Boraitha  only  means 
to  distinguish  it  from  public  ground.  R.  Ashi,  however,  said: 
He  speaks  of  a  valley  in  which  there  are  partitions.* 

"  And  unclaimed  ground."  Are  not  all  the  above-men- 
tioned unclaimed  ground  ?     When  R.  Dimi  came  he  said  in  the 

*  According  to  Rashi,  R.  Ashi  means  to  state  that  even  when  the  capacity  of 
the  valley  was  more  than  two  saoth  and  no  dwelling  was  near,  which  is  always  con- 
sidered as  unclaimed  ground  in  regard  to  this,  nevertheless  it  is  considered  as  pri- 
vate ground,  and  whoever  carries  from  it  into  public  ground  is  guilty. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  9 

name  of  R.  Johanan:  The  mention  of  "  unclaimed  ground  "  in 
this  case  is  required  merely  to  imply  a  corner  (of  a  private  plot) 
that  adjoins  public  ground ;  for  although  at  times  (when  the 
street  is  crowded)  many  people  are  forced  into  this  corner,  it  is 
considered  as  unclaimed  ground,  as  the  public  use  of  it  is  not 
regarded  with  favor.  He  said  also  in  the  name  of  the  same 
authority:  The  space  between  the  pillars  and  the  buildings  (on 
the  side  of  the  street)  is  considered  by  the  law  as  unclaimed 
ground.  Why  so  ?  Because  although  many  walk  there,  still, 
since  one  cannot  make  his  way  in  such  space  freely  (the  row  of 
pillars  being  irregular  or  in  a  broken  line),  it  is  like  unclaimed 
ground. 

R.  Zera  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah  said:  The  benches  in 
front  of  pillars  are  regarded  as  unclaimed  ground  (even  if  they 
are  ten  spans  high  and  four  spans  wide).  The  one  who  holds 
that  the  space  between  the  pillars  is  considered  as  such,  will  so 
much  the  more  agree  that  the  benches  in  front  of  the  pillars  are 
considered  such ;  but  he  who  says  that  the  benches  are  so  con- 
sidered, may  hold  that  this  is  so  because  the  encroachment 
upon  them  is  not  regarded  with  favor.  The  ground  between  the 
pillars,  however,  which  is  usually  trodden  by  many  people,  is 
like  public  ground. 

Rabba  b.  Shila  in  the  name  of  R.  Hisda  said :  If  one  throw 
or  plaster  (an  adhesible)  thing  against  the  side  of  a  brick  that 
is  standing  up  in  the  street,  he  is  culpable;  but  if  he  throw  or 
plaster  a  thing  on  top  of  it,  he  is  not.  Abayi  and  Rabha  both 
said :  Provided  the  brick  is  three  spans  high,  so  that  people 
do  not  step  upon  it;  with  bushes  or  briars,  however,  even  if 
less  than  three  spans  high,  one  is  not  culpable.  And  Hyya 
bar  Rabh  said  :  Even  a  bush  or  briar  must  be  three  spans 
high.* 

Rabba,  of  the  school  of  R.  Shila,  said :  When  R.  Dimi  came 
from  Palestine,  he  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  No  space 
can  be  considered  unclaimed  ground  unless  it  has  an  area  of 
four  spans  square,  and  R.  Shesheth  added  that  it  holds  good  up 
to  ten  spans  square.  What  does  it  mean  ?  Shall  we  assume 
that  only  if  it  has  a  partition  of  ten  spans  it  is  unclaimed  ground  ? 
Has  not  R.  Giddell  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  bar  Joseph,  quot- 

*  Any  space  that  is  less  than  ten  spans  high  from  the  ground  is  considered  by  the 
law  as  unclaimed  ground,  and  there  things  may  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath  only  as 
above,  while  on  private  ground  things  may  be  handled  freely  within  the  whole  area 
over  which  it  extends. 


lo  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

ing  Rabh,  said :  A  house  that  is  not  ten  spans  high,  but  which 
is  raised  to  that  height  by  the  ceiling,  one  may  handle  on  the 
roof  over  its  entire  area;  inside  of  the  house,  however,  only 
within  four  ells  square  ?  Therefore  we  must  say  that  the  state- 
ment: "  It  holds  good  up  to  ten  spans,"  implies  that  the  law 
of  unclaimed  ground  is  valid  when  the  height  does  not  exceed 
ten  spans.  As  Samuel  said  to  R.  Jehudah  :  "  Ingenious  scholar ! 
treat  not  on  laws  of  the  Sabbath  exceeding  ten  spans  in  height." 
And  to  what  does  it  apply  ?  To  private  ground  it  could  not 
apply,  as  it  is  known  that  private  ground  is  so  considered  to  the 
sky;  hence  it  is  only  to  unclaimed  ground  that  above  ten  spans 
does  not  exist,  as  the  rabbis  have  invested  unclaimed  grounds 
with  the  lenient  regulations  pertaining  to  private  ground — viz. : 
If  the  place  have  an  area  of  four  spans  square,  it  is  unclaimed 
ground ;  if  it  has  a  lesser  area,  it  is  not  subservient  to  any  juris- 
diction. And  with  the  lenient  regulations  of  public  ground — 
viz. :  The  place  is  regarded  as  unclaimed  ground  only  to  the 
height  of  ten  spans;  beyond  that  it  ceases  to  be  unclaimed 
ground. 

The  text  says:  "  In  a  house  the  inside  of  which  is  not  ten 
spans  high,"  etc.  Said  Abayi :  If,  however,  one  has  cut  in  it 
an  excavation  four  ells  square,  so  as  to  complete  the  height  of 
ten  spans,  one  may  handle  things  freely  in  the  whole  house. 
Why  so  ?  Because  in  such  a  case  the  entire  space  of  the  house 
(around  the  excavation)  would  be  considered  like  holes  on  private 
ground,  and  it  has  been  taught  that  such  holes  are  regarded  the 
same  as  the  private  ground  itself.  As  to  holes  on  public  ground, 
Abayi  said :  They  are  like  public  ground.  Rabha,  however, 
says  that  they  are  not.  Said  Rabha  to  Abayi:  According  to 
your  theory,  holes  on  public  ground  are  to  be  considered  the 
same  as  the  ground  itself.  In  which  respect,  then,  does  this 
case  differ  from  what  R.  Dimi  said  above  (p.  8)  in  the  name  of 
R.  Johanan  ?  Let,  according  to  thy  opinion,  such  a  corner  be 
considered  as  a  hole  in  public  ground.  Nay,  the  use  of  the 
corner  is  not  considered  favorable  by  people,  while  no  one 
objects  to  the  use  of  a  hole  in  the  street. 

R.  Hisda  said:  If  a  person  erected  a  pole  on  private  ground 
and  threw  something  at  it,  if  that  thing  rested  on  top  of  the 
pole,  and  be  that  pole  a  hundred  ells  high,  the  person  is 
culpable,  for  private  ground  is  absolutely  unlimited  in  height. 
Shall  we  assume  that  R.  Hisda  holds  in  accordance  with 
Rabbi  of   the  following  Boraitha:  "  If  one  threw   a  thing   (in 


TRACT    SABBATH.  ii 

the  street)  and  it  rested  upon  the  smallest  cornice*  (of  a 
house),  according  to  Rabbi  he  is  culpable,  and  the  schoolmen 
say  that  he  is  not."  Said  Abayi :  In  private  ground  all  admit 
the  decision  of  R.  Hisda,  The  case,  however,  in  which  Rabbi 
and  the  sages  differ  was  a  tree  that  stands  on  private  ground 
with  its  branches  reaching  out  into  public  ground,  and  one 
threw  a  thing  which  rested  on  a  branch.  Rabbi  holds  that  the 
branch  is  part  and  parcel  of  the  root,  but  the  sages  opine  that 
we  need  not  assume  such  to  be  the  case. 

Abayi  said :  If  one  threw  a  bee-hive  which  was  ten  spans 
high,  but  not  six  spans  wide,  into  the  street,  he  is  culpable ;  if, 
however,  the  bee-hive  was  six  spans  wide,  he  is  free  (because  it 
is  considered  a  piece  of  private  ground  in  itself).  Rabha,  how- 
ever, said  he  is  not,  even  if  it  be  less  than  six  spans  wide.  Why 
so  ?  Because  it  is  impossible  for  twined  reed  not  to  exceed  the 
given  height. t  In  case  he  threw  the  bee-hive :{:  with  its  mouth 
down,  even  if  the  hive  is  a  trifle  over  seven  spans  high,  he  is 
culpable;  but  if  it  is  seven  and  a  half  spans  high,  he  is  not.  R. 
Ashi,  however,  said:  He  is,  even  if  it  is  seven  and  a  half  spans 
high.  Why  so  ?  Because  the  enclosing  rim  of  the  bee-hive  is 
made  for  the  purpose  of  containing  something  within,  and  not 
to  be  attached  to  the  ground ;  hence  it  is  not  included  in  the 
Lavud  class.  § 

Ula  said :  A  post  nine  spans  high,  which  stands  in  the  street, 
and  people  use  it  to  shoulder  (their  burdens)  on,  if  one  threw 
a  thing  and  it  rested  on  the  top  of  it,  he  is  culpable.  Why  so  ? 
Because  a  thing  that  is  less  than  three  spans  high  is  stepped 
upon  by  many ;  a  thing  between  three  and  nine  spans  high  is 
not  used  either  to  step  or  to  shoulder  a  burden  on ;  but  if  it  is 
nine  spans  high,  it  is  surely  used  to  shoulder  burdens  on. 

Abayi  questioned  R.  Joseph:  What  is  the  law  of  a  pit  (of 
similar  depth)  ?     Said  he:  The  same  (as  of  the  post).     Rabha, 

*  The  cornice  which  is  spoken  of  above  should  be  like  the  branch  in  this  instance. 

f  The  space  above  ten  spans  does  not  enter  within  the  jurisdiction  of  public  ground. 

X  Here  a  bee-hive  is  spoken  of  which  is  not  six  spans  in  circumference,  i.e.,  less 
than  four  spans  square. 

§  There  is  a  law  of  Mosaic  origin  determining  that  every  object  that  is  not  farther 
from  the  ground  than  three  spans  must  be  considered  "  Lavud,"  i.e.,  attached  to  the 
ground.  In  the  above  case,  when  a  bee-hive  seven  spans  or  a  trifle  over  seven  spans 
high  is  thrown  to  the  ground,  it  does  not  become  postively  "  Lavud  "  when  within 
three  spans  from  the  ground,  and  is  thus  considered  ten  spans  in  all.  The  margin  is 
too  small.  It  must  be  seven  and  a  half  spans  high,  and  when  reaching  the  ground 
within  three  spans  the  hive  becomes  "  Lavud,"  and  being  positively  over  ten  spans 
high  is  treated  as  a  piece  of  private  property. 


12  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

however,  said :  A  pit  of  similar  depth  is  not  governed  by  the 
same  law.  Why  so  ?  Because  the  use  (which  is  made  of  a 
thing)  through  compulsion  is  not  called  (a  customary)  use. 

R.  Adda  bar  Mathna  objected  to  Rabha  from  the  following 
Boraitha:  If  one  intended  to  keep  the  Sabbath  on  public  ground 
and  deposited  his  Erubh  in  a  pit  less  than  ten  spans  (below  the 
ground),  his  act  is  valid.  "  If  he  deposited  it  more  than  ten 
spans  below  the  ground,  his  Erubh  is  of  no  value."  Let  us  see 
how  was  the  case.  If  the  pit  was  more  than  ten  spans  deep, 
and  by  the  saying  "  he  deposited  it  less  than  ten  spans  below 
the  ground"  is  meant  that  he  raised  the  Erubh  to  a  higher 
place,  and  by  the  saying"  more  than  ten  spans"  is  meant  on 
the  bottom  of  the  pit,  then,  at  all  events,  the  Erubh  could  not 
be  of  any  value;  as  he  is  in  public  ground,  and  his  Erubh  is  in 
private,  therefore  we  must  say  that  the  case  was  of  a  pit  less 
than  ten  spans  deep,  and  nevertheless  the  Erubh  is  valid ;  hence 
we  see  that  the  use  of  a  place  through  compulsion  can  at  times 
be  considered  as  customary  use. 

The  answer  was  that  the  Boraitha  is  according  to  Rabbi, 
who  says  that  against  things  which  are  prohibited  only  rabbini- 
cally  because  of  rest  (Shebuoth)  no  precautionary  measures  are 
taken  when  they  are  to  be  done  at  twilight,  and  the  prescribed 
time  for  depositing  an  Erubh  is  twilight;  therefore,  although* 
the  use  of  the  pit  which  was  less  than  ten  spans  deep  was  com- 
pulsory, the  Erubh  was  nevertheless  valid,  because  respecting 
twilight  the  rabbis  are  not  particular. 

R.  Jehudah  said:  If  one  moves  a  bundle  of  reeds  by  raising 
one  end  and  throwing  it  over,  then  raising  the  other  end  and 
throwing  it  over,  he  is  not  culpable,  unless  he  lifts  the  entire 
bundle  off  the  ground. 

The  master  said:  "  A  man  standing  on  the  door-step,"  etc. 
What  is  that  step  ?  If  it  is  the  step  of  the  street,  how  may  he 
"take  from  the  master  of  the  house";  does  he  not  transfer 
from  private  ground  into  public  ground  ?  If  it  is  the  step  of  the 
house,  how  may  he  "  take  from  the  mendicant  (standing  in  the 
street)  "  ?  Does  he  not  transfer  from  public  into  private  ground  ? 
And  if  it  is  unclaimed  ground,  how  may  he  "  take  and  give 
intentionally,"  since  a  direct  prohibition  to  that  efTect  exists  ? 

Nay,  the  door-step  is  a  place  concerning  which  the  law  has 
no  provision ;  as,  for  instance,  it  is  not  four  spans  square.  It  is 
said  elsewhere  by  R.  Dimi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  that  such 
a  thing  is  not  under  the  jurisdiction. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  13 

The  master  said:  "  All  three  are  not  culpable."  Would 
this  not  be  an  objection  to  Rabha,  who  said  if  one  transfer  an 
object  (in  public  ground)  from  one  to  the  other  limit  of  four 
spans,  even  if  he  moves  it  over  his  head  {i.e.,  above  ten  spans 
from  the  ground),  he  is  culpable  ?  In  the  above-mentioned 
case,  however,  he  is  not. 

Anonymous  teachers  say  "  a  door-step,"  etc.  Is  such  the 
case  even  if  there  is  no  side-beam  to  it  ?  Has  not  R.  Hamma 
bar  Gorion  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said  that  if  it  is  inside  the  door, 
and  not  even  four  spans  square,  there  must  still  be  a  side-beam 
to  make  it  a  free  place  ?  Said  R.  Judah  in  the  name  of  Rabh: 
Here  the  doorstep  of  an  alley  is  treated  of,  the  half  of  which  is 
roofed,  and  the  other  half  not  roofed,  and  the  roofing  is  toward 
the  inside.  In  this  case  when  the  door  is  open  it  is  considered 
like  the  inside,  when  it  is  closed  it  is  like  the  outside.  R.  Ashi, 
however,  said :  The  case  was  of  a  door-step  of  a  house,  but  the 
door  was  topped  by  two  beams,  each  of  which  was  less  than  four 
spans  wide,  and  between  them  the  space  was  less  than  three  spans 
wide,  the  door  itself  being  in  the  middle,  so  that  the  law  of  Lavud 
applies  only  when  the  door  is  open,  and  not  when  it  is  closed; 
therefore  when  it  is  open  the  door-step  is  considered  as  the  inside, 
and  when  it  is  closed  the  door-step  is  regarded  as  the  outside. 

"  If  the  door-step  is  ten  spans  high,"  etc.  This  supports 
the  theory  of  R.  Isaac  bar  Abbimi,  who  said  that  R.  Mair  used 
to  say:  Wherever  thou  findest  two  distinct  grounds  belonging 
to  the  same  premises  [i.e.,  to  which  the  law  of  premises  regard- 
ing the  Sabbath  applies  equally),  like  a  post  in  private  ground, 
that  is  ten  spans  high  and  four  wide,  it  is  prohibited  to  shoulder 
(a  burden)  on  it.  As  a  precautionary  measure  (enacted  by  the 
rabbis),  for  fear  that  the  same  would  be  done  with  a  rock  of  the 
same  size  that  may  be  found  in  the  street,  and  it  is  biblically 
prohibited  to  shoulder  upon  it. 

MISHNA  //. :  One  shall  not  sit  down*  before  the  hair-cut- 
ter at  the  approach  of  the  time  for  afternoon  devotion, f  before 

*  The  reference  made  here,  that  one  should  not  sit  down  before  the  hair-cutter 
near  the  time  for  the  afternoon  prayer  is  a  simple  precaution.  The  exact  specification 
for  the  time  is  to  be  found  in  Berachoth,  Perek  IV.,  M.  i. 

f  The  following  discussions  may  seem  to  have  no  direct  connection  with  the  ordi- 
nances pertaining  to  the  Sabbath  ;  however,  they  are  included  in  the  tract  on  account 
of  their  connection  with  the  succeeding  Mishna,  which  commences  :  "  A  tailor  shall 
not  go  out  with  his  needle  when  it  is  nearly  dark  on  Friday."  Incidentally,  the 
injunctions  concerning  the  time  for  the  Min'ha  are  given,  in  order  that  prayer  time 
shall  not  be  forgotten. 


14  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

reciting  his  prayers.  Nor  shall  he  enter  a  bath-room  or  a  tarv- 
nery  (the  same  is  the  case  with  any  factory  or  large  business), 
or  sit  down  to  eat,  or  start  pleading  a  case  (before  a  judge). 
But  if  he  has  started,  he  need  not  be  interrupted.  One  must 
quit  his  work  to  read  Shema,  but  he  need  not  stop  working  in 
order  to  pray. 

GEMARA:  What  time  of  Min'ha  does  the  Mishna  mean  ? 
Does  it  mean  the  high  afternoon  *  time  ?  Why  should  a  man  not 
be  allowed,  since  the  day  is  still  young  ?  Does  it  mean  the  lesser 
time,  and  still  hold  that  (if  the  man  had  started  the  work)  he 
need  not  discontinue  it  ?  Shall  this  be  taken  as  an  objection  to 
the  opinion  of  R.  Joshua  ben  Levi,  who  said:  "  When  the  time 
of  afternoon  prayer  draws  nigh,  one  must  not  partake  of  any- 
thing before  performing  his  devotion  "  ?  Nay,  he  speaks  here 
of  the  high  time,  and  yet  one  shall  not  begin  cutting  his  hair,  as 
a  precaution  against  accidents,  lest  his  scissors  break ;  a  bath  to 
sweat,  lest  he  grow  exhausted ;  a  tannery,  lest  he  notice  some 
damage  to  his  wares  and  become  confused  ;  nor  shall  he  sit  down 
to  eat  lest  the  meal  be  protracted ;  pleading  a  case  of  justice, 
lest  argument  be  advanced  that  overthrows  all  previous  argu- 
ments, and  until  all  this  is  settled  the  Min'ha  prayer  will  be 
forgotten. 

From  what  moment  does  the  act  of  hair-cutting  begin  ?  Said 
R.  Abhin :  From  the  moment  the  barber's  cloth  is  spread  over 
him.  The  act  of  bathing  begins  from  the  moment  the  coat  is 
pulled  off;  tanning  begins  from  the  moment  the  working-apron 
is  tied  around  the  shoulders;  a  meal  begins  from  the  moment 
the  hands  are  washed,  so  said  Rabh ;  but  R.  Hanina  said,  from 
the  moment  one  takes  off  his  girdle.  And  they  do  not  differ. 
Rabh  spoke  of  the  custom  of  his  country,  and  R.  Hanina  spoke 
of  the  custom  of  his  country. 

Abayi  said:  According  to  him  who  holds  that  the  evening 
prayer  is  discretionary,  our  Babylon  colleagues,  as  soon  as  they 
take  off  their  girdle  for  the  meal,  they  must  not  be  troubled  to 
pray  before  meal;  however,  according  to  him  who  holds  that 
even  this  prayer  is  obligatory,  they  must  be  troubled.     But  is 

*  High  afternoon  (Min'ha)  was  the  time  when  the  regular  afternoon  sacrifice  was 
offered  at  the  temple,  about  an  hour  after  midday.  The  lesser  afternoon  time  was 
about  an  hour  before  sunset.  Because  the  time  for  afternoon  devotion  was  calculated 
by  the  offering  of  the  "  gift-sacrifice,"  the  name  of  that  sacrifice,  "  Min'ha,"  is  used 
by  the  rabbis  as  a  technical  term  to  designate  both  the  afternoon  devotion  and  the 
time  when  it  is  to  be  performed. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  15 

not  the  afternoon  prayer  obligatory  by  all  means,  and  neverthe- 
less our  Mishna  teaches  that  "if  he  began  (his  meal)  he  need 
not  be  interrupted,"  to  which  R.  Hanina  said  that  the  loosen- 
ing of  the  girdle  (is  the  beginning)  ?  In  the  case  of  the  after- 
noon prayer,  since  the  time  for  it  is  fixed,  (we  assume)  that  the 
man  will  hasten  and  will  not  fail  to  pray  in  time,  while  for  evening 
prayer,  the  time  for  which  extends  through  the  entire  night,  it 
is  feared  that  he  may  not  hasten,  and  neglect  it. 

R.  Shesheth  opposed:  Is  it  so  much  trouble  to  put  on  one's 
girdle  ?  Furthermore,  cannot  one  stand  up  (without  a  girdle)  and 
pray?  Nay!  As  it  is  written:  "Prepare  thyself  to  meet  thy 
God,  O  Israel!"  [Amos,  iv.  12];  and  as  Rabha  b.  R.  Huna 
used  to  put  on  stockings  when  he  stood  up  to  recite  prayers, 
saying:  It  is  written:  "Prepare  thyself,"  etc.  Rabha,  how- 
ever, used  to  throw  off  his  mantle  and  fold  his  hands  when 
he  prayed,  speaking  as  a  slave  before  his  master.  R.  Ashi 
said:  I  have  observed  R.  Kahana.  In  times  of  trouble  he 
threw  off  his  mantle  and  folded  his  hands  when  he  prayed, 
speaking  like  a  slave  before  his  master.  In  times  of  peace 
he  dressed  and  fitted  himself  up  carefully,  saying:  "It  is 
written,  Prepare  thyself  to  meet  thy  God,  O  Israel."  Rabha 
noticed  that  R.  Hamnuna  spent  much  time  at  his  prayers.  Said 
he:  "Thus  they  quit  eternal  life  and  busy  themselves  with 
transient  life."*  He,  R.  Hamnuna,  however,  thought  that  the 
time  spent  in  prayer  is  a  thing  by  itself,  and  the  time  devoted 
to  study  is  also  a  thing  by  itself.  R.  Jeremiah  was  sitting 
before  R.  Zera  discussing  a  Halakha.  The  day  was  breaking 
and  time  for  prayer  came,  and  R.  Jeremiah  hastened  for  the 
purpose  of  praying.  Said  R.  Zera  to  him:  "  When  one  turn- 
eth  away  his  ear  so  as  not  to  listen  to  the  law,  even  his  prayer 
becometh  an  abomination  "  [Prov.  xxviii.  9]. 

At  what  moment  does  the  work  of  dispensing  justice  com- 
mence ?  R.  Jeremiah  and  R.  Jonah — one  said:  "From  the 
moment  the  judges  put  on  their  mantles";  the  other  said: 
"  From  the  moment  the  litigants  begin  pleading."  And  they 
do  not  differ.  The  former  speaks  of  the  instance  of  opening 
court ;  the  latter  of  the  instance  when  the  court  was  in  session 
and  the  judges  were  engaged  in  deciding  other  cases. 

Up  to  what  time  should  court  be  in  session  ?     R.  Shesheth 

*  The  rabbi  thus  regarded  prayer  as  a  thing  belonging  to  transient  life,  because 
it  benefits  only  the  individual.  Study,  on  the  other  hand,  is  regarded  as  an  object 
that  concerns  eternal  life,  for  by  its  results  future  generations  may  be  benefited. 


i6  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

said:  "  Up  to  meal  time."  Said  R.  Hama:  From  what  scrip- 
tural passage  have  we  this  ?  From  "  Happy  art  thou,  O  land! 
when  thy  king  is  noble-spirited,  and  thy  princes  eat  in  proper 
time,  for  strengthening  and  not  for  gluttony!"  [Eccl.  x.  17]; 
i.e.,  for  the  strength  of  the  law  and  not  for  indulgence  in  wine. 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  first  hour  (of  the  day)  is  the  time  the 
Lydians  eat  (the  Lydians  were  cannibals) ;  in  the  second  hour 
robbers  eat;  in  the  third  hour  (rich)  heirs  eat;  the  fourth  hour 
is  eating-time  for  the  people  in  general ;  in  the  fifth  hour  laborers 
eat;  in  the  sixth  hour  scholars  eat;  from  the  last  hour  onward, 
eating  is  like  throwing  a  stone  into  a  barrel  (rather  injurious 
than  beneficial).  Said  Abayi :  This  is  the  case  only  when  one 
has  tasted  nothing  in  the  morning;  but  if  he  did  so,  it  does  not 
matter. 

R.  Ada  bar  Ahba  said :  One  may  say  his  prayers  in  a  new 
bath-room,  which  has  not  been  used.  R.  Hamnuna  said  in  the 
name  of  Ula:  One  is  not  permitted  to  call  Shalom  to  another 
man  in  a  bath-room,  for  it  is  written:  "  He  called  the  Eternal 
Shalom  "  [Judges,  vi.  23].*  If  so,  the  saying  of  the  word  "  faith" 
should  also  be  prohibited,  for  it  is  written,  "  the  faithful  God  " 
[Deut.  vii.  9].  And  lest  one  say  so  it  is,  has  not  Rabha  bar 
Mehassia  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Hama  bar  Gorion,  quoting 
Rabh,  that  "  faith  "  may  be  mentioned  ?  In  the  latter  case  the 
name  itself  is  not  so  designated,  as  it  means  as  it  is  translated 
above.  But  in  the  former  case  it  (Shalom)  is  a  designation  of 
the  name  itself. 

The  same  says  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority :  If 
one  bestows  a  gift  on  his  friend,  he  should  let  him  know  it ;  as 
it  is  written:  "  To  know  that  I,  the  Eternal,  made  you  holy" 
[Ex.  xxxi.  13].  And  there  is  a  Boraitha  which  states  as  fol- 
lows: "  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  said  unto  Moses,  I  have 
a  good  gift  in  my  storehouse;  its  name  is  Sabbath,  which  I  wish 
to  bestow  on  Israel;  go  and  announce  it  to  them."  From  this 
R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  said:  One  who  gives  a  child  some 
bread  should  announce  it  to  its  mother.  How  shall  he  do  this  ? 
Said  Abayi :  He  should  put  some  ointment  around  its  eyes  and 
stain  it  with  dye. 

Is  this  so?  Has  not  R.  Hama  b.  Hanina  said:  He  who 
bestows  a  gift  on  his  friend  need  not  announce  it  to  him,  for 
it  is  written:  "  Moses  knew  not,"  etc.  [Ex.  xxxiv.  29].     This 

*  Translated   literally.     Leeser,  however,  translates  differently  according  to  the 
sense,  but  his  translation  is  not  correct. 


TRACT    SABBATH 


17 


presents  no  difficulty.  The  latter  instance  represents  a  thing 
that  is  to  become  known  by  itself;  the  former  instance  treats  of 
a  thing  that  cannot  become  known  by  itself. 

But  was  not  the  Sabbath  a  thing  that  was  to  become  known  ? 
Aye,  but  the  reward  (for  keeping  the  Sabbath  holy)  that  attends 
it  was  not  to  be  known. 

R.  Johanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Yohayi  said:  All 
the  commands  that  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  gave  unto 
Israel,  were  given  with  publicity,  excepting  the  Sabbath,  which 
was  given  in  privacy,  for  it  is  written:  "  Between  me  and  the 
children  of  Israel  it  is  an  everlasting  sign"  [Ex.  xxxi.  17].  If 
such  is  the  case,  the  idolaters  need  not  be  punished  for  its  sake. 
The  Sabbath  was  made  known,  but  the  additional  soul  (a  new 
impetus  of  life)  which  comes  with  the  Sabbath  was  not  made 
known  to  them.  Thus  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish  said:  "  The  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  bestows  an  additional  soul  on  man  on  the 
eve  of  the  Sabbath,  and  takes  it  back  again  when  the  Sabbath 
departs."  * 

R.  Hisda  held  in  his  hand  two  gifts  f  from  the  flesh  of  an  ox, 
and  said:  "  I  will  give  this  to  the  man  who  will  tell  me  some 
new  teaching  in  the  name  of  Rabh."  Said  Rabha  b.  Mehassia 
to  him,  thus  taught  Rabh:  "  He  who  bestows  a  gift  on  a  friend 
should  let  him  know  it."  And  R.  Hisda  gave  him  the  meat. 
Said  the  former  again :  Art  thou  so  fond  of  the  teachings  of 
Rabh?  "  Aye,  aye,"  he  answered.  Said  he:  This  is  like  that 
which  Rabh  said:  A  silk  garment  is  precious  to  the  wearer. 
Rejoined  R.  Hisda:  Did  Rabh  indeed  say  so  ?  This  second 
thing  is  even  better  than  the  first ;  if  I  had  other  gifts  I  would 
bestow  them  too. 

Rabha  b.  Mehassia  in  the  name  of  the  same  said  again :  One 
should  never  show  preference  for  one  child  above  his  other  chil- 
dren, as  for  the  sake  of  two  selas'  weight  of  silk,  which  Jacob 
bestowed  on  Joseph  in  preference  to  his  other  sons,  the  brothers 
became  jealous  of  Joseph,  and  the  development  brought  about 
our  ancestors'  migration  into  Egypt. 

Again  he  continued :  One  should  always  endeavor  to  seek  a 
dwelling  in  a  city  of  recent  settlement,  for  the  settlement  being 
recent,  the  sins  are  few.     As  it  is  written :  "  Behold,  this  city  is 

*  Transposed  from  Tract  Betzah,  p.  i63. 

f  He  was  an  Aaronite,  and  in  his  time  they  used  to  give  the  Aaronites  their  meat- 
offerings. In  the  time  of  R.  Hisda  the  descendants  of  the  priests  still  received  their 
titles. 

VOL.  I. — 2. 


i8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

near  to  flee  thereunto,  and  it  is  little"  [Gen.  xix.  20].  What 
does  it  mean,  it  is  near  and  small  ?  Could  not  he  see  this  him- 
self ?  But  it  means  its  settlement  is  recent  and  therefore  its 
sins  are  not  many. 

The  same  said  again:  A  city  whose  roofs  are  higher  than 
that  of  the  synagogue  will  ultimately  be  destroyed,  as  it  is  writ- 
ten: "  To  raise  high  the  house  of  our  God,"  etc.  [Ezra,  ix.  9]. 
However,  this  refers  only  to  the  roofs  of  the  houses,  but  as  to 
the  tops  of  towers  and  palaces,  it  does  not  concern  them.  Said 
R.  Ashi :  /  have  prevented  Matha  Mehassia  from  being  destroyed 
(as  he  had  made  the  prayer-house  and  the  college  higher  than 
other  houses).  But  was  it  not  destroyed  later  ?  Yea,  but  not 
for  this  sin. 

He  also  said:  *  It  is  better  to  be  dependent  on  an  Israelite 
than  on  an  idolater;  on  an  idolater  than  on  a  Persian;  on  a 
Persian  schoolman f  than  on  a  scholar;  on  a  scholar  than  on 
a  widow  or  an  orphan. 

He  also  said :  Rather  any  sickness  than  sickness  of  the  bowels ; 
rather  any  pain  than  pain  of  the  heart ;  rather  any  disorder  than 
a  disorder  in  the  head ;  rather  any  evil  than  a  bad  wife. 

Again  he  said  :  If  all  the  seas  were  ink,  if  all  the  swamps  were 
producing  pens,  if  the  whole  expanse  of  the  horizon  were  parch- 
ment, and  all  the  men  were  scribes,  the  (thoughts  that  fill  the) 
void  of  a  ruler's  heart  could  not  be  written  in  full.  Whence  is 
this  deduced  ?  Said  R.  Mesharsia:  "  The  heavens  as  to  height 
and  the  earth  as  to  depth,  and  the  hearts  of  kings  cannot  be 
fathomed"  [Prov.  xxv.  3]. 

' '  To  read  Shema, ' '  etc.  Was  it  not  stated  before  that  they 
need  not  be  interrupted  ?  This  sentence  applies  to  study,  as 
we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  Scholars  that  are  engaged  in 
studying  the  Law  must  stop  for  the  reading  of  Shema,  but  they 
need  not  stop  for  prayer."  Said  R.  Johanan  :  Such  is  the  case 
with  men  like  R.  Simeon  b.  Yo'hai  and  his  colleagues,  for  learn- 
ing was  their  profession ;  but  men  like  ourselves  must  stop  for 
prayer  also.  But  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  As 
(students)  need  not  quit  (their  studies)  for  prayer,  so  they  need 
not  stop  them  for  Shema  "  ?    This  applies  only  to  the  study  of 

*  These  somewhat  abstruse  distinctions  are  made  for  the  reason  that  a  depend- 
ent of  a  scholar,  orphan,  or  widow  is  liable  to  incur  greater  punishment  for  an  injury 
done  his  master  than  were  his  master  an  Ishmaelite,  Persian,  etc. 

f  The  title  "  Habher  "  is  the  exact  equivalent  of  "  fellowship  "  as  a  college  position 
fn  our  time  :  we  translate  it  "  schoolman." 


TRACT    SABBATH.  19 

the  establishment  of  leap  year;  as  R.  Ada  b.  Ahba,  and  so  also 
the  sa^es  of  Hagrunia  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar  b.  Zadok,  de- 
clared: "  When  we  were  engaged  in  fixing  a  leap  year  at  Yabne, 
we  did  not  quit  (our  work)  either  for  Shema  or  for  prayer." 

MISHNA  ///. :  A  tailor  shall  not  go  out  with  his  needle 
when  it  is  nearly  dark  on  Friday,  lest  he  forget  and  go  out 
(carrying  it  about  with  him)  after  dark;  nor  a  scribe  with  his 
pen ;  nor  shall  one  search  for  vermin  in  his  garments  or  read 
before  the  lamp-light  (Friday  night).  Of  a  verity  it  is  said,  an 
instructor  may  follow  the  children  when  they  read,  but  he  shall 
not  read  himself  (before  the  lamp-light).  In  a  similar  manner 
it  is  said  that  one  afiflicted  with  gonorrhoea  should  not  eat  from 
the  same  plate  with  a  woman  that  has  the  same  disease,  lest 
they  become  accustomed  to  one  another  and  come  to  sin. 

GEMARA:  "  A  tailor  shall  not  go  out,"  etc.  Does  not  the 
Mishna  mean  when  the  needle  is  stuck  in  the  garment  ?  Nay, 
it  treats  of  the  case  when  (the  tailor)  holds  it  in  his  hand. 

Come  and  hear.  "  A  tailor  shall  not  go  out  with  the  needle 
sticking  in  his  garment."  Does  this  not  treat  of  the  eve  of  the 
Sabbath  ?     Nay,  it  treats  of  the  Sabbath  itself. 

But  is  there  not  another  Boraitha:  "  A  tailor  shall  not  go 
out  with  the  needle  sticking  in  his  garment  on  Friday  when  it  is 
nearly  dark  "  ?  This  was  taught  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  who 
holds  that  a  laborer  (carrying  a  thing)  after  the  manner  of  his 
profession  is  culpable;  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following 
Tosephtha:  "  A  tailor  shall  not  go  out  with  his  needle  sticking 
in  his  garment;  nor  a  carpenter  with  his  ruler  behind  his  ear; 
nor  a  cloth  cleaner  with  the  spanning  cord  behind  his  ear;  nor 
a  weaver  with  the  stuffing  cotton  behind  his  ear;  nor  a  dyer 
with  samples  around  his  neck;  nor  a  money  changer  with  the 
dinar  in  his  ear.  If,  however,  they  did  so,  they  are  free,  though 
they  ought  not  to  start  it ;  so  is  the  decree  of  R.  Mair.  R.  Jehu- 
dah, however,  says :  The  laborer  only  (going  out)  after  the  man- 
ner of  his  profession  is  culpable;  but  not  common  men." 

In  the  school  of  R.  Ishmael  it  was  taught:  "  One  may  go 
out  with  the  phylacteries  on  his  head  at  twilight  on  the  eve  of 
Sabbath."  Why  so  ?  As  Rabha  b.  R.  Huna  said:  One  must 
feel  the  phylacteries  on  his  head  at  all  times,  and  in  consequence 
he  will  be  reminded,  through  feeling  the  phylacteries,  that  he 
must  remove  them  before  the  Sabbath. 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  A  man  must  examine  his  garments  on 
Friday  evening,  when  it  is  getting  dark,  to  see  whether  there  is 


20  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

anything  in  them  that  must  not  be  carried  about  on  the  Sab- 
bath. Said  R.  Joseph :  This  is  an  important  ordinance  con- 
cerning the  Sabbath. 

"  One  shall  not  search  for  vermin,'"  etc.  Does  it  mean  one 
shall  not  search  for  vermin  in  the  day-time  (of  a  Sabbath)  lest 
he  destroy  any;  and  he  shall  not  read  before  a  lamp-light  lest 
he  snufT  (the  wick) ;  or  are  both  ordinances  connected  with  each 
other  so  as  to  make  the  ordinance  prohibiting  the  snufifing  of 
the  wick  binding  ?  Come  and  hear.  "  One  shall  not  search  for 
vermin  nor  read  before  the  lamp-light."  What  can  we  under- 
stand from  this  Boraitha  better  than  from  our  Mishna  ?  Come 
and  hear  another  Boraitha:  "  One  shall  not  search  before  the 
lamp-light;  also,  one  shall  not  read  before  it."  These  two 
ordinances  are  among  the  other  established  Halakhas  in  the 
attic  of  Hananiah  b.  Hyzkiyah  b.  Gorion.  From  this  is  to  be 
inferred  that  both  cases  were  prohibited  for  the  same  reason, 
that  they  may  entail  snuffing  the  wick. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said  :  One  must  not  try  to 
distinguish  even  between  his  own  and  his  wife's  garments  (before 
the  lamp-light).  Said  Rabha:  This  is  said  only  for  the  inhabitants 
of  Ma'hoza,*  but  among  the  dwellers  of  rural  places  the  garments 
can  easily  be  distinguished.  And  even  among  the  inhabitants  of 
Ma'hoza,  only  the  garments  of  old  women  cannot  easily  be  dis- 
tinguished from  those  of  the  men,  but  not  of  young  women. 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  shall  not  search  for  vermin  in  the 
street  out  of  self-respect.  In  the  same  wise,  R.  Jehudah  or  R. 
Ne'hemiah  taught  that  one  shall  not  vomit  in  the  street  out  of 
self-respect.  The  rabbis  taught:  One  who  searches  his  gar- 
ments and  finds  a  louse  shall  not  crack  it,  but  simply  rub  it  with 
his  fingers  and  throw  it  away  (on  the  Sabbath).  Says  R.  Huna: 
This  should  also  be  done  even  on  week  days,  out  of  self-respect. 

We  have  learned,  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said:  "  One  shall  not 
kill  vermin  on  the  Sabbath."  So  said  Beth  Shamai ;  Beth  Hil- 
lel,  however,  allowed  this.  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  used  also  to 
say  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel:  "  One  is  not  allowed 
to  negotiate  marriage  engagements  for  children,  nor  to  engage 
teachers  or  artisan  masters  for  children,  nor  to  pay  visits  of  con- 
dolence to  mourners,  nor  to  visit  the  sick  on  the  Sabbath.  Such 
is  the  decree  of  Beth  Shamai;  Beth  Hillel,  however,  allows  all 
this." 

*  Large  cities  where  tlie  men  are  effeminate  and  wear  garments  like  the  women. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  21 

The  mbbis  taught :  If  one  comes  to  visit  the  sick  on  the  Sab- 
bath, he  shall  say:  "It  is  Sabbath  and  we  are  not  to  cry,  but 
relief  is  drawing  nigh."  R.  Mair  said,  one  should  say:  "  The 
Sabbath  (if  respected)  may  bring  mercy."  Rabbi  Jehudah  said: 
"  May  the  Omnipotent  have  mercy  with  thee  and  toward  the 
sick  of  Israel."  R.  Jose  said:  "  May  the  Omnipotent  bestow 
mercy  on  thee  amongst  the  sick  of  Israel."  Shebhna  the  Jeru- 
salemite  when  he  entered  (a  sick-room  on  the  Sabbath)  said, 
"  Shalom  " ;  on  leaving  he  said:  "  To  cry!  it  is  Sabbath;  never- 
theless, relief  is  nigh  " ;  "  As  His  mercies  are  great,"  and  "  Rest 
ye  in  peace." 

According  to  whom  is  what  R.  Hanina  said:  "  He  who  has 
a  sick  person  in  the  house  should  include  him  (in  his  prayers) 
amongst  the  sick  in  Israel"  ?  It  was  in  accordance  with  R. 
Jose.  R.  Hanina  also  said  that  it  was  with  difificulty  that  the 
rabbis  allowed  visits  of  condolence  to  be  paid  to  mourners  and 
to  visit  the  sick  on  a  Sabbath.  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  said :  When 
I  accompanied  R.  Eliezer  while  visiting  the  sick,  I  sometimes 
heard  him  say  (in  Hebrew):  "  May  the  Omnipotent  mind  thee 
in  peace,"  and  sometimes  (in  Aramaic):  "May  the  Merciful 
remember  thee  in  peace."  How  could  he  do  this?  Did  not 
R.  Jehudah  say:  "  One  should  never  pray  for  what  he  needs  in 
the  Aramaic  language  "  ?  And  also  R.  Johanan :  "  The  angels 
of  service  do  not  listen  to  one's  prayer  in  the  Aramaic  tongue, 
for  they  know  not  that  language."  The  case  of  a  sick  person 
is  different,  as  ShckJiina  itself  \s  with  him.  (This  will  be  explained 
in  Tract  Nedarin  in  the  proper  place.) 

One  shall  not  read  before  the  lamp-light/'  Rabba  said:  It 
is  the  same  even  if  the  lamp  is  placed  two  (men's)  heights  (from 
the  ground) ;  even  two  stories  high,  or  even  if  it  is  on  top  of  ten 
houses,  one  above  the  other.  "  One  shall  not  read,"  but  tzuo 
may?  Have  we  not  learned,  "  Neither  one  nor  two  "  ?  Said  R. 
Elazar:  This  presents  no  difficulty.  Our  Mishna  treats  of  two 
reading  one  subject;  and  there  it  treats  of  two  reading  different 
subjects.  Said  R.  Huna:  Around  the  hearth-fire  even  ten  per- 
sons shall  not  read  together.  Rabha,  however,  said :  A  promi- 
nent man  may  read,  as  he  would  not  degrade  himself  by  stirring 
the  fire. 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following:  One  should  not 
read  before  a  lamp-light,  lest  he  snuff  the  wick.  Said  R.  Ish- 
mael  b.  EHsha:  "  I  will  read  and  not  snuff  it."  Once  he  actually 
read  and  was  tempted  to  snuff  the  wick.     And  he  exclaimed: 


22  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  How  great  is  the  saying  of  the  sages,  that  one  should  not  read 
before  a  lamp-light."  R.  Nathan  said:  He  actually  snuffed  the 
wick  and  noted  in  his  diary:  "  I,  Ishmael  b.  Elisha,  have  read 
before  the  lamp  on  Sabbath,  and  have  snuffed  the  wick.  When 
the  holy  temple  shall  be  rebuilt,  I  will  bring  a  fat  sin-offering." 
Said  R.  Aba:  With  R.  Ishmael  b.  Elisha  it  is  different,  for 
while  studying  the  Law  he  always  considered  himself  common. 

There  is  one  Boraitha:  A  servant  may  examine  cups  and 
dishes  (to  see  if  they  are  clean,  before  the  lamp) ;  and  another, 
that  he  may  not.  This  presents  no  difificulty.  The  former 
treats  of  a  servant  in  permanent  engagement;*  the  latter  of 
one  who  performs  occasional  service.  And  if  you  wish,  it  may 
be  said  that  both  Boraithas  apply  to  a  permanent  servant :  the 
latter  in  the  case  of  a  lamp  which  is  fed  with  oil,  the  former  in 
the  case  where  it  is  fed  with  naphtha.  (Naphtha  emits  a  bad 
odor;  he  will  therefore  not  be  tempted  to  touch  it.) 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  May  a  servant  that 
is  not  permanently  engaged  (examine  his  utensils)  before  a  lamp 
fed  with  oil  ? 

Said  Rabh :  The  rule  is  laid  down  (that  he  may),  but  we  do 
not  practise  it.  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Aba,  however,  said:  So  is  the 
rule,  and  so  we  practise. 

Once  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Aba  took  (his  Friday  night  meal)  at  the 
house  of  R.  Assi.  His  servant  (R.  Jeremiah's  retainer,  who 
was  at  the  time  doing  occasional  service  in  R.  Assi's  house)  pro- 
ceeded to  examine  (the  dishes)  before  the  lamp.  Said  the  wife 
of  R.  Assi  (to  her  husband) :  "  You,  my  master,  do  not  approve 
of  this."  "  Let  him  be,"  answered  R.  Assi;  "  he  acts  accord- 
ing to  the  opinion  of  his  master." 

Of  a  verity  they  said,  an  iristructor,'"  etc.  Was  it  not  said, 
"  He  may  see  "  ?  For  what  purpose  should  he  do  this  but  to 
read  ?  Nay;  he  should  see  in  order  to  watch  the  sequence  of 
paragraphs.  So  also  said  Rabba  b.  Samuel:  "  He  may  arrange 
the  sequence  of  paragraphs."  Consequently,  may  he  not  read 
the  paragraphs  through  ?  Would  this  not  oppose  the  statement 
of  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  who  said:  "  Children  in  their  rabbi's 
house  used  to  arrange  their  paragraphs  and  read  before  the 
lamp-light"  ?  With  children  the  case  is  different;  out  of  fear 
for  their  master  they  will  not  be  led  to  adjust. 

MISHNA   IV. \    And    these    are    some    of    the    regulations 

*  A  servant  in  permanent  engagement  is  more  careful  about  his  dishes,  for  fear 
that  he  may  lose  his  position.     He  is  therefore  more  apt  to  adjust  the  wick. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  23 

enacted  in  the  attic  of  Hananiah  b.  Hyzkiyah  b.  Gorion,  when 
the  rabbis  came  to  visit  him.  They  called  the  roll  and  found 
that  the  disciples  of  Shamai  were  more  numerous  than  those  of 
Hillel,  and  they  enforced  eighteen  regulations  on  that  day. 

GEMARA :  Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph :  Does  the  expression 
"  and  these,"  etc.,  refer  to  the  things  that  were  mentioned,  or 
is  "  these"  used  with  reference  to  things  to  be  mentioned  far- 
ther on  ?  Come  and  hear.  "  One  shall  not  search  for  vermin 
or  read  before  a  lamp-light ;  and  these  are  some  of  the  regula- 
tions," etc.  From  this  it  is  obvious  that  "  and  these"  is  the 
correct  version. 

The  rabbis  taught:  The  "Roll  of  Fasts"  was  written  by 
Hananiah  b,  Hyzkiyah  and  his  company,  for  they  thought  with 
fondness  of  the  troubles  (which  their  race  had  experienced). 
Said  R.  Simeon  b,  Gamaliel:  We  also  think  with  fondness  of 
the  troubles ;  but  what  shall  we  do  ?  If  we  were  to  record  (all 
the  troubles  our  race  has  experienced  since  that  time)  we  would 
never  finish.  It  may  also  be  said :  A  fool  never  feels  trouble, 
or  (more  pointedly)  a  dead  member  on  a  living  body  feels  not 
the  lancet.* 

MISHNA  F. :  The  Beth  Shamai  said:  Ink,  dye  material,  or 
fodder  (for  animals)  shall  not  be  put  into  water  (on  Friday) 
unless  there  is  still  time  for  them  to  soak  through  while  it 
is  day.  The  Beth  Hillel,  however,  permits  this.  The  Beth 
Shamai  prohibits  putting  bundles  of  linen  thread  (to  bleach) 
into  the  oven  unless  there  is  sufficient  time  left  for  them  to 
become  heated  through  while  it  is  yet  day,  or  wool  into  a  dye- 
kettle  unless  there  is  still  time  for  it  to  be  soaked  through  the 
same  day.  The  Beth  Hillel  permits  this.  The  Beth  Shamai 
says:  Traps  shall  not  be  set  for  animals  and  birds,  or  nets  for 
fishes  (on  Friday),  unless  there  is  still  time  for  them  to  be  caught 
before  sunset.  The  Beth  Hillel  permits  this.  The  Beth  Shamai 
says:  One  shall  not  sell  anything  to  a  Gentile  (on  Friday)  or 
help  him  load  his  animal,  or  help  him  shoulder  a  burden  unless 
he  (the  Gentile)  can  reach  (with  his  load)  the  nearest  place  while 
it  is  yet  day.     The  Beth  Hillel  permits  this.     The  Beth  Shamai 

*  The  Geraara  discusses  here  the  eighteen  precautionary  measures  which  were 
enacted  in  the  attic  referred  to,  and  tried  also  to  find  them  out,  as  what  they  were  is 
not  mentioned  in  the  Mishna  at  all.  As  none  of  them,  except  the  two  mentioned  in 
the  Mishna  (which  is  not  discussed  at  all),  belong  to  Sabbath,  we  have  omitted  the 
whole  discussion.  However,  we  have  named  all  of  them  in  the  appendix  to  this 
tract  [Vol.  II.,  pp.  3S1-390,  q.  v.\  and  we  have  shown  that  all  of  these  enactments 
were  political  and  of  great  necessity  at  that  time. 


24  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

says :  Hides  shall  not  be  given  to  a  tanner  nor  clothes  to  a  Gen- 
tile washer  (on  a  Friday)  unless  there  is  still  sufficient  time  left 
for  him  (the  Gentile)  to  finish  it  while  it  is  day.  The  perform- 
ance of  all  these  acts  of  labor  heretofore  mentioned  was  per- 
mitted by  the  Beth  Hillel  (on  Friday)  while  the  sun  was  still 
shining.  Rabbi  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  said  :  At  my  father's  house 
it  was  the  custom  to  give  out  white  clothes  to  a  Gentile  washer 
three  days  before  the  Sabbath.  Both  schools,  however,  agree 
that  the  presses  may  be  put  on  olives  and  grapes  in  the  press- 
pits  (as  long  as  it  is  still  daytime). 

GEMARA:  Who  is  the  Tana  that  maintains  that  putting 
water  on  ink  constitutes  the  final  work  on  it  ?  Said  R.  Joseph : 
(It  is  Rabbi  of  the  following  Boraitha:  "  If  one  put  flour  (in  a 
vessel)  and  another  one  put  water  on  it,  the  latter  is  culpable 
(of  the  act  of  kneading);  so  is  the  decree  of  Rabbi."  R.  Jose, 
however,  says  that  one  is  not  culpable  until  he  kneads  it. 

The  rabbis  taught :  At  twilight  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  one 
may  make  an  opening  in  a  spring,  so  that  the  water  run  into 
the  garden  the  whole  day  (of  the  Sabbath).  He  may  also  put 
smoking  incense  underneath  garments,  so  that  they  hold  the 
fragrance  the  whole  day.  It  is  also  allowed  to  put  burning  sul- 
phur under  enamelled  vessels,  so  that  its  smoke  work  on  the 
paints  the  whole  Sabbath  day.  It  is  also  allowed  for  one  to 
put  a  balm  on  the  eye  and  a  plaster  on  a  wound,  so  that  the 
healing  process  continue  throughout  the  Sabbath ;  it  is  prohib- 
ited, however,  to  put  grain  into  a  water-mill,  unless  there  is  yet 
enough  daytime  left  for  it  to  be  ground.  Why  so  ?  Said  R. 
Joseph:  Because  one  is  obliged  to  give  rest  even  to  tools  on 
Sabbath. 

Now,  since  it  was  said  that  the  resting  of  tools  is  obligatory 
according  to  the  decision  of  the  Beth  Hillel,  why  did  they  per- 
mit putting  sulphur  and  incense  to  smoke,  or  linen  thread  to 
bleach  during  the  Sabbath  ?  Because  no  act  was  being  done, 
and  (the  tools  were  practically)  at  rest.  But  do  not  traps  set  for 
animals,  birds,  and  nets  for  fishes  work  ?  Why,  then,  did  they 
allow  these  ?  Here,  too,  they  treated  only  of  fishers'  rods  and 
traps,  which  do  no  work  (but  into  which  animals  work  themselves). 

Now,  as  R.  Oshia  has  declared  in  the  name  of  R.  Assi,  that 
only  the  Beth  Shamai  holds  that  there  is  a  biblical  obligation 
for  the  resting  of  tools,  but  not  the  Beth  Hillel,  all  the  acts 
enumerated  above  are  permitted  by  the  latter,  even  in  the  event 
of  the  tools  performing  work. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  25 

Who  is  the  Tana  of  what  the  rabbis  taught  anonymously  as 
follows:  "A  won:ian  shall  not  put  dried  lentils  and  peas  into 
the  oven  on  Friday  when  it  is  getting  dark  and  leave  them  there 
(to  get  soft) ;  and  if  she  needs  them  for  after  the  Sabbath  she 
shall  not  use  them,  unless  she  waits  the  length  of  time  re- 
quired to  cook  them  afresh.  In  the  same  wise  a  baker  shall  not 
put  a  vessel  with  water  in  the  oven  on  Friday  when  it  is  getting 
dark ;  and  if  he  needs  (the  hot  water)  for  after  the  Sabbath,  he 
shall  not  use  it  unless  he  waits  the  length  of  time  it  would 
require  to  boil  it  afresh."  Shall  we  assume  that  this  is  in 
accordance  with  the  Beth  Shamai,  but  not  with  Beth  Hillel  ?  It 
may  also  be  in  accordance  with  the  Beth  Hillel,  as  the  pro- 
hibitions were  made  as  precautionary  measures  lest  one  stir  the 
coals.  If  such  is  the  case,  the  burning  of  incense  and  sulphur 
(as  mentioned  in  our  Mishna)  should  also  be  prohibited  for  the 
same  reason.  There  is  to  be  feared  that  the  coals  might  be 
stirred,  while  here  is  no  fear  of  that,  as  when  the  coals  are 
stirred  smoke  may  arise  and  injure  the  enamel  or  the  garments. 
In  the  case  of  the  linen  thread  also,  no  precautionary  measure 
was  necessary,  because  the  draught  caused  by  the  admission  of 
air  into  the  oven  would  prove  injurious  to  the  thread,  and  there- 
fore one  would  not  open  the  oven  to  stir  the  fire.  Then  let  the 
placing  of  wool  into  a  (dye)  kettle  be  prohibited  as  a  precaution- 
ary measure  ?  The  Mishna  treats  of  a  kettle  that  stands  at 
some  distance  from  the  fire;  so  says  Samuel.  Still,  the  appre- 
hension exists  that  he  may  stir  the  dye.  Nay,  we  speak  of 
a  kettle  whose  cover  is  sealed  with  clay. 

Now  that  the  master  said  that  the  prohibitions  (of  the  Bo- 
raitha)  are  only  precautionary  measures,  to  prevent  one  from 
stirring  the  coals,  a  cold  pot  may  be  put  in  the  oven  on  Friday 
when  it  is  getting  dark.  Why  so  ?  Because  the  victuals  in  it 
cannot  be  used  the  same  evening,  and  he  (the  cook)  will  never 
think  of  stirring  the  coals. 

"  One  shall  not  sell  a  thing  to  a  Gentile,'"  etc.  The  rabbis 
taught:  The  Beth  Shamai  said:  One  shall  not  sell  a  thing  to 
a  Gentile,  nor  lend  it  to  him,  nor  help  him  carry  it,  nor  lend 
him  nor  present  him  with  any  money  on  Sabbath  eve  unless 
there  is  time  enough  for  the  recipient  to  reach  his  house  before 
night  comes  on.  The  Beth  Hillel  said  (all  this  may  be  done)  if 
there  is  time  enough  to  reach  his  house  at  the  wall  of  the  city 
where  he  lives.  R,  Aqiba,  however,  says:  It  is  sufificient  if  there 
is  time  enough  for  the  Gentile  to  leave  the  house  of  the  Jew. 


26  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Said  R.  Jose  b.  Jehudah :  "  R.  Aqiba  contends  that  his  teach- 
ing does  not  contradict  that  of  the  Beth  Hillel,  but  merely 
explains  the  latter's  real  intent." 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  may  put  down  eatables  on  his  own 
grounds  for  a  Gentile  (on  the  Sabbath).  If  the  latter  takes  the 
eatables  and  carries  them  off,  he  need  not  prevent  him. 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  shall  not  hire  out  his  tools  to  a  Gen- 
tile on  Friday,  but  he  may  do  so  on  Wednesday  or  Thursday 
(even  if  he  knows  positively  that  the  Gentile  will  use  them  on 
Sabbath).  In  the  same  manner,  it  is  prohibited  to  transmit  a 
letter  by  a  Gentile  on  Friday,  but  it  may  be  sent  on  Wednesday 
or  Thursday.  It  was  said  of  R.  Jose  the  Priest,  according  to 
others  the  Pious,  that  his  handwriting  was  never  found  in  the 
hands  of  a  Gentile  (for  fear  that  it  might  be  carried  on  the 
Sabbath). 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  shall  not  send  a  letter  by  a  Gentile 
on  Friday  unless  he  stipulated  a  certain  sum  for  the  delivery. 
If  such  a  stipulation  was  not  made,  the  Beth  Shamai  says  it 
must  not  be  delivered,  unless  the  messenger  has  time  to  reach 
the  house  in  which  it  is  to  be  delivered  (before  sunset);  the 
Beth  Hillel,  however,  maintains:  He  may  do  it  if  the  messenger 
has  time  to  reach  the  house  nearest  to  the  wall  of  the  city 
where  the  letter  is  to  be  delivered.  Was  it  not  taught  at  first 
that  "  one  shall  not  send  "  at  all  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty. 
In  the  first  part  the  case  treats  of  a  town  which  has  no  post- 
office  ;  in  the  latter  part  the  Boraitha  speaks  of  a  town  which 
has  one. 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  shall  not  embark  on  a  vessel  less 
than  three  days  before  the  Sabbath.  This  is  the  case  if  one 
goes  (to  sea)  on  private  business,  but  if  he  goes  for  a  meritori- 
ous act,  he  may  do  so.  He  may  make  a  stipulation  with  the 
owner  of  the  boat  that  it  shall  rest  on  Sabbath,  although  he  is 
aware  that  he  will  not  do  so;  so  is  the  decree  of  Rabbi.  R. 
Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  maintains  that  such  a  stipulation 
is  not  necessary.  To  travel  from  Tyre  to  Zidon  (a  journey  of 
a  few  hours)  one  may  embark  even  on  Friday. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Siege  shall  not  be  laid  to  Gentile  cities 
less  than  three  days  before  the  Sabbath,  but  when  the  siege  is 
laid  it  need  not  be  interrupted.  So  also  Shamai  used  to  say: 
It  is  written,  "  until  it  is  brought  down  "  [Deut.  xx.  20],  i.e.^ 
even  on  a  Sabbath  day. 

"  R.  Simeon  b.    Gamaliel  said,''  etc.     There  is  a  Boraitha: 


TRACT   SABBATH.  27 

R.  Zadok  said:  "  It  was  the  custom  at  the  house  of  Rabban 
Gamaliel  to  give  white  clothes  to  the  washer  three  days  before 
the  Sabbath,  but  colored  clothes  even  on  a  Friday."  From 
this  we  have  learned  that  it  is  harder  to  wash  white  clothes  than 
colored  ones.  Abayi  gave  colored  clothes  to  the  washer  and 
asked:  How  much  wilt  thou  take  for  washing  them  ?  "As 
much  as  for  white  clothes,"  answered  the  washer.  Said  Abayi: 
"  The  rabbis  have  preceded  thee  with  their  declaration  "  (that 
white  clothes  are  harder  to  wash). 

' '  Both  schools  agree, ' '  etc.  Why  did  the  school  of  Shamai 
enforce  precautionary  measures  in  all  the  previous  cases,  but  in 
the  case  of  wine  and  oil  presses  they  did  not  do  so  ?  They  pro- 
hibited the  performance  of  such  labor  as  involves  the  obligation 
of  a  sin-offering,  if  performed  (unintentionally)  on  the  Sabbath, 
or  on  a  Friday  when  approaching  darkness;  but  for  the  putting 
of  press  beams  on  grapes  or  olives,  which  does  not  involve  the 
obligation  of  a  sin-offering  even  if  done  on  the  Sabbath,  the 
precautionary  measure  was  not  necessary. 

From  this  it  may  be  inferred  that  work  which  continues  by 
itself  may  well  be  started  (late  on  Friday).*  Who  is  the  Tana 
that  holds  so?  Said  R.  Jose:  R.  Ishmael  of  the  Mishna 
(Ediath,  II.  7):  "  Garlic,  unripe  grapes,  and  green  grain-stalks 
which  were  crushed  (on  Friday)  while  yet  day,  may  be  put 
under  pressure  at  sunset;  so  is  the  decree  of  R.  Ishmael. 
R.  Aqiba,  however,  says:  "  It  must  not  be  done."  R.  Elazar 
(b.  Pedath),  however,  said  that  the  Tana  in  question  is  R.  Elazar 
(b.  Samoa)  of  the  following  Mishna:  "  Honeycombs  that  were 
crushed  on  Friday  shall  not  be  put  in  the  press  (at  sunset),  so 
that  the  honey  run  out  by  itself;  R.  Elazar,  however,  permits 
it."  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina  has  practised  in  accordance  with  the 
theory  of  R.  Ishmael. 

The  oil  and  the  covers  of  the  small  oil-presses  Rabh  pro- 
hibits to  handle  on  the  Sabbath.  Samuel,  however,  permits  it. 
The  same  is  the  case  with  reed-cloth ;  Rabh  prohibits,  and  Sam- 
uel permits  (to  handle).  Covers  that  are  used  on  board  of  a 
vessel  to  cover  the  deck  Rabh  prohibits,  and  Samuel  permits  the 
handling  of. 

R.  Na'hman  said  :  "  A  goat  that  is  kept  for  its  milk,  a  sheep 
that  is  kept  for  its  wool,  a  hen  that  is  kept  for  its  eggs,  an  ox 

*  Without  requiring  the  labor  of  man  when  once  started,  as  is  the  case  with  wine 
and  oil  presses,  in  which  case  the  beams,  once  put  on  grapes  or  olives,  force  the  fluids 
to  run  down  of  their  own  accord. 


28  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

that  is  kept  for  the  plough,  and  dates  that  are  put  up  for  the 
market,  are  prohibited  for  use  at  a  biblical  feast,"  according  to 
Rabh;  Samuel,  however,  said  it  was  permitted.  The  point  of 
their  differing  is  the  law  of  Muktza,  in  which  R.  Jehudah  and 
R.  Simeon  differ,  (It  is  explained  farther  on  that,  according  to 
the  latter,  no  Muktza  exists.) 

A  disciple  in  'Harta  of  Argis*  decided  cases  according  to 
R.  Simeon's  teaching,  and  R.  Hamnunah  put  him  under  the 
ban.  But  have  we  not  adopted  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon  ? 
Yea,  but  'Harta  was  within  the  jurisdiction  of  Rabh,  and  he 
(the  disciple)  should  not  have  done  as  he  did  against  Rabha's 
teaching. 

MISHNA  VI. :  Meats,  onions,  and  eggs  shall  not  be  put  to 
roasting  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  unless  they  can  be  done  while 
it  is  yet  day. 

Bread  shall  not  be  put  in  the  oven  or  a  cake  upon  live  coals, 
unless  the  crust  can  be  formed  while  it  is  yet  day.  R.  Elazar 
says  it  is  enough  if  the  bottom  crust  is  formed.  The  Passover 
sacrifice  may  be  turned  around  in  the  oven  (on  Friday)  when 
it  is  getting  dark.  In  the  heating-house  of  (the  sanctuary) 
the  fire  was  fed  at  eventide.  The  fires  in  the  rural  districts 
may  be  fed  until  the  flames  envelop  the  greatest  part  (of 
the  fuel).  R.  Judha  says:  "  Where  coals  were  already  burn- 
ing more  fuel  may  be  added,  even  when  Sabbath  is  quite  near 
at  hand." 

GEMARA:  When  should  such  victuals  be  considered  done  ? 
Said  R.  Elazar  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  "  When  they  are  done  like 
the  victuals  of  Ben  Drostai."t  As  we  have  learned  in  a  Bo- 
raitha:  Hananiah  says  all  victuals  that  are  done  like  the  victuals 
of  Ben  Drostai  may  be  left  upon  the  hearth,  even  if  the  fire  in 
the  hearth  is  not  stirred  up  and  full  of  ashes, 

"  Bread  shall  not  be  put,''  etc.  The  schoolmen  propounded 
a  question:  ("  Does  R.  Elazar  speak  of)  the  crust  that  is  formed 
near  the  wall  of  the  oven,  or  the  crust  formed  (on  the  side  of 
the  loaf,  that  is  turned)  to  the  fire  ? " 

Come  and  hear.  R.  Elazar  says:  "It  is  sufificient  if  the 
surface  is  crusted,  which  lies  close  to  the  wall  of  the  oven." 

*  Argis  was  the  man  who  built  the  city  of  'Harta  and  R.  Hamnunah  lived  in  that 
city.  The  cave  in  which  he  is  buried  is  still  in  existence  there.  So  I  have  found 
written  in  an  answer  of  a  Gaon.     (Rashi.) 

f  A  notorious  highwayman,  who  could  never  stay  in  one  place  long  enough  to  cook 
his  meals,  and  was  wont  to  do  only  the  third  part  of  cooking  they  required. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  29 

*'  The  Passover  sacrifice  may  be  turned,'' &\.c.  Wny  so  ?  Be- 
cause a  company  (when  preparing  a  sacrifice  in  the  temple)  is 
very  cautious. 

But  if  this  were  not  the  case,  would  it  not  be  allowed  ?  Has 
not  the  master  said :  A  (sacrificial)  kid  may  be  used,  well  done 
or  not  well  done  ?  Aye,  but  in  that  case  it  is  cut  in  pieces;  in 
our  case  it  could  not  be  cut  in  pieces.* 

The  fire  m  the  heating-house,''  etc.  Why  so  ?  Whence  is 
this  deduced  ?  Said  R.  Huna:  It  is  written  [Ex.  xxxv.  3]: 
'  Ye  shall  not  kindle  any  fire  throughout  your  habitations  upon 
the  Sabbath  day."  Your  habitations  excluded  the  sanctuary. 
R.  Hisda  opposed:  If  it  is  so,  then  they  may  do  so  on  Sab- 
bath itself;  therefore  he  explains  thus:  The  cited  verse  ex- 
cludes only  the  parts  of  the  members  which  are  already  upon 
the  altar,  and  the  reason  of  our  Mishna  is  because  priests  are 
very  careful. 

' '  In  the  rural  districts, ' '  etc.  What  does  ' '  the  greatest 
part  "  mean  ?  According  to  Rabh :  "  The  greatest  part  of  each 
piece  "  ;  and  according  to  Samuel :  "  Until  no  more  small  wood 
is  needed  to  make  the  heap  burn."  R.  Hyya  taught  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha  in  support  of  R.  Samuel:  "The  flame  should 
continue  rising  by  itself,  and  not  by  the  assistance  of  anything 
else. ' '  And  to  only  one  log  of  wood  ?  — until  the  fire  catches  most 
of  its  thickness;  and  according  to  others,  the  most  of  its  circum- 
ference, was  the  decision  of  Rabh.  Said  R.  Papa:  To  comply 
with  both  views  just  mentioned  it  is  right  that  the  fire  should 
catch  both,  the  most  of  its  thickness  and  the  greatest  part  of  its 
circumference.  However,  regarding  this  law  Tanaim  of  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha  differ.  R.  Hyya  says:  Until  it  is  so  burned 
that  it  is  unfit  for  any  carpenter's  work.  R.  Judah  b.  Bathyra 
says:  Until  the  fire  catches  both  sides.  And  although  this  can- 
not be  substantiated  by  evidence  (from  Scripture),  there  is  a  hint 
of  this — viz.:  "  Both  ends  are  consumed  by  the  fire  and  the 
inside  is  scorched;  is  it  fit  for  any  work  ? "  [Ez.  xv.  4]. 

It  was  taught:  R.  Kahana  said:  Reeds,  if  they  are  tied 
together,  must  (have  enough  daytime  on  Friday)  to  burn  over 
half;  if  not  tied  together,  less  is  sufificient.  Granum  must  have 
enough  time  for  the  fire  to  catch  their  greater  part ;  if  they  are 
put  in  a  fire-pot,  they  need  not.     R.  Joseph  taught  four  sub- 


*  See  Ex.  xii.  9,  46,  wher^  it  is  explicitly  ordained  that  the  paschal  Iamb  should 
not  be  dismembered,  and  no  bone  should  be  broken. 


30  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

stances  (used  as  fuel)  need  not  (have  time  until  the  fire  catches) 
the  greater  part — viz. :  pitch,  sulphur,  cheese,  and  running  fats. 
In  a  Boraitha  it  was  taught  that  straw  and  (wood)  shavings 
belong  to  the  same  category.  R.  Johanan  said  that  the  same  is 
the  case  with  fuel  in  Babylon.  What  does  it  mean  ?  Accord- 
ing to  R.  Joseph  bast,  and  according  to  Rami  b.  Aba  branches. 


APPENDIX. 

[Explanatory  to  p.  8,  line  2  (Erubhin,  p.  25).] 

There  is  a  Boraitha  in  addition  to  the  last  Mishna  of  Chap. 
IX.,  ibid.,  p.  226,  as  follows:  "  More  than  this  said  R.  Jehudah: 
'  He  who  has  two  houses,  one  on  each  side  of  public  ground, 
may  add  to  each  a  beam  or  a  side  beam  (for  a  sign),  and  this 
allows  him  to  carry  things  from  one  house  into  the  other.'  To 
which  the  rabbis  answered  that  such  an  erubh  does  not  suffice 
for  public  ground."  (The  reason  of  R.  Jehudah's  statement  is 
that  biblically  two  partitions  sufifice  to  turn  premises  of  public 
ground  into  private  ground,  with  which  the  rabbis  do  not 
agree.)* 

*  This  Boraitha  was  omitted  in  Tract  Erubhin.  Here,  however,  to  render  the 
above-mentioned  passage  clearer  for  the  reader,  we  deem  it  necessary  to  translate  it. 


CHAPTER  II. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  SABBATH  AND  'haNUKAH  LIGHT. 

MISHNA  /.  :  What  shall  and  what  shall  not  be  used  for 
lighting  (the  Sabbath  light)  ?  The  light  shall  not  be  made  with 
(wicks  of)  cedar  bast,  raw  flax,  silk  fibre,  weeds  growing  upon 
the  \yater,  and  ship-moss.*  Nor  shall  pitch,  wax,  cotton-seed 
oil,  oil  of  rejected  heave-ofTerings,f  fat  from  the  tail  of  a  sheep, 
and  tallow  be  used. 

Nahum  the  Modait  says  melted  tallow  maybe  used  for  light- 
ing; the  schoolmen,  however,  prohibit  melted  and  raw  tallow 
alike. 

GEMARA  :  Rabbin  and  Abayi  were  sitting  before  Rabbanah 
Ne'hemiah,  the  brother  of  the  Exilarch  (after  the  death  of  his 
brother  he  became  Exilarch  under  the  name  Ne'hemiah  the 
Second),  and  they  saw  that  he  was  dressed  in  a  mantle  of 
yufro'^a' (raw  silk).  Said  Rabbin  to  Abayi :  "This  is  called  in 
our  Mishna  kklakh."  X  And  he  answered:  "  In  our  city  it  is 
called  Shira  Peranda  {ferandinis)."  The  same  (Rabbin  and 
Abayi)  happened  to  be  in  the  valley  of  Tamruritha,  and  they 
saw  a  kind  of  willow,  and  Rabbin  said  to  Abayi:  "  This  is  edan 
mentioned  in  our  Mishna";  and  he  rejoined:  "This  is  only 
common  wood;  how  could  a  wick  be  made  of  it  ?  "  He  peeled 
off  one  of  them  and  showed  him  a  kind  of  woolly  substance 
between  the  bark  and  the  stem. 

*  Moss  springing  up  on  the  hulk  or  boards  of  a  ship. 

t  The  text  reads  "  oil  for  burning,"  the  full  explanation  of  which  is  given  in  the 
Talmud  farther  on.  We  have  paraphrased  the  term  to  convey  the  sense  to  the 
English  reader. 

X  The  terms  in  the  Mishna,  with  which  it  must  not  be  lighted,  are  expressed  in  a 
mixture  of  Hebrew,  Greek,  and  Roman  names.  The  Gemara  then  discusses  what  is 
meant  by  the  names,  and,  probably,  some  of  the  Babylonian  Amoraim  did  not 
understand  Greek  or  Roman,  as  is  seen  from  the  fact  that  Rabbin  did  not  know 
of  the  name  metaxa  when  he  saw  it  on  the  body  of  Ne'hemiah,  and  exclaimed  only, 
"  This  is  meant  by  the  expression  khlakh  ";  and  Abayi  answered  in  broken  Roman, 
Paranda.  We,  as  we  have  translated  the  names  into  English,  have  omitted  the 
whole  discussion  in  the  first  edition.  In  this  second  edition,  however,  we  are  dis- 
posed not  to  omit  at  least  the  historical  facts. 


32  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

The  rabbis  taught:  All  that  which  was  prohibited  for  the 
Sabbath  lamp  may  be  used  in  fires  that  are  kept  up  for  heat  or 
even  for  constant  light,  whether  (such  fires  are  built)  upon  the 
ground  or  in  the  hearth ;  as  the  materials  are  prohibited  only 
for  use  as  wicks  for  the  Sabbath  lamp. 

Rabba  said :  The  wicks  which  the  rabbis  forbade  the  use  of 
in  the  Sabbath  lamp  are  prohibited  becau5>e  they  give  a  flicker- 
ing light.  The  oily  substances  were  prohibited  because  they 
do  not  adhere  to  the  wick. 

Abayi  questioned  Rabba:  Would  it  be  permitted  to  mix  oil 
with  these  prohibited  fats  and  then  use  them  for  the  Sabbath 
lamp  ?  Or  is  even  that  prohibited  as  a  precaution  lest  one  use 
those  fats  without  the  addition  of  oil?  Rabba  answered:  It  is 
prohibited.     Why  so  ?     Because  they  do  not  give  a  right  light. 

Abayi  objected  to  him  from  the  following:  "  R.  Simeon  b. 
Gamaliel  said:  'In  my  father's  house  they  wound  the  wick 
around  a  nut  and  lighted  it ' ;  hence  you  see  that  it  may  be 
lighted."  Said  Rabba:  "  Instead  of  contradicting  me  with  the 
saying  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  support  my  view  with  the 
decision  of  the  first  Tana"  (of  our  Mishna).  This  would  not 
do,  as  the  record  of  an  act  is  incontrovertible.  Still  the  record 
of  the  master  remains  contradictory.  The  Mishna  is  not  com- 
plete, and  should  read  thus:  "  If  one  has  wound  a  thing  that 
may  be  used  (as  a  wick)  around  a  thing  that  may  not  be  used, 
he  is  not  permitted  to  light  it.  This  is  the  case  when  the  two 
(substances)  are  to  serve  the  purpose  of  a  wick,  but  if  the  pro- 
hibited substance  is  used  merely  to  support  the  permissible  (the 
combination)  is  allowed,  as  so  said  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  '  In 
my  father's  house,'  "  etc. 

But,  after  all,  it  is  not  so.  Did  not  R.  Beruna  teach  in  the 
name  of  Rabh :  To  melted  tallow  or  fish  fat  one  may  add  some 
oil  and  use  it  for  the  Sabbath  lamp  ?  These  substances  adhere 
to  the  wick  in  themselves.  But  the  rabbis  had  prohibited 
melted  tallow  or  fish  fat  as  a  precaution,  lest  (if  the  melted  sub- 
stance be  allowed)  one  use  it  raw  also  for  light.  Why  did  they 
not  enact  the  prohibition  to  use  these  substances  with  the  ad- 
mixture of  some  oil  as  a  precaution  lest  they  be  used  without 
the  admixture  of  oil  ?  This  itself  is  a  precautionary  measure; 
shall  we  enact  another  as  a  safeguard  to  it  ? 

R.  Huna  said:  The  wicks  and  fats  which  the  sages  have 
prohibited  for  the  Sabbath  lamp  cannot  be  used  for  the  'Hanu- 
kah  lamp  either  on  the  Sabbath  night  or  on  week  nights.     Said 


TRACT    SABBATH.  33 

Rabba:  The  reason  of  R.  Huna's  theory  is  because  he  holds 
that  if  the  ('Hanukah  lamp)  is  extinguished  (by  accident)  it 
must  be  relighted,  and  also  that  its  light  may  be  used  to  work 
by.  R.  Hisda,  however,  maintains  that  it  can  be  fed  (with 
these  fats)  on  week  nights,  but  not  on  the  Sabbath  night.  Bf 
cause  he  holds  that  if  it  is  extinguished,  one  is  not  in  duty 
bound  (to  light  it  again),  and  as  long  as  it  burns  it  may  be  used 
to  work  by. 

R.  Zera  in  the  name  of  R.  Mathna,  according  to  others  in 
the  name  of  Rabh,  said:  The  wicks  and  fats  which  the  sages 
prohibited  for  the  Sabbath  lamp  may  be  used  for  the  'Hanukah 
lamp,  both  during  the  week  and  on  the  Sabbath  night.  Said 
R,  Jeremiah :  The  reason  of  Rabh's  decision  is  because  he  holds 
that  if  it  is  extinguished  he  need  not  relight  it,  and  its  light 
is  prohibited  to  be  used."  The  rabbis  declared  this  before 
Abayi,  in  the  name  of  R.  Jeremiah,  and  he  would  not  accept 
it;  when  Rabbin  came  from  Palestine  he  declared  the  same 
before  Abayi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  and  he  accepted  it  and 
said:  "  Had  I  been  worthy,  I  would  have  accepted  this  teaching 
before." 

It  is  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "If  it  is  extinguished,  it  is 
not  needed  to  relight  it."  Is  this  not  contradicted  by  the  fol- 
lowing: "  The  proper  ordinance  is  for  (the  'Hanukah  light)  to 
last  from  sunset  until  footsteps  are  no  longer  heard  in  the 
street  "  ?*  Does  this  not  mean  that  if  extinguished  it  must  be 
relighted  ?  Nay,  the  time  appointed  is  only  for  the  purpose  of 
determining  when  the  light  is  to  be  lit,  or  a  light  should  be 
made  which  will  last  for  the  appointed  time. 

"  Until  footsteps  are  no  longer  heard,"  etc.  Up  to  what 
time  is  this  ?  Said  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Jo- 
hanan:  "  Up  to  the  time  when  the  steps  of  the  Tarmuditesf 
are  heard  no  more." 

The  rabbis  taught:  The  law  of  'Hanukah  demands  that 
every  man  should  light  one  lamp  for  himself  and  his  household. 
Those  who  seek  to  fulfil  it  well  have  a  lamp  lit  for  every  mem- 
ber of  the  household.  Those  who  seek  to  fulfil  the  law  in  the 
best  possible  manner  should  light  according  to  Beth  Shamai  the 
first  night  eight  flames,  and  every  following  night  one  flame 

*  The  ceasing  of  footsteps  in  Talmudical  language  implies  the  time  when  people 
have  already  retired. 

f  Vendors  of  shavings  and  small  wood,  which  are  bought  for  the  hearth-fire  in 
the  evening. 

VOL.    I.— 3. 


34  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

less.  And  according  to  Beth  Hillel  the  reverse — the  first 
night  one  lamp,  and  be  increased  by  one  on  each  succeeding 
night.  Said  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan: 
"  There  were  two  sages  in  Zidon ;  one  did  according  to  the  de- 
cision of  Shamai's  school,  and  gave  the  reason  that  the  'Hanu- 
kah  lamp  is  to  be  lit  in  the  same  manner  as  the  sacrifices  of  the 
feast  were  offered,*  and  the  other  according  to  the  school  of 
Hillel,  with  the  reason  that  holy  actions  should  show  (emblem- 
ize)  increase  and  not  reduction. 

The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  a  merit  to  put  the  'Hanukah  lamp 
on  the  outside  door  of  the  house ;  and  he  who  lives  in  an  attic 
puts  it  in  a  window  that  opens  into  the  street.  In  time  of 
danger,  however,f  it  is  sufBcient  if  the  lights  are  on  the  table. 
Said  Rabha:  In  the  latter  case  another  light  is  required  to 
work  by;  but  if  there  is  a  hearth-fire  in  the  house,  it  is  not 
necessary.  However,  if  the  man  is  of  high  standing  (and  not 
in  the  habit  of  working  by  the  hearth-light)  he  must  have 
another  lamp. 

What  is  'Hanukah  ?  The  rabbis  taught:  "  On  the  twenty- 
fifth  day  of  Kislev  'Hanukah  commences  and  lasts  eight  days, 
on  which  lamenting  (in  commemoration  of  the  dead)  and  fast- 
ing are  prohibited.  When  the  Hellenists  entered  the  sanctuary, 
they  defiled  all  the  oil  that  was  found  there.  When  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  House  of  Asmoneans  prevailed  and  conquered 
them,  oil  was  sought  (to  feed  the  holy  lamp  in  the  sanctuary) 
and  only  one  vial  was  found  with  the  seal  of  the  high  priest 
intact.  The  vial  contained  sufficient  oil  for  one  day  only,  but 
a  miracle  occurred,  and  it  fed  the  holy  lamp  eight  days  in  suc- 
cession. These  eight  days  were  the  following  year  established 
as  days  of  good  cheer,  on  which  psalms  of  praise  and  acknowl- 
edgment (of  God's  wonders)  were  to  be  recited. 

R.  Kahana  said:  R.  Nathan  b.  Manyomi  in  the  name  of 
R.  Tanhum  lectured:  "  A  'Hanukah  lamp  becomes  disqualified 
if  it  is  put  higher  than  twenty  ells  (from  the  ground),  just  like 
a  Sukkah  (booth)  and  like  the  side  beam  of  an  alley." 

Rabba  said:  The  merit  of  the  'Hanukah  lamp  is  that  it  be 
put  within  a  span  of  the  house  door.  And  on  which  side  ?  R. 
A'ha  b.  Rabha  said  to  the  right,  R.  Samuel  of  Diphti  said  to 

*  The  sacrifices  of  the  Feast  of  Booths  were  decreased  in  number  each  succeeding 
day.     See  Numbers  xxix.  13,  17,  23,  25,  29,  32. 

f  Time  of  danger  is  used  here  to  designate  the  time  when  a  prohibitive  order 
against  lights  is  issued  by  the  local  government. 


TRACT    SABBATH. 


35 


the  left  (of  the  entrance).  And  the  Halakha  prevails  that  it 
should  be  placed  to  the  left  of  the  entrance,  so  that  the  'Hanu- 
kah  light  be  on  one  side  and  the  Mezuzah  *  on  the  other  side  of 
the  door. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  R.  Assi  said :  It  is  not  allowed 
to  count  money  by  the  'Hanukah  light.  When  this  was  cited 
before  Samuel,  he  said:  "  Is  there  any  holiness  in  the  light  ?" 
R.  Joseph  retorted:  Is  there  any  holiness  in  the  blood  of  an 
animal  ?  and  yet  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  It  is 
written:  "Then  shall  pour  out  the  blood  .  .  .  and  cover 
it  "  .  .  .  [Lev.  xvii.  13^  From  this  we  infer  that  he  must 
cover  it  with  the  same  hand  it  was  shed  with,  but  not  with  his 
foot,  in  order  that  the  fulfilment  of  the  commandment  should  not 
be  treated  with  lack  of  reverence.  In  our  case,  too,  the  light  must 
not  be  used  for  anything,  in  order  that  the  compliance  with  an 
ordinance  should  not  evince  a  lack  of  reverence. 

R.  Joshua  b.  Levi  was  questioned :  May  the  fruits,  hung  up 
in  the  Sukkah  for  ornamentation,  be  used  during  the  seven  days 
of  the  feast  ?  He  answered:  Even  to  the  'Hanukah  light  a  law 
was  passed  prohibiting  the  counting  of  money.  Said  R.  Joseph: 
"  Lord  of  Abraham!  "  Here  he  connected  a  law  that  was  en- 
acted (by  the  ancient  masters)  with  one  that  was  not  discussed 
by  them.  The  law  concerning  the  Sukkah  was  biblical,  that 
concerning  'Hanukah  was  not  biblical  but  rabbinical.  There- 
fore said  R.  Joseph :  The  precedent  of  all  these  cases  is  the  law 
concerning  the  blood  (which  was  cited  above). 

It  was  taught:  Rabh  said:  It  is  not  allowed  to  light  one 
'Hanukah  light  with  the  other;  Samuel  permits  this.  Rabh 
prohibited  Tzitzith  (show-threads)  to  be  taken  out  of  one  gar- 
ment and  put  into  another;  Samuel  permits  also  this.  He  also 
said  that  the  Halakha  does  not  prevail  in  accordance  with  R. 
Simeon  regarding  dragging  across  the  floor  (which  will  be  ex- 
plained farther  on);  and  Samuel  maintains  it  does.f 

Said  Abayi:  "  My  master  followed  the  decisions  of  Rabh  in 
all  questions  except  the  three  mentioned  above,  which  he 
decided  according  to  Samuel." 

*  "  Mezuzah,"  door-post,  technical  name  for  the  writing  which  was  to  be  placed 
on  the  door-post  by  the  command  of  Deut.  vi.  9  and  elsewhere.  The  rabbis  decreed 
that  this  was  to  be  placed  to  the  right  of  the  entrance. 

f  The  different  contentions  given  above  may  seem  somewhat  out  of  place  ;  how- 
ever, they  are  cited  merely  to  show  the  differences  of  opinion  existing  among  the 
different  schools  and  sages. 


36  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

One  of  the  rabbis  in  the  presence  of  R.  Ada  b.  Ahba  said: 
"  Rabh's  reason  for  prohibiting  these  acts  was  to  prevent  irrev- 
erence in  the  compHance  with  the  law."  Said  R.  Ada  to  the 
scholars  present:  "  Hear  him  not;  Rabh's  reason  was  to  pre- 
vent stinginess  in  the  fulfilment  of  laws."  And  what  is  the 
difference  between  the  two  ?  It  is  in  the  lighting  of  one  'Hanu- 
kah  lamp  with  another.  He  who  says  that  irreverence  was  the 
reason  cannot  prohibit  this ;  but  he  who  holds  stinginess  to  be 
the  reason,  prohibits  even  this  rightfully. 

How  is  this  question  to  be  decided  ?  Said  R.  Huna  b.  R. 
Joshua:  "  Let  us  see  whether  the  act  of  lighting  the  lamp  con- 
stitutes merit,  or  whether  it  is  the  act  of  putting  it  in  its  proper 
place";  this  question  having  been  already  propounded  by  the 
schoolmen  (the  answer,  when  given,  will  serve  for  the  above 
also). 

Come  then  and  hear  the  following:  R.  Joshua  b.  Levi  says: 
"  A  lantern  (that  was  lit  for  'Hanukah  on  Friday  night)  and 
kept  burning  the  whole  following  day  must,  at  the  close  of  the 
Sabbath,  be  extinguished  and  then  relighted."  Now  if  we  say 
that  the  lighting  constitutes  compliance  with  the  command- 
ment, this  teaching  is  correct ;  but  if  we  say  that  the  placing  of 
the  lamp  in  its  proper  place  constitutes  the  merit,  it  should  be 
said:  "  It  should  be  extinguished,  raised  up,  put  in  its  proper 
place,  and  then  lit."  And  also,  since  we  pronounce  the  bene- 
diction, "  Blessed  art  Thou,  etc.,  who  hast  commanded  us  to 
light  the  'Hanukah  lamp,"  it  becomes  clearly  apparent  the 
lighting  constitutes  compliance.  And  so  it  is.  Now  that  we 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  act  of  lighting  constitutes  the 
merit,  it  is  understood  that  if  this  was  done  by  a  deaf-mute,  an 
idiot,  or  a  minor,  the  act  is  not  valid;  a  woman,  however,  may 
surely  light  it,  as  R.  Joshua  b.  Levi  said:  "  Women  are  in  duty 
bound  to  light  the  'Hanukah  lamp,  for  they  were  included  in 
miracle." 

R.  Shesheth  said :  A  guest  (at  a  stranger's  house)  is  obliged 
to  light  the  'Hanukah  lamp.  Said  R.  Zera:  When  I  was  study- 
ing at  the  school  of  Rabh,  I  contributed  my  share  towards  main- 
taining and  lighting  the  lamp  with  mine  host.  Since  I  am  mar- 
ried, I  say,  I  surely  need  not  light  it  now,  for  it  is  lit  for  me  at 
my  house. 

R.  Joshua  b.  Levi  said:  "  All  fats  are  good  for  the  'Hanukah 
lamp,  but  olive  oil  is  the  best. ' '  Abayi  said  :  ' '  My  master  always 
sought  for  poppy-seed  oil,  because,  said  he,  it  burns  slowly  (and 


TRACT    SABBATH.  37 

the  light  lasts  longer),  but  when  he  heard  the  saying  of  R.  Joshua 
b.  Levi,  he  sought  for  olive  oil,  for  that  gives  a  clearer  light." 

Hyya  b.  Ashi  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  He  who  lights  the 
'Hanukah  lamp  must  pronounce  a  benediction.  R.  Jeremiah 
said :  He  who  perceives  it  must  pronounce  a  benediction.  R. 
Jehudah  said:  He  who  perceives  a  'Hanukah  lamp  on  the  first 
day  must  pronounce  two  benedictions,  and  the  one  that  lights 
it  on  the  first  day,  three;*  after  the  first  day,  the  one  that 
lights  it  must  pronounce  two  benedictions  and  the  one  that 
perceives  it  one. 

What  benediction  would  he  omit  ?  The  benediction  of  time. 
But  why  not  omit  the  benediction  of  the  miracle  ?  Because  the 
miracle  was  continued  every  day  (of  the  eight).  And  what  is 
the  (special)  benediction  ?  "  Blessed  be,  etc.,  who  hallowed  us 
with  His  commands  and  ordained  that  we  shall  light  the  'Hanu- 
kah lamp."  But  where  did  He  ordain  this?  Said  R.  Avya: 
(This  command  is  included  in)  "  Thou  shalt  not  depart,"  etc. 
[Deut.  xvii.  11].  R.  Nehemiah,  however,  from  the  following 
said:  "  Ask  thy  father  and  he  will  tell  thee;  thine  elders,  and 
they  will  inform  thee"  [ibid,  xxxii.  7], 

R.  Huna  said:  A  house  that  has  two  doors  must  have  two 
lamps.  Said  Rabha:  This  is  only  in  case  when  the  two  doors 
are  in  two  different  sides  of  the  house;  but  if  they  both  open  on 
the  same  side  it  is  not  necessary.  Why  so  ?  Because  the  towns- 
men may  pass  by  the  side  which  has  no  lamp  and  suspect  the 
owner  of  the  house  of  not  having  lit  any  at  all.  And  where  is 
it  taken  from  that  one  must  endeavor  to  avoid  suspicion  ?  From 
a  Tosephtha  in  Peah,  Chap.  I.,  which  states  plainly  that  every 
one  must  do  so. 

R.  Isaac  b.  Rediphah  in  the  name  of  R.  Huna  said:  "  A  lamp 
with  two  mouths  (so  that  two  wicks  can  be  lit  in  it)  is  suflficient 
for  two  men." 

Rabha  said:  If  one  has  filled  a  dish  with  oil,  put  wicks  all 
around  the  brim,  and  covered  it  with  a  vessel  (so  that  each  wick 
yields  a  separate  flame),  it  is  sufficient  for  many  persons;  but  if 
he  has  not  covered  it,  he  makes  it  appear  as  one  flame  of  fire, 
and  it  is  not  valid,  even  for  one  person. 

The  same  said  again  :  If  one  (possessing  only  means  enough 


*  The  three  benedictions  here  referred  to  are  :  ist,  for  the  privilege  of  lighting  the 
'Hanukah  lamp  ;  2d,  for  the  miracle  which  the  lamp  commemorates  ;  and  3d,  for  the 
continuance  of  life  until  the  season  of  'Hanukah.  The  second  benediction  is  techni- 
cally designated  as  that  of  the  "  miracle  "  and  the  third  as  that  of  "  time  " 


38  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

to  light  one  lamp)  must  choose  between  using  this  light  for  a 
house-light*  (on  Friday  night)  or  a  'Hanukah  light,  he  should 
use  it  for  a  house-light  in  order  to  preserve  his  domestic  peace. 
If,  again,  his  choice  must  be  between  (purchasing)  the  house- 
light  and  (the  wine  necessary  for  the  celebration)  of  the  holiness 
of  Sabbath,  the  house-light  is  to  be  preferred  and  for  the  same 
reason;  however,  it  is  doubtful  to  me  what  must  be  chosen 
between  the  'Hanukah  light  and  the  goblet  for  qiddush.  When 
one  cannot  afford  both,  which  must  he  prefer  ?"  "Is  the  lat- 
ter to  be  preferred  because  it  is  of  regular  occurrence,  f  or  is  the 
'Hanukah  light  preferable,  in  order  to  proclaim  the  miracle 
(which  it  commemorates)?"  After  deliberating  he  decided 
himself  that  the  proclaiming  of  the  miracle  has  the  preference. 

R.  Huna  said:  He  who  makes  a  practice  of  lighting  many 
lamps  (which  the  law  requires  for  festive  occasions)  will  be 
rewarded  with  scholarly  sons.  He  who  is  particular  about  his 
Mezuzah  will  be  blessed  with  a  fine  dwelling.  He  who  is  par- 
ticular about  his  show-threads  (Tzitziths)  will  be  blessed  with 
fine  garments.  He  who  is  particular  to  pronounce  the  benedic- 
tion of  Sabbath  over  a  goblet  of  wine  shall  live  to  have  his  cellar 
well  stocked. 

R.  Huna  was  wont  to  pass  by  the  house  of  R.  Abbin,  the 
carpenter.  He  noticed  that  the  latter  lit  a  great  many  lamps 
on  the  Sabbath  night.  Said  he:  "  Two  great  men  will  come 
forth  from  this  house."  And  they  were  R.  Jidi  and  R.  Hyya 
b.  Abhin. 

R.  Hisda  was  wont  to  pass  by  the  house  of  the  master  (father 
or  father-in-law)  of  R.  Shezbi ;  he  noticed  many  lights  every 
Sabbath.  Said  he:  "A  great  man  will  come  forth  from  this 
house."     This  great  man  was  R.  Shezbi. 

The  wife  of  R.  Joseph  was  accustomed  to  light  her  (Sab- 
bath) lamp  late.  Said  he  unto  her:  There  is  a  Boraitha:  It 
is  written:  "  The  pillar  of  cloud  did  not  depart  by  day  nor  the 

*  "The  light  for  a  house-light."  The  text  does  not  specify  on  what  night,  but 
Rashi's  commentary  adds  Friday  night,  i.e..  Sabbath  eve.  In  our  opinion  that  is  not 
the  intent  of  Rashi  ;  for  even  on  vi^orkdays  the  light  used  by  the  household  should 
have  preference.  Proof  is  :  the  reason  given  is  for  the  sake  of  domestic  peace  ;  were 
it  only  to  apply  to  Sabbath  eve,  the  reason  given  would  have  been  in  honor  of  the 
.Sabbath. 

f  In  all  the  ordinances  to  be  observed,  the  rabbis  have  adopted  the  rule  that  if 
the  choice  stands  between  one  that  recurs  at  short  intervals  and  one  that  occurs  more 
seldom,  the  former  is  always  to  be  preferred.  ("  Tadir,  vesheaino  tadir,  tadir 
kodom.") 


TRACT    SABBATH.  39 

pillar  of  fire  by  night  "  [Ex.  xiii.  22].  From  this  we  infer  that 
the  two  pillars  always  closely  followed  each  other.  She  then 
wanted  to  light  up  too  early.  Said  a  certain  old  man  to  her: 
"  There  is  another  Boraitha,  however,  that  (whatever  is  to  be 
done)  should  be  done  neither  too  early  nor  too  late." 

Rabha  said:  "  He  who  loves  scholars,  will  have  sons  that 
are  scholars;  he  who  respects  them,  will  have  scholarly  sons-in- 
law  ;  he  who  fears  scholars,  will  become  a  scholar  himself,  and 
if  he  is  not  fit  for  this,  his  words  will  be  respected  like  those  of 
an  ordained  scholar." 

Oil  of  rejected  heave-offering, ' '  etc.  What  is  that  ?  Said 
Rabba:  It  means  oil  of  heave-offering  which  became  defiled.  It 
is  called  oil  for  burning,  because  it  must  be  destroyed  in  fire, 
and  the  Mishna  speaks  here  of  a  Friday  that  happens  to  fall  on 
a  feast  day,  and  the  prohibition  to  light  (the  Sabbath  lamp) 
with  it  is  because  consecrated  things  that  have  been  defiled 
must  not  be  burned  on  a  feast  day.  Said  R.  Hanina  of  Sora: 
"  This  should  be  corrected  in  our  Mishna:  Why  shall  one  not 
make  a  light  with  the  defiled  oil  ?  Because  defiled  things  must 
not  be  burned  on  a  feast  day.  And  so  also  we  have  learned  in 
a  Boraitha:  All  material  which  must  not  be  used  for  lighting  on 
the  Sabbath,  may  be  lit  on  a  feast  day,  save  the  oil  for  burning." 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  Should  the  'Hanukah 
incident  be  mentioned  in  the  benediction  after  meals  ?  Shall 
we  assume  that  because  it  is  rabbinical  it  is  unnecessary  ?  or, 
for  the  sake  of  the  proclamation  of  the  miracle,  it  should  ?  Said 
Rabba  in  the  name  of  R.  S'haura,  quoting  R.  Huna:  "  It  is  not 
necessary ;  however,  if  one  wishes  to  do  it,  he  should  incorpo- 
rate it  in  the  thanksgiving  part." 

R.  Hunah  b.  Jehudah  visited  the  house  of  Rabha.  He  was 
about  to  mention  it  in  (the  prayer  part  under  the  heading  of) 
"  the  One  who  builds  up  Jerusalem."  Said  R.  Shesheth:  Nay; 
it  should  be  mentioned  in  the  thanksgiving  part  of  the  benedic- 
tion after  the  meal,  as  it  is  mentioned  in  the  same  part  in  the 
prayer  of  the  eighteen  benedictions.* 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  Should  the  New- 
Moon  day  be  mentioned  in  the  benediction  after  meals  ?  Shall 
we  assume  that  the  New-Moon  day  is  more  important  than 
'Hanukah  because  its  observation  is  enjoined  in  the  Scriptures, 

*  The  principal  elements  of  all  Hebrew  prayers  are  :  ist,  Shebhah,  i.e.,  praise  ; 
2d,  Hodayah,  j.^.,  thanksgiving  ;  3d,  Tephilah,  i.^.,  prayer;  and  4th,  Ta'hanun,  ».^., 
propitiation. 


40  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

or  need  it  not  be  mentioned  because  manual  labor  is  not  pro- 
hibited on  that  day?  Rabh  maintains  it  may;  R.  Hanina 
maintains  it  may  not.  Said  R.  Zerika:  "  Hold  to  Rabh's  opin- 
ion, for  R.  Oshia  holds  to  the  same;  as  R.  Oshia  taught:  On 
the  days  on  which  additional  sacrifices  (Musaph)  are  offered  in 
the  sanctuary,  like  New-Moon  days  and  the  middle  days  of  a 
feast,  one  must  at  evening,  morning,  and  afternoon  services 
recite  the  regular  eighteen  benedictions  and  insert  in  the  thanks- 
giving part  of  the  day's  service  a  passage  referring  to  the  sub- 
ject of  the  day.  And  if  he  has  failed  to  do  so,  he  should  be 
made  to  repeat  them ;  however,  no  benediction  over  a  goblet  of 
wine,  though  a  remembrance  of  their  significance  must  be  made 
in  the  prayer  after  meals.  On  days  requiring  no  additional  sac- 
rifice, like  the  first  Monday,  Thursday  and  Monday  (after  a  bibli- 
cal feast),  fast  days,  and  the  days  (devoted  to  prayer  by)  com- 
moners,* one  must  recite  the  eighteen  benedictions  at  evening, 
morning,  and  afternoon  services,  and  insert  a  paragraph  refer- 
ring to  the  subject  of  the  day  in  the  prayer  division ;  and  if  he 
forgot  the  latter  he  need  not  repeat  them,  nor  any  remembrance 
of  them  in  the  benediction  after  meals.  The  Halakha,  however, 
does  not  prevail  with  all  that  was  said  above.  It  remains  as 
decreed  by  R.  Joshua  b.  Levi:  If  the  Day  of  Atonement  hap- 
pens to  fall  on  a  Sabbath  day,  mention  of  the  Sabbath  must  be 
made  even  in  the  Neilah  prayer  (the  last  of  the  four  different 
prayers  of  the  Day  of  Atonement).  Why  so  ?  Because  the 
Sabbath  and  the  Day  of  Atonement  are  now  one,  and  four 
prayers  are  indispensable  to  the  services  of  the  day. 

MISHNA  //. :  The  lamp  used  on  a  (biblical)  feast-night 
shall  not  be  fed  with  oil  of  rejected  heave-offerings.  R.  Ishmael 
said:  The  Sabbath  lamp  shall  not  be  fed  with  tar,  out  of  honor 
for  the  Sabbath.  The  sages,  however,  allow  all  fatty  substances 
for  this  purpose:  poppy-seed  oil,  nut  oil,  fish  oil,  radish  oil, 
wild-gourd  oil,  tar,  and  naphtha.  R.  Tarphin  said :  It  shall  be 
lighted  with  nothing  but  olive  oil. 

GEMARA :"  R.  Ishmael  said, ' '  etc.  Why  so  ?  Said  Rabha : 
Because  it  emits  a  bad  odor  (and  the  Tana  prohibits  it)  as  a  pre- 

*  A  division  of  the  people  had  always  to  be  present  at  the  temple  to  witness  the 
services.  The  men  of  such  a  division  were  called  "  commoners  "  because  there  was 
a  special  place  assigned  to  them  in  the  temple.  All  of  them  not  being  able  to  attend, 
they  sent  their  delegates  to  represent  them,  but  they  assembled  in  their  various  cities 
and  villages  to  perform  their  devotion.  The  days  on  which  this  was  done  were  desig- 
nated as  those  of  "  commoners  " — "  Ma'amadoth."     See  Mishna,  Ta'anith. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  41 

caution,  lest  one  light  it  and  leave  the  house.  Said  Abayi:  Let 
him  go  (what  harm  is  there  in  that  ?).  Rejoined  Rabha :  Be- 
cause I  hold  that  the  Sabbath  light  is  a  duty,  as  R.  Na'hman  b. 
R.  Zabda  or  b.  Rabha  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh.  The  (enjoy- 
ment of)  Sabbatli  light  is  an  obligation.  The  washing  of  hands 
and  feet  in  warm  water  toward  evening  (on  Friday)  is  optional. 
And  I  say  it  is  a  meritorious  act.  Why  so  ?  Because  R.  Jehudah 
said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  It  was  the  custom  of  R.  Jehudah 
bar  Ilayi  to  bathe  his  face,  hands,  and  feet  in  warm  water,  that 
was  brought  to  him  in  a  trough  every  Friday  toward  evening; 
after  that  he  wrapped  himself  in  a  pallium  with  Tzitzith  (show- 
threads)  and  thus  assumed  an  angelic  appearance." 

It  is  written:  "  My  soul  was  deprived  of  peace"  [Lam.  iii. 
17].  What  does  this  mean  ?  Said  R.  Abuhu  :  It  means  (being 
deprived  of  the  pleasure  of)  lighting  the  Sabbath  lamp.  "  I 
forgot  the  good"  [ibid.].  What  does  this  mean?  Said  R. 
Jeremiah :  This  refers  to  (the  deprivation  of)  a  bath.  R.  Johanan, 
however,  said :  It  refers  to  the  washing  of  hands  and  feet  with 
warm  water.  R.  Isaac  of  Naph'ha  said:  It  refers  to  a  good  bed 
and  comfortable  bedding.  R.  Aba  said  :  It  refers  to  an  arranged 
bed  and  an  elegantly  robed  wife  for  scholarly  men. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "Who  may  consider  himself  rich?" 
One  who  enjoys  his  riches,  is  the  opinion  of  R.  Meir.  R.  Tar- 
phon  says:  He  who  has  a  hundred  fields,  a  hundred  vineyards, 
and  a  hundred  slaves  at  work  in  them.  R.  Aqiba  said :  He  who 
has  a  wife  adorned  with  good  virtues.  R.  Jose  said  :  He  who 
has  a  place  for  man's  necessity  in  his  house.* 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said : 
"The  Sabbath  lamp  shall  not  be  fed  with  aromatic  balsam." 
Why  so  ?  Rabba  said  :  Because  it  yields  a  fine  fragrance,  it  was 
feared  lest  one  use  it  (taking  it  out  while  the  lamp  is  burning). 
Said  Abayi  to  him :  "  Why  does  not  the  master  say  because  it 
is  volatile  ?"  Aye,  he  means  this  and  the  other  also;  the  bal- 
sam is  prohibited  because  it  is  volatile,  and  also  for  fear  lest  it 
be  used. 

There  was  a  mother-in-law  who  hated  her  son's  wife,  and  told 
her  to  perfume  herself  with  aromatic  oil.  When  the  daughter- 
in-law  had  done  this,  she  ordered  her  to  go  and  light  the  candle. 
While  complying  with  this  order,  she  caught  fire  and  was  burned. 

The  rabbis  taught:    A  lamp   shall  not  be  fed  with  defiled 

*  Toilet  rooms  were  not  in  vogue  at  that  time,  and  for  their  necessity  they  had  to 
go  far  out  into  the  field  or  forest. 


42  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

"  Tebhel  "  *  even  on  week  days,  and  the  less  so  on  the  Sab- 
bath. In  a  similar  manner,  white  naphtha  shall  not  be  used  to 
feed  a  lamp  with  on  week  days,  much  less  on  Sabbath,  because 
it  is  volatile. 

In  the  Boraitha  it  was  said  that  aromatic  balsam  shall  not  be 
used ;  so  also  did  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  teach :  Aromatic  balsam 
is  nothing  but  resin,  that  comes  forth  from  aromatic  trees. 

R.  Ishmael  said:  The  (Sabbath)  lamp  shall  not  be  fed  with 
anything  that  comes  from  the  trunk  of  a  tree.  R.  Ishmael  b. 
Beroqa  said:  It  shall  be  lighted  only  with  such  substances  as 
come  from  fruit.  R.  Tarphon,  however,  said:  It  shall  be  fed 
only  with  olive  oil.  R.  Johanan  b.  Nuri  then  arose  and  said: 
"  What  shall  the  people  of  Babylonia  do,  who  have  nothing  but 
poppy-seed  oil  ?  What  shall  the  people  of  Media  do,  who  have 
nothing  but  nut  oil  ?  What  shall  the  people  of  Alexandria  do, 
who  have  nothing  but  radish  oil  ?  and  what  shall  the  people  of 
Cappadocia  do,  who  have  no  oil  of  any  kind,  nothing  but  tar  ? " 
Nay ;  we  have  no  choice  but  to  accept  the  decree  of  the  masters 
as  to  substances  which  should  not  be  used.  Even  fish  oil  and 
resin  may  be  used.  R.  Simeon  Shezori  said  :  Oil  of  wild  gourds 
and  naphtha  may  be  used.  Symmachos  said:  No  animal  fat  save 
fish  oil  may  be  used. 

MISHNA  ///. :  No  substance  that  comes  from  a  tree  shall 
be  used  (as  a  wick)  save  flax.  In  like  manner  no  substance  that 
comes  from  a  tree  becomes  defiled  when  serving  as  a  tent  (in 
which  a  dead  body  lies)  save  flax. 

GEMARA:  Whence  do  we  know  that  flax  is  called  a  tree  ? 
Said  Mar  Zutra:  From  what  is  written:  "  She  took  them  up  to 
the  roof,  and  hid  them  in  the  flax  trees  "  [Josh.  ii.  6], 

"  No  substance,  etc.,  save  flax.''  Whence  is  this  deduced  ? 
Said  R.  Elazar:  From  the  analogy  of  expressions"  tent,"  which 
is  mentioned  in  the  case  of  the  tabernacle,  and  in  the  case  of 
death  [Ex.  xl.  19  and  Numb.  xix.  14].  As  the  tent  of  the 
tabernacle  was  made  only  of  flax,  so  also  in  our  case,  if  a  tent 
is  made  of  flax  only,  it  is  also  called  a  tent,  and  is  liable  to 
become  defiled. 

MISHNA  IV. :  A  piece  of  cloth  that  was  rolled  together, 
but  not  singed,  said  R.  Eliezer,  becomes  defiled  (when  it  is  in 
the  same  tent  with  a  dead  body),  and  shall  not  be  used  (as  a 


*  "  Tebhel "  is  the  designation  of  the  produce  of  the  field  and  the  garden  from 
which  the  Levitical  gifts  or  tithes  were  not  separated. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  43 

wick)  for  Sabbath.  R.  Aqiba,  however,  said:  It  remains  pure 
and  may  be  used. 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  point  of  their  differing?  Said 
R.  Elazar  in  the  name  of  R.  Oshia,  and  so  also  said  R.  Ada  b. 
Ahba:  The  piece  of  cloth  in  question  is  exactly  three  fingers 
square,  and  the  lighting  is  to  be  done  on  a  feast  day,  which 
happens  on  a  Friday.  All  agree  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah, 
who  said  that  (on  a  feast  day)  fire  may  be  made  with  good  cloth 
(or  vessels),  but  not  with  such  as  have  been  spoiled  (the  same 
day).  Again,  all  agree  with  the  opinion  of  Ula,  who  said  that 
the  lighting  must  be  on  the  largest  part  of  the  wick  that  pro- 
trudes from  the  lamp.  Now  R.  Eliezer  holds  that  the  rolling 
up  (of  the  piece  of  cloth)  does  not  improve  the  positicA  {i.e.,  it 
is  still  an  object  to  which  the  term  "  cloth  "  or  vessel  applies); 
as  soon  as  it  is  slightly  burned  it  becomes  spoiled  material;  fire, 
being  applied  further,  is  naturally  generated  with  spoiled  mate- 
rial (which  is  prohibited).  R.  Aqiba,  on  the  other  hand,  holds 
that  folding  does  improve  the  condition  and  the  cloth  is  no 
longer  a  vessel ;  hence  he  puts  fire  to  a  simple  piece  of  wood 
(which  is  allowed). 

Rabha,  however,  said:  The  reason  of  R.  Eliezer's  (pro- 
hibition) is  that  the  Sabbath  lamp  is  not  allowed  to  be  lighted 
with  a  wick  or  rag  that  has  not  been  singed. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  Fire  may  be  made 
(on  a  feast  day)  with  vessels,  but  not  with  broken  vessels.  So 
is  the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah.  R.  Simeon  permits  it.  Fire  may 
be  made  with  dates,  but  after  having  eaten  them  fire  is  not  to 
be  fed  with  their  granum.  A  fire  may  be  made  with  nuts,  but 
after  having  eaten  the  kernel  one  must  not  feed  the  fire  with  the 
shells,  according  to  R.  Jehudah;  R.  Simeon,  however,  permits 
both. 

The  statement  credited  to  Rabh  in  the  foregoing  paragraph 
was  not  made  by  him  plainly,  but  was  merely  implied  from  the 
following  act.  While  in  Palestine,  one  day  Rabh  was  eating 
dates  and  threw  the  pits  into  the  fireplace,  upon  which  R. 
Hyya  said  to  him:  "  Descendant  of  nobles,  on  a  (biblical)  feast 
day  this  would  be  prohibited !  "  Did  Rabh  accept  this  or  not  ? 
Come  and  hear.  While  in  Babylonia,  one  feast  day  Rabh  was 
eating  dates  and  threw  the  pits  to  some  cattle  (for  food). 
Must  we  not  assume  that  these  dates  belonged  to  the  class 
known  as  "  Parsiassa  "  (a  ripe,  delicious,  free-stone  fruit),  and 
if   Rabh  fed  cattle  with  the  pits  of  this  fruit,  it  was  because 


44  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

they  may  be  used  for  fuel  also,  and  thus  the  statement  of  R. 
Hyya  is  contradicted  ?  Nay;  it  may  be  the  pits  that  fed  the 
cattle  by  Rabh  were  from  dates  known  as  "  Armiassa "  (an 
inferior  fruit,  the  pits  of  which  cling  to  the  meat).  The  pits 
of  this  latter  class  of  dates,  in  consequence  of  the  meat  still 
clinging  to  them,  are  regarded  as  dates  themselves,  and  may  be 
handled  on  the  Sabbath.  Hence  it  is  obvious  that  they  may 
also  be  fed  to  cattle,  and  Rabh  therefore  does  not  contradict 
R.  Hyya. 

MISHNA  v.:  One  shall  not  bore  a  hole  in  an  egg-shell,  fill 
it  with  oil,  and  put  it  upon  the  (Sabbath)  lamp,  so  that  the  oil 
drip  into  it;  and  even  if  it  was  a  clay  one.  R.  Jehudah  permits 
it.  If,  however,  the  potter  had  attached  it  to  the  lamp  when 
he  made  it,  it  is  allowed  to  do  this,  for  (together  with  the  lamp) 
it  forms  one  vessel.  A  man  shall  not  fill  a  dish  with  oil,  put  it 
beside  the  lamp,  and  dip  the  (unlighted)  end  of  the  wick  into  it, 
in  order  that  it  should  draw.      R.  Jehudah  permits  also  this. 

GEMARA:  "  If  the  potter  had  attached  it,''  etc.  A  Bo- 
raitha  in  addition  to  it  states:  If  he  himself  has  attached  it  with 
mortar  or  clay,  it  is  allowed.  Does  not  our  Mishna  say  "  the 
potter  "  (from  which  it  may  be  inferred  that  if  the  owner  did  it, 
is  it  not  allowed  for  use)  ?  Nay;  "  the  potter"  means  in  the 
manner  of  the  potter. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  Once  we 
kept  Sabbath  in  the  attic  of  Beth  Nitza  in  Lydda.  We  pro- 
cured an  egg-shell,  filled  it  with  oil,  and  placed  it  on  the  lamp. 
R.  Tarphon  and  the  aged  scholars  were  there,  and  they  made 
no  objection  to  our  action."  They  answered  him  :  "  Wilt  thou 
prove  by  this  (that  this  is  allowed)  ?  Beth  Nitza  is  quite  a  dif- 
ferent case,  for  the  men  there  were  very  careful." 

Abhin  of  Ziphoris  dragged  a  chair  (along  the  floor  on  a  Sab- 
bath) in  the  marble  hall  in  the  presence  of  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Elazar. 
Said  the  latter:  "  If  I  should  be  silent  toward  thee  (although 
this  floor  being  marble,  no  depression  can  be  made  by  the  chair, 
and  thou  art  not  guilty  of  wrongdoing)  as  the  colleagues  were 
silent  toward  R.  Jehudah,  my  silence  might  be  misconstrued 
(and  people  might  think  that  this  can  be  done  on  any  floor; 
therefore  I  say  that)  this  is  prohibited  in  the  marble  hall  as  a 
precautionary  measure,  lest  one  do  it  in  any  other  hall."  The 
head  man  of  the  assembly  room  of  Bazra  dragged  a  chair  in  the 
presence  of  Jeremiah  the  Great.  Said  the  latter  to  him:  "  Ac- 
cording to  whose  decision  dost  thou  this  ?  "     "  According  to  R. 


TRACT   SABBATH. 


45 


Simeon."  "  R.  Simeon,  however,  allowed  large  things  only 
(to  be  dragged)  if  they  could  not  be  lifted ;  but  we  have  never 
heard  from  him  that  he  would  allow  this  also  with  small  ones  ? " 
This  teaching,  however,  differs  with  Ulla's  theory,  who  says  the 
dispute  was  only  concerning  small  things,  for  as  to  large  ones 
there  was  no  objection  from  any  one. 

MISHNA  VI.  :  If  one  extinguishes  a  lamp  because  he  is 
afraid  of  the  officers  of  the  government,*  or  of  robbers,  or  of  an 
evil  spirit, t  or  in  order  that  a  sick  person  may  be  able  to  sleep, 
he  is  free.  If  he  does  this,  however,  to  prevent  damage  to  the 
lamp,  or  to  save  the  oil  or  the  wick,  he  is  culpable.  R.  Jose 
declares  the  man  free  even  in  the  latter  cases,  excepting  (if  he 
extinguished  the  lamp  to  save  the  wick),  for  in  that  case  he 
caused  a  cinder  to  be  formed. 

GEMARA :  From  the  fact  that  the  second  part  of  the  Mishna 
declares  the  man  (who  had  extinguished  the  lamp  to  prevent 
damage,  etc.)  culpable,  it  is  evident  that  this  regulation  was 
made  by  R.  Jehudah.:j;  Now,  how  is  the  first  part  to  be  under- 
stood ?  If  it  speaks  of  a  sick  person,  whose  illness  is  danger- 
ous, it  should  not  say  (that  the  man  who  extinguishes  the  lamp 
to  afford  him  rest)  is  "  free,"  but  should  say  that  he  is  "  allowed 
to  do  it  "  (even  intentionally).  And  if  it  speaks  of  one  whose 
illness  is  not  dangerous,  (the  one  who  extinguished  the  lamp  for 
him)  ought  to  be  declared  in  duty  bound  to  bring  a  sin-offering  ? 
Of  a  verity,  the  Tana  speaks  of  a  case  of  dangerous  illness,  and 
should  have  said  "  it  is  allowed  to  do  so,"  but  he  used  the  term 
"  free  "  merely  (for  the  sake  of  euphony),  because  in  the  latter 
part  (of  the  Mishna)  the  expression  "  culpable  "  was  necessary; 
therefore  he  taught  in  the  first  part  of  the  Mishna,  also  free. 
But  have  we  not  learned,  R.  Oshia  said,  that  "  in  order  that 
a  sick  person  may  be  able  to  sleep,  one  should  not  extinguish 
(the  lamp  on  the  Sabbath);  and  if  he  did  so  he  is  not  held  cul- 
pable, though  it  is  not  allowed  (to  be  done  intentionally)"  ? 
The  teaching  of  R.  Oshia  refers  to  sickness  that  is  not  danger- 
ous, and  is  in  accord  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon. 

The  question,  "  Is  it  allowed  to  extinguish  a  lamp  for  the 

*  Like  the  Persians,  says  Rashi,  who  had  certain  nights  on  which  they  allowed 
no  lights  to  burn  anywhere  but  in  their  sacred  shrines. 

f  The  evil  spirit  here  referred  to  is  explained  by  the  commentators  to  mean  "  mel- 
ancholia." 

X  The  inference  is  made  on  the  strength  of  a  rule  laid  down  by  R.  Jehudah  else- 
where, that  every  unintentional  breach  of  the  Sabbath,  which  is  made  not  out  of  per- 
sonal necessity  or  habit,  must  be  atoned  for  by  a  sin-offering.     (Rashi.) 


46  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

sake  of  a  sick  person  on  the  Sabbath?"  was  propounded  to 
Tan'hum  of  Navi. 

He  began  thus:*  "  O  thou  Solomon!  Where  is  thy  wis- 
dom ?  Where  is  thy  folly  ?  Thy  words  contradict  not  only  the 
words  of  thy  father,  but  also  thine  own  utterance.  Thy  father 
David  said,  *  The  dead  do  not  praise  God  '  [Ps.  cxv.  17],  and 
thou  sayest, '  I  praise  the  dead  that  died  long  ago  '  [Eccl.  iv.  2], 
and  then  again,  *  A  living  dog  fareth  better  than  a  dead  lion  ' 
[ibid.  ix.  4].  [This  presents  no  difficulty.  That  which  David 
said,  *  The  dead  do  not  praise  God, '  means  this :  One  must  always 
occupy  himself  with  study  and  with  meritorious  acts  before  his 
death ;  for  as  soon  as  he  dies  he  is  free  of  both,  and  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  receives  no  more  praise  from  him.  And 
the  saying  of  Solomon,  '  I  praise  the  dead,'  etc.,  means:  When 
Israel  sinned  in  the  desert,  Moses  stood  up  before  the  Lord  and 
offered  many  prayers  and  propitiating  invocations;  but  he  re- 
ceived no  answer.  As  soon,  however,  as  he  said:  '  Remember 
Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Israel,  Thy  servants'  [Ex.  xxxii.  13],  he 
was  answered  forthwith.  Now  did  not  Solomon  say  well:  '  I 
praise  the  dead  that  have  died  long  ago  '  ?  In  another  way  (this 
can  be  explained  as  follows) :  The  custom  is,  if  a  man  of  flesh 
and  blood  issues  a  decree,  it  is  doubtful  whether  the  people  will 
comply  with  it  or  not.  If  they  comply  with  it  while  he  lives 
they  may  disregard  it  after  his  death.  Moses,  our  master,  on 
the  other  hand,  has  issued  many  decrees  and  established  many 
enactments,  which  stand  unshaken  forever  and  aye.  Now,  did 
not  Solomon  say  well:  '  I  praise  the  dead,'  etc.?  Another  ex- 
planation to  the  above  verse  may  refer  to  the  following  legend, 
which  was  told  by  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  It  is  writ- 
ten [Psalms,  Ixxxvi.  17]:  '  Display  on  me  a  sign  for  good,  that 
those  who  hate  me  may  see  it,  and  be  ashamed.'  So  said  David 
before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He :  *  Lord  of  the  Universe, 
forgive  me  the  certain  sin  (with  Bath-Sheba',  II  Samuel,  xi. 
3).  And  the  Lord  said:  '  It  is  forgiven.'  He  prayed  again: 
'  Display  on  me  a  sign  to  make  it  known.'  And  the  Lord  said: 
'  This  will  not  be  done  while  you  are  alive,  but  it  will  be  made 
known  in  the  time  of  your  son  Solomon.'  After  Solomon  had 
built  the  Temple  and  was  about  to  enter  the  ark  into  the  Holy 
of  Holiness,  the  doors  shut.     Solomon  had  prayed  twenty-four 

*  This  apparently  far-fetched  introduction  to  an  answer  to  a  question  of  religious 
legalism  illustrates  most  beautifully  how  the  ethical  principle  predominated  in  the 
rabbinical  discussions. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  47 

prayers  with  song,  and  was  not  answered.  He  then  began 
[Psalms,  xxiv.  7] :  'Be  raised  wide  ...  and  let  the  King 
of  Glory  enter! '  The  doors  then  ran  after  him  and  wanted  to 
swallow  him,  saying:  '  Who  is  the  King  of  Glory?'  And  he 
said  :  '  The  Lord  strong  and  mighty. '  He  then  said  :  [ibid.,  ibid. 
9,  10].  And  still  was  not  answered.  Then  he  said  [II  Chron. 
vi.  42] :  '  O  Lord  God !  .  .  .  remember  the  pious  deeds  of 
David  thy  servant ' ;  he  was  answered  at  once,  and  the  faces  of 
his  enemies  became  as  black  as  the  outside  of  a  pot ;  and  Israel 
and  all  the  people  were  then  certain  that  the  above-mentioned 
sin  was  forgiven  to  David.  Hence  did  not  Solomon  say  well: 
'  I  praise  the  dead,'  etc. ?  And  this  is  what  is  written  [I  Kings, 
viii.  66] :  '  On  the  eighth  day  .  .  .  and  they  went  unto 
their  tents  joyful,'  etc.]  And  as  to  the  above  question,*  I  say 
this:  A  lamp  is  called  '  Ner,'  and  the  soul  of  man  is  called 
'  Ner.'f  Let  rather  the  Ner  which  man  has  made  (the  lamp) 
be  extinguished,  than  the  '  Ner '  (the  soul)  which  belongs  to  the 
Holy  One,  blessed  is  He." 

It  was  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  The  sages  wanted  to  con- 
ceal the  Book  of  Ecclesiastes  because  of  its  contradictory  say- 
ings. And  it  was  not  so  done,  because  it  begins  with  sound 
religious  teachings  and  ends  with  similar  teachings.  It  begins 
with  the  words:  "  What  profit  hath  man  by  all  his  toil  under 
the  sun?"  [Eccl.  i.  3].  Whereupon  the  school  of  R.  Janai 
said,  "  Under  the  sun  "  there  is  no  profit,  but  there  surely  is 
"  beyond i)\Q  sun."  And  it  ends  with  the  words:  "  The  conclu- 
sion of  the  matter  is,  Fear  God  and  observe  his  commands,  for 
this  is  all  (there  is)  for  man  "  [Eccl.  xii.  13].  What  does  it  mean? 
Said  R.  Elazar:  (It  means)  the  whole  world  was  created  only 
for  the  sake  of  his  fear  of  God.  R,  Aba  b.  Kahana  said :  The 
God-fearing  man  outweighs  (in  importance)  the  whole  world. 
Simeon  b.  Azai,  others  say  b.  Zoma,  said :  The  whole  world 
was  created  only  to  provide  him  with  assistance. 

"  I  praise  mirth  "  [Eccl.  viii.  15].  This  means  the  righteous 
man  rejoices  when  he  performs  a  meritorious  act.  "  And  of  joy, 
what  doth  this  do  ?  "  [Eccl.  ii.  2]  alludes  to  rejoicing  that  comes 
not  through  a  Heaven-pleasing  deed.  This  teaches  that  the 
divine  presence  (Shekhina)  comes  not  by  sadness,  by  indolence, 

*  The  liberality  of  the  rabbinical  law  is  evinced  by  the  fact  that  it  regards  an  act 
done  for  the  sake  of  alleviating  sufferings  on  the  Sabbath  day  not  wrongful.  Every 
comfort  may  and  should  be  provided  for  the  sick  on  the  Sabbath  day, 

f  "  Ner"  is  the  Hebrew  word  for  candle  ;  the  soul  is  the  candle  of  God. 


48  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

by  hilarity,  by  levity,  by  gossip,  or  by  senseless  talk,  but 
through  rejoicing  in  a  meritorious  deed;  as  it  is  written:  "  Now 
bring  me  a  minstrel ;  and  when  the  minstrel  played,  the  power  of 
the  Lord  was  upon  him  "  [II  Kings,  iii.  15].  Rabba  said:  The 
same  (should  be  done)  in  order  to  enjoy  good  dreams.  R.  Jehu- 
dah  says:  The  same  (should  be  done)  to  predispose  one's  self 
for  legislative  work,  as  Rabba  did:  Before  commencing  to  ex- 
pound a  Halakha  he  introduced  it  with  a  simile  and  caused  the 
masters  to  become  joyful;  afterward,  he  sat  down  in  the  fear  of 
the  Lord  and  began  to  expound  the  Halakha. 

It  was  taught  that  in  the  same  time  they  also  wanted  to  con- 
ceal the  Book  of  Proverbs  on  account  of  its  contradictory  say. 
ings.  And  it  was  not  done,  because,  they  said:  "  Have  we  not 
scrutinized  the  Book  of  Ecclesiastes  and  found  the  meaning  (of 
its  contradictory  sayings)  ?  Let  us  then  search  deeply  here  (in 
the  Book  of  Proverbs)  also." 

Which  are  the  contradictory  sayings  ?  It  says:  "  Answer 
not  the  fool  according  to  his  folly"  [Prov.  xxvi.  4];  and  then 
again:  "  Answer  the  fool  in  his  folly  "  [ibid.  v.  5].  Yet  this  is 
no  contradiction;  the  latter  refers  to  a  subject  of  learning,  the 
former  saying  to  a  subject  of  indifferent  talk.  How  is  the  sub- 
ject of  learning  here  to  be  understood  ?  In  the  following  man- 
ner. R.  Gamaliel  lectured:  In  the  future,  woman  will  bear  a 
child  every  day,  for  thus  it  is  written:  "  She  conceived  and 
gave  birth  at  a  time"  [Jer.  xxxi.  7].  A  disciple  laughed  at 
this  and  said :  "  There  is  no  new  thing  under  the  sun  "  [Eccl.  i. 
9].  Said  R.  Gamaliel:  Come,  I  will  show  thee  such  a  thing  in 
the  world ;  and  he  showed  him  a  hen.  The  same  rabbi  lectured  : 
In  the  future  trees  will  bear  every  day,  for  it  is  written:  "  It 
will  produce  branches  and  bear  fruit  "  [Ezek.  xvii.  23].  "  As 
branches  are  produced  for  every  day,  so  also  will  fruit  be 
brought  forth  every  day."  Again  the  disciple  laughed  and 
said:  "  There  is  no  new  thing  under  the  sun."  Said  the  master 
to  him:  "  Come,  I  will  show  thee  a  thing  of  this  kind  in  the 
world;  and  he  showed  him  a  caper  tree."  He  lectured  also: 
"  The  land  of  Israel  will  in  the  future  produce  ready  cakes  and 
garments,"  explaining  the  first  part  of  verse  16  of  Psalm  Ixxii. 
to  that  effect. 

The  disciple  again  laughed  at  him ;  but  he  showed  him  that 
ready  meats  are  produced  in  the  shape  of  mushrooms,  and  ready 
garments  grow  in  the  shape  of  many-colored  fibres  that  cover 
the  young  date  trees. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  49 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  man  should  always  be  as  modest  as 
Hillel,  and  not  as  impulsive  as  Shamai.  It  once  happened  that 
two  men  laid  a  wager  of  four  hundred  zuz,  which  would  be  won 
by  him  who  could  provoke  Hillcl  to  anger,  but  lost  if  he  failed 
in  the  attempt.  This  happened  on  Friday,  while  the  sage  was 
bathing  his  head.  The  man  who  undertook  the  task  went  to 
Hillel's  door  and  cried:  "  Who  is  Hillel  here  ?  Who  is  Hillel 
here?"*  The  rabbi  threw  a  mantle  over  his  shoulders  and 
went  out  to  meet  him.  "  What  desirest  thou,  my  son  ? "  he 
asked.  "  I  have  a  question  to  ask,"  the  man  replied.  "  Ask, 
my  son,  ask,"  said  the  rabbi.  "  Why  are  the  Babylonians 
round-headed  ?"  asked  the  man.  "  This  is  an  important  ques- 
tion, my  son.  The  reason  is  that  they  have  no  skilled  midwives 
in  Babylon,"  answered  Hillel.  An  hour  later  the  man  came 
again  calling:  "Who  is  Hillel  here?  Who  is  Hillel  here?" 
The  rabbi  came  out  again  and  said:  "  What  desirest  thou,  my 
son?"  "  I  have  a  question  to  ask,"  the  man  said.  "Ask, 
my  son,  ask,"  said  Hillel.  "  Why  have  the  Tarmudites  oval 
eyes?"  "This  is  a  very  important  question,  my  son.  (The 
Tarmudites)  live  in  a  sandy  land  and  must  always  keep  "their 
eyes  half  closed."  An  hour  later  the  man  came  again  in  his 
insolent  manner,  and  said  again  that  he  had  a  question  to  ask. 
Hillel  in  his  quiet  manner  again  encouraged  him.  "  Why  do 
the  Africans  have  large  feet  ? "  he  asked.  "  Because  they  live 
in  a  swampy  land,"  answered  Hillel.  "  I  have  many  more 
questions  to  ask,  but  I  am  afraid  lest  thou  get  angry,"  con- 
tinued the  man.  Hillel  wrapped  himself  in  his  mantle  and  sat 
down,  saying:  "  Ask,  my  son,  all  the  questions  thou  desirest." 
"  Art  thou  Hillel,  who  is  titled  a  prince  in  Israel  ? "  asked  the 
man.  "  Yes,  my  son,"  answered  the  rabbi.  "  If  thou  art  the 
man,  may  there  not  be  many  like  thee  in  Israel  ? "  "  Why  so, 
my  son  ? "  "  Because  thou  makest  me  lose  four  hundred  zuz." 
Said  Hillel  to  him:  "Take  care  of  thy  temper.  A  Hillel  is 
worthy  that  twice  that  amount  be  lost  through  him;  a  Hillel 
must  not  get  excited." 

The  rabbis  taught.  A  Gentile  once  came  before  Shamai  and 
asked:  "  How  many  laws  have  you  ?"  "  Two  laws:  the  writ- 
ten and  the  oral  law,"  answered  Shamai.  "  I  believe  thee  as 
regards  the  written  law,  but  I  do  not  believe  thee  as  to  the  oral 

*  Hillel,  being  the  president  of  the  Sanhedrin,  should  have  been  addressed  accord- 
ing to  his  rank,  but  by  addressing  him  thus,  it  seems,  the  man  thought  he  could  pro. 
voke  him  to  anger. 

VOL.    I. — 4, 


50  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

law,"  said  the  Gentile.  "  I  will  be  converted  to  Judaism  on 
condition  that  thou  teach  me  the  written  law."  Shamai  re- 
buked him  and  drove  him  away. 

He  then  came  to  Hillel  with  the  same  plea,  and  Hillel 
accepted  him.  He  began  teaching  him  the  alphabet  in  regular 
sequence.  The  next  day  he  taught  him  the  letters  backward. 
"  You  did  not  teach  me  so  yesterday,"  the  man  objected. 
"  Aye,  aye,  my  son;  must  thou  not  repose  confidence  in  me  ? 
Thou  must  likewise  repose  confidence  in  the  oral  law  (which 
appears  at  first  sight  different  from  the  written  law)." 

Another  Gentile  came  to  Shamai  saying:  "  Convert  me  on 
the  condition  that  thou  teach  me  the  whole  Torah  while  I  stand 
on  one  foot."  Shamai  pushed  him  away  with  the  builders' 
measure  he  held  in  his  hand.  He  thereupon  came  to  Hillel, 
and  the  latter  accepted  him.  He  told  him:  "  What  is  hateful 
to  thee,  do  not  unto  thy  fellow;  this  is  the  whole  law.  All  the 
rest  is  a  commentary  to  this  law;  go  and  learn  it." 

Another  Gentile  once  heard  a  Jewish  teacher  instructing  his 
class  about  the  vestments  of  the  high  priest.  He  took  a  fancy 
to  that,  and  thought  he  would  accept  Judaism  in  order  to  be 
made  a  high  priest.  Thus  he  appeared  before  Shamai  and  said : 
"  Convert  me  on  the  condition  that  I  be  made  a  high  priest." 
Shamai  pushed  him  away  with  the  builders'  measure  he  held  in 
his  hand.  He  came  to  Hillel  (with  the  same  request),  and  the 
latter  accepted  him.  Said  Hillel  to  him:  "  Do  people  select 
a  king  unless  he  knows  the  laws  of  their  government  ?  Thou 
must  study  the  laws  of  our  government  (if  thou  wilt  become  a 
high  priest). "  The  convert  began  studying  Torah.  When  he 
came  to  the  passage:  "  A  stranger  who  comes  near  (to  the  ves- 
sels of  the  sanctuary)  shall  die  "  [Numb.  i.  51],  he  asked:  "  To 
whom  does  this  passage  refer?"  Hillel  answered:  "To  any 
one  (who  is  not  a  descendant  of  Aaron  the  high  priest),  even  if 
he  would  be  David,  the  king  of  Israel."  Then  the  proselyte 
made  the  following  deduction :  If  the  people  of  Israel,  who  are 
called  the  children  of  the  Lord,  so  that  out  of  love  to  them  the 
Omnipotent  said:  "  My  first-born  son  is  Israel"  [Ex.  iv.  22] — 
if  of  them  it  is  written,  "  a  stranger  that  comes  nigh  shall  die," 
the  more  so  must  it  be  with  an  insignificant  stranger,  who  is 
come  (within  the  pale  of  Judaism)  merely  with  his  staff  and  his 
bag.  He  went  before  Shamai  and  said:  "Am  I  qualified  to 
become  a  high  priest  ?  Is  it  not  written  [Numb.  iii.  10] :  'A 
stranger  that  comes  nigh  shall  die  '  ?  "     He  then  appeared  before 


TRACT   SABBATH.  51 

Hillel  and  said:  "  For  thy  equanimity  of  temper,  O  Hillel!  may 
blessings  be  upon  thy  head,  for  thou  hast  gathered  me  in  under 
the  wings  of  the  Shekhina. ' '  The  three  converts  met  some  time 
later,  and  said :  "  The  impulsiveness  of  Shamai  came  near  sending 
us  adrift  in  the  world  (outside  of  the  pale  of  religion);  Hillel's 
equanimity  of  temper  gathered  us  in  under  the  wings  of  the 
Shekhina." 

Resh  Lakish  said:  What  does  the  verse,  "  The  trust  of  thy 
times  shall  be  the  strength  of  salvation,  wisdom,  and  knowl- 
edge," etc.  [Isa.  xxxiii.  6] — what  does  this  mean  ?  (I  think 
that  this  can  be  a  biblical  support  to  the  six  divisions  of  the 
Mishna  which  we  possess.*)  "The  trust"  comes  within  the 
section  of  "  Zeraim  "  (seeds);  "  thy  times"  in  "  Moed  "  (fes- 
tivals); "strength"  in  "  Nashim  "  (women);  "salvation"  in 
"  Nezikin  "  (jurisprudence);  "  wisdom  "  in  "  Qodoshim  "  (holi- 
ness), and  "  knowledge  "  in  section  "  Taharith  "  (purity).  And 
yet  "  the  fear  of  the  Lord  is  his  treasure  "  {i.e.,  all  these  do  not 
avail  where  there  is  not  the  fear  of  the  Lord).t 

•  Rabha  said:  When  a  man  comes  before  the  (divine)  judg- 
ment,, he  is  asked:  "Hast  thou  traded  in  good  faith?  Hast 
thou  apportioned  regular  times  for  study  ?  Hast  thou  produced 
children  ?  Didst  thou  hope  for  salvation?  Hast  thou  discussed 
subjects  of  wisdom?  Hast  thou  formed  (logical)  conclusions 
from  the  things  thou  hast  learned  ?"  After  all  this  (if  he  can 
afifirm  all  these  questions),  if  he  possessed  the  fear  of  the  Lord, 
it  was  well ;  if  not,  it  was  not  so.  This  is  like  a  man  who  ordered 
his  agent  to  store  a  measure  of  wheat  in  the  attic.  The  agent 
did  so.  Then  the  man  asked  him  whether  he  had  mixed  some 
dry  dust  with  the  wheat  (for  protection  against  weevils),  and 
he  answered  nay.  "  It  were  better,"  said  the  merchant,  "if 
thou  hadst  not  stored  it." 

Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  said:  "  A  man  who  possesses  learning, 

*  The  six  departments  enumerated  here  are  those  of  the  Mishna,  into  which  the 
rabbis  have  divided  all  the  subjects  touched  upon  in  the  Bible. 

f  "  Trust  "  comes  within  the  department  of  "  Seeds"  because  the  tithe  due  the 
priests  and  Levites  by  the  farmers  was  not  fixed  legally  as  to  quantity,  but  was 
trusted  to  the  honesty  of  the  donor.  "  Thy  times  "  comes  within  "  Festivals"  for 
self-evident  reasons.  "  Strength"  comes  within  "  Women,"  for  the  reason  that  the 
Hebrew  word,  "chosen,"  also  means  inheritance,  and  heirs  are  naturally  produced 
by  women  (this  is  the  opinion  of  Rashi).  "  Salvation  "in  "  Jurisprudence  ":  all  laws 
pertaining  to  the  saving  of  life  and  property.  "  Wisdom  "in  "  Holiness  ":  the  holy 
sacrifices  requiring  the  exercise  of  much  wisdom.  "Knowledge"  in  "Purity": 
the  determining  of  pure  and  defiled  things  necessarily  demanded  thorough  knowl- 
edge of  the  subject. 


52  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

but  has  no  fear  of  Heaven,  is  like  the  manager  (of  a  palace)  who 
has  the  keys  to  the  inside  apartments,  but  lacks  the  one  which 
opens  the  outside  gate.      How  can  he  enter  ?  " 

R.  Janai  proclaimed:  "  Alas  for  him  who  has  no  dwelling, 
yet  strives  to  make  the  door  of  a  dwelling!  "  R.  Jehudah  said: 
The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  created  the  world  only  for  the 
purpose  that  man  should  fear  Him,  for  it  is  written:  "God 
hath  so  made  it,  that  (men)  should  fear  him  "  [Eccl.  iii.  14]. 

R.  Simon  and  R.  Elazar  were  sitting  together  as  R.  Jacob 
b.  Aha  came  passing  by.  Said  one  of  them:  "  Come,  let  us 
arise  before  him,  for  he  is  a  man  that  fears  sins."  Said  the 
other:  "  Aye;  let  us  arise  before  him,  for  he  is  a  son  of  en- 
lightenment (a  scholar)."  Said  the  former:  I  tell  thee  that  he 
is  a  man  that  is  afraid  of  sins,  and  thou  sayest  he  is  a  scholar. 
Thou  shouldst  be  mindful  of  what  R.  Elazar  said :  The  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  has  nothing  better  in  the  world  than  (men 
who  possess)  the  fear  of  Heaven,  for  thus  it  is  written:  "  And 
now,  Israel,  what  doth  the  Lord  thy  God  require  of  thee,  but 
to  fear  the  Lord  thy  God  "  [Deut.  x.  12]. 

R.  Ulla  lectured:  What  does  the  passage  mean,  "  Be  not 
wicked  over  much  "  [Eccl.  vii.  17].  Is  it  allowed  to  be  wicked 
at  all  ?  Nay,  but  the  passage  means  this:  If  one  has  eaten  gar- 
lic and  has  acquired  a  bad  odor,  he  must  not  eat  more  garlic 
because  the  bad  odor  is  (about  him)  already.  Rabba  b.  R.  Ulla 
lectured:  It  is  written:  "  For  there  are  no  fetters  in  them,  but 
their  strength  is  firm"  [Psalms,  Ixxiii.  4].  The  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  said:  "  It  is  not  enough  that  the  wicked  do  not 
trouble  for  nor  fear  the  day  of  their  death,  but  that  their  heart 
within  them  is  as  strong  as  a  strong  fortress."  Which  is  similar 
to  Rabba's  explanation  of  the  passage:  "This  is  their  way; 
their  folly  "  [ibid.  xlix.  14].  The  wicked  know  that  their  man- 
ner (of  living)  leads  them  to  death,  and  still  their  kidneys  wax 
fat  (implying  their  blindness  to  the  fact).  Perhaps  thou  wilt 
attribute  this  to  their  forgetfulness  ?  Therefore  it  is  written: 
"  What  will  happen  after  their  lives  is  the  subject  of  their  say- 
ings," whence  we  conclude  that  while  they  do  not  repent,  they 
continually  speak  of  their  death. 

To  spare  the  lanipy'  etc.  With  whom  does  R.  Jose  agree  ? 
If  he  agrees  with  R.  Jehudah,  he  should  declare  culpable  even 
these ;  and  if  he  agrees  with  R.  Simeon,  he  should  declare  free 
even  (the  man  who  extinguishes  the  lamp)  for  the  purpose  of 
saving  the  wick.     Said  Ulla:  By  all  means  R.  Jose  agrees  with 


TRACT    SABBATH. 


53 


R.  Jehudah,  but  he  holds  that  if  one  destroys  in  order  to  rebuild 
in  the  same  place,  he  is  guilty  (of  the  act)  of  breaking;  but  if 
one  destroys,  not  intending  to  rebuild  in  the  same  place,  he  is 
not  (guilty  of)  breaking.  R.  Johanan,  however,  maintains  that 
he  holds  as  R.  Simeon;  but  in  the  case  of  this  wick  it  is  differ- 
ent, as  R.  Hamnunah  or  R.  Ada  b.  A'haba  interpreted  our 
Mishna  that  it  reads  "  from  a  wick  which  needs  singeing,"  and 
it  is  such  a  case.  R.  Simeon  also  agrees  that  it  is  prohibited 
because  it  is  considered  that  he  repairs  a  vessel.  Said  Rabha: 
It  seems  that  this  explanation  is  right,  as  the  Mishna  states  "  to 
be  formed,"  and  not  a  cinder  is  formed  (already). 

MISHNA  VII.  :  For  three  sins  women  die  of  childbirth:  for 
negligence  (of  the  laws)  during  their  menstruation,  neglect  of 
separating  the  first  dough,  and  for  neglecting  to  light  the  (Sab- 
bath) lamp. 

GEMARA:  Why  so  ?  Thus  a  Galilean  master  lectured 
before  R.  Hisda:  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  says:  I  have 
created  you  with  power  of  blood ;  I  have  warned  you  concern- 
ing blood;  I  have  called  you  "  the  first  produce"  [Jer.  ii.  3], 
and  charged  you  to  sacrifice  the  "  first  of  your  dough  "  [Numb, 
xvi.  21] ;  the  soul  that  I  gave  you  is  called  a  light,  and  I  have 
charged  you  concerning  the  (Sabbath)  light.  If  you  observe 
these  things,  it  is  well;  if  not,  I  shall  take  your  souls.  But 
why  should  this  happen  at  the  time  of  childbirth  ?  Said  Rabha: 
When  the  ox  falls  or  is  felled,  it  is  time  to  sharpen  the  knife.* 

And  when  are  the  sins  of  men  passed  upon  ?  Said  Resh 
Lakish:  When  they  pass  a  dangerous  place  that  is  like  a  bridge 
(which  is  unsafe).  Rabh  would  not  embark  on  a  ship  that  car- 
ried an  idolater.  Said  he:  "  His  time  to  be  punished  may 
come,  and  I  (being  on  the  same  vessel)  may  have  to  suffer  with 
him."  Samuel,  however,  would  go  to  sea  only  on  a  vessel 
which  carried  idolaters,  saying:  "  Satan  hardly  ever  metes  out 
punishment  to  two  people"  (of  different  beliefs).  R.  Janai 
always  examined  a  vessel  before  he  embarked.  This  he  did  in 
conformity  with  his  own  theory  elsewhere,  for  thus  he  taught : 
"  A  man  should  never  place  himself  in  danger,  expecting  that 
a  miracle  will  be  wrought  for  him ;  for  it  may  be  that  no 
such  miracle  will  be  wrought,  and  if  a  miracle  is  wrought  for 
him,  it  will  be  deducted  from  the  reward  due  his  merits  in  the 

*  When  the  ox  is  felled  the  knife  should  be  ready,  lest  he  rise  again  and  cause 
more  trouble  ;  thus  it  is  stated  that  women  die  at  time  of  childbirth  because,  while 
they  are  in  danger,  the  punishment  for  transgressions  is  also  inflicted  ! 


54  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

world  to  come."  And  R.  Hanin  said:  "  Where  is  this  to  be 
found  in  the  Scripture  ?"  From  the  verse:  "  I  am  not  worthy 
of  all  thy  kindness  and  of  all  thy  truth  "  [Gen.  xxxii.  ii].  R. 
Zera  would  never  walk  under  date  trees  in  stormy  weather.  R. 
Itz'hak  b.  R.  Jehudah  said:  A  man  must  always  pray  that  he 
should  not  become  sick,  for  if  sickness  befall  him,  he  must  be 
possessed  of  special  virtues  in  order  to  get  well  again.  And  to 
the  question  of  Mar  Uqba:  Is  this  to  be  found  in  the  Scrip- 
ture ?  he  was  told  that  the  school  of  R.  Ishmael  maintains 
the  passage  in  question  is  to  be  taken  from  Deut.  xxii.  8 — viz. : 
"  Peradventure  one  may  fall  down  from  there."  The  word 
"  Hanofel,"  which  is  in  the  past  tense  and  implies  that  he  has 
fallen  down,  although  such  a  case  had  not  happened  as  yet,  is 
simply  a  matter  of  conjecture  on  the  part  of  this  school,  which 
considered  a  predestined  thing  as  a  matter  that  had  already 
occurred,  because  the  fall  was  already  predestined  for  the  guilty 
person;  as  it  is  said:  The  reward  of  virtue  is,  however,  brought 
about  by  a  meritorious  person,  while  the  chastisement  for  sin  is 
dealt  out  through  a  sinner  (and  his  not  making  a  railing  around 
his  roof  constitutes  him  a  guilty  person).     [See  Deut.  xxii.  8.] 

The  rabbis  taught:  He  who  becomes  sick,  death  approaching, 
should  be  told  to  confess  his  sins,  for  all  those  who  are  to  suffer 
the  death  penalty  must  make  a  confession.  When  a  man  goes 
out  to  a  market  (where  there  are  always  dangerous  people  in  the 
crowd),  he  should  consider  himself  like  one  arrested  by  a  ser- 
geant. When  his  head  aches,  he  should  consider  himself  as  one 
put  in  prison.  If  he  cannot  rise  from  his  bed,  he  should  con- 
sider himself  as  one  indicted  before  Gardom  (a  criminal  court) ; 
if  he  has  good  advocates  to  defend  him,  he  may  go  free ;  if  not, 
he  cannot  be  saved.  The  defending  attorneys  of  a  man  (before 
divine  justice)  are  penitence  and  good  deeds.  If  there  should 
be  nine  hundred  and  ninety-nine  accusers  against  him  and  only 
one  to  plead  in  his  favor,  he  is  saved,  as  it  is  written :  "  If  there 
be  a  messenger  with  him,  an  interpreter,  one  among  a  thousand 
to  show  unto  man  his  uprightness,  then  He  is  gracious  unto 
him,"  etc.  [Job  xxxiii.  23].  R.  Eliezer  b.  R.  Jose  the  Galilean 
said :  Even  if  only  one  thousandth  part  of  one  advocate  out  of 
a  thousand  plead  in  the  man's  favor,  although  the  rest  speak 
against  him,  he  is  saved;  because  it  is  said  "  one  "  defender  out 
of  a  thousand  suffices. 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  said:  "The 
laws  of  holy  offerings,  heave-offerings,  and  tithes  are  integral 


TRACT    SABBATH.  55 

parts  of  the  Torah,  and  yet  their  observance  was  intrusted  to 
the  common  people." 

There  is  another  Boraitha:  R.  Nathan  says:  For  the  sin  of 
vows  one's  wife  dies,  as  it  is  written  [Proverbs,  xxii.  27] : 
"  .  .  .  why  should  he  take  away  thy  bed  from  under 
thee?"* 

Another  Boraitha  states:  R.  Nehemiah  said:  The  penalty 
for  the  sin  of  hating  without  cause  is  strife  at  home,  the  wife 
(of  the  sinner)  gives  birth  before  her  time,  his  sons  and  daugh- 
ters die  young. 

R.  Elazar  b.  Jehudah  says:  The  penalty  for  the  sin  of 
neglecting  the  first  dough  is:  no  blessing  in  the  harvest,  high 
prices  (for  necessities),  the  consumption  of  the  seed  by  strangers ; 
but  if  this  portion  is  given,  blessings  will  surely  follow,  as  it  is 
written:  "  The  first  of  your  dough  shall  you  give  to  the  priest, 
to  cause  a  blessing  to  rest  on  thy  house  "  [Ez.  xliv.  30].  The 
penalty  for  the  sin  of  neglecting  heave-offerings  and  tithes  is: 
the  sky  withholds  rain  and  dew ;  dearth  comes  on,  there  are  no 
profits,  and  men  run  about  to  earn  a  livelihood,  but  they  do  not 
succeed.  But  if  these  offerings  are  given,  blessings  will  come, 
as  it  is  written:  "  Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  storehouse, 
etc.,  and  prove  me  but  herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  if  I 
will  not  open  for  you  the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  out  for 
you  a  blessing  until  there  be  more  than  enough  "  [Mai.  iii.  10]. 
The  penalty  for  the  sin  of  robbery  is:  locust  pestilence,  famine 
comes,  and  the  people  feed  on  the  flesh  of  their  children,  as  it 
is  written  [Amos,  iv.  1-7,  q.  v.]  For  the  sins  of  curbing, 
perverting,  and  polluting  justice,  and  of  neglecting  the  law, 
the  sword  comes  on,  (enemies  take)  much  spoil,  the  people  eat 
and  are  never  satisfied,  and  they  must  weigh  the  bread  they  eat 
{i.e.,  eat  in  small  portions,  for  fear  that  nothing  be  left  for  the 
next  meal),  as  it  is  written  [Leviticus,  xxvi.  25]:  "Avenging 
the  quarrel  of  my  covenant,"  and  covenant  is  synonymous  with 
the  Law,  as  it  is  written  [Jeremiah,  xxxiii.  25]:  "Thus  hath 
said  the  Lord,"  etc.  For  the  sins  of  unnecessary  and  false 
swearing,  perjury,  blasphemy,  and  desecration  of  the  Sabbath, 
many  wild  beasts  come  and  domestic  cattle  are  destroyed,  the 
population  decreases,  and  the  roads  are  bare  (without  travellers), 
as  it  is  written  [Lev.  xxvi.  18  to  the  end  of  the  parargaph]. 

*  The  text  continues  with  the  punishment  of  death  for  different  sins,  which  are 
repeated  in  other  tracts,  but  we  have  omitted  them  here,  as  they  will  be  translated  in 
the  proper  place. 


56  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

For  the  sin  of  bloodshed  the  sanctuary  is  laid  waste  and  She- 
khina  departs  from  Israel,  as  it  is  written  [Numbers,  xxxv.  34]  : 
"  And  ye  shall  not  render  unclean  the  land  which  ye  inhabit, 
in  the  midst  of  which  I  dwell ;  for  I,  the  Lord,  dwell  in  the 
midst  of  the  children  of  Israel  "  ;  which  signifies  that  if  ye  ren- 
der it  unclean,  the  Shekhina  will  depart  from  the  land.  For 
the  sins  of  adultery,  idolatry,  and  disregard  of  (the  laws  of)  the 
Sabbatic  and  Jubilee  years  exile  comes,  and  (other  nations) 
take  up  the  place  (of  the  exiles),  as  it  is  written  [Lev.  xviii.  and 
xxvii.].  For  the  sin  of  defiling  the  mouth  (speaking  indecent 
things),  great  oppressions  and  evil  decrees  are  (constantly)  re- 
newed, young  men  die,  orphans  and  widows  cry  (for  help),  but 
are  not  answered,  as  it  is  written  [Isaiah,  ix.,  end  of  verse  16]: 
"  For  all  this  his  anger  is  not  turned  away  and  his  hand  still 
remaineth  stretched  out,"  which  is  explained  by  R.  Hanan  b. 
Ahba  as  follows:  "  All  know  for  what  purpose  a  bride  marries; 
still,  he  who  defiles  his  mouth  (by  speaking  of  its  details),  even 
if  a  happy  life  of  seventy  years  is  decreed  for  him,  the  decree 
is  turned  aside."  Rabba  b.  Shila  in  the  name  of  R.  Hisda 
says:  Gehenna  is  made  deep  for  him  who  defiles  his  mouth,  as 
it  is  written  [Proverbs,  xxii.  14].  R.  Na'hman  b.  Isaac  says:  It 
is  made  deep  even  for  the  one  who  listens  to  (indecent  talk)  and 
does  not  protest  against  it  [ibid.  15].  R.  Oshia  says:  He  who 
abuses  himself  (by  masturbation)  becomes  afflicted  with  wounds 
and  boils;  not  only  this,  but  he  is  punished  with  dropsy.*  R. 
Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  says  dropsy  is  an  evidence  of  sin.  Samuel 
the  Little  took  sick  with  it,  and  he  said:  "  Lord  of  the  Uni- 
verse! Who  will  prove  (that  I  am  not  guilty  of  immoral  con- 
duct) ? "  Hereupon  he  got  well  again.  Abayi  took  sick  with 
it.  Said  Rabha:  "I  know  that  the  Nahmanite  (son  of  Na'h- 
man) starves  himself." 

The  rabbis  taught:  There  are  four  evidences:  an  evidence 
of  sin  is  dropsy;  an  evidence  of  hate  without  cause  is  jaundice; 
an  evidence  of  pride  is  poverty;  an  evidence  of  calumny  (spread- 
ing evil  reports  about  others)  is  croup.  The  sickness  of  croup 
becomes  epidemic  for  (the  sin  of  neglecting  to  give)  tithes;  but 
R.  Elazar  b.  Jose  said,  only  for  the  sin  of  calumny. 

R.  Jehudah,  R.  Jose,  and  R.  Simeon  were  sitting  together, 
and  Jehudah,  the  son  of  proselytes,  sat  before  them.  R.  Jehu- 
dah opened  the  conversation,  saying:  "  How  beautiful  are  the 

*  The  text  refers  also  to  verses  in  the  Scripture,  but  as  there  is  no  direct  proof, 
we  have  omitted  them. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  57 

works  of  this  nation  (the  Romans).  They  have  established 
markets,  they  have  built  bridges,  they  have  opened  bathing- 
houses."  R.  Jose  said  nothing,  but  R.  Simeon  b.  Johai  said: 
"All  these  things  they  have  instituted  for  their  own  sake. 
Their  markets  are  gathering-places  for  harlots;  they  have  builjt 
baths  for  the  purpose  of  indulging  themselves  in  their  comforts; 
they  have  built  bridges  to  collect  tolls  from  those  who  cross 
them."  Jehudah,  the  son  of  proselytes,  went  and  reported  this 
conversation,  and  it  came  to  the  ears  of  the  government.  Said 
(the  rulers):  "  Jehudah,  who  has  praised  (our  doings),  shall  be 
promoted;  Jose,  who  said  nothing,  shall  be  exiled  to  Sophoris; 
Simeon,  who  spoke  disparagingly,  shall  be  put  to  death."  R. 
Simeon  and  his  son  then  went  and  hid  themselves  in  the  col- 
lege, and  their  wives  brought  them  every  day  some  bread  and 
a  pitcher  of  water,  and  they  ate.  When  the  decree  became 
imperative,  he  said  to  his  son:  "  Women  are  of  a  pliant  dispo- 
sition. They  (the  government  agents)  will  perhaps  trouble 
them,  and  they  (the  women)  will  reveal  our  whereabouts." 
They  then  went  and  hid  themselves  in  a  cave.  A  miracle 
occurred,  that  a  date  tree  and  a  spring  of  water  came  out  for 
them.  They  stripped  themselves  naked  and  sat  down  covered 
with  sand  up  to  their  necks.  Thus  they  sat  all  day  studying; 
only  at  the  time  of  prayer  they  put  on  their  garments,  and  after 
performing  their  devotion  they  took  them  off  again  for  fear 
they  might  wear  them  out.  In  this  wise  they  spent  twelve 
years  in  their  cave.  Elijah  then  came  to  the  opening  of  the 
cave  and  said:  "  Who  will  inform  the  son  of  Johai  that  the 
Caesar  (governor)  is  dead  and  his  decree  is  annulled  ? "  Here- 
upon they  left  the  cave.  They  then  went  forth  and  saw  men 
who  were  ploughing  and  sowing  grain.  Said  R.  Simeon: 
"  These  people  leave  the  works  which  lead  to  everlasting  life 
and  occupy  themselves  with  worldly  things."  After  this  every 
place  where  they  chanced  to  turn  their  eyes  was  burned.  Sud- 
denly a  "  Bath-kol  "  (heavenly  voice)  was  heard,  which  said 
unto  them :  "  Have  ye  come  to  destroy  my  world  ?  Go,  return 
to  your  cave."  They  returned  and  stayed  in  the  cave  another 
twelvemonth,  saying  the  punishment  of  the  wicked  in  Gehenna 
only  lasts  twelve  months.  At  the  end  of  that  time  came  again 
the  heavenly  voice  and  said:  "  Go  out  of  the  cave,"  and  they 
came  out.  And  R.  Simeon  said  to  his  son:  "  It  is  enough  for 
this  world  that  I  and  you  are  occupied  with  the  study  of  the 
Torah  and  with  good  deeds."     This  happened  on  a  Friday  near 


58  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

sunset.  They  saw  a  man  hurrying  with  two  bunches  of  myrtle 
in  his  hand.  "What  are  they  for?"  they  asked  him.  "To 
honor  the  Sabbath,"  was  the  reply.  "  Would  not  one  bunch 
be  enough  ?"  "  Nay;  one  is  for  the  command  '  remember,'* 
the  other  for  the  command  '  observe,'  "  said  the  man.  Said  R. 
Simeon  to  his  son:  "  Behold,  how  Israel  loves  the  commands 
(of  God)."     This  reassured  them. 

R.  Simeon's  father-in-law,  R.  Pinhas  b;  Yair,  heard  (that 
they  were  coming)  and  went  to  meet  them.  He  took  them  to 
the  bath-house.  While  R.  Simeon  was  cleaning  his  (own) 
body,  R.  Pinhas  noticed  that  it  was  full  of  blisters;  tears 
ran  from  his  eyes  when  he  saw  this,  and  (the  tears  falling 
upon  the  flesh  of  his  son-in-law)  caused  R.  Simeon  pain. 
Said  R.  Pinhas:  "  Woe  unto  me,  that  I  see  thee  in  this 
state."  R.  Simeon  rejoined:  "Well  unto  thee,  that  thou 
seest  me  so,  for  if  thou  hadst  not  seen  me  in  this  state  thou 
couldst  not  find  in  me  (all  the  learning)  that  thou  canst  find  in 
me  now." 

MISHNA  VIII. :  One  must  say  three  things  in  his  house  on 
Friday,  when  it  is  getting  dark — viz. :  "  Have  you  set  aside  the 
tithes  (from  the  fruit,  which  is  to  be  eaten  on  the  Sabbath)  ?" 
"  Have  you  put  up  the  Erubh  ?"  and  "  Light  ye  the  lamp." 
When  one  is  in  doubt  whether  darkness  has  set  in,  he  must  not 
separate  tithes  from  (fruit  of  which  he  is)  certain  (that  tithes  had 
not  been  set  aside),  and  he  shall  not  put  vessels  under  process  of 
lavation,t  and  he  shall  not  light  a  lamp  any  more.  But  he  may 
set  aside  tithes  from  (fruit  of  which  he  is)  not  certain  (that  tithes 
have  been  set  aside),  and  he  may  put  up  the  Erubh  and  also  put 
his  victuals  into  the  stove  for  the  purpose  of  keeping  them 
warm. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  this  deduced?  Said  R.  Joshua  b. 
Levi:  from  [Job,  v.  24]  "  Thou  shalt  know  that  peace  is  in  thy 
tent,  and  shalt  examine  thy  dwelling,  that  thou  mayest  not 
sin."  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  said:  Although  the  masters  have 
taught  that ' '  one  m  ust  say  three  things, ' '  etc. ,  yet  he  ought  to  say 
them  quietly,  in  order  that  (his  family)  should  accept  them  from 
him  (in  good  grace).     Said  R.  Ashi:  "  I  have  not  heard  of  this 

*  In  the  Decalogue  of  Exodus  the  fourth  commandment  begins  with  the  word 
"Zakhor"  (remember);  in  Deuteronomy  it  begins  with  the  word  "Shamor" 
(observe). 

f  All  new  vessels  must  undergo  a  process  of  lavation  before  they  can  be  used 
[Num.  xxxi.  23I. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  59 

saying  of  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  before,  yet  I  have  always  done  so 
as  a  matter  of  common  sense." 

Does  not  the  text  contradict  itself  ?  It  states:  "  One  must 
say  three  things,  etc.,  when  it  is  getting  dark."  This  implies 
that  if  he  is  in  doubt  whether  it  is  getting  dark  or  whether  dark- 
ness has  already  set  in,  he  cannot  say  it  any  longer.  In  the  lat- 
ter part,  however,  it  says  "if  he  is  in  doubt,  etc.,  he  may  put 
up  an  Erubh. " 

Said  R.  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  b.  Ashi,  quoting  Rabh : 
"  It  presents  no  difficulty.  In  the  first  part  it  speaks  of  an 
Erubh  of  Techum  (that  marks  the  boundary  of  two  thousand 
ells  around  the  city,  where  it  is  allowed  for  one  to  walk  on  Sab- 
bath); in  the  latter  part  it  speaks  of  an  Erubh  by  which  the 
neighbors  of  adjoining  courts  make  common  cause." 

Rabba  said :  The  rabbis  have  prohibited  putting  victuals 
among  things  (that  preserve  but)  that  do  not  increase  the  heat 
after  dark,  for  fear  lest  one  find  them  too  cold  and  be  tempted 
to  make  them  boil.  Said  Abayi  to  him:  "  If  such  is  the  case, 
why  did  they  not  enact  the  same  prohibition  for  (the  time)  when 
it  is  twilight  also  ?  "  Answered  Rabba:  "  At  that  time  the  pots 
are  generally  boiling  hot." 

Rabba  said  again :  "  Why  was  it  said  that  one  must  not  put 
victuals  among  things  that  increase  the  heat,  when  it  is  yet  day, 
for  fear  lest  one  put  them  in  cinders  where  there  are  yet  live 
coals?"  Said  Abayi  to  him:  "What  harm  is  there?  let  him 
do  so."  And  he  answered:  "It  may  be  feared  lest  he  be 
tempted  to  stir  the  burning  coals.  * '  The  rabbis  taught :  ' '  Which 
is  the  time  of  twilight  ?"  When  the  sun  sets  and  the  eastern 
sky  is  red ;  when  the  lower  (edge  of  a  cloud)  is  dark,  while  the 
upper  part  is  not  yet  dark;  but  when  the  upper  edge  (of  such 
a  cloud)  is  as  dark  as  the  lower,  night  has  set  in.  So  says  R. 
Jehudah.  R.  Nehemiah  says :  (The  duration  of  twilight)  is  the 
time  one  takes  to  walk  half  a  mile  from  the  moment  the  sun 
sets.  R.  Jose  says :  Twilight  is  like  the  twinkling  of  an  eye ; 
the  one  (day)  goes  out,  the  other  (night)  comes  in,  and  it  is  im- 
possible to  determine  it.  And  each  of  them  is  in  accordance 
with  his  theory  elsewhere;  as  it  was  taught:  What  is  the  dura- 
tion of  twlight  ?  Rabba  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah,  quoting 
Samuel,  said :  (The  time  it  takes  to  walk)  three-quarters  of 
a  mile;  and  R.  Joseph  said  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority: 
Two-thirds  of  a  mile.  The  difference  between  them  is  half 
a  danka.     (The  contrary  is  the  case  when  a  bee-hive  is  con- 


6o  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

cerned ;  in  that  case  Rabba  said :  A  bee-hive  of  two  kurs  *  one 
may  move  on  the  Sabbath;  of  three,  one  shall  not.  R.  Joseph, 
however,  said  that  one  may  move  even  a  hive  of  three  kurs,  but 
one  of  four  is  forbidden.  Said  Abayi :  I  have  inquired  of  the 
master  at  the  time  of  the  deed,  and  he  did  not  even  permit  me 
to  move  one  of  two  kurs.) 

Rabha  saw  that  Abayi  was  (one  Friday)  looking  toward  the 
east  (to  calculate  the  duration  of  twilight).  Said  he  to  him : 
"  Dost  thou  think  the  masters  spoke  of  the  sky  in  the  east? 
They  spoke  of  an  object  in  the  east  that  reflects  the  red  sky  (of 
the  west),  like  a  window  (placed  eastward  of  the  setting  sun). 

"  It  takes  one  to  walk  half  a  mile."  Said  R.  Hanina:  "  If 
one  wishes  to  know  the  time  according  to  R.  Nehemiah's  calcu- 
lation, he  should  leave  the  sun  (see  it  set)  on  the  top  of  Karmel 
(a  certain  mountain  peak  on  the  sea-coast),  go  down,  dive  into 
the  sea,  and  go  up  (the  mountain)  again ;  this  will  give  him  the 
exact  time."  R.  Jehudah,  however,  in  the  name  of  Samuel 
said:  (To  know  the  exact  time  of  twilight  may  be  fixed  thus:) 
"  If  only  one  star  (can  be  seen  in  the  sky),  it  is  yet  day;  if  two 
stars,  it  is  twilight;  three  stars,  it  is  night."  And  so  also  we 
have  learned  plainly  in  a  Boraitha  with  the  addition:  Said  R. 
Jose:  The  stars  mentioned  do  not  mean  the  big  stars,  that  can 
be  seen  in  daytime,  and  not  the  small  stars,  which  cannot  easily 
be  seen  at  night,  but  stars  of  medium  size. 

R.  Jose  b.  R.  Zebhida  said:  If  one  (unintentionally)  per- 
forms work  on  both  times  of  twilight  (Friday  and  Sabbath),  he 
must  certainly  bring  a  sin-offering  (because  at  one  of  both  times 
it  was  certainly  Sabbath). 

Rabba  said  to  his  servant:  "  You,  who  are  not  an  expert  in 
the  scholarly  calculation  of  time,  must  light  the  Sabbath  lamp 
when  you  see  the  (last  rays  of  the)  sun  on  top  of  the  trees.  In 
cloudy  weather  how  shall  it  be  ?  (The  lamp  must  be  lit)  in  the 
city  when  the  hens  go  to  roost ;  in  the  field,  when  the  ravens 
fly  to  roost  or  when  the  mallow  shrub  f  (inclines  its  head  to  the 
west). 

The  rabbis  taught :  Six  times  was  the  signal  blown  on 
Friday:  the  first  time  to  stop  work  in  the  field,  the  second  to 

*  Kur  was  an  ancient  measure  and  cannot  be  determined  at  the  present  time  ;  it 
may  have  been  about  three  gallons.  See  Schoenhak's  "  Hamashbir."  A  danka  is 
a  twelfth  or  a  half  of  a  sixth  part. 

f  The  mallow  {Adana  or  Harna,  see  Arukh),  more  than  any  other  plant,  was  be- 
lieved to  incline  its  head  toward  the  sun,  like  our  own  sunflower. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  6i 

stop  it  in  the  city  and  in  the  stores,  the  third  time  to  light  the 
lamps.  So  said  R.  Nathan.  R.  Jehudah  the  Prince  says  that 
the  third  time  is  sounded  to  take  off  the  phylacteries.  Then 
(the  beadle)  waits  about  as  long  as  is  required  to  bake  a  small 
fish,  or  for  bread  to  cleave  to  the  oven,  and  he  sounds  again  the 
three  tones  *  of  the  signal  in  succession  for  the  Sabbath  (that  is 
already  come).  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  said:  "  What  shall  we 
do  with  the  Babylonians  ?  They  sound  the  signal  first,  and 
then  blow  the  trumpet ;  from  the  moment  the  trumpet  is 
sounded  they  cease  work."  They  do  so  because  it  is  with  them 
a  matter  of  inherited  custom. 

R.  Jehudah  taught  his  son,  R.  Itz'hak:  "  The  third  (sound- 
ing was  a  signal)  to  light  the  lamp."  This  agrees  with  the 
ruling  of  R.  Nathan. 

•  At  the  school  of  R.  Ishmael  it  was  taught :  Six  times  the 
signal  is  sounded  on  Friday.  When  the  first  sounding  begins, 
those  who  are  in  the  field  stop  ploughing  and  harrowing  and  all 
field  work.  At  the  entrance  to  the  city  those  who  are  near 
must  wait  until  the  distant  (farmers)  come,  so  that  they  enter 
the  city  all  together.  The  stores  are  yet  open,  and  the  stalls 
(upon  which  wares  are  laid  out)  are  as  yet  in  their  places.  As 
soon  as  the  second  sounding  begins,  the  stalls  are  cleared  and 
the  stores  closed.  The  warm  victuals  (prepared  for  the  Sab- 
bath) and  the  pots  are  as  yet  upon  the  hearth.  As  soon  as  the 
third  sounding  begins  the  pots  are  taken  off  the  hearth,  the 
warm  victuals  are  put  in  the  stove,  and  the  lamps  are  lighted. 
Then  (the  beadle)  waits  about  as  long  as  it  is  required  to  bake 
a  small  fish  or  for  bread  to  cleave  to  the  oven,  and  he  sounds 
trumpets  and  sounds  the  signal  again  and  rests.  Said  R.  Jose 
b.  R.  Haninah :  "  I  have  heard  that  if  one  wants  to  light  up 
after  the  six  signals  he  may  do  so,  for  the  rabbis  have  allowed 
some  time  to  the  beadle  to  take  his  Shophar  (horn)  to  the  house 
(after  the  six  signals).  Said  the  schoolmen  to  him:  "  If  such 
were  the  case,  the  subject  would  depend  on  various  measure- 
ments of  time."  Nay,  but  the  beadle  has  a  concealed  place 
upon  the  roof  (where  he  sounds  the  Shophar)  and  puts  away  his 
instrument  (as  soon  as  he  has  used  it);  because  neither  a  Sho- 
phar nor  a  fife  may  be  handled  (when  the  Sabbath  is  come). 

But  have  we  not  learned  that  a  Shophar  may  be  handled, 

*  The  three  tones  of  the  Shophar  are  technically  designated  a  "  Tekyah  "  (a  long 
simple  note):  "Teruah"  (a  slow  trill),  and  "Tekyah"  again.  See  note  to  Rosh 
Hashana,  p.  63,  first  edition. 


62  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

but  a  fife  may  not  ?  Says  R.  Joseph :  This  is  not  contradictory. 
Our  case  is  that  of  a  Shophar  belonging  to  the  community;  the 
case  adduced  treated  of  one  that  belongs  to  a  private  party 
(therefore  it  is  permissible). 

Said  Abayi :  "Why  may  a  Shophar  that  is  private  prop- 
erty be  handled  ?  Because  it  is  sometimes  used  for  taking  up 
water,  to  give  a  child  drink;  let  one  that  is  public  property  also 
be  allowed  to  handle,  because  it  may  be  used  in  the  same  man- 
ner."  Furthermore,  was  it  not  taught:  "  As  a  Shophar  may  be 
handled,  so  also  may  the  fife  be  handled?"  According  to 
whose  ruling  is  this  ?  There  is  no  contradiction  in  all  this. 
The  one  (that  a  Shophar  may  be  handled,  but  not  a  fife)  is 
according  to  the  ruling  of  R.  Jehudah.  The  other  (that  both 
may  be  handled)  is  according  to  the  ruling  of  R.  Simeon.  The 
third  (that  neither  should  be  handled)  is  according  to  the  ruling 
of  R.  Nehemiah.  "  And  what  is  a  Shophar?"  The  same  as 
a  fife,  as  R.  Hisda  says:  "  Since  the  sanctuary  was  destroyed 
the  names  have  become  changed;  a  Shophar  is  called  a  fife,  and 
a  fife  is  called  a  Shophar." 


CHAPTER   III. 

REGULATIONS   CONCERNING    STOVES,  HEARTHS,  AND   OVENS. 

MISHNA  /. :  Cooked  victuals  may  be  put  on  a  stove  that 
was  heated  with  straw  or  stubble.  If  the  stove  was  heated  with 
the  pulp  of  poppy  seed  {i.e.,  poppy  seed  from  which  the  oil  was 
pressed  out)  or  with  wood,  (cooked  victuals)  may  not  be  put  upon 
it,  unless  the  (live)  coals  were  taken  out  or  covered  with  ashes. 
Beth  Shamai  says :  (The  latter  instance)  is  permissible  only  in  the 
case  of  victuals  that  are  to  be  kept  warm,  but  not  of  such  as  are 
improved  by  continued  cooking.  Beth  Hillel  says:  Both  alike 
are  permitted.  Beth  Shamai  says:  (Victuals)  may  be  taken  off 
the  stove,  but  not  put  back  upon  it ;  Beth  Hillel  permits  it. 

GEMARA:  The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  "As 
for  the  expression  '  shall  not  be  put,'  does  it  (referring  to  a  pot 
that  has  been  taken  off  the  stove)  mean  '  one  shall  not  put  it 
back,'  but  if  it  has  not  been  taken  off,  it  may  be  left  there,  even 
if  the  live  coals  were  not  cleared  away  or  covered  with  ashes  ? 
Or  does  it  mean  that  the  pot  should  not  be  left  there  (even  if  it 
was  standing  there  before)  unless  the  live  coals  have  been 
cleared  out  or  damped,  so  much  the  more  should  it  not  be  put 
there  if  it  was  once  taken  off  ?"  Come  and  hear.  There  being 
two  parts  in  our  Mishna,  if  the  point  of  controversy  is  the  leav- 
ing (of  the  victuals  on  the  stove,  if  they  were  there  before), 
the  Mishna  is  to  be  explained  thus:  On  the  stove  that  was 
heated  with  straw  or  with  stubble  the  victuals  may  be  left ;  on 
a  stove  that  was  heated  with  pressed  poppy  seed  or  with  wood, 
the  victuals  may  be  left  only  if  the  live  coals  were  taken  out  or 
covered  with  ashes.  What  kind  of  victuals  may  be  left  there  ? 
According  to  Beth  Shamai  such  as  are  to  be  kept  warm,  but  not 
such  as  improve  by  cooking.  And  according  to  Beth  Hillel 
both.  Thus  the  point  of  controversy  is  the  leaving  of  the  vic- 
tuals (that  had  been  on  the  stove  before).  And  as  the  (two 
schools)  differ  in  this  matter,  so  do  they  also  differ  in  their  opin- 
ions concerning  putting  them  back  upon  the  stove  if  they  were 
once  taken  off.     But  if  you  interpret  the  Mishna  to  make  the 


64  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

returning  of  the  victuals  to  the  stove  the  point  of  their  differing 
— viz.,  what  kind  of  victuals  should  be  returned  (to  the  stove), 
according  to  the  former  such  as  are  to  be  kept  warm,  but  not 
such  as  improve  by  cooking,  and  according  to  the  latter,  both. 
(If  you  put  such  a  construction  upon  the  text  of  the  Mishna,)  to 
what  purpose  is  it  repeated  ?  "  Beth  Shamai  says,"  etc.  It  may 
be  said  even  that  they  differ  concerning  putting  back,  and  never- 
theless there  is  no  difficulty,  as  the  Mishna  is  not  complete,  and 
should  read  thus:  "  If  the  stove  was  heated  .  .  .  but  if 
they  stood  there  before,  they  may  be  left  there,  even  if  the  live 
coals  are  not  taken  out  or  covered  with  ashes."  And  what  may 
be  left  ?  Beth  Shamai  says  only  such  as  are  to  be  kept  warm, 
and  Beth  Hillel  says  even  victuals  requiring  cooking;  but  even 
in  the  case  of  returning  (the  victuals  to  the  stove,  if  they  have 
been  removed)  there  is  still  a  difference  of  opinion  between  the 
two  schools,  for  according  to  the  former  they  may  be  only  taken 
off,  and  according  to  the  latter  they  may  be  returned  also. 

Come*  and  hear.  R.  Helbo  in  the  name  of  R.  Hama  b. 
Gorion,  quoting  Rabh,  said:  "The  Mishna  speaks  only  about 
putting  the  victuals  upon  the  stove,  but  as  to  putting  them  into 
the  stove  it  is  surely  prohibited."  Now,  if  thou  sayest  the  dis- 
pute is  about  returning  (the  pot  to  the  stove),  this  remark  is 
correct,  for  there  is  a  difference  to  what  place  it  is  returned, 
whether  into  the  stove  or  upon  it ;  but  if  the  question  were 
about  keeping  it  on  the  stove  while  it  is  there,  what  difference 
would  it  make  ? 

Do  you  think  R.  Helbo's  report  refers  to  the  first  part  of 
the  Mishna  ?  It  refers  to  the  second  part,  in  which  Beth  Hillel 
allows  it  to  be  returned ;  and  to  this  he  says,  even  in  this  case, 
upon  the  stove  it  is  permissible,  but  not  into  the  stove. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  "  May  (a  pot  with 
victuals)  be  placed  so  as  to  touch  the  side  of  the  stove  ?  Does 
the  prohibition  which  holds  good  for  putting  it  into  or  upon  the 
stove  apply  also  here,  or  is  touching  its  side  a  different  case  ?" 
Come  and  hear.  "  A  stove  that  was  heated  with  pressed  poppy 
seed  or  wood  may  (be  used)  to  put  a  pot  alongside  of,  but  not 
on,  unless  the  live  coals  were  taken  out  or  covered  with  ashes." 
If  the  coals  get  dim  or  fine  hurds  were  put  upon  them,  they  ar^ 
considered  as  if  their  fire  was  damped  with  ashes.     R.  Itz'haU 

*  Here  the  disciple  who  advanced  the  later  construction  of  the  Mishna  turns  th)| 
tables  on  his  interlocutor  and  brings  forward  an  argument  in  favor  of  his  suggestion, 
introducing  it  with  the  same  words  as  the  previous  speaker  in  his  argument. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  65 

b.  Na'hmani  in  the  name  of  R.  Oshia  says:  If  the  fire  was 
damped  and  still  it  got  a-glowing,  victuals  that  are  sufificiently 
warm,  and  cooked  meats  that  require  no  more  cooking,  may 
be  left  standing  upon  it. 

Is  it  to  be  inferred  from  this  that,  if  victuals  are  improved  by 
shrivelling  (upon  the  fire),  they  may  be  left  there  ?  This  is 
a  different  case,  for  the  fire  was  damped.  If  such  is  the  case, 
what  came  R.  Itz'hak  to  teach  ?  "  Lest  one  say  that  if  the  fire 
got  to  glowing  again,  it  is  to  be  considered  as  a  fire  originally 
started  ?  "  R.  Itz'hak  lets  us  know  that,  when  once  a  fire  haj 
been  damped,  we  need  have  no  further  scruples  about  letting 
the  victuals  remain  on  it. 

R.  Shesheth  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  Victuals  that 
require  additional  warming  or  additional  cooking  may  be  left 
upon  a  stove  that  was  heated  with  pressed  poppy  seed  or  with 
wood ;  but  if  they  were  once  removed,  they  shall  not  be  replaced 
unless  the  live  coals  were  taken  out  or  covered  with  ashes.  He 
was  of  the  opinion  that  our  Mishna  (treats)  of  replacing  (a  re- 
moved pot),  but  allows  (a  pot  that  was  not  removed)  to  be  left 
on  the  stove,  even  if  the  live  coals  are  not  taken  out  or  covered 
with  ashes.  Said  Rabha:  "Were  not  both  (propositions)  ex- 
pounded in  the  Boraithoth  (that  were  cited)?"  Aye,  but  R. 
Shesheth  merely  wishes  to  exhibit  his  construction  of  the  text 
of  the  Mishna. 

R.  Samuel  b.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said: 
Upon  a  stove  that  was  heated  with  pressed  poppy  seed  or  wood, 
victuals  may  be  left  standing,  if  they  are  sufficiently  warmed 
and  sufficiently  cooked,  even  if  shrivelling  improves  them.  Said 
one  of  the  schoolmen  to  him :  "  Did  not  Rabh  and  Samuel  both 
say  that  if  shrivelling  improves  them,  it  is  not  allowed  ?  And 
he  answered:  "  I  said  this  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  and  not 
in  the  name  of  the  above  mentioned,  as  I  am  aware  of  it."  R. 
Uqba  of  Mishan  said  to  R.  Ashi :  "  You,  who  cherish  the  teach- 
ings of  Rabh  and  Samuel,  may  follow  their  regulation,  but  we 
will  follow  the  regulation  of  R.  Johanan." 

Abayi  questioned  R.  Joseph:  May  victuals  be  Idft  (on  the 
stove)  ?  And  he  answered:  Did  not  R.  Jehudah  leave  (victuals 
on  the  stove),  and  eat  them  afterward  ?  Rejoined  Abayi: 
The  case  of  R.  Jehudah  cannot  be  taken  into  consideration. 
He  was  stricken  with  a  dangerous  disease,  and  for  him  even  (the 
cooking  of  victuals)  on  the  Sabbath  was  permitted ;  but  I  ask 
about  (healthy  men  like)  you  and  me.    R.  Joseph  answered:  "  In 

VOL.    I.— 5 


66  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Sura  they  do  leave.  As  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak,  who  was  ex- 
emplary in  following  religious  ordinances,  was  wont  to  leave  and 
to  eat." 

R.  Ashi  said:  "  I  was  standing  before  R.  Huna  and  observed 
that  fried  fish  was  kept  (warm)  for  him  and  he  ate  it;  but  I 
know  not  whether  (he  did  it)  because  he  thought  that  victuals 
which  improve  by  shrivelling  are  allowed,  or  whether  he  thought 
that,  because  there  was  flour  on  his  fish,  continuous  warming 
did  not  improve  it. 

R.  Na'hman  said :  (Victuals)  that  improve  by  shrivelling  must 
not  (be  left  on  the  stove) ;  such  as  deteriorate  may.  The  rule 
is  that  all  victuals  which  contain  flour  deteriorate  by  continuous 
warming. 

R.  Hyya  b.  Ahba  was  questioned:  "  If  one  forgot  his  pot 
and  left  it  upon  the  stove,  and  the  victuals  were  thus  cooked  on 
the  Sabbath,  may  he  eat  them  or  not  ?"  The  master  gave  no 
answer.  The  next  time  he  lectured :  Victuals  cooked  on  the 
Sabbath  unintentionally  may  be  eaten;  intentionally  not,  but 
(as  regards  the  pot  that  is  forgotten  on  the  stove)  it  makes  no 
difference. 

What  does  (the  phrase)  "  it  makes  no  difference"  mean? 
Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  both  say  that  the  phrase  implies  that  it 
may  be  eaten,  for  one  who  cooks  acts  intentionally ;  but  when 
forgotten  there  was  no  act,  and  therefore  he  may  eat  it.  But 
R.  Na'hman  b.  Isaac  says  the  above  phrase  of  "  it  makes  no 
difference  "  implies  a  prohibition.  In  the  case  of  cooking  there 
is  no  fear  of  craft ;  therefore  if  he  has  done  it  unintentionally, 
he  is  not  fined;  but  in  the  case  of  forgetting  (the  pot  in  the  fire) 
craft  may  be  feared  (it  means  that  he  may  put  it  in  intentionally 
saying  that  he  forgot),  and  therefore  even  if  he  actually  forgets 
he  is  not  allowed  to  eat  the  victuals. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  "  What  about  one 
who  had  intentionally  left  (his  victuals  upon  the  stove)  ?  Do 
the  rabbis  fine  him  or  not?"  Come  and  hear.  Samuel  b. 
Nathan  in  the  name  of  R.  Hanina  said:  "  When  R.  Jose  went 
to  Ziporis,  he  found  warm  meats  that  had  been  left  upon  the 
stove,  and  he  did  not  prohibit  their  use,  but  shrivelled  eggs  that 
had  been  left  upon  the  stove  he  prohibited.  Shall  we  not 
assume  that  he  forbade  their  use  even  on  that  Sabbath  as  a 
fine  ?     Nay,  he  forbade  their  use  for  the  following  Sabbath." 

From  this  is  to  be  inferred  that  shrivelled  eggs  improve  by 
continuous  heating.     As  R.  Hama  b.  Hanina  said:  "  Rabbi  and 


TRACT   SABBATH.  67 

I  were  once  stopping  at  a  certain  place.  We  were  treated  with 
eggs  shrivelled  like  wild  pears,  and  we  ate  many  of  them." 

''It  may  also  be  put  back:'  R.  Shesheth  said:  The  Tana 
who  holds  that  the  pot  may  also  be  put  back  (upon  the  stove) 
allows  this  (to  be  done)  even  on  the  Sabbath.  R.  Oshia  is  also 
of  the  same  opinion,  for  thus  he  said:  "  We  were  once  standing 
before  R.  Hyya  the  Great ;  we  served  him  with  a  bowl  of  warm 
(soup),  which  was  brought  from  the  lower  floor  (of  the  house), 
and  we  mixed  a  cup  of  wine  for  him,  and  (afterward)  we  returned 
it  (the  bowl)  to  its  place,  and  he  said  nothing."  And  R.  Hyya 
in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said :  Even  if  (the  warm  pot  taken 
off  from  the  stove)  was  put  upon  the  ground,  it  may  (still  be 
put  back  on  the  stove).  Said  Hyskiyah  in  the  name  of  Abayi : 
"  According  to  them  who  hold  that  if  he  puts  it  on  the  floor  it 
may  not  be  returned,  it  is  said  only  when  it  was  not  his  inten- 
tion to  return  it.  But  if  it  was,  he  may.  And  from  this  it  is 
to  be  inferred  that  if  it  was  still  in  his  hand,  although  his  inten- 
tion was  not  to  place  it  again,  he  may  do  so  on  reconsideration." 

MISHNA  //. :  (Victuals)  shall  not  be  put  either  inside  or  on 
top  of  an  oven  that  was  heated  with  straw  or  with  stubble ;  a 
firing-pot  that  was  heated  with  straw  or  with  stubble  is  (con- 
sidered by  the  law)  as  a  stone,  but  if  it  was  heated  with  pressed 
poppy  seed  or  with  wood  it  is  considered  as  an  oven. 

GEMARA :  A  Boraitha  teaches:  If  an  oven  was  heated  with 
straw  or  with  stubble,  (a  pot  with  victuals)  shall  not  be  put  close 
to  it  (so  that  it  touch  the  oven),  the  less  so  upon  it,  and  still 
less  so  into  it ;  so  much  the  less  shall  (a  pot)  be  put  (alongside  of 
an  oven)  that  was  heated  with  poppy-seed  pulp  or  with  wood. 
If  a  firing-pot  was  heated  with  straw  or  with  stubble,  (a  pot) 
may  be  put  close  to  it,  but  not  upon  it;  with  poppy-seed  pulp 
or  with  wood  it  must  not  be  put  close  to  it.  Said  R.  Aha  b. 
Rabha  to  R.  Ashi:  "  How  shall  the  firing-pot  be  considered  ? 
If  it  is  like  a  stove,  even  if  heated  with  poppy-seed  pulp  or  with 
wood  (a  pot  shall  be  allowed  to  be  put  close  to  it) ;  and  if  it  is 
like  an  oven  it  should  not,  even  if  it  is  heated  with  stubble  or 
straw?"  Answered  he:  It  contains  more  heat  than  a  stove 
and  less  heat  than  an  oven. 

What  is  a  firing-pot  and  what  is  a  stove  ?  Said  R.  Jose  b. 
Hanina:  "  A  firing-pot  has  an  opening  on  the  top  upon  which 
only  one  pot  can  be  set ;  a  stove  has  openings  upon  which  two 
pots  can  be  set  at  a  time." 

MISHNA  ///. :  An  egg  shall  not  be  put  close  to  a  boiler  to 


68  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

get  it  settled;  nor  must  it  be  wrapped  in  a  hot  cloth.  R.  Jose 
permits  it;  also  it  must  not  be  put  into  hot  sand  or  in  the  (hot) 
dust  of  the  road  that  it  be  roasted  (by  the  heat  of  the  sun).  It 
once  happened  that  the  inhabitants  of  Tiberias  had  laid  a  pipe 
of  cold  water  through  the  arm  of  their  hot  springs.  But  the 
sages  explained  to  them  that  on  the  Sabbath  this  water  is  con- 
sidered like  any  other  warmed  on  the  Sabbath,  and  must  not 
be  used  either  for  washing  or  drinking;  and  should  this  be  done 
on  a  feast  day,  it  is  like  water  heated  by  fire,  which  may  be  used 
for  drinking  only,  but  not  for  washing. 

GEMARA:  The  schoolmen  questioned:  How  is  it  if  one 
has  done  so  with  an  egg  ?  Said  R.  Joseph :  He  is  liable  for 
a  sin-offering.  Said  Mar  b.  Rabhina:  This  is  to  be  understood 
also  from  the  following  Boraitha :  Everything  that  was  in  hot 
water  before  the  Sabbath  may  be  soaked  in  hot  water  on  the 
Sabbath ;  things  that  were  not  in  hot  water  before  the  Sabbath 
may  only  be  rinsed  in  it,  excepting  old  herrings  and  Spanish 
(salted)  fish,  because  with  these,  rinsing  completes  their  prepara- 
tion. (The  same  is  the  cas&  with  an  egg;  the  settling  com- 
pletes.) 

"  Nor  shall  it  be  ivrappcd,''  etc.  Now,  the  Mishna  which 
states:  "  Cooked  victuals  may  be  put  into  a  pit  for  preserva- 
tion ;  drinking  water  into  cold  bad  water  to  cool ;  cold  victuals 
in  the  sun  to  warm."  Shall  we  assume  that  it  is  in  accordance 
with  R.  Jose  and  not  with  the  sages  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman:  As  to 
the  heat  of  the  sun,  all  agree  that  it  is  allowed;  the  outcome  of 
heating  by  fire,  all  agree  that  it  is  prohibited.  The  point  of 
their  differing  is  the  outcome  of  sun-heating.  The  one  master 
holds  that  the  use  of  such  heat  Is  prohibited  for  fear  lest  one 
use  also  the  heat  that  is  generated  by  fire;  the  other  master 
does  not  impose  such  a  precautionary  measure. 

"  It  happened  that  the  inhabitants  of  Tiberias,''  etc.  R.  Hisda 
said :  With  the  prohibition  by  the  rabbis  of  the  act  of  the  Tibe- 
rians  they  have  also  abolished  the  permission  to  heat  on  Friday, 
even  when  it  is  yet  day,  in  such  places  as  increase  heat.  Said 
Ulla:  "The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  Tiberians." 
Rejoined  R.  Na'hman:  "  The  Tiberians  themselves  have  already 
destroyed  their  pipes."  "  Washing  with  warm  water,"  how  is 
this  to  be  understood  ?  The  whole  body  ?  Is  this  prohibited 
only  with  water  that  was  warmed  on  Sabbath  ?  Is  it  not  the 
same  even  when  it  was  warmed  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  ?  As  the 
following  Boraitha  states : ' '  With  water  which  was  warmed  on  the 


TRACT   SABBATH.  69 

eve  of  Sabbath,  on  the  morrow  one  may  wash  his  face,  hands, 
and  feet,  but  not  the  whole  body.  And  if  it  means  the  face, 
etc.,  how  is  the  latter  part  to  be  understood  ?"  "  If  it  was 
warmed  on  a  feast  day,"  etc. 

Shall  we  then  assume  that  our  Mishna  states  in  accordance 
with  Beth  Shamai,  as  they  so  state  plainly  elsewhere,  to 
which  the  Beth  Hillel  opposed  and  permitted  ?  Said  R.  lyqa 
b.  Hanina:  Our  Mishna  treats  of  washing  the  entire  body,  and  it 
is  in  accordance  with  the  Tana  of  the  following  Boraitha:  "  One 
shall  not  rinse  his  entire  body  (on  the  Sabbath)  either  with 
warm  or  with  cold  water."  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Mair,  but 
R.  Simeon  permits  this.  R.  Hisda  says  their  dispute  concerns 
only  (water  that  is)  in  the  ground;  but  water  contained  in  a 
vessel  is  strictly  prohibited. 

Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said:  "  The 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah."  Said  R.  Joseph 
to  him:  "  Didst  thou  hear  this  explicitly,  or  dost  thou  derive  it 
by  inference  (from  a  similar  teaching)  ? "  "I  have  heard  it  ex- 
plicitly," he  answered. 

It  was  taught :  If  water  was  warmed  on  Friday,  Rabh  said 
one  may  wash  his  entire  body  in  it  on  the  next  day,  every  mem- 
ber separately  {i.e.,  not  plunge  into  it  at  once).  Samuel,  how- 
ever, said:  It  was  not  allowed  but  of  the  face,  hands,  and  feet. 
And  the  following  Boraitha  supports  Samuel:  "  If  water  was 
warmed  on  Friday,  one  may  wash  his  face,  hands,  and  feet  with 
it  on  the  following  day,  but  not  his  entire  body,  even  member 
by  member;  and  so  much  less  with  water  warmed  on  a  feast 
day." 

Said  R.  Joseph  to  Abayi :  "  Did  Rabba  not  act  according  to 
the  decisions  of  Rabh  ? "     "I  know  not,"  he  answered. 

The  rabbis  taught:  A  bath-house,  the  openings  of  which 
were  stopped  up  on  Friday  (so  that  the  heat  should  not  escape), 
may  be  used  for  bathing  immediately  after  the  Sabbath  is  over. 
If  its  openings  were  stopped  up  on  the  eve  of  a  feast  day,  one 
may,  on  the  next  day,  enter  it  to  have  a  sweat,  but  he  must 
leave  it  and  rinse  his  hands  in  an  adjoining  room.  R.  Jehudah 
said:  It  happened  in  a  bath-house  of  the  city  of  B'nai  Beraq, 
that  its  openings  were  stopped  up  on  the  eve  of  a  feast  day. 
The  next  day  R.  Eliezer  b.  Azariah  and  R.  Aqiba  entered  it 
and  took  a  sweat ;  then  they  left  it  and  rinsed  their  bodies  in 
the  adjoining  room;  but  the  warm  water  in  it  had  been  covered 
with  boards.     When  the  report  of  this  reached  the  masters  they 


70  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

said,  even  if  the  warm  water  had  not  been  covered  with  boards, 
they  were  also  allowed  (to  do  so).  However,  since  transgress- 
ing began  to  increase,  they  began  to  prohibit.  In  bath-houses 
of  large  cities  one  may  walk  about  without  fear  of  people's  say- 
ing that  he  went  to  take  a  sweat. 

What  does  the  expression  "  transgressing"  mean  ?  As  R. 
Simeon  b.  Pazi  in  the  name  of  R.  Joshua  b.  Levi,  quoting  bar 
Qapara,  said:  In  former  times  the  people  were  accustomed  to 
bathe  (on  the  Sabbath)  in  water  that  was  warmed  on  Friday. 
The  bath-keepers  then  began  to  warm  the  water  on  the  Sab- 
bath, and  to  tell  the  people  that  it  had  been  warmed  on  Friday. 
Hereupon  they  prohibited  bathing  in  warm  water,  but  still  they 
placed  no  restriction  upon  taking  a  sweating  (in  the  bath-room). 
The  people  then  would  come  and  bathe,  but  pretend  to  merely 
take  a  sweating.  Then  sweating  was  also  prohibited,  but  wash- 
ing in  the  hot  spring  water  of  Tiberias  was  still  allowed.  The 
people,  however,  would  come  and  wash  themselves  in  water 
that  was  warmed  by  the  fire  and  say  that  they  washed  in  the 
hot  spring  water.  Subsequently  warm  water  was  prohibited  for 
bathing  altogether,  but  bathing  in  cold  water  was  allowed.  See- 
ing that  people  could  not  stand  the  last  prohibition,  it  was  there- 
fore revoked,  and  bathing  in  the  hot  spring  water  of  Tiberias 
was  allowed.  The  prohibition  of  the  sweating  bath,  however, 
remained.  The  rabbis  taught :  One  may  warm  himself  by  a 
hearth-fire  and  afterwards  rinse  himself  with  cold  water,  but  not 
bathe  first  in  cold  water  and  then  warm  himself  by  a  hearth-fire, 
because  he  warms  the  water  that  is  on  him. 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  may  warm  a  sponging-cloth  and  put 
it  upon  his  bowels  (on  the  Sabbath),  but  he  must  not  do  so  with 
a  boiling  hot  vessel,  for  this  is  dangerous  even  on  week  days. 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  may  put  a  pitcher  of  water  before 
a  blazing  fire,  not  to  warm  it,  but  to  temper  the  coldness  of  the 
water.  R.  Judah  said:  A  woman  may  put  an  oil  flask  before 
a  blazing  fire,  not  to  boil  it,  but  merely  to  temper  it.  R. 
Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  says:  A  woman  may  unhesitatingly  put  oil 
on  her  hand,  warm  it  before  the  fire,  and  anoint  her  little  son 
with  it  without  any  fear. 

Said  R.  Judah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  Whether  it  be  oil  or 
water,  if  the  hand  is  spontaneously  withdrawn  from  it  (feeling 
the  scald)  it  is  prohibited,  but  not  otherwise.  And  what  extent 
of  heat  is  meant  by  it  ?  Said  Rabba:  If  the  belly  of  a  child  is 
scalded  by  it. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  71 

R.  Itz'hak  b.  Abhdimi  said:  "  I  once  followed  Rabbi  into 
the  bath-house  (on  the  Sabbath).  I  wanted  to  put  a  bottle  of 
oil  for  him  into  the  tank  (that  contained  hot  spring  water).  Said 
he  unto  me:  "  Take  out  some  warm  water  from  the  tank  and 
put  it  into  another  vessel  (to  warm  the  oil  in).  From  this  we 
have  inferred  three  things— viz. :  First,  that  oil  improves  by 
warming,  and  it  is  a  prohibited  act;  second,  that  if  anything  is 
put  into  a  second  vessel  (not  directly  into  the  boiling  vessel)  it 
is  not  considered  cooking;  third,  that  the  mere  tempering  of 
oil  is  analogous  to  cooking  it. 

Said  Rabhina:  From  this  story  it  may  be  inferred  that  if 
one  cooks  in  the  hot  spring  water  of  Tiberias  on  the  Sabbath 
he  is  culpable,  for  the  case  happened  after  the  rabbis  had  im- 
posed the  precautionary  measure,  and  yet  Rabbi  would  not 
allow  him  (R.  Itz'hak)  to  put  the  oil  directly  into  the  tank.  Is 
that  so  ?  Did  not  R.  Hisda  say  that  he  who  has  cooked  in  the 
hot  spring  water  of  Tiberias  is  not  culpable  ?  The  culpability  to 
be  inferred  (from  the  case  of  Rabbi)  extends  only  as  far  as  blows 
of  correction  *  are  concerned. 

R.  Zera  said:  "  I  have  seen  R.  Abuhu  swimming  in  a  tank, 
and  I  know  not  whether  he  raised  (his  feet  from  the  ground)  or 
not.  Is  it  not  self-evident  that  he  did  not  raise  them,  as  there 
is  a  Boraitha:  One  shall  not  swim  about  in  a  pond,  even  if  (that 
pond)  is  stationed  in  a  yard.  This  presents  no  dif^culty.  In  a 
pond  it  is  prohibited,  because  it  is  similar  to  a  river,  while  in  a 
tank  it  is  allowed,  because  it  is  similar  to  a  vessel. f 

R.  Zera  once  found  R.  Jehudah  in  the  bath.  He  (R.  Jehu- 
dah)  ordered  his  servant  (in  the  Hebrew  Aramaic  tongue): 
"  Bring  me  the  comb;  hand  me  the  soap;  open  your  mouths, 
and  exhale  the  warm  air  from  within  you ;  drink  of  the  (warm) 
water  of  the  bath."  Said  R.  Zera:  "  If  I  had  not  come  but  to 
hear  this,  it  were  enough  for  me." 

It  is  correct  that  he  ordered  things  in  the  Hebrew  language, 
as  private  affairs  may  be  said  in  the  same  language.  The  same 
is  with  the  second  order,  for  Samuel  said  that  heat  (from  with- 
out) drives  out  heat  (from  within).  But  what  good  is  in  the 
order,  "  Drink  of  the  water  of  the  bath  "  ?  It  is  also  correct,  as 
we  have  learned  in  the   following   Boraitha:  "  If  one  washed 

*  "  Blows  of  correction"  were  inflicted  by  the  rabbis  not  for  an  actual  sin,  but 
for  disobedience  to  the  laws  enacted. 

t  We  have  translated  in  accordance  with  Rashi's  second  view,  as  it  seems  to  us  to 
be  correct. 


72  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

himself  with  warm  water  and  did  not  drink  of  it,  he  is  like  an 
oven  that  was  heated  from  without  but  not  from  within." 

MISHNA  IV.:  The  hot  water  contained  in  a  "  Muliar  " 
(caldron),  the  live  coals  of  which  have  been  cleared  away  before 
the  Sabbath  set  in,  may  be  used  on  the  Sabbath ;  but  the  hot 
water  contained  in  an  "  Antikhi  "  (another  kind  of  kettle),  even 
if  cleared  of  live  coals,  is  not  to  be  used  on  the  Sabbath. 

GEMARA:  What  is  a  Muliar  ?  A  Boraitha  states:  "It  is 
a  vessel  provided  with  an  attachment  for  live  coals,  used  for 
keeping  water";  as  for  an  Antikhi,  Rabba  says  it  is  a  Bekiri 
(a  vessel  similar  to  a  Muliar,  but  of  heavier  construction  and 
continually  in  use).  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  says:  It  is  a  Bedude 
(a  large  kettle  with  an  attachment  underneath  for  live  coals). 
There  is  a  Boraitha  in  support  of  the  opinion  of  R.  Na'hman: 
"  The  hot  water  in  an  Antikhi,  even  if  the  coals  thereof  are 
cleared  away  or  damped,  is  not  permitted  to  be  used,  for  the 
heavy  bottom  keeps  the  heat." 

MISHNA  V. :  Into  a  kettle,  the  hot  water  of  which  has 
been  spilt  out  and  which  has  been  removed  from  the  fire,  cold 
water  is  not  permitted  to  be  poured,  for  the  purpose  of  heating; 
but  it  is  permitted  to  pour  water  into  the  kettle,  or  into  a  cup, 
for  the  purpose  of  making  such  water  lukewarm. 

GEMARA:  How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  Said  Abayi:  It 
means  thus :  "  Into  a  kettle,  the  fire  of  which  has  been  removed, 
which  still  contains  hot  water,  a  small  quantity  of  cold  water 
may  not  be  poured,  for  the  purpose  of  warming;  but  a  large 
quantity,  to  make  the  hot  water  lukewarm  is,  however,  per- 
mitted. Into  a  kettle,  the  hot  water  of  which  has  been  entirely 
removed,  no  cold  water  at  all  may  be  poured,  because  it  tem- 
pers the  vessel.  And  it  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah,  who 
holds  that  an  act  which  pleases  one,  if  done  even  unintentionally, 
is  prohibited. 

Said  Rabh:  "  Even  the  above-mentioned  large  quantity  is 
allowed  only  to  make  the  water  lukewarm  ;  but  not  such  a  quan- 
tity as  will  entirely  neutralize  the  hot  water  and  tend  to  temper 
the  vessel."     Samuel,  however,  permits  any  quantity. 

Shall  we  assume  that  Samuel  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon 
(who  opposes  the  above  theory  of  R.  Jehudah),  but  did  he  not 
say  that  it  is  permitted  to  extinguish  live  dross  on  public  ground 
(to  prevent  injury),  but  not  charcoal  ?  And  if  he  agrees  with 
R.  Simeon,  this  also  should  be  permitted  ?  As  regards  labor 
tending  to  the  accomplishment  of  a  work  (prohibited  on  the 


TRACT    SABBATH.  73 

Sabbath),  he  holds  with  R.  Simeon ;  but  as  to  the  performance 
of  labor,  not  for  its  own  sake,  he  sides  with  R.  Jehudah.  Said 
Rabina:  "  Since  it  is  permitted  to  perform  labor  (prohibited  by- 
rabbinical  law),  in  order  to  prevent  injury,  it  is  also  permitted 
to  remove  thorns  from  public  ground,  little  by  little,  in  dis- 
tances of  less  than  four  ells  at  a  time  (in  order  to  prevent 
injury);  but  upon  unclaimed  ground  it  maybe  done  in  greater 
distances." 

"  But  it  is  permitted,'"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  One  may 
pour  hot  water  upon  cold,  but  not  cold  upon  hot  water,  so  is 
the  decree  of  Beth  Shamai ;  Beth  Hillel,  however,  allows  both 
•ways,  provided  a  cup  is  used ;  but  in  a  bathing-tub  hot  water 
upon  cold  is  permitted,  but  cold  water  upon  warm  is  not.  But 
R.  Simeon  b.  Menassiah  forbids  it.  And  Na'hman  said  that  so 
the  Halakha  prevails.  R.  Joseph  was  about  to  say  that  a 
bucket  is  under  the  same  ruling  as  a  bathing-tub.  Said  Abayi 
to  him:  "So  taught  R.  Hyya,  that  a  bucket  is  not  in  this 
category. 

Said  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Joshua:  "  I  observed  that  Rabha  was 
not  scrupulous  with  regard  to  the  use  of  vessels,  because  R. 
Hyya  taught,  one  may  put  a  pitcher  of  water  into  a  bucket  of 
water;  it  makes  no  difference  whether  it  be  hot  water  into  cold 
ox  vice  versa.''  Said  R.  Huna  to  R.  Ashi:  "  Perhaps  this  was 
a  different  case  altogether,  it  being  that  there  was  a  vessel  within 
a  vessel !  "  But  the  latter  retorted  :  "  It  says :  '  To  empty  ' ;  as 
it  was  taught:  It  is  permitted  to  empty  out  a  pitcher  of  water 
into  a  bucket  of  water,  be  it  either  warm  water  into  cold  or  vice 
versa. 

MISHNA  VI. :  In  a  saucepan  or  a  pot  that  was  removed 
from  the  fire,  no  spices  shall  be  put  after  dusk  (on  Friday);  but 
spices  may  be  put  into  a  plate  or  a  bowl.  R.  Jehudah  is  of  the 
opinion  that  spices  may  be  put  in  all  vessels  or  cooking  utensils 
except  in  such  as  contain  vinegar  or  fish  brine. 

GEMARA:  The  schoolmen  propounded  the  following  ques- 
tion :  Does  R.  Jehudah  refer  to  the  first  part  of  the  Mishna, 
which  is  lenient,  or  does  he  refer  to  the  latter  part,  which  is 
rigorous  ?  Come  and  hear.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha 
that  R.  Jehudah  says:  "  One  may  put  (spices)  into  all  sauce- 
pans and  cooking-pots,  except  such  as  contain  vinegar  and  fish 
brine." 

R.  Joseph  was  about  to  say  that  salt  comes  under  the  same 
ruling  as  spices,  because  in  his  opinion  salt  becomes  cooked  in  a 


74  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

first  vessel  {i.e.,  the  vessel  used  for  cooking),  but  not  in  a  second 
vessel.  Said  Abayi  to  him:  R.  Hyya  distinctly  taught  that 
salt  does  not  come  under  the  ruling  applicable  to  spices,  because 
it  does  not  become  cooked,  even  in  a  first  vessel.  This  is  cor- 
roborated by  R.  Na'hman,  who  said:  There  is  a  saying  that  the 
dissolving  of  salt  requires  thorough  boiling,  the  same  as  beef. 

MISHNA  VII. :  It  is  not  permitted  to  place  a  vessel  under 
a  lamp  so  that  the  oil  of  the  lamp  drip  into  it.  If  a  vessel  was 
placed  under  a  lamp  before  the  Sabbath  set  in,  it  may  remain 
there ;  but  the  use  of  such  oil  on  the  same  Sabbath  is  not  per- 
mitted, as  it  was  not  previously  prepared. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Hisda:  "  Although  it  was  said  that  the 
placing  of  a  vessel  under  a  hen  (laying  on  sloping  ground)  to 
receive  the  egg  is  forbidden,  yet  to  cover  the  Qgg  so  as  to  pre- 
vent it  from  being  crushed  is  permitted." 

Said  Rabba:  The  reason  of  R.  Hisda  is  because  he  holds 
that  hens  being  in  the  habit  of  laying  eggs  on  level  ground,  in 
order  to  prevent  the  egg  from  being  stepped  upon,  it  is  per- 
mitted to  cover  it  with  a  vessel ;  but  as  hens  are  not  in  the  habit 
of  laying  eggs  on  sloping  ground,  the  placing  of  a  vessel  under 
the  hen  to  receive  the  egg  was  not  allowed. 

Abayi  objected  to  this,  stating:  "Were  we  not  taught  in 
the  Mishna  that  it  is  permitted  to  place  a  vessel  under  a  lamp 
in  order  to  take  up  the  (dropping)  sparks?"  (This  seldom 
occurs  and  therefore  it  is  permitted.)  He  was  told  that  the 
dropping  of  sparks  by  a  lamp  is  also  of  frequent  occurrence. 

R.  Joseph,  commenting  on  the  statement  of  R.  Hisda,  gave 
another  reason — viz. :  That  the  vessel  (placed  under  a  hen  to 
receive  an  egg)  is  made  useless  for  that  same  Sabbath. 

Abayi  raised  the  same  objection,  (intending  to)  prove  by  it 
that  the  vessel  placed  under  a  lamp  is  also  made  useless  on  that 
same  Sabbath,  and  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Joshua  answered:  "  Sparks 
have  nothing  substantial  about  them  (therefore  the  vessel  con- 
taining them  is  not  made  useless  on  the  same  Sabbath)." 

R.  Itz'hak  said:  In  the  same  manner  as  it  is  not  permitted 
to  place  a  vessel  under  a  laying  hen,  so  is  it  also  not  permitted 
to  cover  the  egg  laid ;  for  the  reason  that  a  vessel  must  not  be 
handled  on  the  Sabbath  except  for  the  use  of  such  things  as  are 
themselves  permitted  to  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath. 

All  the  objections  of  Abayi  being  raised  against  R.  Itz'hak's 
statements,  he  answered:  "  In  that  case  there  was  a  lack  of 
space."     (If  the  space  occupied  by  a  vessel  is  needed,  that  ves- 


TRACT    SABBATH.  75 

sel  may  be  removed,  and  while  being  removed  may  be  used  for 
any  purpose.) 

Come  and  hear  (another  objection).  An  egg  laid  on  the  Sab- 
»  bath  or  a  festival,  to  prevent  it  from  being  (accidentally)  cracked, 
may  be  covered  with  a  vessel  ?  Here  the  case  is,  also,  when 
the  space  where  the  vessel  is  placed  is  needed. 

Said  R.  Shesheth  (to  his  disciples) :  Go  ye  and  tell  R.  Itz'hak 
that  the  above  doctrine  has  already  been  interpreted  by  R.  Huna 
in  Babylon  as  follows:  It  is  permitted  to  make  a  partition  on 
the  Sabbath,  to  (isolate)  a  corpse  for  the  sake  of  the  living,  but 
it  is  not  permitted  to  make  a  partition  for  the  sake  of  the  corpse. 
How  is  the  latter  clause  to  be  understood  ?  R.  Samuel  b. 
Jehudah  and  also  Shila  Mari  taught:  In  the  case  of  a  corpse 
lying  in  the  sun  (on  the  Sabbath),  (to  prevent  the  corpse  from 
decomposing)  two  persons  are  brought  to  sit  on  the  floor,  each 
on  one  side  (in  order  to  bring  about  the  making  of  a  screen). 
When  the  ground  underneath  them  becomes  hot,  each  of  them 
is  to  bring  a  cot  bed  to  sit  upon,  and  when  the  heat  above  them 
becomes  excessive,  they  are  to  bring  a  sheet  and  spread  it  over 
their  heads  (leaving  part  of  the  sheet  loose);  both  now  raise 
their  cots  (which  take  up  the  loose  part  of  the  sheet)  and  move 
to  their  former  positions ;  thus  a  screen  (canopy)  is  formed  of 
itself. 

It  was  taught:  "  A  corpse  lying  in  the  sun."  R.  Jehudah 
in  the  name  of  Samuel  says:  The  same  must  be  turned  over 
from  one  bed  into  another,  until  it  arrives  at  a  shady  place. 
R.  Hinna  b.  Shalmi  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said :  A  loaf  of  bread 
or  an  infant  should  be  put  on  the  corpse  and  then  the  corpse 
may  be  moved.  There  is  no  difference  of  opinion  as  to  the 
removal  of  a  corpse  (on  the  Sabbath),  which  is  permitted  when 
a  loaf  or  an  infant  is  put  upon  it ;  they  differ  only  where  there 
is  none.  One  holds  that  indirect  transportation  must  be  con- 
sidered transportation,  and  the  other  opines  that  indirect  trans- 
portation is  not  transportation  (and  therefore  permitted). 

Shall  we  assume  that  on  this  point  the  following  Tanaim 
differ?  "It  is  not  permitted  to  save  a  corpse  from  a  fire." 
R.  Jehudah  b.  Lakish,  however,  says:  "  I  have  heard  that  it 
may  be  done."  How  is  the  case  if  there  was  a  loaf  of  bread  or 
an  infant  ?  Why  should  the  first  Tana  prohibit  it  ?  And  if 
there  was  none,  what  is  the  reason  of  Lakish's  decision  ?  Do 
they  not  differ  in  the  point  of  transportation  stated  above  ? 
Nay;   all  agree  that  such  a  transportation  is  considered;   the 


76  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

reason,  however,  of  Ben  Lakish  is  that  usually  one  is  concerned 
about  his  dead,  and  if  it  would  not  be  permitted  to  remove  it, 
he  will  extinguish  the  fire.  Said  R.  Jehudah  b.  Shilah  in  the 
name  of  R.  Ashi,  quoting  R.  Johanan:  The  Halakha  prevails 
according  to  Ben  Lakish  concerning  a  corpse. 

MISHNA  VIII.'.  A  new  lamp  may  be  handled  on  the  Sab- 
bath, but  not  an  old  one;  R.  Simeon,  however,  says  all  lamps 
are  permitted  to  be  handled  except  such  as  are  still  burning. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  Anew  lamp  may  be  han- 
dled, but  not  an  old  one;  such  is  the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah. 

R.  Mair,  however,  says  that  all  lamps  may  be  moved,  except 
a  k'mp  which  was  lit  for  the  Sabbath  (though  the  light  is  extin- 
guished) ;  but  R.  Simeon  says,  except  a  lamp  which  is  still  burn- 
ing. If  extinguished,  it  may  be  moved;  but  a  goblet,  bowl,  or 
lantern  (used  as  lamps,  must  not  be  removed  from  their  respec- 
tive places).  R.  Eliezer  b.  R.  Simeon,  says:  It  is  permitted  to 
make  use  of  an  extinguished  lamp  and  of  the  oil  dripping  from 
it,  even  while  the  lamp  is  burning. 

Said  Abayi :  R.  Eliezer  b.  Simeon  holds  in  one  case  to  the 
opinion  of  his  father,  but  differs  with  him  in  the  other.  He 
holds  with  his  father  in  disregarding  Muktza  (designation),*  and 
differs  with  him  in  the  other  case ;  for  his  father  is  of  the  opin- 
ion that  when  a  lamp  is  extinguished  it  may  be  moved,  but  not 
while  it  is  burning;  but  he  is  of  the  opinion  that  even  a  burning 
lamp  may  be  moved.  "  But  a  goblet,  bowl,  or  lantern  must 
not."  Wherein  do  these  things  differ  from  the  others  ?  Said 
Mar  Zutra:  R.  Simeon  allows  a  small  lamp  (to  be  handled), 
because  one  will  wait  until  it  is  extinguished  (and  then  it  may 
be  used  for  another  purpose) ;  but  these  are  large,  and  not  apt 
to  become  extinguished  for  some  time.  R.  Zera  said :  All  the 
schoolmen  agree  on  prohibiting  the  handling  of  a  candelabrum 
which  had  been  lit  up  on  Sabbath,  but  the  handling  of  the  can- 
delabrum which  was  not  lit  up  on  the  Sabbath  is  unanimously 
permitted. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  "  It  is  not  permitted 
to  handle  a  bed  that  has  been  designated  as  a  place  to  put 
money  in,  if  the  money  had  already  previously  been  placed  upon 
it  (on  Friday  during  twilight  even  if  on  the  Sabbath  7io  money 

*  Muktza  (designation)  refers  to  such  objects  as  are  set  aside  and  designated  for 
Bon-use  on  the  Sabbath.  Thus,  all  materials  that  are  used  in  the  performance  of 
manual  labor  (prohibited  on  the  Sabbath)  are  called  Muktza.  R.  Simeon,  however, 
holds  there  is  no  such  thing  as  Muktza. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  77 

was  on  the  bed).  If  the  money,  however,  had  not  previously 
been  deposited  on  the  bed,  the  handling  is  permitted.  If  a  bed 
was  not  designated  for  the  keeping  of  money,  but  contained 
money,  it  must  not  be  handled.  If  it  contained  no  money,  it 
may  (providing  no  money  was  deposited  on  the  bed  during  twi- 
light of  the  preceding  Friday),  And  Rabh  says  this  because  he 
holds  with  R.  Jehudah  concerning  Muktza. 

And  it  seems  that  so  is  the  case,  as  Rabh  said  one  may  place 
a  lamp  upon  a  palm  tree  at  any  time  while  it  is  yet  day  on 
Friday,  in  order  that  it  may  burn  on  the  Sabbath;  but  one  may 
not  put  a  lamp  upon  the  same  on  a  biblical  feast  day.  (It  is 
permitted  to  place  a  lamp  on  a  palm  tree  on  the  Sabbath 
because  there  is  no  fear  of  the  tree,  which  is  Muktza  [desig- 
nated], being  used;  but  on  a  biblical  feast  day  it  is  prohibited 
for  fear  that  one  while  depositing  or  removing  the  lamp  will 
also  use  the  palm  tree;  and  that  is  prohibited.) 

And  this  is  correct  only  in  accordance  with  the  theory  of 
R.  Jehudah ;  but  should  Rabh  hold  with  R.  Simeon,  why  does 
he  make  a  distinction  between  the  Sabbath  and  a  biblical  feast 
day  ?  The  law  of  Muktza  does  not  exist  at  all  according  to 
R.  Simeon. 

Is  that  so  ?  Did  not  Rabh  decide,  when  he  was  questioned 
whether  one  may  remove  an  extinguished  'Hanukah  light  on  the 
Sabbath  for  fear  of  the  Magi  (this  has  already  been  mentioned 
in  a  previous  connection),  that  it  may  be  done  ?  The  time  of 
danger  is  different.*  R.  Kahana  and  R.  Assi  then  questioned 
him:  "Does  the  Halakha  so  prevail?"  and  he  answered: 
"  R.  Simeon  is  worthy  to  be  relied  upon  in  times  of  danger." 

Resh  Lakish  questioned  R.  Johanan :  "  May  wheat  that  has 
been  sown  but  that  has  not  yet  sprouted,  or  eggs  that  are  still 
under  the  hen,  be  eaten  on  the  Sabbath  ?  Does  he  (R.  Simeon) 
disregard  the  law  of  Muktza  only  in  such  cases  where  the  objects 
were  put  aside  with  no  intention  of  ever  being  used  again,  or 
does  he  disregard  Muktza  under  all  circumstances?"  He  (R. 
Johanan)  replied:  "  There  is  no  Muktza  in  his  theory  but  the 
oil  in  a  burning  lamp,  because  if  poured  in  a  lamp  for  the  pur- 
pose of  keeping  the  Sabbath-light  commandment  it  is  designated 
for  that  express  function,  and  as  it  is  not  permitted  to  extin- 
guish that  light,  the  intention  not  to  use  the  oil  for  any  other 
purpose  is  self-evident.     But  does  not  R.  Simeon  hold  that  the 

*  The  Talmud  here  refers  to  Persian  festivals,  when  the  burning  of  lights  was 
prohibited  except  in  sacred  shrines. 


78  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

same  is  the  case  with  other  things  which  were  designated  for 
their  religious  purposes  ?  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  the  ornaments  of 
the  tabernacle  on  that  festival  must  not  be  used,  even  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Simeon's  theory  ?  As  R.  Hyya  b.  R.  Joseph 
taught  in  the  presence  of  R.  Johanan:  "  One  must  not  remove 
wood  from  a  booth  on  any  biblical  feast  day,  but  he  may  remove 
it  from  any  place  near  by  ?  R.  Simeon,  however,  permits  this 
to  be  done.  Still,  they  all  agree  that  wood  must  not  be 
removed  from  a  booth  built  expressly  for  that  feast,  on  all  the 
seven  feast  days.  However,  if  there  was  a  stipulation  it  may  be 
done  accordingly  "  (because  the  wood  is  set  aside  for  the  ritual 
purpose).  Hence  even  according  to  him  the  designation  for 
ritual  purposes  must  not  be  used.  Why,  then,  is  this  different 
from  the  oil  in  question  ?  The  Boraitha  is  to  be  understood 
thus :  All  the  ornaments  of  the  booth  in  question  are  prohibited 
so  far  as  all  things  bearing  similitude  to  the  oil  in  the  burning 
lamp  are  concerned.  And  so  also  it  was  taught  by  R.  Hyya  b. 
Abba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  that  there  is  no  Muktza  in 
the  theory  of  R.  Simeon,  but  in  cases  which  are  similar  to  the 
oil  of  the  lamp  while  burning,  being  designated  for  the  ritual 
purpose,  they  are  also  designated  not  to  be  used.  Said  R. 
Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  In  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon 
no  law  of  Muktza  exists  except  in  the  case  of  raisins  and  dates 
which  were  placed  on  the  roof  to  be  dried."  (In  such  a  case 
there  certainly  was  no  intention  to  use  them  on  the  same  Sab- 
bath.) Said  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan : 
"  It  was  said  the  law  remains  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon. 
When  R.  Itz'hak  b.  R.  Joseph,  however,  came  from  Palestine, 
he  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  that  the  law  (of  Muktza) 
according  to  R.  Jehudah  prevails,  and  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi  said 
the  law  prevails  with  R.  Simeon.  Said  R.  Joseph:  Now  is 
understood  what  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  said  in  name  of  R.  Johanan, 
//  was  said  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Simeon, 
which  means  that  R.  Johanan  himself  did  not  agree  with  their 
decision.  Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph:  "Didst  thou  not  know 
before  this  that  R.  Johanan  holds  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehu- 
dah ?  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  when  R.  Abba  and  R.  Assi  met  in 
the  house  of  R.  Abba  of  the  city  of  Heifa  and  a  candelabrum 
fell  upon  the  coat  of  R.  Assi,  he  (R.  Assi)  did  not  remove  it  ? 
Was  it  not  because  he  was  a  disciple  of  R.  Johanan  and  acted 
according  to  the  opinion  of  his  master  ?  "  Answered  R.  Joseph : 
"  Thou  art  speaking  of  a  candelabrum.     A  candelabrum  is  a 


TRACT    SABBATH.  79 

different  matter  altogether,  for  R.  Ahai  b.  Hanina  in  the  name 
of  R.  Assi  said:  Resh  Lakish  has  decided  in  Zidon,  a  candela- 
brum which  can  be  removed  with  one  hand  may  be  handled,  but 
if  it  has  to  be  removed  with  both  hands  it  may  not ;  and  R. 
Johanan  said :  We  only  hold  with  R.  Simeon  in  the  matter  of 
a  lamp ;  but  as  for  a  candelabrum,  whether  it  can  be  removed 
with  one  or  both  hands,  it  is  prohibited.  And  why  so  ?  Both 
Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  said :  Because  a  separate  place  must  be 
designated  for  it. 

Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph:  "  Have  we  not  observed  the  case 
of  a  baldaquin  prepared  for  a  bride  and  groom,  for  which  a  place 
must  be  designated  ?  And  yet  Samuel  said  in  the  name  of 
R.  Hyya  that  such  may  be  put  up  and  taken  apart  on  the  Sab- 
bath. ' '  Said  Abayi :  The  prohibition  to  handle  the  candelabrum 
holds  good  only  in  a  case  where  the  same  is  made  of  several 
parts.  If  this  be  the  case,  what  reason  has  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish 
for  allowing  this  ?  Say :  Not  a  candelabrum  made  of  various 
parts,  but  if  it  looks  like  a  candelabrum  of  various  parts.  There- 
fore a  candelabrum  made  of  several  parts,  be  it  large  or  small, 
must  not  be  handled.  The  handling  of  a  large  candelabrum, 
even  if  not  made  of  several  parts,  is  also  prohibited  on  account 
of  its  marked  lines,  for  fear  one  may  handle  such  as  are  made 
of  several  parts.  And  the  point  of  their  differing  is:  With  a 
small  candelabrum  which  looks  as  if  made  of  several  parts,  one 
takes  the  precautionary  measure  lest  one  handle  that  which  is 
really  made  of  several  parts,  while  the  other  does  not  care  for 
such  a  precaution. 

R,  Malkia  chanced  to  be  in  the  house  of  R.  Simlai  and 
handled  a  candlestick,  the  light  in  which  had  been  extinguished, 
and  R.  Simlai  became  angry  on  that  account.  R.  Jose  the 
Galilean  happened  to  be  in  the  town  of  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina  and 
did  the  same,  whereupon  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina  became  angry. 
R.  Abuhu,  however,  when  he  happened  to  be  in  the  place  of 
R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi,  handled,  but  when  he  came  to  the  place 
of  R.  Johanan  he  did  not  handle  a  candlestick  in  question  out  of 
respect  to  R.  Johanan.  R.  Jehudah  said :  A  lamp  which  has 
been  filled  with  oil  may  be  handled  after  the  light  has  been 
extinguished  (because  it  emits  no  bad  odor),  but  one  which  con- 
tained naphtha  may  not  be  handled  (on  account  of  its  bad  odor). 
Both  Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  also  permit  this. 

R.  Avia  once  came  to  the  house  of  Rabha  with  muddy  shoes 
and  sat  on  the  bed  in  the  presence  of  the  latter.     This  made 


8o  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Rabha  angry,  and  he  tried  to  disconcert  R.  Avia  with  questions. 
Said  he  (Rabha):  "  Can  you  tell  me  why  Rabba  and  R.  Joseph 
both  said  that  a  lamp  filled  with  naphtha  may  be  handled  ?" 
Answered  R.  Avia:  "The  reason  of  their  decision  is  because 
the  lamp  is  fit  to  cover  a  vessel  with  after  being  extinguished." 
And  he  rejoined:  "  If  this  is  so,  one  may  also  handle  shavings 
scattered  in  the  yard,  because  they  also  can  be  used  to  cover 
a  vessel  with."  Answered  R.  Avia:  "  A  lamp,  being  a  vessel 
itself,  can  be  used  to  cover  other  things  with,  but  shavings  are 
not  vessels  in  themselves  and  therefore  cannot  be  used  singly  as 
covers  "  (and  brought  a  Boraitha  which  states  that  nose  jewels, 
rings,  etc.,  are  considered  among  the  vessels  which  may  be 
handled  on  Sabbath,  and  Ulla  explained  the  reason  why,  because 
they  are  considered  as  vessels).  Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak: 
"  Praised  be  the  Lord  that  Rabha  did  not  put  R.  Avia  to 
shame." 

Abayi  pointed  out  to  R.  Joseph  the  following  contradiction : 
"  Did  R.  Simeon  say  that  a  light  may  be  handled  only  when 
extinguished,  but  if  burning  it  must  not  be  handled  ?  For  what 
reason  ?  Because  there  is  a  chance  of  extinguishing  it  while  it 
is  being  handled  ?  "  Have  we  not  learned  that  R.  Simeon  said : 
"An  act  which  is  committed  unintentionally  is  permissible." 
Such  is  the  decision  of  R.  Simeon  ?  (This  presents  no  diffi- 
culty.) One  must  not  take  chances  with  an  act  which,  if  done 
intentionally,  would  cause  a  violation  of  a  biblical  ordinance; 
but  if  the  violation  would  be  only  that  of  a  rabbinical  ordinance, 
chances  may  be  taken. 

Objected  Rabha:  "  We  have  learned  :  Dealers  in  clothing  may 
sell  clothes  made  of  wool  and  cotton  mixed.  They  are  per- 
mitted to  try  on  such  clothes  or  to  carry  them  (temporarily)  on 
their  shoulders,  provided  the  intention  to  use  them  as  a  protec- 
tion against  the  sun  and  rain  does  not  exist.  Now,  the  wearing 
of  a  mixture  of  wool  and  cotton  is  biblically  prohibited,  still 
R.  Simeon  permits  it  to  be  done  temporarily.  Therefore  said 
Rabha:  "  Discard  the  case  of  the  lamp,  oil,  and  wick;  there  is 
another  reason  entirely — viz.,  because  one  becomes  a  basis  of 
a  thing  the  handling  of  whch  is  in  itself  prohibited  {i.e.,  the 
light  in  itself  cannot  be  handled)." 

Said  R.  Zera  in  the  name  of  R.  Assi,  quoting  R.  Johanan, 
who  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Hanina  that  he  was  told  by  R. 
Romnas:  "  Rabbi  permitted  me  to  handle  a  pan  containing 
glowing  ashes." 


TRACT    SABBATH.  8i 

And  R.  Zera  himself  was  deliberating:  Did  indeed  R.  Johanan 
say  so  ?  Have  we  not  heard  that  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  said  in  his 
(R.  Johanan 's)  name,  referring  to  our  Mishna,  which  states  that 
a  man  may  handle  a  box  containing  a  stone:  "  He  may  do  so 
providing  the  box  also  contains  fruit."  How,  then,  could  R. 
Johanan  permit  a  pan  with  glowing  ashes  to  be  handled  ? "  R. 
Assi  was  astounded  for  some  time,  but  finally  answered:  "  The 
pan  referred  to  still  contained  some  grains  of  incense." 

But  Rabha  said:  While  we  were  in  R.  Na'hman's  house  we 
handled  a  fire-pot  on  account  of  its  ashes  (the  ashes  were  needed 
for  some  purpose,  therefore  the  pot  was  allowed  to  be  handled), 
although  there  were  some  broken  sticks  of  wood  upon  it. 

The  schoolmen  raised  the  following  objection:  R.  Simeon 
and  R.  Jehudah  agree  that  if  there  are  broken  pieces  of  wick  in 
a  lamp,  it  is  prohibited  to  handle  the  lamp.  Said  Abayi:  "  This 
was  taught  in  Galilea  "  (Galilea  is  a  state  where  linen  cloth  is 
scarce,  for  which  reason  the  broken  pieces  of  wick  are  valuable, 
and  the  lamp,  being  the  receptacle  of  prohibited  valuables,  is 
not  permitted  to  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath). 

Levi,  the  son  of  Samuel,  met  R.  Abba  and  R.  Huna  the 
son  of  Hyya  standing  at  the  entrance  of  R.  Huna's  house;  and 
Levi  questioned:  "Is  it  allowed  to  fold  the  beds  of  travelling 
coppersmiths  on  a  Sabbath?"  They  answered:  "Yea."  In 
allowing  this  the  two  rabbis  held  with  (the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon 
b.  Gamaliel  in  a)  following  Boraitha:  It  is  not  permitted  to  put 
together  a  bed  which  has  been  taken  apart;  but  if  one  did  so, 
he  is  not  culpable.  One  must  not  fasten  the  bed  with  pegs, 
but  if  he  did  so  he  only  lays  himself  liable  to  bring  a  sin-offer- 
ing. R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  said:  "  If  the  bed  was 
loose  it  may  be  fastened." 

R.  Hama  had  a  folding-bed  in  his  house.  He  put  it  together 
on  a  biblical  feast  day,  and  one  of  the  young  rabbis  questioned 
Rabha:  "  What  reason  is  to  be  found  for  this  act  ?  Is  it  because 
of  indirect  building;  granted  that  there  is  no  biblical  prohibition 
to  this  effect,  there  surely  is  a  rabbinical  ? "  Answered  Rabha: 
"  I  think  that  the  reason  is  the  decision  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Gama- 
liel (with  whom  I  agree)  that  it  is  permissible  to  put  a  bed 
together  if  the  bed  is  loose." 

MISHNA  IX.  :  One  may  put  a  vessel  underneath  a  lamp  for 
the  purpose  of  receiving  the  sparks  falling  from  the  lamp,  but 
he  shall  ^.ot  put  water  into  the  vessel,  because  thereby  the 
sparks  would  become  extinguished. 

VOL.    I. — 6 


82  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

GEMARA:  Would  this  act  not  render  the  vessel  useless? 
Said  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua:  "The  vessel  is  not 
made  useless,  because  sparks  do  not  amount  to  anything." 

"  He  shall  not  put  any  water  into  it,''  etc.  Shall  we  assume 
that  this  anonymous  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jose,  who 
said  that  it  is  prohibited  even  to  cause  light  to  be  extinguished  ? 
How  can  you  explain  this  in  this  way  ?  R.  Jose  spoke  of  the 
Sabbath  itself;  have  you  heard  him  saying  so  about  the  eve  of 
Sabbath  ?  And  should  you  say  that  here  is  also  meant  on  Sab- 
bath itself,  there  is  a  Boraitha  which  states  plainly:  A  vessel 
may  be  put  under  the  lamp  to  receive  sparks  on  Sabbath,  and 
so  much  the  more  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath ;  but  water  must  not 
be  put  in,  even  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  and  much  less  on  the 
Sabbath  itself.  Therefore  said  R.  Ashi :  "  It  may  be  said  that 
it  is  in  accordance  even  with  the  rabbis,  who  do  not  mind  the 
causing  of  light  to  be  extinguished  through  indirect  means  on 
the  Sabbath.  In  this  case,  however,  the  sparks  are  extinguished 
(through  direct  means,  i.e.^  by  placing  water  underneath  the 
lamp." 


CHAPTER   IV. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING     VICTUALS,    WHERE    THEY    MAY    OR    MAY 
NOT    BE   DEPOSITED    TO    RETAIN    THEIR    HEAT    FOR    THE   SABBATH. 

MISHNA  /. :  Wherein  may  hot  vessels  be  deposited  (to 
retain  the  heat)  and  wherein  may  they  not  ?  Depositing  in 
Gepheth  (olive  waste),  dung,  salt,  lime,  and  sand,  either  wet  or 
dry,  is  not  allowed.  In  straw,  grape-skins,  wool-flocks,  or  grass 
it  is  permitted,  provided  they  are  dry,  but  not  when  they  are 
still  wet. 

GEMARA :  A  question  was  propounded :  "  Is  the  use  of  olive 
waste  only  prohibited,  but  the  use  of  the  oil-cakes  allowed ;  or 
does  the  Mishna  allude  to  oil-cakes  and  still  more  so  to  olive 
waste  (for  it  produces  more  heat)?"  For  the  purpose  of  de- 
positing in,  both  kinds  are  not  allowed ;  (but  if  the  victuals  have 
been  deposited  in  a  permissible  thing  and  were  subsequently 
placed  on  oil-cakes  no  wrong  was  done,  because)  oil-cake  does 
not  produce  heat ;  olive  waste  produces  heat, 

Rabba  and  R.  Zera  once  met  at  the  Exilarch's  house;  they 
saw  there  a  servant  putting  a  can  (with  warm  water)  on  top  of 
a  kettle  (containing  cold  water),  and  Rabba  rebuked  him.  Said 
R.  Zera  to  him :  "  In  what  particular  does  this  case  differ  from 
that  of  putting  one  pan  on  top  of  another  ?  "  Answered  Rabba: 
"  Here  heat  is  produced,  but  there  it  is  only  preserved."  An- 
other time  they  saw  (the  servant)  spreading  a  turban  over  a  pitcher 
and  putting  a  cup  on  top  of  it.  Again  Rabba  rebuked  him. 
R.  Zera  asked  for  the  reason,  and  Rabba  answered:  "  You  will 
soon  see  him  wringing*  the  turban,"  which  he  did.  R.  Zera 
again  asked :  "  In  what  particular  does  this  case  differ  from  that 
of  a  spread  cloth  ?  "  Answered  Rabba:  "  Here  he  is  particular 
(lest  it  become  wet  and  he  will  wring  it),  while  there  he  is  not." 

"  In  straw.''  R.  Adda  b.  Masna  questioned  Abayi :  "  May 
wool-flocks,  in  which  (victuals)  were  deposited,  be  handled  on 
Sabbath?"      Abayi  answered:    "Because  of  a  lack  of  straw, 

*  Wringing  (in  Hebrew,  Se'hitah)  is  prohibited  on  the  Sabbath. 


84  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD, 

would  a  man  sacrifice  a  valuable  lot  of  wool-flock  ?  "  (When 
placing  victuals  in  straw  no  intention  to  make  further  use  of  the 
straw  exists,  and  it  becomes  part  of  the  pot  itself;  with  wool- 
flocks  the  case  is  different,  for  they  are  intended  for  further  use 
and  therefore  must  not  be  handled  on  Sabbath.) 

R.  Hisda  permitted  the  replacing  of  waste  (fallen  out)  of 
a  pillow  on  Sabbath. 

R.  Hanan  b.  Hisda  objected  to  him  from  the  following: 
"  Untying  the  opening  (for  the  neck)  of  a  shirt  is  permitted  on 
Sabbath,  but  cutting  it  is  prohibited,  and  waste  must  not  be 
placed  into  a  pillow  or  bolster  on  a  biblical  feast  day,  much  less 
on  a  Sabbath." 

This  presents  no  difficulty.  Placing  new  waste  in  a  pillow- 
case is  not  allowed,  but  replacing  old  waste  is  allowed.  And  so 
also  we  have  learned  plainly  in  a  Boraitha,  that  when  they  fall 
out  they  may  be  replaced  even  on  Sabbath,  and  much  the  more 
on  a  feast  day. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  "  Whosoever  makes 
an  opening  (for  the  neck  in  an  unfinished  shirt)  on  Sabbath  is 
liable  to  a  sin-ofTering. " 

R.  Kahana  opposed,  saying:  What  is  the  difference  between 
an  opening  for  the  neck  and  a  bunghead  (in  a  barrel)  ?  Rabha 
answered:  A  bunghead  is  not  attached  to  the  barrel  {i.e.,  it 
forms  no  part  of  it),  but  an  opening  for  the  neck  is  made  by  an 
incision  in  the  shirt,  and  hence  is  part  and  parcel  of  same.  In 
Sura  the  following  doctrine  was  taught  in  the  name  of  R.  Hisda, 
and  in  Pumbeditha  the  same  was  taught  in  the  name  of  R. 
Kahana  or  Rabha:  "  Who  was  the  Tana  in  whose  name  the 
sages  taught  that  the  part  and  parcel  of  a  thing  is  on  a  par  with 
the  thing  itself?"  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh: 
"  It  is  R.  Meir  (of  the  Mishna,  Kelim,  VIII.)  who  holds  that  the 
attachment  built  on  a  hearth  is  on  a  par  with  the  hearth  itself 
and  becomes  unclean  when  touched  by  an  unclean  thing." 

WJien  wet.''  A  question  was  propounded:  Naturally  or 
artificially  wet?  Come  and  hear.  The  Mishna  says:  "Not 
with  straw,  nor  with  grape-skins,  nor  with  wool-flocks,  nor  with 
grass  when  wet."  It  is  right  only  if  we  accept  the  theory  that 
they  became  wet,  but  should  we  venture  to  think  them  natu- 
rally wet,  how  is  this  to  be  imagined  ?  Can  wool-flocks  be  natu- 
rally wet  ?  The  sweaty  wool  under  the  hips  may  be  meant. 
Did  not  R.  Oshia  teach  we  may  deposit  in  dry  cloth  and  dry 
fruit,  but  not  in  wet  cloth  or  wet  fruit  ?     How  is  naturally  wet 


TRACT    SABBATH.  85 

cloth  to  be  imagined  ?  This  may  also  mean  cloth  made  from 
the  sweaty  wool  under  the  hips  of  the  sheep. 

MISHNA  //. :  It  may  be  deposited  in  cloth,  fruit,  pigeon 
feathers,  shavings,  and  fine  flaxen  tow.  R.  Jehudah  forbids 
the  use  of  fine,  but  permits  the  use  of  coarse  flaxen  tow. 

GEMARA:  ''Shavings.''  A  question  was  propounded: 
Does  R.  Jehudah  forbid  the  use  of  fine  shavings  or  fine  flaxen 
tow  ?  Come  and  hear.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  R. 
Jehudah  says:  Fine  flaxen  tow  is  the  same  as  dung,  which  in- 
creases heat ;  therefore  the  conclusion  is  that  he  means  flaxen  tow. 

MISHNA///.:  It  may  be  deposited  (wrapped)  in  skins,  and 
they  may  be  handled;  in  shorn  wool,  and  must  not  be  handled. 
How  can  this  be  done  ?  The  lid  is  raised  and  it  (the  shorn 
wool)  falls  down.  R.  Elazar  b.  Azarya  says :  The  vessel  is  bent 
sideways  lest  it  be  taken  out  ai>d  cannot  be  replaced,  but  the 
sages  say  it  may  be  taken  out  and  replaced. 

GEMARA :  A  question  was  propounded  by  R.  Jonathan  b. 
Akhinayi,  R.  Jonathan  b.  Elazar,  and  R.  Hanina  b.  Hama: 
Does  the  Mishna  allude  to  skins  beloning  to  private  men  only, 
hence  skins  belonging  to  an  artisan,  who  is  particular  with 
them,  may  not  be  handled  under  any  circumstances ;  or  perhaps 
the  Mishna  allows  even  an  artisan's  skins?  Answered  R.  Jona- 
than b.  Elazar  to  them:  It  is  reasonable  to  accept  that  it  applies 
only  to  those  belonging  to  private  men  but  not  to  artisans, 
because  they  (the  artisans)  are  particular.  Said  R.  Hanina  b. 
Hama  to  them:  Thus  said  R.  Ishmael  b.  Jossi:  "  My  father 
was  a  tanner,  and  he  said,  '  Bring  some  skins  here  to  sit  on.'  " 

An  objection  was  raised :  Boards  of  private  men  may  be 
handled,  but  not  those  of  artisans  (if,  however,  the  intention  is 
to  serve  a  meal  on  them  for  guests  both  kinds  may  be  handled)  ? 
With  boards  it  is  different.  Even  private  men  are  particular 
with  boards. 

On  this  point  the  following  Tanaim  differ:  Skins  belonging 
to  private  men  may  be  handled,  but  not  those  of  artisans.  R. 
Jossi  says  both  kinds  may  be  handled. 

While  they  were  sitting  together  another  question  was  pro- 
pounded by  them :  The  forty  less  one  principal  acts  of  labor  on 
Sabbath,  where  are  they  taken  from  ?  Said  R.  Hanina  b. 
Hama:  "  From  the  acts  of  labor  performed  at  the  tabernacle." 
R.  Jonathan  b.  Elazar,  however,  said:  Thus  said  R.  Simeon  b. 
Jossi  b.  Laqunia:  From  the  thirty-nine  times  the  words  "  work," 
"  his  work,"  and  "  work  of  "  are  to  be  found  in  the  Pentateuch. 


86  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

R.  Joseph  questioned  Rabba:  Is  the  term  "  his  work  "  which 
is  found  in  the  passage  "  and  Joseph  came  into  the  house  to  do 
his  work  "  [Gen.  xxxix.  12]  also  of  the  number  or  not  ?  Abayi 
answered  him:  "Let  us  bring  the  book  and  count,"  and  he 
rejoined:  "  I  am  in  doubt  whether  the  verse  '  and  the  work  was 
enough  '  [Ex.  xxxvi.  7]  is  of  the  number,  and  the  former  verse 
is  to  be  explained  *  he  came  in  to  do  his  business,'  or  whether 
the  former  is  of  the  number  and  the  latter  is  to  be  explained 
'the  task  was  completed.'"  (Both  verses  cannot  be  counted 
among  the  thirty-nine,  because  if  they  are  there  will  be  forty  in 
all.)     This  question  remains  unanswered. 

It  is  proven  by  a  Boraitha  that  the  adduction  of  the  thirty- 
nine  acts  is  made  from  the  acts  performed  at  the  tabernacle, 
for  we  were  taught:  One  is  culpable  only  for  the  performance 
of  such  work  as  was  done  at  the  building  of  the  tabernacle. 
They  have  sown,  but  ye  must  not  sow;  they  have  harvested, 
but  ye  must  not ;  they  have  loaded  the  boards  from  the  ground 
upon  wagons,  but  ye  must  remove  nothing  from  public  into 
private  ground ;  they  have  unloaded  from  the  wagons  to  the 
ground,  but  ye  must  not  remove  from  private  into  public 
ground;  they  have  transferred  from  one  wagon  into  another, 
but  ye  must  transfer  nothing  from  private  into  private  ground. 
"  From  private  into  private  ground."  What  wrong  is  committed 
by  that  ?  Both  Abayi  and  Rabha,  and  according  to  others  R. 
Adda  b.  Ahabha,  said:  "  From  private  into  private  ground  by 
way  of  public  ground." 

* '  In  shorn  wool  and  may  not  be  handled. ' '  Rabha  and  Rabhin 
in  the  name  of  Rabbi  (Jehudah  Hanassi)  said:  "  It  is  only 
taught,  when  not  designated  for  the  purpose  of  depositing  in 
them,  but  if  designated  for  that  purpose  they  may  be  handled." 
Rabhina  says  that  the  teaching  of  the  Mishna  is  applicable  to 
shorn  wool  taken  from  stock  (of  a  store). 

The  following  Boraitha  is  in  support  of  this:  Shorn  wool 
taken  from  stock  is  not  to  be  handled,  but  if  prepared  by  a  pri- 
vate man  for  a  purpose  it  may  be  handled. 

Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  taught  before  Rabh :  Palm  branches,  if 
cut  off  for  use  as  fuel  and  finally  intended  for  sitting  purposes, 
must  be  tied  together  (before  the  Sabbath).  R.  Simeon  b. 
Gamaliel  said  it  needs  not  tying.  He  who  taught  this  has  him- 
self declared  that  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with 
R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel. 

It  was  taught:  (In  relation  to  sitting  on  palm  branches  cut 


TRACT    SABBATH.  87 

off  for  use  as  fuel^  Rabh  said  (it  must  be)  tied.  Samuel  said: 
The  intention  on  t  le  eve  of  Sabbath  suffices;  and  R.  Assi  said: 
Sitting  (on  them  before  the  Sabbath),  even  if  not  tied  nor  pre- 
viously intended  for  sitting  purposes  on  the  Sabbath,  is  suffi- 
cient. It  is  clear  that  Rabh  holds  with  the  first  teacher  and 
Samuel  holds  with  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  but  whom  does  R. 
Assi's  opinion  agree  with  ?  He  is  in  accordance  with  the  Tana 
of  the  following  Boraitha:  It  is  permitted  to  go  out  (on  Sab- 
bath) with  a  flax  or  wool  plaster  (on  a  wound)  when  dipped  in 
oil  and  tied  with  a  string,  but  it  is  not  permitted  when  the 
plaster  is  not  dipped  in  oil  or  tied  with  a  string;  but  if  one  went 
out  with  it  only  a  little  before  the  Sabbath,  even  if  not  dipped 
in  oil  and  tied,  it  is  permissible.  Said  R.  Ashi:  "  We  were  also 
taught  in  a  Mishna  in  support  of  this;  but  who  is  the  teacher 
that  does  not  agree  with  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel?"  It  is  R. 
Hanina  b.  Aqiba,  for  when  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine  he 
said  in  the  name  of  Zera,  quoting  R.  Hanina:  R.  Hanina  b. 
Aqiba  once  went  with  his  disciples  to  a  place  and  found  some 
palm  branches  tied  together  to  be  used  as  fuel ;  he  said  to  his 
disciples:  "  Make  up  your  minds  to  sit  on  them  to-morrow." 
I  do  not  know  whether  there  was  to  be  a  wedding  or  a  funeral 
that  following  day,  but  the  inference  from  this  narration  is: 
Only  in  the  case  of  a  wedding  or  funeral,  when  people  are  busy 
(and  could  not  tie  them  up),  the  intention  is  sufficient,  but 
otherwise  tying  together  is  necessary. 

R.  Jehudah  said:  "  One  is  permitted  to  carry  in  a  box  of 
sand  on  the  Sabbath  for  the  purpose  (of  covering  up  an  unclean 
place)  and  use  the  remainder  for  any  purpose  whatever.  Mar 
Zutra,  in  the  name  of  Mar  Zutra  the  Great,  interpreted  this — 
providing  he  singled  out  a  corner  for  it.  Said  the  rabbis  before 
R.  Papa:  "  Is  this  teaching  (of  the  great  Mar  Zutra)  in  accord 
only  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  but  not  with 
that  of  the  rabbis  who  require  action  rather  than  intention  ?" 
R.  Papa  answered :  It  may  even  be  in  accord  with  the  rabbis, 
who  require  action  only  where  it  is  possible,  and  this  action 
(tying  together  or  sitting  on  sand)  is  impossible  (as  reserving 
a  corner  for  them  is  not  considered  an  act,  but  an  intention 
only). 

R.  Jehudah  permits  the  use  of  the  dust  of  incense  on  the 
Sabbath.  R.  Joseph  permits  poppy-seed  waste.  Rabha  per- 
mits pepper  dust  and  R.  Shesheth  Barda,  to  wash  the  face 
with.     What  is  Barda  ?     Said  R.  Joseph  :  A  powder  of  one-third 


88  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

aloe,  one-third  myrrh,  and  one-third  violet.  R.  Nehemiah  b. 
Joseph  also  permits  Barda,  provided  it  does  not  contain  more 
than  a  third  part  of  aloe. 

R.  Shesheth  was  asked  if  it  was  permitted  to  crush  olives  on 
Sabbath?  He  answered:  "Is  it  permitted  on  week  days?" 
He  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  spoiling  of  food  is  not  allowed. 

Barda  was  brought  to  Ameimar,  Mar  Zutra,  and  R.  Ashi. 
Ameimar  and  R,  Ashi  washed  themselves  with  it,  but  Mar  Zutra 
did  not.  They  asked  him:  "  Do  you,  Master,  not  hold  with 
R.  Shesheth,  who  permits  the  use  of  it  ? "  Said  R.  Mordecai 
to  them:  Leave  out  the  master  in  this  question,  for  he  does 
not  even  use  Barda  on  week  days.  He  holds  with  the  follow- 
ing Boraitha:  "  One  is  permitted  to  scratch  off  crust  of  excre- 
ment and  of  wounds  only  for  the  purpose  of  relieving  pain, 
but  not  for  the  purpose  of  beautifying  the  person."  And  the 
above-mentioned  rabbis  agree  with  the  teaching  of  the  follow- 
ing: One  should  wash  his  face,  hands,  and  feet  daily  out  of 
respect  for  his  Creator,  as  it  is  written  [Prov.  xvi.  4]  :  "  Every 
thing  hath  the  Lord  wrought  for  its  destined  end."* 

The  vessel  is  bent  sideways,''  etc.  Said  R.  Aba  in  the  name 
of  R.  Hyya  b.  Ashi,  quoting  Rabh:  If  the  cavity  formed 
by  the  vessel  got  out  of  shape  it  is  not  permitted  to  replace  (the 
vessel).  There  is  an  objection  from  our  Mishna:  "  And  the 
sages  say  it  may  be  taken  out  and  replaced. "  How  shall  this  be 
understood  ?  If  the  cavity  remained  intact  the  rabbis  did  well 
by  telling  us  that  the  replacing  of  the  vessel  was  allowed ;  but  if 
the  cavity  got  out  of  shape,  is  it  not  self-evident  that  replacing 
is  not  permitted  ?  Nay ;  they  still  maintain  that  the  cavity  did 
not  get  out  of  shape,  and  the  controversy  (in  the  case)  is  as 
regards  precaution.  One  maintains  that  this  precaution  is  to 
be  taken  (lest  we  replace  the  vessel  when  the  cavity  is  out  of 
shape),  while  the  others  contend  this  is  not  necessary. 

R.  Huna  said:  "  A  fragrant  plant  used  after  meals  in  place 
of  burnt  spices,  if  it  was  taken  out  of  and  replaced  in  the 
flower-pot  before  Sabbath,  it  may  be  taken  out,  used,  and 
replaced  on  Sabbath,  but  not  otherwise.  Samuel  said  that  the 
same  is  the  case  with  a  knife  that  was  preserved  between  the 
bricks.  Mar  Zutra,  according  to  others  R.  Ashi,  said  that  a 
knife  may  be  preserved  between  the  branches  of  the  root.     And 

*  The  expression  in  Hebrew  is  lema'anehu ;  literally,  "for  his  own  purpose." 
Leeser  translates  for  the  purpose  of  the  things  created  ;  the  Talmud,  however,  takes 
it  literally. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  89 

R.  Mordecai  said  to  Rabha  that  R.  Qatina  has  objected  to  the 
above  rabbis,  who  said  that  if  it  were  not  replaced  before  Sab- 
bath it  must  not  be  used,  from  a  Mishna  (Kilaim,  I.  9),  which 
states  plainly  that  it  may  be  taken  out  on  Sabbath.  This 
question  remains. 

MISHNA  IV. :  (A  vessel)  not  covered  during  daylight  must 
not  be  covered  after  dark.  If,  after  having  been  covered,  it 
became  uncovered,  it  is  permitted  to  cover  it  again.  A  pitcher 
may  be  filled  with  cold  victuals  and  put  under  a  pillow  (to  keep 
it  cool). 

GEMARA:  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  "  It  is 
permitted  to  store  cold  victuals  (to  protect  them  from  the  sun)." 
Said  R.  Joseph:  "  What  news  came  he  to  teach  ?  Have  we  not 
learned  this  in  the  above  Mishna?"  Abayi  answered:  "A 
great  deal!  From  the  Mishna  I  would  infer  that  only  such 
things  as  are  not  usually  stored  are  permissible  (for  in  that  case 
no  precaution  lest  one  put  warm  victuals  under  a  pillow  or  bol- 
ster for  the  purpose  of  generating  heat  is  necessary) ;  he  informs 
us,  however,  that  even  such  things  as  are  usually  stored  are 
permissible  also."  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  Rabbi,  however, 
says:  "  It  is  prohibited."  Were  we  not  taught  that  Rabbi  has 
permitted  this  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty.  In  the  former 
instance  he  did  so  when  he  was  not  as  yet  aware  of  the  follow- 
ing decision  of  R.  Ishmael  b.  Jossi.  Rabbi  at  one  time  decided 
that  it  is  forbidden  to  store  cold  victuals.  Said  R.  Ishmael  b. 
Jossi  to  him:  "  My  father  permitted  it,"  whereupon  Rabbi 
said:  *'  If  this  sage  has  once  permitted  it,  so  shall  it  be  done." 
Said  R.  Papa:  Come  ye  and  note  the  mutual  respect:  Had  R. 
Jossi  been  alive,  he  would  have  had  to  show  respect  to  Rabbi; 
as  R.  Ishmael,  who  succeeded  his  father  in  every  respect,  also 
has  acknowledged  Rabbi's  superiority.  Still  Rabbi  accepted 
his  decision. 

R.  Na'hman  said  to  his  slave  Doru :  "  Store  some  cold  vict- 
uals for  me  and  bring  me  warm  water  from  a  Gentile  cook- 
shop."  R.  Ami  heard  this  and  was  angry.  Said  R.  Joseph: 
"  What  was  the  reason  of  his  anger  ?  Did  not  R.  Na'hman  act 
in  accordance  with  the  teachings  of  the  great  masters,  Rabh  and 
Samuel  ?"  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  It  is  per- 
mitted to  store  cold  victuals,  and  R.  Samuel  b.  R.  Itz'hak  said 
in  the  name  of  Rabh :  Anything  that  may  be  consumed  raw  is 
not  included  in  the  prohibition  relating  to  cooking  by  a  Gentile; 
he  (R.  Ami),  however,  was  of  the  opinion  that,  although  it  is 


90  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

allowed,  a  man  of  note  should  not  practise  it  (because  the  lay. 
man  seeing  such  things  of  the  scholar  he  might  allow  himself 
still  more). 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  Although  the  sages  said  it  is  not  allowed 
to  deposit  (warm  victuals)  after  dark,  even  in  such  receptacles 
as  do  not  increase  the  heat,  still,  if  already  deposited,  it  is  per- 
mitted to  add  more  cover.  How  can  this  be  done  ?  R.  Simeon 
b.  Gamaliel  says:  "  In  cold  weather  the  covering  sheet  may  be 
taken  off  and  a  blanket  substituted ;  in  warm  weather  the  blanket 
maybe  taken  off  and  a  sheet  substituted."  Furthermore  said 
the  same:  "The  sages  prohibited  (to  deposit  warm  victuals) 
only  in  the  same  pan  in  which  they  were  cooked,  but  if  emptied 
into  another  pan  it  is  permitted ;  and  there  is  no  fear  of  one 
coming  to  cook  (on  the  Sabbath) ;  for  (the  act  of)  emptying  (the 
victuals)  from  the  cooking-pan  (into  another)  proves  (that  there 
is  no  such  intention). 

If  one  deposited  a  pot  (containing  victuals)  in  material  that 
may  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath,  and  covered  it  with  the  same, 
or  even  deposited  it  in  non-permissible  material,  but  covered  it 
with  permissible,  he  may  take  out  the  pot  and  replace  it ;  but  if 
he  deposited  it  in  non-permissible  material  and  covered  it  with 
the  same,  or  even  deposited  it  in  permissible,  but  covered  it 
with  non-permissible  material,  he  may  take  02it  the  pot,  but  can 
replace  it  only  if  the  pot  was  but  partly  covered.  Otherwise, 
he  must  not  replace  it  at  all. 

It  is  permitted  to  put  one  cooking-pan  upon  another,  and 
also  one  earthen  pot  upon  another,  but  not  an  earthen  pot  upon 
a  cooking-pan,  or  a  cooking-pan  upon  an  earthen  pot.  (Even 
on  Sabbath)  the  cover  of  a  pot  may  be  fastened  down  with 
dough  (kneaded  on  Friday  before  dusk).  In  the  case  of  putting 
one  pan  or  pot  upon  another,  this  may  be  done  only  to  preserve 
the  heat,  but  not  for  the  purpose  of  heating  the  upper  pot  by 
means  of  the  lower  one. 

The  same  as  it  is  forbidden  to  store  warm  (victuals),  so  it  is 
also  forbidden  to  store  cold  (victuals)  on  the  Sabbath ;  but 
Rabbi  permitted  the  latter  to  be  done.  Even  so  is  it  prohib- 
ited to  chop  ice  on  Sabbath  in  order  to  obtain  cold  water,  but 
ice  may  be  put  into  a  vessel  or  a  pitcher  without  fear  of  the 
consequences. 


CHAPTER   V. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING    WHAT    MAY    AND    MAY    NOT    BE    WORN    BY 
ANIMALS   ON    THE    SABBATH. 

MISHNA  /. :  What  gear  may  we  let  animals  go  about  in 
and  what  not  ?*  The  male  camel  in  a  bridle;  the  female  camel 
with  a  nose-ring ;  Lybian  asses  in  a  halter,  and  a  horse  in  a  col- 
lar. All  (animals)  that  are  used  to  collars  may  go  out  In  and 
may  be  led  by  the  collar.  Such  gear  (when  it  becomes  defiled) 
can  be  sprinkled  and  submerged  without  being  removed  from 
its  (proper)  place  (on  the  animal). 

GEMAR A :  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said  :  ' '  Rabbi 
was  asked,  How  is  it  when  the  reverse  is  the  case  ?  i.e.,  when 
the  female  camel  is  bridled  and  the  male  camel  is  invested  with 
a  nose-ring  ?  May  they  be  allowed  to  go  about  ?  There  is  no 
question  as  to  a  bridle  on  a  female  camel,  for  it  is  considered  a 
burden ;  as  to  a  nose-ring  on  a  male  camel,  shall  we  assume  that 
it  is  merely  an  additional  safeguard,  and  thus  becomes  permis- 
sible, or  is  it  an  unnecessary  safeguard  and  hence  not  allowed  ? " 
R.  Ishmael  b.  Jossi  answered:  "Thus  my  father  said:  Four 
animals  may  go  about  with  a  bridle  on — the  horse,  the  mule, 
the  camel,  and  the  ass."  A  Boraitha  states:  Lydda  asses  and 
camels  may  go  about  with  a  bridle  on.  The  following  Tanaim, 
however,  differ  as  to  this  point  (whether  a  superfluous  safeguard 
is  a  burden  or  not) :  one  maintains  that  no  animal  may  go  about 
burdened  with  a  chain ;  but  Hananya  says  a  chain  or  anything 
else  that  is  intended  as  a  safeguard  is  permitted. 

Said  R.  Huna  b.  Hyya  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  The 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  Hananya." 

Levi  b.  R.  Huna  b.  Hyya  and  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  once  trav- 
elled together;  arriving  at  an  entrance,  the  former's  ass  ran 
ahead  of  the  latter's.  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  became  dejected  (at 
the  lack  of  respect  shown  him,  supposing  it  to  have  been  done 
intentionally).     Thought  Levi  to  himself:  "  I  will  pacify  him 

*  See  Exodus  xx.  lo  and  Deut.  v.  14,  where  it  is  prohibited  to  have  cattle  per- 
form work  on  the  Sabbath.  The  Mishna  considers  the  carrying  of  burdens  work  and 
defines  what  gear  constitutes  a  burden  for  cattle  and  what  does  not. 


92  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

with  the  following  question:  Is  it  permitted  to  put  a  halter  on 
an  unmanageable  ass  like  mine  on  the  Sabbath?"  Rejoined 
Rabba:  "  So  said  your  father  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  '  The 
decision  of  Harianya  prevails.'  " 

At  the  school  of  Menashyah  it  was  taught:  A  goat  with  a 
bridle  fastened  to  his  horns  is  permitted  to  go  about  on  Sabbath 
(but  not  if  the  bridle  was  simply  tied  to  the  horns,  as  it  may 
slip  off  and  a  man  may  be  forced  to  carry  the  bridle). 

An  objection  was  raised:  "  Were  we  not  taught  in  a  Mishna 
that  it  is  not  allowed  to  let  a  cow  go  about  with  a  strap  tied 
between  her  horns  ?  " 

Said  R.  Irmya  b.  Aba:  On  this  point  Rabh  and  Samuel  dif- 
fer ;  according  to  one  it  is  prohibited  at  any  rate,  and  according 
to  the  other,  if  for  an  ornament  it  is  prohibited,  but  as  a  safe- 
guard it  is  permitted.  Said  R.  Joseph:  "  It  seems  that  Samuel 
was  the  one  who  permitted  it  as  a  safeguard,  as  R.  Huna  said 
in  his  name  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  Hananya."  Said 
Abayi  to  R.  Joseph:  "  On  the  contrary,  it  may  be  that  Samuel 
is  the  one  who  forbids  it  at  any  rate,  as  R.  Jehudah  said  above 
in  his  name:  Rabbi  was  asked:  How  is  it  when  the  reverse  is 
the  case,"  etc.  Does  this  not  mean  to  exclude  a  nose-ring  from 
a  camel  ?  But  why  should  you  prefer  this  latter  saying  to  the 
former  one  ?  Because  it  was  taught:  "  R.  Hyya  b.  Ashi  said 
in  the  name  of  Rabh  that  it  is  forbidden  at  any  rate ;  and  R. 
Hyya  b.  Abhin  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  It  is  permitted  as 
a  safeguard." 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following:  If  the  owner 
tied  the  (red)  heifer  with  a  halter,  she  may  nevertheless  be  used. 
Should  you  assume  that  this  (halter)  is  a  burden  (how  could  she 
be  used)  ?  (Do  not)  the  Scriptures  say  [Numbers,  xix.  2] : 
"  Upon  which  there  was  no  yoke"  ?  Answered  Abayi:  "  (It 
is  to  be  understood)  when  the  owner  leads  her  from  one  town 
to  another,  (the  halter  is  a  necessary  safeguard,  hence  no  bur- 
den)." Rabh  said:  "  There  is  quite  a  difference  in  the  case  of 
the  red  heifer,"  as  she  is  very  valuable  (and  must  be  guarded). 
Rabhina  said:  "  She  must  have  a  halter  on  account  of  her  stub- 
bornness." 

"  The  horse  with  a  collar.''  What  is  meant  by  "  go  about  " 
or  led  ?  R.  Huna  said:  "  It  makes  no  difference  whether  the 
strap  hangs  loose  on  the  animal's  neck  or  is  used  as  a  rein ;  but 
Samuel  said  they  may  go  about  if  led  (by  the  strap)  but  not 
(with  the  strap)  hanging  loose. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  93 

A  Boraitha  teaches:  "  They  may  go  about  with  the  halter 
tied  round  their  necks  in  order  that  they  may  be  led  whenever 
necessary."  Said  R.  Joseph:  "  I  have  seen  the  calves  of  R. 
Huna  going  out  on  a  Sabbath  with  their  halters  round  their 
necks."  R.  Samuel  b.  Jehudah,  when  coming  from  Palestine, 
said  in  the  name  of  R.  Hanina  that  Rabbi's  mules  also  went 
out  on  a  Sabbath  with  their  halters  tied  around  their  necks. 

"  And  are  sprinkled,"  etc.  Is  this  to  say  that  they  are  sub- 
ject to  defilement  ?  Does  not  a  Mishna  state  [Kelim,  XII,  8] 
that  only  rings  worn  by  human  beings  are  subject  to  defilement, 
but  harness  and  all  other  rings  are  not  ?  Said  R.  Itz'hak  of 
Naph'ha*:  The  collar-ring  having  at  one  time  been  used  by 
men  for  personal  purposes  and  become  defiled,  still  retains  its 
defiled  character;  R.  Joseph,  however,  maintains  it  is  not  neces- 
sary to  claim  this.  The  fact  that  the  collar-ring  is  used  by  man 
for  the  purpose  of  guiding  the  animal  lays  it  open  to  becoming 
defiled,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  Boraitha  which  taught  us :  A 
metal  whip  is  subject  to  defilement,  for  the  reason  that  man 
uses  it  to  manage  the  animal  with. 

' '  And  submerged  without  removing  it  from  its  place. ' '  Would 
this  not  constitute  a  case  of  "  Chatzitzah  "  (intervention). f  Said 
R.  Ami :  "  (Intervention  of  the  bridle  between  the  neck  and  the 
water)  is  avoided  by  loosening  the  bridle. ' '  A  Boraitha  teaches : 
"  Intervention  is  avoided  by  the  size  of  the  bridle." 

MISHNA  //. :  The  ass  may  go  out  with  a  rug  fastened 
around  him ;  rams  may  go  out  with  leather  bandages  tied 
around  their  privates;  sheep  may  go  out  with  their  tails  tied  up 
or  down  and  wrapped  (to  preserve  the  fine  wool);  she-goats  may 
go  out  with  their  udders  tied  up.  R.  Jossi  forbids  all  this 
except  sheep  wrapped  up.  R.  Jehudah  says:  She-goats  may 
go  out  with  their  udders  tied  up  to  stop  the  lactation,  but  not 
to  save  the  milk. 

GEMARA:  Said  Samuel:  The  Mishna  means:  "  Only  when 
the  (rug)  is  fastened  on  Sabbath  eve."  Said  R.  Na'hman :  It 
seems  to  be  so  from  the  following  Mishna:  "  An  ass  may  not 


*  Naph'ha  is  Aramaic  for  "  smith."  According  to  the  opinion  of  Dr.  I.  M. 
Wise,  the  reviser  of  this  Tract  in  the  first  edition,  Naph'ha  refers  to  the  city  whence 
R.  Itz'hak  came.  This  was  criticised,  but  we  found  the  same  was  said  by  Frankel 
and  many  others. 

f  When  any  article  of  apparel,  worn  by  a  person  or  animal  while  bathing,  inter- 
renes  between  the  body  and  the  water,  i.e.,  bars  the  admission  of  the  water  to  the 
fcody,  it  constitutes  a  case  of  "Chatzitzah." 


94  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

go  out  with  a  rug  unless  fastened."  How  should  this  be  under- 
stood ?  Shall  we  say  that  (the  rug)  is  not  fastened  at  all  ?  Then 
it  would  be  self-evident,  lest  it  fall  off  and  will  have  to  be  car- 
ried by  a  man.  We  must,  therefore,  assume  that  the  Mishna's 
meaning  of  "  not  fastened"  signifies  "  not  fastened  before  the 
Sabbath."     Hence  Samuel's  opinion  has  a  good  reason. 

And  it  is  also  supported  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "The 
ass  may  go  out  with  a  rug  fastened  before  the  Sabbath,  but  not 
with  a  saddle,  even  though  fastened  before."  R.  Simeon  b. 
Gamaliel  says:  "  Even  with  a  saddle,  if  fastened  before  the 
Sabbath,  provided,  however,  no  stirrups  are  attached  to  the 
saddle  and  a  crupper  under  the  tail." 

R.  Assi  b.  Nathan  questioned  R.  Hyya  b.  R.  Ashi:  Is  it 
permitted  to  put  a  rug  on  an  ass  on  the  Sabbath  ? "  "It  is," 
was  the  answer.  And  to  the  question:  "What  is  the  differ- 
ence (in  the  Law)  between  these  two  ?"  He  was  silent.  (Mis- 
interpreting the  silence,)  R.  Assi  objected :  "  A  Boraitha  teaches : 
It  is  not  allowed  to  remove  the  saddle  from  the  ass  directly,  but 
one  may  move  it  to  and  fro  until  it  falls  off;  if  you  say  it  is  for- 
bidden to  handle  the  saddle,  is  there  any  question  as  to  putting 
it  on  ?  "  Said  R.  Zera  to  him:  "  Leave  him  alone !  He  is  of  the 
opinion  of  his  teacher  (Rabh),  in  whose  name  R.  Hyya  b.  R. 
Ashi  related  that  he  (Rabh)  permitted  putting  a  feed-bag  on  an 
animal  on  Sabbath."  A  feed-bag,  which  is  nothing  but  an 
accommodation,  is  permitted;  so  much  the  more  a  rug,  which  is 
a  relief!  Samuel,  however,  permitted  a  rug,  but  prohibited 
a  feed-bag.  R.  Hyya  b.  Joseph  reported  the  opinion  of  Rabh 
to  Samuel,  whereupon  the  latter  said:  "If  so  said  Abba,  he 
knows  nothing  of  the  laws  of  Sabbath." 

When  R.  Zera  came  (to  Palestine),  he  heard  R.  Benjamin  b. 
Japheth  stating  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  that  it  is  permitted  to 
put  on  a  rug.  He  thanked  him  for  it  and,  continuing,  remarked : 
"Thus  has  the  Arioch  (King  of  Laws)  in  Babylon  decided." 
Who  is  meant  by  the  title  (Arioch)  ?     Samuel. 

From  the  foregoing  it  is  evident  that  all  agree  that  it  is  per- 
mitted to  cover  an  ass  with  a  rug  on  Sabbath.  But  what  is  the 
point  in  which  a  saddle  differs  from  the  rug  ?  It  differs  therein 
that  a  saddle  may  drop  off  (and  involve  the  necessity  of  hand- 
ling). R.  Papa  gave  another  reason:  "To  cover  an  ass  with 
a  rug  is  an  act  of  relief,  for  it  is  said  that  an  ass  feels  cold  even 
in  summer,  but  to  remove  a  saddle  from  an  ass's  back  in  order 
to  cool  off  the  ass  is  not  necessarily  an  act  of  relief." 


TRACT    SABBATH.  95 

An  objection  was  raised.  We  have  learned:  "  The  horse 
shall  not  go  out  with  a  fox-tail  (for  a  pompon)  and  calves  with 
the  feed-bags  on  public  ground."  Shall  we  not  assume  that  (in 
the  case  of  the  calves)  they  may  not  go  out  on  public  ground, 
but  they  may  on  private  ground,  and  it  refers  even  to  large 
calves  (whose  necks  are  long  enough  to  reach  the  ground 
with  their  mouths  easily);  thus  feed-bags  are  merely  an  accom- 
modation ?  Nay;  the  permission  to  carry  feed-bags  applies 
only  to  small  calves  (whose  necks  are  short  and  legs  long,  and 
to  which  reaching  down  to  the  ground  with  their  mouths 
would  entail  a  hardship)  and  must  be  considered  as  a  necessary 
relief. 

The  master  said:  "  She-goats  must  not  go  out  with  a  bag 
attached  to  their  udders."  Is  there  not  a  Boraitha  which 
teaches  that  they  ;/^«j  .^  Said  R.  Jehudah:  "This  presents  no 
difficulty.  In  the  former  case  the  bag  is  not  tied  fast,  in  the 
latter  it  is  (and  there  is  no  reason  for  apprehension  lest  it  drop 
off  and  will  have  to  be  carried)."  Said  R.  Joseph:  "  Why,  you 
have  entirely  done  away  with  the  teachers  of  our  Mishna. 
There  is  a  difference  of  opinion  between  the  teachers  in  this 
very  Mishna:  '  She-goats  may  go  out  with  a  bag  tied  to  their 
udders.'  "  R.  Jossi  forbids  all  except  sheep  with  covers  on  to 
protect  the  wool.  R.  Jehudah  says:  "  She-goats  may  go  out 
with  their  udders  tied  up  for  the  purpose  of  preventing  lacta- 
tion, but  not  for  the  purpose  of  saving  the  milk." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jehudah  related  the  case 
of  she-goats  which  he  saw  in  Antioch.  Their  udders  were  so 
large  that  bags  had  to  be  made  for  them  in  order  to  prevent 
their  dragging  on  the  ground  and  becoming  mutilated.  (These 
bags  were  worn  also  on  the  Sabbath.) 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  It  happened  with  one  man  whose  wife 
died  and  left  him  a  nursing  child,  he  was  so  poor  that  he  could 
not  pay  a  wet-nurse.  A  miracle  happened  to  him ;  his  breasts 
opened  and  he  nursed  his  child."  Said  R.  Joseph:  Come  and 
see  how  great  the  man  must  have  been  that  such  a  miracle  was 
wrought  for  him.  Said  Abayi  to  him  :  On  the  contrary,  Behold 
how  bad  the  man  must  have  been  that  the  nature  of  mankind 
changed  in  him  and  nothing  occurred  to  enable  him  to  earn 
enough  money  to  pay  a  nurse.  Says  R.  Jehudah :  Come  and  see 
how  hard  it  is  for  heaven  to  change  the  fate  of  a  man  concern- 
ing his  livelihood,  that  the  nature  of  the  world  was  changed,  but 
not  his  fate.     Said  R.  Na'hman :  It  is  proven  by  this  fact  that 


96  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

a  miracle  occurred,  but  he  was  not  provided  with  means  for  pay- 
ing a  wet-nurse. 

The  rabbis  taught  "  It  happened  once  that  a  man  wedded 
a  woman  with  a  mutilated  hand,  and  did  not  discover  it  until 
she  died."  Said  Rabh :  "  Behold  how  chaste  this  woman  must 
have  been,  for  even  her  husband  did  not  discover  it."  R.  Hyya 
retorted:  "  This  is  nothing!  It  is  natural  with  women  to  hide 
their  defects,  but  note  the  modesty  of  the  man,  who  did  not 
discover  it  in  his  wife." 

"  Rams  may  go  out  with  (leather)  bands  around  their  pri- 
vates." What  kind  of  bands?  Said  R.  Huna:  "  Hobbles." 
Ulla  said  they  were  leather  bands  tied  around  their  breasts  to 
prevent  them  from  the  attack  of  wolves.  Do  wolves  attack 
only  the  males  and  never  the  females  ?  It  is  because  the  males 
always  go  ahead  of  the  flocks.  Do  wolves  attack  only  the 
advance  of  a  flock  and  never  the  rear  ?  It  is  because  the  males 
are  usually  fat.  Are  there  no  fat  sheep  among  the  females  ? 
Moreover,  how  can  the  wolves  know  which  is  which  ?  It  is 
because  the  males  generally  lift  their  heads  and  look  around 
cautiously.  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  said  they  wore  leather  bands 
tied  around  their  privates  to  prevent  them  from  having  coition 
with  the  females.  Whence  this  inference  ?  From  the  last 
clause  of  the  Mishna,  "  The  sheep  may  go  out  with  their  tails 
tied  up,"  in  order  that  the  males  may  have  coition  with  them; 
hence  we  infer  that  the  first  clause  is  for  the  purpose  of  prevent- 
ing them. 

"  She-goats  may  go  out  with  a  bag  tied  around  their  udders. " 
It  was  taught :  Rabh  said  that  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Jehudah;  and  Samuel  held  it  to  be  in  accordance 
with  R.  Jossi.  Others  taught :  Rabh  and  Samuel  did  not 
directly  cite  the  opinions  of  the  Tanaim  just  mentioned,  but 
they  themselves  decreed  as  follows:  Rabh  held  that  she-goats 
may  go  out  with  their  udders  tied  up  for  the  purpose  of  pre- 
venting lactation,  but  not  to  save  the  milk.  Samuel,  how- 
ever, prohibited  this  in  both  cases.  Others  again  say:  R. 
Jehudah  b.  Bathyra  long  ago  decided  the  same  as  Rabh,  but 
added  that  on  account  of  the  impossibility  of  determining  what 
purpose  the  tying  up  of  the  udders  would  serve,  it  is  entirely 
prohibited.  Thereupon  Samuel  decided  that  the  Halakha  pre- 
vails with  him.  Rabbin  upon  his  arrival  in  Babylon  said  that  R. 
Johanan  said  that  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  the 
first  Tana. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  97 

MISHNA  ///. :  And  what  must  (animals)  not  go  about  in  ? 
The  camel  with  a  crupper,  nor  with  hobbles  on  both  legs,  nor 
with  the  front  leg  hobbled  with  the  hind.  This  law  is  applied 
to  all  other  animals.  It  is  not  allowed  to  tie  camels  together 
with  a  rope  and  then  lead  them ;  but  one  is  permitted  to  hold 
in  his  hand  the  several  ropes  on  the  camels  and  lead  them,  pro- 
vided the  ropes  are  not  twisted  into  one. 

GEMARA:  A  Boraitha  in  addition  to  this  Mishna  states: 
"  If  the  crupper  is  fastened  to  the  hump  as  well  as  to  the  tail  of 
the  camel,  it  may  go  about."  Rabba  b.  R.  H una  says:  A  camel 
may  go  about  with  a  pad  under  its  tail  (to  prevent  friction). 

"  One  is  not  to  tie  camels."     What  is  the  reason  ?     Said  R 
Ashi:  Because  it  looks  like  leading  them  to  market. 

"But  one  is  permitted  to  hold  in  his  ha7id"  etc.  Said  R. 
Ashi :  This  law  was  stated  only  concerning  (Kilaim),  and 
hence  the  teacher  means  to  say,  provided  he  does  not  tie  or 
twist  them.  Samuel  said:  And  provided  the  cords  do  not 
protrude  from  his  hand  as  much  as  the  length  of  a  span.  Was 
it  not  taught  at  the  school  of  Samuel,  two  spans  ?  Said  Abayi: 
From  the  difference  between  Samuel  himself  and  his  school  we 
infer  that  Samuel  came  to  teach  us  how  to  practise.  But  did 
not  a  Boraitha  state :  Provided  he  lifts  (the  cords)  from  the 
ground  one  span  (but  there  is  no  restriction  as  to  the  quantity 
protruding  from  his  hands)  ?  The  non-restriction  of  the  quan- 
tity of  cord  applies  only  to  the  amount  of  cord  used  for  the  dis- 
tance between  the  animal  and  the  man's  hand.  (In  that  case 
the  quantity  is  unlimited.  The  quantity  of  cord,  however,  pro- 
truding from  the  man's  hand  must  not  exceed  one  span;  so  also 
the  distance  from  the  ground  to  the  cords  must  be  at  least  one 
span.) 

MISHNA  IV. :  The  ass  is  not  to  go  out  with  a  rug,  unless 
fastened,  neither  with  a  bell  that  has  been  muffled,  nor  with 
a  collar  on  his  neck,  nor  with  ankle-boots.  The  hens  are  not  to 
go  out  with  cords  tied  to  them,  nor  with  straps  on  their  feet. 
Rams  are  not  to  go  out  with  carts  tied  to  their  tails ;  nor  sheep 
with  sneezing-wood ;  the  calf  with  the  reed  yoke,  nor  the  cow 
with  the  skin  of  a  hedgehog  (tied  to  the  udder),  nor  with  a  strap 
(between  her  horns).  The  cow  of  R.  Elazar  b.  Azarya  went 
out  with  a  strap  between  the  horns  against  the  approval  of  the 
rabbis. 

GEMARA:  "Neither  with  a  bell  that  has  been  muffled." 
For  it  looks  like  bringing  it  to  market. 

VOL.   I. — 7 


98  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

'*  Nor  zvith  a  collar  on  his  neck."  Said  R.  Huna:  With  a 
collar  underneath  his  jowls.  What  was  the  collar  intended  for  ? 
To  prevent  irritation  of  any  wounds  that  may  have  been  on  the 
neck. 

"Nor  with  ankle-boots."  To  prevent  injury  from  kicking 
one  foot  against  the  other. 

"  The  hens  with  cords."     As  a  distinguishing  mark. 

"  Nor  with  straps  on  their  feet."  To  prevent  damage  arising 
from  jumping. 

"  The  rqms  with  carts."  To  prevent  the  ends  of  their  tails 
from  damage  through  trailing  on  the  ground. 

"Nor  sheep  with  sneezitig-wood."  (What  is  it?)  Said  R. 
Huna:  "  In  seaports  there  is  to  be  found  a  kind  of  tree  called 
'Hanun,  which  produces  sneezing-wood,  which  when  held  under 
a  sheep's  nose  produces  sneezing,  and  while  sneezing  such  ver- 
min as  may  have  lodged  in  the  sheep's  head  are  expelled.  If 
such  be  the  case,  may  rams  not  go  out  with  it  either  ?  For 
rams  sneezing-wood  is  not  used  at  all.  They  butt  with  their 
heads,  therefore  vermin  drops  out  of  its  own  accord. 

"  Nor  the  cow  with  the  skin  of  the  hedgehog"  etc.  To  pre- 
vent leeches  from  sticking  to  the  udder. 

"  Nor  with  the  strap  between  the  horns."  Why  not  ?  Either 
in  accordance  with  Rabh,  who  forbids  it  at  any  rate,  or  in  accord- 
ance with  Samuel,  who  forbids  it  as  an  ornament. 

"  The  cow  of  R.  Elazar  b.  Azarya"  etc.  Had  he  only  one 
cow  ?  Did  not  Rabh,  or  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  say 
that  R.  Elazar  b.  Azarya  gave  yearly  as  tithes  from  his  herds 
as  many  as  twelve  thousand  calves  ?  We  have  learned  (in  a 
Boraitha):  The  cow  in  question  was  not  his,  but  a  neighboring 
woman's.  It  is  only  ascribed  to  him  because  he  did  not  protest 
against  it. 

Rabh,  R.  Hanina,  R.  Jonathan,  and  R.  Habiba  [in  the  whole 
Section  of  Festivals,  where  the  four  names  stand  together,  R. 
Jonathan  must  be  read  instead  of  R.  Johanan]  all  said:  He 
who  has  the  power  to  protest  against  wrong  in  his  house  and 
does  not  do  so,  is  responsible  for  (the  transgressions  of)  every 
one  in  his  house.  In  the  city  (where  his  protest  would  be  rec- 
ognized), he  is  responsible  for  the  transgressions  of  every  one  of 
the  inhabitants  of  the  city;  and  if  he  is  such  a  great  man  that 
his  word  would  be  respected  in  the  whole  world,  he  is  punished 
for  (transgressions  of  all)  mankind.  Said  R.  Papa:  "And  the 
Exilarchs  are  punished  for  the  sins  of  all  Israel."     As  R.  Hanina 


TRACT   SABBATH. 


99 


said:  It  is  written  :  "  The  Eternal  will  enter  into  judgment  with 
the  elders  of  his  people  and  with  the  princes  thereof"  [Isaiah, 
iii.  14].  If  the  princes  sinned,  what  have  the  elders  to  do  with 
it  ?  The  intent  is  to  say :  Because  the  elders  did  not  protest 
against  the  princes. 

R.  Jehudah  sat  before  Samuel,  when  a  woman  came  in  com- 
plaining, and  Samuel  paid  no  attention  to  her.  Said  R.  Jehu- 
dah to  him:  "  Is  Master  unaware  of  the  passage:  Whosoever 
stops  his  ears  at  cry  of  the  poor,  he  also  shall  cry  himself  and 
not  be  heard  "  ?  [Prov.  xxi.  13].  Samuel  retorted:  "  Ingenious 
scholar!  Your  head-master  (meaning  himself)  is  on  safe  ground, 
but  our  Chief  is  responsible,"  Mar  Uqba,  being  at  that  time 
Chief  of  the  Judges  (it  was  his  affair),  for  it  is  written  [Jerem. 
xxi.  12]:  "  O  House  of  David!  Thus  hath  said  the  Lord:  Ex- 
ercise justice  on  (every)  morning,  and  deliver  him  that  is  robbed 
out  of  the  hand  of  the  oppressor,  lest  my  fury  go  forth  like  fire, 
and  burn  so  that  none  can  quench  it,  because  of  the  evil  of  your 
doings." 

Said  R.  Zera  to  R.  Simon:  "  Let  Master  reprove  the  Exi- 
larch's  retainers."  He  answered:  "They  care  not  for  me." 
Rejoined  R.  Zera:  Even  if  they  do  not  care,  reprove  them 
anyhow;  for  R.  Aha  b.  Hanina  said:  The  Holy  One,  blessed 
be  He,  never  issued  a  benevolent  decree,  which  He  subse- 
quently reversed  into  malevolence,  except  in  this  sole  instance, 
which  is  written  [Ezekiel,  ix.  41]:  "And  the  Lord  said  unto 
him.  Pass  through  the  midst  of  the  city,  through  the  midst  of 
Jerusalem,  and  inscribe  a  mark  upon  the  foreheads,"  etc.  Thus 
said  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  to  Gabriel:  "  Go  and  set  the 
mark  (the  Hebrew  letter  Tabh)  in  ink  upon  the  foreheads  of  the 
righteous,  that  the  angels  of  destruction  have  no  power  over 
them ;  and  the  same  mark  in  blood  upon  the  foreheads  of  the 
wicked,  that  the  angels  of  destruction  may  have  power  over 
them."  The  Party  of  Prosecution  pleaded  before  Him  in  these 
terms:  "  Lord  of  the  Universe,  what  is  the  difference  between 
the  two?"  He  answered:  "Those  are  perfectly  righteous 
and  these  completely  wicked."  Again  the  Party  of  Prosecution 
pleaded:  "  Lord  of  the  Universe!  It  was  in  their  power  to 
protest  (against  wickedness),  and  they  did  not."  And  the 
Lord  answered:  "It  is  known  to  me  that,  had  they  protested, 
their  protest  would  have  been  of  no  avail."  But  they  pleaded 
once  more:  "  Lord  of  the  Universe!  It  is  known  to  Thee;  but 
was  it  known  to  them  ?  "     And  thus  it  is  written :  "  Slay  utterly 


loo  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

old  and  young,  both  maids,  little  children,  and  women,  and  at 
my  sanctuary  shall  ye  begin,"  Then  they  began  with  the  old 
men  who  were  before  the  house"  [Ezek.  ix.  6].  And  R. 
Joseph  taught:  "  Do  not  read  '  my  sanctuary,'  but  *  my  sancti- 
fied,' which  means  the  men  who  have  performed  all  the  laws 
prescribed  in  the  Torah,  which  begins  with  all  the  letters  of  the 
alphabet.  And  it  is  also  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  2]:  "And  behold, 
six  men  came  from  the  direction  of  the  upper  gate  .... 
beside  the  copper  altar."  Was,  then,  the  copper  altar  at  that 
time  ?  Was  it  not  hidden  already  in  the  time  of  Solomon  ? 
It  means  that  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  told  them  they 
shall  begin  from  that  place  where  they  used  to  sing  hymns 
before  Him.  And  who  are  the  six  men  (messengers)  ?  Said 
R.  Hisda:  "  Anger,  wrath,  rage,  destruction,  devastation,  and 
ruin." 

Why  just  the  letter  Tabh  ?  Said  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish: 
"  The  Tabh  is  the  last  letter  on  the  seal  of  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He;  for  R.  Hanina  said  (the  inscription  on)  the  seal 
of  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  is  Emeth  (truth)  (and  the  last 
letter  of  the  Hebrew  word  Emeth  is  a  Tabh). 

It  being  evident  from  the  verse  [Ezek.  ix.  2]  that  Zechuth 
Aboth  *  no  longer  existed,  at  what  time  shall  we  assume  that  it 
ceased  ? 

Said  Rabh:  From  the  time  of  the  prophet  Hosea  b.  Beeri, 
as  it  is  written  [Hosea,  ii.  12]:  "  And  no  man  will  deliver  her 
out  of  my  hand,"  meaning  that  even  the  righteousness  of  the 
ancestors  will  be  of  no  avail. 

Samuel  said:  From  the  time  of  the  King  Chazael  of  Syria, 
as  it  is  written  [II  Kings,  xiii.  23]:  "And  the  Lord  became 
gracious  unto  them,  and  had  mercy  on  them,  and  turned  his 
regard  unto  them,  because  of  his  covenant  with  Abraham, 
Isaac,  and  Jacob,  and  would  not  destroy  them,  and  he  cast 
them  not  off  from  his  presence  until  now."  Thus,  He  will 
remember  his  covenant  only  "  until  now,"  but  not  after  that. 

R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi  said:  From  the  time  of  Elijah  the 
prophet,  as  it  is  written  [I  Kings,  xviii.  16:"  Elijah  the  prophet 
came  near  and  said,  O  Lord,  God  of  Abraham,  of  Isaac,  and  of 
Israel,  this  day  let  it  be  known  that  thou  art  God  in  Israel," 

*  Zechuth  Aboth  is  a  term  implying  the  benefits  bestowed  upon  men  in  consid- 
eration of  the  virtues  and  righteousness  of  their  ancestors,  and  is  based  upon  the  pas- 
sage in  the  Bible  :  "  Keeping  kindness  unto  the  thousandth  generation,"  etc.  [Ex. 
xxxiv.  7]  ;  and  also  upon  the  verse  Ex.  xxxii.  13. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  loi 

etc.,  and  means  to  infer  that  only"  this  day"  the  Lord  will 
remember  Zechuth  Aboth,  and  not  after  this  day. 

R.  Joharian  says:  From  the  time  of  Hezekiah  the  King,  as 
it  is  written  [Isaiah,  ix.  6J :  "To  establish  it  and  to  support  it 
through  justice  and  righteousness,  from  henceforth  and  unto 
eternity:  the  zeal  of  the  Lord  of  Hosts  will  do  this,"  implying 
that  after  that  the  favors  of  the  Lord  will  not  be  bestowed  by 
virtue  of  Zechuth  Aboth,  but  through  His  zeal. 

R.  Ami  said :  Death  is  the  result  of  sin,  and  afifliction  the 
result  of  transgression:  death  the  result  of  sin,  for  it  is  written 
[Ezekiel,  xviii.  20]:  "The  soul  that  sins,  it  shall  die,"  etc.; 
afifliction  the  result  of  transgression:  for  it  is  written  [Psalms, 
Ixxxix.  33]:  "  And  I  will  visit  their  transgressions  with  a  lash 
and  their  iniquity  with  stripes." 

An  objection  was  raised:  One  of  the  teachers  said:  The 
angels  (once)  said  to  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He:  "  Lord  of 
the  Universe!  Why  didst  Thou  punish  Adam  with  death?" 
The  Lord  answered:  "  Because  I  gave  him  a  light  command- 
ment, and  he  failed  to  observe  it."  The  angels  again  said  unto 
Him:  "  Why  did  Moses  and  Aaron  die?  Did  they  not  observe 
all  the  laws  of  the  Torah  ?"  And  He  answered  [Eccl.  ix.  2]: 
"  The  same  fate  befalls  the  righteous  as  the  wicked."  Hence 
death  is  not  the  result  of  sin !  He  (R.  Ami)  is  in  accordance 
with  the  Tana  of  the  following  Boraitha:  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar 
said:  Even  the  death  of  Moses  and  Aaron  was  the  result  of 
their  sins,  for  it  is  written  [Numb.  xx.  12]:  "  Because  you  had 
no  faith  in  me";  (and  the  inference  thereof  is)  if  they  had  had 
faith,  they  would  not  have  died. 

Another  objection  was  raised :  (There  is  a  tradition :)  Only 
four  men  died  in  consequence  of  original  sign.  They  are  Ben- 
jamin ben  Jacob;  Amram,  the  father  of  Moses;  Jesse,  the 
father  of  David;  and  Kilab  ben  David.  Whose  opinion  does 
this  Boraitha  agree  with  ?  The  Tana  who  related  the  legend  of 
the  angels  holds  that  Moses  and  Aaron  also  died  in  consequence 
of  original  sin.  So  must  be  then  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon 
b.  Elazar,  as  said  above.  Thus  we  see  that  although  Moses  and 
Aaron  died  on  account  of  their  own  sins,  still  death  without  sin 
and  afifliction  without  transgression  are  possible ;  hence  R.  Ami's 
theory  is  objected  to. 

R.  Samuel  b.  Nahmeni  in  the  name  of  R.  Jonathan  said: 
"  Whoever  says  that  Reuben  (the  patriarch  Jacob's  son)  sinned 
with  his  father's  wife  is  in  error,  because  it  is  written  [Gen. 


I02  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

XXXV.  22] :  "  Now  the  sons  of  Jacob  were  twelve."  This  proves 
to  us  that  they  were  all  equal  (in  righteousness) ;  but  what  does 
the  verse  [ibid.,  ibid.]  which  states  that  he  did  lie  with  Bilha, 
etc.,  signify  ?  That  Reuben  deranged  his  father's  bed,  and  the 
Scripture  considers  this  equal  to  his  having  sinned  with  her. 
There  is  another  Boraitha:  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said:  That  right- 
eous man  (Reuben)  is  innocent  of  the  crime.  The  act  with  his 
father's  wife  was  never  consummated;  as,  is  it  possible  that 
a  man  whose  descendants  will  stand  on  the  Mount  Ebol  and 
proclaim:  "  Cursed  be  he  who  lies  with  his  father's  wife  "  [Deut. 
xxvii.  20],  would  commit  such  a  crime  ?  But  what  does  the 
above-cited  verse  mean  ?  He  (Reuben)  resented  the  injustice 
done  his  mother  and  said :  "  When  my  mother's  sister  lived  and 
proved  a  vexation  to  my  mother,  it  was  bearable ;  but  to  have 
my  mother's  servant  prove  a  vexation  to  her,  this  is  unbear- 
able !  "  Therefore  he  removed  the  bed  of  Bilha  from  his  father's 
bedroom  (which  the  verse  holds  tantamount  to  lying  with  her). 
R.  Samuel  b.  Nahmeni  in  the  name  of  R.  Jonathan  said:  He 
who  maintains  that  the  sons  of  Eli  have  sinned  is  nothing  but 
in  error,  as  it  is  written  [I  Samuel,  i.  3] :  "  .  .  .  two  sons 
.  .  .  priests  of  the  Lord."  (And  if  they  would  have  sinned, 
the  verse  would  not  elevate  them  with  such  an  honor.)  [He 
holds  with  Rabh's  theory  farther  on ;  however,  he  differs  from 
him  concerning  'Haphni,  for  the  reason  that  he  is  mentioned 
together  with  Pinhas  in  the  verse  cited.] 

Rabh  said:  Pinhas  did  not  sin,  as  it  is  written :  "  And  Ahiya, 
the  son  of  Ahitub,  Ichabad's  brother,  the  son  of  Pinhas,  son  of 
Eli,  was  priest  of  the  Lord  at  Shilah  "  [I  Samuel,  xiv.  3].  Is 
it  possible  that  the  Scriptures  would  describe  minutely  the  pedi- 
gree of  a  sinner  ?  Is  it  not  written:  "  The  Lord  will  cut  off, 
unto  the  man  that  doeth  this,  son  and  grandson,"  etc.  [Mai.  ii. 
12].  That  was  explained  to  mean,  if  he  be  simply  an  Israelite 
he  shall  have  here  no  master  among  the  teachers  and  no  scholar 
among  disciples,  and  if  he  is  a  descendant  of  priests,  he  shall 
have  no  son  who  may  bring  the  offering.  From  this  we  must 
conclude  that  Pinhas  is  innocent  of  guilt.  Is  it  not  written, 
however,  "sons  of  Belial"  (and  thus  Pinhas  is  included)?  It 
was  because  he  should  have  protested  against  it,  and  did  not, 
the  Scripture  considers  it  as  if  he  had  also  sinned. 

The  same  said  again :  He  who  thinks  the  sons  of  Samuel 
sinned,  is  also  in  error.  It  is  written :  "  And  they  did  not  walk 
in  his  ways"  [I  Sam.  viii.  3].    True,  they  did  not  walk  in  His 


TRACT    SABBATH.  103 

ways,  but  they  sinned  not.  How,  then,  is  the  passage  to  be 
upheld:  "And  they  but  turned  aside  after  lucre  and  took 
bribes"  ?  [ibid.,  ibid.].  They  did  not  act  as  their  father;  for 
Samuel  the  righteous  travelled  through  all  Israel  and  dispensed 
justice  in  ever}^  city,  as  it  is  written:  "  And  he  went  from  year 
to  year  in  circuit  to  Beth-El  and  Gilgal  and  Mizpah,  and  judged 
Israel"  [ibid.  vii.  6];  but  they  did  not  act  in  this  way.  They 
dwelt  in  their  respective  places  in  order  to  increase  the  fees  of 
their  messengers  and  scribes. 

On  this  point  the  following  Tanaim  differ.  R.  Meir  says: 
They  (who  were  Levites  themselves)  claimed  their  priestly  allow- 
ance personally  (and  thereby  deprived  the  poor  priests  and 
Levites  of  their  shares,  for  being  also  judges  thej^  were  never 
refused).  R.  Jehudah  says:  They  had  commercial  relations 
with  private  people  (and  were  sometimes  compelled  to  pervert 
justice).  R.  Aqiba  says:  They  took  tithes  (to  a  greater  extent 
than  they  were  allowed  to  do)  by  force.  R.  Jossi  says:  They 
took  by  force  the  (priests')  portions  (shoulder-blades,  jowls,  and 
stomachs  of  a  slaughtered  animal). 

He  said  again  :  "  The  same  error  is  made  concerning  David." 
Said  Rabh:  Rabbi,  who  is  a  descendant  of  the  house  of  David, 
endeavored  to  interpret  favorably  the  passage :  "  Wherefore  hast 
thou  despised  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  do  what  is  evil  in  his 
eyes  ?"  [II  Samuel,  xii.  9].  He  said:  This  evil  deed  is  differ- 
ent (in  words  and  language  from  other  evil  deeds  whereof  men- 
tion is  made  in  the  Scriptures).  In  all  other  instances  it  says, 
"  and  he  has  done,"  but  here  it  says,  "to  do."  This  implies 
that  he  "  wanted  to  do  "  (but  did  not  do).  "  Uriah  the  Hittite 
thou  hast  slain  with  the  sword  "  [ibid.,  ibid.].  (As  a  rebel)  he 
should  have  had  him  tried  by  the  Sanhedrin,  which  he  did 
not.  "  And  his  wife  thou  hast  taken  to  thee  for  a  wife."  He 
had  a  right  to  her,  for  R.  Samuel  b.  Nahmeni  in  the  name  of 
R,  Jonathan  said:  Whoever  went  to  war  with  David  divorced 
his  wife  previously.  "  Him  thou  hast  slain  with  the  sword 
(used)  for  the  children  of  Amon."  As  he  will  not  be  punished 
on  account  of  the  children  of  Amon,  so  will  he  also  not  be  pun- 
ished for  the  death  of  Uriah.  What  is  the  reason  ?  He  (Uriah) 
was  a  rebel. 

Said  Rabh  :  "  Note  well  the  life  of  David,  and  you  find  noth- 
ing blamable  save  the  affair  of  Uriah,  as  it  is  written  [I  Kings, 
XV.  5] :  "  Save  only  in  the  matter  of  Uriah  the  Hittite." 

Abayi  the  elder  has  contradicted  the  above  statement  of 


I04  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Rabh  from  his  own  statement  elsewhere  that  David  accepted 
slander?  This  difficulty  remains.  What  was  it  ?  That  which 
is  written  [II  Samuel,  ix.  4]:  "And  the  king  said  unto  him. 
Where  is  he  ?  And  Ziba  said  unto  the  king,  Behold,  he  is  in 
the  house  of  Machir,  the  son  of  'Ammiel,  in  {F)  Lo-debar"; 
farther  on  it  is  written  [ibid.  5]:  "And  David  the  king  sent, 
and  had  him  taken  out  of  the  house  of  Machir,  the  son  of  'Am- 
miel, from  {in)  Lo-debar."*  Thus,  when  David  found  him 
"  doing  something  (good),"  whereas  Ziba  informed  the  King 
that  he  was  "  doing  nothing  (good),"  hence  David  was  con- 
vinced that  Ziba  was  a  liar;  why,  then,  did  David  give  heed  to 
his  slander  afterwards,  for  it  is  written  [ibid.  xvi.  3]:  "  And  the 
king  said.  And  where  is  thy  master's  son  ?  And  Ziba  said  unto 
the  king.  Behold,  he  remaineth  at  Jerusalem;  for  he  said, 
To-day  will  the  house  of  Israel  restore  unto  me  the  kingdom  of 
my  father."  But  whence  the  adduction  that  David  accepted 
slander?  From  what  is  written  further  [ibid.  4]:  "Then  said 
the  king  to  Ziba,  Behold,  thine  shall  be  all  that  pertaineth  to 
Mephibosheth.     And  Ziba  said,"  etc. 

Samuel  said :  David  did  not  accept  slander.  He  (himself) 
saw  in  Mephibosheth's  conduct  that  which  corroborated  Ziba's 
calumny,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.  xix.  25]:  "And  Mephibosheth 
the  (grand-)son  of  Saul  came  down  to  meet  the  king,  and  he 
had  not  dressed  his  feet,  nor  trimmed  his  beard,  nor  washed  his 
clothes."  (This  was  considered  disrespect);  further,  it  is  writ- 
ten [ibid.  28]:  "And  he  slandered  thy  servant  unto  my  lord 
the  king,"  etc.;  and  further  [ibid.  31]:  "And  Mephibosheth 
said  unto  the  king.  Yea,  let  him  take  the  whole,  since  that  my 
lord  the  king  is  come  (back)  in  peace  unto  his  own  house." 
Now,  this  last  verse  (read  between  the  lines)  really  means:  "  I 
have  anticipated  your  safe  arrival  home  with  anxiety,  and  since 
you  act  toward  me  in  such  a  manner,  I  have  nothing  to  com- 
plain of  to  you  but  to  Him  who  brought  you  safely  back." 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  "  Had  David  not 
given  heed  to  slander,  the  kingdom  of  the  house  of  David  would 
never  have  been  divided,  neither  would  Israel  have  worshipped 
idols,  nor  would  we  have  been  exiled  from  our  land." 

The  same  rabbi  said :  He  who  believes  Solomon   guilty  of 

*  The  literal  translation  of  the  Hebrew  word  Blo-debar  is  :  he  does  nothing 
(good) ;  of  Mlo-debar  :  he  is  very  busy  (doing  something  good).  Upon  the  differ- 
ence in  the  two  literal  meanings  of  the  two  words  Rabh  bases  the  untruth  of  Ziba's 
statement. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  105 

idolatry  is  in  error.  This  theory  agrees  with  R.  Nathan,  who 
points  to  a  contradiction  between  the  two  following  passages  in 
the  very  same  verse  [I  Kings,  xi.  4] :  "  And  it  came  to  pass,  at 
the  time  when  Solomon  was  old,  that  his  wives  turned  away  his 
heart,"  etc.;  and  farther  on  [ibid.,  ibid.]  it  says:  "Like  the 
heart  of  David  his  father."  While  his  heart  was  not  as  perfect 
as  that  of  his  father  David,  still  he  did  not  sin.  Therefore  it 
must  be  said  that  it  means,  his  wives  turned  away  his  heart 
toward  idolatry,  but  still  he  did  not  practise  it.  This  is  sup- 
ported by  the  following  Boraitha:  R.  Jossi  said:  It  is  written 
[II  Kings,  iii.  13]:  "And  the  high  places  that  were  before 
Jerusalem,  which  were  to  the  right  of  the  mount  of  destruction, 
which  Solomon  the  King  of  Israel  had  built  for  Ashthoreth,  the 
abomination  of  the  Zidonians,"  etc.  Is  it  possible  that  neither 
Assa  nor  Jehosophath  had  cleared  them  out  before  Josiah  ? 
Did  not  Assa  and  Jehosophath  abolish  idolatry  in  Judea  ?  It 
follows,  then,  that  as  Josiah  is  given  credit  by  the  verse  in  the 
Scripture  for  having  abolished  the  worship  of  Ashthoreth,  the 
abomination  of  the  Zidonians,  although  at  his  time  it  had  been 
out  of  existence  for  a  long  time,  this  was  done  merely  because 
he  (Josiah)  had  abolished  other  later  forms  of  idolatry;  the  same 
rule  is  followed  in  the  case  of  Solomon ;  while  he  himself  did 
not  build  the  Ashthoreth  of  the  Zidonians,  the  fact  that  he  did 
not  prevent  his  wives  from  doing  so  makes  him  responsible  in 
the  same  measure  as  if  he  had  committed  the  deed  himself. 
But  is  it  not  written  [I  Kings,  xi.  6] :  "  And  Solomon  did  what 
is  evil  in  the  eyes  of  the  Lord  "  ?  This  is  also  written  merely 
because  it  was  in  his  power  to  prevent  the  actions  of  his  wives, 
and  he  did  not  do  so;  hence  the  Scripture  ascribes  the  deed  to 
him,  as  if  he  himself  had  committed  it. 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  It  would  have  been 
better  for  him  (Solomon)  to  have  been  an  actual  hireling  to  idol- 
atry than  to  be  accused  of  doing  what  is  evil  in  the  eyes  of  the 
Lord. 

Again  R.  Jehudah  said  in  Samuel's  name:  At  the  time  Solo- 
mon took  in  wedlock  the  daughter  of  Pharaoh,  she  brought  to 
him  about  a  thousand  different  musical  instruments.  Each  of 
these  was  used  for  separate  idols,  which  she  named  to  him,  and 
still  he  did  not  protest  against  it. 

The  same  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority:  At 
the  time  Solomon  took  in  wedlock  Pharaoh's  daughter  (the 
angel)  Gabriel  came  down  and  planted  a  cane  in  the  sea;  on  the 


lo6  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

sand  that  accumulated  around  the  cane  a  great  city  was  after- 
ward built ;  but  in  a  Boraitha  we  were  taught  that  the  miracle 
occurred  on  the  day  that  Jeroboam  introduced  the  two  golden 
calves,  one  each  in  Beth-El  and  Dan,  and  that  great  city  was 
Italia  of  Greece.^ 

R.  Samuel  said:  Whoever  says  Josiah  sinned  is  also  in  error. 
It  is  written  [II  Kings,  xxii.  2] :  "  And  he  did  what  was  right  in 
the  eyes  of  the  Lord  and  walked  in  the  ways  of  David  his  father 
and  turned  not  aside  to  the  right  or  to  the  left."  Is  this  not 
contradictory  to  the  verse  [II  Kings,  xxiii.  25],  "  that  returned 
to  the  Lord  with  all  his  heart."  How  is  the  "  returned  "  to  be 
understood  ?  He  must  have  sinned  in  order  to  return  ?  Nay; 
from  this  it  must  be  inferred  that  after  Josiah  attained  the  age 
of  eighteen,  he  refunded  from  his  private  purse  all  amounts  paid 
by  such  as  he  had  declared  guilty  (bound  to  pay)  from  the  time 
he  was  eight  years  old  (when  he  became  king).  This  is  the 
interpretation  of  "  returned  to  the  Lord." 

However,  this  differs  from  Rabh's  following  statement: 
"  None  is  greater  among  penitents  than  Josiah  in  his  time  and 
one  in  our  own  time.  And  who  is  he?  Aba,  the  father  of 
Jeremiah  b.  Aba.  Others  say  Aha,  the  brother  of  Aba,  father 
of  Jeremiah  b.  Aba,  for  the  aforesaid  teacher  said  Aba  and  Aha 
were  brothers.  Said  R.  Joseph :  There  is  yet  another  in  our 
own  time,  and  he  is  Ukban  b.  Ne'hemiah,  the  Exilarch.f 
"  Once  while  studying,"  said  R.  Joseph,  "  I  dozed  off  and  saw 
in  a  dream  an  angel  stretching  out  his  hands  and  accepting  his 
(Ukban's)  repentance." 

*  Rashi  added  to  this  that  the  Romans  took  away  this  city  from  the  Greeks,  and 
therefore  the  Roman  kingdom  is  called  Italy  ;  we,  however,  deem  it  an  error,  as  we 
have  found  that  such  a  city  is  in  Greece. 

f  The  text  states  :  "  And  that  is  Nathan  of  Zuzitha  "  ;  and  Rashi  tried  to  explain 
the  word  Zuzitha  "  with  sparks,"  or  because  the  angel  took  him  by  the  Zizith  (locks) 
of  his  head.  We  have  omitted  this  because  it  is  proved  jy  Abraham  Krochmal  in  his 
"  Remarks  to  the  Talmud,"  article  "  The  Chain  of  the  Exilarch,"  that  Ne'hemiah 
the  Exilarch  and  Nathan  the  Exilarch  were  of  two  different  times,  many  generations 
apart.     (See  there.) 


CHAPTER  VI. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING     WHAT     GARMENTS     (SERVING     AS    ORNA- 
MENTS)  WOMEN    MAY    GO    OUT    WITH    ON    THE    SABBATH. 

MISHNA  /. :  In  what  (ornamental)  apparel  may  a  woman 
go  out,  and  in  what  may  she  not  go  out  ?  A  woman  is  not 
allowed  to  go  out  (even  in  private  ground)  either  with  woollen 
or  linen  bands  or  with  straps  on  her  head  to  keep  her  hair  in 
tresses  (as  a  precaution  lest  she  enter  public  ground  and  take  off 
the  bands  to  show  to  her  friends,  thereby  becoming  guilty  of 
carrying  movable  property  for  a  distance  of  four  ells  or  more). 
Nor  is  she  to  bathe  herself  with  the  bands  on  unless  loosened. 
Nor  is  she  to  go  out  with  either  Totaphoth  or  Sarbitin  on, 
unless  they  are  fastened;'^  nor  with  a  hood  in  public  ground, 
nor  with  gold  ornaments,  nor  with  nose-rings,  nor  with  finger- 
rings  that  have  no  seal,  nor  with  pins.  But  if  she  did  go  out 
with  these  things,  she  is  not  bound  to  bring  a  sin-offering  (as 
they  are  ornaments  and  not  burdens). 

GEMARA:  "  Bathifig."  Where  is  bathing  referred  to  (and 
what  has  it  to  do  with  the  Sabbath)  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  b. 
Itz'hak  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu :  The  Mishna  means  to 
say :  What  is  the  reason  that  a  woman  is  not  allowed  to  go  out 
with  either  woollen  or  linen  bands  ?  Because  the  sages  have 
decided  that  she  is  not  to  bathe  herself  with  them  on,  even  on 
week  days,  unless  loosened ;  therefore  she  shall  not  (go  out  with 
them  on)  on  the  Sabbath  at  all,  lest  it  happen  that  she  become 
in  duty  bound  to  bathe  herself,t  and,  while  untying  her  hair, 
be  forced  to  carry  the  bands  in  public  ground  for  a  distance  of 
four  ells  or  more. 

*  In  the  Mishna  the  Hebrew  word  for  "fastened"  is  "  Tephurim,"  literally 
meaning  "  sewed  "  or  "embroidered  "  ;  i.e.,  the  Totaphoth  and  Sarbitin  as  worn  by 
the  wealthy  were  ornaments  made  of  gold  or  silver  with  inscriptions  engraved  on 
them,  but  the  poor  made  them  of  various  colored  materials  (as  explained  in  the 
Gemara  farther  on)  and  embroidered  the  inscriptions  on  them.  The  prohibition  of  the 
Mishna  therefore  refers  only  to  the  wearing  of  such  ornaments  before  the  inscrip- 
tions were  either  engraved  or  embroidered  on  them.  Such  is  our  explanation  in  our 
"  History  of  Amulets,"  pp.  11-15. 

f  After  menstruation.     Ste  Leviticus,  xv. 


io8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

R.  Kahana  questioned  Rabh:  "What  about  a  hair-net?" 
Answered  Rabh:  "You  mean  to  say  a  woven  one?  Every- 
thing woven  has  not  been  restricted."  This  was  also  taught  in 
the  name  of  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Joshua.  According  to  others  the 
same  said:  "  I  have  seen  that  my  sisters  were  not  particular  to 
take  it  off  while  bathing."  And  the  difference  between  the 
two  versions  is  when  it  was  dirty;  according  to  the  first  version, 
it  does  not  matter,  as  everything  woven  was  not  restricted ;  and 
the  second  version,  where  particularity  is  the  case,  if  they  were 
dirty,  they  would  certainly  be  particular  to  take  them  off. 

An  objection  was  raised  from  Mishna  [Miqvaoth,  IX.  8]: 
"  When  a  person  bathes,  the  following  objects  cause  '  interven- 
tion '  (Chatzitzah):  Woollen  and  linen  bands  and  headstraps 
(used  by  maidens). "  R.  Jehudah  says  woollen  and  hair  bands 
do  not  cause  "  intervention,"  because  water  soaks  through 
them.  (Now  we  see  that  although  woollen  and  linen  bands  are 
woven,  yet  they  are  an  intervention.)  Said  R.  Huna:  "All 
this  concerns  only  maidens."  (And  they  are  an  intervention 
only  because  they  are  particular  about  it.) 

R.  Joseph  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah  said  that  Samuel  said 
that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah  in  the  case 
of  hair  bands  only.  Said  Abayi:  From  the  expression  "  the 
Halakha  prevails"  we  must  infer  that  there  is  a  controversy 
between  R.  Jehudah  and  the  Tana  of  the  above  Boraitha.  (The 
Tana  said  nothing  about  hair  bands.)  Shall  we  assume  that 
because  R.  Jehudah  declares  hair  bands  not  to  be  objects  of 
"  intervention,"  he  must  have  heard  the  previous  Tana  men- 
tion them  ?  Even  if  such  be  the  case,  it  is  not  probable  that 
R.  Jehudah  heard  that  the  Tana  agrees  with  him  on  that  point, 
and  hence  he  says:  "  If  he  agrees  with  me  on  this  point,  why 
not  in  the  other  instances  also?"  Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the 
name  of  Samuel :  Read,  The  sages  agree  with  R.  Jehudah  with 
respect  to  hair  bands. 

This  is  supported  by  a  Boraitha.  Woollen  bands  cause  inter- 
vention, but  hair  bands  do  not.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said: 
"  Neither  of  them  causes  intervention." 

Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  It  seems  to  be  so  from  the 
expression  of  our  Mishna:  "A  woman  may  go  out  with  hair 
bands,  be  they  her  own  or  her  friends'."  Whose  opinion  does 
this  Mishna  represent  ?  Can  we  say  R.  Jehudah's  ?  He  per- 
mits even  woollen  bands.  We  must  say  it  is  in  accordance  with 
the  above  rabbis ;  hence  they  do  not  differ  as  regards  hair  bands. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  109 

*'  Nor  with  Totaphotk."  What  are  "  Totaphoth  "  ?  Said 
R.  Joseph:  "  A  balm  bandage  for  sanitary  use  {Humrate  diqe- 
tipJitd). ' '  * 

Said  Abayi  to  him:  "  Then  let  it  be  permitted  as  an  amulet 
made  by  a  reliable  expert."  (During  Abayi's  time  this  diffi- 
culty was  not  solved.)  R.  Jehudah,  however,  in  the  name  of 
Abayi  said  :  f  "  It  is  an  Absayim  "  (a  gold  ornament).  This  is 
supported  in  the  following  Boraitha :  "  A  woman  may  go  out 
with  a  gilded  hair-net,  and  Totaphoth  or  Sarbitin  when  fastened 
to  the  hair-net."  What  are  Totaphoth  and  what  Sarbitin  ? 
Said  R.  Abuhu :  "  The  former  are  bands  that  reach  from  ear  to 
ear,  and  the  latter  bands  that  reach  from  temple  to  temple." 
R.  Hunasaid:  "The  poor  make  them  of  all  kinds  of  colored 
material,  and  the  rich  make  them  of  gold  or  silver." 

"  Nor  zvith  a  hood.''  Said  R.  Yanai :  "  I  cannot  understand 
what  kind  of  a  hood  the  Mishna  means;  is  it  a  slave's  hood  that 
it  prohibits  and  permits  a  woollen  hood,  or  does  it  prohibit 
woollen  hoods  and  so  much  more  slaves'  hoods  ?  Said  R. 
Abuhu  :  It  seems  that  a  woollen  hood  is  meant.  And  so  we 
have  learned  plainly  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  A  woman  may 
go  out  with  a  hood  and.head  ornament  in  her  yard."  R.  Simeon 
b.  Elazar  says:  With  a  hood  even  in  a  public  ground.  "  It  is 
a  rule,"  said  he,  "  that  anything  below  the  '  Shebha'ha  '  (hair- 
net) is  permitted  to  be  worn,  but  anything  above  it  is  not. 
Samuel,  however,  said  the  Mishna  alludes  to  the  slave's  hood. 

Did,  indeed,  Samuel  say  so  ?  Did  he  not  say  the  slave  may 
go  out  with  the  mark  (he  wears)  around  his  neck,  but  not  with 
the  mark  on  his  clothes  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty.  The 
former  applies  to  the  mark  made  for  him  by  his  master  (in  which 
case  there  is  no  fear  of  the  slave  removing  and  carrying  it),  while 
the  latter  applies  to  the  mark  made  by  himself.  What  meaning 
do  you  attach  to  Samuel's  statement  ?  If  he  permits  the  wear- 
ing of  the  mark  on  the  slave's  neck  because  the  master  made  it 
and  the  slave  will  fear  to  remove  it,  could  not  the  master  also 
make  the  mark  on  the  slave's  clothes  ?  Yea,  but  the  slave 
might  lose  the  mark,  and  for  fear  of  his  master  he  will  fold  up 
his  coat  and  carry  it  on  his  shoulders  (in  public  ground).  And 
according  to  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Joseph  it  is  prohibited.     This  is  also 

*  For  the  explanation  of  Ilumrate  diqetiphta  see  our  "  History  of  Amulets," 
p.  14. 

f  This  R.  Jehudah  is  probaby  R.  Jehudah  of  Diphta,  for  the  R.  Jehudah  gener- 
ally  cited  died  on  the  day  of  Abaj^i's  biith.     See  our  "  History  of  Amulets,"  etc. 


no  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

supported  by  a  Boraitha,  which  teaches  us  distinctly  that  the 
slave  may  go  out  with  the  mark  on  his  neck,  but  not  on  his 
clothes.  In  like  manner  Samuel  once  said  to  R.  Hanina  b. 
Shila:  "  None  of  the  rabbis  that  call  on  the  Exilarch  should 
go  out  with  their  insignia  on  their  clothes  (on  the  Sabath)  save 
you.  He  would  not  be  angry  with  you  were  you  to  go  to  him 
without  them  (hence,  not  being  a  necessary  burden,  you  may 
wear  them  or  not,  as  you  choose)." 

The  master  said:  "  Not  with  a  bell,"  etc.  Why  not  ?  Lest 
it  break  off  and  one  may  carry  it.  Then  why  should  the  same 
not  be  feared  in  regard  to  a  bell  attached  to  his  clothes  ?  Here 
a  bell  is  treated  of  that  was  made  by  an  expert  and  was  woven 
right  in  with  the  cloth.  This  is  also  in  accord  with  what  R, 
Huna  b.  R.  Joshua  said:  "  Everything  that  is  woven  they  did 
not  restrict." 

"  Nor  with  a  golden  ornament.''  What  was  this  golden  orna- 
ment ?  Said  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan: 
"  A  golden  (ornament  with  an  engraving  of  the  city  of)  Jeru- 
salem on  it,"  such  as  R.  Aqiba  made  for  his  wife. 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  woman  shall  not  go  out  wearing  a 
golden  ornament ;  but  if  she  did  so,  she  becomes  liable  to  bring 
a  sin-offering.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir,  but  the  sages  say: 
She  must  not  go  out  wearing  it ;  if  she  did,  however,  she  is  not 
culpable.  But  R.  Eliezer  said:  A  woman  may  go  out  wearing  a 
golden  ornament  to  commence  with.  Wherein  do  they  differ  ? 
R.  Meir  holds  it  to  be  a  burden,  and  the  rabbis  hold  it  to  be  an 
ornament ;  then  why  should  she  not  wear  it  to  commence  with  ? 
Lest  she  take  it  off  to  show  it  to  her  friends  and  thus  happen  to 
carry  it ;  but  R.  Eliezer  reasons  differently.  Who  generally  go 
out  with  such  valuable  golden  ornaments  ?  Prominent  women ; 
and  prominent  women  will  not  remove  them  for  the  purpose  of 
exhibiting  them  to  friends. 

Rabh  prohibits  the  wearing  of  a  crown-shaped  ornament,  and 
Samuel  permits  it.  Both  agree  that  the  wearing  of  a  crown- 
shaped  ornament  is  permissible,  :as  there  is  no  fear  that  the 
woman  will  remove  it ;  where  they  do  differ,  however,  is  as  to 
a  golden  and  jewelled  ornament.  The  former  holds  that  there 
is  fear  of  her  removing  it  in  order  to  exhibit  it,  and  thus  prob- 
ably happen  to  carry  it,  while  the  latter  contends  that  as  only 
prominent  women  wear  such  costly  ornaments  no  fear  need  be 
entertained  on  that  score. 

Said  R.  Samuel  b.  b.  Hana  to   R.   Joseph :    You  distinctly 


TRACT   SABBATH.  iii 

told  us  in  the  name  of  Rabh  that  an  ornament  in  the  shape  of 
a  crown  may  be  worn,^ 

Levi  t  lectured  in  Neherdai  that  a  crown-shaped  ornament 
may  be  worn ;  whereupon  twenty-four  women  in  Neherdai  went 
out  with  crown-shaped  ornaments  on. 

Rabba  b.  Abuhu  lectured  the  same  in  Mehutza,  and  eighteen 
women  went  out  of  one  alley  wearing  those  ornaments. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  "  A  belt  may  be 
worn."  Some  one  said  a  leather  belt  (even  if  jewelled).  Said 
R.  Saphra:  "  Why!  Even  a  golden  belt  jewelled,  for  is  it  not 
equal  to  a  golden  garment  ?  "  Said  Rabhina  to  R.  Ashi :  "  How 
is  it  with  a  belt  worn  over  a  sash  ?  "  Answered  R.  Ashi :  "  By 
this  you  mean  two  belts"  (and  this  is  prohibited).  R.  Ashi, 
however,  said:  "  A  sash  may  be  worn  only  when  it  is  securely 
fastened,  but  not  otherwise." 

"  Nor  with  a  nose-ring."  What  is  a  nose-ring  ?  It  is  a  nose- 
band. 

"  Nor  with  finger-rings,"  etc. ;  but  if  the  ring  have  a  seal  it 
is  prohibited,  as  it  is  not  an  ornament.  Is  this  not  contradicted 
from  Kelim,  XI.  8  ?  The  following  ornaments  of  women  are 
subject  to  defilement:  Chains,  nose-rings,  rings,  finger-rings 
either  with  or  without  a  seal,  and  nose-bands.  Said  R.  Na'hman 
b.  Itz'hak:  "You  quote  a  contradiction  in  the  laws  of  defile- 
ment as  against  the  laws  of  Sabbath.  As  for  defilement,  the 
Torah  requires  an  utensil  [Numbers,  xxxi.  20],  and  such  it 
is;  but  as  for  Sabbath,  it  refers  to  a  burden;  hence  a  ring 
without  a  seal  is  an  ornament,  with  a  seal  it  is  a  burden  (for 
women)." 

"  Nor  with  a  pin."  For  what  purpose  can  a  pin  be  used  ? 
R.  Ada  from  Narsha  explained  it  before  R.  Joseph:  Women 
part  their  hair  with  it.  Of  what  use  is  it  on  Sabbath  ?  Said 
Rabha:  On  week  days  they  wear  a  golden  plate  on  their  heads; 
the  pin  is  used  for  parting  the  hair  and  holding  down  the  plate; 
but  on  Sabbath  the  pin  is  put  against  the  forehead. 

MISHNA  //. :  One  is  not  to  go  out  with  iron-riveted  sandals, 
nor  with  one  (iron-riveted  shoe)  unless  he  has  a  sore  on  his  foot, 
nor  with  phylacteries,  nor  yet  with  an  amulet  unless  made  by 
a  reliable  expert,  nor  with  a  shield,  helmet,  or  armor  for  the 

*  R.  Joseph  passed  through  a  severe  illness  and  at  times  forgot  his  own  teachings; 
hence  it  sometimes  occurred  that  he  was  reminded  of  them  by  his  disciples. 

f  Here  is  omitted  the  legend  about  Levi,  as  the  proper  place  for  it  is  in  Kethuboth, 
1033,  and  it  will  be  translated  there. 


112  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

legs;  but  if  he  has  gone  out  (with  either  of  these)  he  is  not 
liable  for  a  sin-offering. 

GEMARA:  "  Iron-riveted  sandal.''  What  is  the  reason  of 
its  being  prohibited  ?  Said  Samuel:  "  It  happened  toward  the 
close  of  the  persecutions  (of  the  Jews)  that  a  party  of  men  hid 
themselves  in  a  cave  with  the  understanding  that  after  once 
entering  no  one  was  to  go  out.  Suddenly  they  heard  a  voice 
on  the  outside  of  the  cave,  and  thinking  the  enemies  were  upon 
them,  they  began  crowding  each  other  into  the  farthest  recesses 
of  the  cave.  During  the  panic  that  ensued  more  men  were 
trampled  to  death  by  the  iron-riveted  sandals  worn  by  the  party 
than  the  enemies  would  have  killed.  At  that  time  it  was 
enacted  that  a  man  must  not  go  out  (on  Sabbath)  with  iron- 
riveted  sandals."  If  this  be  the  reason,  let  it  also  be  prohibited 
on  week  days  ?  Because  it  occurred  on  a  Sabbath !  Then  let  it 
be  allowed  on  a  festival ;  why  then  is  it  stated  that  on  a  festival 
it  must  not  be  sent  (Betzah,  26,  Mishna)  ?  And  furthermore, 
why  is  it  forbidden  on  Sabbath  ?  Because  the  people  usually 
assemble  on  that  day ;  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  festival. 
But  do  they  not  assemble  on  a  congregational  fast — why  then 
should  it  not  be  prohibited  also  then  ?  When  the  above-men- 
tioned happened  it  was  a  prohibited  assembly,  but  all  these 
assemblies  are  permitted.  And  even  according  to  R.  Hanina 
b.  Aqiba,  who  said  concerning  defilement  that  this  prohibition  is 
only  in  the  Jordan  in  a  boat,  as  the  case  happened,  it  is 
because  the  Jordan  is  different  in  width  and  depth  from  other 
rivers;  but  Sabbath  and  a  festival  are  alike  as  regards  labor. 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  This  (the  pro- 
hibition of  the  sandals  in  question)  is  only  with  regard  to  such 
as  are  riveted  for  the  sake  of  durability,  but  not  with  regard  to 
such  as  are  riveted  for  the  sake  of  decoration.  How  many 
(rivets  are  considered  to  be  for  the  latter  purpose)  ?  R.  Johanan 
said  five  in  each.  R.  Hanina  said  seven  in  each.  Said  R. 
Johanan  to  R.  Samon  b.  Aba:  "  I  will  explain  to  you  the  differ- 
ence between  my  opinion  and  that  of  R.  Hanina.  I  mean  two 
rivets  on  each  side  of  the  sandal  and  one  in  the  centre,  while  he 
means  three  on  each  side  and  one  in  the  centre.  The  Gemara 
declared  that  R.  Hanina  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Nathan,  who 
permits  seven;  and  R.  Johanan  is  in  accordance  with  R.  No- 
horai,  who  permits  only  five.  And  Alpha  said  to  Rabba  b.  b. 
Hana:  "  Ye  who  are  the  disciples  of  R.  Johanan  may  act  accord- 
ing to  him ;    we,  however,   are  acting   in    accordance  with   R. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  113 

Hanina. "  R.  Huna  questioned  R.  Ashi :  "  How  is  the  law  if 
there  were  five  ?"  And  he  said:  "  Even  seven  is  permitted." 
"  And  how  is  it  if  there  were  nine  ?  "  And  he  rejoined:  "  Even 
eight  is  prohibited.  A  certain  shoemaker  asked  of  R.  Ami: 
"  How  is  it  if  the  sandal  is  sewed  from  the  inside  ?"  He  an- 
swered: "  I  have  heard  that  it  is  permitted,  but  I  can  give  you 
no  reason."  Said  R.  Ashi:  "Does  master  not  know  the 
reason  ?  Being  sewed  from  the  inside,  it  is  no  longer  a  sandal 
but  a  shoe;  and  the  rabbis*  precaution  was  against  the  riveted 
sandal,  but  not  in  regard  to  shoes." 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  One  must  not  go  out  with  an  iron- 
riveted  sandal  and  shall  not  walk  in  them  from  one  room  to 
another,  not  even  from  one  bed  to  another  (in  the  same  room); 
but  it  may  be  handled  to  cover  vessels  with  or  to  support  one 
of  the  bed-stands  with.  R.  Elazar  b.  Simeon  prohibits  even 
this,  unless  the  majority  of  rivets  fell  out  and  but  four  or  five 
remain.  Rabbi  limits  the  permission  to  seven  (rivets).  If  the 
soles  are  made  of  leather  and  the  uppers  are  riveted,  it  is  per- 
mitted. If  the  rivets  are  made  like  hooks,  or  are  flat-headed, 
or  pointed,  or  pierce  through  the  sandal  to  protect  the  sole,  it 
is  permitted. 

R.  Massna,  others  say  R.  Ahadboy  b.  Massna  in  the  name 
of  R.  Massna,  said:  "  The  Halakha  does  not  prevail  in  accord- 
ance with  Elazar  b.  Simeon."  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  When 
one  individual  opinion  conflicts  with  a  majority,  the  opinion  of 
the  majority  prevails.  Lest  one  suppose  that,  because  R.  Elazar 
b.  Simeon  gave  a  reason  for  his  statement,  should  it  be  ac- 
cepted, he  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is  not  so. 

Said  R.  Hyya:  "  Were  I  not  called  a  Babylonian,  who  per- 
mits what  is  prohibited,  I  would  permit  considerably  more. 
How  many?  In  Pumbeditha  they  say  twenty-four,  and  in  Sura 
they  say  twenty-two."  Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  "  It  seems 
by  your  remark  that  on  the  road  from  Pumbeditha  to  Sura  you 
lost  two." 

"  Nor  with  one,''  etc.  But  if  his  foot  is  sore  he  may  go  out. 
On  which  foot  may  he  wear  the  shoe  ?  On  the  foot  that  is  sore 
(for  protection). 

The  rabbis  taught :  When  one  puts  on  his  shoes  he  should 
commence  with  the  right  shoe ;  when  he  takes  them  off  he 
should  commence  with  the  left.  When  one  bathes  he  should 
wash  the  right  side  first;  when  he  anoints  himself  he  should 
anoint  the  right  side  first,  and  whoever  anoints  the  whole  body 
VOL.  I. — 8 


114  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

should  commence  with  the  head,  for  the  head  is  the  king  of  all 
the  members  (of  the  body). 

"  Nor  with  phylacteries  ;  "  but  if  he  went  out  with  them  on, 
he  is  not  liable  for  a  sin-offering.  Said  R.  Saphra:  This  is  not 
only  in  accordance  with  him  who  holds  Sabbath  is  a  day  for 
(wearing)  phylacteries,  but  it  is  even  in  accordance  with  him 
who  holds  that  it  is  not.  What  is  the  reason  ?  Because  phylac- 
teries are  put  on  in  the  same  manner  as  a  garment. 

"  And  not  with  an  amulet,'"  etc.  Said  R.  Papa:  "  Do  not 
presume  that  both  the  maker  and  the  amulet  must  be  reliable; 
it  is  sufificient  if  the  maker  only  is  reliable."  So  it  seems  to  be 
from  the  statement  in  the  Mishna:  "  And  not  with  an  amulet 
that  was  not  made  by  a  reliable  expert,"  It  does  not  say  with 
a  reliable  amulet. 

The  rabbis  taught:  Which  are  to  be  considered  such?  If 
they  have  cured  three  times,  no  matter  whether  they  contained 
inscriptions  (of  mystic  forms)  or  (certain)  medicaments.  If  the 
amulet  is  for  a  sickness,  be  it  serious  or  not,  or  if  it  is  for  one 
afflicted  with  epilepsy,  or  only  serves  as  a  preventive,  one 
may  fasten  or  unfasten  it  even  in  public  ground,  provided  he 
does  not  fasten  the  amulet  to  a  bracelet  or  a  finger-ring,  to  go 
out  with  it  in  public  ground,  lest  those  who  see  it  think  that  it 
is  being  worn  as  an  ornament.  Did  not  a  Boraitha  state  that 
only  such  amulets  as  cured  three  different  parties  are  reliable  ? 
This  presents  no  difficulty.  Here  we  are  taught  as  to  the  reli- 
ability of  the  expert  who  made  the  amulet,  while  in  the  latter 
Boraitha  we  are  taught  as  to  the  reliability  of  the  amulet  itself. 

Said  R.  Papa:  It  is  certain  to  me  that  where  three  different 
amulets  were  given  to  three  different  (human)  sufferers  at  three 
different  times  (and  a  cure  was  effected),  both  the  amulets  and 
the  expert  who  made  them  are  reliable.  Where  three  different 
amulets  were  given  to  three  different  sufferers  only  once,  the 
expert  is  reliable,  but  not  the  amulets.  Where  one  and  the 
same  amulet  was  given  to  three  different  sufferers,  the  amulet 
is  reliable,  but  not  the  expert;  but  how  is  it  with  three  different 
amulets  given  to  one  man  for  three  different  diseases  ?  Cer- 
tainly, the  amulets  are  not  reliable  (for  each  cured  only  once), 
but  how  is  it  with  the  expert  ?  Should  he  be  considered  reli- 
able or  not  ?  If  we  say  that  the  expert  cured  him,  perhaps  it 
was  only  the  fate  of  the  sufferer  that  he  should  be  cured  by 
a  script  ?    This  question  remains. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  Is  there  any  sane- 


TRACT   SABBATH.  115 

tity  in  an  amulet  or  not  ?  For  what  purpose  are  we  to  know 
this  ?  In  order  to  enter  a  privy;  if  there  is  any  sanctity  in  the 
amulet  this  would  not  be  allowed,  otherwise  it  would. 

Come  and  hear.  We  have  learned  in  a  Mishna:  "  Not  with 
an  amulet  unless  made  by  a  reliable  expert."  From  this  we 
see  that  if  made  by  a  reliable  expert  one  may  go  out  with  it. 
Now,  if  we  say  that  there  is  sanctity  in  the  amulet,  how  can  we 
say  that  one  may  go  out  with  it  ?  Perhaps  he  shall  be  com- 
pelled to  enter  a  privy,  he  will  have  to  take  it  off,  and  thus  be 
forced  to  carry  it  four  ells  or  more  in  public  ground. 

MISHNA///,:  A  woman  shall  not  go  out  with  an  orna- 
mental needle  (with  a  hole  in),  nor  with  a  ring  that  has  a  seal, 
nor  with  a  Kulear,  nor  with  a  Kabeleth,  nor  with  a  perfume 
bottle.  And  if  she  does,  she  is  liable  for  a  sin-offering.  Such 
is  the  opinion  of  R.  Meir.  The  sages,  however,  freed  her  in 
the  case  of  the  two  latter. 

GEMARA :  Said  Ulla:  "  With  men  it  is  (concerning  a  finger- 
ring)  just  the  reverse."  That  is  to  say,  Ulla  is  of  the  opinion 
that  what  is  right  for  women  is  not  right  for  men,  and  what  is 
right  for  men  is  not  right  for  women.  Said  R.  Joseph:  "  Ulla  is 
of  the  opinion  that  women  form  a  class  of  their  own."  Rabha, 
however,  says  it  often  happens  that  a  man  gives  his  wife  a  ring 
with  a  seal  on,  to  put  away  in  a  box,  and  she  puts  it  on  her 
finger  until  she  comes  to  the  box ;  again,  it  happens  that  a  wife 
gives  her  husband  a  ring  without  a  seal  for  the  purpose  of  hav- 
ing him  give  it  to  a  jeweller  to  repair,  and  until  he  comes  to  the 
jeweller  he  puts  it  on  his  finger.  Thus  it  happens  that  a  woman 
may  wear  a  man's  ring  and  a  man  a  woman's  (temporarily). 

What  is  Kabeleth  ?  Cachous  (for  purifying  the  breath). 
The  rabbis  taught :  A  woman  must  not  go  out  with  Kabeleth, 
and  if  she  did  so  she  is  liable  for  a  sin-offering.  This  is  the 
opinion  of  R.  Meir,  but  the  sages  say  she  should  not  go  out 
with  it,  yet  if  she  does  she  is  not  liable.  R.  EHezer,  however, 
says  she  may  go  out  with  it  to  commence  with.  Wherein  do 
they  differ  ?  R.  Meir  holds  that  it  is  a  burden,  the  sages  that 
it  is  an  ornament ;  and  the  reason  that  she  should  not  go  out 
with  it  is  lest  she  take  it  off  to  show  to  her  friends,  and  thus  per- 
chance carry  it  in  her  hand.  R.  Eliezer,  however,  permits  it  to  be 
carried  to  commence  with,  because,  said  he,  who  generally  carry 
such  ?  Women  whose  breath  emits  a  bad  odor,  and  surely  they 
will  not  take  them  off  to  show  them,  hence  there  is  no  apprehen- 
sion that  they  will  carry  them  four  ells  or  more  on  public  ground. 


ii6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  "  A  woman  must  not  go  out  with  a  key 
in  her  hand,  nor  with  a  box  of  cachous,  nor  with  a  perfume 
bottle;  and  if  she  goes  out  with  them,  she  is  liable  for  a  sin- 
offering."  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir,  but  R.  Eliezer  freed 
her,  provided  the  box  contains  cachous,  and  the  bottle  perfume ; 
but  if  they  are  empty,  she  is  liable  (for  then  there  is  a  burden). 
Said  R.  Ada  b.  Ahaba:  "  From  this  we  may  infer  that  one 
carrying  less  than  the  prescribed  quantity  of  food  in  a  vessel  on 
public  ground  is  culpable,  as  it  states  if  there  was  no  cachou  or 
perfume,  which  is  equal  to  a  vessel  containing  less  than  the  pre- 
scribed amount  of  food,  she  is  liable.  Hence  it  makes  her  liable 
even  if  less  than  the  prescribed  quantity.  Said  R.  Ashi :  Gen- 
erally one  may  be  freed,  but  here  it  is  different ;  the  box  and 
the  bottle  themselves  are  considered  a  burden. 

We  read  in  the  Scripture  [Amos,  vi.  6] :  "  And  anoint  them- 
selves with  the  costliest  of  ointments."  Said  R.  Jehudah  in 
the  name  of  Samuel:  "  This  signifies  perfumery." 

R.  Joseph  objected:  "  R.  Jehudah  b.  Baba  said  that  after 
the  destruction  of  the  Temple  at  Jerusalem  the  sages  prohibited 
even  the  use  of  perfumes,  but  the  rabbis  did  not  concur  in  the 
decree.  If  we  say  perfume  used  only  for  pleasure,  why  did  not 
the  rabbis  concur  ? ' '  Abayi  answered  :  According  to  your  mode 
of  reasoning,  even  drinking  wine  from  bowls  (bocals)  is  prohib- 
ited, for  it  is  written  further  [ibid.,  ibid.]:  "Those  that  drink 
wine  from  bowls."  R.  Ami  said,  that  certainly  means  bocals, 
but  R.  Assi  claimed  that  it  means  they  clinked  glasses  one  with 
another.  Still  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  once  happened  to  be  at  the 
house  of  the  Exilarch  and  drank  wine  out  of  a  bocal,  but  was 
not  rebuked.  It  is,  therefore,  thus  to  be  understood:  The 
rabbis  restricted  only  such  pleasures  as  were  combined  with 
rejoicing,  but  not  pleasures  unaccompanied  with  rejoicing. 

Said  R.  Abuhu :  Others  say  we  were  taught  in  a  Boraitha: 
"  Three  things  bring  man  to  poverty:  Urinating  in  front  of 
one's  bed  when  naked;  carelessness  in  washing  one's  hands; 
and  permitting  one's  wife  to  curse  him  in  his  presence."  Said 
Rabha:  "  Urinating  in  front  of  one's  bed  should  be  understood 
to  signify '  turning  around  so  as  to  face  the  bed  and  then  urinat- 
ing,' but  not  turning  in  the  opposite  direction;  and  even  when 
facing  the  bed  it  signifies  only  '  urinating  on  'Co.q  floor  in  front  of 
the  bed  and  not  in  a  urinal.'  "  Carelessness  in  washing  one's 
hand  signifies  "  not  washing  one's  hands  at  all,"  but  not  insuflfi- 
cient  washing,  for  R.   Hisda  said:  "  I  washed  my  hands  well 


TRACT    SABBATH.  117 

and  plentifully  and  am  plentifully  rewarded."  Permitting  ones 
wife  to  curse  him  in  his  presence  implies  "  for  not  bringing  her 
jewelry,"  and  then  only  when  one  is  able  to  do  so  but  does  not. 

Rahava  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah :  The  trees  of  Jeru- 
salem were  cinnamon  trees,  and  when  used  for  fuel  the  odor 
extended  over  all  the  land  of  Israel;  ever  since  the  destruction 
of  the  second  Temple  the  cinnamon  trees  disappeared;  but  a 
morsel  as  big  as  a  barleycorn  is  still  to  be  found  in  the  treasury 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Zimzimai. 

MISHNA  IV.  :  One  must  not  go  out  with  a  sword,  nor  with 
a  bow,  nor  with  a  triangular  shield,  nor  with  a  round  one,  nor 
with  a  spear;  if  he  does  so  he  is  liable  for  a  sin-offering.  R. 
Eliezer  says  they  are  ornaments  to  him,  but  the  sages  say  they 
are  nothing  but  a  stigma,  for  it  is  written  [Isaiah,  ii.  4] :  "  They 
shall  beat  their  swords  into  p\<M,  aghshares  and  their  spears  into 
pruning-knives;  nation  shall  not  lift  up  sword  against  nation, 
neither  shall  they  learn  war  any  more."  Knee-buckles  are 
clean  and  one  may  go  out  with  them  on  the  Sabbath.  Stride 
chains  are  subject  to  defilement,  and  one  must  not  go  out  with 
them  on  the  Sabbath. 

GEMARA:  "  R.  Eliezer  says  they  are  ornaments.''  There 
is  a  Boraitha:  The  sages  said  unto  R.  Eliezer:  If  the  weapons 
are  ornaments  to  man,  why  will  they  cease  to  exist  in  the  post- 
messianic  period  ?  He  answered:  "  They  will  exist  then  also." 
This  is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  Samuel,  who  said 
there  will  be  no  difference  between  the  present  time  and  the 
post-messianic  period  save  the  obedience  to  temporal  poten- 
tates, for  it  is  written  [Deut.  xv.  11]:  "  For  the  needy  will  not 
cease  out  of  the  land." 

Said  Abayi,  according  to  others  R.  Joseph,  to  R.  Dimi  or  to 
R.  Ivia,  and  according  to  still  others,  Abayi  said  directly  to  R. 
Joseph:  What  is  the  reason  of  R.  Eliezer's  theory  regarding 
weapons?  It  is  written  [Psalms,  xlv.  4]:  "Gird  thy  sword 
upon  thy  thighs,  O  Most  Mighty,  with  thy  glory  and  thy 
majesty." 

Said  R.  Kahana  to  Mar,  the  son  of  R.  Huna:  Is  not  this 
passage  applied  to  the  study  of  the  Law  (Torah)  ?  And  he 
answered:  "Anything  maybe  inferred  from  a  passage;  at  the 
same  time,  the  passage  must  not  be  deprived  of  its  common 
sense."  Said  R.  Kahana:  "  I  am  fourscore  years  old  and  have 
studied  the  six  sections  of  the  Mishna  with  their  explanations 
through,  and  did  not  know  until  now  that  a  scriptural  passage 


ii8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

has  first  to  be  interpreted  in  its  plainest  form!"  What  infor- 
mation does  he  mean  to  convey  to  us  by  this  assertion  ?  That 
man  has  to  study  the  Law  through  first,  and  then  reason 
upon  it. 

R.  Jeremiah  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar  said:  Two  scholars 
who  debate  in  the  Law  (not  for  controversy's  sake),  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  causes  them  to  prosper;  moreover,  they 
become  exalted,  for  it  is  written  [Psalms,  xlv.  5],  "  be  prosper- 
ous." But  lest  one  say  that  this  would  be  the  case  even  if  they 
(debate),  not  for  the  purpose  (of  studying  the  Law),  therefore  it 
says  further  [ibid.,  ibid.],  "  because  of  truth."  Again,  one 
might  say  that  the  same  would  be  the  case  even  if  one  became 
arrogant  and  conceited.  Therefore  it  says  further  [ibid.,  ibid.], 
"  and  meekness  and  righteousness."  And  if  they  act  humbly 
they  will  be  rewarded  with  (thC*^ /knowledge  of)  the  Law,  which 
was  given  with  the  right  hand  (of  God),  as  it  is  further  written 
[ibid.],  "  and  thy  right  hand  shall  teach  thee  fearful  things." 

R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  says  they  will  be  rewarded  with  the 
knowledge  of  what  is  said  of  the  right  hand  of  the  Law,  for 
Rabha  b.  R.  Shila,  according  to  others  R.  Joseph  b.  Hama  in 
the  name  of  R.  Shesheth,  said :  How  is  to  be  explained  the 
passage  [Proverbs,  iii.  16]:  "  Length  of  days  is  in  her  right 
hand;  and  in  her  left  riches  and  honor"  ?  Shall  one  say  that 
in  the  right  hand  is  only  length  of  days,  but  not  riches  and 
honor  ?  Common  sense  does  not  dictate  so ;  therefore  it  must 
be  interpreted  thus :  For  those  who  study  the  Torah  in  the  right 
way  there  is  long  life,  and  so  much  the  more  riches  and  honor; 
but  for  those  who  study  it  not  in  the  right  way,  riches  and  honor 
there  may  be,  but  not  long  life. 

Said  R.  Jeremiah  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish:  Two 
scholars  who  quietly  discourse  on  the  Torah  among  themselves, 
the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  hearkens  unto  them  and  listens 
to  their  desires,  for  it  is  written  [Malachi,  iii.  16]  :  "  Then  con- 
versed they  that  fear  the  Lord  one  with  the  other,"  etc.  Con- 
versed means  conversed  quietly,  as  it  is  written  [in  Psalms, 
xlvii.  4]:  "  He  will  subdue  (quiet)  people  under  us."  (Subdue 
and  converse  are  expressed  by  the  same  terms  in  the  two  pas- 
sages, hence  the  similitude.*)  What  is  meant  by  the  words 
"  that  thought  upon  His  name  "  ?     Said  R.  Ami:  "  Even  when 

*  The  words  conversed  and  subdue  in  the  two  passages  are  expressed  in  Hebrew 
by  "  Nidberu"  and  "  Yadber."  Both  are  derived  from  the  root  Dibur  =  to  speak 
quietly. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  119 

one  intended  to  observe  a  commandment,  but  was  accidentally 
prevented  and  could  not  accomplish  it,  it  is  credited  to  him  as 
if  he  had  actually  observed  it."  Thus  the  passage  "  thought 
upon  His  name  "  is  interpreted. 

Said  R.  Hanina  b.  Ide :  Whosoever  observes  a  command- 
ment as  prescribed,  will  not  be  the  recipient  of  bad  tidings,  for 
it  is  written  [Eccl.  viii.  5] :  "  Whoso  keepeth  the  commandment 
will  experience  no  evil  thing."  R.  Assi,  others  say  R.  Hanina, 
said:  "  Even  if  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  has  so  decreed  it 
(that  he  shall  experience  evil  things)  the  decree  is  annulled 
through  the  prayers  of  this  man,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.  4] :  "  Be- 
cause the  word  of  a  king  is  powerful,  and  who  may  say  unto 
him,  what  doest  thou  ? '  and  this  immediately  followed  by  the 
passage :  *  Whoso  keepeth  the  commandment  will  experience  no 
evil  thing.'  " 

R.  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish  said :  Two 
scholars  who  mutually  instruct  themselves  in  the  Law,  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  hearkens  to  their  voices,  for  it  is  written 
[Song  of  Solomon,  viii.  13]:  "  Thou  that  dwellest  in  the  gar- 
dens, the  companions  listen  for  thy  voice;  oh,  let  me  hear  it  "  ; 
but  if  they  do  not  do  so,  they  cause  the  Shekhina  to  move  away 
from  Israel,  for  further  it  is  written  [ibid.  14]:  "  Flee  away,  my 
beloved,"  etc. 

The  same  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority  said:  The 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  loves  two  scholars  who  combine  to 
study  the  Law,  for  it  is  written  [Solomon's  Song,  ii.  4]:  "  And 
his  banner  over  me  was  love."  Said  Rabha:  Provided  they 
know  something  of  Law,  but  have  no  instructor  to  teach  them 
at  the  place  where  they  reside." 

The  same  said  again:  "  The  man  who  lends  his  money  is 
more  deserving  than  the  charitable  man,  and  the  most  deserving 
of  all  is  he  who  gives  charity  surreptitiously  or  invests  money  in 
partnership  (with  the  poor)."  Furthermore  he  said:  "If  thy 
teacher  is  jealous  (for  thy  welfare)  and  as  spiteful  as  a  serpent 
(if  thou  neglect  thy  studies),  carry  him  on  thy  shoulders  (because 
from  him  thou  wilt  learn),  and  if  an  ignoramus  plays  the  pious, 
do  not  live  in  his  neighborhood." 

R.  Kahana,  according  to  others  R.  Assi,  and  according  to 
still  others  R.  Abba  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish,  said; 
"  Whoso  raises  a  vicious  dog  in  his  house  prevents  charity  to 
proceed  therefrom  (for  the  poor  are  afraid  to  go  in),  as  it  is  writ- 
ten [Job,  vi.  14]:  "  As  though  I  were  one  who  refuseth  kind- 


I20  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

ness  to  a  friend."  ("  As  though  /were  one  who  refuseth  "  is 
expressed  in  Hebrew  by  one  word,  viz.,  lamos;  in  Greek  Xa^oS 
means  dog,'^  and  hence  R.  Simeon's  inference.)  Said  R.  Na'h- 
man :  "  He  even  forsaketh  the  fear  of  the  Lord,"  for  it  is  writ- 
ten at  the  end  of  the  verse  [ibid.,  ibid.]:  "  And  forsaketh  the 
fear  of  the  Lord." 

Once  a  woman  went  into  a  certain  house  to  bake,  and  a  dog, 
through  barking  at  her,  caused  her  to  have  a  miscarriage.  Said 
the  landlord  of  the  house  "  Fear  him  not,  I  have  deprived  him 
of  his  teeth  and  claws";  but  the  woman  answered:  "Throw 
thy  favors  to  the  dogs,  the  child  is  already  gone!  " 

Said  R.  Huna:  It  is  written  [Eccl.  xi.  9]:  "  Rejoice,  oh 
young  man,  in  thy  childhood,  and  let  thy  heart  cheer  thee  in 
the  days  of  thy  youthful  vigor,  and  walk  firmly  in  the  ways  of 
thy  heart  and  in  the  direction  in  which  thy  eyes  see ;  but  know 
thou  that  concerning  all  these  things  God  will  bring  thee  into 
judgment."  (Does  not  this  passage  contradict  itself?  Nay.) 
Up  to  the  words  "  and  know  "  are  words  of  the  misleader,  and 
from  there  on  are  words  of  the  good  leader.  Resh  Lakish  said 
up  to  "  (and)  know  "  the  theoretical  part  of  the  law  is  meant, 
and  from  there  on  it  speaks  of  good  acts. 

"  Knee-buckles  are  clean,'"  etc.  Said  R.  Jehudah:  This  (birith) 
means  arm-bandages.  To  this  R.  Joseph  objected:  "  We  have 
learned  that  a  birith  is  (virtually)  clean,  and  one  may  go  out 
with  it  on  the  Sabbath.  If  it  is  an  arm-band,  how  can  that  be  ? 
The  latter  is  subject  to  defilement."  It  means  that  the  birith 
is  worn  on  the  same  part  of  the  leg  as  the  arm-bandage  on  the 
arm. 

Rabbin  and  R.  Huna  sat  before  R.  Jeremiah,  who  slum- 
bered, and  Rabbin  said:  "  A  birith  is  worn  on  one  of  the  thighs 
and  kebalim  on  both  shins.  "  But  R.  Huna  said  both  are  worn 
on  both  shins,  but  the  chain  attached  to  the  birith  on  both 
shins  is  called  kebalim,  and  the  chain  makes  them  a  perfect 
vessel.  At  this  point  of  the  argument  R.  Jeremiah  awoke  and 
said:  "I  thank  you.  Even  so  I  heard  R.  Johanan  say." 
When  R.  Dimi  came  to  Neherdai,  he  sent  to  tell  the  sages: 
My  former  information  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  that  the 
Tzitz  was  a  woven  thing  was  an  error,  as  so  was  said  in  his 
name.  Whence  the  adduction  that  any  ornament  is  subject  to 
becoming  defiled  ?     From  the  Tzitz,  the  golden  plate  on  the 

*R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish  was  a  Palestinian  and  knew  the  Greek  language. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  121 

forehead  of  the  High  Priest.  And  whence  the  adduction  that 
textile  fabrics  are  also  subject  to  becoming  defiled  ?  From  the 
passage  [Lev.  xi.  32],  "  or  "  raiment,  which  includes  any  textile 
fabrics  whatsoever. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  Any  piece  of  textile  fabric  or  any  trifle 
of  an  ornament  is  subject  to  defilement."  But  how  is  it  with 
an  article  which  is  half  texture  and  half  ornament  ?  It  is  also 
subject  to  defilement.  As  for  an  ornament  which  is  carried  in 
a  bag,  the  bag  being  of  woven  material  becomes  defiled  and 
with  it  the  ornament,  but  if  the  ornament  was  carried  in  a  piece 
of  cloth,  the  cloth  remains  undefiled.  Is  a  piece  of  cloth  not 
a  textile  fabric  ?  Yea,  but  by  that  is  meant  that  the  bag, 
even  if  not  made  of  textile  fabric,  becomes  defiled,  because  it  is 
attached  to  the  garment.  What  is  a  bag  used  for  ?  Said  R. 
Johanan:  Poor  people  use  them  for  the  purpose  of  putting 
some  trifles  in  them  and  then  hang  them  on  the  necks  of  their 
daughters. 

It  is  written  "  And  Moses  was  wroth  with  the  officers  of 
the  host  "  [Numb.  xxxi.  14].  Said  R.  Na'hmanin  the  name  of 
Rabba  b.  Abuhu:  "  Thus  said  Moses  unto  Israel:  '  Have  ye 
then  returned  to  your  first  sin  (that  ye  have  let  the  females 
live)?*"  They  answered  him  [ibid.  49]:  "  Thy  servants  have 
taken  the  sum  of  the  men  of  war  who  have  been  under  our  com- 
mand, and  there  lacketh  not  one  man  of  us"  (implying  that 
none  had  sinned).  Said  Moses  again:  "  If  such  be  the  case, 
why  need  ye  atonement?"  They  answered:  "Though  we 
have  strengthened  ourselves  to  keep  aloof  from  sin,  we  could 
not  put  it  out  of  our  minds.  We  have  therefore  [ibid.  50] 
brought  an  oblation  unto  the  Lord."  On  this  the  school  of 
R.  Ishmael  taught :  Why  did  the  Israelites  of  that  generation 
require  forgiveness  ?  Because  they  had  feasted  their  eyes  on 
strange  women. 

MISHNA  V. :  A  woman  may  go  out  with  plaits  of  hair,  be 
they  made  of  her  own  hair  or  of  another  woman  or  of  an  ani- 
mal; with  Totaphoth  or  Sarbitin  if  fastened.*  With  a  hood  or 
with  a  wig  in  her  yard  (private  ground) ;  with  cotton  wadding 
in  her  ear  or  in  her  shoe;  or  with  cotton  wadding  prepared  for 
her  menstruation ;  with  a  grain  of  pepper  or  of  salt,  or  with 
whatever  else  she  may  be  accustomed  to  keep  in  her  mouth, 
provided  she  does  not  put  it  in  her  mouth  on  the  Sabbath  to 

*  See  note  to  preceding  Mishna. 


122  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

commence  with;  if  it  fell  out  of  her  mouth  she  must  not  replace 
it.  As  for  a  metal  or  golden  tooth,  Rabbi  permits  a  woman  to 
go  out  with  it,  but  the  sages  prohibit  it. 

GEMARA:  It  has  been  taught:  "  Provided  a  young  woman 
does  not  go  out  with  (plaits  of  hair  belonging  to)  an  old  woman ; 
nor  an  old  woman  with  plaits  of  hair  belonging  to  a  young 
woman."  So  far  as  an  old  woman  is  concerned,  it  would  be 
nothing  but  right,  for  the  plaits  of  a  young  woman  would  be 
a  source  of  pride  to  her  (and  there  is  fear  of  her  taking  them  off 
to  show  to  others) ;  but  why  should  a  young  woman  be  prohib- 
ited to  go  out  with  plaits  belonging  to  an  old  woman  ?  They 
are  a  disgrace  to  her  (and  surely  she  would  not  take  them  off 
for  exhibition)!  The  teacher  while  treating  on  plaits  with 
respect  to  an  old  woman  also  makes  mention  of  the  case  of 
a  young  woman  (for  the  sake  of  antithesis). 

With  a  hood  or  a  wig  in  her  yard. ' '  Said  Rabh :  ' '  Every- 
thing prohibited  by  the  sages  to  be  worn  on  public  ground  must 
not  be  worn  in  the  yard,  save  a  hood  and  a  wig."  R.  Anani  b. 
Sasson  in  the  name  of  R.  Ishmael  said:  "  Everything  maybe 
worn  in  the  yard  like  a  hood.  But  why  does  Rabh  discriminate 
in  favor  of  these  objects?"  Said  Ulla:  "In  order  that  she 
may  not  become  repulsive  to  her  husband." 

"And  with  cotton  in  her  ears  or  tn  her  shoes.''  Romi  b. 
Ezekiel  taught  only  when  tied  to  her  ears  or  her  shoes. 

"  And  cotton  wadding  prepared  for  her  7nenstriiation.''  "In 
this  case,"  said  Rabha,  "  even  if  it  is  not  tied  it  may  be  worn, 
because,  being  disgusting,  it  will  not  be  handled."  R.  Jere- 
miah b.  R.  Abba  questioned  Rabha:  "  How  is  it  if  the  same  was 
prepared  with  a  handle  ?  "  And  he  answered :  "  Then  it  is  also 
allowed."  And  so  also  it  was  taught  by  R.  Na'hman  b.  Oshia 
in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan. 

R.  Johanan  went  to  the  college  with  cotton  wadding  in  his 
ears  on  Sabbath,  and  his  colleagues  objected  to  it.  R.  Joni 
went  into  unclaimed  ground  with  it  against  the  opinion  of  all 
his  contemporaries. 

With  a  grain  of  pepper  or  a  grain  of  salt.''  The  former  to 
take  away  any  bad  odor  of  the  breath  and  the  latter  as  a  remedy 
for  toothache. 

'  *  Or  with  whatever  else  she  is  accustomed  to  keep  in  her  mouthy ' ' 
meaning  ginger  or  cinnamon. 

"  A  metal  or  a  gilt  tooth,"  etc.  Said  R.  Zera:  They  differ 
concerning  a  gold  tooth  only,  for  a  silver  tooth  is  unanimously 


TRACT   SABBATH.  123 

permitted.  And  so  we  have  learned  plainly  in  a  Boraitha.  Said 
Abayi :  Rabbi,  R.  Eliezer,  and  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar,  all  three 
agree  to  the  opinion  that  anything  provoking  disgust  (or  ridi- 
cule) a  woman  will  not  wear  for  show:  Rabbi,  as  just  cited; 
R.  Eliezer,  as  he  freed  a  woman  bearing  a  box  of  cachous  or 
a  perfume  bottle;  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar,  as  we  have  learned  in 
the  following  Boraitha:  "  Anything  below  the  hair-net  is  per- 
mitted to  be  worn  outside." 

MI  SPINA  VI.  :  Women  may  go  out  with  a  coin  fastened  to 
a  swelling  on  their  feet ;  little  girls  may  go  out  with  laces  on 
and  even  with  screws  in  their  ears.  Arabians  may  go  out  in 
their  long  veils  and  Medians  in  their  mantillas;  so  may  even 
all  women  go  out,  but  the  sages  spoke  of  existing  customs. 
She  may  fold  her  mantilla  around  a  stone,  nut,  or  a  coin 
(used  as  buttons),  provided  she  does  it  not  especially  on  the 
Sabbath. 

GEM  ARA :  ' '  Lttf/e  girls  may  go  out  with  laces. ' '  The  father 
of  Samuel  did  not  permit  his  daughters  to  go  out  with  laces  nor 
to  sleep  together;  he  made  bathing-places  for  them  during  the 
month  of  Nissan,  and  curtains  during  the  month  of  Tishri. 
"  He  did  not  permit  them  to  go  out  with  laces  ?"  Were  we 
not  taught  that  girls  may  go  out  with  laces  ?  The  daughters  of 
Samuel's  father  wore  colored  (fancy)  laces  and  (lest  they  take 
them  off  to  show  to  others)  he  did  not  permit  them  to  go  out 
with  them. 

"  Fold  her  mantilla  around  a  stone,''  etc.  But  did  not  the 
first  part  (of  the  Mishna)  say  that  she  may  fold  it,  etc.?  Said 
Abayi,  the  last  part  of  the  Mishna  has  reference  to  a  coin  (which 
is  not  permitted).  Abayi  questioned :  May  a  woman  fold  her 
mantilla  on  Sabbath  shrewdly  around  a  nut  for  the  purpose  of 
bringing  it  to  her  little  son  ?  And  this  question  is  according  to 
both;  to  him  who  permits  subtilty  in  case  of  fire,  and  also 
according  to  him  who  forbids  it.  According  to  him  who  per- 
mits it,  it  may  be  that  only  in  case  of  fire  he  permits,  as  if  it 
were  not  allowed,  he  would  extinguish  it ;  but  this  is  not  the 
case  here.  And  according  to  him  who  prohibits  it,  it  may  be 
that  he  does  so  because  the  clothing  seller  usually  so  bears  the 
clothes;  but  here,  as  it  is  not  the  custom  to  bear  it  so,  it  may 
be  that  it  is  permitted  ?     The  question  remains. 

MISHNA  VII.  :  The  cripple  may  go  out  with  his  wooden 
leg;  such  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir,  but  R.  Jossi  prohibits  it. 
If  the  wooden  leg  has  a  receptacle  for  pads,  it  is  subject  to 


124  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

defilement.  Crutches  are  subject  to  defilement  by  being  sat  or 
trodden  upon  ;*  but  one  may  go  out  with  them  on  Sabbath  and 
enter  the  outer  court  (of  the  Temple).  The  chair  and  crutches 
of  a  paralytic  are  subject  to  defilement,  and  one  must  not  go 
out  with  them  on  the  Sabbath  nor  enter  the  outer  court  (of  the 
Temple).  Stilts  are  not  subject  to  defilement,  but  nevertheless 
one  must  not  go  out  with  them  on  Sabbath. 

GEMARA:  Rabha  said  to  R.  Na'hman:  How  are  we  to 
accept  the  teaching  of  the  Mishna  ?  Did  R.  Meir  permit  the 
cripple  to  go  out  with  a  wooden  leg  on  the  Sabbath  and  R.  Jossi 
prohibit  his  doing  so,  or  vice  versa?  Answered  R.  Na'hman: 
"  I  know  not."  "  And  how  shall  the  Halakha  prevail  ? "  An- 
swered R.  Na'hman  again:  "I  know  not."  It  was  taught: 
Samuel  and  also  R.  Huna  begin  the  Mishna:  "  A  cripple  shall 
not,"  etc.  And  R.  Joseph  said:  "As  both  sages  read  the 
Mishna  so,  we  shall  do  the  same,"  Rabha  b.  Shira,  however, 
opposed:  "  Was  he  not  aware  that  when  R.  Hanon  b,  Rabha 
taught  so  to  Hyya,  the  son  of  Rabh,  the  father  showed  him 
with  the  movement  of  his  hands  to  change  the  names  ?  In 
reality  Samuel  himself  has  also  receded  from  the  former  teaching, 
and  has  corrected:  "  A  cripple  may  go  out,"  so  is  the  decree  of 
R.  Meir.     [Hamoth,  ioi«.] 

"  And  must  not  enter  the  outer  court,''  etc.  A  Tana  taught 
before  R.  Johanan  that  one  may  go  in  with  them  in  the  outer 
court.  Said  R.  Johanan  to  him :  I  teach  that  a  woman  may 
perform  the  "  Chalitza  "  f  with  them  (hence  they  are  consid- 
ered shoes),  and  you  say  he  may  go  in  with  them  to  the  outer 
court.     Go  and  teach  the  contrary. 

MISHNA  VIII. :  Boys  may  go  out  with  bands  and  princes 
with  golden  belts ;  so  may  every  one  else,  but  the  sages  adduce 
their  instances  from  existing  customs. 

GEMARA:  What  kinds  of  bands  ?  Said  Ada  Mari  in  the 
name  of  R.  Na'hman  b.  Baruch,  who  said  in  the  name  of  R. 
Ashi  b.  Abhin,  quoting  R.  Jehudah:  "  Wreaths  of  Puah  roots." 
Said  Abayi:  "  My  mother  told  me  that  three  of  such  wreaths 
give  relief  (in  sickness),  five  of  them  produce  a  complete  cure, 
and  seven  of  them  are  even  proof  against  witchcraft." 

Said  R.  Aha  b.  Jacob:  "  And  this  only  if  they  (the  wreaths) 

*  Wherever  the  expression  "  subject  to  defilement  by  being  sat  or  trodd«n  upon  " 
occurs  in  the  Talmud  it  refers  to  being  sat  or  trodden  upon  by  a  person  afflicted  with 
venereal  diseases. 

\  See  the  law  of  Chalitza  [Deut.  xxv.  9]. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  125 

have  never  seen  sun,  moon,  or  rain ;  never  heard  a  hammer  fall 
or  a  cock  crow  or  the  fall  of  footsteps." 

Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  "  Thy  bread  is  cast  upon  the 
deep  "  (meaning  the  remedy  is  an  impossibility).* 

The  rabbis  taught:  (Women)  may  go  out  with  a  Kutana 
stone  (to  prevent  miscarriage)  on  the  Sabbath.  It  was  said  in 
the  name  of  R.  Meir  that  they  may  even  go  out  with  the  coun- 
terpoise of  a  Kutana  stone,  and  not  only  such  (women)  as  have 
already  once  miscarried,  but  even  as  a  preventive  to  miscar- 
riage, and  not  only  when  a  woman  is  pregnant,  but  lest  she 
become  pregnant  and  miscarry.  Said  R.  Jemar  b.  Shalmia  in 
the  name  of  Abayi:  But  the  counterpoise  must  be  an  exact  one 
and  made  in  one  piece. 

MISHNA  IX. :  It  is  permitted  to  go  out  with  eggs  of  grass- 
hoppers or  with  the  tooth  of  a  fox  or  a  nail  from  the  gal- 
lows where  a  man  was  hanged,  as  medical  remedies.  Such 
is  the  decision  of  R.  Meir,  but  the  sages  prohibit  the  using 
of  these  things  even  on  week  days,  for  fear  of  imitating  the 
Amorites.f 

GEMARA:  The  eggs  of  grasshoppers  as  a  remedy  for  tooth- 
ache; the  tooth  of  a  fox  as  a  remedy  for  sleep,  viz.,  the  tooth  of 
a  live  fox  to  prevent  sleep  and  of  a  dead  one  to  cause  sleep ;  the 
nail  from  the  gallows  where  a  man  was  hanged  as  a  remedy  for 
swelling. 

''As  medical  remedies,''  such  is  the  decision  of  R.  Meir. 
Abayi  and  Rabha  both  said:  "  Anything  (intended)  for  a  medi- 
cal remedy,  there  is  no  apprehension  of  imitating  the  Amorites; 
hence,  if  not  intended  as  a  remedy  there  is  apprehension  of  imi- 
tating the  Amorites  ?  But  were  we  not  taught  that  a  tree  which 
throws  off  its  fruit,  it  is  permitted  to  paint  it  and  lay  stones 
around  it  ?  It  is  right  only  to  lay  stones  around  it  in  order  to 
weaken  its  strength,  but  what  remedy  is  painting  it  ?  Is  it  not 
imitating  the  Amorites  ?  (Nay)  it  is  only  that  people  may  see 
it  and  pray  for  mercy.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  It  is 
written  [Leviticus,  xiii.  45]:  "  Unclean,  unclean,  shall  he  call 
out."  (To  what  purpose  ?)  That  one  must  make  his  troubles 
known  to  his  fellow-men,  that  they  may  pray  for  his  relief. 

Rabhina  said:  The  hanging  up  of  a  cluster  of  dates  on  a  date 

*  The  text  continues  with  different  quack  remedies  for  sickness,  melancholy,  and 
other  things  which  are  neither  important  nor  translatable,  and  therefore  omitted. 

\  See  Leviticus,  xviii.  3  and  30,  where  the  imitating  of  the  customs  of  the 
Canaanites  and  Amorites  is  forbidden. 


126  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

tree  (as  a  sign  that  the  tree  throws  off  its  fruit)  is  in  accordance 
with  the  above-mentioned  teacher. 

If  one  says:  "  Kill  this  cock,  for  he  crowed  at  night;  or  kill 
this  hen,  for  she  crowed  like  a  cock;  or  I  will  drink  and  leave 
a  little  over,"  because  of  superstition,  there  is  apprehension 
that  he  imitate  theAmorites;  but  one  may  put  a  splinter  of 
"  Tuth  "  *  or  a  piece  of  glass  in  a  pot,  that  it  may  boil  the 
quicker.  The  sages,  however,  prohibited  pieces  of  glass  as 
being  dangerous.  The  rabbis  taught:  One  may  throw  a  hand- 
ful of  salt  in  a  lamp  that  it  may  burn  the  brighter,  or  loam  and 
fragments  of  earthenware  that  it  may  burn  more  slowly.  The 
saying"  to  your  health  "  at  wine-drinking  is  no  imitation  of  the 
customs  of  the  Amorites.  It  happened  that  R.  Aqiba  gave 
a  banquet  in  honor  of  his  son,  and  at  every  cup  that  he  drank 
he  said:  "  To  the  wine  in  the  mouth  and  to  the  health  of  the 
sages  and  their  disciples." 

*  Zilla,  according  to  the  commentary  of  Malkhi  Zedek,  which  means  "  a  smooth 
shrubby  herb,  of  the  mustard  family." 


CHAPTER   VII. 

THE    GENERAL    RULE    CONCERNING     THE     PRINCIPAL    ACTS    OF    LABOR 

ON    SABBATH. 

MISHNA/. :  A  general  rule  was  laid  down  respecting  the 
Sabbath.  One  who  has  entirely  forgotten  the  principle  of 
(keeping)  the  Sabbath  and  performed  many  kinds  of  work  on 
many  Sabbath  days,  is  liable  to  bring  but  one  sin-offering.  He, 
however,  who  was  aware  of  the  principle  of  Sabbath,  but  (for- 
getting the  day)  committed  many  acts  of  labor  on  Sabbath  days, 
is  liable  to  bring  a  separate  sin-offering  for  each  and  every  Sab- 
bath day  (which  he  has  violated).  One  who  knew  that  it  was 
Sabbath  and  performed  many  kinds  of  work  on  different  Sab- 
bath days  (not  knowing  that  such  work  was  prohibited),  is  liable 
to  bring  a  separate  sin-offering  for  every  principal  act  of  labor 
committed.  One  who  committed  many  acts  all  emanating  from 
one  principal  act  is  liable  for  but  one  sin-offering. 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  reason  that  the  Mishna  uses  the 
expression  "  a  general  rule  "  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  it  means 
to  teach  us  a  subordinate  rule  in  the  succeeding  Mishna,  and 
the  same  is  the  case  with  the  Mishna  concerning  the  Sabbatical 
year,  where  at  first  a  general  rule  is  taught  and  the  subsequent 
Mishnas  teach  a  subordinate  rule  ?  Why  does  the  Mishna 
relating  to  tithes  teach  one  rule  and  the  succeeding  Mishna 
another,  but  does  not  call  the  first  rule  a  "  general  rule  "  ?  Said 
R.  Jose  b.  Abbin:  Sabbath  and  the  Sabbatical  years,  in  both  of 
which  there  are  principals  and  derivatives,  he  expresses  a  gen- 
eral rule;  tithes,  however,  in  which  there  are  no  principals  and 
derivatives,  no  general  rule  was  laid  down.  But  did  not  Bar 
Kapara  teach  us  a  general  rule  also  in  tithes  ?  It  must  be  there- 
fore explained  thus:  The  subject  of  Sabbath  is  greater  than 
Sabbatical,  as  the  first  applies  to  attached  and  detached  things, 
while  the  Sabbatical  applies  only  to  attached  ones.  The  sub- 
ject of  the  latter,  however,  is  greater  than  tithes,  as  it  applies 
to  human  and  cattle  food ;  while  tithes  appHes  only  to  human 
food.     And  Bar  Kapara  teaches  a  general  rule  in  tithes  also, 


128  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

because  it  is  greater  than  peah  (corner  tithe),  as  tne  former  ap- 
plies also  to  figs  and  herbs,  which  is  not  the  case  with  peah. 

It  was  taught  concerning  the  statement  of  the  Mishna:  He 
who  forgot,  etc.,  that  Rabh  and  Samuel  both  said:  Even  a 
child  that  was  captured  by  idolaters  or  a  proselyte  who  remained 
among  idolaters  is  regarded  as  one  who  was  aware  of  the  princi- 
ple, but  forgot  it  and  is  liable;  and  both  R.  Johanan  and  Resh 
Lakish  said  that  the  liability  falls  only  upon  him  who  was  aware, 
but  subsequently  forgot ;  the  child  and  the  proselyte  in  question 
are  considered  as  if  they  were  never  aware,  and  are  free. 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following:  A  general  rule 
was  laid  down  concerning  the  observation  of  the  Sabbath.  One 
who  had  entirely  forgotten  the  principle  of  Sabbath,  and  had 
performed  many  kinds  of  work  on  many  Sabbath  days,  is  liable 
for  but  one  sin-offering.  How  so  ?  A  child  which  was  captured 
by  idolaters  and  a  proselyte  remaining  with  idolaters,  who  had 
performed  many  acts  of  labor  on  different  Sabbaths,  are  liable 
for  but  one  sin-offering;  and  also  for  the  blood  or  (prohibited) 
fats  which  he  has  consumed  during  the  whole  time,  and  even 
for  worshipping  idols  during  the  whole  time,  he  is  liable  for  only 
one  sin-offering.  Munbaz,  however,  frees  them  entirely.  And 
thus  did  he  discuss  before  R.  Aqiba:  Since  the  intentional 
transgressor  and  the  unintentional  are  both  called  sinners,  I 
may  say:  As  an  intentional  one  cannot  be  called  so  unless  he 
was  aware  that  it  is  a  sin,  the  same  is  the  case  with  an  uninten- 
tional, who  cannot  be  called  sinner  unless  he  was  at  some  time 
aware  that  this  is  a  sin  (it  is  true,  then,  the  above  must  be  con- 
sidered as  never  having  been  aware  of  it).  Said  R.  Aqiba  to 
him:  "  I  will  make  an  amendment  to  your  decree,  as  the  inten- 
tional transgressor  cannot  be  considered  as  such  unless  he  is 
cognizant  of  his  guilt  at  the  time  of  action,  so  also  should  not 
the  unintentional  transgressor  be  considered  as  such  unless  he 
is  cognizant  at  the  time  of  action.'^  Answered  Munbaz:  "  So  it 
is,  and  the  more  so  after  your  amendment."  Thereupon  R. 
Aqiba  replied:  "According  to  your  reasoning,  one  could  not 
be  called  an  unintentional  transgressor,  but  an  intentional." 
Hence  it  is  plainly  stated:  "  How  so  ?  A  child,"  etc.  This  is 
only  in  accordance  with  Rabh  and  Samuel,  and  it  contradicts 
R.  Johanan  and  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish.  They  may  say:  "  Is 
there  not  a  Tana  Munbaz,  who  freed  them  ?  We  hold  with 
him  and  with  his  reason,  namely:  It  is  written  [Numb.  xv.  29]: 
"  A  law  shall  be  for   you,  for  him  that    acteth  through  igno- 


TRACT   SABBATH.  129 

ranee,"  and  the  next  verse  says  [ibid.  30],  "  but  the  person  that 
doeth  aught  with  a  high  hand."  The  verse  compares  then  the 
ignorant  to  him  who  has  acted  intentionally ;  and  as  the  latter 
cannot  be  guilty  unless  he  was  aware  of  his  sin,  the  same  is  the 
case  with  the  ignorant,  who  cannot  be  considered  guilty  unless 
he  was  at  some  time  aware  of  the  sin. 

Another  objection  was  raised  from  a  Mishna  farther  on: 
"  Forty  less  one  are  the  principal  acts  of  labor."  And  deliber- 
ating for  what  purpose  the  number  is  taught,  said  R.  Johanan: 
For  that,  if  one  performed  them  all  through  forgetfulness,  he  is 
liable  for  each  of  them.  How  is  such  a  thing  (as  utter  forget- 
fulness) to  be  imagined  ?  We  must  assume  that  although  cog- 
nizant of  the  (day  being)  Sabbath,  one  forgot  which  acts  of 
labor  (were  prohibited).  And  this  is  correct  only  in  accordance 
with  R.  Johanan,  who  holds:  "  If  one  is  ignorant  of  what  acts 
of  labor  constitute  (sin  punishable  with)  Karath  (being  '  cut 
off '),  and  commits  one  of  those  acts  even  intentionally,  he  is 
bound  to  bring  a  sin-offering  only."  And  such  an  instance  can 
be  found  in  case  one  knows  that  those  acts  of  labor  were  pro- 
hibited, at  the  same  time  being  ignorant  of  that  punishment 
which  is  Karath.  But  according  to  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish,  who 
holds  that  one  must  be  totally  ignorant  of  both  the  punishment 
of  Karath  and  what  acts  are  prohibited  on  Sabbath,  how  can 
the  above  case  be  found  ?  He  was  aware  that  Sabbath  must  be 
kept.  But  what  was  he  aware  of  in  the  observance  of  Sabbath  ? 
He  only  knew  of  the  law  governing  the  going  outside  of  the 
boundaries  of  the  city. 

But  who  is  the  Tana  of  the  following  Boraitha  ?  The  scrip- 
tural passage,  "  Him  that  acteth  through  ignorance,"  refers  to 
one  who  was  ignorant  both  of  the  (principle  of)  Sabbath  and  the 
prohibition  of  the  acts  of  labor.  One  who  was  cognizant  of 
both  is  referred  to  by  the  Scriptures  as  "  the  person  that  doeth 
aught  with  a  high  hand."  If  one,  however,  was  cognizant  of 
the  (principle  of)  Sabbath,  but  not  of  the  prohibition  of  the  acts 
of  labor,  or  vice  versa,  or  even  if  he  knew  that  the  acts  of  labor 
were  prohibited,  but  did  not  know  that  they  involved  culpa- 
bility requiring  a  sin-offering  (while  he  is  not  the  scriptural  man 
"  that  acteth  through  ignorance  "),  still  he  is  culpable  of  a  trans- 
gression requiring  a  sin-offering  ?    It  is  Munbaz  mentioned  above. 

R.  Huna  said:  One  who  has  been  travelling  in  a  desert  and 
does  not  know  what  day  is  Sabbath,  must  count  six  days  from 
the  day  (on  which  he  realizes)  that  he  has  missed  the  Sabbath, 

VOL.    I.— 9 


130  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

and  observe  the  seventh.  Hyya  b.  Rabh  said:  He  must  observe 
that  very  day  and  then  continue  his  counting  from  that  day. 
And  what  is  the  point  of  their  differing  ?  The  former  holds 
that  one  must  act  in  accordance  with  the  creation  (which  com- 
menced six  days  before  the  Sabbath),  while  the  latter  holds  that 
one  must  be  guided  by  Adam's  creation  (on  the  eve  of  Sabbath). 
An  objection  was  made:  "  If  a  man  while  travelling  in  a  desert 
forgot  when  the  Sabbath  arrives,  he  must  count  *  one  day  to 
six  '  and  then  observe  the  seventh.  Does  this  not  mean  he  must 
count  six  days  and  then  observe  the  seventh  ?"  Nay;  it  may 
be  said  that  it  means  that  very  day,  and  continue  his  counting 
from  that  day.  If  this  be  the  case,  why  are  we  taught  "  he 
must  count  one  to  six  "  ?  It  should  be  taught  (plainly)  he  must 
observe  a  day  and  continue  counting  from  that  day.  Moreover, 
we  were  taught  in  a  Boraitha:  "  If  one  while  travelling  in  the 
desert  forgot  when  the  Sabbath  arrives,  he  must  count  six  days 
and  observe  the  seventh."  The  objection  to  R.  Hyya  b.  Rabh 
is  sustained. 

Rabha  said  (referring  to  the  traveller  who  forgot  the  Sab- 
bath) :  ' '  On  every  day,  except  the  one  on  which  he  realizes  that 
he  has  missed  the  Sabbath,  he  may  perform  enough  labor  to 
sustain  himself."  But  one  that  should  do  nothing  and  die  (of 
hunger)  ?  Nay;  only  in  case  he  provided  himself  with  his  neces- 
saries on  the  preceding  day.  Perhaps  the  preceding  day  was 
Sabbath.  Therefore  read:  He  may  labor  even  on  that  day  to 
sustain  himself.  In  what  respects  is  that  day,  then,  to  be  dis- 
tinguished from  other  days  ?  By  means  of  Kiddush  and  Habh- 
dalah.'^ 

Said  Rabha  again:  "If  he  only  recollects  the  number  of 
days  he  has  been  travelling,  he  may  labor  all  day  on  the  eighth 
day  of  his  journey,  in  any  event  "  (for  he  surely  did  not  start 
on  his  journey  on  a  Sabbath).  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  Lest 
one  say  that  one  would  not  only  not  start  out  on  the  Sabbath, 
but  also  not  on  the  day  before  Sabbath ;  hence,  if  he  went  out 
on  the  fifth  day  of  the  week,  he  is  permitted  to  work  on  both 
the  eighth  and  ninth  days  of  his  journey.  Therefore  he  comes 
to  teach  us  that  only  on  the  eighth  day  of  his  journey  would  he 
be  permitted  to  work,  for  frequently  one  comes  upon  a  caravan 
on  Friday  and  starts  out  even  on  that  day. 

*  Kiddush  and  Habhdalah  are  the  benedictions  recited  at  the  commencement  and 
termination  of  the  Sabbath,  the  former  over  wine  or  bread  and  the  latter  only  over 
some  beverage. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  131 

"  One  who  has  etitirely  forgotten,"  etc.  Whence  is  this  de- 
duced ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu: 
"  There  are  two  verses  in  the  Scripture,  viz.  [Exod.  xxxi.  16]: 
'  And  the  children  of  Israel  shall  keep  the  Sabbath,'  and  [Lev. 
xix.  3]:  '  And  my  Sabbaths  shall  ye  keep.'  How  is  this  to  be 
explained  ? "  The  first  means  the  observance  of  the  command- 
ment of  Sabbath  generally,  and  the  second  means  one  observ- 
ance of  the  commandment  for  each  Sabbath. 

Ofie  who  knew  {the  principle  of)  Sabbath, ' '  What  is  the 
reason  of  a  difference  between  the  former  and  the  latter  part  of 
the  Mishna  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman:  For  what  transgression  does 
the  Scripture  make  one  liable  for  a  sin-offering  ?  For  what  is 
done  through  ignorance  ?  In  the  former  part  of  the  Mishna 
the  case  of  one  who  was  not  aware  that  it  was  Sabbath  is  dealt 
with,  and  hence  only  one  sin-offering  is  imposed,  while  in  the 
latter  the  case  dealt  with  is  of  one  who  was  aware  that  it  was 
Sabbath,  but  ignorant  as  to  the  acts  of  labor,  hence  a  sin-offer- 
ing for  each  act  is  prescribed. 

"  Liable  for  a  sin-offering,"  etc.  Whence  do  we  deduce  the 
distinction  between  acts  of  labor?  Said  Samuel:  It  is  written 
[Exod.  xxxi.  14]:  "  Every  one  that  defileth  it  shall  be  surely 
put  to  death."  We  see,  then,  that  the  Scripture  has  provided 
many  deaths*  for  defiling  the  Sabbath.  But  does  not  the  verse 
refer  to  one  who  violates  the  Sabbath  wantonly  ?  As  it  cannot 
be  applied  to  an  intentional  violator,  for  it  is  already  written 
[Exod.  xxxv.  2] :  Whosoever  doeth  work  thereon  shall  be  put  to 
death";  therefore  apply  it  to  an  unintentional  sinner.  How, 
then,  will  you  explain  the  words  "  put  to  death"  ?  That  is 
only  the  pecuniary  equivalent  (of  being  put  to  death)  (viz.,  he 
shall  bring  a  sin-offering  which  costs  money).  Why  not  advance 
the  distinction  between  the  acts  of  labor,  as  R.  Nathan  (does 
elsewhere)  ?  Samuel  is  not  of  the  opinion  of  R.  Nathan,  but  of 
R.  Jossi,  who  says  that  the  additional  commandment  not  to 
kindle  a  fire  on  the  Sabbath  was  taught  additionally  for  the 
special  purpose  of  conveying  to  us  that  one  who  does  kindle 
a  fire  is  not  to  be  punished  either  with  Karath  or  stoning;  for 
we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  The  additional  commandment 
not  to  kindle  a  fire  on  the  Sabbath  was  taught  additionally  for 
the  special  purpose  of  conveying  to  us  that  one  who  kindles 
a  fire  on  the  Sabbath  is  not  to  be  punished  either  with  Karath 

*  The  literal  translation  of  the  passage  Exod.  xxxi.  14  is  :  "  Every  one  that  de- 
fileth it  [the  Sabbath],  death  shall  he  die." 


132  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

or  stoning.  Such  is  the  opinion  of  R.  Jossi.  R.  Nathan  says 
it  is  written  for  the  sake  of  separation  (from  other  acts).  Let 
then  the  separation  of  acts  of  labor  be  adduced  whence  R.  Jossi 
adduces  them — in  the  following  Boraitha:  It  is  written  [Lev, 
iv.  2]:  "  And  do  (of)  any  (one)  of  them,"  as  follows:  Sometimes 
one  is  only  bound  to  bring  one  sin-offering  for  all  transgressions, 
and  sometimes  one  is  bound  to  bring  a  sin-offering  for  each  and 
every  transgression  separately. 

Said  R.  Jossi  b.  Hanina:  "  Why  does  R.  Jossi  explain  that 
passage  thus  ?  The  verse  should  read  '  one  of  them  '  (Achath 
mehenoh),  but  in  reality  it  reads  '  of  one  of  them  '  (Meachath 
mehenoh),  or  it  should  read  '  of  one  them  '  (Meachath  henoh), 
but  it  reads  '  of  one  of  them.'  Therefore  he  explains  that 
'  sometimes  one  is  equal  to  many  and  sometimes  many  equal 
one.'"* 

Rabha  questioned  R.  Na'hman:  "  How  is  it  if  one  is  igno- 
rant of  both  (of  the  day  being  Sabbath  and  the  prohibition  of 
the  acts  of  labor  on  that  day)  ?  Answered  R.  Na'hman:  "  Take 
one  instance  at  a  time.  You  say  he  was  ignorant  of  the  day 
being  Sabbath;  then  he  is  bound  to  bring  a  sin-offering.  How 
would  it  be  if,  on  the  contrary,  I  had  said  that  he  was  ignorant 
of  the  prohibition  of  the  acts  of  labor  first?  Would  you  say 
that  he  becomes  liable  to  a  sin-offering  for  each  and  every  act 
performed?"  Said  R.  Ashi:  "Let  us  see  from  the  man's 
actions.  How  would  it  be  if  one  came  to  him  and  reminded 
him  of  its  being  Sabbath  (without  calling  his  attention  to  the 
fact  that  he  was  working)  ?  If  the  man  immediately  stopped  his 
work,  it  is  clear  that  he  had  actually  forgotten  that  it  was  Sab- 
bath. If,  however,  the  man  was  reminded  by  a  third  party  that 
he  was  working  (without  having  his  attention  called  to  the  fact 
that  it  was  Sabbath),  and  he  immediately  quit  his  work,  it  is 
evident  that  he  was  not  cognizant  of  the  prohibition  of  the  acts 
of  labor;  hence  he  would  become  liable  to  bring  a  sin-offering 
for  each  and  every  act  performed.  Said  Rabbina  to  R.  Ashi: 
"  What  difference  does  it  make  ?  If  one  is  reminded  that  it  is 
Sabbath  and  he  quits  work,  he  becomes  aware  that  it  is  Sab- 
bath, and  if  he  is  reminded  of  his  working  he  also  becomes 
aware  that  the  day  is  Sabbath;  hence  it  makes  no  difference." 

Rabha  said  (supposing  the  following  case  happened:  "  One 
reaped  and  ground  the  equivalent  (in  size)  of  a  fig  on  a  Sabbath, 

*  In  that  passajje  there  is  a  superfluous  Mem  (the  Hebrew  prefix  meaning  of  ox 
from).     Hence  its  literal  translation  is  "of  one  of  them." 


TRACT   SABBATH  133 

without  knowing  that  it  was  Sabbath,  and  on  another  Sabbath 
did  the  same  thing,  knowing  it  was  Sabbath,  but  not  knowing 
that  such  acts  of  labor  were  prohibited ;  then  remembered  that 
he  had  committed  a  transgression  on  the  Sabbath  through  igno- 
rance of  the  day  being  Sabbath,  and  took  a  sheep  and  set  it  aside 
for  a  sin-offering.  Suddenly  he  recollected  that  he  had  also 
committed  a  transgression  on  the  other  Sabbath,  through  his 
ignorance  of  the  prohibition  of  the  acts  of  labor.  What  would 
the  law  be  in  such  a  case  ?  I  can  say  that  the  sheep  set  aside 
for  a  sin-offering  for  the  first  transgression  suffices  also  for  the 
second,  although  in  reality  two  sin-offerings  were  required  to 
atone  for  the  second  transgression.  The  one  sin-offering  would 
suffice,  because  it  is  in  truth  not  brought  for  forgetting  the  Sab- 
bath, but  for  reaping  and  grinding;  the  reaping  in  the  first 
instance  carries  with  it  the  reaping  in  the  second,  as  also  the 
grinding  in  the  first  instance  carries  with  it  the  grinding  in  the 
second,  and  one  sin-offering  atones  for  all. 

Assuming,  however,  that  in  the  second  instance  (when  he 
forgot  about  the  prohibition  of  the  acts  of  labor)  he  (at  some 
later  time)  recollected  only  having  reaped  (but  forgot  that  he 
also  ground),  and  having  set  aside  the  sin-offering  he  became 
liable  for  on  account  of  his  transgression  in  the  first  instance 
(when  he  forgot  about  the  Sabbath),  he  atones  for  the  reaping 
and  grinding  on  the  first  Sabbath  and  for  the  reaping  on  the 
second  Sabbath,  but  not  for  the  grinding  on  the  second  Sab- 
bath;  hence  (after  also  recollecting  that  he  had  ground)  he  must 
bring  an  additional  sin-offering.  Abayi,  however,  says:  The 
one  sin-offering  atones  for  all,  because  the  grinding,  which  he 
atones  for  in  the  first  instance,  also  carries  with  it  the  grinding 
in  the  second  instance.  Why  so  ?  For  the  reason  that  in  both 
instances  the  acts  atoned  for  are  analogous.  (When  a  sin-offer- 
ing was  brought,  a  confession  was  made.  In  citing  the  sin  com- 
mitted in  the  first  instance  grinding  was  mentioned  and  applies 
also  to  the  grinding  in  the  second  instance.  Therefore  no  addi- 
tional sin-offering  is  necessary.) 

It  was  taught:  If  one  has  eaten  tallow  (which  is  prohibited) 
on  two  different  occasions,  and  at  both  times  the  tallow  was  the 
equivalent  (in  size)  of  an  olive  (or  larger) ;  and  afterward  he  was 
reminded  of  the  first  occason,  and  later  on  of  the  second  occa- 
sion also,  what  is  the  law  in  his  case  ?  R.  Johanan  says:  He 
must  bring  two  sin-offerings.  Why  so  ?  Because  he  recol- 
lected   the   transgressions   at    different   times.       Resh    Lakish, 


134  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

however,  says:  He  need  bring  only  one  sin-offering.  What  is 
R,  Johanan's  reason  ?  Because  it  is  written  [Lev.  iv.  28]: 
"  For  his  sin,  which  he  hath  committed,"  and  he  adduces  there- 
from that  for  every  sin  committed  one  must  bring  a  separate 
sin-offering,  and  Resh  Lakish  holds  according  to  the  passage 
[ibid.  26],  "  Concerning  his  sin,  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  him," 
and  claims  that  it  being  one  and  the  same  sin,  only  one  sin- 
offering  is  sufficient.  But  what  will  Resh  Lakish  do  with  the 
verse,  "  For  his  sin  which  he  hath  committed"  ?  That  refers 
to  the  sin-offering  which  had  already  been  brought,  and  there- 
fore could  not  apply  to  a  later  sin.  And  what  about  R.  Johanan 
and  the  passage,  "  Concerning  his  sin,  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  "  ? 
R,  Johanan  explains  this  as  follows:  If  a  man  ate  tallow  equiva- 
lent (in  size)  to  an  olive  and  a  half,  and  later  ate  another  piece 
the  size  of  half  an  olive.  Afterward  he  recollected  having  eaten 
tallow,  but  thought  that  it  was  the  size  of  one  olive,  might 
some  not  say  that  the  remaining  piece  eaten  in  the  first  instance 
should  be  added  to  the  piece  eaten  in  the  second  instance,  and 
thus  constitute  another  piece  the  equivalent  (in  size)  to  an  olive, 
and  make  him  liable  for  another  sin-offering  ?  Therefore  the 
passage  which  means:  After  once  having  obtained  forgiveness 
for  the  transgression  on  the  first  occasion  the  second  cannot  be 
counted  in  with  the  first. 

It  was  taught:  If  one  intended  to  pick  up  a  thing  detached 
(for  instance,  a  knife  that  had  fallen  in  a  row  of  vegetables),  and 
while  doing  so  (accidentally)  cut  off  one  of  the  growing  vege- 
tables, he  is  free.*  If,  however,  he  intended  to  cut  something 
lying  on  (but  not  attached  to)  the  ground,  and  instead  cut  off 
something  growing  out    of   (attached    to)  the    ground,    Rabha 

*  In  the  Tract  Kriroth  the  reason  of  the  man's  non-culpability  is  explained  as  fol- 
lows :  It  is  written  [Lev.  iv.  23],  "  If  now  his  sin  wherein  he  has  sinned  come  to  his 
knowledge,"  and  this  should  be  supplemented  with  "  but  not  the  sin  which  he  had  not 
in  mind  to  commit  at  ail."  Whence  we  see  plainly  that  the  Scriptures  designate  as  an 
unintentional  sinner  only  one  who  knows  wherein  he  has  sinned;  for  instance,  if  he 
became  aware  that  it  was  Sabbath,  or  that  the  acts  performed  by  him  were  prohibited. 
In  our  case,  however,  where  a  man  intended  to  pick  up  a  thing  but  accidentally  cut 
a  thing,  it  is  evident  that  no  intention  to  cut  existed  in  the  man's  mind,  and  the  intent 
of  the  ''wherein  he  has  sinned"  in  the  Scriptures  does  not  apply  to  him.  Rabha 
goes  further  and  says  that  even  if  one  actually  accomplished  an  act  he  had  in  mind 
and  which  was  permissible  on  the  Sabbath,  but  at  the  same  time  accidentally  com- 
mitted a  prohibited  act  (as  illustrated  in  the  above  instance),  even  in  such  a  case  the 
scriptural  ''wherein  he  has  sinned"  cannot  apply,  nor  can  he  be  accounted  the 
scriptural  unintentional  sinner  who  is  liable  for  a  sin-offering.  Abayi,  however,  differs 
with  him,  as  will  be  seen  farther  on. 


TRACT    SABBATH. 


135 


declares  him  free,  because  no  intention  to  cut  off  the  growing 
object  existed  in  the  mind  of  the  man;  but  Abayi  declares  him 
culpable  for  the  reason  that,  while  the  man  did  not  intend  to 
cut  off  what  he  really  did,  still  the  intention  to  cut  was  preva- 
lent in  the  man's  mind,  and  he  really  did  cut;  hence  he  is  what 
the  Scriptures  refer  to  as  "  one  who  acteth  unintentionally." 

It  was  also  taught:  One  who  intended  to  throw  (from  private 
ground  into  public)  only  for  a  distance  of  two  ells,  but  threw 
four,  is  freed  by  Rabha,  for  the  reason  that  the  original  inten- 
tion was  to  throw  within  a  permissible  distance  (throwing  for 
a  distance  of  two  ells  only  was  permitted) ;  but  Abayi  held  him 
culpable,  for  the  reason  that  the  act  originally  intended  was 
accomplished.  If  one  threw  in  public  ground  mistaking  it  for 
private,  Rabh  holds  him  free  (for  the  same  reason  as  before), 
and  Abayi  holds  him  culpable  (also  for  the  same  reason  as  he 
gave  in  the  previous  case).  Both  instances  though  analogous 
are  necessary.  In  the  first  instance  (of  cutting),  where  Rabh 
holds  the  offender  not  culpable,  the  intention  to  cut  off  what 
was  prohibited  did  not  exist,  but  in  the  second  instance  (throw- 
ing four  ells),  it  could  not  be  accomplished  without  (carrying 
out  the  intention  of)  throwing  for  two  ells,  and  passing  the  two 
ells  (the  object  landing  at  a  distance  of  four).  Now,  lest  one 
might  say  that  Rabha  coincides  with  the  opinion  of  Abayi,  and 
from  the  latter  instance  it  might  be  assumed  that  the  offender 
intended  to  throw  two,  but  threw  four  ells,  hence  Rabha  holds 
him  not  culpable,  for  the  intention  to  throw  four  ells  did  not 
exist;  but  if  one  threw  four  ells  in  what  he  thought  was  private 
ground,  and  which  turned  out  to  be  public  ground,  the  inten- 
tion was  carried  out,  for  the  object  thrown  reached  its  desired 
destination,  and  therefore  lest  one  say  that  in  this  case  Rabha 
coincides  with  Abayi,  the  two  instances  are  illustrated,  and  we 
are  informed  that  not  even  in  this  case  does  Rabha  agree  with 
Abayi. 

MISHNA  //. :  The  principal  acts  of  labor  (prohibited  on  the 
Sabbath)  are  forty  less  one — viz. :  Sowing,  ploughing,  reaping, 
binding  into  sheaves,  threshing,  winnowing,  fruit-cleaning,  grind- 
ing, sifting,  kneading,  baking,  wool-shearing,  bleaching,  comb- 
ing, dyeing,  spinning,  warping,  making  two  spindle-trees,  weav- 
ing two  threads,  separating  two  threads  (in  the  warp),  tying 
a  knot,  untying  a  knot,  sewing  on  with  two  stitches,  tearing  in 
order  to  sew  together  with  two  stitches,  hunting  deer,  slaugh- 
tering the  same,  skinning  them,   salting  them,   preparing  the 


136  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

hide,  scraping  the  hair  off,  cutting  it,  writing  two  (single)  letters 
(characters),  erasing  in  order  to  write  two  letters,  building, 
demolishing  (in  order  to  rebuild),  kindling,  extinguishing  (fire), 
hammering,  transferring  from  one  place  into  another.  These 
are  the  principal  acts  of  labor — forty  less  one. 

GEMARA:  For  what  purpose  is  the  number  (so  distinctly) 
given  ?  (They  are  enumerated.)  Said  R.  Johanan:  If  one 
labored  through  total  ignorance  of  the  (laws  governing  the) 
Sabbath,  he  must  bring  a  sin-offering  for  every  act  of  labor 
performed. 

''  Sowing, ploughing.''  Let  us  see:  Ploughing  being  always 
done  before  sowing,  let  it  be  taught  first.  The  Tana  (who 
taught  as  in  the  Mishna)  is  a  Palestinian,  and  in  his  country 
they  sow  first  and  then  plough.  Some  one  taught  that  sowing, 
pruning,  planting,  transplanting,  and  grafting  are  all  one  and  the 
same  kind  of  labor.  What  would  he  inform  us  thereby  ?  That 
if  one  performs  many  acts  of  labor,  all  of  the  same  class,  he  is 
liable  for  but  one  sin-offering. 

Said  R.  Aha  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  b.  Ashi,  quoting 
R.  Ami:  "  One  who  prunes  is  guilty  of  planting,  and  one  who 
plants,  transplants,  or  grafts  is  guilty  of  sowing."  Of  sowing 
and  not  of  planting  ?     I  mean  to  say  of  sowing  also. 

Said  R.  Kahana:  One  who  prunes  and  uses  the  branches  for 
fuel  is  liable  for  two  sin-ofTerings,  one  for  reaping  and  one  for 
planting.  Said  R.  Joseph:  One  who  mows  alfalfa  (hay)  is  guilty 
of  mowing  and  planting  both.  Said  Abayi:  One  who  mows 
clover  hay  (which  sheds  its  seed  when  mowed)  is  liable  (for  a  sin- 
offering)  for  mowing  and  sowing. 

"  Ploughing.''  There  is  a  Boraitha:  Ploughing,  digging,  fur- 
rowing, are  one  and  the  same  kind  of  labor.  R.  Shesheth  said: 
One  who  removes  a  knoll  of  earth  in  a  house  becomes  liable  for 
building,  and  if  in  a  field  he  is  liable  for  ploughing.  Rabha 
said:  Filling  up  a  hole  in  the  house  makes  one  liable  for  build- 
ing, and  in  the  field  for  ploughing.  R.  Aba  said:  Digging  (the 
same  hole)  on  Sabbath  for  the  purpose  of  making  use  of  the 
earth  alone  is  free  even  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  who  said  that 
the  performance  of  an  unnecessary  act  of  labor  makes  one  cul- 
pable. He  refers  to  labor  that  improves  an  object  and  not  to 
that  which  spoils  it. 

"  Mowing."  There  is  a  Boraitha:  Reaping,  vintaging, 
selecting  dates,  olives,  and  figs  are  all  one  and  the  same  kind 
of  labor. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  137 

"  Binding  into  sheaves.*'  Rabha  said:  One  who  gathers  salt 
from  salt  works  is  guilty  of  the  act  of  binding  into  sheaves. 
Abayi,  however,  said  that  binding  into  sheaves  applies  only  to 
produce  of  the  soil. 

Threshing.'*  There  is  a  Boraitha:  Threshing,  carding,  and 
hackling  belong  to  one  and  the  same  class  of  labor. 

Threshing,  winnowing,  fruit-cleaning,*'  etc.  Is  not  win- 
nowing, fruit-cleaning,  and  sifting  one  and  the  same  class  of 
labor?  Abayi  and  Rabha  both  said:  "  Acts  of  labor  executed 
during  the  construction  of  the  tabernacle  are  enumerated  sepa- 
rately, though  they  are  of  an  analogous  nature."  Let  pound- 
ing then  also  be  enumerated  (as  labor,  inasmuch  as  the  spices  for 
incense  had  to  be  pounded).  Said  Abayi:  (It  is  true!  This 
is  also  one  of  the  acts  of  labor  performed  at  the  construction  of 
the  tabernacle.)  But  as  the  poor  people  do  not  pound  their 
grain,  generally  using  it  in  its  natural  state,  it  is  not  included  in 
the  principal  acts  of  labor.  Rabha,  however,  said:  "The 
Mishna  should  be  understood  in  the  sense  Rabbi  expounded  it: 
The  principal  acts  of  labor  are  forty  less  one.  Should  pounding 
be  included,  there  would  be  forty  even."  Let  then  one  of  the 
principal  acts  (enumerated  in  the  Mishna)  be  stricken  out  and 
substituted  by  pounding.  Hence  it  is  best  to  accept  Abayi's 
reason. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  there  are  several  kinds  of  food  before 
a  man  on  the  Sabbath,  he  may  select  such  as  he  desires  and 
even  set  it  aside,  but  he  must  not  separate  the  good  from  the 
spoilt.  If  he  does  this,  he  is  liable  for  a  sin-offering.  How  is 
this  to  be  understood  ?  R.  Hamnuna  explained  it  thus:  "  One 
may  select  the  good  from  the  spoilt  for  immediate  or  later  con- 
sumption, but  he  must  not  pick  out  the  spoilt,  leaving  the  good 
for  later  consumption.  If  he  does  this,  he  is  liable."  Abayi 
opposed:  "  Is  there  anything  mentioned  (in  the  Mishna)  about 
separating  the  good  from  the  spoilt  ?"  He  therefore  explained 
the  Boraitha  as  follows:  "  Food  may  be  selected  for  immediate 
consumption  and  setting  aside,  but  not  for  later  consumption. 
If  this  is  done,  it  is  considered  the  same  as  storing  it,  and  in- 
volves the  liability."  This  was  reported  to  Rabha  by  the 
rabbis,  and  he  said :  Na'hmeni  (Abayi)  has  explained  it  correctly. 

When  two  kinds  of  food  were  before  a  man  and  he  selected 
part  of  one  kind  and  ate  it,  then  selected  part  of  the  other  kind 
and  set  it  aside,  R.  Ashi  learned  in  the  Boraitha  that  the  man 
is  free,  but  R.  Jeremiah  of  Diphti  learned  that  he  is  culpable. 


138  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Is  there  not  a  Boraitha  which  teaches  that  he  is  ?  This  presents 
no  difficulty.  R.  Ashi  refers  to  food  served  in  a  basket  or 
a  bowl,  but  R.  Jeremiah  learned  that  the  man  sifted  the  food  in 
a  sieve. 

When  R.  Dimi  came  to  Babylon  he  related:  It  happened  on 
a  Sabbath,  when  R.  Bibhi's  turn  came  to  entertain  the  disciples, 
that  R.  Ami  and  R.  Assi  arrived.  R.  Bibhi  placed  before  them 
a  basket  filled  with  fruit  (together  with  the  leaves  and  sprigs), 
and  I  am  not  aware  what  his  reason  was.  Was  he  of  the  opin- 
ion that  it  is  forbidden  to  separate  food  from  trash,  or  was  it 
his  liberality  ? 

Hyzkiyah  said:  "  One  who  shells  pressed  lupines  (on  the 
Sabbath)  is  culpable."  Does  this  mean  to  say  that  it  is  forbid- 
den to  separate  food  from  trash  ?  Nay;  there  is  quite  a  differ- 
ence where  pressed  lupines  are  concerned ;  they  must  be  scalded 
just  seven  times  and  immediately  shelled,  for  if  they  are  not 
immediately  shelled  they  become  putrid;  therefore  to  shell 
them  is  equal  to  separting  trash  from  good  food. 

"  Grinding^  Said  R.  Papa:  To  chop  beets  is  the  same  as 
to  grind.  Splitting  wood  for  kindling  is  the  same  as  grinding. 
Said  R.  Ashi:  Splitting  leather  is  the  same  class  of  work  as 
cutting  by  measure  (if  he  is  particular  about  it). 

"  Kneading,  baking.''  R.  Papa  said:  "  The  Tana  of  the 
Mishna  omitted  the  cooking  of  spices  that  took  place  in  the 
tabernacle  and  instead  of  that  taught  about  baking."  It  is 
because  the  Tana  follows  the  order  of  baking  (first  comes  knead- 
ing, then  baking,  and  cooking  is  included  in  the  latter). 

"  Wool-shearing,  bleachifig."  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  in  the  name 
of  R.  Johanan  said:  Spinning  wool  from  a  live  animal  on  the 
Sabbath  makes  one  liable  for  three  sin-offerings ;  one  for  shear- 
ing, one  for  carding,  and  one  for  spinning.  R.  Kahana,  how- 
ever, said:  This  is  not  the  way  shearing,  carding,  and  spinning 
are  done  (hence  he  is  not  at  all  culpable). 

If  one  plucked  quills,  cut  off  their  tops,  and  singed  them  on 
both  sides,  the  rabbis  taught  that  he  is  liable  for  three  sin- 
offerings. 

"  Tying,  untying."  What  kind  of  tying  and  untying  was 
done  at  the  construction  of  the  tabernacle  ?  Rabha,  others 
say  R.  Ilayi,  said:  This  is  the  way  of  the  (snail)  fishers;  to  untie 
their  nets  from  one  load  and  tie  them  on  another. 

''Sewing  on  with  two  stitches.''  But  two  stitches  do  not 
hold  (hence  it  cannot  be  called  work)  ?     Said  Rabba  b.  b    Hana 


TRACT    SABBATH.  139 

in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  Provided  two  knots  are  made,  one 
at  each  end. 

' '  Tearing  in  order  to  sew  together  with  two  stitches. ' '  Was 
there  any  tearing  done  at  the  tabernacle  ?  Both  Rabba  and 
R.  Zera  said:  When  a  curtain  became  moth-eaten,  they  tore 
out  the  moth-eaten  part  and  sewed  it  together. 

R.  Zutra  b.  Tobiah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  "  To  rip  a 
seam  on  the  Sabbath  makes  one  liable ;  to  learn  from  a  magician 
is  a  sin  involving  capital  punishment ;  one  who  knows  the 
science  of  astronomy  and  does  not  make  use  of  it,  is  not  worth 
being  spoken  of."  What  is  a  magician?  Rabh  says  a  "  wiz- 
ard." Samuel  says  a  "  blasphemer."  R.  Simeon  b.  Pazi  in 
the  name  of  R.  Joshua  b.  Levi  said:  Whoever  knows  the  science 
of  astronomy,  and  does  not  occupy  himself  with  it  is  the  party 
alluded  to  [Isaiah,  v.  12]:  "  But  the  deeds  of  the  Lord  they 
regard  not  and  the  works  of  his  hands  they  behold  not."  Said 
Samuel  b.  Na'hmeni  in  the  name  of  R.  Jonathan:  "  Whence 
the  adduction  that  we  are  bound  to  learn  astronomy  ?"  From 
the  passage  [Deut.  iv.  6]:  "  Keep,  therefore,  and  do  them,  for 
this  is  your  wisdom  and  your  understanding  before  the  eyes  of 
the  nations."  And  what  kind  of  wisdom  is  before  the  eyes  of 
the  nations  ?     You  must  say  that  it  is  astronomy. 

"  Hunting  deer."  The  rabbis  taught:  To  catch  a  slug  and 
squeeze  it  so  that  it  bleed  is  a  transgression  involving  only  a  sin- 
offering.  R.  Jehudah  says,  involving  two  sin-offerings,  for  R. 
Jehudah  holds  that  squeezing  comes  in  the  class  of  threshing, 
but  the  rabbis  told  him  that  squeezing  is  not  threshing.  What 
reason  do  the  rabbis  give  for  their  opinion  ?  Said  Rabha:  Their 
reason  is  that  threshing  can  only  be  applied  to  produce  of  the 
soil. 

"  Slaughtering."  Under  which  category  ?  Rabh  said  "  dye- 
ing," and  Samuel  said  "  taking  life."  Said  Rabh:  "  I  said 
something  which  may  seem  absurd,  and  so  as  to  prevent  future 
generations  from  deriding  me  I  will  give  a  reason  for  what 
I  said:  Butchers  are  in  the  habit  of  coloring  the  throat  of  the 
carcasses  with  blood,  in  order  that  people  may  see  (that  the 
meat  is  still  fresh)  and  be  induced  to  buy." 

"  Salting  the  hide,"  etc.  Is  not  salting  a  hide  preparing  it  ? 
Both  R.  Johanan  and  Resh  Lakish  said:  "  Strike  out  one  of 
them  in  the  Mishna  and  substitute  it  with  *  marking.'  " 

"  Scraping  the  hair  off,''  etc.  R.  Aha  b.  Hanina  said:  To 
polish  a  floor  on  the  Sabbath  is  a  transgression  of  the  same 


I40  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

order  as  scraping  off  the  hair  of  the  hide.  Said  R.  Hyya  b. 
Abba:  R.  Ashi  told  me  three  things  in  the  name  of  R.  Joshua 
b.  Levi:  Sawing  rafters  on  the  Sabbath  (that  they  may  be 
equal  in  size  and  pointed)  makes  one  liable  the  same  as  "  cut- 
ting." Daubing  a  plaster  on  a  piece  of  cloth  makes  one  liable 
the  same  as  "  scraping  hair  off."  Smoothing  a  stone  makes 
one  culpable  of  "  hammering."  R.  Simeon  b.  Kisma  in  the 
name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish,  said:  Painting  pictures  on  ves- 
sels or  blowing  out  glassware  makes  one  culpable  the  same  as 
hammering.  R.  Jehudah  said:  Removing  a  border  from  cloth 
also  makes  one  as  culpable  as  hammering;  but  only  in  case  one 
is  particular  about  having  the  border  remain  on  his  cloth. 

"  Writing  two  letters.''  The  rabbis  taught:  "If  one  wrote 
one  large  letter  instead  of  two  small  ones,  he  is  not  guilty  of 
any  transgression ;  but  to  erase  a  large  letter,  in  the  place  of 
which  two  small  letters  can  be  written,  makes  one  liable  for 
a  sin-offering  (for  the  erasing  is  done  with  the  intent  to  write, 
and  two  small  letters  are  evidently  needed).  Said  R.  Mena'hem 
b.  Jossi:  "  This  is  the  only  case  where  the  law  is  more  rigorous 
with  erasing  than  with  writing." 

"  Buildijig,  demolishing,''  etc.  Both  Rabba  and  R.  Zera 
said:  All  work  which  is  done  in  the  last  stages  is  considered  the 
same  as  hammering  (which  is  generally  the  finishing  work). 

"  These  are  the  principal  acts  of  labor."  "  These,"  to  ex- 
clude a  derivation  of  the  same  kind  as  the  principal  when  it  is 
done  with  the  principal  together,  and  as  to  which  R.  Eliezer 
makes  one  liable  for  the  derivation  also. 

"Less  one,"  to  exclude  the  extension  of  the  warp  or  the  woof, 
which  R.  Jehudah  added  to  the  principal  acts  ;  but  the  rabbis  said  : 
Extending  the  warp  is  included  in  warping  and  extending  the 
woof  is  included  in  weaving. 

MISHNA  ///. :  And  there  is  also  another  rule  which  was  laid 
down :  Whosoever  carries  out  on  the  Sabbath  such  things  as  are 
fit  and  proper  to  be  stored  and  in  such  a  quantity  as  is  usually 
stored,  is  liable ;  but  whatever  is  not  fit  and  proper  to  be  stored, 
nor  in  such  a  quantity  as  is  generally  stored,  only  he  who  would 
store  this  is  liable  (because  the  storing  shows  that  for  him  it  is 
valuable). 

GEMARA:  ''Whatever  is  not  fit  and  proper."  Said  R. 
Elazar :  The  latter  part  of  the  Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with 
R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar,  who  said  in  the  following  Boraitha  :  "  There 
is  a  rule  that  all  which  is  7iot  fit  and  proper  to  be  stored  nor  in 


TRACT    SABBATH.  141 

such  a  quantity  as  is  generally  stored,  if  held  by  one  man  fit  and 
another  man  has  carried  it  out,  the  latter  becomes  Hable  for  the 
intention  of  the  owner." 

MISHNA  IV. :  It  is  forbidden  to  carry  about  chopped  straw 
in  quantities  of  a  cow's  mouthful,  stalks  in  quantities  of  a  camel's 
mouthful,  stubble  in  quantities  of  a  lamb's  mouthful,  herbs  in 
quantities  of  a  kid's  mouthful,  leek  and  onion  leaves,  if  fresh, 
equal  in  size  to  a  dried  fig,  and  if  dry  in  quantities  of  a  kid's 
mouthful.  The  different  kinds  of  fodder  are,  however,  not  to  be 
counted  together,  as  the  prescribed  quantities  are  not  equal  for  all. 

GEMARA:  ''Chopped straw r  What  kind?  Said  R.  Jehudah: 
"  Pease  stalks."  When  Rabhin  came  to  Babylon  he  said  thus: 
There  is  no  diversity  of  opinion  concerning  the  carrying  out  of 
straw  in  quantities  of  a  cow's  mouthful  for  a  camel,  as  all  agree 
that  in  such  a  case  one  is  liable ;  the  point  of  their  differing  is 
concerning  the  carrying  out  of  stalks  (which  is  not  fit  food  for  a 
cow)  in  quantities  of  a  cow's  mouthful  for  a  cow.  R.  Johanan 
frees  him,  as  he  holds  that  unfit  food  cannot  be  regarded  as  nu- 
trition ;  and  Resh  Lakish  makes  him  liable,  as  he  holds  that  even 
such  is  considered  nutrition. 

''Stubble  in  quantities  of  a  lamb's  mouthful. ' '  But  does  not  a 
Boraitha  state  "  the  size  of  a  dried  fig"?  Both  quantities  are 
equal. 

"Leek  and  onion  leaves,  if  fresh,''  etc.  Said  R.  Jossi  b.  Hanina: 
Inferior  food  is  not  to  be  counted  in  with  superior  (in  order  to 
make  out  the  prescribed  quantity).  Superior  food,  however,  may 
be  counted  with  the  inferior  (in  order  to  complete  the  prescribed 
quantity). 

MISHNA  V. :  The  carrying  out  of  an  article  of  food  the  size 
of  a  dried  fig  makes  one  liable.  And  the  different  kinds  of  them 
are  to  be  counted  together,  for  the  prescribed  quantity  is  the 
same  for  all  kinds,  with  the  exception  of  husks,  kernels,  and 
stalks ;  likewise  bran,  both  coarse  and  fine.  R.  Jehudah  says 
that  the  husks  of  lentils  are  not  excepted,  because  they  are  boiled 
with  the  lentils  and  are  counted  in  the  same  (as  food). 

GEMARA  :  "Except  bran,"  etc.  Is  not  fine  as  well  as  coarse 
bran  to  be  counted  in  (the  same  as  food)?  Is  there  not  a  Mishna 
concerning  the  separation  of  the  first  dough,  that  one  is  bound  to 
separate  the  first  dough  made  of  flour  mixed  with  its  fine  or 
coarse  bran  ?  Answered  Abayi :  "  This  is  no  contradiction.  Poor 
people  only  generally  use  such  mixed  flour  (when  Sabbath  is  con- 
rerned  something  possessing  real  value  is  always  spoken  of)." 


142  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  The  husks  of  lentils  are  not  excepted,"  etc.  Husks  of  len- 
tils only,  and  not  of  beans  ?  Did  not  a  Boraitha  state  that  R. 
Jehudah  said,  "  husks  of  beans  and  lentils  "  ?  This  presents  no 
difficulty.  The  Mishna  refers  to  husks  of  new  lentils  and  the 
Boraitha  refers  to  old  lentils  and  beans.  And  why  not  old  ones  ? 
Said  R.  Abuhu  :  Because  they  (the  husks  of  lentils  and  beans)  are 
black  and  when  dished  up  look  like  flies  in  a  bowl  (they  are  not 
eaten  with  the  food  and  therefore  are  not  counted  in). 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  PRESCRIBED  QUANTITIES  OF  VICT- 
UALS AND  BEVERAGES  WHICH  MUST  NOT  BE  CARRIED  ABOUT  ON 
THE    SABBATH. 

MISHNA  /,  :  The  prescribed  quantities  (of  victuals  and  bever- 
ages) prohibited  to  be  carried  about  on  the  Sabbath  (are  as  fol- 
lows) :  Sufficient  wine  in  a  goblet,  which  with  the  addition  of  a 
certain  quantity  of  water  would  make  a  full  goblet  of  wine  (fit  to 
drink)  ;  *  milk  to  the  quantity  of  a  mouthful,  honey  sufficient  to 
cover  a  wound  with,  oil  sufficient  to  anoint  a  small  limb  with,  and 
water  in  quantities  sufficient  for  a  medical  bath  for  the  eyes.  For 
all  other  liquids  and  also  of  whatever  can  be  poured  out,  the  pre- 
scribed quantity  is  a  quarter  of  a  lug  (about  a  quart).  R.  Simeon 
says  :  The  prescribed  quantities  for  the  liquids  enumerated  in  this 
Mishna  are  also  a  quarter  of  a  lug,  and  the  various  prescribed 
quantities  specified  apply  only  to  those  who  store  such  liquids. 

GEMARA:  A  Boraitha,  in  addition  to  this  Mishna,  states: 
"  The  quantity  which  suffices  for  a  good  goblet  of  wine."  What 
is  to  be  understood  by  a  good  goblet  ?  The  goblet  used  in  bene- 
diction f  after  meals. 

R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  R.  Abuhu  said  :  "  A  goblet  used  at 
benediction  after  meals  must  contain  no  less  than  a  fourth  of  a 
quarter  lug  (of  pure  wine),  so  that  when  mixed  with  water  the 
prescribed  quantity  (a  quarter  lug)  will  be  made."  Said  Rabha : 
We  have  learned  this  in  our  Mishna  :  "  Sufficient  wine  in  a  gob- 
let, which  with  addition  of  water  would  make  a  full  goblet " — 
commented  on  by  the  Boraitha  to  mean  "  which  would  make  a 
good  goblet."  From  the  close  of  the  Mishna  we  learn  :  "  For  all 
other  liquids  the  prescribed  quantity  is  a  quarter  of  a  lug."  [And] 
he  is  in  accordance  with  his  theory  elsewhere,  that  wine  which  is 
not  strong  enough  to  be  mixed  with  three  parts  of  water  is  not 

*  The  wines  used  in  Palestine  were  so  strong  that  they  had  to  be  mixed  with 
water  in  order  to  make  them  fit  to  drink. 

f  At  the  benediction  after  meals  a  goblet  possessing  certain  qualities  and  which  is 
called  a  goblet  of  benediction  must  be  used,  as  ordained  in  the  Tract  Benedictions. 


144  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

considered  wine  at  all.  Said  Abayi :  "There  are  two  objections 
to  this :  Firstly,  there  is  a  Mishna  that  wine  fit  to  drink  is  such 
as  has  been  mixed  with  two-thirds  water,  like  the  wine  of  Sharon  ; 
secondly,  do  you  think  that  the  water  in  the  pitcher  (intended  for 
mixing  with  the  wine)  is  counted  in?"  Rejoined  Rabha  :  The 
first  objection  does  not  hold  good,  as  Sharon  wine  is  an  exception, 
which  although  w^eak  is  nevertheless  good  ;  or  it  may  be  that  there 
the  particularity  is  the  color,  which  is  not  changed  by  an  addition 
of  two-thirds;  but  concerning  taste,  I  say  that  only  one  which 
can  bear  three-fourths  of  water  is  considered.  As  to  the  second 
objection,  concerning  water  in  the  pitcher,  it  is  also  nothing  as 
concerning  Sabbath.  The  quality  and  not  the  quantity  is  consid- 
ered, and  the  wine  in  question  is  of  that  quality. 

There  is  a  Boraitha  that  the  prescribed  quantity  for  the  ex- 
tract of  wine  is  the  size  of  an  olive.  So  said  R.  Nathan.  And 
R.  Joseph  said  that  R.  Jehudah  agrees  with  him  in  a  Mishna,  Tract 
Nidah  (which  will  be  translated  there). 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  prescribed  quantity  for  animal  milk 
is  the  equivalent  of  a  mouthful ;  for  human  milk  and  the  white  of 
an  egg,  as  much  as  is  used  for  the  preparation  of  a  salve  for  a  sore 
eye ;  when  mixed  with  water,  the  prescribed  quantity  is  as  much 
as  is  used  to  bathe  both  eyes  with. 

^^ Honey  sufficient  to  cover  a  ivound  with.'"  A  Boraitha  states: 
"  Sufificient  to  cover  the  mouth  of  a  wound  with." 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  The  Holy  One,  blessed 
be  He,  has  created  nothing  useless  in  the  world.  He  created  the 
snail  as  a  remedy  for  a  sore,  the  fly  for  the  sting  of  a  wasp,  the 
mosquito  for  the  bite  of  a  serpent,  the  serpent  for  the  mange,  and 
the  lizard  for  the  bite  of  a  scorpion. 

The  rabbis  taught :  There  are  five  terrors  through  which  the 
strong  succumb  to  the  weak.  The  Maphgia  terrorizes  the  lion,* 
the  mosquito  the  elephant,  the  lizard  the  scorpion,  the  swallow 
the  eagle,  and  the  kilbith  (a  small  fish)  the  whale.  Said  R. 
Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  Is  any  similarity  to  be  found  in 
the  Scripture?  [Amos,  v.  9]  :  "  That  causeth  wasting  to  prevail 
against  the  strong." 

R.  Zera  once  met  R.  Jehudah  standing  at  the  door  of  his 
(R,  Jehudah's)  father-in-law  in  a  very  cheerful  mood,  and  dis- 
posed  to  answer  a  whole  world  full   of  questions.      He  asked 

*  Maphgia  is  a  species  of  insect,  unl<nown  to  us  at  the  present  day,  of  which 
Rashi  said  that  it  was  a  small  animal  whose  voice  was  so  strong  that  when  a  lion  hears 
it,  he  is  afraid  of  it,  taking  it  for  a  very  great  animal. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  145 

him:  "  What  is  the  reason  that  (in  a  flock)  the  she-goats  gen- 
erally go  ahead  of  the  sheep  ?  "  And  he  answered:  "  In  accord- 
ance with  the  Creation:  At  first  darkness,  then  light  "  (she-goats 
are  generally  dark  and  lambs  [or  sheep]  white).  "  Why  are  she- 
goats  not  covered  with  a  tail  ?  "  asked  the  former  again.  And  he 
answered:  "  Those  who  cover  us  are  (in  turn)  covered,  and  those 
that  do  not  cover  us  are  not  covered."  (Because  sheep  provide 
us  with  wool,  they  are  also  provided  with  cover.)  "  Why  has  a 
camel  a  short  tail  ?  "  "  Because  it  feeds  on  thorns  (in  order  that 
the  thorns  may  not  catch  in  its  tail)." 

And  "  Why  has  an  ox  a  long  tail  ? "  "  Because  he  grazes  in 
plains  and  miust  protect  himself  from  the  gnats."  "  Why  are 
the  feelers  of  a  locust  soft  ?"  "  Because  the  locusts  swarm  in 
fields;  were  their  feelers  hard,  the  locusts  would  be  blinded  by 
losing  them  in  knocking  against  trees,  for  Samuel  said,  all  that 
is  necessary  to  blind  a  locust  is  to  tear  off  his  feelers."  "  What 
is  the  reason  that  the  lower  eyelids  of  a  hen  are  turned  up  (and 
cover  the  upper  eyelids)  ?"  "  Because  a  hen  soars  to  her  roost 
and  (in  a  house  full  of  smoke)  she  might  be  blinded  by  the  smoke 
from  below." 

The  rabbis  taught  the  following:  "  Three  creatures  grow 
stronger  as  they  grow  older,  viz.:  Fishes,  serpents,  and  swine." 

"  Oil  sufficient  to  anoint  a  small  limb  with,''  i.e.,  a  little  finger. 
At  the  school  of  R.  Janai  it  was  thus  explained:  "  It  means  the 
smallest  limb  of  a  one-day-old  infant."  And  the  same  was  said 
by  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar. 

"  Water  sufficient  for  a  medical  bath  for  the  eyes.''  Said 
Abayi:  Let  us  see!  Of  an  article  which  is  very  often  used  for 
one  purpose  and  seldom  for  another,  the  rabbis  always  leniently 
permitted  the  maximum  quantity  to  be  used,  as  the  prescribed 
quantity,  of  the  article  much  in  use.  Again,  when  an  article  is 
used  alike  for  several  purposes,  the  rabbis  restrict  the  prescribed 
quantity  to  its  minimum:  (to  be  more  explicit)  wine  is  frequently 
used  as  a  beverage  and  only  at  times  as  a  medicament ;  hence  the 
rabbis  regard  it  solely  as  a  beverage  (and  determine  the  maximum 
quantity)  ;  the  same  is  the  case  with  milk ;  honey,  however,  which 
is  used  to  a  greater  extent  as  a  medicine  than  for  nutritive  pur- 
poses, is  regarded  as  a  medicine  and  therefore  restricted  to  the 
prescribed  quantity  for  medicines  (which  is  a  smaller  quantity 
than  a  beverage).  What  is  the  reason,  then,  that  the  rabbis  re- 
strict water,  which  is  certainly  more  of  a  beverage  than  a  medi- 
cament, to  the  minimum  quantity?  Rabha  answered:  They 
VOL.  I. — 10 


146  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

hold  with  the  opinion  of  Samuel,  who  declared  that  all  liquids 
used  as  medicine  for  the  eyes  inflame  and  blind,  except  water, 
which  soothes  and  does  not  blind  (and  in  this  case  the  Mishna 
has  reference  to  one  who  carried  about  water  on  the  Sabbath  as 
a  medicament  for  the  eyes). 

For  all  other  liquids,  the  prescribed  quantity  is  a  quarter  of  a 
lug.''  The  rabbis  taught:  For  blood  and  all  other  liquids  the 
prescribed  quantity  is  a  quarter  of  a  lug.  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar 
said  the  prescribed  quantity  for  blood  is  as  much  as  is  used  to 
apply  to  one  eye ;  because  that  quantity  is  used  when  the  eye  is 
afflicted  with  a  cataract. 

All  these  prescribed  quantities  apply  only  to  those  who  carry 
(the  victuals  or  beverages)  about.  To  those,  however,  who  store 
them  (the  victuals  or  beverages)  the  carrying  of  even  the  least 
imaginable  quantity  is  prohibited  (because  from  his  storing  them 
we  see  that  he  considers  them  valuable) ;  but  R.  Simeon  says  all 
these  prescribed  quantities  apply  to  such  as  stored  (victuals  and 
beverages  and  hence  considered  them  valuable);  but  as  for  per- 
sons who  only  carried  them  out,  for  all  beverages  (whether  used 
also  for  medical  purposes  or  not)  if  carried  out  in  any  quantities 
less  than  a  quarter  of  a  lug  there  is  no  culpability. 

The  former  teacher  said  that  "  those  prescribed  quantities 
only  refer  to  those  who  carry  out, ' '  but  to  ' '  those  who  store  them 
the  carrying  of  even  the  least  imaginable  quantity  is  prohibited." 
Is  the  one  who  stores  not  also  a  carrier  (he  is  culpable  for  carry- 
ing and  not  for  storing)  ? 

Answered  Abayi:  The  Boraitha  treats  of  a  case  where  a  mas- 
ter ordered  his  retainer  to  clear  off  the  table.  If  the  retainer 
removed  something  of  value  to  everybody  from  the  table,  it 
constituted  a  quantity  which  must  not  be  carried  about  on  the 
Sabbath.  If  the  thing  was  of  value  only  to  the  master  and 
the  retainer  carried  it  out,  he  (the  retainer)  is  culpable,  in  spite 
of  the  fact  that  the  thing  was  of  value  to  his  master  alone. 
(Hence  he  is  called  one  who  stores,  and  not  a  carrier)  for  it  signi- 
fies that  the  thing  is  worth  storing. 

Again,  the  former  teacher  said:  "  And  the  sages  agree  with 
R.  Simeon  that  the  prescribed  quantity  of  slops  is  a  quarter  of  a 
lug."  Of  what  use  are  slops  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah:  "  To  prepare 
mortar  with."  But  were  we  not  taught  that  the  prescribed  quan- 
tity for  mortar  is  only  as  much  as  suffices  to  make  the  mouth  of 
a  bellows-pipe  with  ?  Aye,  but  for  the  purpose  of  preparing 
mortar,  a  man  would  not  trouble  himself  to  carry  out  so  small 


TRACT   SABBATH.  147 

a  quantity  as  is  sufficient  to  make  a  mouth  of  a  bellows-pipe, 
hence  a  quarter  of  a  lug  would  be  the  least  that  would  be  carried 
out  to  make  mortar  with. 

MISHNA  //. :  The  prescribed  quantity  for  rope  is  as  much 
as  suffices  to  make  a  handle  for  a  basket ;  for  reeds,  as  much  as 
suffices  to  hang  a  fine  or  coarse  sieve  thereon:  R.  Jehudah  says : 
As  much  as  is  sufficient  to  take  the  measure  of  a  child's  shoe ;  for 
paper,  as  much  as  suffices  to  write  a  toll-bill  on — a  toll-bill  itself 
must  7iot  be  carried  out;  the  prescribed  quantity  for  paper  that 
has  been  erased  is  as  much  as  will  wrap  the  top  of  a  perfume 
bottle.  The  prescribed  quantity  for  vellum  is  as  much  as  suffices 
for  the  covering  of  an  amulet;  for  parchment,  as  much  as 
suffices  for  the  writing  of  the  smallest  portion  of  the  phylacteries, 
which  is  "  Hear,  O  Israel  "  ;  for  ink,  as  much  as  is  necessary  for 
the  writing  of  two  letters  (characters) ;  for  paint,  as  much  as  will 
paint  one  eye.  The  prescribed  quantity  for  (bird)  lime  is  as  much 
as  will  suffice  to  put  on  a  lime  twig;  for  pitch  or  sulphur,  as 
much  as  will  cover  a  hole  (in  a  quicksilver  tube);  for  wax, 
as  much  as  will  fill  up  a  small  leakage  (in  a  utensil) ;  for  loam,  as 
much  as  suffices  to  make  an  orifice  for  a  pair  of  bellows  used  by 
goldsmiths;  R.  Jehudah  says  the  prescribed  quantity  for  loam 
is  as  much  as  will  make  a  stand  for  a  goldsmith's  crucible;  for 
clay,  as  much  as  will  cover  the  mouth  of  a  goldsmith's  crucible; 
for  lime,  as  much  as  will  cover  the  little  finger  of  a  maiden ;  R. 
Jehudah  says  for  lime  the  prescribed  quantity  is  as  much  as  will 
cover  the  temple  of  a  maiden;  R.  Nehemiah  says  as  much  as 
will  cover  the  back  part  of  a  maiden's  temple. 

GEMARA:  "  For  paper,  as  much  as  suffices  to  write  a  toll-bill 
on.''  There  is  a  Boraitha:  "  The  legal  size  of  a  toll-bill  is  a  piece 
of  paper  large  enough  to  contain  two  letters."  Is  this  not  con- 
tradictory to  the  Boraitha  which  says  that  the  carrying  out  of  a 
piece  of  blank  paper  large  enough  for  two  letters  of  ordinary  size 
to  be  written  on  makes  one  liable  ?  Answered  R.  Shesheth: 
"  The  two  letters  referred  to  by  the  Mishna  are  the  letters  used 
by  the  toll-master  (usually  extra  large  letters).  Rabha,  how- 
ever, said  that  the  piece  of  paper  referred  to  is  large  enough  for 
two  letters  and  has  a  margin  by  which  it  can  be  held. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  carry  out  on  the  Sabbath  an  un- 
paid promissory  note  he  is  liable,  but  not  so  for  a  paid  one.  But 
R.  Jehudah  said :  The  same  is  the  case  with  a  paid-up  note,  for 
its  value  lies  therein,  that  the  owner  may  show  it  to  a  prospective 
creditor  in  order  to  prove  promptness  of  former  payments.    What 


148  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

is  the  point  of  their  differing  ?  Said  R.  Joseph:  "  They  differ 
if  it  is  allowed  to  preserve  a  paid  note.  According  to  the  rabbis 
it  is  prohibited,  and  according  to  R.  Jehudah  it  may  be  done.* 

"  For  vellum  is  as  much  as  suffices  to  make  a  cover  for  an 
amulet.''  Rabha  questioned  R.  Na'hman:  "  Of  what  size  ?"  and 
the  latter  answered :  "  As  we  were  taught  in  the  Mishna,  as  much 
as  will  suffice  to  make  a  cover  for  an  amulet."  And  what  is  the 
size  in  regard  to  tanning  ?  The  same  quantity.  And  where  do 
you  take  this  from  ?  From  the  Mishna  farther  on,  that  gives  the 
same  quantity  for  wool  preparing  to  be  woven  and  for  already 
woven.  The  same  is  here  as  it  is  for  tanning;  the  quantity  is 
the  same  as  if  already  tanned.  (The  further  discussion  is  re- 
peated in  many  places,  and  each  is  translated  in  its  proper  place.) 

"  Parchment  as  much  as  suffices  to  write  thereon  the  smallest 
portion,''  etc.  Is  this  not  a  contradiction  to  the  Boraitha  which 
teaches  that  the  prescribed  quantity  for  parchment  and  double 
parchment  (So-$icro't)  is  as  much  as  suffices  to  write  a  Mezuzah 
(inscription  on  the  door-posts)  on  ?  The  Mezuzah  mentioned  in 
the  Boraitha  refers  to  the  Mezuzah  contained  in  the  phylacteries. 
Does  the  Boraitha  call  phylacteries  Mezuzah  ?  Yea,  it  does  else- 
where. But  since  the  latter  part  of  the  Boraitha  teaches  explicitly 
that  the  prescribed  quantity  for  parchment  is  as  much  as  is  re- 
quired for  writing  the  smallest  portion  of  the  phylacteries,  which 
is  "  Hear,  O  Israel,"  is  it  not  to  be  assumed  that  in  the  former 
part  of  the  Boraitha  a  Mezuzah  proper  is  meant  ?  Read:  What 
is  the  prescribed  quantity  for  parchment  and  double  parchment  ? 
For  the  latter  as  much  as  is  required  for  the  writing  of  a  Mezuzah ; 
and  the  former,  for  the  writing  of  the  smallest  portion  of  the 
phylacteries,  which  is  "  Hear,  O  Israel." 

Rabh  said:  "  Double  parchment  is  the  same  as  parchment. 
The  same  as  we  may  write  the  portions  of  the  phylacteries  on 
parchment,  so  may  we  also  write  them  on  double  parchment." 
Were  we  not  taught  *' parchment  sufficient,"  etc.,  which  cer- 
tainly does  not  mean  double  parchment  ?  Nay,  it  is  only  a 
better  observance  to  write  on  parchment  than  on  double  parch- 
ment. 

"  For  inky*  etc.  A  Boraitha  adds:  The  prescribed  quantity 
for  dry  ink  is  as  much  as  will  suffice  for  the  writing  of  two  let- 
ters; for  prepared  ink  as  much  as  a  quill  or  stub  will  require  to 
write  the  two  letters  with.     Said  Rabha:  For  carrying  out  suffi- 

*  Abayi  and  Rabba  also  discuss  the  same  note,  but  this  is  repeated  in  the  Third 
Gate,  in  whose  translation  we  are  now  engaged,  and  is,  therefore,  omitted  here. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  149 

dent  ink  for  two  letters  and  writing  the  two  letters  while  carry- 
ing the  ink,  one  is  culpable ;  for  the  writing  is  equivalent  to 
depositing  a  thing  in  a  place.  But  for  carrying  out  sufificient  ink 
for  one  letter  only,  and  writing  that  letter  while  carrying  the 
ink,  afterward  carrying  out  another  quantity  of  ink  sufficient  for 
one  letter  and  writing  the  other  letter  while  carrying  the  ink, 
one  is  not  culpable ;  for  by  the  time  the  second  letter  was  written 
(the  ink  of  the  first  letter  dried  out  and)  the  prescribed  quantity 
of  ink  was  not  visible.  Again  Rabha  said:  For  carrying  out 
food  to  the  size  of  one-half  of  a  dried  fig,  laying  it  down,  and 
then  carrying  out  another  quantity  of  like  size  (one  is  not  cul- 
pable), for  it  is  considered  as  if  the  first  quantity  had  been  con- 
sumed by  fire.  But  why  should  it  be  thus  considered  ?  Is  it  not 
lying  there  yet  ?  He  m^ans  to  say:  If  one  picked  up  the  first 
before  he  laid  down  the  second,  the  first  is  to  be  considered  as  if 
consumed  by  fire,  and  hence  one  is  not  culpable. 

"  For  paint,'"  etc.  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  people  never  dye  one 
eye  only  ?  Said  R,  Huna:  Modest  women  veil  one  eye  and  only 
paint  the  other.  To  this  explanation  some  one  objected,  viz. : 
For  paint  as  a  remedy  the  prescribed  quantity  is  as  much  as  will 
dye  one  eye,  said  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar,  but  as  a  means  for 
beautifying  the  prescribed  quantity  is  as  much  as  will  dye  two 
eyes.  Hillel,  the  son  of  R.  Samuel  b.  Nahmeni,  explained  it  by 
saying  that  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  referred  to  country  damsels  who 
dye  both  eyes. 

' '  For  bird  lime  as  much  as  is  sufficient  to  put  on  a  lime  twig. ' ' 
There  is  a  Boraitha:  As  much  as  is  sufficient  to  put  on  a  twig 
for  the  purpose  of  catching  birds. 

"  For pitc/i  and sulp/iur,"  etc.  A  Boraitha  states:  Sufficient 
to  fill  up  a  hole  in  a  quicksilver  tube. 

"  For  loam,"  etc.  A  Boraitha  states:  Sufificient  to  fill  up  the 
cracks  in  a  small  stove. 

"  For  clay,"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  prohibited  to  carry 
out  hair  for  the  purpose  of  mixing  it  with  clay  used  to  cover  a 
goldsmith's  bellows-pipe  with. 

"  For  lime,"  etc.  A  Boraitha  states:  To  cover  the  smallest 
finger  of  a  damsel.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh: 
Daughters  of  Israel,  when  they  become  of  age,  and  they  have 
not  yet  developed  the  signs  of  puberty,  the  poor  smear  their 
bodies  with  lime,  the  rich  ones  with  fine  meal,  and  princesses 
with  myrrh  oil.  What  is  myrrh  oil  ?  fftanrt].  And  R.  Jere- 
miah b.  Aba  said  :    Olive  oil  from  olives  Avhich  were  only  one- 


150  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

third  ripe.  There  is  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jehudah  said:  It  is  called 
(in  Menachoth)  anphiknun  {ojxcpaviov') ;  and  why  do  they  anoint 
with  this  ?  Because  it  removes  the  hair  and  makes  the  com- 
plexion clear.  R.  Bibi  had  such  a  daughter  and  he  anointed  her 
with  the  same,  each  member  of  her  body  separately;  and  finally 
one  of  the  prominent  men  paid  him  four  hundred  zuz  and 
married  her.  He  had  a  Gentile  neighbor  who  also  had  such  a 
daughter,  and  he  anointed  her  whole  body  at  one  time,  and  she 
died;  said  he:  "  R.  Bibi  has  murdered  my  daughter. "  Said  R. 
Na'hman:  "  R.  Bibi,  who  used  to  drink  beer,  his  daughter 
needed  the  anointing,  but  our  daughters  do  not  need  it,  for  we 
do  not  drink  beer." 

"  As  much  as  is  sufficient  to  cover, ''^  etc.  What  is  meant  by 
Kalkub  and  Andiphi  ?  Said  Rabh:  The  temple,  and  the 
hair  between  it  and  the  ear.  Are  we  to  understand  from  the 
Mishna  that  the  prescribed  quantity  permitted  by  R.  Jehudah 
is  larger  than  that  of  the  rabbis  ?  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  the  rabbis 
allow  the  larger  prescribed  quantity  ?  Aye;  R.  Jehudah  allows 
a  larger  quantity  than  R.  Nehemiah,  but  still  a  smaller  quantity 
than  the  rabbis.  Or  it  is  possible  that  an  Andiphi  means  a  fore- 
head, from  the  following  narration:  "  It  happened  that  a  Galilean 
once  came  to  Babylon  and  was  requested  to  lecture  on  meta- 
physics. The  Galilean  consented  and  began:  I  will  interpret  to 
you  something  in  the  style  of  R.  Nehemiah.  Meanwhile  a  wasp 
flew  out  of  the  wall,  stung  him  on  the  Andiphi  (forehead)  and 
the  Galilean  died  on  the  spot.  It  was  said  that  he  died  a  merited 
death."* 

MISHNA  ///. :  For  sealing-wax  the  prescribed  quantity  is  as 
much  as  is  required  for  the  sealing  of  a  bale  of  goods,  so  is  the 
decree  of  R.  Aqiba;  the  sages,  however,  say  for  the  sealing 
of  a  letter.  For  dung  or  fine  sand  as  much  as  is  required  to 
fertilize  (the  soil  around)  a  cabbage  stalk,  according  to  R.  Aqiba, 
and  to  the  sages  as  much  as  is  required  to  fertilize  (the  soil 
around)  a  leek  stalk.  For  coarse  sand  as  much  as  is  required 
to  fill  a  trowel,  for  reed  as  much  as  is  required  to  make  a  writing- 
pen  from,  or  should  it  be  thick  or  split,  as  much  as  is  required 
to  fry  the  softest  beaten  egg  with,  (which)  mixed  with  oil,  (lies) 
in  a  hot  shell. 

GEMARA:  "  Sufficient  to  Jill  a  trozvel.'*  A  Boraitha  states: 
(For  coarse  sand  the  prescribed  quantity  is)  as  much  as  is  required 

*  A  Mishna  teaches  elsewhere  that  it  is  a  sin  to  lecture  on  metaphysics,  outside  of 
the  university. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  151 

to  fill  the  trowel  of  a  plasterer.  Who  is  the  Tana  that  holds  that 
sand  is  an  improvement  on  plaster  ?  Said  R.  Hisda:  R.  Jehudah 
of  a  Boraitha  (Baba  Bathra,  60b) ;  Rabha,  however,  said  it  may  be 
also  in  accordance  with  the  rabbis,  as  they  hold  that  the  spoiling 
(of  the  whiteness)  of  the  plaster  (through  the  admixture  of  sand) 
is  an  improvement  of  its  durability. 

"  For  reed  as  much  as  is  required  to  make  a  writing-pen.' '  A 
Boraitha  teaches:  A  pen  that  reaches  the  joints  of  the  fingers. 

"  Or  should  it  be  thick.''  A  Boraitha  teaches:  To  fry  a 
beaten  egg  mixed  with  oil.  Said  Mar  b.  Rabhina  to  his  son: 
"  Didst  thou  ever  hear  what  is  understood  by  the  softest  egg  ?  " 
He  answered  that  R.  Shesheth  said  it  was  a  hen's  ^%%.  Why 
does  the  Mishna  call  it  a  light  (soft)  egg  ?  Because  the  sages 
found  that  no  eggs  are  cooked  as  quickly  as  pullets'  eggs. 
Why  is  it  that  all  other  prescribed  quantities  prohibited  to  be 
carried  out  on  the  Sabbath  are  of  the  size  of  a  dried  fig,  and  here 
the  quantity  is  of  the  size  of  an  egg  ?  Answered  R.  Na'hman: 
"  Even  here  is  meant  the  quantity  of  a  dried  fig  from  an  egg." 

MISHNA  IV. :  The  quantity  of  a  bone  is  that  large  enough 
to  be  made  into  a  spoon — R.  Jehudah  says  large  enough  to  be 
made  into  a  key ;  glass  of  sufificient  size  to  be  used  for  scraping 
off  the  points  of  a  weaver's  spindles;  a  splinter  or  a  stone  large 
enough  to  throw  at  a  bird — R.  Elazar  b.  Jacob  says  to  throw  at 
an  animal. 

GEMARA  :  Is  it  to  be  understood  from  the  Mishna  that  the 
prescribed  quantity  allowed  by  R.  Jehudah  is  larger  than  that 
allowed  by  the  rabbis  ?  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  the  rabbis  allow  the 
larger  ?     Said  Ulla:  (R.  Jehudah  refers  to)  the  tooth  of  a  key. 

"  Glass  of  stifficient  size,"  etc.  A  Boraitha  states:  Sufificient 
glass  to  cut  two  threads  at  once. 

"A  splinter,'"  etc.  Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan :  "Provided  it  is  large  enough  to  hurt."  But  how 
large  should  it  be  ?  R.  Elazar  b.  Jacob  teaches  in  a  Boraitha: 
The  weight  of  ten  zuz. 

Zunin  once  entered  the  college  and  questioned  the  teachers. 
"  What  is  the  prescribed  quantity  for  gravel  used  in  privy  for 
toilet  purposes?"  He  was  answered:  "The  equivalent  in 
quantity  to  the  size  of  an  olive,  a  nut,  or  an  egg."  Said  he: 
"  It  would  then  be  necessary  to  carry  along  a  scale."  So  they 
deliberated,  and  decided  that  the  quantity  should  be  a  handful. 

Rabba  b.  R.  Shilla  asked  of  R.  Hisda:  "Is  it  permitted  to 
carry  up  gravel  to  the  roof  (for  the  purpose  cited  above,  as  it  is 


152  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

extra  trouble,  which  is  prohibited  on  the  Sabbath)  ? ' '  He  an- 
swered:  "Precious  is  the  honor  of  man.  For  honor's  sake, 
even  a  direct  scriptural  commandment  may  be  circumvened !  " 

Said  R.  Johanan  :  It  is  forbidden  to  use  fragments  of  earthen- 
ware for  toilet  purposes  (after  doing  one's  necessities)  on  the 
Sabbath.  What  is  the  reason  ?  Is  it  to  say  because  it  is  dan- 
gerous, then  it  should  be  forbidden  also  on  week  days;  or  is  it  to 
say  because  of  witchcraft,  it  would  also  be  prohibited  on  week 
days  ?  What  then  is  the  reason  ?  Is  it  because  it  may  remove 
the  hair  (from  the  posterior)  ?  Would  this  not  be  an  act  per- 
formed without  intention  (and  work  done  unintentionally,  he  is 
of  the  opinion  is  permissible)  ?  R.  Nathan  b,  Ashia  answered : 
A  great  man  made  the  assertion ;  we  have  to  find,  therefore,  a 
reason  for  it.  There  is  no  doubt  whatever  that  fragments  of 
earthenware  are  prohibited  to  be  used  on  week  days,  when  some 
other  things  can  easily  be  obtained ;  but  on  Sabbath,  if  nothing 
else  happens  to  be  on  hand,  nor  may  be  bought,  the  fragments 
might  be  considered  as  utensils;  and,  lest  one  might  be  inclined 
to  think  that  for  this  reason  they  would  be  permitted  to  be  used, 
he  informs  us  that  they  are  not.  Can  witchcraft  be  exercised 
through  the  agency  of  fragments?  Aye;  for  the  following 
proves  it : 

R.  Hisda  and  Rabba  b.  R.  Hana  once  travelled  in  a  ship, 
and  a  matron  who  wanted  to  go  on  the  same  ship  asked  their 
permission  to  sit  down  near  them,  which  they  refused.  She 
pronounced  a  certain  word  and  the  ship  stood  still,  but  they  in 
turn  pronounced  a  certain  word  and  the  ship  moved  on.  She 
then  said:  "  It  grieves  me  sorely  that  I  cannot  inflict  some  pun- 
ishment on  you,  seeing  that  you  use  no  fragments  for  toilet  pur- 
poses, nor  do  you  kill  the  vermin  in  garments,  nor  do  you  pull 
out  vegetables  from  a  bundle  (but  cut  the  bundle  first). ' '  (Hence 
it  may  be  seen  that  fragments  can  be  used  as  a  means  for  the 
exercise  of  witchcraft.) 

R.  Huna  said  to  his  son  Rabba:  Why  do  you  not  go  more 
frequently  to  R.  Hisda,  who  expounds  the  law  so  pointedly  ? 
Answered  the  son  :  "  Of  what  use  would  it  be?  He  never  taught 
me  but  mere  worldly  knowledge,  such  as,  for  instance  :  Not  to  sit 
down  to  excrementize  with  a  jerk  nor  to  force  myself  too  much, 
lest  the  intestines  come  out  and  endanger  life."  R.  Huna  then 
rejoined:  "  Thou  sayest  '  mere  worldly  knowledge.'  He  is  in- 
terested in  the  life  of  the  people,  and  you  call  it  mere  worldly 
knowledge.     So  much  the  more  should  you  go  to  him." 


TRACT    SABBATH.  153 

R,  Hisda  and  Rabhina  differ  as  to  the  consequences  of  one 
withholding  to  perform  his  necessities.  One  is  of  the  opinion 
that  foul  breath  is  the  result,  while  the  other  holds  that  the  entire 
body  assumes  a  bad  odor.  The  opinion  of  the  latter  is  sup- 
ported by  the  following  Boraitha:  "  He  who  takes  nourishment 
while  in  need  of  performing  his  necessities  is  compared  to  a  stove 
in  which  a  fire  was  built  without  previously  removing  the  ashes, 
which  is  invariably  the  cause  of  a  bad  smell.  One  who  feels  like 
performing  his  necessities,  but  cannot  do  so,  R.  Hisda  advises 
that  he  keep  on  sitting  down  and  getting  up  until  able.  R. 
Hanan  from  Neherdai  advises  him  to  look  for  another  place,  but 
the  rabbis  say  the  sole  remedy  is  to  think  of  nothing  else." 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  who  is  about  to  eat  a  hearty  meal 
should  walk  ten  times  four  ells  or  four  times  ten  ells,  then  per- 
form a  (natural)  necessity,  and  after  that  go  in  and  sit  down  to 
the  meal. 

MISHNA  V. :  The  prescribed  quantity  of  fragments  (of 
earthenware)  is  the  size  of  such  as  are  placed  between  two 
boards,  is  the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah.  R.  Meir  says,  of  a  size 
sufficient  to  stir  a  fire  with.  R.  Jossi,  of  a  size  to  receive  (hold) 
a  quarter  of  a  lug.  Said  R.  Meir :  Although  no  positive  proof  for 
my  assertion  can  be  found  in  the  Scripture,  still  a  vague  refer- 
ence can  be  deduced  from  the  passage  [Isaiah,  xxx.  14]:  "  So 
that  there  cannot  be  found  among  their  fragments  a  sherd  to  rake 
fire  from  a  hearth."  Said  R.  Jossi:  "Therefrom  you  would 
adduce  your  proof  ?  It  says  immediately  after  that  [ibid.,  ibid.], 
'  and  to  draw  water  from  a  pit.'  " 

GEMARA:  We  must  assume  that  the  prescribed  quantity 
allowed  by  R.  Jossi  is  larger  than  that  allowed  by  R.  Meir;  but 
the  scriptural  text  shows  that  R.  Meir  allows  the  larger;  because, 
is  it  possible  that  the  prophet  will  curse  them  with  a  larger  object 
after  having  cursed  them  with  a  smaller  ?  Said  Abayi :  R.  Meir 
also  means  a  fragment  used  to  stir  a  big  fire  with ;  hence  his  frag- 
ment is  larger  than  R.  Jossi's. 

"  Satd  R.  Jossi,"  etc.  Is  not  R.  Jossi's  answer  correct  ? 
What  could  R.  Meir  rejoin  ?  R.  Meir  might  say  that  the  prophet 
intends  to  convey  that  not  only  shall  they  not  have  anything 
of  the  least  value  left,  but  they  shall  not  even  have  anything 
that  is  as  valueless  as  a  piece  of  fragment  big  enough  to  contain 
a  drop  of  water. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

RABBI    AQIBA's    REGULATIONS   ON    DIFFERENT    SUBJECTS. 

MISHNA /. :  R.  Aqibasaid:  Whence  do  we  deduce  that  one 
who  carries  an  idol  is  as  unclean  (ritually)  as  a  woman  suffering 
from  menstruation  ?  From  the  passage  [Isaiah,  xxx.  23]  :  "  Thou 
wilt  cast  them  away  as  a  filthy  thing.*  *  Get  thee  hence ! '  wilt 
thou  say  unto  them."  Thus,  in  the  same  manner  as  a  woman 
suffering  from  menstruation  causes  (ritual)  uncleanness,  so  does 
also  an  idol. 

GEMARA:  Rabba  said:  The  passage  mentioned  in  the 
Mishna  should  be  interpreted  thus:  "  Estrange  f  them  from  thy- 
self as  a  stranger;  Get  thee  hence,  say  unto  him,  but  tell  him  not 
to  come  in  !  "  Further  Rabba  said  :  It  is  unanimously  conceded 
that  the  carrying  of  idols  causes  (ritual)  uncleanness  and  hence 
it  is  compared  to  menstruation,  but  there  is  a  dissenting  opinion 
among  the  rabbis  concerning  a  stone  (used  as  a  pedestal  for  an 
idol  or  upon  which  a  woman  suffering  from  menstruation  chanced 
to  sit)  beneath  which  there  were  utensils.  R.  Aqiba  holds  that 
idols  are  regarded  the  same  as  menstruating  women  and  the  ves- 
sels beneath  the  stone  become  defiled  (for  the  reason  that  the 
stone  is  the  basis  of  the  idol,  and  the  former  becomes  part  of 
the  idol,  and  hence  everything  beneath  it  becomes  defiled),  but 
the  rabbis  regard  an  idol  as  a  reptile,  i.e.,  as  a  reptile  lying  upon 
a  large  stone  (in  which  case  any  utensils  chancing  to  be  beneath 
the  stone  do  not  become  defiled).  This  decree  is  unanimously 
conceded. 

R.  Ahadbou  b.  Ami  asked:  What  about  an  idol  smaller  in 
size  than  an  olive  ?  R.  Joseph  objected  to  this  question :  What 
is  the  purpose  of  the  query  ?  Does  it  refer  to  the  prohibition  of 
idolatry  ?     Even  an  idol  the  size  of  a  fly,  like  the  idol  of  the 

*  The  Hebrew  term  used  for  "  filthy  thing  "  in  the  passage  is  "  Davah,"  and  in 
Leviticus,  xx.  18,  Davah  is  translated,  "  a  woman  suffering  from  her  separation  (men- 
struation)." 

f  The  word  "  Tizrom  "  (cast  them  away)  Rabba  holds  to  be  a  derivation  from  the 
word  "  Zar"  (strange)  and  not  from  "  Zarah"  (cast  away). 

154 


TRACT    SABBATH.  155 

Ekronites,  which  was  called  Zebub  *  (fly)  is  also  prohibited ;  for 
we  are  taught  it  is  written  in  the  passage  [Judges,  viii.  33]:  "  And 
they  made  themselves  Baal-berith  for  a  god  "  ;  by  Baal-berith  is 
meant  the  Zebub  (fly)  idol  of  Ekron,  and  every  idolater  (at  that 
time)  made  an  image  of  his  idol  in  miniature  in  order  to  keep 
it  constantly  at  hand  and  to  be  able  at  any  time  to  take  it  out, 
embrace,  and  kiss  it ;  hence  there  is  no  question  as  to  size. 
Nay,  the  query  of  R.  Ahadbou  is  in  regard  to  causing  defile- 
ment ?  Either  it  is  regarded  as  a  reptile  and  defiles,  even  if  only 
of  the  size  of  a  lentil,  or  it  is  considered  as  a  corpse  and  causes 
defilement  if  it  is  the  size  of  an  olive.  (A  part  of  a  corpse  the 
size  of  an  olive  causes  the  person  touching  it  to  become  defiled.) 
Answered  R.  I  via,  and  according  to  others  Rabba  b.  Ulla: 
"  Come  and  hear  the  following  Boraitha:  '  No  defilement  is 
caused  by  idols  smaller  than  olives,  for  it  is  written  [II  Kings, 
xxiii.  6]:  "  And  cast  its  powder  upon  the  graves  of  the  children 
of  the  people."  '  "  (The  adduction  is)  that  as  a  corpse  cannot 
cause  defilement  by  a  part  less  than  the  size  of  an  olive,  the 
same  is  the  case  with  idols,  which  are  regarded  as  corpses. 

MISHNA  //,  :  (R.  Aqiba  says  again  :)  Whence  the  adduction 
that  a  ship,  though  a  wooden  vessel,  is  not  subject  to  defile- 
ment ?  From  the  passage  [Prov.  xxx.  19]  :  "  The  way  of  a  ship 
is  in  the  heart  of  the  sea." 

GEMARA :  It  is  certain  f  that  R.  Aqiba  intends  to  convey 
to  us  that  the  reason  the  passage  cited  in  the  above  Mishna 
informs  us  of  a  fact  known  to  all  is  because  the  sense  is  to  be 
construed  thus:  In  the  same  manner  as  the  sea  is  not  subject 
to  defilement,  so  also  a  ship  can  never  become  defiled. 

There  is  a  Boraitha :  Hananyah  said :  We  make  the  adduc- 
tion from  a  sack  (which  is  subject  to  defilement)  that  everything 
which  can  be  carried  after  the  manner  of  a  sack,  sometimes  full 
and  at  other  times  empty,  is  subject  to  defilement,  except  a 
ship,  which  cannot  be  carried  at  all,  full  or  empty.  What  are 
the  points  of  difference  in  the  two  adductions  (of  R.  Aqiba  and 
Hananyah)  ?  They  are  concerning  a  small  (river)  boat.  One 
holds  that  all  boats  (ships)  must  be  regarded  as  the  sea  itself 
(hence  not  subject  to  defilement),  while  the  other  is  of  the  opinion 
that  a  small  (river)  boat  must  be  regarded  as  a  sack  because  it  is 

*See  II  Kings,  i.  2. 

f  The  term  "  it  is  certain  "  (peshitah)  is  generally  used  by  the  Geraara  in  the  sense 
of  the  question,  "  Is  it  not  self-evident  ?"  In  the  above  case,  however,  it  is  intended 
for  an  explanation  of  the  reason  for  R,  Aqiba's  adduction.     See  Rashi. 


156  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

carried  to  the  place  whence  it  is  launched  and  hence  is  subject 
to  defilement;  as  R.  Hanina  b.  Aqa'bbia  said:  Why  did  the 
rabbis  say  that  a  small  (river)  boat  is  subject  to  defilement  ? 
Because  it  is  usually  loaded  in  the  dry  dock  and  then  carried  into 
the  river. 

Rabbi  Johanan  in  the  name  of  Rabbi  said:  "  One  should  not 
absent  himself  from  the  college  even  for  one  hour.  Behold,  this 
teaching  (concerning  a  river  boat)  has  been  taught  in  the  schools 
for  many  years  and  no  one  knew  the  reason  for  it  until  R.  Hanina 
b,  Aqa'bbia  came  and  explained  it." 

R.  Jonathan  said :  One  should  never  absent  himself  from  the 
house  of  learning  or  abstain  from  learning  the  law,  even  when 
at  the  point  of  death,  for  it  is  written  [Num.  xix.  14]:  "  This 
is  the  law,  when  a  man  dieth  in  his  tent  "  ;  {i.e.)  even  at  the  point 
of  death  man  must  occupy  himself  with  the  study  of  the  law. 
Rash  Lakish,  however,  adduces  from  the  same  verse  that  one  does 
not  retain  (in  memory)  the  law,  unless  he  is  ready  to  die  for  it. 

MISHNA  ///. :  (R.  Aqiba  said  :)  Whence  do  we  adduce  that 
in  a  patch  of  ground  six  spans  long  by  six  spans  wide  five  different 
kinds  of  seed  may  be  planted — one  kind  each  in  each  of  the  four 
corners  and  one  in  the  centre  of  the  patch  ?  From  the  passage 
[Isaiah,  Ixi.  11]:  "  For  as  the  earth  bringeth  forth  her  growth, 
and  as  a  garden  causeth  what  is  sown  therein  to  spring  forth." 
(We  see  then)  it  is  not  written  "  as  a  garden  causeth  its  seed  to 
spring  forth,"  but  what  is  sown  therein. 

GEMARA:  How  is  this  to  be  understood  from  that  passage  ? 
Said  R.  Jehudah  :  The  passage  cited  in  the  above  Mishna  is  to  be 
thus  explained :  * '  The  earth  bringeth  forth  her  growth. ' '  ' '  Bring- 
eth forth  "  (which  is  in  the  singular)  can  be  counted  for  "  one  " 
(kind  of  seed).  Her  "  growth  "  (also  singular)  can  also  be  counted 
for  "  one."  (Now  we  have  two.)  "  What  is  grown  therein  " 
(evidently  plural)  can  be  counted  for  two  more  (making  four), 
and  "  to  spring  forth  "  (in  the  singular  again)  can  be  counted  as 
one,  making  five  in  all ;  and  (as  far  as  the  six  spans  square  are 
concerned)  the  rabbis  are  quite  certain  (through  tradition)  that 
five  different  kinds  of  seed  in  a  patch  six  spans  square  do  not 
interfere  with  one  another.  But  whence  do  we  know  that  the 
assurance  of  the  rabbis  can  be  depended  upon  ?  Answered  R. 
Hyya  b.  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  from  the  passage 
[Deut.  xix.  14]:  "  Thou  shalt  not  remove  the  landmark  of  thy 
neighbor,  which  they  of  old  time  have  set,"  which  is  to  be  ex- 
plained: "  Thou  shalt  not  go  beyond  what  is  limited  by  those 


TRACT    SABBATH.  157 

of  old."  But  what  have  those  of  old  limited?  Answered  R. 
Samuel  bar  Na'hmeni  in  the  name  of  R.  Jonathan :  "  It  is  written 
[Gen.  xxxvi.  20]  :  "  These  are  the  sons  of  Seir  the  Chorite,  who 
inhabited  the  land."  Only  they  inhabited  the  land  ?  Did  the 
rest  of  mankind  inhabit  heaven  ?  It  simply  means  to  state  that 
they  made  the  earth  inhabitable  by  their  knowledge  of  agriculture 
and  their  experience  as  to  what  ground  is  adapted  for  the  planting 
of  olive  trees,  vines,  date  trees,  etc. 

R.  Assi  said:  "  The  teaching  of  R.  Aqiba  in  the  Mishna 
refers  to  a  patch  of  ground  six  spans  square,  excluding  the 
corners." 

Rabh  said:  "The  above  Mishna  has  reference  only  to  an 
isolated  patch  (or  furrow)  of  ground,  but  in  a  furrow  surrounded 
by  others  one  can  not  sow  five  kinds  of  grain,  (as  it  is  necessary 
to  have  a  space  of  three  spans  dividing  one  kind  from  the  other). 
Are  there  not  corners,  however,  (to  the  furrow)  ?"  The  school 
of  Rabh  explained,  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  reference  is  made 
to  furrows  into  the  corners  of  which  grain  had  been  sown. 

Samuel,  however,  said,  even  in  a  furrow  surrounded  by  other 
furrows.  But  will  not  the  seeds  interfere  one  with  another  ? 
Samuel  refers  to  furrows  which  are  planted  alternately  from 
north  to  east  and  from  south  to  west.* 

MISHNA  IV. \  (R.  Aqiba  says  again):  Whence  the  adduc- 
tion that  a  woman,  from  whom  seed  of  copulation  f  escapes  only 
on  the  third  day  (after  lying  with  her  husband),  is  unclean  ? 
From  the  passage  [Exodus,  xix.  15]:  "  And  he  said  unto  the 
people,  Be  ready  against  the  third  day.  Approach  not  unto  a 
woman."  Whence  the  adduction  that  a  child  maybe  bathed 
on  the  third  day  of  its  circumcision,  even  if  that  day  fall  on  a 
Sabbath  ?  From  the  passage  [Gen.  xxxiv.  25]:  "  And  it  came 
to  pass  on  the  third  day,  when  they  were  sore."  Whence  the 
adduction  that  a  string  of  crimson  wool  must  be  tied  on  the  head 
of  the  goat  that  was  to  be  sent  away  ?:|;  From  the  passage 
[Isaiah,  i.  18]:  "  Though  they  should  be  red  like  crimson,  they 
shall  become  (white)  like  wool."  Whence  do  we  adduce  that 
anointing  one's  &elf  on  the  Day  of  Atonement  is  equal  to  drink- 
ing ?     Although  no  positive  proof  is  apparent,  still  a  reference 

*  Rashi  declares  this  to  be  the  best  possible  explanation  of  Samuel's  opinion,  and 
says  that  many  others  offered  many  different  explanations,  none  of  which  are  compre- 
hensible. 

f  See  Leviticus,  xv.  16,  17,  18,  and  ibid.  xxii.  4. 

\  See  Lev.  xvi.  21. 


158  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

can  be  adduced  from  the  passage  [Psalms,  cix.  i8]:  "And  it 
Cometh  like  water  on  his  body  and  oil  into  his  bones." 

GEMARA:  The  first  part  of  the  Mishna  (treating  of  a 
woman)  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Elazar 
b.  Azaryah,  who  declares  her  (the  woman)  clean  in  that  case; 
the  second  part  of  the  Mishna,  however,  (treating  of  bathing  on 
the  third  day  after  circumcision)  is  in  direct  accord  with  his  own 
words  (as  will  be  seen  in  Chapter  XIX.).  Therefore  some  rabbis 
claim  that  the  first  part  of  the  Mishna  reads  clean  instead  of 
unclean,  i.e.,  that  the  whole  Mishna  is  according  to  the  opinion 
of  R.  Elazar  b.  Azaryah,  but  other  rabbis  claim  that  the  first 
part  of  the  Mishna  is  according  to  the  opinion  of  other  Tanaim, 
who  differ  with  Elazar  b.  Azaryah  (and  the  word  unclean  is 
correct). 

''And  they  shall  be  ready  against  the  third  day  "  [Ex.  xix, 
ii].  R.  Ada  b.  Ahbha  said:  "  Moses  went  up  (to  the  Mount 
Sinai)  at  daybreak,  and  descended  the  following  break  of  day." 
He  went  up  at  break  of  day,  as  it  is  written  [Ex.  xxxiv.  4]: 
"  And  Moses  rose  up  early  in  the  morning  and  went  up  unto 
Mount  Sinai."  He  descended  on  the  following  daybreak,  as  it  is 
written  [ibid.  xix.  24] :  "  Go,  get  thee  down,  and  then  shalt  thou 
come  up,  thou,  and  Aaron  with  thee. ' '  We  see  that  the  Scripture 
compares  the  descending  to  the  ascending,  and  as  the  ascending 
was  early  in  the  morning,  so  was  also  the  descending  early  in  the 
morning. 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  decalogue  was  given  to  Israel  on  the 
sixth  day  of  the  (third)  month,  but  R.  Jossi  said  on  the  seventh 
day. 

Said  Rabba:  All  agree  that  on  the  first  day  of  the  (third) 
month  the  Israelites  arrived  at  the  wilderness  of  Sinai.  It  is 
adduced  from  the  analogy  of  the  word  "  this  "  ;  [Ex.  xix.  i]  "  on 
this  day  they  arrived  at  the  wilderness  of  Sinai,"  and  [Ex.  xii.  2] 
"  this  month  to  be  to  you  the  first  of  months."  As  in  the 
latter  instance  the  "  this  "  referred  to  the  first,  so  does  it  also  in 
the  former;  furthermore  (he  said),  all  agree  that  the  law  was 
given  to  Israel  on  a  Sabbath ;  this  is  to  be  adduced  from  the 
analogy  of  the  word  "remember"  [Ex.  xx.  8]:  ''Remember 
the  Sabbath-day  to  keep  it  holy  "  ;  and  [ibid.  iii.  3] :  "  Remember 
this  day  on  which  ye  came  out  from  Egypt."  As  in  the  latter 
instance  the  very  day  of  their  coming  out  of  Egypt  is  referred 
to,  so  is  it  also  in  the  former  instance.  Where  the  rabbis  do 
differ  is  what  day  was  the  first  of  the  month.     R.  Jossi  holds 


TRACT    SABBATH.  159 

that  the  first  of  the  month  was  set  on  the  first  of  the  week,  and 
on  that  day  no  commandments  were  given,  because  the  children 
of  Israel  were  tired  from  their  long  journey.  On  the  second  day 
(of  the  week)  the  Lord  said  to  them:  "  Ye  shall  be  unto  me  a 
kingdom  of  priests  "  [Ex.  xix.  i].  On  the  third  of  the  week 
he  commanded  them  to  keep  away  from  the  mountain.  On  the 
fourth  to  separate  themselves  from  their  wives.  The  rabbis? 
however,  hold  that  the  first  of  the  month  was  set  on  the  second 
of  the  week;  that  on  that  day  nothing  was  commanded  the 
Israelites,  they  being  tired ;  on  the  third  the  cited  passage  [Ex. 
xix.  i]  was  said ;  on  the  fourth  day  they  were  to  keep  away 
from  the  mountain,  and  on  the  fifth  to  separate  themselves  from 
their  wives. 

An  objection  was  raised:  It  is  written  [Ex.  xix.  10]:  "  Go 
unto  the  people,  and  sanctify  them  to-day  and  to-morrow."  Is 
this  not  contradictory  to  the  statement  of  R.  Jossi  (in  whose 
opinion  the  sanctification  lasted  three  days)  ?  R.  Jossi  may 
explain  this  thus:  "  Moses  added  one  day  upon  his  own  au- 
thority," as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  Three  things  were 
done  by  Moses  upon  his  own  authority,  and  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  agreed  thereto.  They  are :  He  added  one  day 
(to  the  period  of  sanctification),  he  separated  himself  from  a 
woman,  and  he  broke  the  tablets  into  pieces."  "  He  added  one 
day  upon  his  own  authority. "  What  was  his  object  ?  The  Lord 
said  unto  him:  "  To-day  and  to-morrow,"  and  he  construed  the 
words  as  follows:  "  To-day  must  be  equal  (in  duration)  to  to- 
morrow; as  to-morrow  includes  the  night,  so  must  to-day;  the 
night,  however,  having  already  passed,  another  day  must  be  added 
in  order  to  make  up  for  the  lost  night."  Whence  do  we  know 
that  the  Lord  agreed  to  this  ?  Because  the  Shekhina  did  not 
appear  on  Mount  Sinai  until  the  Sabbath  morn.  What  was  the 
object  of  Moses  in  separating  himself  from  a  woman  ?  He  applied 
the  order  given  the  Israelites  (to  separate  themselves  from  their 
wives)  to  himself  in  a  so  much  larger  degree  {i.e.,  the  order  having 
been  issued  to  the  Israelites  for  the  reason  that  they  would 
shortly  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord,  it  would  be  so  much  more 
proper  for  him,  who  frequently  was  spoken  to  by  the  Lord,  to 
separate  himself  entirely  from  a  woman).  And  whence  do  we 
know  that  the  Lord  agreed  to  this  also  ?  It  is  written  [Deut. 
V.  27  and  28]:  "  Go,  say  to  them.  Return  you  unto  your  tents. 
But  as  for  thee,  remain  thou  here  by  me."  And  what  was  his 
object  in  breaking  the  tablets  ?    He  thought :  ' '  As  concerning  the 


i6o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Passover  sacrifice,  which  is  only  one  of  the  six  hundred  and  thir. 
teen  commandments,  it  is  written  [Ex.  xii.  43] :  '  No  stranger 
shall  eat  thereof,*  how  can  I  give  the  tablets,  which  contain  all 
the  commandments,  to  the  children  of  Israel,  who  are  now  all 
renegades?"  And  whence  do  we  know  that  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  agreed  even  to  this  ?  It  is  written  [Ex.  xxxiv. 
i]:  "And  the  Lord  said  unto  Moses,  Hew  thyself  two  tables 
of  stone  like  unto  the  first;  and  I  will  write  upon  these  tables 
the  words  which  were  on  the  first  tables  which  thou  didst  break." 
Said  Resh  Lakish:  "  *  Which  thou  didst  break'  really  means, 
'  which  thou  didst  break  rightfully.'  " 

Another  objection  was  raised :  It  is  written  [Ex.  xix.  1 1] : 
"  And  they  shall  be  ready  against  the  third  day."  According 
to  R.  Jossi  it  should  be  the  fourth  day.  This  is  no  objection ! 
as  it  is  said  above  that  Moses  added  another  day  upon  his  own 
authority.  Come  and  hear  another  objection:  "The  sixth 
means  the  sixth  of  the  week  and  of  the  month."  Is  this  not 
contradictory  to  the  statement  of  the  rabbis,  who  say:  "The 
first  of  the  month  was  the  second  day  of  the  week  ?"  Yea,  (it 
may  be  that)  this  Boraitha  holds  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Jossi. 

Come  and  hear:  On  the  fourteenth  day  of  the  month  of 
Nissan,  during  which  (month)  the  Israelites  went  out  of  Egypt, 
they  killed  the  Passover  sacrifice  and  on  the  fifteenth  day  they 
went  out.  On  the  night  before  that  the  first-born  of  the  Egyp- 
tians were  beaten.  That  day  (the  fifteenth)  was  the  fifth  of  the 
week.  Now,  if  the  fifteenth  of  Nissan  was  the  fifth  of  the  week, 
we  must  certainly  say  that  the  first  of  the  next  month  (lar)  was 
Sabbath  and  the  first  day  of  the  following  month  (Sivan)  was  the 
first  day  of  the  week.  Is  this  not  contradictory  to  the  statement 
of  the  rabbis,  that  the  first  day  of  the  month  was  the  second  day 
of  the  week  ?  The  rabbis  might  have  assumed  that  the  month  of 
lar  was  an  intercalary  month. 

Said  R.  Habibi  of  'Huzunah  to  R.  Ashi:  Come  and  hear: 
It  is  written  [Ex.  xl.  17]:  "And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  first 
month  in  the  second  year,  on  the  first  of  the  month,  that  the 
tabernacle  was  reared  up,"  and  a  Boraitha  teaches  that  this  day 
was  crowned  tenfold,  viz.:  "  That  day  was  the  first  of  the  six 
days  of  the  creation ;  the  first  of  the  days  on  which  the  first 
prince  presented  his  offering  before  the  altar;  the  first  of  the 
days  on  which  the  priests  (Aaron  and  sons)  did  their  work  in 
the  sanctuary;  the  first  day  on  which  the  children  of  Israel 
brought  their  sacrifices  into  the  tabernacle ;  the  first  of  the  days 


TRACT    SABBATH.  i6i 

on  which  the  heavenly  fire  descended  upon  the  altar;  the  first  of 
the  days  on  which  the  priests  were  permitted  to  eat  the  sacrifices 
in  the  tabernacle;  the  first  of  the  days  on  which  the  Shekhina 
appeared  in  the  tabernacle;  the  first  day  on  which  Aaron  the 
High  Priest  blessed  the  Israelites  in  the  tabernacle;  the  first 
of  the  days  on  which  sacrifices  were  no  more  permitted  to  be 
brought  on  the  high  places  outside  of  the  tabernacle,  and  the 
first  day  of  the  first  of  the  months."  Now,  if  the  first  day  of 
this  year  was  the  first  day  of  the  week,  we  must  say  the  first  of 
Nissan  of  the  preceding  year  fell  on  the  fourth  day  of  the  week, 
because  we  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha:  "  Anonymous 
teachers  say  that  there  can  be  not  more  than  four  days'  differ- 
ence between  one  New  Year's  day  and  another."  If  a  leap  year 
intervened,  then  there  may  be  a  difference  of  five  days.  Is  this 
not  contradictory  to  the  opinion  of  both  the  rabbis  and  R.  Jossi  ? 
According  to  R.  Jossi  there  were  seven  short  months  (of  twenty- 
nine  days)  in  that  year,  but  according  to  the  rabbis  there  were 
eight  such  months,  (consequently  the  difference  from  the  last 
year  was  only  in  two  days,)  as  this  year  was  an  extraordinary 
one.  (And  the  first  day  of  the  month  lar  of  the  last  year  was 
on  Friday.) 

Another  objection  was  raised :  We  have  learned  in  the  Tract 
Seder  Aulim  that  on  the  fourteenth  day  of  the  month  of  Nissan, 
during  which  (month)  the  Israelites  went  out  of  Egypt,  they 
killed  the  Passover  sacrifice;  on  the  fifteenth  they  went  out,  and 
that  day  was  Friday.  Now,  if  the  first  of  the  month  of  Nissan 
of  that  year  was  Friday,  we  must  say  that  the  first  day  of  the 
following  (lar)  month  was  on  the  first  day  of  the  week  and 
the  first  of  the  succeeding  month  (Sivan)  was  on  Monday.  Is 
this  not  contradictory  with  R.  Jossi  ?  R.  Jossi  will  then  say 
that  this  Boraitha  is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  the 
rabbis. 

Come  and  hear  another  objection:  R.  Jossi  says:  "  On  the 
second  day  Moses  went  up  on  the  Mount  Sinai  and  came  back. 
The  same  he  did  on  the  third  day,  but  on  the  fourth  day,  when 
he  came  back,  he  remained."  Came  back  and  remained  ? 
Whence  did  he  come  back — it  does  not  say  that  he  went  up  at 
all  ?  Say,  then,  on  the  fourth  day  he  went  up,  came  back,  and 
remained.  On  the  fifth  he  built  an  altar  and  offered  a  sacrifice. 
On  the  sixth  he  had  no  time.  Shall  we  assume  that  he  had  no 
time  because  on  that  day  the  Israelites  received  the  Torah  ? 
(If  we  say  that  the  second  refers  to  the  second  day  of  the  week, 

VOL.    I. — II 


i62  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

it  must  be  a  fact  that  the  Torah  was  given  on  Friday,  and  would 
this  not  be  a  contradiction  to  his  [R.  Jossi's]  own  opinion  ?) 
Nay;  he  had  no  time  because  the  Sabbath  was  at  hand. 

A  Galilean  lectured  in  the  presence  of  R,  Hisda:  Praised  be 
the  merciful  God,  who  gave  a  triple  law  (the  Pentateuch,  Proph- 
ets, and  Hagiographa)  to  a  triple  people  (Kahanites,  Levites, 
and  Israelites)  through  a  man  who  was  the  third  child  of  his 
parents  (Miriam,  Aaron,  and  Moses),  on  the  third  day  of  sancti- 
fication  and  in  the  third  month.  We  see  from  this  that  the 
Galilean  held  in  accordance  with  the  teachings  of  the  rabbis. 

It  is  written  [Ex.  xix.  17]:  "  And  they  placed  themselves  at 
the  foot  of  the  mount."  Said  R.  Abhdimi  b.  Hama  b.  Hassa: 
"  It  appears  from  this  passage  that  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be 
He,  inclined  the  mountain  toward  the  children  of  Israel  and  gave 
them  the  choice  of  either  accepting  the  Torah  or  being  buried 
right  under  the  mountain."  Said  R.  Aha  b.  Jacob:  "  This 
would  accord  us  the  right  to  protest  against  any  punishment 
inflicted  upon  us  for  violating  the  law.  (For  we  were  compelled 
to  accept  it.)"  Said  Rabha:  Although  (at  that  time  they  were 
compelled  to  accept  it),  at  the  time  of  Ahasuerus  (King  of  Persia) 
they  accepted  it  voluntarily.  For  it  is  written  [Esther,  ix,  27]: 
"  The  Jews  confirmed  it  as  a  duty,  and  took  upon  themselves 
and  upon  their  seed."  And  it  is  to  be  explained:  "  They  took 
upon  themselves  voluntarily  what  at  one  time  they  were  com- 
pelled to  accept."  R.  Simai  lectured:  "  At  that  time,  when 
Israel  answered  to  the  information  of  Moses,  '  We  will  do  and 
we  will  obey,'  six  hundred  thousand  angels  had  furnished  to 
every  one  of  Israel  two  crowns :  one  for  the  answer  '  We  will 
do,'  and  one  for  the  answer  '  We  will  obey.'  Thereafter  when 
Israel  sinned  (with  the  Golden  Calf)  twelve  hundred  thousand 
destroying  angels  descended  and  took  them  away ;  as  it  is  written 
[Exodus,  xxxiii.  6]:  *  The  children  of  Israel  then  stripped  them- 
selves of  their  ornaments  (they  wore)  from  (the  time  they  were 
at)  Mount  Horeb.'  "  Said  R.  Hami  b.  R.  Hanina:  "  For  in  the 
same  passage  it  may  be  deduced  that  in  the  same  place  where 
they  were  furnished  they  were  taken  away  from  them."  Said 
R.  Johanan :  All  of  them  were  given  as  a  reward  to  Moses,  as 
immediately  after  the  verse  cited  it  is  written  :  "  And  Moses  took 
the  tent,"  etc.  Said  Resh  Lakish:  We  hope,  however,  that  the 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will  return  them  to  us,  as  it  is  written 
[Isaiah,  xxxv.  10]:  "  And  the  ransomed  of  the  Lord  shall  return, 
and  come  to  Zion  with  song,  with  everlasting  joy  upon  their 


TRACT   SABBATH.  163 

head."  The  expression  everlasting  means  that  it  was  already 
upon  their  heads  at  the  time  of  reception  of  the  Torah. 

R.  Elazar  said  :  At  the  time  the  Israelites  said  "  We  will  do  " 
and  afterward  "  We  will  obey  "  a  heavenly  voice  (Bath-kol)  was 
heard,  which  said  unto  them  :  "  Who  unfolded  unto  my  children 
this  mystery  known  only  to  the  angels?"  For  it  is  wiitten 
[Psalms,  ciii.  20]:  "  Bless  the  Lord,  ye  his  angels,  mighty  in 
strength,  that  execute  his  word,  hearkening  unto  the  voice  of  his 
word,"  and  from  this  we  see  that  only  angels  can  execute  first 
and  then  obey. 

A  Sadducee  once  noticed  Rabha  studying  and  observed  that 
he  in  his  absent-mindedness  held  his  (Rabha's)  finger  underneath 
his  knee  and  pressed  it  so  hard  that  blood  spurted  from  the 
finger.  Said  the  Sadducee*  to  him:  "Impetuous  people, 
whose  mouths  precede  your  ears!  Ye  are  still  of  the  same 
vehemence!  Ye  must  first  hear  the  Torah  before  you  accept 
it  and  not  accept  without  knowing  its  prescriptions!"  An- 
swered Rabha:  We  who  are  upright  men  trusted  Him,  as  it  is 
said  of  us  [Proverbs,  xi.  3]:  "  The  integrity  of  the  upright  guid- 
eth  them,"  but  to  those  men  who  are  continually  fault-finding 
the  latter  part  of  the  same  verse  [ibid.,  ibid.]  can  be  applied,  viz. : 
"  But  the  cunning  of  the  treacherous  destroyeth  them." 

R.  Samuel  b.  Na'hmeni  in  the  name  of  R.  Jonathan  said: 
It  is  written  [Solomon's  Song,  iv.  9] :  '  Thou  hast  ravished  my 
heart,  O  my  sister,  (my)  bride !  thou  hast  ravished  my  heart  with 
one  of  thy  eyes. "  This  means:  When  thou  didst  but  receive 
the  Torah,  it  was  with  one  of  thy  eyes.  When  thou  wilt  obey 
it,  it  will  be  with  both  of  thy  eyes. 

R.  Johanan  said:  It  is  written  [Psalms,  Ixviii.  12]:  "The 
Lord  gave  (happy)  tidings ;  they  are  published  by  female  messen- 
gers, a  numerous  host."  This  implies  that  every  word  emanat- 
ing from  the  mighty  God  was  heralded  in  seventy  languages. 
The  school  of  R.  Ishmael,  however,  (adduced  the  same  from 
another  passage):  It  is  written  [Jeremiah,  xxiii.  29]:  "Is  not 
thus  my  word  like  the  fire  ?  saith  the  Lord,  and  like  a  hammer 
that  shivereth  the  rock  ? "  As  the  hammer  that  strikes  emits  a 
multitude  of  sparks,  so  is  every  word  emanating  from  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  heralded  in  seventy  different  languages. 

*  It  is  not  meant  a  real  Sadducee,  as  they  did  not  yet  exist  in  Rabha's  time, 
but  one  of  the  other  sects  which  opposed  the  oral  law;  and  the  name  may  be  here  a 
correction  of  the  censor  instead  of  Akum,  as  there  are  many  such  corrections  of  the 
censor.     It  may  also  be  another  sect  for  which  the  name  Sadducee  was  borrowed. 


i64  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

R.  Hananel  b.  Papa  said:  It  is  written  [Proverbs,  viii.  6]. 
"  Hear!  for  of  noble  things  will  I  speak."  Why  are  the  words 
of  the  Torah  compared  to  a  noble  ?  To  inform  us  that  inas- 
much as  a  noble  has  in  his  power  the  disposal  over  life  and  death, 
so  have  also  the  words  of  the  Torah.  This  is  similar  to  what 
Rabha  said:  To  those  who  walk  in  the  right  ways  of  the  law,  it 
is  an  elixir  of  life,  but  to  those  who  pursue  not  the  right  way, 
it  is  the  poison  of  death. 

R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi  said:  It  is  written  [Solomon's  Song,  i. 
12] :  "A  bundle  of  myrrh  is  my  friend  unto  me,  that  resteth  on 
my  bosom."  Said  the  Congregation  of  Israel:  "Lord  of  the 
Universe!  Although  my  friend  chastiseth*  me,  still  he  resteth 
on  my  bosom  !  " 

The  same  rabbi  said:  "  It  is  written  [Solomon's  Song,  v.  13]: 
"  His  cheeks  are  as  a  bed  of  spices,  as  turrets  of  sweet  perfumes." 
Every  word  emanating  from  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  fills 
the  whole  world  with  the  aroma  of  spices.  If  the  v/orld  was 
filled  with  the  aroma  arising  from  the  first  word,  where  could 
the  second  word  go  ?  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  sent  forth 
a  wind  from  His  store,  which  cleared  off  the  aroma  of  each 
word,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.]:  "  His  lips  like  lilies,  dropping  with 
fluid  myrrh."  Do  not  read  Shoshanim  (lilies)  but  Sheshonim 
(learned  men).  The  same  said  again  that  from  each  word  which 
came  from  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  the  soul  of  Israel  was 
going  out,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  6]:  "  My  soul  had  failed 
me  while  he  was  speaking."  But  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
has  let  down  the  dew  with  which  He  will  in  the  future  make  the 
resurrection  and  bring  them  to  life;  as  it  is  written  [Psalms, 
Ixviii.  10]:  "  Rain  of  beneficence  didst  thou  pour  down,  O 
God!" 

He  also  said :  When  Moses  ascended  into  Heaven,  said  the 
angels  before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  "  Lord  of  the  Uni- 
verse !     What  has  one  born  of  a  woman  to  do  among  us  ? " 

The  Lord  answered:  "  He  came  to  receive  the  Torah." 
Said  the  angels  again:  "  Wouldst  Thou  give  a  precious  thing 
that  Thou  hast  preserved  since  nine  hundred  and  seventy-four 
generations  before  the  creation  of  the  world  to  a  being  of  flesh 
and  blood  ?  (It  is  written  [Psalms,  viii.  5]):  What  is  the  mortal, 
that  thou  rememberest  him  ?  and  the  son  of  man,  that  thou 
thinkest  of  him  ?"     Said  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,   unto 

*The  Hebrew  term  for  bundle  is  Tzror,  and  for  oppressor  is  Tzoror;  hence  R. 
Johanan  interprets  Tzror  as  if  it  were  Tzoror. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  165 

Moses:  "  Give  thou  them  an  answer!  "  Answered  Moses  before 
the  Lord;  "  Lord  of  the  Universe!  What  is  written  in  the  law, 
which  Thou  gavest  unto  me  ?  "^Ex.  xx.  2].  "I  am  the  Lord, 
thy  God,  who  have  brought  thee  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt." 
Moses  then  said  to  the  angels:  Were  ye  in  Egypt  ?  Have  ye 
served  Pharaoh  ?  Of  what  use  can  the  Torah  be  unto  you  ? 
Further,  what  is  written  in  the  Torah  [ibid.  3]:  "Thou  shalt 
have  no  other  gods  before  me."  Are  ye  among  the  nations  that 
worship  idols  ?  And  furthermore,  what  is  written  in  the  Torah  ? 
[ibid.  8]:  "  Remember  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy."  Do 
ye  any  labor  on  the  week-days  ?  [Ibid.  7]:  "  Thou  shalt  not  take 
the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain."  Are  ye  merchants,  that 
ye  must  swear  ?  [Ibid.  13]:"  Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother.  ' 
Have  ye  fathers  and  mothers  to  honor?  [Ibid.  12]:  "  Thou  shalt 
not  kill,"  etc.  Is  there  any  jealousy  among  you  ?  Have  ye  any 
evil  intent  ? 

Then  the  angels  confessed  and  praised  the  Holy  One,  blessed 
be  He,  as  it  is  written  [Psalms,  viii.  10]:  "  O  Eternal  One,  our 
Lord,  how  excellent  is  thy  name  on  all  the  earth!"  but  the 
ending  of  the  verse  [ibid.  2],  "  Thou  who  hast  set  thy  majesty 
above  the  heavens,"  is  not  cited  in  this  verse.  Then  every  one 
of  the  angels  befriended  Moses  and  each  of  them  disclosed  some 
mystery  to  him,  as  it  is  written  [Psalms,  Ixviii.  19] :  "  Thou  didst 
ascend  on  high,  lead  away  captives,  receive  gifts  among  men," 
which  means  that  because  at  first  the  angels  called  Moses  one 
born  of  a  woman  (man),  they  at  the  close  gave  him  gifts,  and 
even  the  Angel  of  Death  disclosed  a  mystery  to  him,  as  it  is 
written  [Num.  xvii.  12  and  13]:  "And  he  put  on  the  incense, 
and  made  an  atonement  for  the  people.  And  he  stood  between 
the  dead  and  the  living."  Now  if  the  Angel  of  Death  had  not 
disclosed  unto  Moses  this  mystery,  how  could  he  have  imparted 
it  to  Aaron  ? 

Said  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi  again :  When  Moses  descended 
from  Heaven,  Satan  came  before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
and  said:  "Lord  of  the  universe!  Where  is  the  Torah?" 
And  the  Lord  answered :  "  I  have  given  it  to  the  earth. "  Satan 
descended  to  earth  and  said  to  it:  "Where  is  the  Torah?" 
And  the  earth  answered  [Job,  xxviii.  23]:  "  God  (alone)  under- 
standeth  her  way,  and  he  knoweth  her  place."  Satan  then  went 
to  the  sea,  and  the  sea  said:  "  She  is  not  with  me."  He  then 
went  to  the  deep,  and  the  deep  answered:  "  Not  in  me  is  she," 
as  it  is  written  [ibid.  14]:  "  The  deep  saith,  Not  in  me  is  she; 


i66  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

and  the  sea  saith,  She  is  not  with  me."  [Ibid,  22] :  "  Perdition 
and  death  say:  With  our  ears  have  we  heard  a  report  of  her," 
Satan  then  ascended  before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  and 
said:  "  Lord  of  the  Universe!  I  have  looked  for  the  Torah  on 
the  whole  earth  and  could  not  find  it."  Then  said  the  Lord 
unto  him:  "  Go  unto  the  son  of  Amram."  And  Satan  went  to 
Moses  and  said  to  him:  "  Where  is  the  Torah  which  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  gave  unto  thee  ?"  And  Moses  answered  : 
"  Who  am  I,  that  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  should  give  me 
the  Torah?"  Said  the  Lord  unto  Moses:  "Moses,  art  thou 
a  liar  ?  "  Said  Moses  before  the  Lord:  "  Lord  of  the  Universe! 
Shall  I  claim  that  Thou  hast  given  unto  me  a  precious  thing 
which  Thou  didst  fondle  every  day?"  Said  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  unto  Moses:  "  Because  thou  hast  humbled  thy- 
self, the  Torah  shall  bear  thy  name,"  as  it  is  written  [Malachi, 
ill.  22]  :  "  Remember  ye  the  law  of  Moses  my  servant." 

The  same  rabbi  said  again :  When  Moses  ascended  unto 
Heaven  (and  he  was  silent),  the  Lord  said  unto  him:  "  Moses, 
is  there  no  peace  in  thy  city  ?  "  And  Moses  answered:  "  Is  it 
then  proper  that  a  slave  should  salute  his  Master  ?"  Said  the 
Lord:  "  Still  thou  shouldst  have  wished  me  well."  Then  said 
Moses  before  the  Lord  [Numbers,  xiv.  17] :  "  And  now,  I  beseech 
thee,  let  the  greatness  of  the  power  of  the  Lord  be  made  mani- 
fest as  thou  hast  spoken." 

"A  string  of  crimson  wool,"  etc.  Did  not  the  passage  say 
(Kashanim)*  "  like  years  "  and  not  like  crimson,  for  were  it  like 
crimson  it  would  read  Kashani  ?  Said  R.  Itz'hak:  "  The  pas- 
sage is  thus  to  be  explained:  The  Lord  said  unto  Israel:  If  your 
sins  all  lie  before  me  as  the  years  that  have  passed  since  the 
creation,  they  shall  nevertheless  become  white  as  snow." 

Rabha  lectured:  It  is  written  [Isaiah,  i.  18]:  "Go  now,f  and 
let  us  reason  together,  said  the  Lord."  It  should  not  read  "  go 
now  "  but  "  come  now,"  and  not  "  saith  the  Lord  "  but  "  said 
the  Lord."  The  passage  should  be  explained :  In  the  future  the 
Lord  will  say  unto  Israel :  Go  to  your  ancestors  and  they  shall 
rebuke  you ;  and  Israel  will  say  before  the  Lord :  Lord  of  the 

*  Shanah  in  Hebrew  means  year  {Shaniiii,  plural,  years).  Shany  means  crimson, 
but  the  latter  is  used  only  once  (Prov.  xxxi.  21)  in  plural;  the  former,  however,  is 
generally  used  in  plural,  as,  for  many  years.  As  here  it  is  in  plural  [Kashanini)  he 
declares  it  like  years. 

\  In  Isaac  Leaser's  translation  of  the  Bible,  which  we  use  in  Biblical  citations, 
this  passage  is  rendered  "  Come  now,"  but  the  literal  translation  is  "Go  now." 


TRACT    SABBATH.  167 

Universe,  to  whom  shall  we  go  ?  Shall  we  go  to  Abraham,  to 
whom  Thou  hast  said:  "  Know  of  a  surety  that  thy  seed  shall 
be  a  stranger  in  a  land  which  is  not  theirs,  and  they  will  make 
them  serve,"  and  he  did  not  pray  for  us  ?  Shall  we  go  to  Isaac, 
who,  when  blessing  Esau,  said  [Gen.  xxvii.  40] :  "  And  it  shall 
come  to  pass  that  when  thou  shalt  have  the  dominion  thou  canst 
break  his  yoke  from  ofT  thy  neck,"  and  he  also  did  not  pray  for 
us  ?  Shall  we  go  to  Jacob,  to  whom  Thou  didst  say  [Gen.  xlvi. 
4]:  "I  will  go  down  with  thee  into  Egypt,"  and  not  even  he 
prayed  for  us  ?  To  whom  shall  we  go  now  ?  Then  the  Lord 
will  say  unto  Israel:  "  Inasmuch  as  ye  have  attached  yourselves 
to  me,  though  your  sins  should  be  as  scarlet,  they  shall  become 
white  as  snow." 

Said  R.  Samuel  b.  Na'hmeni  in  the  name  of  R.  Jonathan: 
It  is  written  [Isaiah,  Ixiii.  16]:  "  For  Thou  art  our  Father;  for 
Abraham  knoweth  nothing  of  us,  and  Israel  recognizeth  us  not; 
Thou,  O  Lord,  art  our  Father,  our  Redeemer  from  everlasting 
is  thy  name."  In  the  future  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will 
say  to  Abraham :  "  Thy  children  have  sinned  before  me,"  and 
Abraham  will  answer:  "  Let  them  be  wiped  ofT  (the  face  of  the 
earth)  for  the  sake  of  the  holiness  of  Thy  name."  The  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  will  then  say:  "  I  shall  tell  this  to  Jacob, 
who  had  trouble  in  rearing  his  own  children  ;  perhaps  he  will  pay 
for  the  present  generation."  The  Lord  said  to  Jacob:  "Thy 
children  have  sinned  before  me,"  and  Jacob  gave  the  same  reply 
as  Abraham.  Then  said  the  Lord:  "  Not  with  the  aged  can 
feeling  be  found,  nor  with  the  young  wise  counsel."  The  Lord 
then  said  to  Isaac:  "Thy  children  have  sinned  before  me." 
Then  said  Isaac  before  the  Lord  :  ' '  Creator  of  the  universe  !  Thou 
sayest  my  children,  are  they  not  Thine  ?  When  they  answered 
before  Thee,  '  We  will  do,'  and  (then)  'obey,'  Thou  calledst 
them  *  My  son,  my  first-born,*  and  now  they  are  my  children 
and  not  Thine!  And  furthermore,  how  long  a  time  have  they 
sinned  before  Thee?  Let  us  see;  what  is  the  duration  of  a 
man's  life  ?  Only  seventy  years.  Take  off  the  twenty  years 
that  Thou  dost  not  punish  for  sin  and  only  fifty  remain.  Take 
off  the  nights  and  only  twenty-five  full  years  remain.  Deduct 
again  twelve  years  and  six  months  spent  in  praying,  eating,  and 
in  the  performance  of  other  necessities,  only  twelve  and  one-half 
years  remain.  If  Thou  wilt  bear  the  whole  it  is  well,  but  if  not 
let  me  bear  half  and  Thou  the  other  half.  If  Thou  wilt  say  that 
I  must  bear  the  whole,  did  I  not  sacrifice  myself  for  Thee  ?" 


i68  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Then  Israel  said  (unto  Isaac) :  "  For  thou  (alone)  art  our  father." 
Said  Isaac  unto  them:  "  Instead  of  praising  me,  praise  ye  the 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,"  and  he  pointed  them  on  high  with 
his  finger.  "  There  is  the  Lord!"  Then  they  lifted  up  their 
eyes  unto  Heaven  and  said :  Thou,  O  Lord,  art  our  Father,  our 
Redeemer  from  everlasting  is  Thy  name. 

R.  Hyya  b.  Aba  said  in  the  name  of  R..  Johanan:  "  Jacob 
deserved  to  go  down  into  Egypt  in.  iron  shackles  (because  that 
is  the  usual  way  of  going  into  exile),  but  his  merits  precluded 
such  a  thing,  as  it  is  v/ritten:  "  With  human  cords  I  ever  drew 
them  forward,  with  leading-strings  of  love;  and  I  was  to  them 
as  those  that  lift  off  the  yoke  from  their  jaws,  and  I  held  out 
unto  them  food  "  [Hosea,  xi.  4]. 

MISHNA  V. :  The  prescribed  quantity  for  wood  is  as  much 
as  suffices  to  cook  an  (easily  boiled)  egg;  for  spices  as  much  as 
would  sufifice  to  spice  such  an  egg — and  the  different  spices  are 
counted  together;  nut-shells,  pomegranate  peel,  isatis,  and 
cochineal,  as  much  as  suffices  to  dye  the  edge  of  a  small  piece 
of  cloth ;  alum,  native  carbonate  of  soda,  Cimolia  chalk,  vege- 
table soap,  as  much  as  sufifices  to  wash  the  edge  of  a  small  piece 
of  cloth.  R.  Jehudah  says  as  much  as  will  suffice  to  remove  a 
blood  stain. 

GEMARA :  Have  we  not  learned  this  already  ?  Reeds,  split, 
as  much  as  will  suffice  to  cook  an  egg  ?  In  that  case  we  must 
assume  that  the  reeds  could  not  be  used  for  any  other  purpose, 
but  wood  which  can  be  put  to  a  multitude  of  uses,  as,  for  instance, 
to  make  the  handle  for  a  key,  (should  be  limited  to  a  smaller 
quantity).  He  comes  to  teach  us  that  the  same  quantity  also 
applies  in  this  case. 

"  Nut-sJiells,''  etc.  Is  this  not  a  contradiction  to  what  we 
have  learned  elsewhere,  that  dyes  may  not  be  carried  in  quan- 
tities sufficient  to  exhibit  a  sample  of  the  color  in  the  market  ? 
Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu:  "  Because 
one  will  not  take  the  trouble  to  make  dye  sufficient  only  for  a 
sample." 

"Native  carbonate,"  etc.  A  Boraitha  in  addition  to  this 
states,  that  coming  from  Alexandria  but  not  from  Anphantrin. 

"  Vegetable  soap  "  (Ashleg).  Said  Samuel:  "  I  have  inquired 
of  a  number  of  seafaring  men  and  they  have  told  me  that  the 
name  for  it  is  Ashalgoh ;  it  is  found  in  the  shells  of  a  pearl-oyster 
and  it  is  extracted  with  iron  needles." 

MISHNA  VI. :  The  prescribed  quantity  for  (aromatic)  pepper 


TRACT    SABBATH.  169 

(pimento)  is  the  least  possible  amount;  for  tar  it  is  the  same; 
for  different  kinds  of  spices  and  metals  it  is  also  the  same;  for 
the  stone  and  the  earth  of  the  altar,  torn  pieces  of  the  scroll  of 
laws  or  its  cover,  it  is  also  the  same,  because  such  things  are 
generally  preserved  by  men.  R.  Jehudah  said  :  The  same  quan- 
tity applies  to  everything  pertaining  to  the  worship  of  idols, 
because  it  is  written  [Deut.  xiii.  18]:  "  And  there  shall  not  cleave 
to  thy  hand  aught  of  the  devoted  things." 

GEMARA :  To  what  use  can  such  a  small  quantity  of  pepper 
be  put  ?     It  may  be  used  by  one  whose  breath  is  foul. 

"  For  tar.''  For  what  purpose  can  tar  in  so  small  a  quantity 
be  used  ?  It  may  be  used  by  one  who  has  the  sickness  Tzilcha- 
thah  (an  illness  where  only  one-half  of  the  head  aches). 

''For  different  kinds  of  spices.''     The    rabbis  taught:    Thr 
prescribed  quantity  both  for  aromatic  spices  as  well  as  for  ill 
smelling  oils  is  the  same  (least  possible  quantity) ;  for  purple  dy< 
also  the  same,  and  for  roses  only  one  rosebud. 

"  And  metals."  Of  what  use  are  they  ?  We  have  learned, 
R.  Simon  b.  Elazar  said:  They  can  be  used  to  make  a  goad. 

The  torn  pieces  of  the  scroll  of  laws."  Said  R.  Jehudah: 
Book-worms,  silk-worms,  vine-worms,  date-worms,  and  pome- 
granate-worms are  all  dangerous  to  human  life.  There  was  a 
disciple  sitting  before  R.  Johanan  eating  dates,  and  the  disciple 
said  to  him:  "  Rabbi,  there  are  thorns  in  the  dates."  Said  the 
rabbi:  "  The  date- worm  (Pah)  has  killed  this  man." 

MISHNA  VII. :  One  who  carries  the  chest  of  a  spice  dealer 
is  liable  for  one  sin-offering  only,  although  there  may  be  many 
spices  in  the  chest.  The  prescribed  quantity  for  garden  seeds 
is  the  equivalent  in  size  to  a  dried  fig.  R.  Jehudah  b.  Bathyra 
said  :  Five  different  seeds.  The  prescribed  quantity  for  cucumber 
seeds  are  two,  for  pumpkin  seeds  the  same,  for  Egyptian  beans 
the  same;  a  living  locust  (which  maybe  eaten),  be  it  ever  so 
small,  must  not  be  carried,  but  dead  locusts  may  be  carried  in 
quantities  less  than  a  dried  fig.  The  prescribed  quantity  for 
vineyard  birds*  living  or  dead  is  the  smallest  possible  quantity, 
because  they  were  preserved  for  medicinal  purposes.  R.  Jehudah 
said :  One  must  not  carry  out  a  living  locust,  (which  must  not  be 
eaten),  be  it  ever  so  small,  because  such  locusts  were  kept  as 
playthings  for  small  children. 

GEMARA:  "Cucumber  seeds."     The  rabbis  taught:  The 

*  None  of  the  commentators  can  explain  what  kind  of  birds  is  meant. 


lyo  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

prescribed  quantity  for  seeds  used  for  planting  is  two,  but  for 
seeds  used  for  food  it  is  the  equivalent  of  a  pig's  mouthful. 
How  much  is  a  pig's  mouthful  ?  The  seeds  of  one  cucumber. 
For  cucumber  seeds  used  as  fuel  the  prescrbed  quantity  is  as 
much  as  will  suffice  to  cook  an  egg;  for  cucumber  seeds  used 
as  counters  (for  figures)  only  two.  Anonymous  teachers  say 
five. 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  who  carries  two  hairs  from  the  tail 
of  a  horse  or  a  cow  is  culpable,  because  the  hairs  are  always 
preserved  for  making  nets.  The  prescribed  quantity  for  hog 
bristles  is  only  one ;  for  willows  (used  for  wickerwork)  two ;  for 
tree-bark  *  one  strip. 

"  R.  Jehudah  says :  A  locust  {which  must  not  be  eaten),'"  etc. 
Why  did  not  the  first  Tana  of  the  Mishna  mention  this  ?  Because 
in  his  opinion  it  is  forbidden  to  carry  it  even  on  week-days,  lest 
one  eat  it.  If  such  is  the  case,  why  should  an  eatable  locust  be 
allowed  to  be  carried  ?  Did  not  R.  Kahana  stand  before  Rabh 
and  a  small  locust  lighted  on  his  lips:  Rabh  said  to  him.  (R. 
Kahana),  Take  it  away,  lest  people  say  that  thou  hast  eaten  it 
and  thou  hast  violated  the  commandment  [Leviticus,  xi.  43]: 
"Ye  shall  not  make  yourselves  abominable  with  any  creeping 
thing  that  creepeth  "  ?  Nay;  there  was  no  fear  that  the  locust 
would  be  eaten  alive,  but  they  apprehended  lest  it  die  and  then 
be  eaten.  (An  eatable  locust  would  not  matter,  but  an  uneat- 
able locust  would  be  a  violation  of  the  law.)  If  that  is  the  case, 
why  does  R.  Jehudah  permit  this  ?  R.  Jehudah  holds  that  there 
is  no  fear  of  the  locust  being  eaten  when  dead,  as  the  child  will 
mourn  its  death. 

*  Rashi  declares  in  his  commentary  that  he  does  not  know  what  it  is  nor  for  what 
purpose  it  is  used.     See  Aruch. 


CHAPTER  X. 

FURTHER    REGULATIONS    CONCERNING    THE    PRESCRIBED    QUANTITY 
OF    THINGS    TO    BE    STORED. 

MISHNA  /.  :  One  who  had  stored  anything  for  planting, 
sampling,  or  medicinal  purposes  (before  the  Sabbath)  and  carried 
some  of  it  out  (into  public  ground)  on  the  Sabbath,  be  it  ever 
so  small  a  quantity,  is  liable  for  a  sin-offering.  Any  one  else, 
however,  is  culpable  only  then  if  (he  carried  out)  the  prescribed 
quantity.  Even  the  one  who  had  stored  is  culpable  only  for  the 
prescribed  quantity,  if  he  brought  the  thing  carried  out  by  him 
back  (to  private  ground). 

GEMARA :  For  what  purpose  is  it  said  in  the  Mishna,  "  One 
who  stored  anything"  ?  Would  it  not  be  sufificient  to  say, 
"  One  who  carried  out  things  intended  for  planting,  sampling, 
or  medicinal  purposes,  be  the  quantity  ever  so  small,  is  cul- 
pable "  ?  Said  Abayi :  The  Mishna  treats  of  the  case  of  a  man 
who,  after  storing  the  thing,  forgot  for  what  purpose  he  had 
stored  it,  and  then  carried  it  out  into  the  street  for  any  purpose 
whatever.  Lest  one  say  that  the  original  intention  (to  store  it) 
is  abolished,  and  now  the  thing  carried  out  has  for  him  only  the 
same  value  as  for  others,  and  he  would  be  culpable  only  for  carry- 
ing out  the  regularly  prescribed  quantity,  it  comes  to  teach  us 
that  one  who  commits  a  deed  executes  his  original  intention. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  R.  Meir  declares 
one  who  carried  out  only  a  single  wheat  grain,  intended  for 
sowing,  culpable.  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  The  Mishna  taught : 
"  Be  it  ever  so  small."  One  might  presume  that  the  term  "  be 
it  ever  so  small  "  denotes  something  smaller  than  a  dried  fig  but 
not  smaller  than  an  olive.  R.  Meir  therefore  informs  us  (that 
it  refers  even  to  one  wheat  grain).  R.  Itz'hak,  the  son  of  R. 
Jehudah,  opposed  this:  "  (We  see  that)  the  Mishna  declares  one 
culpable  for  an  act  originally  intended  to  be  performed,  but  now, 
supposing  a  man  intended  to  carry  out  his  entire  household  at 
once;  is  he  then  not  culpable  until  he  had  accomplished  the 
entire  task,  even  if  he  had  carried  out  part  of  it  ? "     The  answer 

171 


172  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

was:  If  a  man  has  an  absurd  intention  it  is  abolished  by  the  law, 
and  he  is  culpable  for  carrying  out  the  prescribed  quantity. 

"  Any  one  else,  however,"  etc.  Our  Mishna  is  not  in  accord- 
ance with  that  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  (on  page  145). 

Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  said :  "  If  one  carried  out 
a  thing  the  size  of  a  dried  fig  with  the  intention  of  eating  it,  but 
changed  his  mind  in  the  meantime  and  then  intended  to  sow  it, 
or,  on  the  contrary,  first  intended  to  sow  it  and  then  to  eat  it,  he 
is  culpable.  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  The  prescribed  quantity 
for  both  eating  and  sowing  was  carried.  Lest  one  say  that  the 
removing  and  the  depositing  of  a  thing  must  be  done  with  the 
very  same  intention  in  order  to  make  one  culpable,  which  is  not 
so  in  this  case,  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  he  is  culpable. 

*'  If  he  brought  the  thing,''  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  (for 
he  did  not  sow  it,  we  then  see  that  his  original  intention  is  abol- 
ished). Said  Abayi:  "  The  Mishna  speaks  of  a  case  where  the 
man  took  the  thing  brought  from  his  house,  and  threw  it  into 
the  place  where  his  full  supply  was  kept,  and  the  place  where  he 
threw  it  remained  conspicuous.  Lest  one  say,  if  the  place  is 
conspicuous,  his  original  intention  is  not  yet  abolished,  because 
he  took  the  same  thing  again,  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  the 
throwing  of  the  thing  among  his  other  supplies  annulled  his 
original  intention. 

MISHNA  //. :  If  one  intended  to  carry  out  victuals  and 
deposited  them  on  the  doorstep,  whether  he  afterward  carried 
them  out  (into  the  street)  himself,  or  this  was  done  by  some  one 
else,  he  is  not  culpable,  because  he  did  not  accomplish  the  deed 
at  one  time.  If  one  deposited  a  basket  of  fruit  on  the  outside 
doorstep,  even  if  the  bulk  of  the  fruit  was  on  the  outside  (in 
the  street),  he  is  not  culpable,  unless  he  carried  out  the  entire 
basket  (into  the  street). 

GEMARA:  What  kind  of  a  doorstep  does  the  Mishna  have 
reference  to  ?  Should  we  assume  that  the  doorstep  was  public 
ground,  how  can  the  man  be  not  culpable  ?  He  carried  out 
from  private  into  public  ground.  Should  we  assume  that  the 
doorstep  was  private  ground,  why  does  the  Mishna  teach  that 
if  he  carried  it  out  (into  the  street),  or  any  one  else,  he  is  not 
culpable  ?  It  is  again  a  case  of  carrying  out  from  private  into 
public  ground  ?  We  must  therefore  assume  that  the  doorstep 
was  unclaimed  ground,  and  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  only  when 
the  victuals  were  deposited  on  the  unclaimed  ground  the  man 
is  not  culpable,  but  if  they  had  been  carried  out  from  private 


TRACT    SABBATH.  173 

into  public  ground,  even  by  way  of  unclaimed  ground,  he  is 
culpable.  And  the  Mishna  does  not  agree  Avith  the  opinion 
of  Ben  Azai,  of  the  following  Boraitha:  "  One  who  carries  out 
from  his  store  into  the  market  by  way  of  the  alley  is  culpable, 
but  Ben  Azai  says  he  is  not." 

"  If  one  deposited  a  basket  of  fruit,"  etc.  Said  Hyzkiyah: 
The  case  in  question  treats  only  of  a  basket  filled  with  cucumbers 
and  beets,  but  if  full  of  mustard  seeds  he  is  culpable.  From 
this  we  see  that  Hyzkiyah  considers  a  vessel  no  support*  {i.e., 
the  cucumbers  are  encircled  by  the  basket  and  need  no  support), 
but  the  mustard  seeds,  which  are  heaped  up,  are  outside  of  the 
basket  proper  and  not  supported  by  it ;  therefore,  when  the  basket 
with  mustard  seeds  is  carried  outside,  part  of  the  mustard  seeds 
are  already  on  the  outside  and  the  carrier  is  culpable.  R. 
Johanan,  however,  says,  even  if  the  basket  contained  mustard 
seeds,  he  is  also  not  culpable.  Thence  we  see  that  R.  Johanan 
does  consider  a  vessel  a  support.  Said  R.  Zera:  "  How  is  it 
with  the  Mishna  ?  It  is  neither  of  the  opinion  of  Hyzkiyah  nor 
of  R.  Johanan."  Hyzkiyah  may  explain  it  in  accordance  with 
his  theory  and  R.  Johanan  with  his  own.  Hyzkiyah  explains  the 
Mishna,  which  said  "  unless  he  carries  out  the  entire  basket." 
This  is  the  case  if  the  basket  is  filled  with  cucumbers  and  beets, 
but  if  filled  with  mustard  seeds  it  is  equal  to  putting  out  the 
entire  basket  into  the  street,  and  he  is  culpable,  but  R.  Johanan 
explained  the  Mishna  thus:  Although  the  bulk  of  the  fruit  is 
on  the  outside,  or  even  if  all  the  fruit  were  on  the  outside,  the 
man  would  not  be  culpable  unless  the  entire  basket  was  put  on 
the  outside.  So  also  said  Rabha:  The  Mishna  treats  only  of  a 
basket  filled  with  cucumbers  and  beets,  but  if  filled  with  mustard 
seeds  the  man  is  culpable.  Whence  we  see  that  he  does  not 
consider  a  vessel  a  support.  Abayi,  however,  said :  Even  if  the 
basket  contained  mustard  seeds,  the  man  is  also  not  culpable. 
Whence  we  see  that  he  does  consider  a  vessel  a  support.  Shall 
we  say  that  Abayi  adopted  the  system  of  Rabha  and  Rabha  of 
Abayi,  or  Abayi  contradicts  himself  and  Rabha  does  the  same  ? 
As  it  was  taught :  One  who  carried  out  fruit  into  public  ground, 
Abayi  said,  is  culpable  only  if  he  carried  it  out  with  his  hand 
(although  the  body  remained  in  public  ground),  but  if  in  a  vessel 
he  is  not  culpable.  (Why  ?  Because  Abayi  does  not  consider 
the  body  a  support  to  the  hand,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the 

*  The  Talraudical  term  for  "  support  "is  "  Agad,"  literally  "  bind."  In  the  above 
the  sense  demands  its  rendition  by  "  support." 


174  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

hand  is  attached  to  the  body,  but  if  he  carried  out  the  fruit  in  a 
vessel  and  part  of  the  vessel  still  remained  in  private  ground, 
he  is  not  culpable.)  And  Rabha  says,  on  the  contrary:  If  he 
carried  the  fruit  out  in  his  hand  he  is  not  culpable  (because 
he  considers  the  body  a  support  and  the  hand  is  part  of  the 
body),  but  if  he  carried  it  out  in  a  vessel  he  is  culpable  (be- 
cause, although  the  vessel  is  still  in  private  ground,  some  of 
the  fruit  is  in  public  ground).  The  answer  is:  Reverse  the 
case.  (Say  Abayi's  statement  should  be  Rabha's  and  Rabha's 
Abayi's). 

MISHNA  ///. :  One  who  carries  out  anything  in  the  right 
or  in  the  left  hand  or  in  his  bosom  or  on  his  shoulder  is  culpable, 
as  so  was  the  manner  in  which  the  sons  of  Kehath  carried  (their 
burdens).*  But  one  who  carries  out  a  thing  on  the  back  of  his 
hand  or  with  his  foot,  with  his  mouth,  with  his  elbow,  with 
his  ear,  with  his  hair,  with  his  waist  bag,  the  opening  of  which 
is  at  the  bottom,  or  between  his  belt  and  his  shirt,  with  the  edge 
of  his  shirt,  with  his  shoe  or  sandal,  is  not  culpable,  because  he 
carries  it  in  an  unusual  manner. 

GEMARA:  R.  Elazar  said:  "  One  who  carries  out  a  burden 
ten  spans  above  the  ground  [not  on  his  shoulder,  but  in  the  air] 
is  culpable,  because  in  this  manner  the  sons  of  Kehath  carried 
their  burdens."  Whence  do  we  know  that  the  sons  of  Kehath 
carried  their  burdens  in  this  way  ?  It  is  written  [Numb.  iii.  26]: 
"Which  is  by  the  tabernacle  and  by  the  altar  round  about." 
Hence  he  compares  the  tabernacle  to  the  altar.  As  the  taber- 
nacle was  ten  ells,  so  was  also  the  altar  ten  ells ;  and  whence  do 
we  know  that  the  tabernacle  itself  was  ten  ells  ?  Because  it  is 
written  [Ex.  xxvi.  16]:  "  Ten  ells  shall  be  the  length  of  the 
boards."  Or  we  may  say  that  we  know  that  the  sons  of  Kehath 
carried  their  burdens  in  this  manner  from  the  ark,  as  the  Master 
said :  The  ark  was  nine  spans  high,  and  with  the  cover,  which 
was  one  span  higher,  it  was  ten.  Experience  is  to  the  effect 
that  when  a  burden  was  carried  on  the  shoulders  by  means  of 
poles,  one-third  of  the  burden  was  above  the  poles  and  two- 
thirds  below ;  then  as  the  ark  was  ten  spans  high  and  one-third 
of  it  was  carried  above  the  shoulders,  it  was  certainly  more  than 
ten  spans  above  the  ground. 

But  let  it  be  inferred  from  Moses  himself,  of  whom  it  is  said 
elsewhere  that  he  was  very  tall.     With  Moses  the  case  is  differ- 

*  Numtj.  iv. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  175 

eiit ;  as  the  Master  said  elsewhere  that  the  Shekhina  does  not  rest 
upon  a  man  unless  he  is  a  scholar,  a  strong,  rich,  or  tall  man. 

It  was  taught:  One  who  carries  a  burden  on  his  head  is  not 
culpable.  And  if  one  will  say  that  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  of 
Hutzal  do  so,  we  may  assume  that  their  deed  is  abolished  by  the 
rest  of  mankind,  who  do  not  carry  burdens  on  their  heads. 

MISHNA  IV.  :  One  who  intends  to  carry  something  in  front, 
but  the  thing  moved  to  his  back,  is  not  culpable,  but  if  he  intends 
to  carry  it  on  his  back  and  it  moves  to  the  front  he  is.  Of  a 
truth  it  was  said :  A  woman  who  wears  a  girdle,  whether  she 
carries  something  in  the  front  or  in  the  back  of  it,  is  culpable, 
because  the  girdle  invariably  turns  around.  R.  Jehudah  says  the 
same  rule  applies  to  letter-carriers. 

GEMARA  :  Where  is  the  difference?  The  main  object  (here 
is  the  intention).  And  in  cither  case  his  intention  was  not  carried 
out ;  why  is  he  not  culpable  if  the  thing  moved  from  the  front  to 
the  back  and  culpable  if  it  moved  from  the  back  to  the  front  ? 
Said  R.  Elazar  :  "  Divide  the  Mishna  into  two  parts.  The  second 
part  was  not  taught  by  the  same  Tana  as  the  first."  Said  R.  Ashi : 
"  This  is  no  question  at  all.  Perhaps  the  Mishna  may  be  explained 
thus :  Not  only  did  the  man  intend  to  carry  it  on  his  back  and 
did  so,  which  would  make  him  culpable,  because  his  intention  was 
carried  out,  but  even  if  he  intended  to  carry  it  on  his  back  and  it 
moved  to  the  front,  in  which  case  his  intention  was  not  carried 
out,  lest  one  say  that  then  he  is  not  culpable,  it  comes  to  teach 
us  that  when  one  intends  to  preserve  the  thing  with  little  safety, 
and  it  occurs  that  he  has  done  so  with  a  proper  safety,  he  is  ben- 
efited by  it ;  hence  he  is  culpable." 

*'0/a  truth  it  was  said.''  There  is  a  Boraitha  :  Where  fcr  it 
is  said  "  Of  a  truth  it  was  said,"  it  is  to  be  considered  that  so  the 
Halakha  prevails. 

'■^R.  Jehudah  says  the  same  rule  applies  to  letter-carriers''  A 
Boraitha  in  addition  to  it  states  that  so  it  is  because  the  carriers 
of  the  government  usually  do  so. 

MISHNA  V.  :  One  who  carries  out  a  large  loaf  of  bread  into 
public  ground  is  culpable.  If  two  persons  do  this  together  they 
are  both  innocent,  provided  it  could  be  done  by  one  of  them ;  if, 
however,  they  did  so  because  it  could  not  be  done  by  one,  both 
are  culpable.     R.  Simeon,  however,  declares  them  not  culpable. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  according 
to  others  Abayi  said,  and  still  others  say  that  it  was  learned  in  a 
Boraitha :  "  If  of  both  men  who  carried  the  loaf,  either  was  able 


176  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

to  carry  it  himself,  R.  Meir  makes  them  both  culpable,  but  R.  Je- 
hudah  and  R.  Simeon  declare  them  both  innocent.  If,  of  the  two, 
neither  was  able  (to  do  it  himself),  R.  Jehudah  and  R.  Meir  declare 
them  culpable  and  R.  Simeon  declares  them  free.  If  one  of  the 
two,  however,  was  able,  and  the  other  unable,  all  agree  that  the 
able  man  is  culpable."  Whence  is  all  this  deduced  ?  From  what 
the  rabbis  taught :  It  is  written  [Lev.  iv.  2]  :  "  If  any  person  sin," 
etc.,  i.e.,  if  he  committed  the  whole  deed  but  not  a  part  of  it. 
How  so?  If  two  persons  held  one  pitchfork  and  threw  grain  with 
it,  or  a  weaver's  spindle  and  wove  with  it,  or  a  quill  and  wrote 
with  it,  or  a  reed  and  carried  it  into  public  ground,  one  might  say 
that  they  are  culpable.  It  is  written  [ibid.]  :  "  If  any  person  sin," 
etc.  But  if  two  persons  held  a  date-press,  or  a  log,  and  carried 
them  out  into  public  ground,  R.  Jehudah  says,  if  one  of  the  two 
was  not  able  to  carry  it  himself  and  they  both  carried  it,  they  are 
both  culpable,  but  if  either  of  them  was  able,  both  are  not  culpa- 
ble. R.  Simeon  says,  even  if  one  alone  is  not  able  to  carry  it  and 
they  carried  it  out  together,  they  are  also  free.  For  only  referring 
to  such  an  instance  the  Scriptures  say  :  "  If  any  person,"  etc.,  and 
it  is  plain  that  one  is  culpable  if  he  performs  work  alone,  but  if 
two  persons  did  one  thing  they  are  both  free. 

The  master  said  :  If  one  of  the  two  was  able  to  perform  the 
work  alone  and  the  other  unable,  all  agree  that  he  is  culpable. 
Which  of  them  was  culpable  ?  R.  Hisda  said,  the  one  who  was 
able.  As  to  the  one  who  was  unable,  why  should  he  be  so  ?  What 
did  he?  Said  R.  Hamnuna  to  R.  Hisda:  "Why  not?  Did  he 
not  assist  the  one  who  was  able  ?  Answered  R.  Hisda :  Assisting 
is  not  of  consequence  (because  if  he  alone  is  not  able  to  perform 
the  work  himself,  his  assistance  is  of  no  value).  Said  R.  Zbid  in 
the  name  of  Rabha :  "  We  have  also  learned  in  a  Boraitha  in  sup- 
port of  this  argument :  If  one  suffering  from  a  venereal  disease 
rides  an  animal,  the  feet  of  which  are  encased  in  four  pieces  of 
cloth,  the  pieces  of  cloth  are  not  subject  to  defilement,  for  the 
reason  that  the  animal  is  able  to  stand  on  three  feet."  Why  are 
they  not  subject  to  defilement  ?  Was  not  one  foot  a  help  to  the 
other  three?  Hence  we  must  assume  that  one  of  the  feet  must 
be  regarded  as  a  help  to  the  other  three;  a  mere  help,  however, 
not  having  any  legal  consequence  cannot  become  defiled,  and  as 
it  is  impossible  to  determine  which  one  of  the  three  feet  is  to  be 
regarded  as  a  help,  all  four  pieces  of  cloth  encasing  them  are  not 
subject  to  defilement. 

Again  the  master  said :  If  either  of  the  two  were  able,  R. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  177 

Meir  holds  them  both  to  be  culpable.  The  schoolmen  propounded 
a  question  :  "  Must  the  object  carried  out  by  them  be  of  double 
the  prescribed  size,  i.e.,  a  prescribed  size  for  each  of  them,  in  order 
to  make  them  culpable,  or  does  the  prescribed  size  for  one  man 
suffice  to  make  them  both  culpable  ?  R.  Hisda  and  R.  Hamnuna 
(both  answered) :  One  of  them  held  that  one  prescribed  size  suf- 
fices, and  the  other  that  it  must  be  double  in  order  to  make  them 
culpable,  (and  it  is  known  which  of  them  held  to  the  former  opin- 
ion and  which  to  the  latter).  Said  R.  Ashi :  "  We  have  also 
learned  in  a  Boraitha  :  '  Two  men  who  carried  out  a  reed  used  by 
a  weaver  (into  the  street)  are  both  culpable.'  Why  so  ?  Was  not 
double  the  prescribed  quantity  necessary  in  order  to  make  both 
culpable?  Hence  we  must  assume  that  the  Boraitha  holds  one 
prescribed  quantity  to  be  sufficient."  Said  R.  Aha,  the  son  of 
Rabba,  to  R,  Ashi :  "  What  proof  do  you  derive  from  this 
Boraitha?  Perhaps  it  refers  to  a  reed  that  was  of  sufficient  size 
to  cook  an  egg  for  one  and  another  for  the  other?"  R.  Ashi 
answered  :  If  such  were  the  case,  the  Boraitha  would  say  merely 
a  "  reed  "  and  not  a  "  reed  used  by  a  weaver."  Said  R.  Aha  again  : 
"  Perhaps  the  Boraitha  refers  to  a  reed  of  sufficient  size  to  weave 
a  napkin  each  for  both  of  them  ?  Therefore  it  were  better  to  say 
that  from  this  Boraitha  we  can  derive  no  support  either  for  one 
opinion  or  the  other." 

A  certain  scholar  taught  in  the  presence  of  R.  Na'hman:  *'  Two 
men  who  carried  out  a  reed  used  by  a  weaver  (into  the  street)  are 
both  not  culpable."  R.  Simeon,  however,  declares  them  culpable. 
How  can  this  be?  (Is  this  not  contrary  to  R.  Simeon's  usage?; 
Read  then  (on  the  contrary),  the  scholars  said  they  are  culpable 
and  R.  Simeon  said  they  are  not. 

MISHNA  VI.  :  If  one  carry  victuals  of  less  than  the  pre- 
scribed quantity  in  a  vessel  (out  into  the  street)  he  is  not  culpable 
even  of  (carrying)  the  vessel,  for  the  vessel  is  of  no  consequence 
to  the  victuals.  If  he  carried  a  person  on  a  litter  he  is  not  culpa- 
ble even  of  (carrying)  the  litter,  because  the  litter  is  of  no  conse- 
quence to  the  person.  If  he  carried  a  corpse  on  a  cot  he  is  cul- 
pable. The  same  is  the  case  if  (he  carries)  a  part  of  the  corpse  of 
the  size  of  an  olive  or  of  a  carcass  the  size  of  an  olive  and  of  a 
reptile  the  size  of  a  lentil.     R.  Simeon  declares  all  of  them  free. 

GEMARA  :  The  rabbis  taught :  "  If  a  man  carry  out  victuals 

of  the  prescribed  quantity  in  a  vessel,  he  is  culpable  of  carrying 

the  victuals,  but  not  of  (carrying)  the  vessel,  because  the  vessel  is 

of  no  consequence  to  the  victuals  ;  but  if  the  victuals  are  such  that 

VOL.  I. — 12 


178  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

they  cannot  be  carried  otherwise  than  in  a  vessel,  he  is  culpable 
of  (carrying)  the  vessel  also."  Shall  we  assume  from  this  teach- 
ing that  if  one  ate  two  pieces  of  tallow  each  the  size  of  an  olive  at 
different  times  through  forgetfulness(and  was  not  reminded  of  his 
sin  between  both  times  of  eating),  he  is  bound  to  bring  two  sin- 
offerings  ?  Said  R.  Ashi :  In  the  case  of  the  man  who  is  culpable 
of  (carrying)  both  the  victuals  and  the  vessel,  it  must  be  assumed 
that  he  carried  them  through  forgetfulness  and  was  subsequently 
reminded  of  having  carried  only  one  of  them  (but  forgot  about  the 
other)  ;  later  he  was  reminded  of  having  carried  the  other  also,  and 
according  to  the  opinion  of  the  teacher  of  this  Boraitha,  he  is  cul- 
pable and  bound  to  bring  two  sin-offerings,  one  for  each  time  he 
was  reminded.  The  same  difference  of  opinion  exists  here  as  we 
have  seen  existed  between  R.  Johanan  and  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish 
(in  the  chapter  concerning  the  general  rule  of  Sabbath). 

''  If  he  carried  a  person  in  a  litter,''  etc.  Shall  we  assume  that 
the  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Nathan  and  not  with  the 
rabbis  of  the  following  Boraitha?  "  If  one  carried  out  an  animal 
or  a  bird  (into  the  street),  whether  alive  or  slaughtered,  he  is 
liable."  R.  Nathan,  however,  says  :  "  For  (carrying  out)  a  slaugh- 
tered (animal  or  bird)  he  is  culpable,  but  not  for  one  that  is  alive, 
because  a  live  creature  carries  itself."  Said  Rabha  :  "  It  may  be 
said  the  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  the  rabbis  of  the  Boraitha 
cited,  as  they  differ  with  R.  Nathan  only  concerning  animals  or 
birds,  which  usually  struggle  to  get  loose  and  thus  become  a  bur- 
den ;  but  concerning  a  person,  who  is  carried  and  agrees  to  being 
carried,  and  virtually  carries  himself,  the  rabbis  yield  to  R. 
Nathan." 

Said  R.  Ada  b.  Ahba  to  Rabha :  How  will,  in  your  opinion, 
the  statement  in  our  Mishna  be  made  plain  :  "  Ben  Bathyra  per- 
mits the  selling  of  a  horse  to  a  Gentile,  and  a  Boraitha,  in  addition 
to  this,  states  that  the  reason  that  Ben  Bathyra  permits  this  is 
because  the  Gentile  will  not  perform  any  work  with  the  horse  on 
a  Sabbath  that  would  involve  the  liability  of  a  sin-offering  (for  a 
horse  is  used  for  riding  only,  and  when  a  person  rides  a  horse  the 
person  virtually  carries  himself,  and  hence  is  no  burden  to  the 
horse),  and  R.  Johanan  says  that  Ben  Bathyra  and  R.  Nathan  said 
(practically)  the  same  thing."  Now,  if  in  your  opinion  the  rabbis 
differ  with  R.  Nathan  only  in  the  matter  of  animals  and  birds, 
because  when  carried  they  struggle  for  freedom,  but  agree  Avith 
him  in  the  matter  of  a  person,  why  does  R.  Johanan  say  that  only 
Ben  Bathyra  and  R.  Nathan  say  the  same  thing?     Did  not  the 


TRACT   SABBATH.  179 

rabbis  also  admit  this?  (The  answer  was  :)  R.  Johanan  said  that 
Ben  Bathyra  in  permitting  a  horse  to  be  sold  to  a  Gentile  referred 
to  one  which  was  used  only  for  carrying  falcons.  Are  there  then 
such  horses  ?     Yea  ;  they  are  to  be  found  at  the  Zaidons'.''* 

R.  Johanan  said  :  Even  R.  Nathan  holds  a  man  culpable  if  he 
carries  a  person,  animal,  or  bird  that  is  bound. 

''If  he  carried  a  corpse"  etc.  Said  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  in  the 
name  of  R.  Johanan,  and  the  same  was  said  by  R.  Joseph  in  the 
name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish  :  R.  Simeon  frees  one,  even  if  he 
carries  out  a  corpse  for  burial.  Said  Rabha :  "  Even  R.  Simeon 
concedes  that  if  one  carry  out  a  spade  to  dig  a  grave  with,  or  a 
scroll  to  read  from,  he  is  culpable."  Is  this  not  self-evident  ? 
Should  we  then  assume  that  according  to  R.  Simeon's  opinion 
even  this  kind  of  labor  is  not  labor  for  its  own  sake,'  how  can  we 
find  any  labor  for  its  own  sake  which  in  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon 
would  involve  the  liability  of  a  sin-offering?  Lest  one  say  that 
R.  Simeon  does  not  hold  a  man  culpable  for  carrying  a  thing  un- 
less the  work  done  with  the  thing  is  both  for  the  man's  sake  and 
also  for  the  sake  of  the  thing  itself — for  instance,  if  the  spade  was 
needed  for  digging  and  also  had  to  be  sharpened,  or  the  scroll  had 
to  be  examined  and  used  for  reading — hence  he  informs  us  that 
such  is  not  the  case. 

There  was  a  corpse  in  Drokra  f  and  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak 
permitted  it  to  be  carried  out  into  unclaimed  ground.  Said  R. 
Johanan,  the  brother  of  Mar,  son  of  Rabhina,  to  R.  Na'hman  b. 
Itz'hak :  "According  to  which  Tana's  opinion  do  you  act  ?  Ac- 
cording to  R.  Simeon  ?  Did  R.  Simeon  allow  this  ?  He  only 
stated  that  the  act  does  not  involve  the  liability  of  a  sin-offering, 
but  he  did  not  permit  it  to  start  with?  "  R.  Na'hman  answered : 
By  the  Lord  !  You  yourself,  and  even  R.  Jehudah,  would  allow 
this  to  be  done  the  same  as  I  did  ;  did  I  say  that  it  was  to  be  car- 
ried into  public  ground  ?  I  said  unclaimed  ground  !  Do  not 
forget  that  this  was  also  for  the  sake  of  the  honor  due  a  human 
being,  of  which  it  is  said  :  ''Precious  is  the  honor  of  man,  and  for 
its  sake  even  a  direct  commandment  of  the  Scripture  may  be  cir- 
cumvened!  " 

MISHNA    VII.  :   One  who  pares  his  finger-nails,  either  by 

*  The  text  reads  Vaidon;  Luria  corrects  this  to  read  Zaidon,  as  we  have  adopted, 
which  means  a  falconer's  horse.  Hai,  the  Gaon,  however  corrects  it  Bazaidon, 
because  a  falconer  in  the  Persian  language  is  Baz,  and  one  who  occupies  himself  by 
hunting  for  birds  is  called  Bazaidon. 

f  Name  of  a  city. 


i8o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

means  of  his  nails  or  by  means  of  his  teeth ;  also  one  who  plucks 
hair  from  his  head,  beard,  or  lip ;  also  a  woman  who  braids  her 
hair,  or  paints  her  eyebrows,  or  parts  her  hair,  is,  according  to  R. 
Eliezer,  culpable.  The  sages,  however,  declare  this  to  be  (pro- 
hibited only  by  rabbinical  law)  as  a  precautionary  measure. 

GEMARA :  Said  R.  Elazar :  "  The  difference  of  opinion 
exists  only  in  the  case  of  paring  the  finger-nails  by  means  of 
the  nails,  but  if  taken  ofT  with  an  instrument  (all  agree)  that  he 
is  culpable."  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  Is  it  not  plainly  written 
in  the  Mishna,  if  he  pares  his  finger-nails,  one  by  means  of  the 
others?  One  might  think  that  the  difference  of  opinion  is  also 
concerning  an  instrument,  and  the  reason  the  Mishna  does  not 
mention  an  instrument  is  only  to  show  the  firmness  of  R.  Eliezer 
in  prohibiting  the  paring  of  finger-nails  even  with  one's  own  nails. 
He  informs  us  that  the  difference  of  opinion  is  concerning  the 
nails  only.  R.  Elazar  said  furthermore :  "  The  difference  of  opin- 
ion is  only  concerning  a  man's  paring  his  own  finger-nails,  but  if 
he  pared  another's  all  agree  that  he  is  not  culpable.  (The  reason 
for  this  is  because  when  paring  one's  own  finger-nails  a  man  can 
make  them  look  as  if  trimmed  with  an  instrument,  but  when 
trimming  another's  this  is  not  possible.)"  Is  this  not  self-evident  ? 
Did  not  the  Mishna  say  plainly  :  "  His  own  finger-nails  "  ?  Nay. 
One  might  think  that  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer  the 
trimming  of  another's  finger-nails  also  makes  one  culpable,  but 
the  Mishna,  stating  plainly  "  his  own  finger-nails,"  intends  only 
to  show  the  firmness  of  the  rabbis  in  making  not  culpable  even 
those  who  pare  their  own  nails ;  therefore  he  informs  that  such  is 
not  the  case. 

"Also  one  who  plucks  hair  from  his  head^'  etc.  There  is  a 
Boraitha :  "  One  who  cuts  off  a  scissorsful  of  hair  from  his  head 
on  the  Sabbath  is  culpable."  How  much  is  a  scissorsful  supposed 
to  be?  Two  hairs.  R.  Eliezer  says  :"  One."  The  rabbis  agree 
with  R.  Eliezer  that  in  case  one  gray  hair  is  plucked  from  a  num- 
ber of  black  hairs  a  man  is  culpable  even  for  one,  and  not  only 
on  Sabbath  but  even  on  week  days  it  is  also  prohibited,  as  it  is 
written  [Deut.  xxii.  5] :  "  And  a  man  shall  not  put  on  a  woman's 
garment." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said  :  "  If 
a  finger-nail  become  separated  from  the  finger  of  its  own  accord, 
a  man  may  remove  the  adhering  part,  providing  the  greater  part 
of  the  nail  was  separated.  He  may  do  this  with  his  fingers,  but 
not  with  an  instrument.     If  he  did  it,  however,  with  an  instru- 


TRACT    SABBATH.  i8i 

ment,  he  is  not  liable  for  a  sin-offering.  If  the  smaller  part  only 
was  separated,  he  may  not  remove  it.  If  he  did  so,  however,  with 
his  fingers,  he  is  not  culpable,  but  with  an  instrument  he  is.  Said 
R.  Jehudah  :  "  The  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon 
b.  Elazar."  Said  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan 
"  Provided  the  nail  was  bent  upward  and  was  troublesome." 

"A/so  a  woman  who  braids  her  hair,"  etc.  In  what  category 
can  her  work  be  counted  ?  Said  R.  Abuhu  :  "  It  was  explained  to 
me  by  R.  Jossi  b.  Hanina :  '  Painting  the  eyebrows  comes  in  the 
class  of  work  enumerated  as  dyeing,  braiding,  and  parting  the  hair 
in  the  class  of  building.'  "  Is  this  the  manner  of  building  ?  Yea ; 
as  R.  Simeon  b.  Menassia  taught :  It  is  written  [Gen.  ii.  22]  : 
"  And  the  Lord  God  formed  *  the  rib  which  he  had  taken  from 
the  man."  From  this  may  be  adduced  that  the  Holy  One,  blessed 
be  He,  braided  the  hair  of  Eve  and  brought  her  to  Adam.  For 
in  the  seaports  hair  braiding  and  dressing  is  called  building. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said  : 
"  Braiding  the  hair,  painting  the  eyebrows,  and  parting  the  hair, 
if  done  for  herself,  does  not  make  her  culpable  (because  it  cannot 
be  properly  termed  building)  ;  but  if  done  for  another  it  does 
make  her  culpable."  Furthermore,  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said  in 
the  name  of  R.  EHezer :  "  A  woman  shall  not  put  red  dye  on  her 
face,  because  that  constitutes  painting." 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  milked  a  cow  and  then  made  cheese 
of  the  milk  to  the  size  of  a  dried  fig ;  if  he  swept  a  floor  or  damp- 
ened a  floor  (to  lay  the  dust) ;  or  if  he  removed  honeycombs  from 
a  beehive,  his  case  is  as  follows :  If  he  performed  these  acts  un- 
intentionally on  Sabbath,  he  is  bound  to  bring  a  sin-offering,  and 
if  he  did  all  this  intentionally  on  a  biblical  feast-day,  he  shall 
receive  forty  stripes.  Such  is  the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer,  but  the 
sages  said :  "  All  this  is  only  prohibited  by  rabbinical  law  as  a 
precautionary  measure."  (Says  the  Gemara  :)  Now  the  ordinance 
having  prevailed  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon,  all  these 
acts  are  not  prohibited  at  all. 

MISHNA  VIII. :  One  who  plucks  something  from  a  perfo- 
rated flower-pot  is  culpable ;  from  a  flower-pot  that  is  not  perfo- 
rated he  is  not  culpable.  R.  Simeon  held  him  not  culpable  in 
both  cases. 

Abayi  put  a  contradictory  question  to  Rabha,  according  to 
others  R.  Hyya  b.  Rabh  to  his  father  Rabh :  "  The  Mishna  states 

*  The  Hebrew  word  for  "formed"  is  "  Vayiven,"  literally  "built." 


i82  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

that  R.  Simeon  holds  one  not  culpable  in  either  case.  From  this 
we  see  well  that  to  R.  Simeon  a  perforated  or  a  solid  flower-pot 
is  one  and  the  same  thing.  We  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha  : 
R.  Simeon  said  that  there  is  no  difference  between  a  perforated 
and  a  solid  flower-pot  except  to  make  the  seeds  grown  in  the 
flower-pot  subject  to  defilement  {i.e.,  in  a  solid  flower-pot  the 
seeds  are  not  accounted  as  seeds).  Hence  there  is  a  difference 
between  the  pots  in  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon."  The  answer 
was :  In  all  cases  except  defilement  R.  Simeon  regards  seeds  in 
either  a  perforated  or  a  solid  flower-pot  as  loose  {i.e.,  detached 
from  the  ground).  In  the  case  of  defilement,  however,  it  is  dif- 
ferent, because  the  Scriptures  themselves  added  a  special  provi- 
sion regarding  defilement  of  seeds,  as  it  is  written  [Lev.  xi.  37]  : 
"  And  if  any  part  of  their  carcass  fall  upon  any  sowing-seed 
which  hath  been  sown,  it  shall  be  clean." 


END   OF  VOLUME   I. 


Princeton  Theological  Seminary  Libraries 


1    1012  01249  6867 


iiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniMiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiniiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


