iilllill! 


lilllltllMiaitlMIIJIlillllllHIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIII 


txhravy  of  t:he  Cheolojfcd  ^emmarjp 

PRINCETON  •  NEW  JERSEY 


•a^j> 


PRESENTED  BY 

John  Stuart  Conning,  D.D. 


BM  500  .R6  1918  v. 11-12 
Talmud. 

New  edition  of  the 
Babylonian  Talmud 


NEW    EDITION 


BABYLONIAN  TALMUD 


©riQlnal  Uejt,  ]6Mte&,  Correcteb,  jformulate^,  anD 
UranslateC)  into  Englisb 


BY 

MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


SECTION   JURISPRUDENCE    (DAMAGES) 

TRACT  BABA  METZIA 
(MIDDLE  GATE,  PART  I.) 


Volume  III.  (XL) 


Boston 

THE  TALMUD  SOCIETY 

1918 


EXPLANATORY  REMARKS 

In  our  translation  we  adopted  these  principles: 

1.  Tenan  of  the  original — We  have  learned  in  a  Misboaf  Tania — We  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha;  Itemar — It  was  taught. 

2.  Questions  are  indicated  by  the  interrogation  point,  and  are  immediately 
followed  by  the  answers,  without  being  so  marked. 

3.  When  in  the  original  there  occur  two  statements  separated  by  the  phrase 
Lishna  achrena  or  Wa'ibayith  Aetna  or  Ikha  cfamri  i^ittrsWy,  "otherwise  interpreted  "), 
we  translate  only  the  second. 

4.  As  the  pages  of  the  original  are  indicated  in  our  new  Hebrew  edition,  it  is  not 
deemed  necessary  to  mark  them  in  the  English  edition,  this  being  only  a  translation 
from  the  latter. 

5.  Words  or  passages  enclosed  in  round  parentheses  (  )  denote  the  explanation 
rendered  by  Rashi  to  the  foregoing  sentence  or  word.  Square  parentheses  [  ]  contain 
commentaries  by  authorities  of  the  last  period  of  construction  of  the  Gemara. 


COPYUIGHT,    1903,    BY 

MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON. 


CONTENTS.^ 


Synopsis  of  Subjects  of   Tract   Baba   Kama  (The  First 

Gate) iv 

CHAPTER   IX. 

The  Laws  Relating  to  the  Change  of  the  Name  and 
Nature  of  Stolen  Articles,  and  when  an  Article 
Becomes  Useless.  About  Skilful  Mechanics  who  Spoil 
Work  intrusted  to  Them,  and  as  to  the  Place  to 
which   a  Stolen  Article  must  be  Returned       .         .21' 

CHAPTER  X. 

Regulations  Regarding  Robbed  Articles  which  Remain 
after  the  Death  of  the  Robber. — If  One  Recog- 
nizes HIS  Stolen  Articles  at  the  Premises  of  Some 
One. — Regarding  Robbed  Estates,  afterwards  the 
Government  Took  it  Away,  etc 251 

*  Continuation  of  previoms  volume. 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT  BABA  KAMA  (THE  FIRST 
GATE).* 


CHAPTER   IX. 


MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  If  a  change  on  the  face  of  an  article  gives  title  to  the 
possessor  and  if  it  is  biblically  ?  Would  all  the  above-mentioned  Tanaim 
trouble  themselves  to  teach  us  a  Halakha  of  the  Beth  Shammai  ?  Robbers 
and  usurers,  if  they  make  a  restitution  of  their  own  accord,  it  should  not  be 
accepted,  etc.  There  are  three  cases  in  wrhich  the  increase  is  appraised  and 
the  payment  is  with  money.  I  and  the  King  Sabura  are  brothers  in  regard 
to  court  cases.  (See  foot-note.)  Did  not  I  tell  you.  You  shall  not  change 
names  ?  R.  Joseph  bar  Hama  used  to  compel  slaves  of  his  debtors  to  labor 
for  him,  etc.  What  were  the  coins  of  Jerusalem  and  what  were  the  coins  of 
Abraham  the  patriarch  ?  Labor  which  cannot  be  recognized  on  the  body 
of  the  animal  as  damaging,  the  civil  court  cannot  make  him  liable  for.  Is  a 
germon  considered  a  direct  pecuniary  loss  ?  May  the  court  decide  a  case  of  a 
goring  ox  in  its  absence  ?  If  a  specialist  took  a  thing  to  repair  it  and  he 
spoiled  it.  A  builder  who  undertook  to  take  apart  a  wall,  and  he  broke  the 
stones  or  bricks.  A  butcher  specialist,  if  he  has  spoiled  the  meat  he  is  a  tort- 
feasor, and  is  also  considered  wilful,  etc.  Why  so  many  reasons  ?  "I  think 
your  brain  is  not  in  regular  order."  "  Rabh  did  two  good  things  regarding 
you.  He  prevented  you  from  using  a  doubtful  thing,  and  also  restrained  you 
from  possible  robbery."  There  was  a  woman  who  showed  a  coin  to  R.  Hyya, 
etc.  Resh  Lakish  showed  a  dinar  to  R.  Elazar,  and  he  told  him  it  was  a  good 
one.     He  said  then  :  "See,  I  rely  upon  you,"  etc.,    ....     211-228 

MiSHNAS  IV.  TO  VIZ.  If  one  gave  wool  to  the  dyer,  and  it  was  spoiled. 
To  be  dyed  red,  and  it  is  dyed  black,  or  conversely.  To  make  a  chair  of  it, 
and  he  has  made  a  bench.  Is  the  color  of  the  dyes  to  be  considered  as  exist- 
ing upon  the  wool  or  not  ?  In  one  tract  is  the  order  of  the  Mishna  not  to  be 
taken  in  consideration,  but  in  two  different  tracts  it  must  be  considered  ?  The 
whole  of  Section  Damages  is  considered  as  one  tract.  If  one  has  given  money 
to  his  messenger  to  buy  wheat,  and  he  buys  barley.  If  one  buys  a  field  in 
the  name  of  his  neighbor.     Kahana  paid  money  for  flax.     In  the  mean  time 

*  Continuation  of  previous  volume. 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  v 

the  flax  became  dearer  and  the  seller  sold  it  (for  Kahana's  benefit).  One 
who  has  stolen  the  value  of  a  coin  swears  falsely  and  afterwards  confesses. 
The  same  is  the  case  in  a  deposit.  If  one  has  robbed  one  of  five  persons, 
and  he  does  not  know  which  of  them.  It  happened  with  one  pious  man  who 
bought  of  one  of  two  persons,  and  he  did  not  know  from  which  of  them.  A 
messenger  must  not  be  made  in  his  absence.  It  happened  with  R.  Abba,  who 
was  the  creditor  of  R.  Joseph  bar  Hama,  and  the  former  asked  R.  Safra  to 
bring,  etc.  "  My  master,  do  you  mean  to  deduce  from  this  Scripture  that  it 
must  be  paid,  or  you  say  is  it  common  ?  "  If  one  has  robbed  two  bunches 
of  the  value  of  a  parutha  and  had  returned  one  of  them,  how  is  the  law  ? 
He  who  denies  a  deposit  is  considered  as  a  robber.  As  soon  as  the  owner 
has  taken  an  oath,  he  has  not  to  pay.  One  who  claims  "stolen"  on  a 
deposit,  or  of  a  lost  article  he  has  found,  must  pay  double,  etc.  The  three 
oaths — first,  that  I  have  done  all  my  duty  in  taking  care  of  it ;  second,  that 
I  did  not  make  use  of  it ;  and  third,  that  it  is  not  under  my  control.  If  a 
gratuitous  bailee  swore  it  was  stolen,  and,  nevertheless,  he  paid  :  and  then  the 
thief  was  found.  Where  is  my  bailment?  Lost !  Do  you  swear  by  God  ? 
Amen.  Witnesses  testified  that  he  himself  had  stolen  it.  If  one  robbed  his 
father  and  swore  falsely,  and  after  his  death  he  confessed.  "  I  swear  you  shall 
have  not  any  benefit  from  my  estate."  If  one  robbed  a  proselyte  and  swore, 
and  afterwards  the  proselyte  died.  The  priests  who  receive  the  robbery 
of  the  proselyte,  are  they  considered  heirs,  or  only  receivers  of  a  dona- 
tion ?      228-250 

CHAPTER   X. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V/.  If  one  left  money  made  by  usury  for  his  heirs, 
although  they  know  of  it,  they  are  not  obliged  to  return  it.  The  brother-in- 
law  of  R.  Jeremiah,  who  was  a  minor,  shut  the  door  in  his  face,  etc.  The 
testimony  of  witnesses  can  be  taken  even  in  the  absence  of  the  parties.  May 
a  document  be  approved  even  not  in  the  presence  of  the  party,  or  it  must 
not  ?  It  is  an  obligation  on  the  court  to  give  notice  to  the  defendant  that 
his  property  will  be  sold.  A  messenger  of  the  court  should  be  trusted  as 
two  witnesses,  etc.  One  must  not  be  summoned  by  the  court  on  the  eve  of 
a  Sabbath.  Money  must  not  be  changed  from  the  treasury  of  duties,  etc. 
Why  contractors  of  duty  are  counted  among  murderers.  R.  Ashi  happened 
to  be  on  the  road,  and  saw  a  vineyard  in  which  some  grapes  were  ripe,  etc. 
A  contractor  of  the  government  has  the  right  to  pledge  a  fellow-citizen  for 
the  duty  of  another  citizen  of  the  same  city,  etc.  If  the  contractors  returned 
him  instead  of  his  ass  another  one,  etc.  If  one  saved  an  estate  from  the 
stream  or  from  robbers,  etc.  Are  a  woman  and  a  minor  qualified  to  be 
witnesses  ?  A  child  was  telling :  It  happened  that  my  mother  and  I  were 
prisoners  among  the  heathens,  and  I  did  not  turn  away  my  eyes  from  my 
mother,  etc., 250-262 

MiSHNAS  IV.  TO  VI.  If  one  recognizes  his  utensils  or  books  by  another. 
If  a  thief  has  sold  out  his  stolen  articles,  and  later  it  was  recognized  that  he 
is  the  thief.  If  the  thief  was  a  notorious  one.  If  one  destroys  his  own  goods 
for  the  sake  of  saving  the  goods  of  his  neighbors.  The  redemption  money  of 
a  caravan  in  a  desert  is  to  be  charged  proportionately  to  the  amount  each  of 


vi  SYNOPSIS   OF    SUBJECTS. 

them  possesses,  etc.  If  a  robbed  field  was  taken  away  by  land  robbers. 
There  was  a  man  who  showed  to  the  contractor  a  heap  of  wheat  belonging 
to  the  Exilarch.  There  was  a  man  by  whom  a  silver  goblet  was  deposited, 
he  presented  it  when  he  was  attacked  by  robbers,  .  .  .  262-270 
MiSHNAS  VII.  TO  XII.  If  a  stream  has  overflowed  the  robbed  field.  If 
one  says,  I  have  robbed  you,  and  I  don't  know  if  I  have  returned  it  to  you. 
One  must  not  buy  from  the  shepherds  kids  of  goats,  etc.  And  not  fruits  from 
the  watchman.  One  who  robs  his  neighbor,  even  the  value  of  a  parutha,  is 
considered  as  if  he  would  take  away  his  life.  One  shall  not  buy  from  the 
carder  flocks,  because  they  are  not  his  property.  What  about  the  splinters 
which  fall  out  by  the  carpenter  ? 270-277 


CHAPTER   IX. 

THE  LAWS  RELATING  TO  THE  CHANGE  OF  THE  NAME  AND  NATURE 
OF  STOLEN  ARTICLES,  AND  WHEN  AN  ARTICLE  BECOMES  USE- 
LESS. ABOUT  SKILFUL  MECHANICS  WHO  SPOIL  WORK  INTRUSTED 
TO  THEM,  AND  AS  TO  THE  PLACE  TO  WHICH  A  STOLEN  ARTICLE 
MUST    BE    RETURNED. 

MISHNA  /.  :  If  one  has  stolen  wood  and  made  utensils  of 
it,  or  wool  and  made  garments  of  it,  he  must  pay  only  for  the 
cost  of  the  material  at  the  time  it  was  stolen.  If  one  stole 
a  gravid  cow  and  it  brought  forth  young,  or  a  sheep  with  its 
wool  and  he  sheared  it,  he  must  pay  the  value  of  a  gravid  cow 
in  its  last  month,  or  the  value  of  a  sheep  ready  to  be  sheared; 
if,  however,  the  cow  became  gravid  or  the  sheep  grew  its  wool 
after  the  robbery,  their  value  at  the  time  they  were  stolen  is  to 
be  paid.  This  is  the  rule:  All  robbers  must  repay  the  value  of 
the  article  as  it  was  at  the  time  of  the  robbery. 

GEMARA:  The  Mishna  states:  Utensils  of  wood  or  gar- 
ments  of  wool,  from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  when  the 
utensils  were  not  as  yet  made,  but  only  planned,  or  the  gar- 
ments not  yet  bleached,  the  law  is  otherwise.  Then  there  is 
a  contradiction  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  If  one  has  stolen 
wood  and  planed  it,  stones  and  cut  them,  wool  and  bleached  it, 
flax  and  cleansed  it,  the  payment  for  it  is  to  be  taxed  as  when 
stolen  "  ?  Said  Abayi :  "  The  Tana  of  our  Mishna  states  that 
not  only  an  irremediable  change  makes  the  robber  the  owner  of 
it  so  that  he  must  not  return  the  same,  but  the  value  of  the 
material  when  it  was  stolen,  which  is  biblical ;  but  even  a  remov- 
able change,  e.g.,  planed  wood  of  which  he  made  utensils  that 
can  be  taken  apart  in  such  a  way  that  the  wood  may  remain  in 
the  same  condition  as  when  stolen,  or  spun  wool,  which  can 
also  be  taken  apart,  etc.,  which  change  is  only  rabbinical.  The 
Mishna  comes  to  teach  us,  that  even  in  such  a  case  the  robber 
acquires  title  by  the  change  and  must  pay  only  the  value  of  the 
material."  R.  Ashi,  however,  said:  "  The  Tana  of  our  Mishna 
speaks  also  of  a  change  that  is  biblical.  For  instance,  by  uten- 
1 


212  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD, 

sils  is  meant  even  a  planer  with  which  he  has  only  planed  the 
wood,  and  by  garments  is  meant  unbleached  felt-spreadings 
(which  he  has  only  bleached)  which  change  is  irremediable." 
If  bleaching  is  considered  an  irremediable  change,  it  would  be 
contradictory  of  the  following  Mishna,  which  states:  "  If  one 
had  no  time  to  give  it  to  the  priest  until  it  was  dyed,  then  he 
is  free;  but  when  it  was  only  bleached,  he  must  give  it  to  the 
priest"?  Said  Abayi:  "This  presents  no  difficulty,  as  our 
Mishna  is  in  accord  with  R.  Simeon,  and  the  other  with  the 
rabbis  of  the  following  Boraitha:  If  he  has  the  wool  from  five 
sheep,  a  quantity  of  about  a  pound  and  a  half,  a  part  of  it  would 
go  to  the  priests.  If  some  of  this  quantity  was  already  woven, 
it  does  not  count.  If,  however,  some  of  it  was  only  bleached, 
according  to  the  sages  it  counts,  and  according  to  R.  Simeon  it 
does  not."  Rabha  said:  "  Both  statements  maybe  explained 
in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon,  and  there  i*  no  difficulty,  as  one 
of  them  speaks  of  it  when  it  was  only  scattered,  and  the  other 
one  speaks  of  it  when  it  was  combed  before  bleaching."  R. 
Hyya  bar  Abin  said:  "The  one  speaks  when  it  was  only 
bleached  and  the  other  when  it  was  sulphurated."  Now,  then, 
how  can  bleaching  be  considered  a  biblical  change,  when  even 
dyeing  is  not  considered  a  change,  according  to  R.  Simeon ;  as 
is  stated  in  the  Boraitha  concerning  the  gift  of  the  first  shearing 
to  the  priest,  in  the  case  mentioned  above:  "  Do  not  exclude 
from  the  quantity  even  wool  that  was  already  dyed"?  Said 
Abayi:  "  This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  statement  of  R. 
Simeon,  given  by  R.  Simeon  ben  Jehudah  in  his  name,  that 
dyeing  wool  counts,  is  opposed  to  the  rabbis,  who  declare  that 
R.  Simeon  said  it  does  not  count  (consequently,  one  Boraitha 
is  in  accord  with  R.  Simeon  ben  Jehudah's  statement  and  the 
other  is  in  accord  with  the  declaration  of  the  rabbis)."  Rabha, 
however,  said:  "It  is  not  necessary  to  say  that  the  rabbis  op- 
pose R.  Simeon  ben  Jehudah,  for  dyeing  is  different,  because 
it  can  be  removed  by  oanoov,  and  the  above  statement,  that 
when  it  was  dyed  he  is  free,  speaks  when  it  was  dyed  by 
(faTtGoy,  which  is  not  irremediable." 

Said  Abayi:  All  the  following  Tanaim  agree  with  R.  Sim- 
con's  statement  explained  above,  that  a  change  does  not  give 
title:  Namely,  Beth  Shammai,  as  stated  above (Ch.  VII.  p.  150). 
R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  of  the  following  Boraitha:  R.  Eliezer  ben 
Jacob  said:  If  one  had  stolen  a  saah  of  wheat  and  had  ground, 
kneaded,  and  baked  it,  and  separated  the  heave  of  it,  how  can 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  213 

he  make  a  benediction ;  it  would  be  not  a  benediction  but  a 
blasphemy,  as  it  is  written  [Psahn,  x.  3] :  "  The  robber  blesses 
.  .  .  despises  the  Lord/'  Simeon  b.  Eliezer,  of  the  follow- 
ing Boraitha,  declares  the  following  rule:  Every  increase  that 
was  made  by  the  robber  is  subject  to  his  disposal:  He  may 
keep  it  for  himself,  or  return  it  to  its  owner,  saying:  Here  is 
your  property.  How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  (If  he  may 
say  to  the  one  robbed,  "  Here  is  yours,"  then  it  belongs  to  the 
owner — how,  then,  is  it  at  the  robber's  disposal  ?)  Said  R. 
Shesheth:  He  means  to  say,  if  there  is  an  increase  the  robber 
may  retain  it ;  but  if  there  is  a  decrease,  he  can  say  to  the  one 
robbed,  "It  is  yours,"  because  a  change  in  the  property  does 
not  give  title.  If  so,  why  not  the  same  when  there  is  an  in- 
crease ?  This  is  only  an  enactment  of  the  sages  for  the  benefit 
of  those  who  repent.  R.  Ishmael,  of  the  following  Boraitha: 
The  positive  commandment  to  separate  the  corner  tithe  is  to  be 
performed  by  putting  aside  from  the  standing  corn ;  if  that  has 
not  been  done,  he  may  put  aside  from  the  sheaves;  if  he  had 
neglected  also  from  this,  he  may  do  it  in  the  granary  before  the 
corn  was  threshed;  but  afterwards  he  separates  first  the  Leviti- 
cal  tithe  and  then  the  corner  tithe.  In  the  name  of  R.  Ishmael, 
however,  it  was  said:  "  He  may  separate  the  corner  tithe  and 
give  it  to  the  poor  even  from  the  dough." 

Said  R.  Papa  to  Abayi :  "Would  all  the  above-mentioned 
Tanaim  trouble  themselves  to  teach  us  a  Halakha  of  the  Beth 
Shammai  (which  does  not  prevail  ?),"  and  he  answered:  "  All 
they  mean  to  say,  is  that  Beth  Shammai  and  Beth  Hillel  do  not 
differ  in  this  regard."  Said  Rabha:  Why,  then,  (what  compels 
you  to  teach  that  all  the  Tanaim  hold  that  a  change  is  of  no 
avail)  ?  Perhaps  R.  Simeon  ben  Jehudah's  statement  has  ref- 
erence only  to  a  case  of  dyeing,  as  the  color  can  be  removed  as 
stated  above;  and  the  Beth  Shammai,  because  it  is  not  clean 
enough  for  the  altar,  and  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  could  not  accept 
it  to  pronounce  a  benediction  upon  it,  as  such  a  meritorious  act 
should  not  be  caused  by  a  transgression;  and  R.  Simeon  ben 
Elazar  also,  because  it  can  again  become  fat;  and,  finally,  R. 
Ishmael's  statement  was  made  only  on  the  corner  tithe  as 
there  is  a  superfluous  word  in  the  expression  "  Thou  shalt  leave 
it "  (but  in  any  other  case  they  all  may  agree  that  a  change  is 
of  value).  And  lest  one  say,  that  it  can  be  inferred  from  this 
for  all  the  other  cases,  it  would  not  be  correct,  because  charity 
affairs  are  different,  as  R.  Jonathan  questioned:  "  What  is  the 


214  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

reason  of  it?"  Shall  we  assume  that  R.  Ishmael's  theory  is 
correct,  because  he  holds  that  a  change  does  not  give  title,  or 
perhaps  he  holds  it  here  only  to  be  in  accord  with  the  super- 
fluous word  stated  above,  which  must  be  only  for  the  purpose 
that  this  rule  applies  only  here  as  there  is  not  known  any  other 
purpose  for  it  ?  And  he  questioned  also,  What  will  the  rabbis 
who  opposed  R.  Ishmael  say  in  regard  to  the  superfluous  ex- 
pression in  question  ?  It  can  be  said,  It  is  needed;  for  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  If  one  has  renounced  his 
ownership  of  a  vineyard,  and  then  in  the  morning  he  plucked 
the  grapes,  he  is  exempt  from  cleaning  the  vineyard  and  gather- 
ing every  grape,  forgotten  sheaf,  and  corner  tithe  (because  of 
the  above-mentioned  expression  or  something  similar  to  it  being 
applicable  to  all  these  gifts).  It  is,  however,  exempt  from  tithe. 
Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "The  Halakha  pre- 
vails in  accord  with  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar."  Abayi  taught  the 
same  as  follows:  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  It 
was  said  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Simeon  b. 
Elazar,  but  he  did  not  accept  it. 

R.  Hyya  bar  Abba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  Accord- 
ing to  the  Scripture  a  stolen  thing  is  to  be  returned  whatever  its 
condition  (although  it  is  changed),  as  it  is  written  [Lev.  v.  23]: 
"  He  shall  restore  what  he  has  taken  away  violently,"  no  mat- 
ter how  it  is  now ;  and  there  is  no  wonder  at  the  statement  of 
our  Mishna,  for  it  is  only  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  repent. 
The  rabbis  taught:  Robbers  and  usurers,  if  they  make  restitu- 
tion of  their  own  accord,  it  should  not  be  accepted ;  and  he  who 
does  accept  it,  acts  contrary  to  the  sages.  Said  R.  Johanan : 
This  Mishna  was  taught  in  the  time  of  Rabbi,  as  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  It  happened  that  one  in- 
tended to  repent,  but  his  wife  told  him,  "  If  thou  wilt  do  so, 
then  even  thy  girdle  will  not  belong  to  thee,"  and  so  he  was 
kept  back  from  repenting.  At  this  time  the  statement  of  the 
above  Mishna  was  made.  Come  and  hear:  "  The  repentance  of 
shepherds,  commissioners,  and  the  contractors  of  duties  is  hard 
(because  they  do  not  know  to  whom  to  return  the  stolen  goods); 
and  when  they  nevertheless  do  repent,  they  have  to  return  to 
those  whom  they  know.  (Hence  we  see  that  they  must  re- 
turn ?)  We  can  say:  Yea,  they  must  return,  but  it  should  not 
be  accepted.  Then  what  is  the  use  of  their  returning  ?  To 
satisfy  the  Heavenly  Will.  If  so,  in  what  point  is  the  difficulty 
of  their  repentance  ?    And  also,  how  would  the  last  part  of  this 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  215 

Boraitha  be  understood:  "And  the  remainder,  which  they  do 
not  know  to  whom  to  return,  shall  be  used  by  them  in  provid- 
ing for  the  needs  of  the  community"  ?  And  R.  Hisda  ex- 
plained it  that  it  means,  e.g.,  wells,  excavations,  etc.  Hence 
we  see  that  it  should  be  accepted  ?  Therefore  we  must  say: 
The  above  Boraitha  was  taught  before  the  above-mentioned 
enactment  of  the  sages  was  made.  According  to  R.  Na'hman, 
however,  who  said  that  this  enactment  was  made  in  reference  to 
stolen  articles  which  no  longer  exist,  it  may  be  explained  that 
both  Boraithas  were  taught  after  the  enactment,  and  there  is  no 
contradiction,  as  one  speaks  of  stolen  articles  that  exist,  and  the 
other  of  such  stolen  articles  as  no  longer  exist.  But  was,  then, 
not  the  above-mentioned  enactment  made  in  reference  to  the 
statement  about  the  girdle,  although  it  was  in  existence  ?  Nay, 
it  must  not  be  taken  literally.  It  means  the  value  of  the  girdle. 
But  was  not  the  enactment  made  even  in  reference  to  an  article 
that  exists ;  for  there  is  a  Mishna  that  when  a  stolen  beam  was 
used  for  the  building  of  a  house,  the  one  robbed  could  collect 
its  value  only,  for  the  benefit  of  him  who  repented,  although 
the  beam  still  exists  ?  This  case  is  different,  as  the  robber 
would  suffer  great  damage  by  taking  it  out,  and  therefore  the 
rabbis  consider  it  as  if  it  did  not  exist  at  all. 

"  If  one  has  stolen  a  gravid  coiv,"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught: 
If  one  had  stolen  a  sheep  and  he  had  shorn  it,  or  a  cow  and  she 
brought  forth,  he  must  pay  for  the  animal  itself,  and  also  for 
the  wool  or  the  young.  This  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  R. 
Jehudah  said:  "  A  stolen  thing  must  be  returned  as  it  is  "  (and 
the  value  of  the  wool  or  the  young  as  they  were,  at  the  time  of 
the  robbery,  but  not  the  increase  during  the  time  they  were 
under  his  control).  R.  Simeon,  however,  said:  The  value  of 
the  stolen  article  in  money  when  it  was  robbed  must  always  be 
considered.  The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  What  is 
R.  Meir's  reason  ?  Does  he  hold  that  a  change  is  never  of  any 
avail,  or,  in  other  cases,  agree  that  a  change  gives  title,  but  here 
it  is  only  a  fine  which  should  be  inflicted  on  the  robber,  and  the 
difference  (between  the  two  suppositions  would  be)  when  the 
cow  becomes  thin  (in  the  house  of  the  robber)  ?  Come  and 
hear:  If  one  has  given  wool  to  dye  it  red,  and  it  was  dyed 
black,  or  vice  versa,  said  R.  Meir:  He  must  pay  him  the  value 
of  the  wool.  Hence  only  the  "  value  of  the  wool,"  but  not  for 
the  increase  ?  Now,  if  R.  Meir  is  of  the  opinion  that  a  change 
does  not  give  title,   the  value  of   the  wool  and   the  increase 


2i6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

should  be  paid  ?  Hence  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  he  holds  that 
everywhere  a  change  acquires  title,  and  here  is  only  a  fine  for 
the  robber.  According  to  others,  the  schoolmen  did  not  pro- 
pound the  above  question,  because  Rabh  has  changed  the 
names  in  the  following  Mishna.  If  one  has  stolen  a  cow  or 
slaves,  and  they  become  old  while  under  his  control,  he  must 
pay  according  to  their  value  when  they  were  stolen.  This  is 
the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  The  sages,  however,  say  as  to  slaves,  he 
may  say:  "  Yours  is  before  you."  Hence  we  see  that,  accord- 
ing to  R.  Meir,  a  change  gives  title,  and  here  is  only  a  fine,  and 
if  there  was  any  question  by  the  schoolmen  it  was  this:  Is  the 
fine  only  for  an  intentional  act  or  only  for  an  unintentional  ? 
Come  and  hear  the  Mishna  mentioned  above  concerning  the 
dyeing  of  wool,  that  he  must  pay  only  for  the  wool  and  not  for 
the  increase,  because  there  was  no  intention,  from  which  it  is 
to  be  inferred  that  without  intention  there  is  no  fine.  "  R. 
Jehudah  said  the  stolen  property,"  etc.  What  is  the  difference 
between  R.  Jehudah's  and  R.  Simeon's  statement  ?  Said  R. 
Zbid:  They  differ  when  the  increase  is  still  in  the  stolen  thing. 
According  to  R.  Jehudah,  it  belongs  to  the  one  robbed,  and 
according  to  R.  Simeon  to  the  robber.  R.  Papa  said:  Both 
agree  that  such  an  increase  belongs  to  the  robber  (as  even  R. 
Jehudah  meant  only  it  should  be  returned  as  it  was  at  the  time 
it  was  stolen),  and  the  case  here  held  when  it  was  customary  in 
the  country  to  take  cattle  for  improvement  for  the  reward  of 
half,  third,  or  a  quarter.  According  to  R.  Simeon,  the  robber 
gets  only  the  customary  reward,  but  acording  to  R.  Jehudah 
the  whole  improvement  belongs  to  him.  There  is  a  Boraitha 
which  states  plainly  as  R.  Papa  explained.  Said  R.  Ashi :  When 
we  were  in  the  college  of  R.  Kahana,  we  were  in  doubt  regard- 
ing R.  Simeon's  theory  as  to  the  payment  of  half,  etc.,  for  im- 
provement, whether  he  shall  be  paid  in  money  or  with  its  meat  ? 
Afterwards  we  concluded  from  R.  Na'hman's  statement  in  the 
name  of  Samuel  that  it  means  in  money:  There  are  three  cases 
in  which  the  increase  is  appraised  and  the  payment  is  with 
money,  and  they  are:  A  first-born  pays  the  increase  after  the 
death  of  his  father  to  the  other  brothers ;  the  same  the  creditor 
to  the  buyer,  or  to  the  heirs  (for  the  increase  after  the  time  the 
estates  were  bought  or  after  the  death  of  the  lender).  Said 
Rabbina  to  R.  Ashi :  How  could  Samuel  here  state  that  the 
creditor  must  pay  to  the  buyer  for  the  increase  ?  Did  he  not 
say  that  the  creditor  collects  even  the  increase  ?     And  he  anv 


TRACT   BABA   KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  217 

swered :  This  presents  no  difficulty,  when  we  take  into  consid- 
eration that  there  is  a  difference  between  an  increase  which  is 
not  yet  ripe  (that  in  such  a  case  a  creditor  collects  it)  and  an 
increase  which  is  already  ripe  for  harvest  (which  a  creditor  can- 
not collect).  He  objected:  But  was  it  not  a  fact  that  Samuel's 
court  collected  every  day  even  from  crops  that  were  ripe  for 
harvest  ?  He  answered:  This  also  presents  no  difficulty  when 
the  claim  is  equal  to  the  amount  of  the  field  together  with  the 
increase  (then  the  creditor  collects  the  increase  also).  When 
the  claim  is,  however,  only  for  the  value  of  the  estate  (then  the 
creditor  must  pay  for  the  increase).  Rejoined  the  former:  This 
is  right  according  to  him  who  holds  that  even  when  the  buyer 
has  money  he  cannot  pay  the  creditor  with  money ;  but  accord- 
ing to  him  who  holds  that  when  the  buyer  has  money,  he  can 
pay  the  creditor  with  money  (why  is  it  stated  that  the  creditor 
pays  with  money  for  the  increase  ?)  why  should  not  the  buyer 
(have  the  right  to)  say:  If  I  had  money,  I  would  make  you 
leave  the  estate  entirely.  Now,  when  you  take  it  for  your 
debt,  you  have  the  right  to  take  it  for  your  debt  only;  but  as 
for  the  increase,  would  it  not  be  right  to  leave  for  me  a  part  of 
the  estate?  And  he  answered:  The  case  was  when  the  field 
was  hypothecated  to  the  creditor,  i.e.,  when  the  loan  was 
issued,  he  told  him:  You  have  to  collect  your  debt  from  this 
estate  only. 

Rabha  said :  If  one  has  stolen  an  article,  and  after  improving 
it  sells  or  bequeaths  it,  the  sale  or  the  bequest  is  valid  for  the 
improvement.  He  questioned,  however,  in  case  it  was  im- 
proved by  the  buyer.  How  is  the  law  ?  After  he  questioned 
it,  he  decided :  What  else,  then,  had  the  first  sold  to  the  other, 
if  not  every  right  that  he  might  have  in  this  estate  (so  that  the 
buyer  has  the  same  share  of  the  improvement  as  the  seller 
himself). 

R.  Papa  said :  He  who  stole  a  date  tree  and  cut  it  down,  did 
not  acquire  title,  although  he  removed  it  to  his  own  field.  Why 
so  ?  Because  it  has  even  then  the  same  name  as  before — date 
tree.  It  is  the  same  if  he  cut  it  in  pieces,  for  they  are  still 
called  pieces  of  a  date  tree.  If,  however,  he  has  stolen  pieces 
and  made  beams  of  them,  title  is  acquired;  if  he  has  stolen 
beams  and  made  short  ones  of  them,  title  is  not  acquired;  but 
if  he  has  made  boards  of  them,  title  is  acquired. 

Rabha  said :  If  one  stole  a  palm  branch  and  has  torn  it  in 
single  leaves,  title  is  acquired,  because  it  is  no  more  called  palm. 


2i8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

but  leaves;  for  the  same  reason,  title  is  acquired  when  he  has 
stolen  leaves  and  made  a  broom  of  them.  If,  however,  he  has 
stolen  a  broom  and  made  a  rope,  title  is  not  acquired,  because 
it  can  be  taken  apart  and  a  broom  again  made  of  it.  R.  Papa 
questioned :  If  the  double  leaf  of  the  same  was  divided  (so  that 
it  cannot  be  restored),  how  is  the  law?  Come  and  hear:  R. 
Mathun  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi:  If  the 
double  leaf  is  divided,  it  is  considered  as  if  taken  away,  and  it  is 
invalid  (for  use  of  that  day).  Infer  from  this  that  such  a  change 
gives  title. 

R.  Papa  said :  "  If  one  has  stolen  clay  and  made  bricks  of  it, 
title  is  not  acquired,  because  it  can  be  reduced  again  to  clay; 
conversely,  however,  title  is  acquired,  because,  even  if  he  will 
again  convert  it  into  bricks,  it  will  have  another  appearance  and 
will  be  no  more  the  same  as  it  was  before.  The  same  is  the 
case  if  he  has  robbed  bullion  and  coined  it  into  money.  If, 
however,  he  stole  old  coins  and  had  cleaned  them  that  they 
look  like  new  ones,  title  is  not  acquired ;  but  conversely  it  is, 
because,  even  should  he  clean  them  again,  they  will  still  be 
recognized  as  the  old  ones. 

"  This  is  the  rule,''  etc.  What  does  it  mean  to  add  ?  Such 
a  case  as  that  of  which  R.  Ilai  said:  "  When  one  has  stolen  a 
sheep  and  it  becomes  a  ram,  or  a  calf  and  it  becomes  an  ox,  the 
change  is  considered  as  being  made  while  in  the  possession  of 
the  thief,  and  title  is  acquired  so  that,  if  he  has  slaughtered  or 
sold  it,  it  is  considered  he  has  done  it  with  his  own.  It  hap- 
pened that  one  had  stolen  a  pair  of  oxen,  and  he  ploughed  and 
sowed  his  field  with  them.  Finally,  he  returned  them.  When 
the  case  came  before  R.  Na'hman,  he  said :  Go  and  appraise  the 
increase  he  has  made  with  them.  Said  Rabha  to  him :  Is  the 
increase  of  the  field  caused  only  by  the  oxen,  and  not  by  the 
field  also  ?  And  he  answered :  Did  I  say  the  whole  increase 
shall  be  collected  ?  I  mean  half  of  it  only.  And  he  rejoined : 
After  all,  it  is  no  more  than  a  robbery  of  which  the  rule  is,  "  It 
shall  be  returned  as  it  is."  He  answered  again  :  Did  I  not  tell 
you  that  when  I  am  sitting  in  the  court  you  shall  say  nothing 
to  me;  for  Huna,  my  colleague,  has  said  that  I  and  the  King 
Sabura  are  brothers  in  regard  to  court  cases.*  This  man  is 
known  as  an  old  robber  and  I  want  to  fine  him. 

*  Rashi  says  :  "  It  means  Samuel,  who  was  the  greatest  authority  in  court  cases." 
Abraham  Krochmal,  however,  maintains  that  R.  Na'hman  meant  to  say  that  Huna 
the  Exilarch  had  granted  him  the  power  to  impose  fines  as  he  thought  necessary. 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  219 

MISHNA  //.  :  If  one  has  stolen  cattle  or  slaves,  and  they 
become  old,  he  must  pay  their  value  at  the  time  stolen.  R. 
Meir,  however,  says:  Concerning  slaves  he  may  say:  "Yours 
are  before  you."  If  he  has  stolen  a  coin  and  it  broke,  fruits 
and  they  became  rotten,  wine  and  it  became  sour,  it  is  to  be 
paid  as  at  the  time  robbed;  a  coin  which  afterward  became 
invalid,  heave-offering  and  it  became  unclean,*  or  leaven  which 
was  in  the  hand  of  the  one  robbed  during  Passover,  a  cow  and 
it  was  used  for  sodomy,  or  it  became  invalid  for  the  altar  or  it 
was  condemned  to  be  stoned,  he  may  say:  "Yours  is  before 
you. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Papa:  It  means  not  only  when  it 
became  old,  but  even  when  it  becomes  thin.  But  is  it  not 
stated  plainly  old  ?  This  expression  is  used  to  teach  that  only 
when  it  is  incurable,  as  in  the  weakness  of  old  age.  Said  Mar, 
the  older  son  of  R.  Hisda,  to  R.  Ashi:  It  was  said  in  the  name 
of  R.  Johanan  that  when  one  steals  a  sheep  and  it  becomes  a 
ram,  or  a  calf  and  it  becomes  an  ox,  such  a  change  gives  title; 
and  if  he  slaughters  or  sells  it,  it  is  considered  as  his  own.  And 
he  answered :  Did  not  I  tell  you,  you  shall  not  change  names  ? 
This  was  said  not  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  but  of  R.  Ilai. 
"  R.  Meir  said,"  etc.  R.  Hanina  bar  Abdimi  said  in  the  name 
of  Rabh:  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Meir.  But 
why  did  Rabh  desert  the  majority  in  this  decision  ?  The  reason 
is  because  in  the  Boraitha  the  names  are  changed.  Why,  then, 
has  Rabh  given  preference  to  the  Boraitha,  and  not  to  the 
Mishna,  which  ought  to  be  better  authority  ?  Yea,  when  there 
is  one  Mishna  against  one  Boraitha;  but  there  are  two  Boraithas 
against  one  Mishna  (and  therefore  he  prefers  to  change  the 
names  in  our  Mishna,  that  it  shall  correspond  with  them).  The 
other  Boraitha  is  as  follows:  If  one  has  exchanged  a  cow  for  an 
ass,  and  the  cow  has  brought  forth  young;  or  if  one  has  sold 
a  female  slave  and  she  has  given  birth  ^o  a  child),  and  one  of 
the  parties  said  it  was  born  when  it  was  in  his  control,  and  the 
other  keeps  silent,  the  first  acquired  title  to  it;  when  each  of 
them  says  he  does  not  know,  then  the  value  is  to  be  divided. 

just  as  could  be  done  by  the  king  ;  and  it  seems  to  be  so,  because  R.  Na'hman  did 
not  claim  that  he  had  done  it  according  to  the  law,  but  only  as  a  fine  ;  and  if  this 
Seburmalka  meant  Samuel,  then  it  shows  nothing.  See  Krochmal's  remarks  on  the 
Talmud  (p.  263). 

*  Which,  according  to  the  law,  has  no  more  any  value.  See  Appendix  to  Tract 
Sabbath. 


220  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

But  if  each  of  them  claims  that  it  occurred  when  it  was  under 
his  control,  then  the  seller  has  to  take  an  oath  that  it  was  born 
while  under  his  control  (and  not  the  buyer,  as  there  is  a  rule 
that  all  those  to  whom  a  biblical  oath  is  applied,  they  swear  and 
do  not  pay).  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  The  sages,  how- 
ever, say :  There  is  no  oath,  as  an  oath  is  Jiot  to  be  ordered  in 
cases  of  slaves  or  real  estate.  Hence,  here  also,  is  the  opinion 
of  R.  Meir  that  slaves  are  not  considered  real  estate.  But  if  he 
changes  the  names  in  the  Mishna,  his  statement  ought  to  be 
that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  rabbis  ?  He  meant 
to  say  so:  According  to  you  who  have  changed  the  names,  the 
Halakha  prevails  as  R.  Meir.  But  how  could  Rabh  state  that 
a  slave  is  considered  real  estate  ?  Did  not  R.  Daniel  bar  R. 
Ktina  say  in  his  name:  If  one  has  compelled  a  slave  of  his 
neighbor  to  do  labor  for  him,  he  is  free  from  charges  ?  Now, 
if  you  bear  in  mind  that  a  slave  is  considered  real  estate,  why 
shall  he  not  be  charged  ?  Is  not  the  slave  yet  under  the  control 
of  his  owner  ?  The  case  was  when  not  in  time  of  labor  (that 
one  has  the  benefit  when  the  other  loses  nothing,  and  there  is 
a  decision  above  that  in  such  a  case  he  is  free  from  charges). 
But  would  the  owner  oi  the  slave  be  satisfied  that  his  slave 
should  become  tired,  so  that  it  would  do  harm  to  his  usual 
work  ?  It  can  be  explained  (that  his  owner  has  no  work  for  his 
slave),  and  so  it  is  agreeable  for  him  that  his  slave  shall  not 
become  used  to  idleness.  R.  Joseph  bar  Hama  used  to  compel 
slaves  of  his  debtors  to  labor  for  him.  Said  Rabha,  his  son,  to 
him :  Why  does  the  Master  so  ?  And  he  answered  him :  Be- 
cause R.  Na'hman  said  that  the  labor  of  a  slave  is  not  worth 
even  the  food  he  consumes.  Said  Rabha:  R.  Na'hman  said  so 
because  of  his  slave  Daru,  who  was  dallying  about  the  shops 
and  doing  nothing,  but  not  of  slaves  who  are  working.  And  he 
answered:  I  hold  with  the  statement  made  by  R.  Daniel,  who 
in  the  name  of  Rabh  stated  above.  And  his  son  said  again: 
This  is  said  in  case  the  compeller  has  not  any  claims  against  the 
owners  of  the  slaves;  but  you.  Master,  who  claim  money  from 
their  owners,  it  looks  like  usury,  as  R.  Joseph  bar  Miniumi  said 
in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman:  Although  it  is  said  of  one  who 
lives  on  the  property  of  another  without  his  knowledge  is  not 
obliged  to  pay  rent  therefor,  but  when  he  has  lent  money  to  the 
owner  of  the  property  he  must  pay  him  rent  (that  it  shall  not 
be  considered  as  usury).  Rejoined  his  father:  (You  are  right.) 
I  Will  not  do  it  again- 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  221 

It  was  taught :  If  one  takes  possession  of  another's  ship  and 
makes  use  of  it.  Said  Rabh :  The  owner  may  collect  either  the 
usual  price  of  loaning  it,  or,  if  it  was  damaged  and  the  amount 
of  repairing  surpasses  the  amount  of  hiring,  he  may  collect  even 
this.  Samuel,  however,  said:  If  the  amount  of  the  hiring  sur- 
passes the  amount  of  the  repairing,  he  takes  only  the  latter. 
Said  R.  Papa:  They  do  not  differ.  Rabh  speaks  of  a  case 
where  the  intention  of  the  sailor  was  to  pay  the  value  of  the 
ship,  and  Samuel  speaks  of  a  case  where  the  intention  was  to 
steal  (and  a  stolen  article  is  to  be  returned  as  it  was  when 
stolen,  without  any  increase,  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  re- 
pent). "If  one  has  stolen  a  coin,"  etc.  Said  R.  Huna:  The 
expression  "  broke  "  is  to  be  taken  literally;  the  expression  "  it 
became  invalid  "  means  that  the  government  abolished  it.  R. 
Jehudah,  however,  said:  It  would  be  the  same  as  if  broken,  but 
the  expression  "  invalid  "  means  that  it  became  invalid  in  this 
country,  but  has  still  a  value  in  another  one.  Said  R.  Hisda  to 
R.  Huna:  According  to  your  theory,  it  was  abolished  by  the 
government.  Is  that  not  equivalent  to  those  who  stole  fruits 
which  became  rotten  or  wine  which  became  sour,  for  which  the 
value  at  the  time  it  was  stolen  is  to  be  paid  ?  And  he  answered: 
There  is  a  change  in  taste  and  smell,  which  is  not  the  case  here. 
Said  Rabba  to  R.  Jehudah :  According  to  your  theory  abolished 
by  the  government  is  the  same  as  broken.  Is  that  not  equiva- 
lent to  the  case  of  heave-offering,  of  which  it  is  stated  that  he 
may  say:  "  Yours  is  before  you  "  ?  And  he  answered:  Nay,  it 
cannot  be  equivalent;  for  in  the  case  of  the  heave-offering,  it 
remains  the  same  as  it  was  before,  and  no  one  can  recognize 
any  change  in  it;  but  here  every  one  can  recognize  that  the 
coin  is  of  no  value.  It  was  taught:  If  one  has  given  credit,  to 
be  repaid  with  coin  which  had  the  full  value  at  that  time,  and 
afterwards  this  coin  was  abolished  ?  Rabh  said:  He  must  pay 
him  with  coin  of  the  time  of  payment.  Samuel,  however,  said : 
The  debtor  can  say,  "  I  give  you  the  coin  according  to  our 
agreement,  and  you  must  take  the  trouble  to  use  it  in  the  city 
of  Mishon,  where  it  has  a  value.  Said  R.  Na'hman:  It  seems 
that  Samuel's  theory  can  be  applied  in  the  case  of  a  creditor, 
who  intends  to  go  to  that  place,  but  not  otherwise.  Rabha 
objected  to  R.  Na'hman,  from  the  following  Boraitha:  The 
second  tithe  cannot  be  changed  with  coins  which  are  not  circu- 
lating in  the  market,  as  the  coins  of  Cachba,  or  of  the  govern- 
'nent  of  Jerusalem,  or  of  the  kings  of  the  ancient  times.     As 

tj«  .  -,         ..    .-  ■ 


222  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  expression,  "  kings  of  the  ancient  times,"  does  not  imply 
the  coins  of  the  later  kings,  which  have  not  any  value  here,  but 
still  have  a  value  in  other  countries,  they  may  be  changed 
(although  the  changer  has  not  any  intention  to  go  there,  as  he 
has  to  take  this  money  for  use  in  Jerusalem)  ?  And  he  rejoined: 
The  case  was  when  the  governments  were  not  particular  when 
foreign  coins  were  used.  According  to  you  (said  Rabha  again), 
Samuel  means  to  say  that  even  when  the  governments  are  par- 
ticular; but  if  they  are,  how  can  he  bring  the  coins  there  ?  It 
can  be  explained  that  they  can  be  smuggled  in,  as  the  govern- 
ment does  not  search  for  them,  but  if  found  they  confiscate 
them. 

The  rabbis  taught:  What  were  the  coins  of  Jerusalem  ? 
David  and  Solomon  were  engraved  on  one  side,  and  Jerusalem 
the  holy  city  on  the  other  side ;  and  what  were  the  coins  of 
Abraham  the  patriarch  ?  An  old  man  and  woman  on  one  side 
and  a  young  man  and  woman  on  the  other  side.  Rabha  ques- 
tioned R.  Hisda:  If  one  has  given  credit,  to  be  paid  with  a  cer- 
tain coin,  and  in  the  mean  time  the  coins  increased  in  weight, 
what  is  the  law  ?  And  he  answered :  He  must  give  him  coins 
which  are  used  at  the  time  of  payment.  And  he  questioned 
again:  Even  if  there  is  a  large  increase  in  size  and  weight  ?* 
And  he  said :  Yea.  But  on  account  of  the  larger  coins,  the 
fruits  become  cheaper  (as  we  get  more  produce  for  a  larger  coin 
than  a  smaller  one,  and  so  it  would  look  like  usury).  Said  R. 
Ashi:  It  must  be  discovered  whether  the  fruits  become  cheaper 
on  account  of  increase  of  the  coins  in  question,  then  the  pay- 
ment is  to  be  reduced  accordingly.  But  if  the  fruits  become 
cheap  on  account  of  great  production,  then  no  reduction  is  to 
be  made.  But  (even  in  the  latter  case),  at  any  rate,  is  there 
not  then  an  increase  in  the  metal  of  the  coin  which  looks  Iik» 
usury  ?  Therefore  the  question  must  be  decided  in  accordance 
with  the  following  act  of  Papa  and  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R. 
Joshua,  who  have  in  such  a  case  examined  the  different  coins  '-^A 
the  merchant  Argdimus,  and  have  found  that  eight  of  the  new 

*  The  text  reads  "  Khi  Naphia"  and  "  Khi  Tratia."  The  dictionaries  translate 
the  former  expression  as  "  a  sieve"  and  the  second  as  "  a  third  of  the  weight  or 
size."  It  seems  to  us,  however,  that  the  translation  of  the  former  is  not  correct,  as 
the  spelling  of  Nopha  (a  sieve)  is  always  with  an  h  and  not  with  an  i  ;  and  aside 
from  this,  the  text  shows  that  "  tratia"  was  still  larger  than  Naphia,  and  according 
to  the  dictionaries  the  first  would  be  larger  than  the  second.  We  have  therefore 
given  the  real  meaning,  omitting  the  Chaldean  expressions,  which  are  not  known 
to  us. 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  223 

ones  are  equal  to  ten  of  the  old  ones  (and  then  they  decided 
that  the  borrower  must  pay  accordingly).  Rabha  said:  If  it 
happened  that  one  had  pushed  another's  hand,  and  a  coin  fell 
down  from  his  hand  into  the  sea,  he  is  free,  as  he  may  say: 
I  did  it  unintentionally,  and  the  coin  is  before  you ;  you  may 
take  it.  This  is  the  case  only  when  the  water  is  so  clear  that 
the  coin  is  to  be  seen,  but  not  otherwise.*  Rabha  objected 
from  the  following  Mishna:  The  second  tithe  cannot  be  charged 
upon  money  which  is  not  under  one's  control  at  the  time, 
e.g.,  when  he  placed  his  money  in  custody  or  in  the  king's 
treasury  (which  he  cannot  reach  without  great  difficulty),  or 
when  the  purse  with  money  fell  into  the  sea,  so  that  the  tithe 
cannot  be  charged  on  such  money.  (Hence  we  see  that  such 
money  is  not  considered  under  his  control.)  And  Rabha  an- 
swered: This  case  is  different,  as  the  verse  plainly  states  "  and 
bind  up  the  money  in  thy  hand."  And  Rabha  said  again:  If 
one  has  defaced  coins  belonging  to  others,  he  is  free,  because 
he  did  not  take  away  anything,  and  it  is  considered  as  if  he  had 
done  nothing.  This  is  only  by  striking  with  a  mortar  upon  the 
effigy  (so  that  it  disappears),  but  not  when  he  has  filed  it,  as  then 
the  weight  of  it  is  lessened.  And  Rabha  said  again  :  If  one  cuts 
off  the  ear  of  his  neighbor's  cow,  which  by  such  an  act  becomes 
unfit  for  the  altar,  he  is  free,  because  the  cow  is  afterwards  as 
good  as  before  and  he  has  done  nothing,  as  not  all  cattle  are 
prepared  for  the  altar.  Rabha  objected  from  the  following 
Boraitha:  "  If  one  has  labored  with  the  red  cow  or  with  its 
ashes,  he  is  free  from  the  lower  court,  but  he  is  nevertheless 
responsible  in  the  divine  court."  We  see  then  that  labor  which 
cannot  be  recognized  on  the  body  of  the  animal  as  damaging, 
the  civil  court  cannot  make  him  liable  for;  but  by  taking  off  the 
ear,  which  is  recognized  on  the  body,  he  should  be  responsible 
even  before  the  civil  court  ?  Nay,  the  case  is  the  same,  and  the 
above  Boraitha  comes  to  teach  us  that  even  in  a  case  where  the 
change  is  not  to  be  recognized  on  the  body,  he  is  nevertheless 
responsible  before  the  divine  court.  The  same  said  again:  1/ 
one  has  burnt  a  note  of  his  neighbor,  he  is  free,  because  he  can 
say,  "  I  have  only  burned  a  piece  of  paper."  Rami  bar  Hama 
opposed :  Let  us  see.     If  there  are  witnesses  who  know  what 


*  All  this  applies  when  the  coin  was  dropped  from  the  owner's  hand  by  on^ 
unintentionally  pushing  the  same  ;  but  if  he  took  it  out  of  his  own  hand  and 
dropped  it,  it  is  a  robbery,  and  must  be  returned.  ^ 


224  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

was  written  in  the  note,  let  them  draw  another  good  note  for 
him  (and  there  would  be  no  damage  at  all) ;  and  if  there  are  no 
witnesses,  how  can  we  know  the  amount  of  the  note  ?  Said 
Rabha:  The  rabbis'  decision  may  hold  even  when  the  burner 
trusts  the  owner  of  the  note  as  to  its  amount.  R.  Dimi  bar 
Hanina  said :  The  above  statement  of  Rabha  is  discussed  by  R. 
Simeon  and  the  rabbis,  namely:  According  to  R.  Simeon,  who 
holds  that  a  germon  is  considered  a  direct  pecuniary  loss,  then 
in  the  case  of  Rabha  there  is  a  liability ;  but  to  the  rabbis,  who 
hold  that  a  germon  is  not  considered  such,  then  in  the  case  of 
Rabha  there  is  no  liability.  R.  Huna,  the  son  of  R.  Joshua, 
however,  opposed :  You  have  heard  R.  Simeon  so  declaring  only 
in  a  case  where  the  origin  was  money,  e.g.,  in  the  following  case 
stated  by  Rabha:  If  one  has  stolen  leavened  bread  before  pass- 
over,  and  another  has  burned  it  in  the  middle  days  of  the  feast,  he 
is  free,  because  there  is  an  obligation  on  every  Israelite  to  destroy 
it.  If  the  case  occurs  after  passover,  there  is  a  difference  of 
opinion;  according  to  R.  Simeon,  by  whom  it  is  held  a  germon 
for  a  direct  pecuniary  damage,  there  is  liability,  and  according 
to  his  opponents  there  is  not ;  but  in  a  case  where  the  origin  is 
not  money,  did  you  hear  them  differ  ?  Said  Amemar:  In  the 
courts  where  they  summon  for  causing  damage  by  germon,  the 
full  value  of  the  note  is  to  be  collected  from  the  destroyer.  In 
the  courts,  however,  where  they  do  not^  in  such  cases  there  is 
to  be  collected  only  the  value  of  the  piece  of  paper.  Such  a 
case  happened,  and  Raphram  compelled  R.  Ashi  to  pay  from 
his  best  estates. 

' '  Leavened  bread, ' '  etc. ,  "  /le  can  say,  '  Yours  is  before  you. 
Who  is  the  Tana  who  holds  that  in  prohibited  things,  from 
which  no  benefit  is  to  be  derived,  one  may  nevertheless  say: 
"Yours  is  before  you."  Said  R.  Hisda:  It  is  R.  Jacob  of 
the  Boraitha  stated  above  (p.  103).  R.  Jacob  said :  Even  when 
it  is  already  decided  that  the  ox  shall  be  killed,  and  the  bailee 
has  returned  it  to  its  owner,  the  act  is  valid,  and  we  must 
assume  the  point  of  their  difference  is  this:  R.  Jacob  holds  that 
of  things  from  which  no  benefit  is  to  be  derived  he  may  never- 
theless say:  "Yours  is  before  you,"  and  the  rabbis  hold  that 
such  is  not  the  case  ?  Said  Rabha  to  him :  Nay,  all  agree,  in 
the  case  stated  above,  that  one  may  say,  "  Yours  is  before 
you."  For  if  such  is  not  the  case,  let  them  differ  also  in  case 
of  leaven  on  passover  (stated  above).  The  point  of  their  differ- 
ence here,  however,  is  this:  Whether  the  court  may  decide  the 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  225 

case  of  the  goring  ox  in  its  absence.  The  rabbis  hold  that  the 
decision  must  be  in  the  presence  of  the  ox,  and  therefore 
the  owner  can  claim  that  if  it  should  be  returned  to  him  before 
the  decision  of  the  court,  he  could  drive  it  away  to  a  meadow, 
but  after  the  decision  he  could  do  nothing;  so  that  no  decision 
could  be  rendered;  and  R.  Jacob  holds  that  the  presence  of 
the  ox  is  not  necessary,  and  the  bailee  can  say  to  the  owner: 
"  What  is  the  difference,  when  the  ox  would  be  returned  to 
you ;  the  court  would  decide  the  case  in  any  event,  and  as  the 
ox  is  yours,  I  have  nothing  to  do  with  it." 

Fruits,  and  they  became  rotten, ' '  etc.  But  we  have  learned  in 
a  Mishna  that  in  such  a  case  one  must  pay  their  value  at  the 
time  they  were  stolen  ?  Said  R.  Papa:  The  Mishna  just  quoted 
speaks  of  a  case  when  all  the  fruit  had  become  rotten,  and  our 
Mishna  speaks  when  only  a  part  of  them  had  become  so. 

MISHNA  ///. :  If  a  specialist  took  a  thing  to  repair  it  and 
he  spoiled  it,  he  must  pay.  The  same  is  the  case  if  a  carpenter 
took  a  box,  a  trunk,  or  a  cage  to  repair  and  he  has  spoiled  it — 
he  must  pay.  A  builder  who  undertook  to  take  apart  a  wall, 
and  he  broke  the  stones  or  bricks,  or  spoiled  them,  he  must 
pay.  If,  however,  by  taking  it  apart  from  one  side,  it  fell  down 
from  another  side,  he  is  free ;  provided,  however,  it  did  not  fall 
down  by  reason  of  the  stroke. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Asi :  The  Mishna  speaks  only  when 
the  things  were  given  solely  for  repairing,  e.g.,  to  put  rails  on 
it ;  but  if  wood  were  given  to  one  to  make  the  above  articles 
new  ones  and  he  broke  them,  he  has  to  pay  only  for  the  wood, 
and  not  for  the  vessels,  because  the  carpenter  acquires  title  in 
the  increase  of  the  wood  by  having  made  a  vessel  of  it.  There 
is  an  objection  from  our  Mishna:  If  a  specialist  took  something 
to  repair  it,  he  is  liable.  Shall  we  not  assume  that  he  took 
wood  ?  Nay,  it  means  when  he  took  vessels.  But  does  not  the 
second  part  speak  of  vessels,  of  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that 
the  first  part  speaks  of  wood  ?  Nay,  the  Mishna  itself  explains 
in  the  latter  part  the  meaning  of  the  first  part,  and  it  is  to  be 
read  thus :  If  he  has  spoiled.  How  so  ?  If  he  has  given  it  to 
specialists  for  repairing,  and  they  have  spoiled  it,  they  are 
responsible;  e.g.,  if  he  gives  to  a  carpenter  a  trunk,  etc.  And 
it  seems  also  that  the  latter  part  is  only  an  explanation.  Then 
(if  such  is  not  the  case)  the  latter  case  would  be  entirely  super- 
fluous, as  it  is  stated  already  in  the  first  part  that,  even  if  he 
took  wood  he  must  pay;  it  is  self-evident,  when  he  took  ves- 


126  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

sels  and  spoiled  them  ?  (Says  the  Gemara:)  This  conclusion  is 
not  strong  enough,  as  it  can  be  said  that  the  statement  of  the 
second  part  was  necessary  to  declare  the  meaning  of  the  first 
part,  lest  one  say  that  the  first  part  treats  of  vessels,  but  with 
wood  the  case  would  be  different,  it  expresses  in  the  second 
part  the  different  vessels,  to  infer  from  it  that  the  first  part 
treats  of  wood,  and,  nevertheless,  he  is  responsible.  There  is 
another  objection  from  the  following  Mishna:  Come  and  hear: 
If  a  specialist  took  a  garment  and  made  it  ready,  and  informed 
the  owner  he  should  take  it  and  the  owner  did  not  care  to  do 
so,  the  negative  commandment  of  Lev.  xix.  13,  "  There  shall  not 
abide,"  etc.,  does  not  apply  here.  If,  however,  he  has  deliv- 
ered it  to  him  in  the  middle  of  the  day,  and  it  is  not  paid  by 
sunset,  the  above  commandment  is  applied.  Now,  if  some 
would  bear  in  mind  that  the  master  acquires  title  on  the  in- 
crease, then  why  should  the  above  commandment  be  applied  ? 
Must  not  the  garment  be  considered  as  the  property  of  the 
master?  Said  R.  Mori  the  son  of  R.  Kahana:  This  Mishna 
speaks  of  an  old  garment  that  was  given  to  be  cleaned  and  to 
comb  the  wool,  where  there  is  no  increase.  But,  finally,  if 
given  to  him  to  put  in  order,  e.g.,  to  make  it  soft,  or  to  clean  it 
so  that  it  shall  look  like  a  new  one — is  this  not  to  be  considered 
an  increase  ?  The  case  was  that  he  hired  him  on  time,  then  he 
must  pay  him  for  his  time  and  not  for  the  garment,  and,  there- 
fore, if  he  had  not  paid  him,  the  above  passage  applies.  Sam- 
uel said:  A  butcher  (even),  a  specialist,  if  he  has  spoiled  the 
meat  (by  slaughtering  the  cattle  not  in  accordance  with  the  law) 
he  must  pay,  he  is  a  tort-feasor,  and  is  also  considered  wilful  in 
doing  this  damage,  as  he  has  slaughtered  it  not  in  the  place 
where  it  ought  to  have  been  done,  and  his  mission  of  slaughter- 
ing is  not  fulfilled.  Why  so  many  reasons  ?  If  it  stated  a  tort- 
feasor only,  one  may  say  that  the  case  is  only  when  he  was 
hired  to  slaughter,  but  if  he  has  done  it  gratuitously  he  should 
be  free ;  therefore  the  addition. 

His  act  is  considered  wilful."  R.  Hama  bar  Guria  objects 
from  the  following  Boraitha:  If  one  has  given  his  cattle  for 
slaughter  and  they  are  spoiled  so  that  they  become  (unfit  for 
eating),  if  the  butcher  was  a  specialist,  there  is  no  liability;  but 
if  he  was  a  layman,  there  is.  Both,  however,  if  they  were  hired, 
then  are  they  liable.  Samuel's  answer  was:  I  think  your  brain  is 
not  in  regular  order.  The  same  objection  was  raised  to  it  by 
another  of  the  rabbis,  and  Samuel  said  to  him :  (Stop  object- 


TRACT    BaBA    KAMA    (THE-   FIRST   GATE).  227 

ing,)  as  thou  wilt  receive  the  same  answer  as  thy  colleague.  I 
taught  this  in  accord  with  R.  Meir,  and  you  questioned  me  in 
accordance  with  his  opponents.  Why  did  not  you  give  a  care- 
ful consideration  to  my  statement  ?  Did  I  not  say  he  is  a  tort- 
feasor, and  considered  wilful,  etc.,  and  whose  theory  is  it  that 
such  a  consideration  should  apply  in  such  cases  ?  There  is  only 
R.  Meir.  [Where  did  R.  Meir  state  this  ?]  In  the  following 
Mishna:  If  one's  jug  was  broken  (in  the  public  street),  and  he 
did  not  remove  it,  or  his  camel  fell  down  and  he  did  not  raise  it 
(and  damage  was  caused),  R.  Meir  said :  He  must  pay.  The 
rabbis,  however,  say :  This  damage  cannot  be  collected  by  the 
civil  court;  the  divine  court,  however,  makes  him  responsible 
for  it.  And  it  is  declared  that  they  differ  in  the  case  of  stum- 
bling, whether  it  is  considered  wilfulness  or  not.  Rabba  bar 
Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said :  A  professional  slaugh- 
terer is  always  responsible  for  his  act,  and  even  if  he  were 
expert  as  they  of  Ziphrus.  Did  R.  Johanan,  indeed,  say  so  ?  Did 
not  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  himself  say  that  such  a  case  happened 
for  R.  Johanan  in  the  congregation  of  Moun,  and  R.  Johanan 
said  to  him:  "  Go  and  bring  witnesses  that  you  are  a  speciaHst 
in  slaughtering  cocks,  and  I  will  take  off  the  responsibility  from 
you  "  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  latter  was  a  gratui- 
tous act,  and  the  first  case  speaks  of  hire.  As  R.  Sera  used  to 
say:  One  who  likes  to  be  sure  of  the  responsibility  of  his  slau'gh- 
terer,  he  shall  advance  him  a  dinar.  It  happened  that  a  case  of 
egressum  (in  slaughtering)  came  before  Rabh,  and  he  declared  it 
unlawful  for  use,  and  at  the  same  time  he  absolved  the  slaugh- 
terer from  payment.  When  R.  Kahana  and  R.  Asi  met  the 
owner  of  the  cattle,  they  said  to  him :  Rabh  did  two  good 
things  regarding  you.  He  prevented  you  from  using  a  doubt- 
ful thing,  and  also  restrained  you  from  possible  robbery  (as,  if 
he  had  made  the  butcher  pay,  it  would  have  been  a  robbery). 
It  was  taught :  Suppose  one  gave  a  coin  to  a  banker  for  exam- 
ination, which  was  approved  by  him,  and  afterwards  it  was 
found  to  be  of  no  value  ?  If  he  was  a  specialist,  he  is  free;  but 
if  a  layman,  he  is  responsible.  So  is  the  statement  of  one 
Boraitha.  Another  one,  however,  states  that  in  any  case  the 
banker  is  responsible.  Said  R.  Papa:  The  statement  that  he  is 
free  speaks  of  experts  like  Danki  and  Esau,  who  do  not  need 
any  more  experience,  but  they  erred  in  the  picture  of  the  coin, 
which  was  a  new  one  in  this  country,  and  they  took  it  for  an 
old  one  of  another  country,  and  they  did  not  know  that  in  this 


228  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

country  such  a  coin  was  just  made.  There  was  a  woman  who 
showed  a  coin  to  R.  Hyya,  and  he  told  her:  It  is  a  good  one. 
The  next  day  she  came  and  told  him  that  when  she  showed  it 
to  other  people  she  was  told  it  was  of  no  value,  and  she  could 
not  give  it  out.  Then  R.  Hyya  said  to  Rabh :  Give  her  a  good 
dinar,  and  write  in  my  account  book  that  this  was  a  bad  busi- 
ness (to  lose  money  for  nothing,  as  I  should  not  have  given 
a  decision  upon  it).  But  why — was  not  R.  Hyya  an  expert  in 
such  cases,  as  Danki  and  Esau  mentioned  above,  of  whom  it 
was  said  they  had  not  to  pay  for  their  error  ?  R.  Hyya  did  not 
go  to  the  extreme  of  the  law,  but  acted  on  the  teaching  that 
a  generous  man  should  always  moderate  the  law  when  it  is 
against  poor  people  (as  will  be  explained  in  the  Second  Gate 
(Chap.  II.)  by  R.  Joseph).  Resh  Lakish  showed  a  dinar  to  R. 
Elazar,  and  he  told  him:  It  is  a  good  one.  He  said  then:  I 
rely  upon  you.  And  the  former  rejoined :  What  do  you  mean 
by  relying  upon  me — that  if  it  will  be  found  of  no  value  I  should 
change  it  ?  Are  not  you  he  who  said  that  the  decision  of  this 
Halakha  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Meir,  who  decided  that  laws 
of  germon  (damages  which  are  done  indirectly)  shall  be  put 
in  practice?  Consequently  the  Halakha  does  not  so  prevail. 
"Nay,"  rejoined  Resh  Lakish,  "  I  meant  that  it  is  according  to 
him  and  so  the  Halakha  prevails."  [And  where  did  R.  Meir 
stated  it?  In  the  following  Boraitha.  The  name  of  R.  Meir  is 
not  mentioned  here,  and  Tosphatt  declares  that  it  was  known  to 
the  Gemarathat  this  is  his  decision.]  "  If  the  partition  which 
was  placed  between  the  vineyard  and  corn  was  broken,  the 
court  has  to  order  him  twice  to  repair  it.  If  he,  however,  did 
not  care  to  fulfil  the  order,  then  the  products  are  prohibited, 
and  the  owner  of  the  partition  has  to  suffer  the  damage." 

MISHNA  IV. :  If  one  gave  wool  to  the  dyer,  and  it  was 
spoiled  in  the  kettle,  the  value  of  the  wool  is  to  be  paid.  If  it 
was  poorly  dyed,  by  reason  of  the  kettle  not  being  clean,  if  the 
increase  in  value  of  the  wool  is  more  than  the  expense,  then  he 
pays  the  expense  only;  and  conversely,  the  increase  only.  If 
one  has  given  wool  to  be  dyed  red,  and  it  is  dyed  black,  or  con- 
versely, R.  Meir  says :  The  value  of  the  wool  is  to  be  paid.  R. 
Jehudah  says:  It  must  be  seen  which  was  greater,  the  increase 
or  the  expense. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  has  given  wood  to 
the  carpenter  to  make  a  chair  of  it,  and  he  has  made  a  bench, 
or  conversely,  the  value  of  the  wood  is  to  be  paid.     So  is  the 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  229 

decree  of  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah  says:  "  If  the  increase  is  more 
than  the  expense,"  etc.  (as  stated  in  the  Mishna).  R.  Meir, 
however,  agrees  that  such  a  decision  applies  if  the  agreement 
was  to  make  a  nice  one  and  he  made  it  unsightly.  The  school- 
men propounded  a  question :  Is  the  color  of  the  dyes  to  be  con- 
sidered as  existing  upon  the  wool,  or  not  ?  How  is  it  to  be 
understood  if  one  has  stolen  the  wool  and  the  dyes  of  the  same 
man,  and  has  dyed  the  wool  with  the  same,  and  then  returns 
the  wool  ?  Now,  if  it  is  considered  as  existing,  then  he  has 
returned  all  he  has  stolen  from  him ;  and  if  not,  he  has  returned 
him  only  the  wool  ?  But  even  suppose  not,  is  not  the  price  of 
the  wool  increased  by  that  ?  Nay!  The  case  was  that  the 
dyed  wool  became  cheaper  after  it  was  stolen.  Rabbina  said : 
The  question  is  in  case  the  wool  belongs  to  one  and  the  dyes  to 
another,  and  a  monkey  came  and  dyed  this  wool  with  these 
dyes.  Shall  we  then  assume  that  the  dyes  are  considered  as 
existing  upon  the  wool,  and  the  owner  of  the  dyes  can  say: 
"  Pay  me  for  my  dyes  which  are  upon  your  wool"  ?  Or,  per- 
haps can  the  other  say:  "  There  is  nothing  that  belongs  to  you, 
as  the  color  of  your  dyes  is  not  taken  into  consideration." 
Come  and  hear:  A  garment  which  is  dyed  with  the  rinds  of 
fruits  grown  in  the  sabbatic  year  must  be  burned.  Hence  it  is 
to  be  inferred  that  the  color  of  dyes  is  considered  as  existing  ? 
There  is  a  difference,  as  the  Scripture  uses  the  expression, 
"  It  shall  be,"  which  means:  It  shall  always  be  considered  as 
existing. 

"  R,  Jehudah  says,"  etc.  R.  Joseph  was  sitting  behind  R. 
Abba,  before  R.  Huna,  and  R.  Huna  said:  The  Halakha  pre- 
vails in  accord  with  R.  Joshua  ben  Karcha  and  also  with  R. 
Jehudah.  R.  Joseph  then  turned  his  face,  and  said:  It  is  neces- 
sary to  say  that  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accord  with  R.  Joshua 
ben  Karcha,  lest  one  say  that,  as  there  is  a  rule  where  an  indi- 
vidual and  the  majority  differ,  the  Halakha  prevails  as  the 
majority;  therefore  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  here  the  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  the  individual.  [What  is  the  case  of  R. 
Joshua  ben  Karcha  ?  The  case  of  the  following  Boraitha,  where 
it  is  said  that  before  the  pagans'  holidays  there  should  be  col- 
lected from  them  only  such  debts  as  are  not  known  by  any  writ- 
ing; but  if  there  is  a  note,  it  must  not  be  collected.]  But  for 
what  purpose  was  it  necessary  to  state:  The  Halakha  prevails 
according  to  R.  Jehudah  ?  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  Is  there 
not  an  anonymous  Mishna  after  the  Mishna  in  which  they  differ, 


230  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

and  there  is  a  rule  that  in  such  a  case  the  Halakha  prevails  in 
accordance  with  the  anonymous  Mishna — namely,  in  this  First 
Gate,  R.  Meir  and  R.  Jehudah  differ  in  our  Mishna  stated 
above,  and  in  the  Second  Gate  there  is  an  anonymous  Mishna 
that  he  who  has  changed  the  order  must  suffer  the  damages, 
which  is  certainly  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah's  theory  ? 
[Said  the  Gemara:]  R.  Huna  holds  that  his  statement  was  nec- 
essary, because  at  a  first  glance  one  may  say  that  the  order  of 
the  Mishnayoth  is  not  to  be  taken  into  consideration ;  and,  con- 
sequently, there  is  not  an  anonymous  Mishna  after  the  Mishna 
which  was  discussed.  If  so,  what,  then,  is  the  rule  ?  R.  Joseph 
may  say :  We  can  say  to  every  anonymous  Mishna  which  comes 
after  a  discussion  that  there  is  no  order  in  the  Mishnayoth. 
And  what  would  R.  Huna  say  to  this  ?  He  might  say  that  only 
in  one  tract  is  the  order  of  the  Mishna  not  to  be  taken  into  con- 
sideration, but  in  two  different  tracts  it  must  be  considered. 
And  R.  Joseph  ?  He  maintains  that  the  whole  of  Section  Dam- 
ages is  considered  as  one  tract.  And  if  you  prefer,  it  may  be 
said  that,  even  to  him  who  does  not  consider  the  whole  section 
as  one  tract,  the  anonymous  Mishna  in  the  Second  Gate,  which 
is  placed  among  decided  Halakhas  without  any  change,  prevails. 
The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  has  given  money  to  his  messenger 
to  buy  wheat  and  he  buys  barley,  or  vice  versa,  there  was  taught 
in  one  Boraitha  that  the  decrease  as  well  as  increase  is  accounted 
to  the  messenger;  and  in  another  one,  the  decrease  only,  but 
the  increase  must  be  divided.  Said  R.  Johanan :  The  different 
opinions  of  the  Boraithas  present  no  difificulty:  one  is  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Meir,  who  holds  that  change  gives  title,  and  the 
other  one  is  in  accord  with  R.  Jehudah,  who  holds  it  does  not. 
R.  Elazar  opposed :  How  can  we  infer  that  according  to  R.  Meir 
even  the  increase  belongs  to  the  messenger?  Perhaps  R.  Meir 
spoke  only  of  an  article  that  one  needs  for  his  own  use,  but  not 
for  the  market  (as  there  is  a  difference  which  article  he  buys  as 
soon  as  there  is  profit  on  it).  And,  therefore,  said  R.  Elazar, 
both  Boraithas  are  in  accord  with  R.  Meir,  and  present,  never- 
theless, no  difificulty.  The  first  means  when  it  was  bought  for 
eating,  and  the  other  for  the  market.  In  the  West  they  ridi- 
culed Johanan's  explanation  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  for  who 
had  informed  the  man  of  the  wheat  that  he  shall  pass  title  to 
the  man  of  the  money  (and  why  should  the  sender  get  a  share 
of  the  increase)  ?  R.  Samuel  bar  Sasarti  thus  opposed  this:  If 
it  is  so,  then  even  when  the  messenger  has  bought  the  same 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  231 

article  he  was  ordered  to  buy,  then  the  profit  should  not  belong 
to  the  sender  ?  Said  R.  Abuhi :  Then  there  is  a  difference, 
because  the  messenger  fulfilled  what  he  was  ordered,  and  he  is 
considered  as  the  owner  himself. 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  who  buys  a  field  in  the  name  of  his 
neighbor,  he  for  whom  it  was  bought,  is  not  to  be  compelled  to 
sell  it;  but  if  he  bought  it  under  this  condition,  then  he  may  be 
compelled.  How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  Said  R.  Shesheth: 
It  means  to  say  the  following:  If,  e.g.,  one  has  bought  a  field 
in  the  name  of  the  Exilarch,  the  Exilarch  cannot  be  compelled 
to  sell  it  again ;  but  if  he  bought  it  under  this  condition  that 
the  Exilarch  shall  transfer  it,  he  may  be.  Now  we  see  that  he 
acquires  title  in  any  case.  Shall  we  assume  that  this  Boraitha 
differs  with  those  of  the  West,  which  said  above,  that  title  with- 
out information  cannot  be  acquired  ?  This  question  could  be 
answered  that  the  buyer  has  informed  the  seller,  and  the  wit- 
nesses also,  that  he  buys  it  for  himself;  but  the  latter  part, 
which  stated  that  the  Exilarch  may  be  compelled  to  sell  it 
again,  presents  a  dif^culty.  Why  should  not  the  Exilarch  say: 
I  do  not  want  to  be  honored  (by  you  in  buying  things  in  my 
name),  and  to  be  despised  afterwards  (in  making  me  a  seller  of 
property).  Therefore,  said  Abayi,  it  means  thus:  If  one  buys 
a  field  in  the  name  of  his  neighbor,  the  seller  is  not  compelled 
to  write  him  another  bill  of  sale  upon  his  own  name  unless  he 
bought  it  under  this  condition ;  but  is  it,  then,  necessary  for 
the  Boraitha  to  state  that  the  seller  has  not  to  give  two  bills  of 
sale  in  two  different  names — is  it  not  self-evident  ?  Lest  one 
say,  the  buyer  could  claim  that  the  seller  was  well  informed  that 
the  bill  of  sale  in  the  other's  name  was  only  a  Ttivauoz  ("  for 
fear  that  my  creditors  shall  not  claim  this  estate) ;  and  certainly, 
as  I  would  not  give  money  for  nothing,  it  was  with  the  inten- 
tion I  should  get  another  bill  of  sale  in  my  name."  He  comes, 
therefore,  to  teach  us  that  the  seller  can  say  to  the  buyer:  "  Go 
and  get  your  bill  of  sale  from  him  in  whose  name  you  have 
bought."  But  where  is  the  need  of  the  latter  part,  "if  he 
bought  it  under  this  condition,"  etc.?  Is  this  not  self-evident  ? 
The  case  was  when  the  buyer  said  to  the  witnesses  in  the  pres- 
ence of  the  seller:  "  Observe  that  I  want  to  get  another  bill  of 
sale."  Lest  one  say,  the  seller  could  claim:  "  I  meant  another 
bill  of  sale  from  him  in  whose  name  it  was  bought " ;  he  comes, 
therefore,  to  teach  us  that  the  buyer  may  claim  that,  only  for 
the  purpose  of  getting  another  bill  of  sale  from  the  seller,  he 


232  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

informed  him  in  the  presence  of  witnesses;  as  if  not,  there 
would  not  be  any  necessity  for  the  seller  to  know  this.  R. 
Kahana  paid  money  for  flax.  In  the  meantime  the  fHax  became 
dearer  and  the  seller  sold  it  (for  R.  Kahana's  benefit).  Then  R. 
Kahana  questioned  Rabh  if  he  had  a  right  to  take  the  money. 
And  he  answered:  If  in  selling  the  flax  it  was  said  that  it  is 
Kahana's  flax,  go  and  take  it ;  but  not  otherwise.  Now,  Rabh's 
decision  is  in  accordance  with  the  theory  of  the  rabbis  of  the 
West,  stated  above.  But  did,  then,  R.  Kahana  give  four  (with 
the  intention  to  get)  eight  ?  The  flax  was  his,  and  it  became 
dearer  by  itself,  so  that  the  seller  who  had  sold  it  without  the 
knowledge  of  R.  Kahana  is  to  be  considered  as  a  robber,  of 
whom  it  is  stated  in  the  Mishna:  He  must  pay  the  value  when 
it  was  stolen,  and  the  flax  was  already  dearer.  The  case  was 
that  R.  Kahana  had  not  given  to  the  man  flax  at  all,  but  money 
to  buy  it  at  the  lowest  price,  and  he  had  confidence  in  him ;  and 
when  the  seller  did  not  mention  that  he  sold  the  flax  of  R. 
Kahana,  the  increased  price  of  the  flax,  which  was  not  as  yet 
the  property  of  Kahana,  if  he  had  taken  it,  was  to  be  considered 
as  usury.  Rabh,  however,  in  his  decision  is  in  accord  with  his 
theory  that  a  trust  may  be  made  for  fruit,  to  pay  for  it  now  and 
to  get  it  when  it  will  be  dearer.  He  must,  however,  take  the 
fruit  itself,  but  not  the  money  for  it  (as  it  would  be  like  usury). 
MISHNA  V. :  One  who  has  stolen  the  value  of  a  coin,  even 
the  smallest  in  the  country,  and  he  swears  falsely  that  he  did 
not  take  it,  and  afterwards  confesses,  he  shall  return  it  to  the 
owner  where  he  is  to  be  found,  even  when  he  is  in  Madai.  He 
cannot  return  it  to  his  son  or  a  messenger.  He  may,  however, 
return  it  to  the  messenger  of  the  court.  In  case  the  one  robbed 
is  dead,  he  may  return  it  to  his  heirs.  If  he  has  returned  the 
principal  amount,  but  not  the  fifth  part  (that  he  must  add)  [see 
Lev.  v.],  or  if  the  one  robbed  had  renounced  the  principal 
amount  but  not  the  fifth  part,  or  he  had  renounced  both  except 
the  value  of  less  than  a/>aruika  of  the  principal  amount,  he  is 
no  more  obliged  to  go  to  him  (for  the  sake  of  returning  the  part 
he  still  owes  him).  If,  however,  the  fifth  part  only  is  paid  or 
renounced,  or  even  when  both  are  renounced  less  than  di parutha 
of  the  principal  amount  itself,  he  must  go  to  him  to  return  it. 
If  he  has  paid  the  principal  amount,  and  he  took  an  oath  that 
he  had  returned  him  the  fifth  part  also,  and  then  he  confesses, 
he  must  then  add  a  fifth  part  to  the  fifth,  etc.,  till  the  part 
sworn  ofT  will  be  less  than  a  parutJia.     The  same  is  the  case  in 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  233 

a  deposit,  as  it  is  said  [Lev.  v.  21-24]  :  "  H  any  person  sin  and 
commits  a  trespass  against  the  Lord ;  if  he,  namely,  lie  unto  his 
neighbor  in  that  which  was  delivered  to  him  to  keep,  or  in  a 
loan,  or  in  a  thing  taken  away  by  violence,  or  if  he  has  withheld 
the  wages  of  his  neighbor,  or  if  he  has  found  something  which 
was  lost  and  lies  concerning  it  and  swears  falsely  in  any  one  of 
all  these  which  a  man  can  do  to  sin  thereby.  Then  shall  it  be 
when  he  has  sinned  and  is  conscious  of  his  guilt,  that  he  shall 
restore  what  has  been  violently  taken  away,  or  the  wages  which 
he  has  withheld,  or  that  which  was  delivered  to  him  to  keep,  or 
the  lost  thing  which  he  has  found,  or  any  one  thing  about 
which  he  may  have  sworn  falsely,  and  he  shall  restore  it,  in  its 
principal,  and  the  fifth  part  thereof  shall  be  added  thereto :  unto 
him  to  whom  it  appertains  shall  he  give  it  on  the  day  when  he 
confesses  his  trespass." 

GEMARA:  (If  he  has  sworn)  but  how  is  it  when  he  has 
not  sworn — he  must  not  pay  ?  then  the  Mishna  is  not  in  accord 
with  R.  Tarphon  nor  with  R.  Aqiba  of  the  following  Mishna: 
"  If  one  has  robbed  one  of  five  persons,  and  he  does  not  know 
which  of  them,  and  each  of  them  says  he  was  robbed,  he  shall 
place  the  robbed  amount  among  them  and  he  is  free,  so  is  the 
decree  of  R.  Tarphon."  R.  Aqiba,  however,  says:  "Such  is 
not  the  way  to  prevent  one  from  sinning,  and  he  is  not  free 
unless  he  pays  the  amount  to  each  of  them."  Now,  according 
to  R.  Tarphon,  even  when  he  swears,  he  may  nevertheless  get 
free  by  placing  the  robbed  amount  among  them ;  and  according 
to  R.  Aqiba,  even  when  there  was  no  oath  he  must  pay  to  each 
of  them  ?  Our  Mishna  can  be  explained  in  accord  with  R. 
Aqiba  and  his  statement,  he  shall  pay  to  each  of  them  is  only 
in  case  he  has  sworn,  because  it  is  said  [Lev.  v.]i  ["  Unto 
him  to  whom  it  appertains  shall  he  give  it  on  the  day  when  he 
confesses  his  trespass."]  R.  Tarphon,  however,  maintains: 
"  The  rabbis  have  made  an  enactment  even  in  case  there  was  an 
oath,  as  stated  in  the  following  Boraitha :  R.  Elazar  b.  Zadok 
says :  There  was  a  great  enactment  by  the  rabbis  that  in  case 
the  travelling  expenses  for  returning  it  should  exceed  the 
robbed  amount,  he  may  pay  the  principal  amount  and  a  fifth  part 
of  it  to  the  court,  and  he  may  bring  the  trespass  offering  and  an 
atonement  will  be  made  for  him.  Concerning  this  statement 
R.  Aqiba  may  say  that  such  enactment  applies  only  when  he 
^inows  whom  he  has  robbed ;  but  in  our  case,  where  he  does  not 
know  who  of  the  five  was  robbed  by  him  (so  that  he  cannot 


234  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

return  the  robbed  article  to  the  right  owner),  the  above  enact- 
ment  does  not  apply."  Rabha  objected. from  the  following:  "  It 
happened  with  one  pious  man  who  bought  of  one  of  two  per- 
sons, and  he  did  not  know  from  which  of  them,  when  he  then 
came  before  R.  Tarphon,  he  told  him  to  place  among  them  the 
value  of  the  goods  bought  and  he  will  then  be  free.  When  he 
came  to  R.  Aqiba  he  told  him:  '  You  cannot  make  good  this 
act  unless  you  will  pay  to  each  of  them  the  full  amount.'  "  Now 
if  you  bear  in  mind  that  R.  Aqiba's  statement  is  only  when  he 
has  sworn  falsely — would  then  a  pious  man  swear  falsely  ?  And 
if  one  may  say,  that  this  person  has  become  pious  after  he  has 
sworn  falsely — is  there  not  a  rule  that  everywhere  the  expres- 
sion, "  It  happened  with  a  pious  one,"  etc.,  is  used,  it  means 
always  R.  Jehudah  ben  Rabba  or  Jehudah  b.  Ilai,  and  both 
were  always  pious  ?  Therefore  said  Rabha :  The  case  in  our 
Mishna  is  entirely  different,  it  was  known  to  him  whom  he  has 
robbed,  and  he  has  confessed  to  him,  and  because  at  the  time  of 
the  confession  the  robbed  one  did  not  demand  he  shall  return 
him  the  robbed  articles  immediately,  it  is  considered  as  if  he 
would  say,  "  Keep  it  for  me,"  and  this  can  only  be  when  he  has 
not  sworn  and  did  not  need  any  atonement;  but  when  he  has 
sworn,  although  the  robbed  one  would  say  to  him  plainly, 
"  Keep  it  for  me,"  he  still  needs  an  atonement,  and  this  cannot 
take  place  until  the  robbed  articles  are  returned  in  the  hands  of 
the  robbed  one. 

"  He  cannot  give  it'*  etc.  It  was  taught,  a  messenger  who 
was  instructed  by  the  creditor  in  the  presence  of  witnesses.  R. 
Hisda  said:  "  He  is  considered  a  good  messenger,  so  that  if  an 
accident  happens  to  him  after  he  received  the  money,  it  is  to  be 
charged  on  account  of  the  creditor  and  not  of  the  debtor,  for 
the  reason  that  the  creditor  took  the  trouble  to  appoint  this 
messenger  in  the  presence  of  witnesses,  so  that  as  soon  as  the 
messenger  receives  the  money  the  debtor  shall  be  acquitted." 
Rabba,  however,  said:  "The  creditor  has  only  introduced 
the  messenger  as  a  man  who  is  worthy  to  be  trusted,  and  if  you 
wish,  you  can  send  witl  iiim,  but  I  am  not  responsible  until  the 
money  reaches  me."  An  objection  vas  raised  from  our  Mishna: 
"  He  shall  not  give  it  to  his  messenger."  What  kind  of  a  mes- 
senger is  meant?  If  he  was  not  instructed  before  witnesses,  how 
do  we  know  that  he  is  a  messenger  ?  Hence,  we  must  say  that 
he  was  nominated  in  the  presence  of  witnesses  (and  nevertheless 
tt  is  said  he  shall  not  give  it  to  him)  ?     R.  Hisda  explained  that 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  235 

the  Mishna  speaks  of  the  robbed  one's  employee.  But  how,  if 
the  same  would  be  appointed  to  receive  this  thing  in  the  pres- 
ence of  witnesses — may  then  the  robber  give  it  to  him  ?  Then 
why  does  not  the  Mishna  make  this  distinction,  instead  of  the 
statement  that  he  can  give  it  to  the  messenger  of  the  court  ? 
It  may  be  said  that  the  Mishna  prefers  to  speak  of  a  messenger 
who  is  to  be  respected  at  any  rate,  no  matter  through  whose 
influence  appointed,  whether  of  the  robbed  one  or  of  the  rob- 
ber, which  is  not  the  case  with  a  private  messenger.  And  with 
this  statement  the  Mishna  also  intends  to  contradict  R.  Simeon 
ben  Elazar  of  the  following  Boraitha,  who  said :  A  messenger 
of  the  court  when  nominated  by  the  robbed  one  without  the 
consent  of  the  robber,  or  when  even  by  the  robber,  and  the 
robbed  one  has  sent  another  messenger  and  took  the  robbed 
article,  and  before  it  was  returned  to  the  robbed  one  an  acci- 
dent happened,  the  robber  has  done  his  duty.  R.  Johanan  and 
R.  Elazar  both  said  that  a  messenger  appointed  in  the  presence 
of  witnesses  is  a  good  messenger,  and  regarding  the  above  stated 
objection  from  our  Mishna,  we  may  say:  Our  Mishna  speaks 
of  a  case  where  the  robbed  one  has  only  advised  a  man  to  tell 
the  robber  that  he  can  give  him  the  articles  robbed  to  deliver; 
for  he  thought  that  the  robber  had  nobody  to  send  him. 

R.  Jehudah,  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  said:  "  A  messenger 
must  not  be  made  in  his  absence,  namely:  If  the  creditor  writes 
to  the  debtor,  '  Send  me  the  money  through  so  and  so,  and  I 
take  the  responsibility  for  it ' — even  when  he  had  signed  this 
letter  with  his  signature  and  with  witnesses  it  is  of  no  value." 
R.  Johanan,  however,  said:  "If  it  was  signed  and  witnessed, 
the  order  may  be  executed." 

But  what  is  to  be  done  according  to  Samuel's  theory  ?  The 
creditor  shall  pass  the  title  of  the  money  to  the  messenger,  and 
the  messenger  shall  be  able  to  give  a  receipt  in  his  own  name ; 
as  it  happened  with  R.  Abba,  who  was  the  creditor  of  R.  Joseph 
bar  Hama,  and  the  former  asked  R.  Safra  to  bring  it  when  he 
returned.  And  when  R.  Safra  demanded  the  money,  said  Rabha 
the  son  of  R.  Joseph  to  him:  "  Did  R.  Abba  give  you  a  receipt 
for  the  amount?"  and  he  answered,  "  No."  Then  he  said: 
"  Gg  and  take  from  him  a  receipt  first."  Finally,  after  recon- 
sidering, he  said  to  him:  "  Even  if  you  would  have  a  receipt,  I 
would  not  give  you  the  money,  for  the  reason  that  perhaps 
until  you  will  reach  him,  he  will  be  dead,  and  this  money  will 
belong  to  his  orphans,  so  that  the  receipt  of  R.  Abba  would  be 


236  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

of  no  value."  And  when  R.  Safra  questioned  what  then  should 
be  done,  he  replied:  "  Let  him  rather  assign  the  amount  to  you 
with  real  estate,  and  you  will  give  us  a  receipt,"  in  your  own 
name ;  as  it  happened  that  R.  Papa  had  to  collect  twelve  thou- 
sand zuz  from  one  in  the  city  of  Husai,  and  he  assigned  them 
to  R.  Samuel  bar  Abba  with  the  threshold  of  his  house,  and 
when  the  latter  returned,  R.  Papa  went  forth  to  meet  him  even 
to  the  city  of  Toach. 

'*  If  he  has  paid,''  etc.  From  this  is  to  be  inferred  that  the 
fifth  part  is  not  considered  a  fine,  but  an  addition  to  the  prin- 
cipal ;  and  if  the  robbed  one  dies,  it  must  be  paid  to  his  heirs ; 
and  so  it  seems  from  the  latter  part  of  our  Mishna:  "  He  has 
to  add  a  fifth  part  to  the  fifth  part."  And  so  also  it  is  plainly 
stated  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  If  one  has  robbed  and  has 
sworn  falsely  and  then  he  dies,  the  heir  must  pay  the  principal 
amount  and  the  fifth  part,  but  they  are  free  from  the  trespass 
offering."  So  we  see,  then,  that  the  heirs  are  subject  to  the 
payment  of  the  fifth  part  for  their  father.  Is  there  not  a  con- 
tradiction from  the  following  Boraitha:  "It  is  written  '  which 
he  robbed,'  which  signifies  that  only  of  his  robbery  a  fifth  must 
be  added,  but  not  of  that  of  his  father's  "  ?  And  in  addition  to 
this,  the  Boraitha  states:  "  Still  one  may  say  that  so  it  is  when 
neither  the  father  nor  the  son  has  sworn  falsely;  but  if  both  or 
one  of  them  has  sworn,  the  fifth  must  be  paid.  Therefore  it  is 
written  [Lev.  v.  23] :  '  What  he  has  taken  violently  away,  or 
the  wages  which  he  has  withheld  ' ;  and  here  the  son  did  noth- 
ing of  the  kind."  (Hence  we  see  that  the  fifth  part  is  consid- 
ered a  fine  for  the  false  oath,  and  not  an  addition  to  the 
amount  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman:  "  This  presents  no  difficulty. 
Our  Mishna  speaks  of  a  father  who  confessed  the  robbery,  and 
the  Boraitha  speaks  when  he  did  not."  If  he  did  not  confess, 
then  the  principal  amount  also  should  not  be  paid  ?  And  lest 
one  say  it  is  indeed  so,  why  then  speak  about  the  fifth  part 
only?  from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  principal  part  is 
to  be  paid,  and  aside  of  this  the  Boraitha  cited  above  states: 
"  And  still  one  may  say,  the  son  has  to  pay  the  principal 
amount  for  the  father's  robbery  only  when  both  the  son  and 
father  have  sworn.  Where  we  know,  however,  that  the  same 
is  the  case,  when  both  or  one  of  them  did  not  swear  ?  From 
the  four  distinct  expressions  of  robbery,  wages,  lost  things,  and 
deposit  from  which  we  deduce  it?"  [When  R.  Huna  had  re- 
peated this  Halakha  in  the  presence  of  his  son  Rabba,  the  latter 


TRACT   BABA   KAMA   (THE    FIRST   GATE).  237 

questioned:  "My  master,  do  you  mean  to  deduce  from  this 
scripture  that  it  must  be  paid,  or  you  say  is  it  common  ?  "  And 
he  answered:  "  I  said  it  is  to  be  deduced  from  the  above  expres- 
sions mentioned  in  the  scripture.]  But  let  us  see  what  did  R. 
Na'hman  mean  by  his  expression,  "he  has  not  confessed"  ? 
"  That  the  father  had  not  confessed,  but  the  son  did;  then  that 
the  son  pay  the  fifth  part  for  his  own  guilt."  It  may  be  said 
that  the  robbed  article  is  no  more  in  existence,  and  in  such  a 
case  the  son  is  no  more  obliged  to  pay  even  the  principal 
amount  (explained  further  on  in  Chap.  X.).  If  so,  even  the 
principal  amount  should  not  be  paid  ?  The  case  was  there  one  of 
real  estate  left  by  the  father.)  But  even  then  this  is  only  a  loan 
without  a  note,  which  is  not  to  be  collected,  either  from  the 
buyers  or  heirs  ?  It  may  be  said  that  the  case  was  after  it  was 
already  in  the  court.  If  so,  even  the  fifth  part  should  be  paid  ? 
Said  R.  Huna,  the  son  of  R.  Joshua:  "  It  is  because  the  money 
in  question  is  not  to  be  paid  upon  a  disavowal  which  is  to  be 
collected  from  real  estate  only."  Rabha  said:  "  The  case  was 
that  the  robbed  article  was  deposited  somewhere  of  which  the 
son  had  no  knowledge  when  he  swore.  The  principal  is  to  be 
paid  because  it  is  still  in  existence;  the  fifth  part,  however,  he 
must  not  pay,  because  the  oath  was  not  false,  as  he  was  not 
aware  of  it." 

"  Except  less  than  the  value  of  a  parutha."  Said  R.  Papa: 
"There  is  no  difference  if  the  robbed  article  exists  or  not; 
he  is  not  obliged  to  travel  after  him  for  the  purpose  of  re- 
turning, as  the  fear  that  it  may  become  dearer  is  not  to  be 
taken  into  consideration."  Rabha  said:  If  one  has  robbed 
three  bunches  of  the  value  of  three  paruthas,  and  then  the 
bunches  became  cheaper,  three  for  two,  even  when  he  had  re- 
turned two  bunches  to  him,  he  must  return  the  third  also ;  and 
this  can  be  proved  from  our  Mishna  where  it  is  stated,  that 
when  he  robbed  leavened  bread  before  passover,  etc.,  he  may 
say:  "  Yours  is  before  you."  From  which  it  is  to  be  inferred 
that  it  is  so  only  when  the  robbed  article  exists  still  in  the  same 
form  as  it  was  before;  but  if  it  does  not  exist,  he  would  be 
obliged  to  pay  him  the  full  amount,  although  it  is  now  of  no 
value  at  all.  The  same  is  the  case  here ;  although  it  has  now  no 
more  the  value  of  a  parutha,  he  must  nevertheless  pay  for  it 
because  it  had  this  value  before.  He  was  in  doubt,  however, 
in  the  following  case:  If  one  has  robbed  two  bunches  of  the 
value  of  3.paruika,  and  had  returned  one  of  them,  how  is  the 


238  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

law  ?  Shall  we  say:  There  it  is  no  robbery,  or  perhaps  because 
he  has  not  returned  all  he  has  robbed,  he  must  return  it  ? 
Afterwards  he  decided  that  although  it  is  not  considered  rob- 
bery any  more,  the  commandment  to  return  it  is  not  yet  ful- 
filled. (He  must  therefore  return  it.)  Rabha  was  still  in  doubt 
in  the  following  case:  Where  one  robbing  leaven  before  pass- 
over,  etc.,  our  Mishna  states  that  he  may  say:  "  Yours  is  before 
you."  How  is  now  the  law,  when  the  robber,  after  the  leaven 
became  prohibited,  has  sworn  that  he  does  not  possess  it,  and 
that  he  did  not  rob  it ;  and  after  he  confesses  ?  Shall  we  assume 
that  in  case  the  leaven  should  be  stolen,  he  would  be  obliged  to 
pay  for  it,  although  in  that  time  it  was  of  no  value  ?  Conse- 
quently he  has  denied  a  case  of  money,  and  therefore  he  must 
repay.  Or  as  the  article  is  still  in  existence  and  of  no  value 
whatever,  his  denial  is  not  to  be  considered  a  false  one.  (Said 
the  Gemara:)  This  Halakha  in  which  Rabha  was  doubtful  to 
Rabba  was  certain,  for  he  said  elsewhere:  If  the  plaintiff 
claims  the  defendant  has  stolen  an  ox  from  him  and  he  denies 
it,  and  on  the  question,  how  then  is  the  ox  in  your  house,  he 
answers:  "  I  am  a  gratuitous  bailee  of  it,"  and  afterwards  he 
confessed  he  is  liable  because  this  oath  would  make  him  free  in 
case  it  would  be  stolen  or  lost;  the  same  is  the  case  when  he 
swore  that  he  was  a  bailee  for  hire,  because  it  would  make  him 
free  in  case  the  ox  should  break  a  leg  or  die;  and,  finally,  the 
same  is  the  case  when  he  swore  that  he  had  borrowed  it  to  do 
labor  with  it,  as  this  oath  would  make  him  free  in  case  it  should 
die  while  laboring.  Hence  we  see  that,  although  the  article  is 
before  us,  it  is  considered  as  if  he  had  denied  money,  because 
so  would  be  the  case  should  it  be  stolen.  The  same  is  also  here 
with  the  leaven.  Although  it  is  now  only  dust,  it  is  neverthe- 
less considered  as  money  for  the  reason  stated  above.  When 
Rabha  was  repeating  the  above  stated  Halakha,  Amram  ob- 
jected  from  the  following  Boraitha :  It  is  written  [Lev.  v.  22] : 
"And  he  lies  concerning  it,"  it  meant  to  exclude,  if  he  con- 
fesses the  principal  amount.  How  so  ?  If  the  plaintiff  claims 
you  have  stolen  my  ox,  and  the  defendant  denies,  and  on  the 
question,  "  How,  then,  is  my  ox  on  your  premises?"  he  an- 
swered: "  You  sold  it,  you  have  given  it  to  me  as  a  present,  or 
your  father  sold  or  gave  it  to  me  as  a  present,  or  the  ox  ran 
after  my  cow,  came  by  itself,  or  I  found  it  wandering  on  the 
way,  or  I  am  a  gratuitous,  or  bailee  for  hire,  or  I  have  bor- 
rowed it ;"  and  he  swore  so,  and  after  confessed  ;  lest  one  say  he 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  239 

is  liable  for  a  trespass  offering ;  therefore  the  above-cited  verse. 
Hence  the  Boraitha  contradicts  Rabba's  statement,  and  he 
answered :  Tardus.  This  Boraitha  speaks  of  a  case  that  he  said, 
"  Here  it  is,  take  it."  It  had  reference  to  a  case  that  the  ox 
was  still  in  the  meadow.  The  Boraitha  states:  "Thou  hast 
sold  it."  What  confession  of  the  principal  claim  is  then  to  be 
found  in  such  an  answer  or  in  the  answer  of  the  defendant, 
"  You  or  your  father  gave  it  to  me  as  a  present "  ?  In  case  of 
selling  he  told  him  at  the  same  time  that  he  bought  it  and  did 
not  yet  pay,  or  "  that  you  or  your  father  gave  it  to  me  under 
the  condition  I  should  do  something  for  him,  which  I  did  not 
do,  and  therefore  take  your  ox  and  go."  But  what  answer  is 
this  to  "  I  have  found  it  wandering  on  the  way"?  should  not 
the  plaintiff  claim,  "  If  so,  was  not  your  obligation  to  return 
it  to  me?"  Said  the  father  of  Samuel:  "The  answer  was, 
I  swear  that  I  have  found  it  as  a  lost  thing,  and  I  did  not  know 
it  is  yours." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  Ben  Azai  said:  "There 
are  three  different  oaths  concerning  the  testimony  of  a  witness 
regarding  a  lost  thing;  namely,  {a)  I  knew  that  it  was  a  lost 
thing,  but  I  do  not  know  who  found  it;  He  knew  the  finder; 
(^)  I  know  the  finder  some,  but  I  do  not  know  what  he  found; 
and  {c)  I  know  the  finder  and  the  article  lost."  To  what  pur- 
pose did  Ben  Azai  state  it  ?  R.  Ami  in  the  name  of  R.  Hanina 
said:  "  He  said  it  to  make  the  witness  free  from  a  trespass 
offering,"  Samuel,  however,  said:  "To  make  him  liable." 
And  these  two  Amoraim  differ  in  the  same  as  the  Tanaim  of  a 
Boraitha  elsewhere  differ,  and  the  point  of  their  difference  is 
whether  a  germon  is  to  be  considered  as  pecuniary  damage  or 
not.     (Explained  above,  p.  224.) 

R.  Shesheth  says:  "  One  who  denies  a  deposit  trusted  to 
him  is  considered  as  a  robber  of  it,  and  is  liable  even  for  an 
accident."  And  this  can  be  proved  from  the  following  Bo- 
raitha: "And  lie  concerning,"  etc.  In  that  passage  we  read 
of  the  punishment  of  telling  a  lie,  but  where  is  the  warning 
against  it?  Therefore  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  xx.  21]  :  "  Neither 
shall  he  deny."  Is  it  not  to  be  assumed  that  the  punishment  is 
for  the  denying,  even  without  an  oath  ?  Nay,  the  punishment 
is  for  false  swearing.  But  if  so,  how  is  it  to  be  understood  the 
later  part  of  the  same  Boraitha?  It  is  written  [ibid.  v.  21]: 
"  And  swear  falsely."  In  this  passage  we  read  the  punishment, 
but  where  is  the  warning?    Therefore  it  is  written  [v.  22]  :  "  Nor 


240  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

He."  Now  as  the  later  part  speaks  of  swearing,  is  it  not  to  be 
inferred  that  the  first  part  speaks  without  swearing  ?  It  may 
be  said  in  the  first  part  also,  an  oath  is  meant  which  was  found 
false  by  witnesses,  and  in  such  a  case  he  is  liable  even  for  an 
accident ;  the  later  part,  however,  speaks  when  it  was  found  to 
be  false  by  his  own  confession,  and  in  such  a  case  he  must  add 
the  fifth  part  to  the  principal  amount  and  a  trespass  offering. 

R.  Huna  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  If  the  plaintiff  claims 
a  hundred  zuz,  and  the  defendant  denies  and  takes  an  oath,  he  is 
free  even  when  witnesses  testify  against  him,  because  it  is  writ- 
ten [Ex.  xxii.  20]:  "  And  the  owner  of  it  shall  accept  this,  and 
he  shall  not  make  it  good."  From  this  it  is  deduced  that  as 
soon  as  the  owner  has  taken  an  oath,  he  has  not  to  pay  any 
more  money.  Said  Rabha:  "  Rabh's  theory  seems  to  be  cor- 
rect in  the  case  of  a  loan,  as  the  money  was  taken  for  spending; 
but  in  the  case  of  a  deposit  which  ought  to  be  returned  as  it 
was,  it  is  still  considered  under  the  control  of  the  owner,  wher- 
ever it  is."  In  reality,  however,  Rabh  had  said  this  even  in 
case  of  a  deposit,  as  the  verse  of  the  Scripture  refers  to  such 
a  case.  R.  Na'hman  was  sitting  and  repeating  this  Halakha. 
R.  A'ha  bar  Minyumi,  from  R.  Na'hman,  objected  to  it  from 
the  following  Boraitha:  "Where  is  my  deposit?"  and  the 
other  answered:  "  It  is  lost,"  and  the  first  said:  "  Do  you  swear 
(and  so  may  God  help  you)  ?  "  And  he  answered:  "Amen." 
Witnesses  testified,  however,  that  he  had  consumed  it,  he  must 
pay  its  value  only;  but  if  he  himself  confessed,  he  must  add  a 
fifth  part  and  a  trespass  offering.  (Hence  there  is  a  payment 
after  swearing?)  And  R.  Na'hman  answered:  "  The  case  was 
when  the  oath  was  taken  out  of  court,  which  is  not  consid- 
ered legal."  Said  the  former  again:  "If  it  is  so,  how  is  the 
later  part  of  the  same  Boraitha  to  be  understood :  '  Where  is 
my  deposit?'"  And  he  answered:  "It  is  stolen;  do  you 
swear,"  etc.,  and  he  said  "  Amen."  And  witnesses  testified 
that  he  himself  had  stolen  it,  he  must  pay  double ;  if,  however, 
he  confessed,  he  must  add  only  a  fifth  part,  etc.,  to  the  prin- 
cipal and  a  trespass  offering.  Now  if  it  is  as  you  say  that  the 
oath  took  place  out  of  the  court,  can  there  be  a  double  payment 
without  the  court?  And  R.  Na'hman  rejoined:  "  I  could  ex- 
plain to  you  that  the  first  part  speaks  of  an  oath  without  and 
the  later  in  the  presence  of  the  court.  I  don't  like,  however, 
to  give  you  an  incomprehensible  explanation.  It  may  be  ex- 
plained that  the  oath  was  taken  in  the  court,  and  it  presents 


TRACT    BABA    KAJMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  241 

nevertheless  no  difficulty,  as  the  Boraitha  speaks  of  a  case  when 
the  defendant  took  the  oath  of  his  own  volition  (before  he  was 
ordered  by  the  court  to  do  so,  in  which  case  the  oath  does  not 
make  him  free  from  payment).  And  Rabh  speaks  when  the 
defendant  took  the  oath  by  the  order  of  the  court."  Said  Rami 
bar  Hama  to  R.  Na'hman:  "  Let  us  see;  the  theory  of  Rabh 
seems  to  be  not  acceptable  to  you,  why  then  the  trouble  to 
explain  the  Boraitha  in  accord  with  his  theory?"  And  he 
answered:  "It  is  only  to  interpret  Rabh  as  he  would  explain 
the  Boraitha."  But  did  not  Rabh  deduce  his  theory  from  the 
above  verse  ?  It  may  be  said,  this  verse  is  needed,  that  all 
those  who  must  take  an  oath  biblically  swear  and  do  not  pay; 
and  the  verse  is  to  be  interpreted  thus:  He  who  has  to  pay, 
must  swear,  and  the  plaintiff  must  accept  it.  Rabha  objected 
from  the  following  Boraitha:  "  If  one  declares  that  the  deposit 
confined  to  his  care  was  stolen,  and  he  had  sworn  falsely,  and 
then  he  confessed  and  witnesses  testified  also  against  him ;  if 
his  confession  was  before  the  testimony  of  the  witnesses,  he 
must  add  a  fifth  part  and  a  trespass  offering,  but  if  the  witnesses 
testified  first,  the  double  amount  must  be  paid  and  an  offering. 
Now,  either  explanations  of  an  oath  out  of  the  court  or  without 
the  order  of  it,  cannot  apply  here  because  of  a  double  payment 
which  cannot  be  paid  without  a  legal  oath,  and  yet  he  must 
pay."  Rabha  therefore  said:  "  In  case  of  a  confession,  no  mat- 
ter if  he  claims  it  was  lost  or  stolen,  he  must  always  add  the 
fifth  part  and  trespass  offering,  even  in  accord  with  Rabh,  for 
he  cannot  deny  the  verse.  'And  he  confessed  *  what  he  has 
sinned  '  [Lev.  v.  5] ;  and  also  if  he  claims  it  was  stolen,  and  wit- 
nesses are  against  him,  he  must  pay  the  double  amount  even  in 
accord  with  Rabh,  as  this  is  also  written  plainly  in  the  Scripture. 
His  theory,  then,  is  only  when  he  claims  '  lost '  and  swears,  and 
witnesses  testify  against  him  without  a  confession  on  his  part." 
R.  Hyya  bar  Abba,  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  said:  "  One 
who  claims  '  stolen  '  on  a  deposit,  or  of  a  lost  article  he  has 
found,  must  pay  double,  and  if  he  has  slaughtered  or  sold 
must  pay  four  and  five  fold;  because  he  is  considered  as  if 
he  himself  had  stolen."  He  himself,  however,  objected  to  it 
from  the  following  Boraitha:  "Where  is  my  ox?"  and  he 
answered,  "  Stolen."  "  Do  you  swear  by  God  ?"  and  he  said, 
"Amen."  Witnesses,  however,  testified  that  he  consumed 
it;  then  he  pays  double.     Now,  could  he  then  eat  meat  with- 

*  Leaser  translates  "he  shall  confess";  the  Talmud,  however,  takes  it  literally. 


242  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

out  previous  slaughtering  it  and  nevertheless  he  pays  only 
double,  but  not  four  and  five  fold  only."  It  may  be  said  that  he 
had  eaten  it  when  it  was  a  carcass  {i.e.,  it  was  killed  by  another 
one).  The  same  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority: 
"  If  one  claims  stolen  of  a  lost  article  which  he  found,  he 
must  pay  double.  Why  so  ?  Because  it  is  written  [Ex.  xxii. 
8]:  '  Or  for  any  manner  of  lost  things,  of  which  he  can  say,' 
etc."  He  said  again  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  That  he  who 
claims  "  stolen"  on  a  deposit  is  not  liable  for  a  biblical  oath 
until  he  admits  a  part  of  it.  Why  so  ?  Because  it  is  written 
[ibid.,  ibid.]:  "This  it  is,"  which  means  that  a  part  of  it  is 
admitted;  and  he  differs  with  R.  Hyya  bar  Joseph,  who  says 
that  the  verse  applies  to  the  case  of  a  creditor,  and  was  inserted 
here  through  an  error.  Rami  bar  Hama  taught :  The  four 
bailees — a  gratuitous,  a  borrower,  a  bailee  for  hire,  and  a  hirer 
— are  not  liable  to  a  biblical  oath  until  they  admit  a  part.  Said 
Rabha:  "  His  reason  is  because  in  the  case  of  a  gratuitous 
bailee,  it  is  plainly  written  [ibid.]:  'Thus  it  is,'  and  for  a 
bailee  for  hire  there  is  an  analogy  of  expression,  '  giving,'  which 
reads  in  both  cases.  A  borrower  is  also  included  in  the  word 
[ibid.,  ibid.  13]  '  and,'  which  means  that  this  case  shall  be 
equal  to  the  former.  And  concerning  a  hirer,  according  to  him 
who  declares  him  equal  to  a  gratuitous  bailee,  then  the  law  of 
latter  applies  to  him  also,  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  him  who 
declares  him  a  bailee  for  hire."  Said  R.  Abbin,  in  the  name  of 
R.  Elia,  quoting  R.  Johanan:  "  If  one  has  claimed  that  a  bail- 
ment is  lost  and  swears  afterwards  he  claimed  it  was  stolen,  and 
swears  again,  he  is  free  from  .the  double  amount,  even  when 
witnesses  testify  against  him ;  because  the  first  oath  makes  him 
free  towards  the  owner  (and  the  second  oath,  which  would  not 
be  ordered  by  the  court,  must  not  be  taken  into  consideration)." 
R.  Shesheth  said:  If  one  claims  of  a  bailment  "stolen,"  as 
soon  as  he  has  made  use  of  it,  he  is  free;  and  the  reason  is 
because  the  Scripture  reads  [Ex.  xxii.  2]:  "Then  shall  the 
master  of  the  house  be  brought  unto  the  judges  (to  swear)  that 
he  had  not  stretched  out  his  hand";  from  which  it  is  to  be 
deduced  that  if  he  had  made  use  of  it,  he  is  free  (from  the 
double  amount).*  Said  R.  Na'hman  to  him:  "Is  not  the 
three  oaths:  first,  that  I  have  done  all  my  duty  in  taking  care 
of  it;  second,  that  I  did  not  make  use  of  it;  and  third,  that 
it  is  not  under  my  control  ?  Now,  is  it  not  to  be  assumed 
*  Because  he  is  guilty  of  a  falsehood. 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA   (THE    FIRST    GATE).  243 

that  the  second  oath  is  equal  to  the  third  ?  As  by  the  third, 
when  thereafter  it  was  known  that  it  is  under  his  control  he 
must  pay,  the  same  is  the  case  when  it  was  known  that  he 
had  made  use  of  it  ? "  And  he  answered:  "  Nay,  the  second  is 
equal  to  the  first,  as  by  the  first  he  is  free  from  the  double 
amount,  when  it  was  found  that  he  was  careless  with  it ;  so  is 
the  same  in  the  case  when  he  had  made  use  of  it." 

Rami  bar  Hama  questioned:  "Is  it  the  payment  of  the 
double  amount  that  makes  him  free  from  the  fifth  part,  or  is  it 
the  oath  which  makes  him  liable  for  the  double  amount  that 
frees  from  the  same  payment  ?  "  What  should  be  the  difference 
(between  both  suppositions)  thus,  e.g.,  if  one  claims  "  stolen," 
and  swears  falsely,  and  thereafter  he  claims  on  the  same  "  lost," 
and  swears  again  and  witnesses  testify  regarding  the  theft  and 
he  himself  confesses  regarding  it,  "  lost  "  ?  Now,  if  the  claim 
"  theft,"  which  causes  the  double  amount,  makes  him  free  from 
the  fifth  part,  in  that  case  he  was  already  liable  for  the  double 
amount ;  and  if  the  oath  that  causes  the  double  amount  absolves 
him  from  the  fifth  part,  then  the  second  oath,  which  did  not 
cause  the  double  payment,  should  make  him  liable  for  the  fifth 
part  ?  Said  Rabha:  Come  and  hear:  "  If  one  said  to  somebody 
in  the  market :  '  Where  is  my  ox  which  you  have  stolen  ? '  and 
he  says:  '  I  have  not*  ;  '  Do  you  swear,'  etc.,  and  he  says, 
'Amen,'  and  witnesses  testify  that  he  did  steal,  he  must  pay 
the  double  amount ;  if,  however,  he  has  confessed  without  wit- 
nesses, he  pays  the  principal  and  the  fifth  part  and  an  offering. 
Now,  in  this  case  the  witnesses  are  the  cause  of  the  double 
amount,  and  if  he  should  confess  after  the  witnesses  appear,  he 
would  not  be  absolved  from  the  double  payment,  but  from  the 
fifth  part.  Now,  if  the  oath  which  causes  the  double  payment 
absolves  him  from  the  fifth  part,  why  is  he  absolved  from  it  even 
if  he  has  confessed  after  the  witnesses  appear  ?  Let  us  see. 
The  last  oath  was  not  the  cause  of  double  payment ;  let  it  make 
him  liable  for  the  fifth  part;  we  must  therefore  say  that  the 
money  which  causes  the  double  amount  makes  him  free  from 
the  fifth  part."     Infer  from  this. 

Rabbina  questioned:  "  If  there  is  a  case  of  the  fifth  part 
and  the  double  amount  with  two  different  persons  in  the  very 
same  case,  e.g.,  one  has  given  his  ox  for  care  to  two  persons 
and  both  claimed  '  stolen,'  one  has  sworn  and  thereafter  con- 
fessed; and  one  has  sworn  and  was  denied  by  witnesses.  How 
is  it  ?     Shall  we  assume   that  with   one  person  is  the  Scrip- 


244  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

ture  particular  that  both  the  fifth  part  and  the  double  amount 
shall  not  come  together;  but  with  two  persons  one  shall  pay  the 
double  amount  and  one  the  fifth  part,  or  the  law  is  particular 
that  in  one  and  the  same  case  the  above  both  fines  shall  not 
occur?"  This  question  remains  unanswered.  R.  Papa  ques- 
tioned: "  If  there  is  a  case  of  two-fifths  part  or  two  double 
amounts  with  one  man,  how  is  it?"  E.g.,  if  the  claim  was 
"  lost,"  and  he  swore  and  confessed  and  then  he  repeated  again 
the  claim  "  lost,''  and  swore  and  confessed  again,  in  which  case, 
according  to  the  law,  he  should  be  liable  for  two  fifth  parts  and 
one  principal  amount,  and  the  same  question  is,  if  the  claim  was 
"  stolen  " ;  he  was  denied  by  witnesses  after  he  swore  and  this 
was  done  twice.  Shall  we  assume  that  the  Scripture  is  particu- 
lar only  that  two  different  kinds  of  fines  should  not  be  paid  in 
one  and  the  same  case,  and  here  it  is  only  one  kind;  or  perhaps 
the  Scripture  is  particular  that  no  two  fines  shall  take  place  in 
the  case  ?  Come  and  hear.  Rabha  said  [Lev.  v.]:  "  And  the 
fifth  parts  thereof."*  Hence  we  see  that  the  Scripture  has 
added  many  fifth  parts  to  one  principal.     Infer  from  this. 

"  If  a  gratuitous  bailee  swore  it  was  '  stolen,*  and  neverthe- 
less he  paid  the  full  amount  and  then  the  thief  was  found,  to 
whom  is  the  double  amount  to  be  paid  ?"  Abayi  said:  "  To 
the  owner,  because,  as  the  bailee  did  not  pay  until  he  was  sum- 
moned and  ordered  by  the  court  to  pay  or  swear,  although  he 
did  both,  the  owner  did  not  pass  the  title  of  the  double  amount 
to  him."  Rabha,  however,  says  :  "  To  the  bailee  who  has  paid 
the  amount,  no  matter  before  or  after  swearing."  f  If  the  bailee 
was  summoned,  and  he  has  sworn  and  then  the  thief  was  found, 
and  when  he  was  asked  by  the  bailee  he  confessed ;  when,  how- 
ever, the  thief  was  summoned  by  the  owner  he  denied,  but  wit- 
nesses testified  to  the  theft.  Should  the  thief  be  absolved  from 
the  double  payment  on  account  of  his  confession  to  the  bailee 
or  not  (because  at  that  time  the  bailee  had  nothing  more  to  do 
with  this)  ?  Said  Rabha:  "  If  the  bailee  has  sworn  to  the  truth, 
it  is  to  believe  that  the  owner  has  confidence  in  him  still,  and 
it  is  considered  that  the  ox  is  still  under  his  control,  and  there- 
fore the  confession  of  the  thief  to  the  bailee  is  to  be  taken  in 

*  In  the  Bible  it  is  written  in  the  phiral,  which  the  Talmud  takes  literally. 

f  The  Gemara  explains  that  both  Amaraim  made  their  conclusion  from  a  ]\Iishna 
in  the  Middle  Gate,  which  each  of  them  explains  according  to  his  theory,  one  of 
the  first  part  of  the  Mishna  and  one  of  the  second  part,  and  as  it  is  both  too  com- 
plicated and  not  of  great  importance,  we  have  omitted  it. 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  245 

consideration.  But  if  he  has  sworn  falsely  (the  consequence  of 
which  is  that  the  owner  loses  confidence  in  him),  then  the  con- 
fession of  the  thief  to  the  bailee  is  of  no  value. ' '  It  was  taught : 
"  If  the  bailee  claims  the  article  was  stolen  by  accident  and  then 
the  thief  was  found."  Said  Abayi:  "  If  he  was  a  gratuitous 
bailee,  the  chance  is  given  to  him  either  to  swear  or  to  pay.  If 
it  was  accidentally  and  the  owner  collects  the  double  amount 
from  the  thief,  or  he  (the  bailee)  pays  the  principal,  the  double 
amount  shall  belong  to  him,  and  if  he  is  a  bailee  for  hire,  he 
must  pay  to  the  owner,  and  the  trouble  with  the  thief  he  must 
take  upon  himself."  Rabha,  however,  says:  "  There  is  no  dif- 
ference what  kind  of  a  bailee  he  was.  The  prosecution  of  the 
thief  is  always  upon  the  bailee  (and  for  his  trouble  he  collects 
the  double  amount,  but  no  oath  is  to  be  ordered)." 

Rabba  Zuti*  questioned  thus:  "  If  it  was  stolen  by  accident 
and  the  thief  had  returned  it  to  the  bailee,  and  then  it  dies  in 
his  house  by  negligence,  what  is  the  law  ?  Shall  we  assume 
that  from  the  moment  it  was  stolen  by  accident  he  ceased  to 
be  the  bailee  of  it  (and  so  he  is  no  more  responsible),  or  per- 
haps he  became  its  bailee  again  as  soon  as  it  is  returned  to 
him."     This  question  remains  unanswered. 

MISHNA  F/. :  "Where  is  my  bailment?"  And  he  an- 
swers lost !  Do  you  swear  by  God?  etc.,  and  he  says  "  Amen." 
Witnesses  testified  that  he  had  consumed  it,  and  he  must  pay 
the  amount.  [If,  however,  he  has  confessed  without  witnesses, 
he  must  add  a  fifth  part  and  an  offering.]  Where  is  my  bail- 
ment ?  "It  was  stolen."  "Do  you  swear?"  and  he  says 
"  Amen."  Witnesses  testified  that  he  himself  had  stolen  it, 
he  pays  the  double  amount.  By  self-confession,  however,  he 
must  add  a  fifth  part  to  the  principal  amount,  and  bring  a  tres- 
pass offering.  If  one  robbed  his  father  and  swore  falsely,  and 
after  his  death  he  confessed  and  desired  to  return  the  robbed 
articles,  he  pays  the  principal  and  the  fifth  part  to  his  brothers 
or  to  his  father's  brothers.  If  he  does  not  want  to  pay  his  share, 
or  he  has  not  with  what  he  may  borrow  from  his  friends,  and 
the  creditors  will  collect  it  from  his  part  of  the  estate;  e.g.,  if 
there  are  three  brothers,  they  collect  from  the  estate  a  third 

*  He  was  a  contemporary  of  R.  Ashi,  many  generations  after  Abba  bar  Na'h- 
many,  who  is  generally  named  "  Rabba."  The  name,  however,  of  the  former  is  un- 
known. Some  maintain  that  his  name  was  Zuti,  and  Rabba  was  only  his  title,  and 
some  say  that  Zuti  means  "  little,"  and  he  was  so  named  to  distinguish  him  from  the 
former. 


246  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

part  of  the  robbed  articles  and  the  remainder  from  himself.  If 
one  says  to  his  son:  "I  swear  you  shall  not  have  any  benefit 
from  my  estate  "  ;  if  he  dies,  he  may  inherit;  if  the  oath  was 
neither  in  his  lifetime  nor  after  his  death,  then  he  does  not 
inherit.  He  may,  however,  transfer  his  part  to  his  sons  or 
brothers,  but  if  he  has  nothing  to  eat,  he  may  borrow  from  his 
friends,  and  they  will  collect  it  from  the  inheritance. 

GEMARA :  *  Whence  do  we  deduce  all  this  ?  From  what 
the  rabbis  taught.  It  is  written  [Ex.  xxii.  6]  :  "If  the  thief  be 
found."  The  verse  here  treats  of  one  who  claims  that  it  was 
stolen  from  him.  Thou  sayest  so,  but  perhaps  the  verse  treats 
of  the  thief  himself  ?  From  the  fact  that  the  verse  states  fur- 
ther [ibid.  7]:  "If  the  thief  be  not  found,"  it  is  to  be  inferred 
that  that  verse  treats  of  one  who  claims  that  it  was  stolen.  We 
have  learned  in  another  Boraitha:  It  is  written:  "  If  the  thief 
be  found,"  the  verse  treats  of  the  thief  himself.  Thou  sayest 
so,  but  perhaps  it  treats  of  one  who  claims  that  it  was  stolen  ? 
If  it  states  further  on,  "  If  the  thief  be  not  found,"  which  plainly 
means  one  who  claims  that  it  was  stolen,  how  then  is  the  verse, 
"  If  the  thief  be  found,"  to  be  construed  ?  hence  it  refers  to  the 
thief  himself. 

Now,  then,  all  agree  that  the  verse,  "  If  the  thief  be  not 
found,"  refers  to  one  who  claims  that  it  was  stolen.  Whence  is 
this  deduced?  Said  Rabha:  The  verse  is  to  be  interpreted 
thus:  "  If  it  should  be  found  out  that  it  is  not  as  he  claimed 
(that  it  was  stolen  by  somebody  else),  but  that  he  himself  stole 
it,  then  he  shall  pay  double." 

Whence  do  we  deduce  that  it  is  so  only  when  he  was  put 
under  oath  ?  From  what  we  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha. 
It  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  7]:  "Then  shall  the  master  of  the 
house  be  brought  to  the  judges";  that  means,  to  put  him 
under  oath.  Thou  sayest  so,  but  perhaps  it  means  only  for 
payment?  It  states  further  on  [ibid.  10]  "that  he  have  not 
stretched  out  his  hand,"  and  it  states  the  same  thing  above 
[ibid.  7],  as  there  it  means  under  oath  (for  it  states  so  plainly),  so 
also  here  it  means  under  oath.  It  would  be  right  according 
to  the  Tana  who  says  that  one  verse  treats  of  the  thief  himself 
and  the  other  one  treats  of  one  who  claims  that  it  was  stolen ; 
therefore  it  is  necessary  to  have  two  verses;  but  according  to 
the  Tana  who  holds  that  both  verses  treat  of  one  who  claimed 

*  Transferred  from  the  seventh  chapter  of  this  tract  from  the  Gemara  belonging 
to  the  First  Mishna  there.     The  proper  place  is,  however,  here. 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  247 

that  it  was  stolen,  why  two  verses  ?  It  may  be  said  that  one  is 
to  exclude,  when  he  claimed  that  it  was  lost.  But  according  to 
the  Tana  who  says  that  one  treats  of  the  thief  himself  and  the 
other  of  one  who  claims  that  it  was  stolen ;  and  therefore  both 
verses  were  necessary.  Whence  does  he  deduce  as  to  the  claim 
of  having  been  lost  ?  From  the  fact  that  it  states  "  the  thief  " 
instead  of  "  thief." 

''  If  one  robs  his  father ,'  etc.  Said  R.  Joseph:  *'  In  case 
there  are  no  heirs  but  him,  he  must  give  it  for  charity."  Said 
R.  Papa:  "  He  must  mention  (in  returning  it)  that  this  is  the 
money  he  robbed  from  his  father."  Let  us  see  (in  case  there 
are  no  heirs  but  him)  why  he  shall  not  be  allowed  to  relinquish 
the  property  to  himself.  Did  not  we  learn  in  the  Mishna  stated 
above:  "  If  he  has  relinquished  the  principal  amount,  but  not 
the  fifth  part,"  of  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  it  can  be  relin- 
quished? Said  R.  Johanan:  "This  presents  no  difficulty,  as 
the  cited  Mishna  is  in  accord  with  R.  Jose  the  Galilean,  and 
our  Mishna  is  in  accord  with  R.  Aqiba  of  the  following  Boraitha: 
*  It  is  written  [Numb,  v.]:  But  if  the  man  has  no  kinsmen  to 
whom  restitution  could  be  made  for  the  trespass.'  Could  there 
be  an  Israelite  that  has  no  relatives  or  kinsmen?  We  must  there- 
fore say  that  the  Scripture  speaks  of  a  proselyte  who  was  robbed 
by  an  Israelite.  If  one  robbed  a  proselyte  and  swore  falsely 
and  afterwards  he  repented,  having  heard  that  the  proselyte  was 
dead,  he  was  about  to  bring  the  money  and  trespass  offering  to 
Jerusalem  (according  to  the  law),  where  he  met  the  proselyte, 
who  was  still  alive,  and  settled  with  him  to  keep  the  robbery  as 
a  loan,  and  afterwards  the  proselyte  died,  he  acquires  title  on 
what  he  holds  in  his  hands."  This  is  the  decree  of  R.  Jose  the 
Galilean.  R.  Aqiba,  however,  says:  "  There  is  no  remedy  for 
him  (until  the  robbed  article  is  out  of  his  hand)."  According 
to  R.  Jose  the  Galilean,  he  may  relinquish  to  others  as  well  as 
to  himself  ;  and  according  to  R.  Aqiba,  however,  neither  to 
others  nor  to  himself.  And  in  the  above  illustration,  where  the 
robber  had  settled  with  the  proselyte  to  count  it  as  a  loan  is 
used  only  to  make  known  the  strength  of  R.  Aqiba's  theory, 
that  even  if  the  robbed  one  himself  permits  the  robber  to  keep 
it  as  a  loan,  nevertheless  he  has  no  remedy  until  the  robbery  is 
out  of  his  hand.  Rabha,  however,  maintains  that  both  Bo- 
raithas  are  in  accordance  with  R.  Aqiba's  statement,  that 
a  relinquishment  cannot  be  made  when  it  concerns  only  him- 
self,  as  illustrated  above,  but  to  others   he  may.       [Said   the 


248  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Gemara:]  "  Let  us  see:  in  accordance  to  both  R.  Johanan  and 
Rabba,  the  theory  of  R.  Jose  the  Galilean  is  that  he  may 
relinquish  even  for  himself.  If  so,  how  would  be  the  case 
in  the  robbery  of  a  proselyte  [Numb.  v.  8]  (which,  as  ex- 
plained above,  means  of  a  proselyte),  which  must  be  returned 
to  the  priest  ?  How  can  it  be  found  ?  "  Said  Rabha:  "  It  may 
be  that  the  confession  was  after  the  proselyte's  death,  and  this 
confession  passes  title  of  the  robbery  to  the  priest  (when  he  con- 
fesses, however,  when  the  proselyte  is  still  alive,  the  robbery 
remains  a  loan  as  long  as  the  proselyte  is  alive,  and  therefore 
after  his  death  he  may  excuse  it  to  himself)."  Rabbina  ques- 
tioned: "  If  a  female  proselyte  was  robbed,  how  is  it  ?  It  is 
written  '  a  man  ' ;  should  a  woman  be  excluded,  or  is  it  only 
the  custom  of  the  verse  to  mention  a  man,  and  the  same  is  the 
case  with  a  woman? "  Said  R.  Aaron  to  Rabbina:  "  Come  and 
hear  the  following  Boraitha  :  It  is  written  a  man,  where  do 
we  know  that  the  same  is  with  a  woman  ?  As  it  is  written 
further  (to  whom  restitution  .  .  .  which  is  restored,  etc.) 
there  are  two  restitutions,  to  include  a  woman  (or  a  minor). 
Why,  then,  is  mentioned  a  man  ?  to  teach  that  if  it  was  a  man 
one  must  investigate  if  he  has  some  kinsman,  but  if  a  minor  the 
investigation  is  not  necessary  (because  it  is  self-evident  that  a 
minor,  who  is  a  proselyte,  has  no  kinsman)." 

MISHNA  VII. :  If  one  robbed  a  proselyte  and  swore,  and 
afterward  the  proselyte  died,  he  must  add  a  fifth  part  to  the 
principal  for  the  priest,  and  a  trespass  offering  to  the  altar,  as 
it  is  written:  (But  if  the  man  have  no  kinsman,  etc.,  as  quoted 
above  [Numb.  v.  8]).  If,  however,  while  bringing  the  money  and 
the  trespass  offering  to  Jerusalem  the  robber  dies,  the  money 
may  be  transferred  to  his  children,  and  the  trespass  offering 
shall  be  fed  until  it  gets  a  blemish,  and  then  it  shall  be  sold, 
and  the  money  shall  be  used  for  a  voluntary  offering.  If,  how- 
ever, he  dies  after  the  money  was  transferred  to  the  priest  of 
that  week,  his  heirs  cannot  collect  it  from  them,  as  it  is  written 
[ibid.,  ibid.  lo]:  "  Whatsoever  any  man  gives  to  the  priest  shall 
belong  to  him."  If  he  has  given  the  money  to  the  department 
of  Jehayary,  and  the  offering  to  that  of  Jadaiah  in  the  next 
week,  he  has  fulfilled  his  duty.  If,  however,  he  has  transferred 
the  trespass  offering  first,  and  the  next  week  he  has  given  the 
money  to  the  other  department,  if  the  consecrated  animal  is 
still  in  existence  the  priest  of  the  second  week  may  offer  it; 
and  if  not,  he  has  to  bring  another  trespass  offering,  as  the  law 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  249 

is  that  if  he  had  returned  the  robbery  before  the  trespass  offer- 
ing he  has  done  his  duty,  but  not  otherwise.  If  he  has  returned 
the  principal  only  without  the  fifth  part,  the  latter  does  not  pre- 
vent the  offering  of  the  trespass  offering  (but  he  must  afterwards 
add  the  fifth  part). 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  "  Asham  "  (the 
debt),  it  means  the  principal  amount ;  "  which  is  restored  "  means 
the  fifth  part.  (But  perhaps  the  word  "  Asham  "  means  the  ram 
[What  is  the  difference  ?  To  exclude  Rabha's  theory,  who  said 
elsewhere :  The  robbery  of  a  proselyte,  when  it  was  restored  in 
the  night-time  or  it  was  returned  in  halves,  the  duty  is  not  ful- 
filled. Why  so?  Because  the  Scripture  names  it  "Asham," 
and  as  an  Asham  cannot  be  brought  during  night-time,  or  in 
halves,  for  the  same  is  the  case  with  the  returned  robbery.]  of 
the  offering,  as  it  is  frequently  so  called.  As  at  the  end  of  the 
same  verse  it  is  written:  "  Beside  the  ram  of  the  atonement," 
etc.,  hence  the  former  word  must  be  explained  (the  amount)  as 
stated  above.) 

Rabha  said  again:  "  The  robbery  of  a  proselyte  which  con- 
tains not  the  value  of  a^parutha  to  every  priest  who  is  in  divine 
service  at  that  week,  the  duty  is  not  fulfilled."  Why  so  ?  Be- 
cause it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.]:  "  The  Asham  which  is  restored," 
of  which  is  to  be  inferred  that  a  restore  of  any  value  may  be 
made  to  each  priest.  He  said  again:  (If  there  were  two  rob- 
beries of  two  proselytes,  which  were  restored  to  the  priests)  they 
have  no  right  to  say  :  "  A  part  of  us  will  take  the  one  restored 
robbery  against  the  other  restored  robbery.  You  may  take." 
Because  in  the  Scripture  it  is  called  Asham,  it  cannot  be  divided. 

Rabha  questioned:  "  The  priests  who  receive  the  robbery  of 
the  proselyte,  are  they  considered  heirs  or  only  receivers  of  a 
donation  ?  "  What  is  the  difference  ?  If  one  has  robbed  leaven 
of  which  the  passover  was  passed  (which  has  no  legal  value),  if 
they  are  considered  heirs,  then  they  must  take  it  as  their  inher- 
itance; but  if  they  are  only  receivers  of  a  donation,  this  cannot 
be  called  a  donation,  as  it  has  no  value  and  they  must  not 
receive  it.  Come  and  hear:  "There  are  twenty-four  gifts  of 
the  priesthood  given  to  Aaron  and  his  sons  (this  Mishna  will  be 
translated  in  Tract  Hulin),  and  then  the  robbery  of  a  proselyte 
is  mentioned,  hence  it  is  considered  a  donation." 

' '  If,  however,  he  dies  after  the  money  was  delivered, ' '  etc. 
Said  Abayi:  "  Infer  from  this  that  the  robbed  money  when 
returned  atones  for  the  half,  because  if  this  would  not  be  the 


250  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

case,  it  would  state  that  the  money  must  be  returned  to  the 
heirs.  Why  so  ?  Because  when  he  has  returned  the  money, 
he  has  not  had  in  mind  to  leave  it  there  without  offering  the 
trespass  offering."  "If  so,  let  a  sin-offering,  which  remains 
after  its  owner  is  dead,  be  considered  as  a  common  animal, 
because  when  he  has  separated  it  for  a  sin-offering,  he  did  not 
bear  in  mind  that  he  will  die  before  offering  it."  (This  is  no 
question)  as  there  is  a  tradition  that  when  the  owner  dies  after 
separating  a  sin-offering,  the  animal  is  to  be  put  to  death ;  and 
the  same  tradition  is  in  case  of  a  trespass  offering,  that  when 
a  sin-offering  is  put  to  death,  the  trespass  offering  is  to  be  fed 
until  it  becomes  a  blemish. 


APPENDIX  TO  PAGE   253. 

"  R.  Ashi  the  first."  There  is  a  mark  in  the  text  by  Boaz: 
"  Perhaps  R.  Ashi  the  first  or  the  expression  '  R.  Johanan  was 
astonished'  was  said  by  R.  Ashi  himself."  The  second  sup- 
position, however,  does  not  hold  good,  as  farther  on  the  Gemara 
adds:  "  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina  accepted,"  etc.  ;  and  the  latter,  who 
was  a  Tana,  was  certainly  many  generations  before  author  of 
this  paragraph,  unless  this  also  would  be  the  continuation  of  the 
author's  declaration;  but  then  he  would  add:  '*  and^.  Jose," 
etc.     Hence  the  first  is  correct. 


CHAPTER  X. 

REGULATIONS    REGARDING    ROBBED    ARTICLES    WHICH    REMAIN    AFTER 
THE    DEATH    OF    THE    ROBBER. — IF    ONE    RECOGNIZES    HIS    STOLEN 

ARTICLES    AT    THE    PREMISES    OF    SOME  ONE. REGARDING   ROBBED 

ESTATES,   AFTERWARDS   THE    GOVERNMENT    TOOK    IT    AWAY,    ETC. 

MISHNA  /. :  If  one  has  robbed  an  edible  article  and  used 
it  for  his  family,  or  he  left  the  article  as  it  was,  his  heirs  are  free 
from  payment.  If,  however,  it  was  an  article  of  responsibility, 
they  are  obliged  to  pay.     (The  Gemara  will  explain  the  meaning.) 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Hisda:  "  If  one  has  robbed  an  article 
of  which  the  owner  did  not  renounce  the  hope  of  gaining  it,  and 
another  one  came  and  took  it  away  from  him,  the  owner  may 
collect  it  from  any  one  of  them  he  chooses.  Why  so  ?  Because 
as  long  as  the  owners  did  not  renounce  their  hope,  it  is  consid- 
ered as  it  were  still  under  their  control."  [And  our  Mishna, 
which  states  that  the  heirs  are  free  from  payment,  is  in  case 
that  the  hope  of  regaining  was  already  renounced.] 

"  Or  he  left  the  article,''  etc.  Said  Rami  bar  Hama:  "  From 
this  statement  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  control  of  an  heir  is  the 
same  as  the  control  of  a  buyer  {i.e.,  as  the  Mishna  speaks  of 
a  case  where  the  hope  of  regaining  it  is  renounced,  the  change 
of  control  gives  title,  and  the  control  of  the  heirs  after  the  death 
of  the  robber  is  also  considered  a  change  as  if  it  would  be 
bought  by  somebody  else)."  R.  Rabha,  however,  said:  "  It  is 
not  so,  and  our  Mishna,  which  makes  them  free,  treats  of  a  case 
where  the  heirs  have  already  consumed  the  article  after  the 
death  of  their  father."  But  from  the  latter  part  of  our  Mishna, 
which  states  that  "  if  there  was  a  responsibility,"  etc.,  it  must 
be  said  that  the  first  part  treats  of  the  robbed  article  still  in 
existence.  Said  Rabha:  "When  I  will  die,  R.  Oshiah  will 
come  to  thank  me,  for  I  always  try  the  Mishnayoths  (edited  by 
Rabh)  with  the  Boraithas  taught  by  him,  and  our  Mishna  also 
is  in  accordance  with  the  following  Boraitha  of  R.  Ashiah:  "  If 
one  has  robbed  and  used  the  article  for  his  family,  the  heirs  are 
free  from  payment.     If,  however,  the  article  remains,  they  have 

asi 


252  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

to  return  it;  if  the  article  is  no  more  in  existence—/.^.,  they 
have  consumed  it— they  are  free,  unless  their  father  left  them 
real  estate,  in  which  case  they  must  pay  at  any  rate."  R.  Ada 
bar  Ahaba  taught:  The  difference  of  opinion  between  Rami 
bar  Hama  and  Rabha  in  connection  with  the  following  Boraitha: 
"  If  one  left  money  made  by  usury  for  his  heirs,  although  they 
know  of  the  case,  they  are  not  obliged  to  return  it."  And  the 
above  statement  of  Rami  bar  Hama  was  deduced  from  this. 
But  Rabha  is  of  the  opinion  that  nothing  is  to  be  inferred  from 
this  case,  which  is  entirely  different,  as  the  verse  reads:  "  Thou 
shalt  not  take  of  him  any  usury  or  increase."  The  Torah 
advises  him  he  shall  return  the  usury  to  him  for  the  purpose  he 
shall  stand  in  favor  with  him,  and  this  is  only  said  to  the  usurer 
himself,  but  not  to  his  children. 

One  who  taught  the  statement  of  Rami  bar  Hama  and  Rabha 
in  connection  with  this  Boraitha,  the  same  is  to  apply  further- 
more in  connection  with  our  Mishna,  and  according  to  them  who 
taught  it  in  connection  with  our  Mishna,  it  can  be  said  that  in 
the  case  mentioned  in  the  Boraitha  Rami  bar  Hama  agrees  with 
Rabha. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  If  one  robbed  an  edible  article  and  he 
used  it  for  his  children,  the  children  are  free  from  payment ;  if, 
however,  the  article  is  yet  in  existence  after  the  death  of  the 
robber,  and  the  children  are  grown  up,  they  must  pay;  but  if 
they  are  still  minors,  they  are  free;  and  even  when  they  are 
grown  up,  if  they  say :  '  We  know  the  accounts  of  our  father 
with  you,  and  he  owes  you  nothing,'  they  are  free."  (This 
Boraitha  was  corrected  so  by  Rabha.)  We  have  learned  in 
another  Boraitha:  "  The  children  are  free  only  when  the  robber 
used  it  for  his  family;  but  if  a  robbed  edible  article  is  in  exist- 
ence, his  heirs,  whether  grown  up  or  minors,  are  obliged  to 
return  it."  Rabha  said:  "  If  their  father  left  for  them  a  cow 
borrowed  for  labor,  they  may  use  her  for  the  time  she  was  bor- 
rowed; if  she  dies  even  by  an  accident  (and  not  while  laboring), 
they  are  free.  If  they  thought  that  she  was  the  property  of 
their  father,  and  they  slaughtered  and  consumed  her,  they  have 
to  pay  the  value  of  her  meat  in  low  prices.  If,  however,  their 
father  left  real  estate,  they  have  to  pay  anyhow." 

The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  [Lev.  v.  23]:  "  He  shall 
restore  the  robbed  article  which  he  has  robbed."*  Why  the 
repetition  "  which  he  has  robbed"  ?    To  teach  that  he  shall 

*  Leeser  translates  the  sense  of  it.     The  Talmud,  however,  takes  it  literally. 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  253 

restore  it  in  the  same  manner  it  was  robbed ;  and  from  this  the 
sages  said:  "When  he  has  robbed  an  edible  article,  and  he 
makes  use  of  it  for  his  family,  they  are  free  from  payment ;  but 
if  still  in  existence,  grown  up  as  well  as  minors  are  obliged  to 
return  it."  In  the  name  of  Symmachos,  however,  it  was  said 
that  if  the  heirs  were  still  minors,  they  are  free. 

The  brother-in-law  of  R.  Jeremiah  (who  was  a  minor)  shut 
the  door  in  the  face  of  R.  Jeremiah  (who  wanted  to  inherit  it 
for  himself).  When  the  case  came  before  R.  Abbin,  he  declared 
that  the  minor  has  a  right  to  do  so,  because  he  demands  his 
property.  Rejoined  R.  Jeremiah:  "  But  I  have  witnesses  that 
I  have  used  this  room  while  my  father-in-law  was  yet  alive,  as 
he  had  transferred  it  to  me."  Rejoined  R.  Abbin:  "  But  can, 
then,  the  testimony  of  witnesses  be  taken  in  the  absence  of  the 
other  party  (your  opponent  is  yet  a  minor)  ?"  And  R.  Jere- 
miah said  again:  "  But  have  we  not  learned  that  minors  as  well 
as  grown  up,  etc.,  must  return  ? "  And  he  rejoined  again :  "  Is 
not  Symmachos,  who  said  that  minors  are  free,  your  opponent  ?  " 
R.  Jeremiah  objected,  saying:  "Are  you  ignoring  the  opinion 
of  the  sages,  and  agree  with  Symmachos  only  for  the  purpose 
that  I  shall  lose  my  case  ? "  This  case  was  talked  about  by  the 
people  until  it  came  to  the  ears  of  R.  Abuhu,  who  said:  Did 
you  not  hear  what  R.  Joseph  bar  Hama  declared  in  the  name 
of  R.  Ashiah  :  "  If  a  minor  compelled  his  slaves  to  take  away 
a  field  from  another,  claiming  it  belongs  to  him,  we  must  not 
wait  until  he  will  be  of  age  to  sue  him,  but  immediately  the 
field  must  be  returned,  and  when  he  will  be  of  age  he  shall  then 
bring  evidence  "  ?  (Said  the  judge:)  "  What  comparison  is  this 
to  our  case  ?  There  the  minor  was  the  plaintiff  and  took  pos- 
session of  an  estate  against  the  law,  but  here  the  minor  is  the 
defendant,  and  he  is  in  the  right  possession  of  his  estate  which 
was  occupied  by  his  father." 

R.  Ashi  the  first  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Shabathai:  "  The 
testimony  of  witnesses  can  be  taken  even  in  the  absence  of  the 
parties."  R.  Johanan  (when  he  heard  this)  was  astonished, 
saying:  "  How  is  it  possible  to  accept  witnesses  not  in  the  pres- 
ence of  the  parties  ?"  R.  Jose  bar  Hanina,  however  (his  dis- 
ciple, who  was  a  judge),  had  accepted  this  theory  in  case  one  of 
the  parties  or  witnesses  was  sick,  or  the  witnesses  had  to  go  to 
the  sea-countries,  or  it  was  sent  by  the  court  after  him  and  he 
did  not  appear.  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel: 
"  Witnesses  may  be  accepted  even  not  in  the  presence  of  the 


254  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

parties."  Said  Mar  Ukba:  "  Samuel  explained  it  to  me  that 
this  is  in  case  issue  was  already  joined  for  the  hearing  of  the 
case,  and  he  was  sent  for  and  he  did  not  appear;  but  if  he  was 
only  summoned  by  the  court  and  his  case  was  not  yet  opened, 
he  may  say:  'I  will  go  to  the  Supreme  Court  (in  Jerusalem).' 
But  if  such  a  claim  be  listened  to  he  may  claim  it  even  when 
the  court  was  opened  for  his  case?  "  Said  Rabbina:  "  It  means 
when  an  order  from  the  Supreme  Court  was  already  issued  that 
this  case  should  be  decided  by  the  Supreme  Court." 

Rabh  said:  "  A  document  may  be  approved  even  not  in  the 
presence  of  the  party."  R.  Johanan,  however,  says:  "  It  must 
not."  Said  R.  Shesheth  to  R.  Jose  bar  Abuhu:  "  I  may  ex- 
plain to  you  the  reason  for  R.  Johanan's  statement  as  follows: 
It  is  written  [Ex.  xxi.] :  And  warniyig  has  been  given  to  his 
owner,  and  he  has  not  kept  him  in.  The  Scripture  means  that 
the  owner  of  the  ox  must  come  to  the  court  and  be  present 
when  his  ox  will  be  judged."  Rabha,  however,  says:  "The 
Halakha  prevails,  that  a  document  may  be  approved  even  in  the 
absence  of  the  party,  and  even  if  he  is  objecting,  but  if  he  asks 
to  suspend  the  case  for  a  certain  time,  that  he  should  be  able  to 
bring  evidence  against  the  document,  the  court  may  allow  it. 
If  he  appears  in  time,  then  it  is  good ;  if  not,  the  court  suspends 
it  for  the  three  next  sittings ;  and  if  he  does  not  appear,  the  court 
shall  give  him  ninety  days'  time  before  his  estate  shall  be  sold 
for  this  debt.  The  first  thirty  days  we  do  not  sell  his  estate,  to 
give  him  time  to  get  cash.  The  second  thirty  days  we  give  him 
time  to  sell  his  goods  himself,  and  the  third  thirty  days  also 
when  he  claims  that  he  has  a  buyer  for  his  estate,  but  the  buyer 
is  not  yet  ready  with  cash.  After  the  above  time  a  warrant  is 
to  be  given  to  the  plaintiff,  that  he  may  sell  the  estate  of  the 
defendant.  All  this  is  done  only  when  the  defendant  desires 
time,  but  if  he  says,  '  I  will  not  go  to  the  court  any  more,'  a 
warrant  is  given  immediately.  And  this  is  only  by  a  creditor, 
but  in  case  of  a  deposit,  a  warrant  is  issued  immediately,  but 
only  when  the  debtor  possesses  real  estate,  not  upon  per- 
sonal property;  and  the  reason  is,  if  the  creditor  would  have 
a  right  to  take  the  personal  property  immediately  under  his  con- 
trol, he  may  sell  it,  so  that  in  case  the  defendant  afterwards  will 
bring  evidence  that  the  document  was  of  no  value,  his  property 
could  not  be  returned  to  him  in  case  the  creditor  does  not  pos- 
sess real  estate;  but  if  he  does,  a  warrant  may  be  issued  even  in 
this  case."     (Says  the  Gemara:)  "In  practice  it  is  not  so;  a 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  255 

judgment  is  not  issued  on  personal  property,  even  when  the 
creditor  possesses  real  estate,  as  in  the  meantime  he  can  sell 
his  real  estate,  as  it  will  go  down  in  price." 

It  is  also  an  obligation  on  the  court  to  give  notice  to  the 
defendant  that  his  property  will  be  sold,  if  he  is  near  by ;  but 
not  if  he  is  far  away  and  there  are  no  relatives ;  but  if  there  are, 
or  there  is  a  caravan  by  whom  he  can  be  notified,  he  is  notified 
that  this  will  occur  after  twelve  months,  until  the  caravan  should 
make  its  tour  and  return.  As  Rabbina  did  in  case  of  Mar  Aha, 
where  he  postponed  the  selling  for  twelve  months,  the  time 
which  it  takes  for  the  caravan  to  tour  and  retour  from  the  coun- 
try of  Husia.  [Also  this  was  not  produced]  as  the  above  case 
is  different;  the  defendant  was  a  mighty  man,  and  if  the  warrant 
would  appear  before  him,  it  could  not  be  collected  from  him, 
and  therefore  he  was  only  notified  that  a  warrant  would  be 
issued'  (and  it  was  issued  in  such  a  moment  that  he  could  do 
nothing) ;  but  in  another  case  the  warrant  was  to  be  suspended 
only  until  a  messenger  had  time  to  return  with  the  answer  of 
the  defendant,  about  three  or  four  days. 

Rabbina  said:  "  A  messenger  of  the  court  should  be  trusted 
as  two  witnesses  in  case  of  putting  a  man  under  the  ban;  but  if 
he  testifies,  in  such  a  case  where  the  man  must  be  notified  that, 
if  he  will  not  follow  the  order,  he  will  be  put  under  the  ban,  he 
may  not  be  listened  to  unless  the  scribe  is  paid  for  issuing  it." 

Rabbina  said  again:  "  If  a  summons  was  sent  with  a  woman 
or  with  his  neighbor,  who  are  going  to  the  city  where  the 
defendant,  resides,  and  he  does  not  appear,  he  may  be  put 
under  the  ban  (as  generally  the  above  have  fulfilled  their  prom- 
ise to  bring  him  the  summons).  But  this  is  only  when  he  lives 
out  of  the  town ;  but  if  he  is  in  the  city,  he  is  not  to  be  put 
under  the  ban,  because  the  former,  through  whom  the  summons 
was  sent,  may  rely  upon  the  court  that  it  will  send  its  own  mes- 
senger, unless  he  was  summoned  by  the  messenger  of  the  court. " 

Rabha  said:  "  If  one  was  notified  that  he  will  be  put  under 
the  ban  if  he  will  not  appear  before  the  court,  this  writing  must 
not  be  destroyed  until  he  appears  (even  if  he  says  he  xvill  do  so), 
and  if  such  was  issued  for  not  obeying  the  order  of  the  court,  it 
shall  not  be  destroyed  until  he  follows  the  order."  [The  latter 
case  is  not  practised,  but  it  is  destroyed  as  soon  as  he  promises 
to  follow  the  order.] 

R.  Hisda  says:  "  A  note  concerning  putting  under  ban  is  to 
be  used  only  when  lie  was  summoned  for  the  three  days  when 


256  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  court  was  sitting  (Monday,  Thursday,  and  Monday  again), 
and  only  the  following  Thursday  to  be  issued." 

R.  Asi  happened  to  be  in  the  court  of  R.  Kahana,  and  saw 
that  a  woman  was  summoned  in  the  afternoon,  and  on  the  mor- 
row, when  she  did  not  appear,  he  issued  a  notification  that  she 
would  be  put  under  the  ban.  Said  the  former  to  him:  "  Does 
not  the  master  hold  the  decision  of  R.  Hisda  stated  above  ?" 
And  he  answered:  "  This  was  said  only  when  the  man  is  not  in 
the  city,  but  for  this  woman,  who  is  sure  to  be  in  the  city  and 
summoned,  it  is  a  contempt  of  the  court  and  must  be  punished." 
R.  Jehudah  said:  "  One  must  not  be  summoned  by  the  court 
on  the  eve  of  a  Sabbath  or  a  festival  (or  when  he  is  a  student), 
not  in  the  days  of  the  months  Nison  and  Tishri  (as  then  the 
college  examination  took  place),  but  a  summons  may  be  issued 
in  these  days  to  appear  after  the  above  months.  On  the  eves 
of  Sabbaths  and  festivals,  however,  even  to  appear  after  Sab- 
bath or  festival  is  not  to  be  issued,  because  he  is  then  busy  to 
prepare  for  the  following  day  and  the  summons  may  escape 
his  mind."  R.  Na'hman  said:  "One  must  not  be  summoned 
verbally  to  appear  on  Monday,  on  the  Sabbath  before  it  when 
he  comes  to  hear  the  lecture,  and  also  on  the  day  when  he 
comes  to  hear  the  lecture  of  the  coming  festival.  (It  was 
usually  lectured  thirty  days  before  each  festival.)  He  shall 
appear  on  some  day  afterwards  (for  fear  they  will  restrain  from 
coming  to  the  lecture).  When  people  used  to  come  to  R. 
Na'hman  in  the  days  mentioned  above  with  claims  against  some 
of  the  assembled  people,  he  used  to  say  to  them:  "  Did  I 
assemble  them  for  your  benefit?"  [Said  the  Gemara:  "  Now 
when  the  time  is  changed  and  swindle  is  used,  no  attention  may 
be  given  to  all  the  terms  said  above."] 

' '  If,  however,  it  was  an  article  of  responsibility, ' '  etc.  Rabbi 
taught  his  son  Simeon:  "  Not  only  real  estate,  but  even  an  ani- 
mal which  they  use  for  labor,  they  are  obliged  to  return  for  the 
honor  of  their  father."  R.  Kahana  questioned  Rabh:  "  How  is 
it  with  a  bed  or  a  table  which  they  are  using  ? ' '  And  he  answered 
[Prov.  ix.  9]  :  "  Give  to  the  wise  (instruction)  and  he  will  become 
yet  wiser. ' '     (It  means  the  same  is  the  case  with  all  other  things.) 

MISHNA  //.  :  Money  must  not  be  changed  from  the  treas- 
ury of  duties,  and  not  from  the  treasury  of  the  treasurers  for 
charity,  and  also  charity  must  not  be  taken  from  them ;  it  may, 
however,  be  done  with  the  private  money  of  the  above  treas- 
urers, or  when  it  is  in  market  charity  may  be  accepted. 


TRACT   BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  257 

GEMARA:  A  Boraitha,  an  addition  to  the  above  statement, 
teaches:  "  He  may  take  change  from  a  dinar  if  he  has  to  pay 
a  part  of  it."  "Treasury  of  duties."  Why  not?  Did  not 
Samuel  say:  "  The  law  of  the  government  must  be  respected  as 
the  law  of  the  Torah. ' '  Hence  the  duties  must  not  be  considered 
robbery  ?  Said  R.  Hanina  bar  Kahana  in  the  name  of  Samuel: 
"  The  Mishna  treats  of  a  contractor  who  paid  the  government 
the  duties  of  the  inhabitants,  and  he  collects  from  them  as  much 
as  he  desires,  and  in  such  a  case  it  is  considered  robbery."  The 
disciples  of  R.  Janai  say:  "  The  Mishna  treats  of  a  duty  not 
established  by  the  government  (but  by  some  mighty  people  of 
the  city). ' '  According  to  others,  the  above  statements  of  Samuel 
and  R.  Janai  were  delivered  in  connection  with  the  following 
Boraitha:  "  Vows  may  be  made  before  murderers  or  contractors 
of  duty  concerning  the  heave-offering  or  concerning  the  royal 
treasure  {i.e.^  if  one  vows  it  shall  be  forbidden  to  consume  any 
fruits,  if  these  fruits  do  not  belong  to  one  of  the  above-men- 
tioned)." And  when  it  was  questioned:  "  Why  the  contractor 
of  duty  is  counted  among  murderers,"  etc.,  the  above  explana- 
tions of  Samuel  and  Janai  were  given.  R.  Simeon  said:  "  R. 
Aqiba  when  he  came  from  Zefiru  lectured  as  follows:  "  Whence 
do  we  deduce  that  the  robbery  of  a  heathen  is  prohibited  ?  "  It 
is  written  [Lev.  xv.  48]:  "  After  he  has  sold  himself,  shall  he 
have  the  right  of  redemption  "  (the  verse  treats  when  a  Jew  has 
sold  himself  for  a  slave  to  a  heathen),  which  means  that  even 
when  the  Jewish  court  has  the  might  to  get  him  free  without 
money,  they  must  not  do  so  unless  the  heathen  is  paid  the  full 
amount,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  50]  :  "  And  he  shall  reckon 
^vith  him  that  bought  him,"  etc. 

R.  Ashi  happened  to  be  on  the  road  and  saw  a  vineyard  in 
which  some  grapes  were  ripe,  and  he  said  to  his  servant:  "  Go 
and  see,  if  it  belongs  to  a  heathen,  bring  me  some;  and  if  it 
belongs  to  a  Jew,  do  not."  The  owner  of  this  vineyard,  who 
was  a  heathen,  heard  this,  and  questioned  him :  "  Are  the  goods 
of  a  heathen  allowed  to  be  robbed  ?"  And  he  answered:  "  I 
meant,  if  the  owner  is  a  heathen,  he  will  take  money  for  it,  but 
a  Jew  would  not  take  money  from  me;  and  I  do  not  want  to 
have  it  for  nothing."  The  text  states:  Samuel  said:  "The 
law  of  the  government  is  to  be  respected,"  etc. 

Said  Rabha :  ' '  This  is  proved  by  the  fact  that  we  pass  the 
bridges  which  the  government  made,  although  they  take  beams 
of  the  estate  belonging  to  private  estates."     Said  Abayi  to  him : 


258  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  Perhaps  we  do  so  because  the  owners  of  the  beams  in  ques- 
tion have  renounced  their  hope  to  regain  it. ' '  And  he  answered  : 
"  If  the  law  of  the  government  should  not  be  respected  as  the 
law  of  the  Torah,  why  should  the  owners  of  the  beams  renounce 
their  hope  ?  The  officers  of  the  government  do  not  usually  do 
as  they  are  ordered.  The  order  is,  they  shall  cut  off  trees  of 
all  Xho.  pagus  {e.g.,  one  owner  shall  not  suffer  too  much  and  the 
other  nothing),  and  the  officers  cut  off  from  one  pagu  which  is 
more  prehensible  to  them.  All  beams  they  need,  and  never- 
theless we  pass  the  bridges  which  were  made  of  such  beams; 
and  this  is  because  the  officers  of  the  government  are  considered 
as  the  government  itself,  which  needs  not  to  take  the  trouble 
searching  any  other  pagus,  where  the  beams  in  question  are  to 
be  found,  and  it  is  only  the  fault  of  the  citizens,  who  have  not 
prepared  the  necessary  material  for  the  bridges  from  X.h.Q  pagus 
where  such  material  can  be  obtained,  and  take  money  for  it 
from  the  government." 

Rabha  said  again:  "  If  there  were  four  partners  to  a  barn, 
three  of  them  took  out  the  grain  of  it,  and  when  the  collector  of 
duties  came  he  found  only  the  share  of  the  fourth  partner.  He 
may  take  from  it  for  all  the  four  partners,  and  it  is  not  consid- 
ered robbery,  even  if  the  collector  was  a  contractor  of  the  gov- 
ernment. The  case,  however,  is  when  they  were  partners ;  but 
if  some  of  them  were  only  gardeners,  who  took  for  their  trouble 
a  share  of  the  grain,  the  collector  has  not  to  take  the  duties  for 
them  who  are  absent,  because  the  gardeners  only  took  what 
belonged  to  themselves." 

The  same  said  again:  "  A  contractor  of  the  government  has 
the  right  to  pledge  a  fellow-citizen  for  the  duty  of  another  citi- 
zen of  the  same  city  (who  stands  with  him  in  business  connec- 
tions), as  so  the  law  of  the  government  is  in  case  it  is  a  duty 
from  the  fruits  of  the  land  or  from  this  year;  if,  however,  it  is 
from  the  last  year,  for  which  the  contractor  has  paid  already  to 
the  government,  he  must  not  do  so."  The  same  said  again: 
"  Heathens  who  live  in  the  limit  of  a  Techum*  of  the  city,  who 
possess  cattle  and  they  are  hired  to  dung  the  fields,  one  may 
not  buy  an  animal  from  them,  for  fear  it  may  be  Jewish  cattle, 
as  they  usually  feed  the  Jewish  cattle  together;  but  if  they  live 
out  of  the  limit  of  the  Techum,  it  is  allowed."  Said  Rabbina: 
"  If  some  Jews  of  the  city  are  claiming  that  their  cattle  are 
among  the  cattle  of  the  heathens,  even  out  of  the  limit,  is  also 

*  Sabbath  limit.     See  Erubin,  page  lOO. 


TRACT    BABA   KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  259 

prohibited."  Rabha,  according  to  others  R.  Huna,  publicly 
announced:  "  It  shall  be  known  to  all  who  are  going  down  to 
Babylon  or  going  up  to  Palestine  that  an  Israelite  who  is  testi- 
fying for  the  sake  of  a  heathen,  without  being  invited  as  a  wit- 
ness, when  the  defendant  is  an  Israelite  he  may  be  put  under 
the  ban.  Why  so  ?  Because  the  heathen  collects  money  by 
the  testimony  of  one  witness  (and  the  Scripture  requires  two 
witnesses).  This  is  only  in  case  when  he  is  the  only  witness ; 
but  if  there  are  two,  they  must  testify  even  when  they  are  not 
called  up ;  and  this  is  also  only  when  the  case  is  brought  up  in  a 
court  of  violence,  but  in  the  court  of  a  Dower  (a  Persian  prince) 
they  may  testify,  as  they  also  in  such  a  case  order  only  an 
oath."  Said  R.  Ashi:  "  When  I  was  in  the  court  of  R.  Ka- 
hana*  we  were  questioned  :  "  A  respectable  man  upon  whom  the 
above  court  would  rely,  as  upon  the  testimony  of  two,  and  he 
is  the  only  witness,  should  he  not  testify,  because  the  money 
would  be  collected  upon  his  testimony,  or  because  he  is  a  re- 
spectable man  it  would  be  against  his  conscience  if  he  does  so  ? 
This  question  remained  unanswered. 

MISHNA  ///. :  If  the  contractors  took  away  his  ass,  (and 
after  complaining)  they  returned  him  instead  of  his  another  one, 
or  he  was  robbed  of  a  garment,  and  another  one  was  returned  to 
him  instead  by  the  robbers,  he  may  take  it,  as  usually  in  such 
cases  the  owners  renounced  the  hope  of  regaining  it.  If  one 
saved  an  estate  from  the  stream  or  from  robbers,  if  the  owners 
of  it  have  renounced  the  hope,  he  may  keep  it.  The  same  is 
the  case  also  with  a  swarm  of  bees.  R.  Johanan  ben  Broka, 
however,  says:  "A  woman  or  a  minor  is  trusted  when  they 
show  the  place  whence  this  swarm  was  coming.  One  may  also 
run  through  the  field  of  his  neighbor  to  save  the  above;  if,  how- 
ever, he  causes  damage,  he  must  pay ;  but  one  has  no  right  to 
cut  up  a  branch  of  a  tree,  although  he  pays  for  it."  R.  Ishmael 
his  son,  however,  allows  even  this. 

GEMARA:  A  Boraitha,  however,  states  (that  if  he  takes 
a  stranger's  ass  from  the  contractor,  and  he  is  afraid  it  may  be 
considered  robbery,  he  has  to  return  it  to  the  first  owner  and 
not  to  the  contractor,  although  the  title  is  acquired  as  soon  as 
the  hope  of  regaining  is  renounced ;  here  with  a  contractor  it  is 
different  (and  the  title  does  not  pass  to  the  contractor). 

Said  R.  Assi:  "  The  statement  of  the  Mishna  applied  only 
when  the  robber  was  a  heathen,  but  not  if  he  were  an  Israelite, 
*  The  text  reads  Huna,  but  by  the  correction  of  Asher  it  is  Kahana. 
4 


26o  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

because  he  thinks  of  summoning  him  to  the  court."  R.  Joseph 
opposed:  "  It  seems  to  be,  on  the  contrary,  that  as  the  heathen 
courts  are  very  powerful,  they  do  not  renounce  their  hope 
because  they  think  of  summoning  him."  But  if  the  robber 
were  an  Israelite,  whose  courts  are  not  so  powerful,  he  usually 
renounces  hope.  Therefore  if  this  statement  was  made  by  R. 
Assi,  it  was  on  the  latter  part  of  the  Mishna :  "  If  they  renounced 
their  hope,  it  is  his."  Upon  this  it  was  that  R.  Assi  said: 
"  This  applies  only  to  a  heathen.  But  if  the  robber  were  an 
Israelite  the  same  is  the  case  even  if  it  were  not  certain  that 
they  had  renounced  their  hope." 

There  is  a  Mishna  [Kelim,  xxvi.  8]  about  skins  when  they 
were  stolen  or  robbed.  In  the  first  case  the  intention  of  the 
thief  is  not  to  be  considered,  because  in  such  a  case  usually  the 
owners  do  not  renounce  their  hope;  and  R.  Simeon  is  of  the 
opinion  that  in  case  of  a  theft  the  owners  do  renounce  their 
hope,  but  not  in  the  case  of  a  robbery ;  and  Ula  said  that  they 
differ  when  there  is  a  supposition  only,  but  if  it  is  certain  that 
the  owners  have  renounced,  all  agree  that  title  is  acquired. 

Rabba,  however,  says  that  they  differ  even  when  it  is  certain. 
Said  Abayi  to  Rabba:  "  You  may  not  differ  with  Ula  in  this 
case,  because  the  quoted  Mishna  which  states  '  that  usually  the 
owners  do  not  renounce  their  hope,  of  which  it  is  to  be  inferred 
that  only  when  it  is  supposed  so,  but  if  it  is  certain  that  they 
have  renounced  their  hope,  title  is  acquired.'  "  And  he  an- 
swered: "  We  read  in  the  above  quoted  Mishna  not  as  stated, 
but  '  because  the  renunciation  of  hope  is  of  no  avail.'  "  There 
is  an  objection  from  our  Mishna  if  the  contractor  took  his  ass, 
etc.,  which  states  he  may  keep  it  because  usually  the  owners 
renounce  their  hope.  Now,  according  to  whom  should  be  our 
Mishna?  If  in  accordance  with  the  opponents  of  R.  Simeon, 
then  the  robbery  mentioned  in  the  quoted  Mishna  would  be  a 
difficulty;  and  if  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon,  the  theft  men- 
tioned there  would  be  a  difficulty,  too.  Still  it  would  be  correct 
in  accordance  with  Ula's  theory,  who  says  that  when  it  is  cer- 
tain all  agree,  etc.,  then  our  Mishna  could  be  explained  that 
it  means  when  it  was  certain ;  but  according  to  Rabha's  theory, 
in  accordance  with  whom  is  our  Mishna?  Our  Mishna  can  be 
explained  that  it  treats  when  the  robber  was  armed,  and  in 
accordance  with  R.  Simeon.  But  is  this  not  the  same  robbery 
as  by  a  contractor  ?  The  Mishna  mentions  two  cases  of  rob- 
bery, one  who  is  protected  by  the  government,  and  one  who  is 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  261 

persecuted  by  the  government.  Come  and  hear:  "A  thief, 
a  robber,  and  an  oppressor  (who  takes  an  article  and  pays  for  it 
against  the  will  of  the  owner),  if  they  have  consecrated  the  arti- 
cle in  question,  or  if  they  have  separated  heave-offering  from 
the  robbed  grain,  it  remains  so.  Now,  according  to  whom  would 
be  this  Boraitha:  "  If  with  the  rabbis,  robbery  would  be  a  dififi- 
culty,"  etc?  This  Boraitha  is  in  accordance  with  Rabbai,  who 
says  elsewhere  that  there  is  no  difTerence  between  a  thief  and 
a  robber,  and  it  is  explained  further  on  that  Rabbai  means  the 
kind  of  a  robber  mentioned  by  R.  Simeon,  who  acquires  title, 
and  not  of  the  robbers  who  do  not.  "  A  swarm  of  bees,"  etc. 
What  means  the  Mishna  with  the  expression  "  also"?  It  means 
to  say  that  although  a  swarm  of  bees  is  only  an  enactment  of 
the  rabbis,  that  one  can  claim  he  is  the  owner  of  it,  to  prevent 
quarrels,  and  one  may  say  that  while  it  belongs  to  him  only  rab- 
binically,  he  renounces  his  hope  immediately;  it  comes  to  teach 
us  that  the  same  is  the  case  here  also. 

"  Said  R.  Johanan  ben  Broka,"  etc.  Are,  then,  a  woman 
and  a  minor  qualified  to  be  witnesses  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in 
the  name  of  Samuel:  "  This  case  was  when  they  ran  after  it, 
and  the  two  in  question  had  showed  him  the  place  whence  the 
swarm  of  bees  was  coming,  but  they  were  not  called  as  wit- 
nesses." R.  Ashi,  however,  said:  "One  who  relates  a  thing 
without  intention  of  testifying  has  a  value  only  in  case  of  a 
widow,  who  needs  evidence  that  her  husband  is  dead."  Said 
Rabbina  to  him:  "Is  it  not  just  mentioned  that  such  a  rela- 
tion is  valued  also  in  the  case  mentioned  above?"  And  he 
answered:  "  A  swarm  of  bees  is  different,  as  the  owner  of  it  is 
only  made  rabbin ically."  [And  in  case  where  it  is  biblically,  is 
it  not  valid  ?]  Did  not  R.  Jehudah  say  in  the  name  of  Samuel: 
"  It  happened  with  a  man  who  was  talking  without  any  inten- 
tion as  follows :  I  recollect  when  I  was  a  child,  upon  the  shoul- 
ders of  my  father  I  was  taken  from  the  school,  and  they  dressed 
me  and  put  me  in  a  legal  bath,  so  that  I  should  be  able  to  par- 
take of  heave-offering  at  the  night  meal."  And  R.  Hanina 
added  this  tale:  "  My  comrades  reported  themselves  from  me 
and  called  me  Johanan  the  eater  of  cakes."  And  Rabbi  estab- 
lished him  as  a  priest  for  this  tale.  In  the  time  of  Rabbi  (after 
the  destruction  of  the  temple)  heave-offering  was  only  rabbini- 
cal. And  still  in  a  biblical  case  such  is  not  valid  ?  Did  not  R. 
Dimi  say  in  the  name  of  R.  Hana  or  Aha  of  Carthagena:  "  It 
happened  in  the  court  of  R.  Joshua  ben  Levi,  according  to 


262  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

others  in  the  court  of  Rabbi,  with  a  child  who  was  telling:  '  It 
happened  that  my  mother  and  I  were  prisoners  among  the 
heathens,  and  I  did  not  turn  away  my  eyes  from  my  mother. 
When  I  was  going  to  draw  water,  or  to  gather  some  wood,  I  did 
not  stop  thinking  of  her,'  and  upon  this  telling  Rabbi  married 
her  to  a  priest  (to  whom  it  is  prohibited  to  marry  a  suspicious 
woman).  In  the  case  of  a  woman  prisoner  they  dealt  leni- 
ently." 

"  He  shall  not  cut  up  a  branch,''  etc.  We  have  learned  in 
a  Boraitha  R.  Ishmael  ben  R.  Johanan  ben  Broka  said:  "  It 
was  decided  by  the  court  that  one  may  descend  in  his  neighbor's 
field,  or  cut  up  a  branch  of  his  neighbor's  tree,  for  the  purpose 
to  save  his  or  somebody  else's  swarm  of  bees,  and  the  value  of 
the  branch  shall  be  paid  from  the  swarm  of  bees ;  and  there  was 
also  another  decision  of  the  court,  that  if  for  the  purpose  of 
saving  one's  honey  he  must  spill  out  his  own  wine,  he  must  do 
so,  and  the  value  of  his  wine  he  shall  collect  from  the  honey  he 
has  saved ;  and  the  same  is  the  case  when  he  has  wood  on  his 
wagon  and  he  sees  that  one's  flax  is  in  danger,  he  must  throw 
off  his  wood  to  place  the  flax  instead,  and  the  value  of  the  wood 
he  may  collect  from  the  flax,  because  under  this  condition 
Joshua  to  our  ancestors  inherited  the  land." 

MISHNA  IV. :  If  one  recognizes  his  utensils  or  hooks  by 
another,  and  it  was  announced  that  such  things  were  stolen,  the 
defendant  must  swear  how  much  he  has  paid  and  collect  it  by 
returning  the  articles.  If,  however,  it  was  not  announced  that 
such  articles  were  stolen,  he  is  not  trusted  to  say  so,  as  it  can 
happen  that  he  himself  sold  it,  and  the  buyer  sold  it  again  to 
the  defendant. 

GEMARA:  And  even  when  it  was  announced  that  there 
was  a  theft,  what  is  it  ?  There  may  be  still  a  suspicion  that  he 
sold  it  and  then  he  announced  it  was  stolen.  Said  R.  Jehudah 
in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  The  case  was  that  in  the  same  night, 
when  the  theft  happened,  visitors  were  coming  to  him  and 
found  him  crying  that  his  articles  were  stolen.  But  still  (if  he 
is  a  suspicious  man)  it  can  be  said  that  seeing  that  men  are  com- 
ing to  him,  he  began  to  claim  of  the  recent  theft."  R.  Kohana 
completed  the  above  statement  of  Rabh,  that  the  case  was  that 
men  who  were  staying  over  night  in  his  house,  it  was  found 
afterwards  they  were  robbers,  and  they  took  with  them  pack- 
ages with  utensils,  and  it  was  murmured  that  his  articles  were 
stolen.     Said  Rabba:  "  All  what  is  said  above  is  to  be  feared  in 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  263 

case  the  plaintiff  was  known  that  he  used  to  sell  his  utensils, 
but  not  otherwise.  But  cannot  it  happen  that  even  when  it 
was  not  his  custom  to  sell  out  when  he  was  in  need,  he  never- 
theless did  sell  all  his  articles?"  Said  R.  Ashi:  "Therefore 
the  Mishna  states  that  it  was  known  in  the  city  that  his  utensils 
were  stolen." 

It  was  taught:  "  If  a  thief  has  sold  out  the  stolen  articles 
and  after  it  was  recognized  that  he  is  the  thief,  Rabh  in  the 
name  of  R.  Hyya  said  that  the  plaintiff  may  deal  with  the  thief 
only."  And  R.  Johanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Janai  said  that  he 
may  deal  with  the  buyer  only  {i.e.,  he  can  take  the  stolen  things 
without  any  payment).  Said  R.  Jose:  "They  do  not  differ: 
the  one  who  says  that  he  has  to  do  with  the  buyer  means,  in 
case  he  bought  it  before  the  owner  of  the  article  has  renounced 
his  hope  of  regaining  it,  and  the  one  who  says  that  he  has  to  do 
with  the  thief  only,  means  that  the  sale  was  after  the  hope  was 
renounced,  and  both  agree  with  the  theory  of  R.  Hisda  "  {supra, 
p.  251).  Abayi,  however,  said:  "They  do  differ,  as  we  find 
elsewhere  concerning  the  gifts  of  cattle  belonging  to  the  priest, 
which  must  be  considered  always  that  the  hope  of  regaining  is 
not  renounced,  and  they  differ  there  also."  But  what  is  the 
point  of  their  difference  ?  They  differ  about  the  statement  of 
R.  Hisda  just  quoted.  R.  Zebid,  however,  said:  "The  point 
of  their  difference  is  this:  In  case  the  hope  of  regaining  was 
renounced  when  it  was  already  in  the  hand  of  the  buyer,  one 
holds  that  when  the  hope  was  renounced  after  the  control  was 
changed  it  does  not  give  title,  and  the  other  one  holds  that  it  is 
no  difference."  R.  Papa  says:  "All  agree  that  the  articles 
must  be  returned  to  the  owner,  and  they  also  agree  with  R. 
Hisda,  that  the  plaintiff  may  summon  him  who  is  more  conve- 
nient for  him,  and  the  point  of  their  difference  is,  if  the  enact- 
ment which  is  made  for  the  benefit  of  one  who  buys  a  thing 
publicly  in  the  market,  without  knowing  that  it  is  a  stolen  arti- 
cle, shall  come  to  his  money  if  the  article  is  found  to  be  a  stolen 
one.  According  to  Rabh  this  enactment  does  not  apply  here, 
and  the  buyer  must  look  for  his  money  from  the  thief;  and  his 
above  statement,  he  has  to  do  with  the  thief,  means  the  buyer  and 
not  the  owner.  And  R.  Johanan  holds  the  above  enactment 
applies  here,  and  he  may  look  for  his  money  from  the  owner. 
Is  Rabh,  then,  of  the  opinion  that  this  enactment  does  not 
apply  here  ?  Did  not  R.  Huna,  who  was  the  disciple  of  Rabh, 
say   to    the  plaintiff   who  claimed  the  article  from    the   buyer 


264  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

who  bought  it  from  Hanan  the  bad,  who  stole  it,  Go  and 
redeem  it  ?  With  Hanan  the  bad  it  is  different ;  as  he  possessed 
nothing,  it  is  considered  as  if  the  thief  would  not  be  recognized 
at  all" 

Rabba  said:  "  If  the  thief  was  a  notorious  one,  the  above 
enactment  does  not  apply."  But  was  not  the  above  Hanan  the 
bad  a  known  one,  and  nevertheless  the  same  enactment  was 
enforced  ?  He  was  known  for  a  bad  one,  but  not  for  a  thief. 
It  was  taught :  "  If  a  thief  has  paid  his  debt  with  a  stolen  article 
the  above  enactment  does  not  apply,  because  the  creditor  did 
not  give  him  the  money  with  the  intention  of  collecting  it  from 
such  articles.  When,  however,  he  lends  upon  this  article  to  the 
half  of  its  value,  the  above  enactment  may  apply;  when,  how- 
ever, he  lent  the  full  value,  Amemar  said:  "  The  enactment  in 
question  does  not  apply."  Mar  Zutra  said:  "  It  does."  If  he 
has  sold  it  for  the  full  value,  the  enactment  applies ;  if  for  half 
the  value,  R.  Shesheth  maintains:  "  It  does  not";  and  Rabha 
maintains:  "It  applies."  And  the  Halakha  prevails,  that  in 
all  cases  the  same  enactment  is  to  be  practised,  except  when 
the  thief  pays  his  debt  with  it.  One  man  lent  four  zuz  from 
Abimi  bar  Nazi,  the  father-in-law  of  Rabbina ;  afterwards  he  stole 
a  garment  and  brought  it  to  his  creditor,  and  he  lent  him  four 
more  zuz;  finally  it  was  recognized  that  the  garment  was  stolen, 
and  Abimi  came  to  ask  the  law  of  Rabbina,  and  he  said:  "  The 
first  four  zuz  he  cannot  collect,  as  you  have  collected  it  already 
from  the  stolen  garment  (for  which  no  enactment  is  made). 
The  latter  four  zuz,  however,  you  may  collect,  and  return  the 
garment."  R.  Kahen  opposed:  "Why  shall  we  not  assume 
that  the  first  four  zuz  he  had  collected  from  the  garment,  which 
are  not  to  be  returned,  and  the  last  four  zuz  he  (Abimi)  trusted 
the  thief  without  any  pledge  as  he  did  before  ? "  The  case  was 
not  decided  until  it  came  before  R.  Abuhu,  and  he  decided  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Kahen.  One  of  the 
city  Narsha  stole  a  book  and  sold  it  to  a  citizen  of  Pepunian  for 
eighty  zuz;  the  latter  sold  it  to  a  citizen  of  Mehuza  for  a  hun- 
dred and  twenty  zuz.  Said  Abayi:  "  The  owner  of  the  book 
shall  pay  eighty  zuz  to  the  Mehuzan  man  and  shall  take  his 
book,  and  the  forty  remainder  the  Mehuzan  man  shall  collect  of 
the  Pepunian."  Rabha  opposed:  "When  the  enactment  was 
made,  even  when  he  bought  from  the  thief  himself,  shall  it  not 
apply  to  him  who  bought  it  from  the  buyer  ? "  Therefore  he 
decided  that  the  owner  shall  pay  to  the  Mehuzan  one  hundred 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  265 

and  twenty,  and  he  shall  take  his  book,  and  then  he  shall  col- 
lect the  eighty  from  the  Narshian  and  forty  from  the  Pepunian. 

MISHNA  V.  :  If  one  has  emptied  his  barrel  which  was  filled 
with  wine,  and  saved  in  it  the  honey  of  his  neighbor's  broken 
barrel,  he  receives  only  the  value  of  his  barrel  and  for  the  labor 
he  has  done;  if,  however,  he  told  the  man  of  the  honey,  "  I 
will  save  yours  in  case  you  will  pay  me  for  my  wine,"  he  must 
do  so.  The  same  is  the  case  when  a  stream  has  overflowed  two 
asses,  one  of  one  hundred  and  one  of  two  hundred,  and  the 
owner  of  the  one  hundred  saved  the  two  hundred  one,  he  has  to 
be  paid  for  his  trouble  only,  unless  he  has  made  this  condition 
with  his  neighbor  before  saving. 

GEM ARA :  But  why  so  ?  Let  him  (the  man  of  the  wine) 
say:  "  Was  not  your  honey  at  the  time  I  saved  it  ownerless  ? 
If  I  had  not  saved  it,  it  all  would  be  lost,  consequently  I  may 
take  at  least  for  my  wine."  The  case  was  when  the  owner  of 
the  honey  could  save  it  only  with  great  trouble. 

"  If,  however,  he  told,'"  etc.  But  cannot  the  man  of  honey 
say,  I  was  only  jesting  ?  Is  not  the  case  similar  to  the  case  of 
the  following  Boraitha:  "  If  one  runs  away  from  prison  and  he 
says  to  the  boatman,  *  I  will  give  you  a  dinar  if  you  will  pass 
me,'  he  shall  pay  him  only  what  is  due  to  him  "  ;  hence  he  can 
say,  what  I  said  a  dinar  was  only  jesting,  why  not  the  same  in 
our  case  ?  Our  case  is  to  be  compared  with  the  later  part  of  the 
same  Boraitha;  namely,  "  If,  however,  he  says:  Here  is  a  dinar, 
take  it  and  pass  me,  he  may  keep  the  whole  dinar  for  his  job  " 
(and  so  in  our  case  when  he  gives  him  the  honey  for  the  purpose 
of  saving  it,  it  is  considered  as  if  he  had  paid  him  in  advance). 
But  what  is  the  reason  for  this  statement  ?  Said  Rami  bar 
Hama:  "  The  case  is  when  the  man  of  the  boat  has  caught  fish 
at  the  same  time  he  was  waiting  for  passengers,  and  he  may 
claim  that  he  could  make  the  same  money  catching  fish." 

"  With  a  stream,''  etc.  And  both  cases  were  necessary  to 
teach ;  namely,  if  the  first  only  would  be  stated,  one  may  say, 
because  it  was  so  spoken  of,  that  he  shall  lose  his  own  wine  for 
the  purpose  of  saving  the  other's  honey.  But  in  the  other  case, 
which  was  accidental,  it  is  not  so ;  and  if  the  latter  only  would 
be  stated,  one  may  say  because  it  was  an  accident  he  gets  only 
for  his  trouble  when  it  was  not  arranged  otherwise ;  but  in  the 
first  case,  when  he  has  destroyed  his  property  for  the  benefit  of 
the  other  he  must  be  paid,  even  when  it  was  not  spoken  of; 
therefore  both  are  stated.     R.  Kahana  questioned  Rabh:  "  If 


266  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  condition  was  made,  he  shall  save  the  two  hundred  one, 
and  for  his  one  hundred  ass,  which  would  be  lost,  he  shall  be 
paid ;  and  he  descended  and  did  so,  and  in  the  meantime  it  hap- 
pened that  his  own  ass  was  saved  by  itself,  what  is  the  law  ?" 
And  Rabh  answered:  "  The  agreement  shall  be  fulfilled  never- 
theless, and  the  saving  of  his  ass  is  heavenly  favor.  As  it  hap- 
pened with  R.  Safra,  who  was  going  with  a  caravan  and  a  lion 
had  followed  them,  and  every  night  the  caravan  used  to  throw 
an  ass  for  the  lion;  when  the  time  arrived  that  R.  Safra  should 
throw  his  ass  he  did  so,  but  the  lion  did  not  touch  it,  and  on 
the  morrow  he  took  it  back  and  acquired  title  of  it."  R.  Aha 
of  Difti  questioned  Rabbina:  "  Why  was  it  necessary  for  R. 
Safra  to  acquire  title  to  it  ?  It  is  true  he  renounced  his  owner- 
ship of  it,  but  it  was  done  only  for  the  sake  of  the  lion,  but  not 
for  the  sake  of  others."  R.  Safra  did  so  to  prevent  murmur 
of  those  who  are  not  thoroughly  acquainted  with  the  law. 

Rabh  questioned  Rabbi:  "  What  is  the  law  when  upon  the 
above  condition  he  descended  to  save  the  ass,  but  did  not  suc- 
ceed?" And  he  answered:  "  Is  this  a  question?  Certainly 
his  trouble  only  is  to  be  paid."  Rabh  objected  from  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha:  "  If  one  was  hired  to  deliver  some  medicine 
to  a  sick  one,  and  he  finds  him  dead  or  cured,  the  messenger 
gets  his  full  payment?"  And  Rabbi  answered:  "  What  com- 
parison is  this  ?  There  the  messenger  has  fulfilled  his  mission, 
but  here  he  did  not." 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  A  caravan  in  the  desert  which  was  in 
danger  of  being  destroyed  by  robbers,  and  they  paid  for  their 
redemption,  the  sum  must  not  be  collected  equally  from  each 
person,  but  proportionately  to  the  amount  each  of  them  pos- 
sessed. If,  however,  they  have  hired  a  guide,  each  of  them 
should  pay  his  share  equally.  At  any  rate,  it  must  be  done 
according  to  the  custom  of  the  caravan.  The  drivers  are  allowed 
to  make  a  condition  with  the  proprietors,  that  in  case  an  ass  will 
be  lost,  they  shall  furnish  them  another  ass.  If,  however,  the 
ass  was  lost  by  wilful  negligence,  they  are  free.  But  if  he  says: 
"  Give  me  the  money  for  the  lost  one  and  I  will  buy  me  another 
one  myself,"  he  is  not  to  be  listened  to  (because  he  may  not 
buy,  and  will  neglect  to  take  care  of  the  other  asses).  Is  this 
not  self-evident  ?  The  case  is  even  so  when  he  has  another  ass. 
Lest  one  say  he  will  not  neglect  to  take  care  of  the  asses  of  the 
caravan,  as  his  own  ass  is  among  them;  he  comes  to  teach  us 
that  the  taking  care  of  one  is  not  equal  to  that  of  two. 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  267 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  a  ship  upon  the  open  sea,  when  it 
was  necessary  to  decrease  the  weight,  the  weight  of  the  loading 
must  be  counted  {i.e.,  to  throw  away  the  same  weight  of  the 
loading  of  each  passenger  without  any  consideration  of  the 
value);  however,  the  law  of  the  ship  must  be  observed.  The 
owners  of  the  ship  (who  are  sailing  together)  may  make  a  con- 
dition among  themselves,  that  if  one  ship  will  be  lost  another 
shall  be  furnished.  If  there  were  wilful  carelessness,  however, 
or  he  departed  himself  and  sailed  on  a  place  where  the  other 
ships  usually  did  not  go,  the  conditions  are  of  no  avail.  "  Is 
this  not  self-evident?"  It  means  even  when  usually  in  the 
month  of  Nissan  they  go  the  distance  of  one  cord,  and  in  the 
month  of  Tishri  on  the  distance  of  two  cords,  and  the  ships  in 
question  did  go  in  Nissan,  when  they  usually  go  in  Tishri.  Lest 
one  say  that  this  is  not  to  be  considered  wilfulness,  he  comes  to 
teach  us  that  it  is  not  so. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  A  caravan  that  was  attacked  by  rob- 
bers, and  one  of  them  succeeds  in  saving  some  goods  from  them, 
this  must  be  divided  among  the  passengers;  if,  however,  he  said 
to  them,  '  I  will  try  to  save  for  myself,'  it  is  of  avail."  Let  us 
see  how  was  the  case.  If  each  of  them  could  do  the  same,  but 
he  preceded  them  even  if  he  has  said,  "  I  will  save  for  myself," 
he  must  not  do  so.  (It  is  not  of  avail  because  all  of  them  have 
not  renounced  the  hope  of  regaining  it.)  And,  on  the  other 
hand,  if  it  was  impossible  for  them  to  save  their  goods,  and  the 
one  succeeded  nevertheless  in  saving  some,  why  must  he  divide 
among  the  caravan  ?  (They  have  already  renounced  their  hope 
of  regaining.)  Said  Rami  bar  Hama:  "  It  means  when  they 
were  partners,  and  in  such  a  case  a  partner  may  separate  himself 
against  the  will  of  his  partner;  therefore  if  he  said,  I  will  do  so, 
he  is  separated;  but  not  if  he  did  it  silently."  R.  Ashi,  how- 
ever, says:  "  The  case  was  that  they  could  save  only  with  great 
trouble.  If  he  did  it  silently,  he  must  divide;  but  if  he  said, 
I  will  take  the  trouble  on  myself,  it  is  of  avail." 

MISHNA  VI. :  If  one  has  robbed  a  field  and  it  was  taken 
away  from  him  by  land  robbers,  when  the  land  robbers  were 
a  plague  of  this  country,  the  robber  may  say:  The  land  is  in  the 
same  place,  and  take  it  if  you  can ;  if,  however,  it  was  robbed 
because  of  the  robbers,  he  must  buy  another  field  for  him. 

GEMARA:  "  Because  of  the  robber:'  How  was  the  case  ? 
If  it  was  taken  only  from  him  and  not  from  others,  this  is 
already  stated  in  the  first  part.     "If  it  was  a  plague  of  the 


268  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

country,"  etc.  The  case  was  that  the  government  compelled 
him  to  show  such  land  of  which  they  could  take  possession,  and 
he  was  going  and  showed  it  to  them,  it  is  considered  as  if  it  was 
robbed  by  himself.  There  was  a  man  that  in  such  a  case  showed 
to  the  contractor  a  heap  of  wheat  belonging  to  the  Exilarch, 
and  when  the  case  came  before  R.  Na'hman,  he  made  him  pay 
for  the  same.  At  the  same  time  R.  Joseph  was  sitting  behind 
R.  Huna  bar  Hyya,  and  the  latter  behind  R.  Na'hman  and 
questioned  him:  "  If  the  decision  was  in  accordance  with  the 
law,  or  is  it  only  a  fine?"  And  he  answered:  "This  is  in 
accordance  with  our  Mishna,  which  states :  If  because  of  the 
robbers,  etc.,  and  it  was  explained  that  it  means  that  he  has 
showed,"  etc.  When  R.  Na'hman  went  out,  said  R.  Joseph 
to  the  above  R.  Huna:  "  What  difference  was  it  to  you  if  it  is 
law  or  fine  ? "  And  he  answered:  "  If  it  is  a  law,  then  we  will 
take  the  same  for  practice;  and  if  a  fine,  we  will  not."  R.  Huna 
bar  Jehudah  happened  to  be  in  the  house  of  Ebioni  (the  debate 
house  of  the  apostate  Jews),  when  after  he  came  to  tell  Rabba 
of  his  misfortune,  he  asked  him:  "  Do  you  feel  some  wrong 
action  you  have  done?"  And  he  said:  "There  was  a  case 
when  one  Israelite  compelled  by  the  heathen  showed  them  the 
property  of  his  neighbor  and  I  made  him  responsible."  And 
he  said  to  him :  "  Go  and  fix  your  wrong  act,  as  we  have  learned 
in  the  following  Boraitha :  An  Israelite  who  was  compelled  by 
heathens  and  showed  the  property  of  his  neighbor,  he  is  not 
responsible,  unless  he  took  it  with  his  own  hands  and  gave  it  to 
the  heathens."  Said  Rabba:  "  If,  however,  he  showed  it  to 
them  without  having  been  compelled  to  this,  it  is  to  be  consid- 
ered as  if  he  took  it  with  his  own  hands."  There  was  a  man 
whom  the  heathens  compelled,  and  he  showed  them  the  ass  of 
R.  Mary  ben  R.  Pinchas  ben  R.  Hisda.  The  heathens  said  to 
him,  Take  the  ass  and  follow  us,  and  he  did  so.  Afterwards  he 
was  summoned  before  R.  Ashi,  and  he  acquitted  him.  Said  the 
rabbis  to  R.  Ashi :  "  Have  we  not  learned  in  the  above  Boraitha: 
'  That  when  he  took  it  with  his  hands  he  is  responsible  '  ?  "  And 
he  answered:  "  The  Boraitha  means  when  he  was  not  told  to 
take  it  with  his  hand,  but  here  he  was  compelled  to  do  so  by 
their  command."  R.  Abuhu  objected  to  R.  Ashi  from  the  fol- 
lowing: "  If  a  mighty  man  (of  whom  one  is  in  fear)  says  to  one, 
'  See  that  this  branch  of  grapes  or  a  bunch  of  grain  shall  reach 
me,*  and  he  did  so,  he  is  responsible  for  it."  And  he  answered: 
"  It  means  that  they  were  standing  on  either  side  of  a  stream." 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  269 

[And  it  seems  to  be  so,  as  the  Boraitha  states:  See  it  shall  reach 
me,  and  not  Give  it  to  me.]  There  were  two  men  who  had  quar- 
relled about  a  net,  each  of  them  saying,  "  It  belongs  to  me." 
One  of  them  then  took  it  and  delivered  it  to  an  officer  of  the 
government.  Said  Abayi:  "  He  may  say,  '  It  was  mine,  and 
I  could  do  with  it  what  I  pleased.'"  Said  Rabha  to  him: 
Must  he  then  be  trusted?  he  ought  to  be  put  under  the  ban 
until  he  gets  it  back,  and  then  to  leave  it  to  the  court  to  decide 
to  whom  it  belongs.  It  happened  that  a  man  showed  to  the 
government  the  piera^a  of  R.  Aba.  R.  Abuhu,  R.  Hanina 
bar  Papi,  and  R.  Itz'hak  of  Naf'ha  were  discussing  what  should 
be  done  with  him.  R.  Ilai,  who  was  sitting  among  them,  said 
to  them:  "  So  said  Rabh,  that  he  is  responsible  only  when  he 
himself  took  it  and  gave  it  to  the  government."  They  said  to 
him:  "  Go  to  R.  Simeon  ben  Elyakim  and  R.  Elazar  ben  Pdoth, 
in  whose  courts  cases  of  germon  are  tried."  He  did  so,  and 
they  made  the  man  responsible  on  the  basis  stated  in  our 
Mishna:  "If  because  of  the  robber  and  it  was  explained  when 
he  showed  it." 

There  was  a  man  by  whom  a  silver  goblet  was  deposited, 
then  when  robbers  attacked  him  he  presented  them  with  the 
goblet,  and  they  left  him  alone.  When  the  case  came  before 
Rabha,  he  made  him  free.  Said  Abayi  to  him:  "  Has  not  the 
man  saved  himself  with  the  property  of  his  neighbor  ?  "  There- 
fore said  R.  Ashi;  "  Such  a  case  must  be  investigated.  If  he  is 
a  wealthy  man,  the  robbers  were  coming  to  rob  him  because  of 
his  own  wealth ;  and  if  he  is  not  wealthy,  they  came  only  because 
of  the  deposited  silver."  It  happened  also  with  a  man  to  whom 
the  treasury  for  redeeming  prisoners  was  deposited,  and  when 
robbers  attacked  him  he  presented  it  to  them.  When  the  case 
came  before  Rabha,  he  made  him  free ;  when  Abayi  remarked  to 
him  the  same  as  he  has  remarked  before  to  Rabha,  Rabha  an- 
swered :  ' '  There  is  not  a  greater  redeeming  of  prisoners  than  this 
case  itself.  There  was  a  man  who  led  his  ass  to  a  boat  before  men 
came  in ;  after  it  was  crowded,  it  was  too  heavy  and  it  was  dan- 
gerous, lest  the  boat  sink,  and  one  of  the  passengers  pushed  the 
ass  into  the  river,  and  it  was  drowned;  after  which  Rabba  made 
him  also  free."  Abayi  remarked  to  him  as  above,  and  he  said: 
"  It  was  only  self-defence,  then  if  not  for  the  ass  he  himself 
would  drown."  This  decision  of  Rabba  is  according  to  his  the- 
ory elsewhere,  that  one  who  runs  after  a  man  to  kill  him,  and 
on  the  way  he  breaks  vessels,  no  difference  if  they  belong  to  the 


270  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

persecuted  man  or  to  others,  he  is  free  from  payment,  because 
he  is  guilty  of  a  capital  crime;  and  the  persecuted  one,  if  he 
breaks  the  vessels  of  the  persecutor,  is  free,  because  the  prop- 
erty of  his  persecutor  must  not  be  dearer  to  him  than  his  own 
body.  And  if,  however,  they  belong  to  others,  he  is  responsi- 
ble, as  it  is  not  allowed  to  save  himself  with  the  goods  of  his 
neighbor.  But  if  one  was  going  after  the  persecutor  to  save  the 
persecuted  man,  and  while  running  he  breaks  vessels,  he  is  free 
no  matter  to  whom  they  belong.  This  is  not  because  the  law 
is  so,  but  if  he  should  be  responsible,  no  one  would  be  willing 
to  save  a  man  from  persecution. 

MISHNA  VII.  :  If  a  stream  has  overflowed  the  robbed  field, 
he  may  say  to  him:  "  Yours  is  before  you." 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  "  One  who  robbed  a  field 
and  it  overflowed,  must  deliver  up  another.  So  is  the  decree 
of  R.  Elazar."  The  sages,  however,  maintain:  "  He  may  say 
to  him:  'Yours  is  before  you.'"  What  is  the  point  of  their 
difTerence  ?  R.  Elazar  based  his  theory  upon  the  exclusions 
and  inclusions  of  the  verse  [Lev.  v.  21]:  "If  he  namely  lie 
unto  his  neighbor,"  which  includes  everything.  "  That  which 
was  delivered  to  him  to  keep,"  it  excludes  other  things;  and 
further  on  [ibid.,  ibid.]:  "  Or  any  one  thing  about  which  he 
may  have  sworn  falsely."  It  is  again  an  inclusion  of  every- 
thing, and  there  is  a  rule  that  when  the  Scripture  includes,  ex- 
cludes, and  again  includes,  everything  is  included.  The  rabbis, 
however,  do  not  consider  this  as  inclusions  and  exclusions,  but  as 
a  general  and  special.  "If  he  namely  lie  "  is  general;  "  Which 
was  trusted  to  him"  is  special;  and  "  Or  any  one  thing"  is 
again  general,  and  there  is  a  rule  that  when  there  is  a  special 
between  two  generals,  it  must  be  judged  similar  to  the  special 
only;  namely,  as  the  special  is  a  movable  thing  and  it  has  a  value 
in  money,  so  all  articles  which  are  movable  and  have  a  value, 
excluding  real  estate,  which  is  immovable,  and  bondsmen,  who 
are  compared  to  real  estate,  and  also  documents,  although  they 
are  movable,  they  themselves  have  no  value  of  money.  But 
have  we  not  learned  in  another  Boraitha:  "  The  very  same  is 
the  case  with  the  robbed  cow,  which  was  overflooded  (which  is 
a  movable  thing,  and  has  a  value  of  money)?  He  must  furnish 
him  with  another  cow,  so  is  the  decree  of  Elazar;  the  sages, 
however,  say:  He  may  say:  *  Yours  is  before  you.'  In  what  is 
the  point  of  their  difference  then  ?"  Said  R.  Papa:  "  It  means 
in  a  case  where  the  robbed  cow  was  lying  on  the  robbed  field, 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  271 

and  it  was  overflooded  with  the  field,  (and  the  robber  did  not 
yet  acquire  title)  on  the  robbed  cow."  R.  Eliezar  is  so  in 
accord  with  his  theory  and  the  rabbis  with  their  theory, 

MISHNA  VIII.:  If  one  robbed,  borrowed,  or  deposited  an 
article  when  they  were  in  an  inhabited  land,  he  must  not  return 
it  when  he  is  in  a  desert,  unless  he  took  it  for  the  purpose  of 
going  into  a  desert. 

GEMARA:  There  is  a  contradiction:  "A  loan  is  payable 
everywhere,  a  bailment  and  a  lost  article  are  not  to  be  delivered 
only  in  their  right  places  (hence  a  loan  may  be  returned  at  any 
place?)."  Said  Abayi:  "The  quoted  one  means  this:  A  loan 
may  be  demanded  at  any  place,  but  a  lost  thing  and  deposit  are 
to  be  demanded  at  the  right  places  only." 

"  For  the  purpose  to  go,"  etc.  If  so  was  the  condition,  is  it 
not  self-evident?  The  case  is,  if  he  said,  let  be  this  bailment 
with  you  as  I  go  to  the  desert,  and  the  bailee  said  to  him,  I  also 
intend  to  go  there,  and  if  my  wishes  will  be  to  return  it  to  you 
there,  I  may  do  so. 

MISHNA  IX.'.  If  one  says,  I  have  robbed  you,  or  borrowed 
from  you,  or  you  have  deposited  with  me,  and  I  don't  know  if 
I  have  returned  it  to  you,  he  must  pay;  however,  if  he  says, 
I  am  in  doubt  whether  I  have  robbed,  etc.,  he  is  free. 

GEMARA:  It  was  taught:  If  the  plaintiff  claims  a  mana 
(100  zuz),  and  the  defendant  says,  I  don't  know;  R.  Huna  and 
R.  Jehudah  say,  "  He  must  pay,"  because  certainty  has 
preference  to  uncertainty.  R.  Na'hman  and  R.  Johanan  say, 
"  He  is  free,"  because  they  hold  that  the  money  in  posses- 
sion of  the  defendant  must  be  considered  his  until  evidence  is 
brought.  An  objection  was  raised  from  our  Mishna,  which 
states  that  if  he  says,  "  I  am  in  doubt  if  you  have  borrowed  it 
to  me,  he  is  free."  Now  let  us  see  how  was  the  case.  If  there 
is  no  plaintiff,  then  even  the  first  part  in  the  case,  "  I  am  certain 
I  have  borrowed,  but  doubtful  if  it  was  returned,"  must  also 
speak  when  there  is  no  plaintiff;  why,  then,  must  he  pay  ?  We 
must,  therefore,  say  that  the  whole  Mishna  treats  when  there  IS 
a  plaintiff,  and  nevertheless  in  the  second  part  it  states  he  is 
free  from  payment.  (And  this  is  an  objection  to  Huna  and 
Jehudah.)  Nay,  the  Mishna  treats  when  there  was  no  plaintiff, 
but  the  man  likes  to  satisfy  the  heavenly  will.  (If  he  is  certain 
that  he  has  borrowed,  it  is  the  heavenly  will  he  shall  pay;  but  if 
he  is  in  doubt  M'hether  he  has  borrowed,  he  is  free  at  any  rate.) 
It  was  taught  also  by  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Jo- 


272  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

hanan:  "  If  one  claims  a  mana  and  the  defendant  says,  '  I  don't 
know,'  he  is  obliged  to  pay  if  he  would  satisfy  the  heavenly  will." 

MISHNA  X. :  U  one  steals  a  sheep  from  the  flock  and  re- 
turns it,  and  it  dies  or  it  was  stolen  again,  he  is  responsible;  if, 
however,  the  owner  did  not  know  either  of  the  theft  or  of  its 
returning,  and  when  they  came  to  number  the  flock  they  found 
it  right  (and  after  it  died  or  was  stolen),  he  is  free. 

GEMARA:  Rabhsaid:  "  If  the  theft  was  known,  the  return- 
ing must  also  be  announced  (and  if  he  did  not  so,  he  is  still  re- 
sponsible for  it,  even  after  the  owner  had  numbered  the  flock), 
and  the  numbering  makes  him  free  only  when  he  did  not  have 
any  knowledge  of  the  theft."  Samuel,  however,  said:  "  The 
numbering  makes  him  free  at  any  rate."  As  he  explains  it,  the 
last  sentence  of  the  Mishna  applies  to  the  whole  of  it.  R. 
Johanan  said:  "  If  they  have  knowledge  of  the  theft,  the  num- 
bering after  it  was  returned  makes  him  free;  but  if  they  have 
not  any  knowledge  of  the  theft,  the  numbering  does  not  matter 
at  all,  as  he  is  free  even  without  it."  And  he  explains  that  the 
last  sentence  of  the  Mishna  applies  only  to  the  first  part  of  it. 
R.  Hisda,  however,  said:  "Only  when  they  have  knowledge 
does  the  numbering  make  him  free;  but  if  not,  he  is  responsible 
even  after  the  numbering.  And  the  statement  of  our  Mishna 
holds  good  only  when  they  had  knowledge  of  the  theft  also,  and 
Rabha  explained  the  reason  of  R.  Hisda's  statement  thus:  The 
theft  accustomed  the  sheep  to  separate  themselves  from  the 
flock,  and  it  may  do  so  again ;  but  if  he  has  notified  the  owner, 
he  will  take  care  of  them.  Did  Rabha,  indeed,  say  so  ?  Has 
he  not  said :  "  If  one  has  seen  that  a  thief  had  picked  up  sheep 
of  the  flock  with  the  intention  of  stealing  them,  and  he  alarmed 
him  and  the  thief  threw  them  away,  and  the  man  was  not  cer- 
tain if  the  sheep  were  returned,  and  the  sheep  then  died  or  are 
stolen,  he  is  responsible.  Is  it  not  to  assume  that  the  thief  is 
responsible  even  when  the  owner  has  numbered  them  ?  Nay,  it 
means  when  it  was  not  numbered.  But  did  Rabh  say  as  it  is 
stated  above?  Did  he  not  state:  '  If  he  has  returned  it  to 
another  flock,  which  the  same  owner  has  on  another  place,  he 
is  free  (and  there  was  neither  knowledge  nor  numbering)'?" 
Said  R.  Hanan  bar  Aba:  Rabh  agrees  when  the  sheep  were 
speckled,  and  in  such  a  case  the  owner  knows  that  it  was  stolen 
in  his  absence,  and  the  shepherd  recognizes  it  by  the  speckle. 
Shall  we  assume  that  the  following  Tanaim  differ  in  this  case: 
"If  one  has  stolen  a  sheep  from  the  flock  or  a  coin  from  the 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  273 

pocket,  he  has  to  return  it  to  the  same  place  he  took  it  from  "  ? 
So  is  the  decree  of  Ishmael.  R.  Aqiba,  however,  says:  "  It  is 
necessary  that  the  owner  know  the  facts  in  the  case."  The 
schoolmen  thought  that  usually  a  man  knows  the  amount  in  his 
pocket,  and  he  counts  it  whenever  he  takes  a  coin  out,  so  he 
has  knowledge  of  the  theft;  and  R.  Ishmael  holds  that  the 
numbering  makes  him  free,  and  R.  Aqiba  that  the  numbering 
does  not  make  him  free,  unless  he  was  notified  of  the  returning. 
(Hence  R.  Ishmael  and  R.  Aqiba  differ  in  both,  a  sheep  when  it 
was  not  notified,  in  which  Rabh  and  Samuel  differ,  and  also 
in  the  case  in  which  R.  Johanan  and  R.  Hisda  differ.)  Said 
R.  Zebid  in  the  name  of  Rabha:  "  If  a  bailee  has  stolen  from 
the  premises  of  the  owner,  all  agree  with  R.  Hisda;  but  here 
they  speak  of  a  case  where  the  bailee  has  stolen  it  from  his  own 
premises."  R.  Aqiba  holds  that  his  function  as  a  bailee  has 
ceased  (and  he  must  notify  the  owner  of  the  theft  and  return- 
ing). R.  Ishmael,  however,  holds:  "  He  is  still  a  bailee,  and 
when  he  returns  it  to  the  place  he  took  it  from  his  own  knowl- 
edge suf^ces." 

MISHNA  XL  :  One  must  not  buy  from  the  shepherds  kids 
of  goats,  wool,  or  milk,  and  not  from  fruit  watchmen  wood 
and  fruits.  One  may,  however,  buy  from  the  women  of  Jehu- 
dah  woollen  garments  (which  usually  were  manufactured  by 
them),  and  flax  garments  from  those  of  Galilee,  and  also  calves 
from  the  women  of  the  city  of  Sharon.  If,  however,  the  sailors 
like  to  do  it  secretly,  it  is  prohibited.  Eggs  and  poultry  are 
allowed  to  be  bought  at  any  place. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  "  One  must  not  buy  from 
the  shepherds  goats,  kids,  sheared  or  plucked  off;  garments  of 
wool,  however,  are  excluded,  because  it  belongs  to  them ;  milk 
and  cheese  may  be  bought  in  deserts,  but  not  in  inhabited 
places.  Four  or  five  sheep  or  fleeces  of  wool  together  may  be 
bought,  but  not  two."  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  Domestic  sheep 
(which  are  brought  home  at  night-time)  may  be  bought,  but  not 
of  deserts. ' '  This  is  the  rule  concerning  buying  of  shepherds,  an 
article  which  the  owner  of  it  perceives  may  be  bought,  but  not 
articles  which  are  not. 

"  The  Master  says,  'Four  or  five  sheep,'  "  etc.  If  four  may 
be  bought,  so  much  the  more  five?  Said  R.  Hisda:  "  Four 
from  a  small  flock  and  five  from  a  large  one."  But  is  not  this 
text  contradicting  itself  ?  It  states  four  or  five,  from  which  it  is 
to  be  inferred  but  not  three;  and  immediately  it  states  but  not 


274  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

two,  from  which  one  may  infer  that  three  is  allowed.  This 
presents  no  difficulty.  If  the  three  are  of  the  best  sheep,  they 
may ;  and  if  from  the  lean  ones,  they  may  not  be  bought.  The 
schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  "  R.  Jehudah,  who  says 
that  domestic  ones,"  etc.,  made  his  condition  of  the  first  part; 
namely,  that  for  the  four  or  five  in  question,  and  he  is  more 
rigorous  than  the  first  Tana  of  the  above  Boraitha,  or  his  con- 
dition is  for  the  second  negative  part,  which  states  but  not  two 
sheep,  and  he,  R.  Jehudah,  comes  to  teach  that  only  from  out- 
side, but  domestic,  even  two  may  be  bought,  and  he  is  lenient. 
Come  and  hear  the  following  Boraitha:  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  Do- 
mestic ones  may  be  bought  of  them,  but  not  others;  in  any 
place,  however,  four  or  five  sheep  together  may  be  bought." 
Hence  his  decision  was  lenient. 

"  Arid  not  from  the  fruits  watchmen,''  etc.  Rabha  bought 
a  bunch  of  branches  from  an  ovpo?  (a  laborer  who  gets  for  his 
labor  a  part  of  the  products).  Said  Abayi  to  him:  "  Did  not 
our  Mishna  state  '  Not  from  the  fruit  watchmen,  wood  or 
fruits.'"  And  he  answered:  "  It  means  of  a  watchman  who 
is  hired  for  money,  but  of  such  who  takes  for  his  labor  a  part 
of  the  products,  may  be  bought,  as  he  usually  sells  his  own 
part." 

The  rabbis  taught :  It  may  be  bought  from  the  fruit  watch- 
men when  they  sell  publicly  and  the  scale  is  before  them ;  if, 
however,  they  try  to  do  it  secretly,  it  is  prohibited.  It  may  be 
bought  from  them  at  the  gate  of  the  garden,  but  not  at  a  place 
which  is  behind  it. 

It  was  taught:  "  When  is  allowed  to  buy  from  a  robber  ?" 
Rabh  holds:  "  When  it  is  known  that  the  greater  part  of  the 
goods  is  his  own."  Samuel,  however,  maintains  that  even  when 
the  smaller  part  only  is  known  to  be  his  own.  R.  Jehudah's 
decision  to  Ada  Daila  was  in  accordance  with  Samuel's  theory. 

Property  which  belongs  to  a  denouncer,  R,  Huna  and  R. 
Jehudah  differ;  one  says,  "  It  may  be  destroyed  intentionally," 
and  the  other  says,  "  It  may  not."  The  one  who  says,  "  It 
may,"  speaks  thus  because  his  money  must  not  be  dearer  than 
his  body.  And  the  one  who  says,  "  It  may  not,"  speaks  thus 
because,  perhaps,  he  will  have  good  children,  and  it  is  written 
[Job,  xxvii.  17]:  "He  may  prepare,  but  the  righteous  will 
clothe  himself  (therewith)."  R.  Hisda  had  an  oi)po?  who  used 
to  take  exactly  the  half  of  the  products  for  himself.  Thereupon 
R.  Hisda  discharged  him,  and  read  with  reference  to  himself  the 


TRACT    BABA    KAMA    (THE    FIRST    GATE).  275 

verse  [Prov,  xiii.  22] :  "  But  the  wealth  of  the  sinner  is  treasured 
up  for  the  righteous." 

R.  Johanan  said:  One  who  robs  his  neighbor  even  the 
value  of  2.parutha  (half  a  cent)  is  considered  as  if  he  would  take 
away  his  life;  as  it  is  written  [Prov.  i.  19]:  "  So  is  the  path  of 
every  one  that  is  greedy  after  (unlawful)  gain ;  it  takes  away  the 
life  of  those  that  own  it."  And  also  [Jeremiah,  v.  17]:  "  And 
they  shall  consume  thy  harvest  and  thy  bread ;  they  shall  con- 
sume thy  sons  and  thy  daughters."  And  also  [Joel,  iv.  19]; 
'  Because  of  the  violence  against  the  children  of  Judah."  And 
also  [II  Samuel,  xxi.  i]:  "  On  account  of  Saul  and  on  account 
of  the  house  of  blood,  this  because  he  has  slain  the  Gibeonites." 
To  what  purpose  is  the  second  verse  cited  ?  One  may  say  that 
it  speaks  only  of  his  life,  but  not  of  the  life  of  his  children; 
hence  the  other  verse.  And  still  one  may  say  that  it  treats  only 
of  a  robber  who  does  not  pay  for  the  robbery,  but  not  if  he  does ; 
hence  the  third  verse,  which  treats  of  violence,  which  is  even 
when  he  gives  money.  And,  finally,  one  may  say:  It  is  only 
when  he  did  it  with  his  hands,  but  not  when  he  was  only  a  ger- 
mon;  hence  the  last  verse,  which  reads,  "Who  has  slain  the 
Gibeonites";  and  where  is  it  to  be  found  that  Saul  had  slain 
them  ?  We  must  say,  therefore,  that  he  was  a  germon  because 
he  had  slain  Nob  the  city  of  the  priests,  the  supporters  of  the 
Gibeonites,  who  lost  their  lives  by  the  death  of  their  supporters. 
And  the  Scripture  considers  Saul  as  he  himself  had  slain  them. 

' '  But  it  may  be  bought  from  the  women ^ ' '  etc.  The  rabbis 
taught:  "  It  may  be  bought  from  woman  (the  articles  men- 
tioned in  the  Mishna),  but  not  wine,  oil,  or  fine  meal,  and  also 
not  from  slaves  and  not  from  minors."  Aba  Saul,  however,  said: 
"  A  woman  may  sell  for  four,  five  dinars  for  the  purpose  of  buy- 
ing a  cap  for  herself."  They  all  mentioned  if  they  told  the 
buyers  to  be  careful  about  the  bargain,  then  it  is  prohibited. 
Charity  may  be  taken  from  them  by  the  treasurers  only  a  small 
quantity,  but  not  a  large  one.  From  the  women  of  the  men 
who  are  engaged  in  the  oil  press  may  be  bought  a  measure  of 
olives  or  oil,  but  not  small  quantities.  R.  Simeon  ben  Gama- 
liel, however,  said  that  in  the  upper  Galilee  even  a  small  quan- 
tity may  be  bought  (as  this  article  is  very  dear  there),  and  it 
may  be  the  men  are  ashamed  to  sell  small  quantities  in  his 
house,  and  they  give  it  to  their  wives  to  do  so.  Rabbina,  who 
was  a  treasurer  of  charity,  happened  to  be  in  the  city  of  Mehuza, 
and  the  women  gave  him  for  charity  golden  chains  and  rings,  and 


276  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

he  accepted.  Said  Rabba  Tosphali  to  him:  "  Did  not  the  Bo- 
raitha  state  that  a  large  quantity  must  not  be  accepted  from  the 
women  by  the  treasurers  of  charity  ?  "  And  he  answered:  "  For 
the  Mezuzath  this  is  considered  a  small  quantity." 

MISHNA  XII.  :  Flocks  of  wool  which  came  out  by  washing 
belong  to  the  washman,  but  what  came  out  by  the  carder  belongs 
to  the  owner.  If  three  threads  only  come  out  by  the  washing, 
the  washman  may  keep  it ;  if  more,  he  must  not ;  if,  however, 
there  were  black  threads  in  a  whole  piece,  he  may  keep  all  of 
them  for  himself.  The  remaining  threads  of  sewing,  and  stuff 
of  the  size  of  three  fingers  square,  belong  to  the  owner,  not  to 
the  tailor.  The  splinters  which  fall  off  from  the  carpenter's 
bench  with  the  plane  belong  to  him,  but  what  with  the  hatchet 
are  the  owner's;  if,  however,  he  labored  at  the  owner's  house, 
even  of  the  plane  belongs  to  the  owner. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  "  One  may  buy  flocks  from 
the  washman,  because  it  is  his.  The  washman  may  take  the  two 
upper  threads  for  himself.  By  stretching  the  garment  out  for 
combing  he  can  stitch  the  loops  on  the  garment  only  by  three 
stitches.  One  shall  not  comb  the  garment  to  its  shoot,  but  to 
its  warp,  and  he  shall  cut  up  the  fringes  to  its  length  but  not  to 
its  width ;  if  by  completing  it  he  has  to  cut  up  in  the  width  also, 
he  may  do  so,  the  size  of  a  span."  * 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  One  shall  not  buy  from  the  carder  flocks, 
because  they  are  not  his  property,  unless  in  such  places  where 
it  is  customary  that  the  carder  keeps  it  for  himself.  A  cushion, 
however,  or  a  pillow  filled  with  this  stuff  may  be  bought  from  him 
at  any  place."     Why  so  ?     Because  the  change  gives  title  to  him. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  One  must  not  buy  from  a  weaver  (who 
is  laboring  for  others)  all  the  stuff  in  connection  with  the  weav- 
ing; he  may,  however,  buy  from  him  a  garment  even  made  of 
different  colors  (although  it  is  to  be  presumed  that  the  different 
colors  were  the  remainder  of  threads  given  to  him  for  garments, 
and  did  not  previously  belong  to  him,  as  the  weaving  it  to  a  gar- 
ment is  considered  a  change  and  title  is  acquired).  The  same  is 
the  case  with  a  dyer  :  one  must  not  buy  from  him  stuffs  in  con- 
nection with  dyeing,  but  a  whole  dyed  garment,  for  the  reason 
stated  before." 

*  Here  in  the  text  conies  a  discussion,  how  many  threads  the  laborer  takes  for  him- 
self, and  then  some  Boraithas  contradicting  each  other  in  this  respect,  questions 
which  are  not  decided,  and  terms  of  laboring  which  cannot  be  understood  now  with- 
out the  knowledge  of  the  machinery  of  tint  time,  and  therefore  we  have  omitted  it. 


TRACT   BABA   KAMA   (THE   FIRST   GATE).  277 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  If  a  tanner  takes  skins  to  prepare  them, 
the  rubbish  belongs  to  the  owner;  the  wool,  however,  of  the 
skins  which  was  taken  out  from  the  water  belongs  to  the  tan- 
ner." 

"  If  they  were  black,''  etc.  Said  R.  Jehudah:  "  If  such  was 
taken  off  by  the  washman,  it  counts  for  the  size  which  is  needed 
for  putting  zithzoths  in  it ;  however,  my  son  Itzchak  is  particular 
with  it  and  cuts  it  up." 

"  But  not  the  tailor.''  How  much,  however,  may  the  tailor 
keep  for  himself  ?     Said  R.  Assi :  The  size  of  a  needle's  square. 

' '  The  splinters  which  fall  out  by  the  carpenter, ' '  etc.  Is  there 
not  a  contradiction  from  the  following:  "  What  the  carpenter 
takes  off  with  the  hatchet  and  what  is  cut  up  with  the  saw 
belongs  to  the  owner,  but  what  falls  off  from  the  bore  or  plane 
or  the  splinter  by  the  saw  belongs  to  the  carpenter"  ?  Said 
Rabha:  "  There  is  no  contradiction.  At  the  place  of  our  Tana 
there  were  two  kinds  of  planes,  a  big  one  and  a  small  one.  The 
big  one  is  called  aBivrf,  and  the  small  one  is  called  plane.  The 
Tana  of  the  Boraitha,  however,  had  knowledge  of  the  big  one 
only,  and  named  it  also  plane." 

' '  If,  however,  he  was  working  at  the  owner' s  house, ' '  etc. 
The  rabbis  taught:  The  stone-cutters  may  keep  the  rubbish; 
branches,  however,  which  fall  off  from  the  trees  by  fixing  them, 
or  of  wineyards  or  other  plants  and  herbs,  if  the  owner  is  partic- 
ular with  them,  it  is  considered  a  robbery  when  taken  without 
permission,  but  not  if  they  are  not  particular.  Not  any  robbery 
applies  to  onycha  and  grass,  unless  the  places  where  they  are 
particular.  So  said  R.  Jehudah.  Said  Rabba:  "  The  city  of 
Sirian  in  Babylon  is  one  of  the  places  where  they  are  particular 
with  it." 


END  OF  TRACT  BABA  KAMA. 


TRACT    BABA   METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE) 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Synopsis  of  Subjects    of  Tract    Baba    Metzia   (Middle 

Gate) i 


CHAPTER   I. 

Rules  and  Regulations  Regarding  Found  Articles, 
Documents,  Animals,  and  if  One  Appoints  a  Mes- 
senger TO  Pick  up  a  Found  Article    .... 


CHAPTER   n. 

Laws  Relating  to  Found  Articles,  which  may  or  may 
not  be  Kept  without  Proclamation,  and  how  Found 
Articles  shall  be  Cared  for,  etc 44 


CHAPTER   HI. 

Laws  Relating  to  Bailments,  Hirers,  Losses  on  Depos- 
ited Article  as  to  their  Quantity  and  their 
Quality,  as  to  the  Care  to  be  Bestowed  on  Depos- 
ited Articles  by  the  Depositary,  and  of  Money 
whether  it  may  be  Used 8i 


CHAPTER   IV. 

Laws  Relating  to  Title,  Real  and  Personal  ;  Fraud, 
WHAT  Constitutes  Fraud  and  the  Circumstances 
surrounding  Fraudulent  Transactions,  etc,     .        .no 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA  (MIDDLE 
GATE). 


CHAPTER  I. 


MiSHNA  /.  Two  persons  who  hold  a  garment,  and  each  of  them  claims 
that  he  has  found  it.  A  biblical  oath  is  given  only  when  there  is  an  admis- 
sion in  part  from  the  defendant.  If  the  plaintiff  claims  a  hundred  and  the 
defendant  says  only  fifty,  and  here  they  are.  If  one  claims  a  hundred,  and 
the  other  denies  all,  and  there  are  witnesses  for  fifty,  what  shall  the  oath 
contain  ?  When  one  of  the  two  holders  overcame  the  other  and  took  it  away, 
what  is  the  law  ?  There  was  a  bath-house  about  which  two  parties  quar- 
relled— one  of  them  arose  and  consecrated  it.  When  two  hold  a  note,  the 
lender  claims  the  note  is  not  yet  paid,  and  the  borrower  says  the  note  is 
paid.  Where  is  "the  theory  of  because"  to  be  used?  The  law  is  that 
leading  gives  title.  If  one  was  found  riding  upon  a  found  ass,  and  another 
was  holding  the  bridle, 1-17 

MiSHNAS  //.  TO  VI.  If  one  sees  an  article  on  the  road,  and  says  to  his 
neighbor,  bring  it  to  me.  If  one  picks  up  an  article  for  another,  the  latter 
does  not  acquire  title.  Why  so  ?  If  one  has  seen  an  article,  and  he  fell  upon 
it.  If  one  has  seen  people  running  after  a  lame  stag  on  his  field.  It  hap- 
pened that  R.  Gamaliel  said:  "The  tithe  which  I  am  going  to  measure 
should  be  delivered  to  Joshuah."  When  one  throws  a  purse  of  money  through 
the  open  door.  When  a  thing  was  found  by  one's  minor  son  or  daughter,  or 
his  Jewish  man  or  maid  servant,  or  his  wife.  When  one  has  found  a  note 
which  secures  real  estate.  If  Reuben  sold  a  field  to  Simeon  with  security, 
and  the  creditor  of  Reuben  came  and  took  it  away.  Encumbered  property  is 
not  liable  either  for  the  used  fruits,  etc.,  for  the  benefit  of  humanity.  How 
a  bill  of  sale  must  be  written.  If  one  buys  an  estate,  knowing  that  the  seller 
is  not  the  real  owner  of  it.  If  the  robber  after  he  has  sold  it  bought  it  from 
the  real  owner.  If  one  says  that  the  estate  which  I  am  about  buy  now  shall 
be  transferred  to  you  at  the  same  time  that  I  acquire  title  to  it.  When  I  wag 
about  six  or  seven  years  old,  my  father  was  among  the  scribes  of  Mar 
Samuel's  court.  If  one  claims  a  hundred  zuz,  and  the  other  denies  ;  after- 
wards he  says,  I  have  paid  it.     If  one  finds  documents  of  divorce,  of  enfran- 


vi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

chisement  of  a  slave,  of  presents,  etc.  What  is  to  be  considered  a  will  ? 
documents  signed  by  the  court,  documents  of  a  claim,  etc.  What  is  meant 
by  claiming  documents  ?  What  is  called  a  roll  ?  When  three  borrowed  from 
one,  etc., 17-43 


CHAPTER    II. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  y/.  There  are  found  articles  which  belong  to  the  finder 
without  any  proclamation.  If  there  is  a  change  in  the  found  article  which 
usually  ought  not  to  be.  The  renouncing  of  hope  in  regaining  a  lost  article 
whose  loss  is  not  yet  certain.  Amaimar,  Mar  Zutra,  and  R.  Ashi  hap- 
pened to  be  in  the  garden  of  Mari  bar  Issak,  and  the  gardener  placed  before 
them  dates  and  pomegranates.  The  rule  concerning  a  lost  article  is  this. 
Whether  a  number  is  considered  a  distinguishing  mark  or  not  ?  The  reason 
why  the  sages  decided  that  the  place  is  not  to  be  considered  a  mark.  If  one 
finds  a  purse  in  the  market,  how  is  the  law  ?  The  following  articles  he  must 
proclaim.  Three  coins  one  upon  the  other,  etc.  (See  foot-note,  p.  55.)  If 
one  found,  under  a  wooden  wall,  pigeons  tied  one  to  the  other.  If  he  found 
a  covered  vessel.  If  one  found  anything  in  a  heap  of  rubbish.  If  one  has 
seen  money  dropped  on  sand,  and  afterwards  found  and  took  it.  If  one 
found  something  in  a  store.    If  one  found  money  in  fruit  sent  to  him,  .  44-59 

MiSHNAS  VJ.  TO  XIII.  The  returning  according  to  marks  given  is  bib- 
lically or  rabbinically  ?  Until  what  time  is  he  obliged  to  proclaim  }  R. 
Ami  happened  to  find  a  purse  with  dinars  in  the  presence  of  a  Roman.  If 
one  identifies  the  article  but  not  its  marks.  If  the  found  article  is  of  such 
a  kind  that  it  labors  for  its  food.  And  if  of  such  a  kind  that  it  does  not  labor. 
If  one  found  books.  If  the  article  was  a  garment.  Vessels  of  silver  and 
copper.  It  is  better  to  drink  a  goblet  from  the  hand  of  a  witch  than  to  drink 
a.  goblet  of  lukewarm  water.  R.  Ismael  b.  Jose  was  on  the  road,  and  met 
a  man  carrying  a  bundle  of  wood.  What  is  to  be  considered  a  lost  thing? 
If  he  returned  it  and  it  runs  away  again.  What  is  to  be  deduced  from  the 
twofold  expressions  in  many  passages  written  in  the  Scripture  ?  The  loss 
of  time  must  be  appraised  according  to  one's  loss  in  his  special  trade.  If 
he  has  found  the  animal  in  a  stable,  in  a  public  thoroughfare.  The  com- 
mandment of  the  Scripture  is  for  unloading,  but  not  loading.  How  is  this 
to  be  understood  ?  If  one  lost  a  thing,  as  did  his  father  before,  etc.  If  his 
father  and  his  master  were  overloaded.  They  who  occupy  themselves 
with  the  study  of  Scripture  are  not  to  be  blamed,  etc.     See  foot-note, 

p.  79. 59-80 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  7V.  A  deposit  stolen  or  lost,  paid  by  the  depository,  of 
which  thereafter  the  thief  was  found,  to  whom  shall  the  double  amount  be 
paid  ?  A  gratuitous  bailee,  when  he  said,  I  have  neglected  my  duty,  etc. 
There  was  lost  a  deposited  nose-jewel,  and  R.  Na'hman  made  him  pay  by 
force.  Finally  the  article  was  found,  and  was  increased  in  value,  etc.  If 
an  article  was  appraised  for  the  sake  of  a  creditor,  and  the  latter  appraised 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  vii 

ft  for  his  own  creditor,  may  the  returning  take  place  or  not  ?  From  what 
time  may  the  creditor  use  the  products  of  an  appraised  estate  ?  If  one  has 
hired  a  cow  and  he  loaned  it  to  some  one  else.  It  can  happen  that  the  hirer 
has  a  right  to  require  several  cows  from  the  owner  of  one  cow.  How  so  ? 
A  bailee  who  has  transferred  the  bailment  to  another  bailee,  how  is  the 
law  ?  The  Halakha  prevails,  that  a  bailee  who  has  transferred  the  bailment 
to  another  bailee  of  any  kind  is  responsible.  If  doubtful  money  is  to  be  col- 
lected or  not  (illustrated  in  Mishna  III.)  ?  Do  you  want  to  contradict  a  case 
of  deposit  with  a  case  of  robbery  ?  A  robber  must  be  punished.  If  there 
was  an  uncertainty  of  both  the  plaintiff  and  the 'defendant,  how  is  the  law.? 
If  one  deposits  fruit  at  his  neighbor's  ?  If  one  becomes  a  prisoner,  may  his 
property  be  transferred  to  his  nearest  relatives  or  not?  The  difference 
between  forsaken,  abandoned,  and  a  prisoner's  properties.  The  estate  of  a 
prisoner  must  not  be  transferred  to  a  minor  relative,  and  not  the  estate  of 
a  minor  to  any  relative.  There  was  an  old  woman  who  had  three  daughters; 
together  with  one  of  them  she  was  taken  to  prison,  and  of  the  remaining 
two  one  died  and  left  a  child.  A  brother  of  Mari  b.  Isk  came  to  him  and 
demanded  a  share  of  the  inheritance,  and  he  said,  I  do  not  know  you, 

81-97 
MiSHNAS  V.  TO  X/.  The  quantity  of  usual  losses  one  may  count  to  de- 
posited articles  of  grain  and  fruit  ?  Losses  of  wine  and  oil  depend  upon  the 
kind  of  barrels  in  which  placed.  If  a  barrel  is  deposited  for  safe-keeping,  and 
the  depository  handled  it,  and  it  broke  while  yet  under  his  hand.  Peculiar 
is  the  stretching  of  hands  which  reads  in  regard  to  a  bailee  for  hire,  in  con- 
nection from  the  same  expression  in  the  Scripture  which  reads  in  regard 
to  a  gratuitous  bailee.  If  one  has  deposited  money  for  safe-keeping,  and  the 
depository  tied  it  and  carried  it  on  his  shoulder,  etc.  Nothing  is  considered 
safety  with  money,  unless  it  is  hidden  in  the  ground.  It  happened  that  one 
deposited  money  with  his  neighbor,  and  he  gave  it  to  his  mother  for  safe- 
keeping, and  it  was  stolen.  Money  deposited  for  safe-keeping  with  a  money- 
changer. A  depository  who  stretches  his  hand  for  the  bailment.  If  one 
intends  to  use  a  bailment  deposited  in  his  control  and  says  so,  the  liability 
follows  immediately, 97-109 


CHAPTER  IV. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V.  If  one  bought  gold  and  silver  coins  together  and  made 
a  drawing  on  the  gold  ones,  title  is  also  given  to  the  silver  ones,  but  not  vic£ 
versa.  Rabh  borrowed  dinars  from  the  daughter  of  R.  Hyya  ;  thereafter 
the  dinars  increased  in  value.  One  holds  that  the  law  of  exchange  applies  to 
a  coin  also,  and  another  holds  that  it  does  not.  If  one  were  holding  some 
coins  in  his  hands  and  said  :  Sell  me  your  articles  for  the  money  I  have 
in  my  hand,  and  the  other  agrees.  If  one  said  :  Sell  me  for  this  amount, 
title  is  acquired,  and  nevertheless  the  law  of  fraud  applies.  According  to 
whom  do  we  write  in  our  legal  papers.  With  an  utensil  which  is  fit  to  con- 
firm with  ?  Biblically,  money  paid  gives  title  ;  why,  then,  was  it  said  that 
drawing  is  needed  ?  According  to  Abayi,  he  who  retracts  ought  to  be  noti- 
fied that  he  will  be  punished  by  Heaven,  and  according  to  Rabha  he  shall 


viii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

be  cursed.  It  happened  that  one  gave  money  for  poppy,  meanwhile  the 
poppy  increased  in  price.  Tabuth  or  Samuel  b.  Zutra  was  such  kind  of  a  man 
that  he  would  not  change  his  word,  even  if  all  the  goods  of  the  world  were 
delivered  to  him,  and  he  told  :  The  above  case  of  poppy  happened  to  me. 
Cheating,  which  according  to  law  makes  the  sale  null  and  void,  is  in  case 
where  the  sum  of  which  he  was  cheated  counts  four  silver  dinars.  Until 
what  time  the  retraction  may  take  place  ?  The  law  of  fraud  applies  to  the 
buyer  as  well  as  to  the  seller,  to  a  private  as  well  as  to  a  merchant.  There 
is  no  cheating  concerning  a  specialist  who  knows  the  value.  If  one  is  doing 
business  with  his  neighbor  in  trust.  (See  foot-note,  p.  127).  How  much  less 
of  the  quantity  of  a  sala  should  be  effaced,  that  the  law  of  fraud  could  not  be 
claimed  ?    The  prescribed  quantity  for  cheating  is  four  silver  dinars  to  each 

sala, 1 10-132 

MiSHNAS  VI.  TO  X.  There  are  five  fifth  parts  which  must  be  added  to 
the  principal  amount.  The  things  to  which  the  law  of  cheating  does  not 
apply.  Does  the  law  of  cheating  apply  to  a  hire  ?  The  laws  of  usury  and 
cheating  apply  only  to  commoners,  not  to  the  sanctuary.  A  gratuitous 
bailee  does  not  swear.  If  one  bought  wheat  and  sowed  it  in  the  field,  how 
is  the  law  ?  If  there  was  fraud  to  more  than  a  sixth  of  the  value,  how  is  the 
law  ?  As  cheating  is  prohibited  in  buying  or  selling,  so  it  is  in  words. 
Cheating  in  words  is  more  rigorous  than  cheating  in  money.  To  what  thing 
do  the  western  people  pay  more  attention  ?  One  should  always  be  careful 
with  the  honor  of  his  wife.  The  noted  legend  of  the  oven  of  the  Akhina. 
The  law  is  not  in  the  heavens.  We  do  not  care  for  a  heavenly  voice.  Regard- 
ing cheating,  there  are  three  negative  commandments.  One  must  not 
mix  together  fruits  from  two  separate  fields.  A  merchant  may  buy  grain 
from  five  barns,  and  place  it  in  one  storeroom.  The  embellishment  of  arti- 
cles which  are  to  be  sold  is  forbidden,  132-144 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE 
GATE). 


CHAPTER   I. 


RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  REGARDING  FOUND  ARTICLES,  DOCU- 
MENTS, ANIMALS,  AND  IF  ONE  APPOINTS  A  MESSENGER  TO 
PICK    UP    A    FOUND    ARTICLE. 

MISHNA  /. :  Two  persons,  who  hold  a  garment,  and  each  of 
them  claims  that  he  has  found  it,  or  that  the  whole  belongs  to 
him,  (in  such  a  case)  each  of  them  shall  take  an  oath  that  no  less 
than  a  half  belongs  to  him,  and  then  its  value  shall  be  divided. 
If,  however,  one  claims  the  whole  and  the  other  half  of  it,  then 
the  oath  for  the  first  must  be  for  no  less  than  three  quarters,  and 
for  the  second  no  less  than  a  quarter,  and  it  is  to  be  divided 
accordingly.  The  same  is  the  case  with  an  animal,  if  both  are 
riding ;  or,  if  one  is  riding  and  one  'eading,  each  of  them  must 
take  an  oath  that  no  less  than  a  half  belongs  to  him,  if  both  claim 
for  the  whole,  and  so  they  divide.  If,  however,  there  are  wit- 
nesses, or  they  admit  the  fact,  then  it  is  to  be  divided  without 
any  oath. 

GEMARA :  Why  is  it  stated  :  "  Each  of  them  claims  he  has 
found  it,  or  the  whole  garment  belongs  to  him  " — is  not  one  of 
them  sufficient  ?  R.  Papa,  according  to  others  R.  Shimi  bar  Ashi 
or  Kadi,  says  :  The  first  part  speaks  about  a  found  article,  and  the 
last  one  about  a  transaction,  and  both  cases  are  necessary.  For 
when  the  case  of  a  found  only,  only  a  found  article  should  be  stated, 
one  may  say  that  the  rabbis  ordered  an  oath,  because  it  is  only 
a  found  article,  of  which  each  of  them  may  say :  My  neighbor 
would  lose  nothing  even  if  I  claim  the  whole  and  get  half  of  it, 
which  is  not  the  case  in  a  transaction  (as  the  buyer  paid  for  it, 
and  if  it  would  not  be  necessary  for  him  he  would  not  do  so).. 
On  the  other  hand,  if  the  last  part  only  should  be  stated,  one 
may  say :    "  The  rabbis   have   given  an  oath  to  both  of  them. 


2  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

because  each  of  them  may  say  :  As  the  same  money  my  neighbor 
claims  that  he  has  given,  I  also  have  given,  therefore  I  have  a 
right  to  keep  it  for  myself,  and  my  neighbor  shall  go  to  the  trouble 
to  buy  another,  which  is  not  the  case  with  a  found  article,  and 
therefore  in  the  former  case  an  oath  would  not  be  ordered." 
Hence  both  cases  are  necessary. 

"  Transaction  !  "  Let  us  see  from  whom  the  money  was  taken. 
The  case  was,  that  both  paid  the  money,  one  with  the  consent  of 
the  seller  and  the  other  against  the  seller's  will,  but  the  seller 
does  not  recollect  to  which  of  them  he  had  given  the  consent 
(hence  the  order  of  the  oaths). 

Shall  we  assume  that  our  Mishna  is  not  in  accord  with  Ben 
Nanas,  who  says :  "  An  oath  cannot  be  ordered  to  both,  as  one 
of  them  would  surely  swear  falsely"?  The  Mishna  can  be  ex- 
plained even  in  accord  with  Ben  Nanas,  as  he  speaks  of  a  case 
where  one  of  them  would  surely  swear  falsely.  Here,  in  case  of 
a  found  article,  it  may  happen  that  both  of  them  has  picked  it  tip 
at  the  same  time  ? 

Shall  we  then  assume  that  our  Mishna  is  not  in  accord  with 
Symmachus,  who  says  :  "  That  money  which  is  doubtful  is  to 
be  divided  without  an  oath  "  ?  (See  First  Gate,  page  3.)  With 
whom,  then,  is  the  Mishna  in  accord  ?  With  the  rabbis  who  are 
the  opponents  of  Symmachus  ;  do  they  not  say  that  it  is  al- 
ways incumbent  on  the  plaintiff  to  bring  evidence?  What  com- 
parison is  there  ?  In  the  case  where  one  of  them  is  a  plaintiff, 
and  the  other  a  defendant,  the  rabbis  say  that  it  is  incumbent  on 
the  plaintiff  to  bring  evidence.  Here,  however,  when  they  both 
held  a  thing,  they  ordered  an  oath.  But  according  to  the  theory 
of  Symmachus,  even  in  the  case  where  there  is  a  plaintiff  and 
defendant,  it  is  to  be  divided  without  an  oath.  Moreover,  here, 
as  both  are  holding  it,  it  can  be  said  that  even  Symmachus 
would  agree  with  our  Mishna,  as  the  oath  mentioned  is  rabbinical 
only,  for  R.  Johanan  says  that  the  oath  is  an  enactment  of  the 
sages  to  prevent  one  from  going  out  and  taking  hold  of  his 
neighbor's  property,  claiming  it  as  his. 

At  any  rate,  our  Mishna  is  not  in  accord  with  R.  Jose,  who 
says  (Chapter  HL,  Mishna  106):  "If  so  is  the  case,  what  can 
the  defrauder  lose  ?  therefore,  the  whole  amount  must  be  depos- 
ited until  there  will  be  evidence."  Let  us  then  see  if  our  Mishna 
can  be  explained  in  accord  with  the  rabbis,  the  opponents  of 
R.  Jose,  who  say  that  the  part  in  doubt  should  be  deposited 
"  until  Elijah  will  come."     Is  not  the  case  in  our  Mishna  similar 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA    (MIDDLE   GATE).  3 

to  the  case  there,  as  both  claims  are  doubtful  ?  What  comparison 
is  it? 

It  does  not  belong  to  both  parties,  but  to  one  of  them  ;  the 
rabbis  ordered  it  should  be  deposited  "  until  Elijah  will  come." 
Here,  however,  there  is  a  possibility  that  the  article  belongs  to 
both  parties,  so  they  ordered  an  oath ;  but  R.  Jose  maintained 
that  even  where  it  is  certain  that  both  parties  have  a  share  in  the 
money  in  question,  he  nevertheless  decided  that  the  money 
should  be  deposited  "  until  Elijah  will  come."  Moreover,  here, 
it  is  probable  that  the  article  belongs  to  one  party.  (Therefore 
our  Mishna  is  in  accord  with  the  rabbis  and  not  with  R.  Jose.) 

According  to  both  the  rabbis  and  R.  Jose,  how  should  the 
following  Mishna  be  understood  :  "  A  storekeeper  upon  his  credit- 
book  (if  it  is  found  that  he  has  given  something  by  the  order  of 
the  employer  to  his  working-men,  and  they  deny  having  received 
anything),  both  take  an  oath,  and  collect  the  money  from  the 
employer  "  ?  Now,  one  of  them  has  surely  sworn  falsely ;  why 
should  it  not  be  here  the  same  also,  that  the  money  should  be 
collected  from  the  employer  and  deposited  "  until  Eijah  will 
come,"  as  one  of  them  is  surely  a  defrauder?  It  can  be  said 
there  is  another  reason.  The  storekeeper  may  say  to  the  em- 
ployer :  I  have  followed  your  order,  and  I  have  nothing  to  do 
with  your  working-men,  whom  I  would  not  believe  even  with  an 
oath,  and  it  was  your  fault  that  you  did  not  order  me  to  give  the 
goods  only  in  the  presence  of  witnesses  or  to  take  a  receipt  from 
him.  The  working-man  can  say  to  the  employer :  You  must  pay 
me  for  my  work,  and  I  have  nothing  to  do  with  your  storekeeper, 
whom  I  would  not  believe  even  with  an  oath  ;  and  therefore  both 
collect  the  money  from  the  employer  after  they  have  sworn. 

R.  Hyya  taught :  If  the  plaintiff  says  that  the  defendant 
owes  him  a  hundred  zuz  and  the  defendant  denies  owing  him 
anything,  and  witnesses,  however,  testify  that  they  only  know 
that  he  owes  him  fifty,  he  must  give  him  fifty,  and  take  an  oath 
for  the  remainder.  The  reason  is  that  the  admission  of  the  de- 
fendant himself  shall  not  be  stronger  than  the  testimony  of  wit- 
nesses,* and  this  I  have  concluded  by  drawing  an  a  fortiori  con- 
clusion, and  also  our  Mishna  supports  me  by  its  statement : 
"  When  two  are  holding  a  garment,"  etc.     We  are  the  witnesses 


*  The  law  is  that  if  one  denies  all,  there  must  be  no  oath,  biblically  ;  but  if  there 
is  an  admission  in  part,  a  biblical  oath  must  be  taken  for  the  remainder.  If,  however, 
there  are  witnesses,  although  he  denies,  he  must  pay  the  full  amount. 


4  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

that  each  of  them  holds  what  he  claims  to  be  his,  without  any 
admission  by  his  opponent,  and,  nevertheless,  it  is  stated  that 
each  of  them  must  take  an  oath. 

Why  was  it  necessary  to  draw  an  a  fortiori  conclusion  for 
the  above  statement  ?  Lest  one  say  that  a  biblical  oath  is  given 
only  when  there  is  an  admission  in  part  from  the  defendant, 
and  the  reason  is,  as  Rabba  declared  elsewhere :  "  Why  do  the 
Scriptures  decide  that  one  who  admits  to  a  part  of  the  claim 
must  take  an  oath  ?  Because  usually  one  is  not  so  bold  as  to 
deny  the  whole  in  the  face  of  his  creditor,  and  therefore  he  ad- 
mits partly,  even  had  he  intended  to  do  so  before  his  creditor 
appeared,  and  therefore  he  only  denies  a  part  of  it ;  and  it  may 
be  that  even  their  denial  is  only  to  gain  time  for  the  investiga- 
tion, thinking  that  in  the  meantime  he  will  get  cash,  and  will 
pay  the  whole  claim ;  and,  therefore,  the  Scripture  prescribes  an 
oath  in  such  a  case,  which  is  to  be  believed,  that  a  man  with  such 
intention  will  refuse  to  swear  falsely,  and  would  rather  admit 
the  debt  of  the  whole  amount.  But  in  case  he  denies,  and  wit- 
nesses testify  against  him,  in  which  case  the  intention  above  can- 
not be  supposed?  No  oath  is  prescribed,  he  must  pay  according 
to  the  testimony  of  the  witnesses,  and  shall  be  acquitted.  There- 
fore it  was  necessary  for  him  (R.  Hyya)  to  deduce  it,  by  drawing 
an  a  fortiori  zoViQ\.\x^\on,  as  follows: 

The  admission  from  his  own  mouth,  which  does  not  cause  fine, 
nevertheless  causes  an  oath ;  witnesses  who  cause  fine,  so  much 
the  more  they  should  cause  an  oath.* 

Let  us  see,  then,  what  R.  Hyya  means  in  saying  that  he  has 
support  from  our  Mishna?  How  can  the  case  in  the  Mishna  be 
compared  to  his  case?  In  the  case  of  R.  Hyya  the  creditor  had 
witnesses,  and  the  borrower  had  none  at  all ;  then  if  he  would 
have  witnesses  who  would  testify  that  he  owes  him  nothing,  R. 
Hyya  certainly  would  not  order  an  oath.  But  in  our  Mishna,  as 
we  are  witnesses  for  one  party,  we  are  also  witnesses  for  the  other 
party,  and  nevertheless  an  oath  is  ordered.  (Consequently  the 
Mishna  orders  an  oath,  not  because  of  admission  in  part,  in  which 
case  a  biblical  oath  would  be  necessary,  but  only  a  rabbinical  oath 
as  stated  above.)  Therefore,  if  it  was  taught  that  R.  Hyya  had 
said  he  had  a  support  from  our  Mishna,  it  was  said  in  regard  to 


*  The  text  here  is  very  complicated,  and  Rashi  and  Tosphat  with  great  difficulty 
interpret  it  differently.  It  seems  to  us,  however,  that  our  explanation  is  the  exact 
sense  of  the  text. 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE   GATE).  5 

another  statement  of  his  as  follows :  "  If  the  plaintiff  claims  a 
hundred  and  the  defendant  says  only  fifty,  and  here  they  are,  he 
is,  however,  obliged  to  take  an  oath  upon  the  remainder.  Why 
so  ?  Because  "  here  they  are"  is  considered  an  admission  in  part ; 
that  is,  although  "  here  they  are  "  means  that  ''your  claim  is  now 
settled,  and  I  owe  you  nothing,"  it  is  nevertheless  considered  an 
admission  in  part.  And  the  support  of  the  Mishna  is  this:  As 
they  both  hold  the  garment,  we  are  witnesses  that  each  of  them 
says,  "  Take  what  you  hold,  and  the  remainder  is  mine,"  and  this 
is  equal  to  the  claim  "  here  they  are,"  and  nevertheless  an  oath 
is  ordered. 

R.  Shesheth,  however,  says  :  "  When  he  says,  '  here  they  are,' 
there  is  no  oath.  Why?  Because  '  here  they  are  '  is  considered 
as  if  the  money  is  already  in  the  hands  of  the  plaintiff.  Conse- 
quently the  claim  for  the  other  fifty  is  denied  entirely  without 
any  admission."  But  according  to  R.  Shesheth  the  decision  of 
our  Mishna  would  be  embarrassing  to  him.  He  may  say  that 
the  oath  in  our  Mishna  is  only  an  enactment  of  the  sages. 

But  does  not  R.  Hyya  also  agree  that  so  it  is?  Yea,  but  if 
"  here  they  are  "  is  equal  as  an  admission  in  part,  and  the  oath 
is  ordered  biblically,  the  rabbis  have  the  right  to  order  an  oath 
similar  to  the  biblical  one.  According  to  R.  Shesheth's  theory, 
however,  that  in  such  a  case  no  biblical  oath  should  be  ordered 
at  all,  how  could  the  rabbis  arrange  an  oath  which  has  no  analogy 
in  the  Scripture  ? 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following  Boraitha  :  If  there 
was  a  note  for  Sellahs  or  Dinars  without  number,  the  lender 
claims  five  and  the  borrower  says  three,  there  must  be  an  oath, 
because  the  third  one  by  the  borrower  is  an  admission  in  part. 
As  he  could  say  that  the  plurality  in  the  note  means  only  two, 
so  is  the  decree  of  R.  Simeon  Elazar.  R.  Aqiba,  however,  says : 
"  The  admission  of  the  third  one  is  to  be  considered  as  if  he  had 
returned  a  lost  thing,  and  he  is  acquitted.  Now,  how  the  case 
would  be  if  he  would  say  only  two  (which  would  not  be  denied 
after  the  note  is  recognized),  an  oath  would  be  ordered,  even  ac- 
cording to  R.  Aqiba's  theory.  Is  not  the  note  (which  can  be  col- 
lected from  his  real  estate)  considered  as  "  here  they  are,"  and, 
nevertheless,  an  oath  would  be  necessary  ?  Infer  then  from  this 
that  such  is  the  law  with  all  claims  which  are  defended  with 
"  here  they  are." 

Nay,  it  can  be  said  that  even  when  he  admits  only  two,  there 
is  no  oath,   and  the  expression  "  three "   is  mentioned  only  to 


6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

deny  the  theory  of  R.  Simeon,  who  takes  three  for  an  admission 
in  part,  for  which  the  law  prescribes  an  oath.  And  so  also  seems 
to  be  common  sense  that,  according  to  R.  Aqiba,  even  if  he  would 
say  only  two,  he  is  free  from  an  oath.  Then  if  not  so,  how  can  he 
make  him  free,  when  he  admits  three?  It  could  be  a  trick  on 
his  part  to  admit  three  and  to  be  free  from  any  obligation,  as  he 
would  know  that  when,  if  he  should  claim  only  two,  an  oath 
would  be  given  to  him.  Infer  from  this,  that  so  it  is.  But  if  it 
is  so,  then  it  contradicts  R.  Hyya,  who  says  that  "  here  they 
are  "  does  not  prevent  an  oath.  Nay,  here  in  our  case  of  the 
note,  "  here  they  are  "  is  not  the  reason,  but  because  the  note  is  a 
support  to  his  assertion,  or  it  can  be  explained  the  note  implies  a 
mortgage  on  real  estate,  and  there  is  no  oath  in  a  case  where  real 
estate  is  claimed. 

Come  and  hear  (another  objection):  We  learned  that  the 
father  of  R.  Aputriki  had  taught  in  the  first  case  of  R.  Hyya  just 
the  reverse  of  R.  Hyya,  viz. :  "  If  one  claims  a  hundred,  and  the 
other  denies  all,  and  there  are  witnesses  for  fifty,  lest  one  say 
there  should  be  given  an  oath,  because  the  testimony  of  the 
witnesses  should  be  considered  as  an  admission  in  part ;  there- 
fore it  is  written  [Ex.  xxii.  8]  :  '  For  any  manner  of  lost  things, 
of  which  he  can  say,  this  it  is,'  which  means  the  liability  is  only 
when  he  admits  with  his  own  mouth,  but  not  by  the  testimony 
of  witnesses."  (Hence  it  contradicts  R.  Hyya.)  How  can  you 
contradict  R.  Hyya  with  a  Boraitha  ?  R.  Hyya  is  a  Tana,  who 
is  authorized  to  differ  with  it.  But  is  not  the  Boraitha  sup- 
ported by  a  verse  of  Scripture  ?  R.  Hyya  may  say  that  the 
verse  in  question  is  needed  for  the  law  of  an  admission  in  part. 
And  the  Tana  of  the  above  Boraitha  may  say  that  "  this  it  is  " 
has  one  word  which  is  superfluous.  We  therefore  deduce  from 
both  of  them,  viz. :  that  to  an  admission  in  part  an  oath  is  neces- 
sary, and  that  no  oath  is  given  when  witnesses  testify. 

There  was  a  shepherd  to  whom  cattle  was  given  always  in  the 
presence  of  witnesses.  It  happened,  however,  one  day,  that  it 
was  given  to  him  without  witnesses,  and  he  denied,  and  witnesses 
testified  that  he  had  eaten  two  of  them.  Said  R.  Zera :  "  If  it 
is  to  agree  with  the  first  case  of  R.  Hyya,  he  must  take  an  oath 
for  the  others."  Said  Abayi  to  him :  "  Even  should  we  agree, 
could  then  an  oath  be  given  to  him  ?  Is  he  not  a  robber  (to 
whom  an  oath  is  not  given)?"  Rejoined  R.  Zera  :  "I  mean  to 
say,  that  an  oath  should  be  given  to  the  plaintiff  that  he  had 
delivered  to  him  such,  and  he  may  collect  the  money." 


TRACT   BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE   GATE).  7 

But  even  if  we  do  not  agree  with  R.  Hyya's  decision,  we 
should  nevertheless  give  him  a  rabbinical  oath,  according  to  R. 
Na'hman's  enactment  concerning  the  following  Mishna :  "  When 
one  claims  hundred  apd  the  other  denies,  he  is  free."  Said  R, 
Na'hman  :  "  He  is  free  from  a  biblical  oath,  but  he  must  take  a 
rabbinical  oath  ?  "  Nay,  that  an  oath  which  cannot  be  given  to 
the  defendant  the  plaintiff  shall  swear,  etc.,  is  also  only  an  enact- 
ment of  the  sages,  and  an  enactment  to  an  enactment  cannot  be 
made. 

"  Why,"  said  Abaye,  "  he  is  a  robber  ?  Even  if  a  shepherd 
only,  an  oath  could  not  be  given  to  him  according  to  R.  Jehudah, 
who  says  :  *  A  shepherd  who  is  not  known  to  be  trustworthy, 
is  unfit  as  a  witness? '"  This  presents  no  difficulty.  If  the  shep- 
herd keeps  his  own  cattle,  he  is  not  fit  for  an  oath ;  but  if  he  keeps 
the  cattle  of  others,  he  is  fit ;  because  if  it  would  not  be  so,  how 
could  we  confide  the  cattle  to  a  shepherd?  Is  it  not  written 
[Lev.  xix.  14]  :  "  Nor  put  a  stumblingblock  before  the  blind." 
But  we  go  with  the  rule :  A  man  will  not  sin  for  others*  benefit. 

''Each  of  them  swears^'  ^Iz.  What  shall  the  oath  contain? 
The  part  that  he  claims  to  have  in  it,  and  he  swears  that  he  has 
half  of  it,  or  he  swears  that  he  has  not  less  than  a  half  in  it  ?  (The 
difference  between  the  two  expressions  is  this.  In  case  he  swears 
to  an  affirmative  statement,  if  he  has  not,  he  has  sworn  falsely. 
When,  however,  he  swears  to  the  negative  statement,  the  oath 
is  not  false,  even  if  he  has  nothing,  as  he  only  swears  that  he  has 
not  in  it  less  than  so  and  so,  and  in  case  he  has  nothing  in  it,  he 
has  not  sworn  falsely.  The  expression  in  the  Mishna,  however, 
is  in  the  negative,  and  therefore  the  question.)  Said  R.  Huna : 
"  He  swears  both.  '  I  have  some  claim  in  it,  and  not  less  than  a 
half.'  "  But  why  not  in  an  affirmative  manner:  "  I  swear  that  I 
a  half  belongs  to  me  "?  Then  he  would  contradict  his  claim  that 
the  whole  garment  belongs  to  him.  And  even  in  the  negative 
manner,  does  he  not  contradict  his  claim  ?  If  he  says  :  "  Accord- 
ing to  my  knowledge,  the  whole  is  mine,  but  at  all  events  I  swear 
that  at  least  no  less  than  a  half  belongs  to  me.  But,  after  all,  as 
they  both  hold  the  garment  and  the  oath  is  ordered  to  both 
equally,  why  the  oath  at  all  ?  Let  them  divide  without  an  oath  ?  " 
Said  R.  Johanan :  "  This  oath  is  not  biblically  at  all,  it  is  only  an 
enactment  of  the  sages,  for  the  purpose  that  one  shall  not  take 
possession  of  his  neighbor's  property,  claiming  that  it  is  his,  or 
he  has  a  share  in  it ;  therefore  the  oath.  But  if  he  is  suspected 
in  the  case  of  money,  why  should  he  be  trusted  in  an  oath  ?  " 


8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Nay,  the  "  theory  of  because "  (because  he  is  suspected  in  the 
case  of  money,  should  he  be  also  suspected  in  an  oath  ?)  we  do 
not  act  upon.  And  a  support  to  it  we  can  find  in  the  Scripture, 
which  ordered  an  oath  in  an  admission  in  part ;  and  if  it  would  be 
customary  that  whoever  is  suspected  in  a  case  of  money,  should 
be  also  suspected  of  swearing  falsely,  why  then  the  oath  ?  This 
above  support,  however,  can  be  dismissed  thus :  In  the  case  of 
an  admission  in  part,  there  is  no  suspicion  at  all.  The  defend- 
ant merely  had  not  the  whole  amount  in  cash,  but  only  a  part  of 
it,  and  he  taught :  I  will  admit  now  only  the  part  I  have  in  cash, 
and  the  remainder  I  will  give  afterwards.  And  it  is  as  Rabba 
stated  before,  p.  238.  This  can  also  be  proved  from  the  state- 
ment of  R.  Idi  bar  Abin  in  the  name  of  Hisda :  "  One  who  denies 
falsely  a  money  loan  is  nevertheless  qualified  to  be  a  witness, 
but  whoever  denies  a  deposit  (which  was  given  to  him  only  to 
take  care  of,  and  he  falsely  denies  it)  is  disqualified  to  be  a  wit- 
ness." But  why  shall  we  not  say  if  he  denies  a  deposit,  that 
merely  he  could  not  find  it  then,  and  therefore  he  denies  it,  in- 
tending, however,  to  return  it  when  it  will  be  found  ?  He  is  dis- 
qualified only  in  the  case  where  there  are  witnesses  that  the 
deposit  was  in  his  house  when  he  denied  it,  and  he  had  knowl- 
edge of  it,  or  the  witnesses  testified  that  he  was  holding  it  in  his 
hand.  But  did  not  R.  Shesheth  say :  "  For  the  following  three 
things  :  (a)  That  I  have  not  neglected  it,  (b)  I  have  not  made 
use  of  it,  and  (c)  I  am  positive  it  is  not  under  my  control,  the 
oath  was  given  "  ?  (This  is  the  case  of  a  gratuitous  bailee,  who  is 
not  liable  when  it  is  stolen.)  Now,  why  then  should  he  be  trusted 
with  the  oath  ?  Let  "  the  theory  of  because  "  he  is  suspected  in 
a  case  of  money,  he  should  also  be  suspected  in  an  oath,  also  be 
applied  here.  Say,  then,  that  such  a  theory  we  do  not  practise. 
Abayi,  however,  says  that  the  reason  for  the  statement  in  our 
Mishna,  to  make  them  both  swear,  is  not  as  R.  Johanan  explains, 
because  in  such  a  case  an  oath  would  not  be  trusted  to  him,  but 
we  suppose  that  his  claim  is  because  he  has  an  old  loan  of  money, 
which  is  forgotten  by  the  other,  and  therefore  he  takes  possession 
of  the  garment  claiming  it  is  his,  because  in  reality  all  personal 
property  is  a  security  for  the  loan.  If  it  is  so,  let  them  take  the 
garment  without  an  oath  ?  We  are  not  supposing  a  certain  loan, 
but  that  he  is  in  doubt  about  it.  But  when  he  is  doubtful, 
and  he  nevertheless  takes  possession  of  his  neighbor's  property, 
let  him  be  suspected,  that  he  will  also  swear  in  such  a  case  ?  Said 
R.  Shesheth,  the  son  of  R.  Idi :  Usually  men  restrain  themselves 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  9 

from  taking  an  oath  on  a  doubtful  thing,  although  they  are 
not  averse  to  taking  possession  of  property  doubtfully,  because 
money  can  be  returned,  which  is  not  the  case  with  an  oath. 

R.  Sera  propounded  a  question :  "  When  one  of  the  two 
holders  overcame  the  other  and  took  it  away,  what  is  the  law  ?  " 
Let  us  see  how  was  the  case  ?  If  the  other  party  keeps  silence, 
then  he  admits  ;  and  if  he  objects,  what  more  could  he  do,  when 
his  opponent  is  stronger  than  he  ?  The  case  was,  that  previously 
he  was  silent,  and  afterwards  he  objected,  and  the  question  is : 
Shall  we  assume  that  because  he  was  silent  he  has  admitted,  or 
perhaps  the  reason  he  kept  silent  previously  was  because  it  was 
done  in  the  presence  of  the  rabbis,  who  could  testify  in  the  case? 
Said  R.  Na'hman :  Come  and  hear  (in  addition  to  our  Mishna, 
there  is  a  Boraitha,  as  follows) :  "  All  this  is  said  only  when  both 
are  holding  the  garment ;  but  if  only  one  holds  it,  and  the  other 
claims  the  ownership  of  it,  the  rule  that  the  plaintiff  is  to  bring 
evidence  applies  here  also."  Now,  let  us  see  ;  if  one  would  claim 
ownership  of  personal  property  which  is  in  the  possession  of  an- 
other, the  statement  of  the  Boraitha  would  be  entirely  superfluous, 
as  it  is  self-evident.  We  must  say,  then,  that  the  case  was  as  R. 
Zera  stated  it.  Nay ;  this  can  be  explained  as  follows :  They 
appear  before  the  court  when  one  took  possession  of  the  whole 
garment,  and  the  other  put  only  his  hand  upon  a  small  piece  of  it. 
In  such  a  case  an  oath  is  necessary,  even  according  to  the  theory 
of  Symmachus,  who  says  that  doubtful  money  is  to  be  divided 
without  an  oath  ;  he  would  agree,  however,  in  this  case,  because 
the  laying  of  one's  hand  upon  a  piece  of  it  counts  for  nothing. 

If  the  law  were  that  of  one  overcome,  and  took  possession  in 
the  presence  of  the  court,  and  the  court  decided  that  it  should 
be  taken  away  from  him,  and  in  the  meantime  he  had  consecrated 
it,  there  is  no  question  but  that  such  an  act  at  that  time  cannot 
be  considered.  But  if  the  court  would  decide  to  leave  it  in  his 
possession,  should  he  have  overcome  the  other,  and  he  as  yet  not 
taking  possession  of  it,  consecrated  it,  what  is  the  law  ?  Shall  we 
say,  because  the  master  says  elsewhere :  "  The  consecration  by 
word  of  mouth  only  is  equivalent  to  delivering  to  a  common  per- 
son," in  our  case  shall  his  mere  word  of  mouth  be  considered  as 
equivalent  to  his  overcoming  and  taking  it  away  (and  then  the 
thing  is  certainly  consecrated),  or  perhaps  it  is  not  so,  because  it 
is  not  yet  in  his  possession,  and  it  is  written  [Lev.  xxiv.  14]  : 
"  And  if  a  man  sanctify  his  house,"  of  which  it  is  to  be  inferred 
that,  as  his  house  is  under  his  control,  so  he  can  consecrate  it,  so 


lo  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

everything  which  is  under  his  control,  but  not  otherwise,  can  be 
consecrated,  and  in  our  case  it  is  not  yet  under  his  control? 
Come  and  hear :  There  was  a  bath-house  about  which  two  parties 
quarrelled,  each  of  them  claiming  it  was  his  property.  Then  one 
of  them  arose  and  consecrated  it.  And  R.  Hanania  and  R. 
Aushia  and  other  rabbis  did  not  use  this  bath  any  more.  And  R. 
Aushia  said  to  Rabba  :  "  When  you  go  to  see  R.  Hisda  in  Kopri, 
question  him  about  this  case."  When  Rabba  went  to  Kopri,  he 
passed  by  Sura,  and  he  questioned  R.  Hamnuna,  and  the  latter 
answered  him  thus  :  It  is  decided  in  a  Mishna  [Thaharoth,  Chap. 
IV.,  12],  which  states :  "  If  there  is  a  doubt  about  a  first-born,  be  it 
of  a  human  being  or  of  an  animal,  clean  ones  (which  are  allowed 
to  be  eaten)  or  unclean  ones,  the  rule  that  the  plaintiff  must  bring 
evidence  is  applied  to  it."  And  a  Boraitha,  in  an  addition  to  this 
Mishna,  states :  "  They  are  nevertheless  prohibited  from  shearing 
their  wool  and  to  use  them  for  labor."  Now,  it  is  certain  that  if 
the  priest  took  it  away,  the  court  would  not  compel  him  to  return 
it,  because  then  he  would  be  the  defendant,  and  the  other  party 
must  bring  evidence.  And  still,  even  when  the  priest  did  not  yet 
take  it  away,  it  is  said  that  it  must  not  be  used  for  labor,  as  stated 
above.  (Hence  we  see  that  even  when  it  is  doubtful,  it  is  never- 
theless consecrated.)  Rejoined  Rabba :  "  You  compare  this  with 
the  consecration  of  a  first-born  !  There  is  a  difference,  as  its  con- 
secration comes  by  itself  without  being  consecrated  by  a  human 
being,  and  therefore  it  must  be  used  for  labor,  no  matter  under 
whose  control  it  is." 

But  what  is  the  law  in  the  above  case  of  the  bath-house,  after 
all  ?  Come  and  hear :  R.  Hyya  bar  Abin  said  :  "  A  similar  case 
happened  to  R.  Hisda,  and  he  questioned  R.  Huna,  and  his 
decision  was  based  upon  R.  Na'hman's  following  decision :  That 
such  property  which  must  be  replevined  by  the  court,  even  if  it  is 
consecrated  by  one  of  the  parties,  it  is  not  holy."  But  how  is 
it  if  it  could  be  replevined  ?  The  consecration  would  be  valid, 
although  he  did  not  as  yet  take  possession  thereof.  Did  not  R. 
Johanan  say :  "  If  one  has  robbed  a  thing,  and  the  owner  has  not 
yet  resigned  the  hope  to  regaining  it,  it  cannot  be  consecrated 
by  one  of  them  ?  (  See  First  Gate,  page  155.)  Do  you  think 
the  bath-house  in  question  was  a  movable  property,  to  which  the 
rule  that  the  plaintiff  must  bring  evidence  applies?  This  was 
a  real  estate,  that,  if  he  can  replevin  it  by  the  decision  of  the 
court,  it  is  considered  as  if  it  were  already  under  his  control." 

R.  Thalifa  of  Palestine  taught  in  the  presence  of  R.  Abbahu  : 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  u 

"  If  two  appear  before  the  court,  both  holding  one  garment,  each  of 
them  gets  the  part  he  holds  in  his  hand,  and  the  remainder  they 
divide  equally."  Remonstrated  R.  Abbahu:  But  not  without  an 
oath.  (Asked  the  Gemara) :  If  it  is  so,  how  is  our  Mishna  to  be 
explained,  which  states:  It  shall  be  divided,  and  it  does  not 
state  that,  '  only  the  part  that  he  holds  in  his  hand.'  How  is  the 
case  to  be  explained  ?  Said  R.  Papa :  When  both  hold  only  the 
X^9X'^^  (the  fringes).  Said  R.  Mesharshias  :  "  Infer  from  this 
that  a  sudariuju,  which  usually  the  buyer  must  take  in  his  hand 
when  he  wishes  to  consummate  his  agreement,*  is  enough  when 
he  takes  in  his  hand  the  size  of  three  fingers  square,  as  this  piece 
which  he  holds  is  considered  as  if  cut  off,  and  the  expression 
[Ruth,  iv.  7],  "  and  gave  it  to  the  other,"  is  applied. 

Rabha  said :  "  The  case  in  our  Mishna,  even  when  the  gar- 
ment was  covered  with  gold  (on  some  places),  it  is  nevertheless  to 
be  divided.  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  Rabha  means  to  say  that 
the  gold  cover  was  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  garment.  But 
even  this  is  self-evident  ?  The  case  was  that  the  gold  covering 
was  nearer  to  the  hand  of  one  of  the  parties.  Lest  one  say,  that 
the  garment  shall  be  divided  so  that  the  gold  shall  remain  his 
share,  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  the  other  party  has  the  right  to 
demand  that  the  gold  shall  also  be  divided. 

The  rabbis  taught :  When  two  hold  a  note  (the  lender  and 
the  borrower),  the  lender  claims :  "  The  note  is  not  yet  paid,  but 
I  dropped  it,  and  it  was  found  by  the  borrower  " ;  and  the  bor- 
rower says  :  "  The  note  is  paid,  and  it  is  mine  now  " ;  the  note  is 
still  in  force,  if  the  signature  is  certified  to  by  the  court.  So  is 
the  decree  of  Rabbi.  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,  however,  says : 
"  The  value  of  it  must  be  divided."  If,  however,  the  note  falls 
into  the  hands  of  the  judge,  nobody  can  compel  him  to  give  it 
away.  R.  Jose,  however,  says :  "  Even  then  the  note  is  in  full 
force." 

The  master  says  :  "  It  is  in  force  if  the  signature,"  etc.  And 
what  is  then — does  the  lender  collect  the  whole  amount?  which 
contradicts  the  statement  of  our  Mishna.  Said  Rabba  in  the 
name  of  R.  Na'hman  :  "  If  the  note  is  approved  by  the  court,  all 
of  them  (the  Tanaim  who  are  named  in  the  above  Boraitha)  agree 

*  In  ancient  times,  and  even  now  in  our  day  in  those  places  where  the  Jews  use 
their  own  law,  all  transactions  and  even  marriage  contracts  are  conclusive  only  when 
the  buyer  or  the  husband  takes  in  his  hand  a  garment  which  belongs  to  the  other 
party  to  the  agreement.  This  is  called  Kabboloth  Kinyan,  which  means  the  taking 
possession  of  what  he  has  bought.    And  this  is  based  upon  the  Scripture  [Ruth,  iv.  7J. 


12  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

that  the  value  of  it  must  be  divided  (because  it  is  considered  as 
money  or  a  garment,  the  law  of  which  is  stated  in  our  Mishna). 
They  differ,  however,  when  the  note  is  not  approved  by  the  court. 
"  Rabbi  holds  that  even  when  the  borrower  admits  that  it  is  his 
note,  it  must  be  nevertheless  approved  by  the  court."  If  they 
do  so,  the  value  is  divided ;  but  if  they  do  not,  it  is  not  to  be 
divided.  Why  so  ?  Because  the  note  would  not  have  any  value 
whatever.  Who  then  makes  it  a  valid  note  ?  The  borrower,  by 
the  admission  of  his  signature,  but  in  the  same  time  he  claims 
that  the  note  is  paid.  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,  however,  is  of 
the  opinion  that  when  the  signature  is  admitted,  it  need  not  be 
approved  by  the  court,  and  therefore  it  has  a  positive  value,  which 
must  be  divided.  The  text  above  says :  "  If  it  falls  in  the  hands 
of  the  judge,"  etc.  Why?  Is  the  judge  not  a  human  being  as 
any  other?  Said  Rabha  :  "It  means  thus:  If  a  stranger  has 
found  a  note,  on  which  the  certification  of  the  court  is  to  be  seen, 
much  less  when  there  is  no  certification  by  the  court,  neither  of 
the  parties  mentioned  in  the  note  can  make  use  of  it.  (Therefore 
it  must  not  be  returned  to  any  of  them),  for  fear  that  either  it 
was  written  by  the  borrower,  and  he  has  not  received  any  money 
as  yet,  or  (if  it  was  certified  to  by  the  court)  perhaps  it  was  paid. 
But  R.  Jose  holds  that,  so  long  as  it  is  not  marked  that  the  note 
is  paid,  it  is  in  force,  and  there  is  no  fear  that  it  is  a  paid  note." 

R.  Elazar  said :  "  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  and  Rabbi  differ 
when  both  parties  hold  the  text  of  the  note,  or  both  hold  the 
signatures  of  the  witnesses  or  court ;  but  when  one  holds  the  text 
and  the  other  the  signatures,  each  of  them  may  keep  what  he 
holds."  R.  Johanan,  however,  said :  "  It  makes  no  difference 
what  they  hold,  it  must  always  be  divided."  But  is  it  not  stated  : 
"  Each  takes  what  he  holds  "  ?  The  case  was,  when  the  certifica- 
tion of  the  court  or  signatures  to  the  note  were  in  the  centre  of 
it.  If  it  is  so,  what  is  there  new  in  that  he  comes  to  tell  us?  The 
case  was,  that  the  signatures  were  nearer  to  one  than  to  the  other. 
(This  is  to  be  explained,  as  in  the  above  case,  when  covered  with 
gold.)  Said  R.  Aha  of  Diftha  to  Rabbina :  "  According  to  R. 
Elazar,  who  says  that  one  takes  the  text  and  one  the  signatures, 
for  what  purpose  do  the  parties  need  it,  to  use  it  as  a  cover  for 
a  utensil  ?  "  Rejoined  Rabbina  :  "  It  means  its  value,  namely  : 
The  difference  in  value  is  to  be  appraised  between  the  text  and 
the  signatures ;  and  the  explanation  is  thus  :  A  note  which  is 
certified  to  by  the  court,  and  the  date  is  stated,  has  more  value, 
as  such  can  be  collected  even  from  property  that  was  mortgaged 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  13 

after  the  date  of  certification,  which  is  not  the  case  with  a  note 
in  which  the  date  of  certification  is  not  stated.  In  this  case  the 
one  who  holds  the  certification  gets  the  amount,  which  is  as  mort- 
gaged after  the  date  of  certification.  And  also  the  case  in  which 
it  must  be  divided,  also  means  its  value ;  because  if  not  so,  how 
would  you  explain  the  case  in  our  Mishna,  where  the  garment  is 
to  be  divided  ?  Should  it  be  cut  in  pieces  and  damaged  ?  Surely 
not,  but  it  means  the  value  of  it  should  be  divided,  and  the  same 
is  the  case  here."  * 

Rami  bar  Hama  said :  "  From  the  decision  of  our  Mishna 
(that  when  both  claim  to  have  found  a  garment,  which  means 
that  both  picked  it  up,  both  are  entitled  to  it,  and  it  is  to  be 
divided),  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  if  one  sees  an  article  upon  the 
ground,  and  tells  his  companion  to  pick  it  up  for  him,  the  latter 
acquires  the  title.  For  if  it  could  be  borne  in  mind  that  it  is  not 
so,  the  case  of  our  Mishna  when  both  picked  it  up,  for  the  pur- 
pose that  they  should  get  title  to  it,  each  half  that  belongs  to 
one  of  them  was  also  picked  up  by  the  other,  and  consequently 
both  should  not  get  title  to  it,  and  it  should  still  be  considered 
as  it  is  still  upon  the  ground,  so  that  any  other  may  take  it  out 
of  their  hands,  and  acquire  title  for  himself.  Infer  from  this, 
that  so  it  is."  Rabha,  however,  says :  "  This  is  no  support  at 
all.  It  may  be  said  that  one  cannot  get  title  to  a  found  thing 
through  another,  even  when  the  other  does  not  intend  to  keep  it 
for  himself.  The  case  in  the  Mishna,  however,  is  different,  be- 
cause each  of  them  intends  to  get  title  to  it,  and  in  the  same  time, 
when  he  gets  title  for  himself,  he  acquires  title  to  the  other  half 
for  his  companion.  And  a  support  to  it  is  to  be  found  in  the 
following :  If  one  commands  his  messenger  he  shall  steal  some- 
thing, and  he  did  so,  the  sender  is  free ;  but  if  they  were  partners 
and  had  stolen  something  together,  both  are  liable.  And  why  ? 
Is  it  not  because  at  the  same  time  that  he  bears  the  guilt  for 
himself,  he  bears  it  also  for  his  neighbor?  "  Infer  from  this,  that 
so  it  is. 

The  same  said  again :  Now  that  we  are  coming  to  the  con- 
clusion that  we  can  use  "  the  theory  of  because,"  if  a  deaf  and 


*  The  text  of  this  page  is  so  complicated  that  it  is  difficult  to  explain  its  exact 
meaning,  for  we  cannot  understand  the  meaning  of  Rabbina's  explanation,  and  also 
the  difference  between  holding  the  text  of  a  note,  or  the  certification  of  the  same,  as 
the  court  certifies  only  that  the  text  is  legal.  We  could  not  find  any  one  of  the  com- 
mentators who  was  able  to  interpret  this  clearly.  Still,  according  to  our  method,  we 
:ould  not  omit  it,  and,  therefore,  we  have  translated  it  almost  literally. 


14  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

healthy  man  picked  up  a  found  article  together,  neither  of  them 
gets  title  to  it,  because,  as  the  deaf  man  cannot  get  title  for 
himself,  the  healthy  one  cannot  get  title  to  it.  And  lest  one 
say,  why  should  the  healthy  one  be  considered  worse  off  than  if 
he  too  were  deaf,  for  in  such  a  case  when  both  are  deaf,  both 
get  title  to  it  ?  The  reason  is,  that  in  such  a  case  it  is  only  an 
enactment  of  the  sages,  that  they  shall  not  come  to  blows ;  but 
here,  when  the  healthy  one  does  not  acquire  title,  the  deaf  one 
will  say :  "  If  the  healthy  one  does  not  get  title  of  it,  how  should 
I  get  title  to  it  ?  " 

^'  If  two  are  riding^  R.  Joseph  said  :  R.  Jehudah  told  me  as 
follows  :  "  I  have  heard  from  Mar  Samuel  two  things,  in  the  case 
when  one  is  riding  and  the  other  is  leading.  In  one  case  he  de- 
cided that  he  acquires  title  to  it  and  in  the  other  that  he  does 
not,  and  I  cannot  recollect  in  which  case  it  is  and  in  which  not." 
Let  us  see  what  was  the  case !  Shall  we  assume  that  if  one  was 
riding  on  a  found  animal  and  somebody  came  and  took  it  away 
from  him,  and  in  the  same  way  was  the  case  with  the  leader,  that 
one  was  leading  a  found  animal  and  somebody  took  it  away  from 
him,  is  it  possible  that  Samuel  could  declare  in  the  latter  case 
that  the  leader  did  not  get  title  to  it  ?  (The  law  is  that  leading 
gives  title.)  Consequently  if  Samuel  declared  in  one  case  th^at 
he  had  not,  it  is  riding  only.)  And  R.  Jehudah  would  not  doubt 
it.)  When,  however,  he  was  in  doubt,  it  must  be  the  following 
case,  when  one  was  a-riding,  and  the  other  was  the  leader  of  the 
same  animal,  and  in  this  case  Samuel  declared  that  one  had  ac- 
quired title  to  it  and  the  other  not ;  and  his  doubt  was  if  the 
rider  had  the  preference  because  he  held  the  animal,  or  the  leader 
because  the  animal  was  going  by  his  leading  ?  Said  R.  Joseph 
again  :  "  R.  Jehudah  told  me,  let  us  find  out  the  meaning  of  Sam- 
uel from  the  following  Mishna  :  If  one  was  sitting  in  a  wagon  of 
Kelaim  and  another  was  leading  it,  each  of  them  gets  the  forty 
stripes.  R.  Meir,  however,  sets  free  the  sitting  one  "  [Kelaim, 
VIII.,  4].  Samuel,  however,  changed  the  names  and  declared  that 
the  sages  made  him  free,  and  this  was  because  so  the  Halakha 
prevails. 

Infer  from  this  that,  riding,  one  does  not  acquire  title  even 
when  there  is  no  leader,  and  much  less  when  there  is  another  one 
who  leads  it.  Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph :  "  How  can  the  master 
decide  the  case  of  riding  from  the  case  of  sitting  ?  The  riding  one 
holds  the  bridle,  which  is  not  the  case  with  the  sitting  one."  And 
he  answered  :  "  So  taught  Idi :  A  bridle  does  not  give  any  title." 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE),  15 

It  was  taught,  also,  by  R.  Helbou  in  the  name  of  R.  Huna, 
that  a  bridle  gives  title  only  when  it  is  givenhand  to  hand  ;  a 
found  animal,  however,  or  if  it  was  from  the  inheritance  of  a 
proselyte  who  dies  without  heirs,  it  does  not.  For  what  purpose 
is  the  bridle  termed  Mussira  ?  *  Said  Rabha :  "  Idi  explained  to 
me  that  this  expression  was  used  because  it  contains  in  it  de- 
livery," And,  therefore,  if  his  neighbor  delivers  to  him  the 
bridle  of  the  animal,  he  has  bought  it,  and  he  acquires  title. 
Of  a  found  animal  or  of  the  inheritance  stated  above,  in  which 
there  is  no  one  who  can  deliver  it  to  him,  title  cannot  be 
acquired. 

An  objection  was  raised  from  our  Mishna.  "When  two  were 
riding  upon  an  animal,"  etc.,  according  to  whom  would  be  this 
statement  ?  Certainly  not  according  to  R.  Meir,  who  declared 
that  even  sitting  gives  title,  so  much  the  more  riding.  It  must 
be,  therefore,  that  it  is  according  to  the  rabbis,  from  which  it  is 
to  be  inferred  that  riding  gives  title.  Nay,  the  Mishna  may  treat 
of  a  case  when  the  riding  one  leads  the  animal  by  striking  her 
with  his  feet.  But  if  it  is  so,  he  is  the  leader?  Yea,  there  are 
two  kinds  of  leaders.  Lest  one  say,  that  the  riding  one  has  the 
preference,  because  he  does  both,  holds  and  leads  it,  the  Mishna 
therefore  comes  to  teach  us  that  both  are  equal. 

(Another  objection  was  raised.)  Come  and  hear:  "Two  who 
were  pulling  a  camel  or  leading  an  ass,  or  one  of  them  was  pulling 
and  the  other  leading,  by  such  an  act  the  title  is  recognized." 
R.  Jehudah,  however,  says :  "  Title  is  not  recognized  unless  one 
is  pulling  a  camel  or  leading  an  ass."  We  see,  then,  that  the 
Boraitha  states  "  pulling  and  leading  "  only,  but  not  riding.  The 
same  is  the  case  in  riding,  and  when  it  states  pulling  and  leading, 
it  is  only  to  deny  the  theory  of  R.  Jehudah,  who  says  that  the  title 
to  a  camel  is  acquired  by  pulling  and  an  ass  by  leading,  and  it 
teaches  that  title  is  acquired  even  in  the  reverse.  But  if  it  is  so, 
let  the  Boraitha  teach  both  when  two  were  pulling  or  leading 
either  a  camel  or  an  ass?  There  is  one  who  does  not  acquire 
title.  Some  say  that  pulling  an  ass  and  others  say  leading  a 
camel.  According  to  others,  the  objection  was  raised  from  the 
latter  part :  "  By  such  an  act,"  etc.  Does  not  this  expression  mean 
to  exclude  riding  ?  Nay,  it  means  to  exclude  when  the  reverse 
was  done.  If  so,  it  is  only  a  repetition  of  R.  Jehudah :  "  There 
is  a  difference  between  them,  that  with  both  mentioned  animals 

* ' '  Mossar  "  in  Hebrew  means  "  deliver." 


i6  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

one  of  the  two  things  in  question  does  not  give  title ;  some  say 
pulling  an  ass  and  others  say  leading  a  camel." 

Come  and  hear :  "  If  one  was  riding  upon  a  found  ass  and 
another  was  holding  the  bridle,  the  former  has  acquired  title 
of  the  ass,  and  the  other  one  of  the  bridle.  Hence  we  see  that 
riding  docs  give  title?  Here  is  also  the  case,  when  he  leads  it 
with  the  feet.  If  it  is  so,  why  does  he  not  acquire  title  to  the 
bridle  also  ?  Read  :  The  riding  one  acquired  title  to  the  ass  and 
half  of  the  bridle,  and  the  other  to  the  other  half  of  the  bridle. 
This  would  be  correct  if  the  riding  one  does  acquire  title  to  the 
bridle  by  picking  it  up  through  an  agent  intentionally ;  but  the  one 
who  was  only  holding  it,  why  should  he  have  any  right  ?  Read, 
then  :  The  one  has  acquired  title  to  the  ass  and  the  whole  bridle, 
and  the  other  only  to  the  piece  which  he  holds  in  his  hand.  What 
answer  is  this  ?  Even  if  you  would  say  that  when  an  agent  picks 
up  a  found  article  for  his  principal,  the  principal  acquires  title,  this 
is  only  in  the  case  when  the  agent  was  willing  to  do  so ;  but  here 
the  holder  of  the  bridle  picked  it  up  with  the  intention  to  keep  it 
for  himself,  and  when  you  say  that  he  has  not  any  right  for  him- 
self, how  should  he  acquire  title  for  the  other?  Said  R.  Ashi : 
'*  The  riding  one  has  a  right  to  the  ass  and  the  part  of  the  bridle 
which  is  upon  the  head  of  the  ass,  and  the  holder  of  it  the  piece 
which  he  holds  in  his  hand,  and  the  remainder  does  not  belong 
to  either  of  them."  Come  and  hear  (again) :  R.  Eliezer  says  that 
riding  gives  title  in  the  field  and  leading  in  the  city.  (Hence  we 
see  that  riding  gives  title?)  Here  is  also  meant  when  he  leads  it 
with  the  feet ;  then  it  is  leading  ?  There  are  two  kinds  of  leading, 
as  explained  above.  But  if  it  is  so,  why  does  not  riding  give  title 
even  in  the  city  ?  Said  R.  Kahna :  "  Because  it  is  not  customary 
for  men  to  ride  in  the  city."  Said  R.  Ashi  to  him :  "  According 
to  your  theory,  if  one  picked  up  a  Persian  coin  on  Sabbath,  which 
is  not  the  custom  with  Iraelites  on  Sabbath,  should  he  also  not 
acquire  title  to  it  ?  You  also  admit  that  such  an  act  is  good 
enough  to  give  title.  The  same  should  be  the  case  with  riding  in 
the  city?"  Therefore  we  must  say  that  R.  Eliezer  speaks  not  of 
a  found  article,  but  of  a  regular  sale,  at  which  the  buyer  was  told  : 
"  Go  and  acquire  title  in  it,  as  it  is  customary."  If  it  was  a  public 
ground  where  men  are  usually  riding,  title  is  acquired ;  and  if  he 
was  a  respectable  man  who  used  to  ride  even  in  the  city,  the  title 
is  acquired.  The  same  is  the  case  when  it  was  a  woman.  And 
(on  the  contrary,  if  he  was  a  commoner,  who  is  not  ashamed 
to  ride  anywhere,)  title  is  acquired.     (And  the  title  is  not  ac- 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  17 

quired  only  by  such  people  who  are  accustomed  to  riding  In  the 
city.) 

R.  Elazar  questioned  :  "  If  one  says  to  a  person :  Pull  this 
animal  and  acquire  title  on  the  utensils  which  have  been  placed 
upon  it,  what  is  the  law  ?  Does  the  pulling  of  the  cattle  suffice 
to  give  title  on  the  utensils  or  not  ?  "  Said  Rabha  :  "  Even  if  he 
should  say  to  him,  acquire  title  on  both  things  in  question,  would 
it  be  sufficient  for  the  utensils  also?  Is  not  the  animal  consid- 
ered as  a  movable  court,  which  does  not  give  title  in  the  utensils 
placed  on  it  ?  And  lest  one  say  it  means  when  the  animal  stops, 
is  there  not  a  rule  that  when  the  title  is  not  acquired  by  moving, 
it  does  not  even  when  it  was  standing  or  sitting?"  The  Hala- 
kha,  however,  prevails,  that  when  the  animal  was  tied.  Said 
R.  Papa  and  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Joshuah  to  Rabha:  "Ac- 
cording to  your  theory,  if  one  was  going  in  a  boat  and  fish  fell 
into  the  boat,  would  we  also  consider  the  boat  as  a  moving  court, 
that  title  in  the  fish  would  not  be  acquired  ?  "  And  he  answered : 
•*  The  boat  is  resting,  but  the  water  is  moving  and  bears  it  along." 

MISHNA  //. :  If  one  rides  on  an  animal  and  sees  an  article 
on  the  road,  and  says  to  his  neighbor.  Bring  it  to  me,  and  the 
latter  picks  it  up  and  says,  I  myself  have  acquired  title  to  it, 
he  has  done  right.  If,  however,  after  delivering  it  he  says:  I 
have  acquired  title  to  it  first,  his  claim  is  not  to  be  considered. 

GEMARA :  We  have  learned  a  Mishna  [Peah,  IV.,  9] :  If 
one  has  gathered  the  corner  tithe,  saying,  I  take  it  for  a  poor  so 
and  so,  R.  Eliezer  says  that  the  poor  ones  get  title  to  it.  The 
sages,  however,  say  that  he  may  give  it  to  the  first  poor  man  he 
may  meet.  Said  Ula  in  the  name  of  R.  Joshua  b.  Levy  :  "They 
differ  only  when  the  one  who  took  it  was  not  poor.  R.  Eliezer 
holds,  that  because  he  can  renounce  his  ownership  of  all  he  pos- 
sesses so  that  he  himself  would  be  poor,  would  be  then  entitled 
to  it,  the  same  is  the  case  even  if  he  had  not  done  so.  And  "  be- 
cause "  he  himself  is  entitled  to  it,  he  may  do  so  for  any  one  else. 
The  rabbis,  however,  hold,  that  the  "  theory  of  because  "  can  be 
applied  only  once.  In  this  case,  however,  "  Because "  is  used 
twice,  therefore  their  decision.  If,  however,  the  man  in  question 
was  poor  himself,  all  agree  that  he  can  take  it  for  another  poor 
man,  as  here  only  one  "  because  "  is  to  be  used  ;  namely,  because 
he  has  a  right  to  acquire  it  for  himself,  he  may  do  the  same  for 
another.  Said  R.  Na'hman  to  Ula :  "  Let  the  master  say,  that 
even  if  they  were  both  poor,  they  still  differ.  As  regarding  a 
found  article,  all  are  considered  as  poor,  and  nevertheless  our 
• 


i8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Mishna  stated  that  if  the  one  who  picked  it  up  said  :  I  myself 
have  acquired  title  to  it,  his  act  is  correct.  Now  if  in  the 
quoted  Mishna  they  differ,  in  that  one  poor  for  another,  our 
Mishna  would  be  in  accord  with  the  rabbis."  (That  is,  in  the 
first  part,  "  because  "  the  one  who  picked  it  up  was  entitled  to  it 
for  himself,  he  has  also  a  right  to  transfer  it  to  another  although 
he  was  directed  by  the  rider ;  and  the  latter  part  teaches  us  that, 
when  he  has  not  acquired  title  to  it  before  he  has  given  it  to 
the  rider,  we  do  not  apply  the  above  "theory  of  because,"  if  he 
want  it  for  himself.)  But  if  you  will  say  that  the  recited  Mishna 
speaks  only  of  a  rich  for  a  poor,  but  when  both  were  poor  all 
agree  that  the  title  is  acquired  for  the  other,  then  our  Mishna  is 
neither  in  accord  with  the  rabbis  nor  with  R.  Eliezer?  And  he 
answered :  "  The  Mishna  treats  of  a  case  when  the  man  who 
picked  it  up  says  to  the  rider :  Although  you  have  seen  it  first, 
nevertheless  by  picking  it  up  I  intended  to  acquire  it  for  my- 
self." And  it  seems  that  this  explanation  is  correct  from  the 
latter  part,  which  states  :  "  If  he  says  I  have  acquired  title  on  it 
first,"  etc.,  which  is  superfluous,  as  it  is  self-evident  that  he  means 
at  the  time  when  he  picked  it  up,  which  certainly  he  was  the  first, 
even  if  he  would  not  assert  it  so  plainly.  Therefore,  we  must 
say  that  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  even  in  the  first  part  his  claim 
was  that  he  acquired  title  first.  R.  Na'hman,  however,  may  say 
that  the  expression  "first,"  mentioned  in  thelatter  part,  was  with 
design  to  show  that  in  the  first  part  this  word  was  not  used. 

R.  Na'hman  and  R.  Hisda  both  said  :  "  If  one  picks  up  an 
article  for  another,  the  latter  does  not  acquire  title.  Why  so? 
Because  this  would  be  similar  to  one  who  takes  possession,  with- 
out any  order,  of  goods  or  money  of  his  neighbor  for  the  purpose 
of  settling  his  account  with  so  and  so,  although  the  same  is  a 
debtor  to  other  persons,  which  is  certainly  unlawful,  and  his  act 
cannot  be  taken  into  consideration."  Rabha  objected  to  R. 
Na'hman's  statement  from  the  following  :  A  thing  found  by  an 
employee  who  was  hired  by  the  day,  belongs  to  himself.  When  is 
this  the  case  ?  When  the  employer  has  hired  him  to  clean  or 
plough  the  field  ;  but  if  he  was  hired  for  any  kind  of  work  for  the 
day,  the  found  article  belongs  to  the  employer.  (Hence  we  see 
that  one  can  acquire  title  for  another.)  Said  R.  Na'hman  :  In  the 
case  of  an  employee  is  different,  for  his  hand  is  considered  as  the 
hand  of  his  employer  for  the  whole  day.  But  did  not  Rabh  say 
that  an  employee  can  retire  from  his  agreement  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  day  though  he  was  hired  for  the  whole  day  ?     And  R. 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  19 

Na'hman  rejoined  :  "  Yea,  but  so  long  as  he  has  not  retired,  his 
hand  is  considered  as  the  employer's  hand."  And  the  reason 
why  an  employee  may  retire  from  his  agreement,  even  in  the 
middle  of  the  day,  is  because  it  is  written :  "  For  unto  me  are 
the  children  of  Israel  servants"  [Lev.  xxv.  55],  which  means  my 
servants  but  not  servants  to  other  servants.  (So  one  cannot  make 
another  one  a  slave  even  for  one  day.) 

R.  Hyya  b.  Aba,  however,  says  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan, 
that  "  if  one  picked  up  an  article  for  another,  the  latter  acquires 
title ;  and  if  you  should  object  to  it  from  our  Mishna,  I  would 
say  that  the  Mishna  speaks  of  a  case  when  he  said :  *  Bring  it  to 
me  and  not  acquire  title  for  me.'  " 

MISHNA  ///. :  If  one  has  seen  an  article  and  he  fell  upon  it, 
and  at  the  same  time  another  came  and  took  hold  of  it,  the  latter 
has  acquired  title. 

GEMARA:  Said  Resh  Lakish  in  the  name  of  Aba  Kahna 
Bardala :  "  The  four  ells  of  a  man  gives  title  to  him  at  every 
place.  Why  so  ?  The  rabbis  made  this  enactment  to  prevent 
quarrels."  (This  sentence  will  be  explained  in  the  following  dis- 
cussion.) Said  Abaye  :  R.  Hyya  bar  Joseph  objected  to  this 
from  the  following  Mishna  [Peah,  IV.,  3] :  "  If  one  took  a  part  of 
the  Peah  and  threw  it  on  the  remainder,  he  lost  his  share  in  it 
entirely."  If  one  of  the  poor  fall  upon  the  Peah,  or  he  spreads 
his  garment  upon  it  (with  the  intention  of  acquiring  title  to  it),  his 
act  is  ignored,  and  the  garment  must  be  removed.  The  same  is 
the  case  with  the  forgotten  sheaf  [Peah,  IV.,  3].  Now  if  the 
statement  of  Resh  Lakish  is  correct,  why  does  he  not  acquire 
title  to  it  with  his  "  four  ells  "  (when  he  has  fallen  upon  it)  ? 

The  case  was  that  he  did  not  say  :  "  I  intend  to  acquire  title 
to  it."  But  if  the  above  enactment  of  the  sages  exists,  even  if 
he  did  not  say  anything,  what  is  it  ?  With  his  falling  he  con- 
vinces us  that  only  with  this  act  he  wishes  to  acquire  title  to  it, 
but  not  with  the  four  ells  in  question.  R.  Papa,  however,  said  : 
The  enactment  of  the  sages  regarding  the  four  ells  had  reference 
only  to  a  public  place,  but  not  on  a  private  field ;  and  although 
the  Merciful  One  has  privileged  him  to  go  in  and  to  gather  the 
Peah,  he  is  entitled  only  to  do  that,  but  he  is  not  privileged  to 
consider  it  as  his  own  property. 

Said  Rabha  :  "  R.  Jacob  bar  Idi  objected  the  above  saying  of 
Resh  Lakish  from  the  Law  of  Damages  stated  in  our  Mishna : 
*  If  one  falls  upon  a  found  article  and  another  took  hold  of  it  at 
the  same  time,  the  latter  acquires  title  to  it.'     Now  if  Resh  La- 


20  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

kish's  statement  is  correct,  did  not  the  former  acquire  title  with 
his  four  ells?  "  This  objection  is  answered  in  the  very  same  man- 
ner as  Abaye's  objection,  R.  Shesheth,  however,  says :  "  The 
enactment  of  the  sages  is  only  in  a  semita  (a  kind  of  sidewalk 
where  it  is  not  so  crowded),  but  not  in  the  public  street,  where 
there  is  always  a  crowd  and  many  have  the  same  four  ells."  But 
did  not  Resh  Lakish  say :  "  In  every  place?  "  With  this  expres- 
sion he  means  to  include  the  sidewalks  of  the  public  streets. 

Resh  Lakish  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority : 
"  A  minor  female  has  not  the  right  to  acquire  title  in  her  property, 
and  also  the  law  of  the  four  ells  does  not  apply  to  her."  R. 
Johanan,  however,  in  the  name  of  R.  Janai  said  :  That  both  of 
the  above  laws  apply  also  to  her.  The  two  sages,  however,  do  not 
differ — the  former  speaks  of  a  divorce,  the  law  of  which  will  be 
explained  in  Tractate  Gittin  (Divorces);  and  the  latter  treats 
about  a  found  article,  which  was  in  her  four  ells  or  on  her  prop- 
erty, she  does  acquire  title. 

MISHNA  IV. :  If  one  has  seen  people  running  after  a  found 
article  which  was  on  his  field,  or  after  a  lame  stag,  or  after  un- 
fledged pigeons,  and  he  says :  "  My  property  shall  give  me  title 
to  it,"  his  saying  is  correct.  If,  however,  the  stag  was  not  lame, 
or  the  pigeons  were  fledged,  his  saying  counts  for  nothing. 

GEMARA :  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  "  The 
Mishna  treats  only  of  a  case  when  he  was  standing  upon  his  field." 
But  let  his  property  give  him  title,  even  if  he  was  not  standing 
upon  it,  did  not  R.  Jose  bar  Hanina  declare  that  the  property 
of  one  gives  title  to  him,  even  without  his  knowledge?  Yea,  but 
this  is  said  only  of  a  closed  yard  in  which  things  are  preserved ; 
but  in  an  open  field,  in  which  things  are  not,  the  title  is  acquired 
only  when  he  is  standing  upon  it,  but  not  otherwise,  as  we  learned 
in  the  following  Boraitha :  "  If  one  was  in  the  city  and  said  :  It 
is  known  to  me  that  my  employees  have  forgotten  a  sheaf  in  my 
field  (I  myself,  however,  did  not  forget  it),  it  shall  not  be  consid- 
ered a  forgetfulness  as  mentioned  in  the  Scripture,  lest  one  say  it 
is  not  called  forgotten ;  therefore  it  is  written  :  '  And  thou  for- 
gettest  a  sheaf  in  the  field.'  There  it  is  considered  a  forgetfulness, 
but  not  if  he  has  recollected  it  when  he  was  already  in  the  city." 
How  shall  th3  Boraitha  be  understood  ? 

It  is  said,  first :  "  Lest  one  say  it  is  not  called  forgetfulness,  by 
which  we  see  that  the  Boraitha  would  state  that  it  is  considered 
as  forgotten,  and  afterwards  is  proved  the  contrary,  that  it  is  not 
considered  as  forgotten." 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  21 

We  must,  therefore,  say  that  when  he  was  still  in  the  field  it 
first  escaped  his  mind,  and  then  the  minds  of  his  employees  ;  but 
if  he  kept  it  in  his  mind,  and  the  employees  forgot  it,  it  is  not 
considered  as  forgetfulness.  And  why  so  ?  Because  when  he  was 
standing  upon  it,  his  property  gives  him  title  to  it,  even  if  after- 
wards it  escaped  his  mind.  But  when  he  was  in  the  city,  even  if 
he  was  aware  of  it,  and  afterwards  it  escaped  his  mind,  it  is  called 
forgetfulness ;  because  he  was  not  on  his  field,  his  property  does 
not  give  him  title.  And  so  it  is,  as  Ula  and  also  Rabba  bar  bar 
Hana  explained  our  Mishna,  that  the  case  was  only  when  he  was 
standing  upon  his  field. 

R.  A'ha,  however,  objected  to  Ula's  statement :  "  There  is  a 
Mishna  (Maaser  Sheni,  V.,  9) :  It  happened  that  Raban  Gamaliel, 
with  the  Elders,  were  sailing  on  a  boat,  and  R.  Gamaliel  said : 
The  tithe,  which  I  am  going  to  measure,  should  be  delivered  to 
Joshu,  and  the  place  where  it  is  now  is  leased  to  him.  Another 
tithe  for  the  poor  should  be  delivered  to  Aqiba  ben  Joseph ;  he 
should  take  possession  of  it  for  the  poor,  and  the  place  where  it 
is  now  found  is  also  leased  to  him."  Now,  were  then  R.  Joshua 
and  R.  Aqiba  standing  upon  R.  Gamaliel's  field,  and,  nevertheless, 
we  see  that  they  acquired  title  to  it?  And  Ula  answered  him: 
This  question  fit  coming  from  a  man  who  never  studied.  When 
R.  Abba  came  to  Sura,  he  told  the  students  of  the  college  that 
so  said  Ula,  and  so  I  objected  (and  I  did  not  get  a  satisfactory  an- 
swer from  Ula),  said  one  of  the  students  to  him  :  "  R.  Gamaliel 
assigned  to  them  movable  property  through  real  estate."  R.  Zera 
accepted  this  explanation.  R.  Abba  did  not.  Said  Rabha :  "  R. 
Abba  is  right  in  opposing  it."  Then  was  there  not  a  Sudarium, 
through  which  usually  title  is  acquired  in  consummating  a  sale? 
But  as  the  grain,  which  was  already  tithe,  would  not  be  considered 
as  R.  Gamaliel's  property,  and  he  had  only  the  benefit  of  choosf.ig 
the  men  whom  he  likes  to  give  it,  and  such  a  benefit  is  not  con- 
sidered as  money,  that  it  shall  be  sold  by  Sudarium,  the  same  is 
not  considered  as  money  to  acquire  it  through  real  estate.  (But 
R.  Gamaliel  renounced  his  ownership,)  and  to  ownerless  property 
every  one  can  acquire  title.  And  for  this  purpose,  R.  Gamaliel 
leased  his  property  to  them,  that  it  should  belong  to  them  for  a 
certain  time.  So  it  is  considered  their  property,  and  they  acquire 
title  to  it.  (Said  the  Gemara :)  In  the  reality  it  is  not  as  Rabha 
said,  because  the  gifts  that  belong  to  the  priest,  it  is  written, 
you  shall  give  to  him,  and  therefore  title  cannot  be  acquired 
through  a  Sudarium,  which  is  only  an  act  of  buying  and  selling. 


22  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

But  to  assign  movable  things  as  real  estate,  it  can  be  called  a 
valid  gift. 

R.  Papa,  however,  said :  "  In  the  above  case  of  R.  Gamaliel 
the  title  was  acquired  through  his  property,  and  nevertheless  there 
is  no  contradiction  to  Ula's  theory,  because  in  this  case  the  things 
of  tithe  which  were  assigned  to  the  two  persons  named  were  not 
ownerless,  but  belonged  to  R.  Gamaliel,  and  he  transferred  them 
through  his  property,  and  this  suffices  even  if  they  were  not 
standing  on  the  property  assigned  to  them."  Said  R.  Shimi  to  R. 
Papa :  "  Let  us  see  the  case  of  a  divorce,*  where  also  a  third  per- 
son  transfers  it  to  her,  and  nevertheless,  said  Ula,  the  divorce  is 
valid  only  when  the  woman  is  standing  upon  her  property,"  In 
a  case  of  divorce  it  is  different,  as  the  laws  permit  that  it  be 
delivered  to  her  against  her  will.  R.  Shesheth,  the  son  of  R.  Idi, 
opposed :  "  Is  this  not  an  a  fortiori  conclusion  ?  namely,  a 
divorce  which  is  permitted  to  be  delivered  to  her  against  her  will, 
nevertheless  it  is  necessary  that  she  should  be  standing  upon  her 
property ;  so  much  the  more,  a  gift  the  title  of  which  is  acquired 
only  by  the  acceptor's  will,  it  should  be  necessary  that  he  should 
stand  upon  property."  Therefore  said  R.  Assi :  "  The  theory  of 
thetfyi?r//^rt  conclusion  would  not  be  applied  here,  as  the  reason 
why  the  property  gives  title  is  because  her  property  is  considered 
as  her  hand,  and  cannot  be  less  in  value  than  her  messenger, 
who  acquires  title  of  a  gift  for  her,  even  when  she  did  not  appoint 
him  to  do  so,  for  the  reason  that  it  is  self-evident  she  would  not 
refuse  to  accept  a  gift."  In  the  case  of  a  divorce,  however,  which 
is  not  for  her  benefit,  a  messenger  without  her  consent  cannot 
accept  for  her  in  a  matter  which  is  supposed  to  be  against  her 
will ;  and  there  is  a  rule  that  a  messenger  cannot  accept  anything 
which  is  not  beneficial  to  his  principal.  And  the  same  is  the  case 
with  her  yard. 

"  If  we  have  seen  them  running,"  etc.  Said  R.  Jeremiah  in 
the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  "  The  case  is,  when  the  owner  was  run- 
ning  after  them,  and  overtook  them."  He,  however,  propounded 
a  question,  what  would  the  law  be  in  the  case  of  a  gift,  and  R. 
Aba  bar  Kohana  received  the  decision  afterwards,  that  even  if  he 
had  not  overtaken  them,  he  acquired  title,  because  a  third  person 
transferred  it  to  him. 

Rabha  propounded  a  question  :  When  one  throws  a  purse  of 
money  through  an   open  door,  and  (after  passing  through  the 

*  The  law  of  it  is  explained  in  Tractate  Gittin. 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  23 

house)  it  came  out  through  another  opening,  what  is  the  law — has 
the  owner  of  the  house  acquired  title  to  it  or  not  ?  Shall  we  say 
that,  although  the  purse  did  not  rest  in  the  house,  it  is  considered 
as  if  it  had  rested?  Rejoined  R.  Papa,  according  to  others  R. 
Ada  bar  Mathna  or  Rabbina,  to  Rabha :  "  Is  it  not  a  similar  case  as 
in  our  Mishna,  where  it  is  said  :  '  When  he  sees  them  running,'  etc, 
where  R.  Jeremiah  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  that  he  only 
acquires  title  when  he  ran  after  them  and  overtook  them ;  and 
then  he  propounded  the  question,  what  is  the  law  in  the  case  of 
a  gift,  from  whom  afterwards  R.  Aba  bar  Kahana  heard  that  by  a 
gift  he  acquired  title  through  his  property  even  when  without 
overtaking  them  ?  "  In  the  case  of  our  Mishna  the  animals  were 
also  only  running  through  the  field  without  resting  there,  and 
nevertheless  it  is  said  that  the  property  gave  title  to  him.  The 
same  is  therefore  even  in  our  case.  So  Rabha  rejoined  :  "  Both 
these  cases  are  different,  as  there,  although  the  animals  did  not 
rest  upon  the  field,  still  they  ran  upon  it,  and  touching  the 
ground  may  be  considered  as  if  they  had  rested  upon  it,  which 
is  not  the  case  with  the  purse,  which  did  not  touch  the  ground 
at  all." 

MISHNA  IV. :  When  a  thing  was  found  by  the  minor  son 
or  daughter  of  a  man  or  by  his  man  or  maid  servant,  or  by  his 
wife,  the  found  article  belongs  to  him.  When,  however,  it  was 
found  by  his  son  or  daughter  of  age,  or  by  his  Jewish  man  or 
maid  servant,  or  by  his  divorced  wife,  although  he  had  not  yet 
paid  the  amount  due  according  to  her  marriage  contract,  the 
found  article  belongs  to  the  finder. 

GEMARA  :  Said  Samuel :  "  Why  did  the  rabbis  say  that 
the  found  article  of  a  minor  son  belongs  to  his  father?  The 
reason  is  that,  as  soon  as  he  finds  it,  he  runs  with  it  to  his  father 
without  any  delay.  (He  picked  it  up,  therefore,  specially  for  his 
father,  and  so  it  belongs  to  the  parent.)  (Kethuboth  gives  another 
reason  why  the  found  article  of  his  minor  daughter  or  his  wife 
belongs  to  him,  and  therefore  here  the  question  is  only  of  the 
minor  son.)  Shall  we  say  that  Samuel  is  of  the  opinion  that 
a  minor  cannot  acquire  title  for  himself,  according  to  biblical 
law  ?  (for  if  the  minor  could  acquire  title  for  himself,  the  rabbis 
would  not  say  that  the  found  article  should  always  belong  to 
his  father,  even  in  the  case  where  the  son  is  independent  of  his 
father  and  supports  himself).  Did  we  not  learn  :  "  When  a  man 
hires  a  workman  to  labor  in  his  field,  it  is  allowed  for  the  son  of  the 
workman  to  gather  the  forgotten  sheaves  in  the  same  field  (in 


24  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

case  the  son  is  poor)  ?  When,  however,  the  workman  was  work- 
ing  (as  a  partner)  for  a  half  or  a  third  or  a  quarter  of  the  products 
of  the  field,  then  his  son  is  not  allowed  to  gather."  (As  then  the 
workman  is  considered  as  the  owner  of  the  field.  The  son  is,  there- 
fore, not  allowed  to  gather  in  the  same  field.)  R.  Jose,  however, 
said  :  "  Even  in  the  latter  case  his  son  and  his  wife  are  allowed 
to  gather  in  the  same  field  (as  R.  Jose  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
son  even  can  keep  that  which  he  gathers  for  himself,  and  so  he  can 
do  it  even  when  his  father  is  the  owner  of  the  field,  when  the  son 
himself  is  poor)."  And  Samuel  said  that  the  law  is  according  to 
R,  Jose's  theory.  This  would  be  right  when  we  say  that  Samuel 
is  of  the  opinion  that  a  minor  can  acquire  title  in  himself,  for  the 
reason  that  we  say  the  minor  gathers  it  for  himself,  and  the  father 
afterwards  acquires  title  to  it  from  his  son  (and  therefore  he  said 
that  the  law  is  according  to  R.  Jose).  But  when  Samuel  was  of 
the  opinion  that  a  minor  cannot  acquire  title  for  himself  at  all 
(how  could  Samuel  say  that  the  law  is  according  to  R.  Jose,  that 
the  son  may  gather  in  the  same  field  ?),  as  the  son  can  only  acquire 
title  to  it  for  his  father,  and  his  father  is  a  rich  man ;  how  is  it 
allowed  that  the  son  as  well  as  his  wife  may  gather  in  the  same 
field  ?  Nay,  this  presents  no  difficulty,  as  Samuel  only  gives  the 
reason  of  the  Tana  of  our  Mishna,  but  Samuel  himself  did  not 
accept  the  theory.  But  does  R.  Jose  really  hold  that  a  minor  had 
a  right  to  acquire  title  according  to  biblical  law — is  there  not  a 
Mishna  in  Tract  Gittin,  in  which  his  opinion  there  contradicts 
his  opinion  here  ?  Therefore  Abaye  said :  "  It  is,  however, 
allowed  that  the  son  may  gather  in  the  same  field  for  the  fol- 
lowing reason  (the  rabbis  consider  this  field  as  a  field  in  which 
the  gatherers  after  the  youth  were  already  in  the  field,  in  which 
case  the  sheaves  are  allowed  to  be  gathered  even  by  rich  people, 
because  the  poor  had  already  renounced  their  ownership  in  the 
field,  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  this  field),  that  the  poor  (at 
the  start)  renounce  their  right  to  gather  in  this  field,  as  they 
know  that  the  son  of  the  workman  will  gather  in  there  where 
the  father  is  woiking."  R.  Ada  b.  Mathna,  however,  objected 
to  Abaye's  statement :  "  Is  it  allowed  for  a  man  to  put  a  lion  in  his 
field,  that  the  poor  men  shall  be  frightened  to  run  away  when  seeing 
it  ?  (It  means  if  the  son  has  no  right  to  gather  in  this  field  it  should 
not  be  allowed  for  him  to  be  there  at  all,  and  then  the  poor  will 
not  renounce  their  right  to  gather  in  this  same  field  ?)"  Therefore 
says  Rabha  :  "  In  this  case  they  gave  him  the  right  to  acquire 
title,  although  he  cannot  do  so  in  other  cases,  because  the  other 


TRACT  BABA  METZIA  (MIDDLE  GATE).     25 

poor  men  would  be  satisfied  with  this ;  for  when  they  themselves 
will  be  hired  as  workmen,  their  sons  also  would  be  allowed  to 
gather  in  the  same  field." 

And  he  differs  {i.e.,  Samuel,  with  his  above-stated  reason  of  the 
Mishna)  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan,  who  said  (about  the  expression  "  of  age  "  and  "  minor  "  in 
our  Mishna)  that  it  is  no  matter  if  the  son  is  of  age  or  a  minor ; 
but  even  if  of  age,  if  he  lives  with  his  father  and  depends  upon 
him,  he  is  considered  as  a  minor.  On  the  other  hand,  even  a 
minor,  if  he  is  independent  of  his  father,  is  considered  as  of  age. 

"  The  found  article  of  his  Jewish  man  or  maid  servant^'  etc. 
Why  ?  Suppose  he  would  be  only  hired  as  a  workman,  we  have 
learned :  "  When  a  thing  is  found  by  a  workman,  it  belongs  to 
him.  This  is  only  the  case  when  the  employer  has  said  to 
him,  Clean  my  field  or  dig  it  to-day ;  but  when  he  has  hired  him 
for  any  work  for  the  day,  the  found  belongs  to  the  employer." 
(And  why,  then,  should  not  the  case  in  our  Mishna  be  the  same  ?) 
Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  in  the  name  of  Johanan :  "  The  Mishna 
treats  of  a  case  where  the  servant  was  working  at  a  labor  similar 
to  piercing  pearls,  and  his  employer  did  not  want  him  to  inter- 
rupt his  ordinary  work  with  any  other  work,  not  even  to  pick  up  a 
found  article,  and  therefore  (even  when  it  happened  that  he  had 
found  a  very  precious  thing)  it  belonged  to  himself."  Rabha  said : 
"  The  case  here  is  that  he  picked  up  the  found  article  without  inter- 
rupting his  work  (and  therefore  it  belongs  to  himself)."  R.  Papa, 
however,  said :  "  The  case  in  the  Boraitha,  where  it  is  said  that 
the  found  article  belongs  to  the  employer,  means  only  when  the 
working-man  was  hired  to  gather  found  articles  for  him  ;  e.g.,  when 
his  field  was  flooded,  and  he  hired  him  to  gather  the  cast-up  fish." 

(In  such  a  case  only  any  other  found  article  belongs  to  the 
employer,  but  not  in  any  other  case.) 

"  The  found  article  of  his  wife"  etc.  If  she  was  divorced,  is 
it  not  self-evident  ?  The  case  was  where  it  was  doubtful  if  the 
divorce  reached  her  legally,  and  in  such  a  case  the  husband  is 
still  bound  to  support  her ;  lest  one  say  that  for  that  reason  her 
found  article  belongs  to  him,  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  the  reason 
why  her  found  article  belongs  to  the  husband  is  only  to  prevent 
animosity,  which  cannot  apply  here,  as  here  there  is  already 
animosity. 

MISHNA  V. :  When  one  has  found  a  note  which  secures 
real  estate,  he  shall  not  return  it,  because  it  can  be  collected  by 
the  court ;  but  if  not,  he  shall  return  it,  as  it  cannot  be  collected. 


26  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  The  sages,  however,  say :  "  He 
must  not  return  (to  the  parties),  as  at  any  rate  the  case  will  come 
before  the  court  and  the  money  will  be  collected." 

GEMARA :  How  is  the  case?  Shall  we  assume  that  the 
debtor  admits,  even  in  the  first  case,  why  he  shall  not  return  to 
the  lender,  and  if  he  does  not  admit,  why  shall  he  return  it,  even 
when  there  is  no  security,  the  note  cannot  be  collected  only  from 
encumbered  property,  but  from  free  property?  The  case  is 
when  the  debtor  admits,  and  the  reason  why  it  must  not  be 
returned  is  this  :  It  is  to  be  feared,  perhaps,  the  note  was  written 
in  Nisan,  but  he  did  not  receive  the  money  in  question  before 
Tishri.  And  if  it  will  be  returned  to  the  lender,  he  will  take 
possession  of  goods  sold  in  the  mean  time  against  the  law.  If 
so,  then  why  is  it  not  to  be  feared  in  the  case  of  all  the  notes 
which  come  before  the  court  ?  In  all  the  notes  there  is  no  weak 
point ;  but  this  note,  because  lost,  has  a  weak  point.  R.  Elazar 
said  :  "  They  differ  when  the  debtor  does  not  admit.  R.  Meir 
holds  that  a  note  without  security  cannot  be  collected  even  from 
unencumbered  property,  and  the  rabbis  hold  that  it  can  be  col- 
lected ;  but  when  there  is  an  admission,  all  agree  it  must  be 
returned  without  any  fear  that  perhaps  it  is  paid,  and  his  admis- 
sion is  a  xotyooyia  (a  sort  of  conspiracy.)"  R.  Johanan,  how- 
ever, said  :  "  They  difTer  only  when  there  is  an  admission,  and 
the  point  of  their  difference  is  this  :  R.  Meir  holds  that  a  note 
without  security  is  collected  from  unencumbered  property  only ; 
the  rabbis,  however,  hold,  that  from  encumbered  property  also. 
But  in  case  there  is  no  admission,  according  to  all  it  must  not 
be  returned,  because  it  is  to  be  feared  that  the  note  is  paid." 

There  is  a  Boraitha  in  support  of  R.  Johanan  objecting  to 
R.  Elazar's  statement  in  one  point  and  to  Samuel's  in  two : 
"  When  one  has  found  a  note,  if  there  is  security,  although  both 
admit  it  shall  not  be  returned  to  one  of  the  parties ;  if,  how- 
ever, there  is  no  security,  when  the  borrower  admits,  it  shall  be 
returned  to  the  lender ;  but  if  there  is  no  admission,  it  must  not 
be  returned  to  either  of  them.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir,  as 
he  used  to  say  that  notes  to  which  there  are  security  can  be 
collected  even  from  encumbered  property ;  but  if  there  is  no 
security,  it  can  be  collected  only  from  free  property.  The  sages, 
however,  say  any  note  can  be  collected  even  from  encumbered 
property."  Hence  there  is  a  contradiction  to  R.  Elazar's  state- 
ment in  one  point,  for  he  says  :  R.  Meir  holds  that  a  note  with- 
out  security  is  not  to  be  collected  from  any  property,  and  he  says, 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  27 

also,  that  according  to  both  R.  Meir  and  the  rabbis  there  is  no 
fear  for  a  Kainmiia,  and  the  Boraitha  states  that  a  note  without 
security  can  be  collected  from  unencumbered  property,  and  it  is 
also  too  plain  to  see  that  according  to  all,  the  Boraitha  fears  a 
Kahiunia,  in  that  it  states  that  even  when  they  both  admit,  it 
must  not  be  returned.  [But  is  this  not  two  points  in  which  R. 
Elazar  is  contradicted  by  the  Boraitha  ?  Nay,  it  is  counted  only 
one,  because  there  is  only  one  reason  for  both  the  theories, 
namely  :  As  he  interpreted  it,  the  difference  between  the  Tanaim 
of  the  Mishna  in  case  there  is  no  admission,  he  was  compelled  to 
say  that  such  a  note  is  not  to  be  collected  even  from  free  prop- 
erty ;  and  when,  according  to  his  interpretation  when  there  is  an 
admission,  all  agree  that  it  must  be  returned,  he  was  compelled  to 
say  that  there  is  no  fear  for  a  Kainunia.]  And  there  is  a  con- 
tradiction to  Samuel  in  two  points  ;  the  first  one  is  the  same  as 
to  R.  Elazar's  statement,  as  he  also  interpreted  the  Mishna  when 
there  is  no  admission ;  and  the  second  is  to  Samuel's  statement 
elsewhere,  that  if  one  has  found  a  bill  of  sale  he  must  return 
it  to  the  owner  without  fear  that  it  is  a  paid  one,  and  the  above 
Boraitha,  which  states  that  even  if  they  both  agree,  it  must  not 
be  returned  to  either  of  them,  contradicts  directly  Samuel's  state- 
ment, as  we  see  that  the  Boraitha  fears  that  it  is  paid  even  when 
they  both  agree ;  and  so  much  the  more  in  the  case  of  Samuel, 
when  the  debtor  does  not  admit.  Samuel  said :  "  The  reason 
why  the  sages  hold  that  a  note  without  security  is  to  be  collected 
from  all  kinds  of  properties  is,  because  that  according  to  their 
supposition  the  mistake,  in  not  mentioning  the  security,  is  made 
by  the  scribe,  but  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  lender  who  took  the 
note  had  intended  that  the  amount  should  be  secured  by  all  the 
property  of  the  borrower."  Said  Rabha  bar  Ithi  to  R.  Idi  bar 
Abin  :  Did  Samuel  indeed  say  so — did  he  not  declare  elsewhere 
that  the  scribe  must  be  advised  by  the  owner  regarding  the  in- 
crement to  the  field  in  case  it  is  mortgaged,  and  will  be  taken 
away  from  him,  and  also  that  in  such  a  case  he  shall  have  the 
right  to  collect  his  money  from  the  best  estate,  and  that  all  his 
estates  are  mortgaged  to  this  sale,  but  he  must  not  write  such 
things  without  advice  in  the  matter  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  the 
one  who  said,  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  the  above  statement  does 
not  hold,  that  Samuel  stated  the  last  one,  or  both  contradictory 
statements  can  be  reconciled  ?  There  is  no  difficulty  in  explain, 
ing.  The  first  statement  of  Samuel  is  in  case  of  a  money  loan,  in 
which  usually  one  who  gives  money  is  very  careful  in  securing  all 


aS  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  borrower's  property,  and  if  it  was  not  so  mentioned  in  the 
note  it  must  be  a  mistake  of  the  scribe's ;  and  the  other  one  is 
by  a  regular  sale,  in  which  it  can  happen  that  one  needs  an  estate 
only  for  a  short  time  and  he  does  not  care  if  it  will  be  taken 
away  from  him  afterwards,  as  it  happened  that  Abuha  bar  Ihi 
bought  the  best  estate  of  his  sister.  Afterwards  it  was  taken 
away  by  one  of  her  creditors,  and  he  complained  before  Mar 
Samuel.  The  latter  questioned  him :  "  Is  it  mentioned  in  the  bill 
of  sale  that  her  property  is  security  ?  "  And  he  answered  "  No." 
Then  Samuel  said :  "  You  can  go  in  peace."  He  questioned : 
"  Did  not  the  master  say  that  the  omission  of  security  was  only 
a  mistake  of  the  scribe  ?  "  And  the  answer  was  :  "  This  is  only  in 
the  case  of  notes  on  money  loans  ;  but  in  a  case  of  a  bill  of  sale,  it 
can  happen  that  the  buyer  needs  the  real  estate  only  for  a  short 
time." 

Rabha  said  :  "  If  Reuben  sold  a  field  to  Simeon  with  security, 
and  the  creditor  of  Reuben  came  and  took  it  away,  this  is  the 
law,  that  Reuben  has  a  right  to  summon  him  before  the  court, 
and  the  creditor  cannot  say,  I  have  nothing  to  do  with  you, 
because  Reuben  may  claim  that  finally  the  debt  will  return  to 
him  for  payment.  According  to  others,  the  same  is  the  case  even 
if  the  field  was  sold  without  security,  because  Reuben  may  say : 
I  dislike  to  have  Simeon  incensed  against  me." 

Rabha  said  again :  "  If  Reuben  sold  a  field  to  Simeon  without 
security,  and  before  he  took  possession  of  it  there  were  claims 
against  it,  he  can  retract ;  but  not  when  the  claims  arose  after  he 
had  taken  possession,  because  the  seller  can  say,  You  have  bought 
a  cat  in  a  bag  (without  looking  to  see  what  there  was  in  it),  and 
therefore  you  must  keep  it."  What  act  of  the  buyer  is  con- 
sidered sufficient  as  a  Hazaka  (occupation)  ?  When  he  has  im- 
proved the  borders  of  the  field.  According  to  others,  the  same  is 
the  case  even  when  the  field  was  sold  with  security,  because  the 
seller  can  say  to  him.  Show  me  the  warrant  by  which  the  field  will 
be  taken  away  from  you,  and  I  will  repay  the  money  to  you,  but 
not  before.  It  was  taught :  "  If  one  sold  a  field  and  it  was  found 
that  it  was  not  his,  Rabh  said  :  The  money  as  well  as  the  increase 
must  be  returned."  Samuel,  however,  said  :  "  The  money  only." 
The  schoolmen  asked  R.  Huna :  "  When  the  increase  in  question 
was  stated  plainly  in  the  bill  of  sale,  what  is  the  law  ?  Shall  we 
assume  that  Samuel's  reason  rested  on  the  theory  that  the  increase 
was  not  stated,  then  in  our  case  the  seller  is  obliged  to  return ;  or 
that  Samuel's  reason  rested  on  the  theory  that  in  reality  he  did  not 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  29 

possess  any  estate,  and  if  the  money  paid  would  be  returned  with 
any  increase,  it  would  appear  usurious  ? "  R.  Huna  answered : 
"Yea  and  nay,"  as  he  himself  was  in  doubt.  It  was  taught, 
however,  by  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  that  "the 
increase  does  not  belong  to  him,  even  if  it  were  in  the  bill  of  sale, 
for  the  reason  just  mentioned."  Rabha  objected  to  R.  Na'hman 
from  the  following  Mishna  [Gittin,  V.,  i]  :  "  Encumbered  property 
is  not  liable  either  for  the  used  fruits,  for  the  increase  of  the 
estate,  or  for  the  support  of  the  wife  and  daughters;  for  the 
benefit  of  humanity."  (For  if  this  would  be  practised,  nobody 
would  buy  a  field,  for  fear  it  might  be  taken  away  from  him.)  Now, 
from  the  expression  "  encumbered,"  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  free 
estate  is  liable  even  for  the  increase ;  and  is  this  not  the  same  case 
as  when  it  was  bought  from  one  who  did  not  possess  any  estate  ? 
Nay,  a  creditor  may  be  meant.  If  it  is  so,  how  is  the  first  part 
of  the  same  Mishna  to  be  understood,  that  "  of  the  used  fruit  "  ? 
If  there  is  a  creditor,  has  he  the  right  to  use  the  fruit  at  all  ?  Did 
not  Samuel  say  :  "  The  creditor  has  the  right  to  collect  from  the 
field  of  its  increase,  but  not  of  the  fruits."  We  must,  therefore, 
say  that  in  this  part  the  case  of  a  robbery  arises  and,  conse- 
quently, the  latter  part  also  treats  of  a  robbery — why,  then  ?  Is 
it  not  customary  in  a  Mishna  that  the  first  part  should  treat  of 
one  case  and  the  other  part  of  another?  But  is  it  not  otherwise 
explained  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "What  is  meant  by  the 
expression  *  for  the  increase  of  the  estate '  ?  If  one  has  robbed  a 
field  and  it  is  to  be  taken  away  from  him  ;  the  amount  of  the  field 
is  to  be  collected  even  from  encumbered  property ;  the  increment, 
however,  from  unencumbered  only."  Now,  how  was  the  case? 
If  we  assume  that  it  is  from  a  robber,  why  should  the  robber  get 
any  benefit  ?  It  must,  therefore,  treat  of  a  case  where  the  robber 
had  sold  the  field  to  another,  and  the  other  has  increased  its 
value,  and  nevertheless  it  is  said  that  it  must  be  paid  for  the 
increment  also  ?  Answered  R.  Na'hman :  "  And  without  your 
objection,  could,  then,  the  Boraitha  be  taken  as  it  reads?  It  must 
be  corrected ;  correct  it,  also,  that  it  treats  of  a  creditor."  The 
Gemara  raised  another  objection  from  the  further  explanation 
of  the  above  Boraitha :  Come  and  hear :  "  What  is  meant  by  the 
expression  *  of  the  used  fruits,'  etc.  ?  " 

Here,  also,  it  cannot  be  interpreted  to  mean  that  it  was  taken 
away  from  a  robber,  for  the  reason  explained  above ;  and  it  must 
treat  of  a  case  as  explained  above,  and  nevertheless  it  is  said  that 
for  the  used  fruits  is  to  be  collected.   (Are,  then,  not  the  fruits  to  be 


30  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

considered  as  an  increment  ?)  Said  Rabha  :  "  The  case  was  that 
one  had  robbed  a  field  full  with  fruits,  and  he  had  consumed  the 
fruits  and  digged  excavations  in  it.  When,  then,  the  robbed  one 
came  to  complain,  he  collected  for  the  field  even  from  the  encum- 
bered property  of  the  robber,  but  for  the  fruits  of  his  free  estate 
only."  Rabha  bar  R.  Huna  said:  "It  means  that  it  was  taken 
away  from  Gentiles  for  debt.  The  robbed  one,  then,  when,  he 
complains,  collects  as  above."  Rabha  did  not  explain  as  Rabha 
bar  R.  Huna,  because  the  expression,  "and  it  is  to  be  taken 
away  from  him,"  is  to  be  interpreted  by  the  court.  Rabha  bar 
R.  Huna  did  not  explain  as  Rabha,  because  the  same  expression 
means  that  the  field  is  to  be  taken  away  in  good  condition,  and 
not  when  it  was  spoiled  by  digging.  R.  Assi,  however,  said  : 
"  The  Boraitha  is  to  be  corrected,  and  it  speaks  of  two  different 
parties  in  the  case  as  follows :  If  one  robbed  a  field  full  with 
fruit,  and  he  consumed  the  fruit  and  sold  the  field,  then  the 
buyer  collects  his  money  from  the  encumbered  property  of 
the  robber,  and  the  robbed  one  for  the  fruit  from  the  free 
estate  only." 

Let  us  see :  according  to  both  Rabha  and  Rabha  bar  R. 
Huna,  is  this  not  a  debt  without  any  written  document,  the  law 
of  which  is,  that  it  cannot  be  collected  from  encumbered  prop- 
erty ?  The  case  arose  after  it  was  decided  by  the  court,  which 
is  equal  in  strength  to  a  note.  If  it  is  so,  why  not  the  fruit  also? 
The  case  was  that  the  decision  was  for  the  principal  estate,  but 
not  for  the  fruit.  What  compels  you  to  interpret  the  Boraitha 
with  such  an  explanation  ?  Because  usually  men  claim  of  the 
court  first  for  the  estate  and  after  for  the  fruits. 

Did  Samuel  indeed  say  that  the  buyer  does  not  collect  for 
the  increase — did  not  Samuel  say  to  R.  Huna  bar  Shilath :  "  Be 
careful,  in  writing  a  bill  of  sale  or  a  mortgage,  to  mention  that 
it  should  be  collected  from  the  best  estate,  and  the  increase  and 
the  fruit?"  Now,  what  case  is  referred  to  ?  If  a  creditor,  has 
he  then  a  right  to  the  fruit?  Did  not  Samuel  say  :  "The  creditor 
collects  the  increase,  but  not  the  fruit  ?  "  It  must,  therefore;  be 
said  that  Samuel  means  to  say  that  there  is  a  suspicion  that  the 
seller  is  a  robber  ?  Said  R.Joseph  :  "  Samuel  speaks  of  a  case  where 
such  was  the  condition,  that  he  should  be  responsible  also  for  the 
increase,  with  the  same  legal  formality."  Said  Abaye  to  him  :  "  Is 
it  then  allowed  to  lend  a  saah  of  grain  to  get  back  the  same 
measure  (although  the  price  of  it  may  be  then  higher,  seeming 
usurious),  when  it  was  in  accord  with  the  legal  formality?"  and 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  31 

he  answered  :  "  There  is  a  difference  between  a  loan  and  a  sale. 
Here  it  is  a  loan,  and  therefore  it  is  allowed." 

The  text  reads  :  "  Samuel  said  :  *  The  creditor,'  "  etc.  Said 
Rabha :  "  From  this  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  seller  shall  write 
the  bill  of  sale  as  follows :  I,  the  first  party,  assign  the  goods  to 
you,  and  I  will  discharge  all  claims  which  may  arise  against  the 
sold  property,  and  am  responsible  for  the  trouble  and  increase  you 
may  have  made,  and  it  shall  also  be  testified  to  in  this  bill  of 
sale  that  the  transaction  was  consummated  with  good  will,  etc." 
Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Abin  to  Rabha :  "  If  it  is  so,  how  would  it  be 
with  a  gift,  in  which  case  such  a  bill  of  sale  is  not  made,  as  the 
donor  would  not  care  to  take  such  a  responsibility  on  himself? 
Does  this  affect  the  case  so  that  the  donor  is  not  bound  to  pay 
for  the  increment?"  And  he  said,  "Yea,  it  is."  "But  if  so, 
does  then  a  gift  give  more  right  than  a  sale?"  And  he 
rejoined  :  "  Certainly  it  has,  because  the  buyer  gets  it  returned 
from  the  seller,  which  is  not  the  case  with  a  gift." 

R.  Na'hman  said  :  "  The  following  Boraitha  supports  the  state- 
ment of  Mar  Samuel,  but  my  colleague,  Huna,  interprets  it  for 
other  purposes,  namely  :  '  When  one  sold  a  field  to  another,  and 
finally  it  is  to  be  taken  away  from  him,  he  collects  for  the  estate 
from  encumbered  property,  but  for  the  increment  from  free  estate 
only.  (Hence  there  is  a  support  to  Samuel's  theory.)  Huna. 
however,  interprets  that  the  Boraitha  speaks  of  when  it  was 
bought  from  a  robber,'  " 

We  have  learned  in  anothei  Boraitha :  When  one  sells  a 
field  and  the  buyer  has  improved  it,  and  a  creditor  takes  it  away, 
then,  when  the  buyer  collects  his  money,  if  the  value  of  the 
increase  was  more  than  the  expenses,  he  collects  the  expenses 
from  the  creditor,  and  the  difference  between  the  expenses  and 
the  value  of  the  increase  from  the  owner  of  the  field  ;  when,  in 
reverse,  he  collects  from  the  creditor  the  value  of  the  increase 
only,  how  would  Samuel  himself  explain  the  above  Boraitha? 
If  the  case  is  when  it  was  bought  from  a  robber,  in  the  first  part 
there  will  be  a  difficulty,  as,  according  to  his  theory,  no  incre- 
ment must  be  paid  to  a  robber ;  and  if  it  speaks  of  a  creditor, 
then  the  whole  Boraitha  would  not  agree  with  him,  as,  according 
to  his  theory,  a  creditor  collects  the  increment  of  the  field  (with- 
out being  obliged  to  return  the  expenses?).  The  Gemara  explains 
this :  "  If  you  choose,  it  speaks  either  of  a  case  of  where  it  was 
bought  from  a  robber  who  possessed  real  estate,  or  when  the  in- 
crement was  mentioned  in  the  bill  of  sale  with  the  legal  formality. 

'■'%:  1  J   r:-.     -■' 


32  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

And  if  you  choose  to  explain  that  the  Boraitha  speaks  of  a  credi- 
tor, here  also  it  presents  no  difficulty,  if  you  take  into  considera- 
tion that  there  is  a  difference  between  an  increment  that  is  not 
yet  ripe,  where  in  such  a  case  a  creditor  can  collect  it,  and  an  incre- 
ment of  grain,  which  is  already  ripe  for  harvest,  which  a  creditor 
cannot  collect.  But  is  it  not  a  fact  that  Samuel's  court  collects 
every  day  even  from  grain  that  is  ripe  for  harvest  ?  This  pre- 
sents no  difficulty.  When  the  claim  is  equal  to  the  amount  of 
the  field  with  its  increment  (then  the  creditor  collects  the  increase 
also).  When,  however,  the  claim  is  only  for  the  estate,  then  he 
pays  for  the  increment  and  takes  the  estate." 

If  one  buys  an  estate  knowing  that  the  seller  is  not  the  real 
owner  of  it,  and,  nevertheless,  he  has  paid  money  for  it,  then  the 
money  must  be  returned  to  him,  but  not  the  increment.  So  is 
the  opinion  of  Rabh.  Samuel,  however,  said  :  "  Even  the  money 
is  lost."  In  what  point  is  their  difference  ?  According  to  Rabh 
the  money  was  given  by  the  buyer  as  a  deposit,  and  the  reason 
why  he  did  not  plainly  say  so  was  because  he  was  afraid  he  would 
not  accept  it.  Samuel,  however,  means  that  knowing  that  the 
property  did  not  belong  to  the  seller,  he  gave  his  money  as  a 
gift ;  and  the  reason  why  he  did  not  say  so  is  because  he  was 
afraid  he  would  be  ashamed  to  accept  it.  But  let  us  see :  Ac- 
cording to  both  he  has  not  bought  the  estate  ;  how  then  did  he 
take  possession  of  it  and  consume  its  fruit  ?  The  buyer  thought 
so :  I,  meanwhile,  will  work  the  estate  and  use  its  fruit  as  the 
robber  did  till  now,  and  when  the  real  owner  of  it  will  come,  then 
the  money  shall  be,  according  to  Samuel,  lost ;  or,  according  to 
Rabh,  returned.  Rabha  said  :  "  In  case  an  estate  is  bought  from 
a  robber,  the  Halakha  prevails  that  he  collects  both  the  amount 
and  the  increment,  although  the  latter  was  not  spoken  of.  In 
case  the  buyer  had  knowledge  that  the  estate  did  not  belong  to 
the  seller,  and  nevertheless  he  paid  money  and  has  improved  the 
estate,  the  Halakha  prevails  that  he  loses  the  increase  but  not  the 
money,  and  also  that  not  mentioning  the  security  in  a  bill  of 
sale  or  a  note  given  for  a  loan  is  to  be  considered  as  a  mistake 
of  the  scribe,  and  not,  as  Samuel  said,  that  the  scribe  must  not 
do  it  without  advice." 

Samuel  questioned  Rabh :  "  If  the  robber,  after  he  has  sold 
it,  bought  it  from  the  real  owner,  can  he  be  substituted  for  the 
real  owner,  to  take  it  away  from  his  buyer  ? "  And  Rabh  an- 
swered :  Nay,  because  before  the  sale  the  intention  of  the  (so- 
called)  robber  was  to  buy  it  from  the  owner ;  consequently,  he 


TRACT    BABA    Mi;:TZIA   (MIDDLE    GATE).  33 

sold  to  the  buyer  the  right  which  he  would  acquire  afterwards. 
What  is  the  reason  for  ascribing  to  him  such  an  intention  ?  Mar 
Sutra  says :  "  Because  it  would  be  disagreeable  for  him  to  be 
called  a  robber."  R.  Ashi,  however,  says:  "  It  is  agreeable  to 
one  that  he  shall  remain  an  honest  man."  What  is  the  difference 
between  these  two  opinions  ?  There  is  a  difference  in  case  the 
robber  has  given  the  robbed  field  as  a  gift,  according  to  him  who 
says  that  it  is  agreeable  to  remain  an  honest  man ;  the  same  is 
the  case  also  in  a  gift ;  but  according  to  him  who  says  that  he 
would  not  like  to  be  called  a  robber,  with  a  gift  it  is  different,  as 
he  could  not  be  called  a  robber  even  if  the  gift  would  be  taken 
away  from  the  donor. 

It  is  self-evident  that  when  (before  the  robber  bought  it  from 
the  owner)  he  sold  it  again  to  another  man  or  bequested  it,  or 
gave  it  as  a  gift,  then  certainly  his  intention  was  to  remove  the 
goods  from  his  possession,  he  sold  it  first ;  the  same  is  the  case 
when  he  inherited  this  estate  ;  after  he  sold  it,  he  may  rescind  the 
sale  by  returning  the  money,  as  here  cannot  apply  the  supposi- 
tion that  he  intended  to  remain  an  honest  man,  as  the  estate 
came  to  him  not  through  his  effort ;  but  in  case  he  took  possession 
of  the  field  afterward  as  a  creditor  of  the  robbed  one,  then  it  is 
to  be  seen  whether  the  latter  possesses  other  estates  ;  and  the 
creditor  insisted  on  having  this  field,  then  it  is  to  be  inferred  that 
it  is  to  remain  in  the  possession  of  the  buyer ;  but  if  not,  then 
his  intention  is  not  certain  and  the  buyer  cannot  insist  upon  this 
estate;  but  when  he  received  it  after  it  was  sold  as  a  gift, 
then  R.  A'ha  and  Rabbina  differ :  one  maintains  a  gift  is  the 
same  as  an  inheritance  ;  the  other,  however,  says  that  a  gift  is 
equal  to  a  sale ;  for  if  he  would  not  trouble  himself  to  please  the 
robbed  one,  he  would  not  get  this  gift,  and  the  intention  to  re- 
main an  honest  man  in  the  eyes  of  the  buyer  is  applied  here. 
At  what  time  did  he  buy  it  from  the  robbed  one,  so  that  the 
above  intention  can  be  applied  that  the  buyer  can  insist  upon 
this  sale  ?  R.  Huna  said,  when  the  robber  bought  it  before  he  was 
summoned  by  the  buyer  to  the  court  (but  when  he  was  summoned 
and  he  appealed  to  the  court,  then  we  see  that  the  above  inten- 
tion was  not  in  his  mind,  and  he  bought  the  field  only  for  him- 
self). Hyya  bar  Rabh  said  :  "  Before  the  judgment  was  in  his 
hands."  R.  Papa  said  :  "  The  time  did  not  expire  until  the  days 
of  the  proclamation  began."  * 

*  The  custom  was  that,  after  a  judgment  was  issued  that  the  esUte  should  be 
traosferred  from  one  to  another,  this  act  was  to  be  proclaimed  in  public  places. 

3 


34  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Rami  bar  Hama  opposed,  saying :  "  Let  us  see  what  was  the 
act  by  which  the  buyer  acquired  title  to  the  estate  ;  with  the  bill 
of  sale  ?  Is  that  not  to  be  considered  as  a  piece  of  broken  clay 
vessel,  as  the  estate  was  not  his?"  Said  Rabha  to  him:  "The 
theory  of  Rabh's  statement  can  be  explained,  that  when  the 
buyer  said  to  him,  '  I  trust  upon  your  word  that  you  will  see  that 
the  estate  shall  remain  in  my  possession  without  any  trouble,*  and 
for  this  satisfaction  that  his  word  was  trusted,  the  intention  men- 
tioned above  is  to  be  applied  here."  R.  Shesheth,  however, 
objected  from  the  following  Boraitha :  "  If  one  says,  *  I  sell  to  you 
my  inheritance  from  my  father,  or  what  I  will  catch  with  my 
net,'  he  says  nothing.  If,  however,  he  said, '  I  sell  you  what  I 
will  inherit  from  my  father,  who  is  dying,  or  what  my  net  will 
catch  this  day,"  the  transaction  is  valid.  Hence  we  see  that  the 
sale  of  property  which  is  not  yet  in  possession  is  of  no  value  ?  " 
Answered  Rami  bar  Hama :  "  Here  I  see  a  great  man  with  a 
wonderful  objection."  Rabha,  however,  answered:  "I  see  the 
great  man,  but  I  do  not  see  the  wonderful  objection,  as  the  two 
cases  have  no  comparison  at  all.  In  the  case  of  Rabh,  the 
buyer  said  to  him,  I  rely  upon  you,  therefore  he  troubles 
himself  to  make  his  sale  good  so  that  he  shall  not  be  called 
a  robber  afterwards ;  but  here  the  buyer  cannot  rely  upon 
him  (because  it  was  not  known  to  him  if  he  will  inherit  any-, 
thing  or  not)."  The  above  objection  of  R.  Shesheth  was  sent 
to  R.  Abba  bar  Zabda,  and  he  answered  :  "  It  would  be  of  no 
use  to  bring  this  objection  before  the  students,  as  it  seems 
to  me  that  they  will  not  be  able  to  answer  it."  Rabha,  however, 
said  :  "  It  ought  to  be  brought  before  the  students  of  the  higher 
class,  for  it  seems  to  me  they  will  understand  the  difference  be- 
tween the  two  cases  as  stated  above.  A  similar  case  happened 
in  Pumbeditha  (and  the  court  decided  on  Rabh's  theory,  and 
objection  was  made  from  the  above  Boraitha,  and  R.  Joseph  said 
then,  as  Abba  bar  Zabda  and  Abaye,  the  same  as  Rabha." 

But  what  is  the  reason  that  in  the  latter  part  of  the  Boraitha 
the  sale  is  of  value  ?  Said  R.  Johanan  :  In  the  latter  part,  when 
his  father  is  dying,  the  sale  is  of  value  for  the  honor  of  his  father 
(as  it  may  be  that  he  needs  money  for  the  expense  of  burial, 
and  he  sells  it  beforehand  not  to  disgrace  his  father  in  delaying 
the  burial).  And  what  about  the  net  ?  that  is  also  an  enactment 
of  the  sages  to  make  the  sale  valid,  as  perhaps  he  needs  food  for 
the  day. 

R.  Huna  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  "  If  one  says  that  the 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  35 

estate  which  I  am  about  to  buy  now  shall  be  transferred  to  you 
at  the  same  time  that  I  acquire  title  to  it,  the  title  is  acquired 
and  it  cannot  be  rescinded  any  more."  Said  Rabha :  "  It  seems  to 
me  that  Rabh's  statement  applies  only  when  he  said  any  field 
which  I  am  about  to  buy,  as  the  donee  relies  upon  him ;  but  if  he 
mentioned  a  certain  field,  then  the  donee  does  not  rely  upon  it, 
as  he  may  think  perhaps  this  field  is  not  for  sale  at  all  (the 
Gemara  said)  by  God,  Rabh  said  even  when  he  specified  a  field, 
as  Rabh's  theory  is  in  accord  with  R.  Meir  [Kedushin  II.,  43^] 
that  a  man  can  grant  a  thing  which  is  not  yet  in  existence  in  a 
case  of  marriage,  and  our  case  is  equal  to  that." 

Samuel  said  :  "  If  one  finds  in  the  market  a  note,  made  for  a 
loan,  which  contains  the  legal  formality  that  it  should  be  col- 
lected even  if  the  loan  did  not  take  place,  it  is  to  be  returned  to 
the  creditor ;  for  if  it  was  written  for  the  purpose  of  making  a 
loan  which  did  not  as  yet  take  place,  yet  the  note  is  valid,  as  his 
promise  was  to  pay  at  any  rate,  and  there  need  be  no  fear  that  it 
was  paid,  because  if  so  it  would  be  torn."  Said  R.  Na'hman : 
"  When  I  was  about  six  or  seven  years  old,  my  father  was  among 
the  scribes  of  Mar  Samuel's  court,  and  they  used  to  proclaim 
that  a  note  of  the  above-mentioned  kind,  if  found,  should  be 
returned  to  the  creditor."  Said  R.  Amram  :  "  This  is  also  sup- 
ported from  the  last  Mishna.  '  All  documents  signed  by  the  court 
are  to  be  returned.'  Hence  we  see  that  there  is  no  fear  that  per- 
haps it  is  paid."  Said  R.  Sera  to  him  :  "  The  Mishna  may  speak  of 
documents  in  which  it  is  testified  that,  according  to  the  order  of 
the  court,  the  creditor  had  already  taken  possession  of  the  estate, 
or  judgments  against  debtors  who  at  that  time  had  no  property, 
and  both  kinds  are  not  to  be  paid  with  money."  Said  Rabha: 
"  Are  these  kinds  of  notes  not  payable  ?  Did  not  the  court  of 
Nahardayi  say  that  even  an  estate  the  value  of  which  was  as- 
certained and  assigned  to  the  creditor  is  to  be  returned  till 
twelve  months  elapsed,  and  Amemar  of  the  same  place  testified 
that  he,  as  one  of  the  judges  of  the  above  city,  had  declared 
there  is  always  time  it  should  be  returned  if  paid."  Said  Rabha : 
"  In  those  cases  there  is  another  reason,  for,  according  to  the  law, 
the  creditor  would  not  be  obliged  to  return  the  estate,  and  it  is 
only  an  enactment  of  the  sages  to  return  it  on  account  of  the 
verse  [Deut,  vi.  6]  :  '  And  thou  shalt  do  that  which  is  right 
and  good  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord.'  Therefore,  when  he  took 
possession  of  the  estate,  it  was  considered  as  a  regular  sale,  and 
also  the  debtor  had  either  to  tear  the  note  made  for  a  loan  when 


36  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

paid,  or  take  from  him  a  bill  of  sale ;  and  by  not  doing  so,  he  harmed 
himself,  which,  however,  in  the  case  of  a  common  credit  note,  the 
above  reason  cannot  be  applied,  for  the  following  reason :  It  may 
happen  that  the  creditor,  when  he  got  the  money,  promised  him 
to  return  the  note  afterwards,  as  at  this  time  it  was  not  at  hand, 
or  he  kept  it  back  for  the  expenses  of  the  scribe." 

R.  Abuha  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  "  If  one  finds  a 
note  on  the  street,  although  approved  by  the  court,  it  shall,  how- 
ever, not  be  returned  to  the  creditor,  because  it  may  be  feared 
that  the  note  is  paid,  and  much  less  when  such  was  not  approved." 
R.  Jeremiah,  however,  objected  from  the  above  mentioned 
Mishna :  "  All  documents,  etc."  Said  R.  Abuha  to  him :  "  Jere- 
miah, my  son,  all  cases  are  not  equal !  The  Mishna  may  be 
explained  so  that  it  speaks  of  a  debtor  who  was  already  known 
as  a  liar."  Said  Rabha :  "  And  even  in  such  a  case,  must  it  be 
taken  as  a  rule  that  such  a  man  never  pays  his  debts?  "  "  There- 
fore," says  Rabha,  "  the  Mishna  in  question  explains  as  R.  Sera  said 
above."  And  as  the  case  of  a  liar  is  mentioned,  we  may  say  thus : 
R.  Joseph  bar  Minumi  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  :  "  When 
one  was  ordered  by  the  court  to  pay,  and  he  claimed  afterwards 
he  had  done  so,  he  may  be  trusted  (with  a  rabbinical  oath).  If, 
however,  the  court  had  only  decided  and  the  order  was  not  yet 
issued,  and  the  debtor  claimed  he  had  paid  it,  he  is  not  to  be 
trusted,  and  the  creditor  can  get  a  judgment  (when  he  takes  a 
rabbinical  oath)."  R.  Zebid,  however,  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman 
said :  "  In  both  cases  he  is  to  be  trusted ;  and  when  the  creditor 
claims  a  judgment,  it  is  not  to  comply  with  his  request ;  there- 
fore, if  there  is  some  difference  in  the  above  cases,  it  may  be  as 
follows :  When  he  was  ordered  by  court  to  pay  his  debt  and 
afterwards  he  said  he  had  done  so,  and  there  were  witnesses  that 
he  had  not,  then  he  is  considered  a  liar  in  regard  to  this 
money  that  he  is  not  to  be  trusted-  when  he  says  again  he  has 
paid  it ;  if,  however,  it  was  only  decided,  but  the  order  was  not 
yet  issued,  and  the  witnesses  contradicted  him,  he  may  be,  never- 
theless, trusted,  if  he  says  again  he  had  paid,  because  his  first 
statement  was  only  to  gain  time,  and  he  thought  that  until  the 
judges  would  consider  the  matter  that  an  order  be  issued  the 
money  would  be  paid." 

Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  '*  If 
one  claims  hundred  zuz  and  the  other  denies,  but  witnesses,  how- 
ever, testify  for  the  whole  amount ;  afterwards  he  says,  I  have 
paid  it,  he  is  considered  a  liar  in  this  case."     A  similar  case  arose 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  37 

with  Shabbathai,  the  son  of  Mrinus,  who  assigned  a  silk  garment 
to  his  daughter-in-law  in  her  marriage  contract,  and  she  accepted 
it.  AfterAvards  the  marriage  contract  was  lost,  and  he  denied 
that  such  a  thing  was  written  in  the  contract ;  witnesses,  however, 
testified  that  he  had  written ;  then  he  declared  he  had  given  her 
the  garment,  and  when  the  case  came  before  R.  Hyya,  he  decided 
that  the  above  Shabbathai  is  to  be  considered  a  liar  in  this  case. 
R.  Abin  in  the  name  of  R.  Ilaa,  quoting  R.  Johanan :  "  If  it  was 
decided  that  the  defendant  take  an  oath,  and  afterwards  he  said 
he  did  so  against  the  testimony  of  witnesses  that  he  had  not,  he 
is  considered  a  liar  in  regard  to  this  oath."  When  this  statement 
was  reported  to  R.  Abuhu,  he  said  :  "  It  seems  that  such  a  state- 
ment holds  only  when  he  was  ordered  by  the  court,  but  not 
when  he  declared  himself  willing  to  take  an  oath,  as  then  it  may 
happen  that  he  had  after  reconsidered,  and  therefore  he  cannot 
be  considered  a  liar."  When  this  statement  was  reported  again 
to  R.  Abin,  he  said  :  "  So,  too,  was  my  declaration.  And  so  it 
was  taught  elsewhere  plainly."  R.  Asi  said  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan :  "  If  one  finds  a  note  made  for  a  loan  which  was  ap- 
proved by  the  court,  dated  the  same  day  on  which  it  was  found, 
it  must  be  returned  to  the  creditor,  because  there  is  no  fear  that 
the  loan  did  not  take  place,  as  it  was  approved  by  the  court,  and 
also  there  need  be  no  fear  that  it  was  paid,  as  the  loan  was  made 
only  that  day."  Said  R.  Zera  to  R.  Asi :  "  Did  R.  Johanan  say 
so — did  you  not  state  in  his  name  that  if  the  loan  was  paid,  one 
cannot  use  the  same  note  for  another  loan,  as  its  strength  to  col- 
lect from  encumbered  property  ceased  (from  the  moment  it  was 
paid)  ?  Now,  then,  on  what  date  does  it  mean  that  it  cannot  be 
taken  for  another  loan  ?  If  for  a  later  date,  then  this  note  cannot 
be  used  at  any  rate,  as  the  note  is  of  an  earlier  date.  We  must  then 
say  that  it  means  it  cannot  be  used  for  another  loan  on  the  same 
day."  *  And  he  rejoined  :  "  Did  I  say  that  it  can  never  happen  ? 
I  said  only  it  is  not  usual."  R.  Cahana  said :  "  The  statement 
of  R.  Johanan  treats  only  when  the  borrower  admits  that  the  note 
was  not  yet  paid.  If  so,  what  comes  he  to  tell  us  ?  Lest  one 
say  the  note  is  paid,  and  the  reason  the  debtor  admits  that  it  was 
not  paid  is  only  because  he  wants  to  take  another  loan,  and  save 
the  expense  of  writing  another  note,  he  comes  therefore  to  teach 
us  that  it  is  not  so,  as  in  such  a  case  the  creditor  himself  would 
oppose,  for  the  reason  that  if  this  would  be  heard  in  the  court  it 
would  cancel  the  note." 

*  Hence  we  see  it  may  happen  that  a  loan  may  be  paid  on  the  same  d;-,-  ? 


^S  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

R.  Hyya  bar  Abba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  "  If  one 
claims  to  have  done  what  was  enacted  by  the  court  to  do,  he  says 
nothing;  for  the  enactment  of  the  court  is  good  as  if  one  held  a 
note  in  his  hand."  And  the  same,  when  he  heard  this,  asked  R. 
Johanan  :  "  Is  this  not  said  in  the  [Kethuboth]  Mishna  :  When  a 
woman  shows  her  divorce  without  the  marriage  contract,  she 
nevertheless  collects  what  is  written  in  the  marriage  contract  ?  " 
Answered  R.  Johanan :  "  If  I  would  not  take  away  the  broken 
vessel  which  had  covered  the  pearl,  thou  hadst  not  found  it." 
Said  Abaye :  "  Why,  then,  this  Mishna  may  treat  of  such  places 
where  it  is  not  customary  to  write  a  marriage  contract  at  all,  and 
so  the  document  of  divorce  is  considered  as  if  she  had  the  con- 
tract in  her  hand  ;  but  where  the  above  contract  is  customary, 
she  cannot  collect  without  it.  After  consideration  he  retracts 
the  former  statement,  and  said  what  I  said  above  cannot  be  the 
reason  ;  for  if  such  is  the  case,  that  where  the  contract  is  written 
she  cannot  collect  it  without  the  contract,  how  should  she  collect 
when  she  becomes  a  widow  after  betrothal  (with  a  ring,  as  the 
custom  was  then,  and  from  that  time  she  was  already  considered 
a  married  woman  ;  the  marriage  contract,  however,  was  written 
after  the  official  marriage)  ?  You  can  say  that  she  collects  it  when 
she  brings  witnesses  that  her  husband  is  dead ;  then  this  would 
count  nothing,  as  the  heir  could  nevertheless  say  that  he  had 
paid  already ;  and  lest  one  say  that  it  is  so,  then  to  what  use 
would  be  the  enactment  of  the  sages  that  the  woman  shall  get 
support." 

MISHNA  VI.:  When  one  finds  documents  of  divorce,  of  en- 
franchisement of  a  slave,  of  presents,  or  of  receipts,  he  should  not 
return  them  (to  the  person  for  whom  they  were  made),  because 
it  may  be  that  the  person  who  had  written  the  documents  had 
changed  his  mind  not  to  give  them  for  whomever  they  were 
written. 

GEMARA :  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  lost  a  document  of  divorce 
(which  he  had  to  deliver  to  the  women  as  a  messenger)  in  college, 
and  when  it  was  found  he  said  :  "  If  you  require  signs  to  identify 
the  document,  I  have  them;  and  if  I  am  trusted  by  you  to 
recognize  it,  then  I  recognize  it "  (and  he  had  done  both,  he  had  told 
what  were  the  signs  and  also  recognized  it  by  sight).  When  it  was 
returned  to  him  he  said  :  "  I  cannot  tell  if  they  did  it  on  account 
of  the  signs,  as  they  hold  that  the  biblical  law  requires  only 
signs;  or  signs  only  would  not  be  sufficient,  and  it  was  returned 
only  by  sight,  in  which  only  a  scholar  is  trusted,  but  not  a  com- 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA   (MIDDLE    GATE).  39 

monman."  (There  is  an  objection  to  our  Mishna  from  the  follow- 
ing Mishna  :)  "  If  one  has  found  in  market  a  document  of  divorce, 
and  if  her  husband  admits  that  he  wrote  such  a  divorce  he  shall 
return  it  to  her;  and  if  not,  he  must  not  return  it  to  either  of 
them."  Now  then,  it  states  that  when  the  husband  admits,  it 
may  be  returned.  Why  then  :  let  it  be  feared  that  perhaps  the 
husband  wrote  the  divorce  to  deliver  it  in  the  month  Nissan,  and 
he  had  not  given  it  to  her  until  Tishri,  and  in  the  meantime  he 
had  sold  (legally)  the  fruit  of  her  property,  which  was  produced 
from  Nissan  to  Tishri,  and  afterwards  when  the  woman  would 
collect  with  the  same  divorce,  she  would  take  away  from  the 
buyers  the  products  from  the  time  it  was  written  illegally.  This, 
however,  would  be  correct  according  to  him  who  holds  that  as 
soon  as  the  husband  has  decided  to  divorce  her,  he  has  no  more 
right  to  use  her  products  ;  but  according  to  him  who  holds  that 
he  has  a  right  until  the  divorce  is  delivered,  what  can  be  said  ? 
When  she  comes  to  collect,  it  can  be  said  to  her,  Bring  evidence 
at  what  time  the  document  was  delivered  to  you.  But  why 
should  this  be  different  from  the  note  made  for  a  loan  stated 
above,  where  he  must  not  return  it,  even  when  the  debtor  ad- 
mits, for  the  same  reason  stated  above  by  the  divorce,  let  him 
there  also  return  it  to  the  creditor,  and  when  he  will  come  to 
collect,  evidence  shall  be  required  at  what  date  the  note  made  for 
the  loan  was  delivered  to  him?  It  may  be  said,  in  the  case  of  a 
divorce  the  buyer  can  say  that  the  rabbis  had  decided  to  return 
the  divorce  to  her  only  for  the  purpose  that  she  should  be  able 
to  remarry ;  but  regarding  the  collecting,  she  must  bring  evi- 
dence when  the  divorce  was  delivered  to  her,  but  by  a  creditor 
the  buyer  cannot  say  anything.  Now  is  it  obvious  that  the 
purpose  the  robbers  had  in  returning  to  him  the  note  was  for 
collecting. 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  If  one  finds  a  document  of  enfranchise- 
ment on  the  market,  if  the  owner  admits,  it  may  be  returned  to 
the  slave ;  and  if  not,  it  must  not  be  returned  to  either  of  them." 
It  states,  however,  that  when  the  owner  admits,  it  may  be  re- 
turned to  the  slave.  Why  should  it  not  be  feared  here  the  same 
as  above,  that  the  document  was  written  in  Nissan  and  was  not 
delivered  to  him  until  Tishri,  and  meanwhile  the  slave  had 
bought  property  for  himself,  and  the  owner  (who  had  not  yet 
delivered  the  document)  sold  out,  and  when  the  slave  came  with 
his  document  of  enfranchisement,  which  was  written  in  Nissan, 
he  will  certainly  collect  it  illegally  ?     The  above  answer  can  also 


40  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

apply  here,  that  evidence  will  be  required  from  the  slave  at  what 
time  the  document  was  given  to  him. 

"  Wt//s  or  presents^'  etc.  The  rabbis  taught :  "  What  is  to  be 
considered  a  will  ?  if  it  is  written,  the  property  so  and  so  shall 
belong  to  so  and  so  after  my  death ;  and  what  is  considered  a 
note  for  a  gift,  a  present  ?  if  it  is  written,  the  property  so  and  so 
belongs  to  so  and  so  from  this  date,  but  he  cannot  sell  it  or  use 
its  fruit  until  I  die.  Is  it  to  be  assumed  that  if  it  was  written 
it  shall  belong  to  so  and  so  from  to-day  without  the  above  ex- 
planation, the  donee  did  not  acquire  title  of  it !  (he  certainly 
acquires  title  to  sell  it  and  to  use  it  from  that  day)."  Said  Abaye  : 
"  The  Boraitha  means  to  say  thus  :  When  is  the  note  for  a  gift 
to  be  considered  equal  to  a  will  ?  If  it  is  explained  that  he  shall 
not  take  possession  of  it  before  his  death." 

Now  let  us  see,  after  all  the  discussion  above,  the  reason  for 
our  Mishna  that  it  shall  not  be  returned  because  the  testator  did 
not  consent  to  return  it ;  but  if  he  does,  it  may  be  returned  ;  is 
that  not  contradictory  to  the  following  Boraitha :  "  If  one  has 
found  documents  of  wills,  of  hypothecation,  or  presents,  although 
both  admit,  it  is  not  to  be  returned  to  either  of  them?"  Said  R. 
Zebid  :  (It  is  not  as  Abba  bar  Mamal  tried  to  explain  the  above 
contradiction  that  one  speaks  of  a  healthy  man  and  one  of  a  sick 
man,  but)  "  both  speak  of  the  latter  case,  and  nevertheless  there  is 
no  contradiction,  as  our  Mishna  treats  of  a  case  where  the  testator 
himself,  who  can  change  his  mind  to  assign  it  to  anybody,  said. 
Give  to  another ;  so  that  if  it  would  be  returned  to  whom  it  was 
first  assigned,  he  would  not  acquire  title  to  it,  but  the  last  one 
would :  and  the  Boraitha  which  states  that  it  shall  not  be  re- 
turned speaks  of  the  son  of  the  testator,  and  the  reason  is,  it  is 
to  be  feared  that  perhaps  the  testator  has  not  given  it  to  him  be- 
cause he  has  decided  to  assign  it  to  another ;  and,  therefore,  he 
did  not  deliver  it  to  him,  and  the  son,  after  the  death  of  the 
father,  to  whom  the  intention  of  his  father  was  known,  assigned 
the  estate  to  another  and  already  delivered  the  document  to 
him,  and  afterwards  he  decided  to  give  it  to  the  one  to  whom  it 
was  previously  assigned  by  his  father,  but  as  the  document  was 
already  given  to  the  second,  and  he  could  not  retract  it,  he  de- 
clared that  the  father's  will  was,  to  deliver  it  to  whom  it  was  first 
assigned  with  the  intention  that  the  latter  should  summon  the 
party  to  whom  the  son  had  delivered  his  document,  so  that  fi- 
nally the  estate  should  be  divided  among  them.  The  court,  there- 
fore, may  say  it  will  not  be  returned  for  the  reason  explained 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  41 

above  ;  but  if  you  wish  that  the  man  in  question  should  get  the 
estate,  go  and  draw  up  another  document  and  deliver  it  to  him 
and  then  the  will  of  your  father  will  be  complied  with. 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  If  one  finds  a  receipt  (of  a  marriage 
contract),  it  is  to  be  returned  to  the  husband  when  the  woman  rec- 
ognizes it,  but  not  otherwise."  Now  then,  why  should  it  not  be 
feared  the  same  as  above  ?  Perhaps  she  wrote  it  to  deliver  it  in 
Nissan  and  she  had  not  delivered  it  before  Tishri,  and  in  the 
meantime  she  had  assigned  to  somebody  else  her  marriage  con- 
tract for  the  benefit  of  the  products  in  the  interim  from  Nissan  to 
Tishri,  and  afterwards  if  the  goods  would  be  collected  by  her  re- 
ceipt, it  would  be  illegal."  Said  Rabha  :  "  Infer  from  this,  that 
the  Boraitha  is  in  accord  with  Samuel,  who  says :  *  When  one 
sells  a  note  made  for  a  loan  and  afterwards  he  relinquishes  the 
debt  mentioned  in  the  note,  it  is  relinquished,  and  even  his  heir 
can  do  so  (so  that  the  debtor  must  pay  nothing  and  the  money 
taken  for  the  note  is  to  be  returned).'  "  Abaye,  however,  said  : 
"  Even  if  we  should  say  that  Samuel's  decision  is  not  to  be  con- 
sidered, the  case  in  question  is  to  explain  when  the  marriage 
contract  is  in  her  possession  and  she  brought  it  before  the  court. 
According  to  Rabha's  theory,  however,  the  marriage  contract  is 
not  to  be  considered,  for  she  may  have  had  two."  Abaye,  how- 
ever, rejoined  :  "  First,  it  is  not  to  be  feared  that  there  may  be 
two  ;  and  secondly,  the  collection  on  account  of  the  receipt  takes 
place  from  the  date  it  was  signed,  no  matter  when  it  was  deliv- 
ered." The  last  statement  of  Abaye  is  in  accord  with  his  theory 
elsewhere,  that  witnesses  with  their  signature  give  title  to  whom- 
ever the  document  was  written. 

MISHNA  VII. :  One  who  found  documents  in  which  was  as- 
signed by  the  court  the  property  of  the  defendant  in  benefit  for  the 
plaintiff,  or  obligations  of  supporting  (his  step-daughter,  or)  docu- 
ments of  Haliza  or  such  where  the  annulment  of  a  marriage  of  a 
female  minor  is  expressed,  documents  of  a  claim  and  of  arbitra- 
tion, and  other  documents  made  by  the  court,  are  to  be  returned 
to  whomever  they  belong.  When  one  finds  a  note  in  a  naipa  or 
bag  or  a  roll  or  a  bunch  of  notes,  it  must  be  returned.  What  is 
to  be  considered  a  bunch  ?  Three  bound  together.  R.  Simeon 
ben  Gamaliel  says  :  "  When  three  notes  of  the  same  debtor  and 
different  creditors  are  found,  they  should  be  returned  to  the 
debtor;  but  if  three  different  debtors  from  one  creditor,  then 
to  the  creditor.  If  one  finds  a  note  among  his  own  notes  and 
he  does  not  know  to  whom  it  belongs,  it  shall  be  placed  in  court 


42  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

until  Elijah  will  come.  If  there  is  a  ffv/u<pGoyta,  he  shall  act 
according  to  it." 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant,  claiming  documents?  In  the 
college  of  Babylon  they  used  to  explain  it  as  documents  of 
plaintiff  and  of  the  defendant.  R.  Jeremiah,  however,  said : 
"  Documents  of  the  arbiters  taken  by  the  parties." 

"And  all  documents  made  by  the  court."  There  was  found 
a  divorce  which  was  written  in  the  city  of  Shev^r^,  which  was 
situated  on  the  river  Rackth,  and  it  was  brought  in  the  court  of 
R.  Huna.  Said  R.  Huna:  "  It  is  to  be  feared  that  there  are  two 
cities  of  such  a  name  (therefore  it  is  doubtful  if  it  may  be  re- 
turned)." Said  R.  Hisda  to  Rabba :  "  Look  up  this  matter,  for 
in  the  evening  R.  Huna  will  inquire  about  it  of  you."  Rabba 
did  so,  and  found  the  quotation  stated  above  in  our  Mishna. 
Said  R.  Amram  to  Rabba :  "  How  can  you,  master,  decide  the 
matter  of  a  legal  marriage  from  a  money  case?"  And  he  an- 
swered :  "  Tardus !  Did  not  the  Mishna  state  documents  of 
Haliza,  etc.  (are  these  not  documents  of  legal  marriage)  ?  "  In 
the  meantime  the  pillar  of  the  college  broke,  and  each  of  the 
above  sages  claimed  that  this  happened  as  a  punishment  for  the 
disgrace  of  his  honor  (Rabba  because  he  was  insulted  by  the 
expression  of  R.  Amram,  and  the  latter  because  he  was  ashamed 
of  being  called  Tardus). 

"  A  roll  or  a  bunch  of  notes."  The  rabbis  taught :  "  What 
is  called  a  roll  ?  "  If  there  were  no  less  than  three  ;  and  a  bunch 
must  contain  the  same  number,  but  in  this  case  they  must  be 
tied  together.  Shall  we  infer  from  this  that  such  a  knot  is  to 
be  considered  as  a  sign  of  identification  ?  Said  R.  Hyya :  "  It 
treats  of  a  case  where  the  notes  of  the  bunch  were  also  rolled, 
one  in  the  other."  If  it  is  so,  then  it  is  a  roll  (already  mentioned 
above).  A  roll  means  that  each  of  the  notes  was  rolled  sep- 
arately in  it  ;  and  a  bunch  means  they  were  rolled  together. 
What  shall  be  proclaimed:  the  number?  Why,  then,  no  less 
than  three  :  must  he  not  proclaim  it  even  when  there  were  two  ? 
As  Rabbina  said  elsewhere,  that  if  one  finds  a  number  of  coins 
he  must  proclaim  that  he  found  money  without  mentioning  the 
number  and  without  explaining  what  kind  of  money,  the  same 
is  the  case  here,  he  shall  proclaim  :  "  I  have  found  documents," 
without  any  explanation  (and  the  loser  must  explain  their  con- 
dition and  how  many). 

"  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,"  etc.  If  they  belong  to  the 
creditors,  how  could  they  be  together  ?     But  perhaps  they  were 


TRACT    BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  43 

lost  by  the  creditors  while  going  to  register  them.  The  case  was 
when  they  were  already  registered.  But  perhaps  they  were  lost 
from  the  hand  of  the  register.  It  is  not  usual  for  one  to  leave 
his  registered  note  with  the  register. 

"  When  three  borrowed  from,"  etc.  For  if  they  were  lost  by 
debtors,  how  could  they  be  found  together?  But  perhaps  they 
were  lost  on  the  way  from  the  scribe's.  The  case  was  when  three 
different  handwritings  were  found.  Perhaps  they  were  lost  on 
the  way  to  the  register's?  Usually  the  creditor  registers  the 
note,  but  not  the  borrower. 

"  If  there  is,"  etc.  R.  Jeremiah  bar  Abba  said  in  the  name 
of  Rabh :  "  A  sv}x<pGovia  that  is  in  the  hand  of  the  creditor  is 
invalid  even  when  it  was  written  by  himself,  as  it  may  be  that 
he  prepared  it  in  case  the  debtor  would  give  him  the  money  at  a 
time  when  it  would  not  be  easy  for  him  to  make  a  receipt,  and 
much  less  when  it  was  written  by  a  scribe,  as  it  may  be  that  he 
expected  money  from  the  debtor,  and  while  waiting  for  it,  it 
happened  that  the  scribe  called  upon  him.  Does  not  our  Mishna, 
which  states  he  shall  do  accordingly,  contradict  Rabh  ?  As  R. 
Saphra  said  elsewhere,  if  it  were  found  between  torn  notes,  so 
also  can  be  explained  our  Mishna.  An  objection  was  raised. 
Gome  and  hear ;  "  A  ffvfxqjoovia  in  which  was  proved  by  wit- 
nesses (and  the  creditor  denies  that  he  received  the  money),  it  is 
sufficient  if  the  witnesses  admit  their  signatures."  Read :  The 
witnesses  must  be  questioned  if  they  saw  the  payment.  There 
is  another  objection  :  "  A  ffvpicpcovia  which  is  proved  by  witnesses 
is  valid."  It  means  that  the  payment  was  approved  by  the 
court,  and  this  explanation  seems  to  be  right,  as  the  latter  part 
states  that  if  there  are  no  witnesses  it  is  invalid,  and  it  cannot 
mean  that  no  witnesses  at  all,  as  this  would  be  self-evident. 
Hence  it  must  be  explained  that  when  it  was  not  approved  by 
the  court,  it  is  considered  as  if  there  were  no  witnesses.  In  ad- 
dition to  the  text  mentioned  above,  we  learn :  "  If  there  were 
no  witnesses,  but  it  was  in  the  hands  of  the  depository,  or  it  was 
placed  below  the  signatures,  it  is  valid  :  and  the  reasons  are  that 
a  depository  was  trusted  by  the  creditor ;  and  below  the  signa- 
tures, because  if  it  would  not  be  paid,  he  would  not  permit  them 
to  spoil  the  note." 


CHAPTER   II. 

LAWS  RELATING  TO  FOUND  ARTICLES,  WHICH  MAY  OR  MAY  NOT  BE 
KEPT  WITHOUT  PROCLAMATION,  AND  HOW  FOUND  ARTICLES 
SHALL    BE   CARED    FOR,  ETC. 

MISHNA  /.:  There  are  found  articles  which  belong  to  the 
finder  without  any  proclamation ;  namely,  scattered  fruits  or 
scattered  money  in  a  public  thoroughfare,  small  sheaves,  strings 
of  pressed  figs,  bread  of  a  baker  (as  all  bread  of  the  baker  is 
alike;  home  bread,  however,  differs,  and  is  recognizable),  strings 
of  fish,  pieces  of  meat,  and  shorn  wool  from  the  country  where 
it  was  shorn,  cleansed  flax,  and  stripes  of  scarlet  wool — all  these 
belong  to  the  finder  (when  it  was  found  in  such  a  place  where 
people  pass).  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah,  how- 
ever, maintains:  If  there  is  a  change  in  the  found  article,  which 
usually  ought  not  to  be,  as,  e.g.,  he  found  a  fragment  of  a  clay 
vessel  in  pressed  figs,  or  he  found  a  coin  in  a  loaf  of  bread,  he 
must  proclaim.  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  says:  All  stew  vessels 
which  are  for  sale  he  need  not  proclaim. 

GEMARA:  How  much  of  the  scattered  fruit  belongs  to 
him  without  proclaiming?  Said  R.  Itzhak:  "  If  in  a  distance 
of  four  ells  there  were  scattered  fruits  the  measure  of  kab." 
Let  us  see  in  what  condition  did  he  find  it.  If  it  was  placed  in 
such  a  way  as  dropped  unintentionally,  why  only  a  kab  ?  Even 
if  there  are  more,  it  should  be  his ;  and  if  it  was  placed  in  such 
a  manner  that  it  can  be  supposed  they  were  placed  intention- 
ally, even  less  he  should  proclaim.  Said  R.  Uqba  bar  Hama: 
"It  treats  of  a  place  where  the  grain  is  gathered  from  the  barns, 
and  if  he  found  the  size  of  one  kab  scattered  within  four  ells, 
which  it  is  too  much  trouble  to  gather,  the  owner  of  it  usually 
would  not  take  such  trouble  and  renounce  his  ownership,  but  if 
it  were  scattered  within  a  shorter  distance,  he  may  think,  '  I 
will  take  the  trouble  to  pick  it  up  afterwards,'  and  he  does  not 
renounce  his  ownership."  It  was  taught:  "  The  renouncing  of 
hope  in  regaining  a  lost  article,  which  it  is  not  yet  certain  is 
lost  {i.e.,  the  article  was  found  before  the  loss  was  known  to  the 
owner,  but  usually,  becoming  aware  of  its  loss,  he  will  not  try 

44 


TRACT   BABA    METZIA   (MIDDLE    GATE).  45 

to  regain  it).  According  to  Abayi  such  must  not  be  taken  in 
consideration,  and  Rabha,  however,  maintains  it  may."  They, 
however,  do  not  differ  when  the  article  has  a  mark  that  in  such 
a  case  it  must  be  supposed  that  when  he  will  become  aware  of 
it,  he  will  not  renounce  his  hope  to  regain  it  because  of  the  mark; 
and  even  if  thereafter  it  was  heard  that  he  had  renounced  his 
hope,  still  the  finder  has  not  acquired  title,  because  at  the  time 
he  found  it,  it  cannot  be  considered  that  the  hope  should  be  re- 
nounced when  the  owner  becomes  aware  of  its  loss,  because  there 
is  a  mark,  and  he  will  certainly  think,  ' '  I  will  try  to  search  for 
it  by  identifying  the  mark."  The  same  also  do  not  differ  when 
the  article  was  found  at  the  seashore  or  near  a  waterfall,  that  it 
belongs  to  him,  even  if  it  has  a  mark,  because  the  law  allows  it, 
as  will  be  explained  further  on ;  the  point  of  their  difference,  how- 
ever, is  in  case  the  article  has  no  mark.  Abayi  is  of  the  opinion 
that  the  finder  cannot  acquire  title  to  it,  because  the  owner  is  not 
yet  aware  of  his  loss.  Rabha,  however,  maintains  that  he  does, 
because  it  is  certain  when  the  owner  becomes  aware  of  it  that 
he  will  renounce  his  hope.  Come  and  hear.  Our  Mishna 
states:  "  Scattered  fruit,  it  is  his."  Although  he  did  not  know 
whose  it  was?  Said  R.  Uqba  b.  Hama:  "  The  Mishna  means 
a  case  in  the  season  of  gathering  the  grain  from  the  threshing 
floor,  which  is  considered  an  intentional  loss."  Come  and  hear. 
Scattered  money  belongs  to  him,  and  certainly  the  loser  of  it 
was  not  aware  when  he  lost  it  (as  if  he  were,  he  certainly  would 
pick  it  up),  and  nevertheless  it  belongs  to  the  finder.  This  can 
be  explained  as  R.  Itzhak  said  elsewhere:  "  Usually  a  man 
inspects  his  purse  frequently  (and  the  loss  of  his  money  was 
already  known  to  him  when  the  finder  picked  it  up)."  Come 
and  hear  the  other  part  of  the  Mishna:  "  Pressed  figs  and  bread 
of  a  baker  ^  it  is  his."  Why,  the  owner  was  not  aware  of  it?  It 
also  can  be  said  because  such  are  of  great  value  he  must  have 
been  aware  of  the  loss.  [The  same  was  objected  to,  based  on 
further  expression  of  our  Mishna,  "  Stripes  of  scarlet  wool," 
and  the  answer  was  the  same  as  above.]  Come  and  hear  (an- 
other objection).  "  ;^at<f0'za  which  were  found  in  a  public  thor- 
oughfare, although  they  were  near  the  field  where  they  grew, 
and  also  a  fig  tree  the  branches  of  which  were  bent  toward  the 
street,  and  one  found  figs  beneath,  the  people  are  allowed  to 
eat  these,  and  it  is  not  considered  robbery ;  they  are  free  from 
tithe."  Now  the  Boraitha  would  not  contradict  Abayi,  as  the 
cassia  are  of  great  value,  and  it  is  known  where  the  fruit  of  the 


46  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

fig  tree  would  drop ;  but  the  latter  part  of  the  same  Boraitha 
states  that  if  it  were  an  olive  tree  or  carob,  it  is  prohibited. 
Would  not  this  be  a  contradiction  of  Rabha's  statement  ?  Said 
R.  Abbahu :  "  It  is  different  with  an  olive  tree,  as  the  color  of 
the  olives  is  the  same  as  that  of  the  tree,  and  they  can  be  recog- 
nized wherever  they  are  found  *  (and  therefore  the  owner  of 
them  does  not  renounce  his  ownership,  thinking  that  any  one 
will  recognize  that  they  are  his).  If  so,  why  should  it  be  the 
same  with  the  fig  tree  mentioned  above  ?  Said  R.  Papa:  When 
figs  drop,  they  become  soiled  (therefore  their  owner  does  not 
care  for  them  any  more).  Come  and  hear.  A  thief  or  a  robber 
who  took  an  article  from  one  and  gave  it  to  another,  or  an  arti- 
cle falls  into  the  Jordan  and  is  washed  up  at  another  place, 
and  some  one  picked  it  up,  the  latter  is  entitled  to  it.  Now 
this  would  be  correct  concerning  a  robber  or  the  Jordan,  where 
the  owner  sees  his  article  lost,  and  renounces  his  hope  of  regain- 
ing it;  but  with  the  case  of  a  thief,  has  then  the  owner  seen 
him,  that  he  should  renounce  his  hope  ?  R.  Papa  interprets  the 
Boraitha,  saying  that  it  treats  of  an  armed  robber;  but  is  it  not 
the  same  as  a  robber,  which  case  has  already  been  mentioned  ? 
It  treats  of  two  kinds  of  robbers.  Come  and  hear:  "  If  the 
river  has  flooded  one's  beams,  wood,  or  stones,  and  carried 
them  away  to  another  field,  the  latter  may  use  them,  because 
their  owner  has  lost  his  hope."  We  see  that  the  reason  is 
because  it  was  certain  that  the  one  had  renounced  his  hope 
already,  but  when  uncertain  it  is  not  to  be  used  (and  this  would 
contradict  Rabha).  The  case  was  that  the  owners  could  have 
saved  the  articles;  if  so,  how  is  the  latter  part  of  the  same  to 
be  understood  ?  If  the  owner  came  to  get  them,  he  is  obliged 
to  return  them.  Now,  why  going  to  get  them  ?  If  he  could 
save  them  he  should  be  obliged  to  return,  even  if  he  had  not 
come  to  get  them,  etc.  The  case  was  that  he  could  save  them 
with  great  trouble.  If  he  came  to  get  them,  we  see  that  he  had 
not  renounced  his  hope;  and  if  not,  it  is  to  be  supposed  that 
hope  is  renounced.  Come  and  hear  (another  objection).  How 
can  a  case  be  where  one  shall  separate  heave-offering  without 
the  knowledge  of  its  owner,  and  nevertheless  the  heave-offering 

*  The  text  here  is  complicated,  and  some  of  the  commentators  try  to  correct  it ; 
nevertheless,  Rashi's  opinion  and  Tosphat's  opinion  concerning  it  differ  ;  the  com- 
mentators after  them,  such  as  Lurie  and  Meier  of  Lublin,  and  also  Edlias  (Marsha), 
discuss  it  also.  We,  however,  have  translated  as  best  we  could,  so  as  to  make  it 
understood. 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  47 

shall  be  valid  ?  Thus,  if  one  goes  to  the  field  of  his  neighbor 
and  gathers  grain,  and  has  separated  the  heave-offering  without 
knowledge  of  the  owner,  if  robbery  can  be  suspected,  the  heave- 
ofTering  is  not  valid;  and  if  not,  it  is;  and  how  docs  he  know 
that  there  is  no  robbery  ?  When  the  owner  appears  while  his 
neighbor  is  on  his  field  engaged  in  the  above-stated  work,  and 
said  to  him,  You  should  separate  for  the  priest  from  the  better 
ones ;  then,  if  better  ones  are  found,  the  heave-oiTering  is 
valid,  but  if  not  it  is  invalid  (because  the  remark  of  the  owner 
was  but  ironical,  as  there  were  no  better  ones).  If,  however, 
the  owner  had  added  to  the  heave-offering,  it  is  valid,  although 
better  ones  were  not  to  be  found.  We  see,  then,  if  there  were 
better  ones  the  heave  offering  is  valid,  though  the  separator  did 
not  know  of  it  while  doing  so  (let  it  be  the  same  with  regard  to 
renouncing  hope,  that  even  when  it  comes  afterwards,  the  finder 
shall  acquire  title  even  before  the  renouncing  was  known  ?). 
Rabha  explained  this  in  order  that  the  Boraitha  shall  agree  with 
Abayi's  theory:  "  The  owner,  with  his  remark,  appoints  his 
neighbor  to  be  his  messenger."  (Said  the  Gemara:)  It  seems 
that  Rabha's  explanation  is  correct,  for  if  he  would  not  become 
his  messenger,  how  can  his  act  be  of  any  value  ?  Is  it  not  writ- 
ten [Numb,  xviii.  28]:  "Thus  shall  ye  also  offer,"  etc.,  and 
from  the  word  "  also,"  which  is  superfluous,  it  is  declared  that 
it  includes  a  messenger,  and  it  is  also  declared  there  that  as  the 
word  "  ye"  means  "  it  shall  be  done  intentionally,"  so  also  if 
this  is  done  by  the  messenger  the  intention  is  necessary  ?  (hence 
we  see  that  only  a  messenger  has  the  right  to  separate  heave- 
offering),  and  the  above  Boraitha  must  therefore  be  explained 
that  he  appointed  him  as  a  messenger,  saying,  "  Go  and  sepa- 
rate " ;  but  he  did  not  determine  of  which  grain  he  should  sepa- 
rate. And  usually  the  owners  separate  from  the  middle  one; 
the  messenger,  however,  does  so  from  the  better  one;  now 
when  the  owner  comes  and  says,  "  Why  did  you  not  separate 
from  the  better  one  ? "  if  there  is  to  be  found  still  better  than 
he  had  separated,  his  act  is  valid ;  but  if  not,  the  saying  of  the 
owner  must  be  considered  ironical,  and  the  messenger's  act  is 
of  no  avail. 

Amaimar,  Mar  Zutra,  and  R.  Ashi  happened  to  be  in  the  gar- 
den of  Mari  bar  Issak,  and  the  gardener  placed  before  them 
dates  and  pomegranates.  Amaimar  and  R.  Ashi  partook.  Mar 
Zjutra,  however,  did  not ;  meanwhile  the  host  came  and  said  to 
his  gardener:  "  Why  did  you  not  serve  the  rabbis  with  the  best 


48  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

ones?"  Said  both  Amaimar  and  R.  Ashi  to  Mar  Zutra: 
"  Why  does  the  master  not  partake  of  it  now  ?  Have  we  not 
learned  if  better  ones  are  to  be  found  the  heave-offering  is 
valid  ?  "  And  he  answered  :  "  So  said  Rabha,  that  this  expres- 
sion is  to  be  cited  in  case  of  heave-offerings  only,  because  it  is  a 
meritorious  act,  and  it  may  be  assumed  that  the  owner  made 
his  remark  with  good  intentions ;  but  here,  it  can  be  said  that 
he  said  so  to  the  gardener  only  not  to  be  ashamed  (to  be  con- 
sidered niggardly)."  Come  and  hear.  R.  Johanan  said  in  the 
name  of  R.  Ishmael  b.  Jehouzadok:  "Whence  do  we  know 
that  a  lost  article,  which  was  flooded,  is  allowed  to  be  used  by 
one  ?  Because  it  is  written  [Deut.  xxii.  3] :  'In  like  manner 
shalt  thou  do  with  his  ass,  and  in  like  manner  shalt  thou  do 
with  his  raiment,  and  in  like  manner  shalt  thou  do  with  every 
lost  thing  of  thy  brother's  which  may  have  been  lost  by  him, 
and  which  thou  hast  found.'  From  which  it  is  deduced  that 
when  it  is  lost  to  him,  but  not  to  others;  exclude,  then,  the 
flooded  article,  which  is  lost  to  him  and  also  for  every  one ;  and 
as  in  the  case  of  flooding  the  article  is  allowed  for  use,  no  mat- 
ter whether  it  had  a  mark  or  not,  the  same  is  the  case  with 
an  article  which  is  not  allowed  for  use,  when  it  is  not  certain 
that  the  owner  of  it  has  renounced  his  hope.  No  matter 
whether  the  article  has  a  mark  or  not,  it  is  prohibited,  even  in 
case  where  the  hope  would  be  renounced  by  the  owner  imme- 
diately after  he  became  aware  of  his  loss."  Hence  Rabha's 
statement  is  objected  to,  and  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to 
Abayi,  as  this  is  one  of  the  six  things.  (See  Baba  Kama,  p.  163.)  * 
Said  R.  Achi'  the  son  of  Rabha  to  R.  Ashi:  "  Now  as  it  is 
decided  that  Rabha's  statement  is  objected  to,  how  then  do  we 
eat  dates  which  the  wind  blows  away  to  the  highway  ?  "  And 
he  answered:  "  Because  there  are  insects  which  consume  them; 
the  owners  of  the  dates  therefore  renounce  their  hope  of  such." 
The  former  questioned  again:  "  In  case  the  trees  belong  to 
orphans,  who  are  disqualified  to  renounce  their  hope,  let  there- 
fore all  fallen  dates  not  be  used."  And  he  rejoined:  "  Must 
we  then  consider  that  the  whole  valley  belongs  to  orphans?" 
The  former  said  again:  "  But  if  it  be  known  that  such  is  the 
case,  how  is  the  law?"  And  he  rejoined:  "Then  it  is  pro- 
hibited." 

"  Small  sheaves,"  etc.      If  the  mark  on  the  article  in  ques- 

*  la  Tract  Sanhederin  the  six  cases  will  be  named. 


TRACT  BAB  A  METZIA  (MIDDLE  GATE).  49 

tion  was  of  such  a  natiire  that  it  could  be  effaced  by  stepping 
on  it,  Rabba  said:  "That  such  a  mark  is  not  to  be  considered." 
Rabha,  however,  said:  "  It  is."  An  objection  was  raised  fror-; 
our  Mishna.  Small  sheaves  in  public  thoroughfare  may  be  used 
without  proclamation,  but  if  they  were  found  on  private  ground 
he  may  take  it  provided  he  proclaims.     Now  how  was  the  case  ? 

If  it  treats  of  such  that  have  not  a  mark,  what  shall  he  pro- 
claim ?  We  must,  therefore,  assume  that  although  they  have 
a  mark  they  are  his  if  found  in  public  thoroughfares,  because 
the  mark  is  usually  effaced  by  stepping  upon  it;  hence  it  is  an 
objection  to  Rabha.  He  may  say  that  the  Mishna  treats  of 
such  that  have  not  a  mark,  and  your  question,  What  shall  he 
proclaim  if  on  private  ground?  is  to  be  answered  that  he  shall 
proclaim  the  place  where  it  was  found,  as  it  was  taught  that 
both  sages  mentioned  above  differ  concerning  the  place.  Rabha 
maintains  that  it  is  a  mark,  and  Rabba  says  it  is  not.* 

Said  R.  Zbid  in  the  name  of  Rabha:  "  The  rule  concerning 
a  lost  article  is  this,  as  soon  as  the  owner  exclaims,  '  Woe,  the 
damage  I  have  had ! '  he  does  not  care  to  search  for  it  any  more 
(it  is  considered  renouncing  of  hope,  etc.)."  The  same  said 
again,  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority:  "  The  Halakha  pre- 
vails that  sheaves  on  public  ground  belong  to  the  finder  in  all 
cases;  however,  in  private  thoroughfares,  if  it  was  found  in  such 
a  manner  indicating  that  it  was  dropped,  it  can  be  used,  and  if 
indicating  that  it  was  placed  so  intentionally,  he  may  take  it 
providing  he  proclaims ;  and  in  both  cases  it  is  only  when  it  has 
no  distinguishing  mark;  but  if  there  were,  no  matter  in  which 
place,  and  how  they  were  placed,  he  must  proclaim." 

"Strings  of  fish,''  etc.  Why?  Let  the  knot  be  the  re- 
quired mark  ?  It  means,  i.e.,  that  it  was  found  in  the  way  as 
fishermen  usually  tie  it;  but  let  the  number  be  the  required 
mark.     Such  a  number  is  used  by  all  fishermen. 

R.  Shesheth  was  questioned  whether  a  number  is  considered 
a  distinguishing  mark  or  not,  and  he  answered:  "  We  have 
learned  this  in  the  following:  'If  one  found  silver  or  copper 
vessels,  a  cassiteron  of  tin,  or  any  other  metal  vessel,  the  finder 
need  not  return  it,  unless  the  owner  of  it  identify  it  by  a  mark 

*  In  the  text  here  similar  questions  are  continued  from  the  Mishna  and  Boraithas 
concerning  marks  and  articles  which  are  destroj-ed  by  stepping  upon  them,  and  also 
about  places,  whether  it  should  be  considered  a  mark  for  proclamation  or  not. 
Objections  and  answers  are  made  to  the  opinions  of  the  above  sages  in  the  same 
manner  as  above,  which  is  already  translated,  and  therefore  we  have  omitted  them. 
4 


so  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

or  the  exact  weight  of  it. '  Now,  as  the  weight  is  a  mark,  the 
same  is  the  case  with  the  size  and  number." 

"  Arid  pieces  of  meat,''  etc.  Why  let  the  weight  be  a  mark? 
when  the  Aveight  was  as  customary  with  all  butchers.  But  let 
the  kind  of  the  piece  be  a  mark,  e.g.,  leg  or  shoulder,  etc. 
Have  we  not  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  If  one  found 
pieces  of  fish  or  a  bitten  fish,  he  must  proclaim  ;  barrels  of  wine, 
oil,  grain,  dry  figs,  and  olives  are  his  ?  It  treats  of  a  case  when 
there  was  a  distinguishing  mark  in  cutting  it,  as  Rabba  bar  R. 
Huna  used  to  cut  it  in  the  form  of  a  triangle.  It  is  so  also  to 
be  inferred  from  the  statement  "  a  bitten  fish  "  (and  this  is  cer- 
tainly a  distinguishing  mark,  so  also  pieces  of  fish  mean  which 
were  cut  differently).  The  master  says  barrels  of  wine,  etc. ; 
but  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Mishna  further  on :  Pitchers  of 
wine  or  oil  he  must  proclaim  ?  Said  R.  Zeira  in  the  name  of 
Rabh:  "  The  Mishna  treats  of  a  case  when  the  pitchers  were 
sealed  and  marked.  If  it  is  so,  then  the  Boraitha  treats  of  a 
case  when  they  were  found  open :  must  it  not  be  considered  an 
intentional  loss  {i.e.,  when  open  it  would  be  spoiled  by  reptiles, 
vermin,  etc.)?  " 

Said  R.  Houshea:  "  It  treats  of  a  case  when  it  was  covered 
with  a  cork,  and  not  smeared  with  clay,"*  Abayi,  however, 
said:  "  It  may  treat  also  of  sealed  ones,  and  nevertheless  it  does 
not  contradict  the  Mishna,  as  the  Mishna  speaks  of  a  case  when 
the  market  for  wine  was  not  yet  opened,  and  the  barrel  found 
was  of  one  who  had  sealed  it  with  a  mark  which  could  be  rec- 
ognized. The  Boraitha,  however,  speaks  of  a  case  after  the 
market  was  opened,  and  usually  the  marks  on  the  barrels  were 
all  alike,  and  could  not  be  distinguished  from  each  other,  as  it 
happened  with  Jacob  bar  Abba,  who  found  a  barrel  of  wine 
after  the  market  was  open,  and  he  questioned  Abayi  and  was 
told  that  he  may  keep  it  for  himself." 

R.  Bibi  questioned  R.  Na'hman:  "  Is  the  place  (where  it 
was  found)  considered  a  mark  or  not?"  And  he  answered: 
"  This  we  have  learned  in  the  above  Boraitha:  '  If  one  found 
barrels  of  wine,  etc.,  they  are  his';  now  if  the  place  would  be 
considered  a  mark,  then  why  should  he  not  proclaim  the  place  ?  ' ' 
R.  Zbid,  however,  said:  "  This  is  no  support,  as  it  may  treat 

*  Rashi  explains  it  thus  :  In  their  time  the  barrels  were' of  clay,  and  also  the 
cork,  and  they  usually  put  glue  around  the  cork  to  save  the  smell.  In  the  month  of 
Shebat  or  Nissan,  when  usually  the  wine  merchants  would  sell  to  the  store-keepers 
several  barrels  at  once,  they  would  open  each  of  them,  to  taste,  and  to  again  cover  it. 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  51 

of  a  case  that  when  he  found  it  on  a  dock  where  many  barrels 
were  placed." 

R.  Mari  said:  "  The  reason  why  the  sages  decided  that  the 
place  is  not  to  be  considered  as  a  mark,  was  because  it  can  be 
said  to  him  who  claims  that  the  article  was  lost  by  him  in  this 
place,  that  there  were  men  passing  the  same,  and  another  one 
may  have  lost  it  there." 

It  happened  that  one  found  unripe  dates*  near  the  wine- 
press room,  and  questioned  Rabh,  and  was  told  that  he  may 
keep  it  for  himself;  the  man,  however,  hesitating,  and  Rabh 
said  to  him:  "  You  may  give  a  part  of  it  to  my  son,  Hyah." 
Shall  we  assume  that  Rabh  holds  that  a  place  is  not  to  be  con- 
sidered as  a  mark  ? 

Said  R.  Abba:  "  Rabh's  reason  was,  it  was  seen  on  this 
article  that  the  owner  had  renounced  his  hope  in  it,  as  it  was 
already  mouldy," 

*'  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said,''  etc.  What  does  he  mean  by 
the  expression  new  vessels  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of 
Samuel:  "  By  the  word  new  he  means  that  the  eye  was  not 
acquainted  with  it."  How  was  the  case  if  the  vessels  had  a 
mark  ?  What  is  it  if  the  eye  was  not  yet  acquainted  with  them, 
and  if  there  was  no  mark  ?  What  use  is  it  that  the  eye  should 
be  acquainted  with  them  ?  It  can  be  used  to  return  it  to  a 
young  scholar  who  claims  that  he  recognized  them  by  seeing. 
If  the  eye  was  acquainted  with  them,  we  do  so;  if  not,  we  do 
not.  As  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel  in  the  follow- 
ing three  things.  The  rabbis  hesitate  to  tell  the  truth  when 
being  questioned  in  a  tractate  {e.g.,  if  some  one  asked,  can  you 
repeat  the  tractate  so  and  so  by  heart,  they  answer  no,  although 
it  is  not  true,  out  of  modesty),  and  in  conversation  between  him 
and  his  wife,  and  also  about  the  hospitality  of  a  private  one, 
they  usually  answer  in  the  negative,  although  it  is  not  so 
(because  people  should  not  abuse  his  liberality  and  bring  the 
man  to  poverty).  And  when  it  was  questioned  to  what  purpose 
did  Samuel  declare  the  above.  Mar  Zutra  answered:  "  It  was 
said  with  regard  to  returning  a  lost  thing  to  one  of  the  rabbis, 
if  he  recognized  it  with  his  eye,  if  we  know  that  only  in  the 

*  The  text  reads  Kufra,  and  Rashi  explains  it  to  mean  pitch.  We,  however, 
cannot  agree  with  such  an  explanation,  as  the  place  where  it  was  found,  and  also 
that  Rabh  told  him  to  give  a  part  of  it  to  his  son,  could  not  be  with  such  an  article. 
We  find  the  same  word  Kufra  in  Baba  Kama,  p.  140,  which  is  translated  as  we  have 
it  here. 


52  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

above  three  things  he  hesitates  to  tell  the  truth,  but  in  all  other 
things  he  speaks  the  truth,  then  the  article  in  question  is  to  be 
returned  to  him,  but  not  otherwise." 

It  happened  that  a  silver  goblet  was  stolen  from  Mar  Zutra 
the  pious,  when  he  was  in  a  hospes ;  in  the  mean  time  he  saw 
a  young  man  who  dried  his  hands,  after  washing,  with  the  gar- 
ment of  another,  and  he  thought,  this  man  does  not  care  for  his 
neighbor's  money,  and  he  accused  him  until  he  confessed  that 
he  stole  the  goblet.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Simeon 
b.  Elazar  admits  that  new  vessels,  in  case  the  eye  was  familiar 
with  them,  that  he  must  proclaim  them;  however,  the  follow- 
ing new  vessels  which  were  not  familiar  to  the  eye  he  need  not : 
namely,  strings  of  needles,  spinning  instruments,  and  strings  of 
hooks,  but  only  when  he  found  single  strings;  if,  however,  he 
found  a  pair  of  each,  he  must  proclaim.  The  same  R.  Simeon 
used  to  say:  "  If  one  saved  something  from  a  lion,  a  bear,  a 
tiger,  or  a  bardalas,  or  from  the  sea,  or  if  he  found  it  on  a  dock 
or  in  one  of  the  great  markets,  and  in  any  place  where  it  is 
crowded,  he  may  keep  it  for  himself,  as  the  owner  of  it  has 
surely  renounced  hope.*  It  happened  that  one  found  four  zuz 
tied  up  in  a  rag,  and  was  dropped  in  the  river  Biron,  and  he 
came  before  R.  Jehudah  and  was  told  to  proclaim.  Why  so ; 
is  it  not  equal  to  the  depth  of  a  sea,  as  stated  above  ?  With  the 
river  Biron  is  different,  because  it  was  frequently  cleaned,  and 
there  were  stones  and  fences  for  fishing,  the  loser  may  not 
renounce  his  hope  in  regaining  it;  furthermore  that  the  majority 
of  the  fishers  and  the  cleaners  of  that  river  were  Israelites,  and 
the  loser  may  think  that  in  case  an  Israelite  finds  it  he  may 
return  it. 

R.  Jehudah  was  walking  behind  Mar  Samuel  in  the  market, 
where  wheat  prepared  for  fermenting  was  sold,  and  R.  Jehudah 
questioned  him :  How  would  be  the  case  if  some  one  should 
find  a  purse  here  ?  And  he  answered :  It  would  belong  to  the 
finder.  But  how  if  an  Israelite  would  come  and  give  the  mark 
of  it  ?  (the  former  questioned  again).  And  Mar  Samuel  answered, 
then  he  would  be  obliged  to  return.  The  former  rejoined:  Are 
not  the  two  decisions  contradictory  ?  And  he  answered :  I 
mean  not  according  to  the  exact  law,  but  by  moderating  the 

*  In  the  text  the  discoursing  continues  on  what  places  must  be  considered  always 
crowded,  and  what  not ;  if  the  synagogues  and  houses  of  learning  are  among  them, 
and  what  kind  of  people,  Israelites  or  heathen,  all  of  which  is  of  no  importance,  and 
therefore  we  have  omitted  it. 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  53 

same,  as  it  happened  to  my  father,  who  found  certain  asses  in 
a  desert  and  returned  them  to  the  owner  after  an  elapse  of 
twelve  months ;  though  he  was  not  obliged  to  do  so  in  accord- 
ance with  the  strict  law,  he  nevertheless  did  so  by  moderating 
the  same.  Rabha  happened  to  walk  behind  R.  Na'hman  in  the 
market  of  tanners,  according  to  others  in  the  market  where  the 
rabbis  used  to  assemble,  and  he  questioned  him :  How  if  one  would 
find  here  a  purse  ?  And  he  answered:  It  would  belong  to  him. 
And  how  if  an  Israelite  would  claim  that  it  is  his  by  giving  a 
mark  ?  And  he  answered  it  counts  for  nothing;  but  if  he  claims 
with  a  certainty  that  it  is  surely  his,  Rabha  said  again.  And  the 
latter  rejoined,  it  would  be  equal  to  him  who  cries  for  his  col- 
lapsed house  or  for  his  sunken  ship  (as  the  ownership  of  it  is 
lost  with  the  losing). 

There  was  a  vulture  which  captured  meat  in  the  market,  and 
put  it  between  the  trees  of  Bar  Marian,  and  when  Bar  Marian 
came  to  question  Abayi,  he  was  told  to  keep  it  for  himself. 
Although  the  majority  of  the  inhabitants  were  Israelites,  hence 
infer  from  this  that  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with 
R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  of  our  Mishna,  even  in  case  the  majority 
are  Israelites?  With  the  vulture  it  is  different,  as  it  may  be  just 
as  the  depth  of  the  sea.  But  did  not  Rabh  declare  that  meat 
which  was  hidden  from  the  eye  must  not  be  eaten  for  fear  it  is 
not  legally  slaughtered  ?  It  may  be  said  that  Bar  Marian  saw 
the  vulture  taking  it  from  a  place  where  legal  meat  was  sold. 
R.  Hanina  found  a  slaughtered  goat  on  the  way  from  Tiberias 
to  Ziporus,  and  he  was  allowed  to  use  it.  Said  R.  Ami :  It  was 
allowed  as  a  found  article  in  a  crowded  place,  in  accordance 
with  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar;  and  also  as  a  legal  slaughter  in 
accordance  with  R.  Hananiah  b.  R.  Jose  the  Galilean  of  the 
following  Boraitha :  If  one  has  lost  his  goats  or  hens,  and  there- 
after he  found  them  slaughtered,  R.  Jehudah  prohibited  their 
use,  and  R.  Hananiah  b.  R.  Jose  the  Galilean  allowed  it.  Said 
Rabbi :  It  seems  that  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah  is  correct  when 
he  found  it  in  rubbish,  and  the  opinion  of  R.  Hananiah  is  cor- 
rect when  he  found  it  in  a  house.  Infer  from  all  this  that  if 
one  finds  an  article  in  a  crowded  place  it  is  his,  even  when  the 
majority  of  the  inhabitants  are  Israelites.  Said  Rabha:  Such 
meat  may  be  used  even  when  the  majority  of  the  inhabitants 
are  heathen,  but  the  majority  of  the  butchers  are  Israelites. 
R.  Ami  found  slaughtered  pigeons  on  the  way  from  Tiberias 
to  Ziporus,  and  he  questioned  R.  Assi,  according  to  others  R. 


54  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Johanan,  and  according  to  still  others  he  questioned  the  col- 
lege, and  was  told  to  keep  it  for  himself.  R.  Itzhak  of  Naph'ha 
found  a  ball  of  cord,  of  which  nets  were  made,  and  he  came 
before  R.  Johanan  or  in  the  college,  and  was  told  to  keep  it  for 
himself. 

MISHNA  //.  :  The  following  articles  he  must  proclaim: 
When  he  found  a  vessel  containing  fruit  or  an  empty  one, 
money  in  a  purse  or  an  empty  one,  heaps  of  fruit  or  heaps  of 
money,  or  even  three  coins  which  were  one  upon  another, 
sheaves  in  private  ground  and  bread  made  in  a  household,  and 
shorn  wool  which  looks  as  if  it  was  already  in  the  hand  of  a 
master,  pitchers  of  wine  or  oil,  all  these  he  must  proclaim. 

GEMARA :  The  Mishna  treats  of  a  case  when  the  fruit  was 
found  in  the  vessel,  and  the  money  in  the  purse ;  but  how  is  it 
if  the  vessel  was  empty  and  fruit  was  scattered  near  by,  or  the 
purse  was  empty  and  the  money  was  near  it  ?  It  would  be  his 
without  any  proclamation,  and  the  rabbis  taught  the  same 
plainly  in  a  Boraitha,  with  the  addition  that  if  a  part  of  it  was 
in  the  vessel  or  in  the  purse,  and  another  part  on  the  ground 
near  by,  he  must  proclaim.  Does  this  not  contradict  the  follow- 
ing: If  one  has  found  an  article  which  has  no  mark,  near  an 
article  which  has  a  mark,  he  must  proclaim ;  and  if  the  owner 
comes  declaring  the  mark,  and  takes  the  article,  he  is  also 
entitled  to  the  other  one  which  was  without  a  mark  (hence  the 
vessel  and  the  fruit  in  question  should  be  proclaimed)  ?  Said 
R.  Zbid:  This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  Boraitha  which 
states  it  is  his  treats  of,  e.g.,  an  empty  vat  and  near  it  flax  (it  is 
not  to  be  supposed  that  the  flax  fell  out  of  the  vat,  as  some 
would  remain  there,  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  an  empty 
purse  and  money  near  it),  and  the  Boraitha  which  states  it 
should  be  proclaimed  treats  of  an  empty  basket,  and  fruit  which 
is  supposed  to  have  fallen  out  of  the  basket.  R.  Papa,  how- 
ever, maintains  that  both  Boraithas  may  treat  of  a  basket  and 
fruit,  but  one  speaks  of  a  case  where  some  was  left  in  the 
basket,  and  the  other  one  treats  when  it  was  entirely  empty; 
and  if  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  both  treat  of  a  case  when 
nothing  was  left,  but  in  one  case  the  face  of  the  vessel  was 
turned  toward  the  fruit,  and  in  the  other  case  the  vessel  was 
with  a  rim  (so  if  the  fruit  which  was  found  near  it  would  fall  from 
the  vessel,  some  of  it  would  remain  there  because  of  the  rim). 

"  Heaps  of  fruit,''  etc.  Infer  from  this  that  the  number  is 
a  mark?      Perhaps  the  plurality   stated  in    the   Mishna  is  not 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  55 

correct,  as  it  ought  to  be  singular.     If  so,  infer  from  it  that 
"  place  "  is  a  mark?     Perhaps  the  plurality  is  correct.* 

Three  coins  one  upon  the  other,''  etc.  Said  R.  Itzhak  of 
Magdahlif  Only  when  they  were  like  a  steeple.  The  same  we 
have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  If  one  found  scattered 
coins,  they  are  his ;  if,  however,  they  were  lying  in  a  steeple- 
like manner,  he  must  proclaim.  And  what  is  to  be  understood 
as  steeple-like  manner  ?  Where  three  coins  were  lying  one 
upon  another. 

Does  not  the  Boraitha  contradict  itself?  It  begins  "  scat- 
tered money,"  of  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  if  it  was  not 
entirely  scattered,  but  in  the  condition  where  a  part  overlapped 
another,  and  the  other  part  was  on  the  ground,  it  must  be  pro- 
claimed ;  and  immediately  after  it  states  that  it  was  in  a  steeple- 
like manner,  etc.,  of  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  if  they  were 
not  so  but  overlapped,  it  is  his  ?  The  Tana  is  of  the  opinion 
that  if  they  were  not  placed  in  a  steeple-like  manner  it  is  con- 
sidered scattered. 

Said  R.  Hanina:  "  The  case  in  question  speaks  of  coins  of 
three  different  rulers;  but  if  they  were  of  the  very  same  ruler, 
they  are  his."  How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  If  they  were 
placed  in  a  steeple-like  manner,  he  must  certainly  proclaim,  no 
matter  of  what  ruler  they  are;  and  if  scattered,  even  if  they  are 
from  three  rulers;  what  is  it  ?  Therefore  if  the  statement  was 
made  by  R.  Hanina,  it  is  as  follows:  The  case  is  only  when  the 
three  coins  were  placed  as  if  they  were  of  three  rulers:  viz.,  the 
larger  one  at  the  bottom,  the  middle  one,  which  was  a  little 
smaller,  upon  it,  and  the  third,  a  still  smaller  one,  on  the  top, 
which  indicates  that  some  one  placed  it  so  intentionally;  but  if 
the  coins  were  of  one  ruler  and  of  one  kind,  that  all  were  alike, 
even  if  they  were  one  upon  the  other,  it  is  his,  as  it  may  hap- 
pen that  they  were  lost  by  the  owner  in  such  a  manner.  R. 
Johanan,  however,  is  of  the  opinion  that  even  if  they  were  from 
one  ruler  he  must  proclaim. 

*  Such  a  discussion  or  question  and  answer  occurs  very  seldom,  if  this  be  not 
the  only  one,  in  the  whole  Talmud,  and  it  shows  that  the  sages  of  the  Gemara  were 
doubtful  whether  the  Mishna  was  transmitted  to  them  correctly  ;  in  other  words,  they 
did  not  know  exactly  whether  the  paragraph  submitted  to  them  was  a  correct  transla- 
tion from  the  original.     Mark  this. 

f  The  literal  translation  of  the  word  "  Magdahl  "  is  steeple,  or  turret ;  and  Itzhak 
of  Magdahl  means  the  Itzhak  who  delivered  the  Halakha  of  Magdahl.  See  Hacha'h- 
lutz  by  Schur,  in  the  chapter  where  he  discusses  about  the  names  of  the  Tanaim  and 
Amouraim,  who  were  named  according  to  the  Halakha  they  taught. 


S6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

What  shall  he  proclaim  ?  If  the  number,  why  then  three; 
even  two  should  be  the  same.  Said  Rabbina:  He  proclaims 
the  kind  of  coin.  R.  Ashi  questioned:  If  they  were  placed  like 
the  stones  of  Markullus  (an  idol  of  ancient  times  which  was 
worshipped  by  putting  stones  one  upon  the  other),  what  is 
the  law  ?  Come  and  hear.  There  is  a  Boraitha :  Scattered 
money,  it  is  his;  however,  like  the  stones  of  Kullis,  he  must 
proclaim.  And  how  were  the  above  stones  placed  ?  Two  on 
either  side  and  one  on  top  of  both.  The  rabbis  taught:  If  one 
finds  a  sala  in  the  market,  and  his  neighbor  claims  it  is  his,  giv- 
ing a  mark  that  it  is  new,  it  is  a  coin  of  Nero  or  of  another  ruler, 
he  says  nothing ;  and  even  if  he  says  my  name  is  written  upon 
it,  it  counts  for  nothing,  because  on  a  coin  no  mark  is  to  be 
considered,  as  he  may  nevertheless  have  given  it  away  to  some 
one  and  it  was  lost  by  the  latter. 

MISHNA  ///. :  If  one  found  under  a  wooden  wall,  or  a  brick 
one,  pigeons  tied  one  to  the  other,  or  if  they  were  placed  on  a 
thoroughfare  of  a  private  field,  he  must  not  touch  them.  The 
same  is  the  case  with  a  covered  vessel  found  in  rubbish;  if, 
however,  it  was  uncovered,  he  may  take  it  and  proclaim. 

GEMARA:  Why  shall  it  not  be  touched  ?  Because  it  may 
be  that  some  one  has  hid  it,  but  it  has  no  mark  on  it  (so  if  it 
would  be  taken  away  he  could  not  regain  it),  therefore  it  must 
be  left  until  the  owner  will  come  and  take  it.  But  why  should 
not  the  tying  be  ^  distinguishing  mark  ?  Said  R.  Abba  b. 
Zabda  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  It  means  that  they  were  tied,  as 
usually,  at  the  wings,  but  let  then  the  place  be  a  mark.  Said 
R.  Uqba  bar  Hama:  When  they  were  jumping;  if  jumping, 
then  it  may  be  that  they  were  coming  from  some  other  place, 
and  should  be  allowed.  Yea,  it  may  be  so,  and  it  may  be  also 
that  one  hid  them  purposely,  and  in  such  a  doubtful  case  R. 
Abba  b.  Zabda  declared,  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  it  should 
not  be  taken  from  the  very  first ;  but  if  one  nevertheless  took 
it,  he  is  not  to  be  compelled  to  return  it. 

"  If  he  found  a  covered  vessel,''  etc.  This  contradicts  the 
following:  If  he  found  a  vessel  hidden  in  rubbish,  he  may  take 
it  and  proclaim,  because  usually  the  rubbish  will  be  removed 
and  some  one  else  may  take  possession  of  the  vessel  (hence  you 
see  that  he  may  take  it,  and  our  Mishna  states  it  shall  not  be 
touched?).  Said  R.  Zbid:  This  presents  no  difficulty.  The 
Mishna  treats  of  Kuva  and  Goblets,  and  the  Boraitha  treats  of 
small  knives  and  double-pronged  zincked  forks  which  were  mixed 


TRACT  BABA  METZIA  (MIDDLE  GATE).     57 

unintentionally  with  the  rubbish.  R.  Papa,  however,  says:  In 
both,  goblets  were  meant,  but  the  Mishna  treats  of  rubbish  which 
is  not  to  be  removed,  and  the  Boraitha  of  that  which  is  to  be; 
but  if  it  is  to  be  removed,  the  article  which  is  there  was  cer- 
tainly put  there  intentionally  (it  means  that  the  owner  does  not 
intend  to  make  use  of  it  any  more),  therefore  we  must  say  that 
the  rubbish  in  question  was  of  a  kind  which  is  not  to  be  re- 
moved, but  afterwards  it  was  decided  that  it  should  be.  Ac- 
cording to  R.  Papa's  theory  it  is  correct  what  the  Boraitha 
adds,  "  as  usually  rubbish  will  be  removed,"  but  according  to 
R.  Zbid's  theory,  how  is  this  additional  expression  to  be  under- 
stood ?  Read  "  as  usually  small  vessels  are  thrown  away  with 
rubbish." 

MISHNA  IV. :  If  one  found  anything  in  a  heap  of  rubbish 
or  in  an  old  brick  wall,  it  is  his ;  if,  however,  in  a  new  wall,  in 
the  outer  part,  it  is  his ;  if  in  the  inner  part,  it  belongs  to  the 
owner.  If,  however,  the  house  was  rented,  if  even  he  found  it 
in  the  Aouse  it  is  his. 

GEMARA:  It  was  learned  that  the  reason  was  that  the 
finder  may  say,  that  this  article  was  hidden  by  the  Amorites. 
But  only  the  Amorites  hide  things,  and  the  Israelites  not  ?  It 
means  when  the  vessel  seemed  to  be  antique. 

*'  If  it  was  a  new  one,'"  etc.  Said  R.  Ashi:  If  the  article 
was  a  knife,  and  the  handle  was  from  the  outside,  it  is  supposed 
it  was  placed  there  by  some  stranger ;  and  if  it  was  from  the 
inside,  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  it  was  put  there  by  the  owner 
of  the  house.  The  same  is  the  case  with  a  purse :  it  must  be 
investigated  whether  the  opening  of  the  purse  is  outside  or 
inside.  If  so,  why  does  our  Mishna  state,  "  if  from  the  outside 
it  is  his,"  without  any  distinction  whether  the  handle  or  the 
opening  of  the  purse  was  placed  outside  or  inside  ?  Our  Mishna 
treats  of  round  or  roundish  articles,  which  on  all  sides  are  alike. 
There  is  a  Boraitha  in  addition  to  it,  that  if  the  articles  were 
found  on  both  sides,  they  are  to  be  divided  between  the  finder 
and  the  owner. 

"  If  it  was  rented,"  etc.  Why  so  ?  Let  us  see  who  was  the 
last  tenant.  Said  Resh  Lakish  in  the  name  of  Bar  Kapara:  It 
speaks  of  a  case  when  it  was  rented  to  three  men.  Infer  from 
this  that  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon 
b.  R.  Elazar  stated  above,  page  51.  Therefore,  said  R. 
Menashia  bar  Jacob,  it  speaks  when  it  was  an  inn  with  three 
heathen.     R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu,  how. 


58  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

ever,  said:  "  There  is  no  difference  who  the  guests  were,  even 
Israelites,  if  one  of  them  lost  something,  he  may  say,  '  There 
were  no  others,  but  my  two  neighbors.  If  they  found  it  they 
would  return  it  to  me,  as  I  had  mentioned  several  times  to 
them  that  such  a  thing  was  lost  by  me ;  and  when  they  did  not 
return  it,  it  indicates  that  they  would  steal  it,  and  there  is  no 
use  arguing  with  them. '  ' '  (Consequently  he  renounced  his  hope 
of  regaining  it.)  And  R.  Na'hman  said,  in  accordance  with  his 
theory  elsewhere,  as  follows:  "  If  one  has  seen  that  a  sala  was 
dropped  by  one  of  two  who  were  standing  there  (but  he  does 
not  know  to  which  of  the  two  it  must  be  returned).  Why  so  ? 
Because  only  two  of  them  occupied  the  place,  and  the  loser  will 
think,  *  As  there  was  no  other  besides  my  neighbor,  I  will  tell 
him.  Only  you  could  have  found  it,  and  you  must  return.'  But 
if  there  were  two  others  besides  him,  the  finder  of  the  sala  may 
keep  it  for  himself,  as  the  loser  would  think,  '  My  sala  is  lost  at 
any  rate.  If  I  claim  it  of  one  of  my  neighbors  he  would  deny, 
and  so,  too,  would  say  the  other  one  '  (consequently  the  hope  of 
regaining  is  renounced)."  Said  Rabha:  "  If  there  were  three, 
he  must  not  return  it  only  in  case  the  coin  has  not  the  value  of 
ont  per  tit  ka ;  but  if  it  has  the  value  of  two  peruthas,  he  must 
return.  Why  so  ?  Perhaps  they  are  partners,  and  one  of  them 
relinquishes  his  share  to  the  other  without  renouncing  any 
hope."  The  same  said  again:  "  If  one  has  seen  a  sala  dropped, 
and  he  took  it  before  the  owner  renounced  his  hope,  with  the 
intention  to  rob  it,  he  transgresses  the  three  following  com- 
mandments: [Lev.  xix.  13]  '  Nor  rob  him,'  [Deut.  xxii.  i]  '  Thou 
shalt  surely  bring  them  back  again,'  etc.,  and  [ibid.,  ibid.  3] 
'  Thou  art  not  at  liberty  to  withdraw  thyself ' ;  and  even  if  recon- 
sidering, he  returned  it,  it  is  considered  a  gift;  the  transgres- 
sion, however,  remains.  If,  however,  he  took  it  with  the  inten- 
tion of  returning  it,  and  after  the  owner  renounced  his  hope  he 
reconsidered  to  rob  it,  he  transgresses  the  second  command- 
ment mentioned  above.  But  if  he  was  waiting  until  the  owner 
renounced  his  hope,  and  then  took  it,  he  transgresses  only  the 
commandment  of  the  last  verse  stated  above,"  He  said  again: 
"  If  one  has  seen  money  dropped  in  sand,  and  afterwards  found 
and  took  it,  he  is  not  obliged  to  return  it,  although  the  loser 
sifted  the  sand ;  for  it  may  be  supposed  that  the  purpose  of  sift- 
ing the  sand  was  because  he  thought,  as  it  happened  to  me  it 
also  may  happen  to  some  one  else,  and  perhaps  I  might  find, 
if  not  mine,  something  of  another  loser." 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE    GATE).  59 

MISHNA  V.  :  If  one  found  something  in  a  store,  it  is  his; 
if,  however,  between  the  counter  and  the  storekeeper,  it  belongs 
to  the  latter;  if  before  a  money  changer,  it  is  his;  if,  however, 
between  the  chair  where  he  usually  sits  and  the  table,  it  belongs 
to  the  money  changer;  if  one  has  bought  fruit  or  one  sent  him 
such,  and  he  found  money  in  it,  it  is  his;  if,  however,  he  found 
it  tied  in  a  package  he  may  take  it,  but  proclaim. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Elazar:  "Not  only  on  the  ground 
before  the  money  changer,  but  even  if  he  found  it  on  the  table, 
it  is  his."  Whence  did  the  same  get  such  a  law  ?  Said  Rabha: 
"  From  the  expression  of  the  Mishna,  *  between  the  chair  and 
the  table,'  etc. ;  let  it  state  even  on  the  table,  or  if  he  finds  in 
the  table,  as  it  states  in  the  first  part.  If  he  found  in  the  store  ? 
Infer  from  this  that  even  the  money  was  on  the  table  (and  the 
money  changer  being  absent),  it  is  his  (as  it  may  be  supposed 
some  one  else  forgot  it,  as  the  money  changer  is  usually  very 
careful)." 

"  If  one  has  bought  fruit,"  etc.  Said  Resh  Lakish  in  the 
name  of  R.  Janai:  "  It  treats  of  a  case  where  he  bought  of  a 
merchant,  but  if  of  a  private  person,  he  must  return ;  and  so 
also  taught  a  scholar  in  the  presence  of  R.  Na'hman.  Said  the 
latter  to  him :  Did,  then,  the  private  person  thresh  it  himself 
(though  the  expression  in  the  Mishna  is  fruit  it  means  also 
grain)}  and  the  former  answered.  Then  ignore  the  Boraitha. 
Rejoined  R.  Na'hman :  It  is  not  necessary  to  ignore  it,  as  it 
could  be  explained  that  the  case  was  where  the  owner  threshed 
it  by  means  of  his  male  or  female  heathen  slave  (and  if  even 
they  lost  the  money  in  question,  it  belongs  nevertheless  to  the 
owner)." 

MISHNA  VI. :  A  garment  is  also  included  (in  the  verses 
concerning  lost  articles).  Why,  then,  is  it  mentioned  sepa- 
rately ?  To  teach  that  all  other  articles  should  be  equal  to  it ; 
as  a  garment  usually  has  marks  and  claimants,  so  also  any  arti- 
cle which  has  marks  and  claimants,  he  must  proclaim. 

GEMARA:  In  what  verse  is  it  included  ?  Said  Rabha:  "  In 
[Deut.  xxii.  3]  '  With  everf  lost  thing.'  "  He  said  again :  "  To 
what  purpose  does  the  Scripture  mention  ox,  ass,  sheep,  and 
a  garment  separately  ?  (Is  it  not  included  in  the  cited  verse 
above  ?)  They  are  all  needed,  for  if  the  Scripture  would  men- 
tion the  garment  only,  one  might  say  that  it  must  be  returned 
when  witnesses  testify  that  it  belongs  to  the  claimant,  or  when 
the  claimant  gives  the  mark  which  is  on  the  material  of  it ;  but 


6o  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

if,  e.g.,  an  ass,  and  witnesses  or  marks  can  be  given  of  the  saddle 
only,  the  ass  is  not  to  be  returned ;  therefore  ass  is  mentioned, 
and  ox  was  also  necessary  to  signify  that  a  mark  indicating  that 
its  tail  was  cut  was  sufficient,  and  the  same  is  with  sheep,  that 
the  mark,  the  wool  shorn,  suffices.  But  would  it  not  be  suffi- 
cient if  the  ox  only,  without  the  sheep,  were  mentioned,  as  it 
would  be  self-evident  that  the  wool  of  sheep  which  was  shorn  is 
a  sufficient  sign  for  returning,  as  the  same  is  the  case  with  an 
ox  with  its  tail  cut  ?  The  answer  to  this  (see  Baba  Kama, 
p.  127,  the  quotation  if  an  ox  fall  in  at  the  end). 

The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.],  "  Which  may 
be  lost  to  him,"  means  to  exclude  a  loss  which  has  not  the 
value  of  a  perutha,  R.  Jehudah,  however,  says:  "The  words 
further  on,  '  which  thou  hast  found,'  signify  this." 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  The  returning, 
according  to  marks  given,  is  biblically  or  rabbinically.  What  is 
the  difference  ?  Regarding  the  returning  of  a  written  divorce, 
by  proclaiming  the  marks  on  it,  if  it  is  biblically,  it  must  cer- 
tainly be  returned;  if,  however,  rabbinically,  it  may  be  said 
that  the  sages  made  their  enactment  concerning  money  matters, 
but  not  concerning  a  biblical  prohibition  (for  if  an  error  would 
occur  in  such  a  case,  a  married  woman  would  be  allowed  to 
marry  again).  Shall  we  assume  that  the  Tanaim  of  the  follow- 
ing Boraitha  differ  in  that  case ;  namely,  testimony  of  witnesses 
must  not  be  accepted  on  suppositions  {e.g.,  if  witnesses  came  to 
testify  that  they  suppose,  by  seeing  the  body  of  so  and  so,  that 
he  was  killed,  unless  they  testify  that  they  had  seen  his  face  and 
his  nose  attached).  Elazar  b.  Mahbai,  however,  said:  "  It 
may."  Should  we  not  assume  that  the  point  of  their  difference 
is  that  the  first  Tana  holds  that  signs  are  rabbinical,  and  Elazar 
holds  that  they  are  biblical?  Said  Rabha:  "All  agree  that 
signs  are  biblical,  and  the  point  in  which  they  differ  is,  one 
holds  that  the  suppositions  of  such  a  case  by  his  comrade  may 
be  relied  upon,  and  one  holds  it  may  not  (because  an  error  may 
occur  also  in  a  case  of  a  comrade)."  He  said  again:  "  The  fact 
that  we  return  lost  articles  according  to  signs  given,  proves  that  it 
is  biblically;  for  if  not,  how  could  the  sages  make  such  an  enact- 
ment in  a  case  of  doubtful  money  ?  Should  we  assume  that  the 
finder  is  pleased  to  return  the  article  according  to  signs,  only 
because  if  it  should  happen  that  he  himself  lost  an  article,  the 
same  would  be  done  to  him?"  Said  R.  Saphra  to  him: 
' '  What  do  we  care  for  the  pleasure  of  the  finder,  when  the  loser 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  6i 

is  not  pleased  {e.g.,  the  man  who  claims  and  gives  signs,  and 
yet  it  is  not  the  real  ones)  ?  Is  it,  then,  usual  that  one  should 
desire  to  do  good  to  himself  in  futuro  (which  it  is  doubtful  if  it 
will  happen)  with  money  which  does  not  belong  to  him?" 
Therefore  said  Rabha:*  "  All  the  losers  would  be  pleased  by 
giving  signs  that  the  articles  should  be  returned  to  them,  as 
they  know  that  witnesses  are  not  always  to  be  found ;  and,  on 
the  other  hand,  the  signs  on  the  articles  are  not  known  to  every 
one  who  would  like  to  claim  them,  and  only  the  loser,  who 
knows  the  exact  mark,  will  proclaim  them  and  come  in  posses- 
sion thereof"  (and  therefore  it  is  possible  that  such  an  enact- 
ment was  made  by  the  sages,  and  it  is  not  biblically).  Finally 
said  Rabha:  "  That  the  marks  in  question  are  biblically  is  to  be 
deduced  from  the  following  verse  [Deut.  xxii.  2]:  '  And  it  shall 
remain  with  thee  until  thy  brother  inquire  after  it.*  Could, 
then,  one  bear  in  mind  that  it  should  be  returned  before  it  is 
inquired  about  ?  We  must,  therefore,  say  that  the  inquirer 
must  be  examined  whether  he  is  not  a  swindler,  and  by  what 
means  he  can  be  identified  if  not  by  the  exact  marks;  hence 
infer  from  this  that  they  are  biblically."  He  says  again:  "  If  it 
is  your  decision  that  the  marks  in  question  are  biblically."  "  [If 
it  is  your  decision."  Did  not  Rabha  just  deduce  it  from  a  verse  ? 
Yea,  but  still  one  can  say  that  the  examination  mentioned  above 
should  be  by  means  of  witnesses.]  If  there  were  two  persons 
who  gave  the  very  same  marks,  it  must  be  reserved  (until  proper 
evidence  is  brought) ;  if  there  were  marks  and  witnesses  contra- 
dicting each  other,  the  witnesses  have  the  preference.  If  there 
Were  marks  and  marks  from  two  parties,  and  there  was  a  third 
one  who  brought  one  witness,  the  third  one  must  not  be  taken 
in  consideration,  and  the  article  must  be  kept  in  reserve.  If 
there  were  witnesses  testifying  that  the  ownership  of  the  article 
by  this  man  was  when  it  was  woven,  and  other  witnesses  the 
ownership  of  another  man  when  it  was  lost,  the  latter  has  the 
preference,  as  it  may  be  that  the  first  one  sold  it  and  it  was  lost 
by  the  buyer.     If  one  party  testifies  to  the  length,  and  another 


*  In  the  text  it  is  not  mentioned  that  Rabha  is  the  author  of  this  phrase,  but  it 
is  the  continuation  of  R.  Saphra.  Rashi,  however,  has  corrected  Rabha,  for  a  reason 
which  is  not  known  to  us  ;  we  see,  however,  some  more  corrections  of  Rashi,  in  this 
so  complicated  a  discussion  ;  and  notwithstanding  this,  it  is  very  difficult  to  find  out 
the  real  meaning  of  it.  We  have  tried  to  make  it  in  some  way  understood  to  the 
teader  ;  still  we  are  not  sure  whether  it  is  correct,  and  would  be  very  glad  if  some 
•ne  should  translate  It  in  a  better  way  ;  to  omit  this  all,  would  be  against  our  method. 


62  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

party  to  the  width,  the  length  has  preference,  as  the  width  can 
be  assumed  by  seeing  the  article  when  it  was  used.  If  one 
testifies  to  the  length  and  the  width,  and  another  one  testifies 
to  the  square,  the  former  has  the  preference;  the  square  and 
the  weight,  the  latter  has  the  preference.  If  the  husband  claims 
that  the  written  divorce  was  dropped  by  him  before  it  was  de- 
livered to  his  wife,  and  proclaims  certain  marks,  and  she  claims 
it  was  dropped  by  her  after  she  received  it  (consequently  she  is 
single  and  can  marry),  she  has  the  preference  (because  if  she 
had  not  received  it,  how  could  she  know  the  marks?).  However, 
the  marks  must  be  not  in  length  and  width,  as  she  could  see  it 
before  it  was  given  to  her,  but  a  mark  such  as  a  hole  in  such 
and  such  letter  of  it.  If  the  marks  were  the  very  same  given 
by  him  and  her  concerning  the  length  of  the  thread  upon  which 
the  divorce  was  put,  she  has  the  preference.  .  If  both  claim  that 
it  was  in  the  x^4'^  (^  kind  of  small  case),  he  has  the  preference, 
because  it  is  well  known  to  her  that  the  entire  contents  of  it  he 
has  placed  there. 

MISHNA  VII. :  Until  what  time  is  he  obliged  to  proclaim  ? 
Until  his  neighbors  are  aware  of  it;  so  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meier. 
R.  Jehudah,  however,  says:  "  All  the  three  festivals  (Passover, 
Pentecost,  and  '1  abernacles),  an  '  after  the  latest  festival  seven 
days,  that  the  loser  should  be  able  to  go  home  three  days  and 
return  three  days,  and  one  day  for  the  proclaiming  of  his  loss. 

GEMARA:  A  Boraitha  in  addition  to  the  Mishna,  which 
states  "  the  neighbors  of  the  lost  article."  How  is  it  to  be 
understood  ?  Does  it  mean  that  the  neighbors  knew  who  lost 
the  article  ?  Let  them  go  and  return.  Therefore  it  must  be 
said  that  it  means  the  neighbors  of  the  place  where  the  lost 
thing  was  found. 

*'  R.  Jehudah  said,''  etc.  There  is  a  contradiction  in  the 
following:  On  the  third  of  Mar  Cheshvan  they  pray  for  rain. 
R.  Gamaliel  said:  "  On  the  seventh  of  it,  which  is  the  fifteenth 
after  the  festival,  for  the  purpose  that  the  last  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  Palestine  shall  havr  reached  Euphrates." 

(Hence  we  see  that  seven  days  were  needed  for  each  tour.) 
Said  R.  Joseph:  "This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  cited  Bo- 
raitha speaks  of  the  first  temple,  of  which  it  is  written  [I  Kings, 
iv.] :  '  Judah  and  Israel  were  numerous  as  the  sand  which  is  by 
the  sea  in  multitude,'  then  fifteen  days  were  needed;  in  the 
second  temple,  however,  of  which  it  is  written  [Ezra,  ii.  64] : 
The  whole  congregation  together  was  forty  and  two  thousand 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA   (MIDDLE    GATE).  63 

three  hundred  and  sixty,'  etc.,  seven  days  are  sufficient." 
Said  Abayi  to  him :  "  Is  it  not  written  [Nehemiah,  vii.  73] :  *  So 
the  priests  and  the  Levitcs,'  etc.,  and  also  [Ezra,  ii.  70]:  *  And 
the  singers  and  the  gatekeepers  ...  in  their  cities'?  and  as 
it  was  so,  the  reverse  of  your  theory  should  be  held.  In  the  first 
temple,  then  the  people  were  very  numerous,  and  caravans 
were  going  to  and  fro,  day  and  night ;  not  so  much  time  was 
necessary  as  in  the  second  temple,  when  caravans  were  not  so 
frequently  travelling  and  not  in  night-time."  Said  Rabha: 
"  There  is  no  difference  between  the  first  and  second  temple 
concerning  a  lost  thing.  The  rabbis  did  not  like  to  cause  too 
much  trouble  to  anyone."  Said  Rabbina:  "  Infer  from  this 
that  the  finder  must  proclaim  the  kind  of  the  garment  he  has 
found,  for  if  he  has  only  to  proclaim  a  lost  article,  one  day 
would  be  added  to  the  loser  for  searching  for  his  garments,  to 
see  what  was  missing.  Infer  from  this  that  so  it  is."  Rabha, 
however,  says:  "Nothing  is  to  be  inferred  from  this.  The 
rabbi  did  not  like  to  cause  too  much  trouble,  as  stated  above." 
The  rabbis  taught:  "The  first  festival,  the  proclaimer  must 
say:  This  is  the  first  feast  for  my  proclamation,  and  on  the  sec- 
ond he  must  say  this  is  the  second,  and  on  the  third  he  need 
say  nothing  (and  this  will  mark  that  it  is  the  third  time)."  The 
rabbis  taught:  "  Formerly  each  finder  used  to  proclaim  on  all 
three  festivals,  etc.,  as  stated  above;  however,  since  the  de- 
struction of  the  Temple  [which  we  hope  will  be  rebuilt  soon  in 
our  days],  the  sages  enacted  that  it  shall  be  proclaimed  in  the 
synagogues  and  houses  of  learning,  and  since  oppressors  have 
increased,  it  was  ordered  that  the  finder  should  notify  his  neigh- 
bors and  friend,  and  he  is  quit."  What  is  to  be  understood  by 
the  expression  "oppressors"  ?  They  who  claim  that  all  lost 
articles  belong  to  the  government. 

R.  Ami  happened  to  find  a  purse  with  dinars  in  the  presence 
of  a  Roman,  and  he  was  afraid  to  take  it.  The  Roman,  however, 
said  to  him.  You  may  take  it  for  yourself;  we  are  not  Persians, 
who  say  that  a  lost  article  belongs  to  the  government.  The 
rabbis  taught:  "A  certain  stone  was  in  Jerusalem,  and  every 
one  who  had  lost  anything  would  go  there,  and  the  same  did 
the  finders.  The  one  used  to  proclaim,  and  the  loser  would 
give  the  marks  of  the  article  lost,  and  if  correct,  he  took  it; 
and  this  is  what  we  have  learned  in  Tract  Taanith  concerning 
Chouna,  who  said,  Go  and  see  if  the  certain  stone  is  covered  by 
rain. 


64  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

MISHNA  VIII. :  If  one  identifies  the  article,  but  not  its 
marks,  it  must  not  be  delivered  to  him ;  and  if  the  claimant  is 
known  to  be  a  swindler,  even  if  he  gives  marks,  as  it  is  written 
[Deut.  xxii.  2],  "  until  thy  brother  inquire  after  it,"  which  means 
until  you  shall  investigate  whether  he  is  thy  brother  or  a  swindler. 

GEMARA:  It  was  taught:  R.  Jehudah  said:  An  article, 
but  not  the  kind  of  it,  must  be  proclaimed,  as  swindle  is  to  be 
feared.  R.  Na'hman,  however,  said :  He  proclaims  also  the 
kind  of  article,  for  if  swindle  is  to  be  feared,  there  will  be  no 
end  of  the  matter.  An  objection  was  raised  from  our  Mishna, 
which  states,  "if  he  identifies  the  article  without  its  marks," 
etc. ;  this  would  be  correct  if  an  article  bilt  not  the  kind  is  pro- 
claimed. Then  the  Mishna  comes  to  teach  that  even  if  he  iden- 
tified the  article,  it  must  nevertheless  not  be  delivered  until  he 
gives  the  marks;  but  if,  as  you  say,  he  proclaims  the  kind  of 
article,  is  it  not  self-evident  that  without  given  marks  it  would 
not  be  returned?  Said  R.  Saphra:  "  It  may  be  said  that  he 
proclaims  the  kind  of  article,  and  the  claimant  gives  marks,  but 
not  the  essential  marks,  it  is  not  to  be  returned,  and  the  Mishna 
with  the  expression  '  marks '  means  the  essential  ones." 

"And  he  who  is  known  as  a  swindler,'*  etc.  The  rabbis 
taught :  Formerly,  if  one  lost  an  article  he  would  give  the  marks 
and  it  was  delivered  to  him.  But  since  swindlers  have  increased, 
it  was  enacted  that  the  claimant  was  obliged  to  bring  witnesses 
that  he  was  not  a  swindler;  as  it  happened  with  the  father  of 
R.  Papa,  who  lost  an  ass  and  thereafter  found  it  at  some  one's 
place.  When  the  case  came  before  Rabba  bar  Huna,  he  said  to 
him.  Bring  witnesses  that  you  are  not  a  swindler;  and  he  did 
so,  and  Rabba  questioned  them:  Do  you  know  that  this  man  is 
a  swindler  ?  And  he  answered:  Yea.  Said  the  claimant:  /am 
a  swindler  ?  The  witnesses  rejoined:  We  meant  to  say  you  are 
not,  and  Rabba  decided  that  it  be  returned,  because  one  would 
not  bring  witnesses  who  would  testify  against  him. 

MISHNA  IX. :  If  the  found  article  is  of  such  a  kind  that  it 
labors  for  its  food,  it  shall  be  fed  and  labored  with ;  and  if  of 
such  a  kind  which  does  not  labor  and  must  be  fed,  it  shall  be 
sold,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.]:  "  And  then  thou  shalt  restore 
it,"  which  means,  deliberate  how  the  restoration  should  be  made. 
But  what  shall  be  done  with  the  money  ?  According  to  R.  Tar- 
phon  he  may  use  it,  and  therefore  if  he  loses  it,  he  is  responsi- 
ble. According  to  R.  Aqiba,  however,  it  must  not  be  used, 
and  therefore  if  it  is  lost,  he  is  not  responsible. 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  65 

GEMARA :  (The  Mishna  does  not  state  any  definite  time.) 
Is  it  for  eternity  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Samuel: 
"  It  means  until  twelve  months  have  elapsed.  We  have  learned 
the  same  in  the  following  Boraitha :  Each  article  which  is  sub- 
ject to  labor  for  its  food,  as,  e.g.,  a  cow  or  an  ass,  he  may  keep 
it  until  twelve  months  have  elapsed,  and  when  this  time  has 
passed  it  may  be  appraised  and  the  value  of  it  deposited. 
Calves  and  colts  he  may  keep  three  months,  geese  and  hens 
thirty  days,  and  after  this  time  has  elapsed  it  should  be  ap- 
praised," etc.  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itzhak,  however,  says:  "A 
hen  (which  lays  eggs)  should  be  kept  twelve  months  (as  it  is 
equal  to  a  cow  which  labors  for  its  food),  and  the  same  is  plainly 
stated  in  a  Boraitha." 

"And  if  of  such  a  kind  which  does  not  labor,"  etc.  The 
rabbis  taught:  "It  is  written:  '  Thou  shalt  restore  it  to  him,' 
which  means  you  must  see  that  the  restoration  is  made;  viz.,  if 
you  have  found  several  calves,  colts,  geese,  or  hens,  you  must 
not  sell  one  of  them  for  the  purpose  of  feeding  the  remainder 
(for  if  so,  it  can  happen  that  all  of  them  should  be  sold  for  their 
food),  but  sell  all  at  once  and  deposit  the  money." 

' '  But  what  shall  be  done  with  the  money, ' '  etc.  We  see  that 
the  sages  mentioned  in  the  Mishna  differ  only  in  case  where  the 
money  was  used,  but  if  it  was  not,  and  it  was  lost,  all  agree  that 
he  is  free.  Shall  we  assume  that  our  Mishna  is  an  objection  to 
R.  Joseph's  statement,  who  said  (Baba  Kama,  p.  134):  "That 
the  bailee  of  a  lost  thing  is  equal  to  a  bailee  for  hire  "  ?  R. 
Joseph  may  say  that  when  the  article  was  stolen  or  lost  (by 
carelessness),  all  agree  that  he  is  responsible,  and  the  point  of 
their  difference  is,  it  was  lost  through  an  accident  for  which 
only  a  borrower  is  responsible.  According  to  R.  Tarphon,  who 
permits  the  money  to  be  used,  he  is  considered  a  borrower,  and 
is  responsible ;  and  according  to  R.  Aqiba,  who  does  not  permit 
the  use  of  it,  he  is  not  considered  a  borrower,  and  therefore  not 
responsible  for  an  accident.  If  so,  to  what  purpose  does  R. 
Aqiba  use  the  expression  "therefore"  ?  He  did  it  because 
R.  Tarphon  used  the  same  expression,  and  with  him  it  was 
necessary,  as  he  meant  to  teach  thus:  As  the  use  of  the  money 
was  permitted,  although  he  did  not,  he  is  nevertheless  respon- 
sible, because  he  is  considered  a  borrower.  But  does  not  R. 
Tarphon  say  it  was  lost,  which  means  even  if  not  accidentally  ? 
As  Rabba  said  elsewhere:  "  That  where  the  expression  '  it  was 
stolen'  occurs,  it  means  by  an  armed  robber;  and  where  the 
5 


dd  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

expression  '  lost '  occurs,  it  means  accidentally,  as,  e.g.,  the  ship 
sunk  in  the  sea,  so  also  is  to  be  explained  here."  Said  R.  Jehu- 
dah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  The  Halakha  prevails  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Tarphon.  Bid  Ra'hba  was  in  the  possession  of 
money  belonging  to  orphans,  and  he  questioned  R.  Joseph 
whether  he  may  use  it,  and  he  answered:  "  So  R.  Jehudah  de- 
clared in  the  name  of  Samuel,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  in 
accordance  with  R.  Tarphon."  Said  Abayi  to  him:  "  But  was 
it  not  taught  in  addition:  R.  Helba  in  the  name  of  R.  Huna 
said  that  the  case  holds  only  with  money  obtained  for  a  found 
article,  he  may  use  it  for  his  trouble;  but  if  the  money  was 
found,  of  which  he  had  no  trouble,  it  must  not  be  used;  and 
this  money  of  the  orphans  which  is  in  possession  of  the  ques- 
tioner came  to  him  without  any  trouble  ?"  R.  Joseph  said  to 
the  questioner:  "  Go,  people  do  not  allow  I  shall  permit  you."  * 

MISHNA  X.  :  If  one  found  books,  then  he  may  read  them 
once  within  thirty  days;  if  he  is  unable  to  read,  then  he  must 
unroll  them  once  in  thirty  days  (to  air  them).  He  is,  however, 
not  allowed  to  study  in  them  for  the  first  time;  and,  further- 
more, no  other  one  shall  assist  him.  If  the  article  was  a  gar- 
ment, it  must  be  shaken  once  within  thirty  days,  and  he  may 
spread  it  out  for  its  own  sake,  but  not  for  his  honor.  Vessels 
of  silver  and  copper  may  be  used  if  for  the  sake  of  the  articles, 
but  not  so  often  that  they  may  become  worn.  If,  however,  the 
utensils  arc  of  gold  or  of  glass,  they  must  not  be  touched  until 
Elijah  will  come.  If,  however,  the  article  found  was  unfit  for 
the  finder  to  carry,  he  may  leave  it. 

GEMARA:  Samuel  said:  "  He  who  finds  Tephilin  (Phylac- 
terien)  in  market,  he  may  appraise  their  value  and  use  them 
immediately."  Rabbina  objected  from  our  Mishna:  "If  one 
found  books,  ...  he  may  unroll,"  etc.;  hence  it  is  nof 
mentioned  that  he  may  appraise  and  use  them.  Said  Abayi : 
"  With  Tephilin  it  is  different,  as  they  are  always  to  be  found 
for  sale  at  the  scribe's,  as,  e.g.,  Bar  Habu;  written  books,  how- 
ever, are  very  seldom  articles  which  can  be  bought."  The 
rabbis  taught:  "One  who  borrows  the  Holy  Scrolls  of  his 
neighbor,   must  not  lend  them  to  another;  he  may  open  and 

*  Luria  (Rashall)  in  his  remarks  says :  "  I  have  not  found  in  any  commentary  an 
explanation  why  money  belonging  to  orphans  should  be  equal  to  found  money,  that 
the  decision  of  R.  Tarphon  should  apply  also  to  it.  It  seems  to  me,  therefore,  that 
the  case  was  where  he  found  the  money,  and  thereafter  it  was  known  to  belong  to 
orphans  not  yet  of  age,  which  should  be  returned  to  them." 


TRACT   BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  67 

read  in  them  provided  he  does  not  begin  to  study  in  them  for 
the  first  time,  and  also  he  must  not  invite  another  to  study  with 
him.  The  same  is  the  case  if  one  deposits  Holy  Scrolls  at  his 
neighbor's  :  the  bailee  must  unroll  them  (for  airing)  once  in  twelve 
months,  and  in  the  meantime  he  may  read  in  them ;  he  must 
not,  however,  open  them  for  the  purpose  of  reading  only." 
Symmachus,  however,  says:  "  If  they  were  new  ones,  he  may 
air  them  once  in  a  month;  and  if  old,  once  in  twelve  months." 
R.  Elazar  b.  Jacob  says:  "  It  makes  no  difference,  once  in 
twelve   is  sufficient." 

The  master  said:  "  He  must  not  lend  them  to  another." 
Does  this  law  apply  only  to  Holy  Scrolls  ?  Is  it  not  the  same 
with  anything  else  ?  Did  not  Resh  Lakish  say  (in  regard  to  a 
Mishna  in  Tract  Gittin) :  Here  taught  Rabbi  that  a  borrower  must 
not  lend  an  article  to  another,  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  a 
hirer  ?  Lest  one  say  that  usually  one  is  pleased  that  a  meritori- 
ous deed  be  done  with  his  property,  he  comes  to  teach  us  that 
he  must  not  do  so,  even  with  the  Holy  Scrolls  without  permis- 
sion. To  what  purpose,  then,  does  the  master  teach,  He  opens 
them,  etc.  ?  Is  this  not  self-evident,  as  for  this  purpose  they 
were  borrowed  ?  Because  he  means  to  tell  that  he  must  not  begin 
his  study  for  the  first  time,  etc.,  he  mentioned  also  the  above.* 
But  how  is  to  understand  the  latter  part  ?  R.  Elazar  b.  Jacob 
says:  "  Once  in  twelve."  Is  it  not  the  same  as  the  first  Tana 
said  ?  Read,  R.  Elazar  b.  Jacob  said  in  both  cases  they  must 
be  unrolled  once  in  thirty  days. 

"  To  study  in  them,''  etc.  There  is  a  contradiction  in  the 
following:  "  One  shall  not  read  a  paragraph  and  repeat  it  or 
translate  it  into  another  language ;  he  must  not  open  more  than 
three  folios  of  them,  and  three  men  must  not  read  in  one  and 
the  same  volume."  Is  it  not  to  be  understood  from  this  that 
three  must  not,  but  two  may  ?  Said  Abayi :  "  This  presents  no 
difficulty.  In  one  and  the  same  paragraph  even  two  are  not 
allowed,  but  in  two  dif!ferent  paragraphs  each  of  them  may  read 
separately." 

"  If  the  article  was  a  garment,''  etc.  Is  it,  then,  good  for 
the  garment  to  shake  it  frequently  ?  Did  not  R.  Johanan  say 
that  whoever  has  a  specialist  weaver  in  his  house  (who  may 
weave  for  him  new  garments),  may  shake  his  garments  every 
day;  hence  we  see  that  frequent  shaking  spoils  the  garment  ? 

*  The  text  here  discusses  the  Inilee  of  Holy  Scrolls  and  finally  explains  it  as  we 
have  just  translated  ;  therefore  tlio  omission. 


68  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Yea.  Every  day  it  would  spoil  it,  but  once  in  thirty  days  is 
good  for  it ;  and  if  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  R.  Johanan 
treats  of  a  woollen  garment  (which  can  be  torn  by  shaking),  and 
the  Mishna  treats  of  linen  ones. 

R.  Johanan  said:  *  "  It  is  better  to  drink  a  goblet  from  the 
hand  of  a  witch  than  to  drink  a  goblet  of  lukewarm  water  when 
the  goblet  is  of  metal,  and  was  not  boiled  previously,  and  it  is 
ordinary  water  without  any  spices  in  it."  He  also  said :  "He 
to  whom  his  father  bequeathed  too  much  money,  and  he  desires 
to  lose  it,  shall  dress  himself  in  Roman  linen  garments  (which 
arc  very  dear  and  are  spoiled  in  a  short  time),  and  shall  use 
glass  utensils  of  great  value,  and  shall  hire  others  to  do  the 
work  necessary  in  his  vineyards  while  he  is  absent." 

"  Vessels  of  silver  and  copper,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  "If 
one  finds  wooden  vessels,  he  may  use  them  in  order  that  they 
may  not  decay.  Copper  ones  he  may  use  for  warm  liquids,  but 
not  put  them  on  the  fire,  because  the  vessels  may  be  worn  off ; 
silver  ones  he  may  use  for  cold  liquids,  but  not  for  warm,  for 
they  may  lose  their  brightness;  spades  or  axes  he  may  use  for 
soft  materials,  but  not  for  hard,  for  they  may  be  diminished; 
however,  golden  ones  or  glass  ones  must  not  be  touched  until 
Elijah  will  come.  The  same  law  applies  also  to  deposited  arti- 
cles. If  so,  to  what  purpose  was  it  deposited  ?  Said  R.  Ada 
b.  Hama  in  the  name  of  R.  Shesheth:  "  It  was  deposited  for 
saving  only,  as,  e.g.,  the  owners  had  departed  for  the  sea- 
countries." 

"7/",  however,  the  article  found,  .  .  .  he  may  leave  it.'* 
Whence  do  we  deduce  it  ?  From  that  which  the  rabbis  taught: 
"It  is  written  [Deut.  xxii.  i]:  'And  withdraw  thyself  from 
them,'  which  means  that  there  are  cases  in  which  you  may 
withdraw,  and  others  in  which  you  may  not.  How  so  ?  If, 
e.g.,  he  was  a  priest,  and  the  found  article  was  on  a  cemetery, 
or  he  was  a  sage,  and  it  is  not  fit  for  him  to  carry  the  found 
article,  or  if  his  labor  at  that  time  should  have  more  value  than 
the  value  of  the  found  article,  he  may  leave  it,  as  in  such  cases 
the  verse  cited  above  applies."  Let  us  see  in  what  case  the 
above  verse  is  needed.  If  to  a  priest  who  saw  a  found  article 
in  a  cemetery,  is  then  a  verse  needed  ?  Is  it  not  self-evident, 
as  there  is  a  negative  and  positive  commandment  concerning  a 
priest,  who  must  not  defile  himself  by  the  dead  [Lev.  xxi.  i], 

*  Because  it  is  stoted  here  what  R.  Johnanan  said  regarding  worldly  affairs,  it 
mentions  here  the  other  things  he  said  in  the  same  matter.    (Rashi.) 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  69 

and  the  positive  commandment,  "Ye  shall  be  holy"  [ibid, 
xix.  2],  and  to  return  a  lost  thing  is  one  positive  commandment 
only;  and  aside  from  this  it  must  not  be  ignored,  a  bodily  pro- 
hibition for  money  matter  even  if  it  is  meritorious,  and  if  the 
above-cited  verse  is  needed,  because  his  loss  of  time  has  more 
value  than  the  lost  article.  This  is  also  inferred  from  the  say- 
ing of  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  as  follows:  "  It  is  writ- 
ten [Deut.  XV.  4] :  '  There  shall  be  no  needy  man  among  thee,'  * 
which  signifies  that  yours  has  preference  over  that  of  another; 
it  must  therefore  be  said  that  the  verse  in  question  is  needed 
for  the  case  of  a  sage,  for  whom  the  found  article  is  unfit  for  his 
honor."  Rabba  said:  "  If  he  has  seen  an  animal,  and  struck  it 
(and  it  ran  away),  he  must  return  it."  It  happened  that  Abayi 
was  sitting  in  the  presence  of  Rabba,  and  goats  came  near  him, 
and  he  took  a  clot  of  dirt  and  threw  it  at  them,  and  they  ran 
away.  Said  Rabba  to  him:  "  If  they  will  be  lost  you  will  be 
responsible  ;  go  and  bring  them  back  to  the  owner." 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  If  the  man  is  so 
respected  that  in  the  city  it  is  not  nice  for  him  to  drive  cattle, 
but  in  the  field  he  usually  does  so,  what  is  the  law  ?  If  he  has 
seen  his  neighbor's  cattle  astray  in  the  field,  must  he  return 
them  to  the  city  only,  or,  as  the  Scripture  requires  that  they 
shall  be  returned  to  their  proper  place,  and  as  it  is  not  fit  for 
him  to  lead  them  in  the  city,  he  need  not  do  so  even  in  the 
field  ?  On  the  other  hand,  it  may  be  said  because  it  is  fit  for 
him  to  do  it  in  the  field,  it  is  his  duty  to  lead  them  to  the  city, 
and  when  it  is  already  there  return  them  to  the  proper  place. 
This  question  remains  unanswered.  Rabha  said:  "  (This  is  the 
rule.)  If  it  would  be  his  own  article,  he  would  trouble  himself 
to  put  it  in  the  proper  place;  then  he  must  do  the  same  with 
that  of  others.  The  same  is  the  case  with  loading  and  unload- 
ing a  wagon.  If  he  is  accustomed  to  do  so  for  himself,  he  must 
do  so  for  another  if  he  is  in  need  [Ex.  xxiii.  5]." 

R.  Ismail  b.  Jose  was  on  the  road,  and  met  a  man  carrying 
a  bundle  of  wood,  who  put  it  down  to  take  a  rest ;  thereafter  he 
asked  R.  Ismail  to  help  him  lift  it  on  his  shoulder,  and  he 
asked  him  the  value  of  it,  and  the  man  answered  a  half  zuz.  R. 
Ismail  then  bought  it  for  a  half  zuz,  and  renounced  his  owner- 
ship to  it.  The  man,  however,  had  acquired  title  to  it  by  draw- 
ing it.     Then  R.  Ismail  bought  it  from  him  again  by  adding 

*  The  Scripture  reads  Bekka,  which  means  literally  in  thyself;  henc«  the  si^f- 
niiicance  of  the  text.     Leeser,  however,  translates  among;  accordiaff  to  the  ••ase. 


70  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

another  half  zuz,  and  renounced  his  ownership  again.  When 
he  had  seen  that  the  man  intended  to  draw  it  again  to  acquire 
title  again,  he  said:  "  I  have  released  my  ownership  for  the 
whole  world,  but  not  for  you."  And  was  not  R.  Ismail  a  sage 
for  whom  it  was  not  fit  to  do  such  a  thing  ?  He  was  acting  to 
moderate  the  law,  as  R.  Joseph  taught:  It  is  written  [Ex.  xviii. 
20]:  "And  thou  shalt  make  them  know,"  etc.  "To  make 
them  know"  means  how  to  make  a  living;  "  the  way"  means 
bestowing  of  favors;  "wherein  they  must  walk"  signifies  to 
visit  the  sick  and  bury  the  dead;  "  and  the  work"  means  the 
exact  law;  "  they  must  do  "  means  to  moderate  the  law.  The 
master  says :  Wherein  they  must  walk  to  visit  the  sick.  Is  this 
not  included  in  bestowing  of  favors  ?  It  was  necessary  to  name 
this  separately,  in  case  when  the  sick  one  was  his  comrade,  and 
the  master  says  elsewhere  that  by  visiting  a  sick  one,  if  he  is 
his  comrade,  a  sixtieth  part  of  the  sickness  goes  over  to  him, 
and  notwithstanding  this  he  must  do  so.  But  is  not  the  bury- 
ing of  the  dead  included  in  bestowing  of  favors  ?  It  was  neces- 
sary to  teach  that  even  if  he  was  a  sage,  and  it  is  beyond  his 
dignity,  he  must  nevertheless  do  so  in  such  a  case.  "  To 
moderate  the  law,"  as  R.  Johanan  said  that  Jerusalem  was 
destroyed  because  they  used  the  exact  law  only  and  never 
moderated  it. 

MISHNA  XL'.  What  is  to  be  considered  a  lost  thing? 
E.g.,  if  he  found  an  ass  or  a  cow  feeding  in  a  public  thorough- 
fare, it  is  not  to  be  considered  a  loss.  If,  however,  the  packing 
material  of  the  ass  was  turned  over  wrongly,  or  the  cow  was 
running  between  the  vineyards,  it  is  to  be  considered  a  loss 
which  must  be  returned.  If  he  has  returned  it,  and  it  runs  away 
again,  even  four  or  five  times,  he  must  return  it,  as  it  is  written 
[Deut.  xxii.  i]:  "Thou  shalt  surely  bring  them  back."  If  his 
loss  of  time  was  worth  a  sala,  he  must  not  say,  Give  me  a  sala, 
but  he  may  take  the  reward  as  a  laborer  would  usually  take  for 
such  work.  If  there  were  three  persons  (who  constitute  a  Beth 
Din  of  common  men),  he  may  make  the  condition  before  them 
(my  loss  of  time  in  this  case  is  worth  so  and  so  much,  and  I  will 
collect  from  the  owner);  but  if  there  were  not  such  three  per- 
sons, before  whom  could  he  make  such  a  condition?  Hence  his 
own  time  has  preference. 

GEMARA:  How  is  the  first  part  of  the  Mishna  to  be  under- 
stood, which  states  it  is  not  to  be  considered  a  loss  when  it  were 
lost  to  the  owner  ?     Why  not  ?     Said  R.  Jehudah:  It  means  to 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  71 

say,  what  the  rule  of  a  lost  thing  is  which  one  is  obliged  to 
trouble  himself.  If  the  articles  mentioned  were  fed  in  a  public 
thoroughfare,  it  is  not  considered  such  that  the  finder  need 
trouble  himself,  unless  he  finds  them  in  such  condition  as  men- 
tioned in  the  Mishna  further  on.  But  how  is  the  second  part 
to  be  understood,  which  states  it  is  to  be  considered  a  loss, 
etc.  ?  Does  it  mean  for  eternity  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah,  in  the 
name  of  Rabh:  "If  he  has  seen  them  three  days  in  succession 
at  the  same  place."  How  was  the  case,  if  in  night-time  even 
one  hour  is  sufficient,  and  if  in  the  daytime  even  more  than 
three  days  should  not  be  considered  ?  The  Mishna  treats  of 
a  case  where  he  had  seen  them  in  the  morning  or  at  sunset ;  if 
only  three  days  in  succession,  it  may  be  supposed  that  it  is  only 
mishap,  and  they  will  come  out  soon  ;  but  if  more,  it  is  certainly 
a  lost  thing.  We  have  learned  the  same  in  the  following  Bo- 
raitha:  "  If  one  found  a  garment  or  an  ox  in  the  market,  or  a 
cow  running  in  the  vineyard,  it  is  considered  a  loss;  but  if  the 
articles  mentioned  were  lying  on  the  side  of  a  partition,  or  the 
cow  was  fed  between  the  vineyards,  it  is  not  considered  a  loss, 
unless  he  has  seen  them  three  days  in  succession.  If  one  has 
seen  that  his  neighbor's  field  is  about  to  be  overflowed,  he  may 
prevent  it  if  it  is  within  his  power."  Rabha  said:  "  It  is  writ- 
ten [Deut.  xxii.  3]:  '  With  every  lost  thing,'  it  means  to  add  a 
loss  of  real  estate."  Said  R.  Hananiah  to  him:  "The  follow- 
ing Boraitha  should  support  you  :  If  he  has  seen  water  going  to 
overflow,  he  may  prevent  it  by  making  a  dam."  And  Rabha 
answered:  "  This  teaching  may  not  support  me,  as  it  may  be 
that  it  treats  of  a  case  when  there  were  sheaves  in  the  field 
(hence  it  is  not  real  estate).  If  it  is  so,  what  does  the  Boraitha 
teach  us  ?  Is  it  not  included  in  the  verse  cited  above  ?  It  may 
be  said  that  there  were  sheaves  which  were  still  attached  to  the 
ground,  and  the  use  of  the  ground  was  yet  necessary.  Lest 
one  say  because  they  still  need  the  support  of  the  earth,  it 
should  be  considered  as  the  earth  itself,  it  comes  to  teach  us 
that  this  is  not  so." 

*'  If  he  returned  it,  and  it  runs  aivay  again,''  etc.  Said  one 
of  the  scholars  to  Rabha:  "  Why  so  ?  The  Scripture  reads 
Hosh^h  (which  means,  '  thou  shalt  return  '),  once,  and  then 
Thisbib^m  ('thou  shalt  return  them'),  twice."  And  Rabha 
answered:  "  The  first  word  means  even  hundred  times,  and  the 
second  word  is  needed  lest  one  say  that  he  is  only  obliged  to 
return  to  his  house,  but  not  to  his  garden  or  ruined  building, 


7a  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

hence  the  second  word  Thisbib^m."  *  How  was  the  case?  If 
the  article  would  be  saved  in  the  garden  or  ruins,  then  it  is  self- 
evident  that  he  must  return  it,  and  if  it  was  not  saved  there, 
why  should  he  return  ?  It  may  be  said  that  it  is  to  be  saved 
there,  and  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  the  knowledge  of  the  owner 
is  not  necessary,  and  this  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Elazar,  who 
said,  in  everything  between  man  and  man,  the  knowledge  of  the 
owner  is  needed,  except  concerning  the  return  of  a  lost  thing, 
in  which  the  knowledge  of  the  owner  is  not  needed  {i.e.,  he  may 
put  the  found  article  on  the  owner's  property,  where  it  may  be 
saved  without  notifying  him  that  he  has  done  so),  and  this  is 
deduced  from  the  superfluous  word  in  the  Scripture  mentioned 
above.  The  same  is  the  case  with  the  word  [ibid.,  ibid.  7] 
which  also  reads  Shalach  Tiishalach  (literally,  "  sending,  thou 
shalt  send").  "  I  would  say  Shalach  once,  Tiishalach  twice," 
(said  the  above  scholar  to  Rabha,  and  he  answered:)  "  Shalach 
means  even  hundred  times,  and  Teishalach  signifies  that  even 
if  the  mother  was  needed  for  a  meritorious  purpose  {e.g.,  to 
cleanse  a  leper  [Lev.  xiv.  4]),  it  must  be,  nevertheless,  sent 
away."  The  same  scholar  said  again  to  him :  "It  is  written 
[Lev.  X.  17]:  Hakyach  Toucheach  (literally,  'rebuke,  thou 
shalt  rebuke  ' ) ;  say  the  first  word  means  one,  and  the  second 
two."  And  Rabha  answered:  "  The  first  word  means  even  hun- 
dred times,  and  the  second  means  that  not  only  the  master  must 
rebuke  his  pupil  (when  seeing  him  acting  wrong),  but  even  the 
pupil  must  do  so  to  his  master.  The  same  is  the  case  with  the 
word  [Ex.  xxiii.  5]  Ozob  Tahsob  (literally,  '  help,  thou  shalt 
help  '),  which  means  you  must  give  your  assistance,  even  not  in 
the  presence  of  the  owner;  and  the  same  means  the  word  [Deut. 
xxii.  4]  Hokem  Tokim  (literally,  '  load,  thou  shalt  load  ').  But 
why  does  the  Scripture  repeat  the  same  concerning  unloading 
[Ex.  xxxiii.]  and  loading  [Deut.  xxii.]  ?  It  is  needed.  For  if  it 
would  say  the  first  case  only,  one  might  say  that  because  a  living 
thing  is  inflicted  and  damages  also  he  must  assist,  but  in  the 
other  case  of  loading,  in  which  both  things  do  not  exist,  it  is 
not  so;  and  if  it  would  be  mentioned  in  the  last  case  loading, 
one  might  say  that  he  must  do  so,  because  he  has  a  right  to 
charge  for  his  loss  of  time,  but  in  unloading,  which  must  be 
done  gratuitously,  he  is  not  obliged,  therefore  both  are  writ- 
ten."    [But  according  to  R.  Simeon,  who  holds  that  even  load- 

*  Leeser  translates  according  to  the  sense,  Thou  shalt  surely  return  ;  the  Talmud, 
however,  is  particular  as  to  the  words  which  we  have  translated  literally  in  our  text. 


TRACT   BAEA   MET2IA    (MIDDLE   GATE).  73 

ing  must  be  done  without  any  compensation,  what  can  be  said  ? 
He  may  say  that  the  Scripture  does  not  indicate  which  verse  is 
to  be  explained  for  loading  and  which  for  unloading.  But  could 
not  the  trouble  about  a  lost  article  be  deduced  from  the  above- 
cited  verses  ?  Why  is  it  mentioned  separately  ?  It  is  necessary 
because  one  might  say  that  in  both  cases  above  there  is  an 
infliction  on  a  living  being  and  an  infliction  on  the  owner  also 
(therefore  the  Scripture  prescribes  support),  but  concerning  a 
lost  article,  in  which  there  is  an  infliction  on  the  owner  only 
and  not  on  the  lost  thing,  the  Scripture  would  not  prescribe 
support,  and  the  former  cases  also  cannot  be  deduced  from  the 
latter  one,  because  in  this  case  the  owner  is  not  present  (and 
therefore  support  is  necessary),  which  is  not  so  with  the  former 
cases,  hence  all  of  them  were  necessary.]  The  same  is  with  the 
repetition  of  [Numb.  xxxv.  17]  Moth  F(?<?w^/ (literally,  "  dead,  he 
shall  die  "),  which  means  that  if  it  is  impossible  to  kill  him  by 
the  prescribed  death,  he  may  be  killed  in  any  manner;  the  same 
is  with  [Deut.  xiii.  16]  Hahkie  Thahki  (literally,  "  smite,  thou 
shalt  smite  "),  which  means  if  you  cannot  smite  it  as  prescribed, 
you  must  do  so  in  any  manner;  the  same  is  with  [ibid.  xxiv.  13] 
Hohsheb  Tohshib  (literally,  "  return,  thou  shalt  return  "),  which 
means  that  even  when  the  pledge  was  taken  without  permission 
of  the  court,  it  must  nevertheless  be  returned ;  so  also  [Ex.  xxii. 
23]  Choboiil  Tahchboul  (literally,  "  pledge,  thou  shalt  pledge"), 
which  means  the  same  as  above  [if  so,  to  what  purpose  is  it 
repeated  ?  one  for  a  day  dress  and  the  other  for  a  night  dress] ; 
so  it  is  also  [Deut.  xv.  8]  Pathoach  Tiptahch  (literally,  "  open, 
thou  shalt  open"),  which  means  that  not  only  to  the  poor  of 
your  city  you  are  obligated,  but  also  to  those  of  other  cities;  and 
also  [ibid.,  ibid.  10]  Nauthon  Teetin  (literally,  "  giving,  thou 
shalt  give"),  which  means  both  great  and  small  gifts.  The 
same  is  [ibid.,  ibid.  14]  Hahn^k  Theahnek  (literally,  "  donate, 
thou  shalt  donate"),  which  means  that  you  must  do  so  even  if 
thy  house  was  not  blessed  through  him  [but  according  to  R. 
Elazar  b.  Azaria,  who  holds  that  if  it  was  not  blessed,  he  is  not 
obliged  to  donate,  what  can  be  said  ?  Nothing;  but  the  Scrip- 
ture usually  speaks  like  a  human  being].  So  also  is  with  [ibid., 
ibid.  8*]  Habit  Taabitanov  (literally,  "  lend,  thou  shalt  lend  "), 
which  means  that  not  only  to  him  who  possesses  nothing  and 

*  In  all  repetitions  cited  the  Talmud  takes  the  matter  literally,  though  the 
translators,  especially  Leeser,  whom  we  follow  in  our  work,  translate  differently, 
according  to  the  sense.     Cf.  Leeser's  Bible. 


74  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

refuses  donations,  but  even  to  him  who  possesses  but  does  not 
want  to  use  his  property  for  his  livelihood,  you  must  also  act  the 
same.  [But  according  to  R.  Simeon,  who  denies  any  obligation 
upon  a  person  of  the  latter  case,  what  does  the  repetition  sig- 
nify ?     Nothing;  the  Scripture  speaks  as  stated  above.] 

When  the  loss  of  time  was  the  value  of  a  sala,''  etc.  How 
is  this  to  be  understood  ?  Said  Abayi :  "  The  loss  of  time  must 
be  appraised  according  to  his  loss  in  his  special  trade." 

"  If  there  were  three  men,"  etc.  Issur  and  R.  Saphra  were 
partners  in  business.  Subsequently  R.  Saphra  divided  in  pres- 
ence of  two  witnesses.  Finally  he  came  before  Rabba  bar  R. 
Huna,  and  was  told  to  bring  three  men,  or  two  of  them,  before 
whom  he  divided  the  goods,  or  even  two  witnesses  that  he  has 
done  so  in  presence  of  other  three  men,  and  he  said  to  him : 
"From  what  source  do  you  take  your  decision?"  And  he 
rejoined:  "  From  our  Mishna,  which  states,  '  If  there  were  three 
men,'  etc."  Rejoined  R.  Saphra:  "  What  comparison  is  this  ? 
The  Mishna  treats  of  collecting  money  from  one  to  give  it  to 
another,  and  therefore  a  Beth  Din  of  three  men  was  necessary ; 
but  in  my  case  I  took  that  which  belongs  to  me  only.  Why  do 
not  two  witnesses  suffice  ?  And  my  theory  may  be  supported 
from  a  Mishna  elsewhere,  which  states  that  a  widow  may  sell 
for  her  support  the  goods  of  her  late  husband,  even  not  in  the 
presence  of  a  Beth  Din  (but  before  two  witnesses)."  Said 
Abayi  to  him:  "  But  was  it  not  taught  in  addition  to  your 
Mishna  thus,  R.  Joseph  bar  Minyumi  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'h- 
man  said:  It  means,  she  does  not  need  a  court  of  special  judges, 
but  a  Beth  Din  of  three  common  men  is  nevertheless  neces- 
sary. 

MISHNA  XII. :  If  he  has  found  the  animal  in  a  stable, 
he  is  not  obliged  to  trouble  himself.  In  a  public  thoroughfare, 
however,  he  is.  If  it  was  in  a  cemetery  (and  he  was  a  priest), 
he  must  not  defile  himself.  If  he  was  told  by  his  father  to 
defile  himself,  or  not  to  return  it,  he  must  not  listen  to  him. 
If  he  has  unloaded,  and  reloaded,  and  again  even  four  or  five 
times,  he  is  obliged  to  do  so,  as  it  is  written  [Ex.  xxiii.  5]: 
"  Thou  shalt  surely  help  him."  *  If,  however,  the  owner  went 
away  and  sat  down,  saying:  "  You  are  obliged  by  Scripture  to 
assist  me,  do  so  if  you  want  in  my  absence,"  he  is  not  obliged 
to  do  anything,  as  it  is  written  Eenioii  (literally,  "  with  him  "). 
If,  however,  he  was  old  or  sick,  he  is  free.     The  commandment 

*  See  foot-note  p.  72. 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  75 

of  the  Scripture  is  for  unloading,  but  not  loading.  R.  Simeon, 
however,  maintains  loading  also;  R.  Jose  the  Galilean  said: 
"  If  the  animal  was  overburdened  more  than  it  could  carry, 
there  is  no  liability,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  5],  '  under  his 
burden,'  which  signifies  under  such  a  burden  which  it  can  bear." 

GEMARA:  Rabha  said:  "The  stable  mentioned  in  the 
Mishna  means  that  it  was  of  such  a  kind  where  the  animal  was 
not  afraid  to  stay,  and  also  was  not  locked  in,  and  if  it  wanted 
to  leave  it  could  do  so ;  and  this  is  to  be  inferred  from  the  ex- 
pression, '  He  is  not  obliged.*  It  is  only  in  case  it  is  not  afraid 
to  stay  there,  and  from  the  same  is  also  to  be  inferred  that  the 
stable  was  not  locked,  as  if  it  were  so,  would  it  be  necessary  to 
teach  that  he  is  not  obliged ;  is  it  not  certain  that  when  he  finds 
it  on  the  street,  he  is  obliged  to  place  it  in  such  a  stable,  should 
he  then  be  obliged  to  take  it  out  ?  Hence  infer  that  such  was 
the  case." 

"In  a  public  thoroughfare,  however,  he  is,"  etc.  Said  R. 
Itzhak:  "It  means  when  the  thoroughfare  was  placed  two 
thousand  ells  from  the  town,  not  otherwise,  and  from  this  is  to 
be  inferred  that  the  stable  in  question,  even  if  it  was  placed 
beyond  the  stated  limit,  there  is  no  liability." 

'*  In  a  cemetery,"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  Whence  do  we 
deduce  that  he  must  not  listen  to  his  father  in  the  above-men- 
tioned cases?  It  is  written  [Lev.  xix.  19]:  "Ye  shall  fear 
every  man  his  mother  and  his  father,  and  my  Sabbath  ye  shall 
keep;  I  am  the  Lord,"  which  means  that  ye  all  are  obliged  to 
preserve  my  commandments  (says  the  Gemara);  but  were  it  not 
written  here,  "  and  my  Sabbath  ye  shall  keep,"  you  would  say 
that  he  must  listen  to  his  father  ?  Why  ?  In  case  of  a  lost 
thing  there  is  a  positive  and  negative  commandment  {supra, 
p.  68,  69),  and  honoring  his  father  is  a  positive  commandment 
only,  and  there  is  a  rule  that  one  positive  commandment  does 
not  contradict  a  case  wherein  are  a  positive  and  a  negative  com- 
mandment ?  It  was  necessary  lest  one  say  because  the  honor  of 
parents  is  equal  to  the  honor  of  Omnipotent,  from  an  analogy 
of  expression  "honor"  [Ex.  xx.  12]  and  [Prov.  iii.  9],  "  he 
shall  listen  to  his  father,"  (although  it  is  against  a  command- 
ment), which  teach  us  that  it  is  not  so. 

"But  not  loading,"  etc.  How  is  this  to  be  understood? 
Shall  we  assume  not  loading  at  all  ?  Is  it  not  written  [Deut. 
xxii.  4]:  "  Thou  shalt  surely  help  him  "  ?  Therefore  we  must 
explain  that  the  Mishna  means  thus:  "The  commandment  is 


76  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

to  unload  without  any  compensation,  but  not  loading  without 
any."  R.  Simeon,  however,  sa>s:  "The  same  applies  to  the 
latter,  and  this  explanation  is  as  the  rabbis  taught  plainly: 
'  Unloading  without  a  compensation,  and  loading  with.*  R. 
Simeon,  however,  says:  *  Both  are  equal.'  What  is  the  reason 
of  the  rabbis  ?  Because,  if  it  would  be  according  to  R.  Simeon, 
the  Scripture  would  be  loading  only,  and  the  unloading  would 
be  deduced  by  drawing  an  a  fortiori  conclusion,  as  above  (p.  73), 
and  R.  Simeon  may  answer  as  said  above." 

Rabha  said:  "  From  the  decision  of  both  we  learn  that  a 
living  being  must  not  be  inflicted  is  so  biblically,  as  even  accord- 
ing to  R.  Simeon  the  above  a  fortiori  conclusion  is  not  to  be 
drawn,  because  in  the  Scripture  loading  or  unloading  is  not 
clearly  mentioned,  but  if  it  were,  this  a  fortiori  conclusion 
would  be  drawn ;  hence  the  infliction  in  question  is  so  biblically, 
even  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon  (for  if  not,  how  could  an 
a  fortiori  conzXMSion  be  drawn?);  but  perhaps  the  same  would 
be  drawn  not  from  the  infliction,  but  from  the  damage;  thus, 
in  case  of  loading,  wherein  there  is  not  any  damage,  he  is  obli- 
gated so  much  the  more  in  case  of  unloading,  wherein  there  is 
damage  ?  Does,  then,  the  Scripture  treat  only  of  a  case  wherein 
there  is  no  damage  ?  How,  then,  is  it  if,  e.g.,  when  the  man  is 
going  to  a  fair  and  is  prevented  from  reaching  it  by  some  occur- 
rence, or  if  in  the  mean  time  all  his  goods  are  stolen  (is  one  not 
obliged  to  help  him)  ?  And  one  more  support,  that  the  inflic- 
tion in  question  is  so  biblically,  is  to  be  found  in  the  latter  part. 
R.  Jose  the  Galilean  says:  "If  he  was  overloaded,"  etc.,  from 
which  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  first  Tana  holds  even  in  such  a 
case  one  is  obliged  to  help,  and  this  only  because  of  the  inflic- 
tion of  the  animal.  But  perhaps  they  (first  Tana,  R.  Jose)  diff"er 
only  in  that  verse  from  which  R.  Jose  deduces  his  decision, 
and  the  rabbis  do  not  care  to  deduce  it  (not  because  the  inflic- 
tion in  question  is  biblically);  furthermore,  it  maybe  deduced 
that  it  is  not  so  biblically  from  the  first  part,  which  states  that 
in  absence  of  the  owner  one  is  not  obliged  to  help ;  and  if  the 
infliction  in  question  is  biblically,  what  difference  is  it  whether 
the  owner  is  present  or  absent  (he  is  biblically  obliged  to  redeem 
the  animal  of  its  infliction  at  any  rate)  ?  Nay,  the  infliction  is 
so  biblically,  and  the  decision  that  in  the  absence  of  the  owner 
he  is  free,  is  not  to  be  understood  as  meaning  entirely  free,  but 
free  to  do  it  without  compensation ;  but  in  the  absence  of  the 
owner  he  must  do  for  compensation.     This  is  supported  by  the 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  77 

following  Boraitha:  "An  animal  belonging  to  a  heathen,  he 
must  trouble  himself  with  it  as  it  were  an  Israelite's."  This  is 
correct.  If  the  infliction  is  biblically  there  is  no  difference  to 
whom  the  animal  belongs  ;  but  if  it  is  not  biblically,  why  must 
he  trouble  himself  about  a  heathen's  animal?  It  may  be  said 
he  must  do  so  not  to  cause  animosity,  and  so  it  seems  from  the 
latter  part,  which  states:  "If  it  was  loaded  with  prohibited 
wine,  he  need  do  nothing  with  it."  And  this  can  apply  only 
when  the  infliction  is  not  biblically;  for  if  it  is,  what  difference  is 
it  with  what  material  the  animal  was  loaded  ?  Nay,  the  Bo- 
raitha means  to  say  that  if  there  was  prohibited  wine  to  load, 
he  should  have  nothing  to  do  with  it.  Come  and  hear  (another 
objection).  If  his  friend  was  needed  to  unload,  and  his  enemy 
was  needed  to  load,  it  is  a  meritorious  act  to  help  the  enemy 
for  the  purpose  of  overcoming  his  wicked  nature.  Now  if  the 
infliction  is  biblically,  his  friend  should  have  the  preference, 
because  his  animal  is  inflicted  ?  Notwithstanding  this,  the 
overcoming  of  his  wicked  nature  has  the  preference.  Come  and 
hear.  The  enemy  in  question  is  meant  an  Israelite  and  not  an 
enemy,  an  idolater.  Now  if  the  infliction  would  be  biblically, 
what  difference  is  it  who  the  enemy  was  ?  (The  animal  is  in- 
flicted.) Do  you  think  the  enemy  in  question  means  the  enemy 
mentioned  in  the  Bible  [Ex.  xxiii.  5]  ?  it  means  the  enemy 
mentioned  in  the  Boraitha  (who  needs  help  in  loading).  Come 
and  hear.  The  word  lying,  in  the  just  cited  verse,  means  that 
the  lying  occurred  through  the  burden,  but  not  when  his  habit 
was  to  lie  down  while  under  burden,  "  lying  "  and  not  when  it 
was  standing,  "  under  his  burden"  and  not  when  it  was  un- 
loaded, "his  burden"  such  as  it  could  stand,  but  not  other- 
wise. Now  if  the  infliction  is  biblically,  what  difference  is  it 
between  lying  and  standing  ?  The  Boraitha  is  in  accord  with 
R.  Jose  the  Galilean,  who  holds  that  the  infliction  is  not  bibli- 
cally, and  it  seems  to  be  so  from  the  statement  "  under  such 
a  burden  which  it  could  stand,"  and  such  a  theory  was  heard 
from  R.  Jose  only. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  It  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  5]  "if  thou 
see  ' ' ;  one  may  say  that  even  when  he  was  far  away ;  therefore  it 
is  written  [ibid.  3]  "  if  thou  meet " ;  and  lest  one  say  that  only 
by  an  exact  meeting  (but  not  when  he  happened  to  be  near 
him),  therefore  it  is  written  "  if  thou  see,"  to  indicate  that  his 
seeing  was  when  it  was  possible  to  meet  him ;  and  the  conjecture 
of  the  sages  was  a  seventh  and  half  part  of  a  mile  distant,  which 


78  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

was  known  as  a  riss.  A  Boraitha  in  addition  to  this  states  that 
he  must  accompany  him  the  distance  of  a  passu.  Said  Rabba 
bar  bar  Ham  a:  "  Provided  he  is  paid." 

MISHNA  XIII. :  If  one  lost  a  thing  as  did  his  father  before, 
his  own  has  preference.  The  same  is  the  case  with  his  master. 
If,  however,  his  father  and  his  master  have  lost  an  article  at  the 
same  time,  his  master  has  preference  because  his  father  brought 
him  only  into  this  world,  while  his  master,  who  taught  him  wis- 
dom, brings  him  into  the  world  to  come ;  if,  however,  his  father 
was  a  sage,  he  has  the  preference  {i.e.,  to  trouble  himself  for 
him).  If  his  father  and  his  master  were  overburdened,  he 
should  unload  his  master  first,  and  after  his  father.  If  both 
were  in  prison,  his  master  has  preference  to  be  redeemed ;  if, 
however,  his  father  was  a  sage,  he  has  the  preference. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  this  deduced  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in 
the  name  of  Rabh:  "  It  is  written  [Deut.  xv.  4]  '  No  needy 
man  among  thee '  *  (above,  p.  69),  which  means  that  yours  has 
the  preference  always."  The  same  said  again  in  the  name  of 
the  same  authority:  "  Although  the  law  is  exactly  so,  he  who 
always  acts  accordingly  will  finally  need  the  support  of  others." 
(Rashi  explains  this  that  he  who  is  always  particular  that  Ae 
shall  have  the  preference  absolves  himself  of  charity,  of  bestow- 
ing favors,  and  is  not  respected,  and  therefore  he  stands  alone 
and  will  finally  need  support.) 

"  1/  his  father  and  his  master  were  overloaded,'"  etc.  The 
rabbis  taught:  "  The  master  in  question  is  meant  one  who  has 
taught  him  the  wisdom  of  Gemara  "  {i.e.,  the  reasons  of  the  de- 
cisions of  the  Mishna  and  that  they  do  not  contradict  each 
other,  and  some  sense  for  allowed  and  not  allowed  obligations 
and  absolutions  of  the  Scripture, — Rashi);  "  but  not  who  taught 
him  Scripture,  exact  Mishnayoth,"  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Meir.  R. 
Jehudah  says:  He  who  taught  him  the  greater  part  of  his  wisdom 
only  is  considered  his  master.  R.  Jose,  however,  maintains: 
"  That  even  if  he  enlighted  his  eyes  in  only  one  Mishna,  he  is 
to  be  considered  his  master."  Said  Rabha:  "As,  e.g.,  R. 
Sh'orah,  who  explained  to  me  the  word  Zuhma  with  the  word 
Listrum."  f    Samuel  tore  his  garment  at  the  death  of  one  of  the 

*  The  Scripture  reads  Bekha,  literally  in  thee,  which  the  Talmud  explains,  there 
shall  be  no  needy  in  thyself. 

f  In  Section  Jaharot  (Keilim,  XXV.,  3)  this  word  is  to  be  found,  and  Rabha  said  : 
*'  It  was  known  to  me  that  it  is  a  vessel  but  I  did  not  know  what  kind,  and  he 
explained  to  me  that  it  means  a  soup  strainer  "  (Rashi). 


TRACT  BABA  METZIA  (MIDDLE  GATE).     79 

rabbis  who  had  explained  to  him  only  one  expression  in  the 
Gemara.  Said  Ula:  "  The  Babylonian  sages  arise  one  before 
another,  and  tear  their  garments,  for  the  death  of  one  of  their 
colleagues ;  however,  concerning  a  lost  thing  of  which  the  mas- 
ter has  preference,  they  do  not  consider  only  the  master  of 
whom  he  had  learned  the  greater  part  of  his  wisdom." 

R.  Hisda  questioned  R.  Huna:  How  is  it  with  a  disciple 
whom  his  master  needed  ?  And  he  answered:  "  Hisda,  Hisda, 
I  have  not  any  need  for  you ;  you,  however,  need  me  for  forty 
years  more."  They  both  became  angry,  and  did  not  visit  each 
other  any  more.  R.  Hisda,  however,  fasted  forty  days  for  the 
disgrace  of  R.  Huna,  and  R.  Huna  did  the  same  because  he  sus- 
pected that  R.  Hisda  with  his  question  meant  him.  "  It  was 
taught :  R.  Itzhak  b.  Joseph  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said : 
The  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah.  R.  Aha 
b.  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  R.  Shes'heth  said :  The  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  R.  Jose."  Could  R.  Johanan  say  so  ? 
Did  he  not  say  elsewhere  that  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accord- 
ance with  an  anonymous  Mishna,  and  our  Mishna  states  his 
master,  who  taught  him  wisdom  ?  By  the  word  wisdom,  i.e., 
the  greater  of  his  wisdom. 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  They  who  occupy  themselves  with  the 
study  of  Scripture  are  not  to  be  blamed,  but,  on  the  other  hand, 
not  to  be  praised.  With  the  Mishnayoth,  however,  they  are  to 
be  praised,  and  will  be  rewarded ;  but  with  the  Gemara  there  is 
not  a  better  custom.  However,  look  to  occupy  thyself  with  the 
Mishnayoth  better  than  with  the  Gemara."  Does  not  the 
Boraitha  contradict  itself  ?  It  states  there  is  not  a  better  cus- 
tom than  the  Gemara,  and  immediately  it  states,  Occupy  thyself 
with  the  Mishna.  Said  R.  Johanan:  "  In  the  time  of  Rabbi 
the  above  Mishna  was  taught ;  in  consequence  all  the  disciples 
left  the  Mishna  and  started  the  Gemara;  he  therefore  lectured 
again,  "  Occupy  thyself  better  with  Mishnayoth,"  etc.,  and  sub- 
sequently his  above  lecture  was  added  to  the  Mishna.*     What 

*  This  remarkable  statement  is  interpreted  by  Rashi  thus :  When  the  disciples 
of  Shamai  and  Hillel  increased  to  a  great  number  (about  three  generations  before 
Rabbi),  differing  and  quarrelling  so,  that  it  looked  as  if  there  were  two  Torahs.  In 
addition  to  this,  persecution  by  the  government  was  increased  daily,  and  new  dis- 
agreeable decisions  were  renewed  day  by  day,  so  that  they  could  not  give  the 
proper  attention  to  revise  the  point  of  their  differences,  until  the  days  of  Rabbi. 
When  the  Almighty  gave  him  grace  in  the  eyes  of  Antoninus  Caesar  of  Rome, 
who  abolished  all  the  disagreeable  decisions,  and  Rabbi  had  the  opportunity  to 
compile  the  Mishnayoth,  which  was  oral  until  his  time.     He  assembled  all  the  disciples 


8o  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

was  the  basis  of  the  above-mentioned  lecture  ?  R.  Jehudah  b. 
Ilayl  lectured  as  follows:  "  It  is  written  [Isaiah,  xvi.  5]:  '  Hear 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  ye  that  tremble  of  his  word.  Your  breth- 
ren that  hated  you,  that  cast  you  out  for  the  sake  of  my  name, 
said,  Let  the  Lord  be  glorified,  but  he  will  appear  to  your 
joy,  and  they  shall  be  made  ashamed.'"  "Tremble  of  his 
word"  means  the  scholars  who  study  Gemara;  "your  breth- 
ren "  means  those  who  study  the  Scripture;  "  that  hated  you  " 
means  the  students  of  the  Mishnayoth  (the  students  of  the 
Mishnayoth,  says  Rashi,  hated  the  students  of  the  Gemara, 
because  the  latter  had  decided  that  the  students  of  the  Mishna- 
yoth, without  Gemara,  are  the  destroyers  of  the  world,  because 
they  act  according  to  the  Mishnayoth  without  knowledge  ot 
their  sources  and  bases,  and  very  often  the  Halakha  does  noc 
prevail  according  to  their  decisions) ;  "  that  cast  you  out  "  means 
the  common  people.  But  lest  one  say  their  hope  has  ceased, 
therefore  it  is  written  :  "  He  will  appear  to  your  joy  "  ;  and  may 
one  say  that  Israel  will  be  ashamed,  therefore  it  is  written :  "  And 
they  (the  idolaters)  shall  be  ashamed,  and  Israel  will  rejoice."  * 


of  Palestine,  and  each  of  them  had  to  report  a  Halakha  which  he  had  heard  from  a 
great  man,  which  was  written  down  in  the  name  of  each  author,  and  only  then  the 
sections  of  the  Mishnayoth  were  classified  ;  i.e. ,  the  Halakhas  which  belong  to  damages, 
women,  festivals,  etc.,  were  selected,  separated  in  sections.  Rabbi,  however,  omitted 
from  some  Mishnayoth  the  name  of  their  author  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  the 
Halakha  accordingly,  which  probably  could  not  be  done  if  it  were  taught  in  the  name 
of  individuals,  and  when  this  was  done,  the  Mishna  mentioned  in  the  text  was  said, 
»./.,  "there  is  not  a  better  custom  than  to  study  the  Gemara,"  which  means,  to 
understand  the  sources  and  reasons  of  the  decisions  of  the  Mishnayoth.  But  when 
RabM  saw  that  all  had  occupied  themselves  with  the  study  of  Gemara,  without 
repeating  the  Mishnayoth  itself,  he  was  afraid  that  the  name  of  the  sages  and  the 
obligation  would  be  changed,  so  he  lectured  again  :  "  Occupy  thyself  with  Mishna- 
yoth." See  our  brief  general  introduction.  Section  Festivals,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xv,  in  which 
we  give  the  history  of  the  Mishnayoth  differently,  the  basis  of  our  opinion  being  the 
majority,  who  differ  with  Rashi,  and  say  that  the  Mishnayoth  was  written  down 
many  generations  before  the  time  of  Rabbi.  In  our  periodical  "  Hakol,"  Vol.  VI., 
No.  I ,  we  published  an  article  pointing  out  all  the  names  of  them  who  agree  with 
Rashi  and  all  those  who  are  contrary,  also  the  opinion  of  the  late  famous  Dr.  Gelle- 
nik.  See  also  "  Dour  Dour  Vedourshow,"  by  I.  H.  Wise.  All  details  of  this  matter 
for  the  English  reader  will  be  found  in  our  forthcoming  history  of  the  Talmud. 

*  We  have  followed  Leeser  in  the  translation  of  the  verse.  It  seems,  however, 
that  the  verse  was  different  before  the  Talmudist,  as  the  end  mentioned  in  the  text  is 
not  to  be  found  there,  and  also  the  translation,  "  he  will  appear  to  your  joy,"  is  not 
in  accordance  with  the  Talmud,  which  translates,  "and  we  will  see  your  joy,"  and 
Rashi  explains  that  the  prophet  says,  "I  and  all  your  brethren  mentioned  above 
will  see  your  joy."  It  may  be,  however,  that  the  end  of  the  verse  was  added  only 
because  it  is  the  end  of  this  chapter,  and  their  custom  was  to  finish  with  a  good  word. 


CHAPTER   III. 

LAWS  RELATING  TO  BAILMENTS,  HIRERS,  LOSSES  ON  DEPOSITED 
ARTICLE  AS  TO  THEIR  QUANTITY  AND  THEIR  QUALITY,  AS  TO 
THE  CARE  TO  BE  BESTOWED  ON  DEPOSITED  ARTICLES  BY  THE 
DEPOSITARY,    AND    OF    MONEY    WHETHER   IT    MAY    BE   USED. 

MISHNA  /. :  If  one  has  deposited  an  animal  or  vessel  with 
his  neighbor,  and  they  were  stolen  or  lost,  and  he  paid,  because 
he  refused  to  take  an  oath  [according  to  the  law  that  a  gratui- 
tous bailee  must  swear  and  is  acquitted],  and  thereafter  the  thief 
was  found,  who  must  pay  the  double  amount,  or  in  case  he 
has  slaughtered  or  sold,  four  and  five  fold,  to  whom  shall  he 
pay  ?  To  him  who  has  kept  the  bailment.  If,  however,  the 
bailee  took  an  oath,  because  he  refuses  to  pay,  and  the  thief  was 
found,  he  must  pay  the  above-mentioned  amount  to  the  owner. 

GEMARA :  ''He  has  paid,  because  he  refused^'  etc.  Said 
R.  Hyya  bar  Abba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  "  The  expres- 
sion *  paid  *  is  not  to  be  understood  that  he  has  done  so  already, 
but  if  he  said,  *  I  will  pay,'  it  is  to  be  considered  paid."  And 
there  is  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  his  statement,  viz. :  "  If 
one  has  hired  a  cow  of  his  neighbor,  and  it  was  stolen,  and  the 
hirer  said,  I  will  pay  rather  than  take  an  oath  (that  it  was  not  an 
accident),  and  thereafter  the  thief  was  found,  the  double  amount 
belongs  to  the  hirer." 

R.  Papa  said  :  "  A  gratuitous  bailee,  when  he  said,  *  I  have 
neglected  my  duty  '  (which  makes  liable  for  payment),  acquires- 
title  of  the  double  amount  because  he  could  be  acquitted  if  he 
should  claim  it  was  stolen.  The  same  is  the  case  with  a  bailee 
for  hire,  when  he  claims  '  stolen,'  because  he  could  be  acquitted 
by  claiming  it  was  crippled  or  died  (in  which  case  he  is  not  re- 
sponsible) ;  and  also  a  borrower,  if  he  said,  I  am  ready  to  pay,  he 
acquires  title  for  the  double  amount,  as  he  could  acquit  himself 
by  claiming  the  animal  had  died  while  laboring."  Said  R.  Zbid 
to  him :  "  So  said  Abayi :  A  borrower  does  not  acquire  title  of 
the  double  amount,  unless  he  has  already  paid.  Why  so?  for  all 
the  benefit  he  has  derived  was  only  upon  his  word,  without  any 
6  8i 


82  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

actual  payment.  It  is  not  sufficient  his  saying,  I  am  ready  to 
pay."  And  there  is  a  Boraitha  supporting  him:  "If  one  bor- 
rowed a  cow  of  his  neighbor,  and  it  was  stolen,  and  the  borrower 
hastened  and  paid,  and  thereafter  the  thief  was  found,  the  double 
amount  belongs  to  the  borrower."  Shall  we  assume  that  the 
Boraitha  is  an  objection  to  R.  Papa's  statement  ?  He  may  say, 
has,  then,  the  Boraitha  more  strength  than  our  Mishna — does  not 
the  Mishna  state,  "  and  he  paid,"  and  nevertheless  it  was  inter- 
preted that  the  same  is  the  case  if  he  says,  "  I  will  pay  "  ?  Why 
should  not  this  same  explanation  apply  to  the  Boraitha?  But 
what  comparison  is  it  ?  The  Boraitha  states,  "  he  hastened  and 
paid,"  which  is  not  the  case  in  the  Mishna.  But  why  should 
it  not  be  explained  he  hastened  to  say,  "  I  will  pay  "  ?  Nay, 
the  same  Boraitha  expresses  in  the  case  of  a  hirer,  "  he  said,''  and 
in  the  case  of  a  borrower,  "  hastened,"  hence  the  Boraitha  was 
particular  as  to  its  word.  But  whence  do  we  know  that  the 
Boraitha's  statements  were  taught  together—  perhaps  each  state- 
ment was  taught  seperately,  consequently  no  special  attention 
must  be  paid  to  the  wording  ?  The  disciples  of  R.  Hyya  and 
R.  Oshia  were  questioned,  and  the  answer  was,  that  all  the  state- 
ments of  the  above  Boraitha  were  delivered  at  one  time. 

It  is  certain  that  if  he  previously  said,  "  I  will  not  pay,"  and 
afterwards  he  declared,  "  I  will,"  it  is  a  reconsideration  and  must 
be  counted  ;  but  how  is  it  if  it  is  vice  versa  ?  Shall  we  assume 
this  also  a  reconsideration,  or  perhaps  he  intended  to  pay,  but  as 
he  had  no  cash,  he  only  postponed  payment  ?  Also  how  is  it  if 
ke  promised  to  pay,  and  dies,  and  his  heirs  refuse,  or  he  dies  with- 
out saying  anything,  and  his  heirs  pay,  does  the  double  amount 
belong  to  them,  or  can  he  say  to  them,  "  If  your  father  would 
promise  to  pay  I  would  be  pleased  to  transfer  the  double  amount 
to  him,  but  with  you  I  have  nothing  to  do,  as  probably  you  were 
aware  of  the  double  amount,  and,  therefore,  you  paid  "  ?  These 
questions  are  not  decided.  R.  Huna  said  :  "  In  all  cases  an  oath 
is  given  to  the  bailee  that  at  that  time  the  article  is  not  in  his 
possession,  for  fear,  perhaps,  he  would  prefer  to  keep  the  article 
for  himself,  and,  therefore,  he  paid  for  it."  * 

There  was  a  man  who  deposited  a  nose  jewel  with  his  friend, 
and  when  being  required  to  return,  he  said,  "  I  do  not  know 
where  I   put  it,"  and  when  the  case  came  before  R.  Na'hman,  he 


*  There  are  objections  and  answers  concerning  oaths,  which  are  repeated  in 
Tract  Shebuoth  (Oaths),  therefore  omitted  here. 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE   GATE).  8^ 

said  :  "  Such  an  answer  shows  a  neglect  of  duty,  and  you  must 
pay."  The  man  did  not  submit  to  R.  Na'hman's  decision,  unless 
R.  Na'hman  made  him  pay  by  force.  Finally,  the  article  was 
found,  and  was  increased  in  value.  Said  R.  Na'hman :  "  Return 
it  to  its  owner  and  have  your  money  refunded."  Said  Rabha: 
"  I  was  sitting  before  R.  Na'hman  when  he  decided  the  above 
case,  and  our  study  was  in  this  chapter,  and  I  questioned  him,  Is 
not  this  case  equal  to  the  statement  of  our  Mishna :  If  he  paid 
and  refused  to  swear,  etc.,  and  R.  Na'hman  did  not  answer,  (and 
thus  deliberating  this  matter  I  came  to  the  conclusion  that)  it 
was  right  in  him  not  to  answer,  because  the  case  in  our  Mishna 
does  not  treat  of  a  case  where  he  was  troubled  by  the  court,  as 
in  this  case."  (Says  the  Gemara:)  "  Shall  we  assume  that  R.  Na'h- 
man holds  that  property  appraised  by  the  court,  for  the  sake  of 
the  creditor,  and  delivered  to  him,  should  be  returned  to  the 
defendant  when  he  brings  cash  ?  Nay  !  The  above  case  of  the 
nose  jewel  is  different ;  as  the  article  was  in  his  possession,  no 
appraisement  could  be  made ;  hence  the  appraisement  itself 
was  an  error.  (However,  when  the  court  appraises  by  examin- 
ing the  article,  no  change  is  to  be  made.)  The  sages  of  Nahar- 
dea,  however,  hold  that  even  a  correct  appraisement  by  the 
court  is  to  be  returned  in  twelve  months  (when  the  defendant 
brings  cash).  Said  Amemor :  "  I  myself  am  a  Nahardean,  and 
I  hold  that  an  appraisement  is  always  to  be  returned."  (Said 
the  Gemara :)  '*  So  the  Halakha  prevails,  because  it  is  written 
[Deut.  vi.  i8]  :  "And  thou  shalt  do  that  which  is  right  and 
good,"  etc.* 

It  is  certain,  when  it  was  appraised  for  the  sake  of  a  creditor, 
and  the  latter  appraised  it  for  his  own  creditor,  the  returning  may 
take  place,  because  it  may  be  said  to  the  latter  creditor.  You  can- 
not be  entitled  to  any  more  privilege  than  this  defendant.  The 
reverse  is  the  case  when  the  creditor  sold  it,  or  gave  it  as  a 
present,  because  the  intention  of  the  people  was  given  to  the 
estate  but  not  to  the  value  of  it.  The  same  is  the  case  if  it  was 
appraised  for  a  widow  (according  to  her  marriage  contract)  and 
she  remarried,  and  the  same  is  also  when  the  estate  was  appraised 
for  the  sake  of  a  creditor  of  a  widow,  and  after  she  remarried  and 
died  her  husband  cannot  require  for  returning,  as  he  is  considered 
a  buyer  (and  not  an  heir),  to  whom  the  law  prescribes  no  returning 


*  Of  which  it  is  to  be  deduced  that  if  it  is  possible  to  moderate  the  strict  law 
without  any  trouble  it  must  be  done. 


84  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

shall  take  place,  neither  by  nor  to  him.  As  R.  Jose  said  :  "  It  was 
enacted  in  the  city  of  Usha  that  if  a  woman  sold  her  estate, 
called  mulgeo*  {i.e.,  an  estate  in  which  her  husband  has  the 
usufruct,  the  use  of  the  products  and  the  principal  estate  remain 
hers)  while  her  husband  is  yet  alive  and  she  dies,  the  husband 
may  take  it  away  from  the  hands  of  the  buyer."  If,  however,  the 
creditor  took  the  estate  for  his  debt  without  appraisement,  but 
with  the  admission  of  his  creditors,  it  may  be  returned  or  not. 
R.  A'ha  and  Rabbina  differ ;  according  to  one  it  may  not,  because 
it  was  a  correct  sale,  as  the  debtor  had  given  it  with  his  good  will ; 
and  according  to  the  other  it  may,  because  the  sale  is  not  to  be 
considered  a  good  one,  as  the  debtor  did  it  only  because  he  was 
ashamed  to  go  to  court,  but  not  with  his  good  will. 

From  what  time  may  the  creditor  use  the  products  of  an 
appraised  estate  ?  According  to  Rabba,  as  soon  as  the  warrant 
reaches  him ;  and  according  to  Abayi,  from  the  time  the  warrant 
was  signed  by  the  court.  Rabha,  however,  says:  ''The  war- 
rant that  the  estate  shall  be  sold  for  his  debt  does  not  suffice 
even  when  it  is  in  the  hands  of  the  creditor,  provided  the  time 
of  heraldry  had  elapsed."  (The  previous  products,  however,  be- 
long to  the  debtor.) 

MISHNA  //. :  If  one  has  hired  a  cow  and  he  loaned  it  to 
some  one  else,  and  it  died  a  natural  death,  the  hirer  takes  an  oath 
that  the  death  was  natural,  and  the  borrower  must  pay  to  the 
hirer.  Said  R.  Jose :  "  How  could  the  hirer  do  business  with 
the  cow,  which  did  not  belong  to  him  ?  Therefore  the  cow,  or 
the  value  of  it,  must  be  returned  to  the  owner." 

GEMARA  :  Said  R.  Idi  b.  Abin  to  Abayi :  "  Is  not  the  oath 
the  only  reason  for  acquiring  title  ?  Let  then  the  owner  say : 
Keep  aloof  from  this  case  with  your  oath,  and  I  will  summon 
your  borrower  (as  it  did  not  die  while  in  your  possession).  It  will 
be  better  for  me  to  summon  the  borrower  (who  is  responsible 
even  for  an  accident)."  And  Abayi  answered :  "  Do  you  think 
that  the  oath  is  the  only  reason  for  the  title  ?  It  is  not  so.  The 
title  is  acquired  with  the  death  of  the  animal,  the  title  of  its  value 
is  acquired  to  the  hirer,  and  the  oath  is  only  to  please  the  owner." 

R.  Zera  said :  "  It  can  happen  that  the  hirer  has  a  right  to 
require  several  cows  from  the  owner  for  one  cow.  How  so  ?  (As 
the  explanation  of  this  queer  proposition  is  so  clearly  illustrated 


*  Mulgeo  means  milking,  and  it  is  used  in  a  case  where  the  milk  is  always  drawn 
away,  and  the  cow,  the  principal,  loses  nothing  by  the  operation. 


TRACT   BABA    METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  85 

by  Rashi,  we  omit  the  explanation  given  in  the  Gemara,  and  we 
append  it  in  a  foot-note.*)  Said  R.  A'ha  of  Difta  to  Rabbina : 
"  Let  us  see.  It  was  only  one  animal  which  was  going  from  borrow- 
ing to  hiring,  and  vice  versa.  Why  then  should  he  furnish  him 
with  four — is  it  not  sufficient  he  should  furnish  him  with  two,  one 
of  them  to  remain  the  property  of  A  and  the  other  for  the 
remaining  labor  days  "  ?  And  Rabbina  answered  :  "  Is  then  the 
animal  yet  alive,  that  it  could  be  said  so  ?  The  animal  is  dead, 
and  there  were  two  cases  of  hiring  and  two  cases  of  borrowing, 
and  he  has  a  right  to  receive  compensation  for  each  case,  also 
for  each  hiring  of  the  labor  days."  Mar  bar  R.  Ashi,  however, 
maintains :  "  A  is  entitled  to  two  cows  only,  one  for  both  cases 
of  hiring,  and  one  for  both  cases  of  borrowing ;  as  the  cases  under 
one  name  cannot  be  considered  two,  because  all  this  occurred 
with  only  one  animal  (as  explained  above)." 

It  was  taught :  "  A  bailee  who  has  transferred  the  bailment  to 
another  bailee,  according  to  Rabh  the  first  bailee  has  the  same 
responsibility  as  if  he  would  take  care  of  it  himself,  {i.e.  he  is 
free  from  accident).  According  to  R.  Johanan,  the  first  one  is 
responsible  even  for  an  accident."  Said  Abayi :  "According  to 
Rabh's  theory,  not  only  a  gratuitous  bailee  who  transferred  to  a 
bailee  for  hire,  who  has  increased  the  responsibility  of  it,  is  not 
responsible  any  more  than  the  prescribed  law  of  such  a  bailee,  but 
even  if  he  was  a  bailee  for  hire  and  he  transferred  it  to  a  gratuitous 
bailee,  that  the  responsibility  was  decreased  ;  the  same  is  the  case, 
because  he  transferred  it  to  one  who  was  able  to  take  care  of  it 
(consequently  he  did  not  neglect  his  duty);  and  according  to  R. 
Johanan's  theory,  not  only  a  bailee  for  hire  who  transferred  it  to 
a  gratuitous  bailee,  in  which  the  responsibility  was  decreased,  but 

*  A  hired  an  animal  of  B  that  he  should  labor  with  it  one  hundred  days,  and  then 
B  asked  A,  as  a  favor,  he  should  loan  it  to  him  for  ninety  days  of  the  hundred,  and 
subsequently  he  should  return  it  to  A  for  the  remaining  ten  days,  and  if  death  occurred 
during  the  time  it  was  yet  borrowed,  B,  although  he  is  the  owner,  is  now  considered 
a  borrower  only,  who  is  responsible.  But  if  A  after  he  had  loaned  the  hired  cow  to 
B,  the  owner,  hired  the  same  again  for  eighty  days,  B  is  considered  a  borrower  of  the 
animal,  who  hired  it  to  another  one  for  labor.  Now  if  the  animal  dies  while  under 
the  control  of  A  he  has  only  to  take  an  oath  that  the  death  was  natural  and  B  must 
furnish  him  with  another  cow  instead.  If,  however,  B  has  borrowed  it  again  for 
seventy  days  out  of  the  eighty  of  the  second  hiring,  and  death  occurs  while  under  B's 
control,  then  A  has  only  to  take  an  oath  for  the  natural  death,  and  ^B,  the  borrower, 
has  to  furnish  A  with  four  cows — two  for  the  two  times  he  has  borrowed  from  him, 
i.e.,  as  the  time  of  his  borrowing  is  not  yet  elapsed  it  is  considered  as  if  he  had  loaned 
him  two  animals  and  two  deaths  occurred,  and  the  other  two  he  must  furnish  hini  f.  .1 
the  remaining  labor  days  he  hired  from  him.  / 


86  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

even  a  gratuitous  bailee  who  transferred  it  to  a  bailee  for  hire,  in 
which  the  responsibility  was  increased,  he  is  nevertheless  respon- 
sible for  all  that  occurs,  because  the  owner  may  say,  "I  have 
trusted  the  bailment  to  you,  not  to  any  one  else,  as  I  did  not 
want  the  bailment  to  be  under  the  control  of  some  one  else." 
Said  R.  Hisda:  "Rabh's  statement  was  not  made  by  him  di- 
rectly, but  it  was  inferred  from  an  act  which  happened,  namely : 
There  were  gardeners  who  had  deposited  their  spades  at  a  certain 
old  woman's ;  one  day,  however,  one  of  them  gave  it  for  safe- 
keeping to  his  comrade,  and  when  the  latter  heard  voices  from  a 
wedding  procession  and  wanted  to  accompany  it,  he  transferred 
the  spade  of  the  above  to  the  old  woman,  and  when  he  returned, 
he  found  it  was  stolen.  When  the  case  came  before  Rabh,  he 
acquitted  him.  Those  who  have  heard  this  decision  thought 
that  it  was  because  of  the  law  that  a  bailee  who  transfers  the 
bailment  to  another  bailee  is  free ;  in  reality,  however,  Rabh 
acquitted  him  because  the  depositor  himself  used  to  deposit  his 
articles  with  the  same  old  woman ;  consequently  he  could  not 
claim  that  he  would  not  trust  her  with  his  bailment.  R.  Ami  was 
sitting  and  declaring  the  just  stated  Halakha,  and  R.  Abba  bar 
Mammal  objected  to  his  statement  from  our  Mishna :  "  One 
hired  a  cow,"  etc.  Now  if  the  above  statement  is  correct,  why 
could  not  the  owner  of  the  animal  claim,  "  I  did  not  want  that  my 
bailment  should  be  under  the  control  of  another  one  "  ?  And  he 
answered :  The  Mishna  treats  of  a  case  where  the  owner  gave 
him  permission  to  loan  it  to  some  one.  If  so,  the  owner  has  a 
right  to  the  value  of  the  cow?  The  owner  told  him.  You  can  do 
so  to  whomever  you  like  (and  so  he  cannot  claim  any  more  that 
he  does  not  want  his  bailment  to  be  under  another's  control). 

Rami  bar  Hama  objected  to  this  from  Mishna  VII.,  in  this 
chapter,  which  states  that  if  he  transferred  them  to  his  little 
children,  etc.,  of  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  if  he  would  trans- 
fer them  to  his  big  children,  he  would  be  free.  Why  so  ?  The 
owner  could  claim,  "  I  do  not  want  my  bailment  to  be  under  an- 
other's control."  Said  Rabha  :  "  Usually,  when  one  deposits  an 
article  for  safekeeping  with  any  one,  he  intends  that  he  may  ask 
his  wife  and  children  to  take  care  of  it,  and  the  sages  of  Nahardea 
said :  "  That  it  seems  the  cited  Mishna  is  rightly  explained  so, 
as  it  states,  *  his  little  children,'  of  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that 
if  he  would  give  it  to  the  care  of  the  big  ones,  he  would  be  free." 

However,  the  case  is  only  with  his  children,  not  with  strangers, 
for  if  he  would  transfer  them  to  strangers,  he  would  be  responsible 


TRACT   BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE   GATE).  87 

at  any  rate,  for  the  reason  that  the  bailee  can  claim  that  he  did  not 
want  it  in  the  control  of  another,  as  stated  above."  Rabha  said : 
"  The  Halakha  prevails,  that  a  bailee  who  has  transferred  the 
bailment  to  another  bailee  of  any  kind  is  responsible.  Why  so'* 
Because  the  owner  may  say,  that  you  alone  are  trusted  by  me 
with  an  oath,  but  not  the  man  to  whom  you  have  transferred  it." 
It  was  taught :  "  If  the  bailee  has  neglected  his  duty,  and  the 
animal  was  going  out  to  the  rushes  and  dies  a  natural  death, 
Abayi  in  the  name  of  Rabba  makes  him  liable,  and  said  :  That 
any  judge  who  would  decide  to  the  contrary  is  not  worthy  to  be  a 
judge,  as  not  only  according  to  him  who  holds  that  if  an  accident 
follows  a  neglect,  there  is  a  liability,  he  is  responsible,  but  even 
according  to  him  who  holds  that  in  such  a  case  there  is  no  lia- 
bility, in  this  case  he  would  admit  that  he  is  responsible.  Why  so  ? 
Because  it  may  be  said  that  the  air  of  the  rushes  killed  it  (hence 
it  is  not  the  accident,  but  the  neglect,  which  caused  the  death)." 
Rabha,  however,  in  the  name  of  Rabba  said  :  "  He  is  free,  and 
every  judge  who  decides  to  the  contrary  is  not  worthy  to  be  a 
judge,  as  not  only  according  to  him  who  holds  that  if  an  acci- 
dent follows  a  neglect  there  is  no  liability,  but  even  according  to 
him  who  holds  to  the  contrary,  would  admit  that  in  this  case 
he  is  free.  Why  so  ?  Because  there  was  a  natural  death,  and 
there  is  no  difference  to  the  Angel  of  Death  where  his  subject 
is  placed."  Rabha,  however,  admits  that  if  it  was  stolen  from 
the  rushes,  although  it  dies  a  natural  death  in  the  house  of  the 
thief,  the  bailee  is  nevertheless  responsible.  Why  so?  Because 
if  it  were  alive,  not  he,  but  the  thief,  would  possess  it  (conse- 
quently, before  he  dies  the  liability  came  simultaneously  with 
the  theft). 

Said  Aba}^  to  Rabha  :  "  According  to  your  theory,  that  there 
is  no  difference  to  Angel  of  Death  where  it  is  placed,  the  an- 
swer of  R.  Ami  to  R.  Aba  stated  above,  p.  86,  that  it  treats  of 
a  case  where  the  owner  has  permitted  the  hirer  to  borrow  it, 
etc.,  would  not  be  satisfactory,  as  also  in  their  case  a  natural  death 
occurred  and  he  could  claim  that  it  is  no  difference  to  Angel  of 
Death  where  it  was  placed."  Rejoined  Rabha :  "  According  to  you 
the  objection  was :  That  the  owner  could  claim,  *  I  do  not  want 
that  my  bailment  should  be  under  the  control  of  another,'  your 
objection  could  be  sustained ;  but  I  said  that  the  claim  of  the 
owner  was  that  the  first  bailee  only  is  trusted  by  him  with  an 
oath,  but  not  any  one  else  ;  hence  your  objection  cannot  be 
sustained." 


88  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Rami  bar  Hama  objected  from  the  following  Boraitha :  "  If 
he  brought  the  animal  to  a  steep  hill,  and  it  falls  and  dies,  it  is 
not  to  be  considered  an  accident,  and  he  is  liable."  Of  which  it 
is  to  be  inferred  that  if  a  natural  death  would  occur  while  yet  on 
the  steep  hill,  it  would  be  considered  an  accident.  Why  ?  Let 
him  say  that  the  mountain  air  or  the  labor  of  ascending  such  a 
high  altitude  has  killed  it  ?  The  Boraitha  treats  when  it  was 
brought  to  a  good  fat  pasture. 

"  Said  R.  Jose,"  etc. :  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel : 
"  The  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Jose."  Said  R. 
Samuel  b.  Jehudah  to  R.  Jehudah  :  "You  declared  to  us  in  the 
name  of  Samuel  that  Jose  differs  also  with  the  first  Mishna  (in 
case  of  double  payment) ;  does  the  Halakha  prevail  according  to 
him  against  the  first  Mishna  also  or  not "  ?  And  he  answered  : 
"  Yea,  so  it  is !  "  The  same  was  taught  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar. 
R.  Johanan,  however,  said :  "  R.  Jose  agrees  with  the  first 
Mishna,  in  case  he  has  already  paid."  Already  paid  !  Did  not 
R.  Hyya  b.  R'Aba  declare  in  his  name  (above,  p.  8i)  that  even 
if  he  said,  "I  am  ready  to  pay,"  sufifices?  Say  then,  R.  Jose 
agrees  with  the  first  Mishna  in  case  the  defendant  declared  al- 
ready, "  He  is  ready  to  pay." 

MISHNA  ///. :  If  one  said  to  two  persons,  I  have  robbed  one 
of  you  the  value  of  a  manna  (lOO  zuz)  but  I  do  not  know  which 
of  you,  or  the  father  of  one  of  you  deposited  with  me  a  manna, 
but  I  do  not  know  whose  father,  he  must  pay  a  manna  to  each  of 
them,  as  he  himself  admitted  his  debt. 

If  two  persons  have  deposited  with  one  person  one  hundred 
zuz  and  the  other  two  hundred,  and  each  of  them  claims  that  the 
two  hundred  are  his,  the  depository  must  pay  to  each  of  them 
one  hundred,  and  the  remaining  hundred  should  be  deposited 
until  Elijah  will  come.  Said  R.  Jose  :  If  so,  what  does  the  swin- 
dler lose?  Therefore,  the  whole  sum  should  be  deposited. 
The  same  is  the  case  with  two  utensils  :  one  of  them  was  worth 
hundred  zuz  and  the  other  thousand,  and  each  of  them  claimed 
that  the  better  one  was  his ;  then  one  of  them  must  get  the  hun- 
dred  one,  and  the  other  get  hundred  zuz  in  cash  from  the  value  of 
the  utensils,  and  the  remainder  is  deposited  until  Elijah  will  come. 
R.  Jose,  however,  objected  as  said  above,  and  maintained  that 
both  utensils  should  be  deposited  until  Elijah  will  come. 

GEMARA  :  We  see  then,  from  the  beginning  of  the  Mishna, 
that  doubtful  money  is  to  be  collected,  and  wc  do  not  say  leave 
the  money  with  its  present  possessor,  in  accordance  with  the  law 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  89 

of  occupancy  (Hasaka).  Is  there  not  a  contradiction  in  the  second 
part,  in  case  of  a  deposit,  where  the  doubtful  hundred  zuz  must 
be  deposited  ?  The  answer  was :  "  Do  you  want  to  contradict  a 
case  of  a  deposit  with  a  case  of  robbery  ?  "  A  robber  must  be 
punished,  but  not  a  depositor. 

There  is,  however,  contradiction  of  both  robbery  and  deposit. 
In  case  of  a  deposit  it  is  stated  in  the  first  part :  The  father  of 
one  of  you  has  deposited,  etc.  He  must  pay  a  manna  to  each  of 
them.  And  in  the  second  part,  in  case  of  the  deposits  of  one  and 
two  hundred,  it  states  that  the  doubtful  hundred  shall  remain, 
etc.  Said  Rabha :  "  The  first  part  is  to  be  compared  to  two 
men  who  have  deposited  separately,  one  in  the  absence  of 
the  other,  two  bundles,  where  it  is  the  duty  of  the  depository 
to  be  very  particular  with  the  bundles  and  to  mark  on  each  of 
them  to  whom  it  belongs  (so  he  ought  to  know  whose  father 
deposited  with  him).  And  the  second  part  treats  of  a  case 
where  both  persons  deposited  together  the  above  sum,  and  it  is 
to  be  compared  as  if  they  would  put  their  moneys  in  one  bundle, 
in  which  case  the  depository  may  say  :  You  yourself  were  not 
particular  in  separating  the  sum  to  whom  it  belongs  ;  then  shall 
I  be  more  particular  than  you  ?  The  contradiction  of  a  case  of 
robbery  to  the  other  case  of  the  same  is  as  follows :  There  is  a 
Mishna  (First  Gate,  p.  233):  "  If  one  robbed  one  of  five  persons 
and  does  not  know  the  one,  and  each  of  them  claims,  '  He  was 
robbed,'  the  robber  may  place  the  sum  among  them,  etc.,  and 
depart,  so  is  the  decree  of  R.  Tarphon." 

We  see,  then,  that  we  do  not  collect  money  in  case  of  doubt 
because  of  the  law  of  occupancy,  and  our  Mishna,  however,  states 
that  the  robber  must  pay  a  manna  to  each  of  them  (hence  doubt- 
ful money  is  to  be  collected  ?).  Are  you  then  certain  that  our 
Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Tarphon  ?  Yea  I  As  in  addi- 
tion to  the  cited  Mishna  it  is  said  that  R.  Tarphon  admitted  that 
if  one  said  to  two  persons,  "  I  have  robbed  one  of  you  of  a  manna 
and  I  do  not  know  who  is  the  one,"  he  must  pay  a  manna  to  each 
of  them.  (Hence  the  contradiction  is  clear.)  Nay  !  There  is  no 
contradiction.  R.  Tarphon  speaks  of  a  case  when  both  persons 
summoned  him ;  and  our  Mishna  treats  of  a  case  when  the  rob- 
ber repents  and  would  like  to  satisfy  the  heavenly  will,  and  it 
seems  that  our  Mishna  must  be  so  explained,  as  It  closes  with  the 
expression  that  he  himself  admitted  his  debt.  Infer  from  this 
that  so  it  is. 

The  master  says :  "  When  both  parties  summon  him."     But 


9©  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

what  does  the  defendant  claim  ?  "  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh 
said:  "He  kept  silence."  And  R.  Mathnah  said  in  the  name  of  the 
same :  "  He  denies  knowing  either  of  them.  According  to  him 
who  says  he  denies,  if  he  keeps  silent  it  would  be  counted  as  an 
admission,  and  according  to  him  who  says  he  kept  silent,  this 
silence  is  not  counted  as  an  admission,  as  he  may  declare,  '  I  kept 
silent  before  each  of  them  because  I  thought,  perhaps  he  is  the 
one  who  deposited  the  greater  sum.'  " 

The  master  said :  "  The  robber  may  place  the  sum  thus 
robbed  and  depart."  And  what  shall  be  then?  Shall  the  five 
take  the  sum  ?  Did  not  R.  Aba  b.  Zabda  declare  in  the  name 
of  Rabh  (above,  p.      ) :  "  Every  doubt,"  etc. 

Said  R.  Saphra  :  "  The  expression  *  departed  '  means  this : 
He  is  to  place  the  sum  before  the  court  in  presence  of  the  five 
men,  saying,  *  Who  of  you  is  robbed  shall  bring  evidence ' ;  and  as 
they  could  not  do  so,  he  may  depart  with  the  money,*  and  it 
shall  remain  with  him  until  evidence  is  brought."  Said  Abayi  to 
Rabha :  "  Did  not  R.  Aqiba  say  that  such  a  way  would  not 
keep  him  from  transgression,  but  he  must  pay  the  sum  robbed  to 
each  of  them  ?  Hence  we  see  that  on  account  of  doubt  money  is 
to  be  collected,  and  not  to  leave  the  money  with  the  possessor 
in  accordance  with  the  law  of  occupancy  (and  in  Tract  Baba 
Bassra,  155^,  we  heard  him  saying  that  the  law  of  occupancy  has 
the  preference)?  And  he  answered  :  There  was  an  uncertainty  of 
both  the  plaintiff  and  the  defendant,  and  here  it  is  only  an 
uncertainty  of  the  plaintiff,  but  the  defendant  is  certain  that  he 
has  robbed  one  of  them.  But  is  not  the  case  in  our  Mishna  also, 
an  uncertainty  of  both  the  plaintiff  and  the  defendant,  as  the 
latter  says  to  each  of  them,  "I  do  not  know  whether _;'^«  were 
robbed  "  ?  It  is  already  explained  above  that  our  Mishna  treats 
of  a  case  where  he  repents  and  would  satisfy  the  heavenly 
will.  Said  Rabbina  to  R.  Ashi :  "  How  could  Rabha  say,  if  there 
were  two  bundles  he  ought  to  be  particular  to  know  to  whom 
each  bundle  belongs.  Did  not  Rabha  or  R.  Papa  say  elsewhere : 
That  all  agree  in  case  where  two  men  have  deposited  with  a 
shepherd,  one  two  sheep,  and  one  one  sheep,  in  the  presence  of 
both,  and  thereafter  each  claims  the  two  sheep  are  his,  the  shep- 
herd must  place  three  sheep  before  them  and  depart?  And  he 
answered.  There  the  case  was  where  they  deposited  in  his  flock  in 
his  absence." 

*■  In  the  text  only  one  word,  Veyoneach,  was  Saphra's  answer,  and  the  explanation 
is  translated  by  us  from  Rashi. 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  91 

The  same  is  the  case  with  two  utensils,  etc.  Why  the  repeti- 
tion .?  Is  this  case  not  the  same  as  the  previous  ?  To  teach  us 
that  even  in  the  case  of  utensils,  which  may  involve  a  loss  by 
selling  the  better  one,  the  rabbis  are  nevertheless  of  the  same 
opinion. 

MISHNA  IV. :  If  one  deposits  fruit  at  his  neighbor,  he  must 
not  touch  it,  even  when  should  they  be  lost  (destroyed  by  mice 
or  by  decay).  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  maintains,  that 
he  must  sell  it  by  order  of  the  court,  as  this  is  similar  to  return- 
ing a  lost  thing. 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  reason  of  the  first  Tana  of  our 
Mishna?  Said  R.  Kahana:  "Usually  one  is  pleased  with  his 
own  goods,  be  it  a  ninth  part,  as  with  the  goods  of  a  stranger, 
be  it  multifold."  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itzhak,  however,  said  :  "  Be- 
cause it  is  to  be  feared,*  perhaps  the  owner  of  it  has  separated  it 
for  heave-offering  or  tithe."  Said  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  in  the  name 
of  R.  Johanan  :  "  The  Tanaim  of  the  Mishna  differ  only  when  the 
fruit  becomes  diminished  as  usual  (further 'on  is  explained  the 
measure  of  usual  loss  of  each  kind  of  grain  and  fruit) ;  but  if 
the  loss  would  be  more  than  usual,  all  agree  that  he  may  sell  it 
by  order  of  the  court."  An  objection  was  raised  from  the  fol- 
lowing :  If  one  has  deposited  fruit  at  his  neighbor's,  and  it  decays  ; 
or  wine,  and  it  becomes  sour ;  or  oil,  and  it  creates  a  stench  ;  or 
honey,  fermenting,  one  must  not  touch  it ;  such  is  the  decree  of 
R.  Meier.  The  sages,  however,  say  :  "  He  may  try  to  prevent 
the  loss  and  sell  it  by  order  of  the  court,  provided  he  does  not 
buy  it  for  himself.  Similarly,  holders  of  charity  funds,  when 
there  is  no  poor  to  whom  to  distribute,  may  change  the  money 
to  any  one,  but  not  to  themselves.  Officers  who  are  appointed 
to  distribute  food  to  the  poor,  if  there  is  none,  they  may  sell  it, 
provided  they  do  not  buy  it  for  themselves."  Now  the  Boraitha 
states :  "  Fruit,  and  became  rotten  "  ;  does  it  not  mean  even  more 
rotten  than  usual?  Nay,  it  means  as  usual.  It  states :  "  If  wine 
becomes  sour,"  etc.,  which  certainly  means  that  it  is  entirely 
spoiled  for  consumption  ?  With  beverages  it  is  different,  as  there 
is  no  remedy  (this  would  be  correct  with  wine  that  becomes  sour, 
and  then  has  yet  a  value  as  vinegar,  but  oil  and  honey)  when 
spoiled,  what  use  can  be  had  of  them  ?  Oil  to  smear  the  heels 
of  footwear,  and  honey  to  use  as  salve  for  the  camel  wounds. 
The  Boraitha  states :   "  According  to  the  sages  he  may  try  to 

*  It  means  to  state  that  this  law  was  an  old  one,  in  time  when  heave-offering 
and  tithes  were  observed. 


92  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

prevent  the  loss."  What  should  he  do?  Said  R.  Ashi:  "He 
can  save  the  pitchers  which  contained  the  spoiled  articles ;  for  if 
anything  remains  within,  the  pitchers  may  also  become  spoiled. 
What  is  the  point  of  their  difference?  According  to  one,  care 
should  be  taken  only  for  a  great  loss,  but  not  for  a  trivial  loss ; 
and  according  to  the  other,  care  must  be  taken  even  for  a  trivial 
loss. 

" R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  saidy*  etc.  It  was  taught,  R.  A'ba 
b.  Jacob  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said :  "  The  Halakha  prevails 
in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon."  And  Rabha  in  the  name  of  R. 
Na'haman  said :  "  The  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  the 
sages."  But  did  not  R.  Johanan  declare  conclusively  that  when 
R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  is  mentioned  in  the  Mishna  the  Halakha 
prevails  in  accordance  with  him — why  then  the  repetition  ? 
There  are  Amoraim  who  differ  concerning  R.  Johanan's  decision; 
according  to  some  of  them  the  decision  was  conclusive,  and 
according  to  others  the  decision  was  rendered  not  for  all  time 
{i.e.,  in  some  instance  the  Halakha  does  not  prevail  according  to 
Raban  Simeon). 

It  was  taught :  "  If  one  becomes  a  prisoner,  according  to 
Rabh  his  property  must  not  be  transferred  to  the  nearest  rela- 
tive ;  and  according  to  Samuel,  it  may."  If  there  was  a  rumor 
that  the  man  was  dead,  all  agree  it  may  be  done  ;  but  if  there  is 
no  rumor  about  his  death,  Rabh  maintains :  "  It  may  not,  be- 
cause the  relative  may  spoil  his  property";  and  Samuel  maintains 
it  may,  because  the  master  decided  that  when  the  owner  of  the 
property  returns,  the  man  who  kept  his  property  for  him  may  be 
rewarded,  as  usually  gardeners  take  a  share  for  tilling  the  ground 
{i.  e.,  that  from  each  property  he  receives  his  share),  he  would  not 
spoil  it.  An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following  Boraitha : 
R.  Elazar  said  :  "  It  is  written  [Ex.  xxii.  23]  :  *  My  wrath  shall 
wax  hot,  and  I  will  slay  you  with  the  sword,'  etc.  From  this  it 
is  understood  that  their  wives  remained  widows  and  their  chil- 
dren orphans.  For  what  purpose,  then,  does  the  verse  add,  '  and 
your  wives  shall  be  widows  and  your  children  fatherless  '  ?  To 
indicate  that  their  wives  would  wish  to  remarry,  but  would  not 
be  allowed,  and  their  children  would  beg  that  the  property  of 
their  father  should  be  transferred  to  them,  and  it  will  not  be 
granted  {i.e.,  they  will  be  prisoners,  hence  the  property  of  a 
prisoner  is  not  to  be  transferred  to  his  relatives)."  Said  Rabha : 
"  It  was  taught  that  it  may  be  transferred  to  them,  but  they  may 
not  sell  it.     Such  a  case  happened  in  Nahardea,  and  R.  Shesheth 


did  not  allow  the  transfer  of  the  property  to  his  relative  to  be 
made,  basing  his  decision  upon  the  just  quoted  Boraitha."  Said 
R.  Amram  to  him  :  "  Perhaps  the  Boraitha  is  taught  as  Rabha 
amended  it."  And  he  rejoined  :  "  Are  you  not  a  Pumbadithan, 
who  tries  to  pass  an  elephant  through  the  eye  of  a  needle? 
Does  not  the  Boraitha  make  the  wives  equal  to  their  children  ? 
As  the  wives  are  entirely  forbidden  to  marry,  so  are  the  children 
entirely  from  their  father's  property." 

Says  the  Gemara :  However,  in  the  case  in  question  the 
Tanaim  of  the  following  Boraitha  differ.  If  one  took  possession 
of  the  estate  of  a  prisoner,  he  must  not  be  compelled  to  give  it 
up  ;  furthermore,  if  he  was  informed  that  the  prisoner  was  about  to 
be  liberated,  and  he  hastened  to  use  the  products  of  the  estate, 
he  is  considered  diligent,  and  rewarded.  And  the  following  are 
considered  property  of  prisoners.  If  his  father,  brother,  or  one  of 
his  grantors  went  to  the  sea-countries,  and  there  was  a  rumor  that 
they  were  dead,  whoever  takes  possession  of  their  abandoned 
property,  he  must  be  compelled  to  give  it  up.  And  the  follow- 
ing is  considered  abandoned  property.  "  If  the  owners  went  to 
the  sea-country,  and  no  rumor  of  their  death  was  heard."  [R. 
Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  said  :  "  I  have  heard  that  the 
latter's  property  is  equalled  to  the  prisoner's.]  The  same  is  the 
case  with  him  who  takes  possession  of  forsaken  property.  And 
what  is  called  forsaken  property  ?  If  its  owners  are  somewhere 
in  the  neighborhood,  but  cannot  be  found.  Why,  then,  is  the 
former  called  abandoned  and  the  latter  forsaken  ?  Abandoned 
means,  he  was  compelled  to  leave  it ;  as  it  is  written  [Ex.  xxiii.  1 1]  : 
"  But  the  seventh  year  shalt  thou  let  it  rest  and  lie  still,"  *  which 
is  a  decree  of  the  Lord,  and  the  latter  means  tV»'^  ^  " 
saken  it  willingly,  as  '*■   '  »-• »••  ***  "**       * 

..  «  written  [Hos«,  x.  u]:  "The  mother 


W^»S 


oasned  In  piece,  upon  her  children.  "    The  Boraitha  adds  .t 

..tdt^edtL  all  Ise  »I>° -.-^^  P-f/^ll^rhir  dt 
their  compensation  must  be  appraised  as  if  they  were 

n::iet  us  see  in  which  case  this  ^:^:^^^::^ 
be  applicable  to  the  caseofpnsoners^^ _ 

and  th«  second,  J^etoosAi^,  which  mean,  spht,  and  thus  ^c  or  J^       ^^^  ^^^ 
of  the  verse.     It  is  translated  by  ^^er  as  m  ^e^«t  w^^^^^^^  ^^^  ^^^^^  ^^.^,  .^ 
unwillingly.     Rasbi.  however.  «Pl^''^^^^<^°^  .^"  ^^;;,  lf„d  the  inhabitants   ran 
literally  V  tumult,  that  for   ^-^  ^^f'Lll  cinders  U«  if  ^ 
away  and  left  ttt  land  desoUte  ;  and  the  Gwnara  considers 

i«f ly. 


94  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

he  is  considered  diligent ;  and  also  not  in  the  case  of  forsaken 
property,  as  it  is  stated  that  he  must  be  compelled  to  give  it  up  ; 
consequently  it  applies  only  to  the  case  of  abandoned  property. 
But  according  to  whom?  Shall  we  assume  that  it  is  in  accord- 
ance with  the  rabbis  ?  Did  they  not  declare  that  also  in  such  a 
case  the  possession  must  be  given  up ;  and  if  in  accordance  with 
R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  did  he  not  declare  that  he  heard  that 
this  case  must  be  decided  as  the  case  of  prisoners?  Yea !  As  in 
the  case  of  prisoners,  but  not  in  all  respects.  It  is  equal  only  in 
case  the  possessor  need  not  give  it  up,  but  not  in  case  that 
he  should  be  considered  diligent,  as  his  compensation  is  to  be 
appraised  as  that  of  a  gardener. 

But  why  is  this  case  different  from  that  in  the  Mishna(Kethu- 
both,  Chap.  VIIL,  Mishna  3),  which  states  that  all  he  has  done 
must  be  recognized  ?  Nay  !  It  is  similar  to  the  following  case  only, 
in  which  case  it  was  said  by  R.  Jacob  in  the  name  of  R.  Hisda,  that 
if  one  incurred  expense  for  the  estate  of  his  wife  who  is  not  yet 
of  age,  it  is  to  be  considered  as  if  he  incurred  the  expense  for  the 
estate  of  a  stranger,  which  does  not  belong  to  him  {i.e.,  for  which 
he  may  never  be  reimbursed).  Why  so  ?  The  rabbis  enacted 
in  such  a  case  a  rule  to  prevent  the  possessor  from  spoiling  the 
estate,  and  the  same  is  made  here  in  our  case  for  the  same  purpose. 

But  did  not  the  Boraitha  state  "  all  of  them,  their  compensa- 
tions must  be  appraised,"  etc.  ?  What  does  the  expression  mean  ? 
"  All  of  them  "  ?  To  add  to  what  R.  Na'hman  said  in  the  name 
of  Samuel,  that  if  one  became  a  prisoner,  his  estate  may  be  trans- 
ferred to  his  relatives,  and  if  he  left  his  estate  willingly,  this  is 
not  to  be  done.  R.  Na'hman,  however,  declares  his  own  opinion 
to  be  that  if  he  was  compelled  to  run  away,  he  should  be  con- 
sidered as  a  prisoner.  Because  of  what  does  he  run  away  ?  If 
for  the  reason  that  he  has  not  paid  his  duty,  is  it  not  the  same  as 
if  he  abandoned  his  estate  willingly ;  therefore,  it  must  be  ex- 
plained that  R.  Na'hman  means  that  he  ran  away  because  of 
some  crime.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  "  A  pris 
oner  who  left  ripe  stalks  for  cutting,  or  grapes,  dates,  or  olives  for 
pressing,  the  court  should  appoint  a  guardian  who  shall  do  al! 
work  necessary,  and  then  transfer  it  to  his  relative.  But  why 
should  the  garden  not  remain  until  his  return?  For  adults,  full- 
grown  men,  no  guardians  are  appointed." 

R.  Huna  said  :  "  The  estate  of  a  prisoner  must  not  be  trans- 
ferred to  a  minor  relative,  and  not  the  estate  of  a  minor  to  any 
relative,  and  also  not  to  a  relative  of  his  relative  {e.g.,  a  minor 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  95 

who  has  a  brother  of  his  father,  and  this  brother  has  a  brother  of 
his  mother,  who  is  a  perfect  stranger  to  the  minor).  It  must  not 
be  transferred  to  a  minor  relative,  because  he  may  damage  the 
estate  ;  and  also  not  to  a  relative,  and  a  relative  of  relatives,  because 
in  the  course  of  time  they  may  possess  it  without  any  protest ; 
they  would  keep  it  for  themselves  permanently,  basing  their  pos- 
session upon  the  law  of  Occupancy." 

Said  Rabha :  "  It  is  to  be  inferred  from  R.  Huna's  statement 
above,  that  possession  is  not  taken  of  the  estate  of  a  minor,  no 
matter  whether  he  is  an  uncle  on  his  father's  or  mother's  side ;  no 
matter  whether  it  was  land  or  houses,  and  also  no  matter  whether 
the  division  among  the  brothers  took  place  or  not." 

There  was  an  old  woman  who  had  three  daughters.  Together 
with  one  of  them  she  was  taken  to  prison,  and  of  the  remaining 
two,  one  died  and  left  a  child.  Said  Abayi :  "  What  shall  we  do? 
Should  we  transfer  the  estate  to  the  remaining  living  daughter, 
who  is  here,  then  perhaps  the  old  woman  will  die,  and  the  minor 
will  become  an  heir ;  and  there  is  a  rule  that  the  estate  of  a 
minor  must  not  be  transferred  to  a  relative  in  trust.  Should  wc 
transfer  the  estate  to  the  child,  then  perhaps  the  old  woman  will 
not  die ;  and  there  is  a  rule  that  no  minor  can  be  appointed  as 
guardian  to  the  estate  of  a  prisoner.  Therefore,  the  half  of  the  es- 
tate should  be  given  to  the  sister,  who  is  here  ;  and  a  guardian  shall 
be  appointed  for  the  other  half  for  the  sake  of  the  child."  Said 
Rabha :  "  When  there  is  no  other  way  but  the  appointment  of  a 
guardian  for  the  half,  then  he  shall  be  appointed  rather  for  the 
whole  estate."  Finally,  it  was  heard  that  the  old  woman  was 
dead.  Said  Abayi :  "  Now,  one-third  of  the  estate  should  be 
given  to  the  sister,  and  one-third  transferred  to  the  child,  and  the 
remaining  third  should  be  divided  one-half  to  the  sister,  for  safe- 
keeping, and  for  tb3  other  half  a  guardian  shall  be  appointed  for 
the  sake  of  the  child."  (Rashi  explains  thus:  One-third  certainly 
belongs  to  her,  as  she  is  an  heir ;  the  same  is  the  case  with  the 
other  third  c.C ^the  minor ;  the  remaining  third,  however,  belongs 
to  the  sister  who  -is  a  prisoner,  whose  existence  is  doubtful.  Now, 
the  half  of  her  inheritance  must  surely  be  transferred  in  trust  to 
her  sister,  as  the  law  allows  a  relative  to  be  a  guardian ;  and,  at 
any  rate,  her  sister  may  take  possession  of  it,  if  she  is  dead,  as  she 
is  the  heir ;  and  if  she  is  still  alive,  she  is  to  be  considered  a 
guardian.  The  other  half,  however,  if  she  is  dead,  the  minor  is 
an  heir;  but  if  she  is  alive,  she  cannot  be  a  guardian,  because 
of  age ;    and,  therefore,  a  guardian  must  be   appointed.)     Said 


,5  THE  BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Lbha :  ••  If  a  guardian,  then  he  must  be  appointed  for  the  whole 

'^'llother  of  Mari  b.  ^f^-^^'^^^Tt^^rZ 
and  demanded  a  share  of  J^^^^^l^'^^^l  ^^,^^,  r.  Hisda.  and 
said:  I  do  not  know  you    Jh      ase  ^  ^,..  ..^^^ 

he  said:  Man  '=/^"J  /'tut  they  recognized  not  him." 
Joseph  recognized  l>-^'°*/fj^;^  had  departed  when  he  was 
And  the  reason  was,  because  J  osepn  n  F     therefore  it  is  for 

not  yet  bearded,  and  when  they  ^^J^^'^'^ ^  answered : 
you  to  bring  evidence  that  you  a^e  h  s  b-*  ^  ^^^^^^^^  ^^^ ,,  , 

'  '^^7;r:Md  they   re  afraid  of  being  injured  by  him).     Said 

rnldaTo  Mari :"  Then  you  must  go  and  bring  witnesses  tha 

t  ,r:„t;:ur  brother.-  .^^ejoined  Man  .<  Is^^^^^^^  ^^^^^  ^ 

„otarulethatti,epiamU«^^ 

answered:  "So  is  my  ^/"^  °"     J      ^^  „3^  „f  „y  bringing  wtt- 

''"'■"  ^  U  cX  nlv  tesS  o  my  sake,  as  they  will  be  afraid 
nesses,  they  wUcertanly  test,  y  ^  „j  ^^  „„t  3„3pect 

to  testify  agamst  me.  1^')°'"'''*^^;, .  _  f„,  ,ear  of  you ;  what 
^'^-'•^-'rn'oTt  a;;rrSrtheTo!:t,but  th^yare  not 
they  may  do  is,  not  t°/^PPf  ^  "  ^  ^^^^^(    falsely."     Finally, 

suspected  that  they  *°"  d  -me  and  t  y  ^^_^  J^  ^^^  ^^^ 
witnesses  appeared     ndt,fidtha^  a  share  from  the  vineyards 

brother  ^'^™^<^,^"='"  f  °"Mari  and  R.  Hisda  said  that  his  claim 
and  gardens  cultivated  by  Mar.,  ana  k 

was  right,  as  there  was  a  M.shn.^^^^^^^^^ 

which  stated  so.     f'^^f^f^^'^'^^^Xre  were  brothers  of  age  and 

Sn^^tTtrrSciiuvt^^^^^^^^^^^^ 
:tts;'r:i:"'^="^^^^^^^^^ 

omin  l:^  of  their  labor  for  the  sake  o  the  m.n^- 
did  Mari  know  that  a  brother  existed,     ^l 

labor  for  him?"     The  case  was  not  •  .  ,  .  "y';elinquish  Ws 

before  R.  Ami,  and  he  sa.d  ■  .^^^^^^^^^n.  a'd  came 

greater    mportance  _  __  ^^^  .^  ^e."^^^^^^^  .^  ^  ^^3,  „ 

the  estate  -  _^  _^_^^^j^-  ^^  ^  ^^,^j,^^,„h„  j^ok  possession  o 

*""  .  -.  a  prisoner,  and  improved  it.his  compensat.on  must 

-^  appraised  as  a  gardener ;  and  in  this  case,  as  R.  Hisda  °''-'      J 
he  should  take  an  equal  share  of  the  imp.ovement  made  by 

A    fli^    r3.sC  W3Li 

without  any  compensation  even  as  a  gardener,  ana  inc 
returned  to  R.  Hisda,  and  he  said :  How  can  it  be  compared 
The  case  cited  by  R.  Ami  was,  that  the  court  appointed  the  re  a 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  97 

tive  to  take  care  of  the  estate,  and  certainly  a  compensation  must 
be  given  him ;  but  here,  did  Mari  do  so  with  the  permission  of  the 
court  ?  and,  moreover,  the  court  could  not  appoint  him  as  a  guard- 
ian, because  his  brother  was  a  minor  then,  and,  as  said  above,  no 
relative  can  be  appointed  guardian  of  the  estate  of  a  minor."  The 
case  was  referred  again  to  R.  Ami,  and  he  said  :  "  I  was  not  aware 
that  his  brother  at  that  time  was  a  minor." 

MISHNA  v.:  If  one  deposits  fruit,  the  depository  may  ac- 
count to  him  losses  as  follow  :  To  wheat  and  rice,  nine  half  cads 
to  one  coor  ;  to  barley  and  millet,  nine  whole  cabs ;  to  spelt  and 
flax,  three  saaJts  to  one  coor  ;  however,  all  must  be  appraised  ac- 
cording to  the  measures  and  circumstances  of  the  time.  Said  R. 
Johanan  b.  Nuri :  What  do  the  mice  care  ?  they  consume  all  the 
same,  whether  more  or  less ;  therefore  he  must  account  the  loss 
to  him  for  one  coor  only.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  says  :  If  there 
was  a  large  quantity,  he  may  account  for  no  loss  at  all,  because  it 
increases. 

GEMARA  :  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  with  rice  there  is  more  loss  ? 
Said  R.  bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  "  The  Mishna 
treats  of  shelled  rice." 

To  spelt  and  flax,  etc.  Said  R.  Johanan  in  the  name  of  R. 
Hyya :  "  The  Mishna  treats  of  flax  which  is  yet  in  the  stalk,  and 
so  we  have  also  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha :  To  spelt  and 
to  flax  in  the  stalk,  and  to  rice  not  shelled,  three  saahs  to  one  coor." 

All  must  be  appraised,  etc.  In  a  Boraitha  it  was  taught  so 
accordingly  to  each  coor  and  circumstance  of  the  season. 

R.  Johanan,  etc.  There  is  a  Boraitha  which  adds  as  follows  : 
It  was  said  to  R.  Johanan,  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  much  of  it  under- 
goes a  loss,  and  much  of  it  is  scattered  ?  " 

Another  Boraitha,  concerning  our  Mishna,  states :  All  this  is 
said  in  case  he  has  mixed  it  with  his  own,  but  if  he  has  assigned 
a  corner  for  him  to  put  his  grain,  then  he  may  say :  "  Yours  is 
before  you,  take  it  as  it  is." 

But  why  should  it  not  be  the  same,  even  if  he  has  mixed  it 
with  his  own  ?  He  may  take  his  own,  and  for  the  remainder  he 
shall  say :  Yours  is  before  you  ?  The  case  was,  when  he  used  this 
grain.  But  even  then  let  him  take  the  remainder  of  his  own? 
The  case  was  when  he  did  not  know  how  much  he  had  used  of  it. 

R.  Jehudah  said,  etc.  What  is  to  be  considered  a  large  quan- 
tity ?  Said  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan : 
Ten  coors ;  and  so  we  also  learned  in  a  Boraitha. 

A  disciple  taught  before  R.  Na'hman  that  all  this  was  said  in 
n 


98  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

case  the  depositor  measured  the  grain  of  his  barn,  and  the  de- 
pository returned  the  grain  also  from  his  barn  ;  but  if  he  returned 
the  grain  from  his  house  he  needs  not  to  account  to  him  any  loss 
at  all,  because  it  usually  increases.  Said  R.  Na'hman  to  him : 
"  Does  the  Mishna  treat  of  fools  who  give  a  large  measure  and  take 
in  return  a  small  one?  Perhaps  your  Boraitha  teaches  as  follows : 
All  this  is  said  when  the  depositor  has  given  it  to  him  at  harvest 
time,  and  it  was  returned  to  him  at  the  same  season  ;  but  if  he 
deposited  it  in  the  harvest,  and  it  was  returned  to  him  in  the  rain 
season,  he  needs  not  to  account  any  loss,  as  it  increases."  Said 
R.  Papa  to  Abayi :  "  If  it  is  so,  why  should  not  the  pitcher  full 
of  grain  crack  in  the  rain  season?  It  happened  that  such  a 
pitcher  cracked.  According  to  others,  the  grain  which  was  in 
a  closed  pitcher  does  not  increase,  for  lack  of  space." 

MISHNA  VI. :  The  loss  of  wine  counts  one-sixth — R.  Jehu- 
dah,  however,  says  one-fifth — of  oil,  three  lugs  of  each  hundred, 
namely,  one  and  a  half  for  yeast,  and  one  and  a  half  for  the 
absorption  of  the  vessel,''^  If,  however,  the  oil  was  already  puri- 
fied, there  is  no  loss  for  yeast,  and  if  the  vessels  were  old  ones, 
then  nothing  is  to  be  accounted  for  the  vessels.  R.  Jehudah, 
however,  says  that  even  if  one  sells  purified  oil  the  buyer  bears 
the  loss  of  one  and  a  half  to  each  hundred  lugs,  for  waste  f  yearly. 

GEMARA :  And  they  do  not  differ.  The  one  of  them  treats 
of  waxed  barrels,  as  the  custom  was  in  his  place,  which  do  not 
absorb  much  ;  and  the  other  treats  when  they  were  smeared  with 
pitch,  as  the  custom  was  in  his  place,  and  absorbed  more.  Some 
say  that  in  some  places  barrels  were  made  of  such  kind  of  clay 
that  did  not  absorb  much.  In  the  place  where  R.  Jehudah  used 
to  live,  there  was  usually  put  forty-eight  pitchers  into  one  barrel, 
and  they  were  sold  for  six  zuz.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  when  he 
became  a  storekeeper,  sold  every  six  pitchers  for  one  zuz,  so  that 
for  thirty-six  pitchers  he  obtained  six  zuz,  and  twelve  remained 
for  him  ;  counting  the  loss  of  eight  pitchers  for  absorption  by  the 
vessels,  he  nevertheless  had  for  his  profit  four  pitchers.  But  did 
not  Samuel  say  that  one  must  manage  that  his  profit  should  not 
exceed  a  sixth  of  the  amount  ?  Hence  a  sixth  is  allowed  ?  Why, 
then,  did  not  R.  Jehudah  manage  to  have  a  sixth  profit?  Be- 
cause of  the  barrels  and  the  yeast,  which,  aside  from  the  four 

*  Rashi  explained  above  that  all  vessels  at  that  time  were  of  clay,  and  therefore 
a  new  one  absorbed. 

f  The  text  uses  the  word  "  schmarim,"  which  means  literally  yeast.  Here, 
however,  it  refers  to  waste  material. 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  99 

lugs,  remained  for  him.  If  so,  then  R.  Jehudah  profited  by  more 
than  a  sixth?  He  took  this  for  his  trouble,  and  for  the  commis- 
sion which  he  had  to  give  to  the  barrel  sellers. 

" If  it  was  purified  oil"  etc.  But  even  if  there  were  old 
ones,  it  is  impossible  that  they  should  not  absorb  some  ?  Said  R. 
Na'hman  :  The  case  was  when  they  were  waxed.  Abayi,  how- 
ever, says,  even  when  they  were  not  waxed,  if  they  were  old 
ones  they  had  already  absorbed  all  they  could,  and  nothing  more 
from  the  new  stuff. 

R.  Jehudah  says,  etc.  Said  Abayi :  "  In  accordance  with  R. 
Jehudah's  theory,  one  may  mix  yeast  with  the  oil  he  is  selling; 
and  that  is  the  reason  that  the  buyer  must  accept  a  lug  and  a 
half  for  yeast,  as  the  seller  may  say.  If  I  would  like  to  mix  yeast 
with  it  you  would  have  to  accept ;  do  the  same  even  when  I  give 
it  to  you  pure.  But  why  should  not  the  buyer  say.  If  you  would 
put  yeast  in  it,  I  would  sell  it  with  the  oil ;  but  now,  even  if  you 
would  furnish  me  with  the  yeast  separately,  what  should  I  do 
with  it,  as  I  cannot  sell  it  separately  ?  The  Mishna  treats  of  a 
private  person  who  prefers  clear  oil. 

And,  according  to  the  theory  of  the  rabbis,  one  must  not 
mix  yeast  with  oil,  and  therefore  one  may  not  accept  any  loss  for 
yeast,  as  the  buyer  may  say.  As  it  is  not  allowable  for  you  to 
mix  the.  yeast  with  the  oil,  I  need  not  accept  any  loss  for  yeast. 
Said  R.  Papa  to  Abayi :  It  seems  to  be  the  contrary.  According 
to  the  sages,  he  is  allowed  to  mix  yeast,  and  therefore  the  buyer 
need  not  accept  any  loss  for  it,  as  he  may  say.  Because  you  have 
not  mixed  it,  you  have  relinquished  it  for  my  sake.  And,  in  ac- 
cordance to  R.  Jehudah's  theory,  the  mixing  is  not  allowed,  and 
therefore  he  must  accept  the  loss  of  a  lug  and  a  half,  and  the 
seller  may  say.  To  mix  any  yeast  with  the  oil  by  one  is  not  per- 
mitted, and  if  you  were  not  to  accept  any  loss,  where  is  my 
profit  ?  Shall  I  be  a  business  man  for  buying  and  selling  without 
deriving  any  profit  from  it  ?  There  is  a  Boraitha  which  states 
that  a  buyer  or  a  depository,  concerning  the  offscouring,  is  equal 
in  law.  How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  Shall  we  assume  as  the 
buyer  does  not  accept  the  offscouring,  the  same  is  the  case  with 
the  depositor  ?  Why  ?  The  depository  may  say  :  What  have  I 
to  do  with  your  offscourings?  Therefore  it  must  be  explained  in 
the  reverse.  As  the  depositor  must  accept  the  offscouring,  the 
same  is  the  case  with  the  buyer.  Is  that  so?  Have  we  not 
learned  in  a  Boraitha,  R.  Johanan  said  that  the  loss  of  unpuri- 
fied  oil  is  to  be  accounted  to  the  seller  only,  but  not  to  the 


loo  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

buyer,  because  he  accepts  a  lug  and  a  half  for  yeast,  without  off- 
scouring  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty.  It  treats  of  a  case  when 
the  money  for  the  oil  was  paid  in  Tishri,  and  he  delivered  it  in 
Nissan,  with  the  same  measure  as  at  the  time  it  was  bought 
(then  the  buyer  must  accept  the  loss,  as  the  oil  in  Nissan  is 
usually  already  purified),  and  R.  Johanan  speaks  of  a  case  when 
it  was  paid  and  delivered  in  Nissan  with  the  usual  measure  of 
the  season. 

MISHNA  VII. :  If  a  barrel  is  deposited  for  safe-keeping  with 
some  one  without  the  owner  assigning  a  separate  place  for  it, 
if  the  depository  has  handled  it  and  it  broke  while  yet  under  his 
hand,  if  his  act  was  for  his  own  advantage  he  is  responsible.  If 
for  the  sake  of  the  article,  he  is  not.  If,  however,  it  broke  after 
it  was  replaced,  there  is  no  responsibility  at  any  rate.  If  a  sep- 
arate place  was  assigned  by  the  owner,  and  the  depository  handled 
it  and  it  broke,  he  is  responsible  for  it  at  any  rate,  provided  he 
has  replaced  it  for  the  sake  of  the  article. 

GEMARA :  This  Mishna,  which  states  that  there  is  no 
responsibility  if  it  broke  after  he  replaced  it,  even  if  it  was  for 
his  own  advantage,  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Ismael,  who  said 
elsewhere  that  no  knowledge  of  the  owner  is  necessary  for  the 
return  of  a  lost  article ;  but  if  so,  why  then  only  when  a  separate 
place  was  not  assigned  to  it  ?  The  same  should  be  the  case  even 
when  it  was  assigned  ?  Yea !  but  it  is  to  be  explained  thus : 
Not  only  when  a  place  was  assigned  by  the  depositor,  and  the 
depository  put  it  into  the  same,  he  is  free ;  but  even  if  no  place 
was  assigned,  if  only  the  depository  returned  it  to  the  place 
where  it  was  before,  he  is  also  free  ;  but  if  so,  how  is  to  be  under- 
stood the  latter  part  of  our  Mishna  in  case  a  place  was  assigned 
by  the  depositor?  This  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Aqiba,  who 
said  that  the  knowledge  of  the  owner  is  needed.  And  the  same 
interpretation  of  the  first  part  is  to  be  used  here  also ;  that  is,  not 
only  if  a  place  was  not  assigned,  but  even  if  it  were  assigned,  he 
is  nevertheless  responsible.  But  is  it  right  that  the  first  part 
should  be  in  accordance  with  R.  Ismael  and  the  latter  part  with 
R.  Aqiba?  Yea!  as  R.  Johanan  said:  "  He  who  will  interpret 
to  me  our  Mishna  in  accordance  with  one  of  the  two  above 
Tanaim,  I  will  carry  his  clothes  for  him  to  the  bath-house."  R. 
Jacob  b.  Abba,  however,  explained  it  before  Rabh  that  he  took 
the  same  with  the  intention  of  robbery,  and  R.  Nathan  b.  Abba, 
before  the  same,  that  he  took  it  with  the  intention  of  using  a  part 
of  it,  (and  although  he  has  not  used  it  as  yet)  it  is  nevertheless 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE    GATE).  loi 

considered  already  his  property  and  he  is  responsible  for  it  *     In 
which  point  do  Jacob  and  Nathan  differ?   In  the  law  of  "stretch- 
ing his  hand  "  (Ex.  xxii.  lo) :  If  using  a  part  of  it  is  needed,  or  the 
intention  alone  makes  him  liable,  although  he  has  not  touched  it 
as  yet.     According  to  Jacob  he  Is  not  liable  unless  he  has  used 
some,  and  according  to  Nathan  the  intention  only  suffices.     R. 
Snesheth  opposed  (both  statements).     "  Does  then  the  Mishna 
state  he  took  it  ?     It  states  he  handled  it  only."     Therefore  he 
explained  it  that  the  handling  was  for  the  purpose  of  reaching 
pigeons,  which  were  on  a  higher  place,  by  standing  upon  the  bar- 
rel, and  he  holds  that  borrowing  an  article  without  permission  of 
the  owner  is  considered  robbery ;  hence  he  acquired  title  to  it. 
And  by  such   an   interpretation   the  whole  Mishna  can  be  ex- 
plained in  accordance  with  R.  Ismael,  and  the  latter  part,  in  case 
the  place  was  assigned  by  the  depositor,  treats  when  the  deposi- 
tory has  replaced  it  not  in  its  assigned  place.     R.  Johanan,  how- 
ever, maintains  that,  from  the  expression  of  the  Mishna,  replaced 
is  to  be  understood  that  he  put  it  at  the  very  same  place  (and 
therefore  his  above  statement).    It  was  taught :  "  Rabh  and  Levi, 
one  of  them  holds  that  stretching  his  hands  means  that  he  used 
a  part  of  it  already,  and  the  other  one  holds  that  the  intention 
only  suffices,  and  from  the  explanation  of  Rabh  in  a  Boraitha, 
further  on,  it  may  be  understood  that  Rabh  is  the  one  who  holds 
that  the  intention  only  suffices.     The  Boraitha  states  as  follows: 
"'  A  shepherd,  who  left  his  flock,  and  in  the  meantime  a  wolf  or  a 
lion  damaged  it,  he  is  free  (provided  it  was  not  a  neglect  of  duty). 
If,  however,  he  placed  his  cane  or  his  bag  upon  the  animal,  which 
was  damaged  by  the  above  wild  beast  he  is  responsible ;  and  in 
the  discussion,  why  such  a  law  ?     It  was  explained  in  the  name 
of  Rabh  that  he  struck  it  with  his  cane  and  it  ran  away."     Now, 
did  he  take  anything  away  from  the  animal?     Hence  it  is  to  be 
inferred  that  he  holds  that  the  liability  of  stretching  his  hands 
needs  not  any  using  or  diminution  of  the  article.     But  perhaps 
Rabh   means   that   he   struck  it  so  hard  with   his  cane  that  it 
becomes  lean  (hence  it  is  considered  a  diminution),  and  it  seems 
so  from  the  expression,  he  struck  it  with  his  cane ;  hence  Rabh 
holds  that  to  the  above  liability  using  is  needed,  and  Levi  is  the 
one  who   holds  it   needs   not.     Said   R.  Johanan  in  the  name 

*  This  complicated  paragraph  is  explained  by  Rashi  at  length,  but  notwith- 
standing his  interpretation  it  remains  complicated  »nd  seems  to  us  of  no  importance. 
We,  therefore,  have  translated  almost  literally  without  any  explanation,  as  every 
student  should  be  able  to  interpret  it  according  to  his  pwi}  i}nder§tandi»g.  , 


I02  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

of  R.  Jose  b.  Nehorai:  Peculiar  is  the  stretching  of  hands,  which 
reads  in  regard  to  a  bailee  for  hire  in  connection  from  the  same 
expression,  which  reads  in  regard  to  a  gratuitous  bailee.  But 
I  say  that  it  is  not  peculiar.  (Says  the  Gamara  :)  According 
to  R.  Jose,  What  is  the  peculiarity?  He  maintains  this  ex- 
pression should  not  be  written  in  the  case  of  a  bailee  for 
hire,  and  it  should  be  deduced  from  the  case  of  a  gratuitous 
bailee  thus :  A  gratuitous  bailee,  who  is  not  responsible  for  theft 
and  loss,  is  responsible  for  stretching  of  hands.  A  bailee  for 
hire,  who  is  responsible  for  the  former  also,  so  much  the  more 
should  he  be  responsible  for  the  latter  act.  Why  then  is  it 
written  separately?  The  peculiarity  is  that  he  is  responsible, 
even  for  the  intention.  And  R.  Johanan,  who  said :  I  say  it  is 
not  peculiar,  bases  his  theory  on  the  ground  that  the  above 
a  fortiori  conclusion  is  to  be  controverted  thus :  A  gratuitous 
bailee  is  in  some  respects  more  rigorously  held  in  a  case  where 
he  claims  stolen,  and  must  pay  the  double  amount  if  thereafter 
it  was  found  that  it  was  not  so,  which  is  not  the  case  with  the 
bailee  for^hire.  He,  however,  who  does  not  use  the  objection, 
maintains  that  the  principal  amount  without  an  oath  (which  the 
law  prescribes  to  a  bailee  for  hire)  is  more  rigorously  held  than 
the  double  amount  with  an  oath. 

Rabha  says :  "  If  the  expression  of  stretching  hands  would  not 
be  written  in  the  both  above-mentioned  cases,  it  could  be  deduced 
from  the  case  of  a  borrower.  A  borrower  who  has  stretched  his 
hands  on  the  article  with  the  permission  of  its  owner  is,  never- 
theless, responsible,  even  for  an  accident ;  both  the  above-men- 
tioned cases,  which  treat  of  those  who  have  stretched  their  hands 
without  the  permission  of  the  owner,  so  much  the  more  should 
they  be  responsible.  Why,  then,  is  it  written,  one  of  them,  to 
teach  that  the  intention  of  stretching  hands  without  using 
suflfices ;  and  the  other  one,  that  one  shall  not  say  that  the  rule : 
it  is  suflficient  for  a  deduction,  to  apply  the  law  of  the  case  from 
which  it  is  deduced,  in  the  very  same  manner,  but  not  more  rig- 
orously ?  And  as  a  borrower  is  not  responsible  when  it  happened 
in  the  presence  of  the  owner,  so  also  should  be  with  both  men- 
tioned bailees,  that  if  they  have  done  so  in  the  presence  of  the 
owner,  they  should  be  free  (therefore  the  repetition,  to  teach  that 
in  this  case  it  is  not  so). 

MISHNA  VIII. :  If  one  has  deposited  money  for  safe-keeping, 
and  the  depository  tied  it  and  carried  it  on  his  shoulder,  or  he 
gave  it  to  his  son  or  daughter,  who  were  not  as  yet  of  age,  or  he 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  103 

did  not  lock  it  safely,  he  is  responsible  for  carelessness.  If, 
however,  he  was  careful  with  it,  as  it  is  required  of  a  bailee  (and 
nevertheless  an  accident  happened),  he  is  free. 

GEMARA  :  It  is  correct  in  all  cases  mentioned  in  the  Mishna, 
that  he  is  responsible  for  carelessness,  but  in  the  case  that  he  tied 
it  and  carried  it  on  his  shoulder,  why  is  this  considered  careless? 
What  better  could  he  do?  Said  Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  Itshak  : 
It  is  written  [Deut.  xiv.  25],  "  and  bind  up  the  money  in  thy 
hand,"  which  means,  although  it  is  "  bound  up,"  it  shall  neverthe- 
less be  in  his  hands.  R.  Itshak  said  again  :  That  the  above  cited 
verse  intimates  that  one  shall  manage  so  that  his  money  shall  al- 
ways be  in  his  hands.  And  he  said  again  :  It  is  advisable  for  one 
that  he  shall  divide  his  money  in  three  parts,  one  of  which  he 
shall  invest  in  real  estate,  one  of  which  in  business,  and  the  third 
part  to  remain  always  in  his  hands  (as  it  may  happen  that  he  will 
need  cash  for  a  profitable  transaction).  The  same  said  again  : 
Usually  blessing  does  not  occur  but  in  things  which  are  not 
before  the  eyes,  as  it  is  written  [Deut.  xxviii.  8] :  "  The  Lord 
will  command  upon  thee  the  blessing  in  thy  storehouses  "  (which 
are  not  continually  before  the  eye).  Similar  to  this,  it  was  taught 
by  the  disciples  of  R.  Ismael,  The  rabbis  taught :  "  He  who  is 
going  to  measure  the  grain  in  his  barn,  he  may  say.  It  shall  be 
thy  will,  O  Lord  our  God,  Thou  shalt  send  blessing  to  the  labor 
of  our  hands.  When  he  begins  to  measure,  he  may  say  :  Blessed 
may  be  He  Who  sendeth  blessings  upon  this  heap.  If,'  however, 
he  prayed  after  measuring,  his  praying  was  in  vain,  because 
blessing  does  not  occur  on  things  whigh  are  weighed,  measured, 
or  counted,  but  on  things  which  are  not  before  the  eyes,  as  it  is 
written  (as  the  above  cited  verse)." 

Samuel  said  :  "  Nothing  is  considered  safety  with  money,  unless 
it  is  hidden  in  the  ground."  Said  Rabha  :  "  Samuel  admits  that 
if  it  was  in  the  twilight  of  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  that  the  rabbis 
would  not  trouble  him  to  do  so.  If,  however,  after  the  Sabbath 
departed,  and  he  had  time  to  hide  it,  and  he  did  not  do  so  (and 
in  the  meantime  something  occurred),  he  is  responsible,  unless  he 
was  a  young  scholar  who  thought,  probably,  I  will  need  money 
for  the  benediction  of  the  Habhdala.  It  happened  that  one  de- 
posited money  with  his  neighbor,  who  hid  it  in  a  hut  made  of 
branches,  and  it  was  stolen.  When  the  case  came  before  R. 
Joseph,  he  said  :  "Although  concerning  fire,  it  is  a  wilful  careless- 
ness ;  concerning  thieves,  it  is  considered  safe ;  and  there  is  a 
rule  that  if,  finally,  it  was  an  accident,  although  it  was  started  in 


I04  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

neglect,  there  is  no  responsibility.     The   Halakha,  however,  pre- 
vails, that  in  such  a  case  there  is  responsibility." 

It  happened  that  one  deposited  money  with  his  neighbor,  and 
when  he  demanded  the  money,  the  depository  said  :  I  do  not 
know  where  I  put  it ;  and  Rabha  made  him  pay,  declaring  that 
such  an  answer  is  considered  wilfulness.  It  happened  also  that 
one  deposited  money  with  his  neighbor,  and  he  gave  it  to  his 
mother  for  safe-keeping.  She  put  it  in  a  xocpra\o^  (a  kind  of  box), 
and  it  was  stolen.  When  the  case  came  before  Rabha,  he  was 
considering  how  to  decide :  Should  we  make  him  pay,  he  may 
say,  he  who  gives  an  article  for  safe-keeping  does  so  with  the 
condition  that  the  depository  may  save  it  by  means  of  his  family. 
Shall  we  make  his  mother  pay,  she  may  say,  my  son  did  not 
inform  me  that  the  money  was  not  his.  If  I  were  aware  of  it,  I 
would  have  buried  it ;  and  shall  we  make  him  pay  because  he 
did  not  tell  his  mother  ?  He  may  say,  on  the  contrary,  I  have  done 
so,  because  I  thought  if  she  would  think  it  is  my  money,  she  would 
take  more  care  of  it ;  therefore,  he  decided  that  he  shall  swear 
that  he  gave  it  to  his  mother ;  and  she  shall  swear  that  she  put  it 
in  the  above-named  box,  and  it  was  stolen,  and  then  both  shall 
be  free.  There  was  a  guardian  of  orphans,  who  bought  an  ox  for 
the  orphans  and  transferred  it  to  the  shepherd.  The  ox  had  no 
teeth  and  could  not  eat,  and  finally  it  died.  And  Rami  b.  Hama 
considered  how  to  decide :  Shall  we  make  the  guardian  pay,  he 
may  say,  I  transferred  it  to  the  shepherd,  what  could  I  do  more? 
And  shall  we  say  the  shepherd  shall  pay,  he  may  say,  I  did  my 
duty.  I  have  put  it  between  the  oxen,  and  food  was  given  to  it ; 
how  could  I  know  that  it  could  not  eat  ?  [Let  us  see :  the  shep- 
herd is  considered  a  bailee  for  hire  of  the  orphans,  was  it  not  his 
duty  to  investigate?  If  there  would  be  a  damage  to  the  orphans, 
it  would  indeed  be  decided  so  ;  but  the  case  was,  that  the  orphans 
did  not  suffer  any  damage,  as  they  found  the  owner  of  the  ox 
and  collected  the  money  which  was  paid  to  him  for  it.  Who,  then, 
is  now  the  plaintiff  ?  The  owner  of  the  ox,  who  claims  that  he  was 
not  informed  of  the  case.  Of  what  should  he  be  informed  (did 
he  not  know  that  his  ox  had  no  teeth  and  the  act  of  selling  was 
a  fraud)?  It  speaks  of  a  speculator  whose  business  is  to  buy 
and  sell  oxen.]  The  decision  of  Rami  b.  Hama  was,  that  the 
speculator  should  swear  that  he  was  not  aware  of  it,  and  then 
the  shepherd  must  pay  the  value  of  cheap  meat.* 

*  Rashi  says  :  I  wonder  where  Rami's  decision  is  taken  from.  The  shep- 
herd was  surely  not  the  bailee  of  the  speculator.     It  seems,  however,  to  him,  that 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  105 

It  happened  one  deposited  a  bundle  of  hops  with  his  neigh- 
bor, who  owned  a  similar  bundle  of  the  same,  and  told  his 
employee  to  put  the  hops  in  the  beer,  from  his  own  bundle,  but 
the  employee  took  them  from  the  other  one.  When  the  case 
came  before  R.  Amram,  he  was  considering  how  to  decide  this 
case.  Shall  the  depository  be  made  to  pay  ?  He  may  claim,  I 
told  my  employee  to  take  from  my  own.  Then  should  the  em- 
ployee be  made  to  pay  ?  He  may  claim,  my  employer  did  not 
tell  me  not  to  touch  the  other  bundle,  and  I  thought  that  he 
only  showed  me  that  he  owned  hops,  and  it  was  no  difference 
from  which  bundle  I  would  take.  [But  what  damage  did  the 
depository  sustain  ?  Even  if  he  paid  for  the  hops  used,  he  has 
in  exchange  his  own.  Said  R.  Sama  b.  Rabha :  "  The  case  was, 
that  the  beer  was  spoiled  by  the  bad  hops."  And  R.  Ashi  said : 
"  The  hops  were  good,  but  mixed  with  thorns,  and  the  beer  was 
not  improved  as  it  should  be,"  And  the  employer  claimed  the 
damage  was  caused  by  the  bad  quality  of  the  hops,  and  wanted 
the  difference  of  the  value  for  not  improving,  and  it  was  decided 
he  should  get  it.] 

MISHNA  IX. :  Money  deposited  for  safe-keeping  with  a 
money-changer,  if  it  was  tied  up,  he  must  not  use  it,  and  there- 
fore, if  lost,  he  is  not  responsible.  If  open,  he  may  use  it,  and  is 
responsible  if  lost.  With  a  private  person,  however,  he  may  not 
use  it  under  any  circumstances,  and  is  therefore  not  responsible 
for  loss.  A  storekeeper  is  considered  in  this  respect  a  private 
person,  according  to  R.  Meier.  According  to  R.  Jehudh,  how- 
ever, he  is  considered  a  money-changer. 

Rami  based  his  decision  upon  the  Mishna  II.  in  this  chapter,  where  R.  Jose  declared 
that  the  cow  must  be  returned  to  its  owner,  although  the  owner  has  not  any  business 
with  the  borrower,  and  so  was  the  Halakha  decided.  Now,  as  in  that  case  the  hirer 
suffered  nothing,  as  the  law  makes  him  free  of  an  accident,  nevertheless,  because  he 
has  a  claim  against  the  borrower,  it  is  decided  that  the  owner  of  the  cow  may  substi- 
tute the  hirer  and  collect  the  money  for  his  claim  from  the  borrower.  The  same  is 
the  case  here  ;  for  if  the  orphans  would  suffer  any  damage,  they  would  surely  collect 
it  from  the  shepherd,  who  was  their  bailee.  Now,  when  they  did  not  suffer  any 
damage,  the  speculator  substitutes  them.  However,  such  moderation  could  not  be 
made  if  the  orphans  would  suffer  any  damage,  as  the  orphans,  who  are  not  yet  of  age, 
could  not  relinquish  what  is  due  to  them  ;  but  now  when  the  speculator  substitutes 
them,  and  the  claim  of  wilful  carelessness  could  not  be  made  by  the  speculator 
directly,  because  the  shepherd  claims  that  he  had  done  all  his  duty,  etc.  (see  text); 
hence  the  moderation,  he  shall  pay  the  value  of  cheap  meat  and  the  skin  shall  be 
returned  to  him.  Tosphat,  however,  maintains  in  the  name  of  R.  Tam,  that  this 
decision  was  not  a  moderation  at  all,  but  a  strict  law,  for  if  the  speculator  would  be 
informed,  he  would  have  slaughtered  the  ox  immediately,  as  he  could  not  wait  with 
it  for  the  market-day  and  sell  the  meat  at  a  low  price. 


io6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

GEMARA :  If  the  depositor  names  the  sum  contained  in 
each  bundle,  why  then  shall  the  money-changer  not  use  it  ? 
(Every  one  knows  that  a  money-changer  needs  always  money  for 
his  business,  and  one  who  deposits  money  with  him  does  so 
usually  with  the  intention  that  it  shall  be  used.)  Said  R.  Assi 
in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudh  :  "  Read  in  the  Mishna  that  it  was 
both  tied  up  and  sealed."  R.  Mari  questioned  :  "  How  is  the 
law,  when  it  was  tied  up  with  an  unusual  knot  ?  (Should  it  be 
considered  as  a  seal  or  not  ?)  "    This  question  remains  undecided. 

"  If  open,  he  may  use  it^'  etc.  Said  R.  Huna :  "  Even  if  it  was 
robbed."  [But  did  not  the  Mishna  state _/i?r  loss?  as  Rabha  ex- 
plained above,  page  ,  that  loss  means  such  an  accident  as,  e.g.^ 
his  ship  was  lost  at  sea.]  R.  Na'hman,  however,  maintains  that 
in  such  case  he  is  not  responsible.  Said  Rabha  to  him  :  "  Accord- 
ing to  your  theory  we  see  that  the  money-changer  is  not  con- 
sidered a  borrower  (who  is  responsible  even  for  an  accident) ;  then 
must  he  not  be  considered  also  as  a  bailee  for  hire  (hence  he  should 
not  be  responsible  for  theft)  ?  "  And  he  answered  :  "  I  agree  with 
you,  that  because  he  has  a  right  to  use  the  money  for  business, 
to  derive  benefit  from  it,  this  makes  him  a  bailee  for  hire."  R. 
Na'hman  objected  to  R.  Huna's  statement  from  the  following 
Tosephta :  "  '  Money  deposited  with  a  money-changer,  if  tied  up, 
must  not  be  used,  and  in  case  the  money  was  from  the  sanctuary 
and  the  money-changer  used  it,  the  transgression  is  not  imputed  to 
the  treasurer  of  the  sanctuary.  If,  however,  open,  it  maybe  used, 
and  if  the  money-changer  used  it,  the  transgression  falls  upon  the 
above-named  treasurer.'  Now,  according  to  your  theory  that 
the  money-changer  is  responsible,  even  if  it  was  robbed  by  force 
(consequently,  with  the  act  of  depositing,  it  goes  from  under  the 
control  of  the  treasurer,  and  is  from  now  on  under  the  control  of 
the  money-changer,  hence  the  transgression  was  already  done  by 
depositing).  Why  then  does  the  Tosephta  state  that  only  when 
the  money-changer  used  it,  the  transgression  falls  upon  the  treas- 
urer?" And  R.  Huna  answered:  "  Indeed,  the  same  is  the  case 
even  when  the  money-changer  has  not  used  it,  and  the  expression 
used  in  the  latter  part  is  not  to  be  taken  in  particularity,  but  it 
is  mentioned  because  of  the  same  expression  in  the  first  part  ?  " 

MISHNA  X. :  A  depository  who  stretches  his  hand  for  the 
bailment,  the  school  of  Shamai  makes  him  liable  from  the  time 
he  touched  it  for  increase  and  decrease,  so  that  if,  thereafter,  it 
becomes  lower  in  price  the  depository  must  suffer ;  and  the  same  if 
it  increases,  he  must  transfer  the  increase  to  the  owner.      The 


TRACT    BABA   METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  107 

school  of  Hillel  makes  him  liable  from  the  time  he  used  it.  R. 
Aqiba,  however,  maintains  that  he  must  pay  the  value  at  the  time 
he  is  summoned. 

GEMARA:  Rabba  said  :  "If  one  robbed  a  barrel  of  wine, 
the  value  of  which  was  one  zuz  at  that  time,  and  thereafter  it 
increases  to  four  zuz ;  if  he  breaks  it  or  drank  its  contents,  he 
must  pay  four  zuz.  If,  however,  it  breaks  accidentally,  he 
must  pay  one  zuz  only.  Why  so  ?  Because,  if  it  would  still  be 
in  existence,  he  would  be  obliged  to  return  it ;  consequently, 
the  guilt  came  with  the  drinking  or  breaking,  when  the  value 
was  already  increased ;  and  there  is  a  Mishna  that  all  robberies 
must  be  counted  from  the  time  they  were  perpetrated ;  but  if  it 
was  broken  without  his  fault,  so  that  after  its  increase  he  had 
done  nothing,  he  pays  one  zuz  only,  as  his  liability  begins  from 
the  time  he  took  it,  and  then  it  was  worth  only  one  zuz.  An  objec- 
tion was  raised  from  our  Mishna :  The  school  of  Hillel  makes  him 
liable,  etc.  What  is  meant  by  the  expression,  from  the  time  he  used 
it  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  by  the  word  used  is  meant  that  he  had 
given  it  away,  and  at  that  time  the  value  of  it  was  decreased  ?  Is 
there  one  Tana  in  the  whole  college  that  holds  so  ?  Is  it  not 
stated  in  the  Mishna  that  all  robberies  must  be  paid  at  the  time 
they  were  perpetrated,  and  if  increased  at  the  time,  then  Beth 
Hillel's  decision  would  be  the  same  as  Beth  Shamai  ?  Hence  the 
expression,  "  at  the  time  it  was  used,"  means  when  it  was  taken 
from  the  owner.  And  the  above  schools  differ  in  case  of  an  in- 
crease. According  to  Beth  Shamai,  if  it  increased  at  the  time 
he  had  given  it  away,  he  must  pay  the  increase  also ;  and  ac- 
cording to  Beth  Hillel,  it  must  be  appraised  only  at  the  time 
it  was  robbed ;  and  if  so,  then  Rabba's  decision  is  in  accordance 
with  that  of  Beth  Shamai  ?  Rabba  may  say  that  the  schools  do 
not  differ  with  an  increase,  but  with  decrease.  And  the  point  of 
difference  is  this :  The  Beth  Shamai  holds  that  the  liability  comes 
with  the  stretching  out  of  his  hands,  although  he  has  not  used  it 
as  yet ;  consequently,  the  decrease  occurs  while  under  his  control. 
And  the  Beth  Hillel  holds  that  using  is  necessary  ;  consequently, 
it  is  considered  under  the  control  of  the  owner  until  the  deposi- 
tory makes  use  of  it,  and  if  a  decrease  occurs  while  it  was  not  as 
yet  used  by  him,  it  is  counted  under  the  control  of  the  owner. 
Then  Rabha's  decision  above  (page  loi),  that  stretching  out  the 
hands  needs  not  the  using,  would  be  in  accordance  with  the  Beth 
Shamai ;  therefore  this  point  of  their  difference  must  be  ex- 
plained thus :  The  Beth  Shamai  holds   that   the  increase  of  a 


loS  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

robbed  article  belongs  to  the  owner,  and  according  to  Beth  Hillel, 
it  belongs  to  the  robber.  (And  the  Mishna  treats  of  a  case,  e.g.^ 
a  gravid  cow  or  a  sheep  unshorn,  according  to  Beth  Shamai,  it 
belongs  to  the  owner ;  and  according  to  Beth  Hillel,  it  belongs 
to  the  depository.)  R.  Meier  and  R.  Jehudah  differ  in  the  same 
case  (Baba  Kama,  page  ),  and  it  seems  to  be  so,  as  the  Mishna 
states  that  the  school  of  Shamai  holds  that  he  must  suffer  in- 
crease and  decrease ;  and  the  school  of  Hillel,  at  the  time  it  was 
used.  (From  the  expression  increase  and  decrease,  and  not 
dearer  and  cheaper,  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  it  treats  of  a  case 
similar  to  the  above-mentioned  explanation — Rashi.)  Infer  from 
this  that  so  it  is. 

R.  Aqiba,  however,  maintains,  etc.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  of  Samuel :  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Aqiba. 
He,  however,  agrees  that  in  case  there  were  witnesses  at  the  time 
of  robbery  it  must  be  paid.  Why  so  ?  Because  it  is  written 
[Lev.  V.  24]  :  "  To  whom  it  appertaineth  shall  he  give  it,  on  the 
day  when  he  confesseth  his  trespass."  And  as  there  were  wit- 
nesses, the  trespass  is  counted  from  the  time  it  was  done.  Said 
R.  Oshiato  R.  Jehudah  :  "  Rabbi,  thou  sayest  so !  So  said  R.  Assi 
in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  R.  Aqiba  insists  in  his  decree  even 
if  there  are  witnesses,  and  his  reason  is  taken  from  the  same  verse 
cited,  as  only  the  court  made  him  know  of  his  trespass."  Said 
R.  Zeira  to  R.  Abba  b.  Papa :  "  When  you  will  ascend  to  Pales- 
tine, make  thy  way  around  the  steps  of  Zur  and  visit  R.  Jacob  b. 
I'di  and  question  him  whether  he  heard  from  R.  Johanan  about 
R.  Aqiba's  decision  above,  and  if  so,  the  Halakha  prevails." 
(He  did  so)  and  the  answer  was :  "  So  said  R.  Johanan,  the  Hala- 
kha prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Aqiba  always." 

What  is  meant  always  ?  Said  R.  Ashi :  "  It  means  even  when 
there  were  witnesses.  It  can  also  be  said  that  it  means  the  Hala- 
kha  prevails  in  accordance  with  him,  even  when  the  depository 
returned  it  to  its  former  place  and  then  it  broke  :  against  R. 
Ismael's  theory  that  the  knowledge  of  the  owner  is  not  necessary 
{i.e.,  that  R.  Aqiba  makes  him  responsible  if  it  breaks,  while  the 
owner  was  not  as  yet  aware  that  the  article  was  returned),  and 
so  the  Halakha  prevails.  Rabha,  however,  said  :  "  The  Halakha 
prevails  in  accordance  with  Beth  Hillel." 

MISHNA  AY. :  If  one  intends  to  use  a  bailment  deposited  in 
his  control  and  said  so  in  presence  of  witnesses,  the  liability  fol- 
lows immediately ;  so  according  to  Beth  Shamai.  Beth  Hillel, 
however,  maintains  he  is  not  liable  unless  he  has  acted  so,  as  it 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  109 

is  written  [Ex.  xxii.  10]  :  "  That  he  has  not  stretched  out  his 
hands  against  his  neighbor's  goods."  If  he  has  bent  the  (depos- 
ited) barrel,  and  took  of  it  a  quarter  of  a  lug,  and  in  the  mean- 
time it  broke  by  accident,  he  must  pay  only  for  the  quarter  of  a 
lug.  If,  however,  he  picked  up  the  barrel  and  took  the  above- 
mentioned  measure,  and  in  the  meantime  it  broke,  he  must  pay 
for  the  whole  barrel. 

GEMARA :  Whence  is  all  this  deduced  ?  From  the  follow- 
ing, as  the  rabbis  taught :  "  It  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  8] :  '  For  all 
manner  of  trespass.'  "  From  this  the  Beth  Shamai  deduces  that 
he  is  liable  for  the  intent  as  well  as  for  the  act  itself.  The  Beth 
Hillel,  however,  maintains  that  there  is  no  liability  unless  he 
stretches  out  his  hands,  as  the  above-cited  verse  (10)  reads.  Said 
the  Beth  Shamai  to  the  Beth  Hillel :  Is  it  not  written,  "  for  all 
trespasses  "  ?  And  they  answered  :  But  is  it  not  written,  "  if  he 
had  not  stretched  out  his  hands  "  ?  The  verse,  however,  cited  by 
you  is  to  be  explained  thus :  Let  one  say  that  he  is  liable  only 
when  he  himself  committed  this  act,  but  not  if  he  did  so  through 
his  slave  or  messenger  ;  therefore  it  is  written,  of  all  trespasses. 

If  one  bent  the  barrel,  etc.  Said  Rabha :  "  It  is  so  in  case  it 
breaks.  If,  however,  the  wine  became  sour,  he  must  pay  for  the 
whole.  Why  so  ?  Because  his  act  causes  the  damage  (for  if  it 
were  full,  no  air  could  enter  to  spoil  it)." 

If,  however,  he  picks  it  up,  etc.  Said  Samuel :  "  The  expres- 
sion, and  he  took  of  it,  is  not  to  be  taken  literally,  for  it  means 
with  the  intention  of  taking  out,  and  he  is  liable  even  if  it  broke 
before  he  did  take."  Shall  we  assume  that  Samuel  holds  that 
"  using  "  is  not  needed  for  the  liability  of  stretching  hands  ?  It 
may  be  said  this  case  is  different,  as  one-quarter  of  a  lug  may 
cause  the  spoiling  of  the  whole  wine,  as  explained  above. 

R.  Ashi  questioned :  "  If  one  picked  up  a  deposited  packet 
with  the  intention  of  taking  out  of  it  one  dinar,  what  is  the  law  ? 
Shall  we  assume  that  wine  only  is  saved  when  it  is  full,  but  money 
can  be  saved  at  any  rate,  or  a  full  packet  of  money  is  safer  than 
one  which  is  not  filled  up  (as  from  a  packet  full  of  money  a  coin 
cannot  easily  drop)  ?    This  question  remains  unsettled. 


CHAPTER   IV. 

LAWS  RELATING  TO  TITLE,  REAL  AND  PERSONAL  ;  FRAUD,  WHAT 
CONSTITUTES  FRAUD  AND  THE  CIRCUMSTANCES  SURROUNDING 
FRAUDULENT    TRANSACTIONS,    ETC. 

MISHNA  /, :  If  one  bought  gold  and  silver  coins  together 
and  made  a  drawing  on  the  gold  ones,  title  is  also  given  to  the 
silver  ones,  but  not  vice  versa.  The  same  is  the  case  with  cop- 
per and  silver  coins  :  the  drawing  on  copper  ones  gives  title  to  the 
silver,  but  not  vice  versa.  If  one  has  drawn  coins  which  arc  out 
of  circulation,  having  bought  them  together  with  good  money, 
the  sale  is  valid  for  both ;  if,  however,  he  took  possession  of  the 
good  money,  which  was  bought  together  with  those  out  of  cir- 
culation, the  latter  are  not  considered  his  unless  he  takes  posses- 
sion of  them  also.  The  same  is  the  case  if  one  buy  uncoined 
with  coined  money,  to  acquire  title  to  both  he  must  take  posses- 
sion of  the  uncoined.  If,  however,  he  did  so  with  the  coined 
money,  the  uncoined  is  not  considered  bought.  Movable  articles 
give  title  by  drawing  them,  also  for  the  coins  bought  with  them, 
which  is  not  the  case  with  drawing  the  coins  only.  All  movable 
articles  give  title  by  drawing  one  of  them.  How  so?  If  one  made 
a  legal  drawing  of  the  article,  although  he  has  not  paid  the 
money  as  yet,  he  cannot  rescind.  If,  however,  he  paid  the  money, 
and  did  not  make  a  drawing  of  the  article,  he  may  rescind.  But 
it  was  said  that  He  who  has  punished  the  generation  of  the  flood 
and  the  generation  of  the  scattered,  whose  tongues  were  confused 
(Gen.  xi.  7),  He  will  punish  him  who  does  not  keep  his  promise. 
R.  Simeon,  however,  maintains  that  he  who  has  the  money  in  his 
hand  has  the  preference  (even  in  the  former  case). 

GEMARA  :  Rabbi  taught  his  son  R.  Simeon :  "  Gold  coins 
give  title  to  the  silver."  And  the  son  rejoined  :  "  Rabbi,  in  your 
youth  you  taught  us  that  the  silver  ones  give  title  to  the  gold 
ones,  and  now  in  your  old  age  you  teach  that  only  the  gold  ones 
give  title,  but  not  the  silver  ones."  [The  Gemara  questioned 
what  was  the  reason  then  ?  In  his  youth  he  taught  that  because 
gold  is  more  valued  it  is  considered  a  circulating  coin,  and  silver, 
which  is  not  so  valued,  is  considered  an  article  of  trade,  and, 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  iii 

therefore,  if  he  took  possession  of  the  article,  title  to  the  gold  one 
is  acquired  ;  and  in  his  old  age  he  came  to  the  conclusion  that 
because  silver  is  a  circulating  coin  used  all  over  the  world,  it  is 
considered  a  coin,  and  gold,  which  is  not  so  much  in  circulation,  is 
considered  an  article  of  trade :  so  that  by  drawing  it  the  silver 
coins  are  bought.] 

Said  R.  Ashi :  "  It  seems  to  me  that  his  opinion  while  in  his 
youth  is  more  correct,  as  our  Mishna  states  that  copper  gives 
title  to  silver ;  now  if  you  are  of  the  opinion  that  silver  in  com- 
parison with  gold  is  considered  an  article  of  trade,  it  is  correct 
when  it  states  that  copper  gives  title  to  the  silver,  as  it  is  consid- 
ered an  article  of  trade  only  in  comparison  with  gold,  but  in  com- 
parison with  copper  it  is  considered  a  circulating  coin.  But  if 
you  say  that  silver  is  considered  a  circulating  coin,  even  in  compari- 
son with  gold,  is  it  then  necessary  to  teach  that  it  be  considered 
so  in  comparison  with  copper  ?  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  (Hence 
his  opinion  while  in  his  youth  is  more  correct.)"  The  Gemara, 
however,  maintains  that  this  statement  cannot  be  considered  an 
evidence,  as  the  teaching  that  copper  gives  title  to  silver  was  needed 
in  case  where  silver  is  considered  a  circulating  coin,  even  in  com- 
parison with  gold,  because  it  may  be  said  that  in  the  places  where 
copper  coins  are  used  they  are  more  in  circulation  than  silver ; 
hence  they  cannot  be  considered  articles  of  trade  in  comparison 
with  silver  ;  therefore  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  although  in  some 
places  it  is  as  stated  above,  in  the  majority,  however,  silver  is 
more  in  circulation  than  copper,  and  is  considered  a  circulating 
coin  everywhere.  And  R.  Hyya  is  also  of  the  opinion  that  silver 
is  always  considered  a  circulating  coin,  and  this  is  to  be  under- 
stood from  the  following :  "  It  happened  that  Rabh  borrowed 
dinars  from  the  daughter  of  R.  Hyya  ;  thereafter  the  dinars  in- 
creased in  value,  and  when  Rabh  came  to  question  R.  Hyya,  he 
was  told  to  pay  with  the  best  dinars,  and  this  decision  shows  that 
he  held  that  silver  is  the  right  circulating  coin ;  for  if  it  would 
be  considered  an  article  of  trade  in  comparison  with  gold,  it 
should  be  considered  as  if  one  had  borrowed  a  saah  of  fruit  when 
it  was  cheap,  and  returned  the  same  measure  when  it  was  dearer, 
which  is  not  allowed  because  it  appears  usurious."  (Says  the 
Gemara :)  This  also  cannot  be  considered  as  a  real  support  for 
the  above  statement,  as  Rabh  at  the  time  he  borrowed  the  dinars 
from  R.  Hyya's  daughter  possessed  his  own  dinars,  and  in 
such  a  case  it  is  analogous  to  the  case  stated  in  a  Boraitha :  "  If 
one  says,  Lend  me  a  saah  of  grain,  I  shall  return  it  to  you  when 


112  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

my  son  will  arrive  home,  as  he  has  the  key  to  my  granary,  he  may 
return  to  the  lender  the  same  measure,  even  if  it  became  dearer, 
because  the  lender  acquired  title  to  it  at  the  same  time  that  he 
delivered  to  him  the  required  articles." 

Rabha  said  :  "  The  Tana  of  the  following  Mishna  holds  that 
gold  is  considered  the  right  circulating  coin.  The  coin  parutha 
mentioned  in  the  Talmud  is  one-eighth  of  an  Italian  Issar.  [To 
what  purpose  is  it  stated  ?  Concerning  the  law  of  marriage,  that 
less  than  a  parutha  is  not  considered.]  An  Issar  is  one  twenty- 
fourth  of  a  silver  dinar.  [To  what  purpose  is  this  ?  Concerning 
general  transactions,  that  a  silver  dinar  must  be  of  this  value,  as  it 
is  stated  further  on.  And  a  silver  dinar  is  one-twenty-fifth  of  a 
gold  one.  This  is  taught  concerning  the  law  of  redeeming  the 
first-born  son  [Ex.  xiii.  13].]  " 

Now,  ff  the  gold  dinar  is  considered  a  coin  which  is  always  of 
the  same  value,  it  is  correct  to  say  that  the  Tana  named  this  coin 
for  the  purpose  of  redeeming,  but  if  it  would  be  considered  an 
article  of  trade  which  increased  and  decreased  in  price,  would  the 
Tana  then  name  it  for  this  purpose?  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  at  the 
time  of  increasing  the  priest  would  give  him  change  of  it,  and  at 
the  time  of  decreasing  the  father  would  have  to  add  the  difference  ? 
Hence  it  is  inferred  from  this  that  it  is  considered  a  standard  coin. 

It  was  taught :  Rabh  and  Levi :  One  holds  that  the  law  of  ex- 
change applies  to  a  coin  also,  and  the  other  holds  that  it  does  not 
{i.e.,  although  it  is  said  above  by  drawing  the  coin,  the  article  is 
not  considered  sold  unless  by  drawing  the  article  itself,  this  is  only 
when  it  was  done  in  the  way  of  buying  and  selling,  but  if  it  was 
done  in  the  way  of  exchange,  e.g.,  if  one  says :  I  have  an  article 
of  so  and  so,  and  would  like  to  exchange  it  for  this  coin,  as  soon 
as  he  takes  possession  of  the  coin,  title  is  acquired  to  the  article 
by  the  other  party).  Said  R.  Papa :  "  The  reason  given  by  him 
who  holds  that  a  coin  cannot  be  exchanged  is  that  the  face  of  the 
coin  is  changeable  by  the  government,  and  to  acquire  title  by 
Sudarium,  a  standard  coin  is  needed.  An  objection  was  raised 
from  our  Mishna,  gold  coins  give  title  to  the  silver  one.  Is  it  not 
to  be  assumed  that  it  means  in  exchange  ?  Hence  we  see  that 
the  law  of  exchange  applies  to  a  coin  also.  Nay,  it  means  in  the 
way  of  buying  and  selling  for  money.  If  so,  it  should  be  stated 
that  one  who  has  drawn  the  gold  one  is  liable  for  the  silver  one  ? 
Why  the  expression,  gives  title?  Read,  then,  he  is  liable,  etc. 
And  it  seems  that  so  is  the  correct  explanation  from  the  latter 
part,  which  states  that  silver  coins  do  not  give  title  to  the  gold 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  113 

ones ;  and  this  is  correct  only  when  it  treats  of  selling  for  money, 
as  it  was  said  that  gold  is  considered  an  article  of  trade,  and  silver 
a  circulating  coin,  and  the  drawing  of  a  coin  does  not  give  title 
to  the  article ;  but  if  you  will  say  that  it  treats  of  exchange,  then 
both  articles  should  give  title,  each  to  the  other.  And  also  from  the 
following  Boraitha  :  "  Silver  does  not  give  title  to  gold  ;  also,  if  one 
sold  twenty-five  silver  dinars  for  one  gold  dinar,  although  he  made 
a  drawing  on  the  silver,  the  gold  is  not  considered  his,  unless  he 
draws  the  gold."  And  this  also  is  correct  only  by  selling ;  but  if  an 
exchange,  title  ought  to  be  given.  But  if  it  treats  for  money,  how 
is  to  be  understood  the  first  part  of  this  Boraitha  ?  Gold  gives  title 
to  silver ;  also,  if  one  has  sold  a  golden  dinar  for  twenty-five  silver 
ones,  the  silver  belongs  to  the  seller  anywhere  it  may  be  found, 
provided  the  buyer  made  a  drawing  of  the  gold.  This  would  be 
correct  if  it  treated  of  exchange,  but  when  it  speaks  of  an  ordinary 
sale,  it  should  state  that  the  buyer  is  liable  for  it  instead  of  "  the 
silver  belongs,  etc."  Said  R.  Ashi :  "  It  treats  of  a  sale  for  money, 
and  the  expression,  wherever  it  is  to  be  found,  means  the  place 
where  the  coin  war  made ;  e.g.,  if  he  promised  to  furnish  new  coins, 
he  cannot  fa'^lish  the  old  ones,  although  they  are  more  valuable, 
becauise  the  buyer  may  say,  I  need  them  for  safe-keeping,  and  new 
one*;  will  preserve  their  surface  better  than  old  ones,"  R.  Papa 
said  again  :  '*  Even  according  to  him  who  holds  that  the  law  of  ex- 
change does  not  apply  to  a  coin,  means  that  with  the  coin  itself 
exchange  cannot  be  made,  but  nevertheless  title  can  be  acquired 
to  it  by  drawing  the  exchanging  article,  similar  to  articles  of  fruit, 
in  accordance  with  R.  Na'hman's  theory,  which  is,  that  although 
exchange  cannot  be  done  with  themselves,  title,  nevertheless,  can 
be  acquired  to  it  by  drawing  the  exchanging  article,  and  the  same 
is  the  case  with  a  coin  also.  This  statement  was  objected  to  from  a 
Mishna  (Maassar  Sheni,  IV.,  5),  and  the  conclusion  was  that  the 
law  of  exchange  does  not  apply  to  a  coin  under  any  circumstance ; 
and  R.  Papa  himself  retracted  from  his  statement  (cf.  Baba  Kama, 
p.  236).  And  so  also  said  Ula,  R.  Assi,  and  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  in  the 
name  of  R.  Johanan,  that  the  law  of  exchange  does  not  apply  to  a 
coin.  R.  Abba  objected  to  Ula's  statement  from  the  following: 
"  He  whose  drivers  and  employees  were  summoning  him  for  their 
wages,  and  he  said  to  a  money-changer.  Give  me  change  for  a  dinar, 
and  I  will  give  you  from  the  money  I  have  at  home  a  good  dinar 
and  a  tressith  ;  if  he  really  possesses  money  at  home,  this  may  be 
done,  but  if  he  has  not,  it  is  prohibited,  as  it  appears  usurious. 
Now,  if  it  is  borne  in  mind  that  there  is  an  exchange  with  a  coin, 

8 


114  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

then  this  act  is  a  loan  only,  and  should  be  prohibited  ?  "  Ula  was 
silent.  Said  R.  Abba  to  him  :  "  Perhaps  the  money  of  which  the 
Boraitha  speaks  was  uncoined,  so  that  they  are  considered  articles 
of  trade,  which  may  be  acquired  by  exchange."  Said  Ula  to 
him :  "  You  are  right,  and  this  is  to  be  inferred  from  the  expres- 
sion, a  good  dinar,  and  not  a  dinar  and  a  tressith,  which  means, 
from  uncoined  money  I  have  at  home  I  will  give  you  the  value 
of  a  dinar  and  a  tressith^  R.  Ashi,  however,  said  :  The  Boraitha 
treats  of  coined  money,  and,  nevertheless,  it  does  not  contradict 
the  above  statement,  for  as  soon  as  he  has  the  money  home,  it  is 
to  be  like  the  case  where  one  said,  Lend  me  until  my  son  will 
come  with  the  keys,  stated  above. 

"  All  movable  articles,''  etc.  Said  Resh  Lakish :  "Even  a 
purse  filled  with  money  may  be  acquired  with  another  one  equal 
to  it."  And  R.  Ah'ha  explained  his  statement,  that  he  speaks  of 
dinars  in  one  purse  which  were  abolished  by  the  ruler,  and  in  the 
other  purse,  which  were  by  the  country ;  and  both  cases  are 
needed,  for  if  he  would  speak  of  those  which  were  abolished  by  the 
ruler,  one  might  say,  because  they  are  useless  anywhere,  they  may 
be  exchanged  ;  but  that  of  the  country,  which  can  be  used  in 
another  country,  they  are  still  considered  coins  in  circulation,  and 
the  law  of  exchange  does  not  apply.  And  if  he  would  speak  of 
the  latter,  one  might  say,  because  they  are  useless  at  any  rate 
in  this  country,  they  are  not  considered  any  more  as  circulating 
coins ;  but  if  prohibited  by  the  ruler,  but  privately  still  circulated, 
they  are  yet  considered  coins ;  therefore  both  statements. 

Rabba  in  the  name  of  R.  Huna  said :  "  If  one  were  holding 
some  coins  in  his  hand  and  said :  Sell  me  your  articles  for  the 
money  I  have  in  my  hand,  and  the  other  agrees,  and  accepts  the 
money,  without  asking  the  amount  of  it,  the  buyer  acquires  title 
to  the  article ;  and  if,  however,  the  article  was  in  value  a  sixth 
less  than  the  amount,  the  sale  is  null  and  void,  because  it  is 
fraudulent.  The  title  is  acquired  to  the  article  because  the  seller 
was  not  particular  as  to  the  money ;  it  is  considered  as  an  ex- 
change, and  the  law  of  fraud  applies  here,  because  of  the  expres- 
sion, '  sell  me,'  which  means  it  shall  be  the  value  of  the  amount 
I  hold  in  my  hand."  R.  Abba  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority, 
however,  said  :  "  If  one  said,  Sell  to  me  for  the  money  I  have 
in  my  hand,  no  cheating  can  be  claimed." 

It  is  certain  that  when  the  seller  is  not  particular  as  to  the 
amount,  the  buyer  acquires  title  to  the  article,  even  before  he 
drew  it,  as  it  is  considered  an  exchange,  in  which  the  drawing  of 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  115 

one  article  suffices  for  the  others  also.  But  what  is  the  law  if  it 
is  an  exchange,  and  they  are  particular  as  to  the  values — is  the 
drawing  needed  in  both  articles  or  does  one  of  them  suffice? 
Said  R.  Ada  b.  Ah'ba:  Come  and  hear:  If  one  was  holding  his 
cow  in  the  market,  and  his  neighbor  questioned  him,  Why  are  you 
holding  the  cow  here?  He  answered,  I  need  an  ass.  Replied  the 
other,  I  have  an  ass,  and  can  furnish  you  with  it,  but  would  like 
to  know  the  price  of  your  cow.  The  price  is  so-and-so.  And 
what  is  the  price  of  your  ass  ?  So-and-so ;  and  they  agree. 
Then  the  owner  of  the  ass  made  a  legal  drawing  of  the  cow, 
but  the  ass  died  before  the  owner  of  the  cow  made  the  draw- 
ing; the  title  to  the  cow  is  not  acquired  by  the  owner  of  the 
ass  ;  hence  we  see  that,  although  in  a  case  of  exchange,  as  soon 
they  are  particular  as  to  the  value,  title  is  not  acquired  un- 
less the  drawing  of  both  articles  occurs.  Said  Rabha :  "  Does 
then  the  law  of  barter  apply  to  fools  who  are  not  particular 
as  to  the  value  ?  All  exchanges  are  very  particular,  and  never- 
theless title  is  acquired  by  drawing  of  one  of  the  exchanged  arti- 
cles, and  the  above  Boraitha  treats  of  a  case  where  the  exchange 
was  made  of  an  ass  for  a  cow  and  a  sheep,  and  the  owner  of  the 
ass  made  a  drawing  on  the  cow  only,  but  not  of  the  sheep,  which 
cannot  be  considered  a  legal  drawing." 

The  Master  said  :  "  If  one  said  :  Sell  me  for  this  amount,  title 
is  acquired,  and  nevertheless  the  law  of  fraud  applies.  Shall  we 
assume  that  R.  Huna  holds  that  coins  may  be  exchanged?  Nay  ! 
R.  Huna  holds  with  R.  Johanan,  who  says  that,  biblically,  money 
gives  title,  but  for  what  purpose  was  it  so  stated  that  drawing 
gives  title  ?  This  was  enacted  for  the  purpose  that  one  might 
say.  Your  property  was  destroyed  by  fire  in  my  attic."  {I.e.,  that 
R.  Huna  holds  that  there  can  be  no  exchange  with  coins,  and  his 
above  statement  is  made  on  the  basis  that  with  the  money  he 
acquired  title,  by  using  the  word  "  sell  me,"  and  there  is  not  any 
need  of  drawing,  because  the  drawing  was  enacted  by  the  sages 
to  prevent  damage  to  buyers,  who  pay  the  money  without  taking 
possession  of  the  article ;  and  if  a  fire  may  happen  while  it  is 
yet  in  the  house  of  the  seller,  he  will  not  care  to  save  it,  as  it 
does  not  belong  to  him  any  more,  therefore  the  sages  enacted 
that  the  seller  is  responsible  for  the  property  unless  the  buyer  has 
made  a  drawing  of  it.)  And  the  enactment  was  made  only 
for  a  usual  selling  and  buying,  but  for  such  a  sale  as  R.  Huna 
stated,  which  is  unusual,  this  enactment  does  not  apply.  Said 
Mar  Huna,  the  son  of  R.  Na'hman,  to  R.  Ashi :  "  You  taught  so ; 


ii6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

we,  however,  have  taught  plainly,  and  so  said  R,  Huna,  that  no 
exchange  is  to  be  made  with  a  coin.  How  should  an  exchange 
of  coins  be  confirmed  ?  Rabh  says,  with  the  property  belonging 
to  the  buyer,*  because  it  is  more  pleasing  to  the  buyer  that  the 
seller  shall  receive  a  present  from  him  f  for  the  purpose  that  he 
shall  decide  to  transfer  the  property  to  him  with  a  good  will ;  and 
Levi  said,  with  the  garment  of  the  seller,  as  will  be  explained 
further  on."  Said  R.  Huna  of  Daskarta  to  Rabha :  According 
to  Levi's  theory,  that  it  must  be  done  with  the  garment  of  the 
seller,  for  he  may  transfer  previously  to  him  real  estate  with  this 
garment,  which  shows  that  the  title  to  real  estate  can  be  acquired 
with  personal  property,  and  there  is  a  Mishna  which  states  the 
contrary  ;  Personal  property  can  be  transferred  with  real  estate. 
And  he  answered :  If  Levi  would  be  here,  he  would  strike  your 
face  with  fiery  lashes.  Do  you  think  that  the  garment  gives 
title  ?  For  the  pleasure  he  feels  on  being  presented  with  the 
article,  he  concludes  to  transfer  the  goods  to  the  other. 

The  former  Amoraim  are  in  accordance  with  the  Tanaim  of 
the  following  Boraitha  (who  differ  also  on  this  point) :  It  is 
written  [Ruth,  iv.  7]  :  "  Now  this  was  formerly  the  custom  in 
Israel  at  a  redeeming  and  at  an  exchanging,  to  confirm  anything, 
that  a  man  pulled  off  his  shoe  and  gave  it  to  the  other,  and  this 
was  the  manner  of  testimony  in  Israel."  "Redeeming"  means 
selling,  and  so  it  reads  [Lev.  xxvii.  20] :  "  It  shall  not  be  re- 
deemed any  more."  "  An  exchanging  "  means  taken  literal,  as  it 
reads  [ibid.,  ibid.]  :  "  He  shall  not  alter  it  nor  change  it."  "  To 
confirm,  .  .  .  pulled  off  his  shoe  and  gave  it  to  the  other." 
Who  has  given  to  whom?  Boaz  gave  to  the  redeemer.  R. 
Jehudah,  however,  says :  "  On  the  contrary,  the  redeemer  gave 
to  Boaz."  There  is  a  Boraitha :  "  This  ceremony  can  be  done 
with  any  article,  even  if  its  value  is  less  than  a  parutha."  Said 
R.  Na'hman  :  "  It  must  be  a  utensil,  but  not  fruit."  R.  Shetheth, 
however,  maintains  that  this  may  be  done  with  fruit  also.  What 
is  the  reason  for  R.  Na'hman's  statement?  Because  in  the 
Scripture  one  reads  "  shoe,"  which  is  a  utensil.  R.  Shetheth, 
however,  bases  his  opinion  upon  "  confirming  anything."     And 

*  It  was  already  explained  above  that  in  ancient  times  the  custom  of  buying  and 
selling  was  that  either  the  buyer  or  the  seller  would  take  a  garment  in  his  hand,  and 
the  other  party  would  grasp  the  size  of  a  span  of  it  with  his  hand,  which  is  known 
under  the  expression  Sudarium — hence  the  question  in  the  text. 

f  The  ceremony  signifies  that  the  holder  of  the  garment  gives  it  as  a  present  to 
the  other. 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  117 

what  would  R.  Na'hman  say  to  this?  To  confirm  anything, 
which  was  done  by  the  ceremony  with  the  shoe.  But  according 
to  R.  Shetheth,  what  does  the  word  "shoe"  signify?  As  the 
shoe  is  a  complete  article,  so  all  other  articles  with  which  this 
ceremony  is  to  be  performed  must  be  completed,  to  exclude 
fruit,  which  is  not  fit  for  a  Sudarium. 

R.  Shetheth  b.  R.  Idi  said  :  According  to  whom  do  we  write 
in  our  legal  papers,  '  with  an  utensil  which  is  fit  to  confirm  with  '  ? 
In  accordance  with  the  opponents  of  R.  Shetheth,  who  said  that 
the  ceremony  may  be  done  with  fruit  also,  and  the  opponents  of 
Samuel,  who  said  that  a  vessel  made  of  maroka  (baked  ordure) 
may  be  used  for  this  purpose,  and  also  to  deny  Levi's  theory, 
which  is  "with  the  property  of  the  seller";  we  say  to  confirm 
"with,"  but  not  to  give  title  with  it.*  R.  Papa,  however,  said: 
"  The  expression,  with  a  vessel,  means  to  exclude  a  coin,  which  is 
fit."  Said  R.  Zbid,  and  according  to  others  R.  Ashi :  "  To 
exclude  such  vessels  of  which  no  benefit  must  be  derived  (as,  e.g., 
devoted  to  idolatry),  there  is  no  necessity  of  excluding  maroka, 
which  all  agree  it  is  not  fit  for  that  purpose." 

"  Uncoined  money,''  etc.  How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  Said 
R.  Johanan:  "/.^.,  a  coin  which  is  counterfeit."  And  he  is  in 
accordance  with  his  theory  elsewhere,  that  R.  Dossa  and  R. 
Ismael  said  one  and  the  same  thing.  R.  Dossa  in  a  Mishna 
(Idioth,  I.,  2)  :  Second  tithe  must  not  be  exchanged  for  a  counter- 
feit coin.  And  R.  Ismael  of  the  following  Boraitha :  It  is  writ- 
ten [Deut.  xix.  25]  :  "Then  shalt  thou  turn  it  into  money,  and 
bind  up  the  money  in  thy  hand  "  ;  to  include  all  the  money  which 
can  be  bound  in  the  hand,  so  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Ismael.  R. 
Aqiba  said  that  it  includes  all  coins  which  have  an  imprint  of  the 
ruler's  face  on  them. 

''How  so,  if  one  made  a  legal,''  etc.  Said  R.  Johanan  :  "  Bibli- 
cally, money  paid  gives  title ;  why,  then,  was  it  said  that  drawing 
is  needed  ?  For  fear  that  a  fire  may  occur  in  the  house  of  the 
seller,  where  the  bought  article  is  placed ;  and  if  it  is  still  con- 
sidered under  his  control  he  will  trouble  himself  to  save  it,  but 
if  it  would  be  considered  under  the  control  of  the  buyer  he  will 
not  care  to  save  it.  Resh  Lakish,  however,  said  that  the  draw- 
ing is  prescribed  by  the  Scripture,  viz. :  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxv. 
14] :  "  And  if  thou  sell  aught  unto  thy  neighbor,  or  buy  aught 

*  As  it  is  explained  above,  the  buyer  makes  a  present  of  it  to  the  seller,  etc., 
which  cannot  apply  to  the  seller. 


ii8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

of  thy  neighbor's  hand,''  signifies  a  thing  which  goes  from  hand 
to  hand.  R.  Johanan,  however,  says  that  "  hand  "  excludes  real 
estate,  that  the  law  of  fraud  does  not  apply  to  it.  Resh  Lakish, 
however,  maintains  that  if  it  would  be  as  R.  Johanan  said,  the 
Scriptures  would  read  in  the  case  of  selling  only.  Why  is  then  the 
case  of  selling  repeated  ?  To  verify  my  statement.  An  objec- 
tion was  raised  to  Resh  Lakish's  statement  from  our  Mishna : 
"  R.  Simeon,  however,  said  that  he  who  has  the  money  in  his 
hand  has  the  preference,"  which  means  that  the  seller  may 
retract,  but  not  the  buyer ;  and  this  is  correct  only  when  money 
paid  gives  title  biblically,  therefore  the  preference  is  given  to 
the  seller  that  he  may  retract,  in  case  the  article  will  become 
dearer  for  his  purpose  he  should  save  it  from  an  accident,  thinking 
it  is  still  considered  mine,  as  I  may  retract  and  probably  the 
price  will  be  increased  ;  but  not  the  buyer,  as  the  title  is  acquired 
with  paying  the  money.  But  if  the  money  does  not  give  title 
biblically,  why  should  not  the  buyer  also  have  the  right  to 
retract?  Resh  Lakish  may  say,  I  have  nothing  to  do  with  R. 
Simeon's  theory,  and  my  explanation  is  in  accord  with  the 
rabbis'  theory.  There  is,  however,  an  objection  from  the  latter 
part.  But  it  was  said  :  He  who  punished,  etc.,  which  would  be 
correct  only  when  money  gives  title ;  but  if  it  does  not,  why 
should  he  be  punished?  Because  he  retracts  his  words.  Is 
that  so  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Simeon  said, 
although  it  was  said  that  a  garment  gives  title  to  a  gold  dinar, 
and  not  vice  versa,  so  only  is  the  strict  Halakha ;  but  in  addition 
to  it,  however,  it  was  said  that  He  who  took  revenge  on  the 
generation  of  the  flood,  .  .  .  and  the  people  of  Sodom  and 
Gomorrah,  and  on  the  Egyptians  in  the  sea.  He  will  take 
revenge  on  him  who  retracts  his  words.  And  he  who  is  doing 
business  with  words  only  (without  money),  to  him  title  is  not 
given ;  however,  the  spirit  of  the  sages  does  not  please  him,  and 
Rabha  adds  that  this  is  the  only  punishment  for  such  people, 
hence  we  see  that  word  retractors  do  not  stand  under  the  punish- 
ments stated  above?  Yea!  They  are  not  under  punishment 
when  there  were  words  only,  but  if  there  were  words  with  money 
they  are.  Said  Rabha :  "  The  Scripture  and  a  Boraitha  support 
Resh  Lakish.  The  Scripture,  as  it  is  written  [Lev.  v.  21]:  "If 
he,  namely,  lie  unto  his  neighbor  in  that  which  was  delivered  to 
him  to  keep,  or  in  a  loan,  or  in  a  thing  taken  away  by  violence, 
or  if  he  had  withheld  the  wages  of  his  neighbor."  "  A  loan  " 
— said  R.  Hisda,  i.e.,  that  the  borrower  has  pledged  an  article  for 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  119 

his  loan  (which  is  then  equal  to  a  deposit).  "  Withheld  the 
wages" — said  R,  Hisda:  This  is  also  in  case  the  employer  has 
separated  the  amount  due  to  the  employee,  or  the  value  of  it, 
and  told  him,  from  this  you  will  collect  your  wages.  Now,  con- 
cerning repentance  the  Scripture  reads  [ibid.,  ibid.  23]  :  "  That 
he  shall  restore  what  he  had  taken  violently  away,  or  the  wages 
which  he  hath  withheld,  or  that  which  was  delivered  to  him  to 
keep."  But  a  loan  is  not  mentioned.  Is  it  not  because  there 
was  not  a  drawing  on  the  article  pledged  (which  was  still  in  the 
hands  of  the  borrower),  and  therefore  he  had  not  yet  acquired 
title  ?  Said  R.  Papa  to  Rabha :  "  Perhaps  it  is  not  repeated 
because  wages  is  repeated,  and  this  is  to  be  deduced  from  it  as 
the  case  is  similar?"  Answered  Rabha:  "It  treats  of  a  case 
when  the  employer  already  took  the  amount  which  was  assigned 
to  him  and  thereafter  deposited  it  again."  But  is  it  not  the  same 
as  a  deposit  ?  It  tells  us  of  two  kinds  of  deposits.  If  so,  should 
the  Scripture  repeat  also  a  loan,  and  should  it  be  explained 
similarly  that  the  pledge  was  returned  and  again  assigned  ? 

If  it  would  be  so,  then  it  would  be  no  objection  and  no  sup- 
port ;  but  as  the  Scripture  did  not  repeat  it,  it  may  be  considered 
a  support.  But  is  it  indeed  not  repeated?  Have  we  not  learned 
in  a  Boraitha  that  R.  Simeon  said  :  "  Whence  do  we  know  that 
the  verse  quoted  applies  to  all  that  was  mentioned  in  the  previous 
verse  ?  Therefore  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.,  24]  :  '  Or  any  one  thing 
about  which  he  may  have  sworn  falsely.'  "  And  R.  Na'hman  in  the 
name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu,  quoting  Rabh,  said  that  it  intends  to 
add  that  a  loan  shall  also  be  returned  ?  It  may  be,  but  neverthe- 
less the  Scripture  did  not  repeat  it  plainly,  and  the  Boraitha  is  as 
follows  :  If  one  has  given  a  coin  belonging  to  the  sanctuary  un- 
intentionally to  a  bath-house  keeper  (for  using  the  bath),  he  has 
committed  a  transgression,  although  he  did  not  use  it  as  yet. 
And  Rabh  explained  the  Boraitha,  that  the  expression  bath-house 
keeper  signifies  that  only  in  a  similar  case,  where  the  giver  of  the 
coin  has  nothing  to  receive  in  exchange  ;  but  in  case  he  has,  he 
committed  no  transgression,  unless  a  drawing  was  made  on  the  re- 
ceiving article.  And  so  also  is  R.  Na'hman's  opinion,  that  money 
gives  title  biblically.  And  Levi  searched  in  the  Boraithas  which 
he  compiled  himself,  and  found  one  which  stated  that  if  one 
gave  a  coin  belonging  to  the  sanctuary  to  a  wholesale  dealer  as  a 
deposit  for  goods  which  he  should  take  later,  a  transgression 
is  committed  (hence  we  see  that  money  gives  title  without  any 
drawing).  But  then  the  Boraitha  contradicts  Resh  Lakish's  above 


I20  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

statement  ?     He  may  say  that  this  Boraitha  is  in  accordance  with 
R.  Simeon  of  our  Mishna. 

'^  But  it  was  said  that  He  who  had  punished y  etc.  It  was 
taught :  According  to  Abayi,  if  he  retracts,  he  ought  to  be 
notified  that  he  will  be  punished  by  Heaven,  and  according 
to  Rabha  the  Mishna  means  he  shall  be  cursed.  He  who 
had  punished,  etc.,  shall  punish  you.  Said  Rabha:  "I  base 
my  statement  upon  the  following  act.  R.  Hyya  b.  Joseph  ac- 
cepted money  as  a  deposit  for  salt  to  be  delivered  afterwards. 
In  the  meantime  the  price  of  it  went  up,  and  he  questioned  R. 
Johanan  what  he  had  to  do,  and  was  told  that  he  must  deliver 
the  salt,  otherwise  he  must  take  the  punishment  stated  in  the 
Mishna.  Now,  if  the  Mishna  means  that  he  should  be  notified 
only,  is  then  R.  Hyya  b.  Joseph  among  those  who  must  be  noti- 
fied (was  he  not  aware  of  it)  ?  But  even  according  as  you  say, 
that  he  was  to  be  cursed,  is  it  possible  that  R.  Hyya  b.  Joseph 
would  take  for  himself  a  curse  from  the  rabbis  ?  The  case  with 
him  was  thus :  He  thought  that  he  had  to  deliver  to  him  the  salt 
according  to  the  sum  of  the  deposit,  but  not  for  the  whole  amount 
of  the  sale,  and  was  told  by  R.  Johanan  that  with  the  deposit 
they  had  acquired  title  for  the  whole  amount  bought.  It  was 
taught :  A  deposit,  according  to  Rabh,  gives  title  only  for  the 
sum  it  contains ;  and  according  to  R.  Johanan,  it  gives  title  for 
the  whole  article  or  articles  he  had  bought.  An  objection  was 
raised  :  If  one  has  given  a  deposit  to  his  neighbor,  with  the  condi- 
tion that  if  he  should  retract,  the  deposit  shall  be  relinquished ; 
and  the  other  said  to  him,  in  case  I  will  retract,  I  shall  double  the 
amount  of  the  deposit.  These  conditions  are  to  be  followed,  so 
is  the  decree  of  R.  Jose.  [And  R.  Jose  is  in  accordance  with  his 
theory  elsewhere,  that  the  presumption  is  that  it  is  a  good  sale.] 
R.  Jehudah,  however,  maintains  that  it  is  sufficient  that  he 
should  deliver  to  him  the  value  of  his  deposit.  Said  R.  Simeon 
b.  Gamaliel :  "  This  is  in  case  he  gave  him  the  money  as  a 
deposit,  but  if  it  was  given  to  him  as  a  part  of  the  payment, 
as,  e.g.,  if  one  sold  a  house  or  a  field  for  a  thousand  zuz,  and  he 
paid  five  hundred  zuz  as  a  part  of  it,  title  to  the  article  sold  is 
acquired,  and  he  must  pay  him  the  balance  even  after  a  lapse  of 
many  years."  Is  it  not  to  be  assumed  that  the  same  is  the  case 
with  movable  property,  that  the  deposit  gives  title  to  all  the 
movable  property  he  has  bought  (so  if  one  of  them  has  retracted, 
he  must  accept  the  above  curse  "  of  him  who  had  punished,"  etc.)? 
Nay  !    To  movable  articles  title  is  acquired  only  for  the  sum  the 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  »aj 

deposit  contains,  and  the  difference  between  them  and  real  estate 
is,  that  with  the  latter  title  is  acquired  by  money  only ;  tVie  de- 
posit gives  title  to  the  whole  of  it ;  but  to  movable  articles,  with 
which  drawing  is  required,  and  even  if  he  would  pay  for  the 
whole,  without  any  drawing,  the  possessor  of  the  money  has  the 
right  to  retract  (as  said  above),  but  he  must  take  the  curse  in 
question.  Hence  title  is  acquired  with  the  condition  that  the 
curse  will  be  borne  by  him.  Then  this  curse  can  apply  only  to 
the  article  in  value  as  much  as  the  deposit  contains,  but  not  for 
the  amount  it  was  bought  {i.e.,  that  if  he  had  delivered  it  to  him 
for  the  amount  of  the  deposit,  the  above  said  punishment  does 
not  apply). 

R.  Kahana  had  accepted  money  for  flax  which  he  was  to 
deliver  thereafter.  In  the  meantime  flax  became  dearer,  and  he 
questioned  Rabh  what  to  do,  and  was  told,  deliver  to  them  for 
the  sum  you  have  in  your  hand,  as  the  balance  was  bought  rely- 
ing on  words  only,  for  which  a  loss  of  confidence  is  not  to  be 
considered,  as  it  was  taught :  **  *  Words,'  Rabh  said,  '  if  they  are 
not  kept,  loss  of  confidence  is  not  to  be  considered.'  And  R. 
Johanan  says  it  may."  An  objection  was  raised  from  the  follow- 
ing :  R.  Jose  b.  Jehudah  said :  Why  is  repeated  [Lev.  xxi.  36] 
"just  hin,"  is  this  not  included  in  the  word  "just  ephah,"  ibid., 
ibid.,  to  instruct  you  that  your  Yea  (which  is  the  literal  transla- 
tion of  hin)  shall  be  just,  and  your  Nay  shall  be  just  (hence  we 
see  that  words  must  be  kept)  ?  Said  Abayi :  "  The  cited  verse 
signifies  one  shall  not  talk  with  his  mouth  differently  from  what 
he  thinks  in  his  heart."  (An  objection  was  raised  from  the 
Boraitha, "  R.  Simeon  says,"  etc.,  p.  118,  and  the  answer  was  that 
on  this  point  Tanaim  differ.) 

But  did  R.  Johanan  indeed  say  so?  Did  not  Rabba  b.  b. 
Hanna  say  in  his  name  that  if  one  said  to  his  neighbor, 
I  will  make  you  a  present,  he  may  retract  thereafter.  Said 
R.  Papa :  "  R.  Johanan  agrees  that  if  one  promises  to  make  a 
present  of  a  small  amount,  no  retraction  can  take  place,  as  the 
other  party  relies  upon  it.  It  happened  that  one  gave  money 
for  poppy,  meanwhile  the  poppy  increased  in  price,  and  the  seller 
retracted,  and  told  him,  I  have  no  poppy,  take  your  money  back; 
and  he  did  not.  Meanwhile  the  money  was  stolen,  and  the  case 
came  before  Rabha.  He  said  :  "  Because  he  was  told  to  take  his 
money  back,  the  seller  is  not  responsible,  not  only  as  a  bailee  for 
hire,  but  he  cannot  even  be  considered  a  gratuitous  bailee."  Said 
the  rabbis  to  Rabha  :  "  Must  not  the  retractor  at  least  take  upon 


122  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

himself  the  above  curse  as  his  punishment  ?  "  And  he  said  :  "  Yea ; 
if  he  will  not  give  the  poppy,  he  must  bear  this  punishment." 
Said  R.  Papi :  "  I  was  told  by  Rabbina  that  the  case  was  not  so, 
as  he  was  told  by  one  of  the  rabbis,  who  was  named  R.  Tabuth, 
and  according  to  others  Samuel  b.  Zutra  was  his  name,  and  he 
was  such  kind  of  a  man  that  he  would  not  change  his  word,  even 
if  all  goods  of  the  world  were  to  be  delivered  to  him,  and  he  told 
me  :  The  above  case  of  poppy  happened  to  me.  On  one  Friday 
I  was  sitting  in  my  house,  when  a  man  came  and  questioned  me 
whether  I  have  poppy  to  sell,  and  I  said  no  ;  said  the  man  to  me, 
let  then  this  money  I  have  be  deposited  with  you,  as  it  is  nearly 
twilight ;  and  I  said  my  house  is  yours,  put  it  wherever  you  like ; 
he  did  so,  and  finally  the  money  was  stolen,  and  when  he  came 
to  complain  before  Rabha,  he  was  told  that  by  my  words,  "  my 
house  is  yours,"  I  did  not  take  any  responsibility  even  as  a  gratui- 
tous bailee.  And  when  he  was  asked,  did  not  the  rabbis  say  to 
Rabha  that  this  man  should  take  the  curse  of  punishment,  etc.  ? 
he  rejoined  :  This  never  occurred. 

"  i?.  Simeon  said,''  etc.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  (in 
addition  to  our  Mishna),  R.  Simeon  said :  "  This  is  in  case  both 
the  article  and  the  money  were  in  the  hands  of  the  seller ;  but 
when  the  money  was  in  the  hands  of  the  seller  and  the  article  in 
possession  of  the  buyer,  he  cannot  retract,  because  he  already 
received  the  value  for  the  money."  Is  that  not  self-evident  ? 
Said  Rabha :  "  The  case  was  that  the  attic  of  the  buyer  was  hired 
by  the  seller,  and  the  article  was  placed  there.  In  such  a  case  no 
drawing  is  needed,  as  the  enactment  of  drawing  was  for  the  pur- 
pose that  the  seller  shall  trouble  himself  in  case  of  a  fire  to  save 
it,  which  does  not  apply  in  this  case,  as  the  article  was  under  the 
control  of  the  buyer,  and  if  a  sudden  fire  would  happen  the  buyer 
would  do  all  things  possible  to  save  it."  It  happened  that  one 
paid  for  an  ass,  and  before  he  got  hold  of  it  he  learned  that  this 
ass  would  be  taken  away  by  Parsek  the  rufuli.  He  demanded 
the  return  of  his  money,  claiming  he  had  no  need  for  the  ass  any 
more.  The  case  came  before  R.  Hisda,  and  he  decided  as  it  was 
enacted  that  the  seller  may  retract,  so  long  as  the  buyer  did  not 
make  a  drawing  of  the  bought  article,  so  it  was  enacted  that  the 
buyer  can  also  retract,  so  long  as  he  has  made  no  drawing  on  it. 

MISHNA  //.  :  Cheating,  which  according  to  law  makes  the 
sale  null  and  void,  is  in  case  where  the  sum  of  which  he  was 
cheated  counts  four  silver  dinars  from  the  amount  of  twenty-four 
silver  dinars,  which  makes  a  salah  i  i.e.,  a  sixth    of   the  whole 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA   (MIDDLE    GATE).  123 

amount.  Until  what  time  may  the  retraction  take  place  ?  Up 
to  the  time  that  the  buyer  can  show  his  article  to  a  merchant  or 
his  relatives.  R.  Tarphon  decided  in  the  city  of  Luda  that  to 
avoid  a  fraudulent  sale  of  eight  silver  dinars  from  twenty-four,  i.e.^ 
a  third  of  the  whole  amount  ;  and  the  merchants  of  Luda  were 
pleased  with  this  decision.  When,  however,  they  heard  his  fur- 
ther decision,  that  the  retraction  may  take  place  during  the  whole 
day,  they  requested  R.  Tarphon  that  he  should  leave  them  with 
the  old  decision  of  the  sages,  and  so  they  returned  to  the  decision 
of  the  sages. 

GEMARA  :  It  was  taught :  Rabh  said  :  "  The  Mishna  means 
the  sixth  of  the  correct  price  of  the  article."  Samuel  says  :  "  It 
means  also  a  sixth  of  the  amount  "  (the  illustration  further  on). 
(Says  the  Gemara:)  If  one  has  sold  an  article  of  six  dinars  for  five, 
or  for  seven,  both  agree  that  the  price  is  to  be  considered ;  and 
in  both  cases  there  is  a  cheating  of  a  sixth.  If,  however,  he  sold 
an  article  of  five  dinars  for  six,  or  seven  for  six,  according  to 
Samuel,  who  said  that  the  sum  of  the  money  must  also  be  taken 
in  consideration,  it  is  considered  cheating,  as  the  price  was  six, 
and  there  was  cheating  in  one  dinar.  According  to  Rabh,  how- 
ever, who  says  that  the  correct  price  of  the  article  must  be  con- 
sidered, if  he  took  six  for  five,  then  the  cheating  was  of  a  fifth, 
and  the  sale  is  void  ;  and  if  seven  for  six,  then  the  cheating  on  the 
part  of  the  seller  was  less  than  a  sixth,  the  sale  is  valid,  and  the 
dinar  is  considered  relinquished.  The  reason  of  Samuel's  state- 
ment is  that  the  sale  is  considered  void  only  when  there  is  more 
than  a  sixth  both  in  the  price  of  the  article  and  in  the  money  paid  ; 
and  the  same  is  the  case  with  relinquishing,  that  there  is  less  than 
a  sixth  of  both  ;  but  if  there  is  a  sixth  part  of  one  of  the  two,  it  is 
considered  cheating,  and  the  money  which  was  paid  in  excess,  or 
less,  must  be  returned  by  the  parties. 

There  is  a  Boraitha  which  supports  Samuel,  as  follows  :  "  He 
who  was  cheated  has  the  preference.  How  so  ?  If  one  sold 
an  article  which  was  worth  five  for  six,  who  was  cheated  ? 
The  buyer;  he  had  the  preference  of  choosing;  if  he  likes  he 
may  say,  return  to  me  my  money,  or,  if  he  wishes,  he  may  say, 
give  me  the  dinar  of  which  I  was  defrauded."  And  if  one  has 
sold  the  value  of  six  dinars  for  five,  who  was  cheated  ?  The  seller ; 
then  he  has  the  preference  ;  he  may  choose  to  demand  the  return 
of  the  article,  or  he  shall  give  him  one  more  dinar,  of  which  he 
was  defrauded.  (Hence  it  is  considered  a  cheating  either  in  price 
or  in  the  money.)     The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question  :  *'  If 


124  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

there  was  a  cheating  less  than  a  sixth,  which,  according  to  the 
rabbis  is  considered  a  relinquishment,  does  it  take  place  imme- 
diately, or  does  the  buyer  have  time  to  show  it  to  a  merchant  or 
his  relatives ;  and  if  you  would  say  that  so  it  is,  what  then  should 
be  the  difference  between  a  sixth  or  less  ?  Shall  we  assume 
that  if  a  sixth  he  has  the  preference,  if  he  likes  to  make  void 
the  sale,  or  to  demand  the  money  he  was  defrauded  of ;  and  if  it 
was  less  than  a  sixth  the  sale  is  valid,  but  the  sum  obtained  by 
cheating  must  be  returned?"  Come  and  hear  the  last  words 
stated  in  our  Mishna :  "  and  so  they  returned  to  the  decision  of 
the  sages."  (That  is,  that  time  for  showing  it  to  a  merchant,  etc., 
was  always  granted.) 

Said  Rabha :  "  The  Halakha  prevails  as  follows :  If  cheating 
was  less  than  for  a  sixth  of  its  value,  the  sale  is  valid  ;  more  than 
a  sixth,  the  sale  is  void  ;  and  if,  however,  an  exact  sixth,  the  sale 
is  valid,  but  the  amount  must  be  returned  to  him  who  was 
cheated,  and  in  all  such  cases  the  time  for  showing  to  merchants, 
etc.,  is  granted."  There  is  a  Boraitha  supporting  Rabha,  viz. : 
"  Cheating  in  less  than  a  sixth,  the  sale  is  valid ;  more  than  a 
sixth,  the  sale  is  void ;  an  exact  sixth,  the  sale  is  valid,  but  the 
cheating  must  be  returned."  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Nathan. 
R.  Jehudah  the  prince,  however,  maintains  :  "  The  seller  always 
has  the  preference ;  if  he  likes  he  may  require  the  price  which 
was  agreed,  or  that  the  amount  of  which  he  was  cheated  should 
be  returned  ;  in  both  cases,  however,  time  for  showing  it  to  a 
merchant  must  be  granted  to  the  buyer." 

"  Until  what  time  the  retraction  may  take  place"  etc.  Said  R. 
Na'hman :  "  This  decision  applies  to  the  buyer  only,  but  the 
seller  may  retract  at  any  time."  Shall  we  assume  that  the  last 
words  of  our  Mishna  support  R.  Na'hman,  as  they  are  correct 
only  when  the  seller  has  the  right  to  retract  at  any  rate  ;  and, 
therefore,  they  were  not  benefited  by  R.  Tarphon's  decision ;  but 
if  you  would  say  that  the  seller  has  no  more  right  than  the  buyer, 
then  they  could  be  benefited  by  R.  Tarphon's  decision,  in  case 
they  have  erred  in  the  price  of  sale.  Why,  then,  have  they  re- 
turned to  the  decision  of  the  sages?  (This  is  not  to  be  con- 
sidered a  support,  as  it  is  not  usual  that  the  merchants  of  Luda 
should  make  an  error  in  the  sale.) 

The  host  of  Rami  b.  Hama  sold  an  ass  and  erred  in  the  price, 
and  Rami  found  him  dejected,  and  questioned  him  why,  and  he 
answered,  because  of  the  sale ;  and  Rami  told  him  to  retract,  but 
he  rejoined  that  the  time  for  showing  it  to  a  merchant,  etc.,  had 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  125 

already  elapsed ;  then  Rami  advised  him  to  go  into  the  court 
of  R.  Na'hman,  and  he  decided  according  to  his  theory  stated 
above  (in  the  beginning  of  the  paragraph).  His  reason  was  that 
the  buyer  always  carries  the  article  with  him,  and  so  can  show  it 
to  all,  if  there  were  an  overcharge  or  not ;  but  the  seller,  who  is 
not  in  possession,  must  wait  until  a  similar  article  is  again  in  his 
possession  to  show  it,  and  therefore  he  may  retract.  There  was  a 
man  who  had  to  sell  pearls,  which  were  worth  five  dinars  each, 
and  he  demanded  six.  When,  however,  he  was  offered  five  and 
a  half,  he  accepted  it.  A  buyer  who  wanted  to  get  the  same  for 
five  dinars  said  to  himself,  if  I  would  give  him  five  and  a  half  I 
could  not  sue  him  any  more,  as  the  half-dinar  would  be  con- 
sidered a  relinquishment,  as  it  is  less  than  a  sixth  ;  I  will,  there- 
fore, give  him  all  he  demands,  and  then  I  will  sue  him  for  cheat- 
ing me  of  an  exact  sixth ;  and  he  will  be  compelled  to  return  one 
dinar.  When  the  case  came  before  Rabha,  he  said  that  the  law 
in  question  applied  only  to  him  who  buys  from  a  merchant,  but 
of  a  private  person  no  cheating  is  considered.  A  similar  case 
came  before  R.  Hisda,  and  he  decided  the  same  as  Rabha  did  ; 
and  R.  Dimi,  who  was  present,  said  to  him  ;  "  Even  so  ;  you  have 
decided  righteously."  And  so  did  R.  Elazar  also  say :  "  Even 
so  !  "  But  is  there  not  a  Mirhna  which  states,  as  the  law  of 
fraud  applies  to  a  layman  it  applies  also  to  a  merchant ;  now,  is 
not  a  layman  the  same  as  a  private  person  ?  Said  R.  Hisda : 
"  The  Mishna  speaks  of  a  private  person  who  sells  hemp  articles ; 
but  if  he  sells  the  utensils  which  were  used  by  himself,  if  not  at 
a  good  price,  he  would  not  sell  them." 

MISHNA  ///. :  The  law  of  fraud  applies  to  the  buyer  as  well 
as  to  the  seller,  to  a  private  person  as  well  as  to  a  merchant.  R. 
Jehudah,  however,  maintains  that  there  is  no  cheating  concerning 
a  merchant.  The  cheated  one  has  the  preference ;  he  may  de- 
mand his  money  should  be  returned ;  or,  if  he  likes,  the  amount 
of  which  he  was  cheated. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  all  this  deduced?  As  the  rabbis 
taught,  it  is  written  [Lev.  xxv.  14] :  "  Ye  shall  not  overreach  one 
another  "  ;  from  this  we  learn  in  case  the  buyer  was  cheated,  but 
whence  do  we  know  that  same  is  the  case  with  the  seller?  There- 
fore it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.]  :  "  Or  buy  aught  of  thy  neighbor  "  ; 
and  both  cases  were  necessary,  for  if  the  Scripture  would  mention 
the  seller  only,  one  might  say  that,  because  he  is  aware  of  the 
value  of  his  stock,  the  cheating  is  a  crime  to  him,  but  the  buyer, 
who  is  not  aware  of  the  exact  price,  the  law  of  fraud  does  not 


126  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

apply ;  and  if  the  Scripture  would  mention  the  buyer  only,  one 
might  say,  because  he  received  for  his  money  a  valuable  article 
which  remains  with  him  permanently.  The  law  of  fraud  applies 
here,  but  the  seller,  who  loses  his  article  and  takes  money,  which 
is  not  stationary,  "  as  people  say  if  you  sell  an  article  it  is  lost  to 
you,"  one  might  say  that  the  above  law  does  not  apply  to  him, 
therefore  both  are  mentioned. 

"  There  is  no  cheating  concerning  a  merchant''  etc.  Because  he 
is  a  merchant,  no  cheating  should  be  considered  ?  Said  R.  Na'h- 
man  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  "  R.  Jehudah  speaks  of  a  specialist  who 
knows  the  value,  and  the  reason  why  he  sold  it  below  the  price  is 
to  be  considered  that  he  needed  money  at  that  time  to  buy  an- 
other bargain  and,  therefore,  he  relinquished  the  greater  value  of 
the  article  sold,  and  the  retraction  took  place  afterwards  (therefore 
it  must  not  be  considered).  R.  Ashi,  however,  says :  "  R.  Jehu- 
dah's  decree  may  be  explained  thus  :  Concerning  a  merchant  the 
prescribed  kind  of  cheating  is  not  to  be  considered,  as  he  may 
retract  even  if  it  were  other  than  the  prescribed  kind."  There  is 
a  Boraitha  supporting  R.  Na'hman,  viz.  :  "  R.  Jehudah  main- 
tains no  cheating  exists  in  regard  to  a  merchant,  because  he  is 
experienced." 

"  The  cheated  has  the  preference^  According  to  whom  is  our 
Mishna?  Not  with  R.  Nathan,  and  also  not  with  R.  Jehudah 
the  prince,  of  the  Boraitha  cited  above.  For  our  Mishna  states, 
"  if  he  likes,"  and  R.  Nathan's  decision  is  strictly  ;  and  R.  Jehudah 
mentioned  in  his  decision  "  the  seller,"  while  our  Mishna  men- 
tioned "  the  buyer  "  ?  Said  R.  Elajar  :  "  I,  indeed,  do  not  know 
who  taught  our  Mishna."  Rabba,  however,  said  :  "  The  Mishna 
is  in  accordance  with  R.  Nathan,  and  the  Boraitha  is  to  be  cor- 
rected  with  the  addition,  '  if  he  Hkes.'  "  Rabha,  however,  main- 
tains that  the  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah,  and  that 
which  was  omitted  in  the  Mishna  concerning  the  seller  the 
Boraitha  explains.  Said  R.  Ashi :  "  It  seems  to  be  that  this  ex- 
planation is  correct,  as  the  Mishna  begins,  *  to  the  buyer  as  well 
to  the  seller,'  and  thereafter  it  mentions  only  the  buyer,  of  which 
is  to  be  seen  that  something  is  omitted,  and  that  was  the  seller." 
Infer  from  this  that  so  it  is. 

It  was  taught :  "  If  one  says,  I  sell  this  article  to  you  with 
the  condition  you  shall  not  claim  any  cheating  of  me,  Rabh 
says  that  he  nevertheless  may  claim  cheating,  if  there  were  any, 
and  according  to  Samuel  he  may  not.  Said  R.  Anan  :  "  Mar 
Samuel  has  explained  tome  his  decree  as  follows:  If  one  says, 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  127 

with  the  condition  you  shall  not  claim  of  me  any  cheating,  no 
claim  must  be  considered  ;  if,  however,  he  say,  with  the  condition 
that  no  cheating  with  the  article  should  be  claimed,  if  there  was 
a  cheating  the  claim  must  nevertheless  be  considered." 

Said  Abayi :  "  Rabh's  decree  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Meier, 
who  holds  (in  Tract  Kedushin)  that  no  condition  can  be  made 
concerning  a  law  which  is  plainly  written  in  the  Scripture,  and 
Samuel's  decree  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah,  who  holds 
that  this  rule  holds  only  concerning  prohibited  things,  but  not  in 
money  matters."  Rabha,  however,  maintains  that  both  (Rabh's 
and  Samuel's)  statements  are  in  accordance  with  both  mentioned 
Tanaim,  and  notwithstanding  present  no  difficulty,  as  the  above 
Amoraim  speaks  of  a  case  where  the  seller  did  not  mention  to  the 
buyer  that  he  is  certain  that  the  price  is  higher  than  the  real 
value  of  the  article,  and  the  Tanaim  of  the  above  cited  Mishna 
speak  of  a  case  where  such  was  mentioned,  as  so  we  have  learned 
in  addition  to  our  Mishna  in  the  following  Boraitha :  "  This  is 
only  in  case  where  the  seller  says,  I  do  not  think  that  you  will  be 
cheated,  but  even  if  you  should,  you  shall  not  claim  cheating ; 
if,  however,  a  condition  was  plainly  made,  as,  e.£:,  the  seller  says 
to  the  buyer,  this  article  which  I  am  about  to  sell  you  for  two 
hundred,  I  am  aware  has  a  value  of  only  one  hundred,  and  it  will 
be  yours  for  my  price,  with  the  condition  that  you  shall  not  claim 
cheating  ;  and  the  same  is  when  the  buyer  says  to  the  seller,  this 
article  I  am  about  to  buy  from  you  for  one  hundred,  I  know  is 
worth  two  hundred,  and  with  the  condition  that  no  cheating  shall 
be  claimed,  I  give  you  the  money,  then  no  claim  of  cheating  is  to 
be  considered." 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  If  one  is  doing  business  with  his  neigh- 
bor in  trust,*  he  must  not  furnish  him  with  bad  articles  in  trust 
and  with  good  articles  according  to  their  value,  but  both  should 
be  equal  (if,  for  instance,  there  are  two  kinds  of  wine,  good  which 
can  easily  be  sold  wholesale,  and  bad  which  can  be  sold  only  in 
retail,  the  possessor  must  not  offer  the  good  to  the  agent  for  the 
full  value,  with  the  condition  he  shall  sell  for  him  the  bad  to 
storekeepers  at  any  price  he  may  obtain,  and  the  money  for  both 
shall  be  returned  to  him  after  all  is  sold ;  that  is,  that  for  his 
trouble  he  should  use  the  money  obtained  for  the  good  until  the 

*  He  gives  articles  to  his  neighbor  to  sell,  as  he  trusts  him  on  his  word.  Rashi 
Tosephath,  however  maintains  that  it  means,  if  one  is  furnishing  his  neighbor  with 
money  to  buy  articles  for  him.  In  accordance  with  Rashi's  explanation,  the  law  of 
cheating  could  not  be  applied. 


128  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

bad  be  sold  in  retail,  as  this  would  be  indirect  usury),  and  for 
his  trouble  he  should  pay  him  the  usual  price.  The  commis- 
sioner, however,  may  charge  him  for  carrying  on  his  shoulder,  for 
the  hiring  of  a  camel,  and  for  storage  and  hotel,  but  not  separately 
for  himself,  as  he  has  been  paid  already  for  his  trouble  in  full." 

What  does  it  mean  that  he  shall  pay  for  his  trouble  sep- 
arately? Said  R.  Papa:  ^' As,  e.g.,  the  sellers  of  hemp  articles 
get  four  per  cent.  '  as  their  commission.'  " 

MISHNA  IV. :  How  much  less  of  the  quantity  of  the  Sala 
should  be  effaced,  that  the  law  of  fraud  could  not  be  claimed  ? 
According  to  R.  Meier,  four  issars,  which  is  one  issar  to  each  dinar; 
and  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  ionr  pundiuns,  ont  pundiun  to  each 
dinar.  According  to  R.  Simeon,  however,  eight  pundiuns ;  two 
pundiuns  (which  are  four  issars)  to  one  dinar  (and  it  means  an 
exact  sixth  of  its  value).  What  time  is  to  be  given  for  retracting? 
In  the  large  cities,  time  for  showing  it  to  a  money-changer  must 
be  granted;  and  in  villages,  until  the  eve  of  Sabbath.  If,  however, 
there  was  a  sale,  even  after  an  elapse  of  twelve  months,  he  must 
accept  its  return  without  any  claim,  but  he  may  be  angry  with  him. 
Such  a  sala  may  be  expended  for  second  tithe  without  any  fear, 
as  he  who  does  not  accept  circulating  money  is  considered  a  bad 
man. 

GEMARA:  There  is  a  contradiction  to  our  Mishna  from  the 
following  Boraitha,  which  states :  How  much  should  the  sala  be 
effaced  that  the  law  of  fraud  should  apply?  (the  same  quan- 
tity as  in  our  Mishna  is  given  ;  hence,  according  to  the  Boraitha, 
the  law  of  fraud  applies  to  such  quantities,  and  according  to  our 
Mishna  it  does  not  ?)  Said  R.  Papa :  "  This  presents  no  difficulty. 
The  Tana  of  our  Mishna  comes  from  the  bottom  to  the  top  {i.e., 
an  effaced  sala  until  what  quantity  it  may  be  circulated  until  it 
reaches  the  quantity  mentioned  ;  but  if  such  a  quantity  is  already 
reached,  it  is  not  any  more  considered  in  circulation,  and  the  law 
of  fraud  applies) ;  and  the  Tana  of  the  Boraitha  comes  from  top 
to  the  bottom  {i.e.,  if  the  effaced  coin  has  lost  the  quantity  in 
question,  it  is  not  more  fit  for  circulation,  etc.,  hence  both  state- 
ments have  the  same  meaning)." 

Why,  then,  do  the  Tanaim  differ  concerning  a  sala  and  not 
with  another  article,  in  which  all  agree  that  a  sixth  is  the  prescribed 
kind  of  cheating?  Said  Rabha:  The  Tana  who  holds  a  sixth  is 
the  prescribed  kind  is  R.  Simeon,  who  points  to  the  same  kind 
in  a  sala.  Abayi,  however,  maintains  that  one  usually  relinquishes 
if  he  was  cheated  in  value  less  than  a  ^ixth  ;  as  people  say,  pay 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  129 

dearer  for  the  necessity  of  your  dressing,  but  for  your  stomach 
look  that  you  are  not  overcharged.  The  text  of  the  Mishna  says : 
How  much  of  the  quantity,  etc.  A  Tosephta  in  addition  to  this 
Mishna  states  that  if  it  was  effaced  more  than  the  above  quantity, 
he  may  sell  it  for  its  value.  What  is  the  prescribed  quantity  of  a 
diminished  coin  which  one  is  still  allowed  to  keep  ?  If  it  was  a 
sala,  he  may  keep  it  if  it  still  contains  the  value  of  a  shekel ;  and 
if  it  was  a  dinar,  he  may  keep  it  when  a  quarter  of  the  quantity 
was  diminished.  If,  however,  it  was  less  than  one  issar  it  is  pro- 
hibited, and  he  must  not  sell  it  to  a  merchant,  and  not  to  a  power- 
ful man,  or  to  a  robber,  as  they  may  cheat  some  other  persons  with 
it,  and  therefore  it  is  advisable  he  shall  bore  a  hole  in  it,  and  put 
it  around  the  neck  of  his  son  or  daughter. 

The  master  says  :  "  A  sala  of  the  value  of  a  shekel,  which  counts 
a  half ;  and  from  a  dinar  only  a  quarter ;  why  the  difference  ?  " 
Said  Abayi :  "  The  quarter  concerning  an  issar  means  a  quarter 
of  a  shekel,  which  counts  a  half  of  a  dinar."  Said  Rabha :  "  It 
seems  to  me  so,  because  it  is  not  stated  '  a  quarter  of  it,'  but  a 
*  quarter,'  which  generally  means  *  of  a  shekel.'  "  But  why  should 
the  prescribed  quantity  of  a  dinar  be  dependent  upon  a  shekel? 
Herewith  he  teaches  us,  by  the  way,  that  there  is  a  kind  of  dinar 
which  came  from  a  shekel  {i.e.,  that  the  quantity  of  the  shekel  was 
diminished  to  a  half),  and  this  is  a  support  to  the  statement  of  R. 
Ami,  who  says  that  a  dinar  which  came  from  a  shekel  may  be  kept 
for  circulation  (as  every  one  could  recognize  that  it  is  only  a  half 
of  the  quantity) ;  but  a  dinar  which  came  from  a  sala  {i.e.,  that  the 
sala  was  diminished  to  the  value  of  three  quarters),  it  may  not  be 
kept  in  circulation  even  at  the  value  of  a  dinar,  because  it  is  still 
a  large  coin,  and  can  easily  be  taken  for  a  shekel.  The  Boraitha 
states,  if,  however,  it  was  less  than  an  issar,  then  it  is  prohibited. 
How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  Said  Abayi :  "  It  means  to  say,  if 
the  sale  in  question  was  diminished  more  than  the  value  of  an  issar, 
it  is  prohibited  to  be  kept."  Said  Rabha  to  him  :  "  Why  an  issar  ? 
If  the  sala  in  question  was  diminished  even  only  a  trifle  of  the 
above  quantity,  it  is  also  prohibited  to  be  kept  ?  Therefore,"  says 
he,  "  it  means  if  a  sala  were  diminished  in  quantity  as  an  issar  to  a 
dinar,  it  is  prohibited  to  be  kept,  and  it  is  in  accordance  with  R. 
Meier's  opinion."  An  objection  was  raised  :  Until  what  quantity 
may  it  be  diminished,  and  still  allowed  to  be  kept  ?  If  it  was  a  sala, 
until  the  quantity  of  a  shekel.  Is  it  not  to  be  assumed  that  it  was 
diminished  little  by  little,  and  still  it  was  allowed  to  be  kept  until 
it  became  of  the  size  of  a  shekel  ?  Nay,  it  means  that  it  was 
9 


I30  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

dropped  into  the  fire  and  diminished  all  at  once.  The  master 
says  :  "  He  may  bore  a  hole  in  it  and  put  it  around  the  neck,"  etc. 
There  is  a  contradiction  from  the  following :"  An  uncirculating 
coin  must  not  be  used  as  a  weight,  and  also  he  must  not  use  it 
for  an  ornament,  and  also  he  must  not  perforate  it,  and  put  it  on 
the  neck  of  his  son  or  daughter ;  but  he  shall  grind  or  melt  it,  or 
cut  it  in  pieces,  or  throw  it  away  into  the  Dead  Sea  "  (so  that  it 
could  not  be  used  by  swindlers,  hence  it  states  he  must  not  per- 
forate it,  etc.).  Said  R.  Elazar,  and,  according  to  others,  R.  Huna 
in  his  name  :  "  This  presents  no  difificulty.  The  statement  that  he 
may  bore  a  hole  in  it  means,  in  the  middle  of  the  coin,  which  spoils 
it  entirely ;  and  the  statement  that  it  may  not  means,  on  the  side  " 
(as  a  swindler  could  fix  it),  ? 

"  W/iat  time  is  to  be givefi  for  retracting''  etc.  Why  concern- 
ing a  sala,  it  makes  a  difference  between  large  cities  and  villages, 
which  is  not  the  case  with  another  article  ?  Said  Abayi :  "  The 
statement  of  our  Mishna  concerning  an  article  means  also  in  the 
large  cities."  Rabha,  however,  maintains  "that  every  one  is 
aware  of  the  value  of  a  common  article,  but  to  understand  the 
value  of  a  sala  one  must  be  a  money-changer;  therefore,  in  large 
cities,  where  money-changers  are  to  be  found,  such  time  is  pre- 
scribed ;  in  the  villages,  however,  where  money-changers  are  not 
to  be  found,  time  is  given  until  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  when  usually 
people  go  to  the  market  to  buy  supplies  for  Sabbath. 

"  If,  however^  there  was  a  sala,''  etc.  Where  ?  If  in  the  large 
cities,  there  is  a  money-changer ;  and  if  in  villages,  it  is  said, "  until 
the  eve  of  Sabbath  "  ?  Said  R.  Hisda :  "  It  is  not  the  strict  law, 
but  a  meritorious  act  for  pious  men  is  taught  here."  If  so,  how  is 
to  be  understood  the  latter  part,  "  but  he  may  be  angry  "  ?  Who 
should  be  angry — the  pious  one  ?  Let  him  not  accept  it,  and 
not  be  angry,  or  the  one  who  returned  it  should  be  angry,  why 
it  was  accepted  ?  It  means  to  say  thus :  "  That  even  if  he  who 
is  not  pious,  and  does  not  accept  it,  the  one  who  possesses  the 
coin  may  be  angry,  but  cannot  sue  him." 

"  Such  a  sala  may  be  expended  for  second  tithe,"  etc.  Said  R. 
Papa :  "  Infer  from  this  that  he  who  is  too  particular  with  the 
examination  of  money  is  considered  a  bad  man,  provided  he  can 
circulate  it  easily.  Our  Mishna  may  be  a  support  to  Hiskiyah, 
whp  said  that  if  one  came  to  change  a  coin  of  a  second  tithe  for 
small  money,  he  may  take  change  only  for  its  value ;  but  if  he 
would  exchange  the  second  tithe  for  it,  he  may  take  as  much  of 
the  second  tithe  as  if  it  would  be  a  good  one.     How  is  this  to  be 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  131 

understood?  He  means  to  say  that,  although,  when  changing 
it  for  small  money,  he  cannot  take  more  than  its  value,  he  may 
nevertheless  take  the  second  tithe  for  the  full  value  of  such 
a  coin. 

MISHNA  V.  :  The  prescribed  quantity  for  cheating  is  four 
silver  dinars  to  each  sala ;  for  a  claim  of  which  one  of  the  parties 
must  take  an  oath,  no  less  than  the  value  of  two  silver  dinars. 
For  admitting  a  debt,  which  makes  him  liable  for  a  biblical  oath 
of  denying  the  claim  of  the  plaintiff,  a  perutha  is  sufficient.  In 
five  cases  the  value  of  a  perutha  is  prescribed — one  just  men- 
tioned ;  second,  a  case  of  betrothal,  for  which  the  value  of  a 
perutha  suffices ;  third,  the  one  who  benefits  himself  from  the 
goods  belonging  to  the  sanctuary,  with  the  value  of  one  perutha, 
he  has  committed  a  transgression ;  fourth,  who  finds  an  article 
worth  only  a  perutha,  he  is  obliged  to  proclaim ;  and  fifth,  he 
who  has  robbed  his  neighbor  for  the  value  of  one  perutha,  and 
has  sworn  falsely,  and  after  repented,  he  must  return  it  to  him 
personally,  even  should  the  robbed  one  be  at  that  time  in  Madai. 

GEMARA :  Was  this  not  stated  already  in  Mishna  II  ?  It 
is  repeated  because  of  the  perutha  of  admission ;  but  even  this 
is  already  stated  in  a  Mishna  (in  Kidushin,  etc.)  ?  It  is  repeated 
here  also  because  of  the  new  statement  about  the  five  peruthas. 

"  In  five  cases  the  value,''  etc.  Let  it  teach,  also,  that  there  is 
one  more  perutha  of  cheating  {i.e.,  that  when  he  sold  an  article  for 
six  peruthas,  and  it  was  worth  only  five).  Said  R.  Kahana: 
"  From  this  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  law  of  cheating  does  not 
apply  to  peruthas ;  it  means  that  to  less  than  a  silver  coin  no 
claim  of  cheating  can  be  made."  Levi,  however,  maintains  it  does 
apply,  and  so  he  taught  in  his  Boraitha.  There  are  five  peruthas — 
cheating,  admitting,  betrothal,  robbing,  and  the  warrant  of  the 
judges.  Why  does  not  the  Tana  of  our  Mishna  mention  that  a 
warrant  can  be  issued  for  a  perutha  ?  Is  not  robbery  the  same 
case,  and  it  is  mentioned?  But  notwithstanding  that  it  men- 
tioned robbery,  it  does  mention  a  loss  worth  a  perutha  (which 
also  must  be  decided  by  the  court)?  This  was  necessary  to  state, 
owing  to  the  peculiarity  of  both.  The  robbed  article  must  be 
returned,  even  if  the  owner  is  in  Madai,  and  one  must  proclaim 
a  lost  article  even  if  it  was  worth  only  one  perutha,  and  after 
finding  it  is  decreased  in  value.  Why,  then,  does  not  Levi  men- 
tion a  lost  article  in  his  Boraitha?  Because  he  mentioned  rob- 
bery. But  why  does  he  mention  the  warrant  for  a  perutha — is  it 
not  the  same  as  robbery  ?     This  was  necessary  to  deny  R.  Ktina's 


132  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

statement,  who  maintains  that  a  warrant  can  be  issued  even  for 
less  than  a  perutha.  Rabha  objected  to  R.  Ktina's  statement 
from  the  following:  "It  is  written  [Lev.  v.  i6]  :  And  that  in 
which  he  hath  sinned  against  the  holy  thing,  he  shall  pay."  That 
means  to  include,  that  even  when  the  value  was  less  than  a 
perutha,  it  must  be  returned  ;  hence  it  is  only  of  the  sanctuary, 
but  not  of  common  property ;  therefore  if  it  was  taught  in  the 
name  of  R.  Ktina,  it  was  as  follows :  If  the  court  found  it  nec- 
essary to  take  up  the  claim  of  the  value  of  a  perutha,  it  may 
issue  a  warrant  even  for  less  than  a  perutha,  as  the  court  does 
not  start  a  case  less  than  a  perutha ;  but  if  it  was  started,  the  de- 
cision may  be  even  for  less. 

MISHNA  VI. :  There  are  five  fifth  parts  (which  must  be  added 
to  the  principal  amount)  and  they  are  :  (i)  who  eats  heave-offer- 
ing ;  (2)  the  heave-offering  of  tithe  {t/ie  tenth  part  of  which  the 
Levites  must  separate  from  the  tithe  [Num.  xviii.  26]) ;  (3)  the  same 
which  was  separated  when  the  grain  was  bought  from  a  suspicious 
man ;  (4)  the  first  dough  [Num.  xv.  20] ;  and  (5)  the  first-fruits 
[Lev.  ii.  14].  The  same  is  also  the  case  if  one  redeems  his  plants 
in  the  fourth  year  (after  planting),  he  must  add  a  fifth  part,  or 
he  exchanges  his  second  tithe.  The  same  is  also  the  case  if  one 
redeems  from  the  sanctuary  the  article  he  has  sanctified,  and  also 
who  had  any  benefit  of  the  things  belonging  to  the  sanctuary,  the 
value  of  a  perutha,  and  also  if  one  robbed  his  neighbor  of  the 
value  of  2,  perutha  and  swore  falsely,  all  of  them  must  add  a  fifth 
part  to  the  principal  amount. 

GEM ARA :  Said  Rabha :  It  was  a  difficulty  to  R.  Elazar,  the 
statement  of  our  Mishna  that  a  fifth  must  be  added  to  the  heave- 
offering  which  was  separated  when  bought  from  a  suspicious 
man,  thus :  Is  it  possible  that  the  sages  have  given  weight  to 
their  decision  equal  to  the  Scriptures  ?  (The  law  that  heave- 
offering  must  be  separated  when  bought  from  the  man  in 
question  is  only  rabbinically — would  it  not  be  enough  that  one 
should  pay  the  principal  amount  only,  if  consumed?)  Said  R. 
Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  This  Mishna  is  in  accordance 
with  R.  Meir,  who  says  elsewhere  (Erubin,  p.  181)  that  the  sages 
usually  do  so. 

MISHNA  VII. :  To  the  following  things  the  law  of  cheating 
does  not  apply :  Bondmen,  documents,  real  estate  and  property 
belonging  to  the  sanctuary ;  and  also  the  law  of  paying  the 
double  amount  and  of  four  and  five  fold  does  not  apply  to  them. 
A  gratuitous  bailee  does  not  swear  (if  lost),  and  a  bailee  for  hire 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GAIE).  133 

does  not  pay  (as  they  would  do  on  movable  common  property). 
R.  Simeon,  however,  says :  If  one  is  responsible  for  the  property 
belonging  to  the  sanctuary,  the  law  of  cheating  does  apply,  but 
not  when  he  is  not  responsible.  R.  Jehudah  said  that  there  is 
no  cheating  to  him  who  sells  holy  scrolls,  animals,  or  pearls  (the 
reason  why  will  be  explained  further  on  in  the  Gemara),  but  he 
was  told  that  there  is  nothing  to  add  to  the  things  enumerated 
above. 

GEMARA  :  Whence  is  this  deduced  ?  From  what  the  rabbis 
taught :  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxv.  14] :  "  And  if  thou  sell  aught 
unto  thy  neighbor  or  buy  aught  of  thy  neighbor's  hand,"  which 
means  things  going  from  hand  to  hand  ;  excludes  real  estate, 
which  is  not  movable,  and  also  bondsmen,  who  are  equalled  to 
real  estate ;  excludes  also  documents,  because  it  reads,  "  and  if 
thou  sell  aught,"  which  means  that  their  body  can  be  sold  and 
bought ;  excludes  documents,  which  are  made  only  for  the  eye 
and  of  which  the  contents  are  for  sale,  but  not  their  bodies  [from 
this  it  was  said  that  if  one  sells  his  documents  for  actual  use 
{i.e.,  for  wrapping),  the  law  of  cheating  does  apply.  Is  this  not 
self-evident  ?  It  was  said  to  deny  R.  Kahana's  theory  that  there 
is  no  cheating  as  to  articles  of  which  the  value  is  only  diperutha]  ; 
and  things  belonging  to  the  sanctuary,  because  the  verse  reads, 
"  From  thy  brother,"  to  exclude  the  sanctuary.  Rabba  b.  Mam- 
mal opposed :  Is,  then,  the  word  hand  everywhere  mentioned  in 
the  Scripture  literally  ?  Is  it  not  written  [Num.  xxi.  26]  :  "  From 
his  hand,"  which  is  certainly  not  literally,  but  from  his  control? 
On  the  other  hand,  can  we  then  explain  the  word  hand  every- 
where it  is  written  not  literally  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  the 
following  Boraitha :  "  It  is  written  [Exod.  xxii.  3]  :  'If  the  thing 
stolen  be  actually  found  in  his  hand,'  etc.  From  this  we  know 
when  it  was  found  in  his  hand  only.  Whence  we  deduce  that 
the  same  is  the  case  when  it  was  found  upon  his  roof,  yard, 
or  his  veranda?  Therefore  it  is  written  Himatzeh  Timatzeh, 
(literally,  '  found  was  found  '  *),  to  include  the  above."  We  see 
then,  that  if  it  were  not  for  the  superfluous  word  "  Timatzeh  " 
the  word  hand  would  be  taken  literally,  provided  that  in  such 
places  (as  cited  above)  where  it  is  impossible  to  take  it  literally  it 
is  explained  control. 

R.  Zera  questioned  :  Does  the  law  of  cheating  apply  to  a  hire? 
Shall  we  assume  that  the  Scripture  reads  sale  but  not  hire,  or 

*  Leeser  translates  according^  to  the  sense,  but  the  vers*  reads  as  we  hare  translated. 


134  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

there  is  no  difference  ?  Said  Abayi  to  him  :  Is  it  mentioned  in  the 
Scripture  "  a  sale  for  ever  "  ?  Sale  is  mentioned  anonymously, 
and  a  hire  can  also  be  called  a  sale  for  the  time  hired.  Rabha 
questioned  :  If  one  bought  wheat  and  sowed  it  in  his  field,  how  is 
the  law?  Is  it  to  be  compared  to  putting  it  in  a  vessel,  and  the 
law  of  fraud  does  apply,  or,  as  it  is  in  the  earth,  is  it  compared  to 
real  estate,  to  which  the  law  of  fraud  does  not  apply  ?  (Says  the 
Gemara :  Let  us  see  how  was  the  case  ?  If  the  buyer  said  to  the 
seller :  "  You  shall  sow  six  measures,"  and  witnesses  testify  that 
he  has  sown  only  five,  did  not  Rabha  say  elsewhere  that  everything 
with  a  measure,  weight,  or  number,  even  in  a  quantity  to  which 
the  law  of  fraud  does  not  apply,  the  cheated  may  retract  ?  The 
case  was  that  the  buyer  bought  a  quantity  of  wheat  needed  for 
his  field,  with  the  condition  that  the  seller  should  sow  it,  and 
thereafter  it  was  found  that  he  had  not  given  the  quantity  needed. 
Hence  the  doubt  to  what  case  stated  above  it  is  to  be  compared. 
This  question  remains  undecided. 

Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  H'assa  said :  R.  Ami  propounded 
the  following  question :  The  articles  mentioned  in  the  Mishna  to 
which  the  law  of  cheating  does  not  apply,  how  is  the  law  if  there 
was  fraud  to  more  than  a  sixth  of  the  value,  where  in  other  cases 
the  sale  is  abolished  ?  Is  it  the  same  with  the  things  of  the 
Mishna,  or  not  ?  Said  R,  N'ahman  :  Thereafter  the  same  R,  Hassa 
said  that  R,  Ami  resolved  his  question,  and  decided  that  only  the 
law  of  fraud  does  not  apply,  but  the  law  of  abolishing  the  sale 
applies,  R,  Yonah,  however,  concerning  things  of  the  sanctuary, 
and  R.  Jeremiah  concerning  real  estate,  both  in  the  name  of  R, 
Johanan,  declared  that  the  law  of  fraud  does  not  apply,  but  the 
law  of  abolishing  does.  [He  who  applies  Johanan's  statement  in 
regard  to  things  of  the  sanctuary,  applies  it  also  in  regard  to  real 
estate,  and  he  who  applies  it  in  regard  to  real  estate,  to  the  things 
of  the  sanctuary,  however,  does  not  apply  it,  as  Samuel  said  that 
things  belonging  to  the  sanctuary,  if  of  the  value  of  a  manah, 
were  exchanged  for  one  perutha,  the  act  is  valid,] 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following  Mishna :  "  A 
blemished  animal  belonging  to  the  sanctuary,  if  it  was  exchanged 
for  an  animal  of  a  commoner,  the  exchange  is  valid  and  the 
blemished  animal  becomes  ordinary  ;  but  if  its  value  was  more 
than  its  exchange,  the  money  must  be  added  to  the  sanctuary," 
And  R.  Johanan  in  explaining  this  Mishna  said :  It  becomes 
ordinary  biblically ;  the  money  of  its  value,  however,  which  is 
said  to  be  added,  is  rabbinically  only.     Resh  Lakish,  however, 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  135 

maintains  that  the  money  in  question  is  also  biblically.  Now  let 
us  see  how  was  the  case?  If  the  exchanging  animal  was  less  in 
value  than  the  prescribed  quality  of  cheating,  how  could  Resh 
Lakish  say  that  the  money  must  be  added  biblically  ?  Does  not 
our  Mishna  state  that  there  is  no  cheating  in  sanctuary,  and  if  it 
was  less  in  value  than  a  sixth,  how  could  R.  Johanan  say  that 
the  money  added  is  rabbinically  ?  He  himself  said  that  the  law 
of  abolishing  applies  to  it  ?  There  is  a  case  of  cheating,  and 
they  differ  if  the  explanation  of  the  statement,  "  the  law  of 
cheating  does  not  apply."  Should  it  be  explained  as  R.  Hisda 
interprets  it,  that  the  Mishna,  with  the  expression  "  there  is  no 
cheating,"  means  the  prescribed  quality  of  it  does  not  apply,  even 
if  it  were  less  than  the  prescribed  quality  it  may  also  be  abolished. 

Another  objection  was  raised :  "  The  laws  of  usury  and 
cheating  apply  only  to  commoners,  but  not  to  the  sanctuary?" 
Should  this  Boraitha  have  more  weight  than  our  Mishna,  which 
was  explained  that  it  means  the  prescribed  quality  of  it  ?  Inter- 
pret, then,  this  Boraitha  in  the  same  manner,  namely  :  Usury  and 
the  prescribed  quality  do  not  apply  to  the  sanctuary.  If  so,  how 
should  the  latter  part  of  it  be  understood  ?  This  is  more  rigorous 
in  the  case  of  a  commoner  than  in  the  case  of  the  sanctuary  (and 
as  you  interpret,  then  the  reverse  is  the  case).  This  statement 
applies  to  usury  only.  But  then  it  should  state  :  Regarding  cheat- 
ing, however,  the  reverse  is  the  case  ?  What  question  is  it  ?  It  is 
correct  to  say  that  this  is  more  rigorous  in  case  of  a  commoner, 
etc.,  as  this  is  the  only  case  ;  but  regarding  the  sanctuary,  is,  then, 
this  the  only  case  in  which  it  is  rigorous  ?  All  cases  of  the  sanc- 
tuary are  rigorous. 

'^Double  amount,'  etc.  Whence  is  this  deduced?  As  the 
rabbis  taught :  It  is  written  [Exod.  xxii.  8] :  "  For  all  manner 
of  trespass  " — that  is,  generally  ;  "for  an  ox,  for  an  ass,  for  a 
lamb,  for  raiment  " — that  h,  partis  (a  special  part) ;  "  or  for  any 
manner  of  lost  thing  " — it  is  again  general.  And  there  is  a  rule 
that  when  there  is  in  the  Scripture  a  general,  a  partis,  and  again 
a  general,  it  must  be  judged  similar  to  the  partis,  as  the  partis 
mentioned  is  a  movable  thing,  and  its  body  is  of  value.  So  also 
all  movable  things  the  bodies  of  which  have  a  value ;  excluded 
being  real  estate,  which  is  not  movable,  and  also  bondmen,  who 
are  equal  to  real  estate,  and  also  documents,  of  which,  although 
they  are  movable,  the  bodies  are  of  no  value.  And  concerning 
the  sanctuary  there  is  another  verse,  which  reads,  "  his  neighbor," 
and  the  sanctuary  cannot  be  considered  a  neighbor. 


136  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

''And  of  four  and  five  foldy  etc.  Why  so?  Because  the 
Merciful  One  says  payment  of  four  and  five  fold,  but  not  the 
payment  of  three  and  four  (/>.,  as  the  double  amount  is  ex- 
cluded, it  would  be  for  a  sheep  threefold  and  for  an  ox  fourfold, 
as  explained  in  First  Gate,  page       ). 

''A  gratuitous  bailee,''  etc.  Whence  is  this  deduced?  As 
the  rabbis  taught :  It  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.,  6]  :  "  If  a  man  do 
deliver  unto  his  neighbor,"  generally ;  "  money  or  vessels,"  partis; 
"  to  keep,"  again  generally  ;  and  there  is  a  rule  that  when  there 
is  in  the  Scripture  a  general,  a  partis,  and  again  a  general,  etc. 
(as  explained  above). 

"■A  bailee  for  hire,''  etc.  (The  same  question,  "Whence  is  it 
deduced  ?  "  and  the  same  answer  from  the  same  verse  cited  is 
repeated  here.) 

(Again)  "  A  bailee  for  hire,"  etc.  R.  Joseph  b.  Hama  raised  the 
following  contradiction  to  Rabba :  In  our  Mishna  it  is  stated  that 
a  bailee  for  hire  does  not  pay.  Is  this  not  a  contradiction  to  the 
following  Tosephta  (Sabbath,  xix.) :  "  If  one  hires  an  employee  to 
take  care  of  his  cow  or  child  or  his  seeds,  he  has  not  to  pay  him 
for  the  day  of  Sabbath ;  and,  therefore,  if  an  accident  happens 
on  Sabbath,  the  bailee  is  not  responsible.  If,  however,  he  was 
hired  for  the  week,  month,  or  year,  the  payment  for  the  Sabbath- 
days  is  not  to  be  excluded ;  and,  therefore,  if  an  accident  hap- 
pens on  the  Sabbath-day,  he  is  responsible."  Is  it  not  meant 
that  he  must  pay  (hence,  it  contradicts  our  Mishna,  which  states 
that  in  cases  of  consecrated  things  he  does  not  pay)  ?  And  he 
answered  :  Nay  ;  i.e.,  he  loses  the  payment  for  that  day.  If  so, 
then  the  statement  in  the  first  part,  that  he  is  not  responsible, 
means  also  that  he  does  not  lose.  Has  he,  then,  anything  to 
lose — is  it  not  stated  plainly  that  he  is  not  paid  for  that  day  ? 
And  Rabba  kept  silent.  Then  Rabba  asked  him :  "  Have  you 
heard  something  in  explanation  of  the  Tosephta  in  question?" 
And  he  answered  :  "  So  said  R.  Shesheth  :  it  treats  when  so  was 
the  agreement  that  the  bailee  should  pay  in  case  something 
happened  ;  and  the  same  said  R.  Johanan." 

"  R.  Jehudah  said,"  etc.  There  is  a  Boraitha  in  addition  to 
our  Mishna.  R.  Jehudah  said  :  Also,  by  him  who  sells  holy 
scrolls  there  is  no  cheating,  for  there  is  no  fixed  price  of  their 
value  ;  and  as  to  an  animal  or  pearl,  there  is  no  cheating,  as  they 
(single  ones)  are  usually  bought  for  the  purpose  of  matching  in 
pairs.  And  it  was  said  to  him  that  all  things  are  bought  for  the 
same  purpose  (consequently  no  exception   is  to  be  made).     R. 


TRACT    BABA   METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  137 

Jehudah,  however,  maintains  that  the  above-named  things  better 
answer  this  purpose.  But  in  respect  to  what  quality  cheating  is  not 
to  be  considered  ?  Said  Ameimar  :  To  the  double  amount  of  its 
value  (but  no  more).  There  is  also  a  Boraitha  :  R.  Jehudah  b. 
Bathyra  says  that  also  with  him  who  sells  a  horse,  a  sword,  and  a 
shield  in  war-time,  no  cheating  is  considered,  as  there  is  a  ques- 
tion of  life. 

MISHNA  VIII. :  As  cheating  is  prohibited  in  buying  or 
selling,  so  it  is  in  words.  (How  so  ?)  One  must  not  ask  the  price 
of  a  thing  when  he  does  not  intend  to  buy  it.  To  a  person  who 
has  repented  one  must  not  say,  Remember  your  former  acts.  To 
a  descendant  from  proselytes  one  must  not  say,  Remember  the 
acts  of  your  parents.  As  it  is  written  [Exod.  xxii.  20]  :  "  And  a 
stranger  *  thou  shalt  not  vex,  nor  shalt  thou  oppress  him," 

GEMARA  :  The  rabbis  taught :  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxv.  17]  : 
"  And  ye  shall  not  overreach  one  the  other " — this  means,  in 
words.  But  perhaps  it  means  in  business  ?  It  is  already  written 
[ibid.,  ibid.,  14]  concerning  business.  Hence  this  verse  must  apply 
to  words  only.  How  so  ?  To  a  person  who  has  repented  one 
must  not  say.  Remember  your  former  acts.  To  a  descendant  of 
proselytes  one  must  not  say.  Remember  the  acts  of  your  parents. 
If  a  proselyte  comes  to  learn  the  Torah,  one  shall  not  say, 
The  mouth  that  hath  eaten  carcasses,  etc.,  should  utter  the  words 
Torah,  which  was  pronounced  by  the  mouth  of  the  Almighty. 
To  a  person  who  suffers  from  chastisements,  sickness,  or  burying 
his  children,  one  must  not  say,  as  Job's  colleagues  said  to  him 
[Job,  iv.  6,  7]  :  "  Is  not,  then,  thy  fear  of  God  still  thy  confidence, 
thy  hope  equal  to  the  integrity  of  thy  ways  ?  Remember,  I  pray 
thee,  who  ever  perished,  being  innocent?  or  where  were  the 
righteous  destroyed  ?  "  Also,  one  must  not  send  people  to  any 
one,  telling  them  that  he  is  a  grain  seller,  who  never  was  so. 
R.  Jehudah  says :  One  must  also  not  inquire  the  price  of  an 
article,  having  no  money  to  pay,  as  all  that  refers  to  his  heart, 
and  in  such  a  thing  it  is  said, "  Thou  shalt  fear  thy  God." 

Said  R.  Johanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Johai:  Cheat- 
ing in  words  is  more  rigorous  than  cheating  in  money.  As  to 
the  former,  it  is  written,  "  Thou  shalt  fear  thy  God,"  and  as  to 
the  latter  it  is  not  written  so.  And  R.  Elazar  says :  The  former 
is  to  his  body  and  the  latter  to  his  money.     R.  Samuel  b.  Na'h« 

*  The  Hebrew  expression  for  this  word  is  "  Gher,"  which  has  two  meanings 
froselyle  and  stranger. 


138  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

meni  says  :  The  latter  can  be  returned,  but  the  former  cannot, 
A  disciple  has  taught  before  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itzhak  :  One  who 
abuses  his  neighbor  publicly  is  compared  to  a  shedder  of  blood. 
And  he  answered :  Your  statement  is  correct,  as  we  see  in  the 
man  who  becomes  ashamed,  the  red  color  of  his  face  disappears 
and  he  becomes  white. 

Said  Abayi  to  R.  Dimi :  To  what  thing  do  the  Western  peo- 
ple pay  more  attention  ?  And  he  answered  :  To  make  pale  the 
face  {i.e.,  putting  people  to  shame).  As  R.  Hanina  said  :  All  de- 
scend to  Gehenna,  except  three.  All !  Is  it  possible  ?  Say,  All 
who  descend  to  Gehenna  return  thence,  except  the  following 
three,  who  descend  and  do  not  return :  An  adulterer,  one  who 
makes  pale  the  face  of  his  neighbor  in  public,  and  one  who  ap- 
plies vile  names  to  his  neighbor.  But  is  it  not  the  same  as 
making  pale  his  face  ?  i.e.,  even  when  he  was  already  used  to  be 
named  so. 

Said  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  It  is  re- 
warded more  leniently  that  one  commit  a  doubtful  adultery  than 
to  make  pale  the  face  of  his  neighbor.  Whence  is  it  taken  ? 
From  Rabha's  lecture,  thus:  It  is  written  [Psalms,  xxxv.  15]: 
"  But  in  my  downfall  they  rejoiced,  and  gathered  themselves 
together  .  .  .  they  did  tear  me,  and  ceased  not."  Thus  said 
David  before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He  :  "  Lord  of  the  Uni- 
verse, it  is  known  before  thee  that  if  they  would  tear  my  flesh  the 
blood  would  not  run.  Even  when  they  are  occupied  in  the  study 
of  Negaim  and  Ahaloth  they  said  to  me,  David,  who  is  an  adul- 
terer, with  what  kind  of  a  death  must  he  be  punished  ?  And  I 
answered  them,  He  is  to  be  hanged :  he,  however,  has  a  share  in 
the  world  to  come,  but  he  who  makes  pale  the  face  of  his  neigh- 
bor publicly  has  no  more  any  share  in  the  world  to  come." 

Mar  Zutra  b.  Tubia  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  according  to  others 
R.  Hana  b.  Bizna  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  the  Pious,  and  still 
to  others  R.  Johanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Johai,  said  : 
It  is  better  that  one  throw  himself  in  a  burning  furnace  than  to 
make  pale  the  face  of  his  neighbor  publicly.  And  this  is  taken 
from  the  act  of  Tamar,  as  it  is  written  [Gen.  xxxviii.  25]  :  "  When 
she  was  led  forth,  she  sent  to  her  father-in-law,"  etc. 

Rabh  said  :  One  should  be  careful  with  his  wife,  not  to  deceive 
her  even  in  words,  for  often  her  tears  hasten  the  punishment.  R. 
Elazar  said  :  Since  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  the  gates  of 
prayer  are  closed.  As  it  is  written  [Lamentations,  iii.  8]  :  "  Also 
when  I  cry  aloud  and  make  entreaty,  he  shutteth  out  my  prayer." 


TRACT    BABA   METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  139 

However,  the  gates  of  tears  were  not  closed.  As  it  is  written 
[Psalms,  xxxix.  13]  :  "  Be  not  silent  at  my  tears." 

Rabh  said  again  :  He  who  follows  the  advice  of  his  wife  falls 
into  Gehenna.  As  it  is  written  [I  Kings,  xxi.  25]  :  "  But  indeed 
there  was  none  like  unto  Achab  ...  to  which  his  wife  incited 
him."  Said  R.  Papa  to  Abayi :  Is  that  so — do  not  people  say : 
"  If  thy  wife  is  little,  bow  thyself  and  listen  to  her  advice  ?  " 
This  presents  no  difficulty.  Rabh  speaks  about  worldly  affairs, 
and  the  people's  saying  is  about  house  affairs.  According  to 
others,  Rabh  speaks  of  heavenly  affairs  and  the  others  about 
worldly  affairs.  R.  Hisda  said :  All  gates  are  closed  for  prayers 
except  for  him  who  cries  upon  cheating.  As  it  is  written  [Amos, 
vii.  7]  :  "  Behold,  the  Lord  was  standing  upon  the  wall  of  Attach, 
and  in  his  hand  was  an  Anach."  *  Said  R.  Elazar :  All  sinners 
are  punished  through  a  messenger,  except  the  cheater,  who  is 
punished  by  the  Lord  himself,  as  it  reads :  "  And  the  Anach  is  in 
His  hand."  R.  Abuhu  said  :  For  the  following  three  the  peti- 
tion of  the  Shekhina  is  not  shut :  Cheating,  robbery,  and  idolatry. 
Cheating,  as  mentioned  above — "Anach  in  His  hand;  "  robbery, 
as  it  is  written  [Jer.  vi.  7]  :  "  Violence  and  robbery  are  heard  in 
her ;  in  my  presence  there  are  continually  disease  and  wounds ;  " 
and  idolatry,  as  it  is  written  [Isaiah,  Ixv.  3]  :  "  The  people  that 
provoke  me  to  anger  to  my  face  continually." 

R.  Jehudah  said  :  One  should  always  be  careful  about  grain  in 
his  house,  as  the  quarrel  in  the  house  comes  often  about  the  grain. 
As  it  is  written  [Psalms,  cxlvii.]  :  "  He  who  bestoweth  peace  in 
thy  borders,  who  satisfieth  thee  with  the  best  of  wheat."  Said 
R.  Papa  :  This  is  what  people  say,  "  When  the  barley  is  out  of 
the  barrel,  the  quarrel  knocks  at  the  door."  And  R.  Hinna  b. 
Papa  also  said :  One  should  always  be  careful  about  grain  in  his 
house,  as  Israel  was  called  poor  only  because  of  grain.  As  it  is 
written  [Judges,  vi.  3-6] :  "  And  it  was  when  Israel  had  sown, 
etc.  .  .  .  And  they  encamped  against  them  .  .  .  and 
Israel  was  greatly  impoverished." 

R.  H'albo  said :  One  should  always  be  careful  with  the  honof 
of  his  wife,  as  the  blessing  in  the  house  usually  comes  for  the  sake 
of  the  wife.  As  it  is  written  [Gen.  xii.  16]  :  "And  he  did  well  to 
Abram  for  her  sake."  And  this  is  what  Rabha  used  to  say  to 
the  inhabitants  of  his  town,  Mahuza :  Revere  your  wives,  for  the 
purpose  of  becoming  rich. 

*  The  term  for  cheating  in  Hebrew  is  Onaak,  hence  the  analogy  of  Anach. 


Uo  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

There  is  a  Mishna  (Keilim,  V.,  lo)  which  treats  of  an  oven  which 
R.  Eliezer  makes  clean  and  the  sages  unclean,  and  it  is  the  oven  of 
a  snake*  What  does  this  mean  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name 
of  Samuel :  It  intimates  that  they  encircled  it  with  their  evi- 
dences as  a  snake  winds  itself  around  an  object.  And  a  Boraitha 
states  that  R.  Eliezer  related  all  answers  of  the  world  and  they 
were  not  accepted.  Then  he  said  :  Let  this  carob-tree  prove  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  as  I  state,  and  the  carob  was  (miraculously) 
thrown  off  to  a  distance  of  one  hundred  ells,  and  according  to 
others  four  hundred  ells.  But  they  said  :  The  carob  proves  noth- 
ing. He  again  said  :  "  Let,  then,  the  spring  of  water  prove  that  so 
the  Halakha  prevails."  The  water  then  began  to  run  backwards. 
But  again  the  sages  said  that  this  proved  nothing.  He  again 
said  :  "  Then,  let  the  walls  of  the  college  prove  that  I  am  right." 
The  walls  were  about  to  fall.  R.  Joshua,  however,  rebuked 
them,  saying  :  "  If  the  scholars  of  this  college  are  discussing  upon 
a  Halakha,  wherefore  should  ye  interfere  !  "  They  did  not  fall, 
for  the  honor  of  R.  Joshua,  but  they  did  not  become  again 
straight,  for  the  honor  of  R.  Eliezer  [and  they  are  still  in  the  same 
condition].  He  said  again  :  Let  it  be  announced  by  the  heav- 
ens that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  my  statement,  and  a 
heavenly  voice  was  heard,  saying :  Why  do  you  quarrel  with  R. 
Eliezer,  who  is  always  right  in  his  decisions !  R.  Joshua  then 
arose  and  proclaimed  [Deut.  xxx.  12]:  "The  Law  is  not  in  the 
heavens."  [How  is  this  to  be  understood?  said  R.  Jeremiah  :  It 
means,  the  Torah  was  given  already  to  us  on  the  mountain  of 
Sinai,  and  we  do  not  care  for  a  heavenly  voice,  as  it  reads  [Exod. 
xxiii.  2]  :  "  To  incHne  after  the  majority."  R.  Nathan  met  Elijah 
(the  Prophet)  and  questioned  him :  "  What  did  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  at  that  time?"  (when  R.  Joshua  proclaimed  the 
above  answer  to  the  heavenly  voice),  and  he  rejoined  :  "  He 
laughed  and  said.  My  children  have  overruled  me,  my  children 
have  overruled  me."]  It  was  said  that  on  the  same  day  all  the 
cases  of  purity,  on  which  R.  Eliezer  decided  that  they  were  clean, 
were  brought  into  the  college  and  were  destroyed  by  fire.  And 
they  cast  a  vote,  and  it  was  decided  unanimously  to  bless  him  (to 
place  him  under  the  ban).  The  question  arose,  then,  who  should 
take  the  trouble  to  inform  him,  and  R.  Aqiba  said  :  "  I  will  do  so 
immediately,  for  one  who  is  not  fit  for  such  a  message  may  go 

*  The  expression  in  text  is  the  oven  of  Akhnai,  which  means  inChaldaic  snake. 
Thosphat,  however,  maintains  that  the  man  who  made  the  oven  was  named  Akhnm, 


TRACT   BABA    METZIA   (MIDDLE   GATE).  141 

and  inform  him  suddenly,  and  he  will  destroy  the  world."  What 
did  R.  Aqiba  ?  He  dressed  himself  in  black  and  wrapped  him- 
self with  the  same  color,  and  sat  at  a  distance  of  four  ells  from 
R.  EHezer.  And  to  his  question  :  "  Aqiba,  what  is  the  matter?" 
he  answered  :  "  Rabbi !  it  seems  to  me  that  your  colleagues  have 
separated  themselves  from  you."  The  rabbi  then  tore  his  gar- 
ments, took  off  his  shoes,  and  sat  on  the  floor,  and  his  eyes  began 
to  flow.  The  world  was  then  beaten  a  third  in  olives,  a  third  in 
wheat,  and  a  third  in  barley.  According  to  others,  even  the 
dough  which  was  already  in  the  hands  of  the  women  became 
spoiled.  A  Boraitha  states  that  that  day  was  the  severest  of  all 
days,  as  every  place  on  which  R.  EUezer  had  set  his  eyes  was 
burned.  And  also  Rabban  Gamaliel,  who  had  at  that  time  been 
sailing,  was  in  danger  of  drowning  by  a  tempest,  and  he  said  :  "  It 
seems  to  me  that  this  storm  is  because  of  R.  Eliezer  b.  Hurka- 
nus."  He  then  arose  and  prayed  :  "  Lord  of  the  Universe,  it  is 
open  and  known  before  thee  that  not  for  the  sake  of  my  honor 
or  the  honor  of  my  parents  I  acted  so,  but  for  thy  glory,  to 
prevent  a  quarrel  in  Israel."     And  the  sea  then  became  quiet. 

Eima  Shalum,  the  wife  of  R.  Eliezer,  was  a  sister  of  Rabban 
Gamaliel,  and  since  that  time  she  prevented  her  husband  from 
falling  upon  his  face.*  It  happened,  however,  in  a  day  which  was 
the  last  of  the  month,  and  she  erred,  thinking  that  this  day  was 
the  first  of  the  month  (in  which  the  falling  upon  the  face  is  not  cus- 
tomary^'). According  to  others,  a  poor  man  knocked  at  the  door  and 
she  was  going  to  give  him  some  bread,  and  when  she  returned  she 
found  her  husband  falling  on  his  face,  and  she  said  to  him  :  "  Arise, 
you  have  already  killed  my  brother !  "  In  the  meantime  it  was 
heralded  by  the  house  of  Rabban  Gamaliel  that  he  was  dead,  and 
to  the  question  R.  Eliezer  asked  her :  "  Whence  did  you  know 
this?"  she  answered  :  "  I  have  a  tradition  from  the  house  of  my 
grandfather  that  all  gates  are  closed  for  prayers,  except  for  him 
who  cries  upon  cheating." 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  He  who  cheats  a  stranger  transgresses 
three  negative  commandments,  and  he  who  oppresses  him  trans- 
gresses two."  Let  us  see.  Regarding  cheating  there  are  three 
negative  commandments  [Exod.  xxii.  20,  Lev.  xix.  33  and  ibid. 
XXV.  17],  as  the  expression  "the  other"  includes  a  stranger  also. 
Then  there  are  three  negative  commandments  concerning  oppres- 

*  There  was  a.  custom  of  falling  upon  the  face  at  a  certain  prayer  daily,  except  00 
half-ho'idays,  as  Chanukah,  Purim,  and  New-moon. 


142  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

sion  also — namely,  Exod.  xxii.  20,  xxiii.  9,  and  ibid.  xxii.  24 — 
which  include  also  the  stranger.  Hence  there  are  three  negative 
commandments  in  oppression  also  ?  Read,  then,  in  both  cases  : 
He  transgresses  three  negative  commandments. 

We  have  learnt  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Eliezer  the  Great  said  : 
Why  does  the  Scripture  in  thirty-six,  according  to  others  in  forty- 
six  places,  warn  concerning  strangers?  Because  they  are  of  a 
mischievous  nature.*  Why  is  there  added  [Exod.  xxii.  20], 
"  for  strangers  ye  were  in  the  land  of  Egypt  "  ?  There  is  a  Bo- 
raitha :  R.  Nathan  says  :  Do  not  rebuke  your  neighbor  for  a  similar 
blemish  to  that  you  have  on  your  body  ;  and  this  is  what  people 
say  :  To  him  who  has  had  a  hanged  one  in  his  family,  do  not  even 
mention  hang  up  a  fish. 

MISHNA  IX. :  One  must  not  mix  together  fruits  from  two 
separate  fields,  if  the  seller  has  named  the  field  of  which  the  fruits 
were  to  be  issued  ;  and  even  when  the  fruits  of  both  are  new,  much 
less  old  with  new.  In  reality,  it  was  said  of  wine  that  it  is  allowed 
to  mix  old  with  new,  when  the  new  was  sold,  because  the  old  im- 
proves the  new.  However,  one  must  not  mix  the  yeast  of  one 
wine  with  another  wine,  but  he  may  give  him  the  yeast  of  the  same. 
If  the  wine  was  mixed  with  water,  he  must  not  sell  in  his  store, 
provided  he  informed  the  buyers ;  not  to  a  merchant,  however, 
even  if  he  informed  him,  for  he  buys  only  for  the  purpose  of  cheat- 
ing. In  the  places  where  it  is  customary  to  mix  water  with  wine, 
he  may  do  so.  A  merchant  may  buy  grain  from  five  barns  and 
place  it  in  one  store-room  ;  he  may  also  buy  wine  from  five  presses 
and  put  it  in  one  cask,  but  not  with  the  intention  of  mixing  it. 

GEMARA  :  The  rabbis  taught :  "  It  is  not  necessary  to  state, 
if  the  new  was  sold  four  measures  for  one  sala  and  the  old  three 
measures  only  that  they  must  not  be  mixed  (if  he  sold  him  old 
ones),  as  this  would  be  plain  cheating ;  but  even  when  the  reverse 
is  the  case,  he  must  also  not  do  so,  as  usually  one  buys  it  to  keep 
for  a  long  time  (the  new  becomes  old  and  the  old — spoiled).'" 

"/«  reality,  it  was  said,"  etc.  R.  Elazar  said:  Ada  was  the 
one  who  said  that  wherever  the  expression  "  in  reality  "  is  stated, 
it  means  that  so  the  Halakha  prevails.  Said  R.  Na'hman  :  The 
Mishna  treats  of  a  case  in  which  it  was  done  in  the  time  of  wine- 
pressing,  as  in  that  time  the  wine  is  fermenting,  and  therefore  it 
is  improving ;  but  after  the  time  is  over,  it  spoils.  But  now  it  is 
customary  to  mix  it,  even  not  at  that  time.     Said  R.  Papa :  It  is 

*An  explanation  to  this  will  be  found  in  Tract  Hrajoth. 


TRACT    BABA    METZIA    (MIDDLE    GATE).  143 

because  people  are  aware  of  it,  and  relinquish  their  right.  R. 
Aha  b.  R.  Ika  said :  They  do  in  accordance  with  R.  Aha  of  the 
following  Boraitha,  who  permits  to  mix  beverages  which  are  to  be 
tasted,  as  the  buyer  recognizes  if  mixed. 

"  But  he  may  give  him  the  yeast  of  the  same*'  etc.  But  is  it  not 
stated  in  the  first  part  that  it  must  not  be  mixed  at  all  ?  And  lest 
one  say  that  the  Mishna  means  he  shall  inform  him,  this  would 
not  hold  good,  as  is  stated  in  the  latter  part,  he  shall  not  sell  it  in 
his  store  provided  he  informed  the  buyer,  from  which  it  is  to  be 
inferred  that  the  first  part  treats  even  when  not  informed.  Said 
R.  Jehudah,  it  means  to  say  thus :  One  must  not  mix  the  yeast  of 
yesterday  with  the  wine  of  to-day,  and  vice  versa  ;  he  may,  how- 
ever, give  him  the  yeast  of  the  same.  We  have  also  learnt  this 
in  the  following  Boraitha :  "  R.  Jehudah  said :  He  who  pours 
wine  for  his  neighbor  must  not  mix  wine  from  yesterday  with  that 
of  to-day,  and  vice  versa,  but  he  may  do  so  with  the  wines  of  the 
same  day." 

"If  water  was  mixed,''  etc.  It  happened  that  wine  was 
brought  to  Rabha  from  a  store;  he  mixed  it,  tasted,  and  it  was 
not  sweet,  and  he  returned  it  to  the  store.  Said  Abayi  to  him  : 
"  Did  not  our  Mishna  state  that  he  must  not  furnish  it  to  a 
merchant,  even  if  he  was  informed  "  (how,  then,  did  you  return 
the  mixed  wine  to  the  merchant)  ?  And  he  answered  :  "  The 
wine  which  I  mixed  is  easily  distinguished  (because  I  make  it 
very  weak),  and  lest  one  say  that  the  store-keeper  would  add 
wine  to  it  so  that  the  water  will  not  be  recognized,  then  it  would 
be  prohibited  to  sell  even  plain  water  to  a  wine-merchant,  lest  he 
mix  it  with  wine." 

"  In  the  places  where  it  is  customary,"  etc.  A  Boraitha  in 
addition  to  our  Mishna  states  that  he  may  mix  a  half,  a  third,  or 
a  quarter,  as  is  customary  in  that  city.  Said  Rabh  :  The  Mishna, 
however,  treats  of  the  time  of  wine-pressing  (but  not  otherwise). 

MISHNA  X. :  R.  Jehudah  said :  A  store-keeper  must  not 
furnish  little  children  with  presents  of  nuts,  etc.,  because  he  ac- 
customs them  to  buy  all  their  needs  at  his  place.  The  sages, 
however,  permit  this.  He  also  prohibits  to  lower  the  prices,  for 
the  above  reason.  The  sages,  however,  say  that  people  may  be 
grateful  for  such  an  act.  A  store-keeper  must  not  take  off  the 
shells  of  beans,  in  order  to  raise  the  price  more  than  if  they 
remained  in  the  shells.  The  sages,  however,  permit  (as  the 
buyer  usually  knows  the  difference  of  the  prices).  They,  how- 
ever, agree  that  one  must  not  do  so  with  the  top  of  the  measure 


144  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

only,  for  he  deceives  the  eye  (as  the  buyer  may  think  that  the 
contents  of  the  whole  measure  is  so).  The  embellishment  of 
articles  which  are  to  be  sold,  e.g.^  slaves,  animals,  or  vessels,  is 
forbidden  (further  on,  the  meaning). 

GEMARA :  What  is  the  reason  of  the  rabbis  who  permit  to 
give  presents  to  children  ?  Because  the  store-keeper  may  say  to 
his  competitor  :  "  I  distribute  nuts ;  you  may  do  so  with  plums." 

"  To  lower  the  prices^'  etc.  For  what  reason  do  the  rabbis 
permit  this  ?  Because  he  influences  the  wholesaler  to  lower  his 
prices  also. 

*'  To  take  off  the  shells,'*  etc.  Who  are  the  sages  mentioned 
in  the  Mishna  ?  R.  Aha  of  the  Boraitha,  who  permits  to  do  so 
with  visible  things. 

"  The  embellishment  of,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught :  "  One  must 
not  brush  up  an  animal's  hair  to  give  it  a  delusive  appearance  of 
fatness,  or  make  it  drink  water  of  bran-flour,  which  causes  its  hair 
to  be  so."* 

It  is  also  not  allowed  to  blow  up  entrails  (for  sale,  to  give 
them  a  delusive  appearance),  also  not  to  soak  meat  in  water  (for 
the  purpose  of  increasing  the  weight).  Samuel  has  permitted  to 
put  silk  fringes  on  a  mantle  (so  as  to  make  it  appear  more  woolly). 
R.  Jehudah  did  so  with  fine  clothes,  to  gloss  them  by  rubbing 
with  a  substance,  Rabba  permitted  to  press  hemp  garments, 
and  Rabha  to  paint  arrows,  and  R.  Papa  baskets  {i.e.,  to  give 
them  a  better  appearance).  But  does  not  our  Mishna  state  that 
embellishment  for  slaves  and  animals  is  not  allowed  ?  This  pre- 
sents no  difficulty :  new  ones  are  to  be  embellished,  but  old  ones 
are  not  allowed,  as  they  may  get  a  new  appearance  (and  the 
buyer  will  be  cheated). 

Concerning  slaves,  what  embellishment  can  be  done  ?  As  it 
happened,  one  old  slave  painted  his  hair  and  beard  and  came  to 
Rabha  that  he  should  buy  him.  And  Rabha  answered  him  : 
**  Let  thy  house  be  open  for  the  poor  "  {i.e.,  I  have  the  service  of 
the  house  done  by  poor  men).  When  he  came  to  R.  Papa  b. 
Samuel,  he  bought  him.  One  day  he  told  him  to  bring  a  drink 
of  water,  and  he  washed  away  the  paint  and  told  him :  "  See,  I 
am  older  than  your  father  ;"  and  R.  Papa  read  to  himself  the 
following  verse  [Proverbs,  xi.  8]  :  "  The  righteous  is  delivered 
out  of  distress,  and  another  cometh  in  his  stead." 


*  The  term  in  the  Boraitha  is  mesharbtin,  and  as  to  the  question  of  its  mtanins, 
Zera  in  the  name  of  R.  Kahana  gives  the  former,  and  some  other  the  latter. 


imuaiiniuiiuiuiiiiivuuii- 


