tihxaxy  of  Che  trheolo^icd  ^tminavy 

PRINCETON  •  NEW  JERSEY 


PRESENTED  BY 

John  Stuart  Conning,   D.D 

Talmud. 

New  edition  of  the 
Babylonian  Talmud 


NEW  EDITION 


OF  THE 


BABYLONIAN  TALMUD 


iS^rtginal  Uejt,  ]e^tte^,  Correcte^,  fformulateb,  anb 
XTranslateb  into  Bngltsb 


BV 

MICHAEL   L.  RODKINSON 


SECTION   MOED  (FESTIVALS) 
TRACTS    BETZAH,   SUCCAH,    AND    MOED    KATAN 


Volume  VIL 


Boston 
THE  TALMUD  SOCIETY 

1918 


EXPLANATORY    REMARKS, 

In  our  translation  we  adopted  these  principles: 

1.  Tenan  of  the  original — We  have  learned  in  a  Mishna;  Tania — We  hav^ 
learned  in  a  Boraitha;  Itemar — It  was  taught. 

2.  Questions  are  indicated  by  the  interrogation  point,  and  are  immediately 
followed  by  the  answers,  without  being  so  marked. 

3.  When  in  the  original  there  occur  two  statements  separated  by  the  phrase, 
Lishna  achrena  or  IVaibayith  Aema  ox  Ikha  ^'a/z/rz  (literally,  "otherwise  interpreted '"), 
we  translate  only  the  second. 

4.  As  the  pages  of  the  original  are  indicated  in  our  new  Hebrew  edition,  it  is  not 
deemed  necessary  to  mark  them  in  the  English  edition,  this  being  only  a  translation 
from  the  latter. 

5.  Words  or  passages  enclosed  in  round  parentheses  (  )  denote  the  explanation 
rendered  by  Rashi  to  the  foregoing  sentence  or  word.  Square  parentheses  [  ]  contain 
commentaries  by  authorities  of  the  last  period  of  construction  of  the  Gemara. 


Copyright,  1903,  bv 
MICHAEL  L.  RODKTNSON, 


Copyright  1916,  by 
NEW  TALMUD  PUBLISHING  SOCIETY 


TO 

LOUIS   STERN,  Esq. 

IN    RECOGNITION    OF    HIS    MANY    PHILANTHROPIC    DEEDS    AND 

VALUABLE    SERVICES    IN    THE    CAUSE    OF    JUDAISM 

AND    ITS   LITERATURE 

THIS   BOOK    IS    MOST    RESPECTFULLY    DEDICATED 
BY    THE    EDITOR 

MICHAEL    L.  RODKINSON 


New  York,  Friday  noy3  :'"?,  April  28th,  189Q. 


TO  THE   READER. 


This  volume  contains  three  tracts,  in  order  to  maintain  some 
uniformity  in  the  size  of  the  volumes,*  whereas  in  former  issues 
one  subject  required  three  volumes  and  another  one  volume, 
while  in  two  instances  each  of  two  volumes  treated  of  two 
different  subjects ;  viz.,  three  volumes  being  devoted  to  subject 
Sabbath  (including  Erubin),  one  volume  to  Passover,  one  to 
the  Half-shekels  (Shekalim — which  were  to  be  given  in  the  be- 
ginning of  each  year)  and  New  Year,  one  to  the  Day  of  Atone- 
ment (including  also  the  Holocausts  for  the  Altar).  Of  the 
three  tracts  now  presented,  Tract  Succah  treats  of  the  Booth, 
Palm  Branches,  Citrons,  etc.,  and  specially  appertains  to  the 
Feast  of  Tabernacles,  the  other  two  treating  of  the  laws  and 
regulations  as  to  festivals  in  general ;  viz.,  Yom  Tob  (literally 
"  Good  Days ")  of  all  festivals,  including  also  the  New  Year 
and  Moed  Katan  (Minor  Festivals)  of  the  middle  days  between 
the  first  and  seventh  days  of  Passover  and  between  the  first 
and  eighth  days  of  Tabernacles. 

As  to  the  treatment  of  the  semi-festivals,  viz.,  Hanukka  and 
Purim — the  former  is  included  in  Tract  Sabbath,  Volume  I.,  and 
the  latter,  which  has  a  tract  to  itself,  named  ''  Megilah,"  or 
*'  Book  of  Esther,"  is  to  appear  in  the  next  and  last  volume  of 
this  section,  and  contains  Taanith  (the  Regulation  of  Fast  Days), 
Megilah  (which  is  to  be  read  while  fasting),  and,  finally,  Ebel 
Rabbathi  (Great  Mourning),  which  is  also  called  *'  Sema'hoth  " 
(Joys)  for  reasons  which  will  be  explained  in  our  introduction 
to  it. 

We  do  not  at  present  say  more  about  the  tracts  of  this  sec- 
tion, as  it  is  our  intention  to  make  further  comment  on  them  in 
our  next  volume. 

New  York,  A/>ri/,  1899. 


*  Each  tract,  however,  is  paged  separately,  for  the  reason  stated  in  Introduction 
to  Vol.  VI.,  p.  xvi. 


TRACT  BETZAH  OR  YOM  TOB  (FEAST  DAYS) 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

To  THE  Reader, v 

Synopsis  of  Subjects  of  Vol.  VII. — Tract  Betzah,  .        .       xi 


CHAPTER   I. 

Regulations  concerning  Eatables  and  Beverages:  Prep- 
arations  FROM    the    First  Day  of  Festivals  to  the 
'    Second,    from    the    Festivals   to    the    Sabbath,  and 
Vice  Versa, i 


CHAPTER   II. 

Regulations   concerning  the    Combining  of  Cookery  on 

A  Festival  preceding  a  Sabbath, 28 


CHAPTER    III. 

Regulations  concerning  Fishing  and   Hunting    on    Fes- 
tivals,          46 

CHAPTER   IV. 

Regulations   concerning    the    Carrying    and  Handling 

of  Things  on  the  Festival, 60 


CHAPTER   V. 

Regulations  concerning  Labors  Permitted  and  not  Per- 
mitted ON  Biblical  Festivals,        .        ,         ,        .         .       70 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


or 


VOLUME  VII.— TRACT  BETZAH.* 


CHAPTER  I. 


MiSHNA  I.     Why  a  new-born  thing  on  a  festival  must  not  be  used  on  the 

same  day.  The  different  opinions  for  the  reason  of  it.  How  is  the  case 
with  the  same  on  the  two  festival  days  which  are  kept  in  exile  only  but  not 
in  Palestine  ?  How  is  the  case  when  a  Sabbath  falls  on  one  of  the  two  days 
of  the  exile  festivals  ?  And  how  is  the  law  of  the  same  on  the  two  days  of 
New  Year,  which  are  kept  in  Palestine  also— are  they  considered  as 
one  sacredness  or  two?  About  a  burial  on  festivals  and  New  Year.  An 
animal  or  fowl  whose  blood  must  be  covered  when  slaughtered,  in  which 
case  they  may  be  slaughtered  on  a  festival.  And  how  is  it  with  a  cross 
which  is  doubtful,  if  it  is  considered  a  wild  or  a  domestic  animal.  The 
ordinance  of  Rabbanjohanan  b.  Zakkai, 1-^5 

MiSHNAS  n.  to  Vni.  Concerning  the  preparing  of  doves  of  the  cots 
for  the  festival,  and  their  removal  from  one  cot  to  another.  The  shutters  of 
shops,  may  they  be  removed  ?  If  birds  have  removed  from  their  prepared 
place  ?  If  one  has  prepared  black  pigeons  and  finds  white  ones,  or  more 
or  less  than  he  has  prepared  previously.  Which  utensils  are  allowed  to 
be  used  for  the  purpose  they  were  made,  and  for  other  purposes.  If  the 
tallow  of  the  slaughtered  on  the  festival  may  be  salted.  The  three  things 
the  finishing  of  which  is  allowed.  What  it  is  allowed  to  carry  on  public 
ground.  If  it  is  lawful  to  give  to  the  priest  the  first  dough  on  the  festival. 
The  necessary  change  in  laboring  from  the  week-days,  how  shall  it  be 
done? ^5-24 

MiSHNAS  IX.  to  XII.  If  spices  may  be  pounded  on  a  festival.  How 
about  Ptisana  ?  How  to  pick  pulse  on  a  festival.  The  custom  of  the  house 
of  Rabban  Gamaliel  in  such  cases.  How  about  sending  as  presents  on  a 
festival,  shoes,  sandals,  phylacteries,  etc 24-27 

*  See  Introduction  to  Synopsis  in  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxix ;  also  note  at 
end  of  Synopsis  in  Vol.  V. 


xii  SYNOPSIS  OF   SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTER  II. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  III.  Of  what  kind  of  eatables  the  cooking  Erub  may  be 
prepared.  How  it  is  if  one  has  forgotten  to  make  it,  and  how  it  is  with  him 
who  has  not  made  it  intentionally.  About  the  purification  of  vessels  on  the 
festival.  About  bringing  peace,  vow,  and  voluntary  offerings  on  the  festi- 
val. About  the  four  hundred  Zuz  which  a  sick  person  ordered  to  give  to  a 
certain  man.  that  he  should  marry  his  daughter,  and  the  latter  refused.  The 
discussion  of  the  schools  of  Shammai  and  Hillel  about  laying  the  hands  on 
the  offerings  on  the  festival 28-40 

MiSHNAS  IV.  to  VII.  The  three  things  which  R.  Gamaliel  decided  as 
the  school  of  Shammai.  Is  it  lawful  to  paint  the  eyes  on  a  festival?  (See 
also  Appendix  on  page  45.)  About  baking  thick  loaves.  How  about 
putting  spice  on  live  coals.  The  three  things  which  R.  Elazar  b.  Azariah 
permitted,  and  the  other  sages  prohibited.  The  laws  about  a  pepper  hand- 
mill  and  a  child's  carriage, 40-45 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  IV.  The  contradiction  between  the  Tosephta  and  the 
Mishna  concerning  beasts  and  fowls.  Why  a  certain^bird  is  called  "  Durur." 
Why  R.  Gamaliel  did  not  accept  the  fish  which  a  Gentile  brought  him  as  a 
present.  If  the  beasts  which  are  in  a  garden  must  be  prepared  previously. 
In  what  case  a  man  may  be  carried  in  a  chair.  Why  R.  Na'hman  allowed 
his  Yalta  to  be  carried.  If  it  is  lawful  to  examine  the  blemish  of  a  first-born 
animal,  and  how  is  the  case  if  the  animal  is  born  with  a  blemish  ?  About 
the  Amora  who  was  erratic  in  his  teachings  (see  also  footnote).  Does  the 
law  of  Muktzah  exist  for  the  half  of  a  Sabbath  ?       .         .         .         .         46-54 

MiSHNAS  V.  to  X.  How  to  buy  an  animal  for  the  festival.  How  to  buy 
meat  from  the  butcher  and  things  from  the  grocery  without  naming  a  price. 
Is  it  allowed  to  measure  beverages  on  the  festival  by  the  seller  ?  and  what 
shall  be  done  to  satisfy  both  the  buyer  and  the  seller.  About  the  three  hun- 
dred pitchers  of  wine,  and  the  same  number  of  oil,  which  were  gathered 
from  the  froth,  and  from  the  vessels  after  emptying,  which  were  brought 
to  the  treasurer  of  charity,  and  his  answer.  How  to  feed  the  animals, 
when  measuring  is  needed.  How  the  wives  of  R.  Joseph  and  R.  Ashi  sifted 
their  flour  on  the  festival,  and  of  the  approval  and  disapproval  of  their 
husbands, 54-59 

CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  VI.  How  to  carry  jars  of  wine  from  one  place  to  another, 
and  from  what  stacks  fuel  may  be  taken.  If  some  may  be  taken  from  a 
ruined  booth.  Also  from  what  kind  of  beams  wood  may  be  cut  for  the  fes- 
tival. If  it  is  permitted  to  make  a  hole  in  a  tent  filled  with  fruit.  How  it  i^ 
about  making  a  hole  in  clay  for  the  purpose  of  using  it  for  a  lamp.  The  six 
things  which  Bar  Qappara  taught  about  a  wick.  There  are  three  men 
whose  life  is  not  called  life,       .....,.„         60-64 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xiii 

MiSHNAS  VII.  to  IX.  How  to  roast  salted  fisli.  Is  it  allowed  to  smear 
an  oven  with  clay  ?  The  difference  of  opinion  between  the  Amoraim  about 
Hizra.  If  broken  vessels  may  be  used  for  fuel.  Branches  of  spice-trees  to 
enjoy  the  odor,  whether  they  may  be  handled.  And  how  to  grind  spices. 
How  R.  Jehudah  used  to  break  twigs  off  from  spice-trees,  to  supply  to  his 
guests.  If  it  is  allowed  to  make  heaps  of  fuel  in  the  yard.  Ovens  or  hearths 
standing  in  the  yard,  are  they  considered  as  vessels  ?  If  the  hair  of  an 
animal's  feet  may  be  removed  by  fire.  If  one  wishes  to  partake  of  the 
fruit  of  a  Sabbatical  year,  what  must  he  previously  do  ?  In  which  case 
may  the  same  be  used  if  it  is  doubtful  whether  the  heave-offering  was  sep- 
arated ? 64-69 

CHAPTER    V. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  VI.  The  difference  between  Sabbath  and  a  Festival,  in 
throwing  and  covering  fruit.  About  removing  fruit  from  one  roof  to  another. 
The  things  which  are  prohibited  on  account  of  Sh'buth  (Sabbath-rest — rab- 
binically).  The  things  which  are  prohibited  as  optional.  The  legal  limit 
within  which  cattle  and  utensils  may  be  brought  for  the  use  of  the  festival. 
About  a  barrel  of  wine  and  an  animal  which  were  bought  in  partnership  by 
two  men  from  different  places,  what  shall  be  done,  and  the  different  law 
about  these  two.  What  R.  Abba  prayed  when  he  intended  to  go  to 
Palestine,  and  what  he  said  after  he  reached  there.  The  five  things  which 
have  been  taught  about  burning  coals.  The  Babylonian  travellers.  Fruit 
which  is  deposited  in  another's  house,  who  is  to  be  considered  the  owner  of 
same  concerning  the  carrying  of  it.  The  advice  to  water  an  animal  before 
slaughtering  it, 70-78 


TRACT  BETZAH  (YOM  TOB). 


CHAPTER    I. 


REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  EATABLES  AND  BEVERAGES :  PREPARA- 
TIONS FROM  THE  FIRST  DAY  OF  FESTIVALS  TO  THE  SECOND,  FROM 
THE    FESTIVALS    TO    THE    SABBATH,    AND    VICE    VERSA. 

MISHNA:  An  egg  laid  on  a  festival  may  be  eaten  on  the 
same  day.  So  say  the  school  of  Shammai ;  the  school  of  Hillel, 
however,  say  it  must  not.  The  school  of  Shammai  say  that 
leaven  the  size  of  an  olive  and  leavened  bread  the  size  of  a  date 
(are  to  be  removed  before  Passover),  but  the  school  of  Hillel  say 
that  both  must  be  removed  when  of  the  size  of  an  oHve  only.  If 
wild  game  or  fowl  is  to  be  slaughtered  on  a  festival,  the  school  of 
Shammai  say  one  should  dig  up  (the  earth)  with  a  spade  and 
cover  the  blood,  but  the  school  of  Hillel  forbid  the  killing  unlese 
loose  earth  had  been  prepared  for  that  purpose  the  day  before. 
Both  schools,  however,  agree  that  if  the  killing  had  been  done, 
one  may  loosen  some  earth  and  cover  the  blood  with  it,  for  ashes 
are  always  ready  in  the  hearth. 

GEMARA:  To  what  kind  of  hen  does  the  Mishna  refer?  If 
to  a  hen  designed  for  eating,  why  then  does  the  school  of  Hillel 
prohibit  the  eating  of  the  egg?  Is  it  not  a  part  of  the  eatables 
which  were  prepared  (for  the  festival)?  If  to  a  hen  kept  for  lay- 
ing eggs  only,  what  is  the  reason  of  the  school  of  Shammai,  who 
permit  to  eat  it  ?  Is  this  not  Muktzah  (designation  *)?  Should 
we  suppose  that  the  school  of  Shammai  do  not  hold  the  theory 
of  Muktzah,  even  then  the  eating  of  it  could  not  be  permitted, 
as  it  is  a  new-born  thing,  and  even  one  who  denies  the  theory  of 
Muktzah  should  hold  to  the  theory  of  Nolad  (new-born  thing). 
Nay,  R.  Na'hman  has  declared  that  one  who  denies  the  theory  of 
Muktzah  denies  also  the  theory  of  Nolad. 

*  See  footnote  on  p.   79  of  Tract  Sabbath. 


2  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

If  so,  then  the  school  of  Shammai  will  be  in  accordance  with 
R.  Simeon  (who  denies  the  theory  of  Muktzah),  and  the  school 
of  Hillel  will  be  in  accordance  wdth  R.  Jehudah  (who  holds  it); 
but  this  would  not  be  the  case,  because  did  not  R.  Na'hman  state 
(in  Tract  Sabbath)  that  the  school  of  Hillel  are  always  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Simeon  and  the  school  of  Shammai  with  R.  Je- 
hudah ?  R.  Na'hman  may  say  :  Because  we  found  an  anonymous 
Mishna  (in  Tract  Sabbath,  p.  375)  which  is  in  accordance  with  R. 
Simeon,  therefore  he  declares  that  concerning  the  Sabbath  the 
school  of  Hillel  hold  with  R.  Simeon,  and  concerning  the  festi- 
vals we  found  an  anonymous  Mishna  (Sabbath,  p.  375)  in  ac- 
cordance with  R.  Jehudah,  therefore  he  declares  that  the  school 
of  Hillel  are  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah,  who  is  more  rigorous. 

Let  us  see:  Who  makes  the  Mishna  anonymous?  Rabbi  (its 
editor).  Why  does  he  make  it  anonymous  in  regard  to  Sabbath 
in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon,  and  in  regard  to  festivals  (makes 
it  anonymous)  according  to  R.  Jehudah  ?  This  is  no  question. 
Relating  to  Sabbath,  which  is  so  rigorous  that  it  has  a  capital 
punishment  and  there  is  no  fear  that  anyone  will  dare  to  dis- 
regard its  rules,  therefore  Rabbi  made  an  anonymous  Mishna 
in  accordance  with  the  more  lenient  R.  Simeon  ;  but  relating 
to  festivals,  which  have  no  capital  punishment  at  all,  and  the 
rules  are  lenient,  for  fear  that  otherwise  they  may  be  disre- 
garded. Rabbi  made  an  anonymous  Mishna  in  accordance  with 
R. Jehudah. 

Now,  then,  if  the  Mishna  means  a  hen  which  is  kept  for  laying 
eggs,  and  the  reason  that  the  school  of  Hillel  prohibit  it,  is  be- 
cause the  Qgg  is  Muktzah,  why  do  they  not  differ  about  the  hen 
itself?  (whether  it  is  permitted  to  eat  it  or  not).  Therefore  said 
Rabba :  The  Mishna  refers  to  a  hen  kept  for  eating,  and  to  a 
festival  which  falls  after  Sabbath  ;  and  the  teaching  of  the  school 
of  Hillel  is  not  for  the  reason  of  Muktzah,  but  of  preparation ; 
i.e.,  an  tgg  which  is  laid  to-day  Rabba  is  certain  that  it  was  ripe 
the  preceding  day,  and  it  is  in  accordance  with  his  theory,  thus  : 
It  is  written  [Ex.  xvl.  5]  :  '*  And  it  shall  come  to  pass  on  the  sixth 
day,  when  th^y  prepare  what  they  shall  have  brought  in  "  ;  i.e., 
only  on  a  week-day  shall  anything  be  prepared  for  the  Sabbath 
or  for  festivals,  but  nothing  should  be  prepared  on  a  festival  for 
the  Sabbath,  and  vice  versa. 

Said  Abayi  to  Rabba :  Let  it  then  be  permitted  on  a  festival 
which  does  not  come  after  Sabbath,  and  he  answered  :  It  is  as  a 
precautionary  measure  for  the  festival  which  falls  after  Sabbath. 


TRACT   BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  3 

Said  Abayl  again  :  Let  it  then  be  permitted  on  a  Sabbath,  and 
he  rejoined  again  :  It  is  a  precautionary  measure  for  the  Sabbath 
which  falls  after  a  festival.  Said  Abayi  again  :  Do  we  take  such 
precautionary  measures?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha : 
If  one  kills  a  hen  on  a  festival  and  finds  in  it  ripe  eggs,  he  is  per- 
mitted to  eat  them  ?  Now,  if  such  precautionary  measures  are 
taken,  why  should  not  the  same  precautionary  measure  be  taken 
for  the  above  eggs,  for  fear  lest  one  eat  new-laid  eggs  ?  Rabba 
again  rejoined  :  Ripe  eggs  in  the  entrails  of  a  hen  are  not  a  usual 
occurrence,  and  for  an  unusual  occurrence  no  precautionary  meas- 
ures are  taken. 

R.  Joseph,  however,  said  that  (the  prohibition  of  eating  an 
egg  from  a  hen  kept  for  eating)  is  as  a  precautionary  meas- 
ure lest  one  may  eat  fruit  which  has  fallen  from  a  tree  on 
Sabbath.  R.  Itz'hak  said  that  the  precautionary  measure  is 
taken  lest  one  drink  the  beverages  which  flow  from  a  tree  on  Sab- 
bath. From  the  following  teaching  we  learn  that  R.  Johanan 
agrees  with  R.  Joseph's  opinion,  viz. :  R.  Johanan  found  R.  Je- 
hudah  contradicting  himself,  namely :  We  have  learned  in  a 
Mishna  in  Sabbath,  one  may  not  press  fruit  to  derive  beverage 
from  it ;  and  even  if  the  beverage  flowed  of  itself,  it  is  prohibited. 
R.  Jehudah,  however,  said  :  If  the  fruit  was  for  the  purpose  of 
eating,  the  beverage  which  flows  from  it  is  permitted,  and  if  the 
fruit  was  for  beverage,  the  latter  is  not  permitted.  From  this  we 
see  that  although  the  beverage  which  flows  from  the  fruit  was  not 
prepared  on  the  preceding  day,  its  use  is  nevertheless  permitted  ; 
and  in  another  place  we  find  that  the  same  R.  Jehudah  said, 
*'  that  an  egg  which  was  laid  on  one  festival  day  may  be  eaten  on 
the  second  festival  day" — on  the  second,  but  not  on  the  first. 
This  contradicts  his  first  dictum,  that  the  beverage  may  be  used 
on  the  same  day.  And  R.  Johanan  answered  about  this  contra- 
diction thus :  Say,  that  it  is  on  the  contrary,  that  not  R.  Jehu- 
dah permits  to  drink  the  beverage,  but  the  first  Tana  in  the  above 
Mishna.  Now,  when  R.  Johanan  contradicted  the  teaching  con- 
cerning the  beverage  and  the  egg,  we  must  say  that  the  prohibi- 
tion of  both  is  for  one  and  the  same  reason. 

Rabbina  the  son  of  R.  Ula  said  :  It  is  not  so.  R.  Jehudah, 
who  says  that  the  egg  must  be  eaten  on  the  second  day,  and  not 
on  the  first,  refers  to  a  case  where  the  hen  was  kept  for  laying 
eggs  only,  and  this  is  according  to  his  theory  of  Muktzah. 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following  Boraitha :  An  egg 
which  was  laid   on   Sabbath   or  on   a   festival  day  must  not   be 


4  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

handled  to  cover  a  vessel  with  it,  or  to  support  the  foot  of  a  bed 
with  it.  It  is  permitted,  however,  to  cover  it  with  a  vessel  to 
prevent  it  from  breaking.  If  it  is  doubtful  whether  the  egg  was 
laid  on  that  day  or  not,  it  is  also  disallowed  to  use  it.  Should  it 
become  mixed  in  even  with  a  thousand  eggs,  all  the  eggs  are  pro- 
hibited to  be  used  on  that  day.  It  is  right  according  to  Rabba's 
teaching,  who  says  that  w^hen  the  egg  is  prohibited  for  the  reason 
of  preparation,  which  is  biblical,  therefore  a  doubtful  egg  must 
not  be  used  because  it  is  doubtful  according  to  a  biblical  law, 
and  all  doubts  about  biblical  ordinances  must  be  decided  more 
rigorously ;  but  according  to  R.  Joseph  and  R.  Itz'hak,  who  say 
that  it  is  prohibited  only  as  a  precautionary  measure,  why  then  is 
it  not  allowed  to  use  the  doubtful  egg  that  is  so  only  according 
to  a  rabbinical  ordinance,  and  all  doubts  concerning  rabbinical 
ordinances  must  be  decided  more  leniently  ?  The  latter  part  of 
the  Boraitha  means  that  it  was  doubtful  whether  it  was  laid  by  a 
hen  biblically  forbidden  to  be  eaten  {e.^.,  sick  or  crippled).  If  it 
is  so,  how  will  the  latter  part  of  this  Boraitha,  ''  if  it  were  mixed 
in  even  with  a  thousand  eggs,  all  are  prohibited,"  be  explained? 
It  would  be  right  if  there  were  a  doubt  whether  it  was  laid  on  a 
week-day  or  on  a  festival,  where  the  prohibition  is  temporary 
(because  on  the  morrow  all  may  be  eaten) ;  and  there  is  a  rule 
when  anything  is  temporarily  prohibited,  if  it  is  mixed  in  with 
a  thousand,  the  prohibition  remains,  but  if  the  egg  was  doubtful 
to  be  from  a  biblically  forbidden  hen  (in  which  case  the  prohibi- 
tion remains  in  force  always),  then  if  it  is  mixed  in  with  other  eggs, 
why  should  they  all  be  invalid  ?  Let  it  be  ignored  as  against 
the  majority?  (that  one  egg  be  removed,  and  the  remaining 
should  be  used).  The  assumption  that  an  egg  is  a  thing  of  value, 
and  therefore  must  not  be  ignored,  would  apply  only  to  those 
who  say  that  all  things  usually  counted  must  not  be  ignored  ;  but 
what  can  be  said  to  those  who  say  that  only  things  which  are 
always  sure  to  be  counted  may  be  ignored  ?  (This  objection 
remains.) 

R.  Ashi  said :  The  meaning  of  ''  doubtfulness  "  in  the  Borai- 
tha  is,  whether  it  is  a  week  or  festival  day,  it  is  nevertheless 
prohibited  to  use  it,  although  according  to  R.  Joseph  and  R. 
Itz'hak  it  is  only  a  rabbinical  doubt,  because  the  prohibition  is 
only  temporary,  and  in  case  of  a  temporary  prohibition  even  a 
rabbinical  one  must  wait  till  the  prohibition  is  over. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  Anonymous  teacher*  in  the 
name  of  R.  Eliezer  said  that  the  egg  in  question  may  be  eaten 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  5 

together  with  the  hen  that  laid  it.  To  what  case  does  the 
Boraitha  refer?  If  the  hen  is  kept  for  eating,  then  it  is  self- 
evident  ;  if  it  is  a  hen  kept  for  laying  eggs,  then  both  are  not 
allowed  to  be  used.  Said  R.  Zera :  The  Boraitha  means  to  say 
that  the  egg  can  only  then  be  eaten  when  the  hen  which  laid 
it  was  also  eaten.  How  shall  it  be  explained  ?  Said  Abayi :  In 
case  the  hen  was  bought  not  for  any  definite  purpose,  if  it  was 
slaughtered  and  prepared,  then  it  is  clear  that  it  was  bought  for 
the  festivals,  and  the  egg  may  also  be  used  ;  but  if  the  hen  is 
kept  alive,  then  it  is  clear  that  it  was  bought  with  the  intention 
to  keep  it  for  laying  eggs,  and  then  it  must  not  be  used.  R. 
Mari,  however,  said  that  the  Boraitha  meant  to  say  nothing,  but 
merely  exaggerated  (i.e.,  the  egg  may  be  eaten  in  any  manner), 
as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Tosephta :  A  new-laid  egg 
may  be  eaten  with  the  hen  that  laid  it,  and  a  new-born  pullet 
with  its  shell.  As  the  shell  cannot  be  used  and  is  only  an  exag- 
geration, so  is  it  also  meant  with  the  egg  and  the  hen  which 
laid  it. 

It  was  taught  :  If  Sabbath  fell  after  a  festival,  or  vice  versa, 
anything  born  on  one  of  these  days  must  not  be  used  on  the 
other.  So  said  Rabh.  R.  Johanan,  however,  allowed  it  to  be 
used  on  the  morrow. 

Shall  we  assume  that  Rabh  holds  that  both  are  of  one  and  the 
same  sanctitude  ?  Did  not  Rabh  say  that  the  Halakha  prevails 
according  to  the  four  old  sages  *  who  are  in  accordance  with  R. 
Eliezer,  who  said  that  Sabbath  and  the  festivals  are  of  different 
sanctitudes?  Nay,  here  they  do  not  differ  concerning  the 
sanctitudes,  but  as  to  the  law  of  preparation  mentioned  above 
in  the  name  of  Rabba.  Rabh  is  in  accordance  with  this  theor}^ 
and  R.  Johanan  is  not. 

The  Tanaim  of  the  following  Tosephta  differ  on  the  same 
point :  If  an  egg  was  laid  on  the  Sabbath,  it  may  be  eaten  on  the 
festival,  and  vice  versa.  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  R.  Eliezer, 
however,  said,  that  there  is  still  a  difference  of  opinion  among 
the  schools  of  Shammai  and  Hillel.  According  to  the  former  it 
may,  and  according  to  the  latter  it  may  not  be  eaten. 

The  householder  of  R.  Adda  b.  Ahabah  had  eggs  which  were 
laid  on  a  festival  preceding  the  Sabbath ;  he  came  to  him  and 
inquired  whether  it  is  permitted  to  roast  them  that  day,  to  be 
eaten   on   the   morrow.     He    answered  :  What  is  thy  question  ? 

*  See  Tract  Erubin,  p.  82. 


6  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Because  thou  thinkest  that  when  Rabh  and  R.  Johanan  differ  the 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  latter;  yet  even  R.  Johanan 
permits  only  to  sip  the  egg  when  raw  on  the  morrow,  but  he 
never  permitted  to  handle  it  on  the  same  day. 

The  householder  where  R.  Papa  lived,  according  to  others 
another  man,  had  eggs  which  were  laid  on  a  Sabbath  preceding  a 
festival,  and  he  asked  R.  Papa  if  they  could  be  eaten  on  the  mor- 
row, and  R.  Papa  answered  him  :  Leave  it  until  to-morrow  and 
come  again,  because  Rabh  did  not  use  an  interpreter  on  a  festival 
day  after  meals  to  decide  questions  belonging  to  the  next  day, 
for  fear,  perhaps,  that  he  had  drunk  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  lug 
of  wine.  When  he  came  on  the  next  day  R.  Papa  said  to  him  : 
If  I  had  decided  the  question  yesterday,  when  I  was  a  little  light- 
headed, I  would  have  erred,  and  would  have  decided  according  to 
R.  Johanan,  as  the  rule  is  where  Rabh  and  R.  Johanan  differ,  the 
Halakha  prevails  always  according  to  R.  Johanan,  and  this  would 
not  be  right,  because  Rabha  said  that  the  case  in  question  is  one 
of  the  three  *  where  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  Rabh,  both 
when  he  is  lenient  as  well  as  rigorous. 

R.  Johanan  said :  Wood  which  falls  from  a  tree  on  Sabbath 
must  not  be  used  on  the  following  festival  day ;  and  if  it  would 
be  asked  what  is  the  difference  between  the  wood  and  the  egg,  it 
can  be  said  that  the  egg  can  be  used  while  raw  just  after  it  has 
been  laid,  and  if  left  until  the  next  day,  because  it  must  not  be 
used  on  the  same  day ;  but  if  the  wood  will  be  used  just  after 
Sabbath  is  over,  one  might  say  that  the  use  of  the  wood  was 
allowed  on  the  same  day,  and  that  it  was  not  used  because  it  was 
prohibited  to  make  a  fire  on  Sabbath. 

R.  Mathna  said  :  If  wood  had  fallen  down  from  a  tree  directly 
into  an  oven  on  a  festival  day,  one  may  add  wood  which  had  been 
prepared  on  the  preceding  day  and  burn  it ;  but  is  not  this  han- 
dHng  a  prohibited  thing  ?  To  this  the  answer  is,  because  the  bulk 
of  the  wood  may  be  handled,  the  rest  is  ignored.  But  did  he 
not  ignore  the  prohibited  wood  intentionally?  and  a  Mishna 
teaches  that  a  prohibited  thing  must  not  be  ignored  on  purpose. 
This,  however,  is  only  true  of  a  biblical  prohibition,  but  not  of  a  rab- 
binical. But  according  to  R.  Ashi,  who  said  that  a  thing  which 
is  prohibited  only  temporarily,  cannot  be  ignored  by  any  means, 
what  can  be  said  ?  This  is  when  the  prohibited  thing  is  preserved  ; 
but  here,  when  the  wood  is  to  be  destroyed  by  fire,  it  is  different. 


*  As  it  will  be  explained  further  on,  p.  8. 


TkACT  BETZAH  (YOM  TOB).  j 

It  was  taught  about  the  two  festival  days  in  exile :  Rabh  said 
if  anything  was  born  on  the  first  day,  it  may  be  eaten  on  the 
morrow,  but  R.  Assi  says  it  must  not.  Said  R.  Zera  :  It  seems  to 
me  that  R.  Assi  is  correct  in  his  opinion,  because  in  our  time  the 
time  of  the  calendar  is  known  to  us,  and  nevertheless  we  hold  in 
exile  two  days  of  festival  (consequently  we  must  hold  all  the 
ordinances  which  were  ordained  in  that  time).  Abayi,  however, 
said  :  It  seems  to  me  that  Rabh  is  correct  in  his  opinion,  and  our 
keeping  of  two  days  of  festival  in  exile  is  merely  because  a  message 
was  sent  to  us  from  the  West :  Take  heed  of  the  customs  of  your 
ancestors,  as  it  can  happen  that  the  government  might  forbid  the 
keeping  of  festivals,  and  the  exact  date  might  be  forgotten  (after 
the  government  should  retract  the  command). 

It  was  taught :  Rabh  and  Samuel  both  said  of  the  two  festi- 
val days  of  New  Year :  Something  born  on  the  first  day  must 
not  be  used  on  the  other. 

Rabha  said :  From  the  day  of  the  ordinance  of  Rabban 
Johanan  ben  Zakkai,*  an  egg  which  is  laid  on  the  first  day  of  the 
New  Year  festival  may  be  eaten  on  the  next  day.  Said  Abayi  to 
him  :  Did  not  Rabh  and  Samuel  both  say  that  it  is  not  allowed  ? 
Rejoined  Rabha :  I  say  to  you  that  of  Johanan  b.  Zakkai,  and 
you  mention  Rabh  and  Samuel  to  me  [says  the  Gemara  :  Do 
really  Rabh  and  Samuel  contradict  a  Mishna  ?  Nay,  it  presents 
no  difficulty  :  The  ordinance  of  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  was  only  for 
Palestine,  but  Rabh  and  Samuel  speak  for  the  exile]. 

R.  Joseph,  however,  said  even  after  the  ordinance  of  Johanan 
b.  Zakkai  the  prohibition  of  the  egg  remains  in  force,  because  the 
prohibition  has  been  ordained  by  the  vote  of  a  majority  of  sages, 
and  everything  that  has  been  ordained  by  a  majority  some  time 
ago,  must  again  be  voted  by  a  majority.  Said  Abayi  to  him  : 
Did  the  sages  in  Johanan  b.  Zakkai's  time  discuss  about  an  egg? 
They  discussed  only  about  the  witnesses  of  the  new  moon. 
When  it  was  ordained  that  the  witnesses  should  not  be  received 
on  the  30th  day  (consequently  two  days  were  kept  festival),  the 
egg  was  prohibited,  but  after  that,  when  it  was  again  allowed  to 
receive  the  witnesses  the  entire  30th  day,  in  consequence  holiday 
was  kept  only  one  day,  and  the  egg  could  not  be  any  longer  pro- 
hibited. 

R.  Ada  and-  R.  Shalman  [both  from  the  city  of  Khaluchith] 
eaid  :  The  reason  why  the  egg  is  prohibited  even  after  the  ordi- 

*  For  this  ordinance  of  R.  Johanan  ben  Zakkai  see  Tract  Rosh  Ilashana,  pp.  55-56. 


8  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

nance  of  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai,  is  because  the  Temple  will  soon 
be  rebuilt,  and  then  one  may  say  the  last  year,  have  we  not  eaten 
the  second  day  of  the  festival  the  egg  that  was  laid  on  the  first 
day  ?  We  will  do  the  same  now,  and  they  will  not  know  that 
the  last  year  had  two  separate  sanctitudes ;  and  now,  when  the 
Temple  is  built,  the  two  days  are  as  one  long  day  of  one  and  the 
same  sacredness. 

If  it  is  so,  let  the  witnesses  who  come  to  testify  about  the  new 
moon,  also  not  be  received  ?  because  soon  will  the  Temple  be 
rebuilt,  and  they  will  say  :  Did  we  not  receive  the  last  year  the 
whole  30th  day  ?  The  same  will  we  do  now  ?  What  comparison 
is  there  ?  Only  the  court  (Beth  Din)  can  receive  the  testimony 
of  the  witnesses,  but  eating  an  egg  appertains  to  the  common 
people.  Rabha,  however,  said  :  That  even  after  the  ordinances 
of  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  the  egg  is  prohibited  for  this  reason : 
Would  not  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  himself  agree  that  if  the  wit- 
nesses were  coming  after  the  Min'ha  prayer  (in  the  afternoon), 
both  the  30th  day  and  the  morrow  would  be  kept  sacred  ? 
(Therefore  we  who  are  at  a  great  distance  from  Palestine,  and  do 
not  know  when  the  witnesses  appeared,  must  keep  both  days 
holy,  and  as  of  one  kind  of  sacredness ;  in  consequence  an  egg 
laid  cannot  be  eaten  on  what  is  considered  as  the  same  day.) 

Rabha  said  again  :  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  Rabh 
in  these  three  ordinances,  both  when  he  is  lenient  and  rigorous 
(namely:  i.  An  egg  laid  on  a  Sabbath  preceding  festival  day  or 
on  a  festival  day  preceding  a  Sabbath  may  be  eaten  on  the  mor- 
row. 2.  The  same  is  the  case  with  the  two  festival  days  in  exile. 
3.  But  if  it  was  laid  on  the  first  day  of  the  two  New  Year's  days, 
it  must  not  be  eaten). 

Rabha  said :  The  preparing  for  the  burial  of  a  dead  body  on 
the  first  day  of  the  exile  festival  must  be  done  by  Gentiles ;  but 
on  the  second  day  Israelites  may  do  it,  even  if  it  is  New  Year. 
With  a  new-born  thing,  however,  in  the  two  days  of  New  Year 
it  is  different  (because  ^/lese  two  days  are  considered  as  of  one 
sacredness).  The  sages  of  Nehardai,  however,  said  the  case  is 
the  same  with  a  new-born  thing  also.  Said  Mar  Zutra :  The  law 
concerning  burial  on  holidays  refers  to  a  case  when  the  corpse  had 
been  lying  some  time  and  there  is  fear  of  corruption  ;  but  if  it 
had  just  died  it  may  lie  until  after  the  holidays  and  then  be 
interred.  R.  Ashi,  however,  said  :  Even  if  it  has  just  died  it  can 
be  buried  on  the  same  day,  as  the  sages  considered  the  second 
day  of  a  festival  a  week-day  in  relation  to  a  dead  body,  and  it  is 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  9 

allowed  even  to  cut  myrtle  for  it  and  prepare  (a  nice  cloak  for  him 
besides)  the  shrouds. 

Rabbina  was  sitting  in  the  presence  of  R.  Ashi  on  the  first 
day  of  New  Year,  and  noticed  that  he  was  downcast.  He  asked 
him  :  Why  is  the  Master  downcast  ?  R.  Ashi  answered  :  Because 
I  have  not  made  a  combining  of  cookery  (Erub  Tabshilin  ;  i.e., 
the  third  day  of  the  new  year  was  a  Sabbath,  and  it  was  neces- 
sary to  prepare  on  the  second  day  of  New  Year  for  the  Sabbath 
by  making  a  ''  combining  of  cookery  ").  Said  Rabbina  to  him  : 
Let  Master  make  it  to-day.  Did  not  Rabha  say  that  whoever 
forgoi"  to  make  a  combining  on  the  eve  of  a  festival,  is  permitted 
to  make  it  on  the  first  day?  And  R.  Ashi  rejoined:  Rabha 
allowed  it  only  on  the  exile  festival  day,  but  not  on  the  two  days 
of  New  Year.  Said  Rabbina  again  :  Did  not  the  sages  of  Neher- 
dai  decide  that  the  same  is  the  case  with  New  Year's  day  ?  R. 
Mordecai  answered  to  Rabbina :  I  have  heard  Master  plainly  de- 
clare that  he  did  not  agree  with  the  sages  of  Neherdai  (Master 
means  R.  Ashi).    Therefore  do  not  molest  him  with  this  question. 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  pullet  which  was  born  on  a  festival 
must  not  be  eaten  on  the  same  day.  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  said 
even  on  a  week-day  it  is  not  allowed  to  eat  it  on  the  same  day, 
because  its  eyes  are  not  yet  open.  We  also  learn  in  the  follow- 
ing Boraitha :  It  is  written  [Lev.  xi.  22]  :  '*  All  flying  insects  that 
walk  upon  four  legs  shall  be  an  abomination  to  you."  By  *'  all  " 
it  is  meant  to  add  the  pullet  whose  eyes  are  not  as  yet  open. 

R.  Huna  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  An  (t^'g  becomes  ripe  as 
ioon  as  it  is  laid.  What  does  Rabh  mean  to  teach  us  by  this 
statement  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  he  meant  to  say  that  it  be- 
comes ripe  enough  to  be  eaten  with  milk,  which  would  not  be  the 
case  if  the  ^^g  were  found  in  the  entrails  of  a  hen  ?  Did  not  a 
Boraitha  say :  He  who  kills  a  hen  and  finds  in  it  ripe  eggs  may 
eat  them  with  milk?  Shall  we  assume  that  Rabh  means  to  teach 
us  that  when  it  is  laid  on  a  festival  it  may  be  eaten  on  that  same 
day ;  but  how  if  it  were  found  in  the  entrails  of  a  hen,  would  it 
not  be  allowed  to  eat  it  on  a  festival  ?  Did  not  a  Boraitha  say 
that  if  ripe  eggs  are  found  in  the  hen  on  a  festival  day,  they  may 
be  eaten  ?  If  it  be  said  that  Rabh  means  to  teach  us  what  the 
Boraitha  has  added  to  the  Mishna  (this  cannot  be  said  either, 
because)  we  have  learned  in  the  Mishna,  an  ^gg  laid  on  a  festival 
the  school  of  Shammai  permit  to  be  eaten,  etc.  We  see  there- 
fore that  the  above  schools  differed  only  about  an  ^gg  laid 
already,  but  not  about  an  ^gg  found  in  the  entrails  of  a  hen ;  and 


j.^  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

it  cannot  be  said  of  the  school  of  Hillel  that  they  prohibited  this, 
for  then  the  above  Boraitha  which  allows  this  would  not  be  in 
accordance  with  any  of  the  schools. 

Rabh  comes  to  teach  us  that  only  an  egg  which  is  laid  is  ripe 
to  be  put  under  a  hen  for  hatching ;  but  an  egg  which  is  found 
in  the  entrails  of  a  hen,  even  if  it  were  ripe,  cannot  be  used  for 
hatching,  as  it  cannot  breed  pullets. 

And  the  difference  is  in  matters  of  buying  and  selling  (?>., 
if  one  buy  eggs  for  hatching  and  he  was  given  eggs  which  were 
found  in  the  entrails  of  a  hen,  the  seller  must  return  the  money 
to  him).  As  it  happened  once,  one  came  to  the  market  and  asked 
for  new-laid  eggs  and  he  was  given  eggs  which  were  found  in  a 
killed  hen.  When  the  case  was  brought  before  R.  Amai  he  de- 
cided that  the  sale  was  null  and  void  and  the  seller  must  return  the 
money.  Is  that  not  self-evident  ?  One  may  say  that  when  the 
buyer  asked  for  new-laid  eggs  he  meant  eggs  for  eating,  and  he 
who  sold  him  the  eggs  which  were  found  in  the  killed  hen  has 
only  to  return  to  the  buyer  the  difference  between  the  value  of  a 
new-laid  egg  and  one  found  in  a  killed  hen.  Therefore  he  comes 
to  teach  us  that  it  is  not  so,  but  that  the  whole  sale  is  null  and 
void  and  the  seller  must  return  the  money. 

It  happened,  also,  that  one  came  to  the  market  and  asked  for 
eggs  of  a  hen  which  had  paired  with  a  cock,  and  he  was  given 
eggs  of  a  hen  which  laid  them  by  warming  herself  by  scratching 
the  earth ;  and  when  this  case  was  also  brought  before  R.  Amai, 
he  made  the  sale  null  and  void  for  the  same  reason. 

And  if  you  wish,  we  will  explain  (the  above  saying  of  R. 
Huna  in  the  name  of  Rabh),  that  an  egg  is  ripe  as  soon  as  it  is 
laid,  means,  that  as  soon  as  the  greater  part  of  it  is  out  of  the 
body  of  the  hen,  it  is  considered  ripe  ;  and  this  will  be  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Johanan,  who  said  that  an  egg,  of  which  the  greater 
part  was  out  on  the  eve  of  a  festival,  and  it  slipped  back,  and 
came  out  on  the  festival,  it  might  be  eaten  the  same  day.  And 
still  others  say,  that  Rabh  means  to  teach  that  when  the  egg  is 
wholly  out  then  it  is  ripe,  but  not  otherwise,  the  reverse  of  the 
opinion  of  R.  Johanan. 

The  text  says :  When  one  has  killed  a  hen  and  found  ripe 
eggs  in  it,  they  may  be  eaten  with  milk.  R.  Jacob,  however, 
said  :  When  the  egg  is  as  yet  covered  with  veins,  it  must  not  be 
eaten  with  milk. 

The  rabbis  taught :  All  the  females  which  have  communica- 
tion with  their  males  in  the  day-time  only,  give  also  birth  in  the 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  U 

day-time  only;  and  those  which  have  communication  in  the 
night-time  only,  give  also  birth  in  the  night-time  only.  Those, 
however,  which  have  communication  at  all  times,  give  birth  also 
at  all  times.  Those  that  have  communication  in  the  day-time 
only :  e.g.,  a  hen  ;  and  in  the  night  only,  e.g.,  a  bat ;  and  at  all 
times,  e.g.,  man  and  all  animals  similar  to  him. 

To  what  purpose  did  the  Master  say  all  this  ?  This  is  neces- 
sary to  the  following  Halakha :  R.  Mari  the  son  of  R.  Cahana 
says :  One  who  has  searched  a  chicken-coop  on  the  eve  of  a  festi- 
val at  twilight,  and  does  not  find  any  eggs,  and  on  the  morrow 
before  sunrise  does  find  one,  it  may  be  eaten  the  same  day 
(as  it  could  not  have  been  laid  during  the  night).  But  did  he  not 
search  the  day  before  ?  Say,  then,  he  did  not  search  thoroughly  ; 
and  even  if  he  did  search  thoroughly,  it  is  possible  that  at  that 
time  the  greater  part  of  the  ^gg  came  out  and  slipped  back  again  ; 
and  this  is  in  accordance  with  what  is  stated  above  in  the  name  of 
R.  Johanan. 

This  is  not  so?  For  did  not  R.  Jose  b.  Saul  say  in  the  name 
of  Rabh :  If  one  has  searched  a  chicken-coop  on  the  eve  of  a 
festival  at  twilight,  and  does  not  find  any  eggs  in  it,  and  on  the 
morrow  he  finds  one,  it  must  not  be  used  ?  He  has  reference  to 
a  hen  which  bears  by  scratching  the  earth  (and  such  a  hen  may 
lay  even  at  night).  If  it  is  so,  say  in  the  case  of  R.  Mari  also 
that  the  Qgg  which  was  found  in  the  morning  was  laid  by  such  a 
hen. 

There  is  the  case  where  a  male  was  in  the  coop.  Even  then, 
can  it  not  happen  that  a  hen  may  scratch  the  earth  ?  Said 
Rabina  :  It  is  certain  that  when  there  is  a  male,  no  hen  scratches 
the  earth  for  the  purpose  of  bearing.  And  at  what  distance  in 
the  neighborhood  must  the  cock  be?  Said  R.  Gamda  in  the 
name  of  Rabh  :  As  far  as  she  can  hear  his  voice  in  the  day-time. 

R.  Mari,  according  to  his  decision,  has  decided  a  case  (in  which 
it  was  searched  on  the  eve  of  a  festival  and  nothing  found  in  it, 
but  an  Qgg  was  found  on  the  morrow,  and  there  was  no  cock 
at)  a  distance  of  sixty  houses. 

When  there  is  a  stream  between,  the  hen  does  not  cross  it, 
but  she  crosses  a  bridge  ;  neither  does  she  cross  over  a  plank.  It 
happened  once  that  a  hen  crossed  over  a  plank. 

''  The  school  of  Shammai  say  that  leaven  the  size  of  an  olive,'' 
etc.  What  is  the  reason  of  their  teaching?  They  maintain  if  the 
same  size  would  be  for  leaven  and  leavened  bread,  why  did  the 
Torah  need  mention  leaven  at  all  ?     Let  it  have  been  writter^ 


12  THE    BABYLOxNIAN    TALMUD 

''  leavened  bread,"  and  it  would  be  known  from  an  a  fortiori  conoXw- 
sion  that  leaven  the  size  of  an  olive  is  prohibited  {i.e.,  as  leavened 
bread,  which  is  not  as  sour  as  leaven  itself,  one  is  culpable  if  he  eats 
the  size  of  an  olive,  so  much  the  more,  leaven  itself  the  same 
size).  Now,  when  the  law  mentioned  leaven  and  leavened  bread 
separately  it  is  only  to  teach  us  that  their  sizes  are  different  (leaven 
the  size  of  an  olive  and  leavened  bread  the  size  of  a  date).  The 
school  of  Hillel,  however,  maintain  that  both  are  needed,  because 
if  leaven  only  were  mentioned,  one  might  say  that  because  leaven 
is  very  sour,  it  must  not  be  used,  but  leavened  bread,  which  is  not 
so  sour,  one  may  eat ;  if  leavened  bread  only  were  mentioned, 
one  could  say  that  leavened  bread  which  is  fit  to  be  eaten  is  pro- 
hibited, but  leaven  itself  which  is  not  fit  for  eating  one  is  not 
culpable  if  he  eats ;  therefore  leaven  is  also  mentioned. 

We  have  learned  also  in  a  Boraitha  :  It  is  written  [Ex.  xiii.  7]  : 
"  And  there  shall  not  be  seen  with  thee  any  unleavened  bread, 
neither  shall  there  be  seen  with  thee  any  leaven  in  all  thy  boun- 
daries." This  is  the  point  of  difference  between  the  school  of 
Shammai  and  the  school  of  Hillel  :  The  first  says,  leaven  the  size 
of  an  olive  and  leavened  bread  the  size  of  a  date,  and  according- 
to  the  latter,  both  are  of  the  size  of  an  olive. 

"  Whejt  a  person  has  killed,''  etc.  If  one  has  killed  already  ; 
but  may  he  not  commence  it?  Said  Rabha  :  The  Mishna  meant 
to  say  that  if  a  person  wishes  to  slaughter  an  animal  at  a  festival 
and  comes  to  ask  how  he  shall  do  it,  the  school  of  Shammai  say 
he  must  be  told  that  he  may  slaughter  first,  dig  to  get  loose 
earth,  and  then  cover;  but  the  school  of  Hillel  say  he  must 
be  forbidden  to  slaughter  unless  he  has  loose  earth  prepared 
from  the  preceding  day.  R.  Joseph,  however,  said,  that  accord- 
ing to  the  school  of  Shammai  he  must  be  told  to  dig  first, 
slaughter,  and  then  cover.  Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph  :  Shall  we 
assume  that  the  Master  and  Rabha  differ  about  what  R.  Zera 
said  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  as  follows  :  Whoever  slaughters  a  wild 
animal  or  fowl,  must  have  loose  earth  beneath,  to  soak  the  blood, 
and  some  on  the  top,  to  cover  with,  as  it  is  written  [Lev.  xvii.  13]  : 
''  Then  shall  he  pour  out  the  blood  thereof,  and  cover  it  up  with 
(or  iri)  earth  "  ?  "*  It  is  not  said  "to  place  earth  on  it,"  but  to 
''  cover  it  in  earth."  From  this  we  infer  that  there  must  be  earth 
underneath  and  earth  on  the  top.  Now,  the  Master  agrees  with 
R.  Zera  (and  therefore  he  must  be  told  to  dig  first),  but  Rabha 

*  The  Hebrew  term  is  1DJ/3,  vvhich  signifies  both  ///  and  7vith, 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  13 

does  riot  agree  with  R.  Zera  (therefore  in  his  opinion  he  must  be 
told  to  slaughter  first  and  dig  after).  Rejoined  R.  Joseph  :  We 
both  agree  with  the  dictum  of  R.  Zera,  and  we  differ  on  another 
point,  namely,  Rabha  holds  if  there  is  already  earth  underneath, 
he  may  slaughter,  but  he  must  not  dig  first,  for  it  may  happen 
that  he  should  afterwards  reconsider  the  matter  and  not  slaughter 
at  all  (then  he  will  have  dug  for  nothing),  but  I  hold  it  is  better 
to  permit  him  to  dig  first,  else  it  may  be  that  he  would  not 
slaughter  at  all,  and  not  enjoy  the  festival  as  becomes  it. 

*'  Both  colleges  agree^'  etc.  R.  Zriqa  said  in  the  name  of  R. 
Jehudah  :  The  case  is  when  one  had  a  spade  sticking  in  the 
ground  from  the  preceding  day.  But  he  pounds  the  earth  ? 
(reduces  the  earth  to  powder).  Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  in  the 
name  of  Rabh :  It  is  meant  that  the  spade  was  already  in  pow- 
dered earth. 

*'  As  ihe  ashes  from  the  hearth''  etc.  Where  are  the  ashes 
mentioned?  Said  Rabha:  The  Mishna  means  to  say,  that  the 
ashes  from  the  hearth  may  be  considered  as  always  prepared. 
Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  The  case  is  when  the 
hearth  had  been  heated  on  the  preceding  day,  but  when  the  fire 
was  made  on  the  festival,  it  is  not  so.  When  the  ashes,  however, 
are  hot  enough  for  roasting  an  ^%^y  they  are  considered  as  pre- 
pared. We  have  learned  the  same  in  a  Boraitha,  with  the  addi- 
tion, that  if  one  has  brought  loose  earth  for  his  garden  or  for  a 
ruin,  he  may  cover  the  blood  with  it. 

R.  Jehudah  said  again  :  One  may  bring  a  basketful  of  earth, 
and  do  with  it  all  that  he  needs.  Lectured  Mar  Zutra  in  the 
name  of  Mar  Zutra  the  great :  The  case  is  when  he  has  separated 
a  corner  for  it. 

An  objection  was  raised  :  We  have  learned  elsewhere  :  A 
kui  *  must  not  be  slaughtered  on  a  festival,  and  when  it  is,  its 
blood  must  not  be  covered.  Now,  if  it  be  so,  let  him  cover  it  as 
R.  Jehudah  said  above?  What  question  is  it — he  could  also 
cover  it  with  the  ashes  of  the  hearth,  or  with  a  spade  in  powdered 
earth  ?  We  must  say,  then,  that  they  were  not  available ;  and 
it  is  the  same  with  the  basketful  of  earth  mentioned  above,  that 
he  has  not  any.  If  such  is  the  case,  why  a  kui,  of  which  it  is 
doubtful  whether  his  blood  must  be  covered  or  not  ?  Even  an 
animal  of  which  it  is  certain  that  his  blood  must  be  covered,  the 
same  is  the  case  ?     The  Mishna  means  to  say,  that  not  only  an 

*  Cross  between  a  he-goat  and  a  hind. 


14  TH^   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

animal  of  which  it  is  certain  that  his  blood  must  be  covered  must 
not  be  slaughtered,  unless  he  has  prepared  a  covering ;  but  even 
an  animal  which  is  doubtful,  lest  one  say  that  because  of  the 
enjoyment  of  the  festival  it  shall  be  slaughtered  without  covering, 
it  comes  to  teach  us  that  he  must  not.  But  did  not  the  latter 
part  of  the  Mishna  state,  that  If  it  was  slaughtered  the  blood 
must  not  be  covered,  from  which  we  must  infer  that  the  first  part 
of  the  Mishna  means,  even  when  he  has  a  prepared  covering 
for  it  ? 

Therefore  said  Rabha :  The  ashes  of  the  hearth  are  only  con- 
sidered to  be  prepared  when  the  animal  is  of  a  species  whose  blood 
must  be  certainly  covered  ;  but  when  the  animal  is  of  a  kind  about 
the  covering  of  whose  blood  there  is  a  doubt,  it  is  not  so  {i.e.,  the 
ashes  must  not  be  handled  for  this  purpose,  as  they  are  Muktzah). 
And  this  is  in  accordance  with  his  theory  elsewhere,  that  if  one 
has  brought  earth  to  cover  with  it  dung,  he  may  cover  with  it  the 
blood  of  a  fowl,  but  not  vice  versa.  The  sages  of  Neharbelai, 
however,  said  that  even  if  he  has  brought  the  earth  for  the  pur- 
pose of  covering  with  it  the  blood  of  a  fowl,  he  may  cover  with  it 
dung  also.  In  the  West  R.  Joseph  bar  Hama,  and  according  to 
others  Rabha  the  son  of  R.  Joseph  bar  Hama,  and  R.  Zera 
differed  on  this  point.  According  to  one  a  kui  (about  which  it 
is  doubted  whether  it  is  a  wild  or  domestic  animal)  is  regarded 
as  dung,  and  according  to  the  other  it  is  not  so  (but  who  enter- 
tained either  of  these  two  opinions  it  was  not  known).  Now, 
from  the  above  teaching  of  Rabha,  who  said  that  earth  prepared 
for  a  fowl  must  not  be  used  for  dung,  we  infer  that  Rabha  is  the 
one  in  whose  opinion  a  kui  is  regarded  as  dung. 

Rami  the  son  of  R.  Jebha,  however,  said  that  the  reason  that 
we  do  not  cover  a  kui  on  a  festival  is  as  a  precautionary  measure, 
lest  one  think  the  use  of  its  tallow  permissible.  If  so,  let  it  not 
be  covered  even  on  a  week-day  ?  Nay,  on  a  week-day  one  (who 
sees  the  blood  covered)  may  think  it  is  done  for  the  purpose  of 
cleaning  the  yard.  But  what  shall  be  the  reply  to  him  who  comes 
to  ask  (whether  he  should  cover  the  blood)  ?  Therefore  we  must 
say,  that  the  reason  is  this :  On  a  week-day,  when  it  is  doubtful, 
the  sages  decree  that  nevertheless  he  should  trouble  himself  to 
cover  it,  but  on  a  festival  day  the  sages  do  not  wish  to  put  him 
to  perhaps  unnecessary  work. 

R.  Zera  taught :  Not  the  blood  of  a  kui  only  is  it  prohibited 
to  cover  on  a  festival  day,  but  even  when  a  slaughtered  domestic 
animal's  and  fowl's  blood  were  mixed  together,  it  must  not  be 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  15 

covered  either.  Said  R.  Jose  bar  Jasiniah  :  The  case  is  when  one 
cannot  cover  the  whole  blood  with  one  (shovelful)  stroke  of  the 
spade,  but  if  he  can,  he  must  cover  it.  Is  this  not  self-evident? 
One  might  say  that  we  should  prohibit  this  as  a  precautionary 
measure  to  prevent  him  from  making  two  strokes.  Therefore  he 
comes  to  teach  us  that  such  precautionary  measures  are  not  nec- 
essary. Rabha  said  :  If  one  has  slaughtered  a  fowl  on  the  eve  of 
a  festival,  the  blood  must  not  be  covered  on  the  festival ;  but  if  he 
kneaded  dough  on  the  eve  of  a  festival,  he  must  separate  the 
*'  first  dough  "  on  the  festival.  The  father  of  Samuel,  however, 
said  that  even  this  is  prohibited. 

MISHNA:  Beth  Shammai  say:  It  is  prohibited  to  remove  a 
ladder  from  one  dove-cote  to  another ;  it  may,  however,  be  inclined 
from  one  opening  to  another  (of  the  same  dove-cote).  But  Beth 
Hillel  allow  both. 

GEMARA:  R.  Hanan  bar  Ammi  said:  Both  schools  differ 
only  when  it  is  done  in  public  ground  :  According  to  Beth  Sham- 
mai one  who  will  see  him  carrying  a  ladder  may  think  he  is  going 
to  repair  his  roof;  but  Beth  Hillel  do  not  care  for  that,  for  they 
say  the  dove-cote  will  show  the  man's  purpose  of  carrying  the 
ladder.  But  if  this  is  done  in  private  ground  (where  there  is  no 
person  to  see  his  act),  all  agree  that  this  is  permissible.  But  is  it 
so?  Did  not  R.  Jehudah  say  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  all  which 
is  prohibited  on  account  of  its  liability  to  be  seen  (and  misjudged) 
remains  so  even  in  the  greatest  privacy  ?  In  this  the  Tanaim  dif- 
fer (Sabbath,  pp.  336,  337). 

Our  Mishna  does  not  accord  with  the  Tana  of  the  following 
Boraitha :  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said  both  schools  agree  that  the 
ladder  may  be  carried  from  one  dove-cote  to  another ;  the  point 
on  which  they  differ  is  whether  the  ladder  may  be  carried  back. 
The  school  of  Shammai  prohibit  it,  and  the  school  of  Hillel 
allow  even  this.  Said  R.  Jehudah :  The  Mishna  refers  only  to  a 
ladder  used  for  a  dove-cote,  but  a  ladder  to  an  attic  all  agree  is 
prohibited.  R.  Dosa  said  he  may  incline  it  from  one  window  to 
another.  Anonymous  teachers  say  in  the  name  of  R.  Dosa,  that 
he  may  also  trail  the  ladder  (making  it  change  its  position  by 
turning  it  about). 

The  children  of  R.  Hyya  were  going  out  into  the  villages. 
When  they  came  back  their  father  asked  them,  was  no  question 
asked  of  you,  which  you  have  decided  ?  and  they  answered  that 
they  were  asked  whether  a  ladder  of  an  attic  may  be  inclined  on 
a  festival,  and  they  allowed  it.     And  he  said  to  them :  Go,  pro- 


i6  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

hibit  what  you  have  permitted.  (Said  the  Gemara) :  "  The  chil- 
dren of  R.  Hyya  thought  that  R.  Dosa  had  allowed  what  R. 
Jehudah  prohibited,  and  it  was  not  so ;  he  only  allowed  what  the 
first  Tana  did  not  prohibit ;  i.e.,  a  ladder  to  a  dove-cote,  allowed 
by  the  first  Tana  even  to  be  carried,  R.  Dosa  permits  only  to 
incHne. 

"  It  may,  however,  be  inclined  front  one  ope7iing,''  etc.  We 
learn  also  in  another  Mishna  farther  on  :  The  shutters  (of  shops) 
must  not  be  removed  on  a  festival,  so  is  the  decree  of  Beth 
Shammai ;  but  according  to  Beth  Hillel  they  may  be  even  re- 
turned to  their  places.  From  this  we  see  that  concerning  the 
enjoyment  of  the  festival,  the  school  of  Shammai  are  rigorous, 
and  the  school  of  Hillel  are  lenient.  Is  not  this  in  contradiction 
to  the  first  Mishna  of  this  chapter,  where  we  see  the  opposite  ?  It 
would  be  (intelligible)  if  we  explain  the  first  Mishna's  meaning 
that  it  speaks  of  a  spade  stuck  in  the  ground  before  (then  Beth 
Shammai  would  not  be  more  rigorous).  But  what  can  be  said  of 
the  self-contradiction  of  Beth  Hillel?  Said  R.  Johanan  :  Change 
the  names  of  the  authorities  (assume  the  prohibitions  to  be  made 
by  Beth  Shammai  and  the  permissions  by  Beth  Hillel).  Says 
the  Gemara  :  Perhaps  it  is  not  so,  because  we  can  explain  the 
lenience  of  Beth  Hillel  in  the  case  of  the  shutters  by  the  fact 
that  the  law  of  building  cannot  be  applied  to  vessels  (according 
to  their  theory) ;  but  in  the  first  Mishna,  where  such  a  reason 
cannot  be  found,  they  did  not  permit. 

MISHNA:  Beth  Shammai  say  :  It  is  unlawful  to  remove  the 
birds  from  their  places,  unless  they  have  been  handled  before  the 
festival ;  but  Beth  Hillel  say :  It  is  unnecessary  to  do  more  than 
stand  on  the  eve  of  the  festival  before  the  dove-cote  and  say  : 
"  This  and  this  bird  will  I  take  for  the  festival." 

GEMARA :  Said  R.  Hanan  bar  Ammi  :  They  difTer  only 
about  the  first  brood  of  pigeons.  Beth  Shammai  hold  that  if  one 
will  not  handle  it  before  the  festival,  he  may  change  his  mind 
(and  spare  it  when  he  comes  to  take  it  on  the  festival,  and  will 
take  others  instead  of  them,  but  if  he  has  handled  it  on  the 
previous  day,  we  are  sure  that  he  will  not  change  his  mind). 
Beth  Hillel,  however,  do  not  entertain  this  fear.  But  as  for 
the  second  brood,  all  agree  that  it  is  enough  if  he  says  before 
the  festival :  *'  I  will  take  this  and  this." 

According  to  Beth  Hillel,  why  is  it  needed  one  should  men- 
tion the  individual  bird  ?  Would  it  not  suffice  to  refer  to  the 
whole   dove-cote   (and   say,   ''  from   this   dove-cote    I   will   take 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  17 

more ")  ?  Should  we  assume  that  the  school  of  Hillel  do  not 
hold  the  theory  of  premeditated  choice  (see  Vol.  III.,  p.  80)? 
But  this  would  not  be  right,  as  from  the  Mishna  (Oholath,  VII., 
3),  we  know  that  the  school  of  Hillel  hold  this  theory.  Said 
Rabha :  It  is  needed  for  the  reason  that  if  he  will  not  point 
out  the  individual,  he  may  handle  the  next  day  all  birds  of 
the  dove-cote  except  the  one  he  chooses  (if  any)  unnecessarily. 
But  did  not  Beth  Hillel  say  it  is  enough  if  he  says :  *'  I  will 
take  this  and  this  bird,"  and  yet  he  may  reject  it  when  he 
comes  to  take  it  for  slaughtering  ?  Nay,  this  is  on  the  eve 
of  a  festival,  if  he  has  chosen  some  of  them,  be  they  lean  or  fat, 
he  will  not  exchange  them  for  others ;  but  if  he  did  not  so  on  the 
eve,  and  he  comes  to  choose  them  on  the  festival  itself,  it  may  be 
that  he  will  be  compelled  to  handle  many  until  he  finds  one  that 
is  fit,  or  it  may  happen  he  finds  none  fit,  and  he  will  handle  them 
for  no  purpose,  and  he  will  be  deprived  of  the  enjoyment  of  the 
festival. 

MISHNA :  If  a  person  who  had  prepared  for  a  festival  black 
pigeons  finds  white  ones,  or  having  prepared  white  pigeons, 
should  find  black  ones ;  or  two  birds,  and  he  find  three,  they 
must  not  be  used.  If  three  birds  had  been  prepared  and  two 
only  are  found,  they  may  be  used ;  but  if  they  had  been  pre- 
pared within  the  nest,  and  are  found  before  the  nest,  they  must 
not  be  used  unless  there  were  no  other  birds  but  these  in  the 
dove-cote. 

GEMARA:  Is  not  this  self-evident?  Said  Rabba :  The 
Mishna  refers  to  a  case  when  one  had  prepared  both  white  and 
black,  and  on  the  morrow,  when  he  comes  to  take  them,  he  finds 
they  have  changed  places.  One  might  say  that  the  pigeons  are 
all  the  same,  but  they  have  changed  places,  hence  the  Mishna 
comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is  not  customary  for  the  birds  to  change 
places,  and  therefore  we  must  say  that  all  the  old  ones  are  gone, 
and  those  which  are  found  are  other  pigeons.  Shall  we  suppose 
that  this  Mishna  is  in  support  of  the  decree  of  R.  Hanina,  who 
said  that  when  one  has  to  decide  according  to  the  majority  of  cases 
similar  to  one  at  hand,  or  according  to  the  intrinsic  probability,  one 
should  decide  according  to  the  former?  (As  our  Mishna  decided 
that  they  are  other  pigeons,  and  that  is  because  in  the  majority 
of  cases  pigeons  do  not  change  places,  we  see  that  the  Mishna 
decides  according  to  majority  and  not  probability.)  Nay,  the 
case  of  the  Mishna  can  be  explained  as  Abayi  says  farther  on, 
that  it  means  not  in  the  nest  itself,  but  on  the  board  before  the 


i8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

nest,  where  strange  pigeons  also  come  and  roost  (and  so  decides 
not  according  to  majority,  but  probability). 

"  Or  two  birds,  and  he  finds  three,''  etc.  Why  is  it  so?  For 
all  reasons :   Either  all  are  strange  pigeons,  or  at  least  one. 

''If  three  birds,''  etc.  Why  so?  Because  two  are  the  same, 
though  one  is  gone.  Shall  we  assume  our  Mishna  is  only  accord- 
ing to  Rabbi,  and  not  the  sages  of  the  following  Boraitha  ?  If 
one  had  left  at  a  certain  place  one  hundred  zuz  of  second  tithe, 
and  he  found  afterwards  two  hundred  zuz,  the  ordinary  and  the 
second  tithe  money  are  mixed  together.  Such  is  the  decree  of 
Rabbi.  But  the  sages  said  that  the  whole  is  considered  as  or- 
dinary money  (considering  the  first  hundred  as  having  been  stolen, 
and  this  to  be  other  money).  But  if  he  left  two  hundred  zuz, 
and  found  only  one  hundred,  it  is  considered  that  one  hundred 
has  been  stolen,  and  the  other  hundred  remains.  So  is  the  de- 
cree of  Rabbi.  But  the  sages  said  that  the  remainder  becomes 
ordinary.  Hence  we  see  that  the  case  of  the  doves  in  our  Mishna 
is  according  to  Rabbi  ?  Nay,  the  Mishna  can  be  explained  even 
in  accordance  with  the  sages,  for  it  was  taught  in  addition  to  this 
Boraitha,  that  R.  Johanan  and  R.  Elazar  both  said  that  in  the 
case  of  pigeons  the  law  is  different  because  pigeons  have  the 
habit  of  leaving  their  nest  for  short  whiles. 

"  But  if  they  had  been  prepared  ijt  the  nest,"  etc.  Shall  we  say 
this  part  of  the  Mishna  is  in  support  of  the  above  decree  of  R. 
Hanina?  Here  it  can  also  be  explained  as  the  former  according 
to  Abayi  (that  the  board  before  the  nest  is  meant  where  strange 
pigeons  come  to  roost).  Rabha,  however,  said  :  The  Mishna  re- 
fers to  a  case  where  there  were  two  nests,  one  on  the  top  of  the 
other ;  and  not  only  is  one  prohibited  to  use  pigeons  found  be- 
fore the  lower  nest,  when  he  had  prepared  same  in  the  lower,  and 
found  both  nests  empty,  because  it  is  considered  that  from  only 
the  lower  nest  they  are  gone,  and  those  from  the  upper  nest 
have  come  down ;  but  if  he  had  prepared  them  in  the  upper  one, 
and  found  them  in  front  of  it,  while  both  nests  are  empty,  the 
case  is  the  same ;  though  usually  pigeons  do  not  go  up,  it  is  con- 
sidered that  the  upper  pigeons  are  gone,  and  those  of  the  lower 
nest  came  up  in  front  of  the  upper  nest. 

''  Unless  there  were  no  other  birds,"  etc.  How  was  the  case? 
Shall  we  say  flying  pigeons  are  meant  ?  Then  it  may  be  assumed 
that  those  that  had  been  in  the  nest  had  flown  away,  and  these 
are  strangers.  And  if  pigeons  too  young  for  flying  are  meant, 
then  if  there  is  a  nest  within   fifty  ells,  we  may  say  that  those 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  19 

that  were  here  bounded  away,  and  these  are  strangers ;  but  if  no 
strange  nest  is  near,  is  it  not  self-evident  that  they  are  the  same 
and  may  be  used,  as  Mar  Uqba  bar  Hamma  said  :  A  pigeon  that 
cannot  fly  yet  is  not  able  to  bound  away  more  than  fifty  ells? 
Nay,  it  can  be  explained  thus :  There  is  a  nest  within  fifty  ells, 
but  it  is  situated  in  a  corner  so  that  the  pigeons  could  not  see  it. 
They  are  in  their  own  nest,  and  the  Mishna  comes  to  teach  us, 
that  the  fear  of  their  bounding  away  is  only  when  there  is 
another  nest  within  fifty  ells,  which  is  visible  to  them  when  they 
are  in  their  own  nest ;  but  if  not  visible,  they  do  not  bound  away 
at  all. 

MISHNA:  Beth  Shammai  say:  The  (large  wooden)  pestle 
may  not  be  moved  for  the  purpose  of  using  it  as  a  block  to  cut 
meat  upon  ;  but  Beth  Hillel  allow  it.  Beth  Shammai  teach  :  It 
is  unlawful  to  lay  down  a  skin  to  be  trodden  on  (as  a  preparation 
for  its  being  tanned)  or  to  raise  it  from  the  ground  unless  the 
{7m?iimum)  quantity  of  meat  of  the  size  of  an  olive  be  thereon ; 
Beth  Hillel,  however,  allow  it. 

GEMARA  :  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  (an  addition  to 
this  Mishna)  that  all  agree  that  if  one  has  already  cut  meat  on 
this  pestle,  it  may  not  be  handled  more  (because  the  occasion  on 
which  it  was  necessary  for  the  festival  is  over). 

Said  Abayi :  Even  if  the  pestle  mentioned  in  the  Mishna  was 
a  new  one,  made  only  for  breaking  bones,  the  case  is  the  same  ; 
(and  Abayi  found  this  necessary  to  explain)  lest  one  say,  that 
because  it  is  a  new  one,  it  shall  be  feared  that  he  will  change 
his  mind  and  will  not  use  it  for  this  purpose,  and  so  it  will 
be  handled  unnecessarily,  and  therefore  the  Mishna  comes  to 
teach  us  that  this  fear  is  not  entertained.  From  this  we  see  that 
Beth  Shammai  have  not  such  fear.  But  did  we  not  learn  in  a 
Boraitha  :  Beth  Shammai  said  the  slaughterer  and  the  knife  must 
not  be  brought  to  the  animal,  nor,  vice  versa,  it  to  them  (for  fear 
of  his  changing  his  mind,  and  not  slaughtering  at  all,  and  being 
troubled  for  nothing)  ?  And  the  same  is  the  case  with  spices 
and  the  pestle,  which  must  not  be  carried  to  the  mortar,  nor 
vice  versa.  But  Beth  Hillel  allow  both  (hence  we  see  that  the 
school  of  Shammai  fear  his  changing  his  mind).  What  comparison 
is  it?  He  can  reject  on  second  consideration  an  animal  because 
he  wants  a  fatter  one,  or  spices  because  he  resolves  to  have  a 
dish  without  spices,  but  in  this  case  the  animal  is  already 
slaughtered  and  the  meat  is  for  cooking;  hence  he  must  cut 
it  and  prepare  it  for  eating. 


20  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  Beth  Shammai  teach  it  is  unlawful  to  lay  down  a  skin,''  etc. 
We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  :  Both  schools  agree  that  meat  for 
roasting  may  be  salted  on  the  skin.  Said  Abayi  :  Only  for 
roasting  is  it  permitted  to  salt  meat  on  it,  but  not  for  boiling 
(because  for  roasting  much  salt  is  not  necessary,  but  for  boiling 
more  is  needed).  Is  not  this  self-evident  ?  It  is  plainly  stated, 
"  for  roasting."  Abayi  comes  to  teach  us  that  even  for  roasting, 
if  more  salt  is  needed  than  ordinarily,  it  is  not  permitted. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Tallow  must  not  be  salted  and  must  not 
be  turned  over.  In  the  name  of  R.  Joshuah,  however,  it  was  said 
that  one  may  spread  it  out  upon  nails  for  being  aired.  Said  R. 
Mathna  :  The  Halakha  does  not  prevail  according  to  R.  Joshuah  ; 
but  wherein  differs  this  case  from  the  case  of  the  skin  in  our 
Mishna  ?  (The  cases  are  not  identical.)  When  one  sees  him  spread- 
ing out  the  skin,  he  may  think  because  it  is  fit  for  sitting  on,  it  is 
spread  out  for  such  purposes  ;  but  when  one  will  be  allowed  to  salt 
the  tallow,  he  may  say  :  For  what  purpose  have  the  sages  allowed 
it  ?  Only  that  it  shall  not  become  spoiled.  Then  what  is  the 
difference  between  spreading  and  salting,  and  he  will  also  salt  it  ? 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said  :  One  may  salt  several 
pieces  of  meat  at  one  time,  though  only  one  of  them  is  needed. 
R.  Adda  bar  A'hbah  had  recourse  to  ingenuity,  and  used  to  salt 
meat  for  a  festival  meal  (salting  one  piece  with  the  pretext  that 
he  will  use  it,  and  then  rejecting  it,  and  choosing  another,  and 
so  on). 

MISHNA:  The  shutters  of  stalls  must  not  be  removed  on  a 
festival  according  to  Beth  Shammai ;  but  Beth  Hillel  allow  even 
to  replace  them. 

GEMARA  :  What  kind  of  shutters  is  meant  ?  Said  Ula  :  The 
shutters  of  movable  stalls.  He  said  again :  There  are  three 
things  of  which  the  finishing  was  allowed  (though  not  essential 
for  the  festival),  for  the  reason  of  the  beginning  (which  was 
necessary  ;  i.e.,  if  it  would  not  have  been  allowed  to  finish  them, 
they  would  not  have  been  begun).  They  are :  The  skin  for  the 
tanner,  the  shutters  of  the  shops,*  and  the  replacing  of  a  plaster 
(on  the  priest's  hand  f)  in  the  Temple.     And  Rhaba  said  in  the 

*  It  means  that  he  would  not  slaughter  the  animal  at  all  if  he  would  not  be  sure 
that  the  skin  would  not  be  spoiled  ;  and  so  he  would  not  open  the  shop  to  take  out 
what  was  necessary  for  the  festival,  if  he  would  not  be  allowed  to  shut  it  again,  and 
the  festival  would  be  without  enjoyment. 

f  As  the  priest  is  not  permitted  to  do  his  work  of  sacrificing  when  there  is  some- 
thing between  (Hatzitzah,  intervention)  his  hand  and  the  victim. 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  21 

name  of  Rabh  Jehudah  the  Babylonian  Amora  :  -^  The  same  is  the 
case  when  one  opens  a  barrel  or  begins  to  knead  dough  on  the 
festival  (he  may  stop  up  the  barrel,  or  finish  the  kneading,  be- 
cause he  would  not  begin  if  he  were  not  permitted  to  finish,  and 
his  enjoyment  of  the  festival  would  not  be  complete),  and  this 
is  according  to  Rabbi  Jehudah  the  Tana,  who  said  (in  Hagigah, 
p.  52),  he  shall  finish  it. 

Our  Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  Tana  of  the  follow- 
ing Boraitha  :  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said  :  The  schools  both  of 
Shammai  and  Hillel  agree  that  the  shutters  may  be  removed  on 
the  festival ;  they  differ  only  about  the  replacing  of  them.  Beth 
Shammai  do  not  permit  this,  and  Beth  Hillel  allow  even  this. 
But  this  is  in  case  there  are  hinges,  but  if  there  is  none  all  agree 
it  is  permitted.  But  have  we  not  learned  in  another  Boraitha 
the  contrary  of  this?  Said  Abayi  :  It  can  be  explained  so:  If 
the  hinges  are  at  the  sides  of  the  shutters,  all  agree  it  is  pro- 
hibited ;  t  if  there  are  no  hinges  at  all,  all  agree  it  is  permissible. 
They  differ  only  on  this  point  when  the  hinges  are  in  the  middle : 
Beth  Shammai  prohibit  it  as  a  precautionary  measure,  lest  one 
think  it  permissible  also  even  when  they  are  at  the  sides,  and 
Beth  Hillel  think  such  a  precautionary  measure  is  not  to  be  taken. 

MISHNA:  A  child,  a  Lulab  (a  branch  of  a  date-tree),  holy 
scrolls,  must  not  be  carried  in  public  ground  according  to  Beth 
Shammai ;  but  Beth  Hillel  allow  it. 

GEMARA :  In  the  presence  of  R.  Itz'hak  bar  Abdimi  one 
Tana  taught  as  follows :  If  one  slaughters  a  voluntary  offering 
on  a  festival,  he  is  liable  to  the  penalty  of  stripes.  Said  R. 
Itz'hak  to  him  :  According  to  whom  is  your  teaching?  That  is 
only  according  to  Beth  Shammai,  who  do  not  hold  the  theory 
that  because  it  is  permitted  to  carry  things  for  the  purposes  of 
the  festival,  it  is  permissible  to  carry  other  things,  even  when 
they  are  not  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the  festival ;  but  ac- 
cording to  Beth  Hillel,  who  hold  this  theory,  we  can  say,  because 
slaughtering  for  the  festival  is  permitted,  slaughtering  for  other 

*  Rashi  says  :  To  some  people  it  is  doubtful  if  it  was  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah 
the  second,  or  R.  Jehudah  the  disciple  of  Samuel  ;  but  I  say,  he  added,  that  Rhaba, 
who  was  from  Pumbeditha,  had  never  seen  R.  Jehudah  the  second,  as  we  do  not  find 
that  he,  sometime  in  his  life,  ever  went  to  Palestine.  Moreover,  it  is  said  elsewhere 
that  no  one  was  so  particular  in  his  study  as  Rhaba  of  Pumbeditha,  and  we  must 
assume  that  Rhaba  was  so  particular  that  he  would  not  leave  in  his  words  any  doubt 
about  the  man  in  whose  name  he  said  it ;  and  if  it  was  Jehudah  the  second,  he  would 
have  certainly  mentioned  it. 

f  As  when  the  hinges  are  at  the  sides,  it  is  very  difficult  to  remove  and  replace. 


22  THE  BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

purposes  is  also  permitted,  consequently  he  is  not  liable  to  stripes. 
R.  Johanan's  opinion  is  also  that  Beth  Shammai  and  Beth  Hillel 
differ  about  the  acceptation  of  the  above  theory. 

Because  a  disciple  has  taught  in  the  presence  of  R.  Johanan 
thus :  If  one  cooks  the  sinew  which  shrank  [Gen.  xxxii.  33]  in 
milk  on  a  festival,  and  eats  it,  he  is  liable  to  five  times  stripes : 
once  for  cooking  the  sinew,  once  for  eating  it,  once  for  cooking 
meat  in  milk,  once  for  eating  meat  with  milk,  and  once  for  kin- 
dling a  fire  on  the  festival.  And  R.  Johanan  said  to  him :  Go 
with  thy  teaching  out  of  the  college,  because  for  kindling  a  fire 
and  cooking  on  the  festival  he  is  not  liable  for  stripes,  according 
to  the  teaching  of  the  Mishna  ;  and  even  if  you  would  find  a 
Mishna  which  is  in  accordance  with  your  teaching,  it  could  be 
only  according  to  the  school  of  Shammai,  who  deny  the  theory 
that,  because  it  is  permitted  to  kindle  a  fire  and  to  cook  for  the 
purposes  of  the  festival,  it  is  permissible  also  for  other  purposes ; 
then,  according  to  the  school  of  Hillel,  who  agree  with  this  theory, 
no  Mishna  could  teach  so.  Now  then,  when  kindling  and  cook- 
ing are  permitted  on  the  festival,  you  must  remove  the  stripes 
for  cooking  and  kindling  out  of  the  whole  case. 

MISHNA:  It  is  unlawful,  according  to  Beth  Shammai,  to 
carry  to  the  priest  on  a  festival  the  first  dough  (Halah)  or  other 
gifts,  whether  they  had  been  set  apart  for  that  purpose  on  that 
day  or  on  the  preceding  day.  Beth  Hillel,  however,  allow  this. 
Said  Beth  Shammai :  Let  us  say  to  them :  Is  there  not  an 
analogy  of  expression  in  both  ?  First  dough  and  other  priestly 
dues  are  called  gifts  to  the  priest  (Matanoth) ;  and  heave-offering 
(Terumah)  is  also  called  gifts  to  the  priest.  Now,  as  the  last  is 
prohibited,  the  same  must  be  the  case  with  the  first?  Rejoined 
Beth  Hillel:  Nay,  how  can  the  gifts  be  compared  to  heave-offer- 
ing ?  The  last  one  is  not  allowed  to  be  set  apart  on  the  festival, 
whereas  other  gifts  may. 

GEMARA :  At  the  first  glance,  the  teaching  of  the  Mishna, 
"whether  it  had  been  set  apart  on  the  same  day,"  would  seem  to 
mean  that  it  was  slaughtered  and  set  apart  on  the  same  day,  and 
the  expression,  "  the  preceding  day,"  would  seem  to  mean  that  it 
was  slaughtered  also  on  that  day.  If  it  is  so,  however,  according 
to  whose  opinion  would  the  Mishna  be  ?  Not  according  to  R. 
Jose,  not  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  but  according  to  the  anony- 
mous teachers.  As  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha  : 
R.  Jehudah  said  :  Beth  Shammai  and  Beth  Hillel  do  not  differ 
about  the  gifts   that  were  set   apart  on  the  eve  of  a  festival, 


TkACt  BETZAH  (VOM  TOB).  23 

whether  they  might  be  brought  together  with  the  gifts  set  apart 
and  slaughtered  on  the  festival.  What  they  differ  in  is  only 
whether  those  set  apart  on  the  eve  of  the  festival  might  be  brought 
to  the  priest  separately.  Beth  Shammai  do  not  allow  this,  and 
Beth  Hillel  permit  it.  R.  Jose,  however,  said  that  the  above  schools 
do  not  differ  about  gifts  at  all,  but  only  about  the  heave-offering  ; 
but  an  anonymous  teacher  said  that  they  never  differ  about  the 
heave-offering,  which  is  prohibited  according  to  all,  but  only 
about  other  gifts.  Hence  our  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  the 
anonymous  teachers.  Said  Rabha :  Did  the  Mishna  teach  that 
they  were  set  apart  and  slaughtered  on  the  same  day?  They 
were  set  apart  on  that  day,  but  may  have  been  slaughtered  on  the 
previous  day.  Then  the  Mishna  will  be  according  to  R.  Jehudah 
only,  but  not  according  to  the  anonymous  teachers?  Nay,  we 
may  say  it  is  in  accordance  with  the  anonymous  teachers  also,  but 
the  point  on  which  they  differ  would  be  the  gift  that  had  been 
slaughtered  on  a  preceding  day.  If  it  is  so,  the  anonymous  teachers 
would  say  the  same  as  R.  Jehudah?  Nay,  there  is  a  difference 
about  the  adding  of  the  gifts  set  apart  on  the  preceding  day  to 
those  set  apart  on  the  festival  itself  (according  to  R.  Jehudah  it 
may  be  done,  and  according  to  the  anonymous  teachers  it  may 
not).  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  The  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  R.  Jose. 

R.  Tubbi  the  son  of  R.  Nehemiah  possessed  one  pitcher  of 
wine  of  heave-offering  on  a  festival,  and  he  came  to  R.  Joseph 
and  asked  him  :  Can  I  give  it  away  to  the  priest  to-day  ?  And 
the  answer  was,  that  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  declared 
the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jose  (who  permits). 

The  host  of  an  inn  where  Rabha  bar  R.  Hanan  was  staying, 
possessed  bundles  of  mustard  stalks,  and  he  asked  his  guest : 
May  I  thrash  it  and  eat  it  on  a  festival  ?  And  he  did  not  know 
the  law.  And  he  came  before  Rabha,  who  told  him  :  We  have 
learned  in  a  Tosephta,  one  may  pluck  ears  or  crush  pea-pods  to 
get  out  the  grains  or  peas  on  a  festival.  Abayi  objects  :  We  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha :  Whoso  has  plucked  ears  on  the  eve  of 
Sabbath,  he  may  blow  away  chaff  on  the  Sabbath  from  one  hand 
into  another,  and  eat,  but  not  sieve.  If  he  has  done  it  on  the  eve 
of  a  festival,  he  may  sieve  it  on  the  next  day  in  a  small  but  not  a 
large  sieve  (that  it  may  not  be  thought  he  does  it  for  the  next 
day).  Hence  it  seems  from  this  that  to  do  it  on  the  festival 
itself  is  not  allowed.  Rabha  answered  :  The  same  would  be  the 
case  on  the  festival  itself.     But  as  in  the  first  part  it  is  said  :  On 


S4  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  eve  of  Sabbath,  so  in  the  last  part  he  speaks  of  the  eve  of  the 
festival.  (Said  Abayi  again  :)  If  it  is  so,  then  we  find  a  case  in 
which  it  is  allowed  to  set  apart  heave-offering  on  a  festival  (as 
it  is  usually  taken  from  a  quantity  of  grains,  not  ears) ;  and  here, 
when  he  thrashes  the  ears  for  the  purpose  of  eating  the  grain,  you 
allow  him  to  separate  the  heave-offering  of  it,  for  otherwise  he 
is  not  allowed  to  eat,  and  in  our  Mishna  it  is  plainly  stated  that 
the  heave-offering  is  not  allowed  to  be  set  apart  on  the  festival. 
Rabha  answered  :  It  presents  no  difficulty.  Elsewhere  it  is  said, 
according  to  Rabbi's  opinion  heave-offering  may  be  separated  on 
the  festival,  and  only  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah  opposed  him,  and  our 
Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  the  latter. 

How  shall  one  pluck  (a  change  from  the  ordinary  week-day 
manner  there  must  be)?  Abayi  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose  said  :  He 
shall  pluck  it  with  the  thumb  and  the  index-finger.  But  R.  Ivya 
upon  the  same  authority  said  :  The  thumb  and  the  two  fingers 
next  to  it.  Rabha,  however,  said  :  As  soon  as  he  does  it  in  a 
peculiar  manner,  the  number  of  fingers  he  employs  is  a  matter  of 
no  great  consequence. 

How  shall  one  blow?  R.  Adda  bar  A'hba  said  in  the  name 
of  Rabh  :  He  shall  blow  only  off  his  fingers  (but  not  the  palms). 
But  in  Palestine  they  ridiculed  this,  saying  that,  provided  he  does 
it  in  a  peculiar  manner,  he  may  employ  his  palms  also.  There- 
fore R.  Elazar  said  :  He  may  blow  it  off  one  hand  with  his  whole 
might  (but  must  not  use  the  other). 

MISHNA:  Spices  may  be  pounded  on  a  festival  with  a 
wooden  pestle  only,  and  salt  with  an  earthenware  jug,  or  with  a 
large  wooden  spoon,  according  to  Beth  Shammai.  But  Beth 
Hillel  say :  Spices  may  be,  as  usual,  pounded  with  a  stone  pestle, 
and  salt  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

GEMARA :  From  this  we  see  that  all  agree  that  salt  must  be 
pounded  in  a  different  manner.  Why?  R.  Huna  and  R.  Hisda  : 
One  said,  because  all  the  dishes  must  have  salt,  but  not  all 
the  dishes  must  have  spices ;  and  the  other  said,  all  the  spices 
lose  their  fragrance,  but  not  salt.  What  is  the  difference  between 
the  two?  If  one  knows  on  the  eve  of  a  festival  what  dish  he  will 
prepare  on  the  morrow?  According  to  the  former  it  needs  a 
peculiarity  (because  he  could  have  prepared  it  on  the  eve) ;  and 
according  to  the  latter  it  needs  not,  because  had  he  prepared  it 
on  the  eve  the  spices  would  lose  their  fragrance. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  however,  said  :  All  that  is 
pounded  maybe  pounded  on  a  festival  as  on  week-days,  even  salt. 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  25 

Did  we  not  say  above,  that  salt  must  be  pounded  differently  ? 
He  holds  with  the  Tana  of  the  following  Boraitha :  R.  Meir  said  : 
Both  schools  of  Shammai  and  Hillel  never  differ  about  the  point 
that  all  things  may  be  pounded  on  a  festival  as  on  week-days, 
and  salt  when  it  is  among  them :  what  they  differ  about  is, 
whether  it  may  be  done  so  when  it  is  separate.  According 
to  Beth  Shammai  it  must  be  pounded  with  an  earthenware  jug 
or  a  large  wooden  spoon ;  and  only  in  a  quantity  needed  for 
roasting,  but  not  for  stewing  into  a  pot ;  but  Beth  Hillel  allow 
any  quantity. 

R.  Alia  Bardla  said  to  his  son  :  If  it  shall  happen  that  you 
will  have  to  pound  something  on  a  festival,  you  should  incline 
your  mortar,  and  then  pound  (i.e.,  he  shall  make  some  change  in 
the  manner  of  pounding).  R.  Shesheth  heard  on  a  festival  the 
sound  of  pounding  in  a  mortar,  and  he  said  :  It  is  surely  not  in 
my  house.  Why  was  he  sure  ?  Perhaps  the  mortar  was  inclined  ? 
Because  he  could  infer  from  the  sound  that  this  was  not  so.  Per- 
haps they  were  pounding  spices?  Then  the  sound  would  have 
been  different. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Ptisana  *  must  not  be  made  on  a  festival, 
for  nothing  may  be  pounded.  But  a  small  quantity  may  be 
pounded  in  a  small  mortar. 

It  once  happened  that  R.  Papa  was  the  guest  of  Mar  Samuel, 
and  Ptisana  was  offered  him,  but  he  did  not  partake  of  it.  Why  ? 
Perhaps  it  had  been  done  in  a  small  mortar?  He  did  not  choose 
to  trust  his  host's  servants,  because  they  were  disobedient. 

MISHNA:  When  one  picks  pulse  on  a  festival,  he  may, 
according  to  Beth  Shammai,  only  pick  out  the  eatable  part  and 
eat  it ;  but  according  to  Beth  Hillel  he  may  pick  it  as  usual  in 
his  lap,  in  a  basket  with  holes,  or  in  a  large  dish,  but  not  on  a 
large  table,  or  through  a  small  or  large  sieve.  Rabban  Gamaliel 
says  :  It  is  also  lawful  to  pour  water  thereon,  and  remove  the  part 
not  fit  to  eat,  by  hand. 

GEMARA :  We  learn  in  a  Boraitha :  Said  R.  Gamaliel :  The 
Mishna  refers  to  a  case  when  there  was  more  of  the  eatable  part 
than  of  the  part  unfit  for  eating ;  but  if  the  opposite  was  the  case, 
then  all  agree  that  he  may  take  out  only  the  eatable  part  and 
leave  the  rest.  Is  there  any  one  who  is  allowed  to  do  as  usually 
even  when  the  unfit  part  was  larger  than  the  rest  ?  R.  Gamaliel 
meant  to  say,  that  even  when  the  quantity  of  the  unfit  part  was 

*  Latin  for  a  dish  of  pounded  barley. 


26  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

small,  but  to  pick  it  out  would  be  more  trouble  than  to  pick 
out  the  eatable  part,  all  agree  that  he  shall  do  what  gives  less 
trouble. 

"  Rabban  Gamaliel  said^  etc.  We  have  learned  in  a  Borai- 
tha :  R.  Elazar  bar  Zadok  said :  Such  was  the  custom  in  the 
house  of  Rabban  Gamaliel  :  They  usually  brought  a  pail  full  of 
lentils  and  poured  water  on  it,  and  the  eatable  part  settled 
down,  while  the  unfit  part  remained  floating ;  but  another  Borai- 
tha  states  the  contrary  (that  the  unfit  part  settles  down,  etc.)  ? 
It  presents  no  difficulty :  the  straw  floats  above,  but  if  there  is 
any  dust  or  other  such  matter,  it  sinks. 

MISHNA :  It  is  unlawful  for  one  to  send  to  another  as  a 
present  on  the  festival  anything  but  eatables,  according  to  Beth 
Shammai.  Beth  Hillel,  however,  permit  to  send  even  cattle, 
game,  and  poultry,  either  slaughtered  or  alive ;  also  presents  of 
wine,  oil,  fine  flour,  and  pulse,  but  not  grain.  R.  Simeon  allows 
also  to  send  grain. 

GEMARA  :  R.  Je'hiel  taught :  This  is  permissible  only  when 
he  sends  it  by  a  few  persons,  but  not  by  a  whole  Hne  of  men. 
A  Boraitha  taught  that  a  line  is  not  constituted  by  less  than 
three  men. 

"  R.  Simeon!'  etc.  A  Boraitha  taught :  R.  Simeon  permits 
to  send  grain ;  e.g.y  wheat,  to  make  of  it  a  dish  which  the  inhabi- 
tants of  Lydia  used  to  make  (by  grinding  the  grains  of  wheat) ; 
barley,  to  give  it  to  cattle ;  and  lentils,  to  make  of  them  a 
dish. 

MISHNA  :  It  is  also  permitted  to  send  clothes,  sewed  or  not, 
even  of  *'  Kelayim,"  in  case  they  can  be  used  on  the  festival,  but 
not  sandals  with  iron  nails  or  unfinished  shoes.  R.  Jehudah 
says:  White  shoes  may  not  be  sent  either,  because  an  artificer  is 
required  to  make  them  fit  for  use.  This  is  the  general  rule : 
Whatever  can  be  used  on  the  festival,  may  be  sent  as  a  present 
thereon. 

GEMARA  :  It  is  right  that  sewed  clothes  should  be  permitted 
on  a  festival,  because  they  can  be  used,  and  clothes  not  sewed 
may  also  be  used  for  covering ;  but  how  can  Kelayim  be  used  ? 
The  Mishna  meant  to  say  rough  clothes  which  can  be  used  for 
sitting  upon,  and  this  is  according  to  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R. 
Joshuah,  who  said  that  felt  of  the  city  of  Narash  (which  was 
rough)  might  be  worn  even  if  in  it  is  Kelayim  (linen  and  wool 
mixed  together). 

'^ But  not  sandals,''  etc.     What  is  the  reason?     Because  once 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  27 

an  accident  occurred."^  Said  Abayi :  Sandals  with  iron  nails 
must  not  be  worn,  because  an  accident  happened  on  account  of 
them,  but  they  may  be  handled  ;  and  this  we  infer  from  our 
Mishna,  which  says  that  they  shall  not  be  sent,  and  if  it  were  dis- 
allowed to  handle  them,  it  would  be  self-evident  that  they  could 
not  be  sent. 

"  Or  unfinished  shoes''  Is  it  not  self-evident  ?  The  Mishna 
means  to  say  that  even  if  there  were  nails  in  them  already  (so 
that  they  could  be  put  on),  yet  being  unfinished,  they  might  not 
be  sent. 

''  R.  Jehudah  says,''  etc.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  :  R. 
Jehudah  permits  to  send  black  shoes,  but  not  white,  because  lime 
is  needed  to  make  them  white  ;  and  R.  Jose  prohibits  black  shoes, 
because  they  must  be  polished.  They  do  not  disagree,  however. 
Both  speak  of  the  customs  in  their  respective  places.  In  the 
place  of  one  Master  the  skin  of  the  shoes  had  the  inner  side  turned 
out,  and  therefore  it  had  to  be  made  white ;  while  in  the  other 
the  opposite  was  the  case,  and  polishing  was  needed. 

''  This  is  the  general  rtile,"  etc.  R.  Shesheth  permitted  to  his 
disciples  to  send  phylacteries  on  a  festival.  Said  Abayi  to  him  : 
Did  not  we  learn  in  our  Mishna,  only  a  thing  which  can  be  used 
on  the  festival  may  be  sent  (and  phylacteries  are  not  used  then)  ? 
And  he  answered  :  The  Mishna  meant  to  say  things  fit  to  be 
used  on  a  week-day  may  be  sent  on  a  festival.  Said  Abayi : 
When  the  phylacteries  are  spoken  of  we  would  like  to  say  some- 
thing: If  one  was  on  the  road  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  or  of  a  fes- 
tival, and  the  Tefilin  were  on  his  head  and  the  sun  set,  he  may 
lay  his  hand  on  the  Tefilin  and  thus  come  to  his  home.  The  same 
is  the  case  when  he  was  sitting  in  the  house  of  learning  and  the 
Tefilin  were  on  his  head,  he  may  lay  his  hand  on  them  until  he 
comes  home. 

*Sce  Tract  Sabbath,  p.  116. 


CHAPTER  II. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING  THE  COMBINING    OF    COOKERY  ON    A  FESTI- 
VAL   PRECEDING    A    SABBATH. 

MISHNA  :  When  the  festival  falls  on  Friday,  it  is  unlawful 
to  prepare  thereon,  on  purpose,  any  food  for  the  Sabbath,  but  for 
the  festival  alone,  and  whatever  remains  may  be  used  for  the 
Sabbath  ;  and  one  may  prepare  on  the  eve  of  the  festival  one 
dish  for  the  Sabbath  especially,  and  then  he  may  continue  cook- 
ing on  the  festival  for  the  Sabbath.  Beth  Shammai,  however,  say  : 
Two  dishes  are  necessary  ;  Beth  Hillel  say :  One  is  sufficient. 
Both,  however,  agree  that  fish  and  egg  upon  it  may  be  considered 
as  two  dishes.  If  the  dish  thus  prepared  has  been  eaten  or  lost, 
nothing  more  may  be  cooked  in  addition  to  it ;  but  if  any  small 
portion  whatever  is  left,  it  suffices. 

GEMARA :  Whence  is  this  deduced?  Said  Samuel:  It  is 
written  [Ex.  xx.  8] :  "  Remember  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it 
holy  "  ;  from  which  we  infer  that  we  should  remember  it  when 
we  are  liable  to  forget  it  [i.e.,  when  it  is  holiday  already,  one  can 
forget  it).  Our  Tana,  however,  infers  this  from  the  following 
passage  [ibid.  xvi.  23]  :  *'  What  ye  shall  bake,  bake  to-day ;  and 
what  ye  shall  seethe,  seethe  to-day."  From  this  R.  Elazar  in- 
ferred that  it  shall  not  be  baked  unless  same  is  baked  already, 
and  it  shall  not  be  cooked  unless  same  is  cooked  already.  And 
this  is  used  by  the  sages  as  a  biblical  support  to  the  law  of  the 
combining  of  cookery. 

The  rabbis  taught :  It  once  happened  that  R.  Eliezer  was 
sitting  and  lectured  a  whole  day  (of  the  festival)  about  the 
laws  relating  to  festivals.  The  first  part  of  his  audience  arose 
and  went  out,  and  R.  Eliezer  said  :  These  people  must  have 
great  barrels  of  wine,  and  they  are  in  a  hurry  to  drink  them. 
The  second  portion  of  the  audience  went  away,  and  he  said  : 
These  people  must  have  smaller  barrels.  Of  the  third  part 
he  remarked :  They  must  have  cans.  Of  the  fourth  he  said  : 
They  must  have  licgs.  When  the  fifth  part  left  him,  he  said  : 
They  must  have  only  goblets.     When  the  sixth  part  began  to 


TRACT   BETZAH    (YOM   TOB).  29 

depart,  he  said :  They  are  worthy  to  be  scolded  (because  the 
college  began  to  be  empty).  At  the  same  time  he  looked  upon 
his  disciples  and  saw  the  color  of  their  faces  was  changed,  and  he 
said  to  them  :  My  children,  I  did  not  mean  you.  I  spoke  only 
about  those  people  who  leave  eternal  life  for  temporar)^  affairs. 
When  his  disciples  were  going  away,  he  said  to  them  [Nehem. 
viii.  10]  :  ''  Go  your  way,  eat  fat  things,  drink  sweet  drinks,  and 
send  portions  unto  him  for  whom  nothing  is  prepared  ;  for  this 
day  is  holy  unto  our  Lord  :  and  do  not  grieve  yourselves ;  but 
let  the  joy  of  the  Lord  be  your  stronghold." 

The  Master  says :  ''  Because  they  leave  eternal  life  for  tem- 
porary affairs."  Is  not  the  enjoying  of  the  festival  a  religious 
duty  ?  R.  Eliezer  said  this  in  accordance  with  his  theory  that 
the  enjoying  of  a  festival  is  not  obligatory,  as  we  learned  in  the 
following  Boraitha  :  R.  Eliezer  said  :  A  man  has  nothing  to  do 
on  a  festival  but  either  to  eat  and  drink  the  whole  day,  or  to  sit 
and  study  ;  but  R.  Joshuah  said  :  He  must  divide  the  day — one- 
half  of  it  for  eating  and  drinking,  and  one-half  of  it  for  religious 
purposes.  Said  R.  Johanan  :  The  above  both  sages  deduce  from 
the  following  verse  [Deut.  xvi.  8]  :  "  On  the  seventh  day  shall  be 
a  solemn  assembly  unto  the  Lord  thy  God "  ;  another  verse 
[Num.  xxix.  35]:  **  An  assembly  shall  be  to  you."  How  can 
the  contradiction  between  these  two  verses  be  explained  ?  R. 
Eliezer  explains  it  thus :  The  whole  day  shall  be  either  for  you 
or  for  the  Lord;  but  R.  Joshuah  explains  it  thus:  Divide  the 
day — one-half  for  the  Lord  and  one-half  for  you.  Said  R. 
Elazar  :  ^  All  agree  that  on  Pentecost  the  day  must  be  partly 
devoted  to  one's  self  also.  Why  so  ?  Because  on  this  day  the 
law  was  given  to  Israel,  and  we  must  enjoy  it.  Said  Rabha:  All 
agree  also  that  on  a  Sabbath  the  day  must  be  devoted  to  one's 
self  also.  Why?  Because  it  is  written  [Is.  Iviii.  13]:  "Thou 
shalt  call  the  Sabbath  a  delight."  And  R.  Joseph  said  :  All 
agree  that  on  the  festival  of  Purim  the  day  must  also  be  devoted 
to  one's  self,  as  it  is  written  [Esther,  ix.  22]  :  '*  To  make  them  days 
of  entertainment  and  joy."  Mar  the  son  of  Rabina  was  fasting 
the  whole  year  except  on  Pentecost,  Purim,  and  the  eve  of  the 
Day  of  Atonement  :  Pentecost,  because  the  law  was  given ; 
Purim,  because  they  are  days  of  joy  and  entertainment  ;  and  the 
eve  of  the  Day  of  Atonement,  for  a  reason  that  is  explained  in 
Tract  Yomah,  p.  129. 

*  This  is  transferred  from  Pesachim,  p.  68,  b. 


36  tHE  BABYLONIAN  TALMUD. 

R.  Joseph  on  the  days  of  Pentecost  used  to  say  to  his  domes- 
tics :  Prepare  for  me  a  calf  which  is  the  third-born  (of  the  third 
birth),  saying:  If  not  this  day  be  the  reason,  how  many  Josephs 
are  there  abroad  !  (and  but  for  the  law,  he  would  not  be  distin- 
guished among  them). 

R.  Shesheth  used  to  repeat  his  studies  every  thirty  days,  and, 
supporting  himself  against  the  wall  of  the  college,  said :  Rejoice, 
my  soul !  Rejoice,  my  soul !  For  thy  sake  I  have  read,  for  thy 
sake  I  have  studied. 

What  is  meant,  in  the  above  verse  of  Nehemiah,  by  "  send 
portions  to  those  for  whom  nothing  is  prepared "  ?  Said  R. 
Hisda :  It  refers  to  those  men  who  have  not  made  an  Erub  Tab- 
shilin  (combining  of  cookery).  What  is  meant  by  ''  let  the  joy  of 
the  Lord  be  your  stronghold  "  ?  Said  R.  Johanan  in  the  name 
of  R.  Elazar  bar  Simeon :  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  said  to 
Israel :  My  children,  borrow  money  for  my  sake,  and  rejoice  on 
the  holy  day,  and  trust  to  me,  I  shall  pay  it. 

R.  Tachlipha  brother  of  Rabanai  Huzaah  taught :  All  the  nec- 
essaries of  a  man  are  appointed  for  him  in  the  Heavenly  Court 
in  the  ten  days  between  New  Year  and  the  Day  of  Atonement, 
except  the  expenses  for  Sabbath,  the  festivals,  and  the  studies  of 
his  children  :  the  amount  for  these  purposes  appointed  for  him 
in  Heaven  is  the  same  as  that  which  he  spends  (and  varies  with  it). 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  :  It  was  said  that  Shammai  the 
Elder  used  to  eat  all  days  for  the  honor  of  Sabbath.  When 
he  found  a  good  animal,  he  used  to  say :  This  shall  be  for  Sab- 
bath. But  when  he  found  a  better  one,  he  ate  the  former, 
and  left  the  better  one  for  Sabbath ;  but  Hillel  the  Elder  had 
another  habit :  Because  all  his  deeds  were  for  the  sake  of  Heaven, 
as  it  is  written  [Ps.  Ixviii.  20]  :  *'  Blessed  be  the  Lord  !  day  by  day 
he  loadeth  us  with  benefits "  (trusting  in  God  to  provide  for 
Sabbath  at  the  proper  time).* 

"■  One  may  prepare  on  the  eve  of  the  festival  one  dish,''  etc. 
Said  Abayi :  Only  a  dish  is  good  for  the  purpose,  but  bread  alone 
is  not.  Why  so?  Shall  we  assume  it  is  required  to  have  an 
article  of  food  which  is  not  often  eaten,  and  bread  is  always  eaten, 
then  a  dish  of  disa  (mush),  which  is  rarely  eaten,  is  nevertheless 
disallowed  by  R.  Nehuma  bar  Zachariah  in  the  name  of  Abayi  ? 
The  reason  is  this :  One  must  have  a  thing  which  can  be  eaten 

*  The  saying  of  R.  Johanan  here  is  transferred  in  our  edition  from  here  to  Tract 

Sabbath,  p.  i3,  as  it  belongs  there. 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  31 

with  bread,  and  disa  cannot  be  eaten  with  bread.  As  it  hap- 
pened that  R.  Zera  saw  people  eating  disa  with  bread,  he  said  : 
The  Babylonians  are  fools,  they  eat  bread  with  bread  ! 

R.  Hiya  taught  :  Lentils  which  are  on  the  bottom  of  a  pot 
may  be  used  as  an  Erub  Tabshilin,  if  the  quantity  is  of  the  size 
of  an  oHve.  R.  Itz'hak  the  son  of  R.  Jehudah  said  that  the  fat  of 
a  fowl,  if  it  is  of  the  size  of  an  oHve,  may  be  similarly  used.  And 
R.  Abha  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  The  prescribed  quantity 
for  an  Erub  is  the  size  of  an  olive,  and  it  is  sufficient  for  one 
or  for  one  hundred  persons.  Said  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of 
Rabh  :  The  combining  of  cookery  must  be  done  intentionally. 
It  is  certain  that  the  person  who  makes  the  Erub  must  have  the 
intention,  but  how  is  it  with  the  person  for  whom  the  Erub 
is  made  ?  Is  his  intention  also  needed,  or  is  it  not  ?  Come  and 
hear :  The  father  of  Samuel  made  an  Erub  for  all  the  inhabitants 
of  Nehardai,  and  R.  Ammi  and  R.  Assi  made  an  Erub  for  the 
whole  population  of  Tiberia  (hence  the  intention  of  those  for 
whom  the  Erub  is  made  is  not  necessary). 

R.  Jacob  bar  Idi  proclaimed  :  Everybody  who  has  not  made 
an  Erub  Tabshilin  shall  rely  on  my  Erub  Tabshilin  (and  shall  do 
the  preparing  for  Sabbath).  And  at  what  distance?  Said  R. 
Nehuma  bar  Zachariah  in  the  name  of  Abayi :  As  far  as  the  legal 
limit  of  Sabbath  (2,000  ells). 

There  was  a  blind  man  who  had  classified  Mishnaioth  before 
Mar  Samuel ;  and  Mar  Samuel  saw  he  was  downcast.  And  he 
asked  him  :  Why  are  you  downcast  ?  And  he  answered  :  Because 
I  have  not  made  an  Erub  Tabshilin.  Said  Mar  Samuel  to  him  : 
Rely  upon  mine.  The  next  year  he  saw  him  again  sad,  and  got  the 
same  answer,  and  Mar  Samuel  rejoined  :  If  it  is  so,  you  are  a 
transgressor  (you  have  not  made  one  intentionally).  All  can  rely 
upon  my  Erub  Tabshilin,  but  not  you. 

The  rabbis  taught :  On  a  festival  which  happens  to  be  on 
Friday,  the  Erub  of  legal  hmit  and  the  Erubin  of  courts  are  not 
to  be  made.  Rabbi,  however,  said  :  The  Erub  of  legal  limit  is 
not  to  be  made,  but  the  Erubin  of  courts  may,  because  you  can 
prohibit  one  to  do  a  thing  for  to-morrow  which  he  may  not  do 
to-day  ;  but  you  cannot  forbid  a  man  to  do  a  thing  for  to-morrow 
which  he  may  do  to-day  (Erubin  of  courts  are  needed  only  for 
Sabbath,  but  not  on  festivals).  It  was  taught  :  Rabh  said  the 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  first  Tana,  but  Samuel  said 
the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  Rabbi. 

The  rabbis  taught :  On  a  fest^'val  following  on   Sabbath  one 


Z2  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

shall  say  eight  benedictions ;  that  is  to  say,  the  Sabbath  benedic- 
tion separately.  Beth  Hillel,  however,  said  :  One  shall  pronounce 
seven  benedictions,  and  he  shall  begin  and  close  with  Sabbath, 
and  shall  include  the  holiness  of  the  day.  Rabbi  said  :  He  shall 
close  with  the  benediction  :  ''  Blessed  be  He  who  sanctifies  the 
Sabbath,  Israel,  and  the  festivals."  A  disciple  taught  in  the 
presence  of  Rabina :  ''  Who  sanctified  Israel,  the  Sabbath,  and 
the  festivals,  "  and  Rabina  rejoined  :  Does  Israel  then  sanctify  the 
Sabbath  ?  The  Sabbath  is  itself  holy  :  Say  then  :  *'  Who  sanc- 
tified the  Sabbath,  Israel,  and  the  festivals."  Said  R.  Jose  :  The 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  Rabbi  as  interpreted  by  Rabina. 

The  rabbis  taught :  On  a  Sabbath  following  on  the  first  day  of 
the  month,  or  any  day  of  the  intermitting  days,  one  shall  pro- 
nounce in  the  three  prayers  of  evening,  morning,  and  Min'ha  seven 
benedictions;  and  concerning  the  festival  he  shall  include  the 
prayer  about  the  return  of  the  Temple-service,  and  if  he  has 
omitted  it  he  must  begin  all  again.  But  in  the  Additional  Prayer 
he  shall  begin  and  close  with  the  benediction  of  Sabbath,  and  the 
holiness  of  the  day  shall  be  included. 

Rabban  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  and  R.  Ishmael  the  son  of  R. 
Johanan  b.  Broka  say  that  whenever  there  are  seven  benedictions, 
he  shall  begin  and  close  with  Sabbath,  and  the  benediction  of  the 
day  shall  be  included.  Said  R.  Huna:  The  Halakha  does  not 
prevail  in  accordance  with  last  pair. 

R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said  :  One  may  lay 
an  Erub  of  legal  limit  on  the  first  day  of  a  festival  (in  exile, 
where  two  days  are  kept)  with  a  condition,  if  the  right  day  of  the 
festival  is  to-day,  then  the  Erub  is  null  and  void,  because  one  can 
go  to-morrow  without  any  Erub  at  all;  and  if  the  right  day 
of  the  festival  is  the  next  day,  this  Erub  shall  be  for  that 
day.  Said  Rabha :  The  same  is  the  case  with  the  Erub  for 
cookery. 

The  rabbis  taught :  It  shall  not  be  baked  from  one  festival 
day  for  another.  It  was  truly  said  that  a  woman  may  fill  a  whole 
pot  with  meat  though  she  do  not  need  more  than  one  piece  (for 
that  day).  The  same  is  the  case  with  a  baker,  who  may  fill  a 
whole  barrel  with  water,  though  he  need  only  one  can  (for  the 
day) ;  but  it  is  not  allowed  to  bake  except  as  much  as  is  needed 
for  the  day.  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar,  however,  said,  that  a  woman 
(not  a  baker)  may  fill  a  whole  oven  with  bread,  because  it  is  better 
baked  when  the  whole  oven  is  full.  Said  Rabha  :  The  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  the  latter. 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  33 

The  schoolmen  propound  a  question  :  If  one  has  not  made  an 
Erub  Tabshilin,  is  he  only  prohibited  to  do  anything  for  Sabbath, 
but  not  his  flour?  Or  is  his  flour  also  forbidden?  What  is 
the  difference  ?  To  transfer  his  flour  to  others,  if  you  say  the 
flour  is  not  prohibited,  then  another  one  can  take  his  flour  and 
prepare  for  him  ;  but  if  you  say  his  flour  is  prohibited,  then  he 
must  transfer  it.  Come  and  hear :  One  who  has  not  made  an 
Erub  Tabshilin  must  not  bake  nor  cook  nor  save  either  for  him- 
self or  for  others,  nor  may  others  do  it  for  him  ;  but  what  shall 
he  do  (to  eat  something  on  Sabbath)?  He  shall  transfer  his  flour 
to  others,  and  then  they  may  bake  and  cook  for  him.  From  this 
Vve  infer  that  both  he  and  his  flour  are  prohibited. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question  :  How  is  it  if  one  has 
transgressed  and  baked  without  an  Erub?  Come  and  hear:  If 
one  has  not  made  an  Erub  Tabshilin,  etc.  (as  mentioned  above). 
Now,  if  it  would  be  allowed  to  eat,  why  does  not  the  Boraitha 
state  that  if  one  has  transgressed  and  has  baked,  it  is  allowed  to 
eat  ?  Said  R.  Adda  b.  Mathna :  From  this  nothing  can  be 
inferred.  The  Tana  advises  only  how  to  dispose  for  a  man,  he 
shall  be  able  to  prepare  something  in  accordance  with  the  Law  ; 
but  when  one  has  acted  against  the  Law,  this  Tana  does  not 
speak  of  it  at  all.  Come  and  hear  another  Boraitha:  If  one  has 
made  an  Erub  Tabshilin,  he  may  bake,  cook,  and  save,  and  if  he 
wants  the  Erub,  it  is  allowed  ;  but  if  he  has  eaten  the  Erub 
before  he  has  baked  or  saved,  then  he  is  not  allowed  to  bake, 
cook,  or  save  either  for  himself  or  for  others,  neither  are  others 
allowed  to  do  so  for  him.  He  may,  however,  cook  for  the  festi- 
val and  use  what  is  left  on  the  Sabbath,  provided  he  does  not  do 
it  cunningly  {i.e.,  he  shall  not  add  so  much  that  he  shall  have  suffi- 
cient for  the  whole  Sabbath),  and  when  he  does  it  cunningly  he 
must  not  use  it  for  the  Sabbath.  (Hence  we  see,  that  if  he 
acted  against  the  Law,  it  is  prohibited.)  Said  R.  Ashi :  The 
case  of  cunning  is  different,  because  the  rabbis  were  very  rigor- 
ous with  such.  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  said  :  The  Boraitha  which 
said  that  cunning  is  prohibited  is  not  at  all  in  accordance  with 
the  decision  of  the  rabbis,  but  of  an  individual,  Hananiah,  who 
taught  it  in  accordance  with  the  decision  of  Beth  Shammai,  as  it 
is  to  be  understood  from  the  following  :  Hananiah  said  :  Beth 
Shammai  declare :  One  shall  not  bake  unless  he  has  made  an 
Erub  with  bread  ;  one  shall  not  cook  unless  he  has  made  it  with 
something  cooked  ;  and  one  shall  not  save,  unless  he  has  already 
saved  warm  water  for  the  Sabbath.  Beth  Hillel,  however, 
3 


34  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

said  :  One  may  make  an  Erub  with  something  cooked,  and 
through  it  he  may  prepare  everything. 

**  Beth  Shammai  say  two  dishes^'  etc.  Our  Mishna  is  not  in 
accordance  with  the  Tana  of  the  following  Boraitha :  R.  Simeon 
b.  Elazar  said :  Both  schools  agree  that  two  dishes  are  needed. 
In  what  they  differ  is  about  a  fish  and  o-gg  which  is  upon  it. 
According  to  Beth  Shammai  it  is  considered  as  two  dishes,  but 
according  to  the  school  of  Hillel  it  is  considered  only  as  one  dish. 
Both  agree,  however,  that  if  one  put  in  a  cooked  ^gg  in  the  fish 
or  x^^^^''-^^^  iri  the  cooked  fish,  it  is  considered  as  two  dishes. 
Said  Rabha :  The  Halakha  prevails  as  our  Tana  and  according  to 
Beth  Hillel. 

''  If  it  has  been  eaten  or  lost,''  etc.  Said  Abayi :  We  have  a 
tradition  that  he  who  has  begun  to  knead  dough  and  heard  mean- 
while that  the  Erub  was  lost,  may  finish  his  work  nevertheless, 

MISHNA:  When  the  festival  falls  after  a  Sabbath,  Beth 
Shammai  say :  Everything  requiring  purification  must  be  im- 
mersed before  the  Sabbath.  But  Beth  Hillel  say  :  Vessels  must 
be  immersed  before  the  Sabbath,  and  human  beings  on  the  Sab- 
bath. Both  schools  agree  that  water  which  has  become  polluted 
may  be  purified  by  pouring  it  into  an  earthenware  vessel,  but  not 
on  earth  itself.  It  is  lawful,  however,  to  dip  vessels  whose  original 
appropriation  has  been  altered,  and  men  may  bathe  when  they 
have  changed  from  one  company  to  another  (to  eat  the  Paschal 
lamb).^- 

GEMARA:  We  see  from  this  Mishna  that,  according  to  all, 
a  vessel  must  not  be  dipped  on  Sabbath.  Why  so?  Said  R. 
Bibbi :  It  is  a  precautionary  measure,  lest  one  leave  the  vessels 
unclean  on  the  week-days  for  purification  on  Sabbath.  We  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha  in  support  to  R.  Bibbi :  A  vessel  which  has 
become  unclean  on  the  eve  of  the  festival  must  not  be  dipped  on 
the  festival ;  and  this  is  a  precautionary  measure,  as  the  one 
above  mentioned.  Rabha,  however,  said  :  The  reason  why  one 
must  not  immerse  on  Sabbath  is  that  it  would  seem  as  if  one 
repaired  the  vessel.  If  it  is  so,  why  may  a  man  bathe  on  Sab- 
bath (and  a  man  cannot  eat  Terumah,  etc.,  when  he  has  not 
bathed).  A  man  is  different,  as  it  can  be  said  that  he  is  doing  so  to 
cool  himself.  That  would  be  right,  if  he  bathed  in  pure  water; 
but  if  he  immerses  himself  in  turbid  water?  Said  R.  Na'hman 
bar  Itz'hak :  It  happens  that  a  man  becomes  heated,  and  then 


*  See  Tract  Pesachim,  Chap.  IX.,  Mishna  I. 


TRACT   BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  35 

he  bathes  even  in  water  in  which  flax  has  been  steeped,  to  cool 
himself.  This  would  be  right  in  summer-time,  but  what  can  be 
said  if  he  does  it  in  winter-time  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak : 
It  may  happen  a  man  becomes  dirty  and  soiled,  and  then  con- 
siders not  the  quality  of  the  water.  All  this  is  right  on  a  Sab- 
bath, but  what  would  be  the  law  on  a  Day  of  Atonement  ?  Said 
Rabha :  Do  you  find  something  allowed  to  be  done  on  Sabbath 
that  is  not  allowed  on  the  Day  of  Atonement  ?  (Therefore,  be- 
cause  it  is  permitted  on  Sabbath,  it  is  permitted  also  on  the  Day 
of  Atonement.) 

''  Biit  not  on  earth  itself T  What  is  meant  by  this?  Said 
Samuel :  Pie  may  bring  it  in  contact  with  water  of  a  legal  bath, 
but  not  in  an  unclean  vessel. 

According  to  whom  is  our  Mishna?  As  it  is  not  according 
to  Rabbi,  nor  according  to  the  sages  of  the  following  Boraitha  : 
One  must  not  immerse  the  vessel  with  the  water  therein  to  purify 
it,  nor  bring  it  in  contact  with  water  in  a  stone  vessel  to  purify 
the  water  therein  :  so  is  the  decree  of  Rabbi.  The  sages,  how- 
ever, permitted  both.  (Hence  according  to  whom  is  the  Mishna  ?) 
We  may  say  that  it  is  according  to  the  sages'  opinion,  and  the 
Mishna  refers  not  to  purification  on  a  week-day  but  on  Sab- 
bath. 

"  Whose  original  appropriation  has  been  altered,''  etc.  The 
rabbis  taught :  If  one  wishes  to  immerse  his  vessels  for  the  pur- 
pose of  filling  them  with  the  oil  of  newly  crushed  olives,  and 
afterv/ards  changes  his  mind  and  resolves  to  crush  the  olives  in 
them,  or  vice  versa ,  he  may  do  so.  If  one  was  engaged  to  eat 
the  Paschal  lamb  with  one  company,  and  thereafter  he  changed 
his  mind  to  eat  with  another  company,  he  might  do  so. 

MISHNA:  One  may  bring  peace-offerings  on  the  festival, 
but  not  lay  his  hands  on  them  ;  *  and  burnt-offerings  may  not  be 
brought  at  all — according  to  Beth  Shammai.  Beth  Hillel,  how- 
ever, allow  all  this. 

GEM  ARA :  Said  Ula :  The  point  on  which  both  schools 
differ  is  the  laying  of  the  hands  on  the  peace-offerings  of  the 
feast  and  whether  burnt-offerings  of  the  pilgrimage  may  be 
sacrificed  at  all.  Beth  Shammai  hold :  It  is  written  [Ex.  xii. 
14]:  *' Ye  shall  celebrate  it  as  a  feast  unto  the  Lord''  \  it,  i.e., 
the  peace-offering,  but  not  the  burnt-offering.  But  Beth  Hillel 
say :    "  unto   the    Lord " :    that    signifies,    all    that    is    unto    the 

*  See  Lev.  i.  4, 


36  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Lord  is  allowed.  But  vows  and  voluntary  offerings,  all  agree, 
are  not.  Such  also  is  the  opinion  of  R.  Adda  bar  A'hba. 
An  objection  was  raised  :  We  have  learned  elsewhere  (in  addi- 
tion to  this  Mishna) :  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said  :  Both  schools  do 
not  differ  concerning  a  burnt-offering  which  does  not  belong  to 
the  festival,  that  it  must  not  be  offered,  and  also  that  peace-offer- 
ings which  belong  to  the  festival  may  be  offered.  In  what  they 
differ  is,  when  the  burnt-offering  belo7igs  to  this  festival  and  con- 
cerning the  peace-offerings  which  do  not  belong  to  this  festival. 
According  to  Beth  Shammai  they  must  not  be  offered,  and  accord- 
ing to  Beth  Hillel  they  may.  (Hence  we  see  that  according  to 
both,  vow  and  voluntary  offerings  are  to  be  offered  on  the  festi- 
val ?)  Answer  this  objection  that  the  saying  of  R.  Simeon  b. 
Elazar  must  read  thus  :  He  said,  Both  schools  do  not  differ  when 
the  burnt  and  peace-offerings  do  not  belong  to  this  festival,  that 
they  must  not  be  offered,  and  the  peace-offering  which  belongs  to 
this  festival,  that  it  may ;  they  differ  only  about  a  burnt-offering 
which  belongs  to  this  festival,  that  according  to  Beth  Shammai  it 
must  not,  and  according  to  Beth  Hillel  it  may.  Said  R.  Joseph  : 
Is  it  necessary  to  make  out  the  Boraitha  as  erroneous  because  of 
the  saying  of  Ula  ?  Are  there  not  other  Tanaim  who  differ  on 
this  point,  and  Ula's  saying  can  be  according  to  them  ?  As  we 
have  found  in  the  following  Boraitha :  Peace-offerings  which 
belong  to  this  festival,  when  they  are  to  be  offered  on  it,  Beth 
Shammai  said  :  He  may  lay  his  hands  upon  it  on  the  eve  of  the 
festival,  and  it  shall  be  slaughtered  on  the  festival ;  Beth  Hillel, 
however,  said  :  Both  may  be  done  on  the  festival ;  but  vow  and 
voluntary  offerings  must  not  be  ofTered  on  the  festival. 

And  the  Tanaim  of  the  following  Boraitha  differ  on  the 
same  point :  One  must  not  bring  thanksgiving-offerings  on  all 
days  of  Passover,  because  they  contain  unleavened  bread ; 
nor  on  Pentecost,  because  it  is  a  festival ;  but  he  may  bring 
them  on  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  (on  the  intermitting  days). 
R.  Simeon,  however,  said:  It  is  written  [Deut.  xvi.  i6]  :  *' On 
Passover,  on  Pentecost,  and  on  the  Feast  of  Booths."  From 
this  we  may  infer  that  all  that  may  be  brought  on  Passover 
and  Pentecost,  may  be  brought  also  during  the  Feast  of  Taber- 
nacles ;  but  what  must  not  be  brought  on  the  first  two,  one 
may  not  on  the  third.  R.  Eliezer  b.  R.  Simeon,  however, 
said  :  One  may  bring  thanksgiving-offerings  during  the  Feast  of 
Tabernacles,  and  by  this  will  be  fulfilled  the  duty  of  enjoying 
the  holiday,  but  not  the  duty  of  bringing  a  feast-offering.     Is  not 


TRACT   BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  37 

this  self-evident  ?  Are  not  the  feast-offerings  a  duty,  and  it  is  cer- 
tain that  a  duty  must  be  brought  of  a  profane  (ordinary)  quaHty  ? 
He  means  to  teach  us,  that  even  if  one  has  expHcitly  said  that 
he  intends  the  thanksgiving-offering  also  for  a  feast-offering,  nev- 
ertheless the  duty  of  the  feast-offering  is  not  fulfilled.  As  R. 
Simeon  b.  Lakish  asked  of  R.  Johanan  :  If  one  say,  ''  I  will  bring 
a  thanksgiving-offering,  and  with  this  I  will  fulfil  the  duty  of  a 
feast-offering  "  ;  or,  "  I  will  be  a  Nazarite,  but  when  I  shall  bring 
the  offering  after  shaving,*  I  will  take  it  from  the  second  tithe 
money,"  what  is  the  law?  And  R.  Johanan  answered  him:  He 
must  bring  a  thanksgiving-offering,  but  the  duty  of  the  feast- 
offering  is  not  fulfilled  ;  he  is  a  Nazarite,  but  cannot  bring  the 
shaving-offering  from  the  second  tithe  money. 

It  once  happened  a  man  said  :  Give  four  hundred  Zuz  to  a 
certain  man,  and  he  shall  marry  my  daughter.  Said  R.  Papa : 
The  four  hundred  Zuz  must  be  given  to  him,  and  the  daughter, 
if  he  likes  her,  he  can  marry,  but  not  otherwise.  The  reason  is, 
because  he  has  said  first,  "  give  him  the  money  "  ;  [but  if  he  had 
mentioned  the  daughter  first  he  would  get  the  money  only  if  he 
married].  If  he  had  said  :  He  shall  marry  and  take  the  money, 
then  he  must  marry  her  first.  Meremar  was  sitting  and  declar- 
ing the  Halakha  in  his  own  name.  Said  Rabbina  to  him :  You 
teach  this  as  if  it  were  a  Boraitha ;  we,  however,  learn  it  as  the 
question  of  Resh  Lakish  from  R.  Johanan,  mentioned  above,  and 
the  decision  is  R.  Johanan's. 

The  rabbis  taught :  It  happened  to  Hillel  the  Elder  that  he 
brought  his  burnt-offering  to  the  Temple-court  for  laying  hands 
on  it  on  the  festival.  The  disciples  of  Shammai  the  Elder,  how- 
ever, surrounded  him,  and  asked  him  :  What  is  the  matter  with 
this  animal  ?  And  he  answered  :  It  is  a  female,  and  I  have 
brought  it  for  a  peace-offering.  And  he  shook  the  animal's  tail, 
and  they  went  away.  And  on  that  day  the  school  of  Shammai 
took  the  upper  hand  over  Beth  Hillel,  and  the  people  wanted  to 
decide  the  Halakha  according  to  them  ;  but  one  old  man  was 
there  among  the  disciples  of  Shammai  the  Elder,  Baba  ben  Butta 
by  name,  who  was  certain  that  the  Halakha  prevailed  according 
to  Beth  Hillel.  And  he  sent  and  brought  of  the  best  sheep  of 
Jerusalem,  and  placed  them  in  the  Temple-court,  and  said : 
Everybody  who  wants  to  lay  his  hands  upon  them  shall  come 
and  do  so.     And  on  that  day  Beth   Hillel  took  the  upper  hand, 

*  See  Num.  vi.  q. 


^S  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

and  the  Halakha  was  decided  according  to  them,  and  no  objec- 
tion was  made  by  anybody. 

Again,  it  happened  once  that  a  disciple  of  Beth  Hillel  brought 
his  burnt-offering  into  the  Temple-court  for  the  purpose  of  laying 
his  hands  upon  it,  and  a  disciple  of  the  school  of  Shammai  met 
him  and  said:  Why  the  handling?  And  he  replied:  Why  are 
you  not  silent  ?  So  he  silenced  him  with  a  rebuke,  so  that  he 
went  away.  Said  Abayi  :  From  this  we  may  infer  that  if  a  young 
scholar  says  to  another  a  few  words,  the  answer  shall  not  be  more 
lengthy  than  the  remark  which  was  addressed,  as  we  have  seen 
in  the  case  of  the  two  disciples,  when  he  asked  him  :  *'  Why  the 
laying  of  the  hands  ?  "  he  answered  him  :  "  Why  not  be  silent  ?  " 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  The  disciples  of  Hillel 
said  to  the  disciples  of  Shammai:  (Is  not  this  an  a  fortiori?) 
If  on  Sabbath,  when  all  things  to  be  done  for  a  human  being 
are  prohibited,  nevertheless  in  honor  of  the  Lord  all  is  per- 
mitted ;  on  a  festival,  when  all  things  necessary  for  a  human 
being  may  be  done,  so  much  the  more  everything  may  be  done 
for  the  Lord  {i.e.,  and  why,  then,  shall  a  burnt-offering  of  the 
pilgrimage  not  be  sacrificed  ?).  And  they  answered :  You  can 
infer  this  from  voluntary  and  vow  offerings,  that  are  permissible 
for  a  human  being,  and  nevertheless  even  you  own  that  they 
must  not  be  sacrificed  on  a  festival.  Said  Beth  Hillel  again : 
There  is  no  comparison  here  because  voluntary  and  vow  offerings 
have  no  appointed  times.  The  burnt-offerings,  however,  have 
stated  times.  Rejoined  Beth  Shammai :  Nay,  even  these  have 
no  appointed  time,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Mishna :  One  who  has 
not  brought  his  feast-offering  on  the  first  day  of  a  festival  may 
do  it  during  the  whole  festival  and  even  on  its  last  day.  Re- 
joined Beth  Hillel  again  :  Is  this  not  a  fixed  time?  As  we  have 
learned  in  another  Mishna,  if  one  has  not  brought  a  feast-offering 
during  the  whole  festival,  he  is  no  longer  responsible  to  do  it 
(consequently  there  is  a  stated  time  for  it,  and  if  we  will  prohibit 
him  from  bringing  it  on  the  first  day  of  the  festival,  he  may  not 
bring  it  any  more  at  all).  Said  Beth  Shammai  again  :  Has  it  not 
been  said  in  the  verse,  *'  an  assembly  shall  be  unto  you,"  which 
may  signify  for  your  sake  and  not  for  the  Lord's  sake?  And 
they  answered  :  Does  not  another  verse  say  :  **  An  assembly 
shall  be  unto  the  Lord  "  ?  Whence  we  may  infer  that  all  which 
is  in  honor  of  the  Lord  shall  be  done.  And  from  the  expression 
*'  unto  you  "  we  may  infer  ''  for  your  sake  but  not  for  the  sake  of 
strangers." 


TRACT   BETZAH   (YOM   TOB).  39 

R.  Ivlah  the  Elder  asked  R.  Huna :  An  animal  which  is  half 
a  Gentile's  and  half  an  Israelite's,  how  is  the  law  of  slaughtering 
it  on  a  festival  ?  And  he  answered :  One  may  do  it.  And  he 
asked  him  again :  What  is  the  difference  between  this  and  volun- 
tary vow-offerings  ?  And  he  replied  :  A  raven  flew  away.  When 
R.  Iviah  was  gone,  said  Rabba,  R.  Huna's  son,  to  his  father : 
Was  this  not  R.  Iviah  the  Elder,  whom  you  praised  to  me  as 
a  great  man  ?  And  he  answered  :  What  could  I  have  done  with 
him  ?  I  am  to-day  weak,  I  have  lectured,  and  need  what  is  writ- 
ten in  Song  of  Songs,  ii.  5,  to  "  strengthen  me  with  flagons  of 
wine,  refresh  me  with  apples  "  ;  and  he  asked  me  a  thing  of  which 
the  reason  must  be  explained  (at  length).  [And  in  reality,  what 
is  the  reason  ?  This :  An  animal  which  is  half  a  Gentile's  and 
half  an  Israelite's  may  be  slaughtered  on  a  festival,  because  if  one 
wants  to  eat  meat  even  the  size  of  an  olive,  he  cannot  take  it 
from  the  animal  when  it  is  still  alive,  but  it  must  be  slaughtered ; 
and  as  this  animal  belonged  half  to  an  Israelite,  he  can  certainly 
slaughter  it.  But  vow  and  voluntary  offerings,  they  are  con- 
sidered all  for  Heaven,  and  although  the  priests  eat  some  of 
their  meat,  this  is  only  because  of  their  reward  from  Heaven,  and 
not  from  the  one  who  brings  the  offerings.] 

Dough,  however,  which  is  half  an  Israelite's  and  half  a  Gen- 
tile's, is  not  to  be  baked  on  the  festival,  because  it  can  be  divided 
when  it  is  yet  dough.  R.  Hana  bar  Hanilai  objects :  We  have 
learned  of  dough  made  for  dogs,  if  the  shepherd  can  eat  of  it, 
one  is  liable  to  take  of  it  first  dough,  and  may  make  an  Erub 
with  it,  and  may  use  it  for  the  combining  of  the  entrance ; 
and  the  benediction  of  eating  may  be  said  over  it,  and  if 
three  or  more  men  had  eaten  of  it,  they  may  pronounce  the 
benediction  of  the  meal,  and  it  may  be  baked  on  the  festival, 
and  the  man  who  eats  it  (when  it  is  not  leavened)  on  the  first 
evening  of  Passover  has  done  his  duty  of  eating  Matzah. 
Now,  if  it  is  possible  to  divide  it  when  it  is  dough,  why  should 
it  be  baked  on  a  festival  (let  him  set  apart  the  portion  for  the 
dogs,  and  bake  for  himself)  ?  The  dough  for  the  dogs  is  dif- 
ferent ;  because  one  can  give  a  carcass  to  the  dogs,  instead  of  the 
dough.  But  does  R.  Hisda  hold  the  supposition  of  because? 
Was  it  not  taught  (Vol.  V.,  p.  74)  that  R.  Hisda  is  against  this 
supposition  ?  Say,  the  case  is  when  the  shepherd  has  a  carcass 
and  intends  to  do  so. 

R.  Huna  was  asked :  May  the  inhabitants  of  Baga,  who 
had  the   duty  to  give  bread  to  the  militar>%  bake  it  on  the  festi- 


40  THE'   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

val?  And  he  answered:  Let  us  see.  If  the  soldiers  are  not 
particular  when  one  takes  a  piece  of  the  bread  and  gives  it  to 
a  child,  then  of  every  loaf  we  can  say  :  "  This  is  fit  for  a  child," 
and  it  may  be  baked.  But  if  they  are  particular,  it  may  not  be  so 
done.  But  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha  as  follows  :  It  once 
happened  to  Simeon  of  Teman  that  he  did  not  visit  the  house  of 
learning  on  a  festival  day.  On  the  morrow  Jehudah  b.  Baba 
asked  him  :  Why  wast  thou  not  yesterday  in  the  house  of  learn- 
ing ?  And  he  answered  :  Military  were  coming  yesterday  into 
the  city,  and  wanted  to  rob  the  whole  city ;  and  we  slaughtered 
for  them  calves,  and  made  them  eat,  and  they  went  away  in  peace. 
Rejoined  R.  Jehudah  b.  Baba :  I  wonder  whether  your  loss  was 
not  greater  than  your  benefit,  for  the  Torah  teaches  "  unto  you," 
but  not  unto  Gentiles.  (They  should  not  have  done  work  for  the 
soldiers.)  Now,  why?  Were  not  the  calves  fit  for  Israelites  also? 
Said  R.  Joseph  :  The  calves  were  Terepha.  * 

But  was  it  not  fit  for  dogs  when  the  owners  are  obliged  to  feed 
them  ?  The  Tanaim  of  the  following  Boraitha  differ  about  this 
law  :  It  is  written  [Ex.  xii.  i6]  :  **  Save  what  is  eaten  by  every 
soul,  that  only  may  be  prepared  for  you."  From  the  expression 
**  every  soul,"  we  may  infer,  even  a  soul  of  an  animal,  as  we  find 
[in  Leviticus  xxiv.],  *'  he  that  taketh  the  soul  of  an  animal  shall 
pay  for  it."  Therefore  the  verse  says  plainly,  "  for  you,"  and  not 
for  dogs.  So  said  R.  Jose  the  Galilean.  R.  Aqiba,  however, 
said  :  For  all  souls,  even  souls  of  animals,  are  included.  But  for 
what  purpose  is  it  written  ''  for  yoii  "  ?  To  indicate  only  animals 
for  whose  support  you  are  responsible,  but  not  for  strangers,  for 
whose  support  you  are  not  responsible.  Rabha  accompanied 
Mar  Samuel  to  the  pulpit  and  the  latter  lectured :  One  may 
invite  a  Gentile  on  Sabbath,  but  not  on  a  festival  day,  because  on 
a  festival  day  he  may  increase  the  Israelite's  work  in  his  behalf. 
When  a  Gentile  guest  came  to  Maremar  or  to  Mar  Zutra  on  a  festi- 
val day,  they  said  to  him  :  If  you  are  satisfied  with  what  we  have 
already  done  for  ourselves,  then  you  are  welcome ;  and  if  not, 
you  must  excuse  us,  because  we  must  not  do  any  work  for 
you. 

MISHNA:  It  is  prohibited  to  boil  water  on  the  festival  for 
the  purpose  of  washing  the  feet,  unless  the  water  is  also  fit  to 
drink,  according   to   Beth  Shammai.     But  Beth  Hillel  allow  it. 


*  Legally  prohibited  to  be  eaten  by  Israelites,  as  will  be  explained  in  Tract 
Hulin. 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  41 

(All  agree,  however,)  that  a  fire  is  to  be  made  for  the  sole  pur- 
pose of  warming  himself  by  it. 

In  three  things  Rabban  Gamaliel  decides  like  the  school  of 
Shammai  more  rigorously,  namely :  They  prohibit  to  commence 
to  preserve  the  heat  of  pots  for  Sabbath  on  its  eve,  when  it  hap- 
pens to  be  a  festival ;  to  put  together  the  pieces  of  a  candela- 
brum ;  and  to  bake  large  loaves,  but  only  thin  cakes.  Rabban 
Gamaliel  said  :  They  never  used  to  bake  in  my  father's  house 
large  loaves  on  the  festival,  but  only  thin  cakes.  The  sages, 
however,  said  to  him  :  What  does  this  usage  of  your  father's 
family  prove,  who  though  strict  in  this  respect  nevertheless 
allowed  all  Israel  to  bake  on  the  festival  large  loaves  and  thick 
cakes  ? 

GEMARA:  How  is  the  case?  If  an  Erub  Tabshilin  was 
made,  why  do  Beth  Shammai  prohibit  it  ?  And  if  none  was  made, 
why  do  Beth  Hillel  permit  it?  Said  R.  Huna  :  It  maybe  ex- 
plained, when  the  case  is  that  an  Erub  Tabshilin  was  not  made, 
but  nevertheless  what  is  necessary  for  one's  life,  the  sages  permit. 
And  this  is  according  to  his  theory  elsewhere,  where  he  said  : 
If  one  has  not  made  an  Erub  Tabshilin,  one  loaf  and  one  pot 
may  be  baked,  and  cooked  for  him,  and  also  light  may  be  kin- 
dled for  him.  In  the  name  of  R.  Itz'hak  it  was  said :  They  may 
roast  for  him  also  a  small  fish.  The  same  we  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha,  with  the  addition  that  one  pitcher  of  water  may  be 
heated  for  him.  Rabha,  however,  said  :  The  Mishna  can  be  ex- 
plained also  thus :  that  an  Erub  Tabshilin  was  made,  and  never- 
theless Beth  Shammai  prohibit  it,  because  the  preserving  of  the 
heat  everybody  can  see  is  done  only  for  Sabbath. 

*'  To  put  together  pieces  of  a  candelabrum^  What  labor  is  in 
it?  Said  R.  Hin'na  bar  Bisna :  This  refers  to  a  candelabrum 
whose  parts  have  to  be  screwed  together,  and  is  regarded  like  an 
act  of  building  (construction)  (see  Tract  Sabbath,  p.  266). 

It  happened  once  that  Ula  came  to  R.  Jehudah ;  his  servant 
incHned  the  lamp  so  that  the  wick  should  sooner  be  extin- 
guished (by  the  oil  being  out  of  its  reach).  R.  Jehudah  ob- 
jected :  Did  we  not  learn  that  whoso  puts  oil  into  the  lamp  is 
culpable  of  kindling  fire  ?  and  whoso  removes  the  oil  therefrom  is 
culpable  of  extinguishing?  Answered  Ula:  The  servant  did  it 
without  my  knowledge. 

Rabh  said  :  To  snuff  a  lamp  on  a  festival  is  permitted. 
Abayi  asked  Rabba :  How  is  the  law  to  extinguish  a  con- 
flagration on   a   festival?     When  there  is  danger  of  loss  of  life 


42  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

I  do  not  ask,  for  it  is  allowed  even  on  a  Sabboth ;  what  I  ask  is, 
when  there  is  a  pecuniary  loss  only?  He  answered:  It  is  not 
permitted.  Abayi  objected  to  him  :  Did  we  not  learn  :  A  chip 
of  wood  must  not  be  extinguished  in  order  to  save  it.  However, 
for  preventing  the  house  or  the  pot  from  being  filled  with  smoke, 
it  is  permitted  ?  He  rejoined  :  This  is  in  accordance  with  R. 
Jehudah,  but  my  decision  is  in  accordance  with  the  majority  of 
the  rabbis. 

R.  Ashi  asked  Amemar :  How  is  the  law  to  paint  the  eyes 
(for  a  medical  purpose)  on  a  festival  ?  When  there  is  danger,  e.g.y 
when  they  prick,  or  are  bloodshot,  or  drip,  or  drop  tears  continu- 
ally, or  are  in  fever  at  the  first  stages,  it  is  not  doubtful  to  me,  as 
this  is  allowed  even  on  a  Sabbath.  Where  I  am  uncertain  is, 
when  they  are  almost  cured,  and  the  painting  is  done  only  for 
improving  the  sight?  He  decided  that  it  is  not  allowed.  R. 
Ashi  objected  to  him  with  the  same  Boraitha  which  Abayi 
objected  to  Rabba  as  stated  above,  and  Amemar's  answer  was 
the  same. 

Amemar  himself,  however,  used  to  dye  his  eyes  through  a  Gen- 
tile on  the  Sabbath.  Said  R.  Ashi  to  him  :  What  is  your  opinion 
in  doing  it  ?  Because  Ula  the  son  of  R.  Ilai  said  :  All  that  is 
necessary  for  a  sick  man  may  be  done  through  a  Gentile  on 
Sabbath.  And  also  R.  Hamnuna  said  :  All  things  which  are 
not  dangerous,  it  may  be  said  to  a  Gentile  that  he  should 
do  them.  But  when  is  this  the  case  ?  When  the  Gentile  does 
it  himself  without  assistance  from  the  Israelite.  But  you, 
Master,  assist  him  in  his  dyeing  by  your  opening  and  closing 
the  eyes.  And  he  answered :  There  is  R.  Zbid,  who  has  also 
asked  the  same  question,  and  I  answered  him  that  assistance 
is  not  considered  a  labor  at  all.  The  same  Amemar  allowed 
that  one  should  dye  his  eyes  on  the  second  day  of  New  Year. 
Said  R.  Ashi  to  him :  Did  not  Rabha  say  that  in  the  two  days 
of  New  Year  the  case  is  different  with  an  ^%g  (see  above,  p.  8)  ? 
And  he  answered  :  My  opinion  is  as  that  of  the  sages  of  Nehardai, 
who  say  there  is  no  difference. 

'■'■  To  bake  large  loaves,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught  :  The  school  of 
Shammai  said  :  Thick  loaves  must  not  be  baked  on  the  Pass- 
over. Beth  Hillel  permit  it.  What  are  called  thick  loaves?  Said 
R.  Huna  :  If  it  is  a  span  in  thickness,  for  the  showbread  was  thus. 
R.  Joseph  opposed  :  What  comparison  is  this  ?  There  it  is 
related  of  the  specialists,  who  knew  their  work  and  were  careful ; 
there  a  great  deal  of  labor  was  necessary  (as  stated  in  Menahoth, 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM   TOB).  43 

that  the  flour  of  the  showbread  required  three  hundred  oscil- 
lations and  five  hundred  beatings  of  the  fist) ;  there  it  was  baked 
with  dry  wood  (as  stated  in  Taanith,  that  on  the  fifteenth  of  Ab 
they  had  ceased  to  cut  wood  for  the  Temple) ;  there  was  a  hot 
oven  which  was  constantly  fired,  and  it  was  of  iron.  Should  it  be 
compared  to  common  people,  to  common  bread,  to  wet  wood, 
and  a  brick  oven  which  may  not  be  heated  as  required  ? 

Said  R.  Jeremiah  bar  Abha  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  I  have  asked 
especially  our  Master,  our  holy  rabbi,  what  is  meant  by  thick 
loaves  ?  And  he  said  :  A  great  quantity  ;  i.e.,  not  the  loaves  are 
thick,  but  the  quantity  of  the  dough  is  great.  But  why  does 
he  call  them  thick  loaves?  Because  it  is  thick  when  kneaded.  If 
so,  why  is  it  prohibited  only  on  Passover,  why  not  on  other  festi- 
vals also  ?  It  means  also  other  festivals,  but  the  Tana  was  teach- 
ing them  the  laws  of  Passover,  and  therefore  mentioned  that 
festival.  Another  Boraitha  says  plainly :  Much  bread  shall  not 
be  baked  on  a  festival,  according  to  Beth  Shammai ;  but  Beth 
Hillel  allow  it. 

MISHNA:  He  (Rabban  Gamaliel)  decided  the  law  leniently 
in  respect  to  the  following  three  things  :  He  allowed  to  sweep  on 
the  festival  between  the  couches  (or  sofas  on  which  the  ancients 
used  to  eat),  to  put  spices  on  live  coals  (after  meals),  and  to  pre- 
pare a  complete  roasted  kid  on  the  nights  of  Passover  (as  a 
memorial  to  the  Paschal  lamb).     But  the  sages  prohibit  all  these. 

GEMARA :  Said  R.  Assi :  They  differ  only  about  the  enjoy- 
ment of  the  odor  of  the  spices,  when  they  are  already  there  ;  but 
to  put  the  spices  on  the  live  coals,  all  prohibit.  The  schoolmen 
propounded  a  question :  How  is  the  law  to  put  fruit  in  the 
smoke  of  spices  to  flavor  them  on  the  festival  (as  the  custom 
was  to  do)?  R.  Jeremiah  bar  Abha  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said  : 
It  is  prohibited,  but  Samuel  permitted  it.  R.  Huna  said  :  It  is 
prohibited,  because  one  extinguishes  the  live  coals.  Said  to  him 
R.  Na'hman  :  Let  the  Master  say,  because  one  kindles  the  spices  ? 
And  he  answered :  In  the  beginning,  when  he  pours  out  the 
spices  on  the  coals,  he  extinguishes  the  coals,  and  afterwards 
they  kindle.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said :  That  is  prohibited 
only  on  live  coals,  but  in  a  heated  oven  it  is  permitted.  Rabba, 
however,  said  :  This  is  also  prohibited,  because  he  produces  a  new 
odor  in  the  oven.  [Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  both  said  :  It  is  unlawful 
to  cover  a  silk  garment  with  a  goblet  of  spices  on  a  festival  in 
order  to  impart  an  odor  to  it.  Why  so  ?  Because  the  garment 
produces  a  new  odor.      But  why  is  this  different  from  grinding 


44  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

or  cutting  spices  for  smelling,  which  is  allowed  ?  There  the 
odor  is  in  it  when  grinding  or  cutting  them,  the  odor  is  only 
increased,  but  here  he  produces  a  new  odor  altogether.] 

Rabha,  however,  said  :  Even  on  live  coals  it  is  also  permitted, 
because  is  it  not  allowed  to  put  meat  on  hve  coals  for  eating  on 
a  festival?  R.  Gbiha  of  Be-Kthil  at  the  door  of  the  exilarch 
hctured :  Fuming  is  allowed.  Said  Amemar  to  him  :  What 
is  meant  by  fuming?  Does  it  mean  to  perfume  the  sleeves  of  a 
woman's  dress?  This  must  be  done  by  a  specialist,  and  this  is 
certainly  prohibited.  And  if  it  means  to  fume  to  produce  good 
odors,  the  producing  of  a  new  odor  is  not  permitted  also  ?  Said 
R.  Ashi :  /  have  declared  this  law  to  him  and  in  the  name  of  a 
great  man,  that  it  may  be  even  to  produce  a  new  odor,  and  it  is 
nevertheless  permissible,  because  it  is  equal  to  meat  on  live  coals, 
which  is  permitted. 

MISHNA:  Rabbi  Elazar  ben  Azariah  permitted  three  things 
which  the  other  sages  prohibit :  His  cow  was  going  out  on  a  Sab- 
bath with  a  strap  attached  to  her  horns ;  he  permitted  also  to 
curry  cattle  on  the  festival,  and  to  grind  pepper  in  a  pepper-mill. 
R.  Jehudah  says:  It  is  not  permitted  with  an  iron  currycomb, 
because  a  wound  may  be  inflicted ;  but  with  a  wooden  comb  it  is. 
The  sages,  however,  prohibit  both. 

GEMARA :  Did  R.  Elazar  ben  Azariah  possess  but  one  cow? 
Did  not  Rabh,  or  according  to  others  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of 
Rabh,  say  that  thirteen  thousand  calves  used  R.  Elazar  ben 
Azariah  to  give  as  tithes  from  his  cattle  yearly  ?  We  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha  that  the  cow  mentioned  in  our  Mishna  was 
not  his,  but  his  neighbor's,  and  because  he  did  not  protest,  it  was 
considered  as  if  it  was  his  own. 

''  He  also  permitted  to  curry  cattle,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught  : 
What  is  called  *ni^p  ?  An  iron  comb  with  small  teeth,  which 
produces  a  wound.  What  is  called  P^l^^lp  ?  A  wooden  comb 
with  large  teeth,  which  produces  no  wound.  And  three  Tanaim 
differ  about  this  law.  R.  Jehudah  holds  that  if  a  thing  was  done 
even  unintentionally,  it  is  prohibited ;  but  we  do  not  take  a 
precautionary  measure  to  a  wooden  comb,  lest  one  do  it  with 
one  iron  one.  The  sages  are  of  the  same  opinion  as  R.  Jehudah, 
but  they  say  that  such  a  precautionary  measure  may  be  taken. 
R.  Elazar  b.  Azariah,  however,  holds  with  R.  Simeon,  w^ho  said 
that  a  thing  done  unintentionally  is  not  prohibited  at  all,  and 
therefore  he  permits  both.  Said  R.  Na'hman :  The  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  R.  Simeon,  because  R.   Elazar  ben  Azariah 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  45 

agrees  with  him.  Said  Rabha  to  R.  Na'hman :  Why  does  not 
the  Master  say  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehu- 
dah  because  the  sages  agree  with  him  ?  And  he  answered  :  I 
hold  with  R.  Simeon,  and  confirm  my  opinion  because  R.  Elazar 
ben  Azariah  agrees  with  him. 

MISHNA :  A  pepper  hand-mill  is  subject  to  defilement  in 
all  the  three  separate  vessels  whereof  it  is  composed  :  the  upper, 
because  it  is  of  metal ;  the  middle  one,  because  it  is  a  kind  of  a 
sieve  (which  allows  only  the  finely  ground  particles  to  pass 
through) ;  and  the  lower  one,  because  it  is  a  vessel  of  capacity 
(where  the  ground  pepper  is  collected). 

A  child's  cart  is  subject  to  defilement  through  pressure  (as 
will  be  explained  in  Tract  Taharoth),  and  may  be  moved  on  Sab- 
bath from  one  place  to  another,  provided  it  is  dragged  over  cloths 
or  carpets.  R.  Jehudah  said  :  It  is  not  allowed  to  drag  any  piece 
of  furniture  except  such  a  cart,  because  it  makes  but  a  slight  im- 
pression on  the  ground  (and  does  not  remove  the  soil  so  as  to 
make  a  furrow). 

GEMARA :  The  cart  is  subject  to  defilement  through  pres- 
sure, because  the  child  is  in  the  habit  of  sitting  on  it.  It  may  be 
handled  on  Sabbath,  because  it  is  a  vessel ;  and  may  be  dragged 
only  on  pieces  of  cloth,  but  not  over  the  ground  itself,  because  it 
would  make  a  furrow,  and  the  whole  Mishna  is  in  accordance 
with  R.  Jehudah,  who  holds  that  a  thing  which  is  made  uninten- 
tionally, is  also  prohibited  ;  but  according  to  R.  Simeon,  who 
holds  that  it  is  not,  it  may  be  dragged  on  the  ground  also,  no 
matter  if  it  makes  a  furrow. 

APPENDIX    TO    PAGE    42. 

R.  Zutra  bar  Tubiah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  If  an  eye  has  rebelled  (bulges 
out),  it  may  be  painted  even  on  Sabbath.  The  hearers  thought,  that  is  if  the  paint 
was  already  prepared  ;  but  to  prepare  and  bring  it  through  public  ground  on  the 
Sabbath,  it  may  not.  Said  one  of  the  scholars,  whose  name  was  Jacob,  to  them  :  It 
was  explained  to  me  by  R.  Jehudah  that  even  all  this  may  be  done.  R.  Jehudah 
permitted  to  paint  an  eye  on  Sabbath.  Said  R.  Samuel  bar  Jehudah  :  Who  will 
follow  Jehudah,  who  permits  to  violate  the  Sabbath  ?  Finally  himself  had  sore  eyes, 
and  he  sent  to  R.  Jehudah  to  inquire  whether  it  was  permitted  (to  paint  the  eyes)  or 
not,  and  the  answer  was  :  It  is  permitted  to  all,  but  not  to  you  (because  you  have 
rejected  my  decision).  And  in  reality,  was  it  then  my  decision  ?  It  was  Mar  Samuel's. 
When  his  servant  had  fever  in  her  eyes  on  a  Sabbath,  she  cried,  but  none  attended 
her  (because  of  Sabbath).  Finally  the  eye  burst.  On  the  morrow  Mar  Samuel 
lectured  in  public  that  if  an  eye  has  bulged  out  it  may  be  painted  on  Sabbath,  be- 
cause the  veins  of  the  eye  are  connected  with  the  cells  of  the  heart. 

R.  Joshua  b.  Levi  said  :  Unkli  may  be  cured  on  Sabbath.  What  is  "  Unkli"? 
Said  R.  Abba  -.Asthma. — From  Abodah  Zarah,  pp.  2%a-2()b. 


CHAPTER   III. 

REGULATIONS   CONCERNING    FISHING    AND    HUNTING    ON    FESTIVALS. 

MISHNA:  It  is  not  allowed  to  catch  fish  from  aquaria  on 
festivals,  nor  to  give  them  food ;  but  one  may  hunt  beasts  or 
birds  in  parks,  and  feed  them.  Rabban  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  says  : 
Not  all  aquaria  and  parks  are  regarded  in  the  same  light. 
This  is  the  general  rule.  In  case  the  animals  have  to  be 
hunted  it  is  prohibited ;  but  when  no  hunting  is  required,  it  is 
not. 

GEMARA  :  There  is  a  contradiction.  We  have  learned  in  a 
Tosephta  that  in  parks  beasts  and  fowls  must  not  be  caught  on 
the  festival,  and  must  not  be  fed.  The  contradiction  between 
the  Tosephta  and  Mishna  concerning  the  beasts  could  be  explained 
that  the  Tosephta  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah,  who  pro- 
hibits this  (Sabbath,  p.  216);  but  the  contradiction  about  fowls, 
how  can  it  be  explained  ?  And  if  it  be  said,  that  here  also  there 
is  no  difficulty,  because  the  Tosephta  meant  an  unroofed  park, 
while  the  Mishna  spoke  of  a  roofed  park,  did  not  the  Mishna  in 
Tract  Sabbath  state  that  according  to  all  a  fowl  must  not  be 
caught  in  a  house,  and  a  house  is  certainly  meant  a  roofed  one? 
Said  Rabha  bar  R.  Huna:  The  Tosephta  meant  a  bird  called 
Durur  in  Arabic,  which  it  is  very  difficult  to  catch,  and  which 
never  becomes  domesticated.  As  the  disciples  of  R.  Ishmael 
taught:  Why  is  this  fowl  named  Durur?  Because  to  it  the 
house  and  the  field  are  the  same.  Now,  when  we  know  this, 
the  contradiction  about  beasts  can  also  be  explained,  that  the 
Mishna  speaks  of  a  small  park,  and  the  Tosephta  of  a  great 
one,  where  it  is  difficult  to  catch.  What  is  called  a  small  park, 
or  a  great  park?  Said  R.  Ashi :  If  the  shadows  of  the  two  walls 
on  the  ground  touch,  then  it  is  small,  but  otherwise  it  is  great. 

''  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  says^  etc.  Said  R.  Joseph  in  the 
name  of  R.  Jehudah  quoting  Samuel :  The  Halakha  prevails 
according  to  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel.  Said  Abayi  to  him  :  Is 
there  any  one  that  differs  from  him,  that  it  is  necessary  for  you 
to  declare  that  the   Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Simeon  b. 

46 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  47 

Gamaliel  ?  Said  the  former  :  And  what  difference  is  it  to  you  ? 
Rejoined  Abayi :  Shall  the  Gemara  be  like  a  song,  to  learn  it 
without  knowing  any  reason  for  each  decision  ? 

*'  This  is  the  general  rule,''  etc.  What  is  meant  by  "  have  to 
be  hunted  "  ?  The  same  authority  says  in  the  name  of  the  same 
authority :  If  one  must  say,  bring  a  net  to  catch  it.  Said  Abayi 
to  R.  Joseph :  Of  geese  and  chickens  it  is  usually  said,  bring  a 
net,  we  will  catch  them.  Nevertheless  we  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha  that  whoso  catches  geese  and  chickens  is  not  culpable  ? 
Said  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  The  latter 
come  to  their  places  in  the  evening,  and  the  owner  is  responsible 
for  their  feeding  (therefore  whoso  catches  them  is  not  culpable), 
but  animals  of  a  park  do  not  do  so,  and  the  owner  is  not  obliged 
to  feed  them. 

MISHNA:  If  nets  have  been  spread  for  fish  or  wild  game 
on  the  eve  of  a  festival,  it  is  not  allowed  to  take  from  them,  on 
the  festival,  unless  it  is  known  that  they  have  been  caught  be- 
fore its  commencement.  It  once  happened  that  a  Gentile  brought 
on  the  festival  a  present  of  fish  to  Rabban  Gamaliel,  when  he  said  : 
It  is  allowed  to  use  them,  but  I  do  not  wish  to  accept  presents 
from  that  man. 

GEMARA :  Is  the  deed  of  R.  Gamaliel  not  in  contradiction 
with  the  teaching  of  the  Mishna?  The  Mishna  is  not  completed. 
It  must  be  read  thus :  If  it  is  doubtful  whether  a  thing  was  pre- 
pared from  the  day  before,  it  is  prohibited ;  but  R.  Gamaliel  per- 
mits it ;  and  it  once  happened  also  that  a  Gentile  brought  fish  on 
a  festival,  in  the  morning,  as  a  present  to  R.  Gamaliel,  and  he 
said :  They  are  permitted,  etc.  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of 
Samuel  said :  The  Halakha  does  not  prevail  according  to  R. 
Gamaliel.  According  to  others,  R.  Jehudah  declared  his  decision 
about  the  following  Boraitha :  Beasts  from  parks  may  be  slaugh- 
tered, but  not  from  nets  (because  it  is  not  known  on  what  day 
they  were  found  there,  on  the  festival  or  before  it).  R.  Simeon 
b.  Elazar  said  :  If  one  found  the  nets  disturbed  on  the  eve  of 
a  festival,  it  is  certain  that  they  had  been  caught  before  the  festi- 
val, and  they  are  permitted  ;  but  if  he  came  on  the  festival,  and 
saw  them  disturbed,  it  is  certain  they  were  caught  during  the 
festival,  and  they  are  not  allowed.  Is  this  saying  not  contra- 
dictory in  itself?  It  says:  If  he  found  it  disturbed  on  the  eve 
of  a  festival,  it  is  certain  that  they  were  caught  before  the  festi- 
val, and  they  are  allowed,  from  which  it  is  to  be  understood,  that 
if  it  was  doubtful,  it  is  not  allowed  ;  and  in  the  latter  part  it  says : 


48  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

If  he  found  it  disturbed  on  the  festival,  etc.,  it  is  certain  that 
they  were  caught  during  the  festival,  and  they  are  not  allowed, 
from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  when  there  is  a  doubt  it  is 
permissible?  It  means  to  say  thus:  If  he  found  it  disturbed  on 
the  eve,  it  is  certain  that  they  were  already  caught,  and  are  per- 
missible ;  but  if  it  was  doubtful,  it  is  to  be  considered  that  they 
were  caught  on  the  festival,  and  are  not  permissible.  Said  R. 
Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  The  Halakha  prevails  according 
to  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar. 

''  When  he  said,  it  is  allowed^'  etc.  Allowed  what  ?  Rabh 
said  :  They  are  permitted  to  be  received,  but  Levi  said,  they  are 
permitted  to  be  eaten. 

Said  Rabh  :  A  man  should  never  absent  himself  from  the 
house  of  learning,  even  for  one  hour,  because  I  and  Levi  both 
wxre  in  the  college  when  Rabbi  declared  this  Halakha.  In  the 
evening  he  said  :  They  are  permitted  to  be  eaten  ;  but  in  the 
morning  he  said  :  They  are  permitted  to  be  received.  I,  who 
was  in  the  college  in  the  morning  and  heard  his  second  decision, 
gave  up  the  first ;  but  Levi,  who  was  not,  did  not. 

R.  Papa  said  :  The  Halakha  is  as  follows  :  If  a  Gentile  brought 
a  present  to  an  Israelite  on  a  festival,  if  the  same  kind  of  produc- 
tions are  found  yet  on  the  trees  or  ground,  it  is  prohibited  ;  and 
even  in  the  evening,  one  must  wait  till  the  time  when  such  a 
thing  may  be  gathered  and  brought.  But  if  that  kind  of  produc- 
tion is  no  longer  found  on  trees  or  on  the  field,  then,  if  the 
present  has  been  carried  from  within  the  legal  limit,  it  may  be 
accepted,  but  if  from  beyond  the  legal  limit  it  may  not.  And  if 
it  has  been  brought  for  one  Israelite,  another  may  use  it. 

Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  When  one 
has  choked  a  pond,  on  the  eve  of  a  festival,  and  on  the  morrow 
he  found  there  fish,  they  are  permitted.  Said  R.  Hisda  :  From 
the  teaching  of  our  Master  we  can  infer  that  a  beast  which  was 
overnight  in  the  garden  need  not  have  been  prepared  on  the  pre- 
ceding day  (may  be  used).  Said  R.  Na'hman  :  My  colleague  has 
attempted  to  decide  the  quarrel  of  great  men.  In  the  case  of  the 
fish,  the  man  does  nothing ;  but  in  this  case,  he  must  catch  it. 
But  how  could  R.  Hisda  decide  that  it  has  not  to  be  prepared, 
did  we  not  learn  in  a  Boraitha,  that  a  beast  that  was  overnight 
in  a  garden  must  have  been  prepared,  and  a  bird  must  have  had 
its  wings  bound  that  it  should  not  be  exchanged  for  another  ? 
And  this  law  is  one  of  those  which  it  has  been  testified,  that  they 
were  said  by  Shemaia  and  Abtalian  ?     This  objection  remains. 


TRACT  BETZAH  (YOM  TOB). 


49 


MISHNA:  It  is  not  allowed  to  kill  on  a  festival  an  animal 
suffering  from  a  mortal  disease,  unless  there  is  time  to  eat  thereof, 
on  that  day,  at  least  the  size  of  an  olive,  roasted.  Rabbi  Aqiba 
allows  it,  if  there  be  only  time  to  eat  thereof  the  size  of  an  olive, 
raw,  even  in  the  very  place  where  it  is  slaughtered.  If  it  has 
been  killed  in  the  field,  the  entire  carcass  may  not  be  carried 
home  on  poles  or  sticks,  but  only  piecemeal,  by  hand. 

GEMARA:  Said  Rami  bar  Abba:  The  taking  off  the  skin, 
and  the  cutting  of  a  burnt-offering  (which  could  be  burnt  without 
this)  is  only  to  teach  the  latter  generations,  that  one  shall  not  eat 
meat  of  a  slaughtered  animal  before  the  skin  is  taken  off,  and  was 
not  cut  in  the  usual  pieces.  Is  this  also  a  necessary  teaching? 
Yea,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  a  man  shall  not  commence 
eating  garlic  or  onions  from  the  roots,  but  from  the  leaves ; 
otherwise  his  taste  is  coarse.  Likewise,  a  man  should  not  empty 
his  goblet  at  a  draught,  otherwise  he  resembles  a  drunkard.* 

A  Boraitha  states  in  the  name  of  R.  Meir :  Why  was  the  Law 
given  to  Israel  ?  Because  they  are  bold  (difficult  to  be  van- 
quished). The  disciples  of  R.  Ishmael  taught :  It  is  written 
[Deut.  xxxiii.  2]  :  "  From  his  right  hand  he  gave  a  fiery  law  unto 
them."  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  said  :  The  Israelites  are 
so  bold  that  a  fiery  law  must  be  given  to  them.  According  to 
others,  the  law  of  this  people  is  like  fire,  because  if  such  a  law 
had  not  been  given  to  them,  no  nation  and  tongue  could  stand 
before  them.  And  this  is  as  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish  said  :  The 
boldest  nation  of  all  nations  is  Israel.f 

**  T/ie  entire  carcass  may  not  be  brought  on  poles ^  The  rabbis 
taught :  A  blind  man  should  not  walk  with  his  stick  on  a  festival, 
nor  a  shepherd  with  his  bag  (pouch) ;  also,  a  man  must  not  be 
carried  in  a  chair.  It  matters  not  whether  it  is  a  man  or  a  woman. 
This  is  not  so  ?  Did  not  R.  Jacob  bar  Iddi  send  a  message  that 
an  old  man  was  in  his  neighborhood  and  he  was  carried  in  a  litter 
{Lectica),  and  they  went  to  R.  Joshuah  b.  Levi  and  asked  him 
whether  it  was  lawful,  and  his  answer  was,  that  if  he  was  needed 
by  many  people,  he  could  do  so.  And  our  Masters  use  as  a  sup- 
port to  this  opinion  words  of  Ahi  Shakia,  who  said  :  I  have  carried 
R.  Huna  in  a  chair  on  the  festival  from  Hini  to  Shilli,  and  back. 
And  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  told  :  I  have  carried  Mar  Samuel 


*  See  Tract  Pesachim,  p.  171. 

f  This  is  explained  in  our  periodical  "  Ilakol,"  also  in  our  "  Lebaker  Mishpat, 
and  we  will  touch  upon  it  in  our  present  translation. 
4 


50  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

from  the  shadow  into  sunshine,  and  back.  The  reason  is  stated, 
because  if  many  people  needed  him  it  was  allowed. 

Says  R.  Na'hman  to  Hama  bar  Adda,  the  messenger  of  Zion : 
When  you  go  to  Palestine,  turn  down  from  your  road  and  ascend 
the  "  Ladder  of  Tzur  "  and  visit  R.  Jacob  bar  Iddi  and  ask  him : 
How  is  their  custom  with  a  litter  ?  When  he  arrived  there,  R.  Jacob 
bar  Iddi  was  dead,  and  he  found  R.  Zrika,  and  asked  him  :  How 
is  your  custom  in  regard  to  litters?  And  he  answered  :  So  said 
R.  Ammi :  One  may  be  carried  in  them,  provided  he  shall  not 
put  his  hands  on  the  shoulders  of  the  bearers.  What  is  meant 
by  this?  Said  R.  Joseph  the  son  of  Rabha  :  He  shall  not  be  car- 
ried in  a  palanquin  (a  kind  of  litter  which  required  that  he  who  is 
carried  should  hold  by  the  shoulders  of  the  bearers).  Is  that  so  ? 
Did  not  R.  Na'hman  allow  his  wife  Yalta  to  be  carried  in  a  palan- 
quin ?     The  case  with  Yalta  was  different ;  she  was  timid. 

Amemar  and  Mar  Zutra  were  carried  on  the  Sabbath  before 
the  festivals  on  a  palanquin,  because  there  was  a  great  crowd  and 
it  was  feared  they  would  be  injured.  According  to  others :  Be- 
cause it  was  so  crowded  by  the  people  who  came  to  hear,  that 
they  could  not  pass  through. 

MISHNA:  If  a  first-born  animal  fall  into  a  pit  on  the  festival 
(and  it  is  not  known  whether  it  was  injured),  R.  Jehudah  says : 
An  expert  may  descend  and  see  whether  it  had  already  an  in- 
curable and  permanent  blemish,  in  which  case  it  may  be  drawn 
up  and  killed,  but  not  otherwise.  R.  Simeon,  however,  said  :  If 
a  blemish  in  a  first-born  animal  was  not  recognized  on  the  eve  of 
the  festival,  this  is  not  considered  prepared,  and  must  not  be 
killed  on  the  holiday. 

GEMARA:  On  what  point  do  they  differ?  Shall  we  assume 
that  the  point  is,  if  it  is  allowed  to  examine  blemishes  on  the 
festival,  that  according  to  R.  Jehudah  it  is  allowed,  and  accord- 
ing to  R.  Simeon  it  is  not,  then  let  him  say  so  plainly.  Why  do 
they  differ  here  when  it  fell  in  a  pit  ?  This  case  was  necessary, 
lest  one  say  that,  because  here  is  pity  for  the  living  thing  which 
falls  in  the  pit,  it  shall  be  allowed  to  be  taken  out  for  the 
purpose  of  slaughtering  it,  if  it  has  a  blemish,  as  R.  Joshua  said 
further  on  (Chap.  V.,  p.  75).  Therefore  it  comes  to  teach  us 
that  even  in  this  case  there  is  yet  a  difference  of  opinion. 

If  it  is  so,  then  the  Mishna  should  say,  he  shall  drm£-  it  up 
and  slaughter  it  ?  And  the  difference  on  this  point  is  only 
whether  it  should  be  slaughtered  or  not  ?  The  case  is,  when  he 
has  already  brought  it  up,  lest  one  say  that  when  it  is  brought  up 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  51 

it  may  be  slaughtered.  Slaughtered  !  is  it  not  a  first-born  with- 
out a  blemish  ?  That  means,  if  it  got  a  blemish.  But  if  it  has 
the  blemish  now,  is  it  not  yet  Muktzah  ?  The  case  is  when  it 
has  a  blemish  which  has  to  be  examined  on  the  eve  of  the 
festival,  and  now  through  its  fall  it  has  got  a  permanent  blemish, 
and  it  can  be  slaughtered  without  any  examination,  lest  one  say 
that  because  a  blemish  was  from  yesterday,  the  owner  had  it  in 
his  mind,  and  might  be  slaughtered  to-day,  the  Mishna  comes  to 
teach  us  that  it  is  not  so. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Of  a  first-born  animal  which  was  with- 
out blemish  (if  it  fall  into  a  pit  on  a  festival),  R.  Jehudah  the 
Nassi  said  :  An  expert  shall  descend  and  see  whether  it  had 
a  blemish,  and  then  it  may  be  drawn  up  and  slaughtered ;  and  if 
not,  it  shall  not  be  slaughtered.  Said  R.  Simeon  b.  Menasia  to 
him  :  Did  not  the  sages  say  that  blemishes  must  not  be  examined 
on  a  festival?  How  so?  If  it  got  a  blemish  on  the  preceding 
day  it  must  not  be  examined  on  the  festival ;  but  if  it  got  the 
blemish  on  the  festival,  R.  Simeon  said  that  it  could  not  be  killed, 
because  it  was  not  prepared  from  the  day  before.  They  all  agree, 
however,  that  if  it  was  born  on  a  festival  with  a  blemish,  it  is  con- 
sidered as  prepared.  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  lectured  :  If  the  animal 
was  born  with  a  blemish,  the  examination  may  be  commenced 
on  the  festival.  Said  R.  Na'hman  to  him :  Abba,*  we  have 
learned  if  he  has  transgressed  and  had  already  examined,  the 
examination  can  be  useful,  and  thou  sayest  that  they  may  com- 
mence the  examination  ?  Said  Abayi :  It  seems  to  me  that 
Rabba  bar  Huna  is  right,  because  the  Boraitha  teaches  three 
cases.  If  it  got  a  blemish  on  the  eve  it  must  not  be  examined 
on  the  festival.  From  this  we  may  infer  that  it  must  not  be 
examined,  but  that  if  it  has  already  been  examined,  it  may  be 
used.  (The  second  case  is)  if  the  blemish  was  got  on  the  festi- 
val, R.  Simeon  said  that  it  is  not  prepared.  From  this  we  see 
that,  even  if  it  has  been  examined  and  a  real  blemish  found,  it 
must  also  not  be  used.  (And  the  third  case  is)  all  agree  that  if 
it  was  born  with  a  blemish  on  a  festival,  it  is  considered  prepared. 
Consequently,  the  examination  may  be  commenced. 

(Is  that  so?)  We  know  that  when  R.  Oshija  came  from 
Palestine  he  brought  a  Boraitha.  Either  when  he  got  a  blemish 
on  the  eve  of  the  festival,  or  on  the  festival,  according  to  the 

*  Rabba's  name  was  Abba,  and    Rabba   means   Rab   Abba.      R.    Na'hman   as  a 
colleague  addresses  him  by  name. 


52  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

sages  it  is  not  to  be  considered  prepared  (and  the  Boraitha  must  be 
in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon,  who  says  that  it  must  not  be  ex- 
amined on  the  festival ;  and  nevertheless  the  Boraitha  teaches  that 
even  if  the  blemish  was  from  the  eve  of  the  festival,  it  is  also  not 
to  be  considered  as  prepared,  we  can  say,  then,  that  if  it  was  born 
with  a  blemish,  it  is  permissible  only  when  it  was  examined,  but 
it  is  not  allowed  to  commence  the  examination,  as  R.  Na'hman 
said  above  ?)  Yea,  it  can  be  said  so,  but  the  following  Boraitha 
is  yet  a  contradiction  to  him  (why,  then,  should  you  prefer  the 
Boraitha  which  R.  Oshiya  brought  to  the  former  ?)  Because  the 
former  Boraitha  came  from  the  sources  of  Adda  bar  Ukhmi,*  who 
was  known  to  be  erratic  in  the  Boraithas  which  he  taught.  Said 
R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak :  It  seems  from  our  Mishna  also  that  it 
is  in  accordance  with  the  Boraitha  of  R.  Oshiya,  because  it  states : 
R.  Simeon  said :  If  the  blemish  was  not  recognized  on  the  eve, 
etc.,  it  is  not  considered  prepared.  Now  let  us  see  what  is  meant 
by  "  recognized  "  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  it  was  not  visible  at 
all  ?  This  would  be  self-evident.  We  must  then  say  that  it  was 
not  examined  whether  it  was  a  permanent  blemish  or  a  temporary 
one ;  nevertheless  it  states  that  it  is  not  considered  prepared,  even 
when  one  slaughtered  it.  (Consequently  the  latter  part  of  the 
Mishna,  which  states  that  "  all  agree,"  etc.,  "  it  is  prepared,"  must 
be  explained  as  R.  Na'hman  corrected.) 

Hillel  asked  of  Rabha :  Does  the  law  of  Muktzah  exist  for 
a  half  of  Sabbath  (/>.,  whether  a  thing  is  fit  for  one  half  of  Sab- 
bath, but  not  for  the  other  half)?  How  can  such  a  case  be?  If 
it  was  fit  in  twilight,  then  it  was  fit  for  the  whole  Sabbath ;  and 
if  it  was  not  fit  at  twilight,  then  it  was  not  fit  for  the  whole  Sab- 

*  This  name  is  mentioned  only  once  in  the  whole  Babylonian  Talmud.  In  the 
Palestinian  Talmud,  however  (Chap.  I.,  Halakha  3)  is  mentioned  R.  Adda  bar 
Uikhuma.  The  different  pronunciation  of  the  two  Talmuds  is  usual,  and  so  this 
Amora  is  the  only  one  who  was  erratic.  We  are  surprised  why  Zacuto  and  Heilprin, 
in  "  Seder-Hadoroth,"  ascribed  this  to  Adda  bar  Abhimi,  who  is  also  mentioned 
only  once  in  the  whole  Talmud.  (In  our  edition,  Vol.  III.,  p.  24,  and  in  the  old 
edition  the  same  saying  is  repeated,  9  b  and  12  a),  and  there  is  not  to  be  found  even  a 
hint  that  he  was  erratic.  Also  in  the  Palestinian  Talmud  the  same  is  mentioned 
twice  (Berakhoth,  Chap.  I.,  Halakha  3),  with  whom  two  great  men  of  the  Amoraim, 
R.  Tanhum  and  R.  Hezekiah,  communicated.  There  it  is  also  said  that  he  was  a 
disciple  of  R.  Zera  (Zeera^ — according  to  the  pronunciation  of  the  Palestinian 
Talmud).  Why,  then,  should  it  be  ascribed  to  such  a  man  that  he  was  erratic  ? 
Moreover,  Heilprin  does  not  mention  Adda  bar  Ukhmi  among  the  Amoraim  at  all, 
although  he  mentions  his  name  in  the  paragraph  of  Adda  bar  Abhimi,  and  gives  also 
all  our  citation  mentioned  above.  We  also  do  not  know  the  sources  from  which 
Heilprin  states  that  according  to  others  it  is  Abba  bar  Abhimi. 


TRACT   BETZAH    (YOM   TOB).  53 

bath  ?  He  meant  to  say  it  was  fit  at  twilight,  but  afterwards  it 
got  wet  from  rain,  and  dried  again,  as  it  was  in  the  beginning,  and 
not  fit  during  one  part  of  Sabbath,  and  then  fit  agani.  How  is  it  ? 
The  answer  was  :  There  is  no  law  of  Muktzah  for  a  half  of  Sabbath. 
Shall  we  assume  that  the  above  Boraitha,  which  declares  that  if 
it  was  born  with  a  blemish  it  shall  be  considered  as  prepared,  is  a 
support  to  Rabha's  decree  ?  Because  the  first-born,  when  it  was 
yet  in  the  womb  of  its  mother,  was  fit  along  with  its  mother 
(because  it  was  not  reckoned  a  firstling  before  its  birth) ;  and  as 
soon  as  it  is  born,  it  is  not  fit ;  and  after  its  being  examined  by 
an  expert  and  found  blemished  it  becomes  again  fit  (from  this 
we  see  that  the  law  of  Muktzah  does  not  exist  for  a  half  of  Sab- 
bath, as  it  was  fit  before  its  birth,  became  unfit  at  birth,  and  be- 
came fit  again  after  examination). 

Nay,  said  Abayi  in  the  name  of  R.  Saphra  :  It  may  be  that  the 
case  was,  the  expert  was  by  when  it  was  born,  and  saw  it  was  fit 
from  its  birth. 

R.  Jehudah  the  second  possessed  a  firsthng,  and  sent  it  to  R. 
Ammi  on  a  festival  for  examination.  At  first  he  thought  he 
would  not  examine  it.  Said  R.  Zrika,  or  according  to  others 
R.  Jeremiah,  to  him  :  If  R.  Simeon  and  R.  Jehudah  differ,  the 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah. 

At  another  time  he  sent  it  to  R.  Itz'hak  of  Naph'ha,  and  the 
same  happened  again.  Said  R.  Abba  to  R.  Zrika :  Why  did  not 
you  let  people  do  a  thing  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon  ?  And 
he  answered  him  :  Have  you  heard  any  decision  that  the  Hala- 
kha is  according  to  R.  Simeon  ?  And  he  said  :  Yea,  so  I  have 
heard  from  R.  Zera.  Said  some  one  of  the  disciples  present :  If  I 
will  be  worthy  to  go  to  Palestine,  I  would  like  to  learn  the  Hala- 
kha from  the  mouth  of  R.  Zera.  Later  when  he  came  to  Palestine, 
he  asked  R.  Zera :  Did  the  Master  say  that  the  Halakha  prevails 
according  to  R.  Simeon?  And  .he  answered:  I  did  not  say  it  is 
so,  but  I  said :  It  seems  so  to  me,  because  the  Mishna  relates, 
R.  Simeon  said :  If  the  blemish  was  not  recognized  while  it  was 
yet  day,  it  is  not  prepared,  and  the  Boraitha  teaches  the  same  in 
the  name  of  the  sages  (in  plural).  And  I  thought  the  Boraitha 
did  so  because  the  Halakha  prevails  accordingly.  How  is  it  in 
reality  ?  Said  R.  Joseph :  Come  and  hear.  I  will  base  my  de- 
cision on  the  words  of  great  men,  that  R.  Simeon  ben  Pazzi  in 
the  name  of  R.  Joshuah  b.  Levi,  quoting  R.  Jose  b.  Saul  in  the 
name  of  Rabbi,  upon  the  authority  of  the  Holy  Assembly  of 
Jerusalem,  said  that  R.  Simeon  (b.  Menasseh)  and  his  colleagues 


54  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

decide  the  above  Halakha  according  to  R.  Meir.  How  can  they 
have  decided  it  according  to  R.  Meir?  They  Hved  (the  Holy 
Assembly  of  Jerusalem)  in  an  earlier  age  than  he.  Say,  they 
decided  it  in  accordance  with  the  system  of  R.  Meir  (this  will  be 
explained  in  Tract  B'choroth). 

Ammi  of  Vardinaa  was  the  examiner  of  the  firstlings  of  the 
Nasi ;  and  he  did  not  examine  on  festivals.  When  this  was  told 
to  R.  Ammi,  he  said,  he  does  right.  Is  it  so?  Did  not  R. 
Ammi  himself  examine  the  blemishes  of  the  firstlings  ?  Nay,  he 
used  to  see  them  the  preceding  day,  but  he  kept  his  decision 
until  the  morrow,  when  he  asked  the  owner  how  the  animal  had 
come  by  the  blemish.  As  it  happened  when  a  man  brought  a 
firstling  before  Rabha  on  the  eve  of  a  festival,  after  noon,  and  at 
that  time  Rabha  was  washing  his  head.  He  raised  his  eyes,  and 
looked  on  the  blemish,  and  told  the  man :  Go  away  to-day,  and 
come  to-morrow.  The  next  day  he  asked  him  what  was  the 
cause  of  the  blemish,  and  he  answered :  I  have  given  it  barley  on 
one  side  of  thorns,  and  it  was  on  the  other  side ;  when  it  wanted 
to  eat,  it  put  forth  its  head  between  the  thorns  and  thus  tore  its 
lip.  And  Rabha  asked  him :  Perhaps  you  did  it  intentionally  ? 
And  he  said  :  No. 

MISHNA:  An  animal  which  dies  on  the  festival  may  not  be 
removed  thereon.  It  happened  once,  when  Rabbi  Tarphon  was 
questioned  on  the  subject,  and  also  concerning  a  separate  piece 
of  dough,  which  had  become  polluted,  he  went  to  the  college  and 
inquired.  They  told  him :  They  may  not  be  removed  from  the 
spot. 

GEMARA :  Shall  we  say  that  this  anonymous  Mishna  is  not 
in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon  (see  Sabbath,  p.  375)  ?  Nay,  the 
Mishna  can  be  explained  in  accordance  with  him,  but  he  owns 
that  animals  that  died  on  Sabbath  are  prohibited.  This  would 
be  right  according  to  Mar  bar  Amemar,  who  said  in  the  name  of 
Rabh  that  R.  Simeon  owns  it ;  but  according  to  Mar  b.  R.  Joseph, 
v/ho  declares  in  the  name  of  Rabha  that  R.  Simeon  differs,  even 
when  the  animals  died  on  Sabbath,  and  said  that  they  may  be 
used  ?  (What  can  be  said  to  that  ?)  Zera  explained  this  Mishna, 
that  it  refers  to  an  animal  that  was  consecrated  for  sacrifice. 
And  it  seems  Zera  is  right  in  his  explanation,  because  the  Mishna 
speaks  further  on  about  Hala  that  became  unclean ;  and  as  the 
Hala  was  a  consecrated  thing,  so  must  be  also  the  animal  in 
question. 

MISHNA;  An  association  for  the  purpose  of  jointly  pur- 


TRACT   BETZAH    (YOM   TOB).  55 

chasing  an  animal  may  not  be  formed  on  the  festival ;  but  if  this 
was  arranged  before  the  festival,  the  animal  so  purchased  may  be 
slaughtered  and  shared  on  the  festival. 

GEMARA  :  What  is  meant  by  "  may  not  be  formed  "  ?  Said 
R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  The  price  of  the  animal  must 
not  be  fixed  on  the  festival ;  but  how  shall  it  be  done  ?  Said 
Rabh  :  Two  animals  shall  be  brought,  and  placed  side  by  side, 
and  it  shall  be  said  :  The  value  of  this  animal  shall  be  as  the 
value  of  that.  We  have  learned  also  in  a  Boraitha  :  One  shall 
not  say  to  his  neighbor :  I  will  be  a  partner  with  you  in  this 
animal  for  one  Sela  or  more  ;  but  he  may  say :  I  would  be  a  part- 
ner with  you  for  one  half,  third,  or  quarter  of  it. 

MISHNA  :  R.  Jehudah  said :  (A  butcher  who  sells  meat  on 
a  festival)  may  weigh  it  against  a  vessel  or  hatchet ;  but  according 
to  the  sages  he  may  not  even  look  on  the  scales  at  all. 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by  "at  all"?  Said  R.  Jehudah 
in  the  name  of  Samuel :  Even  to  preserve  the  meat  from  mice, 
he  must  not  put  it  on  the  scales.  Said  R.  Iddi  bar  Abbin  :  That 
is,  when  the  scales  hang  on  the  lever.  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name 
of  Samuel  says  again  :  A  butcher  who  is  a  specialist  must  not 
weigh  the  meat  on  his  hand.  He  says  again  :  The  same  must  not 
weigh  the  meat  in  water.  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  said  :  It  is  not  per- 
mitted to  make  a  hole  in  the  meat,  to  use  it  as  a  handle.  Said 
Rabina  :  But  if  he  made  it  with  his  hand,  not  with  a  tool,  it  is 
allowed.  R.  Huna  said :  One  may  make  a  sign  upon  the  meat, 
as  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  would  cut  the  meat  in  the  shape  of  a  tri- 
angle for  a  sign.  R.  Hyya  and  R.  Simeon  the  Great  used  to 
weigh  one  piece  against  the  other,  and  they  did  it  according  to 
R.  Joshua,  as  we  learn  in  the  following  Boraitha:  R.  Joshua 
said  :  One  may  weigh  one  piece  against  the  other.  And  R. 
Joseph  said  :  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Joshua,  be- 
cause there  is  a  Mishna  in  Tract  B'choroth  in  accordance  with  his 
decision. 

MISHNA:  Knives  may  not  be  ground  or  set  on  the  festival; 
but  it  is  permitted  to  sharpen  one  knife  with  the  other. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Huna:  It  is  only  on  a  whetstone,  but 
on  wood  one  may.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel : 
Even  on  a  whetstone  it  is  only  prohibited  to  sharpen,  but  to 
remove  the  fat  from  it  one  may.  We  may  infer  from  this,  that 
on  wood  it  is  allowed  even  to  sharpen. 

Who  is  the  Tana  who  holds  that  on  a  whetstone  it  is  not  per- 
mitted?    Said   R.  Hisda:  It   is  at  any  rate  not  according  to  R. 


56  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Jehudah,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Jehudah  allows 
to  make  on  a  festival  even  the  arrangements  for  the  preparation 
of  food  (Sabbath,  p.  309). 

Said  Rabha  to  R.  Hisda :  Shall  we  lecture  in  thy  name  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah?  And  R.  Hisda 
answered :  It  may  be  the  will  of  the  Lord  that  all  good  things 
like  this  shall  ye  lecture  in  my  name. 

R.  Nehemiah  b.  R.  Joseph  said  :  Once  I  was  standing  before 
Rabha,  and  saw  that  he  took  the  knife  and  made  passes  with  it 
over  a  basket.  And  I  said  to  him :  Does  Master  intend  to 
sharpen  it,  or  to  remove  the  fat  ?  And  he  said  :  To  remove  the 
fat.  But  I  saw  that  he  intended  to  sharpen  it.  From  this  it  is 
understood  that  the  Halakha  prevails  thus,  but  is  not  to  be  pro- 
claimed to  the  people.  Abayi  told  that  the  same  thing  happened 
to  him  and  his  Master,  Rabba. 

The  schoolmen  propound  a  question :  May  one  give  the 
slaughtering-knife  to  the  wise  for  examination  on  the  festival  ? 
R.  Man  the  son  of  R.  Bizna  allowed  this,  but  the  rabbis  pro- 
hibited. R.  Joseph,  however,  said  :  A  scholar  (Talmud  Hakham) 
may  examine  the  knife  for  his  own  use,  and  then  lend  it  to  others. 
R.  Joseph  said  again  :  A  knife  that  becomes  blunt  may  be 
sharpened  by  pressure,  provided  that  the  knife  becomes  only 
blunt,  but  not  injured. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said  :  A  spit  that  became 
crooked  must  not  be  repaired  on  a  festival.  Is  not  this  self-evi- 
dent? He  meant  to  say,  that  even  with  the  hand,  without  the 
aid  of  tools,  it  is  not  allowed.  The  same  says  again  :  After  the 
meat  has  been  roasted  on  the  spit,  it  may  not  be  handled  more 
(because  the  blood  defiling  it  makes  it  unfit  for  use  until  cleaned). 
Said  R.  Adda  bar  Ah'bah  in  the  name  of  R.  Malkiya :  He  may, 
nevertheless,  take  it  to  put  into  a  corner,  the  same  as  it  is  per- 
mitted to  do  with  a  thorn  that  is  seen  in  public  ground.  (Sabbath, 

p.  75.) 

MISHNA:  One  must  not  say  to  a  butcher:  Give  me  meat 
for  a  Denar  ;  but  the  butcher  may  slaughter  the  animal,  and  divide 
it  among  the  customers. 

One  may  say  to  another  (on  the  festival),  fill  me  this  ves- 
sel, but  it  must  not  be  a  vessel  appropriated  to  measure  with. 
R.  Jehudah  says :  If  a  measure  is  used  it  must  not  be  quite 
filled.  Abba  Saul  b.  Batnit  used  to  fill  his  measures  on  the  day 
before  the  festival,  and  delivered  them  to  the  customers  on  the 
festival.     The  same  Saul  said  :  One  may  do  so  even  on  the  inter- 


TRACT   BETZAH    (YOM   TOB).  57 

mediate  days,  on  account  of  the  froth  in  the  measure.  The 
sages,  however,  say :  One  may  do  so  also  on  week-days  in  order 
to  let  out  the  entire  contents  of  his  measure  into  the  vessels  of 
his  customers. 

GEMARA  :  What  is  meant  by  '^  vessel  appropriated  to  meas- 
ure with  "  ?  Said  Rabha :  That  is,  he  shall  not  mention  the  kind 
of  measure,  but  if  the  vessel  is  a  measure  he  may  do  so.  And 
R.  Jehudah  comes  to  teach  that  even  this  must  not  be  done.  From 
this  we  see  that,  about  the  enjoyment  of  the  festival,  R.  Jehudah 
is  more  rigorous,  and  the  sages  are  more  lenient  ;  but  did  we  not 
learn  in  the  Mishna  about  the  scales  (p.  55),  that  R.  Jehudah  is 
more  lenient  and  the  sages  are  more  rigorous  ?  And  this  would 
be  a  contradiction  to  that  teaching  ?  It  presents  no  difficulty. 
The  above  Mishna  referred  to  a  thing  which  was  not  a  weight, 
but  this  speaks  of  a  vessel  that  is  a  measure.  This  reconciles 
the  contradiction  between  one  teaching  of  R.  Jehudah  and  the 
other.  And  as  regards  what  sages  teach  about  the  scales? 
They  merely  say  that  a  man  shall  not  do  as  is  usually  done  on 
week-days,  but  here  he  does  not  do  as  on  week-days,  because  it  is 
not  usual  that  a  man  should  give  wine  to  his  guest  to  drink  from 
a  measure. 

''Abba  Saul  b.Batnity'  etc.  A  Boraitha  taught :  One  may  do 
it  in  the  intermediate  days  to  prevent  interruption  in  the  house  of 
learning  (if  he  will  busy  himself  with  the  measuring,  he  will  fail  to 
go  to  the  college). 

The  rabbis  taught :  Abba  Saul  collected  three  hundred  pitch- 
ers of  wine  barely  from  the  froth  of  the  measures ;  *  and  his  col- 
leagues collected  the  same  amount  from  what  remained  in  the 
measures  after  emptying  them  for  the  customers.  Both  brought 
this  wine  to  the  treasurers  of  charity  at  Jerusalem.  The  treasur- 
ers said  to  them  :  It  is  not  necessary  for  you  to  do  so  (because  it 
is  your  own).  But  they  replied  :  We  do  not  wish  to  use  (because 
we  do  not  consider  it  ours).  And  the  treasurers  rejoined  :  If 
you  are  so  rigorous  towards  yourselves,  go  and  dispose  of  it  for 
the  benefit  of  the  people. 


*  Rashi  explains  thus  :  It  was  known  to  him  how  many  lugs  there  had  been  in  his 
barrel,  and  also  how  many  he  sold  out  to  his  customers,  and  the  remainder  which  was 
in  the  barrel  he  considered  was  left  because  of  the  froth  of  the  measures,  and  during 
the  year  it  amounted  to  three  hundred  pitchers.  And  his  colleagues  who  sold  oil, 
which  makes  no  froth,  collected  the  same  number  from  the  remainder  of  the  measures, 
as  there  is  always  some  oil  left  in  them,  and  during  many  years  they  collected  from 
this  the  same  amount. 


5§  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

R.  Hisda  accompanied  Rabbana  Uqba,  and  the  latter  lectured  : 
One  must  not  measure  barley  to  give  it  to  cattle ;  but  one  may 
nevertheless  take  a  Kab  full,  or  two  Kabs,  and  give  it  to  the  cat- 
tle without  fear.  But  the  baker  (cook)  may  measure  the  quantity 
of  spices  for  putting  into  the  pots,  lest  he  spoil  the  flavors. 

R.  Jeremiah  bar  Abba  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said  :  A  woman 
may  measure  the  flour  on  a  festival  for  her  dough,  for  the  pur- 
pose of  separating  a  due  share  of  the  first  dough.  Samuel,  how- 
ever, prohibited  to  do  so.  But  did  not  the  disciples  of  Samuel 
teach  in  his  name  that  it  is  allowed  ?  Said  Abayi :  Now,  when 
the  disciples  declared  in  his  name  that  it  is  permitted,  and  from 
himself  it  was  heard  that  it  is  not,  we  may  assume  that  he  re- 
tracted his  decision  in  order  to  teach  us  how  to  act. 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  must  not  resieve  flour  on  the  festi- 
val ;  but  R.  Papias  and  R.  Jehudah  b.  Bthera  both  permit  it.  All 
agree,  however,  that  if  some  dust  or  a  chip  fell  into  the  flour, 
that  may  be  done.  One  disciple  taught  in  the  presence  of 
Rabina  that  if  a  chip  has  fallen  into  it,  he  shall  remove  it 
with  the  hand.  And  Rabina  rejoined  that  this  is  by  an  a 
fortiori  argument,  not  allowed,  because  it  looks  as  though  he 
sifts  it. 

Rabha  bar  R.  Huna  the  Minor  lectured  at  the  gate  of  Nehar- 
dai :  One  may  resieve  flour  on  the  festival.  Said  R.  Na'hman  to 
the  people  of  Nehardai :  Go  and  tell  Abba,  Take  thy  favor  and 
put  it  on  the  thorns  {i.e.^  he  did  not  any  good  with  his  lecture). 
Go  and  see  how  many  sieves  are  used  in  Nehardai  on  the  festi- 
val (even  before  his  lecture). 

The  wife  of  R.  Joseph  has  sifted  flour  on  the  back  of  a  sieve, 
and  he  said  to  her :  See,  I  want  to  have  good  bread  (it  means, 
you  should  not  make  any  change).  The  wife  of  R.  Ashi  sifted 
the  flour  on  the  back  of  the  table  (to  show  a  change  from  the 
week-days).  Said  R.  Ashi :  My  wife  is  the  daughter  of  Rami  bar 
Hama,  who  was  very  particular  in  his  deeds,  and  if  she  had  not 
seen  it  done  in  the  house  of  her  father,  she  would  not  do  it, 

MISHNA:  One  may  go  to  a  shopkeeper  with  whom  one  is 
used  to  deal,  and  say  to  him  :  "■  Give  me  so  many  eggs  or  nuts," 
because  the  master  of  a  house  is  used  to  count  similar  articles  by 
numbers. 

GEMARA :  The  rabbis  taught :  One  may  go  to  his  shepherd 
who  is  an  acquaintance,  and  ask  him  for  one  goat  or  one  sheep ; 
to  his  butcher,  to  ask  him  for  a  shoulder  or  leg;  to  the  bird- 
seller,  and  ask  him  for  one  old  or  young  pigeon,  to  his  baker,  and 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  59 

ask  him  for  a  loaf  or  roll ;  and  to  his  grocer,  and  ask  him  for 
twenty  eggs  or  fifty  nuts  or  ten  peaches  or  five  pomegranates  or 
one  lemon — provided  one  does  not  mention  any  numbers  of 
measures.  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said :  Provided  one  does  not 
mention  the  prices. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  CARRYING  AND  HANDLING  OF  THINGS 
ON    THE    FESTIVAL. 

MISHNA:  If  one  has  to  transport  jars  of  wine  from  one 
place  to  another  (on  a  festival)  he  must  not  carry  them  in  a  bas- 
ket or  a  case,  but  on  the  shoulder,  or  in  his  hand  in  front  of  his 
person.  The  same  is  the  case  when  he  has  to  carry  straw ;  he 
must  not  put  the  bundle  on  the  shoulder  behind,  but  must  carry  it 
in  his  hand.  One  may  commence  to  take  a  heap  of  straw  (for 
fuel),  but  not  of  stacks  of  wood  in  an  unused  yard  behind  the 
house. 

GEMARA  :  A  Boraitha  taught :  If  it  is  impossible  to  change 
the  manner  usual  on  week-days,  it  may  be  done  as  ordinarily. 

Rabha  has  ordered  in  Mehuzah  as  follows :  ''  A  heavy  burden 
which  a  man  carries  on  a  week-day  with  great  trouble,  if  he  has 
to  bear  it  on  a  festival,  he  may  carry  it  with  the  help  of  a  Rtg/a 
(a  long,  crooked  pole  for  bearing  burdens),  and  though  it  is 
also  heavy  and  a  trouble,  it  is  a  change  of  the  manner,  on  week- 
days. And  what  one  man  carries  on  week-days  with  the  help  of 
a  Rt^/a,  two  men  shall  carry.  The  burden  which  two  men  carry 
on  a  pole  on  their  shoulders,  they  shall  carry  on  a  festival  with 
the  hand,  and  what  is  carried  with  the  hand,  shall  on  the  festi- 
val be  carried  with  a  cloth."  All  this  shall  be  done,  if  possible ; 
but  if  it  is  impossible,  it  shall  be  carried  as  usually,  because  the 
Master  said :  If  it  is  impossible  to  change  the  manner  it  is 
allowed. 

Rabha  bar  R.  Hanin  said  to  Abayi :  A  Mishna  teaches :  It  is 
prohibited  to  clap  with  the  hands,  strike  on  the  hips,  and  to 
dance  on  a  festival.  And  in  our  time  we  see  people  do  so,  and 
we  do  not  say  to  them  anything.  And  he  answered :  And 
according  to  your  theory,  come  and  see  the  women  who  take 
their  cans  and  go  and  stand  at  the  gates  of  the  entry,  which  is 
also  prohibited,  and  we  say  nothing  to  them  (would  you  also 
blame  us  for  this  ?).     This  is  not  so  (because  it  is  a  rule).     I.ct 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM   TOB).  6i 

Israel  do  things  unintentionally  rather  than  intentionally  {i.e„ 
they  were  sure  that  if  it  was  told  to  them,  they  would  not  listen, 
and  to  preserve  them  from  conscious  transgression,  they  keep 
silence).  And  there  is  no  difference  in  such  a  case  between 
a  biblical  and  a  rabbinical  prohibition.  Because  the  adding  from 
the  eve  of  the  Day  of  Atonement  to  the  Day  of  Atonement  (about 
half  an  hour)  is  biblical,  nevertheless  we  see  women  eating  and 
drinking  till  dark,  and  we  say  nothing. 

''  But  not  of  stacks  of  wood,''  etc.  R.  Kahana  said  :  From 
this  it  may  be  inferred  that  we  must  not  commence  to  take  of  a 
whole  store  (stock  storehouse),  because  it  is  ''  designated."  Then 
it  would  be  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  who  holds  the  theory  of 
Muktzah.  How  then  would  be  explained  the  beginning  of  the 
Mishna,  that  one  may  begin  to  take  of  a  heap  of  straw,  that 
would  be  according  to  R.  Simeon,  who  does  not  hold  the  theory 
of  Muktzah?  The  Mishna  refers  to  spoiled  straw  (which  is  no 
longer  fit  for  food  of  animals).  But  it  may  yet  be  used  for  bricks  ? 
It  refers  to  a  case  when  there  were  thistles  (or  thorns)  in  the  straw. 

MISHNA :  Wood  may  not  be  taken  from  a  booth,  but  the 
pieces  lying  by  may  be  used. 

GEMARA :  R.  Hyya  bar  Joseph  taught  before  R.  Johanan 
the  following  Boraitha :  Wood  must  not  be  taken  from  a  booth, 
but  only  the  pieces  lying  near  it.  R.  Simeon,  however,  permits 
it.  But  all  agree  that  from  a  booth  made  for  the  Festival  of 
Tabernacles  it  must  not  be  taken  then.  If  the  booth  was  made 
conditionally,  all  must  be  done  according  to  the  condition. 

It  has  been  said :  R.  Simeon  permits  it.  But  did  he  not  de- 
molish a  tent  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  :  The  case  is  when 
the  tent  is  already  demolished,  or  so  weak  as  to  fall  down  soon, 
so  that  even  on  the  preceding  day  he  had  the  intention  to  take 
wood  of  it. 

The  Boraitha  states  :  If  the  booth  was  made  conditionally,  etc. 
Can  then  a  condition  affect  it  ?  Did  we  not  learn  in  Succah  (p.  lo), 
that  R.  Shesheth  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Aqiba :  that  the  wood 
of  the  Succah  is  prohibited  in  all  the  seven  days  at  all  events? 
This  part  of  the  Boraitha  means  an  ordinary  booth,  not  a  taber- 
nacle. 

MISHNA:  One  may  bring  wood  from  the  field  when  it  is 
a  stack,  and  from  a  wood-shed,  even  of  the  dispersed  pieces  of 
wood.  What  is  called  a  wood-shed  ?  If  it  is  near  the  city.  So 
is  the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah.  R.  Jose,  however,  said  :  If  there  is 
a  door  which  can  be  locked,  even  if  it  is  within  the  legal  limit. 


62  the:   BABVLONlAN   TALMUD. 

GEMARA  :  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  Wood 
may  be  brought  only  from  the  stacks  that  are  in  the  wood-shed, 
but  not  dispersed  pieces.  Did  not  our  Mishna  teach  that  from  a 
wood-shed  may  be  taken  even  dispersed  pieces  ?  The  Mishna  is 
only  according  to  an  individual  Tana,  but  the  other  sages  differ 
from  it.  Rabha  said :  Leaves  of  a  vineyard  or  of  branches, 
although  they  are  gathered  and  lie  together,  because  by  a  wind 
they  may  be  dispersed,  are  to  be  considered  as  dispersed  already, 
and  may  not  be  used.  But  if  one  had  put  a  heavy  thing  on 
them  the  preceding  day,  they  may  be  used. 

**  What  is  called  a  wood-shed,''  etc.  The  schoolmen  propound 
a  question  :  Did  the  Mishna  mean  both  ?  Did  it  mean  that  it  is 
near  the  city  and  has  a  door,  and  R.  Jose  comes  to  teach  if  it  has 
a  door  it  is  enough,  if  it  is  not  near  the  city,  but  within  the  legal 
limit,  or  when  it  has  no  door,  even  near  to  a  city,  also  not  ? 
Come  and  hear :  Because  R.  Jose  teaches  that  if  it  can  be  entered 
through  a  door,  and  the  door  can  be  locked,  it  is  allowed  even 
within  the  legal  limit,  we  may  infer  that  R.  Jose  decides  in  both 
cases  leniently.  Said  R.  Sala  in  the  name  of  R.  Jeremiah  :  The 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jose,  leniently. 

MISHNA:  It  is  not  permitted  to  cut  wood  from  new  beams, 
even  from  an  old  beam  that  was  broken  on  the  festival ;  neither 
may  wood  be  cleft  with  an  axe,  or  saw,  or  bite-hook,  but  with  a 
chopping-knife  only. 

GEMARA :  Has  not  the  first  part  of  the  Mishna  said  that  we 
must  not  cut  wood  at  all?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of 
Samuel :  The  Mishna  is  not  completed,  and  must  be  read  thus : 
It  is  not  allowed  to  cut  from  a  pile  of  logs,  neither  from  a  beam 
that  was  broken  on  the  festival ;  but  from  a  beam  that  was  broken 
the  preceding  day.  And  when  they  cut  it,  they  shall  not  do  it 
with  an  axe,  etc.  The  same  we  have  learned  in  the  following 
Boraitha :  One  may  not  cut  wood  from  a  pile  of  beams,  nor  from 
a  beam  broken  on  the  festival,  because  they  are  not  considered 
prepared  while  it  is  yet  day. 

''  But  with  a  chopping-knife  only!'  Said  R.  Hinna  bar  Salmia 
in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  It  is  only  with  the  side  of  the  blade  used 
for  chopping  wood,  but  with  the  broad  side  wherewith  one  can 
cleave  beams,  it  is  not  allowed.* 

*  It  is  difficult  to  understand  the  argument,  as  it  is  not  known  to  us  how  the 
chopping-knife  was  made.  Even  Tospheth  remarks  because  we  do  not  know  what 
kind  of  a  chopping-knife  it  was,  therefore  it  is  not  allowed  to  cut  wood  with  any 
knife,  only  with  the  hand. 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  63 

MISHNA:  A  house  filled  with  fruits,  if  a  hole  was  made,  it 
is  allowed  to  take  fruit  through  this  hole.  R.  Meir,  however,  said 
one  may  make  a  hole  in  the  house,  to  commence  with,  for  the 
purpose  of  taking  the  fruit. 

GEMARA  :  Why  so?  Is  he  not  demolishing  a  tent  ?  Said 
R.  Nehuma  bar  Adda  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  The  Mishna  refers 
to  a  house  of  bricks  without  mortar.  R.  Zera  said  :  R.  Meir 
allowed  this  only  on  a  festival,  but  not  on  Sabbath.  The  sam»e 
we  have  learned  plainly  in  a  Boraitha.  Samuel  said  :  If  the  doors 
of  the  cellars  are  tied  with  ropes,  one  may  untie  ;  but  he  may  not 
untwist  the  ropes  themselves,  nor  cut  them  off.  When,  however, 
with  such  ropes  vessels  were  tied,  he  may  untwist  them  and  cut 
them  off,  and  there  is  no  difference  between  Sabbath  and  a  festi- 
val in  this  case. 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following  Boraitha:  If  the 
doors  of  the  cellars  are  tied  with  ropes,  on  Sabbath,  one  may 
untie,  but  he  may  not  untwist  the  ropes  themselves,  nor  cut  them 
off.  On  a  festival,  however,  all  this  is  allowed  ?  The  Boraitha  is 
according  to  R.  Meir,  who  allows  this  on  a  festival  to  commence 
with,  but  I  say  according  to  the  rabbis.  But  did  the  rabbis 
differ  with  R.  Meir  that  if  the  doors  of  the  cellars,  etc.  ?  Have 
we  not  learned  in  another  Boraitha,  that  the  sages  agree  with  R. 
Meir  concerning  this  case  ?  Samuel  holds  with  another  Boraitha 
which  stated  differently. 

MISHNA  :  It  is  not  permitted  to  make  a  cavity  in  a  lump  of 
potter's  clay  for  the  purpose  of  using  it  as  a  lamp,  because  a 
utensil  is  thereby  formed ;  neither  may  charcoal  be  made  on  a 
festival,  nor  the  wick  of  a  lamp  be  cut  in  two.  R.  Jehudah  says : 
W^ith  fire  it  may  be  done. 

GEMARA :  Who  is  the  Tana  who  holds  that  when  a  hole  is 
made  in  such  a  lump  it  is  called  a  utensil?  Said  R.  Joseph: 
That  is  R.  Meir  (who  states  so  in  Tract  Kelim). 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  must  not  make  a  hole  in  a  lump  of 
clay  to  use  it  as  a  lamp,  nor  plates  used  by  rustics  (who  are  not 
particular  about  fine  china,  but  use  them  as  soon  as  made,  before 
they  have  been  hollowed  out  and  baked  m  fire)."*  R.  Simeon  b. 
Gamaliel,  however,  allows  it. 

''  Neither  may  charcoal  be  made,''  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evident  ? 
What  use  can  one  make  on   that  day  of  charcoal  ?     Taught  R. 


*  The  commentators,  Rashi  and  Tospheth,  also  the  dictionaries,   try  to  explain 
this  term,  but  it  remains  obscure. 


64  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Hyya ;  The  Mishna  refers  to  those  who  need  the  charcoal  for  an 
olearius  on  this  day  {i.e.,  a  machine  to  heat  oil  to  be  fit  for  the 
body  and  clothes).  Is  it  allowed  then  to  take  a  bath  on  this 
day  ?  As  Rabha  had  explained  in  another  place  that  it  was 
allowed  to  go  to  sweat  before  it  was  prohibited,  so  also  can 
this  Mishna  be  explained  to  mean  sweating,  before  the  prohibi- 
tion was  made  (see  Sabbath,  pp.  71,  72). 

'^  Nor  the  wick  of  a  /^;^^/,"etc.  Why  is  it  not  allowed  to  do  it 
with  a  knife  ?  Because  he  makes  of  it  a  utensil  {i.e.,  he  makes 
two  out  of  one).  Is  not  the  same  with  fire  ?  Taught  R.  Hyya  : 
R.  Jehudah  meant  to  say  that  the  ends  shall  be  placed  in  two 
lamps,  and  shall  be  separated  by  burning  the  middle  part,  (and  he 
only  kindles  the  lamps). 

R.  Nathan  bar  Abba  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  One  may 
snuff  a  wick  on  the  festival.  Bar  Qappara  taught :  Six  things  were 
said  about  a  wick:  three  rigorously  and  three  leniently.  Rigorously: 
One  must  not  commence  to  braid  the  wick,  nor  singe,  nor  cut 
it  in  two  ;  and  leniently  :  One  may  twist  it  with  the  hand,  soak  in 
oil,  and  make  two  wicks  by  burning  the  middle  part.  R.  Nathan 
bar  Abba  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said  again  :  The  rich  men  of  the 
Babylonians  are  among  those  who  descend  to  Gehenna  ;  as  it 
once  happened  Sabathai  bar  Merenus  came  to  Babylon  and  asked 
them  to  support  him  in  some  business,  and  they  did  not  ;  and  he 
asked  that  they  should  feed  him  at  least,  and  they  also  re- 
fused. Then  he  said :  They  are  descendants  of  the  ''  mixed 
multitude,"  as  it  is  written  [Deut.  xiii.  18]:  *' And  grant  thee 
mercy,  and  have  mercy  upon  thee."  From  this  we  infer  that 
whosoever  has  mercy  for  creatures,  he  is  surely  of  the  children  of 
Abraham  our  father,  but  whosoever  has  not  mercy  for  creatures, 
it  is  certain  he  is  not.  The  same  says  again  in  the  name  of  the 
same  authority :  Whosoever  is  dependent  upon  the  table  of  his 
neighbor,  the  whole  world  is  dark  for  him.  As  it  is  written  [Job 
XV.  23]  :  ''  He  wandereth  abroad  for  bread,  (saying),  Where  is  it  ? 
he  knoweth  that  there  is  ready  at  his  hand  the  day  of  darkness." 
R.  Hisda  said  :  His  life  is  no  life  at  all. 

The  rabbis  taught :  There  are  three  men  whose  lives  are  not 
counted  as  lives  at  all :  He  who  is  dependent  on  the  table  of  his 
neighbor ;  he  whose  wife  dominates  over  him  ;  and  he  who  has 
bodily  suffering.  According  to  others,  he  who  has  no  more  than 
one  shirt. 

MISHNA:  One  may  not  break  pieces  of  earthenware,  nor 
cut  paper  for  the  purpose  of  roasting  salted  fish   on  it.     Ashes 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  65 

from  the  oven  or  hearth  may  not  be  removed,  but  they  may  be 
moved  to  one  side.  Two  barrels  must  not  be  brought  near  each 
other,  to  place  a  pot  on  them  over  the  fire,  nor  may  a  piece  of 
wood  be  used  to  support  a  pot,  nor  a  door.  , ,  pattle  may  not  be 
driven  on  the  festival  with  a  stick;  but  R.  Eliezer  b.  Simeon 
permits  it. 

GEMARA  :  Why  so?  Because  he  produces  thereby  uten- 
sils. 

"  Ashes  of  the  oven,''  etc.  R.  Hyya  b.  Joseph  taught  in  the 
presence  of  R.  Na'hman  that  if  it  is  not  possible  to  bake  in  the 
oven  unless  one  removes  the  ashes,  one  may  do  so.  It  happened 
to  the  wife  of  R.  Hyya  that  half  a  brick  from  the  wall  of  the 
oven  fell  down  into  the  oven  on  a  festival.  Said  R.  Hyya  to  her : 
See  to  its  removal,  because  I  like  to  have  good  bread.  Rabha 
said  to  his  servant :  Roast  for  me  a  duck,  and  see  that  it  shall  not 
be  singed.  Said  Rabina  to  R.  Ashi :  We  were  told  by  R. 
Aha  of  Hutzl  that  the  Master's  servants,  when  the  oven  is 
closed,  smear  it  with  clay  on  the  festival.  And  he  answered  : 
We  live  near  the  River  Euphrates,  where  clay  is  ready  at  hand. 
The  case  is,  when  he  makes  a  sign  on  the  clay  on  the  previous 
day.  Said  Rabina  :  To  knead  ashes,  it  is  permitted  (because 
they  cannot  keep  for  a  long  period). 

''  Nor  may  a  piece  of  wood,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught  :  A  pot 
must  not  be  supported  with  a  piece  of  wood  nor  a  door,  because 
wood  is  prepared  only  for  fuel.  R.  Simeon,  however,  allows  this. 
Cattle  must  not  be  driven  with  a  stick,  but  R.  Eliezer  the  son  of 
R.  Simeon  permits  it.  Shall  we  assume  that  R.  Eliezer  holds 
with  his  father,  that  no  theory  of  Muktzah  exists?  Nay,  he  is 
more  lenient  than  his  father ;  for  his  father  would  assent  that 
they  must  not  be  driven  with  a  stick,  because  it  seems  as  if  they 
are  taken  to  the  market. 

Hizra  (Abhazar  in  Arabic),  R.  Na'hman  prohibited  to  use 
for  the  purpose  of  roasting  on  it  meat ;  but  R.  Shesheth  permits 
it.  If  it  was  dry,  all  agree  it  is  permitted  ;  they  differ  only  when 
it  is  wet  yet.  Whosoever  prohibits  it,  does  it  because  it  is  not 
fit  for  fuel,  and  whosoever  permits  it,  does  it  because  in  a  great 
fire  this  also  can  be  used.  The  Halakha,  however,  prevails  thus : 
That  a  dry  one  is  allowed,  but  not  a  wet  one. 

Rabha  lectured  :  A  woman  shall  not  enter  a  wood-shed  to 
take  a  crooked  piece  of  wood  for  a  poker ;  and  if  a  poker  was 
broken  on  the  festival,  it  must  not  be  burned,  because  fire  may  be 
made  with  vessels,  but  not  broken  vessels  (Sabbath,  p.  270).    Shall 

5 


66  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

we  assume  that  Rabha  holds  with  R.  Jehudah  regarding  the 
theory  of  Muktzah  ?  Did  not  Rabha  say  to  his  servant :  Roast 
me  a  duck,  and  throw  the  entrails  to  the  cat  ?  With  the  entrails  it 
is  different ;  because,  as  they  become  putrified  he  made  up  his 
mind  the  day  before  that  they  must  be  given  to  the  cat. 

MISHNA:  Rabbi  Eliezer  says:  One  may  take  a  splinter 
from  the  wood  lying  near  him  to  clean  his  teeth  with,  and  gather 
in  the  yard  small  pieces  of  wood,  and  burn  them,  because  what- 
ever is  in  the  yard  may  be  considered  as  prepared  for  the  festival. 
But  the  sages  allow  one  to  pick  up  only  those  pieces  that  lie  near 
him,  and  only  to  burn  them.  Fire  may  not  be  produced  on  the 
festival  from  wood,  stones,  dust  or  earth,  or  from  water ;  nor  may 
one  heat  tiles  to  broil  food  on  them. 

GEMARA :  R.  Jehudah  said :  To  food  fit  for  cattle  the  law 
of  making  a  utensil  does  not  apply  (e.g.,  to  take  straw  or  other 
fodder  of  cattle,  and  break  it  for  cleaning  the  teeth,  or  so,  is  per- 
mitted ;  because,  being  fit  for  cattle,  it  may  be  handled,  etc.). 

R.  Kahana  objected  him :  We  have  learned  that  branches  of 
spice-trees  may  be  handled  to  enjoy  the  odor,  and  to  fan  with  them 
a  sick  man.  One  may  grind,  also,  to  produce  an  agreeable  odor ; 
but  one  must  not  break  them  for  the  purpose  of  enhancing  the 
odor.  If  he  did  so,  he  is  not  liable  to  a  sin-offering;  but  if  he 
broke  them  for  the  purpose  of  cleaning  the  teeth  with  them,  he 
is  liable.  And  he  answered  :  If  the  Boraitha  had  said  that  one 
may  not  break  them  for  the  purpose  of  cleaning  the  teeth,  it 
would  be  a  great  difficulty  to  me ;  much  more,  when  it  says  he 
is  liable  to  a  sin-offering  for  it.  The  Boraitha  must  be  incom- 
plete and  must  be  stated  thus :  He  may  grind  with  his  hand 
for  the  purpose  of  odor ;  he  may  break  them  for  this  purpose,  but 
the  case  is  only  when  they  are  yet  soft.  But  when  they  are 
already  hard,  he  shall  not  break  them.  If  he  did  so,  however,  he 
is  not  culpable,  although  it  is  prohibited  ;  but  if  he  broke  for  the 
purpose  of  cleaning  the  teeth,  he  is  liable  to  a  sin-offering. 

In  one  Boraitha  we  have  learned,  he  may  break  it  in  order  to 
smell  it,  and  in  another  one — that  he  must  not  break  it  for  this 
purpose?  Said  R.  Zera  in  the  name  of  R.  Hisda  :  It  presents  no 
difficulty.  The  Boraitha  which  allows  it  means  when  they  are 
soft,  and  the  other  one,  when  they  are  dry.  R.  A'ha  bar  Jacob 
opposed  :  Why  shall  dry  ones  not  be  allowed  ?  Did  not  a  Mishna 
(Sabbath,  p.  332)  state :  One  may  break  open  a  cask  to  cut  dry- 
figs  therefrom,  etc.  ?  Furthermore  :  Rabha  and  Rabbin,  the  sons 
of  R.  Adda,  both  say  :  When  we  were  at  the  house  of  R.  Jehudah, 


TRACT   BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  67 

he  used  to  break  twigs  off  a  spice-tree,  and  give  us  sticks  of  the 
same,  although  the  sticks  were  so  large  that  they  could  be  used 
for  an  axe  or  a  spade  handle.  Therefore  we  must  say  that  of  the 
two  Boraithas  (mentioned  above)  one  is  according  to  R.  Eliezer 
and  one  according  to  the  rabbis  of  the  following  Boraltha :  ''  R. 
Eliezer  said  :  One  may  take  a  splinter  from  the  wood  lying  near 
him  to  clean  his  teeth  with ;  but  the  sages  say :  He  can  take  it 
only  from  a  manger.  All  agree  that  he  shall  not  break  it  off,  and 
if  he  did  so,  to  clean  the  teeth  or  to  open  the  door  with  it,  if  unin- 
tentionally on  a  Sabbath,  he  is  liable  to  a  sin-offering,  and  if  inten- 
tionally on  a  festival,  he  is  liable  to  the  punishment  of  stripes. 
So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Eliezer.  The  sages,  however,  say  :  In  both 
cases  he  is  free,  because  this  is  only  a  Shbuth  (Sabbath-rest,  rab- 
binically)."  Now,  the  Boraitha  which  states  that  he  must  not 
break  it  off  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Eliezer,  who  says  there  that 
he  is  liable  to  a  sin-offering ;  and  the  Boraitha  which  states  that 
he  may  do  so  is  in  accordance  with  the  rabbis,  who  say  there  that 
he  is  free,  even  if  he  broke  it  ofT  for  the  purpose  of  cleaning  his 
teeth.  Here,  however,  when  it  is  for  the  purpose  of  smelling,  it  is 
allowed  to  commence  with.  But  does  not  R.  Eliezer  hold  what 
is  stated  in  the  above  Mishna,  that  one  may  break  open  a  cask, 
etc.  ?  Said  R.  Ashi :  According  to  R.  Eliezer,  the  Mishna  must 
be  explained  that  the  cask  was  cemented  with  resin,  and  it  is  im- 
possible to  use  it  afterwards  as  a  vessel. 

''And  gather  in  the  yard!'  The  rabbis  taught:  He  may 
gather  in  the  yard  and  burn,  because  all  things  that  are  in 
the  yard  are  considered  as  prepared,  provided  he  does  not 
make  of  them  heaps.  R.  Simeon,  however,  permits  even  this. 
On  what  point  do  they  differ?  One  holds  that  if  he  makes 
heaps,  it  seems  as  if  he  prepared  them  for  the  day  subsequent 
to  the  festival ;  but  the  other  holds  that  his  pot  proves  that  it  is 
for  to-day. 

'*  Fire  may  not  be  produced,'  etc.  Why  so?  Because  to  pro^ 
duce  a  new  thing  is  not  lawful. 

"  One  may  not  heat  tiles''  etc.  What  labor  is  that  ?  Said 
Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  Rabbi  Johanan  :  The  Mishna 
refers  to  new  tiles,  that  must  be  examined  as  to  whether  they 
can  stand  fire.  According  to  others,  it  is  a  labor  because  they 
must  be  heated  long,  until  they  become  hard. 

The  rabbis  taught :  New  ovens  or  hearths  are  considered  as 
ordinary  vessels  that  may  be  handled  in  the  yard  ;  but  they  must 
not  be  anointed  with  oil,  nor  cleaned  with  a  wet  cloth,  nor  cooled 


68  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

in  cold  water  to  harden  it.  But  if  all  this  should  be  done  only  for 
the  purpose  of  baking  on  that  day,  it  is  allowed. 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  head  and  the  feet  of  an  animal  may 
be  scalded,  also  singed.  The  hair  may  be  removed  by  fire,  but 
not  with  lime,  clay,  or  earth ;  nor  must  it  be  cut  off  with  scissors. 
Herbs  must  not  be  cut  out  with  the  same  scissors  with  which 
they  are  usually  detached  from  the  ground.  But  one  may  pre- 
pare x^'^^P^  (artichoke)  and  thistle  and  bake  in  a  large  oven,  and 
water  may  be  formed  in  an  "  antikhi "  (a  kind  of  kettle :  see  Sab- 
bath, p.  74).  A  new  large  oven,  however,  must  not  be  heated  on 
the  festival,  because  it  may  burst. 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  must  not  blow  bellows,  but  one  may 
blow  through  a  pipe.  A  spit  must  not  be  sharpened  and  fixed 
(for  the  purpose  of  roasting). 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  cane  must  not  be  splintered  for  the 
purpose  of  roasting  salted  fish.  A  nut,  however,  may  be  cracked 
through  a  piece  of  cloth,  without  fear  lest  that  the  latter  be  torn. 

MISHNA  :  R.  Eliezer  said  again  :  In  a  Sabbatical  year  a  man 
may  place  himself  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  at  the  place  where  figs 
or  raisins  are  kept,  and  say :  From  there  I  will  take  to-morrow. 
But,  according  to  the  sages,  he  must  point  out  the  exact  spot, 
and  say :  I  will  take  from  this  point  to  that  point. 

GEMARA  :  In  a  Mishna  (Maasroth,  Chap.  IV.,  2)  it  is  staled  : 
If  children  had  saved  dates  from  the  eve  of  Sabbath  and  forgot 
to  separate  the  tithe,  when  the  Sabbath  is  over  they  must  not 
eat  them  until  the  tithe  is  separated.  Also  in  another  Mishna 
(ibid.  III.,  i):  If  one  passed  dates  through  his  yard  to  dry  them, 
his  household  may  eat  of  them  moderately.  Now,  Rabba  asked 
R.  Na'hman  :  Does  the  Sabbath  fix  the  time  for  separating  tithe 
even  from  things  the  labors  belonging  to  which  are  not  finished 
yet?  Shall  we  assume  that  because  it  is  written  [in  Is.  Iviii.]  : 
"Thou  shalt  call  the  Sabbath  a  delight,"  it  fixes  the  time  of  tith- 
ing even  for  things  the  labors  belonging  to  which  are  not  finished 
yet,  or  it  fixes  the  time  only  for  things  the  labors  on  which  are  fin- 
ished and  not  otherwise  ?  And  he  answered  :  Sabbath  fixes  the 
time  in  any  event.  The  former  said  again  :  Why  shall  not  Sabbath 
be  equal  to  a  yard  which  does  not  fix  the  time  for  things  on 
which  the  labor  is  not  finished  yet  ?  Let  the  law  of  Sabbath  be 
the  same  ?  And  he  answered  :  We  have  an  explicit  teaching 
that  the  Sabbath  fixes  the  time  for  the  thing  in  any  event. 
Said  Mar  Sutra  the  son  of  R.  Na'hman :  Our  Mishna  which 
states  that  only  on  Sabbatical  years  it  may  be  done  so,  and  not 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  69 

in  an  ordinary  year,  must  also  be  explained,  that  because  the 
Sabbatical  year  is  exempt  from  tithe,  he  may  do  so  ;  but  in  an 
ordinary  year  it  must  not  be  done  so,  because  the  Sabbath  fixes 
it  for  tithe.  When  Rabbin  came  from  Palestine  he  said,  however, 
in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  that  Sabbath,  Heave-offering,  a  Yard, 
and  Price  all  do  not  fix  for  tithe,  only  in  things  on  which  all  the 
labor  belonging  to  them  is  already  done.^ 

Sabbath — to  state  that  the  law  is  not  after  Hillel  in  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha  :  If  one  transferred  fruit  from  one  place  to  another 
to  cut  it,  and  Sabbath  overtook  him,  R.  Jehudah  said  that  only 
Hillel  prohibited  to  eat  it  before  separating  tithe,  but  all  his  col- 
leagues differ  from  him. 

A  Yard — to  state  that  the  law  is  not  after  R.  Jacob  in  the 
following  Mishna,  which  says  that  whoso  passes  dates  through  the 
yard,  his  household  may  eat  of  them  moderately,  and  they  are 
free  from  tithe.  And  a  Boraitha,  in  addition  to  this  Mishna, 
states  that  R.  Jacob  says  tithe  must  be  separated,  and  R.  Jose  b. 
Jehudah  frees  it  from  tithe. 

Heave-offering — to  state  that  the  law  is  not  after  R.  Eliezer  in 
the  following  Mishna:  Fruit  of  which  the  heave-offering  was 
separated  before  all  the  labors  belonging  to  it  were  finished,  R. 
Eliezer  prohibits  to  eat  from  moderately,  but  the  sages  allow 
this. 

And  Price — as  we  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  Whoso 
bought  dates  from  a  man  of  the  common  people  in  a  place  where 
the  majority  of  gardeners  press  the  dates,  he  may  eat  of  them 
moderately ;  and  when  he  comes  to  give  tithe  of  them,  he  may 
separate  tithe  from  it  (but  it  is  not  necessary  to  separate  heave- 
offering).  And  from  this  Boraitha  we  have  learned  three 
things :  Firstly,  that  the  price  which  is  made  does  not  fix  for 
tithe  until  all  the  labor  is  done  ;  secondly,  that  the  majority  of 
the  common  people  do  separate  tithes ;  and  thirdly,  that  if  one 
comes  to  separate  tithes  from  fruits  bought  from  one  of  the  com- 
mon people,  from  a  doubt  lest  the  seller  had  not  yet  separated  the 
tithe,  he  may  separate  it  even  from  things  the  labors  belonging 
to  which  are  not  yet  finished. 

*  The  law  of  the  tithe  of  all  these  will  be  explained  in  Tract  Maasroth.  The 
meaning  of  "  Price"  is,  that  if  the  grain  was  sold  before  it  became  ripe,  it  does  not 
fix  it  for  tithe. 


CHAPTER  V. 

TIEGULATIONS  CONCERNING    LABORS   PERMITTED  AND  NOT    PERMITTED 

ON    BIBLICAL    FESTIVALS. 

MISHNA:  It  is  allowed  to  throw  down  fruit  (kept  on  the 
roof  for  drying)  by  a  trap-door  (into  the  yard)  on  the  festival,  but 
not  on  Sabbath.  It  is  also  allowed  to  cover  fruit,  or  jars  of  wine 
or  oil,  with  vessels  to  protect  them  from  rain.  One  may  also 
place  a  vessel  to  receive  rain  on  Sabbath. 

GEMARA  :  Of  which  quantity  does  the  Mishna  speak? 
Said  R.  Zera  in  the  name  of  R.  Assi,  according  to  others  R.  Assi 
in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  The  same  quantity  which  we  have 
learned  in  the  Mishna  (in  Sabbath,  p.  276).  One  may  even  clear 
off  four  or  five  chests  of  straw  or  grain  in  order  to  remove  obsta- 
cles to  instruction,  etc.  But  perhaps  there  it  is  different,  because 
there  are  obstacles  to  instruction ;  but  here,  where  it  is  not  the 
case,  it  may  be  a  less  quanity?  Or,  on  the  contrary,  there  the 
Mishna  speaks  of  Sabbath,  which  is  rigorous,  therefore  a  slight 
quantity  is  allowed.  But  here  it  is  a  festival,  perhaps  a  greater 
quantity  is  allowed  ?  It  can  be  interpreted  even  in  another  way  : 
There,  where  there  are  no  damages  of  money,  a  quantity  from 
four  to  five  is  allowed ;  but  here,  where  there  can  be  damages 
of  money,  even  more  is  also  allowed  ?  And  another  question : 
There  the  Mishna  teaches  that  one  must  not  clear  out  a  whole 
barn,  and  Samuel  explained  this  that  the  Mishna  meant  he  shall 
not  clear  out  the  whole  barn  for  fear  he  will  notice  pits  and  would 
like  to  fill  them  up  (ibid.  276).  How  is  the  law  in  our  case  ? 
Shall  we  assume  that  because  Sabbath  is  rigorous,  the  precaution- 
ary measure  must  be  taken ;  but  in  the  case  of  the  festival, 
which  is  lenient,  it  need  not  be  taken  ?  Or,  on  the  contrary, 
there,  where  although  the  reason  is  the  fear  of  interruption  in  the 
house  of  learning,  yet  it  is  not  allowed  to  clear  the  whole  barn, 
how  much  the  more  here,  where  such  a  reason  does  not  exist  ? 
And  another  question  :  Here  the  Mishna  teaches  that  fruit  must 
be  thrown  through  a  trap-door,  and  R,  Na'hman  said  in  addition 

7Q 


TRACT   BETZAH   (YOM   TOB).  yt 

to  this,  that  it  is  allowed  only  from  that  roof ;  but  to  throw  it 
from  this  roof  to  another,  it  is  not  allowed.  And  so  it  was  also 
taught  in  a  Boraitha,  that  the  fruit  must  not  be  carried  from  one 
roof  to  another,  although  the  roofs  are  of  equal  altitude.  Shall 
we  assume  that  only  in  the  case  of  the  festival  which  is  lenient 
this  is  prohibited  as  a  precautionary  measure,  lest  one  shall  come 
to  hold  cheap  the  holiday,  and  will  do  other  things,  but  on  Sab- 
bath which  is  rigorous  and  no  such  fear  exists,  perhaps  this  is 
allowed  ?  Or,  on  the  contrary,  as  here,  where  the  fruit  can  be 
damaged,  we  do  not  allow  this ;  there,  where  no  such  a  fear  exists, 
so  much  the  more  it  is  not  allowed.  And  another  question  :  A 
Boraitha  in  addition  to  this  Mishna  teaches  he  shall  not  let  it 
down  by  ropes  and  also  not  by  ladders.  Shall  we  say  that  only 
here,  where  the  fear  of  the  interruption  in  the  house  of  learning 
does  not  exist,  it  is  prohibited  ;  but  there,  where  such  a  fear  does 
exist,  it  is  allowed  ?  Or,  on  the  contrary,  here,  although  there 
is  fear  of  damages,  it  is  not  allowed,  so  much  the  more  there  ? 
All  these  questions  are  not  decided. 

^' And  fruits  may  be  covered^  Said  Ula:  Even  piled-up 
bricks  not  mortared  may  be  covered.  R.  Itz'hak,  however,  said 
only  fruit  fit  for  consumption  may  be  covered  with  vessels,  but 
no  other  things. 

"  One  may  place  vessels  to  receive  rainT  A  Boraitha  taught : 
When  the  vessel  was  full,  he  might  empty  it,  and  put  it  in  its 
former  place  again  ;  and  so  repeatedly.  The  handmill  of  Abayi 
was  exposed  to  the  rain  (and  he  had  not  enough  vessels  to  pro- 
tect it).  He  came  to  Rabba  his  Master,  and  asked ;  and  he 
answered  :  Go  and  place  your  bed  in  that  room  (where  the  hand- 
mill  was),  and  then  the  handmill  will  be  considered  as  a  night 
chamber,  which  may  be  removed  from  a  bedroom  (and  then  he 
can  remove  the  bed  again).  Abayi  himself  considered  the  law 
and  said  to  himself :  May  one  turn  a  clean  thing  into  an  objec- 
tionable thing  intentionally?  While  he  sat  and  thought  thus, 
the  handmill  cracked.  Said  he :  I  deserve  this  punishment  be- 
cause I  was  disobeying  my  Master. 

Samuel  said :  A  chamber-pot  and  similar  vessels  may  be 
removed,  and  voided  on  the  garbage ;  and  then  washed,  and 
returned.  The  schoolmen  who  heard  this  thought  that  the  dirt 
may  be  removed  only  together  with  another  vessel,  but  not 
without  another  vessel?  Come  and  hear:  Once  a  dead  mouse 
was  found  in  the  place  where  R.  Ashi's  spices  were  kept,  and  he 
said  :  Take  it  by  its  tail,  and  throw  it  out. 


72  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

MISHNA:  All  transgressions  of  the  precept  of  Shbuth,* 
whether  by  any  optional  actions,  or  actions  for  religious  purposes, 
are  also  such  on  the  festival.  The  following  actions  are  forbidden 
on  account  of  Shbuth  :  To  climb  trees,  mount  an  animal,  swim  in 
water,  clap  with  the  hands,  strike  on  the  hips,  or  dance.  The 
following  are  prohibited  as  optional  actions :  To  administer  jus- 
tice, to  acquire  a  woman  as  a  wife  (by  giving  a  ring,  money,  etc.), 
to  take  off  the  shoes  of  one  refusing  to  many  the  deceased 
brother's  widow  (Halitzah),  or  to  marry  such  a  brother's  widow. 
The  following  actions  are  prohibited  as  though  they  are  actions 
for  religious  purposes :  To  consecrate  anything,  to  value  sacred 
things,  to  pronounce  anything  as  devoted  (to  the  service  of  the 
Temple),  to  separate  heave-offerings  and  tithes.  All  these  have 
been  decided  to  be  prohibited  on  the  festival,  and  a  fortiori  on 
Sabbath.  (This  is  the  rule)  :  There  is  no  difference  between  the 
Sabbath  and  the  festival,  except  that  the  preparation  of  food  is 
permitted  on  the  latter. 

GEMARA :  To  climb  trees — lest  one  tear  off  something ; 
mount  an  animal — lest  one  should  cut  off  a  twig  (to  drive  it 
therewith);  to  swim — lest  one  make  a  swimming  bladder;  to 
clap  the  hands,  strike  on  the  hips,  dance — all  lest  one  fix  musical 
instruments. 

"  The  following  are  prohibited  as  optional.''  To  administer 
justice :  is  this  not  a  religious  act  ?  The  case  is,  when  there  is  a 
better  man  than  he  who  can  perform  it.  To  acquire  a  wife :  is 
this  not  a  religious  act  ?  The  case  is,  when  he  has  already  a  wife 
and  children.  The  ceremony  of  Halitzah  and  Jibiun  :  are  these 
not  religious  duties  ?  The  case  is,  when  there  is  an  elder  brother 
than  he,  and  the  duty  falls  on  the  elder  brother.  And  the  reason 
why  all  these  are  prohibited  is  as  a  precautionary  measure,  lest 
he  come  to  write.  And  these  are  prohibited,  though  religious  acts  : 
as  a  precautionary  measure,  lest  he  will  come  to  buy  and  sell.  To 
separate  heave -offerings,  etc. :  is  not  this  self-evident  ?  Taught 
R.  Joseph  :  The  case  is,  when  he  wants  to  give  it  to  the  priest  on 
the  same  day.  But  the  law  applies  only  to  things  wherefrom  it 
is  fit  to  separate  the  day  before ;  but  if  he  kneads  dough  on  the 
festival,  the  first  dough  may  be  separated  and  given  to  the  priest. 
All  these  on  the  festival,  etc. :  there  is  a  contradiction  to  this  (in 
the  first  Mishna  of  the  chapter) :  ''  One  may  throw  fruit  on"  the 
festival,  but  not  on  Sabbath  "  ?     Said  R.  Joseph  :  There   is  no 

*  See  above,  p.  67. 


TRACT    BETZAH    (YOM    TOB).  73 

difficulty:  Our  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  Eliezer:  that  the 
precautionary  measures  taken  for  Sabbath  are  to  be  taken  also  for 
festivals  ;  and  the  other  Mishna  is  according  to  Joshua,  who  says  : 
When  mother  and  son  fall  in  a  pit,  the  first  may  be  taken  out 
for  slaughtering,  and  then  by  connivance  the  other.  R.  Papa, 
however,  said  that  the  above  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  Beth 
Shammai,  and  the  first  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  Beth  Hillel. 
But  perhaps  it  is  not  so  ?  The  statement  of  Beth  Shammai  refers 
only  to  carrying  out,  but  not  to  handling  it?  Nay,  is  then 
handling  not  necessary  in  carrying  out  ? 

MISHNA :  Cattle  and  utensils  may  be  brought  as  far  only 
as  their  owners  may  go,  and  when  a  person  commits  his  cattle  to 
his  son  or  shepherd,  they  may  not  be  brought  or  driven  farther 
than  the  owner  may  go.  Utensils  that  are  appropriated  to  the 
exclusive  use  of  one  among  brothers  living  together  in  the  same 
house  may  be  brought  as  far  as  that  brother  may  go ;  but  if  they 
are  not  thus  exclusively  appropriated  to  one  only,  they  may  be 
brought  to  the  places  where  all  may  go. 

A  utensil  that  had  been  borrowed  since  the  eve  of  the  festival 
may  be  carried  as  far  as  the  borrower  may  go  ;  but  if  on  the  fes- 
tival, as  far  as  the  lender  may  go.  And  when  one  woman  has 
borrowed  of  another  spice,  water,  or  salt,  to  make  dough,  they 
may  be  carried  as  far  as  both  may  go.  R.  Jehudah  excepts 
water,  because  its  substance  does  not  remain  visible. 

GEMARA  •  Our  Mishna  seems  to  be  not  in  accordance  with 
R.  Dosa  of  the  following  Boraitha  :  R.  Dosa,  according  to  others 
Abba  Saul,  said  :  Whoso  had  bought  an  animal  from  his  neighbor 
on  the  eve  of  a  festival,  although  he  did  not  receive  it  until  the 
festival,  the  animal  may  be  driven  as  far  as  the  buyer  may  go. 
The  same  is  the  case  with  him  who  gives  an  animal  to  the  shep- 
herd. If  the  arrangement  was  made  before  the  festival,  but  he 
delivered  it  on  it,  it  must  be  considered  as  the  shephert^'s?  Nay, 
the  Mishna  can  be  explained  also  in  accordance  with  R.  Dosa, 
and  it  presents  no  difficulty.  Our  Mishna  refers  to  a  case  where  there 
are  two  shepherds  in  the  town  (when  it  was  not  known  to  which 
of  them  he  would  give) ;  therefore  it  is  considered  as  the  owner's. 
But  R.  Dosa  speaks  of  a  case  where  there  is  but  one  shepherd. 
This  explanation  seems  to  be  right,  because  our  Mishna  teaches, 
"  to  his  son  or  shepherd."  And  as  there  may  be  more  than  one 
son,  so  is  it  about  shepherds. 

Said  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  The 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Dosa. 


74  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  two  men  had  borrowed  one  garment, 
one  should  go  in  it  to  the  House  of  Prayer  in  the  morning,  the 
other  to  the  Dancing-house  in  the  evening.  Thus  one  will  make 
an  Erub  to  the  north  and  the  other  to  the  south.  Whoso  has  made 
an  Erub  to  the  north  may  go  in  this  garment  only  as  far  as  he 
who  has  made  an  Erub  to  the  south  may  go  in  it  to  the  north ; 
and  vice  versa.  But  if  either  has  made  an  Erub  at  his  legal 
limit,  so  that  by  giving  the  right  to  move  two  thousand  ells  more 
in  one  direction,  he  loses  the  right  to  walk  in  the  opposite  direc- 
tion even  one  step,  then  the  garment  belonging  to  both  may  not 
be  moved  from  the  town  by  either. 

It  was  taught :  If  two  men  bought  a  barrel  and  an  animal  in 
partnership  on  the  eve  of  a  festival,  the  barrel  may  be  moved  by 
either  to  places  where  he  goes ;  but  the  animal  is  not  allowed  to 
be  driven  except  to  places  where  both  are  allowed  to  go.  So  is 
the  decree  of  Rabh.  But  according  to  Samuel,  the  case  is  the 
same  with  the  barrel  as  with  the  animal.  (Let  us  see :)  What 
is  the  reason  of  Rabh's  theory?  If  Rabh  holds  the  theory  of 
premeditated  choice,  then  why  shall  the  animal  not  be  allowed  ? 
And  if  he  does  not,  why  shall  the  barrel  be  allowed  ?  We  may 
say  that  in  reality  he  holds  this  theory  (and  therefore  the  barrel 
is  allowed) ;  but  the  animal  is  different,  because  it  was  alive  at 
the  twilight  before  the  festival,  and  the  blood  changing  its  place 
from  one  member  to  the  other  on  the  festival,  neither  half  can  be 
chosen  by  either  man  (and  as  the  partners  have  to  go  in  different 
directions,  neither  may  move  the  animal).  Said  R.  Kahana  and 
R.  Ashi  to  Rabh  :  Even  according  to  your  theory,  if  the  animal 
would  be  slaughtered,  both  partners  would  be  allowed  to  eat  of 
it,  although  the  blood  was  circulating  from  one  half  designated 
for  one  man  to  the  other  half  of  the  other  man.  Consequently 
the  circulation  of  the  blood  is  not  feared  in  case  of  the  law  of 
Muktzah.  Why,  then,  shall  it  affect  the  law  of  legal  limit  ?  Rabh 
was  silent.  What  is  in  reality  the  law  ?  R.  Hoshia  said  :  There 
is  the  theory  of  choice,  and  R.  Johanan  says  :  There  is  not.  Mar 
Zutra  lectured  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Hoshia. 

Samuel  said  :  An  ox  from  the  dealer  may  be  moved  by  every 
buyer  to  the  places  where  he  goes ;  but  an  ox  belonging  to  the 
herdsman  may  be  driven  only  where  the  people  of  the  town  have 
a  right  to  go. 

"  A  utensil  borrowed  since  the  eve  of,''  etc.  Is  not  this  self- 
evident  ?  The  case  is,  when  one  actually  received  it  on  the  festi- 
val, we  would  assume  that  as  at  twilight  it  was  yet  in  the  lender's 


TRACT  BETZAH  (YOM  TOB).  75' 

house,  it  should  not  yet  be  considered  as  the  borrower's,  he  comes 
to  teach  us  that  the  arrangement  suffices  to  make  it  considered 
as  the  borrower's.  And  this  is  in  support  of  R.  Johanan's  de- 
cree, who  said  :  One  who  had  arranged  to  borrow  a  utensil  from 
his  neighbor  on  the  eve,  and  took  it  on  the  festival,  is  considered 
as  the  borrower's. 

''But  if  on  the  festival^'  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evident?  The 
case  is,  when  it  was  the  custom  of  this  man  to  borrow  of  that 
man  often,  and  we  would  assume  that  the  lender  had  the  inten- 
tion to  give  it  to  him  from  the  eve,  and  therefore  it  should  be 
regarded  as  the  borrower's,  he  comes  to  teach  us  this  is  not  the 
case ;  because  it  may  happen  that  meanwhile  another  man  may 
come  and  borrow  it. 

''And  when  a  woman  borrowed,''  etc.  When  R.  Abba  in- 
tended to  go  to  Palestine,  he  prayed  that  it  should  be  the  will 
of  the  Lord  he  should  say  a  thing  which  should  be  accepted  (by 
those  sages).  When  he  arrived  there,  he  found  R.  Johanan,  R. 
Hanina  bar  Papi,  and  R.  Zera ;  according  to  others,  R.  Abahu, 
R.  Simeon  b.  Pazzi,  and  R.  Itz'hak  of  Naphha,  who  were  sitting 
interpreting  our  Mishna,  saying :  Why,  let  the  water  and  the  salt 
be  ignored  in  the  dough  ?  Said  R.  Abba  to  them :  Would  it  be 
right,  when  one  threw  in  one  Kab  of  wheat  into  ten  Kabs  of 
his  neighbor's,  shall  the  owner  of  the  nine  Kabs  take  the  one 
Kab  as  liis  own  and  enjoy  it  ?  (The  same  shall  be  the  case  here. 
Because  water  and  salt  are  of  little  value,  shall  they  be  ignored  ?) 
They  were  laughing  at  him.  Said  R.  Abahu  to  them :  Why  do 
you  laugh  ?  Have  I  taken  your  garments  ?  They  laughed  again. 
In  reality,  what  is  the  reason  of  the  Mishna's  teaching?  Said 
Abayi :  That  is  a  precautionary  measure,  lest  they  will  make  the 
whole  dough  in  partnership,  Rabha  said  :  The  reason  is  because 
spices  give  a  flavor,  and  everything  that  gives  a  flavor  cannot  be 
ignored.  R.  Ashi  said  :  The  reason  is,  this  prohibition  is  only 
temporary,  and  anything  temporarily  prohibited  cannot  be  ignored, 
even  when  it  is  among  a  thousand. 

"  R.  Jehudah  excepts  water T  Did  R.  Jehudah  except  water, 
and  not  salt?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha  :  R.  Jehudah 
said  that  water  and  salt  both  are  ignored,  either  in  dough  or  in  a 
pot  ?  It  presents  no  difficulty  :  Our  Mishna  speaks  of  Astrakhan 
salt,  which  is  coarse,  and  must  not  be  ignored,  while  the  Boraitha 
means  salt  of  Sodom,  which  is  fine  and  is  ignored.  But  we  found 
another  Boraitha,  which  says  that  according  to  R.  Jehudah  water 
and  salt  are  ignored  only  in  dough,  but  not  in  a  pot,  because  of 


70  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

its  wetness  (and  it  imparts  a  taste  to  every  part).  It  presents  no 
difficulty  :  One  Boraitha  applies  to  a  pot  where  something  thick 
is  cooked,  while  the  other  means  a  pot  of  soup. 

MISHNA  :  Burning  coals  may  be  carried  as  far  as  the  owners 
may  go,  but  a  flame  may  be  carried  everywhere.  If  a  coal  of 
consecrated  fire  has  been  applied  to  profane  use,  the  sin  of 
desecration  has  been  committed  ;  but  though  no  profane  use  must 
be  made  of  a  flame  of  sacred  fire,  yet  a  person  who  applies  it  thus 
has  not  incurred  the  penalty,  and  thus,  if  anybody  carries  (on 
Sabbath)  a  burning  coal  into  a  public  place,  he  is  guilty,  but  does, 
not  incur  the  penalty  for  a  flame.  The  water  of  a  well  belonging 
to  an  individual  may  be  carried  as  far  as  that  man  may  go  ;  but 
if  it  belongs  to  a  town,  as  far  as  the  inhabitants  thereof  may  go. 
The  water  of  a  well  made  for  the  use  of  travellers  (such  as  those) 
who  come  from  Babylon,  may  be  carried  as  far  as  he  who  draAvs 
it  may  go. 

GEMARA  :  The  rabbis  taught :  Five  things  have  been  taught 
about  the  burning  coals :  They  may  be  carried  as  far  as  the 
owners  may  go  ;  but  a  flame,  everywhere.  The  sin  of  desecra- 
tion applies  only  to  a  coal,  but  not  to  a  flame ;  it  must  not,  how- 
ever, be  used.  A  coal  of  idolatry  is  prohibited  to  be  used,  but 
the  flame  is  permitted.  Whoso  carries  a  coal  into  public  ground 
on  Sabbath  is  culpable,  and  a  flame  is  innocent ;  and  whoso  has 
made  a  vow  not  to  receive  any  benefit  from  his  neighbor  must 
not  use  his  coal,  but  may  use  his  flame.  Why  may  a  consecrated 
flame  not  be  used,  but  a  flame  of  idolatry  may  be  ?  In  regard  to 
idolatry,  which  is  repulsive,  and  men  avoid  it  in  any  event,  no 
precautionary  measure  was  taken  ;  but  to  a  consecrated  thing 
which  is  not  so,  it  was  taken. 

''A  well  belonging  to  an  individual^'  etc.  Rabha  suggested 
the  following  contradiction  before  R.  Na'hman :  Our  Mishna 
teaches  that  the  water  of  an  individual  may  be  carried  only  as  far 
as  he  may  go,  and  in  another  Boraitha  we  have  learned  :  Running 
rivers  and  springing  wells  are  to  be  considered  as  the  feet  of  every 
man  (Sabbath,  p.  261).  Said  Rabba  :  The  Mishna  refers  to  a  well 
where  water  is  not  springing,  but  collected,  and  the  same  was 
taught  in  the  name  of  Samuel  by  R.  Hyya  bar  Abbin. 

*'  Babylonian  travellers "  :  as  the  feet  of  him  who  draws  it. 
It  was  taught :  If  one  draw  it  and  give  it  to  another  man,  R. 
Na'hman  said  it  may  be  considered  as  the  feet  of  him  for  whom 
it  is  drawn  ;  but  R.  Shesheth  says,  as  his  who  draws.  In  what 
point  do  they  differ  ?     One  holds  that  the  well  may  be  considered 


TRACT   BETZAH   (YOM    TOB).  77 

as  ownerless  (and  if  the  water  was  drawn  for  any  one  he  becomes 
the  owner),  and  the  other  holds  that  they  are  partners. 

MISHNA  :  If  one  has  fruit  in  another  town  of  which  the 
inhabitants  only  made  an  Erub  (but  not  the  owner),  they  must 
not  bring  his  fruit  to  him ;  but  if  he  has  made  the  Erub,  the  fruit 
may  be  carried  to  any  place  he  is  allowed  to  go. 

When  one  has  invited  guests,  they  must  not  carry  home  with 
them  anything  from  the  table,  unless  he  had  granted  it  to  them 
the  day  before  the  festival. 

GEMARA :  It  was  taught :  If  one  has  deposited  fruit  at  his 
neighbor's  house,  Rabh  said  the  fruit  is  to  be  considered  the 
property  of  the  keeper ;  but  Samuel  said  it  is  still  regarded  as 
the  property  of  the  depositor.  An  objection  was  made,  based 
upon  our  Mishna :  If  he  made  also  an  Erub,  the  fruit  may  be 
brought  to  him.  Now  if,  according  to  Rabh,  it  is  considered  the 
property  of  the  keeper,  what  is  the  use  of  his  making  an  Erub  ? 
Said  R.  Huna:  The  disciples  of  Rabh  explain  our  Mishna  that 
it  refers  to  a  case  when  they  assigned  a  corner  for  his  fruit  (so 
that  it  is  as  if  under  his  supervision).  Come  and  hear  (another 
objection) :  "  They  must  not  carry  home,"  etc.,  "  unless  he  had 
granted  it,"  etc.  Now,  if  it  is  considered  the  keeper's,  what  is 
the  use  of  granting  on  the  day  before  ?  The  answer  is,  that 
granting  is  equal  to  assigning  a  separate  place,  as  explained 
above,  and  if  you  wish  it  can  be  said  that  the  case  when  granting 
is  different. 

R.  Hana  bar  Hanilai  suspended  meat  on  the  bar  of  the  door, 
and  went  away.  After  when  he  wished  to  use  it  he  came  before 
R.  Huna  and  asked  him  whether  he  can  use  it  or  not  (because 
the  meat  was  brought  to  him  by  a  butcher  out  of  town,  and  he 
feared  perhaps  he  brought  it  from  over  the  legal  limit),  and  R. 
Huna  answered :  If  yourself  have  suspended  it,  you  may  use  it, 
but  if  the  butcher  suspended  it,  you  may  not. 

MISHNA  :  One  must  not  give  drink  to,  or  slaughter,  animals 
living  wild,  but  one  may  do  it  to  domestic  animals.  And  what 
are  called  domestic  animals?  When  they  are  at  night  in  the 
town  or  the  suburbs ;  and  those  which  are  in  the  open  field  are 
called  wild. 

GEMARA  :  To  what  purpose  are  both  drinking  and  slaugh- 
tering stated  ?  It  is  a  thing  by  the  way :  it  comes  to  teach  us 
that  before  slaughtering  it  is  good  the  animal  shall  drink,  because 
it  is  then  easier  to  take  off  the  skin. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Wild  beasts  are  called  those  which  depart 


78  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

about  the  time  of  Passover,  and  feed  in  the  marshes  in  the  sum- 
mer, and  return  in  the  fall ;  and  domestic  are  called  those  which 
go  out  every  day  beyond  the  legal  limit,  but  return  every  night. 
Rabbi,  however,  said  :  Both  kinds  mentioned  are  called  domestic  ; 
but  which  are  called  wild  beasts  ?  Those  that  never  come  to  in- 
habited places.  Does,  then.  Rabbi  hold  the  theory  of  Muktzah 
(prohibiting  to  slaughter  even  a  wild  beast)  ?  Did  not  his  son,  R. 
Simeon,  ask  him  :  Dates  which  become  not  ripe  on  the  tree,  but 
are  put  in  boxes  of  palm-branches  and  remain  there  till  they 
ripen,  what  is  the  law  about  eating  them  on  Sabbath  according 
to  R.  Simeon  ?  And  he  answered :  The  theory  of  Muktzah, 
according  to  R.  Simeon,  does  not  exist  at  all  ?  (And  as  we  know 
that  Rabbi's  opinion  was  according  to  R.  Simeon,  consequently 
he  does  not  hold  the  theory  of  Muktzah  at  all  ?)  Rabbi  said  to 
the  sages  as  follows :  According  to  my  opinion,  no  theory  of 
Muktzah  exists.  But  even  in  your  opinion,  would  you  not  own 
to  me  that  the  animals  which  return  in  the  fall  must  be  called 
domestic  ?  And  the  sages  answered  :  No ;  in  our  opinion  they 
are  still  called  wild  beasts. 


END    OF  TRACT   BETZAH   (YOM  TOB). 


TRACT  SUCCAH  (BOOTHS). 


CONTENTS, 


PAGE 

Synopsis  of  Subjects  of  Volume  VII. — Tract  Succah,     .        v 


CHAPTER  I. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Building  of  a  Legal  Booth 
FOR  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  its  Walls,  and 
Roofing, i 


CHAPTER  II. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Situations  in  which  a  Booth 

MAY  be  Placed,  What  must  be  Done  in  it,  etc.,     .        .      26 

CHAPTER  III. 

Regulations  concerning  Palm  Branches,  Myrtles,  Wil- 
lows, AND  Citrons  used  on  the  First  Day  of  the 
Feast  of  Tabernacles, 42 

CHAPTER    IV. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Four  Kinds  tied  with  the 
LuLAB,  concerning  Hallel,  Pouring  the  Water  on 
the  Altar, 62 

CHAPTER  V. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Enjoyments  and  the  Songs 
IN  the  Temple  during  the  Time  of  the  Sacrifices, 
AND  their  Order, 7^ 


To  THE  President  of  "Temple  Israel,"    New  York, 
DANIEL  P.  HAYS,  Esq. 

In  consideration  that  through  his  influence,  this  Congregation  is 
the  first  and  unique  among  the  reformed  to  establish  a  Succah  in 
connection  with  their  Temple,  the  Editor  takes  much  pleasure  in 
dedicating  the  tract  which  treats  about  the  Succah,  to  him,  to  the 
Rabbi,  and  all  the  associates  who  took  part  in  introducing  same. 

Very  respectfully, 

MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON. 


New  York,  Tuesday  ^JK^  riDB,  April  25th,  1899. 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


or 


VOLUME  VII —TRACT  SUCCAH." 


CHAPTER  I. 

MiSHNA  I.  About  the  legal  height  and  width  of  the  booth  which  is  to 
be  used  during  the  seven  days  of  Tabernacles.  What  was  to  be  done  when 
it  was  higher  or  lower  than  the  prescribed  size  ?  If  one  has  placed  four 
poles  and  roofed  them,  how  is  the  law  ?  The  different  opinions  of  R.  Jacob 
and  the  sages  on  this  point.  Whence  is  deduced  from  biblical  passages  the 
size  prescribed  by  the  sages  ?  Did  the  Shekhina  descend  from  heaven  to 
earth  ;  and  also  Moses  and  Elijah,  did  they  ascend  to  heaven,  or  not  ?  And 
in  the  latter  case,  how  are  to  be  explained  the  passages  which  state  that 
they  did  ?  The  ells  which  are  mentioned  in  the  Scriptures,  how  many  spans 
did  they  contain  ?  When  there  is  a  difference  in  the  biblical  passages 
between  the  Massorah  {i.e.,  how  they  are  written)  and  the  reading  of  it, 
what  must  be  considered  for  practice  ?  How  shall  the  Succah  be  consid- 
ered— as  a  temporary  or  permanent  dwelling  ?  The  booths  of  potters  or 
watchmen,  can  they  be  used  for  a  legal  Succah  ?      .         .         .         .         i-io 

MiSHNAS  II.  to  VIII.  How  about  an  old  Succah  1  What  is  called  an 
old  Succah  ?  How  about  a  Succah  under  a  tree,  or  if  a  cloth  was  spread 
over  the  roof  of  the  Succah  ?  If  one  Succah  was  over  another  ?  What  kind 
of  material  must  be  used  for  the  roof  of  the  Succah  ?  How  to  beautify  the 
religious  duties  for  the  sake  of  the  Lord,  and  from  what  passage  of  the 
Scriptures  this  is  deduced.  If  bundles  of  straw,  wood,  or  twigs  may  be  used 
for  the  roof  of  the  Succah.  The  two  things  which  R.  Jacob  heard  from  R. 
Johanan  and  the  three  things  which  Rabha  bar  bar  Hana  has  heard  in  the 
name  of  the  same,  and  they  could  not  imagine  the  real  meaning  of  them,  and 
how  the  latter  Amoraim  tried  to  find  it  out.  What  Hana  bar  Abba,  and  R. 
Hisda  in  the  name  of  Rabina  bar  Shila,  and  Meremar  said  and  lectured 
about  the  roofing  of  the  Succah.     How  it  is  when   one  wants  to  cover  the 

*  See  Introduction  to  Synopsis  in  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxix. ,  also  note  at 
end  of  Synopsis  in  Vol.  V. 


vi  SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS. 

Succah  with  boards,  the  size  of  same,  and  how  they  are  to  be  laid.  What  is 
to  be  done  if  small  rafters,  over  which  is  no  ceiling,  are  to  be  used  for  a 
booth.     The  difference  of  opinion  between  the  schools   of  Shammai  and 

Hillel,  and  R.  Jehudah  and  R.  Meir, 10-19 

MiSHNAS  IX.  to  XIII.  If  one  likes  to  roof  his  booth  with  iron  spits.  If 
one  likes  to  suspend  textile  walls  from  the  roof  downwards.  If  the  roof  was 
three  spans  distant  from  the  walls.  How  is  the  case  with  a  court  sur- 
rounded by  balconies  ?  The  law  of  a  crooked  wall.  If  one  likes  to  make  a 
Succah  in  the  form  of  a  cone.  About  a  reed  mat  made  for  sleeping  on, 
whether  a  Succah  can  be  covered  with  it ;  the  size  of  it.  A  mat  made  of 
bark  or  papyrus,  if  large,  may  be  used  for  a  cover,         .        .        .        19-25 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  VII.  How  is  it  when  one  sleeps  under  a  bed  in  the 
booth  ?  About  Tabbi,  the  slave  of  Rabban  Gamaliel,  who  was  a  scholar. 
If  one  likes  to  support  the  Succah  with  a  bedstead.  If  a  Succah  is  covered 
thinly,  what  must  be  more — the  sunshine  or  the  shadow  ?  If  one  constructs 
a  Succah  on  top  of  a  wagon,  or  on  board  of  a  vessel.  What  happened  to 
Rabban  Gamaliel  and  R.  Aqiba  when  they  were  on  board  of  a  vessel,  and 
the  latter  made  there  a  Succah.  Whether  a  Succah  can  be  made  on  the 
back  of  a  camel.  Can  a  living  animal  be  used  as  a  wall  to  the  Succah  ? 
How  is  it  with  an  elephant — a  living  or  dead  one  ?  How  is  the  law  about  a 
partition  not  made  by  human  hands,  if  it  can  be  considered  legally  as  a  wall 
to  the  Succah  ?  If  one  makes  a  Succah  between  trees  which  form  side-walls. 
How  is  it  about  the  delegates  for  religious  purposes — are  they  obliged  to  or 
exempted  from  the  duty  of  the  Succah  ?  How  is  it  with  a  mourner,  with  a 
bridegroom  and  his  attendants,  concerning  the  duty  of  the  Succah  ?  How 
is  it  with  those  who  are  on  the  road  in  the  day-time,  and  those  who  are  on 
the  road  in  the  night-time  only.  How  is  it  with  the  watchman  of  a  tower, 
or  the  gardens  ?  How  is  it  with  the  sick  ?  How  is  it  about  those  who  are 
afflicted  ?  What  Rabban  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  did  when  two  dates  were 
brought  to  him  to  taste  out  of  the  Succah,  and  Rabban  Gamaliel  when  a  jar 
of  water  was  brought  to  him  when  he  was  out  of  the  Succah  ;  and  what 
R.  Zadok  did  when  food  less  than  the  size  of  an  tgg  was  brought  to  him  out 
of  the  Succah, 26-33 

MiSHNAS  VIII.  to  X.  How  many  meals  must  be  eaten  in  the  Succah 
during  the  seven  days  ?  The  difference  of  opinion  between  R.  Eliezer  and 
the  sages  on  that  point.  How  they  both  deduce  it  from  the  passages  of  the 
Scriptures.  If  one  makes  amends  with  extra  dishes  in  the  Succah,  has  he  done 
his  duty  ?  The  manager  of  the  house  of  Agrippa  the  king  asked  R.  Eliezer 
about  his  two  Succahs  and  his  two  wives,  which  he  had  in  two  different  cities 
in  Palestine,  and  what  the  latter  answered.  If  it  is  allowed  to  build  a  Succah 
in  the  intermediate  days,  and  what  is  to  be  done  when  a  Succah  becomes 
ruined  during  the  seven  days.  Can  one  fulfil  his  duties  in  his  neighbor's  Suc- 
cah, or  must  each  one  have  his  own  Succah  ?  What  R.  Eliezer  said  to  R.  Ilai 
when  he  came  to  visit  him  in  the  city  of  Lud.  What  happened  to  R.  Eliezer 
when  he  took  his  rest  in  the  booth  of  R.  Johanan  bar  Ilai  in  the  city  of  Kisri. 
There  was  not  one  tribe  in  Israel  from  which  a  judge  did  not  descend  (see 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  vii 

the  explanation  of  it,  p.  35,  footnote).  What  happened  to  the  same  when  he 
took  his  rest  in  Upper  Galilea,  and  was  asked  thirty  Halakhas  about  the  law 
of  the  Succah.  What  was  said  of  Rabban  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  the  Master  of 
R.  Eliezer,  of  all  his  habits  and  customs,  and  that  R.  Eliezer  his  disciple 
conducted  himself  similarly.  About  the  eighty  disciples  of  Hillel  the  Elder. 
Who  was  the  greatest  of  all,  and  who  the  least,  and  what  was  said  about  the 
latter.  What  the  Elders  of  the  schools  of  Shammai  and  Hillel  said  when 
they  visited  R.  Johanan  b.  Hahoronith,  and  found  him  sitting  with  his  head 
and  the  greater  part  of  his  body  in  the  booth,  and  the  table  was  in  the  house. 
How  is  it  with  women,  slaves,  and  minors — are  they  exempt  from  the  Succah  ? 
What  shall  be  the  age  of  a  minor  to  be  considered  so  ?  What  Shammai 
the  Elder  did  when  his  daughter-in-law  gave  birth  to  a  son  during  the 
Feast  of  Tabernacles.  How  the  Succah  shall  be  used  during  the  seven  days 
of  the  festival  as  a  regular  domicile,  and  the  house  as  an  occasional  abode. 
How  is  it  when  it  rains  ?  Where  the  finest  vessels  and  utensils  must  be 
kept  during  the  time  of  Tabernacles,  and  which  of  the  inferior  of  them  are 
allowed  to  be  kept  in  the  Succah.  What  R.  Joseph  did  when  a  wind  blew 
the  chips  of  the  covering  into  the  dish,  when  he  was  sitting  in  the  Succah, 
and  what  Abayi  asked  him.  What  an  eclipse  of  the  sun  means  to  the  whole 
world.  When  the  sun  and  the  moon  are  eclipsed,  it  is  an  ill  omen  to  the 
enemies  of  Israel,  so  maintains  R.  Meir.  On  account  of  four  things  the 
sun  is  eclipsed.  For  four  things  the  property  of  householders  becomes 
annihilated, 33-41 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  III.  The  law  about  the  palm  branch,  the  size  of  it,  if  it 
was  acquired  by  test  or  dried,  or  if  it  was  from  a  grove.  What  R.  Huna 
said  to  the  sellers  of  myrtles — what  they  shall  do  when  they  buy  myrtles  of 
Gentiles.  How  is  the  law  if  a  public  street  is  roofed  for  the  purpose  of  a 
Succah.  What  R.  Na'hman  said  to  the  sages  when  an  old  woman  com- 
plained that  the  exilarch  and  all  the  sages  of  the  house  of  the  exilarch  are 
sitting  in  a  robbed  Succah.  If  a  citron  cannot  be  found,  can  it  be  replaced 
by  a  lemon  or  not  ?  If  the  point  of  the  citron  was  broken  off.  If  the  leaves 
of  the  palm  branch  were  torn  off.  How  the  law  is  if  the  "  twins  "  of  the 
Lulab  are  divided.  The  prescribed  size  of  a  Lulab  and  a  myrtle.  How 
many  boughs  of  myrtle  ?  How  the  law  is  if  a  bough  of  a  myrtle  has  more 
berries  than  leaves.  If  it  was  a  Tzaphtzapha.  If  a  greater  number  of 
leaves  have  dropped  off.  If  the  tip  has  been  broken  off.  If  a  Lulab  must  be 
tied  up,  and  how  it  shall  be  tied  together  with  the  myrtle  and  the  willow. 
Of  what  places  must  a  willow  be  taken.  The  difference  of  opinion  between 
R.  Ishmael,  R.  Tarphon,  and  R.  Aqiba  about  the  prescribed  sizes  of  the 
Lulab,  myrtle,  willow,  and  citron.  What  Samuel  said  to  the  sellers  of 
myrtles, 42-50 

MiSHNAS  IV.  to  VII.  How  is  it  with  a  citron  which  was  taken  off  a  tree 
less  than  three  years  old  ?  What,  if  it  was  of  Demaif  What  is  the  mini- 
mum size  of  a  small  citron  and  the  maximum  of  a  large  one  ?  How  is  the 
law  if  a  citron  has  been  peeled  and  gets  the  color  of  a  red  date  ?  If  it  has  a 
hole.  How  is  an  unripe  citron  ?  What  makes  a  citron  unbeantiful  ?  The 
Lulab  which  must  be  tied  with  its  own  kind  only,  according  to  R.  Jehudah, 


viii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

what  is  to  be  called  its  own  kind  ?  The  objection  of  R.  Meir,  who  relates 
that  the  inhabitants  of  Jerusalem  tied  a  Lulab  with  gold  lace,  and  what  the 
sages  answered  to  this.  What  Rabba  said  to  the  men  who  tied  the  Hosha- 
noth  for  the  exilarch.  How  to  prevent  an  intervention  between  the  Lulab 
and  the  other  things  which  are  to  be  tied  with  it.  The  myrtle  bough  used 
for  religious  duties — may  it  be  smelled,  or  not  ?  And  how  is  it  with  the 
citron  ?  With  what  hands  the  Lulab  and  the  citron  must  be  handled.  Why 
do  we  pronounce  the  benediction  on  the  Lulab  only  ?  When  must  the 
Lulab  be  shaken  ?  How  is  it  to  be  shaken  ?  What  is  the  law  if  one  is  on 
the  road  and  has  no  Lulab  ?  When  is  Hallel  to  be  read  ?  Who  must  read 
it  ?  From  what  chapters  of  the  Psalms  the  Hallel  is  said.  What  the  reader 
shall  say,  and  what  the  congregation  shall  answer  in  the  saying  of  Hallel. 

What  verses  are  to  be  repeated  in  Hallel, 50-56 

MiSHNAS  Vin.  to  XL  What  is  the  law  when  one  buys  a  Lulab  from  a 
common  man  in  the  Sabbatical  year.  Is  a  citron  equal  to  a  tree  in  all 
respects  ?  Does  the  fruit  of  the  Sabbatical  year  become  exchanged,  if  it 
is  done  in  the  manner  of  buying  and  selling  ?  The  Sabbatical  year  holds 
the  money  exchanged  for  its  fruits.  May  both  the  fruit  of  Sabbatical  year 
and  of  second  tithe  be  exchanged  for  wild  game,  cattle,  and  fowl,  when  they 
are  alive  or  slaughtered  ?  How  the  Lulab  was  used  in  the  second  Temple, 
and  in  the  country  at  that  time,  and  what  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  has  ordained 
after  its  destruction.  When  the  first  day  of  Tabernacles  falls  on  a  Sabbath. 
What  happened  to  Rabban  Gamaliel,  R.  Elazar  b.  Azariah,  and  R.  Aqiba 
when  the  former  bought  a  citron  for  a  thousand  Zuz,  and  what  he  did  with 
it.  W^hat  R.  Elazar  b.  Zadok  relates  how  the  custom  of  the  men  of  Jerusa- 
lem was.  When  the  Lulab  may  be  put  in  water,  when  water  may  be  added, 
and  when  it  must  be  changed.  At  what  age  a  minor  has  to  shake  the 
Lulab,  to  perform  the  duties  of  Tzitzith,  Tefilin,  and  his  father  to  teach  him 
the  Torah,  and  to  read  with  him  the  Shema, 56-61 

CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNA  I.  The  Lulab  and  willow  to  surround  the  altar  were  sometimes 
used  on  six  days,  and  sometimes  on  seven  days  of  the  festival.  The  Hallel 
and  the  eating  of  peace-ofiferings  took  place  on  eight  days,  and  the  pipes  were 
played  on  sometimes  five,  sometimes  six  days.  In  which  case  was  the  Lulab 
used  seven  days  ?  Whence  do  we  deduce  this  from  the  Scriptures  ?  Why 
do  we  use  the  Lulab  seven  days  in  memory  of  the  Temple,  and  not  the  wil- 
low ?  Do  the  Lulab  and  the  willow  violate  the  Sabbath  or  not  ?  Can  one 
fulfil  the  ceremony  of  the  willow  with  that  which  is  tied  to  the  Lulab  ?  May 
a  man  go  more  than  ten  Parsaoth  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  ?       .         .         62-66 

MiSHNAS  II.  to  IV.  How  was  the  commandment  to  take  the  willow  ful- 
filled in  Jerusalem  ?  What  was  said  when  they  went  around  the  altar  with 
the  willow  ?  The  saying  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Jochai,  that  he  could  exempt  the 
whole  world  from  the  day  of  judgment,  since  he  was  born  till  that  time,  etc. 
Must  the  benediction  on  the  Lulab  be  pronounced  all  the  seven  days,  or  on 
the  first  day  only  ?  Shall  the  benediction  of  the  time  be  pronounced  with  the 
Lulab  and  the  Succah,  and  when  ?  Come  and  see  :  The  usages  of  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  are  not  as  the  usages  of  human  beings.  Can  the  citron 
be  eaten  during  the  seven  days,  or  on  the  eighth  day  only  ?    Th?  difference 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS.  ix 

of  opinion  between  the  Tanaim  and  Amoraim,  if  the  ceremony  of  the  willow 
is  based  upon  a  tradition  of  the  prophets,  or  it  is  only  a  custom  of  theirs. 
Must  the  benediction  of  the  time  be  pronounced  on  the  eighth  day  of  the 
Tabernacles,  which  is  a  separate  holiday  ?  The  Hallel  and  the  enjoying  of 
the  peace-offerings  were  for  eight  days.  How  so  ?  How  was  the  pouring  out 
of  the  water  ?  Why  the  people  called  out  to  him  who  poured  out  the  water: 
"Raise  thy  hand."  Why  were  the  holes  of  the  two  silver  basins  of  which 
the  wine  and  water  were  poured  out  not  equal  in  size?  The  saying  of  R. 
Elazar,  that  the  doing  of  charity  is  greater  than  all  the  sacrifices.  Charity 
is  rewarded  only  in  accordance  with  the  kindness  with  which  it  is  done. 
In  three  things  is  the  bestowing  of  favors  greater  than  charity,        .        66-75 

CHAPTER   V. 

MiSHNAS  I.  and  II.  The  difference  of  opinion  about  the  music  of  the 
sacrifices,  if  it  was  instrumental  or  vocal.  How  pious  and  distinguished 
men  danced  before  the  people  with  lighted  flambeaux  in  their  hands,  and 
what  they  said.  After  reaching  the  gate  they  turned  westward  ;  what  they 
said  about  their  ancestors  and  themselves.  The  beauty  of  the  Temple 
which  was  rebuilt  by  Herod  the  Great,  and  the  advice  which  the  sages  gave 
to  him.  The  beauty  of  the  diuplustin  (double  portico)  of  Alexandria  in 
Egypt,  all  that  it  contained,  the  seventy-one  golden  chairs  for  the  Sanhedrin, 
and  how  all  this  was  destroyed  by  Alexander  of  Macedonia.  The  separate 
places  for  males  and  females  in  the  Temple,  and  how  they  were  changed 
in  order  to  prevent  levity.  About  the  lamentation  of  the  death  of  Messiah 
ben  Joseph,  and  the  death  of  the  evil  angel.  The  tradition  of  the  two 
Messiahs,  ben  Joseph  and  ben  David,  and  the  different  explanations  of  the 
verse  Zechariah,  vii.  10,  according  to  the  believers  of  the  old  tradition  and 
the  believers  of  the  Messiahship  of  Christ.  About  the  evil  angel — how  he 
appears  in  the  beginning  and  how  he  grows  in  the  nature  of  human  beings. 
What  the  Messiah  ben  David  will  ask  of  the  Lord.  The  seven  names  of 
the  evil  angel.  The  evil  angel  is  hidden  in  man's  heart.  How  he  tempts 
scholars  more  than  anyone  else.  How  Abayi  watched  a  man  and  a  woman 
who  went  on  the  road.  What  one  shall  do  when  the  hidcousness  has 
attacked  him.  The  three  verses  of  the  Scriptures  which  clear  Israel  on  the 
judgment  day.  Who  are  meant  by  the  four  carpenters  mentioned  in 
Zechariah,  ii.  3  ?  Who  are  the  seven  shepherds  and  the  eight  anointed  men 
mentioned  in  Micah,  v.  4  ?  The  four  lads  who  held  jars  of  oil  containing  120 
lugs.  Was  it  in  all  120  lugs,  or  did  each  jar  contain  so  much  ?  Who  said  : 
Well  be  to  our  youth  which  does  not  disgrace  our  age  ?  and  who  said  vice 
versa  ?  What  Hillel  the  Elder  said  when  he  was  engaged  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  the  pouring  of  the  water.  For  what  purpose  the  fifteen  songs  of 
degrees  were  said  by  David.  What  is  the  meaning  of  "  we  belong  to  God  " 
and  "  we  raise  our  eyes  to  God  "  ? 76-85 

MiSHNAS  III.  to  VI.  How  many  times  was  the  trumpet  blown  in  the 
Temple  every  day,  and  how  many  on  the  festivals  ?  The  different  opinions 
of  the  Tanaim  about  this  point.  When  was  the  maximum  of  forty-eight 
times  blown  ?  For  what  purpose  were  the  seventy  bullocks  offered  on  the 
seven  days  of  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles?  And  for  what  purpose  was  the 
one   bullock  offered   [Numb,    xxix,    36]  ?     Three  times  in  the  year  all  the 


X  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

twenty-four  orders  of  priests  were  alike  entitled  to  share  the  pieces  of  offer- 
ings of  the  festival,  and  in  the  shewbread,  for  what  purpose  ?  Whence  do 
we  deduce  that  all  the  orders  of  priests  had  equal  shares  in  the  offerings 
that  were  said  to  be  sacrificed  on  the  festivals  ?  If  a  festival  falls  before  or 
after  a  Sabbath,  all  the  twenty-four  orders  share  alike  in  the  shewbread. 
What  is  meant  by  before  or  after  ?  About  the  order  of  Bilgah,  when  Mi- 
riam his  daughter  becomes  an  apostate,  and  what  she  said  when  the  enemy 
entered  the  sanctuary,  and  whAt  was  done  to  the  whole  order,       .        85-9* 


TRACT  SUCCAH. 


CHAPTER  I. 


REGULATIONS   CONCERNING    THE   BUILDING    OF    A    LEGAL    BOOTH    FOR 
THE    FEAST    OF    TABERNACLES,   ITS    WALLS,    AND    ROOFING. 

MISHNA:  A  booth  which  is  higher  than  twenty  ells  is  not 
valid.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  says  it  is.  One  which  is  not  ten 
Spans  high,  one  which  has  not  three  walls,  or  which  has  more 
sun  than  shade,  is  not  valid.* 

GEMARA  :  Whence  do  we  deduce  this  ?  Said  Rabha :  It  is 
written  [Lev.  xxiii.  43]  :  '*  In  order  that  your  generations  may 
know  that  I  caused  the  children  of  Israel  to  dwell  in  booths." 
Up  to  twenty  ells  a  man  knows  that  he  is  living  in  a  booth,  but 
higher  than  twenty  ells  he  does  not  know,  because  his  eyes  do 
not  frequently  perceive  the  roof.  R.  Zera  said :  From  the  fol- 
lowing passage  [Isa.  iv.  6]  :  "  And  a  tabernacle  shall  it  be  for 
a  shade  in  the  daytime  from  the  heat."  Up  to  twenty  ells  a 
man  sits  in  the  shade  of  the  roof,  but  if  it  is  higher  than  twenty 
ells  a  man  sits  in  the  shade  of  the  walls  (but  not  of  the  roof). 
Said  Abayi  to  him :  According  to  your  theory,  if  one  has  made 
a  booth  between  two  hills,  it  is  also  not  legal  (because  there  is  no 
shadow  from  the  roof  at  all)  ?  And  he  answered :  What  com- 
parison is  this?  if  the  hills  were  removed,  he  would  sit  in  the 
shadow  of  the  roof ;  but  here,  if  the  walls  would  be  taken  away, 
there  would  be  no  shade  at  all.  Rabha  said  :  From  the  follow- 
ing passage  [Lev.  xxiii.  42]  :  '*  In  booths  shall  ye  dwell  seven 
days."  The  Law  commands  that  for  seven  days  one  shall 
remove  from  his  permanent  dwelling  into  a  temporary  dwelling. 
Up  to  twenty  ells,  ordinarily  a  man  makes  a  temporary  dwell- 
ing ;  but  higher  than  this  it  is  not  usual  to  make  a  temporary 
dwelling.     Said  Abayi  to  him :    According   to   you,  if  one  has 

*  See  Vol.  III.,  p.  I,  Gemara,  which  also  belongs  to  our  Mishna. 


2  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

made  iron  walls,  and  covered  them  with  a  legal  roof,  would  it 
also  be  unlawful  for  a  booth  ?  Rabha  answered  :  I  mean  to  say 
this :  Up  to  twenty  ells,  which  is  an  ordinary  height  for  a  tem- 
porary dwelling,  even  if  one  makes  it  a  permanent  dwelling,  he 
can  fulfil  his  duty ;  but  over  twenty  ells,  which  is  the  ordinary 
height  only  of  a  permanent  dwelling,  even  if  one  has  made  it  a 
temporary  dwelling,  it  is  also  unlawful  ?  According  to  whom  is 
the  following  saying  of  R.  Joshia  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  The 
sages  and  R.  Jehudah  differ  only  when  the  walls  do  not  reach  the 
roof ;  but  if  the  walls  do  reach  the  roof,  all  agree  that  the  booth 
is  valid  though  the  walls  be  higher  than  twenty  ells  ?  It  is  in 
accordance  with  Rabha,  who  says  that  the  sages  make  it  invalid 
because  the  eye  cannot  reach  the  roof ;  but  when  the  walls  are 
attached  to  the  roof,  the  eye  is  able  to  do  so. 

According  to  whom  would  the  following  saying  of  R.  Hannan 
in  the  name  of  Rabh  be :  that  they  differ  only  about  a  booth  less 
than  four  ells  square,  but  when  it  is  four  ells  square  all  agree  that 
it  is  valid  ?  This  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Zera,  who  says :  The 
rabbis  make  it  unlawful  because  of  the  lack  of  shadow,  and  in  a 
booth  four  ells  square  there  is  a  shadow.  And  according  to 
whom  is  the  following  saying  of  R.  Hannan  b.  Rabha  in  the  name 
of  Rabha :  They  (the  sages  and  R.  Jehudah)  differ  when  the 
booth  is  only  of  a  size  to  accommodate  a  man's  head  and  greater 
part  of  body,  and  his  table ;  but  if  it  is  of  a  larger  size,  then  if  it  is 
higher  than  twenty  ells,  is  it  also  valid  ?  It  is  not,  according  to 
any  one.  An  objection  was  raised :  We  have  learned  in  a  Bo- 
raitha  :  A  booth  which  is  higher  than  twenty  ells  is  not  valid.  R. 
Jehudah,  however,  makes  it  valid,  even  if  its  height  is  forty  or 
fifty  ells ;  and  he  said :  It  happened  that  the  Queen  Helen,  in 
the  city  of  Lud,  was  sitting  in  a  booth  which  was  higher  than 
twenty  ells,  and  the  older  sages  were  entering  and  going  out  of 
it,  and  they  did  not  object.  And  the  sages  answered  him  :  This 
is  not  proof.  She  was  a  woman,  and  it  is  not  obligatory  for  a 
woman  to  sit  in  a  booth  at  all.  And  he  rejoined  :  Everybody 
knows  that  she  had  seven  male  children ;  and  besides  this,  all  her 
acts  were  only  in  accordance  with  the  will  of  the  sages. 

Now,  it  is  right  according  to  him  who  said  that  they  differ  in 
a  case  where  the  walls  of  the  booth  do  not  reach  the  roof,  because 
usually  a  queen  is  sitting  in  a  booth  whereof  the  walls  reach  not 
the  roof,  that  air  may  come  in ;  but  according  to  him  who  said 
that  even  in  case  of  a  small  booth  they  differ,  is  it  customary  that 
a  queen  should  sit  in  a  small  booth  ?    Said  Rabba  bar  R.  Adda : 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  3 

The  case  was  of  a  booth  separated  into  chambers.  But  is  it  cus- 
tomary that  a  queen  should  sit  in  a  booth  separated  into  cham- 
bers ?  Said  R.  Ashi :  Yea,  the  case  was  that  of  a  large  booth 
with  chambers,  and  the  sages  differ  about  the  chambers.  They 
hold  that  she  sat  in  a  separate  chamber,  but  her  children  were 
sitting  in  a  lawful  booth,  and  therefore  the  elders  did  not  object ; 
but  R.  Jehudah  said,  her  children  sat  with  her,  and  nevertheless 
they  did  not  object. 

R.  Samuel  bar  Itz'hak  said  :  The  Halakha  prevails  that  the 
booth  must  be  large  enough  to  accommodate  the  head,  the 
greater  part  of  the  body,  and  a  table.  Said  R.  Abha  to  him  : 
According  to  whose  opinion  is  this?  And  he  answered:  It  is 
according  to  Beth  Shammai,  and  nevertheless  one  shall  not  deviate 
from  this  law.  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  opposed  this  :  Where  do 
you  find  that  Beth  Shammai  and  Beth  Hillel  differ  about  a  small 
booth  ?  Perhaps  they  differ  about  a  large  booth,  and  the  case 
was  that  the  man  was  sitting  at  the  entrance  of  the  booth,  and 
the  table  was  in  the  house.  Beth  Shammai  prohibit  this  as  a 
precautionary  measure,  lest  he  incline  himself  toward  the  table, 
and  then  he  will  not  be  sitting  in  the  Succah  at  all,  and  Beth 
Hillel  does  not  call  for  such  a  precautionary  measure.  And  a 
support  to  this  I  can  bring  from  the  following  Boraitha :  If  one 
whose  head  and  greater  part  of  body  was  in  the  booth,  and  his 
table  was  ih  the  house,  Beth  Shammai  say  it  is  not  lawful,  and 
according  to  Beth  Hillel  it  is.  Now,  if  they  differed  about  the 
size  of  the  booth,  it  should  be  said  :  if  one  sat  in  a  booth  which 
cannot  contain  more  than  the  head  and  greater  part  of  the  body. 
And  another  Boraitha  stated  that  Rabbi  says  if  a  booth  does  not 
contain  four  ells  square  it  is  invalid  ;  but  the  sages  say,  if  it 
contains  the  space  for  the  head  and  the  greater  part  of  the  body 
it  is  valid  ?  Nay,  they  differ  in  both  cases,  and  the  Boraitha  is 
not  complete,  and  must  be  read  thus :  if  one  was  sitting  with 
his  head  and  greater  part  of  his  body  in  the  booth,  and  the  table 
was  in  the  house,  he  did  not  fulfil  his  duty,  according  to  Beth 
Shammai ;  but  Beth  Hillel  say  he  did,  and  a  booth  which  cannot 
contain  more  than  the  greater  part  of  the  body  and  the  head  is 
unlawful,  according  to  Beth  Shammai ;  but  Beth  Hillel  say  it  is. 

Who  is  the  Tana  of  the  following  teaching  of  the  rabbis :  In 
a  house  which  is  not  four  ells  square,  it  is  not  obligatory  to  have 
a  Mezuzah  (a  battlement),*  and  it  is  not  subject  to  being  defiled 

*  Deut.  xxii.  8, 


4  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

by  plagues,  and  it  is  retained  at  the  jubilee  year  in  a  fortified  town 
[Lev.  XXV.  29],  and  a  man  possessing  such  a  new  house  must  not 
be  kept  from  going  to  war,  and  an  Erub  must  not  be  made  in  it, 
and  it  is  not  counted  as  a  house  to  combine  with  the  houses  of  the 
alley,  and  an  Erub  (from  the  courts)  must  not  be  deposited  in  it, 
and  it  must  not  be  regarded  as  a  house  on  the  border  between 
two  towns,  and  brothers  and  partners  do  not  divide  it  ?  Shall  we 
assume  it  is  according  to  Rabbi,  not  the  sages  ?  Nay,  we  can  say 
that  it  is  in  accordance  even  with  the  sages.  Do  the  sages  allow 
a  dwelling  of  less  than  this  size  ?  Only  when  it  is  a  Succah  which  is 
temporary ;  but  a  house  which  is  a  permanent  dwelling  even  the 
sages  agree  must  be  at  least  four  ells  square.  Then  men  can  live 
in  it ;  but  if  less,  it  is  not  called  a  house  at  all. 

If  the  booth  was  higher  than  twenty  ells,  and  one  put  in 
pillows  and  feather-beds,  it  is  not  considered  as  made  lower 
thereby ;  even  when  he  renounces  their  use  for  any  other  pur- 
poses, because  we  ignore  his  resolve,  as  people  in  general  do  not 
do  it.  But  if  one  puts  there  straw,  and  renounces  it,  it  is  con- 
sidered as  made  lower ;  and  so  much  the  more,  loose  earth.  But 
if  one  puts  there  straw  which  he  does  not  renounce,  although  he 
does  not  purpose  to  remove  it,  and  also  sand,  which  he  does  not 
renounce — in  that  case  Jose  and  the  sages  differ  (Tract  Ahaloth, 
Chap.  XV.  6).  If  the  booth  was  higher  than  twenty  ells,  and 
from  the  roofing  hung  down  small  twigs,  then  if  they  are  so 
numerous  that  there  is  more  shadow  than  sunshine,  they  are  con- 
sidered to  make  it  lower ;  but  if  less  than  that,  they  do  not  make 
it  lower.  If  it  was  high  only  ten  spans,  and  small  twigs  hung 
down  from  the  roof,  Abayi  thought  that  if  there  was  more  sun 
than  shadow  between  the  twigs,  it  was  valid.  Said  Rabha  to 
him :  It  is  an  unendurable  dwelling,  and  nobody  would  live  in  it. 
(Therefore  it  is  not  valid.) 

If  it  was  higher  than  twenty  ells,  and  one  constructed  in  it  a 
bench  along  the  whole  middle  wall,  if  the  bench  is  as  large  as  the 
legal  size  of  a  booth  (seven  spans  and  a  trifle),  then  the  booth  is 
valid  (the  whole  booth  because  of  a  crooked  wall) ;  but  if  he  con- 
structed a  bench  along  a  side-wall,  if  from  the  edge  of  the  bench 
to  the  opposite  wall  it  is  four  ells,  it  is  not  valid  ;  but  if  less  than 
this,  it  is  valid  (because  the  bench  legalizes  two  walls,  the  third 
being  without  the  legal  limit).  If  he  constructed  a  bench  in  the 
midst  of  the  booth,  if  from  the  edge  of  the  bench  to  each  of  the 
walls  it  is  four  ells,  it  is  not  valid ;  but  if  less,  it  is  valid,  because 
of  a  crooked  wall  on  all  sides.     If,  however,  he  put  the  bench  on 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  5 

one  side,  then  if  it  is  less  than  four  ells  of  the  wall,  it  is  valid 
(because  of  a  crooked  wall  on  one  side) ;  but  if  it  is  four  ells,  it  is 
not.  If  the  booth  was  less  than  ten  spans  in  height,  and  he  dug  in 
it  a  pit  to  make  it  ten  spans  high,  if  from  the  edge  of  this  pit  to  the 
wall  is  three  spans,  it  is  invalid  ;  but  less  than  that,  it  is  valid. 
Why,  then,  in  the  case  when  it  is  twenty  ells  high,  are  less  than 
four  ells  needed  to  make  it  valid,  while  here,  when  it  is  ten  spans 
high,  less  than  three  spans  are  needed  ?  Because  there  a  wall  is 
in  existence,  and  to  make  it  invalid  one  must  have  four  ells ;  but 
in  the  case  of  ten  spans,  the  wall  is  not  considered  a  wall  at  all, 
and  to  make  it  a  wall  less  than  three  spans  are  wanted  (because 
then  it  is  Lavud,  i.e.,  considered  as  attached  to  the  ground  of  the 
pit  when  it  would  be  ten  spans  high).  (See  Sabbath,  p.  12, 
note  §.) 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  has  placed  four  poles  and  roofed 
them,  according  to  R.  Jacob,  it  is  valid  in  cases  when  the  poles 
admit  of  partition,  as  will  be  explained  further,  for  a  booth,  but 
according  to  the  sages  it  is  invalid.  Said  R.  Huna:  They  differ 
only  about  the  edge  of  the  roof.  R.  Jacob  holds  the  theory  of 
Gud  Assik  (see  Erubin,  note,  p.  6)  applies  here,  and  the  sages 
hold  that  it  does  not.  But  about  the  middle  of  the  roof  they  all 
agree  it  is  invalid.  R.  Na'hman,  however,  said  :  They  differ  even 
about  the  middle  of  the  roof.  The  schoolmen  propounded  a 
question  :  Does  R.  Na'hman  mean  to  say  they  differ  about  the 
middle,  but  about  the  sides  all  agree  that  it  is  valid  ?  Or  does 
he  mean  to  say,  they  differ  even  about  the  middle?  This  ques- 
tion is  not  decided. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  drove  into  the  ground  four  poles 
and  roofed  them,  R.  Jacob  said,  it  should  be  seen  whether  each 
of  the  poles  is  so  thick  that  if  it  would  be  divided  it  would  reach 
a  span  on  each  side  (see  illustration  of  enclosures,  Erubin,  p.  18), 
then  they  must  be  considered  as  enclosures  and  the  booth  is 
valid  ;  but  if  they  have  not  such  a  thickness,  it  is  not  valid.  And 
this  is  according  to  his  theory  elsewhere,  that  the  enclosures  of 
a  booth  must  be  not  less  than  a  span  at  each  side.  But  the 
sages  said,  the  booth  is  not  valid  unless  there  are  two  walls  as 
usually ;    and  the  third  wall  is  sufficient,  even  if  it  is  one  span. 

^' If  less  than  ten  spans''  Whence  is  this  deduced?  It  was 
taught :  Rabh  and  Mar  Hanina,  R.  Johanan  and  R,  Habiba,  taught 
[in  the  whole  section  of  Moed,  whenever  these  names  are  men- 
tioned, they  put  R.  Jonathan  in  the  place  of  R.  Johanan],  the 
ark  was  nine  spans,  and  the  cover  to  it  one  span,  together  it  is 


6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

ten.  As  it  is  written  [Ex.  xxv.  22]  :  "  And  I  will  meet  with  thee 
there,  and  I  will  speak  with  thee  from  above  the  cover."  And 
we  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha :  R.  Jose  said  that  the 
Shekhina  never  descended,  and  Moses  and  Elijah  never  ascended 
the  heaven.  As  it  is  written  [Psalms,  cxv.  16]  :  "  The  heavens 
are  the  heavens  of  the  Lord,  but  the  earth  hath  he  given  to  the 
children  of  man  "  ;  but  is  it  not  written  [Ex.  xix.  20]  :  '^  And  the 
Lord  came  down  upon  Mount  Sinai  "  ?  And  the  answer  is,  that 
He  did  not  come  down  lower  than  ten  spans  ^  from  the  ground. 
(Now,  when  He  says,  ''  I  will  speak  to  thee  from  above  the 
cover,"  that  means  ten  spans  higher.  From  this  we  see  that  ten 
spans  are  counted  as  separate  premises ;  hence  ten  spans  is  the 
minimum  height  of  a  dwelling.) 

It  is  true,  the  ark  is  nine  spans,  because  it  is  written  [Ex.  xxv. 
10]  :  '^  And  they  shall  make  an  ark  of  shittim  wood  :  two  ells  and 
a  half  shall  be  its  length,  and  one  ell  and  a  half  its  breadth,  and 
an  ell  and  a  half  its  height  "  (and  as  an  ell  is  six  spans,  the  height 
of  one  and  a  half  is  nine  spans).  But  where  do  we  find  that  the 
cover  is  one  span  ?  From  the  teaching  of  R.  Hanina  as  follows : 
Of  all  the  utensils  that  Moses  made,  the  Law  had  prescribed 
before  the  length,  the  breadth,  and  the  height.  In  case  of  the 
cover,  however,  the  length  and  the  breadth  are  written,  but  not  the 
height  ;  and  we  must  go  and  draw  this  lesson  from  the  meanest 
of  the  utensils,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  25]  :  "  And  thou  shalt 
make  unto  it  a  rim  of  a  hand's  breadth  round  about."  As  the 
height  of  the  rim  is  a  span,  we  infer  that  the  height  of  the  cover 
is  also  a  span.  But  why  from  the  meanest  of  the  utensils — why 
not  from  the  utensils  themselves  ?  Because  there  is  a  rule,  when 
much  is  grasped  at,  nothing  is  grasped  ;  but  when  little  is  grasped, 
it  is  retained.  R.  Huna  said  :  We  infer  it  from  this  passage  [Lev. 
xvi.  14]  :  "  On  the  face  of  the  cover,  eastward  "  ;  if  less  than  a 
span,  it  would  not  be  called  face.  But  where  do  we  find  that  the 
distance  between  the  roof  and  ground  should  be  ten  spans?  Per- 
haps the  roof  itself  should  be  included  ?  Therefore  we  say  this 
theory  they  draw  from  the  Temple  ;  as  it  is  written  [in  I  Kings, 
vi.  2]  :  "  And  the  house  which  King  Solomon  built  unto  the  Lord 
was  sixty  ells  in  length,  and  twenty  in  breadth,  and  thirty  ells  in 
height  "  ;  and  [ibid.,  ibid.  26]  :  ''  The  height  of  the  one  cherub 
was  ten  cubits,  and  so  was  the  other  "  ;  and  a  Boraitha  states,  as 


*  See  the  article,  "What  is  the  Talmud?"  in  our  pamphlet,  "  The  Pentateuch, 
its  Languages  and  Characters,"  for  an  explanation  of  this  saying. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  7 

we  have  found  in  the  Temple,  that  the  cherubim  were  a  third  of 
the  height  of  the  house,  so  also  in  the  tabernacle  in  the  desert 
they  were  one-third.  Now,  the  height  of  the  tabernacle  was  ten 
ells,  as  it  is  written  [Ex.  xxvi.  16]  :  "Ten  ells  shall  be  the  length 
of  each  board."  How  many  spans  are  in  ten  ells?  Sixty.  A 
third  thereof  is  twenty  :  take  off  ten,  which  was  the  height  of  the 
ark  with  the  cover,  ten  is  left.  And  it  is  written  [ibid.  xxv.  20]  : 
"  And  the  cherubim  shall  spread  forth  their  wings  on  high,  over- 
shadowing the  cover."  Hence  we  see  that  the  Torah  calls  ''  over- 
shadowing "  when  above  ten  spans.  Therefore  we  infer  that  the 
roofing  overshadowing  the  booth  must  be  above  the  ten  spans. 

This  would  be  right  according  to  R.  Meir,  who  said  that  all 
the  ells  mentioned  in  the  Torah  measure  six  spans  ;  but  accord- 
ing to  R.  Jehudah,  who  says  that  the  ells  of  a  building  meas- 
ured six  spans,  but  other  ells  only  five  spans,  what  can  be  said  ? 
If  so,  the  ark  with  its  cover  would  be  only  eight  and  a  half :  then 
remain  for  the  cherubim  eleven  and  a  half.  Shall  we  say  that 
the  booth  must  be  high  at  least  eleven  and  a  half?  According 
to  R.  Jehudah  the  size  of  a  booth  is  (Sinaic).  (As  it  is  said  in 
Tract  Erubin,  p.  5.) 

"  One  which  has  not  three  walls.''  The  rabbis  taught :  Two 
walls  must  be  as  usually,  but  the  third  one  may  be  even  one 
span.  R.  Simeon,  however,  said :  Three  must  be  as  usually,  and 
the  fourth  one  may  be  a  span.  In  what  point  do  they  differ? 
The  rabbis  hold,  the  bases  are  the  Massorah  {i.e.,  if  we  came  to 
draw  something  from  Scripture  the  basis  must  be  the  Massorah) 
and  as  [in  Lev.  xxiii.]  "  in  booths  "  is  mentioned  three  times,  and 
the  Hebrew  term  for  this  is  nDD2^  riDD2>  HinDD  i  "^^  that  is, 
two  of  them  are  written  in  the  singular  and  one  in  plural,  and 
from  each  term  in  the  singular  we  infer  the  necessity  of  one  wall, 
and  from  the  term  in  the  plural  two,  which  make  four :  take  off 
one  expression  intended  as  a  commandment  to  make  booths  in 
general,  we  infer  from  the  two  which  are  superfluous  the  ne- 
cessity of  three  walls ;  that  is,  two  as  usually,  and  the  third  one 
the  tradition  reduces  to  a  span  in  case  it  is  valid.  But  according 
to  R.  Simeon  the  basis  must  be  the  biblical  words  as  they  read; 
and  as  all  three  read  in  the  plural,  we  infer  the  necessity  of  six 
walls :  take  off  one  term  as  a  general  commandment,  we  have 
left  four ;  hence  three  must  be  as  usually,  and  the  fourth  tradi- 
tion reduces  to  one  span.     And  if  you  wish,  we  will  say :  that  all 

*In  our  Scripture  we  do  not  find  so,  but  sec  the  Massorah. 


8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

agree  that  the  basis  must  be  the  Massorah,  but  the  point 
whereon  they  differ  is.  one  holds  that  the  first  verse,  where  the 
commandment  is  written,  we  also  take  into  consideration  to  infer 
the  necessity  of  a  wall — consequently  it  is  four  walls ;  and  one 
holds  that  the  first  must  not  be  taken  into  consideration,  and  it  is 
only  three.  R.  Mathua  said  :  R.  Simeon  infers  his  theory  from 
the  following  passage  [Isa.  iv.  6]  :  ''  And  a  tabernacle  shall  it  be 
for  a  shadow  in  the  daytime  from  the  heat,  and  for  a  refuge, 
for  a  covert  from  tempest  and  from  rain  "  (i.e.,  if  it  is  not  three 
walls,  it  cannot  be  a  protection  from  wind,  etc.). 

Where  shall  be  placed  the  wall  which  is  one  span  wide  ? 
Said  Rabh  :  One  may  place  it  where  one  wall  ends,  no  matter 
which ;  it  was  taught  that  the  same  was  said  by  Samuel  in  the 
name  of  Levi,  and  so  also  it  was  decided  in  the  college.  R. 
Simon,  and  according  to  others  R.  Joshuah  b.  Levi,  said  :  The 
wall  which  is  a  span  shall  be  wide  as  a  span  made  by  the  palm 
when  extended,  and  one  shall  place  it  at  a  distance  of  less  than 
three  spans  from  another  wall,  so  that  the  theory  of  Lavud 
should  apply. 

R.  Jehudah  said :  A  booth  that  was  made  as  an  entry  is  valid 
(the  two  walls  need  not  be  adjacent,  but  may  be  opposite,  while 
the  wall  of  one  span  can  be  placed  at  any  side  one  likes).  R. 
Simeon,  and  according  to  others  R.  Joshuah  b.  Levi,  said :  Such 
a  booth  is  lawful  only  when  one  places  an  enclosure  four  spans 
and  a  trifle  wide,  and  at  a  distance  of  less  than  three  spans  from 
the  wall,  so  that  the  theory  of  Lavud  can  apply  :  then  it  will  be 
counted  together  seven  spans  and  a  trifle,  which  is  the  lawful 
width  for  a  booth.  Why  is  it  said  there  that  it  is  sufificient 
when  it  is  wide  as  an  extended  span,  and  here  that  an  enclosure 
of  four  spans  is  needed  ?  There,  where  there  were  two  walls, 
as  usually,  a  span  is  enough ;  but  here,  in  which  case  they  are  op- 
posite, an  enclosure  of  at  least  four  spans  is  required.  Said  Rabha : 
And  to  it  must  be  added  an  appearance  of  a  door  (on  the  other 
side).  R.  Ashi  found  R.  Kahna,  who  made  a  third  wall  extended 
a  span  wide,  and  on  the  other  side  an  appearance  of  a  door ;  and 
he  said  to  him  :  Does  not  the  Master  hold  with  Rabha,  who 
said  that  an  appearance  of  a  door  is  sufificient  for  a  third  wall  ? 
And  he  answered  :  I  hold  with  the  saying  of  Rabha,  as  it  is  inter- 
preted above,  that  an  appearance  of  a  door  must  be  added  too. 

Again :  ''  Two  walls  as  usually ^  etc.  Said  Rabha :  This 
booth  is  considered  private  ground  in  reference  to  a  Sabbath 
falling  in  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  so  that  things  may  be  carried 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  9 

from  another  private  ground  into  this  booth,  and  vice  versa  (al- 
though for  a  legal  private  ground  three  walls  are  needed),  because 
as  the  two  walls  are  considered  a  Succah,  it  is  considered  also 
private  ground  for  this  Sabbath.  Rabha  said  again  :  If  one  has 
made  a  roof  above  an  entry  which  has  a  side-beam,  it  is  valid  for 
a  booth.*  And  the  same  said  again  :  If  one  has  roofed  the  en- 
closure of  a  well  (see  illustration  in  Erubin,  p.  18),  it  may  be  used 
as  a  booth. 

"  If  there  is  more  sun  than  shadow,  it  is  7iot  valid!'  The  rabbis 
taught :  If  there  is  more  sunshine  than  shadow  from  the  roof, 
but  not  from  the  walls.  R.  Joshiah,  however,  said :  Even  if  it  is 
more  sunshine  from  the  walls,  it  is  also  invalid.  Said  R.  Yemar 
bar  Shlomiah  in  the  name  of  Abayi :  What  is  the  reason  of  R. 
Joshiah's  decree?  Because  it  is  written  [Ex.  xl.  3]  :  ''  Thou  shalt 
cover  the  ark  with  a  vail  "  ;  now  the  vail  was  a  partition,  and  the 
Torah  says :  ''  Thou  shalt  cover  with  it  ";  we  may  infer  from  this, 
the  partition  shall  be  equal  in  law  to  the  cover  (or  roof).  And 
what  will  the  rabbis  say  to  the  query  of  R.  Joshiah?  The  rabbis 
explained  the  expression,  *' Thou  shalt  cover  it,"  that  it  means  he 
shall  fold  the  vail  a  little  towards  the  ark,  so  that  it  shall  seem  as 
a  cover. 

Abayi  said  :  Rabbi,  R.  Joshiah,  R.  Jehudah,  R.  Simeon,  and 
Rabban  Gamaliel,  the  school  of  Shammai,  R.  Eliezer,  and  the 
anonymous  teachers  all  hold  that  a  booth  must  be  considered  not 
as  a  temporary  but  as  a  permanent  dwelling.  (Rashi  explains 
that  it  means  that  it  should  be  possible  to  turn  it  into  a  perma- 
nent dwelling.)  Rabbi,  as  we  have  learned  above,  that  a  Succah 
that  was  not  four  ells  square  is  invalid ;  R.  Joshiah,  from  the 
statement  just  mentioned  ;  R.  Jehudah,  as  he  declares  valid 
a  booth  which  is  higher  than  twenty  ells ;  R.  Simeon,  as  he 
requires  four  walls  (three  as  usually,  and  one,  one  span  wide) ; 
Rabban  Gamaliel,  as  he  declares  invalid  (farther  on)  a  booth  con- 
structed on  board  a  vessel  or  on  a  wagon  ;  Beth  Shammai,  as  they 
declare  in  a  Mishna,  farther  on,  that  it  is  invalid  if  it  can  contain 
a  man's  head  and  greater  part  of  body,  while  his  table  is  in  a 
house ;  R.  Eliezer,  as  he  declared  a  Succah  constructed  in  the 
shape  of  a  pyramid  is  invalid  ;  and  the  anonymous  teachers,  who 
declare  invalid  a  circular  Succah. 

R.  Johanan  said  :  A  booth  which  is  made  like  a  lime-kiln  {i.e., 
round),  if   its   circumference    is    large   enough   that    twenty-four 

*  The  law  of  an  entry  with  a  side-beam  is  explained  in  Tract  Erubin,  Chap.  I. 


lo  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

persons  may  sit  at  the  walls,  it  is  valid  ;  but  if  not,  it  is  invalid.^ 
And  this  teaching  is  according  to  Rabbi,  who  said  that  a  booth 
which  is  not  four  ells  square  is  not  considered  a  booth  at  all. 

R.  Levi  in  the  name  of  R.  Meir  said  :  Of  two  booths  of  pot- 
ters which  are  one  within  the  other,  the  innermost  is  not  valid 
for  a  legal  booth,  and  is  liable  to  have  a  Mezuzah,  but  the  outer- 
most may  be  used  as  a  legal  booth,  and  needs  not  a  Mezuzah. 
Why  so  ?  Let  the  outer  one  be  considered  as  a  passage  to  the 
innermost,  and  a  passage  is  not  exempt  from  a  Mezuzah  ?  Be- 
cause of  both  booths  the  outer  one  is  only  temporary,  and  it  is 
exempt  from  a  Mezuzah. 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  booths  of  strangers,  made  only  for 
the  summer,  booths  for  women  (to  make  the  toilet),  booths  made 
for  animals,  or  booths  made  by  Samaritans  for  the  feast,  and 
everything  whatever  called  a  booth  is  valid  as  a  religious  taber- 
nacle, provided  that  it  is  roofed  according  to  the  Law.  What  is 
meant,  ''  according  to  the  Law "  ?  Said  R.  Hisda :  If  it  was 
roofed  for  this  end,  what  is  meant  by  the  saying :  **  Anything 
whatever  that  is  called  a  booth  is  valid  "  ?  To  include  the  booths 
of  shepherds,  of  those  who  watch  dried  figs,  watchmen  outside 
of  the  towns,  and  of  those  who  watch  fruit  (all  these  are  booths 
if  they  are  roofed  according  to  the  Law,  and  are  valid  for  relig- 
ious purposes). 

MISHNA:  An  old  Succah,  Beth  Shammai  hold,  is  not  valid, 
but  Beth  Hillel  hold  it  is  vaHd.  What  is  called  an  old  Succah? 
One  which  was  constructed  thirty  days  before  the  festival ;  but 
if  it  has  been  constructed  on  purpose  for  the  festival,  even 
though  it  be  one  year  old,  it  is  valid. 

GEMARA :  What  is  the  reason  of  Beth  Shammai's  opinion? 
It  is  written  [Lev.  xxiii.  34]  :  "  The  feast  of  the  booths  shall  be 
seven  days  unto  the  Lord."  From  this  we  infer  that  the  booths 
must  be  made  for  the  purpose  of  the  feast.  And  what  would 
Beth  Hillel  say  to  this  passage?  They  infer  from  it  another 
theory  in  accordance  with  R.  Shesheth,  who  says  in  the  name  of 
R.  Aqiba :  Whence  do  we  know  that  the  wood  that  was  used  for 
the  booths,  must  not  be  used  for  another  purpose  all  the  seven 
days?  Because  it  is  written  :  ''The  feast  of  the  booths  shall  be 
seven  days  unto  the  Lord."     And  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha : 


*  The  Gemara  interprets  this  law  by  a  geometric  calculation  how  much  space  a 
person  needs,  and  the  relation  of  a  circle  and  a  square,  with  illustrations,  which  do 
not  belong  here,  and  therefore  we  omit. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  ii 

R.  Jehudah  b.  Bethyra  said  :  In  the  same  manner  that  the  name 
of  the  Lord  rests  on  the  feast-offering  (and  this  prohibits  the 
eating  of  the  feast-offering  till  the  pieces  are  offered  on  the  altar), 
so  does  the  name  of  the  Lord  rest  on  the  booth,  to  prohibit  the 
use  of  the  material  of  which  it  is  constructed  during  the  seven 
days.  But  did  not  Beth  Shammai  also  infer  this  prohibition  from 
the  same  passage  ?  Yea,  we  must  therefore  say  that  the  reason 
of  Beth  Shammai  is  another  passage  [Deut.  xvi.  13] :  ''A  feast  of 
tabernacle  .  .  .  seven  days."  Infer  from  this  that  the  booth 
must  be  made  for  this  purpose.  And  what  do  Beth  Hillel  infer 
from  the  above  passage  ?  They  infer  from  it  that  a  Succah  may 
be  made  during  the  intermediate  days  also,  while  Beth  Sham- 
mai do  not  allow  it. 

MISHNA :  If  one  constructs  his  Succah  under  a  tree,  it  is 
the  same  as  if  he  made  it  in  his  house  (under  the  roof).  Should 
he  construct  one  Succah  above  another,  the  upper  one  is  valid, 
but  the  lower  one  is  not.  R.  Jehudah  says :  Should  the  upper 
one  not  be  inhabited,  the  lower  one  is  valid. 

GEMARA :  Rabha  said :  The  Mishna  refers  only  to  a  tree 
under  which  there  is  more  shadow  than  sunshine ;  but  if  the  sun- 
shine is  more  than  the  shadow,  it  is  valid.  And  I  infer  this,  because 
the  Mishna  teaches  that  a  booth  which  was  made  under  a  tree  is 
as  if  made  in  a  house,  why  does  it  express  it  thus  ?  Let  it  say,  it 
is  invalid  ?  We  must  therefore  assume  that  it  means :  As  in  a 
roofed  house  there  is  more  shadow  than  sunshine,  so  is  it  also 
under  a  tree,  under  which  the  same  is  the  case.  But  if  there  is 
more  sunshine  than  shadow,  what  is  the  use,  since  the  branches 
of  the  tree,  which  are  invalid,  will  combine  with  the  roofing  of 
the  booth  to  shut  out  the  sunshine,  and  thus  make  the  Succah 
invalid?  Said  R.  Papa:  The  case  is  when  one  has  cut  off  the 
branches.  If  they  have  been  cut  off,  is  it  not  self-evident  that 
the  booth  is  valid?  One  might  say,  we  shall  take  a  precau- 
tionary measure  (lest  any  make  it  under  a  tree  which  has  its 
branches)  and  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  such  precautionary 
measures  are  not  to  be  taken. 

'' One  Succah  above  another,''  ^tc.  The  rabbis  taught:  It  is 
written  [Lev.  xxiii.  22]  :  "  Ye  shall  sit  in  booths."  We  may 
infer,  in  booths,  but  not  in  a  booth  which  is  under  a  booth,  or 
under  a  tree,  or  in  a  house.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  written  in  the 
"  booths  "  in  the  plural  (that  can  mean,  in  this  and  in  that)  ?  Said 
R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak :  It  reads  plural,  but  it  is  written  in  the 
singular. 


12  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

What  distance  must  be  between  the  upper  and  the  lower 
Succah,  that  the  second  should  be  invalid  ?  Said  R.  Huna  :  One 
span,  as  we  find  this  measure  in  the  law  of  defilement  (Ahaloth, 
Chap.  in.  7) :  R.  Hisda  and  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  both  said  :  Four 
spans.  The  reason  is,  that  we  do  not  find  any  distance  considered 
to  be  of  any  significance  if  it  is  less  than  four  spans.  Samuel, 
however,  said  :  Ten ;  and  his  reason  is,  that  as  to  make  it  valid  it 
must  be  no  less  than  ten  spans,  so  as  make  it  invalid  there 
must  be  ten  spans.  When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine,  he  said 
that  in  the  west  they  so  interpret :  If  the  roof  of  the  lower  one 
could  not  bear  the  pillows  and  feather-beds  of  the  upper  one, 
then  the  lower  is  valid.  From  this  we  may  infer  that  the  first 
Tana  holds  that,  although  the  lower  one  cannot  bear  the  pillows 
in  the  upper  one,  it  is  nevertheless  invalid  ?  We  may  say  that 
the  difference  between  the  first  Tana  and  the  sages  is  in  a  case  in 
which  the  roof  of  the  lower  one  could  bear  it,  but  not  easily 
(according  to  him  it  is  invalid,  according  to  them  it  is  valid). 

MISHNA :  If  a  cloth  be  spread  over  the  (roof  of  the  Succah 
as  a  screen)  against  the  sun,  or  below  (the  roof,  inside)  to  catch 
the  falling  leaves,  or  if  one  spread  a  cloth  over  a  (four-post) 
bed-tester,  the  Succah  is  not  valid,  but  one  may  spread  a  cloth 
over  two  bed-posts. 

GEMARA :  Said  R.  Hisda :  The  case  is  if  one  spread  a  cloth 
to  catch  leaves ;  but  if  he  did  it  only  for  ornament,  it  is  allowed. 
Is  not  this  self-evident  ?  Did  not  the  Mishna  say  plainly  "  to 
catch  leaves  "  ?  One  might  say  the  same  is  the  case  when  it  is  an 
ornament  also,  but  the  Mishna  mentioned  a  thing,  it  is  usually  so 
done ;  he  comes  to  teach  it  is  not  so.  It  was  taught :  That  such 
ornaments  do  not  make  it  lower  (if  it  was  more  than  twenty  ells 
high,  it  is  not  lowered  thereby,  or  if  it  was  ten  spans  they  do  not 
make  it  invalid).  Said  R.  Ashi :  But  if  the  cloth  was  hung 
before  a  side-wall,  it  makes  it  smaller.  It  happened  once  that 
the  shirt  of  Menymin,  the  servant  of  R.  Ashi,  was  soaked  in  water, 
and  he  spread  it  on  the  roof  of  the  booth  to  dry.  Said  R.  Ashi 
to  him  :  Take  it  off,  for  one  might  say,  we  cover  the  roof  with  a 
thing  which  is  subject  to  defilement.  But  everybody  will  see 
that  it  is  wet  ?  I  mean  to  say,  that  when  it  will  be  dry,  you 
shall  take  it  off. 

It  was  taught :  If  the  ornaments  of  the  Succah  are  four  spans 
under  the  roof,  R.  Na'hman  said  the  Succah  is  valid,  but  R.  Hisda 
and  Rabha  bar  R.  Huna  both  say  it  is  invalid.  But  sages  were 
once  the  guests  of  the  exilarch,  and   R.  Na'hman  made  them 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  13 

sleep  in  a  booth  where  the  ornaments  were  four  spans  beneath 
the  roof ;  and  they  kept  silent,  and  said  nothing.  Then  he  asked 
them :  Did  the  Masters  retract  their  decision  ?  And  they  an- 
swered :  We  are  delegates  for  a  religious  purpose,  and  therefore 
we  are  free  from  the  duty  of  a  Succah. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said  :  One  may  sleep  in  a 
nuptial  bed,  because  its  canopy  is  not  considered  as  a  roof  (being 
slanting)  even  when  it  is  ten  spans  high.  An  objection  was 
raised :  We  have  learned,  who  sleeps  under  a  canopy  in  a  booth 
does  not  fulfil  his  duty  ?  There  is  the  case  when  the  canopy  is 
not  of  a  nuptial  bed,  but  different,  like  a  roof.  Rabha  bar  R. 
Huna  lectured  :  One  may  sleep  under  a  canopy,  although  it  is 
like  the  roof,  and  high  ten  spans ;  and  it  is  according  to  R. 
Jehudah,  who  s?ud  that  a  temporary  tent  cannot  make  a  perma- 
nent one  be  ignored,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Mishna.  R.  Jehudah 
said :  Our  custom  was  to  sleep  in  the  booth  under  the  bed  in 
the  presence  of  the  elders.  But  let  him  say :  The  Halakha  pre- 
vails according  to  R.  Jehudah?  If  he  would  say  so,  one  might 
say  it  is  only  the  case  with  a  bed  because  it  is  made  to  be 
slept  on,  but  not  underneath  it  (and  therefore  cannot  make  the 
permanent  tent  ignored) ;  but  in  the  case  of  a  bed  with  a  canopy, 
which  was  made  for  sleeping  in,  it  may  be  thought  different. 
Therefore  he  teaches  us  there  is  no  difference. 

MISHNA :  If  one  has  trained  a  vine,  or  gourd,  or  ivy  over 
the  booth,  and  covered  it,  it  is  not  valid  ;  but  should  the  covering 
be  the  greater  part  of  the  roof  (and  they  the  smaller  part),  or  if 
they  had  been  cut  off,  it  is  valid.  This  is  the  rule :  Everything 
subject  to  defilement,  and  not  growing  from  the  ground,  must 
not  be  used  as  a  roof  to  the  booth ;  but  everything  not  subject  to 
defilement,  and  growing  from  the  ground,  may  be  used. 

GEMARA  :  R.  Joseph  was  sitting  in  the  presence  of  R.  Huna, 
and  said  :  To  the  Mishna  which  says,  if  they  are  cut  off,  the  Succah 
is  valid.  Said  Rabh :  They  (the  remainder  of  the  roof)  must 
nevertheless  be  shaken  (after  having  been  cut  off).  Said  R.  Huna 
to  him  :  This  said  Samuel.  R.  Joseph  turned  away  his  face  from 
him  and  said  :  Did  I  say  to  you  Samuel  did  not  say  it  ?  I  told 
you  Rabh  said,  and  Samuel  may  have  said  it  also.  Rejoined 
R.  Huna :  But  I  tell  you  that  only  Samuel  said  it,  and  not  Rabh, 
because,  according  to  the  latter,  it  is  valid  without  shaking,  as 
it  happened  once  that  R.  Amram  the  Pious  made  fringes  [Num. 
XV.  38]  on  the  garment  of  his  wife,  but  he  did  not  cut  asunder 
the  heads  of  the  thread ;  and  later,  when  he  came  to  ask  about 


14  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

it,  R.  Hiya  b.  Ashi  said  to  him :  So  said  Rabh :  The  cutting 
asunder  of  the  thread,  this  makes  the  fringes  lawful.  From 
this  we  see  that  according  to  Rabh  the  cutting  off  makes  it 
valid,  though  nothing  but  this  was  done.  And  the  same  is  the 
case  here  also.  Cutting  off  makes  valid.  Shall  we  assume  that 
the  point  of  difference  between  the  Tanaim  of  the  following 
Boraitha  is  the  same  as  that  of  Rabh  and  Samuel  ?  Namely,  we 
have  learned  in  an  addition  to  the  Mishna :  If  a  myrtle  bough  has 
more  berries  than  leaves,  it  is  invalid  till  the  latter  are  made  fewer ; 
but  it  is  not  allowed  to  do  so  on  a  festival  (Succah,  Chap.  III.).  If, 
however,  one  transgressed,  and  cut  off  the  berries  on  a  festival, 
the  myrtle  bough  is  invalid  according  to  R.  Simeon  b.  R.  Jehozo- 
dok,  but  is  vaHd  according  to  the  sages.  Now,  the  schoolmen 
thought  the  point  on  which  R.  Simeon  and  the  sages  differ  is 
whether  the  cutting  is  a  final  preparation,  for  they  thought  all 
agree  that  the  Lulab  should  be  tied  together  n  the  beginning 
with  the  other  branches,  drawing  a  lesson  from  the  Succah,  about 
which  it  is  said:  "Ye  shall  make,''  i.e.,  you  shall  commence  to 
make,  but  not  use  what  is  made  already.  And  R.  Simeon  says 
it  is  invalid,  because  he  does  not  regard  the  cutting  as  a  final 
preparation,  and  the  Lulab,  being  tied  with  an  invahd  myrtle,  is 
invalid ;  but  the  sages  hold  the  cutting  is  a  final  preparation,  and 
therefore  the  Lulab  is  vaHd.  Hence  the  point  whereon  they 
differ  is  the  same  as  that  whereon  Rabh  and  Samuel  differ: 
whether  the  cutting  off  is  a  final  preparation  (and  then  shaking 
is  not  needed)  or  not.  Nay,  all  agree  that  the  cutting  off  is  not 
considered  a  final  preparation,  but  R.  Simeon  and  the  sages  differ 
whether  the  Lulab  has  to  be  tied  together  at  all,  or  not ;  R.  Simeon 
maintains  that  it  must,  and  the  sages  say,  it  must  not ;  as  we 
find  in  a  Boraitha  that  the  sages  make  no  difference  whether  it 
was  tied  or  not,  and  only  R.  Jehudah  maintained  that  if  untied 
it  is  invalid.  But  according  to  whom  would  be  the  following 
teaching :  There  is  a  merit  in  tying  the  Lulab ;  it  is,  however, 
vaHd  if  it  is  untied  ?  This  is  in  accordance  with  the  rabbis,  and 
the  merit  is  because  it  is  nicer  when  tied,  as  it  is  explained  else- 
where that  the  word  [Ex.  xv.  2]  in") 3^1  means,  "beautify  your 
religious  performances  for  the  Lord's  Lake," 

"  This  is  the  rule :  everything  subject  to  defilement^'*  etc. 
Whence  is  all  this  deduced  ?  Said  Resh  Lakish :  It  is  written 
[Gen.  ii.  6]  :  "  But  there  went  up  a  mist  from  the  earth."  As 
a  mist  is  not  subject  to  defilement,  and  ascends  from  the  earth, 
so  also  must  the  Succah  be  a  thing  not  -subject  to  defilement, 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  15 

and  growing  from  the  earth.  This  would  be  right  according  to 
those  who  said  that  the  booths  in  the  desert  were  of  clouds  of 
glory ;  but  according  to  those  who  say  that  they  were  ordinary 
booths,  what  can  be  said  ?  Namely,  as  we  learn  in  the  following 
Boraitha :  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxxiii.  43]  :  ''  I  caused  the  children 
of  Israel  to  dwell  in  booths "  :  these  were  clouds  of  glory,  R. 
Eliezer  said.  But  R.  Aqiba  said  :  They  were  ordinary  booths. 
Said  R.  Ashi :  It  is  written  [Deut.  xxi.  13]  :  "  Of  thy  threshing- 
floor  and  wine-press."  0/thy  threshing-floor,  but  not  the  thresh- 
ing-floor itself ;  from  thy  wine-press,  but  not  the  wine-press  itself. 
R.  Hisda  said:  From  the  following  passage  [Nehem.  viii.  15]: 
"  Go  forth  unto  the  mountain  and  fetch  olive  leaves,  and  oleaster 
leaves,  and  myrtle  leaves,  and  palm  leaves,  and  leaves  of  the 
three-leaved  myrtle,  to  make  booths,  as  it  is  written."  Are  not 
the  leaves  of  the  myrtle  and  those  of  the  three-leaved  myrtle  the 
same?  Said  R.  Hisda:  The  myrtle  leaves  for  the  Succah,  and 
the  three-leaved  myrtle  for  a  Lulab. 

MISHNA :  Bundles  of  straw,  of  wood,  and  of  twigs  must  not 
be  used  to  cover  the  Succah ;  all  of  these  are  become  valid,  how- 
ever, if  the  bundles  are  loosed.  As  side-walls,  however,  all  of 
these  may  be  used. 

GEMARA :  R.  Jacob  said :  I  have  heard  from  R.  Johanan 
two  things  which  he  explained  to  me,  namely:  the  above  Mishna, 
and  the  Mishna  farther  on,  "  Should  one  hollow  out  a  space  in  a 
stack  (of  sheaves)  to  use  it  as  a  Succah,  it  is  not  considered  such." 
Of  one  of  them  he  says  the  reason  is  that  it  is  only  a  precau- 
tionary measure,  lest  one  make  his  storehouse  for  a  Succah, 
which  biblically  is  allowed ;  and  of  the  other  he  said  the  reason 
is,  because  it  is  written  :  "  Ye  shall  make,"  from  which  we  infer, 
it  must  not  be  ready-made  (and  this  is  biblical).  But  I  don't 
know  for  which  Mishna  the  reasons  are  respectively  given.  Said 
R.  Jeremiah  :  Let  us  see.  R.  Hiya  bar  Abba  said  in  the  name 
of  R.  Johanan :  Why  is  it  prohibited  to  cover  with  bundles  of 
straw,  wood,  or  twigs?  Because  it  may  happen  a  man  comes 
from  the  field  in  the  evening  with  his  bundle  on  the  shoulder 
and  puts  it  on  the  roof  for  the  purpose  of  drying,  and  later  he 
resolves  to  leave  it  there  as  a  roof  to  the  booth,  and  it  is  said, 
"  Ye  shall  make  it,"  but  not  have  ready-made.  Now,  as  we 
see  that  the  reason  for  this  is  biblical,  that  for  our  Mishna  must 
be  a  precautionary  measure.  Then  why  was  R.  Jacob  doubt- 
ful ?  Because  he  had  not  heard  the  saying  of  R.  Hiya  in  R. 
Johanan's  name.     Said  R.  Ashi :  What  is  the  difference  ?     Does, 


i6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

then,  the  law,  *'  shall  make,"  apply  only  to  our  Mishna,  and  not 
to  the  other  Mishna  farther  on,  or  does  the  precautionary 
measure  apply  only  to  the  other  Mishna,  and  not  to  ours  ?  Both 
are  alike  (and  why,  then,  does  he  make  a  difference  between 
them  ?).  R.  Johanan  can  say  that  his  teaching  is  correct,  be- 
cause our  Mishna  states,  they  must  not  cover  it  ;  that  means,  to 
commence  it,  and  it  is  a  precautionary  measure,  but  if  he  has 
covered,  it  is  valid.  But  there  it  is  said.  It  is  not  a  Succah,  even 
after  it  has  been  covered  ;  it  is  even  biblically  not  a  Succah. 

Said  Rabha  bar  bar  Hana  :  I  have  heard  in  the  name  of 
R.  Johanan  three  things  :  If  he  has  roofed  it  with  bundles  of 
flax  it  is  invalid,  but  if  with  unsoaked  flax,  it  is  valid  ;  and  as 
for  Hushne  [meaning  uncertain]  flax,  I  am  in  doubt  about  it. 
Rabha  bar  bar  Hana  added  to  this  :  What  he  meant  by  Hushne 
flax,  I  don't  understand.  Does  he  mean,  flax  soaked  and 
dried,  but  not  brushed  ;  or  brushed  already,  but  not  made  into 
bundles? 

R.  Hanan  bar  Abba  said :  With  thorns  and  weeds  a  Succah 
may  be  covered.  Abayi,  however,  said,  if  they  have  no  leaves, 
one  may ;  but  if  they  have  leaves,  one  must  not.  Why  so  ? 
Because,  when  the  leaves  fall  down,  this  will  trouble  him,  and  he 
will  leave  the  booth  and  go  out.  R.  Gidl  said  in  the  name  of 
Rabh :  The  roots  of  a  tree  may  be  used  to  cover  with,  although 
they  are  intertwined,  because  a  bundle  made  by  nature  is  not 
called  a  bundle.  And  even  if  he  tied  together  the  extremities, 
he  may  nevertheless  use  them,  because  as  at  the  base  they  inter- 
twine naturally,  the  bundle  at  the  top  is  not  considered  such. 

R.  Hisda  in  the  name  of  Rabbina  b.  Shila  said  :  Branches 
(stalks)  of  SixpoL  may  be  used  for  covering,  though  they  are  inter- 
twined, because  a  bundle  made  by  nature  is  not  considered  as  a 
bundle.  And  although  one  ties  them  together  himself,  he  may 
nevertheless  use  them,  because  as  at  the  base  they  intertwine 
naturally,  the  bundle  at  the  top  is  not  considered  such.  So  also 
we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  The  stalks  of  Sixfta  may  be  used 
as  covering. 

Maremar  lectured :  The  bundles  they  sell  out  in  the  market 
in  Syria  may  be  used  to  cover,  although  they  are  tied  together, 
because  they  tied  them  only  to  know  the  number.  Huts  of 
reeds,  used  by  fowlers,  if  they  are  untied  at  the  top,  may  be  used 
as  a  covering  for  a  booth  although  they  are  yet  tied  together 
below?  Said  R.  Papa:  One  loosens  them  at  the  bottom  also. 
R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Joshuah,  however,  said :  Even  if  they 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  17 

were  not  untied  at  the  base,  they  also  may  be  used,  because  a 
bundle  that  cannot  hold  together  is  not  called  a  bundle. 

R.  Abba  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  If  of  herbs  by  which 
the  sages  said  a  man  can  fulfil  his  duty  to  eat  bitter  herbs 
on  Passover  was  made  a  tent,  they  bring  defilement,  when  a 
corpse  or  part  of  a  corpse  was  in  it,  to  all  vessels  that  are  in 
the  tent ;  but  if  a  partition  was  made  of  them  they  do  not  pre- 
vent the  defilement  to  spread  further,  and  if  they  are  used  to 
cover  a  Succah,  they  make  it  invalid,  because  when  they  become 
dry  they  crumble  and  fall.  Therefore,  even  if  they  are  wet,  they 
are  considered  not  to  exist  at  all,  and  in  place  of  a  roof  an  empty 
piece  of  space. 

MISHNA:  One  may  cover  with  thin  boards,  according  to 
R.  Jehudah,  but  R.  Meir  prohibits  it.  If  one  has  put  a  deal 
board  four  spans  wide  over  the  booth,  it  is  valid,  provided  that 
one  sleep  not  under  it  (the  board). 

GEMARA :  Said  Rabh :  They  differ  only  about  boards  that 
are  four  spans  wide.  R.  Meir  prohibits  it  as  a  precautionary 
measure,  lest  he  come  to  make  a  ceiling,  and  R.  Jehudah  does 
not  take  this  measure ;  but  if  they  were  less  than  four  spans,  all 
agree  that  it  may  be  used.  Samuel,  however,  says,  on  the  con- 
trary :  They  differ  only  if  it  is  less  than  four  spans  ;  but  if  more, 
all  agree  it  is  prohibited.  If  it  is  less  than  four  spans  and  even 
less  than  three  (they  differ),  how  can  it  be  ?  Is  it  not  considered  a 
stick?  Said  R.  Papa:  Samuel  meant  to  say  thus:  If  it  is  four 
spans,  all  agree  it  is  not  valid ;  less  than  three,  all  agree  it  is 
valid.  They  differ  only  from  three  to  four  ;  one  holds  because  it 
is  not  of  the  prescribed  size  (four  spans),  it  is  valid,  because  they 
are  considered  as  sticks ;  and  another  holds,  as  it  is  more  than 
three,  to  which  the  theory  of  Lavud  cannot  apply,  we  take  the 
precautionary  measure.  Come  and  hear :  Two  sheets,  if  put  in 
the  middle  of  the  roof,  each  of  which  is  less  than  four,  but  whose 
combined  width  is  four  spans  or  more,  make  the  booth  invalid  ;  but 
two  boards  of  the  same  sizes  do  not  combine  to  make  it  invalid.  R. 
Meir,  however,  said  :  The  same  is  the  case  with  both.  It  would 
be  right  according  to  Samuel,  who  said  that  they  differ  when  it  is 
less  than  four  spans  ;  but  if  it  is  four  spans,  all  agree  it  is  invalid, 
because  then  it  would  be  explained  that  the  combined  width 
makes  the  Succah  invalid  if  it  is  on  the  side  of  the  roof  (attached 
to  a  wall),  and  their  combined  width  is  four  ells,  not  four  spans 
(for  otherwise,  if  the  roof  is  by  the  wall,  it  is  valid  up  to  four  ells 
because   it    is   considered   as   a   crooked   wall    continued).     But 


i8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

according  to  Rabh's  opinion,  this  can  be  only  according  to  R.  Meir ; 
but  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  what  can  be  meant  by  the  expres- 
sion "  combined  width,"  since  according  to  him,  if  they  are  less 
than  four  spans,  they  are  considered  sticks?  R.  Jehudah  does 
not  mean  combined  width,  but  only  uses  the  same  expression  as 
R.  Meir  (without  a  particular  meaning). 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  according  to  Rabh,  and  in 
another  Boraitha  according  to  Samuel :  according  to  Rabh,  if 
one  has  covered  the  Succah  with  boards  of  cedar  that  are  less 
than  four  spans  wide,  all  agree  they  are  valid  ;  but  if  they  are 
four  spans,  R.  Meir  makes  it  invalid,  and  R.  Jehudah  makes  it 
valid.  Said  R.  Jehudah  :  It  happened  once,  in  a  time  of  danger, 
we  brought  boards  four  spans  wide,  and  roofed  a  balcony  and 
used  it  as  a  Succah,  and  the  sages  answered  him  :  A  dangerous 
time  does  not  prove.  According  to  Samuel :  If  one  has  roofed 
the  booth  with  cedar  boards  four  spans  wide,  all  agree  it  is  in- 
vaHd  ;  if  less,  according  to  R.  Meir,  it  is  invalid ;  according  to  R. 
Jehudah,  valid.  R.  Meir  agrees,  however,  that  if  there  was  be- 
tween one  board  and  the  other  the  width  of  a  board,  one  may  lay 
between  anything  fit,  and  the  Succah  is  valid.  And  R.  Jehudah 
agrees,  that  if  one  board  was  wide  four  spans,  it  is  valid,  but  one 
must  not  sleep  under  it,  and  who  does  so  does  not  fulfil  the  duty 
of  a  Succah. 

It  was  taught :  If  one  placed  the  boards  on  their  edges  on 
the  Succah,  R.  Huna  said  the  booth  is  invalid,  but  R.  Hisda  and 
Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  both  said  it  is  valid.  It  happened  once  R. 
Na'hman  came  to  Sura :  R.  Hisda  and  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  vis- 
ited him  and  asked  him  the  law  about  the  boards  in  question, 
and  he  said  :  They  are  considered  as  iron  spits,  and  certainly 
invalid.  Said  R.  Huna  to  them :  Did  I  not  tell  you  that  R. 
Na'hman  agrees  with  me  ?  And  they  answered  him :  Did  the 
Master  explain  to  us  the  reason  of  this,  and  we  did  not  accept 
it?  Rejoined  R.  Huna:  Did  you  ask  me  for  the  reason,  and  I 
did  not  tell  it  to  you  ? 

MISHNA :  If  small  rafters,  over  which  is  no  ceiling,  are  to 
be  used  for  a  booth,  R.  Jehudah  says :  Beth  Shammai  hold,  the 
rafters  must  be  loosened,  and  the  middle  one  out  of  every  three 
removed.  But  Beth  Hillel  hold :  One  must  either  loosen  them, 
or  else  remove  one  of  every  three.  R.  Meir  says :  One  must 
remove  one  out  of  three,  but  one  need  not  loosen. 

GEMARA  :  It  is  right  according  to  Beth  Hillel,  as  their  rea- 
son is  because  it  is  written ;  "  Ye  shall   rnake^''  and  not   have 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  19 

ready-made.  Hence  either  of  the  two  is  sufficient.  But  what  is 
the  reason  of  Beth  Shammai  ?  If  the  reason  is  the  same,  why 
must  he  do  both  ?  Is  not  one  sufficient  ?  It  is  as  a  precaution- 
ary measure,  and  Beth  Shammai  meant  to  say  thus  :  Although 
one  has  loosened,  it  is  not  valid  until  he  removes  one  of  every 
three.  If  it  is  so,  then  Beth  Shammai  said  the  same  as  R.  Meir. 
R.  Meir  meant  to  say,  Beth  Shammai  and  Beth  Hillel  did  not 
differ,  if  one  has  removed  same,  though  they  were  not  loosened. 

MISHNA:  If  one  roofs  his  booth  with  iron  spits,  or  with 
boards  of  a  bedstead,  if  there  is  as  wide  a  space  between  them 
(covered  with  anything  fit)  as  one  of  them,  it  is  valid.  If  one 
should  hollow  out  a  space  in  a  stack  (of  sheaves)  to  use  it  as  a 
Succah  (although  of  the  prescribed  size),  it  is  not  considered  as  a 
Succah  at  all. 

GEMARA :  Shall  we  assume  that  the  decision  of  R.  Huna 
the  son  of  R.  Joshuah,  who  says,  that  if  the  open  spaces  of  a 
fence  equal  the  fence  proper  it  is  not  valid  (Erubin,  p.  35),  con- 
tradicts this  Mishna?  R.  Huna  can  explain  the  Mishna,  that  it 
means  an  interspace  a  trifle  wider  than  the  spit  or  board  itself,  so 
as  to  allow  it  to  be  taken  out  and  replaced  without  difficulty. 
But  can  it  not  be  made  precisely  to  fit  ?  (Rashi  explains  this 
question  thus :  At  the  first  glance  the  answer  of  R.  Huna  is  that, 
whenever  the  thing  is  mentioned  to  be  of  the  same  width,  it  is 
meant  to  be  a  trifle  less  wide,  so  as  to  be  removed  without  diffi- 
culty :  and  to  this  comes  the  question,  why  should  it  be  so  made  ? 
can  it  not  be  made  to  fit  precisely?  And  to  this  question  the 
answer  of  R.  Ammi  will  be  farther  on.  But  Tospheth  oppose 
to  this  another  explanation,  which  is  still  more  complicated,  and 
we  have  therefore  translated  the  text  literally.)  Said  R.  Ammi : 
Yea,  but  this  Mishna  means,  it  is  only  valid  then,  when  it  is  a 
trifle  more.  Rabba,  however,  said  :  The  Mishna  can  be  explained 
even  if  it  was  precisely ;  but  if  it  was  laid  lengthwise,  it  should 
be  placed  crosswise,  and  vice  versa  (and  above  them  the  lawful 
roofing,  so  that  the  fit  must  be  more  than  the  unfit  roofing,  and 
thus  the  fit  portion  above  neutralizes  the  unfit  portion  below). 

"  With  boards  of  a  bedstead^  Shall  we  assume  that  this  is  a 
support  to  R.  Ammi  bar  Tibiumi,  who  said  that  if  one  covered 
the  Succah  with  broken  utensils  it  is  invalid  ?  Nay,  the  Mishna 
can  be  explained  as  R.  Hanan  said  in  the  name  of  Rabbi.  If 
the  side-board  of  the  bedstead  was  laid  with  two  short  boards,  or 
two  short  boards  with  the  side-board,  which  is  subject  to  defile- 
ment (as  will  be  explained,  KeHm,  Chap.  XIX.  9).     What  is  meant 


20  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

by  broken  utensils  ?  Said  Abayi :  Remnants  of  silken  togas, 
that  measure  less  than  three  fingers  square,  and  are  of  no  value  to 
either  rich  or  poor  (Sabbath,  p.  272).  We  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha  in  accordance  with  R.  Ammi  bar  Tibiumi :  The  remain- 
ders of  a  mat  of  bark  or  reeds,  although  they  are  less  than  of  the 
prescribed  size  to  be  subject  to  defilement,  must  not  be  used  to 
cover  a  Succah.  A  mat  of  sticks,  if  it  is  large,  may  be  used  to 
cover  it  (because  a  large  one  is  only  made  for  a  covering,  and  is 
not  a  utensil  subject  to  defilement) ;  but  if  small,  it  may  not.  R. 
Eliezer,  however,  said,  that  even  a  large  one  is  subject  to  defile- 
ment, and  may  not  be  used. 

''If  one  should  hollow^'  etc.  R.  Huna  said:  The  case  is, 
when  there  is  no  hole  of  the  size  of  one  span  in  length  by  seven 
in  width ;  but  if  there  was,  it  is  a  Succah.*  We  have  learned  so 
also  in  a  Boraitha :  If  one  hollows  out  a  space  in  a  stack  to  use  it 
as  a  Succah,  it  is  a  Succah.  And  this  Boraitha  must  be  explained 
as  the  decree  of  R.  Huna  to  prevent  the  contradiction  to  our 
Mishna. 

MISHNA :  If  one  suspends  textile  walls  from  the  roof  down- 
wards, if  they  do  not  reach  the  ground  within  three  spans,  it 
is  invalid.  If  they  stand  on  the  ground  and  are  high  ten  spans, 
it  is  valid.  R.  Jose,  however,  said  :  Even  when  the  walls  do  not 
reach  the  ground  by  more  than  three  spans  the  law  of  ten  spans 
applies  to  both  cases  (and  in  either  case  it  is  valid). 

GEMARA:  On  what  point  do  they  differ?  One  holds  that  a 
hanging  partition  makes  the  Succah  valid,  and  the  other  that  it 
does  not.  We  have  learned  in  the  Mishna  in  Erubin,  Chap.  VIII. 
p.2o6,concerninga  wall  that  was  between  two  courts  and  a  partition 
was  made,  and  R.  Jehudah  said  there :  The  partition  is  not  more 
effectual  than  the  wall  which  is  between  them.  Said  Rabba  bar 
bar  Hana,  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  R.  Jehudah's  decree  there 
is  of  the  same  system  as  R.  Jose's  in  our  Mishna,  who  says  that  a 
hanging  partition  makes  valid.  In  reality,  however,  it  is  not  so. 
R.  Jehudah  does  not  agree  with  R.  Jose,  and  vice  versa.  Because 
R.  Jehudah,  who  allows  it  there,  does  so  because  Erubin  of  the 
courts  are  rabbinical ;  but  here,  in  the  case  of  the  Succah,  which 
is  bibUcal,  he  would  not  allow  it.    And,  on  the  contrary,  R.  Jose, 

*  The  reason  is  because  a  hole  of  a  span  constitutes  a  legal  tent  in  the  law  of 
defilement,  and  the  covering  above  it  is  called  rooting.  Now,  if  one  enlarged  this 
hole  to  the  size  prescribed  for  a  Succah,  from  the  base  upwards,  so  that  he  diminished 
the  covering,  he  is  considered  to  have  made  a  new  roofing  and  thus  a  new  tent  for 
this  purpose,  and  it  is  a  valid  Succah.     (Rashi.) 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  21 

who  allows  it  here,  does  it  because  the  Succah  is  only  a  positive 
commandment ;  but  concerning  Sabbath,  where  there  is  a  capital 
punishment,  he  would  not  allow  it.  And  if  it  be  asked,  What 
happened  in  Ziporeth  (which  will  be  related  farther  on),  accord- 
ing to  whose  opinion  was  it?  Not  according  to  R.  Jose,  nor  in 
accordance  with  R.  Jehudah,  but  according  to  R.  Ishmael  bar 
Jose.  Namely :  When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine,  he  told 
that  it  happened  once  (in  Ziporeth)  that  they  had  forgotten  to 
bring  the  holy  scrolls  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  and  on  the  morrow 
they  put  sheets  on  the  pillars  and  brought  the  holy  scrolls,  and 
read  them  (and  these  hanging  partitions  were  made  at  the  com- 
mand of  R.  Ishmael). 

R.  Hisda  in  the  name  of  Abimi  said  :  A  mat  which  is  large 
four  spans  and  a  trifle  can  be  used  as  a  side-wall  to  the  Succah. 
How  shall  it  be  placed?  It  shall  be  hung  in  the  middle,  less 
than  three  spans  from  the  ground,  and  less  than  three  spans  from 
the  roof,  because  we  apply  the  law  of  Lavud  to  both  places.  Is 
not  this  self-evident  ?  One  may  say  that  two  Lavuds  in  one 
case  do  not  apply,  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  we  may. 

MISHNA:  If  the  roof  is  three  spans  distant  from  the  walls, 
the  Succah  is  invahd.  If  the  roof  of  a  house  was  broken,  and  it 
was  covered,  then  if  there  are  four  ells  between  the  wall  and  the 
covering,  it  is  invalid  ;  but  if  less  it  is  valid.  The  same  is  the 
case  with  a  court  surrounded  by  balconies.  If  the  top  of  a  large 
Succah  was  covered  with  something  unfit,  if  it  is  distant  four  ells 
it  is  not  valid. 

GEMARA :  Rabha  said  :  I  once  found  the  rabbis  of  the  col- 
lege sitting  and  declaring :  Air  makes  the  Succah  invalid  with 
three  spans,  but  unfit  covering  makes  it  invalid  only  with  no  less 
than  four  ells ;  and  I  said  to  them  :  Where  do  you  find  that  air 
makes  invalid  with  three  spans  ?  In  our  Mishna,  which  teaches 
if  the  roof  was  at  a  distance  of  three  spans  it  is  invalid  ?  Then, 
learn  also  from  it  that  unfit  covering  should  not  make  the  Succah 
invalid  if  it  is  less  than  four  ells  f  as  it  teaches  farther  on,  that  a 
house  whose  roof  was  broken,  and  it  was  covered  in  the  middle, 
if  there  is  from  the  covering  to  the  wall  four  ells,  then  it  is  in- 
valid ?  And  they  answered  :  Leave  alone  this  teaching,  because 
Rabh  and  Samuel  both  said  that  this  teaching  is  only  because  we 
consider  it  as  a  crooked  wall.  And  I  rejoined  :  If  it  is  so,  what 
would  be  according  to  your  opinion  ?  If  there  would  be  air  less 
than  three  spans,  and  unfit  covering  less  than  four  ells,  in  the 
same  place,  it  certainly  would  be  valid  ;  but  if  one  covered  the 


22  THE  BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

vacant  space  with  iron  spits,  it  would  make  it  invalid.  Now,  the 
air,  which  is  so  rigorous  that  it  makes  invalid  by  three  spans,  will 
not  be  equal  to  an  invalid  covering  which  is  so  lenient  that  it  makes 
invahd  only  by  four  ells  ?  And  they  said  to  me :  And  according 
to  your  theory,  that  unfit  covering  makes  invahd  only  when  it  is 
four  ells,  how  would  the  case  be  if  empty  air  less  than  three  spans 
were  added  to  it  ?  Would  it  not  be  valid  ?  But  if  one  puts  iron 
spits  over  the  empty  place,  would  it  not  make  it  invalid  ?  Now, 
then,  does  not  the  same  question  apply  to  your  theory  also? 
And  I  rejoined  again  :  What  comparison  is  this  ?  In  my  opinion, 
unfit  covering  makes  invalid  with  four  ells,  because  that  is  the  pre- 
scribed quantity,  and  the  same  is  with  air  ;  and  as  both  quantities 
are  not  equal,  they  do  not  combine  together  to  make  the  Succah 
invalid.  But  according  to  your  opinion,  that  the  reason  is  not 
because  it  is  a  prescribed  quantity,  but  because  the  roof  is  sep- 
arated from  the  wall,  then  the  question  is,  what  is  the  difference 
whether  it  be  separated  from  the  wall  by  air  less  than  three  spans 
and  unfit  covering,  or  by  iron  spits  and  unfit  covering  ?  Said 
Abayi  to  him  :  And  even  according  to  the  Master's  opinion,  that 
because  the  quantities  are  not  equal  they  do  not  combine,  this 
can  be  said  only  of  a  large  Succah,  where  unfit  covering  makes 
not  invalid  unless  it  is  four  ells  ;  but  in  a  small  Succah,  where 
unfit  covering  makes  it  invalid  with  three  spans,  are  not  the 
quantities  then  equal  ?  Consequently  they  must  combine,  even 
in  a  large  Succah.  Answered  Rabha  :  In  a  small  Succah  it  is  not 
because  the  prescribed  quantities  are  equal,  but  because  the  pre- 
scribed size  for  a  Succah  does  not  remain. 

Abayi  said  :  If  there  was  air  three  spans  wide  in  a  large  Suc- 
cah, and  one  diminished  it  by  sticks  or  iron  spits,  it  is  considered 
as  diminished ;  but  if  it  was  a  small  Succah,  if  with  sticks  it  is 
lawful,  but  with  iron  spits  it  is  not.  But  this  is  the  case  only 
when  it  is  near  the  wall.  If  in  the  middle  of  the  roof,  however, 
R.  A'ha  and  Rabina  differed :  According  to  one,  the  law  of 
Lavud  applies  also  in  the  middle,  and  according  to  the  other  it 
can  only  be  applied  when  they  are  at  the  side. 

R.  Jehudah  bar  Ilai  lectured  :  If  the  roof  of  a  house  was  bro- 
ken, and  one  covered  it  with  fit  covering,  it  is  valid  for  a  Succah. 
Said  R.  Ishmael  bar  Jose  to  him  :  Rabbi,  explain  your  decision, 
because  my  father  had  explained  thus :  If  it  is  less  than  four  ells 
from  the  wall,  then  it  is  valid ;  but  if  four  or  more,  it  is  invalid. 
Again  lectured  the  same :  An  abruma  (a  small  fish  not  distin- 
guishable from   prohibited  reptiles)  is  permitted.     Said   R.  Ish- 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  23 

mael  to  him  :  Rabbi,  explain  the  decision,  for  so  said  my  father: 
From  one  place  it  is  permitted,  from  another  it  is  not.  Accord- 
ingly, Abayi  said  :  The  small  fish  called  Tza'hntha  (smelt),  of  the 
river  Bab,  are  permitted  (and  from  another  not). 

It  was  taught :  If  one  has  covered  a  balcony  which  has  small 
pillars  (less  than  three  spans  one  from  the  other),  it  is  valid  for  a 
Succah  :  but  if  it  has  no  pillars,  Abayi  said  it  is  valid,  because 
the  edge  of  the  roof  downward  may  be  considered  as  making 
(forming)  a  wall ;  but  Rabha  said  it  is  invalid,  because  he  does 
not  hold  this  theory.  Said  Rabha  to  Abayi :  According  to  thee, 
who  boldest  this  theory,  even  if  the  middle  wall  of  the  Succah  was 
broken,  let  it  also  be  valid,  as  the  edge  of  the  roof  is  considered 
to  descend  and  make  a  wall.  Said  Abayi:  I  yield  to  thee  in 
this  point,  because  it  looks  like  an  open  entry.  An  objection 
was  raised  from  our  Mishna:  If  a  court  is  surrounded  by  bal- 
conies, etc.,  why  ?  Let  it  also  be  considered  that  the  edge  of  the 
roof  makes  it  a  wall?  Rabha  explained,  in  accordance  with 
Abayi's  opinion,  that  the  case  is  that  the  edge  projected  not  over 
the  wall,  but  was  even  with  it. 

R.  Ashi  found  R.  Kahna,  who  had  roofed  a  balcony  that  had 
no  small  pillars,  and  he  asked  him :  Does  not  the  Master  hold 
what  Rabha  said,  that  when  there  are  no  pillars  the  Succah  is 
invalid  ?  And  he  took  him  outside  and  showed  him  that  there 
were  pillars  not  visible  inside,  but  only  outside  ;  and  it  was  taught 
in  Erubin  (p.  17),  if  it  was  seen  from  outside,  and  not  from  inside, 
it  is  regarded  as  a  side-beam,  and  a  side-beam  is  the  same  as  a 
small  pillar. 

A  Boraitha  taught :  A  vestibule,  outside  of  the  booth,  is  con- 
sidered as  the  booth  itself.  What  is  meant  by  this  ?  Said  Ullah  : 
A  vestibule  formed  by  sticks  projecting  beyond  the  Succah. 
Are  not  three  walls  needed?  When  there  are.  But  is  it  not 
needed  that  there  be  more  shadow  than  sunshine?  If  there  was. 
But  is  not  a  prescribed  size  needed  ?  If  it  was.  If  so,  what 
comes  he  to  teach  us?  Lest  one  say,  that  because  the  Succah 
was  made  for  sitting  inside,  shall  the  outside  not  be  considered  a 
Succah  at  all,  he  comes  to  teach  us  it  is  not. 

MISHNA:  If  one  makes  a  Succah  in  the  form  of  a  cone,  or 
leans  the  roof  against  a  wall,  R.  Eliezer  says  it  is  not  valid, 
because  it  has  no  roof ;  but  the  sages  declare  it  is  valid. 

GEMARA :  A  Boraitha  taught :  R.  Eliezer  admits,  if  one 
placed  it  one  span  over  the  ground,  or  separated  it  one  span  from 
the  wall,  the  Succah  is  valid.     What  is  the  reason  of  the  sages? 


24  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

for  the  theory  of  Lavud  applies  to  them,  and  they  are  regarded 
as  upright.  They  hold  that  the  slanting  parts  of  a  tent  are  con- 
sidered as  the  tent  itself.  Abayi  found  R.  Joseph  sleeping  in  a 
nuptial  bed  in  a  Succah.  Said  Abayi  to  him :  According  to 
whom  do  you  do  so  ?  According  to  R.  Eliezer  ?  Then  you  left  the 
majority  of  rabbis,  and  followed  an  individual.  Answered  he : 
The  Boraitha  teaches  the  contrary :  That  R.  Eliezer  makes  it 
valid,  but  the  sages  say  it  is  invalid.  Rejoined  Abayi :  Then  you 
leave  a  Mishna,  and  act  according  to  a  Boraitha.  And  he  an- 
swered :  The  Mishna  is  written  according  to  an  individual's  opinion, 
as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  if  one  makes  a  booth  in  the 
form  of  a  cave,  or  leans  the  roof  on  a  wall,  R.  Nathan  said  that 
R.  EHezer  makes  it  invalid,  because  it  has  no  roof,  but  the  sages 
permit  this. 

MISHNA:  A  large  reed  mat  made  for  sleeping  on  is  subject 
to  defilement,  and  a  Succah  must  not  be  covered  with  it ;  but  if  it 
was  made  to  cover  a  booth,  it  may  be  used,  and  is  not  subject  to 
defilement.  R.  Eleazar  said :  There  is  no  difference  whether  it 
is  large  or  small,  but  only  the  use  for  which  it  was  made  is  consid- 
ered ;  if  for  sleeping,  then  it  is  subject  to  defilement,  and  must 
not  be  used ;  but  in  the  other  case,  if  for  covering,  it  is  not  sub- 
ject to  defilement,  and  may  be  used. 

GEMARA:  Did  not  the  Mishna  contradict  itself?  In  the 
first  part  it  says,  if  it  was  made  for  sleeping,  then  it  is  subject  to 
defilement,  etc.,  but  if  the  purpose  for  which  it  was  made  was  not 
expressed,  it  must  be  considered  as  for  a  covering.  And  the 
second  part  says,  "  If  it  was  tnade  for  a  cover "  ;  from  this  we 
may  infer,  if  the  purpose  was  not  expressed  we  consider  it  for 
sleeping?  Said  R.  Papa:  In  case  of  a  small  one,  if  the  purpose 
was  not  expressed,  all  agree  it  may  be  considered  as  for  sleeping ; 
but  in  case  of  a  large  one,  the  first  Tana  holds  that  where  no  pur- 
pose was  expressed  it  is  considered  to  have  been  made  for  cover- 
ing. But  R.  Eliezer  holds,  that  even  a  large  one  is  also  usually 
made  for  sleeping,  and  the  expression  in  the  Mishna,  "  if  it  was 
made  for  sleeping,"  is  to  be  explained  so :  if  it  was  made,  say  it  is 
for  the  purpose  of  sleeping,  unless  he  expressed  another  purpose. 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  mat  made  of  bark  or  papyrus,  if  large, 
may  be  used  for  a  cover;  but  if  small,  it  may  not.  If  it  is  of 
reeds,  or  hilatk,  a  large  one  may  be  used  for  covering  ;  but  if  they 
are  woven  together,  it  may  not.  R.  Ishmael  bar  Jose  said  in  the 
name  of  his  father :  Both  may  be  used  to  cover,  and  the  same 
said  R.  Dosa. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  2^ 

We  have  learned  (Edioth,  III.  4) :  ''AH  hutzlahs  *  are  liable 
to  become  unclean  from  a  corpse,  so  is  the  decree  of  R.  Dosa  ; 
but  the  sages  said  :  They  are  liable  to  become  unclean  only  by 
pressing."  What  are  hutzlahs?  Said  R.  Simeon  bar  Lakish  :  It 
Tieans  ordinary  mats,  and  the  same  is  according  to  his  theory 
elsewhere,  where  he  said  :  I  would  sacrifice  myself  to  bring  back 
to  life  R.  Hiya  and  his  children,  because  in  the  ancient  time, 
when  the  Torah  was  forgotten  by  Israel,  Ezra  came  from  Baby- 
lon, and  reestablished  it  again  ;  when  afterwards  it  was  again  for- 
gotten, Hillel  the  Babylonian  came  up  from  Babylon  and  restored 
it  again  ;  and  when  it  was  again  forgotten,  came  R.  Hiya  and  his 
children  and  restored  it  again.  And  they  said  to  this  :  That  R. 
Dosa  and  the  sages  did  not  differ  about  the  mats  of  the  city  of 
Usha,  that  they  are  subject  to  defilement,  and  ihat  the  mats  of 
Tiberia  are  not ;  what  they  do  differ  about  is  the  mats  of  other 
places  :  one  holds  that  because  nobody  sits  on  them,  they  arc 
equal  to  those  of  Tiberia  ;  and  the  others  hold  that  because  it  can 
happen  that  somebody  should  sit  upon  them,  they  are  equal  to 
the  mats  of  Usha. 

We  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Hananiah  said  :  When  I  came 
into  the  exile,  I  found  an  old  man  who  said  to  me  that  to  cover 
a  Succah  with  a  mat  is  lawful ;  afterwards,  when  I  came  to  R. 
Joshuah  my  father's  brother,  he  admitted  this  theory.  Said  R. 
Hisda :  This  is  only  when  it  is  not  seamed.  Said  Ullah  :  The 
mats  from  the  city  of  Mehuzah,  but  for  their  seams,  would  be 
lawful  to  be  used  for  covering.  So  also  we  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha :  Mats  may  be  used  for  covering,  provided  they  have 
no  seams. 

*  See  Levi's  Dictionary. 


CHAPTER   11. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING    THE    SITUATIONS  IN  WHICH  A  BOOTH  MAY 
BE    PLACED,    WHAT    MUST    BE    DONE    IN    IT,    ETC. 

MISHNA:  He  who  sleeps  under  a  bed  in  the  booth  has  not 
fulfilled  his  duty  (of  sleeping  there).  Said  R.  Jehudah  :  We  were 
in  the  habit  of  sleeping  under  a  bed  in  the  presence  of  the  elders, 
and  they  never  said  anything  to  us.  Said  R.  Simeon :  It  hap- 
pened that  Tabbi,  the  slave  of  R.  Gamaliel,  used  to  sleep  under 
a  bed.  But  R.  Gamaliel  said  to  the  elders  :  Do  you  see  my  slave 
Tabbi  ?  He  is  a  scholar  (Talmud  Hakham),  and  knows  that 
slaves  are  exempt  from  the  duty  of  Succah.  Therefore  he  sleeps 
under  a  bedstead.  From  this  we  infer  that  he  who  sleeps  under 
a  bed  has  not  fulfilled  his  duty. 

GEMARA:  Why?  The  bed  is  usually  not  ten  spans  high ? 
Samuel  explained  this,  that  the  case  is  when  the  bed  is  high  ten 
spans.  (But  if  so,)  what  is  the  reason  of  R.  Jehudah's  decree? 
This  is  according  to  his  theory  elsewhere,  that  the  Succah  must 
be  a  permanent  dwelling,  and  the  bed  is  only  a  temporary  dwell- 
ing, and  a  temporary  dwelling  cannot  make  ignored  a  permanent 
one.  But  did  not  R.  Simeon  hold  the  same  theory,  that  a  Succah 
must  be  a  permanent  dwelling  (because  his  decree  is  that  it  must 
have  four  walls),  and  nevertheless  he  does  not  allow  to  sleep  under 
the  bed  ?  This  is  the  point  of  their  difference :  according  to 
R.  Simeon  a  temporary  dwelling  makes  ignored,  and  according  to 
R.  Jehudah  it  does  not. 

''It  happened  once  that  Tabbi  the  slave,''  etc.  We  have  learned 
in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Simeon  said :  From  R.  Gamaliel's  remarks  we 
have  learned  two  things :  That  slaves  are  free  from  the  duty  of  a 
Succah,  and  that  one  who  sleeps  under  a  bed  has  not  fulfilled  the 
duty  of  Succah.  Let  him  say,  "  from  R.  GamaHel's  decree,"  he 
comes  to  teach  us  by  the  way  that  R.  A'ha  bar  Adda,  according 
to  others  the  same  in  the  name  of  R.  Hamnuna,  quoting  Rabh, 
said :  Whence  do  we  know  that  even  a  remark  of  a  scholar  must 
be  studied  ?  Because  it  is  written  [Ps.  i.]  **  And  the  leaf  does  not 
wither,"  even  a  slight  thing  as  a  leaf  is  not  valueless. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  27 

MISHNA :  If  one  supports  his  Succah  with  a  bedstead,  it  is 
vahd.  R.  Jehudah  said  :  A  Succah  that  cannot  stand  by  itself  is 
invaUd. 

GEMARA :  What  is  the  reason  of  R.  Jehudah's  decree?  R. 
Zera  and  R.  Abba  bar  Mamel  differed  :  One  says  :  Because  so  it  is 
not  made  a  permanent  dwelHng ;  and  one  says :  Because  he  sup- 
ports it  with  a  thing  subject  to  defilement.  What  is  the  differ- 
ence ?  If  one  put  iron  spits  and  covered  it,  according  to  them 
who  say  because  it  is  not  permanent,  the  iron  spits  are  permanent ; 
but  according  to  those  who  say  because  he  supports  with  a  thing 
subject  to  defilement,  the  iron  spits  are  subject  to  defilement,  and 
are  invalid.  Said  Abayi :  They  differ  only  if  he  supports  the 
booth  with  the  bedstead  ;  but  if  he  has  roofed  the  bed  itself,  all 
agree  it  is  valid.  Why  so  ?  Because  to  them  who  say,  because 
it  is  not  permanent,  it  can  be  said  the  bed  is  permanent ;  and  to 
them  who  say  because  he  supports  with  a  thing  subject  to  defile- 
ment, it  can  be  said  the  roof  is  not  subject  to  defilement. 

MISHNA:  A  Succah  covered  thinly,  if  there  is  more  shadow 
than  sun,  is  valid  ;  if  the  covering  is  close,  like  the  roof  of  a 
house,  though  the  stars  are  not  visible  through  it,  it  is  nevertheless 
valid. 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by  thin  covering?  Said  Rabh : 
Scanty  covering  (too  much  empty  space  between  one  stick  and 
the  other).  And  Samuel  said :  Irregular  covering — one  twig 
down,  one  twig  up,  that  is.  Rabh  interpreted  that  the  Mishna 
teaches  only  one  case,  a  poor  Succah,  in  which  there  is  more 
shadow  than  sun,  is  valid ;  and  according  to  Samuel,  the  Mishna 
teaches  two  things :  first,  that  a  Succah  with  an  irregular  cover- 
ing is  valid  ;  and  secondly,  that  all  Succahs  where  the  shadow  is 
more  than  the  sunshine  are  valid.  Said  Abayi :  The  Mishna 
refers  to  a  case  where  there  is  not  three  spans  distance  from  one 
twig  to  the  other ;  but  if  there  is,  it  is  invalid.  Rabha,  however, 
said  :  Even  if  there  were  three  spans  between,  provided  the  twig 
was  not  wide  at  the  top  a  span,  it  is  invalid  ;  but  if  it  was,  it  is 
valid,  because  we  say :  Havit  ramii^  and  it  is  valid. 

^'  If  there  is  more  shadow  than  sun^  From  this  we  may  infer, 
that  if  they  were  equal,  it  is  not  valid  ;  but  in  the  first  chapter 


*  This  expression  has  the  same  meaning  dJS,  gud  achith,  explained  in  Erubin,  p.  6, 
and  means,  if  the  twig  was  a  span  at  the  top,  it  is  considered  whether  the  top  lies 
over  the  empty  place.  And  Rashi  explains  this,  that  the  twigs  were  not  lying  but 
standing  upright,  and  therefore  the  top  when  wide  a  span  is  considered  to  be  lying. 


28  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  Mishna  teaches,  if  the  sunshine  was  more  than  the  shadow  it 
is  invaUd,  from  which  we  may  infer  that  if  they  were  equal  it  is 
vahd?  It  presents  no  difficulty.  If  on  the  top  the  empty  place 
was  equal  to  the  covering,  because  on  the  ground  the  sunshine 
would  appear  larger ;  but  if  on  the  ground  the  sunshine  and  the 
shadow  are  equal,  it  is  valid,  because  then  on  the  top  there  must 
be  more  covering  than  empty  space.  Said  R.  Papa :  This  is  ac- 
<:ording  to  what  people  say :  If  on  the  top  it  is  of  the  size  of  a 
Zuz,  it  appears  on  the  ground  the  size  of  a  Sela.* 

''  If  close  like  the  roof  of  a  housed  The  rabbis  taught :  If  it 
was  close  as  a  roof  of  a  house,  although  the  stars  cannot  be  seen 
through  it,  it  is  valid  ;  but  if  the  rays  of  the  sun  do  not  penetrate, 
Beth  Shammai  hold  it  is  not  vaHd,  and  Beth  Hillel  hold  it  is. 

MISHNA  :  If  one  constructs  a  Succah  on  the  top  of  a  wagon, 
or  on  board  a  vessel,  it  is  valid,  and  he  may  ascend  thereto  on 
the  festival.  If  he  has  constructed  the  Succah  on  the  top  of  a 
tree,  or  on  the  back  of  a  camel,  it  is  vaHd ;  but  he  must  not 
ascend  thereto  on  the  festival  days.  If  two  walls  are  formed  by  a 
tree,  and  one  by  human  hands,  or  two  by  human  hands  and  one 
by  a  tree,  the  Succah  is  valid,  but  one  must  not  ascend  thereto 
on  the  festival.  This  is  the  rule :  Whenever  the  Succah  can 
stand  by  itself,  even  should  the  tree  be  removed,  the  Succah  is 
valid,  and  it  is  lawful  to  ascend  thereto  on  the  festival. 

GEMARA :  This  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Aqiba 
only,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  :  If  a  Succah  was  made  on  a 
ship,  Rabban  Gamaliel  makes  it  invalid,  and  R.  Aqiba  makes  it 
valid.  It  happened  once  that  Rabban  Gamaliel  and  R.  Aqiba 
were  on  a  ship,  and  R.  Aqiba  constructed  a  Succah  on  the  ship. 
On  the  morrow  a  wind  blew  it  off,  and  Rabban  Gamaliel  said  to 
him  :  Aqiba,  where  is  thy  Succah?  Said  Abayi :  If  the  Succah 
cannot  withstand  an  ordinary  wind  from  land,  all  agree  that  it  is  not 
a  Succah  at  all ;  if  it  can  hold  out  a  storm  on  land,  all  agree  it  must 
be  regarded  as  a  Succah  ;  but  if  it  can  hold  out  an  ordinary  wind 
from  land,  but  not  an  ordinary  wind  from  the  sea,  there  is  the  point 
of  their  difference  :  R.  Gamaliel  holds  it  must  be  a  permanent 
dwelling,  and  as  it  cannot  withstand  an  ordinary  wind  from  the 
sea,  it  is  not  considered  as  anything  ;  but  R.  Aqiba  holds  that 
only  a  temporary  dwelling  is  needed,  and  so  soon  as  it  is  proof 
against  an  ordinary  wind  from  land,  it  is  called  a  temporary 
dwelling. 

*  Two  coins,  the  first  a  small  one,  the  second  very  large. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  29 

"  Or  on  the  back  of  a  camels  The  Mishna  is  in  accordance 
with  R.  Meir.  as  we  learn  in  the  following  Boraitha :  If  one  has 
made  his  Succah  on  the  back  of  an  animal,  it  is  valid,  according 
to  R.  Meir;  but  not  according  to  R.  Jehudah.  What  is  the 
reason  of  R.  Jehudah?  Because  it  is  written  [Deut.  xvi.  13]: 
"  The  feast  of  tabernacles  shalt  thou  hold  seven  days."  From 
this  we  infer  that  a  booth  fit  for  all  seven  days  may  be  called  a 
Succah,  but  not  otherwise  (and  as  the  sages  prohibited  to  mount 
an  animal  on  the  festival,  it  is  not  fit  for  the  first  day  of  the 
festival).  But  what  would  R.  Meir  answer  to  this  ?  Biblically  it 
is  fit,  but  only  the  rabbis  prohibited  as  a  precautionary  measure 
to  mount  an  animal  (and  if  biblically  fit,  it  is  called  a  Succah). 

If  the  animal  was  used  as  a  wall  to  the  Succah  ?  R.  Meir 
makes  it  invalid,  and  R.  Jehudah  makes  it  valid.  Because  R. 
Meir  used  to  say  :  All  things  which  have  life  must  not  be  made 
a  wall  to  the  Succah,  nor  a  side-beam  to  an  entry,  nor  an  enclosure 
to  a  well,  nor  a  covering  of  a  grave ;  and  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose 
the  Galilean  it  was  said  :  Also,  a  letter  of  divorce  must  not  be 
written  on  it.  What  is  the  reason  of  R.  Meir?  Abayi  said: 
Because  it  may  die.  R.  Zera  said  :  Because  it  can  run  away.  If 
an  elephant  were  tied  to  a  wall  and  used  as  a  wall,  all  agree  it  is 
vahd,  because,  even  if  it  should  die,  its  carcass  measures  more 
than  ten  spans.  In  what  they  differ  is,  when  the  elephant  is  not 
tied :  according  to  them  who  fear  its  death,  it  is  valid ;  but  ac- 
cording to  those  who  fear  its  flight,  it  is  not  valid.  But  did 
Abayi  say  that  R.  Meir  feared  its  death,  and  R.  Jehudah  did  not? 
Have  we  not  heard  the  contrary  from  him  in  Gittin,  that  R.  Meir 
feared  it,  and  R.  Jehudah  did  not?  Read  these  conversely: 
Abayi  said  R.  Meir  feared  its  death,  and  R.  Jehudah  did  not. 
But  did  we  not  learn  in  Tract  Yomah,  R.  Jehudah  declares  :  To 
the  high-priest  another  wife  must  be  prepared  for  the  Day  of 
Atonement,  lest  his  wife  die  ?  (So  he  apprehends  death.)  Is  it 
not  taught,  in  addition  to  the  same  Mishna :  R.  Huna  the  son  of 
R.  Joshua  said,  that  for  forgiving  the  sins  an  exceptional  rule 
was  made  ? 

Let  us  see:  According  to  both  sages  —  who  apprehend 
death  or  flight — biblically  it  is  valid  as  a  wall ;  and  only  as  a 
rabbinical  precautionary  measure  is  it  forbidden.  Why  is  it 
not  subject  to  defilement  when  it  covers  a  grave,  according 
to  R.  Meir?  Said  R.  A'ha  bar  Jacob:  R.  Meir  holds  that 
all  partitions  not  made  by  human  hands  are  not  called  partitions 
at  all. 


so  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

MISHNA :  If  one  makes  a  booth  between  trees  which  form 
side-walls,  it  is  valid. 

GEMARA :  A'ha  bar  Jacob  said  :  All  partitions  that  are  not 
proof  against  an  ordinary  wind  are  not  partitions  at  all.  An  ob- 
jection was  raised  from  our  Mishna,  which  teaches  that  if  the 
trees  were  used  as  walls,  it  is  valid  ;  but  did  not  the  trees  shake 
by  an  ordinary  wind  ?  The  case  is,  when  they  are  old  trees.  But 
even  if  old  trees,  are  there  not  branches?  If  one  weaves  the 
branches  into  the  walls.  If  it  is  so,  what  does  he  come  to  teach 
us  ?  Is  it  not  self-evident  ?  One  might  say  that  perhaps  it  shall 
be  prohibited  as  a  precautionary  measure,  lest  on  the  festival  he 
climb  the  tree,  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  such  a  measure  is  not 
taken. 

MISHNA :  Delegates  for  a  religious  purpose  are  free  from 
the  duty  of  Succah  ;  also  sick  persons,  and  those  who  nurse  them. 
One  may  occasionally  eat  or  drink  something  outside  of  the 
booth. 

GEMARA :  Whence  do  we  deduce  this  ?  From  what  the 
rabbis  taught :  It  is  written  [Deut.  vi.  7]  :  ''  When  thou  sittest  in 
thy  house  "  :  that  means,  except  when  thou  art  occupied  by  a 
religious  observance  ;  [ibid.]  ''  When  thou  walkest  by  the  way  " 
means,  except  when  thou  goest  to  marry.  From  this  is  said, 
that  he  who  marries  a  virgin  is  exempt,  but  he  who  marries  a 
widow  is  not.  But  how  can  this  be  inferred  ?  Said  R.  Huna  :  From 
the  expression  "  on  the  way,"  as  one  goes  on  the  way,  means  as  a 
voluntary  act,  and  this  is  to  exclude  one  occupied  by  a  religious 
duty.  R.  Abba  bar  Zabda  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  A  mourner 
is  not  exempt  from  the  duty  of  the  Succah.  Is  not  this  self- 
evident  ?  One  might  say,  because  the  same  authority  says  else- 
where that  one  who  is  afflicted  by  something  is  exempt  from  the 
duty  of  Succah,  and  a  mourner  is  certainly  afflicted,  one  might  say 
that  he  is  exempt,  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is  when  the  affliction 
is  caused  by  the  Succah ;  but  here,  when  he  afflicts  himself,  he 
must  divert  his  attention,  and  fulfil  the  duty  of  Succah.  The 
same  says  again  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  A  bridegroom  and  his 
attendants  and  all  who  belong  to  the  wedding-party  are  exempt 
from  the  Succah  all  the  seven  days.  Why  so  ?  Because  they 
must  enjoy  themselves.  But  let  them  enjoy  themselves  in  the 
Succah  ?  No  enjoyment  can  be  had  outside  of  the  house  where 
the  wedding  is.  But  let  them  eat  in  the  Succah  and  enjoy  them- 
selves in  the  house.  There  is  no  enjoyment  except  where  the 
banquet  is.     But  let  the  house  where  the  wedding  takes  place 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  31 

be  made  in  the  Succah  ?  Abayi  said,  it  cannot  be  made,  be- 
cause the  bride  must  not  be  left  with  strangers;  and  Rabha 
said,  because  the  bridegroom  will  find  it  inconvenient.  What  is 
the  difference  ?  when  even  in  the  house,  where  men  come  in  and  go 
out,  they  are  not  in  privacy,  but  it  is  inconvenient.  According  to 
Abayi,  it  may  be  made  in  the  Succah,  and  according  to  Rabha  it 
may  not.  R.  Zera  said  :  When  I  was  a  bridegroom,  I  ate  in  the 
Succah,  and  enjoyed  myself  in  the  bride's  house,  and  I  enjoyed 
myself  the  more  because  I  fulfilled  two  religious  duties. 

The  rabbis  taught:  A  bridegroom  and  his  attendants  and 
all  the  wedding-party  are  exempt  from  prayers,  from  phylacteries, 
but  they  must  read  Shema.  In  the  name  of  R.  Shila  it  was  said : 
Only  the  bridegroom  is  exempt,  but  all  the  others  are  not.  A 
Boraitha  states,  R.  Hanania  b.  Akabia  said  :  Writers  of  the  holy 
scrolls,  or  tefilin,  or  mezuzoth,  they  and  the  wholesale  sellers  and 
the  retail  sellers,  and  all  men  engaged  in  work  for  Heaven,  in- 
cluding also  the  sellers  of  blue  threads  for  tzitzith,  are  exempt 
from  the  reading  of  Shema,  from  praying,  from  tefilin,  and  all  the 
religious  duties  commanded  in  the  Torah.  He  said  so  to  confirm 
the  words  of  R.  Jose  the  Galilean,  who  said :  Who  is  engaged  in 
one  religious  work,  is  free  from  another  one. 

The  rabbis  taught  :  Those  who  are  on  the  road  in  the  day  are 
exempt  from  the  duty  of  Succah  during  the  day,  but  not  during 
the  night ;  and  if  they  travel  by  night,  it  is  conversely.  If  they 
travel  during  both,  they  are  exempt  wholly.  But  who  goes  on  a 
religious  mission,  is  exempt  from  the  duty  of  Succah  both  by  day 
and  by  night.  As  it  happened,  R.  Hisda  and  Rabha  bar  R. 
Huna  coming  on  a  Sabbath  falling  on  one  of  the  intermediate 
days,  to  the  exilarch  to  hear  his  lecture,  they  slept  on  the  bank 
of  a  river  of  Sura.  They  said,  we  are  delegates  for  a  religious 
purpose,  and  exempt  from  the  duty  of  Succah. 

The  rabbis  taught  :  The  watchmen  of  a  tower  who  watch  by 
day  are  exempt  from  the  Succah  by  day,  but  not  by  night  ;  and 
those  who  watch  by  night  are  exempt  for  the  night,  and  those 
who  watch  during  both  are  entirely  exempt.  Those  who  watch 
gardens  and  vineyards  are  exempt  from  the  Succah  by  day  and 
by  night.  But  let  them  make  the  booths  there,  and  sit  in  them  ? 
Said  Abayi :  It  is  written  :  ''  Ye  shall  dwell  in  booths."  It  must 
be  where  the  dwellings  are.  And  Rabha  said  :  The  hole  brings 
the  thief  {i.e.,  he  will  not  be  able  to  watch  carefully).  What  is 
the  difference?  When  the  whole  of  the  fruit  would  be  visible 
from  his  position  in  the  Succah  (he  should  sit  in  one). 


32  THE  BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

''Sick  persons  and  their  nurses^  The  rabbis  taught:  Not 
only  those  who  are  dangerously  sick,  but  if  there  is  no  danger,  if 
one  has  sore  eyes  or  a  headache,  he  is  also  exempt.  R.  Simeon 
b.  Gamaliel  told  :  It  once  happened  I  had  sore  eyes  when  I  was 
in  Caesarea  (Kisrin),  and  R.  Jose  the  Great  allowed  me  and  my 
servants  to  sleep  outside  of  the  Succah.  Rabh,  however,  allowed 
R.  A'ha  of  Bardla  to  sleep  under  a  canopy  in  a  booth  (though 
ten  spans  high),  to  prevent  mosquitoes.  Rabha  allowed  R.  A'ha 
bar  Ada  to  sleep  outside  of  the  Succah,  because  it  was  freshly 
whitewashed.  And  Rabha  acted  according  to  his  theory  else- 
where, that  whoever  suffers  is  exempt.  But  have  we  not  learned 
in  our  Mishna  that  only  sick  persons  are  exempt,  and  we  may 
infer,  not  those  who  are  in  sorrow  ?  Nay,  in  case  of  a  sick  person, 
he  and  his  nurses  are  exempt,  but  he  who  is  in  sorrow  may 
only  himself  stay  out,  not  his  servants. 

''Men  may  occasionally  eat,''  etc.  What  is  meant  by  some- 
thing? Said  R.  Joseph  :  Two  or  three  eggs.  Said  Abayi  to  him  : 
But  many  times  a  man  finds  three  eggs  sufficient  for  a  meal  ? 
Therefore  said  Abayi :  As  much  as  a  young  scholar  partakes 
before  he  goes  to  hear  the  lecture. 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  may  eat  a  hasty  meal  outside  of  the 
Succah,  but  one  must  not  take  a  nap  outside.  Why  so  ?  Said 
R.  Ashi :  As  a  precautionary  measure,  lest  he  fall  profoundly 
asleep  for  the  whole  night.  Said  Abayi  to  him  :  If  it  is  so,  why 
does  a  Boraitha  allow  a  man  to  take  a  nap  with  his  tefilin  on,  but 
not  to  sleep  long  ?  Let  it  be  apprehended  lest  he  fall  asleep  ? 
Said  R.  Joseph  bar  Ilai :  This  is  the  case  when  he  has  engaged  a 
man  to  wake  him  up.  Rabha,  however,  said  :  There  is  no  ap- 
pointed time  for  sleeping ;  concerning  the  tefilin,  it  is  for  a  dif- 
ferent reason  (as  will  be  explained  in  Tract  Benedictions).  Rabh 
said :  One  must  not  sleep  by  day  longer  than  a  horse  sleeps. 
How  long  is  it?  So  as  to  be  able  to  make  sixty  respirations. 
Said  Abayi :  My  Master  used  to  sleep  by  day  as  long  as  Rabh, 
and  Rabh  as  Rabbi,  and  Rabbi  as  King  David,  and  David  slept 
as  long  as  a  horse.  And  how  long  is  the  sleep  of  a  horse  ?  Sixty 
respirations.  Abayi  himself  sleeps  as  long  as  it  would  take  to 
walk  from  Pompeditha  to  Be  Kubi.  Exclaimed  R.  Joseph  about 
him  the  verse  in  Proverbs  [vi.  9]  :  "  How  long,  O  sluggard,  wilt 
thou  lie  down?     When  wilt  thou  arise  out  of  thy  sleep?  " 

MISHNA:  It  happened  that  a  dish  was  brought  to  R. 
Johanan  b.  Zakai  to  taste,  and  two  dates  and  a  jar  of  water  to 
Rabban  Gamaliel.     Each  of  them  said :  Bring  it  to  the  booth. 


TRACT   SUCCAH. 


33 


But  when  food  less  than  an  egg  was  brought  to  R.  Zadok,  he  took 
it  in  the  napkin,  and  ate  it  outside  of  the  booth,  but  did  not  pro- 
nounce the  benediction  after  meals  for  it. 

GEMARA :  Is  it  customary  to  adduce  an  act  as  a  contra- 
diction to  the  former  teaching  of  the  Mishna  above  (which  says 
a  hasty  meal  may  be  eaten  outside  of  the  Succah)  ?  The  above 
Mishna  is  not  completed,  and  must  read  so :  If  one  wants  to 
make  it  more  rigorous  for  himself,  he  may  do  so,  without  it 
being  said  he  is  vain ;  and  it  also  happened  with  R.  Johanan  b. 
Zakai  and  Rabban  Gamaliel  that  a  dish  and  dates  were  brought 
to  them,  and  they  said  they  should  be  carried  to  the  Succah. 

^^  And  when  food  less  than  the  size  of  an  egg,''  etc.  But  if  the 
size  of  a  whole  egg  ?  Then  the  Succah  is  needed  ?  Shall  we 
assume  that  this  will  be  an  objection  to  the  teaching  of  R.  Joseph 
and  Abayi  (which  states  above,  three  eggs,  or  as  much  as  a  young 
scholar,  which  is  at  any  rate  not  less  than  an  eg<^  ?  Nay,  it  may 
be  explained  that  if  it  would  be  of  the  size  of  an  egg,  the  legal 
washing  of  hands  before  and  benediction  after  the  meal  would  be 
needed  (but  Succah  would  not  be  needed). 

MISHNA  :  Fourteen  meals  must  be  eaten  in  the  Succah,  one 
in  the  morning  and  one  at  night  (of  each  day  of  the  festival), 
according  to  R.  Eleazar ;  but  the  sages  say  it  is  not  fixed  by  law, 
except  that  one  must  eat  in  the  Succah  on  the  first  night.  R. 
Eleazar  said  again  :  He  who  has  not  eaten  on  the  first  night  can 
make  amends  for  it  by  eating  in  the  booth  on  the  last  night  of  the 
festival ;  but  according  to  the  sages  no  amends  can  be  made,  and 
they  apply  it  to  the  verse  [Eccl.  i.  15]  :  "  What  is  crooked  cannot 
be  made  straight,  and  that  which  is  defective  cannot  be  numbered." 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  reason  of  R.  Eleazar?  Because  it  is 
written :  "  Ye  shall  dwell."  And  as  in  a  dwelling  it  is  usually 
eaten  in  the  morning  and  in  the  evening,  so  must  it  be  done  also  in 
the  Succah ;  but  according  to  the  sages,  it  is  as  a  dwelling,  where 
one  eats  or  not,  at  his  pleasure.  If  it  is  so,  why  is  he  bound  to  eat 
the  first  evening  of  the  festival  ?  Said  R.  Johanan  in  the  name 
of  R.  Simeon  b.  Jehozodok :  It  is  written  here  in  the  fifteenth, 
and  about  the  Passover  the  word  fifteen  is  written :  there  is  an 
analogy  of  expression,  as  on  Passover  the  first  night  must  Matzah 
be  eaten,  and  later  it  is  optional,  so  on  the  first  night  of  the 
Feast  of  Tabernacles  it  must  be  eaten  in  the  Succah,  and  hence- 
forth it  is  optional.  But  whence  is  it  known  that  on  Passover  it 
is  obligatory?  Because  it  is  written  [Ex.  xii.  18]  :  ''At  evening 
shall  ye  eat  unleavened  bread."  This  verse  makes  it  obligatory. 
3 


34  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

''  R.  Eliezer  said  again,''  etc.  But  did  not  R.  Eliezer  say  that 
it  is  obligatory  to  eat  fourteen  meals  in  the  Succah  :  every  day 
one  meal  in  the  morning  and  in  the  evening?  Said  Bira  in  the 
name  of  R.  Ami :  R.  Eliezer  retracted  what  he  had  said.  But 
with  what  shall  he  make  amends  ?  Shall  he  eat  another  meal  ? 
A  man  cannot  eat  more  than  he  needs.  With  extra  dishes  for 
dessert.  We  have  also  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  if  one  makes 
amends  with  extra  dishes,  he  has  done  his  duty.  The  manager 
of  the  house  of  Agrippa  the  king  (Eitirponoi)  asked  R.  Eliezer  :  I, 
for  instance,  who  eat  only  one  meal  in  twenty-four  hours,  may  I 
do  so  in  the  Succah — eat  one  meal  and  fulfil  my  duty  ?  And 
he  answered  him :  Did  you  not  make  every  day  many  dishes  of 
delicacies  for  the  sake  of  yourself,  and  can  you  not  add  one  dish 
for  the  sake  of  your  Creator?  He  asked  him  again:  I,  for  ex- 
ample, who  have  two  wives,  one  in  Tiberia  and  one  in  Ziporeth, 
and  have  also  two  booths,  one  in  Tiberia  and  one  in  Ziporeth, 
may  I  go  from  one  Succah  to  the  other,  and  my  duty  shall  be 
fulfilled  ?  And  he  answered  :  Nay,  because  I  say  who  goes  from 
one  booth  to  another  abolishes  the  religious  duty  he  has  done  in 
the  first. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Eliezer  said:  One  must 
not  go  out  from  one  Succah  to  another  (to  eat  in  one  and  sleep 
in  another),  and  a  Succah  must  not  be  made  in  the  intermediate 
days.  The  sages,  however,  say :  Both  may  be  done.  All  agree 
that  if  the  Succah  has  fallen,  he  may  rebuild  it  on  the  interme- 
diate days.  What  is  the  reason  of  R.  Eliezer?  Because  it  is 
written  [Deut.  xvi.  13]  :  "  Seven  days  shall  ye  hold  the  feast  of 
tabernacles."  From  this  we  infer  the  Succah  shall  be  made  to 
be  fit  for  seven  days.  The  rabbis,  however,  explained  this  pas- 
sage so  :  On  the  Feast  of  the  Tabernacles  ye  shall  make  a  booth 
(during  the  whole  feast).  They  all  agree  that  if  the  Succah  falls, 
it  may  be  rebuilt.  Is  not  this  self-evident  ?  We  might  assume 
that  the  second  Succah  cannot  be  made  for  seven  days,  and 
therefore  shall  not  be  made  at  all.  He  comes  to  teach  us  that  it 
is  not  so. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Eliezer  said :  As  a  man 
cannot  fulful  his  duty  with  a  Lulab  belonging  to  his  neighbor  on 
the  first  day,  as  it  is  written  [Lev.  xxiii.  40]  :  ''  And  ye  shall  take 
unto  yourselves  on  the  first  day  the  fruit  of  the  tree  hadar, 
branches  of  palm  trees,"  etc. — ''unto  yourselves,"  that  means, 
your  own,  but  not  those  belonging  to  your  neighbor ;  so  also  a 
man  cannot  fulfil  his  duty  in  a  Succah  belonging  to  his  neighbor. 


TRACT    SUCCAH. 


35 


because  it  is  written  :  "  Seven  days  shalt  thou  make  unto  thee  the 
feast  of  the  tabernacles,"  and  we  infer  from  *'  for  thee  "  it  shall 
be  thy  own.  The  sages,  however,  said  :  Although  it  was  said 
that  a  man  cannot  fulfil  his  duty  with  the  Lulab  of  his  neighbor, 
he  may  nevertheless  do  his  duty  of  Succah  in  the  neighbor's  Suc- 
cah,  because  it  is  written  [ibid.]  :  ''  All  that  are  Israelites  born 
shall  dwell  in  booths."  From  this  we  learn  that  all  Israelites  may 
sit  in  one  Succah.  But  how  will  the  sages  account  for  the  ex- 
pression "  unto  thee  "  ?  They  say  it  is  to  exclude  a  robbed  Suc- 
cah, but  a  borrowed  Succah  may  be  used. 

The  rabbis  taught  :  It  happened  once  to  R.  Ilai  that  he  came 
to  see  R.  Eliezer  his  Master  in  the  city  of  Lud  on  the  festival  ; 
and  the  latter  said  to  him  :  Ilai,  thou  art  not  of  those  who  rest 
on  the  festival,  because  R.  Eliezer  used  to  say :  I  praise  the  slug- 
gards, who  do  not  go  out  on  the  festival  from  the  house,  because 
it  is  written  [Deut.  xiv.  26]  :  '^  Thou  shalt  rejoice,  thou  and  thy 
household."  This  is  not  so  :  did  not  R.  Itz'hak  say  :  Whence  do 
we  know  that  a  man  must  visit  his  teacher  on  the  festival  ?  Be- 
cause it  is  written  [II  Kings,  iv.  23]  :  "  Wherefore  art  thou  going 
to  him  to-day  ?  It  is  neither  new  moon  nor  Sabbath  ?  "  From 
this  we  may  infer  that  on  a  new  moon  and  a  Sabbath  it  is  obliga- 
tory to  visit  one's  Master?  It  presents  no  difficulty:  If  one's 
Master  is  in  the  same  city,  where  one  can  go  and  return  the  same 
day,  he  must ;  but  not  otherwise. 

The  rabbis  taught  :  It  happened  once  that  R.  Eliezer  took 
his  rest  in  the  booth  of  Johanan  bar  Ilai  in  the  city  of  Kisri,  of 
Upper  Galilea,  according  to  others  in  Kisrion,  and  the  sun 
reached  the  Succah.  And  the  host  asked  R.  Eliezer :  Shall  I 
spread  a  sheet  on  it  ?  And  he  answered  :  There  was  not  one 
tribe  of  Israel  from  which  a  judge  did  not  descend."^  The  sun 
reached  the  middle  of  the  Succah,  and  he  asked  again  :  How  if  I 
should  spread  a  sheet  on  it  ?  And  he  answered  :  There  was  not 
one  tribe  of  Israel  from  which  prophets  have  not  descended,  and 

*  Rashi  explains  this  as  follows:  The  Judges  of  the  Book  of  Judges,  i.e.,  the 
Rulers  of  Israel  since  Joshua's  death  to  the  prophet  Samuel  :  From  the  tribe 
Ephraim  was  Joshua  ;  from  Benjamin,  Ehud  ;  Manasseh,  Gideon — that  is,  from 
the  children  of  Rachel.  Samson  was  of  Dan,  Barak  of  Kaddesh  was  of  Naphtali — 
Bilha's  children.  Ibzan,  or  Boaz,  from  Judah  ;  Eli  of  Levi,  Tola  from  Issachar, 
Elun  from  Zebulun  ;  Othniel,  Jephthah,  Shamgar,  Abdan — it  is  not  known  of  what 
tribes  they  were  descended.  From  the  tribes  of  Reuben,  Simeon,  Gad,  and  Asher, 
I  have  not  found,  says  Rashi,  explicitly  that  Judges  were  descended  from  them. 
But  it  may  be  the  Judges  whose  tribes  were  not  named  were  traditionally  said  to  be 
of  those, 


36  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  tribes  of  Judah  and  Benjamin  chose  kings  at  the  command 
of  the  prophets.  Finally  the  sun  reached  R.  Eliezer's  feet,  and 
Johanan  took  a  sheet  and  spread  it  over  the  Succah ;  and  R. 
Eliezer  took  his  garments  and  shouldered  them,  and  left  the 
booth.  This  was  not  because  he  did  not  want  to  teach  him  the 
law,  but  because  R.  Eliezer  never  decided  a  thing  which  he  had 
not  heard  from  his  Master.  But  how  could  R.  Eliezer  do  this  ? 
Did  he  not  himself  declare  that  a  man  must  not  go  out  from  one 
Succah  to  another  ?  They  answered  :  That  was  not  on  the  Feast 
of  Tabernacles  at  all ;  it  was  another  festival,  and  they  sat  in  the 
Succah  only  for  fresh  air.  But  did  not  R.  Eliezer  declare  :  I 
praise  the  sluggards  who  do  not  leave  on  a  festival  their  houses  ? 
It  was  not  on  a  festival ;  it  was  an  ordinary  Sabbath. 

The  rabbis  taught :  It  happened  with  R.  Eliezer  that  he  took 
rest  in  Upper  Galilea,  and  he  was  asked  thirty  Halakhoth  about 
the  law  of  Succah.  To  twelve  he  answered  :  So  I  have  heard; 
and  to  eighteen  he  answered :  I  did  not  hear  them.  R.  Jose  b. 
R.  Jehudah  says :  On  the  contrary,  to  eighteen  he  answered  :  I 
have  heard  ;  and  to  twelve :  I  have  not  heard.  And  they  asked 
him:  Are  all  your  decisions  only  from  what  you  have  heard? 
He  answered :  You  compelled  me  to  tell  you  one  thing  which  I 
had  not  heard  from  my  Masters.  That  is,  never  in  my  life  came 
a  man  to  the  house  of  learning  before  me  and  I  never  slept  in  the 
house  of  learning  a  long  or  a  short  time ;  I  never  left  a  man  in 
the  house  of  learning  when  I  went  away,  and  I  never  talk  about 
worldly  affairs,  and  I  never  decided  a  thing  which  I  had  not  heard 
from  my  Masters. 

It  was  said  of  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakai :  Never  in  his  life  did  he 
talk  of  worldly  affairs ;  he  never  walked  four  ells  without  study- 
ing the  Law  and  without  tefilin ;  he  was  never  anticipated  by  an- 
other in  turning  to  the  house  of  learning,  and  did  not  sleep  in  the 
house  of  learning  even  a  short  time ;  he  did  not  teach  about  the 
Law  in  dirty  alleys  ;  he  did  not  leave  a  man  in  the  house  of 
learning  when  he  went  away ;  he  was  never  to  be  found  silent, 
but  always  studying  aloud,  and  never  anybody  opened  the  door 
for  his  disciples  but  himself;  he  never  decided  a  thing  he  had  not 
heard  from  his  Master,  and  he  never  said  it  was  time  to  go  out  of 
the  house  of  learning  except  on  the  eves  of  Passover  and  on  the 
eves  of  the  Days  of  Atonement.  And  R.  Eliezer  his  disciple 
conducted  himself  similarly. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Hillel  the  Elder  had  eighty  disciples : 
thirty  of  them  were  worthy  that  the  Shekhina  should  rest  on 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  37 

them  as  on  Moses  our  Master ;  thirty  of  them  were  worthy  the 
sun  should  be  stopped  for  their  sake,  as  it  did  before  Joshua 
the  son  of  Nun,  and  twenty  were  mediocre.  The  greatest  of  all 
the  disciples  was  Jonathan  b.  Uziel,  the  least  of  all  was  R. 
Johanan  b.  Zakai.  It  was  said  of  the  latter,  that  he  did  not  leave 
out  the  Bible,  the  Mishna,  the  Gemara,  Halakhoth,  and  Agadoth 
(legends),  the  observations  of  the  Bible,  observations  of  the 
Scribes,  lenient  ones  and  vigorous  ones,  the  analogies  of  expres- 
sion, equinoxes,  geometries,  the  language  of  the  angels  and  the 
language  of  the  evil  spirits  and  the  language  of  the  trees,  the 
fables,  the  great  things,  the  heavenly  chariots  and  small  things, 
the  discussions  of  Abayi  and  Rabha,  to  confirm  what  is  written 
[Prov.  viii.  21]  :  '*  That  I  may  cause  those  that  love  me  to  inherit 
a  lasting  possession  and  their  treasures  will  I  fill."  And  when 
the  least  of  all  was  so,  how  much  the  more  was  the  greatest  of 
all.  It  was  said  of  Jonathan  b.  Uziel,  that  when  he  studied  the 
Law  every  bird  that  flew  over  him  was  burned. 

MISHNA:  If  the  head  and  greater  part  of  a  man's  body  is 
in  the  booth,  and  his  table  in  the  house,  Beth  Shammai  say  he 
has  not  fulfilled  the  duty  of  Succah,  but  Beth  Hillel  say  he  has. 
Said  Beth  Hillel  to  Beth  Shammai :  Did  it  not  happen  that  the 
elders  of  Beth  Shammai  and  those  of  Beth  Hillel  visited  R. 
Johanan  b.  Hahoronith,  and  found  him  sitting  with  his  head  and 
greater  part  of  his  body  in  the  booth,  and  his  table  was  in  the 
house  ?  and  they  said  to  him  nothing.  Beth  Shammai  replied : 
Do  you  adduce  this  as  a  proof?  They  said  to  him  :  If  such  has 
always  been  your  custom,  you  have  never  in  your  life  properly 
fulfilled  the  duty  of  Succah. 

Women,  slaves,  and  minors  are  exempt  from  the  Succah.  A 
boy  that  needs  no  longer  the  nursing  of  his  mother  must  obey 
the  command  of  Succah.  It  happened  that  the  daughter-in-law 
of  Shammai  the  Elder  gave  birth  to  a  son  on  the  festival,  so  he 
caused  the  roof  to  be  taken  off,  and  covered  it  as  a  Succah  for 
the  sake  of  the  infant. 

GEMARA  :  Whence  is  all  this  deduced  ?  From  what  the  rab- 
bis taught :  The  verse  could  say  Ezrah  (''  an  Israelite  born  ").  That 
would  include  the  women.  But  it  is  written  Ha  ezrah,  ''the 
Israelites  born,"  which  means  the  certain  Israelites,  and  to  ex- 
clude women.  And  by  the  word  *'  all "  it  is  meant  to  include 
minors.  Shall  we  assume  that  the  expression  "  Israelites  born  " 
includes  women  also  ?  Did  not  we  learn  in  a  Boraitha  (concern- 
ing the  Day  of  Atonement),  where  it  is  written,  *'  the  Israelite 


38  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

born,"  which  means  to  include  women,  for  whom  it  is  as  obliga- 
tory to  fast  as  for  males?  From  this  we  see  that  when  it  is 
written,  ''  Israelites  born,"  only  males  are  meant  ?  Said  Rabha  : 
That  is  not  deduced  from  the  passages,  but  it  is  all  Sinaic,  and 
the  passages  were  taken  as  a  support.  But  which  passage,  and 
which  Sinaic  law?  And,  again,  to  what  purpose  was  a  verse  or  a 
Sinaic  law  needed  at  all?  Is  not  the  Succah  a  commandment 
dependent  on  a  certain  season,  and  from  all  commands  depend- 
ing on  certain  seasons  women  are  free  ?  This  is  concerning  Suc- 
cah ;  and  concerning  the  Day  of  Atonement  this  is  deduced  from 
what  R.  Jehudah  says  in  the  name  of  Rabh ;  and  so  also  taught 
the  disciples  of  R.  Ishmael.  It  is  written  [Num.  v.  6]  :  "  If  any 
man  or  woman  commit  a  sin."  From  this  we  see  that  the  verse 
made  the  man  and  the  woman  equal  in  all  penalties  of  the  Torah. 
Said  Abayi :  That  a  woman  is  exempt  from  the  Succah  is  a 
Sinaic  law,  and  nevertheless  this  support  of  a  verse  was  needed, 
because  one  might  say  it  is  written,  "  Ye  shall  dwell "  ;  and  as  in 
a  dwelling  are  usually  a  man  and  wife,  we  might  think  that  in 
the  Succah  there  should  also  be  a  man  and  wife,  it  comes  to  teach 
us  that  it  is  not  so.  Rabha  said  :  It  is  needed  lest  one  say,  by 
an  analogy  of  expression,  it  is  written  about  Passover  on  the 
fifteenth,  and  here,  as  on  Passover,  it  is  obligatory  for  women,  so 
it  is  also  on  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  it  comes  to  teach  us  that 
it  is  not  so.  Now,  when  you  say  there  is  a  Sinaic  law,  why  is 
the  passage  needed  ?  It  comes  to  include  the  proselytes ;  one 
might  say  the  Israelites  born,  but  not  a  proselyte,  we  are  taught 
that  they  also  are  included.  But  the  Day  of  Atonement,  that  is 
inferred  from  the  above  saying  of  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of 
Rabh.  Why  is  the  Sinaic  law  here  needed  ?  This  is  needed 
for  the  addition  to  the  Day  of  Atonement  from  the  preceding 
day,  which  is  biblical,  but  has  no  capital  punishment.  One 
might  say  that  because  the  addition  has  no  punishment,  the 
women  are  exempt ;  the  Sinaic  law  comes  to  say  it  is  not  so. 

The  Master  says  :  ^//,  to  include  the  minors.  But  have  we  not 
learned  in  our  Mishna,  that  women,  slaves,  minors,  are  free  from 
Succah?  This  presents  no  difficulty  :  The  Mishna  means  a  case 
in  which  the  minor  is  not  yet  old  enough  to  be  trained  in  a  relig- 
ious duty,  and  the  Boraitha  means  a  case  of  a  minor  old  enough 
for  that.  But  in  case  of  a  minor  who  has  reached  such  an  age, 
the  duty  is  only  rabbinical  ?  Yea,  the  passage  is  taken  only  as  a 
support. 

''A  minor  that  needs  not  the  mir  sing  of  his  mother  T     What  is 


TRACT    SUCCAH. 


39 


meant  by  this  ?  A  minor  whe  can  obey  the  call  of  nature  with- 
out the  aid  of  his  mother.  So  said  the  disciples  of  R.  Yanai. 
But  Resh  Lakish  said  :  A  child  that  on  awakening  does  not  cry : 
Mother !  mother ! 

**  It  happened  that  the  daughter-in-law  of  Sham  mat,''  etc.  Is 
not  this  act  a  contradiction  to  the  former  teaching?  The  Mishna 
is  not  completed.  It  must  be  read  so  :  ''  And  Shammai  the  Elder 
is  more  rigorous,  and  it  happened  also  that  his  daughter-in-law 
gave  birth  to  a  son,  so  he  caused  the  roof  to  be  removed,  and 
covered  it  as  a  Succah  for  the  sake  of  the  infant." 

MISHNA:  During  the  seven  days  of  the  festival  one  must 
use  the  booth  as  the  regular  domicile,  and  the  house  only  as  an 
occasional  abode.  If  it  rains,  when  is  he  permitted  to  remove 
from  the  Succah  }  When  a  mess  of  porridge  has  been  spoiled. 
The  elders  illustrate  this  by  a  comparison  :  What  does  such  a  cir- 
cumstance resemble  ?  As  if  a  servant  presented  a  goblet  to  his 
master,  who  throws  a  bowl  full  in  his  face. 

GEMARA :  The  rabbis  taught :  All  the  seven  days  one 
must  use  the  booth  as  one's  regular  domicile.  How  so  ?  If  he 
has  fine  utensils,  he  shall  place  them  in  the  Succah ;  if  he  has  fine 
bedding,  he  should  transfer  it  to  the  Succah ;  and  he  should  eat, 
and  drink,  and  walk  only  in  the  Succah.  Whence  is  this  deduced  ? 
From  what  the  rabbis  taught  :  It  is  written  :  "  Ye  shall  dwell "  ; 
it  means,  it  shall  be  as  a  regular  dwelling,  and  from  this  was  de- 
duced that  all  the  seven  days  one  shall  make  the  Succah  his  reg- 
ular dwelling,  and  his  house  a  temporary  one.  He  shall  eat, 
drink,  and  study  in  the  Succah.  Is  it  so  ?  Did  not  Rabha  say 
that  only  to  read  the  Bible  and  to  learn  a  Mishna  one  may  in  the 
Succah,  but  study  one  may  not  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty. 
The  Boraitha  means  to  repeat  what  he  had  studied  already,  and 
Rabha — to  study  something  new,  as  Rabha  and  Rami,  while 
studying  under  R.  Hisda,  used  to  repeat  his  lecture  among  them- 
selves first,  and  afterwards  tried  to  find  out  the  reasons  of  it. 
Rabha  said  :  The  vessels  for  drinking  shall  be  kept  in  the  Suc- 
cah ;  but  the  vessels  for  eating,  outside.  A  pitcher  of  clay, 
outside  of  the  Succah,  a  candlestick  of  clay  in  the  Succah,  and 
according  to  others,  outside,  and  they  do  not  differ ;  it  means,  in 
a  large  Succah  it  may ;  in  a  small  one,  it  may  not,  because  it  is 
dangerous. 

''  If  it  rains^  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  :  When  a  mess 
of  gris  is  spoiled  (which  is  spoiled  easily). 

Abayi  was  sitting  in  the  presence  of  R.  Joseph  in  the  Succah, 


40  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Succah,  and  a  wind  blew  the  chips  from  the  covering  into  the  dish, 
and  R.  Joseph  said :  Take  off  the  dishes,  and  we  will  go  out. 
Said  Abayi  to  him :  Have  we  not  learned  in  the  Mishna :  Till 
the  porridge  is  spoiled  ?  And  he  answered  :  As  I  am  delicate, 
the  chips  do  me  as  great  harm. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  ate  in  the  Succah  and  rain  fell,  and 
he  went  away  and  took  his  meal  in  the  house,  when  it  clears  again 
we  do  not  trouble  him  to  interrupt  his  meal,  and  to  go  back  to 
the  Succah.  If  he  was  sleeping  in  the  Succah  and  it  rained,  and 
he  went  away  to  sleep  in  the  house,  he  is  not  aroused  when  it 
clears  again,  till  the  next  morning. 

"  What  does  such  a  circumstance  resemble  ?  "  The  schoolmen 
asked :  What  is  meant  by  this  ?  Come  and  hear.  We  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha :  As  if  the  master  threw  the  pitcher  into 
the  servant's  face,  and  said  to  him :  I  do  not  want  your  service 
more. 

The  rabbis  taught :  An  eclipse  of  the  sun  is  an  ill  omen  to  the 
whole  world.  What  does  this  resemble  ?  A  human  king  making 
a  banquet  for  his  servants,  and  placing  a  great  lantern  before 
them,  when  he  gets  angry  he  says  to  his  servant :  Take  away  the 
light,  let  them  sit  in  the  dark. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Meir  said :  When  the  sun 
and  the  moon  are  eclipsed,  it  is  a  bad  sign  to  the  enemies  of  the 
Israelites  (meaning,  the  Israelites  themselves),  because  they  are 
used  to  troubles :  it  is  equal  to  the  teacher's  coming  to  the  school 
with  his  whip  in  his  hand.  Who  is  more  afraid  ?  The  child  used 
to  being  beaten.  This  is  the  case  when  Israel  do  not  do  the  will 
of  the  Creator ;  but  when  they  do,  they  need  not  fear  anything,  as 
it  is  written  [Jeremiah,  x.  82]  :  "■  Thus  hath  said  the  Lord  :  Do  not 
habituate  yourselves  in  the  way  of  the  nations,  and  at  the  signs 
of  the  heavens  be  ye  not  dismayed  ;  although  the  nations  should 
be  dismayed  at  them." 

The  rabbis  taught :  On  account  of  the  following  four  things 
the  sun  becomes  eclipsed  :  When  a  chief  judge  dies,  and  is  not 
lamented  becomingly ;  when  a  betrothed  virgin  calls  for  help  in 
the  town,  and  is  not  aided ;  unnatural  vice ;  when  two  brothers 
are  killed  on  the  same  day;  and  on  account  of  the  following  four 
things  both  the  sun  and  the  moon  are  eclipsed  :  Forgery,  false 
witness,  when  fruit-bearing  trees  are  cut  out,  and  when  sheep  and 
goats  are  kept  in  Palestine.  On  account  of  four  things  the  prop- 
erty of  householders  is  transferred  (confiscated)  to  the  govern- 
ment :  When  paid  notes  are  kept ;  usury ;  and  when  men  had  the 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  41 

power  to  prevent,  but  would  not ;  and  when  charity  was  promised 
to  the  people,  and  was  not  given.  Rabh  said  :  For  four  things  the 
property  of  householders  becomes  annihilated  :  When  they  keep 
workers,  and  do  not  pay  them  in  time ;  for  robbing  them  ;  when 
the  strangers  free  themselves  from  the  yokes  on  their  necks  and 
put  them  on  their  neighbors'  necks;  and  for  arrogance.  And 
arrogance  is  the  worst  of  all.  But  of  those  who  are  modest  is 
written  [Ps.  xxxvii.  11]:  '^  But  the  meek  shall  inherit  the  land, 
and  shall  delight  themselves  because  of  the  abundance  of  peace." 


CHAPTER  III. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  PALM  BRANCHES,  MYRTLES,  WILLOWS, 
AND  CITRONS  USED  ON  THE  FIRST  DAY  OF  THE  FEAST  OF 
TABERNACLES. 

MISHNA:  A  palm  branch*  which  has  been  acquired  by 
theft,  or  which  is  dried,  is  not  vaHd.  One  which  comes  from  a 
grove  (devoted  to  idolatry)  or  from  a  rejected  town  f  is  not  valid  ; 
if  the  point  has  been  broken  off,  or  the  leaves  torn  off,  it  is  not 
valid  ;  if  they  are  only  dissevered,  it  is  valid.  R.  Jehudah  says  : 
It  must  be  tied  together  at  the  top.  A  palm  branch  from  the 
Iron  Mount  f  is  valid.  A  palm  branch  that  is  three  spans  long, 
sufficient  to  shake  it  by,  is  valid. 

GEMARA :  The  Mishna  does  not  mention  on  which  day  it  is 
valid,  and  on  which  not ;  and  from  this  we  can  infer  that  it  is 
invalid  even  for  the  second  day.  This  would  be  right  only  in 
case  of  a  dried  one,  because  it  is  written  hadar,  which  means 
''  beauty,"  which  a  dried  one  has  not ;  but  a  robbed  one — that  is 
prohibited  only  because  it  must  be  his  own,  as  stated  above  (p. 
34) — but  on  the  second  day,  which  is  wholly  rabbinical,  why 
should  it  be  invalid?  Said  R.  Johanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon 
b.  Jochi :  Because  it  is  a  religious  duty  that  is  performed  by  a  sin. 
R.  Johanan  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority :  It  is 
written  [Is.  Ixi.  8]  :  ''  For  I,  the  Lord,  love  justice :  I  hate  rob- 
bery with  burnt-offering."  It  resembles  a  human  king  who  passed 
the  custom-house  and  said  to  his  servants :  ''  Pay  the  duty  to  the 
officers "  ;  and  the  servants  said  to  him :  "  Why  shall  we  give 
duties?  All  the  duties  are  thine";  and  he  said:  "All  pas- 
sengers shall  learn  it  from  me,  and  shall  not  shirk  to  pay  their 
duty."  So  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  said  :  ''  I,  the  Lord, 
hate  robbery  with  a  burnt-offering '  :  of  me  shall  my  children 
learn,  and  avoid  robbery. 

It  was  taught  also  in  the  name  of  R.  Ami :  A  withered  one 

*Lev.  xxiii.  40.  f  Deut.  xiii.  I2. 

X  A  mountain  near  Jerusalem,  southward,  the  palm  branches  of  which  were  very 
short. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  43 

is  invalid,  because  it  has  no  beauty  ;  and  a  robbed  one  is  invalid, 
because  it  is  a  religious  duty  done  by  a  sin. 

R.  Huna  said  to  the  sellers  of  the  myrtles:  If  you  buy  myr- 
tles from  the  heathen,  do  not  cut  them  off  yourselves,  but  let 
themselves  cut  off,  and  give  them  to  you.  Why  so  ?  Because 
most  heathen  have  robbed  the  ground  from  the  Israelites,  and 
the  robber  is  not  considered  the  owner  of  the  ground,  even  when 
the  original  owner  has  despaired  of  it  (but  the  law  is  different 
about  movable  property).  And  therefore,  if  you  will  cut  off  your- 
selves, that  will  be  as  taking  a  robbed  thing ;  but  when  they  cut 
off,  and  as  the  original  owners  have  despaired,  the  cut-off  myrtle 
boughs  become  theirs,  and  you  may  buy  them. 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  robbed  Succah  or  a  roof  made  in  a 
public  street,  R.  Eliezer  makes  invalid,  but  the  sage,  make  it 
valid.  Said  R.  Na'hman  :  They  differ  only  when  the  ground  on 
which  the  Succah  is  built  belongs  to  his  neighbor,  and  he  put  out 
the  neighbor  and  took  the  Succah  to  himself.  This  is  according 
to  R.  Eliezer's  theory,  who  said  that  one  cannot  fulfil  his  duty  in 
his  neighbor's  Succah.  It  is  invalid  in  any  case.  According  to 
those  who  say  that  the  robber  of  ground  is  considered  the  owner 
of  it,  after  the  original  owner  has  despaired,  it  is  a  robbed  Succah  ; 
and  even  according  to  those  who  say  that  he  can  never  become 
the  owner  of  the  ground,  it  is  nevertheless  a  borrowed  Succah 
(because  it  is  not  a  robbed  one).  But  the  sages  hold  to  their 
theory  that  one  can  fulfil  his  duty  in  a  borrowed  Succah,  and 
also  that  ground  cannot  be  robbed  ;  therefore  it  is  valid,  because 
it  is  considered  as  a  borrowed  Succah.  But  if  one  has  robbed 
wood,  and  made  a  roof,  according  to  all,  the  owner  of  the  wood 
has  only  to  claim  his  money,  but  the  wood  becomes  the  property 
of  the  robber,  and  the  Succah  is  valid.  And  he  infers  this  from 
the  expression  of  the  Mishna,  ''  a  robbed  Succah  or  a  roof  made 
in  public  ground,"  as  in  the  latter  case  the  ground  was  certainly 
not  his,  so  also  the  robbed  Succah  means,  that  the  ground  was 
also  not  his  and  he  has  robbed  it. 

It  happened  once  that  an  old  woman  came  to  R.  Na'hman 
and  said  :  The  exilarch,  and  all  the  sages  of  the  house  of  the 
exilarch,  are  sitting  in  a  robbed  Succah.  She  complained,  but 
he  did  not  answer  her.  Said  she  again  :  A  woman  whose  father 
had  three  hundred  and  eighteen  slaves  complains  before  you,  and 
you  do  not  pay  attention.  R.  Na'hman  said  to  the  sages :  The 
woman  is  only  a  prattler :  she  has  to  claim  only  the  money  for  the 
v.'ood  that  has  been  taken  for  the  use  of  the  Succah. 


44  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Rabhina  said :  If  a  beam  of  the  roof  of  a  Succah  has  been 
robbed,  the  sages  have  arranged  that  only  money  for  it  should 
be  returned  to  the  owner,  and  not  the  beam  itself.  Is  this  not 
self-evident  ?  What  is  the  difference  between  a  beam  and  wood, 
as  just  mentioned  above  ?  One  might  say  wood  can  be  found  in 
any  place,  and  one  can  buy  it  for  the  money ;  but  a  beam,  which 
is  not  so  common,  should  be  returned.  They  come  to  teach  us 
that  during  the  seven  days  of  the  festival,  one  can  lay  claim  only 
to  money,  but  after  the  festival  it  must  be  returned,  provided  one 
has  not  attached  it  with  clay ;  but  if  one  has,  even  after  the  seven 
days  only  the  money  shall  be  given. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  A  withered  palm  branch  is 
invalid,  but  R.  Jehudah  makes  it  valid.  Said  Rabha  :  They  differ 
only  about  a  Lulab  that  is  rabbinical.  The  sages  hold  that  we 
compare  a  Lulab  to  a  citron  :  as  the  citron  must  be  beautiful,  be- 
cause it  is  written  hadar  (beauty),  so  the  Lulab  must  be  beauti- 
ful ;  and  R.  Jehudah  does  not  hold  this  theory,  and  says  that  a 
Lulab  need  not  be  beautiful,  but  a  withered  citron,  according  to 
all,  is  invalid.  Does  R.  Jehudah  require  that  a  citron  shall  be 
beautiful  ?  Did  we  not  learn  in  a  Boraitha  :  The  four  kinds  that 
are  with  the  Lulab,  as  there  must  not  be  less,  so  nothing  shall  be 
added  to  them  ?  If  one  did  not  find  a  citron,  he  cannot  replace 
it  with  a  lemon  or  a  pomegranate,  or  anything  else ;  and  if  they  are 
withered  they  are  valid,  but  if  dried,  then  invalid.  R.  Jehudah, 
however,  said :  Even  when  dry,  they  are  valid.  And  he  says 
again :  The  inhabitants  of  great  cities  used  to  transmit  their 
Lulabs  to  their  grandchildren.  And  they  answered  him  :  This 
cannot  prove,  because  the  places  where  such  things  are  rarities  do 
not  prove.  Hence  we  see  that  R.  Jehudah  said  that  even  dry 
ones  are  valid,  and  this  includes  also  citrons?  Nay,  R.  Jehudah 
meant  only  the  Lulab  when  he  said  dry  ones  are  valid. 

The  text  says :  "  If  he  cannot  find  a  citron,  he  shall  not  re- 
place it  with  a  lemon,"  etc.  Is  not  this  self-evident  ?  One  might 
say,  he  shall  replace  it  with  something,  lest  the  command  of  a 
citron  should  be  forgotten  :  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  if  it  would 
be  done  so,  the  later  generations  might  use  such  things  forever. 
Come  and  hear  :  An  old  citron  is  invalid,  but  R.  Jehudah  says  it  is 
valid.  Is  this  not  a  contradiction  to  the  saying  of  Rabha  *  above, 
that  R.  Jehudah  meant  only  the  Lulab,  and  not  a  citron  ?  Yea,  it  is 


*  The  name  of  Rabha  is  not  mentioned  above,  but  it  must  have  been  known  to 
him  that  Rabha  said  so. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  45 

a  contradiction.  But  how  can  R.  Jehudah  say  that  an  old  one  is 
vaHd?  Is  it  not  written  hadar  (beautiful)?  R.  Jehudah  explains 
the  word  hadar'*'  not  to  mean  "beauty,"  but  ''dwelling";  that 
means,  a  fruit  which  dwells  on  its  tree  the  whole  year. 

''  If  the  point  was  broken  off^  Said  R.  Huna  :  If  it  is  broken 
off ;  but  if  it  is  only  split,  it  is  valid.  But  have  we  not  learned 
in  a  Boraitha :  A  bristly  Lulab  or  one  crooked  like  a  scythe,  a 
split  one,  a  hardened  one,  is  invalid.  But  if  it  seems  hardened, 
and  in  reality  is  not,  it  is  valid.  Hence  we  see  that  a  split  one 
is  also  invalid?  Said  R.  Papa:  By  "  split "  is  here  meant  one 
growing  as  a  fork,  into  two  different  directions.  ''  Crooked  like 
a  scythe,"  said  Rabha ;  ''  that  is  only  if  it  is  bent  forward,  but  if 
backward  it  is  natural,  and  it  is  valid."  Said  R.  Na'hman  :  If 
bent  sideways,  it  is  as  if  forward.  According  to  others,  R. 
Na'hman  says  it  is  as  if  bent  backward.  Rabha  said  again  :  A 
Lulab  that  has  all  the  leaves  on  one  side,  and  on  the  other  side 
none  at  all,  is  blemished  and  is  invalid. 

'' If  the  leaves  were  torn  off!'  Said  R.  Papa:  By  torn  ofT  is 
meant  that  it  is  made  like  a  broom.  What  is  meant  by  dissev- 
ered ?  When  the  leaves  grow  as  branches  of  a  tree,  in  different 
directions. 

R.  Papa  put  a  question  :  If  the  ''  twins  "  of  the  Lulab  are 
divided,  how  is  the  law  (the  double  leaves  on  a  palm  branch  are 
called  ''twins")?  Come  and  hear:  R.  Mathun  in  the  name  of 
R.  Joshuah  b.  Levi  said  :  If  the  "  twins  "  are  divided,  it  is  as  if 
the  leaves  were  torn  off,  and  it  is  invalid. 

'' R.  Jehudah  says,'' eiz.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha: 
R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Tarphon  :  The  expression 
"  branches  of  palm  trees  "  is  Kapoth  Tmarim.  As  the  word  ka- 
poth  signifies  in  Aramaic  "  bound,"  "  tied,"  if  the  Lulab  was 
separated,  it  must  be  tied  together.  Said  Rabhina  to  R.  Ashi : 
How  is  it  known  that  by  Kapoth  Tmarim  is  meant  a  young 
Lulab  that  has  been  the  first  year  on  the  tree  ?  Perhaps  the 
branches  are  meant  when  they  are  two  or  three  years  old,  when 
the  leaves  spread  on  all  sides  ?  We  require  that  they  shall  be 
tied  together,  and  in  that  case  they  cannot  be  tied  at  all. 

"^  Lulab  from  the  Iron  Mounts  Said  Abayi  :  The  case  is 
only  when  the  top  of  one  reaches  the  lower  part  of  the  one  that 
grows  over  it ;  but  if  not,  they  are  invalid. 

*  The  word  hadar  in  Hebrew  has  two  meanings  :  ' '  Beauty  "  ;  and  dar  means 
"  dwelling  "  (see  Ps.  Ixxxiv.  11).    Hence  R.  Jehudah  explains  this  in  the  latter  sense. 


46  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  A  Lulab  three  spans  long^  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name 
of  Samuel :  The  prescribed  size  for  a  myrtle  bough  and  willow  is 
three  spans,  and  of  the  Lulab  four,  so  that  the  Lulab  shall  be 
one  span  higher  than  the  myrtle  bough  and  willow  when  they 
are  tied.  R.  Parnach  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said  :  (Not 
the  leaves,  but)  the  back  of  the  Lulab,  should  be  one  span  higher. 
Come  and  hear:  The  prescribed  size  of  a  myrtle  bough  and 
willow  is  three  spans,  of  a  Lulab  four  spans  :  is  it  not  meant 
with  the  leaves?  Nay,  it  is  meant,  besides  the  leaves.  The 
Boraitha  says  farther  on  :  R.  Tarphon  says :  It  shall  be  measured 
with  an  ell  of  five  spans.  Said  Rabha  :  May  the  Lord  forgive  R. 
Tarphon  for  such  teaching :  A  myrtle  bough  of  three  spans  is  not 
to  be  found,  and  he  calls  for  a  myrtle  bough  of  the  length  of  five 
spans.  When  Rabbin  came  from  Palestine,  he  said  that  R. 
Tarphon  meant  to  say  so  :  An  ell  which  was  five  spans,  consider 
it  as  if  it  was  six  spans,  and  three  spans  of  this  take  off  for  the 
myrtle  bough,  and  the  remainder,  which  is  about  two  and  a  half, 
for  the  Lulab.  If  it  is  so,  then  it  is  a  contradiction  to  Samuel, 
for  according  to  R.  Tarphon  the  myrtle  bough  would  be  only 
two  and  a  half  spans,  and  Samuel  said  it  must  be  three  spans? 
Samuel  was  not  particular  in  his  decision,  and  said  more  rigor- 
ously, three.  But,  nevertheless,  R.  Huna  says  in  his  name  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Tarphon. 

MISHNA :  A  myrtle  bough  which  has  been  acquired  by 
theft,  or  which  is  dry,  is  not  valid.  One  which  comes  from  a 
grove  or  from  a  rejected  town  is  invalid.  If  the  tip  has  been 
broken  off,  or  the  leaves  torn  off,  or  if  one  has  on  it  more  berries 
than  leaves,  it  is  invalid ;  if  the  berries  are  diminished  in  num- 
ber it  becomes  vahd,  but  this  must  not  be  done  on  the  festival. 
A  willow  of  the  brook,  which  has  been  acquired  by  theft,  or 
which  is  dry,  is  invalid.  One  which  comes  from  a  grove,  or 
a  rejected  town,  is  not  valid.  If  the  point  has  been  broken  off, 
or  the  leaves  torn  off,  or  if  it  be  a  Tzaphtzapka,^  it  is  invalid. 
One  which  is  faded,  or  from  which  some  leaves  have  dropped 
off,  or  which  has  grown  on  dry  ground  (not  near  a  bank),  is 
valid. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  written:  ''Boughs  of 
the  myrtle  tree  "  ;  that  is,  a  tree  whose  branches  cover  the  whole 
tree,  and  this  is  only  a  myrtle  tree.  Rabha  said  :  We  take  a 
myrtle  bough  because  it  is  written  [Zechariah,  viii.  19]  :  "  Only 

*  The  Geraara  will  explain  the  term. 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  47" 

love  ye  the  truth  and  peace  "  (as  a  myrtle  is  an  emblem  of  peace 
and  love,  therefore  we  take  it  on  the  festival).* 

The  rabbis  taup-ht :  A  branch  that  is  twined  like  a  chain,  that 
is  the  myrtle.  R,  Eliezer  b.  Jacob  says :  It  is  written  :  "  The 
branch  of  a  twined  tree."  That  means,  a  tree  whose  trunk  and 
fruit  have  the  same  taste,  and  that  is  a  myrtle.  In  a  Boraitha  we 
have  learned  :  A  branch  that  is  twined,  is  valid  ;  if  not,  it  is  in- 
valid. What  is  meant  by  twined?  Said  R.  Jehudah  :  On  each 
stem  are  three  leaves.  R.  Kahna  however,  says :  Even  if  on  one 
stem  are  two,  and  on  the  other  one,  it  is  also  reckoned  three.  R. 
A'ha  the  son  of  Rabha  was  looking  for  a  myrtle  bough  which  had 
two  and  one  and  two  and  one  because  this  has  been  announced 
by  R.  Kahna.  Said  Mar  bar  Amemar  to  R.  Ashi :  My  father 
calls  such  a  myrtle  a  wild  myrtle. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  the  greater  number  of  leaves  have 
dropped,  and  on  three  stems  they  remained,  it  is  valid.  The 
rabbis  taught :  If  the  greater  part  of  the  leaves  on  the  bough 
have  dried  up  and  only  three  twigs,  each  containing  three  leaves, 
remained,  it  is  valid.  Said  R.  Hisda,  provided  that  the  remainder 
are  on  the  top  of  each. 

"  1/  the  tip  has  been  broken  off!'  UUa  bar  Hinna  taught:  If 
the  tip  has  been  broken  off,  and  in  its  place  is  a  green  fruit  like  a 
date  (Rashi  explains  this,  that  on  the  top  of  a  myrtle  there  happen 
to  be  green  fruits,  with  which  women  paint  their  vails),  it  is  valid. 
R.  Jeremiah  put  a  question  :  If  the  tip  had  been  broken  off  on  the 
eve  of  the  festival,  and  this  green  fruit  grew  up  on  the  festival,  how 
is  the  law  ?  Shall  it  be  said  that,  because  it  was  not  fit  on  the 
eve,  it  has  been  rejected,  and  cannot  be  used  any  more ;  or,  the 
law  of  rejecting  does  not  apply  to  religious  duties?  This  question 
is  not  decided.  Shall  we  assume  that  this  is  a  point  of  difference 
between  the  following  Tanaim  :  We  have  learned  :  If  one  has 
transgressed,  and  cut  off  the  berries  on  the  festival,  it  is  invalid, 
according  to  R.  Elazer  b.  R.  Zodok ;  but  according  to  the  sages 
it  is  vahd?  Must  we  not  assume  that  he  who  says  it  is  invalid 
does  it  because  he  holds  the  law  of  rejecting  applies  to  religious 
duties,  and  as  this  branch  with  the  berries  was  rejected  on  the 
eve  of  the  festival,  it  was  rejected  for  the  whole  festival,  and  he 
who  says  it  is  valid  does  so  because  he  holds  that  the  law  of 
rejecting  does  not  apply  to  religious  duties?     Nay,  all  agree  that 

♦Rashi  explains  it  in  another  manner,  which  is  complicated.  We,  however, 
think  that  our  explanation  is  right. 


48  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  law  of  rejecting  applies  to  the  positive  commandments  of  re- 
ligious duties,  but  in  this  case  they  differ  whether  a  Lulab  must 
be  tied  or  not,  as  on  this  point  differ  the  Tanaim  of  the  following 
Boraitha :  A  Lulab,  whether  tied  or  not,  is  valid.  R.  Jehudah, 
however,  said  :  A  tied  one  is  valid  ;  if  not,  it  is  invahd.  What  is 
the  reason  of  R.  Jehudah?  He  infers  it  from  an  analogy  of 
expression.  It  is  written  here  [Lev.  xxiii.  40]  :  ''  Ye  shall  take 
unto  yourselves  on  the  first  day,"  and  [in  Ex.  xii.  22]  *'  and  ye 
shall  take  a  bunch  of  hyssop  ";  as  there  it  is  plainly  written  a  bunch, 
so  also  here  it  must  be  tied  as  a  bunch,  and  the  sages  do  not 
take  into  consideration  this  analogy  of  expression.  * 

''//one  has  more  berries  on  it  than  leaves!'  R.  Hisda  said: 
The  following  thing  said  our  great  rabbi  {i.e.,  Rabh),  and  the 
Lord  come  to  his  help  :  The  case  is  only  if  it  was  in  one  place, 
but  if  the  berries  were  in  two  or  three  places,  then  it  is  valid. 
Said  Rabha  to  him  :  If  it  was  in  two  or  three  places,  it  seems 
spotted,  and  it  is  invahd  ?  Therefore  if  such  a  thing  was  taught, 
it  was  taught  thus,  said  R.  Hisda :  The  following  thing  our  great 
rabbi  said,  and  may  God  come  to  his  help  :  The  case  is  only 
when  the  berries  were  black ;  but  if  they  were  green,  they  are  the 
same  as  the  myrtle  bough,  and  it  is  valid. 

''  If  they  have  been  diminished  ifi  number !'  etc.  They  have 
been  diminished  in  number  when  ?  If  before  it  was  tied,  it  is 
self-evident,  and  if  after  it  was  tied,  then  it  was  rejected  for  the 
festival,  and  how  made  good  ?  Infer  from  this  that  the  law  of 
rejecting  does  not  apply  to  religious  duties !  Nay,  we  can  say 
that  the  case  is  even  after  it  had  been  tied,  but  the  Tana  of  the 
Mishna  holds  that  the  tying  is  not  considered  a  construction,  but 
only  a  preparation,  and  does  not  therefore  count  it. 

The  rabbis  taught :  They  must  not  be  diminished  in  number 
on  the  festival.  In  the  name  of  R.  Eliezer  bar  Simeon,  however, 
it  was  said  :  It  may  be  done.  But  is  not  this  like  repairing  a 
utensil  on  the  festival  ?  Said  R.  Ashi :  R.  Eliezer  means  to  say, 
that  if  he  took  off  the  berries  for  the  purpose  of  eating,  and  he 
holds  as  his  father,  that  a  thing  which  was  done  unintentionally 
is  allowed. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  the  binding  oi  the  Lulab  was  loosened 
on  the  festival,  one  shall  tie  it  as  he  usually  ties  a  bundle  of  herbs. 
Why?  Let  him  tie  it  into  a  loop  (not  a  knot).  That  is  according 
to  R.  Jehudah,  who  said  in  Sabbath  (p.  233),  that  tying  into  a  loop 

*  See  page  14,  lines  32-37,  beginning  "  But  according,"  etc.,  which  also  belong 
here. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  49 

is  like  a  knot,  for  either  is  culpable.  But  according  to  R.  Jehu- 
dah  the  Lulab  must  be  tied  not  as  a  bundle  of  herbs,  but  in  a 
good  knot  ?  This  Tana  holds  as  R.  Jehudah  in  one  thing,  and 
differs  from  him  in  the  other. 

"  A  ivillow  of  the  brook,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught :  It  is  written  : 
"  A  willow  of  the  brook."  That  means,  they  usually  grow  near 
every  brook.  According  to  others,  the  willow  of  the  brook  means 
that  it  has  leaves  smooth  as  a  brook.  In  another  Boraitha  we 
have  learned  :  The  willows  of  the  brook !  Whence  do  we  deduce 
that  willows  from  dry  ground  and  mountains  are  valid  ?  It  is 
written  '^  willows,"  in  the  plural:  all  are  included.  Abba  Shaul, 
however,  said :  The  plural  signifies  that  two  are  needed  :  one  for 
the  Lulab  and  one  for  the  Temple.  And  whence  do  the  rabbis 
deduce  that  one  for  the  Temple  ?  They  hold  it  is  Sinaic  (as  will 
be  explained  farther  on). 

The  rabbis  taught :  Willows  of  the  brook,  that  grow  only  at 
brooks ;  but  the  Tzaphtzapha,  which  grows  only  between  moun- 
tains, is  excepted. 

The  rabbis  taught :  How  can  we  recognize  what  is  a  willow 
and  what  is  a  Tzaphtzapha  ?  The  willow's  stem  is  red,  with  the 
leaves  elongated  and  their  edges  smooth.  But  a  Tzaphtzapha  has 
the  stem  white,  and  the  leaves  round,  and  their  edges  like  a 
scythe.  But  have  we  not  learned,  if  it  is  like  a  scythe,  it  is  valid, 
and  when  like  a  saw  it  is  invalid  ?  Said  Abayi :  This  we  learned 
of  the  willows  of  HilphaGila:  they  are  valid.  Abayi  said  again  : 
We  may  infer  from  this  that  the  same  willows  may  be  used  for 
the  seventh  day  when  Hoshanoth  are  used.  Is  not  this  self- 
evident  ?  One  would  say  that  because  the  willows  of  Hilpha 
Gila  have  an  additional  name,  they  are  not  valid,  he  comes  to 
teach  that  it  is  not  so.  But  perhaps  it  is  so  ?  Because  it  is  written 
in  the  plural,  all  are  included. 

MISHNA:  R.  Ishmael  says:  Three  myrtle  boughs,  two  wil- 
lows, one  palm  branch,  and  one  citron  are  needed.  If  two  out  of 
the  three  myrtle  boughs  had  the  tips  broken  off,  they  may  be 
used.  R.  Tarphon  says :  Even  if  all  three  should  have  the  tips 
broken  off.  R.  Aqiba  says :  As  one  Lulab  and  one  citron  are 
needed,  so  are  only  one  myrtle  bough  and  one  willow  needed. 

GEMARA :  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  It  is  written : 
"  The  fruit  of  the  tree  hadar^'  in  the  singular,  one  fruit ;  ''  a 
branch  of  a  palm  tree,"  in  the  singular,*  one  branch ;  "  boughs 

*  The  word  Kapath  is  written  in  the  singular,  but  is  read  Kapoth,  in  the  plural. 
4 


50  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

of  the  myrtle  tree,"  in  the  plural,  three  ;  and  "  willows  of  the 
brook,"  also  in  the  plural,  two.  And  even  if  two  had  the 
tips  broken  off,  it  is  valid.  R.  Tarphon,  however,  said :  Three 
are  needed  ;  and  if  all  the  tips  are  broken  off,  it  does  not  matter. 
R.  Aqiba  said  :  As  the  Lulab  and  the  citron  are  only  one,  so  of 
the  myrtle  boughs  and  the  willows  is  needed  only  one.  Said  R. 
Eliezer  to  him  :  According  to  thee,  the  citron  must  be  tied 
together  with  the  Lulab  ?  And  he  answered  :  Did  the  verse  say  : 
"  The  fruit  of  the  tree  hadar  and  a  branch  of  a  palm  tree  "  ?  It 
mentions  them  separately.  If  so,  whence  do  we  know  that  one 
depends  upon  the  other?  Because  it  is  written  :  "  Ye  shall  take." 
That  means,  you  shall  take  all  things  that  are  enumerated,  and 
not  one  without  the  other.  How  shall  we  imagine  the  case, 
according  to  R.  Ishmael?  If  all  kinds  have  to  be  entire,  why 
are  the  myrtle  boughs  allowed  if  they  are  broken  ?  And  if  it  is 
not  required  that  they  should  be  entire,  let  even  the  other  kinds, 
if  broken,  be  used  ?  Said  Birah  in  the  name  of  R.  Ammi  :  R. 
Ishmael  retracted  this  decision.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of 
Samuel :  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Tarphon,  and 
Samuel  said  this  according  to  his  theory,  because  he  said  to  the 
sellers  of  the  myrtles :  Make  the  price  lower,  and  if  you  will  not 
do  so,  I  will  lecture  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R. 
Tarphon.  Let  him  then  lecture  according  to  R.  Aqiba,  who  is 
more  lenient,  and  says  only  one  is  needed  ?  Three  with  the  tips 
broken  are  more  easily  procurable  than  one  uninjured. 

MISHNA  :  A  citron  which  has  been  robbed,  or  is  withered, 
is  invalid.  One  coming  from  a  grove  or  a  rejected  town  is  in- 
valid. One  taken  off  a  tree  less  than  three  years  old  "^  is  not 
valid.  Nor  one  taken  from  heave-offering  that  is  unclean.  From 
clean  heave-offering  a  man  is  not  to  take  a  citron  ;  but  if  he  has 
taken,  he  has  fulfilled  his  duty.  One  taken  from  Demai  (fruit 
from  which  it  is  doubtful  whether  the  legal  dues  have  been  paid) 
Beth  Shammai  hold  invalid,  but  Beth  Hillel  hold  it  valid.  A 
man  is  not  to  take  a  citron  from  second  tithe  in  Jerusalem ;  but 
if  he  has  taken  one,  he  has  done  his  duty.  If  a  stain  spread  over 
the  greater  portion  of  the  citron,  if  it  has  lost  its  crown,  or  the 
fine  rind  has  been  peeled  off,  or  if  it  is  split,  or  perforated,  if  ever 
so  little  thereof  is  wanting,  it  is  not  valid.  If,  however,  the  stain 
is  spread  over  the  smaller  portion  of  the  citron,  if  it  has  lost  its 
stalk,  or  if  that  be  perforated  (but  the  citron  itself  is  entire)  so 

*  Lev.  xix.  23, 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  51 

that  no  part,  however  small,  be  wanting,  it  is  valid.  A  dark- 
colored  one  is  invalid,  a  leek-green  one  R.  Meir  pronounces  valid, 
but   R.  Jehudah  invalid. 

The  minimum  size  of  a  small  citron,  R.  Meir  says,  is  like  a  nut ; 
R.  Jehudah  says,  like  an  egg ;  and  of  a  large  citron,  that  one  can 
hold  two  in  one  hand.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah  ;  but  R. 
Jose  says,  even  one  must  be  taken  with  both  hands. 

GEMARA  :  The  rabbis  taught :  The  fruit  of  the  tree  hadar  ; 
that  is,  a  tree  whose  wood  and  fruit  have  the  same  taste,  and  that 
is  a  citron.  Perhaps  it  is  pepper,  as  we  learn  in  the  following 
Boraitha :  R.  Meir  used  to  say  :  Because  it  is  written  [Lev.  xix. 
23] :  ''  Plant  any  kind  of  tree,  bearing  edible  fruit."  Why  was  it 
needed  to  say,  a  tree  bearing  edible  fruit  ?  Is  it  not  self-evident 
that  if  it  is  bearing  fruit  it  is  edible  ?  From  this  we  infer  that 
to  pepper,  whose  wood  and  fruit  have  the  same  taste,  the  law  of 
Arlah  applies.  And  in  the  land  of  Israel  nothing  is  lacking  (even 
pepper),  as  it  is  written  [Deut.  viii.  9]  :  '^  A  land  .  .  .  wherein 
thou  shalt  not  lack  anything"?  Because  it  is  impossible:  how 
shall  we  do  ?  Shall  we  take  one  pepper-grain,  that  will  not  be 
noticed  at  all,  many  of  them  ;  the  law  says  one,  not  two  or  three ; 
and  therefore  it  cannot  be.  R.  Abahu  says :  Do  not  read  hadar, 
but  ha-dar ;  that  is,  a  thing  that  dwells  on  its  tree  the  whole 
year.  Ben  Azzai  said  :  Do  not  read  hadar,  but  adur,  because  in 
Greek  they  call  water  vdoopy  and  that  means  a  tree  which  can 
grov/  in  all  waters,  and  that  is  only  a  citron. 

'^  One  that  comes  from  a  grove,''  etc.  Because  it  must  be  burned, 
and  therefore  it  is  considered  to  have  no  size. 

'^  From  a  tree  less  than  three  years,''  etc.  Why  so?  R.  Hiya 
bar  Abbin  and  R.  Assi  differed :  one  says,  because  it  is  not 
allowed  to  eat  it,  it  must  not  be  used  either ;  and  one  says,  be- 
cause at  that  time  it  is  worth  nothing  (because  it  must  not  be 
used  for  any  purpose). 

R.  Assi  said  :  With  a  citron  of  second  tithe,  according  to  R. 
Meir,  a  man  cannot  fulfil  his  duty  ;  but  according  to  the  sages,  he 
can.  The  same  is  the  case  with  Matzah  of  second  tithe.  And 
dough  of  second  tithe,  according  to  R.  Meir,  is  exempt  from 
Halah,  and  according  to  the  sages,  is  not. 

*'  From  unclean  heave-offering."  Because  it  is  not  allowed  to  eat 
it.  And  from  clean  heave-offering?  ^^  One  shall  not  take,"  e\Q. 
R.  Ami  and  R.  Assi  differ :  one  says,  because  he  makes  it  subject 
to  defilement,  and  one  says,  because  he  spoils  it  (because,  when  he 
holds  it  in  the  hand,  it  gets  black,  and  is  spoiled). 


52  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

"  But  if  he  has  taken,  it  is  valid^  According  to  those  who  say- 
that  it  must  not  be  taken,  because  it  is  not  allowed  to  be  eaten, 
this  law  is  according  to  all ;  and  according  to  those  who  say  be- 
cause it  has  no  value,  this  Mishna  is  only  in  accordance  with 
the  rabbis. 

''From  Demaiy  What  is  the  reason  of  Beth  Hillel?  Because 
if  one  wishes,  he  can  relinquish  his  estates,  and  then  he  would  be 
poor,  and  he  would  be  allowed  to  eat  it  ;  therefore  now  also  we 
consider  it  proper. 

''  If  a  stain!'  etc.  Said  R.  Hisda:  The  following  thing  our 
great  rabbi  said,  may  the  Lord  come  to  his  help  :  The  case  is  only 
when  it  is  in  one  place  (of  the  citron),  but  if  it  is  in  two  or  more 
places,  it  is  like  a  spotted  one,  and  is  invalid.  Said  Rabha :  On 
its  top,  even  if  it  is  but  trifling,  it  is  invalid. 

"  Its  crown,''  etc.     R.   Itz'hak  b.  Elazar  taught  :     The  crown, 
but  not  the  stalk  at  the  bottom. 

''Peeled  off,"  etc.  Said  Rabha:  If  a  citron  has  been  peeled, 
and  gets  the  color  of  a  red  date,  it  is  valid.  But  did  we  not  learn 
in  our  Mishna  that  if  peeled,  it  is  invalid  ?  It  presents  no  dififi- 
culty.  If  it  was  in  part  peeled  off,  it  is  like  a  spotted  one,  and 
invalid ;  but  if  entirely  peeled,  it  is  valid. 

"  Split  or  perforated,"  etc.  Ulla  bar  Hanina  taught :  When 
it  is  perforated  through  and  through,  even  if  it  is  trifling,  it  is 
invalid ;  but  otherwise,  then  if  the  hole  is  of  the  size  of  an  Isar 
(a  coin),  it  is  also  invalid,  but  if  less  it  is  valid. 

A  citron  that  is  swollen,  ill-smelling,  soaked,  boiled,  black  or 
white,  or  spotted,  is  invalid.  A  citron  round  as  a  sphere  (not 
elliptical)  is  invalid.  According  to  some,  twins  (two  growing  to- 
gether) are  also  invalid.  An  unripe  citron  R.  Aqiba  makes  in- 
valid, and  the  sages  do  not.  If  it  was  made  to  grow  in  a  mould, 
and  it  came  out  of  an  irregular  shape,  it  is  invalid. 

It  was  taught :  "  A  citron  that  mice  have  perforated,"  said 
Rabh,  "  cannot  be  called  beautiful." 

"  And  of  a  large  citron," ttc  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha : 
R.  Jose  said  it  once  happened  to  R.  Aqiba  that  he  came  to  a 
prayer-house  with  his  citron,  and  it  was  so  large  that  he  brought 
it  on  his  shoulder.  Said  R.  Jehudah  to  him :  It  proves  nothing, 
because  the  sages  told  him  then :  This  cannot  be  considered 
beautiful. 

MISHNA:  The  Lulab  must  only  be  tied  with  its  own  kind 
(threads  of  palm  branches).  So  says  R.  Jehudah.  But  R.  Meir 
says :  It  may  be  tied  even  with  twine.     R.  Meir  also  said  :  It 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  53 

happened  that  the  inhabitants  of  Jerusalem  tied  a  Lulab  with 
gold  lace.  But  the  sages  answered  :  Yes,  they  did  so,  but  be- 
neath the  gold  lace  they  tied  it  with  its  own  kind. 

GEMARA :  Said  Rabha :  With  the  bark  or  the  root  of  the 
same  tree  it  may  be  tied.  And  he  says  again  :  What  is  the  rea- 
son of  R.  Jehudah's  decree?  Because  according  to  him  the 
Lulab  must  not  be  used  unless  it  is  tied,  and  if  it  be  tied  with 
another  kind,  it  should  be  five  kinds,  and  not  four.  He  says 
again :  Whence  do  I  deduce  that  the  bark  and  the  root  of  the 
palm  tree  are  considered  of  the  same  kind  as  the  Lulab  itself  ? 
From  the  following  Boraitha :  It  is  written :  *' Ye  shall  dwell  in 
booths."  That  signifies,  a  booth  of  any  materials  :  so  is  the  de- 
cree of  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said  :  A  booth  must  be 
made  only  of  the  four  kinds  used  for  the  Lulab.  And  it  seems 
to  me  that  such  is  right,  because  if  a  Lulab  which  is  used  only  in 
the  day,  and  not  in  the  night,  must  have  the  four  kinds  only,  for 
a  Succah  which  is  used  both  by  day  and  by  night,  so  much  the 
more  are  the  four  kinds  needed.  RepHed  the  sages  to  him : 
Every  law  which  is  at  the  beginning  more  rigorous,  and  is  finally 
more  lenient,  is  no  law  at  all.  And  our  case,  according  to  your 
opinion,  if  one  did  not  find  the  four  kinds,  he  should  sit  in  his 
house,  doing  nothing ;  and  the  Torah  says :  "  Seven  days  ye 
shall  dwell  in  booths."  Therefore  we  say  a  Succah  should  be 
made  of  any  materials.  And  so  it  is  written  in  Nehemiah,  viii.  15  : 
*'  Go  forth  unto  the  mountain  and  fetch  olive  leaves,  and  oleaster 
leaves,  and  myrtle  leaves,  and  palm  leaves,  and  leaves  of  the  three- 
leaved  myrtle  to  make  booths."  R.  Jehudah,  however,  ex- 
plains this  verse  thus :  That  olive  leaves  and  oleaster  leaves  are 
for  the  walls  of  the  Succah,  and  myrtle  leaves,  etc.,  are  for  the 
covering.  And  we  have  learned  in  a  previous  Mishna :  It  may 
be  roofed  with  boards,  so  is  the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah,  Hence 
we  see  that,  although  R.  Jehudah  requires  only  the  four  kinds  for 
the  covering,  nevertheless,  if  one  has  covered  it  with  boards,  it  is 
valid,  because  the  boards  of  the  bark  and  of  the  roots  of  the  same 
tree  are  considered  by  him  of  the  same  kind.  But  have  we  not 
learned  in  a  Boraitha  that  if  one  has  covered  it  with  boards  of 
cedar,  it  is  vaHd  according  to  R.  Jehudah  ?  By  cedar  is  also 
meant  myrtle,  as  Rabha  bar  R.  Huna  says  elsewhere:  There  are 
ten  kinds  of  cedar,  and  the  myrtle  is  among  them,  as  it  is  written 
[Is.  xli.  19]  :  "  I  will  place  in  the  wilderness  the  cedar,  the  acacia, 
the  myrtle." 

Said   Rabba  to   the  men   who  tied   the  Hosha'noth  for  the 


54  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

exilarch  :  When  you  tie  them,  leave  the  breadth  of  a  hand  at  the 
bottom  ;  there  shall  be  no  intervention  between  the  hand  and 
the  Hosha'na."^  Said  Rabha :  All  that  was  made  to  beautify  it, 
does  not  intervene.  Rabba  says  again  :  A  man  shall  not  hold 
the  Hosha'na  through  a  cloth,  because  it  is  written :  "  Ye  shall 
take,"  with  your  own  hands.  Rabha,  however,  said  :  Even  if  one 
takes  it  through  another  thing,  it  is  still  called  taking.  Rabba 
says  again  :  After  the  Hosha'na  and  the  myrtle  bough  have  been 
tied,  one  shall  not  insert  the  Lulab,  lest  some  leaves  be  torn  off 
from  them,  and  they  will  be  an  intervention  between  the  Lulab 
and  them.  Rabba,  however,  said  :  A  thing  of  the  same  kind 
makes  no  intervention. 

Rabba  says  again  :  A  myrtle  bough  used  for  the  religious 
purpose  may  not  be  smelled,  but  a  citron  may.  Why  so  ?  Be- 
cause the  myrtle  is  only  used  because  of  its  odor,  and  as  it  has 
been  designated  for  a  religious  purpose,  it  must  not  be  smelled  ; 
but  a  citron,  which  is  made  for  eating,  has  been  designated  only 
for  eating,  and  may  be  smelled.  The  same  authority  says  again  : 
A  myrtle  attached  to  the  ground  may  be  smelled  on  the  festival, 
but  a  citron  must  not.  Why  so  ?  Because  a  myrtle,  which  is  used 
only  for  smelling,  if  one  will  be  allowed  to  smell  it,  when  yet  at- 
tached to  the  ground,  he  will  not  cut  off ;  but  a  citron,  which  is 
for  eating,  if  he  will  be  allowed  to  smell,  he  will  cut  off,  and  eat. 
He  says  again  :  The  Lulab  must  be  held  in  the  right  hand,  and 
the  citron  in  the  left  hand.  Why  so  ?  Because  by  the  Lulab 
three  duties  are  performed,  and  by  the  citron  only  one. 

Said  R.  Jeremiah  to  R.  Zrika :  Why  do  we  pronounce  the 
benediction  over  the  Lulab  only  ?  Because  it  is  higher  than  the 
other  kinds.  But  let  one  raise  the  citron,  and  pronounce  the  ben- 
ediction over  it  ?  And  he  answered  :  Because  by  nature  it  grows 
higher  than  the  other  kinds. 

MISHNA  :  When  must  the  Lulab  be  shaken  ?  At  the  verse : 
''  Praise  ye  the  Lord  "  (in  the  prayer),  at  the  beginning  and  end- 
ing (of  that  part  of  the  prayer),  and  at  the  verse :  "  O  Lord,  we 
beseech  thee,  save  us  "  :  so  is  the  decree  of  Beth  Hillel.  But 
Beth  Shammai  hold,  also  at  the  verse :  '*  O  Lord,  v/e  beseech 
thee,  prosper  us."  R.  Aqiba  said  :  I  watched  Rabban  Gamaliel 
and  R.  Joshuah  (in  the  time  of  prayer),  and  I  saw  while  all  men 
shook  the  Lulabs  at  both  the  above-mentioned  verses,  they  shook 
theirs  only  at :  ''  O  Lord,"  etc.,  ''  save  us." 

*  The  Gemara  calls  Hosha'na  the  Lulab,  and  the  myrtle  bough  and  willow  tied 
together. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  55 

GEMARA :  Where  is  it  mentioned  that  it  should  be  shaken  ? 
In  the  first  Mishna  of  this  chapter :  it  teaches,  a  Lulab  which  is 
three  spans  long  ''  sufficient  to  shake  it  by  "  ;  and  now  it  is  asked, 
When  shall  it  be  shaken  ?  Said  R.  Johanan  :  The  shaking  shall 
be  towards  all  four  sides — to  the  Creator,  that  all  the  sides  are 
His;  and  it  shall  be  raised  and  lowered  to  Him  to  whom  the 
heaven  and  the  earth  belong.  In  the  West  they  taught  so  :  R. 
Hama  bar  Uqba  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose  bar  Hanina  said  :  He 
shall  shake  towards  all  sides,  to  prevent  bad  winds ;  and  up  and 
down,  to  prevent  bad  dews. 

MISHNA  :  If  one  is  on  the  road,  and  has  no  Lulab,  he  must, 
when  he  gets  home,  shake  it  before  his  meal.  If  he  has  not  done 
it  in  the  morning,  he  must  do  it  toward  evening,  as  the  duty  may 
be  done  during  the  whole  day. 

If  a  slave,  woman,  or  minor  reads  hallel  (see  Pesachim,  Chap. 
X.,  pp.  242-46)  to  a  man,  he  should  repeat  after  them  word  for 
word,  but  it  is  a  disgrace  to  him  (not  to  have  learned  to  read). 
If  a  grown  man  reads  to  him,  he  only  responds  ''  Hallelujah."  At 
the  places  where  certain  verses  are  said  tvv^ice,  he  is  to  do  so. 
Where  they  are  recited  once,  he  must  do  so.  Where  a  bene- 
diction  is  said  after  the  Lulab,  he  must  say  it.  In  every  case  he 
must  do  as  is  the  custom  of  the  country. 

GEMARA:  Rabha  said:  Great  Halakhoth  can  be  inferred 
from  the  custom  of  saying  Hallel :  From  the  custom  of  our  time, 
when  almost  all  men  can  read  the  Hallel  themselves,  never- 
theless they  repeat  the  beginnings  of  the  chapters  after  the  reader, 
we  may  infer  what  are  the  essential  portions  of  Hallel,  and  how 
it  was  done  in  the  ancient  times,  when  the  people  could  not  read 
themselves,  and  a  man  was  wanted  to  read  it,  for  them  to  repeat 
after  him.  The  Mishna  says:  He  responds  "  Hallelujah."  From 
this  we  see  that  Hallelujah  is  of  the  essential  portions  which  must 
be  responded.  We  see  also  in  our  time,  when  the  reader  begins  : 
''  Praise,  O  ye  servants  of  the  Lord,"  and  the  people  respond, 
"  Hallelujah,"  we  may  infer  that  if  a  grown  man  is  the  reader 
of  the  Hallel,  it  is  sufficient  for  the  hearer  to  respond  ''  Halle- 
lujah," and  not  to  repeat  the  whole  chapter  (part  of  the  prayer). 
From  what  we  see,  that  when  the  reader  says,  "  Praise  ye  the 
Lord,"  they  also  repeat,  ''  Praise  ye  the  Lord,"  we  infer  that  it  is 
a  merit  to  repeat  the  first  verses  of  the  chapter. 

[It  was  also  taught :  R.  Hanan  bar  Rabha  said  :  It  is  a  merit 
to  repeat  the  first  verses  of  the  chapter.]  When  the  reader  says  : 
*'0  Lord,  save  us,"  they  should  repeat  it.     If  the  reader  .is  a 


56  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

minor,  however,  one  must  repeat  after  him  word  for  word.  When 
he  says :  ''  O  Lord,  prosper  us,"  they  repeat  it,  and  from  this  we 
see  that  if  one  wishes  to  say  it  twice,  he  may  do  so.  When  he 
says,  **  Blessed  be  he  that  cometh,"  they  respond,  "  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord."  From  this  we  see  that  he  who  Hstens  to  the  prayer 
is  equal  to  him  who  himself  repeats  it. 

R.  Hiya  bar  Abba  was  asked  :  If  one  has  listened  to  the 
prayer,  and  not  responded,  how  is  the  law  ?  And  he  answered : 
The  sages,  the  scribes,  the  heads  of  the  people,  the  preachers,  all 
have  decided  that  he  who  has  listened,  and  not  answered,  has  ful- 
filled his  duty. 

'^  At  the  places  where  verses  are  said  twice,''  etc.  We  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha :  Rabbi  used  to  say  twice  In  the  Hallel  same 
parts.  R.  Elazar  b.  Parta  has  added  parts  to  the  same  prayer. 
What  is  meant  by  ''  added  "  ?  Said  Abayi :  He  added  the  man- 
ner of  saying  twice  every  verse  from  the  2ist  verse  of  Psalm 
cxviii.  to  the  end  of  that  psalm. 

"■  When  it  is  the  custom  to  say  a  benediction,''  etc.  Said  Abayi, 
that  is  only  at  the  end  of  the  Hallel ;  but  before,  it  is  not  a  cus- 
tom, but  obligatory.  As  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel : 
All  the  religious  duties  must  have  a  benediction  pronounced  be- 
fore they  are  performed. 

MISHNA :  If  one  buys  a  Lulab  from  a  man  of  the  common 
people  in  a  Sabbatical  year,  he  shall  ask  of  him  that  the  citron 
shall  be  given  to  him  as  a  gift,  because  it  is  not  allowed  to  buy  a 
citron  in  the  Sabbatical  year. 

GEMARA :  But  how  is  the  law  if  the  seller  does  not  want 
to  give  him  this  as  a  gift?  Said  R.  Huna:  He  shall  include  the 
price  of  the  citron  in  the  price  for  the  Lulab.  Why  ?  Let  him 
give  it  to  him  publicly?  Because  one  must  not  give  money  for 
fruits  forbidden  to  be  sold  on  the  Sabbatical  year  to  a  man  of 
the  common  people.  As  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  One 
must  not  give  money  for  fruit  on  the  Sabbatical  year  to  a  man  of 
the  common  people  more  than  is  sufficient  for  three  meals ;  and 
if  one  has  done  it,  he  shall  say :  This  money  that  I  give  to  this 
man  shall  be  exchanged  for  the  fruit  which  I  have  in  my  house, 
and  after  that  he  uses  the  fruit  which  he  has  had  in  the  house 
only  for  purposes  for  which  fruit  of  the  Sabbatical  year  may  be 
used.  When  is  that  the  case  ?  When  he  saw  that  the  man  sold 
to  him  fruit  from  a  field  left  to  the  public,  which  had  no  owner ; 
but  if  he  sold  it  from  his  own  field,  one  must  not  buy  even 
for  half  an  isar.     If  it  is  so,  why  only  the  citron  ?     What  is  the 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  57 

case  with  the  palm  branch  ?  The  Lulab  cannot  be  of  the  Sab- 
batical year,  because  it  had  been  ripe  on  the  sixth  year.  But  the 
same  is  the  case  with  the  citron  ?  In  case  of  a  citron,  it  is  not 
counted  from  the  time  of  its  ripeness,  but  its  removal  from  the 
tree  (as  is  explained  in  Tract  Rosh  Hashana,  p.  19).  But  we 
know  that  according  to  both  R.  Gamaliel  and  R.  Eliezer,  in  refer- 
ence to  the  Sabbatical  year,  in  case  of  the  citron  it  is  counted 
from  the  time  of  its  budding.  As  we  have  learned  in  the  follow- 
ing Mishna :  The  citron  is  equal  to  a  tree  in  three  respects,  and 
to  herbs  in  one  respect — to  a  tree  in  three  respects,  to  wit :  Of 
aria  (the  first  three  years),  rebai  (the  fourth  year)  [Lev.  xix. 
22-24],  and  of  the  Sabbatical  year,  in  reference  to  which  it  is 
counted  from  the  time  of  its  budding;  and  to  a  herb  in  one 
respect,  that  it  must  be  tithed  when  it  is  gathered  {i.e.,  the  tithe 
must  be  used  for  the  purpose  of  that  year).  So  is  the  decree  of 
Rabban  Gamaliel.  R.  Eliezer,  however,  said :  A  citron  is  equal 
to  a  tree  in  all  respects  (hence  we  see  that  all  agree  that  in  refer- 
ence to  the  Sabbatical  year  it  is  counted  in  case  of  the  citron 
from  the  time  of  its  ripeness,  not  of  its  budding).  The  Tana  of 
our  Mishna  holds  as  the  Tana  of  the  following  Boraitha :  R. 
Jose  said  :  Abtulmus  testified  in  the  name  of  five  elders,  thus : 
The  citron  must  be  counted  from  the  time  when  it  is  gathered 
for  tithe.  Our  Masters,  however,  have  voted  and  decided  in  the 
city  of  Usha  that  in  reference  both  to  tithe  and  Sabbatical  year 
it  is  to  be  counted  from  the  time  of  its  gathering.  But  where 
is  here  mentioned  the  Sabbatical  year?  The  Boraitha  is  not 
completed,  and  must  read  thus :  The  citron  is  counted  when 
gathered  in  reference  to  tithe,  and  from  budding  in  reference  to 
the  Sabbatical  year.  Our  Masters  in  Usha,  however,  have  de- 
cided that  in  both  cases  it  is  counted  from  the  time  of  the 
gathering. 

R.  Elazar  said  :  The  fruit  of  the  Sabbatical  year  does  not 
become  exchanged,  unless  it  is  done  in  the  manner  of  buying  and 
selHng.  R.  Johanan,  however,  said  :  It  becomes  exchanged  even 
through  exchanging.  What  is  the  reason  of  R.  Elazar?  Be- 
cause it  is  written  [Lev.  xxv.  13]  :  *'  In  this  year  of  the  jubilee," 
and  the  next  verse  says,  "  shall  he  sell,"  from  this  we  infer,  only 
through  buying  and  selling.  What  is  the  reason  of  R.  Johanan? 
Because  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  12]  :  "  For  it  is  the  jubilee,  holy 
shall  it  be  unto  you  " ;  and  as  in  case  of  all  holiness  there  is  no 
difference  between  selling  and  exchanging,  the  same  is  the  case 
with  the  fruit   of  the  Sabbatical  year.     We  have  learned  in  one 


S8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Boraitha  in  accordance  with  R,  Elazar,  and  in  another  Boraithawe 
have  learned  in  accordance  with  R.  Johanan. 

A  Boraitha  according  to  R.  Elazar  :  The  Sabbatical  year  holds 
the  money  exchanged  for  its  fruit,  because  it  is  written  :  ''  It  is  a 
jubilee  year  and  shall  be  holy."  As  the  holy  things  hold  the 
money  exchanged  for  it,  and  makes  it  holy,  so  also  do  the  fruit 
of  the  Sabbatical  year.  But  should  we  assume,  as  the  holy  things 
become  ordinary,  when  exchanged,  the  same  shall  be  with  the 
Sabbatical  year,  therefore  it  is  written :  "  It  shall  be  " — which 
means,  so  shall  it  stay.  How  so?  I.e.,  if  one  bought  for  its 
fruit  meat,  both  must  be  destroyed  ;  if,  however,  he  bought  fish 
for  the  meat,  the  fish  becomes  its  substitute,  and  the  meat  is  free ; 
the  fish,  again,  exchanged  for  wine,  the  latter  becomes  the  sub- 
stitute. The  same  is  the  case  when  the  latter  is  exchanged  for 
wine :  the  very  last  always  becomes  the  substitute  of  the  pre- 
ceding one,  except  the  original  fruit,  which  remains  as  it  was. 
Now,  then,  when  the  Boraitha  mentions  at  every  exchange  the 
word  *'  lokahy'  which  means  bought,  we  may  infer  from  it  that 
it  was  done  only  by  purchase,  but  not  by  exchange  (hence  R. 
Elazar's  opinion). 

A  Boraitha  according  to  R.  Johanan  :  Both  the  fruit  of  the 
Sabbatical  year  and  of  the  second  tithe  may  be  exchanged  for 
wild  game,  cattle,  and  fowl  when  they  are  either  alive  or  slaugh- 
tered. So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  But  the  sages  say  that  only 
for  slaughtered  ones,  but  when  alive  they  must  not  be  taken  in 
exchange,  lest  he  shall  raise  a  herd  from  them.  Said  Rabha  : 
They  differ  only  as  to  males,  but  females,  all  agree  that  only 
slaughtered  ones  may  be  exchanged,  but  not  living  ones,  for  the 
precautionary  measure  stated  above. 

Said  R.  Ashi :  They  differ  only  about  the  fruit  exchanged 
already  for  the  Sabbatical  fruit,  but  about  the  Sabbatical  fruit 
itself  all  agree,  only  through  selling  and  not  through  exchanging. 
But  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  The  fruit  of  the  Sabbat- 
ical year  and  second  tithe  may  be  exchanged  for  animals,  wild 
beasts,  and  fowls  ?  By  this  is  meant,  not  the  fruit  but  the  money 
obtained  for  it.  And  this  must  be  so,  because  it  is  mentioned 
together  with  second  tithe,  and  by  second  tithe  could  not  be 
meant  the  fruit  itself,  because  it  is  written  [Deut.  xiv.  25]  :  ''  Bind 
up  the  money  in  thy  hand." 

MISHNA:  Formerly  the  Lulab  was  used  in  the  Temple  all 
the  seven  days  of  the  festival ;  in  the  country,  however,  only  one 
day.     When  the  Temple  was  destroyed,  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  59 

ordained  :  In  the  country  it  shall  also  be  used  all  the  seven  days, 
in  memory  of  the  Temple.  He  ordained  also  at  the  same  time 
that  on  the  sixteenth  day  of  Nissan,  called  the  day  of  Noph  (the 
day  of  waving  the  omer :  Lev.  xxiii.  11),  it  should  not  be  allowed 
to  eat  new  grain. 

GEMARA :  Whence  do  we  infer  that  it  must  be  done  in 
memory  of  the  Temple?  Said  R.  Johanan  :  Because  it  is  written 
[Jeremiah,  xxx.  17]  :  ''This  is  Zion,  whom  no  one  seeketh  after." 
From  this  we  infer  that  it  must  be  sought  after. 

"  The  day  of  Noph,''  etc.  What  is  the  reason?  Said  R. 
Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak :  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  said  this  in  accord- 
ance with  the  system  of  R.  Jehudah,  who  said  that  it  is  biblically 
prohibited  to  eat  the  whole  day,  because  it  is  v/ritten  [Lev.  xxiii. 
14],  "  until  the  self-same  day  "  ;  and  the  self-same  day  means  this 
day  shall  be  included.  Does  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  indeed  hold 
with  R.  Jehudah,  did  he  not  differ  from  him  ?  As  we  learn  in 
the  following  Mishna :  When  the  Temple  was  destroyed,  R. 
Johanan  b.  Zakkai  ordained  that  the  whole  day  of  Noph  it  shall 
be  prohibited.  And  R.  Jehudah  said  to  him :  Why  such  an 
ordinance  ?  Is  it  not  biblically  prohibited,  as  it  is  written,  "  on 
the  self-same  day,"  which  means  to  include  the  whole  day  ?  R. 
Jehudah  erred,  because  he  thought  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  in- 
tended to  make  his  ordinance  rabbinical,  and  it  was  not  so ;  R. 
Johanan  b.  Zakkai  ordained  this  biblically.  If  biblically,  what 
is  meant  by  the  expression  "ordained"?  Read:  He  lectured 
that  this  is  biblical  and  so  ordained. 

MISHNA:  If  the  first  day  of  the  festival  falls  on  a  Sabbath, 
the  people  bring  their  Lulabs  to  the  synagogue  on  the  eve  of 
Sabbath  and  leave  them  there,  and  on  the  next  morning  they 
come  early  to  synagogue,  and  each  seeks  out  his  own  Lulab,  and 
performs  with  it  his  duty,  because  the  sages  hold  that  the  duty 
cannot  be  fulfilled  on  the  first  day  by  means  of  a  Lulab  belong- 
ing to  his  neighbor;  but  it  can  be  fulfilled  on  the  subsequent 
days  of  the  festival. 

R.  Jose  says:  If  the  first  day  of  the  festival  falls  on  the  Sab- 
bath, and  one  carries  out  the  Lulab  into  public  ground  through 
forgetfulness,  he  is  not  culpable,  because  he  carried  it  out  with 
the  intention  to  do  a  religious  duty. 

GEMARA  :  Whence  is  this  deduced  ?  From  what  the  rabbis 
taught :  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxiii.  40] :  "  Ye  shall  take,"  that 
means,  it  shall  be  taken  with  the  hand  ;  "  unto  yourselves,"  it 
shall  be  your  own,  but  not  a  borrowed  one  or  robbed  one ;  and 


6o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

from  this  the  sages  said  that  one  cannot  fulfil  his  duty  with  the 
Lulab  of  his  neighbor  on  the  first  day,  unless  he  has  made  of  it 
a  present  to  him.  And  it  happened  to  Rabban  GamaHel,  R. 
Joshuah,  R.  Elazar  b.  Azariah,  and  R.  Aqiba,  when  they  were 
on  board  a  ship,  that  they  had  but  one  Lulab,  which  was  the 
property  of  Rabban  Gamaliel,  who  had  bought  it  for  a  thousand 
Zuz ;  and  R.  Gamaliel  performed  with  it  his  duty,  and  then  made 
of  it  a  present  to  R.  Joshuah  ;  R.  Joshuah  did  the  same,  and 
gave  it  away  to  R.  Elazar,  who  did  the  same,  and  gave  it  as  a 
present  to  R.  Aqiba ;  and  R.  Aqiba,  after  having  fulfilled  his 
duty,  returned  it  to  Rabban  Gamaliel.  To  what  purpose  do 
they  tell  us  that  R.  Aqiba  returned  it  to  Rabban  Gamaliel  ?  It 
is  to  teach  us  by  the  way,  that  a  present  with  the  condition  that 
it  shall  be  returned  after,  is  called  a  present.  As  Rabha  said 
elsewhere  :  **  If  one  say :  I  present  to  you  this  citron  to  fulfil 
your  duty  with  it,  and  afterwards  you  shall  return  it  to  me,"  if 
the  man  returned  it  afterwards,  he  had  fulfilled  his  duty,  but  if 
he  failed  to  return  it,  it  is  not  counted  as  anything.  And  to 
what  purpose  do  they  tell  us  that  he  bought  it  for  a  thousand 
Zuz?  To  let  us  know  how  dear  to  them  were  religious  duties. 
Said  Mar  bar  Amemar  to  R.  Ashi :  My  father  used  to  pray, 
holding  the  Lulab  in  his  hand.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha : 
R.  Elazar  ^  bar  Zadok  says :  So  was  the  custom  of  the  men  of 
Jerusalem  :  when  one  was  going  out  of  his  house,  the  Lulab  was 
in  his  hand ;  when  he  went  to  the  house  of  prayer,  the  Lulab 
was  in  his  hand  ;  when  he  read  the  Shema  and  prayed,  the  Lulab 
was  in  his  hand  ;  when  he  read  in  the  Torah  and  raised  his  hands 
(when  a  priest)  to  bless  Israel,  he  laid  it  away  on  the  floor,  and 
afterwards  took  it  up.  If  he  went  to  visit  the  sick,  or  console 
mourners,  the  Lulab  was  in  his  hand.  When  he  went,  however, 
to  the  house  of  learning,  he  sent  it  away  through  his  son,  or 
servant,  or  messenger.  To  what  purpose  is  all  this  told  ?  To  let 
us  know  how  mindful  they  were  of  religious  duties. 

**  R.  Jose  said,''  etc.  Said  Abayi :  He  is  not  culpable  so  long 
as  he  has  not  fulfilled  his  duty  with  it ;  but  if  he  has,  he  is.  But 
has  not  the  duty  been  performed  as  soon  as  he  has  taken  it  into 
his  hand  and  raised  it  ?  Said  Abayi :  It  means,  if  he  carried  it 
out  inverted  (because  the  duty  is  not  fulfilled  so  long  as  he  does 
not  hold  it  as  it  grows).  Rabha  said  :  Even  if  he  has  not  in- 
verted it,  but  carried  it  out  in  a  vessel.     But  did  not  Rabha  him- 

*  Se«  foot-note  in  Tract  Pesachim,  p.  78. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  6i 

self  say  that  taking  through  any  other  thing  is  called  taking? 
That  is,  if  he  took  it  thus  to  honor  it ;  but  if  in  a  vessel  not 
appropriate  to  a  Lulab,  it  is  not  called  taking. 

MISHNA:  A  woman  may  receive  a  Lulab  out  of  the  hand 
of  her  son  or  of  her  husband,  and  put  it  back  into  water  on  the 
Sabbath.  R.  Jehudah  says  :  On  the  Sabbath  it  may  be  put  back, 
on  the  festival  they  may  add  fresh  water,  and  on  the  intermediate 
days  they  may  change  the  water.  A  minor  who  understands 
how  to  shake  the  Lulab  is  bound  to  perform  that  duty. 

GEMARA  :  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  Lest  one  say,  that  be- 
cause the  Lulab  is  not  obligatory  for  a  woman,  she  must  not 
handle  it,  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  she  may. 

"  A  minor,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught :  A  minor  who  knows  how 
to  shake  the  Lulab  is  bound  to  perform  this  duty.  If  he  knows 
how  to  wrap  himself  in  a  cloth,  he  is  bound  to  perform  the  duty 
of  Tzitzith ;  if  he  is  able  to  take  care  of  Tefilin,  his  father  may 
buy  for  him  Tefilin.  As  soon  as  he  can  talk,  his  father  shall 
teach  him  the  Torah,  and  to  read  Shema.  [What  is  meant  by 
Torah  ?  Said  R.  Hamnuna  :  The  verse  of  Deuteronomy,  xxxiii. 
4 :  ''  The  law  which  Moses  commanded  us  is  the  inheritance  of  the 
congregation  of  Jacob."  What  is  meant  by  Shema?  The  first 
verse.]  (The  Boraitha  says  farther  on) :  If  he  knows  how  to 
slaughter  animals,  it  may  be  eaten  of  his  slaughtering.  Said  R. 
Huna:  Only  if  an  adult  was  standing  by.  If  he  is  capable  to  eat 
bread  the  size  of  an  olive,  one  must  remove  from  him  to  the  dis- 
tance of  four  ells  (if  one  has  to  pray  or  to  study),  on  certain  occa- 
sions. Says  R.  Hisda  :  This  is  only  if  he  can  eat  the  piece  of 
bread  in  the  same  length  of  time  that  a  grown  person  can  eat 
bread  of  the  size  of  three  eggs,  or  more.  Said  R.  Hiya  the  son 
of  R.  Yeba :  In  the  case  of  a  grown  man  who  is  sick  and  unable 
to  eat  as  much,  in  the  above-mentioned  length  of  time,  one  must 
nevertheless  remove  four  ells.  Because  it  is  written  [Eccl.  i.  i8]  : 
^'  Where  there  is  much  wisdom,  there  is  much  vexation."  If  the 
minor  is  able  to  eat  roasted  meat  of  the  size  of  an  olive,  the 
Paschal  offering  may  be  slaughtered  for  him,  as  it  is  written  [Ex. 
xii.  4]  :  **  Every  man  according  to  what  he  eateth."  R.  Jehudah, 
however,  said :  It  must  not  be  given  to  him  until  he  is  able  to 
distinguish.  How?  If  he  is  given  a  chip,  he  drops  it ;  but  a  nut, 
^e  accepts  it. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  FOUR  KINDS  TIED  WITH  THE  LULAB, 
CONCERNING  HALLEL,  POURING  THE  WATER  ON  THE  ALTAR. 

MISHNA:  The  Lulab  and  willow  to  surround  the  altar  were 
sometimes  used  on  six  days,  and  sometimes  on  seven  days  of  the 
festival.  The  Hallel  and  the  eating  of  peace-offerings  took  place 
on  eight  days.  The  dwelling  in  the  Succah  and  the  pouring  out 
of  water  lasted  seven  days,  and  the  pipes  were  played  on  some- 
times five,  sometimes  six  days.  In  which  case  was  the  Lulab 
used  seven  days  ?  When  the  first  holy  day  of  the  festival  fell 
on  a  Sabbath,  the  Lulab  was  used  on  seven  days ;  but  when 
the  first  day  of  the  festival  fell  on  any  other  day  of  the  week, 
the  Lulab  was  only  used  six  days.  In  which  case  was  the  willov/ 
used  on  seven  days  ?  When  the  seventh  day  of  the  willow  hap- 
pened to  fall  on  a  Sabbath,  the  willow  was  used  seven  days  ; 
but  when  the  seventh  day  fell  on  any  other  day  of  the  week, 
the  willow  was  only  used  six  days.  How  was  the  command  to 
take  the  Lulab  fulfilled  when  the  first  holy  day  of  the  festival 
fell  on  a  Sabbath  ?  It  was  the  custom  that  every  man  brought 
his  Lulab  to  the  Temple  mount,  where  it  was  received  by  in- 
spectors, who  deposited  it  in  a  gallery.  The  elders  placed  theirs 
in  a  separate  chamber,  and  the  people  were  taught  to  say :  Who- 
ever gets  hold  of  my  Lulab,  be  it  his  as  a  gift.  On  the  next 
morning  the  people  came  early ;  the  inspectors  threw  all  the 
Lulabs  down  before  them ;  every  man  seized  on  one,  and  it  often 
happened  that  they  hurt  each  other.  When  the  Beth  Din  saw 
that  the  people  were  thus  exposed  to  danger,  they  ordained  that 
every  man  was  to  use  his  Lulab  in  his  own  house. 

GEMARA :  Why  ?  It  is  only  handling  it,  and  as  the  com- 
mandment of  this  is  biblical,  that  it  shall  be  taken  in  the  Temple 
all  the  seven  days,  why  shall  it  not  be  preferred  to  Sabbath  ? 
Said  Rabba :  As  a  precautionary  measure,  lest  one  take  it  into 
his  hand  to  go  with  it  to  an  expert  to  learn  the  performance,  and 
at  the  same  time  one  will  carry  it  four  ells  in  public  ground. 
And  the  same  reason  is  with  the  cornet,  and  the  same  reason  h 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  63 

with  the  Book  of  Esther,  when  Purim  falls  on  Sabbath.  If  it  is 
so,  let  it  be  forbidden  even  on  the  first  day  of  the  festival  ?  On 
the  first  day  of  the  festival,  was  it  not  ordained  that  it  shall  be 
used  in  the  house,  as  mentioned  above  ?  Yea,  that  was  after  it 
was  ordained ;  but  what  was  the  case  before  it  was  ordained  ? 
Therefore  we  must  say,  that  the  reason  is  because  for  the  first 
day,  which  is  biblical  even  in  the  country,  the  rabbis  did  not 
take  the  precautionary  measure ;  but  the  other  days,  which  for 
the  country  is  only  rabbinical,  the  rabbis  took  it.  If  it  is  so,  why 
shall  we  not  take  it  now  on  the  first  day,  when  it  falls  on  Sab- 
bath? If  one  may  say,  because  we  do  not  know  exactly  the 
calendar,  why  do  the  Palestinians,  who  know  exactly  the  calen- 
dar, not  carry  it  on  Sabbath  ?  Yea,  they  did  so,  even  after  the 
Temple  was  destroyed,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  Mishna  above 
that  the  people  brought  their  Lulabs  to  the  Temple  mount ;  and 
another  Mishna  said,  they  brought  it  to  the  prayer-house,  from 
which  we  may  infer  that  in  the  time  of  the  Temple  they  took  it  to 
the  Temple  mount,  and  after  its  destruction  they  took  it  into  the 
house  of  prayer.  But  whence  do  we  deduce  that  in  the  country 
it  is  biblically  obligatory  on  the  first  day  ?  From  the  following 
Boraitha  :  It  is  written  :  ''  Ye  shall  take."  That  signifies,  it  shall 
be  taken  with  the  hand.  "  Unto  yourselves,"  it  shall  be  your 
own,  excluding  a  borrowed  or  a  robbed  one ;  "  on  the  day," 
even  on  Sabbath  ;  "  the  first,"  even  in  the  country.  "  The  first," 
from  this  we  infer  that  only  when  the  first  day  falls  on  Sabbath 
it  must  be  taken,  but  not  on  the  other  days.  The  text  says, 
'*  the  day,"  to  include  Sabbath.  Let  us  see.  This  is  only  hand- 
ling. Do  we  need  a  biblical  verse  to  allow  handHng?  Said 
Rabba :  It  is  meant  to  allow  the  preparing  of  the  Lulab,  and  this 
is  in  accordance  with  the  Tana  of  the  following  Boraitha :  The 
Lulab  and  all  its  preparations  violate  the  Sabbath.  So  is  the 
decree  of  R.  Eliezer.  And  the  reason  of  R.  Eliezer  is,  because 
it  is  written,  *'  the  day,"  it  is  meant  the  Sabbath. 

The  rabbis  taught :  It  is  written  :  ''  In  booths  shall  ye  dwell 
seven  days."  "  Days "  signifies  the  nights  also ;  but  perhaps 
only  the  days  are  meant,  and  not  the  nights  ?  And  it  would  be 
an  analogy  of  expression :  it  is  written  here  "  the  days,"  and 
about  the  Lulab  "  the  days "  ;  as  of  the  Lulab  only  days  are 
meant,  and  not  the  nights,  so  also  it  may  be  with  the  Succah  ? 
Or  take  another  way,  the  analogy  of  expression  of  "  the  seven 
days  of  Aaron's  consecration  "  [Lev.  ix.] ;  as  there  the  nights  are 
included,  so  shall  here  also  the  nights  be  included.     Now  let  us 


64  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

see  what  it  resembles  more  :  We  may  draw  a  lesson  about  a  thing 
the  duty  of  which  is  the  whole  day,  from  another  thing  of  which 
the  duty  is  also  the  whole  day,  and  not  draw  the  same  from  a 
thing  the  duty  of  which  is  only  one  hour.  Or  in  another  way  :  We 
shall  draw  a  lesson  about  a  thing  of  which  the  duty  is  forever 
from  a  thing  of  which  the  duty  is  also  forever,  and  not  about 
a  thing  of  which  the  duty  is  forever  from  Aaron's  consecration 
of  which  the  duty  was  only  for  that  time.  Therefore  another 
analogy  of  expression  is  found  :  It  is  written  here :  **  Ye  shall 
dwell,"  and  about  the  seven  days  of  Aaron's  consecration  it  is 
also  written  [Lev.  viii.  35]:  **Ye  shall  dwell";  as  there  it  is 
plainly  written  days  and  nights,  so  is  here  also  meant  days  and 
nights. 

"  In  which  case  is  the  willow  used  seven  days  ?  "  Why  shall  the 
willow  violate  the  Sabbath?  Said  R.  Johanan  :  To  let  the  pub- 
lic know  that  the  willow  is  biblical.  If  it  is  so,  let  the  Lulab  also 
violate  the  Sabbath,  to  make  it  public  that  the  Lulab  is  biblical  ? 
The  precautionary  measure,  which  Rabbi  mentioned  above,  is 
taken  in  reference  to  the  Lulab.  But  why  not  in  reference  to  the 
willow  ?  Because  usually  the  messengers  of  the  Beth  Din  were 
sent  to  take  the  willow  for  the  performance,  but  the  Lulab  was 
taken  by  private  persons.  Said  Rabha  to  R.  Itz'hak  the  son  of 
Rabba  bar  bar  Hana :  Son  of  a  scholar,  come  and  I  will  tell  you 
a  good  thing  that  your  father  said  :  What  we  learn  in  a  Mishna 
farther  on,  that  every  day  they  went  round  the  altar  once,  and  on 
that  day  seven  times,  said  your  father  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar : 
That  is  meant  with  the  Lulab  (not  with  the  willow).  R.  Itz'hak 
objected  :  We  have  learned  in  a  Tosephta :  The  Lulab  violates 
the  Sabbath  in  the  beginning  of  its  duty,  and  the  willow  in  the 
end  of  its  duty.  It  happened  once  that  the  seventh  day  of  the 
willow  fell  on  Sabbath  and  the  branches  of  the  willow  were 
brought  on  the  eve,  and  were  laid  in  the  court  of  the  Temple  ; 
and  when  the  Baithusees  got  wind  of  it,  they  took  the  branches 
of  the  willows,  and  hid  them  under  the  stones  of  the  court.  On 
the  morrow  the  common  people  pulled  them  out  from  beneath 
the  stones,  and  the  priests  erected  them  around  the  altar,  because 
the  Baithusees  do  not  agree  that  the  performance  of  the  duty  of 
willows  violates  the  Sabbath.  Hence  we  see  that  they  performed 
the  religious  ceremony  with  the  willows,  and  not  with  the  Lulab  ? 
The  question  remains :  But  why  did  they  bring  them  on  the  eve 
of  Sabbath,  why  not  on  Sabbath  (let  the  bringing  of  the  wil- 
lows violate  the  Sabbath  as  the  handling  while  the  duty  is  per- 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  65 

formed)  ?  Because  as  we,  who  are  in  exile  and  are  not  certain  of 
the  calendar,  do  not  violate  the  Sabbath  for  the  willow,  they  in 
Palestine  also  do  not  violate  the  Sabbath  for  the  bringing.  But 
we  see  that  on  the  first  day  we  do  not  violate  the  Sabbath  for 
the  Lulab,  and  they  do  ?  It  was  told,  that  now  they  also  do  not 
violate  even  with  the  Lulab. 

Abayi  said  to  Rabha :  Why  do  we  use  the  Lulab  all  the  seven 
days  in  memory  of  the  Temple,  and  not  the  willow  ?  Rabha  an- 
swered :  We  use  the  willow  tied  with  the  Lulab  together  all  the 
seven  days.  Rejoined  Abayi :  But  we  use  it  not  for  the  sake  of 
the  willow,  but  for  the  sake  of  the  Lulab  ;  and  if  you  would  say 
that  we  raise  it  again  for  the  sake  of  the  willow,  we  see  proofs 
every  day  that  we  do  not  do  so.  Said  R.  Zbhid  in  the  name  of 
Rabha :  The  Lulab,  which  is  biblical,  we  use  in  memory  of  the 
Temple  all  the  seven  days,  but  the  willow,  which  is  rabbinical,  we 
do  not  use  so. 

It  was  taught :  R.  Johanan  and  R.  Joshuah  b.  Levi  differ : 
One  says  that  the  basis  of  the  willow  is  a  tradition  from  the 
prophets,  and  one  says  that  the  willow  is  only  a  custom  of  the 
prophets.  From  the  following  saying  of  R.  Abahu  we  may  as- 
sume that  R.  Johanan  is  the  one  who  said  that  the  basis  is  a 
tradition  of  the  prophets,  because  he  said  in  his  name  that  so  said 
R.  Johanan.  Said  R.  Zera  to  R.  Abahu  :  Did  R.  Johanan  say 
so?  Did  he  not  say  in  the  name  of  R.  Nehumia,  the  man  of 
the  valley  of  Beth  Hursa,  that  the  ten  plants  concerning  Kilaim, 
the  willow,  and  the  pouring  of  water  are  Sinaic  laws?  He  was 
astounded  for  a  little  while,  and  said  :  They  were  forgotten  once, 
and  then  reestablished.  But  how  could  R.  Johanan  say  so? 
Did  he  not  say  to  the  sages  of  Palestine :  Do  not  say  that  the 
ordinances  derived  from  the  Torah  are  yours  :  they  are  the  Baby- 
lonians', because  we  have  received  all  our  learning  from  them. 
(R.  Johanan  said  this  when  he  saw  R.  Kahna,  one  of  the  disciples 
of  Rabh,  come  to  Palestine  and  explain  many  questions  which  R. 
Johanan  could  not  decide.)  Hence  we  see  that  R.  Johanan  did 
not  think  that  in  Babylon  the  Torah  was  forgotten,  and  how  can 
it  be  said  it  was  forgotten  ?  It  presents  no  difficulty :  In  the 
Temple  it  was  Sinaic,  but  in  the  country  it  had  for  a  basis  the  tra- 
dition of  the  prophets. 

R.  Ami  said  :  The  willow  has  to  be  of  the  prescribed  size,  and 
must  be  taken  separately,  and  a  man  does  not  fulfil  his  duty  with 
the  willow  which  is  tied  with  the  Lulab.  R.  Hisda  in  the  name 
of  R.  Itz'hak,  however,  said  that  a  man  can  fulfil  his  duty  with 


66  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  willow  which  is  lied  with  the  Lulab.  What  is  the  prescribed 
size  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  :  Three  moist  twigs  with  leaves.  R. 
Shesheth,  however,  said  :  Even  if  there  was  one  leaf  on  one  twig. 
Said  Aibu  :  I  was  standing  in  the  presence  of  R.  Elazar  bar 
Zadok,  and  a  man  brought  a  willow  before  him  ;  and  he  took  the 
willow  into  his  hand,  and  knocked  off  the  leaves,  but  without  any 
benediction,  because  he  held  that  the  willow  was  only  a  custom 
of  the  prophets.  Aibu  and  Hezekiah,  the  grandsons  of  Rabh 
by  his  daughter,  brought  a  willow  to  Rabh,  and  he  also  took  it 
and  knocked  it,  without  benediction,  because  he  also  held  it  was 
only  a  custom  of  the  prophets. 

Aibu  said  again  :  I  was  standing  before  R.  Elazar  bar  R. 
Zadok,  and  a  man  came  to  him  and  said  :  I  possess  some  villages, 
and  the  inhabitants  of  the  villages  weeded  the  orchards  in  the 
Sabbatical  year,  and  for  their  labor  they  ate  the  olives :  did  they 
right,  or  not  ?  R.  Elazar  answered :  It  is  not  right.  And  the 
man  went  away.  Said  R.  Elazar:  I  am  living  in  this  country 
forty  years,  and  I  have  not  seen  a  man  walk  in  the  right  path  as 
this  man.  Afterwards  the  man  came  again,  and  asked  R.  Elazar 
what  he  should  do  in  this  matter,  and  R.  Elazar  told  him  he 
should  abandon  the  olives  to  the  poor,  and  the  laborers  he  should 
pay  from  his  purse. 

Aibu  says  again  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar :  A  man  must  not 
walk  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  more  than  three  Parsaoth.  Said  R. 
Kahna :  The  case  is  when  he  goes  home,  and  his  family  does  not 
know  that  he  will  come,  and  do  not  prepare  anything  for  him  for 
Sabbath  ;  but  if  he  is  going  to  an  inn,  he  may  walk  more,  because 
he  has  prepared  everything  that  is  necessary  for  Sabbath.  Ac- 
cording to  others,  R.  Kahna  said  that  even  to  his  house  he  shall 
not  go,  so  much  the  less  to  an  inn.  And  he  added  to  this :  It 
once  happened  to  me  that  I  was  coming  home  late  on  the  eve  of 
Sabbath,  and  my  family  did  not  expect  me :  I  did  not  find  even 
small  fish  prepared  for  Sabbath. 

"■How  was  the  comma?idment  to  take  the  Lulab  fulfilled!'* 
One  Tana  taught  in  the  presence  of  R.  Na'hman  :  He  deposited 
it  on  the  roof  of  the  gallery.  And  R.  Na'hman  said  to  him  ; 
Why  on  the  roof,  did  he  intend  to  dry  it  ?  Read,  "  on  the 
galleries." 

MISHNA:  How  was  the  command  to  take  the  willow  ful- 
filled ?  There  was  a  place  below  Jerusalem  called  Motza. 
Thither  the  people  descended,  and  gathered  drooping  willow 
branches.     These  they  brought  and  erected  at  the  side  of  the 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  67 

altar,  the  tips  inclining  over  it.  While  this  was  doing,  a  blast,  a 
long  note,  and  again  a  blast  were  blown.  Every  day  they  made 
one  circuit  round  the  altar,  and  recited  the  verse :  "  O  Lord,  help 
us;  O  Lord,  prosper  us."  R.  Jehudah  said  the  words  :  ''  I  and 
he,  help  us,"  were  also  said.  On  the  particular  day  for  using 
the  willows  (the  seventh  of  the  festival)  they  made  seven  circuits 
round  the  altar.  When  they  withdrew,  what  did  they  say  ? 
"  Beauty  is  thine,  O  altar !  Beauty  is  thine,  O  altar !  "  R.  Elazar 
said,  they  also  said  :  ''  To  God  and  to  thee,  O  altar !  To  God 
and  to  thee,  O  altar !  "  As  they  did  on  week-days,  so  did  they 
likewise  on  the  Sabbath  ;  excepting  only  that  they  gathered  the 
willow  branches  on  the  Sabbath-eve  and  put  them  into  golden 
casks  (filled  with  water),  that  they  might  not  fade.  R.  Johanan 
b.  Beroka  said :  They  fetched  branches  of  palms  and  threshed 
them  to  pieces  on  the  sides  of  the  altar.  Thence  the  day  was 
called  "  the  branch-threshing  day."  Directly  afterwards  the  chil- 
dren threw  down  their  Lulabs  and  ate  the  citrons. 

GEMARA:  In  a  Boraitha  it  was  taught:  that  the  place 
where  they  were  taken  was  free  from  taxes,  and  one  Tana  of  the 
Mishna  calls  it  Motza,  because  this  word  signifies  exempt  from 
taxes. 

"  They  brought  and  erected  at  the  side  of  the  altar ^  In  a 
Boraitha  was  taught :  They  were  soft  and  eleven  ells  high,  so 
that  they  could  cover  the  altar  one  ell.  Said  R.  Abahu  :  From 
what  biblical  passage  is  this  inferred  ?  From  Psalm  cxviii.  27  : 
**  Bind  the  festive  sacrifice  with  cords,"  etc.  He  said  again  in  the 
name  of  R.  Elazar :  One  who  takes  the  Lulab  with  its  binding, 
and  the  myrtle  bough  with  its  braiding,  the  verse  makes  him 
equal  to  one  who  would  build  an  altar  and  offer  a  sacrifice  on  it, 
and  he  infers  it  from  the  end  of  the  passage  just  quoted.  Hezekiah 
said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jeremiah,  quoting  R.  Simeon  b.  Jochai, 
and  R,  Johanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  the  Mehuzi,  quoting 
R.  Johanan  the  Mekuthi  :  One  who  added  a  day  to  the  festival 
for  eating  and  drinking,  the  verse  makes  him  equal  to  one  who 
built  an  altar  and  offered  a  sacrifice  on  it,  as  it  is  written  :  "  Bind 
the  festive  sacrifice  with  cords  (leading  it)  up  to  the  horns  of 
the  altar." 

Hezekiah  said  again  in  the  name  of  R.  Jeremiah,  quoting  R. 
Simeon  b.  Jochai :  All  the  prescribed  plants  for  religious  duties 
must  be  taken  as  they  grow,  as  it  is  written  [Ex.  xxvi.  15]: 
"  Shittim  wood,  standing  up."  Hezekiah  said  again  in  the  name 
of  the  same  authority :  I  could  exempt  the  whole  world  from  the 


68  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Day  of  Judgment  since  I  was  born  till  now  ;  and  if  Eliezer  my  son 
would  be  with  me,  I  could  do  it  for  all  men  since  the  world  was 
created  till  now.  And  if  King  Jotham  ben  Uzziah  would  be  with 
us,  we  could  do  it  for  all  men  from  the  creation  of  the  world  till  its 
end.  The  same  says  again  in  the  name  of  the  same :  I  see  the 
greatest  men  in  the  world  are  very  few.  If  they  are  a  thousand, 
I  and  my  son  are  included ;  if  they  are  a  hundred,  I  and  my  son 
are  included,  and  if  they  are  only  two,  they  are  I  and  my  son. 
Said  Abayi :  There  are  no  less  than  thirty-six  upright  men  in  the 
world  who  receive  appearance  of  the  Shekhina  every  day,  as  it  is 
written  [Is.  xxx.  i8]  :  "  Happy  are  all  those  that  wait  for  him," 
and  him  is  expressed  by  I7,  which  counts  thirty-six. 

*'  To  God  and  to  theeT  How  did  they  do  so?  Did  they  not 
combine  the  name  of  the  Lord  with  another  thing,  and  we  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha :  Who  combines  the  name  of  the  Lord  with 
another  thing,  will  be  destroyed  from  the  world  ?  As  it  is  written 
[Ex.  xxii.  19]  :  **  Save  unto  the  Lord  only."  The  Mishna  meant 
it  was  said  so :  *'  To  God  we  bow,  and  Thee  we  praise." 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said :  The  benediction 
over  the  Lulab  must  be  pronounced  all  the  seven  days,  but  in 
the  Succah  the  benediction  must  be  made  only  the  first  day. 
Why  so  ?  Because  the  nights  intervene  between  the  days,  and 
every  day  it  is  a  separate  commandment ;  but  in  case  of  the 
Succah,  which  is  a  duty  during  the  nights  also,  all  the  seven  days 
are  considered  as  one  long  day,  and  one  benediction  is  enough. 
Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  however,  said : 
The  benediction  over  the  Succah  must  be  pronounced  all  the 
seven  days,  but  over  the  Lulab  only  the  first  day.  Why  so  ? 
Because  the  Succah  is  biblical,  the  benediction  is  to  be  made 
every  time  ;  but  the  Lulab  being  rabbinical,  it  is  sufficient  on  the 
first  day.  When  Rabbin  came  from  Palestine,  he  said  in  the  name 
of  R.  Johanan,  that  over  both  it  is  to  be  pronounced  every  day 
all  the  seven  days.  Said  R.  Joseph  :  Keep  what  Rabba  bar  bar 
Hana  said  in  your  mind,  because  all  the  Amoraim  hold  with  him 
concerning  Succah.  Other  Tanaim,  however,  differ  also  on  the 
same  point.  As  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha :  Over 
the  Tefilin,  every  time  one  lays  them,  one  must  pronounce  a  bene- 
diction. So  is  the  decree  of  Rabbi.  The  sages,  however,  said  : 
In  the  morning  only.  And  it  was  taught  Abayi  said  the 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  Rabbi,  and  Rabba  said  the  Ha- 
lakha  prevails  according  to  the  sages.  Said  R.  Mari  the  son  of 
the  daughter  of  Samuel :  I  have  seen  Rabba  did  not  follow  his 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  69 

own  decision,  and  we  also  all  are  doing  according  to  Rabbi,  and 
pronounce  the  benediction  on  every  one  of  the  seven  days. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said  :  The  commandment 
of  the  Lulab  is  all  the  seven  days ;  but  R.  Joshuah  b.  Levi  said : 
The  biblical  commandment  is  only  for  the  first  day,  and  from 
this  day  further  on  it  is  the  commandment  of  the  Elders ;  and  so 
said  also  R.  Itz'hak.  Rabh,  however,  holds  that  the  command- 
ment is  for  all  seven  days,  and  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  taught 
plainly  that  Rabh  said  so. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  made  a  Succah  for  himself,  he  must 
pronounce  the  benediction  of  the  time.  When  he  comes  to  dwell 
in  it,  he  must  pronounce  the  benediction  :  **  Blessed  be  He,  etc., 
who  has  commanded  us  to  dwell  in  a  Succah  "  ;  but  if  the  Succah 
had  been  prepared,  if  he  is  able  to  fix  there  something  new,  he 
may  pronounce  the  benediction  of  the  time ;  if  not,  when  he 
comes  to  dwell  in  it,  he  should  pronounce  both  benedictions. 
Said  R.  Ashi :  I  have  seen  R.  Kahna,  who  used  to  pronounce  all 
the  benedictions  over  the  goblet,  together  with  the  benediction 
of  the  day. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  have  before  himself  many  religious 
duties,  he  can  say  :  *'  Blessed  be  He  who  has  sanctified  us  with  His 
commandments,  and  commanded  to  us  many  duties."  R.  Jehu- 
dah, however,  said  :  He  must  pronounce  the  benediction  before 
each  one  separately.  Said  R.  Zera,  according  to  others  R.  Ha- 
nina  bar  Papa:  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah. 
And  he  (either  of  the  two  mentioned)  says  again  :  What  is  the 
reason  of  R.  Jehudah?  Because  it  is  written  [Ps.  Ixviii.  20]: 
"  Blessed  be  the  Lord,  day  by  day."  Do  we  only  bless  Him  by 
day,  and  not  by  night  ?  We  may  learn  from  this  that  every  day 
we  should  bless  Him  for  the  duties  of  that  day  (if  Sabbath,  we 
must  bless  Him  for  the  Sabbath  ;  if  a  festival,  for  the  duties 
belonging  to  each  festival).  The  same  authority  says  again : 
Come  and  see.  The  usages  of  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
are  not  as  the  usages  of  human  beings :  A  human  being  can 
put  only  something  into  an  empty  vessel,  but  if  the  vessel  is 
full,  he  can  put  in  nothing ;  but  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
can  add  to  a  full  vessel,  but  can  put  nothing  into  an  empty  one, 
as  it  is  written  [Deut.  xxviii.  i]  :  ''  If  thou  wilt  hearken  dili- 
gently " ;  *  i.e.,  if   you    have   heard    diligently,    you    can    receive 


*  The  Hebrew  term  for  this  is  yo^n  yOS5',  which  is  literally,  ' '  by  hearing  you  will 
hear  more." 


70  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

more  knowledge,  but  if  not  diligently,  you  can  hear  nothing. 
Another  interpretation  for  this  verse  is  this :  If  you  have  given 
your  attention  to  what  you  have  learned  before,  you  can  learn 
from  it  new  things  ;  but  if  you  have  turned  away  your  heart  from 
the  old  teaching,  you  cannot  learn  anything  new. 

''  The  children  threw  down!'  etc.  Said  R.  Johanan  :  The  citron 
on  the  seventh  day  is  prohibited  to  be  eaten,  but  on  the  eighth 
day  it  is  allowed  ;  but  the  wood  of  the  Succah,  even  on  the  eighth 
day,  is  not  allowed  to  be  used.  Resh  Lakish,  however,  said  : 
Even  on  the  seventh  day  the  citron  is  allowed.  R.  Johanan 
made  an  objection  to  Resh  Lakish  from  our  Mishna :  The  chil- 
dren throw  down  their  Lulabs  and  eat  their  citrons.  From  this 
we  may  infer  that  only  the  children  may  do  so,  but  not  adults. 
Answered  Resh  Lakish :  Nay,  adults  may  also  do  so,  but  the 
Mishna  mentions  children  because  it  was  usually  done  so.  R. 
Papa  asked  Abayi :  What  is  the  reason  that  R.  Johanan  makes 
a  difference  between  the  Succah  and  the  citron  ?  And  he  an- 
swered :  The  Succah  is  fit  for  twilight,  so  that  if  one  had  to  eat 
at  twilight,  he  must  sit  in  the  Succah  and  eat  there ;  and  because 
it  was  designated  for  twilight,  it  is  designated  for  the  whole  eighth 
day ;  but  the  citron,  which  is  not  to  be  used  at  twilight,  and  Avas 
not  designated  for  the  twilight,  is  not  designated  for  the  v/hole 
eighth  day.  Levi,  however,  said  :  The  citron  is  prohibited  even 
on  the  eighth  day.  And  the  father  of  Samuel  said  :  On  the  sev- 
enth day  it  is  not  allowed,  but  on  the  eighth  day  it  is  allowed. 
The  father  of  Samuel  afterwards  retracted  his  teaching,  and  re- 
mained in  accordance  with  the  system  of  Levi.  R.  Zera,  how- 
ever, remains  in  accordance  with  the  old  teaching  of  the  father  of 
Samuel,  and  taught  in  the  house  of  learning  that  a  citron  which 
becomes  invalid  must  not  be  eaten  all  the  seven  days.  R.  Zera 
said  again  :  One  must  not  give  as  a  present  to  a  child  a  Lulab  on 
the  first  day  of  the  festival.  Why  so  ?  Because  a  child  may  re- 
ceive a  present,  but  cannot  make  a  present  to  another ;  and  after- 
wards if  the  man  uses  the  Lulab  for  the  religious  purpose,  he  has 
used  a  thing  which  is  not  his  (by  which  he  cannot  fulfil  his  duty). 
He  says  again  :  A  man  shall  not  promise  a  child  something,  and 
afterwards  not  keep  his  word,  for  the  child  can  learn  from  it  to 
tell  a  lie. 

We  in  exile,  who  keep  two  days  of  the  festival,  how  shall  we 
do  ?  Said  Abayi :  On  the  eighth  day,  which  it  is  doubtful  per- 
haps it  is  the  seventh,  it  is  prohibited  ;  but  the  ninth  day,  which 
it  is  doubtful  perhaps  it  is  the  eighth,  it  is  allowed.     Meremar, 


TRACT   SUCCAH. 


71 


however,  said  :  Even  on  the  eighth  day,  which  it  is  doubtful  per- 
haps it  is  the  seventh,  it  is  also  allowed.  In  Sura  they  acted 
according  to  Meremar ;  but  R.  Shesheth  the  son  of  R.  Iddi 
acted  according  to  Abayi,  and  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to 
Abayi. 

R.  Jehudah  the  son  of  Samuel  bar  Shilath  said  in  the  name 
of  Rabh  :  The  eighth  day,  which  it  is  doubtful  whether  it  is  not 
the  seventh,  may  be  considered  as  the  seventh  day  in  reference 
to  the  Succah,  but  is  considered  the  eighth  day  in  reference  to 
the  benediction.  R.  Johanan,  however,  said  :  It  may  be  consid- 
ered the  eighth  day  for  both  purposes.  (The  Gemara  explains 
it  so) :  In  reference  to  the  benediction,  all  agree  that  the  benedic- 
tion may  not  be  said.  What  they  differ  about  is  only  the 
citron.  According  to  Rabh,  on  the  eighth  day  one  must  sit  in 
the  Succah,  and  according  to  R.  Johanan,  even  sitting  is  not 
necessary  either.  Said  R.  Joseph  :  Keep  in  your  mind  what  R. 
Johanan  said,  because  the  Master  of  this  Halakha,  R.  Jehudah  bar 
Samuel,  who  declared  it  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  did  not  act  accord- 
ing to  his  teaching,  and  we  have  seen  him  on  the  eighth  day 
sitting  outside  of  the  Succah.  The  Halakha  prevails :  That  we 
do  sit  in  the  Succah,  but  do  not  pronounce  the  benediction 
over  it. 

R.  Johanan  said :  The  benediction  of  the  time  must  be  pro- 
nounced on  the  eighth  day  of  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  but  not 
on  the  seventh  day  of  Passover.  Said  R.  Levi  bar  Hama,  accord- 
ing to  others  R.  Hama  bar  Hanina :  This  may  be  approved, 
because  the  eighth  day  of  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  is  different  in 
three  things  from  the  preceding  days :  It  needs  not  Succah,  it 
needs  not  Lulab,  nor  the  pouring  of  water.  If  it  is  so,  the 
seventh  day  of  Passover  is  also  different,  because  it  is  not  a  duty 
to  eat  Matzah  thereon,  as  the  Master  said  (p.  33)  that  only  the 
first  night  it  is  a  duty  to  eat  Matzah?  What  comparison  is  this? 
There  it  is  different  only  from  the  first  night,  but  not  from  the 
first  day  ;  but  here  it  is  different  from  the  day  also.  Rabhina  said  : 
The  eighth  day  of  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  is  different  from  the 
preceding  day  ;  but  the  seventh  day  of  Passover  differs  only  from 
the  first  day,  but  not  from  the  one  preceding  it.  How  shall  we 
act  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  :  The  benediction  of  the  time  may  be 
said  on  the  eighth  day,  and  R.  Shesheth  said  it  must  not,  and  the 
Halakha  prevails  that  it  may  be  said.  We  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha  in  support  to  R.  Na'hman  :  The  eighth  day  is  a  holy 
day  by  itself,  has  lots  cast  for  itself  (which  priest  should  perform 


72  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  service  of  the  sacrifice,  as  is  explained  in  Shekalim),  the  bene- 
diction of  time  for  itself,  offerings  for  itself,  a  separate  song 
for  itself  (all  seven  days  one  song  was  sung  by  the  Levites  at 
the  sacrifice),  and  also  a  blessing  for  itself  ("  the  eighth  day  of 
assembly  "  was  pronounced  in  the  benediction). 

MISHNA:  The  Hallel  and  the  enjoying  of  peace-offerings 
were  eight  days.  How  so  ?  We  infer  from  this,  that  a  man  is 
bound  to  recite  the  Hallel  and  enjoy  the  peace-offerings  the  last 
day  of  the  festival  the  same  as  the  preceding  days. 

GEMARA  :  Where  is  this  deduced  from  ?  The  rabbis  taught : 
It  is  written  [Deut.  xvi.  15]  :  ''  Thou  shalt  only  rejoice  "  ;  it  comes 
to  add  the  night  of  the  last  day  of  the  festival,  and  to  exclude  the 
night  of  the  first  day.  But  perhaps  it  is  meant  only  for  the  first 
day?  The  word  (acA)  **  only  "  separates  it.  But  why  do  you  in- 
clude the  last  day,  and  exclude  the  first  day  ?  I  include  the  last 
night,  before  which  there  was  enjoyment ;  but  I  exclude  the  first 
night,  before  which  was  no  enjoyment. 

MISHNA:  The  Succah  is  dwelt  in  seven  days.  How  so? 
When  a  man  has  taken  his  last  meal  therein,  he  is  not  directly  to 
pull  down  his  Succah  ;  but,  after  noon,  he  may  move  the  furni- 
ture back  into  the  house,  in  honor  of  the  last  day  of  the  festival. 

How  was  the  pouring  out  of  the  water?  A  golden  pitcher 
that  held  three  lugs  was  filled  with  water  from  the  brook  Siloah. 
When  they  came  with  it  to  the  water-gate,  they  blew  a  blast,  a 
long  note,  and  again  a  blast.  The  priest  then  ascended  the  stair  of 
the  altar,  and  turned  to  the  left.  Two  silver  basins  stood  there. 
R.  Jehudah  says :  They  were  of  gypsum,  but  had  a  dark  appear- 
ance from  the  wine.  Each  was  perforated  with  a  small  hole,  like 
a  nostril  (at  the  bottom),  the  one  for  the  wine  somewhat  wider, 
the  other  for  the  water  narrower,  that  both  might  get  empty  at 
once.  The  one,  to  the  west,  was  used  for  water ;  the  other,  to  the 
east,  for  the  wine.  But  if  the  water  was  poured  into  the  wine 
basin,  or  the  wine  into  the  water  basin,  one's  duty  was  reckoned 
to  be  fulfilled.  R.  Jehudah  says :  They  poured  out  one  lug  on 
each  of  the  eight  days.  To  him  who  poured  out  the  water  the 
people  called :  "  Raise  thy  hand " ;  for  once  it  happened  that 
one  priest  charged  with  this  duty  poured  the  water  over  his  feet, 
and  all  the  people  pelted  him  with  their  citrons.  As  they  did  on 
the  week-days,  so  they  did  likewise  on  the  Sabbath,  except  that 
they  fetched  the  water  from  the  Siloah  on  the  Sabbath  eve  in  a 
golden  cask  that  had  not  been  consecrated,  and  placed  it  in  a 
chamber;  if  it  was  upset  or  uncovered,  they  filled  again  from  the 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  73 

laver.  For  it  was  not  lawful  to  bring  on  the  altar  water  or  wine 
which  had  been  uncovered. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  it  deduced?  Said  R.  Eina :  It  is 
written  [Is.  xii.  3]  :  ''  Ye  shall  draw  water  with  gladness." 

''Ascended  the  stair,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  All  who 
ascended  the  altar  ascended  on  the  right,  went  round,  and  de- 
scended on  the  left ;  except  that  those  who  ascended  for  the 
following  three  purposes  (duties)  ascended  on  the  left,  and  went 
back  on  the  same  side :  to  pour  water,  to  pour  wine,  and  to  offer 
a  burnt-offering  of  a  fowl  when  it  was  too  much  on  the  east 
side  of  the  altar.* 

"Each  was  perforated**  etc.  Shall  we  assume  that  the 
Mishna  is  according  to  R.  Jehudah  and  not  according  to  the 
sages,  as  it  teaches  farther  on :  *'  R.  Jehudah  said  with  a  lug," 
etc. ;  because  if  the  Mishna  would  be  according  to  the  sages,  the 
quantity  of  the  wine  and  water  was  equal  ?  (And  why  was  one 
wider,  and  the  other  narrower?)  Nay,  we  may  say  the  Mishna  is 
according  to  the  sages ;  but  wine  is  thick,  and  water  is  thinner, 
and  this  is  the  reason  for  the  unequal  sizes  of  the  holes.  It  seems 
to  us  it  is  so,  for  according  to  R.  Jehudah  one  must  be  wide  and 
the  other  narrow,  as  we  learn  in  the  following  Boraitha :  R. 
Jehudah  said  :  Two  urns  were  there,  one  for  water  and  one  for 
wine :  that  for  wine  had  its  mouth  wide,  and  that  for  water  nar- 
row, that  they  should  be  emptied  at  the  same  time. 

Rabha  lectured :  It  is  written  [Song  of  Songs,  vii.  2]  :  "  How 
beautiful  are  thy  steps  in  sandals,  O  prince's  daughter !  "  How 
beautiful  were  the  steps  of  Israel,  when  they  pilgrimaged  for  the 
festival !  "  Prince's  daughter  "  means,  daughter  of  Abraham  our 
father,  who  was  called  prince ;  as  it  is  written  [Ps.  xlvii.  10]  : 
"  The  nobles  of  the  people  are  gathered  together,  the  people  of 
the  God  of  Abraham."  The  God  of  Abraham,  and  not  the  God 
of  Isaac  and  Jacob  ?  It  means,  the  God  of  Abraham,  who  was 
the  first  of  the  proselytes. 

The  disciples  of  R.  Anan  taught :  It  is  written  [Song  of  Songs, 
ibid.] :  ''  The  roundings  of  thy  thighs."  As  the  thighs  are 
in  a  hidden  place,  so  the  words  of  the  Law  must  all  be  hidden,  and 
this  is  similar  to  what  R.  Elazar  said,  as  follows :  It  is  written 
[Micah,  vi.  8]  :  "  He  hath  told  thee,  O  man,  what  is  good,  and 
what  the  Lord  doth  require  of  thee  :  nothing  but  to  do  justice,  and 

*  The  burnt-offerings  and  east  side  of  the  altar  will  be  explained  in  Tract 
Tamid,  Chap.  I. 


74  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

to  love  kindness,  and  to  walk  humbly  with  thy  God."  To  do  jus- 
tice, i.e.,  judgment ;  to  love  kindness,  i.e.,  the  bestowing  of  favors  ; 
and  to  walk  humbly  with  thy  God,  that  means,  to  bear  a  dead  body, 
and  to  conduct  a  bride  under  the  canopy.  Is  this  not  an  a  fortiori 
conclusion?  If  things  usually  done  publicly  are  to  be  done  sur- 
reptitiously, so  much  the  more  things  usually  done  privately  ? 

R.  Elazar  said  :  The  doing  of  charity  is  greater  than  all  the 
sacrifices ;  as  it  is  written  [Prov.  xxi.  3]  :  "  To  exercise  righteous- 
ness and  justice  is  more  acceptable  to  the  Lord  than  sacrifice." 
The  same  says  again :  The  bestowing  of  favors  is  greater  than 
charity ;  as  it  is  written  [Hosea,  x.  12]  :  "  Sow  then  for  yourselves 
righteousness,  that  you  may  reap  the  fruit  of  kindness."  If  a 
man  sows,  it  is  doubtful  whether  he  will  eat  from  his  sowing,  or 
not ;  but  if  a  man  reaps,  he  is  sure  to  eat  of  it  (and  so  it  is  with 
charity,  sometimes  it  is  useful,  sometimes  not,  but  kindness  is 
always  so). 

R.  Elazar  says  again  :  Charity  is  rewarded  only  according  to 
the  kindness  with  which  it  is  done ;  as  it  is  written :  **  Sow  for 
yourselves  righteousness,  that  you  may  reap  kindness." 

The  rabbis  taught :  In  three  things  is  the  bestowing  of  favors 
greater  than  charity :  Charity  is  only  with  money,  but  the  be- 
stowing of  favors  is  either  with  one's  money  or  with  one's 
person  ;  charity  is  only  to  poor  men,  but  the  bestowing  of 
favors  is  to  poor  and  rich ;  charity  is  only  for  the  living,  but 
the  bestowing  of  favors  is  both  for  the  living  and  the  dead. 
The  same  says  again :  One  who  does  charity  and  judgment  is  as 
if  he  filled  the  whole  world  with  kindness ;  as  it  is  written  [Ps. 
xxxiii.  5]:  "He  loveth  righteousness  and  justice;  the  earth  is 
full  of  the  kindness  of  the  Lord."  But  if  you  mean  that  every 
one  who  wants  to  do  charity  is  given  the  opportunity  to  do  real 
charity,  it  is  therefore  written  [ibid,  xxxvi.  8]  :  '*  How  precious 
is  thy  kindnes3!"  It  is  different,  however,  with  a  man  fearing 
Heaven;  as  it  is  written  [ibid.  ciii.  17]:  "But  the  kindness  of 
the  Lord  is  from  everlasting  to  everlasting  over  those  that  fear 
him!'  R.  Hama  bar  Papa  said :  A  man  who  finds  favor  every- 
where, it  is  certain  that  he  fears  God  ;  as  it  is  written  :  "  The 
kindness  of  the  Lord  is  from  everlasting  to  everlasting  over  those 
that  fear  him." 

He  says  again :  It  is  written  [Prov.  xxxi.  26] :  "  She  openeth 
her  mouth  with  wisdom,  and  the  law  of  kindness  is  on  her 
tongue."  Are  there  two  laws,  one  of  kindness,  and  one  not 
pf  kindness  ?     That  means,  if  one  studies  the  law  in  honor  of  the 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  75 

Lord,  it  is  a  law  of  kindness ;  but  if  one  studies  the  law  for  his 
own  interest,  it  is  a  law  not  of  kindness.  According  to  others,  if 
he  studies  the  law  to  teach  it,  it  is  a  law  of  kindness ;  but  if  he 
studies  it  for  himself,  it  is  not. 

*'  //  it  ivas  upset  or  uncovered,'  etc.  Why  so  ?  He  can  strain 
the  water?  Shall  we  assume  that  our  Mishna  is  not  according  to 
R.  Nehemiah  from  the  following  Boraitha  :  Even  if  the  water  was 
strained,  the  law  of  uncovered  water  does  still  apply  to  it.  R. 
Nehemiah,  however,  said  :  This  is  only  when  the  lower  vessel  was 
uncovered,  but  when  the  lower  vessel  was  covered,  though  the 
upper  one  was  uncovered,  the  law  of  uncovered  water  does  not 
apply  to  it,  because  the  venom  of  a  snake,  like  a  sponge,  rises  to 
the  top.  The  Mishna  can  apply  also  to  R.  Nehemiah,  but  he 
spoke  of  preparing  for  an  ordinary  man,  but  in  honor  of  the  Lord 
could  he  say  so?  Did  not  R.  Nehemiah  consider  the  verse  in 
Malachi  [i.  8]  :  "■  Do  but  present  it  unto  thy  governor,  will  he  be 
pleased  with  thee,  or  receive  thee  with  favor  ?  says  the  Lord  of 
hosts." 


CHAPTER   V. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  ENJOYMENTS  AND  THE  SONGS  IN 
THE  TEMPLE  DURING  THE  TIME  OF  THE  SACRIFICES,  AND  THEIR 
ORDER. 

MISHNA:  The  pipes  were  played  sometimes  on  five  days, 
and  sometimes  six.  This  means,  the  pipes  played  on  during  the 
time  of  water-drawing,  which  does  not  supersede  either  the  Sab- 
bath or  the  festival. 

GEMARA :  The  rabbis  taught :  The  playing  of  pipes  super- 
sedes the  Sabbath,  so  is  the  decree  of  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah;  but 
the  sages  said,  even  the  festival  it  does  not  supersede.  Said  R. 
Joseph  :  They  differ  only  about  the  music  of  the  sacrifices.  R. 
Jose  holds  that  the  music  of  the  sacrifices  is  instrumental,  conse- 
quently it  is  a  service,  and  supersedes  the  Sabbath  ;  but  the  sages 
hold  it  is  vocal,  and  therefore  not  a  service,  and  does  not  super- 
sede the  Sabbath  ;  but  the  music  of  the  drawing  of  the  water  all 
agree  is  only  an  enjoyment,  and  does  not  supersede  the  Sab- 
bath. But  R.  Jeremiah  bar  Abba  said :  They  differ  only  about 
the  music  of  the  drawing  of  water.  R.  Jose  bar  R.  Jehudah  holds 
that  this  enjoyment  also  supersedes  the  Sabbath,  and  the  sages 
hold  it  does  not ;  but  about  the  music  of  the  sacrifice  all  agree  it 
is  a  service,  and  does  supersede  the  Sabbath. 

What  is  the  reason  of  those  who  say  that  the  main  music  must 
be  instrumental?  Because  it  is  written  [II  Chron.  xxix.  27]; 
**  And  Hezekiah  ordered  to  offer  the  burnt-offering  on  the  altar. 
And  when  the  burnt-offering  began,  the  song  of  the  Lord  began 
with  the  trumpets,  and  with  the  instruments  of  David  the  King  of 
Israel."  And  what  is  the  reason  of  those  who  said  the  main  music 
is  vocal?  Because  it  is  written  [ibid.  v.  13]  :  "And  it  came  thus 
to  pass,  as  the  trumpeters  and  singers  were  as  one,  to  make 
one  sound."  But  what  will  they  do  with  the  former  passage  ? 
Hezekiah  meant,  the  voices  accompanied  the  instruments.  And 
those  who  hold  it  was  only  instrumental,  what  will  they  say  to 
the  last-quoted  passage  ?  They  explain  it  thus :  The  singers 
were  as  the  trumpeters,  i.e.,  used  instruments  also. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  77 

MISHNA :  He  who  has  not  witnessed  the  rejoicings  at  the 
water-drawing  has,  throughout  the  whole  of  his  Hfe,  witnessed  no 
real  rejoicing.  At  the  expiration  of  the  first  holiday  of  the  fes- 
tival they  descended  into  the  women's  court,  where  a  great 
transformation  was  made.  Golden  candelabra  were  placed  there, 
with  four  golden  basins  at  the  top  of  each  ;  and  four  ladders  were 
put  to  each  candelabrum,  on  which  stood  four  lads  from  the 
rising  youth  of  the  priesthood,  holding  jars  of  oil  containing  120 
lugs,  with  which  they  replenished  each  basin. 

The  cast-off  breeches  and  belts  of  the  priests  were  torn  into 
shreds  for  wicks,  which  they  lighted.  There  was  not  a  court  in 
Jerusalem  that  was  not  illuminated  by  the  lights  of  the  water- 
drawing.  Pious  and  distinguished  men  danced  before  the  people 
with  lighted  flambeaux  in  their  hands,  and  sang  hymns  and  lauds 
before  them ;  and  the  Levites  accompanied  them  with  harps, 
psalteries,  cymbals,  and  numberless  musical  instruments.  On  the 
fifteen  steps  which  led  into  the  women's  court,  corresponding 
with  the  fifteen  songs  of  degrees,  stood  the  Levites,  with  their 
musical  instruments,  and  sang.  At  the  upper  gate  which  leads 
down  from  the  court  of  the  Israelites  to  the  court  of  the  women 
stood  two  priests,  with  trumpets  in  their  hands.  When  the  cock 
first  crowed  they  blew  a  blast,  a  long  note,  and  a  blast.  This 
they  repeated  when  they  reached  the  tenth  step,  and  again  (the 
third  time)  when  they  got  into  the  court.  They  went  on,  blow- 
ing their  trumpets  as  they  went,  until  they  reached  the  gate  that 
leads  out  to  the  east.  When  they  reached  that  gate  they  turned 
westward,  with  their  faces  towards  the  Temple,  and  said  :  Our 
ancestors,  who  were  in  this  place,  turned  their  backs  on  the  Tem- 
ple of  the  Lord,  and  their  faces  towards  the  east ;  for  they  wor- 
shipped the  sun  towards  the  east ;  but  we  lift  our  eyes  to  God. 
R.  Jehudah  says :  They  repeated  again  and  again  :  "  We  belong 
to  God,  and  raise  our  eyes  to  God." 

GEMARA  :  The  rabbis  taught :  Who  has  not  seen  the  rejoic- 
ing at  the  drawing  of  water,  has  not  seen  a  real  rejoicing  in 
his  life.  He  who  has  not  seen  Jerusalem  in  its  beauty,  has  not 
seen  a  beautiful  great  city  in  his  whole  life ;  and  who  has  not 
seen  the  building  of  the  Second  Temple,  has  not  seen  a  handsome 
building  in  his  life.  What  is  meant  by  this  ?  Said  Abayi,  accord- 
ing to  others  R.  Hisda :  It  means  the  building  of  Herod.  Of 
what  materials  was  it  built  ?  Said  Rabba :  Of  black  and  white 
marble ;  and  according  to  others,  of  other  colors  also.  He  made 
one  tier  of   stones  projecting  outward,  and   one  tier  of   stones 


78  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

remaining  inside.  He  wished  to  overlay  it  with  gold,  but  the 
sages  said  to  him :  Leave  it  so,  because  it  is  more  beautiful,  hav- 
ing the  appearance  of  waves  of  the  sea. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jehudah  said:  Who  has 
not  seen  the  dinXo  (Xroa  (diuplustin,  double  portico)  of  Alex- 
andria in  Egypt,  has  not  seen  the  glory  of  Israel.  It  was  said  it 
was  a  great  paaikixv  (a  palace  with  colonnades),  and  the  palace 
could  contain  twice  the  number  of  men  who  went  out  from  Egypt 
(the  Israelites),  and  there  were  seventy-one  golden  cathedras  (arm- 
chairs with  footstools)  for  the  seventy-one  sages  of  the  Great 
Sanhedrin,  and  each  cathedra  was  no  less  than  twenty-one 
myriads  of  talents  of  gold  ;  and  a  wooden  ^riixa  (pulpit)  was  in 
the  middle  of  the  palace,  where  the  sexton  of  the  congregation 
stood,  with  a  flag  in  his  hand,  and  when  the  time  came  in  the 
prayer  to  respond  "  Amen,"  he  raised  the  flag,  and  the  whole 
people  said  "■  Amen."  And  they  did  not  sit  promiscuously,  but 
separately  ;  the  golden  chairs  were  separate,  the  silver  chairs  were 
separate,  smiths  sat  separately,  carpenters  separately,  and  all  of 
the  different  trades  sat  separately,  and  when  a  poor  man  went  in,  he 
recognized  who  his  fellow-tradesmen  were,  and  went  to  them,  and 
thus  got  there  work  for  the  support  of  himself  and  his  family. 
Said  Abayi :  And  all  these  were  killed  by  Alexander  of  Macedon. 
Why  were  they  so  punished  ?  Because  they  had  transgressed 
the  passage  [Deut.  xvii.  i6]  :  "The  Lord  had  said  unto  you.  Ye 
shall  henceforth  not  return  on  that  way  any  more."  And  they 
returned,  and  resided  in  Egypt.  When  Alexander  came,  he  found 
them  reading  the  passage  [ibid,  xxviii.  49]  :  *'  The  Lord  will 
bring  up  against  thee  a  nation  from  afar,"  etc.,  and  he  said :  "  I 
had  to  go  ten  days  on  board  the  ship,  and  the  winds  blew  and 
brought  me  here  in  five  days  (certainly  I  was  meant  by  the  quoted 
passage)  "  ;  and  he  killed  them. 

'■'At  the  expiration  of  the  first  holy  day,''  etc.  What  was  the 
transformation?  Said  R.  Eleazar:  Similar  to  what  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Boraitha :  The  court  of  the  women  was 
formerly  without  a  balcony,  but  they  surrounded  it  with  a  bal- 
cony, and  ordained  that  the  women  should  sit  above  and  the 
men  below. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Formerly  the  women  sat  in  inward 
chambers  and  the  men  in  outer  ones ;  but  thereby  was  produced 
some  levity,  and  therefore  it  was  ordained  the  men  should  sit 
inwardly  and  the  women  outwardly ;  but  still  levity  arose,  and 
therefore  it  was  ordained  that  the  women  sit  above  and  the  men 


TRACT  SUCCAH.  79 

below.  How  could  they  do  so  ?  Does  not  the  passage  say  [in 
I  Chron.  xxviii.  19]:  "All  was  put  in  writing  from  the  hand  of 
the  Lord,  who  gave  me  instruction  respecting  all  the  works  of 
the  pattern  "  ?  Said  Rabh :  They  found  another  passage  and 
lectured  about  it,  namely  [Zech.,  xii.  12]:  "And  the  land  will 
mourn,  every  family  apart  by  itself,  the  family  of  the  house  of 
David  apart,  and  their  wives  apart."  And  they  said  :  Is  this  not 
an  a  fortiori  conclusion  ?  At  the  time  of  mourning,  when  the 
passions  are  powerless,  it  is  said  the  women  and  the  men  should 
be  separate ;  so  much  the  more  in  the  Temple,  where  they  were 
occupied  in  rejoicing,  and  the  passions  can  have  power  over 
them. 

What  was  the  mourning  for  ?  R.  Dosa  and  the  rabbis  differ : 
One  holds  that  it  was  for  the  Messiah  the  son  of  Joseph,  who  was 
killed  ;*  and  one  holds  that  it  was  for  the  evil  angel,  who  was 
killed.f  It  would  be  right  according  to  one  who  holds  that  it 
was  for  the  Messiah  the  son  of  Joseph,  because  he  explains  as 
supporting  him  the  passage  [Zech.  xii.  10]:  "  And  they  will  look 
up  toward  me  (for  every  one)  whom  they  have  thrust  through, 
and  they  will  lament  for  him,  as  one  lamenteth  for  an  only  son, 
and  weep  bitterly  for  him,  as  one  weepeth  bitterly  for  the  first- 
born ";  but  according  to  one  who  says  that  it  was  for  the  death  of 
the  evil  angel,  why  mourning?  must  it  not  be,  on  the  contrary,  an 
enjoyment?  Why  then  weeping?  This  can  be  explained  as  R. 
Jehudah  lectured :  In  the  future  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
will  bring  the  evil  angel  and  slaughter  him  in  the  presence  of 
both  the  upright  and  the  wicked.  To  the  former  he  will  look 
like  a  high  mountain,  and  to  the  latter  he  will  look  like  a  thin 
hair.  Both,  however,  will  cry.  The  upright  will  cry,  saying : 
How  could  we  overpower  such  a  high  mountain  ?  and  the  wicked 
will  cry,  saying  :  How  could  we  not  subdue  such  a  thin  hair?  And 
also  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will  join  them  in  wondering,  as 
it  is  written  [Zech.  viii.  6]  :  ''Thus  hath  said  the  Lord  of  hosts  :  If  it 


*  There  was  a  tradition  among  the  ancient  Hebrews  that  two  Messiahs  would  ap- 
pear before  the  redemption  of  Israel  :  one  of  the  tribe  of  Joseph  and  one  of  the  tribe 
of  Jehudah,  a  descendant  of  David;  and  the  expression  "who  was  killed"  means 
who  will  have  been  killed.  The  Jewish  Christians  at  that  time,  who  did  not  believe 
in  the  divinity  of  Christ,  but  in  his  Messiahship  {i.e.,  that  the  traditional  Messiah  ben 
Joseph  meant  the  son  of  a  man  by  the  name  of  Joseph,  but  not  of  the  tribe  of  Joseph, 
as  Christ  was,  and  that  his  fate  was  to  be  killed  before  the  appearance  of  Messiah  b. 
David),  explain  this  passage  to  have  reference  to  Christ. 

fSee  Tract  Yomah,  p.  100. 


8o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

should  be  marvellous  in  the  eyes  of  the  remnant  of  this  people  in 
those  days,  should  it  also  be  marvellous  in  my  eyes."* 

R.  Assi  said  :  In  the  beginning  the  evil  angel  appears  as  in- 
significant and  thin  as  a  cobweb,  f  and  finally  he  becomes  as  thick 
as  a  wagon-rope,  as  it  is  written  [Is.  v.  i8]  :  ''  Wo  unto  those  that 
draw  iniquity  with  the  cords  of  falsehood,  and  as  with  a  wagon- 
rope,  sinfulness. 

The  rabbis  taught  :  The  Messiah  b.  David,  who  (as  we  hope) 
will  appear  in  the  near  future,  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will 
say  to  him  :  Ask  something  of  me  and  I  will  give  it  to  thee,  as  it 
is  written  [Ps.  ii.  7-8]  :  "  I  will  announce  the  decree  .  .  .  Ask 
it  of  me,  and  I  will  give,"  etc.  But  as  the  Messiah  b.  David  will 
have  seen  that  the  Messiah  b.  Joseph  who  preceded  him  was 
killed,  he  will  say  before  the  Lord  :  Lord  of  the  Universe,  I  will 
ask  nothing  of  Thee  but  life.  And  the  Lord  will  answer :  This 
was  prophesied  already  for  thee  by  thy  father  David  [Ps.  xxi.  5]  : 
*'  Life  hath  he  asked  of  thee,  thou  gavest  it  to  him." 

R.  Awira,  according  to  others  R.  Joshuah  b.  Levi,  lectured  : 
There  are  seven  names  for  the  evil  angel  (tempting  man).  The 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  names  him  "  evil,"  as  it  is  written 
[Gen.  viii.  21]  :  "  The  imagination  of  man's  heart  is  evil  from  his 
youth "  ;  Moses  calls  him  "  obduracy,"  as  it  is  written  [Deut. 
X.  16] :  ''  Remove  the  obduracy  of  your  heart  "  ;  David  calls  him 
"unclean,"  as  it  is  written  [Ps.  li.  12]  :  ''  Create  unto  me  a  clean 
heart  "  ;  and  when  he  says  **  a  clean  heart,"  it  must  be  an  unclean 
one.  Solomon  calls  him  "  enemy,"  as  it  is  written  [Prov.  xxv. 
21]  :  "  If  thy  enemy  be  hungry,  give  him  bread  to  eat,  and  if  he 
be  thirsty,  give  him  water  to  drink ;  for  though  thou  gatherest 
coals  of  fire  upon  his  head,  yet  will  the  Lord  repay  it  unto  thee." 
Do  not  read  Q")^^  (repay  it),  but  Q^^^  (he  will  make  him  peace- 
ful toward  thee).  Isaiah  calls  him  "stumbling-block,"  as  it  is 
written  [Is.  Ivii.  14]  :  "  And  he  will  say,  Cast  ye  up,  cast  ye  up, 
clear  out  of  the  way,  lift  up  every  stumbling-block  out  of  the  way 
of  my  people."  Ezekiel  names  him  "  stone,"  as  it  is  written 
[Ezek.  xxxvi.  26]  :  "  I  will  remove  the  heart  of  stone  out  of  your 
body."  Joel  calls  him  "  host  of  the  north,"  as  it  is  written  [Joel, 
ii.  20]  :  "  And  the  host  of  the  north  will  I  remove."  (The  ex- 
pression in  Hebrew  is  Tzephoni,  which  also  signifies  the  "  hidden 

*  Leeser  in  his  translation  has  it  in  the  form  of  an  interrogation,  but  the  Tal- 
mud takes  it  in  simple  form. 

f  According  to  Rashi ;  according  to  Scheinhack,  however,  it  means  the  thread  of 
the  XP^XV !  ^^^  so  it  seems  also  from  the  Aruch. 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  Si 

one,"  and  they  interpret  it  as  the  evil  spirit  which  is  hidden  in 
the  heart  of  man.) 

The  rabbis  taught :  And  I  will  drive  it  into  a  land  barren  and 
desolate :  the  evil  angel  hidden  in  a  man's  heart  I  will  drive  into 
the  desert,  i.e.,  where  men  do  not  live,  that  he  might  tempt 
them ;  "  with  its  advance  towards  the  eastern  sea,"  i.e.,  he  set  his 
eyes  on  the  First  Temple,  and  destroyed  it,  and  killed  the  scholars 
that  were  there ;  *'  and  its  rearward  toward  the  western  sea," 
i.e.,  he  set  his  eyes  on  the  Second  Temple,  and  destroyed  it,  and 
killed  the  scholars  that  were  there ;  "■  and  its  stench  shall  ascend, 
and  its  ill  savour  shall  come  up,  because  he  hath  done  great 
things,"  i.e.,  he  leaves  out  the  other  nation,  and  comes  to  tempt 
only  the  Israelites. 

*'  He  hath  done  great  things''  Said  Abayi :  Scholars  he 
tempts  more  than  any  one  else.  As  it  once  happened,  Abayi 
heard  a  man  say  to  a  woman  :  "  Let  us  rise  early,  and  we  will 
go  on  the  road  "  ;  and  Abayi  thought :  "  I  will  follow  them, 
and  prevent  them  from  a  sin."  He  went  after  them  about 
three  miles  through  reeds,  and  he  heard  them  saying :  "  Our 
conversation  has  been  very  agreeable,  and  now  we  must  take 
separate  roads."  Said  Abayi :  "  My  enemy  (meaning  himself) 
would  not  have  contained  himself  thus."  He  leaned  against  the 
bolt  of  the  door,  and  was  very  sorry  that  he  would  have  been 
worse  than  a  common  man.  And  an  old  man  came  to  him  and 
taught  him  :  "  The  greater  a  man  is,  the  more  is  he  tempted  by 
the  evil  angel."  R.  Itz'hak  said  :  The  evil  passions  of  man  try 
to  get  the  better  of  him  all  the  day  long,  as  it  is  written  [Gen. 
vi.  5]  :  ''  Was  only  evil  all  day  long."  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish  said  : 
They  try  to  get  the  better  of  him,  and  to  slay  him,  as  it  is 
written  [Ps.  xxxvii.  32] :  *'  The  wicked  looketh  out  for  the 
righteous,  and  seeketh  to  slay  him  "  ;  and  Avere  not  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  to  aid  him,  man  could  not  resist,  as  it  is 
written  further :  *'  The  Lord  will  not  leave  him  in  his  hand,  and 
will  not  condemn  him  when  he  is  judged." 

The  disciples  of  R.  Ishmael  taught :  If  this  hideousness  has 
attacked  thee,  take  it  to  the  house  of  learning ;  if  it  is  a  stone  it 
will  be  ground  to  powder,  and  if  it  is  iron  it  will  be  split  to  pieces. 
"  If  a  stone,  it  will  be  ground,"  as  it  is  written  [Is.  Iv.  i]  :  **  Ho, 
every  one  of  ye  that  thirsteth,  come  ye  to  the  water"  {i.e.,  the 
Law);  and  it  is  written  [Job,  xiv.  19]  :  *'  The  water  weareth  out 
stones."  ''  And  of  iron,  it  will  be  split  into  pieces,"  as  it  is  writ- 
ten [Jeremiah,  xxiii.  29]  :  *'  Is  not  thus  my  word  like  the  fire? 
6 


82  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

saith  the  Lord,  and  like  a  hammer  that  shivereth  the  rock  ?  " 
Said  R.  Samuel  bar  Na'hmani  in  the  name  of  Jehonathan :  The 
evil  angel  tempts  man  in  this  world,  and  bears  testimony  in  the 
world  to  come,  as  it  is  written  [Prov.  xxix.  21]  :  "  If  one  rear  his 
slave  delicately  from  his  youth,  then  will  he  at  length  become 
Manon  "  ;  and  in  the  Alpha  Bet  ha  of  R.  Hiya,  which  was  called 
Atbach,  a  witness  was  called  Manon!^ 

Rabh  Huna  pointed  out  a  contradiction :  It  is  written  [Ro- 
sea, iv.  12]  :  "  For  the  spirit  of  lewdness  has  caused  them  to  err,'' 
and  [ibid.  v.  4]  :  "  The  spirit  of  lewdness  is  in  their  bosoms  At 
first  it  causes  to  err,  and  afterwards  it  remains  in  the  bosom. 
Rabha  said :  In  the  beginning  he  is  called  ''  traveller,"  and  then 
"guest,"  and  then  '*  man,"  as  it  is  written  [II  Sam.  xii.  4]: 
"  And  there  came  a  traveller  unto  the  rich  man ;  and  he  felt 
compunction  to  take  from  his  own  flocks  and  from  his  own 
herds  to  dress  for  the  guest  that  was  come  to  him ;  but  he  took 
the  ewe  of  the  poor  man,  and  dressed  it  for  the  man  that  was 
come  to  him  "  (Rabha  assumes  the  whole  verse  to  refer  to  the 
evil  angel). 

R.  Johanan  said :  If  it  were  not  for  the  following  three  pas- 
sages, the  enemies  of  Israel  (meaning  Israel)  could  not  withstand : 
First  [Micah,  iv.  6]  :  "  And  her  to  whom  /have  done  evil "  ;  and 
the  second  [Jeremiah,  xviii.  6]  :  ''  As  the  clay  is  in  the  potter's 
hand,  so  are  ye  in  my  hand,  O  house  of  Israel " ;  and  the  third  is 
[Ezek.  xxxvi.  26]  :  "/will  remove  the  heart  of  stone  out  of  your 
body,  and  I  will  give  you  a  heart  of  flesh."  R.  Papa  says :  Also 
from  the  following  verse  [ibid.,  ibid.  27]  :  "  And  my  spirit  I  will 
put  within  you." 

It  is  written  [Zech.  ii.  3]  :  "  And  the  Lord  showed  me  four 
carpenters."  Who  are  the  four  carpenters?  Said  R.  Hanah  bar 
Bizna  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  the  Pious :  Messiah  b.  David, 
and  Messiah  b.  Joseph,  Elijah,  and  Cohen  Zedek. 

It  is  written  [Micah,  v.  4]  :  "  And  in  this  (manner)  shall  there 
be  peace  :  If  Asshur  should  come  into  our  land  ;  and  if  he  should 
tread  in  our  palaces,  then  will  we  raise  up  against  him  seven 
shepherds,  and  eight  anointed  men.  Who  are  the  seven  shepherds  ? 
David  in  the  centre ;  Adam,  Sheth,  Methushelach,  at  his  right ; 
Abraham,  Jacob,  and  Moses  at  his  left.     And  who  are  the  eight 


*  In  Leaser's  version  of  the  Bible  he  translates  Manon  "son,"  for  which  we  do 
not  know  the  authority  ;  but  the  Mashbir  translates  Manon  uevoivaGO,  i.e.^  '*  vio- 
lent," and  quotes  a  Midrash  where  the  evil  angel  is  meant. 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  83 

anointed  men  ?  Jesse,  Saul,  Samuel,  Amos,  Zephaniah,  Zedekiah, 
Messiah,  and  Elijah.* 

''  And  fotir  ladders,''  etc.  It  was  taught  in  a  Boraitha,  that 
the  height  of  every  candelabrum  was  fifty  ells. 

^'  And  four  lads,''  etc.  The  schoolmen  propounded  a  ques- 
tion :  Is  it  meant  that  each  of  them  held  a  pitcher  that  contained 
120  lugs,  or  the  120  lugs  was  the  joint  capacity  of  all  the  four? 
Come  and  hear :  And  in  their  hands  were  pitchers  of  oil  containing 
each  30  lugs,  which  altogether  amounted  to  120.  And  a  Borai- 
tha states  that  they  were  praised  more  than  the  son  of  Martha 
the  daughter  of  Baithus.  It  was  said  of  the  latter  that  he  used 
to  take  two  legs  from  the  large  ox  which  was  bought  for  a  thou- 
sand Zuz,  in  his  hands,  and  went  with  them  slowly,  step  by  step. 
And  his  fellow-priests  did  not  let  him  do  so,  because  it  is  written 
[Prov.  xiv.  28]  :  "  In  the  multitude  of  the  people  is  the  king's 
glory "  {i.e.,  if  more  men  carried,  God's  glory  were  greater). 
What  is  meant  by,  *'  They  were  praised  more  than  the  son  of," 
etc.  ?  Shall  we  assume  the  30  lugs  were  heavy — the  legs  were 
heavier  ?  Yea,  but  there  was  only  one  step,  and  it  was  square ; 
but  here  was  a  ladder,  and  standing  upright  (and  it  was  more  dif- 
ficult for  children  to  carry  the  burden). 

"  There  was  not  a  court  in  Jerusalem  that  was  not  illuminated." 
A  Boraitha  taught :  A  woman  could  pick  wheat  by  this  light. 

''Pious  and  distinguished  men"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught: 
Among  were  such  as  said  thus :  "  Well  be  to  our  youth  which 
does  not  disgrace  our  age."  They  were  pious  and  distinguished 
men,  and  there  were  among  them  people  who  said  :  '*  Well  be  to 
our  age  that  has  atoned  for  our  youth."  And  these  are  the  peni- 
tents. Both  used  to  say  :  "■  Well  be  to  those  who  have  not  sinned 
at  all ;  but  who  has  sinned  shall  repent,  and  he  will  be  forgiven." 
We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  It  was  said  of  Hillel  the  Elder 
(the  Prince) :  When  he  rejoiced  at  the  drawing  of  the  water,  he 
used  to  say  thus :  If  I  am  here,  all  are  here ;  but  if  I  am  not  here, 
who  is  here  ?  He  used  also  to  say :  To  the  places  which  I  am 
fond  of,  my  feet  bring  me  ;  if  thou  wilt  visit  my  house,  I  will  visit 
thy  house ;  but  if  thou  wilt  not  visit  my  house,  I  shall  never  visit 
thine.     As  it  is  written   [Ex.  xx.  21]  :  "In  every  place  where  I 

*  It  is  strange  to  Rashi  why  Isaac  is  not  mentioned  here  among  the  patriarchs. 
He  says  it  seems  to  him  that  it  is  stated  elsewhere  that  it  is  because  Isaac  went 
to  redeem  his  children  from  Gehenna.  It  is  so.  This  can  be  found  in  Midrash 
II  Chronicles  and  in  Jalkut  Shimoni  Micah,  v.  The  strangeness  of  this  saying, 
however,  remains. 


84  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

shall  permit  my  name  to  be  mentioned,  I  will  come  unto  thee, 
and  I  will  bless  thee.'"^  R.  Johanan  said  :  The  feet  of  the  man 
are  securities  for  him  :  where  he  is  needed,  they  bring  him  thither. 
Two  Ethiopians  were  in  the  service  of  King  Solomon,  named 
Elihoreph  and  Achiyah  the  son  of  Shisha,  and  were  his  scribes. 
One  day  Solomon  saw  the  Angel  of  Death  was  sad,  and  he  asked 
him  for  the  reason,  and  he  said  :  Because  the  two  men  are  re- 
quired from  me.  And  Solomon  took  the  two  men  and  gave  them 
away  to  devils,  who  should  carry  them  away  to  the  city  of  Luz, 
which  the  Angel  of  Death  cannot  enter.  On  the  morrow  he  saw 
the  Angel  of  Death  was  very  cheerful,  and  when  he  asked  him 
the  reason,  he  told  him  :  To  the  place  where  I  was  commanded  to 
take  the  lives  of  these  two  men,  thou  hast  sent  them,  for  they 
died  at  the  gate  of  Luz.  Then  said  Solomon  :  The  feet  of  a  man 
are  his  securities ;  where  he  is  needed,  to  that  place  they  bring 
him. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  It  was  said  that  Rabban 
Simeon  b.  GamaHel,  when  he  rejoiced  at  the  drawing  of  water, 
would  take  eight  flambeaux  in  his  hands,  and  throw  them  into  the 
air,  and  catch,  and  one  would  not  touch  another.  When  he  used 
to  prostrate  himself,  he  fixed  his  thumbs  on  the  ground,  and 
bowed,  and  kissed  the  floor,  and  then  raised  himself,  and  no 
creature  can  do  so.  And  this  is  what  is  called  Qidah.  Levi  tried 
to  make  such  a  Qidah  in  the  presence  of  Rabhi,  and  became  lame 
on  one  leg.  Levi  also  tried  in  the  presence  of  Rabhi  to  throw 
and  catch  eight  knives.  Samuel  tried  to  do  so  in  the  presence  of 
Sha'bur  the  king  with  eight  goblets  full  of  wine ;  and  Abayi  in 
the  presence  of  Rabha  with  eight  eggs,  according  to  others  with 
four  eggs.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Joshua  b.  R. 
Hananiah  said :  When  we  were  engaged  in  rejoicing  at  the  draw- 
ing of  water,  our  eyes  saw  no  sleep.  How  so  ?  The  first  hour 
for  the  morning  daily  sacrifice ;  afterwards  for  praying,  and  from 
that  to  the  additional  sacrifice ;  after  that  the  additional  prayer ; 
afterwards  we  went  to  the  house  of  learning ;  from  there  we  went  to 
eat  and  drink  at  home,  and  afterwards  the  Min'ha  prayer;  and 
from  the  Min'ha  prayer  to  the  daily  evening  sacrifices,  and  from 
that  time  we  rejoiced  at  the  drawing  of  the  water  till  the  morn- 

*  Rashi  explains  this  that  Hillel  said  so  in  the  name  of  the  Shekhina — that  the 
Shekhina  says  :  "  As  long  as  I  am  in  the  Temple,  all  are  here  ;  but  if  I  am  not  here, 
who  shall  be  here?"  In  the  Palestinian  Talmud,  however,  it  is  explained  that  he  says 
it  of  himself  ;  Tosphoth,  however,  said  that  the  second  part  based  on  the  verse 
shows  that  Rashi's  explanation  is  correct. 


TRACT   SUCCAH.  '  85 

ing.  But  this  is  not  so?  Did  not  R.  Johanan  say  :  If  one  says : 
I  swear  I  will  not  sleep  three  days,  he  shall  get  stripes  for  a  false 
oath,  and  shall  go  to  sleep  immediately  ?  He  meant  to  say :  We 
have  not  tasted  any  sleep,  for  we  slept  each  on  the  other's 
shoulders. 

''  Fifteen  songs  of  degrees,"  etc.  Said  R.  Hisda  to  one  of  the 
rabbis  who  read  the  Agada  (legends)  before  him  :  Have  you  heard 
of  the  fifteen  songs  of  the  degrees,  for  what  purpose  David  com- 
posed them?  He  answered:  So  said  R.  Johanan:  When  David 
was  mining  under  the  altar  to  get  water,  water  burst  out  ready 
to  overflow  the  world ;  there  he  composed  the  fifteen  songs  of 
degrees,  and  therewith  checked  it. 

''  We  belong  to  God  and  we  raise  our  eyes  to  God!'  This  is  not 
so  ?  Did  not  R.  Zera  say  :  One  who  said  twice, ''  Shema,  Shema," 
is  the  same  as  if  he  had  said,  ''  Modirn,  Modim^  "^  of  which  a 
Mishna  says,  that  he  must  be  silenced?  The  Mishna  meant 
thus :  Our  ancestors  bowed  toward  the  east  to  the  sun,  but  only 
to  God  we  bow,  and  our  eyes  we  raise  in  hope  to  God. 

MISHNA:  In  the  Temple  they  never  blew  the  trumpet  less 
than  twenty-one  times  a  day,  nor  oftener  than  forty-eight  times. 
They  daily  blew  the  trumpet  twenty-one  times  :  thrice  at  opening 
the  gates,  nine  times  at  the  daily  morning  offering,  and  nine 
times  at  the  daily  evening  offering.  When  additional  offerings 
were  brought,  they  blew  nine  times  more.  On  the  eve  of  the 
Sabbath,  they  blew  six  times  more :  thrice  to  interdict  the  peo- 
ple from  doing  work,  and  thrice  to  separate  the  holy  day  from 
the  work  day.  But  on  the  eve  of  the  Sabbath,  during  the  festi- 
val (of  Tabernacles)  they  blew  forty-eight  times :  thrice  at  the 
opening  of  the  gates,  thrice  at  the  upper  gate,  thrice  at  the  lower 
gate,  thrice  at  the  drawing  of  water,  thrice  over  the  altar,  nine 
times  at  the  daily  morning  offering,  nine  times  at  the  daily  even- 
ing offering,  nine  times  at  the  additional  offerings,  thrice  to  inter- 
dict the  people  from  doing  work,  and  thrice  to  separate  the  holy 
day  from  the  work  day. 

GEMARA :  Our  Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehu- 
dah  of  the  following  Boraitha :  According  to  those  who  say  they 
were  few,  they  were  not  less  than  seven ;  and  according  to  those 
who  say  that  they  were  many,  they  were  not  more  than  sixteen. 

What  is  the  point  on  which  they  differ?  R.  Jehudah  holds 
that   blowing  and  alarming  are  one  and  the  same  thing,  while 


♦  This  is  explained  in  Tract  Berachoth,  Chap.  V.,  Mishna  3. 


86  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  sages  hold  that  they  are  two  separate  things.  But  what  Is 
the  reason  of  R.  Jehudah  ?  Because  it  is  written  [Num.  x.  5] : 
"  And  when  ye  blow  an  alarm."  The  rabbis,  however,  maintain 
that  the  passage  means  to  say,  that  before  and  after  the  alarm- 
ing a  common  blowing  must  be  used.  What  is  the  reason  of  the 
rabbis'  decree?  Because  it  is  written  [ibid,  7]:  "But  at  the  as- 
sembling of  the  assembly,  ye  shall  blow,  but  he  shall  not  sound 
an  alarm  "  ;  hence  blowing  and  alarming  are  two  separate  things, 
for  if  they  were  not,  how  could  the  Merciful  One  command  to 
do  only  half  of  the  merit. 

According  to  whom  would  be  the  saying  of  R,  Kahana  that 
there  is  no  difference  between  a  Tekiah  (a  blowing)  and  a  Teruah 
(an  alarming)  whatever?  This  is  certainly  in  accordance  with  R. 
Jehudah, 

"  But  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  during  the  festival!'  The  Mishna 
does  not  count  the  times  that  they  blew  when  they  ascended  the 
tenth  step,  and  therefore  we  must  assume  the  Mishna  is  in  ac- 
cordance with  R.  Eliezer  b.  Jacob  from  the  following  Boraitha : 
Three  times  they  blew,  when  they  ascended  the  tenth  step.  R. 
Eliezer  b.  Jacob,  however,  said :  These  three  times  they  blew 
over  the  altar.  From  this  we  see  that  those  who  said  it  was  blown 
over  the  altar,  do  not  hold  it  was  blown  on  the  tenth  step ; 
and  he  who  says  it  was  blown  on  the  tenth  step,  does  not  mean 
to  say  it  was  blown  over  the  altar.  What  is  the  reason  of 
Eliezer  b.  Jacob?  He  meant,  when  it  was  blown  at  the  opening 
of  the  gates,  it  was  not  necessary  to  blow  again  on  the  tenth 
step.  And  what  is  the  reason  of  the  rabbis  ?  They  hold  that 
when  it  was  blown  at  the  drawing  of  the  water,  it  was  unnecessary 
to  blow  over  the  altar.  And  therefore  they  gave  preference  to 
the  ascending  of  the  tenth  step.  When  R.  A'ha  bar  Hanina 
came  from  the  South,  he  brought  a  Boraitha  with  him,  thus : 
It  is  written  [Num,  x.  8]  :  "  And  the  sons  of  Aaron  the  priest 
shall  blow  with  the  trumpets."  This  verse  is  superfluous,  because 
there  it  is  already  written  [ibid.  10]  :  ''  Shall  ye  blow  with  the 
trumpets  over  your  burnt-offerings,  and  over  the  sacrifices  of  your 
peace-offerings."  And  why  is  the  first-cited  verse  needed  ?  To 
signify  that  they  have  to  blow  when  there  are  additional  sacri- 
fices. He  taught  the  Boraitha,  and  he  explained  it  that  it  meant 
to  say,  that  it  was  a  duty  to  blow  at  every  additional  sacrifice. 

An  objection  was  raised  based  upon  our  Mishna :  But  on 
the  eve  of  Sabbath  during  the  festival  they  blew  forty-eight 
times.     Now,  if  it  was  so  (to  blow  at  each   additional  sacrifice) 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  87 

let  the  Mishna  state  that  if  the  Sabbath  falls  during  the  festival 
there  were  fifty-one  (because  there  was  one  additional  sacrifice)  ? 
Said  R.  Zera :  Because  they  did  not  blow  at  the  opening  of  the 
gates  on  Sabbath.  Said  Rabha  :  Who  is  that  who  is  not  careful 
in  his  statements?  The  saying  of  R.  Zera  cannot  hold  good  at 
all  events.  First,  the  Mishna  states  that  there  was  blowing  every 
day,  which  certainly  includes  Sabbath,  and,  secondly,  even  if 
the  Sabbath,  falling  during  the  festival,  were  equal  to  the  eve  of 
Sabbath  (in  regard  to  blowing),  the  Mishna  would  not  mention 
the  eve  of  Sabbath,  instead  of  the  Sabbath  itself,  of  which  we 
could  learn  two  things  :  that  of  R.  Eliezer  b.  Jacob,  that  the 
blowing  was  not  on  the  tenth  step,  but  over  the  altar,  and,  secondly, 
what  R.  A'ha  b.  Hanina  stated  above,  that  they  blew  at  each 
additional  sacrifice. 

Therefore  said  Rabha  that  the  reason  (for  not  mentioning 
Sabbath  in  our  Mishna)  is  because  they  did  not  draw  water  on 
Sabbath,  but  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  as  stated  supra;  and 
then  there  were  many  blowings  less  (namely,  the  blowing  when 
they  reached  the  upper  and  the  lower  gate,  the  water-gate,  and 
over  the  altar). 

But  let  the  Mishna  state,  when  New  Year  falls  on  a  Sabbath, 
when  there  are  three  additional  sacrifices,  namely,  the  New  Year, 
the  new  moon,  and  the  Sabbath  sacrifice.  The  Mishna,  in  real- 
ity, left  this  out,  as  well  as  it  left  out  the  case  when  the  eve  of 
Passover  falls  on  a  Sabbath,  when  there  were  many  additional 
blowings  at  the  slaughtering  of  the  Paschal  lamb. 

''Nor  oftener  than  forty-eight  times^  Is  that  so?  Did  they 
not  blow,  when  the  eve  of  Passover  fell  on  Sabbath,  according  to 
R.  Jehudah  fifty-one,  and  according  to  the  rabbis  fifty-seven, 
times  ?  When  the  Passover  offering  was  brought,  it  is  explained 
in  Tract  Pesachim  (Chap.  V.,  Mishna  5,  p.  119)  that  it  was  blown 
many  times  during  the  time  when  the  three  divisions  brought  their 
offerings.  This,  which  was  done  every  year,  is  counted  in  the 
Mishna ;  but  the  eve  of  a  Passover  that  fell  on  Sabbath,  which 
is  not  every  year,  but  only  seldom,  is  not  reckoned.  But  does 
the  eve  of  Sabbath  fall  every  year  on  the  festival ;  it  may  happen 
that  the  first  day  of  the  festival  falls  on  Friday,  and  then  there 
is  no  eve  of  Sabbath  during  the  whole  festival?  If  this  hap- 
pens, then  we  prolong  the  festival  for  another  day,  because  if  the 
first  day  of  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  would  be  on  Friday,  the 
Day  of  Atonement  would  fall  on  Sunday,  and  no  Day  of  Atone- 
ment must  fall  on  Friday  or  on  Sunday.  An  objection  was  raised  ; 


88  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

We  have  learned  that  if  the  first  day  of  the  month  falls  on  Sab- 
bath, the  song  of  the  first  of  the  month  supersedes  the  song  of 
the  Sabbath.  Now,  if  it  would  be  as  R.  A'ha  interpreted  the 
Boraitha  before,  that  they  blew  at  every  additional  sacrifice,  why 
does  it  supersede  ?  Let  the  song  of  the  first  of  the  month  be 
sung,  and  that  of  Sabbath  also  ?  Said  R.  Saphra  :  The  Boraitha 
which  says  **  supersedes  the  Sabbath  "  means,  it  is  said  before 
the  song  of  the  Sabbath.  Why  so  ?  Is  there  not  a  rule  as  to 
that  which  is  frequent  and  that  which  is  rare,  that  the  frequent 
has  the  preference?  Said  R.  Johanan  :  This  was  an  exception  to 
the  rule,  that  the  people  should  know  that  this  month  is  con- 
secrated by  Beth  Din  in  its  time. 

Another  objection  was  raised  :  Rabha  bar  Samuel  taught :  One 
may  say,  as  we  must  blow  every  Sabbath  separately,  and  every 
first  month  separately,  so  shall  we  blow  at  every  additional  sacri- 
fice? Therefore  it  is  written  [Num.  x.  lo] :  "On  the  beginnings 
of  your  months"  (on  the  beginnings  of  the  months  only,  but  not 
at  additional  sacrifices).  This  objection  to  R.  A'ha's  teaching 
remains.  How  is  it  inferred  from  this  passage  ?  Said  Abayi : 
Because  it  is  written,  *'  on  the  beginnings  of  the  months,"  in  the 
plural,  all  the  months  shall  be  equal  (and  if  a  first  day  of  the 
month  falls  on  Sabbath,  and  it  would  be  blown  for  every  addi- 
tional sacrifice,  the  months  would  not  be  equal).  R.  Ashi  says : 
We  may  infer  it  from  the  following :  It  is  written  "  your  months," 
and  the  **  beginnings,"  in  the  plural.  Which  month  can  happen 
to  have  two  beginnings?  That  is  New  Year,  which  is  the  be- 
ginning of  the  year  and  of  the  month,  and  it  is  nevertheless 
written,  ''  your  months."  From  this  we  infer,  all  the  first  days  of 
the  months  must  be  equal.  We  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha  : 
On  the  intermediate  days  the  songs  were  as  follov/s :  On  the  first 
day  they  used  to  say  from  Psalm  xxix. :  "  Ascribe  unto  the  Lord, 
O  ye  sons  of  the  mighty";  on  the  second,  from  Ps.  1.  i6;  on 
the  third,  Ps.  xciv.  i6;  on  the  fourth,  ibid.  8;  on  the  fifth  day, 
Ps.  Ixxxi.  7.  On  the  sixth  day  they  used  to  say  Ixxxii.  5  :  "  All 
the  foundations  of  the  earth  are  moved  ";  and  if  Sabbath  fall  on 
one  of  these  days,  *'  All  the  foundations  of  the  earth  are  moved  " 
should  be  superseded.  (Now,  from  what  is  said,  that  when  Sab- 
bath falls  it  is  superseded,  we  see  that  it  was  not  blown  for  addi- 
tional offerings.)  The  objection  of  R.  A'ha  remains.  But  did 
not  R.  A'ha  bar  Hanina  cite  both  a  verse  and  a  Boraitha?  Said 
Rabbina :  The  Boraitha  which  says  it  was  blown  at  additional 
offerings,  meant    to    say  it  was  blown  a  little  longer,  but  not  a 


TRACT    SUCCAH.  89 

greater  number  of  times.     The  rabbis  of  Caesarea  in  the  name 
of  R.  A'ha  said :  It  was  added  to  the  number  of  trumpets. 

And  we  in  exile,  who  keep  two  days  of  festival,  how  shall  we 
say  in  the  additional  prayer  the  passages  [Num.  xxix.  17-32] 
about  the  sacrifices  ?  Amemar  ordained  in  Nehardai :  The  sec- 
ond day  we  should  leave  out  verse  17,  but  on  the  third  day  we 
should  say  (17-20)  ''  both  on  the  second  and  third  "  ;  on  the  fourth 
day  (20-23)  ''  the  third  and  the  fourth,"  etc.,  because  in  exile  it 
was  doubtful  when  the  first  of  the  month  was  consecrated. 

MISHNA:  On  the  first  holy  day  of  the  festival  there  were 
thirteen  bullocks,  two  rams,  and  one  goat  to  be  offered.  There 
then  remained  fourteen  lambs  for  eight  orders  of  priests.  On 
the  first  day  of  the  festival  six  of  these  orders  offered  two  lambs 
each,  and  the  other  two  orders  one  lamb  each.  On  the  second 
day  five  of  the  orders  offered  two  lambs  each,  and  the  remaining 
four  orders  one  lamb  each.  On  the  third  day  four  orders  offered 
two  lambs  each,  and  the  remaining  six  orders  one  lamb  each. 
On  the  fourth  day  three  orders  offered  two  lambs  each,  and  the 
remaining  eight  orders  one  lamb  each.  On  the  fifth  day  two 
orders  offered  two  lambs  each,  and  the  remaining  ten  orders  one 
Iamb  each.  On  the  sixth  day  one  order  offered  two  lambs,  and 
the  remaining  twelve  orders  one  lamb  each.  On  the  seventh  day 
they  were  all  equal.  On  the  eighth  day  they  cast  lots,  as  on 
other  festivals.  It  was  so  regulated  that  the  order  which  offered 
bullocks  one  day  were  not  permitted  to  offer  bullocks  the  next 
day,  but  it  went  in  rotation. 

GEMARA :  These  seventy  bullocks,  for  what  purpose  were 
they  offered?  Said  R.  Elazar:  For  the  sake  of  the  seventy 
nations  which  existed  then.  And  to  what  purpose  was  offered 
the  one  bullock  [Num.  xxix.  36]  ?  For  the  sake  of  the  single 
nation  (Israel).  It  can  be  compared  to  a  human  king  who  says 
to  his  slaves :  Make  for  me  a  great  meal  for  several  days.  On 
the  last  day  he  says  to  his  friend  :  You  make  for  me  a  little  meal, 
that  I  should  have  a  benefit  from  yourself  only.  Said  R.  Jo- 
hanan  :  Woe  be  to  the  nations,  they  have  lost,  and  they  do  not 
know  even  what  they  have  lost !  When  the  Temple  was  in  ex- 
istence, the  altar  atoned  for  their  sins,  but  now  who  shall  atone 
for  their  sins  ? 

MISHNA  :  Three  times  in  the  year  all  the  twenty-four  orders 
of  priests  were  alike  entitled  to  share  the  pieces  of  offerings  of 
the  festival,  and  in  the  shewbread  ;  and  on  the  Feast  of  Pente- 
cost the  distributors  say  to  each  priest :  *'  Here  is  leavened  bread 


90  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

for  thee,  and  here  is  unleavened  bread  for  thee."  The  order  of 
priests  whose  regular  time  of  service  occurs  in  the  festivals  offer 
the  continual  daily  offerings,  vows,  and  voluntary  offerings,  and 
all  congregational  offerings,  and  every  sacrifice. 

GEMARA  :  The  pieces  of  the  offerings  ?  They  were  brought 
to  the  altar?  Said  R.  Hisda:  Do  not  read  ^' pieces^  of  the  offer- 
ing," but  "  the  offerings  that  were  said  to  be  sacrificed  on  the 
festivals."  The  rabbis  taught :  Whence  do  we  deduce  that  all 
the  orders  of  the  priests  had  equal  shares  of  the  offerings  of  the 
festival  ?  Because  it  is  written  [Deut.  xviii.  6]  :  "  And  come  with 
all  the  longing  of  his  soul  ...  he  shall  minister."  Lest  one 
say,  on  any  day  of  the  year  it  should  be  also  so,  therefore  it  is 
written,  ''  from  any  one  of  thy  gates,"  to  signify,  this  is  only 
when  all  Israel  comes  through  one  gate. 

''And  in  the  shewbreadr  The  rabbis  taught :  Whence  do  we 
deduce  that  all  the  orders  of  the  priests  have  equal  shares  of  the 
shewbread  ?  From  what  is  written  [Deut.  xviii.  8]  :  ''  They  shall 
have  like  portions  to  eat."  That  means,  according  to  his  share 
in  the  service  shall  be  his  share  in  eating.  But  what  is  meant  by 
eating  ?  Shall  we  assume,  that  means  to  eat  his  share  of  the  sac- 
rifice ?  This  is  already  deduced  from  Leviticus,  vii.  9 :  "  Shall 
belong  to  the  priest  th-ut  offereth  it  alone."  Hence  it  means  only 
the  eating  of  the  shewbread.  But  lest  one  say,  they  shall  have  a 
share  also  in  the  duty-offerings  which  are  not  dependent  on  the 
festival,  therefore  it  is  written  [Deut.  xviii.  8]  :  ''  Beside  that 
which  Cometh  of  the  sale  of  his  patrimony."  What  is  meant  by 
selHng  the  patrimony  ?  That  they  have  divided  the  weeks :  I 
and  my  children  shall  take  this  week,  and  you  shall  have  the 
other  week. 

''  And  on  Pentecost,''  etc.  It  was  taught:  (If  one  has  to  pro- 
nounce two  benedictions,  of  the  Succah  and  the  time,)  Rabh  said, 
he  shall  pronounce  first  the  benediction  of  the  Succah,  and  after 
this  that  of  the  time ;  and  Rabha  bar  bar  Hana  said,  that  of  the 
time  first.  The  reason  of  Rabh  is  because  the  duty  of  the  day 
must  be  given  preference  ;  and  Rabha  bar  bar  Hana's,  the  frequent 
thing  has  the  preference  over  the  rarer  thing  (and  the  benediction 
of  the  time  is  said  many  times  in  the  year,  and  that  of  the  Suc- 
cah only  once  a  year).     An  objection  was  raised  from  our  Mishna  : 


*  The  expression  in  the  Mishna  for  pieces  is  ^"IID^N,  and  in  Hebrew  signifies 
also  "saying"  ;  and  R.  Hisda  interprets  it  not  pieces,  but  the  saying  what  ought 
to  be  sacrificed. 


TRACT    SUCCAH. 


91 


On  Pentecost  it  is  said  :  "  Here  is  leavened  bread,  and  here  is 
unleavened  bread."  Now,  on  the  Pentecost,  the  duty  of  the  day 
is  with  leavened  bread,  and  nevertheless  it  mentions  unleavened 
bread  first,  and  this  would  be  an  objection  to  Rabh,  who  says 
that  the  duty  of  the  day  must  be  given  preference  ?  Rabh  might 
say  :  On  this  differ  the  Tanaim,  as  we  learn  in  the  following 
Boraitha  :  Here  is  unleavened  bread,  here  is  leavened  bread.  R. 
Saul,  however,  said  :  Here  is  leavened  bread,  here  is  unleavened 
bread.  R.  Na'hman  b.  R.  Hisda  lectured :  It  shall  be  done  not 
according  to  Rabh  to  pronounce  the  benediction  of  Succah  before 
that  of  time,  but  that  of  time  should  be  said  before  that  of  Suc- 
cah. R.  Shesheth  the  son  of  R.  Idi  says :  The  Succah  before  the 
time.     And  so  the  Halakha  prevails. 

"  T/ie  order  of  priests^  whose  regular  time,''  etc.  What  is 
meant  by  ''  all  congregational  sacrifices  "  ?  It  means  to  add  the 
bullock,  which  the  congregation  has  to  offer  for  ignorance  [Lev. 
iv.  13,  14],  and  the  goat  for  idolatry. 

*'  And  every  sacrifice.''  What  is  meant  by  every  sacrifice  ?  It 
means,  to  supply  the  deficit  on  the  altar.  (See  Tract  ShekaHm, 
Chap.  IV.,  Mishna  D.) 

MISHNA  :  If  a  festival  falls  before  or  after  a  Sabbath,  all  the 
twenty-four  orders  share  alike  in  the  shewbread.  But  if  a  day 
intervenes  between  the  Sabbath  and  the  festival,  the  order  whose 
regular  turn  it  was,  received  ten  of  the  shewbread,  and  the  loi- 
terers received  two  shewbread.  At  other  times  of  the  year  the 
order  which  entered  on  their  duty  received  six,  and  that  which 
went  off  duty  received  also  six.  R.  Jehudah  says :  That  order 
which  enters  on  duty  received  seven,  and  that  which  goes  off 
receives  five.  Those  who  entered  shared  them  on  the  north  side, 
and  those  who  went  out,  on  the  south  side  (of  the  Temple  court). 
The  order  Bilgah  always  divided  their  share  on  the  south  side ; 
their  slaughter  ring  was  fastened  down,  and  the  window  of  their 
chamber  blocked  up. 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by '' before  or  after  "  ?  Shall  we 
assume  that  *'  before  "  means  the  first  day  of  the  festival,  and 
after  a  Sabbath  ?  The  last  day  of  the  festival,  is  it  not  the  same 
as  a  Sabbath  during  the  festival  ?  Therefore  we  must  say  that 
*'  before  "  means,  the  last  day  was  before  a  Sabbath,  and  "  after  " 
means,  the  first  day  was  after  Sabbath.  Why,  then,  shall  the 
shares  be  equal  ?  The  Sabbath  does  not  belong  to  the  festival  at 
all  ?  Because  those  who  have  to  work  on  the  succeeding  week 
must  come  before  the  Sabbath,  and  those  whose  duty  was  out 


92  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

could  not  go  away  on  the  festival,  and  they  all  stayed  in  the 
Temple.  Therefore  the  sages  ordained  they  should  have  an 
equal  share. 

^^  If  a  day  intervene,''  etc.  And  according  to  R.  Jehudah, 
what  is  the  reason  that  those  who  enter  received  two  more  ?  Said 
R.  Itz'hak :  That  was  the  reward  for  opening  the  gates.  But 
why  did  they  not  say,  let  it  be  equal  for  ever,  for  in  the  other 
week  those  who  take  seven  this  week  will  have  five  the  next  ? 
Said  Abayi :  It  is  better  to  take  a  ripe  small  orange  than  to  wait 
for  an  unripe  large  melon. 

"  Those  who  entered  shared  them  on  the  north,''  etc.  The 
rabbis  taught :  Those  that  entered  took  their  shares  on  the  north 
side,  that  it  should  be  seen  they  were  entering ;  and  those  who 
took  them  on  the  south  side  did  it  that  everybody  should  see 
they  were  going  out. 

"  The  order  Bilgah,"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught :  It  happened 
to  Miriam  the  daughter  of  Bilgah  that  she  became  an  apostate, 
and  was  married  to  an  officer  of  the  Greek  kingdom.  When  the 
Greeks  entered  the  Temple,  she  took  her  sandal  and  knocked  on 
the  altar,  and  said :  Lucus,  Lucus,  how  long  will  you  destroy  the 
money  of  Israel,  if  you  cannot  help  them  in  their  trouble? 
When  the  sages  heard  this,  they  fastened  down  thei--  ring 
and  blocked  up  the  window.  But  according  to  others,  the 
order  of  Bilgah  was  always  late  to  come,  and  the  order  of 
Jeshebab  his  brother  substituted  them ;  and  although  always 
the  neighbors  of  the  wicked  are  not  benefited,  the  neighbors  of 
Bilgah  have  benefited,  because  they  took  their  share  always  in 
the  south,  and  those  of  Jeshebab  his  brother  always  in  the  north. 
It  is  right  according  to  those  who  say  that  the  whole  order  was 
late,  therefore  it  was  punished ;  but  according  to  those  who  say 
that  only  Miriam,  Bilgah's  daughter,  became  apostate,  can  it  be 
that  the  Bilgah  should  be  punished  for  his  daughter?  Said 
Abayi :  Yea,  because  people  say,  what  a  child  speaks  in  the  street, 
it  has  heard  either  from  its  father  or  from  its  mother.  But  must 
the  whole  order  be  punished  for  the  sin  of  her  father  and  mother  ? 
Said  Abayi :  Woe  be  to  the  wicked,  and  woe  be  to  his  neighbor ; 
well  be  to  the  righteous,  and  well  be  to  his  neighbor,  as  it  is 
written  [Is.  iii.  lo]  :  "  Say  ye  to  the  righteous,  that  he  hath  done 
well ;  for  the  fruit  of  their  doings  shall  they  eat." 

END   OF  TRACT   SUCCAH. 


TRACT  MOED  KATAN  (MINOR  FESTIVALS) 


CONTENTS, 


PAGE 

Synopsis    of    Subjects    of    Volume    VII. — Tract    Moed 

Katan, iii 


CHAPTER  I. 

Regulations  concerning  Labor  and  Marriage  in  the 
Intermediate  Days, i 

CHAPTER  II. 

Regulations  concerning  Labor.  Mourning  and  Buying 
AND  Doing  Business  in  that  Time,  and  also  in  the 
Intermediate  Days, 19 

CHAPTER  III. 

Regulations  regarding  Mourning  on  Festivals,  regard- 
ing Those  Who  are  under  the   Ban,  and  Washing,    .     25 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


OP 


VOLUME  VII.— TRACT  MOED  KATAN. 


CHAPTER   I. 


MiSHNAS  I.  to  III.  How  dry  and  low-land  may  be  irrigated  from  newly 
sprung  fountain  and  rain  water,  on  the  middle  days.  Is  grubbing  up  olive- 
trees  permitted  during  the  Sabbatical  year  ?  Is  one  court  permitted  to 
overrule  the  decision  of  another  ?  Where  is  it  deduced  from  the  Scriptures 
that  tombs  must  be  marked  ?  Messengers  on  account  of  Kilaim,  when 
and  for  what  reason  they  were  sent.  The  irrigating  of  plants  and  yard- 
gardens.  How  to  stop  a  gap  in  a  fence,  in  the  middle  days  and  the  Sabbati- 
cal  year,        ............         i-n 

MiSHNAS  IV.  to  IX.  How  the  priests  had  to  make  the  inspection  of 
plagues.  If  it  is  allowed  to  gather  the  bones  of  parents  in  the  minor  festivals. 
If  a  funeral  oration  may  be  held  thirty  days  before  the  festival.  About  digging 
and  preparing  graves  in  the  minor  festivals.  If  one  may  espouse  a  wife  in 
those  days.  The  explanation  of  I  Kings  viii.  66,  and  the  legend  of  Solomon 
and  the  gates.  The  allegorical  blessings  of  Jonathan  and  Jehudah  the  dis- 
ciples of  Ben  Jo'hi  to  his  son,  and  their  interpretation  by  his  father.  How 
Rabh  interpreted  the  advice  of  Ben  Halafta  to  his  own  son  as  a  blessing 
from  the  Scripture.  The  especial  labors  which  may  and  may  not  be  done  on 
the  middle  days,  and  also  the  difference  between  a  layman  and  a  specialist 
on  this  subject,  9-18 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  VI.  Which  labors  may  be  done  in  the  usual  manner  and 
which  must  be  changed  in  their  manner.  If  the  property  of  one  was  fined 
by  the  court  for  violating  the  minor  feasts,  and  he  dies,  is  it  in  force  for  his 
heirs  ?     And  how  it  shall  be  done  in  the  buying  and  selling  places,     .     19-24 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNA  I.  Who  may  trim  their  hair.  If  mourning  and  the  burden  of  ban 
must  be  observed  on  the  festival    and  middle  days.     Whence  do  we  deduce 

*  See  footnote  in  Tract  Succah. 


iv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

that  the  court  lias  power  to  summon,  to  appoint  a  time,  and  to  postpone 
trials  and  to  excommunicate?  For  what  cases  one  may  be  put  under  the 
ban,  and  what  is  the  fixed  time  for  rebuke,  ban,  and  excommunication. 
What  happened  to  a  young  scholar  whom  R.  Jehudah  put  under  the  ban. 
How  the  maid -servant  of  Rabbi  put  one  under  the  ban  for  beating  his  grown- 
up son,  and  what  the  rabbis  said  to  that.     What  Mar  Zutra  the  Pious  did 

when  a  young  scholar  was  delinquent, 25-34 

MiSHNAS  II.  to  VII.  What  documents  are  allowed  to  be  written.  About 
bonds  and  debts.  About  Phylacteries,  etc.  Do  the  days  of  the  festival  post- 
pone the  mourning  or  abolish  ?  The  difference  in  this  subject  between 
Sabbath  and  a  festival,  and  as  to  a  difference  also  between  the  festivals  them- 
selves, and  which  of  them  enter  into  computation.  If  the  garments  are  to  be 
rent  for  certain  relatives,  and  how  to  do  it  on  the  minor  feasts.  What 
happened  to  an  Ishmaelitish  merchant  when  the  coffins  of  Rabba  and  Ham- 
nuna  passed  by.  The  Elegy  of  a  disciple  on  them.  The  funeral  oration  on 
Rabina.  The  answer  of  Bar  Kipuk  to  the  question  of  R.  Ashi :  What  oration 
he  would  make  on  the  day  of  his  death  ;  the  oration  on  a  child  which  died  at 
birth  ;  the  oration  on  R.  Zera  when  he  has  departed  in  Palestine — all  in 
verse.  To  whom  it  must  be  said:  "Go  in  peace,"  and  to  whom,  "Go  with 
peace/' 35-45 


TRACT   MOED  KATAN  (MINOR 
FESTIVALS). 


CHAPTER  I. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  LABOR  AND  MARRIAGE  IN  THE  INTERMEDI- 
ATE DAYS. 

MISHNA:  Beth  Hasharhin  (Dry  Land)  may  be  irrigated 
during  the  middle  days,  and  also  during  the  Sabbatical  year,  as 
well  from  a  fountain  that  is  newly  sprung  forth  as  from  one  that 
is  not  newly  sprung  forth  ;  but  one  must  not  irrigate  it  with  rain- 
water, nor  with  water  (drawn)  from  a  deep  well ;  nor  may  one 
make  trenches  (to  hold  water)  round  vines. 

R.  Elazar  ben  Azariah  said :  '^  One  must  not  make  (dig)  a 
fresh  trench  (conduit,  or  water  course)  during  the  middle  days,  or 
during  the  Sabbatical  year."  The  sages,  however,  hold,  that  a 
fresh  trench  (water  course)  may  be  dug  during  the  Sabbatical 
year,  and  that  those  (conduits)  which  are  choked  up  may  be  repaired 
during  the  middle  days.  One  may  likewise  repair  water  reservoirs 
(which  are)  on  the  public  ground,  and  cleanse  them.  One  may 
also  repair  the  roads  (streets),  the  market  (public)  places,  and  the 
spring-baths.  In  short,  it  is  allowed  to  do  whatever  the  exigen- 
cies of  the  public  (service)  require.  Tombs  may  be  marked,  and 
messengers  are  to  be  sent  out  on  account  of  possible  Kilaim.* 

GEMARA :  As  the  Mishna  permits  irrigation  from  a  newly 
sprung  fountain,  although  its  sides  are  likely  to  cave  in,  it  is  self- 
understood  then  that  it  is  the  more  so  allowed  from  a  fountain 
not  newly  sprung,  the  sides  of  which  are  not  likely  to  cave  in  ? 
For  what  purpose  then  did  the  Mishna  state  expressly  that  irriga- 
tion is  also  allowed  from  a  fountain  not  newly  sprung?  If  not  for 
this  statement  we  might  assume  that  from  a  newly  sprung  foun- 
tain whose  sides  are  likely  to  cave  in,  dry  land  may  and  lowland 

*  Ficfe  Shekalim,  Chap.  I.,  M.    a. 


2  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

may  not  be  irrigated,  but  from  a  spring  not  newly  sprung  even 
Beth  Habal  (lowland  not  requiring  frequent  irrigation)  may  also 
be  irrigated,  it  therefore  comes  to  teach  us  that  there  is  no  differ- 
ence. 

But  whence  do  we  deduce  that  *'  Beth  Hashal'hin  "  means 
dry  land.  From  the  passage  [Deut.  xxv.  i8]  :  ''  When  thou  wast 
'faint*  and  weary";  the  translation  of  Onkeles  of  \\^ich  is: 
"  When  thou  wast  '  Mshalhi '  and  weary."  (The  letter  '*  h  "  is 
changeable  for  "  'h  "  ;  and  "  mshalhi  "  is  equivalent  to  "  mshal'hi.") 
And  whence  do  we  deduce  that  "  Beth  Habal  "  means  "  husband 
fields  "  ?  From  the  passage  [Isaiah,  Ixii.  5]  :  "  For  as  a  young 
man  *  espouseth '  a  virgin,"  etc.,  the  translation  of  Jonathan 
whereof  being  *'  as  a  young  man  '  husbands '  a  virgin,"  etc. 

Who  is  the  Tana  who  holds  that  irrigation  is  permitted  only 
for  the  purpose  of  preventing  loss  but  not  for  the  purpose  of  de- 
riving gain  ;  and  even  in  case  of  loss  no  troublesome  work  is  per- 
mitted ?  Said  R.  Huna :  "  It  is  R.  EHezer  ben  Jacob,  as  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Mishna :  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  said : 
Water  may  be  conveyed  from  one  tree  to  another,  provided  the 
whole  orchard  be  not  irrigated."  (This  is  in  the  case  of  lowland  and 
because  it  is  only  for  gain;  R.  EHezer  said  it  must  not.)  From 
this  statement  it  may  only  be  deduced  that  R.  Eliezer  holds  so 
in  case  of  gain,  but  no  deduction  can  be  made  therefrom  as  to 
where  loss  is  involved  ?  Therefore  said  R.  Papa  :  It  is  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Jehudah  of  the  following  Boraitha :  From  a  newly 
sprung  fountain  even  lowland  may  be  irrigated,  this  is  the  dictum 
of  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah  holds  that  only  dry  land  which  became 
ruined  may  be  irrigated.  R.  Elazar  b.  Azariah,  however,  agrees 
Avith  neither  of  them.  R.  Jehudah  went  further  than  that  and 
said :  ''  One  may  not  direct  a  water  channel  to  irrigate  his  garden 
and  ruined  land,  during  the  middle  days." 

What  is  meant  by  "  ruined  "  ?  Does  it  mean  actual  ruin  ? 
why  then  irrigating  it  ?  Said  Abayi :  ''  It  means,  land  one  spring 
of  which  was  ruined  but  another  one  sprung  forth."  R.  Elazar  b. 
Azariah,  however,  does  not  allow  even  in  this  case.  But  why  all 
this  argument?  Perhaps  R.  Jehudah  did  not  allow  the  irrigation 
of  lowland  only  from  a  new  spring,  for  the  reason  stated  above  ; 
but  from  an  old  spring,  the  sides  of  which  are  not  likely  to  cave  in, 
it  is  permitted?  If  this  be  so,  then  according  to  whom  would  be 
the  statement  in  our  Mishna  ?  We,  therefore,  must  say,  that 
according  to  R.  Jehudah  from  both  newly  sprung  and  not  newly 
sprung  fountains  dry  land  may  and  lowland  may  not  be  irrigated ; 


TRACT    MOED    KATAN    (MINOR    FESTIVALS).  3 

and  the  statement  in  the  Boraitha :  *'  From  a  newly  sprung  foun- 
tain," etc.,  is  for  the  purpose  of  indicating  the  extent  of  R.  Meir's 
permission,  viz.,  that  dry  land  may  be  irrigated,  and  even  from  a 
newly  sprung  fountain.  It  was  taught :  "  One  who  weeds  or 
waters  plants  on  Sabbath,  against  what  principal  labor  must  he 
be  warned  ?  "  *  Said  Rabba  :  '*  Ploughing,  as  these  are  derivative 
from  it."  R.  Joseph,  however,  said :  '*  Sowing,  as  these  are 
derivative  from  it." 

This  would  be  correct  as  for  the  intermitting  days,  during 
which  work  is  permitted  in  case  of  loss ;  but  as  for  the  Sabbatical 
year,  during  which  both  ploughing  and  sowing  are  prohibited,  how 
can  it  be  allowed  ?  Said  Abayi :  "  The  Mishna  treats  of  the 
Sabbatical  year  subsequent  to  the  destruction  of  the  Temple,  and 
Rabbi  said  elsewhere  that  this  is  only  rabbinical."  Rabha,  how- 
ever, said :  ''  The  Mishna  may  be  explained  even  according  to 
the  rabbis,  who  hold  that  it  is  biblical,  but  the  Scripture  prohibits 
only  principal  labors  but  not  derivative ;  as  it  is  written  [Lev. 
XXV.  4]  :  "  But  in  the  seventh  year  there  shall  be  a  sabbath  of 
rest  unto  the  land,  a  sabbath  of  the  Lord  ;  thy  field  shalt  thou 
not  sow,  and  thy  vineyard  shalt  thou  not  prune,"  etc.  Let  us 
see :  Is  not  sowing  the  principal  of  pruning,  and  is  not  reaping 
the  principal  of  gathering?  For  what  purpose  then  did  the 
Scripture  expressly  state  pruning  and  gathering?  We  must  say 
that  it  is  to  point  out  the  derivatives  for  which  one  is  Hable. 

But  is  one  not  liable  even  for  other  derivatives  ?  Did  we  not 
learn  in  a  Boraitha  :  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxv.  4]  :  ''  Thy  field  shalt 
thou  not  sow,  and  thy  vineyard  shalt  thou  not  prune  "?  Whence 
do  we  deduce  that  weeding,  grubbing  up  vines,  cutting,  plucking, 
sawing  (off  branches,  when  they  are  too  numerous),  and  support- 
ing (trees),  manuring,  removing  rubbish  from  the  roots,  or  cover- 
ing the  roots  with  earth,  or  smoking  (for  the  purpose  of  killing 
the  insects  on  the  tree)  are  also  not  permitted  to  be  done  during 
the  Sabbatical  year  ?  From  the  arrangements  of  the  words  in 
the  passage :  It  is  not  written  :  '*  Thou  shalt  not  sow  thy  field, 
and  thou  shalt  not  prune  thy  vineyard,"  but,  "  Thy  field  shalt 
thou  not  sow,"  etc.,  which  indicates  that  all  work  pertaining  to 
the  field  and  all  work  pertaining  to  the  vineyard  shall  not  be 
done.  But  this  generalization  does  not  include  grubbing  up 
olive-trees,  or  vines,  or  fiUing  water  conduits,  or  digging  trenches 


*  No  capital   punishment,  nor  even   that  of  stripes,  is  inflicted  without  a  previous 
varning.      Fic/c  Introduction  to  Sabbath,  p.  xxvi. 


4  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

round  vines.  Whence  do  we  deduce  these  exceptions?  From 
the  statement,  "Thy  field  thou  shalt  not  sow."  Was  not  sowing 
included  in  the  general  commandment,  "  A  year  of  rest  shall  it 
be  unto  the  land"?  Why  the  repetition  of  sowing?  For  the 
purpose  of  comparison :  As  "  sowing  "  includes  both  the  field 
and  the  vineyard,  so  other  labor  similar  to  it  is  prohibited. 
(Hence  we  see  that  for  other  derivatives  one  is  also  liable?) 
Nay,  all  those  enumerated  in  the  Boraitha  are  only  rabbinical 
prohibitions,  and  the  biblical  passage  is  only  a  slight  reference. 

Is  grubbing  up  olive-trees  permitted  during  the  Sabbatical 
year?  Is  it  not  written  [Exod.  xxii.  ii]:  '*  But  the  seventh 
year  shalt  thou  let  it  rest  and  lie  still,"  etc.,  and  it  was  construed 
to  mean,  "  let  it  rest  from  being  grubbed,  and  lie  still  from  being 
cleaned  from  stones "  ?  Said  R.  Uqba  bar  Hama :  "  Grub- 
bing is  done  for  two  different  purposes,  viz.,  to  promote  the 
growth  of,  and  to  fill  the  cracks  in  the  tree  ;  the  latter  is  per- 
mitted, the  former  is  not. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Mishna  (Shekalim  I.,  i) :  '^  Up  to  what 
time  is  it  permitted  to  dig  in  an  orchard  during  the  year  immedi- 
ately preceding  the  Sabbatical  year  ?  The  school  of  Shammai 
hold,  during  all  the  time  the  fruit  may  benefit  thereby.  The 
school  of  Hillel,  however,  decree,  up  to  the  feast  of  Pentecost." 
Both  these  limits  are  almost  identical.  And  up  to  what  time  is 
it  permitted  to  plough  corn-fields  during  the  year  preceding  the 
Sabbatical  year  ?  Until  the  ground  ceases  to  be  damp,  and 
during  all  the  time  people  till  the  soil  to  plant  melons  and 
cucumbers.  Said  R.  Simeon  :  "  If  this  be  so,  then  the  Law  per- 
mitted every  individual  to  fix  his  own  time  ?  "  Therefore,  the 
time  is  fixed  as  follows  :  Corn-fields  may  be  tilled  up  to  the  Pass- 
over and  orchards  up  to  Pentecost.  (The  school  of  Hillel  fix  the 
time  at  the  Passover.)  And  R.  Simeon  ben  Pazzi  in  the  name  of 
R.  Joshua  ben  Levi,  quoting  Bar  Qappara,  said  :  ''  Rabban  Ga- 
maliel and  his  tribunal  have  abolished  those  two  limits."  Said  R. 
Zera  to  R.  Abbahu  (and  according  to  others,  Resh  Lakish  to  R. 
Johanan)  :  ''  How  could  Rabban  Gamaliel  and  his  court  abolish 
a  regulation  established  by  the  schools  of  Shammai  and  Hillel  ? 
Did  we  not  learn  in  a  Mishna  :  No  one  court  is  permitted  to  over- 
rule the  decision  of  another  court,  unless  they  exceed  the  other 
in  number  and  wisdom?  He  was  astound  for  one  hour  [Daniel, 
iv.  1 6],  and  then  answered  :  Say,  so  was  the  condition  of  the 
first  court,  that  those  who  differ  with  them  may  overrule  them. 
R.  Ashi,  however,  said :  Rabban  Gamaliel  and  his  court  are  in 


TRACT   MOED   KATAN    (MINOR   FESTIVALS).  5 

accordance  with  R.  Ishmael,  who  holds  that  this  was  oral  law, 
and  as  such  it  was  binding  only  during  the  existence  of  the 
Temple,  similar  to  that  of  '^  pouring  water  on  the  altar,"  but  not 
after. 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  It  is  not  permitted  to  irrigate  from  the 
water  basins,  or  trenches,  which  were  filled  with  rain-water  on 
the  eve  of  the  feast,  unless  there  is  a  water-channel  passing 
between  them."  Said  R.  Papa  :  "  Even  this  is  permitted  only 
where  the  greater  part  of  the  land  is  irrigated  therefrom."  R. 
Ashi,  however,  said  :  *'  It  is  permitted  even  if  this  is  not  the  case, 
for  when  water  is  likely  to  flow  in  (into  the  channel)  one  is  not 
likely  to  do  any  troublesome  work,  and  is  rather  likely  to  think 
to  himself,  *  if  it  cannot  be  irrigated  in  one  day  it  will  be  so  in 
two  or  three  days.'  " 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  It  is  permitted  to  irrigate  dry  land  from 
a  water  basin  which  receives  its  water  supply  from  the  dry  land 
situated  above  it  "  (the  upper  land  being  irrigated  from  a  well 
and  some  water  is  dripping  down  into  the  basin).  But  is  it  not 
likely  to  cease  (and  some  troublesome  work  may  be  done  in 
bringing  water  from  another  place)?  Said  R.  Jeremiah:  "The 
case  is  when  it  is  still  dripping."  Abayi  adds  :  *'  This  case  holds 
good  only  when  the  original  spring  has  not  ceased." 

"  One  must  not  make  a  fresh  trench,'  etc.  This  would  be  cor- 
rect in  reference  to  the  middle  days,  because  it  is  considered 
work,  but  what  is  the  reason  for  the  Sabbatical  year  ?  R.  Zera 
and  R.  Abba  bar  Mamel :  One  holds,  the  reason  is  because  it 
resembles  delving ;  and  the  other  says,  because  it  is  considered  a 
preparation  of  the  adjacent  ground  for  sowing. 

''And  those  conduits  that  are  choked  up  may  be  cleansed!' 
What  is  meant  by  "  choked  up  "  ?  Said  R.  Abba :  "  If  it  was 
only  one  span  deep,  it  may  be  restored  to  its  original  depth  of 
six  spans." 

Abayi  allowed  the  inhabitants  of  Hamdoch  to  cut  off  the 
branches  of  the  trees  growing  in  the  river  (during  the  middle 
days).  R.  Jeremiah  allowed  the  inhabitants  of  Sekutha  to 
cleanse  a  choked  well  of  the  river.  R.  Ashi  permitted  the  inhab- 
itants of  Matha  M'hasiah  to  deepen  the  river  Burniz  ;  and  the 
reason  assigned  by  him  for  this  permission  was,  that  because 
many  persons  used  its  water  it  was  to  be  considered  as  a  public 
necessity,  and  our  Mishna  states  that  all  work  for  public  service 
is  permitted. 

"  One  may  repair  water  reservoirs  located  on  public  ground!' 


6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Is  cleansing  only,  and  no  digging,  permitted  ?  Said  R.  Jacob  in 
the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  The  Mishna  refers  to  a  case  in  which 
the  public  do  not  need  it,  but  otherwise  even  digging  is  per- 
mitted. Is  that  so  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha : 
*'  Basins,  pits,  and  cavities  may  be  cleansed,  if  they  belong  to 
private  persons,  and  so  much  the  more  if  they  are  public.  But 
it  is  not  allowed  to  dig  even  when  they  are  public,  and  so  much 
the  more  when  they  are  private."  Should  we  not  assume,  that 
it  is  not  permitted  even  when  needed  by  the  public  ?  Nay,  the 
case  is  when  the  public  do  not  need  it.  Then  how  would  it  be  in 
case  of  the  private  ones  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  it  is  even  when 
one  does  not  need  it  ?  Then  why  should  cleansing  be  permitted  ? 
Explain  thus :  Private  basins  may  be  cleansed  when  needed  by 
him,  and  so  much  the  more  public  basins  if  required  by  the 
public ;  but  it  is  not  permitted  to  do  so  even  when  they  are 
public  in  case  they  are  not  needed  by  the  pubHc,  and  so  much 
the  more  private  ones  if  not  needed  by  the  owners,  for  if  not 
needed  by  the  owners  even  cleansing  is  not  permitted.  Said 
R.  Ashi :  "  The  explanation  of  our  Mishna  seems  to  mean  the 
same,  as  it  states  all  that  is  necessary,"  etc.,  and  this  word  *'  all " 
adds  also  digging.  But  the  expression  ''  all  "  may  include  the 
works  enumerated  in  the  following  Boraitha :  Messengers  may 
be  sent  out  (on  the  middle  days)  to  remove  prickles  from  the 
roads  and  to  repair  the  markets  and  thoroughfares,  and  to  ascer- 
tain the  contents  of  the  legal  baths ;  and  if  they  do  not  contain 
the  prescribed  measure  they  must  be  regulated.  And  whence  do 
we  deduce  that  if  the  messengers  were  not  sent  out  and  in  conse- 
quence thereof  an  accident  happened,  that  those  guilty  of  such 
neglect  are  personally  charged  with  having  caused  that  accident  ? 
Therefore  it  is  written  [Deut.  xix.  lo]  :  ''  And  bloodguiltiness 
be  brought  upon  thee  "  ?  Are  all  these  not  expressly  stated  in  our 
Mishna  ?  *'  The  roads,"  etc.,  "  may  be  repaired  ?  "  why  then 
repeat,  *'  all  "  what  is  required  by  the  public,  etc.?  We  must  then 
assume  that  it  adds  digging.     Infer  herefrom. 

''And  tombs  may  be  marked,'*  g\.c.  R.  Simeon  b.  Pazzi  said: 
Where  is  it  hinted  at  in  the  Scripture  that  tombs  must  be 
marked?  It  is  written  [Ezek.  xxxix.  15]:  "When  any  one 
seeth  a  man's  bone,  there  shall  be  set  up  a  sign  by  it."  Said 
Rabina  to  R.  Ashi :  Were  not  tombs  marked  prior  to  Ezekiel  ? 
Therefore  we  must  say,  that  it  was  traditional  and  the  passage  in 
Ezekiel  only  refers  to  it.  Rabina,  however,  said  :  We  may  find 
a  reference  to  this  in  the  follovv^ng  passage  [Psalms,  1.  23]:  ''And 


TRACT    MOED    KATAN    (MINOR   FESTIVALS).  7 

to  him  that  ordered  his  course  ariglit  will  I  show  the  salvation  of 
God."  (From  this  passage  it  may  be  inferred  that  the  tombs  were 
marked  in  order  not  to  pass  over  them.)  As  R.  Joshua  b.  Levi 
said  :  One  who  weighs  his  ways  will  be  rewarded  in  seeing  the  sal- 
vation of  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He.  As  the  Hebrew  term  of 
the  above  passage  is '*  Vessom  derech,"  do  not  read  *' vessom," 
but  "  veshom."  *  A  pupil  of  R.  Janai  who  was  wont  to  ask 
questions  of  the  latter  whenever  he  was  lecturing,  refrained  from 
doing  so  on  the  Sabbath  preceding  a  holiday,  when  a  multitude 
of  people  used  to  gather  (for  fear  that  R.  Janai  might  not  be 
able  to  answer  him  and  get  confused),  and  R.  Janai  referred  to 
him  the  passage  just  quoted  (as  explained  by  R.  Joshua  b.  Levi). 

The  rabbis  taught :  Those  things  which  cannot  communicate 
uncleanliness  when  in  a  tent  need  not  be  marked ;  but  the  fol- 
lowing parts  of  a  dead  person  must  be  marked :  the  spinal  cord  ; 
the  head ;  the  major  part  of  the  structure  of  the  skeleton,  and 
the  major  number  of  parts  of  the  skeleton.  Those  places  which 
are  known  to  be  unclean  need  not  be  marked,  but  those  which 
are  doubtful  need  be.  The  following  are  considered  doubtful 
places :  Those  having  trees  with  spread  out  branches,  places  near 
fences  the  stones  of  which  are  projecting  forward,  and  Beth 
Haperes  (Perch) :  and  no  signs  should  be  put  up  on  the  very  spot 
of  the  uncleanliness  (but  a  short  distance  away),  in  order  not  to 
injure  those  who  are  clean  (because  if  one  inadvertently  approaches 
the  sign  he  becomes  unclean) ;  neither  shall  a  sign  be  put  too  far 
away  from  the  unclean  spot,  in  order  not  to  injure  the  land  of 
Israel  (i.e.,  not  to  mark  too  much  clean  space  as  unclean).  R. 
Jehudah  said  :  ''  No  marking  should  be  done  unless  there  is  the 
Elder  (of  the  congregation)  or  a  scholar,  for  not  every  one  is 
experienced  in  such  things."  Said  Abayi  :  ''  From  this  we  may 
infer,  that  if  there  is  a  young  scholar  in  the  city,  all  the  business 
of  the  congregation  must  be  attended  to  by  him  "  (if  there  is  no 
one  else  do  do  it). 

''And  messengers  are  to  be  sent  out  on  account  of  Kilaim.'' 
Were  messengers  sent  out  on  the  middle  days  ?  Have  we  not 
learned  in  a  Mishna  (Shekalim,  L,  a)  that  they  were  sent  out  on 
the  first  day  of  Adar?  R.  Elazar  and  R.  Jose  bar  'Hanina  :  One 
explains  the  contradiction  thus :    "  Our  Mishna  relates  to  those 

*  The  letter  "Shin"  in  Hebrew  when  pointed  rightward  reads  "sh";  when 
pointed  left  reads  "ss."  The  word  "shorn"  in  question  is  pointed  left  and  the 
rabbi  reads  it  as  if  pointed  right,  and  explains  it  to  have  the  meaning  of  the  Ara» 
maic  "  Shomin  " — to  weigh,  to  estimate, 


8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

plants  which  are  late  in  season  and  the  other  to  those  early  in 
season."  The  other  explains  that  our  Mishna  refers  to  vegetables 
and  the  other  to  herbs.  Said  R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  : 
This  is  the  case  only  when  the  plants  have  not  sprung  up,  but 
when  they  have  (and  Kilaim  were  noticed)  messengers  are  sent 
out  even  before.  Why  are  messengers  sent  out  on  the  middle 
days?  Said  R.  Jacob  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  Because  on 
those  days  labor  is  cheap.  How  much  of  the  mixed  seeds  must 
there  be  in  order  to  constitute  Kilaim?  Said  R.  Samuel  bar 
Itz'hak:  As  we  have  learned  (in  Kilaim,  IL,  i) :  ''Every  Sah 
that  contains  one-fourth  of  seed  of  another  species  must  be 
lessened."  But  did  we  not  learn  in  a  Boraitha :  "  It  was  de- 
termined that  the  whole  field  be  confiscated  (made  ownerless)"? 
This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  former  was  said  before  and  the 
latter  after  the  determination  was  made,  as  we  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha  :  Formerly  the  messengers  used  to  pull  out  the  Kilaim 
and  throw  them  to  the  cattle,  and  the  owners  used  to  be  doubly 
pleased,  first  because  their  fields  were  weeded,  and  secondly  be- 
cause their  cattle  were  fed  ;  so  it  was  determined  that  it  be  pulled 
out  and  thrown  on  the  roads,  but  the  owners  were  still  very 
pleased  because  of  the  weeding  of  their  fields,  and  it  was  finally 
determined  that  the  whole  field  should  be  given  to  the  free  use 
of  the  people. 

MISHNA :  R.  Elazar  ben  Jacob  said  :  "  One  may  lead  water 
from  one  tree  to  another,  provided  always  the  whole  orchard  be 
not  irrigated  ;  plants  which  have  not  imbibed  (water)  before  the 
middle  days,  must  not  be  irrigated  during  the  middle  days.  The 
sages,  however,  permit  both." 

GEMARA :  R.  Jehudah  said :  "  If  it  was  damp  land  it  may 
be  done."  So  also  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha : 
The  prohibition  to  irrigate  during  the  middle  days  applies  only 
to  plants  that  have  not  imbibed  prior  to  the  feast,  but  those  that 
have  may  be  irrigated  during  the  middle  days.  And  if  it  was 
damp  land  it  may.  Withered  land,  however,  must  not.  But  the 
sages  permit  both.  Rabina  said  :  From  this  it  is  to  be  inferred 
that  a  yard-garden  may  be  besprinkled  during  the  middle  days, 
for  what  is  the  reason  for  withered  land  ?  because  by  irrigation  it 
is  changed  from  one  late  in  season  unto  one  early  in  season  ? 
The  same  is  the  case  with  a  yard-garden. 

MISHNA :  One  may  catch  Ishuth  (moles)  and  field  mice  in 
orchards  and  fields  in  the  usual  manner,  both  during  the  middle 
days  and  the  Sabbatical  year.     The  sages,  however,  said,  that  in 


TRACT   MOED   KATAN    (MINOR   FESTIVALS).  9 

an  orchard  (the  vermin  may  be  caught)  in  the  usual  manner,  but 
that  in  a  corn-field  it  must  not  be  caught  in  the  usual  manner. 
During  the  middle  days  one  may  pile  (loose  stone)  to  stop  a  gap 
in  a  fence ;  on  the  Sabbatical  year,  however,  it  may  be  repaired 
in  the  ordinary  way. 

GEMARA:  What  is  '^shuth "  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah :  It  is 
an  eyeless  insect.  Said  Rabha  bar  Ishmael,  and  according  to 
others  R.  Yemar  bar  Shlamia :  Where  is  it  mentioned  in  the 
Scripture  that  Ishuth  is  an  eyeless  insect?  It  is  written  [Psalms, 
Iviii.  9]  :  '*  As  a  snail  which  melted,  let  him  pass  away,  like  the 
untimely  birth  of  a  woman  :  (Ehsheth)  *  which  hath  not  seen  the 
sunr 

''  But  that  in  a  corn-field  it  must  not  be  caught  in  the  usual 
manner y  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  ''  R.  Simeon  ben 
Elazar  (or  ben  Jacob)  said :  This  refers  only  to  those  corn-fields 
that  are  adjacent  to  a  town,  but  in  case  of  those  adjacent  to  an 
orchard  it  may  be  done  even  in  the  usual  manner,  for  the  reason 
that  they  might  overstep  the  boundary  and  injure  the  trees." 

"•  During  the  middle  days  one  may  pile  loose  stones  to  stop  a  gap 
in  a  fencer  With  what  is  it  stopped  ?  Said  R.  Joseph :  With 
the  twigs  of  shrubbery  and  the  bay-tree.  In  a  Boraitha  we  have 
learned :  ''  The  stones  may  be  piled  up  but  no  mortar  must  be 
used."  Said  R.  Hisda :  ''This  applies  only  to  garden  fences, 
but  in  case  of  court  walls  it  may  be  rebuilt  in  the  usual  manner." 
Said  R.  Ashi :  This  may  be  inferred  from  our  own  Mishna.  It 
states :  "  And  during  the  Sabbatical  year  it  may  be  rebuilt  in  the 
usual  manner."  This  statement  cannot  relate  to  a  court  wall, 
because  there  is  no  reason  why  it  should  not  be  permitted  ;  it 
must  then  relate  to  garden  fences,  and  although  it  looks  as  if 
done  for  the  purpose  of  protecting  the  fruit,  infer  herefrom  that 
it  is  permitted. 

MISHNA  :  R.  Meir  said  :  Priests  make  the  first  inspection  of 
the  plague  (of  leprosy)  in  order  to  reheve  (the  patient)  but  not 
to  restrict  him.  The  sages,  however,  decide,  neither  to  relieve 
nor  to  restrict. 

GEMARA:  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  ''  R.  Jose  holds, 
neither  to  relieve  nor  to  restrict,  for  the  reason  that  if  an  inspec- 
tion is  made,  if  you  cannot  relieve  him  you  must  restrict  him." 
Said  Rabbi :  "•  R.  Meir's  decision  seems  to  be  more  proper  in  the 


*  "  Ishuth  "  and   Ehsheth  are  similar  in   pronunciation,  and  it  states,  "which 
hath  not  seen  the  sun," 


lo  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

case  of  one  who  is  still  subject  to  the  examination ;  and  R.  Jose's 
decision  seems  to  be  the  more  proper  one  in  the  case  of  one  who 
was  decidedly  afflicted  with  the  disease."  Said  Rabha :  They 
all  agree  that  no  examination  is  made  (during  the  middle  days) 
of  a  clean  person ;  they  also  all  agree  that  an  inspection  may  be 
made  during  the  first  seclusion  ;  *  in  what  they  differ  is :  in  the 
case  of  the  second  seclusion.  One  holds  that  it  is  discretionary 
with  the  priest.  If  he  finds  him  clean,  he  informs  him  ;  but  if  he 
finds  him  unclean,  he  keeps  silent.  And  the  other  holds  that,  as 
it  is  written  [Lev.  xiii.  59]  :  "  To  pronou7ice  him  clean  or  unclean," 
he  must  in  either  case  proitounce  it.  The  Master  said  :  '*  Said 
Rabbi :  R.  Jose's  decision  seems  to  be  more  proper,"  etc.  But 
have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  vice  versa  ?  There  is  a  dif- 
ference of  opinions  between  the  Tanaim  in  regard  to  Rabbi's 
statement.  One  holds  that  one  (who  is  afflicted  with  the  plague) 
prefers  association  with  the  public ;  and  the  other  holds,  that  he 
appreciates  more  the  society  of  his  wife. 

MISHNA :  R.  Meir  further  said :  One  may  gather  the 
bones  of  his  father  or  mother  (during  the  middle  days  to  inter 
them),  because  it  is  a  joy  to  him  (it  relieves  his  mind).  But  R. 
Jose  said  :  "  It  is  a  grief  to  him  "  (afflicts  his  mind).  One  must 
not  grumble  over  his  dead,  nor  hold  a  funeral  oration  for  thirty 
days  before  the  festival. 

GEMARA :  There  is  a  contradiction  :  We  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha  (Ebel  Rabbatti,  XII.) :  f  ''  One  who  gathers  the  bones  of 
his  dead  father  or  mother  shall  mourn  over  them  the  whole  day, 
but  not  in  the  evening.  Said  R.  Hisda  :  This  is  applicable  even 
if  they  are  wrapped  up  in  his  mantle  (and  are  not  readily  seen  by 
him?)  Said  Abayi :  Read  in  the  Mishna :  R.  Meir  said,  etc.,  for 
the  enjoyment  of  the  festival  will  prevent  him  from  mourning." 

*^  One  must  not  gru7nble  over  his  deadT  What  is  meant  by 
**  grumble  "  ?  Said  Rabh  :  The  funeral  orators  in  Palestine  use 
the  following  expression  in  their  funeral  orations  :  '*  Let  all  the 
perturbed  join  him  in  mourning."  (The  Mishna  means,  then, 
that  he  should  not  excite  others  to  mourn.) 

"  Thirty  days  before  the  festival!'  Why  thirty?  Said  R. 
Kahana,  according  to  others  Rabh  :  *'  It  happened  once  that  a 
funeral  orator  came  around  to  the  house  of  one  who  had 
saved  up  some  money  for  the  prescribed  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem, 


*  See  Lev.  xiii.  5. 

f  See  our  introduction  to  same  tract. 


TRACT    MOED    KATAN    (MINOR   FESTIVALS).         ii 

and  he  so  pleased  the  wife  of  the  latter  with  his  orations  that  she 
handed  him  all  her  savings,  and  her  husband  was  prevented  from 
going  to  Jerusalem.  And  therefore  it  was  then  determined  that 
no  exciting  oration  be  held  within  thirty  days  preceding  a  fes- 
tival." Samuel,  however,  said  :  The  reason  is,  because  no  one 
departed  is  forgotten  by  his  mourners  during  the  first  thirty  days. 
In  what  respect  does  it  make  a  difference,  whether  the  one  or  the 
other  is  the  reason  ?  In  case  one  volunteers  to  do  it  without 
compensation.  (According  to  Rabh  it  may,  and  according  to 
Samuel  it  may  not  take  place.) 

MISHNA:  One  must  not  dig  graves  or  burial  vaults  on  the 
middle  days  ;  but  one  may  prepare  graves  (previously  dug) ;  and 
also  make  a  washing  pit,  and  a  cofifin  in  the  same  court  where  the 
corpse  lies.  This,  however,  R.  Jehudah  prohibits,  unless  the 
boards  have  been  (previously)  provided. 

GEMARA.  What  part  is  called  "  grave,"  and  what  part 
"vault  "?  Said  R.  Jehudah  :  Grave  is  the  excavation,  and  vault 
is  that  part  which  is  built  in  the  grave.  So  also  we  have  learned 
in  a  Boraitha. 

''But  one  may  prepare  gravest  What  is  meant  by  ''prepa- 
ration "  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah  :  "  If  it  was  too  long  it  may  be  short- 
ened." In  a  Boraitha  we  have  learned  that  it  may  be  made  both 
longer  and  wider. 

''  And  a  coffin  in  the  same  court  where  the  corpse  lies.  "  What 
we  read  in  this  Mishna  has  reference  to  what  the  rabbis  taught : 
"  All  that  is  necessary  to  be  done  for  the  dead  may  be  done :  his 
hair  may  be  cut,  his  wrapper  washed  ;  and  his  coffin  may  be  pre- 
pared from  boards  cut  before  the  festival."  R.  Simeon  ben 
Gamaliel  said  :  "  Timber  may  be  also  brought  and  boards  cut 
therefrom,  privately  in  the  house." 

MISHNA :  One  must  not  espouse  a  wife  on  the  middle  days 
— neither  virgins  nor  widows ;  nor  must  one  marry  the  childless 
widow  of  his  deceased  brother,*  as  that  (the  espousal)  is  a  cause 
of  joy  to  him  (individually),  but  one  may  receive  back  his  own 
divorced  wife.  A  woman  may  prepare  her  ornaments  on  the 
middle  days.  R.  Jehudah  said  :  ''  She  must  not  apply  lime  (chalk 
as  a  cosmetic),  because  it  may  disfigure  her.  A  layman  may  sew 
(make  stitches)  in  the  regular  way  ;  but  the  tailor  must  do  it  zig- 
zag. One  may  twine  (the  ropes  in  the  sacking)  of  bedsteads." 
R.  Jose,  however,  said :  ''  They  may  only  be  tightened." 

*  See  Deut.  xxv.  5-n. 


12  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

GEMARA:  And  if  it  is  a  cause  of  joy  to  him,  why  not? 
Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  and  so  also  said  R.  Ela- 
zar  in  the  name  of  R.  Oshiya  or  Hanina :  ''  For  the  reason  that 
two  different  joys  must  not  be  comingled."  Rabba  bar  Huna 
said :  "  For  the  reason  that  the  enjoyment  of  the  festival  is  neg- 
lected on  account  of  the  enjoyment  over  his  wife."  Said  Abayi 
to  R.  Joseph :  The  statement  of  Rabba  bar  Huna  was  originally 
made  by  Rabh,  as  R.  Daniel  bar  Ktina  said  in  the  name  of 
Rabh  :  Whence  do  we  deduce  that  it  is  not  permitted  to  espouse 
wives  on  the  middle  days?  For  it  is  written  [Deut.  xvi.  14]: 
'*  And  thou  shalt  rejoice  on  thy  feast."  Over  thy  feast  thou  shalt 
rejoice^  but  not  over  thy  wife.  Ula  said  :  *'  The  reason  is  :  Because 
there  would  be  too  much  trouble."  R.  Itz'hak  of  Naf'ha  said  : 
*'  The  reason  is,  in  order  not  to  restrict  reproduction  (for  every 
one  will  postpone  his  marriage  until  the  festival)." 

An  objection  was  made:  We  have  learned  elsewhere:  "All 
those  said  to  be  prohibited  from  espousing  wives  on  the  middle 
days,  may  do  so  on  the  eve  of  the  feast."  This  seems  to  contra- 
dict all  those  reasons  assigned  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty : 
According  to  the  one  who  said,  because  of  the  enjoyment — the 
main  enjoyment  over  his  bride  is  on  the  first  day  only  ;  according 
to  the  one  who  said,  it  is  the  trouble — the  main  trouble  is  also  on 
the  first  day  only  ;  and  according  to  the  one  who  said,  in  order 
not  to  restrict  reproduction — for  one  single  day  no  one  will  post- 
pone it. 

But  whence  do  we  deduce  that  two  different  joys  may  not  be 
comingled?  It  is  written  [I  Kings,  viii.  65]:  *' And  Solomon 
held  at  the  time  the  feast,"  etc.,  "  seven  days  and  seven  days, 
even  fourteen  days."  Now  then,  if  comingling  of  two  different 
joys  were  permitted,  why  did  Solomon  not  postpone  it  until 
the  feast  and  the  seven  days  of  the  feast  would  have  served  for 
both?  R.  Parnach  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said:  On  that 
year  the  Israelites  had  not  observed  the  Day  of  Atonement  and 
they  were  perturbed  and  thought  they  were  sinful,  and  a 
Heavenly  voice  was  heard  announcing  :  *'  All  of  you  are  prepared 
for  the  world  to  come." 

It  is  written  [I  Kings,  viii.  (i6\  :  "  On  the  eighth  day  he  dis- 
missed the  people,  and  they  blessed  the  king  and  they  went  unto 
their  tents,"  etc. 

**  And  they  went  unto  their  tents,"  meaning,  they  found  their 
wives  clean.  *'  Joyful  " — they  were  delighted  with  the  brightness 
of  the  Shekhina.     "  Glad  of  heart  " — the  wife  of  every  one  be- 


TRACT    MOED   KATAN    (MINOR   FESTIVALS).         13 

came  pregnant  with  a  male  child.  ''  Because  of  the  good,"  etc. 
— for  the  announcement  of  the  Heavenly  voice,  as  stated  above. 
"  For  David  his  servant  and  Israel  his  people" — this  would  be 
correct  so  far  as  Israel  is  concerned,  for  they  were  forgiven  their 
neglect  to  observe  the  Day  of  Atonement ;  but  what  is  hinted  at 
by  the  statement,  ''  For  David  his  servant  "  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah 
in  the  name  of  Rabh :  When  Solomon  desired  to  place  the  ark  in 
the  Temple,  the  gates  became  fastened  to  each  other  and  they 
could  not  be  opened.  Solomon  then  pronounced  twenty-four 
prayer-songs  and  was  not  answered.  He  then  commenced  to  pray 
[Psalm,  xxiv.  7]  :  "  Raise  your  heads,  O  ye  gates,"  etc.,  and  still 
he  was  not  answered  ;  but  when  he  finally  said  [II  Chron.  vi.  42]: 
**  O  Lord  God,  turn  not  away  the  face  of  thy  anointed,  remember 
the  pious  deeds  of  David  thy  servant,"  he  was  at  once  answered. 
At  that  moment  the  enemies  of  David  became  as  black  as  the 
bottom  of  a  pot,  and  then  it  was  known  to  all  that  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  had  forgiven  David  t/iat  sin  (of  Bath-Sheba). 

R.  Jonathan  ben  Esmai  and  R.  Jehudah  b.  Gerim  had  been 
studying  the  chapter  treating  of  Vows  before  R.  Simeon  b.  Jo'hi. 
In  the  evening  they  took  leave  of  him  and  departed.  On  the 
following  morning  they  returned  and  asked  leave  again.  R. 
Simeon  b.  Jo'hi  questioned  them :  "  Did  you  not  take  leave  of 
me  last  night  ?  "  They  answered  him  :  "  Did  not  our  Master  teach 
us,  that  a  disciple  who  takes  leave  of  his  instructor  and  remains 
in  the  same  place  over  night  must  take  leave  again  ?  "  As  it  is  writ- 
ten [I  Kings,  vii.  66]  :  "  On  the  eighth  day  he  dismissed  the  peo- 
ple, and  they  blessed  the  king  "  ;  and  it  is  again  written  [II  Chron. 
vii.  10]  :  *'  And  on  the  twenty-third  day  of  the  seventh  month 
he  dismissed  the  people."  Infer  from  this,  that  a  disciple  who 
after  taking  leave  of  his  Master  remains  over  night  in  the  same 
place  must  take  leave  again.  Then  he  (R.  Simeon  b.  Jo'hi)  said 
to  his  son  :  *'  These  men  are  of  nice  countenance  (scholarly). 
Go  and  receive  their  blessing."  He  went,  and  found  them  dis- 
cussing the  contradiction  of  the  following  passages :  It  is  written 
[Prov.  iv.  26]  :  "  Balance  well  the  track  of  thy  foot,  and  let  all 
thy  ways  be  firmly  right "  ;  and  ibid.  v.  6  reads :  "  So  that  (she) 
cannot  balance  the  path  of  life "  ?  This  presents  no  difificulty. 
The  first  passage  refers  to  a  commandment  that  can  be  performed 
by  others,  and  the  other  passage  has  reference  to  such  as  cannot 
be  performed  by  others.  They  again  propounded  a  question  : 
It  is  written  [Prov.  iii.  15]  :  '*  She  is  more  precious  than  pearls, 
and  all  the  things  thou  vainest  are  not  equal  unto  her."     From 


14  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

this  it  seems  that  Heavenly  things  are  equal.  And  it  is  written 
[ibid.  viii.  2]  :  ''  And  a/l  the  things  that  men  wish  for  are  not  equal 
to  her  "  ;  from  which  it  seems  that  Heavenly  things  are  also  in- 
cluded ?  And  the  above  answer  was  applied  also  to  answer  this 
contradiction. 

They  then  turned  to  him  and  asked  him  what  his  wishes  were, 
and  he  answered  :  '^  Father  sent  me  here  to  receive  your  blessing." 
They  then  pronounced :  *'  Let  it  be  the  Will  that  thou  shalt  sow 
but  not  reap,  thou  shalt  bring  in  but  not  give  forth,  thou  shalt 
give  forth  but  not  bring  in ;  thy  house  shall  be  ruined  and  thy 
temporary  dwelling  shall  remain ;  thy  table  shall  be  confused ; 
and  thou  shalt  not  see  a  new  year."  When  he  returned  to  his 
father  he  said :  "  Not  only  did  they  not  bless  me,  but,  on  the 
contrary,  they  cursed  me  !  "  and  he  recited  the  above.  His  father 
replied :  All  those  are  blessings ;  viz. :  **  Thou  shalt  sow  and 
not  reap  "  means,  allegorically,  *'  Thou  shalt  bear  children  and  they 
shall  not  die."  "  Thou  shalt  bring  in  and  not  give  forth  " — 
*'  Thou  shalt  bring  in  thy  house  wives  for  thy  sons,  and  thy  male 
children  shall  not  die,  so  their  wives  will  not  need  to  leave  thy 
house."  ''  Thou  shalt  give  forth  and  not  bring  in  " — "  Thou 
shalt  have  daughters  and  their  husbands  shall  not  die,  so  that 
they  shall  not  be  compelled  to  return  to  thy  house."  "  Thy 
house  shall  be  ruined  and  thy  temporary  dwelling  shall  remain  " 
— for  this  world  is  only  a  temporary  dwelling  and  the  world  to 
come  is  the  real  house,  as  it  is  written  [Psalms,  xlix.  12]  :  "Their 
inward  thought  (Kirbom)  is,  that  their  houses  are  to  be  forever." 
Do  not  read  "  kirbom,"  but  "  kivrom  "  (their  graves).  '^  Thy 
table  shall  be  confused  " — by  thy  many  children.  *'  And  thou 
shalt  not  see  a  new  year  " — '*  Thy  wife  shall  not  die,  so  that  thou 
shalt  not  be  compelled  to  marry  another." 

R.  Simeon  b.  Halafta  took  leave  of  Rabh,  and  the  latter  said 
to  his  son :  "  Go  to  him  and  receive  his  blessing."  R.  Simeon 
pronounced  the  following :  '^  Let  it  be  the  Will  that  thou  shalt 
not  shame  others  and  others  shall  not  shame  thee."  When  he 
returned  to  his  father  he  said :  "  He  did  not  bless  me,  but  only 
advised  me."  And  his  father  rejoined :  ''  Nay,  it  is  a  blessing ; 
and  it  is  the  same,  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  pronounced 
over  Israel,  as  it  is  written  [Joel,  ii.  26]  :  "■  And  ye  shall  eat  in 
plenty,"  etc.,  "  and  my  people  shall  not  be  ashamed  unto  eter- 
nity "  ;  and  repeated  in  the  next  passage  :  *'  And  ye  shall  know 
that  I  am  in  the  midst  of  Israel,"  etc.,  "  and  my  people  shall 
not  be   made  ashamed   unto  eternity."     The   repetition  herein 


TRACT   MOED   KATAN   (MINOR   FESTIVALS).        15 

means,  both  that  they  shall  not  shame  others  and  others  shall 
not  shame  them. 

''A  woman  may  prepare  her  ornaments''  etc.  The  wife  of  R. 
Hisda  was  once  ornamenting  herself  in  the  presence  of  her 
daughter-in-law.  R.  Huna  bar  Dinna,  who  was  present  at  the 
time,  said  :  "  It  seems  to  me  that  only  a  young  woman  is  allowed 
to  prepare  her  ornaments,  but  not  an  old  one  ?  "  And  R.  Hisda 
rejoined  :  "  By  the  Lord  !  even  your  mother  and  your  grand- 
mother, and  even  the  woman  who  is  on  the  brink  of  her  grave ; 
as  the  proverb  goes :  '  A  woman  of  sixty  is  as  enthusiastic  over 
the  music  of  a  cymbal  as  a  girl  of  six.' " 

"■  R.  Jehudah  said :  She  must  not  apply  limey'  etc.  R.  Bibi's 
daughter  applied  gradually  cosmetics  to  every  part  of  her  body, 
and  she  improved  so  much  that  she  received  a  dowry  of  four 
hundred  Zuz.  The  daughter  of  a  stranger  who  resided  in  the 
neighborhood  (of  R.  Bibi),  learning  of  that,  applied  a  cosmetic  at 
once  to  all  parts  of  her  body,  and  in  consequence  thereof  died. 
The  stranger  then  said  :  ''  Bibi  killed  my  daughter."  R.  Na'hman 
said  :  ''  In  R.  Bibi's  house,  where  beer  was  used,  his  daughters 
had  to  use  cosmetics,  but  in  our  houses,  where  beer  is  not  used, 
our  daughters  need  not  apply  cosmetics." 

**  The  layman  may  sew  in  the  regular  way,"  etc.  Who  is  con- 
sidered a  layman  ?  The  school  of  R.  Janai  explained,  one  who  is 
not  experienced  in  gathering  on  the  needle  ;  R.  Jose  bar  Hanina 
said  :  "  One  who  cannot  properly  place  the  foundation  in  the 
border  of  a  garment." 

"  They  may  twine  the  ropes,'  etc.  What  is  the  difference 
between  ''  twining  "  and  "■  tightening  "  ?  When  R.  Dimi  came 
from  Palestine  he  said  :  ''  R.  Hyya  bar  Abba  and  R,  Assi,  both 
in  the  name  of  Hezekiah  and  R.  Johanan,  differ:  One  says 
*'  twining "  means  both  the  shoot  thread  and  the  warp,  and 
"tightening"  means  the  shoot  only;  and  the  other  holds  that 
''  twining  "  means  the  warp  and  not  the  shoot  thread,  and  **  tight- 
ening "  means  "■  if  they  were  not  tight  they  might  be  tightened." 
When  Rabin,  however,  came  from  Palestine,  he  declared  that  as 
to  ''  twining,"  all  agree  that  it  means  the  shoot  thread  and  the 
warp  ;  they  differ  only  as  to  ''  tightening  "  :  one  holds  it  means 
the  shoot  only,  and  the  other  holds  that  if  they  were  not  tight 
they  might  be  tightened. 

MISHNA :  One  may  erect  an  oven  or  a  hearth,  or  a  mill,  on 
the  middle  days.  R.  Jehudah  says  :  "  New  millstones  must  not 
be  chipped." 


i6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  meaning  of  "chipping"?  Said  R. 
Jehudah :  It  means  notching.  R.  Je'hiel  said  :  '*  It  means  the 
boring  of  the  centre-hole  in  the  millstone."  R.  Hama  lectured : 
''  Millstones  may  be  cleaned  during  the  middle  days."  In  the 
name  of  R.  Meir  he  said :  Even  the  hoofs  of  the  horse  and  ass 
may  be  pared,  provided  they  are  used  for  riding  ;  but  not  the 
hoofs  of  an  ass  employed  in  a  treadmill.  R.  Jehudah  permitted 
to  pare  the  hoofs  of  an  ass  employed  in  a  treadmill,  to  place  the 
millstones  in  proper  position,  and  to  build  a  new  mill ;  to  erect 
a  foundation  for  the  millstones,  and  also  to  erect  a  stall.  Rabha 
permitted  to  comb  a  mare,  to  erect  a  stand  and  a  colonnade. 
Rabha  also  permitted  to  let  blood  to  a  domestic  animal  during 
the  middle  days.  Said  Abayi  to  Rabha  :  "  We  found  a  Boraitha 
in  your  support :  '  Blood  may  be  let  to  a  domestic  animal ;  and  no 
restriction  is  made  to  the  administration  of  medicines  to  domestic 
animals  during  the  middle  days.'  "  Rabha  permitted  to  press  gar- 
ments. Why  so  ?  For  the  reason  that  it  can  be  done  by  any 
unskilled  person.  Rabha  said  again  :  "  Trading  even  in  the  most 
moderate  degree  is  not  permitted."  Said  R.  Jose  bar  Abin  : 
''  But  in  case  of  perishable  articles  it  is."  Rabina  was  to  com- 
plete a  transaction  in  which  he  would  have  earned  six  thousand 
Zuz,  and  by  postponing  it  till  after  the  middle  days  he  earned 
twelve  thousand.  Rabina  had  to  collect  some  money  from  the 
inhabitants  of  the  fortress  of  Shnuatha,  and  he  consulted  R.  Ashi 
whether  to  go  there  or  not.  R.  Ashi  told  him :  "  If  you  think 
you  can  find  them  now  and  not  on  other  days,  it  is  as  if  it  were 
perishable  articles  and  you  may  do  it."  We  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha  similar  to  that  just  stated,  in  regard  to  dealings  with 
idolaters :  *'  It  is  permitted  to  attend  markets  of  idolaters  and 
to  purchase  domestic  animals,  male  and  female  slaves,  land 
and  vineyards,  and  to  write  out  the  deeds  and  record  the  same, 
for  it  is  considered  as  if  rescued  from  their  hands."  Rabh 
permitted  Hyya  bar  Ashi  to  construct  a  fisher's  net  on  the 
middle  days.  R.  Jehudah  permitted  Ami,  the  oven-builder,  to 
erect  an  oven,  and  to  Rabba  bar  Eshbi  he  permitted  to  mesh 
a  sieve. 

MISHNA :  A  railing  (balustrade)  may  be  made  round  a  roof, 
or  gallery,  in  the  way  a  layman  does  it,  but  not  in  the  way  it  is 
done  by  a  mechanic.  Rents  (in  the  roofs)  may  also  be  closed,  and 
(then)  smoothed  with  a  roller,  or  with  hand  and  foot,  but  not 
with  a  trowel.  Should  the  hinges  of  the  door-frame,  or  the  beam, 
or  the  lock  (of  the  door),  or  the  key  (thereto)  have  been  broken 


TRACT    MOED    KATAN    (MINOR   FESTIVALS).         17 

they  may  be  repaired  on  the  middle  days,  provided  always  one 
does  not  intentionally  put  off  the  repairs  till  the  middle  days. 
All  (kinds  of)  pickled  food  of  which  one  can  eat  during  the  mid- 
dle days  may  be  pickled. 

GEMARA  :  What  is  meant  "  in  the  way  of  a  layman  "/  Said 
R.  Joseph :  ""  With  twigs  or  wire."  A  Boraitha  states :  When 
the  railing  was  not  smeared  with  clay. 

**  Rents  may  be  closed,''  etc.  If  they  may  be  smoothed  with  a 
roller,  it  is  self-understood  then  that  it  may  be  done  so  with  the 
hand  and  foot  ?  This  should  be  understood  thus :  "  Rents  may 
be  closed  and  smoothed  with  hand  and  foot  as  if  done  with  a 
roller,  but  not  with  a  trowel." 

'*  Should  the  hinges  of  the  door^'  etc.,  "  they  may  be  repaired^' 
etc.  Is  there  not  a  contradiction  from  what  we  have  learned, 
that  *'  up  to  his  days  (of  R.  Jo'hanan,  the  high-priest)  the 
sound  of  the  hammer  (falling  on  the  anvil)  used  to  be  heard 
in  Jerusalem,"  etc.,  from  which  we  see,  only  up  to  his  days, 
but  not  afterwards?  Nay,  this  presents  no  difificulty.  The 
statement  just  quoted  has  reference  to  a  blacksmith's  ham- 
mer, and  that  mentioned  in  our  Mishna  relates  to  that  of  a 
carpenter. 

''All  pickled  food  of  which,''  etc.  The  river  Bditha  of  Libai 
had  an  abundance  of  fish,  and  any  one  who  wanted  to  fish  them 
could  do  so.  Rabha  permitted  to  go  there,  bring  fish  and  salt 
them.  Said  Abayi  to  him  :  "  Does  not  our  Mishna  state,  only 
those  foods  that  can  be  eaten  on  the  middle  days?"  Rabha 
replied  :  These  can  also  be  eaten  by  washing  them  first,  as  it 
happened  once  with  Samuel,  who  was  served  w^ith  (pickled) 
fish,  and  he  ate  them  after  washing  them  sixty  times.  Rabha 
happened  once  to  be  in  the  house  of  the  Exilarch  (on  the 
middle  days),  and  he  was  served  with  pickled  fish  which  were 
washed  sixty  times,  and  he  partook  of  them.  Rabh  was  once 
the  guest  of  R.  Shapir  and  fish  was  served,  one-third  of  which 
was  cooked,  another  third  pickled,  and  the  rest  fried.  Rabh 
related  :  '*  Ada  the  fisher  once  told  me  that  fish  taste  best  some 
time  after  they  are  caught."  Rabh  further  stated  :  ''  The  same 
told  me :  *  Fish  should  be  fried  with  their  brother  (salt — for 
both  are  found  in  water) ;  after  they  are  fried  they  should 
be  placed  with  their  father  (water — which  produces  fish),  and 
they  should  be  eaten  with  their  offspring  (their  juice) ;  and 
after  eating  them,  drink  their  father  (water).'  "  Rabh  said 
again  :  "  Ada  the  fisher  told  me :  *  One  who  eats  fish,  dates, 
2 


i8  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

or  milk  should  not  go  to  sleep  right  after,  unless  he  takes 
first  a  long  walk.'  "  Rabh  said  again :  ''  Ada  the  fisher  told 
me:  'After  eating  fish,  dates,  or  milk,  water  is  to  be  pre- 
ferred as  a  drink  to  beer,  and  beer  should  have  preference 
over  wine.* " 


CHAPTER  II. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  LABOR.  MOURNING  AND  BUYING  AND 
DOING  BUSINESS  IN  THAT  TIME,  AND  ALSO  IN  THE  INTERMEDIATE 
DAYS. 

MISHNA:  One  who  has  turned  his  olives,  and  a  death 
occurred  in  his  family ;  and  one  who  is  prevented  from  at  once 
putting  them  to  press,  or  has  been  disappointed  by  his  laborers, 
may  put  the  first  press-block  on,  and  leave  it  until  after  the  feast- 
Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Jehudah.  R.  Jose,  however,  said  :  *'  He 
may  put  the  olives  into  the  oil-press  and  finish  pressing  them,  and 
bung  up  the  casks  in  the  usual  manner." 

GEMARA  :  It  begins  with  mourning  and  ends  with  the  middle 
days  (without  stating  the  law  relating  to  the  former)  ?  Said  R. 
Shesha,  son  of  R.  Idi :  "  Infer  from  this,  that  things  permitted  on 
the  middle  days  are,  nevertheless,  prohibited  during  mourning." 
R.  Ashi  says  to  the  contrary :  "  Not  only  in  the  mourning  time, 
which  is  only  rabbinical,  are  these  things  allowed,  but  even  on 
the  middle  days,  during  which  work  is  prohibited  biblically,  in 
the  case  of  loss  the  rabbis  permitted  it." 

The  following  Boraitha  Is  in  support  of  the  assertion  of  R. 
Shesha,  son  of  R.  Idi :  The  following  things  are  done  by  others 
for  one  who  is  in  mourning  :  If  his  olives  are  turned,  the  press- 
block  may  be  put  on,  the  cask  bunged,  his  flax  removed  from  the 
buck,  his  wool  taken  out  of  the  boiler,  and  his  land  watered  when 
his  turn  comes  on.  R.  Jehudah  said :  *'  Even  his  ploughed  land 
may  be  sown  and  the  flax-field  planted."  The  sages,  however, 
maintain,  that  if  not  sown  early  in  the  season  it  can  be  done  so 
late  in  the  season  ;  and  if  not  flax,  other  plants  can  be  raised.  R. 
Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  said  that  if  he  is  the  only  special- 
ist in  the  place,  of  all  those  things  mentioned  above,  they  may  be 
done  by  himself  privately.  And  even  more  than  that  the  same 
Rabban  allowed  :  If  he  were  the  only  mechanic  in  the  place  em- 
ployed by  the  public,  or  a  barber,  or  a  bather,  and  the  feast  was 
approaching,  he  might  perform  his  functions.  Contractors  of  all 
kinds  must  have  others  to  do  their  work  (during  their  mourning). 

19 


20  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Those  who  hire  out  asses,  camels,  or  ships  to  others,  must  not  do 
their  work.  But  if  at  the  time  (their  mourning  commences)  they 
were  already  hired  out,  they  might  continue.  A  day  laborer, 
although  in  a  place  where  he  is  not  known,  must  not  work.  If 
he  were  to  work  for  others  in  his  own  house,  whether  under  con- 
tract to  do  it  for  a  definite  time  or  not,  he  must  not  do  it.  If 
others  were  working  for  him  in  his  own  house,  they  must  postpone 
their  work ;  but  in  a  house  other  than  his  own,  they  might  con- 
tinue. Marian,  son  of  Rabhin,  and  Mar,  son  of  A'ha  son  of 
Rabha,  had  a  team  of  oxen  in  copartnership.  One  day  a  death 
occurred  in  the  family  of  Mar  b.  A'ha  and  he  kept  in  his  ox.  Said 
R.  Ashi  :  Why  should  a  great  man  like  Mar  do  such  a  thing?  If 
he  does  not  consider  his  own  loss,  he  must  consider  that  of 
another.  As  stated  above  :  "  If  they  were  hired  out  at  the  time, 
they  might  proceed  with  their  work."  He  (Mar),  however,  was  of 
the  opinion  that  the  case  is  different  when  a  prominent  person  is 
concerned.  Samuel  said  :  "  Those  who  do  their  work  under  con- 
tract for  a  definite  period  of  time,  if  within  the  legal  limits,  may 
not ;  if  outside  those  limits,  they  may  do  it."  R.  Papa,  however, 
said :  Even  where  it  is  outside  the  legal  limits,  the  case  is  only 
when  there  is  no  town  adjacent.  R.  Mesharshia,  however,  said 
that  even  where  there  is  no  town  adjacent  the  case  is  so  only  in 
reference  to  Sabbath  days  and  festivals,  for  on  those  days  people 
are  few ;  but  as  regards  the  middle  days,  during  which  people  are 
numerous,  it  is  not  permitted.  Mar  Zutra,  son  of  R.  Na'hman,  had 
a  house  built  under  contract  outside  of  the  legal  limits.  R.  Saphra 
and  R.  Huna  bar  Hinna  happened  to  be  in  the  neighborhood  of 
that  house  and  declined  to  enter  it  ;  and  according  to  others, 
R.  Zutra  himself  also  declined  to  enter  it.  But  has  not  Samuel 
said  that  if  it  was  outside  of  the  legal  limits  it  is  permitted  ?  R. 
Zutra  himself  assisted  them  in  placing  the  straw  during  the 
progress  of  the  work.  R.  Hama  permitted  the  Abunagars 
(waiters)  of  the  Exilarch  to  do  their  work  on  the  middle 
days ;  for,  he  said,  they  receive  no  salary,  and  work  only  for 
their  board.  (It  is  therefore  not  considered  labor,  and  does 
not  matter.) 

The  rabbis  taught :  Work  may  be  taken  under  contract  dur- 
ing the  middle  days  to  be  done  after  the  feast.  But  on  the 
middle  days  it  is  not  permitted.  The  rule  is  :  All  that  one  him- 
self may  do,  he  may  have  a  Gentile  do  it  for  him,  but  not  what 
he  may  not.  We  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha :  "  Work 
may  be  taken  under  contract  on  the  middle  days  to  be  performed 


TRACT    MOED   KATAN    (MINOR   FESTIVALS).         21 

after  the  feast,  provided  always  he  does  not  measure,  weigh,  or 
count  in  the  usual  manner." 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  No  animals  should  be  copulated  on  the 
middle  days ;  the  same  applies  to  the  firstborn  and  also  to  the 
desecrated  ones  at  any  time." 

The  rabbis  taught :  Cattle  must  not  be  brought  into  the  field 
for  the  purpose  of  manuring,  either  on  Sabbath  days,  feast  days, 
or  middle  days.  But  if  they  come  there  of  themselves  it  is  per- 
mitted. And  no  assistance  may  be  afforded  to  those  in  charge, 
neither  a  watchman  assigned  them  to  watch  their  sheep.  But 
the  case  is  different  if  they  are  hired  by  the  week,  month,  year, 
or  for  a  period  of  seven  years.  Rabbi,  however,  says :  "  On  Sab- 
bath days  it  may  be  done  without  compensation ;  on  feasts  days, 
for  food  only  ;  and  on  the  middle  days,  even  for  compensation." 
Said  R.  Joseph :  "  The  Halakha  prevails  as  Rabbi  decreed." 

MISHNA :  The  same  is  the  case  when  one  whose  wine  is  in 
the  press-pit  and  a  death  occurred  in  his  family  or  another  acci- 
dent happened ;  or  if  he  had  been  disappointed,  he  may  pour  the 
wine  into  casks,  cooper,  and  bung  them  up  in  the  usual  manner. 
Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Jose.  But  R.  Jehudah  said  :  ''  He  must 
only  cover  the  pit  with  boards,  so  that  the  wine  may  not  grow 
sour." 

GEM ARA  :  Said  R.  Itz'hak  bar  Abba :  "  The  Tana  who 
holds  that  on  the  middle  days  it  must  not  be  done  in  the  usual 
manner,  does  not  accord  with  R.  Jose."  Said  R.  Joseph  :  *'  The 
Halakha,  however,  prevails  as  decreed  by  R.  Jose."  A  question 
was  propounded  to  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak :  ''  Is  it  permitted  to 
bung  up  a  beer  barrel  on  the  middle  days  ?  "  He  answered  : 
''  Sinai  (R.  Joseph)  had  already  stated  that  the  Halakha  pre- 
vails as  decreed  by  R.  Jose."  But  R.  Jose's  statement  relates 
only  to  wine,  but  not  to  beer?  What  was  the  reason  for  wine — 
because  there  is  a  great  loss  ?  The  same  is  the  case  with  beer. 
R.  Hama  bar  Guriah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  The  laws 
regarding  the  middle  days  are  distinct  from  each  other  and  can- 
not be  compared  for  the  purpose  of  inference.  As  Samuel 
said  :  "  A  jug  may,  but  a  barrel  may  not  be  covered  with  tar." 
R.  Dimi  of  Nehardea  holds  the  reverse.  The  one  considers  the 
loss  involved ;  the  other,  the  trouble  with  which  it  is  accom- 
panied. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Grinding  is  permitted  on  the  middle  days 
for  use  on  those  days  only,  but  not  otherwise ;  but  if  some  of  the 
flour  remain  till  after  the  festival,  it  may  be  used.     Such  is  also 


2i  1:he  Babylonian  talmud. 

the  case  with  wood-cutting  and  beer-brewing,  but  one  must  not 
go  too  far.  R.  Hananel  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  "  One  may 
fell  a  tree,  even  if  he  needs  only  the  splinters."  Abayi,  however, 
censured  that.  R.  Ashi  owned  a  forest  in  the  neighborhood  of 
Shalnayi,  and  he  went  there  once  during  the  middle  days  to  chop 
wood.  Said  R.  Shela  of  Shalnayi  to  R.  Ashi :  "  You  do  this, 
relying  on  the  statement  of  R.  Hananel  in  the  name  of  Rabh  ? 
But  has  not  Abayi  censured  it  ?  "  And  he  replied  :  *'  I  do  not 
care  for  that."  When  he  commenced  to  chop,  his  axe  slipped 
off  the  handle  and  almost  injured  his  shoulder.  He  thereupon 
left  the  forest  (for  he  took  it  as  a  punishment  for  his  statement 
in  reference  to  Abayi).  R.  Jehudah  permitted  to  pluck  flax, 
hops,  and  poppy.  Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph  :  ''  This  would  be 
correct  as  regards  flax  and  hops,  for  the  one  may  be  used  for 
covering  (figs,  etc.),  and  the  other  in  beer-brewing ;  but  what  use 
can  be  made  of  poppy  ?  Its  seed  can  be  used.  R.  Janai  owned 
an  orchard  the  fruit  of  which  got  ripe  on  the  middle  days,  and  he 
gathered  in  the  fruit ;  on  the  following  year  every  one  postponed 
the  gathering  in  of  his  fruit  until  the  middle  days.  R.  Janai  (as 
a  punishment  to  himself  for  having  caused  others  to  postpone 
their  work  until  the  middle  days)  gave  away  on  the  very  same 
year  that  orchard  to  the  free  use  of  the  public. 

MISHNA:  One  may  house  his  fruit  from  (dread  of)  thieves, 
and  take  flax  out  of  the  buck,  that  it  be  not  spoiled,  provided 
he  does  not  intentionally  defer  doing  it  till  the  middle  days ;  but 
should  he  have  so  deferred,  then  in  all  these  cases  he  forfeits  the 
articles  in  question. 

GEMARA :  A  Boraitha  states :  ''  Provided  he  does  it  pri- 
vately." R.  Joseph  had  removed  beams  to  his  house  in  the  day- 
time. Said  Abayi  to  him  :  ''  Have  we  not  learned  that  it  should 
be  done  privately?"  He  answered:  *' In  this  case  it  may  be 
considered  more  privately  in  the  day-time  than  in  the  night-time ; 
for  in  the  night-time  it  must  be  done  by  light,  and  it  requires 
therefore  more  men." 

"And  take  the  flax  out  of  the  buck,''  etc.  R.  Jeremiah  pro- 
pounded the  question  to  R.  Zera :  "  One  who  deferred  intention- 
ally doing  it  until  the  middle  days  and  soon  afterwards  died,  shall 
we  impose  the  fine  on  his  sons  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  the  rabbis 
intended  to  punish  him  personally,  and,  therefore,  his  sons  are 
released  ?  or  shall  we  assume  that  the  fine  was  directed  against 
his  property,  and,  therefore,  his  sons  must  pay  it  ?  "  And  he 
answered  :    *'  This  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Mishna :  A 


TRACT    MOED    KATAN    (MINOR    FESTIVALS).         23 

field  which  has  been  cleaned  from  prickles  during  the  Sabbatical 
year  may  be  sown  immediately  thereafter ;  but  this  is  not  the 
case  if  it  was  manured  either  by  man's  labor  or  by  animals."  Said 
R.  Jose  bar  Hanina :  "  There  is  a  tradition  that  if  one  had 
manured  his  field  (on  the  Sabbatical  year)  and  soon  afterwards 
died,  his  son  might  sow  it."  Hence  we  see  that  the  fine  was 
directed  against  him,  and  not  against  his  son.  The  same  is  the 
case  with  working  on  the  middle  days,  stated  above. 

MISHNA:  One  must  not  purchase  houses,  slaves,  or  cattle, 
excepting  for  the  use  of  the  whole  festival,  or  for  the  use  of  the 
vendor,  who  otherwise  might  have  nothing  to  eat. 

GEMARA :  Rabha  asked  R.  Na'hman  :  ''  What  is  the  law  if 
a  laborer  has  nothing  to  eat  ?  "  And  he  answered  him  :  "  This 
we  have  learned  in  our  own  Mishna,  *  or  for  the  use  of  the  ven- 
dor,' which  intends  to  include  the  case  of  the  laborer."  (For  the 
case  of  the  vendor  is  included  in  the  statement,  "  for  the  use  of 
the  w/tole  festival,"  which  includes  the  middle  days.)  Rejoined 
Rabha :  Perhaps  the  Mishna  explains  only  what  is  meant  by  the 
expression  "  use  of  the  vendor." 

MISHNA:  One  must  not  remove  things  from  one  house  to 
another,  but  this  may  be  done  from  the  house  of  another  court 
to  his  court.  Things  must  not  be  brought  home  from  the  me- 
chanic's house,  but  if  he  fears  (that  they  might  be  lost)  he  may 
remove  them  to  another  court. 

GEMARA  :  Did  not  the  Mishna  begin  with  the  statement 
that  it  must  not  be  removed  at  all  ?  Said  Abayi :  The  last 
clause  of  the  Mishna  means  to  say,  that  it  may  be  removed  from 
the  court-house  to  the  court  (but  not  to  another  house). 

MISHNA:  Dried  figs  may  be  covered  with  straw.  R.  Jehu- 
dah  says :  "  They  may,  likewise,  be  put  in  layers.  Dealers  in 
fruit,  garments,  or  utensils  may  privately  sell  what  is  required 
for  use  on  the  middle  days.  Huntsmen  (fishers)  and  manufac- 
turers of  peeled  barley  and  grits  may  carry  on  their  occupations 
in  private,  as  the  exigencies  of  the  festival  may  require  it."  R. 
Jose  said  :  ''  They  have  of  their  own  accord  adopted  the  more 
rigorous  observance  and  do  not  carry  on  their  occupations  (on 
the  middle  days)." 

GEMARA  :  R.  Hyya  bar  Abba  and  R.  Assi,  both  in  the  name 
of  Hezekiah  and  R.  Johanan,  differ.  One  holds  that  "  covering," 
mentioned  in  the  Mishna,  means  "  thinly  covering,"  and  ''  put  in 
layers  "  means  ''  thickly  covering  "  ;  and  the  other  one  holds  that 
''covering  "  means  both  thinly  and  thickly  covering,  and  ''put  in 


24  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

layers "  means  ''  heaping  up."  So  also  we  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha :  "  Putting  in  layers — placing  in  a  heap.  Such  is  the 
dictum  of  R.  Jehudah." 

"  T/ie  dealers  in  fruit,''  etc.  The  schoolmen  propounded  a 
question :  "  Does  it  mean  that  they  adopted  a  rigorous,  etc.,  not 
to  do  any  work  at  all,  or  only  not  in  public  ?  "  Come  and  hear  : 
The  dealers  in  fruit,  garments,  and  utensils  may  sell  in  private, 
tor  use  on  the  middle  days.  R.  Jose  said :  *'  The  dealers  of 
Tiberias  adopted  of  their  own  accord  a  more  rigorous  observance 
and  did  not  sell  at  all."  (The  Boraitha  states  further  on  that  R. 
Jose  said  that  the  same  was  the  case  with  the  hunters  and  fishers 
of  Achu  and  the  manufacturers  of  grits  of  Sepphoris.)  Abayi 
said :  **  It  is  called  grits,  if  it  (the  kernel)  is  crushed  into  two ; 
pearl  grits,  if  into  three  ;  and  meal,  if  crushed  into  four  parts." 
When  R.  Dimi  came  he  said  :  "■  It  (grits)  means  spelt."  R.  Huna 
permitted  the  dealers  in  spices  to  trade  in  their  usual  way.  R. 
Kahana  objected  :  We  have  learned  elsewhere  :  A  store  opening 
into  a  gallery  may  be  locked  and  unlocked  in  the  usual  way,  but 
if  it  opens  into  a  public  street  he  must  open  one  door  and  lock 
the  other ;  and  on  the  eve  of  the  last  day  of  Tabernacles  one  may 
decorate  his  stores  with  fruit  in  honor  of  the  last  day  of  the  fes- 
tival. But  not  otherwise  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty  :  the  one 
is  the  case  regarding  fruit ;  the  other,  regarding  spices  (which 
may  be  done  in  the  usual  way). 


CHAPTER  III. 

REGULATIONS     REGARDING      MOURNING     ON      FESTIVALS,     REGARDING 
THOSE    WHO    ARE    UNDER    THE    BAN,  AND    WASHING. 

MISHNA:  The  following  may  shave  (trim  their  hair)  on  the 
middle  days :  One  who  arrives  from  the  sea  countries,  or  returns 
from  captivity,  or  has  been  discharged  from  prison ;  or  one  who 
was  absolved  by  the  sages  from  the  ban,  or  from  his  vow  (not  to 
cut  his  hair  for  a  certain  period  of  time) ;  also  a  Nazarite  and  the 
leper  who  is  restored  to  cleanness.  The  following  may  wash 
their  garments  on  the  middle  days  :  One  who  arrives  from  the 
sea  countries,  or  returns  from  captivity,  or  has  been  discharged 
from  prison ;  and  one  whom  the  sages  have  absolved  from  the 
ban,  or  from  his  vow.  Towels,  barbers'  napkins,  and  bathing 
towels  (may  be  washed).  Men  and  women  who  have  had  a  run- 
ning issue,  women  after  their  courses  or  lying-in,  and  all  persons 
who  from  uncleanness  are  restored  to  cleanness,  are  permitted  to 
wash  their  garments ;  but  all  other  persons  are  forbidden. 

GEMARA :  What  is  the  reason  for  not  permitting  other  per- 
sons ?  As  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Mishna  (Taanith) : 
"  The  priests  of  the  weekly  watch  and  the  standing  Israelites  are 
prohibited  from  shaving  their  beards  and  washing  their  clothes ; 
but  on  Thursday  they  are  allowed  to  do  so  in  honor  of  the 
Sabbath."  And  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar 
said :  "  The  reason  why  they  are  prohibited  to  do  so  the  whole 
week  is  in  order  that  they  shall  not  enter  upon  the  fulfilment  of 
their  duties  when  they  are  filthy  (if  they  would  be  allowed  to  do 
so  during  the  days  of  their  duty)."  The  same  reason  applies  to 
the  festival  (if  they  will  be  allowed  to  do  so  in  the  middle  days 
they  will  not  shave  themselves  before  the  festival). 

*'  Who  arrive  from  the  sea  countries y  Our  Mishna  is  not  in 
accordance  with  R.  Jehudah  of  the  following  Boraitha :  R. 
Jehudah  said :  *'  One  who  returns  from  the  sea  countries  may 
not  shave,  for  he  went  to  sea  of  his  own  accord."  Said  Rabha : 
**  If  he  went  to  sea  for  adventurous  purposes,  all  agree  that  he 
may  not ;  if  to  earn  his  bread,  all  agree  that  he  may.     They  only 


26  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

differ  in  case  he  went  to  sea  to  accumulate  profits  {i.e.,  one  who 
was  well  provided  with  an  income,  but  went  to  sea  to  increase  his 
riches).  One  equals  it  to  the  case  of  adventurous  purpose ;  and 
the  other,  to  that  for  the  purpose  of  earning  his  bread.  Samuel 
said  :  ''  A  minor  (child)  may  be  shaved  on  the  middle  days,  and 
it  makes  no  difference  whether  he  was  born  on  or  before  the 
middle  days."  Said  R.  Pin'has :  "  We  also  have  a  Mishna  to  the 
same  effect :  All  those  who  were  permitted  to  shave  on  the  middle 
days  may  also  do  so  during  their  mourning."  From  this  we  must 
assume  that  those  prohibited  to  shave  on  the  middle  days  are 
also  prohibited  from  doing  so  during  their  mourning?  Now,  if  a 
minor  would  be  prohibited,  then  mourning  would  be  customary 
to  a  minor  also,  but  the  following  Boraitha  states  :  "  The  garments 
of  a  minor  mourner  are  rent  for  the  purpose  of  moving  others  to 
mourn  ?  "  Hence  we  see  that  to  a  minor  himself  mourning  is  not 
customary  ?  Said  R.  Ashi :  Does,  then,  the  Mishna  state  ''  those 
who  are  prohibited  "  ?  (It  only  states  ''  those  who  are  allowed  ") 
and  possibly  some  are  prohibited  who  are  not  mentioned  in  the 
Mishna. 

A  mourner  must  not  observe  mourning  on  festivals,  for  it  is 
written  [Deut.  xvi.  14]  :  "  And  thou  shalt  rejoice  on  thy  feast." 
Then,  if  the  mourning  commences  before  the  festival  the  positive 
commandment  of  the  rejoicing  of  the  feast  which  relates  to  the 
whole  public  is  relieving  from  the  positive  commandment  of 
mourning  of  an  individual ;  and  in  case  it  began  on  the  festival, 
the  commandment  of  mourning  to  an  individual  cannot  relieve 
from  the  commandment  (of  rejoicing)  to  the  public.  What  is  the 
law  of  one  who  is  under  the  ban  as  regards  the  festival?  Said 
R.  Joseph:  Come  and  hear:  **  Cases  involving  capital  punish- 
ment or  stripes,  or  civil  cases,  may  be  tried  (on  the  middle  days), 
and  if  one  (of  the  parties)  is  in  contempt  he  may  be  put  under  the 
ban."  Now  then,  if  you  should  think  that  if  one  who  was  already 
under  the  ban  the  festival  comes  and  postpones  it,  how  could  we 
put  one  under  the  ban  originally  on  the  festival  ?  Said  Abayi 
to  him  :  "■  Perhaps  the  Boraitha  meant,  by  '  tried,'  the  examina- 
tion only  (but  not  the  result)  ?  "  Therefore  said  Abayi :  This 
can  be  decided  from  our  Mishna,  which  states  :  *'  One  whom  the 
sages  absolved  from  the  ban."  And  if  the  festival  would  post- 
pone it,  why  then  the  absolving  by  the  sages  ? 

Said  Rabha :  Does,  then,  the  Mishna  state  :  The  sages  have 
absolved  the  ban  ?  It  states  :  ^'  Who  was  absolved  by  the  sages 
from  the  ban,"  which  means  that  he  has  previously  arrived  at  an 


TRACT   MOED   KATAN   (MINOR   FESTIVALS).         27 

understanding  with  his  opponent  and  then  come  to  ask  the  rab- 
bis that  they  should  absolve  him.  (Hence  the  question  remains 
undecided.) 

Is  the  law  of  leprosy  customary  on  the  festival  ?  Said  Rabha  : 
Come  and  hear :  It  is  written  [Lev.  xiii.  45]  :  *'  And  the  leper." 
That  means  to  include  even  if  it  was  the  high-priest.  Now,  it  is 
certain  that  as  to  the  high-priest  all  the  week-days  are  considered 
feast-days,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Mishna  (Sebo'him) :  ''  The 
high-priest  may  sacrifice  in  his  mourning  before  the  interment  of 
the  corpse,  but  not  to  eat  of  it."  Infer  from  this  that  the  law  of 
leprosy  is  customary  on  festivals.  * 

Rabha  said :  Whence  do  we  know  that  the  court  has  power 
to  summon  one  to  appear  before  them  ;  to  appoint  a  time  for  the 
trial  before  the  chief  of  the  court;  and  to  fix  a  time  for  the 
appearance  of  both  parties?  It  is  written  [Num.  xvi.  12-16]: 
*'  And  Moses  sent  to  call  Dathan  and  Abiram,  the  sons  of  Eliab," 
etc,  "  And  Moses  said  unto  Korah,  thou  and  thy  company  be 
ye  before  the  Lord,"  etc.  "  Thou  and  they  and  Aaron  to-mor- 
row." And  whence  do  we  know  that  the  court  has  power  to 
postpone  the  trial  to  another  day?  It  is  written  [Jerem.  xlvi.  17]  : 
"  They  called  out  there,"  etc.,  "  he  hath  let  the  time  appointed 
pass  by."  And  whence  do  we  know  that  the  report  of  the  court 
messenger,  that  the  summons  is  disobeyed,  is  not  considered 
slander  ?  From  the  report  of  the  messengers  to  Moses  [Num.  xvi. 
14].  And  whence  do  we  know  that  a  great  man  has  the  power 
to  put  one  under  the  ban?  From  [Judges,  v.  23]  :  "Curse  ye 
Meroz,  said  the  messenger  of  the  Lord."  [It  means  that  he  was 
a  great  man.]  And  whence  do  we  know  that  the  court  has  power 
to  excommunicate  him  and  to  prohibit  to  eat  or  drink  in  his  com- 
pany, or  to  stand  near  him  within  a  distance  of  four  ells  ?  From 
the  passage  [ibid.,  ibid.]  :  "  Curse  ye  bitterly,  curse  its  inhabi- 
tants." And  whence,  that  his  disobedience  is  made  public? 
From  [ibid.,  ibid.]  :  *'  Because  they  came  not  to  the  help  of  the 
Lord."  And  whence,  that  his  property  may  be  confiscated 
(made  ownerless)  ?  From  [Ezra,  x.  8]  :  *'  And  that  whosoever 
should  not  come  within  three  days,"  etc.,  "  all  his  substance 
should  be  forfeited  f   and  himself  separated  from  the  congrega- 


*  AH  the  laws  of  mourning  not  belonging  to  festivals  we  transfer  to  Tract  Ebel 
Rabbathi  (Great  Mourning)  as  the  proper  place,  and  they  will  be  published  in  the 
next  volume,  which  will  complete  this  section, 
f  Leeser  translates  "  devoted." 


28  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

tion  of  the  exiles."  Whence,  that  he  may  be  cursed,  beaten, 
his  hair  plucked,  and  made  to  swear?  From  [Nehem.  xiii.  25]: 
''  And  I  contended  with  them,  and  cursed  them,  and  smote  cer- 
tain of  them,  and  plucked  out  their  hair,  and  made  them  swear," 
etc.  Whence,  that  his  hands  and  feet  may  be  bound,  and  he  may 
be  tied  to  the  whipping  post,  and  prosecuted  ?  From  [Ezra,  vii. 
26]  :  "  Whether  it  be  unto  death,  or  to  banishment,  or  to  a  fine 
on  goods,  or  to  imprisonment."  What  is  meant  by  *'  banish- 
ment "?  Said  Ada  Mari  in  the  name  of  Ne'hemiah  bar  Baruch 
in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  bar  Abin,  quoting  R.  Jehudah:  "It 
means,  prosecution."  What  kind  of  prosecution  ?  Said  R. 
Jehudah,  son  of  R.  Samuel  bar  Shilath,  in  the  name  of  Rabh : 
**  It  means  that  he  is  put  under  the  ban  at  once,  and  if  he  does 
not  repent  within  thirty  days  the  ban  is  continued  ;  and  if  he  still 
continues  to  be  disobedient,  he  is  excommunicated  after  the 
lapse  of  sixty  days."  Said  R.  Huna  bar  Hinna  to  him  :  "  But 
has  not  R.  Hisda  stated :  He  is  first  warned  on  a  Monday, 
Thursday,  and  the  following  Monday"?  This  relates  only  to 
cases  involving  money  ;  but  if  he  is  accused  of  having  denounced 
the  authorities,  he  is  at  once  put  under  the  ban.  A  certain  butcher 
was  disobedient  to  R.  Tubi  bar  Mathna,  and  he  was  put  under 
the  ban  by  the  concurrence  of  Abayi  and  Rabha.  Subsequently 
he  came  to  an  understanding  with  his  opponent.  Said  Abayi : 
"  What  shall  be  done  in  such  a  case  ?  Shall  we  absolve  him  ? 
Thirty  days  have  not  passed  yet  ?  Shall  we  not  ?  The  rabbis 
need  him  ?  "  And  he  turned  to  R.  Idi  bar  Abin  and  asked  him : 
"  Do  you  know  anything  about  such  a  case  ?  "  And  the  latter 
answered  him  :  "  R.  Ta'hlipha  bar  Abimi  said  in  the  name  of 
Samuel :  '  The  horn  that  announced  that  he  was  placed  under  the 
ban,  may  announce  that  he  was  absolved.' "  And  Abayi  re- 
joined :  "  This  is  only  in  cases  involving  money ;  but  in  the  case 
of  denouncing  the  authorities,  the  ban  must  continue  for  thirty 
days."  Ameimar  said  :  "  The  Halakha  prevails,  that  if  scholars 
declare  the  ban  over  a  person,  he  may  be  absolved  therefrom  by 
three  other  scholars."  Said  R.  Ashi  to  Ameimar :  Have  we 
not  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  said  :  If  one  of 
the  scholars  who  declared  the  ban  over  a  person  died,  his  part 
cannot  be  absolved  from  ?  Shall  we  not  assume  that  it  cannot  be 
absolved  from  at  all  ?  Nay ;  that  means,  only  until  other  three 
absolve  him. 

The  rabbis  taught :    The  ban   is  declared   for  not  less  than 
thirty   days ;  rebuke,  however,   is  only   for  seven  days ;  and   al- 


TRACT    MOED    KATAN    (MINOR    FESTIVALS).         29 

though  there  is  no  expHcit  proof  for  that,  there  is  a  hint  [Num. 
xii.  14]  :  ''  If  her  father  had  spit  in  her  face,  would  she  not 
be  ashamed  seven  days?"  R.  Hisda  said:  "Our  (Babylonian) 
ban  equals  in  point  of  time  their  (Palestinian)  rebuke ;  and  their 
rebuke  is  only  for  seven  days."  Is  that  so  ?  Has  it  not  happened 
that  R.  Simeon  bar  Rabbi  and  Bar  Qappara  have  been  studying 
together,  and  they  came  across  a  difficult  question  ?  Said  R. 
Simeon  to  Bar  Qappara :  "  This  question  must  be  solved  by 
Rabbi  (my  father)."  And  Bar  Qappara  answered  him  :  "  What 
could  Rabbi  say  to  this?"*  R.  Simeon  reported  this  statement 
to  his  father,  and  he  became  angry.  Subsequently  Bar  Qappara 
came  to  visit  him,  and  Rabbi  said  to  him  :  "  Bar  Qappara,  I  have 
never  known  thee."  Bar  Qappara  understood  this  reproach,  and 
he  reprimanded  himself  for  thirty  days  ?  It  also  happened  that 
Rabbi  ordered  not  to  teach  disciples  in  the  public  streets.  R. 
Hyya  disregarded  the  order,  and  did  teach  his  two  nephews, 
Rabh  and  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana,  in  a  public  street.  When  Rabbi 
heard  of  it,  he  was  angry.  Subsequently  R.  Hyya  came  to  visit 
him,  and  Rabbi  said  to  him  :  "  Eyya,  you  are  wanted  in  the 
street."  R.  Hyya  understood  what  was  hinted  at,  and  he  repri- 
manded himself  for  thirty  days. 

[On  the  thirtieth  day  Rabbi  sent  a  message  to  him  to  come ; 
and  a  short  while  after  he  sent  him  another  message  not  to  come. 
Subsequently  R.  Hyya  came.  Said  Rabbi  to  him  :  '*  Why  didst 
thou  come  ?  "  He  answered  :  "  Because  the  Master  sent  for  me 
to  come."  Said  Rabbi :  *'  But  did  I  not  subsequently  send  thee 
not  to  come?"  And  he  replied:  "The  first  message  I  received, 
the  second  one  I  did  not."  And  Rabbi  applied  to  him  the  follow- 
ing passage  [Proverbs,  xvi.  7]  :  "  When  the  Lord  receiveth  in 
favor  a  man's  ways,  he  maketh  even  his  enemies  to  be  at  peace 
with  him."]  Hence  we  see  from  this  that  the  rebuke  of  the  Pales- 
tinians is  for  thirty  days  ?     The  rebuke  of  a  prince  is  different. 

For  how  long,  however,  is  our  rebuke  ?  For  one  day  only,  as 
seen  from  the  following :  Samuel  and  Mar  Uqba,  studying  to- 
gether, the  latter  used  to  sit  (out  of  respect  to  Samuel)  four  ells 
distant  from  the  former  ;  but  when  sitting  as  a  court,  the  reverse 
used  to  be  the  case,  and  Mar  Uqba  used  to  sit  on  a  low  platform 
(near  the  candelabrum  f )  in  order  that  his  voice  might  be  heard 


*  Rashi  explains  this  to  mean:   "There  is  no  scholar  who  could  answer  this." 
But  our  explanation  seems  to  us  more  proper. 
f  For  Mar  Uqba  v.-as  an  Exilarch, 


30  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

well.  Mar  Uqba  was  in  the  habit  of  accompanying  Samuel  every 
day  to  his  residence.  One  day  he  was  so  engrossed  in  a  case  that 
he  forgot  to  do  it,  and  the  latter,  instead,  followed  him  to  his 
house.  When  they  reached  the  house,  Samuel  said  to  him  :  "  Is 
this  sufficient  for  thee?  May  I  now  return?"  And  Mar  Uqba 
understood  that  Samuel  was  angry,  and  he  reprimanded  himself 
for  one  day.  There  was  a  woman  who  was  sitting  in  a  pathway, 
and  was  in  the  habit  of  stretching  out  her  foot  to  pick  up  the 
barley.  A  young  scholar  happened  to  pass  by  and  she  paid  no 
attention  to  him,  and  he  remarked :  *'  How  insolent  this  woman 
is ! "  The  woman  came  before  R.  Na'hman  and  he  asked  her : 
"  Did  he  utter  the  ban  ?  "  And  she  answered  :  "  Nay."  He  then 
ordered  her  to  be  reprimanded  for  one  day.  Zutra  bar  Tubiah 
was  once  arranging  biblical  passages  before  R.  Jehudah.  When 
he  came  upon  the  passage  [II  Sam.  xxiii.  i]  :  '^  And  these  are  the 
last  words  of  David,"  he  said  to  him :  ''  If  these  were  the  last, 
what  were  the  first  words  of  David  ? "  R.  Jehudah  remained 
silent.  But  when  he  (Mar  Zutra)  repeated  the  question,  R. 
Jehudah  said :  "  Art  thou  of  the  opinion  that  if  one  cannot  ex- 
plain this  he  is  no  more  a  great  man  ?  "  And  Mar  Zutra  under- 
stood that  R.  Jehudah  was  angry,  and  he  reprimanded  himself 
for  one  day.  How  is  this  passage,  however,  to  be  explained  ?  It 
plainly  reads  "•  the  last " ;  then  there  must  be  the  first  words  ? 
[Ibid.  xxi.  i]  :  "  And  David  spoke  unto  the  Lord  the  words  of 
this  song,  on  the  day  that  the  Lord  had  delivered  him  out  of  the 
hand  of  all  his  enemies,  and  out  of  the  hand  of  Saul."  This 
passage  was  expounded  thus  :  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  said 
unto  David  :  '^  David,  thou  singest  songs  over  the  downfall  of 
Saul ;  if  thou  wert  Saul  and  he  were  David,  I  would  annihilate 
many  a  David  for  his  sake."  And  this  is  meant  by  [Psalms,  vii. 
i]  :  ''A  Shiggayon  of  David  "*  which  he  sang  unto  the  Lord,  con- 
cerning the  affairs  of  Cush  (the  Ethiopian)  the  Benjamite."  Was 
then  his  name  Cush  ?  It  was  Saul,  but  as  an  Ethiopian  is  dis- 
tinguished from  others  by  the  color  of  his  skin,  so  was  Saul  dis- 
tinguished from  others  by  his  good  deeds.  Likewise  [Num.  xii. 
i]  :  "•  On  account  of  the  Ethiopian  woman  which  he  had  married." 
Was  then  her  name  Ethiopian  ?  Was  it  then  not  Ziporah  ?  But 
it  is  to  state,  that  as  an  Ethiopian  is  distinguished  by  the  color  of 
his  skin,  so  was  she  distinguished  by  her  kind  deeds.  Likewise 
[Jerem.  xxxviii.  7] :  "  Now  when  the  slave  of  the  king,  the  Ethio- 

*  The  root  of  Shiggayon  is  n^5J>,  meaning  "  error.'' 


TRACT    MOED   KATaN    (MINOR   FESTIVALS).         31 

pian,"  etc.  Was  then  his  name  Ethiopian  ?  ^  Was  it  then  not  Zede- 
kiah  ?  But  as  it  is  stated  above.  Likewise  [Amos,  ix.  7]  :  "  Are 
ye  not  hke  the  children  of  the  Ethiopians,  O  children  of  Israel?  " 
Was  then  their  name  Ethiopians  ?  Was  it  then  not  '*  Israel  "  ? 
But  as  the  Ethiopians  differ  from  others  in  the  color  of  their 
skin,  so  does  Israel  differ  from  all  idolaters  by  their  good  deeds. 
R.  Tan'hum  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Huna,  and  according  to 
others  R.  Huna  himself  said  it:  A  disciple  who  put  one  under 
the  ban  for  disobedience  to  himself,  the  ban  is  valid,  as  we  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  One  who  is  put  under  the  ban  by  the 
Master  is  considered  so  also  towards  the  disciple;  but  if  put  by 
a  disciple,  is  not  so  towards  the  Master."  Hence  towards  the 
Master  he  is  not  so,  but  as  towards  the  general  public  he  is  so. 
Now,  then,  let  us  see:  To  what  case  is  this  applicable  ?  Shall 
we  assume  that  it  applies  to  Heavenly  things  ?  Is  it  not  written 
[Psalms,  xxi.  30] :  "  There  is  no  wisdom  nor  understanding  nor 
counsel  against  the  Lord''  f  Hence  it  must  be  assumed,  even  for 
the  disobedience  to  himself.  R.  Joseph  said:  "  Even  a  young 
scholar,  if  only  he  is  certain  that  his  demand  against  another  is 
just,  may  render  judgment  in  his  own  favor."  There  was  one 
young  scholar  concerning  whom  evil  rumors  were  current.  Said 
R.  Jehudah:  "  What  shall  be  done  in  this  case  ?  Shall  we  put 
him  under  the  ban  ?  The  rabbis  need  him.  Shall  we  not  ? 
The  name  of  Heaven  will  be  profaned."  And  he  asked  Rabba 
bar  bar  Hana:  "Do  you  know  anything  about  such  a  case  ? " 
He  answered  him:  So  said  R.  Johanan:  "  It  is  written  [Mal- 
achi,  ii.  7]:  *  The  priest's  lips  are  ever  to  keep  knowledge,  and 
the  law  are  they  to  seek  from  his  mouth,  for  he  is  the  mes- 
senger f  of  the  Lord  of  hosts.'  That  means:  If  the  Master  is 
equal  to  an  angel,  law  may  be  sought  from  his  mouth,  but  not 
otherwise."  Thereupon  R.  Jehudah  put  him  under  the  ban. 
Subsequently,  R.  Jehudah  was  taken  ill  and  the  rabbis  made  him 
a  sick-call,  among  whom  was  also  that  young  scholar.  When 
R.  Jehudah  beheld  him,  he  smiled.  Said  he  to  R.  Jehudah: 
"  Is  it  not  enough  that  you  put  me  under  the  ban,  that  you  still 
laugh  at  me?"  R.  Jehudah  answered  him:  "  I  do  not  laugh 
at  you,  but  in  the  world  to  come  I  will  be  proud  to  say  that  I 
was  not  biased  even  towards  so  great  a  man  as  you." 


*  The  Talmud  translates  the  meaning  of  the  words  literally.      Hence  our  transla- 
tion. 

f  The  text  reads  "  Malach,"  which  means  a  messenger,  and  also  an  angel. 


32  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

When  R.  Jehudah  died  the  young  scholar  came  to  the  col- 
lege and  asked  to  be  absolved  from  the  ban,  and  the  rabbis 
answered  him:  "  There  is  not  here  a  man  equal  in  esteem  to 
R.  Jehudah  to  absolve  you.  Go  to  R.  Jehudah  the  Second, 
and  he  may  absolve  you."  He  went  to  him.  Said  the  Nasi  to 
R.  Ami:  "  Go  and  examine  his  case,  and  if  found  favorable, 
absolve  him."  R.  Ami  did  so,  and  was  about  to  absolve  him 
when  R.  Samuel  bar  Na'hmeni  arose  and  said:  "  Even  when 
the  maid-servant  of  the  house  of  Rabbi  declared  one  under  the 
ban  the  sages  did  respect  it  for  three  years,  and  so  much  the 
more  we  must  respect  Jehudah  our  colleague."  Said  R.  Zera: 
"  How  did  it  happen  that  this  old  man  came  to-day  to  college 
after  an  absence  of  several  years  ?  It  is  a  token  that  the  young 
scholar  is  not  to  be  absolved."  He  left  weeping,  and  on  the 
way  he  was  stung  by  a  bee  and  he  died.  He  was  brought  to 
the  vaults  of  the  Pious,  and  was  not  accepted ;  he  was  then 
removed  to  those  of  the  Judges,  and  was  accepted.  Why  so  ? 
For  he  acted  as  R.  Ilai  of  the  following  Boraitha:  "  If  one  can- 
not withstand  the  temptation,  he  shall  go  to  a  place  where  he  is 
not  known,  and  shall  dress  in  black  and  wrap  himself  in  black 
and  do  as  he  pleases,  but  shall  not  profane  the  name  of  Heaven 
openly." 

What  was  the  occurrence  with  the  maid-servant  of  the  house 
of  Rabbi  ?  The  maid-servant  of  the  house  of  Rabbi  saw  once 
one  beating  his  grown-up  son,  and  she  said:  **  Let  that  man  be 
under  the  ban,  for  he  has  transgressed  the  commandment  [Lev. 
xix.  14] :  *  Thou  shalt  not  put  a  stumbling-block  before  the 
blind.*  "  And  the  following  Boraitha  states  that  this  passage 
relates  to  one  who  beats  his  grown-up  son.  Resh  Lakish  was 
watching  an  orchard,  and  there  came  a  certain  man  and  ate  of 
the  figs.  Resh  Lakish  shouted  to  him  not  to  do  it,  but  he  paid 
no  attention  to  him.  Resh  Lakish  then  said:  "Let  this  man 
be  under  the  ban."  And  the  man  answered  him:  "On  the 
contrary,  let  t/iat  man  be  under  the  ban ;  for  if  I  am  responsible 
to  thee  in  damages,  am  I  then  liable  to  be  put  under  the  ban  ? " 
When  Resh  Lakish  came  to  the  college,  he  was  told:  "  His 
placing  you  under  the  ban  is  valid,  but  not  yours."  "  How  can 
it  be  corrected  ?"  "Go  and  ask  his  pardon."  "  But  I  do  not 
know  where  to  find  him  ?"  And  he  was  told:  "  You  have  to 
go  to  the  Nasi  in  order  to  be  absolved,  as  we  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha:  *  One  who  was  put  under  the  ban  and  he  does  not  know 
the  person,  he  must  go  to  a  Nasi  in  order  to  be  absolved.'  " 


TRACT    MOED    KATAN    (MINOR    FESTIVALS).         s^ 

R.  Huna  said:  It  was  enacted  in  Osha  that  if  the  chief  of 
the  court  should  be  deHnquent,  if  for  the  first  time  he  should 
not  be  put  under  the  ban,  but  should  only  be  told:  "  Be  digni- 
fied and  stay  at  home."  But  if  for  the  second  time,  he  should 
be  put  under  the  ban,  lest  the  name  of  Heaven  be  profaned. 
This  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  following  statement  of  Resh 
Lakish :  A  scholar  who  is  delinquent  is  not  put  under  the  ban 
publicly,  for  it  is  written  [Hosea,  ii.  5]:  "  Therefore  shalt  thou 
stumble  in  the  day-time,  and  the  prophet  also  shall  stumble 
with  thee  in  the  night,"  which  means:  See  that  he  is  devoid  of 
publicity,  as  the  night  is  devoid  of  daylight. 

Mar  Zutra  the  Pious,  when  a  young  scholar  was  delinquent 
and  deserving  to  be  reprimanded,  first  reprimanded  /i im se //  2ind 
then  the  young  scholar.  When  he  entered  his  residence,  he 
first  absolved  himself  and  then  the  young  scholar.  R.  Giddel 
said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  "  A  scholar  may  first  put  himself 
under  the  ban  (for  a  certain  period  of  time)  and  afterward  absolve 
himself  therefrom."  Said  R.  Papa:  "  I  maybe  rewarded;  for, 
as  a  matter  of  fact,  I  have  never  put  a  young  scholar  under  the 
ban." 

''  And  the  Nazarite  and  the  leper,''  etc.  R.  Jeremiah  ques- 
tioned R.  Zera :  ''  Does  it  mean  in  the  case  when  they  had  no 
opportunity  to  do  so  before,  or  even  when  they  had?"  And  he 
answered  him  :  ''  We  have  learned  this  in  the  following  Boraitha  : 
All  those  who  were  said  to  be  permitted  to  shave  on  the  middle 
days,  may  do  so  only  when  they  had  no  opportunity  to  do  it 
before,  but  not  otherwise.  A  Nazarite,  however,  may  do  so, 
although  he  had  the  opportunity  to  do  so  before,  in  order  that 
his  sacrifice  be  not  delayed. 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  All  those  who  were  said  to  be  permitted 
to  shave  on  the  middle  days,  may  also  do  so  in  their  mourning." 
But  have  we  not  learned  in  another  Boraitha  that  they  may  not  ? 
Said  R.  Hisda  in  the  name  of  R.  Shila :  **  The  first  Boraitha 
relates  to  a  case  where  the  mournings  succeeded  one  another." 
If  this  is  the  case,  why  only  "■  those  who  were  said,"  etc.  ?  Why 
not  every  one  ?  As  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  :  "  When  one 
mourning  succeeds  the  other,  and  so  on  for  a  long  time,  and  his 
hair  has  become  heavy,  it  may  be  made  light  by  a  razor,  and  he 
may  wash  his  clothes  in  water  ? "  Yea,  but  as  to  this,  it  was 
taught  that  R.  Hisda  said :  The  Boraitha  means  by  a  razor 
only,  but  not  by  scissors ;  in  water,  but  not  with  Spanish  chalk 
(which  was  used  then  instead  of  soap)  or  lye.  Said  R.  Hisda : 
3 


34  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

*'  From  this  it  may  be  inferred  that  a  mourner  must  not  wash  his 
clothes." 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  As  it  is  not  allowed  to  shave  on  the 
middle  days,  so  also  is  it  not  allowed  to  trim  the  nails.  Such  is 
the  dictum  of  R.  Jehudah.  R.  Jose,  however,  permits  it."  And 
the  same  is  the  case  in  regard  to  mourning.  Said  Ula :  "  The 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah  in  regard  to  mourning, 
and  according  to  R.  Jose  in  regard  to  the  middle  days."  Samuel, 
however,  said  :  "  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jose  in 
regard  to  both  mourning  and  the  middle  days."  As  Samuel  said 
elsewhere :  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  one  who  is 
lenient,  in  regard  to  mourning.  R.  Shaman  bar  Aba  said  :  I  was 
present  once  on  the  middle  days  in  the  college  of  R.  Johanan, 
and  saw  him  trimming  his  nails  with  his  teeth  and  throwing  the 
parings  away.  And  from  the  above  occurrence  three  things 
were  inferred :  that  the  nails  may  be  trimmed  on  the  middle 
days ;  that  there  is  no  aversion  to  trimming  them  with  the  teeth ; 
and  that  the  parings  may  be  thrown  away."^  R.  Itz'hak  bar  Jacob 
bar  Geurah  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  sent  the  following  mes- 
sage :  ''  Flaxen  garments  may  be  washed  on  the  middle  days." 

MISHNA:  The  following  documents  may  be  written  on  the 
middle  days:  contracts  of  betrothing,  bills  of  divorce,  and 
receipts  in  discharge  of  debts;  also  wills  or  codicils;  deeds  of 
gift;  premonitions;  and  deeds  of  maintenance,  certificates  of 
Halitza,  and  certificates  of  refusal;  arbitration  bonds;  decrees 
of  the  Beth  Din;  and  powers  of  attorney. 

GEMARA :  Samuel  said:  "One  is  permitted  to  become 
betrothed  to  a  woman  on  the  middle  days,  for  fear  that  he  may 
be  preceded  by  another  one."  Rabh  said  in  the  name  of  R. 
Reuben  b.  Atztrubli:  It  appears  from  the  Law,  the  Prophets, 
and  the  Hagiographa  that  the  union  of  a  woman  to  her  husband 
comes  from  God  himself.  The  Law  [Gen.  xxiv.  50]:  "Then 
Laban  and  Bethuel  answered  and  said :  The  thing  hath  pro- 
ceeded from  the  Lord,''  etc.;  the  Prophets  [Judges,  xiv.  4]: 
"  But  his  father  and  his  mother  knew  not  that  it  was  from  the 
Lord'' ;  the  Hagiographa  [Prov.  xix.  14] :  "  Houses  and  wealth 
are  an  inheritance  from  fathers;  but  from  the  Lord  cometh  an 
intelligent  wife."  f  Rabh  further  said  in  the  name  of  the  same 
authority ;  and  according  to  others  this  was  learned  in  a  Boraitha : 


*  This  subject  will  be  explained  in  Tract  Niddah. 
f  See  our  "  Maamar  lla'ishuthi,"  Wien,  1887,  p.  6, 


TRACT    MOED   KATAN    (MINOR   FESTIVALS).         ss 

**  R.  Reuben  b.  Atztrubli  said:  *  No  one  is  suspected  of  having 
done  something  (wrong),  unless  he  has  really  done  it;  and  if  he 
has  not  done  it  all,  he  has  done  part  of  it ;  and  if  not  even  that 
much,  he  at  least  had  in  mind  to  do  it;  and  if  not  even  that 
much,  he  probably  approved  of  it  when  it  was  done  by  others.'  " 
An  objection  was  made:  Come  and  hear  [Psalm  cvi.  i6] : 
"  Moreover,  they  envied  Moses  in  the  camp  and  Aaron  the 
holy  one  of  the  Lord."  And  R.  Samuel  bar  Itz'hak  said: 
"  From  this  it  is  inferred  that  every  one  suspected  his  own  wife 
of  having  relations  with  Moses  ? "  (Hence  we  see  that  one  may 
be  suspected  although  there  is  no  particle  of  foundation  for  it  ?) 
In  that  case  it  was  different,  for  it  was  done  out  of  hatred. 
Another  objection  was  made:  Come  and  hear:  R.  Jose  said: 
"  May  my  share  in  the  world  to  come  be  with  those  who  were 
groiindlessly  suspected."  And  R.  Papa  said:  "  I  was  once  sus- 
pected without  any  ground  whatever  ?  "  This  presents  no  diffi- 
culty. The  one  is  the  case  when  the  suspicion  has  ceased;  the 
other  is,  when  it  has  not.  What  is  meant  by  not  having  ceased  ? 
Said  Abayi :  "  My  mother  told  me:  *  A  town  rumor  is  for  a  day 
and  a  half.'  "  The  case  is  only  if  it  has  not  ceased  at  intervals, 
but  if  it  has  it  does  not  matter;  and  if,  however,  it  has  ceased 
out  of  fear,  it  is  not  taken  into  consideration ;  and  even  if  it  was 
not  out  of  fear,  the  case  is  when  it  was  not  circulated  again 
more  vigorously.  All  this,  however,  is  the  case  when  the  person 
suspected  has  no  enemies;  but  if  he  has,  the  latter  circulated  it. 

MISHNA:  Bonds  of  debts  must  not  be  written  on  the  mid- 
dle days;  but  if  the  lender  does  not  otherwise  want  to  trust  the 
borrower,  or  the  latter  has  nothing  to  eat,  they  may  be  written. 
Holy  Scrolls,  Phylacteries,  or  Mezuzoth  must  not  be  written  on 
the  middle  days,  and  not  a  single  letter  may  be  corrrected — 
even  in  the  Book  of  Ezra.*  R.  Jehudah,  however,  says  :  "  One 
may  write  Phylacteries  and  Mezuzoth  for  his  own  use,  and  he 
may  also  spin  sky-blue  wool  for  show-threads  in  his  garment." 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  One  may  write  Phylacteries 
and  Mezuzoth  for  his  own  use  and  may  spin  sky-blue  wool  for 
show-threads  in  his  garment ;  but  for  others  he  may  do  it  as 
a  favor  only  (without    compensation).     Such  is  the    dictum  of 


*  It  means  the  first  Pentateuch  which  Ezra  wrote.  Rashi,  however,  says  that  he 
heard  that  it  should  not  be  read  "  Ezra,"  but  miy,  which  means  the  Temple  ;  as  to  his 
knowledge,  there  was  a  correct  copy  of  the  Holy  Scrolls,  from  which  all  the  others 
were  corrected. 


36  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said:  "  One  may  connive  and 
sell  his  own,  and  then  wTite  another  one  for  his  own  use."  But 
R.  Jose  said:  "  He  may  write  and  sell  in  the  usual  way  as  much 
as  necessary  for  his  living  expenses."  Rabh,  and  according  to 
others  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana,  rendered  his  decision  to  R.  Hana- 
nel:  "  The  Halakha  prevails,  that  one  may  write  and  sell  in  the 
usual  way  as  much  as  necessary  for  his  living  expenses." 

MISHNA:  One  who  buried  his  dead  three  days  before  the 
commencement  of  the  festival  is  freed  from  the  observance  of 
the  seven  (days  of  deep  mourning) ;  if  eight  days  before  the 
festival,  he  is  freed  from  the  observance  of  the  thirty  days;  for 
the  sages  hold:  "  The  Sabbath  enters  into  the  computation,  but 
does  not  supersede  the  mourning,  whereas  the  festivals  super- 
sede the  mourning,  but  do  not  enter  into  the  computation." 
R.  Elazar  said :  "Since  the  destruction  of  the  Temple,  Pente 
cost  is  to  be  considered  (in  respect  to  mourning)  like  the  Sab- 
bath." R.  Gamaliel  said:  "The  New  Year  and  the  Day  of 
Atonement  are  to  be  considered  like  festivals;  the  sages,  how- 
ever, say  that  it  is  neither  as  the  one  nor  as  the  other,  but  hold 
that  there  is  no  distinction  between  the  Pentecost  and  any  other 
festival,  but  the  New  Year  and  the  Day  of  Atonement  are  like 
the  Sabbath." 

GEMARA:  Rabh  said:  "  Only  the  observance  o{  the  thirty 
days  is  dispensed  with,  but  not  the  days  themselves."  So  also 
said  R.  Huna.  R.  Shesheth,  however,  said:  "  Even  the  days 
are  dispensed  with."  In  what  case  may  it  happen  that  the  days 
shall  still  not  be  dispensed  with  ?  If  (the  observance  of  the 
thirty  days  being  dispensed  with)  one  had  not  shaved  himself 
on  the  eve  of  the  festival,  he  may  not  do  so  after  the  festival 
(during  all  the  thirty  days).  We  have  so  also  learned  in  a 
Boraitha:  One  who  buries  his  dead  three  days  before  the 
festival  is  freed  from  the  observance  of  the  seven  days ;  if  eight 
days,  he  is  freed  from  the  observance  of  the  thirty  days,  and  he 
may  shave  himself  on  the  eve  of  the  festival;  if  he,  however, 
failed  to  do  so  on  the  eve  of  the  festival,  he  must  not  do  so 
after  the  festival.  Abba  Saul,  however,  said:  "  He  may  do  so, 
for  as  the  observance  of  the  three  days  frees  from  the  observance 
of  the  seven  days,  so  also  does  the  observance  of  the  seven  days 
free  from  the  observance  of  the  thirty  days."  Seven  days? 
Have  we  not  learned  eight  ?  Abba  Saul  is  of  the  opinion  that  a 
portion  of  a  day  counts  for  a  whole  day,  and  the  seventh  day 
enters  into  the  computation  of  both.      Said   R.   Hisda  in  the 


TRACT    MOED   KATAN   (MINOR   FESTIVALS).         37 

name  of  Rabina  bar  Shila:  "  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to 
Abba  Saul,  and  even  the  sages  concede  to  Abba  Saul  that  in 
case  the  eighth  day  falls  on  a  Sabbath  which  is  incidentally  the 
eve  of  a  festival,  he  may  shave  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath."  Accord- 
ing to  whom  is  the  statement  of  R.  Amram  in  the  name  of 
Rabh:  "  A  mourner,  as  soon  as  his  condolers  have  left  him,  is 
permitted  to  wash  himself"  ?  It  is  according  to  Abba  Saul. 
Said  Abayi:  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  Abba  Saul  in 
regard  to  the  seventh  day;  and  the  sages  concede,  in  regard  to 
the  thirtieth  day,  that  a  portion  of  a  day  counts  for  a  whole 
day.  Rabha  said :  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  Abba 
Saul  regarding  the  thirtieth  day,  but  not  regarding  the  seventh 
day.  But  the  sages  of  Nehardea  maintained  that  the  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  Abba  Saul  in  both  cases,  as  Samuel  said : 
"  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  one  who  is  lenient 
in  regard  to  mourning."  Abayi  inquired  of  Rabba:  "  If  one 
buried  his  dead  on  the  festival,  does,  or  does  not,  the  festival 
enter  into  the  computation  of  the  thirty  days  ?  Certain  it  is  to 
me  that  it  does  not  enter  in  regard  to  the  seven  days,  for  the 
observance  of  the  seven  is  not  customary  on  the  festival ;  but 
my  question  is  in  regard  to  the  thirty  days,  because  the  observ- 
ance of  the  thirty  days  is  customary  on  the  festival  ?"  And  he 
answered  him:  "  It  does  not  enter."  Abayi  raised  an  objection 
based  on  the  following  Boraitha:  The  festival  enters  into  the 
computation  of  the  thirty  days.  How  so  ?  If  the  burial  took 
place  in  the  beginning  of  the  festival,  the  observance  of  the 
seven  days  begins  after  the  festival,  and  his  work  may  be  done 
by  others,  and  his  male  and  female  servants  may  do  their  work 
privately,  and  the  public  need  not  condole  with  him  during  the 
seven  days,  for  they  have  already  done  so  on  the  festival ;  and 
the  festival  enters  into  the  computation  of  the  thirty  days  ? 
This  objection  remains  unanswered.  When  Rabbin  came  from 
Palestine  he  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  **  Even  if  he  was 
buried  on  the  festival"  (the  festival  enters  into  computation). 
So  also  has  R.  Elazar  decided  to  his  son  R.  Padath. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  has  observed  the  lowering  of  the 
couch  for  three  days  prior  to  the  festival,  he  need  not  observe  it 
any  more  after  the  festival.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Eliezer. 
The  sages,  however,  hold:  "  Even  one  day,  and  even  one  hour." 
Said  R.  Elazar  b.  R.  Simeon:  These  are,  respectively,  the  de- 
crees of  the  school  of  Shammai  and  the  school  of  Hillel.  For 
the  school  of  Shammai  decrees:  "  Three  days  " ;  and  the  school 


38  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

of  Hillel  decrees:  "  Even  one  day."  Said  R.  Huna  in  the 
name  of  R.  Hyya  bar  Abba,  quoting  R.  Johanan,  and  according 
to  others  R.  Johanan  said  to  R.  Hyya  bar  Abba  and  R.  Huna: 
"  Even  one  day,  and  even  one  hour."  Rabha  said:  "  The 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  our  Tana  (of  the  Boraitha),  who 
holds  three  days." 

Rabina  happened  to  be  in  Sura  of  Euphrates.  Said  R. 
Habibha  to  him:  "  What  is  the  Halakha  ? "  And  he  answered 
him:  "  Even  one  day,  and  even  one  hour."  R.  Jose  bar 
Abin  said:  "  One  who  receives  information  which  is  recent  on 
the  festival,  but  becomes  remote  after  the  festival,  the  latter 
counts,  and  mourning  is  observed  only  one  day."  Rabbi 
Ada  of  Kisri  taught  before  R.  Johanan:  "One  who  receives 
information  which  is  recent  on  the  Sabbath  but  becomes  re- 
mote thereafter,  must  mourn  one  day  only."  Must  he  rend 
(his  garments)  or  not?  R.  Mani  said:  "  He  may  not."  R. 
Hanina,  however,  said:  "  He  may."  Said  R.  Mani  to  R. 
Hanina:  "As  to  my  statement,  it  is  correct,  because  rending 
is  customary  only  together  with  the  observance  of  the  seven 
days;  but  as  to  your  statement,  is  then  there  a  case  in  which 
one  must  rend  although  there  is  no  mourning  of  the  seven 
days?"  Is  there  not  such  a  case?  But  has  not  R.  Isi  the 
father  of  R.  Zera,  and  according  to  others  the  brother  of  R. 
Zera,  taught  before  R.  Zera:  "  One  who  has  no  garment  to  rend 
and  he  becomes  a  mourner,  if  within  the  seven  days,  he  must 
rend;  if  after  the  seven  days,  he  may  not"  ?  And  R.  Zera 
rejoined:  "  This  is  the  case  only  in  the  five  cases  of  relatives 
whom  one  is  bound  to  bury,  but  over  his  father  and  mother  he 
must  rend  notwithstanding  (the  lapse  of  the  seven  days  ?).  In 
this  case  it  is  only  out  of  respect  to  his  father  and  mother." 

'  *  Because  the  sages  held  that  Sabbath  enters  into  computation, 
etc.  The  inhabitants  of  Judea  and  the  inhabitants  of  Galilea: 
Those  hold  that  the  law  of  mourning  applies  on  Sabbath  (to 
things  done  privately),  because  the  Mishna  states:  "  It  enters 
into  computation";  and  these  hold  that  it  does  not  apply, 
because  the  Mishna  states:  "  But  it  does  not  supersede." 

But  does  not  the  Mishna  state  that  it  enters  into  computa- 
tion ?  It  is  only  because  it  has  to  state  in  the  latter  part,  that 
it  does  not  enter,  he  uses  also  in  the  first  past  ''enter."  But 
did  not  the  Mishna  state  plainly  "  it  does  not  supersede  "  ?  This 
is  for  the  same  reason,  as  it  has  to  state  in  the  latter  part  "it 
does  supersede  "   it  uses  the  same  term  in  the  first  part  also. 


TRACT    MOED    KATAN    (MINOR    FESTIVALS).         39 

Raphram  bar  Papa  said:  "We  have  learned  in  Tract  'Great 
Mourning  * :  *  A  mourner  is  prohibited  to  have  sexual  inter- 
course during  his  mourning.  It  happened  once  that  one  did 
have  sexual  intercourse  with  his  wife  during  his  mourning, 
and  his  corpse  was  dragged  about  by  hogs.'  "  Samuel  said: 
"To  remove  the  wrapping  from  the  head,  the  rent  from  the 
front  to  the  back,  and  to  put  the  couch  in  proper  condition  (on 
the  Sabbath)  is  obligatory ;  but  to  wear  shoes,  to  have  sexual 
intercourse,  and  to  bathe  the  hands  and  feet  in  warm  water  on 
Friday  evening  is  optional."  Rabh,  however,  said  that  even 
removing  the  wrapping  is  also  only  optional. 

Abayi  found  R.  Joseph  during  his  mourning  walking  around 
in  the  house  with  his  mantle  wrapped  around  his  head  (on  the 
Sabbath),  and  he  said  to  him:  "  Does  not  the  Master  hold  that 
mourning  is  not  customary  on  the  Sabbath  ?  "  And  he  answered 
him  :  "  So  said  R.  Johanan:  '  Things  of  a  private  nature  are  per- 
mitted.' " 

"  R.  Elazar  said :  Since  the  destruction  of  the  Temple,''  etc. 
R.  Giddel  bar  Menasiah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "The 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  Rabban  Gamaliel  (Berachoth), 
who  said  that  a  mourner  on  the  Sabbath  is  bound  to  observe  all 
the  commandments." 

R.  Anni  bar  Shashan  lectured  in  front  of  the  house  of  the 
Nasi:  "  If  (the  mourning  is)  observed  one  day  before  Pentecost 
and  on  Pentecost,  it  is  considered  to  have  been  observed  four- 
teen days."  (For  Pentecost  counts  for  seven  days,  and  so  also 
does  the  day  preceding  it,  as  stated  above.)  When  R.  Ami 
heard  of  this  he  was  angry,  and  said:  "  Is  this  then  his  own  ? 
This  was  stated  long  ago  by  R.  Elazar  in  the  name  of  R. 
Oshiya."  The  same  thing  was  stated  in  a  lecture  by  R.  Itz'hak 
of  Naph'ha  in  Babylon  at  the  cottage  of  the  Exilarch,  and  R. 
Shesheth  became  angry  because  R.  Elazar  in  the  name  of  R. 
Oshiya,  the  author  of  this  statement  (Hagiga,  40),  was  not 
mentioned.  R.  Papa,  accompanying  R.  Avia  the  elder,  lec- 
tured: "  One  day  (of  observance  of  mourning)  before  the  New 
Year  and  the  day  of  New  Year  count  for  fourteen  days."  Said 
Rabina:  "Therefore,  one  day  before  the  Tabernacles,  the 
Tabernacles,  and  the  eighth  day  (which  counts  for  a  separate  fes- 
tival) count  (regarding  mourning)  twenty-one  days."  Rabina 
happened  to  be  in  Sura  of  Euphrates.  Said  R.  Habibha  of 
same  place  to  him:  "  Do  you,  Master,  hold:  *  If  observed  one 
day  before  the  New  Year  and  on  the  New  Year  it  counts  four- 


40  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

teen  days'?"  And  he  answered  him:  "I  have  only  stated 
that  it  seems  to  me  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R. 
Gamaliel." 

MISHNA:  The  garments  are  not  rent,  nor  the  shoulders 
laid  bare,  nor  the  funeral  meal  eaten  (on  the  middle  days), 
unless  by  the  near  relatives  of  the  deceased.  The  funeral  meal 
is  not  to  be  taken  except  on  a  couch  standing  up  properly. 

GEMARA:  Does  this  apply  to  a  scholar  also?  Have  we 
not  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  When  a  scholar  dies,  all  must  rend 
their  garments,  bare  their  shoulders,  and  partake  of  the  funeral 
meal  served  in  the  public  thoroughfare,  for  all  are  considered  as 
his  relatives"  ?  Nay,  this  Mishna  refers  to  one  who  is  not  a 
scholar,  but  an  upright  man  over  whom  also  rending  is  obliga- 
tory, as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  Why  do 
little  children  die  ?  Because  their  parents  failed  to  weep  (mourn) 
over  the  death  of  an  upright  man ;  to  one  who  does  so,  all  his 
sins  are  forgiven,  for  the  honor  he  has  done  to  the  deceased." 
In  the  case  of  the  death  of  an  ordinary  person,  however,  rend- 
ing is  obligatory  only  on  the  one  who  is  present  at  the  time  of 
the  death,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  R. 
Simeon  b.  Elazar  said :  '  One  who  is  present  at  the  time  when 
the  death  occurs  is  bound  to  rend  his  garments,  for  it  is  similar 
to  the  case  of  one  who  is  present  at  the  time  the  Holy  Scrolls 
are  burned,  in  which  case  he  is  bound  to  rend  his  garments.*  " 
When  R.  Saphra's  soul  passed  unto  rest,  the  rabbis  intended 
not  to  rend  their  garments,  for  they  said:  "  We  received  no 
teachings  from  him."  Said  Abayi  to  them:  "  Does,  then,  the 
Boraitha  treat  of  a  rabbi  ?  It  treats  of  a  scholar,  and  still  more 
so  in  the  present  case,  when  his  Halakhas  are  always  on  our  lips 
in  the  college  ?"  Still  they  were  inclined  not  to  rend,  for  they 
said:  "  The  time  for  doing  so  has  already  passed."  Said  Abayi 
to  them:  "  We  have  learned:  In  the  case  of  a  scholar,  so  long 
as  the  funeral  orations  are  still  going  on,  one  is  bound  to  rend." 
They  then  wanted  to  rend  at  once  (without  holding  funeral  ora- 
tions). Said  Abayi  to  them:  "  There  is  a  Boraitha  that  states 
that  the  honor  paid  to  the  remains  of  a  scholar  lies  in  the  funeral 
oration."  When  R.  Huna  departed,  it  was  intended  to  place 
the  Holy  Scrolls  on  his  bier.  Said  R.  Hisda  to  them:  "  Shall 
we  now  act  against  his  will  ?  Has  not  R.  Ta'hlipha  said :  *  I 
was  once  present  when  R.  Huna  wanted  to  sit  down  on  a  cot  on 
which  the  Holy  Scrolls  were  lying,  and  he  first  removed  the 
latter  and  then  sat  down  *  ?     Hence  we  see  that  he  was  of  the 


TRACT    MOED    KATAN    (MINOR    FESTIVALS).         41 

opinion  that  one  must  not  sit  on  a  cot  on  which  the  Holy  Scrolls 
are  placed?"  When  the  cot  was  to  be  removed  from  the 
house,  it  was  found  out  that  it  could  not  pass  through  the  door; 
and  it  was  about  to  be  removed  through  the  roof  opening,  when 
R.  Hisda  remarked:  "  We  have  a  tradition  from  him  that  the 
honor  to  a  deceased  scholar  demands  that  he  be  removed 
through  the  door  opening."  They  then  wanted  to  place  him 
on  a  cot  of  smaller  dimensions,  but  R.  Hisda  again  remarked: 
"  We  have  a  tradition  from  him  that  the  respect  to  a  deceased 
scholar  demands  that  he  be  removed  in  the  cot  he  died  on." 
Then  they  broke  away  the  door-posts,  and  passed  him  out.  Then 
R.  Abba  began  the  following  eulogy:  "  Our  rabbi  was  worthy 
that  the  Shekhina  should  rest  upon  him,  but  Babylon  prevented 
it."  When  his  corpse  arrived  in  Palestine,  R.  Ami  and  R.  Assi 
were  informed  that  "  R.  Huna  had  arrived."  And  they  said 
(under  the  impression  that  he  was  alive):  **  When  we  were  in 
Babylon  we  could  not  raise  our  heads  on  account  of  him  (for  his 
great  learning),  and  now  he  has  followed  us  here."  And  they 
were  then  told:  "  His  coffin  has  arrived."  R.  Ami  and  R.  Assi 
went  out  (to  pay  their  respects).  R.  Aila  and  R.  Planina  re- 
mained in  the  house.  Others,  however,  said  that  only  R.  Hanina 
remained.  What  was  the  reason  of  those  who  went  out  ?  The 
following  Boraitha:  "  When  a  coffin  is  being  removed  from  one 
place  to  another,  those  present  must  stand  in  a  row  and  must  pro- 
nounce the  mourning  benediction  and  the  words  of  consolation." 
The  reason,  however,  of  those  who  did  not  go  out  is  the  follow- 
ing Boraitha:  "  When  a  coffin  is  being  removed  from  one  place 
to  another,  those  present  need  not  stand  in  a  row,"  etc.  But  do 
not  these  Boraithas  contradict  each  other  ?  Nay,  the  one  relates 
to  a  case  where  the  skeleton  is  still  in  good  condition ;  the  other 
where  it  is  not.  But  R.  Huna's  skeleton  was  still  in  good  con- 
dition ?  They  were  not  aware  of  that.  They  then  began  to 
deliberate  where  to  place  his  remains,  and  concluded  to  place 
them  alongside  of  those  of  R.  Hyya.  For  they  said  :  "  R.  Huna 
diffused  the  Torah  among  Israel  as  much  as  did  R.  Hyya." 
The  question  then  came  up  as  to  who  should  do  the  placing. 
Said  R.  Haga  to  them  :  '*  /will  do  it,  for  I  was  his  disciple  since 
the  age  of  eighteen.  I  never  had  a  wet-dream,  and  I  have 
served  him  since  then  and  knew  his  ways:  once  it  happened  that 
one  of  his  phylactery  fillets  turned  over,  and  he  fasted  forty 
days."  When  R.  Haga  brought  in  the  coffin  into  the  arch,  he 
noticed  that  Jehudah  was  sleeping  at  the  right  of  his  father  and 


42  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Hezekiah  at  his  left.  He  heard  Jehudah  say  to  his  brother: 
"  Rise,  for  it  would  not  be  correct  not  to  pay  respect  to 
R.  Huna."  When  he  arose,  a  pillar  of  fire  arose  with  him. 
R.  Haga  became  frightened  and,  lifting  up  the  cofifin  of  R. 
Huna,  left  the  arch. 

When  R.  Hisda  died  they  wanted  to  place  the  Holy  Scrolls 
on  his  bier.  Said  R.  Itz'hak :  "  A  thing  which  was  not  approved 
by  his  Master  (R.  Huna),  we  must  not  do  to  him."  They  also 
intended  to  leave  their  rent  garments  unmended,  when  R. 
Itz'hak  bar  Ami  said  to  them:  "  In  case  of  a  scholar,  the  rent 
may  be  sewed  together  as  soon  as  those  who  follow  the  cofifin 
turn  away  their  faces  from  the  latter."  When  Rabba  bar  Huna 
and  R.  Hamnuna  had  died  in  Babylon,  their  bodies  were  brought 
on  camels  to  Palestine.  Arrived  at  a  narrow  bridge,  where  the 
two  camels  could  not  pass  at  once,  both  remained  standing. 
An  Ishmaelitish  merchant  present,  surprised  at  the  interruption 
of  the  journey,  asked  for  the  reason,  and  was  told  that  each  of 
the  deceased  wished  to  give  the  other  the  preference  of  the  way. 
"  If  I  were  to  give  my  view  of  the  matter,"  the  Arab  said,  "  I 
should  decide  in  favor  of  Rabba  bar  Huna  (as  he  was  known  to 
me  as  a  venerable  man)."  The  Arab  had  hardly  concluded  his 
remarks,  when  the  camel  bearing  Rabba  passed  the  bridge. 
(As  a  punishment  for  not  paying  proper  respect  to  R.  Ham- 
nuna), the  molars  and  front  teeth  of  the  Arab  fell  out.  A 
disciple  declaimed  the  following  elegy: 

A  learned  scion  of  an  ancient  race 
Upward  to  Sacred  Palestina  draws, 
And  bears  into  illimitable  space 
The  code  of  battles,  the  great  book  of  laws. 
The  cormorant  and  the  hedgehog  nightly  gloat 
Upon  destruction  spreading  far  and  wide  ; 
For  God  His  wrath  upon  the  earth  has  hurled, 
Our  pious  sage  His  voice  has  called  away  ; 
And  God  is  glad  that  from  this  sinful  world 
His  dearest  servant  has  come  home  to  stay.* 

When  Rabina  died,  the  funeral  orator  held  the  following 
oration : 

Bend,  ye  majestic  palms,  in  grief  sincere 
O'er  one  who  like  a  palm  had  flourished  here  ; 
Nor  cease  your  mourning  when  the  moon's  soft  ray 
Changes  to  shadowy  night  the  brilliant  day. 

*  From   "The  Poetry  of   the  Talmud,"  by  Sekels,  with  metrical  corrections,  as 
also  the  verses  following.  ' 


TRACT    MOED    KATAN    (MINOR   FESTIVALS).         43 

For  moon's  broad  glare  had  oft  to  midnight  waned 
Ere  slumber  o'er  his  studious  eyelids  reigned. 

R.  Ashi  said  to  Bar  Kipuk  (the  funeral  orator) :  "  What  ora- 
tion will  you  make  on  that  day  (of  my  death)  ? "  And  he 
answered  him  :  *'  The  following  : 

How  can  the  lowly  hyssop  still  survive, 
When  with  devouring  flames  the  cedars  strive  .? 
With  huge  Leviathan  the  angler's  prey, 
What  have  the  fishes  of  the  pond  to  say  ? 
If  the  dry  torrents  shame  the  fisher's  hook, 
How  fares  it  with  the  waters  of  the  brook  ?  " 

Said  Bar  Abhin  to  him :  *'  Heaven  forbid  that  '  net '  and 
'flame'  be  used  in  orations  over  the  righteous."  "What,  then, 
v^oxAdiyou  say  ?  "  "I  would  say  :  '  Weep  for  the  losers  but  not  for 
the  lost  (deceased),  for  he  passed  into  rest  but  we  into  grief.'  " 
R.  Ashi  felt  discouraged  (for  one  orator  used  the  words  '^  net " 
and  **  flame,"  and  the  other  the  word  "lost"),  and  their  (of  the 
orators)  feet  upturned.  When  he  died,  neither  of  the  orators 
came  to  hold  orations.  And  this  was  meant  by  R.  Ashi  when 
he  said :  "  Neither  Bar  Kipuk  nor  Bar  Abhin  would  be  bound  to 
perform  the  ceremony  of  Halitza."  {Vide  Yebamoth,  103^,  where 
it  is  stated  that  those  who  have  deformed  feet  are  not  bound  to 
perform  Halitza.) 

When  Rabha  came  to  Hiddekel,  he  said  to  Bar  Abhin  :  "  Pro- 
nounce an  (appropriate)  prayer,"  and  the  latter  began :  "  The 
major  part  of  Israel  went  through  water;  remember,  and  have 
mercy.  We  went  astray  from  Thee  as  a  woman  goeth  astray 
from  her  husband ;  do  not  cast  us  off,  for  it  may  have  the  same 
indication  as  that  of  the  bitter-water."     SJ^ide  Num.  v.  11-28.] 

R.  Hanin,  the  son-in-law  of  the  Nasi,  had  been  for  a  long  time 
childless  ;  he  prayed  and  was  answered.  On  the  day  of  the  birth 
of  the  child  he  died.  The  funeral  orator  on  this  occasion  de- 
claimed the  following  elegy : 

Parental  joy  was  changed  to  hopeless  pain  : 
Where  bliss  had  entered,  grief  was  doomed  to  reign  ; 
For  in  the  moment  of  his  hope  fulfilled. 
The  joyful  beating  of  that  heart  was  stilled. 

The  child  was  named  Hanin  after  his  father.  When  R.  Johanan 
died,  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Elazar  began  the  eulogy  as  follows  :  "  This 
day  is  as  momentous  to  Israel  as  the  day  of  which  the  prophet 


44  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

spoke  [Amos,  viii.  9]  :  '  And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  that  day 
that  I  will  cause  the  sun  to  go  down  at  noon,'  "  which  R.  Johanan 
explained  to  have  reference  to  the  day  of  the  death  of  the  King 
Josiah.  When  R.  Johanan  departed,  R.  Ami  observed  both 
the  seven  and  the  thirty  days  (of  mourning).  Said  R.  Abba  the 
son  of  R.  Hyya  bar  Abba :  ''  R.  Ami  stands  alone  in  his  action, 
for  so  said  my  father  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  '  Even  over  an 
instructor  in  science  one  need  not  mourn  more  than  one  day.'  " 
When  R.  Zera  departed,  the  funeral  orator  delivered  the  follow- 
ing oration  : 

In  Babylon  this  noble  sage  was  born, 
In  Palestine  he  was  admired  and  cherished  ; 
"Woe  unto  me  !  "  doth  Reketh  *  sadly  mourn, 
"  For  my  most  precious  jewel  now  has  perished." 

When  R.  Abuhu  died,  the  pillars  of  Kisri  shed  tears  ;  when  R. 
Jose  died,  the  gutters  of  Sepphoris  were  overrun  with  blood  ; 
when  R.  Jacob  died,  the  stars  were  seen  in  the  day-time ;  when 
R,  Assi,  all  the  trees  were  rooted  out  ;  when  R.  Hyya,  fire-balls 
fell  from  heaven ;  when  R.  Mena'ham  (ben  R.  Simai),  all  the 
images  became  obliterated  and  as  smooth  as  if  passed  upon  with 
a  roller ;  when  R.  Tan'hum  bar  Hyya  died,  all  the  impressions 
upon  the  images  were  effaced  ;  when  R.  Eliashib,  seventy  bur- 
glaries were  committed  in  Nehardea  ;  when  R.  Hamnuna,  hail- 
stones fell  from  heaven  ;  when  Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  died,  the 
bridge-arches  of  Euphrates  collapsed ;  when  Abayi  and  Rabha, 
the  bridge-arches  of  Hiddekel  collapsed  ;  when  R.  Mesharshia 
died,  the  trees  were  laden  with  thorns  (instead  of  fruit). f 

MISHNA:  The  food  for  the  funeral  meal  is  not  placed 
before  the  mourners  on  a  table,  nor  in  a  silver  tureen,  nor  in  a 
dish,  but  in  wicker  baskets.  The  mourning  prayers  must  not 
be  pronounced  on  the  middle  days,  but  the  rows  are  formed  and 
the  consolation  is  pronounced  and  the  people  assembled  are  at 
once  dismissed.  The  bier  must  not  be  set  down  in  any  public 
place,  that  the  mourning  may  not  spread  (in  the  middle  days). 
The  bier  of  women  must  at  no  time  be  there  set  down,  on  ac- 
count of  respect  (to  the  sex  of  the  deceased).  J 

T/ie  bier  must  7iot  be  set  down  in  ariy  public  street. ' '     Said  R. 

*  Reketh  is  Tiberias.     (Rashi.) 

f  AH  this  must  not  be  understood  literally  but  allegorically. 

X  The  Gemara  belonging  to  this  Mishna,  which  properly  does  not  <  o  ne  in  here, 
will  be  found  in  its  proper  place. 


TRACT    MOED    KATAN    (MINOR   FESTIVALS).         45 

Papa  :  "  No  middle  days  are  considered  in  regard  to  a  scholar 
(Talmid-Hakham),  and  so  much  the  more  so  the  half-feast  of 
Hanuka  or  Purim.  This,  however,  is  the  case  only  in  the  pres- 
ence of  the  corpse."  This  is  not  so?  Has  not  R.  Kahana 
lamented  over  the  death  of  R.  Zbhid  of  Nehardea  on  the  banks 
of  the  river  (and  surely  the  corpse  was  not  there)  ?  Said  R. 
Papa:  "  That  was  on  the  very  day  he  received  the  information, 
which  is  equivalent  to  the  presence  of  the  corpse." 

MISHNA:  The  mourning  women  may  wail  during  the  mid- 
dle days,  but  not  clap  (their  palms  together),  R.  Ishmael  said : 
The  nearest  to  the  bier  may  clap.  On  the  days  of  the  New 
Moon,  on  the  half-festivals  of  Hanuka  and  Purim,  they  may  wail 
and  clap,  but  must  not  sing  lamentations  ;  but  when  the  corpse 
is  interred,  they  must  neither  wail  aloud  nor  clap. 

What  is  meant  by  wailing  ?  When  all  of  them  join  in  one 
chorus.  What  is  meant  by  lamentation  ?  When  one  recites  and 
the  others  respond,  as  it  is  written  [Jer.  ix.  20]  :  "  Teach  your 
daughters  wailing  and  every  one  her  neighbor  lamentation." 
But  of  the  age  that  is  to  come  it  is  written  [Isa.  xxv.  8]  :  *'  He 
will  destroy  death  to  eternity  ;  and  the  Lord  Eternal  will  wipe 
away  the  tear  from  off  all  faces." 

GEMARA :  R.  Levi  bar  Hitha  said  :  One  who  takes  leave 
of  the  dead  shall  not  say,  "  Go  in  peace,"  but  ''  Go  wit/i  peace," 
as  it  is  written  [Gen.  xv.  15]  :  ''  But  thou  shalt  come  to  thy  fathers 
ttz/VA  peace "  (^^sholom) ;  but  the  contrary  must  be  said  when 
taking  leave  of  the  living.  When  David  said  to  Absalom  :  "  Go 
wM  peace"  [II  Sam.  xv.  9],  the  latter  hanged  himself;  while, 
when  Jethro  said  to  Moses  [Exod.  iv.  18]:  ''Go  in  peace" 
(Z^sholom),  Moses  went  and  was  successful.  R.  Levi  further 
said  :  One  who  goes  from  the  college  to  the  prayer-house,  and 
vice  versa,  is  rewarded  by  receiving  the  appearance  of  the  She- 
khina,  as  it  is  written  [Psalms,  Ixxxiv.  8]  :  "  They  go  from  strength 
(college)  to  strength  (the  prayer-house) ;  each  of  them  appeared 
before  God  in  Zion."  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  said  in  the  name  of 
Rabh  :  "  Scholars  (Talmide-Hakhamim)  have  no  rest  even  in  the 
world  to  come,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.]  :  '  They  go  from  strength  to 
strength  ;  each  of  them  appeareth  before  God  in  Zion.'  " 


END   OF  TRACT   MOED   KATAN  (MINOR   FESTIVALS). 


Princeton  Theological  Seminat7  Libraries 


1    1012  01249  6891 


