I       !' 


ill'lil 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiinnniinii 


tihrary  of  ti\e  trheolo^ical  ^eminarjo 

PRINCETON  •  NEW  JERSEY 
PRESENTED  BY 

John  Stuart  Conning,  D.D« 

BM  bUU  .Rb  lyib  V.l/-lb 
Talmud. 

New  edition  of  the 
Babylonian  Talmud 


new     c  L^  1  1  1  w  i>( 


^^oiiiAL  t.v 


BABYLONIAN  TALMUD 


©riainal  Uejt,  ]Et)itet),  Corrected,  3formulate&,  an& 
Uranslateb  into  Bnglisb 


MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


SECTION   JURISPRUDENCE    (DAMAGES) 
TRACTS  ABUDA  ZARA  AND  HORIOTH 


Volume    X.  (XVIIL) 


Boston 

THE  TALMUD  SOCIETY 

1918 


EXPLANATORY  REMARKS. 

In  our  translation  we  adopted  these  principles: 

>.  Tenan  of  the  original — We  have  learned  in  a  Mishna;  Tania—Wt  llATe 
learned  iu  a  Boraitha;  Itemar — It  was  taught. 

2.  Questions  are  indicated  by  the  interrogation  point,  and  are  immediately 
followed  by  the  answers,  without  being  so  marked. 

3.  When  in  the  original  there  occur  two  statements  separated  by  the  phrase, 
Lishna  achrena  or  Waibayith  Aetna  or  Ikha  ^'aw/rj  (literally,  "otherwise  interpreted  "), 
we  translate  only  the  second. 

4.  As  the  pages  of  the  original  are  indicated  in  our  new  Hebrew  edition,  it  is  not 
deemed  necessary  to  mark  them  in  the  English  edition,  this  being  only  a  translation 
from  the  latter. 

5 .  Words  or  passages  enclosed  in  round  parentheses  (  )  denote  the  explanation 
rendered  by  Rashi  to  the  foregoing  sentence  or  word.  Square  parentheses  [  ]  CObtaiQ 
commentaries  by  authorities  of  the  last  period  of  construction  of  the  Gemara. 


COPTKICMT,  X903,  BV 

MICHAEL  L.  ROOKINSOM. 


Copyright  1916,  by 
NEW  TALMUD  PUBLISHING  SOCIETY 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Synopsis  of  Subjects  of  Tract  Abuda  Zara  (Idolatry),        v 


CHAPTER   I. 

Rules  and  Regulations  Concerning  Transaction  of  Busi- 
ness With  Heathens  on  Their  Festival  Days  ;  Which 
Festivals  are  Considered,  and  What  Real  Estate 
May  be  Sold  and  Rented,  and  at  What  Places 


CHAPTER   II. 

Rules  and  Regulations  Concerning  Placing  of  Cattle 
With  Heathens,  Accepting  Cure  from  Them,  ani> 
Concerning  Things  Which  May  and  May  Not  Be 
Bought  from  Them 41 

CHAPTER  HI. 

Rules  and  Regulations  Concerning  the  Deriving  of 
Benefit  from  Profaned  Idols  and  Images  of  Heathens 
AND  Israelites. — Concerning  Utensils  on  Which  Are 
Engraved  the  Sun,  the  Moon   and  Other  Planets.       82 


CHAPTER   IV. 

Concerning  Objects  Used  for  Idols. — The  Manner  in 
Which  an  Idol  is  Profaned  so  as  to  be  Allowed  for 
Use, — The  Discussions  Between  the  Elders  of  Rome 
ON  THE  One  Hand  and  R.  Lamaliel,  the  Prince,  on 
THE  Other. — How  to  Prepare  Wine  in  the  Possession 
OF  A  Heathen  for  Israelites 104 


iv  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER   V. 

PAGE 

Rules  and  Regulations  Concerning  Wages  and  Libation 
Wine. — Effects  of  such  Wine  when  Falling  on  Fruit 
or  Mixing  with  Other  Wine. — Under  what  Circum- 
stances Wine  May  be  Left  with  a  Heathen. — Con- 
ditions UNDER  which  JeWISH  WiNE  IS  SoLD  TO  HEATH- 
ENS.— Determination  of  Quantity  of  Libation  Wine 
Mixed  with  Other  Wine. — How  Vessels  of  Heathen 
are  to  be  Altered  to  Make  Them  Fit  for  a  Jewish 
Table 135 


1 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT  ABUDA  ZARA  (IDOLATRY). 


CHAPTER.  I. 

MiSHNA  /.  Three  days  before  the  festival  of  the  heathen,  it  is  for- 
bidden to  have  any  business  with  them.  In  the  future  the  Lord  will  take 
the  Holy  Scroll  in  hand,  saying,  "He  who  was  occupied  with  it  shall  appear 
and  receive  his  reward."  The  kingdom  of  Rome  will  then  enter  first,  etc. 
After  Rome  has  departed,  Persia  enters,  etc.  We  have  constructed  many 
bridges,  conquered  many  great  cities,  we  were  engaged  in  many  wars,  all  for 
the  sake  of  Israel  to  enable  them  to  study  the  law,  etc.  "Have  we  then 
accepted  the  Torah,  and  not  fulfilled  its  commandments? "  A  Gentile 
who  is  occupied  with  the  study  of  the  law  is  likened  to  a  High-priest,  etc. 
"  Lord  of  the  Universe,  has  then  Israel,  who  has  accepted  the  Torah, 
observed  it?  "  "  Men  of  ye  nations  may  come  and  testify  that  Israel  has 
observed  the  Torah.  Nimrod  may  testify,  etc.  There  are  twelve  hours  in  a 
day,  three  hours  of  which  the  Lord  is  occupied  with  the  Torah,  etc.  There 
is  no  smiling  by  the  Lord,  since  the  temple  was  destroyed.  But  in  the 
fourth  three  hours  He  teaches,  etc.  There  is  no  Gehenna  in  the  future. 
But  the  Lord  will  take  out  the  sun  from  its  sheath,  etc.  If  not  for  the  fear 
for  government  the  stronger  would  swallow  the  weaker,  etc.  Concerning 
the  explanation  of  (Amos,  iii.  2)  said  R.  Abuhuh,  I  will  do  it  in  the  form  of  a 
parable.  There  was  once  a  creditor  of  two  persons,  one  a  friend  and  the 
other  an  enemy  of  his.  It  is  advisable  for  one  not  to  pray  singly  the  addi- 
tional benediction  in  the  first  three  hours  at  the  first  day  of  new  year.  When 
one  performs  a  meritorious  act  in  this  world  it  precedes  him  in  the  world  to 
come.  "  Three  days,"  etc.  Is  such  a  long  time  needed?  is  this  forbidden 
because  a  Jew  must  not  interfere  with  the  idols,  or  because  "  Thou  shalt  not 
put  a  stone  for  the  blind "  ?  The  prohibition  to  do  business  with  them 
refers  only  to  a  thing  which  can  be  kept  in  good  order  until  the  festival  day. 
It  is  advisable  for  one  to  always  arrange  the  praises  of  the  Ominipotent  first, 
and  thereafter  to  recite  the  daily  eighteen  benedictions.  The  following  are 
the  festivals  of  the  heathens:  Kalends,  Saturnalia,  Kratsin,  etc.  Adam  the 
first,  on  the  first  day  of  his  creation,  when  he  saw  the  sun  set,  cried:  "  Woe 
is  to  me,  the  world  is  to  be  returned  to  chaos,  etc."  Thirty-two  battles  the 
Romans  fought  with  the  Greeks,  etc.    Twenty-six  years  the  Romans  kept  their 


vi  SYNOPSIS   OF    SUBJECTS. 

promise  to  Israel,  and  thereafter  they  failed.  The  twenty-six  years  are  not 
counted.  The  world  will  continue  for  six  thousand  years,  the  first  two 
thousand  of  which  were  a  chaos  (Tahu),  etc.  It  happened  with  Antoninus 
(the  Caesar  of  Rome),  who  said  to  Rabbi,  etc.  (See  the  whole  legend,  pp. 
16-18).  Unklus  b.  Klenimus  embraced  Judaism,  and  the  Caesar  sent  militia 
to  take  him,  etc.  (Sec  the  legend,  pp.  18-19).  There  was  still  another  festi- 
val in  Rome  which  occurs  once  in  seventy  years,  on  which  they  would  make 

a  well  man  ride  on  a  lame  man,  etc 1-21 

MiSHNA  IV.  In  a  city  where  the  idol  is  placed,  interfering  is  forbidden 
inside,  but  not  outside.  If,  during  an  idol  ^festival  in  the  city,  some 
stores  were  there  decorated,  one  must  not  buy,  etc.  The  following  are  for- 
bidden to  be  sold  to  the  heathens;  Fir-cones,  etc.  We  have  a  tradition  that 
the  tract  Aboda  Zara  of  Abraham  the  patriarch  contained  four  hundred  chap- 
ters, etc.  Where  it  is  customary  to  sell  small  cattle  to  heathens  it  is  lawful 
to  do  so,  etc.  One  must  not  sell  to  them  bears,  lions,  and  all  such  things,  by 
which  the  people  can  be  injured,  etc.  I  walked  in  the  upper  market  of 
Ciporas,  and  I  met  one  of  the  minim,  named  Jacob,  of  the  village  of  Sac- 
hania.  So  taught  Josa  B.  Southyra,  etc.  (See  foot-note,  p.  27.)  The  legend 
of  Eliazer  ben  Durdaya  (28).  The  leech  hath  two  daughters  (crying), 
"  Give,  give,"  i.e.  minunism — and  the  government,  which  are  never  satisfied, 
etc.  Raba  sold  an  ass  to  an  Israelite  who  was  suspected  of  selling  it  to  a 
heathen,  etc.  He  who  occupies  himself  with  the  Torah,  but  does  not  observe 
bestowing  of  favors,  is  similar  to  him  who  denies  God.  The  Legend  of 
Eliezer  b.  Sarta  and  Chanina  b.  Tradion  when  captured  by  government, 
p.  29,  30.  How  Chanina  was  burned  together  with  the  holy  scrolls,  and 
what  became  of  his  wife  and  daughter,  p.  31,  32.  The  redeeming  of  latter 
by  R.  Mair  (Baal  Hanes),  p.  3^.  Happy  is  he  who  conquers  his  evil  spirit, 
as  a  heroic  man,  etc.  It  is  advisable  to  divide  one's  years  into  three  parts: 
one-third  for  the  study  of  Scripture,  the  second  Mishna,  and  the  third  Tal- 
nmd,  etc.  R.  Aqiba  when  he  saw  the  wife  of  Tornus  Rupers,  he  laughed  and 
wept,  etc.  Houses  must  not  be  rented  to  the  heathens  in  Palestine,  etc. 
One  must  not  rent  his  bath-house  to  a  heathen,  but  how  is  it  to  a  Samaritan? 
etc 21-40 


CHAPTER  II. 

Mishna  /.  Cattle  must  not  be  placed  in  the  inns  of  the  heathens.  (See 
foot-note,  p.  41.)  "And  the  cows  went  straight  forward,"  etc.  What  does 
this  expression  mean?  It  reads  (Jos.  x.  13):  "And  the  sun  stood  still, 
written  in  the  book  of  Yasher."  What  is  the  book  of  Yasher?  One  must 
not  stay  alone  even  with  two  women.  If  an  Israelite  while  on  the  road, 
happened  to  be  accompanied  by  a  heathen,  etc.  One  must  not  confine  a 
heathen  because  she  brought  up  a  person  to  idolatry,  etc.  A  city  in  which 
there  is  no  Jewish  physician,  but  a  Samaritan  and  a  heathen,  the  heathen 
shall  circumcise  and  not  the  Samaritan.  One  may  employ  their  (the 
heathens')  services  for  curing  his  personal  property,  etc.  Ben  Dama  was 
bitten  by  a  snake,  Jacob  come  to  heal  him  with  the  name  of  Jesus,  but  R. 
Ismael  did  not  allow.  With  R.  Johanan  it  is  diflferent,  as  he  himself  was  an 
established  physician.  Medicines  and  other  remedies  for  different  sickness 
by  different  men  and  women,  on  pp.  50-53.    The  following  things  of  the 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  vii 

heathens  are  prohibited,  and  the  prohibition  extends  even  to  the  deriving 
of  any  benefit  therefrom — viz:  wine,  vinegar,  etc.  No  benefit  is  to  be 
derived  from  the  dead.  Samuel  and  Ablat,  the  latter  who  was  a  heathen, 
were  sitting  together,  and  cooked  wine  was  brought  for  them,  etc.  To 
fermenting  wine  no  uncovery  applies.  One,  must  not  pour  water  which 
has  been  uncovered,  in  the  public  streets,  and  also  not  water  cattle  with  it. 
The  sages  forbid  date-beer  of  the  heathens,  as  a  safeguard  against  inter- 
marriage. The  sick  heathens  who  become  swollen,  and  whom  uncovered 
water  does  not  harm,  surely  ate  reptiles,  so  that  their  bodies  contain 
poison  which  prevent  the  harming  effects  of  the  snake-poison.  A 
heathen  pilgrim  is  prohibited  only  when  on  his  way  to  the  idol,  etc. 
Enamelled  vessels,  no  matter  what  color,  are  permissable.  Fish  oil  made 
by  a  heathen  specialist  is  permissable.  Why  did  the  sages  forbid 
the  cheese  of  Anugiki?  Sweet  are  to  me  the  words  of  thy  friends 
(the  sages  who  are  explaining  the  law),  more  than  the  essence  of  the  Torah. 
Compress  your  lips,  one  upon  the  other,  and  hasten  not  to  propound  ques- 
tion,            41-65 

MiSHNA  V.  The  following  are  prohibited,  but  not  from  deriving  benefit 
from  them:  Milk,  etc.  What  is  the  reason  for  the  prohibition  of  milk?  etc. 
Concerning  oil,  Daniel  has  decreed  the  prohibition  according  to  Rabh,  etc. 
To  everything  which  is  not  served  on  the  table  of  noblemen  to  relish  the 
bread,  the  prohibition  of  "  cooked  by  a  heathen  "  does  not  apply.  All  that 
may  be  eaten  in  a  raw  state,  may  also  be  eaten  when  cooked  by  a  heathen. 
The  sea-donkey  is  allowed,  but  not  the  sea-ox;  and  you  remember  this  by 
the  following  mark:  the  unclean  (on  earth?)  is  clean,  while  the  clean  is 
unclean.  We  are  to  trust  the  wife  of  a  scholar  as  we  have  trusted  her 
husband.  Meat,  wine,  blue  wool  that  are  to  be  forwarded  through  a 
heathen,  require  each  two  seals.  The  following  things  are  allowed  to  eat, 
milk  milked  by  a  heathen  in  the  presence  of  an  Israelite,  honey  and  honey- 
cake,  etc.  Fish  entrails  as  well  as  fish-rye  you  may  buy  only  of  a  specialist, 
etc.  If  the  vender  says,  I  have  pickled  the  fish  and  know  them  to  be  clean, 
he  is  trusted.  Praised  be  the  Omnipotent,  who  puts  this  world  in  the  hands 
of  guardians!        .         .  .        .  .         .         .         •         •         •         65-81 


CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNA  /.  TO  VI.  All  images  are  prohibited,  for  they  are  worshipped 
at  least  once  a  year.  The  staff  in  the  hand  of  the  idol.  The  bird  in  its 
hand  of  the  idol.  Finally,  the  sphere  is  to  indicate  that  it  sacrifices  itself 
for  the  whole  globe.  If  one  finds  fragments  of  images,  he  is  allowed  to 
use  them,  etc.  It  is  taught  that  a  heathen  can  profane  the  idol  of  his 
fellow  heathen  as  well  as  his  own,  while  an  Israelite  cannot  profane  the  idol 
of  a  heathen.  If  one  finds  vessels  with  the  image  of  the  sun,  moon,  etc., 
he  must  throw  them  into  the  salt  lake.  The  human  image  and  that  of  a 
nurse  are,  however,  prohibited  only  when  having  respectively  a  measure  in 
the  hand  and  a  son  in  the  arms  whom  she  is  nursing.  One  may  grind 
the  images  and  scatter  them  to  the  wind,  or  sink  them  into  the  sea,  etc. 
Peroklas,  the  son  of  a  philosopher,  asked  once  R.  Gamaliel  at  Ako,  who  was 
then  bathing  in  the  bath  of  the  goddess  Aphrodite,  etc.  R.  Gamaliel  gave 
Peroklas  an  evasive  answer;  but  I  (Hama)  say  it  was  not  evasive,  etc.,  etc. 


Hii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

The  mountains  and  hills  worshipped  by  heathens  are  allowed  to  use, 
but  not  the  things,  brought  upon  them,  etc.  Wherever  you  find  a  high 
mountain,  an  elevated  hill,  a  leafy  tree,  there  is  surely  an  idol  there.  A 
town  or  place  bearing  the  name  of  an  idol  should  be  renamed.  If  stones 
absolved  fortuitously  from  a  mountain  rock,  that  was  worshipped,  is  their 
use  allowed  or  not  ?...,....  82-96 

MiSHNA  VII.  TO  XV.  If  a  house  situated,  close  by  a  worship-house  of 
an  idol  crumbles  down,  its  owner  is  prohibited  from  rebuilding  it,  etc. 
There  are  three  kinds  of  houses.  There  are  three  kinds  of  stones.  There 
are  three  kinds  of  groves,  etc.  What  is  a  grove?  A  tree  with  an  idol  under 
it.  R.  Simion  said:  "Any  tree  that  is  worshipped.  It  is  not  allowed  to  sit 
down  in  the  shade  of  such  a  tree."  Under  such  a  tree  is  allowed  to  sow 
herbs  in  the  winter,  but  not  in  summer,  etc.  To  derive  any  benefit  of  wood 
obtained  from  an  idol-grove  is  prohibited.  How  is  the  idol  worship  of  a 
tree  profaned,  etc.?        ........  96-103 


CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNA  /.  TO  VI.  Three  stones  near  one  another  and  beside  the 
Merkules  are  prohibited.  The  son  of  the  saints  treads  on  them,  should  we 
abstain  thereform?  Who  was  this  son,  etc.?  One  is  not  liable  for  slaughter- 
ing a  blemished  animal  to  an  idol,  etc.  Money,  garments,  utensils  found 
on  the  head  of  an  idol  are  allowed,  etc.  The  use  of  a  garden  or  bathing- 
place  belonging  to  an  idol  is  allowed  when  it  is  gratis,  etc.  It  is  common 
sense  that  that  idol  of  an  Israelite  should  be  forbidden  from  the  very 
beginning,  etc.  Whether  or  no  food  offered  to  an  idol,  if  profaned,  loses 
thereby  its  defilement?  There  was  a  pantry  in  the  temple,  where  the 
Macabees  heaped  up  the  stones  of  the  altar  defiled  by  the  Greeks.  A 
heathen  can  profane  his  idol  as  well  as  that  of  his  neighbor,  etc.  How  is 
an  idol  to  be  profaned?  If  an  Israelite  erects  a  brick  to  worship  it,  but 
does  not  worship,  and  a  heathen  comes,  and  worships  it,  it  is  prohibited, 
etc.  An  idol  anbandoned  by  its  worshippers  in  time  of  peace  is  allowed. 
My  respect  for  Rabh  and  Samuel  is  so  great  that  I  should  readily  fill  my 
eyes  with  the  ashes  of  their  corpses;  none  the  less,  etc.  An  animal  resting 
in  the  proximity  of  an  idol  becomes  unallowable,  etc.  The  animal 
obtained  by  the  idol-worshippers  in  exchange  for  an  idol  is  for- 
bidden        .         .  103-119 

MiSHNA  VII.  TO  IX.  If  God  is  displeased  with  idol-worship,  why  does  he 
not  destroy  the  idols,  etc.?  If  the  heathens  worshipped  but  things  not  need- 
ful to  the  world.  He  would  surely  annihilate  them;  but  they  worship  the 
sun,  moon,  stars  and  the  planets.  How  is  it  that  so  many  cripples  are 
cured  by  the  idols  in  their  temples?  If  one  comes  to  defile  himself,  the 
door  is  opened  to  him,  while  when  one  comes  to  cleanse  himself,  he  is 
supported.  It  is  forbidden  both  to  tread  and  to  gather  with  an  Israelite, 
who  prepares  the  wine  while  he  is  unclean,  etc.  They  further  warned 
against  contributing  toward  the  conditions  defiling  the  fruit  in  Palestine, 
etc.  It  once  happened  that  an  Israelite  and  a  heathen  jointly  hired  and 
worked  a  wine-press  in  the  City  of  Nahardea,  etc.  A  heathen  once  hap- 
pened to  enter  the  house  of  a  Jewish  wine-seller,  etc.  R.  Johanan  b.  Arza 
and   R.  Jose  b.    Nehorai  were  once   sitting  together  indulging  a  little  in 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  ix 

wine,  when  a  man  came  in,  etc.  Does  a  heathen  render  the  wine  prohibited 
by  pouring  water  into  it?  Whether  it  is  allowed  to  hire  a  heathen  for  con- 
veying grapes  to  the  wine-press  of  an  Israelite,  etc.?  A  heathen  stand- 
ing near  the  wine  reservoir  renders  the  wine  forbidden,  provided  he  has 
a  lien  on  it,  etc.  If  an  Israelite,  who  has  cleansed  the  wine  of  a  heathen, 
left  it  on  the  latter's  premises,  etc.  When  and  Israelite  buys  or  rents  a  house 
in  the  courtyard  of  a  heathen,  etc.  It  once  happened  that  Israelites  bought 
of  Sarsik,  the  viceroy,  the  grapes  of  a  vineyard,  etc.      ,        .        .        1 19-134 


CHAPTER   V. 

MiSHNA  7.  TO  V.  The  wages  of  a  laborer  hired  by  a  heathen  to  work 
with  him,  wine  for  libation  are  prohibited.  How  is  it  when  the  heathen 
hires  a  Jewish  laborer  to  prepare  wine  in  general?  Whether  or  no  the  use 
of  the  money  obtained  by  a  heathen  from  the  sale  of  an  idol  is  all  for- 
bidden to  an  Israelite.  Can  a  citizen-proselyte,  a  heathen  settled  down 
in  the  land  of  Israel,  on  having  taking  upon  himself  not  to  practice  idol- 
worship  only,  etc.  "Jews  in  prospect  such  pleasures  in  your  paradise?  Do 
you  really  mean,"  said  the  other,  "that  there  are  greater  pleasures  than 
this?"  If  offered  wine  he  poured  on  grapes,  etc.  In  the  case  when  beer 
vinegar  was  intermixed  with  wine  vinegar,  or  oaten  yeast  with  wheat  yeast, 
etc.  The  rule  is:  "a  prohibited  thing  renders  another  one  forbidden,"  etc. 
It  once  happened  that  a  mouse  was  found  in  a  barrel  of  beer,  and  Rabh  pro- 
hibited the  beer.  Wine  known  as  being  watched,  is  allowed  when  trans- 
ported from  place  to  place  by  a  heathen,  etc.  "  When  an  Israelite  leaves  his 
wine  in  the  wagon,"  etc.  Jewish  wine  was  once  stored  up  in  a  house, 
where  a  heathen  and  an  Israelite  lived  in  the  lower  and  upper  floors, 
respectively,  etc,  An  Israelite  and  a  heathen  were  once  at  an  inn  sitting  and 
drinking  wine,  etc.  In  the  city  of  Sumbeditha  thieves  once  intruded  into  a 
house,  etc.  When  an  army  enters  a  town  in  time  of  peace  etc.  He  who 
sells  his  wine  to  a  heathen  is  allowed  to  use  the  money,  etc.  Rabh  told  the 
Jewish  wine-dealers  to  have  their  heathen  customers  pay  in  advance,  etc. 
Once  an  Israelite  said  to  his  neighbor:  "When  I  make  up  my  mind  to  sell 
this  field,  I  will  sell  it  to  you."  Later  on  he  sold  it  to  a  third  party,  etc. 
An  Israelite  once  said  to  his  neighbor:  "  When  I  make  up  mind  to  sell 
this  field,  I  will  sell  it  to  you  for  a  hundred  suz,  etc.  If  the  funnel  was 
first  used  to  measure  through  it  into  the  heathens  flask,  etc.  Devoted  wine 
is  prohibited,  and  renders  unallowable  even  by  a  minimal  quantity.  If  for- 
bidden wine  falls  into  a  reservoir,  and  simultaneously  a  pitcher  of  water, 
etc.  This  is  the  rule:  "When  the  two  are  of  the  same  kind;  a  minimal 
quantity  sufifices,  etc.  For  how  long  must  the  utensils  remain  glowing  in 
fire,  etc.    "  A  knife  is  cleansed  even  by  grinding  it." 


TRACT  ABUDA  ZARA  (IDOLATRY). 


CHAPTER   I. 

RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  TRANSACTION  OF  BUSINESS 
WITH  HEATHENS  ON  THEIR  FESTIVAL  DAYS;  WHICH  FESTIVALS 
ARE  CONSIDERED,  AND  WHAT  REAL  ESTATE  MAY  BE  SOLD  AND 
RENTED,    AND    AT    WHAT    PLACES. 

MISHNA  /. :  Three  days  before  the  festivals*  of  the  heath- 
ens it  is  forbidden  to  have  any  business  with  them.  One  must 
not  lend  them  anything  (which  can  be  useful  to  them)  nor  bor- 
row such  from  them.  And  the  same  is  the  case  with  cash 
money,  even  to  pay  or  to  receive  payment  is  forbidden.  R. 
Jehuda,  however,  maintains:  To  receive  payment  is  allowed, 
because  it  is  a  displeasure  to  the  payers.  And  he  was  answered: 
Although  it  is  now  a  displeasure,  it  pleases  them,  in  the  future. 

GEMARA:  R.  Hanina  b.  Papa,  according  to  others,  R. 
Simlai,  lectured:  In  the  future,  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
will  take  the  Holy  Scroll  in  hand,  saying:  "He  who  was  occu- 
pied with  it  shall  appear  and  receive  his  reward."  The  nations 
then  at  once  will  gather  themselves  and  come  motley  crowded 
as  it  reads  [Is.  xliii.  9]:  "All  the  people  were  gathered  to- 
gether." The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  however,  tells  them: 
"  Do  not  enter  in  such  confusion,  but  let  each  nation  with  her 
scribes  enter  separately,"  as  it  reads  further  on:  "  Let  the  peo- 
ple f  be  assembled."  And  by  the  term  people  kingdoms  are 
meant.     [Can  there  be  such  a  thing  as  motley  before  the  Holy 

*  The  term  for  festivals  in  the  ^l\shi\a.,\s  "  Aide  ken"  and  Rabh  and  Samuel 
arc  discussing  this  term  at  some  length.  According  to  one  it  is  Aide  hen  and  means 
misfortune  while  to  the  other  it  is  '' Ediken"  and  means  "witnesses."  It  is 
because  the  sages  of  the  Mishna  hesitate  to  name  the  holidays  of  the  idolaters  with 
the  term  "  festivals."  We,  however,  deem  it  not  necessary  to  translate  this  discussion, 
as  it  is  unimportant. 

f  The  term  for  people  here,  is  Leum  and  by  an  analogy  of  expression  it  is 
inferred  to  mean  kingdom. 

X 


3  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

One,  blessed  be  He?  It  means  they  themselves  shall  not  come 
in  confusion,  so  that  they  shall  understand  what  will  be  said  to 
them.]  The  kingdom  of  Rome  will  then  enter  first  on  account 
of  its  greatness.  As  concerning  it  [Dan.  vii.  23]:  "And  will 
devour  all  the  earth,  and  will  tread  it  down,  and  grind  it  up." 
And  R.  Jochanan  said:  Rome  is  thereby  meant,  whose  fame  is 
respected  throughout  the  whole  world.  But  whence  do  we 
know  that  the  more  distinguished  come  first  to  judgment?  It 
is  as  R.  Hisda  said  (Rosh  Hashana,  p.  13).  The  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  questioned  her:  "  What  was  your  occupation  in 
the  world?"  To  which  she  answered:  "  Lord  of  the  Universe! 
we  have  established  many  markets,  we  have  constructed  many 
bath-houses,  we  have  multiplied  in  great  mass  gold  and  silver, 
and  all  this  was  done  for  the  sake  of  Israel,  to  enable  them  to 
study  the  Law."  The  Lord's  answer  will  be:  It  is  foolish  of 
ye  to  state  that  all  you  have  done  was  for  the  sake  of  Israel, 
while  in  reality  it  was  but  for  yourselves.  The  construction  of 
markets  was  for  the  purpose  of  prostitution.  The  establishment 
of  bath-houses  was  for  your  own  pleasure,  and  as  to  gold  and 
silver,  it  is  mine,  as  [Hos.  ii.  8] :  "  Mine  is  the  silver,  mine," 
etc.  But,  are  there,  then,  among  ye  those  who  have  studied 
the  Law?     They  went  out  in  despair. 

After  Rome  has  departed,  Persia  enters.  Because  she  is 
considered  second  to  Rome,  as  [Dan.  vii.  5]:  "And  behold, 
there  was  another,  a  second  beast,  like  a  bear."  To  which  R. 
Joseph  taught :  Thereby,  Persia  is  meant,  the  people  of  which 
are  fleshy  like  bears,  eat  and  drink  like  bears,  are  overgrown 
with  hair,  and  have  no  rest,  like  bears.  And  to  the  question  of 
the  Holy  One,  "  What  was  your  occupation?"  They  will  an- 
swer: We  have  constructed  many  bridges,  conquered  many 
great  cities,  we  were  engaged  in  many  wars,  all  for  the  sake  of 
Israel  to  enable  them  to  study  the  Law.  The  reply  to  which 
will  be:  "  All  that  was  done  by  you  was  for  your  own  sake." 
Bridges,  for  the  collection  of  duties.  Great  cities,  to  establish 
angaria.  And  as  to  wars,  I  have  conducted  them.  As  it  reads 
[Ex.  XV.  3] :  "  The  Eternal  is  the  lord  of  war."  But  are  there 
among  ye  those  who  have  studied  this  Law?  And  they  also 
went  out  in  despair.  [But,  why  did  Persia  enter,  after  seeing 
that  Rome  was  disappointed?  They  thought:  We  may  have 
more  chance  than  Rome,  as  the  latter  has  destroyed  the  holy 
Temple,  while  we  have  rebuilt  it.]  And  a  similar  answer  will 
be  given   to  the    other   nations.      But  why  should   the   other 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  3 

nations  enter  after  seeing  the  disappointment  of  the  first  two? 
They  thought :  The  first  two  made  slaves  of  Israel,  which  was 
not  the  case  with  them.  But,  if  so,  why  should  Rome  and 
Persia  be  more  honored  than  the  other  nations?  They  are  dis- 
tinguished by  the  permanence  of  their  kingdoms,  which  will 
exist  until  the  time  of  Messia.  Finally  they  will  say  before 
Him :  Lord  of  the  Universe,  didst  thou  give  us  the  Torah  and 
we  did  not  accept  it?  But  how  could  they  say  so?  Is  it  not 
written  [Deut.  xxxiii.  2]:  "The  Lord  came  from  Sinai,  and 
rose  up  from  Sa'ir  unto  them:  he  shone  forth  from  Mount 
Paran."  And  it  also  reads  [Habak.  iii.  3] :  "  (When)  God  from 
Theman  came,  and  the  Holy  One  from  Mount  Paran."  And 
to  the  question:  What  has  the  Law  to  do  in  Sa'ir  and  Paran? 
Said  R.  Jochanan:  From  this  it  is  inferred  that  the  Lord  has 
presented  his  Torah  to  every  nation,  but  it  was  not  accepted 
until  it  came  to  Israel.  Therefore,  it  is  supposed  that  they  said 
to  Him:  "  Have  we  then  accepted  the  Torah,  and  not  fulfilled 
its  commandments?"  [But  what  answer  is  this.  Could  they 
not  be  accused  because  they  have  not  accepted  it?]  They  said 
thus:  Lord  of  the  Universe,  hast  thou  inclined  the  mountain 
toward  us  as  thou  didst  toward  the  children  of  Israel?  (See 
Sabbath,  p.  167,  par.  Ex.  xix.,  etc.)  To  this  the  answer  will 
come:  "  Let  the  former  things  shew  us."  [Isaiah  xliii.  9]  The 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will  say  to  them:  "  The  seven  com- 
mandments which  were  given  to  the  descendants  of  Noah,  have 
ye  observed  them?  "  And  whence  do  we  know  that  they  have 
not?  From  that  which  R.  Joseph  taught.  It  reads  [Hab. 
iii.  6]:  "  He  stood  forward,  and  made  the  earth  tremble;  he 
looked,  and  dispersed  nations."  What  did  He  see?  That  the 
seven  commandments  accepted  by  the  descendants  of  Noah, 
were  not  observed.  And  therefore  He  absolved  the  nations  of 
them.  Absolved.  Should  then  the  sinner  be  benefited?  Said 
Mar  b.  Rabbina:  It  means  that  even  should  they  absolve  them, 
they  would  not  be  rewarded.  Is  that  so?  Did  not  R.  Mair 
say:  "  Whence  do  we  know  that  even  a  Gentile  who  is  occupied 
with  the  study  of  the  Law,  is  likened  to  a  high-priest  from 
[Levit.  xviii.  5]  "Which  if  a  man  do,  shall  live  on  it,"  where  it 
does  not  specify  priest,  Levite,  or  Israelite,  but  states  in  general 
if  a  man,  whence  it  may  be  inferred  that  a  Gentile,  too,  who  oc- 
cupies himself  with  the  study  of  the  Law  is  equal  to  a  high- 
priest."  It  means  that  they  will  not  be  rewarded  for  the 
observance    equally   with    those   who    observe    in    accordance 


4  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

with  the  commandments.  As  R.  Hanina  said:  The  reward  for 
him  who  observes  that  which  he  is  commanded,  is  greater  than 
to  him  who  observes  same  without  being  commanded.  The 
nations  will  then  exclaim:  "Lord  of  the  Universe,  has  then 
Israel,  who  has  accepted  the  Torah,  observed  it?"  And  to  the 
answer  of  the  Holy  One:  "  I  testify  that  he  did,"  they  exclaim: 
"  Lord  of  the  Universe,  is  then  a  father  fit  to  be  a  witness  in 
the  case  of  his  son?  Is  not  Israel  called  the  son  of  the  Eternal  " 
[Ex.  iv.  22]  "  My  son,  my  first-born,  is  Israel."  He  will  then 
say:  "  Let  heaven  and  earth  testify  that  the  Torah  was  observed 
by  Israel."  They,  however,  object  in  saying  that  heaven  and 
earth  are  interested  in  this  case,  and  therefore  are  not  fit  to  be 
witnesses — viz:  [Jer.  xxxiii.  25]:  "  If  my  covenant  be  not  .  .  . 
the  appointment  with  heaven  and  earth,  would  not  be  estab- 
lished."* And  Resh  Lakish  said:  It  reads  [Gen.  i.  31]:  "  And 
it  was  evening,  and  it  was  morning,"  and  this  justifies  the  infer- 
ence that  the  Lord  made  a  stipulation  with  all  that  had  been 
created  in  the  six  days  to  the  effect  that  if  Israel  will  accept  the 
Torah,  well  and  good,  but  if  not  I  will  return  all  of  you  to  chaos 
and  ruin.  Then  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will  say:  "  Men 
of  ye  nations  may  come  and  testify  that  Israel  has  observed  the 
Torah.  Nimrod  may  testify  that  Abraham  has  not  worshipped 
idols.  Laban  may  testify  that  Jacob  was  not  suspected  of  rob- 
bery. The  wife  of  Potiphar  may  testify  that  Joseph  was  not 
suspicious  of  sin.  Nebuchadnezzar  may  testify  that  Chananyah, 
Mishael  and  Azaryah  had  not  bowed  themselves  to  the  image; 
Darius  of  Daniel,  that  he  had  not  abolished  prayer;  Eliphaz 
the  Themanite,  and  Bildad  the  Shuchite,  and  Zophar  the  Na'ama- 
thite  may  say  of  all  Israel  that  they  have  observed  all  the  Laws." 
They  will  then  exclaim:  "  Lord  of  the  Universe,  give  it  to  us 
now,  and  we  will  observe  it."  To  which  they  will  be  answered: 
"  He  who  has  prepared  on  the  Eve  of  Sabbath,  for  the  Sabbath, 
will  have  what  to  eat.  But  he  who  has  not  prepared,  what  then 
will  he  have  to  eat  on  Sabbath?  However,  I  have  one  easy, 
meritorious  act,  it  is  the  Sukka,  go  and  perform  it.  [Why  is 
it  called  easy?  Because  it  requires  no  expense.]  Everyone  of 
them,  will  then  prepare  a  Sukka  on  his  roof,  but  as  soon  as  the 
sun  heats  it,  they  abandon  it,  and  go  away.  But  did  not  Rabha 
say  that  he  who  is  afflicted  by  performing  the  command  of 
Sukka,  is  free  from  this  obligation?     Yea,  but  not  to  reject. 

*  Leeser's  translation  does  not  correspond. 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  5 

The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will  then  smile  upon  them.  Said 
R.  Itzchak:  "  There  is  no  smiling  with  the  Holy  One,  but  on 
that  day." 

There  are  others  who  taught  the  saying  of  R.  Itzchak  in  the 
following  connection :  R.  Jose  said:  In  the  future  heathens  will 
come  to  convert  themselves  with  the  Tephilin  on  their  heads 
and  arms,  tchitches  on  their  dresses,  mazuzas  on  their  doors. 
But,  as  soon  as  they  will  see  the  war  of  Gog  and  Magog,  and 
will  question  them:  "With  whom  do  you  want  to  fight?" 
Whereto  the  answer  will  be:  With  the  Lord  and  his  Messiah 
[as  it  reads  [Psalm  ii.  2]:  "Against  the  Lord  and  his  an- 
ointed"], each  of  the  nations  will  remove  the  above,  and  go 
away;  and  the  Holy  One  will  smile  upon  them.  It  is  here 
that  R.  Itzchak  said :  There  is  no  smiling  with  the  Lord,  but 
on  that  day.  But  did  not  R.  Jehudah  say  in  the  name  of 
Rabh:  There  are  twelve  hours  in  a  day,  three  hours  of  which 
the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  is  occupied  with  the  Torah.  The 
next  three  hours.  He  judges  the  whole  world,  and  seeing  that  it 
is  liable  to  be  destroyed.  He  rises  from  the  chair  of  judgment 
and  sits  down  on  the  chair  of  mercy.  The  third  three  hours, 
He  supports  the  whole  world  with  food,  from  the  very  largest 
creature  to  the  smallest  one.  And  the  last  three  hours,  He 
plays*  with  the  leviathan,  as  it  reads  [Psalm  civ.  26]:  "  Levi- 
athan, whom  thou  hast  made  to  sport  therein."  Said  R.  Nach- 
man  b.  Itzchak:  "  With  His  creatures  He  smiles,  but  not  upon 
them,"  R.  Aha  said  to  R.  Nachman:  There  is  no  smiling  by 
the  Holy  One,  since  the  Temple  was  destroyed.  As  it  reads 
[Is.  xlii.  14]. t  But  in  the  fourth  three  hours,  he  teaches  the 
Torah  to  the  school-children.  As  it  reads  [ibid,  xxviii.  9]: 
"  Whom  shall  he  teach  knowledge?  And  whom  shall  he  give  to 
understand  doctrine?  (to)  those  that  are  weaned  from  the  milk, 
(to)  those  that  are  taken  from  the  breasts."  And  what  does  He 
do  in  the  night-time?  If  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  He  does 
the  same  as  in  the  day-time.  And  if  you  wish,  it  may  be  said 
that  He  rides  upon  His  light  cloud  and  moves  in  all  directions 
upon  18,000  worlds.  As  it  reads  [Psalm  Ixviii.  18]:  "The 
chariots  of  God  are  two  myriads;  thousands  of  angels  (follow 
him)."     And  if  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  He  is  sitting  and 


*  The  term  for  this  word  is  sKhok,  which  means  both  sport  and  smile,  hence  the 
objection. 

f  The  translation  of  this  verse  does  not  correspond  at  all,  it  is  therefore  of  no 
use  to  quote  it. 


6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

listening  to  the  song  of  the  angels,  as  [ibid.  xlii.  9]:  "  And  in 
the  night  his  song  shall  be  with  me." 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  It  reads  [Hab. 
i.  14]:  "  And  (why)  makest  thou  men  as  the  fishes  of  the  sea, 
as  the  creeping  things,  that  have  no  ruler  over  them? "  Why- 
are  men  compared  with  fish  of  the  sea?  To  wit:  even  as  the 
fish  die  as  soon  as  they  are  taken  on  land,  so  do  men  die  when 
they  separate  themselves  from  the  law  of  the  Torah.  Another 
explanation :  as  fish  die  from  the  strong  heat  of  the  sun,  so  also 
do  men.  If  you  wish  it  may  be  said  in  this  world,  and  this  would 
be  in  accordance  with  R.  Hanina,  who  said:  "  Everything  is  de- 
creed by  heaven,  except  cold  "  (see  Middle  Gate,  p.  285).  And 
if  you  wish  it  may  be  said,  in  the  world  to  come,  and  this  is  in 
accordance  with  Resh  Lakish,  who  says :  There  is  no  Gehenna 
in  the  future.  But  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will  take  out 
the  sun  from  its  sheath.  The  wicked  will  be  punished  with  its 
heat,  and  the  upright  be  cured  by  it.  As  it  reads  [Malachi,  iii. 
19]:  "  For,  behold,  the  day  is  coming,  which  shall  burn  as  an 
oven ;  and  all  the  presumptuous,  yea,  and  all  who  practice 
wickedness  shall  be  stubble:  and  the  day  that  is  coming  shall 
see  them  on  fire,  .  .  .  who  will  not  leave  them  root  or  bough. 
(20)  But  there  shall  rise  unto  you  that  fear  my  name,  the  sun 
of  righteousness  with  healing  in  his  wings."  Furthermore,  the 
latter  will  have  pleasure  and  become  fat  from  it,  as  the  end 
reads,  "  And  ye  will  go  forth,  and  grown  fat  as  calves  of  the 
stall." 

There  is  another  explanation,  "  as  fish  in  the  sea,"  the  larger 
one  swallows  the  smaller,  so  also  is  it  with  men,  since  if  not  for 
the  fear  for  government  the  stronger  would  swallow  the  weaker. 
And  this  is  what  a  Mishna  states:  "  Pray  for  the  peace  of  the 
government,"  etc.     (See  Aboth,  p.  72.) 

R.  Hinna  b.  Papa  propounded  a  contradiction  to  the  follow- 
ing [Job,  xxxvii.  23]:  "  The  Almighty  we  do  not  find  him  out 
excellent  in  power."*  And  [Ex.  xv.  6]:  "Thy  right  hand, 
O  Lord,  is  become  glorious  in  power."  And  also  [Psalm  cxlvii. 
5]:  "  Great  is  our  Lord,  and  abundant  in  power"  ?  This  pre- 
sents no  difficulty:  At  the  time  of  judgment.  He  does  not  use 
his  might;  but  in  time  of  war.  He  uses  it. 

Rabha  said  [Job,  xxx.  24] :  "  But  doth  not  a  man  stretch  out 


*  Leaser's  translation,  according  to   the  sense,  does   not  correspond   with  the 
Talmud  who  takes  it  literally. 


TRACT    ABUDA   ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  7 

his  hand  among  ruins  ?  or  doth  one  not  cry  out  therefrom  when 
he  meeteth  his  downfall?"  So  said  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be 
He,  to  Israel.  By  judging  Israel,  I  do  not  treat  them  in  the 
same  manner  as  I  do  heathens,  which  is  mentioned  in  [Is.  xxi. 
32]:  "Overthrown,  overthrown.  ...  I  will  render  it."  But 
I  punished  them  as  the  picking  of  a  chicken.  And  according  to 
others:  "  Even  if  Israel  do  but  small  good  deeds,  as  the  picking 
of  chickens  in  the  dunghill,  I  will  combine  them  into  one  large 
sum."  Another  explanation:  "I  help  them  because  of  their 
praying  to  me.  And  this  is  what  R.  Aba  said:  It  reads  [Hos. 
vii.  13]:  "Though  I  desired  to  redeem  them,  they  yet  spoke 
lies  against  me."  I.e.,  I  thought:  I  will  redeem  them  by  loss 
of  money  in  this  world,  for  the  purpose  of  rewarding  them  in 
the  world  to  come.  And  they  told  lies  about  me.  And  the 
same  said  R.  Papa  in  the  name  of  Rabha:  The  inferring  it  from 
[ibid.,  ibid.  15]. 

R.  Abuhuh  introduced  R.  Safra  to  the  minim  (who  were  ap- 
pointed by  the  government  to  collect  duties)  as  a  great  man. 
And  they  freed  him  from  duty  for  thirteen  years.  Once  they 
met  him  and  asked  him  to  explain  the  following  [Amos,  iii.  2] : 
"  Only  you  have  I  loved  out  of  all  the  families  of  the  earth: 
therefore  will  I  visit  upon  you  all  your  iniquities."  If  one  is 
in  bad  humor,  will  he  let  it  out  on  his  friend?  He  kept  silent, 
as  he  was  ignorant  of  the  answer.  And  they  inflicted  upon  him. 
R.  Abuhuh  then  met  them,  to  ask  for  the  reason.  And  they 
answered:  You  introduced  him  as  a  great  man,  while  he  does 
not  even  know  the  explanation  of  a  passage.  Rejoined  he:  "I 
told  you  he  was  a  scholar,  but  did  I  say  that  he  was  a  master  in 
the  study  of  the  Bible?"  And  to  their  question:  Why  2.x  t  you 
familiar  with  it?  He  answered:  "  Because  we  have  to  discuss 
with  you  frequently,  we  give  our  attention  to  it."  They  say: 
It  is  for  you,  then,  to  explain  the  above-mentioned  passage. 
And  he  answered  thus :  I  will  do  it  in  the  form  of  a  parable. 
There  was  once  a  creditor  of  two  persons,  one  a  friend,  and  the 
other  an  enemy  of  his.  From  his  friend,  he  demands  to  be  paid 
in  small  sums,  while  from  his  enemy  he  demands  the  whole  debt 
at  once.  (And  the  same  is  the  case  with  Israel :  He  clears  them 
of  all  their  iniquities  by  small  punishments  in  this  world,  so  that 
they  shall  not  have  to  suffer  in  the  world  to  come.) 

The  rabbis  taught:  The  Lord  becomes  angry  every  day,  but 
only  during  one  instant,  which  is  the  fifty-three  thousand 
eight  hundred  and  forty-eighth  part  in  one  hour;  and  there  is 


8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

no  creature  in  the  world  who  is  able  to  guess  this  moment,  ex- 
cept Bil'am,  about  whom  it  reads  [Numb.  xxiv.  i6] :  "  Knoweth 
the  knowledge  of  the  Most  High."  Which  means  that  he  knew 
how  to  guess  the  second  in  which  the  Lord  becomes  angered. 
(See  Sanhedrin,  p  339.) 

R.  Joseph  said:  It  is  advisable  for  one  not  to  pray  singly  the 
additional  benediction  in  the  first  three  hours  at  the  first  day  of 
new  year,  for,  the  heavenly  judgment  takes  place  at  that  time, 
and  because  of  his  praying  attention  may  be  given  to  his  deeds, 
and  he  may  get  an  unfavorable  decree.  But  if  so,  one  should 
not  do  it  even  with  the  congregation  together?  With  the  con- 
gregation is  different,  as  the  attention  is  given  to  their  deeds  in 
average.  But  was  it  not  said  above  that  in  the  first  three  hours 
the  Lord  is  engaged  in  the  Law?  Yea,  however,  by  the  Torah, 
in  which  truth  is  mentioned  [Prov.  xxiii.  23]:  "  Buy  the  truth," 
judgment  cannot  be  modified.  But  concerning  judgment,  truth 
is  not  mentioned,  and  therefore  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
modifies  it. 

R.  Joshua  b.  Levi  said  [Deut.  vii.  11]:  "  Which  I  command 
thee  this  day,  to  do  them,"  means  to  do  it  to-day,  but  not  to  be 
rewarded  for  it  to-day.  He  said  again:  "  All  the  performance  of 
the  commandments  which  Israel  observed  in  this  world,  will 
come  and  testify  for  them  in  the  world  to  come. "  He  said  again  : 
The  crime  of  the  golden  calf  was  committed  only  to  give  a  chance 
to  the  repenter.  As  it  reads  [ibid.  v.  26]:  "  Who  would  grant 
that  this  their  heart  might  remain  in  them  to  fear  me  at  all  times. ' ' 
(Hence,  they  were  not  fit  to  commit  a  crime.)  Similarly  said  Jo- 
hanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Jo'hai :  David  was  not  fit  to 
commit  the  crime  with  Bath  Shaba,  as  concerning  him  it  reads 
[Psalm,  cviii.  22]:  "  My  heart  is  deeply  wounded  within  me." 
And  also  Israel  was  not  fit  for  the  above  crime,  for  the  reason  said 
above.  And  why  was  it  committed?  For  the  benefit  of  sinners. 
If  it  happens  to  be  an  individual,  it  maybe  said  to  him:  Re- 
pent, as  the  individual  David  did.  And  if  it  happens  to  be  a 
congregation,  they  also  may  be  told  to  repent,  as  the  congrega- 
tion of  the  desert  did.  And  this  is  what  R.  Samuel  b.  Nach- 
man  in  the  name  of  Jonathan  said:  It  reads  [II  Sam.  xxiii.  i]  : 
"  And  thus  saith  the  man  who  was  raised  up  on  high  "  (the 
term  in  Hebrew  for  high  is  ol,  which  means  also  yoke),  and  is  to 
be  interpreted  thus:  The  man  who  had  raised  the  yoke  of  re- 
pentance The  same  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  author- 
ity: When  one  performs  a  meritorious  act  in  this  world,  it  pre- 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  9 

cedes  him  in  the  world  to  come.  As  it  reads  [Is.  Iviii.  8] : 
"  And  before  thee  shall  go  thy  righteousness,  the  glory  of  the 
Lord  shall  be  thy  reward."  And  the  same  is  the  case  with  him 
who  commits  a  crime  in  this  world,  that  it  clings  to  him  and 
goes  before  him  on  the  day  of  judgment.  As  it  reads  [Job, 
vi.  18].* 

The  rabbis  taught :  Concerning  the  above-cited  verse  [Deut. 
V.  26] :  Moses  said  to  Israel :  Ye  are  ungrateful  my  children,  as 
at  the  time,  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  said  to  you:  "  Who 
would  grant,"  etc.,  ye  ought  to  say:  Thou,  Lord,  grant  it  to 
us.  Your  ungratefulness  is  also  marked  from  [Numb.  xxi.  5]: 
"  And  our  soul  loathed  this  miserable  bread."  Ye  are  also  chil- 
dren of  an  ungrateful,  as  it  reads  [Gen.  iii.  12]:  "  The  woman 
whom  thou  gavest  to  be  with  me,  she  gave  me  of  the  tree,"  etc. 
Moses,  however,  hinted  this  to  Israel  only  after  the  forty  years 
in  which  he  led  them  in  the  desert.  As  in  respect  of  that  time 
it  reads  [Deut.  xxix.  3] :  "  And  yet  the  Lord  gave  you  not  a 
heart  to  perceive,"  etc.  Said  Rabha:  "  Infer  from  this  that  one 
cannot  know  the  real  mind  of  his  master,  until  the  elapse  of 
forty  years." 

R.  Johanan  said  in  the  name  of  R.  B'naha:  It  reads  [Is. 
xxxii.  20]:  "  Happy  are  ye  that  sow  beside  all  waters,  freely 
sending  forth  the  feet  of  the  ox  and  the  ass."  Happy  is  Israel 
at  the  time  when  he  is  occupied  with  the  Torah  and  with  be- 
stowing of  favors ;  as  his  evil  spirit  is  then  transferred  into  his 
hands,  and  not  vice  versa.  And  this  is  inferred  from  the  just- 
cited  verse,  "  that  sow,"  which  means  charity,  as  [Hos.  x.  12]. 
And  "  by  water"  it  means  the  Torah,  as  in  [Is.  Iv.  i]  means 
the  Torah.  And  "  by  freely  sending  forth,"  etc.,  is  meant, 
what  the  disciple  of  Elijah  taught.  One  should  always  consider 
himself  in  his  relation  to  the  laws  of  the  Torah,  as  an  ox  to  its 
yoke,  and  an  ass  to  its  load. 

"  Three  days''  etc.  Is  such  a  long  time  needed?  Does  not 
a  Mishna  state:  At  four  periods  in  the  year,  he  who  sells  a  cow 
to  his  neighbor  must  notify  him  thus:  I  have  sold  her  mother 
or  her  daughter  to  be  slaughtered.  (It  is  biblically  forbidden  to 
slaughter  the  mother  and  her  child  on  one  and  the  same  day), 
and  they  are:  the  Eve  of  the  second  festival  of  Tabernacles,  the 
Eve  of  the  first  day  of  Passover,  the  Eve  of  Pentecost,  and  the 
Eve  of  New  Year.     According  to  R.  Jose  the  Galilean:  Also 

*  We  do  not  quote  the  passage,  as  the  translation  of  it  does  not  at  all  correspond. 


10  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  Eve  of  the  day  of  Atonement  in  GaHlee.  (Hence,  we  see 
that  only  one  day  is  sufificient.)  Where  eating  is  treated  of, 
one  day  suffices,  but  where  sacrificing  is  treated  of  three  days 
are  needed.  Are,  then,  three  days  sufficient  for  sacrificing?  Is 
there  not  a  rule  that  thirty  days  before  Passover  are  needed  to 
study  the  laws  of  this  festival?  Concerning  our  sacrifices,  which 
even  a  blemish  in  the  eye-lash  makes  invalid,  thirty  days  are 
needed  for  studying  the  Law.  But  concerning  the  heathens, 
that  only  a  missing  limb  of  an  animal  makes  it  invalid.  But  not 
a  blemish,  three  days  suffice. 

The  schoolman  propounded  a  question  as  to  whether  or  not 
the  statement  of  the  Mishna,  "  three  days,"  include  the  festival 
dayalso?  Come  and  hear.  R.  Ismael  said :"  Three  days  before 
and  three  days  after  their  festivals."  Now,  should  it  mean  to 
include  the  festival  day,  would,  then,  R.  Ismael  count  it  twice, 
to  the  first  and  to  the  last  days?  This  is  no  objection,  as  the 
number  three,  mentioned  last,  may  be  used  merely  because  of 
the  first.  Come  and  hear  the  following:  R.  Tachlipha  b.  Ab- 
dimi  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  If  their  festival  occurs  in  the 
middle  of  the  week,  it  is  forbidden  to  do  business  with  them  the 
whole  week.  Now,  if  that  day  were  included,  one  day  of  the 
week  would  be  allowed.  There  is  no  question,  according  to  R. 
Ismael,  as  he  certainly  excludes  that  day,  but  how  is  it  the 
question  is  according  to  the  rabbis?  Come  and  hear:  The  fol- 
lowing are  the  festivals  of  the  heathens:  kalends,  Saturnalia  and 
kratsim.  And  R.  Hanin  b.  Rabha  said:  Kalends  occurs  eight 
days  after  the  solstice,  and  the  Saturnalia  eight  days  before. 
Now,  if  the  festivals  were  included,  it  would  be  said  ten  days? 
Perhaps  the  Tana  counts  the  whole  festival  of  kalends  for  one 
day.  Said  R.  Ashi:  From  the  expression  of  the  Mishna,  "  be- 
fore," it  maybe  inferred  that  it  means  to  exclude  the  day  in 
question.  For  if  not,  it  would  state  three  days  of  their  festivals, 
etc.     Infer  from  this  that  so  it  is. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  Is  this  forbidden  be- 
cause a  Jew  must  not  interfere  with  the  idols,  or  because  of  the 
commandment,  "  Thou  shalt  not  put  a  stone  for  the  blind"  ? 
And  the  difference  is  in  whether  or  not  the  heathen  has  his  own 
animal  for  sacrificing.  If  because  of  interfering,  it  is  forbidden, 
but  if  because  of  the  latter,  it  is  not,  as  he  has  his  own.  But 
even  if  he  has  his  own,  the  above  negative  rests  upon  him, 
as  R.  Nathan  states  in  a  Boraitha :  Whence  do  we  know  that 
one  must  not  serve  a  goblet  of  wine  to  a  Nazerite  nor  a  member 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  ii 

of  a  live  animal  to  a  descendant  of  Noah?  from  [Levit.  xix.  14], 
**  Nor  put  a  stumbling-block  before  the  blind."  We  see  then, 
that  though  these  two  would  each  take  the  forbidden  even  if  not 
offered,  nevertheless  he  who  serves  therewith  commits  a  trans- 
gression, it  speaks  of  a  case  when  the  two,  giver  and  receiver, 
are  separated,  by  e.g.,  a  river,  so  that  if  not  served  he  could  not 
take  it  himself;  and  the  word  serve  instead  of  give  seems  to  cor- 
roborate this  view.  The  schoolman  propounded  another  ques- 
tion: How  is  it  if  he  had  done  business  with  him  in  the  pro- 
hibited days?  According  to  R.  Johanan:  The  benefit  which 
he  derived  from  the  business  is  forbidden,  and  according  to 
Resh  Lakish,  it  is  not.  Resh  Lakish  objected  to  R.  Jochanan 
from  the  following:  In  the  festivals  of  heathens,  if  one  had 
business  with  them,  the  derived  benefit  is  forbidden.  We 
see  that  thus  the  festivals,  as  such  are  meant,  but  not  the 
time  before.  R.  Jochanan,  however,  maintains:  That  in  the 
expression  "  festivals  "  the  days  before  are  also  meant. 

There  is  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  Resh  Lakish:  The 
prohibition  to  do  business  with  them  refers  only  to  a  thing  which 
can  be  kept  in  good  order  until  the  festival  day,  but  not  other- 
wise. And  even  concerning  the  former,  if  it  was  already  done, 
the  benefit  is  allowed. 

R.  Zabid  taught  in  a  Boraitha  of  R.  Osia:  A  thing  which 
cannot  be  kept  in  good  order  may  be  sold  to,  but  not  bought 
from,  them.  There  was  a  minn  who,  in  his  festival,  sent  a  new 
dinar  to  R.  Jehudah  the  second.  Resh  Lakish  was  then  at  the 
latter's  house,  and  Jehudah  consulted  him  as  to  the  acceptance 
of  it.  If  he  accepted  he  would  transgress  the  rule  of  interfer- 
ing, while  his  refusal  would  cause  animosity.  Said  Resh  Lakish 
to  him:  Accept,  and  throw  it  away  in  the  presence  of  the  donor. 
To  which  R.  Jehudah  rejoined:  Then  I  will  cause  still  more 
animosity.  Rejoined  Resh  Lakish :  I  mean  that  you  should 
throw  it  in  such  a  manner  that  he  should  think  it  was  done  un- 
intentionally. 

To  lend  them  or  to  borrow.''  The  prohibition  to  lend  them 
is  correct,  because  it  pleases  them.  But  why  is  it  forbidden  to 
receive  payment  from  them ;  does  it  not  diminish  their  property? 
Said  Abai:  If  it  were  permitted  to  receive  from  them,  one  would 
be  led  also  to  lend  them.  Rabha,  however,  maintains:  Both 
are  prohibited  only  because  of  interfering. 

''Because  it  is  a  displeasure."  Does  not  R.  Jehudah  hold 
the  view :  That  it  pleases  him  in  the  future.     We  have  heard 


12  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

him  say  elsewhere  that  he  upholds  such  a  theory  concerning 
Jewish  festivals?  Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itzchak:  Leave  alone 
the  Halakhas  of  minor  festivals,  as  they  are  allowed  only  upon 
the  basis  of  "  it  pleases  him  in  the  future,  although  it  is  a  dis- 
pleasure to  him  while  performing  it."  Rabbina,  however,  main- 
tains :  A  heathen  is  always  displeased  at  a  payment.  Our  Mishna 
is  not  in  accordance  with  R.  Joshua  b.  Karcha  of  the  following 
Boraitha,  who  said:  If  the  lender  had  a  document,  he  must  not 
receive  payment  at  that  day.  But  if  it  was  a  verbal  loan,  he 
may,  as  it  is  a  rescue.  (Here  is  repeated  from  the  First  Gate, 
229  par.,  "  R.  Jehudah  says,"  to  p.  30  next  par.)* 

MISHNA  //. :  R.  Ismael  said:  Three  days  before  and  three 
days  after  it  is  prohibited.  The  sages,  however,  say:  Before 
the  festivals,  but  not  after  them. 

GEMARA:  What  new  views  do  the  sages  of  this  Mishna 
advance.  Was  same  not  said  by  the  first  Tana  of  the  first 
Mishna?  They  differ  in  what  was  said  by  Samuel :  "  In  exile,  the 
prohibition  refers  to  the  day  of  the  festival  only."  The  first 
Tana  upholds  the  theory  of  Samuel,  which  the  sages  of  the  lat- 
ter Mishna  do  not.  It  may  also  be  said  that  they  differ  in  that 
which  was  said  by  Na'hum  the  Modaite.  The  prohibition  is 
imposed  only  upon  one  day  before  their  festival.  And  in  this 
case,  the  Tana  of  the  first  Mishna  does  not  agree  with  him, 
while  the  sages  of  the  second  do.  There  is  a  Boraitha  which 
states  that  as  regards  the  decision  of  Na'hum  the  Modaite,  it 
was  said:  It  is  better  that  such  should  be  dropped  and  not  re- 
peated. There  is  another  Boraitha;  Na'hum  the  Modaite  said: 
An  old  male  horse  may  be  sold  to  them  in  case  of  war.  And 
he  was  also  answered :  Such  may  be  dropped,  etc.  And  there 
is  another  Boraitha:  That  the  same  declared  a  Halakha  concern- 
ing tithe,  seeds  and  herbs,  and  was  also  answered :  It  may  be 
dropped,  etc.  Said  R.  Aha  b.  Minumi  to  Abai :  Is  it  right  that 
everything  declared  by  so  great  a  man  who  comes  into  our  coun- 
try be  annulled  by  mere  exclamation  such  as  above?  And  he 
answered:  There  is  one  thing  of  the  following  Boraitha,  on 
which  we  act  according  to  his  decision — namely,  Na'hum  the 
Modaite  says:  One  may  pray  for  his  necessities  the  benediction 
of,  "  He  listens  to  prayer."  Rejoined  R.  Aba:  Leave  alone 
this  Halakha  which  relies  not  upon  Na'hum  the  Modaite  only, 

*  In  text  many  things  on  which  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehoshua 
b.  Kar'ha  are  gathered,  though  they  do  not  belong  to  this  tract  at  all  ;  and  as  all  of 
them  are  mentioned,  each  in  its  proper  place,  they  are  omitted  here. 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  13 

but  upon  the  discussion  of  great  men  in  the  following  Boraitha : 
R.  Eliezar  said:  One  should  beg  for  his  necessities  first,  and 
thereafter  he  shall  recite  the  daily  benediction.  As  [Psalms, 
cii.  i]:  "A  prayer  of  the  afflicted,  when  he  is  overwhelmed, 
and  poureth  out  before  the  Lord  his  complaint."  *  R.  Joshua, 
however,  maintains:  One  has  to  recite  his  benediction  previ- 
ously, and  thereafter  pray  for  his  necessities.  As  [Psalms,  cxlii. 
2]:  "I  poured  out  my  shicho  before  him,  I  relate  before  him  my 
trouble."     (Hence,  the  trouble  is  related  after  the  benediction.) 

Let  us  see :  The  passages  do  not  correspond  with  either  of 
them  ;  hence,  there  must  be  some  other  reason.  Wherein,  then, 
is  their  point  of  difference?  In  that  which  was  lectured  upon 
by  R.  Simlai:  It  is  advisable  for  one  to  always  arrange  the 
praises  of  the  Omnipotent  first,  and  thereafter  to  recite  the  daily 
eighteen  benedictions.  And  this  can  be  inferred  from  Moses, 
our  master  [Deut.  iii.  24]:  "Thou  hast  begun  to  show,"  etc., 
and  thereafter  (25):  "  Let  me  go  over,  I  pray  thee."  R.  Joshua 
maintains :  We  may  learn  it  from  Moses,  but  R.  Eliezar  holds 
that  we  cannot  compare  ourselves  to  Moses,  and  must  not  dare 
to  do  like  him.  The  sages,  however,  maintain  differently  from 
both:  As  according  to  them,  one  may  pray  for  his  necessities  in 
the  benediction  of,  "  He  listens  to  prayer."  Said  R.  Jehudah 
b.  R.  Samuel  b.  Shilath  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  Although  it  was 
decided  that  one  may  pray  for  his  necessities  in  the  benediction 
of  "  listen  to  prayer,"  yet  if  he  understands  how  to  express  his 
desire  at  the  end  of  each  benediction  (conjoined  in  the  daily 
eighteen  benedictions),  he  may  do  so. 

MISHNA  ///. :  The  following  are  the  festivals  of  the  heath- 
ens :  Kalends,  Saturnalia,  kratsin.  The  accession  of  their  kings 
upon  the  throne,  their  birthday,  and  the  day  of  their  death.  So 
R.  Mair.  The  sages,  however,  maintain  that  only  such  a  death 
on  which  burning  (dresses)  is  used,  is  conjoined  with  worship- 
ping the  idols.  But  in  such  on  which  it  is  not  used,  there  is  no 
idolatry.  All,  however,  agree  concerning  the  following  days: 
That  of  shaving  his  beard  and  hair,  that  in  which  he  lauds,  that 
on  which  he  was  released  from  prison,  and  that  on  which  is  cele- 
brated a  marriage  of  his  son  that  the  prohibition  concerns  only 
one  day,  and  the  only  one  man  engaged  in  this  affair. 

GEMARA :  The  rabbis  taught :  Adam  the  first,  when  he  saw 


*  The  word  complaint  is  termed  by  shicho,  which  means  "  prior  "  according  to 
the  Talmud  concerning  Isaac  in  [Gen.  xxiv.  63]  where  the  same  term  is  used. 


14  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

that  each  day  of  the  week  became  shortened,  cried :  Woe  is  to 
me,  the  world  becomes  dark  to  me  because  of  my  sin,  and  it 
seems  to  be  returned  to  chaos  and  ruin.  And  this  is  my  death 
which  was  decreed  by  heaven.  He  arose  and  fasted  and  prayed 
eight  days.  Thereafter,  when  he  lived  to  see  the  solstice  of  the 
month  of  Tabit,  when  the  days  become  longer,  he  understood 
that  such  is  the  cycle  of  the  world,  and  therefore  established 
eight  holidays.  The  next  year,  he  also  proclaimed  the  eight 
days  on  which  he  had  fasted  as  holidays.  He  has  established 
them  to  laud  heaven ;  his  descendants,  however,  made  them 
holidays  for  the  idols. 

The  rabbis  taught:  Adam  the  first,  on  the  first  day  of  his 
creation,  when  he  saw  the  sun  set,  cried :  Woe  is  to  me,  the 
world  is  to  be  returned  to  chaos,  because  of  my  sin,  etc.  He 
wept  all  night,  and  Eve  did  the  same  opposite  him.  However, 
when  the  morning  star  appeared,  he  understood  that  such  was 
the  order  of  the  world.  He  arose  and  sacrificed  an  ox,  whose 
horns  were  like  its  hoofs. 

R.  Mathna  questioned:  Are  the  small  towns  under  the  do- 
minion of  Rome  and  near  to  the  capital,  prohibited,  at  the  time 
Rome  celebrates  its  kalends,  or  not?  According  to  R.  Jehoshua 
b.  Levi,  the  festival  kalandes  is  forbidden  to  everyone.  And 
according  to  R.  Johanan,  it  is  forbidden  to  interfere  with  those 
who  worship  her  only.  There  is  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with 
R.  Johanan  as  follows:  Although  it  was  said  that  if  Rome  estab- 
lished a  kalandes^  and  all  the  near  cities  which  are  under  her 
dominion  supported  her,  the  prohibition  of  interfering  concerns 
only  its  worshippers.  On  Saturnalia,  kratsin,  the  day  of  the 
throne  and  the  day  in  which  he  ascends  to  reign,  only  one  day 
before,  interfering  is  prohibited;  but  not  the  day  after.  During 
the  celebration  of  the  son's  marriage  the  interfering  is  forbidden 
to  this  man,  and  on  that  day  only.  Said  R.  Ashi:  The  state- 
ment of  R.  Johanan  is  also  hinted  at  in  our  Mishna  by  the  expres- 
sion "  and  that  man,"  which  excludes  those  who  are  under  his 
dominion.  (Here  is  repeated  from  Aboth,  p.  94,  ^  .  R. 
Simeon  b.  Eliezar  said  the  whole  par. ;  here,  however,  it  is 
said  in  the  name  of  R.  Ismael.  (The  Gemara  adds) :  It  is  there- 
fore decided  that  if  a  heathen  invites  one  during  thirty  days 
from  his  son's  wedding,  the  invitation  being  special  to  the  wed- 
ding, or  anonymous,  it  is  considered  a  wedding  day,  and  the  in- 
terfering is  not  allowed.  At  the  elapse  of  thirty  days,  if  the 
invitation  was  specific  of  the  wedding,  it  is  so  considered;  and 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  15 

if  anonymous,  it  is  not.  Until  what  time  is  it  considered  wed- 
ding time  in  the  case  of  a  special  invitation?  Said  R.  Papa: 
Twelve  months.  And  previous  to  the  wedding,  at  what  time 
is  to  be  considered?  From  the  time  when  they  put  the  barley 
in  the  pestle  for  preparing  beer. 

"  Kratsin.*'  What  festival  is  this?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  of  Samuel :  It  is  the  day  on  which  Rome  has  established 
her  kingdom.  But  is  there  not  a  Boraitha :  Kratsin  and  the  day 
on  which  Rome  has  established  her  kingdom?  {}ii^ViZQ  kratsin 
must  be  something  else.)  Said  R.  Joseph:  Rome  has  estab- 
lished her  kingdom  twice.  Once  in  the  days  of  the  Queen 
Cleopatra  and  the  second  time  in  the  day  of  the  Greeks.  As 
R.  Dimi  told  when  he  came  from  Palestine:  Thirty-two  battles 
the  Romans  fought  with  the  Greeks,  and  could  not  conquer 
them  until  they  had  conjoined  the  Israelites  with  them,  under  the 
stipulation  that  if  the  kings  were  of  one  nation,  the  great  officers 
of  the  government  should  be  taken  from  the  others.  And  then 
the  Romans  sent  a  message  to  the  Greeks :  Until  now  we  have 
tried  to  conquer  you  by  battles,  but  now  we  will  try  to  do  it  by 
a  discussion.  We  may  ask  you,  if  one  likes  to  conjoin  a  pearl 
with  a  diamond,  which  of  them  shall  be  the  basis?  And  they 
answered :  The  pearl  to  the  diamond.  A  diamond  and  an  onyx? 
The  diamond  as  a  basis,  was  the  answer.  An  onyx  and  the 
Holy  Scrolls?  The  onyx  to  the  Holy  Scrolls,  was  the  answer. 
Then  they  sent  to  them  :  ' '  Now,  the  Holy  Scrolls  with  the  Israel- 
ites are  with  us."  (And  the  Greeks  were  conquered.)  Twenty- 
six  years  the  Romans  kept  their  promise  to  Israel,  and  thereafter 
they  failed,  and  took  the  Israelites  under  their  dominion. 
Whence  do  we  know  that  they  were  true  to  their  promise 
twenty-six  years?  From  what  was  said  by  R.  Ka'hana.  When 
R.  Ismael  b.  Jose  was  sick,  it  was  sent  to  him  that  he  should 
recite  a  few  things  which  he  related  in  the  name  of  his  father. 
And  his  answer  was  this :  A  hundred  and  eighty  years  before 
the  Temple  was  destroyed,  Rome  had  thrust  her  dominion  upon 
Israel.  Eighty  years  before  the  destruction,  it  was  decreed  by 
the  sages  that  the  land  of  the  nations  outside  of  Palestine  should 
be  subject  to  defilement.  Forty  years  before,  the  Sanhedrin 
were  exiled  from  their  place  and  settled  in  shops.  (Here  is  re- 
peated from  Sanhedrin,  p.  121,  concerning  the  establishment  of 
fine.)  The  text  says  180  years,  and  not  more?  Does  not  a 
Boraitha  state  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose  the  great:  Palestine  was 
under  the  dominion  of  Persia  430  years;  under  the  Greek,  180 


i6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

years;  the  house  of  the  Makabaius  reigned  103  years  and  the 
house  of  Herod  reigned  likewise  103  years.  Now,  according  to 
this  chronology  there  will  be  206  years  for  the  dominion  of 
Rome  over  Israel.*  Therefore,  we  must  say  that  the  26  years 
in  which  they  were  true  to  their  promise  are  not  counted  under 
their  dominion.  There  is  a  Tosephtha:  The  disciples  of  Elijah 
taught:  The  world  will  continue  for  six  thousand  years,  the  first 
two  thousand  of  which  were  a  chaos  {Tahu),  the  second  two 
thousand  were  of  Torah,  and  the  third  two  thousand  are  the 
days  of  the  Messiah,  and  because  of  our  sins  many  years  of 
these  have  elapsed,  and  still  he  has  not  come.f  Let  us  see 
from  what  time  the  two  thousand  of  Torah  are  reckoned.  Shall 
we  assume  it  to  be  the  time  when  the  Torah  was  given  to  Israel? 
Two  thousand  years  have  not  elapsed  as  yet  since.:}:  We  must 
therefore  say  that  it  means  the  time  mentioned  in  [Gen.  xii.  5] : 
"  And  the  persons  that  they  had  obtained  in  Charan."  And  it 
is  known  by  tradition  that  Abraham  was  then  fifty-two  years  of 
age.  And  from  his  fifty-second  year  until  the  Torah  was  given, 
448  years  elapsed,  and  that  number  will  complete  the  number 
of  2,000  which  were  less  at  the  time  the  Tana  taught  about  the 
2,000  years  of  wisdom. § 

' '  The  accession  to  the  throne. ' '  Whose  accession  ?  If  it  means 
the  king's,  how  should  the  following  Boraitha  be  understood? 
"  The  ascending  to  the  throne,  and  the  day  on  which  they  select 
the  king,"  which  seems  to  be  one  and  the  same.  We  must  say, 
therefore,  that  by  accession  that  of  the  king's  son  is  meant.  And 
the  objection  that  it  was  not  customary  in  Rome  the  son  should 
inherit  the  throne,  may  be  thus  meant :  That  upon  the  request  of 
the  king,  they  were  now  to  affiliate  it  to  the  son.  As  it  happened 
with  Antoninus  (the  Caesar  of  Rome),  who  said  to  Rabbi:  I 
would  like  that  Asurius,  my  son,  should  reign  after  me,  and  also 
that  Tiberius  should  be  free  from  duty.  But  I  am  aware  that  if 
I  will  ask  my  people  to  do  me  one  favor,  they  will,  but  not  two. 

*  We  do  not  quite  understand  how  to  make  out  206  years  according  to  this 
account.  Rashi's  explanation  does  not  suffice,  and  all  other  commentators  keep 
silent.  The  Gamara  itself  was  in  doubt,  concerning  this  account,  as  R.  Papa 
said  in  text.    We  have,  however,  omitted  it,  leaving  the  whole  affair  to  the  historian, 

f  There  are  a  few  lines  repeated  here  from  Sanhedrin,  p.  303,  to  which  we  could 
not  refer  because  of  the  continuation  in  text. 

X  The  reader  must  not  forget  that  this  was  said  fourteen  centuries  ago. 

§  This  account  remains  very  complicated,  notwithstanding  Rashi's  attempt  to 
explain  it.  And  as  it  seems  to  us  unimportant,  we  have  omitted  the  whole  dis- 
cussion. " 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  17 

What  have  I  to  do?  Rabbi,  who  did  not  want  to  answer  his 
question  in  words,  told  a  man  to  mount  upon  the  shoulders  of 
another  one,  and  having  given  him  a  dove,  said  to  the  other 
one,  tell  him  who  is  mounted  upon  you  to  let  the  dove  free. 
From  this  Antoninus  understood  that  he  had  to  request  his 
people  to  proclaim  his  son  king  after  him,  and  to  instruct  his 
son  that  he  should  set  Tiberius  free.  Once  the  same  said  to 
Rabbi:  The  ofificers  of  Rome  irritate  me.  (What  shall  I  do?) 
Rabbi  asked  him  to  walk  with  him  in  the  garden,  and  began  to 
tear  out  the  large  radishes  of  the  beds,  planting  smaller  ones 
instead,  by  which  Antoninus  understood  that  he  intimates  the 
necessity  of  removing  the  old  ofificers  little  by  little  and  not  all 
at  once,  so  as  to  prevent  a  rebellion.  But  why  did  not  Rabbi 
answer  him  in  words?  He  was  afraid  that  the  officers  of  Rome 
would  get  wind  of  it  and  would  harm  him.  The  same  Caesar 
had  a  daughter  by  the  name  Girah,  and  it  happened  that  she 
sinned.  Antoninus  then  sent  to  Rabbi  white  mustard,  which  is 
called  in  Aramaic  gargira  (whence  Rabbi  understood  that  some- 
thing happened  with  Girah).  He  sent  him  in  answer  a  seed  by 
the  name  of  khusbratha,  the  meaning  of  which  in  Aramaic  is 
khus  bratha  (remove  the  daughter).  Antoninus  again  sent  him 
garlic,  named  in  Aramaic  karthi,  from  which  Rabbi  understood 
that  he  questioned  him:  Shall  I  cut  off  my  child?  And  in  an- 
swer he  sent  him  lettuce,  which  is  named  chassa,  which  means 
have  mercy  with  her. 

Antoninus  used  to  send  to  Rabbi  frequently  pieces  of  pure 
gold  in  leather  sacks  covered  with  wheat.  And  to  the  objection 
of  Rabbi:  I  have  too  much  of  my  own,  he  exclaimed:  Leave 
them  to  him  who  will  substitute  thee,  that  he  shall  spend  it  to 
please  those  who  will  reign  after  me.  From  the  house  of  An- 
toninus, there  was  a  cave  which  reached  the  house  of  Rabbi, 
and  each  time  that  he  went  to  the  house  of  Rabbi  through  this 
cave,  he  would  take  with  him  two  slaves.  One  he  used  to  kill 
at  the  gate  of  Rabbi,  and  the  other  when  he  returned,  at  his 
own  gate.  He,  however,  told  Rabbi  that  at  the  time  of  his  visit 
no  one  should  be  found  with  him.  It  once  happened  that  he 
found  Hanina  b.  Hamana  with  him,  and  to  his  question :  Did  not 
I  say  that  no  one  should  be  found  with  you  during  my  visit? 
Rabbi  answered :  This  is  not  a  human  being.  Said  Antoninus 
to  Hanina:  Go  and  call  for  me  the  slave  who  sleeps  at  the  gate. 
Hanina,  however,  found  him  dead,  and  he  deliberated  what  to 
do:  shall  he  go  to  tell  him  that  he  is  dead?    There  is  a  rule  that 


i8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

one  must  not  answer  with  degradation ;  should  he  leave  him  and 
go  away?  This  would  be  a  disgrace  to  a  king.  He  therefore 
prayed,  and  the  dead  became  alive,  and  he  then  sent  him  to  his 
master.  Said  Antoninus  to  Rabbi :  I  am  aware  that  even  the 
smallest  of  you  is  able  to  bring  the  dead  to  life.  However,  I 
want  that  when  I  come  here,  I  should  not  find  a  living  soul  with 
you.  He  used  to  serve  Rabbi  in  all  his  needs,  and  he  once 
questioned  him  if  he  would  have  a  share  in  the  world  to  come. 
To  which  Rabbi  answered,  "  yea."  Said  he:  Does  it  not  read 
[Ab.  i.  i8]:  "And  there  shall  not  be  anyone  remaining  of  the 
house  of  'Eseau."  It  means  he  who  acts  like  'Eseau.  But,  it 
reads  [Ezek.  xxxii.  29]:  "  There  are  Edom,  her  kings,  and  all 
her  princes,"  etc.  The  answer  was,  it  reads  kings,  but  not  all 
her  kings.  Princes,  but  not  all  of  them.  So  also  we  have 
learned  in  the  following:  "  Her  kings,  and  not  all  of  them, 
i.e.,  exclude  Antoninus  b.  Asudius.  Her  princes  and  not  all  of 
them,  excluding  K'tiha  b.  Shalum." 

What  happened  with  the  latter?  There  was  a  Caesar  who 
disliked  the  Jews,  and  he  asked  the  advice  of  his  oflficers :  Should 
he  who  has  a  fibre  in  his  foot  cut  it  off  and  be  at  ease,  or  should  he 
leave  it  and  be  afflicted?  And  the  advice  of  them  all  was,  that 
he  should  cut  it  off  and  remain  at  rest.  K'tiha,  however,  who 
was  one  of  them,  objected,  saying:  First  you  cannot  get  rid  of 
all  the  Jews,  as  it  reads  [Zech.  ii.  10]:  "  For  as  the  four  winds 
of  the  heaven  have  I  spread  you  abroad,  saith  the  Lord."* 
And  secondly,  your  kingdom  will  be  considered  mutilated,  and 
one  that  kills  its  own  subjects.  The  king  then  said:  Thy  ad- 
vice is  true,  but  there  is  a  law  that  he  who  concurs  the  king, 
must  be  thrown  into  the  furnace.  When  they  took  him  to  be 
slain,  he  said :  I  bequeath  all  my  property  to  R.  Aqiba  and  his 
colleagues.  A  heavenly  voice  was  then  heard :  K'tiha  b.  Shalum 
has  a  share  in  the  world  to  come.  Rabbi  then  wept  and  said: 
Here  we  have  a  man  who  has  bought  his  world  in  one  moment, 
while  another  one  has  to  work  for  it  all  his  life. 

Antoninus  served  Rabbi ;  Adarkhan  (a  Persian  Prince)  served 
Rabh.  When  Antoninus  departed,  said  Rabbi:  Our  union 
broke,  and  the  same  said  Rabh  when  Adarkhan  departed. 

Unklus  b.  Klenimus  embraced  Judaism,  and  the  Caesar  sent 
militia  to  take  him.  He,  however,  persuaded  them,  and  they 
also  became  proselytes.     He  then  sent  other  militia,  warning 

*  For  the  explanation,  see  Taanith,  p.  4. 


TRACT  ABUDA   ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  19 

them  that  they  should  not  converse  with  him.  When  they  took 
him  and  were  going,  he  said  to  them :  I  will  tell  you  something; 
usually  the  torch-bearer  carries  the  light  in  front  of  the  litter, 
the  chief  lecticarius  (behind  the  litter,  carries  the  light)  for  the 
dux,  the  dux  for  the  hegemon,  the  hegemon  for  the  comes ;  but 
does  the  comes  carry  the  light  before  the  people?  And  they  an- 
swered, No.  Said  he:  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  carriet 
light  before  Israel  as  it  reads  [Ex.  xiii.  21]:  "And  the  Lortl 
went  before  them  in  a  pillar  of  cloud,"  etc.  And  they  also 
became  proselytes.  The  Caesar  then  sent  other  ones  after  him, 
telling  them  not  to  talk  to  him  at  all.  But  when  they  took 
him,  he  saw  a  mazuzah  on  the  doorpost,  and  said  to  them :  Do 
you  know  what  this  is?  They  answered:  No,  but  you  may  tell 
us.  He  then  said:  '*It  is  customary  with  a  human  king  that 
while  he  is  sitting  inside  of  his  palace  his  servants  guard  him 
outside.  With  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  it  is  the  contrary. 
His  servants  are  inside,  and  He  guards  them  from  the  outside, 
as  it  reads  [Psalm  cxxi.  8]:  "The  Lord  will  guard  thy  going 
out  and  thy  coming  in,"  etc.  Then  these  became  proselytes, 
too,  and  the  Caesar  did  not  send  any  more  after  him.  It  reads 
[Gen.  XXV.  23]:  "And  the  Lord  said  to  her,  two  nations  are 
in  thy  womb. "  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  This 
means  Antoninus  and  Rabbi,  upon  whose  tables  were  not  miss- 
ing lettuces,  cucumbers  and  radishes,  summer  as  well  as  winter. 
As  the  master  said :  The  radishes  masticate  the  food  in  the 
stomach,  lettuces  overturn  it,  and  cucumbers  extend  the  gut. 
But  have  not  the  disciples  of  Ismael  taught  that  cucumbers  are 
as  harmful  to  the  body  as  swords?  This  presents  no  difificulty, 
as  one  speaks  of  large  ones,  and  the  other  of  small  ones. 

"  The  day  of  death,*'  etc.  From  this  we  see  that  R.  Mair 
makes  no  difference  between  a  death,  to  which  burning  is,  and 
that  to  which  it  is  not,  used;  in  both  cases  as  according  to  him, 
idols  are  worshipped  there.  Hence  the  burning  is  not  a  custom  of 
the  Amorites,  which  the  Israelites  are  prohibited  from.  And  the 
rabbis  who  oppose  R.  Mair  hold  that  it  is  a  custom.  Why  then 
do  we  use  burning?  As  there  is  a  Boraitha  that  one  may  burn 
things  for  the  death  of  kings.  Therefore,  as  to  burning,  we 
must  say,  all  agree  that  it  is  not  considered  a  custom,  but  an 
act  of  honor.  The  rabbis,  however,  hold  that  worship  of  idols 
takes  place  only  in  cases  where  there  is  burning.  While  accord- 
ing to  R.  Mair,  it  is  worship  in  both  cases.  Where  do  we  find 
that  burning  is  used  for  kings?     [Jer.   xxxiv.   5]:  "In  peace 


20  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

shalt  thou  die  and  as  burnings  were  made  for  thy  fathers,"  etc. 
And  as  they  burn  for  kings,  so  also  do  they  for  princes.  What 
they  used  to  burn  upon  kings?  Their  beds  and  all  the  utensils 
which  were  used  by  the  deceased.  And  it  happened  on  the 
death  of  Raban  Gamaliel  the  elder,  that  Unclus  the  proselyte 
burned  clothing  worth  seventy  mmias  coined  in  Zur. 

"  Tlie  day  of  shaving  his  beard,'"  etc.  The  schoolman  pro- 
pounded a  question:  Does  the  Mishna  mean  the  shaving  of  his 
beard  and  the  surrounding  of  the  hair  (which  they  used  as  a 
worship  for  the  whole  year,  and  at  the  end  they  used  to  remove 
for  the  same  purpose)  or  do  they  mean  the  removing  of  the 
hair?  Come  and  hear  the  following:  The  day  of  shaving  the 
beard  and  leaving  the  hair  and  also  the  day  of  removing  it. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  There  was  still 
another  festival  in  Rome  which  occurs  once  in  seventy  years,  on 
which  they  would  make  a  well  man  ride  on  a  lame  man,  dress 
him  in  the  garments  of  Adam,  and  place  on  his  head  the  scalp 
of  R.  Ismael,  etc.  ;  on  his  neck  was  suspended  gold  of  the 
weight  of  four  znz.  And  they  cover  the  markets  with  it,  herald- 
ing before  him:  sakh  quiriphlaster.'^  The  brother  of  our  Lord 
is  a  deceiver.  (They  mean  Jacob,  the  brother  of  Eseau,  who 
deceived  the  latter  by  taking  away  the  blessing  of  Isaac  to  him- 
self.) He  who  saw  this  now  may  be  rejoiced,  as  if  not  to-day, 
he  will  not  see  it  any  more  (because  it  was  once  in  seventy 
years),  and  they  would  finish  with:  Woe  will  be  to  him  at  the 
time  the  other  will  arise.  But  why  does  not  the  Tana  of  our 
Mishna  count  this  feast?  Because  he  counts  only  what  is  usual 
each  year,  and  not  what  happens  once  in  seventy. 

R.  Hanan  b.  R.  'Hisda  or  R.  Hanan  b.  Rabha  in  the  name  of 
Rabh  said:  There  are  five  houses  of  idols;  the  house  of  Beil  in 
Babylon,  the  house  of  Nebu  in  Khursi,  of  Tharetha  in  Mapag, 
Zripha  in  Askkilon,  and  Nishra  in  Arabia.  When  R.  Dimi  came, 
he  said :  It  was  added  to  them  the  yared  of  An  Bekhi  of  Ekha  of 
the  town  of  N'dbkah.  All  these  houses  were  standard,  and 
were  worshipped  the  whole  year.  So  said  R.  'Hisda  in  the 
name  of  his  father-in-law. 

It  is  said  above,  that  according  to  Samuel :  In  exile  it  is  for- 

*  To  the  explanation  of  these  peculiar  words,  we  give  the  following  of  Jastrow 
Dictionary  :  an  alleged  proclamation  made  in  Rome  on  the  occasion  of  a  sort  of 
secular  game,  and  intended  as  a  satire  of  Eseau  (Rome)  on  his  brother  Jacob 
(Judaism).  The  interpretations  of  commentaries  (sakh  umnber  of  years  predicted 
for  the  coming  of  the  Messiah,  or  sakh  brother)  are  unsatisfactory. 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  21 

bidden  only  the  very  day  of  the  festival,  not  the  day  before  and 
after.  But  even  on  that  day  did  not  R.  Jehudah  allow  R.  Brona 
to  buy  wine  and  R.  Giddle  to  buy  wheat  in  the  festival  of  the 
merchants?     Such  a  festival  is  different,  as  it  is  not  standard. 

MISHNA  IV. :  In  a  city  where  the  idol  is  placed,  interfering 
is  forbidden  inside,  but  not  outside.  And  if  outside,  the  inside 
is  not  forbidden.  May  one  go  to  the  city  at  that  time?  If  the 
way  leads  to  the  idol  only,  it  is  forbidden,  but  if  it  leads  also 
to  another  place,  it  is  not. 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by  outside  is,  ^.^.,  the  bazaar  of 
Gaza.  Resh  Lakish  questioned  R.  Hanina:  Is  indeed  the 
bazaar  of  Gaza  permitted?  And  he  answered :  Did  it  not  hap- 
pen to  you  to  be  in  Zur  where  you  could  see  an  Israelite  and 
a  Gentile  putting  their  pots  upon  one  stove,  and  the  sages  did 
not  object.  The  same  is  the  case  with  the  bazaar  of  Gaza;  the 
sages  did  not  care  to  forbid  this  because  of  these  festivals. 

"  Maj/  one  go  to  the  city,'"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught :  A  city  in 
which  an  idol  is  placed,  one  must  not  enter,  nor  pass  from  it 
into  another  city.  So  R.  Mair.  The  sages,  however,  say :  The 
prohibition  lies  when  the  way  is  specified  to  that  place  only,  but 
not  otherwise.  If  a  thorn  sticks  in  one's  foot  at  that  place  where 
the  idol  is  standing,  he  must  not  bend  to  take  it  out,  because  it 
would  seem  as  bowing  to  the  idol;  but  if  it  does  not  seem  so, 
he  may.  And  the  same  is  the  case  if  one's  money  scattered 
near  that  place.  From  a  spring  which  runs  before  the  idol,  one 
must  not  bend  to  drink  for  the  same  reason,  unless  it  does  not 
seem  as  if  bowing  to  the  idol.  If  an  aqueduct  is  placed  in  the 
idol,  one  must  not  put  his  mouth  to  it,  as  it  would  seem  like 
kissing  it.  However,  it  is  not  advisable  to  put  one's  mouth  to 
any  duct,  as  one  may  swallow  a  leech. 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  may  not  drink  water  from  rivers  or 
ponds  either  with  his  mouth  or  with  one  hand  (as  he  cannot  dis- 
cern anything  in  it  with  both  hands ;  however,  he  can  keep  the 
water,  and  examine  it).  And  if  he  did  so,  he  would  be  respon- 
sible in  case  he  swallowed  a  leech,  which  is  dangerous,  and  this 
is  a  support  to  R.  Hanina,  who  said:  That  for  such  an  accident 
it  is  allowed  to  violate  the  Sabbath  by  warming  water;  and  also 
R.  Ne'hamaia  allowed  to  do  same  in  such  a  case.  And  R.  Huna 
b.  Jehoshua  said:  That  if  such  happened,  he  may  drink  vinegar 
until  the  water  is  warmed.  R.  Idi  b.  Abin  said:  He  who  has 
swallowed  a  bee,  cannot  be  cured.  However,  he  may  drink  some 
strong  vinegar,  perhaps  this  will  give  him  time  to  make  his  will. 


22  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

MISHNA  V.  :  If,  during  an  idol  festival  in  the  city,  some 
stores  were  there  decorated,  one  must  not  buy  from  these  stores, 
while  he  may  from  the  others,  as  such  a  case  happened  in  the 
city  of  Beth  Shean,  and  the  sages  have  so  decided. 

GEMARA:  Said  Resh  Lakish:  The  prohibition  lies  only  on 
those  which  are  decorated  with  roses  and  myrtles,  because  the 
odor  pleases  him,  but  not  to  those  which  were  decorated  with 
some  other  fruit.  And  the  reason  is  [Deut.  xiii.  i8]:  "And 
there  shall  not  cleave  to  thy  hand  aught  of  the  devoted  things." 
Which  signifies  that  it  is  prohibited  only  to  derive  any  benefit 
for  himself,  but  not  to  benefit  others.  R.  Johanan,  however, 
maintains  that  the  prohibition  lies  also  on  those  which  are  deco- 
rated with  fruit,  as  such  conclusion  can  be  drawn  a  fortiori.  If 
deriving  benefit  from  them  is  forbidden,  so  much  the  more 
should  it  be,  to  benefit  them.  An  objection  was  raised  from 
the  following:  R.  Nathan  said:  It  is  usual  in  the  day  of  the  idol 
to  herald:  everyone  who  will  decorate  his  head  and  the  heads  of 
his  animals  for  the  honor  of  the  idol  will  be  freed  from  duties 
for  such  and  such  a  time.  What  had  then  a  Jew  to  do?  Should 
he  decorate,  then  he  derives  benefit  from  the  idols;  should  he 
not,  then  he  benefits  them.  From  this  it  was  said :  He  who  is 
doing  business  in  the  market  established  for  the  idol,  his  prop- 
erty must  be  destroyed  in  such  a  manner  that  no  one  should  be 
able  to  derive  any  benefit  of  it.  We  see,  then,  that  to  benefit 
is  also  prohibited,  and  this  contradicts  Resh  Lakish's  above 
statement.  Said  R.  Mesharshia  b.  R.  Idi:  Resh  Lakish  hold 
that  the  rabbis  differ  with  R.  Nathan,  and  the  Halakha  prevails 
with  the  majority,  while  R.  Johanan  holds  that  they  do  not 
differ.  (Here  is  repeated  from  tract  Minor  Festivals  and  Abel 
Rabbathi,  which  we  deem  not  necessary  to  translate.) 

R.  Jacob  bought  shoes  on  such  a  market  day,  and  R.  Jere- 
miah bought  bread.  Each  of  them  bought  from  a  private  man, 
not  from  a  storekeeper.  However,  each  one  thought  that  his 
colleague  bought  from  a  storekeeper,  and  rebuked  each  other 
because  of  the  statement  of  Aba  b.  R.  'Higya  b.  Aba:  That  the 
prohibition  to  buy  lies  only  from  a  storekeeper,  but  not  from  a 
private,  as  a  private  does  not  pay  any  duties.  He  also  said  that 
if  R.  Johanan  were  in  such  a  place  where  they  take  duties  from 
a  private  also,  he  would  forbid  to  buy  even  from  a  private.  The 
above-mentioned  sages,  however,  bought  their  goods  from  such 
a  private  who  was  not  established  at  that  city,  and,  therefore^ 
they  were  sure  that  he  does  not  pay  duties. 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  23 

MISHNA  VI. :  The  following  are  forbidden  to  be  sold  to 
the  heathens :  Fir-cones,  white  figs  on  their  stems,  frankincense, 
and  a  white  cock.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said:  That  a  white 
cock  may  be  sold  among  other  cocks,  and  if  singly,  he  has  to 
cut  off  a  finger  of  it,  because  the  heathens  do  not  sacrifice  an 
animal  of  which  an  organ  is  missing.  All  other  things  may  be 
sold  anonymously,  but  if  they  say  that  they  buy  it  for  worship- 
ping, one  must  not  sell.  R.  Mair,  however,  forbids  to  sell  them 
fine  date  trees,  sugar-canes,  and  a  variety  of  dates. 

GEMARA:  "Frankincense,"  said  R.  Itzchak  in  the  name 
of  Resh  Lakish :  Only  the  best  frankincense  which  is  used  for 
worshipping,  and  there  is  a  Boraitha:  That  from  all  the  things 
mentioned  above,  one  bundle  maybe  sold;  and  what  is  to  be 
considered  a  bundle?  Explained  R.  Jehudah  b.  Bathyra:  No 
less  than  three  manas  worth.  But  why  not  fear  perhaps  the 
buyer  will  sell  of  it  for  worshipping?  Said  Abayi :  We  are  told 
not  to  put  a  stone  before  the  blind,  ourselves,  but  we  are  not 
told  that  we  should  fear  some  other  one  should  do  same  with 
our  stone.  (The  prohibition  is,  because  one  must  not  assist  a 
sinner,  and  worshipping  idols  is  a  sin  even  to  the  heathens.) 

"A  white  cock"  etc.  R.  Jonna  in  the  name  of  R.  Zara 
according  to  others  quoting  R.  Zebid,  said:  If  the  buyer  is 
searching  for  a  cock  anonymously,  even  a  white  one  may  be  sold 
to  him.  But  if  he  asks  for  a  white  cock,  then  such  must  not  be 
sold.  There  is  an  objection  from  our  Mishna.  R.  Jehudah 
said:  It  may  be  sold  among  others.  Now,  let  us  see  the  nature 
of  the  case.  If  the  buyer  ask  for  a  white  cock,  then  certainly  it 
must  not  be  sold  even  among  others;  we  must  then  say  that  he 
asks  for  a  cock  in  general,  and  notwithstanding  this,  is  allowed 
to  sell  it  among  the  others,  but  not  singly,  even  according  to 
R.  Jehudah.  And  according  to  the  first  Tana,  not  even  among 
the  others?  Said  R.  Nahman  b.  Itzhak:  The  Tanaim  of  our 
Mishna  speaks  of  a  case  when  the  buyer  mentioned  a  black,  red 
and  white  one.  According  to  the  first  Tana,  as  soon  as  white  is 
mentioned,  it  must  not  be  sold  even  among  others,  and  accord- 
ing to  R.  Jehudah,  it  may,  on  the  supposition  that  as  the  other 
colors  are  not  for  sacrificing,  the  white  is  not  either.  But  if 
color  was  not  mentioned  at  all,  even  according  to  the  first  Tana, 
the  white  may  be  sold  among  other  colors.  And  there  is  a  Bo- 
raitha in  accordance  with  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itzchak,  as  follows: 
R.  Jehudah  said:  The  prohibition  is  in  force  only  when  the 
buyer  says.  Sell  me  this  white  cock;  but  if  he  said,  Sell  me  this 


24  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

and  other  colors  you  have,  it  is  not.  And  even  in  the  former 
case,  if  the  buyer  has  a  sick  person  in  his  house,  or  he  is  pre- 
paring a  banquet  for  his  son,  it  is  permitted.  But  does  not  our 
Mishna  state  above:  That  in  such  a  case  that  man  as  well  as 
that  day  is  prohibited?  Said  R.  Itzchak  b.  R.  Mesharshia:  R. 
Jehudah,  by  the  word  banquet  means  a  dancing  banquet,  on 
which  sacrificing  is  not  used,  and  not  a  wedding  banquet.  R. 
Ashi  propounded  a  question  :  If  the  buyer  asks  for  a  blemished 
white  cock  (which  is  not  used  for  sacrificing),  may  one  sell  hiim 
a  good  white  cock,  or  is  it  to  be  feared  that  because  he  knows 
that  an  Israelite  would  not  sell  him  a  white  cock,  he  deceives 
him  by  asking  for  a  blemished  one;  and  should  you  decide  that 
such  is  prohibited?  Furthermore,  how  is  the  law  in  case  he 
asks  for  a  white  one  and,  nevertheless,  takes  also  a  black  and  a 
red  one;  may  one  then  sell  him  a  white  one  also,  as  it  is  to  be 
supposed  that  he  does  not  take  them  for  sacrificing;  or  here, 
also,  it  may  be  feared  that  he  bought  the  other  colors  only 
because  he  needs  the  white  one?  This  question  remains  unde- 
cided. 

"  R.  Mair  said,**  etc.  Said  R.  'Hisda  to  Abimi:  We  have 
a  tradition  that  the  tract  Aboda  Zara  of  Abraham  the  patriarch 
contained  four  hundred  chapters.  We,  however,  have  only  five 
of  them,  and  even  these  we  do  not  quite  understand.  What  is 
the  difficulty?  R.  Mair  said:  "  A  fine  date  tree,"  from  which 
it  is  to  be  understood  that  a  simple  one  may  be  sold.  And 
there  is  a  Mishna:  Nothing  must  be  sold  of  that  which  is  attached 
to  the  ground.  Answered  Abimi:  By  a"  fine  date  tree"  the 
fruit  of  it  is  meant;  and  so  also  said  R.  Huna:  e.g.,  {^Hazal 
nkshba  fiklas)  the  species  or  variety  of  dates.  When  R.  Dimi 
came  from  Palestine,  he  said  in  the  name  of  Hamma  b.  Joseph: 
Quryti  (that  which  is  fit  for  a  drink,  made  of  cariota  [cariotum]). 
Said  Abayi  to  him :  We  have  learned  nklas,  and  we  do  not  know 
what  it  is,  and  now  you  say  quryti,  and  we  do  not  know  what  it 
is  either.  Of  what  use  is  it,  then,  to  us?  And  he  answered :  If 
you  happened  to  be  in  Palestine  and  say  ttklas,  no  one  would 
understand  you,  but  if  you  said  there  quryti,  they  would  under- 
stand, and  show  you  what  it  means. 

MISHNA  VII.  :  In  places  where  it  is  customary  to  sell 
small  cattle  (sheep,  goats,  etc.)  to  heathens,  it  is  lawful  to 
do  so,  but  not  in  places  where  this  is  not  customary.  Large 
cattle  must  not  be  sold  to  them  at  all,  nor  calves  nor  foals 
of-  asses,   either   sound   or   broken-legged.       R.    Jehudah   per- 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  25 

mits  the  sale  of  the  latter,  and  Ben  Bathyra  permits  the  sale 
of  a  horse.* 

GEMARA:  From  this  Mishna  it  seems  that  it  relies  only 
upon  a  custom,  but  there  is  no  prohibition,  and  in  the  first 
Mishna  of  the  second  chapter,  we  see  that  one  must  not  place 
an  animal  in  the  inns  of  the  heathens,  etc.  Said  R.  Eleazar: 
Even  at  those  places  where  it  is  forbidden  to  place  the  animals 
in  their  inns,  it  is  allowed  to  sell  them.  As  usual  the  heathen 
takes  care  that  his  animals  should  not  be  uprooted.  And  so 
also  said  R.  Tachlipha  in  the  name  of  Shila  b.  Abimi,  quoting 
Rabh.  As  the  latter  retracted  his  first  statement  "  that  it  must 
not." 

"  Large  cattle,''  etc.  R.  Ada  permitted  to  sell  an  ass  through 
a  middleman  (also  an  Israelite).  R.  Huna  sold  a  cow  to  a  hea- 
then. Said  R. 'Hisda  to  him:  Why  did  the  master  do  so?  And 
he  answered:  Because  it  seems  to  me  that  he  bought  it  for  the 
purpose  of  slaughtering.  And  whence  do  we  know  that  such  is 
permitted?  From  (Shebiith,  v.  8),  where  the  school  of  Shamai 
says:  One  must  not  sell  a  ploughing  cow  on  the  Sabbathical 
year.  The  school  of  Hillel,  however,  permits  it,  because  one 
may  buy  it  for  slaughtering. 

Said  Rabba:  What  comparison  is  this?  Concerning  the  Sab- 
bathical year,  there  is  no  obligation  that  cattle  shall  rest  then, 
while  on  the  Sabbath  one  is  obliged  to  give  his  cattle  rest.  Said 
Abayi  to  him  :  But  where  do  we  find  that  such  is  forbidden,  even 
when  there  is  an  obligation  ?  There  is  a  Tosephta :  The  school  of 
Hillel  permits  to  sell  a  ploughing  field  in  the  Sabbathic  year,  be- 
cause it  may  be  supposed  that  one  buys  it  to  rest  this  year,  but  to 
plough  it  the  next,  and  one  is  certainly  obliged  not  to  plough 
his  field  on  the  Sabbathic  year.  R.  Ashi  opposed :  On  the  con- 
trary, there  is  a  Mishna  [Shebiith,  v.  6]:  "  Ploughing  vessels 
must  not  be  sold  on  the  Sabbathic  year,"  and  we  know  of  no 
obligation  that  one  must  give  rest  to  his  ploughing  vessels. 
And  therefore,  says  he :  When  there  is  a  supposition  that  it  can 
be  used  for  another  purpose,  we  may  do  so,  even,  when  there 
is  an  obligation ;  but  when  there  is  no  such  supposition,  it  must 
not  be  done,  even  when  there  is  no  obligation. 

Rabba  sold  an  ass  to  an  Israelite,  who  was  suspected  of  sell- 
ing it  to  a  heathen.     Said  Abayi  to  him  :  Why  have  the  masters 


*  This  Mishna  is  repeated  from  tract  Passover,  p.  go.     We  did  not  omit  because 
it  is  a  Mishna  and  because  of  the  discussions  of  the  Gemara  here. 


26  THE   BABYLONIAN  TALMUD. 

done  so?  And  he  answered:  I  sold  it  to  an  Israelite.  And  to 
Abayi's  question :  But  he  will  sell  it  to  a  heathen,  he  answered: 
Does  he  sell  to  heathens  only,  if  an  Israelite  will  give  him  a  good 
price  will  he  not  sell  it?  Abayi  then  objected  to  him  from  the 
following:  In  places  where  it  is  customary  to  sell  small  cattle  to 
Samaritans,  one  may  do  so,  but  not  in  places  where  it  is  not 
customary;  and  this  is  only  because  they  are  suspected  of  sell- 
ing it  to  the  heathens,  as  all  other  reasons  advanced  were  de- 
nied. (Hence,  we  see  that  one  must  not  sell  to  a  suspected 
one.)  Rabba  then  ran  after  him  three  miles  to  return  him,  but 
failed  to  overtake  him.  Said  R.  Dimi  b.  Aba:  As  it  is  not 
allowed  to  sell  to  a  heathen,  so  it  is  not  allowed  to  sell  to  an 
Israelite  either,  who  is  a  robber.  What  does  the  expression 
"  robber"  mean?  If  he  is  suspected  that  in  case  of  an  opposi- 
tion, he  would  slay,  then  it  is  self-evident,  for  he  is  worse  than 
a  heathen;  and  if  he  is  not  suspected  of  such,  why  not  sell  to 
him?  It  speaks  of  one  who  is  suspected  of  slaying  only,  then, 
when  the  owner  runs  after  him  to  persecute.  The  rabbis  taught: 
Shields  must  not  be  sold  to  those;  others,  however,  taught  they 
may.  The  reason  of  those  who  forbid  is,  that  if  they  are  short 
in  weapons  they  use  the  shields  instead ;  and  the  reason  of  those 
who  permit  is,  that  if  they  are  short  in  weapons  they  run  away. 
Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu  :  The  Halakha 
prevails  with  the  latter.  R.  Ada  b.  Aba  said:  Lumps  of 
wrought  iron  must  not  be  sold  to  them,  because  they  make 
weapons  of  it;  but  if  so,  should  not  spades  be  forbidden,  too? 
Said  R.  Zabid:  It  means  of  Indian  iron,  which  is  useful  for 
weapons.  And  now  that  we  do  sell  to  them  is  because  the  Per- 
sians are  protecting  us  with  their  weapons.     So  said  R.  Ashi. 

MISHNA  VIII. :  One  must  not  sell  to  them  bears,  lions, 
and  all  such  things  by  which  the  people  can  be  injured.  One 
must  not  conjoin  himself  in  building  their  court  houses  (from 
the  roofs  of  which  they  usually  throw  the  one  who  is  sentenced 
to  death,  to  be  killed),  gradus,  arenas  and  scaffolds.  However, 
in  building  monuments  and  bath-houses,  one  may.  But  when 
they  reached  that  chamber  in  which  their  idols  should  be  placed, 
he  must  stop. 

GEMARA:  Rabbina  propounded  a  contradiction.  Our 
Mishna  states:  That  only  things  which  may  be  injurious  to  the 
people,  whence  it  is  to  be  understood  that  if  not  injurious,  it 
does  not  matter,  from  the  following:  As  one  must  not  sell  to 
them  large  cattle,  so  also   must  he  not  do  with  large  beasts. 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  27 

And  even  in  those  places  where  small  cattle  may  be  sold,  large 
beasts  must  not.  (We  see,  then,  that  even  such  that  are  harm- 
less must  not  be  sold  either.)  And  he  explains  that  our  Mishna 
speaks  of  a  lame  lion,  and  it  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah, 
who  holds  that  such  may  be  sold.  R.  Na'hman  opposed:  Who 
can  say  that  the  lion  is  placed  under  the  category  of  large 
beasts;  perhaps  he  is  placed  under  the  category  of  small  ones.* 

''Himself  in  building.''  Said  Rabba  b.  b.  Hanna  in  the 
name  of  R.  Johanan:  There  were  three  such  palaces:  for  kings, 
for  bath-houses,  and  for  treasuries.  Said  Rabba:  All  of  them 
are  permitted. 

The  rabbis  taught:  When  R.  Eleazar  was  captured  by  the 
government,  accusing  him  of  being  a  inin,  he  was  brought  to 
the^r^^^j",  and  the  hegeinon  (chief  judge)  said  to  him:  A  sage 
like  yourself  should  engage  himself  in  such  a  valueless  thing. 
And  he  answered:  The  judge  himself  may  testify  that  such  is 
not  the  case.  [The  hegemon  thought  that  he  means  him ;  he, 
however,  meant  the  heavenly  judge.]  And  he  said:  Because 
you  trust  in  me,  I  swear  by  Di7nus  (his  idol)  that  you  are  free 
from  this  accusation.  When  R.  Eleazar  returned  home,  his  dis- 
ciples surrounded  him  to  condole  him,  but  he  did  not  accept  it. 
Said  R.  Aqiba  to  him :  "  Rabbi,  allow  me  to  say  before  you  one 
of  the  things  you  taught  me,"  and  he  allowed  him.  Said  he  to 
him  :  "  Rabbi,  probably  some  explanations  of  the  minim  pleased 
you  and  you  have  accepted  them,  and  therefore  you  were  sus- 
pected and  captured."  Answered  he:  "Aqiba,  you  have  re- 
minded me;  it  happened  once  that  I  walked  in  the  upper  market 
of  Ciporas,  and  I  met  one  of  the  minim,  named  Jacob,  of  the 
village  of  Zachania  and  he  said  to  me  ":  It  reads  [Deut.  xxiii. 
19]  :  "  Thou  shalt  not  bring  the  hire  of  a  harlot,"  etc.  May  then 
a  retiring  room  for  the  high  priest  be  built  from  such  money? 
And  I  kept  silent.  Said  he  to  me:  So  taught  Jeshu  b.  Pan- 
thyra.f  It  reads  [Mich.  i.  7]:  "For  from  harlot's  wages  she 
gathered  them,  and  for  harlot's  wages  shall  they  be  used  again  "  ; 
hence,  money  that  comes  from  a  dirty  place,  may  be  expended 

*  The  text  discusses  here  whether  an  animal  in  convulsive  movement  before 
death  is  considered  alive  or  dead,  which  is  inserted  here  not  in  its  proper  place,  nor 
is  it  of  importance  and  therefore  omitted. 

f  In  Tosaphta  Chulin  (ii.  24)  it  states  that  Eliazar  said  :  Jacob  has  related  to 
me  things  of  minim  in  the  name  of  Jeshu  b.  Panthyra,  and  I  was  pleased  with  them. 
But  it  is  not  mentioned  what  it  was,  and  we  are  in  doubt  whether  it  means  the 
Joke  in  text.  This  may  serve  as  an  answer  to  the  criticism  of  the  "  Open  court." 
Vol.  16,  pp.  475-477. 


28  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

on  a  dirty  place,  which  explanation  pleased  me.  It  is  for  this 
that  I  was  suspected  and  captured.  And  I  confess  that  I  have 
transgressed  [Prov.  v.  8] :  "  Remove  far  from  her  thy  way,  and 
come  not  nigh  to  the  door  of  her  house. "  "  Remove  from  her, ' ' 
means  from  minunism  and  "  come  not  nigh"  means  to  govern- 
ment. Others,  however,  interpret  same  "  remove  far"  etc.  as 
to  mean  minunism,  and  "come  not  nigh"  etc.,  prostitution, 
which  place,  according  to  R.  'Hisda,  is  prohibited  to  approach 
from  a  distance  of  four  yards. 

Mar.  Uqba  said:  it  reads  [Ps.  xxx.  15]:  "The  leech  hath 
two  daughters  (crying)  Give,  give,"  i.e.,  minunism  and  the 
government,  which  are  never  satisfied,  the  first  of  catching  men 
to  her  belief,  and  the  second,  duties.  R.  'Hisda  in  the  name  of 
Mar.  Uqba  said:  The  Gehenna  cries,  saying,  "  bring  me  in  the 
two  daughters,  who  always  cry  in  this  world  " :  "  Bring  in  to  me, 
bring  in  to  me."  It  reads  [Prov.  ii.  19]:  "  All  that  come  unto 
her  return  not  again,  and  they  will  not  reach  the  paths  of  life." 
If  they  do  not  return  again,  they  will  certainly  not  reach  the 
paths  of  life?  It  means,  therefore,  that  they  who  repent  and 
return  from  minunism,  die  that  they  might  not  return  to  minu- 
nism again.  Does  one  die  who  repents  minunism  only  and  not 
other  sins;  is  there  not  a  Boraitha:  It  was  said  of  Elazar  b. 
Durdia  who  left  not  out  one  prostitute.  He  was  once  informed 
that  there  was  a  prostitute  in  one  of  the  sea  countries,  who  re- 
ceived a  pocketful  of  dinars  in  reward,  and  he  took  this  amount 
and  passed  seven  rivers  until  he  reached  her.  She,  however, 
caused  him  to  repent.  He  then  placed  himself  between  two 
mountains  saying;  "  O  ye  mountains,  pray  for  me,"  to  which 
they  answered:  "  Instead  of  praying  for  thee,  we  must  pray  for 
ourselves"  [Is.  liv.  10]:  "  For  the  mountain  may  depart,  and 
the  hills  may  be  removed."  He  then  said:  "  Heaven  and  earth, 
pray  for  me,"  and  they  also  answered:  "  We  have  to  pray  for 
ourselves,"  as  it  reads  [ibid.  li.  6] :  "  For  the  heavens  shall  van- 
ish," etc.  The  same  answer  he  got  from  the  sun  and  the  moon 
of  which  it  reads  [ibid.  xxiv.  23]  :  "  And  the  moon  shall  be  put 
to  the  blush  and  the  sun  be  made  ashamed."  A  similar  answer 
he  got  from  the  stars  and  planets  of  which  it  reads  in  [ibid, 
xxxiv.  4]:  "And  all  the  host  of  heaven  shall  be  dissolved." 
He  then  exclaimed:  "  I  see  that  I  can  rely  only  upon  myself," 
and  having  put  his  head  between  his  knees,  he  wept  until  his 
soul  departed.  A  heavenly  voice  was  then  heard,  saying,  "  R. 
Elazar  b.  Durdia  is  prepared  for  life  in  the  world  to  come." 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  29 

Rabbi,  when  he  heard  this,  wept,  saying,  "  there  is  again  one 
who  bought  his  world  in  one  moment  while  another  one  must 
work  for  it  all  his  life."  And  again,  it  is  not  enough  for  those 
who  repent,  that  they  get  a  share  in  the  world  to  come,  but  they 
are  named  also  rabbis,  as  the  heavenly  voice  said :  Rabbi  Eliazar, 
etc.  [hence  we  see  that  he  who  has  repented  from  sin,  also  died? 
Because  he,  Elazar  was  involved  in  such,  it  is  similar  to  minu- 
nism]. 

R.  Hanina  and  R.  Jonathan  were  on  the  road  and  they  met 
two  thoroughfares,  one  leading  to  the  gate  of  an  idol  and  the 
other  to  the  gate  of  the  prostitutes.  Said  one  to  his  colleague : 
Let  us  go  on  that  which  leads  to  the  idol  as  the  evil  spirit  of 
idolators  is  killed.  Answered  his  colleague:  On  the  contrary, 
let  us  go  on  to  that  which  leads  to  the  prostitute  so  that  we 
should  overrule  the  evil  spirit,  and  be  rewarded.  When  they 
arrived  to  the  prostitutes,  the  latter  ran  away  to  their  homes. 
And  his  colleague  asked  him  :  "  What  was  the  reason  you  relied 
upon — [Prov.  ii.  11]:  '  Discretion^  will  watch  over  thee,  under- 
standing will  keep  thee.'  " 

The  rabbis  taught:  When  R.  Elazar  b.  Partha  and  R.  Hanina 
b.  Tradian  were  captured  by  the  government,  said  the  former 
to  the  latter:  "  Happy  are  you,  that  you  were  captured  because 
of  one  thing  only,  and  woe  is  to  me  that  I  am  captured  for  five 
things. ' '  Said  he :  Happy  are  you  who  are  accused  of  five  things 
and  will  be  saved,  woe  is  to  me  who  am  accused  only  of  one 
thing  shall  be  sentenced.  The  reason  is,  that  you  were  occu- 
pied with  both  the  Torah  and  with  bestowing  of  favors,  while 
I  was  occupied  with  the  Torah  only.  This  is  in  accordance 
with  R.  Huna  who  said  elsewhere:  He  who  is  occupied  with 
the  Torah  only,  is  similar  to  him  who  denies  God.  As  it  reads 
[H  Chron.  xv.  3]:  ''  And  many  days  (had  elapsed)  for  Israel, 
(they  being)  without  the  true  God."  What  does  the  expression 
"  without  the  true  God  "  mean?  He  who  occupies  himself  with 
the  Torah,  but  does  not  observe  bestowing  of  favors,  which  is 
the  main  point  of  humanity.  Was  indeed  R.  Hanina  b.  Tradial 
not  occupied  in  bestowing  of  favors?  Is  it  not  stated  further  on 
that  he  did?  Yea,  but  not  so  as  it  was  fit  for  his  dignity. 
Elazar  b.  Partha  was  brought  before  the  judges  and  they  asked: 
"  Why  are  you  studying,  and  stealing?    And  he  answered:  If 

*  The  term  for  discretion  in  Hebrew  is  me  zema  the  last  word  is  the  term  for 
prostitution  and  the  Talmud  explains  it  as  it  would  be  written  men  zema  which 
mean*  from  prostitution. 


3©  THE   BABYLONIAN  TALMUD. 

one  is  a  scholar,  he  is  no  warrior  (robber)  and  if  a  warrior,  he  is 
no  scholar,  and  as  it  is  not  true  that  I  am  a  warrior,  so  is  it  also 
untrue  that  I  am  a  scholar.  Why  then  are  you  named  master? 
And  he  answered:  "  I  am  the  master  of  embroidering."  They 
brought  two  coils  before  him  and  said  to  him:  "  Which  is  warp 
and  which  is  woof?  "  A  miracle  occurred  and  a  female  bee  set  on 
the  warp  while  a  male  bee  on  the  woof  and  he  said:  This  is 
a  warp  and  this  is  a  woof.  "  Why  did  you  not  visit  the  Bee 
abidon  {Xht  house  of  discussion)?"  And  he  answered:  "  I  am 
too  old,  and  feared  perhaps  I  would  be  trodden  down  under  the 
feet  of  the  crowd."  "  Has  it  ever  happened  that  old  men 
should  be  trodden  down  in  the  mentioned  house?  Again  a  mir- 
acle occurred,  and  just  at  that  time  they  were  notified  that  an 
old  man  was  trodden  down  in  the  house  in  question.  "And 
why  then  have  you  freed  your  slave  (which  is  forbidden)?" 
This  never  occurred.  One  of  the  crowd,  however,  arose  to  tes- 
tify against  him.  Elijah  then  disguised  himself  as  one  of  the 
consuls  of  the  government  and  said  to  the  witness:  As  in  all 
the  other  things  a  miracle  occurred,  the  same  would  occur  also 
in  this  case  and  you  would  be  considered  an  enemy  of  his  and 
a  liar.  The  alleged  witness,  however,  did  not  listen  and  rose 
to  bear  his  testimony.  Meanwhile,  a  letter  from  one  of  the 
great  oflficers  which  was  to  be  sent  to  the  Caesar  was  handed 
to  this  man  as  messenger.  While  he  was  going,  Elijah  caught 
and  threw  him  four  hwndxQd  parsas,  so  that  he  did  not  return 
any  more.  Hanina  b.  Tradian  was  then  brought  before  them 
and  questioned  why  he  occupied  himself  with  the  Torah,  and  he 
answered:  Because  I  am  so  commanded  by  the  Lord  my  God. 
The  decree  was  then  rendered  that  he  should  be  burned,  his 
wife  killed,  and  his  daughter  to  be  taken  to  the  house  of  prosti- 
tutes. [He  to  be  burned,  because  he  used  to  express  the  name 
Jehovah  as  it  is  written  (and  not  Adonai  as  it  is  to  be  read 
instead),  but  why  did  he  so?  Did  not  Aba  Shaul  say  (Sanhe- 
drin,  p.  265)  that  he  who  does  so  has  no  share  in  the  world  to 
come?  He  did  so  to  learn  which  is  allowed  privately,  but  he 
did  it  also  publicly.  His  wife  to  be  killed,  because  she  has 
not  prevented  his  doing  so  by  protesting;  from  this  it  is  to 
be  inferred  that  he  who  feels  that  his  protests  would  effect  and 
does  not  protest,  is  punished  therefor.  And  his  daughter  to 
prostitution;  because,  according  to  R.  Johanan,  it  happened 
once  that  she  walked  in  the  presence  of  the  great  people  of 
Rome,  and  they  exclaimed:  How  nice  are  the  steps  of  this  girl! 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  31 

And  from  that  time  she  took  care  of  her  steps  to  please  the 
spectators.]  When  all  the  three  went  out  from  the  court,  they 
justified  the  decrees  upon  them.  Hanina  said  [Deut.  xxxii.  4] : 
"  He  is  the  Rock,  his  work  is  perfect,"  etc.  His  wife  said: 
"The  God  of  truth  and  without  iniquity";  and  his  daughter 
said  [Jer.  xxxii.  19]:  "  Great  in  council,  and  mighty  in  execu- 
tion (thou)  whose  eyes  are  open  over  all  the  ways  of  the  sons  of 
man. "  Said  Rabbi :  How  great  are  these  upright  that  to  justify 
their  decrees,  the  three  verses  of  justification  came  to  their 
mouths,  at  the  time  of  so  great  a  trouble. 

The  rabbis  taught:  When  R.  Jose  b.  Kisma  became  sick, 
R.  Hanina  b.  Tradian  called  on  him ;  the  former  said  to  him : 
Hanina,  my  brother,  are  you  not  aware  that  this  nation  is  reign- 
ing by  heavenly  decree,  and  notwithstanding  that  she  has  de- 
stroyed the  Temple,  burned  the  palaces,  killed  the  pious  and 
put  out  of  the  way  all  the  best  of  Israel,  she  is  still  in  force. 
About  you,  however,  I  heard  that  notwithstanding  the  decree 
of  the  government,  you  occupy  yourself  with  the  Torah  pub- 
licly, and  you  bear  with  you  the  Holy  Scrolls  at  all  time. 
Hanina  then  answered:  The  heavens  shall  have  mercy  with  us. 
Exclaimed  Jose:  I  am  relating  to  you  reasons,  and  you  say, 
the  heavens  shall  have  mercy.  I  wonder  whether  the  govern- 
ment will  not  burn  you  with  the  Holy  Scrolls  on  fire?  Hanina 
then  said:  Rabbi,  what  will  become  of  me  in  the  world  to  come? 
And  Jose  asked  him  :  Did  not  some  of  the  meritorious  acts  come 
to  your  hand?  And  he  answered:  The  money  which  I  prepared 
to  celebrate  Purhn,  I  erred,  thinking  that  it  was  of  the  charity 
treasury;  I  have  distributed  it  to  the  poor,  and  thereafter  I 
have  not  collected  from  the  charity.  If  so,  answered  Jose,  I 
wish  that  my  share  should  be  like  yours,  and  my  fate  similar. 

It  was  said  that  a  few  days  later  R.  Jose  ben  Kisma  de- 
parted, and  all  the  great  men  of  Rome  were  going  after  his 
cofifin,  lamenting  him  greatly.  On  their  return,  they  found 
Hanina  b.  Tradian  studying  the  Torah  publicly  with  the  Holy 
Scrolls  in  his  bosom ;  he  was  enwrapped  in  the  Holy  Scrolls  and 
surrounded  with  branches  of  trees,  which  were  kindled.  And 
two  woollen  towels,  soaked  in  water,  were  placed  on  his  heart 
that  his  soul  might  not  depart  so  quickly,  and  when  his  daugh- 
ter said  to  him:  Father,  is  it  just,  what  I  see  done  with  you? 
He  answered:  If  I  were  burned  alone,  it  would  be  hard  for  me, 
but  now  that  I  am  burned  in  conjunction  with  the  Holy  Scrolls, 
I  am  sure  that  He  who  will  take  revenge  for  the  Holy  Scrolls 


32  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

will  take  revenge  for  me  also.  His  disciples  questioned  him: 
What  do  you  see  now?  And  he  answered:  I  see  the  letters  are 
flying  away  from  the  parchment  while  they  burned.  They  said 
to  him:  Rabbi,  open  your  mouth,  so  that  the  fire  should  catch 
you,  and  he  answered:  It  is  better  that  my  soul  be  taken  by 
Him  who  gave  it  and  not  I  myself  shall  cause  it  an  earlier  death. 
The  executioner  then  said  to  him :  Rabbi,  if  I  will  increase  this 
fire  and  will  take  off  the  woollen  towels  from  your  heart,  would 
you  bring  me  to  life  in  the  world  to  come?  To  which  he  an- 
swered, Yea.  He  then  asked  him  to  swear,  which  he  did.  Im- 
mediately he  increased  the  fire,  took  off  the  towels,  and  his 
soul  departed.  The  executioner  himself  then  jumped  into  the 
fire.  A  heavenly  voice  was  then  heard :  Hanina  and  the  execu- 
tioner are  prepared  for  life  in  the  world  to  come.  Rabbi  then 
wept,  saying:  There  is  one  again  who  bought  his  world  in  one 
moment,  etc. 

Bruria,  the  wife  of  R,  Mair,  was  a  daughter  of  Hanina  b. 
Tradian,  and  she  said  to  her  husband:  It  is  a  disgrace  for  me 
that  my  sister  should  be  in  the  house  of  prostitution.  He  then 
took  with  him  a  rpixocftoi  full  with  dmars,  and  said :  I  will  go 
there,  and  if  she  is  yet  pure,  a  miracle  will  occur.  He  disguised 
himself  as  a  military  rider,  visited  her,  asking  her  to  listen  to 
him.  She,  however,  gives  him  many  reasons,  and  finally  tells 
him  that  in  this  place  he  will  find  many  who  are  more  beautiful 
than  she.  He  then  convinced  himself  that  she  answered  the 
same  to  everyone,  and  went  to  her  guardian  asking  him  to  ac- 
cept the  money  he  brought  for  transferring  her  to  him,  saying: 
The  half  of  the  dinars  will  be  suflficient  to  bribe  the  officers  of  the 
government,  and  the  other  half  will  remain  for  you.  And  to 
his  question :  What  should  I  do  when  the  half  will  be  spent  and 
they  will  still  persecute  me?  he  answered:  You  will  then  say, 
God  of  Mair,  help  me,  and  you  will  be  saved.  And  whence  do 
I  know  that  so  it  is?  Mair  answered:  I  will  convince  you  im- 
mediately. There  were  dogs  who  devoured  people,  and  the 
guard  stimulated  them  upon  Mair,  and  he  pronounced  God  of 
Mair,  answer  me,  and  they  kept  aloof  from  him.  The  guard 
then  delivered  to  Mair  his  sister-in-law.  Finally,  the  govern- 
ment got  wind  of  it,  and  the  guardian  was  brought  to  the  gal- 
lows to  be  hanged,  and  as  soon  as  he  pronounced,  God  of  Mair, 
help  me,  he  was  thrown  down  uninjured.  And  to  the  question. 
What  is  it?  he  related  before  all  what  happened.  The  govern- 
ment then  engraved  the  picture  of  R.  Mair  on  the  gate  of  Rome, 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  ^3 

commanding  that  he  who  should  see  such  a  face  should  deliver 
him  to  the  officers.  It  happened  that  he  was  once  seen,  and 
they  ran  after  him ;  he  then  ran  away  to  a  place  of  prostitution, 
and  Elijah  disguised  himself  as  one  of  the  prostitutes  and  em- 
braced him.  The  officers  then  said  that  it  must  be  someone 
else,  as  Mair  would  not  do  so.  Thereafter,  Mair  ran  away  to 
Babylon,  according  to  some,  because  of  this  occasion,  and  ac- 
cording to  others,  because  of  that  which  happened  to  Brura.* 

(Concerning  arenas  and  circuses)  Tanaim  differ  in  the  follow- 
ing: An  Israelite  must  not  visit  arenas,  because  they  are  consid- 
ered a  place  of  scorners.  R.  Nathan,  however,  permits  it  for 
two  reasons:  first,  one  should  be  able  to  save  an  Israelite  if  it 
happened  that  he  was  placed  there  by  animosity;  and  secondly, 
if  it  happened  that  an  Israelite  should  die  there,  the  visitor  may 
then  be  a  witness,  so  that  the  widow  of  the  deceased  should  be 
allowed  to  remarry. 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  must  not  go  to  the  theatres  and  cir- 
cuses, because  at  those  places  they  gather  up  money  for  the 
idols;  so  R.  Mair.  The  sages,  however,  say:  In  the  places 
where  they  gather,  it  is  prohibited  because  of  the  suspicion  of 
idolatry.  And  in  those  where  they  are  not  gathering,  it  is  pro- 
hibited, because  they  are  considered  places  of  scorners.  R. 
Simeon  b.  Pazi  lectured  [Psalm  i.  i]  :  "  Happy  is  the  man  who 
walketh  not  in  the  council  of  the  wicked,  and  standeth  not  in 
the  way  of  sinners,  and  sitteth  not  in  the  seat  of  scorners."  If 
he  had  not  walked  how  could  he  stand,  and  if  he  did  not  stand 
how  could  he  sit,  and  if  he  did  not  sit,  how  could  he  scorn?  It 
means  as  follows:  That  if  he  had  walked,  he  will  iinally  stand, 
and  if  stood,  he  will  finally  sit  and  scorn,  and  concerning  him 
it  is  said  [Prov.  ix.  12]:  "  But  if  thou  art  a  scorner,  thou  alone 
will  have  to  bear  it."  Said  R.  Eliezar:  He  who  scorns  brings 
chastisements  upon  himself  as  [Is.  xxviii.  22]:  "And  now  be 
ye  no  longer  scornful,  lest  your  bonds  be  made  strong."  And 
Rabha  said  to  the  rabbis  (his  disciples) :  I  beg  you  not  to  scorn  so 
that  chastisements  shall  not  come  upon  ye.  And  R.  Ktina  said: 
Even  his  food  becomes  lessened,  as  it  reads  [Hos.  vii.  5]  :  "  (Be- 
cause) he  joineth  his  hand  with  scorners."  (Here  is  repeated 
about  the  same  matter  from  Last  Gate,  p.  30.)  R.  Simeon  b. 
Pazi  lectured  again :  "  Happy  is  the  man  who  walketh  not  "  to 

*  The  text  does  not  say  what  happened  to  her.  Rashi  explains  that  she  com- 
mitted suicide  because  of  a  discussion  between  her  and  her  husband,  who  finally  con- 
quered her. 


34  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  theatres  and  circuses  of  the  heathens,  "  standeth  not  in  the 
way  of  sinners,"  that  is,  he  who  does  not  stand  as  a  spectator  at 
bestial  contests  (arranged  by  the  Romans).  And  "  the  sitting 
of  scorners  "  beget  contention.  And  lest  one  say:  As  all  the 
above  I  have  not  done,  I  may  engage  my  time  in  sleeping,  there- 
fore, "  But  whose  delight  is  in  the  law  of  the  Lord." 

R.  Samuel  b.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  R.  Jonathan  said: 
"  Happy  is  the  man  who  walketh  not,"  etc.,  means  Abraham 
our  father,  who  was  not  conjoined  with  the  generation  of  sepa- 
ration, who  were  wicked,  as  [Gen.  xi.  3]  :  "  Let  us  make  bricks," 
etc.  "  In  the  way  of  sinners,"  etc. — he  did  not  stand  with 
Sodomites  of  whom  it  reads  [ibid.  xiii.  13]:  "  But  the  men  of 
Sodom  were  wicked  and  sinners,"  etc. — "with  scorners" — he 
did  not  associate  himself  with  the  Philistines,  who  were  "  scorn- 
ers," as  [Judges  xvi.  25] :  "  Call  for  Samson  that  he  may  make 
sport  of  us." 

It  reads  [Psalms,  cxii.  i] :  "  Happy  is  the  man  that  feareth 
the  Lord."  Man,  and  not  woman?  Said  R.  Amram  in  the 
name  of  Rabh:  Happy  is  he  who  repents  when  he  is  still  young. 
And  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi  said:  Happy  is  he  who  conquers  his 
evil  spirit,  as  a  heroic  man ;  "  that  greatly  delighteth  in  his  com- 
mandments." Said  R.  Eliezar:  In  his  commandments,  but  not 
in  the  reward  for  them.  And  this  is  what  a  Mishna  in  Aboth 
states:  Be  not  like  slaves  who  serve  their  master  because  of 
reward,  but  as  the  one  who  serves  him  not  to  receive  any  reward. 
"  In  the  law  of  the  Lord  is  his  delight,"  said  Rabh:  i.e.,  one 
should  always  study  the  law  to  which  his  heart  is  inclined.  Levi 
and  R.  Simeon,  the  son  of  Rabbi,  were  sitting  before  Rabbi 
reading  one  book  of  the  Bible,  and  after  finishing  Levi  said: 
Bring  us"  Proverbs."  And  R.  Simeon  said:  Bring  us"  Psalms." 
He  overruled  Levi,  and  "  Psalms"  was  brought.  When  they 
came  to  the  verse,  "  In  the  law  of  the  Lord  is  his  delight," 
Rabbi  stopped  and  said:  One  has  to  study  only  what  his  heart 
is  inclined  to.  Said  Levi  to  him :  Rabbi,  with  this  you  have 
given  us  permission  to  stop  studying.  R.  Abdimi  b.  Hama 
said:  Him  who  occupies  himself  with  the  Torah,  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  grants  his  desire.  Rabha  said:  At  the  time  one 
begins  to  study,  the  Torah  is  named  the  Holy  One's,  but  after 
studying,  it  is  considered  to  be  his  (the  student's);  as  first  it  is 
written  the  law  of  the  Lord,  and  thereafter,  in  Ids  law.  And  he 
said  again:  One  shall  first  study,  and  thereafter  deliberate,  as  the 
above-cited  verse  reads.     The  same  said  again:  One  shall  study, 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  35 

although  he  forgets;  shall  study,  although  he  does  not  under- 
stand it  well.*  (Here  is  repeated  from  Sanhedrin,  p.  369,  and 
from  Erubin,  p.  126.  See  there.)  It  reads  [Psalm  i.  3]:  "  And 
he  shall  be  like  a  tree  replanted  by  rivulets,"  etc.  Said  the 
disciple  of  Janai:  "  Replanted  and  not  planted"  signifies  that 
he  who  receives  his  knowledge  from  one  master,  does  not  see 
any  blessing  in  his  studies.  Said  R.  'Hisda  to  his  disciples:  I 
would  like  to  tell  you  something,  but  I  am  afraid  you  will  leave 
me:  He  who  studies  always  from  one  master,  does  not  see  any 
blessing.  They  then  left  him  and  went  to  the  college  of  Rabba, 
who,  when  he  heard  the  above  reason,  said  to  them:  This  is 
true  only  concerning  reasons  and  ingenuity;  but  as  for  tradi- 
tions, it  is  better  to  learn  them  from  one  master,  so  that  they 
should  not  be  metamorphosed  in  different  versions.  Tanhum 
b.  Hanilai  said:  It  is  advisable  to  divide  one's  years  into  three 
parts:  one-third  for  the  study  of  Scripture,  the  second,  Mishna, 
and  the  third,  Talmud.  But  does  one  know  how  long  he  has  to 
live?     It  means,  he  should  do  it  every  day. 

"  The  fruit  in  its  season  .  .  .  does  not  wither,"  said 
Rabha:  It  signifies  that  if  the  fruit  is  given  in  its  season,  then 
its  leaves  will  not  wither;  but  if  not,  the  succeeding  verse  (4) 
applies  to  both  the  teacher  and  pupil. 

R.  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Hunna,  quoting  Rabh,  said  [Prov. 
vii.  26]:  "  For  many  deadly  wounded  hath  she  caused  to  fall," 
means  a  disciple  who,  though  not  as  yet  fit,  decides  questions; 
"  very  numerous  were  slain  by  her,"  means  the  contrary:  he 
who  is  fit  to  do  so  and  does  not.  And  until  what  age?  Till  he 
reaches  his  fortieth  year.  But  has  not  Rabha  decided  questions 
in  his  youth?  It  was  because  there  was  no  greater  scholar  than 
he.  Aba  b.  Ada  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  or  b.  Aba  in  the  name 
of  R.  Hamnuna,  quoting  Rabh,  said:  Even  the  gossip  of  a 
scholar  is  to  be  studied,  as  it  reads:  "  And  its  leaves  shall  not 
wither." 

R.  Joshua  b.  Levi  said :  The  following  is  written  in  the  Pen- 
tateuch, repeated  in  the  Prophets,  and  thirdly  in  the  Hagiogra- 
pha:  He  who  occupies  himself  with  the  Torah  is  prosperous  in 
all  his  undertakings.  In  the  Pentateuch  [Deut.  xxix.  8]:  "  Keep 
ye  therefore  the  words  of  this  covenant,  and  do  them,  that  ye 
may  prosper  in  all  that  ye  do,"  repeated  in  Prophets  [Jos.  i.  8]: 


*  In  text  it  is  inferred  from  (Ps.  cxix.  20).     However,  the  translation  does  not 
correspond  and  therefore  the  quotation  is  omitted. 


36  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

"  This  book  of  the  book  shall  not  depart  out  of  thy  mouth;  but 
thou  shalt  mediate  therein  day  and  night,  in  order  that  thou 
mayest  observe  to  do  according  to  all  that  is  written  therein ; 
for  then  shalt  thou  make  thy  way  prosperous,  and  then  shalt 
thou  have  good  success."  And  thirdly  in  Hagiographa  [Psalm 
i.  2,  3]:  "  But  whose  delight  is  in  the  law  of  the  Lord,  and  who 
doth  meditate  in  his  law  by  day  and  night.  (3)  And  he  shall 
be  like  a  tree  planted  by  rivulets  of  water,  that  yieldeth  its  fruit 
in  its  season,  and  the  leaf  of  which  doth  not  wither;  and  all  that 
he  may  do  shall  prosper." 

R.  Alexander  heralded :  Who  wants  to  live,  who  wants  to 
live?  And  a  big  crowd  surrounded  him.  He  then  referred 
them  to  [ibid,  xxxiv.  14-16]. 

"  Where  the  idols  should  be  placed,''  etc.  Said  R.  Eliezar  in 
the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  If  however,  he  has  built,  the  reward 
of  it  is  valid.  Is  this  not  self-evident?  It  is  only  the  prepara- 
tion for  the  idol  to  which  both  R.  Ismael  and  R.  Aqiba  agree 
that  they  are  not  forbidden,  unless  the  idol  is  already  wor- 
shipped? Said  R.  Jeremiah:  The  Mishna  means  that  even  if 
he  has  made  the  idol  itself,  the  reward  is  valued.  But  this  is 
correct  only  to  him,  who  holds  that  when  an  Israelite  made  an 
idol  for  himself,  it  is  forbidden  even  before  it  was  worshipped ; 
but  of  a  heathen,  it  is  not,  unless  worshipped.  But  to  him  who 
holds  that  the  same  is  the  case  with  the  idol  of  a  heathen,  what 
can  be  said?  Said  Rabba  b.  Ula:  The  Mishna  refers  to  the  fin- 
ishing touch,  which  completes  the  idol,  and  the  reason  is:  what 
made  the  idol  ready?  The  last  touch,  which  in  itself  is  not 
worth  the  smallest  coin  {a  peruthd),  and  therefore  it  is  not  for- 
bidden. From  this  it  may  be  inferred  that  the  Tana  holds  the 
obligation  to  pay  a  laborer,  counts  from  the  beginning  till  the 
very  end  of  the  labor,  and  not  only  after  its  completion. 

MISHNA  IX. :  One  must  not  manufacture  ornaments  for 
an  idol — e.g.,  necklaces,  nose-bands  and  rings,  R.  Eliezar, 
however,  maintains  that  for  reward  one  may.  Nothing  must  be 
sold  to  them  while  attached  to  the  ground,  but  after  it  was  cut 
ofT,  one  may.  R.  Jehudah  said :  He  may  also  sell  with  the 
stipulation  to  cut  it  off  afterward. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  this  deduced?  Said  R.  Jose,  from 
[Deut.  vii.  2]:  "  Nor  favor  them,"*  means,  he  shall  not  give 

*  The  term  for  favor  in  Hebrew  is  chanina.  Chanina  means  also  rest.  Hence 
the  deduction. 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  37 

him  a  rest  in  the  land;  we  have  learned  similarly  in  a  Boraitha, 
with  the  addition  that  it  also  means:  You  shall  not  give  him 
such  which  shall  make  them  merciful  in  the  eyes  of  others. 
(Here  is  repeated  from  Chulin,  p.  114  b.)  The  above  statement 
is  a  support  to  that  which  Rabh  said :  It  is  forbidden  to  say : 
How  nice  is  this  female  heathen?  An  objection  was  raised. 
R.  Simeon  b.  Gamalien,  being  once  on  the  steps  of  the  Temple 
mountain,  happened  to  see  a  female  heathen  who  was  a  great 
beauty,  and  he  exclaimed:  "  How  great  is  thy  work  O  Lord!  " 
And  it  happened  also  to  R.  Aqiba  that,  when  he  saw  the  wife 
of  Tornus  Rupus,  he  laughed  and  wept.  Laughed,  because  he 
saw  that  she  would  become  a  proselyte,  and  he  would  marry 
her;  wept,  that  such  a  beauty  must  be  buried  under  earth? 
This  does  not  contradict  Rabh,  as  it  was  only  a  benediction, 
which  one  has  to  recite  by  seeing  nice  creatures.*  R.  Joshua 
b.  Levi  said:  Modesty  is  the  greatest  of  them  all,  as  it  reads 
[Is.  Ixi.  i]:  "  Hath  anointed  me  to  announce  good  tidings  unto 
the  meek,"  it  does  not  read  to  announce  pious  men,  but  meek; 
hence  modesty  is  greatest. 

' '  One  must  not  sell. ' '  The  rabbis  taught :  One  may  sell 
them  a  tree  with  the  stipulation  to  cut  it  off,  and  he  cuts  it  im- 
mediately, so  R.  Jehudah.  R.  Mair,  however,  says:  Only  that 
which  is  already  cut.  The  same  is  the  case  with  hay,  and  also 
with  flour.  According  to  R.  Jehudah,  it  may  be  sold  to  harvest, 
and  according  to  R.  Mair  that  Avhich  is  already  harvested.  It 
was  necessary  to  learn  their  points  of  differing  in  all  the  three, 
as  one  from  the  other  could  not  be  inferred  (we  omit  the  reasons, 
as  of  little  importance).  The  schoolman  propounded  a  ques- 
tion :  May  one  sell  them  a  cow  with  the  stipulation  to  slaughter 
it?  Shall  we  assume  that  the  above  things  R.  Jehudah  permits, 
because  they  are  not  under  the  control  of  the  heathen  so  that 
he  is  not  able  to  prolong  time?  But  in  the  case  of  a  cow  which 
he  takes  immediately,  he  may  prolong  the  time  a  good  deal 
until  slaughtering,  and  this  even  R.  Jehudah  will  not  allow. 
Come  and  hear  the  following:  One  may  sell  a  cow  with  the 
stipulation  of  slaughtering,  and  the  heathen  has  to  do  it  imme- 
diately. So  R.  Jehudah,  while  R.  Mair  permits  only  the  sale 
of  the  slaughtered. 

*  Here  is  repeated  from  many  tracts,  especially  from  Middle  Gate,  p.  227,  and  a 
whole  Mishna  from  Tract  Shekalim  vi,  which  we  have  omitted.  The  statement  of 
R.  Joshua  b.  I>evi  in  text  belongs  to  the  Mishna  Shekalim  vi,  which  states  that 
piety  is  greater  than  all  other  good  things. 


38  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

MISHNA  X. :  Houses  must  not  be  rented  to  the  heathens 
in  Palestine,  not  to  speak  of  fields.  In  Syria,  however,  houses 
are  permitted  to  be  sold,  but  not  fields,  and  out  of  Syria  houses 
may  be  sold  and  fields  rented.  So  R.  Main  R.  Jose,  however, 
said:  In  Palestine,  houses  may  be  rented,  but  not  fields,  in 
Syria  houses  sold,  and  fields  rented;  out  of  Syria,  everything 
may  be  sold.  However,  even  in  the  places  where  renting  is 
allowed,  it  must  not  be  for  residence,  as  the  idol  is  brought 
there,  which  is  against  [Deut.  vii.  26]:  "And  thou  shalt  not 
bring  an  abomination  in  thy  house."  A  bath-house  must  not 
be  rented  at  any  place  because  it  is  named  after  the  owner,  who 
is  an  Israelite  (and  he  can  be  suspected  of  heating  it  himself  on 
the  Sabbath). 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by  the  expression  "  not  to  speak 
of  fields  ";  is  it  because  two  things  would  be  neglected,  resting 
the  fields  and  tithe  from  the  growth?  The  same  would  be  with 
the  houses  also,  resting,  and  the  neglect  of  a  mazuza  ?  Said  R. 
Mesharshia:  The  mazuza  is  not  an  obligation  upon  the  house, 
but  upon  him  who  lives  in  it. 

"  hi  Syria  houses,"  etc.  Let  us  see;  why  is  selling  forbid- 
den? Because  it  is  considered  as  the  land  of  Israel.  Why, 
then,  is  renting  permitted?  Renting  even  in  Palestine  is  only 
as  a  safeguard  that  one  should  not  come  to  sell;  and  a  safeguard 
to  a  safeguard  we  do  not  decree.  But  is  not  renting  fields  in 
Syria  also  a  safeguard  to  a  safeguard,  and  is  nevertheless  forbid- 
den? This  is  not  considered  a  safeguard,  as  the  Tana  holds  that 
the  land  which  was  taken  away  by  an  individual  (not  by  the 
people  of  Israel  at  large)  is  considered,  nevertheless,  to  be  the 
land  of  Israel.  Hence,  against  fields  upon  which  two  things 
would  be  neglected,  as  said  above,  the  rabbis  decreed ;  but  this 
is  not  the  case  with  houses. 

' '  In  Syria  houses  are  permitted, ' '  etc.  For  the  just-mentioned 
reasons.  "  R.  Jose  .  .  .  m  Palestine,  houses,"  etc.  Also  for 
the  same  reason. 

"  In  Syria  houses  sold,"  etc.  It  is  because  he  holds  that  the 
land  which  was  taken  by  an  individual  is  not  considered  the 
land  of  Israel,  and,  therefore,  only  against  fields  they  decreed 
for  the  reasons  adduced  above,  but  not  against  houses. 

"  Everything  may  be  sold,"  etc.  Because  it  is  far  from  Pales- 
tine, no  decree  was  rendered.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of 
Samuel:  The  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Jose,  Said  R.  Joseph: 
Provided  it  does  not  make  a  whole  neighborhood  of  heathens. 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  39 

And  there  is  a  Boraitha:  That  less  than  three  families  is  not 
considered  a  neighborhood. 

"  Where  renting  is  allowed,"  etc.  From  this  we  infer  that 
not  in  every  place  renting  is  allowed.  Hence,  the  unnamed 
Mishna  is  according  to  R.  Mair;  as  according  to  R.  Jose,  rent- 
ing is  permitted  in  every  place. 

''But  not  a  bath-house,'"  etc.  There  is  a  Boraitha :  R.  Simeon 
b.  Gimaha  said :  One  must  not  rent  his  bath-house  to  a  heathen 
because  the  bath  is  named  after  the  owner  and  the  heathen  does 
his  labor  on  Sabbath  and  holidays  (and  people  may  think  that 
the  Israelites  themselves  do  this).  But  how  is  it  to  a  Samari- 
tan? It  may  be  rented,  although  he  works  on  the  minor  festi- 
vals? On  minor  festivals,  we  Israelites  also  are  permitted  to 
heat  baths.  But  let  us  see  why  it  is  permitted  to  rent  a  field  to 
a  heathen,  although  he  does  labor  on  Sabbath?  Because  people 
know  that  the  gardener  is  doing  work  for  himself.  Why  not 
say  the  same  concerning  a  bath-house?  It  is  because  usually 
a  field  is  hired  to  a  gardener,  which  is  not  the  case  with  bath- 
houses. There  is  another  Boraitha:  R.  Simeon  b.  Eliezar:  One 
must  not  rent  his  field  to  a  Samaritan  because  it  is  named  after 
him,  and  the  Samaritan  works  the  field  during  the  minor  festi- 
vals. But  how  is  it  with  a  heathen?  It  is  allowed,  because 
people  know  that  he  does  it  for  himself;  why  not  say  the  same 
concerning  a  Samaritan?  R.  Simeon  b.  Eliezar  does  not  con- 
sider the  reason  of  a  gardener  at  all,  and  his  reason  why  it  is 
allowed  to  a  heathen  is  that  if  we  tell  him  that  he  should  not 
work,  he  will  listen  to,  which  is  not  the  case  with  a  Samaritan, 
who  thinks  that  he  knows  better  than  we  do.  There  were  fields 
of  safran  in  partnership  of  an  Israelite  and  a  heathen ;  the 
heathen  worked  on  Sabbath  and  the  Israelite  on  Sunday,  and 
Rabha  has  permitted  to  do  so.  Rabbina  questioned  him  from 
the  following:  "  An  Israelite  and  a  heathen  who  have  hired  a 
field  in  partnership,  the  Israelite  must  not  say  to  the  heathen : 
You  take  your  share  on  Sabbath  and  I  on  a  week  day,  unless  it 
was  so  stipulated  at  the  time  they  started.  However,  when 
they  come  to  make  their  accounts,  it  is  not  permitted  to  the 
Israelite  that  he  should  take  his  share  from  the  Sabbath  labor." 
Rabha  became  ashamed;  thereafter,  however,  it  was  announced 
that  such  was  stipulated  when  the  partnership  was  started. 

The  schoolman  propounded  a  question:  How  is  it  if  there 
was  no  stipulation?  Come  and  hear:  "  If  such  a  stipulation  was 
made  at  the  time  when  started,  it  is  allowed  " ;  whence  it  may 


40  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

be  inferred,  that  if  there  was  no  stipulation,  it  is  prohibited. 
But  if  so,  how  is  the  latter  part  to  be  understood?  "  When 
they  come  to  make  the  account,  the  Israelite  must  not  take  his 
share  of  Sabbath,"  from  which  it  may  be  inferred  that  without 
an  account,  he  may  accept  it,  although  there  was  no  stipulation. 
In  view  of  this,  from  this  Boraitha  nothing  can  be  taken  for  a 
support. 


CHAPTER   II. 

RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  PLACING  OF  CATTLE  WITH 
HEATHENS,  ACCEPTING  CURE  FROM  THEM,  AND  CONCERNING 
THINGS     WHICH    MAY     AND    MAY    NOT     BE    BOUGHT    FROM    THEM. 

MISHNA  /. :  Cattle  must  not  be  placed  in  the  inns  of  the 
heathens  because  they  are  suspicious  of  having  sexual  inter- 
course with  them.*  And  for  the  same  reason  a  female  must  not 
stay  alone  with  them,  because  they  are  suspected  of  insult;  nor 
should  a  male  stay  with  them  alone,  because  they  are  suspected 
of  bloodshed. 

GEMARA :  There  is  a  contradiction  from  the  following ;  One 
may  buy  from  them  cattle  for  sacrificing  without  fear  that  it  was 
instrumental  in  the  committing  of  a  crime  or  that  it  was  sepa- 
rated as  a  sacrifice  to  an  idol,  or  that  it  was  itself  worshipped. 
Now  it  is  correct  that  there  is  no  fear  of  its  being  separated  or 
worshipped,  for  if  such  were  the  case,  he  would  not  sell  it.  But 
why  should  not  be  feared  its  said  relation  to  a  crime,  and  they 
not  suspected?  Said  R.  Ta'hlipha  in  the  name  of  R.  Shila  b. 
Abina,  quoting  Rabh:  With  his  own  cattle,  the  heathen  is  not 
suspected,  because  of  his  economy  that  the  cattle  should  not 
become  uprooted.  This,  however,  can  apply  only  to  female 
cattle;  what  can  be  said  concerning  male  cattle?  Said  R. 
Kahana:  Here,  also,  the  same  reason  may  apply,  as  the  cattle 
become  meagre  from  such  employment.  But  why  must  one  not 
place  female  cattle  in  the  inns  which  are  under  the  control  of 
females?  Said  Mar  Uqua  b.  Hama:  Because  the  heathens  are 
wont  to  visit  the  wives  of  their  neighbors,  and  if  such  visitor 
happened  not  to  find  the  hostess,  he  may  substitute  the  cattle. 

*  Voltaire  makes  rather  an  exhibit  of  his  ignorance  when  he  mocks  the  ancient 
Jews,  saying  (in  his  Philos.  Diction,  vol.  ii.,  p.  102)  that  they  were  the  only  nation 
given  to  this  offence,  since  otherwise  the  prohibition  thereof  would  have  been  super- 
fluous. This  Mishna  as  well  as  the  following  Gemara  justifies  the  conclusion  that 
this  offence  was  rather  general  and  was  practiced  by  non-Jews  and  even  by  non- 
Semites  at  a  period  much  later  than  the  time  when  the  prohibition  of  the  Scripture 
was  established.  The  attention  of  the  reader  is  called  to  the  eye-witnesses  reported 
in  the  following  Gemara. 

41 


42  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

And  to  the  question  of  the  schoolmen:  How  is  the  law  with 
fowls?  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  quoting  R.  Han- 
nina,  said:  I  have  seen  a  heathen  who  bought  a  goose  in  the 
market,  sexually  intercoursed  with  it,  chopped,  roasted  and  con- 
sumed it,  and  R.  Jeremiah  of  Diphte  said  that  he  had  witnessed 
a  similar  affair  by  an  Arabian. 

Rabbina  said :  There  is  no  contradiction  between  the  Bo- 
raitha  cited,  which  does  not  consider  suspicion,  and  the  Mishna 
which  does,  as  the  Mishna  speaks  of  starting,  which  is  forbidden 
and  the  Boraitha  speaks  of  a  case  which  was  already  done,  where 
suspicion  is  no  sufHcient  basis  for  forbidding.  And  whence  do 
we  know  that  such  difference  is  considered?  From  a  Mishna 
which  states  that  a  woman  captured  by  a  heathen  because  of  a 
civil  case  is  allowed  to  her  husband,  but  not  if  captured  because 
of  a  criminal  case.  We  see,  then,  that  although  our  Mishna 
forbids  a  woman  to  stay  alone  with  a  heathen,  yet  the  act  hav- 
ing taken  place,  she  is  allowed  to  return  (hence  there  is  a  dififer- 
ence  between  starting  an  act  and  an  act  done).  But  perhaps  the 
reason  why  she  is  allowed  to  her  husband  when  captured  be- 
cause of  a  civil  case,  is  that  the  heathen  was  afraid  to  touch  her 
lest  he  lose  his  money?  And  such  seems  to  be  the  case,  as  the 
second  part  states:  If  because  of  a  criminal  case,  she  is  not 
allowed ;  and  to  this  discussion  nothing  is  to  be  added.  R. 
Pdath  said :  The  difference  between  our  Mishna  and  the  Boraitha 
is  to  be  explained  thus:  The  former  is  in  accordance  with  R. 
Eliezer  of  a  Mishna  (par.  II.  i),  and  the  Boraitha  is  in  accord- 
ance with  the  rabbis  thereof,  as  according  to  the  former,  the  red 
cow  must  not  be  bought  from  a  heathen;  and  according  to  the 
latter,  it  may.  And  the  reason  is  the  above  suspicion  which, 
according  to  one,  is  considered,  and  according  to  the  other,  it  is 
not.  But  perhaps  there  is  another  reason,  as  Shila  explained. 
The  reason  of  R.  Eliezer  is,  in  the  following  [Numb.  xix.  2] : 
"  Speak  unto  the  children  of  Israel  that  they  bring  unto  thee 
a  completely  red  cow,"  which  signifies  that  the  children  of  Israel 
shall  bring,  but  not  other  nations?  This  cannot  scarcely  be  the 
reason,  as  the  latter  part  states:  "And  so  has  Eliezer  invali- 
dated all  the  sacrifices  which  were  bought  from  heathens,"  to 
which  the  above  reason  cannot  apply,  as  concerning  them  such 
an  expression  is  not  used.  But  perhaps  the  rabbis  differ  with 
R.  Eliezer  concerning  the  red  cow  only  because  of  its  great 
value,  which  the  heathens  would  not  like  to  lose;  but  concern- 
ing other  sacrifices,  would  they  agree  with  R.  Eliezer?     Nay; 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  43 

in  the  first  place  there  is  a  Boraitha :  One  may  buy  from  them 
cattle  for  the  purpose  of  sacrificing,  which  would  be  neither  in 
accordance  with  the  rabbis,  nor  with  R.  Eliezer;  and  secondly, 
it  states  there  plainly:  The  rabbis  have  answered  to  R.  Eliezer 
with  [Is.  Ix.  7]:  "  All  the  flocks  of  Kedar  .  .  .  upon  my  altar." 
But  is,  indeed,  "  suspicion  "  the  reason  of  R.  EHezer's  statement; 
is  there  not  a  Boraitha:  The  sages  then  said  to  R.  Eliezer:  We 
know  of  a  case  that  the  red  cow  was  bought  from  a  heathen  by 
the  name  of  Dama  or  Remetz;  and  he  answered:  This  is  no  evi- 
dence, as  the  Israelites  had  watched  over  it  from  the  time  it  was 
created?  R.  EHezer's  reason  was  both — the  expression  concern- 
ing a  red  cow  cited  above,  and  also  "  suspicion." 

R.  Ami  and  R.  Itz'hak  of  Naf'ha  were  sitting  on  the  bal- 
cony at  the  latter's.  One  of  them  began  with  the  last  part  cited 
above,  "  so  has  R.  Eliezer  invalidated  all  the  sacrifices,"  etc., 
to[]which  the  other  quoted  that  which  his  colleagues  answered 
him,  with  the  above-cited  verse,  "  all  the  flocks  of  Kedar,"  etc., 
and  R.  Eliezer  rejoined:  This  is  no  evidence  either,  as  the 
nations  about  whom  the  cited  verse  reads  will  all  become  prose- 
lytes in  the  future.  R.  Joseph  infers  this  from  [Zeph,  iii.  9]: 
"  Yea,  then  will  I  change  unto  the  people  a  pure  language,  that 
they  may  all  call  on  the  name  of  the  Lord."  And  to  the  oppo- 
sition of  Abayi  R.  Joseph:  Perhaps  it  means  that  they  will  re- 
pent^from  idolatry  only?  Abayi  R.  Joseph  answered:  The  verse 
ends  with:  "  To  serve  Him  with  one  accord."  So  taught  R. 
Papa.  R.  Zebid,  however,  reverses  the  order  of  Abayi  R. 
Joseph,  adding  that  both  quoted  the  verse  of  Zeph. 

It  reads  [I  Sam.  vi.  12J :  "  And  the  cows  went  straight  for- 
ward,"* etc.  What  does  this  expression  mean?  Said  R.  Jo- 
hanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Mair:  They  sang  a  song.  And  R. 
Zuthra  b.  Tubiah,  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  They  have  straightened 
their  faces  to  look  upon  the  ark,  and  sang  a  song.  What  song 
was  it?  R.  Johanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Mair  [Ex.  xv.  i]  :  "  Then 
sang  Moses,"  etc.  And  R.  Johanan  himself  said  [Is.  xii.  4]: 
"  And  ye  shall  say  on  that  day,  Give  thanks  unto  the  Lord,  call 
on  his  name,"  etc.  And  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish  said  [Psalm 
xcviii.  I,  2]:  "  Oh  sing  unto  the  Lord  a  new  song;  for  he  hath 
done  wonderful  things ;  his  right  hand  and  his  holy  arm  have 
gotten  him  the  victory.  (2)  The  Lord  hath  made  known  his 
salvation,  before  the  eyes  of  the  nations  hath  he  revealed  his 

*  The  term  in  Hebrew  is  vaysharnha,  and  song  in  Hebrew  is  shira. 


44  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

righteousness."  And  R.  Elazar  said  [ibid.  xcix.  i]:  "The 
Lord  reigneth,"  etc.  And  R.  Samuel  b.  Na'hmani  [ibid,  xciii. 
i];  and  R.  Itzchak  of  Naf'ha  said:  They  sang:  Sing,  sing,  thou 
ark,  arise  in  this  great  journey  thou  that  art  decorated  with 
golden  embroidery  which  is  placed  in  the  great  palace,  adorned 
with  the  best  ornaments.  R.  Ashi  taught  the  saying  of  R. 
Itz'hak  to  [Numb.  x.  35]:  "  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  the  ark 
set  forward  that  Moses  said,"  etc.  And  what  did  Israel  say? 
The  above  that  R.  Itz'hak  said:  It  reads  [Jos.  x.  13]:  "And 
the  sun  stood  still  .  .  .  written  in  the  book  of  Yashar. "  What 
is  the  book  of  Yashar?  Said  R.  Hyya  b.  Aba  in  the  name  of 
R.  Johanan :  The  book  in  which  the  birth  of  Abraham,  Isaac 
and  Jacob,  who  are  named  Josharim  (the  upright)  is  meant,  as 
it  reads  [Numb,  xxiii.  10] :  "  May  my  soul  die  the  death  of  the 
righteous."  And  where  is  the  hint  to  be  found  there  [Gen. 
xlviii.  19]  :  "  And  his  seed  shall  become  a  multitude  of  nations." 
This  occurred  when  Jehoshua"  stopped  the  sun."  [Jos.  x.  13]: 
"  And  the  sun  stood  still  in  the  midst  of  the  heavens,  and  hast- 
ened not  to  go  down  about  a  whole  day."  How  many  hours? 
Said  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi:  Twenty-four;  it  was  running  six  and 
stopped  six,  running  six,  and  stopped  six,  four  times;  R.  Elazar 
said:  Thirty-six,  it  ran  six  and  stopped  twelve,  etc.  Samuel  b. 
Na'hmani  said:  Forty-eight,  it  ran  six  and  stopped  twelve;  ran 
six  and  stopped  twenty-four.  According  to  others,  the  above 
differ  in  the  additional  hours  of  that  day.  There  is  a  Boraitha: 
As  the  sun  stopped  for  Joshua,  so  did  it  stop  for  Moses,  etc. 
(See  Taanith,  p.  52.  The  rabbis  taught  the  whole  paragraph.) 
An  objection  was  raised  from  [ibid.,  ibid.  14]:  "  And  there  was 
no  day  like  that  before  it  or  after  it  "?  If  you  wish,  in  the  time 
of  Moses  it  stopped  for  fewer  hours,  or  if  you  wish,  it  may  be 
said  that  in  Moses'  time  there  were  no  hailstones  mentioned 
[ibid.,  ibid.  11]. 

It  reads  [II  Sam.  i.  18]:  "  The  bow,  behold  it  is  written  in 
the  book  of  Yashar."  (What  does  Yashar  mean?  Said  R. 
'Hyye  b.  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  "  Genesis"  as  said 
above.)  And  where  the  allusion?  [Gen.  xlix.  8]:  "  Thy  hand 
shall  be  on  the  neck  of  thy  enemies. "  Which  is  the  weapon 
that  needs  the  hand  against  the  neck?  It  is  the  bow.  R. 
Eliezer,  however,  maintains  that  the  book  of  Yashar  means 
Deuteronomy.  And  why  is  it  named  Yashar?  Because  there 
is  written  [vi.  18]:  "And  thou  shalt  do  that  which  is  right 
(Yashar)  and  good  in  the  eyes  of  the  Lord."     And  where  is  the 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  45 

allusion?  [xxxiii.  7]:  "Let  the  power  of  his  hands."  And 
which  is  the  weapon  to  which  both  hands  are  needed?  The 
bow.  R.  Samuel  b.  Na'hmani  said:  It  is  the  book  of  Judges  in 
which  [xvii.  6]:  "  Everyman  did  what  seemed  right  (Yashar) 
in  his  eyes.  And  where  is  the  allusion?  [iii.  2]:  *' To  teach 
them  war."  And  to  which  weapon,  teaching  is  needed?  The 
bow. 

"  A  woman  must  not  stay  alone,''  etc.  Let  us  see  how  is  the 
case?  If  it  means  she  must  not  stay  alone  with  one  heathen,  is 
this,  then,  allowed  with  an  Israelite?  Is  there  not  a  Mishna: 
One  must  not  stay  alone  even  with  two  women?  And  if  it 
means  she  should  not  stay  with  even  three  of  them,  is  there  a 
similar  case  allowed  with  three  licentious  Israelites?  Is  there 
not  a  Mishna:  A  woman  may  stay  with  two  persons?  And 
Jehuda,  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  Provided  they  are  right- 
eous men,  but,  if  they  were  licentious,  even  if  they  would  be 
ten,  she  must  not,  as  it  once  happened  that  a  woman  was  alone 
with  ten  and  was  insulted.  It  means  even  when  his  wife  is  with 
him.  As  to  Israelite's,  his  wife  guards  him,  which  is  not  the 
case  with  a  heathen.  But  why  not  say  that  because  they  are 
suspected  of  bloodshed?  Said  R.  Jeremiah:  It  speaks  of  a  re- 
spectable woman  whom  they  feared  to  kill.  R.  Idi,  however, 
maintains  that  there  is  no  fear  of  bloodshed,  even  with  any 
woman,  for  usually  her  weapons  are  upon  her  (they  insult,  but 
do  not  kill).  And  what  is  the  difference  between  the  two  rea- 
sons? If  the  woman  was  respected  by  the  government,  but  not 
among  her  colleagues,  then,  according  to  R.  Jeremiah,  there  is 
no  fear  for  bloodshed,  but  of  insult,  and  according  to  R.  Idi  the 
same  is  the  case  with  any  woman.  And.  there  is  a  Boraitha  in 
accordance  with  R.  Idi — viz. :  A  woman,  although  her  weapon 
is  usually  with  her,  must  nevertheless  not  stay  alone  with 
heathens,  because  they  are  suspected  of  insult. 

*'  A  male  must  not  stay  alone,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught :  If 
an  Israelite  while  on  the  road,  happened  to  be  accompanied  by 
a  heathen,  he  should  so  manage  that  the  heathen  should  be  on 
his  right  hand.  Ismael  b.  R.  Johanan  b.  Broka,  however,  said : 
If  the  heathen  was  provided  with  a  sword,  the  Israelite  shall 
manage  that  he  shall  be  on  his  right  side,  and  if  with  a  cane,  on 
his  left  side  (so  that  it  shall  be  easier  for  the  Israelite  to  protect 
himself).  If  they  have  to  ascend  or  to  descend,  the  Israelite 
must  not  be  on  the  bottom  and  the  heathen  on  the  top,  but  the 
contrary.     Nor  shall  the  Israelite  bend  himself  in  the  heathen's 


46  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

presence,  for  fear  the  heathen  may  break  his  skull.  If  the 
heathen  question  him  to  what  place  he  goes,  he  shall  make  the 
distance  longer  as  did  Jacob  our  father  to  Esau  the  wicked  [Gen. 
xxxiii.  14]:  "  Until  I  come  unto  my  Lord  to  Se'ir."  And  (17) 
reads:  "  And  Jacob  journeyed  to  Succoth  "  (which  was  much 
nearer  than  Se'ir).  It  happened  to  the  disciples  of  R.  Aqiba 
while  on  the  road,  to  meet  robbers,  who  questioned  them,  Where 
are  you  going?  And  they  answered,  To  Akhau.  However^ 
when  they  reached  the  City  of  Khzib  they  separated.  The  rob- 
bers then  questioned  them,  Whose  disciples  are  you?  And  they 
answered.  Of  R.  Akiba.  To  which  the  robbers  rejoined,  Well 
is  to  Akiba  with  his  disciples,  who  are  careful  not  to  be  afflicted 
by  bad  men.  R.  Mnashi  was  on  the  road  to  the  City  of 
Thurtha  and  he  met  thieves,  who  asked  him  where  he  was  going, 
and  he  said.  To  Pumbadithe.  When  they  reached  Thurtha  he 
separated  from  them.  Said  they,  You  must  be  a  disciple  of 
Jehuda  the  deceiver.  To  which  he  rejoined.  Do  you  know  him 
(R.  Jehuda)  and  dare  to  call  him  deceiver?  I  put  you  under 
ban.  The  thieves  then  engaged  in  thievery  for  thirty-two  years, 
but  did  not  succeed,  so  that  they  were  afterward  compelled  to 
come  to  R.  Mnashi  asking  for  a  release.  One  of  them,  who 
was  a  weaver,  did  not  care  to  come  to  ask  for  a  release,  and  was 
finally  devoured  by  a  lion.  Come  and  see  the  difference  be- 
tween the  thieves  of  Babylon  and  the  robbers  of  Palestine  (the 
latter  had  praised  the  disciples  who  separated  from  them,  and 
the  former  scolded  him). 

MISHNA  //. :  A  daughter  of  an  Israelite  must  not  confine 
a  heathen,  because  she  confines  a  person  to  idolatry;  however, 
a  heathen  may  confine  an  Israelite.  The  same  is  the  case  with 
nursing,  an  Israelite  must  not  nurse  the  child  of  a  heathen, 
while  the  latter,  being  under  the  control  of  the  former,  may 
do  so. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  One  must  not  confine  a 
heathen  because  she  brought  up  a  person  to  idolatry,  nor  must 
a  heathen  confine  an  Israelite,  because  they  are  suspected  of 
bloodshed;  so  R.  Mair.  The  sages,  however,  say:  The  latter 
may,  in  the  presence  of  others,  but  not  when  she  is  alone  in  the 
confinement.  R.  Mair,  however,  does  not  allow  this  because 
she  may  put  her  hand  on  the  skull  of  the  child  and  kill  it,  while 
the  others  standing  by  would  not  notice  it.  As  it  happened,  a 
heathen  woman  who  reproached  her  colleague  of  being  a  Jew — 
confiner — daughter  of  a  Jew  confiner,  and  she  answered:  Is  it 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  47 

not  sufficient  the  injury  I  have  done  to  the  Jews  by  decreasing 
them,  killing  their  children  at  the  birth,  and  I  shed  their  blood 
like  water.  The  rabbis,  however,  maintained  that  this  counts 
for  nothing,  as  she  boasted  only. 

"  A7i  Israelite  must  not  nurse,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  One 
must  not  nurse  a  child  of  a  heathen,  because  she  brings  up  a 
person  to  idolatry,  neither  must  a  heathen  woman  nurse  a  Jewish 
child,  because  she  is  suspected  of  bloodshed;  so  R.  Main  The 
sages,  however,  say  the  latter  might  do  so  in  the  presence  of 
others,  but  not  when  she  is  alone  with  the  child.  R.  Mair,  how- 
ever, maintains  that  even  in  the  presence  of  others  she  may  smear 
the  breasts  with  poison  and  kill  the  child,  while  the  others  present 
will  not  notice  it.  A  contradiction  was  raised  from  the  follow- 
ing: A  Jewess  may  confine  a  heathen  for  the  reward  but  not 
gratuitously?  Said  R.  Joseph:  For  reward  it  is  permissible,  in 
order  to  avoid  animosities.  The  rabbis  taught:  An  Israelite  may 
circumcise  the  child  of  a  heathen  for  the  purpose  of  proselytism, 
but  not  for  the  purpose  of  curing,  and  a  heathen  must  not  do 
so  to  an  Israelite  because  he  is  suspected  of  bloodshed.  The 
sages,  however,  maintain  that  the  latter  may  do  so  in  the  pres- 
ence of  Israelites,  but  not  when  he  is  alone  with  the  child. 
Does  indeed  R.  Mair  hold  that  a  heathen  must  not  circumcise 
an  Israehte?  Is  there  not  a  Boraitha:  A  city  in  which  there  is 
no  Jewish  physician  but  a  Samaritan  and  a  heathen,  the  heathen 
shall  circumcise  and  not  the  Samaritan ;  so  R.  Mair.  R.  Jehuda, 
however,  maintains  the  converse,  that  the  Samaritan  should  have 
the  preference?  Reverse  the  names  in  the  cited  Boraitha;  but 
how  can  you  say  that  Jehuda  permits  a  heathen  to  do  the  cir- 
cumcision? Is  there  not  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jehuda  said:  Whence 
do  we  know  that  a  circumcision  which  was  performed  by  a 
heathen  is  invalid?  From  [Gen.  xvii.  9] :  "  But  thou,  for  thy 
part,  shalt  keep  my  covenant"  (which  means  thou  and  not  a 
heathen).  Therefore,  the  names  in  the  above-cited  Boraitha  are 
correctly  placed  and  must  not  be  reversed,  as  it  speaks  of  an 
established  physician,  who  would  not  spoil  his  reputation  by 
doing  harm  to  an  Israelite,  as  R.  Dimi,  when  he  came  from 
Palestine,  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  That  an  established 
heathen  physician  may  be  trusted  to  do  everything  for  an  Israel- 
ite. But  how  can  you  say  that  R.  Jehuda  permits  a  Samaritan 
to  circumcise  an  Israelite?  Is  there  not  a  Boraitha:  An  Israel- 
ite may  circumcise  a  heathen,  but  a  Samaritan  must  not  do  so 
to  an  Israelite,  because  he  is  doing  this  in  the  name  of  his  idol 


48  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

in  the  Mount  Gerism.  And  R.  Jose  said  to  him :  Where  do  we 
find  that  circumcision  must  be  done  in  the  name  of  Heaven,  etc. 
(hence,  we  see  that  R.  Jehuda  does  not  permit  a  Samaritan). 
Therefore  we  must  say  that  the  names  of  the  Boraitha  in  ques- 
tion are  to  be  reversed,  and  the  contradiction  from  one  state- 
ment of  R.  Jehuda  to  the  other  presents  no  difficulty,  as  R. 
Jehuda  of  the  contradictory  Boraitha  means  R.  Jehuda  the 
prince,  whom  we  heard  stating  elsewhere  just  the  same  as  the 
Boraitha  teaches. 

It  was  taught:  Whence  do  we  know  that  a  circumcision 
made  by  a  heathen  is  invalid?  Daru  b.  Papa  in  the  name  of 
Rabh  said:  From  the  above-cited  verse  [Gen.  xvii.  9],  and  R. 
Johanan  maintains  from  [ibid.,  ibid.  13].  And  what  is  the  dif- 
ference between  them?  If  a  woman  is  commanded  to  circumcise 
her  child,  according  to  Rabh  she  is  not,  and  according  to  R. 
Johanan  she  is.  But  is  there  one  who  holds  that  a  woman  is 
not  commanded  to  circumcise,  does  it  not  read  [Ex.  iv.  25]: 
"Then  took  Zipporah  a  sharp  instrument,"  etc.?  Well,  she 
has  done  this  through  a  messenger;  or,  if  you  wish,  it  may  be 
said  that  she  began  and  Moses  himself  finished. 

MISHNA  ///. :  One  may  employ  their  (the  heathens')  ser- 
vices for  curing  his  personal  property,  but  not  for  curing  the 
body.  However,  cutting  hair  by  them  is  prohibited  at  any 
place;  so  R.  Mair.  The  sages,  however,  maintain:  One  may 
do  so  in  a  public  place,  but  not  when  he  is  alone  with  him. 

GEMARA:  What  do  personal  property  and  body  mean? 
The  former  is,  e.g.,  his  cattle,  and  body  means  human  being. 
And  this  is  what  R.  Jehudah  said :  No  imperfection,  not  even 
so  much  as  the  mark  of  bleeding,  must  be  taken  from  them. 
Said  R.  Hisda  in  the  name  of  Mar  Uqba:  If,  however,  the 
heathen  said  to  him  that  such  and  such  a  medicine  is  good,  and 
such  and  such  is  bad,  he  may  use  his  advice,  since  the  heathen 
thinks:  as  he  asks  me,  so  will  he  ask  some  other  one,  and  should 
I  give  him  wrong  advice,  I  would  be  ridiculed.  Rabba,  accord- 
ing to  others,  R.  'Hisda,  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said:  If 
there  is  a  doubt  as  to  whether  the  sick  will  recover  or  die,  the 
heathen  must  not  be  taken  for  curing,  but  if  it  is  certain  that 
he  will  die,  it  is  allowed.  But  why  let  it  be  feared,  perhaps  he 
will  foster  his  death?  This  is  not  to  be  taken  in  consideration. 
And  whence  do  we  know  that  so  it  is?  From  [II  Kings,  vii.  9]: 
"  If  we  say.  We  will  enter  into  the  city,  then  is  the  famine  in 
the  city,  and  we  will  die  "  ;  and  they  did  not  take  into  consider- 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  49 

ation  that  should  they  fall  in  the  hands  of  the  enemy,  they 
would  be  killed  immediately.  An  objection  was  raised  from  the 
following:  One  must  not  interfere  with  the  Minim  and  must 
not  cure  himself  by  them,  even  to  delay  death  for  but  a  few 
hours. 

As  it  happened  to  ben  Dama,  the  son  of  Ismael's  sister,  to 
be  bitten  by  a  snake,  Jacob,  of  the  village  of  Skhania,  came  to 
heal  him  with  the  name  of  Jesus,  but  R.  Ismael  did  not  allow. 
The  patient,  however,  said  to  him :  Ismael,  my  brother,  let  him 
cure  me  and  I  will  bring  you  evidence  from  the  Scripture  that 
such  is  allowed.  But  ere  he  finished  his  soul  departed,  and  R. 
Ismael  exclaimed :  Well  is  to  thee,  ben  Dama,  that  thy  body 
was  pure  and  thy  soul  left  thee  in  purity,  and  thou  hast  not 
transgressed  the  decision  of  thy  colleagues,  who  say  [Eccles.  vii]  : 
"  Him  who  breaketh  down  a  fence — a  serpent  will  bite  him." 
With  Minismus  it  is  different,  as  it  is  attractive  and  "  he  may  be 
induced  to  follow  them."  But  what  has  ben  Dama  to  say? 
[Lev.  xviii,  5]:  "  And  he  shall  live  with  them,"  but  not  he  shall 
die  with  them.  R.  Ismael,  however,  maintains  that  such  is 
allowed  only  privately,  but  not  in  public;  as  we  have  learned  in 
the  following  Boraitha:  R.  Ismael  used  to  say:  Whence  do  we 
know  that  if  one  is  told  to  worship  idols,  under  the  threat  of 
being  killed,  that  he  may  worship  and  not  be  killed?  From  the 
above-cited  verse — "  he  shall  live,"  etc.  But  lest  one  say  that 
this  may  be  done  publicly  also,  therefore  it  is  written  [ibid.  xxii. 
32]:  "  And  ye  shall  not  profane  my  holy  name."  Rabba  b.  b. 
Hanna  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said :  A  wound  inside  the 
body  must  not  be  cured  by  them.  R.  Johanan,  however,  when 
he  suffered  from  scurvy,  went  to  a  matron  of  Rome  for  a  cure 
(see  Tract  Yomah,  p.  128,  par.  "  R.  Mathiah  b.  Hersha,"  the 
whole  story,  229,  par.  "  Whatsoever).  But  how  did  R.  Johanan 
do  so?  Was  it  not  said  that  an  infliction  which  is  inside  the 
body  must  not  be  cured,  etc?  With  a  well-known  man,  like  R. 
Johanan,  it  is  different,  as  they  will  fear  to  harm  him.  But  was 
not  R.  Abuhu  a  well-known  man,  and  Jacob  the  Minn  prepared 
a  medicine  for  him  to  place  on  his  shoulder,  and  if  not  for  R. 
Ami  and  R.  Assi,  who  burnt  (cauterized)  his  shoulder  to  get  the 
poison  out,  he  would  have  died?  Yet  with  R.  Johanan  it  is  dif- 
ferent, as  he  himself  was  an  established  physician.  But  was  not 
R.  Abuhu  also  the  same?  As  the  latter  was  very  much  re- 
spected by  the  government,  and  was  badly  annoying  the  Minim 
by  his  frequent  discussions,  he  (Jacob  the  Min)  made  up  his 


50  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

mind  to  do  with  him  what  Samson  did  [Judges,  xvi.  30] :  "  Let 
me  die  with  the  Philistines." 

Samuel  said:  An  open  wound  (sabre  cut)  is  dangerous,  and 
one  may  violate  the  Sabbath  for  the  purpose  of  curing  it.  The 
remedy  to  stop  the  blood  is,  cress-dishes  mixed  with  vinegar,  of 
which  the  patient  shall  partake.  R.  Saphra  said :  An  enabta 
(carbuncle?)  is  a  forerunner  of  the  angel  of  death.  How  is  it 
cured?  Put  upon  it  a  rue  (plant)  with  honey,  or  radishes  with 
strong  wine.  While  these  remedies  are  being  prepared,  put 
meanwhile  on  the  sore  a  white  or  red  grape  according  as  the 
sore  is  white  or  red.  Rabba  said:  A  tumor  is  a  sure  symptom 
of  inflammation.  And  what  is  the  remedy  against  the  tumor? 
Hit  upon  it  with  the  fingers  sixty  times,  then  open  it  crosswise. 
If,  however,  the  tumor  has  a  white  spot  on  the  top,  all  this  is 
not  necessary,  as  it  is  not  dangerous  then. 

R.  Jacob  suffered  from  pain  in  the  abdomen,  and  R.  Ami, 
according  to  others  R.  Assi,  advised  him  to  take  seven  red 
grains  usually  found  in  the  wash-houses,  to  put  them  in  the 
linen  collar  of  an  old  shirt,  which  he  should  bind  with  a  cord 
made  of  the  hair  of  a  cattle;  then  he  should  immerse  it  in  white 
pitch  and  burn  it,  the  ashes  thereof  he  should  apply  to  the  sore 
place  and  relief  will  ensue.  While  the  preparation  of  this  is 
going  on,  he  may  meanwhile  apply  the  kernels  of  blackberries. 
This  remedy,  however,  is  effective  only  in  case  of  external  pains; 
for  internal  abdominal  pains  grease  the  sore  place  with  the 
molten  fat  of  a  goat  that  has  not  yet  born  any  offspring,  or  burn 
three  pumpkin  leaves  dried  in  the  shade  and  apply  the  ashes; 
also  almond-worms  or  olive-oil  and  wax  may  be  applied,  in  sum- 
mer on  linen,  in  winter  on  cotton. 

R.  Abuhu  suffered  once  from  an  ear-ache,  and  R.  Johanan 
advised  him,  according  to  others  he  was  told  in  the  college, 
what  R.  Abayi,  too,  heard  later  from  his  mother,  that  the  loins 
have  been  created  only  for  curing  ear-ache.  In  like  manner 
said  Rabba:  I  was  told  by  the  physician,  Miniumi,  that  all  fluids 
are  injurious  to  the  ear,  except  the  water  from  the  loins.  Thus, 
take  the  kidney  of  a  woolless  sheep,  cut  it  crosswise,  place  it  on 
burning  coals  and  collect  the  water  that  begins  then  to  flow 
from  it.  This  water,  when  it  is  neither  too  cold  nor  too  warm, 
syringe  into  the  ears.  Or  one  may  rub  in  the  ears  with  the 
molten  fat  of  a  big  chafer.  The  following  is  another  good 
remedy  for  ear-ache:  Fill  the  sick  ear  with  olive-oil,  then  make 
of  wheat-straw  seven  wicks,  and  with  the  hairs  of  a  cattle  attach 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  51 

to  them  the  peel  of  garh'c;  kindle  these  wicks  and  put  them 
into  the  olive-oil  in  the  ear,  taking,  of  course,  precautions 
against  burning  the  patient;  when  one  wick  has  been  thus  burnt 
to  the  end,  take  the  next  one,  etc.,  until  the  pains  cease.  How- 
ever, seven  ordinary  wicks  would  also  do,  if  dipped  in  hayseed- 
oil  (?);  but  in  this  case  one  must  be  heedful  of  the  wind.  Here 
is  yet  another  remedy:  Put  into  the  ear  dyed  unbeaten  cotton 
and,  taking  heed  of  the  wind,  keep  the  ear  over  the  fire.  Also 
this  remedy  is  recommendable:  Take  a  rush  that  was  cut  down 
one  hundred  years  ago,  fill  it  with  mineral  salt,  burn  all  this  and 
strew  the  ashes  in  the  ears.  It  must  also  be  noted  that  for 
secreting  ears  the  remedies  must  be  dry,  while  for  aching  ears 
that  do  not  secrete,  moist  remedies  must  be  used. 

Rabha  b.  Zutra  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Hanina:  It  is  allowed 
to  straighten  the  ears  on  Sabbath.  Observed  R.  Samuel  b. 
Jehudah:  Provided  it  is  done  with  the  hand  and  not  with  medi- 
cine. According  to  others  the  converse  is  allowed,  i.e.,  to 
straighten  the  ears  on  Sabbath  by  means  of  medicine  and  not  by 
the  hands,  for  it  is  to  be  feared  that  with  the  hand  one  may 
make  a  wound. 

R.  Zutra  b.  Tubia  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  He  who  is  in 
danger  of  losing  an  eye  is  allowed  to  accept  cure  on  Sabbath. 
This,  however,  was  understood  to  be  allowed  only  when  the 
medicine  was  prepared  before  Sabbath;  but  to  prepare  it  on 
Sabbath  and  carry  it  through  the  public  grounds  is  not  allowed. 
Hereupon  said  one  of  the  rabbis,  named  R.  Jacob:  I  have  heard 
it  from  R.  Jehudah  that  it  is  allowed  under  the  said  circum- 
stances to  prepare  the  medicine  on  Sabbath  and  carry  it  through 
the  public  streets.  R.  Jehudah  allowed  to  cure  eye-diseases  on 
Sabbath.  Thereupon  said  R.  Samuel  b.  Jehudah:  Who  will 
listen  to  this  R.  Jehudah  who  thus  profanes  the  Sabbath?  But  it 
happened  that  he  himself  got  sore  eyes,  and  he  sent  to  consult 
the  same  (R.  Jehudah)  as  to  whether  or  no  it  is  allowed  (to 
cure  them  on  Sabbath)?  And  the  answer  came  back:  Every- 
body is  allowed,  but  not  you  (who  were  so  indignant  at  my 
decision);  was  it,  you  think,  my  own  opinion?  Nay;  it  was  the 
master,  Samuel,  whose  servant  got  an  inflamed  eye  on  Sabbath ; 
she  cried  the  whole  day  and  none  paid  attention  to  her,  and  on 
the  morrow  her  eye  jumped  out  of  its  orbit;  then  said  the  mas- 
ter, Samuel,  in  his  sermon:  It  is  allowed  to  cure  on  Sabbath 
eye-diseases  if  there  be  danger  of  losing  one's  eye;  and  why? 
Because  the  optic  nerves  are  dependent  on  the  heart. 


52  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

What  kind  of  eye-diseases  is  allowed  to  cure  on  Sabbath? 
Said  R.  Jehudah:  A  secreting  eye,  a  wounded  eye,  an  eye  cov- 
ered with  blood,  and  an  inflamed  eye.  In  the  beginning  of  the 
sickness  as  well  as  during  its  becoming  better,  it  is  not  allowed 
to  apply  medicine  on  Sabbath ;  nor  is  it  allowed  to  use  on  Sab- 
bath such  medicine  as  would  tend  to  sharpen  the  eye-sight. 

R.  Jehudah  said:  The  sting  of  a  wasp,  the  pricking  of  thorns, 
if  the  wounds  caused  by  either  are  swelling,  likewise  an  eye- 
disease  complicated  with  fever,  are  all  dangerous.  The  high 
temperature  in  these  cases  must,  therefore,  be  reduced  by  the 
application  of  radishes,  while  low  temperature  is  banished  by 
that  of  sea-radishes;  to  apply  the  one  for  the  other  entails  dan- 
ger. The  sting  of  a  lizard  must  be  cured  with  warm  medicines, 
while  that  of  a  hornet  with  cold  ones;  to  reverse  the  medicines, 
the  one  for  the  other,  also  here  entails  danger.  Likewise  are 
recommendable  warm  medicines  for  the  pricks  of  thorns,  and 
cold  ones  for  the  chapped  skin ;  to  reverse  is  dangerous. 

He  who  had  his  blood  let  should  not  eat  almonds,  nor  sit 
near  the  fire.  He  who  has  diseased  eyes  should  not  have  his 
blood  let,  for  it  is  in  this  condition  dangerous.  After  eating 
fish  one  should  wait  two  days  before  having  his  blood  let;  and 
after  bleeding  one  should  not  eat  fish  for  two  days.  Fish  on 
the  third  day  after  bleeding  is  harmful. 

The  rabbis  taught:  After  bleeding  one  should  not  eat  milk, 
cheese,  onions,  almonds;  but  if  one  has  carelessly  eaten  some 
of  these,  he  should,  according  to  Abaye,  drink  a  little  wine 
mixed  with  vinegar.  But  in  this  case,  one  must  go  outside  of 
the  city  for  his  natural  exigencies,  and  notably  toward  the  east, 
in  order  that  the  ill  odor  might  not  reach  the  city  (being  carried 
off  by  the  east  wind). 

R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi  said:  It  is  allowed  to  cure  on  Sabbath 
the  onk/j.  What  is  onkly?  Said  R.  Aba:  It  is  the  stomachus 
of  the  heart  (or  the  fleshy  valve  of  the  heart,  called  nibld).  And 
how  is  this  disease  cured?  By  an  ointment  prepared  of  cumin, 
soap,  mint  (fern),  wormwood,  cedar-blossom  and  hyssop.  All 
these  are  to  be  dissolved  in  wine,  and  is  good  for  the  heart ;  your 
sign  is  [Psalm,  civ.  15]:  "  Wirie  gladdens  the  human  heart." 
Against  flatulence  {tnach)  use  the  same,  but  dissolved  in  water; 
your  sign  is  [Gen.  i.  3]:  "  And  the  wind  {macJi)  of  the  Lord 
flits  over  the  water."  Against  pains  in  the  uterus  {kjida)  nsQ 
the  same  dissolved  in  beer,  and  your  sign  is  [ibid.  xxiv.  15]: 
"  She  had  her  pitcher  {kuadah)  on  her  shoulder." 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  53 

R.  Aha  b.  Rabba  prepared  of  the  above  herbs  a  powder  of 
which  he  dissolved  about  a  handful  and  drank  it.  R.  Asha  used 
to  prepare  a  powder  of  each  of  these  herbs  and  drink  a  dose 
from  each.  Said  R.  Papa:  I  had  tried  all  this  but  without  avail, 
until  an  Arabian  merchant  advised  me  to  fill  a  new  pitcher  with 
water,  put  therein  a  spoonful  of  honey,  leave,  then,  all  this  in 
the  open  air  over  night  and  drink  it  next  morning;  I  have  done 
so,  and  it  really  helped  me. 

The  sages  taught:  Six  things  are  good  for  all  diseases,  and 
they  are  as  follows:  green  colewort,  sea-radishes,  the  water  from 
dry  sisin  (a  Syrian  plant),  the  stomach,  the  uterus  (of  cattle), 
and  the  raw  meat  of  a  cow.  Other  sages  add  yet  small  fishes, 
which  possess  besides  medicinal  yet  the  property  of  making  one 
fecund  and  robust.  Furthermore,  ten  things  there  are  that  are 
detrimental  to  the  sick — viz. :  meat  of  an  ox,  fat,  roasted  meat, 
poultry,  roasted  eggs,  almonds,  a  hair-cut,  a  bath,  cheese,  and 
liver.     Others  add  yet  nuts  and  gourds. 

The  disciples  of  R.  Ismael  taught:  Why  are  gourds  called 
keshuin  (heavy)?  Because  they  are  as  harmful  and  heavy  to  the 
human  body  as  daggers. 

"  Ajid cutting  hair.''  The  Rabbis  taught:  An  Israelite  who 
cuts  his  hair  by  a  heathen,  may  look  in  the  looking-glass  (so 
that  the  heathen  shall  be  afraid  to  kill  him).  An  Israelite  who 
cuts  the  hair  of  a  heathen,  when  reaching  the  surrounding  of  his 
hair,  which  is  usually  for  the  purpose  of  worshipping  the  idol,  may 
drop  his  work.  The  master  said:  An  Israelite  who  cuts  his  hair 
by  a  heathen  shall  look  in  the  looking-glass.  Let  us  see  how  is 
the  case :  If  it  was  in  public  then  to  what  purpose  is  the  looking- 
glass,  and  if  privately,  what  can  the  looking-glass  help  (if  the 
heathen  would  like  to  kill  him  suddenly)?  It  means  privately; 
but  as  soon  as  he  has  a  looking-glass  in  his  work-shop,  it  seems 
to  be  a  respectable  place,  so  that  there  is  no  fear  of  killing.  R. 
'Hana  b.  Bizna  used  to  cut  his  hair  by  a  heathen,  in  the  by- 
streets of  N'hardea.  Atone  time  he  said  to  him,  'Hana,  'Hana, 
thou  hast  a  fine  neck  for  the  shears.  Said  he :  I  may  take  this 
as  a  punishment  for  not  following  R.  Mair's  decision.  (Says 
the  Gemara):  Did  he  then  follow  the  decision  of  the  rabbis? 
The  rabbis  also  permitted  in  public  only,  but  not  privately.  He 
thought  that  the  sideways  of  Nahardea  are  considered  public, 
as  many  people  pass  there. 

MISHNA  IV.'.  The  following  things  of  the  heathens  are 
prohibited,  and  the  prohibition  extends  even  to  the  deriving  of 


54  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

any  benefit  therefrom — viz. :  wine,  vinegar,  and  pieces  of  wine 
extract,  and  skins  in  which  there  are  holes  opposite  the  heart. 
R.  Simeon  b.  Gamah'el  adds:  Provided  the  hole  is  made  round, 
but  not  if  lengthwise.  Meat  which  is  entered  for  the  idol  is  not 
prohibited,  but  which  comes  out  of  it  is  prohibited,  as  it  is 
equivalent  to  the  offerings  of  the  dead.  Such  is  the  decree  of 
R.  Aqiba.  With  pilgrims  while  going  for  worship  one  must  not 
interfere,  but  with  those  who  are  coming  from,  one  may. 

The  bags  of  the  heathens,  the  pitchers  which  contain  wine  of 
an  Israelite,  are  forbidden  to  derive  any  benefit  from  them.  So 
R.  Mair.  The  sages,  however,  maintain:  They  are  forbidden, 
but  not  to  derive  benefit.  The  pressed  grapes  of  which  wine 
was  made  as  well  as  their  kernels  are  prohibited  for  any  benefit. 
So  R.  Mair.  The  sages,  however,  forbid  only  the  wet  ones,  but 
not  the  dry  ones.  Fish-oil  and  cheese  of  the  village  Aunyiki 
made  by  the  heathens  are,  according  to  R.  Mair,  prohibited  for 
any  benefit,  and  according  to  the  sages  the  using  is  prohibited, 
but  not  the  benefit.  Said  R.  Jehudah:  R.  Ismael  questioned 
R.  Jehoshua  while  they  were  on  the  road:  Why  have  the  sages 
prohibited  the  cheese  of  the  heathens,  and  he  answered:  Be- 
cause they  use  the  rennet  of  a  carcass  to  curdle  milk.  Said 
he  to  him:  The  rennet  of  a  burnt-offering  is  more  rigorous  than 
of  a  carcass,  and  nevertheless  a  priest,  who  is  not  so  particular, 
consumes  it  while  raw.  This,  however,  the  sages  did  not  admit, 
but  even  they  allow  no  benefit  therefrom,  although  its  use,  when 
made,  is  no  transgression.  Answered  R.  Jehoshua:  The  pro- 
hibition was  because  they  curdle  their  milk  with  the  rennet  of 
the  calves,  which  was  sacrificed  to  the  idol.  Thereupon  rejoined 
R.  Ismael:  If  such  is  the  case,  why  was  not  prohibited  all  bene- 
fit thereof?  R.  Jehoshua,  however,  was  not  prepared  to  answer 
him  this  question,  and  called  his  attention  to  another  thing: 
Ismael,  my  brother,  how  do  you  read  ([Solomon's  song,  i,  2]) 
Thy  caresses?  And  he  answered:  I  read  thy  as  masculine. 
To  which  Jehoshua  answered:  It  is  not  so,  as  further  on  (3)  it 
reads  feminine,  and  this  is  evidence  that  also  verse  2d  uses  thy 
;n  the  feminine. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  it  deduced  that  wine  is  prohibited? 
Said  Rabba  b.  Abuhu  from  [Deut.  xxxii.  38]:  "  They  that  ate 
the  fat  of  their  sacrifices,  and  drank  the  wine  of  their  drink- 
offerings,"  i.e.,  as  from  a  sacrifice  no  benefit  must  be  derived, 
the  same  is  the  case  with  wine.  And  whence  do  we  know  that 
such  is  the  case  with  a  sacrifice  itself?     From  [Psalm  cvi.  28]: 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  55 

"  And  they  joined  themselves  unto  Ba'-al-pe'or,  and  ate  the 
sacrifice  of  the  dead,"  hence,  as  from  a  dead  one  no  benefit 
must  be  derived,  so  is  it  with  a  sacrifice.  But  whence  does  it 
follow  that  no  benefit  is  to  be  derived  from  a  dead?  From  the 
analogy  of  expression  "  there,"  which  is  to  be  found  in  [Numb. 
XX.  i]:  "  And  Miriam  died  there,"  and  in  [Deut.  xxi.  4]:  "  And 
shall  break  there,"  hence,  as  from  the  latter  no  benefit  must  be 
derived,  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  dead.  But  whence  do  we 
know  that  so  is  the  case  with  the  heifer?  Said  the  disciples  of 
R.  Janai,  in  verse  8  of  that  passage  it  is  mentioned:  "  Atone 
for  thy  people,"  etc.,  and  from  the  sacrifices  which  atone,  it  is 
known  no  benefit  must  be  derived. 

Wine -vine gar,"  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evident,  that  because 
the  wine  becomes  sour  the  prohibition  no  longer  holds?  Said 
R.  Ashi:  It  comes  to  teach  that  if  there  was  sour  vinegar  in  the 
hands  of  the  heathens,  there  is  no  necessity  to  seal  it  with  two 
seals,  one  on  the  top  of  the  other  as  it  is  necessary  for  wine;  and 
the  reason  is  that  the  heathens  do  not  offer  vinegar  to  the  idols, 
nor  is  the  fear,  perhaps  they  will  change  it,  to  be  taken  into 
consideration,  as  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  the  heathen  will  not 
trouble  himself  to  break  the  seal  for  this  purpose.  Said  R.  Ilai: 
We  have  learned  elsewhere  that  cooked  wine  of  the  heathens  is 
prohibited,  and  to  the  objection  that  this  is  self-evident,  as  the 
prohibition  is  not  annulled  by  cooking,  R.  Ashi  said:  It  means 
to  teach  us  that  our  cooked  wine  seals  with  one  seal,  and  in  the 
possession  of  a  heathen  is  valid  for  the  reason  stated  above. 

The  rabbis  taught:  Cooked  wine  and  aluntith  (oil  wine)  of 
the  heathens  are  prohibited ;  however,  an  aluntith  of  an  Israel- 
ite when  in  the  possession  of  a  heathen  is  allowed.  As  we  have 
learned  concerning  Sabbath  the  difference  between  oil-wine  and 
honey  wine  (see  Sabbath,  p.  316,  par.  "  One  may  make  honey 
wine").  Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  both  said:  Wine  mixed  with 
water  is  not  affected  when  it  remains  uncovered  overnight,  and 
to  cooked  wine,  the  prohibition  of  offering-wine  does  not  apply. 

The  schoolman  propounded  a  question:  How  is  it  with 
cooked  wine?  Does  the  uncovering  affect  it  or  not?  Come  and 
hear:  Jacob  b.  Ibi  has  testified  that  the  case  of  uncovering  does 
not  apply  to  cooked  wine. 

R.  Janai  b.  Ismael  once  took  sick  and  R.  Ismael  b.  Zirud 
and  the  rabbis  came  to  make  him  a  sick-call,  and  while  sitting 
there  they  questioned  if  the  case  of  uncovery  applies  to  cooked 
wine.     Said  Ismael  b.  Zirud  to  them:  Rash  Lakish  said  in  the 


56  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

name  of  a  great  man,  who  is  R.  Hyye,  that  to  such  the  case  o. 
uncovery  does  not  apply.  And  to  their  question  as  to  the  vah'd- 
ity  of  this  Halakha,  R.  Janai  b.  Ismael  made  a  gesture  with  his 
hand  as  if  saying,  "  upon  me  and  my  neck." 

Samuel  and  Ablat  were  sitting  together,  and  cooked  wine 
was  brought  for  them.  The  latter,  who  was  a  heathen,  removed 
his  hand  in  order  not  to  touch  the  wine  and  make  it  unvalid. 
Said  Samuel  to  him:  It  was  already  said  that  concerning  cooked 
wine  no  fear  of  offering  is  to  be  entertained. 

The  servant  of  R.  Hyye  had  uncovered  cooked  wine  and  she 
came  to  ask  her  master,  to  which  he  answered,  it  was  decided: 
to  cooked  wine  no  uncovering  applies.  The  servant  of  Ada 
b.  A'habah  had  uncovered  the  mixture  of  wine  and  came 
to  ask  his  master  if  it  is  valid,  to  which  he  answered:  It  is 
decided  that  the  case  of  uncovering  does  not  apply  to  mixed 
wine.  Said  R.  Papa  to  him:  Provided  the  wine  is  mixed 
with  much  water,  but  if  not,  the  snake  drinks  of  it,  hence 
such  is  affected  by  uncovery.  Is  that  so?  It  happened  with 
Rabba  b.  R.  Huna,  who  was  on  a  boat  and  had  wine  with 
him.  Once,  perceiving  a  snake  coming  to  partake  of  it,  he  said 
to  his  servant:  Blind  the  eye  of  this  by  making  the  wine  unfit. 
And  he  took  a  little  water  and  put  it  in  the  wine;  the  snake 
then  turned  back.  The  answer  is  that  for  raw  wine  the  snake 
usually  risks  his  life  to  get  it,  which  he  does  not  do  for  mixed 
wine. 

But  was  it  not  told  of  R.  Janai  or  Bar  Hedia  who,  while  in  the 
City  of  Akhburi,  saw  the  people  there  drink  mixed  wine,  the 
remainder  of  which  they  put  in  a  pitcher,  covered  it  with  cloth, 
and  put  it  aside;  then  they  saw  a  snake  putting  water  into  the 
pitcher  until  it  became  full,  and  then  drinking  the  wine  which 
was  coming  up  to  the  top  of  the  water  (hence  you  see  that  a 
snake  drinks  out  of  mixed).  The  explanation  is  that  it  may 
drink  from  that  which  is  mixed  by  itself,  but  not  from  that 
which  is  mixed  by  some  one  else.  Said  R.  Ashi,  according  to 
others,  Mesharshia:  Should  one  rely  upon  suppositions  in  a  case 
which  is  dangerous?  (Therefore  there  is  no  difference  between 
mixed  and  raw  wine;  neither  must  be  used  if  it  was  uncovered, 
for  fear  that  a  snake  drank  from  it.)  Said  Rabba:  The  Halakha 
prevails  thus:  to  mixed  wine  both  uncovering  and  offering 
apply,  while  to  cooked  wine  neither  applies. 

The  servant  of  R.  'Helkiha  b.  Tubi  had  uncovered  a  kista  of 
water  and  fell  asleep  nearby;  when  he  came  to  ask  his  master  if 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  57 

this  water  may  be  used,  he  answered:  The  snakes  are  said  to 
fear  a  sleeping  man,  provided  it  is  in  the  day-time,  but  not  at 
night.  (Said  the  Gemara):  In  reality  it  is  not  so.  The  suppo- 
sition that  a  snake  fears  a  sleeping  man  is  not  substantiated, 
and  the  time  makes  no  difference,  whether  day  or  night.  Rabh 
vowed  not  to  drink  water  at  the  house  of  Gentiles,  saying:  They 
are  not  careful  to  cover  the  water,  but  in  the  house  of  a  widow 
he  drank,  saying  that  although  she  does  not  know  the  Halakha 
of  uncovering,  she  nevertheless  uses  it,  because  she  did  so  while 
her  husband  was  alive.  Samuel,  however,  used  to  do  the  con- 
trary. At  a  widow's  house  he  would  not  drink,  saying  that,  as 
she  is  without  her  husband,  she  usually  does  not  care  to  cover; 
while  the  Gentiles,  although  not  particular  in  covering,  are  at 
least  particular  in  cleanliness,  and  they  cover  the  water  that 
nothing  should  fall  in  and  spoil  it.  According  to  others  Samuel 
did  not  drink  even  from  the  last.  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levy  said: 
There  are  three  kinds  of  wine  to  which  the  case  of  uncovering 
does  not  apply — viz.:  {a)  wine  that  is  both  sweet  and  bitter; 
{b)  that  is  so  strong  that  it  breaks  each  leather  bag,  and  {c)  wine 
that  will  become  sweet  when  warmed  in  the  sun.  Rabha  said: 
To  wine  which  begins  to  become  sour  the  first  three  days,  both 
cases  of  uncovery  and  offering  apply,  but  if  after  three  days, 
neither  case  applies.  The  sages  of  Nahardea  said  that  even  in 
the  latter  case  uncovery  applies,  as  it  happens  sometimes  that 
a  snake  drinks  such. 

The  rabbis  taught:  To  fermenting  wine  no  uncovery  applies; 
and  for  how  many  days  is  it  considered  fermented?  For  three 
days.  Nor  does  it  apply  to  cress-dish  (chopped  cress  mixed 
with  wine  or  oil).  However,  the  men  of  exile  consider  uncover- 
ing also  here,  provided  in  the  mixture  vinegar  was  not  used.  To 
Babylonian  Khutha'h  it  does  not  apply;  however,  the  men  of 
exile  do  apply  it. 

Said  R.  Menashi:  If  there  are  traces  of  snake  bites  in  it,  it 
must  not  be  used.  Hyah  b.  Ashi  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said: 
To  dripping  water  uncovering  does  not  apply.  Added  R.  Ashi: 
Provided  the  dripping  is  constant.  Samuel  said:  To  the  open- 
ing of  a  fig  when  it  is  torn  off,  uncovering  does  not  apply,  and 
this  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Eliezer  in  the  following  Boraitha, 
who  says:  One  may  eat  grapes  and  figs  at  night  without  fear,  as 
it  reads  [Psalm  cxvi.  6]:  "The  Lord  preserveth  the  simple." 
R.  Saffra  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehoshua  of  Rome:  There  are 
three  kinds   of   poison  coming  from  the  mouth  of  the  snake: 


58  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

that  of  a  young  one  sinks,  of  a  middle-aged,  remains  in  the  mid- 
dle, and  of  an  old  one,  floats  on  the  top.  Shall  we  assume  that 
the  snake  becomes  weaker  as  it  grows  older,  in  spite  of  this 
Boraitha:  There  are  three  who  become  stronger  as  they  grow 
older — viz:  a  fish,  a  snake,  and  a  pig?  Yea,  their  strength  is 
stronger,  but  the  poison  is  weaker.  But  to  what  purpose  is  the 
teaching  that  "  from  a  young  one  it  sinks,"  etc.?  To  that  we 
have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  From  a  barrel  which 
became  uncovered,  although  nine  persons  drank  from  it  and  re- 
mained alive,  the  tenth  person  must  not  drink,  as  it  once  hap- 
pened that  nine  men  drank  from  such  and  did  not  die,  the  tenth, 
however,  drank  and  died;  and  R.  Jeremiah  said:  That  was 
because  the  poison  sank  and  was  at  the  bottom.  The  same  is 
the  case  with  a  melon,  which  became  uncovered ;  one  must  not 
partake  of  it  even  if  nine  persons  before  him  partook  of  it  and 
were  not  harmed,  as  it  once  happened  that  nine  were  not 
harmed  and  the  tenth,  who  partook  of  it,  died. 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  must  not  pour  water  which  has  been 
uncovered  in  the  public  streets,  and  must  not  water  cattle  with 
it.  The  rabbis  taught :  One  must  not  pour  uncovered  water 
into  public  grounds,  nor  wetten  therewith  one's  own  house,  nor 
knead  clay,  or  water  one's  own  or  the  neighbor's  cattle  therewith, 
nor  wash  his  face,  hands,  or  feet  therewith.  But,  have  we  not 
learned  in  another  Boraitha  that  he  may  water  his  own  cattle  with 
it?  This  means  but  his  cat,  as  the  poison  of  a  snake  does  not 
harm  a  cat,  which  devours  a  snake.  But  if  so,  why  not  water  with 
it  the  cat  of  his  neighbor?  Because  it  becomes  meagre,  and  his 
neighbor  might  want  to  sell  it  at  that  time.  His  own,  however, 
he  may,  because  in  time  it  recovers  and  becomes  fat  again. 

R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  quoting  R.  Jehudah  b. 
Bathyra,  said:  There  are  three  kinds  of  wine  which  are  pro- 
hibited : 

From  that  which  was  sacrificed  to  the  idol,  one  must  derive 
no  benefit,  and  its  size  of  an  olive  defiles  a  rigorous  defilement 
him  who  touches  it.  Wine  of  the  heathen  in  general  (about 
which  it  is  not  certain  that  it  was  sacrificed)  is  also  forbidden  to 
derive  any  benefit,  and  the  size  of  a  quarter  of  a  "  lug  "  defiles 
just  as  other  beverages  which  do  not  defile  men  and  vessels  by 
touching.  But  from  the  wine  which  was  deposited  with  a 
heathen  by  an  Israelite  benefit  may  be  derived,  but  to  drink  it 
is  forbidden.  But  is  there  not  a  Mishna:  Fruit  deposited  with 
a  heathen  are  considered  as  the  heathen's,  concerning  tithe  on 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  59 

the  Sabbathical  year?  It  speaks  of  the  case  when  the  heathen 
has  separated  a  corner  for  the  wine  deposited.  But  if  so,  why 
is  it  forbidden  to  drink?  We  are  aware  of  the  following:  R, 
Johanan  happened  to  be  in  the  city  Prud  (the  place  where  Bar 
Kapahara  was  residing),  and  he  asked:  Is  someone  aware  of  the 
teaching  of  Bar  Kapahara  which  would  be  new  to  me?  And  R. 
Tau'hum  of  the  same  city  taught  before  him:  If  one  has  depos- 
ited his  wine  with  a  heathen,  he  may  drink  it.  To  which  R. 
Johanan  applied  [Eccles.  xi.  3]:  "  On  the  place  where  the  tree 
falleth,  it  will  remain,"  i.e.,  although  the  sage  is  dead,  his  fruit 
(teaching)  remains.  Hence  we  see  that  even  to  drink  the  wine 
is  allowed?  Said  R.  Zera:  This  presents  no  difificulty.  R. 
Johanan  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Eliezer,  who  permits  the  drink- 
ing also  (Sabbath,  p.  263),  while  the  Boraitha  is  in  accordance 
with  the  sages  who  do  not.  R.  Hiya  b.  R.  Hiya  b.  Na'hmani 
in  the  name  of  R.  Hisda,  quoting  Rabh,  or  quoting  Zehra,  ac- 
cording to  others  R,  Hisda,  said:  Abba  b.  Hama  told  me  that 
Zehri  said:  The  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Elezer.  R.  Elazar 
said:  Everything  which  is  deposited  with  a  heathen  is  preserved 
if  it  was  sealed  with  two  seals,  except  wine,  which  is  not  consid- 
ered preserved  even  with  two  seals.  R.  Johanan,  however, 
maintains  that  two  seals  preserve  wine,  too.  Both,  however, 
are  in  accordance  with  the  rabbis.  One  holds  that  the  rabbis 
differ  with  R.  Elezer  in  case  it  only  had  one  seal,  and  the  other 
holds  they  differ  with  him,  even  regarding  two  seals.  What  is 
meant  by  a  seal  within  a  seal?  Said  Rabha:  If  the  cork  in  the 
opening  of  a  barrel  was  besmeared  with  clay  and  sealed,  it  is 
considered  a  seal  within  a  seal,  but  not  if  there  was  only  one  of 
the  two. 

If  there  was  a  basket  over  the  barrel  attached  to  it,  it  is  con- 
sidered a  seal  within  a  seal,  but  not  otherwise. 

If  one  leather  bag  full  of  wine  was  placed  in  another,  mouth 
downward,  it  is  considered  two  seals,  but  not,  if  mouth  upward. 
However,  if  the  opening  was  placed  inside,  and  the  outer  bag 
was  tied  and  sealed,  it  is  considered  a  seal  within  a  seal. 

It  was  taught:  Why  did  the  sages  forbid  date-beer  of  the 
heathens?  Rami  b.  Hama  in  the  name  of  R.  Itz'haksaid:  As 
a  safeguard  against  intermarriage.  R.  Na'hman,  however,  said: 
Because  of  uncovering.  Uncovering  what?  If  the  barrel,  we, 
too,  do  uncover,  and  if  during  the  process  of  brewing,  we  also 
do  the  same.  It  speaks  of  those  places  where  they  used  to  clear 
the  water  before  using  it  for  the  beer,  and  at  that  time  they 


6o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

usually  uncovered  it.  But  if  so,  let,  then,  old  beer  be  permitted, 
as  there  is  no  fear  of  poisoning  (which  would  not  have  let  it 
become  old)?  The  old\s  forbidden  as  a  safeguard,  lest  one  use 
the  new. 

R.  Papa  used  to  stand  outside  of  the  store  of  the  heathen 
and  drink  his  beer;  R.  Abayi  drank  it  when  it  was  brought  to 
his  house,  but  not  elsewhere;  and  the  reason  of  both  was  the 
safeguard  against  intermarriage.  The  latter,  however,  was  more 
particular,  and  did  not  wish  to  at  all  interfere  with  the  heathens. 
Samuel  b.  Bisna  happened  to  be  in  the  City  of  Marguan  (the 
Israelites  of  which  were  suspected  of  drinking  wine  of  the 
heathens),  and  he  drank  neither  wine  nor  beer,  which  was 
brought  to  him.  It  is  correct  that  he  did  not  drink  wine,  because 
of  the  suspicion  that  it  was  sacrificed,  but  why  not  beer?  As 
a  safeguard  to  wine. 

Said  Rabh:  The  beer  in  question  is  permissible  to  everyone, 
but  Hyia,  my  son,  must  not  drink  of  it,  because  he  is  sick,  and 
it  may  harm  him.  Said  Samuel:  All  the  reptiles  have  poison, 
but  their  poison  does  not  kill,  that  of  a  snake  excepted. 

The  same  said  to  Hyia  b.  Rabh:  Come  and  I  will  tell  you 
the  good  things  which  were  said  by  your  father.  The  sick 
heathens  who  become  swollen,  and  whom  uncovered  water  does 
not  harm,  surely  ate  reptiles,  so  that  their  bodies  contain  poison, 
which  prevents  the  harming  efTects  of  the  snake  poison.  «  R. 
Joseph  said:  The  beer- vinegar  is  forbidden,  because  they  mix 
into  it  the  dregs  of  wine  which  was  sacrificed.  Said  R.  Ashi: 
If  it  was  brought  from  the  storehouse,  it  is  permissible,  for  if  it 
were  mixed  Vv'ith  dregs  it  would  be  spoiled.     (See  appendix.) 

"  The  sages  did  not  admit.''  There  is  a  contradiction  from 
the  following:  The  wine  which  was  placed  in  the  bags  of  goat- 
skins by  the  heathens  must  not  be  consumed,  but  one  may  de- 
rive benefit  from  it.  R.  Simeon  b.  Guda,  however,  testified 
before  the  son  of  Rabban  Gamaliel  that  his  father  drank  of  such, 
in  the  City  of  Akuh,  and  they  (the  sages)  admitted  it?  The  ex- 
pression not  admitted  in  the  Mishna  means  the  other  sages,  but 
his  son  has  admitted.  And  if  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  to 
one  Tana  by  the  name  of  Gudah,  he  has  not  admitted,  but 
to  the  Tana  Gudeah  he  has  admitted. 

"  Skins  in  which  there  are  holes.''  The  rabbis  taught:  What 
is  considered  a  holed  skin?  If  it  is  torn  opposite  the  heart,  and 
is  round,  and  if  there  is  a  "  Kartub  "  (a  small  liquid  measure 
equal  to  ^  of  a  lug)  it  is  prohibited,  but  not  if  such  was  not 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  6i 

found.     Said  R.  Huna:  Provided  it  was  not  salted,  but  if  salted 
it  may  be  supposed  that  the  salt  has  absorbed  the  blood. 

"  R.  Simon  b.  Gamaliel,''  etc.  Said  R.  Joseph  in  the  name 
of  R.  Jehudah,  quoting  Samuel:  The  Halakha  prevails  with 
him. 

' '  Meat  entering  for  the  idol, ' '  etc.  Who  is  the  Tana  that  holds 
thus?  Said  Hyia  b.  Abba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  It  is  not 
in  accordance  with  R.  Elazar,  who  said  elsewhere  that  in  general 
the  thought  of  a  heathen  is  directed  to  his  idol. 

"  Meat  which  comes  out,''  etc.  And  what  is  the  reason?  Be- 
cause if  it  was  already  with  the  idol,  it  is  impossible  that  there 
was  no  sacrifice.  And  this  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehuda  b. 
Bathyra  of  the  following  Boraitha;  Whence  do  we  know  that 
a  sacrifice  to  the  idol  defiles  in  a  tent?  From  [Psalms,  cvi.  28]: 
"  And  they  joined  themselves  unto  Ba'al-pe'or,  and  ate  the  sac- 
rifices of  the  dead,"  and  as  a  dead  defiles  in  a  tent,  so  does  the 
same  the  sacrifice  of  an  idol. 

"  With  pilgrims,"  etc.  Said  Samuel:  A  heathen  pilgrim  is 
prohibited  only  when  on  his  way  to  the  idol,  because  he  goes  to 
worship  the  idol,  but  when  here  turns  there  is  nothing  the  matter, 
as  no  consideration  should  be  paid  to  what  was  done.  The  re- 
verse is  the  case  with  an  Israelite.  When  he  goes  there,  one 
may  interfere  in  hope  to  induce  him  to  retract,  but  when  he 
returns  one  must  not,  because  as  he  is  enthusiastic  he  will  go 
again.  But  is  there  not  a  Boraitha  to  the  effect  that  with  an 
Israelite  pilgrim  one  must  not  interfere  either  when  he  goes  or 
returns?  Said  R.  Ashi:  That  Boraitha  speaks  of  an  apostate  Jew, 
of  whom  it  is  sure  that  he  will  not  retract. 

"  Coining  from,"  etc.  Said  Resh  Lakish:  Provided  they  are 
not  conjoined,  but  if  they  are,  it  is  supposed  that  they  will  re- 
turn there. 

"  The  bags  of  the  heathens,"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  New 
bags,  which  are  not  pitched  as  yet,  are  permissible,  but  those 
which  are  pitched  are  prohibited  (if  they  have  absorbed  the 
wine).  If,  however,  the  heathen  has  pitched  them  and  put  in 
wine  in  the  presence  of  an  Israelite,  the  wine  is  permissible. 

But  if  the  heathen  puts  the  wine  in,  what  is  the  Israelite's 
presence  good  for?  Explained  R.  Papa:  The  heathen  pitched 
it,  and  an  Israelite  put  in  the  wine  in  the  presence  of  another 
Israelite.  But  to  what  purpose  is  the  other  Israelite's  presence? 
Perhaps  the  Israelite,  while  busy  with  pouring  in  the  wine, 
would  not  notice  that  the  heathen  meanwhile  devotes  it.     R. 


62  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Zebid,  however,  said:  R.  Papa's  explanation  is  not  necessary, 
as  it  is  said  before,  the  heathen  that  pours  in  the  wine,  but  the 
wine  loses  its  identity  when  mixed  with  the  pitch,  just  as  water 
does  when  poured  into  clay.  Said  R.  Papa:  We  may  infer 
from  R.  Zebid's  statement  that  if  a  heathen  puts  wine  in  an 
Israelite's  salt,  it  is  permissible.  R.  Ashi,  however,  opposed, 
saying  that  there  is  no  comparison,  as  in  the  pitch  the  wine  is 
lost,  but  not  in  the  salt,  as  the  taste  of  it  remains.  There  was 
a  merchant.  Bar  Abi,  who  took  away  pitchers  of  R.  Itzchak  b. 
Joseph,  kept  wine  in  them,  and  thereafter  returned  them,  and 
he  asked  in  the  college  what  to  do  with  them?  Said  R.  Jere- 
miah to  him:  In  such  a  case  R.  Ami  has  decided  for  practice 
one  shall  fill  them  with  water  for  three  days  and  after  the  water 
is  poured  out  he  may  use  them.  Said  Rabha:  He  must  change 
the  water  every  day.  The  schoolmen  understand  that  this  was 
said  only  concerning  our  bags,  but  not  if  the  bags  were  the 
heathen's.  However,  when  Rabbin  came  from  Palestine  he 
said  that  there  is  no  difference  between  ours  and  theirs.  R. 
Aha  b.  Rabha  meant  to  say,  in  the  presence  of  R.  Ashi,  that 
this  is  only  concerning  bags  and  not  pitchers.  Said  R.  Ashi  to 
him:  There  is  no  difference  between  bags  and  pitchers.  R. 
Jehudah  the  second  questioned  R.  Ami:  How  is  it  if  he  has  re- 
turned the  pitchers  to  the  pottery,  and  they  were  burned  there. 
May  they  be  used  or  not?  And  he  answered:  Brine  extracts 
what  is  absorbed  by  them,  so  much  the  more  does  fire.  So,  also, 
was  it  taught  by  R.  Johanan,  according  to  others  by  R.  Assi,  in 
the  name  of  the  former:  Pitchers  of  the  heathens,  which  were 
returned  to  the  pottery,  as  soon  as  the  pitch  falls  off  from  them, 
are  permissible.  Said  R.  Ashi:  Don't  teach  until  it  falls  off, 
but  even  when  it  weakens  so  as  to  fall  off  they  are  allowed. 

If  this  was  done  by  burning  them  out  simply  with  pieces  of 
wood  R.  Aha  and  Rabbina  differ.  According  to  one  it  is  per- 
missible, and  according  to  the  other  it  is  not,  and  the  Halakha 
prevails  with  the  latter.  The  schoolman  propounded  a  ques- 
tion: How  is  it  to  keep  beer  in  the  same?  R.  Na'hman  and  R. 
Jehudah  prohibit  it,  and  Rabha  permits.  Rabbina  permitted 
Hyia  b.  Itzchak  to  put  beer  in  them.  He,  however,  put  wine 
in  them.  Nevertheless,  Rabinna  did  not  care  to  forbid  him, 
saying  that  this  occurred  only  unintentionally,  and  he  would  not 
do  it  again.  R.  Itzchak  b.  Bisna  had  vessels  made  of  clay  and 
ordure,  in  which  there  was  once  sacrificed  wine,  and  he  filled 
them  with  water,  put  them  in  the  sun,  and  they  burst.     Said  R. 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  63 

Abba  to  him:  You  have  lost  them  in  vain.  True,  the  rabbis 
said  to  fill  them  with  water,  but  did  they  say  to  put  them  in  the 
sun?  R.  Yusna  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Ami:  Vessels  of  natron, 
in  which  there  was  wine,  have  no  remedy.  What  is  meant  by 
natron  vessels?  Said  R.  Jose  b.  Abin:  Vessels  made  of  alum 
crystal.  Rupila  took  away  such  pitchers  from  Pumbedith,  kept 
wine  in  them,  then  returned  them ;  and  when  R.  Jehudah  was 
questioned  as  to  what  to  do  with  them,  he  said:  He  kept  wine 
in  them  only  temporarily,  therefore  he  may  rinse  them  with 
water  and  they  are  allowed.  Said  R.  Evira:  The  pitchers  of 
red  earth  which  do  not  absorb  much,  he  may  rinse  with  water, 
and  they  are  allowed.  Said  R.  Papa:  The  same  is  the  case  with 
the  clay  pitchers  of  Michsi.  Clay  buchals  R.  Asi  prohibits  and 
R.  Ashi  permits.  In  case  the  heathen  drank  from  them  the  first 
and  second  time,  all  agree  that  they  are  forbidden ;  they  differ, 
however,  with  regard  to  the  third  time  {i.e.,  when  the  first  two 
times  an  Israelite  drank  from  them ;  and  the  Halakha  prevails, 
that  if  the  heathen  drank  the  first  and  second  times,  they  are 
prohibited,  but  if  the  third,  they  are  not).  Said  R.  Zebid: 
Vessels  enamelled  with  white  and  black  are  permissible,  but  if 
with  green,  they  are  not,  because  they  contain  alum  crystal. 
However,  if  there  were  splits  in  them  they  all  are  forbidden. 

Maremar  lectured:  Enamelled  vessels,  no  matter  of  what 
color,  are  permissible.  But  why  is  wine  different  from  leaven 
on  Passover,  concerning  which  a  similar  question  was  pro- 
pounded to  Maremar,  and  he  prohibited  them  all?  Because 
leaven  is  usually  used  hot,  while  wine  is  usually  used  cold.  R. 
Aqiba  happened  to  be  in  Ginzek,  and  he  was  questioned  the  fol- 
lowing: Fasting  a  couple  of  hours  only,  is  it  considered  or  not? 
And  he  did  not  know  the  answer.  Pitchers  of  heathens  ar 
allowed  or  prohibited?  Finally,  in  what  garments  did  Mosei 
worship  the  seven  days  before  he  consecrated  Aaron  to  the  high 
priesthood?  And  he,'inot  knowing  the  answers,  came  with  thes< 
questions  to  college.  He  was  told:  A  fasting  of  hours  is  con- 
sidered, and  if  one  finished  his  fasting  at  sunset,  he  may  recite 
the  prayer  of  fasting.  The  pitchers  of  heathens,  after  they  were 
empty  for  twelve  months,  are  permissible.  Moses  has  wor- 
shipped the  seven  days  in  a  white  gown.  R.  Kahanah  taught: 
In  a  white  shirt  which  had  no  seam. 

"  The  pressed  grapes,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  The  pressed 
grapes  of  which  wine  was  made,  with  their  kernel,  are  forbidden 
when  they  are  still  wet,  but  not  when  they  are  dry.     And  which 


54  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

are  to  be  considered  wet?  Before  twelve  months  has  elapsed, 
and  thereafter  they  are  considered  dry.  So  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  of  Samuel.  It  was  taught:  Rabba  b.  b.  Hanna  in  the 
name  of  R.  Johanan  said:  The  prohibition  of  them  extends  even 
to  the  deriving  of  any  benefit  from  them,  and  when  they  are 
allowed,  they  may  even  be  consumed.  R.  Zebid  said:  The 
dregs  of  wine  of  the  heathens,  after  twelve  months,  are  allowed. 
Their  enamelled  pitchers,  after  twelve  months  of  non-usage  have 
elapsed,  are  allowed  according  to  R.  Habiba  b.  Rabha.  R. 
Habiba  said:  And  the  same  is  the  case  with  their  thick  leather 
bags.  R.  Aha  b.  R.  Aika  said:  The  same  is  also  the  case  with 
their  pomace  of  grapes.  And  R.  Aha  b.  Rabha  said:  The  same 
is  also  the  case  with  their  enamelled  white  and  black  pitchers. 

"  Fish-oil,'"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  Fish-oil  made  by  a 
heathen  specialist  is  permissible.  R.  Jehudah  b.  Gamaliel,  in 
the  name  of  R.  Hanina  his  brother,  said:  The  same  is  the  case 
with  Hillek  (small  fish,  which  have  no  fins  or  scales)  if  they  come 
from  a  heathen  specialist.  R.  Abimi  b.  R.  Abuhu  taught:  Fish- 
oil  from  a  specialist  is  allowed.  He  taught  it,  and  he  himself 
explained  it  thus:  The  first  and  the  second  time  when  there  is 
considerable  fat  in  it  he  has  to  use  no  wine,  so  it  is  allowed,  but 
not  in  the  third  time,  when  wine  must  be  used.  There  was 
a  boat  with  fish-oil,  which  came  to  the  port  of  Akhu,  and  R. 
Aba  of  the  same  city  appointed  a  watchman  to  guard  it.  Said 
Rabha  to  him:  Who,  then,  watched  it  until  now?  And  he  re- 
joined: Until  now?  for  what  purpose  was  it  necessary  to  watch? 
surely  not  for  fear  perhaps  they  would  put  wine  in  it,  as  in  their 
place  wine  costs  four-fold  as  does  fish-oil,  while  here  it  is  the 
reverse.  Said  R.  Jeremiah  to  R.  Zera:  But  perhaps  while  this 
boat  passed  the  City  of  Zur,  where  wine  is  cheap,  they  have 
poured  wine  in  it?  And  he  answered:  It  would  have  been  a 
difificulty  for  this  boat  to  reach  Zur,  as  there  are  (along  the  coast 
from  Zur  to  Akhu)  bays  formed  by  protruding  rocks  and  shal- 
low waters  caused  by  melting  snows. 

"  Cheese  of  Atiuyiki."  Said  Resh  Lakish:  Why  did  the 
sages  forbid  the  cheese  of  Anuyiki?  Because  most  of  their 
calves  are  slaughtered  for  the  sake  of  their  idols.  (Says  the 
Gemara):  Why  the  most,  when  even  if  the  minority  were  slaugh- 
tered for  that  purpose,  the  same  would  be  the  case,  as  R.  Mair 
considers  the  minority  also?  The  expression  ''the  most"  was 
necessary  in  order  to  indicate  that  only  a  minority  are  slaugh- 
tered not  for  this  purpose,  but  if  it  were  said  "  the  minority  " 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  65 

then  it  would  be  understood  that  the  majority  are  slaughtered 
not  for  this  purpose,  and  as  the  cattle  are  also  slaughtered  not 
for  this  purpose,  the  minority  then  would  be  a  minority  of  a 
minority,  to  which  even  R.  Mair  does  not  pay  any  attention. 
Said  R.  Simeon  b.  Elyakim  to  Resh  Lakish:  Your  reason  that 
the  calves  are  slaughtered  for  the  sake  of  the  idol  contradicts 
your  own  statement  made  elsewhere — viz. :  that  the  slaughtering 
for  the  sake  of  the  idol  is  not  to  be  taken  into  consideration  (in 
opposition  to  R.  Johanan,  who  says  that  it  is),  and  he  answered: 
May  you  in  the  future  be  more  successful  in  distinguishing  mat- 
ters. I  speak  of  him  who  expressly  says:  I  am  worshipping  the 
idol  with  this  slaughtering. 

"  Calls  his  attention  to  another  thing.''  [Solomon's  Song, 
I,  2.]  What  does  this  passage  mean?  When  R.  Dimi  came  he 
said  thus:  The  assembly  of  Israel  said  before  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He:  Lord  of  the  Universe,  sweet  are  to  me  the  words 
of  thy  friends  (the  sages  who  are  explaining  the  law)  more  than 
the  essence  of  the  Torah.  But  what  was  the  reason  that  he 
called  his  attention  to  this  passage?  Said  R.  Simeon  b.  Pazi, 
according  to  others,  b.  Ami:  He  called  his  attention  to  the  be- 
ginning of  this  chapter,  "  He  may  kiss  me,"  etc.,  and  the  mean- 
ing was  this:  Ishmael,  my  brother,  compress  your  lips,  one 
upon  the  other,  and  hasten  not  to  propound  questions.  But 
why?  Said  Ulah,  according  to  others,  R.  Samuel  b.  Aba :  This 
was  a  new  decree,  to  which  the  reason  could  not  be  given  at 
that  time.  And  what  is  the  reason?  Said  R.  Simeon  b.  Pazi 
in  the  name  of  R.  Joshua  b.  Levi :  It  is  that  perhaps  it  was  un- 
covered and  was  poisoned  by  a  snake.  If  so,  why  did  he  not 
tell  him  so?  This  is  as  Ula  said  elsewhere.  When  a  new  de- 
cree was  promulgated  in  the  west,  they  did  not  give  the  reason 
until  twelve  months  had  elapsed,  for  fear  there  may  be  one  who 
would  not  care  for  such  a  reason,  and  would  not  accept  the  de- 
cree. R.  Jeremiah  ridiculed  this  statement,  since,  according  to 
it,  old  cheese  should  be  allowed,  as  R.  Hanina  said :  A  dry  or 
an  old  one  is  permissible,  because  poison  would  not  have 
allowed  it  to  become  old  or  dry.  Said  R.  Hanina:  The  reason 
was  that  there  is  no  cheese  in  which  some  skimmed  milk  does 
not  remain,  and  this  is  forbidden,  because  the  heathen  mixes  all 
milk  with  milk  of  such  cattle  that  is  forbidden  to  eat.  Samuel, 
however,  said:  Because  they  curdle  the  milk  with  the  skin  of 
the  rennet  of  a  carcass.  But  how  is  it  if  with  the  rennet  itself, 
would  it  be  allowed?     Did  indeed  Samuel  say  so?     Is  there  not 


66  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

a  Mishna:  The  rennet  belonging  to  a  Gentile  as  well  as  that  of 
a  carcass,  is  forbidden,  and  the  question:  What  does  a  Gentile's 
rennet  mean.  Samuel  explained:  The  rennet  of  those  cattle 
which  the  heathen  has  slaughtered  is  considered  as  one  of  a  car- 
cass. Hence,  the  rennet  itself  is  also  prohibited?  This  pre- 
sents no  diflficulty,  as  Samuel's  explanation  had  been  made 
before  R.  Jehoshua  retracted  his  statement,  that  the  rennet 
itself  is  to  be  considered.  And  his  statement  cited  above  was 
after  the  retraction  of  R.  Jehoshua  was  known,  and  that  Mish- 
na in  tract  Chulin  remained  uncorrected. 

R.  Malchia  in  the  name  of  R.  Aba  b.  Ahaba  said :  The  rea- 
son is  that  they  besmear  the  top  of  the  cheese  with  the  fat  of 
swine.  R.  Hisda  said:  Because  they  curdle  it  with  vinegar. 
And  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  said:  Because  they  curdle  it  with 
the  juice  of  the  trees  of  "  Or/ak."  But,  according  to  R.  Hisda 
and  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak,  it  should  be  forbidden  to  derive 
any  benefit  from  i/iem  ?     This  difficulty  remains  unsolved. 

R.  Na'hman  b.  R.  Hisda  lectured :  It  reads  [Songs  of  Solo- 
mon, 1-3]:  "To  the  smell  are  thy  fragrant  oils  pleasant,"  a 
scholar  is  equalled  to  a  glass  of  perfume,  which,  if  uncovered, 
gives  forth  a  good  odor,  while  it  does  not  if  covered.  And  not 
only  this,  but  matters  the  reasons  of  which  were  sealed  from 
him,  finally  become  apparent  [ibid.,  ibid.]:  "The  maidens 
(^'  alomoth")\ovQ  thee."  Do  not  read  "  alomoth  "  (maidens), 
but  "  alumuth  "  (hidden  things).  Furthermore,  the  angel  of 
death  becomes  his  lover,  as  the  word  alomoth  is  to  be  divided 
into  two  words,  <2/-moveth,  which  means  death.  And  further- 
more, he  inherits  two  worlds :  this  world,  and  the  world  to 
come,  as  the  same  word  may  be  read  "  olumuth,"  which  means 
"worlds:' 

MISHNA  V. :  The  following  things  of  the  heathens  are  pro- 
hibited, but  not  for  deriving  benefit  from  them:  Milk  which 
the  heathen  himself  milked  not  in  the  presence  of  an  Israelite, 
their  bread  and  oil.  Rabbi  in  his  court,  however,  permitted  the 
consumption  of  their  oil.  Cooked  and  soaked  herbs,  in  which 
they  usually  pour  wine,  and  small  salted  fish  (which  is  called 
trith),  the  brine  of  fish  in  which  there  is  no  fish,  and  'hillek,  the 
brine  of  'hilteth,  and  sal-condire — all  these  are  forbidden  to  eat, 
but  one  may  derive  benefit  from  them. 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  reason  for  the  prohibition  of  milk? 
If,  e.g.,  that  the  heathen  might  substitute  for  the  milk  of  a  cow 
that  of  an  ass,  there  is  no  fear,  for  from  a  cow  it  is  white,  while 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  67 

from  an  ass  it  is  green ;  and  if  because  he  may  mix  it  with  above, 
let  him  curdle  it;  and,  as  the  Master  said,  the  milk  of  an  ass 
cannot  be  curdled?  Yea;  this  is  when  he  needs  it  for  cheese, 
but  how  shall  he  test  it  when  he  needs  it  as  it  is?  Even  then 
he  can  test  it  by  taking  part  thereof  for  curdling? 

This  cannot  prove,  as  there  is  some  bad  milk  of  a  cow,  which 
Cannot  be  curdled.  And  if  you  wish,  it  can  be  said  that  even 
for  cheese  curdling  is  no  test  that  the  milk  was  not  contamin- 
ated, as  the  unclean  milk  remains  in  the  holes  of  the  cheese  (as 
said  above). 

"  And  bread."  Said  R.  Kahanah  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan: 
Bread  was  not  permitted  by  Rabbi  and  his  court,  as  it  was  with 
oil.  But  is  there  one  who  says  that  it  was?  Yea;  as  R.  Dimi, 
when  back  from  Palestine,  related  :  It  once  happened  that  Rabbi 
went  to  a  field,  and  a  heathen  brought  him  fine  bread,  the  size 
of  z.''  saah,''  and  Rabbi  exclaimed:  How  nice  this  bread  is! 
Why  should  the  sages  forbid  it?  And  by  this  exclamation  the 
people  thought  that  Rabbi  had  permitted  it.  In  reality,  how- 
ever, he  did  not.  R.  Joseph,  according  to  others,  R.  Samuel 
b.  Jehudah,  said :  It  was  not  as  R.  Dimi  related,  but  it  once 
happened  that  Rabbi  went  to  a  certain  place,  and  seeing  that 
there  was  a  difficulty  to  obtain  Jewish  bread  for  the  disciples, 
he  exclaimed,  "  Is  there  no  baker  here!  "  People  thought  that 
he  meant  a  heathen  baker,  but  he  probably  meant  a  Jewish  one. 
Said  R.  'Helbu:  Even  if  he  meant  a  heathen  baker,  it  is  per- 
mitted only  when  there  is  no  Jewish  baker,  otherwise  it  is  not. 
And  R.  Johanan  said:  Even  if  he  meant  a  heathen  baker,  it  is 
permissible  only  in  the  field,  but  not  in  the  city,  by  reason  of  the 
fear  of  intermarriage.  Aiban  used  to  bite  and  consume  heathen 
bread  at  the  boundaries  of  the  field,  and  Rabha  or  R.  Na'hman 
b.  Itz'hak  told  his  disciples  not  to  have  any  conversation  with 
him,  because  he  eats  heathen  bread. 

"  And  their  oil.''  Concerning  oil,  Rabh  said :  Daniel  has  de- 
creed the  prohibition,  and  Samuel  said:  Because  they  are  boiled 
in  forbidden  vessels.  Said  Samuel  to  Rabh:  According  to  my 
theory,  it  is  correct  that  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Samuel  b.  Martha  related 
about  R.  Simlayi,  who  preached  in  the  City  of  Nezibin,  that 
concerning  oil  R.  Jehudah  (Rabbi  and  his  court  voted  and  per- 
mitted it).  Their  reason  may  have  been  that  the  absorbed  fat 
in  the  vessels  which  spoils  the  oil  does  not  affect  its  validity, 
and  therefore  they  permitted.  But  according  to  your  theory 
that  Daniel  had  so  decreed,  is  it  possible  that  R.  Jehudah   \he 


68  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

prince,  should  abolish  the  decree  of  Daniel?  Is  there  not  a 
Mishna:  A  court  must  not  abolish  the  decree  of  another,  unless 
it  is  greater  in  wisdom  and  in  number?  And  he  answered:  You 
speak  of  Simlayi  the  Ludian,  such  people  do  not  care  to  observe 
the  decrees  of  the  rabbis.  Said  Samuel:  Then  allow  me  to  send 
this  message  to  him  (Simlayi),  and  Rabh  became  confused. 
Thereupon  he  said:  If  they  have  not  given  proper  attention  to 
that  which  is  written  concerning  Daniel  in  the  Scripture,  should 
we  do  the  same?  Does  it  not  read  [Daniel,  i.  8]:  "  Nor  the 
wine  of  his  banquets."*  Hence  we  see  that  the  Scripture 
speaks  of  two  banquets,  one  of  wine  and  one  of  oil.  However, 
he  differs  with  Samuel  in  the  explanation  of"  resolved  in  his 
heart,"  as  according  to  him  (Rabh)  "  he  resolved  in  his  heart, 
and  decreed  same  for  all  Israel."  Samuel,  however,  explains  it: 
He  so  resolved  for  himself,  but  not  for  Israel.  But  how  can  we 
say  that  Daniel  decreed  so,  after  Bali-Abimi  of  Nirtah  said  in 
the  name  of  Rabh  :  The  decrees,  concerning  their  bread,  wine,  oil, 
and  their  daughters  were  included  in  the  eighteen  decrees  (which 
are  mentioned  in  Tract  Sabbath).  Now,  should  you  say  that 
Daniel's  decree  was  not  accepted  until  after  the  disciples  of 
Hillel  and  Shamai  came,  decreed  so,  and  it  was  then  accepted? 
Then,  how  is  to  be  understood  the  testimony  that  Daniel  has 
thus  decreed?  Rabh  has  testified  that  Daniel's  decree  was  only 
for  the  cities  where  other  oils  are  to  be  found,  but  not  for  the 
field.  And  the  rabbis  mentioned  above  decreed  that  the  same 
should  be  even  in  the  field.  But  after  all,  how  could  Rabbi 
abolish  their  decree  despite  the  Mishna  cited  above:  That  one 
court  must  not  abolish  the  decree  of  another,  etc.?  And,  sec- 
ondly, did  not  Rabba  b.  b.  Hanna  say  in  the  name  of  R.  Jo- 
hanan,  that  even  in  cases  where  one  court  may  change  the 
decree  of  another,  it  cannot  do  so  with  regard  to  the  above  eigh- 
teen decrees,  as  concerning  them,  even  if  Elijah  with  his  court 
should  come  and  abolish  them,  he  must  not  be  heeded?  Said 
R.  Mesharshia :  The  reason  is  that  the  decrees  in  question  were 
spread  among  the  majority  of  Israel;  as  to  oil,  however,  its 
decree  was  not  accepted  by  the  majority  of  Israel.  As  so  said 
Samuel  b.  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  Our  masters  inves- 
tigated concerning  oil,  and  found  that  the  prohibition  was  not 
accepted  by  the  majority,  therefore,  adhere  to  the  rule  declared 

*  Leeser  translates  "  which  he  drank  "  ;  the  Talmud,  however,  takes  it  literally, 
as  the  term  "  mishte  "  in  Hebrew  means  banquet. 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  69 

by  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  and  R.  Eliezer  b.  Zadok,  that  a  court 
must  not  enact  anything  which  the  majority  of  the  congregation 
could  not  possibly  follow.* 

R.  Jehudah  the  second  leaned  upon  the  shoulder  of  R.  Sim- 
layi  when  walking  in  the  street,  and  said:  Simlayi,  you  were 
not  in  college  yesterday,  at  the  time  we  permitted  oil  of  the 
heathens.  And  he  answered:  I  hope  that  you  will  soon  permit 
their  bread  also.  Rejoined  R.  Jehudah :  Then  the  people  would 
name  us  the  all-permitting  court,  as  so  they  named  R.  Josh 
(Tract  Idioth  Mishna).  Then  to  Simlayi's  remark:  R.  Josh  has 
permitted  three  things,  and  you,  master,  have  only  permitted 
one,  and  should  you  permit  one  more,  it  will  be  only  two.  Je- 
hudah answered :  I  have  already  permitted  another  thing  con- 
cerning the  validity  a  divorce  attains  after  twelve  months  had 
elapsed  before  the  husband  returns;  and  it  happened  that  before 
the  elapse  of  such  period  the  man  died,  and  I  have  permitted 
the  woman  to  remarry,  f 

"  Cooked,'"  etc.  Whence  is  this  deduced?  Said  R.  Hyia  b. 
Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  from  [Deut.  ii.  28]:  "  Food 
shalt  thou  sell  me  for  money,  that  I  may  eat;  and  water  for 
money  shalt  thou  give  me,  that  I  may  drink,"  which  means, 
like  water,  which  does  not,  since  its  creation,  change  by  fire, 
eatables  are  not  changed  since  their  creation,  by  fire.  (But  that 
which  was  changed  is  not  permissible.)  But  as  there  is  not 
mentioned  ''fire"  in  the  Scripture,  this  is  but  a  decree  of  the 
rabbis,  and  the  verse  is  brought  only  as  a  hint  to  this.  R.  Sam- 
uel b.  Itz'hak  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  To  everything  which 
can  be  consumed  raw,  the  prohibition  of  cooked  by  a  heathen 
does  not  apply.  So  it  was  taught  in  the  college  of  Sura.  In 
the  college  of  Pumbeditha,  however,  it  was  taught  as  follows:  R. 
Samuel  b.  R.  Itz'hak  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  To  everything 
which  is  not  served  on  the  table  of  noblemen  to  relish  the  bread, 
the  prohibition  of  "  cooked  by  a  heathen  "  does  not  apply.  And 
what  is  the  difference  between  the  two  versions?  Small  fish, 
mushroom  and  disa  (a  thickly  cooked  barley  or  meal).  All  these 
three  cannot  be  consumed  raw,  but  they  are  not  served  on  the 
tables  of  noblemen.     Hence,  according  to  the  first  version,  if 

*  The  text  here  treats  of  the  eighteen  decrees  mentioned  in  [Sabbath  page  24] 
which  we  have  omitted.  We  also  call  the  attention  of  the  reader  to  the  appendix  at 
the  end  of  same  tract. 

f  The  text  discusses  here  the  three  things  which  Josh  b.  Joezer  testified  in  the 
cited  Mishna,  Idioth,  which  will  be  found  there  in  the  proper  place. 


70  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

prepared  by  a  heathen,  must  not  be  consumed,  and  according 
to  the  second,  it  is  permissible. 

R.  Assi  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  To  small  salt  fish  cooking 
of  a  heathen  does  not  apply.  Said  R.  Joseph:  If  the  heathen 
roasted  it,  an  Israelite  may  rely  upon  it  for  aneb  tabshilin.* 
But  if  he  has  prepared  from  this  a  mush  of  harsana  (a  dish  of 
small  fish  with  flour)  it  is  forbidden.  Is  this  not  self-evident? 
Lest  one  say  that  the  fish  is  the  main  thing  of  this  dish,  it  comes 
to  teach  us  that  the  flour  is  the  main  thing.  R.  Johanan  said , 
If  a  heathen  singed  the  head  of  an  animal,  it  is  permissible  to 
partake  of  it  even  from  the  ear  (although  the  ear  is  nearly 
cooked  by  the  singeing).  Said  Rabbina :  From  this  we  may  infer 
that  if  he  threw  a  tent-pin  in  the  stove  (to  dry  it),  and  an  Israel- 
ite has  deposited  upon  it  a  pumpkin,  it  may  be  used.  Is  this 
not  self-evident?  Lest  one  say  that  the  heathen  intended  to 
cook  the  tent-pin  (hence  the  pumpkin  would  be  cooked  by  him), 
he  came  to  teach  us  that  his  intention  was  only  to  dry  and  not 
to  cook  it.  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  If  an 
Israelite  placed  meat  upon  live  coals  and  a  heathen  came  and 
turned  it,  it  is  permissible.  But  let  us  examine  the  case.  If 
without  turning,  it  would  not  be  cooked,  then  it  was  cooked  by 
the  heathen,  and  must  not  be  permissible;  on  the  other  hand, 
if  it  would  be  cooked  without  turning,  then  its  permission  is 
self-evident.  It  speaks  of  the  fact  that  if  he  did  not  turn  it,  it 
would  cook  in  two  hours,  but  by  turning,  it  was  cooked  in  one 
hour;  and  lest  one  say  that  the  hastening  of  the  cooking  be 
taken  into  consideration,  he  teaches  us  that  it  is  not  so. 

But  did  not  R.  Assi  say  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  that, 
when  the  food  has  been  cooked  to  the  extent  that  Ben  Drusai  f 
habitually  eats  it,  the  heathen  may  then  complete  its  cooking, 
but  not  otherwise,  and  should  not  the  above-mentioned  fried 
meat  be  accordingly  prohibited?  This  quotation  intends  to  say 
as  follows:  If  the  meat  was  put  into  the  pot  by  the  Israelite 
and  then  placed  upon  the  fire  by  a  heathen,  it  is  permissible. 
There  is  a  Boraitha  to  this  effect :  The  Israelite  may  put  the 
meat  upon  the  coals  and  let  the  heathen  do  the  turning  till  he 
returns  from  the  synagogue  or  college.  Similarly,  a  Jewish 
woman  may  place  the  pot  upon  the  fire  and  then  leave  the 
heathen  woman  do  the  skimming  till  she  returns  from  the  syna- 


*  See  Erubin. 

f  Ben-Drusai,  a  certain  robber  who  used  to  eat  meat  only  one-third  cooked. 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  71 

gogue  or  bath-house.  In  these  cases  there  is  nothing  to  fear. 
The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question  whether  that  meat  is 
permissible  which  was  put  upon  the  coals  by  a  heathen  and 
turned  about  by  an  Israelite?  Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak: 
The  answer  thereto  can  be  inferred  a  fortiori — viz. :  if  the  com- 
pletion of  the  cooking  by  the  heathen's  hand  is  allowed,  so 
much  the  more  is  it  so,  if  by  the  hand  of  Israelite.  It  wa3 
taught  so,  too:  Rabba  b.  'Hana,  according  to  others,  R.  A'ha 
b.  b.  'Hana,  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  It  is  only  then  pro- 
hibited when  the  heathen  prepares  the  food  all  alone,  without 
the  aid  of  the  Israelite.  As  to  bread,  Rabbina  said:  The 
Halakha  is  thus:  When  the  Israelite  heats  the  oven  and  the 
heathen  places  the  bread  therein,  or  vice  versa,  or,  finally,  the 
heathen  does  both  the  things  and  the  Israelite  was  but  fixing 
a  little  the  fire  during  the  heating,  the  bread  is  allowed.  How- 
ever, fish  salted  by  heathens  are  allowed  by  'Hiskia,  but  pro- 
hibited by  R.  Johanan ;  and  an  ^g^  roasted  by  a  heathen  Bar 
Kapara  allows,  but  not  R.  Johanan.  But  when  R.  Dimi  came 
from  Palestine,  he  said  that  in  both  fish  and  egg  'Hiskia  and 
Bar  Kapara  allow,  and  R.  Johanan  does  not.  R.  Hyye  Parvah 
called  once  on  the  Exilearch,  where  he  was  asked  whether  it  is 
allowed  to  eat  an  egg  roasted  by  a  heathen,  and  he  replied  that 
'Hiskia  and  Bar  Kapara  allow  it  and  R.  Johanan  prohibits  it; 
the  rule  "  The  majority  rules  "  is  to  be  followed.  Thereupon 
exhorted  R.  Zebid:  Do  not  listen  to  R.  Hyye,  for  Ahayi  says 
that  in  this  case  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Johanan. 
The  Exilearch's  servants  became  therefore  so  enraged  that  they 
poisoned  R.  Zebid  with  a  drink  of  vinegar,  from  which  he  died. 
The  rabbis  taught:  Kaprises,  Kaplututh,  Hamtlia,  warm 
water  and  roasted  ears  of  corn  coming  from  the  heathens  are 
allowed ;  roasted  eggs  are  prohibited.  Oil  was  allowed  by  R. 
Jehudah,  the  prince,  and  his  court  by  vote.  There  is  a  Boraitha: 
Hamtlia  is  called  also  Peshlia  and  Shietta.  But  what,  indeed, 
is  it?  Rabha  b.  b.  'Hana  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  It 
is  now  forty  years  since  it  was  imported  from  Egypt ;  he  him- 
self said,  it  is  already  sixty  years.  In  reahty,  both  concur,  for 
R.  Johanan  made  his  statement  twenty  years  ago.  The  prep- 
aration thereof  is  as  follows:  Take  parsley-seed,  glue-seed,  juice 
of  fenugreek ;  keep  them  all  in  lukewarm  water  until  the  seed 
coats  burst;  then  fill  with  water  new  earthern  pots,  and,  on 
putting  therein  some  red  earth,  plant  in  it  the  seeds ;  now  go  to 
bathe,  and  no  sooner  do  you  come  back  than  the  planted  seeds 


72  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

will  have  borne  their  fruit,  which  is  highly  refreshing,  so  that 
on  eating  thereof  you  are  cooled  up  from  top  to  toe.  Said  R. 
Ashi:  I  was  told  by  R.  'Hanina  that  all  this  is  but  a  mere  fable. 
The  rabbis  taught:  If  dates  of  which  beer  was  already  once 
brewed  be  warmed  anew  in  other  vessels,  the  question  arises  as 
to  whether  these  vessels  are  big  or  small:  if  big,  the  dates  in 
question  are  prohibited ;  if  small,  they  are  allowed,  for  in  small 
vessels  the  heathen  surely  cooks  nothing  unclean.  What  deter- 
mines the  size  of  vessel?  R.  Janai  said:  A  vessel  is  said  to  be 
small  when  through  its  mouth  the  swallow  is  not  able  to  pass. 
But  could  not  the  bird  be  cut  into  pieces  and  then  made  to  pass 
through  the  opening  of  the  vessel?  Well,  the  foregoing  deter- 
mination is  to  be  understood  as  follows:  The  opening  of  the  ves- 
sel must  be  so  small  that  the  head  of  the  said  bird  could  not  enter. 
But  is  there  not  a  Boraitha:  Dates  are  allowed  regardless  of  the 
size  of  the  vessel  they  are  in?  Yea;  nevertheless  there  is  no 
implicit  contradiction  here,  for  he  who  prohibits  the  big  vessels 
is  of  the  opinion  that  if  the  taste  left  by  the  old  vessel  were  even 
injurious  to  the  food,  it  is  nevertheless  prohibited;  while  the 
others  who  allowed  it  maintain  that  if  the  flavor  left  by  the  old 
vessels  be  favorable  to  the  food,  it  is  prohibited,  but  if  unfavorable, 
it  is  allowed;  therefore  they  have  also  allowed  in  this  case  the 
big  vessels  of  the  heathens.  R.  Sheshith  said:  A  heathen's 
cooked  oil  is  prohibited.  Wondered  R.  Saphra:  Why,  there  is 
nothing  to  fear  in  this  case,  for  were  the  heathen  to  put  into  the 
said  oil  fat  he  would  thereby  impart  to  it  an  insipid  odor;  nor 
can  the  prohibition  be  based  upon  the  mere  fact  that  it  was 
cooked  by  a  heathen,  as  we  have  learned  above:  All  that  may 
be  eaten  in  a  raw  state,  may  also  be  eaten  when  cooked  by  a 
heathen,  and  oil  is  eatable  uncooked ;  as  for  the  absorption  by 
the  vessel,  it  makes  the  taste  of  the  oil  bad,  and  hence  it  can- 
not be  prohibited  therefor.  R.  Assi  was  asked  whether  dates 
cooked  by  a  heathen  are  permissible.  Sweet  dates,  that  are 
eatable  when  raw,  are  certainly  allowed,  but  not  bitter  ones, 
which  are  not  eatable  when  raw.  The  chief  point  here  is:  What 
about  dates  that  are  neither  sweet  nor  bitter  (and  are,  in  case  of 
necessity,  eatable  when  raw)?  And  he  answered:  A  distin- 
guished man,  Levi,  has  already  prohibited  them.  Shthithah 
(a  dish  prepared  from  young  ears  of  corn)  of  a  heathen,  Rabh 
allows,  the  father  of  Samuel  and  Levi  prohibits.  (Says  the  Ge- 
mara):  If  prepared  of  wheat  or  barley  flour,  all  agree  that  it  is  al- 
lowed.   A  food  of  peas  and  vinegar  is  declared  prohibited  also  by 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  73 

Rabh.  Their  point  of  difference  concerns  solely  a  food  of  flour 
and  water,  which  the  father  of  Samuel  and  Levi  prohibits,  fearing 
that,  if  this  were  allowed,  people  would  later  eat  also  foods  pre- 
pared with  vinegar ;  Rabh,  on  the  other  hand,  does  not  entertain 
this  fear.  Others  word  this  discussion  as  follows:  Pea  flour  pre- 
pared by  the  heathen  with  water  is  prohibited  by  Rabh,  who 
fears  lest  food  with  vinegar  be  eaten;  only  foods  prepared  of 
wheat  or  barley  flour  are  permissible,  as  for  their  preparation  no 
vinegar  is  required.  The  other  party,  however,  prohibits  also 
these  foods,  fearing  lest  one  might  then  allow  oneself  also  peas 
prepared  with  vinegar. 

Rabh  said:  Barsillai  sent  to  David  two  kinds  of  this  Shthit- 
hah,  as  it  reads  [II  Sam.  xvii.  28]:  "  Bedstead,  pans,  earthen 
pots,  wheat,  barley,  flour,  ears  of  corn,  beans,  lentils,  oatmeal." 
That  nowadays  we  buy  of  the  heathens  in  the  markets  of  Nahar- 
dea  these  articles  in  the  basketfuls,  is  a  sign  that  Samuel  and 
Levi's  prohibition  is  disregarded. 

"  And  pressed  preserves  into  which  they  habitually  put  wine." 
Its  benefit  is,  according  to  R.  Hiskia,  only  then  allowed  when 
it  is  not  known  that  there  is  wine  in  it.  But  if  it  is  definitely 
known  that  there  is  wine  in  it,  it  is  prohibited.  Why  then  do 
the  rabbis  allow  the  use  of  muries  which,  we  know,  all  prepare 
with  wine?  Because  here  wine  is  used  merely  to  destroy  the 
fishlime  of  the  muries,  while  in  the  above  it  is  used  to  render 
the  preserves  more  palatable.  However,  R.  Johanan  said  that 
even  when  it  is  known  that  there  is  wine  in  the  preserves  their 
benefit  is  none  the  less  permitted.  What  difference  is  there 
between  muries  and  preserves,  that  R.  Mair  prohibits  the  use 
of  the  former,  but  allows  that  of  the  latter?  In  case  of  the 
muries  which  is  taken  with  bread,  one  eats  the  wine  contained 
therein,  while  in  the  case  of  preserves  you  consume  only  the 
preserved  fruits,  the  wine  remaining  in  the  vessel. 

* '  Pressed  fish  cut  in  small  pieces  and  Hilac  are  forbidden. 
What  is  Hilac?  R.  Na'hman  Hanan  b.  Aba  said  in  the  name  of 
Rabh:  Hilac  is  Sulthenuth.  This  fish,  though  it  has  the  marks 
of  the  clean  fish,  is  prohibited,  because  it  so  closely  resembles 
the  other  unclean  fish  with  which  it  is  drawn  out  that  it  becomes 
impossible  to  distinguish  it. 

The  rabbis  taught:  Those  fishes  which,  when  young,  do  not 
exhibit  their  signs  of  clean  fish,  but  grow  them  later,  as  is  the 
case  with  the  Sulthenuth  and  the  Epitz,  are  allowed  to  eat. 
Such  fishes  that  show  the  signs  of  the  clean  order  when  fished 


74  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

out,  but  lose  them  later,  such  as  the  Akunas  and  Apunas,  Cho- 
tospeteis,  Achspeteis  and  Utanas,  are  allowed.  R.  Abuhu 
heralded  at  Csesaria  that  it  is  permitted  to  buy  of  anybody  the 
fish  oil  and  rye,  for  it  is  imported  only  from  Pelusium  and 
Aspamia  (Spain),  where  there  are  no  fishes  of  the  unclean  order. 
Abayi  likewise  allows  to  buy  of  heathens  the  fish  Zachanthra 
from  the  river  Dahab.  Why  is  this  permitted?  Presumably 
because  the  bed  of  the  river  is  of  such  a  composition  that  fish 
of  the  unclean  order  can  not  live  there.  Said  Rabbina:  Now 
that  the  two  rivers  Gusa  and  Ganda  have  been  united  with  the 
Dahab  river  the  Zachanthra  is  again  prohibited  (as  the  former 
two  shelter  unclean  fish).  Abayi  said:  The  sea-donkey  is 
allowed,  but  not  the  sea-ox;  and  you  remember  this  by  the  fol- 
lowing mark:  the  unclean  (on  earth?)  is  clean,  while  the  clean 
is  unclean.  R.  Ashi  said:  Separnuna  is  allowed,  Kadeshnuna 
is  not ;  according  to  others  he  said  that  Kaharnuna  is  forbidden. 
R.  Aqiba,  when  in  Ginsek,  was  offered  a  fish  that  resembled  the 
Hipusha,  which  is  of  the  unclean  order;  he  took  a  basket, 
put  therein  the  fish,  then,  upon  removing  it  from  the  basket,  he 
found  scales  there,  and  allowed  the  fish.  R.  Ashi  applied  on 
a  similar  occasion  in  Matduria  the  following  test:  he  held  out 
the  fish,  which  resembled  the  unclean  Zehrpeha,  against  the 
sun-rays,  and  perceived  scales,  whereupon  he  allowed  it.  He 
happened  to  be  once  in  another  town,  where  he  was  offered  a 
fish  similar  to  the  unclean  Separnuna,  so  he  had  it  covered  with 
a  white  vessel,  and,  as  he  discovered  scales  on  the  walls  of  the 
vessel,  allowed  the  fish.  Rabba  b.  'Hana  came  once  to  Arka 
Dagma,  where  he  was  given  the  fish  Zachanthra;  but  as  he 
heard  the  house  servants  call  it  Bati,  he  thought  it  may  be  an 
unclean  fish,  and  refrained  from  touching  it ;  in  the  morning,  on 
examining  the  fishes,  he  found  among  them  some  of  the  unclean 
order,  whereupon  he  applied  to  himself  the  verse:  "  No  wrong 
can  come  unawares  to  the  righteous"  [Prov.  xii.  21]. 

"  Atid  the  berries  of  the  C halt  hit  h  are  forbidden,"  This  pro- 
hibition is  based  upon  the  following  fact:  These  berries  must 
be  cut  off  with  a  knife  from  which  they  imbibe  what  may  have 
penetrated  it  from  some  prohibited  food,  although  the  master 
says  that  if  by  the  withdrawal  the  food  loses  in  taste,  such  food 
is  permitted;  here,  however,  the  strong  sap  of  the  Chalthith 
berries  restore  the  fat  possibly  extracted  from  the  knife,  hence 
they  are  forbidden.  R.  Levi's  slave  used  to  sell  Chalthith; 
upon  the  death  of  R.  Levi,  R.  Johanan  was  asked  whether  it 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  75 

was  allowed  henceforth  to  buy  of  the  slave  the  Chalthith,  to 
which  he  replied:  We  always  repose  in  the  slave  the  same  con- 
fidence which  we  showed  his  master  (we  must  thus  trust  also 
after  the  death  of  his  master  that  he  will  not  sell  unclean  for 
clean  things).  R.  Huna  b.  Miniumi,  having  bought  once  blue 
wool  for  tshitzes  from  the  house  of  R.  Amram  the  pious  who 
was  dead  already,  betook  himself  to  R.  Joseph  to  ask  him  whether 
the  use  of  the  said  wool  is  allowed ;  as  he  was  unable  to  give  a 
satisfactory  answer,  R,  Huna  went  away,  when  he  chanced  to 
meet  Hanan  the  tailor,  to  whom  he  disclosed  his  perplexity 
and  the  tailor  said:  How  could  the  poor  Joseph  know  this?  I, 
myself,  bought  once  such  blue  wool  for  the  same  purpose  in  the 
house  of  Rabnah,  the  brother  of  R.  Hyys  b.  Aba;  it  was  after 
the  death  of  Rabnah,  so  I  asked  R.  Mathna  whether  or  not  the 
use  of  the  wool  is  allowed,  and  he  knew  no  answer;  I  then  went 
to  R.  Jehudah  of  Hagruna,  and  he  said:  At  last  you  resort  to 
me  with  a  question.  So  said  Samuel:  We  are  to  trust  the  wife 
of  a  scholar  as  we  have  trusted  her  husband.  Such  is  the  opin- 
ion also  of  the  rabbis,  who  teach  that  the  wife  enjoys  our  con- 
fidence on  the  same  basis  with  her  husband,  which  relation 
holds  good  also  with  regard  to  master  and  slave;  upon  the  death 
of  the  man  his  house  claims  our  confidence  until  sufificient  reason 
appears  to  call  for  the  withdrawing  of  it  therefrom.  The  same 
is  the  case  with  a  stationery  selling  blue  wool  for  tzitzes,  you 
may  buy  here  so  long  as  there  is  no  just  reason  for  not  buying. 
The  rabbis  taught:  The  widow  or  daughter  of  an  Amharez, 
who  is  to  marry  a  scholar,  likewise  the  slave  of  such  who  is  to 
be  sold  to  a  scholar,  must  take  the  oral  oath  that  they  will  ob- 
serve the  commandments  and  prohibitions  of  the  sages.  On  the 
other  hand,  if  the  converse  is  the  case,  they  are  each  free  from 
this  oath,  since  they  are  now  as  trustworthy  as  ever  before ;  this, 
however,  is  but  R.  Meir's  view,  while  R.  Jehuda  finds  the  oath 
necessary  also  in  this  second  case.  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said: 
I  knew  a  woman  who  would  aid  her  husband,  who  was  a  scholar, 
to  put  on  his  Tephilis;  upon  his  death  she  married  a  contrac- 
tor,* whom  she  would  aid  in  putting  on  his  amulet.  Rabh  said: 
Fat,  meat,  wine,  and  blue  wool  for  tzitzes  should  when  sealed 
with  only  one  seal,  never  be  forwarded  through  a  heathen ;  but 
Chilthith,  bread,  muries  and  cheese  may  be  forwarded  with  one 
seal.     In  case  of  bread,  the  heathen  will  surely  not  replace  it, 

*  This  is  explained  in  our  "  History  of  Amulets,  Charms  and  Talismans."  See  there. 


76  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

as  this  could  be  easily  discovered,  the  difference  between  fresh 
and  stale  bread,  between  wheat  or  barley  bread,  being  too 
salient,  and  there  is  no  reason  to  believe  that  as  there  is  one 
seal  he  will  exchange  a  bread  for  its  equal.  But  why  in  the  case 
of  cheese  Rabh  finds  one  seal  sufKicient,  while  for  fat,  which  is 
not  dearer  than  cheese,  he  requires  two?  Said  R.  Kahana: 
Rabh  did  not  mean  fat,  but  fish  cut  in  pieces  and  lacking  the 
marks  by  which  they  might  be  discerned  from  meat.  But  if 
such  be  the  case,  they  could  indeed  be  taken  and  exchanged  for 
meat?  Rabh  considers  two  sorts  of  meat:  fish-meat  and  meat 
proper.  Samuel,  however,  put  it  thus:  Meat,  wine,  blue  wool 
that  are  to  be  forwarded  through  a  heathen,  require  each  two 
seals;  muries,  Chilthith  and  cheese,  only  one  seal;  fish  is  like 
meat,  hence  needs  no  special  mention  (and  bread  he  does  not 
quote  at  all,  for  here  is  nothing  to  fear). 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  should  not  buy  of  a  tradesman  in 
Syria  wine,  muries,  milk,  salcondrit  salt,  Chilthith,  cheese,  un- 
less the  seller  is  positively  known  to  be  a  specialist,  otherwise 
he  is  suspicious  of  mixing  something  forbidden  into  the  said 
articles.  However,  if  an  Israelite  is  visiting  such  a  tradesman 
in  Syria,  he  is  allowed  to  eat  everything  served  at  the  host's 
table,  for  in  the  house  nothing  forbidden  is  used  there.  This 
corroborates  what  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levis  aid — viz. :  An  Israelite 
may  accept  one  of  the  foregoing  articles  as  a  present  from  a 
Syrian  tradesman,  provided  he  gives  it  from  his  household  stock, 
because  in  the  house  nothing  unclean  is  used  there.  What  is 
salcondrit  salt  mentioned  above?  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name 
of  Samuel:  It  is  the  salt  used  by  all  the  nobles  of  Rome.  The 
rabbis  taught:  Black  salcondrit  is  prohibited,  but  not  the  white 
sort.  So  R.  Meier;  R.  Jehudah  said  the  contrary:  White  is  for- 
bidden and  black  is  allowed.  R.  Jehudah  b.  Gamaliel  in  the 
name  of  R.  Hanina  b.  Gamaliel  said :  Both  the  sorts  are  forbid- 
den. Said  Rabba  b.  b.  'Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  He 
who  prohibits  the  use  of  the  white  salt  is  prompted  thereto  by 
the  fact  that  some  put  into  it  the  white  parts  of  the  intestines 
of  unclean  fish;  on  the  other  hand,  that  some  put  into  the  black 
salt  the  black  parts  of  unclean  fish,  is  sufficient  reason  to  him 
who  forbids  it,  while  these  two  facts  justify  the  third  party  to 
prohibit  the  use  of  both  salts.  R.  Abuhu  said  in  the  name  of 
R.  Hanina  b.  Gamaliel:  There  once  lived  an  old  man,  a  heathen, 
in  our  street,  and  he  used  to  grease  with  pork-fat  this  salt  which 
he  was  selling. 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  77 

'*  Is  forbidden.''  The  word  enumerated  is  calculated  to  ex- 
clude other  articles;  which,  then,  are  these?  According  to 
Hiskia,  preserves  into  which  the  majority  are  known  to  omit 
wine,  is  excluded  even  for  benefit ;  and  according  to  R.  Johanan, 
also  muries  and  cheese  from  Beth-Unirka,  R.  Meier's  opinion 
is  cited  here  without  the  mention  of  his  name. 

MISHNA  VI. :  The  following  things  are  allowed  to  eat,  too: 
Milk  milked  by  a  heathen  in  the  presence  of  an  Israelite,  honey 
and  honey-cake  from  the  beehive.  Others  think  grapes,  even 
when  trickling,  are  not  capable  of  defiling,  not  even  as  moisture; 
preserves  into  which  as  a  rule  wine  and  vinegar  are  not  entering; 
pressed  fish  that  is  not  all  cut,  fish-brine  in  which  there  is  a  fish, 
the  leaves  of  Chalthith ;  soft  olives  closely  packed  in  a  barrel. 
R.  Jose  prohibits  them  if  their  kernels  fall  out  easily.  The 
locusts  are  forbidden  when  coming  from  the  grocer's  basket,  but 
are  allowed  when  they  come  from  the  pantry ;  the  same  is  the 
case  with  heave-offering. 

GEMARA:  This  Mishna  bears  out  what  the  rabbis  teach 
elsewhere — viz. :  An  Israelite  sitting  near  the  herd  of  a  heathen 
who  is  milking  milk,  may  drink  it  without  any  fear  that  the 
heathen  has  adulterated  it.  How  was  the  case?  If  there  is  in 
the  herd  no  milk-giving  animal  of  the  unclean  order,  it  is  obvi- 
ous that  the  milk  is  allowed,  but  if  there  be  one  why  should  the 
milk  be  allowed  now  that  the  Israelite  is  unable  to  see  which 
animal  the  heathen  is  milking?  The  rabbis  intend  to  teach 
thus:  The  Israelite  must  occupy  such  a  position  that  upon  rising 
he  could  see  the  heathen  milking,  in  which  case  it  is  allowed, 
for  the  heathen  will  be  afraid  to  mix  in  unclean  milk,  as  the 
Israelite  might  at  any  moment  rise  and  see  what  he  is  doing. 
The  rabbis  emphasize  this  in  order  to  dispel  the  belief  that  the 
milk  is  forbidden  by  reason  of  the  Israelite's  sitting  position ; 
the  possibility,  they  hold,  of  his  rising  and  observing  the 
heathen's  doings  renders  the  milk  allowed. 

'  *  The  honey  is  allowed. ' '  This  could  not  possibly  be  for- 
bidden, as  there  is  not  reasonable  fear  that  the  heathen  will 
mix  in  it  foreign  stuff  which  would  surely  spoil  the  honey. 
Nor  is  there  any  reason  to  fear  that  the  honey  may  be  cooked, 
for  even  if  this  be  the  case,  the  honey  is  allowed,  as  the  basis 
of  the  previously  established  rule  that  whatever  is  eatable 
in  its  raw  state  is  allowed  also  when  cooked  by  a  heathen. 
Finally,  there  can  be  no  fear  that  the  honey  having  been 
possibly   kept    in    forbidden   vessels    may   have    absorbed    the 


78  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

vapor  imbibed  by  the  latter,  since  this  would  spoil  the  flavor 
of  the  honey. 

*'  Also  grapes  even  when  trickling,*'  etc.  This  is  apparently 
contradicted  by  the  following:  Shamai  says,  if  one  gathers 
grapes  for  the  wine-press,  they  are,  when  trickling,  subject  to 
defilement  to  an  extent  as  if  water  has  been  poured  upon  them. 
Hillel,  who  was  at  first  inclined  to  hold  the  contrary,  agreed  at 
last  with  Shamai's  opinion;  hence,  the  moisture  is  defiling? 
This  is  no  contradiction ;  when  one  puts  the  grapes  into  the 
press  it  is  for  the  purpose  of  making  wine,  and  if  the  grapes  are 
moist,  it  is  readily  seen ;  while  here  it  is  a  case  of  eating  grapes 
when  one  intently  looks  for  dry  ones,  and  when  these  trickle 
too,  no  heed  is  taken,  since  they  are  used  for  eating  and  not  for 
making  wine. 

"  Pressed  not  all  cut,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  When  the 
head  and  backbone  are  whole,  it  is  not  all  cut;  "  Fish-brine  in 
which  the  fish  is,"  means,  when  there  are  in  the  brine  one  or 
two  worms  called  Chilbith,  it  is  allowed.  Now,  if  this  is  allowed 
with  one  Chilbith  in  it,  why  does  the  statement  read:  one  or 
two?  In  a  closed  barrel  one  is  sufficient,  while  in  an  open  one 
two  are  required  (because  it  may  be  supposed  that  one  fell  in  from 
some  other  vessel).  It  was  taught:  R.  Huna  says  it  is  allowed 
only  when  its  head  and  backbone  are  recognizable.  R.  Na'hman 
said:  Only  when  either  of  the  two  is  recognizable.  Whereupon 
R.  Uqha  b.  Hama  objected:  We  know  that  fish  with  scales  and 
fins  are  allowed  to  eat;  now,  how  is  it  possible  to  recognize  an 
allowed  fish  by  its  head  or  backbone?  Said  Abayi:  The  fishes 
here  in  question  are  the  Arah  and  Palmuda,  which  are  of  the 
clean  order,  but  whose  heads  resemble  those  of  the  unclean. 
R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Ula:  R.  Huna  and  R.  Na'hman 
have  here  in  view  the  fish-brine,  and  not  at  all  the  fish,  so  that 
the  one  says:  The  fish-lac  is  allowed  when  the  head  of  its  fish 
is  seen,  while  the  other  one  maintains  that  the  backbone,  too, 
must  be  recognized.  R.  Seia  said:  I  was  in  the  habit  of  eating 
fish-brine  with  bread  upon  recognizing  in  it  either  the  head  or 
the  backbone  of  its  fish;  now  that  I  heard  what  R.  Jehudah 
says  in  the  name  of  Ula,  I  began  to  eat  it  only  when  I  recog- 
nized both.  Said  R.  Papa:  The  Halakha  prevails:  The  said 
fishes  are  allowed  only  when  both  head  and  backbone  are  recog- 
nizable. To  this  an  objection  was  raised  from  the  following 
Thosephtha:  Fishes  cut  in  pieces  and  cooked  are  allowed  in  all 
their  parts  if  the  marks  of  the  clean  order  were  found,  and  be  it 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  79 

only  on  one  part  of  a  piece  or  on  one  piece  among  hundreds.  A 
heathen  brought  once  to  market  a  barrelful  of  cut  fish  where 
a  piece  was  found  with  marks  of  the  clean  order  on  it,  and  R. 
Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  allowed  the  whole  barrelful,  which  case  all 
but  corroborates  the  foregoing  objection.  R.  Papa  gave  then 
this  interpretation:  All  the  pieces  of  that  barrel  were  equal. 
But  if  so,  entire  statement  would  appear  superfluous?  Lest  one 
say  it  should  be  feared  perhaps  another  kind  of  fish  happened 
to  be  in  there,  it  teaches  us  that  it  is  not  so.  A  boatful  of 
Zahontha  was  once  brought  to  a  fish-pond ;  R.  Huna  betook 
himself  there  to  inspect  them,  and  upon  perceiving  some  scales 
in  the  boat,  he  allowed  the  whole.  Rabha,  finding  it  astound- 
ing that  by  reason  of  a  few  scales  one  should  allow  all  the  fish, 
regardless  of  the  possibility  that  there  might  be  among  them 
fish  void  of  scales,  heralded  that  these  fish  are  forbidden.  R. 
Huna  b.  Hanina  heralded  the  contrary.  Said  R.  Jeremiah  of 
Diphthi:  I  was  told  by  R.  Papa  that  R.  Huna  allowed  only  the 
fish-brine  and  not  the  fish  itself.  R.  Ashi,  however,  said:  I  was 
told  by  R.  Papa  that  R.  Huna  allowed  the  fish,  too.  As  to 
myself,  I  cannot  prohibit  the  fish  after  hearing  from  R.  Papa 
that  R.  Huna  allows  them;  nor  can  I  allow  them,  however, 
after  having  learned  from  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Ula  that 
only  such  fish  are  allowable  of  which  both  head  and  backbone 
are  recognized.  R.  Hinna  Hanina  b.  Aida,  while  once  at  the 
house  of  R.  Ada  b.  'Ahbah,  said:  If  a  ship-cargo  consisting  of 
barrels  with  fish-brine  is  brought  to  Israelites  and  the  Chalbith 
is  found  in  one  of  the  barrels,  they  all  are  allowed  if  they  were 
open  (for  it  is  plausible  to  assume  that  there  was  Chalbith  in  the 
other  barrels  as  well,  but,  they  being  open,  crept  out).  But  if 
the  barrels  were  tightly  covered  up,  only  the  one  with  the  Chil- 
bith  in  it  is  allowed.  Thereupon  R.  Ada  asked  him:  Whence 
do  you  know  this?  From  three  men  of  great  erudition:  Rabh, 
Samuel  and  R.  Johanan. 

R.  Bruna  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  Fish-entrails  as  well  as 
fish-rye  you  may  buy  only  of  a  specialist.  Said  Ula  to  R.  Dus- 
thai  of  Biri:  Since  Rabh  speaks  of  entrails  and  rye,  it  is  mani- 
fest that  also  unclean  fish  have  rye,  otherwise  he  would  not 
treat  of  the  two  in  the  same  connection.  But  I  am  able  to 
prove  the  contrary  from  the  following:  The  unclean  fish  are 
viviparous,  while  the  clean  ones  are  rye-bearing.  Well,  was 
the  reply,  strike  the  word  rye  from  Rabh's  statement.  Here- 
upon said  R.  Zera:  It  is  not  necessary  to  strike  it  out,  for  the 


8o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

fact  is  that  unclean  fish  are  also  rye-bearing,  but  so  that  their 
offspring  is  mature  in  the  rye  before  it  is  ejected  out  of  the 
body,  while  that  of  the  clean  fish  is  brought  about  by  the  sand. 
But  why  is  it  requisite  that  rye  be  bought  only  of  a  specialist 
now  that  we  have  signs  whereby  to  distinguish  the  clean  from 
the  unclean?  Have  we  not  learned  that  the  marks  which  serve 
to  distinguish  the  clean  from  the  unclean  eggs  of  birds,  are  also 
distinctive  of  clean  and  unclean  eggs  of  fish?  But  how  is  this 
possible  when  according  to  law  the  signs  of  fish  are  the  scales 
and  fins?  The  above  is  then  to  be  thus  understood:  When  the 
eggs  are  elongated,  with  one  end  pointed  and  the  other  round, 
it  is  a  mark  of  clean  ones,  but  if  the  sides  are  both  pointed  or 
both  round,  it  is  of  the  unclean  order.  If  the  yolk  of  the  egg  is 
on  the  surface  and  the  white  in  the  middle,  it  is  a  sign  of  un- 
cleanness;  the  converse  is  a  sign  of  cleanness.  If,  however,  the 
yolk  and  white  are  intermingled,  it  is  a  sign  that  it  comes  from 
reptiles,  and  is  therefore  unclean.  Rabha  said  that  Rabh's  view 
must  be  thus  intepreted :  If  the  fish-rye  is  entirely  squeezed  so 
that  the  said  signs  are  no  longer  discernible. 

And  if  there  be  no  specialist,  what  then?  Said  R.  Jehudah: 
If  the  vendor  says,  I  have  pickled  the  fish  and  know  them  to 
be  clean,  he  is  trusted.  R.  Na'hman  adds:  He  must  show  the 
sort  of  fish  pickled  by  him  and  their  entrails.  R.  Jehudah  in- 
structed the  waiter  Ada:  The  vendor  who  says,  I  have  pickled 
these  fish,  is  to  be  trusted. 

"  The  leaves  of  Chalthith  are  allowed  to  eat.''  This,  being, 
as  it  is,  self-evident,  since  these  leaves  are  not  cut  with  a  knife, 
is  stated  here  in  order  to  indicate  that  such  a  leaf  is  allowed 
even  when  a  bit  of  the  root  is  on  it.  If  not  for  this  specific 
statement,  it  would  be  plausible  to  think  that  a  leaf  with  a  piece 
of  root  on  be  forbidden  by  reason  of  the  apparently  rational 
supposition  that  the  root  may  have  come  from  some  other  vessel 
where  it  possibly  was  cut  with  a  knife. 

"  Very  soft  olives.''  Although  this  is  likewise  self-evident, 
its  statement  is  none  the  less  necessary  in  order  to  prevent  the 
belief  that,  since  the  olives  are  soft,  wine  may  have  been  put  in 
them  to  bring  about  this  softness. 

R.  Jose  said:  What  kind  of  olives  are  these?  Said  R.  Jose 
b.  'Hanina:  Olives  whose  kernels  fall  out  when  you  merely  keep 
them  in  your  hand,  it  is  thus  manifest  that  the  olives  were  kept 
in  wine  in  order  to  make  them  so  soft. 

"  The  locusts,"  etc.     The  rabbis  taught:  Locusts,  Kaprises, 


TRACT  ABUDA   ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  81 

Kapluthuth  brought  from  the  store  or  from  the  locality  where 
they  are  prepared,  or  from  a  boat,  are  allowed ;  but  those  that 
are  sold  by  the  small  tradesmen  are  forbidden,  for  they  spill 
wine  upon  them.  The  same  is  the  case  with  apple-cider,  which 
is  allowed  when  coming  from  the  store,  but  forbidden  when 
bought  of  the  small  tradesmen,  who  mix  wine  in  it. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Rabbi  suffered  once  from  pains  in  the 
stomach,  so  he  asked  if  one  could  tell  him  whether  the  apple- 
cider  of  the  heathen  is  prohibited  or  not ;  said  R.  Ismael  b.  R. 
Jose:  My  father  had  once  suffered  likewise  from  such  pains,  and 
having  taken  some  apple-cider  seventy  years  old,  bought  of 
heathens,  he  felt  relieved.  Said  Rabbi:  You  knew  this  and  let 
me  suffer  so  long!  Thereupon  apple-cider  was  sought  for  and 
found  by  a  heathen  in  the  quantity  of  300  pitchers  seventy  years 
old  already;  Rabbi  drank  therefrom  and  was  cured.  Where- 
upon he  said:  Praised  be  the  Omnipotent  who  put  his  world  in 
the  hands  of  the  guardians! 

"  The  same  is  the  case  with  it.''  How  is  this  to  be  under- 
stood? As  R.  Sheshith  said:  When  a  priest  is  suspected  of 
selling  heave-offering  under  the  pretense  that  it  is  not  terumah, 
one  is  prohibited  from  buying  of  him  whatever  he  sells;  but 
what  he  brings  from  the  pantry,  or  in  baskets,  or  from  the  place 
of  production,  is  allowed  to  buy  of  him ;  for  here  he  is  afraid  to 
falsify,  lest  the  rabbis,  on  being  informed  thereabout,  deprive 
hfm  of  everything. 


CHAPTER   III. 

RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  DERIVING  OF  BENEFIT 
FROM  PROFANED  IDOLS  AND  IMAGES  OF  HEATHENS  AND  ISRAEL- 
ITES.— CONCERNING  UTENSILS  ON  WHICH  ARE  ENGRAVED  THE 
SUN,    THE   MOON    AND    OTHER    PLANETS. 

MISHNA/. :  All  images  are  prohibited,  for  they  are  w^or- 
shipped  at  least  once  a  year,  so  says  R.  Mair.  The  sages, 
however,  say:  Only  those  that  have  in  their  hand  a  staff,  a  bird 
or  a  sphere.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  says:  And  that  has  some- 
thing in  its  hand. 

GEMARA:  If  it  be  true  that  these  images  are  worshipped 
at  least  once  during  the  year,  why  do  the  rabbis  allow  their  use 
at  all?  Said  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Joseph  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan: 
At  the  native  place  of  R.  Mair  the  heathens  had  the  custom  of 
worshipping  each  image  once  a  year,  in  other  places  this  was 
not  the  custom,  and  as  R.  Mair  lays  down  his  precept  on  the 
basis  of  the  minority  of  cases  (in  order  to  exclude  misconcep- 
tions), he  accordingly  prohibits  the  images;  while  the  rabbis 
who  do  not  follow  this  principle,  allow  to  derive  benefit  from 
them.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  The 
Mishna  here  is  concerned  not  with  ordinary  images,  but  with 
such  as  are  wrought  to  honor  kings.  Rabba  b.  b.  'Hana  said  in 
the  name  of  Johanan:  R.  Mair's  prohibition  concerns  images 
erected  in  the  gates  of  the  place.  It  was  taught,  Rabba  said: 
The  rabbis  allow  only  the  use  of  city  images,  as  these  are  but 
ornaments  and  not  idols,  but  they  prohibit  the  images  of  the 
villages  which  are  worshipped  idols. 

The  sages  say,''  etc.  This  prohibition  is  based  upon  the 
following  reasons:  The  stafif  in  the  hand  of  the  idol  is  an  indica- 
tion that  it  submits  itself  to  the  whole  world.  The  bird  in  the 
hand  of  the  idol  indicates  that,  like  the  bird,  it  sacrifices  itself 
for  the  world.  Finally,  the  sphere  is  to  indicate  that  it  sacri- 
fices itself  for  the  whole  globe.  Later  on  the  prohibition  was 
extended  also  to  idols  with  a  sword  in  hand,  a  crown  on  the 
head,  or  a  seal-ring  on  the  finger.     Formerly  the  belief  was  cur- 

82 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  83 

rent  that  the  sword  is  no  divine  emblem,  but  that  of  a  robber; 
but  it  was  learned  later  that  an  image  with  a  sword  symbolizes 
him  who  has  sacrificed  himself  for  the  whole  world.  As  for  the 
crown,  it  was  regarded  an  insignificant  wreath,  but  later  experi- 
ence  showed  it  to  represent  a  king's  diadem.  Finally,  the  seal- 
ring  was  always  believed  to  be  the  token  of  a  slave,  but  later 
experience  taught  that  an  image  with  such  a  ring  represents 
him  who  resolved  to  die  for  the  whole  world. 

MISHNA  //. :  If  one  finds  fragments  of  images,  he  is 
allowed  to  use  them.  However,  if  he  finds  fragments  in  form 
of  a  hand  or  a  foot,  they  are  prohibited,  for  such  are  worshipped. 

GEMARA:  Samuel  said:  Even  fragments  of  a  worshipped 
idol  are  allowed.  But  does  not  the  Mishna  call  for  fragments 
of  images?  The  Mishna  appends  the  prohibition  as  regards  even 
the  hand  or  foot  of  an  image,  wherefor  it  uses  the  word  image 
also  before ;  but  in  fact  implies  the  allowance  of  fragments  of  an 
idol,  too.  But  why  should  these  be  prohibited,  being,  as  they 
are,  only  fragments,  and  such  are  allowed  by  Samuel?  Samuel 
explains  this  prohibition  of  the  Mishna  thus:  If  one  finds  a  hand 
or  a  foot  which  he  perceives  is  not  broken  off  an  idol,  but  has 
the  form  of  objects  specially  prepared  for  worship,  it  is  then 
prohibited,  for  the  heathens  erect  a  kind  of  altar  for  such  ob- 
jects, where  they  put  them  for  worship. 

It  was  taught:  R.  Johanan  prohibits  an  idol  that  was  broken 
by  itself  {i.e.,  without  the  cooperation  of  a  human  being),  while 
R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish  allows  it.  The  former  advances  the  reason 
that  the  broken  idol  was  not  yet  profaned  by  any  one,  while 
according  to  the  latter,  the  breaking  is  sufificient  profanation, 
for  people  would  say:  How  could  this  idol  save  others  when  it 
cannot  save  itself?  R.  Johanan  objected  to  Resh  Lakish,  it 
reads  [I  Sam.  v.  4,  5]:  "  And  the  head  of  Dagon  and  both  the 
palms  of  his  hands  were  cut  off  upon  the  threshold.  .  .  .  There- 
fore do  the  priests  of  Dagon  .  .  .  not  step  on  the  threshold  of 
Dagon,"  etc.  (whence  it  is  obvious  that  an  idol,  even  when 
broken  by  itself,  is  still  held  sacred  by  the  heathens!)  Here- 
upon the  other  replied:  This  proves  nought  against  my  opinion ; 
the  heathen,  in  the  cited  case,  said  that  the  supreme  god  has 
abandoned  the  Dagon,  dragged  up  to  the  threshold  of  the  tem- 
ple, and  only  then  he  was  reconciled,  wherefore  they  regard  the 
threshold  as  sacred,  but  not  more  the  Dagon.  Then  R.  Johanan 
went  on  to  object:  The  Mishna  allows  the  using  of  fragments 
from  images,  whence  it  follows  that  fragments  from  images  but 


84  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

not  from  actual  idols  are  allowed;  and  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish 
rejoined:  Thus,  you  must  needs  infer  that  only  broken  images 
are  allowed  to  the  exclusion  of  whole  images  that  are  forbidden, 
since  the  Mishna  here  is  not  concerned  with  idols ;  and  this  is 
R.  Mair's  opinion,  quoted  without  the  mention  of  his  name. 
This  admitted,  the  following  may  be  advanced  against  R. 
Johanan's  view,  remembering  that  we  conclude  from  the  words 
of  R.  Mair  to  those  of  the  rabbis:  R.  Mair  prohibits  whole 
images,  but  allows  fragments  therefrom;  hence  we  say:  The 
rabbis  prohibit  whole  idols,  but  fragments  therefrom  they,  too, 
allow.  Why,  then,  does  R.  Johanan  forbid  idol  fragments? 
Simply  because  images  do  not  have  the  same  relations  as  idols 
and  are  not,  therefore,  comparable  with  them,  for  as  to  images 
it  is  wholly  uncertain  whether  or  not  they  were  worshipped. 
Assuming,  then,  that  they  had  been  worshipped  and  we  after- 
ward found  a  broken  image,  are  we  not  justified  in  further 
assuming  that  some  one  has  broken  it  purposely,  whereby  it  has 
been  indeed  profaned,  and  thus  its  use  is  allowed?  On  the 
other  hand,  regarding  real  idols,  it  is  certain  that  they  were  wor- 
shipped ;  what  is  uncertain  here  is  whether  the  found  broken 
idol  was  of  itself  broken  or  by  the  cooperation  of  a  human  being. 
Now,  it  is  well  known  that  an  uncertainty  cannot  negate  a  cer- 
tainty;  and  it  is  on  the  basis  of  these  considerations  that  broken 
images  are  allowed  and  broken  idols  are  forbidden.  R.  Johanan 
was  further  arguing:  It  is  taught  that  a  heathen  can  profane  the 
idol  of  his  fellow  heathen  as  well  as  his  own,  while  an  Israelite 
cannot  profane  the  idol  of  a  heathen.  Why,  then,  should  we 
not  consider  an  idol  profaned  by  an  Israelite  as  one  broken  of 
itself?  Said  Abayi,  The  foregoing  teaching  is  to  be  thus  under- 
stood: Only  then  is  the  idol  not  profaned,  when  the  Israelite  by 
means  of  hammer  exerted  pressure  upon  its  face.  But  have  we 
not  learned  that  such  pressure,  even  if  not  attended  with  break- 
ing, suffices  to  profane  the  idol?  Well,  this  is  to  say  that  w^hen 
the  heathen  does  it,  but  not  when  an  Israelite,  who,  in  order  to 
profane  an  idol,  must  break  off  a  piece  therefrom.  Rabba,  how- 
ever, said:  Properly  speaking,  the  idol  is  profaned  when  the 
Israelite  presses  in  its  face ;  however,  the  rabbis  feared,  lest  the 
Israelite  should  preserve  such  an  idol  before  its  face  is  pressed 
in  by  him,  and  then,  upon  becoming  the  possession  of  an  Israel- 
ite, it  cannot  be  any  longer  profaned.  R.  Johanan  advanced 
yet  another  objection:  It  was  taught:  When  a  heathen  uses  the 
'*nnes  of  Markuliss  to  pave  therewith  a  street  or  a  theatre,  an 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  85 

Israelite  is  allowed  to  tread  upon  such  pavement;  but  he  is  pro- 
hibited therefrom  if  an  Israelite  paved  with  these  stones.  Why- 
should  not  the  stones  be  regarded  like  an  idol  that  breaks  of  itself? 
This  prohibition  was  promulgated  for  the  same  reason  indicated 
above  by  Rabha.  He  made  a  further  objection  from  the  follow- 
ing: If  a  heathen  breaks  off  a  piece  from  an  idol  for  his  own  use, 
the  idol  is  thereby  profaned  and  the  Israelite  is  therefore  allowed 
to  use  it  as  well  as  the  severed  piece.  If,  however,  the  heathen 
did  it  with  a  view  to  embellish  the  idol,  it  is  not  profaned 
thereby,  and  is  consequently  prohibited ;  the  piece,  however,  is 
allowed.  But  if  this  be  done  by  an  Israelite,  both  idol  and  piece 
are  forbidden ;  because  this  case  is  considered  analogous  to  that 
of  an  idol  broken  of  itself?  This  prohibition  is  likewise  based 
upon  the  foregoing  declaration  of  Rabha. 

Then  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish  raised  the  following  objection  to 
R.  Johanan's  opinion:  A  bird's  nest  on  the  top  of  a  tree  belong- 
ing to  the  temple  is  prohibited  to  derive  benefit  therefrom,  but 
if  one  has  derived  such,  no  sin-offering  is  obligatory.  However, 
such  a  nest  when  on  a  tree  of  a  grove  is  allowed  to  be  pulled  down 
by  a  pipe  and  to  be  made  use  of;  now,  as  in  all  probability  the 
birds  use  for  their  nests  the  wood  of  the  tree  they  inhabit,  these 
nests  are  allowed,  whence  it  would  follow  that  the  use  of  a  self- 
broken  idol  is  likewise  allowed?  Nay,  not  at  all:  Here,  in  the 
case  of  the  bird's  nest  that  is  allowed,  such  nests  are  spoken  of 
for  the  building  of  which  it  is  known  with  certainty  the  birds 
take  the  materials  from  other  trees  and  not  from  the  idol  grove. 
R.  Abuhu  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  however,  said:  In  the 
Boraitha  it  is  not  the  nests,  but  rather  the  young  birds  of  the 
nests  that  are  concerned.  The  young  birds  are  allowed,  pro- 
vided their  nest  is  pulled  down  by  a  pipe  (since  climbing  upon 
the  tree,  if  allowed,  may  lead  also  to  the  using  of  the  forbidden 
tree  itself).  Said  R.  Jacob  to  R,  Jeremiah  b.  To'hlipha:  Let  me 
explain  to  you  the  Halakha  in  question:  The  birds  in  the  nests 
of  trees  belonging  to  the  temple  as  well  as  groves,  are  allowed, 
for  they  fly  around;  but  the  eggs  in  these  are  forbidden,  for 
they,  remaining  as  they  do  in  the  place,  derive  use  from  the 
tree ;  hence,  if  I  take  the  eggs,  I  likewise  derive  some  use  from 
the  tree  indirectly.  Said  R.  Ashi:  Young  birds  unable  to  fly 
are  subject  to  the  same  rule  with  the  eggs. 

MISHNA///. :  If  one  finds  vessels  with  the  image  of  the 
sun,  moon,  or  of  a  dragon  on  them,  he  must  throw  them  into 
the  salt  lake.     R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  said;  Only  when  these 


86  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

vessels  are  of  a  distinguished  character  they  are  forbidden,  while 
insignificant  vessels  with  such  images  on  are  allowed. 

GEMARA:  This  Mishna  would  lead  to  the  conclusion  that 
the  heathens  worship  only  the  sun,  the  moon,  and  the  dragon. 
However,  I  am  in  a  position  to  prove  that  they  worship  yet 
other  objects.  There  is  a  Thosephtha:  If  one  slaughter  an  ani- 
mal in  the  name  of  the  sea,  the  rivers,  the  desert,  the  sun,  the 
moon,  stars,  planets,  or  the  name  of  the  archangel  Michael,  or 
even  in  that  of  the  smallest  gnat,  it  is  considered  an  offering  to 
the  dead.  Abayi  solved  this  difficulty  thus:  The  heathens,  it 
is  true,  are  worshipping  many  an  object,  but  as  regards  images 
they  worship  only  those  of  the  objects  mentioned  in  the  Mishna; 
other  images  serve  but  to  decorate  houses  and  towns.  R. 
Sheshith,  who  was  gathering  Mishnaioth  for  explaining  them, 
taught  thus:  The  images  of  all  the  planets  are  allowed,  except- 
ing those  of  the  sun  and  the  moon.  All  statues  are  allowed, 
excepting  those  of  a  human  being.  All  pictures  are  allowed, 
excepting  the  image  of  a  dragon. 

The  master  said :  The  images  of  all  the  planets  are  allowed, 
etc.  How  is  the  case?  If  to  make  these  images,  this  is  ex- 
pressly prohibited,  as  it  reads  [Exod.  xx.  23]:  "  You  shall  not 
make  beside  me" — that  is  to  say,  not  to  make  any  representa- 
tions of  my  servants  in  heaven.  Hence,  what  is  allowed  by  the 
master  is  not  the  making,  but  the  finding  of  such  images,  which 
is  in  accord  with  the  Mishna  inasmuch  as  it  prohibits  only  those 
of  the  sun  and  moon.  But  again,  is  not  the  finding  of  a  statue 
of  a  person  allowed  in  the  Mishna  by  implication,  while  he  for- 
bids it?  Must  we  not  say,  then,  that  it  is  the  making  that  is 
concerned  here  and  is  in  accord  with  R.  Huna  b.  Jehoshua? 
Assuming  then  that  the  allowance  concerns  the  making,  we  are 
confronted  with  another  difficulty:  The  last  statement  prohibits 
the  reproduction  of  a  dragon,  which  is  by  law  allowed;  we 
should  then  of  necessity  have  to  teach  that  it  is  the  finding  that 
is  allowed,  which  is  in  accordance  with  the  Mishna,  so  that  of 
the  three  statements  in  the  Boraitha  the  first  and  third  refer  to 
the  finding,  while  the  middle  one  to  the  making?  Thereupon 
said  Abayi  that  it  is  so.  Rabha,  however,  asserted  that  the 
three  statements  have  all  reference  to  the  finding,  and  as  for  the 
statue  of  a  person,  he  says,  the  Boraitha  is  in  accordance  with 
the  following:  R.  Jehudah  prohibits  also  found  vessels  with  the 
image  of  a  nurse  or  of  a  serapis  on  them.  The  nurse  signifies  Eva, 
who  was  nurse  to  the  whole  world ;  serapis  signifies  Joseph,  who 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  87 

was  a  prince  and  supplied  the  whole  world  with  bread,  thereby 
appeasing  mankind.  The  human  image  and  that  of  a  nurse  are 
however,  prohibited  only  when  having  respectively  a  measure  in 
the  hand  and  a  son  in  the  arms  whom  she  is  nursing.  The  rabbis 
taught:  How  does  the  prohibited  dragon  image  look?  Said  R. 
Simeon  b.  Elazar,  it  has  scales  between  the  joints.  R.  Assi  con- 
fines these  to  the  neck  joints  only.  Said  R.  'Hama  b.  Chanina: 
The  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar.  Rabbah  b.  b. 
'Hama  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi:  I  was  walking 
with  Eliezer  Hakaphar  the  great,  when  he  happened  to  find  a 
ring  with  the  image  of  a  dragon  on  it.  While  standing  still 
before  the  ring  he  noticed  a  heathen  boy  pass,  and  spoke  not  to 
him ;  later  an  adult  heathen  came  passing  by,  and  to  him  he 
said:  profane  this  ring  (break  a  piece  off  it),  and  as  the  heathen 
did  not  obey,  he  hit  him  till  he  profaned  the  ring.  This  inci- 
dent taught  him  three  things:  (i)  A  heathen  may  profane  his  own 
idol  as  well  as  that  of  a  stranger;  (2)  only  he  is  capable  of  pro- 
faning an  idol,  who  knows  the  nature  of  idol  and  idol  worship, 
and  (3)  one  may  compel  the  heathen  to  profane  an  idol.  R. 
Hanina,  however,  ridiculed  this,  saying:  Was  not  R.  Eliezer 
aware  of  the  following  Boraitha:  When  one  saves  something 
from  a  lion,  a  bear,  a  leopard,  or  from  the  hands  of  burglars, 
from  a  river,  or  picks  up  what  the  sea-waves  thrust  upon  the 
shore,  or  while  crossing  a  stream,  or  simply  in  the  street,  the 
theatre,  or  generally  in  a  place  where  many  people  pass,  all  this, 
be  it  what  it  may,  he  can  consider  his  own,  for  the  owner  hav- 
ing lost  his  property  in  this  manner  or  in  such  a  place,  has  surely 
abandoned  the  idea  of  finding  it.  In  the  light  of  this  consider- 
ation it  is  obvious  that  the  heathen  owner  of  the  ring,  having 
lost  it  in  the  street,  has  renounced  the  hope  to  find  it,  and 
thereby  profaned  it  as  an  idol ;  why,  then,  was  it  according  to 
R.  Eliezer  necessary  to  profane  it  again?  Abaye  explained  it 
thus:  The  owner  of  this  ring  has,  it  is  true,  given  up  the  idea  of 
getting  it  back  as  property,  but  continues  to  consider  it  an  idol 
which,  if  found  by  a  heathen,  will  be  worshipped,  and  if  by  an 
Israelite,  he  will  surely  sell  it  to  a  heathen ;  hence  the  fact  of 
being  lost  does  not  profane  the  idol,  and  R.  Eliezer  was  in  the 
right. 

"  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  says,"  etc.  Which  objects  are  the 
distinguished  and  which  the  insignificant  ones?  Said  Rabh: 
Vessels  that  are  not  made  wet  are  of  the  former  sort;  Samuel, 
however,  maintains  that  vessels  used  to  eat  in  are  of  the  insig- 


88  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

nificant,  while  those  used  as  ornaments  are  of  the  distinguished 
kind.  Yea,  it  was  taught,  there  is  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with 
Samuel:  Distinguished  are  the  vessels  found  on  arm-bands,  nose- 
bands and  finger-rings,  while  of  the  insignificant  sort  are,  kettles, 
pans,  pitchers,  bed-clothes,  towels  (and  the  images  found  there- 
on are  allowed). 

MISHNA/F. :  R.  Jose  said:  One  may  grind  the  images  and 
scatter  them  to  the  wind,  or  sink  them  into  the  sea.  Thereupon 
it  was  objected:  They  might  turn  into  dung,  and  it  reads  [Deut. 
xii.  1 8]:  "  And  there  shall  not  cleave  to  thy  hand  aught  of  the 
devoted  things. " 

GEMARA:  There  is  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jose  met  the  objection 
by  quoting  [ibid.  ix.  21]:  "  And  your  work  of  sin,  which  ye 
have  made,  the  calf,  I  took  and  burnt  it  in  fire,  and  stamped  it, 
grinding  it  very  small,  until  it  was  as  fine  as  dust:  and  I  cast  the 
dust  thereof  into  the  brook  that  descendeth  from  the  mount." 
The  rabbis,  however,  rejoined:  This  does  not  corroborate  your 
view.  Moses  cast  the  dust  of  the  golden  calf  into  the  water  not 
to  destroy  it  thus,  but  in  order  that  he  might  give  this  mixed 
water  to  the  Israelites  to  drink,  thus  testing  who  of  them  wor- 
shipped the  calf,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  test  of  the  bitter 
water  was  applied  by  the  priest  to  detect  whether  a  woman  has 
committed  adultery  (conf.  Numb.  v.  18).  This  is  clearly  shown 
from  the  following  [Exod.  xxxii.  20] :  "...  he  strewed  it  upon 
the  water  and  made  the  children  of  Israel  drink  of  it."  There- 
upon replied  R.  Jose,  quoting  as  follows  [II  Chron,  xv.  16]  :  "  ... 
he  removed  Ma'chah  his  mother  from  being  queen,  because  she 
had  made  a  scandalous  image  for  the  grove,  and  Assa  cut  down 
her  scandalous  image  and  had  it  ground  up,  and  burnt  it  by  the 
brook  Kidron,"  which  passage  clearly  shows  that  it  is  allowed 
to  grind  up  the  idol  and  scatter  it  to  the  wind.  In  the  vale  of 
Kidron,  he  was  answered,  there  is  no  vegetation.  But  have  we 
not  learned  that  the  blood  of  the  sacrifices  from  both  the  inner 
and  outer  altar  after  uniting  in  the  aqueduct  was  flowing  into 
the  vale  of  Kidron,  where  it  was  being  sold  as  dung  for  the  gar- 
dens; when  one  took  some  of  this  blood  without  paying  therefor 
he  was  to  bring  a  sin-offering;  hence,  there  were  gardens  in  the 
vale  of  Kidron?  Yea,  but  there  are  there  also  great  expanses 
void  of  all  vegetation.  R.  Jose  was  then  further  arguing,  it 
reads  [II  Kings,  xviii.  4]:  "  ...  and  stamped  in  pieces  the 
copper  serpent  that  Moses  had  made,"  etc.  And  it  was  re- 
torted:   This  is   no   corroboration    of   your  view,    for  it  reads 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  89^ 

[Numb.  xxi.  8]:  "  And  the  Lord  said  unto  Moses,  Make  (to) 
thyself  a  serpent";  here  the  word  (to)  'thyself  indicates  that 
Moses  was  to  make  the  serpent  of  his  own  metal,  whence  it  fol- 
lows that  when  in  later  times  the  Israelites  began  to  worship  it, 
the  serpent  did  not  become  an  idol  whose  use  is  forbidden,  for 
others'  property,  even  when  worshipped,  cannot  become  an  idol 
whose  use  is  prohibited ;  accordingly.  King  Hiskia  was  not 
obliged  to  destroy  the  serpent  in  question,  but  had  in  some  way 
or  other  to  render  it  impossible  to  be  the  object  of  worship  for 
the  Israelites.  Rejoined  R.  Jose,  hence  [II  Sam.  v.  21]:  "  And 
they  left  their  idols  there;  but  David  and  his  men  scattered 
them  "  ;  hence,  scattering  suffices  (and  that  R.  Jose  interpreted 
the  word  Vaissuom  =  scattered  them — correctly,  may  be  shown 
yet  from  R.  Joseph's  interpretation  of  [Is,  xli.  16]:  "Scatter 
them  so  that  the  wind  carry  them  off.")  He  was  again  answered: 
Nor  does  this  quotation  bear  you  out,  for  it  reads  [I  Chron.  xiv. 
12]:  "  And  they  left  their  idols  there,  and  David  had  them  burn 
with  fire."  Now  that  the  first-cited  verse  is  from  II  Samuel, 
and  this  one  from  I  Chronicles,  the  two  cannot  be  understood 
literally;  but  the  right  inference  is  that  word  vaissuom  means: 
he  picked  them  up,  i.e.,  he  carried  them  off  in  order  to  make 
use  of  them.  The  apparent  contradictions  of  the  two  quoted 
verses  are  explained  by  R.  Huna  thus:  At  first  David  ordained 
to  burn  the  idols,  since  the  Israelites  could  not  possibly  profane 
them ;  but  before  this  order  was  executed,  the  heathen,  Ithai 
the  Gethite,  had  come  and  profaned  the  idols,  whereupon  their 
use  became  permitted,  and  therefore  David  had  them  carried 
away.  Similarly  we  find  [II  Sam.  xii.  30]:  "  And  he  took  the 
Crown  of  Malkam  from  off  his  head ;  its  weight  was  a  talent  of 
gold  and  had  precious  stones,  and  had  it  put  upon  the  head  of 
David  " ;  now,  how  could  he  make  use  of  the  crown  of  an  idol? 
It  was  again  Ithai  the  Gethite  who,  according  to  R.  Na'hman, 
had  first  profaned  it.  But  look  here,  how  could  David's  head 
carry  a  crown  of  a  talent?  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh 
explains  this  figuratively  to  mean:  The  crown  was  worthy  of 
adorning  the  head  of  David.  However,  R.  Joseb.  'Hanina  said 
that  the  crown  was  kept  in  the  air  by  the  force  of  a  magnet,  and 
David  was  sitting  beneath  it,  so  that  it  looked  as  if  he  had  it 
on.  But  R.  Elazar  said:  David  actually  had  the  crown  on  his 
head,  but  it  was  not  of  a  talent  weight,  as  it  consisted  only  of 
precious  stones,  its  worth  amounted  to  that  of  a  talent  in  gold. 
It  reads  [Psalm,  cxix.  56] :  "  T/iis  was  accorded  to  me,  because 


90  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

I  observed  thy  commands."  What  is  the  word  "  this  "  to  em- 
phasize here?  David  wants  to  point  out  tJiis  testimonial  he 
obtained  for  the  said  observance.  What  testimonial?  Said  R. 
Jehoshua  b.  Levi:  This  is  the  crown  which  had  the  peculiarity 
to  fit  only  (to)  him  who  possessed  the  kingdom,  and  the  fitting  was 
on  the  spot  where  the  Thephelin  are  carried.  [II  Kings,  xi.  12]: 
"  And  he  brought  forth  the  King's  son,  and  put  the  crown  upon 
him,  and  (gave  him)  the  testimony."  The  crown  is  the  princely 
diadem,  but  what  is  the  "testimony"?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in 
the  name  of  Rabh:  This  crown  was  itself  testimony  in  the  same 
time,  as  it  fitted  only  him  to  whom  the  kingdom  belonged,  i.e., 
to  the  house  of  David. 

It  reads  [I  Kings,  i.  5]:  "  And  Adoniyah,  the  son  of  Chag- 
gith,  exalted  himself,  saying,  I  shall  be  king,  and  he  procured 
himself  a  chariot  and  horsemen  and  fifty  men  who  ran  before 
him."  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  Adoniyah  imag- 
ined that  the  crown  will  fit  him,  but  this  was  not  the  case. 
What  kind  of  distinctive  marks  had  the  mentioned  forerunners? 
We  were  told  that  their  spleens  were  cut  out,  and  the  flesh  was 
removed  from  their  footsoles  in  order  that  they  might  run  with 
greater  speed. 

MISHNA  V.'.  Peroklas,  the  son  of  a  philosopher,  asked 
once  R.  Gamaliel  at  Ako,  who  was  then  bathing  in  the  bath  of 
the  goddess  Aphrodite:  Your  law  prescribes  [Deut.  xiii.  17]: 
"Let  nothing  of  the  devoted  objects  cleave  to  thy  hands"; 
why,  then,  do  you  bathe  in  the  bath  of  Aphrodite?  And  he 
answered:  Such  questions  are  not  answered — at  a  bathing  place. 
After  he  had  left  the  bath  he  said:  I  am  not  come  into  her 
domain,  but  it  is  she  that  is  come  into  mine;  truly,  people  do 
not  say:  The  bath  is  erected  to  adorn  the  Aphrodite,  but  the 
Aphrodite  is  to  ornate  the  bath ;  moreover,  you  would  not  agree 
for  any  amount  of  money  to  appear  before  your  idol  when  you 
are  naked  or  urinating.  The  Aphrodite,  however,  stands  on 
the  channel,  and  everybody  urinates  in  front  of  her.  The  law 
says  their  gods,  i.e.,  to  say  such  toward  whom  one  behaves  with 
dignity  inspired  by  something  divine;  while  whatever  does  not 
inspire  such  a  behavior,  is  allowed. 

GEMARA:  Why  did  R.  Gamaliel  at  all  answer  in  the  bath  ? 
Has  not  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  said  in  the  name  of  R,  Johanan: 
Everywhere  but  in  the  bath  and  toilet  it  is  allowed  to  speculate 
upon  subjects  of  the  Law?  Is  it,  you  think,  because  he  an- 
swered him  not  in  the  holy  tongue?     Has  not  Abayi  said  that 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  91 

indifferent  matters  may  be  spoken  of  in  the  holy  tongue  and  be 
it  in  the  bath  or  toilet  room,  while  holy  subjects  must  not  be 
discussed  in  these  places,  not  even  in  another  tongue  (than  the 
holy  one)?  There  is  a  Boraitha:  R.  Gamaliel  gave,  indeed,  no 
answer,  until  he  had  left  the  bath,  when  he  said:  In  a  bathing 
place  one  is  not  to  answer.  R.  'Hama  b.  Joseph  said  in  the 
name  of  R.  Oshia:  R.  Gamaliel  gave  Peroklas  an  evasive  an- 
swer; but  /(Hama)  say  it  was  not  evasive.  The  evasiveness  of 
the  answer  apparently  consisted  in  that  he  said,  this  (Aphrodite) 
stands  on  the  channel,  and  everybody  urinates  in  front  of  her; 
thereby  R.  Gamaliel  wanted  to  prove  that  the  Aphrodite  is  pro- 
faned and  he  may,  therefore,  use  her,  which  is  not  the  case; 
because  Rabha  said:  The  front  site  of  the  very  idol  Peor  is  used 
as  a  toilet-room,  and  yet  it  is  not  profaned  thereby;  conse- 
quently, the  Aphrodite  is  not  profaned  either  by  the  fact  of 
urinating  before  her.  None  the  less,  I  am  about  to  prove  that 
R.  Gamaliel's  answer  was,  after  all,  not  evasive.  The  Peor  and 
the  Aphrodite  are  incomparable;  the  worship  of  the  former  con- 
sists in  excrementing  before  it,  while  that  of  Aphrodite  was  not 
of  this  kind,  wherefore  she  is  actually  profaned  thereby. 
Abayi,  however,  said:  The  evasiveness  lies  in  his  saying,  I  am 
not  come  into  her  domain,  but  she  is  come  into  mine,  where- 
by he  surely  meant  that  if  he  came  into  her  domain,  she  would 
be  prohibited,  which  is  not  the  case,  since  we  have  learned 
that  a  garden  or  a  bath-house  belonging  to  an  idol,  is  al- 
lowed when  offered  gratis,  but  not  for  pay.  Thus  R.  Gamaliel 
was  allowed  to  bathe  there  even  if  the  place  belonged  to  the 
Aphrodite,  hence,  the  evasiveness  of  his  answer;  but  I  say  this 
was  not  evasive  because  assuming  that  the  bath  belonged  to  the 
Aphrodite,  R.  Gamaliel  could  not  go  in  there,  for  the  heathens 
would  have  considered  it  a  honor  if  so  distinguished  a  personage 
had  gone  to  their  bath  and  be  it  gratis.  R.  Simi  b.  'Hyye  said  : 
The  evasiveness  in  the  answer  did  not  consist  in  what  has  been 
here  recited,  but  in  what  R.  Gamaliel  said  further :  It  stands  on 
the  channel  and  everybody,  etc.,  whereby  he  intends  to  indicate 
that  the  Aphrodite  is  profaned,  whereas  we  have  learned  that 
by  spitting  or  urinating  before  the  idol,  or  by  dragging  it  in  the 
dirt,  one  does  not  profane  it ;  but  I  (Simi)  say  it  was  not  evasive, 
as  such  act  as  described  here  one  may  have  committed  once 
when  moved  perhaps  by  anger,  but  then  he  might  become  rec- 
onciled; while  there,  in  the  case  of  the  Aphrodite,  this  takes 
place  daily  and  is  therefore  a  real  profanation.     Rabba  b.  Ula 


92  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

said :  R.  Oshia  thought  to  have  found  the  evasive  point  in  what 
R.  Gamaliel  said :  People  do  not  say  that  the  bath-house  is 
erected  to  adorn  the  Aphrodite,  but,  etc.,  whence  it  would  fol- 
low that  if  the  reverse  were  the  case,  the  visiting  of  the  bath 
would  be  forbidden,  whereas  we  have  learned:  When  one  says, 
this  house  or  this  goblet  be  devoted  to  the  idol,  he  said  nothing, 
for  only  such  objects  as  are  actually  sacrificed  to  the  idol,  are 
forbidden.  Hence,  the  bath  in  question  would  not  be  prohib- 
ited. And  I,  Rabba,  say:  R.  Gamaliel's  answer  was  after  all 
not  evasive,  because  admitting  that  the  bath-house  is  not  offered 
as  a  sacrifice  to  the  idol,  it  is  none  the  less  put  up  as  a  decora- 
tion for  it,  and  then  it  would  indeed  be  prohibited. 

MISHNA  VL:  The  mountains  and  hills  worshipped  by 
heathens  are  allowed  to  use,  but  not  the  things  brought  upon 
them,  for  it  reads  [Deut.  vii.  25]:  "  Thou  shalt  not  covet  the 
silver  or  gold  that  is  on  them,  so  that  thou  wouldst  take  it  unto 
thyself."  R.  Jose  the  Galilean  says,  it  reads  [ibid.  xii.  2]: 
"  Their  gods  on  the  mountains,"  but  not  their  mountains  as 
gods;  "their  gods  on  the  hills,"  but  not  their  hills  as  gods. 
Why,  then,  is  a  grove  prohibited?  Because  it  is  established  by 
the  hand  of  man,  and  whatever  is  made  by  human  hand  is  for- 
bidden. Hereupon  said  R.  Aqiba:  I  should  explain  and  inter- 
pret this  statement  thus:  Wherever  you  find  a  high  mountain, 
an  elevated  hill,  a  leafy  tree,  there  is  surely  an  idol  there. 

GEMARA :  What  is  the  point  of  difference  between  the 
opinion  expressed  by  the  first  Tana  of  the  Mishna  and  that  of 
R.  Jose?  Said  Rami  b.  'Hama  in  the  name  of  Resh  Lakish :  It 
concerns  the  covering  of  mountains,  which  the  former  prohibits 
by  reason  of  its  having  been  brought  up  on  the  mountain,  while 
the  latter  allows  it  because,  being,  as  it  is,  fastened  to  the  moun- 
tain, it  is  to  be  treated  as  the  mountain  itself.  R.  Sheshith, 
however,  said:  Nay;  R.  Jose,  too,  prohibits  it,  and  their  point 
of  difference  is  in  the  following:  A  tree  worshipped  after  it  has 
been  planted  and  grown  to  be  big,  is,  according  to  the  first 
Tana  of  the  Mishna,  allowed  by  reason  of  its  being  worshipped 
after  it  has  taken  root  on  the  mountain,  while  R.  Jose  prohibits 
it  because  it  was  planted  by  human  hands.  This  view  is  shared 
also  by  R.  Jose  b.  Jehudah,  who  says,  it  reads  [Deut.  xii,  2]  : 
"  Ye  shall  utterly  destroy  all  the  places  whereon  .  .  .  (they) 
served  their  gods,  upon  the  high  mountains,  and  upon  the  hills, 
and  under  every  green  tree,"  whence  it  follows  that  the  gods 
on  the  mountains,  and  not  the  mountains  themselves,  are  for- 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  93 

bidden ;  similarly  with  the  hills.  Lest  the  inference  be  drawn 
that  what  is  put  under  the  tree  is  forbidden  but  not  the  tree 
itself,  it  reads  in  the  next  verse:  "  Their  groves  ye  shall  burn 
with  fire,"  i.e.,  the  tree  is  likewise  prohibited.  But  why  is  it 
stated:  "Under  every  green  tree"?  This  is  explained  in  the 
sense  of  R.  Aqiba's  statement  in  the  Mishna.  Now,  how  does 
the  first  Tana  of  the  Mishna,  who  allows  the  tree,  explain  the 
verse,  Their  groves,  etc.  ?  He  understands  this  to  mean  such 
groves  that  were  originally  planted  for  worship,  and  they  are 
forbidden,  but  trees  not  purposely  planted  for  worship  are 
allowed  even  when  worshipped  later.  On  what  does  R.  Jose  b. 
Jehudah  base  this,  his  view,  if  not  on  the  verse  "  Their  groves," 
etc.?  On  the  following  [ibid.  vii.  5]:  "Their  groves  ye  shall 
cut  down,"  whence  it  is  obvious  that  only  what  is  cut  down  is 
forbidden,  but  not  the  roots,  and  this  can  be  only  with  a  tree  wor- 
shipped after  it  has  been  planted.  Now  the  question  arises, 
how  does  the  first  Tana  of  the  Mishna  infer  from  this  last  verse? 
What  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi  said:  As  the  Israelites  came  into 
the  promised  land,  they  were  ordained  to  cut  down  all  the 
groves  they  might  find  before,  and  to  burn  the  trees  after  the 
conquest  of  the  land  had  been  con^pleted.  Wherefore  the  one 
verse  speaks  of  hewing  down,  and  the  other  of  burning,  the 
groves.  As  R.  Joseph  reads  [ibid.  vii.  5]  :  "  Ye  shall  tear  down 
their  altars,"  and  there  is  here  no  call  for  carrying  them  off,  hence 
they  must  be  left  where  they  are;  "  Ye  shall  break  their  pillars," 
and  no  mention  is  made  of  carrying  them  off.  But  how  can 
R.  Joseph  say  that  these  objects  be  left  in  their  places,  when  it 
is  obligatory  to  burn  all  things  belonging  to  the  idol?  R.  Huna 
said :  Prosecute  first  and  then  burn.  Whence  is  this  order  of 
events  known  to  R.  Joseph?  From  [ibid.  xii.  2] :  "  Abed- 
theabdun,"  the  one  meaning  literally  :  to  destroy,  ye  shall  de- 
stroy, hence  it  is  a  reference  to  two  successive  events.  As  to 
the  first  Tana,  he  understands  this  redundancy  as  calculated  to 
indicate  that  both  idol  and  all  its  belongings,  the  subterranean 
included,  be  utterly  annihilated.  While  R.  Jose  b.  Jehudah 
infers  this  radical  destruction  from  [ibid.  xii.  3]  :  "  And  ye  shall 
annihilate  their  names  from  the  same  place. "  The  first  Tana, 
however,  explains  this  as  to  mean:  A  town  or  place  bearing  the 
name  of  an  idol  should  be  renamed.  Here  is  a  Boraitha  to  this 
effect.  R.  Eliezer  says :  The  verse,  Ye  shall  annihilate  their 
name,  etc.,  means  that  while  annihilating  an  idol  it  is  obligatory 
to  search  also  under  the  ground  for  its  belongings.     Said  R. 


54  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Aqiba  to  him  :  This  obligation  is  inferred  from  the  foregoing 
redundancy  of  "  to  destroy  and  you  shall  destroy,"  while  the 
last-mentioned  verse  is  to  indicate  that  a  town  bearing  the  name 
of  an  idol  must  be  renamed.  As  to  the  nature  of  the  new  name, 
it  must  not  be  indifferent,  i.e.,  neither  a  honor  nor  a  disgrace  to 
the  idol,  for  it  reads  [ibid.  7]  :  "  Thou  shalt  utterly  detest  it  and 
thou  shalt  utterly  abhor  it  for  it  is  accursed,"  hence,  the  name 
must  always  be  either  a  detest  or  abhorrence.  E.g.,  if  the  name 
was  originally  Beth  Galia,  i.e.,  House  of  revelation  change  it  to 
Beth  Karia,  i.e.,  House  of  concealing;  Ein  Kol,  i.e.,  The  all- 
seeing  eye,  change  to  Ein  Kotz,  i.e.,  the  thorn-eye. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  the  following  doctrine  in  the 
presence  of  R.  Sheshith :  Mountains  and  hills  worshipped  by 
heathens  are  allowed,  but  the  worshippers  should  be  executed 
by  sword.  Worshipped  shrubs  and  ferns  are  forbidden  and 
their  worshippers  are  to  be  executed.  Said  R.  Sheshith  :  Your 
doctrine  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jose  b.  Jehudah,  who  said :  A 
tree  even  if  not  planted  with  the  purpose  of  worshipping  it,  is 
forbidden  if  worshipped  afterward ;  in  like  manner  are  wor- 
shipped ferns  and  shrubs  prohibited,  though  not  destined  for 
worship  when  planted.  But  what  prompts  R.  Sheshith  to  inter- 
pret the  schoolmens'  proposition  regarding  shrubs  and  ferns  as 
meaning  that  these  were  not  planted  expressly  for  worship? 
Because  as  they  are  treated  of  together,  he  finds  it  more  natural 
to  say :  Just  as  mountains  and  hills  have  not  been  created  for 
worship,  in  like  manner  have  not  the  ferns  and  shrubs  been 
sowed  and  planted  for  worship. 

It  was  taught :  If  ptones  absolved  fortuitously  from  a  moun- 
tain rock  that  was  worshipped,  is  their  use  allowed  or  not?  Two 
opinions,  one  afifirmative,  the  other  negative,  are  held  as  regards 
this  question,  the  contending  parties  being  the  sons  of  R.  'Hyye 
and  R.  Johanan.  However,  the  afifirmative  side  contends  that 
the  stones  are  treated  as  the  mountain  which,  if  worshipped,  is 
allowed  by  reason  of  its  not  being  made  by  man.  The  objection 
that  the  mountain  is  immovable  while  the  stone  is  movable,  may 
be  met  thus :  Worshipped  cattle,  though  movable,  is,  except  for 
the  temple,  allowed,  for  it  does  not  owe  its  origin  to  man,  hence 
the  same  may  apply  to  the  stone  in  question?  If  you  were  to 
dispute  the  comparison,  one  of  the  terms  compared  being  pos- 
sessed of  life  while  the  other  one  not,  it  may  be  answered  that 
the  mountain  is  also  a  lifeless  being,  but  is  allowed;  the  conclu- 
sion returns,  for  a  mountain  is  not  like  cattle  and  vice  versa; 


^       TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  95 

but  their  common  point  is  that  they  are  not  made  by  man, 
hence  the  inference  that  all  objects  not  made  by  man  are 
allowed,  and  the  stones  here  are  of  this  category. 

Asked  Rami  b.  'Hama:  Is  it  allowed  to  use  the  stones  of  a 
worshipped  mountain  for  an  altar,  or  it  is  here  a  case  analogous 
to  that  of  a  worshipped  cattle  which  cannot  be  offered  as  sacri- 
fice, though  it  is  allowed  to  slaughter  it  and  to  eat  the  meat 
thereof?  The  two  are  hardly  analogous:  the  cattle  is  itself  sac- 
lificed,  while  here  the  stones  are  first  blasted  off,  and  besides 
they  are  not  sacrificed  as  such.  Therefore  the  two  cases  cannot 
follow  the  same  rules,  Rabha  decides  the  case  by  an  a  fortiori 
argument — viz:  The  law  permits  to  make  common  use  of  a  pros- 
titute's remuneration,  regardless  of  whether  it  is  of  a  movable 
or  immovable  nature,  but  it  is  prohibited  to  use  even  the  lat- 
ter for  God,  as  it  reads  [Deut.  xxiii.  88]:  "Thou  shalt  not 
bring  unto  the  house  of  the  Lord  either  the  reward  of  a  prosti- 
tute nor  the  exchange  for  a  dog  "  ;  whence  the  conclusion  :  since 
the  movable  worshipped  object  is  forbidden  even  for  common 
use,  the  more  so  will  an  immovable  worshipped  object  be  for- 
bidden for  God.  Said  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua  to  Rabha: 
Since  the  provision  of  the  Law  with  reference  to  the  immovable 
remuneration  of  the  prostitute  is  not  specific,  the  process  of 
your  a  fortiori  argument  may  rather  be  reversed,  i.e.,  we  may 
reason  from  the  rigorous  to  the  lenient  thus:  We  know  that 
worshipped  movable  objects  are  prohibited  even  to  man,  and 
yet  the  immovable  is  allowed  for  the  temple,  because  it  reads : 
"Their  gods  on  the  mountains"  to  exclude  the  mountains 
which  are  not  regarded  as  gods  and  which  are  therefore  allowed; 
consequently,  since  the  prostitute's  reward,  which  is  not  treated 
so  rigorously  as  worshipped  mountains,  is  even  if  movable 
allowed  to  man,  the  more  should  it  be  allowed,  in  its  immovable 
form,  for  the  case  of  the  temple.  This,  my  view,  can  by  no 
means  be  objected  to  from  the  phrase  into  the  house  of  the  fore- 
going verse,  which  you  might  attempt  to  interpret  thus :  If  one 
give  to  the  prostitute  as  her  reward  a  tree  or  a  stone  grave,  these 
objects  are  not  to  be  used  for  the  amelioration  of  the  temple ;  be- 
cause the  said  phrase  has  a  totally  different  meaning,  as  is  shown 
from  the  following  Boraitha :  "  Thou  shalt  not  bring  it  into  the 
house  of  thy  Lord,"  whence  it  follows  that  it  is  allowed  to  pur- 
chase for  the  prostitute's  reward  a  red  cow,  for  such  one  is  not 
brought  into  the  Lord's  house,  but  was  burnt  outside  the  city ;  so 
said  R.  Eliezar,  while  the  sages  held  :  The  phrase  into  the  house 


96  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

teaches  that  it  is  prohibited  to  take  the  said  reward  in  order  to 
buy  for  it  gold  wherewith  to  decorate  the  walls  of  the  temple. 
Rejoined  Rabha :  As  in  this  case  the  reasoning  may  be  pursued 
both  from  the  rigorous  to  the  lenient  and  from  the  lenient  to 
the  rigorous,  we  must  take  account  of  the  established  rule  to 
reason  from  the  rigorous  to  the  lenient,  and  not  vice  versa.  Said 
R.  Papa  to  Rabha :  Ye  cannot  prove  the  foregoing  rule  to  be 
inconvertible,  as  we  find  a  case  where  it  was  proposed  to  reason 
from  the  lenient  to  the  rigorous :  when  the  day  of  preparation 
to  Passover  happens  to  be  on  a  Sabbath  and  there  was  one  who, 
having  become  unclean  through  contact  with  a  dead  body, 
counts  on  this  Sabbath  the  last  day  of  his  uncleanness,  so  that, 
in  order  to  cleanse  him,  the  water  of  ashes  of  the  red  cow  must 
be  sprinkled  upon  him,  an  act  which  is  not  otherwise  allowed  to 
perform  on  Sabbath,  R.  Eliezer  allows  the  performance  of  this 
act  in  this  case  in  order  that  the  unclean  one  receive  his  cleansing, 
as  it  was  his  duty  to  eat  from  the  Easter  lamb.  R.  Aqiba, 
however,  forbids  it.  Thus  you  see  that  while  R.  Eliezer  reasons 
from  the  rigorous  to  the  lenient  (compelling  thereby  the  unclean 
to  eat  from  the  Easter  lamb),  R.  Aqiba  reasons  from  the  lenient 
to  the  rigorous  (freeing  thereby  the  unclean  from  this  duty). 
Hereupon  rejoined  Rabha :  This  case  is  not  apt  to  prove  any- 
thing; the  opinion  of  neither  one  is  correct;  it  was  R.  Eliezer 
himself  who  once  taught  to  R.  Aqiba  that  sprinkling  of  the 
ashes  on  Sabbath  is  forbidden,  but  he  then  forgot  all  about  it, 
so  that  his  disciple,  R.  Aqiba,  attempted  to  gently  remind  him 
in  the  above  controversy;  but  as  he  did  retract  his  view,  R. 
Aqiba  said  to  him  :  All  your  reasoning  cannot  convince  me,  for 
you  told  me  yourself  that  the  sprinkling  on  Sabbath  is  in  this 
case  forbidden. 

MISHNA  VII.:  If  a  house  situated  close  by  a  worship-house 
of  an  idol  crumbles  down,  its  owner  is  prohibited  from  rebuild- 
ing it,  but  he  must  recede  four  ells  into  his  property  and  then 
build ;  but  if  the  house  and  the  said  worship-place  have  the  wall 
in  common  he  should  count  in  a  half  of  the  thickness  of  the 
wall.  Stones,  wood,  and  rubbish  thereof  are  defiling  as  reptiles; 
for  it  reads  [Deut.  vii.  26:]  "  Thou  shalt  detest  it."  R.  Aqiba 
said,  it  is  defiling  like  a  menstruant  woman,  for  it  resds  [Isa. 
XXX.  22]:  "  Thou  wilt  cast  them  away  like  Dovoh  (menstrua- 
tion)," i.e.,  as  a  menstruant  woman  defiles  by  carrying,  so  an 
idol,  too. 

GEMARA :  But  if  the  wall  recedes  four  ells  the  idol  will 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  97 

thereby  become  more  spacious!  Said  R.  'Haninaof  Sura:  This 
space  should  be  made  a  toilet-room,  or  a  hedge  of  thorns  be 
fenced  between  the  idol  and  the  vacant  space. 

MSHNA  VIII.\  There  are  three  kinds  of  houses:  (i)  a 
house  originally  built  for  idol  worship  is  prohibited;  (2)  if  calci- 
mined,  repaired  or  somewhat  renewed  for  idol-worship,  then  it 
is  necessary  to  take  off  it  only  the  new  additions;  (3)  a  house 
into  which  an  idol  was  placed  but  thereafter  removed  from  it, 
is  allowed. 

GEMARA:Rabh  said:  A  house  that  is  worshipped  is  pro- 
hibited ;  whence  it  is  manifest  that  he  shared  the  opinion  that 
a  movable  object  rendered  immovable  (like  a  house  that  is  made 
up  of  movable  materials)  and  then  worshipped,  must  be  treated 
as  if  it  were  still  movable,  and  is  therefore  forbidden.  And 
when  the  Mishna  limits  the  prohibition  only  to  a  house  origin- 
ally built  for  idol-worship,  thus  allowing  by  implication  a  house 
built  without  such  express  purpose,  it  is  because  it  treats  of  a 
house  which  was  immediately  upon  its  completion  destined  for 
idol-worship,  but  has  not  yet  been  worshipped,  and  prohibits  it 
none  the  less;  while  Rabh  forbids  it  after  it  has  been  wor- 
shipped. But  if  such  be  the  case,  the  Mishna  would  have  four 
points  to  treat  of  instead  of  three !  The  answer  is  that  a  house 
originally  destined  for  idol-worship  and  a  house  that  was  already 
worshipped  are  treated  of  alike,  hence  the  Mishna  regards  but 
three  laws. 

MISHNA  IX.'.  There  are  three  kinds  of  stones:  (i)  a 
stone  originally  hewn  for  a  statue  is  prohibited;  (2)  if  calcimined 
and  decorated,  or  otherwise  somewhat  renewed  for  idol-worship, 
then  only  the  new  additions  must  be  taken  away;  (3)  if  one  had 
placed  an  idol  upon  it  but  it  was  afterward  removed,  it  is 
allowed. 

GEMARA:  R.  Ami  said  :  A  calcimined  and  decorated  stone 
is  forbidden  only  when  the  lime  penetrates  it  through  its  crev- 
ices. However,  since  the  provisions  of  the  houses  precede  those 
of  the  stones,  and  a  calcimined  house  is  forbidden  it  would  ap- 
pear natural  to  prohibit  a  stone,  too,  even  when  the  lime  has 
not  penetrated  it.  But  the  fact  is  that  the  house  is  forbidden 
also  because  the  lime  penetrates  its  walls;  otherwise  it  would 
not  be  forbidden.  However,  as  the  Mishna  makes  no  mention 
of  this  circumstance,  we  could  suppose  thus:  When  a  house 
once  calcimined  is  afterward  again  calcimined  and  only  there- 
after used  for  idol-worship,  the  lime  could  not  penetrate  such 


98  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

a  house,  and  yet  it  is  prohibited;  hence,  R.  Ami's  words  must 
be  understood  as  follows :  The  stone  is  allowed  provided  the 
lime  that  penetrated  its  crevices  when  calcimined  has  been  after- 
ward removed.  And  if  not  for  this,  R.  Ami's  statement,  it 
would  have  been  plausible  to  believe  that  such  a  stone,  the  lime 
having  penetrated  it,  must  be  treated  as  one  originally  hewn  for 
a  statue  and  is  therefore  forbidden. 

MISHNA  X.\  There  are  three  kinds  of  groves:  (i)  a  tree 
originally  planted  for  idol-worship  is  prohibited ;  (2)  if  it  was 
clipped  and  trimmed  or  somehow  otherwise  altered  for  the  idol, 
only  the  alterations  must  be  removed;  (3)  a  tree  under  which  an 
idol  was  put,  but  thereafter  destroyed,  is  allowed. 

GEMARA :  Said  the  disciples  of  R.  Janai :  The  clipped  and 
trimmed  tree  spoken  of  in  the  Mishna  is  prohibited  only  when 
branches  were  engrafted  thereon,  but  not  when  it  was  merely 
trimmed.  Now  that  the  Mishna  makes  no  mention  of  this  re- 
striction, the  foregoing  statement  must  be  thus  understood :  If 
branches  are  engrafted  in  such  a  tree  but  then  removed,  it  is 
allowed;  and  if  not  for  this  statement  one  could  entertain  the 
opinion  that  a  tree  in  this  condition  must  be  treated  as  one  orig- 
inally planted  for  idol-worship,  and  is  therefore  forbidden. 

R.  Samuel  said :  When  a  worshipped  tree  sends  forth,  after 
being  worshipped,  new  twigs,  they,  too,  are  prohibited.  R. 
Elazar  objected  thereto  on  the  ground  that  the  Mishna  prohibits 
the  tree  only  when  clipped  and  trimmed  or  somehow  otherwise 
altered,  without  mentioning  aftergrowth.  This  apparent  con- 
tradiction (between  Samuel  and  the  Mishna)  is  thus  explained: 
The  Mishna  gives  the  opinion  of  the  rabbis,  who  allow  a  tree 
not  purposely  planted,  but  afterward  used,  for  worship;  the 
Mishna  accordingly  allows  all  that  grew  on  the  tree  after  its 
being  worshipped;  while  Samuel  shares  the  opinion  of  R.  Jose 
b.  Jehuda,  who  forbids  such  a  tree  unconditionally,  and  there- 
fore he  prohibits  its  aftergrowth,  too.  This  explanation  R.  Ashi 
opposed :  Is  it  at  all  necessary  to  assume  that  Samuel  differs 
with  the  rabbis?  Maybe  they,  too,  hold  that  the  branches  grow- 
ing after  the  worshipping  are  forbidden?  The  point  of  differ- 
ence in  the  respective  opinions  of  the  rabbis  and  R.  Jose  consists 
in  that  the  former  allow  the  roots  of  the  worshipped  tree  on  the 
basis  of  the  verse,  "  Their  groves  ye  shall  cut  down,"  hence, 
only  this  is  forbidden  that  can  be  cut  down,  but  not  the  roots; 
while  R.  Jose  prohibits  also  the  roots  on  the  ground  of  "  Their 
groves  ye  shall  burn  with  fire  "  ;  hence,  wholly  destroy,  root  as 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  99 

well  as  stem.  And  lest  one  say :  The  rabbis  based  their  opinion 
upon  the  verse  referred  to  by  R.  Jose,  who  himself  made  use  of 
the  rabbis'  verse,  whence  it  would  follow  that  he,  thus  allowing 
the  roots,  too,  differs  with  the  rabbis  only  in  respect  of  the 
aftergrowth,  which  he  forbids,  while  they  allow  it,  R.  Ashi 
would  meet  this  objection  as  follows :  This  cannot  be  proven, 
since  R.  Jose  has  never  positively  cited  the  verse  "  Their  groves 
ye  shall  cut  down,"  the  imputation  is  therefore  unfounded; 
hence,  we  may  say  that  it  is  not  his  opinion.  However,  the 
above-quoted  verses  admit  of  an  explanation  in  a  reversed  man- 
ner, notably  :  R.  Jose  prohibits  the  roots  which  the  rabbis  allow, 
but  as  for  the  branches,  newly  grown  after  the  worship,  the 
rabbis,  too,  prohibit  them  ;  hence,  Samuel  is  of  the  same  opinion 
with  the  rabbis.  Also  this  argument  was  objected  to  thus :  If 
such  be  the  case,  according  to  whom  is  the  statement  that  pro- 
hibits the  trimmed  and  clipped  tree,  thus  allowing  by  implica- 
tion the  aftergrowth?  It  is  not  according  to  the  rabbis  prohib- 
ited, as  they  prohibit  it  even  if  the  tree  is  not  trimmed;  nor  is 
it  in  accordance  with  R.  Jose,  the  author,  as  he  prohibits  not 
only  the  aftergrowth,  but  also  the  roots.  (Said  R.  Ashi) :  The 
Mishna  can  indeed  be  explained  in  the  sense  of  either  party;  for 
R.  Jose  forbids  the  roots  of  the  tree  only  when  they  are  not  cut 
and  trimmed;  but  as  soon  as  the  tree  has  been  clipped  and 
trimmed,  it  is  manifest  that  the  tree  was  the  object  of  worship, 
not  in  its  present  shape,  but  only  in  that  appearing  after  the 
trimming;  this  R.  Jose  forbids,  but  the  roots  in  such  case  he, 
too,  declares  allowed.  Now,  in  the  sense  of  the  rabbis,  the 
Mishna  says:  "If  it  was  clipped  and  trimmed,"  and  it  was 
thought  that  this  statement  runs  contrary  to  the  opinion  of  the 
rabbis,  who  prohibit  aftergrowth.  But  the  fact  is  that  the 
Mishna  uses  this  expression,  lest  the  belief  be  entertained  that 
the  clipping  and  trimming  cause  also  the  roots  to  be  forbidden; 
hence  the  expression  of  the  Mishna:  "Only  the  alterations 
must  be  removed,  all  the  rest  is  allowed," 

MISHNA  XL\  What  is  a  grove?  A  tree  with  an  idol  under 
it.  R.  Simeon  said :  Any  tree  that  is  worshipped.  In  Cidon 
there  was  once  a  tree  that  was  worshipped,  and  a  heap  was 
found  under  it.  R.  Simeon  said  :  Search  this  heap.  The  heap 
was  searched  and  an  image  was  found  underneath;  whereupon 
he  decided :  As  they  worship  only  the  image,  we  may  allow  the 
tree. 

GEMARA:  The  Mishna  asks  now  what  is   an  idol-grove; 


loo  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

have  we  not  learned  in  the  preceding  Mishna  that  there  are 
three  sorts  of  idol-groves?  This  is  true ;  however,  in  reference  to 
the  first  two  kinds,  all  agree,  while  with  regard  to  the  last  kind, 
the  other  sages  differ  with  R.  Simeon,  who  upholds  that  it  cannot 
be  at  all  called  an  idol-grove.  What,  then,  is  the  criterion 
whereby  to  distinguish  a  tree  as  an  idol-grove?  Said  Rabh : 
When  priests  sitting  under  a  tree  abstain  from  eating  its  fruit, 
it  must  be  an  idol  tree.  Samuel  said  :  A  date  tree  is  to  be 
regarded  an  idol  when  priests  who  are  picking  its  dates  say: 
"These  dates  are  for  the  house  of  Nezraphi  "  ;  because  they 
prepare  of  these  dates  beer  in  which  they  indulge  in  the  said 
house.  Said  Amemar :  I  have  heard  from  the  elders  of  Pumbe- 
ditha  that  the  Halakha  prevails  with  Samuel. 

MISHNA  XII.'.  It  is  not  allowed  to  sit  down  in  the  shade 
of  such  a  tree;  if,  however,  one  chanced  to  sit  there,  he  is  clean. 
Nor  is  it  allowed  to  pass  under  it,  and  if  one  did  pass  he  is  un- 
clean. If  its  branches  inclined  upon  the  public  grounds  and  one 
passes  under  it,  he  is  clean. 

GEMARA  :  "  If  one  chanced  to  sit  down  he  is  clean.''  Is  not 
this  self-evident,  since  he  did  not  touch  the  tree?  Said  Rabba 
b.  b.  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  This  is  merely  to  state 
that  sitting  in  the  shade  of  the  height  of  the  tree  does  not  de- 
file. Shall  we  assume  that  he  is  allowed  to  sit  down?  Nay;  it 
comes  to  teach  us  that  even  if  he  sat  down  under  the  tree  itself, 
he  is  also  clean. 

"  Nor  is  it  allowed,'"  etc.  The  reason  of  this  uncleanness 
is  this:  It  is  positively  to  be  assumed  that  under  such  a  tree 
there  are  always  remnants  of  idol  sacrifices  which  are,  according 
to  R.  Jehudah  b.  Bethira,  capable  of  defiling  him  who  is  with 
them  under  the  same  shelter.  As  in  the  following  Boraitha,  R. 
Jehuda  b.  Bethira  said :  We  know  that  idol  sacrifices  defile 
whatever  is  with  them  under  the  same  shelter,  from  [Psalm,  cvi. 
28]:  "And  they  joined  themselves  unto  Ba'al  Pe'or,  and  ate 
the  sacrifices  of  the  dead."  Here  the  sacrifice  to  the  idol  is 
compared  to  that  of  the  dead ;  hence,  as  latter  is  defiling,  so  is 
former. 

"  If  its  branches,''  etc.  The  schoolmen  propounded  the  fol- 
lowing question :  How  should  this  expression  be  understood,  as 
meaning  he  already  passed,  or  that  all  going  is  allowed?  Said 
R.  Iz'hak  b.  Elazar  in  the  name  of  'Hiskia:  The  latter  is  in- 
tended by  the  Mishna,  while  R.  Johanan  thinks  the  former 
meaning  is  the  proper  one.     These  two  views  may,  however,  be 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  loi 

reconciled  thus :  R.  Iz'hak  has  in  view  the  case  where  there  is  no 
other  road,  hence,  necessity  allows  all  going  under  the  tree,  while 
R.  Johanan  has  in  view  the  case  where  there  was  yet  another  one. 

In  the  place  where  R.  Sheshith  lived  there  was  such  a  tree, 
and  whenever  he  had  to  pass  by  it  he,  being  blind,  said  to  his 
guide  :  Pass  me  by  as  quickly  as  possible.  (Says  the  Gemara) : 
If  there  was  yet  another  road  he  was  not  allowed  there,  and  if 
not,  he  had  the  right  to  pass  by  here.  What  was,  then,  the 
speeding  by  necessary?  The  answer  is  that  there  was  but  this 
only  road,  and  R.  Sheshith,  who  was  a  prominent  scholar, 
wanted  (on  his  own  account)  to  pass  it  as  quickly  as  he  could. 

MISHNA  XIIL:  Under  such  a  tree  is  allowed  to  sow  herbs 
in  the  winter,  but  not  in  summer.  Lettuce  is  not  allowed  to 
sow  in  either  winter  or  summen  R.  Jose  said :  Even  herbs 
must  not  be  sowed  in  winter  either,  for  their  leaves,  when  falling 
down,  would  turn  dung  for  the  tree. 

GEMARA:  The  statement  of  R.  Jose  makes  it  manifest 
that  he  is  of  the  opinion  that  two  causes  of  which  one  is  al- 
lowed and  the  other  one  prohibited  do,  when  working  together, 
bring  about  a  forbidden  effect.  (In  the  case  before  us  there  are 
two  causes  fostering  the  growth  of  the  herbs  :  the  dung  and  the 
soil;  former  is  forbidden,  latter  allowed;  hence,  he  prohibits  the 
effect.)  On  the  other  hand,  the  rabbis  who  do  not  share  this 
opinion  allow  the  herbs.  However,  in  another  place  (iv.  Mishna 
of  this  chap.)  we  find  these  two  contending  parties  interchange 
their  respective  views.  It  is  true,  the  apparently  contradictory 
tenets  of  R.  Jose  may  be  reconciled  thus  :  He  allows  where  the 
idols  were  ground  down,  as  the  efTect  here  cannot  even  become 
dung,  but  in  the  present  case  the  falling  leaves  surely  turn  into 
dung,  hence  his  prohibition.  But  how  should  we  explain  the 
rabbis'  contradiction?  It  may  be  explained  as  R.  Mari  b.  R. 
Kahana  said  :  "  In  proportion  as  the  hide  rises  in  price,  one  loses 
on  the  meat."  In  like  manner  it  can  be  said  here  of  the  herbs: 
What  the  dung  promotes,  the  shade  of  the  tree  hinders;  hence, 
as  there  is  no  use  of  the  leaves,  the  rabbis  allow.  Said  R. 
Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  The  Halakha  prevails  with 
R.  Jose. 

Once  a  garden  was  ameliorated  with  the  dung  of  an  idol; 
R.  Amram  let  interrogate  R.  Joseph  as  to  how  one  should 
behave  with  regard  to  the  fruit  of  this  garden,  and  the  answer 
was:  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  the  Halakha 
prevails  with  R.  Jose. 


I02  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

MISHNA  XIV.:  To  derive  any  benefit  of  wood  obtained 
from  an  idol-grove  is  prohibited.  The  stove  heated  therewith 
must  be  destroyed  if  new  yet,  but  if  old  already,  it  must  be 
cooled  off.  Bread  baked  therewith  is  prohibited  for  any  benefit ; 
if  it  was  mingled  with  other  bread,  they  are  all  forbidden.  R. 
Eliezar  says :  The  worth  of  its  benefit  should  be  cast  into  the 
salt  lake.  However,  the  rabbis  responded  :  There  is  no  redemp- 
tion in  case  of  idol-worship.  The  same  is  the  case  with  a  loom 
made  of  this  wood  and  with  the  garment  wrought  therewith. 
If  such  a  garment  was  mixed  up  with  other  garments  and  these 
again  with  others,  the  benefit  of  them  all  is  forbidden.  R. 
Eliezar,  however,  said :  Cast  their  worth  into  the  salt  lake, 
and  he  was  answered :  There  is  no  redemption  from  idol- 
worship. 

GEMARA :  The  Mishna  must  lay  down  both  the  cases  of 
the  benefit  of  wood,  for  bread-baking  and  for  garment-making; 
for  if  the  former  case  alone  were  stated,  there  would  be  reason 
to  think  that  R.  Eliezar  allows  the  use  of  the  bread  only  when 
its  worth  has  been  cast  into  the  sea,  for  as  soon  as  the  bread 
is  entered  in  the  oven,  the  prohibited  object,  the  wood,  is, 
properly  speaking,  no  more,  having  been  consumed  by  the  fire; 
while  in  the  case  of  a  garment  made  with  the  aid  of  such  wood, 
his  prohibition  is  absolute,  since  the  wood  is  all  the  time  in  ex- 
istence. On  the  other  hand,  if  the  Mishna  treated  only  the 
garment-making,  there  might  rise  the  belief  that  the  garment  is 
forbidden  by  reason  of  the  perennial  existence  of  its  instru- 
ment, while  bread,  where  the  wood  was  consumed  by  the  fire, 
the  rabbis  agree  with  him.  Hence,  the  establishment  of  both 
the  cases.  Said  R.  'Hisda:  I  was  told  by  Abba  b.  R.  'Hisda 
that  Siera  said,  the  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Eliezar.  Said  R. 
Ada  b.  Ahaba :  R.  Eliezar,  notwithstanding  this  his  doctrine, 
prohibits  the  use  of  the  wine  in  all  the  barrels  if  one  cask  of 
forbidden  wine  was  mingled  among  them.  R.  'Hisda,  however, 
asserts  that  this  wine,  too,  is  allowed  by  R.  Eliezar,  provided  its 
worth  has  been  cast  into  the  sea.  It  once  happened  that  a  cask 
of  forbidden  wine  was  mixed  among  other  casks  of  allowed  wine; 
whereupon  R.  'Hisda  was  interrogated  as  to  how  to  behave  in 
this  case,  and  his  answer  was  to  cast  four  zuz  into  the  river  and 
then  we  will  allow  the  wine. 

MISHNA  XV. \  How  is  the  idol-worship  of  a  tree  profaned? 
If  the  heathen  cuts  down  from  it  dry  twigs  or  fresh  branches, 
a  staff  or  a  rod,  or  even  if  he  takes  from  it  only  a  leaf,  it  is  pro- 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  103 

faned.     If,  however,  all  this  be  done  in  the  interest  of  the  tree, 
it  remains  forbidden;  and  if  not  in  its  interest,  it  is  allowed. 

GEMARA:  The  question  as  to  how  to  behave  toward  the 
dry  twigs  and  other  pieces  cut  off  the  tree  is  discussed  by  R. 
Huna  and  R.  Hyya  b.  Rabh.  The  one  allows  and  the  other 
forbids  the  use  of  these  objects.  This  positive  view  is  borne 
out  also  in  the  following  Boraitha  :  When  a  heathen  trims  his 
idol,  the  question  arises,  does  he  do  it  in  order  to  use  the  thus 
obtained  wood,  or  in  order  to  adorn  the  idol?  If  former  be  the 
case,  both  the  wood  cut  down  and  the  idol  itself  are  allowed, 
while  in  the  latter  case  the  wood  is  allowed  but  not  the  idol. 
If,  however,  the  trimming  was  done  by  an  Israelite,  all  is  for- 
bidden, irrespective  of  the  aim  in  view,  because  the  idol  of  an 
Israelite  can  never  be  profaned.  It  was  taught :  If  an  idol 
broke  down  by  itself,  what  is  to  be  done?  Rabh  said  :  Each  and 
every  piece  of  it  must  be  singly  and  severally  profaned  before 
its  use  is  allowed,  while  Samuel  maintains  that  an  idol  can  be 
profaned  only  in  its  ordinary  shape.  But  how  is  this  to  be 
understood ;  does  not  the  contrary  seem  to  be  the  case?  Samuel 
means  to  say,  then,  that  only  an  idol  that  is  in  its  ordinary 
shape  needs  be  profaned.  The  point  of  difference,  however, 
here  is  concerning  an  idol  not  broken  by  itself  but  one  that  is 
made  of  small  pieces,  such  that  even  a  layman  could  put  together 
or  take  apart.  It  is  of  such  an  idol  that  Rabh  says  it  is  not  pro- 
faned when  out  of  its  joints,  because  even  a  layman  can  restore 
it,  while  according  to  Samuel  it  is  not  considered  as  an  idol  as 
soon  as  it  loses  its  shape. 


CHAPTER   IV. 

CONCERNING  OBJECTS  USED  FOR  IDOLS. — THE  MANNER  IN  WHICH  AN 
IDOL  IS  PROFANED  SO  AS  TO  BE  ALLOWED  FOR  USE. — THE  DIS- 
CUSSIONS BETWEEN  THE  ELDERS  OF  ROME  ON  THE  ONE  HAND 
AND  R.  LAMALIEL,  THE  PRINCE,  ON  THE  OTHER. — HOW  TO 
PREPARE  WINE  IN  THE  POSSESSION  OF  A  HEATHEN  FOR 
ISRAELITES. 

MISHNA/.:  R.  Ismael  says  :  Three  stones  near  one  another 
and  beside  the  Merkules  are  prohibited ;  two  stones  in  this  posi- 
tion are  allowed.  The  sages,  however,  said  :  Only  the  stones 
that  are  close  by  it  are  prohibited,  but  those  that  do  not  appear 
to  be  so  are  allowed. 

GEMARA  :  The  opinion  of  the  sages  is  easily  explained,  as 
they  hold  that  the  heathens  worship  also  the  fragments  of  their 
idols,  accordingly  they  prohibit  only  the  stones  that  are  per- 
ceptibly near  the  idol.  But  R.  Ismael's  opinion  presents  some 
difficulty — viz:  If  he  upholds  the  view  that  pieces  are  also  wor- 
shipped, he  should  forbid  also  two  stones;  on  the  other  hand, 
if  he  believes  that  the  heathens  do  not  worship  broken  idols,  he 
should  consistently  allow  also  three  stones  near  the  Merkules! 
Said  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Joseph  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  The 
limit  of  proximity  required  in  the  Mishna  is  set  down  at  four 
ells  ;  now,  R.  Ismael  believes  that  the  heathen  might  make  of  the 
three  stones  a  small  Merkules  beside  the  big  one,  but  not  of  two 
stones;  while  the  sages  who  do  not  entertain  this  belief  merely 
regard  these  stones  as  fragments  of  the  Merkules,  hence  they 
forbid  only  those  that  are  visibly  belonging  to  it  irrespective  of 
their  number. 

It  once  happened  that  the  palace  of  King  Janai  was  de- 
stroyed; thereupon  came  heathens  and  erected  therein  a  Mer- 
kules; later  on  others  came  who  did  not  worship  the  Merkules, 
took  the  stones  and  paved  a  street  therewith.  Some  of  the 
sages  abstained  then  from  treading  upon  these  stones,  while 
others  were  passing  there;  hereupon  said  R.  Johanan  :  The  son 
of  the  saints  treads  on    them,   should   we   abstain  therefrom? 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  105 

Who  was  this  son?  R.  Menahem  b.  Simai,  so  called  because 
he  would  refrain  from  even  looking  upon  the  face  of  a  coin. 
But  why,  this  notwithstanding,  were  some  shunning  that 
street?  Because  they  guided  themselves  by  the  opinion  of  R. 
Gidel,  who  said  in  the  name  of  R.  'Hyya  b.  Joseph,  quoting 
Rabh  :  Though  the  idol  is  capable  of  being  profaned,  yet  the 
idol-sacrifice  is  not,  and  this  admits  of  proof  from  here :  "  They 
clung  to  the  Baal  Peor  and  ate  sacrifices  of  the  dead  idols," 
where  a  comparison  is  drawn  between  an  idol-sacrifice  and  a 
corpse,  to  indicate  that  just  as  the  latter  remains  but  a  corpse, 
so  does  the  sacrifice  remain  unalterably  an  idol-sacrifice.  In 
accordance  with  this,  those  sages  who  regarded  these  stones  as 
idol-sacrifices,  refrained  from  treading  thereon,  while  the  others 
held  that  stones  cannot  be  regarded  as  sacrifices,  since  only 
those  objects  are  regarded  as  sacrifices  that  were  actually  offered 
in  the  temple,  which  has  never  been  the  case  with  stones. 

R.  Joseph  b.  Aba  narrated  :  Once  Rabba  b.  Jeremiah,  when 
visiting  us  propounded  the  following  Boraitha :  If  a  heathen 
takes  stones  from  a  Merkules  and  paves  therewith  the  street, 
the  Israelites  are  allowed  to  walk  thereon ;  if,  however,  an 
Israelite  did  it,  they  are  prohibited  therefrom.  And  there  is 
no  artisan  that  could  set  right  this  Boraitha.  (The  difficulty  is 
explained  further  on.)  Said  R.  Sheshith :  I,  though  not  an 
artisan,  will  nevertheless  attempt  to  explain  it :  The  intricacy 
here  implied  is  what  R.  Gidel  said  concerning  the  incapacity  of 
an  idol-sacrifice  to  be  profaned,  and  is  removed  by  reminding 
what  has  been  shown  above — viz:  that  these  stones  cannot  be 
considered  sacrifices. 

R.  Na'hman  says  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu,  quoting 
Rabh  :  If  the  worship  of  an  idol  consists  in  the  rapping  before 
it  with  a  cane,  and  one  breaks  a  cane  before  the  idol  in  its  honor, 
he  is  liable;  furthermore,  if  it  was  yet  a  new  idol  never  before 
worshipped,  this  act  is  considered  a  worship  and  renders  the 
idol  forbidden  as  well  as  the  broken  stick  which  is  regarded  a 
sacrifice.  If,  however,  one  threw  a  stick  before  an  idol  the  wor- 
ship of  which  consists  in  the  throwing  of  sticks,  the  stick  is  not 
forbidden,  but  the  thrower  is  liable.  Thereupon  said  Rabha  to 
R.  Na'hman  :  The  stick  broken  before  the  idol  resembles  the 
slaughtering  in  the  temple,  and  is  therefore  forbidden ;  why, 
then,  should  not  the  cane  thrown  before  the  idol  resemble  the 
blood  sprinkling  in  the  temple,  and  be  also  forbidden?  And  he 
answered:    Nay;  the  blood   separates  into  drops  through  the 


io6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

sprinkling,  while  the  stick,  even  when  thrown,  remains  whole. 
If  such  be  the  case,  why  should,  then,  rejoined  Rabha,  stones 
be  prohibited  when  thrown  before  the  Merkules?  Answered  R. 
Na'hman  :  I  myself,  knowing  no  answer  to  this,  inquired  of 
Rabba  b.  Abuhu,  who,  likewise  ignorant  of  it,  asked  R.  'Hyya 
b.  Rabh,  who  addressed  this  question  to  his  father,  Rabh,  and 
he  said  :  These  stones  are  forbidden  because  when  thrown  before 
the  Merkules  they  enlarge  it,  thereby  themselves  becoming  idols. 
Said  Rabha :  This  explanation  is  plausible  if  we  admit  that  the 
idol  is  prohibited  immediately  upon  its  completion,  i.e.,  before 
it  was  worshipped;  but,  as  we  know,  there  is  yet  the  other 
opinion  prohibiting  it  only  after  it  was  worshipped.  How,  then, 
according  to  this  latter  view,  can  the  stone  be  forbidden?  Said 
R.  Na'hman :  A  stone  thrown  to  Markules  is,  while  being 
thrown,  considered  a  sacrifice,  and,  upon  falling  in  heap  with 
the  other  stones,  an  idol;  wherefor  it  renders  prohibited  also 
the  stones  lying  there  from  before,  for  they  were  worshipped  by 
its  being  thrown,  and  the  stone  itself  is  forbidden  as  soon  as 
another  was  cast  upon  it  in  token  of  honor  and  worship.  Re- 
joined Rabha :  According  to  this  explanation,  the  last  stone 
would  be  allowed,  inasmuch  as  it  has  not  yet  been  worshipped. 
Said  R.  Na'hman  :  When  you  are  only  able  to  recognize  the 
last  one,  go  freely  and  take  it.  R.  Asha,  however,  explained 
the  matter  thus :  Each  stone,  by  the  fact  of  being  thrown,  is 
(as  it  is  not  worshipped  otherwise)  itself  a  sacrifice,  and  in  the 
same  time  an  idol  for  the  other  stone  following;  hence  these 
stones  are  all  forbidden. 

R.  Abuhu  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  That  one  is  not 
liable  for  slaughtering  a  blemished  animal  to  an  idol  is  deduced 
hence  [Exod.  xx.  20]  :  "  Whoever  offers  to  the  gods  beside  the 
Lord  be  excommunicated,"  whence  it  follows  that  liability 
attaches  only  to  such  objects  as  are  fit  to  be  sacrificed  to  the 
Lord.  Said  Rabha:  What  kind  of  blemish  has  R.  Abuhu  in 
view?  Hardly  that  of  the  eyebrows,  since  an  animal  with  such 
a  defect  was  accepted  by  the  descendants  of  Noah  for  a  sacrifice 
in  the  temple  of  the  Lord ;  hence  he  has  in  view  such  animals 
that  lack  a  limb,  and  agrees  in  this  respect  with  R.  Eliezar,  who 
said  :  Whence  do  we  know  that  the  desendants  of  Noah  are 
prohibited  from  offering  an  animal  that  lacks  one  of  its  limbs? 
From  [Gen.  vi.  19]:  "  And  of  every  living  thing,  of  all  flesh,  too," 
etc.  Living  thing  means  such  living  being  that  wants  none  of 
its  limbs,   for  from  such  aniinals  sacrifices  shall  be  offered  in 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  107 

times  to  come.  Thereto  was  objected:  The  expression  "liv- 
ing" means  to  exclude  but  such  animals  that  have  a  defect 
wherewith  they  cannot  survive  a  full  year.  (Rejoined  R. 
Eliezar) :  Such  have  already  been  excluded  implicitly  by  the 
expression  [ibid.  vii.  3]  :  "  To  keep  seed  alive  upon  the  face  of 
all  the  earth,"  since  they  can  neither  bear  nor  produce  offspring. 
But,  was  retorted,  how  is  it  according  to  those  who  do  not  share 
this  opinion  as  to  the  reproductive  incapacity?  To  them  the 
word,  ihtoch,  with  thee,  sufficiently  indicates  that  Noah  was  or- 
dered to  take  only  animals  resembling  him  in  organization, 
and,  i.e.,  without  defects.  And  for  aught  we  know,  Noah  may 
have  been  himself  defective?  By  no  means;  the  Scripture  calls 
him  iamim,  perfect ;  and  that  this  attribute  does  not  refer  to  his 
conduct  is  shown  by  the  fact  that  he  is  called  also  zadik,  upright. 
But  maybe  that  he  was  perfect  in  conduct  and  upright  in  his 
dealings?  Nay;  this  is  no  convincing  argument  that  Noah  may 
have  been  defective,  for,  had  he  been  such,  he,  following  the 
order,  would  have  surely  taken  in  only  animals  resembling  him. 
But  now  that  you  make  use  of  the  ihtoch  to  prove  that  Noah's 
animals  were  of  necessity  normal,  what  is  the  other  phrase,  To 
keep  seed,  etc.,  good  for?  This  was  meant  to  remind  Noah 
that  the  animals  are  not  for  keeping  him  company,  but  for  re- 
producing their  species;  hence  he  must  not  take  in  old  or  cas- 
trated ones. 

R.  Elazar  said  :  If  one  slaughter  an  animal  to  Markules,  he 
is  liable,  notwithstanding  that  Markules  is  worshipped  by  stone- 
throwing;  for  it  reads  [Lev.  xvii.  T]:  "  They  shall  offer  no  more 
their  sacrifices  unto  evil  spirits,  after  which  they  have  gone 
astray,"  hence  no  blood  sacrifices  even  to  such  "  evil  spirits  " 
that  are  worshipped  otherwise;  as  the  usual  worship  is  prohib- 
ited already  in  [Deut.  xii.  30],  "  How  did  these  nations  serve 
their  gods?  even  so  will  I  do  likewise." 

MISHNA  //. :  Money,  garments,  utensils  found  on  the  head 
of  an  idol  are  allowed ;  vine  with  grapes  on,  wreaths  of  corn  ears, 
wine,  oil,  fine  flour,  and  whatever  is  offered  upon  the  altar,  is 
prohibited. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  this  deduced?  said  R.  Hyya  b. 
Joseph  in  the  name  of  R.  Oshia  :  from  [Deut.  xxix.  16]  :  "And 
you  saw  their  abominations,  and  their  idols  of  wood  and  stone,  sil- 
ver and  gold  which  they  had  with  them  "  ;  and  again  [ibid.  vii. 
25]  :  "  Thou  shalt  not  covet  the  silver  or  gold  that  is  on  them." 
From  the  two  wordings,  "  with  them  "  and  "  on  them  "  we  con- 


io8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

elude  that  whatever  is  found  with  or  on  the  idol  without  being  an 
ornament  thereof  is  allowed,  but  is  not,  if  an  ornament.  But 
why  not  draw  the  conclusion  that,  just  as  all  that  is  with  the 
idol  is  forbidden,  so  also  is  all  that  is  on  it,  regardless  of  its 
being  an  ornament  or  not?  If  such  be  the  case,  the  "  on  them  " 
would  be  superfluous.  But  why  does  the  Mishna  allow  money 
which  is  then,  doubtless,  for  decorating  purposes?  Said  the 
disciples  of  R.  Janai :  It  is  allowed  only  when  it  is  hung  in  a 
sack  round  the  neck  of  the  idol,  which  makes  the  latter  look 
like  a  carrier,  and  this  is  surely  no  ornament ;  furthermore,  as 
to  garments,  they  are  allowed  only  when  they  lie  folded  on  the 
head  of  the  idol,  which  makes  it  look  like  a  washwoman.  Re- 
garding utensils,  R.  Papa  said  :  It  means  here  that  they  lie  on 
the  head  so  as  to  disfigure  the  idol.  R.  Assi  b.  Hyya  said  :  All 
objects  within  the  curtain  of  the  idol  are  prohibited,  even  water 
and  salt ;  while  outside  the  curtain  only  decorating  objects  are 
forbidden. 

MISHNA  ///.:  The  use  of  a  garden  or  bathing-place  belong- 
ing to  an  idol  is  allowed  when  it  is  gratis,  but  is  forbidden  when 
it  is  for  remuneration.  If  they  belong  to  both  the  idol  and 
some  people,  their  use  is  allowed  unconditionally,  whether  gratis 
or  for  pay.  The  idol  of  a  heathen  is  forbidden  from  the  very 
beginning,  while  that  of  an  Israelite  is  not  forbidden  until  after 
it  has  been  actually  worshipped. 

GEMARA :  "  Their  use  is  allowed  unconditionally,*'  etc. 
Said  Abayi :  "  For  pay"  means  that  the  idol- worshipper  and 
not  the  priest  is  remunerated,  while  "  gratis  "  means  that  neither 
is  getting  anything. 

"  The  idol  of  a  heathen  is  forbidden  from  the  very  beginning'' 
etc.  The  Mishna  expresses  here  the  opinion  of  R.  Aqiba  with- 
out, however,  mentioning  his  name.  For  we  have  learned,  it 
reads  [Deut.  xii.  2]:  "Ye  shall  utterly  destroy  all  the  places 
whereon  the  nations  you  are  about  to  drive  out,"  etc.;  this 
verse  has  reference  to  all  the  utensils  employed  by  the  heathens 
in  their  worship.  If  this  be  so,  one  could  conclude  that  even 
such  vessels  are  forbidden  that  were  begun  for  idol-worship, 
but  are  not  yet  finished,  or  such  that  though  finished,  have  not 
as  yet  been  brought  into  the  temple  of  the  idol ;  wherefore  it  says 
in  the  quoted  verse  "  in  their  worship,"  whence  it  follows  that 
only  what  was  employed  at  the  worship  is  forbidden.  It  is  in 
view  of  this  that  the  sages  prohibit  the  idol  of  a  heathen  not 
until  after  it  was  worshipped,  and  that  of  an  Israelite  from  the 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  109 

very  beginning.  So  said  R.  Ismael ;  R.  Aqiba,  however,  said 
the  very  contrary  of  what  the  sages  maintain — viz:  an  idol  of 
a  heathen  is  prohibited  as  soon  as  prepared,  while  that  of  an 
Israelite  only  when  already  worshipped. 

The  master  said  :  The  verse  [Deut.  xii.  2]  has  reference  only 
to  utensils  employed  by  the  heathens  in  their  worship.  But 
does  the  verse  speak  of  utensils  when  it  speaks  of  places? 
The  answer  is  this :  The  verse  in  question  cannot  possibly  refer 
to  the  places,  as  it  is  stated  right  after:  "  To  their  gods  on  the 
mountains,"  whence  it  was  concluded  that  the  gods  but  not  the 
mountains  are  forbidden ;  consequently,  neither  can  here  be 
meant  the  places,  hence  it  is  the  objects  in  the  places  that  are 
meant,  and  such  objects  can  be  no  other  than  the  utensils  in 
question.  But  further  above  it  is  said  :  The  sages  prohibit  the 
idol  of  a  heathen  not  until  after  it  was  worshipped.  How  could 
the  sages  commit  themselves  to  such  an  inference  from  a  verse 
where  the  vessels,  and  not  at  all  the  idol,  are  concerned?  The 
answer  is  that  the  verse  says,  "  All  places  where  the  nations 
worshipped  their  gods."  Now,  as  previously  explained,  "  the 
places  "  mean  the  vessels  on  them,  hence,  just  as  the  vessels  are 
not  prohibited  until  after  they  were  employed  in  idol  worship, 
so  also  the  idols  are  forbidden  only  after  they  were  worshipped. 
On  the  other  hand,  R.  Aqiba,  who  cjoes  not  compare  the  vessels 
to  the  idols,  may  say  that  the  particle  eth  divides  the  verse 
into  two  distinct  parts.  As  to  R.  Ismael,  he  explains  his  posi- 
tion thus :  As  the  idol  of  a  heathen  is  forbidden  only  after  its 
being  worshipped,  it  is  common  sense  that  that  of  an  Israelite 
should  be  forbidden  from  the  very  beginning;  otherwise  what 
difference  would  there  be  between  the  two?  Surely  not  that 
the  idol  of  an  Israelite  be  altogether  allowed,  as  it  reads  [Deut. 
xxvii.  15]  :  "  Cursed  be  the  man  who  maketh  a  carved  or  molten 
image,"  etc.  ;  hence  the  curse  is  imposed  upon  the  making  of  an 
idol.  Well  and  good,  but  this  verse  does  not  prove  as  yet  that 
the  use  of  the  idol  is  forbidden !  It  was  answered  that  it  is  fur- 
ther expressly  stated  :  "The  idol  is  detestable  to  the  Lord," 
hence,  prohibited.  Now,  how  does  R.  Aqiba  assert  his  posi- 
tion? Said  Ula,  from  [ibid.  vii.  25J :  "The  graven  images  of 
their  gods  ye  shall  burn  with  fire,"  etc.,  which  "  images  "  surely 
means  the  likeness  of  the  idol  as  soon  as  it  is  graved.  As  to  R. 
Ismael,  he  understands  this  verse  in  the  sense  given  to  it  by 
R.  Joseph,  who  said  :  Whence  do  we  know  that  a  heathen  may 
profane  his  idol?      From  "The  images  of  their  gods,"   etc., 


no  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

which  means  that  the  idol  is  prohibited  so  long  as  the  heathen 
treats  it  as  a  god,  but  becomes  allowed  as  soon  as  he  no  longer 
treats  it  so,  i.e.y  breaks  up  some  piece  thereof.  On  the  other 
hand,  R.  Aqiba  proves  that  the  heathen  can  profane  the  idol 
from  the  same  source  used  by  Samuel — viz.  [ibid.]  :  "  Thou  shalt 
not  covet  the  silver  or  gold  that  is  on  them,"  and  ends,  "  Thou 
shouldst  take  it  unto  thyself";  this  apparent  contradiction  he 
explains  thus :  Do  not  covet  before  the  idol  is  profaned,  but 
after  its  profanation  you  may  take  it.  But  again,  whence  does 
R.  Aqiba  know  that  the  idol  of  an  Israelite  is  not  prohibited 
until  after  worship?  Said  R.  Jehudah,  it  reads  [ibid,  xxvii.  15]  ; 
"  Cursed  be  it,  and  putteth  it  in  a  secret  place."  This  phrase, 
"  in  secret  place,"  means,  pours  out  before  the  idol  his  secret 
thoughts;  hence,  R.  Aqiba  concludes  that  it  is  forbidden  only 
after  such  worship.  R.  Ismael,  on  the  other  hand,  explains  this 
phrase  in  the  sense  of  R.  Iz'hak,  who  says :  This  phrase  teaches 
us  that  the  idol,  of  an  Israelite  must  be  wholly  destroyed  and 
put  in  a  sercet  place;  while  R.  Aqiba  endeavors  to  prove 
this  obligation  by  what  R.  'Hisda  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh 
[Deut.  xvi.  21]  :  "  Thou  shalt  not  plant  unto  thyself  a  grove, 
any  tree  near  the  altar  of  thy  Lord,"  signifies  that  just  as  an 
altar  that  becomes  out  of  use  must  be  removed  out  of  sight  by 
being  buried  under  ground,  so  also  the  groves  (that  are  spoken 
of  here  in  connection  with  the  altar)  must  be  put  in  secrecy. 
R.  Ismael,  however,  infers  from  this  verse  what  is  said  by  Resh 
Lakish  (Sanhedrin,  p.  15,  par.  Resh  Lakish,  to  the  end). 

R.  Hamnuna  questioned  :  What  is  the  law  concerning  a  ves- 
sel that,  after  a  piece  had  been  broken  off  it,  was  again  made 
fit  for  use  and  then  dedicated  to  idol-worship?  Before  proceed- 
ing to  answer  this  question,  one  must  know  to  whose  idol  this 
vessel  was  devoted ;  if  to  that  of  a  heathen,  both  R.  Ismael  and 
R.  Aqiba  consider  such  vessels  as  serving  vessels,  which  are  for- 
bidden not  until  after  they  have  actually  been  used  in  the  wor- 
ship. Thus,  the  question  must  refer  to  the  idol  of  an  Israelite, 
and,  since  R.  Aqiba,  who  prohibits  the  idol  of  an  Israelite  only 
after  worship,  will  doubtless  do  the  same  as  regards  the  serving 
vessel  in  question,  it  can  be  treated  only  in  the  light  of  R. 
Ismael's  opinion,  so  that  it  is  necessary  to  know  in  the  first 
place  whether  such  serving  vessels  are  subject  to  the  same  rules 
as  the  vessels  of  a  heathen's  idol  are.  If  yes,  they  are  forbidden 
after  the  use;  but  if  they  follow  the  rules  of  an  Israelite's  idol, 
they  are  forbidden   from   the  very  beginning.     But  why  does 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  m 

R.  Hamnuna  ask  concerning  a  repaired  and  not  a  newly-made 
vessel  ?  The  answer  is  that  his  question  has,  in  fact,  reference 
to  the  problem  of  old  defilement.  As  the  following  Mishna 
(Kelim,  xi.  i) :  "Of  metallic  vessels  the  flat  and  hollowed  ones 
are  subject  to  defilement;  if,  however,  they  were  defiled  and 
broke  they  become  clean.  But  if  they  were  again  made  into 
vessels,  the  old  defilement  returns."  Now,  R.  Hamnuna  was 
in  doubt  as  to  whether  this  Mishna  is  concerned  with  biblical 
defilements  only,  or  also  with  rabbinical  defilements.  But  if  so, 
why  does  not  R.  Hamnuna  put  his  question  regarding  rabbini- 
cal defilements  in  general?  His  desire  was  that  his  question, 
embrace  also  the  other  point — viz  :  Does  a  rabbinical  defilement 
return  ?  And  should  you  decide  that  it  does  not,  then  the 
question  arises:  How  is  the  case  with  idolatry?  Shall  we 
assume  that,  because  of  the  rigorousness  of  idolatry,  a  rabbini- 
cal be  equivalent  to  a  biblical  or  not?  This  question  remains 
undecided. 

R.  Johanan  asked  R.  Janai :  I  should  like  to  know  whether 
or  no  food  ofTered  to  an  idol,  if  profaned,  loses  thereby  its  defile- 
ment (which  lay  therein  by  reason  of  its  being  of  the  idol)  ?  But 
why  does  he  ask  about  food  and  not  about  vessels  ?  Because 
he  knew  that  the  remedy  for  devoted  vessels  is  a  legal  bath, 
which  abolishes  also  the  defilement.  Furthermore,  R.  Johanan 
does  not  ask  whether  or  no  an  idolized  food,  if  worshipped  and 
then  profaned,  still  defiles;  because  he  knows  that  a  profaned 
idol  is  no  longer  forbidden,  hence,  its  defilement  is  also  abol- 
ished. But  he  put  up  the  foregoing  question  merely  because 
R.  Gidel  said  somewhere  above  that  all  objects  sacrificed  to 
idols  can  never  be  profaned,  so  he  wants  to  know  now  whether 
R.  Gidel's  theory  applies  to  the  prohibition  which  is  biblical, 
but  not  to  the  defilement  which  is  rabbinical,  or  to  both?  Also 
this  question  remains  undecided. 

R.  Jose  b.  Saul  asked  Rabbi  whether  the  vessels  used  (in  the 
temple  of  Egypt)  in  the  house  of  Chania,  are  allowed  for  use 
also  in  the  temple  of  Jerusalem  ?  This  question  suggests  that 
R.  Jose  shared  the  opinion  of  those  who  say :  The  temple  of 
Egypt  was  not  considered  an  idol  temple.  It  was,  however, 
taught  that  the  priests  who  served  in  the  Chania  temple  are  not 
allowed  to  serve  in  that  of  Jerusalem,  the  less  so  are  those  who 
served  at  idol-worships.  He  thus  wanted  to  know  whether  the 
vessels  follow  the  same  rules  as  the  priests;  or  since  the  priests 
are  endowed  with  intelligence  they  were  fined.     But  the  vessels 


ti2  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

destitute  of  intelligence  should  not  be  fined,  or  there  is  no  dif- 
ference ?  Hereupon  said  Rabbi:  Yea;  they  are  prohibited  and 
there  is  a  verse  from  Scripture  to  corroborate  this,  but  I  forgot 
it.  R.  Jose  thus  objected,  it  reads  [II  Chron.  xxix.  19]  :  "  All 
the  vessels  which  King  Achez  had  cast  aside  .  .  .  have  we  put 
in  order  and  sanctified. ' '  Does  not  ' '  put  in  order  ' '  mean  a  legal 
bath  and  "  sanctify"  to  bring  back  to  sacredness,  whence  it  is  ob- 
vious that  even  such  vessels  that  were  used  in  idol-worship  are  al- 
lowed to  be  brought  into  the  temple  for  use,  after  passing  through 
the  legal  bath  (the  more  so  are  allowed  the  vessels  of  the  Egyptian 
temple)?  Thereupon  said  Rabbi:  The  blessing  of  the  Lord 
upon  you  :  you  have  recalled  to  my  memory  the  forgotten  verse  ! 
"  Put  in  order"  means  to  hide  them,  and  "  sanctify  "  to  substi- 
tute them  by  other  vessels.  Is  Rabbi's  interpretation  supported 
by  the  following  Mishna  (Midath,  i.  6) :  There  was  a  pantry  in 
the  temple,  where  the  Maccabees  heaped  up  the  stones  of  the 
altar  defiled  by  the  Greeks;  and  R.  Sheshith  said:  The  Greeks 
have  defiled  the  altar  by  their  idol-worship,  and  though  these 
stones  are  allowed  for  private  use,  yet  they  were  not  used  in  the 
temple.  (Similar  was  the  case  with  the  vessels  of  the  Egyptian 
temple,  which  were  allowed  only  for  private  use)?  Said  R.  Papa  : 
From  the  case  of  the  Maccabees  is  no  support  at  all,  since  the 
stones  there  were  prohibited  even  for  private  use,  the  Maccabees 
guiding  themselves  by  [Ezek.  vii.  21]  :  "  And  I  will  give  it  up 
into  the  hands  of  the  strangers  .  .  .  and  they  shall  pollute  it  "  ; 
so  that  they  could  not  do  otherwise,  for,  in  order  that  the  stones 
be  again  allowed,  they  must  be  first  profaned  by  breaking  them, 
which  is  not  permitted  to  do,  as  by  law  "  whole  stones  must  be 
used  to  build  an  altar  "  ;  nor  could  the  stones  be  sawed  into  two 
(thereby  becoming  profaned),  since  the  law  forbids  "  to  bring 
iron  thereon";  so  that  as  there  was  no  means  to  profane  the 
said  stones,  they  were  of  necessity  set  aside.  But  why  did  not 
the  Maccabees  have  the  stones  profaned  by  a  heathen  and  make 
of  them  private  use?  They  could  not  do  even  this,  for  as  R. 
Oshia  said  :  The  sages  wanted  once  to  forbid  all  use  of  gold  and 
silver,  because  the  enemy  carried  off  the  gold  and  silver  of  the 
temple,  it  was,  namely,  feared  that  the  money  coined  therefrom 
might  reach  the  Israelites,  and  by  law  it  is  prohibited  to  make 
use  of  what  belongs  to  the  sanctuary.  It  was,  however,  ob- 
jected :  How  could  the  sages  have  conceived  such  a  wish,  the 
gold  arud  silver  of  Jerusalem  forming  but  an  infinitesimal  part 
of  those  in  the  whole  world,  and  the  smallest  can  never  render 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  113 

prohibited  the  greatest  part.  Abayi  explained  the  words  of  R. 
Oshia  thus :  The  sages  wanted  to  forbid  not  all  the  gold  and 
silver,  but  only  the  gold  and  silver  dinars  issued  by  both  the 
kings  Hadrian  and  Traion,  on  which  the  image  has  become  of 
late  undiscernible,  and  which  were  surely  coined  of  the  gold  and 
silver  of  the  temple.  However,  when  their  attention  was  called 
to  the  verse,  "  And  will  give  it  into  the  hands  of  strangers," 
etc.,  they  abandoned  the  idea,  seeing  that  an  object  once  pro. 
faned  is  allowed  for  private  use.  Now,  as  to  the  altar,  it  was  a 
sacred  place  to  bring  offerings  to  God,  which  is  not  the  case 
with  the  gold  and  silver;  hence  it  is  below  dignity  to  use  its 
stones  in  private. 

MISHNA  /v.:  A  heathen  can  profane  his  idol  as  well  as 
that  of  his  neighbor.  An  Israelite  cannot  profane  that  of  a 
heathen.  The  idol  once  profaned,  all  that  pertains  to  its  service 
is  abolished ;  on  the  contrary,  if  only  the  pertainings  were  pro- 
faned, they  alone  are  allowed,  but  not  the  idol. 

GEMARA  :  Rabbi  taught  to  Simeon  his  son :  A  heathen 
may  profane  his  idol  as  well  as  that  of  his  neighbor;  said  he  to 
him  :  Master,  in  your  youth  you  used  to  teach  that  a  heathen 
profanes  his  idol  as  well  as  that  of  an  Israelite.  (Says  the 
Gemara) :  Can  then  an  Israelite's  idol  be  profaned  ?  Was  it  not 
said  above  that  such  can  never  be  profaned  ?  Said  R.  Hillel  b. 
R.  Wells  :  He  spoke  then  of  the  case  where  the  heathen  owned 
the  idol  with  the  Israelite  in  partnership.  But  let  us  see  what 
was  the  reason  of  both  his  statement  in  his  youth  and  in  his  ad- 
vanced age.  In  his  youth  he  thought  that  if  an  Israelite  wor- 
ships an  idol,  he  does  it  with  the  knowledge  of  the  heathen, 
hence  the  heathen,  when  profaning  his  part,  profanes  also  that 
of  the  Israelite;  while  in  his  later  days  he  came  to  the  conclu- 
sion that  the  Israelite  is  worshipping  on  his  own  account,  hence 
the  heathen  profanes  only  his  own  part,  that  of  the  Israelite 
remaining  unprofaned. 

There  were  others  who  taught  the  statement  of  R.  Hillel  as 
concerning  the  latter  part  of  our  Mishna :  An  Israelite  cannot 
profane  that  of  a  heathen.  And  to  the  question,  is  this  not  self- 
understood  ?  Said  R.  Hillel  b.  Wells  :  It  refers  to  a  case  where 
an  Israelite  and  a  heathen  are  the  joint  owners  of  the  idol,  in 
which  case  the  former  can  profane  neither  his  nor  the  heathen's 
part,  while  the  latter  may  his  own  part  but  not  that  of  the 
Israelite.  Others,  however,  bring  this,  R.  Hillel's  explanation, 
in  connection,  not  with  the  Mishna,  but  with  the  Boraitha  fol- 


114  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

lowing.  R.  Simeon  b.  Menasia  said  :  The  idol  of  an  Israelite 
can  never  be  profaned;  and  this  "  never"  R.  Hillel  b.  Wells 
interpreted  to  mean  that,  when  an  Israelite  and  a  heathen  are  the 
joint  owners  of  an  idol,  the  latter,  by  profaning  his  own  part,  does 
by  no  means  profane  the  other's  part,  though  it  may  be  assumed 
here  that  the  Israelite  is  a  partner  to  the  idol  only  out  of  com- 
placence to  the  heathen.  And  he  comes  thereby  to  teach  us 
that  an  Israelite  worships  an  idol  not  on  the  knowledge  of  the 
heathen,  but  on  his  own. 

MISHNA  F.:  How  is  an  idol  to  be  profaned?  By  cutting 
off  the  tip  of  its  ear,  the  point  of  the  nose,  or  the  ends  of  the 
fingers,  or  by  disfiguring  its  face  with  a  hammer,  even  if  thereby 
nothing  is  broken  off.  But  if  he  only  spat  or  urinated  before  it, 
dragged  it  about  in  the  dirt,  or  cast  such  upon  it,  it  is  not  pro- 
faned. If  a  heathen  sold  or  pawned  his  idol  it  is  profaned  ac- 
cording to  Rabbi,  but  not  according  to  the  sages. 

GEMARA :  "Disfiguring  its  face  ivith  a  hammer,''  etc. 
Why  should  it  be  profaned  when  nothing  of  it  was  lost  thereby? 
Said  R.  Zera  :   Because  it  has  thus  been  made  unrecognizable. 

"  But  if  he  Ofily  spat,"  etc.  Whence  is  this  deduced?  Said 
'Hiskia,  from  [Is.  viii.  21,  22]  :  "  And  when  they  shall  be  hun- 
gry, they  will  become  enraged  and  curse  their  king  and  their 
god  .  .  .  and  they  will  look  unto  the  earth,"  etc.,  which  means  : 
Though  the  heathen  curse  his  king  and  god  and  look  up  to  the 
true  God,  he  will  still  turn  his  eye  back  to  the  earth  to  worship 
his  idol. 

"  If  a  heathen  sold,"  etc.  In  respect  of  this  part  of  the 
Mishna  Zeera  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  and  Jeremiah  b.  Abba 
in  the  name  of  Rabh  expressed  thus  their  respective  opinions. 
The  one  says :  The  decision  of  the  sages  regards  only  the  case 
when  the  heathen  sold  or  pawned  the  idol  to  a  heathen  jewel- 
ler, but  if  to  a  Jewish  one  all  agree  that  it  is  profaned; 
while  the  other  holds  that  they  differ  also  regarding  the  latter 
case.  The  schoolmen  asked  :  According  to  the  latter  view,  how 
should  the  Mishna  be  interpreted?  Does  Rabbi  mean  here  that 
the  idol  in  question  is  profaned  only  or  even  when  sold  or  pawned 
to  a  Jewish  jeweller,  but  if  to  a  heathen  he  agrees  with  the 
sages?  Come  and  hear.  Rabbi  said:  My  view  is  correct  in 
case  the  idol  is  sold  to  be  destroyed,  and  that  of  my  colleagues, 
if  to  be  worshipped.  But  broken  and  worshipped  must  have 
here  some  specific  meaning,  for  otherwise  we  should  obviously 
have  no  two  opinions  on  the  subject.     And  indeed.  Rabbi  in- 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  115 

tends  to  say:  An  idol  sold  to  an  Israelite  who  will  surely  not 
worship,  but  break  it,  while  the  sages  speak  of  an  idol  sold  to 
a  heathen  who  will  surely  not  break,  but  worship  it;  hence  they 
differ  in  both  cases?  Nay;  it  may  be  said  that  Rabbi's  state- 
ment means  this  :  My  view  is  accepted  by  my  colleagues,  when 
the  idol  was  sold  to  be  destroyed,  as  they  differ  only  when  sold 
for  worship  — to  a  heathen  jeweller. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  an  idol  is  pawned  by  a  heathen,  or  it 
is  buried  under  the  ruins  of  an  old  fallen  house,  or  is  stolen  by 
burglars,  or,  finally,  is  left  standing  alone  by  the  heathen,  who 
went  to  the  sea-countries,  the  question  arises  whether  or  no  the 
heathen  had  in  mind  to  come  back  to  it,  as  such  was  the  case  in 
the  time  when  Jehoshua  had  war  with  the  Amorites;  if  he  had, 
the  idol  is  not  profaned.  It  is  obvious  that  all  the  four  cases 
must  needs  be  stated.  The  first  case  implies  that  the  heathen 
wants  to  have  the  idol  back,  while  in  the  second,  the  idol  being 
left  under  the  ruins,  the  heathen  may  be  thought  as  renouncing 
it,  whereby  it  is  profaned;  hence  the  second  statement.  In 
like  manner  does  the  third  case  imply  something  different  from 
the  contents  of  the  preceding  cases  :  The  ruins  can  possibly  be 
removed,  but  a  burglary  is  less  likely  to  be  returned.  Finally, 
the  fourth  case  teaches  us  again  something  new — viz  :  while  in 
the  third  case  the  heathen  may  yet  think  that  the  idol  fell  into 
the  hands  of  heathen  thieves  and  they  will  worship  it,  or  even  if 
they  be  Israelites,  they  will  sell  it  to  heathens,  they  themselves, 
having  no  use  of  it;  in  the  fourth  case  he  abandons  the  idol  of 
his  own  will,  since  he  has  not  taken  it  along  with  him.  Hence 
all  the  four  cases  must  be  taught.  Now,  the  concluding  sen- 
tence of  the  Boraitha  must  be  thus  understood  ;  If  the  heathen 
has  his  mind  to  come  back  as  the  Amorites  did,  it  is  necessary 
to  treat  the  idol  in  the  same  way  as  it  was  treated  at  those  times 
— namely:  Not  to  regard  it  as  profaned,  but  rather  to  anni- 
hilate it  altogether.  But  did  the  Amorites  ever  return  ?  There 
was  nothing  of  the  kind !  The  answer  is  that  if  he  has  in  mind 
to  return,  his  idol  must  be  treated  as  in  the  war  of  Jehoshua 
(though  the  Amorites  have  not  returned).  But  if  so,  why  the 
comparison  with  Jehoshua's  times?  The  Boraitha  intends  to 
teach  by  the  way  yet  what  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of 
Rabh  :  If  an  Israelite  erects  a  brick  to  worship  it,  but  does  not 
worship,  and  a  heathen  comes  and  worships  it,  it  is  prohibited, 
notwithstanding  the  rule  that  no  one  can  render  a  thing  unallow- 
able that  is  not  his  own;  here  the  motive  of  the  Israelite  is 


ii6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

determining.  How  does  R.  Jehudah  substantiate  this  his  opin- 
ion ?  Said  R.  Elazor :  He  bases  it  on  the  proceedings  of  the 
Israelites  upon  their  entering  the  promised  land ;  for  it  reads : 
"  Their  groves  ye  shall  burn  with  fire";  here,  too,  one  could 
then  wonder  and  say :  The  holy  land,  having  been  promised  by 
God  to  Abraham  and  his  descendants,  belonged  to  the  Israelites 
and  not  to  the  Amorites;  how,  then,  could  the  latter  have  ren- 
dered unallowable  these  groves  that  were  not  their  own  ?  If  you 
are  ready  to  assume  that  these  groves  had  sprung  up  before  the 
promise,  then  you  must  regard  them  as  the  idol  of  a  heathen, 
whose  profanation,  as  we  have  seen  above,  suffices!  Why  then 
did  not  the  Israelites  compel  the  heathens  to  profane  it  and 
then  use  it?  Why  were  they  ordered  to  burn  it  down?  In 
view  of  all  this  the  verse,  "  Their  groves,"  etc.,  must  be  thus 
explained  :  The  promised  land  is  indeed  regarded  the  ownership 
of  the  Jews,  and  as  Israel,  by  his  worship  of  the  golden  calf  in 
the  wilderness,  exhibited  his  inclination  toward  idol-worship, 
the  grove  is  considered  the  idol  of  a  Jew,  worshipped  by  heath- 
ens only  in  accord  with  the  Jews,  and  as  such  can  by  no  means 
be  profaned,  but  must  be  annihilated.  And  the  case  here  with 
the  brick  is  perfectly  analogous.  However,  is  the  conclusion 
from  the  golden  calf  to  the  grove  warranted?  The  Israelites 
might  have  been  inclined  exclusively  toward  calf-worship? 
Nay ;  they  declaimed  at  that  time  before  the  calf :  These  are 
your  gods,  O  Israel!  whereby  they  must  have  meant  a  variety 
of  gods,  toward  which  they  felt  disposed.  Finally,  that  the  pro- 
hibition was  extended  to  all  groves  and  not  only  to  those  that 
were  the  contemporaries  of  the  calf  and  which  the  Israelites  re- 
pented, is  due  to  the  fact  that  there  was  no  possibility  to  distin- 
guish between  old  and  newly-planted  groves. 

MISHNA  VI. \  An  idol  abandoned  by  its  worshippers  in 
time  of  peace  is  allowed,  but  is  forbidden  when  abandoned  in 
time  of  war.  Altars  erected  for  kings  are  allowed,  for  the  idol 
is  put  on  them  only  when  the  kings  pass. 

GEMARA  :  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Abba  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh  : 
The  House  Nimrod  has  the  same  regulations  regarding  idols  as 
those  abandoned  by  the  owner  in  time  of  peace,  because,  though 
scattered  all  the  world  over  as  if  driven  about  by  war,  it  had  the 
choice  to  return  home  and  get  its  idols,  and  by  not  doing  so  it 
showed  a  lack  of  interest  in  them,  hence  they  are  allowed, 

**  Altars  erected  for  kings,''  etc.  Are  they  not,  after"  all, 
altars  of  the  idol?     Said  Rabba  b.  b.  'Hana  in  the  name  of  R. 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  117 

Johanan  :  It  means  to  say  that  the  priests  prepare  the  altars  for 
the  king,  but  he  takes  another  road,  so  that  no  idols  nor  offer- 
ings come  upon  these  altars.  Ula,  on  his  return  from  Palestine, 
alighted  on  one  of  such  altars  that  was  broken;  R.  Jehudah,  on 
noticing  this,  asked  him  why  he  acted  thus  after  both  Rabh  and 
Samuel  had  forbidden  all  use  of  such  an  altar  when  broken ;  and 
even  he  who  says  that  broken  idols  are  no  longer  worshipped 
and  hence  are  allowed,  does  not  assert  the  same  with  regard  to 
altars,  as  it  would  be  disgraceful  to  worship  a  broken  idol,  but 
upon  a  broken  altar  an  idol  may  always  be  put.  Hereupon 
replied  Ula :  My  respect  for  Rabh  and  Samuel  is  so  great  that 
I  should  readily  fill  my  eyes  with  the  ashes  of  their  corpses; 
none  the  less  I  cannot  help  refuting  this  opinion,  for  R.  Johanan 
and  Resh  Lakish  said  :  An  altar  upon  which  idols  are  habitually 
placed  is,  when  broken,  allowable;  furthermore,  even  he  who 
holds  that  fragments  are  worshipped  allows  such  an  altar,  as  he 
namely  says :  The  broken  idol  is  always,  even  when  broken, 
worshipfully  regarded  by  the  heathen,  while  no  godliness  is 
even  imputed  to  an  altar — it  is  but  a  mere  stand  for  idols — so 
that  as  soon  as  it  is  broken,  it  is  set  aside  without  any  regard. 
The  following  Boraitha  expresses  the  same  view  of  R.  Johanan 
and  Resh  Lakish  :  An  altar  used  as  a  stand  for  idols  is,  when 
partly  broken,  allowable;  however,  an  altar  used  for  sacrifices 
is,  when  broken,  forbidden,  until  most  of  its  stones  fall  apart. 

Which  are  the  marks  distinguishing  the  altar  for  sacrifices 
from  that  used  as  a  stand  ?  R.  Jacob  b.  Aidi  said  in  the  name 
of  R.  Johanan  :  The  latter  kind  consists  of  but  one  stone,  while 
the  former  of  several  stones.  'Hiskia  adduces  a  verse  to  this 
effect  [Is.  xxvii.  2"],  9]  :  "  When  he  maketh  all  the  stones  of  the 
altar  as  limestones,  that  are  beaten  in  pieces,  when  there  shall 
not  arise  again  any  groves  and  sun  images,"  i.e.,  only  when  they 
are  turned  to  lime  no  image  is  put  on  them,  nor  sacrifice,  then 
only  is  their  use  allowable. 

There  is  a  Boraitha :  If  one  worships  one's  own  animal,  it  is 
prohibited  from  being  used  as  a  sacrifice  in  the  temple,  but  not 
if  it  is  his  neighbor's.  There  is  a  contradiction  from  the  fol- 
lowing Thosephtha  :  All  cattle  is  regarded  as  worshipped,  imma- 
terial whether  the  worship  took  place  by  mistake  or  intention, 
by  compulsion  or  free  will.  Now,  what  other  could  be  the 
meaning  of  compulsion  than  that  one  forces  into  his  house  an 
animal  of  a  stranger  and  worships  it  ?  Hence,  cattle  of  a 
stranger  is  prohibited,  too,  through  worship.     Thereupon  said 


ii8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Rami  b.  'Hamma:  The  word  compulsion  means  that  heathens 
compelled  him  to  worship  his  own  animal. 

R.  Zera  opposed  :  Does  not  the  Scripture  free  a  culprit  by 
compulsion?  [Deut.  xxii.  26]  :  "  And  to  the  damsel  ye  shall  do 
nothing,"  etc.  Therefore  said  Rabha  :  The  prohibition  of  wor- 
ship was  general,  but  from  the  expression  [Levit.  xviii.  5]  : 
"  He  shall  live  in  them,"  whence  the  rabbis  infer  but  not  "  he 
shall  die  in  them,"  compulsion  was  excluded;  however,  there- 
after it  reads  again,  "  He  shall  not  profane  my  holy  name," 
whence  the  rabbis  infer  that  even  if  compelled,  which,  too, 
would  apparently  contradict  each  other.  The  explanation  is 
that  compulsion  imposed  privately  is  excused,  but  if  publicly, 
one  must  not  yield  to  it.  Said  the  rabbis  to  Rabha :  There  is 
a  Boraitha  that  supports  your  opinion  :  The  altars  of  idols  re- 
main prohibited  even  after  the  evil  decrees  of  the  government 
have  ceased.  Rejoined  Rabha  :  If  only  this,  it  cannot  be  a  sup- 
port to  my  opinion,  for  there  may  have  been  an  apostate  Jew 
who  worshipped  it  willingly.  Said  R.  Ashi :  Do  not  say  "  may 
have  been,"  as  it  is  certain  that  there  was  such,  and  therefore 
the  prohibition  remains  forever.  'Hiskia,  however,  said  that 
the  above-mentioned  forcing  of  the  neighbor's  animal  to  worship 
means  if  he  pours  wine  between  its  horns  for  the  idol,  and  not 
worshipped  by  bowing  to  it.  R.  Adda  b.  Ahaba,  however,  op- 
posed :  Can,  then,  this  be  called  worship?  One  can  worship  an 
idol,  while  by  pouring  wine  on  the  animal  for  the  idol  he  makes 
it  only  for  an  altar,  and  a  living  creature  is  not  forbidden  when 
used  in  the  service  to  the  idol. 

Therefore  said  R.  Adda  b.  Ahaba  :  'Hiskia  must  have  meant : 
When  the  animal  is  itself  made  some  idol  and  then  the  wine 
poured  to  honor  it,  it  is  forbidden,  which  view  coincides  with 
what  Ula  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  when  returning  from 
Palestine :  Although  strange  cattle  is  rendered  forbidden  by 
worship,  yet  it  is  prohibited  as  soon  as  some  act  has  been  per- 
formed on  its  body.  Said  R.  Na'hman  :  Go  tell  Ula  that  R. 
Huna  taught  us  this,  having  explained  this  Halakha  long  ago  in 
Babylon  :  An  animal  resting  in  the  proximity  of  an  idol  becomes 
unallowable,  as  soon  as  one  cuts  through  its  gullet  or  windpipe 
for  the  sake  of  the  idol,  and  be  it  the  ownership  of  another  one. 
Now,  upon  what  can  this  view  be  based  ?  The  report  of  the 
Boraitha  concerning  the  barring  of  priests,  who  were  compelled 
to  become  such  of  an  idol,  from  services  in  the  Jerusalem  tem- 
ple, contains  hardly  an  analogy  of  compulsion ;  because  a  priest 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  119 

could  flee  and  thus  save  himself,  while  an  animal  destitute  of 
intelligence  could  not.  Nor  can  the  Mishna,  treating  of  the 
Maccabees,  who  set  aside  the  altar-stones  upon  which  the  Greeks 
committed  some  act  to  honor  an  idol,  be  adduced  as  a  basis,  for 
R.  Papa  explained  it  already,  saying  [Ezek.  vii.  22]  :  "  I  turn 
my  face  from  them,  that  they  may  pollute  my  treasure,"  shows 
that  the  temple  was  profaned  by  the  arrival  of  the  Greeks,  and 
hence  was  no  longer  the  ownership  of  God,  but  considered  as 
that  of  the  Greeks.  Thus,  the  view  in  question  can  be  based 
but  on  this  passage  [II  Chron.  xxix.  19]  :  "  And  all  the  vessels 
which  King  Achaz  had  cast  aside  .  .  .  have  we  put  in  order 
and  sanctified  "  ;  and  the  master  said  that  they  were  hidden  and 
substituted  by  others,  i.e.,  they  were  prohibited.  Now,  these 
vessels  were  not  the  ownership  of  Ahaz,  and  hence  by  his  wor- 
ship he  could  not  possibly  profane  them ;  we  must  thus  assume 
that  he  committed  with  them  some  act  of  honor  to  the  idols, 
whereby  he  rendered  them  forbidden,  and  here  is  applied  the 
same  rule  in  respect  of  cattle. 

R.  Dimi,  on  his  return  from  Palestine,  said  in  the  name  of 
R.  Johanan  :  Although  the  sages  taught  that,  when  one  bows 
to  uncultivated  ground,  saying:  This  be  my  god,  the  ground  is 
thereby  not  forbidden;  yet  if  he  dug  graves,  pits  or  caves  as  an 
idol,  the  ground  is  prohibited.  R.  Samuel  b.  Jehudah,  on  his 
return  from  Palestine,  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  It  is 
true  the  sages  said  that  an  animal  worshipped  by  others  than  its 
proprietor  is  not  forbidden;  yet  the  animal  obtained  by  the 
idol-worshippers  in  exchange  for  an  idol  is  forbidden.  Rabin, 
when  back  from  Palestine,  said  :  Concerning  this  topic  R.  Ismael 
b.  R.  Jose  and  the  sages  have  expressed  two  opinions,  but  it  is 
not  known  who  said  which.  The  one  prohibits  an  animal  ex- 
changed for  an  idol,  but  allows  the  second  animal  obtained  in 
exchange  for  the  first.  The  other  opinion  prohibits  the  second 
animal,  too,  basing  itself  upon  [Deut.  vii.  26]  :  "  .  .  .  lest  thon 
become  accursed  like  it  "  ;  hence,  it  appears  that  whatever  comes 
from  the  accursed  is  like  it,  and  is  accordingly  forbidden. 

MISHNA  VII.\  The  Jewish  elders  were  asked  by  the  phi- 
losophers at  Rome  :  If  God  is  displeased  with  idol-worship,  why 
does  he  not  destroy  the  idols?  And  they  replied:  If  the 
heathens  worshipped  but  things  not  needful  to  the  world,  he 
would  surely  annihilate  them ;  but  the  fact  is  that  they  worship 
the  sun,  moon,  stars  and  planets ;  should  then  God  destroy  his 
world  on  account  of  these  fools  ?     Then  retorted  the  others : 


I20  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Let  God  destroy  the  unnecessary  objects  and  leave  the  other? 
that  are  needed  for  the  preservation  of  the  world.  Replied  the 
elders :  If  he  did  so,  the  idol-worshippers  would  but  be  con- 
firmed in  their  belief  and  say  :  Here  you  see  that  these  are  gods, 
for  they  are  indestructible. 

GEMARA :  The  rabbis  taught :  The  philosophers  once 
questioned  the  elders  at  Rome  :  If  your  God  is  displeased  with 
idol-worship,  why  does  he  not  destroy  the  idols?  And  they  re- 
plied :  If  the  heathens  worshipped  but  things  not  needful  to  the 
world,  he  would  surely  annihilate  them ;  but  they  worship  the 
sun,  moon,  stars  and  the  planets;  shall  he  destroy  the  world 
because  of  the  fools?  But  the  Lord  allows  the  world  its  natural 
course,  and  as  to  these  fools  who  spoil  it,  they  will  not  escape 
punishment — in  other  words,  when  some  one  steals  wheat  and 
sows  it,  the  seed  should  not  bear  fruit  by  reason  of  its  being 
stolen ;  but  nay,  God  lets  nature  her  course,  while  to  the  thief 
will  be  meted  his  due.  In  like  manner,  adultery  is  not  barren 
on  its  own  account,  but  the  culprit  is  not  spared,  Resh  Lakish 
says  something  to  this  effect :  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  he, 
says  :  Not  only  do  the  wicked  of  this  earth  forfeit  my  coin,  but 
they  force  me  yet  to  put  my  stamp  thereon. 

A  philosopher  once  asked  Raban  Gamaliel :  Your  law  says 
[Deut.  iv.  24]:  "  For  the  Lord  thy  God  is  a  consuming  fire, 
yea,  a  watchful  God";  why  is  it  that  he  is  so  watchful  with 
regard  to  the  worshipper  and  not  to  the  idol?  Said  Raban 
Gamaliel:  I  will  answer  your  question  by  a  metaphor:  Sup- 
pose a  king's  son  names  his  dog  with  the  father's  name  and 
swears,  whenever  he  does,  by  the  life  of  this  dog;  the  father, 
once  informed  about  this,  will  he  get  angry  at  his  son  or  at  the 
dog?  Naturally  enough,  at  the  son.  Thereupon  said  the  phi- 
losopher :  You  call  the  idol  dog,  which  is  not  feasible,  since  the 
idol  has  loftier  gifts.  You  ask  which  are  these?  Why,  once  a 
conflagration  consumed  all  our  city,  and  the  idol  temple  re- 
mained intact.  Answered  R.  Gamaliel :  I  shall  use  again  a 
metaphor:  A  province  once  revolted  against  the  king;  against 
whom  do  you  suppose  he  used  his  weapons,  against  the  living 
or  against  the  dead?  Naturally  enough,  against  the  former. 
Said  the  philosopher:  You  style  our  gods  dogs  and  dead;  well, 
then,  when  they  really  are  so  worthless  why  does  not  God  an- 
nihilate them  altogether?  Yea,  he  would  surely  do  it,  was  the 
reply,  were  they  not  of  objects  useful  to  the  preservation  of  the 
world,  such  as  are  the  sun,  moon,  stars,  planets,  mountains  and 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  121 

valleys,  for  it  reads  [Zeph.  i.  2,  3]  :  "  I  will  remove  utterly  all 
things  from  off  the  face  of  the  earth,  saith  the  Lord.  I  will  re- 
move man  and  beast ;  I  will  remove  the  fowls  of  the  heaven,  and 
the  fishes  of  the  sea,  and  the  stumbling  blocks  of  the  wicked." 
That  is  to  say:  The  Lord  wonders,  shall  I  do  this  when  the 
heathens -worship  man,  too?  I  should  have  then  to  destroy  the 
whole  universe ! 

Agrippus,  the  general  of  Rome,  said  to  Raban  Gamaliel: 
"  The  Lord,  thy  God,  is  a  consuming  fire,"  etc.  In  our  every- 
day life  we  find  it  to  be  the  rule  that  a  potentate  is  but  jealous 
of  his  equal,  a  sage  of  another  sage,  a  hero  of  another  hero, 
a  rich  of  another  rich ;  now,  then,  if  God  is  jealous  of  an  idol, 
the  idol  must  be  of  some  power!  R.  Gamaliel  explained  it  to 
him  with  the  following  metaphor:  If  one  who  has  a  wife,  takes 
yet  another  one,  the  former  will  not  be  jealous  unless  the  new 
wife  be  a  nothing  compared  with  herself. 

An  Israelite  named  Zunan  said  to  R.  Aqiba :  I  know  just  as 
well  as  you  do  that  the  idols  are  nothing,  yet  I  should  like  to 
know,  how  is  it  that  so  many  cripples  are  cured  by  the  idols  in 
their  temples?  Replied  R.  Aqiba:  Listen  to  the  following 
parable.  There  lived  once  in  a  town  a  pious  man  who  enjoyed 
the  unlimited  confidence  of  his  fellow  townsmen  so  that  they 
would  deposit  with  him  money  and  were  it  without  any  witness, 
with  the  exception,  however,  of  one  who  would  leave  with  him 
nothing  without  witness.  It  once  happened,  however,  that  this 
exceptional  man  left  something  in  the  hands  of  the  other  with- 
out any  security ;  thereupon  said  the  wife  of  the  latter :  Now 
we  shall  revenge  on  that  distrustful  man  his  mistrust  to  us,  let 
us  deny  that  he  has  a  deposit  with  us;  retorted  her  husband: 
Because  of  the  short-comings  of  his  understanding  shall  I  put 
my  reputed  name  on  stake?  No;  this  I  shall  never  do!  The 
same  is  the  case  with  debility,  disease  and  pains  visited  upon 
man;  they  are  under  oath  assigned  a  certain  time,  no  more,  no 
less,  during  which  to  torture  a  man;  it  is  further  predestined  by 
what  man  or  what  medicine  the  disease  be  eliminated.  Now, 
when  its  time  is  off,  the  afflicted  goes  to  the  idol-temple;  the 
disease  protests,  saying:  because  the  man  takes  recourse  to  the 
idol,  I  should  not  abandon  him,  but  as  I  am  bound  by  oath  I 
should  not  break  it  on  account  of  this  foolish  man ;  thus  the 
disease  leaves  him  and  he  believes  that  it  was  the  work  of  the 
idol.  R.  Johanan  explained  it  from  [Deut,  xxviii.  59]  :  "  Then 
will  the  Lord  render  peculiar  thy  plagues  .   .   .  and  sicknesses 


122  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

sore  and  necmonim  "  (literally  trustful);  sore,  for  the  man  suffers 
therefrom,  and  trustful,  for  it  never  breaks  its  oath. 

Rabha  b.  R.  Itz'hak  said  to  R.  Jehudah:  There  is  an  idol 
in  our  town,  and  whenever  there  is  drought  by  us,  it  comes  in 
dream  to  the  priests,  saying :  Sacrifice  a  human  being  to  me 
and  you  shall  have  rain ;  and  this  condition  fulfilled,  it  in  reality 
begins  to  rain.  Thereupon  said  R.  Jehudah :  You  may  esteem 
3'ourselves  fortunate  that  I  am  yet  among  the  living,  for  were  I 
dead,  I  should  not  be  in  a  position  to  communicate  to  you  what 
Rabh  said  thereabout — viz. :  it  reads  [ibid.  iv.  19] :  "  And  that 
thou  lift  not  up  thy  eyes  unto  the  heavens,  and  thou  seest  the 
sun,  and  the  moon  and  the  stars,  all  the  host  of  heaven,  and  be 
misled  to  bow  down  to  them  .  .  .  which  Lord  thy  God  hath 
assigned  unto  all  nations  it  "  ;  you  see  from  here  that  God  has 
given  some  power  to  some  worshipped  objects  for  the  purpose 
of  barring  their  worshippers  from  the  world  to  come.  And  this 
is  what  Resh  Lakish  says  elsewhere,  it  reads  [Prov.  iii.  34]  :  "  If 
it  concern  the  scornful,  he  will  himself  render  them  a  scorn,  but 
unto  the  lowly  lives  he  gives  grace,"  whence,  if  one  comes  to 
defile  himself,  the  door  is  opened  to  him,  while  when  one  comes 
to  cleanse  himself,  he  is  supported. 

MISHNA  VIII.\  It  is  allowable  to  buy  a  wine-press  from 
a  heathen  even  while  he  takes  grapes  therefrom  and  puts  them 
into  the  heap  of  grapes.  The  wine  is  not  considered  offered  ere 
it  reaches  the  reservoir,  while  upon  reaching  it  all  that  is  in  it  is 
(provided  the  heathen  touches  it)  forbidden,  the  rest  is  allowed. 
It  is  allowed  to  tread  but  not  to  gather  the  grapes  jointly  with 
a  heathen.  It  is  forbidden  both  to  tread  and  to  gather  with  an  Is- 
raelite who  prepares  the  wine  while  he  is  unclean;  it  is,  however, 
allowed  to  help  him  convey  empty  casks  to,  and  then  filled  ones 
back  from,  the  press.  It  is  forbidden  to  assist  a  baker,  who,  in 
a  state  of  uncleanness,  prepares  his  bread,  in  kneading  or  or- 
dering, but  one  may  help  him  carry  the  bread  to  the  dealer. 

GEMARA:  R.  Huna  said:  As  soon  as  the  wine  trickles 
from  the  grapes,  the  touch  of  a  heathen  renders  it  unallowable. 
It  was  objected  thereto  from  the  Mishna  :  It  is  allowed  to  buy 
a  wine-press,"  etc.,  whence  it  is  manifest  that  the  wine  on  be- 
ginning to  trickle  is  not  forbidden.  Whereupon  it  was  rejoined : 
R.  Huna  understands  that  the  press  in  question  is  propped  up 
at  the  bottom,  and  that  an  Israelite  filled  it  first  with  grapes, 
the  heathen  having  added  some  not  until  later.  Come  and  hear 
another  objection!     The   Mishna  goes  on  to  say:  .  .  .  while 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  123 

upon  reaching  the  reservoir  all  the  wine  that  is  in  it  is  forbid- 
den, the  rest  is  allowed,  whence,  only  the  wine  that  flows  down 
is  forbidden;  said  R.  Huna,  the  sages  have  afterward  retracted 
this  Mishna,  as  in  the  following  Boraitha:  The  rabbis  held  orig- 
inally that  it  is  not  allowed  to  gather  grapes  jointly  with  a 
heathen,  for  what  the  latter  gathers  is  unclean  and  defiles  by 
touch  the  grapes  gathered  by  the  Israelite,  which  are  considered 
wine.  They  further  warned  against  contributing  toward  the 
conditions  defiling  the  fruit  in  Palestine,  as  well  as  against  assist- 
ing an  Israelite  who  defies  the  rules  of  cleanness,  in  treading  the 
wine-press,  because  one  must  not  help  a  transgressor  in  his 
work;  while  the  heathen  may  be  aided,  for  he  is  not  bound  by 
the  rules  of  clean  and  unclean.  Finally,  the  wine  does  not 
become  offered  by  the  sole  fact  of  treading,  for  R.  Huna's  opin- 
ion on  this  point  has  been  rejected.  However,  the  sages,  as 
said  above,  retracted  this  view,  asserting  :  Assistance  to  a 
heathen  in  treading  is  foridden,  for  the  grape-juice  is  offered 
wine  immediately  upon  trickling,  so  that  the  assisting  Israelite 
would  get  remunerated  for  working  on  what  is  not  allowed; 
Such  is  also  R.  Huna's  opinion.  Nor  is  it  allowable  to  gather  or 
tread  grapes  with  an  Israelite  who  defies  the  rules  of  cleanness, 
for  every  Israelite  is  obliged  to  give  from  his  fruit  Teruma  to 
the  priest,  and  here  the  clean  grapes  are  rendered  unclean  by 
the  others,  thus  defiling  also  the  Teruma,  which  is  not  allowed 
as  to  a  heathen,  it  is  allowed  to  gather  with  him,  as  he  is  free 
from  Teruma,  and  fruits  exempted  from  Teruma  may  be  caused 
to  be  defiled  even  in  Palestine, 

The  wine  is  not  considered  offered  ere,"  etc.  Concerning 
tithe,  however,  there  is  a  Mishna  that  it  is  obligatory  as  soon 
as  the  grape-pits  swim  up,  since  this  is  an  index  of  wine.  Said 
Rabha:  This  presents  no  difficulty;  as  regards  tithe  we  have 
the  opinion  of  R.  Aqiba,  while  the  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with 
the  other  sages;  as  a  Mishna  states:  In  the  case  of  tithe,  the 
index  of  wine  is  its  flowing  into  the  reservoir.  R.  Aqiba,  how- 
ever, says  :  It  is  the  swimming  up  of  the  grape-pits.  Hereupon 
it  was  asked:  How  should  this  swimming  tip  of  the  pits  be  under- 
stood ?  Does  it  refer  to  the  case  when  the  wine,  after  filling  the 
reservoir  to  a  certain  point,  causes  the  pits  to  rise  to  the  surface, 
or  to  the  case  when  the  wine  is  already  in  the  casks,  and  during 
its  fermentation  the  pits  come  up  to  the  surface  ?  Come  and 
hear  the  following  Boraitha:  It  is  called  wine  when  the  pits 
swim  up;  accordingly,  it  is  allowed  to  drink  the  wine  from  the 


124  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

press  as  well  as  from  the  pipe  connecting  it  with  the  reservoir, 
whence  it  is  obvious  that  the  first  of  the  two  cases  is  referred 
to.  But  has  not  R.  Zebid  taught  this  Boraitha  in  the  name  of 
the  disciples  of  R.  Oshia,  as  follows:  It  is  called  wine  when 
poured  into  the  reservoir  and  when  the  pits  swim  up,  while  R. 
Aqiba  requires  its  being  put  yet  into  the  casks;  from  here  it  is 
apparent  that  the  sages  as  well  as  R.  Aqiba  are  involved  in  a 
contradiction,  from  which  to  extricate  them  is  necessary  to  in- 
terpret the  former  version  of  the  Boraitha  in  the  light  of  R. 
Zebid's  Boraitha.  Now,  taking  account  of  the  Mishna,  we  shall 
have  three  opinions  regarding  the  here-disputed  point.  The 
Mishna  declares  it  wine  when  it  reaches  the  reservoir;  the  sages 
when,  the  wine  being  therein,  the  pits  swim  up;  finally,  R. 
Aqiba,  not  before  it  is  in  the  casks  ?  The  answer  is  that  the 
Mishna  may  be  so  interpreted  as  to  agree  with  both  the  other 
views,  since  the  sages  and  R.  Aqiba  differ  only  in  as  far  as  the 
index  of  wine  for  tithe  is  concerned,  while  the  Mishna  treats  of 
the  index  of  wine  to  become  offered  which  is  very  rigorous.  As 
to  Rabha,  however,  he  must  rest  satisfied  with  the  three  opin- 
ions as  opposed  to  one  another,  as  he  makes  no  difference 
between  the  said  cases. 

' '  What  is  in  it  is  forbidden,  and  the  rest  is  allowed. "  R.  H  una 
explains  this  as  follows:  The  rest  in  the  press  is  allowed  only 
when  the  cleansing  basket  through  which  the  wine  passes  on  its 
way  from  the  press  to  the  reservoir  in  order  to  be  cleaned  of  the 
husks,  is  not  again  emptied  into  the  press.  But  why  should  the 
contents  of  the  basket  be  forbidden,  the  heathen  having  touched 
only  the  wine  in  the  reservoir  ?  There  can  hardly  be  another 
reason  than  that  the  wine  of  the  upper  vessel  and  flowing  into 
the  lower  one  be  considered  as  a  whole,  and  that  the  flow  thus 
connects  the  two  wines  into  one  ?  And  yet  this  question,  as  to 
whether  or  no  the  flow  be  a  connecting  link  between  the  two 
wines  in  the  above  sense,  propounded  elsewhere,  has  found  no 
satisfactory  answer.  And  as  our  foregoing  discussion  has  not 
been  resorted  to  in  this  connection,  it  must  not  be  assumed  that 
the  flow  is  no  connecting  link,  but  as  R.  'Hyya  explains  it: 
When  the  two  vessels  are  full  of  wine  so  that,  their  mouths 
being  near,  the  wines  touch  each  other,  they  are  regarded  as  one 
wine.  Accordingly  in  our  case  the  reservoir  must  be  so  full  of 
wine  as  to  touch  the  basket,  so  that  when  the  contents  thereof 
are  emptied  into  the  press,  what  is  in  the  latter  also  becomes 
forbidden. 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  125 

It  is  related  of  a  boy  who  in  his  sixth  year  was  well  versed 
in  the  Tract  Idolatry.  Once  he  was  asked  whether  an  Israel- 
ite and  a  heathen  may  jointly  tread  a  wine-press  ?  His  answer 
was  in  the  affirmative,  notwithstanding  R.  Huna's  negative 
view.  And  to  the  objection  that  the  heathen  renders  the  wine 
forbidden  by  his  touching  the  grapes,  the  boy  retorted :  Have 
the  hands  of  the  heathen  wrapped  up  with  cloth,  so  that  he 
might  not  touch  the  grapes  with  bare  hands.  Finally,  upon 
being  further  asked  that  the  heathen  may  touch  the  grapes  with 
his  feet,  he  replied  that  touching  by  foot  is  not  considered. 

It  once  happened  that  an  Israelite  and  a  heathen  jointly  hired 
and  worked  a  wine-press  in  the  City  of  Nahardea;  R.  Samuel, 
asked  as  to  how  to  behave  with  regard  to  this  wine,  hesitated  to 
answer  until  after  three  festivals  during  which  the  sages  were  in 
assembly;  for  he  wanted  to  first  propound  this  question  to 
them.  The  question  arises,  why  was  he  anxious  to  hear  the 
opinion  of  the  sages  ?  If  because  he  expected  to  find  one  of 
them  entertaining  the  opinion  of  R.  Nathan,  then  we  must  say 
that  he  wanted  to  prohibit  all  benefit  of  this  wine;  for  it  was 
taught:  If  the  heathen  measures  out  the  wine  with  the  hand  or 
foot,  Israelites  must  not  drink  it,  but  it  may  be  sold  to  heathens; 
while  R.  Nathan  prohibits  all  benefit  of  wine  measured  by  hand. 
But  now  that  R.  Nathan  makes  no  reference  to  the  measure  by 
foot,  it  must  be  assumed  that  Samuel  was  not  waiting  for  his 
opinion,  but  he  rather  expected  to  find  one  of  the  sages  in  favor 
of  R.  Shimon's  view,  which  allows  the  wine,  even  to  consume, 
provided  it  was  not  touched  by  the  heathen  intentionally. 

It  once  happened  at  Biram  that  a  certain  heathen  climbed 
up  a  palm-tree  to  get  down  some  branches.  On  coming  down 
he  unwittingly  touched  with  one  of  the  branches  a  cask  of  wine. 
Rabh  was  asked  on  the  point,  and  he  prohibited  Israelites  from 
drinking  this  wine,  allowing,  however,  its  sale  to  heathens. 
Thereupon  R.  Kahana  and  R,  Assi  interposed:  Have  you, 
master,  not  yourself  taught  that  even  a  one-day-old  child  of  a 
heathen  renders  the  wine  prohibited  when  touching  it  ?  And 
in  this  case  there  is  surely  no  intention  involved !  Answered 
Rabh:  I  prohibited  only  to  drink  it,  but  not  to  sell  it  and  use  the 
money  thereof. 

The  text  says:  Rabh  holds  "  that  even  a  cne-day-old  child  of 
a  heathen,"  etc.  R.  Shimi  b.  Hyya  advanced  the  following  ob- 
jection: When  one  buys  slaves  from  a  heathen,  has  them  cir- 
cumcised but  not  bathed  in  the  legal  bath,  the  place  they  tread 


126  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

on  as  well  as  what  they  spit  out,  is  undean.  Precisely  the  same 
is  the  case  with  the  acquired  children  of  a  female  slave;  but 
according  to  others  the  children  are  clean.  In  the  case  of  wine 
the  same  rule  holds:  Adults  render  it  forbidden  by  touch,  but 
not  children.  What  is  an  adult  ?  When  already  familiar  with 
the  nature  of  idol-worship,  and  is  considered  a  child  before  that 
period.  We  see,  then,  from  this  Boraitha,  that  contrary  to 
Rabh's  position,  a  child  does  not  make  the  wine  unallowable  by 
mere  touch  ?  The  answer  is  that  the  "  child  "  spoken  of  in  this 
Boraitha  is  one  born  of  a  female  slave  in  the  house  of  an  Israel- 
ite; as  to  other  children,  inclusive  of  slaves  bought  of  a  heathen, 
Rabh's  precept  holds  good.  But  here  is  another  question.  The 
Boraitha  says:  The  same  is  the  case  with  the  children  of  a 
female  slave,  which  would  suggest  the  inference  that  there  is  no 
difference  between  a  slave  bought,  or  one  brought  up  in  the 
house  of  an  Israelite.  The  answer  is  that  this  phrase  refers  only 
to  their  spittle  and  the  place  trodden  on  by  them.  However, 
this  explanation  is  correct  according  to  him  who  says  that  these 
are  unclean,  but  what  according  to  him  who  declares  them 
clean  ?  He  comes  to  teach  us  that  adult  slaves  bought,  circum- 
cised and  then  legally  bathed,  do  not  make  the  wine  forbidden 
by  touch,  just  as  the  children  of  a  female  slave.  The  Boraitha 
states  this  in  order  to  exclude  the  opinion  cited  by  R.  Na'hman 
in  the  name  of  R.  Samuel  to  the  effect  that  when  an  Israelite 
buys  slaves  from  a  heathen,  has  them  circumcised  and  legally 
bathed,  they  none  the  less  render  the  wine  forbidden  all  the 
time,  till  they  cease  to  mention  the  name  of  the  idol  and  wholly 
forget  it.  And  how  long  is  this  time  ?  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi 
set  the  limit  of  this  period  at  twelve  months. 

In  the  town  Mechusa  a  heathen  once  happened  to  enter  the 
house  of  a  Jewish  wine-seller,  who  answered  his  question  as  to 
whether  he  sells  wine,  in  the  negative.  The  heathen,  noticing 
on  the  table  a  little  wine  in  a  vessel  with  which  the  Jew  used  to 
serve  wine,  put  his  hand  right  into  it,  saying:  Is  not  this  wine  ? 
The  host,  excited  over  this  misdeed,  emptied  the  vessel  back 
into  the  cask;  so  that  he  had  to  consult  Rabha  what  to  do  with 
the  wine  ?  He  advised  him  to  sell  it  to  heathens.  When  R. 
Huna  b.  'Hinna  and  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Na'hman  heard  of  this  inci- 
dent, they  said  that  all  benefit  of  this  wine  is  forbidden.  There- 
upon, Rabha  heralded  that  the  wine  may  be  sold  to  heathens; 
while  the  both  Hunas  let  herald  the  opposite.  Some  time  after, 
R.    Huna  b.   R.  Na'hman  happened  to  be  in   Mechusa  where 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  127 

Rabha  resided;  so  Rabha  instructed  his  servant  not  to  admit 
anybody  at  the  time  when  Huna  will  be  by  him,  since  they, 
two,  will  be  busied  with  the  settlement  of  an  important  dispute. 
R.  Huna,  on  coming  to  him,  opened,  indeed,  the  foregoing 
question,  and,  to  his  great  astonishment,  Rabha  said  that  all  use 
of  that  wine  is  forbidden.  And  to  the  question:  Has  not  the 
master  allowed  such  a  case,  he  answered :  In  this  particular  case 
it  was  the  wine  in  the  cask  that  I  allowed,  but  the  wine  touched 
by  the  heathen  and  poured  back  into  the  cask  I  prohibited,  re- 
quiring rather  that  its  worth  be  cast  into  the  sea.  It  is  true, 
I  once  allowed  also  the  other  wine,  but  during  my  sojourn  at 
Pumbedita,  Nahmani  (Abayi)  adduced  so  many  Boraithas  and 
conclusions  of  other  sages  against  my  tenet,  that  I  withdrew  my 
former  opinion,  and  now  I  prohibit  the  wine  poured  back;  for 
among  others,  Nahmani  told  me  of  such  a  case  in  Nahardea, 
and  Samuel  prohibited  the  wine;  in  another  case  at  Tiberia,  R. 
Johanan  has  likewise  forbidden.  I  attempted  to  argue:  Samuel 
and  R.  Johanan  may  have  been  led  to  such  stringency  by  the 
fact  that  at  those  places  the  population  is  ignorant,  in  which 
case  rigorous  legislation  is  commendable;  but  he  replied:  Do 
you  think  that  Mechusa  is  more  enlightened  than  Nahardea  and 
Tiberia?  He  also  called  my  attention  to  the  following  Thoseph- 
tha:  It  once  happened  that  the  excise  collectors  poured  back 
into  the  cask  the  wine  left  after  they  had  had  a  drink;  one  of 
them  drew  also  some  wine  with  a  lever,  putting  the  lever  back 
in  the  cask,  and  the  sages  prohibited  this  wine  for  all  benefit. 

R.  Johanan  b.  Arza  and  R.  Jose  b.  Nehorai  were  once  sitting 
together  indulging  a  little  in  wine,  when  a  man  came  in.  They 
told  him  to  pour  in  for  them;  but  no  sooner  had  he  fulfilled 
their  order  than  they  discovered  that  he  was  a  heathen.  There- 
upon one  of  the  two  said:  The  wine  is  absolutely  forbidden, 
while  the  other  asserted  that  it  is  even  allowable  to  drink.  Said 
R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi :  Both  had  their  respective  opinions  well 
grounded;  the  former  must  have  reasoned  thus:  The  man  knew 
us  to  be  of  the  sages,  and  he  could  easily  notice  that  we  were 
going  to  drink  wine,  which,  when  ordered  by  us  to  pour  in,  he 
would,  in  his  thought,  render  prohibited.  While  the  other  one 
must  have  reasoned  the  other  way — viz. :  The  man,  knowing  us 
to  be  of  the  sages,  surely  thought  that  we  drank  no  wine,  since 
otherwise  we  should  not  order  him,  a  heathen,  to  pour  in  for 
us,  hence  the  wine  is  allowed.  But,  against  the  latter  it  may 
be  asked:  Did  not  the  heathen  see  that  it  was  wine?    Nay,  it 


128  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

all  took  place  in  the  evening.  Neither  could  he  discern  it  by 
smell,  as  it  was  new  wine,  which  has  no  smell.  That  he  did  not 
touch  it  is  certain,  for  the  wine  was  in  a  bottle;  and  the  shaking 
of  the  wine  by  a  heathen  is  prohibited  only  when  done  inten- 
tionally, which  was  not  here  the  case. 

R.  Assi  questioned  R.  Johanan :  Does  a  heathen  render  the 
wine  prohibited  by  pouring  water  into  it?  Yea,  was  the  answer; 
for  a  Nazarite  must  be  told :  Go  around,  go  around,  but  do  not 
approach  the  vineyard  in  order  not  to  yield  to  temptation  and 
eat  from  its  fruit.  R.  Jeremiah,  when  once  in  Sabatta,  noticed 
that  the  heathens  there  are  wont  to  dilute  the  wine  that  the 
Jews  drink,  and  he  reminded  them  of  the  foregoing  warning  to 
a  Nazarite.  It  was  taught  likewise  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan, 
according  to  others  R,  Assi,  in  his  name:  Wine  diluted  by  a 
heathen  is  forbidden  by  reason  of  temptation  as  above. 

Resh  Lakish  was  once  in  Bozrah  (a  town  conquered  by  the 
King  David  in  the  province  of  Moab).  He  saw  the  Jews  there 
eat  fruit  without  having  separated  the  tithe  thereof,  and  he  told 
them  that  this  is  not  allowed.  He  further  noticed  that  the  Jews 
were  wont  to  drink  the  water  consecrated  by  the  heathens,  and 
prohibited  it,  too.  Later  he  happened  to  visit  R.  Johanan  to 
whom  he  related  his  observations  and  prohibitions,  and  R. 
Johanan  told  him :  Go  right  back  and  allow  all  you  have  pro- 
hibited, because  you  mistook  Bozrah  for  Betzer  which  was  con- 
quered by  Moses,  and  where  the  tithe  is  thus  obligatory;  and 
as  to  the  water  there,  it  is  public  ownership  which,  as  such,  can- 
not be  prohibited  at  all. 

R.  Hyya  b.  Abba  made  once  a  journey  to  Gabla,  where  he 
observed  that  Jewesses  were  pregnant  from  heathens,  who, 
though  circumcised,  were  not  yet  legally  bathed.  He  further 
saw  that  the  Jews  were  drinking  the  wine  diluted  by  the  heath- 
ens; he  also  noticed  that  Jews  were  eating  Turmus  (fig-bean) 
cooked  by  heathens.  He,  however,  did  not  interfere.  When  he 
later  reported  this  to  R.  Johanan,  the  latter  said :  Go  right  back 
and  have  it  publicly  announced  that  their  children  are  bastards, 
the  wine  is  to  be  regarded  nessech  (idolatrous  libation),  and  the 
Turmus  is  forbidden  like  all  other  things  cooked  by  heathens, 
because  the  inhabitants  of  Galba  are  uneducated.  With  refer- 
ence to  the  children,  R.  Johanan  expressed  the  same  opinion 
elsewhere,  saying  that  one  is  not  considered  a  proselyte  unless 
he  is  both  circumcised  and  legally  bathed,  hence  the  above  are 
still  considered  heathens;  and  Rabba  b.  'Hana  said  in  the  name 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  129 

of  R.  Johanan:  When  a  heathen  or  a  slave  seduces  a  Jewish  girl, 
the  offspring  is  regarded  as  a  bastard.  The  wine  he  prohibited 
by  reason  of  temptation  as  said  above,  and  the  Turmus,  because 
they  are  there  uneducated,  otherwise  it  would  be  allowed. 

R.  Kahana  was  once  asked  whether  it  is  allowed  to  hire  a 
heathen  for  conveying  grapes  to  the  wine-press  of  an  Israelite ; 
his  answer  was  in  the  negative,  by  reason  of  the  temptation 
above-mentioned,  R.  Yemer  objected  to  him  from  this  Toseph- 
tha:  The  grapes  carried  by  a  heathen  to  the  press,  be  it  in  a 
basket  or  any  other  vessel,  are  allowed  even  when  trickling. 
Said  R.  Kahana:  This  is  no  weighty  objection,  for  here  it  treats 
of  grapes  already  carried,  which  I,  too,  should  allow,  but  not  to 
hire  one  originally  for  such  work. 

Once  a  citron  chanced  to  fall  into  a  cask  of  wine;  a  heathen 
seeing  this,  hurried  to  take  it  out  with  his  hand,  and  R.  Ashi 
ordered  to  hold  his  arm  fast  in  order  to  prevent  it  from  moving, 
then  to  open  the  faucet  and  have  the  wine  flow  into  another 
vessel,  when  it  will  be  allowed  for  sale.  The  same  R.  Ashi  said 
that  wine  made  prohibited  by  the  touch  of  a  heathen  is  not 
allowed  to  be  sold  to  other  heathens ;  the  heathen,  however, 
who  touched  it,  may  be  made  to  pay  for  the  wine  by  consider- 
ing the  thing  in  a  manner  as  if  the  heathen  had  spilled  or  in 
some  other  way  destroyed  the  wine,  when  it  would  be  legiti- 
mate to  recover  the  loss.  This,  his  opinion,  he  corroborates  by 
the  following  Boraitha:  If  a  heathen  renders  the  wine  prohibited 
by  touch,  not  however,  in  the  presence  of  an  idol,  all  benefit  of 
it  is  forbidden.  But  R.  Jehudah  b.  Baba  and  R.  Jehudah  b. 
Bethira  say  it  is  allowed,  and  on  the  following  grounds:  In  the 
first  place,  because  the  act  was  done  not  in  the  presence  of  an 
idol,  and  secondly  because  the  Israelite  may  say  to  the  heathen: 
The  wine  is  not  your  ownership,  hence  you  cannot  make  it  for- 
bidden. Now,  though  we  do  not  agree  with  the  two  Jehudahs, 
the  inference  is  nevertheless  justified  that  the  Israelite  may 
make  the  heathen  pay. 

It  once  happened  that  the  bung  burst  out  of  the  hole  of 
a  cask  with  wine,  and  a  heathen  ran  by,  put  his  hand  upon  the 
bung-hole  to  stop  the  escape  of  the  wine.  Thereupon  said  R. 
Papa:  The  wine  above  the  bung  is  forbidden,  the  rest  is  allowed. 
R.  Papa  was  further  teaching:  The  wine  of  leather  bags  carried 
by  a  heathen  who  is  followed  by  a  supervising  Israelite,  is 
allowed  if  it  so  fills  the  bags  that  it  cannot  shake  at  all,  but  if 
not  so  full,  it  is  forbidden.     If,  however,  the  wine  be  in  open 


I30  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

pitchers,  the  converse  is  the  case,  because  out  of  a  full  pitcher 
the  wine  may  overflow  upon  the  hands  of  the  heathen,  and  then 
touch  back  the  wine  inside  the  pitcher,  while  with  the  pitcher 
that  is  not  full  this  cannot  be  feared.  R.  Ashi  maintains  that 
even  the  wine  in  a  leather  bag  that  is  not  full  cannot  be  made 
prohibited  by  shaking,  for  it  is  not  customary  to  offer  wine  by 
shaking.  If  the  heathen  put  wood  upon  the  grapes  in  the  press 
in  order  to  squeeze  the  wine  out  by  this  pressure,  R.  Papa  allows 
the  wine,  while  R.  Ashi,  according  to  others  R.  Simi  b.  Ashi, 
prohibits  it;  all,  however,  agree  in  that  the  wine  is  allowed 
when  the  wood  is  pressed  down  by  means  of  a  wheel,  for  the 
work  is  done  but  by  a  derivative  of  his  force,  but  when  the 
heathen  exerts  the  pressure  by  his  feet,  only  R.  Papa  allows, 
while  the  others  forbid  the  wine. 

Once  a  heathen  pressed  the  wine  by  means  of  a  wheel,  yet 
R.  Jacob  from  Nahar  Pekod  declared  the  wine  prohibited.  At 
another  time  a  cask  with  wine  happened  to  burst,  and  a  heathen 
was  holding  it  together  until  the  wine  was  emptied  into  another 
barrel;  Raphran  b.  Papa,  according  to  others  R.  Huna  b.  R. 
Jehoshua,  allowed  to  sell  the  wine  to  heathens.  It  was  prohib- 
ited to  drink  it,  because  the  cask  burst  lengthwise,  so  that  it 
was  necessary  to  hold  it  together,  but  if  it  had  burst  crosswise 
it  could  have  been  held  together  by  pressing  the  upper  part;  in 
this  case  the  wine  would  have  been  allowed  even  to  drink,  be- 
cause the  pressure  of  a  stone  could  have  done  the  same  service. 

Once  a  heathen  was  found  in  the  press  of  an  Israelite ;  though 
there  was  no  wine  in  it,  yet  it  was  moist,  and  the  question  came 
up  as  to  what  to  do  with  the  press?  R.  Ashi  decided  it  thus: 
If  the  humidity  of  the  press  was  so  great  that  an  object  could 
therein  become  so  moist  as  to  moisten  another  object,  the  press 
must  be  first  rinsed  with  water  and  then  scrubbed  with  ashes 
two  times,  while  by  a  smaller  degree  of  humidity  one  rinsing 
suffices. 

MISHNA  IX. :  A  heathen  standing  near  the  wine  reservoir 
renders  the  wine  forbidden,  provided  he  has  a  lien  on  it,  but 
not  otherwise.  When  a  heathen  falls  into  a  wine-reservoir  and  is 
then  brought  up  (dead),  or  when  a  heathen  measured  the  wine 
with  a  pipe,  dragged  therewith  a  hornet  out  of  the  wine,  or, 
finally,  tapped  his  hand  on  the  cask  against  the  ebullitions  of 
the  fermenting  wine — all  which  cases  have  actually  occurred — 
the  wine  should,  according  to  the  rabbis,  be  sold;  R,  Simeon 
allows  to  drink  it.     If  the  heathen,  while  enraged,  cast  the  cask 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  131 

into  the  reservoir,  as  it  once  happened,  the  sages  allowed  the 
wine. 

GEMARA:  Said  Samuel:  The  lien  spoken  of  in  the  Mishna 
must  be  had  on  the  wine  itself;  and  R.  Ashi  proved  this  by- 
quoting  another  Mishna,  which  says :  When  one  works  a  heath- 
en's wine  in  accordance  with  the  rules  of  cleanness  (so  that  he 
might  sell  it  to  Israelites),  leaves  it  then  in  the  premises  of  the 
heathen,  but  under  the  supervision  of  an  Israelite,  and  the 
heathen  writes  a  note  to  him  stating,  "  I  have  received  of  you 
money,"  the  wine  is  allowed;  if,  however,  the  affair  takes  place 
this  way:  The  Israelite  attempts  to  take  out  the  wine  and  the 
heathen  refuses  it  until  he  get  the  money,  which  case  once  oc- 
curred at  Beth-Shean,  the  sages  declare  this  wine  prohibited, 
because  it  is  yet  the  ownership  of  the  heathen.  But  if  the  lien 
had  been  on  the  Israelite's  property,  even  the  wine  included,  it 
does  not  matter. 

"  Wken  a  heathen  falls,'"  etc.  According  to  R.  Papa  this 
means  that  the  heathen  is  brought  up  dead,  otherwise  all  benefit 
of  the  wine  is  forbidden,  because  the  heathen  celebrates  his 
escape,  and  thanks  on  this  account  his  idol,  wherefore  the  wine 
is  considered  offered. 

"  When  a  heathen  measured  the  zvine  ivith  a  pipe,  etc.,  the 
rabbis  allow  to  sell  it,  R.  Simeon  also  to  drink  it."  Said  R.  Ada 
b.  Ahba:  Blessed  be  the  head  of  R.  Simeon  who,  unlike  the 
rabbis,  goes  to  extremes — viz:  If  he  prohibits,  he  prohibits  to 
derive  all  benefit  therefrom,  and  if  he  allows,  he  allows  it  even 
to  drink.  Said  R.  'Hisda:  I  was  told  by  Abba  b.  'Hannan  that 
so  said  Zera,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Simeon.  (Says 
the  Gemara):  After  all,  the  Halakha  does  not  prevail  with  him. 

MISHNA  X. :  If  an  Israelite,  who  had  cleansed  the  wine  of 
a  heathen,  left  it  in  the  latter's  premises,  in  a  house  opening 
into  a  public  ground,  in  a  town  where  heathens  and  Jews  live, 
the  wine  is  allowable;  but  if  there  live  only  heathens,  the  wine 
is  not  allowed,  unless  a  Jewish  watchman  take  care  of  it.  How- 
ever, the  watchman  must  not  continually  stay  there,  but  may 
go  and  come.  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  says:  All  heathen  premises 
are  of  the  same  account.  If  one  cleanses  the  wine  of  a  heathen, 
leaves  it  in  his  premises  (as  above),  and  the  latter  writes  him  a 
note  stating,  "  I  have  received  money  from  you,"  the  wine  is 
allowed.  But  if  the  case  be  such  that  when  the  Israelite  wants 
to  take  out  the  wine  the  heathen  refuses,  requiring  to  be  paid  first 
(as  it  once  occurred  at  Beth-Shean),  the  sages  prohibit  the  wine. 


132  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

GEMARA:  Why  should  the  Mishna  forbid  the  wine  in  a 
town  where  Jews  do  not  reside,  since  in  any  town  you  find  Jews 
coming  there  now  and  then  for  traffic?  Says  Samuel:  The 
Mishna  has  in  view  but  such  towns  that  are  provided  with  walls 
and  gates,  so  that  no  one  can  enter  it  without  special  permis- 
sion, and  the  heathen  is  thus  in  a  position  to  know  whether  or 
no  there  is  an  Israelite  in  town.  R.  Joseph  said:  It  suffices 
that  the  wine  be  so  kept  in  a  house  that  any  Israelite  could  see 
from  his  window  into  the  heathen's  yard,  and  the  house  must 
not  needs  be  opening  into  a  public  place.  In  like  manner  it  is 
sufficient  that  there  be  in  the  proximity  of  the  house  a  little 
elevation  where  people  are  wont  to  assemble,  or  that  a  date-tree 
be  there,  since  in  this  case  the  heathen  may  fear  lest  someone 
should  climb  up  the  tree  for  dates  and  descry  his  doings  in  the 
same  time;  but  if  the  top  of  the  tree  be  cut  off,  its  influence  is 
discussed  by  R.  Acha  and  Rabina,  the  one  saying  that  the  tree, 
now  that  it  bears  no  fruit,  exerts  no  influence  upon  the  heathen, 
who,  thinking  that  nobody  will  climb  it  up  now,  may  break  the 
seal  and  take  out  some  of  the  wine;  while  the  other  says:  Peo- 
ple are  still  now  and  then  climbing  upon  such  tree  in  order  to 
look  for  their  strayed  cattle,  and  hence  it  is  yet  fear-inspiring  to 
the  heathen. 

The  rabbis  taught:  When  an  Israelite  buys  or  rents  a  house 
in  the  courtyard  of  a  heathen,  where  also  an  Israelite  lives,  and 
puts  there  his  wine,  it  is  allowed  even  if  not  sealed  and  locked 
up.  But  if  the  other  Israelite  lives  in  the  same  town  only,  the 
wine  is  allowed  only  when  sealed  and  locked.  However,  if  a 
heathen  hires  Jews  to  prepare  wine  for  sale  to  Jews,  and  this 
wine  remains  in  the  premises  of  the  heathen,  a  Jew  living  in  the 
same  house  where  the  wine  is  kept,  it  is  allowed,  provided  it  be 
sealed  and  locked  by  a  Jew  who  should  himself  have  charge  of 
the  key  and  seal.  Said  R.  Johanan  to  him  who  cited  before 
him  this  Boraitha,  read  the  last  passage  thus:  The  wine  is 
allowed  even  when  not  sealed  and  locked,  provided  only  an 
Israelite  lives  in  the  same  house.  If,  however,  an  Israelite  lives 
in  the  same  city  but  not  in  the  same  yard,  the  wine  is  forbidden 
even  when  sealed  and  locked ;  so  says  R.  Meier,  while  the  rabbis 
say:  An  Israelite  must  either  sit  there  and  watch,  or  come  there 
at  certain  times.  The  question  now  arises,  to  which  case  the 
rabbis  refer,  as  there  are  four  cases  in  the  Boraitha?  To  assume 
that  they  refer  to  the  last  case  would  be  to  assume  a  redun- 
dance, since  R.  Mair  said  the  same;  nor  can  it  be  assumed  that 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  133 

they  refer  to  the  third  case,  where  the  wine,  when  sealed  and 
locked  by  a  Jew,  is  allowed ;  because,  as  R.  Johanan  allows  it 
even  when  not  sealed  and  locked,  there  would  be  no  reason  to 
account  for  the  exceptional  rigor  of  the  rabbis  in  this  case. 
Hence,  it  is  manifest  that  they  refer  to  the  second  case,  which 
allows  the  wine  put  up  in  the  house  of  a  heathen,  when  both  there 
lives  a  Jew  in  the  same  town  and  also  when  the  wine  is  sealed  and 
locked ;  and  it  is  here  that  the  rabbis  add  the  limitation  that  an 
Israelite  watch  the  wine,  or  come  to  it  at  certain  times.  But 
what  is  gained  by  the  last  point?  When  the  Jew  is  to  come 
there  only  at  certain  times,  the  heathen  will  know  it  and  find  his 
time  to  break  the  seal  and  do  what  he  pleases?  The  answer  is 
this:  We  must  assume  that  the  Jew  is  to  come  there  at  times 
and  not  at  certain  times,  so  that  the  heathen  will  know  nothing 
definite. 

"  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  says,  all  heathen  premises,"  etc.  The 
schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  What  does  R.  Simeon  in- 
tend with  this  doctrine,  to  make  the  regulations  of  wine  more 
rigorous  or  more  lenient?  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of 
Zeira,  the  latter  is  the  case,  while  R.  Na'hman  said  in  the  name 
of  the  same  authority  the  former  was  intended.  In  order  to 
make  R.  Jehudah's  opinion  plausible,  it  is  necessary  to  insert 
the  following  in  the  Mishna:  The  same  prohibition  is  imposed 
upon  wine  brought  into  the  house  of  another  heathen,  because 
of  fear  lest  the  latter  should  go  to  the  proprietor  and  say :  You 
are  free  to  come  to  my  house  and  do  with  your  wine  as  you 
please;  I  will  not  betray  you  provided,  however,  you  promise 
to  serve  me  in  the  same  way  in  case  I  will  have  Jews  prepare 
wine;  it  is  in  this  connection  that  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said: 
Are,  then,  all  premises  of  the  same  account?  We  see  that  if 
the  wine  is  left  in  the  premises  of  the  proprietor,  an  Israelite 
must  watch  it;  if,  however,  the  wine  is  stored  with  another 
heathen,  this  watch  is  not  requisite,  as  I  do  not  believe  that  the 
heathens  would  enter  such  mutual  agreements  with  one  another. 
On  the  other  hand,  in  order  to  make  R.  Na'hman's  view  of  R. 
Simeon's  position  plausible,  the  following  wording  must  be 
given  to  the  inserted  passage:  The  prohibition  is  only  then  in 
force  when  the  wine  is  left  in  the  premises  of  the  proprietor  with 
a  Jew  watching  it ;  but  if  the  wine  is  left  with  another  heathen, 
the  additional  watch  is  unnecessary,  as  we  do  not  believe  in  the 
mutual  agreement  of  the  heathens.  To  which  R.  Simeon  b. 
Elazar  says:  All  heathen  premises  account  alike,  hence  as  the 


134  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

watching  by  a  Jew  is  there  requisite,  it  is  so  here,  too,  for  I  fear, 
indeed,  that  the  heathen  may  enter  some  mutual  understanding. 
There  is  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  R.  Na'hman:  R.  Simeon 
b.  Elazar  says,  all  premises  of  heathens  are  of  the  same  account, 
for  we  fear  lest  they  deceive  us. 

It  once  happened  that  Israelites  bought  of  Parsik,  the  vice- 
roy, the  grapes  of  a  vineyard  in  order  to  prepare  wine  therefrom  ; 
they  then  left  the  wine  with  Parsik's  gardeners  without  having 
paid  for  it.  Hereupon  the  disciples  of  Rabha's  college  wanted 
to  allow  the  wine  on  the  ground  that  there  cannot  possibly  be 
a  mutual  agreement  between  the  viceroy  and  his  gardeners. 
Said  Rabha  to  them:  Just  in  this  case  there  is  much  to  fear, 
because  if  Parsik  wants  to  falsify  the  wine,  he  will  meet  no 
barrier. 

Once  a  few  casks  of  wine  belonging  to  an  Israelite  were  lying 
in  the  street,  and  a  heathen  was  found  standing  among  them ; 
Rabha,  upon  being  asked  what  is  to  be  done  with  the  wine, 
said:  If  this  man  is  known  to  be  a  thief,  the  wine  is  allowed,  for 
he  will  fear  to  touch  the  wine  in  the  open  street,  lest  he  be  sus- 
pected of  stealing  it;  but  if  he  is  an  honest  man  the  wine  is  for- 
bidden, because  of  the  reasonable  fear,  maybe  he  touched  it. 


CHAPTER   V. 

RULES   AND     REGULATIONS    CONCERNING    WAGES    AND    LIBATION    WINE. 

EFFECTS    OF    SUCH     WINE    WHEN    FALLING    ON    FRUIT   OR  MIXING 

WITH  OTHER  WINE. — UNDER  WHAT  CIRCUMSTANCES  WINE  MAY  BE 
LEFT  WITH  A  HEATHEN. — CONDITIONS  UNDER  WHICH  JEWISH  WINE 
IS  SOLD  TO  HEATHENS. — DETERMINATION  OF  QUANTITY  OF  LIBA- 
TION WINE  MIXED  WITH  OTHER  WINE. — HOW  VESSELS  OF  HEATHEN 
ARE    TO   BE    ALTERED    TO    MAKE    THEM    FIT    FOR    A    JEWISH    TABLE. 

MISHNA  /.  :  The  wages  of  a  Jewish  laborer  hired  by  a 
heathen  to  work  with  him  wine  for  libation  are  prohibited.  But 
if  he  was  hired  for  some  other  work  and  was  then  told :  Bring 
this  cask  of  offered  wine  from  one  place  to  another,  the  wages 
are  allowed.  If  a  heathen  hires  of  a  Jew  an  ass  to  carry  on  it 
such  wine,  the  reward  is  forbidden ;  if,  however,  he  hired  it  to 
sit  thereon,  it  is  allowed  even  if  he  had  with  him  his  wine-flask. 

GEMARA:  The  reason  why  the  wages  are  prohibited  is 
hardly  that  all  the  benefit  of  offered  wine  is  forbidden,  because 
the  following  speaks  against  such  a  reason — viz.  :  Although 
arlah  (the  fruit  growing  on  a  tree  within  the  first  three  years 
after  it  has  been  planted)  is  prohibited,  likewise  the  fruit  of  a 
field  sowed  in  a  vineyard  kelaiin  (variegated  seeds);  yet  if  one 
sells  these  fruits  and  with  the  money  thus  obtained  betroths 
himself  to  a  girl,  she  is  regarded  his  legitimate  wife.  Nor  can 
it  be  said  that  the  wages  follow  the  same  rules  with  the  wine, 
just  as  the  money  obtained  from  the  sale  of  an  idol  is  subject  to 
the  regulations  governing  the  latter;  because,  as  it  is  known,  the 
money  gotten  for  the  fruits  growing  on  the  Sabbathic  year  is 
subject  to  the  rules  of  the  fruits  themselves,  and  yet  we  learned 
that,  if  one  invites  the  laborer,  saying:  Take  this  dinar  and 
gather  herbs  for  me  to-day,  this  reward  is  forbidden ;  but  if  the 
invitation  is  made  thus :  Gather  for  me  herbs  to-day,  the  reward 
is  allowed  when  this  case  takes  place  on  the  Sabbathic  year. 
Hence,  wages  are  allowed  after  all!  Said  R.  Abuhu  in  the 
name  of  R.  Johanan :  This  is  a  fine  which  the  sages  find  neces- 
sary to  impose  upon  driver  and  offered  wine.  In  the  case  of 
wine,  as  said  above  in  the  Mishna,  and  in  the  case  of  drivers  in 
the  following  Boraitha:  The  reward  obtained  by  drivers  for 
transporting  fruits  grown  on  the  Sabbathic  year  is  considered 

135 


136  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Sabbathic.  Now,  what  does  this  mean :  The  reward  is  Sah- 
bathic?  It  cannot  possibly  mean  that  the  reward  is  made  in 
fruit  of  the  Sabbathic  year,  for  the  proprietor  of  the  fruit  would 
thus  meet  a  debt  with  fruit  which  is  by  law  allowed  [Levit. 
XXV.  6] :  "  For  food,"  but  not  to  traffic  with.  Neither  can  this 
expression  be  interpreted  to  mean :  The  reward  is  as  holy  as  the 
fruit  of  the  Sabbathic  year,  because  of  the  Mishna  cited  above: 
If  one  says:  Gather  for  me  fruit  to-day,  the  reward  is  allowed. 
Said  Abayi :  It  speaks  of  a  reward  paid  with  the  Sabbathic  fruit ; 
and  as  to  the  diflficulty  of  "  food  and  not  for  traffic  "  it  can  be 
answered  that  he  gives  him  the  fruit  as  a  present,  and  not  as 
reward,  as  we  find  a  similar  case  in  the  following  Mishna:  One 
must  not  say  to  his  neighbor:  Carry  this  fruit  for  me  to  Jeru- 
salem, of  which  take  a  part  as  your  reward;  but  he  may  say: 
Carry  it  to  be  eaten  in  Jerusalem,  and  there  they  present  each 
other  the  fruit  as  a  present.  Rabha,  however,  said :  It  means 
that  the  reward  becomes  holy  like  the  Sabbathic  fruit  itself,  and 
the  difficulty  that  it  is  allowed  to  a  laborer  is  not  considered, 
for  the  rabbis  do  not  care  to  fine  him  for  such  a  trifle. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  How  is  it  when  the 
heathen  hires  a  Jewish  laborer  to  prepare  wine  in  general?  Shall 
we  assume  that,  since  all  use  of  this  wine  is  prohibited  just  as  that 
of  offered  wine,  the  wages  are  by  implication  not  allowable,  or 
that  the  wine  in  general  is  not  so  rigorously  treated  by  reason 
of  its  differing  from  the  offered  wine  in  that  it  does  not  defile  an 
Israelite  by  touch,  while  the  latter  does  so,  and  hence,  that  the 
wages  in  this  case  be  allowed?  Come  and  hear!  A  heathen 
once  hired  a  Jewish  boatman  to  convey  for  him  some  wine  to 
a  certain  place  and  paid  him  for  the  labor  in  wheat.  The  laborer 
appeared  then  before  R.  'Hisda  asking  him  what  is  to  be  done 
with  the  wheat?  The  answer  was:  You  must  burn  it  and  bury 
the  ashes;  hence,  such  wages,  too,  are  prohibited.  The  disci- 
ples of  R.  Janai  were  wont  to  borrow  on  the  Sabbathic  year 
fruit  from  the  poor  and  to  pay  them  back  in  fruit  the  succeed- 
ing year.  R.  Johanan  was  interrogated  as  to  the  legitimacy  of 
this  act,  and  he  found  it  in  accord  with  the  law.* 

R.  Na'hman,  Ula,  Abimi  b.  Papa,  and  R.  Hyya  b.  Ammi  were 
once  sitting  together  and  discussing  the  following  point:  If  an 
Israelite  is  hired  to  break  the  casks  that  contained  offered  wine 

*  The  text  treats  here  of  the  question  as  to  whether  the  reward  of  a  harlot  is 
allowed  in  case  she  was  paid  after ;  which  we  deem  not  in  place  here  and  therefore 
omit  it. 


TRACT    ABUDA   ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  137 

of  which  some  remnant  may  now  flow  yet,  is  he  allowed  to 
receive  payment  for  his  work  or  not?  The  possible  reason  for 
a  negative  answer  is  that  the  laborer  desirous  to  get  work  wishes 
for  the  existence  of  whole  casks,  and  thereby  also  for  that  of  the 
prohibited  wine  left  therein ;  while  on  the  other  hand  the  reason 
for  a  positive  answer  is  that  he  by  his  labor  destroys  the  wine. 
Thereupon  decided  R.  Na'hman :  The  laborer  may  without  any 
scruples  break  the  casks  and  get  paid  therefor;  in  addition  to 
it,  he  may  yet  earn  the  blessing  of  Heaven !  The  following 
Boraitha  corroborates  R.  Nahman's  decision:  The  Israelite  is 
prohibited  from  assisting  a  heathen  in  ploughing  a  field  sowed 
with  kelaim  (variegated  seeds),  but  he  is  allowed  to  weed  out 
various  seeds  so  that  only  one  kind  be  left,  for  he  thereby 
diminishes  the  unallowed. 

At  some  other  time  the  same  sages  were  together  discussing 
the  question  as  to  whether  or  no  the  use  of  the  money  obtained 
by  a  heathen  from  the  sale  of  an  idol  is  all  forbidden  to  an 
Israelite  (just  as  it  is  in  case  the  Israelite  sells  an  idol)?  Said 
R.  Na'hman  :  It  seems  to  be  allowable,  because  once  there  came 
some  heathens  to  Rabba  b.  Abuhu  and  declared  themselves 
willing  to  embrace  Judaism,  whereupon  he  replied:  If  this  is 
your  intention,  it  is  incumbent  on  you  first  to  sell  out  all  you 
have,  for  as  soon  as  you  have  become  Israelites,  your  wine  and 
idols  are  prohibited  to  sell.  Whence  it  follows  that  they  are 
allowed,  even  after  they  become  Israelites,  to  use  the  money 
gotten  from  selling  the  idols  when  yet  heathens.  The  others 
objected  to  this  inference,  saying:  In  this  case  the  intention  of 
becoming  an  Israelite  renders  surely  their  idols  profaned.  Here- 
upon R.  Na'hman  recited  the  following  Boraitha:  If  a  heathen 
pays  his  debt  to  an  Israelite  in  money,  which  he  obtained  from 
the  sale  of  an  idol  or  offered  wine,  the  Israelite  is  allowed  to 
accept  it;  if,  however,  the  heathen  asks  his  creditor  to  wait 
until  after  he  has  sold  his  idol  or  offered  wine,  the  Israelite  is 
prohibited  to  accept  the  money.  Hence,  in  the  former  case, 
the  money  is  allowed.  And  why  is  it  forbidden  in  the  latter 
case?  Because,  said  R.  Sheshith,  the  Israelite  would  then  ap- 
parently wish  for  the  existence  of  a  prohibited  object  till  it  gets 
sold.  But  is  there  not  a  Mishna  that,  a  proselyte  and  a  heathen 
having  inherited  their  father,  a  heathen,  the  former  may  say: 
You  take  the  idols  and  I  the  money,  you  the  wine  and  I  the 
other  fruit  in  exchange ;  but  as  soon  as  an  object  enters  the  con- 
trol of  the  proselyte  all  exchange  is  forbidden?     Now,  you  see 


138  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

that,  though  the  proselyte  doubtless  wishes  for  the  existence  of 
the  prohibited  objects,  the  exchange  is  originally  allowed.  Said 
R.  Papa:  The  sages  treated  exceptionally  this  case  of  a  prose- 
lyte with  leniency  in  order  not  to  encourage  his  return  to  heath- 
endom. Yea,  there  is  a  Boraitha  to  this  effect :  The  decision 
in  favor  of  the  proselyte  is  limited  only  to  the  case  of  inherit- 
ance, but  does  not  concern  partnership. 

The  above-mentioned  sages  happened  to  be  once  more 
together  and  to  discuss  the  following  question :  Can  a  citizen- 
proselyte,  a  heathen  settled  down  in  the  land  of  Israel,  on  hav- 
ing taken  upon  himself  not  to  practise  idol-worship  only,  pro- 
fane an  idol,  or  only  an  actual  idol-worshipper  can  do  this? 
R.  Na'hman  said:  In  all  probability  the  latter  is  the  case. 
An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following  Tosephtha :  An 
Israelite  who  found  an  idol  in  the  market,  may,  before  taking 
possession  thereof,  ask  a  heathen  to  profane  it,  but  not  after  he 
had  taken  possession  of  it;  and  the  reason  is  that  the  sages  have 
established  a  rule  that  a  heathen  may  profane  his  own  idol  as 
well  as  that  of  his  neighbor  immaterial  whether  he  worships 
it  or  not.  Now  let  us  see  what  does  the  last  expression 
"  whether  he  worships  or  not  "  mean  ;  if  it  means  a  heathen,  it 
is  superfluous,  as  it  was  already  stated  that  a  heathen  may  pro- 
fane his  neighbor's  idol  although  he  has  not  worshipped  it;  we 
must  then  say  that  it  means  a  citizen-proselyte,  hence  the  latter 
can  profane?  Nay;  it  may  speak  only  of  a  heathen,  and  as  to 
the  apparently  superfluous  expression,  it  may  be  said  that  the 
first  part  speaks  of  the  idols  of  one  kind,  e.g.,  both  of  the  kind 
Peor  or  Markules,  while  the  last  part  has  in  view  two  different 
idols,  e.g.,  one  of  Peor  and  the  other  of  Markules,  and  neverthe- 
less the  heathen  may  profane  even  the  one  in  whose  worship  he 
does  not  believe.  Another  objection  was  raised  :  Who  is  called 
a  citizen-proselyte?  He  who  took  upon  himself  before  three 
scholars  not  to  practise  any  idol-worship,  so  said  R.  Mair; 
while  the  sages  define  him  to  be  one  who  binds  himself  to  ob- 
serve the  seven  commandments  accepted  by  the  descendants  of 
Noah.  According  to  some  anonymous  teachers,  such  proselyte 
is  only  he  who  accepts  all  the  commandments  of  the  Torah  ex- 
cept eating  the  meat  of  carcasses.  Such  a  proselyte  may  be  left 
alone  for  some  short  while  in  a  room  where  Jewish  wine  is  kept; 
however,  it  is  not  allowable  to  store  such  wine  in  his  house  even 
when  the  majority  of  the  city  inhabitants  be  Israelites.  He  may 
be  employed  as  watchman  of  such  wine  even  where  the  heathens 


TRACT   ABUDA   ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  139 

make  up  the  majority  of  the  population.  His  oil  is  subject  to 
the  same  regulations.  But  can  oil  be  prohibited  by  itself?  Nay; 
reverse  the  statement  and  read:  Wine  is  subject  to  the  same 
regulations  with  oil;  while  with  regard  to  all  other  things  this 
proselyte  is  on  equal  terms  with  the  heathen.  R.  Simeon,  how- 
ever, holds  that  the  wine  of  such  a  proselyte  is  regarded  as 
offered  wine.  According  to  others,  however,  R.  Simeon  allows 
the  wine  even  to  drink.  Now  that  this  Boraitha  declares  this 
proselyte  on  equal  terms  with  the  heathen  in  all  other  respects, 
it  is  indicated  that  he  can  profane  an  idol,  which  contradicts  R. 
Na'hman's  view.  Retorted  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  This  equali- 
zation refers  but  to  the  law  regulating  both  the  transferring  and 
renouncing  of  his  ownership  (explained  in  Erubin). 

R.  Jehudah  sent  once  a  present  to  the  heathen  Abidrana  on 
one  of  the  heathen  feast-days,  justifying  this  his  action  thus: 
I  know  that  Abidrana  does  not  worship  idols.  Said  to  him  R. 
Joseph:  Your  reasoning  appears  fallacious,  because  of  the  above- 
cited  Boraitha  that  he,  d, proselyte,  must  take  upon  himself  before 
three  scholars  to  renounce  all  idol-worship,  which  condition  is 
wanting  in  your  case.  Rejoined  R.  Jehudah :  This  Boraitha 
intends  but  to  say  that  this  one  condition  binds  the  Jewish  com- 
munity to  support  this  proselyte  in  case  he  becomes  poor. 
Thereupon  the  other  objected:  Has  not  Rabba  b.  b,  'Hana  said 
in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  that  a  citizen-proselyte  who  fails  to 
let  himself  circumcise  during  twelve  months  is  to  be  regarded  as 
a  heathen  heretic?  Accordingly,  you  should  not  have  given  a 
present  to  Abidrana,  who  is  not  circumcised.  Answered  R. 
Jehudah :  R.  Johanan  surely  meant  that  a  proselyte  who  fails 
to  keep  his  promise  to  be  circumcised  within  twelve  months  is 
a  heretic. 

Once  Rabha  wanted  to  give  on  a  heathen  feast-day  a  present 
to  the  heathen  Bar  Sheshach,  who  he  knew  was  no  idol-wor- 
shipper. But  when  he  came  into  his  house  he  saw  him  sitting 
in  a  bath  of  rosewater,  and  surrounded  by  indecent  and  dis- 
graceful girls.  Upon  noticing  Rabha,  the  heathen  exclaimed: 
Have  you  Jews  in  prospect  such  pleasures  in  your  paradise? 
And  Rabha  answered:  Much  better  than  these.  Do  you  really 
mean,  said  the  other,  that  there  are  greater  pleasures  than  this? 
Retorted  Rabha:  In  the  heat  of  all  your  voluptuousness  you 
can't  help  fearing  lest  the  king  disturb  you  and  mar  your  plea- 
sure; while  we  expect  to  be  free  from  such  fear  in  paradise! 
Well,  said  the  heathen,  if  others  do,  I,  for  my  part,  do  not  fear 


I40  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  king.  No  sooner  had  he  uttered  this  than  a  messenger 
came  from  the  sovereign  and  said  to  Bar  Sheshach:  Go  in  all 
haste  to  the  king,  as  he  wants  to  speak  to  you !  Then  Bar 
Sheshach,  addressing  himself  to  Rabha,  said:  May  the  eye  that 
wishes  to  see  evil  jump  out  of  its  orbit ;  whereupon  Rabha  said : 
Amen !  And  the  eye  of  Bar  Sheshach  jumped  out  immediately. 
R.  Papi  said  :  Rabha  should  have  applied  this  verse  in  answer  to 
Bar  Sheshach — viz.  [Ps.  xlv.  lo] :  "  Kings'  daughters  are  among 
those  dear  to  thee :  the  queen  standeth  on  thy  right  hand  in  fine 
gold  of  Ophir."  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  would  have  preferred 
this  verse  [Is.  Ixiv.  4] :  "  No  eye  had  seen  a  god  beside  thee, 
who  could  do  [the  like]  for  the  one  that  waiteth  for  him." 

"  But  if  he  was  hired  for  some  other  work,''  etc.  It  is  ap- 
parent from  here  that  the  wages  are  allowable  even  when  the 
laborer  had  been  ordered  to  carry  the  wine  before  he  finished 
the  other  work ;  and  yet  there  is  a  Tosephtha :  When  the  heathen 
tells  his  Jewish  laborer,  after  he  has  finished  his  day's  work,  to 
carry  a  cask  of  offered  wine  from  one  place  to  another,  the  wages 
are  allowed,  but  the  remuneration  for  the  carrying  is  not ;  but 
if  the  heathen  ordered  him  to  do  this  sometime  during  the 
day's  work,  the  whole  pay  is  forbidden.  Hence  this  appar- 
ently contradicts  the  Mishna?  Said  Abayi:  The  Mishna,  too, 
implies  the  same  limitation.  Rabha,  however,  interprets  the 
Mishna  to  allow  the  wages  even  when  the  carrying  was  done  in 
the  middle  of  the  other  work,  and  meets  the  apparent  contra- 
diction thus:  The  Tosephtha  teaches:  When  a  heathen  tells  his 
Jewish  laborer:  Carry  100  casks  from  this  to  that  place  and  I 
will  pay  you  100  perutoth,  and  it  was  then  found  that  ninety- 
nine  of  the  casks  were  with  oil  while  one  was  with  offered  wine, 
all  the  wages  are  prohibited,  for  it  is  the  last  forbidden  cask  that 
completes  the  claim  for  wages.  The  Mishna,  however,  intends 
to  teach  that,  when  the  laborer  works  per  cask,  he  is  allowed  to 
receive  the  wages  and  to  reject  the  pay  for  so  many  forbidden 
casks  he  had  to  carry.  This  exposition  of  the  subject  coincides 
with  the  following  Boraitha:  A  Jewish  laborer  hired  to  carry  100 
casks  among  which  one  was  found  to  contain  offered  wine  is 
prohibited  from  all  his  wages;  if,  however,  he  was  hired  to  be 
paid  per  each  cask,  he  should  cast  away  the  pay  for  this  one 
prohibited  cask,  while  the  other  pay  is  allowed. 

"  If  a  heathen  hires  of  a  few  an  ass,"  etc.  This  rule,  which 
is  obviously  implied  in  the  first  statement,  is  mentioned  by  the 
Mishna  merely  for  the  sake  of  its  second  part — viz.  :  If,  how- 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  141 

ever,  he  hired  it  in  order  to  sit  thereon,  the  reward  is  allowed 
even  when  he  had  along  with  him  the  wine-flask.* 

The  father  of  R.  A'ha  b.  R.  Ika,  who  was  a  winedealer, 
sold  once  wine  to  heathens.  He  had  to  bring  it  over  across  a 
river  and  empty  it  into  their  casks,  retaining  his  for  his  trouble. 
This  subject  was  brought  before  Abayi,  and  he  said:  What 
R.  A'ha's  father  is  doing  is  certainly  allowed,  for  the  wine  is 
not  prohibited  unless  already  in  the  casks  of  the  heathens. 

MISHNA  //.  :  If  offered  wine  be  poured  on  grapes,  they 
must  only  be  washed  and  are  allowed.  If,  however,  they  were 
cracked,  they  are  prohibited.  Again,  when  such  wine  be  poured 
on  dates  and  figs,  they  are  forbidden  if  the  wine  impart  them 
a  pleasant  flavor.  Bithus  b.  Zonan  brought  once  dried  figs  in 
a  ship,  and  a  cask  of  offered  wine  happened  to  burst,  the  wine 
spilling  upon  the  figs,  but  the  sages  who  were  asked  on  this 
point  declared  them  allowable.  The  rule  is:  A  prohibited  thing 
renders  another  one  forbidden  if  it  imparts  to  it  a  pleasant 
flavor,  but  if  not,  it  is  allowed,  e.g.,  vinegar  poured  over  grit. 

GEMARA:  The  decision  of  the  sages  in  the  case  of  Bithus 
is  apparently  in  contradiction  with  the  prohibition  immediately 
preceding  it.  The  explanation,  however,  is  that  the  Mishna  is 
not  complete,  and  must  read  as  follows:  If  the  wine  imparts 
them  a  good  flavor  they  are  forbidden  ;  but  when  it  causes  them 
to  become  insipid,  they  are  allowed;  which  latter  took  place  in 
the  case  of  Bithus. 

Once  such  wine  was  spilt  on  a  heap  of  wheat,  and  Rabha, 
when  asked  on  the  point,  allowed  to  sell  the  wheat  to  heathens 
and  to  use  the  money  thereof.  Rabba  b.  Levi  objected  to  this 
decision  by  reason  of  the  following:  When  a  linen  thread  is 
woven  into  a  woollen  cloth  or  vice  versa,  a  wool  thread  into  a 
linen  cloth,  the  Israelite  is  forbidden  to  make  thereof  either 
a  garment  or  a  saddle,  or  to  sell  it  to  heathens ;  he  is  allowed  to 
make  of  it  only  shrouds  for  the  dead.  That  these  things  are  not 
sellable  to  heathens,  can  be  accounted  for  only  by  the  assump- 
tion that  the  heathens  may  thereafter  resell  them  to  Israelites 
who,  not  knowing  that  there  is  a  prohibited  thread  in  the  cloth, 
will  make  garments  of  it.  Now,  then,  we  have  in  the  wheat 
a  perfectly  analogous  case.  Rabha,  on  hearing  the  objection, 
ordered  the  wheat  to  be  first  ground,  then  to  bake  of  its  flour 
bread,  which   may  be  sold  to  heathens,  provided  no   Israelite 


*  For  a  contradiction  to  this  from  a  Boraitha,  see  Middle  Gate. 


142  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

notices  it,  lest  he  might  buy  the  bread  of  the  heathens.  But 
again,  why  should  not  the  wheat  present  the  same  case  as  the 
grapes  of  the  Mishna,  which  must  be  only  washed  in  order  to 
be  allowed?  Because,  said  R.  Papa,  the  wheat  grain  has  a  slit 
in  the  middle  which  makes  it  similar  to  cracked  grapes.  Abayi 
and  Rabha  are  of  the  same  opinion:  When  old  prohibited  wine 
is  poured  on  grapes  and  they  get  therefrom  an  agreeable  taste, 
they  are  prohibited.  But  concerning  new  wine,  Abayi  prohibits 
all  the  grapes  as  soon  as  one  drop  fell  on  them ;  while  Rabha 
prohibits  them  not  until  after  so  much  wine  has  fallen  upon 
them  as  to  change  perceptibly  their  taste.  Abayi's  reason  is 
this:  All  objects  of  like  taste  belong,  he  believes,  to  one  class, 
and  as  soon  as  a  particle,  however  small,  of  the  prohibited  falls 
upon  an  object,  and  be  this  very  big,  it,  too,  becomes  prohibited 
(so,  e.g.,  a  drop  of  forbidden  wine  falling  into  a  cask  renders  the 
wine  therein  forbidden),  and  grapes  he  regards  of  the  one  class 
with  wine.  On  the  other  hand,  Rabha  takes  for  his  basis  of 
classification  not  the  taste  but  the  name  of  the  objects,  so  that 
homonymous  objects  will  render  each  other  prohibited  if  -^  of 
the  one  falls  into  \^  of  the  other,  when  a  perceptible  change  in 
taste  may  occur,  but  not  if  ^  falls  into  f^  or  more  of  the  other. 
In  the  case  when  beer-vinegar  was  intermixed  with  wine° 
vinegar,  or  oaten  yeast  with  wheat  yeast,  of  which  in  both  cases 
one  was  allowed  and  the  other  forbidden,  Abayi  prohibits  the 
whole  mixture  only  when  the  forbidden  ingredient  tastes  per- 
ceptibly, while  Rabha  would  prohibit  it  even  when  but  a  drop  of 
the  forbidden  fell  into  a  whole  cask  of  vinegar;  likewise  with  the 
yeast  Abayi  defends  his  position  by  his  theory:  As  the  ingredi- 
ents here  being  of  different  tastes  are  not  of  the  same  class,  the 
resulting  mixture  is  forbidden  only  when  the  prohibited  sub- 
stance is  discernible  by  taste.  Rabha,  on  the  other  hand,  recurs 
to  his  name-theory:  The  vinegars  and  so  the  yeasts  are  hom- 
onymous, hence  of  the  same  class,  consequently  a  drop  of  the 
prohibited  sufifices  to  render  the  whole  so.  Furthermore,  Abayi 
endeavors  to  justify  his  name-theory  by  the  following  argumen- 
tation. We  learn :  When  spices,  forbidden  with  the  same  pro- 
hibition, of  the  same  kind  but  of  three  different  names,  such  as, 
e.g.,  pepper,  white,  black  and  long,  or  when  spices  of  three  dif- 
ferent prohibitions  but  of  the  same  kind  and  name,  all  mix  in 
some  meal,  it  is  prohibited,  for  they  are  counted  together. 
Thereupon  said  'Hiskia:  This  Mishna  speaks  of  spices  possess- 
ing equal  properties  so  as  to  sweeten  the  meal,  when  they  can 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  143 

be  counted  together,  but  not  otherwise.  Now  you  see,  then, 
that  this,  'Hiskia's  explanation,  is  in  the  h'ght  of  my  consider- 
ations quite  plausible,  as  he  guides  himself  by  the  taste,  while 
viewed  from  Rabha's  standpoint  how  can  the  three  spices  be 
counted  together  now  that  each  has  a  different  name.  Here- 
upon Rabha  rejoined:  This  does  not  prove  your  opinion  at  all, 
since  this  Mishna  expresses  not  R.  'Hiskia's  view  but  that  of 
R.  Mair  of  the  following  Boraitha:  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the 
name  of  R.  Mair:  When  different  forbidden  things  mix  with 
one  that  is  allowed,  they  may  be  added  to  count  as  one  whole, 
for  it  reads  [Deut.  xiv.  3]:  "  Thou  shalt  not  eat  any  abomina- 
tion," etc.,  i.e.,  whatever  is  detestable  by  the  law,  is  forbidden 
to  eat.  Hence,  whatever  is  forbidden,  and  be  it  of  neither 
equal  name  nor  taste,  can,  according  to  R.  Mair,  be  counted 
together.  Concerning  wine  into  which  forbidden  vinegar  fell 
in,  so  that  its  taste  is  discernible  in  that  of  the  wine,  all  agree 
that  it  is  prohibited;  but  if  the  vinegar  is  not  discernible,  the 
wine  is  allowed.  In  the  case  when  prohibited  wine  mixed  in 
vinegar,  Abayi  forbids  latter  even  if  only  one  drop  fell  into  it, 
since  the  smell  of  the  wine  is  changed  when  in  proximity  with 
the  vinegar  and  it  assumes  that  of  the  latter,  hence,  it  is  as  if 
vinegar  fell  into  vinegar  and  makes  it  forbidden  even  by  a  drop. 
Rabha,  on  the  other  hand,  holds  that  only  then  is  the  vinegar 
forbidden  when  the  taste  of  the  wine  in  it  is  perceptible,  other- 
wise they  remain  two  separate  classes  even  if  the  smell  of  the 
wine  is  changed  to  that  of  vinegar.  Rabha  and  Abayi  said :  A 
heathen  may  put  his  nose  to  the  ventilatory  orifice  of  a  cask 
with  wine  in  order  to  smell  the  state  of  the  wine,  and  be  it  the 
wine  of  an  Israelite  it  is  not  rendered  prohibited  thereby.  An 
Israelite,  however,  is  not  allowed,  according  to  Abayi,  to  do  the 
like  on  the  wine  of  heathens,  its  smell,  like  itself,  being  prohib- 
ited; while  Rabha  allows  the  smell. 

' '  The  rule  is  :  a  prohibited  thing  renders  another  one  forbid- 
den,'' etc.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  This  rule 
is  the  prevailing  Halakha.  Furthermore,  the  grit  spoken  of  in 
the  Mishna  is  allowed  only  when  it  was  hot  at  the  time  the  for- 
bidden vinegar  fell  upon  it,  for  since  vinegar  imparts  a  good 
odor  to  cold  grit,  latter  is  prohibited  even  if  it  be  boiled  after 
in  order  to  eliminate  the  good  odor.  Rabin,  on  his  return  from 
Palestine,  said  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana,  quoting  R. 
Johanan  as  interpreting  the  Mishna  in  the  very  same  sense. 
R.  Dimi,  too,  quoted  R.  Johanan  to  the  same  effect,  adding 


144  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

yet  that  the  people  of  Ciporias  are  in  the  habit  of  preparing  on 
Fridays  a  meal  consisting  of  cold  grit  mixed  with  vinegar  and 
called  shichlaim.  Resh  Lakish  interprets  this  point  of  the 
Mishna  as  follows:  That  the  spoiling  of  taste  by  a  forbidden 
thing  leaves  the  mixture  allowed,  intends  to  teach  that  even  if 
this  bad  taste  has  been  subsequently  ameliorated  by  pepper, 
salt  or  other  spices,  the  mixture  remains  allowed. 

R.  Abuhu  says  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  A  forbidden 
object  dropped  into  a  food  and  both  visible  and  smellable 
therein,  renders  it  unallowable  to  eat;  whoever  eats  it  is  liable 
to  stripes,  provided,  however,  he  ate  of  the  forbidden  object 
the  size  of  an  olive  and  for  so  long  that  one  could  consume  in 
this  time  a  food  equivalent  in  size  to  four  eggs.  But  if  the  for- 
bidden object  be  only  tastable  and  not  visible,  the  food  is  pro- 
hibited, and  the  consumption  thereof  is  not  attended  with 
stripes.  On  the  other  hand,  if  this  object  heightens  the  already 
bad  savor  of  the  food,  it  is  allowed.  Why  does  not  R.  Johanan 
say:  If  this  object  renders  the  taste  of  the  food  insipid,  it  is 
allowed?  He  intends  to  indicate  that  the  intrinsic  bad  taste  of 
the  food  is  a  condition  for  its  being  allowed  after  the  adultera- 
tion with  a  forbidden  object,  even  when  its  taste  is  capable  of 
being  improved  upon  by  the  use  of  various  spices;  and  this 
shows  that  the  prevailing  Halakha  is  in  accordance  with  Resh 
Lakish.  R.  Kahana  said:  From  this  entire  discussion  it  is  evi- 
dent that  a  forbidden  object  dropped  into  a  food  and  rendering 
it  more  insipid,  leaves  it  allowed.  Hereupon  said  Abayi :  All 
the  participants  of  this  discussion  have  unambiguously  expressed 
their  respective  opinions,  with  the  exception  of  Resh  Lakish, 
who  only  interprets  the  Mishna,  reserving  to  himself  his  own 
opinion  on  the  point.  Now  that  the  Halakha  allows  the  food 
in  question,  it  is  manifest  that  there  were  some  sages  who 
thought  it  unallowable;  which  is,  indeed,  the  case,  as  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  R.  Mair  prohibits  a  food  or 
a  beverage  rendered  either  more  palatable  or  more  insipid  by  a 
forbidden  object  mixed  with  it,  while  R.  Simeon  prohibits  it 
only  when  rendered  more  palatable.  Said  Ula:  They  differ  only 
in  case  when  the  forbidden  object  renders  the  food  first  more 
palatable,  but  then  insipid ;  but  when  it  renders  it  immediately 
more  insipid,  all  agree  that  it  is  allowed.  R.  'Haga  objected  to 
Ula  from  the  following:  If  prohibited  wine  or  vinegar  poured 
upon  lentils  or  grits  respectively,  each  renders  the  food  forbid- 
den ;  R.  Simeon,  however,  allows  both  by  reason  of  their  be- 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  145 

coming  thereby  more  insipid.  Now,  this  former  opinion  can  be 
only  that  of  R.  Mair's,  who  prohibits  it  though  immediately  ren- 
dered insipid.  Ula  answered:  A  man  like  'Haga,  who  has  no 
notion  of  what  the  sages  ever  say,  ventures  upon  raising  objec- 
tions! The  Boraitha  adduced  by  him  speaks  of  cold  lentils  and 
cold  grits,  which  become  more  palatable  by  the  wine  or  vinegar, 
but  when  put  on  fire  they  become  more  insipid,  and  it  is  this  case 
that  R.  Mair  forbids.  R.  Johanan,  however,  said :  It  is  the 
case  where  a  forbidden  object  renders  a  food  more  insipid  right 
after  mixing  with  it,  that  R.  Mair  prohibts  and  R.  Simeon 
allows. 

It  once  happened  that  a  mouse  was  found  in  a  barrel  of  beer 
and  Rabh  prohibited  the  beer.  Whereupon  the  rabbis  said  in 
the  presence  of  R.  Sheshith:  From  this  decision  of  Rabh  we  see 
that  he  prohibits  anything  that  is  rendered  more  insipid  by  a 
forbidden  object  mixed  with  it.  Said  R.  Sheshith:  Nay;  this 
is  far  from  being  the  case;  this  decision  is  but  an  exceptional 
with  Rabh.  Indeed,  a  mouse  is  so  detestable  a  creature  that 
no  one  would  think  of  eating,  and  yet  the  law  specifically  pro- 
hibits it.  It  is  this  circumstance  that  induced  Rabh  to  the 
above  decision.  However,  R.  Simi  from  Nahardea  said:  A 
mouse  is  by  no  means  so  abominable  a  creature;  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  the  field-mouse  is  being  served  even  on  princely  tables,  but 
in  the  case  of  the  beer  it  was  a  house-mouse,  and  house-mice  are 
not  eaten.  Rabha  said  :  The  Halakha  is  that  a  forbidden  object 
rendering  the  food  more  insipid  leaves  it  allowed,  and  as  to 
Rabh,  his  reason  is  not  obvious;  if  he  thought  the  insipidness 
of  no  account,  the  Halakha  is  against  him,  or  maybe  he  thought 
that  the  mouse  contributes  toward  bettering  the  taste  of  the 
beer! 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  How  is  it  when  a 
mouse  falls  into  vinegar?  Said  R.  Hillel  to  R.  Ashi:  Such  an 
incident  occurred  in  the  presence  of  R.  Kahana  and  he  prohib- 
ited the  vinegar.  R.  Ashi  remarked:  This  decision  of  R. 
Kahana  hardly  admits  of  generalization,  for  the  mouse  there  was 
already  wholly  decomposed  and  he  rationally  feared  lest  some- 
thing of  the  mouse  would  be  consumed  together  with  the  vine- 
gar. Rabina  was  about  to  allow  the  vinegar,  provided  its  bulk 
was  100  fold  that  of  the  mouse,  basing  this  upon  the  same  law 
regarding  Teruma,  but  R.  Tachlipha  b.  Gisa  reminded  him  to 
draw  rather  the  comparison  with  the  spices  of  the  Teruma,  where 
a  portion  of  loi  fold  is  requisite.     According  to  the  calculation 


146  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

of  R.  Ashi  the  bulk  of  the  vinegar  in  order  to  be  allowed  must 
be  to  that  of  the  mouse  in  the  ratio  of  fifty  to  one.  R.  Samuel 
b.  Aika  finds  the  ratio  of  sixty  to  one  necessary  to  declare 
allowable  the  beer.  This  ratio  remains  as  the  prevailing  Halakha 
with  regard  to  all  contamination  by  forbidden  objects  {e.g.,  when 
into  a  pot  containing  sixty  pounds  of  allowed  meat  one  pound 
of  pork  meat  is  mixed  in,  the  whole  mixture  is  allowed  to  eat), 

MISHNA  ///. :  Wine  known  as  being  watched  is  allowed 
when  transported  from  place  to  place  by  a  heathen  and  an 
Israelite,  even  if  the  latter  absent  himself.  However,  if  he 
notifies  the  heathen  that  he  is  taking  leave,  and  be  it  only  for 
as  short  an  interval  as  to  enable  one  to  bore  a  hole,  close  it  up 
and  have  it  dried,  the  wine  is  forbidden.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gama- 
liel says:  This  interval  must  be  so  long,  that  he  could  open  the 
bunghole,  close  it  again  and  have  it  dried. 

When  an  Israelite  leaves  his  wine  on  the  wagon  or  boat  of 
a  heathen  and  himself  takes  a  shorter  road,  the  wine  is  allowed 
even  if  he  succeeded  to  reach  first  the  destination  and  to  have 
a  bath  meanwhile.  But  if  he  notified  the  heathen  of  his  leave, 
and  be  it  for  only  as  short  an  interval  as  to  enable  one  to  bore 
a  hole,  close  it,  and  have  it  dried,  the  wine  is  prohibited.  R. 
Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  says:  As  long  as  to  open  the  bunghole, 
close  it  and  have  it  dried.  When  an  Israelite  admits  a  heathen 
into  his  wine  store,  the  wine  is  allowed,  even  if  the  Israelite  is 
only  coming  in  and  out;  if,  however,  he  says  that  he  is  going 
to  absent  himself,  and  be  it  only  for  as  short  an  interval  as  to 
enable  one  to  bore  a  hole,  close  it  and  have  it  dried,  the  wine  is 
forbidden.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  says:  As  long  as  to  open 
the  bung,  close  it  again  and  have  it  dried. 

When  an  Israelite  dines  with  a  heathen  at  the  same  table, 
puts  a  bottle  of  wine  on  the  table  and  another  one  on  the  by-table 
{6Ekq)inoi)  and  goes  out,  what  is  on  the  table  is  prohibited,  what 
on  the  by-table  is  allowed ;  but  if  he  said  to  the  heathen :  You 
only  help  yourself  to  the  wine  and  drink,  the  bottle  on  the 
by-table  is  forbidden,  too.  If  he  leaves  open  casks  they  are  pro- 
hibited; closed  ones,  they  are  only  then  forbidden  when  the 
heathen  could  unbung  them,  close  again  and  have  them  dried. 

GEMARA:  "  Wme  known  as  beitig  watched,"  etc.  This 
seems  to  express  the  same  idea  of  the  following  Boraitha:  When 
he  who  accompanies  his  drivers  leaves  them  to  convey  the  clean 
objects  from  one  place  to  another,  himself  going  away  from 
them  even  n  whole  mile,  the  objects  remain  clean;  if,  however, 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  147 

he  told  them:  You  go  ahead  and  I  shall  follow  you,  the  objects 
are  unclean,  as  soon  as  he  loses  sight  thereof.  R.  Itz'hak  inter- 
preted this  Boraitha  to  mean  in  its  first  half  that  the  owner  had 
first  to  cleanse  both  his  driver  and  animals  with  water. 

' '  W/ien  an  Israelite  leaves  his  wine  in  the  wagon, ' '  etc.  These 
two  cases,  though  seemingly  identical,  are  providing  for  differ- 
ent  points.  Indeed,  the  latter  case  could  not  be  so  generalized 
as  to  include  the  former,  for  here  it  may  be  assumed  that  the 
heathen  is  under  the  influence  of  constant  fear  lest  the  propri- 
etor come  in  at  any  moment,  while  the  condition  on  the  wagon 
or  boat  is  different.  On  the  other  hand,  the  former  case  cannot 
include  the  other  one,  for  on  the  wagon  there  is  yet  a  possi- 
bility left  for  the  heathen  to  fear,  lest  he  be  overtaken  by  sur- 
prise and  looked  after  from  another  direction,  while  in  the  store 
he  could  presumably  lock  the  door,  thus  securing  himself  against 
surprise  and  doing  what  he  pleases.  Hence,  the  Mishna  states 
both  these  cases.  Rabba  b.  b.  'Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Jo- 
hanan:  The  Mishna  prohibits  the  wine  only  when  the  bunghole 
of  the  cask  was  closed  up  with  lime,  but  if  with  clay,  an  interval 
so  long  as  to  enable  the  heathen  to  open  the  hole,  close  it  again 
and  let  it  dry  is  necessary  to  prohibit  it.  Whereupon  it  was 
objected:  A  Boraitha  teaches  that  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  said 
to  the  sages:  When  the  heathen  broaches  the  cask  and  then 
closes  it  up  again,  this  is  recognizable  on  the  outward  as  well  as 
on  the  inner  surface  of  the  bung.  Now,  if  the  stufif  of  which 
the  bung  is  made  be  clay,  R.  Simeon's  idea  is  clear,  for  clay 
when  old  becomes  brighter  in  color,  wherefor  the  new  in  it  is 
easily  distinguishable  by  the  color,  because  the  new  clay  cannot 
combine  with  the  old  one,  since  the  hand  cannot  reach  the  inner 
sides.  But  if,  as  you  incline  to  think,  the  sages  speak  of  a  lime 
bung,  the  new  lime  is  not  recognized,  having  as  it  does  the  same 
color  as  the  old  one.  This  objection  was  met  thus:  R.  Simeon 
b.  Gamaliel,  ignorant  of  whether  the  sages  spoke  of  a  lime  and 
a  clay  bung,  was  endeavoring  to  show  that  even  in  the  case  of 
lime  a  change  produced  by  breaking  is  discernible  though  only 
on  the  inward  side ;  so  that  the  sages  answered  this  point,  con- 
tending that  so  long  as  it  is  not  recognizable  on  the  outward, 
the  wine  is  prohibited,  for  it  is  to  be  feared  that  the  inner  side 
of  the  bung  might  perchance  become  difficult  of  recognizing,  or 
that  it  was  altogether  forgotten  to  examine  it.  Said  Rabha:  It 
seems  that  the  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel, 
for  the  end  of  the  Mishna  gives  his  opinion  without  mentioning 


148  THE   BABYLONIAN  TALMUD. 

his  name.  And  Rabha  did  well  to  remind  of  this,  for  otherwise 
it  could  be  thought  that  the  whole  of  the  roncluding  paragraph 
{i.e.,  beginning  with  R.  Simeon  till  the  end)  was  said  by  R.  Simeon 
b.  Gamaliel.  But  now  that  the  Halakha  here  prevails  with  R. 
Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  i.e.,  that  there  is  no  fear  lest  the  heathen 
should  break  the  cask,  and  above  in  Chap.  II.  it  prevails  with 
R.  Eliezar,  i.e.,  the  cask  being  well  bunged,  there  is  no  fear  of 
the  heathen's  opening  it,  why  are  we  still  refraining  from  keep- 
ing our  wine  in  the  house  of  a  heathen?  The  answer  is  this  : 
Every  cask  has  a  small  orifice  for  ventilation,  and  it  is  feared 
lest  the  heathen  should  somehow  get  at  the  wine  through  it. 

Rabha  said:  Though  Israelites  that  come  into  the  house  of 
a  heathen  prostitute  may  not  resist  the  sexual  impulse,  yet  the 
wine  which  they  chance  to  bring  there  is  allowed,  for  they  will 
surely  prevent  the  prostitute  from  touching  it.  If,  however, 
heathens  visit  a  Jewish  prostitute,  her  wine  becomes  prohibited, 
for  it  is  safe  to  conclude  that  since  she  lowers  herself  so  much 
as  to  have  intercourse  with  heathens,  she  will  admit  them  to 
touch  her  wine,  too. 

A  heathen  once  happened  to  enter  the  wine-store  of  an 
Israelite,  where  he  himself  had  some  wine;  he  closed  the  door 
which  had,  however,  a  crevice,  and  through  it  he  was  seen  stand- 
ing among  the  Israelite's  casks.  Rabha  decided  this  case  thus: 
Only  the  casks  visible  through  the  crevice  are  allowed. 

Jewish  wine  was  once  stored  up  in  a  house  where  a  heathen 
and  an  Israelite  lived  in  the  lower  and  upper  floors  respectively. 
One  day  the  two,  alarmed  by  a  sudden  noise  in  the  street,  went 
out  to  see  what  was  the  matter;  the  heathen  was  then  the  first 
to  return,  and  locked  the  door.  In  this  case  Rabha  allowed  the 
wine,  for,  he  argued,  the  heathen  may  think  that  the  Israelite 
entered  first  and  might  surprise  him  any  minute.  In  another 
case  where  a  heathen  was  found  among  casks  of  Jewish  wine  at 
an  inn,  Rabha  decided  thus:  If  the  heathen  is  suspicious  of 
being  a  thief,  the  wine  is  allowed,  for  he  will  be  afraid  to  touch 
it;  but  if  this  is  not  the  case,  the  wine  is  forbidden,  for  once  he 
approached  it  he  must  have  touched  it. 

There  was  another  case  where  a  heathen  was  found  among 
the  casks  and  Rabha  decided  it  again  conditionally — viz.  :  If  the 
heathen  has  good  reasons  to  account  for  his  being  in  the  cellar 
the  wine  is  prohibited,  because  the  fear  of  bemg  surprised  is 
counterbalanced  by  the  said  reasons,  and  he  will  surely  touch 
the  wine;  but  if  be  has  no  such  reasons,  the  wine  is  allowed. 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  149 

because  of  his  fearing  to  be  surprised.  An  objection  was  raised 
from  the  following:  Unguarded  Jewish  wine  in  a  public  inn  in 
which  Israelites  always  come  and  go,  but  which  happened  to  be 
closed  so  that  it  became  inaccessible  to  Israelites;  or  wine  left 
in  the  inn  by  an  Israelite  who  requested  a  heathen  from  outside 
to  watch  it,  is  in  both  cases  forbidden.  In  the  latter  case  the 
heathen  has  sufficient  ground  to  believe  that  the  Israelite,  who 
of  his  own  accord  made  him  the  watchman  of  the  wine,  will  not 
return  so  soon,  so  that  there  is  ample  time  to  touch  the  wine; 
this  wine,  we  see,  is  indeed  forbidden,  though  the  heathen,  if 
taken  by  surprise,  would  have  no  reasons  to  account  for  his 
being  near  it !  Now,  Rabha  would  allow  the  wine  under  these 
conditions.  The  Boraitha,  then,  must,  therefore,  be  so  inter- 
preted as  to  mean  that  the  heathen  would  have  reasons  for 
approaching  the  wine. 

An  Israelite  and  a  heathen  were  once  at  an  inn  sitting  and 
drinking  wine.  As  the  hour  of  prayer  arrived,  the  Israelite 
went  to  pray,  leaving  the  wine  where  it  was.  Rabha  allowed 
this  wine  on  the  basis  of  the  heathen's  fearing  to  be  surprised. 

Once  an  Israelite  was  with  his  wine  in  a  boat  where  a  heathen, 
too,  embarked.  On  hearing  the  trumpet  announcing  the  ap- 
proach of  Sabbath,  the  Israelite  went  on  land  to  enjoy  there  the 
Sabbath  day.  Also  in  this  case  Rabha  allowed  the  wine  left 
alone  on  the  boat  with  the  heathen,  on  the  above  basis.  The 
possible  objection  here — viz. :  The  heathen,  knowing  that  the 
Israelite  will  not  on  Sabbath  come  back  to  the  boat,  will  have 
no  fear  of  being  surprised,  Rabha  meets  by  saying  that  the 
heathens  do  not  believe  the  Israelites  to  keep  the  Sabbath  so 
strictly,  and  he  corroborates  this  view  by  citing  the  words  of 
the  proselyte,  Issur,  who  told  him  that,  when  yet  a  heathen,  he 
was  sharing  in  the  general  conviction  of  all  other  heathens  that 
the  Jews  mGrely  pretend  to  observe  the  Sabbath  day,  because  if 
they  actually  kept  it,  there  would  be  found  the  pocket-books 
lost  in  the  streets,  since  the  Jews  are  prohibited  from  picking 
them  up  on  Sabbath.  However,  the  proselyte  went  on:  Since 
he  became  an  Israelite  he  has  learned  to  know  better  the  law 
laid  down  on  this  point  by  R.  Itz'hak — viz.  :  When  an  Israelite 
finds  on  Sabbath  a  pocket-book,  he  must  stop  for  a  while,  then 
move  on  for  a  distance  less  than  four  ells,  stop  again,  etc.,  till 
he  reaches  his  house,  where  he  may  leave  it,  and  this  is  the 
reason  why  there  are  no  pocket-books  in  the  streets  on  the  day 
of  Sabbath. 


I50  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

An  Israelite  once  happened  to  leave  his  wine  in  the  press. 
Meanwhile  a  heathen,  who  heard  the  roaring  of  a  lion,  ran  into 
the  press  among  the  casks  of  wine  for  his  life.  Rabha  allowed 
this  wine,  because  the  heathen  will  surely  think  that  some 
Israelite,  too,  may  chance  to  save  himself  here  from  the  lion, 
and  thus  take  him  by  surprise,  were  he  to  attempt  at  touching 
the  wine. 

In  the  city  of  Pumbeditha  thieves  once  intruded  into  a 
house,  and  it  was  afterward  feared  that  the  casks  of  wine  had 
been  opened  by  them.  As  it  was  not  certain  whether  the  thieves 
were  Jews  or  heathens,  the  case  was  brought  before  Rabha,  who 
allowed  the  wine  on  the  ground  that  the  majority  of  thieves  in, 
that  city  are  Jews.  In  a  similar  case  that  occurred  in  Nahardea* 
Samuel,  too,  allowed  the  wine. 

A  heathen  girl  was  once  found  among  the  casks  of  Jewish 
wine,  holding  in  her  hands  wine  froth.  Rabha  allowed  the 
wine,  for  she  might  have  gotten  the  froth  on  the  outside  of  the 
cask,  which,  though  now  no  longer  noticeable  there,  might  have 
come  out  before  by  chance. 

Soldiers  once  arrived  at  Nahardea  and  opened  quite  a  num- 
ber of  Jewish  casks.  R.  Dimi  tells  of  a  similar  case  that  occurred 
in  Palestine,  and  R.  Elazar  allowed  the  wine,  with  no  definite 
reasons,  however,  to  base  this  decision ;  he  either  guided  him- 
self by  the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezar,  who  holds  that  a  doubt  as  to 
whether  or  no  a  heathen  came  near  the  wine  found  open  is  a 
reason  to  allow  it;  or  he  assumed  that  the  majority  of  the 
soldiers  were  Jews. 

A  Jewish  woman,  dealing  in  wine,  once  left  her  keys  in 
charge  of  a  heathen,  and  the  question  came  up  as  to  whether 
her  wine  she  has  in  the  tavern  is  allowed?  Said  R.  Itz'hak  in 
the  name  of  R.  Elazar:  A  similar  case  was  once  cited  before  the 
sages  assembled  in  college,  and  they  allowed  the  wine;  because 
entrusting  one  with  the  taking  care  of  the  key  by  no  means 
allows  him  into  the  room.  Abayi  said :  A  like  decision  is  pro- 
nounced in  the  following  Boraitha:  When  one  leaves  to  the  care 
of  an  ignoramus  the  keys  of  his  barn  where  fruit  is  stored  up, 
the  fruit  is  not  defiled,  because  the  keeper  of  the  key  is  only 
appointed  to  watch  the  key.  It  is  thus  obvious  that,  since  in 
the  case  of  an  ignoramus  who  is  ignorant  of  the  rules  regarding 
cleanness  the  fruit  is  none  the  less  allowed,  the  more  so  in 
case  of  the  wine.  It  must,  moreover,  be  concluded  from  here 
that  the  provisions  of  wine  are  not   so  stringent  as  those  of 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  151 

cleanness.  The  like  was,  indeed,  taught,  as  follows:  When  a 
Jewish  scholar  lives  in  the  same  house  with  an  ignoramus,  each 
having  his  own  courtyard  separated  from  the  other's  by  a  low 
partition,  so  that  one  can  look  over  into  the  other  one's  yard, 
and  the  scholar  stores  up  in  his  yard  something  capable  of  being 
defiled,  and  goes  away,  these  things  are  rendered  unclean  on  the 
assumption  that  his  ignorant  neighbor  has  touched  them.  But 
if  the  scholar's  neighbor  is  a  heathen  and  the  former  deposited 
wine  in  his  own  yard,  this  is,  according  to  Rabh,  allowed.  R. 
Johanan,  however,  holds  that  the  former,  too,  remains  clean. 

MISHNA  IV.:  When  an  army  enters  a  town  in  time  of 
peace,  the  open  wine-casks  are  forbidden,  the  closed  ones  are 
allowed ;  but  if  in  time  of  war,  both  are  allowed,  for  there  is  no 
leisure  then  to  make  libations. 

GEMARA:  This  Mishna  was  contradicted  from  the  follow- 
ing: When  a  city  is  conquered  by  a  besieging  army,  the  wives 
of  the  priests  are  prohibited  to  their  husbands.  Whence  it  fol- 
lows that  the  soldiers  find  time  for  debauchery.  Thereupon 
replied  R.  Mari  that  they  do  not  find  time  for  offering  wine, 
but  they  find  it  for  satisfying  their  voluptuous  inclinations. 

MISHNA  V. :  Artisans  who  are  offered  by  a  heathen  a  cask 
of  offered  wine  as  their  remuneration,  are  allowed  to  ask  of  him 
its  worth  in  money ;  if,  however,  the  wine  has  already  entered 
their  possession,  they  are  forbidden  to  ask  it. 

GEMARA:  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  A  Jew 
may  say  to  a  heathen.  Go  and  pay  for  me  the  government  taxes, 
without  becoming  liable,  even  if  the  heathen  gave  to  the  treasury 
wine  instead  of  money.  The  following  Boraitha  was,  however, 
adduced  as  objecting  to  this  view:  A  Jew  is  not  allowed  to  ask 
a  heathen  :  Go  and  gratify  forme  this  or  that  officer.  Hereupon 
Rabh  answered:  The  two  cases  are  incomparable;  /allow  a  Jew 
to  pay  his  taxes  through  a  heathen,  while  the  Boraitha  prohibits 
him  from  asking  the  heathen  to  do  such  a  thing  for  which  doing 
the  Jew  is  himself  responsible. 

MISHNA  VI. :  He  who  sells  his  wine  to  a  heathen  is  allowed 
to  use  the  money,  provided  he  has  fixed  the  price  before  meas- 
uring the  wine,  but  if  he  had  first  measured  out  and  then  de- 
termined the  price,  the  money  is  forbidden. 

GEMARA:  Amemersaid:  The  law  governing  the  transition 
of  title  in  an  object  with  the  object  itself  extends  to  non-Israel- 
ites as  well ;  instance  the  Persians,  who  are  in  the  habit  of  send- 
ing presents  to  one  another;  they  can  never  get  back  the  present 


152  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

which  once  reached  the  possession  of  the  other  one,  since  ex 
facto  the  title  passes  to  the  latter  and  the  present  is  regarded 
his  ownership.  R.  Ashi,  however,  questioned  this  positive  ex- 
tension of  the  law,  and  rejected  the  adduced  instance  as  not  con- 
vincing, because  the  fact  that  the  Persians  do  not  return  pres- 
ents is  due  merely  to  the  pride  they  take  in  not  asking  back 
whatever  they  have  once  given  away  (but  if  they  were  asking  it 
back,  it  would  have  to  be  returned).  This  view  can  be  further 
substantiated  by  the  following:  Rabh  was  instructing  the  Jew- 
ish winesellers  to  take  of  the  heathen  the  money  before  giving 
him  the  wine,  and  to  rather  lend  him  money  for  which  he  might 
buy  his  wine,  than  to  give  him  wine  on  credit,  for  by  the  fact 
of  getting  the  wine  he  does  not  yet  obtain  title  therein,  hence, 
he  renders  it  as  Jewish  wine  unallowable  for  use.  This  shows 
convincingly  that  the  law  mentioned  at  the  outset  is  not  ex- 
tended to  non-Israelites.  Thereupon  it  was  further  argued  that 
Rabh  would  prohibit  the  wine  only  when  it  has  been  measured 
out  to  the  heathen  in  his  vessels,  which  fact,  apart  from  the 
question  of  ownership,  renders  of  itself  the  wine  forbidden. 
But,  was  again  contended,  admitting  this  argument,  we  can 
none  the  less  say  that  the  question  of  ownership  is  concerned 
here — viz. :  The  wine  becomes  unallowable  as  soon  as  it  reaches 
the  bottom  of  the  heathen's  vessel,  but  it  becomes  his  property 
as  soon  as  the  Israelite  begins  to  pour  it,  i.e.,  before  it  reaches 
the  bottom  of  the  heathen's  vessel  and  when  it  is  yet  allowed, 
and  still  Rabh  instructs  the  wineseller  to  take  the  movioy  first. 
Whence  it  may  be  inferred  that  the  flow  is  considered  a  con- 
necting link. 

Shall  we  assume  that  Rabh  told  the  Jewish  winedealears  to 
have  their  heathen  customers  pay  in  advance,  because  he  holds 
that  the  jet  between  the  two  vessels  unites  them  so  as  to  be  re- 
garded one,  wherefore  the  wine  becomes  forbidden  as  soon  as 
the  first  drop  of  it  touches  the  heathen's  vessel  ?  However,  the 
adduced  is  not  at  all  evidence  that  the  said  law  is  not  extended 
to  the  non-Jews,  for  if  the  heathen  kept  the  vessel  in  his  hand 
while  the  Isrealite  is  pouring  Rabh  would  not  prohibit  the 
money,  as  he  prohibits  only  when  the  vessel  stands  on  the 
ground  while  the  pouring  is  being  done.  It  can,  however,  be 
shown  that,  notwithstanding  this,  it  is  evidence  against  the  ex- 
tension of  the  said  law.  For,  the  wine  is  the  heathen's  property 
as  soon  as  it  enters  his  vessel,  and  yet  it  is  not  forbidden,  unless 
he  touches  it ;  and  the  Israelite  would  be  allowed  to  take  the 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  153 

money  also  after,  were  this  law  extended  to  the  non-Jews,  too. 
Now  that  Rabh  requires  the  payment  to  be  made  in  advance,  it 
is  clearly  shown  that  the  law  is  not  extended  beyond  the  Jews. 

Or  shall  we  assume  that  Rabh  holds  that  so  long  as  the  ob- 
ject sold  is  in  the  vendors'  house,  though  in  the  purchasers'  ves- 
sel, it  is  not  regarded  as  received  until  after  the  purchaser  takes 
it  into  his  hand  ?  But  this  would  speak  neither  for  nor  against 
the  extension  of  the  law.  The  fact  is  that  Rabh  requires  pay- 
ment in  advance  for  an  entirely  different  reason,  viz. :  he  fears 
lest  the  vessel  brought  by  the  heathen  to  the  Israelite  have  some 
wine  drops  on  its  brim,  so  that  as  soon  as  the  wine  poured  in 
touches  them  it  gets  all  prohibited. 

If  we  admit  this  to  be  the  case,  it  would  seem  that  Rabh 
differs  with  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  who  said :  When  forbidden 
wine  is  entered  into  allowed  one,  it  is  not  allowed  to  drink,  but 
it  is  allowed  to  sell  it  and  derive  benefit  from  its  money,  except- 
ing however  the  worth  of  the  admixed  forbidden  wine,  which 
should  be  cast  into  the  sea.  Nay,  Rabh  does  not  differ  with, 
but  holds  that  R.  Simeon  allows  the  benefit  of  the  wine  only 
when  there  was  mixed  among  many  casks  one  of  forbidden  wine; 
then  all  casks  may  be  sold  and  the  worth  of  the  one  forbidden 
should  be  cast  into  the  sea:  but  if  wine  is  mixed  with  wine,  also 
he  prohibits  all  benefit  thereof. 

The  following  objection  was  raised  against  Amemer:  When 
an  Israelite  buys  of  a  heathen  old  silver  where  he  finds  an  idol, 
he  should,  upon  receiving  title  in,  and  paying  money  for,  the 
silver,  throw  the  idol  into  the  sea;  if,  however,  he  has  not  yet 
paid  the  money  for,  though  already  received,  the  silver,  he 
should  return  the  same,  saying:  I  do  not  buy  it.  Now,  if  the 
law  were  extended  to  non-Jews,  how  could  here  the  Israelite  re- 
turn the  silver  already  received  by  him  ?  Said  Abayi :  This  is 
no  objection,  as  in  this  case  the  transaction  is  made  merely  by 
error,  the  Israelite  believing  all  the  time  that  he  receives  old 
silver  and  not  an  idol;  hence,  as  he  had  not  in  mind  to  buy  an 
idol,  he  may  return  it.  But,  rejoined  Rabha,  if  you  consider 
this  but  an  erroneous  transaction,  why  should  the  Israelite  cast 
the  idol  into  the  sea,  once  he  has  paid  the  money  ?  Why  should 
he  not  rather  return  it  also  here  and  disclose  the  error  ?  The 
answer  is  that  the  Israelite  may,  indeed,  regard  the  transaction 
erroneous,  but  lest  it  should  appear  as  if  the  Israelite  is  getting 
money  for  an  idol,  the  sages  prohibited  him  to  return  it. 

Mar,  the  elder  son  of  R.  'Hisda,  said  to  R.  Ashi:  But  it  is 


154  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

expressly  stated  in  the  Mishna  that  if  one  sells  his  wine  to  a 
heathen  and  has  determined  the  price  before  he  measures  out 
the  wine,  the  money  is  allowed.  Now,  if  according  to  your 
opinion  the  foregoing  law  is  not  extended  to  non-Israelites,  how 
should  we  understand  this  Mishna  ?  Here  of  necessity  the  wine 
would  have  to  be  considered  the'  Jew's  property,  until  after  he 
has  received  the  money;  but  as  the  wine  becomes  prohibited 
when  touched  by  the  heathen,  the  Jew  should  not  be  allowed  to 
take  the  money  therefor  ?  Hence  we  must  say  that  the  law  is 
extended,  and  the  wine  (of  the  Mishna)  is  regarded  property  of 
the  heathen  as  soon  as  he  has  received  it,  so  that  by  touching  it 
he  renders  prohibited  his  property,  and  therefore  the  Jew  is 
allowed  to  take  the  money.  Hereupon  said  R.  Ashi:  The 
Mishna  may  be  understood  also  without  your  explanation,  viz. : 
He  had  received  the  money  before  the  heathen  took  possession 
of  the  wine.  But,  retorted  the  other,  if  so,  how  is  the  conclud- 
ing sentence  of  the  Mishna  to  be  understood,  viz. :  If  he  had 
measured  out  the  wine  before  he  determined  the  price,  the  bene- 
fit of  the  money  is  forbidden?  Said  R.  Ashi:  And  according 
to  your  opinion  the  wine  belongs  to  the  heathen  as  soon  as  he 
has  received  it,  why  then  is  here  the  money  forbidden  ?  You 
see  then  that  the  main  point  here  is  the  fixing  of  the  price.  It 
is  namely  the  fixing  of  the  price  that  conditions  the  passing  of 
the  title:  if  the  price  was  fixed  before  the  measuring,  the  wine 
is  the  heathen's  and  its  money  is,  therefore,  allowed;  but  if 
after,  it  is  not  yet  the  heathen's  and  its  money  is  forbidden. 

Said  Rabina  to  R.  Ashi:  Come  and  hear  what  R.  'Hyyab. 
Aba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  if  a  descendant  of  Noah 
steals  an  object  worth  even  less  than  a  peruia,  his  sentence  is 
death,  and  the  law  of  returning  (the  stolen)  is  not  applied  here. 
Now,  why  is  this  law  not  applied  here  ?  presumably  because  the 
object  in  question  is  of  so  little  value  that  no  one  will  care  to 
require  it.  Assuming  now  that  the  previously  discussed  law  is 
not  extended  to  non-Israelites,  why  should  a  descendant  of 
Noah  be  subject  to  capital  punishment  for  stealing  from  a  Jew, 
when  the  object  is  here  always  to  be  regarded  as  remaining  the 
property  of  the  Jew  ?  Hereupon  said  R.  Ashi:  It  is  so  indeed, 
and  he  is  not  put  to  death  for  the  theft,  but  for  his  intention  to 
kill  the  Jew  if  he  attempted  to  resist.  Retorted  Rabina:  If 
such  be  the  case,  how  do  you  understand  the  non-applicability 
in  this  case  of  the  law  of  returning  ?  And  he  answered :  As  the 
descendant  of  Noah  causes  by  said  intention  a  state  which  he 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  155 

can  neither  annul  nor  reward,  the  said  law  is  not  appHcable  here. 
(Says  the  Gemara):  If  so,  how  is  to  be  understood  the  last  part 
that  when  his  comrade  robs  from  the  first  thief  the  stolen  object, 
he  is  to  be  put  to  death ;  now,  according  to  your  opinion,  the 
second  robber  who  has  nothing  to  do  here  with  the  Jew,  should 
not  be  put  to  death!  Hence  it  is  shown  that  the  law  regarding 
the  passing  of  title  in  an  object  (by  merely  touching  it)  does 
extend  to  non-Israelites. 

Once  an  Israelite  said  to  his  neighbor:  When  I  make  up  my 
mind  to  sell  this  field  I  will  sell  it  to  you.  Later  on  he  sold  it 
to  a  third  party.  R.  Joseph  decided  that  the  first  one  is  entitled 
to  the  field,  provided  he  gives  the  same  price  offered  by  the 
other  purchaser.  Abayi,  however,  disputed  this  decision  on  the 
ground  that  the  owner  did  not  fix  a  price  when  making  the 
promise  to  the  first  party;  and,  as  it  is  evident  from  our  Mishna, 
a  sale  is  determined  by  the  fixing  of  the  price,  I  should  like  to 
know  if  the  Mishna  concerns  itself  only  with  wine  because  of  its 
being  very  rigorous,  or  also  with  all  other  sales?  Come  and 
hear.  Aidi  b.  Abin  said:  A  case  similar  to  that  of  the  fore- 
going sale  of  the  field  was  once  brought  up  before  R.  'Hisda, 
and  he  consulted  R.  Huna  about  it.  R.  Huna  decided  it  from 
the  following  Mishna:  When  one  brings  to  market  fruit  on  ani- 
mals or  men,  and  a  purchaser,  asking  him  to  convey  this  fruit 
to  his  house,  himself  leads  the  men  or  animals  with  the  fruit  to 
his  house,  the  fruit  is  not  yet  thereby  considered  his  own,  and 
it  is  immaterial  whether  the  price  was  determined  upon  before 
or  after  the  measuring  of  the  fruit.  The  two,  purchaser  and 
vendor,  may  yet  withdraw.  But  if  the  fruit  was  unloaded  and 
carried  into  the  house,  the  following  conditions  are  determining: 
If  the  price  had  been  fixed  before  the  measuring  began,  the  sale 
is  a  sale  and  neither  vendor  nor  purchaser  can  withdraw;  if, 
however,  the  measuring  takes  place  before  the  fixing  of  the 
price,  either  party  may  nullify  the  transaction.  It  is  thus  obvi- 
ous that  (the  time  of)  fixing  the  price  is  a  condition  precedent 
to  a  valid  transaction. 

An  Israelite  once  said  to  his  neighbor:  When  I  make  up  my 
mind  to  sell  this  field,  I  will  sell  it  to  you  for  a  hundred  zuz. 
Sometime  later  he  sold  it  to  another  one  for  120  zuz,  and  R. 
Kahana  decided  the  case  in  favor  of  the  first  party  (to  whom  the 
owner  made  the  promise).  R.  Jacob  from  Naharpakod  disputed 
this  decision,  contending  that  the  owner,  while  making  his 
promise,  had  no  desire  yet  to  sell  the  field ;  it  was  only  the  high 


156  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

price  of  120  that  induced  him  to  the  sale,  while  for  a  hundred 
zuz  he  would  not  sell  it  yet.  And  the  Halakha  prevails  with 
R.  Jacob  from  Naharpakod;  e.g.,  if  one  offers  to  sell  to  his 
fellowman  an  article  for  a  price  estimated  by  three  people  and 
then  two  of  them  find  the  article  to  be  worth  100  zuz  and  the 
third  estimated  it  at  120  zuz,  the  estimate  of  the  two  prevails. 
But  if  the  condition  of  the  offerer  was  that  the  price  be  deter- 
mined by  three  people,  all  the  three  must  agree  in  their  deter- 
mination of  the  price.  (The  reason  of  this  distinction  is  that  in 
the  former  case  the  three  persons  who  are  to  estimate  constitute 
a  jury,  and  hence  the  majority  rules,  while  in  the  latter  case  the 
three  are  to  determine  the  price,  which  can  be  done  by  persons 
not  on  the  jury,  and  hence  the  determination  must  be  unanim- 
ous.) However,  if  the  offerer  put  up  the  condition  that  the 
price  of  the  article  be  either  estimated  or  determined  hy  four y 
unanimity  is  a  requisite  in  both  the  cases  (because  by  leaving 
the  matter  to  four  people  the  vendor  clearly  indicates  that  he 
does  not  want  a  jury,  as  a  jury  never  consists  of  four).  Again, 
if  the  vendor  after  empowering  three  men  to  estimate  the  article 
refuses  afterward  to  abide  by  their  estimate,  requiring  to  choose 
another  three  men  who,  he  thinks,  better  understand  the  value 
of  such  articles,  R.  Papa  says:  He  has  the  right  to  do  so,  while 
R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua  denies  him  such  right  on  the  ground  that 
with  such  a  right  the  vendor  would  be  enabled  to  drag  the  trans- 
action ad  infinitum.  And  the  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Huna 
b.  R.  Jehoshua. 

MISHNA  Vn.  :  If  the  funnel  was  first  used  to  measure 
through  it  into  the  heathen's  flask  and  then  into  that  of  an 
Israelite,  the  wine  of  the  latter  is  forbidden  when  there  has  been 
left  in  the  funnel  a  drop  or  so  from  the  heathen's  wine.  Fur- 
thermore, wine  left  in  the  vessel  after  some  of  it  has  been  poured 
into  a  heathen's  vessel,  is  allowed,  but  the  wine  poured  out  is 
forbidden. 

GEMARA:  An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following 
Mishna:  The  jet  formed  by  the  pouring,  the  streaming  flow  and 
the  moisture  form  no  connecting  link  for  either  defiling  or  puri- 
fication, while  a  cellar  does  form  a  connection  for  both;  and 
according  to  R.  Huna  the  jet,  etc.,  form  also  such  a  connection 
with  regard  to  wine. 

R.  'Hisda  once  said  to  the  Jewish  wine-dealers:  When  pour- 
ing your  wine  into  the  cask  of  a  heathen,  you  either  do  it  ab- 
ruptly, bending  each  time  your  vessel  backward,  or  do  it  all  at 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  157 

once — all  this  in  order  that  the  jet  may  not  connect  the  two 
vessels.  Rabha  said  to  the  wine-pourers:  Do  not  allow  a 
heathen  to  assist  you  in  pouring,  for  it  may  happen  that 
a  heathen,  supporting  all  alone  a  vessel,  would  empty  its  con- 
tents without  the  aid  of  the  Israelite,  and  this  would  render  the 
thus  emptied  wine  forbidden. 

An  Israelite  was  once  emptying  wine  from  one  cask  to  an- 
other by  means  of  a  siphon,  when  a  heathen  came  and  touched 
the  siphon.  Rabha  prohibited  the  wine  in  both  casks.  Here- 
upon R.  Papa,  according  to  others  R.  Ada  b.  Mathna,  or  to 
still  others,  Rabina,  said  to  Rabha:  Shall  we  assume  that  the 
jet  forms  a  connection,  and  that  on  this  your  decision  is  based? 
And  the  answer  was:  Nay;  this  case  is  of  a  different  nature; 
the  heathen's  touching  the  syphon  is  equivalent  to  his  touching 
the  cask  itself.  Mar  Zutra  b.  R.  Na'hman  said :  An  Israelite 
may  drink  with  a  heathen  from  one  decanter  called  kanishkanin 
(having  several  pipes),  provided  the  former  is  the  first  to  stop 
drinking;  for  if  the  heathen  were  the  first  to  stop,  the  wine  left 
in  the  pipe  would  flow  back  into  the  decanter  and  render  un- 
allowed the  whole  wine  therein.  Rabha  b.  R.  Huna,  when  at  the 
house  of  the  Exilearch,  said  the  same,  and  according  to  others, 
he  himself  drank  from  a  kanishkanin. 

MISHNA  VIIL:  Devoted  wine  is  prohibited  and  renders 
unallowable  even  by  a  minimal  quantity;  the  same  is  the  case 
with  devoted  wine  or  water  mixed  with  other  wine  or  water 
respectively,  and  be  it  in  a  minimal  quantity,  likewise  wine  with 
water  or  vice  versa,  provided  the  quantity  be  such  as  to  impart 
a  flavor  to  other  ingredients.  This  is  the  rule:  When  the  two 
ingredients  are  of  the  same  kind,  a  minimal  quantity  suffices; 
if,  however,  they  are  of  various  kinds,  the  imparting  of  flavor 
determines. 

GEMARA:  On  his  return  from  Palestine,  R.  Dimi  said  in 
the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  When  an  Israelite  empties  prohibited 
wine  into  a  reservoir  with  allowed  wine  even  for  as  long  a  time 
as  the  entire  day,  the  whole  of  the  wine  is  allowable,  because 
the  allowed  wine  of  the  reservoir  being  every  time  sixty  fold 
bigger  than  the  first  drops  of  the  prohibited  wine,  keeps  the 
entire  wine  allowable,  i.e.,  inclusive  of  the  whole  prohibited 
wine  emptied  into  it.  Now,  how  can  this  view  be  reconciled 
with  the  dictum  of  the  Mishna  that  a  minimal  quantity  of  pro- 
hibited wine  renders  other  things  forbidden?  Not  otherwise 
than    by   reversing   the    order   of   its   statement,    thus:    When 


158  THE    BABYLONIAN  TALMUD. 

allowed  wine  is  emptied  into  forbidden  one,  and  be  it  in  a 
minimal  quantity,  the  former  is  rendered  forbidden.  Come 
and  hear  another  objection:  Our  Mishna  further  establishes 
"the  imparting  of  flavor"  as  criterion;  does  it  not  mean  that 
the  forbidden  fell  into  the  allowed?  Nay;  it  means  vice  versa. 
But  if  the  water  spoken  of  in  the  first  part  means  forbidden 
water,  we  must  say  that  the  same  is  the  case  with  the  water 
mentioned  in  the  second  part  when  it  falls  into  the  wine,  and  the 
"  imparting  of  flavor"  is  here  the  criterion?  R.  Dimi  may  say 
that  the  entire  Mishna  speaks  of  the  permissible  falling  into  the 
forbidden ;  but  in  the  first  it  is  the  water  that  is  the  forbid- 
den, and  in  the  second  the  wine  is  the  forbidden  and  the 
water  the  permissible.  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Joseph  on  returning  from 
Palestine  said  that  R.  DimPs  version  of  R.  Johanan's  view 
was  faulty,  and  corrected  it  thus*  When  an  Israelite  empties 
forbidden  wine  from  a  vessel  with  a  narrow  mouth  into  a 
reservoir  with  allowed  wine,  even  the  whole  day  long,  the 
forbidden  wine  is  rendered  allowable  by  the  wine  in  the  reser- 
voir on  the  basis  of  the  sixty  to  one  ratio.  Whence  it  is 
manifest  that  R.  Johanan  allows  to  do  this  only  from  a 
narrow-mouthed  vessel,  which  makes  but  a  very  thin  jet,  but 
not  from  a  barrel  that  has  a  thick  flow.  Rabin,  however,  when 
he  came  from  Palestine,  declared  this  version,  too,  as  inexact, 
and  formulated  R.  Johanan's  opinion  as  follows:  When  for- 
bidden wine  falls  into  the  said  reservoir  and  simultaneously  a 
pitcher  of  water  also  falls  in,  the  allowed  wine  of  the  reservoir 
is  not  taken  account  of;  only  the  water  must  be  reckoned  in  rela- 
tion to  the  forbidden  wine,  and  if  it  be  sixty  fold  the  latter,  the 
whole  is  allowed.  R.  Samuel  b.  Jehudah,  on  coming  from  Pal- 
estine, said  that  to  Rabin's  version  R.  Johanan  adds:  Provided 
the  water  fell  in  first  into  the  allowed  wine  in  the  reservoir,  the 
incoming  forbidden  wine  becomes  allowed ;  if,  however,  the  for- 
bidden wine  first  fell  into  the  reservoir  and  then  the  water,  all 
remains  prohibited,  because  the  wine  has  met  with  its  own  kind 
and  asserts  itself.  According,  however,  to  another  opinion,  R. 
Samuel  b.  Jehudah  explains  not  Rabin's  version,  but  our  Mishna, 
where  it  says  that  wine  mixed  with  wine,  even  in  a  minimal  quan- 
tity, renders  it  prohibited.  This,  he  says,  R.  Johanan  under- 
stands as  follows:  If  wine  meets  wine  only,  then  a  minimum 
renders  prohibited;  but  if  a  pitcher  of  water  falls  also  at  the 
same  time,  the  allowed  wine  is  not  counted  at  all,  and  the 
water,  greater  in  quantity  than  the  wine,  abolishes  it.     And  it 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  159 

is  by  far  not  a  matter  of  indifference  whether  Samuel's  expla- 
nation is  concerned  as  relating  to  the  said  Mishna  or  to  the 
foregoing  version  of  Rabin.  If  it  refers  to  the  Mishna,  he  must 
be  understood  to  allow  the  wine  regardless  of  the  question 
whether  the  water  was  first  added  to  the  allowed  wine  and  then 
the  forbidden  wine  or  vice  versa.  On  the  other  hand,  if  his 
explanation  applies  to  Rabin's  version,  he  presumably  holds 
that  the  water  must  come  first  and  then  the  forbidden  wine. 

It  was  taught :  If  forbidden  wine  falls  into  a  reservoir,  and 
simultaneously  a  pitcher  of  water,  'Hiskia  prohibits  it,  provided 
the  forbidden  increased  the  quantity;  but  if  the  water  increased 
the  quantity,  then  he  allows  it.  R.  Johanan,  however,  allows 
also  in  the  case  when  the  quantity  was  increased  by  the  for- 
bidden. R.  Jeremiah  asked  R.  Zera  whether  the  difference  of 
opinion  exhibited  by  'Hiskia  and  R.  Johanan  is  the  same  as 
that  shown  by  the  respective  opinions  of  R.  Eliezar  and  the 
sages  in  the  following  Mishna:  In  a  case  when  both  ordinary 
and  Teruma  leaven  fell  into  a  dough  and  neither  of  the  two 
would  of  itself  cause  fermentation,  but  together  they  would  do 
so,  R.  Eliezar  guides  himself  by  that  which  fell  in  last,  while 
the  sages  hold  that  the  Teruma  leaven  does  not  render  prohib- 
ited, unless  it  suffices  to  cause  by  itself  fermentation,  and  it  is 
immaterial  whether  it  fell  in  first  or  last.  Replied  R.  Zera: 
How  can  this  be  borne  in  mind?  Did  not  Abayi  say  that  R. 
Eliezar  allows  the  dough  only  when  the  Teruma  leaven  was  put 
in  first,  then  taken  out  and  the  other  leaven  put  in;  but  if  the 
Teruma  leaven  remained,  the  dough  is  prohibited?  'Hiskia 
allows  the  wine  even  when  the  forbidden  one  remains.  The 
difference  in  the  opinions  of  'Hiskia  and  R.  Johanan  concerns 
only  the  consideration  {i.e.,  whether  the  allowed  wine  may  be 
considered  as  non-existent).  R.  Johanan  holds  this  theory  of 
consideration,  while  'Hiskia  does  not. 

The  following  was  taught  in  support  of  this:  R.  Ami,  accord- 
ing to  others  R.  Assi,  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  Suppose 
two  goblets,  one  containing  ordinary,  the  other  Teruma  wine, 
each  diluted  with  water;  if  now  the  two  wines  be  mixed  into  one 
goblet,  the  ordinary  wine  is  not  considered  as  existing  at  all, 
hence,  if  the  water  is  to  the  Teruma  wine  in  the  ratio  of  sixty 
to  one,  the  wine  is  negligible. 

' '  This  is  the  rule :  When  the  two  are  of  the  same  kind,  a 
minimal  quantity  suffices  ;  if,  however,  they  are  of  various  kinds 
the  imparting  of  flavor  determines."     Rabh  and  Samuel  say  that 


i6o  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

all  objects  biblically  forbidden,  render  by  minimal  quantity  pro- 
hibited all  other  objects  of  the  same  kind;  but  if  of  a  different 
kind,  they  are  made  unallowable  only  when  the  flavor  of  the 
forbidden  is  perceptibly  imparted  to  them.  And  this  is  in- 
ferred from  the  expression  of  the  Mishna  "  this  is  the  rule," 
which  expression  would  be  superfluous  if  not  for  generalizing 
this  biblical  prohibition.  On  the  other  hand,  R.  Johanan  and 
Resh  Lakish  both  decide  all  such  cases  of  biblical  prohibition 
by  the  rule  of  "  imparting  flavor,"  irrespective  of  identity  or 
diversity  of  kinds;  and  the  expression  of  the  Mishna"  this  is 
the  rule"  they  explain  as  including  a  mixture  of  grain  from 
which  it  is  not  known  whether  Teruma  and  tithe  were  separated. 

There  are  two  Boraithas,  one  held  in  the  sense  of  Rabh  and 
Samuel,  the  other  in  that  of  R.  Johanan  and  Resh  Lakish : 
(i)  All  objects  biblically  forbidden  render  objects  of  the  same 
kind  prohibited  by  minimal  quantity,  objects  of  another  kind  by 
the  imparting  of  flavor.  (2)  All  objects  biblically  forbidden  ren- 
der all  other  objects  prohibited  by  the  imparting  of  flavor  irre- 
spective of  kind  ;  the  mixture  mentioned  above  and  the  wine  form 
the  only  two  exceptions:  A  mixture  from  which  Teruma  has  not 
been  separated,  as  well  as  offered  wine,  renders  objects  of  the  same 
kind  forbidden  by  minimal  quantity;  objects  of  a  diverse  kind, 
by  imparting  flavor.  The  rigorousness  of  the  wine  regulation 
is  readily  justified,  when  we  remember  that  here  idol-worship  is 
concerned;  but  why  is  it  applied  also  to  the  mixture?  The  an- 
swer is  that  as  regards  the  separating  of  Teruma  the  same  law 
holds  good — viz.  :  When  the  owner  separates  as  Teruma  but  a 
single  grain  from  a  heap  of  1,000  measures,  it  is,  according  to 
Samuel,  sufficient;  hence,  when  from  such  a  heap  of  1,000 
measures,  from  which  no  Teruma  has  as  yet  been  separated,  a 
single  grain  comes  to  another  heap  of  like  magnitude,  the  latter 
is  rendered  prohibited.  And  there  is  also  a  Mishna  to  the  same 
effect :  According  to  the  sages  an  object  renders  prohibited  other 
objects  by  minimal  quantity  when  they  are  of  the  same  kind, 
but  if  they  are  of  various  kinds,  the  imparting  of  flavor  is  the 
deciding  factor. 

MISHNA /X  :  The  following  objects  are  forbidden  and  ren- 
der prohibited  by  minimal  quantity:  Offered  wine,  an  idol- 
image,  holed  hides,  an  ox  sentenced  to  be  stoned,  the  heifer 
destined  for  breaking  off  her  neck,  the  fowl  sacrifices  of  the 
leper,  the  hair  of  a  Nazarite,  the  first-born  of  an  ass,  meat 
cooked  in  milk,  the  kid  exported  on  the  Day  of  Atonement,  and 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA   (IDOLATRY).  i6i 

ordinary  cattle  slaughtered  in  the  courtyard  of  the  temple.  All 
these  objects  are  themselves  forbidden  and  render  prohibited  by 
their  minimal  quantity. 

GEMARA:  If  the  Mishna  classifies  these  objects  on  the 
basis  of  their  perceptible  number,  why  does  it  not  include  here 
pieces  of  a  carcass?  Or  if  it  enumerates  only  objects  of  which 
all  benefit  is  forbidden,  why  does  it  not  include  leaven  on  Pass- 
over? Said  R.  'Hyya  b.  Abba,  according  to  others,  R.  Itz'hak 
of  Naph'ha:  The  Mishna  enumerates  here  objects  that  are  both 
perceptible  in  number  and  prohibited  for  all  benefit. 

''All  these  objects.''  What  does  this  expression  exclude? 
Objects  whose  number  is  a  matter  of  indifference,  their  benefit, 
though,  being  forbidden ;  or  vice  versa,  objects  allowed  for 
benefit  and  perceptible  in  number;  it  is  such  objects  that  render 
prohibited  not  by  minimal  quantity,  but  by  imparting  flavor. 

MISHNA  X.:  When  offered  wine  flows  down  into  a  reser- 
voir of  wine,  the  benefit  of  the  whole  wine  is  forbidden.  R. 
Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  says :  The  whole  is  allowed  to  be 
sold  to  heathens,  excepting  the  worth  of  the  offered  wine 
therein. 

GEMARA:  Said  Rabh:  The  Halakha  prevails  with  R. 
Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  only  in  the  case  when  a  cask  of  devoted 
wine  was  mingled  among  casks  of  Jewish  wine;  but  when  de- 
voted wine  is  mixed  with  other  wine,  the  whole  is  forbidden. 
Samuel,  however,  says :  The  opinion  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel 
prevails  as  the  Halakha  concerning  wine  also.  With  Samuel 
agree  Rabba  b.  b.  'Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  R.  Samuel 
b.  Nathan  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabha  b. 
Abuhu.  R.  Na'hman  himself,  however,  said  that  for  practice 
it  should  be  decided  thus:  If  it  is  definitely  known  that  the 
admixed  wine  was  devoted  wine,  Rabh's  procedure  is  the  right 
one;  but  if  the  case  is  doubtful,  Samuel's  view  is  to  be  followed. 

MISHNA  XL:  A  stone  wine-press  waxed  by  a  heathen 
must  only  be  washed  to  remain  clean;  but  if  it  is  of  wood, 
Rabbi  says  it  must  only  be  washed,  while  the  sages  say  that  the 
wax  must  be  wholly  removed.  Finally,  if  it  is  a  clay  press  it  is 
forbidden  even  when  the  wax  has  been  removed. 

GEMARA:  Rabha  interprets  the  Mishna  thus:  The  wash- 
ing suffices  only  when  the  heathen  waxed  the  press,  but  if  he 
pressed  his  own  wine  therein,  the  entire  wax  must  be  removed. 
Is  not  this  self-evident  from  the  fact  that  the  Mishna  does  not 
mention  the  pressing?     Lest  one  say  that  the  expression  of  the 


i62  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Mishna  is  not  exclusive  of  the  other  case,  hence  his  interpreta- 
tion. Here  is  a  case  to  this  effect.  An  Israehte  once  appeared 
before  R.  'Hyya  asking  him  thus:  Send  a  man  with  me  to  inves- 
tigate whether  my  wine-press  is  in  legal  order,  so  that  I  might 
press  my  wine  therein.  Hereupon  R.  'Hyya  said  to  Rabh  :  Go 
and  examine  the  man's  press,  but  state  your  opinion  in  a  man- 
ner as  not  to  excite  any  dispute  in  the  college.  Upon  exam- 
ining the  press,  Rabh  found  it  smooth,  and  thought  it  need 
only  be  washed.  However,  further  examination  revealed  to 
him  a  fissure  in  which  some  wine,  though  dried  up,  was  notice- 
able; then  he  decided  that  washing  is  not  sufficient,  but  that 
the  wax  must  be  wholly  removed,  adding:  I  now  understand 
the  apprehension  of  my  uncle  regarding  a  possible  dispute  in 
the  college  consequent  upon  my  decision ;  indeed,  had  I  but 
relied  upon  my  first  superficial  examination,  my  decision  would 
have  been  disputed. 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  press,  a  ladle,  and  an  earthen  funnel 
that  belong  to  a  heathen  and  are  not  waxed  Rabbi  allows  to 
use,  provided  they  have  first  received  a  washing,  while  the  sages 
prohibit  them.  As  to  the  use  of  earthen  wine-pitchers,  Rabbi, 
too,  forbids  it,  for  such  pitchers  are  used  for  a  greater  length  of 
time,  while  the  foregoing  vessels  are  used  but  temporarily;  but 
again,  if  these  vessels  are  of  wood  or  stone  they  are,  after  being 
washed,  allowed  if  not  waxed,  but  if  waxed  they  are  forbidden. 
Now,  this  last  prohibition  seems  to  conflict  with  the  Mishna 
which  declares  clean  a  stone  press  waxed  by  a  heathen,  provided 
it  be  washed  before  using  it?  The  answer  is  that  the  press  of 
the  Mishna  is,  though  waxed,  yet  not  used  by  the  heathen, 
while  the  Boraitha  speaks  of  a  press  where  the  heathen  pressed 
wine. 

The  master  says :  A  press,  a  ladle  and  an  earthen  funnel  that 
belong  to  a  heathen,  are  allowed  to  use  upon  being  washed  first, 
while  the  Mishna  prohibits  an  earthen  press  even  after  the  wax 
thereof  has  been  removed?  Said  Rabha:  In  the  Boraitha  it  is 
Rabbi  that  allows,  while  the  sages  forbid  here  as  well  as  in  the 
Mishna. 

Rabha  lectured :  When  an  Israelite  wishes  to  use  a  heathen's 
wine-press,  he  must  first  wash  it  with  boiling  water.  When  Rabha 
once  sent  his  wine-pitchers  to  Harpania  through  a  heathen,  he 
put  each  pitcher-mouth  downward  into  a  sack  and  sealed  the 
latter,  thereby  effecting  a  double  sealing;  for  he  was  of  the 
opinion  that  the  sages  prohibit  such  vessels  as  used  to  preserve 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  163 

wine  for  a  long  time,  even  if  they  have  been  but  for  a  short  time 
in  the  hands  of  a  heathen. 

How  should  the  washing  prescribed  in  both  Boraitha  and 
Mishna  be  done?  Rabh  says,  with  water;  while  Rabba  b.  b. 
'Hana  says,  with  ashes — that  is  to  say,  the  two  require  the  wash- 
ing to  be  done  with  both  water  and  ashes,  and  differ  only  as 
regards  the  order,  Rabh  requiring  the  water  first,  and  Rabba 
the  ashes  first;  not  is  their  point  of  difference  one  of  essence, 
as  the  former  has  in  view  dry  vessels  and  the  latter  moist  ones. 
The  disciples  of  Rabh  at  Suro  said  in  his  name  that  the  washing 
is  done  as  follows:  To  dry  vessels  apply  first  water,  then  ashes, 
and  then  again  water;  to  moist  vessels,  first  ashes,  and  then 
water.  The  same  disciples  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  To 
moist  vessel  apply  in  this  order:  ashes,  water,  ashes;  to  dry 
ones,  in  this  order:  water,  ashes,  water,  ashes.  The  disciples 
of  Rabh  at  Pumbeditha  quoted  him  as  holding  the  just-cited 
view  of  Samuel,  and  Samuel  as  requiring  this  procedure:  To 
moist  vessels,  ashes,  water,  ashes,  water,  i.e.,  four;  to  dry  ves- 
sels, water,  ashes,  water,  ashes,  water,  i.e.,  five  processes; 
hence,  Rabh  and  Samuel  are  of  the  same  opinion,  with  the  only 
difference  that  the  former  does  not  count  the  last  water,  which 
Samuel  does. 

R.  Abuhu  on  being  once  asked  how  the  cover  of  a  heathen's 
press  should  be  cleaned,  answered  with  the  following  Boraitha: 
Wine  or  oil-presses  of  an  Israelite  that  have  become  unclean 
must  be  cleaned  in  the  following  manner:  The  sideboard  of  the 
press,  the  press  itself  and  the  brooms  must  be  washed  with 
water;  the  press  cover,  however,  if  made  of  hemp  stalks  or 
osier,  must  be  washed  according  to  the  directions  of  Rabh  and 
Samuel;  but  if  it  is  of  reed  or  thin  wood,  it  must  be  left  unused 
for  a  year;  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  finds  the  period 
between  two  consecutive  press-seasons  sufificient,  which  period 
is  sometimes  more  sometimes  less  than  a  year.  Said  R.  Jose: 
If  the  cover  is  needed  for  immediate  use  it  should  be  put  in 
boiling  water  or  passed  through  the  boiler  where  are  roasted  the 
olives  from  which  the  oil  is  pressed.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel 
said  in  his  name:  The  cover  maybe  put  under  the  water  of  a 
cascade  or  of  a  spring.  And  for  how  long?  For  an  Onah.  The 
same  laws  which  the  sages  have  established  with  regard  to  clean 
and  unclean,  are  also  concerning  the  question  of  devoted  wine. 

How  long  is  an  Onah?  R.  Hyya  b.  Abba  said  in  the  name 
of  R.  Johanan:    An  Onah  is  the  length  of  either  a  day  or  a 


i64  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

night.  R.  Hana  b.  Sheina,  according  to  others,  R.  Hana  b. 
Sheina,  said  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  b.  'Hana  that  R.  Johanan 
makes  an  Onah  equal  to  the  length  of  a  half  a  day  and  night. 
However,  according  to  each  version,  the  Onah  equals  twelve 
hours,  since  the  one  refers  to  the  equinox  and  the  other  to  the 
solstice  season. 

R.  Jehudah  says:  The  bags  of  the  heathens  through  which 
the  wine  is  filtered  of  its  dregs,  are  subject  to  the  following 
regulations:  If  they  are  made  of  human  hair,  they  must  first  be 
washed  with  water  before  an  Israelite  may  use  them;  if  of 
wood,  they  must  pass  through  water  and  ashes;  finally,  if  of 
linen,  they  must  be  set  aside  for  twelve  months,  and  if  they 
have  knots  they  must  be  unravelled.  Baskets  and  beehives  used 
by  the  heathens  in  working  the  wine,  are  under  these  rules:  If 
woven  of  palm-twigs,  they  should  be  washed  with  water  before 
the  Israelite  uses  them ;  if  of  reed,  the  washing  should  be  with 
water  and  ashes;  linen  sieves  must  be  put  aside  for  twelve 
months,  and  if  they  have  a  knot  it  must  be  opened. 

What  must  be  done  when  an  ignoramus  thrust  his  hand  into 
the  wine-press  and  touches  the  grapes  and  the  wine?  Of  the 
two  sages.  Rabbi  and  R.  'Hyya,  one  says  only  the  grape  touched 
by  him  and  whatever  is  immediately  adjacent  thereto  is  unclean 
and  must  be  removed  from  the  press,  but  not  the  rest;  while 
the  other  says:  All  that  the  press  contains  is  defiled  by  his 
touch.  The  former  opinion  seems  to  conflict  with  the  following 
Mishna:  A  reptile  found  in  an  oil-mill  renders  unclean  only  the 
place  touched  by  it,  but  if  there  be  a  flowing  liquid,  all  becomes 
unclean.  The  answer  is  that  the  grapes  are  on  the  twigs  of  the 
cluster,  so  that  wood  intervenes  between  the  place  touched  and 
the  fluid,  and  wood  is  not  receptive  of  uncleanness. 

The  sages  taught  to  R.  Jeremiah,  according  to  others,  to  his 
son,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  with  him  who  says  that  only  the 
part  touched  by  the  Amharetz  and  its  immediate  environment 
are  unclean,  while  all  the  rest  in  the  press  is  clean. 

MISHNA  XII . :  Utensils  bought  of  a  heathen  must  be 
cleansed  according  to  usages:  if  they  are  customarily  immersed 
in  water,  they  must  be  cleansed  so;  if  boiled,  by  boiling;  if 
glowed,  by  glowing  in  fire.  A  spit  or  a  gridiron  must  be 
glowed;  a  knife  is  cleansed  even  by  grinding  it. 

GEMARA:  There  is  a  Boraitha:  The  objects  mentioned  in 
the  Mishna,  upon  being  cleansed  in  the  prescribed  manner, 
must  be  again  immersed  in  a  tank  holding  forty  saah  of  water. 


TRACT    ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  165 

Whence  is  this  deduced?  Said  Rabha,  from  [Numb.  xxxi.  23]: 
"  Everything  that  cometh  into  the  fire,  shall  ye  make  go 
through  the  fire,  and  it  shall  be  clean."  The  apparently  re- 
dundant phrase  "  and  it  shall  be  clean  "  calls  for  another  cleans- 
ing, which  is  the  last  immersing. 

Bar-Kapara  taught:  The  last  sentence  of  the  verse  is  intro- 
duced by  "  yet  "  in  order  not  to  give  rise  to  the  belief  that  the 
said  objects  must  on  the  third  and  seventh  day  be  besprinkled 
with  the  sprinkling  water.  Moreover,  the  term  meinidah  {i.e.,  the 
waters  where  the  menstruant  woman  bathes)  is  used  with  a  view 
toward  emphasizing  the  necessity  of  immersing  them  not  merely 
in  water,  but  in  a  tank  holding  forty  saah  thereof.  Again,  it  is 
also  evident  that  both  the  sentences,  that  "  it  shall  be  clean," 
and  the  next  one,  "yet  it,"  are  necessary:  the  former  alone 
would  merely  indicate  the  necessity  of  an  additional  immersing 
in  general  (and  not  in  forty  saah);  while  the  other  sentence 
alone  would  give  ground  to  assume  that  the  rules  regulating  the 
said  utensils  are  identical  with  those  providing  for  the  woman's 
cleansing  of  her  menses,  which  is,  besides  the  immersing,  yet 
conditioned  by  the  sunset;  hence,  the  former  sentence  serves  to 
prevent  such  an  assumption.  R.  Nahman  said  in  the  name  of 
Rabba  b.  Abuhu:  New  utensils,  too,  bought  of  a  heathen,  must 
be  cleansed,  just  as  vessels  passed  through  fire  must  none  the 
less  be  also  immersed ;  whereto,  R.  Sheshith  opposed,  saying 
that  according  to  this  opinion  scissors  bought  of  a  heathen  would 
also  need  immersing,  to  which  R.  Na'hman  replied  that  it  is 
only  kitchen  utensils  that  are  concerned  here.  R.  Nahman  said 
again  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu :  The  rule  of  immersing 
applies  only  to  utensils  bought  as  it  was  in  Midian,  but  not  to 
those  borrowed  of  a  heathen. 

R.  Itz'hak  b.  Joseph  happened  once  to  buy  of  a  heathen  an 
earthen  vessel  and  wanted  to  immerse  it,  when  R.  Jacob  said  to 
him:  I  have  heard  from  R.  Johanan  that  only  metallic  vessels 
need  immersing.  R.  Ashi  said :  Vessels  of  glass,  too,  must  be 
immersed,  for  they  can,  after  being  broken,  be  restored  to  their 
former  state,  wherefore  they  equal  those  of  metal.  As  to  glazed 
vessels  R.  A'ha  and  Rabina  express  their  opinions  as  follows: 
One  holds  that  as  these  vessels  are  of  earth  they  need  not  be 
immersed;  while  the  other  maintains  that  since  in  glazing  lead 
is  used,  these  vessels  are  regarded  as  metallic,  and  need  im- 
mersing; and  so  the  Halakha  prevails. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  Is  it  allowed  to  use 


1 66  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

without  immersion  a  new  vessel  received  of  a  heathen  as  a 
pledge?  Said  Mar  b.  R.  Ashi:  A  heathen  once  left  with  my 
father  a  silver  goblet  as  a  pledge,  and  he  had  first  immersed  and 
then  used  it;  however,  I  am  not  in  a  position  to  tell  whether 
my  father  was  of  the  opinion  that  a  pledge  is  in  general  regarded 
as  bought,  wherefore  immersion  thereof  is  obligatory,  or  he  knew 
in  that  particular  case  that  the  heathen  was  not  going  to  redeem 
the  goblet,  so  that  it  surely  remained  his  property. 

The  rabbis  taught:  New  kitchen  utensils  bought  of  a  heathen 
need  immersion ;  furthermore,  vessels  already  used  by  a  heathen, 
but  merely  for  preserving  cold  articles,  such  as  goblets,  small 
wine-pitchers  and  glasses,  must  be  first  washed  with,  and  then  im- 
mersed in,  water ;  vessels,  however,  already  used  by  the  heathen 
to  preserve  warm  food,  etc.,  such  as  kettles,  pans  and  water- 
boilers,  must  first  be  passed  through  boiling  water  and  then  im- 
mersed; finally,  vessels  used  by  the  heathen  only  on  fire,  such 
as  spits  and  gridirons,  must  first  be  glowed  and  then  immersed. 
In  case,  however,  an  Israelite  made  use  of  such  utensils  without 
having  submitted  them  to  the  prescribed  process  of  cleansing, 
all  that  was  kept  or  prepared  in  them  is,  according  to  one 
Boraitha,  forbidden,  and  according  to  another,  allowed ;  the  one 
basing  itself  upon  the  opinion  that  all  forbidden  objects,  even  if 
they  make  a  food  when  mixed  to  it  insipid,  render  it  prohibited, 
while  the  other  Boraitha  guides  itself  by  the  opposite  opinion. 
But,  may  be  asked  in  this  connection,  how  does  he  who  leaves 
an  object  allowable  provided  the  admixed  forbidden  thing  aug- 
mented its  insipidness,  interpret  the  Scripture's  prescribing  to 
the  Israelites  to  cleanse  the  vessels  they  acquired  through  their 
conquest  of  the  Midianites?  Said  R.  'Hyya  b.  R.  Huna:  The 
prescription  of  Scripture  just  alluded  to  concerns  only  such 
kitchen  utensils  in  which  food  was  prepared  during  the  very  day 
of  the  conquest,  as  they  were  not  capable  yet  to  render  other 
things  more  insipid.  And  the  Scripture  did  not  allow  to  leave 
these  vessels  for  a  day  or  so  when  they  would  render  food  in- 
sipid, fearing  lest  one  would  be  tempted  to  use  them  on  the 
very  day  of  the  conquest. 

R.  Amram  said  to  R.  Sheshith :  The  Mishna  says  that  "  spits 
and  gridirons  must  be  glowed,"  whereas  we  learned  with  regard 
to  such  utensils  that  if  meat  of  a  sacrifice  was  roasted  on  them, 
th.ey  must  be  passed  through  boiling  water  before  other  such 
meat  may  be  roasted  on  them?  Said  R.  Sheshith:  Amram, 
my  son,  the  two  cases  are  incomparable:  Here  the  utensils  ab- 


TRACT  ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  167 

sorb  an  allowed  object,  while  the  vessels  of  heathens  absorb 
forbidden  things,  and  can  be,  therefore,  cleansed  only  by  glow- 
ing. Rabba,  however,  finds  the  two  cases  comparable,  because 
as  soon  as  the  meat  of  the  sacrifice  remains  on  the  spit  or  grid- 
iron for  an  interval  longer  than  the  one  prescribed  for  eating  it, 
its  vapor,  which  is  already  unallowed,  is  absorbed  by  the  vessel, 
therefore  "  boiling"  includes  also  scouring  and  rinsing.  Here- 
upon said  Abayi:  Such  cannot  be  the  case,  for  the  scouring  and 
rinsing  take  place  in  cold  water;  Avhile  in  the  case  of  sacrificed 
meat  the  vessels  are  passed  through  boiling  water;  it  must  then 
be  understood  that  both  the  spit  and  gridiron  of  the  heathen 
and  those  used  to  roast  sacrificed  meat  on  must,  in  order  to  be 
used  again,  first  be  glowed  and  then  passed  through  hot  water. 
As  to  the  Mishna,  it  mentions  only  glowing,  for  the  passing 
through  boiling  water  is  seen  from  the  Boraitha;  in  like  manner 
does  not  the  latter  mention  the  glowing  which  is  clearly  stated 
in  the  Mishna.  Rabha,  however,  finds  this  explanation  incor- 
rect; for,  he  says,  if  this  were  the  reason  of  the  omission,  either 
the  Mishna  or  the  Boraitha  would  have  to  state  both  methods 
of  cleansing;  then  in  the  other  one,  where  only  one  method  is 
given,  the  inference  as  to  the  second  method,  too,  could  be 
justly  made,  but  as  the  case  is  now,  the  two  are  not  mutually 
supplementary  (but  rather  exclusive).  R.  Papa,  however,  rec- 
onciles the  two  (Mishna  and  Boraitha)  as  follows:  The  utensils 
of  the  heathens  retain  all  they  absorb,  as  they  are  not  used 
daily;  while  those  on  which  the  sacrificed  meat  is  roasted  are 
used  continually  and  are,  therefore,  not  left  to  cool  off  and  to 
absorb  the  vapors.  Said  R.  Ashi :  The  most  plausible  explana- 
tion is  that  offered  above  by  R.  Sheshith,  and  as  to  Rabba's  objec- 
tion there,  that  the  utensils  will,  when  next  used,  evaporate  the 
previously  absorbed  vapors  that  have  become  forbidden,  it  can 
be  met  thus:  The  evaporation  is  considered  merely  as  odor  and 
deserves  of  no  attention. 

For  how  long  must  the  utensils  remain  glowing  in  fire?  Said 
R.  Mani :  Until  their  surface  is  peeled  ofT.  In  cleansing  vessels 
by  passing  them  through  boiling  water,  the  water  must  all  cover 
them,  according  to  R.  Huna.  But  if  the  vessel  is  very  big? 
Come  and  hear:  It  once  happened  at  R.  Akabia's  that  a  big 
kettle  needed  cleansing,  and  he  had  the  kettle  brimmed  high 
with  dough,  so  that  the  water  poured  into  it  reached  above  the 
kettle;  this  water  was  made  to  boil  and  the  kettle  was  cleansed 
therewith.     Said  Rabba:  Who  can  equal  R.  Aqabia  in  wisdom, 


i68  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

so  as  to  invent  so  ingenious  a  device!  for  the  brim  of  the  kettle 
which  was  unclean  only  by  reason  of  the  forbidden  prepared 
therein  and  the  drops  spouting  upward,  is  now  cleansed  by  the 
drops  of  the  boiling  water  spouting  upward  upon  the  brim. 

"  A  knife  is  cleansed  even  by  grindifig  it."'  R.  Ukba  b. 
'Hama  said:  It  means  the  knife  should  be  ten  times  stuck  into 
the  earth  in  and  out.  Added  R.  Hunab.  Jehoshua:  It  must  be 
earth  that  has  not  been  yet  cultivated.  R.  Kahana  remarked  : 
The  knife  which  is  to  be  thus  cleansed  must  have  no  hole  on  its 
surface.  There  is  a  Boraitha  in  support  of  this:  A  knife  wholly 
smooth  on  its  surface  may  be  cleaned  by  sticking  it  in  the  ground 
ten  times.  Said  R.  Huna  b.  Jehoshua:  But  then  you  can  eat 
with  it  only  cold  food;  and  if  you  want  to  use  it  also  for  warm 
food,  you  must  first  pass  it  through  boiling  water.  As  it  once 
happened  that  Mar  Jehudah  and  Bati  b.  Tubi  were  guests  at  the 
table  of  King  Sabur  when  a  citron  was  served;  the  king  took  a 
piece  from  it  for  himself  and  another  piece  he  tendered  to  Bati 
b.  Tubi;  then  he  took  the  knife,  stuck  it  in  the  ground  ten 
times,  cut  off  another  piece,  and  gave  it  to  Mar  Jehudah. 
Thereupon  said  Bati  b.  Tubi:  Am  I  not  an  Israelite  that  you 
thus  cleanse  the  knife  for  him  and  not  for  me?  And  the  king 
answered:  I  am  convinced  of  Mar  Jehudah's  profound  piety, 
but  not  of  yours.  According  to  others,  however,  the  king's 
answer  was  this:  Recall  what  you  committed  last  night.  (See 
Rashi's  explanation  of  this  last  answer.) 


APPENDIX   TO    PAGE   60. 

"  Pieces  of  wine  extract."  The  Mishna  speaks  of  Hadrianic 
potsherds.  What  are  these  potsherds?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  of  Samuel:  It  is  meant  thereby  the  potsherds  of  the  King 
Hadrianus ;  and  R.  Dimi  on  his  return  from  Palestine  explained 
the  nature  of  these  potsherds  as  follows:  The  Romans  were 
wont  to  find  a  plot  of  virgin  soil,  which  they  would  work  out 
and  plant  with  grapes;  the  wine  thus  obtained  they  used  to 
pour  into  new  white  earthern  pitchers  and  leave  it  therein  until 
the  pitchers  would  absorb  as  much  of  the  wine  as  they  could; 
then  the  Romans  would  empty  the  pitchers  of  the  remaining 
wine  and  break  them  into  pieces;  which  potsherds  they  used  to 
take  along  with  them  on  their  military  expeditions,  and  when- 
ever they  wanted  some  wine  they  would  pour  water  on  such 


TRACT   ABUDA    ZARA    (IDOLATRY).  169 

potsherds  and  these  would  turn  the  water  to  wine.  R.  Jehoshua 
b.  Levi  added  with  reference  to  this  that  our  best  wine  is  not  so 
good  as  the  third  pouring  of  these  potsherds. 

It  was  asked  whether  it  is  allowed  to  fasten  with  such  pot- 
sherds the  legs  of  a  bedstead,  since  here  the  potsherds  are  wanted 
not  for  the  wine  they  contain  but  for  another  purpose?  Come 
and  hear:  R,  Eliezar  and  R.  Johanan  who  were  asked  on  this 
point,  expressed  contrary  opinions;  the  one  allowing  the  pot- 
sherds for  this  use  and  the  other  forbidding  them  (which  latter 
opinion  prevails  as  the  Halakha). 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following:  Wine  poured 
into  pitchers  or  leather  bags  of  a  heathen  is  forbidden  to  drink, 
any  other  benefit,  however,  may  be  derived  from  it.  And  Sim- 
eon b,  Guda  said  to  the  son  of  R.  Gamaliel,  that  even  his  father, 
R.  Gamaliel  himself,  drank  at  Ako  such  wine,  which  story  found, 
however,  no  belief.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  said  in  the  name  of 
R.  Jehoshua  b.  Kapusai:  The  leather  bags  of  a  heathen  are  abso- 
lutely prohibited,  so  that  even  a  cover  for  an  ass  is  not  allowed 
to  make  of  them.  Thus  you  see  that  here  the  leather  bags  are 
wanted  not  for  the  wine  they  contain,  but  for  making  a  saddle 
or  so  for  an  ass,  and  yet  they  are  forbidden?  But  again,  how  is 
then  the  Boraitha  to  be  understood?  Why  then  are  not  all  ves- 
sels, earthen  as  well,  prohibited  to  sell  to,  or  buy  from,  a  heath- 
en? What  difference  is  there  between  leather  bags  and  earthen 
pitchers?  Said  Rabha:  The  following  was  the  cause  why  leather 
bags  were  prohibited:  it  v/as  namely  feared  that  the  Israelite 
might  mend  his  own  leather  bag  with  the  leather  of  the  heathen's 
bag. 

But  how  can  he  who  prohibits  to  derive  any  benefit  from  the 
heathen's  leather  bag,  account  for  the  fact  that  the  selling  and 
buying  of  pitchers  was  not  forbidden?  He  may  say  that  as  re- 
gards pitchers  one  can  easily  detect  whether  there  was  wine  in 
them ;  hence,  if  it  is  found  that  such  contained  no  wine,  one  is 
allowed  to  buy  them.  But  as  to  Hadn'anic  potsherds,  it  is  cer- 
tain that  they  contain  wine,  hence  they  are  absolutely  prohibited. 


END  OF  TRACT  ABODA  ZARA. 


TRACT  HORIOTH  (DECISIONS). 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

TRACT   HORIOTH   (DECISIONS). 


CHAPTER    I. 


MiSHNA  /.  TO  V.  If,  after  the  court  had  decreed  the  transgression  of 
one  of  all  the  commandments  prescribed  in  the  Torah,  an  individual  guided 
by  this  decree  acted  erroneously,  etc.  If  upon  issuing  the  decree  the  court 
becomes  aware  of  its  being  conceived  in  error  and  retracts,  and  mean- 
while an  individual  commits  a  transgression  upon  their  decree,  etc.  If  while 
the  court  was  deciding,  one  of  its  members  who  perceived  their  error  drew 
their  attention  to  it,  etc.  If  causing  the  whole  people  to  act  erroneously,  etc. 
If  upon  the  erroneous  decree  of  the  court  the  whole  people,  or  its  majority, 
acted,  etc.,      ...........        3-12 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNA  /.  TO  VII.  If  an  anointed  priest  has  erroneously  rendered  an 
unlawful  decision  against  himself  and  acted  accordingly  by  mistake,  etc. 
If  he  (the  said  priest)  both  decided  and  acted  for  himself,  etc.  The  court 
is  not  liable  unless  the  issued  decree  concerns  Korath  and  sin-offering 
respectively.  It  is  also  not  liable  for  a  decree  concerning  a  command  or 
a  proliibition  with  regard  to  (polluting)  the  sanctuary.  There  is  no  liability 
when  the  decree  concerns  an  adjuring  challenge  to  testify,  a  hastily  made 
TOW,  etc.  Concerning  a  ruler  and  the  high  priest's  offerings  for  their 
sin, 13-18 

CHAPTER  III. 

MiSHNA  /.  TO  VII.  An  anointed  priest  who  has  sinned  and  was  removed 
from  his  office,  etc.  If  they  were  appointed  to  their  respective  positions 
after  they  had  sinned,  etc.  Who  is  the  anointed  priest?  He  who  was  con- 
secrated to  priesthood  by  the  holy  ointment,  etc.  The  high  priest  rends  his 
garment  from  below;  the  common  priest,  from  the  top,  etc.  What  is  more 
common  precedes  the  less  common.  The  man  has  the  preference  over  the 
woman,  etc.  In  captivity  his  master  has  the  preference  over  his  father.  His 
mother,  however,  has  the  preference  over  all.     The  following  precede  one 


iT  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

another  in  order  of  arrangement,  etc.  Why  does  the  dog  know  his  master, 
and  the  cat  does  not?  Why  do  all  reign  over  the  mice?  Five  objects  are 
conducive  to  one's  forgetting  his  studies,  etc.  Five  are  apt  to  strengthen 
one's  memory,  etc.  The  following  ten  objects  are  cumbrous  to  one's  studies, 
etc.  When  the  prince  enters,  all  the  people  present  in  college  rise  to  their 
feet,  without  again  taking  their  seats  until  he  tells  them  to  do  so.  When 
the  chief  justice  enters,  the  people  occupying  two  rows  of  seats  facing 
the  entrance  rise,  etc.  The  legend  which  happened  to  Raban  Simon  b. 
Gamaliel  with  R.  Mair  and  R.  Nathan.  How  the  latter  were  removed  from 
the  college.  An  erudite  scholar  and  a  dialectician,  who  has  the  preference? 
How  Abaye  rose  to  be  the  chief  of  the  College  of  Sura,     .       .       .        18-29 


TRACT  HORIOTH   (DECISIONSX 


CHAPTER  I. 


MISHNA  /. :  If,  after  the  court  had  decreed  the  transgres- 
sion of  one  of  all  the  commandments  prescribed  in  the  Torah, 
an  individual  guided  by  this  decree  acted  erroneously,  either 
simultaneously  with  the  judges,  or  after  they  had  acted,  or 
altogether  independently,  the  court  not  having  acted  yet  at  all, 
he  is  free,  for  he  followed  the  decree  of  the  court.  If,  however, 
the  transgressor  was  one  of  the  members  of  the  court  and  knew 
the  decree  to  be  erroneous,  or  a  scholar  already  qualified  to 
himself  decide,  he  is  in  any  of  the  aforementioned  conditions 
liable  (to  bring  a  sin  offering),  as  he  has  not  based  his  trans- 
gression upon  the  decree  of  the  court.  This  is  the  rule :  Who- 
ever relies  upon  his  own  judgment  is  liable,  but  whoever  follows 
the  decision  of  the  court  is  free. 

GEMARA:  Samuel  said:  The  court  is  not  liable  unless  its 
decree  read  thus:  You  are  allowed  to  practise  so  and  so.  R. 
Dimi  of  Nahardea,  however,  said :  The  phrase  "  to  practice  "  is 
not  necessary,  the  statement  "  you  are  allowed  "  being  suffi- 
cient; which  view  was,  however,  objected  to  by  Abaye,  R.  Aba, 
and  Rabima  from  Mishnaioth  that  oppose  it  and  it  was  accord- 
ingly overthrown  without  any  further  discussions. 

"  An  individual  .  .  .  acted  erroneously,^^  etc.  Said  Rabha : 
This  is  so  only  when  he  acted  according  to  the  decree  of  the 
court,  but  if  he  ate,  e.  g.,  illegal  fat  in  the  belief  that  it  was 
legal,  he  is  liable.  This  view  of  the  case  so  certain  to  Rabha 
was  doubtful  to  Rami  b.  Hama,  as  he  propounded  the  same 
question  and  Rabha  answered  it  from  the  expression  "  guided 
by  this  decree  "  (the  Gemara,  however,  says)  that  in  this  case 
Rabh  R.  Johanan  differ,  viz. :  in  case  the  court  has  decreed  that 
this  fat  is  allowed  to  use  and  has  consumed  illegal  fat  thinking 
it  legal,  according  to  the  former  he  is  free,  and  according 
to  the  latter  he  is  liable.    And  R.  Papa  explained  R.  Johanan's 


4  ,THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

reason  to  be  that  the  transgressor  is  still  considered  as  having 
acted  in  accordance  with  the  decree,  as  if  the  court  became 
aware  that  it  has  erred  it  would  retract  and  so  would  the  trans- 
gressor abstain  from  eating,  hence  R.  Johanan's  decision.  And 
Rabha  said :  Rabh  admits  that  the  transgressor  in  question  does 
not  complete  the  majority,  because  it  reads  "  erroneously," 
which  means  that  all  must  err  with  regard  to  the  same  thing  but 
not  to  different  things. 

"  Either  simultaneously  with  the  judges,"  etc.  This  is  stated 
in  order  to  teach  that  he  is  free,  not  only  when  he  acted  simul- 
taneously with,  but  also  when  after,  the  judges  had  acted. 

"  A  scholar  qualified/'  etc.  To  what  purpose  are  both  the 
conditions  stated?  Rabha:  To  teach  that  even  such  a  person 
who  is  learned  but  who  lacks  discriminating  power,  or  vice 
versa,  is  also  culpable.  Said  Abaye  to  him :  But  from  the  state- 
ment of  the  Mishna,  "  who  is  already  qualified  to  decide,"  ob- 
viously follows  that  he  is  both  learned  and  strong  is  discrimina- 
tion? Answered  Rabha:  I  mean  to  say  that  if  the  Mishna 
stated  not  the  last  phrase,  it  could  be  said  that  in  order  to  make 
him  liable  he  must  possess  the  two  qualifications,  hence  the 
Mishna  states  it  to  indicate  that  its  first  phrase  refers  to  him 
who  possesses  even  but  one  qualification. 

Again :  "  Qualified  himself  to  decide,"  etc.  Who  is  meant 
thereby?  Said  Rabha,  such,  e.g.,  as  Simeon  b.  Azai  and  Simeon 
b.  Zoma.  Said  Abaye  to  him:  An  act  of  such  great  men  may 
be  considered  intentional;  we  must,  therefore,  say  that  such  a 
case  can  take  place  only  if  he  was  aware  that  such  is  prohibited, 
but  he  committed  an  error  by  thinking  that  it  is  meritorious  to 
follow  the  decree  of  sages  even  when  they  err. 

"  This  is  the  rule,"  etc.  What  does  this  sentence  intend  to 
add?  Him  who  does  not  care  at  all  to  guide  himself  by  the 
decision  of  the  court.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel : 
The  whole  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah  (the  Jana), 
but  according  to  the  sages  one  is  liable  for  acting  upon  the 
decree  of  the  court  as  his  guidance.  Which  R.  Jehudah  is  this? 
From  the  following  Boraitha.  It  reads  [Lev.  iv.  27]  :  "  If  any 
person  ...  sin  through  ignorance,  by  his  doing,"  where  there 
are  three  extensions,  to  teach  that  he  is  liable  by  his  doing  it 
himself,  but  if  by  doing  it  upon  the  decree  of  the  court,  he  is 
free.  And  which  sages  are  there  spoken  of?  From  Torath 
Kohanim,  section  i.,  Leviticus.  But  let  us  see,  our  Mishna  as 
well  as  that  of  Torath  Kohanim  is  each  taught  anonymously; 


TRACT   HORIOTH    (DECISIONS).  5 

vhence,  then,  do  we  know  that  our  Mishna  is  in  accordance 
with  R.  Jehudah  and  the  Boraitha  with  the  rabbis,  may  be  the 
converse  is  the  case?  Nay,  as  of  no  other  have  you  heard  to 
consider  such  extensions  than  of  R.  Jehudah,  who  said  in  the 
following  Boraitha:  it  reads  [ibid.  vi.  2] :  "This  is  the  law  of 
the  burnt-offering,"  where  there  are  three  extensions.  How- 
ever, the  Mi.hna  can  not  be  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah,  for 
the  reason  that  according  to  him  the  congregation  is  liable  to 
bring  a  bullock  in  case  its  majority  have  sinned  erroneously, 
while  according  to  the  sages  the  court  must  bring  it.  Therefore, 
our  Mishna  must  be  interpreted  to  mean  that  the  court  has 
decreed  and  only  the  minority  has  acted  thereupon,  and  the 
point  of  their  diti'erence  is  that  according  to  one  an  individual 
acting  on  the  basis  of  the  court's  decree  is  free,  while  according 
to  the  other  he  is  liable.  R.  Papa,  however,  said :  All  agree  that 
in  such  a  case  the  transgressor  is  free,  and  their  point  of 
difference  is  that  one  holds :  The  court  is  completing  the 
majority  of  the  congregation,  while  the  other  does  not 
hold  so. 

R.  Assi  said :  In  a  decision  for  practising,  it  is  not  the 
majority  of  the  congregation  but  that  of  all  the  population  that 
must  be  considered,  as  [I  Kings  viii,  65],  "  And  Solomon  held 
at  that  time  the  feast,  and  all  Israel  with  him,  a  great  assembly, 
from  the  entrance  of  Chamath  unto  the  river  of  Egypt,  before 
the  Lord  our  God,  seven  days  and  seven  days,  even  fourteen 
days,"  now,  as  it  is  written,  "  and  all  Israel  with  him,"  what  for, 
then,  yet  the  description,  "  great  assembly  from  the  entrance  of 
Chamath  unto  the  river  of  Egypt  "  ?  To  teach  that  in  such  a 
decision  (as  to  abolish  the  day  of  atonement)  the  population  of 
the  whole  land  is  considered  the  assembly. 

R.  Jonathan  said :  If  there  were  one  hundred  assembled  to 
decide  some  point,  there  is  no  liability  (attached  to  the  trans- 
gression of  the  decision)  unless  the  decree  was  made  unan- 
imously, as  it  reads  [Lev.  iy.  13]  :  "  And  if  the  whole  congrega- 
tion of  Israel  sin,"  which  means  that  11  sin  by  error,  and  that 
the  decision  be  brought  about  unanimously.  Said  R.  Huna  b. 
R,  Ashia :  It  seems  to  be  so,  since  with  regard  to  all  the  laws  of 
the  Torah  there  is  a  tradition  that  the  majority  is  equivalent  to 
the  whole,  and  here  it  reads,  "  the  whole  congregation,"  i.e.,  it 
must  be  the  zvJwIc  of  the  body,  so  that  if  there  were  one  hundred 
their  decision  must  be  unanimous. 

An  objection  was  raised  from  our  Mishna  which  states  that 


6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

he  is  liable  if  "  he  has  not  based  his  transgression  upon  the 
decree  of  the  court,"  whence  it  follows  by  implication  that  if 
another  one  (not  so  qualified)  acted  thus  he  would  be  free ;  why 
so,  since  in  this  the  decree  was  no  longer  unanimous  (as  one  of 
the  members  deviates)?  It  means  here  that  this  one  member 
has  also  nodded  his  head  affirmatively  (while  the  vote  was 
taken). 

R.  Mesharshia  objected  from  the  following:  Our  masters 
have  relied  upon  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  and  R.  Elazar  b.  Zadok, 
who  have  decided  that  no  decree  must  be  promulgated  unless 
the  majority  of  the  congregation  is  able  to  comply  with  it ;  and 
R.  Ada  b.  Aba  said :  Where  is  there  an  allusion  thereto  in  the 
Scripture?  [Mai.  iii.  9]  :  "  With  curse  are  ye  cursed,  and  yet  me 
do  ye  rob,  O  ye  entire  nation."  Now,  here  is  written  the  entire 
nation  and  nevertheless  the  majority  is  equivalent  to  the  whole; 
hence,  R.  Jonathan's  view  is  wholly  overthrown,  and  the  ex- 
pression in  the  Scripture  (cited  above),  "  the  whole  congrega- 
tion "  means :  if  the  whole  is  able  to  comply  with  the  decree  it  is 
considered,  but  not  otherwise. 

MISHNA  //. :  If  upon  issuing  the  decree  the  court  becomes 
aware  of  its  being  conceived  in  error  and  retracts,  and  mean- 
while an  individual  commits  a  transgression  upon  that  decree 
either  before  or  after  the  court  succeeded  to  bring  its  atoning 
offering,  he  is  freeaccordingto  R.  Simeon,  while  R.  Elazar  classes 
it  among  the  doubtful  cases.  In  what  sense  is  it  doubtful?  He 
may  have  stayed  at  his  home,  then  he  is  liable ;  but  if  he  was  in 
the  sea  countries  he  is  free.  Said  R.  Aqiba :  I  agree  that  in  the 
latter  case  he  is  rather  free  than  liable.  Whereupon  Ben  Azai 
asked :  What  difference  is  there  between  the  two  cases?  It  con- 
sists in  that  he  who  stays  at  home  can  possibly  hear  (of  the 
retraction),  while  to  the  other  one  this  is  impossible. 

If  the  court  decided  to  annihilate  a  law  in  its  very  essence, 
by  saying,  e.g.,  that  there  is  not  in  the  Torah  the  law  of  menses, 
of  Sabbath,  of  idolatry,  the  members  of  the  court  are  free  (from 
an  offering) ;  but  if  it  decided  to  abolish  only  one  part  of  a 
law  retaining  in  force  the  other  part,  they  are  liable.  How  so? 
If  it  decided,  e.g.,  that,  though  the  law  of  menses  is  in  the  Torah, 
a  man  who  has  sexual  relations  with  a  woman  in  her  watching 
days  is  free;  or,  that  he  who  transports  something  from  private 
to  public  grounds  is  free  though  the  law  of  Sabbath  is  in  the 
Torah ;  or,  that  the  Torah  truly  forbids  idol  worship,  yet  he 
who  bows  to  the  idol  is  free — the  court  is  liable,  for  it  reads 


TRACT    HORIOTH    (DECISIONS).  7 

(Lev.  iv.  13):  "And  the  thing  be  hidden,"  i.e.,  somcthingy  but 
not  the  whole  essence. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  R. 
Simeon  used  to  say  that  if  one  acted  upon  a  decision  issued  by 
the  majority  of  the  congregation,  he  is  free ;  because  a  decision 
discriminates  between  intentional  and  unintentional  acting,  and 
here  the  transgressor,  guided  in  his  act  by  the  decision,  sins  un- 
intentionally (though  he  acts  intentionally),  and  according  to 
Rabh  R.  Simeon  is  consistent  with  his  own  theory  elsewhere 
that  the  bullock  for  the  forgetting  by  the  congregation,  and  the 
he-goat  for  idolatry,  are  to  be  brought  from  the  treasury  of 
the  temple. 

There  is  a  Boraitha.  In  the  case  mentioned  in  the  Mishna, 
R.  Mair  makes  him  liable,  and  R.  Simeon  holds  him  free,  while 
R,  Elazar  finds  this  case  to  be  doubtful ;  and  in  the  name  of 
Symachos  such  was  said  to  be  a  pending  case.  Said  R.  Johanan: 
They  differ  concerning  a  pending-offering.  Said  R.  Zera:  R. 
Elazar's  decision  is  like  that  regarding  the  case  where  one  con- 
sumes fat  doubtful  whether  it  is  legal  or  illegal,  and  thereafter 
he  became  aware  that  it  was  doubtful,  he  is  to  bring  a  pending 
offering;  and  not  only  according  to  him  who  obliges  the  con- 
gregation to  bring  such  an  offering,  as  such  an  act  is  known  to 
every  one,  hence,  if  the  transgressor  has  acted  after  the  congre- 
gation brought  its  atoning  offering,  in  which  case  it  cannot 
possibly  be  said  that  he  in  his  act  guided  himself  by  the  court's 
decree, — but  even  according  to  him  who  obliges  the  court  to 
such  an  offering,  which  may  be  not  known  to  everybody,  the 
transgressor  is  also  liable,  since  he  could  find  this  out  upon  in- 
vestigating. 

R.  Jose  b.  Abin,  according  to  others  b.  Zebida,  likens  Sy- 
machos' decision  to  that  regarding  the  case  where  one  brings 
his  atoning  offering  at  twilight,  which  makes  the  atonement 
doubtful,  since  if  it  was  yet  day  he  is  atoned,  but  if  night  he  is 
not,  and  none  the  less  he  is  not  obliged  to  bring  another  offer- 
ing. 

"  Ben  Azai  asked,"  etc.  Is  not  Ben  Azai  right?  The  differ- 
ence between  them  is  the  case  when  the  transgressor  has  just 
set  out  on  his  journey;  according  to  Ben  Azai  he  is  liable, 
while  according  to  R.  Aqiba  he  is  free  as  soon  as  he  starts  on 
his  way. 

"  //  the  court  decided  to  annihilate,"  etc.  Said  R.  Jehudah,  in 
the  name  of  Samuel :  The  court  is  not  liable  unless  it  has  decided 


8  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

upon  a  point  which  the  Sadducees  do  not  admit,  but  where  they 
do,  it  is  not  considered  an  error,  since  even  a  child  knows  such 
a  point,  and  the  court  is  accordingly  free. 

MISHNA  ///. :  If  while  the  court  was  deciding,  one  of  its 
members  who  perceived  their  error  drew  their  attention  to  it, 
or  if  the  presiding  judge  was  absent,  or  one  of  them  was  a 
proselyte,  a  bastard,  a  nation,  or  an  aged  man  who  had  no 
children,  they  are  free ;  on  the  ground  of  the  following  analogy 
[Lev,  iv.  3]  :  the  expression  congregation  is  used  and  [Numb. 
XXXV.  24]  the  same  expression,  it  is  inferred  thus:  just  as  there 
the  expression  means  a  congregational  meeting  whose  members 
are  singly  and  severally  qualified  to  decide  law  questions,  in 
the  latter  case  it  means  the  same. 

GEMARA :  "  TJie  presiding  judge,"  etc.  Whence  is  this 
deduced?  Said  R.  Sheshith :  It  is  likewise  found  in  a  Boraitha 
of  the  disciples  of  R.  Ismael,  viz. :  Why  was  it  said  that  if  the 
court  decides  on  a  point  which  the  Sadducees  admit,  it  is  free? 
Because  this  is  not  considered  an  error  but  a  fact  of  ignorance, 
as  the  members  of  the  court  ought  to  have  learned ;  the  same  is 
the  case  here  where  the  presiding  justice  was  absent,  some 
one  of  the  members  ought  to  substitute  him,  and  as  there  was 
none  competent  to  do  so  they  are  ignorants  who  ought  to 
learn. 

"  The  expression  congregation''  etc.  And  whence  do  we 
know  that  there  they  are  fit  to  decide  questions?  Said  R. 
Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  It  reads  [Ex.  xviii.  22]:  "With  thee," 
i.e.,  such  as  are  equal  to  you. 

MISHNA  IV. :  If  the  court  decided  in  error,  causing  the 
whole  people  to  act  erroneously,  a  bullock  is  to  be  offered ;  but 
if  the  court  decided  intentionally  (against  the  law)  and  the 
people  acted  in  error,  a  sheep  or  goat  is  to  be  sacrificed  (by 
each  individual  transgressor).  If,  however,  the  reverse  was  the 
case,  all  are  free. 

GEMARA:  It  states:  If  the  court  decided  unintentionally 
and  the  people  acted  intentionally,  they  are  all  free,  whence  it 
follows  by  implication  that  if  the  unintentional  act  was  equal 
to  an  intentional  one,  i.e.,  done  independently  of  the  court's 
decree,  one  is  liable;  and  what  case  would  illustrate  this?  E.g., 
the  court  decided  that  fat  is  legal  and  one  has  consumed  such 
in  the  belief  that  it  is  legal,  whence  could  be  solved  the  question 
propounded  above  by  Rami  b.  Hama?  Nay,  it  may  be  ^aid 
that  because  in  the  first  part  it  speaks  of  an  intentional  decision 


TRACT    HORIOTH    (DECISIONS).  9 

and  of  subsequent  unintentional  act,  it  expresses  in  the  last  part 
the  reverse. 

MISHNA  v.:  If  upon  the  erroneous  decree  of  the  court 
the  whole  people,  or  its  majority,  acted,  a  bullock  is  to  be 
brought ;  or,  in  case  the  decree  referred  to  idol  worship,  a  bul- 
lock and  a  he-goat ;  so  holds  R.  Mair,  while  R.  Jehudah  says : 
Twelve  tribes  bring  12  bullocks,  and  in  the  case  of  idol  worship 
yet  12  he-goats  in  addition.  R.  Simeon  says:  13  bullocks  in  the 
one  and  13  bullocks  plus  13  he-goats  in  the  other  case  respect- 
ively, thus  making  one  bullock  with  one  he-goat  to  each  tribe, 
and  one  such  pair  for  the  court.  If  but  seven  tribes  or  the 
majority  (of  the  people)  acted  upon  the  decree,  the  court 
members  must  bring  a  bullock,  and  in  case  of  idolatry  also  a 
he-goat,  so  holds  R.  Mair,  while  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  the 
7  tribes  that  sinned  should  bring  7  bullocks,  and  the  innocent 
remaining  tribes  also  sacrifice  one  bullock  for  the  sinners.  R. 
Simeon  maintains  his  foregoing  view,  reducing  the  number  of 
the  sacrifices  from  13  to  8. 

If  a  tribal  court  caused  by  its  erroneous  decision  the  tribe 
to  act  accordingly,  only  this  tribe  is  liable,  while  all  the  others 
are  free,  so  holds  R.  Jehudah ;  the  sages,  however,  maintain  that 
only  those  are  liable  who  act  on  the  decree  of  the  supreme 
court,  for  it  reads  [Lev.  iv.  13]  :  "  If  the  whole  congregation 
of  Israel  sin  through  ignorance,"  hence  not  that  of  a  single 
tribe. 

GEMARA :  The  rabbis  taught :  If  the  court  was  aware  that 
its  decision  was  erroneous,  lest  one  say  that  it  is  liable,  it  reads 
[Lev.  iv.  14] :  "  The  sin  becometh  known,"  but  not  the  sinner, 
"  through  which  they  have  sinned,"  i.e.,  if  there  were  two  tribes 
they  bring  two  bullocks;  three,  three  bullocks,  and  so  forth. 
But  perhaps  it  means :  If  two  individuals  have  sinned,  they 
must  bring  two  bullocks,  and  if  three,  three,  and  so  on?  To 
this  it  reads :  "  The  congregation  shall  olTer,"  i.e.,  each  congre- 
gation, as  well  as  the  congregation  at  large,  is  liable;  how  so? 
If  there  were  two  tribes,  they  bring  two,  and  if  seven  tribes, 
they  bring  seven,  and  all  other  tribes  who  have  not  sinned 
should  also  each  of  them  bring  a  bullock,  since,  though  they 
have  not  sinned,  they  must  conjoin  themselves  to  the  sinning 
tribes,  as  for  this  purpose  it  reads  "  the  congregation,"  to  make 
liable  each  of  them.  So  R.  Jehudah.  R.  Simeon,  however, 
said :  The  seven  tribes  that  have  sinned  bring  seven,  and  the 
court  brings  one  bullock  in  addition,  for,  as  here  congregation 


lo  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

is  used  and  there  the  same  term,  hence,  just  as  there  the  court 
zvith  the  congregation  is  meant,  the  same  is  the  case  here.  R. 
Mair.  however,  said;  If  the  seven  tribes  have  sinned,  the  court 
brings  only  one  bullock,  and  oil  are  free  for  the  same  reason; 
as  congregation  mentioned  above  means  only  the  court,  the 
same  is  the  case  here.  And  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said,  in  the 
name  of  R.  Mair:  If  six  tribes  have  sinned,  and  they  formed 
the  majority  of  all  Israel,  or  seven  tribes,  though  not  forming 
the  majority  of  Israel,  only  one  bullock  must  be  brought. 

"  //  a  tribal  court/'  etc.  The  school-men  propounded  a 
question:  If  one  tribe  has  sinned,  guided  by  the  decree  of  the 
supreme  court,  may  the  other  tribes  conjoin  with  it  to  bring 
bullocks  or  not?  Shall  we  assume  that  only  to  seven  tribes  con- 
joining takes  place,  but  not  to  one,  which  does  not  form 
majority,  or  since  it  acted  upon  the  decree  of  the  court  there 
is  no  difference  whether  one  or  seven?  Come  and  hear:  R. 
Jehudah  said :  If  one  tribe  has  acted  in  accordance  with  its 
court,  it  alone  is  liable,  but  if  it  acted  according  to  the  decision  of 
the  supreme  court,  all  the  other  tribes  are  also  liable.  Said  R. 
Ashi:  Itl  seems  to  be  so  also  from  our  Mishna,  which  states, 
"  only  this  tribe  is  liable,  while  all  the  others  are  free  " ;  to  what 
purpose  does  it  add,  "  while  all  the  others,"  etc.,  after  it  states 
"  only  this  tribe,"  etc  ?  To  teach  us,  thus :  Only  in  the  case  of  its 
own  court,  but  if  it  is  a  case  of  the  supreme  court,  all  the  others 
are  also  liable. 

But  let  us  see,  whence  do  both  R.  Jehudah  and  R.  Simeon 
deduce  that  one  tribe  is  also  called  Kalial,  i.e.,  congregation  (of 
all  Israel)?  From  [II  Chron.  xx.  5]:  "And  Jehoshaphat 
stood  forward  in  the  KaJial  of  Judah  and  Jerusalem."  R.  A'ha 
b.  Jacob  opposed :  Perhaps  there  it  was  KaJial,  because  the 
tribe  Benjamin,  too,  was  there,  hence  more  than  one  tribe? 
Therefore,  says  he,  it  is  deduced  from  [Gen.  xlviii.  4] :  "And 
I  will  make  of  thee  a  Kolial  of  people  " ;  now,  at  that  time  Ben- 
jamin was  born,  and  you  infer  from  here  that  so  said  the 
Merciful  One  to  Jacob:  one  Kahal  more  is  born  to  you.  Said 
Shba  to  R.  Kahana:  But  perhaps  the  Merciful  meant,  now  as 
Benjamin  is  born,  and  you  have  twelve  tribes  you  are  called  a 
Kahal?  And  he  answered:  Do  you  mean  to  say  that  eleven 
tribes  are  not  called  Kahal? 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  member  of  the  congregation  dies, 
the  liability  does  not  cease,  but  if  one  member  of  the  court  dies, 
it  does  cease.    According  to  what  Tana  is  this   Said  R.  'Hisda, 


TRACT    HORIOTH    (DECISIONS).  u 

in  the  name  of  R.  Zera,  in  the  name  of  R.  Jeremiah,  quoting 
Rabh :  It  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Mair,  who  said  that  the  court 
and  not  the  congregation  brings  the  offering;  hence,  if  a 
member  of  the  court  dies,  it  means  one  of  the  partners  to  the 
sin-offering  died,  and  in  such  a  case  the  sin-offering  can  not 
be  brought. 

R.  Joseph  opposed :  Why  not  say  on  the  same  reasoning 
Hues  that  it  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon,  who  says  that  the 
court  with  the  congregation  must  bring  the  offering?  Said 
Abaye  to  him :  We  have  heard  R.  Simeon  saying  elsewhere  that 
a  sin-offering  of  partners  is  not  put  to  death :  If  the  bullock  and 
he-goat  of  the  day  of  atonement  upon  being  lost  were  sub- 
stituted by  others,  and  thereafter  the  first  were  found,  they  all 
are  put  to  death  (because  none  of  them  is  fit  for  the  altar) ;  so 
R.  Jehudah.  R.  Elazar  and  R.  Simeon,  however,  maintain  that 
they  must  be  kept  until  they  become  blemished,  as  there  is  a 
rule  that  a  sin-offering  of  a  congregation  is  not  put  to  death. 
Rejoined  R.  Joseph :  You  speak  of  priests,  an  entirely  different 
case,  as  they  are  themselves  called  Kahal  [Lev.  xvi.  33] :  *'  For 
all  the  priests  and  for  all  the  people  of  the  Kahal."  Answered 
Abaye :  According  to  this  they  ought  to  bring  a  bullock  for  an 
erroneous  decision  by  their  own  court ;  and  should  you  say 
that  such  is  the  case,  then  there  will  be  more  than  twelve 
tribes !  Thereupon  said  R.  A'ha  b.  Jacob  that  the  tribe  of  Levi 
is  not  called  Kahal  at  all,  as  from  the  above  cited  verse  [Gen.], 
it  is  to  be  understood  that  they  who  inherited  landed  property 
in  Jerusalem  are  called  a  tribe,  but  not  the  Levites,  who  had  no 
such  inheritance.  But  if  so  there  are  fewer  than  twelve  tribes  ? 
Said  Abaye:  It  reads  there  [ibid.]  that  Ephraim  and  Menashah 
(the  two  sons  of  Joseph)  are  considered  as  Rubin  and  Simion  : 
i.e.,  as  two  tribes.  Said  Rabha:  Does  it  not  read  [ibid.,  ibid. 
6]  :  "After  the  name  of  their  brothers  shall  they  be  called"? 
The  answer  is:  They  are  called  after  the  brothers'  name  only 
in  respect  of  inheritance,  but  not  in  other  respects.  But  are 
they  not  all  divided  into  flag-division?  This  was  only  to  honor 
the  flags,  as  the  division  of  the  inheritance  took  place  in  accord- 
ance with  the  flag-divisions.  But  are  they  not  divided  accord- 
ing to  their  respective  princes?  This  also  was  done  to  honor 
the  princes;  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha: 
Solomon  has  celebrated  seven  days  the  dedication  of  the 
temple;  why  did  Moses  celebrate  twelve  days  the  tabernacle? 
To  honor  the  princes. 


CHAPTER  II. 

MISHNA  /. :  If  an  anointed  priest  has  erroneously  rendered 
an  unlawful  decision  against  himself  and  acted  accordingly  by 
mistake,  he  must  sacrifice  a  bullock.  But  if  the  decision  was  con- 
ceived in  error  and  the  act  performed  intentionally  or  vice  versa, 
he  is  free ;  for  the  decision  of  an  anointed  priest  with  regard  to 
himself  is  equivalent  to  a  decision  of  the  court  for  the  people. 

GEMARA :  ^^Erroneously  .  .  .  acted  accordingly  by  mistake'' 
Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  Said  Ahaye :  It  speaks  of  a  case  where 
he  forgot  the  reason  of  his  decision,  and  when  he  acted  he  said 
that  he  acts  in  accordance  with  the  decision,  lest  one  say  that  in 
such  a  case  it  is  considered  an  intentional  act,  since  if  he  remem- 
bered the  reason  of  the  decision  he  would  not  act,  it  comes  to 
teach  that  it  is  not  so. 

^^  But  if  the  decision  .  .  .  in  error  and  the  act  performed  in- 
tentionally,'' etc.  Whence  is  this  deduced  ?  From  what  the  rabbis 
taught :  it  reads  [Lev.  iv.,  3]  "  to  bring  guiltiness  on  the  people," 
which  seems  superfluous  in  this  connection,  but  comes  to  teach 
that  he  [the  priest]  is  equal  to  the  congregation  ;  a  fact  that 
could  be  inferred  without  a  special  verse,  i.e.  the  congregation  is 
exempt  from  the  laws  governing  the  individual,  and  so  is  the 
anointed  priest  ;  hence,  as  the  congregation  is  liable  but  for  for- 
getting and  for  acting  erroneously,  the  same  should  be  with  the 
anointed  priest ;  or,  on  the  other  hand,  a  prince  is  exempt  from 
the  laws  of  an  individual,  and  so  is  an  anointed  priest :  as  the 
former  is  liable  for  erroneous  acting  without  forgetting,  the  same 
should  be  with  the  latter  ;  it  thus  remains  to  see  to  whom  is  he 
[the  priest]  equal  as  regards  his  offering  :  the  congregation  brings 
a  bullock,  but  not  a  pending  trespass  offering,  and  the  same  does 
the  anointed  priest  bring ;  hence,  as  the  congregation  is  liable 
but  for  forgetting  and  erroneous  acting,  so  also  is  the  anointed 
priest.  But  why  not  say  :  As  in  case  one  acts  in  accordance  with 
the  congregation's  decree,  he  is  liable,  the  same  should  be  if  one 
acts  according  to  the  decision  of  the  anointed  priest  ?  It  reads 
[ibid.]  :  "  ¥  or  his  sin,  and  not  for  the  sin  of  another."  And  whence 
is  it  deduced  that  the  anointed  priest  does  not  bring  a  pending 

za 


TRACT    HORIOTK    (DECISIONS).  13 

trespass  offering?  From  [ibid,  v.,  18]  "  concerning  his  sin  of 
ignorance,"  which  signifies  :  only  for  him  whose  sin  and  erroneous 
act  are  considered  equal  {i.e.  where  both  decision  and  acting  were 
performed  in  error),  exclude  the  anointed  priest,  who  is  liable  but 
for  forgetting  and  for  erroneous  acting. 

MISHNA  //.:  If  he  (the  said  priest)  both  decided  and  acted 
for  himself,  he  brings  his  atoning  sacrifice  separately.  If,  how- 
ever, he  both  decided  and  acted  jointly  with  the  congregation, 
he  brings  with  latter  a  joint  atoning  sacrifice.  Like  the  court, 
that  is  liable  only  when  it  effects  a  decision  partly  annulling 
partly  confirming  the  law,  so  also  the  anointed  priest,  and  even 
if  the  law  in  question  be  one  regarding  idol  worship. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  this  deduced  ?  from  what  the  rabbis 
taught :  if  he  has  both  decided  and  acted  together  with  the  con- 
gregation, lest  one  say  he  is  to  bring  a  bullock  separately,  we 
infer  from  the  case  of  a  prince :  as  a  prince  is  exempt  from  the 
laws  governing  an  individual  and  so  is  the  anointed  priest,  too, 
the  same  is  the  case  here,  viz.:  as  the  prince  is  to  bring  a  sepa- 
rate offering  when  he  sins  separately,  but  when  he  sins  with  the 
congregation  he  is  atoned  for  by  its  offering,  the  same  is  the  case 
with  the  anointed  priest ;  on  the  other  hand,  a  prince  is  atoned 
for  together  with  the  congregation  on  the  day  of  atonement, 
which  is  not  the  case  with  the  anointed  priest,  and  as  he  (priest) 
needs  a  separate  offering  on  the  day  of  atonement,  the  same 
should  be  the  case  if  he  has  sinned  together  with  the  congrega- 
tion; — against  this  the  afore-cited  verse  [Lev.  iv.  3],  which  signi- 
fies that  if  he  sins  separately,  he  brings  a  seperate  offering,  and 
if  he  sins  with  the  congregation  he  need  not  bring  a  separate 
offering. 

But  let  us  see  the  nature  of  the  case :  if  he  was  the  presiding 
justice,  then  only  his  decision  must  be  taken  into  consideration, 
as  the  opinion  of  the  rest  counts  for  nothing,  and  it  is  obvious 
that  the  atonements  must  be  separate ;  and  if  he  was  not  presid- 
ing, why  should  he  be  atoned  for  separately  when  kis  opinion  in 
this  case  does  not  count  ?  Said  R.  Papa :  it  means  that  he  was 
equal  to  the  others. 

Abaye  was  about  to  say  that  "  he  sinned  separately  "  means : 
in  a  different  place ;  but  Rabha  said  to  him  :  does  the  difference 
in  place  cause  the  separation  ?  it  may  be  even  in  one  and  the 
same  place  but  concerning  different  prohibitions,  and  then  it  is 
considered  separate  sinning. 

''Partly  annulling^'  etc.     Whence  is  this  deduced?     From 


14  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

what  was  said  in  the  Chapter  I  :  by  forgetting  something  and  not 
the  whole,  and  whence  is  it  deduced  that  the  same  is  the  case 
with  the  anointed  priest  ?  from  what  is  discussed  above  :  "  To 
bring  guiltiness  on  the  people."  Finally,  whence  is  deduced  that 
the  same  is  the  case  concerning  idolatry  ?  From  what  the  rabbis 
taught  :  lest  one  say  that  because  concerning  idolatry  there  is  a 
special  verse,  it  should  hence  be  treated  differently, — there  is  an 
analogy  of  expression  :  "  From  the  eyes,"  found  in  both  cases 
(idolatry  and  other  sins)  to  teach  that  they  are  equal  in  all  re- 
spects. 

MISHNA  ///. :  The  conditions  determining  the  liability  of 
both  the  courts  and  the  anointed  priest  are :  Their  ignorance  of 
the  thing  during  the  rendering  of  the  decision,  and  the  subsequent 
erroneous  acting.  The  same  conditions  hold  in  decisions  regard- 
ing idol  worship. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  this  deduced?  From  what  the  rabbis 
taught:  it  reads  [Lev.  iv.  13]  "Through  ignorance,  and  a  thing 
be  hidden,"  whence  we  see  that  both  ignorance  and  forgetting 
are  necessary.  The  deduction  of  the  case  of  the  anointed  priest 
is  again  as  above.  As  to  idolatry,  lest  one  say :  it  was  separately 
taught,  hence  it  requires  different  treatment,  comes  the  analogy 
of  expression  to  teach  as  above.  Thus  we  see  that  it  does  not 
teach  concerning  the  anointed  priest  regarding  idolatry  ;  whence 
it  may  be  said  that  our  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  Rabbi  of 
the  following  Boraitha :  If  the  anointed  priest  has  sinned  in  a  case 
of  idolatry,  according  to  Rabbi,  he  is  liable  for  erroneous  acting, 
and,  according  to  the  rabbis,  for  forgetting ;  all,  however,  agree 
that  his  offering  must  be  a  she-goat  and  that  he  is  not  under  the 
category  of  those  who  bring  a  pending  trespass  offering,  and 
Rabbi's  reason  is  from  [Num.  xv.  28] :  "  And  the  priest  shall  make 
an  atonement  for  the  person  that  hath  erred  "  ;  "  for  the  person" 
means  the  anointed  priest ;  "  that  hath  erred  "  means  the  prince  ; 
"  in  his  sinning  through  ignorance  "  means  according  to  Rabbi 
that  the  sinning  of  each  of  the  two  must  be  through  ignorance, 
while  according  to  the  rabbis  this  part  applies  only  to  him  who 
sins  through  ignorance,  exclude  the  anointed  priest  who  sins 
through  forgetting;  and  whence  do  they  deduce  that  he  like  any 
other  individual  must  bring  a  she-goat  ?  From  the  above-cited 
verse  [ibid.,  ibid.  27] :  "  And  if  any  person  sin,"  i.e.,  any  one  :  com- 
mon, priest,  prince,  etc. 

And  whence  is  it  deduced  that  he  does  not  bring  a  pending 
trespass-offering?  From   [ibid.  v.  18J  "for  his  ignorance,"  which 


TRACT   HORIOTH   (DECISIONS).  15 

can  not  mean  the  priest  in  question  who  sins  by  forgetting.  On 
the  other  hand,  according  to  the  rabbis,  it  intends  to  exclude  the 
anointed  who  sins  in  any  case  whatsoever  not  by  erroneous  acting 
alone,  but  when  such  is  accompanied  by  forgetting. 

MISHNA  IV. :  The  court  is  not  liable  unless  the  issued 
decree  concerns  a  command  the  intentional  and  unintentional 
violation  of  which  entail  Korath  and  sin-offering  respectively; 
the  same  is  the  case  with  the  anointed  priest.  The  same  refers 
to  the  case  of  idol  worship. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  this  deduced?  As  stated  in  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha  :  Rabbi  said  :  It  reads  [Levi.  v.  5]  :  "  Alehu  " 
[ibid,  xviii.  18]  :  "  Olehu,''  as  there  it  is  a  case  of  Korath  and  a 
sin-offering,  the  same  is  the  case  here.  And  the  deduction  that 
the  same  applies  to  the  anointed  priest  is  made  as  above.  As  to 
a  prince,  it  is  inferred  from  the  analogy  of  expression  [ibid.  iv. 
22]:  "  Prohibitions  "  (J///^2/c//^),  found  also  [ibid.  ibid.  13]  con- 
cerning the  congregation  ;  now,  as  the  latter  treats  of  things  the 
transgression  of  which  is,  if  intentional  under  Korath,  and  if  un- 
intentional under  sin-offering,  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  prince ; 
while  concerning  a  common  individual  it  reads  [ib.  ibid.  27] :  "  If 
any  person  "  to  infer  this  last  from  the  previous  one. 

"  The  same  refers  to  the  case  of  idol  ivorship!'  Whence  is  this 
deduced  ?  From  what  the  rabbis  taught :  because  idolatry  is 
mentioned  specially,  hence  it  should  be  treated  differently,  so 
that  one  be  culpable  even  when  the  sin  is  not  under  the  category 
of  Korath,  etc.,  therefore  the  analogy  of  expression  "  from  his 
eyes,"  as  there  it  is  under  the  category  of  Korath,  so  also  here. 

But  this  is  concerning  the  congregation ;  whence  do  we  know 
this  with  regard  to  the  anointed  priest,  prince,  individual  ?  From 
[ibid.  ib.  27]:  ''Any  person,"  i.e.,  any:  be  he  priest,  prince,  etc. 
But  again,  all  this  is  correct  according  to  him  who  holds  the  an- 
logy  of  expression  Olehu  ;  but  to  the  rabbis  who  do  not  hold  so, 
whence  is  this  deduced  ?  From  what  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi  taught 
to  his  son  [Num.  xv.  29,  30]  :  "  One  law  shall  be  for  you,  for 
him  that  acteth  through  ignorance.  But  the  person  that  doth 
aught  with  a  high  hand,"  etc.,  this  compares  all  the  laws  of  the 
Torah  to  idolatry :  as  latter  is  under  both  Korath  and  sin-offering, 
so  also  all  other  cases  of  the  same  category.  But  from  here  you 
infer  only  an  individual,  a  ruler,  and  an  anointed  priest ;  whence 
do  we  know  that  the  same  is  the  case  with  the  congregation  ? 
Infer  the  first  verse  [13]  from  the  last  [27].  We  thus  see  that 
according  to  all,  the  cited  verses  [Num.  xv.  29,  30]  speak  of  idol- 


i6  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

atry,  how  is  it  so  understood  ?  Said  Rabha,  according  to  others, 
R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi;  according  to  still  others,  Khdi :  it  reads 
[ibid.  ib.  22]  :  "  and  do  not  observe  all  these  commandments  " ; 
now,  a  negative  commandment  that  is  in  importance  equal  to  all 
other  negatives  is,  you  must  say,  idolatry. 

The  disciples  of  Rabbi  infer  this  from  the  same  verse  [22  and 
23]  "  which  the  Lord  hath  spoken  unto  Moses,  all  that  the 
Lord  hath  commanded  you  by  the  hand  of  Moses,"  and  a  com- 
mandment said,  in  the  words  of  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
and  commanded  again  by  the  hand  of  Moses  is  of  idolatry ;  as 
the  disciples  of  R.  Ismael  taught  that  the  commandment  "  I  am 
the  Lord  ;  thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me,"  we  have 
heard  from  the  Almighty  Himself;  and  thereafter  it  was  com- 
manded through  Moses  in  many  other  places. 

MISHNA  v.:  The  court  is  not  liable  for  a  decree  concerning 
a  command  or  a  prohibition  with  regard  to  (polluting)  the  sanc- 
tuary. Nor  must  one  bring  a  pending  offering  for  a  doubtful 
violation  of  the  said  command  or  prohibition.  But  in  case  of 
erroneous  teaching  and  of  doubt,  each  regarding  a  command  or 
prohibition  with  reference  to  a  woman  in  her  menses,  a  bullock 
and  a  pending  offering  are  required  respectively.  The  command 
in  the  case  is :  Keep  away  from  a  woman  in  her  menses.  The 
prohibition  is :  Have  no  sexual  intercourse  with  her. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  it  deduced  that  the  congregation 
is  not  liable  to  any  offering,  while  the  individual  is  not  liable  to 
a  pending  offering  either?  Said  R.  Itz'hak  b.  R.  Dimi,  it  reads 
[Lev.  iv.  27]:  "  and  become  guilty  "  concerning  a  sin  and  pending 
offering,  and  also  [ibid.,  ibid.  13]:  "and  they  become  guilty," 
which  signifies:  as  the  guiltiness  of  an  individual  is  attended 
with  a  sin  offering  established  for  all,  so  also  the  guiltiness  of  the 
congregation  is  attended  with  such  an  offering ;  and  as  the  latter's 
offering  is  an  established  one,  so  also  the  pending  offering  must 
be  brought  only  for  the  doubt  about  a  transgression  to  which  an 
established  offering  applies,  but  not  about  that  of  the  sanctuary 
to  which  a  rich  and  poor  offering  applies. 

MISHNA  VI.  \  There  is  no  liability  when  the  decree  con- 
cerns an  adjuring  challenge  to  testify,  a  hastily  made  vow,  the 
defilement  of  the  temple  and  its  holy  objects;  the  same  is  the 
case  with  the  ruler,  so  R.  Jose  the  Galilean.  R.  Aqiba,  however, 
says :  The  ruler  is  liable  in  all  these  cases  but  the  first  one,  for 
the  king  can  neither  judge  nor  be  judged,  neither  testify  for 
others  nor  have  others  testify  for  him. 


TRACT   HORIOTH    (DECISIONS).  17 

GEMARA :  Said  Ula :  What  is  the  reason  of  R.  Jose  the 
Galilean  ?  [Lev.  v.  5]  "  And  it  shall  be,  if  he  have  incurred  guilt 
by  any  one  of  these  [things],  that  he  shall  confess  that  concerning 
which  he  hath  sinned,"  which  speaks  of  all  that  are  treated  of  in 
the  Mishna,  and  which  signifies  that  he  who  may  be  guilty  for 
one  of  these  may  be  guilty  also  for  the  others,  but  who  is  not 
guilty  for  one  of  these  is  not  so  for  the  others  either.  But  per- 
haps  the  verse  means  that  if  he  incur  guilt  even  for  one  of  these  ? 
Therefore  it  must  be  said  that  the  reason  of  R.  Jose  the  Galilean 
is  the  following  Boraitha :  R.  Jeremian  used  to  say :  It  reads 
[ibid.,  ibid.  7],  "  And  if  his  means  be  not  sufficient,"  and  then 
[ibid.,  ibid.  11],"  If  he  can  not  afford."  All  this  speaks  of  persons 
that  can  be  classed  as  poor  and  rich,  which  is  not  the  case  with 
either  priest  or  ruler,  as  concerning  the  latter  it  reads  [ibid.,  ibid. 
22]  "of  the  Lord  his  God,"  which  signifies  him  who  has  for  his 
superior  only  his  God  ;  and  concerning  the  former  it  reads  [ibid. 
xxi.  10]  :  "  And  the  priest  that  is  highest  among  his  brethren," 
meaning  that  he  is  highest  in  beauty,  in  might,  in  wisdom  and  in 
wealth  ;  and  the  anonymous  teachers  say :  whence  is  it  deduced 
that  if  he  [priest]  is  not  rich  his  people  should  make  him  the 
richest :  from  same  verse  :  "  that  is  highest  among  his  brethren," 
signifying  that  his  brethren  make  him  highest. 

MISHNA  VII.  :  As  regards  all  commandments  of  the  Torah, 
whose  intentional  and  unintentional  violations  entail  respectively 
Korath  and  sin  offering,  a  private  individual  brings  offers  (in  the 
latter  case)  a  (female)  sheep  or  goat,  the  ruler,  a  he-goat ;  the 
high  priest  or  the  supreme  court,  a  bullock.  In  matters  of  idol 
worship  the  private  individual,  ruler  and  priest  bring  a  she-goat, 
while  the  court  (that  has  erroneously  decided)  a  bullock  and  a  he- 
goat,  former  as  burnt  offering,  latter  as  a  sin  offering.  The  pend- 
ding  offering  (for  a  doubtful  malfeasance)  is  imposed  upon  the  ruler 
and  private  persons,  the  anointed  priest  and  the  court  are  free 
therefrom.  The  trespass  offering  (for  a  sure  misdeed)  is  imposed 
besides  the  first  two  also  upon  the  high  priest,  while  the  court  is 
exempt  therefrom.  For  challenging  by  oath  to  testify,  for  a  hast- 
ily made  vow,  for  defiling  the  temple  and  the  holy  objects  thereof, 
the  erroneously  decreeing  court  is  free ;  while  private  indi- 
viduals, the  ruler,  the  high  priest  are  liable ;  with  the  exception, 
hoY^ever,  that  the  last  one  is  according  to  R.  Simeon  not  liable 
in  the  said  case  of  defilement.  And  what  is  the  sacrifice  they 
bring?  A  poor  and  rich  offering.  R.  Eliezar  says:  The  ruler 
brings  (for  temple  defilement)  a  he-goat. 


i8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

GEMARA :  There  is  a  Boraitha :  R.  Simeon  laid  down  thh 
rule  :  In  whatever  an  individual  is  liable  to  a  pending  offering,  the 
ruler  is  equal  to  him,  while  the  anointed  priest  and  the  court  are 
free ;  on  the  other  hand,  In  whatever  a  trespass  offering  applies 
the  ruler  and  the  anointed  priest  are  equal,  while  the  court  is 
free,  viz. :  for  a  witness-oath,  an  uttered  oath  and  the  defilement 
of  the  sanctuary  and  its  holy  objects  the  ruler  and  the  anointed 
are  liable,  and  the  court  is  free  ;  however,  the  ruler  is  not  liable 
for  a  witness-oath  and  the  anointed  for  the  defilement  of  the 
sanctuary,  etc. ;  and  in  an  act  where  a  rich  and  poor  offering 
applies  the  ruler  is  equal,  while  the  anointed  and  the  court  are 
free. 

Now,  is  not  the  Boraitha  involved  in  a  contradiction  concern- 
ing the  liability  of  the  ruler  and  the  priest  ?  Said  R.  Huna  b.  R. 
Jehoshua :  this  presents  no  difficulty ;  as  one  Tana  speaks  of 
poverty,  while  the  other,  of  extreme  poverty,  and  R.  Simeon 
holds  with  R.  Agiqa  concerning  extreme  poverty  when  the  ruler 
is  free  from  that  offering,  but  differs  with  him  concerning  poverty, 
in  which  case  he  holds  the  ruler,  too,  liable. 


CHAPTER   III. 

MISHNA  /. :  An  anointed  priest  who  has  sinned  and  there- 
after was  removed  from  his  office,  and  a  ruler  who  has  sinned 
and  was  removed  from  his  dignity,  the  former  brings  a  bullock 
and  the  latter  a  he-goat.  However,  if  both  have  sinned  after 
they  were  removed  from  their  offices,  the  priest  in  question 
brings  a  bullock  and  the  ex-ruler  is  considered  as  a  common 
man. 

GEMARA:  To  what  purpose  is  it  needed  for  the  Mishna  to 
state  that  when  he  has  sinned  before  the  removal  from  his  office 
he  is  to  bring  a  bullock,  as  the  same  is  the  case  even  if  he  did 
so  after  the  removal?  It  was  necessary  because  of  the  law  that 
a  ruler  after  the  removal  of  his  dignity  is  considered  common. 

Whence  is  this  deduced?  From  what  the  rabbis  taught 
[Lev.  iv.  3]:  "  Shall  he  bring  near  for  his  sin,"  which  signifies 
that  he  has  to  bring  an  offering  for  his  previous  sin.  While 
concerning  a  ruler  it  reads  [ibid.  22]:  "  If  a  ruler  should  sin," 
which  signifies  that  if  he  has  sinned  while  he  is  still  a  ruler,  but 
not  when  he  becomes  common. 

MISHNA  //. :  If  they  were  appointed  to  their  respective 
positions  after  they  had  sinned,  they  are  treated  as  private  per- 
sons. R.  Simeon,  however,  says:  If  they  become  cognizant  of 
their  malfeasance  before  their  appointment,  they  are  liable;  but 
if  after,  they  are  free.  What  is  meant  by  ruler?  A  king,  for  it 
is  stated  [Lev.  iv.  22]:  "  If  a  prince  sins  and  performs  one  of 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord  his  God,"  etc. ;  hence,  a  prince 
who  has  above  him  no  one  but  the  Lord  his  God. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  this  deduced?  From  what  the  rabbis 
taught  [ibid.,  ibid.  3]:  "If  the  anointed  priest  do  sin  to  bring 
guiltiness,"  which  excludes  the  transgressions  he  had  committed 
before  he  was  anointed.  This  could  be  deduced  by  a  fortiori 
argument,  thus:  A  ruler  who  is  liable  to  a  sin-offering  for  an 
erroneous  act  is  not  liable  for  his  acts  before  he  became  a  ruler. 
The  anointed  who  is  liable  for  forgetting  an  erroneous  act,  so 
much  the  less  should  he  be  liable  for  his  ^.revious  acts.  And 
should  you  say  that  with  a  ruler  it  is  different,  as  he  is  not  liable 

19 


«o  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

after  his  removal  from  office,  to  a  sin-offering  for  his  sin  while 
he  was  still  a  ruler,  which  is  not  the  case  with  the  anointed?  To 
this  it  reads  in  the  above-cited  verse  "  the  anointed  has  sinned," 
which  signifies  only  for  that  sin  which  he  committed  while  he 
was  already  in  his  office.  On  the  other  hand,  on  a  fortiori  argu- 
ment could  be  used  to  make  a  ruler  liable  for  his  sin  before  he 
ascended  the  throne,  if  not  for  the  verse  cited  above  concerning 
him. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  A  ruler  who  will  sin,"  lest  one  say  that 
such  is  the  heavenly  decree  that  he  shall  sin,  to  this  it  reads, 
"//"the  anointed  will  sin,"  which  means  if  it  will  happen  so, 
and  the  same  is  with  the  ruler. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "A  ruler  should  sin"  to  exclude  him 
who  was  sick  with  leprosy,  as  it  reads  [II  Kings,  xv.  5] :  "  And 
the  Lord  afflicted  the  king  with  leprosy,  and  he  was  a  leper  unto 
the  day  of  his  death,  and  he  dwelt  in  the  free-house.*  And 
Jotham  the  king's  son,"  etc.  What  does  it  mean,  free-house? 
Was  he  until  that  time  a  servant  or  a  slave?  Yea;  as  it  hap- 
pened with  Raban  Gamaliel  and  R.  Yehoshua,  who  were  on  a 
boat;  the  former  has  prepared  bread  for  food,  and  the  latter 
prepared  bread  and  fine  flour  for  food.  And  when  the  bread  of 
R.  Gamaliel  was  consumed  by  him  he  relied  upon  the  fine  flour 
of  Yehoshua.  And  to  the  question  of  the  former:  Were  you 
aware  that  there  will  be  a  delay  in  the  journey,  that  you  took 
with  you  so  much  food,  he  answered:  There  is  a  star  which  ap- 
pears once  in  seventy  years  that  makes  the  captains  of  the  ships 
err,  and  I  thought  perhaps  it  will  appear  now  and  make  us  err, 
I  therefore  prepared  more  food.  Said  Gamaliel:  You  possess 
so  much  wisdom  and  still  you  are  compelled  to  go  on  a  ship  to 
make  your  living.  And  he  rejoined:  You  are  wondering  about 
myself,  how  would  you  be  surprised  if  you  knew  about  two  dis- 
ciples of  yours  who  are  on  the  land — viz. :  R.  Elasar  Chasma  and 
Johanan  b.  Goodgada,  who  can  imagine  how  many  drops  of 
water  there  are  in  the  sea  and  nevertheless  have  no  bread  to  eat 
and  no  garment  for  dress.  R.  Gamaliel  then  made  up  his  mind 
to  make  them  officers  in  the  best  places  of  the  congregation, 
and  when  he  returned  home  he  sent  for  them,  but  they  did  not 
appear;  he  sent  again  for  them,  and  when  they  came  he  said  to 
them:  Do  you  think  that  the  appointment  to  such  high  offices 
which  I  am  about  to  confer  on  you,  will  make  you  rulers?     Nay; 

*  Leaser's  translation  does  not  correspond. 


TRACT    HORIOTH    (DECISIONS).  21 

slavery  I  give  to  you,  as  it  reads  [I  Kings,  xii.  7]:  "  If  thou  wilt 
this  day  be  a  servant  unto  this  people,"  etc. 

R.  Na'hman  b.  R.  'Hisda  lectured;  it  reads  [Eccl.  viii.  14]: 
"  There  is  a  vanity  which  is  done  upon  the  earth,  that  there  are 
righteous  men  "  ;  happy  are  the  righteous  whose  fate  is  like  that 
of  the  wicked  in  the  world  to  come;  and  woe  is  to  the  wicked 
whose  fate  is  in  this  world  like  that  of  the  righteous  in  the  world 
to  come.  Said  Rabha:  May  not  the  righteous  be  rewarded  in 
both  this  and  the  world  to  come?  Therefore,  said  he,  "  Happy 
are  the  righteous  whose  fate  is  like  the  fate  of  the  wicked  in  this 
world,  and  woe  is  to  the  wicked  whose  fate  is  like  that  of  the 
righteous  in  this  world. 

R.  Papa  and  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua  came  to  Rabha  and 
the  latter  questioned  them  if  they  have  learned  thoroughly  such 
and  such  tracts  of  the  Talmud,  to  which  they  answered  :  "  Yea." 
And  to  his  question:  Have  you  become  a  little  rich  so  that  you 
have  time  to  study  properly?  They  rejoined:  Yea;  as  we 
bought  little  grounds.  He  then  applied  to  them  the  above-cited 
verse. 

Rabha  b.  b.  'Hana  said,  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  it  reads 
[Hos.  xiv.  10]:  "  For  righteous  are  the  ways  of  the  Lord;  and 
the  just  shall  walk  in  them ;  but  the  transgressors  will  stumble 
through  them  "  ;  whereby  Lot  and  his  two  daughters  are  meant. 
To  the  latter  who  intended  to  do  a  meritorious  act,  the  verse 
"  the  just  shall  walk  in  them  "  is  applied,  and  to  him  who  in- 
tended to  commit  a  crime,  the  last  words  of  the  same  verse  are 
applied.  And  whence  do  we  know  that  he  has  intended  to 
commit  a  crime?  Was  he  not  compelled  to  this  action?  It  was 
taught  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose  b.  R.  'Huni:  Why  is  the  vav 
of  the  word  bkiimah  [Gen.  xix.  33]  pointed?  Because  he  (Lot) 
was  not  aware  at  the  start,  but  when  she  got  up  he  became 
aware  of  his  act.  But  what  could  he  do ;  there  was  no  remedy 
to  what  has  already  passed?  He  ought  to  have  drunk  the  sec- 
ond evening. 

Rabba  lectured  [Prov.  xviii.  19]:  "A  brother  offended  is 
harder  than  a  strong  town  ";  by  this  Lot  is  meant,  who  sepa- 
rated himself  from  Abraham.  *'  And  quarrels  [among  brothers] 
are  like  the  bars  of  a  castle";  it  is  Lot  who  made  Israel  to 
quarrel  with  the  nation  of  Amon  [Deut.  xxiii.  4]. 

Rabha  or  R.  Itz'hak  lectured  [Prov.  xviii.  i] :  "He  that 
separateth  himself  [from  God]  seeketh  his  own  desires:  at  every 
sound  wisdom  is  he  enraged";  by  the  first  part  of  this  verse 


2  2  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Lot  is  meant,  who  separated  himself  from  Abraham ;  and  by 
the  second  half  the  punishment  of  Amon  and  Moab  is  meant, 
of  whom  a  Mishna  states  the  prohibitions  of  mingling  with  them 
are  forever  lasting,  Ula  said:  Tammar  sinned,  and  kings  and 
prophets  were  her  issues.  Zimri  sinned  and  tens  of  thousands 
of  Israel  fell.     (How  great  a  difference!) 

What  is  meant  by  ruler,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught-  It  reads 
"  A  prince."  Lest  one  say  a  prince  of  a  tribe  as,  e.g.,  Na'hshan 
b.  Aminodob,  it  reads:  the  above-cited  verse  [Lev.  iv.]  and 
[Deut.  xvii.  19],  concerning  a  king,  it  reads:  "  He  shall  fear  the 
Lord  his  God  "  ;  now,  as  there  no  one  but  his  God  is  his  supe- 
rior, so  also  here. 

Rabbi  questioned  R.  Hyye:  I,  who  am  a  prince,  am  I  liable 
to  a  he-goat?  And  he  answered:  There  are  your  rivals  in  Baby- 
lon ;  Rabha  objected  to  him  from  the  following:  Kings  of  Israel 
and  the  kings  of  the  house  of  David  have  to  bring  their  offerings 
Separately?  And  he  answered:  They  were  not  dependent  each 
upon  the  other,  while  we  are  dependent  on  those  in  Babylon. 

R.  Safra  taught  the  above  as  follows:  Rabbi  questioned 
Hyye:  I,  e.g.,  who  am  a  prince,  am  I  liable  to  a  he-goat?  And 
he  answered:  In  Babylon  there  is  a  tribe  (Shebet),  etc.  (Sec 
Sanhedrin,  p.       .) 

MISHNA///.:  And  who  is  the  anointed  priest?  He  who 
was  consecrated  to  priesthood  by  the  holy  ointment  and  not 
merely  by  the  many  (8)  raiments.  However,  between  these  two 
kinds  of  priests  there  exists  no  other  difference  except  the  bul- 
lock-sacrifice attending  the  violations  of  any  of  the  command- 
ments. Nor  is  there  any  difference  between  the  priest  in  oflfice 
and  the  retired  priest  except  the  bullock  of  the  day  of  atonement 
and  the  tenth  of  the  Eifah.  Both  are  equal  as  regards  the  ser- 
vices on  the  day  of  atonement,  the  command  to  marry  a  virgin, 
the  prohibition  from  marrying  a  widow,  from  defiling  themselves 
to  a  dead  relative,  from  wild-growing  of  the  hair,  from  tearing 
their  garments;  finally  both  effect  through  their  respective 
deaths  the  return  of  the  homicide  from  exile. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  In  the  oil  for  anointing 
which  was  made  by  Moses,  they  used  to  soak  the  roots,  so  R. 
Jehudah,  etc.  (Here  it  is  repeated  from  Tract  Kherithoth, 
5  b.  to  6  b. ,  and  as  there  is  its  proper  place,  we  omit  it  here.) 

The  rabbis  taught:  The  anointed,  and  lest  one  say  it  means 
the  king,  it  adds  "  the  priest."  And  lest  one  say,  that  also  he 
who  was  sanctified  by  his  dress  only,  therefore  "  the  anointed. 


TRACT    HORIOTH    (DECISIONS).  23 

But  still  one  may  say  that  it  means  the  priest  anointed  for  the 
war  time,  therefore  and  "  the  anointed  priest,"  i.e.,  the  distin- 
guished one  who  has  no  one  anointed  over  him. 

There  is  no  difference  between  the  anointed,''  etc.  Our 
Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with  R.  Nair,  as  he  holds  that  he 
who  was  sanctified  by  the  eight  dresses,  has  to  bring  a  bullock 
for  the  transgression  of  all  the  negative  commandments  which 
are  to  be  found  in  the  Scripture;  while  the  sages  did  not  agree 
with  him.  But  how  can  you  say  that  our  Mishna  is  in  accord- 
ance with  the  rabbis?  Does  not  the  latter  part  state,  "  There 
is  no  difference  between  a  priest  who  is  still  in  his  ofifice  and  one 
retired,  but  concerning  the  bullock  of  the  day  of  atonement  and 
the  tenth  of  Eipha, "  all  which  can  be  only  in  accordance  with 
R.  Nair,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following:  If  it  happened  to 
the  high-priest  a  thing  which  makes  him  temporarily  unfit  for 
service,  so  that  he  was  substituted  by  another  priest,  then  the 
former  returns  to  his  office  and  his  substitute  remains  with  all 
the  obligations  of  a  high-priest,  so  R.  Nair;  R.  Jose,  however, 
maintains  that  the  substitute  is  no  more  fit  either  as  a  high- 
priest  or  as  a  simple  one.  And  he  added;  It  happened  to  Joseph 
b.  Ailim  of  Ceporas  that  something  made  him  temporarily 
unfit,  to  serve  as  high-priest,  and  another  one  was  substituted, 
and  his  brethren  the  priests  did  not  allow  his  substitute  to  be 
either  a  high-priest  or  a  common  one:  a  high-priest  because  of 
animosity,  and  a  common  one  because  of  the  rule  that  one  may 
be  raised  in  sanctification  but  not  lowered;  hence,  we  see  that 
the  first  part  of  the  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  the  rabbis,  and 
the  second  with  R.  Mair,  Said  R.  'Hisda:  So  it  is.  But  R. 
Jose  said:  It  is  in  accordance  with  Rabbi,  who  edited  the  Mishna 
in  question  in  accordance  with  different  Tanaim.  Rabha,  how- 
ever, said:  It  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon,  who  holds  with 
R.  Mair  in  one  case,  but  differs  with  him  in  the  other.  (The 
diffeTence  of  opinion  of  the  above  Tanaim  is  translated  already 
in  Tract  Joma.) 

The  Mishna  states:  "Except  the  five  things  which  are  said 
in  the  portion  regarding  a  high-priest."  Whence  is  this  de- 
duced? From  what  the  rabbis  taught  [Lev.  xxi.  10]:  "And 
the  priest  that  is  highest  among  his  brethren,"  means  the  high- 
priest.  "  Upon  whose  head  anointing  oil  hath  been  poured," 
means  that  who  was  appointed  for  the  war.  "  And  who  hath 
been  consecrated  to  put  on  the  garments,"  means  that  who 
was  sanctified  by  the  garments  only;  and   to  all  them  it  says. 


24  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  Shall  not  let  the  hair  of  his  head  grow  long,  and  his  garments 
shall  he  not  rend.  Neither  shall  he  go  in  to  any  dead  body," 
etc.  And  lest  one  says  that  they  all  may  perform  the  holy  ser- 
vice in  the  first  day  in  which  death  occurs  in  his  family,  it  reads, 
"  For  the  crown  of  the  anointing  oil  of  his  God  is  upon  him," 
which  means,  upon  him  but  not  upon  his  appointed  colleague, 
i.e.,  the  appointed  for  the  war,  and  as  the  latter  was  separated 
from  the  above,  one  might  say  that  he  is  also  commanded  to 
take  a  virgin;  therefore  [ibid.  13]:  "And  he  shall  take  a  wife 
in  her  virgin  state,"  he  and  not  some  other  one.  However,  in 
the  latter  case  Tanaim  differ. 

MISHNA  IV.  :  The  high-priest  rends  his  garment  from  be- 
low; the  common  priest,  from  the  top.  The  former,  while  in 
mourning,  may  offer  sacrifices  but  not  eat  thereof;  the  latter,  if 
in  mourning,  must  do  neither  the  one  nor  the  other. 

Said  Rabh  :  From  below  means  literally  he  shall  tear  from  the 
bottom  of  the  garment.  Samuel,  however,  says:  From  the  bot- 
tom of  the  seam,  and  on  top  means  on  the  top  of  the  seam. 
But  both  must  be  on  the  bottom  of  the  collar. 

MISHNA  V. :  What  is  more  common  precedes  the  less  com- 
mon ;  the  more  holy  precedes  the  less  sanctified.  If  the  bullock 
of  the  anointed  priest  and  that  of  the  congregation  are  simul- 
taneously ready  as  sacrifices,  the  former  precedes  the  latter  in 
all  respects. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  this  deduced?  Said  Abaye  [Numb, 
xxviii.  23]:  "  Besides  the  burnt-offering  of  the  morning,  which 
is  for  a  continual  burnt-ofTering,  shall  ye  prepare  these."  Now, 
as  it  reads  already  the  burnt-offering  of  the  morning,  why  was  it 
necessary  to  state  which  is  for  a  continual  offering?  To  teach 
that  what  is  more  common  precedes  the  less.  And  whence  do 
we  know  that  what  is  more  sanctified  precedes  the  less  one? 
From  what  was  taught  by  the  disciples  of  R.  Ismael:  "  Thou 
shallst  sanctify  him,"  means  to  every  sanctification  he  shall 
begin  first,  he  shall  make  the  benediction  first,  and  he  shall  be 
the  first  to  take  the  best  share. 

"  The  bullock  of  tJie  anointed,''  etc.  Whence  is  this  deduced? 
From  [Lev,  iv.  21]:  "  And  he  shall  burn  him  as  he  has  burned 
the  first  bullock."  To  what  purpose  was  the  "  first"  neces- 
sary? To  teach  that  he  must  make  precede  the  bullock  of  the 
congregation  in  all  respects. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  the  bullock  of  the  anointed  priest  and 
that  of  the  congregation  were  standing,  the  former  precedes  the 


TRACT    HORIOTH    (DECISIONS).  25 

latter  in  all  respects,  because  as  the  anointed  one  atones  and  the 
congregation  is  atoned,  it  is  but  right  that  he  who  atones  shall 
precede  the  atoned  one  in  all  respects.  And  so  also  it  reads 
[ibid.  xvi.  17]:  "  So  shall  he  make  an  atonement  for  himself, 
and  for  his  houshold,  and  for  the  whole  congregation  of  Israel. 

MISHNA  VI.  :  The  man  has  the  preference  over  the  woman 
in  respect  of  preservation  of  life  and  of  returning  a  loss.  The 
woman  has  the  preference  in  respect  of  dressing  and  of  being 
ransomed  from  captivity.  If  two  persons  of  different  sex  are 
menaced  with  being  (sexually)  disgraced,  the  man  must  be  pro- 
tected first. 

GEMARA  :  The  rabbis  taught :  if  it  happened  that  he,  his 
master  and  his  father  were  in  captivity  (and  he  was  able  to  re- 
deem one  of  them),  he  himself  has  the  preference  over  the  latter, 
and  his  master  has  the  preference  over  his  father.  His  mother, 
however,  has  the  preference  over  all.  A  sage  has  the  preference 
over  a  king  of  Israel,  as  if  a  sage  dies  we  have  no  equal  to  him, 
but  if  a  king  dies  all  Israel  are  fit  for  the  throne.  A  king  has  the 
preference  over  a  high  priest,  as  [I  Kings  i.  33]  :  "  Take  with 
you  the  servants  of  your  lord,"  etc.  A  high  priest  has  the  pref- 
erence to  a  prophet,  as  [ibid.  34]  :  "  And  let  Zadek  the  priest 
with  Nathan  the  prophet,"  hence  the  priest  precedes  the  prophet. 
The  priest  anointed  with  the  anointed  oil  precedes  him  who 
was  sanctified  by  his  garments.  The  latter  precedes  the 
one  appointed  for  the  war,  and  he  precedes  him  who  was  re- 
moved from  ofifice  on  being  blemished,  and  he  precedes  segan 
(vice  high  priest),  and  he  precedes  the  Amarkhal.  (What  does 
Amarkhal  mean  ?  said  R.  'Hisda  :  the  head  ofificer  of  the  temple.) 
The  last  one  precedes  the  treasurer,  and  he  precedes  the  head  of 
the  watching  officer.  He  (the  head)  precedes  the  head  of  the 
family  priest,  and  the  latter  precedes  a  common  priest. 

MISHNA  VIL  :  The  following  precede  one  another  in  order 
of  arrangement :  the  priest,  Levite  (simple),  Israehte,  bastard, 
nathin,  proselyte,  a  freed  slave;  provided,  however,  they  are 
equally  qualified  in  learning;  but  if,  e.g.,  the  bastard  be  a  learned 
man  in  the  Law,  while  the  high  priest  is  an  ignorant,  the  pref- 
erence is  on  the  part  of  the  former. 

GEMARA  :  "  Equally  qualified,''  etc.  Whence  is  this  de- 
duced ?  Said  R.  A'ha  b.  R.  'Hanina,  from  [Prov.  iii.  15],  "She 
is  more  precious  than  pearls  "  ;  (* p?iinim),  which  means  from  the 
high  priest  who  enters  the  sanctum  sanctissimum. 

*  Pninim  is  homonymous  with  Fnim,  which  means  inside. 


26  THE    BABYLONIAN  TALMUD. 

There  is  a  Boraitha  :  R.  Simeon  b.  la'hai  said  that  it  is  but 
right  that  a  free  slave  have  the  preference  over  a  proselyte,  as 
the  former  was  brought  up  with  us  in  sanctity,  which  is  not  the 
case  with  the  latter ;  however,  as  a  slave  has  been  placed  in  the 
category  of  the  "  cursed  "  [Genes,  ix.  25],  a  proselyte  has  the 
preference. 

The  disciples  of  R.  Elazar  b.  Zadok  questioned  their  master  : 
Why  is  one  more  anxious  to  marry  a  female  proselyte  than  a 
freed  female  slave  ?  and  he  answered  as  a  reason  the  slave's  being 
in  the  category  of  the  "  cursed,"  and  also  because  the  proselyte 
is  supposed  to  have  kept  herself  in  chastity,  which,  as  a  rule,  is 
not  the  case  with  the  slave. 

They  further  questioned :  Why  does  the  dog  know  his  mas- 
ter, and  the  cat  does  not  ?  and  his  answer  was  :  It  is  certain  that 
he  who  eats  from  what  is  left  by  a  mouse  is  apt  to  have  a  poor 
memory,  so  much  the  more  so  the  cat  that  himself  consumes  the 
mouse.  They  questioned  again :  Why  do  all  these  animals  (i.e. 
dogs,  cats,  and  the  hke)  reign  over  the  mice  ?  and  he  answered  : 
Because  the  mice  are  instinctively  mischievous,  since,  says  Rabha, 
they  tear  even  garments  ;  and  R.  Papa  says  :  They  gnaw  through 
even  the  handle  of  a  pick-ax. 

The  rabbis  taught  the  following  five  objects  are  conducive  to 
one's  forgetting  his  studies  :  The  eating  up  of  the  remnants  of 
the  mice's  or  cat's  food,  of  the  heart  of  a  cow,  the  frequent  con- 
suming of  olives,  the  drinking  of  the  water  left  from  one's  own 
washing,  and,  finally,  the  bathing  of  one's  feet  one  kept  on  the 
other.  According  to  others  add  yet  this  :  the  putting  of  one's 
clothes  under  one's  head  while  sleeping, 

The  following  five  are  apt  to  strengthen  one's  memory: 
Bread  baked  on  coals,  and  particularly  the  consuming  of  the 
coals  themselves,  soft  eggs  without  salt,  the  frequent  drinking  of 
olive  oil,  of  wine  flavored  with  spices,  of  water  left  after  its  use 
for  a  dough.  According  to  others  add  yet  this  :  to  dip  the  finger  in 
salt  and  consume  the  latter.  According  to  others  add  this :  the 
consuming  of  wheat  bread  and  particulary  of  the  wheat  itself. 

This  Boraitha  furnishes  a  support  to  R.  Johanan  who  was  wont 
of  saying  that  as  an  olive  causes  one  to  forget  one's  studies 
acquired  during  a  period  of  70  years,  so  the  oil  thereof  calls  back 
to  one's  memory  the  studies  of  such  a  perod. 

Concerning  the  consuming  of  salt  on  one's  finger,  according 
to  Resh  Lakish  this  must  be  done  with  one  finger;  while 
Tanaim  differ:  according  to  R.  Jehudah  it  is  with  one  finger  and 


TRACT    HORIOTH    (DECISIONS).  27 

not  two,  according  to  R.  Jose  two  and  not  three  fingers,  and  the 
negative  sign  of  it  is  Kuritzah,  i.e.  taking  a  fistful  of  the  meal- 
offering  (done  always  with  three  fingers). 

The  following  ten  objects  are  cumbrous  to  one's  studies :  pass- 
ing under  the  rope  of  a  camel  and  particularly  under  the  camel 
itself;  passing  between  two  camels,  between  two  women,  the 
passing  of  a  woman  between  two  men,  passing  through  the  ob- 
noxious odor  of  a  carcass,  passing  under  a  bridge  where  nature 
was  not  running  for  40  days,  the  eating  of  half-baked  bread,  of 
meat  taken  out  with  the  ^oai-if^pATpo?  (spoon  with  which  the 
scumming  is  done),  drinking  from  a  well  streaming  through  a 
cemetery,  looking  on  the  face  of  a  corpse.  According  to  others 
add  yet,  reading  the  inscriptions  on  a  tombstone. 

The  rabbis  taught:  when  the  prince  enters,  all  the  people 
present  in  college  rise  to  their  feet,  without  again  taking  their 
seats  until  he  tells  them  to  do  so.  When  the  chief  justice  enters, 
the  people  occupying  two  rows  of  seats  facing  the  entrance  rise 
and  remain  standing  until  he  takes  his  seat.  If  the  sage  enters, 
the  occupants  of  one  row  rise  and  remain  standing  until  he  takes 
his  place.  The  children  as  well  as  the  disciples  of  the  sages,  if 
their  help  in  the  studies  is  needful,  are  allowed  to  pass  over  the 
heads  of  the  people  (seated  on  the  floor),  but  not  when  their  help 
is  not  wanted.  The  children  of  such  scholars  who  superintend 
the  congregation,  if  they  comprehend  the  subjects  treated  of, 
may  enter,  sit  down  with  their  faces  to  their  fathers  and  backs 
to  the  people  ;  but  if  not,  they  have  to  sit  in  the  opposite  order. 
R.  Elicar  b.  R.  Zadok  said  that  also  at  a  banquet  these  children 
may  be  invited  for  the  sake  of  their  parents.  If  one  of  them 
has  to  go  out  for  physiological  requirements  he  may  return, 
Said  Rabha,  this  is  so  only  when  their  fathers  are  still  alive  and 
also  present. 

Said  R.  Johanan:  This  Mishna  was  taught  in  the  time  of 
R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  when  he  was  the  prince,  R.  Nathan  the 
president,  and  R.  Mair  the  sage  of  the  college.  When  R.  Simeon 
would  enter,  the  people  rose ;  likewise  when  either  R.  Mair  or 
R.  Nathan  entered  the  people  would  rise ;  said  then  the  prince  : 
If  so,  there  is  no  difference  between  me  and  the  others,  whereas 
I  should  like  that  a  difference  be  made;  and  he  accordingly 
enacted  the  rules  laid  down  in  the  Mishna.  However,  this  was 
carried  out  in  the  absence  of  R.  Mair  and  R.  Nathan,  so  that  on 
the  morrow  when  they  came  and  saw  the  people  behind  the  2 
rows  remaining  in  their  seats,  they  asked  the  reason  thereof,  in 


28  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

answer  to  which  they  were  told  of  the  prince's  enactment.  There- 
upon said  R.  Mair  to  R.  Nathan  :  I  am  the  sage  and  you  are  the 
president,  let  us  enact  something  in  our  behalf;  let  us  ask  R. 
Simeon  to  teach  us  Tract  Uktzin  (stalks  of  fruit),  and  as  we  are 
aware  that  he  is  not  versed  therein,  we  will  say  unto  him  [Psal. 
cvi.  2]  "  Who  can  utter  the  mighty  acts  of  the  Lord?"  he  "who 
can  publish  all  his  praise!  "  Thereupon  we  will  depose  him  and 
you  will  take  his  place  and  I  yours.  R.  Jacob  b.  Oarshi  (Rabbi's 
master)  overheard  this  plan  and  was  embarrassed  as  to  how  he 
could  prevent  R.  Simeon's  reputation  from  being  marred  ;  he  then 
hid  himself  in  back  of  R.  Simeon's  attic  and  began  to  study  aloud 
Uktzin  over  again  and  again,  until  R.  Simeon  has  noticed  it  and 
the  idea  struck  him  that  something  must  have  happened  in  the 
college,  to  which  Jacob  would  like  to  draw  his  attention ;  he 
accordingly  was  quick  enough  to  t  "ke  up  the  study  of  Uktzin, 
and,  indeed,  succeeded  in  acquiring  close  familiarity  with  this 
Tract.  On  the  morrow  he  was  asked  in  tlie  college,  according  to 
the  premeditated  plan,  to  lecture  on  Uktzin  which  he  did,  and 
after  he  was  through  he  said  to  them  :  If  my  attention  had  not 
been  called  to  this  Tract,  T  shov.Id  have  been  put  to  public  shame 
by  your  plan.  On  his  command,  then,  R,  Mair  and  R.  Nathan 
were  removed  from  the  college.  They,  however,  v/ere  circulating 
in  writing,  questions  and  objections  and  throwing  them  in  to  the 
college;  to  those  that  could  not  be  resolved  in  college,  they 
would  themselves  write  the  answers  and  send  them  again  to  col- 
lege. Said  R.  Jose  to  the  college:  The  v;hole  Torah  is  outside 
and  we  should  remain  inside  the  college?  This  pressure  urgnd 
R.  Simeon  to  allow  the  relegated  to  return  under  the  penalty, 
however,  that  the  Halakhas  be  not  proclaimed  in  their  names. 
Therefore  R.  Mair's  Halakhas  were  henceforth  classed  with  the 
anonymous  teachers,  and  R.  Nathan's  were  given  as  "according 
to  some."  It  once  happened  that  both  had  dreams  commanding 
them  to  reconcile  R.  Simeon ;  whereupon  R.  Nathan  did  so, 
while  R.  Mair  said  that  he  does  not  yield  to  dreams  as  they  are 
nonsense.  When  R.  Nathan  came  to  reconcile  him,  R.  Simeon 
b.  Gamaliel  said :  Because  thy  father's  (official)  belt  helped  the 
to  be  president  of  the  court,  must  we  make  thee  Nasi  (prince)? 

Rabbi  taught  to  R.  Simeon  his  son:  The  anonymous  teachers 
■^ay  so  and  so ;  interrupted  him  his  .son ;  who  are  they  whose 
water  we  imbibe  and  whose  names  we  do  not  mention?  And  he 
answered :  They  were  the  men  who  conspired  to  destroy  your 
glory  and  that  of  your  father's  house,  rejoined  he  ;  [Eccl.  ix,  6.] 


TRACT    HORIOTH    (DECISIONS).  29 

"  Also  their  love,  and  their  hatred,  and  their  envy  are  now  already 
lost,"  answered  the  Rabbi  paraphrasing.  (Psal.  ix.  7) :  The  enemy 
is  lost,  but  his  ruinous  deeds  are  still  existing;  said  R.  Simeon: 
this  would  be  right  if  the  deeds  of  the  rabbis  in  question  remained 
effective,  but  they  whom  you  have  in  view  had  only  an  intention, 
and  one  that  has  never  been  realized.  Thereupon  Rabbi  taught 
to  him  again  ;  so  and  so  was  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Mair.  Said 
Rabha:  Rabbi,  though  modest  in  nature,  yet  refrained  from  say- 
ing *  it  was  said  by  R.  Mair,'  but  taught  it  was  said  in  the  name 
of  R.  Mair. 

Said  R.  Johanan  :  R.  Simeon  C.  Gamaliel  and  the  rabbis  dif- 
fered with  regard  to  the  following :  according  to  one  the  erudite 
scholar,  while  according  to  the  other,  the  dialectician,  has  has  the 
preference,  A  message  concerning  this  point  was  sent  to  the 
west,  and  the  answer  thereto  was :  the  erudite  has  the  preference, 
since  every  one  is  in  need  of  the  OAvner  of  the  stored-up  wheat, 
R.  Joseph  was  the  erudite,  and  Rabha  was  the  dialectician,  and 
though  the  answer  of  the  west  was  in  favor  of  the  former,  he  did 
not  accept  the  position  of  head  of  the  college  for  22  years,  until 
Rabha  who  accepted  this  position  died.  During  all  this  time  R. 
Joseph  did  not  invite  to  his  house  even  a  barber,  but  was  himself 
going  wherever  he  needed. 

Abaye  and  R.abha,  R.  Zero  and  Rabha  C.  Mathma  were  sitting 
together  at  the  time  when  the  presidency  of  the  college  was 
vacant,  and  they  have  decided  that  he  who  will  recite  a  point  that 
will  meet  no  objection  be  elected  to  this  office.  The  sayings  of 
them  all  were  objected,  excepting  that  of  Abaye  which  was  not ; 
thereupon  Rabha  noticing  that  Abaye  was  raising  his  head,  said 
to  him  :  W.i'hmeni,  begin  your  lecture  (you  are  the  head  of  the 
college). 

The  schoolmen  questioned  regarding  R.  Zera  who  was  a  genius 
and  in  the  habit  of  raising  objections,  and  Rabha  C.  Mathma  who 
was  slow,  careful  and  considerate  in  drawing  conclusions,  which  of 
the  two  types  has  the  preference.  This  question  remained  un- 
decided. 


END   OF  TRACT  HORIOTH   AND   OF  THE   VOL;   XVHI., 
AND    ALSO     OF    THE     WHOLE    SECTION    JURISPRUDENCE. 


Princeton  Theoloqical   Seminary   Libraries 


1    1012  01251    5849 


