Ie ILS 

: Hy 4 

Kies S 

SPE, " 

fs Luis 

ESE N natal ‘ : ; : ge &! : 4 ee ie : a, : oe & roars re bab : by ; 2h 

‘sti ony St f i \ ‘ bre rhe ° PEN : Wee c =e es , ya 's : oh ae Arhin Oe eae 
PO ACRES AORN SONNTAG RGAARSARS GAC RE RESUS OEE ee ROM 
% Ns ak rate y : “heh r ‘ ’ Oe eas y NSD : : ws Sicha y : . re he Re 


bb 


ote! 


Sa 
ON, “5 
sibs 





Ee 


LE I 
. SR 4 


a 7 7 ds 


A 
SD 
ae Re Se NS 
Ee 





2 
thst) 
REIS 


i oh NAS 7 ., IRL S 3 Vy = e Paes age ey ‘ f x Px 


beh #. 5 
LAD ARPS 
ds fs 


oe, 


, 


erst: 


4 


> 


Or Ale 
ee bets 
WD Pe Mf ee f 











Dd ae eae tie cat Be a 


~~ 


Ae 


erie ar ie ee eed 


rand 





SS oy ol ELE 


We ee 6 €4 


pd dee bx 


f. 
aie 


ee of 
ee. 


hie 
are 


45 


Lo 
TG 
ee, 


a 


PE 


Re 


+ 
sian 


oat sit 
MES 
Spec it 


‘ wits a VAs r Nh 
ap) PN ee 
7 Th: Fy ein 


nine y ; 
aA 


wes 
2 


ae 
= 


ah 
a 


f) Xe 
Pe LEG 
RPA hae 


bs 


tae 


ae 
Ss ors 
Keep 


= 





ay 


CAVEN LIBRARY 


KNOX COLLEGE 
TORONTO 





45 == rege feria IF 
z GFORONT* 


NEW EDITION 


OF THE 


BABYLONIAN TALMUD 


Original Text, Edited, Corrected, Formulated, and 
Translated into English 


BY 


- MICHAEL L. RODKINSON 


SECTION JURISPRUDENCE (DAMAGES) 


TRACTS MACCOTH, SHEBUOTH 
AND EDUYOTH 


Volume IX. (XVII) 


NEW YORK 
NEW TALMUD PUBLISHING COMPANY 
11177 SIMPSON STREET 


CAVEN LIBRARY 
YNMY COLLEGE 


EXPLANATORY REMARKS. 


In our translation we adopted these principles: 


1. Tenan of the original—We have learned ina Mishna; Zania—We have 
learned in a Boraitha; /temar—lIt was taught. 


2. Questions are indicated by the interrogation point, and are immediately 
followed by the answers, without being so marked. 


3. When in the original there occur two statements separated by the phrase, 
Lishna achrena or Waibayith Aema or [kha d’amri (literally, ‘‘otherwise interpreted ”’), 
we translate only the second. 


4. As the pages of the original are indicated in our new Hebrew edition, it is not 
deemed necessary to mark them in the English edition, this being only a translation 
from the latter. 


5. Words or passages enclosed in round parentheses ( ) denote the explanation 
rendered by Rashi to the foregoing sentence or word, Square parentheses [ ] contain 
commentaries by authorities of the last period of construction of the Gemara. 


§ S04 


(Jos 


COPYRIGHT, 1903, BY 
MICHAEL L. RODKINSON, 


TO HIM 


WHO IS HIGHLY RESPECTED BY THE PEOPLE FOR HIS GENIUS 
AND GENEROSITY THE | 


HONORABLE JACOB A. CANTOR 


PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMAN, BOROUGH OF MANHATTAN, NEW YORK 


THIS VOLUME IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY THE 
EDITOR AND TRANSLATOR 


MICHAEL L. RODKINSON 


New York 
RosH CHODESH SIVAN, 5663 


(MAY 27, 1903) 





CONCLUDING WORDS 


TO THE COMPLETION OF SECTIONS FESTIVAL AND 
JURISPRUDENCE. 


With the benediction to the Almighty, who prolonged our life 
to see the completion of our translation the above two large sec- 
tions of the Talmud, we deem it necessary to say a few words con- 
cerning the criticisms which have recently appeared, and to 
which we are grateful for having called our attention to some 
important matters. However, before we will come to the point 
we beg to say that we were anxious during the whole time to 
see a true criticism to our entire work, pointing out the mistakes 
or errors which must be found in the editing as well as in the 
translating itself of such a difficult and voluminous work. But 
to our knowledge such has not appeared anywhere as yet, 
although reviews and notices of different kinds were given in 
more than a hundred leading papers in both the old and the 
new world. The praises encouraged us but little, and some of 
the criticisms did not discourage us at all, for the reason that 
both were only phrases, without giving any evidence or impor- 
tant facts to which our proper attention should be called. And 
wé would still be grateful indeed to those who would give such 
criticisms in compliance with our wishes, as this would be a 
great help to us in the continuation of the translation of the four 
remaining sections, which may take about twelve volumes or so 
more. Nowtothe point. There was a criticism in the ‘‘ Open 
Court’’ of Chicago, Vol. XVI., pp. 425-427, accusing us that we 
have omitted the discussion of some sages concerning “‘ evan- 


gelium.’’ How it should be written PITY or IPOITIIN* 





*The meaning of the first two words is one and the same. And the aelph 
here is the same as the ayen. The same differ also about the same letters con- 
cerning the word “ Eidehen,’ Abuda Zara, p.I. (see foot-note there); hence, 
as it is without any importance for the English reader, we have to omit it, 
according to our method. But that what was said in the name of Jesus by 
Jacob (James) we have translated, although we do not believe that this was 
so (see foot-note, ibid. p. 27). 


Vv 


vi CONCLUDING WORDS. 


and for such an omission he exclaimed that we have no transla- 
tion of the whole Talmud.* We have received also some pri- 
vate letters from educated people, asking why they do not find 
any mention of Jesus of Nazareth. And in answer to the criti- 
cism as well as to the many letters we have received, we beg to 

give some letters of an editor of a scientific paper of this coun- 
try, which we think will throw some light on this matter. 


June 1, 1901. 
Rev. MicHaret RopKINSON, 
New York City. 

Dear Sir:—The receipt of Volume XII. of the Talmud brings back rec- 
ollections of a pleasant hour spent with you in my office, and the informa- 
tion which you so kindly gave me on several very obscure points. Perhaps 
you will pardon a personal letter of inquiry on a point or two in “ Sabbath x 
that have especially interested me. 

You will remember where the subject is discussed as to whether it was 
lawful to rescue books from the flames, the point turning especially, as I 
read it, that on the one hand the books of unbelievers should be allowed to 
perish, while on the other hand, these same books also contain the Sacred 
Name. 

R. Abuha is asked if the books of the Be Abhidon should be saved, and 
gives an equivocal reply. It is stated that Rabh went to neither the Be 
Abhidon nor the Be Nitzrephe. Samuel went to the Abhidon, and Mar 
Bar Joseph ‘‘ was of their society.” 

Your note on the passage leaves it conjectural who the people were. 
To me it seems altogether likely that they were Christian sects (possibly 
Jewish Christians and Gentile Christians). I should infer this because, first, 
‘R. Tarphon’s statement immediately precedes it, and Christian tradition at 
least connects him with disputes with Christians. Second, the story of 
Ema Shalom and her brother Gamaliel II., and the philosopher and judge 
follows it. It seems to me that there are at least three implied quotations 
in this story from Matthew’s Gospel or some other Christian document: 
“ Let your light shine,” “I came not to destroy but fulfill the law,” and the’ 
statement about son and daughter inheriting alike. 

Do Hebrew scholars think that Christians are indicated by Be Abhidon 
and Be Nitzrephe? And if so, how is the fact explained that Samuel went 
to one of them, unless it be that Samuel is Saul (Paul), and how could 
Mar Bar Joseph be of their society? 

It seems to me that I find a number of places where Christian usages or 





* Some one has called our attention to this article being in the public 
library about a year ago and we only glanced at it for lack of time. And for 
the same reason we could not have the original before us when we are writ- 
ing our answer. By the way, we like to say that there is published a booklet, 
** Chasronoth-Hashas,” containing the omission made by the censor about 
Jesus and his disciples, to which we do not pay any attention, as its con- 
tents are nonsense and we are sure that these were not said or written by the 
talmudic scholars. We also possess a letter from the late lamented Dr. 
Mielziner, who agrees with us on this point. 


CONCLUDING WORDS. vii 


doctrines are referred to, and I wish I were informed as to the names 
and other indications which would show this. If you could give me some 
light, without trespassing too much on your time, I would be very grateful 
indeed. 


f June 12, 1901. 

My Dear Sir: Your kind favor of the 9th at hand and carefully noted. I 
assume that you have good and sufficient reasons for your hesitation in such 
a matter, although they may not be apparent to me. Therefore it only 
remains for me to assure you as strongly as I know how, that the informa- 
tion I seek is only for myself, that it will not be published, that it will not 
be quoted even in conversation as. your opinion. 

I simply wish to read understandingly the fine work you are placing 
before English readers; I want to get into the atmosphere of the times as 
much as possible. Judaism and Christianity must have touched elbows a 
good deal in the first three centuries, and there must be some evidences of 
it in the Talmud to those who can read between the lines. I think I can 
see references. For instance, were there Saducees after the final over- 
throw, and is not the term, at least occasionally, applied to Christians? 

My own conviction, which of course, is based on very superficial knowl- 
edge mostly gleaned form the early Christian Fathers, is that at first, the 
line of demarcation between the Jewish Christians and the Jews was not 
so strong as it became afterwards. But at any rate, there must be more 
references to them than appear on the surface, it seems to me, and that is 
what I want to know.. But I have no theory to vindicate and seek the 
knowledge only for myself. 


July 2, 1901. 
My Dear Sir: I wish to acknowledge the receipt of your very kind and 
instructive letter of two weeks ago. It covers substantially the points I 
wished to know, and saved me much research that night in the end prove 
barren of results. I shall remember your kindness. Again thanking you, 
I am, 


And to these letters we may add a paragraph of Tract Sab- 
bath, p. 119. ‘‘ R. Aqiba said: “ The wood-gatherer was Zeloph- 
chad.’ To which R. Jehudah b. Bathyra exclaimed: ‘ Aqiba! 
Whether your statement be true or false, you will have to an- 
swer for it at the time of the divine judgment; for if it be true, 
you disclosed the name of the man whom the Scriptures direct 
to shield, and thus you brought him unto infamy, and if it 
be false, you slandered a man who was upright,’’’ etc. (See 
there.) And this rule we adopted while engaged in this transla- 
tion—namely, not to give hypotheses to the reader, as there is 
not one line in the whole Mishna which speaks clearly of Jesus 
and his beliefs. In our book on “‘ Phylacteries’’ we have 
alluded to the reason why the editor of the Mishna did so. 
And the same reason prevented us from zxterpreting passages 
or paragraphs which seemed to us to treat about Jesus and his 


viii CONCLUDING WORDS. 


followers, as after all these are only hypotheses, and we do not 
like to throw our suppositions in a translation which ought to be 
more or less authentic. This is all that we can say in answer to 
the ‘‘ Open Court.”’ 

There has appeared in the ‘‘ Baltimore Sun,’’ April 17, 1903, 
a notice which, in the main, is very flattering, but gives also 
some criticisms that are of interest, and correct from the 
standpoint of the writer. They concern the remarks sub 
3 and 4 of the ‘‘ Explanatory Remarks’’ published in each 
volume on the other side of the title-page. Concerning the 
fourth he says: ‘‘ There are many who would be glad to verify 
references who may not have a copy of the new Hebrew 
text, or unable to use it, if they had it.’’ Concerning the third 
remark he says: ‘“‘ This seems unfortunate. The alternative 
interpretation is often of very considerable value, and may be 
used for historical purposes even if not so important theologic- 
ally.’”’ To this we may say that we were very careful when 
omitting the first version, and where we found it important we 
translated both, as the reader will find in our Talmud in many 
places, ‘‘ If you wish, it may be said so, and if you wish, it may 
be said so and so.’’ And we did not fail even to translate a 
third ‘‘ if you wish’’ when we saw that they all were of import- 
ance. In general, however, only the last versions are of great 
account, and the decisions of the post-talmudical rabbis were 
only in accordance with those. And only they are the guides 
of the Schul’han Arush (Jewish Code). 

Concerning the fourth we may confess that the critic is per- 
fectly right in his contention. However, it is not our fault but — 
that of the circumstances which deceived us in the beginning of 
our undertaking. We previously thought that we would find 
subscribers for the Hebrew text also, and so give the Hebrew 
with the English together, and then there would have certainly 
been no need of separately marking the pages of the text. Un- 
fortunately, there was no demand for the text at all, so that we 
were unable to furnish it with the translation, and in reality, 
for the general English reader who is not able to read Hebrew 
the page of the text is immaterial. And for the Hebrew stu- 
dents, who are very few, we could not afford to go to such ex- 
pense, as a separate column for each page would be necessary 
for this purpose, for such could not be inserted in the text even 
in parentheses. | 

Concerning the last Tract Horioth, which speaks of sacrifices 


CONCLUDING WORDS. ix 


and offerings only, we are at a loss to understand why it was in- 
serted in the section Jurisprudence, unless the reason be the treat- 
ment of whether the expenses of the offerings must be carried 
by the judges of the court themselves or by the treasury of the 
congregation, which may belong to the category of damages. 
However, the whole tract treats almost of one and the same 
point, so that we could not give the contents of each chapter 
separately, and confined ourselves by giving the synopsis of the 
beginning of each Mishna and some important matters from the 
Gemara of the last. 


hi aes ‘ah < 
NEw York, May 25, 1903. 


oh a 
ening 

aan 
a 





' 
ee 


Navigate 
ie 





CONTENTS. 





Synopsis OF SUBJECTS OF TRACT MAcCCOTH (STRIPES) . ‘ 


CHAPTER I. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING COLLUSIVE WIT- 
NESSES IN BOTH CRIMINAL AND CIVIL CASES, AND THE 
APPLICATION THERETO OF CORPOREAL AND OTHER PuN- 
ISHMENTS . ; : ; : ; ; ; ; 


CHAPTER II. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING UNINTENTIONAL 
MURDER AND EXILE. WHICH IS THE PUNISHMENT THERE- 
FOR.—WHO Is AND WHO Is NOT SuBJECT TO EXILE.— 
THE CITIES OF EXILE AND THEIR PREPARATIONS.—THE 
REDEEMING OF THE EXILED BY THE DEATH OF THE 
HIGH-PRIEST F : : ; ; A ; : ; 


CHAPTER III. 


WHo 1s SUBJECT TO THE PUNISHMENT BY STRIPES.—THE 
DETAILS OF THE PROCEDURE REGARDING THE EXECU- 
TION THEREOF.—WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES FREE THE CUL- 
PRIT THEREFROM.—THE RESPECTIVE DUTIES OF THE 
THREE JUDGES WHO MUST WITNESS THE EXECUTION . 


t5 


35 














SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 





. CHAPTER I. 


MIsHNA J. TO X. How should witnesses be made collusive? There are 
another sort of witnesses who are not subject to the punishment of collusive- 
ness but who are to suffer stripes instead. Where do we find a hint in the 
Scripture that collusive witnesses shall be punished with stripes? There are 
four points concerning collusive witnesses, etc. And they are not sold as 
Hebrew slaves. As it reads: ‘‘He shall be sold for his theft, but not for 
his collusiveness.” A collusive witness pays his share. What does this 
mean? We testify that so and so has divorced his wife and has not paid the 
amount mentioned in her marriage contract, etc. We testify that so and so 
owes to his neighbor a thousand zuz, etc. If one says I will make you a loan 
with the stipulation that the Sabbathic year shall not release me, it neverthe- 
less releases. If one loans money to his neighbor without a fixed term of 
return, he has no right to demand it before the elapse of thirty days. We 
testify that so and so owes 200 zuz to his neighbor, and they were found 
collusive, etc. To a negative commandment that does not contain manual 
labor, stripes does not apply. The fine of money may be divided into two 
or three shares; however, this is not to be done with stripes. Witnesses 
cannot be made collusive unless the falsehood lies in their bodies. A woman 
once brought witnesses, and they were found false. She then brought 
another party, who were also found false; she then brought another party, 
etc. Because she is suspicious should all Israel be suspected of testifying 
falsely ? Collusive witnesses are not to be killed unless the sentence of capital 
punishment for the defendant is rendered. There is no punishment on the 
ground of a fortiort conclusions. May I not live to see the consolation of 
our nation, if I have not killed a collusive witness for the purpose of remov- 
ing from the mind of the saducier, etc. The verse punishes one, an accom- 
plice who conjoins himself to transgressors with the same punishment, etc, 
And we may learn from this; that so much the more will he who conjoins 
himself to those who are engaged in meritorious acts, be rewarded, etc. 
There is no capital punishment, unless two witnesses have warned this cul- 
prit. If both of the witnesses have seen him who warned them, they are con- 
sidered conjoined. The court of Sanhedrin is to be established in Palestine 
as well as in the countries outside of it. In the large cities bu* not in the 
small ones, . ‘ ; ‘ ‘ : é : , . : I-14 


xiii 


XiV SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTER II. 


MisHNA J. TO V. The following are exiled, he who kills a person unin- 
tentionally. The act of one who thought that such is allowed is not to be 
considered an accident, but almost intentional. If one has climbed a ladder 
and the step under him broke and killed, one Boraitha declares him guilty, 
etc. If the iron ofa hatchet slipped off and killed. One threw a lump of 
brittle stone at a date tree, and the dates fell off and killed (a child). What 
is considered second force according to Rabbi? If one throws a stone in 
a public ground and it kills, he is to be exiled. The punishment of exile 
attaches but to a private set. Is hewing wood always considered a private 
affair? All kinds of human beings are exiled when they killed by accident 
an Israelite. A father is exiled if he killed his son accidentally. A heathen 
or a slave is to be exiled or punished with stripes through ‘an Israelite and 
vice versa, A stranger or an idolator who has killed even unintentionally is 
put to death. Only then when, thinking that such is allowed; ‘“‘For he isa 
prophet.” How is this to be understood? Because he is a prophet she has 
to be returned, but if a layman, she would not, etc. Exile does not apply to 
a blind one. An enemy is not exiled (as sucha punishment does not suffice). 
If the rope to which the man’s instrument was attached, broke—then he is 
exiled ; but if the instrument slips out of his hand, exile is not sufficient. 
Whither are they to be exiled? To the cities of refuge, etc. They were 
also obliged to prepare roads from one city to the other. Formerly all 
murderers, accidental as well as intentional, used to flee to the cities of refuge, 
etc. ‘‘Giliad is become a city of workers of wickedness,” etc. What does 
this expression mean? The city of refuge must neither be too large nor too 
small, but middle-sized ones. Be situated in places where there is water and 
markets. Ifa disciple is exiled, his master is exiled with him; because the 
expression; ‘‘and live,” means you shall supply him with the sources of 
moral life. He who loves the abundance of scholars possesses the fruit of 
knowledge. I learned much from my masters, more, however, from my col- 
leagues, and still more from my disciples. The Holy One, blessed be He, 
appoints them into one inn, and he who had killed intentionally is placed 
under a ladder, while the other, who killed unintentionally, descends the 
steps, falls and kills him. According to one he wrote only the eight verses, 
which begin with. ‘“ And Moses died,” ; : 14-28 

MISHNA VZ. TO X. There is no aiteeee aceeuh the aay priests who 
were anointed with the holy oil, etc. Therefore the mothers of the priests 
used to support the murderers with food and clothes, etc. It is counted as 
a sin to the priest who should pray that no accident might happen in that 
generation, If asage has put some one under the ban conditionally, etc. 
The forty years during which Israel was in the desert, the remains of Judah 
were dismembered in his coffin until Moses prayed for him, etc. If after 
the decision has been rendered, the high priest dies, he is not exiled, etc. 
If it happens that a murderer goes outside of the limit, etc. What has the 
high priest done that the murderer’s fate should depend upon his death ? 
Joab erred twice in so acting: (a) he thought that the horns of the altar 
protect, etc. The cities of refuge are not given for cemeteries. If one 
killed accidentally in the city of refuge, he is to be exiled, etc. If a murderer 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. XV 


was exiled, the townsmen like to honor him, he has to say to them: “I am 
a murderer,” . j ; i i ; : je ; - 28-34. 


.- | CHAPTER III. 


MisHNA JZ. TO V. To the following stripes apply: Crimes under the 
category of Korath, as well as under that of capital punishment, are also 
punished with stripes if they were so warned. To a negative command, 
which is preceded by a positive one, stripes apply. The culprit does not 
get stripes unless he abolishes the succeeding positive command. R. 
Simeon b. Lakish, however, differs, and says: He is free from stripes only 
when he has fulfilled the succeeding one. He who took the mother-bird 
with her children gets, according to R. Jehudah, stripes. It happened with 
a children teacher who struck too much the children, and R. A’ha excom- 
municated him ; Rabbma, however, returned him because he could not find 
as good ateacher. Stripes also apply to him who partook of the first fruit 
before the ceremony of reading was performed. If a positive succeeds a 
negative, no stripes apply. A stranger who had consumed sin and trans- 
gression offerings before their blood was sprinkled is free from any punish- 
ment. Concerning the first fruit, placing it in the temple is the main thing, 
and not the ceremony of reading. The culpability for second tithe arises 
only after it has seen the face of the wall of Jerusalem. He who makes a 
baldness in the hair of his head, or rounds it, etc., is liable. The culpability 
arises only, then, when he took it off with a razor. What should be the size 
of the bald spot which would make him culpable? If one made an incision 
with an instrument he is culpable. For dead he is culpable at all courts 
whether by hand or instrument. The culpability for etching-in arises only 
when he has done both, wrote and etched-in with dye, etc. A Nazarite who 
was drinking wine the whole day is culpable only for one negative. There 
is an instance that one may plough only one bed and shall be culpable for 
eight negatives. The number of stripes is forty less one, : - 34-47. 

MIsHNA VJ.-/X. The examination as to the number of stripes he can 
receive and remain alive must be such that can be equally divided by three. 
If one commits a sin to which two negatives apply, etc. How is the punish- 
ment with stripes to be performed? The striker strikes him with one hand 
so that the strokes shall become weaker. If, after he has been tied, he suc- 
ceeds to run away from the Court, he is free. As he was already disgraced, 
he is not taken to be disgraced again. The Lord wanted to make Israel 
blissful and therefore he multiplied to them his commands. At three places 
the Holy Spirit appeared. At the court of Shem, etc. Six hundred and 
thirteen commands were said to Moses, etc. Isaiah reduced them to six. 
Michah came and reduced them to three. Isaiah (the second) again reduced 
them totwo. ‘Keep ye justice and do equity.” Amos reduced them to 
one. ‘‘Seek ye for me, and yeshall live,” .  . aS cele Rate eee 


APPENDIX. 


He who speaks ill of his neighbor, he who listens to such evil-speak- 
ing, finally, he who bears false testimony deserves to be thrown to the 
dogs, . 7 . -* . . . . . > e 47-56. 











TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 


** The Sanhedrin who executes a person once in seven years, is considered perni- ~ 
cious. R. Eliezar b. Azariach said: Even one who does so once in seventy years is 
considered such. Both R. Tarphon and R. Aqiba said: If we were among the 
Sanhedrin, a death sentence would never occur.” (Mishna X.) 





CHAPTER I. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING COLLUSIVE WITNESSES IN 
BOTH CRIMINAL AND CIVIL CASES, AND THE APPLICATION 
THERETO OF CORPOREAL AND OTHER PUNISHMENTS, 


MISHNA /J/.: How should witnesses be made collusive (so 
that they should be punished)? If, ¢.g., they testify that so and 
so (who is a priest) is a son of a divorced woman (whom his 
father had illegally married, wherefore he lost his priesthood), the 
court has not to decide that the witness who has falsely testified 
shall be regarded such (and shall lose his priesthood if he is a 
priest), but he should be punished with forty stripes; likewise 
if one testifies that so and so is to be exiled for an unintentional 
murder, the court has not to decide that he, the witness, be 
exiled for false witnessing, but he is punished with forty 
stripes. 

GEMARA: How should the text of the Mishna be under- 
stood? It states, ‘‘ how should witnesses be made collusive,’”’ 
and according to the illustration hereafter adduced it ought to 
be: How should the witnesses not be made collusive (as the 
punishment of a collusive witness is according to the Scripture 
that the same which is to be inflicted upon the defendant if the 
accusation prove true, and it states that such a punishment does 
not apply to the witness; it furthermore states concerning the 
case of collusive witnesses, that they are considered collusive 
only, then, when another party of witnesses come and say that 
the witnesses in question were with them at another place on 


the same date on which, according to their testimony, the 
I 


2 | THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


alleged crime was done. Hence, only in such cases they are 
considered collusive, but not otherwise. The Tana of the 
Mishna refers to this passage (Sanhedrin, p. 261): “‘ Because all 
who are to be put to death biblically, their collusive witnesses 
and their abuses are punished with the same, except in the case 
of the married daughter of a priest,’’ etc. And he (the Tana) adds 
that there are another sort of witnesses who are not subject to 
the punishment of collusiveness, but who are to suffer stripes 
instead, and this are those who testify that so and so is a son of 
a divorced woman or of such who has performed the ceremony 
of chalitza. 

Whence is this deduced? Said R. Jeoshia b. Levy: From 
here [Deut. xix. 19]: ‘‘ Then shall ye do unto him as he had > 
purposed to do unto his brother; to him but not to his descend- 
ants’’ (and if the decision were that he should lose his priest- 
hood, then even his children would be affected). But let the 
court affect him only and not his descendants? This cannot be 
done, as the law dictates that it shall be done just the same to 
him as to the alleged defendant, and if such be the case his 
descendants would necessarily be affected. B. Pada, however, 
says: This is to be drawn by a fortiorz reasoning—viz.: he who 
has transgressed (by illegal marriage of a divorced woman) does 
not lose his priesthood, and only his descendants from this mar- 
riage lose it. Much less so should the witness who falsely testi- 
fied lose his priesthood. Rabbina opposed: Were we to use 
such theory the whole case of collusiveness would be made illu- 
sory. Asthe same a fortiori method could be applied thus: He 
through whose false testimony a man was already stoned, is 
not to be stoned; so much less so if the accused man was not 
as yet stoned? Therefore the best is as it is answered above. 

‘“ Is to be exiled.’’ Whence is all this deduced? Said Resh 
Lakish: From here [Deut. xix. 5]: ‘‘ This one shall flee unto one 
of these cities,’’ etc., 2.2, this one, but not his collusive wit- 
nesses. R. Jochanan, however, said: This is to be drawn by 
a fortiwrt reasoning. He who has done such a crime intention- 
ally does not become exiled; so much less so he who is only 
testifying to such acrime. This statement, however, cannot be 
taken into consideration, as the reason why an intentional mur- 
derer is not to be exiled is that he shall not be atoned. But the 
witnesses who have not perpetrated such a crime should be ex- 
iled, so that they should expiate; therefore, the best interpreta- 
tion is that of Resh Lakish given above. 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 3 


Ula said: Where do we find a hint in the Scripture that col- 
lusive witnesses shall be punished with stripes (here is quoted 
from Tract Sanhedrin, p. 20, 1. 39 to p. 21 up tol. 17. See 
there): The rabbis taught, “‘ there are four points concerning 
collusive witnesses: (2) they are not made sons of a divorced 
woman or of such who has performed the ceremony of chalitza; 
(4) they are not exiled to the cities of refuge; (c) they do not 
pay the atoned money, and (d@) they are not sold as Hebrew 
slaves.’’ In the name of R. Agqiba it was said that: Nor do 
they pay on self-confession. They are not made sons of a 
divorced woman, etc., as said above, nor are they to be exiled 
as said above, and they do not pay atoned money, because the 
rabbis hold that the money which one has to pay in case his ox 
has killed a person is not considered as a recompense for dam- 
ages, but as an atonement, and collusive witnesses are not under 
the category of atonement. And who is the Tana who holds 
this? Said R. Hisda: It is R. Ismael, the son of Johanan 
b. Brokah. (See Baba Kama, p. go, |. 2 from bottom, to 
gi, 1. 16.) 

‘‘ And they are not sold as Hebrew slaves.’’ R. Hamnuna 
was about to say that this is only in the case when he, the 
alleged defendant, has money to pay for the theft, or if the wit- 
nesses have money to pay; but in case both have not they are 
to be sold. Said Rabba to him: It reads [ibid. xxii. 2], ‘‘ he 
shall be sold for “ts theft, but not for his collusiveness.’’ The 
text says in the name of R. Aqiba, etc.: What is his reason ? 
He holds that this is only a fine, and one does not pay fine 
upon his self-confession. Said Rabba: There is a support 
to R. Agiba’s theory in the fact that a collusive witness, 
though he has not committed the crime manually, is never- 
theless responsible, and is to be killed in case his testimony 
caused a death-sentence; and likewise in civil cases he has to 
pay, although he has done no damage. And similarly said R. 
Na’hman. 

R. Jehuda in the name of Rabh said: A collusive witness 
pays his share. What does this mean? Shall we assume that 
in the case where two witnesses were found collusive each of 
them pays half? This is already stated further on in a Mishna. 
Or does it mean that if one of them was found collusive, he has 
to pay half? This is not so, as there is a Boraitha which states 
that there is no payment imposed unless both are found collu- 
sive. Said Rabha: He speaks of the case when one came before 


, 


4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the court testifying: I, together with so and so, have testified 
before such and such a court, and we, having been found collu- 
sive, the court has decided that we have to pay such and such 
an amount, And lest one say that, as his testimony does not 
make liable his colleague, he himself should not be responsible 
either, he comes to teach us that this is not so. 

MISHNA J/Z/.: We testify that so and so has divorced his 
wife and has not paid the amount mentioned in her marriage 
contract (and that testimony was false). Although they have 
not done any damage, as the husband has to pay the marriage 
contract at some time, they are nevertheless not free from the 
following payméent—namely, it is to be appraised how much one 
would risk for her marriage contract in case she should remain 
a widow or be divorced. However, if she died while her hus- 
band is still alive, he would inherit her (and such an amount 
they have to pay). 

GEMARA: How should the appraisement be made? (here 
are two kinds of risks, one can risk to buy the inheritance of a 
woman from her husband, who would inherit her in case of her 
death when he is still alive; and one can also risk to buy this 
from the woman in case her husband die first. However, there 
is a great difference concerning the amount one would risk. As 
a rule, one would give much more when buying it from the hus- 
band than from the wife). According to R. ’Hisda the appraise- 
ment must be of the husband’s, and according to R. Nathan b. 
Oshia, of the wife’s estate. Said R. Papa: It prevails that the 
appraisement should be as of the wife’s, and only to the amount 
mentioned in her marriage contract, without, however, touching 
the benefit which her husband has in the fruit of her estate 
while she is yet alive. 

MISHNA J///.: We testify that so and so owes to his neighbor 
a thousand zuz on the condition to pay him this debt after thirty 
days from to-day. He, however, claims that he has to pay the 
amount at the expiration of ten years: and such was found to 
be the case. It remains, then, to appraise how much one would 
give for keeping a thousand zuz ten years instead of thirty days, 
and such an amount they have to pay. 

GEMARA: R. Jehuda in the name of Samuel said: If one 
made a loan to his neighbor for ten years the Sabbathic year 
does not annul it, and although when the Sabbathic year will 
arrive, he would transgress the negative commandment. ‘‘ He 
shall not exact it of his neighbor ’’ [Deut. xv. 2], yet at present 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 5 


this commandment does not exist, and we do not care for the 
later time. Said R. Kahana: This we have also learned in our 
Mishna, which states that the witnesses have to pay only the 
difference between thirty days and ten years. And if the Sab- 
bathic year released the whole debt, they would have to pay 
the whole thousand zuz. Said Rabha: The Mishna may refer to 
one who lends his money on a pledge, or to one who transfers 
his documents to the court; and there is a Mishna teaching that 
in such cases the Sabbathic year has no effect. 

R. Jehuda said again in the name of the same authority: 
““ If one says I will make you a loan with the stipulation that 
the Sabbathic year shall not release me, it nevertheless releases.”’ 
Shall we assume that Samuel holds that such is considered a 
condition against the biblical law, and it therefore does not hold 
good? Is it not taught (Baba Metzia, p. 126) if one says: I sell 
this article to you on the condition that you shall not claim any 
cheating against me, etc.? According to Samuel the condition 
holds good, though such a condition is against the written law ? 
Yea, but to this it was added by R. Anan that Samuel himself 
has explained it to him (see continuation, p. 127); and according 
to this explanation there is no contradiction here. Now as the 
case here is analogous, it follows that he made the condition: 
“‘ The Sabbathic year shall not release me, it releases neverthe- 
less. But if he says in the condition that you shall not release 
it, then his condition holds good.’’ 

There is a Boraitha to the effect that if one loans money to 
his neighbor without a fixed term of return, he has no right to 
demand it before the elapse of thirty days. And Raba b. b. 
‘Hana was about to interpret this Boraitha in the presence of 
Rabh that such is the case only when he lends on a document, 
as one would not trouble himself to write a document for less 
than thirty days; but if it was a verbal loan, he may demand it 
at any time. Said Rabh to him: So said my uncle that there 
is no difference between a verbal and a written loan as regards 
the thirty days, so long as the loan was made without any term. 
Similarly we have learned in a Boraitha. Samuel said to R. 
Mathna: You shall not sit down before you have explained me 
the courses wherefrom is based the Halakha that one shall not 
demand a loan no matter whether it be verbal or written before 
the elapse of thirty days? And he answered from [ibid., ibid. 9]: 
‘“ The seventh year, the year of release,’’ etc. Is it not self- 
evident that the seventh year is the year of release? why then 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the apposition? To tell that there is another release similar, 
and this is a loan without a term which cannot be demanded 
before thirty days, as the master said that thirty days, a frag- 
ment of a year, is considered a whole year. 

MISHNA /V.: We testify that so and so owes 200 zuz to 
his neighbor, and they were found collusive; they have to suffer 
both stripes and payment, because the negative commandment 
for the trespass of which they have to receive stripes does not 
make them pay. And only another verse concerning collusive- 
ness makes them to pay. Such is the decree of R. Mair. The 
sages, however, maintain that he who pays is not to be pun- 
ished with stripes. If they testify that so and so has deserved 
forty stripes, and are found collusive, they are to be punished 
with twice forty stripes, once on the basis of the negative com- 
mandment: ‘* Thou shalt not bear false witness,’’ and, sec- 
ondly, on that of the commandment: ‘‘ Shall ye do unto him 
as he had purposed to do unto his brother’’; such is the decree 
of R. Mair. The sages, however, say: they suffer stripes only 
once. 

GEMARA: This is in accord with the rabbis’ theory, which 
reads [ibid. xxv. 2]: ‘‘ According to the degree of his fault,’’ 
which statement is to be explained that he is made responsible 
for one fault, and not for two. But what is the reason of R. 
Mair’s decree? Said Ula: He bases it upon the case of an evil 
name, for which crime the law prescribes the double punishment 
of stripes and payment, and analogous is the case here treated. 
But is not the payment for an evil name considered a fine? He, 
R. Mair, holds with R. Aqiba that the payment of collusive 
witnesses is also required as a fine. 

There are others who refer the saying of Ula to the following 
Boraitha: It reads [Ex. xii. 10]; (see Sanhedrin, p. 185, 1. 23, 
to the end of the par.), and to the question, whence is it known 
that to a negative commandment that does not contain manual 
labor, the punishment of stripes does not apply, Ula answered 
from the case of an evil name stated above. What, then, do the 
rabbis who do not hold that they shall be beaten twice infer 
from ‘‘ Thou shalt not bear false witness’’? They need this 
for a warning to the case of collusiveness. And where is to be 
found such a warning according to R. Mair? Said R. Jeramaia 
in [Deut. xix. 20]: ‘‘ And those who remain shall hear and be 
afraid, and shall henceforth,’’ etc. The rabbis, however, infer 
from this passage that such a case must be heralded (see Sanhe- 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). . 


_ drin, p. 256). As to R. Mair, he, too, infers from here herald- 
ing, as according to him the words ‘‘ and shall be afraid’’ would 
be superfluous, if heralding were not inferred therefrom. 

MISHNA V.: The fine of money 1aay be divided into two 
or three shares; however, this is not to be done with stripes. 
How so? If they have falsely testified that one owes to his 
neighbor 200 zuz, and they were two or three persons, each of 
them has to pay his share to complete that amount. But if 
they have falsely testified that one deserves forty stripes, each 
of them is to get forty stripes in full. 

GEMARA: Whence is all this deduced? Said Abaye: 
Concerning stripes, it reads [Deut. xxv. 2]: ‘‘ Wicked’’; and 
[Numb. xxxv. 31] it reads also ‘‘ wicked’’ concerning capital 
punishment, and as that cannot be divided, so stripes are not to 
be divided either. Rabha, however, said: The reason is this: 
The punishment ought to be done to him as he had the purpose 
to do it to his brother. And as each one of them intended that 
the defendant be beaten with forty stripes, he has to get just 
the same. But why should not the same be concerning money 
fine? Because money if counted together completes the amount 
he should suffer, which is not the case with stripes. 

MISHNA V/.: Witnesses cannot be made collusive unless 
the falsehood lies in their bodies; how so? If, e.g., they testify 
that so and so has killed a person and another party of witnesses 
came to contradict them, saying: Howcan you testifyso? The 
killed one or the alleged murderer was with us at that date in 
such and such a place. They are, nevertheless, not considered 
collusive (so that they should be killed instead); but if the other 
party say you yourself were with us at that date in such a place, 
consequently you could see neither the murderer nor the killed 
one, then they are considered collusive and are to be killed upon 
such a testimony. If, thereafter, a third party of witnesses came 
and made collusive the second party, and a fourth party made 
collusive the third party, even if the number reach to I00 par- 
ties they all are to be killed. R. Jehuda, however, maintains 
that such parties of witnesses are to be considered oraois, and 
only the first party is to be killed. 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? Said R. Ada: From 
[Deut. xix. 18]: ‘‘ And, behold, if the witness be a false wit- 
ness, he hath testified a falsehood against his brother,’’ which 
means that the body of the witness should be found false. The 
disciples of R. Ismael taught, it reads [ibid., ibid. xix. 16]: 


8 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘‘ Testify against him for any deviation,’’* which means the 
testifying itself should be a deviation. 

Rabha said: ‘‘ If two persons testify that one has killed a 
man in the east side of such and sucha palace, and another party 
of witnesses come, saying that the same witnesses were with 
them in the west of the same, it is to be investigated if, while 
standing on the west side, one can see what is going on in the 
east side, they are not to be considered collusive, otherwise they 
are.’’ Is this not self-evident? Lest one say that we have to 
investigate, perhaps their sight is better than the usual one, so 
that they could see, he comes to teach us that this does not 
matter. The same said again: ‘‘ If two have testified that one 
has killed a person in the City of Sura Sunday morning, and 
another party came and testified that the same persons were 
with them in the City of N’hardaia Sunday evening, an investi- 
gation is to be made, if it is possible. 

If the investigation shows that it is possible for one to walk 
during that time from Sura to N’hardaia, then they are not col- 
lusive; otherwise they are.’’ Is this not self-evident? Lest 
one say it is to be feared perhaps the man went to the latter 
city in a balloon, + he comes to teach us that such fear must not 
be taken into consideration. 

And he said again: If they testify that on Sunday one has 
killed a person and are contradicted by another party that on 
Sunday they were with them, however it is a fact that the same 
person has killed a man on Monday; or even if. they said that 
this man killed a person on Friday, the collusive witnesses are 
to be put to death, because at the time they testified the de- 
fendant was not as yet sentenced to death. But if they testified 
that the death sentence occurred on Sunday, and the other 
party testifies that they were with them at that time, the sen- 
tence, however, having occurred on Friday, or even on Monday, 
the first party is not to be considered collusive, because at the 
time they testified, the defendant was already sentenced to 
death. And the same is the case concerning fines. If, for in- 
stance, they testify that so and so has stolen an ox, slaughtered 
him or sold, on Sunday (for which he has to pay four and five 
fold), and the other party says that on Sunday they were with 





* Leaser translates ‘‘ wrong”; however, he is wrong according to the sense in 
the text. f 


+ The text says it shall be feared that they went there on a flying camel. We 
have rendered it a balloon, as the sense is the same. 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 9 


them, but the defendant did so on Monday, the first party is 
subject to the fine, because on Sunday the defendant was not 
as yet liable. However, if they say that the accused has done 
so on Friday; or even if they say that the decision of the 
court occurred on Monday the first party is not considered col- 
lusive, because at the time they testified, the man was already 
sentenced to a fine. 

“ R. Jehuda, however, said,’’ etc. But according to him that 
all the parties are stacis, why should the first party be put to 
death? Said Rabha: He means to say that if there was only 
one party of witnesses. But did he not say the first party only? 
This difficulty remains. AA woman once brought witnesses, and 
they were found false. She then brought another party, who 
were also found false. She then brought a third party. Said 
Resh Lakish: This woman is to be considered suspicious whose 
purpose is to use false witnesses. Said R. Alazar to him: Be- 
cause she is suspicious should all Israel be suspected of testify- 
ing falsely? Such acase happened also before the court of R. 
Johanan, and Resh Lakish said the same as above. But 
R. Johanan exclaimed: ‘‘ If she is suspicious should all Israel 
be suspected ?’’ He (Resh Lakish) looked at R. Alazar rebuk- 
ingly, saying: You have heard your statement from Bar Naf’ha 
(R. Johanan), and you have not mentioned his name! Shall we 
assume that R. Johanan is in accordance with the rabbis of our 
Mishna, and Resh Lakish is in accordance with R. Jehuda? 
Nay. Resh Lakish may say: ‘‘I am in accordance even with 
the rabbis, as in that case there was no one who searched for 
witnesses. In this case, however, the woman was searching for 
them. And R. Johanan may say: “‘I am in accordance with 
R. Jehuda’’; however, this case is different, as she may have 
thought that the first parties were aware of her case, and she 
erred. The third party, however, may be aware of it. 

MISHNA V/Z/Z.: Collusive witnesses are not to be killed 
unless the sentence of capital punishment for the defendant is 
rendered. As only the Saducier declare that the collusive wit- 
nesses are put to death after the defendant was executed. Be- 
cause it reads [Ex. xxi. 23]: “* Life for life,’’ to which the sages 
answered: Is it not written: “‘ It shall be done to him as he 
had purposed to do unto his brother’’? which means that his 
brother is still alive. Why, then, is it written ‘‘ Life for life’ ? 
Lest one say that they should be executed as soon as their testi- 
mony was accepted, therefore it reads, ‘‘ Life for life,’’ to teach 


10 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


that they are to be put to death only, then, when the death sen- 
tence for the defendant was already rendered. 

GEMARA: There is a Boraitha Biribi says: If the man who 
was accused by them was not executed as yet, the collusive wit- 
nesses are put to death; but if he was already executed, they ~ 
are not. Said his father: ‘“ My son, can this not be argued by 
a fortiort reasoning that they should be put to death, if the 
accused was executed?’’ And he answered: ‘‘ My master, have 
you not taught me that there is no punishment on the ground 
of a fortiori conclusions?’’ And this we have learned in the 
following Boraitha: It reads [Lev. xx. 17]: ‘‘ If a man take his 
sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother,’’ 
from this we know only about the daughter of his father, not of 
his mother, and vice versa. But where do we know that he is 
guilty when she was the daughter both of his father and mother? 
To this it reads at the end of this verse, ‘* The nakedness of his 
sister hath he uncovered.’’ And this is written only for the 
purpose that one should not say that such is to be drawn by 
a fortiort conclusion, thus: If he is guilty for his sister who was 
only from one side, his father’s or mother’s, how much the more 
should he be guilty when she was his sister from both sides? 
Hence, from this we have to learn, that there is no punishment 
based on a fortiorz conclusions. Thus far concerning punishment; 
but whence do we know that the same is the case concerning 
warning? To this it reads [ibid. xviii. 9g]: ‘“ The nakedness of 
thy sister, the daughter of thy father, or the daughter of thy 
mother.’’ And it is also repeated [ibid., ibid. ii.]: ““ She isa 
sister,’’ etc. Also for this purpose one shall not base this on 
a fortiort conclusion. All this is concerning capital punish- 
ment. But whence do we know that the same is the case with 
stripes? From an analogy of the expression ‘‘ wicked ’’ stated 
above (p. 7) and whence do we know that the same is the case 
concerning exile? From the analogy of expression “‘ murder ’’ 
_as stated above. There is a Boraitha. R. Jehuda b. Tabai said: 
““ May I not live to see the consolation of our nation, if I have 
not killed a collusive witness for the purpose of removing from 
the mind of the Saducier, who say that, collusive witnesses are 
not put to death, unless their accused were executed. Said 
Simeon ben Shata’h to him: I, too, swear by the consolation of 
our nation that you had shed innocent blood, as the law dictates 
that witnesses should not be put to death unless both of them 
are found collusive. Then Jehuda ben Tabai decided that he 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 11 


shall not render any decision before consulting Simeon ben 
Shatah. And all his lifetime he used to prostrate himself upon 
the grave of that witness. And a voice was heard. People 
thought that this was the voice of the dead one. But Jehuda 
told them that it was his own voice, saying, ‘‘ You will see that 
after my death no voice will be heard.”’ : | 

MISHNA V///.: It reads [Deut. xvii. 6]: ‘‘ Upon the evi- 
dence of two or of three witnesses, shall he that is worthy of 
death,’’ etc. If the evidence of two persons is sufficient, why 
does the Scripture mention three? To compare the evidence of 
three to that of two in the case of collusiveness, as another party 
of two, make the first party of two collusive, so they make 
them collusive even if the first is of three. And whence do we 
know that, even if they were a hundred persons, the evidence 
of two persons is sufficient? To this it reads: ‘‘ Witnesses.’’ 
R. Simeon, however, maintains that as two cannot be put to 
death, unless both of them are found collusive, so is it if they 
were three, all of them must be found collusive. And even if 
their number reaches a hundred, all of them must be found col- 
lusive before sentencing one of them to death. R. Aqiba, how- 
ever, maintains that the third witness mentioned in the Scrip- 
ture was not for the purpose to make for him the punishment 
more lenient, but, on the contrary, to make it more rigorous— 
viz., lest one say as the testimony of the third one was super- 
fluous, because the evidence of two suffices, and, therefore, he 
should not be punished at all. The Scripture terms the third 
one in order to make him equal with the former two. From 
this we see that the verse punishes one, an accomplice who con- 
joins himself to transgressors, with the same punishment to be 
inflicted upon the transgressors themselves. And we may learn 
from this: That so much the more will he who conjoins himself 
to those who are engaged in meritorious acts, be rewarded 
equally with them. Three witnesses are also equal to two in 
case one of them was found a relative or legally unfit for wit- 
nessing, as it is in the case of two when the testimony is invali- 
dated, so it is in the case when one of the three was found such. 
And the same law applies even when their number reaches a 
hundred, from the expression ‘‘ Witnesses.’’ Said R. Jose: 
This is said concerning criminal cases only, but in civil cases, if 
one was found a relative or unfit, the evidence of the remainder 
is to be taken into consideration. Rabh, however, said, that as 
regards this there is no difference between civil and criminal 


12 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


cases. However, this rule holds good only when the relatives 
took part in warning the trespasser; but if they did not, the 
evidence of the others must be taken into consideration, since, 
if not, what could two brothers do when both saw that some 
one has killed a person (and there were also some other ones who 
have seen the murder, should then the testimony of the others 
be eliminated as void because there were also two brothers) ? 

GEMARA;: Rabha said: The Mishna treats of a case where 
all of them have testified at once. Said R. A’ha of Difti to 
Rabbina: How could such a thing be possible with a hundred 
persons; could all of them testify at once? And he answered: 
It means that every one of them has testified just as his col- 
league has finished his testimony. | 

‘“ What could two brothers do?’’ But how shall the court 
examine them? Said Rabha: They are to be questioned for 
what purpose they came here: to testify, or merely to see? If 
they say, we came to testify, then, if there was a relative or an 
unfit among them, their testimony is void; but if they say that 
merely to see, then must be taken into consideration the testi- 
mony of the others, since what could two brothers do, etc., as 
illustrated in Mishna. 

It was taught: R. Jehuda in the name of Samuel said: The 
Halakha rules in accordance with R. Jose. And R. Nachman 
said: It rules in accordance with Rabbi. 

MISHNA LX.: If two persons have seen the crime from one 
window and two others have seen it from another window, and 
there was one standing in the middle and warning the criminal, 
if the two parties could see each other, all of them are consid- 
ered as one party of witnesses. But if not, they are considered 
two parties. And therefore if one of the parties was found col- 
lusive, he (the accused) and they (the collusive) are put to 
death, and the other party is free. R. Jose, however, maintains 
that there is no capital punishment unless two witnesses have 
warned this culprit, as it reads: ‘“ Upon the mouth of two wit- 
nesses.’* Another explanation of the words upon the mouth 
is that the Sanhedrin must not hear the evidence from a dem- 
onstrator (but they themselves must understand the language of 


the witness). 
GEMARA: R. Zuthra b. Tubia in the name of Rabh said: 





* The term in the Bible is a/ ge and the Hebrew term for mouth is Ze, and he 
takes it literally. 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 13 


Whence do we know that one witness is not relied upon? From 
[ibid., ibid. 6]: ‘“ He shall not be put to death upon the evi- 
dence of one witness.’’ What does the expression, ‘‘ one wit- 
ness,’’ mean? If it means that the testimony of one witness does 
not suffice, this is already stated above, “‘ two witnesses ’’; hence 
it means that if two witnesses saw the crime separately, each from 
another place, and if they themselves could not see each other, 
such witnesses are not considered conjoined, so that their testi- 
mony should be taken into consideration, Furthermore, even 
if this was from one window, but one has seen it first, and then 
the other, they are likewise not to be considered conjoined. 
Said R. Papa to Abayi: Was it necessary to state this after the 
former statement, that even if each of them has seen the whole 
crime they are not to be conjoined if they do not see each other? 
So much the less so if each of them has seen but half of the act. 
And he answered: He speaks of an adultery case. Rabha said: 
If both of the witnesses have seen him who warned them, they 
are considered conjoined. And he said again that the warning 
suffices even if it comes from the mouth of the killed one. And 
even if a voice of warning was heard without their knowing whom 
itis from. R. Na’hman said: The individual witnesses in ques- 
tion are fit for civil cases, as it reads: ‘‘ He shalt not be put Zo 
death wpon the evidence of one witness,’’ from which we learn 
about criminal cases only, but in civil cases they are to be con- 
sidered. 

“ R. Jose said,’’ etc.: Said R. Papa to Abayi: does R. Jose 
really hold suchatheory? Have we not learned in a Mishna that 
if an enemy has killed unintentionally, he may be put to death 
because he is considered vicious, and warned? And he an- 
swered: This is not R. Jose from our Mishna, but R. Jose b. 
Jehuda from the following Boraitha, who said: A scholar needs 
no warning, for the warning is on the whole only for the pur- 
pose, that the court know whether it was done intentionally or 
unintentionally. 

““ From a demonstrator,’’ etc. There were two foreigners 
who appeared in the court of Rabha, and he appointed an inter- 
preter for them. But why did he do so? Is it not stated that 
the judges must not hear the case through an interpreter? 
Rabha understood what they said, but he could not answer 
them in that language. 

Ailea and Tubia were relatives of a surety, and R. Papa was 
about to say that they are fit to be witnesses, because they are . 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


not relatives of the lender and borrower. Said R. Huna b. 
R. Joshua to him: If the borrower should not pay would not 
the lender demand the debt from the surety? Hence they are 
considered relatives in this case, and are not fit to be witnesses. 
MISHNA .: If, after the decision had been rendered the 
' guilty one ran away, and thereafter he returned to the same 
court, his case must not be reconsidered. Everywhere, if two 
persons standing at any place testify that a decision was ren- 
dered for so and so by such and such a court, according to the 
testimony of the witnesses, so and so, the accused may be put 
to death upon their testimony. 

The court of Sanhedrin is to be established in Palestine as 
well as in the countries outside of it. | 

The Sanhedrin who executes a person once in seven years, is 
considered pernicious. R. Eliezar b. Azariach said: Even one 
who does so once in seventy years is considered such. Both R. 
Tarphon and R. Aqiba said: If we were among the Sanhedrin, 
a death sentence would never occur. To which R. Simeon b. 
Gamaliel said: Such scholars would only increase bloodshed in 
Israel. : 

GEMARA: The Mishna states if he return to the same 
court his case must not be reconsidered. From which it is to 
be understood that if he returns to another court, it is to be 
reconsidered. And in the latter part it states that if two testify 
that such a decision was rendered, etc., he is to be put to death 
without any reconsideration? Said Abayi: This presents no 
difficulty. If he runs away to a court in Palestine from outside, 
it is to be reconsidered. As it is stated in the following Bo- 
raitha, R. Jehuda b. Dusthai said in the name of R. Simeon b. 
Shatah: That if one runs from the Palestine court to an outside 
court, his case must not be reconsidered. But if wéce versa, it 
is to be reversed, because of the privilege Palestine has. 

‘““ Sanhedrin are to be established,’’ etc. Whence is this 
deduced? From what the rabbis taught. It reads [Numb. 
XxXxvV. 29]: “‘ For a statute of justice throughout your genera- 
tions, in all your dwellings.’’ From this it is inferred that San- 
hedrin are to be established in Palestine as well as in the coun- 
tries outside. But why is it written elsewhere ‘‘ in thy gates’’? 
To say that ‘‘in thy gates’’ in Palestine, you have to establish 
courts in every principal city, as well as in the small cities; but . 
in the countries out of Palestine, you have to establish them in 
the large cities but not in the small ones. 


CHAPTER Il, 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING UNINTENTIONAL MURDER 
AND EXILE WHICH IS THE PUNISHMENT THEREFOR,—WHO IS 
AND WHO IS NOT SUBJECT TO EXILE.—THE CITIES OF EXILE 
AND THEIR PREPARATIONS.—THE REDEEMING OF THE EXILED BY 
THE DEATH OF THE HIGH-PRIEST. . 


MISHNA /.: The following are exiled: He who kills a per- 
son unintentionally. If, ¢.g., one fixes his roof with a machine 
and the latter falls from his hand and kills a man, or if he takes 
off a barrel from the roof and it falls from his hand and kills, or 
if he himself falls from the ladder while descending and kills, he 
is to be exiled. However, if, while carrying the machine up 
to the roof, or pulling a barrel on a rope up to the roof, the 
rope breaks and the barrel falls and kills, or if he himself, while 
ascending to the roof, falls and kills, there is no exile. Asthere 
is a rule that for killing while descending, he is exiled, but not 
while ascending. | 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? Said Samuel: From 
[Numb. xxxv. 23]: “‘ And he have let it fall upon him, that he 
died,’’ which means that it fell in the usual manner. The 
rabbis taught [ibid., ibid. 15]: ‘‘ Unawares’’ means to exclude 
the case when it was done intentionally; [Deut. xix. 4] ‘‘ with- 
out knowledge’’ to exclude him who intends to do so. But is 
it not self-evident that he who kills a person intentionally is to 
be put to death? Said Rabha: It excludes even him who 
thought that such is allowed. Said Abayi to him: Is the act of 
one who thought that such is allowed not to be considered an 
accident? Answered Rabha: I hold that such is to be consid- 
ered almost intentional. 

Further on it is stated ‘‘ without knowledge to exclude him 
who intended to do so.’’ Is this not self-evident? Said Rabha: 
z.€., to exclude him who intended to kill an animal, and killed 
aman, or miscarried and killed a full term child. 

The rabbis taught: It reads [Numb. xxxv. 22]: ‘‘If he 
have pushed against him accidentally ’’ means to exclude a cor- 

15 


16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


ner (where the injured one has entered, while the murderer was 
going from the opposite with a knife in his hand and wounded 
the former). ‘‘ Without enmity’’ excludes the case where the 
murderer was his enemy. ‘‘ Pushed’’ means with his body. 
‘* Or have cast upon him’’ includes the one who injured while 
bending himself for the purpose of raising his instrument to 
land the blow harder. ‘‘ Without lying in wait’’ excludes him 
who intended to strike in one side, but struck in the opposite. 
[Ex. xxi. 13] ‘‘ And if he did not lie in wait ’’ excludes the one 
who intended to throw it as far as two and threw it four yards. 
[Deut. xix. 5] ‘‘ And he that goeth into the forest with his 
neighbor ’’ means as the entrance into a forest is permitted to 
every one, so also must the place be open where the accident hap- 
pened—be open to every one—to the injurer as well as to the in- 
jured. R. Abuhu questioned R. Johanan: What is the law in this 
case: If one was climbing a ladder and, astep having been broken 
under him, he fell down and killed; is this to be considered on 
ascending, for which one is not liable, or on descending, for which 
he is? And he answered: It is already explained above: That 
a descending for the purpose of ascending is included. He 
(Abuhu) objected to him from the following: ‘* This is the rule, 
that if while descending he is to be exiled, but if while ascend- 
ing, he is not.’’ Does not the expression “‘ while ascending ’”’ 
include a similar case to that about which I questioned you? 
And he answered: According to your theory, the expression 
““ while descending ’’ must also include something. And what 
is it? You must then say that it means to include chopping, e.¢., 
' a butcher that chops meat and kills a man (bya slip of the 
hatchet, etc.); similarly it may be said that the expression 
““ while ascending’’ means to exclude same. As we have 
learned in the following Boraitha: ‘‘ A butcher who has chopped 
meat,’’ etc. One Boraitha declares him guilty if the killing was 
in front of him, but not if it happened behind. And another 
Boraitha asserts the contrary. A third one, however, declares 
him free at any rate. And they are not contradictory, since 
one of them speaks of the case that, while he was bending him- 
self, the accident took place in front of him, he is then responsi- 
ble. And if through his rising the accident happened behind, 
he is free. And the other two Boraithas speak of cases which 
happened to be in the contrary and otherwise. 

Shall we assume that in this case the Tanaim of the follow- 
ing Boraitha differ—viz.: If one has climbed a ladder and the 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 17 


step under him broke and killed, one Boraitha declares him 
guilty, and another free. Is it not because one considered his 
climbing as ascending and the other as descending? Nay, accord- 
ing to both, it is considered as ascending. But that which declares 
him liable means in respect of damages, and that which declares 
him free means from exile. 

MISHNA //.: If the iron of a hatchet slipped off and 
killed, according to Rabbi he is not to be exiled, and accord- 
ing to the sages he is. The same differ also as regards the 
case where a piece of wood split off from the felled tree and 
kills; according to Rabbi he is, and according to the sages he is 
not exiled. | | 

GEMARA: There isa Boraitha. Rabbi said to the sages: 
Does it read [Deut. xix. 5]: ‘‘ Theiron slippeth from z¢s tree’’? 
It reads, “‘ from the tree.’’ And secondly, in the beginning of 
the verse the expression is ‘‘ to hew (e¢z) trees,’’ and here with 
‘“the iron slippeth,’’.the same word, efz, is used, whence, as 
above, it means that a chip slipped from the tree, so by the 
expression ‘‘from the etz’’ is meant a piece of wood split 
from the tree. Hence, he is to be exiled. Said R. Hiye b. 
Ashe in the name of Rabh: Both (the sages and Rabbi) took 
their opinion from one and the same passage cited above. Rabbi 
holds that the law must be decided in accordance with the 
Masora writing, which is ‘‘ v’xzshshel,’’ z.e., and the iron chips 
off a part of the wood. And the rabbis hold that the attention 
must be called to the traditional reading which is v’xashal, 2.¢., 
““and the iron slips off the helve.’’ But does Rabbi indeed 
hold that attention must be given to the Masora? Did not 
R. Itz’hak b. Joseph in the name of R. Jo’hanan say: Rabbi, 
R. Jehuda b. Roietz, the school of Shamai, R. Simeon and R. 
Aqiba all hold that the attention must be given to the tradi- 
tional reading? For this purpose Rabbi added in his discussion 
““and secondly,”’ etc. 

R. Papa said: If one threw a lump of brittle stone at a date 
tree and the dates fell off and killed (a child), we come to the 
differing of Rabbi and the sages mentioned in our Mishna. 

Is this not self-evident? Lest one say that Rabbi would 
consider this as a secondary force (z.e., the killing was not the 
result of the direct force of the man who struck the tree, but of 
the second force of the tree), he came to teach us that it is not 
so. What then is considered second force according to Rabbi? 


If, e.g., he struck a bare branch of the tree, and 7¢ struck the 
2 


18 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


branch upon which the dates were growing, and the dates fell 
and killed. 

MISHNA /J///.: If one throws a stone in a public ground 
and it kills, he is to be exiled. R. Eliezer b. Jacob, however, 
maintains: If after the stone had been thrown one bent his head 
and received it, the thrower is free. If one throws a stone in 
his yard and kills a person, he is guilty if the killed one had a 
right to enter it, otherwise he is not. Because concerning this 
case a forest is mentioned in the Scripture, that the place of 
injuring should be similar to a forest into which every one is 
allowed to enter; excluding a private yard into which every one 
is not permitted to enter. Aba Shaul said: As the hewing of 
wood (mentioned in the Scripture in this case) is a private thing, 
so also the punishment of exile attaches but to a private act; 
excluding, ¢.g., a father who struck his son, or a teacher his 
pupil, or the messenger of the court who was on duty. 

GEMARA: In public ground! Then he must be considered 
an intentional murderer? Said R. Samuel b. Itz’hak: It speaks 
that the accident occurred while he was removing his wall (see 
the discussion to this answer in Baba Kama, p. 72, |. 11-26). 

‘R. Eliezer b. Jacob said,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: It reads 
[Deut. xix. 5]: ‘“ And find* his neighbor,’’ to exclude him who 
causes himself to be found under the stone. And from this 
R. Eliezer b. Jacob inferred his theory, that if after the stone 
was already thrown, one has put his head under it and was 
killed, the thrower is free. 

“As hewing wood,’’ etc. One of the rabbis questioned 
Rabha: Is hewing wood always considered a private affair? Is 
there not a meritorious act to hew wood for making a Sukka or 
for the purpose of burning it upon the altar? Hence, if an acci- 
dent happened by such an act, let him be free. And he an- 
swered: This cannot be considered so, as a Sukka can be pre- 
pared from hewed wood, and the same it is with the altar. 
Hence, such an act cannot be considered meritorious. 

MISHNA ///.: A father is exiled if the accident happened 
to his son, and vice versa. All kinds of human beings are exiled 
when they killed by accident an Israelite; and same is exiled if 
he killed one of them accidentally, except a proselyte (who 
accepted upon himself only the seven commandments which 





* Leeser translates ‘‘ striketh ” according to the sense, The text, however, takes 
it literally. 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). j 19 


were given to the descendants of Noah) who is to be exiled 
only, then, when he killed accidentally a proselyte like himself. 

GEMARA: The Mishna states: A father is exiled if he 
killed his-son accidentally. Was it not taught above that a 
father who struck his son is excluded? It speaks of a case where 
the son was already a learned one; or of a father who taught 
a trade to his son, who had had already another trade. 

“* And the son may be extled,’’ etc. There is a contradiction 
from the following. It reads [Numb. xxxv. 15]: ‘‘ That killeth 
any person unintentionally.’’ ‘‘ Any person’’ means to exclude 
him who struck his father? Said R. Ka’hana: This presents no 
difficulty; the cited Boraitha is in accordance with R. Simeon, 
who holds that choking, which applies to killing one’s father, is 
more rigorous, and such cannot be atoned. And our Mishna is 
in accordance with the rabbis, who hold that the sword is more 
rigorous than choking. And therefore the sword applies to par- 
ricide; however, an error in a crime to which the sword applies, 
can be atoned. 

‘* All kinds of human being,’’ etc. What does the expression 
‘all’? mean to add? Ifa heathen and a slave, this was taught 
by the rabbis: A heathen ora slave is to be exiled or punished 
with stripes through an Israelite and wice versa. But how is 
this to be understood? It is correct that they are to be exiled 
in case an Israelite was accidentally killed by them, and by 
stripes if they cursed an Israelite. But how can this be done 
with an Israelite? It is correct that he is exiled when he killed 
one of them accidentally; however, how can he be beaten if he 
cursed one of them? Is it not written [Ex. xxii. 27]: “‘ And 
a ruler among thy people thou shalt not curse.’’ And it was 
explained that it speaks of him who acts according to the rules 
of thy people. Said R. A’hab. R. Aika: It speaks of acase that 
one of the above-mentioned has hit an Israelite in such a man- 
ner as could not be appraised with payment. As R. Ami said 
in the name of R. Jo’hanan, that in such a case the heathen gets 
stripes. And the same is the case when an Israelite hits a 
heathen. And we do not compare the case of hitting with the 
case of cursing. 

‘ Except a proselyte,’’ etc. There are some who presented 
a question of contradiction in the following passages—viz. 
(Numb. xxxv. 15]: ‘‘ For the children of Israel, and for the 
stranger and for the sojourner among them, shall these six 
cities,’’ etc., while [ibid., ibid. 12] ‘ And these cities shall be 


20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


unto you for a refuge,’’ which means to exclude strangers. Said 
R. Kahana: ‘‘ This presents no difficulty; verse 12 means in 
case the stranger killed an Israelite, while verse 15 speaks of 
a stranger who killed one of his like.’’ But there is a contra- 
diction from the following: *‘ And therefore a stranger, or an 
idolator who has killed even unintentionally is put to death; 
hence, it compares a stranger to an idolator, as in the case of an 
idolator there is no difference whether he kills a person of his 
like, or any person. The same is the case with a stranger.”’ 
Said R. ’Hisda: ‘‘ This presents no difficulty, as one Boraitha 
speaks of him who killed while descending, and the other while 
ascending. He who killed while descending, in which case an 
Israelite is to be exiled, is also exiled; but if he killed while 
ascending, in which case an Israelite.is free, is put to death.’’ 
Said Rabha to him: ‘‘ Is it not to be drawn by a fortiorz argu- 
ment that in such a case he is to be free; namely, if while de- 
scending, in which case an Israelite is exiled, he is also exiled 
only; in case of ascending, in which an Israelite is free, so much 
the more he should not’ be put to death ?’’ and therefore, says 
Rabha, that only then when the stranger has killed intention- 
ally, thinking that such is allowed; and this is in accordance 
with his foregoing theory (p. 15) that such is to be consid- 
ered almost intentional. Abayi and R. ’Hisda, however, con- 
sider such a case an accident. Rabha objected to them from 
the following [Gen. xx. 3]: “‘ Behold, thou shalt die for the 
sake of the woman whom thou hast taken.’’ Does this not 
mean that he will die upon the decision of a human court? 
(Hence, although Abimelech thought she is single, neverthe- 
less the court would sentence him to death)? Nay, it means he 
deserves death by Heaven. And as evidence to this can be 
adduced, the expression [ibid., ibid. 6] “‘ against me.’’ But 
how can this theory be taken as evidence? Is it not written 
[ibid. xxxix. 9] ‘‘ and sin against God’’? Does this mean and 
not against men? It surely means that for such a sin against 
God he will be tried by the human court (which punishes adul- 

tery with death). 

Abayi objected to Rabha from [ibid. xx. 4]: ‘* Lord, wilt 

thou then slay also a righteous nation?’’ (Hence we see that 
his uncertainty is considered accidentally.) Nay, this objection 
was already met as follows: It reads [ibid., ibid. 7]: ‘‘ For he is 
a prophet.’’ Howis this to be understood? Because he is a 
prophet she has to be returned, but if a layman, she would not 





TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 21 


have to be returned? We must then say that this passage is to 
be interpreted in accordance with R. Samuel b. Na’hman thus: 
‘‘ Thou shalt return the wife at any rate, and to thy question, 
‘Lord, wilt thou then slay also a righteous nation? . ... She 
is my sister,’ etc., the answer is, he is a prophet, and has 
learned to say so from thyself.’’ Usually, when a guest comes 
to a house, he is questioned about eating and drinking, but not 
whether the woman accompanying him is his wife or sister, (In 
his country, however, Abraham said that she is his sister only 
because he was questioned.) From all this it is to be inferred 
that a descendant of Noah is put to death because he had to 
learn and did not. | 

MISHNA /V.: Exile does not apply to a blind one. So 
says R. Jehuda. R. Meyer maintains that it does. An enemy 
is not exiled (as such a punishment does not suffice) R. 
Simeon, however, maintains: An enemy is to be put to death, 
for he is considered vicious. To which R. Simeon said: ‘‘ It 
depends upon circumstances; sometimes such is exiled, and at 
other times he is not. For this is the rule: If there is a possi- 
bility to think that he killed intentionally, exile is not sufficient; 
but if such is not the case, he is exiled.’’ 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught [Numb. xxxv. 23]: “‘ With- 
out seeing’’ means to exclude a blind one who cannot see at all. 
So R. Jehuda. R. Meyer, however, maintains that this zzcludes 
him; and their reasons are as follows [Deut. xix. 5]: ‘* Into the 
forest,’ where, as usually, also the blind go; therefore the ex- 
pression “‘ without seeing’’ excludes him. Such is the reason 
of R. Jehuda. And R. Meyer’s is: Because ‘‘ without seeing ”’ 
is an exclusion, and there being another expression ‘‘ without 
knowledge,’’ which is also an exclusion, we have two exclusions, 
and there is a rule that an exclusion after an exclusion comes to 
add something; hence it adds a blind one. R. Jehuda, how- 
ever, explained the last expression to mean the exclusion of an 
intentional murder. 

‘* An enemy ts to be put to death.’’ Why, he was not warned? 
Our Mishna is in accordance with R. Jose b. Jehuda, who says 
above (p. 13) that no such warning is needed. 

““R. Simeon said,’’ etc.: There is a Boraitha: How does R. 
Simeon illustrate his theory? If, e¢.g., the rope, to which the 
man’s instrument was attached, broke—then he is exiled; but 
if the instrument slips out of. his hand, exile is not sufficient, as 
he was the enemy of the killed, it is to be supposed that he did 


22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


it intentionally. But have we not learned in another Boraitha: 
R. Simeon said: He is not exiled ‘‘ until the entire ramming 
machine slips out of his hands’’? Hence it contradicts in both 
cases: in case the rope broke, and in case the instrument slips. 
Nay, there is no.contradiction in case of the rope; as one speaks 
of an enemy and the other of a friend. There is also no contra- 
diction in case of the slipping of the instrument; as one Bo- 
raitha is in accordance with Rabbi (who says: If such a case 
happen to a friend he is exiled), while the other is in accordance 
with the rabbis who do not agree with him.* 

MISHNA V.: Whither are they to be exiled? To the cities 
of refuge, three of which are situated on the other side of the Jor- 
dan and three in the land of Cana’an. As [Numb. xxxv. 14]: 
‘‘ Three of these cities shall ye give on this side of the Jordan, 
and the three other cities shall ye give in the land of Cana’an.”’ 
However, until the latter three were selected, those on this side 
of the Jordan have not protected as yet; as it reads [ibid., ibid. 
13]: “‘ six cities of refuge,’’ which means none of them protects 
unless all the six are selected. 

They were also obliged to prepare roads from one city to the 
other; as it reads [Deut. xix. 3]: ‘‘ Thou shalt put in order for 
thyself the (way to them), and divide into three.’’ Two scholars 
are to accompany the exile on the road to protect him, so that 
he shall not be killed by the relatives of the deceased, and they 
are to reconcile them. R. Meyer, however, said: He himself 
has to reconcile them, as it reads [ibid., ibid. 4]: “‘ And this is 


the talk + of man-slayer.’’ R. Jose b. Jehuda, however, said: 


Formerly all murderers, accidental as well as intentional, used 
to flee to the cities of refuge; the court then sends after them 
and tries them. He who was found guilty was executed, other- 
wise he was freed; and him who was to be exiled they returned 
to the city of which he was taken; as it reads [Numb. xxxv. 
25]: ‘‘ The congregation shall restore him to the city of his 
refuge.”’ 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: Three cities Moses sepa- 
rated on this side of the Jordan, and opposite them Joshua 
separated out in the land of Cana’an, and they were right oppo- 





* In text is not explained the theory of Rabbi and his opponents. Rashi, how- 
ever, explained this in one version as we did. He brought also some others in which 
he doubts, 

+ The term for talk in Hebrew is ‘‘ dbar,” literally ‘‘ talk” or ‘‘ word”; Leeser, 
however, translates it ‘‘ case,” in accordance with the sense. 





TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 23 


site: one against the other, as two rows ina vineyard.’’ Namely 
[Joshua xx. 7] ‘‘ Hebron in Judah,’’ opposite [Deut. iv. 43] 
‘* Bezer in the wilderness,’’ “‘Shechem in the mountain of 
Ephraim,’’ ‘“ Ramoth in Gil’ad,’’ ‘‘ Kedesh in Galilee in the 
mountain of Naphthali,’’ ‘‘ Golan in Bashan.’’ ‘‘ And divide 
into three’’ means there shall be the same distance from South 
Palestine to Hebron as from Hebron to Shechem; and from 
Hebron to Shechem as from the latter to Kedesh, and from 
Shechem to Kedesh as from the latter to North Palestine. Now 
let us see: three were needed on the other side of the Jordan, 
and only three for the whole land of Israel? Said Abayi: In 
Gil’ad there were many murderers, as it reads [Hosea vi. 8]: 
‘““ Gil’ad is become a city of workers of wickedness, is full of 
traces of blood.’’ What does this expression mean? Said R. 
Elazar: They were thirsty to shed blood. Why were the cities 
on both sides of the Jordan far from the boundary, and the 
middle one was near? Said Abayi: Because Shechem was also 
full of murderers; as it reads [ibid., ibid. 9]: ‘“ And troops that 
lie in wait for a man, like the band of priests, they murder on 
the way to Shechem.’’* ‘‘ Band of priests’’—what does it 
mean? Said R. Elazar: They conjoin themselves to kill as the 
priests conjoin themselves to receive the heave-offering from the 
barns. But were there not more cities of refuge? Is it not 
written [Numb. xxxv. 6]: ‘‘ And in addition to them shall ye 
give forty and two cities’’? Said Abayi: The former protect 
the refugee at any rate, whether he is aware of that city being 
a place of refuge or not; while the latter accept him only when 
he was aware. 

Was then the city of Hebron indeed a city of refuge? Does 
it not read [Judges i. 20]: ‘‘ And they gave Hebron,’’ etc. Said 
Abayi: It was only the suburb of it, as it reads [Joshua xxi. 12]: 
‘* But the fields of the city, and its villages, they gave to Caleb.’’ 
Was Kedesh one of them? Does it not read [ibid. xix. 37]: 
““ And Kedesh, and Edre’i,’’ etc.? And there is a Boraitha that 
the city of refuge must neither be too large nor too small, but 
middle-sized ones. (The cities mentioned there were, however, 
all large ones?) Said R. Joseph: ‘‘ There were two cities of the 
same name.’’ Said R. Ashi: As, for instance, Sliquus and 
Aquri of Sliquus. 

The text says: Middle ones. To this is added: They must 





* Leeser’s translation does not correspond at all. 


24 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


be situated in places where there is water, and also where there 
are markets; and if such are not found, the same must be estab- 
lished. - Also must they be situated near the army, and if the 
army was diminished, it must be added. If the dwellings in 
such cities become vacated, there must be brought new people 
composed of priests, Levites, and Israelites; and ammunition 
must not be sold in such cities, according to R. Ne’hamayi. 
The sages, however, allow this. But both agree that neither 
snares (for catching beasts) nor rope factories must there be 
established. All this is to prevent the relatives from coming to 
the cities in question. And R. Itz’hak said: This is inferred 
from | Deut. iv. 42]: “‘ And that he should flee unto one of these 
cities and live,’’ which means you shall prepare for him all the 
necessities of life. And there is a Boraitha that if a disciple is 
exiled, his master is exiled with him; because the expression 
“and live’’ means you shall supply him with the sources of 
moral life. And R. Zera said: From this we infer that one 
shall not teach a disciple of bad character. R. Johanan says: 
If it happens that the head of a college is exiled, the whole 
college is exiled with him. Is that so? Did not R. Johanan 
say that the study of the Torah relieves one; for immediately 
after the verse ‘‘ in the wilderness’’ stated above, is written 
‘““and this is the law’’? This presents no difficulty: it relieves 
only at the time he is occupied with it, but not otherwise. And 
if you wish, it may be said that it relieves from the Angel of 
Death; as it happened with R. Hisda, who was studying continu- 
ously, so that the Angel of Death could not come near him until 
he caused the cedar in the yard of the college to break, the noise of 
which stopped his studying, and the Angel of Death took hold of 
him. R.Tan’hum b. Hanilaye said: Why isthe tribe of Reuben 
mentioned first among the cities of safety? Because he wasthe 
first to save Joseph from his brothers, as it reads [Gen. xxxvii. 21]: 
“* And when Reuben heard it, he delivered him out of their hand.’’ 

R. Simlae lectured: It reads [Deut. iv. 41]: ‘‘ Then Moses 
set aside three cities on this side of the Jordan, toward the rising 
of the sun.’’ The Holy One, blessed be He, said to Moses: 
‘““ Thou hast made the sun shining toward the murderers.’’ 

R. Simaye lectured: It reads [Eccl. v. 9]: ‘‘ He that loveth 
money will never be satisfied with money; but he that loveth 
abundance, will finally have income.’’* He that loveth money 





* Leeser’s translation does not correspond at all. 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 25 


means Moses, our Master, who was aware that the three cities 
on the other side of the Jordan do not accept until the other 
three cities are selected; nevertheless he selected them, saying: 
I shall not fail to perform a meritorious act which came to my 
hand. And “he that loveth abundance ’’—who is fit to lecture 
before a crowd, he who possesses the fruits of knowledge (of 
Bible, Mishna, Halakha and Hagada). And this is what R. 
Elazar said: It reads [Psalm cvi. 2]: “‘ Who can utter the 
mighty acts of the Lord? He who can publish all his praise.’’ 
(He takes the latter not as a question, but as answer to the 
former.) The rabbis, according to others, Rabba b. Mari ex- 
plained this passage thus: He who loves the abundance of 
scholars possesses the fruit of knowledge; and the rabbis looked 
upon Rabha b. Rabba who possessed such a quality. R. Ashi 
said: He who likes to learn among acrowd of scholars possesses 
the fruit of their knowledge. And this is what R. Jose bar 
Hanina said: It reads [Jer. 1. 36]: ‘‘ The sword on the dadim 
means the sword may cut the necks of the scholars who are 
studying separately each for himself; and not only this, but they 
become also foolish and also commit acrime thereby.’’* Rabina 
said: He who loves to teach many, has the fruit of knowledge. 
And this is what Rabbi said: I learned much from my masters, 
more, however, from my colleagues, and still more from my 
disciples. | 

R Jehoshua b. Levi said: It reads [Psalm cxxii. 2]: ‘‘ Our 
feet are now standing within thy gates, O Jerusalem.’’ Who 
caused that our feet shall conquer the enemy and stand within 
the gates of Jerusalem? The same gates in which the Law was 
studied. He said again: It reads [ibid., ibid. 1]: ‘‘ 1 was re- 
joiced when they said unto me, Unto the house of the Lord let 
us go.’’ David said before the Holy One, blessed be He, Lord 
of the Universe, I have heard people say, When will this man 
die, so that Solomon, his son, shall build the Holy Temple and 
we will rejoice? And He answered [ibid. Ixxxiv. 11]: ‘‘ For bet- 
ter is a day in thy courts than a thousand.’’ I like one day in 
which thou art occupied with the Law better than the thousand 
burnt-offerings which Solomon, thy son, will sacrifice before me 
in the future. 

‘‘ To prepare roads,’’ etc. There is a Boraitha. R. Eliezer 





* The analogy of expression used in text to infer the foolishness and sin men- 


tioned, we omitted; it was also impossible to use the translations of Leeser, etc., as 
the Talmud has here its own way. 


* 26 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


b. Jacob said: ‘‘ The word ‘ refuge’ was written at every cross- 
ing for the purpose that the murderer shall recognize the way 
to take. Said R. Kahana: This is inferred from the above-cited 
verse [Deut. xix. 3], which means you shall establish all prepa- 
rations needed on this way. 

R. Hamma b. Hanina, when he wanted to lecture on this 
case, used to begin with [Psalm xxv. 8]: ‘‘ Good and upright 
is the Lord: therefore he pointeth out to sinners the right way,’’ 
saying, If He puts the sinners in the nignt way, so much the 
more the upright. 

Resh Lakish used to begin his lecture on this case with [ Ex. 
xxi. 13 and I Sam. xxiv. 14]: ‘‘ From the wicked proceedeth 
wickedness.’’ The Scripture speaks about two men each of 
whom killed a person: one of them intentionally, and the other 
unintentionally, but there were no witnesses in either of these 
cases. The Holy One, blessed be He, appoints them into one 
inn, and he who had killed intentionally is placed under a lad- 
der, while the other, who killed unintentionally, descends the 
steps, falls and kills him (the one under the ladder). Hence the 
outcome is: he who has killed intentionally was killed; and the 
unintentional killer was exiled. 

Rabba b. R. Huna in the name of his father, according to 
others the latter in the name of R. Elazar, said: From the 
Pentateuch, Prophets, and Hagiographa it is inferred that the 
way the man likes to follow, he is led upon by Heaven. From 
the Pentateuch [Numb. xxii. 12]: ‘‘ Thou shalt not go with 
them,’’ and [ibid., ibid. 20]: ‘‘ Rise up, go with them ’’; from 
the Prophets [Is. xlviii. 17]: ‘‘ Who teach thee for thy profit, 
who lead thee by the way thou shouldst go’’; and from Hagi- 
ographa [Prov. iii. 34]: “‘ If (it concern) the scornful, he will him- 
self render them a scorn; but unto the lowly doth he give 
grace.”’ 

R. Huna said: If a relative killed the murderer who had 
already been in the city of refuge, he is nevertheless free; be- 
cause he holds that the expression ‘‘ he deserveth not a judg- 
ment of death’’ [Deut. xix. 6] applies to the relative. An 
objection was raised from the following: The just-cited verse 
speaks of the murderer; but perhaps it speaks of the relative of 
the dead? For this purpose it reads [ibid., ibid. 4]: ‘‘ When he 
hath not been an enemy to him in time past.’’ Hence the verse 
in question speaks of the murderer? He (R. Huna) holds with 
the Tana of the following: The verse in question speaks of the 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 27 


relative; but perhaps of the murderer? For this it reads (4) 
‘“enemy’’; hence the verse in question necessarily concerns the 
relative. 

Another objection was raised from our Mishna which states: 
‘* Two scholars have to accompany him.’’ Was it not for the 
purpose of warning the relatives, that, in case they would attempt 
to slay, the same will be done to them? Nay, only to reconcile 
them; they should not consider him as a blood-shedder, for he 
has done it by error. And to the opinion of R. Mair that the 
murderer himself could do so, it was answered: ‘‘ Outside de- 
fence is more considered.’’ : 

R. Elazar said: A city, the majority of which are murderers, 
does not protect; as it reads [Joshua xx. 4]: ‘‘ And speak in 
the ears of the elders of that city 4zs words,’’ but not the words 
which they (the elders) had to speak for themselves some time 
ago. The same said again that a city in which there are no 
elders does.not protect. In this case, however, R. Ami and R. 
Assi differ. According to one it does, and according to the 
other it does not. The same differ concerning a stubborn and 
rebellious son, and also concerning breaking the neck of the 
heifer [Deut. xxi.], as in all the cases the elders are mentioned, 
and they are not found; however, he who holds that it does not 
matter maintains that it was written only because it is usual 
that a city should have its elders, but not to prevent if there 
are none. : 

R. Hama b. Hanina said: Why is the portion of murderers 
with a strong language [Joshua xx. 1]: “‘ And the Lord spoke 
to Joshua’’ instead of sazd; and also at the end of the verse (2), 
‘‘ 'Whereof I have sfoken’’? Because this command was the 
only one which the Lord commanded Joshua to fulfil what had 
been already written in the Pentateuch. And whence do we 
know that sfoke is stringent language? From [Gen. xlii. 30]: 
“‘ Spoke roughly.’’ However, concerning this subject R. Jehu- 
dah and the rabbis differ: according to the one it was because 
Jeshuah delayed to establish them, and according to the others 
the reason is as said above. 

It reads [ Josh. xxiv. 26]: ‘‘ And Joshua wrote these words in 
the book of the law of God.’’ R. Jehudah and R. Ne’hamiah 
differ: according to one he wrote only the eight verses, which 
begin with ‘‘ And Moses died ’’; according to the other he wrote 
the portion of the cities of refuge. And the latter explains the 
expression “‘ in the book of the law of God’’ thus: Joshua wrote 


28 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


in kts book that which had been already written in the book of 
the law of God. 

In case the Holy Scrolls were sewn with thread of flax, R. 
Jehuda and R. Meyer differ: according to the one it is valid; 
according to the other it is not. The latter’s reason-is [Ex. 
xiii. 9]: ‘‘ In order that the Law of the Lord may be in thy 
mouth,’’ we see, then, that the Law is compared to Tephilin, 
and as the Tephilin are to be sewn with thread of a calf, the 
same is the case with the Holy Scrolls. And according to the 
other it is compared only as regards the hide of such cattle 
which is allowed to the mouth, but not concerning other laws. 
Said Rabh: I have seen the Tephilin of my uncle and they were 
sewn with thread of flax. (Says the Gemara): The Halakha, 
however, does not prevail with him. 

MISHNA V7Z.: There is no difference between the high- 
priests who were anointed with the holy oil (in the first Temple) 
and those who were sanctified by the holy dress (in the second 
Temple), and even him who has temporarily substituted the 
high-priest in case of sickness—they all release the murderer by 
their death. R. Jehudah said: Even the priest who was anointed 
for the war only. Therefore the mothers of the priests used to 
support the murderers with food and clothes that they shall not 
pray death to their sons. 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? Said R. Kahana: 
From [Numb. xxxv. 25-28], where the death of the high-priest 
is mentioned three times, from which we infer the three kinds 
of priests in the Mishna. And R. Jehudah, who adds also the 
anointed for the war, infers it from verse (32), where the priest is 
mentioned the fourth time. The rabbis, however, do not care 
to add same, because the word 4zgh is not mentioned there, 
hence it means one of the above-mentioned. 

‘““ The mothers of the priests,’’ etc. They shall not pray, but 
what if they should, would it effect? -Does it not read [Prov. 
xxvi. 2]: “‘ As the bird (cometh) to flit away, as the swallow, to 
fly off: so will an undeserved curse not come (to fulfilment) ’’? 
Said a certain elder: I understood from the lecture of Rabha 
that it is counted as asin to the priest, who should pray that 
no accident might happen in that generation, and hedid not. As 
it happened with one whom a lion has consumed a distance of . 
three passas from R. Jehoshua b. Levi’s dwelling, and Elisha 
did not talk to him forthree days. Said R. Jehudah in the name 
of Rabh: Thecurse of a sage and be it for nothing, is realized; 





TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 29 


- and this we see to have been the case with Achithaphel. When 
David was digging under the altar a hole to reach the watery 
depth of the earth (-Shzthin), the water came up and menaced 
to inundate the world; whereupon David asked: Is it allowed 
to inscribe the Holy name upon a piece of broken clay and drop 
it into the water; and as no answer came from the people pres- 
ent, he exclaimed: Whoever amongst ye knows and abstains 
from answering, shall be suffocated! Then Achithaphel concluded 
a fortiori thus: If the Lord has allowed His name to be erased 
by water in order to make peace between husband and wife, so 
much the more so when the peace of the whole world is con- 
cerned. Accordingly he decided that it is allowed; David then 
following this decision dropped the bit of clay with the name on 
into the water, and the water turned back into its depths. 
Nevertheless Achithaphel choked himself [2 Sam. 17, 23]; all 
which corroborates Rabh’s saying quoted above by R. Jehudah. 

R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh said: If a sage has put 
some one under the ban conditionally, a release must take place 
at any rate by the same sage or by some other one. And this is 
inferred from the case of Judah, of whom it reads [Gen. xliii. 9]: 
“If I bring him not unto thee,’’ etc. R. Samuel b. Na’hamoni 
in the name of Jonathan said: It reads [Deut. xxxiii. 6-7]: 
*“ May Reuben live . . . this is the blessing of Judah.’’ (Why, 
then, is Judah mentioned just after Reuben and also his bless- 
ing distinguished with the expression ‘‘ and ¢hzs’’ ?) Because 
all the forty years during which Israel was in the desert, the re- 
mains of Judah were dismembered in his coffin until Moses arose 
and prayed for him, saying: Lord of the universe! Who caused 
Reuben to confess if not Judah? Hear, Lord, the voice of 
Judah!’’ Immediately, then, the members of his body were 
placed in their order. However, he was not allowed to enter 
the heavenly college until Moses prayed: ‘‘ And bring him unto 
his people.’’ Still he could not discuss with the rabbis; to this 
Moses said: ‘‘Let the power of his hand contend for him!’’ 
Still he could not answer questions; thereupon Moses said: 
““ And be thou a help to him from his adversaries.’’ 

The schoolmen propounded a question: When is the mur- 
derer released? Does the release of the murderer require the 
death of all those priests mentioned in the Mishna or the death 
of one of them suffices? Come and hear: If his decision was 
rendered at the time when a high-priest did not exist, he re- 
mains there forever. Now, if he is released by the death of one 


30 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


of them, let him be returned by the death of a substitute? 
Hence he must wait until the death of them all. However, per- 
haps the Mishna speaks of a case where there was no substitute? 

MISHNA V/77/.: If after the decision had been rendered 
the high-priest dies, he is not exiled. If, however, the priest 
dies before it was rendered and another priest was appointed 
and the decision was then rendered, he returns on the death of 
the second one. If, however, his decision was rendered while 
a high-priest did not exist, or he was to be exiled, because he 
killed a high-priest, or a high-priest who himself killed acciden- 
tally, he never returns from his exile. 

The murderer is never to go out from his place of exile even 
if he was a witness to a meritorious or to a civil, or even toa 
criminal case. And even if Israel needs him and should he be 
a captain in -Israel, like Johab b. Zeruiah, he must not go out 
all his life; as it reads [ibid., ibid. 25]: ‘* To the city of his ref- 
uge, whither he had fled,’’ which means there shall be his dwell- 
ing, there shall be his death, there his burial. 

As the city itself protects, so does its limit; therefore, if it 
happens that a murderer goes outside of the limit and the rela- 
tives of the deceased meet him, according to R. Jose, the Gali- 
lean, it is a meritorious act for the relatives to kill him; and if 
a stranger kills him he is not responsible. R. Agiba, however, 
maintains that a relative is not responsible, but it is not meri- 
torious; while a stranger is responsible for his death. 

GEMARA: What is the reason of the first statement in the 
Mishna? Said Abayi: This is to be drawn by a@ fortiorz reason- 
ing: he who was already exiled is released, so much the more: 
ishe whois only sentenced toit. But perhaps he who was already 
in exile is atoned, but not he who was not there as yet? Does, 
then, the exile atone? The death of the high-priest atones. 

‘“ Dies before it was rendered,’’ etc. Whence is this deduced? 
Said R. Kahana: From [Numb. xxxv. 25]: “‘ And he shall abide 
in it until the death of the high-priest, who hath been anointed 
with the holy oil.’’, Who has anointed him? Certainly not the 
murderer! It, therefore, means: He who was anointed in his 
days. But what has the high-priest done that the murderer’s 
fate should depend upon his death? He ought to have prayed 
that the decision of the court be in behalf of the defendant, 
which he did not. 

Abayi said: We have a tradition that if after the decision 
was rendered the defendant dies, his remains must be carried to 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 31 


the city of refuge; as it reads [ibid., ibid. 32]: ‘‘ That he should 
come again to dwell in the earth* until the death of the priest.’’ 
Dwelling in the earth means the grave. There is a Boraitha: If 
he dies in the city of refuge before the death of the high-priest, 
his remains may be carried to his native place; as it reads [ibid., 
ibid. 28]: ‘‘ The manslayer may return unto the earth of his 
possession.’’ What is meant by “‘ the earth of his possession ’’ ? 
The grave. In the case when after the decision had been 
rendered, the high-priest was found unfit for his dignity, e.g., 
he was the son of a married, or of one who performed the cere- 
mony of Halitzah, R. Ami and R. Itz’hak of Nafha differ: one 
holds that the priesthood is dead, and it is equivalent to the - 
death of the high-priest; while the other holds that it is abol- 
ished, hence he was never a priest and the decision against the 
murderer was rendered when a high-priest did not exist; accord- 
ingly, he must remain there forever. 

‘“‘ And a high-priest did not exist,’’ etc. R. Jehudah said in 
the name of Rabh: It reads [ I Kings ii. 28]: ‘‘ And Joab fled 
unto the tabernacle.’’ Joab erred twice in so acting: (a) he 
thought that the horns of the altar protect, while the roof of the 
Temple protects; and (0) he thought that the altar of the taber- 
nacle of Shila protects; in reality, however, the altar of the 
Temple, only, protects. Said Abayi: He erred also in this: he 
thought that it protects every one, while in reality it protects 
only a priest on duty, which was not the case with him. 

Resh Lakish said: It reads [Isaiah Ixiii. 1]: ‘‘ Who is this 
that cometh from Edom, dyed red in his garments from Boz- 
rah?’’ The heavenly ruler of Rome will err thrice in the future. 
(a) He will think Bozrah protects, while only Bezer does so; 
(6) that it protects even an intentional criminal, while it does so 
only an unintentional; and (c) it protects only a man, but not 
an angel as he was. 

R. Abuhu said: The cities of refuge are not given for ceme- 
teries, as it reads [Numb. xxxv. 3]: “‘ And their open spaces 
shall be for their cattle, and for their goods, and for all their 
requirements,’ z.¢., requirements for life, but not for death; 
and the statement above that.the murderer must be buried in 
the city is no objection, as concerning him the Scripture dictates 
a separate law. 





* The term in Hebrew is ereéz, literally earth, Leeser translates /and in accord. 
ance with the sense. 


32 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘* So does tts limit.’’ There is a contradiction from the fol- 
lowing: It reads [ibid., ibid. 25]: ‘‘ And he shall abide in it,”’ 
but not in its limit? Said Abayi: This presents no difficulty: 
concerning protection it does, but to dwell he is not allowed. 

‘* Outside of the limit.’’ The rabbis taught: It reads |ibid., 
ibid. 27]: ‘‘ And the avenger of the blood should kill the man- 
slayer: he shall not be guilty of blood.’’ It is a meritorious act 
of the avenger to do so; and every stranger may do so if there 
is no relative. Such is the decree of R. Jose the Galilean. R. 
Aqiba, however, maintains that if the relative likes to do so, he 
may; but it is not meritorious. A stranger, however, if he did 
. $0, is guilty. The reason of the former is: it does not read 
‘* 7f he will kill him; and the reason of the latter is: it does not 
read ‘‘ he sha// kill him.’’ Mar Zutra b. Tubiah in the name of 
Rabh, however, said that if the relative has killed him while he 
was out of the limit, he is to be killed if he did it intentionally. 


But this is not in accordance with R. Jose, nor with R. Agiba. © 


In accord with whom, then, is his theory? With the Tana 
of the following Boraitha: R. Eliezer said [ibid., ibid. 12]: 
‘“ Until he have stood before the congregation for trial.’’ To 
what purpose is this written (is it not self-evident that he is not 
to be executed without a trial)? Because (27) reads ** should 
kill . . . not guilty of blood’’; lest one say that so it is even 
if the avenger had killed him before he was tried and found 
guilty, therefore it reads “‘ until he have stood . . . for trial.’’ 
R. Jose and R. Agiba, however, infer from the just-cited pas- 
sage that if the Sanhedrin themselves have seen one killing a 
man, they must not execute him unless he has been tried before 
another court and found guilty. 

The rabbis taught: It reads (26): “‘ Should at any time pass 
the boundary,’’ etc., which means intentionally, but whence do 
we know as to if he pass unintentionally? Therefore, “‘ at any 
time,’’ which would be superfluous if not signifying this case. 
But is there not a Boraitha to the effect that if one has killed 
intentionally he is put to death, etc.? This presents no diffi- 


culty: the Boraitha cited is in accordance with him who holds | 


that the Scripture speaks in accordance with human language, 
while the rabbis do not hold so. Said Abayi: It seems to me 
that he who holds that the Scripture speaks in accordance with 
human language is correct in this case, because his final case 
should not be more rigorous than the beginning. In the begin- 
ning if he had killed a man intentionally he is put to death, and 


A a ee ee 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). es 


if unintentionally he is exiled; and the same is to be his final 
case: if he goes out of the limit intentionally, he is killed; but 
if unintentionally, he must be returned to his exile. 

If a father has killed a son unintentionally, his other son 
may be considered the avenger in accordance with one Boraitha; 
another Boraitha, however, states that he must not be so consid- 
ered. Shall we assume that one is in accordance with R. Jose 
and the other with R. Agiba? Howcan such be borne in mind? 
Is it not decided (Sanhedrin, p. 246) that a son must not be ap- 
pointed by the court to punish his father with whatsoever pun- 
ishment, etc.? Therefore, we must say that one Boraitha speaks 
of his son, and the other of his grandson. : 

MISHNA V/Z/Z.: A tree placed in the limit, but its branches 
extending outside of it or vice versa, in any case the inclination 
of the branch must be considered. 

GEMARA: There is a Contradiction from the following: A 
tree which stands inside but is inclined outside, or wice versa if 
from opposite the surrounding wall and inside, it is considered 
as inside; and if the same were inclined outside it is considered 
as outside?* Do you contradict tithe with cities of refuge? 
_ Concerning tithe the Scripture relies upon the surrounding wall 
of the city, but concerning the cities in question it relies upon 
the dwelling, and one can use his dwelling under the branch but 
not upon the root of atree. Rabh Ashi explains the expression 
of the Mishna, ‘‘ the inclination of the branch must be consid- 
ered,’’ with a/so, z.¢e., the inclination must also be considered, 
and so much the more the root of it. 

MISHNA LX.: If one killed accidentally in the city of ref- 
uge, he is to be exiled from one neighborhood to another; and 
if such happen to a Levite, he is to be exiled from one city to 
another. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: It reads [Ex. xxi. 13]: 
*“ Will I appoint thee a place,’’ etc., z.¢e., while thou art still 
alive. “* Whither he shall flee’’ signifies that if such happen 
while Israel was still in the desert, they were exiled. And 
where to?—to the camp of the Levites. From this it was said 
that if it happen to a Levi that he killed, he is exiled from one 
district to another; and even if he was exiled to the district in 
which he resides, it protects him. And R. A’ha b. R. Aika said: 





* This Mishna is concerning the second tithe which must be eaten inside of 
Jerusalem only. 


3 


34 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


This may be inferred from [Numb. xxxv. 28]: “‘ Because in the 
city of his refuge shall he remain,’’ z.e., ‘‘ his refuge’’ means 
which was his before he was exiled. 

MISHNA X.: Similarly, if a murderer was exiled to the city 
of refuge and the townsmen like to honor him, he has to say to 
them: ‘‘ I ama murderer’’; and if they say it does not matter, 
he may accept. The exiled have to pay to the Levites rent for 
their dwellings. So R. Jehudah. R. Mair, however, said: 
They have not. If, after the high-priest’s death, he returns to 
his city, he is returned to that office which he occupied before 
(e.g., head of a college), according to R. Mair. R. Jehudah, 
however, maintains: He must not occupy the same. 

GEMARA: Said R. Kahana: The Tanaim of the Mishna 
differ concerning the rent in the six cities in question only, for 
one explains the expression “‘ unto you’’ to mean for protection 
only, and the other one explains it ‘‘ unto all your necessities.’’ 
However, on the addition of 42 cities all agree that they have 
to pay rent. Said Rabha to him: There cannot be any doubt 
in the explanation of ‘‘ unto you,’’ which certainly means to all 
your necessities, and therefore it is the contrary: they differ 
concerning the 42 cities; the one holds they were added only 
for protection, and the other holds they were added on equal 
terms with the six; but concerning the six themselves all agree 
that there was no rent. 

‘“* He returns to his office.’’ The rabbis taught: It reads 
(Lev. xxv. 41]: “‘ And he shall return unto his own family, and 
unto the possessions of his father shall he return,”’ z.¢., he may 


return only to his family, but not to the office which his parents 


occupied. So R. Jehudah. R. Mair, however, said he may 
return to the offices of his parents, and the same is the case with 
exile. And this is inferred from the pleonastic words, “‘ shall 
he return.’’ What does it mean, “‘ the same is with exile’’? 
As the following Boraitha: The murderer shall return to the 
land of his possession, z.e., he may return only to the land, but 
not to the office of his parents. So R. Jehuda. R. Mair, 
however, maintains: He may also occupy the place of his 
parents, because of the analogy of expression ‘‘ return,’’ which 
is mentioned in both places, Ex. xxi. aud Numb. xxv. 


= ae 


ee ee 








CHAPTER (III. 


WHO IS SUBJECT TO THE PUNISHMENT BY STRIPES.—THE DETAILS 
OF THE PROCEDURE REGARDING THE EXECUTION THEREOF, — 
WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES FREE THE CULPRIT THEREFROM.—THE 
RESPECTIVE DUTIES OF THE THREE JUDGES WHO MUST WITNESS 
THE EXECUTION, 


MISHNA /.: To the following stripes apply: He who had 
intercourse with his own sister, with his sister of his father or 
his mother, or the sister of his wife, with the wife of his brother 
or his father’s brother, or with a woman while menstruating. 
(To each of these crimes Korath—shortened life—applies, and 
according to this Mishna the human court has a right to punish 
them also with stripes.) The same is the case if a high-priest 
marries a widow; a common priest—a divorced or her who per- 
formed the ceremony of Halitzah; an Israelite—a bastard ora 
descendant of the Gibeonites; and the same is, if a daughter of 
an Israelite marries the just-mentioned persons. If a high-priest 
marries a widow who was previously divorced, he is to be beaten 
twice, because of two names (‘‘ widow’’ and “‘ divorced ’’); if, 
however, a common priest marries a widow who has previously 
performed the ceremony of Halitzah, he is liable only for the 
violation of one negative. A high-priest who was unclean and 
partook of things belonging to the sanctuary or entered the sanc- 
tuary while unclean; and he who consumed illegal fat, blood, or 
meat left overnight from the sacrifice, or pzggu/,* or unclean 
meat, and also of such which was slaughtered and brought out- 
side of the Temple; he who ate leaven on Passover, ate or labored 
on the Day of Atonement; who compounded oil similar to that 
of the Temple, or compounded the frankincense of the Temple, 
or anointed himself with the oil used in the Temple; who ate 
carcasses or animals preyed by beasts, or reptiles—to all of them 
stripes apply. 

It applies also to him who partook of mixture, of first tithe 





* J, ¢., meat of a sacrifice illegally slaughtered. 
35 


36 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


of which the heave-offering was not separated as yet, of second 
tithe and eatables belonging to the sanctuary which were not 
redeemed yet. How much has one to partake of the mixture 
to make him liable? According to R. Simeon, whatsoever; 
while to the rabbis, not less than the size of an olive. Said R. 
Simeon to the sages: Do you not admit that if one consumed 
an ant—minute as it is—he is culpable? And he was answered: 
Because it is a creature in itself. Rejoined he: One grain of 
wheat is also complete as to its creation. 

GEMARA: The Mishna treats of those crimes to which 
Korath applies, but not of those under the category of capital 
punishment. Hence it is in accordance with R. Agiba of the 
following Boraitha: Crimes under the category of Korath, as 
well as under that of capital punishment, are also punished with 
stripes if they were so warned. So R. Ismael. R. Agiba, 
however, maintains: Only that of Korath; because if they re- 
pent after the punishment with stripes, the heavenly court for- 
gives them; but if they are under capital punishment the human 
court cannot forgive them even though they repent.* What is 
the reason of Ismael’s theory? [Deut. xxviii. 59]: ‘‘ Then will 
the Lord render peculiar thy plagues,’’ etc. ‘What the peculi- 
arity is, is not stated; however, from [ibid. xxv. 2]: ‘‘ The 
judge shall cause him to lie down”’ (the expression of which has 
a similarity), we understand that the peculiarity is stripes; and 
in [ibid. xxviii. 58] it reads: ‘‘ If thou wilt not observe,’’ etc. ; 
hence the violation of all negative commands is punished by 
stripes. But if so, let them apply also to the violation trans- 


gression of a positive commandment? It reads: ‘‘ If thou wilt — 


>? 


not observe.’’ R. Agiba’s reason is: concerning stripes the ex- 
pression is ‘‘ according to the degree of his fau/t,’’ which means 
for one fault, but not for two faults, to which capital punish- 
ment applies.+ 

“* Things belonging to the sanctuary,’’ etc. It is correct, the 
transgression of entering the sanctuary of which the punishment 
as well as the warning is stated—viz.: the punishment [Numb. 
xix. 13]: ‘‘ Hath defiled the tabernacle of the Lord; and that 
soul shall be cut off from Israel,’’ and the warning [ibid. v. 3]: 


ads 





* The text contains also what Itz’hak said, repeated from Kherithoth,—the 
proper place. 

+ The text contains a long discussion about this subject, which is repeated in 
many places of the Talmud; here, however, this is very complicated and not ime 
portant, and therefore omitted. 


ee ee en Oe ee 











TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 37 


‘‘That they defile not their camp’’; but concerning eating 
sanctity, we find the punishment [Lev. vii. 20]: ‘‘ The flesh 

. his uncleanness upon him... shall be cut off.’’ But 
where is the warning to it? According to Resh Lakish from 
[ibid. xii. 4]: ‘‘ Any thing hallowed shall she not touch’’; and 
R. Jehanan said: Bardelah taught: From an analogy of expres- 
sion ‘‘ his uncleanness’’ here, and the same expression is found 
in the above quotation [Numb. xix.]. As there the punish- 
ment and the warning are stated, the same also applies to this 
case. 

There is a Boraitha in accordance with Resh Lakish: ‘‘ Hal- 
lowed shall she not touch’’ is a warning to the consumer. You 
say consumer, but perhaps it means literally (touching); there- 
fore it reads further on, “‘into the sanctuary shall she not 
come,’’ etc. Hence hallowed is compared to the sanctuary. 
As to the transgression of the sanctuary Korath applies, so also 
the warning concerning the hallowed must speak of a similar 
punishment (z.e., consuming). But not of touching, to which 
Korath does not ae 

Rabba b. b. Hanna in the name of R. Jehanan said: To a 
negative command which is preceded by a positive one, stripes 
apply. There were people who questioned R. Johanan whether 
he said so, and he answered: Nay! Said Rabba: I swear that 
he said so, and it is also written and taught; ‘“‘ written ’’ [Numb. 
v. 3]: ‘‘ Shall ye send out... that they defile not their 
camps’; and ‘‘ taught’’ in our Mishna: A defiled person who 
enters the sanctuary gets stripes. But why did R. Johanan 
retract his previous statement? Because the case of a seducer 
was difficult to him—namely, a seducer who had divorced his 
seduced wife, if-he is a common Israelite, remarries her, but 
is not punished with stripes; if he, however, was a priest (who 
is forbidden to marry a divorced woman), he gets stripes and 
does not remarry. Now, as in this case, the negative command: 
*“ That he must not divorce her all his life’’ is succeeded by the 
positive command: ‘‘ That he shall marry her,’’ why, then, 
should not a common Israelite be punished with stripes for 
divorcing her? Said Rabha: The reason why he does not get 
stripes is that the positive ‘‘ He shall remarry her’’ rests upon 
him all his life. (This is inferred from the words “ all his days,’’ 
which, if they were not explained that in case he has divorced 
her he shall remarry her, would be superfluous; with the expla- 
nation, however, the command, ‘‘ He shall remarry her,’’ is 


38 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


attached to the negative ‘‘ He shall not divorce her’’; and there 
is arule that to a negative command which is succeeded by a 
positive, no stripes apply.) And when Rabbin came from Pal- 
estine he said the same in the name of R. Johanan. Said Rabh 
Papa to Rabha: Why did R. Jehanan say above that he gets 
stripes? The negative in question is not similar to the negative 
of “‘ muzzling’’ (which was said that it is placed there to teach 
that only to such which is not succeeded by a positive stripes 
apply)? Rejoined Rabh Papa: Should the negative become 
weaker because of the succeeding positive? Answered Rabha: 
According to your theory stripes should apply to each negative 
which is succeeded by a positive, which is not the case. Said 
Rabh Papa again: There it is different, as the positive usually 
comes to remove the negative (z.e., one shall ot do so, but if 
he did, ska// he do so and so). But Rabha’s explanation holds 
good only according to him who holds that the culprit does not 
get stripes unless he abolishes the succeeding positive command. 
(/.e., the seducer who has divorced his wife may always say: “‘ I 
will remarry her.’’ Hence the positive is not abolished, and 
therefore he is not liable. But according to him who holds that 
only then is he free from stripes when he fulfils the command 
(z.e., if he comes to the court, which commands him to marry 
her immediately, and if he does not listen he gets stripes). 
Hence, you cannot say that this positive rests upon all his life, 
and consequently it does not modify its preceding negative? 
Let us see: this objection applies only to Johanan’s foregoing 
theory, and he said to the disciple who has repeated before the 
Boraitha concerning a positive which succeeds a negative: “‘ Go 
and teach thus: Only when he has abolished the succeeding ~ 
one, but not otherwise.’’ R. Simeon b. Lakish, however, dif- 
fers, and says: He is free from stripes only when he has fulfilled 
the succeeding one. 

What is their point of difference? A doubtful warning— 
é.g., in the case in question, if he was warned that he shall not 
divorce her, it was still doubtful whether after divorcing he will 
not remarry her; hence such a warning is not considered cer- 
tain. But, nevertheless, according to R. Johanan it suffices, so 
that he may be punished; but according to Resh Lakish he is 
not. And both differ in the explanation of R. Jehudah’s theory 
in the following Boraitha: It reads [Ex. xii. 10]: “‘ And ye shall 
not let anything of it remain until morning; and that which 
remaineth of it until morning ye shall burn.’’ We see, then, 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 39 


that the verse comes to place a positive after a negative for the 
purpose that if one did leave he shall not be punished, and has 
only to burnit. Suchisthe decree of R. Jehudah. R. Johanan 
explains R. Jehudah’s words thus: The reason why he does not 
get stripes is the succeeding positive, but if it were not he would 
be punished, although the warning was doubtful, as he could 
thereafter burn it. Resh Lakish, however, explains it thus: 
The reason why he does not get stripes is the succeeding, but if 
it were not he would get stripes, as to a negative command that 
does not contain manual labor, stripes do apply. But let us 
see: Resh Lakish cannot deny that such a warning was a doubt- 
ful one, and R. Johanan cannot deny that such a negative does 
not concern manual labor; what, then, is the use of their expla- 
nation? Both agree that, if not for the succeeding, stripes would 
apply; notwithstanding that there were both’a doubtful warn- 
ing and a positive of no manual labor. Resh Lakish shares the 
opinion of R. Jehudah of another Boraitha (Chulin 82, b.), in 
which R. Jehudah admits that a doubtful warning is not consid- 
ered; and R. Johanan holds with R. Jehudah of the following: 
R. Idi b. Abin in the name of R. Amram and R. Itz’hak, quot- 
ing R. Johanan, said: R. Jehudah in the name of R. Jose the 
Galilean declared that for the violation of all the negatives of 
the Torah, if there be manual labor implied, the transgressor is 
punished with stripes, but not if mental, except in the cases of 
an oath, exchanging,* and cursing his neighbor by the Holy 
name. But if so, then, R. Johudah contradicts himself? Resh 
Lakish may say that there are two Tanaim who said in the name 
of R. Jehudah differently, and R. Jehanan may say that in the 
latter Boraitha R. Jehudah declared the theory of his master, 
but his own opinion he declared in the former Boraitha. 

There is a Mishna: He who took the mother-bird with her 
children gets, according to R. Jehudah, stripes, but is not 
obliged to send away the mother-bird; and according to the 
sages, he sends away, but is not punished with stripes; as the 
rule is: for a negative which is conjoined with a positive there 
is no liability. Said R. Johanan: There is only one more case 
similar to this. And to the question of R. Elazar, What is it? 
he rejoined: Go and find out! He did so and found the follow- 
ing: ‘‘ If a seducer has divorced,’’ etc., v. above, p. 37. But this 
can be correct only with him who holds that he is released from 





* Lev. xxvii., 10. 


40 | THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


stripes after the fulfilment of the positive only. But according 
to him who holds that stripes do not apply unless the positive 
is abolished, such can be done only with the former mother-bird 
by killing her, as then the positive he “‘ shall send her away ”’ is 
abolished. But how can such be found in the case of the divorce 
in question; and should you say that he killed her, then he de- 
serves capital punishment; and there is a rule that stripes do 
not apply to him who is to be executed? Said R. Simi of ’Huz- 
nah: ‘‘ &.g., he accepted betrothal money for her from some one 
else, hence she becomes the wife of another, and the positive 
‘“he shall remarry ’’ is abolished. Said Rabh: Such cannot be 
considered; as in. case she made him her messenger to accept 
the above, she may ignore the message; and, if hedid it without 
asking her who gave him the right to such that it should be con- 
sidered? Therefore said R. Simi of Nehardea: If, ¢.g., he has 
made a vow publicly that he must not derive any benefit from 
her (and such a vow cannot be absolved), hence the positive is 
abolished and he is liable. Are there indeed no more similar 
cases to those by R. Johanan stated? Is there not robbery to 
which it reads, ‘‘ Thou shalt not steal,’’ and the positive “‘ He 
shall return it,’’ and also concerning a pledge to which the 
negative is, “‘ Thou shalt not come to pledge,’’ and the positive 
is ‘““ Thou shalt return the pledge at sunset’’? And these two 
cases also can be explained in both ways: Fulfilled the positives 
or not, abolished the positives or not? With these cases it is 
different, for he has to pay, and there is a rule: He who pays 
does not get stripes. But is there not ‘‘ Peah,’’ the negative of 
which “‘ thou shalt not cut . . . the corners’’ and the positive 
‘unto the poor... leave’’ [Lev. xxiii. 22], which also may 
be explained in both ways as said above? Therefore we must 
say that R. Jehanan by his statement, There is only one similar 
case, meant “‘ Peah’’ and not a seducer; since concerning the 
latter the Law dictates that even if there were a vow on the 
mind of the public * it can be absolved when such absolution is 
necessary to a meritorious act; as it happened with a children- 
teacher who struck too much the children and R. A’ha excom- 
municated him, Rabbina, however, returned him, because he 
could not find as good a teacher. 

‘‘ Carcasses preyed,’’ etc. Said R. A’ha:. He who neglects 
nature’s duties when called, transgresses the negative “‘ ye shall 





* This will be explained in Tract Gittin. 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 41 


not make your souls abominable ’’ [Lev. xx. 25]. And R. Bibi 
b. Abayi said: He who drinks water from the horn of a barber 
transgresses the same. 

“ Partook of mixture, first tithe,’’ etc. R. Bibi in the name 
of Resh Lakish said: They differ only in case he take a grain 
of it, but as regards flour all agree that the size of an olive is 
needed. R. Jeremei in the name of same authority, however, 
said: As they differ in respect of wheat so they do in that of 
flour too. An objection was raised from our Mishna. R. 
Simeon said to them: Do you not agree if he ate an ant, etc., 
and to the answer of the rabbis “‘ because it is a creature’’ he 
rejoined, A wheat grain is also complete in its creation, hence 
we see that they only differ in respect of the grain, but not in 
that of flour? R. Simeon meant to say thus: According to my 
opinion it is the same with flour, but to your theory, admit that 
if he ate a grain of it he shall be culpable, because of its com- 
pleteness. The rabbis, however, maintain: We cannot compare 
a grain to a living creature. There is a Boraitha in accordance 
with R. Jeremei: R. Simeon said concerning stripes: Size does 
not count; it counts only concerning sacrifices. 

MISHNA //.: Stripes also apply to the following: To him 
who partook of the first fruit before the ceremony of reading * 
was performed; of the sacrifices under the category of the most 
holy outside of the curtains, and of those under the category 
of a minor grade or of second tithe outside of the surrounding 
wall; and also to him who breaks a bone in the Paschal Lamb 
if it was a clean one. However, if he left from a fit one, or 
broke a bone of an unfit one, stripes do not apply. 

To him who takes a mother-bird with her children from 
her coop according to R. Jehudah stripes apply, but he is 
not obliged to send the mother away, and according to the 
sages he must send her away and stripes do not apply, ac- 
cording to the rule: If a positive succeeds a negative, no stripes 
apply. 

GEMARA: Said Rabba b. b. Hana in the name of R. Jo- 
hanan: Our Mishna is in accordance with R. Agqiba, whose 
name is omitted, as it is one of the many anonymous Mishna- 
yoth which bear his opinion without mentioning his name. The 
sages, however, maintain that concerning first fruits, their placing 
on the Temple is the main thing, but the ceremony of reading 





* Deut. xxv, I5. 


42 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


is no obstacle. But why not say that it is in accordance with 
R. Simeon, to whose opinion, also, most of the Mishnayoth 
were composed anonymously? This comes to teach that R. 
Agiba is in this respect in accordance with R. Simeon. Which 
R. Simeon? Of the following Boraitha: It reads [Deut. xii. 
17|: ‘‘ And the heave-offering of thy hand,’’ which means the 
first fruits; said R. Simeon: What does this come to teach us? 
If only that they must not be eaten outside the surrounding 
wall, it was not necessary at all, as this could be inferred from 
tithe, regarding which the law is more lenient, by drawing a /for- 
tiort conclusion: If one consumes tithe regarding which the law 
is lenient, outside of the wall, he gets stripes, so much the more 
when he consumes first fruits, concerning which case the law is 
more rigorous; therefore we must say that the verse means to 
include him who had consumed them before the ceremony of 
reading was performed. And ‘‘ thy freewill-offering’’ [ibid., 
ibid.], means thanks and peace-offerings. R. Simeon, however, 
said: The verse does not mean them, as it was not necessary to 
teach that they must not consume outside of the wall, for the 
same reason that they could be inferred from the leniency in 
tithe by the same a@ fortiori reasoning. Therefore it means 
him who consumed of same sacrifices before their blood was 
sprinkled. And“ first born’’ means literally. Said R. Simeon: 
If it meant so, it was not necessary either, as this could likewise 
be inferred by @ fortiorz reasoning from tithe; and if it means: 
who commanded them before blood-sprinkling, it was also not 
necessary, as it could be inferred from the above-mentioned 
sacrifices by a fortzort reasoning, as they are more lenient than 
the first born. Therefore we must say that it means to include 
him who consumes a first born even after its blood was sprinkled. 
‘“Thy herds or of thy flocks’’ means sin and transgression- 
offerings. R. Simeon, however, said: That if it meant them, it 
would not be necessary, as they could be inferred by @ fortiori 
reasoning from tithe; thanks and peace-offerings, and first born, 
all of which are more lenient than that of sin and transgression. 
Therefore it means to include him who consumed from the lat- 
ter even after sprinking outside of the curtain. “‘ Nor any of 
thy vows’’ means burnt-offerings. Said R. Simeon: It would 
not be necessary, as they could be inferred by a fortior7 reason- 
ing from all those cases mentioned above, and therefore it means 
to include him who consumes from a burnt-offering after sprink- 
ling even inside the curtains, that he get stripes. Said Rabha: 


IE er te a 


= a 











TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 43 


Every mother should bear a son like R. Simeon; although his 


theory can be objected to.* 
It was taught: R. Gidel in the name of Rabh said: A 


stranger who had consumed sin- and transgression-offerings be- 
fore their blood was sprinkled, is free from any punishment, 
because it reads [Ex. xxix. 33]: ‘‘ And they shall eat those 
things wherewith the atonement was made to consecrate them, 
and to sanctify them; but a stranger shall not eat thereof, be- 
cause they are holy.’’ Now as the sprinkling of blood only 
atones, they can be considered holy only after the sprinkling 
was performed, but before this act they are not considered as 
yet holy; so that the negative “‘ one shall not eat because they 
are holy’ does not rest upon the consumer. 

R. Elazar said in the name of Hosea: Concerning the first 
fruit, placing it in the Temple is the main thing, and not the 
ceremony of reading, as it is not considered the final act. In 
this case the following Tanaim differ [Deut. xxvi. 10]: ‘* Thou 
shalt set it down before the Lord,’’ z.e., lift it up (before the 
Lord in all four directions). But perhaps it means literally, to 
place it? This is already written in verse (9). So R. Jehudah. 
R. Eliezer b. Jacob, however, maintains: This means literally 
(hence, this is the main act which completes the ceremony pre- 
scribed to first fruit); lifting up, however, he infers from [ibid., 
ibid. 4]: ‘‘ And the priest shall take the basket out of thy hand,’’ 
z.e., that the priest shall lift it up towards all four directions. His 
reason is based on the analogy of expression ‘‘ hand,’’ which is 
also mentioned concerning peace-offering [Lev. vii. 30]: “‘ His 
own hands shall bring it.’’ And as there lifting up is needed by 
both the ripest and the owner of the offering, so also here the 
hands of both are needed. Howso? The priest places his hand 
under those of the owner, and the two lift it up together. 

Rabha b. Ada in the name of R. Itz’hak said: One is culpa- 
ble for the first fruits immediately after they have seen the face 
of the Temple; and it is in accordance with the Tana of the 
following Boraitha: R. Eliezer said: Of the first fruit, a part of 
which was outside and a part inside, that of outside is consid- 
ered common in all respects, while that of inside is considered 
holy in all respects. And R. Shesheth said: Only the placing 
is the main act of the ceremony and not the reading. 





* The text argues as to how the theory can be objected to by a very complicated 
process of reasoning, and from things entirely irrelevant to the subject, and therefore 
omitted. 


44 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


““ Most holy,’’ etc. But why the repetition? It has been 
already stated with regard to second tithe and things of the 
sanctuary which were not as yet redeemed? Said R. Jose b. 
Hanina: The second part of the Mishna treats of a case when 
both were pure—and the man and the second tithes which were 
consumed outside of the wall, and the first part speaks of the 
case when both were defiled, and that he consumed them within 
the city. And whence do we know that one is culpable because 
of defilement? From the following Boraitha: R. Simeon said 
[| Deut. xxvi. 14]: ‘* Neither have I removed thereof while un- 
clean,’’* means neither when I was unclean and they were 
clean, nor vice versa. R. Eliezer said: Whence do we know 
that second tithe which became defiled may be redeemed even 
within Jerusalem! From [Deut. xiv. 24]: ‘‘ Not able to carry 
it,’’ which means also when it was not fit for eating, as the ex- 
pression for carrying is “‘ sheath’’ and in [Gen. xliii. 34], a sim- 
ilar expression is used for eatables. R. Bibbi in the name of 
R. Assi said: From the just-cited verse is to be also inferred 
that even one step outside the wall one may redeem the second 
tithe, if it is too heavy for him to carry it further. R. Hanina 
and R. Hosea, while sitting together propounded the following 
question: How is it if he was already within the gate of the wall 
in such a position that he was already inside but his load was 
outside—may he redeem it at that place or not? A certain old 
man then taught them in the name of R. Simeon b. Jo’hai: It 
reads | Deut. xiv. 24]: ‘* Is too far from ¢hee,’’ means from the full 
extent of your capacity (and as he is already within the gate it can- 
not be considered far any longer, etc., and is not to be redeemed). 
R. Assi said in the name of R. Jehanan: The culpability for 
second tithe arises only after it has seen the face of the wall of 
Jerusalem, and the reason is [ibid. xii. 12]: “‘ But before the 
Lord thy God must thou eat them,’’ and (17): ‘‘ Thou mayest 
not eat within thy gates’’; hence, only at that time when the 
positive “‘ before thy Lord must thou eat them ”’ can be fulfilled, 
the negative: ‘“ Thou mayest not eat,’’ etc., applies, but not 
otherwise. : 

MISHNA J///.: He who makes a baldness in the hair of his 
head, or rounds it; he who destroys the corners of his beard, or 
makes incisions in his flesh for his dead, is liable. There is no 
difference whether he made one incision for five dead bodies or 





* Leeser’s translation does not correspond. 








TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 45 


five incisions for one dead body, as in either case he is liable for 
five negatives. For rounding his hair he is also liable for two (one 
for one corner on one side, and another for the other corner on 
the other side; and for his beard five, for there are five corners.* 
R. Eliezer, however, maintains that if he took off the whole 
beard at one time he is culpable only for one. The culpability 
arises only, then, when he took it off with a razor. R. Eliezer, 
however, maintains that the same is the case if he took it off 
with snuffers or a scraper (an instrument with which the hairs 
are removed singly). ee 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught .[Lev. xxi. 5]: “‘ They shall 
not make any baldness,’’ lest one say that if one made several 
baldnesses in his head he is culpable only for one, therefore it 
reads, ‘‘ any baldness’’ (z.¢., culpable for each one). And to 
what purpose is it written ‘‘ upon their head ’’? Because [ Deut. 
xiv. 1]: ‘‘ Ye shall not cut yourselves, nor make any baldness 
between your eyes for the dead.’’ Lest one say that he is cul- 
pable only when he did so between the eyes, therefore “' their 
head ’’ to include any place of the head. From here, however, 
we know that priests only are forbidden to do so, as they are 
subject to many commands which do not apply to a common 
Israelite; whence do we know that the same is the case with 
the latter? From the analogy of expression ‘* baldness’’ in 
both verses; as in the first he is culpable for each baldness in 
the head as for that between the eyes, the same is the case with 
an Israelite. And as in [Deut. xiv.] it says plainly “‘ for the 
dead,’’ so also in [Lev.] it means for the dead only. 

What should be the size of the bald spot which would make 
him culpable? The size of a bean according to R. Jehanan in 
the name of R. Eliezer b. R. Simeon. R. Huna, however, 
said: Such a size which could be discerned. R. Jehudah b. 
’Habibah said: In this three Tanaim differ. According to one 
it is the size of a bean, according to the other it is a discernible 
size, and the third, however, maintains that he is culpable even 
for two hairs. Some, however, say: Instead of two hairs, it 
must be of the size of a lentil. 

‘“‘ He who rounds,’’ etc. The rabbis taught [Lev. xix. 27]: 
“Ve shall not cut round the corners of your head’’ means the 
end of his head, z.e., who makes his temple as hairless as the 





* For an illustration of the five corners, see Rashi, as we do not deem it neces- 
sary to illustrate them for the English reader. 


46 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


spot back of his ears to the nape of his neck. A disciple taught 
before R. Hisda: Both are culpable, he who rounds, and the 
rounded one. To which R. Hisda answered: Should he who 
eats dates from a sieve be culpable? Your Boraitha is in ac- 
cordance with R. Jehudah, who holds that to a neyative which 
does not contain manual labor, stripes apply (with whom the 
Halakha does not prevail). Rabha, however, says: It speaks 
that he himself has rounded his hair, which case all agree that 
he is culpable. And R. Ashi said: Even if he only assists the 
one who rounds his hair. 

““ And he who destroys the corners of his beard.’’ The rabbis 
taught: “‘ The’corners of his beard,’’ means the end of it; and 
what is meant by the end? The Shibboleth (sheaves). 

‘* Inctstons,’’ etc. The rabbis taught [Lev. xix. 28]: ‘‘ For 
the dead . . . any incision,’’ lest one say that he made such 
because of the fall of his house or because the ship sank, 
therefore ‘‘ for the dead,’’ to teach that he is culpable only if he 
did sofor a dead. And whencedo we know that if he made five 
incisions for one dead he is culpable for each one? From “‘ any 
incision ’’ which makes him culpable for each of them. R. Jose 
said : Whence do we know that if he made one incision for five dead 
he is culpable for five? From the expression ‘‘ 1’Nefesh ’’ * (soul) 
z.€., he is culpable for each soul. But does not the same passage 
exclude the case when he did so for ““ his house ’”’ or “‘ ship,’’ etc.? 

R. Jose holds that ‘‘ cut’’ in Deut. iv. and incision is one 
and the same, and there also reads ‘‘ for the dead,’’ hence this 
also may be inferred. 

Samuel said: If one made an incision with an instrument he 
is culpable. An objection was raised from the following: In- 
cision and cutting is one and the same (but incision means with 
the hand and cutting with an instrument), hence for an incision 
with an instrument he should not be culpable? Samuel holds 
in this respect with R. Jose that there is no difference at all. 

A disciple taught before R. Jehanan: For dead he is culpa- 
ble at all courts whether by hand or instrument, but if for an 
idol, by an instrument he is culpable, but not by hand; as it 
reads [I Kings, xviii. 28]: ‘“ And cut themselves after their 
custom with knives.’’ 

“* Culpable only for one,’’ because he holds that he. trans- 
gressed only one negative command. 


ds 





* The term ‘‘ for dead” is ‘‘l’Nefesh,” which means for a dead soul. 





TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 47 


‘‘ With a razor.’’ The rabbis taught [Lev. xxi. 5]: ‘* The 
corner of their beard shall they not shave off,’’ z.¢., with a razor. 
But lest one say even with scissors he shall be culpable, there- 
fore it reads [ibid. xix.], ‘‘ thou shalt not destroy.’’ But if so 
let him be culpable for destroying it even with snuffers or 
scrapers? therefore the expression ‘‘ shave off,’’ and destroying 
by shaving is brought about by a razor. 

‘* R. Eliezer,’’ etc. From whatever opinion he start: if he 
cares for the analogy of expression, then it is with a razor only; 
and if he does not, let him be culpable even if he did it with 
scissors? He cares for the analogy, but to his opinion snuffers 
and scrapers are equivalent to a razor. 

MISHNA /V.: The culpability for etching-in [Lev. xix. 28] 
arises only when he has done both, wrote and etched-in with 
dye or any other indelible thing, but to one of them no culpa- 
bility attaches. R. Simeon b. Jehudah in the name of R. 
Simeon said: He is not culpable unless he etched-in the holy 
name; as the above-cited verse reads, ‘‘ and any etched-in writ- 
ing shall you not fix on yourselves: I am the Lord.”’ 

GEMARA: Said R. Aha b. Rabha to R. Ashi: Does it 
mean unless he etch-in the words ‘‘I am the Lord’’? And he 
answered, Nay! It isas Bar Kaparataught: ‘* He is not culpa- 
ble unless he writes the name of an idol, as the words ‘‘ I am 
the Lord’’ mean / am the Lord, but not another one. 

R. Malkhiya in the name of R. Ada b. Ahaba said: One is 
forbidden to put ashes upon his wound in the flesh, because it 
looks like atattooing. [Said R. Papa: Throughout both Mishna 
and Boraitha, the name Malkhiya when mentioned is Malkhiyah, 
but in Halakhas it is Malkhiyoo]. R. Ashi, however, said: 
It does not matter, as the wound shows there is no tattooing. 

MISHNA V.: A Nazarite who was drinking wine the whole 
day, is culpable only for one negative. If, however, he was 
warned, Do not drink, do not drink! he is culpable for each 
time he does not listen to. The same is the case if he had de- 
filed himself by touching dead the whole day, he is culpable for 
one only; but if he was warned, You must not do so! etc., he 
is culpable for each one. The same is also the case with shav- 
ing himself. If he did so the whole day without warning he is 
culpable for one only, if with warning, for each time warned. 
A similar case this: If one was dressed with Kelaim, he is culpa- 
ble for the whole day only once; but if he was told not to dress 
himself with it, and he undresses and redresses, he is liable for 


48 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


each time. There is an instance that one may plough only one 
bed and shall be culpable for eight negatives—viz: If he ploughs 
with an ox and an ass both of which were from the sanctuary, if 
there was Kelaim in a vineyard, if that occurs in the Sabbatical 
year and on a legal holiday, and, finally, if he is a priest ora 
Nazarite in a legally unclean place. Hanania b. ’Hakhinai said: 


It can be added to that “‘ who at the same time was dressed _ 


with Kelaim.’’ And he was answered: This is not under the 
category of ploughing. Rejoined he: Does, then, a Nazarite 
belong to this category? 

GEMARA: Said R. Bibi in the name of Rabh Assi: Not 
only when he undresses and redresses himself entirely, but even 
when he put his sleeve in and out. And R. Aha b. R. Aika 
has shown that he puts in the sleeve and puts it out. But R. 
Ashi maintains that it means the time during which he could 
put in and out. | | 

‘““ Ploughing one bed,’’ etc. Said R. Yanai: At a meeting 
there was voted and resolved that he who protects Kelaim is 
liable to stripes. Said R. Jehanan to him: Is this not explained 
in our Mishna, which mentions that there was Kelaim in the 
vineyard? And if one were not culpable for protection what 
would have the ploughing to do with it? You must, then, say 
that while ploughing he protects it, and the Mishna makes him 
culpable. Rejoined R. Yanai: If I had not uncovered for you 
the broken clay pot, you would surely not have the pearl which 


was lying under it. Said Resh Lakish to R. Jehanan: Would - 


not such a great man praise your statement? I would say that 
our Mishna is in accordance with R. Aqiba, who holds that one 
is liable even for keeping it. Said Ula to R. Na’hman: After 
it was decided that protecting is the same transgression as sow- 
ing, let him also be culpable for sowing on a legal holiday? 
And he answered: It was left out by the Tana of the Mishna. 
Rejoined he (Ula): It numbers eight, consequently nothing was 
left. Said Rabha: The different kinds of labor in one article 
are considered with respect to Sabbath only, but not to holi- 
days. And Ula said: (I also think) so it is. 

MISHNA VZ/.: The number of stripes is forty less one, as it 
reads [Deut. xxv. 2, 3]: ‘‘ By a number, forty,’’ z.¢., near forty. 
R. Jehudah, however, said: Forty in full, and the fortieth is 


between his shoulders. The examination (by the physicians of © 


the court) as to the number of stripes he can receive and remain 
alive, must be such that can be equally divided by three. If 





TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 49 


the decision was that he is able to receive forty, but after re- 
ceiving a part of them they saw he cannot stand any more, he 
is free. However, if the decision was, he can stand eighteen 
only, and after he was stricken they saw he is able to receive 
more, he is nevertheless free. 

GEMARA: The reason of the statement of the Mishna is 
the expression ‘‘ number,’’ which is before the word “‘ forty,’’ 
and is to be interpreted “‘ about’’ forty; for if it meant forty in 
full, it would state forty in number. Said Rabha: How foolish 
are those who arise before the Holy Scrolls, but do not do so be- 
fore a great man. We see that in the Holy Scrolls it reads 
forty, and the rabbis came and reduced one. 

‘*R. Jehudah said,’’ etc. What is his reason? Said R. 
Itz’hak [Zech. xiii. 6]: ‘‘ What are these wounds between thy 
hands,’’ etc. The rabbis, however, maintain that this passage 
speaks of school-children. 

‘‘ After he was stricken,’’ etc. Is that so? Does not a 
Boraitha state that if the first decision of the physicians was 
that he can receive forty and thereafter they decided again that 
he can not, or the first decision was for eighteen, and the second 
states that he is able to receive forty, he is free. (Hence we see 
that even if he was not stricken but only examined, he is free.) 
Said R. Shesheth: This presents no difficulty. Our Mishna 
speaks of the decision rendered on the very same day on which 
he ought to be beaten, and by acting accordingly it was found 
that they erred; hence in the first instance he is freed because 
he cannot stand, and in the second, because he was already dis- 
graced and freed we do not care to disgrace him again. The 
Boraitha, however, speaks that the examination was several 
days before, and when the day of punishment came, the de- 
cision was changed because of his health. 

MISHNA V/ZZ.: If one commits a sin to which two nega- 
tives apply, if the decision was rendered once for both negatives, 
he is punished once only, but if for one negative, he is punished 
again after he has recovered. 

GEMARA: Is there not a Boraitha that one must not be 
appraised for two negatives? Said R. Shesheth: It presents no 
difficulty. Our Mishna speaks, if he was appraised for forty- 
one, z.e., for two negatives, and because it cannot be divided 
into three, their appraisement is annulled, and he receives only 
thirty-nine for both; and the Boraitha speaks of the case when 
he was appraised to receive forty-two for two negatives, and as 


50 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


it can be divided into three, the three over the thirty-nine are 
counted for the second negative. Hence he is beaten once, and 
after recovery is to be appraised again and beaten accordingly. 

MISHNA V///.: How is the punishment with stripes to be 
performed? Heties his both hands to the pillar, and the mes- 
senger of the court takes hold of his clothes, without care 
whether they tear or disjoin, until he uncovers the breast. The 
stone on which the messenger is to stand is placed behind him, 
upon which he stands with a strap of calf leather compounded 
of two, which, folded again, constitutes four, with two small 
stripes attached to it. 

The size of its handle was a span, and of the same size was 
the width of it, and the top of it reaches his belly. He strikes 
him one-third in front and two-thirds on the back. He is not 
beaten while standing nor sitting, but while bending; as it reads 
[Deut. xxv. 2]: “‘ The judge shall cause him to lie down,’’ and 
the striker strikes him with one hand with all his force. And 
the reader reads from [ibid. xxviii. 58-59]: ‘‘If thou wilt 
not. ... Then will the Lord render peculiar thy plagues,”’ 
etc., to the end of the verse. And if the striker has not finished 
yet, he begins [ibid. xxix. 8]: ““ Keep ye therefore,’ etc., and 
finishes with [Psalm Ixxviii. 38]: ‘‘ But he, being merciful, for- 
gave the iniquity.’’ And if the act was not finished as yet, he 
returns to the beginning. If it happens that he dies under the 
messenger’s hand, the latter is free. If, however, he added one 
stripe which caused death, he is exiled. If while beaten he col- 
lapsed and became incontinent of urine or excrement, he is 
freed. R. Jehudah maintains: A male, when incontinent of 
feces; and a female, of urine. 

GEMARA: What is the reason that he shall be freed if he 
collapsed, etc.? His having been already disgraced. 

R. Shesheth said in the name of R. Eliezer b. Azaria: 
Whence do we know that the strap must be of calf leather? 
Because immediately after ‘* forty stripes ’’ it reads, ‘‘ thou shalt 
muzzle the ox.’’ (See appendix.) 

‘* Two small stripes,’’ etc. In a Boraitha it is written from 
ass leather, and it is as a certain Galilean preached in the pres- 
ence of R. Hisda [Isaiah, i. 3]: “‘ The ox knoweth his owner 
and the ass his master’s crib: Israel doth not,’’ etc. The Holy 
One, blessed be He, said: ‘‘ He that knoweth the master’s crib 
shall take revenge from him who does not want to know it.’’ 

‘* One-third in front,’’ etc. Whence is this deduced? Said 





TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 51 


R. Kahana: From ‘‘ to be beaten before his face according to 
the degree of his fault,’’ which means for one fault in the front 
and for two in the back. 

‘* The striker strikes him with one hand,’’ etc. The rabbis 
taught: The court appoints messengers who are weak in force 
but strong in wisdom. R. Jehudah, however, said: Even vice 
versa. Said Rabha: It seems to me that R. Jehudah is correct, 
because it reads ‘‘ not more’’; now if the messenger were weak 
in wisdom he must be warned, but if strong in wisdom, why 
warning? The rabbis, however, maintain the contrary, that 
warning is of consequence only to him who is learned to be 
careful. There is a Boraitha: When he lifts up, he does it with 
both hands, but strikes with one hand, so that the strokes shall 
become weaker. | 

‘** And the reader reads,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: The chief 
of the judges reads; the second numbers, and the third says, 
strike! When the stripes are many he prolongs, and when less 
he shortens. But does not the Mishna state ‘‘ he returns to the 
beginning of the passage’’? It is better that the reading should 
be finished with the stripes; but if it was not, he returns. The 
rabbis taught: It reads [Deut. xxv. 3]: ‘‘ Too many stripes’’; 
but lest one say that one or two does not matter? Therefore 
‘“not more’’—not even one. But if so, to what purpose “‘ too 
many stripes’’? To teach that if it happen so, even the stripes 
which were given rightly are to be considered too many (in 
force). 

‘* Collapsed,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: A male as well as a 
female ‘‘in feces,’’ but not ‘‘in urine.’’ So R. Mair. R. 
Jehuda said: A male ‘‘in feces’’ and a female ‘‘in urine.’’ 
The sages, however, maintain: There is no difference between 
male and female, and between feces and urine; at all events the 
beaten is to be freed. But is there not a Boraitha: R. Jehudah 
said: Male and female in feces? He meant to say that in such 
a case all agree, but concerning incontinence of urine there is a 
difference of opinion. 

Samuel said: If after he has been tied, he succeeds to run 
away from the court, he is free. An objection was raised from 
the following: Collapsing frees one whether it happen at the 
first stroke or the second, but if the strap broke he is free only 
if it happened at the second, but not at the first. Now, why 
should this not be equivalent to running away, which frees even 
before the first strike? This is no objection, when he runs away 


‘ 


52 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


he could not be beaten (and as he was already disgraced, he is 
not taken to be disgraced again), but here he is still present. 

The rabbis taught: If it was concluded by the examination 
that he will collapse in case he is beaten, he is to be freed; but 
if the conclusion is that he will collapse after having been beaten, 
it does not free him. Furthermore, if it happen that he col- 
lapse before he was taken to be beaten, it does not prevent after 
recovery; because it reads [Deut. xxv. 2, 3]: ‘‘ And to be 
beaten... and... thus rendered vile,’’ but not rendered 
vile before beaten. 

MISHNA JX.: All who are liable to Korath, if beaten, are 
freed from it, as it reads [ibid., ibid. 3]: ‘‘ Thy brother rendered 
vile,’’ z.¢., as soon as he was rendered vile, he is thy brother. 
So R. Hananye b. Gamaliel; the same also said: If one loses 
his soul for one sin, so much the more his soul should be 
saved because of one meritorious act! Said R. Simeon: This 
may be inferred from the very place which treats of Korath — 
[Lev. xviii. 29]: ““ Even the souls that commit them shall be 
cut off,’’ and [ibid., ibid 5]: ‘* Ordinances, which, if a man do, 
he shall live in them.’’ As the whole portion is of negative 
commands, it is to be inferred that if one only abstains from 
committing a crime, he is rewarded as if he acted meritoriously. 
R. Simeon b. Rabbi said: It reads [Deut. xii. 23]: “‘ Be firm so 
as not to eat the blood; for the blood is the life.’’ Now, for 
rejecting blood which is disgusting to one, he is rewarded; from 
money and women, to which the nature of man is inclined, so 
much the more should he be rewarded if he separates himself; 
and not only he, but all his descendants to the end of the genera- 
tions, may berewarded. R. Hananiab. Akasihasaid: The Holy 
One, blessed be He, wanted to make Israel blissful and there- 
fore he multiplied to them his commands in the Torah, as it 
reads [Isaiah, xlii. 21]: ‘‘ The Lord willed (to do this) for the 
sake of his righteousness: (therefore) he magnifieth the law, and — 
maketh it honorable.’’ 

GEMARA: Said R. Jehanan: The colleagues of R. ’Han- 
anye differ with him (as according to them stripes do not substi- 
tute Korath). Said R. Ada b. A’haba in the name of Rabh: 
The Halakha nevertheless prevails with R. Hananye. Said R. 
Joseph: Who, then, ascended to heaven, returned, saying that 
the Halakha prevails with him? Said Abayi to him: According 
to you, ‘that which was said by R. Jehoshua b. Levi, “‘ three 
things were done by the human court, and the heavenly court 








TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 53 


agreed with it,’’ is also to be questioned: who ascended to 
heaven and convinced himself that it was so? but such is inferred 
from the Scripture; well, the same is here, too. What are the 
three things in question? The following: The reading of the 
Book of Esther on Purim, greeting with the Holy Name, and 
placing the tithe belonging to the Levites in the treasury of the 
sanctuary. The first (Book of Esther) from [Esther, ix. 27]: 
““ The Jews took it upon themselves as a duty and accepted,”’ 
means, they took upon themselves in their human court, and it 
was accepted in the heavenly court. ‘“‘ Greeting’’ from [Ruth, 
ii. 4]: “‘ And he said unto the reapers, the Lord be with you,’’ 
and also [Judges, vi. 12]: ‘* The Lord is with thee.’’ To what 


_ purpose is the second quotation? Lest one say that Boas did it 


according to his own opinion and without the admission by 
heaven, therefore the-other quotation which was said by an 
angel. And concerning tithe from [Malachi, iii. 10]: ‘‘ Bring 
ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be provision 
in my house, and prove me but herewith, saith the Lord of 
hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven, and 
pour out for you a blessing, until it be more than enough.”’ 

R. Elazar said: At three places the Holy Spirit appeared: 
At the court of Shem, of the prophet Samuel, and in the court 
of King Solomon. At the court of Shem [Gen. xxxviii. 26]: 
** And Judah acknowledged them and said, She hath been more 
righteous than I.’’ And whence did he know it? Perhaps as 
he was with her, so was some one else? Therefore a heavenly 
voice was heard: I have decided that so is it to be. In the 
court of Samuel [I Samuel, xii. 5]: ‘‘ And he* answered, He is 
witness.’’ He? ¢hey ought to be! Hence a heavenly voice was 
heard, I witness that so it is. And [I Kings, iii. 27]: ‘‘ The 
king then answered and said, Give her the living child and do 
not slay it: she is its mother.’’ And whence do we know it is 
so; perhaps she nevertheless deceived him? Hence the last 
words, “‘ she is its mother,’’ were said by a heavenly voice. 
Said Rabha: If it were inferred from the Scripture only, all of 
them could be objected to, but this is known by tradition. 

R. Simlayi lectured: Six hundred and thirteen commands 
were said to Moses; three hundred and sixty-five of them nega- 
tives, corresponding to the number of days in a year counting 
according to sunrise; and two hundred and forty-eight positives, 





* Leeser’s translation does not correspond. 


54 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


corresponding to the members of a man’s body. Said R. Ham- | 
nunah: Where is there an allusion thereto in the Scripture? 
[Deut. xxxiii. 4]: ‘‘ The Torah which Moses commanded us.’’ 
The letters of the word Torah number six hundred and eleven 
(Tav is 400; Vov, 6; Reish, 200, and Hei, 5), and the two first 
commandments, however, of the ten, we ourselves have heard 
from Heaven. However, David came and reduced their num- 
ber to eleven [Psalm xv. 2-5]: ‘‘ He that walketh uprightly ”’ 
means Abraham, to whom such an expression was said in |[Gen. 
xvii. 1]: ‘‘ Worketh righteously’? means Aba A’helgiah (see 
Tainith, p. 66-68). ‘‘ Speaketh the truth”’ as, e.g., R. Saphra. 
““ Uttereth no calumny,”’ z.e., Jacob, our father. “‘ That doth 
no evil to his neighbor,’’ z.¢., he who takes care not to compete 
with his neighbor’s business. ‘‘ No reproach on his fellow man ’’ 
means him who approaches his relatives. ‘‘ Despicable is de- 
spised ’’ means the king, who carried his father’s bones on a bed 
of ropes. ‘‘ Honoreth those who fear the Lord’’ means King 
Jehoshofath, who used to arise from his throne on seeing a 
scholar, kissed him, and called him, my father, my master, etc. 
“* That sweareth to his own injury, and changeth not,’’ 2.¢., as 
R. Jehanan said: If one says I will fast until I will come home, 
it is to be considered. ‘‘ Money for interest,’’ z.¢e., him who 
does not accept usury even from an idolator. ‘*‘ Taketh no 
bribe’’ means, eg., R. Ismael b. Jose, who does not accept 
even his own goods from his gardener for the purpose that he 
shall try his case. ‘‘ He that doth these things shall not be 
moved to eternity.’’ [When R. Gamaliel used to come to this 
passage, he used to weep, saying: Who performed a// this shall. 
not be moved, but one of them does not suffice (see Sanhedrin, 
Pp. 237).] ) 
Isaiah, then came and reduced them (the 613 commands) to 
six [xxxili. 15]: ‘‘ He that (2) walketh in righteousness, (4) speak- 
eth uprightly, (c) despiseth the gain of oppressions, (@) shaketh 
his hands against taking hold of bribes, (¢) stoppeth his ears 
against hearing of blood, and (/) shutteth his eyes against look- 
ing on evil.’’ (a) Means Abraham, of whom it reads [Gen. xviii. 
19]: ‘‘ For I know him, that he will command,’’ etc. (4) Means 
him who does not anger his colleague in public. (c) Means R. 
Ishmael b. Elisha. (d@) R. Ishmael b. Jose. (¢) R. Eliezar b. 
Simeon, and (/) means as R. Hiya b. Aba said: Who does not 
look on women washing near the bank of the river. (See last 


gate, p. 137.) 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 55 


Michah came and reduced them to three [vi. 8]: “‘ He hath 


told thee, O man, what is good; and what the Lord doth re- 


quire of thee: (nothing) but to do justice, and to love kindness, 
and to walk humbly with thy God.’’ ‘‘ To do justice’’ means 
judgment; ‘‘ love kindness’’ bestowing of favors; and ‘‘ walk 
humbly,’’ providing for burial of the dead and marriage of poor 
maidens. | , 

Isaiah (the second) again reduced them to two [lvi. 1]: 
‘* Thus hath said the Lord, Keep ye justice and do equity.”” 

Amos then came and reduced them to one [v. 4]: ODCCK YE 
for me, and ye shall live.’ 

R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak opposed: Perhaps he means seek for 
me to perform everything that is written in the Law? There- 
fore Habakkuk was the one who reduced them to one [ii. 4]: 


“The righteous should live with his faith.’’ Said R. Jose b. 


Hanina: Four decrees Moses has decreed upon Israel, and four 
prophets came and abolished them. Moses said [ Deut. xxxiii. 
28]: ‘‘And then dwelt Israel in safety, alone,’’ etc. Amos 
abolished it [vii. 5]: ‘‘ How should Jacob be able to endure,”’ 
then immediately in (6) ‘‘ The Lord bethought .. . this shall 
not be.’’ Moses said [Deut. xxviii. 65]: “‘ And among these 
nations shalt thou find no ease.’’ Jeremiah abolished it, saying 
[xxxi. 2]: “‘ He is going to give rest to Israel.’’* Moses said 
(Ex. xxxiv. 7]: ‘* Visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the 
children.’’ Ezekiel abolished it by saying [xviii. 4]: ‘‘ The soul 


_which sinneth, that. alone shall die.’’ Moses said [Lev. xxvi. 


38]: “‘ And ye shall be lost among the nations.’’ Isaiah abol- 
ished it by saying [xxvii. 13]: ‘‘ The great cornet shall be 
blown,’’ etc. Said Rabh, I am nevertheless afraid of the pas- 
sage ‘*‘ ye shall be lost among the nations,’’ and of the end of 
same, ‘‘ the land of your enemies shall consume you.’’ Mar- 
zutrah opposed, relating the following: It happened with Rab- 
ban Gamaliel, R. Elazar b. Azariah, R. Jehoshua, and R. 
Aqiba, who were on the road, and heard the noise of the city 
of Rome at Patlus, a distance of 120 miles, and they began to 
weep; but R. Agqiba smiled. And to the question, Why are 
you smiling, he returned the question, Why do you weep; re- 
joined they: Those idolators who bow themselves to images and 
smoke frankincense to the idols are resting in peace, the con- 
trary is with us, that even our holy Temple is burned by fire, 





* Leeser’s translation does not correspond. 


56 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and we should not weep? Rejoined he: For the same reason 
Iam smiling. If such is done to them who act against His will 
so much the more will be done in the future to them who act in 
accordance with His will. It happened again that the same 
were going to Jerusalem, when they arrived to the Mount Zer- 
phim, they tore their garments; and when they approached 
the Mount of the Temple and saw a fox running from the place 
where the Holy of Holies had been situated, they began to 
weep; but R. Aqiba smiled. To their question why he smiled, 
he answered: It reads [Isaiah, viii. 2]: ‘‘ Witnesses, Uriyah the 
priest, and Zecharyahu,’’ etc. Why is Uriyah conjoined with 
Zecharyahu? Was not the former at the first Temple and the 
latter at the second? It was because the passage bases the 
prophecy of Zecharyahu upon the prophecy of Uriyah. Uriyah 
said [Micha iii. 12]: ‘‘ Therefore for your sake shall Zion be 
ploughed up as a field,’’ etc. Zechariah said [viii. 4]: ‘‘ Again 
shall there sit old men and old women in the streets of Jerusa- 
lem,’’ etc. Until the prophecy of Uriyah was not fulfilled I 
feared lest the prophecy of Zechariah will come to be realized 
but now since I see that Uriyah’s prophecy is fulfilled I am sure 
that Zechariah’s prophecy will also be fulfilled in the near future. 
Upon this version they said to him: Aqiba, thou hast condoled 
us, thou hast condoled us! 


APPENDIX TO PAGE 50. 


R. Shesheth said in the name of R. Eliezer b. Azariah: He 
who disgraces the festivals is regarded as if he worshipped idols, 
as it reads [Exod. xxxiv. 17]: ‘‘ Thou shall not make unto thy- 
self any molten gods,’’ and immediately follows the verse ‘‘The 
feast,’’ etc. The same said again in the name of the said au- 
thority: He who speaks evil of his neighbor, he who listens to 
such evil-speaking, finally he who bears false testimony deserves 
to be thrown to the dogs, as [ibid. xxii. 30] ‘‘to the dogs shall 
ye cast it,’’ is immediately followed by [xxiii. 1] ‘‘ Ye shall not 
spread (thisso) false report,’’ which should be read also thassi, 
z.é., ye shall not excite one against the other. 


oe Ea LT a OE = 


_ TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 


P) 





sat 
Hi 





CONTENTS. 





Synopsis OF SUBJECTS OF TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS) . 


' 


CHAPTER I. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING OATHS TO WHICH IS 
ATTACHED THE LIABILITY OF A SIN-OFFERING OR STRIPES. 
—THE CONDITIONS OF LIABILITY AS DETERMINED BY THE 
TIME OF REMEMBERING OR FORGETTING THE OATH.— 
WuicuH OatuHs ARE OR ARE Not ATONED For BY PRIVATE 
AND CONGREGATIONAL SACRIFICES AND ALSO BY THE Day 
oF ATONEMENT.—ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE Two KINDs OF 
OATHS SUBDIVIDED INTO Four . ; i 7 


CHAPTER II. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE COGNITION OF DE- 
FILEMENT; ITs Two KINDs, SUBDIVIDED INTO FouR, AND 
THEIR ILLUSTRATIONS.—TIHE CEREMONIAL ACCOMPANYING 
THE CONSECRATION OF THE EXTENSIONS BUILT IN THE 
CourT-YARD OF THE TEMPLE, AND IN JERUSALEM IN GEN- 
ERAL.—ILLUSTRATIONS OF POSITIVE COMMANDMENTS THAT 
Do or Do Not Entra. LIABILITY . ? : P 


CHAPTER IIL 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE OATH-TRANS- 
GRESSION CONSIDERED AS REFERRING TO BOTH PAST AND 
FuTURE,.—THE DETERMINATION OF THE SIZE OR QUAN- 
TITY OF THE OBJECT REGARDING WHICH THE OATH IS 
Maprt.—THE WoORDING OF THE OAaTH.—IS OR Is Nor 
DRINKING INCLUDED IN EATING (TO WHICH THE OATH 
REFERS) AND vice versa?—Dors OR Dors Not THE ReE- 
PEATED STATING OF THE OATH ENTAIL A SEPARATE 
LiABILITY.—To WuHat AcTs oR WorpDS THE OATH RE- 
LATES.—OATHS MADE BY COMPULSION.—OATHS CONCERN- 
ING THE FULFILLING OR IGNORING OF A COMMANDMENT. 


CHAPTER IV. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE WITNESS-OATH : 
Wuo Is or Is Nor REsponsispLE THEREFOR; How THE 
PLACE WHERE SUCH Is MADE (WITHIN OR WITHOUT THE 


iii 








PAGE 


17 


27 


CONTENTS. 


CourT) DETERMINES Its LiaBILity ; Ir MADE INTEN- PAGE 


TIONALLY.—THE Laws oF ADJURATION.—TI wo PARTIES 
OF WITNESSES CONTRADICTING EACH OTHER.—FOR WHICH 
OF THE DivINE NAMES AND ATTRIBUTES (WHEN USED IN 
AN OATH) ONEIS CULPABLE . . . ; : 


CHAPTER V., 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE DEPOSITORY- 


OatH: Wuo Is or Is Not Fit to Take It; WHERE 
THE DENIAL OF THE DEPosIT BY OATH MusT TAKE PLACE ; 
THE CONDITIONS DETERMINING THE LIABILITY TO BE 
EITHER ONE OR FOR EACH ARTICLE SEPARATELY; IN 
WHICH RESPECT SUCH OATH IS MORE RIGOROUS THAN THE 
WITNESS OATH . ; ; ; : i ; : : 


CHAPTER VI. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE CIRCUMSTANCES 


UNDER WHICH THE CouRT GIVES AN OATH TO ONE OF THE 
CONTESTANTS.—THE NATURE OF THE CLAIM AND OF ITs 
PARTIAL ADMISSION.—WHICH ADMISSION Is oR Is Not RE- 
GARDED AS CORRESPONDING WITH THE CLAIM.—THE CASES 
WHERE THE CLAIM IS FOR MOVABLES AND THE ADMISSION 
FOR IMMOVABLES, OR vice versa.—WHO ARE OR ARE Not FIT 
TO ENTER A CLAIM WHICH ENTAILS AN OATH.—THE FORM 
OF THE OATH AND THE INTRODUCTION THERETO USED BY 
THE CouRT, AS WELL AS THE KIND OF SACRED OBJECT 
ONE Must HoLp WHEN TAKING THE OATH.—ARTICLES 
THE CLAIM TO WHICH ENTAILS No OaTH.—THE Con- 
DITIONS UNDER WHICH EITHER AN OATH MUST BE 
TAKEN FOR A Lost PLEDGE OR THE VALUE THEREOF MUST 
BE PAID : 4 : : : ; : , : } 


CHAPTER VII. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE CONDITIONS UNDER 


WHICH THE OATH IS GIVEN TO THE PLAINTIFF OR TO THE 
DEFENDANT.—REGARDING A SUSPECT OF PERJURY.—THE 
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A BIBLICAL AND A RABBINICAL 
OaTH.—Is or Is Not A RABBINICAL OATH TRANSFERABLE ? 
—TueE OaTH oF ORPHANS (PLAINTIFF OR DEFENDANT), 
PARTNERS, GARDENERS.—THE CASES WHEN THE SAB- 
BATHIC YEAR RELEASES ONE FROM AN OATH . $ : 


CHAPTER VIII. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE Four KINDS OF 


BAILEES: THE CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH THEY ARE TO 
Pay or TO Takt AN OATH.—WHAT IS AN UTTERED 
OATH, A VAIN OATH, A FALSE OatH.—Cases ILLUSTRAT- 
ING THE VARIOUS CLAIMS REGARDING THE Four KINDS 
OF BAILEES . 3 é ‘ - ; : ( R ‘ 


47 


67 


75 


93 


Ce ae 











SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 


CHAPTER I. 


Misuna J. There are two kinds of oaths which are subdivided into four. 
The he-goat makes it pending. How is this to be understood? If it does 
not atone, what is the use of making it pending? It means, i.e, if the trans- 
gressor dies then it may be considered that if he dies before he becomes 
aware of it, this sin is not reckoned to him any more. Said Rabha to him: 
“In case he dies, the death itself completes the atonement; it is the he-goat 
that saves him from chastisement before he becomes aware by making it 
pending. All the above-mentioned persons are atoned for by the exported 
he-goats for all other transgressions without any difference, etc. Such is 
the custom of the divine attribute of justice, that the righteous atone for 
the wicked and not that the wicked atone for another wicked, . I-16 


CHAPTER II. 


Misuna J. The cognition of uncleanness is of two kinds subdivided into 
four. The courtyard was sanctified with the remains of a meal-offering 
only, in order to make it equal to the City of Jerusalem itself, etc. The 
orchestra of the thanks-offering consisted of violins, fifes, trumpets on every 
corner as well as on every elevated stone in Jerusalem, and used to play, etc. 
It was taught, R. Huna says: “ All the details in the Mishna were essential 
in the construction, etc. If one enters a leprous house backwards, although 
all his body was already in the house except his nose, he remains clean. 
And ye shall separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness,”’ whence 
you derive the warning that the children of Israel should separate them- 
selves from their wives near the period of menstruation, etc. If there 
were two paths one of which was unclean (but it was not certain which 
one), and one passed through one of them entering, etc. . i 17-26 


CHAPTER III. 


Misuna J. to VII. There are two kinds of oaths subdivided into four. 
I swear that I will eat, or I will not eat, etc. Where do we find that one 
must bring an offering for mere talk, as this one does talk and brings an 
offering. What is Issor mentioned in the Torah? If one says: “I take 
upon myself not to eat meat,” etc. Vain (Shakve) and false (Shekker) are 
identical. Stripes apply to all negatives of the Torah implying manual 
labor, but not to those without manual labor, excepting, however, an oath. 
There is a moth, which is but a minimum in size, and yet one is liable for 


Vv 


vi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


consuming it. I swear that I will not eat, and thereafter eats and drinks, he 
is guilty but once. I will drink neither wine, oil nor honey, and then drinks, 
he is guilty for each severally. If he swore not to eat and thereafter ate 
carcasses or illegal cattle, reptiles and vermin, he is guilty. R. Simeon 
declares him free. The reason of him who holds that one is liable for an 
inclusion is that he compares it to an additional prohibition. It is im- 
material whether the things sworn off concern himself or others, whether 
they are or are not ofsome essential nature. One is guilty only for an 
oath made with reference to the future, etc. I swear that I know something 
to testify for you, and it is found hereafter that he knows nothing, etc. 
There is a rule that, if to something that was included in the general a 
new law be applied, only by the new one must guide one’s self, etc. To 
exclude compulsion what could illustrate this? As it happened to R. 
Kahana and R. Assi after the lectures at Rabh’s college, etc. Suppose 
one swear not to eat this bread, and then he is in danger if he does not 
eat it, how is it, etc.? If one swears to ignore some commandment and 
does not carry out his oath, etc. If one says I swear not to eat this bread, 
in case I eat the other, etc. Which is false swearing? If one swears that 
something is different from what it is known by everybody to be. The 
provisions regarding uttered swearing apply to males, females, to kindred, 
non-kindred, etc. . : : ; 4 ; ‘ ‘ : . ; 27-46 


CHAPTER IV. 


MisHNA J. TO VI. The witness-oath applies to men but not to women, 
to unrelated but not to kindred, etc. If a scholar was aware of a case, but 
it was a humiliation to him to go to that particular court he may remain at 
home, etc., concerning civil cases only. The many things inferred from 
Exod. xxiii. 7. Keep thyself far from a false speech. How does a witness- 
oath come about? If some one said to two, etc. If there were two parties 
of witnesses and both denied successively, etc. There is also a case concern- 
ing a witness who refuses to testify to the death of a husband, etc. If one 
of them denies and the other confesses, etc. I adjure you that you come and 


bear me witness, that I have in the possession of so and so, etc. I adjure. 


you to testify that so and so has spread abroad an evil name on my 
daughter, etc. We swear that we know nothing for you, while in reality 
they do know, etc. I adjure you, I impose upon you, I bind you (by oath) 
so they are guilty, etc. If one writes Aleph Lamed (the first letters from 
Eloim), etc. It must not be erased, etc. All the divine names found in the 
Torah in connection with Abraham are holy, etc. Amen embraces oath, 


acceptance and confidence, etc. Nay means oath and yea means also an. 


oath, etc. R. Kama, while sitting before R. Jehudah, repeated the Mishna 
in its own language, and he said to him: “ Change the language and use 
it in the third person, . : : A ‘ ; ‘ , , : 46-65 


CHAPTER V. 


Misuna J. to VI. The depository oath concerns men and women non- 
kindred and kindred, those fit to testify and those unfit, etc. What is the 
law, when one has intentionally made a depository oath in spite of a warning, 
is he liable to a sin-offering or not? If the depository claims that the 


Sa ee ee ee 


Beene ee a ee a 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. vii 


deposit has been stolen from him, swears, but thereafter confesses, etc. If 
one denies money when there are witnesses, he is subject to an oath, but 
is free from such if there is a document. How is it if five persons claim the 
four articles and he says to one of them I swear that thou hast not with 
me a deposit, etc., and not thou and not thou, etc. ; Q f 66-74 


CHAPTER VI. 


Misuna J. To III, In the case of an oath before court, the claim must 
amount to two silver, and the confession to one peruta, etc. If one requires 
movables and real estate, and the other admits movables but denies real estate 
or vice versa, he is free, etc. One must stand when taking the oath; a 
scholar, however, may do it while sitting. An oath taken by one before the 
court must be uttered in a language he understands, and the court must 
say to him the following introduction. Be aware that the whole world was 
trembling when the Lord spake on the Mount Sinai: “ Thou shalt not bear 
the name of the Lord thy God falsely.” I have with you a gold dinar in 
gold. Nay you have with me only a silver dinar, he is liable. If one was 
about to claim wheat, and the defendant hastened to confess barley, etc. 
What is the difference between a biblical and a rabbinical oath. I have a 
mana with you. Yea, you shall not return it to me without the presence 
of witnesses, etc. In another case one demanded a hundred zuz, etc. A 
borrower said to the lender: “ You are trusted so long as you will say that © 
I have not paid you”’; thereafter he paid him in the presence of witnesses, 
etc. One does not swear to the following: To slaves written documents, etc. 
One swears but to things capable of being measured, weighed and counted. 
How so? If one lends to his neighbor on a pledge, and the pledge got lost, 
etc. If one lends to his neighbor 1,000 zuz, and pledges them the handle 
‘of a scythe only, etc. : rage : ‘ j ; } ii) Tae 


CHAPTER VII. 


MisHNA J. All those who are subject to a biblical oath swear and do not 
pay, etc. Give me change for a dinar. Give the dinar. I have given it to you 
already, etc. You have hired me for two zuz to repair something, while the 
employer says that he hired him only for one zuz, etc. If witnesses saw one 
concealing utensils under his garments when coming out from a house, 
and he claims that he had bought them, etc. The oath returns to its place— 
the Mount Sinai. If there were two parties of witnesses contradicting each 
other, each party may appear and testify for itself. Let the master con- 
join with us in nullifying the statement of Rabh and Samuel. It once 
happened that B, who had borrowed money of A through a surety and 
on a document died, etc. . ; : ° , 7 x : ; 93-105 


CHAPTER VIII. 


Misuna /. There are four kinds of bailees, gratuitous, on hire, borrower 
and hirer, etc. This is the rule: “ Whoever tends to commutate, by his 
oath liability to liability, unliability to unability, or unability to liability is 
free;etc. . 5 . ‘ ; ih eee : ; ; Appendix, 106-108 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 





CHAPIER  b 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING OATHS TO WHICH IS ATTACHED 
THE LIABILITY OF A SIN-OFFERING OR STRIPES.—THE CONDITIONS 
OF LIABILITY AS DETERMINED BY THE TIME OF REMEMBERING OR 
FORGETTING THE OATH.—WHICH OATHS ARE OR ARE NOT ATONED 
FOR BY PRIVATE AND CONGREGATIONAL SACRIFICES AND ALSO BY 
THE DAY OF ATONEMENT.—ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE TWO KINDS 
OF OATHS SUBDIVIDED INTO FOUR. 


'~MISHNA J/.: There are two kinds of oaths which are sub- 
divided into four. The cognition of uncleanness is of two kinds 
subdivided into four. The carrying in and out on the Sabbath 
day is of two kinds subdivided into four, and also aspects of 
leprosy are in kind two and subdivided into four. 

If one was originally cognizant of his being unclean, and 
(after he had consumed of the holy food or entered the sanc- 
tuary) presently became aware of this fact anew (that he com- 
mitted this or that while being unclean), but was not conscious 
of it during the act, so he is obliged to bring a rich or poor offer- 
ing. If, however, he had the knowledge at the start but not at 
the end of the act, so the he-goat, the blood of which is interiorly 
to be sprinkled on the day of atonement as well as the day itself, 
will effect a delay of the punishment until he gets to know his 
transgression, and then he is to bring the above-mentioned 
offering. 

If there was no antecedent knowledge, but he became con- 
scious of it after, his expiation is effected by the he-goat sacri- 
ficed exteriorly on the day of atonement as well as that day 
itself; for it reads: ‘‘ Except the sin-offering of the atonement,”’ 
2.é., what this atones for the other one does, too; just as the 
exterior he-goat propitiates only where there was one knowing, 
so propitiates the interior one, only where ove knowing took 

3 


4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


place. But where there was no knowledge either before or 
after, the propitiation is effected by the he-goats sacrificed on 
(the) holidays and new-moon days. SoR. Jehudah; R. Simeon, 
however, says: The he-goats of the holidays atone, but not 
those of the new-moon days, which propitiate only him who ate 
something polluted while being himself clean. R. Mair says: 
All goat sacrifices are equivalent as to propitiating (the) pollu- 
tion of the holy temple and its holy sacrifice. R. Simeon would 
say: The he-goats of the new-moon days propitiate for the clean 
who ate something polluted; those of the holidays, for cases 
where there was no knowing either before or after; and that of 
the day of atonement, for cases where there is no antecedent 
but a subsequent knowing. And when he wasasked: May one of 
them be sacrificed instead of the other? he answered: Aye! 
Whereupon they retorted: Since they are not all equivalent as to 
their capacity of propitiating, how can they substitute one an- 
other? To which he replied: They all possess this in common that 
they propitiate for polluting the holy temple and its offerings. 
R. Simeon b. Jehudah, however, said in his name: The he-goats 
of the new-moon days propitiate for a clean one who has eaten 
defiled food; those of the holidays possess a greater power, as 
they propitiate for the clean who has eaten defiled, and for the 
case of polluting where there was neither antecedent nor subse- 
quent knowledge; those of the day of atonement are superior 
to the others in that they propitiate not only for the clean one 
who has received defiled food and for the case of neither ante- 
cedent nor subsequent knowledge, but also for the case where 
there is no antecedent but a subsequent knowledge. Hereupon 
he was questioned: May the one he-goat be offered as substitute 
forthe other? And he answered: Yea. To which the others re- 
joined: It may be admitted that the goats of the day of atone- 
ment be offered on the new-moon days, but how can the reverse 
take place, z.¢e., that the goats of the new-moon days propitiate 
for what they are not capable of doing? And his answer was: 
They all have this in common that they propitiate defilement of 
the holy temple and of its holy viands. 

For wanton pollution of the holy temple and of its holy 
offerings the interior he-goat of the day of atonement as well as 
this day itself atones for all other transgressions of the Law 
both lenient and rigorous, intentional and unintentional, the 
foreknown and unforeknown, the positive and negative command- 
ments, those entailing koreth or judicial death-punishment, for 


SS ee 
Ags 


ae 





ye ee sain 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 5 


all these the exported goat atones. Herein are equal Israelites, 
priests, and the anointed high-priest. What difference does, 
then, exist between Israelite and priest and anointed high- 
priest? That the blood of the bullock propitiates for the pollu- 
tion of the sanctuary and of the holy viands by the priests. R. 
Simeon, however, says: Even as the blood of the goat prepared 
in the interior propitiates for the Israelites, so does the blood of 
the bullock for the priest; even as the confession of sins over 
the kid to be exported propitiates for the Israelite, so does the 
confession of sins over the bullock propitiate for the priest. 
GEMARA: Let us see in accordance with whom is our 
Mishna’s statement. It is not in accordance with R. Ismael 
and also not with R. Aqiba, as according to the former, one is 
not liable to a sin-offering, only if the oath concerns the future 
(this is explained in Chap. III. of this tract), and according to 
the latter, one is liable only for forgetting that the object is 
defiled, but not if he forgot that this is the sanctuary? The 
Mishna can be explained in accordance with both. With R. 
Ismael, as he may say that the expression of the Mishna, two 
subdivided into four, means that for some of them one is liable, 
and for some of them one is not. The same can be said con- 
cerning R. Aqiba. But howcan R. Aqiba’s statement be ex- 
plained so? Does not the Mishna include leprosy in which 
there is not a single case for which one is not liable to a sin- 
offering, consequently all the cases mentioned in the Mishna 
are of the same kind? We must, therefore, say that it is in 
accordance with R. Ismael only, and to the question that R. 
Ismael does not make one liable for the past, it may be answered 
that he frees him from the liability of a sin-offering only, but 
not from the punishment of stripes, as he holds that stripes 
apply even to such a negative command in which there is no 
manual labor, and this is, as Rabha explained elsewhere (Chap. 
III.), that such is R. Ismael’s opinion. But if so, then R. 
Johanan’s statements would contradict each other—namely, at 
one place he declared that the Halakha prevails according to an 
dnonymous Mishna (our Mishna, which is anonymous, and is in 
accordance with R. Ismael), and elsewhere it was thought if one 
says: I swear to eat this loaf of bread to-day, the day, however, 
has passed and he did not eat it, according to both Johanan and 
Resh Lakish stripes do not apply. However, their reasons are 
different. The reason of the former is that there is no manual 
act, and the reason of the latter is that the warning to this trans- 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


gression could not be of a certain, but of a doubtful kind (as 
perhaps he will still keep to his oath), hence, we see that R. 
Johanan’s decision is that there are no stripes to a non-manual 
act, though contrary to the decision of the Mishna? R. Jo- 
hanan’s above decision is in accordance with his rule, for it is in 
accordance with another anonymous Mishna, as follows: ‘‘ I 
swear that I will not eat this loaf, I swear again that I will 
not eat it,’’and thereafter he did eat, he is liable only for 
the oath first which had made this bread illegalto him. (The 
second oath, however, is considered but an oath to keep his 
word according to the law, and such an oath is not subject 
to punishment.) © This is an utterance oath, to whose intentional 
transgression stripes apply, and to an unintentional, a rich or 
poor offering. Now, the expression of the Mishna, ¢hzs is, 
means that only to such a transgression which is of a past nature 
stripes apply, but not to a transgression of a future nature, ¢.g., 


I will eat, etc., hence this Mishna, which is also anonymous, is — 


in accordance with R. Johanan’s opinion. 

But let us see; both Mishnaioth are anonymous, why, then, 
should R. Johanan choose the last one and not the first? Ac- 
cording to this question, you also may ask: Why did Rabbi 
(editor of the Mishna) insert such two contradictory Mishnaioth? 
You must say, then, that formerly, Rabbi’s opinion was that a 
negative command of non-manual act is under the category of 
stripes, but after reconsideration he came to the conclusion that 
it is not, and therefore inserted the last, but did not care to 
strike out the first. 

Let us see; after all, you have explained the Mishna in 
accordance with R. Ismael and as concerning stripes, but does 
not the Mishna mention four kinds of leprosy, to all of which 
stripes by no means apply? Nay; there is a case to which 
stripes do apply—viz.: when cuts off the leprosy (before the 
priest saw it), and this is in accordance with R. Abin in the 
name of R. Elai, who said that wherever the Scripture uses one 
of these expressions, ‘‘ Take heed to thyself, lest a%/’’ (the 
negative particle of the imperative mood) is a negative com- 
-mandment. But does not the Mishna mention the violation of 
Sabbath to which also stripes do not apply, for, it is under the 
category of capital punishment, to which stripes cannot apply? 
R. Ismael holds that even to such, stripes do apply, and there- 
fore the Mishna is explained in accordance with him. 

R. Joseph, however, says: Our Mishna is in accordance with 


~ 


be ee ee Renee 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 7 


Rabi’s own opinion, and he composed it in accordance with 
different Tanaim, concerning knowing and not knowing, he took 
R. Ismael’s opinion, and concerning oaths he took R. Agiba’s. 

Said R. Ashi: I have related this explanation before R. 
Kahana, and he said to me: Do not say that Rabi inserted the 
above Mishna in accordance with the above Tanaim, and he 
himself did not approve of them, for in reality, in this Mishna 
he explains his own opinion, as we find he did so in the fol- 
lowing: Whence do we know that one is not culpable for a trans- 
gression of which he was aware both at the start and at the end, 
but unaware during the act? From [Lev. v. 2-3]: “‘ Escaped 
his recollection,’’ two times repeated. So R. Agqiba. Rabbi, 
however, maintains it to be unnecessary, as from the expression 
““escaped’”’ it is self-evident that he was once aware of it, and 
further on it reads, ‘‘ he becometh aware,’’ z.e., twice aware, 
once at the start and again at the end. But should you ask to 
what purpose ‘‘ escaped’’ is written twice (I say) once to make 
one liable for the forgetting the defilement, and the second for 
the forgetting the sanctuary. 

(Says the Gemara): From this we find that Rabbi has de- 
clared his own opinion concerning known and unknown. Where 
is such to be found concerning oaths? It is common sense. 
Why, then, does R. Aqiba make one liable for the transgression 
of a past oath? Because he considers extenstons and limitations 
(mentioned in the Scripture), and the same did also Rabbi, as 
we have learned in the following Boraitha. Rabbi said: Our 
first-born male may be redeemed with everything but docu- 
ments; the rabbis, however, maintain that slaves and real estate 
are also excluded (and the reasons are there given thus: Rabbi 
considers extensions and limitations, and the rabbis consider 
generals and particulars in the Scripture). 

Said Rabina to Amamar: Does indeed Rabbi consider exten- 
sions, etc., and not generals, etc.? In the following Boraitha 
we find the reverse; it reads [Deut. xv. 17]: ‘‘ Then shalt thou 
take an awl,’’ but whence do we know that one may do it with 
a thorn, prick, borer, needle or pencil? Therefore it reads: 
‘“‘ Shalt thou take,’’ z.e., everything that is to be taken in hand 
for this purpose. So R. Jose b. Jehudah. Rabbi, however, 
maintains that since an awl is of metal, so must every instrument 
for this purpose be of metal. And to the question, what is the 
point of their difference, we answered that Rabbi considers gen- 
erals and particulars (awl is of metal, etc.), and the R. Jose con- 


8 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


siders extensions, etc., hence, we see that Rabbi considers gen- 
erals and not extensions? Yea; in all other cases Rabbi considers 
generals, but here he considers also extensions for the reason 
explained in the following: The disciples of R. Ismael taught 
[Lev. xi. 9]. In the “‘ water’’ is mentioned twice; this is not 
to be taken as a general and a particular, but as an extension and 
a limitation (this paragraph will be explained in the following 
tracts). But do not the rabbis hold the above theory? Said 
Rabina: In the west it was said in every place in the Scripture 
where the expression of two generals are to be found near each 
other, one may put a particular between them, and derive the 
law of general and particular. 

But now that we come to the conclusion that Rabbi con- 
siders extensions, etc., there will remain a difficulty concerning 
oaths; we must, therefore, say that Rabbi inserted in this Mishna 
the opinion of R. Aqiba, with which he himself does not agree. 

The text said: From the expression “‘ escaped”’ it is self- 
evident that he was aware. Why is it self-evident? We find 
elsewhere the same expression, and no awareness is therein im- 
plied. Said Abayi: Rabbi holds that elementary knowledge is 
considered, z.e., the knowledge one learns in school when yet 
a child (¢.g., he learned that he who toucheth an unclean thing 
becomes defiled). Said R. Papa to him: According to this the- 
ory, how can we find a case in which he was unaware before? 
And he answered: It may be found with him who was captured 
by heathens while he was still an infant, and was brought up by 
them.* 

‘* Originally cognisant.’’ The rabbis taught: Whence do we 
know that the verse speaks of the defilement of the temple and 
its holy offerings? This may be learned from aninference. The 
Scripture warns: One shall not make himself unclean, and he 
who does so shall be punished, and is liable to a sin-offering (for 

unintentional), and both the warning and the punishment speak 
about the temple and its holiness. The same is the case when 
it makes him liable to a sin-offering, it is only in case of entering 
the temple. But perhaps it means heave-offering, to which 
there is also warning and punishment? Nay; we do not find 
a transgression which is under the category of capital punish- 





* The text repeats here what is already translated in tract Sabbath about carry- 
ing on Sabbath which is two divided into four, and also about leprosy, therefore we 
omit it. 


= i 
>= _ 


OT a 





Sh ae Rg Ne a 8 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 9 


ment, to which the liability of a sin-offering attaches, when done 
unintentionally. However, such is the case with a special offer- 
ing; but let him bring a rich and poor offering which is to be 
brought for utterance or witness oath? It reads [Lev. v. 3]: 
Boh, literally im it* to exclude all other things. But perhaps 
it means to exclude the sanctuary to which a rich or poor offer- 
ing does not suffice, and only a special is needed? Said Rabha: 
I apply to Rabbi the saying, ‘‘ He draws water from very deep 
wells,’’ as we have learned in the following Boraitha. Rabbi 
said: I read in the Scripture (in concern with a rich or poor 
offering) a beast; to what purpose, then, is also written a cow? 
(Is it not included in the term beast?) It is for an analogy of 
expressions. Here it reads, “‘an unclean cattle,’’ and further 
on [ibid. vii. 22] the very same expression, which speaks par- 
ticularly about the defilement of the holy offerings; hence, as 
here it speaks of the holy offerings, so does the former expres- 
sion, too. But this concerns the holy offerings only; whence 
do we know that the same is the case with the sanctuary itself? 
From [ibid. xii. 4]: ‘“ Anything hallow shall she not touch, and 
into the sanctuary,’’ etc.; we see, then, that the sanctuary is 
compared to its holiness. 

The sages of Nahardea said in the name of Rabha: There is 
mentioned in relation to peace-offerings three times, defilement. 
And why? One for a general, one for a particular, and one for 
the expression defilement with regard to a rich or poor offering, 
but it does not explain the kind of a defilement; and not know- 
ing what it means, we assumed it to mean the defilement of 
holiness; but now as Rabbi above inferred this from another 
place, we apply this defilement to the sanctuary itself. 

‘* Originally cognisant . . . became aware anew.’ The rabbis 
taught [Lev. xvi. 16]: ‘‘ Shall make an atonement for the holy 
place because of the uncleanness,’’ etc. In this case there can 
be three kinds of defilement: by idolatry, licentiousness, and 
bloodshed, for we find, in regard to idolatry [ibid. xx. 3]: ‘‘ In 
order to defile my sanctuary ’’; concerning licentiousness [ibid. 
Xvili. 30]: ‘‘ Ye shall not defile yourselves therewith ’’; finally, 
concerning bloodshed [Numb. xxxv. 34]: ‘‘ Ye shall not render 
unclean.’’ Lest one say that for all these three defilements the 
he-goat atones, therefore [Lev. xvi. 16]: ‘‘ Mitumoth,’’ literally, 
from the uncleanness of the children of Israel, but not all of 





* Leaser’s translation does not correspond. 


ae THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


them; and as we saw elsewhere that the Scripture has separated 
the defilement of the sanctuary and its holiness from all other 
defilements, we must say that here, also, it means the sanctuary, 
etc. So R. Jehudah. R. Simeon, however, maintains that this 
theory is inferred from the very same place, as it reads, ‘‘ he 
shall make an atonement for the holy place from the unclean- 
ness (mztumoth),’’ consequently it means from the uncleanness 
of the holy place. But lest one say that for every defilement 
which happens to be in the sanctuary the he-goat atones, there- 
fore, further on, ‘* because in all their transgressions, in all their 
sins,’’ it compares intentional transgressions to sin. As to the 
former, offerings do not apply, so, also, does it not to sins, 
which are not under the category of offerings (and which of 
them are under this category? That of which he was aware at 
the start and at the end, but forgot during the act). And 
whence do we know that in a case of which he was aware at the 
start, but not at the end, that the same he-goat makes it pend- 
ing? From “‘in all their sin,’’ z.e., all sins which are under the 
category of a sin-offering. 

The master said: There are three kinds of defilement, etc. 
Let us see how was the case; e.g., idolatry, if intentional, is 
under capital punishment; if unintentional, then the transgressor 
is liable to a sin-offering. The same is the case with licen- 
tiousness: for intentional, capital punishment, and unintentional, 
a sin-offering; and the. same with bloodshed: intentional, by 
capital punishment; unintentional is punished with exile. It 
may be said that in the first two it means that it was done inten- 
tionally but without warning; and concerning bloodshed, if com- 
mitted unintentionally by such a person who cannot be exiled, 
é.g., a high-priest of whom it is said in tract Sanhedrin that he 
cannot be exiled. 

The master said: The he-goat makes it pending. How is 
this to be understood? If it does not atone, what is the use of 
making it pending? Said R. Zera: It means, z.e., if the trans- 
gressor dies then it may be considered that if he dies before he 
becomes aware of it, this sin is not reckoned to him any more. 
Said Rabha to him: In case he dies, the death itself completes 
the atonement; it is the he-goat that saves him from chastise- 
ment before he becomes aware by making it pending. 

‘“‘ Tf he had no antecedent knowledge . .. by the he-goat sacrt- 
fice exteriorly,’’ etc. Let us see; both he-goats are considered 
equal. Why, then, should the inner he-goat not atone also for 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). Ir 


the things the exterior one atones for? And the difference 
would be that if the exterior happened not to be sacrificed at 
all, the interior would do also his atoning? It reads [Exod. 
xxx. 10]: ‘‘ Upon its horns once,’’ z.¢., it atones only one atone- 
ment, but not two. Why should not the exterior atone for 
itself and for the interior also, and the difference would be that 
a defilement happened during the time between the sacrifice of 
the interior and that of the exterior? The verse says ‘‘ once in 
a year,’’ z.e., once, and not twice in a year. But according to 
R. Ismael, who said that to such a case offerings apply, what 
then does the exterior he-goat atone for? For such a case in 
which there was no knowledge at either start or the end, but 
does not for such atone the festival and the new-moon goats? 
He holds with R. Mair, who said that the atonement of all the 
goats are equivalent, as they atone for defilements in the sanc- 
tuary and its holiness, and the equality of the interior and ex- 
terior goats lies that both do not atone for other transgressions 
outside of the sanctuary with its holiness. 

‘* So R. Jehudah.’’ Said Jehudah in the name of Samuel: 
The reason why R. Jehudah of the Mishna so maintains is 
[Numb. xxviii. 15]: ‘“ And one he-goat for a sin-offering unto 
the Lord,’’ z.e., for such a sin of which none is aware but the 
Lord, this he-goat atones. ) 

The schoolmen propounded a question: Does R. Jehudah 
speak only of such a case which could never be known, but not 
such which must come to knowledge at the end (¢.g., if there 
were witnesses who saw him entering the sanctuary while he 
was defiled, of which they are bound to inform him thereafter) 
and which is atoned by the exterior he-goat on the day of atone- 
ment; or even of such a case which so long as it is not known 
to him at the present time, is considered that nobody knows of 
it but the Lord? Come and hear the following: For sucha case 
in which there was no knowledge at the start and the end, and 
also for such a transgression that finally the transgressor must 
be informed of, the festival and new-moon he-goats atone; such 
is the decree of R. Jehudah. 

““ But not of the new-moon.’’ Said R. Elazar in the name of 
R. Oshia: The reason of R. Simeon’s theory is thus [Lev. x. 
17|: ‘‘ And he had given it to you to bear the iniquity,”’ etc., 
which applies to the new-moon he-goat, and by an analogy of 
the expression ‘‘ iniquity,’’ which is also found concerning the 
golden plate on the forehead of the high-priest [Exod. xxviii. 


12 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


38], it may be said that as the latter atones only for bodily defile- 
ment, so also the he-goat in question does. And lest one say 
that as the golden plate of the high-priest atones only for such 
things which come on the altar, so also should the he-goat in 
question; it reads here, ‘‘ the iniquity of the congregation,’’* 
but not of the things of the altar. 

““R. Meter says: All goat-sacrifices are equivalent,’’ etc. Said 
R. Hama b. R. Hanina: The reason of R. Meier’s theory is 
that in some places it is written “‘ the he-goat,’’ and in others 
‘* and the he-goat ’’ (the letter vakve, prefixed to he-goat, means 
and), and this intends to signify all the he-goats with regard to 
their atoning power. But this is correct only where the vahve zs 
written, but how is it concerning the day of Pentecost and the 
day of atonement where the word he-goat is not written with a 
vahve ? Therefore said R. Jonah, it reads [Numb. xxix. 39]: 
‘““ These shall ye prepare unto the Lord on your appointed fes- 
tivals,’’ whence all the festivals on which a he-goat is sacrificed 
are equal to one another. But is not there the he-goat on new- 
moon, which is not a festival? In reality the new-moon is also 
called festival, as Aabayi said elsewhere: The month of Thamuz 
in the year when the temple was destroyed, was a full month of 
thirty days, as it reads [Lament. i. 15]: ‘‘ He hath called an 
assembly (so0éd),’’ which moéd means literally festival (and the 
thirtieth day of the month is new-moon).t 

R. Johanan said: R. Mair admits that the interior he-goat 
does not atone for what all other he-goats do, nor do the latter 
atone for what it does; it does not atone for what the others do, 
because it is written ‘‘ once,’’ which signifies that it atones but 
for one sin and not for two; on the other hand, they do not 
atone for what it does, as it reads “‘ once a year,’’ which signi- 
fies that such an atonement takes place only once a year. There 
is a Boraitha in support to this: For the case where there was 
no knowledge at either start or end, and for that where there 
was none at the start but at the end, also for that where a clean 
one has consumed defiled food, the he-goats of the festivals, of 
the new-moons, and the exterior he-goat of the day of atone- 
ment atone; so R. Meier. We see here that he left out the 
interior he-goat and also what it atones for. 





* The text discusses again, why should not the golden plate atone also for that 
which the he-goat does, and vice,versa? and as it is almost the same which was 
said above, we omit it. 

+ See Taanith, p. 86. 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 13 


‘* R. Simeon used to say: He-goats of the new-moons,’’ etc. It 
is correct that the new-moon’s he-goat does not atone for what 
the festival’s do, as it reads ‘‘ a sin,’’ which means one sin, but 
not two, but why should not that of the festivals atone for what 
the new-moon’s does? Because of the expression “‘ its,’’ which 
signifies its iniquity but not that of another. Furthermore, the 
festival’s (goats) do not atone for what that of the day of atone- 
ment does, because it reads ‘‘ once a year,’’ which means such 
be only once; nor does that of the day of atonement atone for 
what the festivals’ do, because it is written ‘‘ once,’’ which 
means it atones once but not twice; and although this is written 
but concerning the interior he-goat, yet there is another place 
where it is called the sin-offering of the day of atonement in 
which the interior is included; and it has been already said 
above that in this respect the exterior is equalled to the interior. 
And R. Simeon b. Jehudah, who said that the he-goat of the 
festivals does atone for what the new-moon’s atones, does not 
hold the extension “‘ it’’ mentioned above. 

Ula said in the name of R. Johanan: Daily offerings which 
were not necessary for the congregation any more, may be re- 
deemed, although they have no blemish; Rabba sat down and 
repeated this Halakha. Said R. ’Hisda to him: Who will listen 
to you and to R. Johanan your master, for, whereto vanished 
their sanctity? And his answer was: Where, indeed, do you 
think it went to? Is not there a Mishna (Shekalim, 4, e): The 
sanctification of the incense on hand was then transferred to 
money, etc., and there was no question raised as to where the 
sanctity went to? Whereupon R. 'Hisda rejoined: Incense is 
incomparable, as it was not sanctified in a holy vessel, but by 
the money paid. (See Appendix.) 

‘“‘ For intentional defiling,’’ etc. Whence is this deduced? 
From what the rabbis taught [Lev. xvi. 16]: ‘‘ And he shall 
make an atonement for the holy place, because of the unclean- 
ness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions 
in all their sins.’’ Transgressions (P’skaim) imply intention, as 
[II Kings, iii. 7]: ‘‘ King of Moab hath rebelled (Pasha) against 
me,’’ and [ibid. viii. 22]: ‘‘ Then did Libnah revolt’’; on the 
other hand, sin implies unintention, as [Lev. iv. 7]: ‘‘ If any 
person do sin (Zechtah) through ignorance.”’ 

‘“ For other transgressions, etc... . lentent and rigorous.”’ 
Let us see; does not lenient mean positive and negative com- 
mandments, while rigorous, such to which orath and capital 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


punishment apply? And again, ‘‘ known’’ means intentional, 
unknown, erroneous; why then the repetition? Said R. Jehu- 
dah: It intends to say that for all other transgressions found in 
the Torah, be they lenient or rigorous, be they committed inten- 
tionally or unintentionally and in latter case with knowledge or 
ignorance thereof, atonement is effected by the he-goat. And 
lenient are the positive and negative commandments, and the rig- 
orous are those to which Korath and capital punishment apply. 
But again, how can there be a transgression of a positive com- 
mandment? If the transgressor has not repented [Prov. xxi. 
27|: ‘‘ The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination ’’; and if 
he has, why the specific on the day of atonement, when any day 
is good, as the Boraitha teaches: When one transgresses a posi- 
tive commandment and repents it, he is atoned for before yet 
leaving the place. Hereupon said R. Zera: It speaks of no 
repentance, and our Mishna is in accordance with Rabbi, who 
holds that the day of atonement atones for each of the trans- 
gressions found in the Torah, regardless of antecedent repent- 
ance; except him who shakes off the yoke, explains the Torah 
not according to its real meaning and destroys the cove- 
nant in his flesh; as for him, the day of atonement atones, 
provided he first repented, otherwise it does not. Rabbi bases 
this, his opinion, on [Numb. xv. 31]: “‘ Because the word of the 
Lord hath he despised,’’ which means, he who has shaken off 
the yoke of, and misinterpreted, the Torah, ‘‘ and His command- 
ments hath he broken,’’ which means, he who has destroyed the 
covenant in his flesh [ibid. 30]: ‘‘ Hicoreth Ticoreth,’’ meaning 


literally ‘‘ cut off, shall be cut off,’’ z.¢e., cut off before, shall be 


cut off after, the day of atonement; but lest one say the same is 
the case with him who has repented, it reads ‘* the iniquity is 
therein,’’ whence it is to infer that only in case the iniquity 
is upon him (but not after the repentance when the iniquity is 
gone). The rabbis, however, explain this verse thus: “‘ Cut off”’ 
in this world and “‘ shall be cut off.’’ in the world to come; and as 
to the iniquity, it means if he die upon repenting, the death 
completes the atonement. 

But how can this Mishna be in accordance with Rabbi, when 
the second part, ‘‘ There is no difference between the Israelite, 
priest and anointed high-priest,’’ is only the view of R. Jehu- 
dah; hence, the first part should, too, rather be in accordance 
with the latter? Said R. Joseph: The whole Mishna is the 
opinion of Rabbi who agrees with R. Jehudah concerning the 


Se ae pe 











TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 15 


iatter part only. Said Abayi to him: Does the master mean to 
say that Rabbi agrees with R. Jehudah, while R. Jehudah does 
not agree with Rabbi, or he does agree, and that you say the 
former is only because it is customary that the disciple agrees 
with his master? And he answered: I am very specific in this 
expression; Rabbi upholds R. Jehudah, while R. Jehudah does 
not agree with him with regard to the first part of the Boraitha; 
as we have learned in the following Boraitha: Lest one say that 
the day of atonement atones for both repenters and non-repent- 
ers, there is an analogy in the following. A sin and trespass 
offerings atone as well as the day of atonement, and as the 
former atones for but them who repent, so does also the day of 
atonement; but lest one say there is a considerable difference 
between them, as the said offerings atone only for sinning by 
error, while the day of atonement atones even for an intentional 
act, whence it might atone also for non-repenters, therefore it 
reads [Lev. xxiii. 27]: ** But . . . it,’’ which excludes non- 
repenters. Now, this Boraitha is found in Siphrah, and accord- 
ing to tradition all the anonymous Boraithas of Siphrah are in 
accordance with R. Jehudah.* 

““ No difference between an Israelite,’’ etc. Does not the 
Mishna contradict itself by saying here there is no difference, 
etc., and immediately hereafter asking what is the difference 
between, etc.? Said R. Jehudah: It is to be explained thus, all 
the above-mentioned persons are atoned for by the exported he- 
goats for all other transgressions without any difference; a 
difference between person and person arises, however, with 
regard to the bullock that atones only for the priests in the case 
of defilement of the temple and its holiness; and this is only in 
accordance with R. Jehudah of the following Boraitha; it reads 
[Lev. xvi. 31]: “‘ And he shall make an atonement for the 
sanctum sanctissimum’’ means the innermost holy chamber; 
‘‘ and for the tabernacle of the congregation ’’ means the whole © 
temple; ‘‘ and for the altar,’’ literally; ‘* shall he make an atone- 
ment ’’ means the courtyards of the temple; ‘‘ and also for the 
priests,’’ literally; “‘ and for all the people of the congregation ”’ 
means Israelite; ‘‘ shall he make the atonement ’’ means the Le- 
vites; hence, they all are equally atoned for by the exported he- 
goat for all transgressions but that of defilement. Such is the 





* There is a contradiction in the Boraithas of Siphrah, which will be treated of 
in Tract Krithoth. 


16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


dictum of R. Jehudah; R. Simeon, however, maintains that as 
the blood of the interior he-goat atones for the defilement of the 
temple by the Israelites, so does the blood of the bullock atone 
for the defilement of the temple by the priests; likewise, as the 
confession of sins over the exported he-goat atones for all other 
transgressions by Israelites, so does the confession over the bul- 
lock atone for the priests in all other transgressions. And as to 
the above deduction that all are equally atoned for, it means 
that they are equal, in as much as the category of atonement is 
concerned. 

Who is the Tana of the following Boraitha? It reads [ibid. 
xvi. 15]: ‘‘ He ‘shall kill the goat of the sin-offering of the 
people,’’ which means that which does not atone for the priests; 
but what does atone for them? Aaron’s own bullock, because 
it is assigned to atone for his house also. And lest one say 
that they should not be atoned for even thereby, as the phrase 
‘‘of him’’ is used concerning Aaron’s bullock, then the priests 
who must be atoned for would remain without all atonement, 
we Say it is better they should be atoned for by Aaron's bullock, 
which, atoning for all the house of Aaron, is eo facto no longer 
‘of him’”’ individually, than to be atoned for by the interior 
he-goat, which does not include any other thing. As to the pos- 
sible objection that ‘‘ his house’’ is meant to exclude other 
priests, there is a verse [Ps. cxxxv. I9, 20]: ‘‘O house of 
Aaron, bless the Lord; O house of Levi, . . . ye that fear the 
Lord, bless the Lord,’’ and this includes all the priesthood. 
There is a Boraitha relating that the disciples of R. Ismael 
taught: Such is the custom of the divine attribute of justice 
that the righteous atone for the wicked and not that the wicked 
atone for another wicked. 











cre pret ect i a a i i ee et le me Mt tai ee i a ee ae ei ee ae a ee he ee. 5 it eee ee ee 


CHAPTER II. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE COGNITION OF DEFILE- 
MENT; ITS TWO KINDS, SUBDIVIDED INTO FOUR, AND THEIR 
ILLUSTRATIONS.—THE CEREMONIAL ACCOMPANYING THE CONSE- 
CRATION OF THE EXTENSIONS BUILT IN THE COURT-YARD OF THE 
TEMPLE, AND IN JERUSALEM IN GENERAL.—ILLUSTRATIONS OF 
POSITIVE COMMANDMENTS THAT DO OR DO NOT ENTAIL LIABILITY. 


MISHNA J/.: The cognition of uncleanness is of two kinds 
subdivided into four—viz.: when one after having become un- 
clean perceives it and then forgets all about it, knowing, how- 
ever, that what he eats is holy; or when he was ignorant of 
the fact that the food is holy, being, however, aware of his un- 
cleanness; or, finally, when both facts having escaped his memory 
he ate from the holy food without being cognizant thereof, but 
learning it after he had eaten, he is to bring arich or poor offer- 
ing. If he became unclean and knew it, forgot it afterward, but 
was fully conscious that he was in the sanctuary or he forgot 
that it was the sanctuary but knew his uncleanness; or, both 
facts having escaped his cognition, he enters the sanctuary with- 
out knowing it to be such and learns this fact only after he has 
gone out, he is to bring a foregoing offering. 

It is immaterial whether the unclean one enters the courtyard 
(of the temple) or its extension, since extensions are added to 
both city and courtyard (of the temple) only in the presence of 
a king, prophet, Urzm and 7umzm, and of the grand Sanhedrim 
consisting of seventy-one, two thanks-offerings and the chorus; 
the whole court of justice steps forth, followed by the two 
thanks-offerings and then all Israel; the inner bread is con- 
sumed, the outer one is burnt. But whatever has not been con- 
structed in this manner, does not entail guilt upon him who 
being unclean enters it. 

If one having become unclean in the courtyard of the temple 
forgot it, remembering, however, that he is in the holy temple; 
or forgot that he is in the temple but was aware of his unclean- 
ness; or, both facts having escaped his cognition, he madea 


17 


18 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


bow or was lingering there for an interval taken up by the 
making of a bow, or went out by the longer way, he is guilty; 
but if by the short way, he is not guilty. This is a positive 
command concerning the holy temple, for disobeying of which 
one is not guilty. 

And which is the positive command concerning menstrua- 
tion that entails guilt? If one being in relation with a clean 
woman is told by her: I have just become unclean, and there- 
upon immediately interrupts his relation with her, he is guilty, 
for separation from her affords him as much pleasure as his 
coming to her. R. Eliezar says: One is guilty for forgetting 
the cause of his-uncleanness to have been a reptile, but is not 
guilty for forgetting (that he is in) the holy temple. R. Aquiba 
says (it reads): If he has become ignorant of being unclean, 
whence it follows that he is guilty of obliviousness as regards 
uncleanness but not as regards the holy temple. R. Ismael says: 
The phrase ‘‘ it will escape his memory’’ is repeated twice to 
declare one guilty in both cases: for forgetting his uncleanness 
as well as for forgetting the sanctuary. 

GEMARA: Said R. Papa to Abayi: It states ‘‘ two divided 
into four,’’ whereas it ought to be “* into six ’’—viz.: the cogni- 
tion of defilement of the holy food, and of the sanctuary, in each 
case antecedent and subsequent. Answered Abayi: According 
to your theory there ought to be eight subdivisions, as cognition 
of defilement may be accompanied with ignorance of holy food 
and of the sanctuary. Rejoined R. Papa: In reality there are 
eight; the Mishna, however, does not count the first four, which 
are not at all found in the Scripture (z.¢., the Scripture finds one 
liable, ¢.g., for eating illegal fat irrespective of his antecedent 
cognition or ignorance of its being illegal; he must then bring a 
sin-offering after becoming aware of the fact, hence, of the pre- 
ceding cognition there is no mention in the Scripture). 

‘‘Tt 7s immaterial . . . enters the courtyard,’’ etc. Whence 
is this ceremony attending the extension of courtyards deduced? 
Said R. Shimi b. Hyye, from [Exod. xxv. 9]: ‘‘ In accordance 
with all that I show thee, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the 
pattern of all the instruments thereof, even so shall ye make 
it,’’ which last phrase means for the future generations (other- 
wise this phrase would be superfluous).* 

‘‘When two thanks-offerings,’’ etc. There is a Boraitha that 





* Rabha’s objection thereto is already translated in Sanhedrim, 


Se LE ee aE 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 19 


the two thanks-offerings mean their bread and not flesh. Whence 
is this deduced? Said R. ’Hisda, from [Neh. xii. 31]: ‘‘ And 
I have prepared two large thanks-offerings.’’ Now, what signi- 
fies the attribute ‘‘ large’’ ? Shall we assume that it means liter- 
ally, then it should read bullocks! Or should it indicate merely 
that of their kind they were the large ones; now, does it make a 
difference before heaven? Does not a Boraitha state: Concern- 
ing a cattle burnt-offering it reads [Lev. i. 13]: “‘ Sweet savor 
unto the Lord’’; the same expression concerns a fowl burnt- 
offering [ibid., ibid. 17]; likewise concerning a meal offering 
the same term is used [ibid. ii. 2], which is intended to teach 
that before heaven all offerings, liberal as well as poor, are 
equal, provided they are offered to gratify the heavenly Fa- 
ther? It remains, therefore, to assume that the attribute, 
large, means simply the greater part of the thanks-offerings, 
z.e., the leaven bread, as there is a Mishna teaching that the 
thanks-offering was five Jerusalem saahs large, which are equal 
to six country saahs, making two eiphas each of three saahs_ 
altogether twenty tens, ten of which were leaven and the other 
ten of matzah. The matzah, however, consisted of three kinds: 
cakes, wafers, and of what was sodden (hence, the leaven cakes 
were threefold those of the matzah). 

Rami b. ’Hama said: The courtyard was sanctified with the 
remains of a meal-offering only, in order to make it equal to the 
City of Jerusalem itself—viz.: as the rule about the things eat- 
able within the city renders them invalid if carried outside the 
city, so also with things eatable within the courtyard, they 
become invalid out side of this yard (and a meal-offering was to 
be eaten only within the courtyard). Now, lest one say that as 
the city is to be sanctified with the leaven cakes of the thanks- 
offering, so also the remains of the meal offering sanctifying the 
courtyard be of leaven, the answer would be that there can be no 
meal offering of leaven, since it reads [Lev. vi. 10]: ‘‘ It shall 
not be baked leaven, as their portion,’’ etc., which Resh Lakish 
interprets to mean that not even a portion thereof be baked 
leaven; hence, the above supposition is impossible. But again, 
why not sanctify with the two breads of Pentecost which are 
leaven? Nay;this cannot be admitted either; because how can 
this be carried out? Supposing the courtyard to be built before 
Pentecost, then the breads becoming holy only upon the slaugh- 
tering of the two lambs, are not yet capable of sanctifying; fur- 
thermore, the sanctification must take place on the day of 


20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


completing the building, hence, the sanctification on the holiday 
is out of question; nor can it be supposed that the temple be 
finished on the holiday, since there is a rule that the temple 
must not violate holidays; finally, to leave the two breads for 
the morrow of the holiday is not feasible, for they would become 
invalid in being left over night. But why not leave the finishing 
until sunset, when the lambs are slaughtered and the breads be- 
come holy, so that the sanctification could be carried out? 
There is a tradition that building the temple must not take place 
in the night time; as Abayi said: We know that the building of 
the temple must not be completed in the night, from [Numb. ix. 
15]: ‘‘ And on the day that tabernacle,’’ etc., hence on the day, 
but not on the night. 

‘* By the chorus,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: The orchestra of 
the thanks-offering consisted of violins, fifes, trumpets on every 
corner as well as on every elevated stone in Jerusalem and used 
to play [Psalm xxx. 2]: ‘‘ I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou 
hast lifted me,’’ etc., and also [ibid., 91]. Some call this latter 
song JVegaim (plagues) because of verse [ibid., 10] in which it 
reads, ‘‘ Nor shall any plague,’’ etc; others call it Pegaim, be- 
cause of verse [ibid., 7]: “‘ There shall fall at thy side a thou- 
sand.’’ They used to sing this song from verse I to Io inclusive, 
and also the whole of Chap. III. of Psalms. 3 

R. Jehoshua b. Levi used to say all the verses mentioned 
above before going to bed. But this seems hardly credible, as 
he himself said somewhere that none should cure one’s self with 
the verses of the Torah. The answer is that protecting and 
curing are two different things, and he prohibited to say such 
verses over a wound.* : 

“* Followed by the two thanks-offerings,’’ etc. Shall we as- 
sume that the thanks-offerings follow the court, when we read 
[Ne’hem. xii. 31, 32]: “‘ Two thanks-offerings . . . after them 
walked Hosha’yah,’’ etc.? Nay; it means thus: They were all 
walking, the court being behind the offerings. In what order 
were the two offerings carried? R. ’Hyye and R. Simeon b. 
Rabbi differ concerning this: according to one they were one 
opposite the other, while according to the other they were placed 
one behind the other. According to the former opinion the one 
offering that was to be sacrificed on the inner altar was brought 
near the wall, while according to the latter opinion the one that 





* See Sanhedrim. 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 21 


was near to the people of the court was sacrificed. R. ‘ohanan, 
however, said: It was left to the prophet to decide which of the 
offerings was to be burnt and which to be eaten. 

‘* But whatever has not been constructed,’ etc. It was taught: 
R. Huna says: A// the details were essential in the construction, 
while R. Na’hman said: Whatever was not constructed with one 
of them, etc. R. Huna bases his theory on the fact that the 
first sanctification sanctified for the future, too, while Ezra’s 
sanctification was but a kind of memorial. On the other hand 
R. Na’hman holds that the first sanctification was confined only 
to the present and Ezra sanctified for his time although there 
were no Urim and Tumim. Rabha objected to R. Na’hman 
from our Mishna which plainly states, ‘‘ in this manner,’’ z.¢., 
with all the details specified there; whereupon he answered: 
Read there “‘ whatever was not constructed with one of them.’’ 

Come and hear another objection: Aba Saul said, there were 
two Bitzin on the olive mountain, an upper and a lower one; 
the lower one was sanctified strictly in the manner prescribed by 
the Mishna, while the upper one was sanctified only by the as- 
cendants from the exile, in the absence of both king and Urim 
and Tumim. The lower one, whose sanctification was com- 
plete, common people used to enter and consume there their 
lenient holy food, but not second tithe; scholars, however, used 
to consume there both. In the upper one of the incomplete 
sanctification the common people used to consume the lenient 
holiness, while the scholars did not partake there of anything. 
But why did not they sanctify it completely? Because the com- 
plete sanctification needs a king, etc., as prescribed by the 
Mishna, and such were not at that time. But why, then, was it 
at all considered a part of Jerusalem? Because being a suburb 
of Jerusalem it was easily accessible (hence, it is obvious that 
sanctification cannot be complete unless performed in the manner 
prescribed by the Mishna)? Concerning this matter the Tanaim 
of the following Boraitha differ. Ismael b. Josh said: To what 
purpose did the rabbis enumerate all the cities surrounded by 
walls from the time of Jehoshua b. Nun? Because the ascend- 
ants of the exile being placed in these cities, sanctified them; 
the first sanctification, however, was abolished when the land 
ceased to be that of Israel. R. Ismael thus holds that the first 
sanctification was good only for the present, but not for the 
future, and this would meet with a contradiction in the follow- 
ing. R. Ismael b. Josh said: Were, then, only these cities? 


22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Is it not written [Deut. vi. 4, 5]: ‘‘ Sixty cities . . . all these 
were fortified cities,’’ why, then, had the sages enumerated 
them? Because the ascendants of the exile were placed in 
them; and not only to these cities, but also to all cities which 
were, according to tradition, surrounded with walls at the time 
of Jehoshua, apply all the commandments imposed upon such 
cities; for the first sanctification has sanctified them for the 
future also; whence it is evident that R. Ismael contradicts 
himself. The answer is that one of these Boraithas was said not 
by R. Ismael, but by R. Elazar b. Josh, as the following Bor- 
aitha states, it reads [Levit. xxv. 30]: ‘‘ Lo choma,’’ meaning 
literally no wall’; but according to the traditional reading it is 
Lo-choma, meaning ‘‘ it has a wall,’’ z.¢., though it has no wall 
now but was walled at the time Israel entered Palestine. 

‘““In the courtyard and forgot it,’’ etc. Whence is this de- 
duced? Said R. Elazar [Numb. xix. 20]: ‘‘ Because the sanc- 
tuary of the Lord hath he defiled,’ and [ibid., 13]: ‘‘ Hath 
defiled the tabernacle of the Lord’’; now, as there in so neces- 
sity of two verses for the inner defilement, one should be applied 
to the outer one. But are, indeed, the two verses superfluous? 
Are they not both needed for what we have learned in the fol- 
lowing Boraitha in the name of R. Elazar: Why have two verses 
to mention both sanctuary and tabernacle, was not one suffi- 
cient? The answer is: If only tabernacle were mentioned, it 
could be accounted for by the fact of its being annointed with 
the holy oil, which was not the case with the temple, and there- 
fore no liability is attached to defilement of latter, on the other 
hand, if only the holy temple were mentioned, the reason would 
be that it was sanctified once forever, which was not the case 
with the tabernacle; hence, the necessity of both the verses? R. 
Elazar found difficulty to see the reason for using two names, 
sanctuary and tabernacle, since elsewhere these two names are 
used synonymously; he, therefore, infers therefrom his two 
foregoing conclusions. His statement, however, that the temple 
is called tabernacle is correct, from [Lev. xxv. 11]: “‘ And will 
set my tabernacle (mzshkont) among you ’’; but where is it found 
that tabernacle is called temple? In [Exod. xxv. 8]: “‘ And 
they shall make me a sanctuary and I will dwell in it’’; and 
verse 9 says: ‘‘ I show thee the pattern of the tabernacle.”’ 

‘* He made a bow or was lingering,’’ etc. From this it may 
be said that the bowing must also take acertain time. Said 
Rabha: This is so only when, while bowing, he turned his face 











TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 23 


to the outside, but not if to the inside of the temple; and the 
Mishna is to be interpreted thus: if he made the bow toward the 
inside or turned his face toward the outside for a certain inter- 
val; and here is an illustration: Suppose he kneels only, then no 
time is needed; but if he bows, 2z.¢., falls down and stretches his 
hands and feet, then a certain time must be taken up. And how 
long is this time interval? R. Itz’hak b. Na’hmeni, with whom 
was Simeon b. Pazi, according to others vice versa, or Simeon b. 
Na’hmeni, one says, it is so long as would take to say this verse 
[II Chron. vii. 3}: ‘‘ And all the children of Israel were looking 
on as the fire came down, and the glory of the Lord was resting 
upon the house; and they kneeled down with their faces to the 
ground upon the pavement, and prostrated themselves, and 
gave thanks unto the Lord for he is good; because unto ever- 
lasting endureth his kindness’’; while the other says: Only from 
‘they kneeled ’’ until the end of the verse. The rabbis taught: 
Kidah is bowing to the ground face to the earth, as [I Kings, i. 
31]: ‘‘ Then did Bath-sheba bow,’’ etc.; kneeling is to stand 
upon the knees, as [ibid. viii. 54]: ‘‘ From kneeling on his 
knees ’’; finally, bowing is prostrating one’s self, as [Gen. xxxvii. 
10|: ‘“ To bow down ourselves to thee to the earth.’’ 

“Tf by the short way he ts not guilty.’’ Rabha said: On the 
short way even if he kept on going the whole day the toe of one 
foot touching the heel of the other, he is free. He, however, 
propounded a question: If his walk was interrupted every time, 
must these intervals be added and counted or not? Now, why 
does not Rabha decide his question by his own doctrine from 
above? Because above he treats of the case done without inter- 
ruption. Abayi asked Rabba: If he walked through the long 
way so quickly, as it takes no longer than by the short way, 
what then? Is the time essential and then he is free, or is the 
way essential and then he is liable? He answered: The long 
way cannot be made shorter by contracting the time of walk- 
ing it. 

R. Oshia said: I would like to say something, but am afraid 
of my colleagues; if one enters a leprous house backwards, 
although all his body was already in the house except his nose, 
he remains clean, as [Lev. xiv. 46]: ‘‘ And he who goeth into 
the house,’’ etc., means going in in the ordinary way, but not 
backwards; now, the reason of my hesitating is that my col- 
leagues may, on the basis of the latter quotation, say that even 
when all his body, nose, too, is already in the house he is clean. 


24 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Said Rabba: If the whole body was in, he should not be worse 
than vessels in such a house, of which it reads [ibid. 36]: ‘‘ That 
all shall not be made unclean.’’ There is a Boraitha supporting 
R. Oshia: On the roofs of the temple no holy of holy food must 
be consumed, no lenient holies must be slaughtered there, and 
he who, while unclean, enters the temple by these roofs is not 
culpable, as [ibid. xii. 4]: ‘“ And into the sanctuary shall she 
not come’’ means the coming in in the ordinary way. 

“‘ This ts a positive command concerning the holy temple,’’ etc. 
What is the standpoint of the Tana from which he says “‘ this 
is’’? He refers to a statement in the Mishna in Horioth 
(Mishna, I. ): There is no liability attached to a positive and 
negative commandment, etc., regarding which our Tana says: 
This is the positive commandment to which liability is not at- 
tached; but where, then, is a positive command entailing liabil- 
ity? Itis‘* the having of intercourse with a woman ’’ mentioned 
in the Mishna. 

It was taught: Abayi said in the name of R. Hyya b. Rabh, 
in this last case the transgressor is liable to twice stripes: one 
for the intercourse, and one for the separation. So also said 
Rabha in the name of Samuel b. Shila, quoting R. Huna. 
Rabba, however, deliberating on this point, said: Let us see 
how was the case; if it treats of a scholar who had relation with 
his wife at the time she usually gets her menses, then he is 
justly culpable for the intercourse as for an unintentional offence, 
as he thought he will finish before, and for the separation, which 
act is with him as a scholar an intentional one, he is not liable 
to stripes (as such an act entails Korath); on the other hand, if 
it treats of an ignorant, why should he be liable twice? Is this 
not a case analogous to that where one consumed twice illegal 
fat the size of an olive in one forgetfulness, when he is culpable 
only once? And should you say that the transgressor acted so 
not at the usual time of menstruation, then, if he be a scholar 
he is not liable at all, since the intercourse was had innocently, 
while as regards separation it is here, too, an intentional act; if, 
however, he be an ignorant, he is culpable only once, z.¢., for 
the separation! Said Rabha: It treats of a time near to the 
menstruation, and of him who is a scholar and is aware that one 
must not have intercourse at such a time, but not that separa- 
tion is prohibited (he is culpable twice: for the intercourse, 
because though aware that he must not have, he may none the 
less have thought that he will finish it before the menses ensue; 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 25 


and for the separation, the prohibition of which was unknown 
to him). Rabha said further: Both the acts we find treated of 
in Mishnaioth; concerning separation in our Mishna, and con- 
cerning the intercourse in Tract Nidah, as follows: If blood be 
found on his shirt the two are unclean and liable to a sin- 
offering. 

The master says: Immediate separation entails culpability. 
How then should he behave? Said R. Huna in the name of 
Rabh: He should support himself on the tips of his fingers until 
phallus moretur and then separate himself. 

It was taught: R. Jonathan b. Lequnia asked his brother, 
R. Simeon, where is the warning against having intercourse with 
a menstruant woman? In answer he took some dry mud and 
threw it upon him, saying: Is it not plainly stated in [Lev. xviii. 
19|? Whereupon he rejoined: I mean to ask where is the warn- 
ing against separating one’s self from her who gets her menses 
in the time of intercourse? Said ’Hiskia, from [ibid. xv. 24]: 
‘‘ And if any man should lie with her, and the uncleanness of 
her separation come upon him,”’ etc., which means even when 
he separates from her when the menses ensue during the inter- 
course. But again, here we find only the positive command: 
‘* He shall be unclean seven days’’ [ibid.]; where, then, is the 
negative command against separating one’s self? Said R. Papa: 
The above-cited verse [ibid. xviii. 19]: “‘ Shalt thou not ap- 
proach (7zkrad)’’ means also thou shalt not separate thyself, as 
[Isa. Ixv. 5] uses the word K’7vad’ to mean separating, so does 
there ¢7krab’ mean separate. 

The rabbis taught [Lev. v. 31]: ‘“‘ And ye shall separate the 
children of Israel from their uncleanness,’’ whence you derive 
the warning that the children of Israel should separate them- 
selves from their wives near the period of menstruation; so R. 
Jashia. And for how long? Said Rabha: For twelve hours. 
R. Johanan said in the name of R. Simeon b. Jo’hai: He who 
does not separate from his wife at the said period, his children 
even if equal to the sons of Aaron, will die; as after the above- 
cited verse and verse 33 follows the mention of the death of 
Aaron’s children. R. ’Hyya b. Aha said in the name of R. 
Johanan: He who does separate himself for that period will be 
rewarded with male children, as [ibid. xi. 47: ‘‘ To distinguish 
between the clean and unclean,”’ is followed by [ibid. xii. 2]: 
‘“If awoman ... and born a male child.’’ R. Jehoshua b. 
Levi added: He will be rewarded with sons who will be fit to 


26 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


decide law questions, as it reads [ibid. x. 10, 11]: ‘‘ So that ye 
may be able to distinguish, . . . to teach.’’ R. Benjamin b. 
Japheth said in the name of R. Elazar: He who sanctifies him- 
self during the intercourse will be rewarded with male children, 
as [ibid. xi. 44]: ‘‘ Ye shall sanctify yourselves,’’ etc., which 
chapter is followed by verse [ibid. xii. 2]. 

‘A reptile,’’ etc. What is the point of their difference? 
Said ’Hiskia: A reptile and a carcass; according to R. Eliezer 
he must exactly know the cause of his defilement, whether rep- 
tile or carcass, while R. Agiba maintains that the knowledge, 
and not the exact cause, of his defilement is necessary. And 
so also was this point explained by Ula. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ If there were two paths one of which 
was unclean (but it was not certain which one), and one passed 
through one of them entering, however, the temple after pass- 
ing through the other path, too, he is liable; if, however, after 
passing the first path he entered the temple by forgetting and 
on becoming aware therof he performed the sprinkling and took 
a legal bath, and then passed the other path and again entered 
the sanctuary by forgetting, he is liable. R. Simeon, however, 
declares him free. On the other hand, R. Simeon b. Jehudah 
holds him, in the name of R. Simeon, free even in the first 
case.’ How is this last decision to be understood? In the 
first case where he passes the ¢wo paths there is no doubt that 
he passed an unclean one, how, then, can he be free? Said 
Rabha: The decision concerns a case where he, having passed 
both paths, forgets, enters the temple, and thereafter recollects 


his passing through but one of the paths; and the point of differ- . 


ence here is that the first Tana quotes R. Simeon as holding that 
partial cognition is considered as the whole, which R. b. Jehudah 
in his name denies. But why does the Boraitha hold liable him 
who has performed sprinkling, etc.? Is not here the cognition 
concerning a doubtful case and hence he should not be liable? 
Said R. Johanan: Here the Tana regards the doubtful cognition 
asa certain one., Resh Lakish, however, said: This Boraitha 
is in accordance with R. Ismael, who holds that antecedent cog- 
nition is not requisite.* 





* The further discussion will appear in Tract Kerithoth. 


be See oe 


= 8 Os ag teed be ie 














CHATPLER TIT. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE OATH-TRANSGRESSION 
CONSIDERED AS REFERRING TO BOTH PAST AND FUTURE,—THE 
DETERMINATION OF THE SIZE OR QUANTITY OF THE OBJECT 
REGARDING WHICH THE OATH IS MADE.—THE WORDING OF THE 
OATH.—IS OR IS NOT DRINKING INCLUDED IN EATING (TO WHICH 
THE OATH REFERS) AND vice versa.—DOES OR DOES NOT THE 
REPEATED STATING OF THE OATH ENTAIL A SEPARATE LIABILITY. 
—TO WHAT ACTS OR WORDS THE OATH RELATES,—OATHS MADE 
BY COMPULSION.—OATHS CONCERNING THE FULFILLING OR IGNOR- 
ING OF A COMMANDMENT. 


MISHNA /.: There are two kinds of oaths subdivided into 
four—viz.: I swear that I will eat or will not eat; that I did or 
did not eat. If upon making the oath, I will not eat, he does 
eat, and be it but a minimum, he is guilty; so R. Agqiba. 
Whereupon he was questioned: Where do we find a similar case 
that one be guilty for a minimum, so that this one be declared 
guilty? He replied: Where do we find that one must bring an 
offering for mere talk, as this one does talk and brings an 
offering? 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: ‘‘ The expression 1/70’ta of 
(Numb. xxxvii.] is considered an oath, and also the word J/ssor 
is considered such; and what prohibition attaches to this last 
form of an oath? If you decide that /ssor is an oath, liability 
is attached to its transgression.’’ Now, how is this to be under- 
stood? Does not the Boraitha state expressly that /ssor zs an 
oath? Said Abayi: It means to say thus: The expression 1/76’ ta 
is an oath, and if one says: This object is /ssory to me as the 
first, and this third object be to me as the second, it is in such 
a case that, if it be decided that the making of an oath ona 
thing by comparing‘it to the first one zs an oath, the second one is 
prohibited (¢.g., if one says: I swear not to eat this meat, then 
pointing to a bread he says: This bread be for me equal to the 
said meat; and then again: This fish be equal to this bread. In 


27 


28 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


such a case if swearing by comparing one object to another is an 
oath, each thing is prohibited).* 

But whence do we know that the expression /70’ta is an 
oath? From [Lev. v. 4]: ‘‘ Or if any person swear, by pro- 
nouncing with his lips (Led’ata); now, it reads [Numb. xxx. 3]: 
““Or he swear an oath to bind his soul with an J/ssor (obliga- 
tion),’’ hence, /ssor is obviously also an oath? Therefore said 
Abayi: That Mib’ta is an oath, is inferred from [ibid., ibid. 7]: 
‘“Or what she may have uttered (J/2d’ta), wherewith she hath 
bound (Assrvo)’’; from here we see that ‘‘ she has bound,’’ not 
sworn, and it is with 1/70’ta that she has bound herself. Rabha, 
however, said: There is no necessity of Abayi’s explanation, as 
swearing by comparing is not considered; and as to the above 
Boraitha, it may be simply explained, as follows: J/70’ta is an 
oath, /ssor is also an oath; however, /ssor is found used between 
vow and oath, and this is what the Boraitha says: If one ex- 
presses /ssor as a vow, it is a vow, and if as an oath, it is an 
oath. And where is it found in such connection? [Ibid., ibid. 
11]: ‘‘ And if she had vowed in her husband’s house, or had 
bound her soul by an obligation (/ssov) with an oath.’’ And 
the explanations of Abayi and Rabha are respectively in accord- 
ance with their theories elsewhere; as it was taught: If one 
swears by comparing, it is, according to Abayi, the same as 
swearing directly with the word oath, while according to Rabha 
it is not so. 

An objection was raised from the following: What is J/ssor 
mentioned in the Torah? If one says, I take upon myself not 
to eat meat, not to drink wine just as on the day of the death 
of my father or of a certain man, ¢.g., Gedaliuhu b. Achikom, 
or as on the day when I have seen Jerusalem destroyed, it is an 
Issor ; and Samuel adds: Provided he has previously vowed 
already not to consume these objects on those days. Now, 
according to this, Abayi’s theory is correct, as we see here that 
one may make a vow by comparing, hence, he may also make 
an oath by comparing; but Rabha’s theory remains open to ob- 
jection? Nay; Rabha may say that the cited Boraitha should 
read thus: ‘‘ What is an Jssor of a vow mentioned in the Torah ’”’ ? 
‘““ Tf one says,’’ etc.; and to this Samuel makes his addition, by 
reason of [ibid., ibid. 3]: ‘‘ If a man vows a vow,’’ which means: 





* This illustration is taken from ’Hanannel, as Rashi’s illustration here is too 
complicated. 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 29 


He vows on a thing on which he has already vowed, Moreover, 
Gedaliuh’s day is specifically mentioned in the Boraitha in order 
to teach that, notwithstanding that it is a general fast-day, one’s 
vow is only then a vow if he has previously vowed especially for 
this day; and again, lest one say, this being a general fast-day 
a vow referring thereto is not considered at all, consequently 
such a vow is not even one by comparing, and hence should be 
wholly disregarded, it comes to teach us that it is not so. 

R. Johanan, too, upholds Rabha’s theory, as Rabin, on com- 
ing from Palestine, said in his name: If one says, M/70’ta, I will 
not eat, or /ssor, I will not eat, it is considered an oath. How- 
ever, when R. Dimi came from Palestine, he said in the name 
of the same authority: The oath for a future, ¢.g., I will or will 
not eat, is considered fa/se, and the warning against it is in 
[Lev. xix. 12]: ‘‘ And ye shall not swear by my name falsely.”’ 
Furthermore, the oath for the past, ¢.g., I have or have not 
eaten, is considered vain, and the warning against it is in [Exod. 
xx. 7]: ‘‘ Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in 
vain,’’ and against a vow the warning is found in [Numb. xxx. 
3|: ‘* He shall not profane his word.’’ 

An objection was raised from the following: Vain (Shahve) 
and false (Shekker) are identical. Does not this mean that just 
as vain refers to a past, so does false, too, refer to the post? 
Why, vain and false are identical in respect of another point, 
but each of them has its signification as above; as there is 
a Boraitha: Zachor, ye shall remember (in the first ten com- 
mandments) and Shamar, ye shall observe the Sabbath (in the 
last ten commandments) were uttered by the Lord in one word, 
which transcends the power of the human mouth and ear.* But 
what does this Boraitha teach us thereby? The following: Just 
as stripes are applied to a false, so they are also to a vain oath. 
But is not this self-evident, as both are negatives? Lest one 
say that it is as R. Papa said to Abayi (further on), it comes to 
teach us that the Halakha prevails with Abayi. 

When Rabin came, he said in the name of R. Jeremiah that 
R. Abuhu said in the name of R. Johanan that an oath for the 
past is a false one, and the warning against it is as cited above; 
and an oath for the future is merely a transgression of ‘‘ He shall 
not profane his word,’’ as above; and a vain oath is when one 
swears, ¢.g., thataman is awoman. Said R. Papa: R. Abuhu’s 





* The continuation of this will be translated in Tract Benedictions. 


30 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


statement was not explicitly stated, but inferred from the follow- 
ing: It was taught, Aidi b. Abin said in the name of Amram 
that R. Itz’hak said in the name of R. Johanan that R. Jehu- 
dah, quoting R. Jose the Galilean said: Stripes apply to all 
negatives of the Torah implying manual labor, but not to those 
without manual labor; excepting, however, an oath, an ex- 
change and a curse upon one’s neighbor by the holy name, to 
which three, though not implying manual labor, stripes apply. 
And whence do we know that it is so concerning an oath? Said 
R. Johanan in the name of R. Simeon b. Jo’hai, it reads [Exod. 
xx. 7|: ‘‘ For the Lord will not hold guiltless,’’ etc., which 
means only the heavenly court, but the worldly court will make 
him guiltless by punishing him with stripes. 

Said R. Papa to Abayi: But maybe it means that no one can 
make him guiltless? And he answered: It would be so if it 
were not predicated of the Lord; but as it is, it can but mean 
that not the Lord but the earthly court will. All this concerns 
a vain oath, but whence do we know that the same is the case 
with a false one? Said R. Johanan, his own opinion: In the 
cited verse ‘‘ vain’’ is mentioned twice, and as the second is not 
needed for itself, apply it to a false oath. R. Abuhu, however, 
deliberated as to how should be the case? If one swears, I will 
not eat and did eat, then there is an act done, hence it is in the 
category of negatives with manual act; again, if he swears, I 
will eat but did not eat, it is a case to which stripes do not apply 
according to both R. Johanan and Resh Lakish? (above p. 25). 
Upon due deliberation, however, R. Abuhu decided that it 


means an oath referring to the past, ¢.g., I swear that I have 


eaten, and he did not eat, or vice versa; and though there is no 
manual labor here stripes apply, as Rabha said: The Torah has 
expressly extended the provision of the vain oath to the false 
one, to teach that just as a vain refers to the past, so alsoa 
false oath. 

‘* And be it a minimum,’’ etc. The schoolmen questioned: 
Does R. Agiba hold with R. Simeon who declares one liable for 
a minimum with regard to all biblical transgressions? As we 
have learned in the following: Stripes apply even to a mini- 
mum, and the size of an olive is prescribed only concerning an 
offering. And why does R. Agqiba differ here, when he does not 
differ in any other places? Is it in order to let you know the 
power of his opponents, the rabbis, who say that if one swears 
not to eat even a minimum and did eat such, he is nevertheless 


Pe - 7 4 
i 22 a 


Weare. 
gt ee” ee 


Se ie ARE Fk pete a ae hn 


Dial 


Z. 
Pee 











TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 31 


not liable! Or, in all other cases he agrees with the rabbis, 
while here he differs; because if one swore not to eat a mini- 
mum he would certainly be liable if he did eat, hence he is also 
liable if he swore generally, without mentioning the word mini- 
mum? Come and hear. R. Aqiba said: A Nazarite who has 
soaked his bread in wine and consumed it, is liable provided 
wine of the size of an olive entered the bread; now, should he 
hold with R. Simeon, why does he require the size of an olive? 
And also from the next Mishna, concerning reptiles which the 
Gemara explains in accordance with R. Aqiba, that a man may 
impose upon one’s self the prohibition of even a minimum, it is 
inferred that he agrees with the rabbis in all cases. _ 

‘* Where do we find,’’ etc. But is there not a moth, which is 
but a minimum in size, and yet one is liable for consuming it? 
It is different with living creatures. Again, is not one liable in 
the case of the sanctuary? Here also there must be no less than 
the value of a Peruta. But does not he himself say that if one 
expresses a ‘‘ minimum”’ he is liable? The expression raises it 
to the value of a creature. But is there not a case regarding 
earth, where no definite quantity is requisite? And should you 
say that it is, then solve the following question propounded by 
Rabha: If one swore that he will not eat, and thereafter ate 
earth, what quantity thereof makes him liable, by saying that 
the quantity of an olive is required! Nay; because earth is not 
eatable, you cannot very well assign to it a definite quantity. 
But is not such the case with vows? A vow is equivalent to the 
expressions ‘“‘ minimum ’’ used in an oath. 

‘* As this one does talk and brings an offering,’’ etc. But is 
not such the case with the blasphemer who is liable for mere 
talk? Here acase is looked for where one imposes upon one’s 
self a prohibition by talk, while the blasphemer szzs with his 
talk. But is not the case of a Nazarite, who brings an offering 
for mere talk, analogous? Nay; the Nazarite brings the offer- 
ing, that wine become allowed to him. But does one not im- 
pose a prohibition by saying: “‘ This should be sanctified?’’ We 
look for a case where one imposes the prohibition only upon one’s 
self, while in this case the prohibition is general. But does not 
one prohibit a thing to one’s self by saying: ‘‘ This is a vow for 
me?’ (And if he uses the thing unintentionally he must bring 
an offering.) The Tana of the Mishna holds that to this case an 
offering does not apply. Said Rabha: They differ only regard- 
ing the case where he did not express the word ‘‘ minimum,”’ 


32 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


but if he did, the expression raises it to the value of a creature. 
He said again: They differ only when he said, ‘‘ I will not eat,’’ 
but if he said, I will not taste, all agree that he is liable. And 
Rabha says this lest one say that with the expression “‘ taste”’ 
one intended to mean “‘eat.’’ Said R. Papa: They differ only 
concerning vows, while as regards oaths all agree that liability 
attaches even to a minimum, because by saying “‘ this is a vow 
for me’’ he does not mention eating. 

MISHNA /Z/.: (If one says): I swear that I will not eat, and 
thereafter eats and drinks, he is guilty but once. But if he 
says: I swear that I will neither eat nor drink and did both, he 
is guilty twice. If he says: I swear not to eat and then eats 
wheat bread, barley bread and rye bread, he is guilty but once; 
if he swears: I will not eat either wheat bread, barley bread or 
rye bread and then eats, he is guilty for each one severally. I 


swear that I will not drink, and thereafter drinks varied bever- 


ages, he is guilty but once; I swear I will drink neither wine, 
oil, nor honey, and then drinks, he is guilty for each severally. 
I swear not to eat, and then ate things not suitable to eat, and 
drank something not suitable as a drink, he is free. If he swore 
not to eat and thereafter ate carcasses or illegal cattle, reptiles 
and vermin, he is guilty. R. Simeon declares him free. If one 
said: I swear to abstain from deriving any benefit from my wife 
if I have eaten to-day, and he did eat carcasses, etc., his wife is 
prohibited to him for all benefit. 

GEMARA: R. Hyya b. Abin said in the name of Samuel: 
If one swears not to eat and thereafter drank, he is guilty. If 
you wish, this is mere common sense, since ordinarily a man 
inviting the other one to have a bite, the two go in and eat and 
drink: or if you wish, it is found in the Scripture that the ex- 
pression eat includes also drinking—viz.: in [Deut. xiv. 16]: 
‘‘In cattle, sheep, wine . . . and thou shalt eat these.’’ But 
perhaps it means there an aino garum (a dish in which wine is 
mixed)? The verse says further Shechor* (old wine), which 
means an intoxicating beverage. Neither can it here be spoken 
of a date of the City of Kehilla, which when eaten intoxicates 
and regarding which a Boraitha says that one who had eaten it 
and then entered the sanctuary is culpable, as the word shechor 
here is analogous with the same word used concerning a Nazarite 
where it surely means only wine for which he is culpable. Said 





* Shechor is old wine and Shiccor from the same stem means intoxicated. 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 33 


Rabha: This is implied also in our Mishna: If one swears not 
to eat, and then eats and drinks, he is culpable but once, which 
signifies that the drinking is included in the eating; for if this 
were not the case, to what purpose would the express teaching 
be? Would it be necessary, ¢.g., for the Tana to teach expressly 
that the oath regarding eating makes one culpable only for the 
eating and not for performed labor? Said Abayi to him: Ac- 
cording to your doctrine that eating includes drinking, how is 
the second part of the Mishna “‘ I will neither eat nor drink’’ to 
be understood? As eating includes drinking, why is he culpable 
twice? And he answered: Because of the expression; the addi- 
tion ‘‘ nor drink’’ shows clearly that his ‘‘ I will neither eat’’ 
was not yet in dzs mind including drinking. Said R. Ashi: It 
seems to me, too, that the teaching of the Mishna implies drink- 
ing in eating, hence, ‘‘ I swear not to ea¢ and then ate things 
not eatable and drank things not suitable to drink,’’ which im- 
plies that if the things he drank were suitable, he would be liable, 
hence we see that drinking is included in eating. However, this 
is hardly evidence, as the Mishna here may mean that he said in 
his oath both eat and drink. 

““ I will not eat either wheat bread . . . he ts guilty for each.” 
But perhaps he intends by mentioning expressly bread merely 
to exclude other things which to eat he shall be free? If such were 
the case, he would not repeat the word bread with each kind 
separately. But again, maybe he uses repeatedly the word 
bread in order to prevent the belief that he swears with regard 
to wheat bread not to eat, while with regard to the others not 
to chew? If this were his intention, he would say: I will not 
eat wheat bread, nor barley, nor rye, without repeating bread 
each time. But if he said so, his oath could be understood to 
concern a mixture of all these, but not each singly and sever- 
ally? Then let him say: I will not eat bread of wheat, of bar- 
ley, or of rye, without repeating dread. Hence, the repetition 
must have been intended to emphasize that he makes an oath 
for each severally. 

‘‘ T will drink neither wine, oil... he ts guilty,’’ etc. Here 
again the question arises, maybe he intends to exclude other 
beverages, as here the above argumentation cannot be advanced, 
since the beverages are here specified. Said R. Papa: It speaks 
of a case where all these liquids were standing before him, so 
that he could by pointing to them swear not to drink them; 
why, then, are they specified? To indicate that he makes an 


34 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


oath for each one. But if so, it could be said that he must not 
partake only of these before him, but of other wine, etc., he 
may? Let him then say: I will not drink of ‘these before me, 
nor of their kind in general. Hence, it must be said that the 
specification is intended to make the oath for each severally. 
R. Aha b. R. Aika said: The Mishna speaks of one invited by 
his neighbor to drink with him wine, oil and honey, to which 
he could answer: I will not drink with you (without repeating 
wine, oil and honey); hence, his repeating the liquids makes 
him liable for each one separately. 

**T will not eat and then ate things not eatable,’’ etc. Does 
not the Mishna’ contradict itself? It states that on eating an 
unsuitable thing he is free, and hereafter it declares him culpable 
for eating carcass? What are the reasons to account for these 
two parts respectively? This presents no difficulty. The first 
part speaks of the case when he says in general: I will not eat; 
while the second part speaks of the case when he expressly says: 
I will not eat anything. But even if this be so, why should the 
oath hold regarding reptiles, where an oath (not to eat such) lies 
on him already from the Mount Sinai? Rabh, Samuel and R. 
Johanan all three said: It speaks of the case when one includes 
in his oath the permissible with the forbidden—viz.: I will not 
eat legal and illegal things. Resh Lakish, however, says: A 
case like that of the Mishna cannot take place, unless he stated 
plainly not to eat even a half of the prescribed quantity; in 
which case according to the rabbis, who hold one liable only for 
the whole quantity, the oath concerns a half-quantity, and ac- 
cording {to R. Aqiba, who says that liability attaches even to 
a minimum, the oath here concerns a half-quantity Pa? he 
has not plainly specified anything. 

But why does not Resh Lakish agree with R. Johanan? He 
may say that R. Johanan’s theory of inclusion can be applied 
only to prohibitions in themselves, such as, eating carcasses on 
the day of atonement, where the carcass is prohibited even if not 
on the day of atonement, nevertheless the rabbis make him 
liable also for the day of atonement, because as one is prohibited 
from eating legal food on that day, he is likewise prohibited 
from eating carcass, for the prohibition to eat includes legal as 
well as illegal food; however, where a prohibition is imposed by 
man upon one’s self, no one can make him liable for inclusion. 
Said Rabha: The reason of him who holds that one is liable for 
an inclusion is that he compares it to an additional prohibition; 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 35 


while the reason of him who holds that such is not the case is 
that an additional prohibition holds good when concerning one 
and the same piece, but not when concerning separate pieces; 
Zé., an inclusive prohibition is, ¢.g., a carcass on the day of | 
atonement, where the day itself adds nothing to the prohibition 
of the carcass as such, but does add a prohibition upon the man 
(viz : that he must not eat it on that day); while if, ¢.g., illegal 
fat, which is prohibited to eat, but allowed for the altar, remains 
over night, it is prohibited also for the altar, hence, there is on 
it an additional prohibition (for its having remained over night), 
but this additional prohibition can be only on one and the same 
piece, but not on separate pieces. 

Rabha said further that to him who holds the theory of in- 
clusive prohibition, he who swears not to eat figs and hereafter 
swears not to eat figs and grapes, is liable for the figs twice; for 
the second oath resting upon the grapes, rests again upon the 
figs, too. But is not this self-evident? Lest one say that this 
theory applies only to prohibitions in themselves, and not to 
such made by man upon himself, he comes to teach us that 
there is no difference between the two cases.* 


MISHNA //7,: It is immaterial whether the things sworn 
off concern himself or others; whether they are or are not of 


some essential nature. F.g., he says: I swear that I will or will 
not give something to this or that person; that I did or did not 
give him something; that I will or will not sleep; that I did or 
did not sleep; that I will or will not throw a stone into the sea; 
that I did or did not throw it. R. Ismael says: One is guilty 
only for an oath made with reference to the future, for it is writ- 
ten: To do evil or to do good. Said to him R. Agiba: Ac- 
cording to this view I know but about oaths concerning things 
that are intrinsically either evil or good, but whence do I learn 
about those regarding things that entail neither evil nor good 
doing? Retorted the former: From the addition in the Scrip- 
ture; to this rejoined the latter: If the Scripture widens the 
notion in this respect, it does it likewise in the other (case). 
GEMARA: The rabbis taught: In some respects vows are 
more rigorous than oaths, in others oaths are more rigorous than 
vows. Vows are more rigorous in that their liability attaches 
even to commandments, ¢.g.: If one says, I vow not to make a 





* The discussion following here, being but repeated from its proper place, is 
here omitted. 


36 - THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


sukkah, and hereafter he makes one, he is liable for transgress- 
ing the vow; which is not the case with an oath (as an oath rests 
upon him from the Mount Sinai). On the other hand, oaths 
are more rigorous than vows in that their liability attaches also 
to things not essential, which is not the case with vows. 

“IT will or will not give,’’ etc. What does it mean, “I will 
give’’? If charity to the poor, it is obligatory for him by oath 
on the Mount Sinai? Nay; it means a present to a rich man. 

““T will or will not sleep,’’ etc. But has not R. Johanan said 
that if one swears not to sleep for three days in succession, he 
gets stripes and is put to sleep immediately (because one cannot 
keep from sleeping for three days)? This is no difficulty, as in 
the case of the Mishna no number of days is specified. 

“I will throw a stone,’’ etc. It was taught: If one said, I 
swear that so and so has or has not thrown a stone into the sea, 
_ according to Rabh he is culpable, as he transgressed a negative; 
according to Samuel he is not, for such an oath can not be made 
with reference to the future. Shall we assume that the above 
differ in the same in which R. Aqiba and R. Ismael differ in our 
Mishna: R. Ismael said, one is liable only for the future, as it 
reads: To do evil or to do good; whereupon said R. Agqiba: If 
it were as you say, the liability would apply but to things that 
are intrinsically either evil or good; and he answered: From the 
addition in the Scripture: To every thing uttered with his lips; 
whereto R. Aqiba rejoined, etc. Whence it would appear that 
Rabh is in accordance with Agiba, and Samuel in accordance 
with R. Ismael? Nay; according to R. Ismael, who frees one 
for the past even in a case where a future is possible, there can 
be no doubt that in the case illustrated above, one should be 
culpable; but where they do differ is concerning the interpreta- 
tion of R. Aqiba’s view. According to Rabh, R. Aqiba holds 
one liable for transgressing a negative immaterial whether such 
an oath can or can not apply to a future; while Samuel main- 
tains that R. Aqiba’s view applies only to a case where an oath 
for the future zs possible, but not to other cases. 

Said Abayi: Rabh admits that if one says, I swear that I 
know something to testify for you, and it is found hereafter that 
he knows nothing, there is no liability in this case because the 
negative, I swear that I do not know, etc., is not possible here 
(as this is not considered an utterance, but belongs to the cate- 
gory of testimony). But regarding the oath, I was or was not 
aware of testimony in your case, or, I have or have not testified, 











TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 37 


Rabh and Samuel still differ. (Says the Gemara): According 
to Samuel’s theory it is correct that the law has excluded the 
witness-oath from the category of uttered oaths, as there is a 
rule that where there is no future possible, no liability attaches 
to the past; but according to Rabh who disregards this rule, 
why were the witness-oaths excluded? Said the rabbis before 
Abayi: In order to make one liable twice (z.¢., if one is fit to 
testify, knows the case, and nevertheless denied it before the 
court, he is liable twice, for the witness-oath and for an uttered 
oath). Said Abayi to them: It is impossible to make one liable 
twice, as it reads plainly [Lev. v. 4]: ‘‘ That he hath incurred 
guilt by one * of these,’’ which means, he can be punished once 
but not twice. But, then, to what other purpose have the wit- 
ness-oaths been excluded, according to Abayi? To what we 
have learned in the following: Concerning all oaths it reads 
‘“ escaped his memory,’’ except the oath of a witness, to make 
him liable (to a sin-offering) for an intentional oath just as for 
an unintentional one. Said the rabbis to Abayi: Say, then, 
that for an intentional he is liable to one, and for an uninten- 
tional he should be liable to two, viz.: for a witness and an 
uttered oath? And he answered: Have I not said that the 
above-cited verse prevents it from making one liable to two? 
And as to an intentional, the liability of an uttered oath does 
not exist there. 

Rabha, however, said: The reason why there can be no two 
liabilities is this: There is a rule that, if to something that was 
included in the general a new law be applied, only by the new 
one must guide one’s self (z.e., the witness-oath as an oath is 
included in the general uttered oaths, and when the Scripture 
makes for it a new special law of liability, you cannot any more 
apply to it also the liability attached to the uttered oath). But 
how is it according to Abayi? Does he hold that there is such 
an oath at all? Has he not declared above that Rabh admits 
that if one swears: I know testimony for you, etc., there is no 
liability here, as such oath cannot be made in the negative, 
whence it would seem that such in the negative does not exist 
at all? He has retracted his above statement, or, if you wish, 


one of the above statements was not said by Abayi but by 
R. Papa. 





* Here the word /’achath (to one) is taken by the text literally: one; while 
further on it is explained to mean ‘¢o anyone’, 


38 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD... 


‘“ One ts guilty only ... with reference to the future.’’ The 
rabbis taught, it reads [Lev. v. 4]: ‘‘ To do evil, or to do good,”’ 
whence we infer only those that are in themselves either good 
or evil; but whence do we know about oaths concerning other 
things? From [ibid., ibid.]: ‘“ Pronouncing with his lips,’’ etc. - 
But all this is concerning the future; whence do we know the 
same concerning the past? From [ibid., ibid.]: ‘‘ In whatsoever 
it be’’; so R. Aqiba. R. Ismael, however, says: ‘‘ To do evil, 
or to do good”’ means only oaths for the future. Said to him 
R. Aqiba: If such be the case, we know only about oaths con- 
cerning things intrinsically good or evil, but whence do we know 
about those regarding other things? Retorted the former: From 
the addition in the Scripture (“ whatsoever’’), whereupon rejoined 
R. Aqiba: If the Scripture widens the notion in this respect, it 
does it likewise in all other respects. Now, is not R. Agiba’s 
statement perfectly correct? Said R. Johanan: R. Ismael, who 
wasa disciple of R. Ne’hunia b. Hakana, who wasinthe habit of _ 
interpreting the Scripture by generals and particulars, proceeds in 
the same manner as his master; while R. Agiba, who was the 
disciple of Na’hum of Gimzu, whose method of interpretation 
was extensions and limitations, follows his master’s method. 
And this is as stated in the following Boraitha: “‘ If any person 
swear’’ is an extension; “‘ To do evil or good”’ is a limitation; 
‘““ In whatsoever it be’’ is again an extension, and there is a rule 
that such an extension includes everything, while a limitation 
is excluding a commandment. This is in accordance with R. 
Agiba; while R. Ismael, whose method is the generals and par- 
ticulars, interprets the verse thus: ‘‘ If any person,’’ etc., is a 
general; ‘‘ To do evil or good’”’ is a particular; ‘‘ In whatso- 
ever’’ is again a general, and there is a rule that wherever there 
is a particular between two generals, the latter must be inter- 
preted in the sense of the particular; now, as the particular here 
refers expressly to the future, so also everything relates to the 
future; the generals, however, affect in the same way all other 
things relating to the future, but not implying either good or 
evil, while the particular affects things relating to the past, that 
they be excluded. (Says the Gemara): And why not the re- 
verse? Said R. Itz’hak: They must be similar to the particular 
(of to do evil, etc.), which is prohibited because of the above-cited 
[Numb. xxx.]: ‘‘ He shall not profane his word,’’ excluded the 
past to which the prohibition is ‘‘ He shall not lie.’’ R. Itz’hak 
b. Abin, however, said: This is inferred from the cited verse, 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 39 


‘‘ If any person swear by pronouncing,’’ which signifies that the 
oath was before the act, but not the past where the act was 
before the oath. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ If any person swear,’’ etc., intends to 
exclude compulsion; ‘* Escaped ’’ to exclude intention; ‘* From 
his memory ’”’ to signify that the oath escaped his memory but 
not the thing in question; hence, one is culpable only for for- 
getting the oath, but not for forgetting the object. 

The master says: ‘‘ To exclude compulsion,’’ what could 
illustrate this? As it happened to R. Kahana and R. Assi after 
the lectures at Rabh’s college had ceased; one would say, I 
swear that Rabh said so and so, and the other would say, I 
swear that Rabh said the contrary, and when they came to ask 
Rabh on the point, he certainly said as one of them; and to the 
question of the other, Have I sworn false, Rabh answered: You 
were compelled by your conscience and the verse “‘ Escaped 
(from) his memory’ means the oath but not the object. 

This statement was ridiculed in the west. An oath and not 
the object is to be found, ¢.g., in: I swear not to eat wheat 
bread, and thereafter he thinks that he swore to eat, and accord- 

ingly eats it, hence, he forgot the oath but not the object; but 

where do you find a case where the object is forgotten and not 
the oath? As, ¢.g., in: I will not eat wheat bread, and there- 
after ate it thinking it to be of barley, hence, he has the oath in 
mind and not the object; but as he forgot the object, is it not 
as if he forgot the oath? Therefore, decided R. Elazar that it 
makes no difference what one forgets. R. Joseph opposed: Is 
it indeed so, that the object cannot be forgotten without the 
oath? May it not happen that one swear not to eat wheat 
bread, and then stretch his hand to the basket where there was 
both barley and wheat bread with the intention to take that of 
barley, but takes that of wheat, and eats it up in the belief that 
it is of barley? In this case he had the oath clearly in mind, 
but he did not recognize the object. Said Abayi to him: But 
when he brings the offering, why does he bring it, for the bread 
he has eaten? Surely because of the oath (hence, they were 
right in the west). R. Joseph, however, insists on his state- 
ment for the reason that if he actually recognized that this is 
wheat bread, he would certainly abstain from it, hence, here is 
the ignorance of the object. 

Rabha questioned R. Na’hman: How is it if he forgot both? 
And he answered: As soon as he became ignorant of the oath 


’ 


40 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


he is culpable. Rejoined Rabha: Why not the contrary? Here 
is the ignorance of the object, and hence he should be free? 
Said R. Ashi: In such a case we have to examine the nature of 
the case; if he abstained from the object by recollecting the 
oath, then the ignorance of the oath is the main thing, and he 
is culpable; but if he abstained by recollecting the object, then 
the ignorance of the object is the main point, and he is free. 
Said Rabina to him: I do not see any difference here; if his 
abstention is caused by the recollection of the oath, is not here 
also the recollection of the object brought about? And the same 
may be asked wice versa ; hence, there can be no difference here. 

Rabha questioned again R. Na’hman: How can an uninten- 
tional uttered oath take place for the past? If he (who swears) 
is while swearing aware that it is false, then it is intentional; 
and if he is not aware, then it is a case of compulsion. And he 
answered: Take the case where he is aware that such an oath is 
prohibited, but is not aware that the liability of a sin-offering is 
attached thereto. Is this in accordance with Munbaz, who holds 
that such an ignorance be considered, and not in accordance 
with the rabbis, his opponents? Nay; this may even accord 
with the latter, as they differ with him only in all other cases of 
the Torah, but not in this case, for it is a novelty, as we do not 
find anywhere in the Scripture that one should be liable to a sin- 
offering for a negative except in this case, in which, therefore, 
the rabbis, too, agree with Munbaz. 

Rabina (the elder) questioned Rabha: Suppose one swear 
not to eat this bread, and then he is in danger if he does not eat 


it, how is it? In danger! then he is certainly allowed to eat it! 


Said Rabina: I mean to say that suppose he ate this bread while 
impelled by hunger and having forgotten his oath not to eat it. 
And Rabha answered: Concerning this we have learned else- 
where, a sin-offering applies only to such a case where he would 
abstain from eating if he recollected his oath, but not otherwise; 
while here, being, as he is, impelled by hunger, he would not 
abstain, it cannot be considered unintentional.* 

Samuel said: It is not sufficient that one make up his mind, 
he must pronounce it with his lips, as it reads “‘ By pronouncing 
with his lips.’’ 





* The explanation here is that of Hanannell’s second version, Rashi not being 
clear on the point. 

+ This statement is objected to by many, but the objections are overthrown ; and 
as all this discussion is both complicated and unimportant, we omit it. 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 4t 


MISHNA JV.: If one swears to ignore some commandment 
and does not carry out his oath, he is free; if he swears to fulfill 
a commandment and fails to realize his oath, he is free. It ap- 
pears on the first glance that he should rather be guilty, as R. 
Jehudah b. Battina argues thus: Since one is guilty for oaths re- 
garding voluntary acts not provided for from the Mount Sinai, so 
much the more is it soin the case of oaths regarding command- 
ments, to which he is sworn in from the Mount Sinai. Where- 
upon he was retorted: If you declare him guilty in voluntary 
acts where affirmation and negation are both alike indifferent, 
you can by means do the same in oaths concerning command- 
ments where affirmation and negation are not equivalent; since 
one is free, if he swears to, but does not, violate a command- 
ment. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: Lest one say that one who 
swore to ignore a commandment and did not, should be culpa- 
ble, it reads, ‘‘ To do evil or good’’; just as to do good unto 
one’s self is a voluntary act, so also an evil act must be volun- 
tary, and this excludes him who swore to ignore a command- 
ment. Furthermore, lest one say that he who swore to fulfill 
acommandment and did not, should be culpable for the oath, 
we again compare the good to the evil act: just as latter is vol- 
untary in this case, so must former be voluntary, and this ex- 
cludes the case of an oath to fulfill acommandment. Again, 
lest one say that if one swore to do evil unto himself and did 
not, he should be free, we again compare evil to good; just as 
the latter means voluntary, so also the former, hence, it includes 
the case where one swore to do evil to himself, which he was at 
liberty to do, and he is culpable. Finally, lest one say that the 
same is the case if he swore to do evil to others and did not, we 
compare evil to good, which latter is voluntary, while in the 
case of strangers he is not at liberty to do evil, hence he is free. 
But whence do we know that he who swore to do good to others 
and did not, is culpable? From ‘‘ or to do good.’’ What is an 
evil doing to others? £&.g., one says: I will strike so and so, 
and split his head. 

(Says the Gemara): But whence is it known that the above- 
cited verse treats of a voluntary act, perhaps it has in viewa 
meritorious act? This cannot be borne in mind, as the two, the 
evil and the good, must be compared with each other; and as 
doing good cannot be spoken of concerning the ignoring of a 
commandment, so also doing evil cannot treat of ignoring a com- 


42 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


mandment, hence, this expression of doing evil would be in this 
respect good, as it does not apply to the ignoring of command- 
ments; on the other hand, the good-doing is compared to the 
evil-doing: just as the former cannot treat of the fulfilling of a 
commandment, so also the latter cannot; hence, in this respect 
the good-doing would be evil (therefore, the expression in ques- 
tion cannot treat of meritorious acts). But in the light of these 
considerations, this expression cannot treat of voluntary acts, 
either, where good and evil means to do good and evil unto 
one’s self respectively, hence, here, too, good would in some 
respects be evil (as, ¢.g., the oath not to eat a harmful thing) 
and vice versa?* Therefore we must say that, because it was 
needful to the Scripture to use the disjunction ‘‘ or’’ in order 
to indicate doing good to others, it must treat a voluntary acts; 
since if it treated of commandments, the ‘‘ or’’ would not be 
necessary, as it would be self-evident, for as the doing evil to 
others is included here, so much the more the doing good! 


‘“R. Jehudah b. Bathira,’’ etc. Is not the argument of the 


rabbis against R. Jehudah b. Bathira correct? He may say 
thus: Let us see; was it then necessary for the Scripture to add 
that if one swore to do good to others and did not, he is culpa- 
ble; is this not self-evident, since one is not culpable for an oath 
to do evil to others, being as he is not free to do so, he is culpa- 
ble when he zs free to do so; and nevertheless the Scripture did 
add, hence, the same is the case with the oath to fulfill a com- 
mandment, where, although it is self-evident that he is culpable 
in this case because he is not culpable when he swore to ignore 


a commandment, yet the Scripture adds it. To all which the 


rabbis might say: These two cases are by no means analogous, 
as when one swears not to do good to so and so, he is culpable, 
while if one swears not to fulfill a commandment, and ehereatrer 
he does fulfill, he cannot be culpable. 

MISHNA V.: If one swears, I will not eat this loaf of bread, 
I swear I will not eat it, I swear I will not eat it, and eats it 
nevertheless, he is guilty but once. This is an uttered oath for 
the intentional violation of which one is subject to stripes, and 
for whose unintentional violation to a poor or rich offering. Vain 
swearing, if wilfully done, is punished with stripes, but if com- 
mitted unintentionally, is free from punishment. 





* The commentaries on the point are in great perplexity. 
+ The discussion here on the disjunction ‘‘or” is omitted, for it is already given 


in Sanhedrin. 


See ee Oe, eae eee saa 


pie 


som ie, 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 43 


GEMARA: To what purpose does the Mishna vary the lan- 
guage? It comes to teach us that only when making the oath 
in such expressions he is culpable but once; but if he said first: 
I will not eat it, and then, I will not eat this loaf, he would be 
culpable twice; as Rabha explains elsewhere that the expression 
**T will not eat this bread ’’ makes one culpable when he ate of 
it the size of an olive; but if one says, ‘‘ I will not eat it,’’ he is 
not culpable unless he has consumed the whole of it; hence, if 
the Mishna stated first ‘‘ I will not eat it, and then ‘‘ I will not 
eat this loaf of bread’’ he would be culpable twice (as here were 
two distinct oaths: the former on the whole bread, the latter on 
the size of an olive; and the latter does not do away with the 
former, while the former if stated last would do away with the 
latter). 

“* T will not eat tt, and eats tt none the less,’’ etc. For what 
purpose is this repetition, since one oath does not rest upon the 
other, as we have seen it to be the case with the second one, 
and it is surely so with the third one, too? It comes to teach 
us that, though there is no liability, yet the oath is not ignored, 
and that in case there will be place for it, it may rest; this illus- 
tration is as Rabha said: In case he asked a sage to nullify the 
first oath, the next comes to take its place. 

Rabha said: If one says, I swear not to eat ¢hzs bread in case 
I eat the other, and it happened that he ate the first *(1) erro- 
neously and the second intentionally, he is free (2); if vice versa, 
he is culpable (3); furthermore, if he ate both unintentionally, 
he is free (4); if both intentionally, it depends on the following: 
if he had eaten the conditional one first and thereafter the one 
he prohibited to himself, he is liable (5), and if vice versa it is 
under the category of cases concerning which R. Johanan and 
Resh Lakish differ; according to him who holds that a doubtful 





* (1) The first, z.e. the conditioned A, the second, z.e. the conditioning one 2. 
(2) Because when he eats 4 he forgot all about 4 and the oath has not yet rested 
upon him, since B was not yet consumed by him; hence, he is free from both stripes 
and sin offering. (3) Because while eating 4 he was aware of his oath, and when 
consuming B he forgot the oath; hence he is liable to an offering for breaking an 
oath by forgetting. (4) Because he had forgotten the oath already when he ate 4 
hence there was no oath at all resting upon him. (5) To stripes, since after hav- 
ing consumed A he was aware that A was forbidden to him, and the warning was 
a certain one. (6) Because if he was warned with regard to either A or B, he has 
broken his oath intentionally. (7) Even when warned while eating 4, because the 
liability to stripes is originally attached only to B, hence the warning does not effect. 
(8) Because one of the breads was necessarily consumed intentionally. 


44 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


warning is considered, he is culpable (6), while according to the 
other, who holds that such is not considered, he is free (7). If, 
however, continues Rabha, he made the two breads dependent 
on each other—viz.: I will not eat the one if I eat the other, © 
I will not eat the other if I eat this, and thereafter he consumed 
one intentionally (z.¢., he has in mind the oath that he must not 
eat this in case he eats the other one, but he forgot that he 
swore the same with regard to the other bread) then he con- 
sumed the other one also intentionally (the same as before, but 
he forgot that he has already consumed the first one), he is free; 
if, however, he has consumed the first unintentionally (7.¢., he 
forgot that the conditional oath is on ¢hzs bread, though aware 
of the oath itself and therefore he consumes the second one in 
the same manner, he is culpable (8); but if he consumed both 
unintentionally (having forgotten all about the oath), he is free; 
both intentionally, he is, all agree, culpable for the second one; 
the first, however, falls into the foregoing category concerning 
which R. Johanan and Resh Lakish differ. Said R. Mari: there 
are vows by error and vows by compulsion; how so? If one 
says: I vow this object if I have eaten or drunk such and such, 
and then recollects that he did; in like manner if he vows for 
the future and on forgetting the vow eats or drinks, to such a 
vow no liability attaches; and there is a Boraitha that just as 
there are vows by error, there are also oaths by error. 

Eipha taught the Tract Sheb’noth at Rabba’s college, and 
Abimi, his brother, asked him: How is it if one swears twice, 
I have not eaten, I have not eaten, while he did eat? He an- 
swered: He is culpable but once; whereupon he said: You are 
mistaken, since the first oath was already a lie, and the second 
one is again a lie. He asked further: How is it if one swears 
not to eat nine and ten (articles), and thereafter he eats ten, 
without recollecting his oath in between? And he answered: 
He is culpable for each one severally. Said the other: You are 
again mistaken, for the oath for the ten does not rest at all, as 
ten presupposes nine and for the nine he has made a separate 
oath; but how is it if he swear not to eat ten, and then not to 
eat nine? Here he is culpable only once. The other rejoined: 
You are again mistaken, for as soon as he ate nine he broke one 
oath, and by eating the tenth he breaks the other oath. Said 
Abayi: In this last case, then, may be a case that Eipha is right 
—viz.: if one swear not to eat ten, and thereafter not to eat 
nine; then he ate nine and recollected his transgression, brought 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 45 


a sin-offering and then consumed the tenth; the tenth is then 
considered but a half-quantity, and for such one is not liable. 

MISHNA I7.: Which is false swearing? If one swears that 
something is different from what it is known by everybody to 
be, ¢.g., that a stone column is of gold, that a man is a woman, 
that a woman is a man; or if he swears to an impossibility— 
viz.: If I have not seen a camel flying in the air; If I did not 
see a serpent of the shape of an oil-press; so! ... If one asks 
some witnesses: Come to testify for me, and they answer, We 
swear that we shall not bear you witness; or if someone swears 
to ignore a commandment, as, ¢.g., not to make a Sukka, not 
to take Lulab’be, or not to put on phylacteries; so it is a false 
swearing punishable with stripes if committed intentionally, and 
unpunishable if made by error. If he swears, to one and the 
same loaf of bread, I will not eat it, then, I will not eat it, the 
former is a vain oath, and the latter an uttered oath; so that by 
eating it he is liable for uttered swearing; by not eating it he is 
liable for a vain oath. 

GEMARA: Said Ula: Provided it was acknowledged by 
three persons that this pillar was of stone. 

‘* If he swore to an impossibility,’’ etc. Why does the Mishna 
use a negative and not a positive expression? Said Abayi: Read 
it in the positive, if you prefer. Rabha, however, said: It 
speaks thus: If he says, all the fruit in the world be forbidden to 
me, if I have not,* etc. 

“‘I will eat, I will not eat,’’ etc. Let us see: since he is 
liable for the uttered oath, shall he not be liable for the vain 
one? He das pronounced such and why shall he not be liable? 
Said R. Jeremiah: Read in the Mishna, he is liable for the 
uttered oath a/so. 

MISHNA V/Z.: The provisions regarding uttered swearing 
apply to males, females; to kindred, non-kindred; to those 
legally fit to testify as well as to those unfit; to cases before as 
well as outside the court. The oath, however, must come forth 
from his own mouth, and its intentional violation is punished 
with stripes, and its unintentional with a poor and rich-offering. 
Vain swearing takes place by men as well as by women; by kin- 
dred and non-kindred; by those fit to testify and by those unfit; 
before and outside the court, and the oath must issue from one’s 
own mouth; its intentional violation is attended with stripes, 





* The further development of this discussion will appear in its place in N’dairm. 


46 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


while its unintentional is unpunishable. In both cases one is 
guilty if made to swear by others, thus: If he says, I ate noth- 
ing to-day, I put on no phylacteries, and another interposes: I 
adjure you, to which he answers: Amen, he is guilty. 

GEMARA: Said Samuel: He who answers amen after an 
oath is considered as if he pronounced the oath with his lips, as 
it reads [Numb. v. 22]: ‘“ And the women say amen, amen.’’ 
Said R. Papa in the name of Rabha: There are a Mishna and 
a Boraitha which seem to teach the same. The Mishna is the 
next following (viii.): The witness-oath . . . unless they deny 
before the court; such is R. Mair’s view. Then the illustration 
in the Boraitha: If one said to the witnesses, Come and testify 
for me, and they answer: We swear that we know of not esti- 
mony for you, or, We do not know any testimony, whereto he 
says, I adjure you, and they answered: Amen, they are liable 
when they deny it, immaterial in the presence or absence of the 
court; so R. Mair. Hence, the Boraitha apparently contradicts 
the Mishna; however, as we said, the Mishna means that they 
did not answer amen, while in the Boraitha he’ did so, hence, 
the answer, amen, is equivalent to pronouncing with one’s lips. 

Said Rabina in the name of Rabha: From our own Mishna 
we may infer the same; as in the first part it requires that he 
must utter it himself, whence it is to be inferred that not 
through others, and in its last part it states that in both cases if 
sworn through another, he is liable; does the last part contradict 
the first? Nay; the last part means when they answered Amen, 
while the first part does not mean so. But if so, what comes 
Samuel to tell us? He comes to teach that the Mishna is par- 
ticular in its statements concerning an uttered oath—viz.: if 
made by himself, he must pronounce it with his lips, and if by 
others, he must also utter with his lips Amen. 





SS a Re 





CHAPTER IV. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE WITNESS-OATH : WHO IS 
OR IS NOT RESPONSIBLE THEREFOR; HOW THE PLACE WHERE SUCH 
IS MADE (WITHIN OR WITHOUT THE COURT) DETERMINES ITS LIA- 
BILITY ; IF MADE INTENTIONALLY.—THE LAWS OF ADJURATION. 
—TWO PARTIES OF WITNESSES CONTRADICTING EACH OTHER.—FOR 
WHICH OF THE DIVINE NAMES AND ATTRIBUTES (WHEN USED IN 
AN OATH) ONE IS CULPABLE. 


MISHNA /.: The witness-oath applies to men but not to 
women, to unrelated but not to kindred, to legally fit to testify 
but not to those unfit, as such an oath is given only to those fit 
to testify in the presence as well as in the absence of the court; 
provided it comes forth from one’s own lips, but if from the 
mouth of others, they are liable only when they deny it before 
the court; such is R. Mair’s view; the sages, however, main- 
tain: Whether it comes forth from one’s own mouth or from 
that of others, they are not liable unless they deny it before the 
court. Again, the witnesses are liable for an intentional oath, 
and for an error zz the oath made while intentionally testify- 
ing, but are not guilty when made in error. And what is their 
fine for intentional swearing? A poor and rich offering. 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? From what the rabbis 
taught, it reads [| Deut. xix. 17]: “‘ Then shall the two men, who 
have the controversy, stand before the Lord,’’ etc. ; this means 
the witnesses; but perhaps it means the contending parties 
themselves? Asit reads: ‘‘ Who have the controversy,’’ hence, 
the parties are already indicated, consequently, ‘‘ the men”’ in- 
dicate the witnesses. And should you like to object to this 
deduction, then we may refer to the analogy of expression 
‘“‘two’’ mentioned here, and also found in [ibid. 15]: ‘‘ Upon 
the evidence of two,’’ where it expressly means witnesses, hence, 
also here witnesses are meant. [And what would be the objec- 
tion? Lest one say that because it is not written “‘ and who 
have the controversy,’’ the whole verse speaks only of the par- 
ties, hence, the analogy of expression. | 

There is another Boraitha: ‘‘ The two men shall stand’”’ 


47 


48 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


means the witnesses; but perhaps it means the parties ? This 
cannot be, for do only men and not women come to court? 
And should you like to object, we may refer you to an analogy 
of expression; as there ‘‘two’’ means witnesses, so also here 
[and what would be the objection? Lest one say that it is not 
customary for a woman to go to court, as it reads [Psalm, xlv. 
14]: ‘‘ Awaiteth the king’s daughter in the inner chamber’’; 
wherefore, the analogy of expression]. 

The rabbis taught: ‘“ The two men shall stand’”’ signifies 
that it is a meritorious act that both parties declare their griev- 
ances standing. Said R. Jehudah: I have heard that if the 
court allows both parties to sit, they may do so, since it is for- 
bidden only that one stand and the other sit; or that one party 
be allowed freedom in speaking, and the other he asked to speak 
briefly. 

The rabbis taught, it reads [Lev. xix. 15]: ‘‘ In righteous- 
ness thou shalt judge thy neighbor,’’ which means no preference 
is to be given to either party, as said above. Another explana- 
tion of the just-cited verse is: Try always to judge everybody 
from his better side. R. Joseph taught: This verse signifies 
that him who is your equal in wisdom and deeds, you shall try 
to judge fairly. 

It happend that Ula b. Ejilai had a case in the court of R. 
Na’hman, and R. Joseph sent word to R. Na’hman: Ula, our 
colleague, is equal to us in wisdom and deeds; and R. Na’hman 
wondered what the purpose of the message was; does he mean: 
I shall flatter him? After some deliberation he said: He must 
mean I shall give preference to Ula’s case over some other cases, 
or if in his case the evidence will be equally balanced on the two 
sides, and the opinion of the judges will be dicisive. 

Ula said: The point of difference above concerns only the 
contending parties, while concerning the witnesses all agree that 
they must stand, as the above-cited verse, “‘ The two men shall 
stand,”’ signifies; and R. Huna said: The difference concerns only 
the time of the trial, while at its conclusion the judges, all agree, 
should sit and the parties stand, as the conclusion is equalled 
to witnesses and as they are standing according to the above- 
cited verse, so also must the parties stand. 

The wife of R. Huna had once a case before R. Na’hman, 
and the latter deliberated with himself as to how to proceed. 
Shall I rise to honor her, then her opponent will remain stupe- 
fied, and should I not rise, there is a rule that the wife ofa 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 49 


scholar must be treated in the same manner as the scholar him- 
self. Hethen helped himself out of the difficulty by instructing 
his servant, thus: Throw a duckling upon my head as soon as 
the wife Huna enters, so that I will have to rise anyhow. But 
did not the master say that at the conclusion of the trial the 
judges, all agree, are to sit while the parties must stand? (And 
how could R. Na’hman remain standing when she enters to hear 
the conclusion)? The answer is: He then sits halfways, as 
though untying his shoe-laces, and pronounces the verdict. 

Rabba b. R. Huna said: If a scholar has a case with one of 
the common people, the court may invite both to sit down, and 
if the common man remain standing, it is not necessary to re- 
peat the invitation. 

Rabh b. R. Shrabia had a case with an Amharetz (a com- 
mon) before R. Papa, and the latter invited both to sit down; 
the messenger of the court, however, came and made the Am- 
haretz to stand up, to which R. Papa said nothing. But why 
was R. Papa indifferent, could not this stupefy the opposing 
party? R. Papa thought: I, myself, invited the two to sit, and 
the act of the messenger the Amharetz may explain as due to 
the fact that he has not gratified him (the messenger). 

Rabba b. Huna said again: If a young scholar has a case 
with an Ambharetz, the former must not sit down before the 
judge appears, in order that the Amharetz should not think that 
the scholar came there to prepare his own case and send it to 
the judge; provided, however, the scholar was not usually ap 
pointed to sit in court for some other purpose, but if he was, he 
may sit down, as his opponent will think that he is there for a 
purpose other than the case. 

The same said again in the name of the same authority: If 
a scholar was aware of a case to which he could be a witness, 
but it was a humiliation to him to go to that particular court 
where the judge was inferior to him, he may remain at home. 
Said R. Sheshah b. R. Idi: This we have also learned in a 
Mishna, if one finds a sack or a basket on the way and it isa 
humiliation to him to carry it, he may leave it (in spite of the 
commandment to return a loss to its owner); but all this, he 
says, concerns civil cases; as to criminal cases, it reads [ Prov. 
xxi. 30]: ‘‘ There is no wisdom nor understanding, nor counsel 
against the Lord,’’ which means wherever there is a case of pro- 
faning the holy name, no distinction or honor must be given to 
any rabbi. | 

4 


50 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Yenai was witness to a case where Mar Zutra was one of 
the contending parties, in the court of Amemar; and latter in- 
vited all, parties and witnesses, to sit down. Said R. Ashi to 
him: Did not Ula say that only concerning the parties there is 
a difference of opinion, but concerning the witnesses all agree 
that they must stand? And he answered: This is a positive 
commandment; and to honor a scholar is also a positive com- 
mandment (inferred by R. Aqiba from the particle Eth, the 
sign of the accusations, written in ‘‘ Azz the Lord thy God thou 
shalt fear,’’ which means to add the scholar) and the latter com- 
mandment is to me of greater value. 

The rabbis taught, it reads [Exod. xxiii. 7]: ‘‘ Keep thyself 
far from a false speech’’; this signifies that the judge must not 
with his speech advocate either party, furthermore that he shall 
not enter discussion with an ignorant disciple in a case (so that 
he might not be mislead by the latter); again, that the judge, 
being aware that the party is a robber and there being only one 
witness, must not conjoin with the latter, for in this case the 
robber may be right; nor must this (conjoining) be done by any 
other person; that, if the judge notices the witnesses to testify 
falsely, he shall not say to himself: I will decide the case in 
accordance with their evidence according to the law and the 
‘* collar remain on their neck.’”’ 

From this verse is further to infer: That if a disciple saw his 
master err in his judgment, he must not say, “‘ I will wait until 
he issues his verdict and then I will disclose the error, thereby 
causing the issue of another verdict, which will have to be done 
with the acknowledgement of my authority ’’ (but must call his 
attention immediately). That the master shall not tell to his 
disciple: It is known to all that I will not lie even if offered 100 
manas, but there is one who owes me a mana, and I have only 
one witness, it is but right that you appear in court, so that the 
defendant might think you, too, a witness, and I will thus get 
my mana, although he does not instruct his disciple to tell a lie, 
but begs him to stand and say nothing, yet the verse reads, 
‘‘ Keep thyself far from false.’’ Furthermore, if the plaintiff 
claims a mana, he must not claim two, thinking that thereby he 
will cause the defendant to confess one, which partial confession 
will make him liable to a biblical oath, so that there will be pos- 
sible for the plaintiff to include here in the oath also other 
claims he may have against the defendant; this, too, is prohib- 
ited, because ‘‘ Keep thyself fav from false.’’ For the same 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 51 


reason the defendant must not say: Since the plaintiff claims 
two, and will therefore not confess even the one I owe him in 
order to avoid the biblical oath in which the plaintiff may in- . 
clude some other claims. From the said verse is further in- 
ferred: That, when three persons claim one mana from one 
party, and there are no witnesses, they shall not institute one 
of themselves as the plaintiff and the other two as witnesses, 
thereby recovering the mana and dividing it among themselves. 
Again: If two appear before the court, one richly dressed in a 
cloak worth 100 mana, and the other clad in rags, the court 
must instruct the former to go and dress like his contestant, or 
to dress him richly like one’s self (this, too, is inferred from the 
verse, because the contrast between the rich and the poor would 
stupefy latter and also possibly influence the judge).* 

It reads [Ezek. xviii. 18]: “‘ And did that which is not good 
in the midst of his people,’’ which according to Rabh means 
him who comes to court with a power of attorney, and accord- 
ing to Samuel, him who buys a field on which there are several 
claims. 

“* Such an oath... only to those fit,’’ etc. To exclude 
whom? Said R. Papa: To exclude a king, and R. Aha b. Jacob 
said: To exclude a gambler. To him who says “‘ a gambler,”’ 
so much the more a king, and to him who says ‘‘a king’’ a 
gambler is not excluded, since biblically he is fit, and only the 
rabbis have declared him unfit. 

‘* In the presence as well as in the absence of the court.’’ What 
is their point of difference? The rabbis said in the presence of 
R. Papa: The theory “‘ Deduce from it, and again from it,’’ in 
case one thing is deduced from another (z.¢., any further pro- 
vision connected with A may be transferred to Byis the theory 
of R. Mair (as explained further on). The opponents of R. 
Mair, however, hold the theory of ‘* Deduce from it, the rest, 
however, leave in its place’’ (z.¢e., after having transferred the 
main provision of A to JB, we are to let A retain its own char- 
acter); thus the case of witnesses is inferred from the case of a 
deposit; as in a deposit one is liable only when swearing him- 
self, so also in the case of witness; again, as in the former 
case it is indifferent the presence or absence of the court, so 
also with witnesses; and this is R. Mair’s theory just men- 





* There are still more significations imputed to this verse, and they have appeared 
already in Sanhedrin and Maccoth. 


52 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


tioned. The rabbis, however, who uphold the other theory, 
argue thus: As in a deposit, he is liable when swearing himself, 
so also in the case of witnesses; but if one is sworn by others 
which case can take place only in the presence of the court but 
not otherwise, we have a case that must retain its own charac- 
teristics; and the same is the case when he swears himself, it 
must be in the presence of the court. Said R. Papa to them: 
If the rabbis of the Mishna inferred this from the case of a de- 
posit, they would certainly adopt also R. Mair’s theory above 
mentioned; the reason, however, why the rabbis do not adopt 
it is that they proceed by an inference a /fortiori—viz.: since 
one is liable when sworn by others, so much the more he is 
liable, if he himself swore; and concerning this there is a rule: 
‘It is sufficient that the result derived from inference be equiva- 
lent to the law from which it is drawn;’’ and since the case of 
being sworn by others must take place only in the court, the 
same is in the case of swearing himself. 

‘““ Guilty for an intentional oath,’’ etc. Whence is this de- 
duced? From what the rabbis taught: In all other cases (con- 
cerning an offering) it reads ‘‘ Escaped his recollection,’’ except 
this case; hence, this teaches that one is liable for an intentional 
oath, just as for an unintentional. 

‘* For an error in intentional testifying,’’ etc. What instance 
could illustrate this? Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: 
If one says, I know this oath to be prohibited, but I do not 
know that the liability therefor is an offering. 

‘“ But they are not liable when made in error.’’ Shall we 
assume that this Mishna decides the question discussed above 
by R. Kahana and R. Assi, concerning the saying of Rabh made 
in the college? Nay; it was necessary for Rabh to teach them 
that, since otherwise one might say that the decision of the 
Mishna concerns only that case with regard to which the Scrip- 
ture does not mention ‘‘ Escaped,’’ etc. (¢.e., the case concern- 
ing witnesses), but it does not apply to an uttered oath regarding 
which ‘‘ Escaped ’’ is mentioned, so that any error entails liabil- 
ity; therefore he came to teach that even in such case there is 
no liability. 

MISHNA /J//.: How does a witness-oath come about? If 
someone said to two: Come and bear witness for me, and they 
say, We swear that we know no testimony for you, or they said, 
We know nothing to testify for you, whereupon he answers, Do 
you swear, and they say, Amen, they are liable. If he repeated 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 53 


this five times outside of court, and upon coming before the 

.-court they confessed and testified, they are free; but if they 
deny it also here, they are guilty for each time severally. If, 
however, he repeated his adjuration five times in presence of 
the court and they denied, they are liable but once. Said R. 
Simeon: What is the reason? Because they are not able to re- 
tract the previous statement and to testify. If the two denied 
simultaneously, they both are guilty, but if successively, only 
he who denied first is gulity, while the second one is free. If 
one of them denies and the other confesses the truth, the denier 
is guilty. If there were two parties of witnesses and both de- 
nied successively, the two are guilty, since the testimony could 
have been established by either one. , 

GEMARA: Said Samuel: If the witnesses saw one running 
after them and said to him: What are you running for, we swear 
that we know no testimony for you, they are free, as liability 
attaches only to the case when they heard him adjuring them. 

What news does Samuel come to teach us? Is this not 
plainly stated in the last part of Mishna V.—viz.: “‘ They must 
hear it from the mouth of the plaintiff’’ ? Samuel finds it nec- 
essary to teach the case where he runs after them, lest one say 
that running he considered equivalent to direct asking. But 
even this point is already stated in our Mishna—viz.: ‘‘ If one 
said,’’ which renders it obvious that if he did xo? say it is not 
considered? Nay; if not for Samuel’s statement, it could be 
said that the expression of the Mishna is merely usual language; 
and it seems, indeed, to be no more than that, for the same ex- 
pression is used in the next chapter concerning the oath ofa 
depositary, and there the ‘‘ said’’ can be meant only said, as it 
reads [Lev. v. 21]: ‘‘ If he lie unto his neighbor,’’ where there 
can be no difference whether one is asked or not; hence, the 
expression there is not particular (therefore Samuel teaches that 
in our Mishna the language is particular). | 

There is a Boraitha in accordance with Samuel: If they, 
seeing someone coming after them, exclaimed: What are you 
following us for, we know no testimony for you, they are free; 
however, when this took place with regard to a deposit, they 
are liable. 

“Tf he repeated this adjuration five times,’’ etc. Whence is 
it deduced that liability attaches only to a denial made in the 
presence of the court? Said Abayi, from [ibid., ibid. 1]: ‘‘ If 
he do not tell it, and thus bear iniquity,’’ which implies only 


54 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


such a place where the telling is effective, so as to make one pay 
upon it, but not if told in any other place. Said R. Papa to 
Abayi: According to your theory no oath should be considered 
if made outside the court! This could not be borne in mind, 
as there isa Boraitha: From the expression [ibid., ibid. 4]: ‘‘ To 
anyone,’’ which makes one liable for each oath; now, if an oath 
made outside the court be not considered, how could one be. 
liable for each, after it has been stated in our Mishna that even 
for five times he is liable but once, and R. Simeon gave the 
reason therefor? Infer then therefrom that an oath is consid- 
ered even when made outside the court, but a denial—only when 
in the court. 

““ Tf the two dented simultaneously,’’ etc. But how is it possi- 
ble to ascertain with precision the simultaneity of their minds? 
Said R. ’Hisda: It is in accordance with R. Jose the Galilean, 
who says that it is possible. R. Johanan, however, maintains 
that this may also be in accordance with the rabbis, who hold 
that such is not possible, but our Mishna treats of the case 
where the two denied in an interval of a single word. Said R. 
Aha of Diphti to Rabina: Let us see; the length of an interval 
of a single word is estimated as the interval it takes a disciple to 
greet his master, and here they have to say: We swear that we 
know no testimony for you, which sentence consists of several 
words; and he answered: It means that each of the witnesses 
begins his testimony yet before his preceding witness has com- 
pleted his. 

‘* Both dented successively,’’ etc. Our Mishna is not in ac- 
cordance with the Tana of the following Boraitha: If one adjured 
one witness, he is free; R. Elazar b. R. Simeon, however, holds 
him liable. Now, shall we assume that the point of difference 
here is that one holds one witness serves only to cause an oath 
to the other party, and that the other holds that he can also 
cause the payment of money? But how can you reason thus? 
Does not Abayi say further on that all agree that only one wit- 
ness is necessary in the case where the defendant is suspicious 
regarding an oath? Therefore, it must be said that all agree 
that one witness can cause only an oath but not payment, and 
the point of their difference is as follows: One holds that a thing 
which causes payment is itself considered as money, and accord- 
ing to the other it is not considered such. 

What has Abayi said? He said as follows: All agree con- 
cerning ove witness in the case of a suspected wife; likewise all 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 55 


agree concerning two witnesses in same; and furthermore there 
is a difference of opinion concerning the same case. All agree 
concerning the law of one witness, as well as concerning the law 
regarding the case where the opposing party is suspicious of per- 
jury. All agree concerning one witness in the case of a sus- 
pected wife that he is liable in case he was aware of the fact that 
the woman has sinned and refused to testify, as here the law 
trusts him to testify [Numb. v. 13]: ‘“‘ And there be no witness 
against her,’’ hence, his refusal makes the husband pay; and all 
agree concerning witnesses that they are free, if they refused to 
testify that he warned his wife against staying alone with so and 
so; as their testimony would only cause not a direct payment, 
since apart from their testimony there must be yet another tes- 
timony by two witnesses that she has actually stayed with 
another one. And there is a difference concerning witnesses in 
such a case; if they were witnesses regarding her staying alone 
with so and so and they refused to testify; in which case if they 
did testify, they would only necessitate the drinking by her of 
the bitter water, when for fear she may confess, and only then 
the husband would be free from paying her marriage contract; 
it is regarding this that one holds that a thing causing the pay- 
ment of money is itself considered as money, and therefore they 
are liable to pay, while the other does not consider it such, 
therefore they are free. Furthermore, all agree concerning a 
case where there is but one witness and one of the parties is sus- 
pected .of perjury, that the witness is liable; likewise they all 
agree concerning one witness in a case similar to that, which 
happened in the court of R. Aha, where one of the parties 
robbed a piece of metal (Last Gate, p. 93). 

(Says the Gemara): Let us see how was the case where one 
party is suspected of perjury? Who was suspected? If the 
borrower was so, and the lender says to the witness: If you 
would testify I should surely get the money, for my opponent 
is not fit to swear, hence, the oath will return to me so that 
J would swear and get the money; then the witness could retort: 
Who is sure that you will swear? Therefore we must say that 
both the parties were suspected, and the Master said elsewhere 
that in such a case the oath applies to him who has to swear 
first, and as he is not fit to swear he must pay. 

R. Papa said: There is also a case concerning a witness who 
refuses to testify to the death of a husband; in one case all 
agree that he is liable, and in another case all agree that he is 


56 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


free; the latter is illustrated thus: If he told the fact to the 
widow, but refused to testify before the court, he is free; be- 
cause there is a Mishna: If a woman said that her husband is 
dead, she is trusted and may remarry (hence, his refusal to 
testify is not harmful to her); while the former case is illus- 
trated: If he refused to tell the fact even to the wife herself. 
Now, shall we infer from this that he who makes witnesses to 
swear in a case of real estate, it is considered, and they have 
to pay (as a marriage contract is collected from real estate only, 
and there is further on a question concerning this point)? Nay; 
perhaps in the hands of this woman it was already movable 
property, in which case she may collect her contract therefrom. 

‘* Tf one of them dentes and the other confesses,’’ etc. To what 
purpose is this stated? It has been said already above, that 
even if the second denied after the first he is free, so much the’ 
more so if he confessed? It means when both have denied, but 
one has instantly thereafter retracted and confessed; and it 
comes to teach us that the confession made in an interval of one 
word is considered as though no denial was made. But this is 
correct only according to R. ’Hisda, who has explained our 
Mishna in accordance with Jose the Galilean; then the first part 
teeaches that exact ascertainment is possible, and the second 
part teaches that the one-word interval is equivalent to a word. 
But according to R. Johanan both parts teach the same? It 
was necessary, as the last case speaks of denial and confession, 
while the first, only of denial. 

‘* Tf there were two parties,’’ etc. It is correct that the sec- 
ond party be liable, because it denied after the first had done so 
(hence, its refusal is a direct harm); but why should the first 
party be liable, when there is yet a second party who is fit to 
testify? Said Rabina: It speaks of a case where the witnesses 
of the second party were related to one another on their wives’ 
lines, and at that time when the first party denied, the wives of 
the other party were in the agony of death; and lest one say 
that in such a condition they are considered dead and hence 
their husbands are fit to be witnesses and consequently the first 
party is free, it comes to teach us that the agony of death is not 
to be taken into account, as they may yet recover. 

MISHNA /J///.: If one says: I adjure you that you come 
and bear me witness that I have in the possession of so and so 
a deposit, a loan, a stolen or lost object, to which they reply: 
We swear that we know no testimony to you, they are guilty 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 57 


but once. But if their reply be: We swear that we are ignorant 
of your having in the possession of so and so a deposit, etc., they 
are guilty for each severally. I adjure you that you testify for 
me that I have deposited by so and so wheat, barley and rye, to 
which they answer: We swear that we know no testimony for 
you, so they are guilty but once. But if their answer be: We 
swear that we are ignorant of your having deposited by so and 
so wheat, barley and rye, they are guilty for each one severally. 
I swear you to witness that so and so owes me damages, half 
damages, double payment, or four and five-fold payment; that 
so and so insulted my daughter, seduced my daughter; that my 
son struck me, that my neighbor wounded me; set fire to my 
stag on the day of atonement, they are guilty (in case they 
deny). 

GEMARA: The schoolmen propounded a question: How 
is the law, if one adjure witnesses in a case of fine? This 
question is not according to R. Elazar b. R. Simeon, who says 
elsewhere that such witnesses are considered even after the de- 
fendant has confessed that he was fined; but is according to the 
rabbis, who declare the defendant free even when, after his con- 
fession, witnesses testified; and it seems that the rabbis of that 
statement are in accordance with the rabbis of the Mishna said 
above, that a thing causing money is not itself considered 
money. Now, shall we say that the refusal of the witnesses is 
not of direct harm, since the defendant has the choice to confess 
and then he is free; or, as he has not yet confessed, there is a 
claim of money and their refusal is of direct harm? Come and 
hear the statement of our Mishna: “‘ To testify half-damages,”’ 
which is a fine and nevertheless he is liable. But is there not 
one who says that even half-damages are according to law and 
not fine? (Hence, nothing can be inferred from here.) But 
again, does not the Mishna mention double-amount, which is 
surely fine? Yea; but the fine here is the doubling, while the 
Mishna finds him liable because in the doubling is included the 
amount stolen; and the same may be the case with four and 
five-fold. But is not the money which a seducer or insulter has 
to pay, not a fine, and yet the Mishna treats of it? Maybe the 
Mishna exacts this as indemnity for the shame and loss of value, 
and this indemnity is not a fine. But if all in the Mishna is 
money and not mere fine why should it repeat all these cases? 
The Mishna comes in its first part to teach us by the way that 
half-damages are considered money, and in its last part that if 


58 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


one set fire to a stag on the day of atonement, he is liable to 
pay, although his act is in the category of Korath, which is 
against R. Neheunia b. Hakana (and all the other things are 
treated of only on account of this connection). 

Come and hear the following: I adjure you to testify that so 
and so has spread abroad an evil name on my daughter [Deut. 
xxii. 14], they are liable (if they refuse to do so); but if the 
man who has spread the evil name, confessed before the court 
that he did so falsely, he is free from paying the 100 shekkels 
(as according to the law he who confesses in a case subject to 
fine is free), hence, we see that this money is fine and they are 
liable none the less? It may be said that this Mishna is in 
accordance with R. Elazar b. Simeon, quoted above, who holds 
one liable even when the witnesses testify after his confession. 
But is not the last part which holds one free if he confessed on 
his own accord, in accordance with the rabbis? Nay; the whole 
Mishna is in accordance with R. Elazar, and it means to say 
that there can be found no case where one be free from payment 
(of the 100 shekkels) unless there were no witnesses at all and 
he confessed. 

MISHNA/V.: If one says: I adjure you to bear me witness 
that I am a priest, a Levite, not the son of a divorced woman, 
nor one who has performed Chalitzah ; that so and so is a priest, 
a Levite, not the son of an aforesaid woman; that so and so in- 
sulted or seduced someone’s daughter; that my son wounded 
me, that my neighbor wounded me or set fire to my stag on 
Sabbath, they are free. 

GEMARA: They are free because his claim concerns a third 
person; but how is it if he made them to swear that so and so 
owes a mana to someone, they would be liable? And does not 
the Mishna state that they are not liable unless made to swear 
by the plaintiff himself? Said Samuel: It means that he has 
from the latter a power of attorney. But did not the sages of 
Nahardea say that a judgment is not given on movables? Yea; 
but this is in case he denies, but if he does not deny, a judgment 
is given. 

The rabbis taught: Whence do we know that the verse [Lev. 
v. 1], quoted above, speaks of a money-claim only? Said R. 
Eliezar: From the analogy of expression “‘ or’’ and ‘‘ no’’ found 
here, and also in the case of a deposit, and as there it treats of 
a civil case, so also here. But is not the same expression found 
in [Numb. xxxv.] concerning a murder, 2.¢., a criminal and not 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 59 


a civil case? We infer from these expressions, a case which im- 
plies an oath, while in that (of Numb.) there is no oath. But. 
again, are not such expressions used in connection with a sus- 
pected woman in which case there is an oath, and yet it is not 
a civil case? There is used in this last case a priest, wherefor 
we infer but like cases where there is an oath but not a priest. 
‘R. Agiba, however, said: It is inferred from [Lev. v. 5]: ‘‘ By 
any one of ¢hese,’’ which means for some of them he is, while 
for others he is not, liable. How so? If it was a civil claim, 
he is liable, but not for something else. R. Jose the Galilean 
said, it reads [Lev. v. 1]: ‘‘ And he is a witness, since he hath 
either seen or knoweth,’’ which signifies such cases where he 
may be liable by seeing only or by knowing only; how so? I 
have lent you a mana in the presence of such and such witnesses, 
who may come and testify, this is a case of seeing only; and 
by knowing only, as in case one claims that so and so has con- 
fessed in the presence of such and such witnesses that he owes 
me a mana. R. Simeon said: We infer this from the case of 
deposit: as there it is only civil, so also here; furthermore we 
may draw this by an inference a fortzori—viz.: a deposit, with 
regard to which male and female, relatives and unrelated, fit and 
unfit to testify, are equal, and there is a liability for each oath, 
be it made in the presence or absence of the court, is neverthe- 
less but a civil case—the case of witnesses where the foregoing 
classes are not equal and where the liability attaches to but one 
oath and only when made in the presence of the court, should 
so much the more be only civil. And lest one say: The case of 
witnesses is more rigorous, as there is here a liability for an inten- 
tional and for being sworn by others which is not the case con- 
cerning a deposit, to this there is an analogy of expression: 
‘‘ Sin ’’ found here and also in the case of a deposit, which justi- 
fies the inference that as the latter is civil, so also is the other case. 

R. Hamnuna was once in the presence of R. Jehudah, who 
propounded a question. If one says: I have lent you a mana 
in the presence of soand so and so, and the witnesses saw the par- 
ties from the outside without being seen by the defendant, how is 
the case? Said R. Hamnuna: It depends on the form of the 
defendant’s answer; if he says that such has never occurred, he 
must be recognized as a liar; but if he says that he did take 
money but it-was his own, then there will be no use in the wit- 
nesses’ testifying to have seen this! Rejoined R. Jehudah: 
Your place may be in the college, as you enlighten your master. 


60 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


There was one claiming: I lent you a mana here near this 
pillar; and the answer was: I have never in my life passed near 
this pillar. Witnesses, however, came and testified that he once 
urinated near that pillar; said R. Na’hman: He is then to be 
regarded a liar. Said Rabha to him: From a thing where one 
is not particular, his attention may wander away; this may have 
been the case with this defendant; he paid in that case no atten- 
tion to the pillar. 

R. Simeon said: As in the case of the deposit, etc., this 
statement was ridiculed in the west. Why? When R. Papa 
and R. Jehudah b. R. Jehoshua came from college, they said: 
The people of ‘the west have ridiculed R. Simeon’s last state- 
ment—viz.: Lest one say that the case of witnesses is more 
rigorous, etc.; saying: To what purpose did he need this after 
he had used an analogy of expression? But why should it be 
ridiculed? Perhaps he had put this point before, but not after, 
he established the said analogy?* Because it was known that 
the Scripture has made mention of a witness-oath in connection 
both with an uttered oath, and with the case of defiling the 
Temple and its holiness in order to indicate that concerning a 
witness-oath ‘“‘ Escaped his recollection ’’ is not stated (whereas 
it is stated regarding the others) in order to make one liable to 
a sin-offering even for such an zutentzonal oath. 

MISHNA V.: If one says: I adjure you to bear me witness 
that so and so has promised to give me (as a present) 200 zuz, 
and did not, they are free, as they are guilty only in the case 
when money is required as a deposit. I adjure you that as 
soon as you become cognisant of testimony for me, you come 
and testify for me, they are free, since the oath preceded the 
act of testifying. When one says while standing in synagogue: 
I adjure you to bear me witness if you are cognizant thereof, so 
they are free unless he especially address his challenge to them. 
When one says to two: I adjure you so and so that, if you are 
cognisant of testimony in my favor, come and do so, to which 
they say: We swear that we know nothing for you, while in 
reality they do know, but only indirectly, or one of them is 
found to be a relative or an unfit, they are free. If one sends 
his servant to adjure them; or the defendant says to the wit- 





* In the text is also repeated what Rabha b. Aithi said above to contradict R. 
Simeon, which is followed again by a discussion. But it being very complicated and 
apparently offering nothing new, we omit the few lines, 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 6x 


nesses: I adjure you to testify for him if you know any testi- 
mony, they are free, for they must hear it from the mouth of 
the plaintiff. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: I adjure you to bear me 
witness that so and so promised me as a present 100 zuz and 
did not give them to me, they are free; lest one say that they 
should be liable, the analogy of expression “‘ sin’’ used both 
concerning a deposit and here, teaches that as in the former the 
deposit was given, so also in this case. | 

““ As soon as you become cognisant,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: 
Lest one say that in such a case they should be liable, it reads, 
‘If he is a witness, or hath seen or knoweth,’’ which signifies 
that the act of testifying must precede the oath and not vice 
versa. : 
‘“‘ While standing in synagogue,’’ etc. Said Samuel: Even if 
his witnesses were among them. Is this not self-evident? He 
means to say: Even if he was standing beside them, and lest 
one say that in such a case it is considered as though he talked 
directly to them, he comes to teach us that it is not so. 

There is a Boraitha in support of Samuel: If one saw a crowd 
standing, among whom he recognized his witnesses and said: I 
adjure you to come and testify for me, lest one say that they are 
liable, it reads, ‘‘ And he is a witness,’’ which signifies that the 
witnesses must be directly addressed, which he did not do. If, 
however, he said: I adjure you all who are standing here, to 
testify for me, they are liable, as here he addresses the witnesses 
directly. 

‘““ When one says to two,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: Lest one 
say that in such a case they should be liable, it read, ‘‘ He shall 
bear his iniquity,’’ which signifies that only then when they are 
fit to tell (on their own knowledge). 

‘“ If one sends his servant,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: Lest 
one say that in such a case they should be liable, therefore the 
just-cited verse. But how is this to be understood? Said R. 
Elazar: The word ‘‘ not’’ (Hebrew, Zo) is spelled here with a 
redundant vahve and /o (with a vahve) means him (dativus) which 
is to be interpreted thus: If he will not tell to him, to the party 
himself, he bears iniquity; but if he will not tell to a stranger, 
he is free. 

MISHNA V/Z.: If one says: I adjure you, I impose upon 
you, I bind you (by oath), so they are guilty. If, however, he 
says: By heaven and earth, they are free; by any of the divine 


62 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


names, or by some other divine attribute, so they are guilty. 
Blaspheme applies to them all, according to R. Mair, but not 
according to the sages. Whoever curses his father or mother 
by any of the above divine names, is guilty, so holds R. Mair, 
while the sages declare him free. Whoever curses himself or 
his neighbor by any of these transgresses a negative command. 
(If one says to the witness): Smite you God, or: May the Lord 
God smite you, so is this a biblical swearing. If he says (on 
your testifying): God smite you not, but bless you, may He 
bestow but good upon you (and they say: Amen), R. Mair 
finds them guilty, while the sages declare them free. 

GEMARA: “‘ J adjure you,’’ etc. How is this to be under- 
stood? Said R. Jehudah: Thus, I adjure you with the oath 
written in the Torah, I impose upon you with the commands of 
the Torah, I bind you with the bonds of the Torah. Said Abayi 
to him: According to you, how should be understood the Bo- 
raitha of R. Hyya: ‘* For I chain you’’ they are liable! Do we 
find ‘‘chaining’’ in the Torah? Therefore, said Abayi, it means 
to say thus: I adjure you with an oath, I impose upon you with 
an oath, I bind you with an oath, I chain you with an oath. 

‘** Adonai,’’ etc. Shall we assume that chanun and rachum 
(mentioned in the Mishna among the names to swear by) are 
also divine names? If so, then there is a contradiction from the 
following: There are names that may be erased, and others that 
“must not; the latter are: E7/, Eloéchu, Eloim, Eloéchem, Eiéh 
asher Ezeh, Aleph Daleth, Yah, Shadai and Zebaoth,; but Hago- 
dal, Haytbor, Hanora, Haddir, Hachazak, Haématz, Hadzaz, 
Chanun, Rachum, Erech-apiim, Rabh-chessed* may be erased; 
we see thus that chanun and rachum are not divine names? Said 
Abayi: The Mishna means to say, I adjure you by him who is 
all favor, or: all merciful. Said Rabha to him: If so, let him 
be liable for adjuring one by heaven and earth, as you could 
explain it to mean: by him to whom heaven and earth belong? 
This is no comparison; if you say, ‘‘ by him who is all favor,’’ 
etc., so as there is none but the Almighty who is such, it cer- 
tainly means Him, but heaven and earth as separate existences, 
cannot be explained as belonging. 

The rabbis taught: If one writes Aleph lamed (the first letters 





* The divine names, from £7/ till Zedaoth inclusive, are known, while those from 
Hagodal till Rabh-chessed inclusive, mean in order as follows: The Great, Mighty, 
Awe-inspiring, Glorious, Strong, Omnipotent, Powerful, Gracious, Merciful, Long- 
suffering, and Abundant in beneficence. 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 63 


from Eloim), or Yak from /ehova, it must not be erased; but 
Shin daleth from Shadat, or Aleph daleth from Adonat, Zadik 
beth from Zebaoth, may be erased. Said R. Jose: The whole 
word Zebaoth may be erased, for this name applies only to 
Israel, as it reads [Exod. vii. 4]: ‘“ And bring forth my armies 
(Zebaothat), my people, the children of Israel.’’ Said Samuel: 
The Halakha does not prevail with R. Jose. 

The rabbis taught: All the prefixes and suffixes of the divine 
names may be erased, ¢.g., in b’adonat, badonat, meadonat, the 
initial letters (which are prefixes) may be erased; in like manner 
in Eloéchu, Eloénu Eloéem the last syllables (which. are suffixes) 
may be erased. Anonymous teachers, however, say: They 
must not be so, for they are already sanctified by the holy name. 
Said R. Hana: And so the Halakha prevails. 

All the divine names found in the Torah in connection with 
Abraham, are holy, except that of [Gen. xviii. 3]: ‘‘ And he 
said, my Lord,’’ which was addressed to an angel. ’Hanina, 
the nephew of R. Jehoshua, and R. Elazar b. Azaria in the 
name of Elazar the Madai say that even this name, too, is holy. 
(Now, what was said in the name of R. Jehudah b. Rabh that 
hospitality is considered greater than the reception of the glory 
of the Shechina, is in accordance with these two.) Furthermore, 
all the names found in connection with Lot, are common, ex- 
cept [ibid. xix. 18, 19]: “‘ Oh, not so, my Lord; (Adonaz) thy 
servant hath found grace in thy eyes, and thou hast magnified 
thy kindness,’’ etc., and who but God can save? Again, all 
names in connection with Nob’oth* are holy, those in connec- 
tion with Micha [Jud. xvii.] are common. R. Elazar, however, 
said that the names with Nob’oth are holy, but those with 
Micha are partly holy and partly common, namely Z/ is com- 
mon and Yak is holy, except [ibid., ibid. 31]: ‘‘ Bloim,’’ which 
though beginning with Z/, is holy. All the names in connection 
with the Vale of Benjamin [ibid. xx.] are according to R. Eliezar 
common, and according to R. Jehoshua they are holy. Said 
R. Eliezar to him: How can they be holy when He has not ful- 
filled his promise? Said R. Jehoshua: He has fulfilled His 
promise, but the people there did not understand what was said 
to them; a proof to this you find in the fact that after they had 
- comprehended it, they conquered, as it reads [ibid., ibid. 28]: 
‘“ And Phineahas, the son of Elazar ... stood,’’ etc. The 





* I Kings xxi. 3. 


64 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


name Skelomah wherever mentioned in Solomon's Songs is holy 
[Song, i. 1]: “‘ Le-Shelomah’’ means, to the king to whom peace 
belongs; except [ibid. vii. 12]: ‘“ Thine, O Solomon.’’ Ac- 
cording to others [ibid. iii. 7]: ‘‘ The bed which is Solomon’s,”’ 
is also common. Wherever in Daniel the word king is men- 
tioned, it is common except [Sam. ii. 37]: “‘ Thou, O king, art 
a king of kings, to whom the God of heaven hath given king- 
dom, power, and strength, and honor.’’ According to others 
also [ibid. iv. 16]: ‘“ My Lord! . . . for those who hate thee”’ ; 
for, to whom did Daniel address this? Surely not to Nebuchad- 
nezzar, because by so doing he would curse Israel, who were the 
haters of the same; hence, he must have addressed it to God. 
The first Tana, however, maintains that enemies exist only to 
Israel, but other nations have no enemies. 

‘* Or by some other attributes,’’ etc. There is a contradiction 
[Numb. v. 21]: ‘‘ The Lord then make thee a curse (o/ah) and 
an oath’’; to what purpose is this repeated, after the beginning 
of the verse reads: ‘‘ And the priest shall charge the woman 
with an oath of imprecation (o/ak)’’? Because, it reads [Lev. 
v. I]: “‘ The voice of adjuration (o/ah),’’ where it means an oath, 
so also here it means an oath; and as there it means ‘‘ with the 
holy name,’’ so here, too, it means so. Hence we see that olah 
means an oath, and the Mishna says that ‘‘ Smite you God’”’ is 
an o/ah written in the Torah? Said Abayi: This presents no 
difficulty, the cited discussion is in accordance with R. Hanina 
b. Aidi, which our Mishna is in accordance with the rabbis, as 
we have learned in the following Boraitha. R. Hanina b. Aidi 
said: As it reads “‘ Swear and not swear, curse and not curse,”’ 
we must compare curse to swearing; just as an oath means by 
the holy name, so also not to swear means by the holy name, 
and the same is with curse and not curse. But let us see; what 
is the reason of the rabbis’ view? If they uphold this analogy, 
then let them require the unique holy name (z2.e., Jehovah) to 
any oath; and if they do not uphold this analogy, whence do 
they deduce that o/ak means an oath? From the following 
Boraitha: The expression o/ah means an oath, and it likewise 
reads in the above-cited verse ‘‘ And the priest shall charge the 
woman with an oath of o/ah.’’ But as it reads here “‘ with the 
oath of o/ah,’’ must we not say that o/ah itself is not an oath? 
It means to say that the word o/ah comes together with an oath 
only. And whence do we know that oath alone should be 
treated as if conjoined with o/ah? From [Lev. v. 1]: ‘* The 











TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 65 


voice of an olah’’ (which word voice would be superfluous, as 
olah alone means also an oath), therefore it is to be interpreted 
thus: He hears either a voice alone (without an o/ah), or an olah 
alone (without an oath). 

R. Abuhu said: Whence do we know that o/ak means an 
oath? From [Ezek. xvii. 13]: ‘‘ And bound him with an oath 
(olah)’’; furthermore, it reads [II] Chron. xxxvi. 13]: ‘“ Who 
had made him swear by God.”’ There is a Boraitha: The word 
orar embraces ban (uzduz), curse (kelabah), and oath (sheb’uah) ; 
ban—from [Jud. v. 23]: ‘‘ Curse (orur) ye Meroz,’’ etc., con- 
cerning which Ula said: He placed Meroz under ban with 400 
trumpets; curse—from [Deut. xxviil. 13]: ‘‘ And these shall 
stand for the sake of the curse (Aelabah),’’ and [ibid., ibid. 15]: 
‘“* Cursed (orur) be the man’’; finally, oath—from [Josh. vi. 26]: 
‘* And Joshua adjured . . . saying cursed,’’ etc.; and also from 
[I Sam. xiv. 24]: “‘ And Saiil adjured the people, saying, 
cursed.’” 

R. Jose b. Hanina said: Amen embraces oath, acceptance, 
and confidence; oath—from [Numb. v. 22]: ‘‘ And the woman 
shall say amen, amen’’; acceptance—from [Deut. xxvii. 26]: 
‘“Cursed be he that accepteth not this law... and all the 
people shall say, amen’’; and confidence—from [Jerem. xxviii. 
6]: “‘ Said Jeremiah the Prophet, amen, may the Lord do so.’’ 

R. Elazar said: Nay means an oath, and yea means also an 
oath. (Says the Gemara): It is‘correct that Nay means an oath, 
as it reads [Gen. ix. 15]: ‘‘ And the waters shall no more (V’d) 
become a flood,’’ and [Isa. liv. 9]: “‘ As I have sworn that the 
waters of Noah should no more (V’’/o)’; but whence do we know 
that yea is an oath? This ismerely common sense: if Nay is an 
oath yea is one, too. Said Rabha: Provided he says each twice; 
nay, nay, or yea, yea; and this is inferred from the above cited 
verse [Gen. ix.] where no (V’’/o) is written twice, and as Nay 
must be said twice to become an oath, so also yea.* 

‘‘ Curses himself or his neighbor,’’ etc. Said R. Janai: Con- 
cerning this statement, all agree that he transgress thereby a 
negative commandment; concerning one’s self it reads [Deut. 
iv. 9]: ‘* Only take heed to thyself, and guard thy soul’’; and 
we have seen above that such an expression means a negative 
commandment; and concerning his neighbor, it reads [Lev. xix. 
14]: ‘‘ Thou shalt not curse the deaf.’’ 





* Concerning blasphemy repeated here, see Sanhedrin, Chap. VII., Mish. 8. 


66 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


“* Smite you God,’’ etc. R. Kahana, while sitting before R. 
Jehudah, repeated the Mishna in its own language, and he said 
to him: Change the language and use it in the third person. It 
again happened that one of the rabbis while sitting before 
R. Kahana read [Psalms, lii. 7]: ‘‘ God will also destroy thee,’’ 
etc., the whole verse, and R. Kahana said to him: Read it in 
the third person. And the two cases are cited here, lest one 
say that in a Mishna it is allowed to change the language but 
not in the Scripture. 

““ God smite you not,’’ etc. But we know that according to 
R. Mair’s theory we do not infer from a negative rule a positive 
one; reverse then the order of the names in the Mishna. How- 
ever, when R. Itz’hak came from Palestine he taught the Mishna 
as it is. Said R. Joseph: Now that we see that in Palestine, 
too, the Mishna is taught as by us, the foregoing difficulty must 
be resolved thus: R. Mair’s theory that we are not to infer yeas 
from nays, concerns only civil cases, but concerning criminal 
cases he, too, holds that we do. But is not the case of a sus- 


pected woman acrime,.and R. Tan’hum b. ’Hakhinui said: In | 


this case it reads [Numb. v. 19]: ‘‘ Then be thou free’’ to show 
that if it were not expressly stated we would not infer? Hence, 
even in criminal cases we do not infer, wherefor we must say 
that R. Mair’s theory applies also to crimes and the order of the 
names in the Mishna is to be reversed. Rabina opposed from 
a Mishna that places under the category of capital punishment 
him who enters the sanctuary while he is intoxicated, and this 
is inferred only from the Scripture’s prohibiting one to enter in 
such a condition, and R. Mair does not oppose in this case? 
Therefore we must say that concerning crime he holds his the- 
ory, and the difficulty regarding the suspected woman is to be 
resolved, thus: it is a case where money, 7.¢., a civil matter, is 
also concerned—viz.: in connection with her marriage contract. 














Tastee ee is Oa ibe aoe 4 teem 
ae > - 7 wt Swe 

3 Pee. oe eae 

<= (gir wna Pils “s PE ee ee fee x 








CHAPTER. .N. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE DEPOSITORY-OATH : WHO 
IS OR IS NOT FIT TO TAKE IT; WHERE THE DENIAL OF THE 
DEPOSIT BY OATH MUST TAKE PLACE; THE CONDITIONS DETER- 
MINING THE LIABILITY TO BE EITHER ONE OR FOR EACH ARTICLE 
SEPARATELY ; IN WHICH RESPECT SUCH OATH IS MORE RIGOROUS 
THAN THE WITNESS OATH. | 


MISHNA JZ.: The depository oath concerns men and women, 
non-kindred and kindred, those fit to testify and those unfit, 
cases. within the court and outside thereof, provided it comes 
forth from one’s own mouth, but if through that of others, he 
is not liable unless he denies it before the court; such is R. 
Mair’s view, while the sages teach: Regardless of whether it 
comes from one’s own mouth or from that of others, he is guilty 
so long as he denies it. But one is guilty for willful perjury and 
willful denial of the deposit when ignorant of the liability; not 
so, however, if he was mistaken concerning the oath only. And 
what is the fine attached to a willful oath? A trangression offer- 
ing in the value of two shekkels. How does the oath concern- 
ing deposits take place? When one says: Give me my deposit 
that I have in your possession, and latter replies thereto: I 
swear you have nothing with me, or merely: You have nothing 
with me, whereupon the former says: I adjure you, and this 
answers: Amen, and so he is guilty. If the plaintiff adjured 
him five times either before court or outside and he denied it 
by oath every time, so he is guilty for each time severally. R. 
Simeon said: The reason is that he had ample possibility to con- 
fess the truth. If five people require of him in the same time, 
saying: Give us the deposit we have in your possession, and he 
says: I swear ye have nothing with me, so he is guilty but once. 
But if he says: I swear that thou hast nothing with me, nor 
thou you, nor thou, so he is guilty for each one severally. R. 
Eliezar says: Provided he make the oath last. R. Simeon says: 
Provided he accompany each statement with the words I swear. 


If one says: Give me the deposit, the loan, the stolen and 
67 


68 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


lost, that I have in your possession, he replies: I swear that you 
have nothing with me, he is guilty but once. If, however, his 
reply be: I swear that you have nothing with me, either de- 
posit, or loan, or the robbed and lost, so he is guilty for each 
one severally. The same is the case with wheat, barley, and if 
he denies all with one oath he is guilty but once, and if he re- 
peated “‘ I swear ’’ with each one, he is liable for each. R. Mair 
says: Even if he required the things in the singular, the other 
one is guilty for each one severally. If one says: You have vio- 
lated or seduced my daughter and he replies: I have done 
neither the one nor the other, I adjure you whereto he says: 
Amen, so he is guilty. R. Simeon holds him free, for one does 
not pay fine on his own confession. To which it was objected: 
Although upon self-confession one pays no fine, yet he must 
pay indemnity for shame and loss of value. You have stolen 
my ox; I have not stolen him; I adjure you, the other one: 
Amen, so he is guilty. But if the latter says: True, I have 
stolen your ox, but not slaughtered nor sold him; I adjure you; 
Amen, so he is free. Your ox has killed mine; He did not; I 
adjure you; Amen, so he is guilty. Your ox has killed my 
slave; He did not; I adjure you; Amen, soheisfree. You have 
bruised me and wounded me; I have neither bruised nor wounded 
you; Iadjure you; Amen, so he is guilty. But if the slave says 
to his master: You have blown out my eye or tooth, and latter 
replies: I have done to you neither the one nor the other; I 
adjure you; Amen, so he is free. This is the general rule: 
Whenever one has to pay damages on self-confession, he is (in 
case of perjury) guilty, but whenever he has not to pay on self- 
confession, he is free. 

GEMARA: R. A’hra b. Huna, R. Samuel b. Rabba b. b. 
"Hana and R. Itz’hak b. R. Jehudah have been learning the 
Tract Shebaoth at Rabba’s college; and when R. Kahana met 
them he asked: What is the law when one has intentionally 
made a‘ depository oath in spite of a warning, is he liable toa 
sin-offering or not? Shall we assume that, as this law to bring 
a sin-offering for an intentional oath is novel, there is no differ- 
ence whether there was warning or not, or this law holds good 
only when there was no warning, and if there was, he is subject to 
stripes and not toasin-offering, orto both? And they answered: 
This we have learned in our Mishna; the depository oath is 
more rigorous, as stripes apply to it when intentional, and a 
trespass-offering for two shekkels when unintentional. Now, as 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 69 


it states stripes, it must be that he was warned, and no offering 
is mentioned; and concerning the rigorousness it may be said 
that one is pleased to bring a sin-offering instead of getting 
stripes. Said Rabba b. Ejithi to them: This is in accordance 
_ with R. Simeon, who holds that an intentional depository-oath 
cannot be atoned for, but according to the rabbis who maintain 
that it can, he must bring an offering also. Said R. Kahana to 
them: Leave out the Boraitha cited by you, as I taught it Thus; 
it makes no difference whether it was intentional or uninten- 
tional, he is liable to a trespass-offering for two shekkels; and 
the rigorousness is that for any other oath he may bring a sin- 
offering in the value of a davzxos, while here it must be in the 
value of two shekkels. But then, why did R. Kahana resolve 
his question from here? Because this may be a case where there 
was no warning. , 

According to another'version R. Kahana adduced the follow- 
ing Boraitha: No liability attaches to an unintentional oath; and 
what is the liability"of an intentional? A trespass-offering for 
two shekkels. Does it not mean a case where there was warn- 
ing? Nay; it may mean one without warning. Come and hear 
another Boraitha: The comparison with the offering of a Naza- 
rite cannot be drawn here, as a Nazarite who defiles himself gets 
stripes in addition, while to a depository-oath stripes do not 
apply; now, since it states that he does get stripes he must have 
been warned, and nevertheless it states that to a depository-oath 
stripes do not apply, whence it is to be understood that an offer- 
ing is required in this case? Nay; it may be said that it means 
that stripes do not suffice without an offering. But if such be 
the case, the Nazarite who gets stripes must not bring an offer- 
ing any more; is it not expressly written that he zs liable to an 
offering? His offering is not for his transgression, but for en- 
abling him to continue in his state of a Nazarite in purity. 

R. Kahana’s question from above was recited before Rabba 
and he said: From this it may be inferred that, if he was not 
warned by the witnesses, and they testify, he is nevertheless 
liable to a sin-offering; but if such a case happens in civil law, 
his denial would count for nothing, and there are witnesses and 
he must pay; why then shall he in this case be liable to a sin- 
offering? (Says the Gemara): From Rabba’s question we may 
conclude that his opinion is that he who denies a debt in spite 
of witnesses is not subject to a biblical oath. Said R. ’Hanina 
to Rabba: The following Boraitha supports your opinion. It 


70 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


reads [Lev. v. 22]: ‘‘ And lie concerning it’’ to exclude the case 
when he confesses this to one of the brothers or partners, ‘‘ swear 
falsely’’ to exclude the case where there were documents or 
witnesses. And he answered: If you have in the Boraitha no 
other support but this, it is no support to me at all, as this Bor- 
aitha is to be interpreted thus: If the defendant says, I have 
borrowed from you but not in the presence of witnesses, or not 
on any document (hence, the Boraitha has in view not denial 
but confession); and this interpretation is necessitated by the 
expression of this Boraitha “‘ To one of the brothers ’’; because 
how was the case? If he confessed the half of the amount, then 
there is a complete denial of the other half; thus we must say 
that the confession to one of the brothers means that the denial 
was not concerning the amount, but springing from his assertion 
that he made the loan of one of the brothers only, so that it is 
but a denial of words, and as the first part of the Boraitha means 
a denial of words and not of the amount, so also the second 
part. 

Come and hear. It was said above: He is not liable for its 
unintentional; and what is the liability for an intentional? A 
trespass-offering, etc. Shall we not assume that it means a case 
where there were witnesses warning him? Nay, it means that 
there were no witnesses. Come and hear another objection. If 
the depository claims that the deposit has been stolen from him, 
swears, but thereafter confesses, and there are also witnesses to 
this effect, it depends on the following: if the witnesses come 
after he has sworn, he must pay double amount and bring a 
trespass-offering; but if he has confessed before the appearance 
of the witnesses he has to pay the amount plus one-fifth of it 
and bring a trespass-offering. (We see then that he is liable to 
a trespass-offering in any case)? This may be explained also as 
Rabina stated above—viz.: At the time he takes the oath the 
wives of the witnesses find themselves in agony, etc. (see above 
p. 67), but in case of simple witnesses no offering is necessary. 
Said Rabina to R. Ashi: Come and hear: a depository oath is 
more rigorous, since for an intentional he is liable to stripes and 
for an unintentional to a trespass-offering in shekkels; now, 
stripes presuppose a warning by witnesses, and nevertheless it 
says that for an unintentional a trespass-offering (which signifies 
by implication that no offering applies to an intentional)? Said 
R. Mordachai: Leave alone this Boraitha, as R. Kahana said. 
This Boraitha / taught and it states that a trespass-offering must 








ta FE * FF 88S 


r — y — my, 
eels deer weer ae ee at mg 
is Ny at Nat eas Bae Nets Saath dooms 


|G Ghee Ses es Oe 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 71 


be brought, immaterial whether for an intentional or uninten- 
tional one. Finally, come and hear the following objection: In 
the discussion (above, p. 69) concerning an inference @ fortzorz it 
is stated that there is a difference regarding a Nazarite defiling 
himself, as he gets stripes, which is not the case with a deposi- 
tory oath; now, a Nazarite does not get stripes unless there 
were witnesses, and as it says that it is not the case with a de- 
pository-oath, it signifies that even if here were witnesses stripes 
do not apply, but an offering does apply, hence Rabba’s state- 
ment is objected. 

R. Johanan, however, said: If one denies money where there 
are witnesses, he is subject to an oath but is free from such if 
there isa document. Said R. Papa: The reason of R. Johanan 
is that witnesses are subject to death (then the denial would be 
considered, which is not the case with a document. Said R. 
Huna b. R. Jehoshua to R. Papa: May it not happen also toa 
document to be lost? Therefore, R. Johanan’s reason is that 
to a document real estate is encumbered, and there is no oath 
concerning the denying of real estate. 

It was taught: If one adjures witnesses in a case of real 
estate, R. Johanan and R. Elazar differ: according to one they 
are liable, according to the other they are not; now, from what 
R. Johanan has said above it is to conclude that he is the one 
who declares them free, and his reason is that advanced by R. 
Huna b. Jehoshua. 

Said R. Jeremiah to R. Abuhu: Shall we assume that R. 
Johanan and R. Elazar differ in what R. Eliezar and the rabbis 
differ (First Gate, Mishna VII. p. 270; see Mishna and Gemara), 
and he who makes him liable agrees with R. Eliezar of that 
Mishna, while he who frees him agrees with the rabbis? And 
he answered: Nay; as he who makes him free may say that in 
such a case even R. Eliezar admits since here concerning a false 
oath it reads [Lev. v. 22]: ‘‘In any one of all,’’ but not all, 
which excludes real estate. Said R. Papain the name of Rabha: 
It seems to be so also from our Mishna, which illustrates it by 
the theft of an ox and not by that of a slave, and this is because 
a slave is considered real estate to which an offering does not 
apply. 

‘“ How does the oath concerning deposits take place,’’ etc. The 
rabbis taught: ‘‘ When the oath was made in general, he is liable 
but for one; but when in particular, he is liable for each sever- 
ally’’; so R. Mair. R. Jehudah, however, said: If he says, I 


72 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


swear I have it not from thee, and not from thee, and not from 
thee, he is liable for each one; R. Eliezar, however, maintains 
that he is liable for each one only then when the words “‘ I 
swear’’ were said last; but R. Simeon said that to be liable 
for each one he must mention ‘‘ I swear’’ with each one sepa- 
rately. Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: The general 
of R. Mair is the particular of R. Jehudah (z.e., ‘‘ and not from 
thee, and not from thee,’’ which is considered by R. Mair asa 
general, R. Jehudah considers a particular), and the general of 
R. Jehudah (z.e., the same statement but without ‘‘and’’) is 
the particular of R. Mair. R. Johanan, however, said: Con- 
cerning ‘‘and not from”’ all agree that it is a particular; where 
they differ is regarding ‘‘ not from thee ’’ (without ‘‘ and ’’), which 
is to R. Mair a particular, and to R. Jehudah a general. What 
then isageneral to R. Mair? ‘* Iswearthat you all have nothing 
with me.’’ But what is the point they differ in? Samuel bases 
his view upon the just-cited Boraitha in which R. Jehudah says 
‘“‘and not from thee’”’ is a particular, and this must be taken as 
an answer to R. Mair, who maintains that such statement is a 
general. On the other hand, R. Johanan bases his view upon 
our Mishna in which R. Mair says that for swearing ‘* you all 
have nothing with’’ he is guilty but for one, whence it follows 
that if he states in his swearing ‘‘ not from thee, not from thee’’ 
he is culpable for each. As to the Boraitha, R. Johanan ex- 
plains it thus: R. Jehudah, answering R. Mair, says: concerning 
the phrase “‘ and not from thee’’ I agree with you that itisa 
particular, but I do not agree with you concerning the phrase 
‘“ not from thee, not from thee’’ (without and); to which Sam- 
uel cannot agree, as, he thinks, if this were the case R. Jehudah 
would state only in what he differs. As to the Mishna, Samuel 
does not agree with R. Johanan, as according to Samuel the 
phrase “‘ avd not from thee’’ is identical with ‘‘ not from you 
all. (Here follow objections to the above, from our Mishna, 
where in all the cases it is stated with a vakve (-and) and the 
answer is: read it without ‘‘and.’’ And to the question: Is 
it possible that all the ‘‘ ands’’ are mistakes, it answers that the 
whole Mishna is in accordance with Rabbi’s view in Tract Zeba- 
chim, where he plainly says that there is no difference whether 
the conjunction ‘‘ and’’ was said or not. 

‘“* R. Mair says: Even,’’ etc. Said R. A’ha b. R. Aika: It 
means that even if he says wheat in the singular, it none the 
less means a measure of the same (as we find in [Exod. ix. 32] 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). + 


the word for wheat in the singular, and it denotes the whole 
kind of wheat). 

‘* Give me the wheat,’’ etc. Said R. Johanan: The value of 
a Peruta from all of them counts to make him liable for each 
severally, and R. A’ha and Rabina differ in their explaining this 
point. According to one he is liable only for three particulars, 
but not for the oath as such, which is a general; while the other 
maintains that he is liable for four: for the three particulars, and 
for the oath as a general. But has not R. Hyya taught that he 
is liable to fifteen sin-offerings (if he swore to five persons), so 
that the Tana of the Boraitha counts only the particulars and 
not the five generals (for, with the generals it would make up 
20:3 X 5 = 15 for the particulars, and five for the oaths in gen- 
eral)? The Tana counts only the particulars, and he does not 
count the generals, though he holds one liable for a general. 
But again, there is another Boraitha by the same R. Hyya in 
which the liability counts twenty? This second Boraitha refers 
to the previous statement in the Mishna, ‘‘ Give me the deposit, 
the loan,’’ etc., which amount to four particulars. 

Rabha questioned R. Na’hman: How is it if five persons 
claim the four articles just mentioned, and he says to one of 
them: I swear that thou hast not with mea deposit, a loan, a 
robbed, a lost article, and not thou, and not thou, and not thou, 
and not thou, he is liable with regard to the last four only to 
one sin-offering (so that all in all he should be liable to eight), 
or because he said to each one, ‘‘ avd not thou,’’ the particulars 
must be counted in each case, and hence he is liable to twenty? 
Come and hear what R. Hyya taught above: Twenty sin-offer- 
ings; now, if R. Hyya had in view that all particulars were men- 
tioned in the oath, would it be necessary for him to specify the 
number of the sin-offerings? Hence, he surely has in view a 
case illustrated by you, and makes one liable for all the par- 
ticulars. 

““ You violated,’’ etc. Said R. Hyya b. Aba in the name of 
R. Johanan: The reason of R. Simeon is that the main claim in 
this case is fine. Said Rabha: We may illustrate R. Simeon’s 
view as follows: If one says, ‘‘ Give me the wheat, barley and 
rye which I have with you,’’ and the answer is, ‘‘ I swear that 
you have no wheat with me,’’ and it was found that he really 
had no wheat, but had barley and rye, he is free, because the 
oath for the wheat was true; said Abayi to him: This illustra- 
tion does not answer the purpose, since when swearing about 


74 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


wheat he did not deny barley and rye. But R. Simeon’s view 
may be illustrated thus: one answers “‘ I swear you have noth- 
ing with me,’’ whereupon it was found that he had no wheat, 
but barley and rye, in which case he is culpable? Therefore, 
when Rabin came he:said in the name of R. Johanan: Their 
point of difference is that according to R. Simeon the plaintiff 
demands only the fine, but not the indemnity for the shame and 
loss of value which is not fine, while according to the sages he 
demands also the latter. And their respective reasons are ex- 
plained by R. Papa thus: According to R. Simeon one would 
not demand an amount that has to be appraised as yet, while 
the fine is an amount established in the Scripture; on the other 
hand, the rabbis maintain that, on the contrary, one would not 
demand a fine, the admission of which by the offender makes 
him free, while the indemnity for shame, etc. he must pay at all 
events. 


CHAPTER VI. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER 
WHICH THE COURT GIVES AN OATH TO ONE OF THE CONTESTANTS. 
——-THE NATURE OF THE CLAIM AND OF ITS PARTIAL ADMISSION, 
—WHICH ADMISSION IS OR IS NOT REGARDED AS CORRESPONDING 
WITH THE CLAIM.—THE CASES WHERE THE CLAIM IS FOR MOVE- 
ABLES AND THE ADMISSION FOR IMMOVABLES, OR vice versa.—WHO 
ARE OR ARE NOT FIT TO ENTER A CLAIM WHICH ENTAILS AN OATH, 
—THE FORM OF THE OATH AND THE INTRODUCTION THERETO 
USED BY THE COURT, AS WELL AS THE KIND OF SACRED OBJECT 
ONE MUST HOLD WHEN TAKING THE OATH.—ARTICLES THE CLAIM 
TO WHICH ENTAILS NO OATH.—THE CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH 
EITHER AN OATH MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LOST PLEDGE OR THE 
VALUE THEREOF MUST BE PAID. 


MISHNA /.: In the case of an oath before court, the claim 
must amount to two silver, and the confession, to one peruta; 
and if the confession is not of the same kind with the claim, he 
is free. Howso? .I have with you two silver. You have by 
me only one peruta; he is free. I have with you two silver and 
one peruta. You have by me but one peruta; he is liable. I 
have with you one mana. You have nothing by me; he is free. 
I have one mana with you. You have by me only fifty dinar; 
he is liable. My father has a mana with you. You have by 
me only fifty dinar; he is free, for he is in this case like to him 
who returnsathing lost. Ihavewith youamana. Yea. Next 
day the plaintiff says: Give it to me. I have given it to you 
already; he is free; but if his answer be: You have nothing by 
me, he is liable. I have with youa mana. Yea. Give it to 
me only in presence of witnesses. Next day he requires the 
money, whereupon the defendant says: I have given it to you 
already; he is liable, as he was to pay it before witnesses. I 
have in your possession a litra of gold. Nay; you have by me 
only a litra of silver; he is free. But if plaintiff says: I have 
with you a gold dinar. Nay; you have by me only a silver 
dinar, a trecissis, a fundion and a perutah, he is liable, since all the 

75 


76 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


mentioned coins are of the same kind. I have in your posses- 
sion a kur of grain. Nay; you have only a lethech of legume; 
he is free. I have with you a kur of fruit. Nay; you have by 
me only a lethech of legume; he is liable, since legume is in the 
category of fruit. If the claim was wheat and the defendant 
admits barley, he is free. Raban Gamaliel, however, finds him 
liable. If one requires from another tankards of oil, and latter 
admits pitchers, he must, according to Admon, take the oath, 
since it is a case of partial admission; but the sages say: The 
confession is not of the same kind with the claim. Said R. 
Gamaliel: Admon’s decision appears to me to be correct. If 
one requires movables and real estate and the other admits 
movables but denies real estate or wice versa, he is free. If he 
admits but a part of the real estate he is likewise free; but if he 
admits but a part of the movables, he is liable, for property that 
is not subject to loss necessitates the taking of the oath with 
reference to property that is subject thereto. There is no oath 
to the claim of a deaf-mute, an imbecile, or a minor; nor isa 
minor to take an oath, but there is an oath to the claim ofa 
minor or of the sanctuary. 

GEMARA: How is an oath given? Said R. Jehudah in the 
name of Rabh: One is made to swear with the oath of the Scrip- 
ture [Gen. xxiv. 3]: ‘‘ And he will make thee swear by the 
Lord, the God of heaven.’’ Said Rabina to R. Ashi: Is this in 
accordance with R. Hanina b. Aidi, who said that the unique 
holy name is required? Answered he: Nay; this may be even 
in accordance with the rabbis, who say that a divine attribute is 
sufficient, and the difference between the two is that he (who 
takes the oath) must keep in his hand a holy object; and this is 
in accordance with Rabha, who said that a judge who gives one 
the oath in the name of the Lord the God of heaven should be 
considered as he who erred in what was written plainly in a 
Mishna, so that the oath must be given again. And R. Papa 
says that a judge who gives one the oath by making him keep 
the Zephilin, is likewise considered erring, as the object kept 
must be the holy scrolls. (Says the Gemara): The Halakha 
prevails with Rabha, as there is no oath made without one’s 
holding some holy object; and not with R. Papa, as after all 
there was a holy object in the hand of the one who took the 
oath. 

One must stand when taking the oath; a scholar, however, 
may do it while sitting. Furthermore, the oath must originally 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 17 


be performed with the holy scrolls; a scholar, however, may 
take the oath even originally with Zephzlin. 

The rabbis taught: Also an oath taken by one before the 
court must be uttered in a language he understands, and the 
court must say to him the following introduction to the oath: 
Be aware that the whole world was trembling when the Holy 
One, blessed be He, spake on the Mount Sinai: ‘‘ Thou shalt 
not bear the name of the Lord thy God falsely ’’; likewise con- 
cerning all transgressions mentioned in the Torah it reads: 
‘* Venakket’’ (literally, he will forgive), "and concerning a false 
oath it reads further, ‘‘ Lo zenakez’’ (literally, he will not for- 
give); again, for all other transgressions only the sinner himself 
is punished, while here (in case of oath) the punishment extends 
also to his family, as it reads [Eccl. v. 5]: “‘ Suffer not thy 
mouth to cause thy flesh to sin,’’ and by the expression “‘ flesh’’ 
one’s family is meant, as [Isa. lviii. 7]: ‘‘ From thy own flesh.”’ 
Furthermore, for all other transgressions the sinner himself is 
alone punished, while here the whole world is punished, as 
[ Hosea, iv. 2, 3]: ‘“ There is false swearing, etc. . . . therefore 
shall the land mourn.’’ (But perhaps it means that only when 
the sinner committed a// the transgressions mentioned here in 
Hosea? This cannot be borne in mind, as it reads in [Jerem. 
xxiii. 10]: ‘‘ For because of false swearing mourneth the land.’’) 
Again, the punishment for all other transgression is, because of 
the merits of the sinner’s forefathers, postponed for some two or 
three generations, but here he is punished immediately, as it 
reads [Zech. v. 4]: “‘I bring it forth, saith the Lord of hosts, 
and it shall enter into the house of the thief, and in to the house 
of him that sweareth falsely by my name: and it shall remain in 
the midst of his house, and shall consume it with its timber and 
its stones’’; ‘‘I bring it forth’’ means immediately; ‘‘ it shall 
enter into the house of the thief’’ means who steal the mind of 
the people, ¢.g., he who has no money with his neighbor, claims 
such and makes latter swear; ‘‘ into the house of him who swear- 
eth falsely ’’ means literally; ‘‘ it shall remain in the midst of 
his house,’’ etc., to learn from this that things indestructible by 
fire or water are destroyed by false swearing. If after having 
listened to all this introduction, he says: ‘‘I will not take the 
oath,’’ the court sends him away immediately (that he might not 
reconsider and take it); but if he says: ‘‘I will nevertheless 
swear,’’ the people present say [Numb. xvi. 26]: ‘‘ Depart, I 
_ pray you, from the tents of these wicked.’’ 


78 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Again, when he is ready to take the oath, the court says 
again to him: Be aware that the oath which you take is not 
according to your own mind, but to the mind of the Omnipotent 
and of the court, as we find by Moses, our master, when he 
made the Israelites swear, he said: You shall be aware that your 
oath is not by your own mind, but by that of the Omnipotent, 
as it reads [Deut. xxix. 13, 14]: ‘‘ And not with. you alone, 
etc. ... But with him that is standing here,’’ etc., and it is 
not meant only those were at the Mount Sinai, but all future 
generations, and all proselytes who will embrace Judaism in the 
future; and not only regarding the commandments given on 
that Mount, but also regarding all commandments that will be 
established in the future and be they lenient, such as the reading 
of the Book of Esther, as it reads there [Est. ix. 27]: ‘‘ The 
Jews confirmed it as a duty,’’ etc., which means they confirmed 
a duty imposed upon them in the past. 

The text above states “‘ also an oath,’’ etc. Why also? It 
is an addition to a Mishna in Tract Benedictions—viz.: the fol- 
lowing are uttered in any language: The portion said to a sus- 
pected woman, the confession on tithe, the reading of Shema, 
the saying of the prayer, of the benediction after meals, the wit- 
ness-oath, and the oath of a depository. So that the ‘‘ also’’ 
from here comes to add yet the oath given by the court. 

The master says: The whole world was trembling, etc. But 
why? Was it because it was ordained on Sinai? Then, all the 
ten commandments were given there; and if because it is more 
rigorous, is it indeed so? Is there not a Mishna: Lenient means 
positive and negative, except ‘“ Thou shalt not bear the holy 
name,’’ etc.; rigorous are those under the category of capital 
punishment and Korath, and the commandment ‘‘ Thou shalt 
not bear,’’ etc. belongs to these (hence, we see that it belongs to 
the same category with these)? The answer is that to all other 
transgressions Venakkez applies, while here Lo zenakkez applies, 
as above. But does it not read together Venakkez lo cenakkei ? 
This is explained by R. Elazar, who said: It is impossible to 
say Venakkei (he will forgive) as it is followed by /o zenakkez (he 
will not forgive), nor is it possible to say ‘‘ he will not forgive ’”’ 
after it reads ‘‘ he will forgive,’’ therefore it must mean, he will 
forgive the repenters, but not those who do not repent. (The 
master says there) further: For all transgressions, etc., while 
here (in the case of oath) the punishment extends also to his 
family. But does it not read [Lev. xx. 5]: ‘‘ Then I will set 


x, 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). “19 


my face against this man and against his family.’’ And there 
is a Boraitha: R. Simeon says, If he has sinned, what has his 
family done; to teach that a family, where there is a contractor 
or a robber, is all considered robbers because it supports him? 
There de is punished with the punishment attached to his trans- 
gression, but the family with a lenient one; while here the family 
suffers the same punishment with the perjuror. As we have 
learned in the following Boraitha: Rabbi said, to what purpose 
is it written in the above-cited verse, “‘ I will cut him off,’’ after 
it reads “‘ I will set my face,’’ etc.? To teach that only sim I 
will cut off but not the whole family. 

Concerning the punishment of the whole world (mentioned 
before), does it not read [ibid. xxvi. 37]: “‘ And they shall stum. 
ble one over the other,’’ which is explained elsewhere to mean 
‘one because of the sin of the other,’’ as all the children of 
Israel are mutually responsible one for the other? The reason 
then is that they could have prevented the sin by protesting, 
but did not do so. But is not one’s family included in the 
‘“ whole world’’? There is a difference in the nature of the 
punishment—viz.: his family is punished more rigorously than 
the rest of the world. | 

The text says: If he says, “‘ I will swear, the people say: 
Depart,’’ etc. Why are both the parties called wicked? Let 
only him who swears have this name. It is in accordance with 
R. Simeon b. Tarfon, who says in the following Boraitha [Exod. 
xxii. 10]: ‘‘ Then shall an oath of the Lord be between them 
both,’’ infer from this that the oath rests upon them both. It 
states there further on: “‘ Not according to your own mind.’’ 
To what purpose is this? Because of a case that happened in 
Rabha’s court (where the defendant put up the money claimed 
from him in a case and, while going to swear, he gave it to the 
plaintiff to hold, and swore then that he has returned the money, 
thus convinced that he had made a true oath). 

‘* IT have with you two stlver,’’ etc. According to Rabh the 
denial must be for two silver; according to Samuel the claim 
must amount to two silver, while the denial or the confession 
may be even for one feruta. Said Rabha: Our Mishna seems 
to be in accordance with Rabh, as it states that the claim must 
amount to two silver and the confession to one peruta, but it 
does not state the denial to be of one peruta,; the Scripture, 
however, seems to be in accordance with Samuel, as it reads 
[ibid. ibid. 6]: ‘‘ If a man do deliver unto his neighbor money 


80 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


or vessels to keep,’’ and as “‘ vessels’’ is used in the plural, so 
is money (silvers) here in the plural; and as silver is a valuable, 
so everything that is a valuable; and [ibid. 8]: ‘‘ Of which he 
can says this it is’’ signifies however little it may be, hence, the 
confession must be to a claim that is no less than two silver. 
There is an objection from the following Mishna: I have 
with you two silver. Nay; you have only one peruta; he is 
free from an oath. Now, is it not because the denial here is 
less than of two silver, and it is an objection to Samuel? Nay; 
it means particularly: He claims two sz/ver, and the answer is 
peruta, which is in copper, consequently the confession was not 
of the same kind with the claim. But if so, how is the second 
part to be understood—viz.: I have with you two silver and a 
peruta. Nay; you have with me only one feruta; he is liable. 
Now, if the claim was for the value of two silver, it is correct 
that he is liable, for the confession concerned the same kind as 
the claim; but if it is a claim particular on silver, then the other 
confessed to what was not claimed, and what this one claimed 
was not confessed? But is not the objection concerning Samuel, 
and R. Na’hman said that Samuel holds one liable for confess- 
ing one of the articles embraced in the claim; and it seems to be 
that the Mishna was particular regarding the kind, and not the 
value, of the metal, as it states in its last part: I have with you 
a litra gold. Nay; you have with me a /tra silver; he is 
free. Now, if it is particular with regard to the kind of metal, 
then it is correct; but if it means the value of the metal, why 
should he be free, when the value of gold is so many times more 
than that of the same quantity of silver? Hence, as this last 
part is indisputably particular with regard to the kind of metal, 
so also is the first part. But if so, let this be an objection to 
Rabh? Rabh may say: All the Mishna treats of the value, but 
in the case of the “tra gold it is different, as here the main point 
is the weight; and a support to this view may be found in its 
concluding part, which states: ‘‘ I have with you a golden dinar.’’ 
Nay; you have with me only a silver dinar, a trissis, a pundium 
and a peruta, he is liable, as they all are coins. Now, if it 
speaks of value, it is right that he is liable, as the claim was for 
coins and the confession, too, was for coins; but if it is particu- 
lar, why should he be liable when he confesses to silver or cop- 
per, the claim being for gold? Said R. Elazar: It treats of a 
claim that is made for coins amounting to the value of a dinar, 
and this is stated to teach that a peruta is also considered a coin. 


i 
a i a i ne 


a) 
ae 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 81 


And so it seems to be, since it adds that ‘* they all are each a 
kind of coin.’’ But Rabh reads the Mishna to mean ‘‘ to them 
all the law of a coin applies.”’ : 

Come and hear: “ I have with you a gold dinarin gold.” Nay; 
you have with me only a silver dinar; he is liable. Now, we 
see that only because the claimant added specifically ‘‘ in gold,”’ 
the kind of the metal is particular; but if this were not added, 
the value of the metal would be understood? Said R. Ashi: 
Nay; the Boraitha intends to teach that if one says “‘ a gold 
dinar,’’ it means a dinar in gold. 

R. Hyya taught a Boraitha in support of Rabh: I have with 
youasela. Nay; a se/a less two silver; he is liable. But if the 
answer is: A sela less a madéh (= 23 silver), he is free (because 
the denial was for more than two silver). 

Said R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak in the name of Samuel: All that 
was said hitherto concerns only the claim of the lender and the 
confession of the borrower, but if there was one witness, the bor- 
rower is liable even if the claim amounted only to one peruta; 
as it reads [Deut. xix. 15]: “‘ There shall not be one witness to 
any sin or transgression,’’ which signifies that to a transgression 
one witness shall not be considered, but concerning an oath one 
witness may be considered; and there is a Boraitha that where- 
ever two witnesses cause the payment of money, one witness 
causes an oath. . 

R. Na’hman said again in the name of the same authority: 
If the claim was for wheat and barley, and the confession was 
to either one, he is liable. Said R. Itz’hak to him: Thanks, so 
also said R. Johanan. Was he thanking because someone dif- 
fered with R. Johanan? Yea; it was Resh Lakish who kept 
silent when R. Johanan said so, only because he was drinking 
at that time. 

An objection was raised; come and hear: If the claim com- 
prised both personal and real estate, and the confession was to 
either, he is free; if, however, the confession was regarding but 
a part of the real estate, he is free; but if to a part of the per- 
sonal estate, he is liable. We see, then, that only in a case of 
real estate to which an oath does not apply, he is free; but if 
the claim were for vessels of two kinds similar to personal and 
real estate respectively, and he would confess to either kind he 
would be liable? Nay; he would be free in this case also; and 
the case of personal and real estate is to teach that, when the 


confession was only to a part of the personal, he has to swear 
6 


82 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


even for the real estate, too. But what is there new in this 
teaching: that one can include in the oath also another claim? 
This has been already stated in Middle Gate? Here is the main 
teaching, while in Middle Gate the point is touched on merely 
by the way. R. Hyya b. Aba, however, said in the name of 
R. Johanan: If the claim was wheat and barley, and the con- 
fession was only to either of them, he is free. But has not R. 
Itz’hak expressed his thanks to one for quoting R. Johanan as 
saying the very opposite? The Amoraim differ regarding R. 
Johanan’s statement. 

R. Aba b. Mamal objected to R. Hyya: If the claim was for 
an ox, and the, confession was for a lamb or wice versa, he is 
free; but if the claim was for an ox and a lamb, and the con- 
fession only for one of them, he is liable? And he answered: 
This Boraitha is in accordance with Admon; and you shall not 
take this answer as mere argument, since it is a fact that R. 
Johanan taught so explicitly. 

R. Anan said in the name of Samuel: If one was about to 
claim wheat and the defendant hastened to confess barley, if it 
seems to the court that he did so with a view to elude the court, 
thereby escaping an oath, he is liable; but if only to justify the 
claim, he is free. He said further in the name of the same 
authority: If the claim was for two needles, and the confession 
was to one, he is liable; as for this purpose the Scripture men- 
tions vessels, that they remain what they are. R. Papa said: 
If the claim was for vessels and a peruta and the confession was 
for the vessels and the denial for the peruta, he is free; but if 
vice versa he is liable. The one case is in accordance with Rabh, 
who holds that the denial must be of a claim of two silver, while 
the other case is in accordance with Samuel, who holds that of 
the claim comprised two articles and the confession was to but 
one, he is liable. 

‘“T have a mana with you,’’ etc. Said R. Na’hman: He is 
free from a biblical oath, but he is subject to a rabbinical one. 
(Here follows a repetition from Middle Gate and also from First 
Gate concerning the law that he who denies a loan is fit to bea 


witness, while he who denies a deposit is unfit.) According to 


others the saying of R. Na’hman concerned the latter part of 
the Mishna—viz.: I have a mana with you. Yea. And the 


next day when he refuses it, he says: “‘ I have already given it to 


you’’; he is free, to which R. Na’hman said: He must, however, 
take a rabbinical oath. To him who teaches this regarding the 


Ce ay 





a el 


aS Ee a ah ae LOR 


oe 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). $3 


first part of the Mishna, is obvious that it belongs also to its 
latter part; but he who limits this to the latter part reasons 
thus: In this latter part money was avowedly involved, but in 
the first it is doubtful. 

What is the difference between a biblical and a rabbinical 
oath? The reversibility of the oath: a biblical oath we do not 
transfer from one contestant to the other, while a rabbinical we 
do. And according to Mar b. R. Ashi, who says that a biblical 
oath is also reversible, what is the difference between the two 
oaths? Thecollecting from the property: where there is a bibli- 
cal oath, the collection may be made from his property, which 
is not the case with a rabbinical oath if he refuses to take such. 
And according to R. Jose who says that a rabbinical oath is also 
attended with collection, what is the difference between the 
two? In the case where one of the parties was suspected of an 
oath: if this was a biblical oath it is transferable to the other 
party, but if it is a rabbinical oath, which is only an enactment 
by the sages, it is not transferable, for the transferring is itself 
but an enactment and we do not impose one enactment upon 
another. 

Now, what is to be done according to the rabbis, the oppo- 
nents of R. Jose, who hold that in case of a rabbinical oath no 
collecting from the property takes place? We place him under 
ban. Said Rabina to R. Ashi: This is like holding one up for 
his throat till he takes off his clothes (z.¢., it is still worse than 
collecting from his estate, as he remains under ban until he 
pays)! But what shall be done? Place him under ban for one 
month, and if he does not come then for absolving he is, as it is 
customary, punished according to Rabh’s practice, after which 
punishment he is left alone. 

R. Papa said: If one holds a document in his hand and the 
defendant says: the document is already paid up, he is not 
trusted and must pay. But if he requires that the plaintiff take 
an oath that it has not been paid, the court is to give him an 
oath. Said R. A’ha b. Rabha to R. Ashi: Why should this 
case be different from a marriage contract where she has to take 
an oath only when she impairs the contract (z.e., she claims that 
only one mana has been paid on it)? And he answered: In that 
case where the document is impaired, and the defendant does 
not require an oath, the court requires such; in this case, how- 
ever, the court would tell him to pay and not exact an oath, but 
execute the requirement of the defendant that the plaintiff take 


84 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


an oath; and if the plaintiff was a scholar no oath is to be given. 
Said R. Yemer to R. Ashi: Is a young scholar given the liberty 
to strip men of their clothes? Say only that if he was a scholar, 
we do not compel him to swear, so that it should not seem that 
the court suspects him, and on the other hand if he refuses to 
swear we do not collect his claim from the defendant. 

Again: ‘‘ [ have a mana with you.’’ Said R. Jehudah in the 
name of R. Assi: If one has made a loan in the presence of wit- 
nesses, he must also return it in presence of witnesses. And 
when, he continued, I recited this before Samuel, he told me 
that the defendant can claim, ‘‘ I have paid you in the presence 
of such and such witnesses, who are now away in the sea-coun- 
tries.’” An objection was raised from our Mishna: ‘‘I have 
with you a mana. Yea. ... I have returned it to you,’’ he 
is free; now, if he required the money in presence of witnesses, 
it is a case similar to making a loan in the presence of witnesses, 
and nevertheless he is free, which contradicts R. Assi’s state- 
ment? R. Assi may say: This is no comparison, as I speak of 
a case where the plaintiff has never reposed on confidence in the 
defendant, as he did not trust him without witnesses; but here 
he trusted him money without witnesses. ~ | 

R. Joseph taught the same in the name of the above, as fol- 
lows: If one makes a loan in presence of witnesses, the borrower 
is not obliged to return it in presence of witnesses, unless he 
was told not to repay otherwise than in presence of witnesses; 
and it is to this that Samuel told me: the defendant may none 
the less claim to have paid the debt in presence of such and such 
who are now in the sea-countries. 

An objection was raised from the following: I have a mana 
with you. Yea. You shall not return it to me without the 
presence of witnesses. The next day, on being asked to return 
the money, he answered: I have returned it, the defendant is 
liable, for he had to return it as he was told, z.e., in the presence 
of witnesses; and this contradicts Samuel’s statement? Samuel 
may say that concerning this law Tanaim differ in the following 
Boraitha: I have given to you my money in presence of witnesses, 
and you must return it under the same conditions; then the 
defendant must either pay or adduce evidence that he has paid 

already; R. Jehudah b. Bathina, however, says: He may claim 
to have returned the money in presence of witnesses that are 
now in the sea-countries. R. A’ha (one of the Saburaérs) over- 
threw all this argument by saying: Whence do we know that 


Sy 


eos Se ae ee ee 
Fe ac eS ee nea 
SIG rk ete ee nn gt a et 

+ itty tee) cet? Be i 


oe re 
Vike Woes oe 


7 











St OO ae Sate 
tome ea a See: 


Rae 
= 





we 
See ear 


—_— 
Sues 


a 
~~ 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 85 


the above Tanaim differ in case he lent him before witnesses, 
perhaps it means in case of demanding when he says to him: 
Have I not lent you in presence of witnesses, so that you ought 
to pay me also in the presence of witnesses; but in case he told 
him when making the loan that he should return it in presence 
of witnesses, all agree that he is liable? Said R. Papi in the 
name of Rabha: The Halakha prevails that he who borrows in 
the presence of witnesses must pay also in the same manner. 
R. Papa, however, said in the name of the same authority that 
he is not obliged to do so, unless he was expressly told not to 
pay otherwise but in the presence of witnesses; and if the de- 
fendant claims to have paid it in the presence of such and such 
who are now in the sea-countries, he is trusted (Maimanides,. 
however, reads: He is not trusted). 

There was one who told his neighbor: When you will pay 
me my debt, you shall do so in the presence of Rubin and 
Simon; he, however, has paid it in presence of two other wit- 
nesses (and thereafter the plaintiff says that they are false wit- 
nesses). Said Abayi: What is the difference, he was told to pay 
before two witnesses, and so he did? Said Rabha to him: The 
plaintiff has purposely specified two witnesses by name that the 
defendant may not be able to say that he paid in presence of 
some other witnesses! 

There was one who said to the borrower: You shall pay me 
only before two persons who are able to learn Halakhas; he, 
however, paid him without any witnesses present. It then hap- 
pened that this money was violently taken away from the plain- 
tiff, and he came to R. Na’hman saying: It is true, I have 
received the money not as a return of the loan, but as a deposit, 
until there will happen two witnesses who learn Halakhas and 
then he will repay me. Said R. Na’hman to him: As soon as 
you admit to have taken the money it is a repayment, and if 
you want the defendant to comply with the stipulation regard- 
ing the witnesses, go and bring the money here in the presence 
of myself and R. Sheshith, who are learned not only in Halakhas 
but also in Szphkra, Siphri, Tosephtha and in all the Gemara. 

In another case one demanded a 100 zuz which he lent to 
him, to which the defendant answered that such a case has never 
taken place; the other party, however, brought witnesses that 
the loan took place, but that it was returned; said Abayi: What 
is to be done, as the same witnesses who testify that the loan 
took place, testify also that it has been returned? Said Rabha 


86 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


to him (follow this rule): If one asserts not to have borrowed, it 
means he asserts not to have paid (hence, as the statement ‘‘ that 
it has never taken place’’ is false, according to the evidence of 
these witnesses, we must take his word as though meaning: “‘ I 
have never paid,’’ which must be taken for granted in spite of all 
witnesses). 

In still another case the plaintiff claimed 100 zuz, and the 
defendant answered: Have I not paid you in the presence of so 
and so? And so an so upon being quoted said: They know of 
no such case; and R. Sheshith was about to say that this de- 
fendant must be declared a liar; said Rabha to him: He was 
not obliged to repay in the presence of witnesses, and therefore 
he was not heedful enough to knowthe names of them in whose 
presence he repaid. 

In another case the plaintiff was claiming 600 zuz, and the 
defendant answered: Have I not repaid this claim with 100 kabs 
of gall-nut, the value of each kab being six zuz? To which the 
plaintiff said: Nay; each was worth only four zuz, and brought 
witnesses to this effect, demanding the remaining 200 zuz. The 
defendant, however, said: I have paid you all the same, if not 
with this said stuff, then I gave you 200 zuz incash. Rabha 
decided that the defendant in this case be recognized as a liar. 
Said Rami b. Hama to him: Have you not said that a thing to 
which one pays little attention, may easily escape one’s memory 
(why not say that he paid him the 600 zuz but did not remem- 
ber the price)? Whereupon Rabha answered: A fixed price can 
never be forgotten. 

In another case one demanded 100 zuz on a document, where- 
to the defendant answered: ‘‘ Have I not paid you’’? Where- 
upon the plaintiff claimed that this payment was made to meet 
another claim. According to R. Na’hman the document lost 


its value, according to R. Papa, it did not. But why should R. 


Papa’s decision here differ from what he decided in the follow- 
ing similar case, where the defendant’s answer was: Have you 
not given me that money to buy oxen for slaughtering, and I 
returned you that money in the slaughter-house? And where 
the plaintiff asserts that this was for another debt; in which case 
R. Papa declared the document invalid? In this case R. Papa thus 
decided, because the money was actually taken to buy oxen and 
then received in that very place where they were slaughtered; 
in our case, however, the plaintiff may be right in his claim. 
But how should such a case be ultimately decided? According 











TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). eee | 


to R. Papi the document is valid, and according to R. Sheshith 
b. R. Aidi it is invalid, and so the Halakha prevails, provided 
the defendant paid in presence of witnesses and the document 
was not mentioned at all; but if the payment was made between 
themselves, the plaintiff may be trusted when he says that it 
was to cover another debt, because were he willing to tell a lie 
- he would simply deny the payment. 

A borrower said to the lender: ‘‘ You are trusted so long as 
you will say that I have not paid you’’; thereafter he paid him in 
the presence of witnesses, but the plaintiff continued his claim, 
saying that this payment was for another debt. Both Abayi 
and Rabha said that the defendant himself has trusted him, 
hence, he is to be trusted; R. Papa, however, opposed, saying: 
The defendant trusted in this case more to the plaintiff than to 
one’s self, but did he trust him more than two witnesses? 

In another case the defendant said to the plaintiff: ‘‘ You are 
trusted like two so long you say that I have not paid you;”’ 
thereafter he paid in the presence of three, and the plaintiff still 
claimed his debt; in which case R. Papa said: He was trusted 
as two, whereas here there are three witnesses. R. Hunab. R. 
Jehoshua, however, opposed, saying that concerning witnesses 
their number whether two or 100 matters not (according to the 
biblical law); however, if he said to him: ‘‘ You are trusted like 
three,’’ and then paid him in the presence of four, it is different, 
as the number three was intended here not for witnesses but for 
the minds, and in this respect four minds are more than three. 

‘* There 1s no oath to the claim of a deaf-mute,’’ etc. For 
[Exod. xxii. 6]: ‘‘ Unto his neighbors,’’ etc.; and the delivery 
by a minor is not considered. 

‘* But there ts an oath to the claim of a minor.’’ But has it 
not just been said that there is no oath to such? Said Rabh: 
It means the minor claims that his father has given this or 
that to the defendant, and it is in accordance with R. Eliezar b. 
Jacob, who said in the following Boraitha: There is a case where 
one has to swear for his own claim—viz.: ‘‘ Your father had with 
me a mana, but I paid him a half,’’ then he has to swear for his 
own claim; the sages, however, say that here he is but returning 
a lost thing, hence, he is free. And to the question, Does not 
R. Eilezar agree that the defendant here is returning a lost 
thing, Rabh said: It treats here of a claim made bya minor 
after the death of his father. But again, the Mishna states ex- 
pressly that there is no oath to the claim of minors? Rabh 


88 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


meant to say: He was as a minor in his father’s business, but 
already of age when putting in the claim. -But then how is the 
expression above “‘ for his own claim ’’ to be understood, as here 
it is not his claim but that of the plaintiff? It must, therefore, 
be said that they differ concerning what was said by Rabha 
(Middle Gate, p. 4) with regard to a biblical oath that “‘ one is 
not so bold as to deny the whole,’’ etc.: R. Eliezar holds that 
one is not bold concerning the son (of the deceased) also, and 
therefore he is not regarded as returning a loss, while the rabbis 
hold that one is not bold only in face of the party himself, but 
is so with relation to the son of same, and therefore he is con- 
sidered as returning a loss, — 

But how can you explain the Mishna in accordance with R. 
Eliezar b. Jacob, does not the Mishna state in its first part: If 
one claims, my father had with you a mana, and the answer is, 
I have no more than 50 dinar, he is free because he only returns 
aloss? There it speaks of a case when the heir did not claim: 
‘Tam certain,’’ while in the case of our Mishna the minor is 
supposed to claim that he is certain. Samuel, however, says: 
Our Mishna’s case is when the minor has real estate and one 
puts in a claim that his father owes him money, in this case 
even if the plaintiff has a document, he must swear that the 
minor’s father has not paid it; the same is the case with the 
sanctuary.* 

MISHNA /J//.: One does not swear to the following: To 
slaves, written documents, arable lands, and sanctified objects; 
nor is thereto applied the payment of double amount, or of four 
and five-fold. The gratuitous bailee need not swear, the bailee 
on payment need not pay damages. R. Simeon holds that one 
is obliged to swear to objects of the sanctuary, for whose security 
he is liable, but not to those for which he is not responsible. R. 
Mair says: There are things attached to the land and yet not 
considered land; but the sages do not agree with him therein. 
How so? I have transferred to you ten vines laden with grapes. 
Nay; there were only five; and he must swear according to R. 
Mair, while the sages hold that everything attached to the soil 
is to be regarded as the land itself. 

One swears but to things capable of being measured, weighed, 
and counted. Howso? I have transferred to you a house full 
of fruit, or, I have handed you a purse full of money. I know 





* The further discussion on this point appears in its proper places. 


Brice 








Se ae are Sn ON a OR ee Ee SA POT OTe TL PR pea ETE a 
: : Ba ee a eg a ne a nt ee ee a 5 ES 2 ee a a ear 5 Sail > $e — 


= 
noe 





« ts 


Se oe 


~~; 
oc 


a 


—— 
ae 


= 


hey) 





TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 89 


not how much there was, but you are at liberty to take back 
whatever you left there; he is free; but if plaintiff says: They 
were reaching the cornice, and the defendant rejoins: Only up 
to the window, latter is liable. 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? From [Exod. xxii. 
8]: ‘‘ For all manner of trespass’’: general, ‘‘ ox, ass, lamb, 

raiment’’; particulars, “‘ for any manner of lost thing’’; again 
' general, and there is a rule that wherever particulars appear be- 
tween generals, it must be judged in thesense of the particulars: 
and’ as these are movables each having in body a value, so also 
all other cases must be equal to these; except real estate, which 
is not movable, slave, who are equalled to real estate, documents 
which though movable are in body of no value, and finally the 
sanctuary which is excluded because of the verse ‘‘ his neighbor.’’ 

‘* Double-amount, four and five-fold,’’ etc. The reason here 
is that the Scripture speaks of four and five-fold, and as in the 
case of double-amount an oath does not apply; it remains only 
the case of three and four-fold which is not mentioned in the 
Scripture. 

‘A gratuitous bailee need not swear.’’ Whence is this de- 
duced? From what the rabbis taught [Exod. xxii. 9]: “Ifa 
man deliver unto his neighbor’’: general, ‘‘ an ass,’’ etc.; par- 
ticular, ‘‘to keep’’; general, and on the basis of the above- 
mentioned rule the particulars appearing between generals ren- 
der the whole to be judged in their sense: as the particulars here 
are movables each having in body a value, etc. (as above). 

“A bailee on pay.’’ Also this is deduced from the just-cited 
verse and on the basis of the same rule regarding particulars 
appearing between generals. 

““R. Matr says: There are things attached,’’ etc. From this 
we see that R. Mair does not hold that what is attached to the 
land is itself considered land. Now, why is here the point of 
difference illustrated by /aden vines, and not by vines as such? 
Said R. Jose b. Hanina: The Mishna speaks of grapes that were 
ready for the press. R. Mair holds: As they are ready for 
pressing they are no longer considered attached to the soil, but 
as already pressed in which case an oath applies, while the sages 
do not share this opinion. 

““ One swears but to things capable of being measured,’’ etc. 
Said Abayi: Provided he says ‘‘a house full,’’ etc., but if he 
says, ‘‘ this house was full,’’ then his claim is definite and recog- 
nized. Said Rabha to him: If this were so, why the illustration 


90 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


in the last part of the Mishna with “‘ cornice’’ and “‘ window ”’ 
stated by plaintiff and defendant respectively, and not with 
‘“a house’’ and ‘‘ ¢#zs house’’? Therefore, says Rabha, there 
is no liability of an oath unless the claim concerned a certain 
measure or weight, and the confession was made also to measure 
or weight. There is a Boraitha in accordance with Rabha: ‘‘ I 
have a kur of grain with you.’’ -Nay; you have nothing with 
me; heisfree. ‘‘ I have with you a big chandelier.’’ Nay; you 
have only asmall one; heisfree. However, if he says: “‘ I have 
with youakur of grain,’’ and the answeris: Only alethech; “‘ or 
a chandelier of ten pounds,’’ and the answer is: One of only five 
pounds, he is liable. Because the rule underlying this judging 
is: One is not liable unless the claim was for a certain measure; 
weight or number, and the confession was to the same effect" 
Now, what is the addition of the rule for in the Boraitha? To 
indicate that ‘‘ this house /#//’’ means also a measure. But 
why is it not a partial confession if he confesses to a small chan- 
delier when the claim is for a big one? Because to the claim as 
it is, there is here no confession, nor is the claim made for what 
is confessed (as the big and small chandelier are two different 
things); but is not the same the case when the claim is for one 
of ten pounds, and the confession for one of five pounds? Said 
R. Samuel b. R. Itz’hak: It speaks of a chandelier made of 
separable pieces, and the confession was to five pounds of the 
same chandelier; why, then, is not the same the case with the 
girdle that may have been of separable pieces? And as this is 
not so, we must say that it does not speak of pieces in the other 
case of the chandelier either! Therefore, said R. Aba b. Mamal, 
it speaks of a whole chandelier, but when the claim is for a big 
and the confession for a small one, then are two wholly different 
things involved; but if it speaks of the weight, one could by 
rubbing reduce the weight of such from ten to five pounds, the 
only object thus remaining the same. 

MISHNA /J//.: If one lends to his neighbor on a pledge, 
and the pledge got lost, whereupon the plaintiff says: I lent 
you on it a sela, but it was worth only a shekkel; the other 
party says: No, truly, you lent me a sela on it, but it was worth 
asela, he is free. But if the plaintiff claims: I lent you on it 


a sela, but it was worth only a shekkel; whereto the other re-. 


plies: Nay; you did lend me on it a sela, and it was worth three 
dinar, he is liable. If the debtor says: You lent me on it a sela, 
while it was worth two selas, whereto the creditor: Nay; I gave 


ee 


ee ee er ee ee 


pe cee ed 


eta en 


= ens 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). gt 


you on it one sela, its value only, he is free. But if the former 
says: You lent mea sela on it, it was, however, worth two, and 
latter says: Nay; I lent you thereon a sela, and it was worth 
only five dinar, he is liable. Who is to-take the oath? The 
depository, as he could meanwhile produce the pledge if the 
other one were to swear. 

GEMARA: The concluding sentence of the Mishna belongs 
to which part? If to the last, there is a rule that the oath rests 
with the lender? Said Samuel and also R. Hyya b. Rabh and 
also R. Johanan, it belongs to the middle part: I lent you asela 
and it was worth a shekkel, and the other says it was worth 
three dinars, in which case the borrower confesses to owe yet 
one dinar, hence, it is a partial admission to which an oath ap- 
plies; the rabbis, however, have transferred this oath from the 
borrower to the lender.* And now that R. Ashi has decided 
that both depositor and depositary must each take an oath, he 
latter: that he does not have the pledge any more, and the 
former: that its value amounted to so and so much, the Mishna 
is to be explained thus: Who is to take the oath first? The 
depositary, since if the depositor swore first the other could 
meanwhile reconsider and produce the pledge. 

Samuel said: +t If one lends to his neighbor 1,000 zuz, and 
pledges for them the handle of a scythe only, if the handle is 
lost the 1,000 zuz are lost, but if the pledge consisted of such 
two handles the case is different, as we do not assume that he 
gave 500 zuz for each handle, but for the whole, and as only one 
of them was lost the lender loses nothing; R. Na’hman, how- 
ever, maintains that the same is the case with two, 2.¢., if one is 
lost the lender loses 500 zuz, and if both are lost he loses the 
whole 1,000; but the same is not the case if the pledge consisted 
of a scythe handle and a piece of metal. The opinion of the 
sages from Nahardea is that the same is the case with the last 
mentioned pledge: If either the metal or the handle is lost, 500 
zuz are lost, and the loss of both entails the loss of all the 1,000. 

An objection was raised from our Mishna—viz.: From the 
case where defendant says it was worth but three dinar. Why 
is he liable in this case? Let the depositor say: You have taken 
it fora sela? The Mishna has in view the case where the de- 





* A Talmudic se/a was of two shekkels, each shekkel of two dinars; hence 3 
dinar = 14 shekkel. : 

+ This is a repetition from Tract Middle Gate, p. 206, which is reproduced here 
because R. Na’hman’s part is not mentioned there. 


92 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


positary expressly took upon him responsibility for its value 
only, which is not so in Samuel’s case.* 

Concerning the last mentioned case shall we assume that the 
following Tanaim differ: If one had made a loan on a pledge 
and the Sabbathic year entered, the pledge, though worth only — 
the half value of the loan, the year does not release the loan 
[Deut. xv. 2]; R. Jehudah the Nassi, however, maintains that 
if the pledge amounted to the value of the whole debt, the year 
does not release, but if not to this value, the year does release. 
Now, let us see what does the first Tana mean by his saying “ it 
does not release,’’? If he means, it does not release the half 
debt and R. Jehudah comes to teach that it releases even this 
half, then of what use is a pledge? We must then say that the 
first Tana means it releases the entire debt, as he agrees with 
Samuel’s theory that as soon as it was accepted for this amount 
it must be considered only as such, while R. Jehudah differs! 
Nay; they differ with regard to the worth of the pledge and still 
R. Jehudah maintains that the entire debt is released, for the 
pledge which is not worth the amount of the debt he considers 
as mere memorandum. 





° 


* Here follows the discussion from Middle Gate, p. 206: 

‘* On a pledge,” which paragraph is followed by the statement of R. Itz’hak that 
a creditor acquires title ina pledge (ibid., p. 207). Also the discussion concerning the 
question as to whether he who takes care of a found object is considered a gratuitous 
bailee, or a bailee for hire (ibid., p. 65), all which we deem unnecessary to repeat here 








CHAPTER VII. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE CONDITIONS UNDER 
WHICH THE OATH IS GIVEN TO THE PLAINTIFF OR TO THE 
DEFENDANT.—REGARDING A SUSPECT OF PERJURY.—THE DIF- 
FERENCE BETWEEN A BIBLICAL AND A RABBINICAL OATH.—IS OR 
IS NOT A RABBINICAL OATH TRANSFERABLE ?—THE OATH OF 
ORPHANS (PLAINTIFF OR DEFENDANT), PARTNERS, GARDENERS.— 
THE CASES WHEN THE SABBATHIC YEAR RELEASES ONE FROM AN 
OATH. J 


MISHNA JZ.: All those who are subject to a biblical oath 
swear and do not pay. The following, however, swear in order 
to receive pay: The employee, the robbed, the bruised, he 
whose adversary is suspicious of perjury, and the store-keeper on 
his business book. The employee, howso? Give me my wages 
which I have with you, and the employer answers: I have given 
them to you already, and the former claims: I have received 
nothing; he swears and gets his claim. R. Jehudah, however, 
says: Unless there be a partial confession (the oath is not effec- 
tive)—viz.: the employed says: Give me my fifty dinar wages 
you have in your hands, and the employer replies: You received 
on this account one gold dinar. 

How is it with the robbed? If witnesses testify that one 
entered his house to seize a pledge without permission, now the 
householder says: You have seized one of my utensils, and he 
denies, plaintiff swears and takes it. R. Jehudah, however, 
says: Unless a partial confession takes place there—viz.: You 
took two utensils, and he answers: I took but one. 

How is it with the bruised? If witnesses testify that one 
entered the premises of so and so unhurt and went out in 
wounds, now the plaintiff says to the defendant: You bruised 
my body, and he says: I did not, former swears and receives 
pay. R. Jehudah says: Unless a partial confession took place 
—viz.: plaintiff says: You wrought upon me two bruises, and 
the defendant says: Only one. 

How is the adversary suspicious of perjury? As follows: Be 

93 


94 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


it that he became suspicious while under oath as a witness, or 
under oath for a deposit, or even for merely vain swearing. If 
one of them is a gambler in dice, a usurer, a dove hunter, or one 
who is doing business with the fruit of the Sabbathical year, his 
adversary swears and obtains his claim. In case, however, both 
were suspicious, the oath returns to its place; such is R. Jose’s 
opinion; R. Mair holds that they divide. 

The store-keeper on his book, how so? Not that he say to 
somebody: It is stated in my book that you owe me 200 zuz, 
but that when one says to the store-keeper: Give my son two 
saah of wheat, or:,Give my laborer a sela in money, whereupon 
the store-keeper claims: So I did give, and the others say: We 
have received nothing, the two swear; he swears and gets paid, 
and they likewise swear and get paid by the employer. Said b. 
Nanan: How is that? Either party will necessarily be com- 
mitted to false swearing! But both parties receive their respec- 
tive claims rather without swearing. If one said to the store- 
keeper: Give me fruit for one dinar, and he, having given him, 
says: Give me the dinar, whereupon this replies: I have given 
it to you already and you put it into the cash-drawer, the pur- 
chaser is to swear. If, however, the customer gave the dinar 
and said: Give me the fruit, and the store-keeper says: I have 
given them to you already and you brought them over to your 
house, the store-keeper is to swear. R. Jehudah says: He who 
has the fruit in his possession has the preference. 

If one says to the money-changer: Give me change for a 
dinar, and he was given it, whereupon the changer says to him: 
Give the dinar, and he answers: I have given it to you already — 
and you have put it into the cash-drawer, the customer has to 
swear. But if he gave him the dinar and says: Give me the 
change, and the other one replies: I have given it to you already 
and you have put it into your purse, the money-changer has to 
swear. R. Jehudah says: It is not customary with a money- 
changer to give out an issar before he has received his dinar. 

As it has been established that a woman who damaged her 
marriage contract can obtain payment only on oath; that, when 
a single witness testifies that she was paid, she can receive pay- 
ment only on oath; that she can get paid from encumbered 
estates or from the estates of the orphans only on oath; and 
that when she is to be paid in her husband’s absence, she is so 
only on oath: so likewise should orphans be paid only on oath 
—viz.: We swear that our father had not willed to us nor told 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 95 


us, and that we have not found among the documents of our 
father that this note has been paid. R. Johanan b. Buoka says: 
Even if the son was born after his father’s death, he may swear 
and collect. R. Simeon b. Gamaliel says: If there are witnesses 
to the effect that the father said while dying: This note has not 
been paid, the heir collects without an oath. The following 
have to swear also in the case when there is no claim: Partners, 
gardeners, guardians, a woman business-manager, and the son 
of the house. When one of these parties says: What is your 
claim against me? and the other one answers: My only desire is 
that you swear, he must swear. If the partners or gardeners 
have already divided, they are no longer liable to take an oath. 
However, if an oath is imposed upon one of them from some 
other source, all other claims may be included. The Sabbathic 
year releases from an oath. 

GEMARA: ‘‘ Swear and do not pay.’’ Whence is this de- 
duced? From [Exod. xxii. 10]: ‘‘ An oath of the Lord, .. , 
the owner of it shall accept this,’’ etc.; which signifies that the 
oath rests upon him who has to pay. 

“* The following, however, swear in order to receive pay.’’ Why 
have the rabbis enacted the law that the laborer must swear? 
(For the answer see Middle Gate, p. 300 f.; par. But zt zs cor- 
rect.) Said R. Na’hman in the name of Samuel: This law holds 
good, provided he was hired in presence of witnesses, but if 
without witnesses, the employer is to be trusted, since if he 
would he could say that he has never hired him. Said R. 
Itz’hak to him: Thanks, so also said R. Johanan. (Says the 
Gemara): From this it appears that Resh Lakish differed with 
the latter; and why is it not mentioned? Some say: Resh 
Lakish was drinking at that time, according to others R. Itz’hak 
was then absent from college. The same was taught also by R. 
Menashia b. Zebid in the name of Rabh. Said Rami b. Hama: 
How fair is this Halakha! Said Rabha to him: I do not see its © 
fairness, since according to its theory the four kinds of bailees 
to whom a biblical oath applies find no practical illustration, 
for as any of them may say that such a thing (as claimed by the 
plaintiff) has never occurred, he may be trusted also in case 
when asserting that the thing has been robbed; and should you 
say that the object was deposited with such a bailee in the pres- 
ence of witnesses, he could still say that he has returned it, and 
as he would be trusted when claiming that he has returned it, 
he may likewise be trusted when he says that it has been robbed; 


96 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


hence there can be here no case unless the plaintiff took a docu- 
ment on his deposit, as only in this case the bailee cannot assert 
that he has returned the object, for if he had done so he would 
have taken back the document. [(Says the Gemara): From 
Rabha’s objection we see that both Rabha and Rami b. Hama 
hold that if one deposits an article in the presence of witnesses, 
the depositary is not bound to return it in presence of witnesses, 
while if deposited on a document the depositary must possess 
evidence that he has returned the deposit. ] 

Concerning this Rami b. Hama applied to R. Sheshith 
[I Sam. xxi. 13]: ‘‘ And David took these words to his heart ’’; 
as R. Sheshith, when meeting Rabba b. Samuel, questioned 
him: Has the master learned something concerning an em- 
ployee? And he answered: Yea; an employee, at the time of 
getting his pay, is to take an' oath and then receive his pay. 
How so? If the employee claims: You hired me and did not 
pay; while the employer says: I hired you and paid you. How- 
ever, if the former’s claim is: You hired me for two zuz and 
gave me only one; while the employer says that he hired him 
only for one, then it is incumbent upon the plaintiff to bring 
evidence. Now, as in the last case the plaintiff is to bring evi- 
dence, it is to be assumed that in the first case there was no evi- © 
dence required (hence, the above theory of Rabh and Samuel is 
overthrown). Said R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak (this is no objection 
at all): It may be that even in the first case there was some evi- 
dence, and the evidence in the last case is only required with 
regard to the collection of the payment from the employer, but 
concerning the oath the Boraitha did not care to teach. . 

R. Jeremiah b. Aba said: The college sent a message to 
Samuel, thus: Let the master teach us as to who is to swear in 
a case where the specialist says, ‘‘You have hired me for two 
zuz to repair something,’’ while the employer says that he hired 
him only for one zuz; and Samuel answered: In such a case the 
employer is to swear and the employee loses the case, for as re- 
gards price once fixed people remember it well. But has not 
Rabba b. Samuel said above that in such a case the burden of 
proof lies upon the plaintiff, and as here he possesses no evi- 
dence he should lose the case even without any oath on the part 
of the employer? Said R. Na’hman: The above Boraitha is to 
be interpreted as teaching alternatively, z.e., either the employee 
is to bring evidence and receive his pay, or the employer is to 
swear and former loses. 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 97 


An objection was raised from the following Boraitha: If one 
has given his garment to a specalist for repair and thereafter 
they contradict each other concerning the price for labor and 
services, the law is thus: so long as the article is with the 
specialist the burden of proof lies on owner; and if it was deliv- 
ered, the time of payment not yet elapsed, the specialist is to 
swear and then collect, but if that time has already elapsed, it 
remains for him as plaintiff to bring evidence. Thus we see 
that if within the time, the specialist is to swear and collect. 
Why let the owner swear and the specialist lose? Said R. 
Na’hman b. Itz’hak: This Boraitha is in accordance with R. 
Jehudah, who holds that so long as the oath seems to rest upon 
the owner (and there is a partial admission on his part) the 
rabbis’ enactment is that the employer shall swear and thereupon 
collect. But let us see which R. Jehudah is meant here? It 
can not be the R. Jehudah of our Mishna, as he plainly requires 
a partial admission; it must, then, be the R. Jehudah of the fol- 
lowing Boraitha: So long as the time of payment has not 
elapsed, it is the employee that swears and collects, but after 
the expiration of said time it is for the employer toswear. Said 
R. Jehudah: Provided the employee claims fifty dinar for his 
work, and the employer claims to have already paid one gold 
dinar (= 20 silver dinar), or they contradict each other regard- 
ing the price; but if the employer claims that he has never hired 
him, or that he has paid his wages to the last pesuta, the burden 
of proof rests upon the plaintiff. 

R. Sheshith b. R. Aidi, however, opposed thus: Would you 
say that a contradiction regarding the price is in accordance with 
R. Jehudah and not with the rabbis; bear in mind that where 
R. Jehudah is in our Mishna more rigorous (as he demands a 
partial admission) the rabbis are lenient; should the rabbis be 
more rigorous in the Boraitha where R. Jehudah is more lenient? 
But is it possible to explain the Boraitha in accordance with the 
rabbis, has not Rabba b. Samuel taught, in case of contradiction 
regarding the price, that the plaintiff is to bring evidence, which 
teaching could be neither in accordance with the rabbis nor 
with R. Jehudah? Therefore said Rabha: Their point of differ- 
ence is as follows: R. Jehudah holds that, concerning a biblical 
oath which applies to the employer, the rabbis have enacted for 
the sake of the employee to reverse the oath to the latter, so 
that he may, upon swearing, collect; but where there is a rab- 
binical oath (as where there is no partial admission) which is 

7 


98 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


itself merely an enactment, they do not impose another enact- 
ment upon it; the rabbis, however, are of the opinion that the 
said enactment (that the employee swear) applies also to the 
case of a rabbinical oath, and as to the contradiction about the 
price, it may be said that, as a price usually remains in memory, 
the rabbis leave in this case the oath to the employer. 

‘“‘ Entered his house to seize,’ etc. But perhaps he has not 
taken any pledge? Has not R. Na’hman said that he who, 
hatchet in hand, says, “‘ I will go to cut down the tree belong- 
ing to so and so,’’ and thereafter the tree is found cut down, 
we nevertheless do not say that he did cut it down? Hence we 
see that a man ,may sometimes merely exaggerate or affect to 
do something and in reality does not do it; why then not say 
the same in our case? Read, then, in the Mishna that he ac- 
tually did seize a pledge. But if so, let the witness testify as 
to what the pledge was? Said Rabba b. b. ’Hana in the name 
of R. Johanan: The Mishna speaks of the pledger as claiming 
that the defendant seized some small utensils’ which he concealed 
under his garments (so that the witnesses could not see them, 
according to Rashi; according to Tasspheth, however, plaintiff 
claims that the defendant took more than the part the witnesses 
could see). 

R. Jehudah said: If witnesses saw one concealing utensils 
under his garments when coming out from a house, and he 
claims that he had bought them, he is not trusted (in case the 
owner of said house claims that he only loaned them to the de- 
fendant), provided the owner of the house was not wont to sell 
his utensils, but if he was so, the defendant may be trusted; and 
even in this case he is not trusted if such utensils are not as a 
rule to be concealed, but if they are so he may, again, be 
trusted; and even when they are not ordinarily hidden, but the 
defendant was of such a standing as would not allow him to 
carry things publicly, it may be assumed that such is his usage 
and therefore he may be trusted. All this refers only to a claim 
of hiring and loaning; if, however, the claim concerns stealing, 
the plaintiff is not trusted when he makes one a thief who is not 
suspicious of being such (but the defendant has to swear that he 
bought them). Furthermore, even in the case where the de- 
fendant is not reliable he is not to be trusted only with regard 
to utensils not used for loan and hire, but in case the utensils 
are loaned or hired out, he is trusted; as concerning this R, 
Huna b. Abin once sent a message (see Middle Gate, p. 306 f.). 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 99 


Rabha said: In case one was going to seize the goods of an- 
other, even the watchman of the house or his wife is trusted on 
an oath, and the defendant must pay. Questioned R. Papa: Is 
a laborer who was doing some work in the house at that time 
trusted in this case on an oath? This question remains unde- 
cided. 

R. Yemar said to R. Ashi: If the claim is for a silver goblet, 
may the defendant be trusted with an oath or not? (and R. Ashi 
answered: We have to inquire into the position of the man; if 
he is wealthy or so much respected that people deposit with him 
valuables of this kind, he is trusted, otherwise he is not trusted). 

‘* How is it with the bruised,’’ etc. Said R. Jehudah in the 
name of Samuel: The oath applies only in such a case when the 
plaintiff could himself cause a wound, but if it was not possible 
for him to do so, he recovers his claim without an oath. But 
why not fear that he may have hurt himself against a wall or 
astone? Taught R. Hyya: It speaks of this case, the wound is 
found on his shoulder or under the arm. But it may have been 
inflicted by someone other than the defendant? There was 
nobody else in the house. 

‘“* Even for merely vain swearing.’’ Why even? It means 
to say: not only; z.e., not only if suspicious of an oath where 
denial of money is involved, but also even if suspicious of such 
where only a denial of words is involved, he is not trusted. But 
if so, let an uttered oath, too, be taught? The Mishna teaches 
but oaths which are made falsely, while an uttered oath may be 
made for the future and may therefore be fulfilled. But again, 
let it include an uttered oath for the past? In teaching vain 
swearing it indeed includes all that is equal thereto. 

‘“A gambler in dice,’’ etc. To what purpose is this state- 
ment? The Mishna classifies first those who are unfit biblically 
and then also the rabbinically unfit. 

‘In case both are suspictous,’’ etc. Rabha questioned R. 
Na’hman: How should we read in the Mishna, R. Mair holds, 
they divide or R. Jose holds so? Answered he: I do not know. 
How then shall the Halakha prevail? Answered he again: I do 
not know. However, it was taught that R. Joseph b. Miniumi 
said in the name of R. Na’hman that R. Jose was the one who 
said they divide; likewise taught R. Zebid b. Oshia, or R. Zebid 
in the name of Oshia. And R. Joseph b. Miniumi said that 
such a case happened in the court of R. Na’hman and the de- 
cision was to divide. 


100 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘“ The oath returns to its place.’’ To which place? Said R. 
Ami: According to our masters in Babaylon, it returns to its 
place, the Mount Sinai; and our masters in Palestine said: It 
returns to him who was obliged to take it (and as he cannot 
swear, he must pay). Said R. Papa: ‘‘ Our masters in Baby- 
lon’’ means Rabh and Samuel—viz.: our Mishna states that 
orphans shall not pay without an oath, and it was discussed as 
to what it means: shall we assume that the orphans cannot re- 
cover from the borrower unless they take an oath; is this possi- 
ble, since their father, if alive, could recover without an oath, 
why should they swear? It must then be explained to mean 
orphans that have to recover from other orphans; and both 
Rabh and Samuel said provided the lender died while the bor- 
rower was still alive, but if the borrower died first the lender 
was already obliged to swear in order to recover from the 
orphans of the borrower the latter’s debt, and as a man cannot 
bequeath an oath to his children the oath returns to the Mount 
Sinai (2.e., there is no oath here); as to the masters of Palestine, 
it is R. Abain the case of a robbed piece of metal mentioned 
above and tried before him when he decided that as the defend- 
ant is obliged to swear but cannot, he must pay. Said Rabha: 
The Halakha seems to prevail with R. Aba; as it reads [ Exod. 
xx. 10]: “‘ The oath of the Lord be between ¢hem,’’ etc., but 
not between their heirs. Now, let us see the nature of the 
case: if the heirs of the plaintiff claim that their father had a 
mana with the defendants’ father and the others answer: We 
are aware that he had only fifty dinar, then it is a partial admis- 
sion; what difference then is there whether the plaintiff himself 
or his heirs appear in the case? We must then say that the 
defendant orphans say that they are aware of fifty dinar, but 
are not aware of the other fifty dinar; now, if you say that such 
answer if put in by the defendant himself would oblige him to 
an oath, it is correct that the above-cited verse is needed to free 
the heirs from an oath; but if the defendant would not have to 
swear, then what is the verse for? Hence, whoever is obliged 
to swear but cannot swear (as in the case of the orphans) he 
must pay, as R. Aba decided in the case before him. 

But what do Rabh and Samuel infer from the above-cited 
verse?. What was said above by Simeon b. Tarfon: The verse 
comes to indicate that the oath rests upon both the contestants. 

‘‘ The storekeeper,’’ etc. There is a Boraitha: Rabbi said, 
why should these be troubled with an oath? Said R. Hyya to 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). IOI 


him: We have learned that both the storekeeper and employees 
have to swear (the employees that they have not received goods 
in the value of such and such an amount on account of their 
employer; and the storekeeper that he has not yet been paid for 
the goods), and both storekeeper and employees collect from the 
employer. Has Rabba accepted R. Hyya’s theory or not? 
Come and hear the following: Rabba said that the laborer has 
to take an oath that he has received nothing from the store- 
keeper; now, if Rabba had accepted R. Hyya’s theory, it would 
have been stated here that the oath must be taken with refer- 
ence to the employer. Said Rabha: This Boraitha intends to 
say thus: the laborer takes an oath with reference to the em- 
ployer and in the presence of the storekeeper that he (the laborer) 
has taken nothing from the latter. 

It was taught: If there were two parties of witnesses contra- 
dicting each other, each party may, according to R. Huna, ap- 
pear and testify for itself (although either of the parties is surely 
false, for the court in default of evidence cannot decide which 
one is true or false). R. ’Hisda, however, maintains that we 
have nothing to do with false witnesses (and consequently 
neither party be trusted). Illustration: If there were two cases 
with two lenders, two borrowers, and two documents, and one 
witness of each of the two parties of witnesses was signed on 
the document of the other contestant, R. Huna and R. ’Hisda 
differ: according to former both the documents are valid, and 
according to R. ’Hisda they are both invalid as they are both 
false. On the other hand, if there was but one lender with two 
documents against one borrower, all agree that the lender has 
to suffer; but if there were two lenders with two documents 
against one borrower, it is a case treated of in our Mishna—(viz. : 
the employees say they have received nothing and claim their 
pay from the employer, and the storekeeper asserts to have 
given goods to the employers and claims his pay also from the 
employer, in which case the Mishna decides that both the claim- 
ants swear and recover from the employer); but what is the law 
in case there were two borrowers and one lender with two docu- 
ments signed by the two mutually contradicting parties of wit- 
nesses, according to R. Huna? Shall we assume that as there 
are two borrowers we should regard each of the documents as 
though it were the right one and colleet thereupon the two, or 
as one of the documents is doubtless false the two should be re- 
garded invalid? This question remains undecided. 


102 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘“‘ Tf he said to the storekeeper: Give me fruit for a dinar.”’ 
There is a Boraitha: R. Jehudah said, provided the fruit is 
lying there in a heap and each of the parties is claiming that it 
is his, but if the customer has the fruit in his basket and put 
latter upon his shoulders the burden of proof lies upon the - 
plaintiff. 

““ Tf he says to the money changer,’’ etc. These two cases are 
necessary, since if only the former is stated, one might say that 
because fruit decays the storekeeper was in haste to put it into 
the basket for his customer before yet receiving the money; 
therefore he may be trusted; while, this not being the case with 
money, it is usual not to give the change before receiving the 
money, hence, the rabbis, too, would agree with R. Jehudah. 
On the other hand, if only the second case were stated one 
might say that only for this reason R. Jehudah differs with the 
rabbis, while concerning fruit he agrees with them, therefore the 
two cases are necessary. 

‘‘ And also the orphans,” etc. (This has been explained 
above to mean orphans versus orphans, and what Rabh and 
Samuel have to say on this point is all recapitulated.) This 
statement was sent to R. Elazar accompanied with the question 
as to the purpose of this oath, and he answered: The heirs have 
to take the usual oath of heirs (explained further on), and there- 
upon to collect the bequest. This statement was then again 
sent to R. Ami, who said: They do not cease sending questions 
again and again! If I found something worthy of notice in it, 
would I not notify you thereof, without waiting for your mes- 
sages? However, continued he, as this question has reached us 
already yet we have to say something thereabout viz.: If the 
lender was already summoned and it was decided that he has to 
take an oath, and he died in between, so that he was already 
obliged to swear to the orphans of the borrower, and as one can- 
not bequeath an oath to one’s children, they are free from oath; 
if, however, he has not yet been summoned, and hence not yet 
obliged to take an oath, the orphans of the lender have to swear 
the oath of heirs and thereupon collect the debt. 

R. Na’hman opposed: Does the court find one liable to an 
oath? With the death of the borrower the lender is by law 
liable to an oath with relation to the heirs; therefore, said he, 
it depends on whether or no the law, laid down above by Rabh 
and Samuel, is established; if yes, they are free, if not, they 
have to take an oath and collect. We see from this that R. 








TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 103 


Na’hman was in doubt; but has not R. Joseph b. Miniumi said 
above that R. Na’hman decided ina similar case that the contest- 
ants divide? R. Na’hman’s explanation here is in accordance with 
R. Mair, who holds, the oath returns to its place, but he himself 
holds with R. Jose: if one upon the death of his wife remarries 
and then dies, the widow and her heirs have the preference over 
the heirs of the first wife concerning their respective marriage 
contracts. We see then that the heirs collect without an oath? 
It speaks of the case they swore before dying. Comeand hear the 
second part: But his heirs may adjure the widow, her hiers, and 
all empowered by her. (We see then that as his heirs may give 
an oath to her heirs, the widow who has not sworn has be- 
queathed, as it were, to her heirs the power of taking an oath, 
and this is objecting to Rabh and Samuel?) Said R. Shmaia: 
The Boraitha here speaks alternatively—viz.: his heirs adjure ° 
her if she was a widow, and they adjure her heirs if she was but 
a divorced woman (his heirs may adjure her though he himself 
could not have done so, as he gave her a document freeing her 
from all oaths). R. Nathan b. Hoshia, however, objected from 
the following: Preference was given to the son over his father, 
in that the son may collect from the orphans if he holds a docu- 
ment against the borrower, provided he has evidence that his 
father before dying told him that the document has not yet been 
paid, and if he has no evidence he has to swear to this effect; 
on the other hand, his father can under no circumstances collect 
without an oath; hence, the son may collect without an oath in 
relation to the defendant orphans, if the borrower died when the 
lender was still alive? Thus we see that it is in accordance with 
R. Simeon b. Gamaliel from our Mishna? Said R. Joseph: This 
Boraitha is in accordance with the school of Shamai, who holds 
that a document which is to be collected is to be regarded as 
already collected (as the estate is encumbered to the document), 
hence the rule that the son collects upon presenting evidence of 
his father’s statement. 

R. Na’hman happened to be in Tura; both R.’ Hisda and 
Raaba b. R. Huna came to visit him, and asked him thus: Let 
the master conjoin with us in nullifying the statement of Rabh 
and Samuel; whereupon he answered: Have I troubled myself 
to make a journey of so many garsas to nullify the statement of 
these sages! It will suffice if I will agree with you not to add to 
their statement (z.¢., not to deduce therefrom any other cases). 
(Asks the Gemara): What other cases? £.g., such as were 


104 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


decided by R. Papa: He who impairs his document (by saying 
that he collected a part thereof), and thereafter dies, his heirs 
may take the oath of heirs and collect the money (which oath 
could not be taken according to Rabh and Samuel). 

It once happened that 4, who had borrowed money of 4A 
through a surety and on a document, died, 4 being still alive; 
thereafter A also died and his heirs claimed the debt from the 
surety. R. Papa, before whom the case was tried, was about 
to say that this is a case included in the decision of R. Na’hman 
that nothing be added to Rabh and Samuel’s ruling, and in this 
case the heirs are to collect not from the orphans but from the 
surety. Said R. Huna b. R. Jehoshua to him: Are they indeed 
collecting from the surety for his debt and not for that of the 

orphans? 2 
In another case the lender died childless, leaving a brother, 
and Rami b. Hama was about to say that R. Na’hman’s de- 
' cision includes this case, too. Said Rabha to him: Is there any 
difference between the heir’s saying ‘‘ my father told me,’’ or 
*“my brother told me’’? “Said R. Hama: As there is no ulti- 
mate decision as to whether the Halakha prevails with Rabh and 
Samuel or not, we should leave it to the judges; he who decides 
in accordance with Rabh and Samuel should not be objected, 
nor should protest be raised against him who follows R. Elazar’s 
decision as a precedent. Said R. Papa: If such a case happens 
in our court, we shall not destroy the document, nor collect it, 
for fear the Halakha may prevail with Rabh and Samuel; how- 
ever, not destroy it, in order to give the contestant the benefit 
of doubt and enable him to bring his case in another court. 

Once a judge followed in his decision R. Elazar; a young 
scholar interested in this problem came to the judge and told 
him that he is able to produce a letter from the west attesting 
that the Halakha does not prevail with R. Elazar; and the judge » 
said to him: Well, produce the letter and we will then see. 
The scholar, however, came to complain in the court of R. 
_ Hama, and latter answered that it is already decided thus: He 
who follows R. Elazar’s ruling as a precedent cannot be pro- 
tested against. 

‘* The following have to swear,’’ etc. Does the Mishna speak 
of idiots? It means to say that these persons have to swear if 
they say they are not certain of the claim. 

There is a Boraitha: The son of the house mentioned in the 
Mishna is not he who frequents the house, but he who is taking 











ae 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 105 


care of the estate: he engages and discharges laborers, buys and 
sells, etc. And why should such persons take an oath? Be- 
cause as a rule they allow themselves more than what is due to 
them. Said R. Joseph b. Miniumi in the name of R. Na’hman: 
Provided there was a denial made to the claim of two silver, 
according to the decision of Rabh. 

‘“‘ Tf the partners and gardeners,’ etc. The schoolmen pro- 
pounded a question: May one include in a rabbinical oath a 
claim from another business? Come and hear: If one has bor- 
rowed on the eve of the Sabbathic year and at the end of the 
year he become the partner or gardener of the lender, no inclu- 
sion can take place in the partner-oath if he has to take such. 
Thus we see the reason here to be that he borrowed on the eve 
of the Sabbathic year as this year released him from the oath © 
also, but in a simple year such an oath may be inclusive? Nay; 
do not say that in a simple year the oath may be inclusive, but 
if he becomes a partner or a gardener (of the lender) on the eve 
of the Sabbathic year and at the end of the same he borrowed 
money from him, he may in his oath include also the partner- 
oath from the Sabbathic year; as the second part of the Boraitha 
states it so plainly, hence, a rabbinical oath is inclusive, 

R. Huna said: All the oaths are inclusive except the oath 
of an employee, as this oath is given merely for the purpose of 
gratifying the employer. R. ’Hisda said: No oaths are to be 
made lenient in this respect except the oath of an employee, 
toward which we have to act leniently. And what is the differ- 
ence between these two opinions? The requiring by the court: 
according to R. Huna the court itself may declare the oath in- 
clusive independently of the plaintiff, while according to R. 
"Hisda the court has no jurisdiction unless the plaintiff re- 
quires so. 

‘* The Sabbathic year releases.’’ Whence is this deduced? 
From [Deut. xv. 2]: “‘ And this is the verbum (debar) of the 
release,’’ 2.¢., it releases even words. 


CHAPTER VIII. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE FOUR KINDS OF BAILEES: 
THE CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH THEY ARE TO PAY OR TO TAKE 
AN OATH.—WHAT IS AN UTTERED OATH, A VAIN OATH, A FALSE 
OATH.—CASES ILLUSTRATING THE VARIOUS CLAIMS REGARDING 
THE FOUR KINDS OF BAILEES. 


MISHNA /J/.: There are four kinds of bailees: gratuitous, 
on hire, borrower, and hirer. The gratuitous bailee swears to 
every claim; the borrower pays every claim; the paid bailee as 
well as the hirer swears in case the cattle broke its leg or was 
’ seized or died, but both pay when it got lost or stolen. If one 
asks his gratuitous bailee:» Where is my ox? He is dead, while 
in reality he is only leg-broken, or seized, or stolen, or lost; or 
he answers: He is leg-broken, while in fact he is dead, seized or 
lost; or he answers: He is seized, while he is dead, leg-broken, 
stolen or lost; or he answers: He is lost, while in fact he is 
dead, leg-broken, seized or stolen, to which the other rejoins: 
I adjure you; and the answer is: Amen, he isfree. Where is 
my ox? And the other one answers: I know not what you talk 
about, while in reality the ox is dead, leg-broken, seized, stolen 


or lost. I adjure you. Amen, he is free. But if he asks:. 


Where is my ox? Lost. I adjure you. Amen, but witnesses 
appear to testify that he consumed him, he must pay the full 
value; if he confesses it of his own will he must pay the value 
plus one-fifth, and is to bring a trespass-offering. If he asks: 
Where is my ox? And the answer is: Stolen. I adjure you. 
Amen, and witnesses appear to testify that he himself stole the 
ox, he must pay double amount; on self-confession, however, 
he pays the value plus one-fifth, and brings an offering. 

If one says to a man in the street: Where is my ox that you 
have stolen? And the answer is: I have not stolen, but wit- 
nesses testify that he did steal him, he is to pay double amount; 
and if he has slaughtered or sold him, he must pay four and 
five-fold. However, if, on noticing the approach of witnesses 


against him, he says: I have stolen him, but not slaughtered or 
106 


iM a eed” 


i th i a 











TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 107) 


sold, he is to pay but the principal amount. If one asks the 
borrower: Where is my ox? And he answers: He died, while 
in reality he is leg-broken, seized, stolen or lost; or: Leg-broken, 
while he is dead, seized, stolen or lost; seized, while he is dead, 
leg-broken, stolen or lost; stolen, while he is dead, leg-broken, 
seized or lost; Lost, while he is dead, leg-broken, seized or 
stolen, whereupon the other one says: I adjure you, and the an- 
swer is: Amen, he is free. Where is my ox? I know not what 
you are talking about, while in fact the ox is dead, leg-broken, 
seized, stolen or lost. I adjure you. Amen, he is liable. If 
one says to a paid bailee or to a hirer: Where is my ox, and he 
answers: He is dead, while he is leg-broken or seized; Leg- 
broken, while he is dead or seized; seized, while he is dead or 
leg-broken; stolen, when he is lost or seized; lost, while he 
has been stolen, whereupon former: I adjure you. Amen, he 
is free. But if the answer be: He is dead, leg-broken or seized, 
while he has been stolen or lost, former: I adjure you. Amen, 
he is liable. But if he says: he has been stolen, or: lost, while 
he is dead, leg-broken or seized; I adjure you. Amen, he is 
free. This is the rule: Whoever tends to commutate, by his 
oath, liability to liability, unliability to unliability, or unliability 
to liability, is free; but if liability to unliability, he is liable. 
This is the rule in brief: Whoever takes an oath in order to 
make his case lenient, is liable; but if véce versa, he is free. 
GEMARA: Who is the Tana of the four classes of bailees? 
Said R. Na’hman in the name of Rabba b. Abuhu: It is R. 
Mair. Said Rabha to him: Is then there a Tana who does not 
hold so? And the answer was: I mean to say who is the Tana 
that maintains that the hirer of a thing is under the same rule 
with a bailee for pay? and this is R. Mair, according to Rabba 
b. Abuhu. But is there not a Boraitha that R. Mair holds a 
hirer under the law of a gratuitous bailee, and R. Jehudah is the 
one who places him under the law of a paid bailee? Rabba b. 
Abuhu has reversed in the Mishna the order of the names (by 
tradition). But after all, according to both R. Mair and R. 
Jehudah there are but three classes of bailees, why then four in 
the Mishna? Said R. Na’ hman b. Itz’hak, the Mishna means 
to say: There are four classes of bailees but their laws are three. 
‘* T know not what you talk about.’’ Said Rabh: All the ex- 
pressions ‘‘ free’’ used in the Mishna free only from the liability 
of a trespass-offering, attaching to a depositary, but not from 
that of a sin-offering, attaching to an uttered oath. Samuel, 


108 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


however, maintains that it frees them even from the last- 
mentioned liability. 

And what is here the point of difference? Samuel holds that 
as such an oath can not refer to the future, one is not liable 
even for the past; while Rabh does not share this opinion. But 
this their difference has already been pointed out above in con- 
nection with the oath made by A that # threw a stone into the 
sea, why then again? It was necessary, as in the case of throw- 
ing a stone Rabh holds 4 liable because he takes the oath on 
his own accord, but here, where the court compels him to swear, 
one might say that Rabh agrees with Samuel, which would be 
in accordance with R. Ami, who said elsewhere that one is not 
liable for an uttered oath when made by the judges to swear; 
on the other hand, if only this were stated one could say that 
only in this case Samuel differs with Rabh, but in the other one 
he agrees with him. 

What is the reason of R. Ami’s statement? It is the verse 
[Lev. v. 4]: ‘“ Or any person swear,’’ which means he swears 
voluntarily. 

R. Elazar, however, mid with reference to the expression 
** free’’ the Mishna uses: all are free from a depositary-oath but 
are liable for an uttered oath, excepting, however, the follow- 
ing: a borrower answering ‘‘ I know not what you talk about,”’ 
the paid bailee who claims stolen or lost, the hirer claiming 
stolen or lost, in which cases the Mishna makes them liable to 
depositary-oath, because here a denial of cash money is involved. 


APPENDIX TO PAGE 13. 


R. Na’hman b. R. ’Hisda lectured: A fowl burnt-offering 
must not be bought from the money of the treasury. Said 
Rabha: This is nonsense! Said R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak to him: 
Why nonsense? / said it to R.Na’hman b. ’Hisda, in the name 
of R. Shimi of Nahardea, and the reason is that for the remain- 
ing money of the treasury burnt-offerings for the congregation 
are bought, and there is no fowl-offering for the congregation. 
In like manner Samuel holds what was said in the name of R. 
Johanan concerning daily offerings; as R. Jehudah said in his 
name that all the offerings of the congregation are prepared for 
what they are intended by the application of the knife to them 
(and no knife is used to a fowl-offering). So also we have learned 











TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 109 


. . inthe following Boraitha: R. Simeon admits concerning a he-goat 





that was not offered on the festival, that he may be offered on the 
new-moon or day of atonement, on the feast of Tabernacles, and 
may as well remain for the next holidays, since originally he was 
intended as an offering to be brought on the exterior altar. 


- ' END OF TRACT SHEBUOTH. 











vi Wy rips fe} 


sie or 
5 ae 


Wench 
ye 


We roe 
Uplate ( 
* y 





INTRODUCTION. 


THERE is no Gemara to this Tract. However, it forms a 
part of the section Jurisprudence, and is usually printed with 
the commentaries of both Maimanides and Rabad. 

Although these Mishnaioth are almost each of them repeated 
in some of the six sections of the Talmud (thus a number of 
them already translated by us), yet we could not omit them be- 
cause of the significance they attain in view of the fact that the 
contents of them all were testified before the Assembly of the 
sages. The first chapter, however, of this Tract, which was not 
testified, is significant for its showing (a) the cases wherein the 
sages establish the Halakha without adopting the views of either 
_ Shamai or Hillel though expressed by each of them personally; 
(4) wherein the school of Hillel after deliberations abandoned 
their view to adopt that of the school of Shamai; (c) the reasons 
for the rule that the opinion of an individual is mentioned though 
the Halakha prevails with the majority; (d) where the school 
of Shamai do not agree with Shamai, their master. 

We have translated this Tract almost literally, referring the 
reader who may be confronted with some difficulties to places 
where detailed explanations are found, as to explain these here 
would necessitate a whole volume for itself. 





TRACT EDUYOTH (TESTIMONIES). 





CHAPTER. I. 


MISHNA /.: Shamai says: For all women suffices their 
perceiving the menses (to make unclean whatever one of them 
may happen to touch; but not before this perceiving). Hillel, 
however, says: The time is to be counted between two consecu- 
tive examinations regardless of the length of the interval and be 
it of many days (and all she touches at that time is unclean), 
The sages, however, say: The Halakha prevails with neither 
Shamai nor Hillel; but one day (night included) reduces the in- 
terval between the said examinations; on the other hand, the 
moment of examination reduces the allowance of the day (and 
night). (However, all agree) that for every woman who-has a 
regular periodic menstruation the perceiving suffices. She who 
uses sheets to examine herself before and after intercourse, re- 
duces thereby both the time of the previous examination and 
the above-said day of allowance.* 

MISHNA //.: Shamai says: One must separate Chalah (first 
dough) from one Kab; Hillel says from no less than two, while 
the sages set the minimum at one and a half Kab, lowering it, 
however, to five-fourths of a Kab when the measures were in- 
creased. R. Jose says: Not exactly five-fourths, but a trifle 
above. 

MISHNA J///.: Hillel says: One Hin-ful of drawn water 
renders a legal bath,+ when poured therein, unfit. (A Hin-ful 
is not the exact quantity, but is stated here as it is one’s duty 
to use the teacher’s language.) Shamai says: Nine Kab, while 
the sages, disagreeing with either view, uphold the two weavers 
that came from the gates-of-refuse in Jerusalem and testified in 
the name of Shemai and Abtalion that three Lugs of drawn 





* This Mishna is the first in the I. Chapter of Tract Nidah, and will be trans- 
lated in the proper place with the Gemara. 
¢ In case same does not yet contain the legally prescribed 40 saah. 
5 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


water render the aforesaid bath unfit, and decided that Halakha 
to prevail so. 

MISHNA /V.: Why, then, are the theories of Shamai and 
Hillel stated at all, if without avail? To teach to posterity that 
one must not insist upon one’s statements, since the distin- 
guished masters of the world did not persist in their views. 

MISHNA V.: And why is mention made of the opinion of 
a single person in connection with that of many, when the final 
decision is invariably with the majority? In order that when a 
court should happen to approve of some one’s opinion it might 
base its decision thereon, for no court may annul the decision of 
another court, unless it be superior to latter both in erudition 
and number. If, however, it be superior only in one respect: 
in either erudition or number, it cannot annul; as it must be 
superior in both. 

MISHNA VZ.: Said R. Jehudah: If this be the case, why 
is mention made of the opinion of an individual in connection 
with that of the majority to no purpose? In order that if one 
were to base his argument on tradition he could be answered that 
his tradition is in accordance with the opinion of that and that 
individual. 

MISHNA V//.: Beth Shamai says: A quarter Kab of the 
bones of the dead (defiles one in the tent) be it from two or 
three dead; Beth Hillel says: A quarter Kab from one corpse, 
from the quarter part of the entire structure, or of the number 
of bones. Shamai himself says: One bone suffices. 

MISHNA V///.: Vetch terumah may, according to Beth 
Shamai, be soaked and peeled in a state of cleanness, but in that 
of uncleanness the cattle may be fed onit. Beth Hillel, how- 
ever, hold that in the former state it may be soaked only, while 
peeling and feeding may be done in the latter. Beth Shamai 
says: It must be very dry when given to the cattle; R. Aqiba 
holds that in a state of uncleanness all actions may be performed 
on it. : 

MISHNA /X.: If one desires a sela in exchange for copper 
coin of the second tithe, he must, according to Beth Shamai, 
exchange the whole coin for a sela, while the Beth Hillel main- 
tain that he may take but one shekkel in silver and the other 
have in copper coin.* (R. Mair says): One must not redeem 
fruit and silver by other silver, while the sages allow it. 





* All this receives its explanation in Tract Second-Tithe, section Seeds. 











TRACT EDUYOTH (TESTIMONIES). 


MISHNA X.: When one exchanges a sela of second tithe 
in Jerusalem, he must, according to Beth Shamai exchange the 
entire sela for copper coin; Beth Hillel hold as above; the ex- 
perts* of the sages say: For three dinar in silver and one dinar 
coin. R. Agiba’s opinion is: Three dinar in silver and of the 
fourth one a quarter in coin. R. Tarfon says: Four aspers in 
silver. Shamai himself says: Let him leave the sela in the store 
till he gradually consumes its worth in goods. 

MISHNA XZ: The bride’s chair, when stripped of its adorn- 
ments is declared by the Beth Shamai as subject to defilement, 
but not so by Beth Hillel. Former holds that even the seat 
alone of that chair is unclean. Similar are the respective opin- 
ions of the Beth Shamai and the Beth Hillel with reference to 
a chair put into a trough, the former declaring in addition the 
chair unclean if even only made ina trough. (Will be explained 
in Tract Kelim.) 

MISHNA XZ/.: Following are the cases wherein the Beth 
Hillel have altered their views in favor of those advanced by the 
Beth Shamai: The woman who upon coming from the sea-coun- 
tries asserts that her husband died may, according to the Beth 
Shamai, remarry or enter a levirat marriage; while the Beth 


Hillel contended: We heard this as holding good only concern- 


ing a woman who comes from the harvest; whereupon the Beth 
Shamai retorted: It is immaterial whether she comes from the 
harvest, olive gathering or from a sea-country; and the expres- 
sion ‘‘ harvest’ as used by the sages in this matter was one of 
fact; thereupon the Beth Hillel conceded. Furthermore, ac- 
cording to Beth Shamai such woman is allowed to marry and to 
obtain her marriage contract, which latter right the Beth Hillel 
denied her, whereupon the Beth Shamai argued: You allow a 
possible adultery, a rigorous transgression, and prohibit a money 
matter, a (lenient) misdemeanor? Whereto the B. Hillel re- 
joined: For we find that the heirs of the deceased cannot enter 
inheritance upon her statement alone. And Beth Shamai re- 
plied: But we are informed directly from her marriage contract, 
where the husband writes: If you get married to another one 
you should get what is here devised to you; thereupon the 
B. Hillel conceded to them. 

MISHNA X/7//.: He who is half slave and half free + works, 





* J.e.: Ben Azai, Ben Zoma, ’Hanan the Egyptian, and ’Hanania. 
+ Z.e., he was a slave of two masters, one of whom freed him. 


8 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


according to Beth Hillel, one day for his master and one for 
himself. Hereto objected the Beth Shamai: You amply pro- 
vide for his master but not for him; he has no right to marry 
either a slave or a free woman, nor should he remain single, for 
the world has been created for propagation, as it reads [Isa. xlv. 
18]: ‘‘ Not for naught did he create it; to be inhabited did he 
form it.’’ Accordingly, for the sake of a better organization of 
the world his master is compelled to wholly free him, and the 
slave writes him a note on the half of his value; and the Beth 
Hillel accepted this opinion. 

MISHNA XATJV.: An earthen vessel when covered protects 
(against tent-uncleanness) according to Beth Hillel all (it con- 
tains), while the Beth Shamai holds that it protects only food, 
beverages and earthen vessels. Asked Beth Hillel: Why? And 
they answered: Because it is unclean in the opinion of the Am- 
haretz, and no clean vessel is protective; and B. Hillel’s ques- 
tion as to why have you declared it protective of food and bev- 
erages, they meet thus: We declare these clean only for the 
Amharetz, but if you were to declare the vessel as such clean, 
it would be so in general; hereupon the B. Hillel agreed. 











CHAPTER Il. 


MISHNA J/.: R. ’Hanina the segan of the priests testified 
the following four statements—viz.: The priests have never 
hesitated to burn meat defiled in a secondary degree together 
with meat defiled in a primary degree, though latter augments 
the uncleanness of the former; R. Aqiba added: Nor have they 
ever hesitated to burn oil, that has become unusable through a 
defiled one though bathed during the day, in a lamp defiled 
through contact with one who touched a corpse, enougyy, the 
uncleanness of the oil is thereby augmented. 

MISHNA /J//.: Furthermore, he said: During all my life | 
I have not seen a hide (of a sacrificed animal found internally 
injured) brought out to the fireplace. Said R. Aqiba: We learn 
therefrom that when the first-born cattle on being stripped of 
its hide is found internally injured, the priests may use its hide. 
The sages, however, say: “‘ We have not seen’’ is no evidence, 
so that the hide must be removed to the fireplace. 

MISHNA J//.: The same R. ’Hanina testified that there 
was an old man in a little village near Jerusalem, who was lend- 
ing money to all the villagers, writing himself the notes and 
having others to sign them; when this case came before the 
sages, they declared it proper. From here is to infer that both 
woman and man may write she her divorce and he the receipt 
respectively, since the validity of a divorce is effected only by 
the undersigned thereon. 

He finally testified that, when an (unclean) needle was found 
in the flesh (of a sacrifice), the knife and the hands are clean, 
but the flesh is unclean; but if found in the paunch everything 
is clean. 

MISHNA JV.: R. Ismael propounded three things before 
the sages at Iabnah in the vineyard: (a) a cracked egg put upon 
a colewort of Terumah forms a combination except when put 
on like a hat; (4) an ear of corn left standing in the crop with its 
point toward the yet unreaped corn, belongs to the landowner 
provided it be capable of being cut off with the standing corn, 
otherwise it belongs to the poor (as forgotten); (c) a small garden 

9 


10 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


fenced with creeping vine may be sowed (with seeds) if it has 
enough room, so that the vine-dresser with his basket can stand 
on all its sides, but not otherwise. 

Three things have been propounded in the presence of R. 
Ismael, and as he did not express himself either for or against, 
R. Jehoshua b. Mathia interpreted them: (a) One who inflicts 
upon one’s self a sore on the Sabbath day is guilty if he did it 
in order to make a permanent orifice, but is free if.his purpose 
was to remove the pus; (3) one is free for hunting a snake on 
Sabbath in order to escape its bites, but is liable if for medicinal 
purposes; (c) earthen dishes used in cities are clean when in the 
tent of a corpse, but become unclean when carried by him who 
is possessed of a running issue, in which latter case R. Eliezar 
b. Zadok declares them also clean since their work has not yet 
been completed. 

MISHNA VZ.: R.-Ismael declared three things which R. 
Aqiba has not agreed in: Garlick, sour grapes, and unripe corn- 
ears ground (on Friday) before twilight may, according to R. 
Ismael, be finished after sunset, while R. Agiba does not 
allow it. : 

MISHNA V/Z.: Of the following three statements cited 
before R. Aqiba the first two were in the name of R. Eliezar, 
and the third one in that of R. Jehoshua: (2) A woman may go 
out on Sabbath in her gold city-crown; (4) hunters after an- 
other’s doves are unfit as witnesses; (c) when a weasel with a 
worm in its mouth runs over the breads of Terumah and it re- 
mains dubious as to whether or not the worm touched the breads 
they are clean. | 

MISHNA V///.: R. Aquiba has made statements, of which 
only the first two found the approval of the sages: (a) A sandal 
of the lime-burners is subject to defilement by the steps of him 
who has a running issue; (0) the remnants of an (unclean) oven 
are unclean when four hand-widths high, which height was 
thought before to be only three; (c) a chair, from whose seat 
two consecutive boards have been removed is, according to R. 
Agiba only, subject to defilement. 

MISHNA LY.: He (R. Agiba) was wont to say: The father 
conditions in his son beauty, force, wealth, wisdom, longevity, 
and the reward to be bestowed on (his) posterity; and herein 
lies the end of destiny, as it reads [Is. xli. 4]: ‘‘ He predeter- 
mines from the beginning of fate of the generations to come,”’ 
and though it reads [Gen. xvi. 13]: ‘‘ They will enslave them 








TRACT EDUYOTH (TESTIMONIES). i 


and torture them for 400 years,’’ yet we read further [ibid. xvi. ]: 
‘* The fourth generation will return again unto here.”’ 
MISHNA X.: Furthermore, he was saying: There are five 
things of a twelve months’ duration—viz.: the punishment of 
the generation of the flood, that of Job, of the Egyptians, of 
Gog and Magog in time to come [Ezek. xxxv. 2], and of the 
wicked in the infernum, for it reads [Isa. xv. 6]: “‘ It will take 
place (chodesh bechodsho) every month,’’ t.¢., from the month he 
died next year the same month renewed. R. Johanan b. Nari 
says (regarding the last point): It lasts only from Passover till 
Azereth, for it reads [ibid.]: ‘‘ From one festival to the other.”’ 


CUNAPTER iil. 


MISHNA /.: All objects that defile within the tent are, ac- 
cording to R. Dohssa b. Horkinoss, clean when they were 
brought into the house after having been divided in smaller 
parts; but the sages declare them unclean. How so? If one 
touches or carries two pieces of a carcass each of the size of half 
an olive, or touches of a corpse the size of a half an olive (and 
his body covers such a size) and such a size shelters him, or he 
covers as much as two halves of an olive, or only of a half an 
- olive but is roofed by such a size, R. Dohssa b. Horkinass declares 
him clean and the sages declare him unclean. But if he touches 
the size of half an olive while another thing covers both him 
and of a corpse the size of half an olive (or he covers such size 
and another thing covers him and such a size), he is clean (also 
according to the sages). R. Mair, however, said: Also herein 
the sages and R. Dohssa differ as above. (They declare) that 
all combine to render unclean except touching with carrying, 
and carrying with roofing. This is the rule: What bears one 
and the same name is index of uncleanness, two different names 
is one of cleanness. (All the Mishna is explained in third chap- 
.ter of Tract Oholoth (Tents). 


MISHNA /J/.: Food consisting of sundry parts does not, 


according to R. Dohssa b. Horkinass, combine (to the measure 
of an egg), while according to the sages it does so. R. Dohssa 
holds that it is allowed to exchange second tithe for uncoined 
money, while according to the sages it isnot. Finally, he holds 
that it suffices to bathe one’s hands to be allowed to touch the 
sin-cleansing water, while the sages say that (in this case) with 
the uncleanness of his hands the entire body is unclean. 
MISHNA ///.: The interior of a melon, as well as the peel 
strips of a colewort is as terumah allowed to laymen (non- 
priests), so R. Dohssa, while the sages do not allow it. He 
further holds that it is only then obligatory to separate the first- 
cut wool of five shorn sheep when each of them furnishes one 


and a half mana worth of wool, while in the opinion of the sages 
12 


- ea a a i I a a i i a 








TRACT EDUYOTH (TESTIMONIES). 13 


even when the wool of the five sheep is however little. (Is fur- 
ther explained in Tract Chulin, Chapter XI.) 

MISHNA JV.: According to R. Dohssa, all mats are get- 
ting unclean only when touched by a corpse, but according to 
the sages, also by (mere) pressure. He says further that all 
woven work remains clean except a girdle, but according to the 
sages all are subject to defilement, except, however, those of 
the wool-traders. 

MISHNA V.: A sling whose handle is embroidered is sub- 
ject to defilement. But if it is of leather R. Dohass declares it 
clean, and the sages, unclean. If its finger-hole has been sev- 
ered from it, it is clean, but also is unclean if only its end is 
severed. 

MISHNA VZ.: The wife (of a priest) that was in captivity 
is, according to R. Dohssa, allowed to eat terumah, while the 
sages say: There is a difference between one captive and an- 
other. Howso? If she says: I was in captivity, but am clean, 
she may eat, for the mouth that prohibits also allows, but if her 
captivity is attested by witnesses and she asserts thereupon to 
be clean, she is not allowed to eat. (Explained in Tract Kethu- 
both, Chapter IT.) 

MISHNA V/Z.: There are four doubtful cases ehaie R, 
Jehoshua declares the thing unclean and the sages, clean—viz. : 
(a) while the unclean is standing the clean one is passing, or 
(6) vice versa; (c) when something unclean is in the private 
ground, while something clean in the public grounds, or (d@) vice 
versa, in which cases it is doubtful whether or not one touched, 
roofed, or was moved by, the other. (Tract Taharoth, Chapter IT.) 

MISHNA V//Z.: Three things are declared unclean by R. 
Zadok and clean by the sages—viz.: (a) The exchanger’s nail; 
(6) the trunk of the bean-grinders, and (c) the screw of the stone 
sun-clock. (Kelim, Chapter XII.) 

MISHNA LX.: Four things are held unclean by R. Gamaliel 
and clean by the sages: (a) The cover of a metallic basket used 
in households; (4) the handle of a (bathing) scraper; (c) the un- 
finished metallic vessels, and (@) a board broken in two (equal) 
parts; in the last-named case, however, if the parts be unequal, 
the sages concur with R. Gamaliel in that the bigger part is 
unclean and the smaller, clean. (Ibid., ibid.,. Mishna VI.) 

MISHNA X.: In the decision of the following three R, 
Gamailiel is as rigorous as Beth Shamai: It is not allowed: (a) to 
keep warm on a holiday cooked food for Sabbath; (6) to put 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


together the parts of a chandelier on a hoilday, and (c) to bake 
(on a holiday) big loaves of bread, but only small ones. He 
said: During all the time they were baking in my father’s house 
only thin loaves, and he was answered: We can make no conclu- 
sion from your father’s house, who have always been rigorous to 
themselves, but lenient to all others, allowing them to bake not 
only big loaves but even big cakes on coal. 

MISHNA XZ/.: In the following three things, however, his 
decisions are lenient: It is allowed (a) to sweep (on holidays) 
between the bedsteads; (4) to put upon coals the fumigation, 
and (c) to roast a prepared kid on the first Easter evening, all 
which the sages forbid. 

MISHNA XV.: Three things R. Elazar b. Azaria allows and 
the sages forbid: (2) His cow was allowed to walk out (on Sab- 
bath) with the strap between her horns; (4) he allows to curry 
the cattle on holidays, and (c) to grind pepper in hand-mills 
adapted thereto. R. Jehudah maintains that point sub (0) is 
not allowable, as one could while currying make a sore, but 
allows to do it with a wooden comb, while the sages forbid both. 
(The last two Mishnas are explained in Tract Beitzah.) 








CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNA /.: In the following cases the decisions of Beht 
Shamai are lenient, and those of Beth Hillel rigorous. An egg 
laid on a holiday is, according to Beth Shamai, allowed to eat 
on that day, but is not so according to Beth Hillel. Regarding 
the removal of leaven (before Passover) Beth Shamai hold it 
must be of the size of an olive and leavened bread of that of a 
date, while the Beth Hillel fix the size of each at that of an 
olive. | 

MISHNA J/.: All agree in that a cattle born on a holiday 
is allowed, but a fowl out of the eggs is not. If one slaughter 
game or fowl on a holiday he is allowed by Beth Shamai to dig 
up loose ground (the spade already struck in) and cover the 
blood, while Beth Hillel do not allow to kill unless there be 
earth prepared, admitting, however, that after one has killed, 
he may use with the spade the loose ground, and that ashes 
from the hearth be regarded as prepared earth. 

MISHNA ///.: The Beth Shamai consider ownerless every- 
thing left to the poor, while according to Beth Hillel, only that 
is ownerless which is abandoned to the rich as well, instance 
Shmitah. If all the sheaves of a field contain each a Kab and 
one of them containing four Kab is left, the Beth Shamai do 
not regard it forgotten, and Beth Hillel do so. (Tract Peah, 


- Chapter VI.) 


MISHNA J/V.: Likewise do not Beth Shamai regard forgot- 
ten a sheaf left near a wall, a stag, a bull, or implements; while 
Beth Hillel do. 

MISHNA V.: The four-year-old vine is, according to Beth 
Shamai, not subject to either the additional fifth or destruction, 
while according to Beth Hillel it is. Furthermore, the former 
hold that it is subject to both Peret and ozlleloth (Lev. xix. Io], 
and that the poor are to redeem it themselves; while the latter 
say it all goes to the winepress. 

MISHNA V/Z/.: A cask with preserved olives need not have 
a hole, so Beth Shamai, while Beth Hillel find it obligatory, 
admitting, however, that if there had been one, but was stopped 

T5 


16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


by the dregs, the cask is clean. If one, having besmeared his 
body with sweet oil, became unclean and then took a legal bath, 
Beth Shamai declare him clean even when the oil is dripping, 
but according to Beth Hillel he is not clean, unless there be left 
on him no more oil than would be necessary to besmear a small 
organ, which last condition the Beth Shamai require when the 
oil used before the bath was unclean, while Beth Hillel in this 
case require that there be only an inconsiderable moisture. Said 
R Jehudah in the name of Beth Hillel: That there be a mois- 
ture sufficient to moist some other thing. (All this will be ex- 
plained in Tract Taharath.) 

MISHNA VZ/.: According to Beth Shamai one dinar or its 
worth is consideration in the marrying of a wife; the Beth Hillel 
set it down at a Perutah or its worth, which is one-eighth of the 
Italic Saar. The former hold further that one may dismiss his 
wife on the basis of the old divorce bill, z.¢., a divorce after 
whose consummation he remained yet alone with his wife, while 
the Beth Hillel say he cannot. Similarly, if a wife who had 
been divorced, happened to pass a night in the same inn with 
her (former) husband, she needs no other bill of divorce accord- 
ing to Beth Shamai, but the Beth Hillel say she needs one if 
she was divorced after they had been wedded, but not after 
they had been only betrothed to each other, for in the latter 
case they were not yet intimate with each other. 

MISHNA V/Z/7.: Beth Shamai allow brothers to enter levi- 
rate marriage with their rival-wives (of prohibited kinship de- 
grees), which the Beth Hillel forbid. If they have performed 
Chalitzah, Beth Shamai declares them unmarriageable to a priest 
and Beth Hillel allows them. The two schools change their 
views regarding the case when the wives become widows after 
they had been taken in levirate marriage. Notwithstanding 
that the one school prohibits what the other allows, the disciples 
of the two schools have never refrained from intermarriage with 
one another. Likewise as regards cleanness and uncleanness 
where the two hold opposite opinions, they have none the less 
never hesitated to loan one another objects declared clean by 
both schools. | 

MISHNA /X.: If of three brothers two are married to two 
sisters and the third one is single; if, now, one of the married 
brothers died and the unmarried promises the widow to marry 
her, whereupon the second of the brothers died, Beth Shamai 
say: The single brother is to keep his wife and the other one is 


TRACT EDUYOTH (TESTIMONIES). 17 


to go free as the wife’s sister; while Beth Hillel hold that he 
must dismiss his wife with both divorce and Chalitzah, and his 
sister-in-law with Chalitzah; as the proverb goes: He is to be 
pitied for both his wife and his sister-in-law! (Tract Yebamoth, 
Chapter IV.) 

MISHNA X.: If one abstain by vow from sexual intercourse 
with his wife, he is allowed by Beth Shamai to keep the vow for 
two weeks, by Beth Hillel for but one. A woman who bears a 
miscarriage on the eve of eighty-one days (after the birth of a 
daughter) Beth Shamai free from an offering, and Beth Hillel 
hold liable. Beth Shamai say a quadrangular sheet needs no 
tzitzis, Beth Hillel hold it needs. A basket with figs prepared 
for Sabbath is, according to Beth Shamai free from the tithe, 
according to Beth Hillel it is not. 

MISHNA XZ: If one vowed to remain a Nazarite for some 
time, and after the expiration of the term comes to the land (of 
Israel), Beth Shamai hold he must continue in the state of 
Nazarite for another thirty days, while Beth Hillel make him 
begin the whole term anew. If two parties of witnesses testify, 
the one that so and so has vowed to be a Nazarite twice, the 
other, five times, Beth Shamai declare this testimony invalid as 
conflicting, and he must not be a Nazarite at all, while Beth 
Hillel say: Five contains two, hence he must be a Nazarite 
twice. (Nazir, Chapter III.) 

MISHNA XZ/.: The man who finds himself underneath a 
crevisse does not, according to Beth Shamai, transfer the un- 
cleanness from one side to the other, while Beth Hillel regard 
the man as hollow, so that his upper side does transfer the 
uncleanness (as roofing). (Oheloth, Chapter XI.) 


CHAPTER V. 


MISHNA J/.: R. Jehudah attested six cases where the de- 
cisions of the Beth Shamai are lenient, and those of Beth Hillel 
rigorous. The blood of a carcass is, according to the former, 
clean, but unclean, according to Beth Hillel. The egg of a fowl 
carcass, if it looks like the ordinary egg sold in market, is allowed 
by Beth Shamai, but not otherwise, while the Beth Hillel pro- 
hibit it in all cases. However, both prohibit the egg of an 
internally injured, for it was formed in a prohibited stage. 
The menses of a heathen woman as well as the clean blood of a 
leprous woman in confinement, Beth Shamai, declare clean and 
Beth Hillel consider it to be like her spittle or urine. The fruit 
of the Sabbathic year one may enjoy with or without reward, 
according to Beth Shamai, the Beth Hillel hold that one may 
eat it and reward somehow.the owner. A leather bag is subject 
to defilement, according to Beth Shamai, if it is bound and fast- 
ened, and the Beth Hillel hold so even when it is not bound. 
(Shebieth, IV.) 

MISHNA //.: R. Jose quotes also similar decisions of six 
cases. Beth Shamai allow to serve on the table, but not to eat, 
poultry together with cheese, while Beth Hillel forbid the one 
as well as the other. Likewise allow the former to separate 
Terumah from olives for their oil and for the wine from grapes, 
and the latter prohibit it. According to Beth Shamai he who 
sows seeds within four ells in the vineyard has thereby sanctified 
one row, while according to Beth Hillel, two rows (z.¢., the rows 
in question must not be sown). Flour put into boiling water is, 
Beth Shamai say, free from Chalah, and the Beth Hillel say it 
is not. The Beth Shamai allow to use rain-water (running down 
hill) as a legal bath, the Beth Hillel do not. Finally, Beth 
Shamai allow a proselyte, who underwent circumcision on the 
eve of Passover, to immerse himself and then partake in the 
Passover-offering, while Beth Hillel declare that he who parts 
with his prepuce is like one returning from the grave. | 

MISHNA J//.: R. Ismael cites to the same effect the de- 


cisions of the following three cases: The book Ecclesiastz does 
18 


TRACT EDUYOTH (TESTIMONIES). 19 


not, according to Beth Shamai, render unclean the hands, while 
it does so according to Beth Hillel. Sin-cleansing water that 
has already performed its destination is declared clean by former 
and unclean by latter. The same divergence of opinion the two 
schools show with regard to the cleanness and uncleanness of 
black cumin and its tithe. (Negaim, Mishna III., Chapter V.) 

MISHNA /V.: R. Elazar quotes two cases to the same 
effect. The blood of a woman lying-in, who has not bathed (as 
prescribed) is considered by Beth Shamaias her spittle and urine, 
while Beth Hillel declare it defiling always, moist or dry. The 
former agree, however, with the latter view when the woman in — 
question bore in a state of running issue, then the issue defiles 
immaterial whether dry or moist. (Tract Nidah II., Mishna VI.) 

MISHNA V.: If of four brothers two who are married to 
two sisters die, the latter perform Chalitzah but cannot enter 
the levirate marriage; and if such marriage has been hastily con- 
cluded, divorce must follow. R. Eliezar quotes the Beth 
Shamai as declaring this marriage to remain, and Beth Hillel as 
requiring divorce. 

MISHNA VZ/.: Aqavia b. Mehallalel testified four things, 
which the sages persuaded him to retract, promising him there- 
for the chair of presiding justice in Israel, to this he responded: 
I shall prefer to hear the name fool all my life to becoming a 
wicked even for one hour before the Omnipresent; but let 
nobody say ‘* He retracted for the sake of an office!’’ Here 
are his rules: He declared unclean the white hair (left from a 
previous case of leprosy) as well as the yellow blood (of a woman), 
both which the sages declare clean; he allowed to make use of 
the faded hair of a blemished first-born cattle slaughtered imme- 
diately after the hair has been put into a (wall) niches, while the 
sages forbid it; finally, he prohibited to give the jealousy-water 
to a female proselyte or to a freed maid-slave, which the sages 
allow. 

The following episode was thereupon presented to him: A 
certain Karkmith, a freed maid-slave in Jerusalem, was made to 
drink the aforesaid water by Shmaia and Ahtalion, to which he 
replied: They did it} only in a ‘‘ make-believe’’ way. (They, 
being themselves proselytes, did it.) And they placed him under 
ban, and when he died the court stoned his coffin. R. Jehudah 
remonstrated: That Aqavia b. Mehallalel, who among all Israel 
on whom the doors of the temple court-yard closed, was un- 
equalled in both erudition and piety, should have been placed 


20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


under ban? Impossible! It was Eliezar b. ’Hanoch that was 
excommunicated for his trifling with the rule concerning hand- 
cleaning; and when he died the court sent to put a stone on his 
coffin; whence it may be inferred that the coffin of him who dies 
while india ban is to be stoned. 

MISHNA V//.: While on his death-bed he ease b. 
Mehallalel) thus spoke to his son: Reject the four rules I have 
been teaching; I adhered to them because I had received them 
from a majority, and the others likewise had them from a sim- 
ilar source; we both, therefore, remained true to our traditions; 
but you have learned them of an individual and then of a major- 
ity, now it is more advisable to abandon the opinion of the indi- 
vidual and to follow that of the majority. Then the son’s 
request to commend him to his friends he refused, saying: It is 
not because I find fault with you, but let your own conduct be 
your recommendation. (Explained at length in Pessachim V., 
Mishna IV.) 


CHAPTER VI. 


MISHNA JZ: R. Jehudah b. Baba attested five cases. Girls 
under age are made to express their refusal; a woman is allowed 
to remarry on the testimony of one witness; in Jerusalem a cock 
that had killed a person was stoned; wine only forty days old 
was brought upon the altar as a drink-offering; and finally, the 
daily morning sacrifice was (once) offered at the fourth hour (in 
the morning). 

MISHNA J//.: R. Jehoshua and R. Nehunia b. Elinathan 
of the Babylonian village attested that an organ (even if not an 
olive big) of the dead is defiling, as against R. Eliezar, who 
asserts that the sages taught thus only in reference to an organ 
of alive body; and the others rejoined: Is it not an inference 
a fortiori—viz.: since the organ of a live body which latter is 
clean is, if severed, unclean, so much the more so that of a dead 
body, which {latter is of itself unclean? His answer was: And 
yet the sages taught so only in respect of an organ of a live 
body. According to others the answer was this: The unclean- 
ness of the living is more extensive than that of the dead, for 
the living (who has a running issue) renders all that he lies or 
sits on capable of defiling man as well as garments, and all that 
rests above him, by his exhalation capable of defiling food and 
beverage, all which the dead does not. 

MISHNA ///.: Flesh of the size of an olive severed from an 
organ dismembered from a living (person) is unclean according | 
to R. Eliezar, but clean according to R. Jehoshua and Nehunia. 
On the other hand, a bone the size of a barley-corn severed from 
said organ R. Nehunia declares unclean, and R. Jehoshua with 
R. Eliezar, clean. R. Eliezar was then asked: What prompts 
you to vindicate the former decision? Hereplied: We find that 
a severed live organ is regarded as a whole corpse; hence, as 
from a dead severed flesh of the size of an olive is unclean, sev- 
ered flesh of such size from the living must be unclean, too! I, 
therefore, base my decision on this analogy. Whereupon it was 
rejoined: While you justly declare unclean flesh of an olive size 


severed from a corpse, for a barley-corn-sized bone of a corpse 
21 


22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


is likewise unclean, you commit yourself to a discrepancy in 
your decision regarding the flesh and the bone of a severed organ 
of a living body respectively, whereby your analogy is anni- 
hilated! Similarly was R. Nehunia asked to base his view, 
which he did by a like analogy, thus: We find that a severed 
organ of the living is like an entire corpse and a barley-corn- 
sized bone of the latter is unclean, whence my decision. Where- 
upon he was answered: If you justly declare unclean so small 
a bone severed from a corpse by reason of holding unclean flesh 
the size of an olive severed from a corpse, you cannot on this 
basis declare unclean a bone the size of a barley-corn severed 
from the dismembered organ of a living body, since you hold 
clean the flesh even of an olive-size severed therefrom! 

R. Eliezar was then asked: Why have you divided your 
views? Declare either both unclean or both clean? And he 
answered: The uncleanness of the flesh is more extensive than 
that of the bones, because the flesh of carcasses and reptiles is 
defiling while bones of these are not. Another explanation ac- 
cording to others: An organ that has yet enough of its flesh on 
causes uncleanness through touching, carrying or sheltering it, 
and remains yet unclean even if it misses some of its flesh, while 
if some of its bone is wanting it is clean. 

R. Nehunia was asked: Why have you divided your views? 
Declare either both unclean or both clean? And he answered: 
The uncleanness of bones is more extensive than that of flesh, 
for flesh severed from the living body is clean, while the organ, 
if severed from it in its natural state, is unclean. Another ex- 
planation: Flesh the size of an olive defiles by being touched, . 
carried or sheltered, in like manner do bones defile in their 
majority; if some of the flesh misses it is clean none the less, if 
some of the majority of the bones lacks it is still unclean by 
touch and carriage, though not by shelter. Or thus: All the 
flesh of a corpse is clean when it does not all in all measure the 
size of an olive, while the greater part of its body or of its bones 
are unclean even when they do not make up a quarter of a Kab. 

R. Jehoshua answered the question as to why he decides in 
both cases ‘‘ clean,’’ thus: The analogy between the dead and 
the living does not hold good, for to the former apply the req- 
uisite of majority, quarter-Kab, and spoonful of decomposed 
stuff, while to the living all this does not apply. 


CHAPTER VII. 


MISHNA J/.: R. Jehoshua and R. Zadok attested that the 
priest has no claim to the assigned redemption of a first-born 
donkey that died, as against R. Eliezar, who said: The owner 
is obliged to indemnify it, as the five sela redemption of the 
first-born son. The sages, however, maintain that there is here 
no more obligation of indemnifying than in the case of redemp- 
tion for the second tithe. (Tract Bechoroth I., Mishna VI.) 

MISHNA //.: R. Zadok attested that the brine of the pro- 
hibited locusts is itself clean. For, the preceding Mishna reads: 
If unclean locusts have been pressed together with clean ones, 
they do not render the brine forbidden. 

MISHNA /J//.: The same attested further that if flowing 
water exceeds in quantity the rain-water with which it is mingled, 
it is proper. Such a case occurred in the capital of Plia and the 
sages declared it proper. 

MISHNA /V.: He attested, finally, that flowing water re- 
' mains proper as such when made to rush through the green peel 
of a walnut. A case to this effect happened at Ohlia and, when 
brought before the court in the Hall of hewed stones in the 
temple, was found proper. 

MISHNA V.: R. Jehoshua and R. Jakin from Hadar attested 
that an earthen pitcher with sin-cleansing ashes placed upon a 
reptile is unclean, while R. Eliezar declares it clean. R. Papies 
attests that he who, having vowed to be a Nazarite twice, had 
his hair cut the first time on the thirtieth day, may have his hair 
cut the second time on the sixtieth day; and if he cut his hair 
on the fifty-ninth day, he kept sufficiently his vow, since the 
thirtieth day is counted both ways. (Nazir, Chapter III.) 

MISHNA VZ.: R. Jehoshua and R. Papies attested that the 
offspring of a peace-offering may be offered as a peace-offering ; 
now, as the sages hold so against R. Eliezar who maintains the 
opposite, said R. Papies: I attest that we ourselves had a cow 
of a peace-offering which we ate on Passover, and whose 
offspring we consumed the next Tabernacle likewise as a peace- 
offering. (Themura, Chapter ITI.) 

23 


24 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


MISHNA V//.: The same two attested that the flat boards 
of the bakers are unclean, as against R. Eliezar, who declared 
them clean; furthermore that a baking oven cut in parts between 
which mortar has been put, is subject to defilement, as against 
R. Eliezar, who finds it clean; that the court of justice has time 
to declare the year to be a leap-year during the entire month 
Ador, for formerly the Purim feast was thought to be the time 
limit for this declaration; finally, that the year may be declared 
a leap-year on condition. So it once happened that when R. 
Gamaliel, having gone to ask leave of the Hegemon of Syria, 
tarried on his way, the year was declared a leap-year on the con- 
dition that R. Gamaliel consent to it on his return, which he 
did upon returning and the year remained a leap-year. (Kelim, 
Chapter XV.) 7 

MISHNA V///.: Mena’hem b. Signai attested that the 
enameled brim of the (metallic) kettle used by the olive-boilers 
is subject to defilement, but that of the painters is clean, for, 
formerly the converse was held. 

MISHNA LYX.: R. Nehunia b. Gudgada attested that a deaf- 
mute girl married off (while under age) by her father may re- 
ceive a divorce; that a minor (orphaned) Israel-girl married to 
a priest may eat Terumah, and that in case she dies her husband 
is her heir; furthermore, that the owner of a beam robbed and 
immured in a palace can claim only its value; finally, that a 
robbed sin-offering not known to the majority is regarded as 
atoning for its owner when offered on the altar (in order not to 
make the altar unclean). ) 


CHAPTER VIII. 


MISHNA J/.: R. Jehoshua b. Bathyra attested that the 
blood of carcasses is clean. R. Simeon b. Bathyra attested that 
the ashes of the sin-cleansing red cow, if touched even in part 
by an unclean one,. become all unclean; to which R. Agqiba 
added that he who has bathed for cleansing himself (and hence 
is not yet wholly clean) renders improper the whole of the holy 
flour, the frankincense, the incense and the coal on touching 
them only in part. 

MISHNA JZ: R. Jehudah b. Baba and R. Jehudah the 
priest attested that an (orphaned) Israel-daughter married under 
age to a priest is entitled to eat terumah soon after she was leg 
under the canopy, though before cohabitation. R. Jose the 
priest.and R. Zecharia the son of a butcher related the follow- 
ing: It happened that a small girl had been kidnapped by the 
heathens of Ashkalon; her kinfolks wanted to reject her from 
the family notwithstanding the assurance of the witnesses that 
she was not hiding with anybody nor dishonored, and the sages 
interfered, saying: If you believe her witnesses that she wag 
kidnapped, there is no reason for you not to believe that she 
was not hiding with anybody nor dishonored; on the other hand, 
if you distrust the latter part, don’t believe the former, either. 

MISHNA ///.: R. Jehoshua and R. Jehudah b. Bathyra 
attested that the widow of a priest of a doubtful pedigree may 
yet marry a priest, that such a doubtful family may enquire 
after the purity or impurity of its members, in order to separate 
itself from, or to approach them. Thereupon remarked R. 
Simeon b. Gamaliel: We accept your attestation, but what shall 
we do now that R. Johanan b. Zakkai has decreed not to call 
any jury on this point? The priests will surely follow you when 
a case of separation, but not when such of approaching, is con- 
_ cerned! 

MISHNA JV.: R. Jose b. Joezer, the man of Zereda, at- 
tested that the locust Az/ Kamza is allowed, that all liquids in 
the slaughter-house of the temple are not subject to defilement, 

25 


26 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and finally that only he is unclean who has surely touched a 
corpse. He received on this account the name, Jose the allower. 

MISHNA V.: R. Aqiba attested in the name of Nehemia 
from Beth D’lee, that the testimony of one witness suffices to 
allow a woman to remarry. R. Jehoshua attested that regard- 
ing bones found in the wood-barn (of the women’s courtyard in 
the temple) which are yet unclean, the sages say: Pick them 
out singly, bone by bone, and all remains clean. 

MISHNA VZ.: Said R. Eliezar: I heard that when the cen- 
tral hall of the temple was being built, curtains were put up 
before both the hall and the courtyards, with the difference, 
however, that inthe former the wall was built outside, while in 
the latter inside, of the curtains. R. Jehoshua said: I heard 
that it is allowed to offer sacrifices also when there is no temple, 
that the all-holiest offerings may be eaten also when there is no 
curtain; that leniently-holy offerings as well as second tithe may 
be eaten even if there be no city walls (around Jerusalem), for 
the first consecration has rendered her (the city) holy for her 
times as well as for all time to come. 

MISHNA V.: R. Jehoshua said: I have it by tradition from 
R. Johanan b. Zakkai, who heard it in direct line from his 
teacher, to be a Halakha from Sinai to Moses that Elijah is not 
coming in the future to declare certain families clean or unclean, 
to separate or to reconcile them, but to remove those who were 
reconciled by force, and to bring together those who were segre- 
gated by force. A family of the name Bethz’repha was across 
the Jordan, excluded by a certain Ben Zion with the use of 
force; another family (of impure blood) was in the same manner | 
accepted by the same Ben Zion. It is to declare cases of this 
kind clean or unclean, to remove or to accept that Elijah is 
coming. R. Jehudah says: Only to accept, but not to remove. 
R. Simeon says: His mission is only to settle certain disputes, 
The sages, however, say: His advent will have for its purpose 
not the removing or accepting of the mentioned cases but the 
establishing of peace in the world, for it is written [ Malachi, iii. 
23, 24]: ‘‘ Behold, I send unto you the prophet Elijah, ... 
and he shall turn back the heart of the fathers to the children, 
and the heart of the children to their fathers.”’ 


END OF TRACT EDUYOTH AND OF VOLUME XVII. 








NEW EDITION 


OF THE 


BABYLONIAN TALMUD 


Original Tert, Edited, Corrected, Formulated, and 
Translated into English 


BY 


MICHAEL L. RODKINSON 


SECTION JURISPRUDENCE (DAMAGES) 


TRACTS ABUDA ZARA AND HORIOTH 


Volume X. (XVIII) 


NEW YORK 
NEW TALMUD PUBLISHING COMPANY 
1117 SIMPSON STREET 


¢ 


EXPLANATORY REMARKS. 


t 
In our translation we adopted these principles: } 


1. Zenan of the original—We have learned ina Mishna; Tania—We have 
learned in a Boraitha; /temar—It was taught. 


2. Questions are indicated by the interrogation point, and are immediately 
followed by the answers, without being so marked. 


3. When in the original there occur two statements separated by the phrase, 
Lishna achrena or Waibayith Aema or kha d’amri (literally, ‘otherwise interpreted”), 
we translate only the second. 


4. As the pages of the original are indicated in our new Hebrew edition, it is not 
deemed necessary to mark them in the English edition, this being only a translation 
from the latter. 


5. Words or passages enclosed in round parentheses ( ) denote the explanation 
rendered by Rashi to the foregoing sentence or word. Square parentheses [ ] contain 
commentaries by authorities of the last period of construction of the Gemara. 


COPYRIGHT, 1903, BY 
MICHAEL L. RODKINSON. 


CONTENTS. 





PAGE 
SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS OF TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY), Vv 


CHAPTER I. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING TRANSACTION OF BusI- 
NESS WITH FEATHENS ON THEIR FESTIVAL Days; WHICH 
FESTIVALS ARE CONSIDERED, AND WHAT REAL ESTATE 
May BE SOLD AND RENTED, AND AT WHAT PLACES . I 


CHAPTER II. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING PLACING OF CATTLE 
WiTH HEATHENS, ACCEPTING CURE FROM THEM, AND 
CONCERNING THINGS WHICH May anp May Nort BE 
BOUGHT FROM THEM , ‘ : , ‘ Bk Lay 


CHAPTER III. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE DERIVING OF 
BENEFIT FROM PROFANED IDOLS AND IMAGES OF HEATHENS 
AND ISRAELITES.—CONCERNING UTENSILS ON WHICH ARE 
ENGRAVED THE SUN, THE MOON AND OTHER PLANETS, 82 


CHAPTER IV. 


CONCERNING OsjecCTS UsEeD FoR IpDoLS.—THE MANNER IN 
WHICH AN IDOL Is PROFANED SO AS TO BE ALLOWED FOR 
Ust.—THE Discussions BETWEEN THE ELDERS OF ROME 
ON THE ONE HAND AND R. LAMALIEL, THE PRINCE, ON 
THE OTHER,—HoOw TO PREPARE WINE IN THE PossEssION 
OF A HEATHEN FOR ISRAELITES. : : ; { . 104 

111 


iv CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER V. 


: PAGE 
RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING WAGES AND LIBATION 
WINE.—EFFECTS OF SUCH WINE WHEN FALLING ON FRUIT 
OR MIXING WITH OTHER WINE.—UNDER WHAT CIRCUM- 
STANCES WINE May BE LEFT WITH A HEATHEN.—CON- 
DITIONS UNDER WHICH JEWISH WINE IS SOLD TO HEATH- 
ENS.—DETERMINATION OF QUANTITY OF LIBATION WINE 
MIXED WITH OTHER WINE.—How VESSELS OF HEATHEN 
ARE TO BE ALTERED TO MAKE THEM FIT FOR A JEWISH 

TABLE . : : ; . ; : ° ; ; Ae 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 


CHAPTER. I. 


“Misuna J. Three days before the festival of the heathen, it is for- 
bidden to have any business with them. In the future the Lord will take 
the Holy Scroll in hand, saying, “He who was occupied with it shall appear 
and receive his reward.” The kingdom of Rome will then enter first, etc. 
After Rome has departed, Persia enters, etc. We have constructed many 
bridges, conquered many great cities, we were engaged in many wars, all for 
the sake of Israel to enable them to study the law, etc. “Have we then 
accepted the Torah, and not fulfilled its commandments?” A Gentile 
who is occupied with the study of the law is likened to a High-priest, etc. 
“Lord of the Universe, has then Israel, who has accepted the Torah, 
observed it?” “ Men of ye nations may come and testify that Israel has 
observed the Torah. Nimrod may testify, etc. There are twelve hours in a 
day, three hours of which the Lord is occupied with the Torah, etc. There 
is no smiling by the Lord, since the temple was destroyed. But in the 
fourth three hours He teaches, etc. There is no Gehenna in the future. 
But the Lord will take out the sun from its sheath, etc. If not for the fear 
for government the stronger would swallow the weaker, etc. Concerning 
the explanation of (Amos, iii. 2) said R. Abuhuh, I will do it in the form of a 
parable. There was once a creditor of two persons, one a friend and the 
other an enemy of his. It is advisable for one not to pray singly the addi- 
tional benediction in the first three hours at the first day of new year. When 
one performs a meritorious act in this world it precedes him in the world to 
come. ‘“ Three days,” etc. Is such a long time needed? is this forbidden 
because a Jew must not interfere with the idols, or because “ Thou shalt not 
put a stone for the blind” ? The prohibition to do business with them 
refers only to a thing which can be kept in good order until the festival day. 
It is advisable for one to always arrange the praises of the Ominipotent first, 
and thereafter to recite the daily eighteen benedictions. The following are 
the festivals of the heathens: Kalends, Saturnalia, Kratsin, etc. Adam the 
first, on the first day of his creation, when he saw the sun set, cried: “ Woe 
is to me, the world is to be returned to chaos, etc.” Thirty-two battles the 
Romans fought with the Greeks, etc. Twenty-six years the Romans kept their 


Vv 


vi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


promise to Israel, and thereafter they failed. The twenty-six years are not 
counted. The world will continue for six thousand years, the first two 
thousand of which were a chaos (Tahu), etc. It happened with Antoninus 
(the Caesar of Rome), who said to Rabbi, etc. (See the whole legend, pp. 
16-18). Unklus b. Klenimus embraced Judaism, and the Caesar sent militia 
to take him, etc. (See the legend, pp. 18-19). There was still another festi- 
val in Rome which occurs once in seventy years, on which they would make 
a well man ride on a lame man, ete. . . : I-21 

MisHnaA JV, Ina city where the idol is TES § Sconenien is forbidden 
inside, but not outside. If, during an idol festival in the city, some 
stores were there decorated, one must not buy, etc. The following are for- 
bidden to be sold to the heathens; Fir-cones, etc. We have a tradition that 
the tract Aboda Zara of Abraham the patriarch contained four hundred chap- 
ters, etc. Where itis customary to sell small cattle to heathens it is lawful 
to do so, etc. One must not sell to them bears, lions, and all such things, by 
which the people can be injured, etc. I walked in the upper market of 
Ciporas, and I met one of the minim, named Jacob, of the village of Sac- 
hania. So taught Josa B. Southyra, etc. (See foot-note, p. 27.) The legend 
of Eliazer ben Durdaya (28). The leech hath two daughters (crying), 
“ Give, give,” i.e. minunism—and the government, which are never satisfied, 
etc. Raba sold an ass to an Israelite who was suspected of selling it to a 
heathen, etc. He who occupies himself with the Torah, but does not observe 
bestowing of favors, is similar to him who denies God. The Legend of 
Eliezer b. Sarta and Chanina b. Tradion when captured by government, 
p. 29, 30. How Chanina was burned together with the holy scrolls, and 
what became of his wife and daughter, p. 31, 32. The redeeming of latter 
by R. Mair (Baal Hanes), p. 33. Happy is he who conquers his evil spirit, 
as a heroic man, etc. It is advisable to divide one’s years into three parts: 
one-third for the study of Scripture, the second Mishna, and the third Tal- 
mud, etc. R.Agiba when he saw the wife of Tornus Rupers, he laughed and 
wept, etc. Houses must not be rented to the heathens in Palestine, etc. 
One must not rent his bath-house to a heathen, but how is it to a Samaritan? 
ete. 0. : ‘ A : k i é ; ; : ‘ 21-40 


CHAPTER II. 


Misuna J. Cattle must not be placed in the inns of the heathens. (See 
foot-note, p. 41.) “And the cows went straight forward,” etc. What does 
this expression mean? It reads (Jos. x. 13): “And the sun stood still, 
written in the book of Yasher.” What is the book of Yasher? One must 
not stay alone even with two women. If an Israelite while on the road, 
happened to be accompanied by a heathen, etc. One must not confine a 
heathen because she brought up a person to idolatry, etc. A city in which 
there is no Jewish physician, but a Samaritan and a heathen, the heathen 
shall circumcise and not the Samaritan. One may employ their (the 
heathens’) services for curing his personal property, etc. Ben Dama was 
bitten by a snake, Jacob come to heal him with the name of Jesus, but R. 
Ismael did not allow. With R. Johanan it is different, as he himself was an 
established physician. Medicines and other remedies for different sickness 
by different men and women, on pp. 50-53. The following things of the 


Ny aS 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. © vii 


heathens are prohibited, and the prohibition extends even to the deriving 
of any benefit therefrom—viz: wine, vinegar, etc. No benefit is to be 
derived from the dead. Samuel and Ablat, the latter who was a heathen, 
were sitting together, and cooked wine was brought for them, etc. Tv 
fermenting wine no uncovery applies. One must not pour water which 
has been uncovered, in the public streets, and also not water cattle with it. 
The sages forbid date-beer of the heathens, as a safeguard against inter- 
marriage. The sick heathens who become swollen, and whom uncovered 
water does not harm, surely ate reptiles, so that their bodies contain 
poison which prevent the harming effects of the snake-poison. A 
heathen pilgrim is prohibited only when on his way to the idol, ete. 
Enamelled vessels, no matter what color, are permissable. Fish oil made 
by a heathen specialist is permissable. Why did the sages forbid 
the cheese of Anugiki? Sweet are to me the words of thy friends 
(the sages who are explaining the law), more than the essence of the Torah. 
Compress your lips, one upon the other, and hasten not to propound ques- 
tion, ; : i , d J / 3 ; ; 41-65 
MisHna VY. The following are prohibited, but not from deriving benefit 
from them: Milk, etc. What is the reason for the prohibition of milk? etc. 
Concerning oil, Daniel has decreed the prohibition according to Rabh, etc. 
To everything which is not served on the table of noblemen to relish the 
bread, the prohibition of “cooked by a heathen” does not apply. All that 
may be eaten in a raw state, may also be eaten when cooked by a heathen. 
The sea-donkey is allowed, but not the sea-ox; and you remember this by 
the following mark: the unclean (on earth?) is clean, while the clean is 
unclean. We are to trust the wife of a scholar as we have trusted her 
husband. Meat, wine, blue wool that are to be forwarded through a 
heathen, require each two seals. The following things are allowed to eat, 
milk milked by a heathen in the presence of an Israelite, honey and honey- 
cake, etc. Fish entrails as well as fish-rye you may buy only of a specialist, 
etc. If the vender says, I have pickled the fish and know them to be clean, 
he is trusted. Praised be the Omnipotent, who puts this world in the hands 
of guardians! . , ; ; . j : : ‘ ; 65-81 


CHAPTER III. 


Misuna J. to VI. All images are prohibited, for they are worshipped 
at least once a year. The staff in the hand of the idol. The bird in its 
hand of the idol. Finally, the sphere is to indicate that it sacrifices itself 
for the whole globe. If one finds fragments of images, he is allowed to 
use them, etc. It is taught that a heathen can profane the idol of his 
fellow heathen as well as his own, while an Israelite cannot profane the idol 
of a heathen. If one finds vessels with the image of the sun, moon, etc., 
he must throw them into the salt lake. The human image and that of a 
nurse are, however, prohibited only when having respectively a measure in 
the hand and a son in the arms whom she is nursing. One may grind 
the images and scatter them to the wind, or sink them into the sea, etc. 
Peroklas, the son of a philosopher, asked once R. Gamaliel at Ako, who was 
then bathing in the bath of the goddess Aphrodite, etc. R. Gamaliel gave 
Peroklas an evasive answer; but I (Hama) say it was not evasive, etc., etc. 


viii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


The mountains and hills worshipped by heathens are allowed to use, 
but not the things, brought upon them, etc. Wherever you find a high 
mountain, an elevated hill, a leafy tree, there is surely an idol there. A 
town or place bearing the name of an idol should be renamed. If stones 
absolved fortuitously from a mountain rock, that was worshipped, is their 
use allowed or not? : : : 82-96 

Misuna VII. to XV. Ilia Soles situated. clove vn a worship-house of 
an idol crumbles down, its owner is prohibited from rebuilding it, etc. 
There are three kinds of houses. There are three kinds of stones. There 
are three kinds of groves, etc. What is a grove? A tree with an idol under 
it. R. Simion said: “ Any tree that is worshipped. It is not allowed to sit 
down in the shade of such a tree.” Under such a tree is allowed to sow 
herbs in the winter, but not in summer, etc. To derive any benefit of wood 
obtained from an idol-grove is prohibited. How is the idol worship of a 
tree profaned, etc.? ; : : : ; : : ; 96-103 


CHAPTER IV. 


Misuna J. to VI. Three stones near one another and beside the 
Merkules are prohibited. The son of the saints treads on them, should we 
abstain thereform? Who was this son, etc.? One is not liable for slaughter- 
ing a blemished animal to an idol, etc. Money, garments, utensils found 
on the head of an idol are allowed, etc. The use of a garden or bathing- 
place belonging to an idol is allowed when it is gratis, etc. It is common 
sense that that idol of an Israelite should be forbidden from the very 
beginning, etc. Whether or no food offered to an idol, if profaned, loses 
thereby its defilement? There was a pantry in the temple, where the 
Macabees heaped up the stones of the altar defiled by the Greeks. A 
heathen can profane his idol as well as that of his neighbor, etc. How is 
an idol to be profaned? If an Israelite erects a brick to worship it, but 
does not worship, and a heathen comes, and worships it, it is prohibited, 
etc. An idol anbandoned by its worshippers in time of peace is allowed. 
My respect for Rabh and Samuel is so great that I should readily fill my 
eyes with the ashes of their corpses; none the less, etc. An animal resting 
in the proximity of an idol becomes unallowable, etc. The animal 
obtained by the idol-worshippers in exchange for an idol is for- 
bidden ©. ; 103-119 

MISHNA VI. TO IX. If God i is disblenael with aot: wien, why does he 
not destroy the idols, etc.? If the heathens worshipped but things not need- 
ful to the world, He would surely annihilate them; but they worship the 
sun, moon, stars and the planets. How is it that so many cripples are 
cured by the idols in their temples? If one comes to defile himself, the 
door is opened to him, while when one comes to cleanse himself, he is 
supported. It is forbidden both to tread and to gather with an Israelite, 
who prepares the wine while he is unclean, etc. They further warned 
against contributing toward the conditions defiling the fruit in Palestine, 
etc. It once happened that an Israelite and a heathen jointly hired and 
worked a wine-press in the City of Nahardea, etc. A heathen once hap- 
pened to enter the house of a Jewish wine-seller, etc. R. Johanan b. Arza 
and R. Jose b. Nehorai were once sitting together indulging a little in 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. ix 


wine, when a man came in, etc. Does a heathen render the wine prohibited 
by pouring water into it? Whether it is allowed to hire a heathen for con- 
veying grapes to the wine-press of an Israelite, etc.? A heathen stand- 
ing near the wine reservoir renders the wine forbidden, provided he has 
a lien on it, etc. If an Israelite, who has cleansed the wine of a heathen, 
left it on the latter’s premises, etc. When and Israelite buys or rents a house 
in the courtyard of a heathen, etc. It once happened that Israelites bought 
of Sarsik, the viceroy, the grapes of a vineyard, etc. . ; : 119-134 


CHAPTER V. 


MisHna I. To V. The wages of a laborer hired by a heathen to work 
with him, wine for libation are prohibited. How is it when the heathen 
hires a Jewish laborer to prepare wine in general? Whether or no the use 
of the money obtained by a heathen from the sale of an idol is all for- 
bidden to an Israelite. Can a citizen-proselyte, a heathen settled down 
in the land of Israel, on having taking upon himself not to practice idol- 
worship only, etc. “‘ Jews in prospect such pleasures in your paradise? Do 
you really mean,” said the other, “that there are greater pleasures than 
this?” If offered wine he poured on grapes, etc. In the case when beer 
vinegar was intermixed with wine vinegar, or oaten yeast with wheat yeast, 
etc. The rule is: “a prohibited thing renders another one forbidden,” etc. 
It once happened that a mouse was found in a barrel of beer, and Rabh pro- 
hibited the beer. Wine known as being watched, is allowed when trans- 
ported from place to place by a heathen, etc. ‘‘ When an Israelite leaves his 
wine in the wagon,” etc. Jewish wine was once stored up in a house, 
where a heathen and an Israelite lived in the lower and upper floors, 
respectively, etc, An Israelite and a heathen were once at an inn sitting and 
drinking wine, etc. In the city of Sumbeditha thieves once intruded into a 
house, etc. When an army enters a town in time of peace etc. He who 
sells his wine to a heathen is allowed to use the money, etc. Rabh told the 
Jewish wine-dealers to have their heathen customers pay in advance, etc. 
Once an Israelite said to his neighbor: “ When I make up my mind to sell 
this field, I will sell it to you.” Later on he sold it to a third party, etc. 
An Israelite once said to his neighbor: “When I make up mind to sell 
this field, I will sell it to you for a hundred suz, etc. If the funnel was 
first used to measure through it into the heathens flask, etc. Devoted wine 
is prohibited, and renders unallowable even by a minimal quantity. If for- 
bidden wine falls into a reservoir, and simultaneously a pitcher of water, 
etc. This is the rule: ‘ When the two are of the same kind; a minimal 
quantity suffices, etc. For how long must the utensils remain glowing in 
fire, etc. “ A knife is cleansed even by grinding it.” 





My: 4 * 
Than PR A 
xe, % a0) + 


PS RRS 
Vata ai 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 





CHAPTER I. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS 
WITH HEATHENS ON THEIR FESTIVAL DAYS; WHICH FESTIVALS 
ARE CONSIDERED, AND WHAT REAL ESTATE MAY BE SOLD AND 
RENTED, AND AT WHAT PLACES, 


MISHNA /.: Three days before the festivals * of the heath- 
ens it is forbidden to have any business with them. One must 
not lend them anything (which can be useful to them) nor bor- 
row such from them. And the same is the case with cash 
money, even to pay or to receive payment is forbidden. R. 
Jehuda, however, maintains: To receive payment is allowed, 
because it isa displeasure to the payers. And he was answered: 
Although it is zow a displeasure, it pleases them, in the future. 

GEMARA: R. Hanina b, Papa, according to others, R. 
Simlai, lectured: In the future, the Holy One, blessed be He, 
will take the Holy Scroll in hand, saying: “‘He who was occu- 
pied with it shall appear and receive his reward.’’ The nations 
then at once will gather themselves and come motley crowded 
as it reads [Is. xliii. 9]: ‘‘ All the people were gathered to- 
gether.’’ The Holy One, blessed be He, however, tells them: 
*‘ Do not enter in such confusion, but let each nation with her 
scribes enter separately,’’ as it reads further on: ‘‘ Let the peo- 
ple t+ be assembled.’’ And by the term people kingdoms, are 
meant. [Can there be sucha thing as motley before the Holy 





* The term for festivals in the Mishna, is ‘‘ Atdehen” and Rabh and Samuel 
are discussing this term at some length. According to one it is Aidehen and means 
misfortune while to the other it is ‘‘ Zdihen,” and means ‘‘witnesses.” It is 
because the sages of the Mishna hesitate to name the holidays of the idolators with 
the term ‘‘ festivals.” We, however, deem it not necessary to translate this discussion, 
as it is unimportant. 

+ The term for people here, is Zea and by an analogy of expression it is 
inferred to mean kingdom. 


2 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


One, blessed be He? It means they themselves shall not come 
in confusion, so that they shall understand what will be said to 
them.] The kingdom of Rome will then enter first on account 
of its greatness. As concerning it [Dan. vii. 23]: ‘‘ And will 
devour all the earth, and will tread it down, and grind it up.”’ 
And R. Jochanan said: Rome is thereby meant, whose fame is 
respected throughout the whole world. But whence do we 
know that the more distinguished come first to judgment? It 
is as R. Hisda said (Rosh Hashana, p. 13). The Holy One, 
blessed be He, questioned her: ‘* What was your occupation in 
the world?’’ To which she answered: ‘‘ Lord of the Universe! 
we have established many markets, we have constructed many 
bath-houses, we have multiplied in great mass gold and silver, 
and all this was done for the sake of Israel, to enable #hem to 
study the Law.’’ The Lord’s answer will be: It is foolish of 
ye to state that all you have done was for the sake of Israel, 
while in reality it was but for yourselves. The construction of 
markets was for the purpose of prostitution. The establishment 
of bath-houses was for your own pleasure, and as to gold and 
silver, it is mine, as [ Hos. ii. 8]: ‘‘ Mine is the silver, mine,’’ 
etc. But, are there, then, among ye those who have studied 
the Law? They went out in despair. 

After Rome has departed, Persia enters. Because she is 
considered second to Rome, as [Dan. vii. 5]: ‘‘ And behold, 
there was another, a second beast, like a bear.’’ To which R. 
Joseph taught: Thereby, Persia is meant, the people of which 
are fleshy like bears, eat and drink like bears, are overgrown 
with hair, and have no rest, like bears. And to the question of 
the Holy One, ‘‘ What was your occupation?’’ They will an- 
swer: We have constructed many bridges, conquered many 
great cities, we were engaged in many wars, all for the sake of 
Israel to enable them to study the Law. The reply to which 
will be: ‘‘ All that was done by you was for your own sake.’’ 
Bridges, for the collection of duties. Great cities, to establish 
angaria. And as to wars, I have conducted them. As it reads 
[Ex. xv. 3]: ‘‘ The Eternal is the lord of war.’’ But are there 
among ye those who have studied this Law? And they also 
went out in despair. [But, why did Persia enter, after seeing 
that Rome was disappointed? They thought: We may have 
more chance than Rome, as the latter has destroyed the holy 
Temple, while we have rebuilt it.] And a similar answer will 
be given to the other nations. But why should the other 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 3 


nations enter after seeing the disappointment of the first two? 
They thought: The first two made slaves of Israel, which was 
not the case with them. But, if so, why should Rome and 
Persia: be more honored than the other nations? They are dis- 
tinguished by the permanence of their kingdoms, which will 
exist until the time of Messia. Finally they will say before 
Him: Lord of the Universe, didst thou give us the Torah and 
we did not accept it? But how could they say so? Is it not 
written [Deut. xxxiii. 2]: ‘‘ The Lord came from Sinai, and 
rose up from Sa’ir unto them: he shone forth from Mount 
Paran.’’ And it also reads [Habak. iii. 3]: ‘‘ (When) God from 
Theman came, and the Holy One from Mount Paran.’’ And 
to the question: What has the Law to do in Sa’ir and Paran? 
Said R. Jochanan: From this it is inferred that the Lord has 
presented his Torah to every nation, but it was not accepted 
until it came to Israel. Therefore, it is supposed that they said 
to Him: ‘‘ Have we then accepted the Torah, and not fulfilled 
its commandments?’’ [But what answer is this. Could they 
not be accused because they have not accepted it?] They said 
thus: Lord of the Universe, hast thou inclined the mountain 
toward us as thou didst toward the children of Israel? (See 
Sabbath, p. 167, par. Ex. xix., etc.) To this the answer will 
come: ‘* Let the former things shew us.’’ [Isaiah xliii. 9] The 
Holy One, blessed be He, will say to them: ‘‘ The seven com- 
mandments which were given to the descendants of Noah, have 
ye observed them?’’ And whence do we know that they have 
not? From that which R. Joseph taught. It reads [Hab. 
iii. 6]: ‘‘ He stood forward, and made the earth tremble; he 
looked, and dispersed nations.’’ What did He see? That the 
seven commandments accepted by the descendants of Noah, 
were not observed. And therefore He absolved the nations of 
them. Absolved. Should then the sinner be benefited? Said 
Mar b. Rabbina: It means that even should they absolve them, 
they would not be rewarded. Is that so? Did not R. Mair 
say: ‘‘ Whence do we know that even a Gentile who is occupied 
with the study of the Law, is likened to a high-priest from 
[Levit. xviii. 5] ‘‘ Which if a man do, shall live on it,’’ where it 
does not specify priest, Levite, or Israelite, but states in general 
if a man, whence it may be inferred that a Gentile, too, who oc- 
cupies himself with the study of the Law is equal to a high- 
priest.”’ It means that they will not be rewarded for the 
observance equally with those who observe in accordance 


4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


with the commandments. As R. Hanina said: The reward for 

him who observes that which he is commanded, is greater than — 
to him who observes same without being commanded. The 

nations will then exclaim: ‘‘ Lord of the Universe, has then 

Israel, who has accepted the Torah, observed it?’’ And to the 

answer of the Holy One: “‘I testify that he did,’’ they exclaim: 

** Lord of the Universe, is then a father fit to be a witness in 

the case of his son? Is not Israel called the son of the Eternal’’ © 
[Ex. iv. 22] ‘* My son, my first-born, is Israel.’’ He will then 
say: ‘‘ Let heaven and earth testify that the Torah was observed 
by Israel.’’ They, however, object in saying that heaven and 
earth are interested in this case, and therefore are not fit to be 
witnesses—viz: | Jer. xxxiii. 25]: ‘““If my covenant be not... 
the appointment with heaven and earth, would not be estab- 
lished.’’* And Resh-Lakish said: It reads [Gen. i. 31]: “‘ And 
it was evening, and it was morning,’’ and this justifies the infer- 
ence that the Lord made a stipulation with all that had been 
created in the six days to the effect that if Israel will accept the 
Torah, well and good, but ‘if not I will return all of you to chaos 
and ruin. Then the Holy One, blessed be He, will say: “‘ Men 
of ye nations may come and testify that Israel has observed the 
Torah. Nimrod may testify that Abraham has not worshipped 
idols. Laban may testify that Jacob was not suspected of rob- 
bery. The wife of Potiphar may testify that Joseph was not 
suspicious of sin. Nebuchadnezzar may testify that Chananyah, 
Mishaél and Azaryah had not bowed themselves to the image; 
Darius of Daniel, that he had not abolished prayer; Eliphaz 
the Themanite, and Bildad the Shuchite, and Zophar the Na’ama-. 
thite may say of all Israel that they have observed all the Laws.”’ 
They will then exclaim: ‘‘ Lord of the Universe, give it to us 
now, and we will observe it.’’ To which they will be answered: 
‘* He who has prepared on the Eve of Sabbath, for the Sabbath, 
will have what to eat. But he who has not prepared, what then 
will he have to eat on Sabbath? However, I have one easy, 
meritorious act, it is the Suksa, go and perform it. [Why is 
it called easy? Because it requires no expense.] Everyone of 
them, will then prepare a Sukka on his roof, but as soon as the 
sun heats it, they abandon it, and go away. But did not Rabha 
say that he who is afflicted by performing the command of 
Sukka, is free from this obligation? Yea, but not to reject. 





* Leeser’s translation does not correspond. 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 5 


The Holy One, blessed be He, will then smile uponthem. Said 
R. Itzchak: ‘‘ There is no smiling with the Holy One, but on 
that day.”’ 

There are others who taught the saying of R. Itzchak in the 
following connection: R. Jose said: In the future heathens will 
come to convert themselves with the Zephz/in on their heads 
and arms, ¢chitches on their dresses, mazuzas on their doors. 
But, as soon as they will see the war of Gog and Magog, and 
will question them: ‘‘ With whom do you want to fight?’’ 
Whereto the answer will be: With the Lord and his Messiah 
[as it reads [Psalm ii. 2]: ‘‘ Against the Lord and his an- 
ointed’’], each of the nations will remove the above, and go 
away; and the Holy One will smile upon them. It is here 
that R. Itzchak said: There is no smiling with the Lord, but 
on that day. But did not R. Jehudah say in the name of 
Rabh: There are twelve hours in a day, three hours of which 
the Holy One, blessed be He, is occupied with the Torah. The 
next three hours, He judges the whole world, and seeing that it 
is liable to be destroyed, He rises from the chair of judgment 
and sits down on the chair of mercy. The third three hours, 
He supports the whole world with food, from the very largest 
creature to the smallest one. And the last three hours, He 
plays* with the /evzathan, as it reads [Psalm civ. 26]: ‘‘ Levi- 
athan, whom thou hast made to sport therein.’* Said R. Nach- 
man b. Itzchak: ‘* With His creatures He smiles, but not upon 
them.’’ R. Aha said to R. Nachman: There is no smiling by 
the Holy One, since the Temple was destroyed. As it reads 
(Is. xlii. 14].¢ But in the fourth three hours, he teaches the 
Torah to the school-children. As it reads [ibid. xxviii. 9]: 
‘‘ Whom shall he teach knowledge? And whom shall he give to 
understand doctrine? (to) those that are weaned from the milk, 
(to) those that are taken from the breasts.’’ And what does He 
do in the night-time? If you wish, it may be said that He does 
the same as in the day-time. And if you wish, it may be said 
that He rides upon His light cloud and moves in all directions 
upon 18,000 worlds. As it reads [Psalm Ixviii. 18]: “‘ The 
chariots of God are two myriads; thousands of angels (follow 
him).’’ And if you wish, it may be said that He is sitting and 





* The term for this word is sh’ok, which means both sport and smile, hence the 
objection. : 

+ The translation of this verse does not correspond at all, it is therefore of no 
use to quote it. 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


listening to the song of the angels, as [ibid. xlii. 9]: “‘ And in 
the night his song shall be with me.”’ 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Samuel: It reads [Hab. 
i. 14]: ‘‘ And (why) makest thou men as the fishes of the sea, 
as the creeping things, that have no ruler over them?’’ Why ~ 
are men compared with fish of the sea? To wit: even as the 
fish die as soon as they are taken on land, so do men die when 
they separate themselves from the law of the Torah. Another 
explanation: as fish die from the strong heat of the sun, so also 
do men. If you wish it may be said in this world, and this would 
be in accordance with R. Hanina, who said: ‘‘ Everything is de- 
creed by heaven, except cold’’ (see Middle Gate, p. 285). And 
if you wish it may be said, in the world to come, and this is in 
accordance with Resh Lakish, who says: There is no Gehenna 
in the future. But the Holy One, blessed be He, will take out 
the sun from its sheath. The wicked will be punished with its 
heat, and the upright be cured by it. As it reads [ Malachi, iii. 
19|: ‘‘ For, behold, the day is coming, which shall burn as an 
oven; and all the presumptuous, yea, and all who practice 
wickedness shall be stubble: and the day that is coming shall 
see them on fire, . . . who will not leave them root or bough. 
(20) But there shall rise unto you that fear my name, the sun 
of righteousness with healing in his wings.’’ Furthermore, the 
latter will have pleasure and become fat from it, as the end 
reads, ‘‘.And ye will go forth, and grown fat as calves of the 
stall.’’ 

There is another explanation, ‘‘ as fish in the sea,’’ the larger 
one swallows the smaller, so also is it with men, since if not for 
the fear for government the stronger would swallow the weaker. 
And this is what a Mishna states: ‘‘ Pray for the peace of the 
government,’’ etc. (See Aboth, p. 72.) 

R. Hinna b. Papa propounded a contradiction to the follow- . 
ing [Job, xxxvii. 23]: ‘‘ The Almighty we do not find him out 
excellent in power.’’* And [Ex. xv. 6]: “‘ Thy right hand, 
O Lord, is become glorious in power.’’ And also [Psalm cxlvii. 
5]: ‘‘ Great is our Lord, and abundant in power’’? This pre- 
sents no difficulty: At the time of judgment, He does not use 
his might; but in time of war, He uses it. 

Rabha said [Job, xxx. 24]: ‘‘ But doth not a man stretch out 





* Leeser’s translation, according to the sense, does not correspond with the 
Talmud who takes it literally. 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 7 


his hand among ruzus ? or doth one not cry out therefrom when 
he meeteth his downfall?’’ So said the Holy One, blessed be 
He, to Israel. By judging Israel, I do not treat them in the 
same manner as I do heathens, which is mentioned in [Is. xxi. 
32|: ‘‘ Overthrown, overthrown. ... I will render it.’”’ But ° 
I punished them as the picking of a chicken. And according to 
others: ‘‘ Even if Israel do but small good deeds, as the picking 
of chickens in the dunghill, I will combine them into one large 
sum.’’ Another explanation: “‘I help them because of their 
praying tome. And this is what R. Aba said: It reads [Hos. 
vii. 13]: ‘‘ Though I desired to redeem them, they yet spoke 
lies against me.’’ J/.e., I thought: I will redeem them by loss 
of money in this world, for the purpose of rewarding them in 
the world to come. And they told lies about me. And the 
same said R. Papa in the name of Rabha: The inferring it from 
[ibid., ibid. 15]. 

R. Abuhuh introduced R. Safra to the mzuzm (who were ap- 
pointed by the government to collect duties) as a great man. 
And they freed him from duty for thirteen years. Once they 
met him and asked him to explain the following [Amos, iii. 2]: 
‘* Only you have I loved out of all the families of the earth: 
therefore will I visit upon you all your iniquities.’’ If one is 
in bad humor, will he let it out on his friend? He kept silent, 
as he was ignorant of the answer. And they inflicted upon him. 
R. Abuhuh then met them, to ask for the reason. And they 
answered: You introduced him as a great man, while he does 
not even know the explanation of a passage. Rejoined he: ‘‘ I 
told you he was a scholar, but did I say that he was a master in 
the study of the Bible?’’ And to their question: Why are you 
familiar with it? He answered: “‘ Because we have to discuss 
with you frequently, we give our attention to it.’’ They say: 
It is for you, then, to explain the above-mentioned passage. 
And he answered thus: I will do it in the form of a parable. 
There was once a creditor of two persons, one a friend, and the 
other an enemy of his. From his friend, he demands to be paid 
in small sums, while from his enemy he demands the whole debt 
at once. (And the same is the case with Israel: He clears them 
of all their iniquities by small punishments in this world, so that 
they shall not have to suffer in the world to come.) 

The rabbis taught: The Lord becomes angry every day, but 
only during one instant, which is the fifty-three thousand 
eight hundred and forty-eighth part in one hour; and there is 


‘ 


8 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


no creature in the world who is able to guess this moment, ex- 
cept Bil’am, about whom it reads [Numb. xxiv. 16]: “‘ Knoweth 
the knowledge of the Most High.’’ Which means that he knew 
how to guess the second in which the Lord becomes angered. 
(See Sanhedrin, p 339.) 

R. Joseph said: It is advisable for one not to pray singly the 
additional benediction in the first three hours at the first day of 
new year, for, the heavenly judgment takes place at that time, 
and because of his praying attention may be given to his deeds, 
and he may get an unfavorable decree. But if so, one should 
not do it even with the congregation together? With the con- 
gregation is different, as the attention is given to their deeds in 
average. But was it not said above that in the first three hours 
the Lord is engaged in the Law? Yea, however, by the Torah, 
in which truth is mentioned [ Prov. xxiii. 23]: ‘‘ Buy the truth,”’ 
judgment cannot be modified. But concerning judgment, truth © 
is not mentioned, and therefore the Holy One, blessed be He, 
modifies it. : 

R. Joshua b. Levi said [ Deut. vii. 11]: ‘‘ Which I command 
thee this day, to do them,’’ means ¢@o do it to-day, but not to be 
rewarded for it to-day. Hesaid again: “‘ All the performance of 
the commandments which Israel observed in this world, will 
come and testify for them inthe worldtocome.’’ He said again: 
The crime of the golden calf was committed only to give a chance 
to the repenter. As it reads [ibid. v. 26]: ‘* Who would grant 
that this their heart might remain in them to fear meat all times.’’ 
(Hence, they were not fit to commit acrime.) Similarly said Jo- 
hanan in the name of R. Simeon b. Jo’hai: David was not fit to 
commit the crime with Bath Shaba, as concerning him it reads 
(Psalm, cviii. 22]: ‘“ My heart is deeply wounded within me.’’ 
And also Israel was not fit for the above crime, for the reason said 
above. And why was it committed? For the benefit of sinners. 
If it happens to be an individual, it may be said to him: Re- 
pent, as the individual David did. And if it happens to bea 
congregation, they also may be told to repent, as the congrega- 
tion of the desert did. And this is what R. Samuel b. Nach- 
man inthe name of Jonathan said: It reads [II Sam. xxiii. 1]: 
‘‘ And thus saith the man who was raised up on high’’ (the 
term in Hebrew for high is o/, which means also yoke), and is to 
be interpreted thus: The man who had raised the yoke of re- 
pentance. The same said again in the name of the same author- 
ity: When one performs a meritorious act in this world, it pre- 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 9 


cedes him in the world to come. As it reads [Is. lviii. 8]: 
‘ And before thee shall go thy righteousness, the glory of the 
Lord shall be thy reward.’’ And the same is the case with him 
who commits a crime in this world, that it clings to him and 
goes before him on the day of judgment. As it reads [Job, 
vi. 18].* 

The rabbis taught: Concerning the above-cited verse [ Deut. 
v. 26|: Moses said to Israel: Ye are ungrateful my children, as 
at the time, the Holy One, blessed be He, said to you: “‘ Who 
would grant,’’ etc., ye ought to say: Thou, Lord, grant it to 
us. Your ungratefulness is also marked from [Numb. xxi. 5]: 
‘‘ And our soul loathed this miserable bread.’’ Ye are also chil: 
dren of an ungrateful, as it reads [Gen. iii. 12]: “‘ The woman 
whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree,’’ etc. 
Moses, however, hinted this to Israel only after the forty years 
in which he led them in the desert. As in respect of that time 
it reads [Deut. xxix. 3]: ‘‘ And yet the Lord gave you nota 
heart to perceive,’’ etc. Said Rabha: “‘ Infer from this that one 
cannot know the real mind of his master, until the elapse of 
forty years.’’ 

R. Johanan said in the name of R. B’naha: It reads [lIs. 
xxxii. 20|: ‘‘ Happy are ye that sow beside all waters, freely 
sending forth the feet of the ox and the ass.’’ Happy is Israel 
at the time when he is occupied with the Torah and with be- 
stowing of favors; as his evil spirit is then transferred into his . 
hands, and not vice versa. And this is inferred from the just- 
cited verse, “‘ that sow,’’ which means charity, as [| Hos. x. 12], 
And ‘‘ by water’’ it means the Torah, as in [Is. lv. 1] means 
the Torah. And “‘ by freely sending forth,’’ etc., is meant, 
what the disciple of Elijah taught. One should always consider 
himself in his relation to the laws of the Torah, as an ox to its 
yoke, and an ass to its load. 

‘‘ Three days,’’ etc. Is such along time needed? Does not 
a Mishna state: At four periods in the year, he who sells a cow 
to his neighbor must notify him thus: I have sold her mother 
or her daughter to be slaughtered. (It is biblically forbidden to 
slaughter the mother and her child on one and the same day), 
and they are: the Eve of the second festival of Tabernacles, the 
Eve of the first day of Passover, the Eve of Pentecost, and the 
Eve of New Year. According to R. Jose the Galilean: Also 





* We do not quote the passage, as the translation of it does not at all correspond. 


; 


10 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the Eve of the day of Atonement in Galilee. (Hence, we see 
that only one day is sufficient.) Where eating is treated of, 
one day suffices, but where sacrificing is treated of three days 
are needed. Are, then, three days sufficient for sacrificing? Is 
there not arule that thirty days before Passover are needed to 
study the laws of this festival? Concerning our sacrifices, which 
even a blemish in the eye-lash makes invalid, thirty days are 
needed for studying the Law. But concerning the heathens, 
that only a missing limb of an animal makes it invalid. But not 
a blemish, three days suffice. 

The schoolman propounded a question as to whether or not 
the statement of the Mishna, “‘ three days,’’ include the festival 
day also? Comeand hear. R. Ismael said: ‘‘ Three days before 
and three days after their festivals.’’ Now, should it mean to 
include the festival day, would, then, R. Ismael count z¢ twice, 
to the first and to the last days? This is no objection, as the 
number three, mentioned last, may be used merely because of 
the first. Come and hear the following: R. Tachlipha b. Ab- 
dimi in the name of Samuel said: If their festival occurs in the 
middle of the week, it is forbidden to do business with them the 
whole week. Now, if that day were included, one day of the 
week would be allowed. There is no question, according to R. 
Ismael, as he certainly excludes that day, but how is it the 
question is according to the rabbis? Come and hear: The fol- 
lowing are the festivals of the heathens: alends, Saturnalia and 
kratsim. And R. Hanin b. Rabha said: Aadends occurs eight 
days after the solstice, and the Saturnalia eight days before. 
Now, if the festivals were included, it would be said ten days? 
Perhaps the Tana counts the whole festival of alends for one 
day. Said R. Ashi: From the expression of the Mishna, “‘ be- 
fore,’’ it may be inferred that it means to exclude the day in 
question. For if not, it would state three days of their festivals, 
etc. Infer from this that so it is. 

The schoolmen propounded a question: Is this forbidden be- 
cause a Jew must not interfere with the idols, or because of the 
commandment, ‘‘ Thou shalt not put a stone for the blind’’ ? 
And the difference is in whether or not the heathen has his own 
animal for sacrificing. If because of interfering, it is forbidden, 
but if because of the latter, it is not, as he has hisown. But 
even if he has his own, the above negative rests upon him, 
as R. Nathan states in a Boraitha: Whence do we know that 
one must zof serve a goblet of wine to a Nazerite nor a member 


ey ee SE eee 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). II 


of a live animal to a descendant of Noah? from [Levit. xix. 14], 
‘‘Nor put a stumbling-block before the blind.’’ We see then, 
that though these two would each take the forbidden even if not 
offered, nevertheless he who serves therewith commits a trans- 
gression, it speaks of a case when the two, giver and receiver, ° 
are separated, by e.L., a river, so that if not served he could not 
take it himself; and the word serve instead of give seems to cor- 
roborate this view. The schoolman propounded another ques- 
tion: How is it if he had done business with him in the pro- 
hibited days? According to R. Johanan: The benefit which 
he derived from the business is forbidden, and according to 
Resh Lakish, it is not. Resh Lakish objected to R. Jochanan 
from the following: In the festivals of heathens, if one had 
business: with them, the derived benefit is forbidden. We 
see that thus the festivals, as such are meant, but not the 
time before. R. Jochanan, however, maintains: That in the 
expression “‘ festivals’’ the days before are also meant. 

There is a Boraitha in accordance with Resh Lakish: The 
prohibition to do business with them refers only to a thing which 
can be kept in good order until the festival day, but not other- 
wise. And even concerning the former, if it was already done, 
the benefit is allowed. 

R. Zabid taught in a Boraitha of R. Osia: A thing which 
cannot be kept in good order may be sold to, but not bought 
from, them. There was a minn who, in his festival, sent a new 
dinar to R. Jehudah the second. Resh Lakish was then at the 
latter's house, and Jehudah consulted him as to the acceptance 
of it. If he accepted he would transgress the rule of interfer- 
ing, while his refusal would cause animosity. Said Resh Lakish 
to him: Accept, and throw it away in the presence of the donor. 
To which R. Jehudah rejoined: Then I will cause still more 
animosity. Rejoined Resh Lakish: I mean that you should 
throw it in such a manner that he should think it was done un- 
intentionally. 

‘‘ To lend them or to borrow.’’ The prohibition to lend them 
is correct, because it pleases them. But why is it forbidden to 
receive payment from them; does it not diminish their property? 
Said Abai: If it were permitted to receive from them, one would 
be led also to lend them. Rabha, however, maintains: Both 
are prohibited only because of interfering. 

‘ Because it is a displeasure.’’ Does not R. Jehudah hold 
the view: That it pleases him in the future. We have heard 


12 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


him say elsewhere that he upholds such a theory concerning 
Jewish festivals? Said R. Na’hman b. Itzchak: Leave alone 
the Halakhas of minor festivals, as they are allowed only upon 
the basis of ‘‘it pleases him in the future, although it is a dis- 
pleasure to him while performing it.’’ Rabbina, however, main- 
tains: A heathen is always displeased at a payment. Our Mishna 
is not in accordance with R. Joshua b. Karcha of the following 
Boraitha, who said: If the lender had a document, he must not 
receive payment at that day. But if it was a verbal loan, he 
may, as itis a rescue. (Here is repeated from the First Gate, 
229 par., ‘‘ R., Jehudah says,’’ to p. 30 next par.) * 

MISHNA //.: R. Ismael said: Three days before and three 
days after it is prohibited. The sages, however, say: Before 
the festivals, but not after them. 

GEMARA: What new views do the sages of this Mishna 
advance. Was same not said by the first Tana of the first 
Mishna? They differ in what was said by Samuel: ‘‘ In exile, the 
prohibition refers to the day of the festival only.’’ The first 
Tana upholds the theory of Samuel, which the sages of the lat- 
ter Mishna do not. It may also be said that they differ in that 
which was said by Na’hum the Modaite. The prohibition is 
imposed only upon one day before their festival. And in this 
case, the Tana of the first Mishna does not agree with him, 
while the sages of the second do. There is a Boraitha which 
states that as regards the decision of Na’hum the Modaite, it 
was said: It is better that such should be dropped and not re- 
peated. There is another Boraitha; Na’hum the Modaite said: 
An old male horse may be sold to them in case of war. And 
he was also answered: Such may be dropped, etc. And there 
is another Boraitha: That the same declared a Halakha concern- 
ing tithe, seeds and herbs, and was also answered: It may be 
dropped, etc. Said R. Aha b. Minumi to Abai: Is it right that 
everything declared by so great a man who comes into our coun- 
try be annulled by mere exclamation such as above? And he 
answered: There is one thing of the following Boraitha, on 
which we act according to his decision—namely, Na’hum the 
Modaite says: One may pray for his necessities the benediction 
of, ‘‘ He listens to prayer.’’ Rejoined R. Aba: Leave alone 
this Halakha which relies not upon Na’hum the Modaite only, 





* In text many things on which the Halakha prevails according to R. Jehoshua 
b. Kar’ha are gathered, though they do not belong to this tract at all; and as all of 
them are mentioned, each in its proper place, they are omitted here. 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 13 


but upon the discussion of great men in the following Boraitha: 
R. Eliezar said: One should beg for his necessities first, and 
thereafter he shall recite the daily benediction. As [Psalms, 
cii. 1]: ‘‘ A prayer of the afflicted, when he is overwhelmed, 
and poureth out before the Lord his complaint.’’* R. Joshua, 
however, maintains: One has to recite his benediction previ- 
ously, and thereafter pray for his necessities. As [Psalms, cxlii. 
2|: “‘ [poured out my shzcho before him, I relate before him my 
trouble.’’ (Hence, the trouble is related after the benediction.) 

Let us see: The passages do not correspond with either of 
them ; hence, there must be some other reason. Wherein, then, 
is their point of difference? In that which was lectured upon 
by R. Simlai: It is advisable for one to always arrange the 
praises of the Omnipotent first, and thereafter to recite the daily 
eighteen benedictions. And this can be inferred from Moses, 
our master [Deut. iii. 24]: ‘“ Thou hast begun to show,”’ etc., 
and thereafter (25): ‘‘ Let me go over, I pray thee.’’ R. Joshua 
maintains: We may learn it from Moses, but R. Eliezar holds 
that we cannot compare ourselves to Moses, and must not dare 
to do like him. The sages, however, maintain differently from 
both: As according to them, one may pray for his necessities in 
the benediction of, ‘‘ He listens to prayer.’’ Said R. Jehudah 
b. R. Samuel b. Shilath in the name of Rabh: Although it was 
decided that one may pray for his necessities in the benediction 
of ‘‘ listen to prayer,’’ yet if he understands how to express his 
desire at the end of each benediction (conjoined in the daily 
eighteen benedictions), he may do so. 

MISHNA ///.: The following are the festivals of the heath- 
ens: Kalends, Saturnalia, kratsin. The accession of their kings 
upon the throne, their birthday, and the day of their death. So 
R. Mair. The sages, however, maintain that only such a death 
on which burning (dresses) is used, is conjoined with worship- 
ping the idols. But in such on which it is not used, there is no 
idolatry. All, however, agree concerning the following days: 
That of shaving his beard and hair, that in which he lauds, that 
on which he was released from prison, and that on which is cele- 
brated a marriage of his son that the prohibition concerns only 
one day, and the only one man engaged in this affair. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: Adam the first, when he saw 





* The word complaint is termed by shzcho, which means “‘ prior” according to 
the Talmud concerning Isaac in [Gen. xxiv. 63] where the same term is used. 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


that each day of the week became shortened, cried: Woe is to 
me, the world becomes dark to me because of my sin, and it 
seems to be returned to chaos and ruin. And this is my death 
which was decreed by heaven. He arose and fasted and prayed 
eight days. Thereafter, when he lived to see the solstice of the 
month of Zadzt, when the days become longer, he understood 
that such is the cycle of the world, and therefore established 
eight holidays. The next year, he also proclaimed the eight 
days on which he had fasted as holidays. He has established 
them to laud heaven; his descendants, however, made them 
holidays for the idols. 

The rabbis taught: Adam the first, on the first day of his 
creation, when he saw the sun set, cried: Woe is to me, the 
world is to be returned to chaos, because of my sin, etc. He 
wept all night, and Eve did the same opposite him. However, 
when the morning star appeared, he understood that such was 
the order of the world. He arose and sacrificed an ox, whose 
horns were like its hoofs. 

R. Mathna questioned: Are the small towns under the do- 
minion of Rome and near to the capital, prohibited, at the time 
Rome celebrates its kalends, or not? According to R. Jehoshua 
b. Levi, the festival Aalandes is forbidden to everyone. And 
according to R. Johanan, it is forbidden to interfere with those 
who worship her only. There is a Boraitha in accordance with 
R. Johanan as follows: Although it was said that if Rome estab- 
lished a kalandes, and all the near cities which are under her 
dominion supported her, the prohibition of interfering concerns 
only its worshippers. On Saturnalia, kratsin, the day of the 
throne and the day in which he ascends to reign, only one day 
before, interfering is prohibited; but not the day after. During 
the celebration of the son’s marriage the interfering is forbidden 
to this man, and on that day only. Said R. Ashi: The state- 
ment of R. Johanan is also hinted at in our Mishna by the expres- 
sion ‘‘ and that man,’’ which excludes those who are under his 
dominion. (Here is repeated from Aboth, p. 94,9 . R. 
Simeon b. Eliezar said the whole par.; here, however, it is 
said in the name of R. Ismael. (The Gemara adds): It is there- 
fore decided that if a heathen invites one during thirty days 
from his son’s wedding, the invitation being special to the wed- 
ding, or anonymous, it is considered a wedding day, and the in- 
terfering is not allowed. At the elapse of thirty days, if the 
invitation was specific of the wedding, it is so considered; and 











TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 15 


if anonymous, it is not. Until what time is it considered wed- 
ding time in the case of a special invitation? Said R. Papa: 
Twelve months. And previous to the wedding, at what time’ 
is to be considered? From the time when they put the barley 
in the pestle for preparing beer. 

‘* Kratsin.’’ What festival is this? Said R. Jehudah in the 
name of Samuel: It is the day on which Rome has established 
her kingdom. But is there not a Boraitha: Kvratszz and the day 
on which Rome has established her kingdom? (Hence kratsin 
must be something else.) Said R. Joseph: Rome has estab- 
lished her kingdom twice. Once in the days of the Queen 
Cleopatra and the second time in the day of the Greeks. As 
R. Dimi told when he came from Palestine: Thirty-two battles 
the Romans fought with the Greeks, and could not conquer 
them until they had conjoined the Israelites with them, under the 
stipulation that if the kings were of one nation, the great officers - 
of the government should be taken from the others. And then 
the Romans sent a message to the Greeks: Until now we have 
tried to conquer you by battles, but now we will try to do it by 
a discussion. We may ask you, if one likes to conjoin a pearl 
with a diamond, which of them shall be the basis? And they 
answered: The pearl to the diamond. A diamond and an onyx? 
The diamond as a basis, was the answer. An onyx and the 
Holy Scrolls? The onyx to the Holy Scrolls, was the answer. 
Then they sent tothem: ‘‘ Now, the Holy Scrolls with the Israel- 
ites are with us.’’ (And the Greeks were conquered.) Twenty- 
six years the Romans kept their promise to Israel, and thereafter 
they failed, and took the Israelites under their dominion. 
Whence do we know that they were true to their promise 
twenty-six years? From what was said by R. Ka’hana. When 
R. Ismael b. Jose was sick, it was sent to him that he should 
recite a few things which he related in the name of his father. 
And his answer was this: A hundred and eighty years before 
the Temple was destroyed, Rome had thrust her dominion upon 
Israel. Eighty years before the destruction, it was decreed by 
the sages that the land of the nations outside of Palestine should 
be subject to defilement. Forty years before, the Sanhedrin 
were exiled from their place and settled in shops. (Here is re- 
peated from Sanhedrin, p. 121, concerning the establishment of 
fine.) The text says 180 years, and not more? Does not a 
Boraitha state in the name of R. Jose the great: Palestine was 
under the dominion of Persia 430 years; under the Greek, 180 


16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


years; the house of the Makabaius reigned 103 years and the 


house of Herod reigned likewise 103 years. Now, according to 
this chronology there will be 206 years for the dominion of 
Rome over Israel.* Therefore, we must say that the 26 years 
in which they were true to their promise are not counted under 
their dominion. There is a Tosephtha: The disciples of Elijah 
taught: The world will continue for six thousand years, the first 
two thousand of which were a chaos (Zaz), the second two 
thousand were of Torah, and the third two thousand are the 
days of the Messiah, and because of our sins many years of 
these have elapsed, and still he has not come.t Let us see 
from what time,the two thousand of Torah are reckoned. Shall 
we assume it to be the time when the Torah was given to Israel? 
Two thousand years have not elapsed as yet since.t We must 
therefore say that it means the time mentioned in [Gen. xii. 5]: 
“* And the persons that they had obtained in Charan.”’ And it 


is known by tradition that Abraham was then fifty-two years of 


age. And from his fifty-second year until the Torah was given, 
448 years elapsed, and that number will complete the number 
of 2,000 which were less at the time the Tana taught about the 
2,000 years of wisdom.§ 

‘* The accession to the throne.’’ Whoseaccession? If it means 
the king’s, how should the following Boraitha be understood? 
““ The ascending to the throne, and the day on which they select 
the king,’’ which seems to be one and the same. We must say, 
therefore, that by accession that of the king’ssovismeant. And 
the objection that it was not customary in Rome the son should 
inherit the throne, may be thus meant: That upon the request of 
the king, they were now to affiliate it tothe son.. As it happened 
with Antoninus (the Cesar of Rome), who said to Rabbi: I 
would like that Asurius, my son, should reign after me, and also 
that Tiberius should be free from duty. But I am aware that if 
I will ask my people to do me one favor, they will, but not two. 


’ 





* We do not quite understand how to make out 206 years according to this 
account. Rashi’s explanation does not suffice, and all other commentators keep 
silent. The Gamara itself was in doubt, concerning this account, as R. Papa 
said in text. We have, however, omitted it, leaving the whole affair to the historian. 

+ There are a few lines repeated here from Sanhedrin, p. 303, to which we could 
not refer because of the continuation in text. 

¢ The reader must not forget that this was said fourteen centuries ago. 

§ This account remains very complicated, notwithstanding Rashi’s attempt to 
explain it. And as it seems to us unimportant, we have omitted the whole dis- 
cussion. 

















TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 17 


What have I to do? Rabbi, who did not want to answer his 
question in words, told a man to mount upon the shoulders of 
another one, and having given him a dove, said to the other 
one, tell him who is mounted upon you to let the dove free. | 
From this Antoninus understood that he had to request his 
people to proclaim his son king after him, and to instruct his 
son that he should set Tiberius free. Once the same said to 
Rabbi: The officers of Rome irritate me. (What shall I do?) 
Rabbi asked him to walk with him in the garden, and began to 
tear out the large radishes of the beds, planting smaller ones 
instead, by which Antoninus understood that he intimates the 
necessity of removing the old officers little by little and not all 
at once, so as to prevent a rebellion. But why did not Rabbi 
answer him in words? He was afraid that the officers of Rome 
would get wind of it and would harm him. The same Czsar 
had.a daughter by the name Girah, and it happened that she 
sinned. Antoninus then sent to Rabbi white mustard, which is 
called in Aramaic gargira (whence Rabbi understood that some- 
thing happened with Girah). He sent him in answer a seed by 
the name of khusbratha, the meaning of which in Aramaic is 
khus bratha (remove the daughter). Antoninus again sent him 
garlic, named in Aramaic £arthz, from which Rabbi understood 
that he questioned him: Shall I cut off my child? And in an- 
swer he sent him lettuce, which is named chassa, which means 
have mercy with her. 

Antoninus used to send to Rabbi frequently pieces of pure 
gold in leather sacks covered with wheat. And to the objection 
of Rabbi: I have too much of my own, he exclaimed: Leave 
them to him who will substitute thee, that he shall spend it to 
please those who will reign after me. From the house of An- 
toninus, there was a cave which reached the house of Rabbi, 
and each time that he went to the house of Rabbi through this 
cave, he would take with him two slaves. One he used to kill 
at the gate of Rabbi, and the other when he returned, at his 
own gate. He, however, told Rabbi that at the time of his visit 
no one should be found with him. It once happened that he 
found Hanina b. Hamana with him, and to his question: Did not 
I say that no one should be found with you during my visit? 
Rabbi answered: This is not a human being. Said Antoninus 
to Hanina: Go and call for me the slave who sleeps at the gate. 
Hanina, however, found him dead, and he deliberated what to 
do: shall he go to tell him that he is dead? There isa rule that 


18 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


one must not answer with degradation; should he leave him and 
go away? This would be a disgrace to a king. He therefore 
prayed, and the dead became alive, and he then sent him to his 
master. Said Antoninus to Rabbi: I am aware that even the 
smallest of you is able to bring the dead to life. However, I 
want that when I come here, I should not find a living soul with 
you. He used to serve Rabbi in all his needs, and he once 
questioned him if he would have a share in the world to come. 
To which Rabbi answered, “‘ yea.’’ Said he: Does it not read 
[Ab. i. 18]: “‘ And there shall not be anyone remaining of the 
house of ’Eseau.”’ It means he who acts like "Eseau. But, it 
reads [Ezek. xxxii. 29]: ‘‘ There are Edom, her kings, and all 
her princes,’’ etc. The answer was, it reads kings, but not all 
her kings. Princes, but not all of them. So also we have 
learned in the following: ‘‘ Her kings, and not all of them, 
z.e., exclude Antoninus b. Asudius. Her princes and not all of 
them, excluding K’tiha b. Shalum.”’ 

What happened with the latter? There was a Cesar who 
disliked the Jews, and he asked the advice of his officers: Should 
he who hasa fibrein his foot cut it off and be at ease, or should he 
leave it and be afflicted? And the» advice of them all was, that 
he should cut it off and remain at rest. K’tiha, however, who 
was one of them, objected, saying: First you cannot get rid of 
all the Jews, as it reads [Zech. ii. 10]: ‘‘ For as the four winds 
of the heaven have I spread you abroad, saith the Lord.’’* 
And secondly, your kingdom will be considered mutilated, and 
one that kills its own subjects. The king then said: Thy ad- 
vice is true, but there is a law that he who concurs the king, 
must be thrown into the furnace. When they took him to be 
slain, he said: I bequeath all my property to R. Agiba and his 
colleagues. A heavenly voice was then heard: K’tiha b. Shalum 
has a share in the world to come. Rabbi then wept and said: 
Here we have a man who has bought his world in one moment, 
while another one has to work for it all his life. 

Antoninus served Rabbi; Adarkhan (a Persian Prince) served 
Rabh. When Antoninus departed, said Rabbi: Our union 
broke, and the same said Rabh when Adarkhan departed. 

Unklus b. Klenimus embraced Judaism, and the Cesar sent 
militia to take him. He, however, persuaded them, and they 
also became proselytes. He then sent other militia, warning 





* For the explanation, see Taanith, p. 4. 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY), 19 


them that they should not converse with him. When they took 
him and were going, he said to them: I will tell you something; 
usually the torch-bearer carries the light in front of the litter, 
the chief /ecticarius (behind the litter, carries the light) for the 
dux, the dux for the hegemon, the hegemon for the comes; but 
does the comes carry the light before the people? And they an- 
swered, No. Said he: The Holy One, blessed be He, carries 
light before Israel as it reads [Ex. xiii. 21]: ‘“ And the Lord 
went before them in a pillar of cloud,’’ etc. And they also 
became proselytes. The Cesar then sent other ones after him, 
telling them not to talk to him at all. But when they took 
him, he saw a mazuzah on the doorpost, and said to them: Do 
you know what this is? They answered: No, but you may tell 
us. He then said: It is customary with a human king that 
while he is sitting inside of his palace his servants guard him 
outside. With the Holy One, blessed be He, it is the contrary. 
His servants are inside, and He guards them from the outside, 
as it reads [Psalm cxxi. 8]: ‘‘ The Lord will guard thy going 
out and thy coming in,’’ etc. Then these became proselytes, 
too, and the Cesar did not send any more after him. It reads 
(Gen. xxv. 23]: ‘‘ And the Lord said to her, two nations are 
in thy womb.’’ Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: This 
means Antoninus and Rabbi, upon whose tables were not miss- 
ing lettuces, cucumbers and radishes, summer as well as winter. 
As the master said: The radishes masticate the food in the 
stomach, lettuces overturn it, and cucumbers extend the gut. 
But have not the disciples of Ismael taught that cucumbers are 
as harmful to the body as swords? This presents no difficulty, 
as one speaks of large ones, and the other of small ones. 

‘‘ The day of death,’’ etc. From this we see that R. Mair 
makes no difference between a death, to which burning is, and 
that to which it is not, used; in both cases as according to him, 
idols are worshipped there. Hence the burning is not a custom of 
the Amorites, which the Israelites are prohibited from. And the 
rabbis who oppose R. Mair hold that it isa custom. Why then 
do we use burning? As there is a Boraitha that one may burn 
things for the death of kings. Therefore, as to burning, we 
must say, all agree that it is not considered a custom, but an 
act of honor. The rabbis, however, hold that worship of idols 
takes place only in cases where there is burning. While accord- 
ing to R. Mair, it is worship in both cases. Where do we find 
that burning is used for kings? [Jer. xxxiv. 5]: ‘‘In peace 


20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


shalt thou die and as burnings were made for thy fathers,’’ etc. 
And as they burn for kings, so also do they for princes. What 
they used to burn upon kings? Their beds and all the utensils 
which were used by the deceased. And it happened on the 
death of Raban Gamaliel the elder, that. Unclus the proselyte 
burned clothing worth seventy mauas coined in Zur. 

‘“* The day of shaving his beard,’’ etc. The schoolman pro- 
pounded a question: Does the Mishna mean the shaving of his 
beard and the surrounding of the hair (which they used as a 
worship for the whole year, and at the end they used to remove 
for the same purpose) or do they mean the removing of the 
hair? Come and hear the following: The day of shaving the 
beard and leaving the hair and also the day of removing it. 

R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: There was still 
another festival in Rome which occurs once in seventy years, on 
which they would make a well man ride on a lame man, dress 
him in the garments of Adam, and place on his head the scalp 
of R. Ismael, etc.; on his neck was suspended gold of the 
weight of four zuz. And they cover the markets with it, herald- 
ing before him: sakh qutriphlaster.* The brother of our Lord 
is a deceiver. (They mean Jacob, the brother of Eseau, who 
deceived the latter by taking away the blessing of Isaac to him- 
self.) He who saw this now may be rejoiced, as if not to-day, 
he will not see it any more (because it was once in seventy 
years), and they would finish with: Woe will be to him at the 
time the other will arise. But why does not the Tana of our 
Mishna count this feast? Because he counts only what is usual 
each year, and not what happens once in seventy. . 

R. Hanan b. R. ’Hisda or R. Hanan b. Rabha in the name of 
Rabh said: There are five houses of idols; the house of Beil in 
Babylon, the house of Nebu in Khursi, of Tharetha in Mapag, 
Zripha in Askkilon, and Nishrain Arabia. When R. Dimi came, 
he said: It was added to them the yared of An Bekhi of Ekha of 
the town of N’dbkah. All these houses were standard, and 
were worshipped the whole year. So said R. ’Hisda in the 
name of his father-in-law. 

It is said above, that according to Samuel: In exile it is for- 





* To the explanation of these peculiar words, we give the following of Jastrow 
Dictionary: an alleged proclamation made in Rome on the occasion of a sort of 
secular game, and intended as a satire of Eseau (Rome) on his brother Jacob 
(Judaism). The interpretations of commentaries (sakh mumder of years predicted 
for the coming of the Messiah, or sakh 4ro¢her) are unsatisfactory. 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). © 2 


bidden only the very day of the festival, not the day before and 
after. But even on that day did not R. Jehudah allow R. Brona 
to buy wine and R. Giddle to buy wheat in the festival of the 
merchants? Such a festival is different, as it is not standard. 

MISHNA /V.: In a city where the idol is placed, interfering 
is forbidden inside, but not outside. And if outside, the inside 
is not forbidden. May one go to the city at that time? Ifthe 
way leads to the idol only, it is forbidden, but if it leads also 
to another place, it is not. 

GEMARA: What is meant by outside is, ¢.g., the bazaar of 
Gaza. Resh Lakish questioned R. Hanina: Is indeed the 
bazaar of Gaza permitted? And he answered: Did it not hap- 
pen to you to be in Zur where you could see an Israelite and 
a Gentile putting their pots upon one stove, and the sages did 
not object. The same is the case with the bazaar of Gaza; the 
sages did not care to forbid this because of these festivals. 

‘“* May one go to the city,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: A city in 
which an idol is placed, one must not enter, nor pass from it 
into another city. So R. Mair. The sages, however, say: The 
prohibition lies when the way is specified to that place only, but 
not otherwise. Ifa thorn sticks in one’s foot at that place where 
the idol is standing, he must not bend to take it out, because it 
would seem as bowing to the idol; but if it does not seem so, 
he may. And the same is the case if one’s money scattered 
near that place. From a spring which runs before the idol, one 
must not bend to-drink for the same reason, unless it does not 
seem as if bowing to the idol. If an aqueduct is placed in the 
idol, one must not put his mouth to it, as it would seem like 
kissing it. However, it is not advisable to put one’s mouth to 
any duct, as one may swallow a leech. 

The rabbis taught: One may not drink water from rivers or 
ponds either with his mouth or with one hand (as he cannot dis- 
cern anything in it with both hands; however, he can keep the 
water, and examine it). And if he did so, he would be respon- 
sible in case he swallowed a leech, which is dangerous, and this 
is a support to R. Hanina, who said: That for such an accident 
it is allowed to violate the Sabbath by warming water; and also 
R. Ne’hamaia allowed to do same in such acase. And R. Huna 
b. Jehoshua said: That if such happened, he may drink vinegar 
until the water is warmed. R. Idi b. Abin said: He who has 
swallowed a bee, cannot be cured. However, he may drink some 
strong vinegar, perhaps this will give him time to make his will. 


22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


MISHNA V.: If, during an idol festival in the city, some 
stores were there decorated, one must not buy from these stores, 
while he may from the others, as such a case happened in the 
city of Beth Shean, and the sages have so decided. 

GEMARA: Said Resh Lakish: The prohibition lies only on 
those which are decorated with roses and myrtles, because the 
odor pleases him, but not to those which were decorated with 
some other fruit. And the reason is [Deut. xiii. 18]: ‘‘ And 
there shall not cleave to thy hand aught of the devoted things.’’ 
Which signifies that it is prohibited only to derive any benefit 
for himself, but not to benefit others. R. Johanan, however, 
maintains that the prohibition lies also on those which are deco- 
rated with fruit, as such conclusion can be drawn a@ fortiorz. If 
deriving benefit from them is forbidden, so much the more 
should it be, to benefit them. An objection was raised from 
the following: R. Nathan said: It is usual in the day of the idol 
to herald: everyone who will decorate his head and the heads of 
his animals for the honor of the idol will be freed from duties 
_ for such and such a time. “What had then a Jewtodo? Should 
he decorate, then he derives benefit from the idols; should he 
not, then he benefits them. From this it was said: He who is 
doing business in the market established for the idol, his prop- 
erty must be destroyed in such a manner that no one should be 
able to derive any benefit of it. We see, then, that to benefit 
is also prohibited, and this contradicts Resh Lakish’s above 
statement. Said R. Mesharshia b. R. Idi: Resh Lakish hold 
that the rabbis differ with R. Nathan, and the Halakha prevails 
with the majority, while R. Johanan holds that they do not . 
differ. (Here is repeated from tract Minor Festivals and Abel 
Rabbathi, which we deem not necessary to translate.) 

R. Jacob bought shoes on such a market day, and R. Jere- 
miah bought bread. Each of them bought from a private man, 
not from a storekeeper. However, each one thought that his 
colleague bought from a storekeeper, and rebuked each other 
because of the statement of Aba b. R. ’Higya b. Aba: That the 
prohibition to buy lies only from a storekeeper, but not from a 
private, as a private does not pay any duties. He also said that 
if R. Johanan were in such a place where they take duties from 
a private also, he would forbid to buy even froma private. The 
above-mentioned sages, however, bought their goods from such 
a private who was not established at that city, and, therefore, 
they were sure that he does not pay duties. 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 23 


MISHNA VZ.: The following are forbidden to be sold to 
the heathens: Fir-cones, white figs on their stems, frankincense, 
and a white cock. R. Jehudah, however, said: That a white 
cock may be sold among other cocks, and if singly, he has to 
cut off a finger of it, because the heathens do not sacrifice an 
animal of which an organ is missing. All other things may be 
sold anonymously, but if they say that they buy it for worship- 
ping, one must not sell. R. Mair, however, forbids to sell them 
fine date trees, sugar-canes, and a variety of dates. 

GEMARA: “‘ Frankincense,’’ said R. Itzchak in the name 
of Resh Lakish: Only the best frankincense which is used for 
worshipping, and there is a Boraitha: That from all the things 
mentioned above, one bundle may be sold; and what is to be 
considered a bundle? Explained R. Jehudah b. Bathyra: No 
less than three manas worth. But why not fear perhaps the 
buyer will sell of it for worshipping? Said Abayi: We are told 
not to put a stone before the blind, ourselves, but we are not 
told that we should fear some other one should do same with 
our stone. (The prohibition is, because one must not assist a 
sinner, and worshipping idols is a sin even to the heathens.) 

‘A white cock,’’ etc. R. Jonna in the name of R. Zara 
according to others quoting R. Zebid, said: If the buyer is 
searching for a cock anonymously, even a white one may be sold 
to him. But if he asks for a white cock, then such must not be 
sold. There is an objection from our Mishna. R. Jehudah 
said: It may be sold among others. Now, let us see the nature 
of the case. If the buyer ask for a white cock, then certainly it 
must not be sold even among others; we must then say that he 
asks for a cock in general, and notwithstanding this, is allowed 
to sell it among the others, but not singly, even according to 
R. Jehudah. And according to the first Tana, not even among 
the others? Said R. Nahman b. Itzhak: The Tanaim of our 
Mishna speaks of a case when the buyer mentioned a black, red 
and white one. According to the first Tana, as soon as white is 
mentioned, it must not be sold even among others, and accord- 
ing to R. Jehudah, it may, on the supposition that as the other 
colors are not for sacrificing, the white is not either. But if 
color was not mentioned at all, even according to the first Tana, 
the white may be sold among other colors. And there is a Bo- 
raitha in accordance with R. Na’hman b. Itzchak, as follows: 
R. Jehudah said: The prohibition is in force only when the 
buyer says, Sell me this white cock; but if he said, Sell me this 


24 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and other colors you have, it is not. And even in the former 
case, if the buyer has a sick person in his house, or he is pre- 
paring a banquet for his son, it is permitted. But does not our 
Mishna state above: That in such a case ¢kat man as well as 
that day zs prohibited? Said R. Itzchak b. R. Mesharshia: R. 
Jehudah, by the word banquet means a dancing banquet, on 
which sacrificing is not used, and not a wedding banquet. R. 
Ashi propounded a question: If the buyer asks for a blemished 
white cock (which is not used for sacrificing), may one sell him 
a good white cock, or is it to be feared that because he knows 
that an Israelite would not sell him a white cock, he deceives 
him by asking for a blemished one; and should you decide that 
such is prohibited? Furthermore, how is the law in case he 
asks for a white one and, nevertheless, takes also a black anda 
red one; may one then sell him a white one also, as it is to be 
supposed that he does not take them for sacrificing; or here, 
also, it may be feared that he bought the other colors only 
because he needs the white one? This question remains unde- 
cided. . | 

‘* R. Mair said,’’ etc. Said R. ’Hisda to Abimi: We have 
a tradition that the tract Aboda Zara of Abraham the patriarch 
contained four hundred chapters. We, however, have only five 
of them, and even these we do not quite understand. What is 
the difficulty? R. Mair said: ‘‘ A fine date tree,’’ from which 
it is to be understood that a simple one may be sold. And 
_ there isa Mishna: Nothing must be sold of that which is attached 
to the ground. Answered Abimi: By a“ fine date tree’’ the 
fruit of it is meant; and so also said R. Huna: ¢.g., (Hazal 
nkshba nklas) the species or variety of dates. When R. Dimi 
came from Palestine, he said in the name of Hamma b. Joseph: 
Qurytt (that which is fit for a drink, made of cariota [cariotum]). 
Said Abayi to him: We have learned zk/as, and we do not know 
what it is, and now you say gurytz, and we do not know what it 
is either. Of what use is it, then, to us? And he answered: If 
you happened to be in Palestine and say zk/as, no one would 
understand you, but if you said there gurytz, they would under- 
stand, and show you what it means. 

MISHNA V//.: In places where it is customary to sell 
small cattle (sheep, goats, etc.) to heathens, it is lawful to 
do so, but not in places where this is not customary. Large 
cattle must not be sold to them at all, nor calves nor foals 
of asses, either sound or broken-legged. R. Jehudah per- 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 25 


mits the sale of the latter, and Ben Bathyra permits the sale 
of a horse.* | 

GEMARA: From this Mishna it seems that it relies only 
upon a custom, but there is no prohibition, and in the first 
Mishna of the second chapter, we see that one must not place 
an animal in the inns of the heathens, etc. Said R. Eleazar: 
Even at those places where it is forbidden to place the animals 
in their inns, it is allowed to sell them. As usual the heathen 
takes care that his animals should not be uprooted. And so 
also said R. Tachlipha in the name of Shila b. Abimi, quoting 
Rabh. As the latter retracted his first statement ‘‘ that it must 
not.”’ 

““ Large cattle,’’ etc. R. Ada permitted to sell an ass through 
a middleman (also an Israelite). R. Huna sold a cow to a hea- 
then. Said R.’Hisda to him: Why did the masterdoso? And 
he answered: Because it seems to me that he bought it for the 
purpose of slaughtering. And whence do we know that such is 
permitted? From (Shebiith, v. 8), where the school of Shamai 
says: One must not sell a ploughing cow on the Sabbathical 
year. The school of Hillel, however, permits it, gies one 
_ may buy it for slaughtering. 

Said Rabba: What comparison is this? Concerning the Sab- 
bathical year, there is no obligation that cattle shall rest then, 
while on the Sabbath one is obliged to give his cattle rest. Said 
Abayi to him: But where do we find that such is forbidden, even 
when there isan obligation? Thereisa Tosephta: The school of 
Hillel permits to sell a ploughing field in the Sabbathic year, be- 
cause it may be supposed that one buys it to rest this year, but to 
plough it the next, and one is certainly obliged not to plough 
his field on the Sabbathic year. R. Ashi opposed: On the con- 
trary, there is a Mishna [Shebiith, v. 6]: ‘* Ploughing vessels 
must not be sold on the Sabbathic year,’’ and we know of no 
obligation that one must give rest to his ploughing vessels. 
And therefore, says he: When there is a supposition that it can 
be used for another purpose, we may do so, even, when there 
is an obligation; but when there is no such supposition, it must 
not be done, even when there is no obligation. 

Rabba sold an ass to an Israelite, who was suspected of sell- 
ing it toa heathen. Said Abayi to him: Why have the masters 





* This Mishna is repeated from tract Passover, p. 90. We did not omit because 
it is a Mishna and because of the discussions of the Gemara here. 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


done so? And he answered: I sold it to an Israelite. And to 
Abayi’s question: But he will sell it to a heathen, he answered: 
Does he sell to heathens only, if an Israelite will give him a good 
price will he not sell it? Abayi then objected to him from the 
following: In places where it is customary to sell small cattle to 
Samaritans, one may do so, but not in places where it is not 
customary; and this is only because they are suspected of sell- 
ing it to the heathens, as all other reasons advanced were de- 
nied. (Hence, we see that one must not sell to a suspected 
one.) Rabba then ran after him three miles to return him, but 
failed to overtake him. Said R. Dimi b. Aba: As it is not 
allowed to sell *to a heathen, so it is not allowed to sell to an 
Israelite either, who is a robber. What does the expression 
‘‘robber’’ mean? If he is suspected that in case of an opposi- 
tion, he would slay, then it is self-evident, for he is worse than 
a heathen; and if he is not suspected of such, why not sell to 
him? It speaks of one who is suspected of slaying only, then, 
when the owner runs after him to persecute. The rabbis taught: 
Shields must not be sold to those; others, however, taught they 
may. The reason of those who forbid is, that if they are short 
in weapons they use the shields instead; and the reason of those 
who permit is, that if they are short in weapons they run away. 
Said R. Na’hman in the name of Rabba b. Abuhu: The Halakha 
prevails with the latter. R. Ada b. Aba said: Lumps of 


wrought iron must not be sold to them, because they make © 


weapons of it; but if so, should not spades be forbidden, too? 
Said R. Zabid: It means of Indian iron, which is useful for 
weapons. And now that we do sell to them is because the Per- 
sians are protecting us with their weapons. So said R. Ashi. 

MISHNA V/Z//.: One must not sell to them bears, lions, 
and all such things by which the people can be injured. One 
must not conjoin himself in building their court houses (from 
the roofs of which they usually throw the one who is sentenced 
to death, to be killed), gradus, arenas and scaffolds. However, 
in building monuments and bath-houses, one may. But when 
they reached that chamber in which their idols should be placed, 
he must stop. 

GEMARA: Rabbina propounded a contradiction. Our 
Mishna states: That only things which may be injurious to the 
people, whence it is to be understood that if not injurious, it 
does not matter, from the following: As one must not sell to 
them large cattle, so also must he not do with large beasts. 


EN a ee eS ee ee ee ee ee ne ee een oe DN ee 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 27 


And even in those places where small cattle may be sold, large 
beasts must not. (We see, then, that even such that are harm- 
less must not be sold either.) And he explains that our Mishna 
speaks of a lame lion, and it is in accordance with R. Jehudah, 
who holds that such may be sold. R. Na’hman opposed: Who 
can say that the lion is placed under the category of large 
beasts; perhaps he is placed under the category of small ones.* 

‘* Himself in butlding.’’ Said Rabba b. b. Hanna in the 
name of R. Johanan: There were three such palaces: for kings, 
for bath-houses, and for treasuries. Said Rabba: All of them 
are permitted. | | 

The rabbis taught: When R. Eleazar was captured by the 
government, accusing him of being a mzn, he was brought to 
the gradus, and the hegemon (chief judge) said to him: A sage 
like yourself should engage himself in such a valueless thing. 
And he answered: The judge himself may testify that such is 
not the case. [The segemon thought that he means him; he, 
however, meant the heavenly judge.] And he said: Because 
you trust in me, I swear by Dzmus (his idol) that you are free 
from this accusation. When R. Eleazar returned home, his dis- 
ciples surrounded him to condole him, but he did not accept it. 
Said R. Aqiba to him: ‘‘ Rabbi, allow me to say before you one 
of the things you taught me,’’ and he allowed him. Said he to 
him: ‘‘ Rabbi, probably some explanations of the minim pleased 
you and you have accepted them, and therefore you were sus- 
pected and captured.’’ Answered he: ‘‘ Aqiba, you have re- 
minded me; it happened once that I walked in the upper market 
of Ciporas, and I met one of the minim, named Jacob, of the 
village of Zachania and he said to me’’: It reads [ Deut. xxiii. 
19]: ‘‘ Thou shalt not bring the hire of a harlot,’’ etc. May then 
a retiring room for the high priest be built from such money? 
And I kept silent. Said he to me: So taught Jeshu b. Pan- 
thyra.+ It reads [Mich. i. 7]: ‘‘ For from harlot’s wages she © 
gathered them, and for harlot’s wages shall they be used again ’’ ; 
hence, money that comes from a dirty place, may be expended 





* The text discusses here whether an animal in convulsive movement before 
death is considered alive or dead, which is inserted here not in its proper place, nor 
is it of importance and therefore omitted. 

+ In Tosaphta Chulin (ii. 24) it states that Eliazar said: Jacob has related to 
me things of minim in the name of Jeshu b. Panthyra, and I was pleased with them. 
But it is not mentioned what it was, and we are in doubt whether it means the 
Joke in text. This may serve as an answer to the criticism of the ‘‘ Open court.” 
Vol. 16, pp. 475-477. 


28 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


on a dirty place, which explanation pleased me. It is for this 
that I was suspected and captured. And I confess that I have 
transgressed [Prov. v. 8]: “‘ Remove far from her thy way, and 
come not nigh to the door of her house.’’ ‘‘ Remove from her,”’’ 
means from minunism and “‘ come not nigh’’ means to govern- 
ment. Others, however, interpret same ‘‘ remove far’’ etc. as 
to mean minunism, and “‘ come not nigh’’ etc., prostitution, 
which place, according to R. ‘Hisda, is prohibited to approach 
from a distance of four yards. 

Mar. Ugqba said: it reads [Ps. xxx. 15]: ‘‘ The leech hath 
two daughters (crying) Give, give,’’ z.e., minunism and the 
government, which are never satisfied, the first of catching men 
to her belief, and the second, duties. R. ’Hisda in the name of 
Mar. Uqba said: The Gehenna cries, saying, “‘ bring me in the 
two daughters, who always cry in this world ’’: ‘‘ Bring in to me, 
bring in to me.’’ It reads [Prov. ii. 19]: ‘‘ All that come unto 
her return not again, and they will not reach the paths of life.’’ 
If they do not return again, they will certainly not reach the 
paths of life? It means, therefore, that they who repent and 
return from minunism, die that they might not return to minu- 
nism again. Does one die who repents minunism only and not 
other sins; is there not a Boraitha: It was said of Elazar b. 
Durdia who left not out one prostitute. He was once informed 
that there was a prostitute in one of the sea countries, who re- 
ceived a pocketful of dinars in reward, and he took this amount 
and passed seven rivers until he reached her. She, however, 
caused him to repent. He then placed himself between two 
mountains saying; ‘“O ye mountains, pray for me,’’ to which 
they answered: ‘* Instead of praying for thee, we must pray for 
ourselves’’ [Is. liv. 10]: “‘ For the mountain may depart, and 
the hills may be removed.’’ He then said: ‘“ Heaven and earth, . 
pray for me,’’ and they also answered: ‘‘ We have to pray for 
ourselves,’ as it reads [ibid. li. 6]: ‘‘ For the heavens shall van- 
ish,’’ etc. The same answer he got from the sun and the moon 
of which it reads [ibid. xxiv. 23]: ‘““ And the moon shall be put 
to the blush and the sun be made ashamed.’’ A similar answer 
he got from the stars and planets of which it reads in [ibid. 
xxxiv. 4]: ‘‘ And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved.’’ 
He then exclaimed: ‘‘ I see that I can rely only upon myself,’’ 
and having put his head between his knees, he wept until his 
soul departed. A heavenly voice was then heard, saying, “‘ R. 
Elazar b. Durdia is prepared for life in the world to come.” 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 29 


Rabbi, when he heard this, wept, saying, ‘‘ there is again one 
who bought his world in one moment while another one must 
work for it all his life.’’ And again, it is not enough for those 
who repent, that they get a share in the world to come, but they 
are named also rabbis, as the heavenly voice said: Rabbi Eliazar, 
etc. [hence we see that he who has repented from sin, also died? 
Because he, Elazar was involved in such, it is similar to minu- 
nism]. 

R. Hanina and R. Jonathan were on the road and they met 
two thoroughfares, one leading to the gate of an idol and the 
other to the gate of the prostitutes. Said one to his colleague: 
Let us go on that which leads to the idol as the evil spirit of 
idolators is killed. Answered his colleague: On the contrary, 
let us go on to that which leads to the prostitute so that we 
should overrule the evil spirit, and be rewarded. When they 
arrived to the prostitutes, the latter ran away to their homes. 
And his colleague asked him: “* What was the reason you relied 
upon—[Prov. ii. 11]: ‘ Discretion * will watch over thee, under- 
standing will keep thee.’ ’’ 

The rabbis taught: When R. Elazar b. Partha and R. Hanina 
b. Tradian were captured by the government, said the former 
to the latter: ‘‘ Happy are you, that you were captured because 
of/one thing only, and woe is to me that I am captured for five 
things.’’ Said he: Happy are you who are accused of five things 
and will be saved, woe is to me who am accused only of one 
thing shall be sentenced. The reason is, that you were occu- 
pied with both the Torah and with bestowing of favors, while 
I was occupied with the Torah only. This is in accordance 
with R. Huna who said elsewhere: He who is occupied with 
the Torah only, is similar to him who denies God. As it reads 
[II Chron. xv. 3]: ‘‘ And many days (had elapsed) for Israel, 
(they being) without the true God.’’ What does the expression 
*“ without the true God’’ mean? He who occupies himself with 
the Torah, but does not observe bestowing of favors, which is 
the main point of humanity. Was indeed R. Hanina b. Tradial 
not occupied in bestowing of favors? Is it not stated further on 
that he did? Yea, but not so as it was fit for his dignity. 
Elazar b. Partha was brought before the judges and they asked: 
“Why are you studying, and stealing? And he answered: If 





* The term for discretion in Hebrew is me zema the last word is the term for 
prostitution and the Talmud explains it as it would be written men zema which 
means from prostitution. 


30 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


one is a scholar, he is no warrior (robber) and if a warrior, he is 
no scholar, and as it is not true that I am a warrior, so is it also 
untrue that Iam ascholar. Why then are you named master? 
And he answered: ‘‘ I am the master of embroidering.’’ They 
brought two coils before him and said to him: ‘‘ Which is warp 
and which is woof?’’ A miracle occurred and a female bee set on 
the warp while a male bee on the woof and he said: This is 
a warp and this is a woof. ‘‘ Why did you not visit the Bee 
abidon (the house of. discussion)?’’ And he answered: “‘ I am 
too old, and feared perhaps I would be trodden down under the 
feet of the crowd.’’ ‘‘ Has it ever happened that old men 
should be trodden down in the mentioned house? Again a mir- 
acle occurred, and just at that time they were notified that an 

old man was trodden down in the house in. question. ‘‘ And — 
why then have you freed your slave (which is forbidden)?”’ 
This never occurred. One of the crowd, however, arose to tes- 
tify against him. Elijah then disguised himself as one of the 
consuls of the government and said to the witness: As in all 
the other things a miracle occurred, the same would occur also 
in this case and you would be considered an enemy of his and 
a liar, The alleged witness, however, did not listen and rose 
to bear his testimony. Meanwhile, a letter from one of the 
great officers which was to be sent to the Cesar was handed 
to this man as messenger. While he was going, Elijah caught 
and threw him four hundred farsas, so that he did not return 
any more. Hanina b. Tradian was then brought before them 
and questioned why he occupied himself with the Torah, and he 
answered: Because I am so commanded by the Lord my God. 
The decree was then rendered that he should be burned, his 
wife killed, and his daughter to be taken to the house of prosti- 
tutes. [He to be burned, because he used to express the name 
Jehovah as it is written (and not Adonai as it is to be read 
instead), but why did he so? Did not Aba Shaul say (Sanhe- 
drin, p. 265) that he who does so has no share in the world to 
come? He did so to learn which is allowed privately, but he 
did it also publicly. His wife to be killed, because she has 
not prevented his doing so by protesting; from this it is to 
be inferred that he who feels that his protests would effect and 
does not protest, is punished therefor. And his daughter to 
prostitution; because, according to R. Johanan, it happened 
once that she walked in the presence of the great people of 
Rome, and they exclaimed: How nice are the steps of this girl! 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 31 


And from that time she took care of her steps to please the 
spectators.| When all the three went out from the court, they 
justified the decrees upon them. Hanina said [Deut. xxxii. 4]: 
‘* He is the Rock, his work is perfect,’’ etc. His wife said: 
‘* The God of truth and without iniquity’’; and his daughter 
said [Jer. xxxii. 19]: ‘‘ Great in council, and mighty in execu- 
tion (thou) whose eyes are open over all the ways of the sons of 
man.’’ Said Rabbi: How great are these upright that to justify 
their decrees, the three verses of justification came to their 
mouths, at the time of so great a trouble. 

The rabbis taught: When R. Jose b. Kisma became sick, 
R. Hanina b. Tradian called on him; the former said to him: 
Hanina, my brother, are you not aware that this nation is reign- 
ing by heavenly decree, and notwithstanding that she has de- 
stroyed the Temple, burned the palaces, killed the pious and 
put out of the way all the best of Israel, she is still in force. 
About you, however, I heard that notwithstanding the decree 
‘of the government, you occupy yourself with the Torah pub- 
licly, and you bear with you the Holy Scrolls at all time. 
Hanina then answered: The heavens shall have mercy with us. 
Exclaimed Jose: I am relating to you reasons, and you say, 
the heavens shall have mercy. I wonder whether the govern- 
ment will not burn you with the Holy Scrolls on fire? Hanina 
then said: Rabbi, what will become of me in the world to come? 
And Jose asked him: Did not some of the meritorious acts come 
to your hand? And he answered: The money which I prepared 
to celebrate Purim, I erred, thinking that it was of the charity 
treasury; I have distributed it to the poor, and thereafter I 
have not collected from the charity. If so, answered Jose, I 
wish that my share should be like yours, and my fate similar. 

It was said that a few days later R. Jose ben Kisma de- 
parted, and all the great men of Rome were going after his 
coffin, lamenting him greatly. On their return, they found 
Hanina b. Tradian studying the Torah publicly with the Holy 
Scrolls in his bosom; he was enwrapped in the Holy Scrolls and 
surrounded with branches of trees, which were kindled. And 
two woollen towels, soaked in water, were placed on his heart 
that his soul might not depart so quickly, and when his daugh- 
ter said to him: Father, is it just, what I see done with you? 
He answered: If I were burned alone, it would be hard for me, 
but now that I am burned in conjunction with the Holy Scrolls, 
I am sure that He who will take revenge for the Holy Scrolls 


32 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


will take revenge for me also. His disciples questioned him: 
What do you see now? And he answered: I see the letters are 
flying away from the parchment while zkey burned. They said 
to him: Rabbi, open your mouth, so that the fire should catch 
you, and he answered: It is better that my soul be taken by 
Him who gave it and not I myself shall cause it an earlier death. 
The executioner then said to him: Rabbi, if I will increase this 
fire and will take off the woollen towels from your heart, would 
you bring me to life in the world to come? To which he an- 
swered, Yea. He then asked him to swear, which he did. Im-: 
mediately he increased the fire, took off the towels, and his 
soul departed. The executioner himself then jumped into the 
fire. A heavenly voice was then heard: Hanina and the execu- 
tioner are prepared for life in the world to come. Rabbi then 
wept, saying: There is one again who bought his world in one 
moment, etc. 

Bruria, the wife of R. Mair, was a daughter of Hanina b. 
Tradian, and she said to her husband: It is a disgrace for me 
that my sister should be in the house of prostitution. He then 
took with him a rpzyafos full with dmars, and said: I will go 
there, and if she is yet pure, a miracle will occur. He disguised 
himself as a military rider, visited her, asking her to listen to 
him. She, however, gives him many reasons, and finally tells 
him that in this place he will find many who are more beautiful 
than she. He then convinced himself that she answered the 
same to everyone, and went to her guardian asking him to ac- 
cept the money he brought for transferring her to him, saying: 
The half of the dzars will be sufficient to bribe the officers of the 
government, and the other half will remain for you. And to 
his question: What should I do when the half will be spent and 
they will still persecute me? he answered: You will then say, 
God of Mair, help me, and you will be saved. And whence do 
I know that so it is? Mair answered: I will convince you im- 
mediately. There were dogs who devoured people, and the 
guard stimulated them upon Mair, and he pronounced -God of 
Mair, answer me, and they kept aloof from him. The guard 
then delivered to Mair his sister-in-law. Finally, the govern- 
ment got wind of it, and the guardian was brought to the gal- 
lows to be hanged, and as soon as he pronounced, God of Mair, 
help me, he was thrown down uninjured. And to the question, 
What is it? he related before all what happened. The govern- 
ment then engraved the picture of R. Mair on the gate of Rome, 











TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 33 


commanding that he who should see such a face should deliver 
him to the officers. It happened that he was once seen, and 
they ran after him; he then ran away to a place of prostitution, 
and Elijah disguised himself as one of the prostitutes and em- 
braced him. The officers then said that it must be someone 
else, as Mair would not do so. Thereafter, Mair ran away to 
Babylon, according to some, because of this occasion, and ac- 
cording to others, because of that which happened to Brura.* 

(Concerning arenas and circuses) Tanaim differ in the follow- 
ing: An Israelite must not visit arenas, because they are consid- 
ered a place of scorners. R. Nathan, however, permits it for 
two reasons: first, one should be able to save an Israelite if it 
happened that he was placed there by animosity; and secondly, 
if it happened that an Israelite should die there, the visitor may 
then be a witness, so that the widow of the deceased should be 
allowed to remarry. 

The rabbis taught: One must not go to the theatres and cir- 
cuses, because at those places they gather up money for the 
idols; so R. Mair. The sages, however, say: In the places 
where they gather, it is prohibited because of the suspicion of 
idolatry. And in those where they are not gathering, it is pro- 
hibited, because they are considered places of scorners. R. 
Simeon b. Pazi lectured [Psalm i. 1]: ‘“ Happy is the man who 
walketh not in the council of the wicked, and standeth not in 
the way of sinners, and sitteth not in the seat of scorners.’’ If 
he had not walked how could he stand, and if he did not stand 
how could he sit, and if he did not sit, how could he scorn? It 
means as follows: That if he had walked, ‘he will finally stand, 
and if stood, he will finally sit and scorn, and concerning him 
it is said [Prov. ix. 12]: ‘‘ But if thou art a scorner, thou alone 
will have to bear it.’’ Said R. Eliezar: He who scorns brings 
chastisements upon himself as [Is. xxviii. 22]: ‘‘ And now be 
ye no longer scornful, lest your bonds be made strong.’’ And 
Rabha said to the rabbis (his disciples): I beg you not to scorn so 
that chastisements shall not come upon ye. And R. Ktina said: 
Even his food becomes lessened, as it reads [Hos. vii. 5]: ‘‘ (Be- 
cause) he joineth his hand with scorners.’’ (Here is repeated 
about the same matter from Last Gate, p. 30.) R. Simeon b. 
Pazi lectured again: ‘‘ Happy is the man who walketh not’”’ to 





* The text does not say what happened to her. Rashi explains that she com- 
mitted suicide because of a discussion between her and her husband, who finally con- 
quered her. 


34 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the theatres and circuses of the heathens, ‘‘ standeth not in the 
way of sinners,’’ that is, he who does not stand as a spectator at 
bestial contests (arranged by the Romans). And “‘ the sitting 
of scorners’’ beget contention. And lest one say: As all the 
above I have not done, I may engage my time in sleeping, there- 
fore, ‘‘ But whose delight is in the law of the Lord.’’ 

R. Samuel b. Na’hman in the name of R. Jonathan said: 
** Happy is the man who walketh not,’’ etc., means Abraham 
our father, who was not conjoined with the generation of sepa- 
ration, who were wicked, as [Gen. xi. 3]: ‘‘ Let us make bricks,’’ 
etc. ‘‘In the way of sinners,’’ etc.—he did not stand with 
Sodomites of whom it reads [ibid. xiii. 13]: ‘‘ But the men of 
Sodom were wicked and sinners,’’ etc.—‘‘ with scorners’’—he 
did not associate himself with the Philistines, who were ‘‘ scorn- 
ers,’’ as [Judges xvi. 25]: ‘‘ Call for Samson that he may make 
sport of us.”’ | 

It reads [Psalms, cxii. 1]: “‘ Happy is the man that feareth 
the Lord.’’ Man, and not woman? Said R. Amram in the 
name of Rabh: Happyis he who repents when he is still young. 
And R. Jehoshua b. Levi said: Happy is he who conquers his 
evil spirit, as a heroic man; -“‘ that greatly delighteth in his com- 
mandments.’’ Said R. Eliezar: In his commandments, but not 
in the reward for them. And this is what a Mishna in Aboth 
states: Be not like slaves who serve their master because of 
reward, but as the one who serves him not to receive any reward. 
‘‘In the law of the Lord is his delight,’’ said Rabh: z.e., one 
should always study the law to which his heart is inclined. Levi 
and R. Simeon, the son of Rabbi, were sitting before Rabbi 
reading one book of the Bible, and after finishing Levi said: 
Bring us ‘‘ Proverbs.’’ And R. Simeon said: Bring us*‘ Psalms.’’ 
He overruled Levi, and ‘‘ Psalms’’ was brought. When they 
came to the verse, “‘In the law of the Lord is his delight,’’ 
Rabbi stopped and said: One has to study only what his heart 
is inclined to. Said Levi to him: Rabbi, with this you have 
given us permission to stop studying. R. Abdimi b. Hama 
said: Him who occupies himself with the Torah, the Holy One, 
blessed be He, grants his desire. Rabha said: At the time one 
begins to study, the Torah is named the Holy One’s, but after 
studying, it is considered to be his (the student’s); as first it is 
written the law of the Lord, and thereafter, in 4zs Jaw. Andhe 
said again: One shall first study, and thereafter deliberate, as the 
above-cited verse reads. The same said again: One shall study, 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 35 


although he forgets; shall study, although he does not under- 
stand it well.* (Here is repeated from Sanhedrin, p. 369, and 
from Erubin, p. 126. See there.) It reads [Psalm i. 3]: ‘‘ And 
he shall be like a tree replanted by rivulets,’’ etc. Said the 
disciple of Janai: ‘‘ Replanted and not planted’’ signifies that 
he who receives his knowledge from one master, does not see 
any blessing in his studies. Said R. ’Hisda to his disciples: I 
would like to tell you something, but I am afraid you will leave 
me: He who studies always from one master, does not see any 
blessing. They then left him and went to the college of Rabba, 
who, when he heard the above reason, said to them: This is 
true only concerning reasons and ingenuity; but as for tradi- 
tions, it is better to learn them from one master, so that they 
should not be metamorphosed in different versions. Tanhum 
b. Hanilai said: It is advisable to divide one’s years into three 
parts: one-third for the study of Scripture, the second, Mishna, 
and the third, Talmud. But does one know how long he has to 
live? It means, he should do it every day. 

‘‘The fruit in its season . . . does not wither,’’ said 
Rabha: It signifies that if the fruit is given in its season, then 
its leaves will not wither; but if not, the succeeding verse (4) 
applies to both the teacher and pupil. 

R. Aba in the name of R. Hunna, quoting Rabh, said [ Prov. 
vii. 26]: ‘‘ For many deadly wounded hath she caused to fall,’’ 
means a disciple who, though not as yet fit, decides questions; 
‘‘ very numerous were slain by her,’’ means the contrary: he 
who is fit to do so and does not. And until what age? Till he 
reaches his fortieth year. But has not Rabha decided questions 
in his youth? It was because there was no greater scholar than 
he. Aba b. Adain the name of Rabh, or b. Aba in the name 
of R. Hamnuna, quoting Rabh, said: Even the gossip of a 
scholar is to be studied, as it reads: ‘‘ And its leaves shall not 
wither.”’ 

R. Joshua b. Levi said: The following is written in the Pen- 
tateuch, repeated in the Prophets, and thirdly in the Hagiogra- 
pha: He who occupies himself with the Torah is prosperous in 
all his undertakings. Inthe Pentateuch [ Deut. xxix. 8]: ‘“ Keep 
ye therefore the words of this covenant, and do them, that ye 
may prosper in all that ye do,’’ repeated in Prophets [Jos. i. 8]: 





* In text it is inferred from (Ps. cxix. 20). However, the translation does not 
correspond and therefore the quotation is omitted. 


36 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘* This book of the book shall not depart out of thy mouth; but 
thou shalt mediate therein day and night, in order that thou 
mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein; 
for then shalt thou make thy way prosperous, and then shalt 
thou have good success.’’ And thirdly in Hagiographa [Psalm 
i. 2, 3]: ‘‘ But whose delight is in the law of the Lord, and who 
doth meditate in his law by day and night. (3) And he shall 
be like a tree planted by rivulets of water, that yieldeth its fruit 
in its season, and the leaf of which doth not wither; and all that 
he may do shall prosper.”’ 

R. Alexander heralded: Who wants to live, who wants to 
live? And a big crowd surrounded him. He then referred 
them to [ibid. xxxiv. 14-16]. 

‘* Where the tdols should be placed,’’ etc. Said R. Eliezar in 
the name of R. Johanan: If however, he has built, the reward 
of it is valid. Is this not self-evident? It is only the prepara- 
tion for the idol to which both R. Ismael and R. Aqiba agree 
that they are not forbidden, unless the idol is already wor- 
shipped? Said R. Jeremiah: The Mishna means that even if 
he has made the idol itself, the reward is valued. But this is 
correct only to him, who holds that when an Israelite made an 
idol for himself, it is forbidden even before it was worshipped; 
but of a heathen, it is not, unless worshipped. But to him who 
holds that the same is the case with the idol of a heathen, what 
can be said? Said Rabba b. Ula: The Mishna refers to the fin- 
ishing touch, which completes the idol, and the reason is: what 
made the idol ready? The last touch, which in itself is not 
worth the smallest coin (a perutha), and therefore it is not for- 
bidden. From this it may be inferred that the Tana holds the 
obligation to pay a laborer, counts from the beginning till the 
very end of the labor, and not only after its completion. 

MISHNA /Y.: One must not manufacture ornaments for 
an idol—e.g., necklaces, nose-bands and rings. R. Eliezar, 
however, maintains that for reward one may. Nothing must be 
sold to them while attached to the ground, but after it was cut 
off, one may. R. Jehudah said: He may also sell with the 
stipulation to cut it off afterward. 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? Said R. Jose, from 
[Deut. vii. 2]: ‘‘ Nor favor them,’’* means, he shall not give 





* The term for favor in Hebrew is chanina. Chanina means also rest. Hence 
the deduction. 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 37 


him a rest in the land; we have learned similarly in a Boraitha, 
with the addition that it also means: You shall not give him 
such which shall make them merciful in the eyes of others. 
(Here is repeated from Chulin, p. 114 b.) The above statement 
is a support to that which Rabh said: It is forbidden to say: 
How nice is this female heathen? An objection was raised. 
R. Simeon b. Gamalien, being once on the steps of the Temple 
mountain, happened to see a female heathen who was a great 
beauty, and he exclaimed: ‘‘ How great is thy work O Lord!”’ 
And it happened also to R. Aqiba that, when he saw the wife 
of Tornus Rupus, he laughed and wept. Laughed, because he 
saw that she would become a proselyte, and he would marry 
her; wept, that such a beauty must be buried under earth? 
This does not contradict Rabh, as it was only a benediction, 
which one has to recite by seeing nice creatures.* R. Joshua 
b. Levi said: Modesty is the greatest of them all, as it reads 
[Is. Ixi. 1]: ‘“ Hath anointed me to announce good tidings unto 
the meek,’’ it does not read to announce pious men, but meek; 
hence modesty is greatest. 

‘“ One must not sell.’’ The rabbis taught: One may sell 
them a tree with the stipulation to cut it off, and he cuts it im- 
mediately, so R. Jehudah. R. Mair, however, says: Only that 
which is already cut. The same is the case with hay, and also 
with flour. According to R. Jehudah, it may be sold to harvest, 
and according to R. Mair that which is already harvested. It 
was necessary to learn their points of differing in all the three, 
as one from the other could not be inferred (we omit the reasons, 
as of little importance). The schoolman propounded a ques- 
tion: May one sell them a cow with the stipulation to slaughter 
it? Shall we assume that the above things R. Jehudah permits, 
because they are not under the control of the heathen so that 
he is not able to prolong time? But in the case of a cow which 
he takes immediately, he may prolong the time a good deal 
until slaughtering, and this even R. Jehudah will not allow. 
Come and hear the following: One may sell a cow with the 
stipulation of slaughtering, and the heathen has to do it imme- 
diately. So R. Jehudah, while R. Mair permits only the sale 
of the slaughtered. 





* Here is repeated from many tracts, especially from Middle Gate, p. 227, anda 
whole Mishna from Tract Shekalim vi, which we have omitted. The statement of 
R. Joshua b. Levi in text belongs to the Mishna Shekalim vi, which states that 
piety is greater than all other good things. 


38 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


MISHNA X.: Houses must not be rented to the heathens 
in Palestine, not to speak of fields. In Syria, however, houses 
are permitted to be sold, but not fields, and out of Syria houses 
may be sold and fields rented. So R. Mair. R. Jose, however, 
said: In Palestine, houses may be rented, but not fields, in 
Syria houses sold, and fields rented; out of Syria, everything 
may be sold. However, even in the places where renting is 
allowed, it must not be for residence, as the idol is brought 
there, which is against [Deut. vii. 26]: “‘ And thou shalt not 
bring an abomination in thy house.’’ A bath-house must not 
be rented at any place because it is named after the owner, who 
is an Israelite (and he can be suspected of heating it himself on 
the Sabbath). 

GEMARA: What is meant by the expression “‘ not to speak 
of fields’’; is it because two things would be neglected, resting 
the fields and tithe from the growth? The same would be with 
the houses also, resting, and the neglect of a mazuza? Said R. 
Mesharshia: The mazguza is not an obligation upon the house, 
but upon him who lives in it. 

““In Syria houses,’’ etc. Let us see; why is selling forbid- 
den? Because it is considered as the land of Israel. Why, 
then, is renting permitted? Renting even in Palestine is only 
as a safeguard that one should not come to sell; and a safeguard 
to a safeguard we do not decree. But is not renting fields in 
Syria also a safeguard to a safeguard, and is nevertheless forbid- 
den? This is not considered a safeguard, as the Tana holds that 
the land which was taken away by an individual (not by the 
people of Israel at large) is considered, nevertheless, to be the 
land of Israel. Hence, against fields upon which two things 
would be neglected, as said above, the rabbis decreed; but this 
is not the case with houses. 

““ In Syria houses are permitted,’’ etc. For the just-mentioned 
reasons. ‘‘ RR. Jose... in Palestine, houses,”’ 
the same reason. 

“* In Syria houses sold,’’ etc. It is because he holds that the 
land which was taken by an individual is not considered the 
land of Israel, and, therefore, only against fields they decreed 
for the reasons adduced above, but not against houses. 

‘* Everything may be sold,’’ etc. Because it is far from Pales- 
tine, no decree was rendered. Said R. Jehudah in the name of 
Samuel: The Halakha prevails with R. Jose. Said R. Joseph: 
Provided it does not make a whole neighborhood of heathens. 


etc. Also for . 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). © 39 


And there is a Boraitha: That less than three families is not 
considered a neighborhood. | 

‘* Where renting ts allowed,’’ etc. From this we infer that 
not in every place renting is allowed. Hence, the unnamed 
Mishna is according to R. Mair; as according to R. Jose, rent- 
ing is permitted in every place. 

‘* But not a bath-house,’’ etc. Thereisa Boraitha: R. Simeon 
b. Gimalia said: One must not rent his bath-house to a heathen 
because the bath is named after the owner and the heathen does 
his labor on Sabbath and holidays (and people may think that 
the Israelites themselves do this). But how is it to a Samari- 
tan? It may be rented, although he works on the minor festi- 
vals? On minor festivals, we Israelites also are permitted to 
heat baths. But let us see why it is permitted to rent a field to 
a heathen, although he does labor on Sabbath? Because people 
know that the gardener is doing work for himself. Why not 
say the same concerning a bath-house? It is because usually 
a field is hired to a gardener, which is not the case with bath- 
houses. There is another Boraitha: R. Simeon b. Eliezar: One 
must not rent his field to a Samaritan because it is named after 
him, and the Samaritan works the field during the minor festi- 
vals. But how is it with a heathen? It is allowed, because 
people know that he does it for himself; why not say the same 
concerning a Samaritan? R. Simeon b. Eliezar does not con- 
sider the reason of a gardener at all, and his reason why it is 
allowed to a heathen is that if we tell him that he should not 
work, he will listen to, which is not the case with a Samaritan, 
who thinks that he knows better than we do. There were fields 
of safran in partnership of an Israelite and a heathen; the 
heathen worked on Sabbath and the Israelite on Sunday, and 
Rabha has permitted to do so. Rabbina questioned him from 
the following: ‘‘ An Israelite and a heathen who have hired a 
field in partnership, the Israelite must not say to the heathen: 
You take your share on Sabbath and I on a week day, unless it 
was so stipulated at the time they started. However, when 
they come to make their accounts, it is not permitted to the 
Israelite that he should take his share from the Sabbath labor.”’ 
Rabha became ashamed; thereafter, however, it was announced 
that such was stipulated when the partnership was started. 

The schoolman propounded a question: How is it if there 
was no stipulation? Comeand hear: “‘ If sucha stipulation was 
made at the time when started, it is allowed’’; whence it may 


40 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


be inferred, that if there was no stipulation, it is prohibited. 
But if so, how is the latter part to be understood? ‘‘ When 
they come to make the account, the Israelite must not take his 
share of Sabbath,’’ from which it may be inferred that without 
an account, he may accept it, although there was no stipulation. 
In view of this, from this Boraitha nothing can be taken fora 
support. 


es a ee 


CHAPTER: IE 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING PLACING OF CATTLE WITH 
HEATHENS, ACCEPTING CURE FROM THEM, AND CONCERNING 
THINGS WHICH MAY AND MAY NOT BE BOUGHT FROM THEM. 


MISHNA J/.: Cattle must not be placed in the inns of the 
heathens because they are suspicious of having sexual inter- 
course with them.* And for the same reason a female must not 
stay alone with them, because they are suspected of insult; nor 
should a male stay with them alone, because they are suspected 
of bloodshed. , 

GEMARA: There is acontradiction from the following: One 
may buy from them cattle for sacrificing without fear that it was 
instrumental in the committing of a crime or that it was sepa- 
rated as a sacrifice to an idol, or that it was itself worshipped. 
Now it is correct that there is no fear of its being separated or 
worshipped, for if such were the case, he would not sell it. But 
why should not be feared its said relation to a crime, and they 
not suspected? Said R. Ta’hlipha in the name of R. Shila b. 
Abina, quoting Rabh: With his own cattle, the heathen is not 
suspected, because of his economy that the cattle should not 
become uprooted. This, however, can apply only to female 
cattle; what can be said concerning male cattle? Said R. 
Kahana: Here, also, the same reason may apply, as the cattle 
become meagre from such employment. But why must one not 
place female cattle in the inns which are under the control of 
females? ‘Said Mar Uqua b. Hama: Because the heathens are 
wont to visit the wives of their neighbors, and if such visitor 
happened not to find the hostess, he may substitute the cattle. 





* Voltaire makes rather an exhibit of his ignorance when he mocks the ancient 
Jews, saying (in his Philos. Diction, vol. ii., p. 102) that they were the only nation 
given to this offence, since otherwise the prohibition thereof would have been super- 
fluous. This Mishna as well as the following Gemara justifies the conclusion that 
this offence was rather general and was practiced by non-Jews and even by non- 
Semites at a period much later than the time when the prohibition of the Scripture 
was established. The attention of the reader is called to the eye-witnesses reported 
in the following Gemara. 


41 


42 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


And to the question of the schoolmen: How is the law with 
fowls? R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel, quoting R. Han- 
nina, said: I have seen a heathen who bought a goose in the 
market, sexually intercoursed with it, chopped, roasted and con- 
sumed it, and R. Jeremiah of Diphte said that he had witnessed 
a similar affair by an Arabian. | 

Rabbina said: There is no contradiction between the Bo- 
raitha cited, which does not consider suspicion, and the Mishna 
which does, as the Mishna speaks of starting, which is forbidden 
and the Boraitha speaks of a case which was already done, where 
suspicion is no sufficient basis for forbidding. And whence do 
we know that such difference is considered? From a Mishna 
which states that a woman captured by a heathen because of a 
civil case is allowed to her husband, but not if captured because 
of a criminal case. We see, then, that although our Mishna 
forbids a woman to stay alone with a heathen, yet the act hav- 
ing taken place, she is allowed to return (hence there is a differ- 
ence between starting an act and an act done). But perhaps the 
reason why she is allowed to her husband when captured be- 
cause of a civil case, is that the heathen was afraid to touch her 
lest he lose his money? And such seems to be the case, as the 
second part states: If because of a criminal case, she is not 
allowed; and to this discussion nothing is to be added. R. 
Pdath said: The difference between our Mishna and the Boraitha 
is to be explained thus: The former is in accordance with R. 
Eliezer of a Mishna (par. II. 1), and the Boraitha is in accord- 
ance with the rabbis thereof, as according to the former, the red 
cow must not be bought from a heathen; and according to the 
latter, it may. And the reason is the above suspicion which, 
according to one, is considered, and according to the other, it is 
not. But perhaps there is another reason, as Shila explained. 
The reason of R. Eliezer is, in the following |[Numb. xix. 2]: 
““ Speak unto the children of Israel that they bring urito thee 
a completely red cow,’’ which signifies that the chzldren of Israel 
shall bring, but not other nations? This cannot scarcely be the 
reason, as the latter part states: ‘‘ And so has Eliezer invali- 
dated all the sacrifices which were bought from heathens,’’ to 
which the above reason cannot apply, as concerning them such 
an expression is not used. But perhaps the rabbis differ with 
R. Eliezer concerning the red cow only because of its great 
value, which the heathens would not like to lose; but concern- 
ing other sacrifices, would they agree with R. Eliezer? Nay; 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 43 


in the first place there is a Boraitha: One may buy from them 
cattle for the purpose of sacrificing, which would be neither in 
accordance with the rabbis, nor with R. Eliezer; and secondly, 
it states there plainly: The rabbis have answered to R. Eliezer 
with [Is. lx. 7]: ‘‘ All the flocks of Kedar . . . upon my altar.”’ © 
But is, indeed, ‘* suspicion ’’ the reason of R. Eliezer’s statement; 
is there not a Boraitha: The sages then said to R. Eliezer: We 
know of a case that the red cow was bought from a heathen by 
the name of Dama or Remetz; and he answered: This is no evi- 
dence, as the Israelites had watched over it from the time it was 
created? R. Eliezer’s reason was both—the expression concern- 
ing a red cow cited above, and also “‘ suspicion.”’ 

R. Ami and R. Itz’hak of Naf’ha were sitting on the bal- 
cony at the latter’s. One of them began with the last part cited 
above, ‘‘so has R. Eliezer invalidated all the sacrifices,’’ etc., 
to’which the other quoted that which his colleagues answered 
him, with the above-cited verse, ‘‘ all the flocks of Kedar,’’ etc., 
and R. Eliezer rejoined: This is no evidence either, as the 
‘nations about whom the cited verse reads will all become prose- 
lytes in the future. R. Joseph infers this from [Zeph. iii. 9]: 
‘Yea, then will I change unto the people a pure language, that 
they may all call on the name of the Lord.’’ And to the oppo- 
sition of Abayi R. Joseph: Perhaps it means that they will re- 
pent.from idolatry only? Abayi R. Joseph answered: The verse 
ends with: ‘‘ To serve Him with one accord.’’ So taught R. 
Papa. R. Zebid, however, reverses the order of Abayi R. 
Joseph, adding that both quoted the verse of Zeph. 

It reads [I Sam. vi. 12]: “‘ And the cows went straight for- 
ward,’’* etc. What does this expression mean? Said R. Jo- 
hanan in the name of R. Mair: They sang a song. And R. 
Zuthra b. Tubiah, in the name of Rabh: They have straightened 
their faces to look upon the ark, and sang a song. What song 
was it? R. Johanan inthe name of R. Mair [Ex. xv. 1]: “‘ Then 
sang Moses,’’ etc. And R. Johanan himself said [Is. xii. 4]: 
“ And ye shall say on that day, Give thanks unto the Lord, call 
on his name,’’ etc. And R. Simeon b. Lakish said [Psalm 
xcviii. 1, 2]: ‘“ Oh sing unto the Lord a new song; for he hath 
done wonderful things; his right hand and his holy arm have 
gotten him the victory. (2) The Lord hath made known his 
salvation, before the eyes of the nations hath he revealed his 





* The term in Hebrew is vaysharnha, and song in Hebrew is shira., 


44 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


righteousness.’” And R. Elazar said [ibid. xcix. 1]: ‘‘ The 
Lord reigneth,’’ etc. And R. Samuel b. Na’hmani [ibid. xciii. 
1]; and R. Itzchak of Naf’ha said: They sang: Sing, sing, thou 
ark, arise in this great journey thou that art decorated with 
golden embroidery which is placed in the great palace, adorned 
with the best ornaments. R. Ashi taught the saying of R. 
Itz’hak to [Numb. x. 35]: “‘ And it came to pass, when the ark 
set forward that Moses said,’’ etc. And what did Israel say? 
The above that R. Itz’hak said: It reads [Jos. x. 13]: “‘ And 
the sun stood still . . . written in the book of Yashar.’’ What 
is the book of Yashar? Said R. Hyya b. Aba in the name of 
R. Johanan: The book in which the birth of Abraham, Isaac 
and Jacob, who are named Josharim (the upright) is meant, as 
it reads [Numb. xxiii. 10]: ‘“‘ May my soul die the death of the 
righteous.’’ And where is the hint to be found there [Gen. 
xlviii. 19]: ‘‘ And his seed shall become a multitude of nations.”’ 
This occurred when Jehoshua “‘ stopped the sun.’’ [Jos. x. 13]: 
‘* And the sun stood still in the midst of the heavens, and hast- 
ened not to go down about a whole day.’’ How many hours? 
Said R. Jehoshua b. Levi: Twenty-four; it was running six and 
stopped six, running six, and stopped six, four times; R. Elazar 
said: Thirty-six, it ran six and stopped twelve, etc. Samuel b. 
Na’hmani said: Forty-eight, it ran six and stopped twelve; ran 
six and stopped twenty-four. According to others, the above 
differ in the additional hours of that day. There is a Boraitha: 
As the sun stopped for Joshua, so did it stop for Moses, etc. 
(See Taanith, p. 52. The rabbis taught the whole paragraph.) 
An objection was raised from [ibid., ibid. 14]: “‘ And there was 
no day like that before it or after it’’? If you wish, in the time 
of Moses it stopped for fewer hours, or if you wish, it may be 
said that in Moses’ time there were no hailstones mentioned 
[ibid., ibid. 11]. 

It reads [II Sam. i. 18]: ‘* The bow, behold it is written in 
the book of Yashar.’’ (What does Yashar mean? Said R. 
’Hyye b. Aba in the name of R. Johanan: ‘* Genesis’’ as said 
above.) And where the allusion? [Gen. xlix. 8]: ‘‘ Thy hand 
shall be on the neck of thy enemies.’’ Which is the weapon 
that needs the hand against the neck? It is the bow. R.— 
Eliezer, however, maintains that the book of Yashar means 
Deuteronomy. And why is it named Yashar? Because there 
is written [vi. 18]: ‘‘ And thou shalt do that which is right 
(Yashar) and good in the eyes of the Lord.’’ And where is the 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 45 


allusion? [xxxiii. 7]: ‘‘ Let the power of his hands.’’ And 
which is the weapon to which both hands are needed? The 
bow. R. Samuel b. Na’hmani said: It is the book of Judges in 
which [xvii. 6]: ‘“‘ Every man did what seemed right (Yashar) 
in his eyes. And where is the allusion? [iii. 2]: ‘‘ To teach 
them war.’’ And to which weapon, teaching is needed? The 
bow. 

‘A woman must not stay alone,’’ etc. Let us see how is the 
case? If it means she must not stay alone with one heathen, is 
this, then, allowed with an Israelite? Is there not a Mishna: 
One must not stay alone even with two women? And if it 
means she should not stay with even three of them, is there a 
similar case allowed with three licentious Israelites? Is there 
not a Mishna: A woman may stay with two persons? And 
Jehuda, in the name of Samuel said: Provided they are right- 
eous men, but, if they were licentious, even if they would be 
ten, she must not, as it once happened that a woman was alone 
with ten and was insulted. It means even when his wife is with 
him. As to Israelite’s, his wife guards him, which is not the 
case with a heathen. But why not say that because they are 
suspected of bloodshed? Said R. Jeremiah: It speaks of a re- 
spectable woman whom they feared to kill. R. Idi, however, 
maintains that there is no fear of bloodshed, even with any 
woman, for usually her weapons are upon her (they insult, but 
do not kill). And what is the difference between the two rea- 
sons? If the woman was respected by the government, but not 
among her colleagues, then, according to R. Jeremiah, there is 
no fear for bloodshed, but of insult, and according to R. Idi the 
same is the case with any woman. And there isa Boraitha in 
accordance with R. Idi—viz.: A woman, although her weapon 
is usually with her, must nevertheless not stay alone with 

heathens, because they are suspected of insult. 
— * ** A male must not stay alone,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: If 
an Israelite while on the road, happened to be accompanied by 
a heathen, he should so manage that the heathen should be on 
his right hand. Ismael b. R. Johanan b. Broka, however, said: 
If the heathen was provided with a sword, the Israelite shall 
manage that he shall be on his right side, and if with a cane, on 
_ his left side (so that it shall be easier for the Israelite to protect 
himself). If they have to ascend or to descend, the Israelite 
must not be on the bottom and the heathen on the top, but the 
contrary. Nor shall the Israelite bend himself in the heathen’s 


46 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


presence, for fear the heathen may break his skull. If the 
heathen question him to what place he goes, he shall make the 
distance longer as did Jacob our father to Esau the wicked [Gen. 
xxxiii. 14]: ‘‘ Until I come unto my Lord to Se’ir.’” And (17) 
reads: ‘‘ And Jacob journeyed to Succoth’’ (which was much 
nearer than Se’ir). It happened to the disciples of R. Agqiba 
while on the road, to meet robbers, who questioned them, Where 
are you going? And they answered, To Akhau. However, 
when they reached the City of Khzib they separated. The rob- 
bers then questioned them, Whose disciples are you? And they 
answered, Of R. Akiba. To which the robbers rejoined, Well 
is to Akiba with his disciples, who are careful not to be afflicted 
by bad men. R. Mnashi was on the road to the City of 
Thurtha and he met thieves, who asked him where he was going, 
and he said, To Pumbadithe. When they reached Thurtha he 
separated from them. Said they, You must be a disciple of 
Jehuda the deceiver. To which he rejoined, Do you know him 
(R. Jehuda) and dare to call him deceiver? I put you under 
ban. The thieves then engaged in thievery for thirty-two years, 
but did not succeed, so that they were afterward compelled to 
come to R. Mnashi asking for a release. One of them, who 
was a weaver, did not care to come to ask for a release, and was 
finally devoured by a lion. Come and see the difference be- 
tween the thieves of Babylon and the robbers of Palestine (the 
latter had praised the disciples who separated from them, and 
the former scolded him). 

MISHNA //,: A daughter of an Israelite must not confine 
a heathen, because she confines a person to idolatry; however, 
a heathen may confine an Israelite. The same is the case with 
nursing, an Israelite must not nurse the child of a heathen, 
while the latter, being under the control of the former, may 
do so. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: One must not confine a 
heathen because she brought up a person to idolatry, nor must 
a heathen confine an Israelite, because they are suspected of 
bloodshed; so R. Mair. The sages, however, say: The latter 
may, in the presence of others, but not when she is alone in the 
confinement. R. Mair, however, does not allow this because 
she may put her hand on the skull of the child and kill it, while 
the others standing by would not notice it. As it happened, a 
heathen woman who reproached her colleague of being a Jew— 
confiner—daughter of a Jew confiner, and she answered: Is it 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 47 


not sufficient the injury I have done to the Jews by decreasing 
them, killing their children at the birth, and I shed their blood 
like water. The rabbis, however, maintained that this counts 
for nothing, as she boasted only. | 

‘“* An Israelite must not nurse,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: One 
must not nurse a child of a heathen, because she brings up a 
person to idolatry, neither must a heathen woman nurse a Jewish 
child, because she is suspected of bloodshed; so R. Mair. The 
sages, however, say the latter might do so in the presence of 
others, but not when she is alone with the child. R. Mair, how- 
ever, maintains that even in the presence of others she may smear 
the breasts with poison and kill the child, while the others present 
will not notice it. A contradiction was raised from the follow- 
ing: A Jewess may confine a heathen for the reward but not 
gratuitously? Said R. Joseph: For reward it is permissible, in 
order to avoid animosities. The rabbis taught: An Israelite may 
circumcise the child of a heathen for the purpose of proselytism, 
but not for the purpose of curing, and a heathen must not do 
so to an Israelite because he is suspected of bloodshed. The 
sages, however, maintain that the latter may do so in the pres- 
ence of Israelites, but not when he is alone with the child. 
Does indeed R. Mair hold that a heathen must not circumcise 
an Israelite? Is there not a Boraitha: A city in which there is 
no Jewish physician but a Samaritan and a heathen, the heathen 
shall circumcise and not the Samaritan; so R. Mair. R. Jehuda, 
however, maintains the converse, that the Samaritan should have 
the preference? Reverse the names in the cited Boraitha; but 
how can you say that Jehuda permits a heathen to do the cir- 
cumcision? Is there not a Boraitha: R. Jehuda said: Whence 
do we know that a circumcision which was performed by a 
heathen is invalid? From [Gen. xvii. 9]: ‘‘ But thou, for thy 
part, shalt keep my covenant’’ (which means thou and not a 
heathen). Therefore, the names in the above-cited Boraitha are 
correctly placed and must not be reversed, as it speaks of an 
established physician, who would not spoil his reputation by 
doing harm to an Israelite, as R. Dimi, when he came from 
Palestine, said in the name of R. Johanan: That an established 
heathen physician may be trusted to do everything for an Israel- 
ite. But how can you say that R. Jehuda permits a Samaritan 
to circumcise an Israelite? Is there not a Boraitha: An Israel- 
ite may circumcise a heathen, but a Samaritan must not do so 
to an Israelite, because he is doing this in the name of his idol 


48 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


in the Mount Gerism. And R. Jose said to him: Where do we 
find that circumcision must be done in the name of Heaven, etc. 
(hence, we see that R. Jehuda does not permit a Samaritan). 
Therefore we must say that the names of the Boraitha in ques- 
tion are to be reversed, and the contradiction from one state- 
ment of R. Jehuda to the other presents no difficulty, as R. 
Jehuda of the contradictory Boraitha means R. Jehuda the 
prince, whom we heard stating elsewhere just the same as the 
Boraitha teaches. 

It was taught: Whence do we know that a circumcision 
made by a heathen is invalid? Daru b. Papa in the name of 
Rabh said: From the above-cited verse [Gen. xvii. 9], and R. 
Johanan maintains from [ibid., ibid. 13]. And what is the dif- 
ference between them? If a woman is commanded to circumcise 
her child, according to Rabh she is not, and according to R. 
Johanan she is. But is there one who holds that a woman is 
not commanded to circumcise, does it not read [Ex. iv. 25]: 
‘Then took Zipporah a sharp instrument,’’ etc.? Well, she 
has done this through a messenger; or, if you wish, it may be 
said that she began and Moses himself finished. 

MISHNA ///.: One may employ their (the heathens’) ser- 
vices for curing his personal property, but not for curing the 
body. However, cutting hair by them is prohibited at any 
place; so R. Mair. The sages, however, maintain: One may 
do so in a public place, but not when he is alone with him. 

GEMARA: What do personal property and body mean? 
The former is, ¢.g., his cattle, and body means human being. 
And this is what R. Jehudah said: No imperfection, not even 
so much as the mark of bleeding, must be taken from them. 
Said R. Hisda in the name of Mar Ugqba: If, however, the 
heathen said to him that such and such a medicine is good, and 
such and such is bad, he may use his advice, since the heathen 
thinks: as he asks me, so will he ask some other one, and should 
I give him wrong advice, I would be ridiculed. Rabba, accord- 
ing to others, R. ’Hisda, in the name of R. Johanan said: If 
there is a doubt as to whether the sick will recover or die, the 
heathen must not be taken for curing, but if it is certain that 
he will die, it is allowed. But why let it be feared, perhaps he 
will foster his death? This is not to be taken in consideration. 
And whence do we know that so it is? From [II Kings, vii. 9]: 
““ If we say, We will enter into the city, then is the famine in 
the city, and we will die’’; and they did not take into consider- 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 49 


ation that should they fall in the hands of the enemy, they 
would be killed immediately. An objection was raised from the 
following: One must not interfere with the Minim and must 
not cure himself by them, even to delay death for but a few 
hours. <a 

As it happened to ben Dama, the son of Ismael’s sister, to 
be bitten by a snake, Jacob, of the village of Skhania, came to 
heal him with the name of Jesus, but R. Ismael did not allow. 
The patient, however, said to him: Ismael, my brother, let him 
cure me and I will bring you evidence from the Scripture that 
such is allowed. But ere he finished his soul departed, and R. 
Ismael exclaimed: Well is to thee, ben Dama, that thy body 
was pure and thy soul left thee in purity, and thou hast not 
transgressed the decision of thy colleagues, who say [ Eccles. vii]: 
‘“Him who breaketh down a fence—a serpent will bite him.”’ 
With Minismus it is different, as it is attractive and “‘ he may be 
induced to follow them.’’ But what has ben Dama to say? 
[Lev. xviii, 5]: ‘‘ And he shall live with them,’’ but not he shall 
die with them. R. Ismael, however, maintains that such is 
allowed only privately, but not in public; as we have learned in 
the following Boraitha: R. Ismael used to say: Whence do we 
know that if one is told to worship idols, under the threat of 
being killed, that he may worship and not be killed? From the 
above-cited verse—‘‘ he shall live,’’ etc. But lest one say that 
this may be done publicly also, therefore it is written [ibid. xxii. 
32]: ‘‘ And ye shall not profane my holy name.’’ Rabba b. b. 
Hanna in the name of R. Johanan said: A wound inside the 
body must not be cured by them. R. Johanan, however, when 
he suffered from scurvy, went to a matron of Rome for a cure 
(see Tract Yomah, p. 128, par. “‘ R. Mathiah b. Hersha,’’ the 
whole story, 229, par. ““ Whatsoever). But how did R. Johanan 
do so? Was it not said that an infliction which is inside the 
body must not be cured, etc? With a well-known man, like R. 
Johanan, it is different, as they will fear to harm him. But was 
not R. Abuhu a well-known man, and Jacob the Minn prepared 
a medicine for him to place on his shoulder, and if not for R. 
Ami and R. Assi, who burnt (cauterized) his shoulder to get the 
poison out, he would have died? Yet with R. Johanan it is dif- 
ferent, as he himself was an established physician. But was not 
R. Abuhu also the same? As the latter was very much re- 
spected by the government, and was badly annoying the Minim 
by his frequent discussions, he (Jacob the Min) made up his 


50 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


mind to do with him what Samson did [Judges, xvi. 30]: “Let 
me die with the Philistines.”’ 

Samuel said: An open wound (sabre cut) is dangerous, and 
one may violate the Sabbath for the purpose of curing it. The 
remedy to stop the blood is, cress-dishes mixed with vinegar, of 
which the patient shall partake. R.Saphra said: An enabta 
(carbuncle?) is a forerunner of the angel of death. How is it 
cured? Put upon it a rue (plant) with honey, or radishes with 
strong wine. While these remedies are being prepared, put 
meanwhile on the sore a white or red grape according as the 
sore is white or red. Rabba said: A tumor is a sure symptom 
of inflammation. And what is the remedy against the tumor? 
Hit upon it with the fingers sixty times, then open it crosswise. 
If, however, the tumor has a white spot on the top, all this is 
not necessary, as it is not dangerous then. 

R. Jacob suffered from pain in the abdomen, and R. Ami, 
according to others R. Assi, advised him to take seven red 
grains usually found in the wash-houses, to put them in the 
linen collar of an old shirt, which he should bind with a cord 
made of the hair of a cattle; then he should immerse it in white 
pitch and burn it, the ashes thereof he should apply to the sore 
place and relief will ensue. While the preparation of this is 
going on, he may meanwhile apply the kernels of blackberries. 
This remedy, however, is effective only in case of external pains; 
for internal abdominal pains grease the sore place with the 
molten fat of a goat that has not yet born any offspring, or burn 
three pumpkin leaves dried in the shade and apply the ashes; 
also almond-worms or olive-oil and wax may be applied, in sum- 
mer on linen, in winter on cotton. 

R. Abuhu suffered once from an ear-ache, and R. Johanan 
advised him, according to others he was told in the college, 
what R. Abayi, too, heard later from his mother, that the loins 
have been created only for curing ear-ache. In like manner 
said Rabba: I was told by the physician, Miniumi, that all fluids 
are injurious to the ear, except the water from the loins. Thus, 
take the kidney of a woolless sheep, cut it crosswise, place it on 
burning coals and collect the water that begins then to flow 
from it. This water, when it is neither too cold nor too warm, 
syringe into the ears. Or one may rub in the ears with the 
molten fat of a big chafer. The following is another good 
remedy for ear-ache: Fill the sick ear with olive-oil, then make 
of wheat-straw seven wicks, and with the hairs of a cattle attach 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). SI 


to them the peel of garlic; kindle these wicks and put them 
- into the olive-oil in the ear, taking, of course, precautions 
against burning the patient; when one wick has been thus burnt 
to the end, take the next one, etc., until the pains cease. How- 
ever, seven ordinary wicks would also do, if dipped in hayseed- 
oil (7); but in this case one must be heedful of the wind. Here 
is yet another remedy: Put into the ear dyed unbeaten cotton 
and, taking heed of the wind, keep the ear over the fire. Also 
this remedy is recommendable: Take a rush that was cut down 
one hundred years ago, fill it with mineral salt, burn all this and 
strew the ashes in the ears. It must also be noted that for 
secreting ears the remedies must be dry, while for aching ears 
that do not secrete, moist remedies must be used. 

Rabha b. Zutra said in the name of R. Hanina: It is allowed 
. to straighten the ears on Sabbath. Observed R. Samuel b. 
Jehudah: Provided it is done with the hand and not with medi- 
cine. According to others the converse is allowed, 2.¢., to 
straighten the ears on Sabbath by means of medicine and not by 
the hands, for it is to be feared that with the hand one may 
make a wound. 

R. Zutra b. Tubia said in the name of Rabh: He who is in 
danger of losing an eye is allowed to accept cure on Sabbath. 
This, however, was understood to be allowed only when the 
medicine was prepared defore Sabbath; but to prepare it on 
Sabbath and carry it through the public grounds is not allowed. 
Hereupon said one of the rabbis, named R. Jacob: I have heard 
it from R. Jehudah that it is allowed under the said circum- 
stances to prepare the medicine on Sabbath and carry it through 
the public streets. R. Jehudah allowed to cure eye-diseases on 
Sabbath. Thereupon said R. Samuel b. Jehudah: Who will 
listen to this R. Jehudah who thus profanesthe Sabbath? But it 
happened that he himself got sore eyes, and he sent to consult 
the same (R. Jehudah) as to whether or no it is allowed (to 
cure them on Sabbath)? And the answer came back: Every- 
body is allowed, but not you (who were so indignant at my 
decision); was it, you think, my own opinion? Nay; it was the 
master, Samuel, whose servant got an inflamed eye on Sabbath; 
she cried the whole day and none paid attention to her, and on 
the morrow her eye jumped out of its orbit; then said the mas- 
ter, Samuel, in his sermon: It is allowed to cure on Sabbath 
eye-diseases if there be danger of losing one’s eye; and why? 
Because the optic nerves are dependent on the heart. 


52 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


What kind of eye-diseases is allowed to cure on Sabbath? 
Said R. Jehudah: A secreting eye, a wounded eye, an eye cov- 
ered with blood, and an inflamed eye. In the beginning of the 
sickness as well as during its becoming better, it is not allowed 
to apply medicine on Sabbath; nor is it allowed to use on Sab- 
bath such medicine as would tend to sharpen the eye-sight. 

R. Jehudah said: The sting of a wasp, the pricking of thorns, 
if the wounds caused by either are swelling, likewise an eye- 
disease complicated with fever, are all dangerous. The high 
temperature in these cases must, therefore, be reduced by the 
application of radishes, while low temperature is banished by 
that of sea-radishes; to apply the one for the other entails dan- 
ger. The sting of a lizard must be cured with warm medicines, 
while that of a hornet with cold ones; to reverse the medicines, 
the one for the other, also here entails danger. Likewise are 
recommendable warm medicines for the pricks of thorns, and 
cold ones for the chapped skin; to reverse is dangerous. 

He who had his blood let should not eat almonds, nor sit 
near the fire. He who has diseased eyes should not have his 
blood let, for it is in this condition dangerous. After eating 
fish one should wait two days before having his blood let; and 
after bleeding one should not eat fish fortwo days. Fish on 
the third day after bleeding is harmful. 

The rabbis taught: After bleeding one should not eat milk, 
cheese, onions, almonds; but if one has carelessly eaten some 
of these, he should, according to Abaye, drink a little wine 
mixed with vinegar. But in this case, one must go outside of 
the city for his natural exigencies, and notably toward the east, 
in order that the ill odor might not reach the city (being carried 
off by the east wind). 

R. Jehoshua b. Levi said: It is allowed to cure on Sabbath 
the onkly. What is onkly? Said R. Aba: It is the stomachus 
of the heart (or the fleshy valve of the heart, called mzd/a). And 
how is this disease cured? By an ointment prepared of cumin, 
soap, mint (fern), wormwood, cedar-blossom and hyssop. All 
these are to be dissolved in wine, and is good for the heart; your 
sign is [Psalm, civ. 15]: ‘‘ Wane gladdens the human heart.”’ 
Against flatulence (mach) use the same, but dissolved in water; 
your sign is [Gen. i. 3]: ‘‘ And the wind (mach) of the Lord 
flits over the water.’’ Against pains in the uterus (4uda) use 
the same dissolved in beer, and your sign is [ibid. xxiv. 15]: 
‘* She had her pitcher (Auadah) on her shoulder.’’ 


a RI ieee ig Si, at : 
' s) ~e ae =, eee —_ S 
eee ee ee ee a7 .* ~ {<7 ae i - 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 53 


R. Aha b. Rabba prepared of the above herbs a powder of 
which he dissolved about a handful and drank it. R. Asha used 
to prepare a powder of each of these herbs and drink a dose 
from each. Said R. Papa: I had tried all this but without avail, 
until an Arabian merchant advised me to fill a new pitcher with 
water, put therein a spoonful of honey, leave, then, all this in 
the open air over night and drink it next morning; I have done 
so, and it really helped me. 

The sages taught: Six things are good for all diseases, and 
they are as follows: green colewort, sea-radishes, the water from 
dry szsez (a Syrian plant), the stomach, the uterus (of cattle), 
and the raw meat of a cow. Other sages add yet small fishes, 
which possess besides medicinal yet the property of making one 
fecund and robust. Furthermore, ten things there are that are 
detrimental to the sick—viz.: meat of an ox, fat, roasted meat, 
poultry, roasted eggs, almonds, a hair-cut, a bath, cheese, and 
liver. Others add yet nuts and gourds. 

The disciples of R. Ismael taught: Why are gourds called 
keshuin (heavy)? Because they are as harmful and heavy to the 
human body as daggers. 

‘“* And cutting hatr.’’ The Rabbis taught: An Israelite who 
cuts his hair by a heathen, may look in the looking-glass (so 
that the heathen shall be afraid to kill him). An Israelite who 
cuts the hair of a heathen, when reaching the surrounding of his 
hair, which is usually for the purpose of worshipping the idol, may 
drop his work. The master said: An Israelite who cuts his hair 
by a heathen shall look in the looking-glass. Let us see how is 
the case: If it was in public then to what purpose is the looking- 
glass, and if privately, what can the looking-glass help (if the 
heathen would like to kill him suddenly)? It means privately; 
but as soon as he has a looking-glass in his work-shop, it seems 
to be a respectable place, so that there is no fear of killing. R. 
’Hana b..Bizna used to cut his hair by a heathen, in the by- 
streets of N’hardea. Atone time he said to him, ’Hana, ’Hana, 
thou hast a fine neck for the shears. Said he: I may take this 
as a punishment for not following R. Mair’s decision. (Says 
the Gemara): Did he then follow the decision of the rabbis? 
The rabbis also permitted in public only, but not privately. He 
thought that the sideways of Nahardea are considered public, 
as many people pass there. 

MISHNA J/V.: The following things of the heathens are 
prohibited, and the prohibition extends even to the deriving of 


54 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


any benefit therefrom—viz.: wine, vinegar, and pieces of wine 
extract, and skins in which there are holes opposite the heart. 
R. Simeon b. Gamaliel adds: Provided the hole is made round, 
but not if lengthwise. Meat which is entered for the idol is not 
prohibited, but which comes out of it is prohibited, as it is 
equivalent to the offerings of the dead. Such is the decree of 
R. Agiba. With pilgrims while going for worship one must not 
interfere, but with those who are coming from, one may. - 

The bags of the heathens, the pitchers which contain wine of 
an Israelite, are forbidden to derive any benefit from them. So 
R. Mair. The sages, however, maintain: They are forbidden, 
but not to dérive benefit. The pressed grapes of which wine 
was made as well as their kernels are prohibited for any benefit. 
So R. Mair. The sages, however, forbid only the wet ones, but 
not the dry ones. Fish-oil and cheese of the village Aunyiki 
made by the heathens are, according to R. Mair, prohibited for 
any benefit, and according to the sages the using is prohibited, 
but not the benefit. Said R. Jehudah: R. Ismael questioned 
R. Jehoshua while they were on the road: Why have the sages 
prohibited the cheese of the heathens, and he answered: Be- 
cause they use the rennet of a carcass to curdle milk. Said 
he to him: The rennet of a burnt-offering is more rigorous than 
of a carcass, and nevertheless a priest, who is not so particular, 
consumes it while raw. This, however, the sages did not admit, 
but even they allow no benefit therefrom, although its use, when 
made, is no transgression. Answered R. Jehoshua: The pro- 
hibition was because they curdle their milk with the rennet of 
the calves, which was sacrificed to the idol. Thereupon rejoined 
R. Ismael: Hf such is the case, why was not prohibited all bene- 
fit thereof? R. Jehoshua, however, was not prepared to answer 
him this question, and called his attention to another thing: 
Ismael, my brother, how do you read ({[Solomon’s song, 1, 2]) 
Thy caresses? And he answered: I read thy as masculine. 
To which Jehoshua answered: It is not so, as further on (3) it 
reads feminine, and this is evidence that also verse 2d uses thy 
in the feminine. 

GEMARA: Whence is it deduced that wine is prohibited? 
Said Rabba b. Abuhu from [Deut. xxxii. 38]: ‘‘ They that ate 
the fat of their sacrifices, and drank the wine of their drink- 
offerings,’’ z.e., as from a sacrifice no benefit must be derived, 
the same is the case with wine. And whence do we know that 
such is the case with a sacrifice itself? From [Psalm cvi. 28]: 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 55 


‘‘ And they joined themselves unto Ba’-al-pe’or, and ate the 
sacrifice of the dead,’’ hence, as from a dead one no benefit 
must be derived, so is it with a sacrifice. But whence does it 
follow that no benefit is to be derived from a dead? From the 
analogy of expression “‘ there,’’ which is to be found in [ Numb. 
xx. 1]: ‘‘ And Miriam died there,’’ and in [ Deut. xxi. 4]: “‘ And 
shall break there,’’ hence, as from the latter no benefit must be 
derived, the same is the case with a dead. But whence do we 
know that so is the case with the heifer? Said the disciples of 
R. Janai, in verse 8 of that passage it is mentioned: ‘‘ Atone 
for thy people,’’ etc., and from the sacrifices which atone, it is 
known no benefit must be derived. 

. ‘* Wine-vinegar,’’ etc. Is this not self-evident, that because 
the wine becomes sour the prohibition no longer holds? Said 
R. Ashi: It comes to teach that if there was sour vinegar in the 
hands of the heathens, there is no necessity to seal it with two 
seals, one on the top of the other as it is necessary for wine; and 
the reason is that the heathens do not offer vinegar to the idols, 
nor is the fear, perhaps they will change it, to be taken into 
consideration, as it is to be supposed that the heathen will not 
trouble himself to break the seal for this purpose. Said R. Ilai: 
We have learned elsewhere that cooked wine of the heathens is 
prohibited, and to the objection that this is self-evident, as the 
prohibition is not annulled by cooking, R. Ashi said: It means 
to teach us that our cooked wine seals with one seal, and in the 
possession of a heathen is valid for the reason stated above. 

The rabbis taught: Cooked wine and aluntith (oil wine) of 
the heathens are prohibited; however, an, aluntith of an Israel- 
ite when in the possession of a heathen is allowed. As we have 
learned concerning Sabbath the difference between oil-wine and 
honey wine (see Sabbath, p. 316, par. ‘“‘ One may make honey 
wine’’). Rabba and R. Joseph both said: Wine mixed with 
water is not affected when it remains uncovered overnight, and 
to cooked wine, the prohibition of offering-wine does not apply. 

The schoolman propounded a question: How is it with 
cooked wine? Does the uncovering ‘affect it or not? Come and 
hear: Jacob b. Ibi has testified that the case of uncovering does 
not apply to cooked wine. 

R. Janai b. Ismael once took sick and R. Ismael b. Zirud 
and the rabbis came to make him a sick-call, and while sitting 
there they questioned if the case of uncovery applies to cooked 
wine. Said Ismael b. Zirud to them: Resh Lakish said in the 


56 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


name of a great man, who is R. Hyye, that to such the case of 
uncovery does not apply. And to their question as to the valid- 
ity of this Halakha, R. Janai b. Ismael made a gesture with his 
hand as if saying, “‘ upon me and my neck.”’ 

Samuel and Ablat were sitting together, and cooked wine 
was brought for them. The latter, who was a heathen, removed 
his hand in order not to touch the wine and make it unvalid. 
Said Samuel to him: It was already said that concerning cooked 
wine no fear of offering is to be entertained. 

The servant of R. Hyye had uncovered cooked wine and she 
came to ask her master, to which he answered, it was decided: 
to cooked wine no uncovering applies. The servant of Ada 
b. A’habah had uncovered the mixture of wine and came 
to ask his master if it is valid, to which he answered: It is 
decided that the case of uncovering does not apply to mixed 
wine. Said R. Papa to him: Provided the wine is mixed 
with much water, but if. not, the snake drinks of it, hence 
such is affected by uncovery. Is that so? It happened with 
Rabba b. R. Huna, who was on a boat and had wine with 
him. Once, perceiving a snake coming to partake of it, he said 
to his servant: Blind the eye of this by making the wine unfit. 
And he took a little water and put it in the wine; the snake 
then turned back. The answer is that for raw wine the snake 
usually risks his life to get it, which he does not do for mixed 
wine. 

But was it not told of R. Janai or Bar Hedia who, while in the 
City of Akhburi, saw the people there drink mixed wine, the 
remainder of which they put in a pitcher, covered it with cloth, 
and put it aside; then they saw a snake putting water into the 
pitcher until it became full, and then drinking the wine which 
was coming up to the top of the water (hence you see that a 
snake drinks out of mixed). The explanation is that it may 
drink from that which is mixed by itself, but not from that 
which is mixed by some one else. Said R. Ashi, according to 
others, Mesharshia: Should one rely upon suppositions in a case 
which is dangerous? (Therefore there is no difference between 
mixed and raw wine; neither must be used if it was uncovered, 
for fear that a snake drank from it.) Said Rabba: The Halakha 
prevails thus: to mixed wine both uncovering and offering 
apply, while to cooked wine neither applies. 

The servant of R. ’Helkiha b. Tubi had uncovered a kzsta of 
water and fell asleep nearby; when he came to ask his master if 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 57 


this water may be used, he answered: The snakes are said to 
fear a sleeping man, provided it is in the day-time, but not at 
night. (Said the Gemara): In reality it is not so. The suppo- 
sition that a snake fears a sleeping man is not substantiated, 
and the time makes no difference, whether day or night. Rabh 
vowed not to drink water at the house of Gentiles, saying: They 
are not careful to cover the water, but in the house of a widow 
he drank, saying that although she does not know the Halakha 
of uncovering, she nevertheless uses it, because she did so while 
her husband was alive. Samuel, however, used to do the con- 
trary. Ata widow’s house he would not drink, saying that, as 
she is without her husband, she usually does not care to cover; 
while the Gentiles, although not particular in covering, are at 
least particular in cleanliness, and they cover the water that 
nothing should fall in and spoilit. According to others Samuel 
did not drink even from the last. R. Jehoshua b. Levy said: 
There are three kinds of wine to which the case of uncovering 
does not apply—viz.: (2) wine that is both sweet and bitter; 
(4) that is so strong that it breaks each leather bag, and (c) wine 
that will become sweet when warmed in the sun. Rabha said: 
To wine which begins to become sour the first three days, both 
cases of uncovery and offering apply, but if after three days, 
neither case applies. The sages of Nahardea said that even in 
the latter case uncovery applies, as it happens sometimes that 
a snake drinks such. 

The rabbis taught: To fermenting wine no uncovery applies; 
and for how many days is it considered fermented? For three 
days. Nor does it apply to cress-dish (chopped cress mixed 
with wine or oil). However, the men of exile consider uncover- 
ing also here, provided in the mixture vinegar was not used. To 
Babylonian Khutha’h it does not apply; however, the men of 
exile do apply it. 

Said R. Menashi: If there are traces of snake bites in it, it 
must not be used. Hyah b. Ashi in the name of Samuel said: 
To dripping water uncovering does not apply. Added R. Ashi: 
Provided the dripping is constant. Samuel said: To the open- 
ing of a fig when it is torn off, uncovering does not apply, and 
this is in accordance with R. Eliezer in the following Boraitha, 
who says: One may eat grapes and figs at night without fear, as 
it reads [Psalm cxvi. 6]: ‘‘ The Lord preserveth the simple.’’ 
R. Saffra said in the name of R. Jehoshua of Rome: There are 
three kinds of poison coming from the mouth of the snake: 


58 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


that of a young one sinks, of a middle-aged, remains in the mid- 
dle, and of an old one, floats on the top. Shall we assume that 
the snake becomes weaker as it grows older, in spite of this 
Boraitha: There are three who become stronger as they grow 
older—viz: a fish, a snake, and a pig? Yea, their strength is 
stronger, but the poison is weaker. But to what purpose is the 
teaching that ‘‘ from a young one it sinks,’’ etc.? To that we 
have learned in the following Boraitha: From a barrel which 
became uncovered, although nine persons drank from it and re- 
mained alive, the tenth person must not drink, as it once hap- 
pened that nine men drank from such and did not die, the tenth, 
however, drank and died; and R. Jeremiah said: That was 
because the poison sank and was at the bottom. The same is 
the case with a melon, which became uncovered; one must not 
partake of it even if nine persons before him partook of it and 
were not harmed, as it once happened that nine were not 
harmed and the tenth, who partook of it, died. 

The rabbis taught: One must not pour water which has been 
uncovered in the public streets, and must not water cattle with 
it. The rabbis taught: One must not pour uncovered water 
into public grounds, nor wetten therewith one’s own house, nor 
knead clay, or water one’s own or the neighbor’s cattle therewith, 
nor wash his face, hands, or feet therewith. But, have we not 
learned in another Boraitha that he may water his ow cattle with 
it? This means but his cat, as the poison of a snake does not 
harmacat, whichdevoursasnake. Butifso, why not water with 
it the cat of his neighbor? Because it becomes meagre, and his 
neighbor might want to sell it at that time. His own, however, 
he may, because in time it recovers and becomes fat again. 

R. Assi in the name of R. Johanan, quoting R. Jehudah b. 
Bathyra, said: There are three kinds of wine which are pro- 
hibited: 

From that which was sacrificed to the idol, one must derive 
no benefit, and its size of an olive defiles a rigorous defilement 
him who touches it. Wine of the heathen in general (about 
which it is not certain that it was sacrificed) is also forbidden to 
derive any benefit, and the size of a quarter of a ‘‘ lug’’ defiles 
just as other beverages which do not defile men and vessels by 
touching. But from the wine which was deposited with a 
heathen by an Israelite benefit may be derived, but to drink it 
is forbidden. But is there not a Mishna: Fruit deposited with 
a heathen are considered as the heathen’s, concerning tithe on 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 59 


the Sabbathical year? It speaks of the case when the heathen 
has separated a corner for the wine deposited. But if so, why 
is it forbidden to drink? We are aware of the following: R. 
Johanan happened to be in the city Prud (the place where Bar 
Kapahara was residing), and he asked: Is someone aware of the 
teaching of Bar Kapahara which would be new to me? And R. 
Tau’hum of the same city taught before him: If one has depos- 
ited his wine with a heathen, he may drink it. To which R. 
Johanan applied [Eccles. xi. 3]: ‘‘ On the place where the tree 
falleth, it will remain,’’ z.¢., although the sage is dead, his fruit 
(teaching) remains. Hence we see that even to drink the wine 
is allowed? Said R. Zera: This presents no difficulty. R. 
Johanan is in accordance with R. Eliezer, who permits the drink- 
ing also (Sabbath, p. 263), while the Boraitha is in accordance 
with the sages who do not. R. Hiya b. R. Hiya b. Na’hmani 
in the name of R. Hisda, quoting Rabh, or quoting Zehra, ac- 
cording to others R. Hisda, said: Abba b. Hama told me that 
Zehri said: The Halakha prevails with R. Elezer. R. Elazar 
said: Everything which is deposited with a heathen is preserved 
if it was sealed with two seals, except wine, which is not consid- 
ered preserved even with two seals. R. Johanan, however, 
maintains that two seals preserve wine, too. Both, however, 
are in accordance with the rabbis. One holds that the rabbis 
differ with R. Elezer in case it only had one seal, and the other 
holds they differ with him, even regarding two seals. What is 
meant by a seal within a seal? Said Rabha: If the cork in the 
opening of a barrel was besmeared with clay and sealed, it is 
considered a seal within a seal, but not if there was only one of 
the two. 

If there was a basket over the barrel attached to it, it is con- 
sidered a seal within a seal, but not otherwise. 

If one leather bag full of wine was placed in another, mouth 
downward, it is considered two seals, but not, if mouth upward. 
However, if the opening was placed inside, and the outer bag 
was tied and sealed, it is considered a seal within a seal. 

It was taught: Why did the sages forbid date-beer of the 
heathens? Rami b. Hama in the name of R. Itz’hak said: As 
a safeguard against intermarriage. R.Na’hman, however, said: 
Because of uncovering. Uncovering what? If the barrel, we, 
too, do uncover, and if during the process of brewing, we also 
do the same. It speaks of those places where they used to clear 
the water before using it for the beer, and at that time they 


60 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


usually uncovered it. But if so, let, then, old beer be permitted, 
as there is no fear of poisoning (which would not have let it 
become old)? The o/d is forbidden as a safeguard, lest one use 
the xew. 

R. Papa used to stand outside of the store of the heathen 
and drink his beer; R. Abayi drank it when it was brought to 
his house, but not elsewhere; and the reason of both was the 
safeguard against intermarriage. The latter, however, was more 
particular, and did not wish to at all interfere with the heathens. 
Samuel b. Bisna happened to be in the City of Marguan (the 
Israelites of which were suspected of drinking wine of the 
heathens), and he drank neither wine nor beer, which was 
brought to him. It is correct that he did not drink wine, because 
of the suspicion that it was sacrificed, but why not beer? As 
a safeguard to wine. 

Said Rabh: The beer in question is permissible to everyone, 
but Hyia, my son, must not drink of it, because he is sick, and 
it may harm him. Said Samuel: All the reptiles have poison, 
but their poison doesnot kill, that of a snake excepted. 

The same said to Hyia b. Rabh: Come and I will tell you 
the good things which were said by your father. The sick 
heathens who become swollen, and whom uncovered water does 
not harm, surely ate reptiles, so that their bodies contain poison, 
which prevents the harming effects of the snake poison. R. 
Joseph said: The beer-vinegar is forbidden, because they mix 
into it the dregs of wine which was sacrificed. Said R. Ashi: 
If it was brought from the storehouse, it is permissible, for if it 
were mixed with dregs it would be spoiled. (See appendix.) 

‘* The sages did not admit.’’ There is a contradiction from 
the following: The wine which was placed in the bags of goat- 
skins by the heathens must not be consumed, but one may de- 
rive benefit from it. R. Simeon b. Guda, however, testified 
before the son of Rabban Gamaliel that his father drank of such, 
in the City of Akuh, and they (the sages) admitted it? The ex- 
pression not admitted in the Mishna means the other sages, but 
his son has admitted. And if you wish, it may be said that to 
one Tana by the name of Gudah, he has not admitted, but 
to the Tana Gudeah he has admitted. 

‘* Skins in which there are holes.’’ ‘The rabbis taught: What 
is considered a holed skin? If it is torn opposite the heart, and 
is round, and if there is a ‘‘ Kartub’’ (a small liquid measure 
equal to 7, of a lug) it is prohibited, but not if such was not 


pa sre RS, Sta Ss Oe oll Te “ 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 6x 


found. Said R. Huna: Provided it was not salted, but if salted 
it may be supposed that the salt has absorbed the blood. : 

““R. Simon 6. Gamaliel,’’ etc. Said R. Joseph in the name 
of R. Jehudah, quoting Samuel: The Halakha prevails with 
him. : 

“* Meat entering for the idol,’’ etc. Who isthe Tana that holds 
thus? Said Hyia b. Abba in the name of R. Johanan: It is not 
in accordance with R. Elazar, who said elsewhere that in general 
the thought of a heathen is directed to his idol. 

** Meat which comes out,’’ etc. And what isthe reason? Be- 
cause if it was already with the idol, it is impossible that there 
was no sacrifice. And this is in accordance with R. Jehuda b. 
Bathyra of the following Boraitha: Whence do we know that 
a sacrifice to the idol defiles ina tent? From [Psalms, cvi. 28]: 
** And they joined themselves unto Ba’al-pe’or, and ate the sac- 
rifices of the dead,’’ and as a dead defiles in a tent, so does the 
same the sacrifice of an idol. 

‘““With pilgrims,’’ etc. Said Samuel: A heathen pilgrim is 
prohibited only when on his way ¢@o the idol, because he goes to 
worship the idol, but when here turns there is nothing the matter, 
as no consideration should be paid to what was done. The re- 
verse is the case with an Israelite. When he goes there, one 
may interfere in hope to induce him to retract, but when he 
returns one must not, because as he is enthusiastic he will go 
again. But is there not a Boraitha to the effect that with an 
Israelite pilgrim one must not interfere either when he goes or 
returns? Said R. Ashi: That Boraitha speaks of an apostate Jew, 
of whom it is sure that he will not retract. 

“* Coming from,’’ etc. Said Resh Lakish: Provided they are 
not conjoined, but if they are, it is supposed that they will re- 
turn there. ; 

‘“‘ The bags of the heathens,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: New 
bags, which are not pitched as yet, are permissible, but those 
which are pitched are prohibited (if they have absorbed the 
wine). If, however, the heathen has pitched them and put in 
wine in the presence of an Israelite, the wine is permissible. 

But if the heathen puts the wine in, what is the Israelite’s 
presence good for? Explained R. Papa: The heathen pitched 
it, and an Israelite put in the wine in the presence of another 
Israelite. But to what purpose is the other Israelite’s presence? 
Perhaps the Israelite, while busy with pouring in the wine, 
would not notice that the heathen meanwhile devotes it. R. 


62 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


Zebid, however, said: R. Papa’s explanation is not necessary, 
as it is said before, the heathen that pours in the wine, but the 
wine loses its identity when mixed with the pitch, just as water 
does when poured into clay. Said R. Papa: We may infer 
from R. Zebid’s statement that if a heathen puts wine in an 
Israelite’s salt, it is permissible. R. Ashi, however, opposed, 
saying that there is no comparison, as in the pitch the wine is 
lost, but not in the salt, as the taste of it remains. There was 
a merchant, Bar Abi, who took away pitchers of R. Itzchak b. 
Joseph, kept wine in them, and thereafter returned them, and 
he asked in the college what to do with them? Said R. Jere- 
miah to him:.In such a case R. Ami has decided for practice 
one shall fill them with water for three days and after the water 
is poured out he may use them. Said Rabha: He must change 
the water every day. The schoolmen understand that this was 
said only concerning our bags, but not if the bags were the 
heathen’s. However, when Rabbin came from Palestine he 
said that there is no difference between ours and theirs. R. 
Aha b. Rabha meant. to say, in the presence of R. Ashi, that 
this is only concerning bags and not pitchers. Said R. Ashi to 
him: There is no difference between bags and pitchers. R. 
Jehudah the second questioned R. Ami: How is it if he has re- 
turned the pitchers to the pottery, and they were burned there. 
May they be used or not? And he answered: Brine extracts 
what is absorbed by them, so much the more does fire. So, also, 
was it taught by R. Johanan, according to others by R. Assi, in 
the name of the former: Pitchers of the heathens, which were 
returned to the pottery, as soon as the pitch falls off from them, 
are permissible. Said R. Ashi: Don’t teach until it falls off, 
but even when it weakens so as to fall off they are allowed. 

If this was done by burning them out simply with pieces of 
wood R. Aha and Rabbina differ. According to one it is per- 
missible, and according to the other it is not, and the Halakha 
prevails with the latter. The schoolman propounded a ques- 
tion: How is it to keep beer in the same? R. Na’hman and R. 
Jehudah prohibit it, and Rabha permits. Rabbina permitted 
Hyia b. Itzchak to put beer in them. He, however, put wine 
in them. Nevertheless, Rabinna did not care to forbid him, 
saying that this occurred only unintentionally, and he would not 
do it again. R. Itzchak b. Bisna had vessels made of clay and 


ordure, in which there was once sacrificed wine, and he filled 


them with water, put them in the sun, and they burst. Said R. 


ee eee 


Se EEO SS 
eT he 


OSE OR PTR RTS cpt, BO ee is ld ol aw : 


ee 
5 hae pipet 


ee Se On 


ara 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 63 


Abba to him: You have lost them in vain. True, the rabbis 
said to fill them with water, but did they say to put them in the 
sun? R. Yusna said in the name of R. Ami: Vessels of natron, 
in which there was wine, have no remedy. What is meant by 
natron vessels? Said R. Jose b. Abin: Vessels made of alum 
crystal. Rupila took away such pitchers from Pumbedith, kept 
wine in them, then returned them; and when R. Jehudah was 
questioned as to what to do with them, he said: He kept wine 
in them only temporarily, therefore he may rinse them with 
water and they are allowed. Said R. Evira: The pitchers of 
red earth which do not absorb much, he may rinse with water, 
and they are allowed. Said R. Papa: The same is the case with 
the clay pitchers of Michsi. Clay duchals R. Asi prohibits and 
R. Ashi permits. In case the heathen drank from them the first 
and second time, all agree that they are forbidden; they differ, 
however, with regard to the third time (2.e., when the first two 
times an Israelite drank from them; and the Halakha prevails, 
that if the heathen drank the first and second times, they are 
prohibited, but if the third, they are not). Said R. Zebid: 
Vessels enamelled with white and black are permissible, but if 
with green, they are not, because they contain alum crystal. 
However, if there were splits in them they all are forbidden. 

Maremar lectured: Enamelled vessels, no matter of what 
color, are permissible. But why is wine different from leaven 
on Passover, concerning which a similar question was pro- 
pounded to Maremar, and he prohibited them all? Because 
leaven is usually used hot, while wine is usually used cold. R. 
Agiba happened to be in Ginzek, and he was questioned the fol- 
lowing: Fasting a couple of hours only, is it considered or not? 
And he did not kriow the answer. Pitchers of heathens are 
allowed or prohibited? Finally, in what garments did Moses 
worship the seven days before he consecrated Aaron to the high 
priesthood? And he,,not knowing the answers, came with these 
questions to college. He was told: A fasting of hours is con- 
sidered, and if one finished his fasting at sunset, he may recite 
the prayer of fasting. The pitchers of heathens, after they were 
empty for twelve months, are permissible. Moses has wor- 
shipped the seven days in a white gown. R. Kahanah taught: 
In a white shirt which had no seam. 

“ The pressed grapes,’ etc. The rabbis taught: The pressed 
grapes of which wine was made, with their kernel, are forbidden 
when they are still wet, but not when they are dry. And which 


64 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


are to be considered wet? Before twelve months has elapsed, 
and thereafter they are considered dry. So R. Jehudah in the 
name of Samuel. It was taught: Rabba b. b. Hanna in the 
name of R. Johanan said: The prohibition of them extends even 
to the deriving of any benefit from them, and when they are 
allowed, they may even be consumed. R. Zebid said: The 
dregs of wine of the heathens, after twelve months, are allowed. 
Their enamelled pitchers, after twelve months of non-usage have 
elapsed, are allowed according to R. Habiba b. Rabha. R. 
Habiba said: And the same is the case with their thick leather 
bags. R. Aha b. R. Aika said: The same is also the case with 
their pomace of grapes. And R. Ahab. Rabha said: The same 
is also the case with their enamelled white and black pitchers. 

“ Fish-oul,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: Fish-oil made by a 
heathen specialist is permissible. R. Jehudah b. Gamaliel, in 
the name of R. Hanina his brother, said: The same is the case 
with Hz/ek (small fish, which have no fins or scales) if they come 
from a heathen specialist. R.Abimi b. R. Abuhu taught: Fish- 
oil from a specialist is allowed. He taught it, and he himself 
explained it thus: The first and the second time when there is 
considerable fat in it he has to use no wine, so it is allowed, but 
not in the third time, when wine must be used. There was 
a boat with fish-oil, which came to the port of Akhu, and R. 
Aba of the same city appointed a watchman to guard it. Said 
Rabha to him: Who, then, watched it until now? And he re- 
joined: Until now? for what purpose was it necessary to watch? 
surely not for fear perhaps they would put wine in it, as in their 
place wine costs four-fold as does fish-oil, while here it is the 
reverse. Said R. Jeremiah to R. Zera: But perhaps while this 
boat passed the City of Zur, where wine is cheap, they have 
poured wine in it? And he answered: It would have been a 
difficulty for this boat to reach Zur, as there are (along the coast 
from Zur to Akhu) bays formed by protruding rocks and shal- 
low waters caused by melting snows. 

‘“* Cheese of Anuytkt.’’ Said Resh Lakish: Why did the 
sages forbid the cheese of Anuyiki? Because most of their 
calves are slaughtered for the sake of their idols. (Says the 
Gemara): Why the most, when even if the minority were slaugh- 
tered for that purpose, the same would be the case, as R. Mair 
considers the minority also? The expression “‘ the most’’ was 
necessary in order to indicate that only a minority are slaugh- 
tered not for this purpose, but if it were said ‘‘ the minority,”’ 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 65 


then it would be understood that the majority are slaughtered 
not for this purpose, and as the cattle are also slaughtered not 
for this purpose, the minority then would be a minority of a 
minority, to which even R. Mair does not pay any attention. 
Said R. Simeon b. Elyakim to Resh Lakish: Your reason that 
the calves are slaughtered for the sake of the idol contradicts 
your own statement made elsewhere—viz.: that the slaughtering 
for the sake of the idol is not to be taken into consideration (in 
opposition to R. Johanan, who says that it is), and he answered: 
May you in the future be more successful in distinguishing mat- 
ters. I speak of him who expressly says: I am worshipping the 
idol with this slaughtering. 

‘“‘ Calls his attention to another thing.’’ ([Solomon’s Song, 
I, 2.} What does this passage mean? When R. Dimi came he 
said thus: The assembly of Israel said before the Holy One, 
blessed be He: Lord of the Universe, sweet are to me the words 
of thy friends (the sages who are explaining the law) more than 
the essence of the Torah. But what was the reason that he 
called his attention to this passage? Said R. Simeon b. Pazi, 
according to others, b. Ami: He called his attention to the be- 
ginning of this chapter, ‘‘ He may kiss me,’’ etc., and the mean- 
ing was this: Ishmael, my brother, compress your lips, one 
upon the other, and hasten not to propound questions. But 
why? Said Ulah, according to others, R. Samuel b. Aba: This 
was a new decree, to which the reason could not be given at 
that time. And what is the reason? Said R. Simeon b. Pazi 
in the name of R. Joshua b. Levi: It is that perhaps it was un- 
covered and was poisoned bya snake. If so, why did he not 
tell him so? This is as Ula said elsewhere. When a new de- 
cree was promulgated in the west, they did not give the reason 
until twelve months had elapsed, for fear there may be one who 
would not care for such a reason, and would not accept the de- 
cree. R. Jeremiah ridiculed this statement, since, according to 
it, old cheese should be allowed, as R. Hanina said: A dry or 
an old one is permissible, because poison would not. have 
allowed it to become old or dry. Said R. Hanina: The reason 
was that there is no cheese in which some skimmed milk does 
not remain, and this is forbidden, because the heathen mixes all 
milk with milk of such cattle that is forbidden to eat. Samuel, 
however, said: Because they curdle the milk with the skin of 
the rennet of a carcass. But how is it if with the rennet itself, 
would it be allowed? Did indeed Samuel say so? Is there not 


66 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


a Mishna: The rennet belonging to a Gentile as well as that of 
a carcass, is forbidden, and the question: What does a Gentile’s 
rennet mean. Samuel explained: The rennet of those cattle 
which the heathen has slaughtered is considered as one of a car- 


cass. Hence, the rennet itself is also prohibited? This pre- _ 


sents no difficulty, as Samuel’s explanation had been made 
before R. Jehoshua retracted his statement, that the rennet 
itself is to be considered. And his statement cited above was 
after the retraction of R. Jehoshua was known, and that Mish- 
na in tract Chulin remained uncorrected. ; 

R. Malchia in the name of R. Aba b. Ahaba said: The rea- 
son is that they besmear the top of the cheese with the fat of 
swine. R. Hisda said: Because they curdle it with vinegar. 
And R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak said: Because they curdle it with 
the juice of the trees of “‘ Orlah.’’ But, according to R. Hisda 
and R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak, it should be forbidden to derive 
any benefit from them? This difficulty remains unsolved. 

R. Na’hman b. R. Hisda lectured: It reads [Songs of Solo- 
mon, I-3]: ‘‘ To the smell are thy fragrant oils pleasant,’’ a 
scholar is equalled to a glass of perfume, which, if uncovered, 
gives forth a good odor, while it does not if covered. And not 
only this, but matters the reasons of which were sealed from 
him, finally become apparent [ibid., ibid.]: ‘‘ The maidens 
(‘‘ alomoth’’) love thee.’’ Do not read ‘* alomoth’’ (maidens), 
but “‘alumuth’”’ (hidden things). Furthermore, the angel of 
death becomes his lover, as the word alomoth is to be divided 
into two words, a/-moveth, which means death. And further- 
more, he inherits two worlds: this world, and the world to 
come, as the same word may be read ‘‘ o/umuth,’’ which means 
‘* worlds.’ 

MISHNA V.: The following things of the heathens are pro- 
hibited, but not for deriving benefit from them: Milk which 
the heathen himself milked not in the presence of an Israelite, 
their bread and oil. Rabbi in his court, however, permitted the 
consumption of their oil. Cooked and soaked herbs, in which 
they usually pour wine, and small salted fish (which is called 

trith), the brine of fish in which there is no fish, and ’hillek, the 
brine of ’hilteth, and sa/-condire—all these are forbidden to eat, 
but one may derive benefit from them. 

GEMARA: What is the reason for the prohibition of milk? 
If, e.g., that the heathen might substitute for the milk of a cow 
that of an ass, there is no fear, for from a cow it is white, while 


wee 





ran TERR kee Reap tires ie te 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 67 


from an ass it is green; and if because he may mix it with above, 
let him curdle it; and, as the Master said, the milk of an ass 
cannot be curdled? Yea; this is when he needs it for cheese, 
but how shall he test it when he needs it as it is? Even then 
he can test it by taking part thereof for curdling? 

This cannot prove, as there is some bad milk of a cow, which 
cannot be curdled. And if you wish, it can be said that even 
for cheese curdling is no test that the milk was not contamin- 
ated, as the unclean milk remains in the holes of the cheese (as 
said above). | 

‘* And bread.’’ Said R. Kahanah in the name of R. Johanan: 
Bread was not permitted by Rabbi and his court, as it was with 
oil. But is there one who says that it was? Yea; as R. Dimi, 
when back from Palestine, related: It once happened that Rabbi 
went to a field, and a heathen brought him fine bread, the size 
of a‘‘ saah,’’ and Rabbi exclaimed: How nice this bread is! 
Why should the sages forbid it? And by this exclamation the 
people thought that Rabbi had permitted it. In reality, how- 
ever, he did not. R: Joseph, according to others, R. Samuel 
b. Jehudah, said: It was not as R. Dimi related, but it once 
happened that Rabbi went to a certain place, and seeing that 
there was a difficulty to obtain Jewish bread for the disciples, 
he exclaimed, ‘‘ Is there no baker here!’’ People thought that 
he meant a heathen baker, but he probably meant a Jewish one. 
Said R. ’Helbu: Even if he meant a heathen baker, it is per- 
mitted only when there is no Jewish baker, otherwise it is not. 
And R. Johanan said: Even if he meant a heathen baker, it is 
permissible only in the field, but not in the city, by reason of the 
fear of intermarriage. Aiban used to bite and consume heathen 
bread at the boundaries of the field, and Rabha or R. Na’hman 
b. Itz’hak told his disciples not to have any conversation with 
him, because he eats heathen bread. , 

‘* And their oil.’’ Concerning oil, Rabh said: Daniel has de- 
creed the prohibition, and Samuel said: Because ¢hey are boiled 
in forbidden vessels. Said Samuel to Rabh: According to my 
theory, it is correct that R. Itz’hak b. Samuel b. Martha related 
about R. Simlayi, who preached in the City of Nezibin, that 
concerning oil R. Jehudah (Rabbi and his court voted and per- 
mitted it), Their reason may have been that the absorbed fat 
in the vessels which spoils the oil does not affect its validity, 
and therefore they permitted. But according to your theory 
that Daniel had so decreed, is it possible that R. Jehudah, the 


68 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


prince, should abolish the decree of Daniel? Is there not a 
Mishna: A court must not abolish the decree of another, unless 
it is greater in wisdom and in number? And he answered: You 
speak of Simlayi the Ludian, such people do not care to observe 
the decrees of the rabbis. Said Samuel: Then allow me to send 
this message to him (Simlayi), and Rabh became confused. 
Thereupon he said: If they have not given proper attention to 
that which is written concerning Daniel in the Scripture, should 
we do the same? Does it not read [Daniel, i. 8]: ‘“ Nor the 
wine of his banquets.’’* Hence we see that the Scripture 
speaks of two banquets, one of wine and one of oil. However, 
he differs with Samuel in the explanation of ‘‘ resolved in his 
heart,’’ as according to him (Rabh) “‘ he resolved in his heart, 
and decreed same for all Israel.’ Samuel, however, explains it: 
He so resolved for himself, but not for Israel. But how can we 
say that Daniel decreed so, after Bali-Abimi of Nirtah said in 
the name of Rabh: The decrees, concerning their bread, wine, oil, 
and their daughters were included in the eighteen decrees (which 
‘are mentioned in Tract Sabbath). Now, should you say that 
Daniel’s decree was not accepted until after the disciples of 
Hillel and Shamai came, decreed so, and it was then accepted? 
Then, how is to be understood the testimony that Daniel has 
thus decreed? Rabh has testified that Daniel’s decree was only 
for the cities where other oils are to be found, but not for the 
field. And the rabbis mentioned above decreed that the same 
should be even in the field. But after all, how could Rabbi 
abolish their decree despite the Mishna cited above: That one 
court must not abolish the decree of another, etc.? And, sec- 
ondly, did not Rabba b. b. Hanna say in the name of R. Jo- 
hanan, that even in cases where one court may change the 
decree of another, it cannot do so with regard to the above eigh- 
teen decrees, as concerning them, even if Elijah with his court 
should come and abolish them, he must not be heeded? Said 
R. Mesharshia: The reason is that the decrees in question were 
spread among the majority of Israel; as to oil, however, its 
decree was not accepted by the majority of Israel. As so said 
Samuel b. Aba in the name of R. Johanan: Our masters inves- 
tigated concerning oil, and found that the prohibition was not 
accepted by the majority, therefore, adhere to the rule declared 





* Leeser translates ‘‘ which he drank”; the Talmud, however, takes it literally, 
as the term ‘‘ mishte”” in Hebrew means banquet. 


hs " aE WR RES 
a al 7 


nse 
Sera 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 69 


by R. Simeon b. Gamaliel and R. Eliezer b. Zadok, that a court 
must not enact anything which the majority of the congregation 
could not possibly follow.* 

R. Jehudah the second leaned upon the shoulder of R. Sim- 
layi when walking in the street, and said: Simlayi, you were 
not in college yesterday, at the time we permitted oil of the 
heathens. And he answered: I hope that you will soon permit 
their bread also. Rejoined R. Jehudah: Then the people would 
name us the al/-permitting court, as so they named R. Josh 
(Tract Idioth Mishna). Then to Simlayi’s remark: R. Josh has 
permitted three things, and you, master, have only permitted 
one, and should you permit one more, it will be only two. Je- 
hudah answered: I have already permitted another thing con- 
cerning the validity a divorce attains after twelve months had 
elapsed before the husband returns; and it happened that before 
the elapse of such period the man died, and I have permitted 
the woman to remarry.t 

‘ Cooked,’’ etc. Whence is this deduced? Said R. Hyia b. 
Aba in the name of R. Johanan, from [Deut. ii. 28]:' ‘‘ Food 
shalt thou sell me for money, that I may eat; and water for 
money shalt thou give me, that I may drink,’’ which means, 
like water, which does not, since its creation, change by fire, 
eatables are not changed since their creation, by fire. (But that 
which was changed is not permissible.) But as there is not 
mentioned “‘ firve’’ in the Scripture, this is but a decree of the 
rabbis, and the verse is brought only as a hint to this. R.Sam- 
uel b. Itz’hak said in the name of Rabh: To everything which 
can be consumed raw, the prohibition of cooked by a heathen 
does not apply. So it was taught in the college of Sura. In 
the college of Pumbeditha, however, it was taught as follows: R. 
Samuel b. R. Itz’hak in the name of Rabh said: To everything 
which is not served on the table of noblemen to relish the bread, 
the prohibition of ‘‘ cooked by a heathen ’’ does not apply. And 
what is the difference between the two versions? Small fish, 
mushroom and disa (a thickly cooked barley or meal). All these 
three cannot be consumed raw, but they are not served on the 
tables of noblemen. Hence, according to the first version, if 





* The text here treats of the eighteen decrees mentioned in [Sabbath page 24] 
which we have omitted. We also call the attention of the reader to the appendix at 
the end of same tract. 

+ The text discusses here the three things which Josh b. Joezer testified in the 
cited Mishna, Idioth, which will be found there in the proper place. 


no. THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


prepared by a heathen, must not be consumed, and according 
to the second, it is permissible. 

R. Assi said in the name of Rabh: To small salt fish cooking 
of a heathen does not apply. Said R. Joseph: If the heathen 
roasted it, an Israelite may rely upon it for aneb tabshilin.* 
But if he has prepared from this a mush of harsana (a dish of 
small fish with flour) it is forbidden. Is this not self-evident? 
Lest one say that the fish is the main thing of this dish, it comes 
to teach us that the flour is the main thing. R. Johanan said: 
If a heathen singed the head of an animal, it is permissible to 
partake of it even from the ear (although the ear is nearly 
cooked by the singeing). Said Rabbina: From this we may infer 
that if he threw a tent-pin in the stove (to dry it), and an Israel- 
ite has deposited upon it a pumpkin, it may be used. Is this 
not self-evident? Lest one say that the heathen intended to 
cook the tent-pin (hence the pumpkin would be cooked by him), 
he came to teach us that his intention was only to dry and not 
to cook it. R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: If an 
Israelite placed meat upon live coals and a heathen came and 
turned it, it is permissible. But let us examine the case. If 
without turning, it would not be cooked, then it was cooked by 


the heathen, and must not be permissible; on the other hand, 


if it would be cooked without turning, then its permission is 
self-evident. It speaks of the fact that if he did not turn it, it 
would cook in two hours, but by turning, it was cooked in one 
hour; and lest one say that the hastening of the cooking be 
taken into consideration, he teaches us that it is not so. 

But did not R. Assi say in the name of R. Johanan that, 
when the food has been cooked to the extent that Ben Drusai + 
habitually eats it, the heathen may then complete its cooking, 
but not otherwise, and should not the above-mentioned fried 
meat be accordingly prohibited? This quotation intends to say 
as follows: If the meat was put into the pot by the Israelite 
and then placed upon the fire by a heathen, it is permissible. 
There is a Boraitha to this effect: The Israelite may put the 
meat upon the coals and let the heathen do the turning till he 
returns from the synagogue or college. Similarly, a Jewish 
woman may place the pot upon the fire and then leave the 
heathen woman do the skimming till she returns from the syna- 





* See Erubin. 
+ Ben-Drusai, a certain robber who used to eat meat only one-third cooked. 


Te a 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 5 


gogue or bath-house. In these cases there is nothing to fear. 
The schoolmen propounded a question whether that meat is 
permissible which was put upon the coals by a heathen and 
turned about by an Israelite? Said R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak: 
The answer thereto can be inferred a fortiori—viz. : if the com- 
pletion of the cooking by the heathen’s hand is allowed, so 
much the more is it so, if by the hand of Israelite. It was 
taught so, too: Rabba b. ’Hana, according to others, R. A’ha 
b. b. ’Hana, said in the name of R. Johanan: It is only then pro- 
hibited when the heathen prepares the food all alone, without 
the aid of the Israelite. As to bread, Rabbina said: The 
Halakha is thus: When the Israelite heats the oven and the 
heathen places the bread therein, or vice versa, or, finally, the 
heathen does both the things and the Israelite was but fixing 
a little the fire during the heating, the bread is allowed. How- 
ever, fish salted by heathens are allowed by ’Hiskia, but pro- 
hibited by R. Johanan; and an egg roasted by a heathen Bar 
Kapara allows, but not R. Johanan. But when R. Dimi came 
from Palestine, he said that in both fish and egg ’Hiskia and 
Bar Kapara allow, and R. Johanan does not. R. Hyye Parvah 
called once on the Exilearch, where he was asked whether it is 
allowed to eat an egg roasted by a heathen, and he replied that 
’Hiskia and Bar Kapara allow it and R. Johanan prohibits it; 
the rule ‘‘ The majority rules’”’ is to be followed. Thereupon 
exhorted R. Zebid: Do not listen to R. Hyye, for Ahayi says 
that in this case the Halakha prevails according to R. Johanan. 
The Exilearch’s servants became therefore so enraged that they 
poisoned R. Zebid with a drink of vinegar, from which he died. 

The rabbis taught: Kaprises, Kaplututh, Hamtlia, warm 
water and roasted ears of corn coming from the heathens are 
allowed; roasted eggs are prohibited. Oil was allowed by R. 
Jehudah, the prince, and his court by vote. There isa Boraitha: 
Hamtlia is called also Peshlia and Shietta. But what, indeed, 
is it? Rabha b. b. ’Hana said in the name of R. Johanan: It 
is now forty years since it was imported from Egypt; he him- 
self said, it is already sixty years. In reality, both concur, for 
RK. Johanan made his statement twenty years ago. The prep- 
aration thereof is as follows: Take parsley-seed, glue-seed, juice 
of fenugreek; keep them all in lukewarm water until the seed 
coats burst; then fill with water new earthern pots, and, on 
putting therein some red earth, plant in it the seeds; now go to 
bathe, and no sooner do you come back than the planted seeds 


"2 ‘THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


will have borne their fruit, which is highly refreshing, so that 
on eating thereof you are cooled up from top to toe. Said R. 
Ashi: I was told by R. ’Hanina that all this is but a mere fable. 

The rabbis taught: If dates of which beer was already once 
brewed be warmed anew in other vessels, the question arises as 
to whether these vessels are big or small: if big, the dates in 
question are prohibited; if small, they are allowed, for in small 
vessels the heathen surely cooks nothing unclean. What deter- 
mines the size of vessel? R. Janai said: A vessel is said to be 
small when through its mouth the swallow is not able to pass. 
But could not the bird be cut into pieces and then made to pass 
through the opening of the vessel? Well, the foregoing deter- 
mination is to be understood as follows: The opening of the ves- 
sel must beso small that the head of the said bird could not enter. 
But is there not a Boraitha: Dates are allowed regardless of the 
size of the vessei they are in? Yea; nevertheless there is no 
implicit contradiction here, for he who prohibits the big vessels 
is of the opinion that if the taste left by the old vessel were even 
injurious to the food, it is nevertheless prohibited; while the 
‘others who allowed it maintain that if the flavor left by the old 
vessels be favorable to the food, it is prohibited, but if unfavorable, 
it is allowed; therefore they have also allowed in this case the 
big vessels of the heathens. R. Sheshith said: A heathen’s 
cooked oil is prohibited. Wondered R. Saphra: Why, there is 
nothing to fear in this case, for were the heathen to put into the 
said oil fat he would thereby impart to it an insipid odor; nor 
can the prohibition be based upon the mere fact that it was 
cooked by a heathen, as we have learned above: All that may 
be eaten in a raw state, may also be eaten when cooked bya 
heathen, and oil is eatable uncooked; as for the absorption by 
the vessel, it makes the taste of the oil bad, and hence it can- 
not be prohibited therefor. R. Assi was asked whether dates 
- cooked by a heathen are permissible. Sweet dates, that are 
eatable when raw, are certainly allowed, but not bitter ones, 
which are not eatable when raw. The chief point here is: What 
about dates that are neither sweet nor bitter (and are, in case of 
necessity, eatable when raw)? And he answered: A distin- 
guished man, Levi, has already prohibited them. Shthithah 
(a dish prepared from young ears of corn) of a heathen, Rabh 
allows, the father of Samuel and Levi prohibits. (Says the Ge- 
mara): If prepared of wheat or barley flour, all agree that it is al- 
lowed. A food of peas and vinegar is declared prohibited also by 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 73 


Rabh. Their point of difference concerns solely a food of flour 
and water, which the father of Samuel and Levi prohibits, fearing 
that, if this were allowed, people would later eat also foods pre- 
pared with vinegar; Rabh, on the other hand, does not entertain 
this fear. Others word this discussion as follows: Pea flour pre- 
pared by the heathen with water is prohibited by Rabh, who 
fears lest food with vinegar be eaten; only foods prepared of 
wheat or barley flour are permissible, as for their preparation no 
vinegar is required. The other party, however, prohibits also 
these foods, fearing lest one might then allow oneself also peas 
prepared with vinegar. | 

Rabh said: Barsillai sent to David two kinds of this Shthit- 
hah, as it reads [II Sam. xvii. 28]: ‘‘ Bedstead, pans, earthen 
pots, wheat, barley, flour, ears of corn, beans, lentils, oatmeal.’’ 
That nowadays we buy of the heathens in the markets of Nahar- 
dea these articles in the basketfuls, is a sign that Samuel and 
Levi's prohibition is disregarded. 

‘* And pressed preserves into which they habitually put wine.”' 
Its benefit is, according to R. Hiskia, only then allowed when 
it is not known that there is wine in it. But if it is definitely 
known that there is wine in it, it is prohibited. Why then do 
the rabbis allow the use of muries which, we know, all prepare 
with wine? Because here wine is used merely to destroy the 
fishlime of the muries, while in the above it is used to render 
the preserves more palatable. However, R. Johanan said that 
even when it is known that there is wine in the preserves their 
benefit is none the less permitted. What difference is there 
between muries and preserves, that R. Mair prohibits the use 
of the former, but allows that of the latter? In case of the 
muries which is taken with bread, one eats the wine contained 
therein, while in the case of preserves you consume only the 
preserved fruits, the wine remaining in the vessel. 

‘“ Pressed fish cut in small pieces and Hilac are forbidden.”’ 
What is Hilac? R. Na’hman Hanan b. Aba said in the name of 
Rabh: Hilac is Sulthenuth. This fish, though it has the marks 
of the clean fish, is prohibited, because it so closely resembles 
the other unclean fish with which it is drawn out that it becomes 
impossible to distinguish it. 

The rabbis taught: Those fishes which, when young, do not 
exhibit their signs of clean fish, but grow them later, as is the 
case with the Sulthenuth and the Epitz, are allowed to eat. 
Such fishes that show the signs of the clean order when fished 


74 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


out, but lose them later, such as the Akunas and Apunas, Cho- 
tospeteis, Achspeteis and Utanas, are allowed. R. Abuhu 
heralded at Czsaria that it is permitted to buy of anybody the 
fish oil and rye, for it is imported only from Pelusium and 
Aspamia (Spain), where there are no fishes of the unclean order. 
Abayi likewise allows to buy of heathens the fish Zachanthra 
from the river Dahab. Why is this permitted? Presumably 
because the bed of the river is of such a composition that fish 
of the unclean order can not live there. Said Rabbina: Now 
that the two rivers Gusa and Ganda have been united with the 
Dahab river the Zachanthra is again prohibited (as the former 
two shelter -unclean fish). Abayi said: The sea-donkey is 
allowed, but not the sea-ox; and you remember this by the fol- 
lowing mark: the unclean (on earth?) is clean, while the clean 
is unclean. R. Ashi said: Separnuna is allowed, Kadeshnuna 
is not; according to others he said that Kaharnuna is forbidden, 
R. Agiba, when in Ginsek, was offered a fish that resembled the 
Hipusha, which is of the unclean order; he took a basket, 
put therein the fish, then, upon removing it from the basket, he 
found scales there, and allowed the fish. R. Ashi applied on 
a similar occasion in Matduria the following test: he held out 
the fish, which resembled the unclean Zehrpeha, against the 
sun-rays, and perceived scales, whereupon he allowed it. He 
happened to be once in another town, where he was offered a 
fish similar to the unclean Separnuna, so he had it covered with 
a white vessel, and, as he discovered scales on the walls of the 
vessel, allowed the fish. Rabba b. "Hana came once to Arka 
Dagma, where he was given the fish Zachanthra; but as he 
heard the house servants call it Bati, he thought it may be an 
unclean fish, and refrained from touching it; in the morning, on 
examining the fishes, he found among them. some of the unclean 
order, whereupon he applied to himself the verse: ‘‘ No wrong 
can come unawares to the righteous’’ [Prov. xii. 21]. 

‘* And the berries of the Chalthith are forbidden.’’ This pro- 
hibition is based upon the following fact: These berries must 
be cut off with a knife from which they imbibe what may have 
penetrated it from some prohibited food, although the master 
says that if by the withdrawal the food loses in taste, such food 
is permitted; here, however, the strong sap of the Chalthith 
berries restore the fat possibly extracted from the knife, hence 
they are forbidden. R. Levi’s slave used to sell Chalthith; 
upon the death of R. Levi, R. Johanan was asked whether it 








yes 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 78 


was allowed henceforth to buy of the slave the Chalthith, to 
which he replied: We always repose in the slave the same con- 
fidence which we showed his master (we must thus trust also 
after the death of his master that he will not sell unclean for 
clean things). R. Huna b. Miniumi, having bought once blue 
wool for tshitzes from the house of R. Amram the pious who 
was dead already, betook himself to R. Joseph to ask him whether 
the use of the said wool is allowed; as he was unable to give a 
satisfactory answer, R. Huna went away, when he chanced to 
meet Hanan the tailor, to whom he disclosed his perplexity 
and the tailor said: How could the poor Joseph know this? I, 
myself, bought once such blue wool for the same purpose in the 
house of Rabnah, the brother of R. Hyys b. Aba; it was after 
the death of Rabnah, so I asked R. Mathna whether or not the 
use of the wool is allowed, and he knew no answer; I then went 
to R. Jehudah of Hagruna, and he said: At last you resort to 
me with a question. So said Samuel: We are to trust the wife 
of a scholar as we have trusted her husband. Such is the opin- 
ion also of the rabbis, who teach that the wife enjoys our con- 
fidence on the same basis with her husband, which relation 
holds good also with regard to master and slave; upon the death 
of the man his house claims our confidence until sufficient reason 
appears to call for the withdrawing of it therefrom. The same 
is the case with a stationery selling blue wool for tzitzes, you 
may buy here so long as there is no just reason for not buying. 

The rabbis taught: The widow or daughter of an Amharez, 
who is to marry a scholar, likewise the slave of such who is to 
be sold to a scholar, must take the oral oath that they will ob- 
serve the commandments and prohibitions of the sages. On the 
other hand, if the converse is the case, they are each free from 
this oath, since they are now as trustworthy as ever before; this, 
however, is but R. Meir’s view, while R. Jehuda finds the oath 
necessary also in this second case. R. Simeon b. Elazar said: 
I knew a woman who would aid her husband, who was a scholar, 
to put on his Tephilis; upon his death she married a contrac- 
tor,* whom she would aid in putting on his amulet. Rabh said: 
Fat, meat, wine, and blue wool for ¢zz¢zes should when sealed 
with only one seal, never be forwarded through a heathen; but 
Chilthith, bread, muries and cheese may be forwarded with one 
seal. In case of bread, the heathen will surely not replace it, 





* This is explained in our ‘‘ History of Amulets, Charms and Talismans.” See there. 


76 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


as this could be easily discovered, the difference between fresh 
and stale bread, between wheat or barley bread, being too 
salient, and there is no reason to believe that as there is one 
seal he will exchange a bread for its equal. But whyin the case 
of cheese Rabh finds one seal sufficient, while for fat, which is 
not dearer than cheese, he requires two? Said R. Kahana: 
Rabh did not mean fat, but fish cut in pieces and lacking the 
marks by which they might be discerned from meat. But if 
such be the case, they could indeed be taken and exchanged for 
meat? Rabh considers two sorts of meat: fish-meat and meat 
proper. Samuel, however, put it thus: Meat, wine, blue wool 
_ that are to. be forwarded through a heathen, require each two 
seals; muries, Chilthith and cheese, only one seal; fish is like 
meat, hence needs no special mention (and bread he does not 
quote at all, for here is nothing to fear). 

The rabbis taught: One should not buy of a tradesman in 
Syria wine, muries, milk, salcondrit salt, Chilthith, cheese, un- 
less the seller is positively known to be a specialist, otherwise 
he is suspicious of mixing something forbidden into the said 
articles. However, if an Israelite is visiting such a tradesman 
in Syria, he is allowed to eat everything served at the host’s 
table, for in the house nothing forbidden is used there. This 
corroborates what R. Jehoshua b. Levis aid—viz.: An Israelite 
may accept one of the foregoing articles as a present from a 
Syrian tradesman, provided he gives it from his household stock, 
because in the house nothing unclean is used there. What is 
salcondrit salt mentioned above? R. Jehudah said in the name 
of Samuel: It is the salt used by all the nobles of Rome. The 
_ rabbis taught: Black salcondrit is prohibited, but not the white 
sort. So R. Meier; R. Jehudah said the contrary: White is for- 
bidden and black is allowed. R. Jehudah b. Gamaliel in the 
name of R. Hanina b. Gamaliel said: Both the sorts are forbid- 
den. Said Rabba b. b. ’Hana in the name of R. Johanan: He 


who prohibits the use of the white salt is prompted thereto by © 


the fact that some put into it the whzte parts of the intestines 


of unclean fish; on the other hand, that some put into the black 4q 


salt the black parts of unclean fish, is sufficient reason to him 


who forbids it, while these two facts justify the third party to e | 


prohibit the use of both salts. R. Abuhu said in the name of 
R. Hanina b. Gamaliel: There once lived an old man, a heathen, 
in our street, and he used to grease with pork-fat this salt which 
he was selling. 


Re re Oe th, nee 


sree ee. Be 




















TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). -: 


“Ts forbidden.’’ The word enumerated is calculated to ex- 
clude other articles; which, then, are these? According to 
Hiskia, preserves into which the majority are known to omit 
wine, is excluded even for benefit; and according to R. Johanan, 
also muries and cheese from Beth-Unirka. R. Meier’s opinion 
is cited here without the mention of his name. 

MISHNA VZ.: The following things are allowed to eat, too: 
Milk milked by a heathen in the presence of an Israelite, honey 
and honey-cake from the beehive. Others think grapes, even 
when trickling, are not capable of defiling, not even as moisture; 
preserves into which as a rule wine and vinegar are not entering; 
pressed fish that is not all cut, fish-brine in which there is a fish, 
the leaves of Chalthith; soft olives closely packed in a barrel. 
R. Jose prohibits them if their kernels fall out easily. The 
locusts are forbidden when coming from the grocer’s basket, but 
are allowed when they come from the pantry; the same is the 
case with heave-offering. . 

GEMARA: This Mishna bears out what the rabbis teach 
elsewhere—viz.: An Israelite sitting near the herd of a heathen 
who is milking milk, may drink it without any fear that the 
heathen has adulterated it. How was the case? If there is in 
the herd no milk-giving animal of the unclean order, it is obvi- 
ous that the milk is allowed, but if there be one why should the 
milk be allowed now that the Israelite is unable to see which 
animal the, heathen is milking? The rabbis intend to teach 
thus: The Israelite must occupy such a position that upon rising 
he could see the heathen milking, in which case it is allowed, 
for the heathen will be afraid to mix in unclean milk, as the 
Israelite might at any moment rise and see what he is doing. 
The rabbis emphasize this in order to dispel the belief that the 
milk is forbidden by reason of the Israelite’s sitting position; 
the possibility, they hold, of his rising and observing the 
heathen’s doings renders the milk allowed. 

““ The honey ts allowed.’’ This could not possibly be for- 
bidden, as there is not reasonable fear that the heathen will 
mix in it foreign stuff which would surely spoil the honey. 
Nor is there any reason to fear that the honey may be cooked, 
for even if this be the case, the honey is allowed, as the basis 
of the previously established rule that whatever is eatable 
in its raw state is allowed also when cooked by a heathen. 
Finally, there can be no fear that the honey having been 
possibly kept in forbidden vessels may have absorbed the 


78 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


vapor imbibed by the latter, since this would spoil the flavor 
of the honey. 

‘* Also grapes even when trickling,’’ etc. This is apparently 
contradicted by the following: Shamai says, if one gathers 
grapes for the wine-press, they are, when trickling, subject to 
defilement to an extent as if water has been poured upon them. 
Hillel, who was at first inclined to hold the contrary, agreed at 
last with Shamai’s opinion; hence, the moisture is defiling? 
This is no contradiction; when one puts the grapes into the 
press it is for the purpose of making wine, and if the grapes are 
moist, it is readily seen; while here it is a case of eating grapes 
when one intently looks for dry ones, and when these trickle 
too, no heed is taken, since they are used for eating and not for 
making wine. 

‘© Pressed not all cut,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: When the 
head and. backbone are whole, it is not all cut; ‘* Fish-brine in 
which the fish is,’’ means, when there are in the brine one or 
two worms called Chilbith, it is allowed. Now, if this is allowed 
with one Chilbith in it, why does the statement read: one or 
two? Inaclosed barrel one is sufficient, while in an open one 
two are required (because it may be supposed that one fell in from 
some other vessel). It was taught: R. Huna says it is allowed 
only when its head and backbone are recognizable. R.Na’hman 
said: Only when either of the two is recognizable. Whereupon 
R. Ugha b. Hama objected: We know that fish with scales and 
fins are allowed to eat; now, how is it possible to recognize an 
allowed fish by its head or backbone? Said Abayi: The fishes 
here in question are the Arah and Palmuda, which are of the 
clean order, but whose heads resemble those of the unclean. 
R. Jehudah said in the name of Ula: R. Huna and R. Na’hman 
have here in view the fish-brine, and not at all the fish, so that 
the one says: The fish-lac is allowed when the head of its fish 
is seen, while the other one maintains that the backbone, too, 
must be recognized. R. Seia said: I was in the habit of eating 
fish-brine with bread upon recognizing in it either the head or 
the backbone of its fish; now that I heard what R. Jehudah 
says in the name of Ula, I began to eat it only when I recog- 
nized both. Said R. Papa: The Halakha prevails: The said 
fishes are allowed only when both head and backbone are recog- 
nizable. To this an objection was raised from the following 
Thosephtha: Fishes cut in pieces and cooked are allowed in all 


their parts if the marks of the clean order were found, and be it — 


3 a i > o 
a Bie ce are 
oe 


fn ie ee ae ot PI 


at Sica St spag esi, 





Bi, re 
Be Ae ey ae 


wrt 











TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 79 


only on one part of a piece or on one pieceamong hundreds. A 
heathen brought once to market a barrelful of cut fish where 
a piece was found with marks of the clean order on it, and R. 
Simeon b. Gamaliel allowed the whole barrelful, which case all 
but corroborates the foregoing objection. R. Papa gave then 
this interpretation: All the pieces of that barrel were equal. 
But if so, entire statement would appear superfluous? Lest one 
say it should be feared perhaps another kind of fish happened 
to be in there, it teaches us that it is not so. A boatful of 
Zahontha was once brought to a fish-pond; R. Huna betook 
himself there to inspect them, and upon perceiving some scales 
in the boat, he allowed the whole. Rabha, finding it astound- 
ing that by reason of a few scales one should allow all the fish, 
regardless of the possibility that there might be among them 
fish void of scales, heralded that these fish are forbidden. R. 
Huna b. Hanina heralded the contrary. Said R. Jeremiah of 
Diphthi: I was told by R. Papa that R. Huna allowed only the 
fish-brine and not the fish itself. R. Ashi, however, said: I was 
told by R. Papa that R. Huna allowed the fish, too. As to 
myself, I cannot prohibit the fish after hearing from R. Papa 
that R. Huna allows them; nor can I allow them, however, 
after having learned from R. Jehudah in the name of Ula that 
only such fish are allowable of which both head and backbone 
are recognized. R. Hinna Hanina b. Aida, while once at the 
house of R. Ada b. ‘Ahbah, said: If a ship-cargo consisting of 


barrels with fish-brine is brought to Israelites and the Chalbith 


is found in one of the barrels, they all are allowed if they were 
open (for it is plausible to assume that there was Chalbith in the 
other barrels as well, but, they being open, crept out). But if 
the barrels were tightly covered up, only the one with the Chil- 
bith in it is allowed. Thereupon R. Ada asked him: Whence 
do you know this? From three men of great erudition: Rabh, 
Samuel and R. Johanan. . 

R. Bruna said in the name of Rabh: Fish-entrails as well as 
fish-rye you may buy only of a specialist. Said Ula to R. Dus- 
thai of Biri: Since Rabh speaks of entrails and rye, it is mani- 
fest that also unclean fish have rye, otherwise he would not 
treat of the two in the same connection. But I am able to 
prove the contrary from the following: The unclean fish are 
viviparous, while the clean ones are rye-bearing. Well, was 
the reply, strike the word rye from Rabh’s statement. Here- 
upon said R. Zera: It is not necessary to strike it out, for the 


80 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


fact is that unclean fish are also rye-bearing, but so that their 
offspring is mature in the rye before it is ejected out of the 
body, while that of the clean fish is brought about by the sand. 
But why is it requisite that rye be bought only of a specialist 
now that we have signs whereby to distinguish the clean from 
the unclean? Have we not learned that the marks which serve 
to distinguish the clean from the unclean eggs of birds, are also 
distinctive of clean and unclean eggs of fish? But how is this 
possible when according to law the signs of fish are the scalés 
and fins? The above is then to be thus understood: When the 
eggs are elongated, with one end pointed and the other round, 
it is a mark of clean ones, but if the sides are both pointed or 
both round, it is of the unclean order. If the yolk of the egg is 
on the surface and the white in the middle, it is a sign of un- 
cleanness; the converse is a sign of cleanness. If, however, the 
yolk and white are intermingled, it is a sign that it comes from 
reptiles, and is therefore unclean. Rabha said that Rabh’s view 
must be thus intepreted: If the fish-rye is entirely squeezed so 
that the said signs are-no longer discernible. 

And if there be no specialist, what then? Said R. Jehudah: 
If the vendor says, I have pickled the fish and know them to 
be clean, he is trusted. R.Na’hman adds: He must show the 
sort of fish pickled by him and their entrails. R. Jehudah in- 
structed the waiter Ada: The vendor who says, I have pickled 
these fish, is to be trusted. 

‘* The leaves of Chalthith are allowed to cat.’’ ‘This, being, 
as it is, self-evident, since these leaves are not cut with a knife, 
is stated here in order to indicate that such a leaf is allowed 
even when a bit of the root is on it. If not for this specific 
statement, it would be plausible to think that a leaf with a piece 
of root on be forbidden by reason of the apparently rational 
supposition that the root may have come from some other vessel 
where it possibly was cut with a knife. 

‘‘ Very soft olives.’’ Although this is likewise self-evident, 
its statement is none the less necessary in order to prevent the 


belief that, since the olives are soft, wine may have been put in — 


them to bring about this softness. 

R. Jose said: What kind of olives are these? Said R. Jose 
b. ’Hanina: Olives whose kernels fall out when you merely keep 
them in your hand, it is thus manifest that the olives were kept 
in wine in order to make them so soft. 

‘* The locusts,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: Locusts, Kaprises, 


PLE om, ee Vie oe Ot ee ae Se ae 


aS . z 
SE eS ee ae ae ia a eee 
a en et ae EO ae ee ne re 

- 3 5 : FE TIS Ss Sa ee ea asec — P ye 














TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 81 


Kapluthuth brought from the store or from the locality where 
they are prepared, or from a boat, are allowed; but those that 
are sold by the small tradesmen are forbidden, for they spill 
wine upon them. The same is the case with apple-cider, which 
is allowed when coming from the store, but forbidden when 
bought of the small tradesmen, who mix wine in it. 

The rabbis taught: Rabbi suffered once from pains in the 
stomach, so he asked if one could tell him whether the apple- 
cider of the heathen is prohibited or not; said R. Ismael b. R. 
Jose: My father had once suffered likewise from such pains, and 
having taken some apple-cider seventy years old, bought of 
heathens, he felt relieved. Said Rabbi: You knew this and let 
me suffer so long! Thereupon apple-cider was sought for and 
found by a heathen in the quantity of 300 pitchers seventy years 
old already; Rabbi drank therefrom and was cured. Where- 
upon he said: Praised be the Omnipotent who put his world in 
the hands of the guardians! 

““ The same 1s the case with it.’’ Howis this to be under- 
stood? As R. Sheshith said: When a priest is suspected of 
selling heave-offering under the pretense that it is not terumah, 
one is prohibited from buying of him whatever he sells; but 
what he brings from the pantry, or in baskets, or from the place 
of production, is allowed to buy of him; for here he is afraid to 
falsify, lest the rabbis, on being informed thereabout, deprive 
him of everything. 


CHAPTER III. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE DERIVING OF BENEFIT 
FROM PROFANED IDOLS AND IMAGES OF HEATHENS AND ISRAEL- 
ITES.—CONCERNING UTENSILS ON WHICH ARE ENGRAVED THE 
SUN, THE MOON AND OTHER PLANETS, 


-MISHNA 7: All images are prohibited, for they are wor- 
shipped at least once a year, so says R. Mair. The sages, 
however, say: Only those that have in their hand a staff, a bird 
orasphere. R. Simeon b. Gamaliel says: And that has some- 
thing in its hand. 

GEMARA: If it be true that these images are worshipped 
at least once during the year, why do the rabbis allow their use 
at all? Said R. Itz’hak b. Joseph in the name of R. Johanan: 
At the native place of R. Mair the heathens had the custom of 
worshipping each image once a year, in other places this was 
not the custom, and as R. Mair lays down his precept on the 
basis of the minority of cases (in order to exclude misconcep- 
tions), he accordingly prohibits the images; while the rabbis 
who do not follow this principle, allow to derive benefit from 
them. R. Jehudah, however, said in the name of Samuel: The 
Mishna here is concerned not with ordinary images, but with 
such as are wrought to honor kings. Rabba b. b. ’Hana said in 
the name of Johanan: R. Mair’s prohibition concerns images 
erected in the gates of the place. It was taught, Rabba said: 
The rabbis allow only the use of ‘city images, as these are but 
ornaments and not idols, but they prohibit the images of the 
villages which are worshipped idols. 

‘““ The sages say,’’ etc. This prohibition is based upon the 
following reasons: The staff in the hand of the idol is an indica- 
tion that it submits itself to the whole world. The bird in the 
hand of the idol indicates that, like the bird, it sacrifices itself 
for the world. Finally, the sphere is to indicate that it sacri- 
fices itself for the whole globe. Later on the prohibition was 
extended also to idols with a sword in hand, a crown on the 


head, or a seal-ring on the finger. Formerly the belief was cur- 
82 





a a - . : 
SYS Se treten ates ya or 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 83 


rent that the sword is no divine emblem, but that of a robber; 
but it was learned later that an image with a sword symbolizes | 
him who has sacrificed himself for the whole world. As for the 
crown, it was regarded an insignificant wreath, but later experi- 
ence showed it to represent a king’s diadem. Finally, the seal- 
ring was always believed to be the token of a slave, but later 
experience taught that an image with such a ring represents 
him who resolved to die for the whole world. 

MISHNA J//.: If one finds fragments of images, he is 
allowed to use them. However, if he finds fragments in form 
of a hand or a foot, they are prohibited, for such are worshipped. 

GEMARA: Samuel said: Even fragments of a worshipped 
idol are allowed. But does not the Mishna call for fragments 
of images? The Mishna appends the prohibition as regards even 
the hand or foot of an image, wherefor it uses the word image 
also before; but in fact implies the allowance of fragments of an 
idol, too. But why should these be prohibited, being, as they 
are, only fragments, and such are allowed by Samuel? Samuel 
explains this prohibition of the Mishna thus: If one finds a hand 
or a foot which he perceives is not broken off an idol, but has 
the form of objects specially prepared for worship, it is then 
prohibited, for the heathens erect a kind of altar for such ob- 
jects, where they put them for worship. 

It was taught: R. Johanan prohibits an idol that was broken 
by itself (z.¢., without the codperation of a human being), while 
R. Simeon b. Lakish allows it. The former advances the reason 
that the broken idol was not yet profaned by any one, while 
according to the latter, the breaking is sufficient profanation, 
for people would say: How could this idol save others when it 
cannot save itself? R. Johanan objected to Resh Lakish, it 
reads [I Sam. v. 4, 5]: “‘ And the head of Dagon and both the 
palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold. . , . There- 
fore do the priests of Dagon. . . not step on the threshold of 
Dagon,’’ etc. (whence it is obvious that an idol, even when 
broken by itself, is still held sacred by the heathens!) Here- 
upon the other replied: This proves nought against my opinion; 
the heathen, in the cited case, said that the supreme god has 
abandoned the Dagon, dragged up to the threshold of the tem- 
ple, and only then he was reconciled, wherefore they regard the 
threshold as sacred, but not morethe Dagon. Then R. Johanan 
went on to object: The Mishna allows the using of fragments 
from images, whence it follows that fragments from images but 


84 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


not from actual idols are allowed; and R. Simeon b. Lakish 
rejoined: Thus, you must needs infer that only broken images 
are allowed to the exclusion of whole images that are forbidden, 
since the Mishna here is not concerned with idols; and this ‘is 
R. Mair’s opinion, quoted without the mention of his name. 
This admitted, the following may be advanced against R. 
Johanan’s view, remembering that we conclude from the words 
of R. Mair to those of the rabbis: R. Mair prohibits whole 
images, but allows fragments therefrom; hence we say: The 
rabbis prohibit whole idols, but fragments therefrom they, too, 
allow. Why, then, does R. Johanan forbid idol fragments? 
Simply because images do not have the same relations as idols 
and are not, therefore, comparable with them, for as to images 
it is wholly uncertain whether or not they were worshipped. 
Assuming, then, that they had been worshipped and we after- 
ward found a broken image, are we not justified in further 
assuming that some one has broken it purposely, whereby it has 
been indeed profaned, and thus its use is allowed? On the 
other hand, regarding real idols, it is certain that they were wor- 
shipped; what is uncertain here is whether the found broken 
idol was of itself broken or by the codperation of a human being. 
Now, it is well known that an uncertainty cannot negate a cer- 
tainty ; and it is on the basis of these considerations that broken 
images are allowed and broken idols are forbidden. R. Johanan 
was further arguing: It is taught that a heathen can profane the 
idol of his fellow heathen as well as his own, while an Israelite 
cannot profane the idol of a heathen. Why, then, should we 
not consider an idol profaned by an Israelite as one broken of 
itself? Said Abayi, The foregoing teaching is to be thus under- 
stood: Only then is the idol not profaned, when the Israelite by 
means of hammer exerted pressure upon its face. But have we 
not learned that such pressure, even if not attended with break- 
ing, suffices to profane the idol? Well, this is to say that when 
the heathen does it, but not when an Israelite, who, in order to 
profane an idol, must break off a piece therefrom. Rabba, how- 
ever, said: Properly speaking, the idol is profaned when the 
Israelite presses in its face; however, the rabbis feared, lest the 
Israelite should preserve such an idol before its face is pressed 
in by him, and then, upon becoming the possession of an Israel- 
ite, it cannot be any longer profaned. R. Johanan advanced 
yet another objection: It was taught: When a heathen uses the 
stones of Markuliss to pave therewith a street or a theatre, an 


Sa a ee ee - > 
ey) a eR . 


pe oe 
SA 


= See i 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). _ 85 


Israelite is allowed to tread upon such pavement; but he is pro- 
hibited therefrom if an Israelite paved with these stones. Why 
should not the stones be regarded like an idol that breaks of itself? 
This prohibition was promulgated for the same reason indicated 
above by Rabha. He made a further objection from the follow- 
ing: If a heathen breaks off a piece from an idol for his own use, 
the idol is thereby profaned and the Israelite is therefore allowed 
to use it as well as the severed piece. If, however, the heathen 
did it with a view to embellish the idol,’ it is not profaned 
thereby, and is consequently prohibited; the piece, however, is 
allowed. But if this be done by an Israelite, both idol and piece 
are forbidden; because this case is considered analogous to that 
of an idol broken of itself? This prohibition is likewise based 
upon the foregoing declaration of Rabha. 

Then R. Simeon b. Lakish raised the following objection to 
R. Johanan’s opinion: A bird’s nest on the top of a tree belong- 
ing to the temple is prohibited to derive benefit therefrom, but 
if one has derived such, no sin-offering is obligatory. However, 
such a nest when on atree of a grove is allowed to be pulled down 
by a pipe and to be made use of; now, as in all probability the 
birds use for their nests the wood of the tree they inhabit, these 
nests are allowed, whence it would follow that the use of a self- 
broken idol is likewise allowed? Nay, not at all: Here, in the 
case of the bird’s nest that is allowed, such nests are spoken of 
for the building of which it is known with certainty the birds 
take the materials from other trees and not from the idol grove. 
R. Abuhu in the name of R. Johanan, however, said: In the 
Boraitha it is not the nests, but rather the young birds of the 
nests that are concerned. The young birds are allowed, pro- 
vided their nest is pulled down by a pipe (since climbing upon 
the tree, if allowed, may lead also to the using of the forbidden 
tree itself). Said R. Jacobto R. Jeremiah b. To’hlipha: Let me 
explain to you the Halakha in question: The birds in the nests 
of trees belonging to the temple as well as groves, are allowed, 
for they fly around; but the eggs in these are forbidden, for 
they, remaining as they do in the place, derive use from the 
tree; hence, if I take the eggs, I likewise derive some use from 
the tree indirectly. Said R. Ashi: Young birds unable to fly 
are subject to the same rule with the eggs. 

MISHNA ///.: If one finds vessels with the image of the 
sun, moon, or of a dragon on them, he must throw them into 
the salt lake. R. Simeon b. Gamaliel said: Only when these 


86 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


vessels are of a distinguished character they are forbidden, while 
insignificant vessels with such images on are allowed. 

GEMARA: This Mishna would lead to the conclusion that 
the heathens worship only the sun, the moon, and the dragon. 
However, I am in a position to prove that they worship yet 
other objects. There is a Thosephtha: If one slaughter an ani- 
mal in the name of the sea, the rivers, the desert, the sun, the 
moon, stars, planets, or the name of the archangel Michael, or 
even in that of the smallest gnat, it is considered an offering to 
the dead. Abayi solved this difficulty thus: The heathens, it 
is true, are worshipping many an object, but as regards images 
they worship only those of the objects mentioned in the Mishna; 
other images serve but to decorate houses and towns. R. 
Sheshith, who was gathering Mishnaioth for explaining them, 
taught thus: The images of all the planets are allowed, except- 
ing those of the sun and the moon. All statues are allowed, 
excepting those of a human being. All pictures are allowed, 
excepting the image of a dragon. 

The master said: The images of all the planets are allowed, 
etc. How is the case? If to make these images, this is ex- 
pressly prohibited, as it reads [Exod. xx. 23]: “‘ You shall not 
make beside me ’’—that is to say, not to make any representa- 
tions of my servants in heaven. Hence, what is allowed by the 
master is not the making, but the finding of such images, which 
is in accord with the Mishna inasmuch as it prohibits only those 
of the sun and moon. But again, is not the finding of a statue 
of a person allowed in the Mishna by implication, while he for- 
bids it? Must we not say, then, that it is the making that is 
concerned here and is in accord with R. Huna b. Jehoshua? 
Assuming then that the allowance concerns the making, we are 
confronted with another difficulty: The last statement prohibits 
the reproduction of a dragon, which is by law allowed; we 
should then of necessity have to teach that it is the finding that 
is allowed, which is in accordance with the Mishna, so that of 
the three statements in the Boraitha the first and third refer to 
the finding, while the middle one to the making? Thereupon 
said Abayi that it is so. Rabha, however, asserted that the 
three statements have all reference to the finding, and as for the 
statue of a person, he says, the Boraitha is in accordance with 
the following: R. Jehudah prohibits also found vessels with the 
image of anurse or of aserapisonthem. The nurse signifies Eva, 
who was nurse to the whole world; serapis signifies Joseph, who 





ee ee 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 87 


was a prince and supplied the whole world with bread, thereby 
appeasing mankind. The human image and that of a nurse are 
however, prohibited only when having respectively a measure in 
the hand and a son inthe arms whom she is nursing. The rabbis 
taught: How does the prohibited dragon image look? Said R. 
Simeon b. Elazar, it has scales between the joints. R. Assi con- 
fines these to the neck joints only. Said R.’Hama b. Chanina: 
The Halakha prevails with R. Simeon b. Elazar. Rabbah b. b. 
"Hama said in the name of R. Jehoshua b. Levi: I was walking 
with Eliezer Hakaphar the great, when he happened to find a 
ring with the image of a dragon on it. While standing still 
before the ring he noticed a heathen boy pass, and spoke not to 
him; later an adult heathen came passing by, and to him he 
said: profane this ring (break a piece off it), and as the heathen 
did not obey, he hit him till he profaned the ring. This inci- 
dent taught him three things: (1) A heathen may profane his own 
idol as well as that of a stranger; (2) only he is capable of pro- 
faning an idol, who knows the nature of idol and idol worship, 
and (3) one may compel the heathen to profane an idol. R. 
Hanina, however, ridiculed this, saying: Was not R. Eliezer 
aware of the following Boraitha: When one saves something 
from a lion, a bear, a leopard, or from the hands of burglars, 
from a river, or picks up what the sea-waves thrust upon the 
shore, or while crossing a stream, or simply in the street, the 
theatre, or generally in a place where many people pass, all this, 
be it what it may, he can consider his own, for the owner hav- 
ing lost his property in this manner or in such a place, has surely 
abandoned the idea of finding it. In the light of this consider- 
ation it is obvious that the heathen owner of the ring, having 
lost it in the street, has renounced the hope to find it, and 
thereby profaned it as an idol; why, then, was it according to 
R. Eliezer necessary to profane it again? Abaye explained it 
thus: The owner of this ring has, it is true, given up the idea of 
getting it back as property, but continues to consider it an idol 
which, if found by a heathen, will be worshipped, and if by an 
Israelite, he will surely sell it to a heathen; hence the fact of 
being lost does not profane the idol, and R. Eliezer was in the 
right. 

“ R. Simeon 6. Gamatliel says,’’ etc. Which objects are the 
distinguished and which the insignificant ones? Said Rabh: 
Vessels that are not made wet are of the former sort; Samuel, 
however, maintains that vessels used to eat in are of the insig- 


88 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


nificant, while those used as ornaments are of the distinguished 
kind. Yea, it was taught, there is a Boraitha in accordance with 
Samuel: Distinguished are the vessels found on arm-bands, nose- 
bands and finger-rings, while of the insignificant sort are, kettles, 
pans, pitchers, bed-clothes, towels (and the images found there- 
on are allowed). 

MISHNA/V.: R. Jose said: One may grind the images and 
scatter them to the wind, or sink them into the sea. Thereupon 
it was objected: They might turn into dung, and it reads [ Deut. 
xii. 18]: “‘ And there shall not cleave to thy hand aught of the 
devoted things. ”’ 

-GEMARA: There is a Boraitha: R. Jose met the objection 
by quoting [ibid. ix. 21]: “‘ And your work of sin, which ye 
have made, the calf, I took and burnt it in fire, and stamped it, 
grinding it very small, until it was as fine as dust: and I cast the 
dust thereof into the brook that descendeth from the mount.”’ 
The rabbis, however, rejoined: This does not corroborate your 
view. Moses cast the dust of the golden calf into the water not 
to destroy it thus, but in order that he might give this mixed 
water to the Israelites to drink, thus testing who of them wor- 
shipped the calf, in the same manner as the test of the bitter 
water was applied by the priest to detect whether a woman has 
committed adultery (conf. Numb. v. 18). This is clearly shown 
from the following [ Exod. xxxii. 20]: “‘. . . he strewed it upon 
the water and made the children of Israel drink of it.’ There- 
upon replied R. Jose, quoting as follows [II Chron. xv. 16]: “* ... 
he removed Ma’chah his mother from being queen, because she 
had made a scandalous image for the grove, and Assa cut down 
her scandalous image and had it ground up, and burnt it by the 
brook Kidron,’’ which passage clearly shows that it is allowed 
to grind up the idol and scatter it to the wind. In the vale of 
Kidron, he was answered, there is no vegetation. But have we 
not learned that the blood of the sacrifices from both the inner 
and outer altar after uniting in the aqueduct was flowing into 
the vale of Kidron, where it was being sold as dung for the gar- 
dens; when one took some of this blood without paying therefor 
he was to bring a sin-offering; hence, there were gardens in the 
vale of Kidron? Yea, but there are there also great expanses 
void of all vegetation. R. Jose was then further arguing, it 
reads [II Kings, xviii. 4]: ‘‘ . .. and stamped in pieces the 
copper serpent that Moses had made,’’ etc. And it was re- 
torted: This is no corroboration of your view, for it reads 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 89 


(Numb. xxi. 8]: ‘‘ And the Lord said unto Moses, Make (to) 
thyself a serpent’’; here the word (to) ‘thyself’ indicates that 
Moses was to make the serpent of his own metal, whence it fol- 
lows that when in later times the Israelites began to worship it, 
the serpent did not become an idol whose use is forbidden, for 
others’ property, even when worshipped, cannot become an idol 
whose use is prohibited; accordingly, King Hiskia was not 
obliged to destroy the serpent in question, but had in some way 
or other to render it impossible to be the object of worship for 
the Israelites. Rejoined R. Jose, hence [II Sam. v. 21]: ‘‘ And 
they left their idols there; but David and his men scattered 
them ’’; hence, scattering suffices (and that R. Jose interpreted 
the word Vaissuom = scattered them—correctly, may be shown 
yet from R. Joseph’s interpretation of [Is. xli. 16]: ‘*‘ Scatter 
them so that the wind carry them off.’’) Hewas again answered: 
Nor does this quotation bear you out, for it reads [I Chron. xiv. 
12]: “‘ And they left their idols there, and David had them burn 
with fire.’’ Now that the first-cited verse is from II Samuel, 
and this one from I Chronicles, the two cannot be understood 
literally; but the right inference is that word vaissuom means: 
he picked them up, 2z.e., he carried them off in order to make 
use of them. The apparent contradictions of the two quoted 
verses are explained by R. Huna thus: At first David ordained 
to burn the idols, since the Israelites could not possibly profane 
them; but before this order was executed, the heathen, Ithai 
the Gethite, had come and profaned the idols, whereupon their 
use became permitted, and therefore David had them carried 
away. Similarly we find [II Sam. xii. 30]: “‘ And he took the 
Crown of Malkam from off his head; its weight was a talent of 
gold and had precious stones, and had it put upon the head of 
David’’; now, how could he make use of the crown of an idol? 
It was again Ithai the Gethite who, according to R. Na’hman, 
had first profaned it. But look here, how could David's head 
carry a crown of a talent? R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh 
explains this figuratively to mean: The crown was worthy of 
adorning the head of David. However, R. Joseb. ’Hanina said 
that the crown was kept in the air by the force of amagnet, and 
David was sitting beneath it, so that it looked as if he had it 
on. But R. Elazar said: David actually had the crown on his 
head, but it was not of a talent weight, as it consisted only of 
precious stones, its worth amounted to that of a talent in gold. 
It reads [Psalm, cxix. 56]: ‘‘ 747s was accorded to me, because 


90 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


I observed thy commands.’’ What is the word “ this’’ to em- 
phasize here? David wants to point out ¢hzs testimonial he 
obtained for the said observance. What testimonial? Said R. 
Jehoshua b. Levi: This is the crown which had the peculiarity 
to fit only (to) him who possessed the kingdom, and the fitting was 
on the spot where the Thephelin are carried. [II Kings, xi. 12]: 
‘“‘ And he brought forth the King’s son, and put the crown upon 
him, and (gave him) the testimony.’’ The crown is the princely 
diadem, but what is the ‘‘testimony’’? Said R. Jehudah in 
the name of Rabh: This crown was itself testimony in the same 
time, as it fitted only him to whom the kingdom belonged, z.e., 
to the house of David. 

It reads [I Kings, i. 5]: “‘ And Adoniyah, the son of Chag- 
gith, exalted himself, saying, I shall be king, and he procured 
himself a chariot and horsemen and fifty men who ran before 
him.’’ Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: Adoniyah imag- 
ined that the crown will fit him, but this was not the case. 
What kind of distinctive marks had the mentioned forerunners? 
We were told that their spleens were cut out, and the flesh was 
removed from their footsoles in order that they might run with 
greater speed. 

MISHNA V.: Peroklas, the son of a philosopher, asked 
once R. Gamaliel at Ako, who was then bathing in the bath of 
the goddess Aphrodite: Your law prescribes [Deut. xiii. 17]: 
““Let nothing of the devoted objects cleave to thy hands’’; 
why, then, do you bathe in the bath of Aphrodite? And he 
answered: Such questions are not answered—at a bathing place. 
After he had left the bath he said: I am not come into her 
domain, but it is she that is come into mine; truly, people do 
not say: The bath is erected to adorn the Aphrodite, but the 
Aphrodite is to ornate the bath; moreover, you would not agree 
for any amount of money to appear before your idol when you 
are naked or urinating. The Aphrodite, however, stands on 
the channel, and everybody urinates in front of her. The law 
says their gods, z.¢., to say such toward whom one behaves with 
dignity inspired by something divine; while whatever does not 
inspire such a behavior, is allowed. 

GEMARA: Why did R. Gamaliel at all answer z” the bath ? 
Has not Rabba b. b. Hana said in the name of R. Johanan: 
Everywhere but in the bath and toilet it is allowed to speculate 
upon subjects of the Law? Is it, you think, because he an- 
swered him not in the holy tongue? Has not Abayi said that 


4 
1 
3 
; 
j 











TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 91 


indifferent matters may be spoken of in the holy tongue and be 
it in the bath or toilet room, while holy subjects must not be 
discussed in these places, not even in another tongue (than the 
holy one)? There is a Boraitha: R. Gamaliel gave, indeed, no 
answer, until he had left the bath, when he said: In a bathing 
place one is not to answer. R.’Hama b. Joseph said in the 
name of R. Oshia: R. Gamaliel gave Peroklas an evasive an- 
swer; but 7 (Hama) say it was not evasive. The evasiveness of 
the answer apparently consisted in that he said, this (Aphrodite) 
stands on the channel, and everybody urinates in front of her; 
thereby R. Gamaliel wanted to prove that the Aphrodite is pro- 
faned and he may, therefore, use her, which is not the case; 
because Rabha said: The front site of the very idol Peor is used 
as a toilet-room, and yet it is not profaned thereby; conse- 
quently, the Aphrodite is not profaned either by the fact of 
urinating before her. None the less, I am about to prove that 
R. Gamaliel’s answer was, after all, not evasive. The Peor and 
the Aphrodite are incomparable; the worship of the former con- 
sists in excrementing before it, while that of Aphrodite was not 
of this kind, wherefore she is actually profaned thereby. 
Abayi, however, said: The evasiveness lies in his saying, I am 
not come into her domain, but she is come into mine, where- 
by he surely meant that if he came into her domain, she would 
be prohibited, which is not the case, since we have learned 
that a garden or a bath-house belonging to an idol, is al- 
lowed when offered gratis, but not for pay. Thus R. Gamaliel 
was allowed to bathe there even if the place belonged to the 
Aphrodite, hence, the evasiveness of his answer; but I say this 
was not evasive because assuming that the bath belonged to the 
Aphrodite, R. Gamaliel could not go in there, for the heathens 
_ would have considered it a honor if so distinguished a personage 
had gone to their bath and be it gratis. R. Simi b. ’Hyye said: 
The evasiveness in the answer did not consist in what has been 
here recited, but in what R. Gamaliel said further: It stands on 
the channel and everybody, etc., whereby he intends to indicate 
that the Aphrodite is profaned, whereas we have learned that 
by spitting or urinating before the idol, or by dragging it in the 
dirt, one does not profane it; but I (Simi) say it was not evasive, 
as such act as described here one may have committed once 
when moved perhaps by anger, but then he might become rec- 
onciled; while there, in the case of the Aphrodite, this takes 
place daily and is therefore a real profanation. Rabba b. Ula 


92 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


said: R. Oshia thought to have found the evasive point in what 
R. Gamaliel said: People do not say that the bath-house is 
erected to adorn the Aphrodite, but, etc., whence it would fol- 
low that if the reverse were the case, the visiting of the bath 
would be forbidden, whereas we have learned: When one says, 
this house or this goblet be devoted to the idol, he said nothing, 
for only such objects as are actually sacrificed to the idol, are 
forbidden. Hence, the bath in question would not be prohib- 
ited. And I, Rabba, say: R. Gamaliel’s answer was after all 
not evasive, because admitting that the bath-house is not offered 
as a sacrifice to the idol, it is none the less put up as a decora- 
tion for it, and then it would indeed be prohibited. 

MISHNA VZ.: The mountains and hills worshipped by 
heathens are allowed to use, but not the things brought upon 
them, for it reads [Deut. vii. 25]: “‘ Thou shalt not covet the 
silver or gold that is on them, so that thou wouldst take it unto 
thyself.’’ R. Jose the Galilean says, it reads [ibid. xii. 2]: 
‘* Their gods on the mountains,’’ but not their mountains as 
gods; ‘‘ their gods on the hills,’’ but not their hills as gods. 
Why, then, isa grove prohibited? Because it is established by 
the hand of man, and whatever is made by human hand is for- 
bidden. Hereupon said R. Aqiba: I should explain and inter- 
pret this statement thus: Wherever you find a high mountain, 
an elevated hill, a leafy tree, there is surely an idol there. 

GEMARA: What is the point of difference between the 
opinion expressed by the first Tana of the Mishna and that of 
R. Jose? Said Rami b. ’Hama in the name of Resh Lakish: It 
concerns the covering of mountains, which the former prohibits 
by reason of its having been brought up on the mountain, while 
the latter ‘allows it because, being, as it is, fastened to the moun- 
tain, it is to be treated as the mountain itself. R. Sheshith, 
however, said: Nay; R. Jose, too, prohibits it, and their point 
of difference is in the following: A tree worshipped after it has 
been planted and grown to be big, is, according to the first 
Tana of the Mishna, allowed by reason of its being worshipped __ 
after it has taken root on the mountain, while R. Jose prohibits 
it because it was planted by human hands. This view is shared 
also by R. Jose b.° Jehudah, who says, it reads [Deut. xii, 2]: 
‘“Ye shall utterly destroy all the places whereon .. . (they) 
served their gods, upon the high mountains, and upon the hills, _ 





and under every green tree,’’ whence it follows that the gods ps 
on the mountains, and not the mountains themselves, are for- __ 








EW A AS Freee Stain a te 


/ 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 93 


bidden; similarly with the hills. Lest the inference be drawn 
that what is put under the tree is forbidden but not the tree 
itself, it reads in the next verse: “‘ Their groves ye shall burn 
with fire,’’ z.e., the tree is likewise prohibited. But why is it 
stated: ‘‘ Under every green tree’’? This is explained in the 
sense of R. Agiba’s statement in the Mishna. Now, how does 
the first Tana of the Mishna, who allows the tree, explain the 
verse, Their groves, etc.? He understands this to mean such 
groves that were originally planted for worship, and they are 
forbidden, but trees not purposely planted for worship are 
allowed even when worshipped later. On what does R. Jose b. 
Jehudah base this, his view, if not on the verse ‘‘ Their groves,”’ 
etc.?. On the following [ibid. vii. 5]: ‘‘ Their groves ye shall 
cut down,’’ whence it is obvious that only what is cut down is 
forbidden, but not the roots, and this can be only with a tree wor- 
shipped after it has been planted. Now the question arises, 
how does the first Tana of the Mishna infer from this last verse? 
What R. Jehoshua b. Levi said: As the Israelites came into 
the promised land, they were ordained to cut down all the 
groves they might find before, and to burn the trees after the 
conquest of the land had been completed. Wherefore the one 
verse speaks of hewing down, and the other of burning, the 
groves. As R. Joseph reads [ibid. vii. 5]: ‘‘ Ye shall tear down 
their altars,;’’ and there is here no call for carrying them off, hence 
they must be left where they are; ‘* Ye shall break their pillars,’’ 
and no mention is made of carrying them off. But how can 
R. Joseph say that these objects be left in their places, when it 
is obligatory to burn all things belonging to the idol? R. Huna 
said: Prosecute first and then burn. Whence is this order of 
events known to R. Joseph? From [ibid. xii. 2]: ‘‘ Abed- 
theabdun,’’ the one meaning literally : to destroy, ye shall de- 
stroy, hence it is a reference to two successive events. As to 
the first Tana, he understands this redundancy as calculated to 
indicate that both idol and all its belongings, the subterranean 
included, be utterly annihilated. While R. Jose b. Jehudah 
infers this radical destruction from [ibid. xii. 3]: ‘‘ And ye shall 
annihilate their names from the same place.’’ The first Tana, 
however, explains this as to mean: A town or place bearing the 
name of an idol should be renamed. Here is a Boraitha to this 
effect. R. Eliezer says: The verse, Ye shall annihilate their 
name, etc., means that while annihilating an idol it is obligatory 
to search also under the ground for its belongings. Said R, 


94 _ THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Aqiba to him: This obligation is inferred from the foregoing 
redundancy of ‘‘ to destroy and you shall destroy,’’ while the 
last-mentioned verse is to indicate that a town bearing the name 
of anidol must be renamed. As to the nature of the new name, 
it must not be indifferent, z.e., neither a honor nor a disgrace to 
the idol, for it reads [ibid. 7]: ‘‘ Thou shalt utterly detest it and 
thou shalt utterly abhor it for it is accursed,’’ hence, the name 
must always be either a detest or abhorrence. £.g., if the name 
was originally Beth Galia, z.e., House of revelation change it to 
Beth Karia, z.e., House of concealing; Ein Kol, z.e., The all- 
seeing eye, change to Ein Kotz, z.¢., the thorn-eye. 

The schoolmen propounded the following doctrine in the 
presence of R. Sheshith: Mountains and hills worshipped by 
heathens are allowed, but the worshippers should be executed 
by sword. Worshipped shrubs and ferns are forbidden and 
their worshippers are to be executed. Said R. Sheshith: Your 
doctrine is in accordance with R. Jose b. Jehudah, who said: A 
tree even if not planted with the purpose of worshipping it, is 
forbidden if worshipped afterward; in like manner are wor- 
shipped ferns and shrubs prohibited, though not destined for 
worship when planted. But what prompts R. Sheshith to inter- 
pret the schoolmens’ proposition regarding shrubs and ferns as 
meaning that these were not planted expressly for worship? 
Because as they are treated of together, he finds it more natural 
to say: Just as mountains and hills have not been created for 
worship, in like manner have not the ferns and shrubs been 
sowed and planted for worship. 

It was taught: If stones absolved fortuitously from a moun- 
tain rock that was worshipped, is their use allowed or not? Two 
opinions, one affirmative, the other negative, are held as regards 
this question, the contending parties being the sons of R. "Hyye 
and R. Johanan. However, the affirmative side contends that 
the stones are treated as the mountain which, if worshipped, is 
allowed by reason of its not being made by man. The objection 
that the mountain is immovable while the stone 1s movable, may 
be met thus: Worshipped cattle, though movable, is, except for 
the temple, allowed, for it does not owe its origin to man, hence 
the same may apply to the stone in question? If you were to 
dispute the comparison, one of the terms compared being pos- 
sessed of life while the other one not, it may be answered that 








the mountain is also a lifeless being, but is allowed; the conclu. 


sion returns, for a mountain is not like cattle and wice versa; 


7 














ee = 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 95 


but their common point is that they are not made by man, 
hence the inference that all objects not made by man are 
allowed, and the stones here are of this category. 

Asked Rami b. ’Hama: Is it allowed to use the stones of a 
worshipped mountain for an altar, or it is here a case analogous 
to that of a worshipped cattle which cannot be offered as sacri- 
fice, though it is allowed to slaughter it and to eat the meat 
thereof? The two are hardly analogous: the cattle is itself sac- 
rificed, while here the stones are first blasted off, and besides 
they are not sacrificed as such. Therefore the two cases cannot 
follow the same rules. Rabha decides the case by an a fortiori 
argument—viz: The law permits to make common use of a pros- 
titute’s remuneration, regardless of whether it is of a movable 
or immovable nature, but it is prohibited to use even the lat- 
ter for God, as it reads [Deut. xxiii. 88]: ‘‘ Thou shalt not 
bring unto the house of the Lord either the reward of a prosti- 
tute nor the exchange for a dog’’; whence the conclusion: since 
the movable worshipped object is forbidden even for common 
use, the more so will an immovable worshipped object be for- 
bidden for God. Said R. Huna b. R. Jehoshua to Rabha: 
Since the provision of the Law with reference to the immovable 
remuneration of the prostitute is not specific, the process of 
your @ fortiori argument may rather be reversed, z.¢., we may 
reason from the rigorous to the lenient thus: We know that 
worshipped movable objects are prohibited even to man, and 
yet the immovable is allowed for the temple, because it reads: 
“Their gods on the mountains’’ to exclude the mountains 
which are not regarded as gods and which are therefore allowed; 
consequently, since the prostitute’s reward, which is not treated 
so rigorously as worshipped mountains, is even if movable 
allowed to man, the more should it be allowed, in its immovable 
form, for the case of the temple. This, my view, can by no 
means be objected to from the phrase zxzto the house of the fore- 
going verse, which you might attempt to interpret thus: If one 
give to the prostitute as her reward a tree ora stone grave, these 
objects are not to be used for the amelioration of the temple; be- 
cause the said phrase has a totally different meaning, as is shown 
from the following Boraitha: ‘‘ Thou shalt not bring it into the 
house of thy Lord,’’ whence it follows that it is allowed to pur- 
chase for the prostitute’s reward a red cow, for such one is not 
brought into the Lord’s house, but was burnt outside the city; so 
said R. Eliezar, while the sages held: The phrase zxto the house 




















96 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


teaches that it is prohibited to take the said reward in order to 
buy for it gold wherewith to decorate the walls of the temple. 
Rejoined Rabha: As in this case the reasoning may be pursued 
both from the rigorous to the lenient and from the lenient to 
the rigorous, we must take account of the established rule to 
reason from the rigorous to the lenient, and not vice versa. Said 
R. Papa to Rabha: Ye cannot prove the foregoing rule to be 
inconvertible, as we find a case where it was proposed to reason 
from the lenient to the rigorous: when the day of preparation 
to Passover happens to be on a Sabbath and there was one who, 
having become unclean through contact with a dead body, 
counts on this Sabbath the last day of his uncleanness, so that, : 
in order to cleanse him, the water of ashes of the red cow must 
be sprinkled upon him, an act which is not otherwise allowed to 
perform on Sabbath, R. Eliezer allows the performance of this 
act in this case in order that the unclean one receive his cleansing, 
as it was his duty to eat from the Easter lamb. R. Agiba, 
however, forbids it. Thus you see that while R. Eliezer reasons 
from the rigorous to the lenient (compelling thereby the unclean 
to eat from the Easter lamb), R. Aqiba reasons from the lenient 
to the rigorous (freeing thereby the unclean from this duty). 
Hereupon rejoined Rabha: This case is not apt to prove any- 
thing; the opinion of neither one is correct; it was R. Eliezer 
himself who once taught to R. Agiba that sprinkling of the 
ashes on Sabbath is forbidden, but he then forgot all about it, 
so that his disciple, R. Aqiba, attempted to gently remind him 
in the above controversy; but as he did retract his view, R. 
Agqiba said to him: All your reasoning cannot convince me, for 
you told me yourself that the sprinkling on Sabbath is in this 
case forbidden. 

MISHNA V/Z.: If a house situated close by a worship-house 
of an idol crumbles down, its owner is prohibited from rebuild- ~ 
ing it, but he must recede four ells into his property and then 
build; but if the house and the said worship-place have the wall 
in common he should count in a half of the thickness of the 
wall. Stones, wood, and rubbish thereof are defiling as reptiles; 
for it reads [Deut. vii. 26:] ‘‘ Thou shalt detest it.”’ R.Agiba 
said, it is defiling like a menstruant woman, for it resds[Isa. 
xxx. 22]: “‘ Thou wilt cast them away like Dovoh (menstrua- — 
tion),’’ 2.é., as a menstruant woman defiles by carrying, so an 
idol, too. aes Bri 

GEMARA: But if the wall recedes four ells the idol will — 


ae 














TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 97 


thereby become more spacious! Said R. ’Hanina of Sura: This 
space should be made a toilet-room, or a hedge of thorns be 
fenced between the idol and the vacant space. 

MSHNA V//I.: There are three kinds of houses: (1) a 
house originally built for idol worship is prohibited; (2) if calci- 
mined, repaired or somewhat renewed for idol-worship, then it 
is necessary to take off it only the new additions; (3) a house 
into which an idol was placed but thereafter removed from it, 
is allowed. 

GEMARA: Rabh said: A house that is worshipped is pro- 
hibited; whence it is manifest that he shared the opinion that 
a movable object rendered immovable (like a house that is made 
up of movable materials) and then worshipped, must be treated 
as if it were still movable, and is therefore forbidden. And 
when the Mishna limits the prohibition only to a house origin- 
ally built for idol-worship, thus allowing by implication a house 
built without such express purpose, it is because it treats of a 
house which was immediately upon its completion destined for 
idol-worship, but has not yet been worshipped, and prohibits it 
none the less; while Rabh forbids it after it has been wor- 
shipped. But if such be the case, the Mishna would have four 
points to treat of instead of three! The answer is that a house 
originally destined for idol-worship and a house that was already 
worshipped are treated of alike, hence the Mishna regards but 
three laws. 

MISHNA J/X.: There are three kinds of stones: (1) a 
stone originally hewn for a statue is prohibited; (2) if calcimined 
and decorated, or otherwise somewhat renewed for idol-worship, 
then only the new additions must be taken away; (3) if one had 
placed an idol upon it but it was afterward removed, it is 
allowed. | | 

GEMARA: R. Ami said: Acalcimined and decorated stone 
is forbidden only when the lime penetrates it through its crev- 
ices. However, since the provisions of the houses precede those 
of the stones, and a calcimined house is forbidden it would ap- 
pear natural to prohibit a stone, too, even when the lime has 
not penetrated it. But the fact is that the house is forbidden 
also because the lime penetrates its walls; otherwise it would 
not be forbidden. However, as the Mishna makes no mention 
of this circumstance, we could suppose thus: When a house 
once calcimined is afterward again calcimined and only there- 
after used for idol-worship, the lime could not penetrate such 


98 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


a house, and yet it is prohibited; hence, R. Ami’s words must 
be understood as follows: The stone is allowed provided the 
lime that penetrated its crevices when calcimined has been after- 
ward removed. And if not for this, R. Ami’s statement, it 
would have been plausible to believe that such a stone, the lime 
having penetrated it, must be treated as one originally hewn for 
a statue and is therefore forbidden. 

MISHNA X.: There are three kinds of groves: (1) a tree 
originally planted for idol-worship is prohibited; (2) if it was 
clipped and trimmed or somehow otherwise altered for the idol, 
only the alterations must be removed; (3) a tree under which an 
idol was put, but thereafter destroned: is allowed. 

GEMARA: Said the disciples of R. Janai: The clipped and 
trimmed tree spoken of in the Mishna is prohibited only when 
branches were engrafted thereon, but not when it was merely 
trimmed. Nowthat the Mishna makes no mention of this re- 
striction, the foregoing statement must be thus understood: If 
branches are engrafted in such a tree but then removed, it is 
allowed; and if not for this statement one could entertain the 
opinion that a tree in this condition must be treated as one orig- 
inally planted for idol-worship, and is therefore forbidden. 

R. Samuel said: When a worshipped tree sends forth, after 
being worshipped, new twigs, they, too, are prohibited. R. 
Elazar objected thereto on the ground that the Mishna prohibits 
the tree only when clipped and trimmed or somehow otherwise 
altered, without mentioning aftergrowth. This apparent con- 
tradiction (between Samuel and the Mishna) is thus explained: 
The Mishna gives the opinion of the rabbis, who allow a tree 
not purposely planted, but afterward used, for worship; the 
Mishna accordingly allows all that grew on the tree after its 
being worshipped; while Samuel shares the opinion of R. Jose 
b. Jehuda, who forbids such a tree unconditionally, and there- 
fore he prohibits its aftergrowth, too. This explanation R. Ashi 
opposed: Is it at all necessary to assume that Samuel differs 
with the rabbis? Maybe they, too, hold that the branches grow- 
ing after the worshipping are forbidden? The point of differ- 
ence in the respective opinions of the rabbis and R. Jose consists 
in that the former allow the roots of the worshipped tree on the 
basis of the verse, ‘‘ Their groves ye shall cut down,”’ hence, 
only this is forbidden that can be cut down, but not the roots; 
while R. Jose prohibits also the roots on the ground of “‘ Their 
groves ye shall burn with fire’’; hence, wholly destroy, root as 














! 
; 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 99 


wellasstem. And lest one say: The rabbis based their opinion 
upon the verse referred to by R. Jose, who himself made use of 
the rabbis’ verse, whence it would follow that he, thus allowing 
the roots, too, differs with the rabbis only in respect of the 
aftergrowth, which he forbids, while they allow it, R. Ashi 
would meet this objection as follows: This cannot be proven, 
since R. Jose has never positively cited the verse ‘‘ Their groves 
ye shall cut down,’’ the imputation is therefore unfounded; 
hence, we may say that it is not his opinion. However, the 
above-quoted verses admit of an explanation in a reversed man- 
ner, notably: R. Jose prohibits the roots which the rabbis allow, 
but as for the branches, newly grown after the worship, the 
rabbis, too, prohibit them; hence, Samuel is of the same opinion 
with the rabbis. Also this argument was objected to thus: If 
such be the case, according to whom is the statement that pro- 
hibits the trimmed and clipped tree, thus allowing by implica- 
tion the aftergrowth? It is not according to the rabbis prohib- 
ited, as they prohibit it ‘even if the tree is not trimmed; nor is 
it in accordance with R. Jose, the author, as he prohibits not 
only the aftergrowth, but also the roots. (Said R. Ashi): The 
Mishna can indeed be explained in the sense of either party; for 
R. Jose forbids the roots of the tree only when they are not cut 
and trimmed; but as soon as the tree has been clipped and 
trimmed, it is manifest that the tree was the object of worship, 
not in its present shape, but only in that appearing after the 
trimming; this R. Jose forbids, but the roots in such case he, 
too, declares allowed. Now, in the sense of the rabbis, the 
Mishna says: ‘‘If it was clipped and trimmed,’’ and it was 
thought that this statement runs contrary to the opinion of the 
rabbis, who prohibit aftergrowth. But the fact is that the 
Mishna uses this expression, lest the belief be entertained that 
the clipping and trimming cause also the roots to be forbidden; 
hence the expression of the Mishna: ‘‘ Only the alterations 
must be removed, all the rest is allowed.’’ 

MISHNA XZ: What is a grove? A tree with an idol under 
it. R. Simeon said: Any tree that is worshipped. In Cidon 
there was once a tree that was worshipped, and a heap was 
found under it. R. Simeon said: Search this heap. The heap 
was searched and an image was found underneath; whereupon 
he decided: As they worship only the image, we may allow the 
tree. . 

GEMARA: The Mishna asks now what is an idol-grove; 


100 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


have we not learned in the preceding Mishna that there are 
three sorts of idol-groves? This istrue; however, in reference to 
the first two kinds, all agree, while with regard to the last kind, 
the other sages differ with R. Simeon, who upholds that it cannot 
be at all called an idol-grove. What, then, is the criterion 
whereby to distinguish a tree as an idol-grove? Said Rabh: 


When priests sitting under a tree abstain from eating its fruit, 


it must be an idol tree. Samuel said: A date tree is to be 
regarded an idol when priests who are picking its dates say: 
““ These dates are for the house of Nezraphi’’; because they 
prepare of these dates beer in which they indulge in the said 
house. Said Amemar: I have heard from the elders of Pumbe- 
ditha that the Halakha prevails with Samuel. 

MISHNA X/Z.: It is not allowed to sit down in the shade 
of such a tree; if, however, one chanced to sit there, he is clean. 
Nor is it allowed to pass under it, and if one did pass he is un- 
clean. If its branches inclined upon the public grounds and one 
passes under it, he is clean. 

GEMARA: “ Jf one chanced to sit down he ts clean.’’ Is not 
this self-evident, since he did not touch the tree? Said Rabba 
b. b. Hana in the name of R. Johanan: This is merely to state 
that sitting in the shade of the height of the tree does not de- 
file. Shall we assume that he is allowed to sit down? Nay; it 
comes to teach us that even if he sat down under the tree itself, 
he is also clean. 

‘* Nor ts tt allowed,’’ etc. The reason of this uncleanness 
is this: It is positively to be assumed that under such a tree 
there are always remnants of idol sacrifices which are, according 
to R. Jehudah b. Bethira, capable of defiling him who is with 
them under the same shelter. As in the following Boraitha, R. 
Jehuda b. Bethira said: We know that idol sacrifices defile 
whatever is with them under the same shelter, from [ Psalm, cvi. 
28]: ‘‘ And they joined themselves unto Ba’al Pe’or, and ate 
the sacrifices of the dead.’’ Here the sacrifice to the idol is 
compared to that of the dead; hence, as latter is defiling, so is 
former. 

““ Tf its branches,’’ etc. The schoolmen propounded the fol- 
lowing question: How should this expression be understood, as 
meaning he a/ready passed, or that all going is allowed? Said 
R. Iz’hak b. Elazar in the name of ’Hiskia: The latter is in- 
tended by the Mishna, while R. Johanan thinks the former 
meaning is the proper one. These two views may, however, be 


ee 








nite 


= ees i dali ie Se a NE ane nn ng aE ort ea ae eee 


i 


Poy hr 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 101 


reconciled thus: R. Iz’hak has in view the case where there is no 
other road, hence, necessity allows all going under the tree, while 
R. Johanan has in view the case where there was yet another one. 

In the place where R. Sheshith lived there was such a tree, 
and whenever he had to pass by it he, being blind, said to his 
guide: Pass me by as quickly as possible. (Says the Gemara): 
If there was yet another road he was not allowed there, and if 
not, he had the right to pass by here. What was, then, the 
speeding by necessary? The answer is that there was but this 
only road, and R. Sheshith, who was a prominent scholar, 
wanted (on his own account) to pass it as quickly as he could. 

MISHNA X///.: Under such a tree is allowed to sow herbs 
in the winter, but not in summer. Lettuce is not allowed to 
sow in either winter or summer. R. Jose said: Even herbs 
must not be sowed in winter either, for their leaves, when falling 
down, would turn dung for the tree. 

GEMARA: The statement of R. Jose makes it manifest 
that he is of the opinion that two causes of which one is al- 
lowed and the other one prohibited do, when working together, 
bring about a forbidden effect. (In the case before us there are 
two causes fostering the growth of the herbs: the dung and the 
soil; former is forbidden, latter allowed; hence, he prohibits the 
effect.) On the other hand, the rabbis who do not share this 
opinion allow the herbs. However, in another place (iv. Mishna 
of this chap.) we find these two contending parties interchange 
their respective views. It is true, the apparently contradictory 
tenets of R. Jose may be reconciled thus: He allows where the 
idols were ground down, as the effect here cannot even become 
dung, but in the present case the falling leaves surely turn into 
dung, hence his prohibition. But how should we explain the 
rabbis’ contradiction? It may be explained as R. Mari b. R. 
Kahana said: ‘* In proportion as the hide rises in price, one loses 
on the meat.’’ In like manner it can be said here of the herbs: 
What the dung promotes, the shade of the tree hinders; hence, 
as there is no use of the leaves, the rabbis allow. Said R. 
Jehudah in the name of Samuel: The Halakha prevails with 
R. Jose. 

Once a garden was ameliorated with the dung of an idol; 
R. Amram let interrogate R. Joseph as to how one should 
behave. with regard to the fruit of this garden, and the answer 
was: R. Jehudah said in the name of Samuel, the Halakha 
prevails with R. Jose. 


‘ 


102 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


MISHNA X/V.: To derive any benefit of wood obtained 
from an idol-grove is prohibited. The stove heated therewith 
must be destroyed if new yet, but if old already, it must be 
cooled off. Bread baked therewith is prohibited for any benefit; 
if it was mingled with other bread, they are all forbidden. R. 
Eliezar says: The worth of its benefit should be cast into the 
salt lake. However, the rabbis responded: There is no redemp- 
tion in case of idol-worship. The same is the case with a loom 
made of this wood and with the garment wrought therewith. 
If such a garment was mixed up with other garments and these 
again with others, the benefit of them all is forbidden. R. 
Eliezar, however, said: Cast their worth into the salt lake, 
and he was answered: There is no redemption from idol- 
worship. 

GEMARA: The Mishna must lay down both the cases of 
the benefit of wood, for bread-baking and for garment-making; 
for if the former case alone were stated, there would be reason 
to think that R. Eliezar allows the use of the bread only when 
its worth has been cast into the sea, for as soon as the bread 
is entered in the oven, the prohibited object, the wood, is, 
properly speaking, no more, having been consumed by the fire; 
while in the case of a garment made with the aid of such wood, 
his prohibition is absolute, since the wood is all the time in ex- 


istence. On the other hand, if the Mishna treated only the 


_ garment-making, there might rise the belief that the garment is 
forbidden by reason of the perennial existence of its instru- 
ment, while bread, where the wood was consumed by the fire, 
the rabbis agree with him. Hence, the establishment of both 
the cases. Said R. ’Hisda: I was told by Abba b. R. ’Hisda 
that Siera said, the Halakha prevails with R. Eliezar. Said R. 
Ada b. Ahaba: R. Eliezar, notwithstanding this his doctrine, 
prohibits the use of the wine in all the barrels if one cask of 
forbidden wine was mingled among them. R.’Hisda, however, 
asserts that this wine, too, is allowed by R. Eliezar, provided its 
worth has been cast into the sea. It once happened that a cask 
of forbidden wine was mixed among other casks of allowed wine; 
whereupon R. ’Hisda was interrogated as to how to behave in 
this case, and his answer was to cast four zuz into the river and 
then we will allow the wine. 

MISHNA XV.: How is the idol-worship of a tree profaned? 
If the heathen cuts down from it dry twigs or fresh branches, 
a staff or a rod, or even if he takes from it only a leaf, it is pro- 


Sr 
3 





a 
a 


Se ag ee ee ee ee eee ee 
Sei ages ns oes a ne ED Re ne a > 
Sa PO ee ei erg tee en ee ee eee es aR I 3 a x 
ng as hat SS ee re ae eR I ea ee ae ee ae ee : 
— = a ee Sh, Ar a See ae ee i ee Pe ee ee oe ne ee ee 
2 - ‘ . AES SSSR See ae ean aaa ee Sr nie ee nee eee 2s - os 


i eet ae 
eS 


Ty 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 103 


faned. If, however, all this be done in the interest of the tree, 
it remains forbidden; and if not in its interest, it is allowed. 

GEMARA: The question as to how to behave toward the 
dry twigs and other pieces cut off the tree is discussed by R. 
Huna and R. Hyya b. Rabh. The one allows and the other 
forbids the use of these objects. This positive view is borne 
out also in the following Boraitha: When a heathen trims his 
idol, the question arises, does he do it in order to use the thus 
obtained wood, or in order to adorn the idol? If former be the 
case, both the wood cut down and the idol itself are allowed, 
while in the latter case the wood is allowed but not the idol. 
If, however, the trimming was done by an Israelite, all is for- 
bidden, irrespective of the aim in view, because the idol of an 
Israelite can never be profaned. It was taught: If an idol 
broke down by itself, what is to be done? Rabhsaid: Each and 
every piece of it must be singly and severally profaned before 
its use is allowed, while Samuel maintains that an idol can be 
profaned only in its ordinary shape. But how is this to be 
understood; does not the contrary seem to be the case? Samuel 
means to say, then, that only an idol that is in its ordinary 
shape needs be profaned. The point of difference, however, 
here is concerning an idol not broken by itself but one that is 
made of small pieces, such that even a layman could put together 
ortake apart. It is of such an idol that Rabh says it is not pro- 
faned when out of its joints, because even a layman can restore 
it, while according to Samuel it is not considered as an idol as 
soon as it loses its shape. 


CHAPTER IV. 


CONCERNING OBJECTS USED FOR IDOLS.—THE MANNER IN WHICH AN 
IDOL IS PROFANED SO AS TO BE ALLOWED FOR USE.—THE DIS- 
CUSSIONS BETWEEN THE ELDERS OF ROME ON THE ONE HAND 
AND R. LAMALIEL, THE PRINCE, ON THE OTHER.—HOW TO 
PREPARE WINE IN THE POSSESSION OF A HEATHEN FOR 
-ISRAELITES. | 


MISHNA/J.: R. Ismael says: Three stones near one another 
and beside the Merkules are prohibited; two stones in this posi- 
tion are allowed. The sages, however, said: Only the stones 
that are close by it are prohibited, but those that do not appear 
to be so are allowed. 

GEMARA: The opinion of the sages is easily explained, as 
they hold that the heathens worship also the fragments of their 
idols, accordingly they prohibit only the stones that are per- 
ceptibly near the idol. But R. Ismael’s opinion presents some 
difficulty—viz: If he upholds the view that pieces are also wor- 
shipped, he should forbid also two stones; on the other hand, 
if he believes that the heathens do not worship broken idols, he 
should consistently allow also three stones near the Merkules! 
Said R. Itz’hak b. Joseph in the name of R. Johanan: The 
limit of proximity required in the Mishna is set down at four 
ells; now, R. Ismael believes that the heathen might make of the 
three stones a small Merkules beside the big one, but not of two 
stones; while the sages who do not entertain this belief merely . 
regard these stones as fragments of the Merkules, hence they 
forbid only those that are visibly belonging to it irrespective of 
their number. | : 

It once happened that the palace of King Janai was de-- 
stroyed; thereupon came heathens and erected therein a Mer- 
kules; later on others came who did not worship the Merkules, 
took the stones and paved a street therewith. Some of the 
sages abstained then from treading upon these stones, while 
others were passing there; hereupon said R. Johanan: The son 
of the saints treads on them, should we abstain therefrom? 


t04 











TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 105 


Who was this son? R. Menahem b. Simai, so called because 
he would refrain from even looking upon the face ofa coin. 
But why, this notwithstanding, were some shunning that 
street? Because they guided themselves by the opinion of R. 
Gidel, who said in the name of R. ’Hyya b. Joseph, quoting 
Rabh: Though the idol is capable of being profaned, yet the 
idol-sacrifice is not, and this admits of proof from here: ‘‘ They 
clung to the Baal Peor and ate sacrifices of the dead idols,’’ 
where a comparison is drawn between an idol-sacrifice and a 
corpse, to indicate that just as the latter remains but a corpse, 
so does the sacrifice remain unalterably an idol-sacrifice. In 
accordance with this, those sages who regarded these stones as 
_idol-sacrifices, refrained from treading thereon, while the others 
held that stones cannot be regarded as sacrifices, since only 
those objects are regarded as sacrifices that were actually offered 
in the temple, which has never been the case with stones. 

R. Joseph b. Aba narrated: Once Rabba b. Jeremiah, when 
visiting us propounded the following Boraitha: If a heathen 
takes stones from a Merkules and paves therewith the street, 
the Israelites are allowed to walk thereon; if, however, an 
Israelite did it, they are prohibited therefrom. And there is 
no artisan that could set right this Boraitha. (The difficulty is 
explained further on.) Said R. Sheshith: I, though not an 
artisan, will nevertheless attempt to explain it: The intricacy 
here implied is what R. Gidel said concerning the incapacity of 
an idol-sacrifice to be profaned, and is removed by reminding 
what has been shown above—viz: that these stones cannot be 
considered sacrifices. 

R. Na’hman says in the name of Rabba b. Abuhu, quoting 
Rabh: If the worship of an idol consists in the rapping before 
it with a cane, and one breaks a cane before the idol in its honor, 
he is liable; fiirthermore, if it was yet a new idol never before 
worshipped, this act is considered a worship and renders the 
idol forbidden as well as the broken stick which is regarded a 
sacrifice. If, however, one threw a stick before an idol the wor- 
ship of which consists in the throwing of sticks, the stick is not 
forbidden, but the thrower is liable. Thereupon said Rabha to 
R. Na’hman: The stick broken before the idol resembles the 
slaughtering in the temple, and is therefore forbidden; why, 
then, should not the cane thrown before the idol resemble the 
blood sprinkling in the temple, and be also forbidden? And he 
answered: Nay; the blood separates into drops through the 


106 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


sprinkling, while the stick, even when thrown, remains whole. 
If such be the case, why should, then, rejoined Rabha, stones 
be prohibited when thrown before the Merkules?. Answered R. 
Na’hman: I myself, knowing no answer to this, inquired of 
Rabba b. Abuhu, who, likewise ignorant of it, asked R. ’Hyya 
b. Rabh, who addressed this question to his father, Rabh, and 
he said: These stones are forbidden because when thrown before 
the Merkules they enlarge it, thereby themselves becoming idols. 
Said Rabha: This explanation is plausible if we admit that the 
idol is prohibited immediately upon its completion, z.e., before 
it was worshipped; but, as we know, there is yet the other 
opinion prohibiting it only after it was worshipped. How, then, 
according to this latter view, can the stone be forbidden? Said 
R. Na’hman: A stone thrown to Markules is, while being 
thrown, considered a sacrifice, and, upon falling in heap with 
the other stones, an idol; wherefor it renders prohibited also 
the stones lying there from before, for they were worshipped by 
its being thrown, and the stone itself is forbidden as soon as 
another was cast upon it in token of honor and worship. Re-_ 
joined Rabha: According to this explanation, the last stone 
would be allowed, inasmuch as it has not yet been worshipped. 
Said R. Na’hman: When you are only able to recognize the 
last one, go freely and take it. R. Asha, however, explained 
the matter thus: Each stone, by the fact of being thrown, is 
(as it is not worshipped otherwise) itself a sacrifice, and in the 
same time an idol for the other stone following; hence these 
stones are all forbidden. 

R. Abuhu said in the name of R. Johanan: That one is not 
liable for slaughtering a blemished animal to an idol is deduced 
hence [Exod. xx. 20]: ‘* Whoever offers to the gods beside the 
Lord be excommunicated,’’ whence it follows that liability 
attaches only to such objects as are fit to be sacrificed to the 
Lord. Said Rabha: What kind of blemish has R. Abuhu in 
view? Hardly that of the eyebrows, since an animal with such 
a defect was accepted by the descendants of Noah for a sacrifice 
in the temple of the Lord; hence he has in view such animals 
that lack a limb, and agrees in this respect with R. Eliezar, who 
said: Whence do we know that the desendants of Noah are 
prohibited from offering an animal that lacks one of its limbs? 
From [Gen. vi. 19]: ‘‘ And of every living thing, of all flesh, too,” 
etc. Living thing means such living being that wants none of 











its limbs, for from such animals sacrifices shall be offered in 











TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 107 


times to come. Thereto was objected: The expression “‘ liv- 
ing’’ means to exclude but such animals that have a defect 
wherewith they cannot survive a full year. (Rejoined R. 
Eliezar): Such have already been excluded implicitly by the 
expression [ibid. vii. 3]: ‘‘ To keep seed alive upon the face of 
all the earth,’’ since they can neither bear nor produce offspring. 
But, was retorted, how is it according to those who do not share 
this opinion as to the reproductive incapacity? To them the 
word, zhtoch, with thee, sufficiently indicates that Noah was or- 
dered to take only animals resembling him in organization, 
and, z.e., without defects. And for aught we know, Noah may 
have been himself defective? By no means; the Scripture calls 
him tamim, perfect; and that this attribute does not refer to his 
conduct is shown by the fact that he is called also zadzk, upright. 
But maybe that he was perfect in conduct and upright in his 
dealings? Nay; this is no convincing argument that Noah may 
have been defective, for, had he been such, he, following the 
order, would have surely taken in only animals resembling him. 
But now that you make use of the zhtoch to prove that Noah’s 
animals were of necessity normal, what is the other phrase, To 
keep seed, etc., good for? This was meant to remind Noah 
that the animais are not for keeping him company, but for re- 
producing their species; hence he must not take in old or cas- 
trated ones. | 

R. Elazar said: If one slaughter an animal to Markules, he 
is liable, notwithstanding that Markules is worshipped by stone- 
throwing; for it reads [Lev. xvii. 7]: “‘ They shall offer no more 
their sacrifices unto evil spirits, after which they have gone 
astray,’’ hence no blood sacrifices even to such “ evil spirits’’ 
that are worshipped otherwise; as the usual worship is prohib- 
ited already in [Deut. xii. 30], ‘“ How did these nations serve 
their gods? even so will I do likewise.”’ 

MISHNA J//.: Money, garments, utensils found on the head 
of an idol are allowed; vine with grapes on, wreaths of corn ears, 
wine, oil, fine flour, and whatever is offered upon the altar, is 
prohibited. 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? said R. Hyya b. 
Joseph in the name of R. Oshia: from [Deut. xxix. 16]: ‘‘And 
you saw their abominations, and their idols of wood and stone, sil- 
ver and gold which they had with them”’; and again [ibid. vii. 
25]: ‘‘ Thou shalt not covet the silver or gold that is on them.”’ 
From the two wordings, ‘‘ with them’’ and ‘“‘ on them’ we con- 


103 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


clude that whatever is found with or on the idol without being an 
ornament thereof is allowed, but is not, if an ornament. But 
why not draw the conclusion that, just as all that is with the 
idol is forbidden, so also is all that is on it, regardless of its 
being an ornament or not? If such be the case, the ‘‘ on them”’ 
would be superfluous. But why does the Mishna allow money 
which is then, doubtless, for decorating purposes? Said the © 
disciples of R. Janai: It is allowed only when it is hung ina 
sack round the neck of the idol, which makes the latter look 
like a carrier, and this is surely no ornament; furthermore, as 
to garments, they are allowed only when they lie folded on the 
head of the idol, which makes it look like a washwoman. Re- 
garding utensils, R. Papa said: It means here that they lie on 
the head so as to disfigure the idol. R. Assi b. Hyya said: All 
objects within the curtain of the idol are prohibited, even water 
and salt; while outside the curtain only decorating objects are 
forbidden. % 

MISHNA ///.: The use of a garden or bathing-place belong- 
ing to an idol is allowed when it is gratis, but is forbidden when ~ 
it is for remuneration. If they belong to both the idol and 
some people, their use is allowed unconditionally, whether gratis 
or for pay. The idol of a heathen is forbidden from the very 
beginning, while that of an Israelite is not forbidden until after 
it has been actually worshipped. 

GEMARA: ‘“ Their use ts allowed unconditionally,’’ etc. 
Said Abayi: ‘‘ For pay’’ means that the idol-worshipper and 
not the priest is remunerated, while ‘‘ gratis ’’ means that neither 
is getting anything. 

‘* The idol of a heathen ts forbidden from the very beginning 
etc. The Mishna expresses here the opinion of R. Agiba with- 
out, however, mentioning his name. For we have learned, it 
reads [Deut. xii. 2]: ‘‘ Ye shall utterly destroy all the places 


whereon the nations you are about to drive out,’’ etc.; this 
verse has reference to all the utensils employed by the heathens —__ 
in their worship. If this be so, one could conclude that even 
such vessels are forbidden that were begun for idol-worship, 3 q 
but are not yet finished, or such that though finished, have not > 
as yet been brought into the temple of the idol; wherefore it says = 


in the quoted verse ‘‘ in their worship,’’ whence it follows that — 
only what was employed at the worship is forbidden. It isin — 
view of this that the sages prohibit the idol of a heathen not — 
until after it was worshipped, and that of an Israelite from the — 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 109 


very beginning. So said R. Ismael; R. Aqiba, however, said 
the very contrary of what the sages maintain—viz: an idol of 
a heathen is prohibited as soon as prepared, while that of an 
Israelite only when already worshipped. 

The master said: The verse [Deut. xii. 2] has reference only 
to utensils employed by the heathens in their worship. But 
does the verse speak of utensils when it speaks of places? 
The answer is this: The verse in question cannot possibly refer 
to the places, as it is stated right after: ‘‘ To their gods on the 
mountains,’’ whence it was concluded that the gods but not the 
mountains are forbidden; consequently, neither can. here be 
meant the places, hence it is the odjects in the places that are 
meant, and such objects can be no other than the utensils in 
question. But further above it is said: The sages prohibit the 
idol of a heathen not until after it was worshipped. How could 
the sages commit themselves to such an inference from a verse 
where the vessels, and not at all the idol, are concerned? The 
answer is that the verse says, “‘ All places where the nations 
worshipped their gods.’’ Now, as previously explained, ‘‘ the 
places’’ mean the vessels on them, hence, just as the vessels are 
not prohibited until after they were employed in idol worship, 
so also the idols are forbidden only after they were worshipped. 
On the other hand, R. Aqiba, who does not compare the vessels 
to the idols, may say that the particle e## divides the verse 
into two distinct parts. As to R. Ismael, he explains his posi- 
tion thus: As the idol of a heathen is forbidden only after its 
being worshipped, it is common sense that that of an Israelite 
should be forbidden from the very beginning; otherwise what 
difference would there be between the two? Surely not that 
the idol of an Israelite be altogether allowed, as it reads [Deut. 
XXVii. 15]: ‘“ Cursed be the man who maketh a carved or molten 
image,’’ etc. ; hence the curse is imposed upon the making of an 
idol. Well and good, but this verse does not prove as yet that 
the use of the idol is forbidden! It was answered that it is fur- 
ther expressly stated: ‘‘ The idol is detestable to the Lord,”’ 
hence, prohibited. Now, how does R. Aqiba assert his posi- 
tion? Said Ula, from [ibid. vii. 25]: ‘‘ The graven images of 
their gods ye shall burn with fire,’’ etc., which “‘ images ’’ surely 
means the likeness of the idol as soon as it is graved. AstoR. 
Ismael, he understands this verse in the sense given to it by 
R. Joseph, who said: Whence do we know that a heathen may 
profane his idol? From ‘* The images of their gods,’’ etc., 


110 : THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


which means that the idol is prohibited so long as the heathen 
treats it as a god, but becomes allowed as soon as he no longer 
treats it so, z.e., breaks up some piece thereof. On the other 
hand, R. Aqiba proves that the heathen can profane the idol 
from the same source used by Samuel—viz. [ibid.]: ‘‘ Thou shalt 
not covet the silver or gold that is on them,’’ and ends, ‘‘ Thou 
shouldst take it unto thyself’’; this apparent contradiction he 
explains thus: Do not covet before the idol is profaned, but 
after its profanation you may take it. But again, whence does 
R. Agiba know that the idol of an Israelite is not prohibited 
until after worship? Said R. Jehudah, it reads [ibid. xxvii. 15]: 
‘“‘ Cursed be it, and putteth it in a secret place.’’ This phrase, 
‘“in secret place,’’ means, pours out before the idol his secret 
thoughts; hence, R. Aqiba concludes that it is forbidden only 
after such worship. R. Ismael, on the other hand, explains this 
phrase in the sense of R. Iz’hak, who says: This phrase teaches 
us that the idol of an Israelite must be wholly destroyed and 
put in a sercet place; while R. Agqiba endeavors to prove 
this obligation by what R. ’Hisda said in the name of Rabh 
[Deut. xvi. 21]: ‘‘ Thou shalt not plant unto thyself a grove, 
any tree near the altar of thy Lord,’’ signifies that just as an 
altar that becomes out of use must be removed out of sight by 
being buried under ground, so also the groves (that are spoken 
of here in connection with the altar) must be put in secrecy. 
R. Ismael, however, infers from this verse what is said by Resh 
Lakish (Sanhedrin, p. 15, par. Resh Lakish, to the end). 

R. Hamnuna questioned: What is the law concerning a ves- 
sel that, after a piece had been broken off it, was again made 
fit for use and then dedicated to idol-worship? Before proceed- ~ 
ing to answer this question, one must know to whose idol this ~ 
vessel was devoted; if to that of a heathen, both R. Ismael and 
R. Agqiba consider such vessels as serving vessels, which are for- — 
bidden not until after they have actually been used in the wor- 
ship. Thus, the question must refer to the idol of an Israelite, — 
and, since R. Aqiba, who prohibits the idol of an Israelite only ~ 
after worship, will doubtless do the same as regards the serving 
vessel in question, it can be treated only in the light of R. — 


Ismael’s opinion, so that it is necessary to know in the first 


place whether such serving vessels are subject to the same rules — 
as the vessels of a heathen’s idol are. If yes, they are forbidden — 
after the use; but if they follow the rules of an Israelite’s idol, — 
they are forbidden from the very beginning. But why does 4 








“TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 111 


R. Hamnuna ask concerning a repaired and not a newly-made 
vessel? The answer is that his question has, in fact, reference 
to the problem of old defilement. As the following Mishna 
(Kelim, xi. 1): ‘‘ Of metallic vessels the flat and hollowed ones 
are subject to defilement; if, however, they were defiled and 
broke they become clean. But if they were again made into 
vessels, the old defilement returns.’’ Now, R. Hamnuna was 
in doubt as to whether this Mishna is concerned with biblical 
defilements only, or also with rabbinical defilements. But if so, 
why does not R. Hamnuna put his question regarding ’rabbini- 
cal defilements in general? His desire was that his question, 
embrace also the other point—viz: Does a rabbinical defilement 
return? And should you decide that it does not, then the 
question arises: How is the case with idolatry? Shall we 
assume that, because of the rigorousness of idolatry, a rabbini- 
cal be equivalent to a biblical or not? This question remains 
undecided. 

R. Johanan asked R. Janai: I should like to know whether 
or no food offered to an idol, if profaned, loses thereby its defile- 
iment (which lay therein by reason of its being of theidol)? But 
why does he ask about food and not about vessels? Because 
he knew that the remedy for devoted vessels is a legal bath, 
which abolishes also the defilement. Furthermore, R. Johanan 
does not ask whether or no an idolized food, if worshipped and 
then profaned, still defiles; because he knows that a profaned 
idol is no longer forbidden, hence, its defilement is also abol- 
ished. But he put up the foregoing question merely because 
R. Gidel said somewhere above that all objects sacrificed to 
idols can never be profaned, so he wants to know now whether 
R. Gidel’s theory applies to the prohibition which is biblical, 
but not to the defilement which is rabbinical, or to both? Also 
this question remains. undecided. 

R. Jose b. Saul asked Rabbi whether the vessels used (in the 
temple of Egypt) in the house of Chania, are allowed for use 
also in the temple of Jerusalem? This question suggests that 
R. Jose shared the opinion of those who say: The temple of 
Egypt was not considered an idol temple. It was, however, 
taught that the priests who served in the Chania temple are not 
allowed to serve in that of Jerusalem, the less so are those who 
served at idol-worships. - He thus wanted to know whether the 
vessels follow the same rules as the priests; or since the priests 
are endowed with intelligence they were fined. But the vessels 


112 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


destitute of intelligence should not be fined, or there is no dif- 
ference? Hereupon said Rabbi: Yea; they are prohibited and 
there is a verse from Scripture to corroborate this, but I forgot 
it. R. Jose thus objected, it reads [II Chron. xxix. 19]: ‘‘ All 
the vessels which King Achez had cast aside . . . have we put 
in order and sanctified.’ Does not “‘ put in order’’ mean a legal 
bath and ‘‘ sanctify ’’’ to bring back to sacredness, whence it is ob- 
vious that even such vessels that were used in idol-worship are al- 
lowed to be brought into the temple for use, after passing through 
the legal bath (the more so are allowed the vessels of the Egyptian 
temple)? Thereupon said Rabbi: The blessing of the Lord 
upon you: you have recalled to my memory the forgotten verse! 
‘* Put in order’’ means to hide them, and “‘ sanctify’’ to substi- 
tute them by other vessels. Is Rabbi’s interpretation supported 
by the following Mishna (Midath, i. 6): There was a pantry in 
the temple, where the Maccabees heaped up the stones of the 
altar defiled by the Greeks; and R. Sheshith said: The Greeks 
have defiled the altar by their idol-worship, and though these 
stones are allowed for private use, yet they were not used in the 
temple. (Similar was the case with the vessels of the Egyptian 
temple, which were allowed only for private use)? Said R. Papa: 
From the case of the Maccabees is no support at all, since the 
stones there were prohibited even for private use, the Maccabees 
guiding themselves by [Ezek. vii. 21]: ‘‘ And I will give it up 
into the hands of the strangers . . . and they shall pollute it’’; 
so that they could not do otherwise, for, in order that the stones 
be again allowed, they must be first profaned by breaking them, 
which is not permitted to do, as by law “‘ whole stones must be 
used to build an altar’’; nor could the stones be sawed into two 
(thereby becoming profaned), since the law forbids “‘ to bring 
iron thereon’’; so that as there was no means to profane the 
said stones, they were of necessity set aside. But why did not 
the Maccabees have the stones profaned by a heathen and make 


of them private use? They could not do even this, for as R. ~ 


Oshia said: The sages wanted once to forbid all use of gold and 


silver, because the enemy carried off the gold and silver of the . q 
temple, it was, namely, feared that the money coined therefrom 
might reach the Israelites, and by law it is prohibited to make 


use of what belongs to the sanctuary. It was, however, ob- 
jected: How could the sages have conceived such a wish, the — 
gold and silver of Jerusalem forming but an infinitesimal part 
of those in the whole world, and the smallest can never render 











TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 113 


prohibited the greatest part. Abayi explained the words of R. 
Oshia thus: The sages wanted to forbid not all the gold and 
silver, but only the gold and silver dinars issued by both the 
kings Hadrian and Traion, on which the image has become of 
late undiscernible, and which were surely coined of the gold and 
silver of the temple. However, when their attention was called 
to the verse, ‘‘ And will give it into the hands of strangers,’’ 
etc., they abandoned the idea, seeing that an object once pro- 
faned is allowed for private use. Now, as to the altar, it wasa 
sacred place to bring offerings to God, which is not the case 
with the gold and silver; hence it is below dignity to use its 
stones in private. 

MISHNA /V.: A heathen can profane his idol as well as 
that of his neighbor. An Israelite cannot ‘profane that of a 
heathen. The idol once profaned, all that pertains to its service 
is abolished; on the contrary, if only the pertainings were pro- 
faned, they alone are allowed, but not the idol. 

GEMARA: Rabbi taught to Simeon his son: A heathen 
may profane his idol as well as that of his neighbor; said he to 
‘him: Master, in your youth you used to teach that a heathen 
profanes his idol as well as that of an Israelite. (Says the 
Gemara): Can then an Israelite’s idol be profaned? Was it not 
said above that such can never be profaned? Said R. Hillel b. 
R. Wells: He spoke then of the case where the heathen owned 
the idol with the Israelite in partnership. But let us see what 
was the reason of both his statement in his youth and in his ad- 
vanced age. In his youth he thought that if an Israelite wor- 
ships an idol, he does it with the knowledge of the heathen, 
hence the heathen, when profaning his part, profanes also that 
of the Israelite; while in his later days he came to the conclu- 
sion that the Israelite is worshipping on his own account, hence 
the heathen profanes only his own part, that of the Israelite 
remaining unprofaned. 

There were others who taught the statement of R. Hillel.as 
concerning the latter part of our Mishna: An Israelite cannot 
profane that of a heathen. And to the question, is this not self- 
understood? Said R. Hillel b. Wells: It refers to a case where 
an Israelite and a heathen are the joint owners of the idol, in 
which case the former can profane neither his nor the heathen’s 
part, while the latter may his own part but not that of the 
Israelite. Others, however, bring this, R. Hillel’s explanation, 
in connection, not with the Mishna, but with the Boraitha fol- 


114 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


lowing. R. Simeon b. Menasia said: The idol of an Israelite 
can never be profaned; and this ‘‘never’’ R. Hillel b. Wells 
interpreted to mean that, when an Israelite and a heathen are the 
joint owners of an idol, the latter, by profaning his own part, does 
by no means profane the other’s part, though it may be assumed: 
here that the Israelite is a partner to the idol only out of com- 
placence to the heathen. And he comes thereby to teach us 
that an Israelite worships an idol not on the knowledge of the 
heathen, but on his own. 

MISHNA V.: How is an idol to be profaned? By cutting 
off the tip of its ear, the point of the nose, or the ends of the 


fingers, or by disfiguring its face with a hammer, even if thereby . 


nothing is broken off. But if he only spat or urinated before it, 
dragged it about in the dirt, or cast such upon it, it is not pro- 
faned. Ifa heathen sold or pawned his idol it is profaned ac- 
cording to Rabbi, but not according to the sages. 

GEMARA: “ Disfiguring its face with a hammer,’’ etc. 
Why should it be profaned when nothing of it was lost thereby? 
Said R. Zera: Because it has thus been made unrecognizable. 

‘* But tf he only spat,’’ etc. Whence is this deduced? Said 
’Hiskia, from [Is. viii. 21, 22]: ‘“ And when they shall be hun- 
gry, they will become enraged and curse their king and their. 
god . . . and they will look unto the earth,’’ etc., which means: 
Though the heathen curse his king and god and look up to the 
true God, he will still turn his eye back to the earth to worship 
his idol. . 

‘‘ Tf a heathen sold,’’ etc. In respect of this part of the 
Mishna Zeera in the name of R. Johanan and Jeremiah b. Abba 
in the name of Rabh expressed thus their respective opinions. 
The one says: The decision of the sages regards only the case 
when the heathen sold or pawned the idol toa heathen jewel- 
ler, but if to a Jewish one all agree that it is profaned; 
while the other holds that they differ also regarding the latter 
case. Theschoolmen asked: According to the latter view, how 
should the Mishna be interpreted? Does Rabbi mean here that 
the idol in question is profaned only or even when sold or pawned 
to a Jewish jeweller, but if to a heathen he agrees with the 
sages? Come and hear. Rabbi said: My view is correct in 
case the idol is sold to be destroyed, and that of my colleagues, 
if to be worshipped. But broken and worshipped must have 
here some specific meaning, for otherwise we should obviously 
have no two opinions on the subject.. And indeed, Rabbi in- 


a 


— a 


A Ot ee na 


Pn i ee ee ee eee 


pas > 














TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 115, 


tends to say: An idol sold to an Israelite who will surely not 
worship, but break it, while the sages speak of an idol sold to 
a heathen who will surely not break, but worship it; hence they 
differ in both cases? Nay; it may be said that Rabbi’s state- 
ment means this: My view is accepted by my colleagues, when 
the idol was sold to be destroyed, as they differ only when sold 
for worship —to a heathen jeweller. 

The rabbis taught: If an idol is pawned by a heathen, or it 
is buried under the ruins of an old fallen house, or is stolen by 
burglars, or, finally, is left standing alone by the heathen, who 
went to the sea-countries, the question arises whether or no the 
heathen had in mind to come back to it, as such was the case in 
the time when Jehoshua had war with the Amorites; if he had, 
the idol is not profaned. It is obvious that all the four cases 
must needs be stated. The first case implies that the heathen 
wants to have the idol back, while in the second, the idol being 
left under the ruins, the heathen may be thought as renouncing 
it, whereby it is profaned; hence the second statement. In 
like manner does the third case imply something different from 
the contents of the preceding cases: The ruins can possibly be 
removed, but a burglary is less likely to be returned. Finally, 
the fourth case teaches us again something new—viz: while in 
the third case the heathen may yet think that the idol fell into 
the hands of keathen thieves and they will worship it, or even if 
they be Israelites, they will sell it to heathens, they themselves, 
having no use of it; in the fourth case he abandons the idol of 
his own will, since he has not taken it along with him. Hence 
all the four cases must be taught. Now, the concluding sen- 
tence of the Boraitha must be thus understood: If the heathen 
has his mind to come back as the Amorites did, it is necessary 
to treat the idol in the same way as it was treated at those times 
—namely: Not to regard it as profaned, but rather to anni- 
hilate it altogether. But did the Amorites ever return? There 
was nothing of the kind! The answer is that if he has in mind 
to return, his idol must be treated as in the war of Jehoshua 
(though the Amorites have not returned). But if so, why the 
comparison with Jehoshua’s times? The Boraitha intends to 
teach by the way yet what R. Jehudah said in the name of 
Rabh: If an Israelite erects a brick to worship it, but does not 
worship, and a heathen comes and worships it, it is prohibited, 
notwithstanding the rule that no one can render a thing unallow- 
able that is not his own; here the motive of the Israelite is 


116 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


determining. How does R. Jehudah substantiate this his opin- 
ion? Said R. Elazor: He bases it on the proceedings of the 
Israelites upon their entering the promised land; for it reads: 
‘* Their groves ye shall burn with fire’’; here, too, one could 
then wonder and say: The holy land, having been promised by ~ 
God to Abraham and his descendants, belonged to the Israelites 
and not to the Amorites; how, then, could the latter have ren- 
dered unallowable these groves that were not their own? If you 
are ready to assume that these groves had sprung up before the 
promise, then you must regard them as the idol of a heathen, 
whose profanation, as we have seen above, suffices! Why then 
did not the Israelites compel the heathens to profane it and 
then use it? Why were they ordered to burn it down? In 
view of all this the verse, ‘‘ Their groves,’’ etc., must be thus 
explained: The promised land is indeed regarded the ownership 
of the Jews, and as Israel, by his worship of the golden calf in 
the wilderness, exhibited his inclination toward idol-worship, 
the grove is considered the idol of a Jew, worshipped by heath- 
ens only in accord with the Jews, and as such can by no means 
be profaned, but must be annihilated. And the case here with 
the brick is perfectly analogous. However, is the conclusion 
from the goldén calf to the grove warranted? The Israelites 
might have been inclined exclusively toward calf-worship? 
Nay; they declaimed at that time before the calf: These are 
your gods, O Israel! whereby they must have meant a variety 
of gods, toward which they felt disposed. Finally, that the pro- 
hibition was extended to a// groves and not only to those that 
were the contemporaries of the calf and which the Israelites re- 
pented, is due to the fact that there was no possibility to distin- 
guish between old and newly-planted groves. 

MISHNA VZ.: An idol abandoned by its worshippers in 
time of peace is allowed, but is forbidden when abandoned in 
time of war. Altars erected for kings are allowed, for the idol 
is put on them only when the kings pass. 

GEMARA: R. Jeremiah b. Abba said in the name of Rabh: 
The House Nimrod has the same regulations regarding idols as 
those abandoned by the owner in time of peace, because, though 
scattered all the world over as if driven about by war, it had the 
choice to return home and get its idols, and by not doing so it 
showed a lack of interest in them, hence they are allowed. 

‘“‘ Altars erected for kings,’ etc. Are they not, after all, 
altars of the idol? Said Rabba b. b. ’Hana in the name of R. 














TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). Il] 


Johanan: It means to say that the priests prepare the altars for 
the king, but he takes another road, so that no idols nor offer- 
ings come upon these altars. Ula, on his return from Palestine, 
alighted on one of such altars that was broken; R. Jehudah, on 
noticing this, asked him why he acted thus after both Rabh and 
Samuel had forbidden all use of such an altar when broken; and 
even he who says that broken idols are no longer worshipped 
and hence are allowed, does not assert the same with regard to 
altars, as it would be disgraceful to worship a broken idol, but 
upon a broken altar an idol may always be put. . Hereupon 
replied Ula: My respect for Rabh and Samuel is so great that 
I should readily fill my eyes with the ashes of their corpses; 
none the less I cannot help refuting this opinion, for R. Johanan 
and Resh Lakish said: An altar upon which idols are habitually 
placed is, when broken, allowable; furthermore, even he who 
holds that fragments are worshipped allows such an altar, as he 
namely says: The broken idol is always, even when broken, 
worshipfully regarded by the heathen, while no godliness is 
even imputed to an altar—it is but a mere stand for idols—so 
that as soon as it is broken, it is set aside without any regard. 
The following Boraitha expresses the same view of R. Johanan 
and Resh Lakish: An altar used as a stand for idols is, when 
partly broken, allowable; however, an altar used for sacrifices 
is, when broken, forbidden, until most of its stones fall apart. 

Which are the marks distinguishing the altar for sacrifices 
from that used asastand? R. Jacob b. Aidi said in the name 
of R. Johanan: The latter kind consists of but ove stone, while 
the former of several stones. ’Hiskia adduces a verse to this 
effect [Is. xxvii. 27,9]: ‘‘ When he maketh all the stones of the 
altar as limestones, that are beaten in pieces, when there shall 
not arise again any groves and sun images,’’ z.e., only when they 
are turned to lime no image is put on them, nor sacrifice, then 
only is their use allowable. 

There is a Boraitha: If one worships one’s own animal, it is 
prohibited from being used as a sacrifice in the temple, but not 
if it is his neighbor’s. There is a contradiction from the fol- 
lowing Thosephtha: All cattle is regarded as worshipped, imma- 
terial whether the worship took place by mistake or intention, 
by compulsion or free will. Now, what other could be the 
meaning of compulsion than that one forces into his house an 
animal of a stranger and worships it? Hence, cattle of a 
stranger is prohibited, too, through worship. Thereupon said 


118 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Rami b. "Hamma: The word compulsion means that heathens 
compelled him to worship his own animal. 

R. Zera opposed: Does not the Scripture free a culprit by 
compulsion? [Deut. xxii. 26]: ‘‘ And to the damsel ye shall do 
nothing,’’ etc. Therefore said Rabha: The prohibition of wor- 
ship was general, but from the expression [Levit. xviii. 5]: 
‘* He shall live in them,’’ whence the rabbis infer but not ‘‘ he 
shall die in them,’’ compulsion was excluded; however, there- 
after it reads again, ‘“ He shall not profane my holy name,”’ 
whence the rabbis infer that even if compelled, which, too, 
would apparently contradict each other. The explanation is 
that. compulsion’ imposed privately is excused, but if publicly, 
one must not yield to it. Said the rabbis to Rabha: There is 
a Boraitha that supports your opinion: The altars of idols re- 
main prohibited even after the evil decrees of the government 
have ceased. Rejoined Rabha: If only this, it cannot be a sup- 
port to my opinion, for there may have been an apostate Jew 
who worshipped it willingly. Said R. Ashi: Do not say ‘* may 
have been,”’ as it is certazn that there was such, and therefore 
the prohibition remains forever. ’Hiskia, however, said that 
the above-mentioned forcing of the neighbor’s animal to worship 
means if he pours wine between its horns for the idol, and not 
worshipped by bowing to it. R. Adda b. Ahaba, however, op- 
posed: Can, then, this be called worship? One can worship an 
idol, while by pouring wine on the animal for the idol he makes 
it only for an altar, and a living creature is not forbidden when 
used in the service to the idol. 

Therefore said R. Adda b. Ahaba: ’ Hiskia must have meant: 
When the animal is itself made some idol and then the wine 
poured to honor it, it is forbidden, which view coincides with 
what Ula said in the name of R. Johanan when returning from 
Palestine: Although strange cattle is rendered forbidden by 
worship, yet it is prohibited as soon as some act has been per- 
formed on its body. Said R. Na’hman: Go tell Ula that R. 
Huna taught us this, having explained this Halakha long ago in 
Babylon: An animal resting in the proximity of an idol becomes 
unallowable, as soon as one cuts through its gullet or windpipe 
for the sake of the idol, and be it the ownership of another one. 
Now, upon what can this view be based? The report of the 
Boraitha concerning the barring of priests, who were compelled 
to become such of an idol, from services in the Jerusalem tem- 
ple, contains hardly an analogy of compulsion; because a priest 


POE eet. PES pL Oa OPP a EI, LO ee toe 














TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 119 


could flee and thus save himself, while an animal destitute of 
intelligence could not. Nor can the Mishna, treating of the 
Maccabees, who set aside the altar-stones upon which the Greeks 
committed some act to honor an idol, be adduced as a basis, for — 
R. Papa explained it already, saying [Ezek. vii. 22]: ‘‘ I turn 
my face from them, that they may pollute my treasure,’’ shows 
that the temple was profaned by the arrival of the Greeks, and 
hence was no longer the ownership of God, but considered as 
that of the Greeks. Thus, the view in question can be based 
but on this passage [II Chron. xxix. Ig]: ‘* And all the vessels 
which King Achaz had cast aside . . . have we put in order 
and sanctified’’; and the master said that they were hidden and 
substituted by others, z.e., they were prohibited. Now, these 
vessels were not the ownership of Ahaz, and hence by his wor- 
ship he could not possibly profane them; we must thus assume 
that he committed with them some act of honor to the idols, 
whereby he rendered them forbidden, and here is applied the 
same rule in respect of cattle. 

R. Dimi, on his return from Palestine, said in the name of 
R. Johanan: Although the sages taught that, when one bows 
to uncultivated ground, saying: This be my god, the ground is 
thereby not forbidden; yet if he dug graves, pits or caves as an 
idol, the ground is prohibited. R. Samuel b. Jehudah, on his 
return from Palestine, said in the name of R. Johanan: It is 
true the sages said that an animal worshipped by others than its 
proprietor is not forbidden; yet the animal obtained by the 
idol-worshippers in exchange for an idol is forbidden. Rabin, 
when back from Palestine, said: Concerning this topic R. Ismael 
b. R. Jose and the sages have expressed two opinions, but it is 
not known who said which. The one prohibits an animal ex- 
changed for an idol, but allows the second animal obtained jn 
exchange for the first. The other opinion prohibits the second 
animal, too, basing itself upon [Deut. vii. 26]: ‘* . . . lest thon 
become accursed like it’’; hence, it appears that whatever comes 
from the accursed is /zke zt, and is accordingly forbidden. 

MISHNA V//.: The Jewish elders were asked by the phi- 
losophers at Rome: If God is displeased with idol-worship, why 
does he not destroy the idols? And they replied: If the 
heathens worshipped but things not needful to the world, he 
would surely annihilate them; but the fact is that they worship 
the sun, moon, stars and planets; should then God destroy his 
world on account of these fools? Then retorted the others: 


120 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Let God destroy the unnecessary objects and leave the others 
that are needed for the preservation of the world. Replied the 
elders: If he did so, the idol-worshippers would but be con- 
firmed in their belief and say: Here you see that these are gods, 
for they are indestructible. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: The philosophers once 
questioned the elders at Rome: If your God is displeased with 
idol-worship, why does he not destroy the idols? And they re- 
plied: If the heathens worshipped but things not needful to the 
world, he would surely annihilate them; but they worship the 
sun, moon, stars and the planets; shall he destroy the world 
because of the fools? But the Lord allows the world its natural 
course, and as to these fools who spoil it, they will not escape 
punishment—in other words, when some one steals wheat and 
sows it, the seed should not bear fruit by reason of its being 
stolen; but nay, God lets nature her course, while to the thief 
will be meted his due. In like manner, adultery is not barren 
on its own account, but the culprit is not spared. Resh Lakish 
says something to this effect: The Holy One, blessed be he, 
says: Not only do the wicked of this earth forfeit my coin, but 
they force me yet to put my stamp thereon. 

A philosopher once asked Raban Gamaliel: Your law says 
[Deut. iv. 24]: ‘‘ For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire, 
yea, a watchful God’’; why is it that he is so watchful with 
regard to the worshipper and not to the idol? Said Raban 
Gamaliel: I will answer your question by a metaphor: Sup- 
pose a king’s son names his dog with the father’s name and 
swears, whenever he does, by the life of this dog; the father, 
once informed about this, will he get angry at his son or at the 
dog? Naturally enough, at the son. Thereupon said the phi- 


losopher: You call the idol dog, which is not feasible, since the — 


idol has loftier gifts. You ask which are these? Why, oncea 
conflagration consumed all our city, and the idol temple re- 
mained intact. Answered R. Gamaliel: I shall use again a 
metaphor: A province once revolted against the king; against 


whom do you suppose he used his weapons, against the living — 


or against the dead? Naturally enough, against the former. 
Said the philosopher: You style our gods dogs and dead; well, 
then, when they really are so worthless why does not God an- 
nihilate them altogether? Yea, he would surely do it, was the 
reply, were they not of objects useful to the preservation of the 
world, such as are the sun, moon, stars, planets, mountains and 














TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 121 


valleys, for it reads [Zeph. i. 2, 3]: “‘ I will remove utterly all 
things from off the face of the earth, saith the Lord. I will re- 
move man and beast; I will remove the fowls of the heaven, and 
the fishes of the sea, and the stumbling blocks of the wicked.”’ 
That is to say: The Lord wonders, shall I do this when the 
heathens worship man, too? I should have then to destroy the 
whole universe! 

Agrippus, the general of Rome, said to Raban Gamaliel: 
‘“The Lord, thy God, is a consuming fire,’’ etc. In our every- 
day life we find it to be the rule that a potentate is but jealous 
of his equal, a sage of another sage, a hero of another hero, 
a rich of another rich; now, then, if God is jealous of an idol, 
the idol must be of some power! R. Gamaliel explained it to 
him with the following metaphor: If one who has a wife, takes 
yet another one, the former will not be jealous unless the new 
wife be a nothing compared with herself. 

An Israelite named Zunan said to R. Aqiba: I know just as 
well as you do that the idols are nothing, yet I should like to 
know, how is it that so many cripples are cured by the idols in 
their temples? Replied R. Aqiba: Listen to the following 
parable. There lived once in a town a pious man who enjoyed 
the unlimited confidence of his fellow townsmen so that they 
would deposit with him money and were it without any witness, 
with the exception, however, of one who would leave with him 
nothing without witness. It once happened, however, that this 
exceptional man left something in the hands of the other with- 
out any security; thereupon said the wife of the latter: Now 
we shall revenge on that distrustful man his mistrust to us, let 
us deny that he has a deposit with us; retorted her husband: 
Because of the short-comings of his understanding shall I put 
my reputed name on stake? No; this I shall neverdo! The 
same is the case with debility, disease and pains visited upon 
man; they are under oath assigned a certain time, no more, no 
less, during which to torture a man; it is further predestined by 
what man or what medicine the disease be eliminated. Now, 
when its time is off, the afflicted goes to the idol-temple; the 
disease protests, saying: because the man takes recourse to the 
idol, I should not abandon him, but as I am bound by oath I 
should not break it on account of this foolish man; thus the 
disease leaves him and he believes that it was the work of the 
idol. R. Johanan explained it from [Deut. xxviii. 59]: ‘‘ Then 
will the Lord render peculiar thy plagues . . . and sicknesses 


122 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


sore and neemonim’’ (literally trustful); sore, for the man suffers 
therefrom, and ¢rustful, for it never breaks its oath. 

Rabha b. R. Itz’hak said to R. Jehudah: There is an idol 
in our town, and whenever there is drought by us, it comes in 
dream to the priests, saying: Sacrifice a human being to me 
and you shall have rain; and this condition fulfilled, it in reality 
begins to rain. Thereupon said R. Jehudah: You may esteem 
yourselves fortunate that Iam yet among the living, for were I 
dead, I should not be in a position to communicate to you what 
Rabh said thereabout—viz. : it reads [ibid. iv. 19]: ‘‘ And that 
thou lift not up thy eyes unto the heavens, and thou seest the 
sun, and thé moon and the stars, all the host of heaven, and be 
misled to bow down to them . . . which Lord thy God hath 
assigned unto all nations it’’; you see from here that God has 
given some power to some worshipped objects for the purpose 
of barring their worshippers from the world to come. And this 
is what Resh Lakish says elsewhere, it reads [Prov. iii. 34]: ‘‘ If 
it concern the scornful, he will himself render them a scorn, but 
unto the lowly lives: he gives grace,’’ whence, if one comes to 
defile himself, the door is opened to him, while when one comes 
to cleanse himself, he is supported. 

MISHNA V//Z.: It is allowable to buy a wine-press from 
a heathen even while he takes grapes therefrom and puts them 
into the heap of grapes. The wine is not considered offered ere 
it reaches the reservoir, while upon reaching it all that is in it is 
(provided the heathen touches it) forbidden, the rest is allowed. 
It is allowed to tread but not to gather the grapes jointly with 
a heathen. It is forbidden both to tread and to gather with an Is- 
raelite who prepares the wine while he is unclean; it is, however, 
allowed to help him convey empty casks to, and then filled ones 
back from, the press. It is forbidden to assist a baker, who, in 
a state of uncleanness, prepares his bread, in kneading or or- 
dering, but one may help him carry the bread to the dealer. 

GEMARA: R. Huna said: As soon as the wine trickles 
from the grapes, the touch of a heathen renders it unallowable. 
It was objected thereto from the Mishna: It is allowed to buy 
a wine-press,’’ etc., whence it is manifest that the wine on be- 
ginning to trickle is not forbidden. Whereupon it was rejoined: 
R. Huna understands that the press in question is propped up 
at the bottom, and that an Israelite filled it first with grapes, 
the heathen having added some not until later. Come and hear 
another objection! The Mishna goes on to say: ... while 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 123 


upon reaching the reservoir all the wine that is in it is forbid- 
den, the rest is allowed, whence, only the wine that flows down 
is forbidden; said R. Huna, the sages have afterward retracted 
this Mishna, as in the following Boraitha: The rabbis held orig- 
‘inally that it is not allowed to gather grapes jointly with a 
heathen, for what the latter gathers is unclean and defiles by 
touch the grapes gathered by the Israelite, which are considered 
wine. They further warned against contributing toward the 
conditions defiling the fruit in Palestine, as well as against assist- 
ing an Israelite who defies the rules of cleanness, in treading the 
wine-press, because one must not help a transgressor in his 
work; while the heathen may be aided, for he is not bound by 
the rules of clean and unclean. Finally, the wine does not 
become offered by the sole fact of treading, for R. Huna’s opin- 
ion on this point has been rejected. However, the sages, as 
said above, retracted this view, asserting: Assistance to a 
heathen in treading is foridden, for the grape-juice is offered 
wine immediately upon trickling, so that the assisting Israelite 
would get remunerated for working on what is not allowed; 
Such is also R. Huna’sopinion. Norisit allowable to gather or 
tread grapes with an Israelite who defies the rules of cleanness, 
for every Israelite is obliged to give from his fruit Teruma to 
the priest, and here the clean grapes are rendered unclean by 
the others, thus defiling also the Teruma, which is not allowed 
as to a heathen, it is allowed to gather with him, as he is free 
from Teruma, and fruits exempted from Teruma may be caused 
to be defiled even in Palestine. 

‘“* The wine ts not considered offered ere,’’ etc. Concerning 
tithe, however, there is a Mishna that it is obligatory as soon 
as the grape-pits swim up, since this is an index of wine. Said 
Rabha: This presents no difficulty; as regards tithe we have 
the opinion of R. Aqiba, while the Mishna is in accordance with 
the other sages; as a Mishna states: In the case of tithe, the 
index of wine is its flowing into the reservoir. R. Aqiba, how- 
ever, says : It is the swimming up of the grape-pits. Hereupon 
it was asked: How should this swimming up of the pits be under- 
stood? Does it refer to the case when the wine, after filling the 
reservoir to a certain point, causes the pits to rise to the surface, 
or to the case when the wine is already in the casks, and during 
its fermentation the pits come up to the surface? Come and 
hear the following Boraitha: It is called wine when the pits 
swim up; accordingly, it is allowed to drink the wine from the 


, 


124 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


press as well as from the pipe connecting it with the reservoir, 
whence it is obvious that the first of the two cases is referred 
to. But has not R. Zebid taught this Boraitha in the name of 
the disciples of R. Oshia, as follows: It is called wine when 
poured into the reservoir and when the pits swim up, while R. 
Agiba requires its being put yet into the casks; from here it is 
apparent that the sages as well as R. Aqiba are involved ina 
contradiction, from which to extricate them is necessary to in- 
terpret the former version of the Boraitha in the light of R. 
Zebid’s Boraitha. Now, taking account of the Mishna, we shall 
have three opinions regarding the here-disputed point. The 
Mishna déclares it wine when it reaches the reservoir; the sages 
when, the wine being therein, the pits swim up; finally, R. 
Agiba, not before it is in the casks? The answer is that the 
Mishna may be so interpreted as to agtee with both the other 
views, since the sages and R. Agiba differ only in as far as the 
index of wine for ¢zthe is concerned, while the Mishna treats of 
the index of wine to become offered which is very rigorous. As 
to Rabha, however, he must rest satisfied with the three opin- 
ions as opposed to one another, as he makes no difference 
between the said cases. 3 

‘* What ts init ts forbidden, and the rest ts allowed.’’ R. Huna 
explains this as follows: The rest in the press is allowed only 
when the cleansing basket through which the wine passes on its 
way from the press to the reservoir in order to be cleaned of the 
husks, is not again emptied into the press. But why should the 


contents of the basket be forbidden, the heathen having touched — 


only the wine in the reservoir? There can hardly be another 
reason than that the wine of the upper vessel and flowing into 
the lower one be considered as a whole, and that the flow thus 
connects the two wines into one? And yet this question, as to 
whether or no the flow be a connecting link between the two 
wines in the above sense, propounded elsewhere, has found no 


satisfactory answer. And as our foregoing discussion has not | 
been resorted to in this connection, it must not be assumed that — | 
the flow is no connecting link, but as R. ’Hyya explains it: | 
When the two vessels are full of wine so that, their mouths — | 
being near, the wines touch each other, they are regarded as one | 
wine. Accordingly in our case the reservoir must be so full of © 


wine as to touch the basket, so that when the contents thereof 
are emptied into the press, what is in the latter also becomes 
forbidden. _ 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 125 


It is related of a boy who in his sixth year was well versed 
in the Tract Idolatry. Once he was asked whether an Israel- 
ite and a heathen may jointly tread a wine-press? His answer 
was in the affirmative, notwithstanding R. Huna’s negative 
view. And to the objection that the heathen renders the wine 
forbidden by his touching the grapes, the boy retorted: Have 
the hands of the heathen wrapped up with cloth, so that he 
might not touch the grapes with dare hands. Finally, upon 
being further asked that the heathen may touch the grapes with 
his feet, he replied that touching by foot is not considered. 

It once happened that an Israelite and a heathen jointly hired 
and worked a wine-press in the City of Nahardea; R. Samuel, 
asked as to how to behave with regard to this wine, hesitated to 
answer until after three festivals during which the sages were in 
assembly; for he wanted to first propound this question to 
‘them. The question arises, why was he anxious to hear the 
opinion of the sages? If because he expected to find one of 
them entertaining the opinion of R. Nathan, then we must say 
that he wanted to prohibit all benefit of this wine; for it was 
taught: If the heathen measures out the wine with the hand or 
foot, Israelites must not drink it, but it may be sold to heathens; 
while R. Nathan prohibits all benefit of wine measured by hand. 
But now that R. Nathan makes no reference to the measure by 
foot, it must be assumed that Samuel was not waiting for his 
opinion, but he rather expected to find one of the sages in favor 
of R. Shimon’s view, which allows the wine, even to consume, 
provided it was not touched by the heathen intentionally. 

It once happened at Biram that a certain heathen climbed 
up a palm-tree to get down some branches. On coming down 
he unwittingly touched with one of the branches a cask of wine. 
Rabh was asked on the point, and he prohibited Israelites from 
drinking this wine, allowing, however, its sale to heathens. 
Thereupon R. Kahana and R. Assi interposed: Have you, 
master, not yourself taught that even a one-day-old child of a 
heathen renders the wine prohibited when touching it? And 
in this case there is surely no intention involved! Answered 
Rabh: I prohibited only to drzn it, but not to sell it and use the 
money thereof. 

The text says: Rabh holds “‘ that even a one-day-old child of 
a heathen,’’ etc. R. Shimi b. Hyya advanced the following ob- 
jection: When one buys slaves from a heathen, has them cir- 
cumcised but not bathed in the legal bath, the place they tread 


126 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


on as well as what they spit out, is unclean. Precisely the same 
is the case with the acquired children of a female slave; but 
according to others the children are clean. In the case of wine 
the same rule holds: Adults render it forbidden by touch, but 
not children. What is an adult? When already familiar with 
the nature of idol-worship, and is considered a child before that 
period. We see, then, from this Boraitha, that contrary to 
Rabh’s position, a child does not make the wine unallowable by 
mere touch? The answer is that the “‘ child’’ spoken of in this 
Boraitha is one born of a female slave in the house of an Israel- 
ite; as to other children, inclusive of slaves bought of a heathen, 
-Rabh’s precept holds good. But here is another question. The 
Boraitha says: The same is the case with the children of a 
female slave, which would suggest the inference that there is no 
difference between a slave bought, or one brought up in the 
house of an Israelite. The answer is that this phrase refers only 
to their spittle and the place trodden on by them. However, 
this explanation is correct according to him who says that these 
are unclean, but what according to him who declares them 
clean? Hecomes to teach us that adult slaves bought, circum- 
cised and then legally bathed, do not make the wine forbidden 
by touch, just as the children of a female slave. The Boraitha 
states this in order to exclude the opinion cited by R. Na’hman 
in the name of R. Samuel to the effect that when an Israelite 
buys slaves from a heathen, has them circumcised and legally 
bathed, they none the less render the wine forbidden all the 
time, till they cease to mention the name of the idol and wholly 
forget it. And how long is this time? R. Jehoshua b. Levi 
‘set the limit of this period at twelve months. 

In the town Mechusa a heathen once happened to enter the 
house of a Jewish wine-seller, who answered his question as to 
whether he sells wine, in the negative. The heathen, noticing 
on the table a little wine in a vessel with which the Jew used to 
serve wine, put his hand right into it, saying: Is not this wine ? 
The host, excited over this misdeed, emptied the vessel back 
into the cask; so that he had to consult Rabha what to do with 
the wine? He advised him to sell it to heathens. When R. 
Huna b. ’Hinna and R. Huna b. R. Na’hman heard of this inci- 
dent, they said that all benefit of this wine is forbidden. There- 
upon, Rabha heralded that the wine may be sold to heathens; 
while the both Hunas let herald the opposite. Some time after, 
R. Huna b. R. Na’hman happened to be in Mechusa where 


f 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 127 


Rabha resided; so Rabha instructed his servant not to admit 
anybody at the time when Huna will be by him, since they, 
two, will be busied with the settlement of an important dispute. 
Rk. Huna, on coming to him, opened, indeed, the foregoing 
question, and, to his great astonishment, Rabha said that all use 
of that wine is forbidden. And to the question: Has not the 
master allowed such a case, he answered: In this particular case 
it was the wine in the cask that I allowed, but the wine touched 
by the heathen and poured back into the cask I prohibited, re- 
- quiring rather that its worth be cast into the sea. It is true, 
I once allowed also the other wine, but during my sojourn at 
Pumbedita, Nahmani (Abayi) adduced so many Boraithas and 
conclusions of other sages against my tenet, that I withdrew my 
former opinion, and now I prohibit the wine poured back; for 
among others, Nahmani told me of such a case in Nahardea, 
and Samuel prohibited the wine; in another case at Tiberia, R. 
Johanan has likewise forbidden. I attempted to argue: Samuel 
and R. Johanan may have been led to such stringency by the 
fact that at those places the population is ignorant, in which 
case rigorous legislation is commendable; but he replied: Do 
you think that Mechusa is more enlightened than Nahardea and 
Tiberia? Healso called my attention to the following Thoseph- 
tha: It once happened that the excise collectors poured back 
into the cask the wine left after they had had a drink; one of 
them drew also some wine with a lever, putting the lever back 
in the cask, and the sages prohibited this wine for all benefit. 

R. Johanan b. Arza and R. Jose b. Nehorai were once sitting 
together indulging a little in wine, when aman camein. They 
told him to pour in for them; but no sooner had he fulfilled 
their order than they discovered that he was a heathen. There- 
upon one of the two said: The wine is absolutely forbidden, 
while the other asserted that it is even allowable to drink. Said 
R. Jehoshua b. Levi: Both had their respective opinions well 
grounded; the former must have reasoned thus: The man knew 
us to be of the sages, and he could easily notice that we were 
going to drink wine, which, when ordered by us to pour in, he 
would, in his thought, render prohibited. While the other one 
must have reasoned the other way—viz.: The man, knowing us 
to be of the sages, surely thought that we drank no wine, since 
otherwise we should not order him, a heathen, to pour in for 
us, hence the wine is allowed. But, against the latter it may 
be asked: Did not the heathen see that it was wine? Nay, it 


128 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


all took place in the evening. Neither could he discern it by 
smell, as it was new wine, which has no smell. That he did not 
touch it is certain, for the wine was in a bottle; and the shaking 
of the wine by a heathen is prohibited only when done inten- 
tionally, which was not here the case. 

R. Assi questioned R. Johanan: Does a heathen render the 
wine prohibited by pouring water into it? Yea, was the answer; 
for a Nazarite must be told: Go around, go around, but do not 
approach the vineyard in order not to yield to temptation and 
eat from its fruit. R. Jeremiah, when once in Sabatta, noticed 
that the heathens there are wont to dilute the wine that the 
Jews drink,, and he reminded them of the foregoing warning to 
a Nazarite. It was taught likewise in the name of R. Johanan, 
according to others R. Assi, in his name: Wine diluted by a 
heathen is forbidden by reason of temptation as above. 

Resh Lakish was once in Bozrah (a town conquered by the 
King David in the province of Moab). He saw the Jews there 
eat fruit without having separated the tithe thereof, and he told 
them that this is not allowed. He further noticed that the Jews 
were wont to drink the water consecrated by the heathens, and 
prohibited it, too. Later he happened to visit R. Johanan to 
whom he related his observations and prohibitions, and R. 
Johanan told him: Go right back and allow all you have pro- 
hibited, because you mistook Bozrah for Betzer which was con- 
quered by Moses, and where the tithe is thus obligatory; and 
as to the water there, it is public ownership which, as such, can- 
not be prohibited at all. 

R. Hyya b. Abba made once a journey to Gabla, where he 
‘observed that Jewesses were pregnant from heathens, who, 
though circumcised, were not yet legally bathed. He further 
saw that the Jews were drinking the wine diluted by the heath- 
ens; he also noticed that Jews were eating Zurmus (fig-bean) 
cooked by heathens. He, however, did not interfere. When he 
later reported this to R. Johanan, the latter said: Go right back 
and have it publicly announced that their children are bastards, 
the wine is to be regarded zessech (idolatrous libation), and the 

Turmus is forbidden like all other things cooked by heathens, 
because the inhabitants of Galba are uneducated. With refer- 
ence to the children, R. Johanan expressed the same opinion 
elsewhere, saying that one is not considered a proselyte unless 
he is both circumcised and legally bathed, hence the above are 
still considered heathens; and Rabba b. ’Hana said in the name 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 129 


of R. Johanan: When a heathen or a slave seduces a Jewish girl, 
the offspring is regarded as a bastard. The wine he prohibited 
by reason of temptation as said above, and the Zurmus, because 
they are there uneducated, otherwise it would be allowed. 

R. Kahana was once asked whether it is allowed to hire a 
heathen for conveying grapes to the wine-press of an Israelite; 
his answer was in the negative, by reason of the temptation 
above-mentioned. R. Yemer objected to him from this Toseph- 
tha: The grapes carried by a heathen to the press, be it ina 
basket or any other vessel, are allowed even when trickling. 
Said R. Kahana: This is no weighty objection, for here it treats 
of grapes already carried, which I, too, should allow, but not to 
hire one originally for such work. 

Once a citron chanced to fall into a cask of wine; a heathen 
seeing this, hurried to take it out with his hand, and R. Ashi 
ordered to hold his arm fast in order to prevent it from moving, 
then to open the faucet and have the wine flow into another 
vessel, when it will be allowed for sale. The same R. Ashi said 
that wine made prohibited by the touch of a heathen is not 
allowed to be sold to other heathens; the heathen, however, 
who touched it, may be made to pay for the wine by consider- 
ing the thing in a manner as if the heathen had spilled or in 
some other way destroyed the wine, when it would be legiti-. 
mate to recover the loss. This, his opinion, he corroborates by 
the following Boraitha: If a heathen renders the wine prohibited 
by touch, not however, in the presence of an idol, all benefit of 
it is forbidden. But R. Jehudah b. Baba and R. Jehudah b. 
Bethira say it is allowed, and on the following grounds: In the 
first place, because the act was done not in the presence of an 
idol, and secondly because the Israelite may say to the heathen: 
The wine is not your ownership, hence you cannot make it for- 
bidden. Now, though we do not agree with the two Jehudahs, 
the inference is nevertheless justified that the Israelite may 
make the heathen pay. 

It once happened that the bung burst out of the hole of 
a cask with wine, and a heathen ran by, put his hand upon the 
bung-hole to stop the escape of the wine. Thereupon said R.- 
Papa: The wine above the bung is forbidden, the rest is allowed. 
R. Papa was further teaching: The wine of leather bags carried 
by a heathen who is followed by a supervising Israelite, is 
allowed if it so fills the bags that it cannot shake at all, but if 
not so full, it is forbidden. If, however, the wine be in open 


Wa 
If 
7 
J 
i” 
a 
ia 
. 
f 
i 
4 
i 
"% 
ay. 
a 
} 
4 
u 
7 
“ 
! 
& 
a 
q 
a 
> 
ce. 
‘4 
\ 
we 
ree 
if 
‘ 
a, 
+m 
aay 
" 
Te: 
45 
J. 
ao’ 
uy 
ey 
as 
i 
i “4 
tne 
vo 
a 
ry, 
tes 
3 
if 
ul Wi 
Ca 
via 
| 
‘ 
a) 
1 
' 
reat 
\ G 
yy 
NAY 
Past 
bur 
oY 
ey 
a 
Nisa 
75 
be 
ae 
i is 
cay 
toy 
bu 
“a 
1 
ip 5 
fat 
. 


ae 
+ ¢ 

Ss 
nay 


} R 
i. 
t 
i) 
oy ‘ 


— 
om 


Spies 
tse 





130 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


pitchers, the converse is the case, because out of a full pitcher 
the wine may overflow upon the hands of the heathen, and then 
touch back the wine inside the pitcher, while with the pitcher 
that is not full this cannot be feared. R. Ashi maintains that 
even the wine in a leather bag that is not full cannot be made 
prohibited by shaking, for it is not customary to offer wine by 
shaking. If the heathen put wood upon the grapes in the press 
in order to squeeze the wine out by this pressure, R. Papa allows 
the wine, while R. Ashi, according to others R. Simi b. Ashi, 
prohibits it; all, however, agree in that the wine is allowed 
when the wood is pressed down by means of a wheel, for the 
work is done but by a derivative of his force, but when the 
heathen exerts the pressure by his feet, only R. Papa allows, 
while the others forbid the wine. 

Once a heathen pressed the wine by means of a wheel, yet 
R. Jacob from Nahar Pekod declared the wine prohibited. At 
another time a cask with wine happened to burst, and a heathen 
was holding it together until the wine was emptied into another 
barrel; Raphran b. Papa, according to others R. Huna b. R. 
Jehoshua, allowed to sell the wine to heathens. It was prohib- 
ited to drink it, because the cask burst lengthwise, so that it 
was necessary to hold it together, but if it had burst crosswise 
it could have been held together by pressing the upper part; in 
this case the wine would have been allowed even to drink,. be- 
cause the pressure of a stone could have done the same service. 

Once a heathen was found in the press of an Israelite; though 
there was no wine in it, yet it was moist, and the question came 
up as to what to do with the press? R. Ashi decided it thus: 
If the humidity of the press was so great that an object could 
therein become so moist as to moisten another object, the press 
must be first rinsed with water and then scrubbed. with ashes 
two times, while by a smaller degree of humidity one rinsing 
suffices. 

MISHNA LX.: A heathen standing near the wine reservoir 
renders the wine forbidden, provided he has a lien on it, but 
not otherwise. Whenaheathen falls into a wine-reservoir and is 
then brought up (dead), or when a heathen measured the wine 
with a pipe, dragged therewith a hornet out of the wine, or, 
finally, tapped his hand on the cask against the ebullitions of 
the fermenting wine—all which cases have actually occurred— 
the wine should, according to the rabbis, be sold; R. Simeon 
allows to drink it. If the heathen, while enraged, cast the cask 








oY et ee a Ih, ene yet ee ee ee Le 


ae 











TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 131 


into the reservoir, as it once happened, the sages allowed the 
wine. 

GEMARA: Said Samuel: The lien spoken of in the Mishna 
must be had on the wine itself; and R. Ashi proved this by 
quoting another Mishna, which says: When one works a heath- 
en’s wine in accordance with the rules of cleanness (so that he 
might sell it to Israelites), leaves it then in the premises of the 
heathen, but under the supervision of an Israelite, and the 
heathen writes a note to him stating, ‘‘ I have received of you 
money,’’ the wine is allowed; if, however, the affair takes place 
this way: The Israelite attempts to take out the wine and the 
heathen refuses it until he get the money, which case once oc- 
curred at Beth-Shean, the sages declare this wine prohibited, 
because it is yet the ownership of the heathen. But if the lien 
had been on the Israelite’s property, even the wine included, it 
does not matter. 

‘““ When a heathen falls,’’ etc. According to R. Papa this 
means that the heathen is brought up dead, otherwise all benefit 
of the wine is forbidden, because the heathen celebrates his 
escape, and thanks on this account his idol, wherefore the wine 
is considered offered. 

‘“ When a heathen measured the wine with a pipe, etc., the 
rabbis allow to sell it, R. Simeon also to drink tt.’’ Said R. Ada 
b. Ahba: Blessed be the head of R. Simeon who, unlike the 
rabbis, goes to extremes—viz: If he prohibits, he prohibits to 
derive all benefit therefrom, and if he allows, he allows it even 
to drink. Said R. ’Hisda: I was told by Abba b. ’Hannan that 
so said Zera, that the Halakha prevails with R. Simeon. (Says 
the Gemara): After all, the Halakha does not prevail with him. 

MISHNA X.: If an Israelite, who had cleansed the wine of 
a heathen, left it in the latter’s premises, in a house opening 
into a public ground, in a town where heathens and Jews live, 
the wine is allowable; but if there live only heathens, the wine 
is not allowed, unless a Jewish watchman take care of it. How- 
ever, the watchman must not continually stay there, but may 
go andcome. R. Simeon b. Elazar says: All heathen premises 
are of the same account. If one cleanses the wine of a heathen, 
leaves it in his premises (as above), and the latter writes him a 
note stating, ‘‘ I have received money from you,’’ the wine is 
allowed. But if the case be such that when the Israelite wants 
to take out the wine the heathen refuses, requiring to be paid first 
(as it once occurred at Beth-Shean), the sages prohibit the wine. 


132 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


GEMARA: Why should the Mishna forbid the wine in a 
town where Jews do not reside, since in any town you find Jews 
coming there now and then for traffic? Says Samuel: The 
Mishna has in view but such towns that are provided with walls 
and gates, so that no one can enter it without special permis- 
sion, and the heathen is thus in a position to know whether or 
no there is an Israelite in town. R. Joseph said: It suffices 
that the wine be so kept in a house that any Israelite could see 
from his window into the heathen’s yard, and the house must 
not needs be opening into a public place. In like manner it is 
sufficient that there be in the proximity of the house a little 
elevation where people are wont to assemble, or that a date-tree 
be there, since in this case the heathen may fear lest someone 
should climb up the tree for dates and descry his doings in the 
same time; but if the top of the tree be cut off, its influence is 
discussed by R. Acha and Rabina, the one saying that the tree, 
now that it bears no fruit, exerts no influence upon the heathen, 
who, thinking that nobody will climb it up now, may break the 
seal and take out somé of the wine; while the other says: Peo- 
ple are still now and then climbing upon such tree in order to 
look for their strayed cattle, and hence it is yet fear-inspiring to 
the heathen. 

The rabbis taught: When an Israelite buys or rents a house 


in the courtyard of a heathen, where also an Israelite lives, and 


puts there his wine, it is allowed even if not sealed and locked 
up. But if the other Israelite lives in the same town only, the 
wine is allowed only when sealed and locked. However, if a 
heathen hires Jews to prepare wine for sale to Jews, and this 
wine remains in the premises of the heathen, a Jew living in the 
same house where the wine is kept, it is allowed, provided it be 
sealed and locked by a Jew who should himself have charge of 
the key and seal. Said R. Johanan to him who cited before 
him this Boraitha, read the last passage thus: The wine is 
allowed even when not sealed and locked, provided only an 
Israelite lives in the same house. If, however, an Israelite lives 
in the same city but not in the same yard, the wine is forbidden 
even when sealed and locked; so says R. Meier, while the rabbis 
say: An Israelite must either sit there and watch, or come there 
at certain times. The question now arises, to which case the 
rabbis refer, as there are four cases in the Boraitha? To assume 
that they refer to the last case would be to assume a redun- 
dance, since R. Mair said the same; nor can it be assumed that 





ee ee 





MES Few hae ee 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 133 


they refer to the third case, where the wine, when sealed and 
locked by a Jew, is allowed; because, as R. Johanan allows it 
even when not sealed and locked, there would be no reason to 
account for the exceptional rigor of the rabbis in this case. 
Hence, it is manifest that they refer to the second case, which 
allows the wine put up in the house of a heathen, when both there 
lives a Jew in the same town and also when the wine is sealed and 
locked; and it is here that the rabbis add the limitation that an 
Israelite watch the wine, or come to it at certain times. But 
what is gained by the last point? When the Jew is to come 
there only at certain times, the heathen will know it and find his 
time to break the seal and do what he pleases? The answer is 
this: We must assume that the Jew is to come there at times 
and not at certain times, so that the heathen will know nothing 
definite. : 

‘“* R. Simeon 6. Elazar says, all heathen premises,’’ etc. The 
schoolmen propounded a question: What does R. Simeon in- 
tend with this doctrine, to make the regulations of wine more 
rigorous or more lenient? R. Jehudah said in the name of 
Zeira, the latter is the case, while R. Na’hman said in the name 
of the same authority the former was intended. In order to 
make R. Jehudah’s opinion plausible, it is necessary to insert 
the following in the Mishna: The same prohibition is imposed 
upon wine brought into the house of another heathen, because 
of fear lest the latter should go to the proprietor and say: You 
are free to come to my house and do with your wine as you 
please; I will not betray you provided, however, you promise 
to serve me in the same way in case I will have Jews prepare 
wine; it is in this connection that R. Simeon b. Elazar said: 
Are, then, all premises of the same account? We see that if 
the wine is left in the premises of the proprietor, an Israelite 
must watch it; if, however, the wine is stored with another 
heathen, this watch is not requisite, as I do not believe that the 
heathens would enter such mutual agreements with one another. 
On the other hand, in order to make R. Na’hman’s view of R. 
Simeon’s position plausible, the following wording must be 
given to the inserted passage: The prohibition is only then in 
force when the wine is left in the premises of the proprietor with 
a Jew watching it; but if the wine is left with another heathen, 
the additional watch is unnecessary, as we do not believe in the 
mutual agreement of the heathens. To which R. Simeon b. 
Elazar says: All heathen premises account alike, hence as the 


134 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


watching by a Jew is there requisite, it is so here, too, for I fear, 
indeed, that the heathen may enter some mutual understanding. 
There is a Boraitha in accordance with R. Na’hman: R. Simeon 
b. Elazar says, all premises of heathens are of the same account, 
for we fear lest they deceive us. 

It once happened that Israelites bought of Parsik, the vice- 
roy, the grapes of a vineyard in order to prepare wine therefrom; 
they then left the wine with Parsik’s gardeners without having 
paid for it. Hereupon the disciples of Rabha’s college wanted 
to allow the wine on the ground that there cannot possibly be 
a mutual agreement between the viceroy and his gardeners. 
Said Rabha to them: Just in this case there is much to fear, 
because if Parsik wants to falsify the wine, he will meet no 
barrier. 

Once a few casks of wine belonging to an Israelite were lying 
in the street, and a heathen was found standing among them; 
Rabha, upon being asked what is to be done with the wine, 
said: If this man is known to be a thief, the wine is allowed, for 
he will fear to touch the wine in the open street, lest he be sus- 
pected of stealing it; but if he is an honest man the wine is for- 
bidden, because of the reasonable fear, maybe he touched it. 














CHAPTER V. 


RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING WAGES AND LIBATION WINE, 
— EFFECTS OF SUCH WINE WHEN FALLING ON FRUIT OR MIXING 
WITH OTHER WINE.—UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES WINE MAY BE 
LEFT WITH A HEATHEN.—CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH JEWISH WINE 
IS SOLD TO HEATHENS.—DETERMINATION OF QUANTITY OF LIBA- 
TION WINE MIXED WITH OTHER WINE.—HOW VESSELS OF HEATHEN 
ARE TO BE ALTERED TO MAKE THEM FIT FOR A JEWISH TABLE. 


MISHNA J.: The wages of a Jewish laborer hired by a 
heathen to work with him wine for libation are prohibited. But 
if he was hired for some other work and was then told: Bring 
this cask of offered wine from one place to another, the wages 
are allowed. Ifa heathen hires of a Jew an ass to carry on it 
such wine, the reward is forbidden; if, however, he hired it to 
sit thereon, it is allowed even if he had with him his wine-flask. 

GEMARA: The reason why the wages are prohibited is 
hardly that all the benefit of offered wine is forbidden, because 
the following speaks against such a reason—viz.: Although 
arlah (the fruit growing on a tree within the first three years 
after it has been planted) is prohibited, likewise the fruit of a 
field sowed in a vineyard kelatm (variegated seeds); yet if one 
sells these fruits and with the money thus obtained betroths 
himself to a girl, she is regarded his legitimate wife. Nor can 
it be said that the wages follow the same rules with the wine, 
just as the money obtained from the sale of an idol is subject to 
the regulations governing the latter; because, as it is known, the 
money gotten for the fruits growing on the Sabbathic year is 
subject to the rules of the fruits themselves, and yet we learned 
that, if one invites the laborer, saying: Take this dzzar and 
gather herbs for me to-day, this reward is forbidden; but if the 
invitation is made thus: Gather for me herbs to-day, the reward 
is allowed when this case takes place on the Sabbathic year. 
Hence, wages are allowed after all! Said R. Abuhu in the 
name of R. Johanan: This is a fine which the sages find neces- 
sary to impose upon driver and offered wine. In the case of 
wine, as said above in the Mishna, and in the case of drivers in 
the following Boraitha: The reward obtained by drivers for 
transporting fruits grown on the Sabbathic year is considered 

135 


136 - THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Sabbathic. Now, what does this mean: The reward is Saé- 
bathic ? It cannot possibly mean that the reward is made in 
fruit of the Sabbathic year, for the proprietor of the fruit would 
thus meet a debt with fruit which is by law allowed [Levit. 
xxv. 6]: “‘ For food,’’ but not to traffic with. Neither can this 
expression be interpreted to mean: The reward is as holy as the 
fruit of the Sabbathic year, because of the Mishna cited above: 
If one says: Gather for me fruit to-day, the reward is allowed. 
Said Abayi: It speaks of a reward paid with the Sabbathic fruit; 
and as to the difficulty of “* food and not for traffic’’ it can be 
answered that he gives him the fruit as a present, and not as 
reward, as we find a similar case in the following Mishna: One 
must not say to his neighbor: Carry this fruit for me to Jeru- 
salem, of which take a part as your reward; but he may say: 
Carry it to be eaten in Jerusalem, and there they present each 
other the fruit as a present. Rabha, however, said: It means 
that the reward becomes holy like the Sabbathic fruit itself, and 
the difficulty that it is allowed to a laborer is not considered, 
for the rabbis do not care to fine him for such a trifle. 

The schoolmen propounded a question: How is it when the 
heathen hires a Jewish laborer to prepare wine in general? Shall 
we assume that, since all use of this wine is prohibited just as that 
of offered wine, the wages are by implication not allowable, or 
that the wine in general is not so rigorously treated by reason 
of its differing from the offered wine in that it does not defile an 
Israelite by touch, while the latter does so, and hence, that the 
wages in this case be allowed? Come and hear! A heathen 
once hired a Jewish boatman to convey for him some wine to 
a certain place and paid him for the laborin wheat. The laborer 
appeared then before R. ’Hisda asking him what is to be done 
with the wheat? The answer was: You must burn it and bury 
the ashes; hence, such wages, too, are prohibited. The disci- 
ples of R. Janai were wont to borrow on the Sabbathic year 
fruit from the poor and to pay them back in fruit the succeed- 
ing year. R. Johanan was interrogated as to the legitimacy of 
this act, and he found it in accord with the law.* 

R. Na’hman, Ula, Abimib. Papa, and R. Hyyab. Ammi were 
once sitting together and discussing the following point: If an 
Israelite is hired to break the casks that contained offered wine 





* The text treats here of the question as to whether the reward of a harlot is 
allowed in case she was paid after; which we deem not in place here and therefore 
omit it. 











TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 137 


of which some remnant may now flow yet, is he allowed to 
receive payment for his work or not? The possible reason for 
a negative answer is that the laborer desirous to get work wishes 
for the existence of whole casks, and thereby also for that of the 
prohibited wine left therein; while on the other hand the reason 
for a positive answer is that he by his labor destroys the wine. 
Thereupon decided R. Na’hman: The laborer may without any 
seruples break the casks and get paid therefor; in addition to 
it, he may yet earn the blessing of Heaven! The following 
Boraitha corroborates R. Nahman’s decision: The Israelite is 
prohibited from assisting a heathen in ploughing a field sowed 
with kelaim (variegated seeds), but he is allowed to weed out 
various seeds so that only one kind be left, for he thereby 
diminishes the unallowed. 

At some other time the same sages were together discussing 
the question as to whether or no the use of the money obtained 
by a heathen from the sale of an idol is all forbidden to an 
Israelite (just as it is in case the Israelite sells an idol)? Said 
R. Na’hman: It seems to be allowable, because once there came 
some heathens to Rabba b. Abuhu and declared themselves 
willing to embrace Judaism, whereupon he replied: If this is 
your intention, it is incumbent on you first to sell out all you 
have, for as soon as you have become Israelites, your wine and 
idols are prohibited to sell. Whence it follows that they are 
allowed, even after they become Israelites, to use the money 
gotten from selling the idols when yet heathens. The others 
objected to this inference, saying: In this case the intention of 
becoming an Israelite renders surely their idols profaned. Here- 
upon R. Na’hman recited the following Boraitha: If a heathen 
pays his debt to an Israelite in money, which he obtained from 
the sale of an idol or offered wine, the Israelite is allowed to 
accept it; if, however, the heathen asks his creditor to wait 
until after he has sold his idol or offered wine, the Israelite is 
prohibited to accept the money. MHence, in the former case, 
the money is allowed. And why is it forbidden in the latter 
case? Because, said R. Sheshith, the Israelite would then ap- 
parently wish for the existence of a prohibited object till it gets 
sold. But is there not a Mishna that, a proselyte and a heathen 
having inherited their father, a heathen, the former may say: 
You take the idols and I the money, you the wine and I the 
other fruit in exchange; but as soon as an object enters the con- 
trol of the proselyte all exchange is forbidden? Now, you see 


“hove THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


that, though the proselyte doubtless wishes for the existence of 
the prohibited objects, the exchange is originally allowed, Said 
R. Papa: The sages treated exceptionally this case of a prose- 
lyte with leniency in order not to encourage his return to heath- 
endom. Yea, there is a Boraitha to this effect: The decision ~* 
in favor of the proselyte is limited only to the case of inherit- 
ance, but does not concern partnership. 

The above-mentioned sages happened to be once more 
together and to discuss the following question: Can a citizen- 
proselyte, a heathen settled down in the land of Israel, on hav- 
ing taken upon himself not to practise idol-worship only, pro- 
fane an idol, or only an actual idol-worshipper can do this? 
R. Na’hman said: In all probability the latter is the case. . 
An objection was raised from the following Tosephtha: An 
Israelite who found an idol in the market, may, before taking 
possession thereof, ask a heathen to profane it, but not after he 
had taken possession of it; and the reason is that the sages have 
established a rule that a heathen may profane his own idol as 
well as that of his neighbor immaterial whether he worships 
it or not. Now let us see what does the last expression 
** whether he worships or not’’ mean; if it means a heathen, it 
is superfluous, as it was already stated that a heathen may pro- 
fane his neighbor’s idol although he has not worshipped it; we 
must then say that it means a citizen-proselyte, hence the latter 
can profane? Nay; it may speak only of a heathen, and as to 
the apparently superfluous expression, it may be said that the 
first part speaks of the idols of one kind, ¢.g., both of the kind 
Peor or Markules, while the last part has in view two different 
idols, ¢.g., one of Peor and the other of Markules, and neverthe- 
less the heathen may profane even the one in whose worship he 
does not believe. Another objection was raised: Who is called 
a citizen-proselyte? He who took upon himself before three 
scholars not to practise any idol-worship, so said R. Mair; 
while the sages define him to be one who binds himself to ob- 
serve the seven commandments accepted by the descendants of 
Noah. According to some anonymous teachers, such proselyte 
is only he who accepts all the commandments of the Torah ex- 
cept eating the meat of carcasses. Such a proselyte may be left 
alone for some short while in a room where Jewish wine is kept; 
however, it is not allowable to store such wine in his house even 
when the majority of the city inhabitants be Israelites. He may 
be employed as watchman of such wine even where the heathens 





pat PR ee 





a S ERE eRe Te 





ar Se See > ee ee > 3. a 
es Se ho ps 3s Pe ee a, ee 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). a ha 


make up the majority of the population. His oil is subject to 
the same regulations. But can oil be prohibited by itself? Nay; 
reverse the statement and read: Wine is subject to the same 
regulations with oil; while with regard to all other things this 
proselyte is on equal terms with the heathen. R. Simeon, how- 
ever, holds that the wine of such a proselyte is regarded as 
offered wine. According to others, however, R. Simeon allows 
the wine even to drink. Now that this Boraitha declares this 
proselyte on equal terms with the heathen in all other respects, 
it is indicated that he can profane an idol, which contradicts R. 
Na’hman’s view. Retorted R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak: This equali- 
zation refers but to the law regulating both the transferring and 
renouncing of his ownership (explained in Erubin). 

R. Jehudah sent once a present to the heathen Abidrana on 
one of the heathen feast-days, justifying this his action thus: 
I know that Abidrana does not worship idols. Said to him R. 
Joseph: Your reasoning appears fallacious, because of the above- 
cited Boraitha that he, a proselyte, must take upon himself before 
three scholars to renounce all idol-worship, which condition is 
wanting in your case. Rejoined R. Jehudah: This Boraitha 
intends but to say that this one condition binds the Jewish com- 
munity to support this proselyte in case he becomes poor. 
Thereupon the other objected: Has not Rabba b. b. ’Hana said 
in the name of R. Johanan that a citizen-proselyte who fails to 
let himself circumcise during twelve months is to be regarded as 
a heathen heretic? Accordingly, you should not have givena 
present to Abidrana, who is not circumcised. Answered R. 
Jehudah: R. Johanan surely meant that a proselyte who fails 
to keep his promise to be circumcised within twelve months is 
a heretic. 

Once Rabha wanted to give on a heathen feast-day a present 
to the heathen Bar Sheshach, who he knew was no idol-wor- 
shipper. But when he came into his house he saw him sitting 
in a bath of rosewater, and surrounded by indecent and dis- 
graceful girls. Upon noticing Rabha, the heathen exclaimed: 
Have you Jews in prospect such pleasures in your paradise? 
And Rabha answered: Much better than these. Do you really 
mean, said the other, that there are greater pleasures than this? 
Retorted Rabha: In the heat of all your voluptuousness you 
can’t help fearing lest the king disturb you and mar your plea- 
sure; while we expect to be free from such fear in paradise! 
Well, said the heathen, if others do, I, for my part, do not fear 


140 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the king. No sooner had he uttered this than a messenger. 


came from the sovereign and said to Bar Sheshach: Go in all 
haste to the king, as he wants to speak to you! Then Bar 


Sheshach, addressing himself to Rabha, said: May the eye that 


wishes to see evil jump out of its orbit; whereupon Rabha said: 
Amen! And the eye of Bar Sheshach jumped out immediately. 
R. Papi said: Rabha should have applied this verse in answer to 
Bar Sheshach—viz. [Ps. xlv. 10]: ‘‘ Kings’ daughters are among 
those dear to thee: the queen standeth on thy right hand in fine 
gold of Ophir.’” R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak would have preferred 
this verse [Is. Ixiv. 4]: ‘‘ No eye had seen a god beside thee, 
who could do [the like] for the one that waiteth for him.”’ 

““ But if he was hired for some other work,’’ etc. It is ap- 
parent from here that the wages are allowable even when the 
laborer had been ordered to carry the wine before he finished 
the other work; and yet there is a Tosephtha: When the heathen 
tells his Jewish laborer, after he has finished his day’s work, to 
carry a cask of offered wine from one place to another, the wages 
are allowed, but the remuneration for the carrying is not; but 
if the heathen ordered him to do this sometime during the 
day’s work, the whole pay is forbidden. Hence this appar- 
ently contradicts the Mishna? Said Abayi: The Mishna, too, 
implies the same limitation. Rabha, however, interprets the 
Mishna to allow the wages even when the carrying was done in 
the middle of the other work, and meets the apparent contra- 
diction thus: The Tosephtha teaches: When a heathen tells his 
Jewish laborer: Carry 100 casks from this to that place and I 
will pay you 100 perutoth, and it was then found that ninety- 
nine of the casks were with oil while one was with offered wine, 
all the wages are prohibited, for it is the last forbidden cask that 
completes the claim for wages. The Mishna, however, intends 
to teach that, when the laborer works per cask, he is allowed to 
receive the wages and to reject the pay for so many forbidden 
casks he had to carry. This exposition of the subject coincides 
with the following Boraitha: A Jewish laborer hired to carry 100 
casks among which one was found to contain offered wine is 
prohibited from all his wages; if, however, he was hired to be 
paid per each cask, he should cast away the pay for this one 
prohibited cask, while the other pay is allowed. 

‘* If a heathen hires of a Jew anass,’’ etc. This rule, which 
is obviously implied in the first statement, is mentioned by the 
Mishna merely for the sake of its second part—viz.: If, how- 


ae SO. ee ae 





Se ee ee ee re eae 5 


Be an 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). © 141 


ever, he hired it in order to sit thereon, the reward is allowed 
even when he had along with him the wine-flask.* 

The father of R. A’ha b. R. Ika, who was a winedealer, 
sold once wine to heathens. He had to bring it over across a 
river and empty it into their casks, retaining his for his trouble. 
This subject was brought before Abayi, and he said: What 
R. A’ha’s father is doing is certainly allowed, for the wine is 
not prohibited unless already in the casks of the heathens. 

MISHNA //.: If offered wine be poured on grapes, they 
must only be washed and are allowed. If, however, they were 
cracked, they are prohibited. Again, when such wine be poured 
on dates and figs, they are forbidden if the wine impart them 
a pleasant flavor. Bithus b. Zonan brought once dried figs in 
a ship, and a cask of offered wine happened to burst, the wine 
spilling upon the figs, but the sages who were asked on this 
point declared them allowable. The rule is: A prohibited thing 
renders another one forbidden if it imparts to it a pleasant 
flavor, but if not, it is allowed, ¢.g., vinegar poured over grit. 

GEMARA: The decision of the sages in the case of Bithus 
is apparently in contradiction with the prohibition immediately 
preceding it. The explanation, however, is that the Mishna is 
not complete, and must read as follows: If the wine imparts 
them a good flavor they are forbidden; but when it causes them 
to become insipid, they are allowed; which latter took place in 
the case of Bithus. 

Once such wine was spilt on a heap of wheat, and Rabha, 
when asked on the point, allowed to sell the wheat to heathens 
and to use the money thereof. Rabba b. Levi objected to this 
decision by reason of the following: When a linen thread is 
woven into a woollen cloth or vice versa, a wool thread into a 
linen cloth, the Israelite is forbidden to make thereof either 
a garment or a saddle, or to sell it to heathens; he is allowed to 
make of it only shrouds for the dead. That these things are not 
sellable to heathens, can be accounted for only by the assump- 
tion that the heathens may thereafter resell them to Israelites 
who, not knowing that there is a prohibited thread in the cloth, 
will make garments of it. Now, then, we have in the wheat 
a perfectly analogous case. Rabha, on hearing the objection, 
ordered the wheat to be first ground, then to bake of its flour 
bread, which may be sold to heathens, provided no Israelite 





* For a contradiction to this from a Boraitha, see Middle Gate. 


142 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


notices it, lest he might buy the bread of the heathens. But 
again, why should not the wheat present the same case as the 
grapes of the Mishna, which must be only washed in order to 
be allowed? Because, said R. Papa, the wheat grain has a slit 
in the middle which makes it similar to cracked grapes. Abayi 
and Rabha are of the same opinion: When old prohibited wine 
is poured on grapes and they get therefrom an agreeable taste, 
they are prohibited. But concerning new wine, Abayi prohibits 
all the grapes as soon as one drop fell on them; while Rabha 
prohibits them not until after so much wine has fallen upon 
them as to change perceptibly their taste. Abayi’s reason is 
this: All objects of like taste belong, he believes, to one class, 
and as soon as a particle, however small, of the prohibited falls 
upon an object, and be this very big, it, too, becomes prohibited 
(so, é.g., a drop of forbidden wine falling into a cask renders the 
wine therein forbidden), and grapes he regards of the one class 
with wine. On the other hand, Rabha takes for his basis of 
classification not the taste but the zame of the objects, so that 
homonymous objects will render each other prohibited if ;1, of 
the one falls into $2 of the other, when a perceptible change in 
taste may occur, but not if ¢, falls into $2 or more of the other. 

In the case when beer-vinegar was intermixed with wine- 
vinegar, or oaten yeast with wheat yeast, of which in both cases 
one was allowed and the other forbidden, Abayi prohibits the 
whole mixture only when the forbidden ingredient tastes per- 
ceptibly, while Rabha would prohibit it even when but a drop of 
the forbidden fell into a whole cask of vinegar; likewise with the 
yeast Abayi defends his position by his theory: As the ingredi- 
ents here being of different tastes are not of the same class, the 
resulting mixture is forbidden only when the prohibited sub- 
stance is discernible by taste. Rabha, on the other hand, recurs 
to his name-theory: The vinegars and so the yeasts are hom- 
onymous, hence of the same class, consequently a drop of the 
prohibited suffices to render the whole so. Furthermore, Abayi 
endeavors to justify his name-theory by the following argumen- 
tation. We learn: When spices, forbidden with the same pro- 
hibition, of the same kind but of three different names, such as, 
é.g., pepper, white, black and long, or when spices of three dif- 
ferent prohibitions but of the same kind and name, all mix in 
“some meal, it is prohibited, for they are counted together. 
Thereupon said ’Hiskia: This Mishna speaks of spices possess- 
ing equal properties so as to sweeten the meal, when they can 











TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 143 


be counted together, but not otherwise. Now you see, then, 
that this, ’Hiskia’s explanation, is in the light of my consider- 
ations quite plausible, as he guides himself by the taste, while 
viewed from Rabha’s standpoint how can the three spices be 
counted together now that each has a different name. Here- 
upon Rabha rejoined: This does not prove your opinion at all, 
since this Mishna expresses not R. ’Hiskia’s view but that of 
R. Mair of the following Boraitha: R. Jehudah said in the 
name of R. Mair: When different forbidden things mix with 
one that is allowed, they may be added to count as one whole, 
for it reads [Deut. xiv. 3]: ‘‘ Thou shalt not eat any abomina- 
tion,’ etc., z.e., whatever is detestable by the law, is forbidden 
to eat. Hence, whatever is forbidden, and be it of neither 
equal name nor taste, can, according to R. Mair, be counted 
together. Concerning wine into which forbidden vinegar fell 
in, so that its taste is discernible in that of the wine, all agree 
that it is prohibited; but if the vinegar is not discernible, the 
wine is allowed. In the case when prohibited wine mixed in 
vinegar, Abayi forbids latter even if only one drop fell into it, 
since the sme// of the wine is changed when in proximity with 
the vinegar and it assumes that of the latter, hence, it is as if 
vinegar fell into vinegar and makes it forbidden even by a drop. 
Rabha, on the other hand, holds that only then is the vinegar 
forbidden when the taste of the wine in it is perceptible, other- 
wise they remain two separate classes even if the smell of the 
wine is changed to that of vinegar. Rabha and Abayi said: A 
heathen may put his nose to the ventilatory orifice of a cask 
with wine in order to smell the state of the wine, and be it the 
wine of an Israelite it is not rendered prohibited thereby. An 
Israelite, however, is not allowed, according to Abayi, to do the 
like on the wine of heathens, its smell, like itself, being prohib- 
ited; while Rabha allows the smell. 

‘“* The rule is: a prohibited thing renders another one forbid- 
den,’’ etc. Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: This rule 
is the prevailing Halakha. Furthermore, the grit spoken of in 
the Mishna is allowed only when it was hot at the time the for- 
bidden vinegar fell upon it, for since vinegar imparts a good 
odor to cold grit, latter is prohibited even if it be boiled after 
in order to eliminate the good odor. Rabin, on his return from 
Palestine, said in the name of Rabba b. b. Hana, quoting R. 
Johanan as interpreting the Mishna in the very same sense. 
R. Dimi, too, quoted R. Johanan to the same effect, adding 


144 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


yet that the people of Ciporias are in the habit of preparing on 


Fridays a meal consisting of cold grit mixed with vinegar and 


called shichlaim. Resh Lakish interprets this point of the 
Mishna as follows: That the spoiling of taste by a forbidden 
thing leaves the mixture allowed, intends to teach that even if 
this bad taste has been subsequently ameliorated by pepper, 
salt or other spices, the mixture remains allowed. 

R. Abuhu says in the name of R. Johanan: A forbidden 
object dropped into a food and both visible and smellable 
therein, renders it unallowable to eat; whoever eats it is liable 
to stripes, provided, however, he ate of the forbidden object 
the size of an olive and for so long that one could consume in 
this time a food equivalent in size to four eggs. But if the for- 
bidden object be only tastable and not visible, the food is pro- 
hibited, and the consumption thereof is not attended with 
stripes. On the other hand, if this object heightens the already 
bad savor of the food, it is allowed. Why does not R. Johanan 
say: If this object renders the taste of the food insipid, it is 
allowed? He intends to indicate that the intrinsic bad taste of 
the food is a condition for its being allowed after the adultera- 
tion with a forbidden object, even when its taste is capable of 
being improved upon by the use of various spices; and this 
shows that the prevailing Halakha is in accordance with Resh 
Lakish. R. Kahana said: From this entire discussion it is evi- 
dent that a forbidden object dropped into a food and rendering 
it more insipid, leaves it allowed. Hereupon said Abayi: All 
the participants of this discussion have unambiguously expressed 
their respective opinions, with the exception of Resh Lakish, 
who only interprets the Mishna, reserving to himself his own 
opinion on the point. Now that the Halakha allows the food 
in question, it is manifest that there were some sages who 
thought it unallowable; which is, indeed, the case, as we have 
learned in the following Boraitha: R. Mair prohibits a food or 
a beverage rendered either more palatable or more insipid by a 
forbidden object mixed with it, while R. Simeon prohibits it 
only when rendered more palatable. Said Ula: They differ only 
in case when the forbidden object renders the food first more 
palatable, but then insipid; but when it renders it immediately 
more insipid, all agree that it is allowed. R. ’Haga objected to 
Ula from the following: If prohibited wine or vinegar poured 
upon lentils or grits respectively, each renders the food forbid- 
den; R. Simeon, however, allows both by reason of their be- 





| 
az 






ae 


aS ee. Pim 


3 5 


iene 
Pit: 


~— 


ae et 
me 


=~ ae — 
pons oe See 
he ae Pe 


i. we. 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 145 


coming thereby more insipid. Now, this former opinion can be 
only that of R. Mair’s, who prohibits it though immediately ren- 
dered insipid. Ula answered: A man like ‘Haga, who has no 
notion of what the sages ever say, ventures upon raising objec- 
tions! The Boraitha adduced by him speaks of cold lentils and 
cold grits, which become more palatable by the wine or vinegar, 
but when put on fire they become more insipid, and it is this case 
that R. Mair forbids. R. Johanan, however, said: It is the 
case where a forbidden object renders a food more insipid right 
after mixing with it, that R. Mair prohibts and R. Simeon 
allows. 3 | 

It once happened that a mouse was found in a barrel of beer 
and Rabh prohibited the beer. Whereupon the rabbis said in 
the presence of R. Sheshith: From this decision of Rabh we see 
that he prohibits anything that is rendered more insipid by a 
forbidden object mixed with it. Said R. Sheshith: Nay; this 
is far from being the case; this decision is but an exceptional 
with Rabh. Indeed, a mouse is so detestable a creature that 
no one would think of eating, and yet the law specifically pro- 
hibits it. It is this circumstance that induced Rabh to the 
above decision. However, R. Simi from Nahardea said: A 
mouse is by no means so abominable a creature; as a matter of 
fact, the field-mouse is being served even on princely tables, but 
in the case of the beer it was a house-mouse, and house-mice are ~ 
not eaten. Rabhasaid: The Halakha is that a forbidden object 
rendering the food more insipid leaves it allowed, and as to 
Rabh, his reason is not obvious; if he thought the insipidness 
of no account, the Halakha is against him, or maybe he thought 
that the mouse contributes toward bettering the taste of the 
beer! 

The schoolmen propounded a question: How is it when a 
mouse falls into vinegar? Said R. Hillel to R. Ashi: Such an 
incident occurred in the presence of R. Kahana and he prohib- 
ited the vinegar. R. Ashi remarked: This decision of R, 
Kahana hardly admits of generalization, for the mouse there was 
already wholly decomposed and he rationally feared lest some- 
thing of the mouse would be consumed together with the vine- 
gar. Rabina was about to allow the vinegar, provided its bulk 
was 100 fold that of the mouse, basing this upon the same law 
regarding Teruma, but R. Tachlipha b. Gisa reminded him to 
draw rather the comparison with the spices of the Teruma, where 
a portion of 1o1 fold is requisite. According to the calculation 

Io 


146 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


of R. Ashi the bulk of the vinegar in order to be allowed must 
be to that of the mouse in the ratio of fifty to one. R. Samuel 
b. Aika finds the ratio of sixty to one necessary to declare 
allowable the beer. This ratio remains as the prevailing Halakha 
with regard to all contamination by forbidden objects (e.g., when 
into a pot containing sixty pounds of allowed meat one pound 
of pork meat is mixed in, the whole mixture is allowed to eat). 
MISHNA ///.: Wine known as being watched is allowed 
when transported from place to place by a heathen and an 
Israelite, even if the latter absent himself. However, if he 
notifies the heathen that he is taking leave, and be it only for 
as short an interval as to enable one to bore a hole, close it up 
and have it dried, the wine is forbidden. R. Simeon b. Gama- 
liel says: This interval must be so long, that he could open the 
bunghole, close it again and have it dried. 
When an Israelite leaves his wine on the wagon or boat of 
a heathen and himself takes a shorter road, the wine is allowed 
even if he succeeded to reach first the destination and to have 
a bath meanwhile. But if he notified the heathen of his leave, 
and be it for only as short an interval as to enable one to bore 
a hole, close it, and have it dried, the wine is prohibited. R. 
Simeon b. Gamaliel says: As long as to open the bunghole, 
close it and have it dried. When an Israelite admits a heathen 
into his wine store, the wine is allowed, even if the Israelite is 
only coming in and out; if, however, he says that he is going 
to absent himself, and be it only for as short an interval as to 
enable one to bore a hole, close it and have it dried, the wine is 
forbidden. R. Simeon b. Gamaliel says: As long as to open 
the bung, close it again and have it dried. 
When an Israelite dines with a heathen at the same table, 
puts a bottle of wine on the table and another one on the by-table 
(deAgixos) and goes out, what is on the table is prohibited, what 
on the by-table is allowed; but if he said to the heathen: You 
only help yourself to the wine and drink, the bottle on the 
by-table is forbidden, too. If he leaves open casks they are pro- 
hibited; closed ones, they are only then forbidden when the 
heathen could unbung them, close again and have them dried. 
GEMARA: ‘“‘ Wine known as being watched,’’ etc. This 
seems to express the same idea of the following Boraitha: When 
he who accompanies his drivers leaves them to convey the clean 
objects from one place to another, himself going away from 
them even a whole mile, the objects remain clean; if, however, 




















TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 147 


he told them: You go ahead and I shall follow you, the objects 
are unclean, as soon as he loses sight thereof. R. Itz’hak inter- 
preted this Boraitha to mean in its first half that the owner had 
first to cleanse both his driver and animals with water. 

‘* When an Israelite leaves his wine in the wagon,’’ etc. These 
two cases, though seemingly identical, are providing for differ- 
ent points. Indeed, the latter case could not be so generalized 
as to include the former, for here it may be assumed that the 
heathen is under the influence of constant fear lest the propri- 
etor come in at any moment, while the condition on the wagon 
or boat is different. On the other hand, the former case cannot 
include the other one, for on the wagon there is yet a possi- 
bility left for the heathen to fear, lest he be overtaken by sur- 
prise and looked after from another direction, while in the store 
he could presumably lock the door, thus securing himself against 
surprise and doing what he pleases. Hence, the Mishna states 
both these cases. Rabba b. b. ’Hana in the name of R. Jo- 
hanan: The Mishna prohibits the wine only when the bunghole 
of the cask was closed up with lime, but if with clay, an interval 
so long as to enable the heathen to open the hole, close it again 
and let it dry is necessary to prohibit it. Whereupon it was 
objected: A Boraitha teaches that R. Simeon b. Gamaliel said 
to the sages: When the heathen broaches the cask and then 
closes it up again, this is recognizable on the outward as well as 
on the inner surface of the bung. Now, if the stuff of which 
the bung is made be clay, R. Simeon’s idea is clear, for clay 
when old becomes brighter in color, wherefor the new in it is 
easily distinguishable by the color, because the new clay cannot 
combine with the old one, since the hand cannot reach the inner 
sides. But if, as you incline to think, the sages speak of a /zme 
bung, the new lime is not recognized, having as it does the same 
color as the old one. This objection was met thus: R. Simeon 
b. Gamaliel, ignorant of whether the sages spoke of a lime and 
a clay bung, was endeavoring to show that even in the case of 
lime a change produced by breaking is discernible though only 
on the inward side; so that the sages answered this point, con- 
tending that so long as it is not recognizable on the outward, 
the wine is prohibited, for it is to be feared that the inner side 
of the bung might perchance become difficult of recognizing, or 
that it was altogether forgotten to examine it. Said Rabha: It 
seems that the Halakha prevails with R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, 
for the end of the Mishna gives his opinion without mentioning 


148 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


his name. And Rabha did well to remind of this, for otherwise 
it could be thought that the whole of the concluding paragraph 
(z.e., beginning with R. Simeon till the end) was said by R. Simeon 
b. Gamaliel. But now that the Halakha here prevails with R. 
Simeon b. Gamaliel, z.e., that there is no fear lest the heathen 
should break the cask, and above in Chap. II. it prevails with 
R. Eliezar, z.e., the cask being well bunged, there is no fear of 
the heathen’s opening it, why are we still refraining from keep- 
ing our wine in the house of a heathen? The answer is this: 
Every cask has a small orifice for ventilation, and it is feared 
lest the heathen should somehow get at the wine through it. 

Rabha said: Though Israelites that come into the house of 
a heathen prostitute may not resist the sexual impulse, yet the 
wine which they chance to bring there is allowed, for they will 
surely prevent the prostitute from touching it. If, however, 
heathens visit a Jewish prostitute, her wine becomes prohibited, 
for it is safe to conclude that since she lowers herself so much 
as to have intercourse with heathens, she will admit them to 
touch her wine, too. : 

A heathen once happened to enter the wine-store of an 
Israelite, where he himself -had some wine; he closed the door 
which had, however, a crevice, and through it he was seen stand- 
ing among the Israelite’s casks. Rabha decided this case thus: 
Only the casks visible through the crevice are allowed. 

Jewish wine was once stored up in a house where a heathen 
and an Israelite lived in the lower and upper floors respectively. 
One day the two, alarmed by a sudden noise in the street, went 
out to see what was the matter; the heathen was then the first 
to return, and locked the door. In this case Rabha allowed the 
wine, for, he argued, the heathen may think that the Israelite 
entered first and might surprise him any minute. In another 
case where a heathen was found among casks of Jewish wine at 
an inn, Rabha decided thus: If the heathen is suspicious of 
being a thief, the wine is allowed, for he will be afraid to touch 
it; but if this is not the case, the wine is forbidden, for once he 
approached it he must have touched it. 

There was another case where a heathen was found among 
the casks and Rabha decided it again conditionally—viz.: If the 
heathen has good reasons to account for his being in the cellar 
the wine is prohibited, because the fear of being surprised is 
counterbalanced by the said reasons, and he will surely touch 
the wine; but if he has no such reasons, the wine is allowed, 








ia Sa Fe ea ee IN 


pepe 


wh. Gan 
2 eae hee 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 149 


because of his fearing to be surprised. An objection was raised 
from the following: Unguarded Jewish wine in a public inn in 
which Israelites always come and go, but which happened to be 
closed so that it became inaccessible to Israelites; or wine left 
in the inn by an Israelite who requested a heathen from outside 
to watch it, is in both cases forbidden. In the latter case the 


_ heathen has sufficient ground to believe that the Israelite, who 


of his own accord made him the watchman of the wine, will not 
return so soon, so that there is ample time to touch the wine; 
this wine, we see, is indeed forbidden, though the heathen, if 
taken by surprise, would have no reasons to account for his 
being near it! Now, Rabha would allow the wine under these 
conditions. The Boraitha, then, must, therefore, be so inter- 
preted as to mean that the heathen would have reasons for 
approaching the wine. 

An Israelite and a heathen were once at an inn sitting and 
drinking wine. As the hour of prayer arrived, the Israelite 
went to pray, leaving the wine where it was. Rabha allowed 
this wine on the basis of the heathen’s fearing to be surprised. 

Once an Israelite was with his wine in a boat where a heathen, 
too, embarked. On hearing the trumpet announcing the ap- 
proach of Sabbath, the Israelite went on land to enjoy there the 
Sabbath day. Also in this case Rabha allowed the wine left 
alone on the boat with the heathen, on the above basis. The 
possible objection here—viz.: The heathen, knowing that the 
Israelite will not on Sabbath come back to the boat, will have 
no fear of being surprised, Rabha meets by saying that the 
heathens do not believe the Israelites to keep the Sabbath so 
strictly, and he corroborates this view by citing the words of 
the proselyte, Issur, who told him that, when yet a heathen, he 
was sharing in the general conviction of all other heathens that 
the Jews merely pretend to observe the Sabbath day, because if 
they actually kept it, there would be found the pocket-books 
lost in the streets, since the Jews are prohibited from picking 
them up on Sabbath. However, the proselyte went on: Since 
he became an Israelite he has learned to know better the law 
laid down on this point by R. Itz’hak—viz.: When an Israelite 
finds on Sabbath a pocket-book, he must stop for a while, then 
move on for a distance less than four ells, stop again, etc., till 
he reaches his house, where he may leave it, and this is the 
reason why there are no pocket-books in the streets on the day 
of Sabbath. 


150 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


An Israelite once happened to leave his wine in the press. 
Meanwhile a heathen, who heard the roaring of a lion, ran into 
the press among the casks of wine for his life. Rabha allowed 
this wine, because the heathen will surely think that some 
Israelite, too, may chance to save himself here from the lion, 
and thus take him by surprise, were he to attempt at touching 
the wine. 

In the city of Pumbeditha thieves once intruded into a 
house, and it was afterward feared that the casks of wine had 
been opened by them. As it was not certain whether the thieves 
were Jews or heathens, the case was brought before Rabha, who 
allowed the wine,on the ground that the majority of thieves in 
that city are Jews. Ina similar case that occurred in Nahardea, 
Samuel, too, allowed the wine. 

A heathen girl was once found among the casks of Jewish 
wine, holding in her hands wine froth. Rabha allowed the 
wine, for she might have gotten the froth on the outside of the 
cask, which, though now no longer noticeable there, might have 
come out before by chance. 

Soldiers once arrived at Nahardea, and opened quite a num- 
ber of Jewish casks. R. Dimi tells of a similar case that occurred 
in Palestine, and R. Elazar allowed the wine, with no definite 
reasons, however, to base this decision; he either guided him. 
self by the opinion of R. Eliezar, who holds that a doubt as to 
whether or no a heathen came near the wine found open is a 
reason to allow it; or he assumed that the majority of the 
soldiers were Jews. ; 

A Jewish woman, dealing in wine, once left her keys in 
charge of a heathen, and the question came up as to whether 
her wine she has in the tavern is allowed? Said R. Itz’hak in 
the name of R. Elazar: A similar case was once cited before the 
sages assembled in college, and they allowed the wine; because 
entrusting one with the taking care of the key by no means 
allows him into the room. Abayi said: A like decision is pro- 
nounced in the following Boraitha: When one leaves to the care 
of an ignoramus the keys of his barn where fruit is stored up, 
the fruit is not defiled, because the keeper of the key is only 
appointed to watch the key. It is thus obvious that, since in 
the case of an ignoramus who is ignorant of the rules regarding 
cleanness the fruit is none the less allowed, the more so in 
case of the wine. It must, moreover, be concluded from here 
that the provisions of wine are not so stringent as those of 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 151 


cleanness. The like was, indeed, taught, as follows: When a 
Jewish scholar lives in the same house with an ignoramus, each 
having his own courtyard separated from the other’s by a low 
partition, so that one can look over into the other one’s yard, 
and the scholar stores up in his yard something capable of being 
defiled, and goes away, these things are rendered unclean on the 
assumption that his ignorant neighbor has touched them. But 
if the scholar’s neighbor is a heathen and the former deposited 
wine in his own yard, this is, according to Rabh, allowed. R. 
Johanan, however, holds that the former, too, remains clean. 

MISHNA /V.: When an army enters a town in time of 
peace, the open wine-casks are forbidden, the closed ones are 
allowed; but if in time of war, both are allowed, for there is no 
leisure then to make libations. 

GEMARA: This Mishna was contradicted from the follow- 
ing: When acity is conquered by a besieging army, the wives 
of the priests are prohibited to their husbands. Whence it fol- 
lows that the soldiers find time for debauchery. Thereupon 
replied R. Mari that they do not find time for offering wine, 
but they find it for satisfying their voluptuous inclinations. 

MISHNA V.: Artisans who are offered by a heathen a cask 
of offered wine as their remuneration, are allowed to ask of him 
its worth in money; if, however, the wine has already entered 
their possession, they are forbidden to ask it. 

GEMARA: R. Jehudah said in the name of Rabh: A Jew 
may say to a heathen, Go and pay for me the government taxes, 
without becoming liable, even if the heathen gave to the treasury 
wine instead of money. The following Boraitha was, however, 
adduced as objecting to this view: A Jew is not allowed to ask 
a heathen: Go and gratify for me this or that officer. Hereupon 
Rabh answered: The two cases are incomparable; / allowa Jew 
to pay his taxes through a heathen, while the Boraitha prohibits 
him from asking the heathen to do such a thing for which doing 
the Jew is himself responsible. 

MISHNA V7Z.: He who sells his wine to a heathen is allowed 
to use the money, provided he has fixed the price defore meas- 
uring the wine, but if he had first measured out and then de- 
termined the price, the money is forbidden. 

GEMARA: Amemer said: The law governing the transition 
of title in an object with the object itself extends to non-Israel- 
ites as well; instance the Persians, who are in the habit of send- 
ing presents to one another; they can never get back the present 


152 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


which once reached the possession of the other one, since ex 
facto the title passes to the latter and the present is regarded 
his ownership. R. Ashi, however, questioned this positive ex- 
tension of the law, and rejected the adduced instance as not con- 
vincing, because the fact that the Persians do not return pres- 
ents is due merely to the pride they take in not asking back 
whatever they have once given away (but if they were asking it 
back, it would have to be returned). This view can be further 
substantiated by the following: Rabh was instructing the Jew- 
ish winesellers to take of the heathen the money Jdefore giving 
him the wine, and to rather lend him money for which he might 
buy his wine, than to give him wine on credit, for by the fact 
of getting the wine he does not yet obtain title therein, hence, 
he renders it as Jewish wine unallowable for use. This shows 
convincingly that the law mentioned at the outset is not ex- 
tended to non-Israelites. Thereupon it was further argued that 
Rabh would prohibit the wine only when it has been measured 
out to the heathen in “zs vessels, which fact, apart from the 
question of ownership, renders of itself the wine forbidden. 
But, was again contended, admitting this argument, we can 
none the less say that the question of ownership zs concerned 
here—viz.: The wine becomes unallowable as soon as it reaches 
the bottom of the heathen’s vessel, but it becomes his property 
as soon as the Israelite degins to pour it, 2.2., before it reaches 
the bottom of the heathen’s vessel and when it is yet allowed, 
and still Rabh instructs the wineseller to take the money /jirst. 
Whence it may be inferred that the flow is considered a con- 
necting link. . 
Shall we assume that Rabh told the Jewish winedealears to 
have their heathen customers pay in advance, because he holds 
that the jet between the two vessels unites them so as to be re- 
garded one, wherefore the wine becomes forbidden as soon as 
the first drop of it touches the heathen’s vessel ? However, the 
adduced is not at all evidence that the said law is not extended 
to the non-Jews, for if the heathen kept the vessel in his hand 
while the Isrealite is pouring Rabh would not prohibit the 
money, as he prohibits only when the vessel stands on the 
ground while the pouring is being done. It can, however, be 
shown that, notwithstanding this, it zs evidence against the ex- 
tension of the said law. For, the wine is the heathen’s property 
as soon as it enters his vessel, and yet it is not forbidden, unless 
he touches it; and the Israelite would be allowed to take the 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 153 


money also after, were this law extended to the non-Jews, too. 
Now that Rabh requires the payment to be made in advance, it 
is clearly shown that the law is not extended beyond the Jews. 

Or shall we assume that Rabh holds that so long as the ob- 
ject sold is in the vendors’ house, though in the purchasers’ ves- 
sel, it is not regarded as received until after the purchaser takes 
it into his hand? But this would speak neither for nor against 
the extension of the law. The fact is that Rabh requires pay- 
ment in advance for an entirely different reason, viz.: he fears 
lest the vessel brought by the heathen to the Israelite have some 
wine drops on its brim, so that as soon as the wine poured in 
touches them it gets all prohibited. 

If we admit this to be the case, it would seem that Rabh 
differs with R. Simeon b. Gamaliel who said: When forbidden 
wine is entered into allowed one, it is not allowed to drink, but 
it is allowed to sell it and derive benefit from its money, except- 
ing however the worth of the admixed forbidden wine, which 
should be cast into the sea. Nay, Rabh does not differ with, 
but holds that R. Simeon allows the benefit of the wine only 
when there was mixed among many casks one of forbidden wine; 
then all casks may be sold and ‘the worth of, the one forbidden 
should be cast into the sea: but if wine is mixed with wine, also 
he prohibits all benefit thereof. . 

The following objection was raised against Amemer: When 
an Israelite buys of a heathen old silver where he finds an idol, 
he should, upon receiving title in, and paying money for, the 
silver, throw the idol into the sea; if, however, he has not yet 
paid the money for, though already received, the silver, he 
should return the same, saying: I do not buy it. Now, if the 
law were extended to non-Jews, how could here the Israelite re- 
turn the silver already received by him? Said Abayi: This is 
no objection, as in this case the transaction is made merely by 
error, the Israelite believing all the time that he receives old 
silver and not an idol; hence, as he had not in mind to buy an 
idol, he may return it. But, rejoined Rabha, if you consider 
this but an erroneous transaction, why should the Israelite cast 
the idol into the sea, once he has paid the money ? Why should 
he not rather return it also here and disclose the error? The 
answer is that the Israelite may, indeed, regard the transaction 
erroneous, but lest it should appear as if the Israelite is getting 
money for an idol, the sages prohibited him to return it. 

Mar, the elder son of R. ’Hisda, said to R. Ashi: But it is 


154 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


expressly stated in the Mishna that if one sells his wine toa 
heathen and has determined the price before he measures out 
the wine, the money is allowed. Now, if according to your 
opinion the foregoing law is not extended to non-Israelites, how 
should we understand this Mishna? Here of necessity the wine 
would have to be considered the’ Jew’s property, until after he 
has received the money; but as the wine becomes prohibited 
when touched by the heathen, the Jew should not be allowed to 
take the money therefor? Hence we must say that the law is 
extended, and the wine (of the Mishna) is regarded property of 
the heathen as soon as he has received it, so that by touching it 
he renders prohibited his property, and therefore the Jew is 
allowed to take the money. Hereupon said R. Ashi: The 
Mishna may be understood also without your explanation, viz.: 
He had received the money before the heathen took possession 
of the wine. But, retorted the other, if so, how is the conclud- 
ing sentence of the Mishna to be understood, viz.: If he had 
measured out the wine before he determined the price, the bene- 
fit of the money is forbidden? Said R. Ashi: And according 
to your opinion the wine belongs to the heathen as soon as he 
has received it, why then is here the money forbidden? You 
see then that the main point here is the fixing of the price. It 
is namely the fixing of the price that conditions the passing of 
the title: if the price was fixed defore the measuring, the wine 
is the heathen’s and its money is, therefore, allowed; but if 
after, it is not yet the heathen’s and its money is forbidden. 
Said Rabina to R. Ashi: Come and hear what R. ’Hyya b. 
Aba said in the name of R. Johanan, if a descendant of Noah 
steals an object worth even less than a feruta, his sentence is 
death, and the law of returning (the stolen) is not applied here. 
Now, why is this law not applied here ? presumably because the 
object in question is of so little value that no one will care to 
require it. Assuming now that the previously discussed law is 
not extended to non-Israelites, why should a descendant of 
Noah be subject to capital punishment for stealing from a Jew, 
when the object is here always to be regarded as remaining the 
property of the Jew? Hereupon said R. Ashi: It is so indeed, 
and he is not put to death for the theft, but for his intention to 
kill the Jew if he attempted to resist. Retorted Rabina: If 
such be the case, how do you understand the non-applicability 
in this case of the law of returning? And he answered: As the 
descendant of Noah causes by said intention a state which he 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 155 


can neither annul nor reward, the said law is not applicable here. 
(Says the Gemara): If so, how is’ to be understood the last part 
that when his comrade robs from the first thief the stolen object, 
he is to be put to death; now, according to your opinion, the 
second robber who has nothing to do here with the Jew, should 
not be put to death! Hence it is shown that the law regarding 
the passing of title in an object (by merely touching it) does 
extend to non-Israelites. 

Once an Israelite said to his neighbor: When I make up my 
mind to sell this field I will sell it to you. Later on he sold it 
toathird party. R. Joseph decided that the first one is entitled 
to the field, provided he gives the same price offered by the 
other purchaser. Abayi, however, disputed this decision on the 
ground that the owner did not fix a price when making the 
promise to the first party; and, as it is evident from our Mishna, 
a sale is determined by the fixing of the price, I should like to 
know if the Mishna concerns itself only with wine because of its 
being very rigorous, or also with a// other sales? Come and 
hear. Aidi b. Abin said: A case similar to that of the fore- 
going sale of the field was once brought up before R. ’Hisda, 
and he consulted R. Huna about it. R. Huna decided it from 
the following Mishna: When one brings to market fruit on ani- 
mals or men, and a purchaser, asking him to convey this fruit 
to his house, himself leads the men or animals with the fruit to 
his house, the fruit is not yet thereby considered his own, and 
it is immaterial whether the price was determined upon before 
or after the measuring of the fruit. The two, purchaser and 
vendor, may yet withdraw. But if the fruit was unloaded and 
carried into the house, the following conditions are determining: 
If the price had been fixed before the measuring began, the sale 
is a sale and neither vendor nor purchaser can withdraw; if, 
however, the measuring takes place before the fixing of the 
price, either party may nullify the transaction. It is thus obvi- 
ous that (the time of) fixing the price is a condition precedent 
to a valid transaction. 

An Israelite once said to his neighbor: When I make up my 
mind to sell this field, I will sell it to you for a hundred zuz. 
Sometime later he sold it to another one for 120 zuz, and R. 
Kahana decided the case in favor of the first party (to whom the 
owner made the promise). R. Jacob from Naharpakod disputed 
this decision, contending that the owner, while making his 
promise, had no desire yet to sell the field; it was only the high 


156 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


price of 120 that induced him to the sale, while for a hundred 
zuz he would not sell it yet. And the Halakha prevails with 
R. Jacob from Naharpakod; ¢.g., if one offers to sell to his 
fellowman an article for a price estimated by three people and 
then two of them find the article to be worth 100 zuz and the 
third estimated it at 120 zuz, the estimate of the two prevails. 
But if the condition of the offerer was that the price be deter- 
mined by three people, all the three must agree in their deter- 
mination of the price. (The reason of this distinction is that in 
the former case the three persons who are to estimate constitute 
a jury, and hence the majority rules, while in the latter case the 
three are to determine the price, which can be done by persons 
not on the jury, and hence the determination must be unanim- 
ous.) However, if the offerer put up the condition that the 
price of the article be either estimated or determined by four, 
unanimity is a requisite in both the cases (because by leaving 
the matter to four people the vendor clearly indicates that he 
does not want a jury, as a jury never consists of four). Again, 
if the vendor after empowering three men to estimate the article 
refuses afterward to abide by their estimate, requiring to choose 
another three men who, he thinks, better understand the value 
of such articles, R. Papa says: He has the right to do so, while 
R. Hunab. R. Jehoshua denies him such right on the ground that 
with such a right the vendor would be enabled to drag the trans- 
action ad infinitum. And the Halakha prevails with R. Huna 
b. R. Jehoshua. 

MISHNA V//.: If the funnel was first used to measure 
through it into the heathen’s flask and then into that of an 
Israelite, the wine of the latter is forbidden when there has been & 
left in the funnel a drop or so from the heathen’s wine. Fur- 
thermore, wine left in the vessel after some of it has been poured 
into a heathen’s vessel, is allowed, but the wine poured outis ~ 
forbidden. | ; 

GEMARA: An objection was raised from the following 
Mishna: The jet formed by the pouring, the streaming flow and 
the moisture form no connecting link for either defiling or puri- 
fication, while a cellar does form a connection for both; and 
according to R. Huna the jet, etc., form also such a connection 
with regard to wine. 

R. ’Hisda once said to the Jewish wine-dealers: When pour- 
ing your wine into the cask of a heathen, you either do it ab- | 
ruptly, bending each time your vessel backward, or. do it all at 














a a ee 
Sat Ss Once ee 
Sh eco) SN eR 


ogee 
She haa 
oy Se 


nee 
Maen, 











TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 157 


once—all this in order that the jet may not connect the two 
vessels, Rabha said to the wine-pourers: Do not allow a 
heathen to assist you in pouring, for it may happen that 


‘a heathen, supporting all alone a vessel, would empty its con- 


tents without the aid of the Israelite, and this would render the 
thus emptied wine forbidden. 

An Israelite was once emptying wine from one cask to an- 
other by means of a siphon, when a heathen came and touched 
the siphon. Rabha prohibited the wine in both casks, Here- 
upon R. Papa, according to others R. Ada b. Mathna, or to 
still others, Rabina, said to Rabha: Shall we assume that the 
jet forms a connection, and that on this your decision is based? 
And the answer was: Nay; this case is of a different nature; 
the heathen’s touching the syphon is equivalent to his touching 
the cask itself. Mar Zutra b. R. Na’hman said: An Israelite 
may drink with a heathen from one decanter called anishkanin 
(having several pipes), provided the former is the first to stop 
drinking; for if the heathen were the first to stop, the wine left 
in the pipe would flow back into the decanter and render un- 
allowed the whole wine therein. Rabha b. R. Huna, when’at the 
house of the Exilearch, said the same, and according to others, 
he himself drank from a kanishkanin. 

MISHNA V///,: Devoted wine is prohibited and renders 
unallowable even by a minimal quantity; the same is the case 
with devoted wine or water mixed with other wine or water 
respectively, and be it in a minimal quantity, likewise wine with 
water or vice versa, provided the quantity be such as to impart 
a flavor to other ingredients. This is the rule: When the two 
ingredients are of the same kind, a minimal quantity suffices; 
if, however, they are of various kinds, the imparting of flavor 
determines. } 

GEMARA: On his return from Palestine, R. Dimi said in 
the name of R. Johanan: When an Israelite empties prohibited 
wine into a reservoir with allowed wine even for as long a time 
as the entire day, the whole of the wine is allowable, because 
the allowed wine of the reservoir being every time sixty fold - 
bigger than the first drops of the prohibited wine, keeps the 
entire wine allowable, z.¢., inclusive of the whole prohibited 
wine emptied into it. Now, how can this view be reconciled 
with the dictum of the Mishna that a minimal quantity of pro- 
hibited wine renders other things forbidden? Not otherwise 
than by reversing the order of its statement, thus: When 


158 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


allowed wine is emptied into forbidden one, and be it in a 
minimal quantity, the former is rendered forbidden. Come 
and hear another objection: Our Mishna further establishes 
‘‘the imparting of flavor’’ as criterion; does it not mean that 
the forbidden fell into the allowed? Nay; it means wice versa, 
But if the water spoken of in the first part means forbidden 
water, we must say that the same is the case with the water 
mentioned in the second part when it falls into the wine, and the 
‘imparting of flavor’’ is here the criterion? R. Dimi may say 
that the entire Mishna speaks of the permissible falling into the 
forbidden; but in the first it is the water that is the forbid- 
den, and in the second the wine is the forbidden and the 
water the permissible. R. Itz’hak b. Joseph on returning from 
Palestine said that R. Dimi’s version of R. Johanan’s view 
was faulty, and corrected it thus: When an Israelite empties 
forbidden wine from a vessel with a narrow mouth into a 
reservoir with allowed wine, even the whole day long, the 
forbidden wine is rendered allowable by the wine in the reser- 
voir on the basis of the sixty to one ratio. Whence it is 
manifest that R. Johanan allows to do this only from a 
narrow-mouthed vessel, which makes but a very thin jet, but 
not from a barrel that has a thick flow. Rabin, however, when 
he came from Palestine, declared this version, too, as inexact, 
and formulated R. Johanan’s opinion as follows: When for- 
bidden wine falls into the said reservoir and simultaneously a 
pitcher of water also falls in, the allowed wine of the reservoir 
is not taken account of; only the water must be reckoned in rela- 
tion to the forbidden wine, and if it be sixty fold the latter, the 
whole is allowed. R. Samuel b. Jehudah, on coming from Pal- 
estine, said that to Rabin’s version R. Johanan adds: Provided 
the water fell in first into the allowed wine in the reservoir, the 
incoming forbidden wine becomes allowed; if, however, the for- 
bidden wine first fell into the reservoir and then the water, all 
remains prohibited, because the wine has met with its own kind 
and asserts itself. According, however, to another opinion, R. 
Samuel b. Jehudah explains not Rabin’s version, but our Mishna, ~ 
where it says that wine mixed with wine, even in a minimal quan- 
tity, renders it prohibited. This, he says, R. Johanan under- 
stands as follows: If wine meets wine only, then a minimum 
renders prohibited; but if a pitcher of water falls also at the 
same time, the allowed wine is not counted at all, and the 
water, greater in quantity than the wine, abolishes it. And it 


ee ee ee 


Se 


Se eee eh, eee 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 159 


is by far not a matter of indifference whether Samuel’s expla- 
nation is concerned as relating to the said Mishna or to the 
foregoing version of Rabin. If it refers to the Mishna, he must 
be understood to allow the wine regardless of the question 
whether the water was first added to the allowed wine and then 
the forbidden wine or vice versa. On the other hand, if his 
explanation applies to Rabin’s version, he presumably holds 
that the water must come first and then the forbidden wine. 

It was taught: If forbidden wine falls into a reservoir, and 
simultaneously a pitcher of water, ’Hiskia prohibits it, provided 
the forbidden increased the quantity; but if the water increased 
the quantity, then he allows it. R. Johanan, however, allows 
also in the case when the quantity was increased by the for- 
bidden. R. Jeremiah asked R. Zera whether the difference of 
opinion exhibited by ’Hiskia and R. Johanan is the same as 
that shown by the respective opinions of R. Eliezar and the 
sages in the following Mishna: In a case when both ordinary 
and Teruma leaven fell into a dough and neither of the two 
would of itself cause fermentation, but together they would do 
so, R. Eliezar guides himself by that which fell in last, while 
the sages hold that the Teruma leaven does not render prohib- 
ited, unless it suffices to cause by itself fermentation, and it is 
immaterial whether it fell in first or last. Replied R. Zera: 
How can this be borne in mind? Did not Abayi say that R. 
Eliezar allows the dough only when the Teruma leaven was put 
in first, then taken out and the other leaven put in; but if the 
Teruma leaven remained, the dough is prohibited? ’Hiskia 
allows the wine even when the forbidden one remains. The 
difference in the opinions of ’Hiskia and R. Johanan concerns 
only the consideration (z.e., whether the allowed wine may be 
considered as non-existent). R. Johanan holds this theory of 
consideration, while ’Hiskia does not. 

The following was taught in support of this: R. Ami, accord- 
ing to others R. Assi, said in the name of R. Johanan: Suppose 
two goblets, one containing ordinary, the other Teruma wine, 
each diluted with water; if now the two wines be mixed into one 
goblet, the ordinary wine is not considered as existing at all, 
hence, if the water is to the Teruma wine in the ratio of sixty 
to one, the wine is negligible. 

‘* This ts the rule: When the two are of the same kind,a 
minimal quantity suffices ; tf, however, they are of various kinds 
the imparting of flavor determines.’’ Rabh and Samuel say that 


160 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


all objects biblically forbidden, render by minimal quantity pro- 
hibited all other objects of the same kind; but if of a different 
kind, they are made unallowable only when the flavor of the 
forbidden is perceptibly imparted to them. And this is in- 
ferred from the expression of the Mishna “‘ this is the rule,’’ 
which expression would be superfluous if not for generalizing 
this biblical prohibition. On the other hand, R. Johanan and 
Resh Lakish both decide all such cases of biblical prohibition 
by the rule of ‘‘ imparting flavor,’’ irrespective of identity or 
diversity of kinds; and the expression of the Mishna “‘ this is 
the rule’’ they explain as including a mixture of grain from 
which it is not known whether Teruma and tithe were separated. 

There are two Boraithas, one held in the sense of Rabh and 
Samuel, the other in that of R. Johanan and Resh Lakish: 
(1) All objects biblically forbidden render objects of the same 
kind prohibited by minimal quantity, objects of another kind by 
the imparting of flavor. (2) All objects biblically forbidden ren- 
der al/ other objects prohibited by the imparting of flavor irre- 
spective of kind; the mixture mentioned above and the wine form 
the only two exceptions: A mixture from which Teruma has not 
been separated, as well as offered wine, renders objects of the same 
kind forbidden by minimal quantity; objects of a diverse kind, 
by imparting flavor. The rigorousness of the wine regulation 
is readily justified, when we remember that here idol-worship is 
concerned; but why is it applied also to the mixture? The an- 
swer is that as regards the separating of Teruma the same law 
holds good—viz.: When the owner separates as Teruma but a 
single grain from a-_heap of 1,000 measures, it is, according to 
Samuel, sufficient; hence, when from such a heap of 1,000 
measures, from which no Teruma has as yet been separated, a 
single grain comes to another heap of like magnitude, the latter 
is rendered prohibited. And there is also a Mishna to the same 
effect: According to the sages an object renders prohibited other 
objects by minimal quantity when they are of the same kind, 
but if they are of various kinds, the imparting of flavor is the 
deciding factor. 

MISHNA/X.: The following objects are forbidden and ren- 
der prohibited by minimal quantity: Offered wine, an idol- 
image, holed hides, an ox sentenced to be stoned, the heifer 
destined for breaking off her neck, the fowl sacrifices of the 
leper, the hair of a Nazarite, the first-born of an ass, meat 
cooked in milk, the kid exported on the Day of Atonement, and 

















TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 161 


ordinary cattle slaughtered in the courtyard of the temple. All 
these objects are themselves forbidden and render prohibited by 
their minimal quantity. 

GEMARA: If the Mishna classifies these objects on the 
basis of their perceptible number, why does it not include here 
pieces of a carcass? Or if it enumerates only objects of which 
all benefit is forbidden, why does it not include leaven on Pass- 
over? Said R. ’Hyya b. Abba, according to others, R. Itz’hak 
of Naph’ha: The Mishna enumerates here objects that are both 
perceptible in number and prohibited for all benefit. 

‘“ All these oljects.’’ What does this expression exclude? 
Objects whose number is a matter of indifference, their benefit, 
though, being forbidden; or wice versa, objects allowed for 
benefit and perceptible in number; it is such objects that render 
prohibited not by minimal quantity, but by imparting flavor. 

MISHNA X.: When offered wine flows down into a reser- 
voir of wine, the benefit of the whole wine is forbidden. R. 
Simeon b. Gamaliel, however, says: The whole is allowed to be 
sold: to heathens, excepting the worth of the offered wine 
therein. 

GEMARA: Said Rabh: The Halakha prevails with R. 
Simeon b. Gamaliel only in the case when a cask of devoted 
wine was mingled among casks of Jewish wine; but when de- 
voted wine is mixed with other wine, the whole is forbidden. 
Samuel, however, says: The opinion of R. Simeon b. Gamaliel 
prevails as the Halakha concerning wine also. With Samuel 
agree Rabba b. b. ’Hana in the name of R. Johanan, R. Samuel 
b. Nathan in the name of R. Na’hman in the name of Rabha b. 
Abuhu. R. Na’hman himself, however, said that for practice 
it should be decided thus: If it is definitely known that the 
admixed wine was devoted wine, Rabh’s procedure is the right 
one; but if the case is doubtful, Samuel’s view is to be followed. 

MISHNA XVZ.: A stone wine-press waxed by a heathen 
must only be washed to remain clean; but if it is of wood, 
Rabbi says it must only be washed, while the sages say that the 
wax must be wholly removed. Finally, if it is a clay press it is 
forbidden even when the wax has been removed. 

GEMARA: Rabha interprets the Mishna thus: The wash- 
ing suffices only when the heathen waxed the press, but if he 
pressed his own wine therein, the entire wax must be removed. 
Is not this self-evident from the fact that the Mishna does not 
mention the pressing? Lest one say that the expression of the 


162 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Mishna is zof exclusive of the other case, hence his interpreta- 
tion. Here is a case to this effect. An Israelite once appeared 
before R. ’Hyya asking him thus: Send a man with me to inves- 
tigate whether my wine-press is in legal order, so that I might 
press my wine therein. Hereupon R. ’Hyya said to Rabh: Go 
and examine the man’s press, but state your opinion in a man- 
ner as not to excite any dispute in the college. Upon exam- 
ining the press, Rabh found it smooth, and thought it need 
only be washed. However, further examination revealed to 
him a fissure in which some wine, though dried up, was notice- 
able; then he decided that washing is not sufficient, but that 
the wax must be wholly removed, adding: I now understand 
the apprehension of my uncle regarding a possible dispute in 
the college consequent upon my decision; indeed, had I but 
relied upon my first superficial examination, my decision would 
have been disputed. 

The rabbis taught: A press, a ladle, and an earthen funnel 
that belong to a heathen and are not waxed Rabbi allows to 
use, provided they have first received a washing, while the sages 
prohibit them. As to the use of earthen wine-pitchers, Rabbi, 
too, forbids it, for such pitchers are used for a greater length of 
time, while the foregoing vessels are used but temporarily; but 
again, if these vessels are of wood or stone they are, after being 
washed, allowed if not waxed, but if waxed they are forbidden. 
Now, this last prohibition seems to conflict with the Mishna 
which declares clean a stone press waxed by a heathen, provided 
it be washed before using it? The answer is that the press of 
the Mishna is, though waxed, yet not used by the heathen, 
while the Boraitha speaks of a press where the heathen pressed 
wine. 

The master says: A press, a ladle and an earthen funnel that 
belong to a heathen, are allowed to use upon being washed first, 
while the Mishna prohibits an earthen press even after the wax 
thereof has been removed? Said Rabha: In the Boraitha it is 
Rabbi that allows, while the sages forbid here as well as in the 
Mishna. : 

Rabha lectured: When an Israelite wishes to use a heathen’s 
wine-press, he must first wash it with boiling water. When Rabha 
once sent his wine-pitchers to Harpania through a heathen, he 
put each pitcher-mouth downward into a sack and sealed the 
latter, thereby effecting a double sealing; for he was of the 
opinion that the sages prohibit such vessels as used to preserve 


aa 


Saxe 


is 





TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 163 


wine for a long time, even if they have been but for a short time 
in the hands of a heathen. 

How should the washing prescribed in both Boraitha and 
Mishna be done? Rabh says, with water; while Rabba b. b. 
"Hana says, with ashes—that is to say, the two require the wash- 
ing to be done with both water and ashes, and differ only as 
regards the order, Rabh requiring the water first, and Rabba 
the ashes first; not is their point of difference one of essence, 
as the former has in view dry vessels and the latter moist ones. 
The disciples of Rabh at Suro said in his name that the washing 
is done as follows: To dry vessels apply first water, then ashes, 
and then again water; to moist vessels, first ashes, and then 
water. The same disciples said in the name of Samuel: To 
moist vessel apply in this order: ashes, water, ashes; to dry 
ones, in this order: water, ashes, water, ashes. The disciples 
of Rabh at Pumbeditha quoted him as holding the just-cited 
view of Samuel, and Samuel as requiring this procedure: To 
moist vessels, ashes, water, ashes, water, z.e., four; to dry ves- 
sels, water, ashes, water, ashes, water, z.¢., five processes; 
hence, Rabh and Samuel are of the same opinion, with the only 
difference that the former does not count the last water, which 
Samuel does. 

R. Abuhu on being once asked how the cover of a heathen’s 
press should be cleaned, answered with the following Boraitha: 
Wine or oil-presses of an Israelite that have become unclean 
must be cleaned in the following manner: The sideboard of the 
press, the press itself and the brooms must be washed with 
water; the press cover, however, if made of hemp stalks or 
osier, must be washed according to the directions of Rabh and 
Samuel; but if it is of reed or thin wood, it must be left unused 
for a year; R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, however, finds the period 
between two consecutive press-seasons sufficient, which period 
is sometimes more sometimes less than a year. Said R. Jose: 
If the cover is needed for immediate use it should be put in 
boiling water or passed through the boiler where are roasted the 
olives from which the oil is pressed. R. Simeon b. Gamaliel 
said in his name: The cover may be put under the water of a 
cascade or of aspring. And for howlong? Foran Onah. The 
same laws which the sages have established with regard to clean 
and unclean, are also concerning the question of devoted wine. 

How long is an Onah? R. Hyya b. Abba said in the name 
of R. Johanan: An Onah is the length of either a day or a 


164 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


night. R. Hana b. Sheina, according to others, R. Hana b. 
Sheina, said in the name of Rabba b. b. ’Hana that R. Johanan 
makes an Onah equal to the length of a half a day and night. 
However, according to each version, the Onah equals twelve 
hours, since the one refers to the equinox and the other to the 
solstice season. 

R. Jehudah says: The bags of the heathens through which 
the wine is filtered of its dregs, are subject to the following 
regulations: If they are made of human hair, they must first be 
washed with water before an Israelite may use them; if of 
wood, they must pass through water and ashes; finally, if of 
linen, they must be set aside for twelve months, and if they 
have knots they must be unravelled. Baskets and beehives used 
by the heathens in working the wine, are under these rules: If 
woven of palm-twigs, they should be washed with water before 
the Israelite uses them; if of reed, the washing should be with 
water and ashes; linen sieves must be put aside for twelve 
months, and if they have a knot it must be opened. 

What must be done when an ignoramus thrust his hand into 
the wine-press and touches the grapes and the wine? Of the 
two sages, Rabbi and R. ’Hyya, one says only the grape touched 
by him and whatever is immediately adjacent thereto is unclean 
and must be removed from the press, but not the rest; while 
the other says: All that the press contains is defiled by his 
touch. The former opinion seems to conflict with the following 
Mishna: A reptile found in an oil-mill renders unclean only the 
place touched by it, but if there be a flowing liquid, all becomes 
unclean. The answer is that the grapes are on the twigs of the 
cluster, so that wood intervenes between the place touched and 
the fluid, and wood is not receptive of uncleanness. 

The sages taught to R. Jeremiah, according to others, to his 
son, that the Halakha prevails with him who says that only the 
part touched by the Amharetz and its immediate environment 
are unclean, while all the rest in the press is clean. 

MISHNA X//.: Utensils bought of a heathen must be 
cleansed according to usages: if they are customarily immersed 
in water, they must be cleansed so; if boiled, by boiling; if 
glowed, by glowing in fire. A spit or a gridiron must be 
glowed; a knife is cleansed even by grinding it. 

GEMARA: There is a Boraitha: The objects mentioned in 
the Mishna, upon being cleansed in the prescribed manner, 
must be again immersed in a tank holding forty saah of water. 











ae eee ge 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 165 


Whence is this deduced? Said Rabha, from [Numb. xxxi. 23]: 
‘“ Everything that cometh into the fire, shall ye make go 
through the fire, and it shall be clean.’’ The apparently re- 
dundant phrase ‘‘ and it shall be clean’”’ calls for another cleans- 
ing, which is the last immersing. 

Bar-Kapara taught: The last sentence of the verse is intro- 
duced by ‘‘ yet’’ in order not to give rise to the belief that the 
said objects must on the third and seventh day be besprinkled 
with the sprinkling water. Moreover, the term mei nidah (i.¢., the 
waters where the menstruant woman bathes) is used with a view 
toward emphasizing the necessity of immersing them not merely 
in water, but in a tank holding forty sath thereof. Again, it is 
also evident that both the sentences, that ‘‘ it shall be clean,’’ 
and the next one, “‘ yet it,’’ are necessary: the former alone 
would merely indicate the necessity of an additional immersing 
in general (and not in forty saaih); while the other sentence 
alone would give ground to assume that the rules regulating the 
said utensils are identical with those providing for the woman’s 
cleansing of her menses, which is, besides the immersing, yet 
conditioned by the sunset; hence, the former sentence serves to 
prevent such an assumption. R. Nahman said in the name of 
Rabba b. Abuhu: New utensils, too, bought of a heathen, must 
be cleansed, just as vessels passed through fire must none the 
less be also immersed; whereto, R. Sheshith opposed, saying 
that according to this opinion scissors bought of a heathen would 
also need immersing, to which R. Na’hman replied that it is 
only kitchen utensils that are concerned here. R. Nahman said 
again in the name of Rabba b. Abuhu: The rule of immersing 
applies only to utensils bought as it was in Midian, but not to 
those borrowed of a heathen. 

R. Itz’hak b. Joseph happened once to buy of a heathen an 
earthen vessel and wanted to immerse. it, when R. Jacob said to 
him: I have heard from R. Johanan that only metallic vessels 
need immersing. R. Ashi said: Vessels of glass, too, must be 
immersed, for they can, after being broken, be restored to their 
former state, wherefore they equal those of metal. As to glazed 
vessels R. A’ha and Rabina express theif opinions as follows: 
One holds that as these vessels are of earth they need not be 
immersed; while the other maintains that since in glazing lead 
is used, these vessels are regarded as metallic, and need im- 
mersing; and so the Halakha prevails. 

The schoolmen propounded a question: Is it allowed to use 


166 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


without immersion a new vessel received of a heathen as a 


pledge? Said Mar b. R. Ashi: A heathen once left with my — 


father a silver goblet as a pledge, and he had first immersed and 
then used it; however, I am not in a position to tell whether 
my father was of the opinion that a pledge is in general regarded 
as bought, wherefore immersion thereof is obligatory, or he knew 
in that particular case that the heathen was not going to redeem 
the goblet, so that it surely remained his property. 

The rabbis taught: New kitchen utensils bought of a heathen 
need immersion; furthermore, vessels already used by a heathen, 
but merely for preserving cold articles, such as goblets, small 
wine-pitchers and glasses, must be first washed with, and then im- 
mersed in, water; vessels, however, already used by the heathen 
to preserve warm food, etc., such as kettles, pans and water- 
boilers, must first be passed through boiling water and then im- 
mersed; finally, vessels used by the heathen only on fire, such 
as spits and gridirons, must first be glowed and then immersed. 
In case, however, an Israelite made use of such utensils without 
having submitted them to the prescribed process of cleansing, 
all that was kept or prepared in them is, according to one 
Boraitha, forbidden, and according to another, allowed; the one 
basing itself upon the opinion that all forbidden objects, even if 
they make a food when mixed to it insipid, render it prohibited, 
while the other Boraitha guides itself by the opposite opinion. 
But, may be asked in this connection, how does he who leaves 
an object allowable provided the admixed forbidden thing aug- 
mented its insipidness, interpret the Scripture’s prescribing to 
the Israelites to cleanse the vessels they acquired through their 
conquest of the Midianites? Said R. ’Hyyab. R. Huna: The 
prescription of Scripture just alluded to concerns only such 
kitchen utensils in which food was prepared during the very day 
of the conquest, as they were not capable yet to render other 
things more insipid. And the Scripture did not allow to leave 
these vessels for a day or so when they would render food in- 
sipid, fearing lest one would be tempted to use them on the 
very day of the conquest. | 

R. Amram said to R. Sheshith: The Mishna says that ‘* spits 
and gridirons must be glowed,’’ whereas we learned with regard 
to such utensils that if meat of a sacrifice was roasted on them, 
they must be passed through boiling water before other such 
meat may be roasted on them? Said R. Sheshith: Amram, 
my son, the two cases are incomparable: Here the utensils ab- 


aoe 





ee 


oo 


es ~ eae oe Ee es. —: gi a Sa z - -—-, poe * ‘ oe ten, Cen § S i \ y “~ ee. Fim fe 
See ames I ae ag Gn CO ANID a AOS Ea PRS Ie NG ANS OD AO A SS LS OPTED OLMIS AN Ene 
2 sc z i, Rien > a oz, oe = SER eae See = ee ee OP 2 6 
in ee a b <p . saa Tigi sad ea ah LIEN eg ee ED Sl a Cen ee me NTE gee ea hm PS ins 
> i i a ay a en Pes ae haa - a ae = ot ys a nS ew ai 4 ah re Br re sey aN ~ gat (ro a heat 


ae 
o 


= 
i= ed 








TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 167 


sorb an allowed object, while the vessels of heathens absorb 
forbidden things, and can be, therefore, cleansed only by glow- 
ing. Rabba, however, finds the two cases comparable, because 
as soon as the meat of the sacrifice remains on the spit or grid- 
iron for an interval longer than the one prescribed for eating it, 
its vapor, which is already unallowed, is absorbed by the vessel, 
therefore “‘ boiling ’’ includes also scouring and rinsing. Here- 
upon said Abayi: Such cannot be the case, for the scouring and 
rinsing take place in cold water; while in the case of sacrificed 
meat the vessels are passed through boiling water; it must then 
be understood that both the spit and gridiron of the heathen 
and those used to roast sacrificed meat on must, in order to be 
used again, first be glowed and then passed through hot water. 
As to the Mishna, it mentions only glowing, for the passing 
through boiling water is seen from the Boraitha; in like manner 
does not the latter mention the glowing which is clearly stated 
in the Mishna. Rabha, however, finds this explanation incor- 
rect; for, he says, if this were the reason of the omission, either 
the Mishna or the Boraitha would have to state both methods 
of cleansing; then in the other one, where only one method is 
given, the inference as to the second method, too, could be 
justly made, but as the case is now, the two are not mutually 
supplementary (but rather exclusive). R. Papa, however, rec- 
onciles the two (Mishna and Boraitha) as follows: The utensils 
of the heathens retain all they absorb, as they are not used 
daily; while those on which the sacrificed meat is roasted are 
used continually and are, therefore, not left to cool off and to 
absorb the vapors. Said R. Ashi: The most plausible explana- 
tion is that offered above by R. Sheshith, and as to Rabba’s objec- 
tion there, that the utensils will, when next used, evaporate the 
previously absorbed vapors that have become forbidden, it can 
be met thus: The evaporation is considered merely as odor and 
deserves of no attention. 

For how long must the utensils remain glowing in fire? Said 
R. Mani: Until their surface is peeled off. In cleansing vessels 
by passing them through boiling water, the water must all cover 
them, according to R. Huna. But if the vessel is very big? 
Come and hear: It once happened at R. Akabia’s that a big 
kettle needed cleansing, and he had the kettle brimmed high 
with dough, so that the water poured into it reached above the 
kettle; this water was made to boil and the kettle was cleansed 
therewith. Said Rabba: Who can equal R. Aqabia in wisdom, 


168 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


so as to invent so ingenious a device! for the brim of the kettle 
which was unclean only by reason of the forbidden prepared 
therein and the drops spouting upward, is now cleansed by the 
drops of the boiling water spouting upward upon the brim. 

‘*A knife ts cleansed even by grinding w.’’ KR. Ukba b. 
’Hama said: It means the knife should be ten times stuck into 
the earth in and out. Added R. Hunab. Jehoshua: It must be 
earth that has not been yet cultivated. R. Kahana remarked: 
The knife which is to be thus cleansed must have no hole on its 
surface. There is a Boraitha in support of this: A knife wholly 
smooth on its surface may be cleaned by sticking it inthe ground 
ten times. Said R. Huna b. Jehoshua: But then you can eat 
with it only cold food; and if you want to use it also for warm 
food, you must first pass it through boiling water. As it once 
happened that Mar-Jehudah and Bati b. Tubi were guests at the 
table of King Sabur when a citron was served; the king took a 
piece from it for himself and another piece he tendered to Bati 
b. Tubi; then he took the knife, stuck it in the ground ten 
times, cut off another piece, and gave it to Mar Jehudah. 
Thereupon said Bati b. Tubi: Am I not an Israelite that you 
thus cleanse the knife for him and not forme? And the king 
answered: I am convinced of Mar Jehudah’s profound piety, 
but not of yours. According to others, however, the king’s 
answer was this: Recall what you committed last night. (See 
Rashi’s explanation of this last answer.) 


APPENDIX TO PAGE Go.) 


‘* Preces of wine extract.’’ The Mishna speaks of Hadrianic 
potsherds. What are these potsherds? Said R. Jehudah in the 
name of Samuel: It is meant thereby the potsherds of the King 
Hadrianus ; and R. Dimi on his return from Palestine explained 
the nature of these potsherds as follows: The Romans were 


wont to find a plot of virgin soil, which they would work out © 4 


and plant with grapes; the wine thus obtained they used to 
pour into new white earthern pitchers and leave it therein until 
the pitchers would absorb as much of the wine as they could; 
then the Romans would empty the pitchers of the remaining 
wine and break them into pieces; which potsherds they used to 
take along with them on their military expeditions, and when- 
ever they wanted some wine they would pour water on such 





ee 


ere. a 


° 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 169 


potsherds and these would turn the waterto wine. R. Jehoshua 
b. Levi added with reference to this that our best wine is not so 
good as the third pouring of these potsherds. 

It was asked whether it is allowed to fasten with such pot- 
sherds the legs of a bedstead, since here the potsherds are wanted 
not for the wine they contain but for another purpose? Come 
and hear: R. Eliezar and R. Johanan who were asked on this 
point, expressed contrary opinions; the one allowing the pot- 
sherds for this use and the other forbidding them (which latter 
opinion prevails as the Halakha). 

An objection was raised from the following: Wine poured 
into pitchers or leather bags of a heathen is forbidden to drink, 
any other benefit, however, may be derived from it. And Sim- 
eon b. Guda said to the son of R. Gamaliel, that even his father, 
R. Gamaliel himself, drank at Ako such wine, which story found, 
however, no belief. R. Simeon b. Gamaliel said in the name of 
R. Jehoshua b. Kapusai: The leather bags of a heathen are abso- 
lutely prohibited, so that even a cover for an ass is not allowed 
to make of them. Thus you see that here the leather bags are 
wanted not for the wine they contain, but for making a saddle 
or so for an ass, and yet they are forbidden? But again, how is 
then the Boraitha to be understood? Why then are not all ves- 
sels, earthen as well, prohibited to sell to, or buy from, a heath- 
en? What difference is there between leather bags and earthen 
pitchers? Said Rabha: The following was the cause why leather 
bags were prohibited: it was namely feared that the Israelite 
might mend his own leather bag with the leather of the heathen’s 
bag. 

But how can he who prohibits to derive any benefit from the 
heathen’s leather bag, account for the fact that the selling and 
buying of pitchers was not forbidden? He may say that as re- 
gards pitchers one can easily detect whether there was wine in 
them; hence, if it is found that such contained no wine, one is 
allowed to buy them. But as to Hadrianic potsherds, it is cer- 
tain that they contain wine, hence they are absolutely prohibited. 


END OF TRACT ABODA ZARA. 


ae oe 
hh U4 AG 
ang 


LS: 


Se 








" ae ’ 





oY. 
ee KP 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 


CHAPTER I. 


Misuna J. to V. If, after the court had decreed the transgression of 
one of all the commandments prescribed in the Torah, an individual guided 
by this decree acted erroneously, etc. If upon issuing the decree the court 
becomes aware of its being conceived in error and retracts, and mean- 
while an individual commits a transgression upon their decree, etc. If while 
the court was deciding, one of its members who perceived their error drew 
their attention to it, etc. If causing the whole people to act erroneously, etc. 
If upon the erroneous decree of the court the whole people, or its majority, 
acted, etc., . ; P : : : : F : Y ! 3-12 


CHAPTER II. 


Misuna J. to VII. If an anointed priest has erroneously rendered an 
unlawful decision against himself and acted accordingly by mistake, etc. 
If he (the said priest) both decided and acted for himself, etc. The court 
is not liable unless the issued decree concerns Korath and sin-offering 
respectively. It is also not liable for a decree concerning a command or 
a prohibition with regard to (polluting) the sanctuary. There is no liability 
when the decree concerns an adjuring challenge to testify, a hastily made 
vow, etc. Concerning a ruler and the high priest’s offerings for their 
Co : 7 : ; ‘ ; . ; ; ; y 13-18 | 


CHAPTER III. 


Misuna J. to VII. An anointed priest who has sinned and was removed 
from his office, etc. If they were appointed to their respective positions 
after they had sinned, etc. Who is the anointed priest? He who was con- 
secrated to priesthood by the holy ointment, etc. The high priest rends his 
garment from below; the common priest, from the top, etc. What is more 
common precedes the less common. The man has the preference over the 
woman, etc. In captivity his master has the preference over his father. His 
mother, however, has the preference over all. The following precede one 

lll 


be SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. _ 


another in order of arrangement, etc. Why does the dog know his master, 
and the cat does not? Why do all reign over the mice? Five objects are 
conducive to one’s forgetting his studies, etc. Five are apt to strengthen 
one’s memory, etc. The following ten objects are cumbrous to one’s studies, 
etc. When the prince enters, all the people present in college rise to their 
feet, without again taking their seats until he tells them to do so. When 
the chief justice enters, the people occupying two rows of seats facing 
the entrance rise, etc. The legend which happened to Raban Simon b. 
Gamaliel with R. Mair and R. Nathan. How the latter were removed from 
the college. An erudite scholar and a dialectician, who has the preference? 
How Abaye rose to be the chief of the College of Sura, . ; ‘ 18-29 








TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 





CHAPTER I. 

MISHNA J.: If, after the court had decreed the transgres- 
sion of one of all the commandments prescribed in the Torah, 
an individual guided by this decree acted erroneously, either 
simultaneously with the judges, or after they had acted, or 
altogether independently, the court not having acted yet at all, 
he is free, for he followed the decree of the court. If, however, 
the transgressor was one of the members of the court and knew 
the decree to be erroneous, or a scholar already qualified to 
himself decide, he is in any of the aforementioned conditions 
liable (to bring a sin offering), as he has not based his trans- 
gression upon the decree of the court. This is the rule: Who- 
ever relies upon his own judgment is liable, but whoever follows 
the decision of the court is free. 

GEMARA: Samuel said: The court is not liable unless its 
decree read thus: You are allowed to practise so and so. R. 
Dimi of Nahardea, however, said: The phrase “ to practice ”’ is 
not necessary, the statement “you are allowed” being suffi- 
cient ; which view was, however, objected to by Abaye, R. Aba, 
and Rabima from Mishnaioth that oppose it and it was accord- 
ingly overthrown without any further discussions. 

“An individual . . . acted erroneously,” etc. Said Rabha: 
This is so only when he acted according to the decree of the 
court, but if he ate, e. g., illegal fat in the belief that it was 
legal, he is liable. This view of the case so certain to Rabha 
was doubtful to Rami b. Hama, as he propounded the same 
question and Rabha answered it from the expression “ guided 
by this decree”’ (the Gemara, however, says) that in this case 
Rabh R. Johanan differ, viz.: in case the court has decreed that 
this fat is allowed to use and has consumed illegal fat thinking 
it legal, according to the former he is free, and according 
to the latter he is liable. And R. Papa explained R. Johanan’s 


3 


4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


reason to be that the transgressor is still considered as having 
acted in accordance with the decree, as if the court became 
aware that it has erred it would retract and so would the trans- 
gressor abstain from eating, hence R. Johanan’s decision. And 
Rabha said: Rabh admits that the transgressor in question does 
not complete the majority, because it reads “ erroneously,” 
which means that all must err with regard to the same thing but 
not to different things. 3 

“Either simultaneously with the judges,” etc. This is stated 
in order to teach that he is free, not only when he acted simul- 
taneously with, but also when after, the judges had acted. 

“A scholar qualified,” etc. To what purpose are both the 


conditions stated? Rabha: To teach that even such a person | 


who is learned but who lacks discriminating power, or vice 
versa, 1s also culpable. Said Abaye to him: But from the state- 
ment of the Mishna, “ who is already qualified to decide,” ob- 
viously follows that he is both learned and strong is discrimina- 
tion? Answered Rabha: I mean to say that if the Mishna 
stated not the last phrase, it could be said that in order to make 
him liable he must possess the two qualifications, hence the 
Mishna states it to indicate that its first phrase refers to him 
who possesses even but one qualification. 

Again: “ Qualified himself to decide,’ etc. Who is meant 
thereby? Said Rabha, such, e.g., as Simeon b. Azai and Simeon 
b. Zoma.. Said Abaye to him: An act of such great men may 
be considered intentional; we must, therefore, say that such a 
case can take place only if he was aware that such is prohibited, 
but he committed an error by thinking that it is meritorious to 
follow the decree of sages even when they err. 

“This is the rule,” etc. What does this sentence intend to 
add? Him who does not care at all to guide himself by the 
decision of the court. Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: 
The whole Mishna is in accordance with R. Jehudah (the Jana), 
but according to the sages one is liable for acting upon the 
decree of the court as his guidance. Which R. Jehudah is this? 
From the following Boraitha. It reads [Lev. iv. 27]: “If any 
person... sin through ignorance, by his doing,” where there 
are three extensions, to teach that he is liable by Jus doing it 
himself, but if by doing it upon the decree of the court, he is 
free. And which sages are there spoken of? From Torath 
Kohanim, section i., Leviticus. But let us see, our Mishna as 
well as that of Torath Kohanim is each taught anonymously ; 





Se ee 











TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 5 


whence, then, do we know that our Mishna is in accordance 
with R. Jehudah and the Boraitha with the rabbis, may be the 
converse is the case? Nay, as of no other have you heard to 
consider such extensions than of R. Jehudah, who said in the 
following Boraitha: it reads [ibid. vi. 2]: “ This is the law of 
the burnt-offering,” where there are three extensions. How- 
ever, the Mishna can not be in accordance with R. Jehudah, for 
the reason that according to him the congregation is liable to 
bring a bullock in case its majority have sinned erroneously, 
while according to the sages the court must bring it. Therefore, 
our Mishna must be interpreted to mean that the court has 
decreed and only the minority has acted thereupon, and the 
point of their difference is that according to one an individual 
acting on the basis of the court’s decree is free, while according 
to the other he is liable. R. Papa, however, said: All agree that 
in such a case the transgressor is free, and their point of 
difference is that one holds: The court is completing the 
majority of the congregation, while the other does not 
hold so. 

R. Assi said: In a decision for dricGsing it is not the 
majority of the congregation but that of all the population that 
must be considered, as [I Kings vili, 65], ‘“ And Solomon held 
at that time the feast, and all Israel with him, a great assembly, 
from the entrance of Chamath unto the river of Egypt, before 
the Lord our God, seven days and seven days, even fourteen 
days,’ now, as it is written, “ and all Israel with him,” what for, 
then, yet the description, “ great assembly from the entrance of 
Chamath unto the river of Egypt”? To teach that in such a 
decision (as to abolish the day of atonement) the population of 
the whole land is considered the assembly. 

R. Jonathan said: If there were one hundred assembled to 
decide some point, there is no liability (attached to the trans- 
gression of the decision) unless the decree was made unan- 
smously, as it reads [ Lev. iv. 13]: “ And if the whole congrega- 
tion of Israel sin,’ which means that all sin by error, and that 
the decision be brought about unanimously. Said R. Huna b. 
R. Ashia: It seems to be so, since with regard to all the laws of 
the Torah there is a tradition that the majority is equivalent to 
the whole, and here it reads, “ the whole congregation,” i.¢., it 
must be the whole of the body, so that if there were one hundred 
their decision must be unanimous. 

An objection was raised from our Mishna which states that 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


* 


he is liable if ‘he has not based his transgression upon the 
decree of the court,’’ whence it follows by implication that if 
another one (not so qualified) acted thus he would be free; why 
so, since in this the decree was no longer unanimous (as one of 
the members deviates)? It means here that this one member 
has also nodded his head affirmatively (while the vote was 
taken). | 

R. Mesharshia objected from the following: Our masters 
have relied upon R. Simeon b. Gamaliel and R. Elazar b. Zadok, 
who have decided that no decree must be promulgated unless 
the majority of the congregation is able to comply with it; and 
R, Ada b. Aba said: Where is there an allusion thereto in the 
Scripture? [ Mal. iii. 9]: “ With curse are ye cursed, and yet me 
do ye rob, O ye entire nation.”” Now, here is written the entire 
nation and nevertheless the majority is equivalent to the whole; 
hence, R. Jonathan’s view is wholly overthrown, and the ex- 
pression in the Scripture (cited above), “the whole congrega- 
tion’ means: if the whole is able to comply with the decree it is 
considered, but not otherwise. 

MISHNA J/,: If upon issuing the decree the court becomes 
aware of its being conceived in error and retracts, and mean- 
while an individual commits a transgression upon that decree 
either before or after the court succeeded to bring its atoning 
offering, he is freeaccordingto R. Simeon, while R. Elazar classes 
it among the doubtful cases. In what sense is it doubtful? He 
may have stayed at his home, then he is liable; but if he was in 
the sea countries he is free. Said R. Aqiba: I agree that in the 
latter case he is rather free than liable. Whereupon Ben Azai 
asked: What difference is there between the two cases? It con- 
sists in that he who stays at home can possibly hear (of the 
retraction), while to the other one this is impossible. 

If the court decided to annihilate a law in its very essence, 
by saying, e.g., that there is not in the Torah the law of menses, 
of Sabbath, of idolatry, the members of the court are free (from 
an offering); but if it decided to abolish only one part of a 
law retaining in force the other part, they are liable. How so? 
If it decided, e.g., that, though the law of menses is in the Torah, 
a man who has sexual relations with a woman in her watching 
days is free; or, that he who transports something from private 
to public grounds is free though the law of Sabbath is in the 
Torah; or, that the Torah truly forbids idol worship, yet he 
who bows to the idol is free—the court is liable, for it reads 





TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 7 


(Lev. iv. 13): “ And the thing be hidden,” i.e., something, but 
not the whole essence. 

GEMARA: Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: R. 
Simeon used to say that if one acted upon a decision issued by 
the majority of the congregation, he is free; because a decision 
discriminates between intentional and unintentional acting, and 
here the transgressor, guided in his act by the decision, sins un- 
intentionally (though he acts intentionally), and according to 
Rabh R. Simeon is consistent with his own theory elsewhere 
that the bullock for the forgetting by the congregation, and the 
he-goat for idolatry, are to be bronent from the treasury of 
the temple. 

There is a Boraitha. In the case mentioned in the Mishna, 
R. Mair makes him liable, and R. Simeon holds him free, while 
R. Elazar finds this case to be doubtful; and in the name of 
Symachos such was said to be a pending case. Said R. Johanan: 
They differ concerning a pending-offering. Said R. Zera: R. 
Elazar’s decision is like that regarding the case where one con- 
sumes fat doubtful whether it is legal or illegal, and thereafter 
he became aware that it was doubtful, he is to bring a pending 
offering; and not only according to him who obliges the con- 
gregation to bring such an offering, as such an act is known to 
every one, hence, if the transgressor has acted after the congre- 
gation brought its atoning offering, in which case it cannot 
possibly be said that he in his act guided himself by the court’s 
decree,—but even according to him who obliges the court to 
such an offering, which may be not known to everybody, the 
transgressor is also liable, since he could find this out upon in- 
vestigating. 

R. Jose b. Abin, according to others b. Zebida, likens Sy- 
machos’ decision to that regarding the case where one brings 
his atoning offering at twilight, which makes the atonement 
doubtful, since if it was yet day he is atoned, but if night he is 
not, and none the less he is not obliged to bring another offer- 
ing. 

“Ben Azai asked,” etc. Is not Ben Azai right? The differ- 
ence between them is the case when the transgressor has just 
set out on his journey; according to Ben Azai he is liable, 
while according to R. Agiba he is free as soon as he starts on 
his way. 

“Tf the court decided to annihilate,” etc. Said R. Jehudah, in 
the name of Samuel: The court is not liable unless it has decided 


8 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


upon a point which the Sadducees do not admit, but where they 
do, it is not considered an error, since even a child knows such 
a point, and the court is accordingly free. 

MISHNA III.: If while the court was deciding, one of its 
members who perceived their error drew their attention to it, 
or if the presiding judge was absent, or one of them was a 
proselyte, a bastard, a nation, or an aged man who had no 
children, they are free; on the ground of the following analogy 
[Lev. iv. 3]: the expression congregation is used and [Numb. 
Xxxv. 24] the same expression, it is inferred thus: just as there 
the expression means a congregational meeting whose members 
are singly and. severally qualified to decide law questions, in 
the latter case it means the same. 

GEMARA: “ The presiding judge,’ etc. Whence is this 
deduced? Said R. Sheshith: It is likewise found in a Boraitha 
of the disciples of R. Ismael, viz.: Why was it said that if the 
court decides on a point which the Sadducees admit, it is free? 
Because this is not considered an error but a fact of ignorance, 
as the members of the court ought to have learned; the same is 
the case here where the presiding justice was absent, some 
one of the members ought to substitute him, and as there was 
none competent to do so they are ignorants who ought to 
learn. 

“The expression congregation,’ etc. And whence do we 
know that there they are fit to decide questions? Said R. 
Na’hman b. Itz’hak: It reads [Ex. xvili. 22]: “ With thee,” 
i.e., such as are equal to you. 

MISHNA JV.: If the court decided in error, causing the 
whole people to act erroneously, a bullock is to be offered; but 
if the court decided intentionally (against the law) and the 
people acted in error, a sheep or goat is to be sacrificed (by 
each individual transgressor). If, however, the reverse was the 
case, all are free. 

GEMARA: It states: If the court decided unintentionally 
and the people acted intentionally, they are all free, whence it 
follows by implication that if the unintentional act was equal — 
to an intentional one, 7.e., done independently of the court’s 
decree, one is liable; and what case would illustrate this? E£.g., 
the court decided that fat is legal and one has consumed such 
in the belief that it is legal, whence could be solved the question 
propounded above by Rami b. Hama? Nay, it may be said 
that because in the first part it speaks of an intentional decision 





TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 9 


and of subsequent unintentional act, it expresses in the last part 
the reverse. 

MISHNA V.: If upon the erroneous decree of the court 
the whole people, or its majority, acted, a bullock is to be 
brought; or, in case the decree referred to idol worship, a bul- 
lock and a he-goat; so holds R. Mair, while R. Jehudah says: 
Twelve tribes bring 12 bullocks, and in the case of idol worship 
yet 12 he-goats in addition. R. Simeon says: 13 bullocks in the 
one and 13 bullocks plus 13 he-goats in the other case respect- 
ively, thus making one bullock with one he-goat to each tribe, 
and one such pair for the court. If but seven tribes or the 
majority (of the people) acted upon the decree, the court 
members must bring a bullock, and in case of idolatry also a 
he-goat, so holds R. Mair, while according to R. Jehudah, the 
7 tribes that sinned should bring 7 bullocks, and the innocent 
remaining tribes also sacrifice one bullock for the sinners. R. 
Simeon maintains his foregoing view, reducing the number of 
the sacrifices from 13 to 8. 

If a tribal court caused by its erroneous decision the tribe 
to act accordingly, only this tribe is liable, while all the others 
are free, so holds R. Jehudah; the sages, however, maintain that 
only those are liable who act on the decree of the supreme 
court, for it reads [Lev. iv. 13]: “If the whole congregation 
of Israel sin through ignorance,” hence not that of a single 
tribe. | 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: If the court was aware that 
its decision was erroneous, lest one say that it is liable, it reads 
[ Lev. iv. 14]: “ The sin becometh known,” but not the sinner, 
“through which they have sinned,” 1.¢., if there were two tribes 
they bring two bullocks; three, three bullocks, and so forth. 
But perhaps it means: If two individuals have sinned, they 
must bring two bullocks, and if three, three, and so on? To 
this it reads: “ The congregation shall offer,” 1.e., each congre- 
gation, as well as the congregation at large, is liable; how so? - 
If there were two tribes, they bring two, and if seven tribes, 
they bring seven, and all other tribes who have not sinned 
should also each of them bring a bullock, since, though they 
have not sinned, they must conjoin themselves to the sinning 
tribes, as for this purpose it reads “ the congregation,”’ to make 
liable each of them. So R. Jehudah. R. Simeon, however, 
said: The seven tribes that have sinned bring seven, and the 
court brings one bullock in addition, for, as here congregation 


10 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


is used and there the same term, hence, just as there the court 
qwith the congregation is meant, the same is the case here. R. 
Mair, however, said: If the seven tribes have sinned, the court 
brings only one bullock, and all are free for the same reason; 
as congregation mentioned above means only the court, the 
same is the case here. And R. Simeon b. Elazar said, in the 
name of R. Mair: If six tribes have sinned, and they formed 
the majority of all Israel, or seven tribes, though not forming 
the majority of Israel, only one bullock must be brought. 

“Tf a tribal court,’ etc. The school-men propounded a 
question: If one tribe has sinned, guided by the decree of the 
supreme court, may the other tribes conjoin with it to bring 
bullocks or not? Shall we assume that only to seven tribes con- 
joining takes place, but not to one, which does not form 
majority, or since it acted upon the decree of the court there 
is no difference whether one or seven? Come and hear: R. 
Jehudah said: If one tribe has acted in accordance with its 
court, it alone is liable, but if it acted according to the decision of 
the supreme court, all the other tribes are also liable. Said R. 
Ashi: ItI seems to be so also from our Mishna, which states, 
“only this tribe is liable, while all the others are free’; to what 
purpose does it add, “‘ while all the others,” etc., after it states 
“only this tribe,” etc? To teach us, thus: Only in the case of its 
own court, but if it is a case of the supreme court, all the others 
are aiso liable. 

But let us see, whence do both R. Jehudah and R. Simeon 
deduce that one tribe is also called Kahal, 1.e., congregation (of 
all Israel)? From [II Chron. xx. 5]: “And Jehoshaphat 
stood forward in the Kahal of Judah and Jerusalem.” R. A’ha 
b. Jacob opposed: Perhaps there it was Kahal, because the 
tribe Benjamin, too, was there, hence more than one tribe? 
Therefore, says he, it is deduced from [Gen. xlviii. 4]: “ And 
I will make of thee a Kahal of people’’; now, at that time Ben- 
jamin was born, and you infer from here that so said the 
Merciful One to Jacob: one Kahal more is born to you. Said 
Shba to R. Kahana: But perhaps the Merciful meant, now as 
Benjamin is born, and you have twelve tribes you are called a 
Kahal? And he answered: Do you mean to say that eleven 
tribes are not called Kahal? 

The rabbis taught: If one member of the congregation dies, 
the liability does not cease, but if one member of the court dies, 
it does cease. According to what Tana is this Said R. ’Hisda, 











TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). nee 


in the name of R. Zera, in the name of R. Jeremiah, quoting 
Rabh: It is in accordance with R. Mair, who said that the court 
and not the congregation brings the offering; hence, if a 
member of the ‘court dies, it means one of the partners to the 
sin-offering died, and in such a case the sin- -offering can not 
be brought. 

R. Joseph opposed : Why. not say on the same reasoning 
lines that it is in accordance with R. Simeon, who says that the 
court with the congregation must bring’ the offering? Said 
Abaye to him: We have heard R. Simeon saying elsewhere that 
a sin-offering of partners is not put to death: If the bullock and 
he-goat of the day of atonement upon being lost were sub- 
stituted by others, and thereafter the first were found, they all 
are put to death (because none of them is fit for the altar); so 
R. Jehudah. R. Elazar and R. Simeon, however, maintain that 
they must be kept until they become blemished, as there is a 
rule that a sin-offering of a congregation is not put to death. 
Rejoined R. Joseph: You speak of priests, an entirely different 
case, as they are themselves called Kahal [ Lev. xvi. 33]: “‘ For 
all the priests and for all the people of the Kahal.” Answered 
Abaye: According to this they ought to bring a bullock for an 
erroneous decision by their own court; and should you say 
that such is the case, then there will be more than twelve 
tribes! Thereupon said R. A’ha b. Jacob that the tribe of Levi 
is not called Kahal at all, as from the above cited verse [Gen.], 
it is to be understood that they who inherited landed property 
in Jerusalem are called a tribe, but not the Levites, who had no 
such inheritance. But if so there are fewer than twelve tribes? 
Said Abaye: It reads there [ibid.] that Ephraim and Menashah 
(the two sons of Joseph) are considered as Rubin and Simion: 
1.€., as two tribes. Said Rabha: Does it not read [ibid., ibid. 
6]: “ After the name of their brothers shall they be called”? 
The answer is: They are called after the brothers’ name only 
in respect of inheritance, but not in other respects. But are 
they not all divided into flag-division? This was only to honor 
the flags, as the division of the inheritance took place in accord- 
ance with the flag-divisions. But are they not divided accord- 
ing to their respective princes? This also was done to honor 
the princes; as we have learned in the following Boraitha: 
Solomon has celebrated seven days the dedication of the 
temple; why did Moses celebrate twelve days the tabernacle? 
To honor the princes. 


CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA J/.: If an anointed priest has erroneously rendered 
an unlawful decision against himself and acted accordingly by 
mistake, he must sacrifice a bullock. But if the decision was con- 
ceived in error and the act performed intentionally or vice versa, 
he is free; for the decision of an anointed priest with regard to 
himself is equivalent to a decision of the court for the people. 

GEMARA: “ Erroneously . . . acted accordingly by mistake.” 
Is this not self-evident? Said Ahaye: It speaks of a case where 
he forgot the reason of his decision, and when he acted he said 
that he acts in accordance with the decision, lest one say that in 
such a case it is considered an intentional act, since if he remem- 
bered the reason of the decision he would not act, it comes to 
teach that it is not so. 

“ But of the decision . . . in error and the act performed in- 
tentionally,” etc. Whence is this deduced ? From what the rabbis 
taught: it reads [Lev. iv., 3] “to bring guiltiness on the people,” 
which seems superfluous in this connection, but comes to teach 
that he [the priest] is equal to the congregation; a fact that 
could be inferred without a special verse, z.e. the congregation is 
exempt from the laws governing the individual, and so is the 
anointed priest ; hence, as the congregation is liable but for for- 
getting and for acting erroneously, the same should be with the 
anointed priest; or, on the other hand, a prince is exempt from 
the laws of an individual, and so is an anointed priest: as the 
former is liable for erroneous acting without forgetting, the same 
should be with the latter; it thus remains to see to whom is he 
[the priest] equal as regards his offering : the congregation brings 
a bullock, but not a pending trespass offering, and the same does 
the anointed priest bring; hence, as the congregation is liable 
but for forgetting and erroneous acting, so also is the anointed 
priest. But why not say: Asin case one acts in accordance with 
the congregation’s decree, he is liable, the same should be if one 
acts according to the decision of the anointed priest? It reads 
[ibid.]: ‘“ For Azs sin, and not for the sin of another.’’ And whence 


is it deduced that the anointed priest does not bring a pending 
12 | 





ane =" ‘ ' : is 
fs i a — ee ee ee ee 


ee ee ee ee ee ye ae 


if io aa SR eT at. epee sc 
ee ae eT a ee eee ee ee a 














TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS), 13 


trespass offering? From [ibid. v., 18] “ concerning his sin of. 
ignorance,” which signifies: only for him whose sin and erroneous 
act are considered equal (z.e. where both decision and acting were 
performed in error), exclude the anointed priest, who is liable but 
for forgetting and for erroneous acting. 

MISHNA JZ: If he (the said priest) both decided and acted 
for himself, he brings his atoning sacrifice separately. If, how- 
ever, he both decided and acted jointly with the congregation, 
he brings with latter a joint atoning sacrifice. Like the court, 
that is liable only when it effects a decision partly annulling 
partly confirming the law, so also the anointed priest, and even 
if the law in question be one regarding idol worship. | 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? from what the rabbis 
taught: if he has both decided and acted together with the con- 
gregation, lest one say he is to bring a bullock separately, we 
infer from the case of a prince: asa prince is exempt from the 
laws governing an individual and so is the anointed priest, too, 
the same is the case here, viz.: as the prince is to bring a sepa- 
rate offering when he sins separately, but when he sins with the 
congregation he is atoned for by its offering, the same is the case 
with the anointed priest; on the other hand, a prince is atoned 
for together with the congregation on the day of atonement, 
which is not the case with the anointed priest, and as he (priest) 
needs a separate offering on the day of atonement, the same 
should be the case if he has sinned together with the congrega- 
tion ;—against this the afore-cited verse [Lev. iv. 3], which signi- 
fies that if he sins separately, he brings a seperate offering, and 
if he sins with the congregation he need not bring a separate 
offering. 

But let us see the nature of the case: if he was the presiding 
justice, then only Ais decision must be taken into consideration, 
as the opinion of the rest counts for nothing, and it is obvious 
that the atonements must be separate; and if he was not presid- 
ing, why should he be atoned for separately when zs opinion in 
this case does not count? Said R. Papa: it means that he was 
equal to the others. 

Abaye was about to say that “he sinned separately ” means: 
in a different place; but Rabha said to him: does the difference 
in place cause the separation? it may be even in one and the 
same place but concerning different prohibitions, and then it is 
considered separate sinning. 

“ Partly annulling,’ etc. Whence is this deduced? From 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


what was said in the Chapter I: by forgetting something and not 
the whole, and whence is it deduced that the same is the case 
with the anointed priest? from what is discussed above: ‘To 
bring guiltiness on the people.” Finally, whence is deduced that 
the same is the case concerning idolatry? From what the rabbis 
taught: lest one say that because concerning idolatry there is a 
special verse, it should hence be treated differently,—there is an 
analogy of expression: “From the eyes,” found in both cases 
(idolatry and other sins) to teach that they are equal in all re- 
spects. 

MISHNA /J///.: The conditions determining the liability of 
both the courts and the anointed priest are: Their ignorance of 
the thing during the rendering of the decision, and the subsequent 
erroneous acting. The same conditions hold in decisions regard- 
ing idol worship. 
| GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? From what the rabbis 

taught: it reads [Lev. iv. 13] ‘Through ignorance, and a thing 
be hidden,’’ whence we see that both ignorance and forgetting 
are necessary. The deduction of the case of the anointed priest 
is again as above. As to idolatry, lest one say: it was separately 
taught, hence it requires different treatment, comes the analogy — 
of expression to teach as above. Thus we see that it does not 
teach concerning the anointed priest regarding idolatry ; whence 
it may be said that our Mishna is in accordance with Rabbi of 
the following Boraitha: If the anointed priest has sinned in a case 
of idolatry, according to Rabbi, he is liable for erroneous acting, 
and, according to the rabbis, for forgetting; all, however, agree 
that his offering must be a she-goat and that he is not under the 
category of those who bring a pending trespass offering, and 
Rabbi’s reason is from [Num. xv. 28]: “ And the priest shall make 
an atonement for the person that hath erred”’; “for the person”’ 
means the anointed priest ; ‘“‘that hath erred’’ means the prince; 
“in his sinning through ignorance’’ means according to Rabbi 
that the sinning of each of the two must be through ignorance, 
while according to the rabbis this part applies only to him who 
sins through ignorance, exclude the anointed priest who sins 


through forgetting ; and whence do they deduce that he like any | | 4 


other individual must bring a she-goat? From the above-cited 
verse [ibid., ibid. 27]: “ And if azy person sin,” 2.¢., any one: com- 
mon, priest, prince, etc. 

And whence is it deduced that he does not bring a pending 
trespass-offering? From [ibid. v. 18] “for his ignorance,” which | 


* 





TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 15 


can not mean the priest in question who sins by forgetting. On 
the other hand, according to the rabbis, it intends to exclude the 
anointed who sins in any case whatsoever not by erroneous acting 
alone, but when such is accompanied by forgetting. 

MISHNA /V.: The court is not liable unless the issued 
decree concerns a command the intentional and unintentional 
violation of which entail Korath and sin-offering respectively ; 
the same is the case with the anointed priest. The same refers 
to the case of idol worship. : 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? As stated in the fol- 
lowing Boraitha: Rabbi said: It reads [Levi. v. 5]: “Alehu” 
[ibid. xviii. 18]: “ Olehu,” as there it is a case of Korath and a 
sin-offering, the same is the case here. And the deduction that 
the same applies to the anointed priest is made as above. As to 
a prince, it is inferred from the analogy of expression [ibid. iv. 
22]: “ Prohibitions” (Zztzvoth), found also [ibid. ibid. 13] con- 
cerning the congregation; now, as the latter treats of things the 
transgression of which is, if intentional under Korath, and if un- 
intentional under sin-offering, the same is the case with a prince; 
while concerning a common individual it reads [ib. ibid. 27]: “If 
any person” to infer this last from the previous one. 

“The same refers to the case of tdol worship.” Whence is this 
deduced? From what the rabbis taught: because idolatry is 
mentioned specially, hence it should be treated differently, so 
that one be culpable even when the sin is not under the category 
of Korath, etc., therefore the analogy of expression “from his 
eyes,’ as there it is under the category of Korath, so also here. 

But this is concerning the congregation; whence do we know 
this with regard to the anointed priest, prince, individual? From 
[ibid. ib. 27]: “(Amy person,” i.e., any: be he priest, prince, etc. 
But again, all this is correct according to him who holds the an- 
logy of expression Olehu ; but to the rabbis who do not hold so, 
whence is this deduced? From what R. Jehoshua b. Levi taught 
to his son [Num. xv. 29, 30]: “One law shall be for you, for 
him that acteth through ignorance. But the person that doth 
aught with a high hand,” etc., this compares all the laws of the 
Torah to idolatry : as latter is under both Korath and sin-offering, 
so also all other cases of the same category. But from here you 
infer only an individual, a ruler, and an anointed priest ; whence 
do we know that the same is the case with the congregation ?, 
Infer the first verse [13] from the last [27]. We thus see that 
according to all, the cited verses [Num. xv. 29, 30] speak of idol- 


16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


atry, how is it so understood? Said Rabha, according to others, 
R. Jehoshua b. Levi; according to still others, Khdi: it reads 
[ibid. ib. 22]: “and do not observe all these commandments”’; 
now, a negative commandment that is in importance equal to a// 
other negatives is, you must say, idolatry. 

The disciples of Rabbi infer this from the same verse [22 and 
23] “which the Lord hath spoken unto Moses, all that the 
Lord hath commanded you by the hand of Moses,” and a com- 
mandment said, in the words of the Holy One, blessed be He, 
and commanded again by the hand of Moses is of idolatry; as 
the disciples of R. Ismael taught that the commandment “I am 
the Lord; thou. shalt have no other gods before me,” we have 
heard from the Almighty Himself; and thereafter it was com- 
manded through Moses in many other places. 

MISHNA V.: The court is not liable for a decree concerning 
a command or a prohibition with regard to (polluting) the sanc- 
tuary. Nor must one bring a pending offering for a doubtful 
violation of the said command or prohibition. But in case of 
erroneous teaching and of doubt, each regarding a command or 
prohibition with reference to a woman in her menses, a bullock 
and a pending offering are required respectively. The command 
in the case is: Keep away from a woman in her menses. The 
prohibition is: Have no sexual intercourse with her. 

GEMARA: Whence is it deduced that the congregation 
is not liable to any offering, while the individual is not liable to 
a pending offering either? Said R. Itz’hak b. R. Dimi, it reads 
[Lev. iv. 27]: “and become guilty ” concerning a sin and pending 
offering, and also [ibid., ibid. 13]: “‘and they become guilty,” 
which signifies: as the guiltiness of an individual is attended 
with a sin offering established for all, so also the guiltiness of the 
congregation is attended with such an offering; and as the latter’s 
offering is an established one, so also the pending offering must 
be brought only for the doubt about a transgression to which an 
established offering applies, but not about that of the sanctuary 
to which a rich and poor offering applies. 

MISHNA VZ.: There is no liability when the decree con- 
cerns an adjuring challenge to testify, a hastily made vow, the 
defilement of the temple and its holy objects; the same is the 
case with the ruler, so R. Jose the Galilean. R.Agqiba, however, 
says: The ruler is liable in all these cases but the first one, for 
the king can neither judge nor be judged, neither testify for 
others nor have others testify for him. 





TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 17 


GEMARA: Said Ula: What is the reason of R. Jose the 
Galilean? [Lev. v. 5] “ And it shall be, if he have incurred guilt 
by any one of these [things], that he shall confess that concerning 
which he hath sinned,” which speaks of all that are treated of in 
the Mishna, and which signifies that he who may be guilty for 
one of these may be guilty also for the others, but who is not 
guilty for one of these is not so for the others either. But per- 
haps the verse means that if he incur guilt even for one of these? 
Therefore it must be said that the reason of R. Jose the Galilean 
is the following Boraitha: R. Jeremian used to say: It reads 
[ibid., ibid. 7], “ And if his means be not sufficient,” and then 
[ibid., ibid. 11], “ If he can not afford.”’ All this speaks of persons 
that can be classed as poor and rich, which is not the case with 
either priest or ruler, as concerning the latter it reads [ibid., ibid. 
22| ‘of the Lord his God,” which signifies him who has for his 
superior only his God; and concerning the former it reads [ibid. 
xxi. 10]: “And the priest that is highest among his brethren,” 
meaning that he is highest in beauty, in might, in wisdom and in 
wealth; and the anonymous teachers say: whence is it deduced 
that if he [priest] is not rich his people should make him the 
richest: from same verse: “that is highest among his brethren,” 
signifying that his brethren make him highest. 

MISHNA V/Z/Z.: As regards all commandments of the Torah, 
whose intentional and unintentional violations entail respectively 
Korath and sin offering, a private individual brings offers (in the 
latter case) a (female) sheep or goat, the ruler, a he-goat; the 
high priest or the supreme court, a bullock. In matters of idol 
worship the private individual, ruler and priest bring a she-goat, 
while the court (that has erroneously decided) a bullock and a he- 
goat, former as burnt offering, latter as asin offering. The pend- 
ding offering (for a doubtful malfeasance) is imposed upon the ruler 
and private persons, the anointed priest and the court are free 
therefrom. The trespass offering (for a sure misdeed) is imposed 
besides the first two also upon the high priest, while the court is 
exempt therefrom. For challenging by oath to testify, for a hast- 
ily made vow, for defiling the temple and the holy objects thereof, 
the erroneously decreeing court is free; while private indi- 
viduals, the ruler, the high priest are liable; with the exception, 
however, that the last one is according to R. Simeon not liable 
in the said case of defilement. And what is the sacrifice they 
bring? A poor and rich offering. R. Eliezar says: The ruler 
brings (for temple defilement) a he-goat. 


18 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. — 


GEMARA: There isa Boraitha: R. Simeon laid down this 
rule: In whatever an individual is liable to a pending offering, the 
ruler is equal to him, while the anointed priest and the court are 
free; on the other hand, in whatever a trespass offering applies 
the ruler and the anointed priest are equal, while the court is 
free, viz.: for a witness-oath, an uttered oath and the defilement | 
of the sanctuary and its holy objects the ruler and the anointed 
are liable, and the court is free; however, the ruler is not liable 
for a witness-oath and the anointed for the defilement of the 
sanctuary, etc.; and in an act where a rich and poor offering 
applies the ruler is equal, while the anointed and the court are 
free. 4 : . 

Now, is not the Boraitha involved in a contradiction concern- 
ing the liability of the ruler and the priest? Said R. Huna b. R. 
Jehoshua: this presents no difficulty; as one Tana speaks of 
poverty, while the other, of extreme poverty, and R. Simeon 
holds with R. Agiga concerning extreme poverty when the ruler 
is free from that offering, but differs with him concerning poverty, 
in which case he holds the ruler, too, liable. 





CHAPTER III. 


MISHNA /.: An anointed priest who has sinned and there- 
after was removed from his office, and a ruler who has sinned 
and was removed from his dignity, the former brings a bullock 
and the latter a he-goat. However, if both have sinned after 
they were removed from their offices, the priest in question 
brings a bullock and the ex-ruler is considered as a common 
man. : 

GEMARA: To what purpose is it needed for the Mishna to | 
state that when he has sinned before the removal from his office 
he is to bring a bullock, as the same is the case even if he did 
so after the removal? It was necessary because of the law that 
a ruler after the removal of his dignity is considered common. 

Whence is this deduced? From what the rabbis taught 
[Lev. iv. 3]: ‘‘ Shall he bring near for zs sin,’’ which signifies 
that he has to bring an offering for his previous sin. While 
concerning a ruler it reads [ibid. 22]: “‘ If a ruler should sin,”’ 
which signifies that if he has sinned while he is still a ruler, but 
not when he becomes common. , 

MISHNA /J//.: If they were appointed to their respective 
positions after they had sinned, they are treated as private per- 
sons. R. Simeon, however, says: If they become cognizant of 
their malfeasance before their appointment, they are liable; but 
if after, they are free. What is meant by ruler? A king, for it 
is stated [Lev. iv. 22]: ‘‘ If a prince sins and performs one of 
the commandments of the Lord his God,’’ etc.; hence, a prince 
who has above him no one but the Lord his God. 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? From what the rabbis 
taught [ibid., ibid. 3]: ‘‘ If the anointed priest do sin to bring 
guiltiness,’’ which excludes the transgressions he had committed 
before he was anointed. This could be deduced by a /fortzorz 
argument, thus: A ruler who is liable to a sin-offering for an 
erroneous act is not liable for his acts before he became a ruler. 
The anointed who is liable for forgetting an erroneous act, so 
much the less should he be liable for his previous acts. And 
should you say that with a ruler it is different, as he is not liable 

1g 


20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


after his removal from office, to a sin-offering for his sin while 
he was still a ruler, which is not the case with the anointed? To 
this it reads in the above-cited verse “‘ the anointed has sinned,’’ 
which signifies only for that sin which he committed while he 
was already in his office. On the other hand, on a fortiori argu- 
ment could be used to make a ruler liable for his sin before he 
ascended the throne, if not for the verse cited above concerning 
him. 

The rabbis taught: ‘* A ruler who will sin,’’ lest one say that 
such is the heavenly decree that he shall sin, to this it reads, 
*‘7f the anointed will sin,’’ which means if it will happen so, 
and the same is with the ruler. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ A ruler should sin’’ to exclude him 
who was sick with leprosy, as it reads [II Kings, xv. 5]: ‘‘ And 
the Lord afflicted the king with leprosy, and he was a leper unto 
the day of his death, and he dwelt in the free-house.* And 
Jotham the king’s son,’’ etc. What does it mean, free-house? 
Was he until that time a servant or a slave? Yea; as it hap- 
pened with Raban Gamaliel and R. Yehoshua, who were ona 
boat; the former has prepared bread for food, and the latter 
prepared bread and fine flour for food. And when the bread of 
R. Gamaliel was consumed by him he relied upon the fine flour 
of Yehoshua. And to the question of the former: Were you 
aware that there will be a delay in the journey, that you took 
with you so much food, he answered: There is a star which ap- 
pears once in seventy years that makes the captains of the ships 
err, and I thought perhaps it will appear now and make us err, 
I therefore prepared more food. Said Gamaliel: You possess 
so much wisdom and still you are compelled to go on a ship to 
make your living. And he rejoined: You are wondering about 
myself, how would you be surprised if you knew about two dis- 
ciples of yours who are on the land—viz.: R. Elasar Chasma and 
Johanan b. Goodgada, who can imagine how many drops of 
water there are in the sea and nevertheless have no bread to eat 
and no garment for dress. R. Gamaliel then made up his mind 
to make them officers in the best places of the congregation, 
and when he returned home he sent for them, but they did not 
appear; he sent again for them, and when they came he said to 
them: Do you think that the appointment to such high offices 
which I am about to confer on you, will make yourulers? Nay; 





* Leeser’s translation does not correspond. 


ee rene 


TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS), 21 


slavery I give to you, as it reads [I Kings, xii. 7]: ‘‘ If thou wilt 
this day be a servant unto this people,’’ etc. 

R. Na’hman b. R. ’Hisda lectured; it reads [Eccl. viii. 14]: 
** There is a vanity which is done upon the earth, that there are 
righteous men’’; happy are the righteous whose fate is like that 
of the wicked in the world to come; and woe is to the wicked 
whose fate is in this world like that of the righteous in the world 
tocome. Said Rabha: May not the righteous be rewarded in 
both this and the world to come? Therefore, said he, ‘‘ Happy 
are the righteous whose fate is like the fate of the wicked in this 
world, and woe is to the wicked whose fate is like aay of the 
righteous in this world. } 

R. Papa and R. Huna b. R. Jehoshua came to Rabha and 
the latter questioned them if they have learned thoroughly such 
and such tracts of the Talmud, to which they answered: ‘‘ Yea.’’ 
And to his question: Have you become a little rich so that you 
have time to study properly? They rejoined: Yea; as we 
bought little grounds. He then applied to them the above-cited 
verse. 

Rabha b. b. ’Hana said, in the name of R. johanan/4 it reads 
[Hos. xiv. 10]: ‘* For righteous are the ways of the Lord; and 
the just shall walk in them; but the transgressors will dieaihs 
through them ’’; whereby Lot and his two daughters are meant. 
To the latter who intended to do a meritorious act, the verse 
‘*the just shall walk in them”’ is applied, and to him who in- 
tended to commit a crime, the last words of the same verse are 
applied. And whence do we know that he has intended to 
commit acrime? Was he not compelled to this action? It was 
taught in the name of R. Jose b. R. ’Huni: Why is the vav 
of the word dkumah [Gen. xix. 33] pointed? Because he (Lot) 
was not aware at the start, but when she got up he became 
aware of his act. But what could he do; there was no remedy 
to what has already passed? He ought to have drunk the sec- 
ond evening. 

Rabba lectured [Prov. xviii. 19]: ‘‘ A brother offended is 
harder than a strong town’’; by this Lot is meant, who sepa- 
rated himself from Abraham. ‘‘ And quarrels [among brothers] 
are like the bars of a castle’’; it is Lot who made Israel to 
quarrel with the nation of Amon [Deut. xxiii. 4]. 

Rabha or R. Itz’hak lectured [Prov. xviii. 1]: ‘‘ He that 
separateth himself [from God] seeketh his own desires: at every 
sound wisdom is he enraged’’; by the first part of this verse 


22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


Lot is meant, who separated himself from Abraham; and by 
the second half the punishment of Amon and Moab is meant, 
of whom a Mishna states the prohibitions of mingling with them 
are forever lasting. Ula said: Tammar sinned, and kings and 
prophets were her issues. Zimri sinned and tens of thousands 
of Israel fell. (How great a difference }) 

‘" What ts meant by ruler,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: It reads 
‘“ A prince.’’ Lest one say a prince of a tribe as, ¢.g., Na’hshan 
b. Aminodob, it reads: the above-cited verse [Lev. iv.] and 
[Deut. xvii. 19], concerning a king, it reads: ‘‘ He shall fear the 
Lord his God’’; now, as there no one but his God is his supe- 
rior, so also here. 

Rabbi questioned R. Hyye: I, who am a prince, am I liable 
to a he-goat?. And he answered: There are your rivals in Baby- 
lon; Rabha objected to him from the following: Kings of Israel 
and the kings of the house of David have to bring their offerings 
Separately? And he answered: They were not dependent each 
upon the other, while we are dependent on those in Babylon. 

R. Safra taught the above as follows: Rabbi questioned 
Hyye: I, e.g., who am a prince, am I liable to a he-goat? And 
he answered: In Babylon there is a tribe (Shebet), etc. (See 
Sanhedrin, p._.) 

MISHNA ///.: And who is the anointed priest? He who 
was consecrated to priesthood by the holy ointment and not 
merely by the many (8) raiments. However, between these two 
kinds of priests there exists no other difference except the bul- 
lock-sacrifice attending the violations of any of the command- 
ments. Nor is there any difference between the priest in office 
and the retired priest except the bullock of the day of atonement 
and the tenth of the Zz/ah. Both are equal as regards the ser- 
vices on the day of atonement, the command to marry a virgin, 
the prohibition from marrying a widow, from defiling themselves 
to a dead relative, from wild-growing of the hair, from tearing 
their garments; finally both effect through their respective 
deaths the return of the homicide from exile. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: In the oil for anointing 
which was made by Moses, they used to soak the roots, so R. 
Jehudah, etc. (Here it is repeated from Tract Kherithoth, 
5 b. to 6 b., and as there is its proper place, we omit it here.) 

The rabbis taught: The anointed, and lest one say it means 
the king, it adds ‘‘ the priest.’’ And lest one say, that also he 
who was sanctified by his dress only, therefore “‘ the anointed.’ 





TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 23 


But still one may say that it means the priest anointed for the 
war time, therefore and ‘‘ the anointed priest,’’ z.e., the distin- 
guished one who has no one anointed over him. 

‘‘ There ts no difference between the anointed,’’ etc. Our 
Mishna is not in accordance with R. Nair, as he holds that he 
who was sanctified by the eight dresses, has to bring a bullock 
for the transgression of all the negative commandments which 
are to be found in the Scripture; while the sages did not agree 
with him. But how can you say that our Mishna is in accord- 
ance with the rabbis? Does not the latter part state, “‘ There 
is no difference between a priest who is still in his office and one 
retired, but concerning the bullock of the day of atonement and 
the tenth of Eipha,’’ all which can be only in accordance with 
R. Nair, as we have learned in the following: If it happened to 
the high-priest a thing which makes him temporarily unfit for 
service, so that he was substituted by another priest, then the 
former returns to his office and his substitute remains with all 
the obligations of a high-priest, so R. Nair; R. Jose, however, 
maintains that the substitute is no more fit either as a high- 
priest orasasimpleone. And headded: It happened to Joseph 
b. Ailim of Ceporas that something made him temporarily 
unfit, to serve as high-priest, and another one was substituted, 
and his brethren the priests did not allow his substitute to be 
either a high-priest or a common one: a high-priest because of 
animosity, and a common one because of the rule that one may 
be raised in sanctification but not lowered; hence, we see that 
the first part of the Mishna is in accordance with the rabbis, and 
the second with R. Mair. Said R. ’Hisda: So it is. But R. 
Jose said: It is in accordance with Rabbi, who edited the Mishna 
in question in accordance with different Tanaim. Rabha, how- 
ever, said: It is in accordance with R. Simeon, who holds with 
R. Mair in one case, but differs with him in the other. (The 
difference of opinion of the above Tanaim is translated already 
in Tract Joma.) 

The Mishna states: ‘‘Except the five things which are said 
in the portion regarding a high-priest.’’ Whence is this de- 
duced? From what the rabbis taught [Lev. xxi. 10]: ‘“‘ And 
the priest that is highest among his brethren,’’ means the high- 
priest. ‘‘ Upon whose head anointing oil hath been poured,’’ 
means that who was appointed for the war. ‘‘ And who hath 
been consecrated to put on the garments,’’ means that who 
was sanctified by the garments only; and to all them it says, 


24 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘* Shall not let the hair of his head grow long, and his garments 
shall he not rend. Neither shall he go in to any dead body,’’ 
etc. And lest one says that they all may perform the holy ser- 
vice in the first day in which death occurs in his family, it reads, 
‘* For the crown of the anointing oil of his God is upon him,’’ 
which means, upon him but not upon his appointed colleague, 
7.¢., the appointed for the war, and as the latter was separated 
Freie the above, one might say that he is also commanded to 
take a virgin; therefore [ibid. 13]: ‘‘ And he shall take a wife 
in her virgin state,’’ Ze and not some other one. However, in 
the latter case Tanaim differ. 

MISHNA /V.: The high-priest rends his garment from be- 
low; the common priest, from the top. The former, while in 
mourning, may offer sacrifices but not eat thereof; the latter, if 
in mourning, must do neither the one nor the other. 

Said Rabh: From below means literally he shall tear from the 
bottom of the garment. Samuel, however, says: From the bot- 
tom of the seam, and on top means on the top of the seam. 
But both must be on the bottom of the collar. 

MISHNA V.: What is more common precedes the less com- 
mon; the more holy precedes the less sanctified. If the bullock 
of the anointed priest and that of the congregation are simul- 
taneously ready as sacrifices, the former precedes the latter in 
all respects. 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? Said Abaye [Numb. 
xxviii. 23]: “‘ Besides the burnt-offering of the morning, which 
is for a continual burnt-offering, shall ye prepare these.’’ Now, 
as it reads already the burnt-offering of the morning, why was it 
necessary to state which is for a continual offering? To teach 
that what is more common precedes the less. And whence do 
we know that what is more sanctified precedes the less one? 
From what was taught by the disciples of R. Ismael: “‘ Thou 
shallst sanctify him,’’ means to every sanctification he shall 
begin first, he shall make the benediction first, and he shall be 
the first to take the best share. 

‘© The bullock of the anointed,’’ etc. Whence is this deduced? 
From [Lev. iv. 21]: ‘‘ And he shall burn him as he has burned 
the first bullock.’’ To what purpose was the “‘ first’’ neces- 
sary? To teach that he must make precede the bullock of the 
congregation in all respects. 

The rabbis taught: If the bullock of the anointed priest and 
that of the congregation were standing, the former precedes the 








TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 25 


latter in all respects, because as the anointed one atones and the 
congregation is atoned, it is but right that he who atones shall 
precede the atoned one in all respects. And so also it reads 
[ibid. xvi. 17]: “‘So shall he make an atonement for himself, 
and for his houshold, and for the whole congregation of Israel. 

MISHNA V/Z.: The man has the preference over the woman 
in respect of preservation of life and of returning a loss. The 
woman has the preference in respect of dressing and of being 
ransomed from captivity. If two persons of different sex are 
menaced with being (sexually) disgraced, the man must be pro- 
tected first. : 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: if it happened that he, his 
master and his father were in captivity (and he was able to re- 
deem one of them), he himself has the preference over the latter, 
and his master has the preference over his father. His mother, 
however, has the preference over all. A sage has the preference 
over a king of Israel, as if a sage dies we have no equal to him, 
but if a king dies all Israel are fit for the throne. A king has the 
preference over a high priest, as [I Kings i. 33]: “Take with 
you the servants of your lord,” etc. A high priest has the pref- 
erence to a prophet, as [ibid. 34]: ‘And let Zadek the priest 
with Nathan the prophet,” hence the priest precedes the prophet. 
The priest anointed with the anointed oil precedes him who 
was sanctified by his garments. The latter precedes the 
one appointed for the war, and he precedes him who was re- 
moved from office on being blemished, and he precedes segan 
(vice high priest), and he precedes the Amarkhal. (What does 
Amarkhal mean? said R. ’Hisda: the head officer of the temple.) 
The last one precedes the treasurer, and he precedes the head of 
the watching officer. ' He (the head) precedes the head of the 
family priest, and the latter precedes a common priest. 

MISHNA VZZ.: The following precede one another in order 
of arrangement: the priest, Levite (simple), Israelite, bastard, 
nathin, proselyte, a freed slave; provided, however, they are 
equally qualified in learning; but if, e.g., the bastard be a learned 
man in the Law, while the high priest is an ignorant, the pref- 
erence is on the part of the former. 

GEMARA: “ £qually qualified,’ etc. Whence is this de- 
duced? Said R.A’ha b. R. ’Hanina, from [Prov. iii. 15], “She 
is more precious than pearls” ; (* puzxzm), which means from the 
high priest who enters the sanctum sanctissimum. 





* Pninim is homonymous with Pxim, which means inside. 


x6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


_ There is a Boraitha: R. Simeon b. Ia’hai said that it is but 
right that a free slave have the preference over a proselyte, as 
the former was brought up with us in sanctity, which is not the 
case with the latter; however, as a slave has been placed in the 
category of the “cursed” [Genes. ix. 25], a proselyte has the 
preference. 

The disciples of R. Elazar b. Zadok questioned their master : 
Why is one more anxious to marry a female proselyte than a 
freed female slave? and he answered as a reason the slave's being 
in the category of the “cursed,” and also because the proselyte 
is supposed to have kept herself in chastity, which, as a rule, is 
not the case with. the slave. | 

They further questioned: Why does the dog know his mas- 
ter, and the cat does not? and his answer was: It is certain that 
he who eats from what is left by a mouse is apt to have a poor 
memory, so much the more so the cat that himself consumes the 
mouse. They questioned again: Why do all these animals (i.e. 
dogs, cats, and the like) reign over the mice? and he answered: 
Because the mice are instinctively mischievous, since, says Rabha, 
they tear even garments; and R. Papa says: They gnaw through 
even the handle of a pick-ax. 

The rabbis taught the following five objects are conducive to 
one’s forgetting his studies: The eating up of the remnants of © 
the mice’s or cat’s food, of the heart of a cow, the frequent con- 
suming of olives, the drinking of the water left from one’s own 
washing, and, finally, the bathing of one’s feet one kept on the 
other. According to others add yet this: the putting of one’s 
clothes under one’s head while sleeping, 

The following five are apt to strengthen one’s memory: 
Bread baked on coals, and particularly the consuming of the 
coals themselves, soft eggs without salt, the frequent drinking of 
olive oil, of wine flavored with spices, of water left after its use _ 
for a dough. According to others add yet this: to dip the finger in 
salt and consume the latter. According to others add this: the 
consuming of wheat bread and particulary of the wheat itself. 

This Boraitha furnishes a support to R. Johanan who was wont 
of saying that as an olive causes one to forget one’s studies 
acquired during a period of 70 years, so the oil thereof calls back 
to one’s memory the studies of such a perod. 
| Concerning the consuming of salt on one’s finger, according 

to Resh Lakish this must be done with one finger; while 
Tanaim differ: according to R. Jehudah it is with one finger and 








TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 27 


not two, according to R. Jose two and not three fingers, and the 
negative sign of it is Kuritzah, i.e. taking a fistful of the meal- | 
offering (done always with three fingers). 

The following ten objects are cumbrous to one’s studies: pass- 
ing under the rope of a camel and particularly under the camel 
itself; passing between two camels, between two women, the 
passing of a woman between two men, passing through the ob- 
noxious odor of a carcass, passing under a bridge where nature 
was not running for 40 days, the eating of half-baked bread, of 
meat taken out with the Gwunparpos (spoon with which the 
scumming is done), drinking from a well streaming through a 
cemetery, looking on the face of a corpse. According to others 
add yet, reading the inscriptions on a tombstone. 

The rabbis taught: when the prince enters, all the people 
present in college rise to their feet, without again taking their 
seats until he tells them to'doso. When the chief justice enters. 
the people occupying two rows of seats facing the entrance rise 
’ and remain standing until he takes his seat. If the sage enters, 
the occupants of one row rise and remain standing until he takes 
his place. The children as well as the disciples of the sages, if 
their help in the studies is needful, are allowed to pass over the 
heads of the people (seated on the floor), but not when their help 
is not wanted. The children of such scholars who superintend 
the congregation, if they comprehend the subjects treated of, 
may enter, sit down with their faces to their fathers and backs 
to the people; but if not, they have to sit in the opposite order. 
R. Elicar b. R. Zadok said that also at a banquet these children 
may be invited for the sake of their parents. If one of them 
has to go out for physiological requirements he may return, 
Said Rabha, this is so only when their fathers are still alive and 
also present. . 

Said R. Johanan: This Mishna was taught in the time of 
R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, when he was the prince, R. Nathan the 
president, and R. Mair the sage of the college. When R. Simeon 
would enter, the people rose; likewise when either R. Mair or 
R. Nathan entered the people would rise; said then the prince: 
If so, there is no difference between me and the others, whereas 
I should like that a difference be made; and he accordingly 
enacted the rules laid down in the Mishna. However, this was 
carried out in the absence of R. Mair and R. Nathan, so that on 
the morrow when they came and saw the people behind the 2 
rows remaining in their seats, they asked the reason thereof, in 


28 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


answer to which they were told of the prince’s enactment. There- 
upon said R. Mair to R. Nathan: I am the sage and you are the 
president, let us enact something in our behalf; let us ask R. 
Simeon to teach us Tract Uktzin (stalks of fruit), and as we are 
aware that he is not versed therein, we will say unto him [Psal. 
cvi. 2] “ Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord?” he ‘who 
can publish all his praise!’’ Thereupon we will depose him and 
you will take his place and ‘I yours. R. Jacob b. Oarshi (Rabbi’s 
master) overheard this plan and was embarrassed as to how he 
could prevent R. Simeon’s reputation from being marred; he then 
hid himself in back of R. Simeon’s attic and began to study aloud 
Uktzin over again and again, until R. Simeon has noticed it and 
the idea struck him that something must have happened in the 
college, to which Jacob would like to draw his attention; he 
accordingly was quick enough to take up the study of Uktzin, 
and, indeed, succeeded in acquiring close familiarity with this” 
Tract. On the morrow he was asked in the college, according to 
the premeditated plan, to lecture on Uktzin which he did, and 
after he was through he said to them: If my attention had not 
been called to this Tract, | should have been put to public shame 
by your plan. On his command, then, R. Mair and R. Nathan 
were removed from the college. They, however, were circulating 
in writing, questions and objections and throwing them in to the 
college; to those that could not be resolved in college, they — 
would themselves write the answers and send them again to col- 
lege. Said R. Jose to the college: The whole Torah is outside 
and we should remain inside the college? This pressure urged 
R. Simeon to allow the relegated to return under the penalty, 
however, that the Halakhas be not proclaimed in their names. 
Therefore R. Mair’s Halakhas were henceforth classed with the 
anonymous teachers, and R. Nathan’s were given as “according 
to some.” It once happened that both had dreams commanding 
them to reconcile R. Simeon; whereupon R. Nathan did so, 
while R. Mair said that he does not yield to dreams as they are 
nonsense. When R. Nathan came to reconcile him, R. Simeon 
b. Gamaliel said: Because thy father’s (official) belt helped the 
to be president of the court, must we make thee Nasi (prince)? 
Rabbi taught to R. Simeon his son: The anonymous teachers 
say so and so; interrupted him his son; who are they whose 
water we imbibe and whose names we do not mention? And he 
answered: They were the men who conspired to destroy your 
glory and that of your father’s house, rejoined he; [Eccl. ix, 6.] 








TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 29 


“ Also their love, and their hatred, and their envy are now already 
lost,” answered the Rabbi paraphrasing. (Psal.ix. 7): The enemy 
is lost, but his ruinous deeds are still existing; said R. Simeon: 
this would be right if the deeds of the rabbis in question remained 
effective, but they whom you have in view had only an intention, 
and one that has never been realized. Thereupon Rabbi taught 
to him again; so and so was said in the name of R. Mair. Said 
Rabha: Rabbi, though modest in nature, yet refrained from say- 
ing ‘it was said by R. Mair,’ but taught it was said zu the name 
of R. Mair. | 

Said R. Johanan: R. Simeon C. Gamaliel and the rabbis dif- 
fered with regard to the following: according to one the erudite 
scholar, while according to the other, the dialectician, has has the 
preference. A message concerning this point was sent to the 
west, and the answer thereto was: the erudite has the preference, 
_ since every one is in need of the owner of the stored-up wheat. 
R. Joseph was the erudite, and Rabha was the dialectician, and 
though the answer of the west was in favor of the former, he did 
not accept the position of head of the college for 22 years, until 
Rabha who accepted this position died. During all this time R. 
Joseph did not invite to his house even a barber, but was himself 
going wherever he needed. 

Abaye and Rabha, R. Zero and Rabha C. Mathma were sitting 
together at the time when the presidency of the college was 
vacant, and they have decided that he who will recite a point that 
will meet no objection be elected to this office. The sayings of 
them all were objected, excepting that of Abaye which was not ; 
thereupon Rabha noticing that Abaye was raising his head, said 
to him: Wa’hmeni, begin your lecture (you are the head of the 
college). 

The schoolmen questioned regarding R. Zera who was a genius 
and in the habit of raising objections, and Rabha C. Mathma who 
was slow, careful and considerate in drawing conclusions, which of 
the two types has the preference. This question remained un- 
decided. 


END OF TRACT HORIOTH AND OF THE VOL. XVIII, 
AND ALSO OF THE WHOLE SECTION JURISPRUDENCE. 


Ly 
i 


a 




















7 a 
eA 
MAE 


a 4 
u 
¥ 


atl 
as 
fy 





AVEN LIBRARY, 
KNOX COLLEGE _ 
TORONTO 





Neue 


bp 


ot 


Maree 
tes 
se 


¢ 
va 


7 


fea 
3 


od 
ae 


* \) 
WS tit 
SSti Ms 
HY 
SANGIN IA 
5 © >) a% 

































a te TY ey f, - - J e, 6) y 7 ies Tote 7 m, ne oi - r.3 Ss 
5 aries r eet : . = 8 - iat, is : 7 
Aide fac! sal BN ar Ae Wa Boe ing hoe Se Eade La lag ca SO a gh RS Pe abc at ‘ “ = i Seated ass eagee ae i 2 : - . , ‘ 
° ; ee frie . ee <etent ers Pe a SU Te DOLE RON SPE Pee i ek = ste yn i 
. : 7 ae : : ; - hi = noe po % ae ox by oot Fe, ie r Aa A RT AE eM Se SEO an THY Fat 

















¢ Vee Sey ENA BS 
VEN SAN CaS ee RATS SN ES 
CME IE Vive PAV SS 


Ley SWNT Y A VEY DE EAS 
TENN * ™ 




















VN ASS 
wT eA 








GY 
y y 


Sd 





Te A 
ceed 
ak 





TRS, 
OS ee 





~, 
aS, 
fq 


: 








, 
eet Oa oe 
FAV 4 
YEP Y 


SEO e 
ORs 


ay. 


Or | 
vad 


