     __________________________________________________________________

           Title: A Saint Indeed or the Great Work of a Christian in Keeping the
                  Heart in the Several Conditions of Life
      Creator(s): Flavel, John (1630-1691)
     Print Basis: Joseph Martin, 1826
          Rights: Public Domain
   CCEL Subjects: All; Christian Life
      LC Call no: BV4500.F55
     LC Subjects:

                  Practical theology

                  Practical religion. The Christian life
     __________________________________________________________________

  A

                                  SAINT INDEED

    OR THE

GREAT WORK OF A CHRISTIAN

    IN

KEEPING THE HEART

    IN THE

SEVERAL CONDITIONS OF LIFE.

  With a Sketch of the Life of the Author.

    TO WHICH IS ADDED

A DOUBLE TABLE,

  Containing, in the first, the Sins most incident to the Members of particular
  Churches, plainly forbidden in the Word. In the second, the duties enjoined on
  them in the Scripture. Also, six benefits in walking by these rules.

By the Rev. JOHN FLAVEL.

  With Translations, Corrections and Additions.

RICHMOND:

    PUBLISHED BY JOSEPH MARTIN.

    T. W. White, Printer.

    1826.
     __________________________________________________________________

    PREFACE

   In presenting to the public, Mr. FLAVEL'S Saint Indeed, or, the Great
   work of a Christian in keeping the Heart, it may be necessary for the
   Publisher to remark, that this edition comes into existence with the
   original title given to it by the Author, and that his own arrangement
   of the work is strictly adhered to, without any mutilation, except that
   various quotations and references given in the work have been fairly
   translated, with all other necessary corrections.

   He has also annexed, for the improvement of the volume, a Double Table,
   selected from the works of the reverend author; and he has subjoined to
   his Preface, a sketch of Mr. Flavel's life, taken from Calamy's Ejected
   Ministers. The whole work will be found to contain that vigour of
   thought and ingenuity of language, which so predominates through all
   his works, with every other excellence of this good and pious
   Christian--and which generally marks the production of an earlier day,
   and for which it is allowed that the superior refinement of modern
   writers, is, of itself, but a poor commutation.

   The voluminous works of Mr. Flavel, shew that he was equally as
   laborious for the good of souls in the closet as in the pulpit--they
   have passed through many editions, and have made his name precious to
   the pious in both England and America, for near a century and a half
   past; and, as one of his contemporaries have said, they will be so, as
   long as the earth shall endure. This great and good man, like the Great
   Apostle to the gentiles, whether in bonds or in imprisonment, must be
   breathing out the praises of his Divine Master, and bringing forth
   consolatory epistles, and pointing out land marks for the people of God
   to steer by, through this dangerous and solitary wilderness, and bring
   them safe into their desired haven. Thus it appears at the time he
   penned this ingenious work, his own doors were shut against
   himself,--Still his breast lay open to the flock over whom his lord had
   made him overseer, having lived in those perilous times, when it was
   not safe for a true disciple of Christ to shew his face; and, being
   proscribed from preaching in the narrow sphere of his own flock, went
   forth without fear into the fields, and highways, beseeching sinners to
   be reconciled to God, counting not his life dear, so that he might win
   souls and finish his course with joy.

   'John Flavel, a celebrated English divine, was born in Worcestershire
   about the year 1627. He was educated at the University College, Oxford,
   where he took his degree of B. A. In 1650, he settled as assistant
   minister to Mr. Walplate, rector of Diptford in Devonshire, and shortly
   after succeeded to the rectory, which, however, in 1656, he resigned,
   in order that he might enlarge the sphere of his usefulness, by
   becoming minister of a very populous parish at Dartmouth; though the
   stipend in this situation was much less advantageous than that which he
   had left. In 1662, he was among the number of ejected ministers, for
   refusing the terms proposed by the act of uniformity. He did not
   however, entirely separate himself from his people, but preached and
   administered the sacrament privately, till the passing of the Oxford
   act in 1665, which prohibited non-conforming ministers from residing
   within five miles of any city, corporate town, &c. or any place where
   they had preached.

   'Mr. Flavel was now obliged to retire to Slapton, a village five miles
   from Dartmouth, where he wrote his Saint Indeed, and where he preached
   to those who durst venture to become his auditors, and sometimes he
   visited his former people, but this required the greatest care on his
   part to avoid that persecution which would unquestionably follow the
   violation of the law. His zeal in some instances led him to the
   exercise of his talents at a hazard of his safety; once in a wood about
   three miles from Exeter, a congregation assembled to hear him, but he
   had scarcely begun, when a party sent for the purpose, surrounded the
   place of meeting, and it was with the utmost difficulty he escaped;
   others, who were supposed the leaders were apprehended and heavily
   fined. Those who were more fortunately circumstanced, remembering the
   admonition, "that if persecuted in one place they should flee to
   another," accompanied their preacher to an adjoining wood, where he
   preached without molestation. In 1685, the mob was excited against him,
   and would probably have destroyed him, had he fallen into their hands;
   to avoid therefore the threatened evil he came to London. Here,
   however, he was not long safe; in one instance while a number of
   persons were assembled, a party of soldiers broke in upon them, and
   though Mr. Flavel again escaped, yet an aged minister, Mr. Jenkins,
   fell into their hands, and was thrown into Newgate, where he suffered
   so much hardship, as speedily to terminate his life. After some stay in
   the metropolis, he returned to Dartmouth, where, a prisoner in his own
   house, he was useful in affording private instructions to those who
   resorted to him for the purpose.

   'In 1687, when king James assumed the right of dispensing with the
   laws, and granting more liberty to non-conformists, Mr. Flavel's
   congregation immediately obtained for him a large place, in which he
   was enabled to exercise his ministerial functions; and by the
   revolution in 1688, he was permitted to do that by law, which he had
   performed before by connivance. He died at Exeter in 1691, in his 61st
   year, having long possessed, in an eminent degree, the respect and
   esteem of all good men.

   'He was a man of exemplary piety, and his various works were once much
   read, and are still greatly esteemed. They were collected after his
   death in two volumes folio.--Calamy's Ejected Ministers.'

EPITAPH

    ON THE REVEREND JOHN FLAVEL.


   Happy in his studies; an acute disputant;

   A seraphic preacher; an elegant writer;

   In all full of learning, and very famous;

   Exact in his sentiments, and excellent in his morals;

   An unwearied patron of Christian truth, piety and charity;

   An utter enemy to all kinds of vice and error.

   The glory of the church and the city he belonged to,

   Where he had worn himself quite out in praying,

   And watching for the good of God's people,

   Peacefully fell asleep in Jesus

   on June 26, 1691; Aged 61.

   His works are at this time again passing through the press in England,
   which in a great degree goes to establish these lines penned by Mr.
   Richard Baxter, when he says of Flavel,


   His virtues would a monument supply,

   But underneath this stone his ashes lie.

   Could grace or learning from the grave set free,

   Flavel thou hadst not seen mortality.

   Tho' here thy dusty part death's victim lies,

   Thou by thy works thyself doth eternize,

   Which death nor rust of time shall overthrow;

   Whilst thou dost reign above these live below.

ANECDOTE

    Extracted from the Life of the Reverend John Flavel.

   "Mr. Flavel being in London in 1673, his old bookseller, Mr. Boulter,
   gave him the following relation, viz. that some time before there came
   into his shop a fashionable gentleman to inquire for some play books;
   Mr. Boulter told him he had none, but shewed Mr. Flavel's Treatise on
   Keeping the Heart, entreated him to read it, and assured him it would
   do him more good than play books. The gentleman read the title, and
   glancing upon several pages here and there, broke out into these and
   such other expressions, 'What damnable fanatic was he who made this
   book?' Mr. Boulter begged him to buy and read it, and told him he had
   no cause to censure it so bitterly; at last he bought it, but told him
   he would not read it. 'What will you do with it then?' said Mr.
   Boulter. 'I will tear and burn it,' said he, 'and send it to the
   devil.' Mr. B. replied, 'Then you shall not have it.' Upon this the
   gentleman promised to read it; and Mr. Boulter told him, if he disliked
   it upon reading, he would return him his money. About a month after,
   the gentleman came to the shop again in a very modest habit, and, with
   a serious countenance, addressed Mr. Boulter thus: 'Sir, I most
   heartily thank you for putting this book into my hands; I bless God
   that moved you to do it; it hath saved my soul; blessed be God that
   ever I came into your shop.' And then he bought a hundred more of those
   books of him, told him he would give them to the poor, who could not
   buy them; and so left him, praising and admiring the goodness of God."
     __________________________________________________________________

EPISTLE DEDICATORY.

   To my dearly beloved and longed for, the flock of Jesus Christ in
   Dartmouth, over whom the Holy Ghost hath made me an overseer; sound
   judgment, true zeal, and unstained purity, are heartily wished.

   My Dear Friends,

   There are three sad sights with which our eyes should continually
   affect our hearts: the 1st, is to behold in every place, so many
   profane and dissolute ones, who bear the very image of Satan; the face
   of whose conversation plainly discovers what they are and whither they
   are going, Phil. iii. 18, 19. These look like themselves, the children
   of wrath. The 2d, is to see so many cursed hypocrites artificially
   disguising themselves, and with marvellous dexterity acting the parts
   of saints; so that even a judicious eye may sometimes mistake the
   similar workings of the spirit on them, for his saving workings on
   others: to hear such a person conferring, praying, bewailing his
   corruptions, and talking of his experiences; would easily persuade a
   man to believe that he hath the heart, as well as the face, of a
   sincere Christian: for, sic oculus, sic ille manus, sic ora ferebat.

   So the people of God do speak, so they pray, and even so they open
   their conditions: these look like saints, but are none. The 3d, is to
   see so many real saints, in whom the spirit of truth is, who yet,
   through the impetuous workings of their corruptions, and neglecting of
   the watch over their hearts, do often fall into such scandalous
   practices, that they look like hypocrites, though they are not so.

   These are three sad sights indeed; and, Oh that my head were waters,
   and mine eyes fountains of tears, that I might weep abundantly over
   them all!

   For the first, I would mourn heartily, considering that they (so
   continuing) must be damned eternally, 2 Thess. i. 8, 9. 1 Cor. vi. 9.

   For the second, I would both weep and tremble, considering that they
   (so abiding) must be damned doubly, Matth. xxiv. 51.

   And for the third, no less than any of the rest, because, though they
   themselves may, and shall be saved, yet their examples make fast the
   bonds of death upon both the former, Matth. xviii. 7. 2 Sam. xii. 13,
   14.

   Alas! that ever they should shed the blood of other souls, for whom
   Christ shed his own blood! that ever they should be cruel to others,
   who have found Christ so kind to them! I know they dare not do it
   directly and intentionally, but so it proves occasionally and
   eventually. Suffer me here to digress a little, and expostulate with
   these prejudiced and hardened souls; I will presently return to you
   again. O why do you mischief your own souls by other men's examples?
   because they stumble and break their shins, will you fall, and break
   your necks? I desire all such as harden themselves by these things, and
   take up a good opinion of their own deplorable condition, would soberly
   consider, and answer these three queries.

   Query 1. Doth religion any way countenance or patronize the sinful
   practices of its professors? Or doth it not rather impartially and
   severely condemn them? It is the glory of the Christian religion, that
   it is pure and undefiled, Jam. i. 27. No doctrine so holy, Psal. xix.
   8. Nor doth any make more provision for an holy life, Tit. ii. 11, 12.
   Indeed there is a case wherein we may change the evil practices of men
   upon their principles; but that is, when their practices naturally flow
   from, and necessarily follow their principles: as for example, if I see
   a Papist sin boldly, I may charge it upon his principles, for they set
   pardons to sale, and so make way for looseness; if I see an Arminian
   slight the grace of God, and proudly advance himself, I may cry, shame
   upon his principles, which directly lead to it: but can I do so, where
   such practices are condemned and provided against, by their own avowed
   principles who commit them?

   Query 2. Is it not a most irrational thing to let fly at religion
   because of the scandalous ways of some, whilst in the mean time you
   wholly slight and overlook the holy and heavenly conversation of many
   others? Are all that possess godliness loose and careless in their
   lives? no, some are an ornament to their profession, and the glory of
   Christ; and why must the innocent be condemned with the guilty? why the
   eleven, for one Judas?

   Query 3. If you condemn religion because of the scandalous lives of
   some that profess it, must you not then cast off all religion in the
   world, and turn downright Atheists? Surely this is the consequence of
   it: for what religion is there, but some that profess it walk contrary
   to their professions? and then, as Constantine told the Novatian, you
   must set set up your ladder, and go to heaven by yourself. But, alas!
   it is not our printed apologies for religion, but the visible
   reformation of its professors, that must both salve its honour, and
   remove those fatal stumbling-blocks at which the blind world strikes,
   and falls into eternal perdition.

   Now there are two ways by which this may be effected: First", by
   convincing the consciences of professors of their miscarriages; and the
   evil and aggravations of them. Secondly, by medicating the heart, and
   cleansing the fountain whence they proceed. In the first of these, a
   worthy and eminent servant of Christ has lately laboured, holding a
   clear gospel-glass before the faces of professors, which truly
   represents their spots and blemishes: if he that reads it will
   consider, apply, and practice, it shall doubtless turn to his
   salvation; but if it turn to no good account to him that reads it, I
   know it shall turn to a testimony for him that wrote it. The second is
   a principal design of this small treatise, the subject whereof is
   exceeding weighty, and of daily use to the people of God, though the
   manner of handling it be attended with many defects and weaknesses:
   every one cannot be excellent, who yet may be useful.

   I will exercise your patience no longer than whilst I tell you,

   1. Why I publish it to the view of the world.

   2. Why I direct it particularly to you.

   First, for the publication of it, take this sincere and brief account,
   that, as I was led to this subject by a special providence, so to the
   publication of it by a kind of necessity: the providence at first
   leading me to it, was this, a dear and choice friend of my intimate
   acquaintance, being under much inward trouble, upon the account of some
   special heart-disorder, opened the case to me; and earnestly requested
   some rules and helps in that particular: whilst I was bending my
   thoughts to that special case, divers other cases of like importance
   (some of which were dependent upon that consideration) occurred to my
   thoughts; and this scripture, which I have insisted upon, presented
   itself, as a fit foundation for the whole discourse; which being
   lengthened out to what you see, diverse friends requested me to
   transcribe for their use, divers of the cases here handled, and some
   others begged me to publish the whole; to which I was in a manner
   necessitated, to save the pains of transcribing, which to me is a very
   tedious and tiresome work: and just as I had almost finished the copy,
   and opportunity presented (and that somewhat strangely) to make it
   public. So that from first to last I have been carried beyond my first
   intentions in this thing.

   Object. If any say, the world is even cloyed with books; and therefore,
   though the discourse be necessary, yet the publication is needless.

   Sol. I answer, There are multitudes of books indeed, and of them, many
   concern not themselves about root-truths, and practical godliness, but
   spend their strength upon impracticable notions and frivolous
   controversies; many also strike at root-truths, and endeavor to
   undermine the power of godliness; and some there are that nourish the
   root, and tend to clear and confirm, to prepare and apply the great
   truths of the gospel, that they may be bread for souls to live and feed
   on: now, though I could wish, that those who have handled the pen of
   the scribe, had better employed their time and pains than to obtrude
   such useless discourses upon the world; yet, for books of the latter
   rank, I say, that, when husbandmen complain of too much corn, let
   Christians complain of too many such books.

   2. And if you be so highly conceited of your own furniture and ability,
   that such books are needless to you; if you let them alone, they will
   do you no hurt, and other poor hungry souls will be glad of them, and
   bless God for what you despise and leave.

   Object. If it be said, that several of the cases here handled touch not
   your condition, I answer,

   Sol. 1. That which is not your condition may be another's condition. If
   you be placed in an easy, full, and prosperous state, and so have no
   need of the helps here offered to support your heart under pinching
   wants, others are forced to live by faith for every day's provision: If
   you be dandled upon the knee of providence, some of your brethren are
   under its feet: if you have inward peace and tranquility of spirit, and
   so need not the counsels here given, to ward off those desperate
   conclusions that poor afflicted souls are ready to draw upon themselves
   at such a time; yet it may be a word in season to them, and they may
   say, as David to Abigail, blessed be thou of the Lord, and blessed by
   thy advice.

   2. That may be your condition shortly, which is not your condition at
   present: say not, thy mountain stands strong, thou shalt never be
   moved: there are changes in the right-hand of the most High; and then
   those truths, which are little more esteemed than hedge-fruits, will be
   as apples of gold in pictures of silver. In Jer. 10, 11, the prophet
   there teaches the Jews (who then dwelt in their own houses) how to
   defend their religion in Babylon, and what they should say to the
   Chaldeans there, and therefore that verse is written in Chaldee. So
   much for the reasons of its publication. Next, for the dedication of it
   to you, I was induced thereto by the considerations,

   1. Of the relation I have to you above all the people in the world: I
   look upon my gifts as yours, my time as yours, and all the talents I am
   intrusted with, as yours: it is not with you as with a woman whose
   husband is dead, and so is freed from the law of her husband; the
   relation still continues, and so do all the mutual duties of it.

   2. By the consideration of my necessitated absence from you. I would
   not that personal absence should by insensible degrees untwist (as
   usually it doth) the cord of friendship; and therefore have endeavoured
   (as absent friends use to do) to preserve and strengthen it by this
   small remembrance. It was Vespasian's answer to Apollonius, when he
   desired access for two philosophers: my doors (said Vespasian) are
   always open to philosophers, but my very breast is open to thee. I
   cannot say with him, my doors are open for the free access of friends,
   being by a sad providence shut against myself; but this I can say, my
   very breast is still open to you; you are as dear to me as ever.

   3. Another inducement (and indeed the main) was the perpetual
   usefulness and necessity of these truths for you, which you will have
   continual need of: and I know few of you have such happy memories to
   retain, and I cannot be always with you to inculcate these things, but
   litera scripta manet. I was willing to leave this with you as a legacy,
   as a testimony of sincere love for, and care over you: this may counsel
   and direct you when I cannot: I may be rendered useless to you by a
   civil or natural death; but this will out live me, and oh that it may
   serve your souls when I am silent in the dust!

   To hasten now to a conclusion: I have only three requests to make to
   you, which I earnestly beseech you not to deny me; yea, I charge you,
   as ever you hope to appear with comfort before the great shepherd, do
   not dare to slight these requests;

   1. Above all other studies in the world study your own hearts: waste
   not a minute more of your precious time about frivolous and sapless
   controversies. It is reported even of Bellarmine (how truly I examine
   not) quod a studiis scholasticae theologiae averteretur fere nause
   abundas, quonian succo carebant liquid pietatis, i.e. he turned with
   loathing from the study of school divinity, because it wanted the sweet
   juice of piety. I had rather it should be said of you, as one said of
   Swinkfeldius, he wanted a regular head, but not an honest heart, than
   that you should have regular heads, and irregular hearts. My dear
   flock, I have, according to the grace given me, laboured in the course
   of my ministry among you, to feed you with the heart-strengthening
   bread of practical doctrine; and I do assure you, it is far better you
   should have the sweet and saving impressions of gospel-truths,
   feelingly and powerfully conveyed to your hearts, than only to
   understand them by a bare ratiocination, or a dry syllogistical
   inference. Leave trifling studies to such as have time lying on their
   hands, and know not how to employ it: remember you are at the door of
   eternity, and have other work to do; those hours you spend upon
   heart-work in your closets, are the golden spots of all your time, and
   will have the sweetest influence to your last hour. Never forget those
   sermons I preached to you, upon that subject, from 2 Kings xx. 2, 3.
   Heart-work is weighty and difficult work; and error there, may cost you
   your souls: I may say of it, as Augustine speaks of the doctrine of the
   trinity, nihilo facilius aut periculosius erratur; a man can err in
   nothing more easily or more dangerously. O then, study your hearts.

   3. My next request is, that you will carefully look to your
   conversations, and be accurate in all your ways; hold forth the word of
   life: be sure by the strictness and holiness of your lives, to settle
   yourselves in the very consciences of your enemies. Remember that your
   lives must be produced in the great day to judge the world, 1 Cor. vi.
   2. Oh then, what manner of persons ought you to be! you have many eyes
   over you, the omniscient eye of God, that searches the heart and reins,
   Rev. ii. 23. the vigilant eye of Satan, Job. i. 7, 8. the envious eyes
   of enemies, that curiously observe you, Psal. v. 8. the quick and
   observant eye of conscience, which none of your actions escape, Rom.
   ix. 1.

   O then be precise and accurate in all manner of conversation: keep up
   the power of godliness in your closets and families, and then you will
   not let it fall in your more public employments and conversations in
   the world. I have often told you, that it is the honour of the gospel,
   that it makes the best parents and children, the best masters and
   servants, the best husbands and wives in the world.

   My third and last request is, that you pray for me: I hope I can say,
   and I am sure some of you have acknowledged, that I came at first
   amongst you, as the return and answer of your prayers; and indeed so it
   should be, Luke x. 2. I am persuaded also, I have been carried on in my
   work by your prayers; it is sweet when it is so, Eph. vi. 18, 19. And I
   hope by your prayers to receive yet a further benefit, even that which
   is mentioned, Heb. xiii. 18, 19. Philem. ver. 22. And truly it is but
   equal you should pray for me: I have often prayed for you: let the
   pulpit, family, and closet, witness for me: and God forbid I should sin
   against the Lord, in ceasing to pray for you.

   Yea, friends, your interest ought to persuade you to it: what mercies
   you obtain for me, redound to your own advantage; if God preserve me,
   it is for your use and service; the more gifts and graces a minister
   hath, the better for them that shall wait on his ministry: the more God
   gives in to me, the more I shall be able to give out to you. I will
   detain you no longer, but to intreat you to accept this small
   testification of my great love, and have recourse to it, according as
   the exigencies of your condition shall require: read it consideringly
   and obediently; judge it not by the dress and style, but by the weight
   and favour of what you read. It is a good rule of Bernard, in legendis
   libris, non quaeramus scientiam sed saporem, i.e. in reading books,
   regard not so much the science, as the favour. That it may prove the
   savour of life unto life to you, and all those into whose hands it
   shall come, is the hearty desire of,

   Your loving and faithful pastor,

   JOHN FLAVEL.

   From my study at Ley in Slapton,

   Oct. 7th, 1667.
     __________________________________________________________________

   A

                                  SAINT INDEED

   Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of
   life--Prov. iv. 23.

   The heart of man is his worst part before it be regenerate, and the
   best afterwards: it is the seat of principles, and fountain of actions.
   The eye of God is, and the eye of a Christian ought to be, principally
   fixed upon it.

   The greatest difficulty in conversion, is, to win the heart to God; and
   the greatest difficulty after conversion, is, to keep the heart with
   God. Here lies the very pinch and stress of religion; here is that
   which makes the way to life a narrow way, and the gate to heaven a
   strait gate. Direction and help in this great work, are the scope and
   sum of this text; wherein we have,

   1. An exhortation, keep thy heart with all diligence.

   2. The reason, or motive enforcing it; for out of it are the issues of
   life.

   In the exhortation I shall consider,

   1. The matter of the duty.

   2. The manner of performing it.

   1. The matter of the duty, keep thy heart. Heart is not here taken
   properly for that noble part of the body which philosophers call, the
   primum vivens, et ultimum moriens; the first that lives, and the last
   that dies; but by heart, in a metaphor, the scripture sometimes
   understands some particular noble faculty of the soul: in Rom. i. 21,
   it is put for the understanding part, their foolish heart, (i. e.)
   their foolish understanding was darkened. And Psalm cxix. 11, it is put
   for the memory, thy word have I hid in my heart; and 1 John iii. 20, it
   is put for the conscience, which hath it in both the light of the
   understanding, and the recognitions of the memory: if our heart condemn
   us, (i.e.) if our conscience, whose proper office it is to condemn. But
   here we are to take it more generally for the whole soul, or inner man;
   for look what the heart is to the body, that the soul is to the man;
   and what health is to the heart, that holiness is to the soul: Quod
   sanitas in corpore id sanctitas in corde. The state of the whole body
   depends upon the soundness and vigour of the heart, and the everlasting
   state of the whole man upon the good or ill condition of the soul.

   And by keeping the heart, understand the diligent and constant [1] use
   and improvement of all holy means and duties, to preserve the soul from
   sin, and maintain its sweet and free communion with God. Lavater in
   loc. will have the word taken from a besieged garrison, begirt by many
   enemies without, and in danger of being betrayed by treacherous
   citizens within: in which danger, the soldiers, upon pain of death, are
   commanded to watch; and whereas the expression (keep thy heart) seems
   to put it upon us as our work, yet it does not imply a sufficiency or
   ability in us to do it. We are as able to stop the sun in its course,
   or make the rivers run backward, as by our own skill and power to rule
   and order our hearts: we may as well be our own saviours, as our own
   keepers; and yet Solomon speaks properly enough when he says, keep thy
   heart; because the duty is ours; though the power be God's. A natural
   man hath no power: a gracious man hath some, though not sufficient; and
   that power he hath, depends upon the exciting and assisting strength of
   Christ: gratia gratiam postulat, grace within us is beholding to grace
   without us. Without me ye can do nothing, John xv. 5. So much of the
   matter of the duty.

   2. The manner of performing it, is with all diligence; the Hebrew is
   very emphatical, cum omnicustodia, keep with all keeping, quid. keep,
   keep; set double guards, your hearts will be gone else. And this
   vehemency of expression with which the duty is urged, plainly implies
   how difficult it is to keep our hearts, and how dangerous to let them
   go.

   3. The reason, or motive quickening to this duty, is very forcible and
   weighty: for out of it are the issues of life. That is, it is the
   source and fountain of all vital actions and operations; hinc fons buni
   et pecandi orige,saith Jerom; it is the spring and original both of
   good and evil, as the spring in a watch that sets all the wheels in
   motion. The heart is the treasury, the hand and tongue but the shops:
   what is in these, comes from thence; the hand and tongue always begin
   where the heart ends. The heart contrives, and the members execute,
   Luke vi. 45. A good man out of the good treasury of his heart bringeth
   forth good things, and an evil man out of the evil treasury of his
   heart bringeth forth evil things: for out of the abundance of his heart
   his mouth speaketh. So then, if the heart err in its work, these must
   needs miscarry in theirs; for heart-errors are like the errors of the
   first concoction, which cannot be rectified afterwards: or like the
   misplacing, and inverting of the stamps and letters in the press, which
   must needs cause so many errata in all the copies that are printed off.
   O then how important a duty is that which is contained in the following
   proposition!

   Doct. That the keeping, and right managing of the heart in every
   condition, is the great business of a Christian's life.

   What the philosopher saith of waters, is as properly applicable to
   hearts; suis terminis: dafficile continentur: it is hard to keep them
   within any bounds: God hath set bounds and limits to them, yet how
   frequently do they transgress, not only the bounds of grace and
   religion, but even of reason and common honesty? Hic labour hoc opus
   est: this is that which affords the Christian matter of labour, fear
   and trembling to his dying day. It is not the cleansing of the hand
   that makes a Christian, for many a hypocrite can shew as fair a hand as
   he; but the purifying, watching, and right ordering of the heart; this
   is the thing that provokes so many sad complaints, and costs so many
   deep groans and brinish tears. It was the pride of Hezekiah's heart
   that made him lie in the dust mourning before the Lord, 2 Chron. xxxii.
   26. It was the fear of hypocrisy invading the heart, that made David
   cry, let my heart be sound in thy statutes, that I be not ashamed,
   Psal. cxix. 80. It was the sad experience he had of the divisions and
   distractions of his own heart in the service of God, that made him pour
   out that prayer, unite my heart to fear thy name, Psal. lxxxvi. 11.

   The method in which I shall improve the point shall be this;

   First, I shall enquire what the keeping of the heart supposes and
   imports.

   Secondly, Assign divers reasons, why Christians must make this the
   great work and business of their lives.

   Thirdly, Point at those special seasons which especially call for this
   diligence in keeping the heart.

   Fourthly, and lastly, apply the whole in several uses.
     __________________________________________________________________

   First, What the keeping of the heart supposes and imports.

   To keep the heart, necessarily supposes a previous work of
   sanctification, which hath set the heart right, by giving it a new
   spiritual bent and inclination; for, as long as the heart is not set
   right by grace, as to its habitual frame, no duties or means can keep
   it right with God. Self is the poise of the unsanctified heart, which
   biases and moves it in all its designs and actions; and, as long as it
   is so, it is impossible that any external means should keep it with
   God.

   Man, by creation, was of one constant, uniform frame and tenor of
   spirit, held one straight and even course; not one thought or faculty
   ravelled or disordered: his mind had a perfect illumination to
   understand and know the will of God; his will a perfect compliance
   therewith; his sensitive appetite, and other inferior powers, stood in
   a most obedient subordination.

   Man, by degeneration, is become a most disordered and rebellious
   creature, contesting with and opposing his Maker, as the first cause,
   by self-dependence; as the chiefest good, by self-love; as the highest
   Lord, by self-will; and as the last end, by self-seeking; and so is
   quite disordered, and all his acts irregular: his illuminated
   understanding is clouded with ignorance; his complying will, full of
   rebellion and stubbornness; his subordinate powers casting off the
   dominion and government of the superior faculties:

   But by regeneration this disordered soul is set right again;
   sanctification being the rectifying and due framing, or, as the
   scripture phrases it, the renovation of the soul after the image of
   God, Eph. iv. 24. in which, self-dependence is removed by faith;
   self-love, by the love of God; self-will, by subjection and obedience
   to the will of God; and self-seeking by self denial. The darkened
   understanding is again illuminated, Eph. i. 18. the refractory will
   sweetly subdued, Psal. cx. 3. the rebellious appetite or concupiscence
   gradually conquered, Rom. vi. 6, 7. And thus the soul, which sin had
   universally depraved, is again by grace restored and rectified.

   This being presupposed, it will not be difficult to apprehend what it
   is to keep the heart, which is nothing else but the constant care and
   diligence of such a renewed man, to preserve his soul in that holy
   frame to which grace hath reduced it, and daily strives to hold it.

   For, though grace hath, in great measure, rectified the soul, and given
   it an habitual heavenly temper; yet sin often actually discomposes it
   again; so that even a gracious heart is like a musical instrument,
   which, though it be ever so exactly tuned, a small matter places out of
   tune again; yea, hang it aside but a little, and it will need setting
   again, before you can play another lesson on it: even so stands the
   case with gracious hearts; if they are in frame in one duty, yet how
   dull, dead and disordered when they come to another! And therefore
   every duty needs a particular preparation of the heart. If thou prepare
   thine heart, and stretch out thy hands towards him, Job xi. 13. Well
   then, to keep the heart, is carefully to preserve it from sin, which
   disorders it; and maintain that spiritual and gracious frame, which
   fits it for a life of communion with God. And this includes these six
   acts in it;

   1. Frequent observation of the frame of the heart, turning in and
   examining how the case stands with it; this is one part of the work:
   carnal and formal persons take no heed to this, they cannot be brought
   to confer with their own hearts; there are some men and women that have
   lived forty or fifty years in the world, and have scarce had one hour's
   discourse with their own hearts all that while: it is a hard thing to
   bring a man and himself together upon such an account; but saints know
   those soliloquies and self-conferences to be of excellent use and
   advantage. The heathen could say, anima sedendo & quiescendo fit
   sapiens, the soul is made wise by sitting still in quietness. Though
   bankrupts care not to look into their books of account, yet upright
   hearts will know whether they go backward or forward, Psal. lxxvii. 6.
   I commune with mine own heart. The heart can never be kept, until its
   case be examined and understood.

   2. It includes deep humiliation for heart-evils and disorders; thus
   Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart, 2 Chron. xxxii.
   26. Thus the people were ordered to spread forth their hands to God in
   prayer, in a sense of the plague of their own hearts, 1 Kings viii. 38.
   Upon this account many an upright heart had been laid low before God: O
   what an heart have I! They have in their confessions pointed at the
   heart; the pained place; Lord, here is the wound, here is the
   plague-sore. It is with the heart well kept, as it is with the eye,
   which is a fit emblem of it, if a small dust get into the eye, it will
   never leave twinkling and watering till it have wept it out: so the
   upright heart cannot be at rest till it have wept out its troubles, and
   poured out its complaints before the Lord.

   3. It includes earnest supplications and instant prayer for
   heart-purifying and rectifying grace, when sin hath defiled and
   disordered it; so, Psal. xix. 12, cleanse thou me from secret faults;
   and Psal. lxxxvi. 11, Unite my heart to fear thy name.--Saints have
   always many such petitions depending before the throne of God's grace;
   this is the thing which is most pleaded by them with God: when they are
   praying for outward mercies, haply their spirits may be more remiss,
   but when it comes to the heart case, then they extend their spirits to
   the utmost, fill their mouths with arguments, weep and make
   supplication: oh, for a better heart! of for a heart to love God more!
   to hate sin more, to walk more evenly with God: Lord, deny not to me
   such a heart, whatever thou deny me; give me a heart to fear thee, love
   and delight in thee, if I beg my bread in desolate places. It is
   observed of holy Mr. Bradford, that when he was confessing sin, he
   would never give over confessing until he had felt some brokenness of
   heart for that sin; and, when praying for any spiritual mercy, would
   never give over that suit, till he had got some relish of that mercy;
   that is the third thing included in keeping the heart.

   4. It includes the imposing of strong engagements and bonds upon
   ourselves to walk more accurately with God, and avoid the occasions
   whereby the heart may be induced to sin: well composed, advised, and
   deliberate vows, are, in some cases, of excellent use to guard the
   heart against some special sin; so Job xxxi. 1, I made a covenant with
   mine eyes; by this means, holy ones have overawed their souls, and
   preserved themselves from defilement by some special heart-corruptions.

   5. It includes a constant holy jealousy over our own hearts;
   quick-sighted self-jealousy is an excellent preservative from sin; he
   that will keep his heart, must have the eyes of his soul awake and open
   upon all the disorderly and tumultuous stirrings of his affections; if
   the affections break loose, and the passions be stirred, the soul must
   discover and suppress them before they get to an height: O, my soul,
   dost thou well in this? My tumultuous thoughts and passions, where is
   your commission?

   State viri, quae causa viae? quive estis in armis?Virg.

   Ye men pause, what is the cause of journey? why are ye in arms?

   Happy is the man that thus feareth always, Prov. xxviii. 14. By this
   fear of the Lord it is that men depart from evil, shake off security,
   and preserve themselves from iniquity; he that will keep his heart must
   feed with fear, rejoice with fear, and pass the whole time of his
   sojourning here in fear, and all little enough to keep the heart from
   sin.

   6. And Lastly, to add no more, it includes the realising of God's
   presence with us, and setting the Lord always before us: thus the
   people of God have found a singular means to keep their hearts upright,
   and awe them from sin. When the eye of our faith is fixed upon the eye
   of God's omniscience, we dare not let out our thoughts and affections
   to vanity: holy Job durst not suffer his heart to yield to an impure,
   vain thought; and what was it that moved him to so great
   circumspection? Why, he tells you, doth he not see my ways, and count
   all my steps? Job xxxi. 4. Walk before me (saith God to Abraham) and be
   thou perfect, Gen. xvii. 1. Even as parents use to set their children
   in the congregation before them, knowing that else they will be toying
   and playing; so would the heart of the best man too, were it not for
   the eye of God.

   In these and such like particulars, do gracious souls express the care
   they have of their hearts; they are as careful to prevent the breaking
   loose of their corruptions in times of temptation, as seamen are to
   bind fast the guns, that they break not loose in a storm; as careful to
   preserve the sweetness and comfort they have got from God in any duty,
   as one that comes out of a hot bath, or great sweat, is of taking cold,
   by going forth into the chill air. This is the work, and of all works
   in religion it is the most difficult, constant, and important work.

   1. It is the hardest work; heart-work is hard work indeed: to shuffle
   over religious duties with a loose and heedless spirit, will cost no
   great pains; but to set thyself before the Lord, and tie up thy loose
   and vain thoughts to a constant and serious attendance upon him; this
   will cost thee something: to attain a facility and dexterity of
   language in prayer, and put thy meaning into apt and decent
   expressions, is easy; but to get thy heart broken for sin, whilst thou
   art confessing it; melted with free grace, whilst thou art blessing God
   for it; to be really ashamed and humbled through the apprehensions of
   God's infinite holiness, and to keep thy heart in this frame, not only
   in, but after duty, will surely cost thee some groans and travailing
   pains of soul: to repress the outward acts of sin, and compose the
   external part of thy life in a laudable and comely manner, is no great
   matter; even carnal persons by the force of common principles can do
   this; but to kill the root of corruption within, to set and keep up an
   holy government over thy thoughts, to have all things lie straight and
   orderly in the heart, this is not easy.

   2. It is a constant work. The keeping of the heart is such a work, as
   is never done till life be done; this labour and our life end together:
   It is with a Christian in this business, as it is with seamen that have
   sprung a leak at sea; if they tag not constantly at the pump, the water
   increases upon them, and will quickly sink them. It is in vain for them
   to say, the work is hard, and we are weary; there is no time or
   condition in the life of a Christian, which will suffer an intermission
   of this work. It is in the keeping watch over our hearts, as it was in
   the keeping up of Moses's hands, whilst Israel and Amalek were fighting
   below, Exod. xvii. 12. No sooner do Moses's hands grow heavy and sink
   down, but Amalek prevails. You know it cost David and Peter many a sad
   day and night for intermitting the watch over their own hearts but a
   few minutes.

   3. It is the most important business of a Christian's life. Without
   this we are but formalists in religion; all our professions, gifts and
   duties signify nothing: My son, give me thine heart, Prov. xxiii. 26.
   God is pleased to call that a gift, which is indeed a debt; he will put
   this honour upon the creature to receive it from him in the way of a
   gift: but, if this be not given him, he regards not whatever else you
   bring to him; there is so much only of worth and value in what we do,
   as there is of heart in it. Concerning the heart, God seems to say, as
   Joseph of Benjamin, if you bring not Benjamin with you, you shall not
   see my face. Among the Heathens, when the beast was cut up for
   sacrifice, the first thing the priest looked upon was the heart; and,
   if that were unsound and naught, the sacrifice was rejected. God
   rejects all duties (how glorious soever in other respects) offered him
   without a heart. He that performs duty without a heart, viz.
   heedlessly, is no more accepted with God, than he that performs it with
   a double heart, viz. hypocritically, Isa. lxvi. 3. And thus I have
   briefly opened the nature of the duty, what is imported in this phrase,
   Keep thy heart.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Secondly. Next, I shall give you some rational account why Christians
   should make this the great business of their lives, to keep their
   hearts.

   The importance and necessity of making this our great and main
   business, will manifestly appear in that, 1. The honour of God; 2. The
   sincerity of our profession; 3. The beauty of our conversation; 4. The
   comfort of our souls; 5. The improvement of our graces; and, 6. Our
   stability in the hour of temptation; are all wrapt up in, and dependent
   on our sincerity and care in the management in this work.

   1. The glory of God is much concerned therein; heart-evils are very
   provoking evils to the Lord. The schools do well observe, that outward
   sins are majoris infamae, sins of greater infamy; but heart-sins are
   majoris reatus, sins of deeper guilt. How severely hath the great God
   declared his wrath from heaven against heart wickedness; the great
   crime for which the old world stands indicted, is heart wickedness,
   Gen. vi. 5, 6, 7. God saw that every imagination (or fiction) of their
   heart was only evil, and that continually; for which he sent the most
   dreadful judgment that was ever executed since the world began: And the
   Lord said I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the
   earth, both man and beast, and the creeping things, and the fowls of
   heaven, for it repenteth me that I have made man, v. 7. We find not
   their murders, adulteries, blasphemies, (though they were defiled with
   these) particularly alleged against them; but the evils of their
   hearts: yea, that which God was so provoked by, as to give up his
   peculiar inheritance into the enemy's hand, was the evil of their
   hearts, Jer. iv. 14. O Jerusalem, wash thine heart from wickedness,
   that thou mayest be saved; how long shall vain thoughts lodge within
   thee? The wickedness and vanity of their thoughts God took special
   notice of; and, because of this, the Chaldean must come upon them as a
   lion from his thicket, and tear them to pieces, v. 7. For the very sin
   of thoughts it was that God threw down the fallen angels from heaven,
   and keeps them still in everlasting chains to the judgment of the great
   day; by which expression is not obscurely intimated some extraordinary
   judgment to which they are reserved, as prisoners that have most irons
   laid upon them, may be supposed to be the greatest malefactors: and
   what was their sin? Why only spiritual wickedness. For they having no
   bodily organs, could act nothing externally against God. Yea, mere
   heart-evils are so provoking, that for them he rejects with indignation
   all the duties that some men perform unto him, Isa. lxvi. 3. He that
   killeth an ox, is as if he slew a man; he that sacrificeth a lamb, as
   if he cut off a dog's neck; he that offereth an oblation, as if he
   offered swine's blood; he that burneth incense, as if he blessed an
   idol. In what words could the abhorrence of a creature's actions be
   more fully expressed by the holy God? Murder and idolatry are not more
   vile in his account, than their sacrifices, though materially such as
   himself appointed: and what made them so? The following words inform
   us, their soul delighteth in their abomination.

   To conclude, such is the vileness of mere heart-sins, that the
   scriptures sometimes intimate the difficulty of pardon for them. So in
   the case of Simon Magus, Acts viii. 21, his heart was not right, he had
   vile thoughts of God and the things of God: the Apostle bids him repent
   and pray, if perhaps the thoughts of his heart might be forgiven him. O
   then never slight heart-evils! for by these God is highly wronged and
   provoked; and for this reason let every Christian make it his work to
   keep his heart with all diligence.

   2. The sincerity of our profession much depends upon the care and
   conscience we have in keeping our hearts; for it is most certain, that
   a man is but an hypocrite in his profession, how curious soever he be
   in the externals of religion, that is heedless and careless of the
   frame of his heart: you have a pregnant instance of this in the case of
   Jehu, but Jehu took no heed to walk in the ways of the Lord God of
   Israel with his heart, 2 Kings x. 31. That context gives an account of
   the great service performed by Jehu against the house of Ahab and Baal,
   as also of a great temporal reward given him by God for that service,
   even that his children to the fourth generation, should sit upon the
   throne of Israel. And yet in these words Jehu is censured for an
   hypocrite: though God approved, and rewarded the work, yet he abhorred
   and rejected the person that did it as hypocritical: and wherein lay
   his hypocrisy? but in this, that he took no heed to walk in the ways of
   the Lord with his heart, i. e. he did all insincerely and for
   self-ends: and though the work he did was materially good, yet he, not
   purging his heart from those unworthy self-designs in doing it, was an
   hypocrite: and Simon, of whom we spake before, tho' he appeared such a
   person that the Apostle could not regularly refuse him; yet his
   hypocrisy was quickly discovered: and what discovered it but this, that
   though he professed and associated himself with the saints, yet he was
   a stranger to the mortification of heart-sins! Thy heart is not right
   with God, Acts viii. 21. It is true, there is a great difference among
   Christians themselves, in their diligence and dexterity about
   heart-work; some are more conversant and successful in it than others
   are; but he that takes no heed to his heart, he that is not careful to
   order it aright before God, is but a hypocrite. And they came unto me
   as the people cometh, and sit before thee (as my people) and hear thy
   words, but they will not do them; for with their mouths they shew much
   love, but their heart goes after their covetousness, Ezek. xxxiii. 31,
   32. Here were a company of formal hypocrites, as is evident by that
   expression (as my people) like them, but not of them. And what made
   them so? Their outside was fair; here were reverend postures, high
   professions, much seeming joy and delight in ordinances; thou art to
   them as a lovely song; yea, but for all that they kept not their hearts
   with God in those duties, their hearts were commanded by their lusts,
   they went after their covetousness; had they kept their hearts with
   God, all had been well; but not regarding which way their hearts went
   in duty, there lay the core of their hypocrisy.

   Objection. If any upright soul should hence infer that I am an
   hypocrite too, for many times my heart departs from God in duty, do
   what I can; yet I cannot hold it close with God.

   Solution.. To this I answer, the very objection carries in it its own
   solution. Thou sayest, do what I can, yet I cannot keep my heart with
   God. Soul, if thou doest what thou canst, thou hast the blessing of an
   upright, though God sees good to exercise thee under the affliction of
   a discomposed heart. There remains still some wildness in the thoughts
   and fancies of the best to humble them; but, if you find a care before
   to prevent them, and opposition against them when they come, grief and
   sorrow afterwards; you will find enough to clear you from reigning
   hypocrisy.

   1. This fore-care is seen partly in laying up the word in thine heart
   to prevent them, Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not
   sin against thee, Psal. cxix. 11: partly in our endeavors to engage our
   hearts to God, Jer. xxx. 21, and partly in begging preventing grace
   from God in our onsets upon duty, Psal. cxix. 36-37, it is a good sign
   where this care goes before a duty.

   And, 2d, It is a sweet sign of uprightness to oppose them in their
   first rise. I hate vain thoughts, Psal. cxix. 113. The spirit lusteth
   against the flesh, Gal. v. 17.

   And, 3d, Thy after-grief discovers thy upright heart. If, with
   Hezekiah, thou art humbled for the evils of thy heart, thou hast no
   reason, from those disorders, to question the integrity of it; but to
   suffer sin to lodge quietly in the heart, to let thy heart habitually
   and uncontrolledly wander from God, is a sad, and dangerous symptom
   indeed.

   3. The beauty of our conversation arises from the heavenly frames and
   holy order of our spirits; there is a spiritual lustre and beauty in
   the conversation of saints; The righteous is more excellent than his
   neighbour: they shine as the lights of the world; but whatever lustre
   and beauty is in their lives, comes from the excellency of their
   spirits, as the candle within puts a lustre upon the lanthorn in which
   it shines. It is impossible that a disordered and neglected heart
   should ever produce well ordered conversation: and since (as the text
   observes) the issues or streams of life flow out of the heart as their
   fountain, it must needs follow, that such as the heart is, the life
   will be: hence 1 Pet. ii. 11-12, Abstain from fleshly lusts--having
   your conversation honest, or beautiful, as the Greek word imports. So,
   Isa. lv. 7, Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his
   thoughts. His way notes the course of his life, his thoughts the frame
   of his heart; and therefore since the course of his life flows from his
   thoughts, or the frame of his heart, both or neither will be forsaken:
   the heart is the womb of all actions: these actions are virtually and
   seminally contained in our thoughts, and these thoughts being once made
   up into affections, are quickly made out into suitable actions and
   practices. If the heart be wicked, then, as Christ saith, Out of the
   heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, &c. Mat. xv. 19. Mark
   the order; first wanton, or revengeful thoughts; then unclean, or
   murderous practices.

   And if the heart be holy and spiritual, then, as David speaks from
   sweet experience, My heart is (inditing) a good matter, I speak of the
   things which (I have made) my tongue is as the pen of a ready writer,
   Psal. xlv. 1. Here is a life richly beautified with good works, some
   ready made; I will speak of the things which I have made: others upon
   the wheel making, my heart is inditing, but both proceeding from the
   heavenly frame of his heart.

   Put but the heart in frame, and the life will quickly discover that it
   is so. I think it is not very difficult to discern, by the duties and
   conversations of Christians, what frames their spirits are under; take
   a Christian in a good frame, and how serious, heavenly, and profitable
   will his conversations and duties be! what a lovely companion is he
   during the continuance of it! It would do any one's heart good to be
   with him at such a time, The mouth of the righteous speaketh wisdom,
   and his tongue talketh of judgment, the law of his God is in his heart,
   Psal. xxxvii. 30 31.

   When the heart is right with God, and full of God, how dexterously and
   ingeniously will it wind in spiritual discourse, improving every
   occasion and advantage to some heavenly purpose! Few words run then at
   the waste spout.

   And what else can be the reason why the discourses and duties of many
   Christians are become so frothy and unprofitable, their communion both
   with God, and one another, become as a dry stalk, but because their
   hearts are neglected? Surely this must be the reason of it, and verily
   it is an evil greatly to be bewailed; for want of this
   Christian-fellowship, it is become a sapless thing; so the attracting
   beauty that was wont to shine from the conversation of the saints upon
   the faces and consciences of the world, (which if it did not allure,
   and bring them in love with the ways of God, yet at least left a
   testimony in their consciences of the excellency of those men and their
   ways) this is in a great measure lost, to the unspeakable detriment of
   religion.

   Time was, when Christians did carry it at such a rate, that the world
   stood at a gaze at them. Their life and language were of a different
   strain from others, their tongues discovered them to be Galileans,
   wherever they came; but now, since vain speculations, and fruitless
   controversies have so much obtained, and heart-work, practical
   godliness, so much neglected among professors, the case is sadly
   altered, their discourse is become like other men's; if they come among
   you now, they may (to allude to that Acts 2, 6,) hear every man speak
   in his own language. And truly I have little hope to see this evil
   redressed, and the credit of religion again repaired, till Christians
   fall to their old work, till they ply heart work closer. When the salt
   of heavenly mindedness is again cast into the spring, the streams will
   run clearer and sweeter.

   4. The comfort of our souls doth much depend upon the keeping of our
   hearts; for he that is negligent in attending his own heart, is
   (ordinarily) a great stranger to assurance, and the sweet comforts
   flowing from it.

   Indeed, if the Antinomian doctrine were true, which teaches you to
   reject all marks and signs for the trial of your conditions, telling
   you, it is only the Spirit that immediately assures you, by witnessing
   your adoption directly without them; then you might be careless of your
   hearts, yea, strangers to them, and yet no strangers to comfort: but,
   since both scripture and experience do confute this dotage, I hope you
   will never look for comfort in that unscriptural way. I deny not but it
   is the work and office of the Spirit to assure you, and yet do
   confidently affirm, that if ever you attain assurance, in the ordinary
   way wherein God dispenses it, you must take pains with your own hearts;
   you may expect your comforts upon easier terms, but I am mistaken if
   ever you enjoy them upon any other: Give all diligence, prove
   yourselves: this is the scripture way. I remember Mr. Roberts, in his
   treatise of the covenant, tells us, that he knew a Christian who, in
   the infancy of his Christianity, so vehemently panted after the
   infallible assurance of God's love, that for a long time together he
   earnestly desired some voice from heaven, yea, sometimes walking in the
   solitary fields, earnestly desired some miraculous voice from the trees
   and stones there: this, after many desires and longings, was denied
   him; but in time a better was afforded in the ordinary way of searching
   the word, and his own heart. An instance of the like nature the learned
   Gerson gives us of one that was driven by temptation upon the very
   borders of desperation; at last being sweetly settled, and assured, one
   asked him, how he attained it? He answered, non ex nova aliqua
   revelatione, &c. Not by any extraordinary revelation, but by subjecting
   his understanding to the scriptures, and comparing his own heart with
   them. The spirit, indeed, assures by witnessing our adoption; and he
   witnesseth in two ways,

   1st, Objectively, i. e. by working those graces in our souls which are
   the conditions of the promise; and so the Spirit, and his graces in us,
   are all one: the Spirit of God dwelling in us, is a mark of our
   adoption. Now the Spirit cannot be discerned in his essence, but in his
   operations; and to discern these, is to discern the Spirit; and how
   these should be discerned, without serious searching and diligent
   watching of the heart, I cannot imagine.

   2d, The other way of the Spirit's witnessing is effectively, i. e. by
   irradiating the soul with a grace-discovering light, shining upon his
   own work; and this in order of nature follows the former work: he first
   infuses the grace, and then opens the eye of the soul to see it. Now
   since the heart is the subject of that infused grace, even this way of
   the Spirit's witnessing also includes the necessity of keeping
   carefully our own hearts: for,

   1st, A neglected heart is so confused and dark, that the little grace
   which is in it, is not ordinarily discernible: the most accurate and
   laborious Christians, that take most pains, and spend most time about
   their hearts, do yet find it very difficult to discover the pure and
   genuine workings of the Spirit there: how then shall the Christian
   which is (comparatively) negligent about heart-work, be ever able to
   discover it? Sincerity, which is the quaesitum, the thing sought for,
   lies in the heart like a small piece of gold in the bottom of a river,
   he that will find it must stay till the water is clear and settled, and
   then he shall see it sparkling at the bottom. And that the heart may be
   clear, and settled, how much pains and watching, care and diligence
   will it cost!

   2d, God doth not usually indulge lazy and negligent souls with the
   comforts of assurance; he will not so much as seem to patronize sloth
   and carelessness; he will give it, but it shall be in his own way: his
   command hath united our care and comfort together; they are mistaken
   that think the beautiful child of assurance may be born without pangs:
   ah how many solitary hours have the people of God spent in
   heart-examination! how many times have they looked into the word, and
   then into their hearts; sometimes they thought they discovered
   sincerity, and were even ready to draw forth the triumphant conclusion
   of assurance; then comes a doubt they cannot resolve, and dashes all
   again: many hopes and fears, doubtings and reasonings they have had in
   their own breasts, before they arrived at a comfortable settlement.

   To conclude, suppose it possible for a careless Christian to attain
   assurance, yet it is impossible he should long retain it; as for those
   whose hearts are filled with the joys of assurance, if extraordinary
   care be not used, it is a thousand to one if ever they long enjoy it:
   for a little pride, vanity and carelessness, will dash to pieces all
   that for which they have been labouring a long time, in many a weary
   duty. Since, then, the joy of our life, the comfort of our souls, rises
   and falls with our diligence in this work, keep your hearts with all
   diligence.

   5. The improvement of our graces depends on the keeping of our hearts;
   I never knew grace thrive in a negligent and careless soul; the habits
   and roots of grace are planted in the heart; and the deeper they are
   radicated there, the more thriving and flourishing grace is. In Eph.
   iii. 17, we read of being rooted in grace; grace in the heart is the
   root of every gracious word in the mouth, and of every holy work in the
   hand, Psal. cxvi. 10, 2 Cor. iv. 13. It is true, Christ is the root of
   a Christian; but Christ is origo originans, the originating root; and
   grace origo originata, a root originated, planted, and influenced by
   Christ; according as this thrives under divine influences, so the acts
   of grace are more or less fruitful, or vigorous. Now in a heart not
   kept with care and diligence, these fructifying influences are stopped
   and cut off: multitudes of vanities break in upon it, and devour its
   strength; the heart is, as it were the pasture, in which multitudes of
   thoughts are fed every day; a gracious heart diligently kept, feeds
   many precious thoughts of God in a day. How precious are thy thoughts
   to me, O God! how great is the sum of them! if I should count them,
   they are more in number than the sand; and when I awake, I am still
   with thee, Psal. cxxxix. 17, 18. And as the gracious heart feeds and
   nourishes them, so they refresh and feast the heart. My soul is filled
   as with marrow and fatness whilst I think upon thee, &c. Psal. lxiii.
   5, 6. But in the disregarded heart, swarms of vain and foolish thoughts
   are perpetually working, and jostle out those spiritual ideas, and
   thoughts of God, by which the soul should be refreshed.

   Besides, the careless heart makes nothing out of any duty or ordinance
   it performs or attends on, and yet these are the conduits of heaven,
   from whence grace is watered and made fruitful: a man may go with an
   heedless spirit from ordinance to ordinance, abide all his days under
   the choicest teaching, and yet never be improved by them; for
   heart-neglect is a leak in the bottom, no heavenly influences, how rich
   soever, abide in that soul, Matth. xiii. 3, 4. The heart that lies open
   and common, like the highway, free for all passengers; when the seed
   fell on it, the fowls came and devoured it. Alas! it is not enough to
   hear, unless we take heed how we hear; a man may pray, and never be the
   better, unless he watch unto prayer. In a word, all ordinances, means,
   and duties, are blessed unto the improvement of grace, according to the
   care and strictness we use in keeping our hearts in them.

   6. Lastly, The stability of our souls in the hour of temptation will be
   much according to the care and conscience we have of keeping our
   hearts; the careless heart is an easy prey to Satan in the hour of
   temptation, his main batteries are raised against that fort-royal, the
   heart; if he wins that, he wins all; for it commands the whole man:
   and, alas! how easy a conquest is a neglected heart! It is no more
   difficult to surprise it, than for an enemy to enter that city, whose
   gates are open and unguarded: it is the watchful heart that discovers
   and suppresses the temptation before it comes to its strength. Divines
   observe this to be the method in which temptations are ripened and
   brought to their full strength.

   There is, 1st, The irritation of the object, or that power it hath to
   work upon and provoke our corrupt nature; which is either done by the
   real presence of the object, or else by speculation, when the object
   (though absent) is held out by the phantasy before the soul.

   2d, Then follows the motion of the sensitive appetite, which is stirred
   and provoked by the phantasy, representing it as a sensual good, as
   having profit or pleasure in it.

   3d, Then there is a consultation in the mind about it, deliberating
   about the likeliest means of accomplishing it.

   4th, Next follows the election, or choice of the will.

   5th, And lastly, the desire, or full engagement of the will to it; all
   this may be done in a few moments, for the debates of the soul are
   quick, and soon ended: when it comes thus far, then the heart is won:
   Satan hath entered victoriously, and displayed his colours upon the
   walls of that royal fort; but had the heart been well guarded at first,
   it had never come to this height; the temptation had been stopped in
   the first or second act. And indeed there it is stopped easily; for it
   is in the motions of a tempted soul to sin, as in the motion of a stone
   falling from the brow of a hill, it is easily stopped at first, but
   when once it is set a going, vires acquirit eundo: it acquires strength
   by the going; and therefore it is the greatest wisdom in the world to
   observe the first motions of the heart, to check and stop sin there.
   The motions of sin are weakest at first: a little care and watchfulness
   may prevent much mischief now, which the careless heart not heeding, is
   brought within the power of temptation; as the Syrians were brought
   blindfold into the midst of Samaria, before they knew where they were.

   By this time, reader, I hope thou art fully satisfied how absolutely
   and necessary a work the keeping of the heart is, it being a duty that
   wraps up so many dear interests of the soul in it.

   Next, according to the method propounded, I proceed to point out those
   special seasons in the life of a Christian, which require and call for
   our utmost diligence in keeping the heart; for though (as was observed
   before) the duty binds ad semper, and there is no time or condition of
   life in which we may be excused from this work; yet there are some
   signal seasons, critical hours, requiring more than a common vigilance
   over the heart.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

                                  FIRST SEASON

HOW TO KEEP THE HEART HUMBLE

IN PROSPERITY

   First Season, "Is the time of prosperity, when providence smiles upon
   us, and dandles us upon its knee. Now Christian, keep thy heart with
   all diligence; for now it will be exceeding apt to grow secure, proud,
   and earthly, rara virtus est humilitas honorata, (saith Bernard) to see
   a man humble in prosperity, is one of the greatest rarities in the
   world. Even a good Hezekiah could not hide a vain-glorious temper under
   this temptation, and hence that caution to Israel: And it shall be when
   the Lord thy God shall have brought thee into the land which he sware
   to thy fathers, to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, to give thee great and
   goodly cities which thou buildest not, and houses full of all good
   things which thou filledst not, &c. Then beware lest thou forget the
   Lord, Deut. vi. 10, 11, 12: And indeed so it fell out, for Jeshurun
   waxed fat and kicked, Deut. xxxii. 15."

   Now then, the first case will be this, viz.

   Case 1. How a Christian may keep his heart from pride and carnal
   security, under the smiles of providence, and confluence of
   creature-comforts.

   There are seven choice helps to secure the heart from the dangerous
   snares of prosperity; the first is this,

   1. To consider the dangerous ensnaring temptations attending a pleasant
   and prosperous condition; few, yea, very few of those that live in the
   pleasures and prosperity of this world, escape everlasting perdition.
   It is easier (saith Christ) for a camel to pass through the eye of a
   needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven, Mat.
   xix. 24; and, not many mighty, not many noble are called, 1 Cor. i. 26.
   It might justly make us tremble when the scripture tells us in general,
   that few shall be saved; much more when it tells us, of that rank and
   sort of which we are, but few shall be saved.--When Joshua called all
   the tribes of Israel to lot upon them for the discovery of Achan,
   doubtless Achan feared; when the tribe of Judah was taken, his fear
   increased; but when the family of the Zarhites was taken, it was time
   then to tremble. So when the scripture comes so near as to tell us that
   of such a sort of men very few shall escape, it is time to look about;
   Miror si potest servari aliquis rectorum, saith Chrysostom; I should
   wonder if any of the rulers be saved. O how many have been coached to
   hell in the chariots of earthly pleasures, while others have been
   whipped to heaven by the rod of affliction! how few, like the daughter
   of Tyre, come to Christ with a gift! how few among the rich entreat his
   favour!

   2. It may yet keep us more humble and watchful in prosperity, if we
   consider that among Christians many have been much the worse for it.
   How good had it been for some of them, if they had never known
   prosperity! When they were in a low condition, how humble, spiritual,
   and heavenly, were they! but when advanced, what an apparent alteration
   hath been upon their spirits! It was so with Israel, when they were in
   a low condition in the wilderness; then Israel was holiness to the
   Lord, Jer. ii. 3, but when they came into Canaan, and were fed in a fat
   pasture, then we are lords, we will come no more unto thee, ver. 31.
   Outward gains are ordinarily attended with inward losses; as in a low
   condition their civil employments were wont to have a tang and savour
   of their duties; so in an exalted condition their duties commonly have
   a tang of the world. He, indeed, is rich in grace, whose graces are not
   hindered by his riches; there are but few Jehosaphats in the world, of
   whom it is said, He had silver and gold in abundance, and his heart was
   lifted up in the way of God's commands, 2 Chron. xvii. 5, 6. Will not
   this keep thy heart humble in prosperity, to think how dear many godly
   men have paid for their riches, that through them they have lost that
   which all the world cannot purchase? Then, in the next place,

   3. Keep down thy vain heart by this consideration, that God values no
   man a jot the more for these things. God values no man by outward
   excellencies, but by inward graces; they are the internal ornaments of
   the spirit, which are of great price in God's eyes, 1 Pet. iii. 4. He
   despises all worldly glory, and accepts no man's person; but in every
   nation, he that feareth God, and worketh righteousness, is accepted of
   him, Acts x. 35. Indeed, if the judgment of God went by the same rule
   that man's doth, we might value ourselves by these things, and stand
   upon them: but, as one said (when dying) I shall not appear before God
   as a doctor, but as a man; tantus quisquis est, quantus est apud Deum.
   So much every man is, and no more, as he is in the judgment of God.
   Doth thy heart yet swell? And will neither of the former considerations
   keep it humble?

   4. Then, Fourthly, Consider how bitterly many persons have bewailed
   their folly when they came to die, that ever they set their hearts upon
   these things, and heartily wish that they had never known them--What a
   sad story was that of Pius Quintus, who dying, cried out despairingly,
   When I was in a low condition, I had some hopes of salvation; but when
   I was advanced to be a cardinal, I greatly doubted it; but since I came
   to the Popedom, I have no hope at all. Mr. Spencer also tells us a
   real, but sad story, of a rich oppressor, who had scraped up a great
   estate for his only son; when he came to die, he called his son to him
   and said, Son, do you indeed love me? The son answered, that nature,
   besides his paternal indulgence, obliged him to that. Then, said the
   father, express it by this; hold thy finger in the candle as long as I
   am saying a pater noster: The son attempted, but could not endure it.
   Upon that, the father broke out into these expressions, thou canst not
   suffer the burning of thy finger for me, but to get this wealth, I have
   hazarded my soul for thee, and must burn body and soul in hell for thy
   sake: thy pains would have been but for a moment, but mine will be
   unquenchable fire.

   5. The heart may be kept humble, by considering of what a clogging
   nature earthly things are to a soul heartily engaged in the way to
   heaven; they shut out much of heaven from us at present, though they
   may not shut us out of heaven at last. If thou consider thyself under
   the notion of a stranger in this world, travelling for heaven, and
   seeking a better country, thou hast then as much reason to be taken and
   delighted with these things, as a weary horse hath with a heavy load:
   there was a serious truth in that atheistical scoff of Julian, when he
   took away the Christians' estates, and told them, it was to make them
   fitter for the kingdom of heaven.

   6. Is thy spirit, for all this, flatulent and lofty? Then urge upon it
   the consideration of that awful day of reckoning, wherein, according to
   our receipts of mercies, shall be our accounts for them: and methinks
   this should awe and humble the vainest heart that ever was in the
   breast of a saint. Know for certain, that the Lord records all the
   mercies that ever he gave thee, from the beginning to the end of thy
   life. Remember, O my people, from Shittim unto Gilgal, &c. Micah vi. 4,
   5. Yea, they are exactly numbered and recorded, in order to an account;
   and thy account will be suitable. To whomsoever much is given, of him
   shall much be required, Luke xii. 48. You are but stewards, and your
   Lord will come to take an account of you; and what a great account have
   you to make, who have much of this world in your hands? What swift
   witnesses will your mercies be against you, if this be the best fruits
   of them?

   7. It is a very humbling consideration, That the mercies of God should
   work otherwise upon my spirit, than they used to do upon the spirits of
   others, to whom they come as sanctified mercies from the love of God.
   Ah Lord! what a sad condition is this! Enough to lay me in the dust,
   when I consider,

   1st, That their mercies have greatly humbled them; the higher God has
   raised them, the lower they have laid themselves before God. Thus did
   Jacob, when God had given him much substance. And Jacob said, I am not
   worthy of the least of all thy mercies, and all the truth which thou
   hast shewed thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan,
   and now am become two bands, Gen. xxxii. 10. And thus it was with holy
   David, 2 Sam vii. 18. When God had confirmed the promise to him, to
   build him a house, and not reject him as he did Saul, he goes in before
   the Lord, and saith, who am I? and what is my father's house that thou
   hast brought me hitherto? And so indeed God required, Deut. xxvi. 5,
   when Israel was to bring to God the first fruits of Canaan, they were
   to say, a Syrian ready to perish was my father, &c. Do others raise God
   the higher for his raising them? And the more God raises me, the more
   shall I abase him and exalt myself? O what a sad thing is this!

   2d, Others have freely ascribed the glory of all their enjoyments to
   God, and magnified not themselves, but him, for their mercies: so
   David, 2 Sam. vii. 26. Let thy name be magnified, and the house of thy
   servant be established. He doth not fly upon the mercy, and suck out
   the sweetness of it, looking no farther than his own comfort; no, he
   cares for no mercy except God be magnified in it. So, Psal. xviii. 2,
   when God had delivered him from all his enemies, The Lord (saith he) is
   my strength and my rock, he is become my salvation. They did not put
   the crown upon their own heads, as I do.

   3. The mercies of God have been melting mercies unto others, melting
   their souls in love to the God of their mercies. So Hannah, 1 Sam. ii.
   1, when she received the mercy of a son, my soul (saith she) rejoiceth
   in the Lord; not in the mercy, but in the God of the mercy. And so
   Mary, My soul doth magnify the Lord, my spirit rejoiceth in God my
   Saviour, Luke i. 46. The word signifies to make more room for God;
   their hearts were not contracted, but the more enlarged to God.

   4th, The mercies of God have been mighty restraints to keep others from
   sin. So Ezra ix. 13, Seeing thou, our God, hast given us such a
   deliverance as this, should we again break thy commandments? Ingenuous
   souls have felt the force of the obligations of love and mercy upon
   them.

   5. To conclude, the mercies of God to others have been as oil to the
   wheels of their obedience, and made them fitter for services, 2 Chron.
   xvii. 5. Now if mercies work contrarily upon my heart, what cause have
   I to be afraid that they come not to me in love? I tell you, this is
   enough to damp the spirit of any saint, to see what sweet effects
   mercies they have had on others, and what sad effects on him.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                 SECOND SEASON

HOW TO KEEP THE HEART IN TIME

OF ADVERSITY

   "The second special season in the life of a Christian requiring more
   than a common diligence to keep his heart is the time of adversity.
   When providence frowns upon you, and blasts your outward comforts, then
   look to your hearts, keep them with all diligence from repining against
   God, or fainting under his hand; for troubles, though sanctified, are
   troubles still; even sweet-briar, and holy thistle, have their
   prickles. Jonah was a good man, and yet how pettish was his heart under
   affliction? Job was the mirror of patience, yet how was his heart
   discomposed by trouble? You will find it as hard to get a composed
   spirit under great afflictions, as it is to fix quick silver. O the
   hurries and tumults which they occasion even in the best hearts! Well
   then, the second case will be this:"

   Case 2. How a Christian under great afflictions may keep his heart from
   repining or desponding under the hand of God. Now, there are nine
   special helps I shall here offer, to keep thy heart in this condition;
   and the first shall be this, to work upon your hearts this great truth,

   1. That, by these cross providences, God is faithfully pursuing the
   great design of electing love, upon the souls of his people; and orders
   all these afflictions as means sanctified to that end.

   Afflictions fall not out not by casualty, but by counsel, Job v. 6,
   Eph. i. 11; by this counsel of God they are ordained as means of much
   spiritual good to saints, Isa. xxvii. 9. By this shall the iniquity of
   Jacob be purged, Hebrews xii. 10. But he for our profit, &c. Rom. viii.
   28, All things work together for our good.--They are God's workmen upon
   our hearts, to pull down the pride and carnal security of them; and
   being so, their nature is changed; they are turned into blessings and
   benefits. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, Psal. cxix. 71.
   And sure then, thou hast no reason to quarrel with, but rather to
   admire that God should concern himself so much in thy good, to use any
   means for the accomplishing of it, Phil. iii. 11. Paul could bless God,
   if by any means he might attain the resurrection of the dead. My
   brethren, (saith James) count it all joy when you fall into divers
   temptations, Jam. i. 2, 3. My Father is about a design of love upon my
   soul, and do I well to be angry with him? All that he doth is in
   pursuance of, and in reference to, some eternal glorious ends upon my
   soul. O, it is my ignorance of God's design, that makes me quarrel with
   him! He saith to thee in this case, as to Peter, What I do thou knowest
   not now, but hereafter thou shalt know it.

   Help 2. Though God hath reserved to himself a liberty of afflicting his
   people, yet he hath tied up his own hands by promise, never to take
   away his loving-kindness from them. Can I look that scripture in the
   face, with a repining, discontented spirit? I will be his father, and
   he shall be my son; if he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the
   rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men: nevertheless,
   my mercy shall not depart away from him, 2 Sam. vii. 14. O my heart! my
   haughty heart! dost thou well to be discontented, when God hath given
   thee the whole tree, with all the clusters of comfort growing on it,
   because he suffers the wind to blow down a few leaves? Christians have
   two sorts of goods, the goods of the throne, and the goods of the
   foot-stool; moveables and immovables: if God have secured these, never
   let my heart be troubled at the loss of those; indeed, if he had cut
   off his love, or discovenanted my soul, I had reason to be cast down;
   but this he hath not, nor can he do it.

   Help 3. It is of marvellous efficacy to keep the heart from sinking
   under affliction, to call to mind, that thine own father hath the
   ordering of them: not a creature moves hand or tongue against thee, but
   by his permission. Suppose the cup be a bitter cup, yet it is the cup
   which thy father hath given thee to drink; and canst thou suspect
   poison to be in that cup which he delivers thee? Foolish man, put home
   the case to thine own heart, consult with thine own bowels; canst thou
   find in thy heart to give thy child that which would hurt and undo him?
   no, thou wouldst as soon hurt thyself as him; If thou then being evil
   knowest how to give good gifts to thy children, how much more doth God?
   Mat. vii. 11. The very consideration of his nature, a God of love, pity
   and tender mercies, or of his relation to thee as a father, husband,
   friend, might be security enough, if he had not spoken a word, to quiet
   thee in this case; and yet you have his word too, (Jer. xxv. 6.) I will
   do you no hurt. You lie too near his heart to hurt you; nothing grieves
   him more than your groundless and unworthy suspicions of his designs
   do. Would it not grieve a faithful tender-hearted physician, when he
   hath studied the case of his patient, prepared the most excellent
   receipts to save his life, to hear him cry out, O he hath undone me! he
   hath poisoned me; because it gripes and pains him in the operation? O
   when will you be ingenuous!

   Help 4. God respects you as much in a low, as in a high condition; and
   therefore it need not so much trouble you to be made low; nay, to speak
   home, he manifests more of his love, grace, and tenderness, in the time
   of affliction, than prosperity. As God did not at first choose you
   because you were high, so he will not forsake you because you are low;
   men may look shy upon you, and alter their respects, as your condition
   is altered: when providence hath blasted your estates, your summer
   friends may grow strange, as fearing you may be troublesome to them;
   but will God do so? No, no; I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee,
   Heb. xiii. 5. Indeed if adversity and poverty could bar you from access
   to God, it were a sad condition; but you may go to God as freely as
   ever. My God (saith the Church) will hear me, Micah vii. 7. Poor David,
   when stripped of all earthly comforts, could yet encourage himself in
   the Lord his God, and why cannot you? Suppose your husband or child had
   lost all at sea, and should come to you in rags; could you deny the
   relation, or refuse to entertain him? If you would not, much less will
   God: why then are you so troubled? though your condition be changed,
   your Father's love and respects are not changed.

   Help 5. And what if by the loss of outward comforts, God will preserve
   your souls from the ruining power of temptation? Sure then, you have
   little cause to sink your hearts by such sad thoughts about them. Are
   not these earthly enjoyments the things that make men shrink and warp
   in times of trial? For the love of these many have forsaken Christ in
   such an hour. He went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions,
   Mat. xix. 22. And if this be God's design, what have I done in
   quarrelling with him about it? We see mariners in a storm can throw
   overboard rich bales of silk, and precious things, to preserve the
   vessel and their lives with it; and everyone saith, they act prudently;
   we know it is usual for soldiers in a city besieged, to batter down or
   burn the fairest buildings without the walls, in which the enemy may
   shelter in the siege; and no man doubts but it is wisely done: such as
   have gangrened legs or arms, can willingly stretch them out to be cut
   off, and not only thank, but pay the surgeon for his pains: and must
   God only be repined at, for casting over what will sink you in a storm?
   For pulling down that which would advantage your enemy in the siege of
   temptation? for cutting off what would endanger your everlasting life?
   O inconsiderate, ungrateful man! are not these things, for which thou
   grievest, the very things that have ruined thousands of souls? well,
   what Christ doth in this, thou knowest not now, but hereafter thou
   mayest.

   Help 6. It would much stay the heart under adversity, to consider, That
   God by such humbling providences, may be accomplishing that for which
   you have long prayed and waited: and should you be troubled at that?
   say, Christian, hast thou not many prayers depending before God upon
   such accounts as these; that he would keep thee from sin, discover to
   thee the emptiness and insufficiency of the creature; that he would
   kill and mortify thy lusts, that thy heart may never find rest in any
   enjoyment but Christ? Why now, by such humbling and impoverishing
   strokes, God may be fulfilling thy desire: wouldst thou be kept from
   sin? Lo, he hath hedged up thy way with thorns: wouldst thou see the
   creature's vanity? Thy affliction is a fair glass to discover it; for
   the vanity of the creature is never so effectually and sensibly
   discovered, as in our own experience of it: wouldst thou have thy
   corruptions mortified? This is the way; now God takes away the food and
   fewel that maintained them; for as prosperity begat and fed them; so
   adversity, when sanctified, is a means to kill them. Wouldst thou have
   thy heart rest nowhere but in the bosom of God? What better way canst
   thou imagine providence should take to accomplish thy desire, than by
   pulling from under thy head, that soft pillow of creature-delights, on
   which thou rested before? And yet you fret at this, peevish child, how
   dost thou exercise thy father's patience? If he delay to answer thy
   prayers, thou art ready to say he regards thee not; if he do that which
   really answers the scope and main end of them, but not in the way thou
   expected, thou quarrelleth with him for that; as if instead of
   answering, he were crossing all thy hopes and aims; is this ingenuous?
   is it not enough that God is so gracious to do what thou desirest, but
   thou must be so impudent to expect him to do it in the way which thou
   prescribest?

   Help 7. Again, it may stay thy heart, if thou consider, That in these
   troubles, God is about that work, which, if thou didst see the design
   of, thy soul would rejoice. We, poor creatures, are bemisted with much
   ignorance, and are not able to discern how particular providences work
   towards God's end; and therefore, like Israel in the wilderness, are
   often murmuring, because providence leads us about in a howling desert,
   where we are exposed to straits; though yet, then he led them, and is
   now leading us, by the right way to a city of habitations. If you could
   but see how God, in his secret counsel, has exactly laid the whole plot
   and design of thy salvation, even to the smallest means and
   circumstances; this way, and by these means, such a one shall be saved,
   and by no other; such a number of afflictions I appoint for this man,
   at this time, and in this order; they shall befal him thus, and thus
   they shall work for him. Could you, I say, but discern the admirable
   harmony of divine dispensations, their mutual relations to each other,
   together with the general respect and influence they all have into the
   last end; of all the conditions in the world, you would choose that you
   are now in, had you liberty to make your own choice. Providence is like
   a curious piece of arras, made of a thousand shreds, which single we
   know not what to make of, but put together, and stitched up orderly,
   they represent a beautiful history to the eye. As God works all things
   according to the counsel of his own will, so that counsel of God hath
   ordained this as the best way to bring about thy salvation: such a one
   hath a proud heart, so many humbling providences I appoint for him;
   such a one an earthly heart, so many impoverishing providences for him:
   did you but see this, I need say no more to support the most dejected
   heart.

   Help 8. Further, it would much conduce to the settlement of your
   hearts, to consider, That by fretting and discontent, you do yourselves
   more injury than all the afflictions you lie under could do; your own
   discontent is that which arms your troubles with a sting, it is you
   that makes your burden heavy, by struggling under it. Could you but lie
   quiet under the hand of God, your condition would be much more easier
   and sweeter than it is; Impatiens aegrotus crudelem facit medicum. This
   makes God lay on more strokes, as a father will upon a stubborn child
   that receives not correction.

   Besides, it unfits the soul to pray over its troubles, or take in the
   sense of that good which God intends by them: affliction is a pill,
   which being wrapped up in patience and quiet submission, may be easily
   swallowed; but discontent chews the pill, and so imbitters the soul:
   God throws away some comfort which he saw would hurt you, and you will
   throw away your peace after it: he shoots an arrow which sticks in your
   clothes, and was never intended to hurt, but only to fright you from
   sin, and you will thrust it onward to the piercing of your very hearts,
   by despondency and discontent.

   Help 9. Lastly, if all this will not do, but thy heart (like Rachel)
   still refuses to be comforted, or quieted, then consider one thing
   more, which, if seriously pondered, will doubtless do the work; and
   that is this, Compare the condition thou art now in, (and art so much
   dissatisfied with) with that condition others are, and thyself
   deservest to be in: others are roaring in flames, howling under the
   scourge of vengeance, and amongst them I deserve to be. O my soul! is
   this hell? Is my condition as bad as the damned? O what would thousands
   now in hell give, to change conditions with me! It is a famous instance
   which Dr. Taylor gives us of the duke of Conde; I have read (saith he)
   that when the duke of Conde had entered voluntarily into the
   incommodities of a religious poverty, he was one day espied and pitied
   by a lord of Italy, who out of tenderness wished him to be more careful
   and nutritive of his person. The good duke answered, Sir, be not
   troubled, and think not that I am ill provided of conveniences, for I
   send an harbinger before me, who makes ready my lodgings, and takes
   care that I be royally entertained. The lord asked him who was his
   Harbinger? He answered, The knowledge of myself, and the consideration
   of what I deserve for my sins, which is eternal torments; and when with
   this knowledge I arrive at my lodging, how unprovided soever I find it,
   methinks it is ever better than I deserve. Why doth the living man
   complain? And thus the heart may be kept from desponding or repining
   under adversity.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                  THIRD SEASON

HOW TO KEEP THE HEART IN TIME

OF ZION'S TROUBLES

   "The third season calling for more than ordinary diligence to keep the
   heart, is the time of Zion's troubles: when the Church, like the ship
   in which Christ and his disciples were, is oppressed and ready to
   perish in the waves of persecution; then good souls are ready to sink,
   and be shipwrecked too, upon the billows of their own fears. I confess
   most men rather need the spur, than the reins in this case, and yet
   some sit down as overweighed with the sense of the church's troubles.
   The loss of the Ark cost old Eli his life; the sad posture Jerusalem
   lay in, made good Nehemiah's countenance change in the midst of all the
   pleasures and accommodations of the court, Neh. ii. 2. Ah! this goes
   close to honest hearts,

   "But though God allow, yea, command the most awakened apprehensions of
   these calamities, and in such a day calls to mourning, weeping, and
   girding with sackcloth, Isa. xxii. 12, and severely threatens the
   insensible, Amos vi. 1, yet it will not please him to see you sit like
   pensive Elijah under the juniper tree. Ah Lord God! it is enough, take
   away my life also, 1 Kings xix. 4. No, mourners in Zion, you may, and
   ought to be; but self-tormentors you must not be: complain to God you
   may, but to complain of God (though but by an unsuitable carriage and
   the language of your actions) you must not."

   Case 3. The third case that comes next to be spoken to, is this, How
   public and tender hearts may be relieved and supported when they are
   even overweighed with the burthensome sense of Zion's troubles. "I
   grant, it is hard for him that preferreth Zion to his chief joy, to
   keep his heart that it sink not below the due sense of its troubles;
   and yet this ought and may be done by the use of such
   heart-establishing directions as these."

   Direction 1. Settle this great truth in your hearts, that no trouble
   befals Zion, but by the permission of Zion's God; and he permits
   nothing out of which he will not bring much good to his people.

   There is as truly a principle of quietness in the permitting, as in the
   commanding will of God. See it in David, 2 Sam. xvi. 10, Let him alone,
   it may be God hath bidden him: And in Christ, John xix. 11, Thou
   couldst have no power against me, except it were given thee from above;
   it should much calm our spirits that it is the will of God to suffer
   it; and had he not suffered it, it could never have been as it is.

   This very consideration quieted Job, Eli, David, and Hezekiah; that the
   Lord did it, was enough to them, and why should it not be so to us? If
   the Lord will have Zion ploughed as a field, and her goodly stones lay
   in the dust; if it be his pleasure that Antichrist shall rage yet
   longer, and wear out the saints of the most High; if it be his will
   that a day of trouble, and of treading down, and of perplexity by the
   Lord God of hosts shall be upon the valley of vision, that the wicked
   shall devour the man that is more righteous than he, what are we that
   we should contest with God? Fit it is that we should be resigned up to
   that will whence we proceeded, and that he that made us should dispose
   of us as he pleaseth; he may do what seemeth him good without our
   consent: doth poor man stand upon equal ground, that he should
   capitulate with his creator, or that God should render him an account
   of any of his matters? It is every way as reasonable we be content,
   however God dispose of us, as that we be obedient to whatever he
   commands us.

   But then, if we pursue this argument further, by considering that God's
   permission do all meet at last in the real good of his people, this
   will much more quiet our spirits. Do the enemies carry away the good
   figs, even the best among the people, into captivity? This looks like a
   sad providence, but yet God sends them thither for their good, Jer.
   xxiv. 5. Doth God take the Assyrian as a staff in his hand to beat his
   people with? Those blows are smart, and make them cry; but the end of
   his so doing is, That he may accomplish his whole work upon Mount Zion,
   Isa. x. 12. If God can bring much good out of the worst and greatest
   evil of sin, much more out of temporal afflictions; and it is as
   evident that he will, as that he can do so. For it is inconsistent with
   the wisdom of a common agent to permit any thing (which he might
   prevent if he pleased) to cross his great design and end; and can it be
   imagined that the most wise God should do so?

   Well then, as Luther said to Melancthon, Desinat Philipus esse rector
   mundi; so say I to you; let infinite wisdom, power and love alone; for
   by these all creatures are swayed, and all actions guided, in reference
   to the church: it is none of our work to rule the world, but to submit
   to him that doth; Non caeco impetu volvuntur rotae; the motions of
   providence are all judicious, the wheels are full of eyes: it is enough
   that the affairs of Zion are in a good hand.

   Direction 2. Ponder this heart-supporting truth, in reference to Zion's
   troubles: That how many troubles soever are upon her, yet her King is
   in her.

   What? hath the Lord forsaken his churches? hath he sold them into the
   enemy's hand? doth he not regard what evil befals them? that our hearts
   sink at this rate? Is it not too shameful an undervaluing of the great
   God, and too much magnifying of poor impotent men, to fear and tremble
   at creatures, whilst God is in the midst of us? The church's enemies
   are many and mighty; let that be granted, yet that argument with which
   Caleb and Joshua strove to raise their own hearts, is of as much force
   now as it was then: The Lord is with us, fear them not, Num. xiv. 9.
   The historian tells us, that when Antigonus overheard his soldiers
   reckoning how many their enemies were, and so discouraging one another,
   he suddenly steps in among them with this question, And how many (said
   he) do you reckon me for? Discouraged souls, how many do you reckon on
   the Lord for? Is he not an overmatch for all his enemies? Is not one
   Almighty more than many mighties? Doth his presence stand for nothing
   with us? If God be for us, who can be against us? Rom. viii. 31. What
   think you was the reason of that great exploration Gideon made in
   Judges vi.? He questions, ver. 12, 13, he desires a sign, ver. 17, and
   after that another, ver. 36; and what was the end of all this? but that
   he might be sure the Lord was with him, and that he might but write
   this motto upon his ensign? The sword of the Lord, and of Gideon. So
   then, if you can be well assured the Lord is with his people, you will
   get thereby above all his discouragements: and that he is so, you need
   not (with him) desire a sign from heaven; lo you have a sign before
   you, even their marvellous preservation amidst all their enemies. If
   God be not with his people, how is it that they are not swallowed up
   quick? Do their enemies want malice, power, or opportunity? No, but
   there is an invisible hand upon them. Well then, as it is, Exod.
   xxxiii. 14, let his presence give us rest; and though the mountains be
   hurled into the sea, though heaven and earth mingle together, fear not,
   God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved.

   Direction 3. Ponder the great advantages attending the people of God in
   an afflicted condition. If a low and an afflicted state in the world be
   really best for the church, then your dejections are not only
   irrational but ungrateful: indeed, if you estimate the happiness of the
   church by its worldly ease, splendor and prosperity, then such times
   will seem bad for it, but if you reckon its glory to consist in its
   humility, faith, patience and heavenly-mindedness, no condition in the
   world abounds so with advantages for these, as an afflicted condition
   doth. It was not persecutions and prisons, but worldliness and
   wantonness, that was the prison of the church; neither was it the
   earthly glory of its professors, but the blood of its martyrs, that was
   the seed of the church. The power of Godliness did never thrive better
   than in affliction, and never ran lower than in times of greatest
   prosperity: when we are left a poor and an afflicted people, then we
   learn to trust in the name of the Lord, Zeph. iii. 12. What say ye,
   sirs? Is it indeed for the saint's advantage to be weaned from the love
   of, and delight in, ensnaring worldly vanities? To be quickened, and
   pressed forward with more haste to heaven, to have clearer discoveries
   of their own hearts, to be taught to pray more fervently, frequently,
   spiritually; to look and long for the rest to come more ardently? If
   these be for their advantage, experience teaches us that no condition
   is ordinarily blessed with such fruits as these, like an afflicted
   condition.

   And is it well done, then, to repine and droop, because your Father
   consults more the advantage of your souls, than the pleasing of your
   humours? Because he will bring you a nearer way to heaven than you are
   willing to go? Is this a due requital of his love, who is pleased so
   much to concern himself in your welfare? Which is more than he will do
   for thousands in the world, upon whom he will not lay a rod, or send an
   affliction for their good, Hos. iv. 17, Mat. xv. 14. But alas! we judge
   by sense, and reckon things good or evil, according to what we, for the
   present, can taste and feel in them.

   Direction 4. Take heed that you overlook not the many precious mercies
   which the people of God enjoy amidst all their trouble.

   It is a pity that our tears, upon the account of our troubles, should
   so blear and blind our eyes, that we should not see our mercies and
   grounds of comfort. I will not insist upon the mercy of having your
   lives given you for a prey, nor yet upon the many outward comforts,
   temporal conveniences and accommodations, which you enjoy even above
   what Christ and his precious servants, of whom the world was not
   worthy, ever had.

   But what say you to pardon of sin? interest in Christ? the covenant
   promise? and an eternity of happiness in the presence of God after a
   few days are over? O that ever a people entitled to such mercies as
   these, should droop under any temporal affliction, or be so much
   concerned for the frowns of men, and the loss of trifles! You have not
   the smiles of great men, but you have the favour of the great God; you
   are, it may be, cast back in your estates, but thereby furthered in
   spirituals. You cannot live so bravely, plentifully, and easily as
   before; but still you may live as holy and heavenly as ever: will you
   then grieve so much for these circumstantials, as to forget your
   substantials? Shall light troubles make you forget weighty mercies?
   remember, the church's true riches are laid out of the reach of all its
   enemies: they may make you poor, but not miserable. What though God do
   not distinguish in his outward dispensations between his own and
   others? Yea, what though his judgments single out the best, and spare
   the worst? What though an Abel be killed in love, and a Cain survive in
   hatred; a bloody Dionysius die in his bed, and a good Josiah fall in
   battle? What though the belly of the wicked be filled with hidden
   treasures, and the teeth of the saints broken with gravel-stones; yet
   still here is much matter of praise? For electing love hath
   distinguished, though common providence did not; and whilst prosperity
   and impunity slay the wicked, even slaying and adversity shall benefit
   and save the righteous.

   Direction 5. Believe that how low soever the church be plunged under
   the waters of adversity, it shall assuredly rise again.--Fear not, for
   as sure as Christ arose the third day, notwithstanding the seal and
   watch that was upon him; so sure the church shall arise out of all her
   troubles, and lift up its victorious head over all its enemies: there
   is no fear of ruin in that people who thrive by their losses, and
   multiply by being diminished. O be not too quick to bury the church
   before she is dead! stay till Christ hath tried his skill, before you
   give it up for lost. The bush may be all in a flame, but shall never be
   consumed, and that because of the good will of Him that dwelleth in it.

   Direction 6. Record the famous instances of God's care and tenderness
   over his people in former straits. Christ hath not suffered it to be
   devoured yet; for above these 1600 years the Christian church hath
   lived in affliction, and yet it is not consumed: many a wave of
   persecution hath gone over it, and yet it is not drowned: many designs
   to ruin it, and hitherto none hath prospered; this is not the first
   time that Hamans and Ahithophels have plotted its ruin; that an Herod
   hath stretched out his hand to vex it; still it hath been preserved
   from, supported under, or delivered out of all its troubles; and is it
   not as dear to God as ever? Is he not as able to save it now as
   formerly?--Though we know not whence deliverance should arise, Yet the
   Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations, 2 Pet. ii. 9.

   Direction 7. If you can fetch no comfort from any of the former
   arguments, then, in the last place, Try whether you cannot draw some
   comfort out of your very trouble. Surely this trouble of yours is a
   good argument of your integrity; union is the ground of sympathy; if
   you had not some rich adventure in that ship, you would not tremble as
   you do when it is in danger; besides, this frame of spirit may afford
   you this argument, that if you are so sensible of the church's
   troubles, Jesus Christ is much more sensible of, and solicitous about
   it, than you can be; and he will have an eye of favour upon them that
   mourn for it, Isa. lvii. 18.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                 FOURTH SEASON

HOW TO KEEP THE HEART FROM

FEARS IN TIME OF DANGERS

   "The fourth special season of expressing our utmost diligence in
   keeping our hearts, is the time of danger and public distraction; in
   such times the best hearts are but too apt to be surprised by slavish
   fear; it is not easy to secure the heart against distractions in times
   of common destruction. If Syria be confederate with Ephraim, how do the
   hearts of the house of David shake, even as the trees of the wood which
   are shaken with the wind? Isa. vii. 2. When there are ominous signs in
   the heavens; on the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea
   and the waves roaring; then the hearts of men fail for fear, and for
   looking after those things which are coming on the earth, Luke xxi. 25,
   26, even a Paul himself may sometimes complain of fightings within,
   when there are fears without, 2 Cor. vii. 5.

   But, my brethren, these things ought not so to be; saints should be of
   a more raised spirit: so was David, when his heart was kept in a good
   frame. The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The
   Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? Psal.
   xxvii. 1. Let none but the servants of sin be the slaves of fear, let
   them that have delighted in evil, fear evil; impius tantum metuit,
   quantum nocuit. O let not that which God hath threatened as a judgment
   upon the wicked, ever seize upon the breasts of the righteous. I will
   send (saith God) faintness into their hearts in the land of their
   enemies, and the sound of a shaking leaf shall chase them, Lev. xxvi.
   36. O what poor spirited men are these, to fly at a shaking leaf! which
   makes a pleasant not a terrible noise; and is in itself a kind of
   natural music: but to a guilty conscience the whistling leaves are
   drums and trumpets. But God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but
   of love, and of a sound mind, 2 Tim. i. 7. A sound mind, as it stands
   there in opposition to the spirit of fear, is an unwounded conscience,
   not infirmed by guilt: and this should make a man as bold as a lion. I
   know it cannot be said of a saint, what God said of Leviathan, that he
   was made without fear: there is a natural fear in every man, and it is
   as impossible to be wholly put off, as the body itself is: It is
   perturbation of the mind, rising from the apprehension of approaching
   danger; and as long as dangers can approach us, we shall find some
   perturbations within us. It is not my purpose to commend to you a
   stoical apathy, nor yet to take you off from such a degree of cautional
   preventive fear as may fit you for trouble, and be serviceable to your
   souls; there is a provident fear, that opens our eyes to foresee
   danger, and quickens to a prudent and lawful use of means to prevent
   it: such was Jacob's fear, Gen. xxxii. 7, 9, 10, &c. But it is the fear
   of diffidence I persuade you to keep your heart from, that tyrannical
   passion which invades the heart in times of danger, distracts, weakens
   and unfits the heart for duty; drives men upon unlawful means, and
   brings a snare with it. Well then, the fourth case will be this:

   Case 4. How a Christian may keep his heart from distracting and
   tormenting fears in times of great and threatening dangers.

   Now there are fourteen excellent rules, or helps, for the keeping of
   the heart from sinful fear when imminent dangers threaten us; and the
   first is this;

   Rule 1. Look upon all the creatures as in the hand of God, who manages
   them in all their motions; limiting, restraining, and determining them
   all at his pleasure.

   Get this great truth well settled by faith in your hearts: it will
   marvellously guard them against slavish fears. The first chapter of
   Ezekiel contains an admirable scheme or draught of providence; there
   you may see the living creatures who move the wheels, viz. the great
   affairs and turnings of things here below, coming unto Christ, who sits
   upon the throne, to receive new orders and instructions from him, v.
   24, 25, 26. And in Rev. vi. you read of white, black, and red horses,
   which are nothing else but the instruments which God employs in
   executing his judgments in the world, as wars, pestilence and death;
   but when these horses are prancing, and trampling up and down the
   world, here is that may quiet our hearts, that God hath the reins in
   his hand. Wicked men are sometimes like mad horses, they would stamp
   the people of God under their feet, but that the bridle of providence
   is in their lips, Job i. 11, 12. A lion at liberty is terrible to meet;
   but who is afraid of a lion in the keeper's hand?

   Rule 2. Remember that this God, in whose hand all the creatures are, is
   your father, and is much more tender over you, than you are or can be
   over yourselves: He that toucheth you, toucheth the apple of mine eye,
   Zech. ii. 8. Let me ask the most timorous woman, whether there be not a
   vast difference between the sight of a drawn sword in the hand of a
   bloody ruffian, and the same sword in the hand of her own tender
   husband? As great a difference there is in looking upon creatures by an
   eye of sense, and looking on them as in the hand of your God by an eye
   of faith; That is a sweet scripture to this purpose, Isa. liv. 5, Thy
   Maker is thy husband, the Lord of hosts is his name; he is Lord of all
   the hosts of creatures in the world: who would be afraid to pass
   through an army, though all the soldiers should turn their swords and
   guns towards him, if the general of that army were his friend or
   father? I have met with an excellent story of a religious young man,
   who being at sea with many other passengers in a great storm, and they
   being half dead with fear, he only was observed to be very cheerful, as
   if he had been but little concerned in that danger: one of them
   demanding the reason of his cheerfulness, O, said he, it is because the
   pilot of the ship is my father. Consider Christ, first as the King and
   supreme Lord over the providential kingdom, and then as your Head,
   Husband and Friend, and thou wilt quickly say, Return unto thy rest, O
   my soul. This truth will make you cease trembling, and cause you to
   sing in the midst of dangers, Psal. xlvii. 7. The Lord is King of all
   the earth, sing ye praise with understanding, or, as the Hebrew word
   is, every one that hath understanding, viz. of this heart-reviving and
   establishing doctrine of the dominion of our father over all the
   creatures.

   Rule 3. Urge upon your hearts the express prohibitions of Christ in
   this case; and let your hearts stand in awe of the violations of them.

   He hath charged you not to fear, Luke xxi. 9. When ye shall hear of
   wars and commotions, see that ye be not terrified, and Phil. i. 28, In
   nothing be terrified by your adversaries: Yea, in Mat. x. 26, 28, 31.
   and within the compass of six verses, our Saviour commands us thrice,
   not to fear man. Doth every big word of proud dust and ashes make thee
   afraid? Doth the voice of a man make thee tremble, and shall not the
   voice of God? If thou art of such a fearful and timorous spirit, how is
   it that thou feareth not to disobey the direct commands of Jesus
   Christ? Methinks the command of Christ should have as much power to
   calm, as the voice of a poor worm to terrify thy heart. I, even I, am
   he that comforteth you: who art thou, that thou shouldst be afraid of a
   man that shall die, and of the son of man that shall be made as the
   grass, and forgettest the Lord thy Maker? Isa. li. 12, 13. We cannot
   fear creatures sinfully, till we have forgotten God; did we remember
   what he is, and what he hath said, we should not be of such feeble
   spirits. Bring thy heart then to this dilemma in times of danger; if I
   let into my heart the slavish fear of man, I must let out the
   reverential awe and fear of God; and dare I cast off the fear of the
   Almighty, for the frowns of a man? Shall I lift up proud dust above the
   great God? Shall I run upon a certain sin, to shun a probable danger?
   Oh keep thy heart by this consideration.

   Rule 4. Remember how much needless trouble your vain fears have brought
   upon you formerly, and how you have disquieted yourselves to no
   purpose.

   And hast feared continually because of the oppressor, as if he were
   ready to devour; and where is the fury of the oppressor? Isa. li. 13.
   He seemed ready to devour, but yet you are not devoured: I have not
   brought upon you the thing that ye feared; you have wasted your
   spirits, disordered your souls, and weakened your hands, and all this
   to no purpose: you might all this while enjoyed your peace, and
   possessed your souls in patience. And here I cannot but observe a very
   deep policy of Satan managing a design against the soul by these vain
   fears: I call them vain, in regard of the frustration of them by
   providence; but certainly they are not in vain, as the end Satan aims
   at in raising them; for herein he acts as soldiers use to do in the
   siege of a garrison, who on purpose to wear out the besieged by
   constant watchings, and thereby unfit them to make resistance, when
   they storm it in earnest, do every night give them false alarms, which
   though they come to nothing, yet do notably serve this further design
   of the enemy. O when will you beware of Satan's devices!

   Rule 5. Consider solemnly, that though the things you fear should
   really fall out, yet there is more evil in your own fear, than in the
   things feared.

   And that not only as the least evil of sin, is worse than the greatest
   evil of suffering; but as this sinful fear has really more torment and
   trouble in it, than is in that condition you are so much afraid of.
   Fear is both a multiplying and a tormenting passion; it represents
   troubles much greater than they are, and so tortures and wrecks the
   soul much worse more than when the suffering itself comes. So it was
   with Israel at the Red Sea; they cried out, and were sore afraid till
   they put foot into the water, and then a passage was opened through
   those waters, which they thought would have drowned them. Thus it is
   with us; we, looking through the glass of carnal fear upon the waters
   of troubles, the swellings of Jordan, cry out, O they are unfordable!
   we must needs perish in them: but when we come into the midst of those
   floods indeed, we find the promise made good; God will make a way to
   escape, 1 Cor. x. 13. Thus it was with blessed Bilney, when he would
   make a trial, by putting his finger to the candle, and not able to
   endure that, he cried out, what, cannot I bear the burning of a finger?
   How then shall I be able to bear the burning of my whole body
   to-morrow? and yet when that morrow came, he could go cheerfully into
   the flames, with that scripture in his mouth, Fear not, for I have
   redeemed thee; I have called thee by thy name, thou art mine; when thou
   passest through the waters, I will be with thee; when thou walkest
   through the fire, thou shalt not be burnt,Isa. xliii. 1, 2, 3.

   Rule 6. Consult the many precious promises which are written for your
   support and comfort in all dangers.

   These are your refuges to which you may fly and be safe: When the
   arrows of danger fly by night, and destruction wasteth at noon-day.
   There are particular promises suited to particular cases and
   exigencies; and there are general promises, reaching all cases and
   conditions: such are these, Rom. viii. 28, All things work together for
   good, &c. and Eccl. viii. 12, Though a sinner do evil an hundred times,
   and his days be prolonged, yet it shall be well with them that fear the
   Lord, &c. Could you but believe the promises, your hearts should be
   established, 2 Chron. xx. 29. Could you but plead them with God, as
   Jacob did, Thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, &c. Gen. xxxii. 12,
   they would relieve you in every distress.

   Objection. But that promise was made personally, and by name to him, so
   are not these to me.

   Answer. If Jacob's God be your God, you have as good an interest in
   them as he had. The church, a thousand years after that transaction
   between God and Jacob, applied that which God spake to him, as if it
   had been spoken to themselves, He found him in Bethel, and there he
   spake with us, Hos. xii. 4.

   Rule 7. Quiet your trembling hearts by recording and consulting your
   past experiences of the care and faithfulness of God in former
   distresses.

   These experiences are food for your faith in a wilderness condition,
   Psal. lxxiv. 14. By this David kept his heart in time of danger, 1 Sam.
   xvii. 37, and Paul his, 2 Cor. i. 10. It was sweetly answered by
   Silentiarius, when one told him that his enemies waylayed him to take
   away his life, Si Deus mei curam non habet, quid vio? If God take no
   care of me, how have I escaped hitherto? You may plead with God old
   experiences to procure new ones; for it is in pleading with God for new
   deliverances, as it is in pleading for new pardons. Now mark how Moses
   pleads on that account with God, Pardon, I beseech thee, the iniquity
   of this people, as thou hast forgiven them from Egypt until now, Numb.
   xiv. 19. He doth not say as men do, Lord, this is the first fault, thou
   hast not been troubled before to sign this pardon: but, Lord, because
   thou hast pardoned them so often, I beseech thee pardon them once
   again. So in new straits, Lord, thou hast often heard, helped and
   saved, in former fears; therefore now help again, for with thee there
   is plenteous redemption, and thine arm is not shortened.

   Rule 8. Be well satisfied that you are in the way of your duty, and
   that will beget holy courage in times of danger.

   Who will harm you, if you be followers of that which is good? 1 Pet.
   iii. 13. Or if any dare attempt it, you may boldly commit yourselves to
   God in well doing, 1 Pet. iv. 19. It was this consideration that raised
   Luther's spirit above all fear: in the cause of God (said he) I ever
   am, and ever shall be stout; herein I assume this title, Cedo nulli [2]
   . A good cause will bear up a man's spirit bravely. Hear the saying of
   a Heathen, to the shame of cowardly Christians: "When the emperor
   Vespasian had commanded Fluidius Priscus not to come to the senate, or
   if he did, to speak nothing but what he would have him; the senator
   returned this noble answer, That as he was a senator, it was fit he
   should be at the senate; and if being there he were required to give
   his advice, he would speak freely that which his conscience commanded
   him; the emperor threatening that then he should die; he answered, Did
   I ever tell you that I was immortal? Do what you will, and I will do
   what I ought; it is in your power to put me to death unjustly, and in
   me to die consistently."

   Righteousness is a breast-plate: the cause of God will pay all your
   expenses; let them tremble whom danger finds out of the way of duty.

   Rule 9. Get your consciences sprinkled with the blood of Christ from
   all guilt, and that will set your hearts above all fear.

   It is guilt upon the conscience that softens and cowardizes our
   spirits; The righteous are bold as a lion, Prov. xxviii. 1. It was
   guilt in Cain's conscience that made him cry, Every one that meets me
   will slay me, Gen. iv. 14. A guilty conscience is more terrified with
   conceited dangers, than a pure conscience is with real ones. A guilty
   sinner carries a witness against himself in his own bosom. It was
   guilty Herod cried out, John Baptist is risen from the dead. Such a
   conscience is the devil's anvil, on which he fabricates all those
   swords and spears, with which the guilty sinner pierces and wounds
   himself; guilt is to danger, what fire is to gunpowder; a man need not
   fear to walk among many barrels of powder if he have no fire about him.

   Rule 10. Exercise holy trust, in times of great distress.

   Make it your business to trust God with your lives and comforts, and
   then your hearts will be at rest about them. So did David, Psal. lvi.
   3, At what time I am afraid, I will trust in thee; q. d. Lord, if at
   any time a storm rise, I will make bold to shelter from it under the
   covert of thy wings. Go to God by acts of faith and trust, and never
   doubt but he will secure you. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace,
   whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee, Isa. xxvi.
   3. God takes it well when thou comest to him thus; Father, my life, my
   liberty, or estate, are hunted after, and I cannot secure them; O let
   me leave them in thy hand: The poor leaveth himself with thee; and doth
   his God fail him? No, thou art the helper of the fatherless, Psal. x.
   14, that is, thou art the helper of the destitute one, that hath none
   to go to but God. And that is a sweet scripture, He shall not be afraid
   of evil tidings, his heart is fixed, trusting in the Lord, Psal. cxii.
   7; he doth not say, his ear shall be privileged from the report of evil
   tidings, he may hear as sad tidings as other men, but his heart shall
   be privileged from the terror of those tidings, his heart is fixed.

   Rule 11. Consult the honour of religion more, and your personal safety
   less.

   Is it for the honor of religion, (think you) that Christians should be
   as timorous as hares, to start at every sound? Will not this tempt the
   world to think, that whatever you talk, yet your principles are no
   better than other men's? O what mischief may the discoveries of your
   fears before them do! It was a noble saying of Nehemiah, chap. vi. 11,
   Should such a man as I fly? And who, being as I am would fly? Were it
   not better you should die, than that the world should be prejudiced
   against Christ by your example? For, alas! how apt is the world (who
   judge more by what they see in your practices, than by what they
   understand of your principles) to conclude from your timorousness, that
   how much soever you commend faith, and talk of assurance, yet you dare
   trust to these things no more than they, when it comes to the trial. O
   let not your fears lay such a stumbling-block before the blind world.

   Rule 12. He that will secure his heart from fear, must first secure the
   eternal interest of his soul in the hands of Jesus Christ.

   When this is done, then you may say, Now world do thy worst. You will
   not be very solicitous about a vile body, when you are once assured it
   shall be well to all eternity with your precious souls. Fear not them
   (saith Christ) that can kill the body, and after that have no more that
   they can do. The assured Christian may smile with contempt upon all his
   enemies, and say, Is this the worst that you can do? What say you,
   Christians? Are you assured that your souls are safe: that within a few
   moments of your dissolution they shall be received by Christ into an
   everlasting habitation? Well, if you be sure of that, never trouble
   yourselves about the instruments and means of your dissolution.

   Objection. O, but a violent death is terrible to nature!

   Answer. But what matter is it, when thy soul is in heaven, whether it
   were let out at thy mouth, or at thy throat? whether thy familiar
   friends or barbarous enemies stand about thy dead body, and close thine
   eyes? Alas! it is not worth the making so much ado about; Nihil corpus
   sentit in nervo cum anima fit in caelo, thy soul shall not be sensible
   in heaven how thy body is used on earth; no, it shall be swallowed up
   in life.

   Rule 13. Learn to quench all slavish creature-fears in the reverential
   fear of God.

   This is a cure by diversion: It is a rare piece of Christian wisdom to
   turn those passions of the soul which most predominate, to spiritual
   channels; to turn natural anger into spiritual zeal, natural mirth into
   holy cheerfulness, and natural fear into an holy dread and awe of God.
   This method of cure Christ prescribes in that forementioned place, Mat.
   x. like to which is that in Isa. viii. 12, 13, Fear not their fear; but
   how shall we help it? Why, sanctify the Lord of hosts himself, and let
   him be your fear and dread. Natural fear may be allayed for the present
   by natural reason, or the removal of the occasion, but then it is but
   like a candle blown out with a puff of breath, which is easily blown in
   again; but if the fear of God extinguish it, then it is like a candle
   quenched in water, which cannot easily be rekindled.

   Rule 14. Lastly, Pour out those fears to God in prayer, which the devil
   and your own unbelief pour in upon you in times of danger.

   Prayer is the best outlet to fear; where is the Christian that cannot
   set his probatum est to this direction? I will give you the greatest
   example in the world to encourage you in the use of it, even the
   example of Jesus Christ. When the hour of his danger and death drew
   nigh, he gets into the garden, separates from the disciples, and there
   wrestles mightily with God in prayer, even unto an agony, Mark xiv. 32:
   in reference to which the Apostle saith, Who in the days of his flesh,
   when he had offered up prayers and supplications, with strong cries and
   tears, to him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in
   that he feared, Heb. v. 7. He was heard as to strength and support to
   carry him through it, though not as to deliverance, or exemption from
   it.

   Now, O that these things might abide with you, and be reduced to
   practice in these evil days, that many trembling souls may be
   established by them.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2] I yield to none
     __________________________________________________________________

                                  FIFTH SEASON

HOW A CHRISTIAN MAY KEEP HIS

HEART FROM REPINING

   "The fifth season to excite this diligence in keeping the heart, is the
   time of straits and outward pinching wants; although at such times we
   should complain to God, and not of God (the throne of grace being
   erected for a time of need, Heb. iv. 16) yet when the waters of relief
   run low, and wants begin to pinch hard, how prone are the best hearts
   to distrust the fountain! when the meal in the barrel and the oil in
   the cruse are almost spent, our faith and patience are almost spent
   too. Now it is difficult to keep down the proud and unbelieving heart
   in an holy quietude and sweet submission at the foot of God. It is an
   easy thing to talk of trusting God for daily bread, while we have a
   full barn or purse; but to say, as the prophet, Though the fig tree
   should not blossom, neither fruit be in the vine, &c. yet I will
   rejoice in the Lord, Hab. iii. 17. Surely this is not easy." The fifth
   case therefore shall be this.

   Case 5. How a Christian may keep his heart from distrusting God, or
   repining against him, when outward wants are either felt or feared.

   This case deserves to be seriously pondered, and especially to be
   studied now, since it seems to be the design of providence to empty the
   people of God of their creature-fulness, and acquaint them with those
   straits which hitherto they have been altogether strangers to.

   Now, to secure the heart from the before-mentioned dangers attending
   this condition, these following considerations, through the blessings
   of the spirit, may prove effectual. And the first is this,

   Consideration 1. That if God reduce you to straits and necessities, yet
   he deals no otherwise therein with you, than he hath done with some of
   the choicest and holiest men that ever lived.

   Your condition is not singular; though you have hitherto been strangers
   to wants, other saints have daily conversed and been familiarly
   acquainted with them. Hear what blessed Paul speaks, not of himself
   only, but in the names of other saints reduced to like exigencies. Even
   to this present hour we both hunger and thirst, and are naked and
   buffeted, and have no certain dwelling-place, 1 Cor. iv. 11. To see
   such a man as Paul going up and down the world with a naked back, and
   empty belly, and not a house to put his head in, one that was so far
   above thee in grace and holiness, one that did more service for God in
   a day, than perhaps thou hast done in all thy days; and yet thou repine
   as if hardly dealt with! have you forgot what necessities and straits
   even a David hath suffered? How great were his straits and necessities?
   Give I pray thee (saith he to Nabal) whatsoever cometh to thy hand, to
   thy servants, and to thy son David, 1 Sam. xxv. 8. Renowned Musculus
   was forced to dig in the town ditch for a maintenance. Famous Ainsworth
   (as I have been credibly informed) was forced to sell the bed he lay on
   to buy bread. But why speak I of these? Behold a greater than any of
   them, even the Son of God, who is the heir of all things, and by whom
   the worlds were made, yet sometimes would have been glad of any thing,
   having nothing to eat, And on the morrow, when they were come from
   Bethany, he was hungry; and seeing a fig-tree afar off, having leaves,
   he came if happily he might find [any thing] thereon. Mark xi. 12.

   Well then, hereby God hath set no mark of hatred upon you, neither can
   you infer the want of love from want of bread.--When thy repining heart
   puts the question, was there ever any sorrow like unto mine? Ask these
   worthies, and they will tell thee, though they did not complain and
   fret as thou dost, yet they were driven to as great straits as thou
   art.

   Consid. 2. If God leave you not in this necessitous condition without a
   promise, you have no reason to repine or despond under it.

   That is a sad condition indeed, to which no promise belongs. I remember
   Mr. Calvin upon those words, Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such
   as was in her vexation, &c. Isa. ix. 1, solves the doubt in what sense
   the darkness of the captivity was not so great as the lesser incursions
   made by Tiglath Pileser. In the captivity the city was destroyed, and
   the temple burnt with fire, there was no comparison in the affliction;
   but yet the darkness should not be such, and the reason (saith he) is
   this, Hic certam permissionen esse additam, cum in prioribus nulla
   esset; i. e. there was a certain promise made to this, but none to the
   other.

   It is better to be as low as hell with a promise, than in paradise
   without one. Even the darkness of hell itself would be comparatively no
   darkness at all, were there but a promise to enlighten it. Now God hath
   left many sweet promises for the faith of his poor people to feed on in
   this condition, such are these: O fear the Lord, ye his saints, for
   there is no want to them that fear him: the lions do lack and suffer
   hunger, but they that fear the Lord shall want nothing that is good,
   Psal. xxxiv. 9, 10: The eye of the Lord is upon the righteous, to keep
   them alive in famine,Psal. xxxiii. 18, 19. No good thing will he
   withhold from them that walk uprightly, Psal. lxxxiv. 11. He that
   spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he
   not with him also freely give us all things? Rom. viii. 32. When the
   poor and the needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue
   faileth for thirst, I the Lord will hear them, I the God of Israel will
   not forsake them. Isa. xli. 17. Here you see, first, their extreme
   wants, water being put even for the necessaries of life. 2d, Their
   certain relief, I the Lord will hear them; in which it is supposed that
   they cry unto him in their straits; and he hears their cry.

   Having therefore these promises, why should not your distrustful hearts
   conclude like David's, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want? Psal.
   xxiii. 1.

   Objection. But these promises imply conditions; if they were absolute,
   they would afford more satisfaction.

   Solution. What are those tacit conditions you speak of, but these? 1st,
   That either he will supply or sanctify your wants: 2d, That you shall
   have so much as God sees fit for you. And doth this trouble you? Would
   you have the mercy, whether sanctified or no? Whether God sees it fit
   for you or no? Methinks the appetites of saints after earthly things
   should not be so ravenous, to seize greedily upon any enjoyment, not
   caring how they have it.

   But oh, when wants pinch, and we see not whence supplies should come,
   then our faith in the promise shakes, and we, like murmuring Israel,
   cry, He gave bread, can he give water also? O unbelieving hearts! When
   did his promise fail? Whoever trusted them and was ashamed? May not God
   upbraid thee with thine unreasonable infidelity, as Jer. ii. 31, Have I
   been a wilderness unto you? &c. Or as Christ said to his disciples,
   Since I was with you, lacked ye any thing? Yea, may you not upbraid
   yourselves, may you not say with good old Polycarp, Thus many years I
   have served Christ, and found him a good master? Indeed he may deny
   what your wantonness, but not what your real wants call for. He will
   not regard the cry of your lusts, nor yet despise the cry of your
   faith; though he will not indulge and humour your wanton appetites, yet
   he will not violate his own faithful promises. These promises are your
   best security for eternal life; and it is strange if they should not
   satisfy you for daily bread: remember ye the words of the Lord, and
   solace your hearts with them amidst all your wants. It is said of
   Epicurus, that in the dreadful fits of the cholic, he often refreshed
   himself, ob memoriam inventorum; by calling to mind his inventions in
   philosophy: and of Possidonius the philosopher, that in a great fit of
   the stone he solaced himself with discourses of moral virtue: and when
   the pain twinged him, he would say, Nihil agis dolor; quanvis sis
   molestus, nunquam confitebor te esse malum: O pain, thou dost nothing;
   though thou art a little troublesome, I will never confess thee to be
   evil. If upon such grounds as these they could support themselves under
   such grinding and racking pains, and even elude their diseases by them,
   how much rather should the precious promises of God, and the sweet
   experiences which have gone along step by step with them, make you to
   forget all your wants, and comfort you over every strait?

   Consid. 3. If it be bad now, it might have been worse; hath God denied
   thee the comforts of this life? He might have denied thee Christ, peace
   and pardon also, and then thy case had been woeful indeed. You know God
   hath done so to millions in the world: how many such wretched objects
   may your eyes behold every day, that have no comfort in hand, nor yet
   in hope, are miserable here, and will be so to eternity: that have a
   bitter cup, and nothing to sweeten it; no, not so much as any hope that
   it will be better. But it is not so with you, though you be poor in
   this world, Yet rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which God hath
   promised, Jam. ii. 5. O learn to set spiritual riches over against
   temporal poverty; balance all your present troubles with your spiritual
   privileges. Indeed if God had denied your souls the robe of
   righteousness to clothe them, the hidden manna to feed them, the
   heavenly mansions to receive them: if your souls were left destitute,
   as well as your bodies, you might well be pensive; but this
   consideration hath enough to bring the considering soul to rest under
   any outward strait. It was bravely said by Luther, when want began to
   pinch him, Let us be contented with our hard fare (said he) for do not
   we feast with angels upon Christ the bread of life? And blessed be God
   (said Paul) who hath abounded to us in all spiritual blessings, Ephes.
   i. 3.

   Consid. 4. This affliction, though great, is not such an affliction,
   but God hath far greater, with which he chastises the dearly beloved of
   his soul in this world; and should he remove this and inflict those,
   you would account your present state a very comfortable state, and
   bless God to be as now you are.

   What think ye, sirs? Should God remove your present troubles, supply
   all your outward wants, give you the desire of your hearts in
   creature-comforts, but hide his face from you, shoot his arrows into
   your souls, and cause the venom of them to drink up your spirits?
   Should he leave you but a few days to the buffeting of Satan, and his
   blasphemous injections: should he hold your eyes but a few nights
   waking with horrors of conscience, tossing to and fro till the dawning
   of the day: should he lead you through the chambers of death, show you
   visions of darkness? And make his terrors set themselves in array
   against you? Then tell me if you would not count it a choice mercy to
   be back again in your former necessitous condition, with peace of
   conscience; and count bread and water, with God's favour, a happy
   state? O then, take heed of repining. Say not God deals hardly with
   you, lest you provoke him to convince you, by your own sense and
   feeling, that he hath worse rods than these for unsubmissive and
   froward children.

   Consid. 5. If it be bad now it will be better shortly.

   O keep thy heart by that consideration: the meal in the barrel is
   almost spent; well, be it so, why should that trouble me, if I am
   almost beyond the need and use of all these things? The traveller hath
   spent almost all his money, but a shilling or two left: Well, saith he,
   though my money be almost spent, yet my journey is almost finished too;
   I am near home, and then shall be fully supplied. If there be no
   candles in the house, yet it is a comfort to think that it is almost
   day, and then there will be no need of candles. I am afraid, Christian,
   thou misreckonest thyself, when thou thinkest, my provision is almost
   spent, and you have a great way to travel; many years to live, and
   nothing to live upon; it may be not half so many as thou supposest: in
   this be confident, if thy provision be spent, either fresh supplies are
   coming (though thou seest not from whence) or thou art nearer thy
   journey's end than thou reckonest thyself to be. Desponding soul, doth
   it become a man or woman travelling upon the road to that heavenly
   city, and almost arrived there, within a few days journey of his
   Father's house, where all his wants shall be supplied, to talk on thus
   about a little meat, drink or clothes, which he fears he shall want by
   the way? It was a noble saying of the forty martyrs, famous in the
   ecclesiastical story, when turned out naked in a frosty night to be
   starved to death, with these words they comforted one another: The
   winter indeed is sharp and cold, but heaven is warm and comfortable;
   here we shiver for cold, but Abraham's bosom will make amends for all.

   Objection. 1. But I may die for want.

   Solution 1st. Who ever did so? When were the righteous forsaken? 2d. If
   so, your journey is ended, and you fully supplied.

   Object. 2. But I am not sure of that, were I sure of heaven it were
   another matter.

   Sol. Are you not sure of that? Then you have other matters to trouble
   yourselves about than these: methinks these should be the least of all
   your cares: I do not find that souls perplexed and troubled about the
   want of Christ, pardon of sin, &c. are usually very anxious or
   solicitous about these things. He that seriously puts such questions as
   these, What shall I do to be saved? How shall I know my sin is
   pardoned? doth not usually trouble himself with, What shall I eat, what
   shall I drink, or wherewith shall I be clothed?

   Consid. 6. Doth it become the children of such a Father to distrust his
   all-sufficiency, or repine at any of his dispensations?

   Do you well to question his care and love upon every new exigence? Say,
   have you not been ashamed of this formerly? Hath not your Father's
   seasonable provisions for you in former straits, put you to the blush,
   and made you resolve never to question his love and care any more? and
   yet will you renew your unworthy suspicions of him again? Disingenuous
   child! reason thus with thyself; if I perish for want of what is good
   and needful for me, it must either be because my Father knows not my
   wants, or hath not wherewith to supply them: or else regards not what
   becomes of me. Which of these shall I charge upon him? Not the first;
   for, My Father knows what I have need of, Matt. vi. 32; my condition is
   not hid from him: nor the second, for the earth is the Lord's, and the
   fulness of it, Psal. xxiv. 1. His name is God all-sufficient, Gen.
   xvii. 1. Not the last, for, as a father pities his children, so the
   Lord pities them that fear him, Psal. ciii. 13. The Lord is exceeding
   pitiful, and of tender mercy, Jam. v. 11. He hears the young ravens
   when they cry, Job xxxviii. 41. And will he not hear me? Consider
   (saith Christ) the fowls of the air, Matth. vi. 26. Not the fowls at
   the door, that are every day fed by hand, but the fowls of the air,
   that have none to provide for them. Doth he feed and clothe his
   enemies, and will he forget his children? He heard the very cry of
   Ishmael in distress, Gen. xxi. 17. O my unbelieving heart! dost thou
   yet doubt? Remember Hagar and her child.

   7. Consid. 7. Your poverty is not your sin, but your affliction only!
   if by sinful means you have not brought it upon yourselves; and if it
   be but an affliction, it may be born the easier for that.

   It is hard indeed to bear an affliction coming upon us as the fruit and
   punishment of sin; when men are under trouble upon that account, they
   use to say, O! if it were but a single affliction coming from the hand
   of God by way of trial, I could bear it, but I have brought it upon
   myself by sin; it comes as the punishment of sin; the marks of God's
   displeasure are upon it; it is the guilt within that troubles and galls
   more than the want without.

   But it is not so here, and therefore you have no reason to be cast down
   under it.

   Objection. But though there be no sting of guilt, yet this condition
   wants not other stings: as first, the discredit of religion; I cannot
   comply with mine engagements in the world, and thereby religion is like
   to suffer.

   Solution. It is well you have an heart to discharge every duty, yet if
   God disable you by providence, it is no discredit to your profession,
   because you do not that which you cannot do, so long as it is your
   desire and endeavor to do what you can and ought to do; and in this
   case God's will is, that lenity and forbearance be exercised towards
   you, Deut. xxiv. 12, 13.

   2 Object. 2. But it grieves me to behold the necessities of others whom
   I was wont to relieve and refresh, but now cannot.

   Sol. If you cannot, it ceases to be your duty, and God accepts the
   drawing out of your soul to the hungry in compassion and desire to help
   them, though you cannot draw forth a full purse to relieve and supply
   them.

   Object. 3. But I find such a condition full of temptations, a sore clog
   in the way to heaven.

   Sol. Every condition in the world hath its clogs and attending
   temptations; and were you in a prosperous condition, you might there
   meet with more temptations and fewer advantages than you now have: for
   though I confess poverty hath its temptations as well as prosperity,
   yet I am confident prosperity hath not those excellent advantages that
   poverty hath: for here you have an opportunity to discover the
   sincerity of your love to God, when you can live upon him, find enough
   in him, and constantly follow him, even when all external inducements
   and motives fail. And thus I have shewed you how to keep your hearts
   from the temptations and dangers attending a poor and low condition in
   the world; when want pinches and the heart begins to sink, then
   improve, and bless God for these helps to keep it.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                  SIXTH SEASON

HOW A CHRISTIAN MAY KEEP HIS

HEART FROM WANDERING IN DUTY

   "The sixth season of expressing this diligence in keeping the heart, is
   the season of duty; when we draw nigh to God in public, private, or
   secret duties, then it is time to look to the heart, for the vanity of
   the heart seldom discovers itself more than at such times. How often
   doth the poor soul cry out, O Lord, how fain would I serve thee, but
   vain thoughts will not let me; I came to open my heart to thee, to
   delight my soul in communion with thee, but my corruptions have set
   upon me: Lord, call off these vain thoughts, and suffer them not to
   prostitute the soul, which is espoused to thee, before thy face." The
   sixth case then is this:

   Case 6. How the heart may be kept from distraction by vain thoughts, in
   the time of duty.

   There is a two-fold distraction or wandering of the heart in duty: 1.
   Voluntary and habitual. They set not their hearts aright, and their
   spirit was not steadfast with God, Psal. lxxviii. 8. This is the case
   of formalists, and it proceeds from the want of an holy bent and
   inclination of the heart to God; their hearts are under the power of
   their lusts, and therefore it is no wonder that they go after their
   lusts, even when they are about holy things, Ezek. xxxiii. 31. 2d.
   Involuntary and lamented distractions, I find then a law, that when I
   would do good, evil is present with me; O wretched man that I am, &c.
   Rom. vii. 21, 24. This proceeds not from the want of a holy bent and
   aim, but from the weakness and imperfection of grace. And in this case
   the soul may make the like complaint against its own corruptions that
   Abijah did against Jeroboam, Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat is risen up
   against his Lord, when Rehoboam was young and tender-hearted, and could
   not withstand him, and there are gathered unto him vain men, the
   children of Belial, 2 Chr. xiii. 6, 7. Grace hath a dominion, but lusts
   are mutinous and seditious during the infancy thereof. But it is not my
   business to shew you how these distractions come into the heart, but
   rather how to get and keep them out of the heart; in order whereto take
   these ten following helps.

   Help 1. Sequester yourselves from all earthly employments, and set
   apart some time for solemn preparation to meet God in duty: you cannot
   come reeking hot out of the world into God's presence, but you will
   find a tang of it in your duties: it is with the heart a few minutes
   since plunged in the world, now at the feet of God, just as with the
   sea after a storm, which still continues working, muddy and disquiet,
   though the wind be laid and storm over: thy heart must have some time
   to settle. There are few musicians that can take down a lute or viol,
   and play presently upon it, without some time to tune it; there are few
   Christians who can presently say, as Psal. lvii. 7, O God, my heart is
   fixed, it is fixed. O when thou goest to God in any duty, take thy
   heart aside, and say, O my soul, I am now addressing myself to the
   greatest work that ever a creature was employed about: I am going into
   the awful presence of God, about business of everlasting moment.

   Oh my soul, leave trifling now, be composed, watchful, serious, this is
   no common work; it is God-work, soul-work, eternity-work. I am now
   going forth bearing seed, which will bring forth fruit to life or death
   in the world to come; pause a while upon thy sins, wants, troubles;
   steep thy thoughts a while in these before thou address thyself to
   duty. David first mused and then spake with his tongue, Psal. xxxix. 3,
   4. So Psal. xlv. 1. My heart is inditing, &c.

   Help 2. Having composed thy heart by previous meditation, presently set
   a guard upon thy senses: how often are poor Christians in danger of
   losing the eyes of their mind by those of their body; for this Job
   covenanted with his senses, chap. xxxi. 1, for this David prayed, Turn
   away mine eyes from beholding vanity, and quicken thou me in thy
   way,Psal. cxix. 37. This may serve to expound that mystical Arabian
   proverb, which advises to shut the windows that the house may be light:
   It were excellent if you could say in your onsets upon duty, as an holy
   man once did, when he came off from duty: Claudimini occuli mei
   claudimini, &c. Be shut, O mine eyes, be shut: for it is impossible you
   should ever see such beauty and glory in any creature, as I have now
   seen in God. You had need avoid all occasions of distraction from
   without, for be sure you will meet enough from within. Intention of
   spirit in the work of God, locks up the eye and ear against
   vanity.--When Marcellus entered the gates of Syracuse, Archemides was
   so intent about his mathematical scheme, that he took no notice of the
   soldiers when they entered his very study with drawn swords; a fervent
   cannot be a vagrant heart.

   Help 3. Beg of God a mortified fancy. A working fancy, saith one, how
   much soever it be extolled among men, is a great snare to the soul;
   except it work in fellowship with right reason, and a sanctified heart;
   the phantasy is a power of the soul placed between the senses and the
   understanding, it is that which first stirs itself in the soul, and by
   its motions the other powers are stirred; it is the common shop where
   thoughts are first forged and framed, and as this is, so are they; if
   imaginations be not first cast down, it is impossible that every
   thought of the heart should be brought into obedience to Christ, 2 Cor.
   x. 5. This fancy is naturally the wildest and most untameable power in
   the soul. Some Christians (especially such as are of hot and dry
   constitutions) have much to do with it.

   And truly, the more spiritual the heart is, the more it is troubled
   about the vanity and wildness of it. O what a sad thing it is! that thy
   nobler soul must lackey up and down after a vain roving fancy, that
   such a beggar should ride on horseback, and such a prince run after it
   on foot; that it should call off the soul from attendance upon God,
   when it is most sweetly engaged in communion with him, to prosecute
   such vanities as it would start at before! Beg earnestly of God, that
   the power of sanctification may once come upon it. Some Christians have
   attained such a degree of sanctification of their fancies, that they
   have had much sweetness left upon their hearts by the spiritual working
   of it in the night season: when thy fancy is more mortified, thy
   thoughts will be more orderly and fixed.

   Help 4. If thou wouldst keep thy heart from those vain excursions,
   realize to thyself by faith, the holy and awful presence of God in
   duties.

   If the presence of a grave man will compose us to seriousness, how much
   more the presence of an holy God?--Thinkest thou, thy soul durst be so
   gay and light, if the sense of a divine eye were upon it? Remember the
   place where thou art, is the place of his feet, Isa. lx. 13. Act faith
   upon the Omnisciency of God. All the churches shall know that I am he
   that searches the heart, and trieth the reins: and I will give to every
   one of you according to your works, Rev. ii. 23. All things are naked
   and open to the eyes of him with whom we have to do, Heb. iv. 13.
   Realize his infinite holiness; into what a serious composed frame did
   the sight of God in his holiness put the spirit of the prophet? Isa.
   vi. 5. Labour also to get upon thy heart due apprehensions of the
   greatness of God, such as Abraham had. I that am but dust and ashes
   have taken upon me to speak to God, Gen. xviii. 27. And lastly,
   remember the jealousy of God, how tender he is over his worship. And
   Moses said unto Aaron, This is that the Lord spake, saying, I will be
   sanctified in them that come nigh me, and before all the people I will
   be glorified, Lev. x. 3.

   "A man that is praying, saith Bernard, should behave himself as if he
   were entering into the court of heaven, where he sees the Lord upon his
   throne, surrounded with ten thousand of his angels and saints
   ministering unto him." When thou comest from a duty in which thy heart
   hath been toying and wandering, thou mayest say, verily God was in this
   place, and I knew it not. Suppose all the impertinences and vanities,
   which have past through thine heart in a duty were written out, and
   interlined with thy petitions; couldst thou have the face to present it
   to God? Should thy tongue but utter all the thoughts of thy heart in
   prayer, would not men abhor thee? Why, thy thoughts are vocal to God,
   Psal. cxxxix. 2. If thou wert petitioning the king for thy life, would
   it not provoke him to see thee playing with thy band strings, or
   catching at every fly that lights upon thy clothes, whilst thou art
   speaking to him about such serious matters? O think seriously upon that
   scripture. God is greatly to be feared in the assemblies of his saints,
   and to be had in reverence of all that are round about him, Psal.
   lxxxix. 7. Why did God descend in thunderings and lightnings, and dark
   clouds upon Sinai? Exod. xix. 16, 18. Why did the mountains smoke under
   him, the people quake and tremble round about him, yea Moses himself
   not exempted; but to teach the people that great truth, Let us have
   grace whereby we may serve Him acceptably, with reverence and godly
   fear, for our God is a consuming fire,Heb. xii. 28, 29. Present God
   thus before thee, and thy vain heart will quickly be reduced to a more
   serious frame.

   Help 5. Maintain a praying frame of heart in the intervals of duty;
   what is the reason our hearts are so dull, careless, and wandering,
   when we come to hear or pray, but because there have been such long
   intermissions in our communion with God; by reason whereof the heart is
   out of a praying frame? If that spiritual warmth, those holy
   impressions we carry from God in one duty, were but preserved to kindle
   another duty, it would be of marvellous advantage to keep the heart
   intent and serious with God.

   To this purpose those intermediate ejaculations, betwixt stated and
   solemn duties, are of most sweet and excellent use; by these, on duty
   is, as it were, linked to another, and so the soul, as it were, wraps
   up itself in a chain of duties. That Christian seldom misses his mark
   in solemn duty, that shoots up many of these darts in the intervals of
   duty. It is an excellent commendation Christ bestows upon the spouse,
   Thy lips, O my spouse, drop as the honey-comb, Cant. iv. 11. Upon which
   text one gives this sweet note; the honey-comb drops actually but
   sometimes, but it always hangs full of sweet drops ready to fall: if
   our ejaculations were more, our lamentations upon this account would be
   fewer.

   Help 6. Endeavor to engage and raise thy affections to God in duty, if
   thou wouldst have thy distractions cured.

   A dropping eye, and a melting heart, are seldom troubled as others upon
   this account: when the soul is intent upon any work, it gathers in its
   strength, and bends all the thoughts about it; and when it is deeply
   affected, it will be intent, the affections command the thoughts to go
   after them; deadness causes distraction, and distraction increases
   deadness: could you but look upon duties as the galleries of communion
   in which you walk with God, where your souls may be filled with those
   ravishing and matchless delights which are in his presence, your soul
   would not offer to stir from thence.

   It is with the heart in duty, as it is with those that dig for golden
   ore; they try here and finding none, try there; and so go from place to
   place, till at last they hit upon the rich vein, and there they sit
   down. If thy heart could but once hit the rich vein in duty it would
   dwell and abide there with delight and constancy. O how love I thy law,
   it is my meditation day and night! Psal. cxix. 97. The soul could dwell
   day and night upon its knees, when once its delights, loves, and
   desires are engaged. What is the reason your hearts are so shuffling,
   especially in secret duties? why are you ready to be gone almost as
   soon as you are come into the presence of God, but because your
   affections are not engaged?

   Help 7. Mourn over the matter to God, and call in assistance from
   heaven, when vain thoughts assault thy heart in duty.

   When the messenger of Satan buffeted Paul by wicked injections, as is
   supposed, he goes to God and mourns over it before him, 2 Cor. xii. 8.
   Never slight wandering thoughts in duty as small matters; follow every
   vain thought with a deep sigh; turn thee to God with such words as
   these: Lord, I came hither to speak with thee, and here a busy devil
   and a vain heart conspiring together have set upon me. O my God! what
   an heart have I! Shall I never wait upon thee without distraction! when
   shall I enjoy an hour of free communion with thee? Help me, my God,
   this once; do but display thy glory before mine eyes, and my heart
   shall quickly be recovered: thou knowest I came hither to enjoy thee,
   and shall I go away without thee? See how the heart of thy poor child
   works towards thee, strives to get near thee, but cannot: my heart is
   aground; come thou north wind, blow south wind: O for a fresh gale now
   from thy Spirit, to set my affections afloat! couldest thou but thus
   affectionately bewail thy distractions to God, thou mightest obtain
   help and deliverance from them: He would say to Satan, and thine
   imperious lusts, as Ahasuerus said of Haman, what, will he force the
   queen before my face? Who are these, that set upon my child in my work
   and presence?

   Help 8. Look upon the success and sweetness of thy duties, as very much
   depending upon the keeping of thy heart close with God in them.

   These two things, the success and sweetness of duty, are as dear to a
   Christian as his two eyes; and both of these must necessarily be lost,
   if the heart be lost in duty. Surely God heareth not vanity, neither
   doth the Almighty regard it, Job xxxv. 13. The promise is made to an
   heart engaged. Then shall ye seek me, and find me, when ye shall search
   for me with all your hearts. Jer. xxix. 13. Well, then, when thou
   findest thy heart under the power of deadness and distraction, say to
   thy soul, O what do I lose by a careless heart now! my praying times
   are the choicest parts, the golden spots of all my time: could I but
   get up this heart with God, I might now obtain such mercies as would be
   matter for a song to all eternity.

   Help 9. Look upon it as a great discovery of the sincerity or hypocrisy
   of your hearts, according as you find them careful, or careless, in
   this matter.

   Nothing will startle an upright heart more than this: what, Shall I
   give way to a customary wandering of heart from God? Shall the spot of
   the hypocrite appear upon my soul? They indeed can drudge on in the
   round of duty, never regarding the frames of their hearts, Ezek.
   xxxiii. 31, 32. but shall I do so? When men come into the presence
   chamber, and the King is not there, they bow to the empty chair. O
   never let me be satisfied with empty duties! never let me take my leave
   of a duty, until mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of Hosts.

   Help 10. Lastly, It will be of special use to keep thine heart with God
   in duties, to consider what influence all thy duties have into thy
   eternity.

   These are your seed-times, and what you sow in your duties in this
   world, you must look to reap the fruit of it in another world, Gal. vi.
   7, 8. If you sow to the flesh, of that you shall reap corruption; but
   if to the Spirit, life everlasting. O my soul, answer seriously,
   wouldst thou be willing to reap the fruit of vanity in the world to
   come? Darest thou say, when thy thoughts are roving to the ends of the
   earth in duty, when thou scarce mindest what thou sayest or hearest;
   now, Lord, I am sowing to the spirit; now I am providing and laying up
   for eternity, now I am seeking for glory, honor and immortality; now I
   am striving to enter in at the strait gate; now I am taking the kingdom
   of heaven by an holy violence? O such consideration as this should make
   the multitudes of vain thoughts that press in upon thy heart in duty,
   fly seven ways before it. And thus I have shewn you how to keep your
   hearts in the times of duty.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                 SEVENTH SEASON

HOW A CHRISTIAN MAY KEEP HIS

HEART FROM REVENGEFUL MOTIONS

   "The seventh season calling for more than common diligence to keep the
   heart, is, when we receive injuries and abuses from men. Such is the
   depravedness and corruption of man in his collapsed state, that homo
   homini lupus, one man is become a wolf, a tiger, to another: they are,
   as the prophet complains, As the fishes of the sea, and as the creeping
   things, that have no ruler over them, Hab. i. 14; and as wicked men are
   cruel and oppressive one to another, so they conspire together to abuse
   and wrong the people of God, as the same prophet complains, The wicked
   devoureth the man that is more righteous than he, ver. 13. Now when we
   are thus abused and wronged, it is hard to keep the heart from
   revengeful motions; to make it meekly and quietly to commit the cause
   to him that judgeth righteously; to exercise no other affection but
   pity towards them that abuse us. Surely the spirit that is in us
   lusteth to revenge, but it must not be so; you have choice helps in the
   gospel to keep down your hearts from such sinful motions against your
   enemies, and to sweeten your imbittered spirits." The seventh case then
   shall be this,

   Case 7. How a Christian may keep his heart from revengeful motions,
   under the greatest injuries and abuses from men.

   The gospel, indeed, allows a liberty to vindicate our innocency, and
   assert our rights, but not to vent our corruptions, and invade God's
   right. When, therefore, thou findest thy heart begin to be inflamed by
   revengeful motions, presently apply the following remedies; and the
   first is this,

   Remedy 1. Urge upon thy heart the severe prohibitions of revenge by the
   law of God. Remember that this is forbidden fruit, how pleasant and
   luscious soever it be to our vitiated appetites. O, saith nature,
   revenge is sweet: O but, saith God, the effects thereof shall be
   bitter. How plainly hath God interdicted this flesh-pleasing sin. Say
   not, I will recompense evil, Prov. xx. 22. Say not, I will do so to him
   as he hath done to me, Prov. xxiv. 29. Rom. xii. 17, Recompense to no
   man evil for evil; and ver. 19, Avenge not yourselves, but rather give
   place to wrath. Nay, that is not all; but, Prov. xxv. 21, If thine
   enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink. The word feed
   him, as critics observe, signifies to feed cheerfully and tenderly, as
   birds do their young ones: the scripture is a great friend to the peace
   and tranquility of human society, which can never be preserved, if
   revenge be not deposed. It was wont to be an argument urged by the
   Christians, to prove their religion to be supernatural and pure, that
   it forbids revenge, which is so sweet to nature; and verily it is a
   thousand pities such an argument should be lost. Well, then, awe your
   hearts with the authority of God in these scriptures, and when carnal
   reason saith, Mine enemy deserves to be hated, let conscience reply,
   But doth God deserve to be disobeyed? Thus, and thus, hath he done, and
   so he hath wronged me; but what hath God done, that I should wrong him?
   If he dare be so bold to break the peace, shall I be so wicked to break
   the precept? If he fears not to wrong me, shall not I fear to wrong
   God? O let the fear of God's threatenings repress such sinful motions.

   Remedy 2. Set before your eyes the most eminent patterns of meekness
   and forgiveness, that your souls may fall in love with them.

   This is the way to cut off those common pleas of the flesh for revenge:
   as thus, No man would bear such affront: Yes, such and such have borne
   as bad, and worse. I shall be reckoned a coward, a fool, if I pass by
   this: no matter, as long as I follow the examples of the wisest and
   holiest of men; never did any suffer more or greater abuses from men
   than Christ did, and never did any carry it more peaceably and
   forgivingly. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not
   his mouth; he was brought as a lamb to the slaughter, &c. Isa. liii. 7.
   This pattern of our Lord the Apostle sets before you for your
   imitation. For even hereunto are you called, because Christ also
   suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow his steps:
   who when he was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered, he
   threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously,
   1 Pet. ii. 21, 22, 23.. To be of a meek forgiving spirit, is
   Christ-like, God-like; then shall you be the children of your Father
   which is in heaven, for he maketh his sun to rise upon the evil, and
   upon the good; and sendeth rain on the just, and unjust, Mat. v. 45.
   How eminently also did this Spirit of Christ rest upon his apostles?
   Never were there such men upon earth for true excellency of spirit.
   None were ever abused more, or suffered their abuses better. Being
   reviled, say they, we bless; being persecuted, we suffer it; being
   defamed, we intreat, 1 Cor. iv. 12, 13. Mr. Calvin, though a man of a
   quick spirit, yet had attained such a degree of this Christ-like
   forgiveness, that when Luther had used some opprobrious language of
   him, the good man said no more but this, "although he should call me
   Devil, yet I will acknowledge him to be an eminent servant of Jesus
   Christ."

   I have often heard it reported of holy Mr. Dod, that when one, enraged
   at his close, convincing doctrine, picked a quarrel with him, smote him
   on the face, and dashed out two of his teeth; this meek servant of
   Christ spat out the teeth and blood into his hand, and said, See here,
   you have knocked out two of my teeth, and that without any just
   provocation; but on condition I might do your soul good, I would give
   you leave to dash out all the rest. Here is the excellency of a
   Christian's spirit, above all the attainments of moral Heathens: though
   they were excellent at many other things, yet they could never attain
   this forgiving spirit. It is the first office of justice (said Tully)
   to hurt no body, unless first provoked by an injury: whereupon
   Lactantius, O quam simplicem veramque sententiam duorum verborum
   adjectione, corrupit! What a dainty sentence spoiled the orator, by
   adding those two last words! Strive then for this excellency of spirit,
   which is the proper excellency of Christians; do some singular thing
   that others cannot do, and then you will have a testimony in their
   consciences. When Moses outdid the magicians, they were forced to
   confess the finger of God in that business.

   Remedy 3. Consider well the quality of the person that hath wronged
   thee; either he is a good man, or a wicked man, that hath done thee the
   injury: if he be a good man, there is light and tenderness in his
   conscience, and that will bring him at last to a sense of the evil he
   hath done; however Christ hath forgiven him greater injuries than
   these, and why shouldst not thou? Will not Christ upbraid him with any
   of those wrongs done to him, but frankly forgive him all; and will thou
   take him by the throat for some petty abuse that he hath done to thee?

   Or is he a wicked man? If so, truly you have more need to exercise pity
   than revenge towards him, and that upon a double account: for, 1. He is
   beside himself, so indeed is every unconverted sinner, Luke xv. 17.
   Should you go into Bedlam, and there hear one rail at you, another mock
   you, and a third threaten you; would you say, I will be revenged upon
   them? No, you would rather go away pitying them. Alas, poor creatures!
   they are out of their wits, and know not what they do. Besides,

   2. There is a day coming, if they repent not, when they will have more
   misery than you can find in your hearts to wish them; you need not
   study revenge, God's vengeance sleepeth not, and will shortly take
   place upon them, and is not that enough? Have they not an eternity of
   misery coming? If they repent not, this must be the portion of their
   cup! and if ever they do repent, they will be ready to make you
   reparation.

   Remedy 4. Keep down thy heart by this consideration, that by revenge
   thou canst but satisfy a lust, but by forgiveness thou shalt conquer a
   lust.

   Suppose by revenge thou shouldst destroy one enemy, I will shew thee
   how, by forgiving, thou shalt conquer three; thine own lust, the
   devil's temptation, and thine enemy's heart; and is not this a more
   glorious conquest? If by revenge thou overcome thine enemy, yet, as
   Bernard saith, Infelix victoria, ubi superans virum succumbit vitio:
   unhappy victory, when, by overcoming another man, thou art overcome by
   thine own corruption. By this way you may obtain a glorious conquest
   indeed. What an honourable and dry victory did David this way obtain
   over Saul? And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking
   these words, that Saul lifted up his voice and wept; and he said to
   David, thou art more righteous than I, 1 Sam. xxiv. 16, 17.

   It must be a very disingenuous nature indeed, upon which meekness and
   forgiveness will not work; a stony heart, which this fire will not
   melt. If thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink:
   for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, Prov. xxv.
   21. Some will have it a sin-punishing fire, but others an heart-melting
   fire. To be sure, it will either melt his heart, or aggravate his
   misery. Augustine thinks that Stephen's prayer for his enemies, was the
   great means of Paul's conversion.

   Remedy 5. Seriously propound this question to thy own heart, Have I got
   any good by the wrongs and injuries received, or have I not? If they
   have done you no good, turn the revenge upon yourselves: O that I
   should have such a bad heart, that can get no good out of such
   troubles! O that my spirit should be so unlike to Christ's! the
   patience and meekness of other Christians, have turned all the injuries
   thrown at them into precious stones; the spirits of others have been
   raised in blessing God, when they have been loaded with reproaches from
   the world, they have bound them as an ornament to their necks.
   Superbussio, said Luther, quod vides nomen pessimum mihi crescere, I
   could even be proud upon it, that I have a bad name among wicked men.
   To the same purpose Jerom said sweetly, Gratius ago Deo meo quod dignus
   sum quem mundus oderit; I thank my God, that I am worthy to be hated of
   the world. Thus their hearts were provoked by injuries to magnify God,
   and bless him for them; if it work contrary with me, I have cause
   enough to be filled with self-displicency.

   If you have got any good by them; if the reproaches and wrongs you have
   received, have made you search your hearts the more, watch your ways
   the more narrowly; if their wronging you, has made you see how you have
   wronged God, then let me say for them, as Paul did, Pray forgive them
   this wrong.

   What, can you not find an heart to forgive one that hath been
   instrumental of so much good to you? That is strange! what though they
   meant it for evil? Yet if God hath turned it to good, you have no more
   reason to rage against the instrument, than he had who received a wound
   from his enemy, which only brake and let out that imposthume, which
   otherwise had been his death.

   Remedy 6. It is of excellent use to keep the heart from revenge, to
   look up and eye the first cause by which all our troubles are ordered.

   This will calm and meeken our spirits quickly: never did a wicked
   tongue try the patience of a saint more than David's was tried by that
   railing Shimei; yet the spirit of this good man was not at all poisoned
   with revenge, though he goes along cursing and casting stones at him
   all the way. Yea, though Abishai offered David, if he pleased, the head
   of that enemy; yet the king said, What have I to do with you, ye son of
   Zeruiah? So let him curse, because the Lord hath said unto him, curse
   David: who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so? It may be God
   uses him as his rod to lash me; because I, by my sin, made his enemies
   to blaspheme him; and shall I be angry with the rod? How irrational
   were that? This also was it that quieted Job; he doth not rail and vow
   revenge upon the Chaldeans and Sabeans, but eyes God as the orderer of
   those troubles, and is quiet; The Lord hath taken away, blessed be his
   name, Job i. 21.

   Objection. But you will say, To turn aside the right of a man, to
   subvert a man in his cause, the Lord approveth not, Lam. iii. 36.

   Answer. True; but though it fall not under his approving, yet it doth
   under his permitting will, and there is a great argument for quiet
   submission in that: nay, he hath not only the permitting, but the
   ordering of all those troubles. Did we see more of an holy God, we
   should show less of a corrupt nature in such trials.

   Remedy 7. Consider how you daily wrong God, and you will not be so
   easily inflamed with revenge against others that have wronged you.

   You are daily grieving and wronging God, and yet he bears, forgives,
   and will not take vengeance upon you; and will you be so quick in
   avenging yourselves upon others? O what a sharp and terrible rebuke is
   that! O thou wicked and slothful servant! I forgave thee all that debt
   because thou desiredst me, shouldst not thou also have had compassion
   on thy fellow-servant, even as I had pity on thee? Mat. xviii. 32, 33.
   None should be filled with bowels of pity, forbearance, and mercy, to
   such as wrong them, as those should be that have experienced the riches
   of mercy themselves; methinks the mercy of God to us should melt our
   very bowels into mercy over others; it is impossible we should be cruel
   to others, except we forget how kind Christ hath been to us. Those that
   have found mercy, should shew mercy: if kindness cannot work, methinks
   fear should. If ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your
   Father forgive you your trespasses, Mat. vi. 15.

   Remedy 8. Lastly, Let the consideration of the day of the Lord, which
   draweth nigh, withhold your hearts from anticipating it by acts of
   revenge.

   Why are you so quick? Is not the Lord at hand, to avenge all his abused
   servants? Be patient therefore, my brethren, unto the coming of the
   Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth, &c. Be ye also patient, for the
   coming of the Lord draws nigh: grudge not one against another,
   brethren, lest ye be condemned. Behold the judge standeth at the door,
   Jam. v. 7, 8, 9. This text affords three arguments against revenge; 1.
   The Lord's near approach. 2. The example of the husbandman's patience.
   3. The danger we draw upon ourselves by anticipating God's judgment:
   Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord; he will distribute justice more
   equally and impartially than you can: they who believe they have a God
   to right them, will not so much wrong themselves, as avenge their own
   wrongs.

   Objection 1. But flesh and blood are not able to bear such abuses.

   Solution. If you resolve to consult flesh and blood in such cases, and
   do no more but what that will enable you to do; never pretend to
   religion: Christians must do singular and supernatural things.

   Objection 2. But if I put up with such abuses, I shall be reckoned a
   fool, and every one will trample upon me.

   Solution. 1. You may be reckoned so among fools, but God and good men
   will account it your wisdom, and the excellency of your spirits. 2. It
   must be a base spirit indeed, that will trample upon a meek and
   forgiving Christian: and thus learn to keep your hearts from revenge
   under all your provocations.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                 EIGHTH SEASON

HOW A CHRISTIAN MAY KEEP HIS

HEART UNDER GREAT PROVOCATIONS

   'The next season in which we are in danger of losing our hearts, is,
   when we meet with great crosses and provocations; then sinful passion
   is apt to transport the heart: it is the fault of many good men, to be
   of hasty and quick spirits when provoked: though they dare not concoct
   anger into malice, for that would be a note of wickedness: yet are they
   very incident to sudden anger, which is a sign of weakness. Beza, in
   the life of Calvin, observes, that he was of a keen and hasty spirit;
   and he that writes the life of great Cameron, saith, that his anger was
   soon stirred towards his near and familiar friends, but then he would
   soon depose it, and acknowledge his weakness. Alas! when provocations
   and trials of our patience come, we know not what spirit we are of. The
   eighth case therefore is this;'

   Case 8. How the heart may be kept meek and patient under great crosses
   and provocations.

   There are three sorts of anger, natural, holy, and sinful anger. 1.
   Natural, which is nothing else but the motion of the irascible appetite
   towards an offensive object; and this in itself is no sin, they are
   propassions rather than passions; the infelicities, rather than the
   sins of nature, as Jerom calls them. Reason, saith Plutarch, is the
   driver, the soul is the chariot, and the two horses that draw it on in
   all its motions, are the concupiscible and irascible appetites; whilst
   these are rightly managed by reason, they are not only lawful, but very
   useful to the soul. God would not have us to be stupid and insensate,
   though he would have us to be meek and patient. In Eph. iv. 26, he
   allows the natural motion, but forbids the sinful exorbitancy. 2. Holy
   anger, which is a pure flame, kindled by an heavenly spark of love to
   God, and in scripture is called zeal, which is (as one saith) the
   dagger which love draws in God's quarrel. Such was Lot's against the
   Sodomites, and that of Moses against the idolatrous Israelites. When
   Servetus condemned Zuinglius for his harshness, his answer was, In
   aliis mansuetus ero, in blasphemiis in Christum, non ita; In other
   cases I will be mild, but in the cause of Christ, not so. That which
   the world calls moderation and mildness here, is in God's account
   stupidity and cowardness; neither of these are that which I am now
   persuading you to keep your hearts against. But, 3. There is a sinful
   passion, that's the thing which endangers you. Now anger becomes
   sinful, when it is either causeless or excessive, Matth. v. 22; and
   that either in measure or time, exceeding the value of the impulsive
   cause, be it more transient or abiding, yet it is a sin, and is a
   matter of humiliation before God. Now the means to keep the heart from
   it under provocations, are these:

   Means 1. Get low and humble thoughts of yourselves, and then you will
   have meek spirits, and peaceable deportments towards others.

   The humble is ever the patient man; pride is the root of passion; a
   lofty, will be a surly spirit: bladders blown up with wind will not lie
   close together; let out the wind, and you may pack a thousand in a
   little room: Only by pride cometh contention, Prov. xiii. 10. When we
   overrate ourselves, then we think we are unworthily treated by others,
   and that provokes; and here, by the way, take notice of one great
   benefit of acquaintance with your own hearts, even the meekening and
   calming of your spirits. Christian, methinks thou shouldst know so much
   of thyself, that it is impossible any should lay thee lower, or have
   baser thoughts of thee, than thou hast of thyself. Some render the
   original of that text, Hab. ii. 5, thus: the proud man is as he that
   transgresseth by wine; and drunkards, you know, are quarrelsome. O get
   more humility, and that will bring you more peace.

   Means 2. Be often sweetening your spirits in communion with God, and
   they will not easily be imbittered with wrath towards men.

   A quiet conscience never produced an unquiet conversation; the peace of
   God doth rule in the heart, as an umpire, in appeasing strifes. Wrath
   and strife are hugely opposite to the frame and temper of a spiritual
   heart, because inconsistent with the delight and contentment of that
   dove-like spirit, which loves a sedate and quiet breast. O! saith a
   soul that feeds upon the sweet communion of the spirit, shall the
   sparkles of provocations now catch in my passions, and raise such a
   smoke in my soul as will offend and drive away the comforter from me?
   This is so effectual a remedy against passion, that I durst almost
   venture, in a Christian of a hasty nature, to make long-suffering a
   sign of communion with God. Seest thou such a Christian quiet and calm
   under provocations? it is very like his soul feeds upon such sweetness
   in God as he is loth to leave; and, on the other side, seest thou a
   Christian turbulent and clamorous? doubtless all is not well within;
   his spirit is like a bone out of joint, which cannot move without pain
   and trouble.

   Means 3. Get due apprehensions of the evil nature and effects of sinful
   anger: Ira furor brevis; Anger is a short madness, saith one: Ira
   animae febris, saith another; Anger is the fever of the soul; it is the
   interregnum and eclipse of reason, saith a third. The effects of it are
   also very sad.

   1. It grieves the Spirit of God, Eph. iv. 30, banishes him from that
   breast in which it rages and tumultuates: God is the God of peace; the
   presence and comforts of God are only enjoyed in a calm. It is a golden
   note one gives upon the fore-cited text, God doth not usually bless
   with peace of conscience, such as make no conscience of peace. 2. It
   gives advantage to the devil, Eph. iv. 26, 27; Satan is an angry and
   discontented spirit, and finds no rest but in restless hearts; he
   lives, like the salamander, in fires of contention; he bestirs himself
   when the spirits are in commotion, sometimes he fills the heart with
   revengeful thoughts, sometimes he fills the lips, and inflames the
   tongue with indecent language; even a meek Moses sometimes speaks
   unadvisedly with his lips. 3. It dis-tunes the spirit for duty; upon
   this account the Apostle dissuades husbands and wives from jarring
   carriages and contentions, that their prayers be not hindered, 1 Pet.
   iii. 7. All acts of worship must be suitable to the object of worship;
   but God is the God of peace, the God of love. 4. To mention no more, it
   disparages the Christian religion. How would Plato and Pythagoras shame
   us, if they were now living? Christ was a lamb for meekness, and doth
   it become his followers to be like lions? O keep your hearts or you
   will at once lose not only your own peace, but the credit of religion.

   Means 4. Consider how sweet a thing it is to a Christian to conquer his
   corruptions, and carry away the spoils of them.

   He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth
   his spirit, than he that taketh a city, Prov. xvi. 32. Is there any
   content in venting a passion? How much more in mortifying it! When thou
   comest in a calm mood, or upon a deathbed, to review thy life, how
   comfortable then will it be, to reflect upon the conquests thou hast
   got by the fear of God, over the evil propensions of thine own heart!
   It was a memorable saying of Valentinian the emperor, when he came to
   die: "Amongst all my conquests, said he, there is but one that now
   comforts me; and being asked what that was, he answered, I have
   overcome my worst enemy, mine own naughty heart."

   Means 5. Shame yourselves by setting before you those eminent patterns
   that have been most excellent for meekness.

   Above all, compare your spirits with the Spirit of Christ; Learn of me,
   saith he, for I am meek and lowly, Mat. xi. 29. Christ was meek and
   lowly, but I am proud and passionate; it was the high commendation of
   Moses, Now the man Moses was meek above all the men of the earth, Numb.
   xii. 3: and this was the man that God knew face to face! It is said of
   Calvin and Ursin, that they both were of choleric natures, but yet had
   so learned the meekness of Christ, as not to utter one word, under the
   greatest provocations, unbeseeming religion. When I read the pretty
   stories of the very heathens, that never had the advantages we have,
   how the Pythagoreans, whatever feuds had been among them in the day,
   would hush all, by sending to each other this message, The sun is
   almost set; and that of Plato to his scholar, I would beat thee, if I
   were not angry.

   When I read what lenity and tenderness Lycurgus shewed to an insolent
   fellow that had struck out one of his eyes, I am ashamed to see how
   much Christians are out-shot by heathens; who by mere moral arguments
   and precepts, had thus meekened their spirits and conquered their
   passions; the dim light of nature could teach Senaca to say, That anger
   will hurt a man more than the offence; for there is a certain bound in
   the offence, but I know not how far mine anger will carry me. It is a
   shame that these men who came so far behind us in means and advantages,
   should so far outstrip us in meekness and patience.

   Means 6. Lastly, Avoid all irritating occasions.

   He that will not hear the clapper, must not pull the rope: Grievous
   words stir up anger, Prov. xv. 1, saith Solomon, Do not only pray and
   resolve against it, but get as far as you can out of the way of it: it
   is true spiritual valour, to run as fast and far as we can, out of
   sin's way: if you can but avoid anger in its first rise, there is no
   great fear of it afterwards; for it is not with this sin as it is with
   other sins; other sins grow to their full strength by degrees, their
   first motions are the weakest; but this sin is born in its full
   strength, it is strongest at first; withstand it then, and it falls
   before you. Thus learn to keep your hearts when provocations arise.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                  NINTH SEASON

HOW A CHRISTIAN MAY KEEP HIS

HEART FROM YIELDING TO SIN

   "The ninth season of exerting our greatest diligence, is the critical
   hour of temptation, wherein Satan lays close siege to the Fort Royal of
   a Christian's heart, and often surprises it for want of watchfulness:
   to keep thy heart now, is no less a mercy than a duty; few Christians
   are so well skilled in detecting the fallacies, and retorting the
   arguments by which Satan uses to draw them to sin, as to come off safe
   in those encounters. Watch and pray, saith our Lord, lest ye enter into
   temptation, Mark xiv. 38. Even an eminent David, and a wise Solomon,
   have smarted for their carelessness at such a time as this." The ninth
   case therefore shall be this:

   Case 9. How a Christian, when strongly solicited by the devil to sin,
   may keep his heart from yielding to the temptation.

   Now there are six special arguments by which Satan subtly insinuates
   and winds in the temptation; in all which I shall offer thee some help
   for the keeping of thy heart; and the first is this:

   Argument. 1. The first argument is drawn from the pleasure of sin: O,
   saith Satan, here is pleasure to be enjoyed; the temptation comes with
   a smiling countenance, and charming voice: what art thou so phlegmatic
   and dull a soul, as not to feel the powerful charms of pleasure? Who
   can withhold himself from such delights?

   Now thine heart may be kept from the danger of this temptation, by
   retorting this argument of pleasure upon the tempter; which is done two
   ways.

   1. Thou tellest me, Satan, that sin is pleasant; be it so: but are the
   gripes of conscience, and the flames of hell so too? Is it pleasant to
   feel the wounds and throbs of conscience? If so, why did Peter weep so
   bitterly? Mat. xxvi. 75. Why did David cry out of broken bones? Psal.
   li. I hear what thou sayest of the pleasure of sin, and I have read
   what David hath said of the terrible effects of sin in his psalm to
   bring to remembrance, Psal. xxxviii. ver. 2. Thine arrows stick fast in
   me, and thy hand presseth me sore: Ver. 3. There is no soundness in my
   flesh, because of thine anger; neither is there any rest in my bones,
   because of my sin: Ver. 4. For mine iniquities are gone over mine head;
   as an heavy burden they are too heavy for me: Ver. 5. My wounds stink,
   and are corrupt; because of my foolishness: Ver. 6. I am troubled, I am
   bowed down greatly; I go mourning all day long: Ver. 7. My loins are
   filled with a loathsome disease; and there is no soundness in my flesh:
   Ver. 8. I am feeble and sore broken: I have roared by reason of the
   disquietness of my heart.

   Here I see the true face of sin; if I yield to thy temptation, I must
   either feel the pangs of conscience, or the flames of hell.

   2. What talkest thou of the pleasure of sin, when by experience I know
   there is more true pleasure in the mortification, than can be in the
   commission of sin? O how sweet is it to please God, to obey conscience,
   to preserve inward peace! to be able to say, in this trial I have
   discovered the sincerity of my heart; now I know I fear the Lord, now I
   see that I truly hate sin. Hath sin any such delight as this? This will
   choke that temptation.

   Arg. 2. The second argument is drawn from the secrecy of sin: O, saith
   Satan, this sin will never disgrace thee abroad, none shall know it.

   This argument may be retorted, and thy heart secured thus: thou sayest
   none shall know it; but Satan, canst thou find a place void of the
   divine presence for me to sin in? Thus Job secured his heart from this
   temptation, Job xxxi. 4. Doth he not see my ways, and count all my
   steps? Therefore he makes a covenant with his eyes, ver. 1. After the
   same manner Solomon teacheth us to retort this temptation, And why my
   son wilt thou be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom
   of a stranger? For the ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord, and
   he pondereth all his goings, Prov. v. 20, 21. What if I hide it from
   the eyes of the world for the present? I cannot hide it from God; and
   the time is at hand, when all the world shall know it too; for the word
   assures me, That what now is done in secret, shall be proclaimed as
   upon the house-top, Luke viii. 17.--Besides, is not my conscience as a
   thousand witnesses? Do I owe no reverence to myself? Could the heathen
   men say, Turps quid ausurus, te sine teste time; when thou art tempted
   to commit sin, fear thyself without any other witness: and shall not I
   be afraid to sin before mine own conscience which always hath a reproof
   in its mouth, or a pen in its hand, to record my most secret actions?

   Arg. 3. The third argument by which Satan tempteth to sin is taken from
   the gain and profit arising out of it: why so nice and scrupulous? It
   is but to stretch conscience a little, and thou mayest make thyself:
   now is thy opportunity.

   The heart may be kept from falling into this dangerous snare, by
   retorting the temptation thus: but what profit will it be, if a man
   should gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man
   give in exchange for his soul? Shall I hazard thee for all the good
   that is in this world? There is an immortal spirit dwelling in this
   fleshly tabernacle, of more value than all earthly things, which must
   live to all eternity, when this world shall lie in white ashes. A soul
   for which Jesus Christ shed his precious and invaluable blood. I was
   sent into this world to provide for this soul; indeed God hath also
   committed to me the care of my body, but, as one happily expresses it,
   with this difference; a master commits two things to a servant, the
   child and the child's clothes; will the master thank the servant, if he
   plead, I have kept the clothes, but I have neglected the life of the
   child??

   Arg. 4. The fourth argument is drawn from the smallness of the sin; it
   is but a little one, a small matter, a trifle; who would stand upon
   such niceties?

   This argument may be retorted three ways.

   1. But is the majesty of heaven a little one too? If I commit this sin,
   I must offend and wrong a great God, Isa. xl. 15, 16, 17, 22.

   2. Is there any little hell to torment little sinners in? Are not the
   least sinners there filled with the fulness of wrath? O there is great
   wrath treasured up for such as the world counts little sinners.

   3. The less the sin, the less the inducement to commit it; what, shall
   I break with God for a trifle? destroy my peace, wound my conscience,
   grieve the spirit, and all this for nothing? O what madness is this?

   Arg. 5. A fifth argument is drawn from the grace of God; and hopes of
   pardon: come, God will pass by this as an infirmity, he will not be
   extreme to mark it. But stay, my heart.

   1. Where do I find a promise of mercy to presumptuous sinners? Indeed,
   for involuntary surprisals, unavoidable and lamented infirmities, there
   is a pardon of course; but where is the promise to a daring sinner,
   that sins upon presumption of pardon? Pause a while my soul, upon that
   scripture, And if a soul sin through ignorance, then he shall bring a
   she-goat of the first year for a sin offering, &c. But the soul that
   doth aught presumptuously, the same reproacheth the Lord, and that soul
   shall be cut off from among his people, Numb. xv. 27, 30.

   2. If God be a God of so much mercy, how can I abuse so good a God?
   Shall I take so glorious an attribute as the mercy of God is, and abuse
   it unto sin? Shall I wrong him because he is good? or should not rather
   the goodness lead me to repentance? Rom. ii. 4. There is mercy with
   thee, that thou mayest be feared, Psal. cxxx. 4.

   Arg. 6. Lastly, Sometimes Satan encourages to sin from the examples of
   good and holy men; thus, and thus they sinned and been restored,
   therefore this may consist with grace, and thou be saved nevertheless.
   The danger of this temptation is avoided, and the heart secured, by
   retorting the argument these three ways:

   1. Though good men may commit the same sin materially, which I am
   tempted to, yet did ever any good man venture to sin, upon such a
   ground and encouragement as this?

   2. Did God record these examples for my imitation, or for my warning?
   Are they not set up as sea-marks, that I might avoid the rocks upon
   which they split? Now these were our examples, to the intent we should
   not lust after evil things, as they also lusted, 1 Cor. x. 6.

   3. Am I willing to feel what they felt for sin? O I dare not follow
   them in the ways of sin, quia me vestigia terrent; Lest God should
   plunge me into the deeps of horror into which he cast them.

   Thus learn to keep your hearts, in the hour of temptation, from sin.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                  TENTH SEASON

HOW A CHRISTIAN MAY KEEP HIS

HEART FROM DESPERATE CONCLUSIONS

   'The tenth special season to keep the heart with all diligence, is the
   time of spiritual darkness and doubting, when it is with the soul, as
   it was with Paul in his dangerous voyage, neither sun, nor moon, nor
   star appeared for many days; when by reason of the hidings of God's
   face, the prevalency of corruption, and the inevidence of grace, the
   soul is even ready to give up all its hopes and comforts for lost; to
   draw sad and desperate conclusions upon itself; to call its former
   comforts vain delusions; its grace hypocrisy. When the serene and clear
   heavens are overcast with dark clouds, yea, filled with thunders, and
   horrible tempests; when the poor pensive soul sits down and weeps forth
   this sad lamentation, My hope is perished from the Lord? Now to keep
   the heart from sinking in such a day as this, to enable it to maintain
   its own sincerity, is a matter of great difficulty.' The tenth case
   then will be this.

   Case 10. How the people of God, in dark and doubting seasons, may keep
   their hearts from entertaining such sad conclusions about their
   estates, as destroy their peace, and unfit them for their duty.

   There are two general heads, to which the grounds of doubting our
   sincerity may be reduced. 1. God's carriage towards the soul, either in
   the time of some extraordinary affliction, or of some long and sad
   desertion. Or, 2, The soul's carriage towards God: and here it usually
   argues against the truth of its own graces; either 1. From its relapses
   into the same sins, from which it hath formerly risen with shame and
   sorrow. Or, 2. From the sensible declining of its affections from God.
   Or, 3. From the excess of the affections towards creature-comforts and
   enjoyments. Or, 4. From its enlargements in public and often
   straitnings in private duties. Or, 5. From some horrid injections of
   Satan, with which the soul is greatly perplexed. Or, Lastly, from God's
   silence, and seeming denial of its long depending suits and prayers.

   These are the common grounds of those sad conclusions: now in order to
   the establishment and support of the heart in this condition, it will
   be necessary,

   1. That you be acquainted with some general truths, which have a
   tendency to the settlement of a trembling and doubting soul.

   2. That you be rightly instructed about the 'forementioned particulars,
   which are the grounds of your doubting.

   The general truths requisite for poor doubting souls to be acquainted
   with, are these:

   1. That every working and appearance of hypocrisy doth not presently
   prove the person in whom it is, to be an hypocrite. You must carefully
   distinguish between the presence and predominancy of hypocrisy: there
   are remains of deceitfulness in the best hearts; David and Peter had
   sad experience of it; yet the standing frame and general bent of the
   heart being upright, it did not denominate them hypocrites.

   2. That we ought as well to hear what can be said for us, as against
   us: it is the sin of upright hearts, sometimes to use an over-rigid and
   merciless severity against themselves: they do not indifferently
   consider the case of their own souls: it is in this case, as Solomon
   speaks in another, There is that maketh himself rich, and yet hath
   nothing; and there is that maketh himself poor, and yet hath great
   riches, Prov. xiii. 7. It is the damning sin of the self-flattering
   hypocrite, to make his condition better than it is: and it is the sin
   and folly of some upright ones to make their condition worse than
   indeed it is. Why should you be such enemies to your own peace, to read
   over the evidences of God's love to your souls, as a man doth a book,
   which he intends to confute? Why do you study to find evasions to turn
   off those comforts which are due to you? It is said of Joseph, that he
   was minded to put away his espoused Mary, not knowing that that holy
   thing which was conceived in her, was by the Holy Ghost; and this may
   be your case. A third truth is this,

   3. That many a saint hath charged and condemned himself for that, which
   God will never charge him with, nor condemn him for. Why hast thou
   hardened our hearts from thy fear? Isa. lxiii. 17, saith the church,
   and yet the verse before manifests, that their hearts were not so
   hardened: Godly Bradford wrote himself an hypocrite, a painted
   sepulchre; yet doubtless God acquitted him of that charge.

   4. Every thing which is a ground of grief to the people of God, is not
   a sufficient ground of questioning their sincerity. There are many more
   things to trouble you, than there is to stumble you: if upon every slip
   and failing through infirmity, you should question all that ever was
   wrought upon you, your life must be made up of doubtings and fears: you
   can never attain a settled peace, nor live that life of praise and
   thankfulness the gospel calls for.

   5. The soul is not at all times fit to pass judgment upon its own
   condition: to be sure in the dark day of desertion, when the soul is
   benighted; and in the stormy day of temptation, when the soul is in a
   hurry, it is utterly unfit to judge its estate: Examine your hearts
   upon your beds, and be still, Psal. iv. 4. This is rather a season for
   watching and resisting, than for judging and determining.

   6. That every breach of peace with God, is not a breach of covenant
   with God. The wife hath many weaknesses and failings, often grieves and
   displeases her husband; yet in the main is faithful, and truly loves
   him: these failings may cause him to alter his carriage, but not to
   withdraw his love, or deny his relation. Return, O backsliding Israel,
   for I am married unto you.

   7. Lastly, Whatever our sin, or trouble be, it should rather drive us
   to God, than from God. Pardon my sin; for it is great, Psal. xxv. 11,
   suppose it be true, that thou hast so and so sinned, that thou art thus
   long and sadly deserted: Yet it is a false inference, that therefore
   thou shouldst be discouraged, as if there were no help for thee in thy
   God. When you have well digested these seven established truths, if
   still the doubt remain, then consider what may be replied to the
   particular grounds of those doubts. As,

   1. You doubt, and are ready to conclude, the Lord hath no regard or
   love for your souls, because of some extraordinary affliction which is
   come upon you: but I would not have thy soul so to conclude, till thou
   be able satisfactorily to answer these three questions.

   Question 1. If great troubles and afflictions be marks of God's hatred,
   why should not impunity and constant prosperity be tokens of his love?
   For contraiorum contraria est ratio et consequentia? of contrary things
   there is a contrary reason and consequence; but is this so indeed? or
   saith not the scripture quite otherwise? Prov. i. 32. The prosperity of
   fools destroys them. So, Psal. lxxiii. 3-5.

   Quest. 2. Dare I draw the same conclusion upon all others that have
   been as much, yea more afflicted than myself? If this argument conclude
   against thee, then so it doth against every one in thy condition; yea,
   the greater the affliction of any child of God hath been, the more
   strongly the argument still concludes; and then woe to David, Job,
   Heman, Paul, and all that have been afflicted as they were.

   Quest. 3. Had God exempted you only from those troubles which all other
   his people feel, would not that have been a greater ground of doubting
   to you than this? Especially since the scripture saith, If ye be
   without chastenings, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards,
   and not sons, Heb. xii. 8.

   Oh how is our Father put to it by froward children! If he afflicts,
   then one cries, he loves me not: if he exempt from affliction, others
   question his love upon that ground. Surely you have other work to do
   under the rod, than this.

   2. Or do you rashly infer the Lord has no love for you, because he
   hides his face from you; that your condition is miserable, because dark
   and uncomfortable? Before you draw such rash conclusions, see what
   answer you can give to these four following queries.

   Query 1. If any action of God towards his people will bear a
   favourable, as well as a harsh and severe construction, why should not
   his people interpret it in the best sense? And is not this such? May he
   not have a design of love, as well as of hatred, in this dispensation?
   May he not depart for a season, and not for ever; yea, that he might
   not depart for ever? You are not the first that have mistaken God's
   ends in desertion, Isa. xlix. 14. Zion said, the Lord hath forsaken me,
   my God hath forgotten me: Was it so indeed? Nothing less. Ver. 15. Can
   a woman forget, &c.

   Query 2. Do you find the marks of an absolute, total and final
   desertion upon your own spirits, that you are so apt to conclude yours
   to be such? Do you find your heart inclined to forsake God? Have you
   lost your conscientious tenderness in point of sin? If so, sad
   characters appear upon you indeed; but if, in this dark hour, you are
   as tender of sin as ever, as much resolved to cleave to God as ever, I
   cannot, I will not forsake God, let him do what he will with me: Oh no,
   I cannot. If your hearts work thus, it can be but a partial, limited,
   and temporary desertion; by this he still keeps his interest in your
   hearts, a sure sign he will return and visit you again.

   Query 3. Is sense and feeling a competent judge of God's actions and
   designs? Or may a man safely rely upon its testimony after so many
   discoveries of the infallibility of it? is this a sound argument? If
   God had any love for my soul, if it were not quite gone I should feel
   it now as well as in former times; but I cannot feel it: therefore it
   is quite gone. Do not you know the sun still keeps on his course in the
   heavens, even in foul and close weather, when you cannot see it? and
   may it not be so with the love of God? Read Isa. l. 10. May not I as
   well conclude in winter, when the flowers have hid their beautiful
   heads under ground, they are quite dead and gone, because I cannot find
   them in December where I saw them in May?

   Query 4. Think you the Lord cares not to break his children's hearts,
   and his own promise too! Hath he no more regard to either? If he return
   no more, these must be the consequences, Isa. lvii. 16, 17. Heb. xiii.
   5.

   Well then, from God's carriage towards you, either in affliction or
   desertion, no such discouraging, heart-sinking conclusions can be
   inferred. Next, let us see whether they may not be inferred from our
   carriage towards God; and here the principal grounds of doubting are
   such as these:

   1. I have fallen again into the same sin from which I have formerly
   risen, with repentance and resolution; therefore my sinning is
   customary sinning; a spot that is not the spot of God's children. Hence
   the upright soul trembles; upon this it is ready to affirm, that all
   its former humiliations for, and oppositions unto sin, were but acts of
   hypocrisy. But stay, poor trembling heart.

   Query 1. If this be so, how comes it to pass that Christ puts such a
   favourable construction upon the disciples sleeping the third time,
   when he had as often reproved them for it? Matth. xxvi. 40, 41; and how
   is it that we find in scripture so many promises made to God's people,
   not only upon their first sins, but upon their backslidings also? Jer.
   iii. 22. Hos. xiv. 4.

   Query 2. Is not your repentance and care renewed as often as your guilt
   is renewed? Yea, the oftener you sin, the more you are troubled; it is
   not so in customary sinning, the rise whereof Bernard excellently
   discovers. 1. Saith he, When a man accustomed to good, sinneth
   grievously, it seems insupportable, yea, he seems to descend alive into
   hell. 2. In process of time it seems not insupportable, but heavy; and
   betwixt insupportable and heavy, there is no small descent. 3. Next it
   becomes light, his conscience smites but faintly, and he feels not the
   stripes of it. 4. Then there is not only a total insensibleness of it,
   but that which was bitter and displeasing, is now become sweet and
   pleasing in some degree. 5. Then it is turned into custom, and not only
   pleases, but daily pleases. Lastly, custom is turned into nature; he
   cannot be pulled away from it, but defends and pleads for it: This is
   customary sinning, this is the way of the wicked; but the quite
   contrary is our condition.

   Query 3. Are you sure from scripture grounds, that a good man may not
   relapse again and again into the same sin? It is true, as for gross
   sins, they do not use to relapse into them: David committed adultery no
   more; Paul persecuted the church no more; Peter denied Christ no more:
   but I speak of ordinary infirmities. Job's friends were good men, yet,
   saith he, chap. xix. 3, These ten times have ye reproached me. So then,
   no such conclusions follow from this first ground of doubting.

   2. The second ground is, the declining and withering of our affections
   to spiritual things. O! saith the upright soul, if ever I had been
   planted a right seed, I should have been as a green olive-tree in the
   house of my God; but my branches wither: therefore my root is naught.
   But stay,

   Query 1. May you not be mistaken about the decay of grace, and fading
   of your affections? What if they are not so quick and ravishing as at
   first, may not that be recompensed in the spirituality and solidity of
   them now? I pray God your love may abound more and more in all
   judgment: Phil. i. 9. It may be more solid, though not so ferverous; or
   do you not mistake, by looking forward to what you would be, rather
   than backward to what once you were? It is a good note of Ames, that we
   discern the growth of grace, as the growth of plants, which we perceive
   rather Grevisse quam crescere, to have grown, than to grow.

   Query 2. But grant it be so indeed as you affirm, must it needs follow,
   that the root of the matter is not in you? David's last ways are
   distinguished from his first, 2 Chr. xvii. 3. and yet both first and
   last a holy man. The Church of Ephesus is charged by Christ for leaving
   her first love, and yet a golden candlestick, many precious saints in
   that church, Rev. ii. 2, 3, 4.

   3. A third ground of those sad conclusions is the excess of our
   affections to some creature enjoyments. I fear I love the creature more
   than God; and if so, my love is but hypocritical: I sometimes feel
   stronger and more sensible motions of my heart to earthly comforts,
   than I do to heavenly objects: therefore my soul is not upright in me.
   But stay, O soul,

   Query 1. May not a man love God more solidly and strongly than the
   creature, and yet his affections to the creature be sometimes moved
   more violently and sensibly than towards God? As rooted malice argues a
   stronger hatred, than a sudden, though more violent passion, so we must
   measure our love, not by a violent motion of it now and then, but by
   the depth of the root, and constancy of its actings. Because David was
   so passionately moved for Absalom, Joab concludes, that if he had
   lived, and all the people died, it would have pleased him well, 2 Sam.
   xix. 7. but that was argued more like a soldier, than a logician.

   Query 2. If you indeed love the creature for itself, if you make it
   your end, and religion but a means, then the conclusion is rightly
   drawn upon you. But, if you love the creature in reference to God, and
   see nothing in it separated from him, though sometimes your affections
   offend in the excess; this is consistent with sincere love to God. To
   love the creature inordinately, to put it in God's room, and make it a
   man's end; this is the love of a carnal heart; to love it immoderately,
   that is, to let out more affection to it than we ought, is sometimes
   the sin of the best hearts.

   Query 3. Have not many souls feared as you do, that, when Christ and
   creatures should stand as competitors in some eminent trial, they
   should forsake Christ rather than the creature; and yet when brought to
   that dilemma, have been able to cast all the world at their heels for
   Christ? Many of the martyrs had such fears, and thus they were
   satisfied; the prevalency of love is best seen at parting; there may be
   more love to Christ in thy soul, than thou art now aware of; and if God
   bring thee to such a pinch, thou mayest see it.

   4. A fourth ground of these sad conclusions is from hence, that we find
   our hearts sometimes more straitened in private, than in public duties.
   O! if my soul were sincere, its actings in duty would be uniform; I
   fear I am but a Pharisee upon this ground. It is sad indeed we should
   at any time find our hearts straitened in private. But,

   Query 1. Do not all thine enlargements in duty, whether public or
   private, depend upon the Spirit, who is the Lord of influences; and
   according as he gives out, or holds back those influences, so art thou
   enlarged or straitened? And what if sometimes he pleases to give that
   in a public, which he withholds in a private duty? As long as thy soul
   is satisfied with neither, without communion with God, and the
   straitness of thy heart is indeed its burden? Doth that argue thee to
   be an hypocrite?

   Query 2. Dost thou not make conscience of private duties, and set
   thyself as before the Lord in them? Indeed, if thou live in the
   constant neglect or careless performance of them; if thou art curious
   about public, and careless about private duties, that would be a sad
   sign: but when you have conscientiously performed, and often met with
   God in them, it will not follow that you are insincere, because that
   communion is sometimes interrupted. Besides,

   Query 3. May there not be something at sometimes in a public, which is
   wanting in a private duty, to raise and advantage thine affections? God
   may sometimes make use of the melting affections of them with whom thou
   hearest or prayest, as petty instruments to move thy affections; this
   advantage is wanting in private: therefore from hence (the case so
   standing) no such inference can be drawn.

   5. Another ground is from those horrid injections of Satan, with which
   the soul is greatly perplexed; by these I may see what an heart I have:
   can grace be where these are?

   Yes, grace may be where such thoughts are, though not where they are
   lodged and consented to. Dost thou cry out under the burden, enter thy
   protest in heaven against them, strive to keep up holy and reverend
   thoughts of God? Then it is violence, not a voluntary prostitution.

   6. The last ground of these sad conclusions, is the Lord's long
   silence, and seeming denial of our long depending suits and prayers. O
   if God had any regard to my soul, he would have heard my cries before
   now! But I have no answer from him, therefore no interest in him. But
   stay, doubting soul,

   Query 1. Have not many saints stumbled upon this stone before thee?
   Psal. xxxi. 22. I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine
   eyes: nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplication. So the
   church, Lam. iii. 44. "Thou coverest thyself with a cloud, that our
   prayers should not pass through." Jonah ii. 4. "Then said I, I am cast
   out of thy sight." And may not you be mistaken in this matter as well
   as they?

   Query 2. Though God's abhorring, and final rejecting prayer, be an
   argument of his abhorring the person that prays; yet dare we conclude
   so from a mere suspension of the answer? God may bear long with his own
   elect, that cry unto him day and night. Luke xviii. 7.

   Query 3. Can you deny but that there are some signs appearing in your
   souls, even whilst God suspends his answer, that argue your prayers are
   not rejected by him? As, 1. Though no answer come, yet you are still
   resolved to wait: you dare not say as that profane wretch did, This
   evil is of the Lord, why should I wait for him any longer? 2 Kings vi.
   33. 2. You can clear and justify God still, and lay the reason and
   cause of his silence upon yourselves. So did David, Psal. xxii. 2, 3, O
   my God, I cry in the day time, and thou hearest not; and in the night,
   and am not silent: but thou art holy, &c. 3. The suspension of God's
   answer makes you inquisitive into your own hearts, what evils are there
   that obstruct your prayers; so the church, Lam. iii. 8, He shutteth out
   my prayer: and how doth he this work? You may see, v. 40. Let us search
   and try our ways. Well then, neither from hence may you conclude that
   God hath no love for your souls.

   Caution. And thus I have shewn you how to keep your hearts in a dark
   and doubting season from those desperate conclusions of unbelief. God
   forbid any false heart should encourage itself from these things; it is
   our unhappiness that when we give saints and sinners their proper
   portions, that each of them are so prone to take up the other's part.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                ELEVENTH SEASON

HOW A CHRISTIAN MAY KEEP HIS

HEART FROM RELAPSING UNDER SUFFERINGS

   'The eleventh special season, calling for this diligence to keep our
   hearts, is, when sufferings for religion come to an height, then look
   to your hearts, Mat. xxiv. 8, 9, 10, All these are the beginning of
   sorrows, and they shall deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill
   you; and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake; and then
   shall many be offended. When sufferings for religion grow hot, then
   blessed is he that is not offended in Christ. Troubles are then at an
   height, 1. When a man's nearest friends and relations forsake and leave
   him, Mic. vii. 5, 6. 2 Tim. iv. 16. When a man is engaged alone. 2.
   When it comes to resisting to blood, Heb. xii. 4. 3. When temptations
   are presented to us in our sufferings, Heb. xi. 37. 4. When eminent
   persons for profession turn aside, and desert the cause of Christ, 2
   Tim. ii. 19. 5. When God hides his face in a suffering hour, Jer. xvii.
   17. 6. When Satan falls upon us with strong temptations, to question
   the grounds of our sufferings, or the soul's interest in Christ: now it
   is hard to keep the heart from turning back, and the steps from
   declining God's ways.' The eleventh question then shall be this:

   Case 11. How the heart may be kept from relapsing under the greatest
   sufferings for religion? If the bitterness of sufferings at any time
   cause thy soul to distaste the way of God, and take up thoughts of
   forsaking it; stay thine heart under that temptation, by propounding
   these eight questions solemnly to it.

   Question 1. What reproach and dishonour shall I pour upon Christ and
   religion, by deserting him at such a time as this? This will proclaim
   to all the world, that how much soever I have boasted of the promises,
   yet, when it comes to the trial, I dare hazard nothing upon the credit
   of them: and how will this open the mouths of Christ's enemies to
   blaspheme? O better had I never been born, than that worthy name should
   be blasphemed through me! shall I furnish the triumphs of the
   uncircumcised? Shall I make mirth in hell? O if I did but value the
   name of Christ as much as many a wicked man values his own name, I
   would never endure to see it exposed in such contempt! will proud dust
   and ashes venture death, yea, hell, rather than a blot upon their
   names? And shall I venture nothing to save the honour and reputation of
   Christ?

   Question 2. Dare I violate my conscience to save my flesh? Who shall
   comfort me when conscience wounds me? What comfort is there in life,
   liberty, or friends, when peace is taken away from the inner man? When
   Constantius threatened to cut off Samosatenus's right hand, if he would
   not subscribe somewhat that was against his conscience; he help up both
   his hands to the messenger that was sent, saying, he shall cut off both
   rather than I will do it: farewell, all peace, joy, and comfort, from
   that day forward. Had Zimri peace, that slew his master? said Jezebel.
   So say I here, had Judas peace? Had Spira peace? And shall you have
   peace, if you tread in their steps? O consider what you do!

   Question 3. Is not the public interest of Christ and religion,
   infinitely more than any private interest of my own? It is a famous
   passage, that of Terentius, captain to Adrian the emperor; he presented
   a petition to Adrian, that the Christians might have a temple by
   themselves to worship God, apart from the Arians: the emperor tore his
   petition and threw it away, bidding him to ask something for himself,
   and it should be granted. But he modestly gathered up the pieces of his
   petition again, and told him, If he could not be heard in God's cause,
   he would never ask anything for himself. Yea, even Tully, though an
   heathen, could say, Ne immortalitatem quidem contra rempublicam; he
   would not accept even of immortality itself against the commonwealth. O
   if we had more pubic, we should not have such cowardly spirits!

   Question 4. Did Jesus Christ serve me so, when for my sake he exposed
   himself to far greater sufferings than can be before me? His sufferings
   were great indeed, he suffered from all hands in all his offices, in
   every member, not only in his body, but in his soul; yea, the
   sufferings of his soul were the very soul of his sufferings: witness
   the bloody sweat in the garden; witness the heart-melting and
   heaven-rending out-cry upon the cross, My God, my God, why hast thou
   forsaken me? And yet he flinched not, he endured the cross, despising
   the shame. Alas! what are my sufferings compared with Christ's? He hath
   drank up all that vinegar and gall that would make my sufferings
   bitter. When one of the martyrs was asked, why he was so merry at his
   death? Oh, said he, it is because the soul of Christ was so heavy at
   his death. Did Christ bear such a burden for me, with unbroken patience
   and constancy; and shall I shrink back from momentary and light
   afflictions for him?

   Question 5. Is not eternal life worth the suffering of a moment's pain?
   If I suffer with him, I shall reign with him. O how will men venture
   life and limb for a fading crown, swim through seas of blood to a
   throne! and will I venture nothing, suffer nothing for the crown of
   glory that fadeth not away? My dog will follow my horse's heels from
   morning to night, take many a weary step through mire and dirt, rather
   than leave me, though at night all he gets by it is but bones and
   blows: if my soul had any true greatness, any sparks of generosity in
   it, how would it despise the sufferings of the way, for the glory of
   the end? how would it break down all difficulties before it? whilst by
   an eye of faith it sees the forerunner, who is already entered,
   standing, as it were, upon the walls of heaven, with the crown in his
   hand, saying, He that overcometh, shall inherit all things. Come on
   then, my soul, come on, there is eternal life laid up for them that, by
   patient continuance in well-doing, seek for glory, honour, and
   immortality, Rom. ii. 7.

   Question 6. Can I so easily cast off the society and company of the
   saints, and give the right hand of fellowship to the wicked? How can I
   part with such lovely companions as these have been? how often have I
   been benefited by their counsels? Ezra x. 3. how often refreshed,
   warmed and quickened by their company? Eccl. iv. 10, 11. how often have
   I fasted and prayed with them? What sweet counsel have I taken with
   them, and gone to the house of God in company? And shall I now shake
   hands with them, and say, farewell, all ye saints, forever, I shall
   never be among you more: come drunkards, swearers, blasphemers,
   persecutors, you shall be my everlasting companions? O rather let my
   body and soul be rent asunder, than that ever I should say thus to the
   excellent of the earth, in whom is all my delight.

   Question 7. Have I seriously considered the terrible
   scripture-comminations against backsliders? O my heart! darest thou
   turn thy back upon the very point of such threatenings as these? Jer.
   xvii. 5, 6, Thus saith the Lord, Cursed be the man that trusteth in
   man, and maketh flesh his arm: and whose heart departeth from the Lord;
   for he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not see when
   good cometh; that is, the curse of God shall wither him root and
   branch. And, Heb. x. 26, 27. If we sin wilfully after we have received
   the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins,
   but a certain fearful looking for of judgment, and fiery indignation,
   which shall devour the adversaries. And again, v. 38. If any man draw
   back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him; as if he should say, Take
   him world, take him, devil, for your own, I have no delight in him. O
   who dare draw back, when God hath hedged up the way with such terrible
   threats as these!

   Question 8. Can I look Christ in the face at the day of judgment, if I
   desert him now?

   He that is ashamed of me, and of my words, in this adulterous and
   sinful generation, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed when he
   cometh in the glory of his Father, with the holy angels, Mark viii. 38.
   Yet a little while, and you shall see the sign of the Son of man coming
   in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory; the last trump
   shall sound, the dead, both small and great, even all that sleep in the
   dust, shall awake, and come before that great white throne, on which
   Christ shall sit in that day. And now, do but imagine thou sawest the
   trembling knees, and quivering lips of guilty sinners; imagine thou
   heardest the dreadful sentence of the judge upon them, go, ye cursed,
   &c. and then a cry. Oh! the weeping, wailing, and wringing of hands
   that there shall be. Wouldst thou desert Christ now, to protract a poor
   miserable life on earth? If the word of God be true, if the sayings of
   Christ be sealed and faithful, this shall be the portion of the
   apostate. It is an easy thing to stop the mouth of conscience now, but
   will it be easy to stop the mouth of the judge then? Thus keep thy
   heart, that it depart not from the living God.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                 TWELFTH SEASON

HOW A CHRISTIAN MAY ENCOURAGE

HIS HEART AGAINST DEATH

   The twelfth season of looking diligently to our hearts, and keeping
   them with greatest care, is the time of sickness: 'When a child of God
   draws nigh to eternity, when there are but a few sands more in the
   upper part of his glass to run down, and when Satan busily bestirs
   himself; of him it may be said, as of the natural serpent, Nunquam nisi
   moriens producitur in longum; he is never seen at his full length till
   dying: and now his great design, since he cannot win the soul from God,
   is to discourage and make it unwilling to go to God, though the
   gracious soul, with Jacob, should then rouse up itself upon a dying
   bed, and rejoice that the marriage day of the Lamb is now almost come;
   though it should then say with dying Austin, Vivere renou ut Christo
   vivan; I despise life to be with Christ. Or as dying Milius, when one
   asked him whether he were willing to die? O, said he, illius est nolle
   mori, qui nolit ire ad Christum; let him be unwilling to die, who is
   unwilling to go to Christ. But O! what shrinking from death, what
   lothness to depart, may sometimes, indeed too frequently, be observed
   in the people of God? How loth are some of them to take death by the
   cold hand? If such a liberty were indulged to us, not to be dissolved,
   till we dissolve ourselves; when should we say with St. Paul, I desire
   to be dissolved? Well then, the last case shall be this,'

   Case 12. How the people of God in times of sickness may get their
   hearts loose from all earthly engagements, and persuade them into a
   willingness to die.

   And there are seven arguments; which I shall urge upon the people of
   God at such a time as this, to make them cheerfully entertain the
   messenger of death, and die, as well as live, like saints. And the
   first is this:

   Argument 1. First, The harmlessness of death to the people of God.
   Though it keeps its dart, it hath lost its sting: a saint (to allude to
   that, Isa. xi. 8.) may play upon the hole of this asp, and put his hand
   into the cockatrice's den. Death is the cockatrice or asp, the grave is
   his hole or den; a saint need not fear to put his hand boldly into it:
   it hath left and lost its sting in the sides of Christ, 1 Cor. xv. 55.
   O death! where is thy sting? Why art thou afraid, O saint, that this
   sickness may be in thy death, as long as thou knowest, that the death
   of Christ is the death of death? Indeed, if thou didst die in thy sins,
   as John viii. 21, if death, as a king, did reign over thee, Rom. v. 14.
   if it could feed upon thee, as the lion doth upon the prey he hath
   taken, as Psal. xlix. 14, if hell followed the pale horse, as it is,
   Rev. vi. 8, then thou mightest well startle and shrink back from it;
   but when God hath put away thy sins from thee, as far as the east is
   from the west, Psal. ciii. 12, as long as there is no other evil left
   in death for thee to encounter with, but bodily pain; as long as the
   scriptures represent it to thee under such harmless and easy notions as
   the putting off thy clothes, 2 Cor. v. 2. And lying down to sleep upon
   thy bed, Isa. lvii. 2, why shouldst thou be afraid? There is as much
   difference betwixt death to the people of God, and others, as betwixt
   the unicorn's horn, when it is upon the head of the fierce beast, and
   when it is in the apothecary's shops, where it is made salubrious and
   medicinal.

   Arg. 2. Thy heart may be kept from shrinking back at such a time as
   this, by considering the necessity of death, in order to the full
   fruition of God.

   Whether thou art willing to die or no, I assure thee there is no other
   way to obtain the full satisfaction of thy soul, and to complete its
   happiness; till the hand of death do thee the kind office to draw aside
   the curtain of the flesh, thy soul cannot see God: This animal life
   stands betwixt him and thee, 2 Cor. v. 6, Whilst we are at home in the
   body, we are absent from the Lord. Thy body must be refined and cast
   into a new mould, else that new wine of heavenly glory would break it.
   Paul, in his highest rapture, 2 Cor. xii. 4, when he heard things
   unutterable, was then but as a stander-by, a looker-on, not admitted
   into the company as one of them; but as the angels are in our
   assemblies, so was Paul in that glorious assembly above, and no
   otherwise; and yet even for this he must, as it were, be taken out of
   the body, unclothed for a little time, to have a glimpse of that glory,
   and then put on his clothes again! O then! who would not be willing to
   die for a full sight and enjoyment of God? Methinks thy soul should
   look and sigh, like a prisoner, through the grates of this mortality; O
   that I had wings like a dove! then would I fly away and be at rest:
   most men need patience to die; but a saint that understands what death
   admits him to, should rather need patience to live; methinks he should
   often look out, and listen on a death-bed for his Lord's coming; and
   when he receives the news of his approaching change, should say, The
   voice of my beloved! Behold, he cometh leaping over the mountains,
   skipping over the hills, Cant. ii. 8.

   Arg. 3. Another argument, persuading to this willingness, is the
   immediate succession of a more excellent and glorious life.

   It is but wink, and you shall see God: your happiness shall not be
   deferred till the resurrection; but as soon as the body is dead, the
   gracious soul is swallowed up in life, Rom. viii. 10, 11. When once you
   have loosed from this shore, in a few moments your souls will be wafted
   over upon wings of angels to the other shore of a glorious eternity,
   Phil. i. 23. I desire to be dissolved, and to be with Christ. Did the
   soul and body die together, as Berilius taught; or did they sleep till
   the resurrection, as others have groundlessly fancied; it had been a
   madness for Paul to desire a dissolution for the enjoyment of Christ,
   for if this were so, he enjoyed of Christ whilst his soul dwelt in its
   fleshly tabernacle, than he should out of it.

   There are but two ways of the soul's living known in scripture, viz.
   the life of faith, and the life of vision, 1 Cor. v. 5. Those two
   divide all time, both present and future, betwixt them, 1 Cor. xiii.
   12. If when faith fails, sight should not immediately succeed, what
   should become of the unbodied soul? But, blessed be God, this great
   heart-establishing truth is evidently revealed in scripture, Luke
   xxiii. 43. You have Christ's promise, John xiv. 3, I will come and
   receive you to myself. O what a change will a few moments make upon
   your condition? Rouse up, dying saint; when thy soul is come out a
   little farther; when it shall stand like Abraham at its tent door, the
   angels of God shall soon be with it: the souls of the elect are, as it
   were, put out to the angels to nurse, and when they die, these angels
   carry them home again to their father's house: if an angel were caused
   to fly swiftly to bring a saint the answer of his prayer, Dan. ix. 22,
   how much more will the angels come post from heaven to receive and
   transfer the praying soul itself?

   Arg. 4. Farther, It may much conduce to thy willingness to die, to
   consider, That by death, God oftentimes hides his people out of the way
   of all temptations and troubles upon earth, Rev. xiv. 13, Write, from
   henceforth, blessed are the dead which die in the Lord. It is God's
   usual way, when some extraordinary calamities are coming upon the
   world, to set his people out of harm's way before-hand, Isa. lvii. 1,
   2. Merciful men are taken away from the evil to come. See, Mic. vii. 1,
   2; when such an evil time comes as is there described, that they all
   lie in wait for blood, and every man hunts his brother in a net: God by
   an act of favour houses his people before-hand. Dost thou know what
   evil may be in the earth which thou art so loth to leave? Thy God
   removes thee from thy great advantage; thou art disbanded by death, and
   called off the field; other poor saints must stand to it, and endure a
   great fight of afflictions.

   It is observed, that Methuselah died the very year before the flood;
   Augustine, a little before the sacking of Hippo; Pareus, just before
   the taking of Heidelburgh: Luther observes that all the apostles died
   before the destruction of Jerusalem: and Luther himself before the wars
   broke out in Germany. It may be the Lord sees thy tender heart cannot
   endure to see the misery, or bear the temptations that are coming, and
   therefore will now gather thee to thy grave in peace; and yet wilt thou
   cry, O spare me a little longer?

   Arg. 5. If yet thy heart hang back, consider the great advantage you
   will have by death, above all that ever you enjoyed on earth; and that,
   1. As to your communion with God: 2. As to your communion with saints.

   1. For your communion with God: the time of perfecting that is now
   come: thy soul shall shortly stand before the face of God, and have the
   immediate emanations and beamings forth of his glory upon it; here thy
   soul is remote from God, the beams of his glory strike it but obliquely
   and feebly, but shortly it will be under the line, and there the sun
   shall stand still, as it did in Gibeon; there shall be no cloudings nor
   declinings of it: O how should this fill thy soul with desires of being
   unclothed!

   2. As for the enjoyment of saints, here indeed we have fellowship with
   them of the lower form; but that fellowship is so dissweetened by
   remaining corruptions, that there is no satisfaction in it: as it is
   the greatest plague that can befal an hypocrite, to live in a pure
   church; so it is the greatest vexation to the spirit of a saint, to
   live in a corrupt and disordered church; but when death hath admitted
   you into that glorious assembly of the spirits of just men made
   perfect, you shall have the desire of your hearts: here you cannot
   fully close one with your own souls. O what discords, jarrings,
   censurings are here? What perfect blessed harmony there! In heaven each
   saint loves another as himself, they are altogether lovely. O my soul
   haste thee away from the lions' dens, from the mountains of Bether,
   from divided saints, to those mountains of myrrh, and hills of
   frankincense: thou art now going to thine own people, as the apostle's
   phrase imports, 2 Cor. v. 8.

   Arg. 6. If this will not do, consider what heavy burdens death will
   ease thy shoulders of.

   In this tabernacle we groan, being burthened. 1. With bodily
   distempers; how true do we find that of Theophrastus, the soul pays a
   dear rent for the tenement it now lives in? But glorified bodies are
   clogged with no indispositions; death is the best physician; it will
   cure thee of all diseases at once. 2. With the indwelling of sin; this
   makes us groan from the very bowels, Rom. vii. 24. But he that is dead,
   is free from sin, Rom. vi. 7. Hath justification destroyed its damning
   power, and sanctification its reigning power? So glorification destroys
   its very being and existence. 3. We groan under temptations here, but
   as soon as we are out of the body, we are out of the reach of
   temptation: when once thou art got into heaven, thou mayest say, now
   Satan, I am there where thou canst not come; for as the damned in hell
   are malo obsormati, so fixed in sin and misery that their condition
   cannot be altered; so glorified saints are bono confirmati, so fixed in
   holiness and glory, that they cannot be shaken. 4. Here we groan under
   various troubles and afflictions, but then the days of our mourning are
   ended. God shall wipe away all tears from our eyes: O then let us haste
   away, that we may be at rest.

   Arg. 7. If still thou linger like Lot in Sodom, then, lastly, examine
   all pleas and pretences for a longer time on earth, why art thou
   unwilling to die?

   Objection 1. O I have many relations in the world, I know not what will
   become of them when I am gone.

   Solution. If thou art troubled about their bodies, and outward
   condition, why should not that word satisfy thee, Jer. xlix. 11. Leave
   thy fatherless children to me, I will keep them alive, and let thy
   widows trust in me? Luther in his last will and testament hath this
   expression, "Lord, thou hast given me wife and children, I have nothing
   to leave them, but I commit them unto thee. O Father of the fatherless
   and judge of widows, Nutri, serva, doce; nourish, keep, and teach
   them." Or art thou troubled for their souls? Thou canst not convert
   them, if thou shouldst live; and God can make thy prayers and counsels
   to live, and take place upon them when thou art dead.

   Objection 2. I would fain live, to do God more service in the world.

   Solution. Well, but if he have no more service for thee to do here, why
   shouldst thou not say with David, If he have no delight to use me any
   further, here am I, let him do what seemeth him good. In this world
   thou hast no more do do, but he is calling thee to an higher service
   and employment in heaven; and what thou wouldst do for him here, he can
   do that by other hands.

   Objection 3. I am not yet fully ready, I am not as a bride completely
   adorned for the bridegroom.

   Solution. Thy justification is complete already, though thy
   sanctification be not so; and the way to make it so, is to die: for
   till then, it will have its defects and wants.

   Objection 4. O but I want assurance: if I had that, I could die
   presently.

   Solution. Yea, there it sticks indeed; but then consider, that an
   hearty willingness to leave all the world to be freed from sin, and be
   with God, is the next way to that desired assurance; no carnal person
   was ever willing to die upon this ground.

   And thus I have finished those cases which so nearly concern the people
   of God, in the several conditions of their life, and taught them how to
   keep their hearts in all. I shall next apply the whole.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

                             I. USE OF INFORMATION

TO HYPOCRITES AND FORMAL PROFESSORS

   You have heard, that the keeping of the heart is the great work of a
   Christian, in which the very soul and life of religion consists, and
   without which all other duties are of no value with God; hence then I
   shall infer, to the consternation of hypocrites, and formal professors,

   1. That the pains and labours which many persons have taken in
   religion, is but lost labour and pains to no purpose, such as will
   never turn to account.

   Many great services have been performed, many glorious works are
   wrought by men, which yet are utterly rejected by God, and shall never
   stand upon record in order to an eternal acceptation, because they took
   no heed to keep their hearts with God in those duties: this is that
   fatal rock, upon which thousands of vain professors have split
   themselves eternally; they are curious about the externals of religion,
   but regardless of their hearts. O how many hours have some professors
   spent in hearing, praying, reading, conferring! and yet, as to the main
   end of religion, as good they had sat still and done nothing; for all
   this signifies nothing, the great work, I mean heart work, being all
   the while neglected. Tell me, thou vain professor, when didst thou shed
   a tear for the deadness, hardness, unbelief, or earthliness of thy
   heart? Thinkest thou, such an easy religion can save thee? If so, we
   may invert Christ's words, and say, Wide is the gate, and broad is the
   way, that leadeth to life, and many there be that go in thereat. Hear
   me, thou self deluding hypocrite, thou that hast put off God with
   heartless duties, thou that hast acted in religion as if thou hadst
   been blessing an idol, that could not search and discover thy heart;
   thou that hast offered to God but the skin of the sacrifice, not the
   marrow, fat, and inwards of it; how wilt thou abide the coming of the
   Lord? How wilt thou hold up thy head before him, when he shall say. O
   thou dissembling false-hearted man! how couldst thou profess religion?
   With what face couldst thou so often tell me that thou lovedst me, when
   thou knewest all the while in thine own conscience, that thine heart
   was not with me? O tremble to think what a fearful judgment it is to be
   given over to a heedless and careless heart; and then to have religious
   duties, instead of a rattle, to quiet and still the conscience!

   2. Hence I also infer, for the humiliation even of upright hearts, That
   unless the people of God spend more time and pains about their hearts
   than generally and ordinarily they do, they are never like to do God
   much service, or be the owners of much comfort in this world.

   I may say of that Christian that is remiss and careless in keeping his
   heart, as Jacob said of Reuben, Thou shalt not excel. It grieves me to
   see how many Christians there are that go up and down dejected and
   complaining, that live live at a poor low rate, both of service and
   comfort; and how can they expect it should be otherwise, as long as
   they live at such a careless rate? O how little of their time is spent
   in the closet, in searching, humbling, and quickening their hearts!

   You say your hearts are dead; and do you wonder they are so, as long as
   you keep them not with the fountain of life? If your bodies had been
   dieted as your souls have been, they would have been dead too; never
   expect better hearts, till you take more pains with them: Qui fugit
   molam, fugit farinam; he that will not have the sweat, must not expect
   the sweet of religion.

   O Christians! I fear your zeal and strength have run in the wrong
   channel; I fear most of us may take up the church's complaint, Cant. i.
   6, They have made me the keeper of the vineyards, but mine own vineyard
   have I not kept. Two things have eaten up the time and strength of the
   professors of this generation, and sadly diverted them from heart work:
   1. fruitless controversies started by Satan, I doubt not to this very
   purpose, to take us off from practical godliness, to make us puzzle our
   heads, when we should be searching our hearts. O how little have we
   minded that of the apostle, Heb. xiii. 9, It is a good thing, that the
   heart be established with grace, and not with meats; that is, with
   disputes and controversies about meats, which have not profited them
   that have been occupied therein.

   O how much better is it to see men live exactly, than to hear them
   dispute subtilly! These unfruitful questions, how have they rended the
   churches, wasted time and spirits, and called Christians off from their
   main business, from looking to their own vineyard? What think ye, sirs?
   Had it not been better if the questions agitated among the people of
   God of late days, had been such as these? How shall a man discern the
   special from the common operations of the Spirit? How may a soul
   discern its first declinings from God? How may a backsliding Christian
   recover his first love? How may the heart be preserved from
   unseasonable thoughts in duty? How may a bosom-sin be discovered and
   mortified? &c. Would not this have tended more to the credit of
   religion and comfort of your soul? O it is time to repent and be
   ashamed of this folly! When I read what Suarez, a papist, said, who
   wrote many tomes of disputations, that he prized the time he set apart
   for the searching and examining of his heart, in reference to God,
   above all the time that ever he spent in other studies; I am ashamed to
   find the professors of this age yet insensible of their folly. Shall
   the conscience of a Suarez feel a relenting pang for strength and time
   so ill employed, and shall not yours? This it is your ministers long
   since warned you of; your spiritual nurses were afraid of the rickets,
   when they saw your heads only to grow, and your hearts to wither. O
   when will God beat our swords into ploughshares! I mean, our disputes
   and contentions, into practical Godliness. 2. Another cause of
   neglecting our hearts hath been earthly incumbrances; the heads and
   hearts of many have been filled with such a crowd and noise of worldly
   business, that they have sadly and sensibly declined and withered in
   their zeal, love, and delight in God; in their heavenly serious and
   profitable way of conversing with man.

   O how hath this wilderness entangled us! our discourses and
   conferences, nay, our very prayers and duties, have a tang of it: we
   have had so much work without doors, that we have been able to do but
   little within. It was the sad complaint of an holy one, `O, saith he,
   it is sad to think how many precious opportunities I have lost, how
   many sweet motions and admonitions of the Spirit I have passed over
   unfruitfully, and made the Lord to speak in vain; in the secret
   illapses of his Spirit the Lord hath called upon me, but my worldly
   thoughts did still lodge within me, and there was no place in my heart
   for such calls of God.' Surely there is a way of enjoying God, even in
   our worldly employments; God would never have put us upon them to our
   loss; Enoch walked with God, and begat sons and daughters, Gen. v. 22.
   He walked with God, but did not retire and separate himself from the
   things of this life: and the angels, that are employed by Christ in the
   things of this world (for the spirit of the living creatures is in the
   wheels) they are finite creatures, and cannot be in a twofold Ubi at
   one time; yet they lose nothing of the beatifical vision, all the time
   of their administration; for, Mat. xviii. 10. their angels (even whilst
   they are employed for them) behold the face of their Father which is in
   heaven. We need not lose our visions by our employments, if the fault
   were not our own. Alas! that ever Christians, who stand at the door of
   eternity, and have more work upon their hands than this poor moment of
   interposing time is sufficient for, should yet be filling our heads and
   hearts with trifles.

   3. Hence also I infer, for the awakening of all, That if the keeping of
   the heart be the great work of a Christian, then there are but few real
   Christians in the world.

   Indeed if every one that hath learned the dialect of Christianity, and
   can talk like a saint; if every one that hath gifts and parts, and by
   the common assisting presence of the spirit, can preach, pray or
   discourse like a Christian; in a word, if such as associate themselves
   with the people of God, and delight in ordinances, might pass for
   Christians, the number then is great.

   But, alas! to what a small number will they shrink, if you judge them
   by this rule! how few are there that make conscience of keeping their
   hearts, watching their thoughts, judging their ends, &c. O there be but
   few closet men among professors! it is far easier for men to be
   reconciled to any duties in religion, than to these: the profane part
   of the world will not so much as touch with the outside of religious
   duties, much less to this; and for the hypocrite, though he be polite
   and curious about those externals, yet you can never persuade him to
   this inward work, this difficult work: to which there is no inducement
   by human applause; this work, that would quickly discover what
   hypocrites care not to know; so that by a general consent, this heart
   work is left to the hands of a few secret ones, and I tremble to think
   in how few hands it is.
     __________________________________________________________________

                             II. USE OF EXHORTATION

MOTIVES BY WAY OF INDUCEMENT TO

KEEP THE HEART

   If the keeping of the heart be so important a business; if such choice
   advantages accrue to you thereby; if so many dear and precious
   interests be wrapt up in it, then let me call upon the people of God
   every where to fall close to this work.

   O study your hearts, watch your hearts, keep your hearts! away with
   fruitless controversies and all idle questions; away with empty names
   and vain shews; away with unprofitable discourse and bold censures of
   others; turn in upon yourselves; get into your closets, and now resolve
   to dwell there. You have been strangers to this work too long; you have
   kept others vineyards too long, you have trifled about the borders of
   religion too long; this world hath detained you from your great work
   too long; will you now resolve to look better to your hearts? Will you
   haste and come out of the crowds of business, and clamours of the
   world, and retire yourselves more than you have done? O that this day
   you would resolve upon it!

   Reader, methinks I should prevail with thee: all that I beg for is but
   this, that thou wouldst step a little oftener to talk with God, and
   thine own heart; that thou wouldst not suffer every trifle to divert
   thee; that thou wouldst keep a more true and faithful account of thy
   thoughts and affections; that thou wouldst but seriously demand of
   thine own heart, at least every evening, O my heart, where hast thou
   been to day? Whither hast thou made a road to day? If all that hath
   been said by way of inducement be not enough, I have yet more motives
   to offer you. And the first is this:

   1. Motive. The studying, observing, and diligent keeping of your own
   hearts, will marvellously help your understanding in the deep mysteries
   of religion.

   An honest well experienced heart, is a singular help to a weak head;
   such a heart will serve you instead of a commentary upon a great part
   of the scriptures: by this means you shall far better understand the
   things of God, than the learned rabbis and profound doctors (if
   graceless and unexperienced) ever did; you shall not only have a more
   clear, but a more sweet perception and gust of them: a man may
   discourse orthodoxly and profoundly of the nature and effects of faith,
   the troubles and comforts of conscience, the sweetness of communion
   with God, that never felt the efficacy and sweet impressions of these
   things upon his own spirit: But, O how dark and dry are these notions,
   compared with his upon whose heart they have been acted! When such a
   man reads David's psalms, or Paul's epistles, there he finds hos own
   objections made and answered. O, said he, these holy men speak my very
   heart: their doubts were mine, their troubles mine, and their
   experiences mine. I remember Chrysostom, speaking to his people of
   Antioch about some choice experiences, used this expression: Sciunt
   initiati quid dico: those that are initiated, know what I say:
   experience is the best school-master. O then, study your hearts, keep
   your hearts!

   Motive 2. The study and observation of your own hearts will antidote
   you against the dangerous and infecting errors of the times and places
   you live in.

   For what think you is the reason that so many professors in England
   have departed from the faith, giving heed to fables; that so many
   thousands have been led away by the error of the wicked; that Jesuits
   and Quakers, who have sown corrupt doctrine, have had such plentiful
   harvests among us, but because they have met with a company of empty
   notional professors, that never knew what belongs to practical
   godliness, and the study and study of their own hearts.

   If professors did but give diligence to study, search and watch their
   own hearts, they would have that steadfastness of their own, that Peter
   speaks of, 1 Pet. iii. 17, and this would ballast and settle them, Heb.
   xiii. 9. Suppose a subtil Papist would talk to such, of the dignity and
   merit of good works, could he ever work the persuasion of it into that
   heart, that is conscious to itself of so much darkness, deadness,
   distraction and unbelief attending its best duties? It is a good rule,
   Non est disputandum de gustus: there is no disputing against taste.
   What a man hath felt and tasted, one cannot beat him off from that by
   argument.

   Motive 3. Your care and diligence in keeping your hearts, will prove
   one of the best evidences of your sincerity.

   I know no external act of religion that differences the sound from the
   unsound professor: it is wonderful to consider, how far hypocrites go
   in all external duties; how plausibly they can order the outward man,
   hiding all their indecencies from the observation of the world.

   But then, they take no heed to their hearts; they are not in secret
   what they appear to be in public; and before this trial no hypocrite
   can stand: it is confessed, they may in a fit, under a pang upon a
   death-bed, cry out of the wickedness of their hearts; but, alas! there
   is no heed to be taken to these extorted complaints: in our law, no
   credit is to be given to the testimony of one upon the rack, because it
   may be supposed that the extremity of the torture may make him say any
   thing to be eased. But, if self-jealousy, care, and watchfulness be the
   daily workings and frames of thy heart, it strongly argues the
   sincerity of it: for what but the sense of a divine eye, what but the
   real hatred of sin as sin, could put thee upon those secret duties,
   which lie out of the observation of all creatures?

   If then it be a desirable thing in thine eyes to have a fair testimony
   of thine integrity, and to know of a truth that thou fearest God: then
   study thy heart, watch thy heart, keep thy heart.

   Motive 4. How fruitful, sweet, and comfortable would all ordinances and
   duties be to us, if our hearts were better kept?

   O what precious communion might you have with God, every time you
   approach him, if your hearts were but in frame! You might then say,
   with David, Psal. civ. 34, My meditation of him shall be sweet. That
   which loses all our comforts in ordinances and more secret duties, is
   the indisposedness of the heart: a Christian whose heart is in a good
   frame, gets the start of all others that come with him in that duty.
   They strive hard to get up their hearts to God, now trying this
   argument upon them, and then that, to quicken and affect them; and
   sometimes go away as bad as they came. Sometimes the duty is almost
   ended before their hearts begin to stir or feel any warmth, quickening,
   or power from it; but all this while the prepared heart is at its work;
   this is he that ordinarily gets the first sight of Christ in a sermon,
   the first seal from Christ in a sacrament, the first kiss from Christ
   in secret prayer. I tell you, and I tell you but what I have felt, that
   prayers and sermons would appear to you other manner of things than
   they do, did you but bring better ordered hearts unto them; you would
   not go away dejected and drooping. O this hath been a lost day, a lost
   duty to me; if you had not lost your hearts, it had not been so: if
   then the comfort of ordinances be sweet, look to your hearts, keep your
   hearts.

   Motive 5. Acquaintance with your own hearts would be a fountain of
   matter to you in prayer.

   A man that is diligent in heart-work, and knows the state of his own
   soul, will have a fountain-fulness of matter to supply him richly in
   all his addresses to God; his tongue shall not falter, and make pauses
   for want of matter; Psal. xlv. 1, My heart is indicting a good matter;
   Or, as Montanus renders the original, my heart is boiling up good
   matter like a living spring, that is still bubbling up fresh water; and
   then my tongue is as the pen of a ready writer: others must pump their
   memory, rack their inventions, and are often at a loss, when they have
   done all; but if thou have kept, and faithfully have studied thine own
   heart, it will be with thee (as Job speaks in another case) like
   bottles full of new wine that want vent, which are ready to burst: as
   holy matter flows plentifully, so more feelingly and sweetly from such
   a heart. When a heart-experienced Christian is mourning before God over
   some special heart-corruption, wrestling with God for the supply of
   some special inward want, he speaks not as other men do, that have
   learned to pray by rote; their confessions and petitions are squeezed
   out, his drop freely, like pure honey from the comb: it is a happiness
   then to be with or near such a Christian. I remember Bernard, having
   given rules to prepare the heart for prayer, concludes them thus, Et
   cum talis fueris memento mei; and saith he, when thy heart is in this
   frame, then remember me.

   Motive 6. By this the decayed power of religion will be recovered again
   among professors, which is the most desirable sight in this world.

   O that I might live to see that day, when professors shall not walk in
   a vain shew, when they shall please themselves no more with a name to
   live, being spiritually dead! when they shall be no more (as many of
   them now are) a company of frothy, vain, and unserious persons; but the
   majestic beams of holiness, shining from their heavenly and serious
   conversations, shall awe the world and command reverence from all that
   are about them; when they shall warm the hearts of those that come nigh
   them; so that men shall say, God is in these men of a truth.

   Well, such a time may again be expected, according to that promise,
   Isa. lx. 21. The people shall be all righteous. But till we pursue
   closer this great work of keeping our hearts, I am out of hopes to see
   those blessed days; I cannot expect better times, till God gives better
   hearts. Doth it not grieve you to see what a scorn religion is made in
   the world? What objects of contempt and scorn the professors of it are
   made in the world.

   Professors, would you recover your credit? Would you again obtain an
   honourable testimony in the consciences of your very enemies? Then,
   keep your hearts, watch your hearts: it is the looseness, frothiness,
   and earthliness of your hearts, that hath made your lives so; and this
   hath brought you under contempt of the world; you first lost your
   sights of God, and communion with him, then your heavenly and serious
   deportment among men, and by that, your interest in their consciences:
   O then, for the credit of religion, for the honour of your profession,
   keep your hearts!

   Motive 7. By diligence in keeping our hearts, we should prevent, and
   remove the fatal scandals and stumbling-blocks out of the way of the
   world.

   Woe to the world (saith Christ) because of offences! Mat. xviii. 7.
   Doth not shame cover your faces? Do not your hearts bleed within you,
   to hear of the scandalous miscarriages of many loose professors? Could
   you not, like Shem and Japhet, go backward with a garment to cover the
   shame of many professors? How is that worthy name blasphemed? Jam. ii.
   7, 2 Sam. xii. 13, 14. The hearts of the righteous saddened? Psal. xxv.
   3, Ezek. xxxvi. 20. By this the world is fearfully prejudiced against
   Christ and religion; the bonds of death made fast upon their souls;
   those that have a general love and liking to the ways of God, startled
   and quite driven back, and thus soul-blood is shed: woe to the world!

   Yea, how are the consciences of fallen professors plunged and even
   overwhelmed in the deeps of trouble? God inwardly excommunicating their
   souls from all comfortable fellowship with himself, and the joys of his
   salvation: infinite are the mischiefs that come by the scandalous lives
   of professors.

   And what is the true cause and reason of all this, but the neglecting
   of their hearts? Were our hearts better kept, all this would be
   prevented. Had David kept his heart, he had not broken his bones; a
   negligent and careless heart must of necessity produce a disorderly
   scandalous life. I thank God for the freedom and faithfulness of a
   reverend brother in shewing professors their manifold miscarriages; and
   from my heart do wish, that when their wounds have been thoroughly
   searched by that probe, God would be pleased to heal them by this
   plaster. O professors! if ever you will keep religion sweet; if ever
   you hope to recover the credit of it in the world, keep your hearts;
   either keep your hearts, or loose your credit; keep your hearts, or
   loose your comforts; keep your hearts, lest you shed soul-blood. What
   words can express the deep concernments, the wonderful consequences of
   this work! Every thing puts a necessity, a solemnity, a beauty upon it.

   Motive 8. An heart well kept will fit you for any condition God casts
   you into, or any service he hath to use you in.

   He that hath learnt how to keep his heart lowly, is fit for prosperity;
   and he that knows how to use and apply to it scripture-promises and
   supports, is fit to pass through any adversity: he that can deny the
   pride and selfishness of his heart is fit to be employed in any service
   for God. Such a man was Paul: he did not only spend his time in
   preaching to others, in keeping others vineyards, but he looked to
   himself, kept his own vineyard, 1 Cor. ix. 27; Lest when I have
   preached to others, I myself should be a cast-away. And what an eminent
   instrument was he for God? He could turn his hand to any work; he could
   dexterously manage both in adverse and prosperous condition; I know how
   to abound, and how to suffer want. Let the people deify him, it moves
   him not, unless to indignation. Let them stone him, he can bear it: If
   a man purge himself from these (saith he, 2 Tim. ii. 21) he shall be a
   vessel unto honour, sanctified, and meet for the master's use, and
   prepared unto every good work.

   First, the heart must be purged; and then it is prepared for any
   service of God. When the heart of Isaiah was purified, which was the
   thing signified by the touching of his lips with a coal from the altar,
   Isa. vi. 7. then he was fit for God's work: Here am I, send me, v. 8. A
   man that hath not learned to keep his heart, put him upon any service
   for God, and if it be attended with honour, it shall swell up and
   overtop his spirit; if with suffering, it will exanimate and sink him.

   Jesus Christ had an instrumental fitness for his Father's work above
   all the servants that ever God employed; he was zealous in public work
   for God, so zealous that he sometimes forgot to eat bread, yea, that
   his friends thought he had been besides himself: but yet he so carried
   on his public work, as not to forget his own private communion with
   God: and therefore you read, Mat. xiv. 23. that when he had been
   labouring all day, yet after that, he went up to a mountain apart to
   pray, and was there alone. O let the keepers of the vineyards look to
   their own vineyard! We shall never be so instrumental to the good of
   others, as when we are most diligent about our own souls.

   Motive 9. If the people of God would more diligently keep their hearts,
   how exceedingly would the communion of saints thereby be sweetened.

   How goodly then would be thy tents, O Jacob, and thy tabernacles, O
   Israel: then, as it is prophesied of the Jews, Zech. viii. 23. men
   would say, We will go with you, for we have heard that God is among
   you. It is the fellowship your souls have with the Father, and with the
   Son, that draws out the desires of others after fellowship with you, 1
   John i. 3. I tell you, if saints would be persuaded to take more pains,
   and spend more time about their hearts, there would quickly be such a
   divine lustre upon the face of their conversations, that men would
   account it no small privilege to be with, or near them.

   It is the pride, passion, and earthliness of our hearts that have
   spoiled Christian fellowship. Whence is it, that when Christians meet,
   they are often jarring and contending? but only for their unmortified
   passions: whence are their uncharitable censures of their brethren? but
   only from self-ignorance: why are they so rigid and unmerciful towards
   those that are fallen? but because they consider not themselves, as the
   apostle speaks, Gal. vi. 1. Why is their discourse so frothy and
   unprofitable when they meet? is not this from the earthliness and
   vanity of their hearts?

   My brethren, these be the things that have spoiled Christian
   fellowship, and made it become a dry and sapless thing; so that many
   Christians are even weary of it, and are ready to say, with the
   prophet, Jer. ix. 2. O that I had a cottage in the wilderness, &c. that
   I might leave my people, and go from them! and, with David, Psal. cxx.
   6. My soul hath long dwelt with them that hate peace. This hath made
   them long for the grave, that they might go from them that are not
   their own people, to them that are their own people, as the original of
   that text imports, 2 Cor. v. 8.

   But now if professors would study their own hearts more, watch and keep
   them better, all this would be prevented; and the beauty and glory of
   communion again restored: they would divide no more, contend no more,
   censure rashly no more; when their hearts are in tune, their tongues
   will not jar; how charitable, pitiful and tender will they be of one
   another, when every one is daily humbled under the evil of his own
   heart. Lord, hasten those much desired days, and bless these counsels
   in order to them.

   Motive 10. Lastly, By this the comforts of the Spirit, and precious
   influences of all ordinances, would be fixed, and much longer preserved
   in your souls, than now they are.

   Ah! what would I give, that my soul might be preserved in that frame I
   sometimes find it after an ordinance! Aliquando intromittis me Domine
   in affectum multum inusiatum, intorsus ad quam nescio dulcedinem, &c.
   Sometimes, O Lord (saith one of the fathers sweetly) thou admittest me
   into the most inward, unusual and sweet delights, to I know not what
   sweetness, which, were it perfected in me, I know not what it would be,
   or rather what it would not be: But, alas! the heart grows careless
   again, and quickly returns, like water removed from the fire, to its
   native coldness. Could you but keep those things for ever in your
   hearts, what Christians would you be, what lives would you live! and
   how is it that these things remain no longer with us? Doubtless it is
   because we suffer our hearts to take cold again: we should be as
   careful after an ordinance or duty to prevent this, as one that comes
   out of a hot bath, or great sweat, is of going out into the chill air.
   We have our hot and cold fits by turns; and what is the reason, but our
   unskillfulness and carelessness in keeping the heart?

   It is a thousand pities, that the ordinances of God, as to their
   quickening and comforting effects, should be like those human
   ordinances the apostle speaks of, that perish in the using. O then, let
   me say to you, as Job xv. 11. Do the consolations of God seem small to
   you? Look over these ten special benefits; weigh them in a just
   balance; are they small matters? Is it a small matter to have thy weak
   understanding assisted? thy endangered soul antidoted, thy sincerity
   proved, thy communion with God sweetened, thy sails filled in prayer?
   Is it a small thing to have the decayed power of godliness again
   recovered, all fatal scandals removed, an instrumental fitness to serve
   Christ obtained, the communion of saints restored to its primitive
   glory, and the influences of ordinances abiding in the souls of saints?
   If these be no common blessings, no small benefits, then surely it is a
   great duty to keep the heart with all diligence.
     __________________________________________________________________

                             III. USE OF DIRECTION

CHOICE MEANS TO

KEEP THE HEART

   The next use shall be for direction to some special means for the
   keeping of the heart. And here, besides what hath been hinted in the
   explication of the duty, at the beginning of this discourse, to which I
   refer the reader, and all those directions throughout the whole,
   appropriated to particular cases and seasons; I shall further add
   several other general means of excellent use to this end. And the first
   is this,

   Means 1. Would you thus keep your hearts as hath been persuaded? then
   furnish your hearts richly with the word of God, which is their best
   preservative against sin.

   Keep the word and the word will keep you: as the first receiving of the
   word regenerated your hearts, so the keeping of the word within you,
   will preserve your hearts; Col. iii. 16. Let the word of Christ dwell
   richly in you; let it dwell, not tarry with you for a night, and let it
   dwell richly or plentifully, in all that is of it, in its commands,
   promises, threats; in all that is in you, in your understandings,
   memories, consciences, affections; and then it will preserve your
   hearts; Psal. cxix. 11. Thy word have I hid in my heart, that I might
   not sin against thee. It is the slipperiness of our hearts, in
   reference to the word, that causes so many slips in our lives.
   Conscience cannot be urged or awed with forgotten truths; but keep it
   in the heart, and it will keep both heart and life upright; Psal.
   xxxvii. 31. The law of his God is in his heart, none of his steps shall
   slide; or if he do, the word will recover the straying heart again;
   Mat. xxvi. 75. Then Peter remembered the words of Jesus and wept
   bitterly. We never lose our hearts, till they have first lost the
   efficacious and powerful impressions of the word.

   Means 2. Call your hearts frequently to account; if ever you mean to
   keep them with God.

   Those that put a stock into the hands of unfaithful or suspicious
   servants, will be sure to make short reckonings with them; the heart is
   deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked, Jer. xvii. 9. O it
   is as necessary, as sweet, that we and our reins, that is, we and our
   secret thoughts, should confer together every night, Psal. xvi. 7. We
   should call our hearts to account every evening, and say, O my heart,
   where hast thou been today? Where have thy thoughts been wandering to
   day? What account canst thou give of them? O naughty heart! vain heart!
   couldst thou not abide by the fountain of delights? Is there better
   entertainment with the creature than with God? The oftener the heart
   meets with rebukes and checks for wandering, the less it will wander:
   if every vain thought were retracted with a sigh, every excursion of
   the heart from God with a severe check, it would not dare so boldly and
   frequently to digress and step aside; those actions which are committed
   with reluctance are not committed with frequency.

   Means 3. He that will keep his heart, must take heed of plunging
   himself into such a multiplicity of earthly business, as he cannot
   manage without neglecting his main business.

   It cannot be imagined, he should keep his heart with God, that hath
   lost himself in a wood of earthly business: take heed you do not pinch
   your souls, by gratifying the immoderate desires of your flesh. I wish
   many Christians could truly say, what an Heathen once did, I do not
   give, but only lend myself to business. It is said Germanicus reigned
   in the Roman hearts; Tiberius only in their provinces. Though the world
   be in your hands, let it not justle Christ out of your hearts.

   Take heed, Christian, lest thy shop steal away thy heart from thy
   closet. God never intended earthly employments for a stop, but rather
   for a step to heavenly ones. O let not Aristippus, the Heathen, arise
   in judgment against thee, who said, He would rather neglect his means
   than his mind, his farm than his soul. If thy ship be overladen, thou
   must cast some over-board; more business than thou canst well manage,
   is like more meat than thou canst well digest, which will quickly make
   a sickly soul.

   Means 4. He that means to keep his heart, must carefully observe its
   first declinings from God, and stop it there.

   He that will find his house in good repair, must stop every chink as
   soon as discovered; and he that would keep his heart must not let a
   vain thought be long neglected: the serpent of heart apostasy is best
   killed in the egg of a small remission. Oh! if many poor decayed
   Christians had looked to their hearts in time, they had never come to
   that sad pass they now are! we may say of heart-neglects, as the
   apostle doth of vain babblings; that they increase to more and more
   ungodliness. Nemo repente fit turpissimus; Little sins neglected, will
   quickly become great and masterless; the greatest crocodile once lay in
   an egg, the greatest oak was once but an acorn. The firing of a small
   train of powder may blow up all, by leading to a greater quantity. Men
   little think what a proud, vain, wanton, or worldly thought may grow
   to: behold how great a matter a little fire kindles!

   Means 5. Take heed of losing the liveliness and sweetness of your
   communion with God, lest thereby your hearts be loosed off from God.

   The heart is an hungry and restless thing; it will have something to
   feed upon; if it enjoy nothing from God, it will hunt for something
   among the creatures, and there it often loses itself, as well as its
   end. There is nothing more engages the heart to a constancy and
   evenness in walking with God, than the sweetness which it tastes
   therein: as the Gauls, when once they tasted the sweet wine of Italy,
   could never be satisfied till they conquered that country where it
   grew.

   It is true, conscience of duty may keep the heart from neglecting it;
   but when there is no higher motive, it drives on deadly, and is filled
   with distractions; that which we delight in, we are never weary of, as
   is evident in the motions of the heart to earthly things, where the
   wheels, being oiled with delight, run nimbly, and have often need of
   trigging; the motions of the heart upward would be as free, if its
   delight in heavenly things were as great.

   Means 6. Habituate thy heart to spiritual meditations, if thou wouldst
   have it freed from those burdensome diversions.

   By this means you will get a facility and dexterity in heartwork: it is
   pity those smaller portions of our time betwixt solemn duties should
   lie upon our hands, and be rendered useless to us. O learn to save, and
   be good husbands upon your thoughts. To this purpose, a neat author
   speaks, "These parentheses, which happen to come between the more
   solemn passages (whether business or recreation) of human life, are
   wont to be lost by most men, for want of a due value for them, and even
   by good men, for want of skill to preserve them; for though they do not
   properly despise them, yet they neglect, or lose them, for want of
   knowing how to rescue them, or what to do with them: but although
   grains of sand and ashes be apart but of a despicable smallness, and
   liable to be scattered and blown away, yet the skilful artificer, by a
   vehement fire, brings numbers of these to afford him that noble
   substance, glass, by whose help we may both see ourselves, and our
   blemishes lively represented, (as in looking-glasses) and discern
   celestial objects (as with the telescopes) and with sunbeams kindle
   disposed materials (as with burning-glasses): so when these little
   fragments, or parcels of time, which if not carefully looked to, would
   be dissipated and lost, come to be managed by a skilful contemplator,
   and to be improved by the celestial fire of devotion, they may be so
   ordered as to afford us both looking-glasses to dress our souls by, and
   prospectives to discover heavenly wonders, and incentives to inflame
   our hearts with zeal." Thus far he.

   Something of that nature I have under hand, for a public benefit, if
   God give life to finish, and opportunity to produce it: certainly this
   is a great advantage for the keeping of the heart with God.
     __________________________________________________________________

                             IV. USE OF CONSOLATION

FOR SUPPORT AND COMFORT IN

KEEPING THE HEART

   I shall now close the whole with a word or two of consolation to all
   diligent and serious Christians, that faithfully and closely ply
   heart-work; that are groaning and weeping in secret over the hardness,
   pride, earthliness and vanity of their hearts; that are fearing and
   trembling over the experienced deceitfulness and falseness of them,
   whilst other vain professors eyes are abroad, their time and strength
   eaten up by fruitless disputes, and earthly employments, or, at best by
   a cold and formal performance of some heartless and empty duties. Poor
   Christian! I have three things to offer thee in order to thy support
   and comfort; and doubtless either of them alone mixed with faith is
   sufficient to comfort thee over all the trouble thou hast with thine
   own heart.

   Comfort 1. This argues thy heart to be upright and honest, whatever thy
   other gifts and abilities are.

   It is uprightness of heart will comfort thee upon a death-bed, 2 Kings
   xx. 2,3. Then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed to the Lord,
   saying, remember now, O Lord, how I have walked before thee in truth,
   and with a perfect heart, &c.

   I am really of his mind, who said, si mihi daretur optio, eligerem
   Christiani rustici sordidissimum et maxime agreste opus prae omnibus
   victoriis et triumphis Alexandri aut Caesaris; might I have my wish, I
   would prefer the most despicable and sordid work of a rustic Christian,
   before all the victories and triumphs of Alexander or Caesar; yea, let
   me add, before all the elaborated duties and excellent gifts of vain
   professors; before the tongues of men and angels. It will signify more
   to my comfort to spend one solitary hour in mourning before the Lord
   over heart-corruption, than many hours in a seeming zealous, but really
   dead, performance of common duties, with the greatest enlargements and
   richest embellishments of parts and gifts.

   By this very thing Christ distinguishes the formal and serious
   Christian, Mat. vi. 5. The one is for the street and synagogue, for the
   observation and applause of men, but the other is a closet-man, he
   drives on a home-trade, a heart-trade. Never be troubled then for the
   want of those things that a man may have, and be eternally damned; but
   rather bless God for that which none but the favourites and darlings of
   heaven have. Many an one is now in hell that had a better head than
   thine; and many an one now in heaven that complained of as bad an heart
   as thine.

   Comfort 2. Know further for thy comfort, that God would never leave
   thee under so many heart-troubles and burdens, if he intend not thy
   real benefit thereby.

   Thou art often crying out, Lord! why is it thus? why go I mourning all
   the day, having sorrow in my heart? Thus long have I been exercised
   with hardness of heart, and to this day have not obtained a broken
   heart. Many years have I been praying and striving against vain
   thoughts, yet am still infested and perplexed with them. O when shall I
   get a better heart! I have been in travail, and brought forth but wind;
   I have obtained no deliverance, neither have the corruptions of my
   heart fallen! I have brought this heart many times to prayers, sermons,
   sacraments, expecting and hoping for a cure from them, and still my
   sore runneth, and ceaseth not.

   Pensive soul! let this comfort thee; thy God designs thy benefit, even
   by these occasions of thy sad complaints. For, 1st, hereby he would let
   thee see what thy heart by nature is and was, and therein take notice
   how much thou art beholding to free grace. He leaves thee under these
   exercises of spirit, that thou mayest lie, as with thy face upon the
   ground, admiring that ever the Lord of glory should take so vile a
   creature into his bosom. Thy base heart, if it be good for nothing
   else, yet serves to commend and set off the unsearchable riches of free
   grace. 2d. This serves to beat thee off continually from resting, yea,
   or but glancing, upon thine own righteousness or excellency. The
   corruption of thy heart, working in all thy duties, makes thee sensibly
   to feel that the bed is too short, and the covering too narrow. Were it
   not for those reflections thou hast after duties, upon the dullness and
   distractions of thine heart in them; how apt wouldst thou be to fall in
   love with, and admire thine own performances and enlargements? For, it,
   notwithstanding these, thou hast much to do with the pride of thy
   heart, how much more, if such humbling and self-abasing considerations
   were wanting! And, lastly, this tends to make thee the more
   compassionate and tender towards others: perhaps thou wouldst have
   little pity for the distresses and soul troubles of others, if thou
   hadst less experience of thine own.

   Comfort 3. To conclude, God will shortly put a blessed end to all these
   troubles, cares and watchings.

   The time is coming when thy heart shall be as thou wouldst have it;
   when thou shall be discharged of these cares, fears, and sorrows, and
   never cry out, O my hard, my proud, my vain, my earthly heart, any
   more! when all darkness shall be banished from thine understanding; and
   thou shalt clearly discover all truths in God, that crystal ocean of
   truth: when all vanity shall be purged perfectly out of thy thoughts,
   and they be everlastingly, ravishingly, and delightfully entertained
   and exercised upon that supreme goodness, and infinite excellency of
   God, from whom they shall never start any more like a broken bow. And,
   as for thy pride, passion, earthliness, and all other the matters of
   thy complaint and trouble, it shall be said of them, as of the
   Egyptians to Israel, Stand still, and see the salvation of God. These
   corruptions thou seest to day, henceforth thou shalt see them no more
   for ever; when thou shalt lay down thy weapons of prayers, tears, and
   groans, and put on the armour of light, not to fight, but triumph in.

   Lord! when shall this blessed day come? How long! how long! holy and
   true? My soul waiteth for thee! come, my beloved! and be thou like a
   roe, or a young hart upon the mountains of Bether. Amen.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1] I say constant; for the reason added in the text extends the duty
   to all the states and conditions of a Christian's life, and makes it
   bind ad semper: if the heart must be kept because out of it are the
   issues of life, then as long as these issues of life do flow out of it,
   we are obliged to keep it.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                 A DOUBLE TABLE

    Containing, in the first, the Sins most incident to the Members of
    particular Churches, plainly forbidden in the Word, and for which God sets
    marks of his displeasure on them.--In the second, the duties enjoined on
    them in the Scripture, in the conscientious discharge whereof, they receive
    signal fruits of his favour.
     __________________________________________________________________

FIRST TABLE

   Sin1. The first, and more general sin of church-members, is, a defect
   in their care and circumspection, to prevent all just offences to them
   that are without; forbidden Col. iv. 5. Walk in wisdom towards them
   which are without. By a careless disregard of this rule, we harden the
   wicked in their sins, bring guilt upon ourselves, and reproach upon the
   name and ways of God.

   Sin 2. The second, and more particular sin of some church-members, is
   idleness, and neglect of their civil callings; against the express
   rule, 2 Thess. iii. 11, 12. There are some which walk among you
   disorderly, working not at all: such we command and exhort by our Lord
   Jesus Christ, that with quietness they work, and eat their own bread.
   This brings poverty on themselves, and scandal on religion.

   Sin 3. The third sin is tale-bearing, and revealing the secrets of
   families, and persons; whence many strifes arise, to the cooling and
   quenching of mutual love; expressly forbidden, Lev. xix. 16.Thou shalt
   not go up and down as a tale-bearer among the people. And 1 Tim. v.
   13.Not only idle, but tattlers also and busy-bodies, speaking things
   which they ought not.

   Sin 4. The fourth sin is an easy credulity of private whispers and rash
   censures thereupon. This we ought not to do against the meanest member.
   2 Cor. xii. 20. Lest there be debates, envyings, wraths, strifes,
   backbitings, whisperings, &c. Much less against church officers. 1 Tim.
   v. 19, Against an elder receive not an accusation, but before two or
   three witnesses. This strikes at the bond of peace.

   Sin 5. The fifth sin is their neglect of God's ordinances upon slight
   diversions, when they are neither disabled by works of necessity, or
   mercy; contrary to Heb. x. 25, Not forsaking the assembling of
   ourselves together, as the manner of some is. Trivial occasions should
   divert no Christian from attending upon God's ordinances.

   Sin 6. The sixth sin is a defect in zeal for God's ordinances, manifest
   in their dilatory attendance; contrary to Psal. cxxii. 1, I was glad
   when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. And
   unsuitable to their first practice, Gal. iv. 15. Where is then the
   blessedness? &c.

   Sin 7. The seventh sin is irreverence, and want of seriousness under
   ordinances; contrary to Psal. lxxxix. 7, Gos is greatly to be feared in
   the assembly of the saints; and to be had in reverence of all that are
   round about him. And this is manifest in vain attires, 1 Cor. xi. 10.
   The woman ought to have power on her head, because of the Angels. And
   unseemly postures and gestures, Eccl. v. 1. Keep thy foot, when thou
   goest to the house of God; and be more ready to hear, than to give the
   sacrifice of fools.

   Sin 8. The eighth sin reprovable in them, is, the neglect of giving and
   taking due reproofs from each other; contrary to Lev. xix. 17. Thou
   shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbour, and not suffer sin upon him.
   And Christ's own rule, Matt. xviii. 15. Go, and tell him his fault
   between thee and him alone. And so for taking reproofs, see Psal. cxli.
   5. Let the righteous smite me, &c.

   Sin 9. The ninth sin is, mutual strifes and animosities, not seasonably
   and prudently composed among themselves, but scandalously exposed to
   the view of the world; contrary to the Apostle's rule, 1 Cor. vi. 5, 6.
   Is there not a wise man among you, &c. But brother goeth to law with
   brother, and that before unbelievers? Now therefore, there is utterly a
   fault among you.

   Sin 10. The tenth sin is, the privateness of their spirits, centring
   too much in their own concerns; expressly condemned, Phil. ii. 21. All
   seek their own, not the things that are Jesus Christ's. And contrary to
   scripture-example, 2 Cor. xi. 29. Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who
   is offended, and I burn not?
     __________________________________________________________________

SECOND TABLE

   Duty 1. Their first duty is, to be often together in acts of Christian
   communion, Mal. iii. 16. Then they that feared the Lord, spake often
   one to another, &c. Such meetings, prayer, repetition of sermons, and
   Christian conference greatly conduce to mutual edification; which is
   the principal intention of Christian fellowship, Eph. iv. 15, 16.

   Duty 2. Their second duty is, to follow and back the great design of
   the gospel in the world, and therein assist the public ministry, by
   their private and prudent helping on the conversion of the carnal and
   careless world, Phil. iv. 3. Help those women that laboured with me in
   the gospel, &c. For the Lord Jesus Christ's sake, and for the love of
   the spirit, strive together with me, Rom. xv. 30.

   Duty 3. Their third duty is, humble condescension to the infirmities of
   their weaker brethren, and denying themselves in what they can, without
   sin, that they give them no offence, Rom. xv. 1. We then that are
   strong, ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please
   ourselves. And ver. 2, Let every one of us please his neighbour for his
   good to edification.

   Duty 4. Their fourth duty is, to be exceeding tender of the church's
   unity, both in judgment, love, and practice; avoiding (as much as may
   be, and as far as the gospel rule allows) all calls and occasions of
   division and separation, Rom. xvi. 17. Mark them which cause divisions
   and offences, and avoid them. And Phil. ii. 1, 2, If there be any
   consolation in Christ, &c. be ye like minded.

   Duty 5. Their fifth duty is, a respectful carriage towards the meanest
   Christian, and to have higher esteem of others than themselves.
   External things make no difference with Christ, Rom. xii. 10. In honour
   preferring one another. Gal. iii. 28. Ye are all one in Christ Jesus.
   Yet a decorum is to be kept suitable to civil differences, Eph. v. 21.
   Submitting yourselves to one another in the fear of God.

   Duty 6. Their sixth duty is, meekly to receive reproofs from each other
   for their sins, especially when the matter is just, and the manner of
   delivering it regular, Psal. cxli. 5. Let the righteous smite me, it
   shall be a kindness; and let him reprove me, it shall be an excellent
   oil, &c.

   Duty 7. Their seventh duty is, to communicate their spiritual stock of
   gifts, graces and experiences, not interfering with public offices, nor
   by sinful partiality including some, and excluding many others (to whom
   it is due, and who may have more need) from the benefit thereof, 1 Pet.
   iv. 10. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same
   one to another, 1 Tim. v. 21. Observe these things, without preferring
   one before another, doing nothing by partiality.

   Duty 8. Their eighth duty is, cheerfully to communicate their outward
   good things for the relief of their brethren, Heb. xiii. 16. To do good
   and to communicate forget not. And, the better to enable them hereunto,
   to be diligent in their calling, Eph. iv. 28. Working with his hands,
   that he may have to give to him that needeth. And especially to make
   comfortable provision for their ministers, not by way of courtesy, but
   delay, 1 Cor. ix. 14. Even so hath God ordained that they which preach
   the gospel should live of the gospel.

   Duty 9. Their ninth duty is, not only to relieve the distressed members
   of Christ, but to seek out, and visit them, to know their spiritual and
   temporal wants, in order to a full discharge of that duty, Jam. i. 27.
   Pure religion and undefiled before God, and the Father, is this, to
   visit the fatherless and widows in their afflictions, &c.

   Duty 10. Their tenth duty is, to put charitable constructions upon
   doubtful words and actions; and, if either will admit a double sense,
   always to take it in the fairest, according to the law of charity, 1
   Cor. xiii. 7. Charity beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth
   all things, endureth all things. And, such a charity will defend and
   maintain church peace and unity.
     __________________________________________________________________

SIX BENEFITS

    IN WALKING BY THESE RULES

   Benefit 1. Strict and heedful attendance to these rules, will put a
   lustre upon religion before the world, and make it glorious in the eyes
   of such as now despise it, Tit. ii. 10. Adorn the doctrine of God our
   Saviour in all things. Which he here speaks, to encourage all to
   ordinate walking.

   Benefit 2. This will allure and win the world over to Christ, and
   wonderfully prosper and further the design of the gospel, Phil. ii. 15,
   16. That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God without
   rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, &c. That I may
   rejoin in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither
   laboured in vain.

   Benefit 3. This will effectually stop the mouths of all the detracting
   and blaspheming enemies of religion, 1 Pet. ii. 15. For so is the will
   of God, that with well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of
   foolish men.

   Benefit 4. This will eminently glorify God, which is the ultimate end
   of our beings, Matt. v. 16. Let your light so shine before men, that
   they may see your good works, and glorify your father which is in
   heaven.

   Benefit 5. This will fill the people of God (by way of evidence) which
   much inward peace, Gal. vi. 16. And as many as walk according to this
   rule, peace be on them, and upon the Israel of God.

   Benefit 6. This will secure the presence of God with, and among us;
   whence results both the efficacy of ordinances, and the stability and
   glory of the churches: for Christ walks among the golden candlesticks,
   and threatens the churches, in case of defection from gospel rules, to
   remove the candlestick out of his place, except they repent, Rev. ii.
   1, 5.

  FINIS.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                    Indexes
     __________________________________________________________________

Index of Scripture References

   Genesis

   [1]4:14   [2]5:22   [3]6:5-7   [4]6:7   [5]17:1   [6]17:1   [7]18:27
   [8]21:17   [9]32:7   [10]32:9-10   [11]32:10   [12]32:12

   Exodus

   [13]17:12   [14]19:16   [15]19:18   [16]33:14

   Leviticus

   [17]10:3   [18]19:16   [19]19:17   [20]26:36

   Numbers

   [21]12:3   [22]14:9   [23]14:19   [24]15:27   [25]15:30

   Deuteronomy

   [26]6:10-12   [27]24:12-13   [28]26:5   [29]32:15

   Judges

   [30]6   [31]6:12-13   [32]6:17   [33]6:36

   1 Samuel

   [34]2:1   [35]17:37   [36]24:16-17   [37]25:8

   2 Samuel

   [38]7:14   [39]7:18   [40]7:26   [41]12:13-14   [42]12:13-14
   [43]16:10   [44]19:7

   1 Kings

   [45]8:38   [46]19:4

   2 Kings

   [47]6:33   [48]10:31   [49]20:2-3   [50]20:2-3

   2 Chronicles

   [51]13:6-7   [52]17:3   [53]17:5   [54]17:5-6   [55]20:29   [56]32:26
   [57]32:26

   Ezra

   [58]9:13   [59]10:3

   Nehemiah

   [60]2:2   [61]6:11

   Job

   [62]1:7-8   [63]1:11-12   [64]1:21   [65]5:6   [66]11:13   [67]15:11
   [68]19:3   [69]31:1   [70]31:1   [71]31:1   [72]31:4   [73]31:4
   [74]35:13   [75]38:41

   Psalms

   [76]4:4   [77]5:8   [78]10:14   [79]16:7   [80]18:2   [81]19:8
   [82]19:12   [83]22:2-3   [84]23:1   [85]24:1   [86]25:3   [87]25:11
   [88]27:1   [89]31:22   [90]33:18-19   [91]34:9-10   [92]37:30-31
   [93]37:31   [94]38:2   [95]38:3   [96]38:4   [97]38:5   [98]38:6
   [99]38:7   [100]38:8   [101]39:3-4   [102]45:1   [103]45:1
   [104]45:1   [105]47:7   [106]49:14   [107]51:8   [108]56:3
   [109]57:7   [110]63:5-6   [111]73:3-5   [112]74:14   [113]77:6
   [114]78:8   [115]84:11   [116]86:11   [117]86:11   [118]89:7
   [119]89:7   [120]103:12   [121]103:13   [122]104:34   [123]110:3
   [124]112:7   [125]116:10   [126]119:11   [127]119:11   [128]119:11
   [129]119:36-37   [130]119:37   [131]119:71   [132]119:80
   [133]119:97   [134]119:113   [135]120:6   [136]122:1   [137]130:4
   [138]139:2   [139]139:17-18   [140]141:5   [141]141:5

   Proverbs

   [142]1:32   [143]4:23   [144]5:20-21   [145]13:7   [146]13:10
   [147]15:1   [148]16:32   [149]20:22   [150]23:26   [151]24:29
   [152]25:21   [153]25:21   [154]28:1   [155]28:14

   Ecclesiastes

   [156]4:10-11   [157]5:1   [158]8:12

   Song of Solomon

   [159]1:6   [160]2:8   [161]4:11

   Isaiah

   [162]6:5   [163]6:7   [164]6:8   [165]7:2   [166]8:12-13   [167]9:1
   [168]10:12   [169]11:8   [170]22:12   [171]26:3   [172]27:9
   [173]40:15-17   [174]40:22   [175]41:17   [176]43:1-3   [177]49:14
   [178]49:15   [179]50:10   [180]51:12-13   [181]51:13   [182]53:7
   [183]54:5   [184]55:7   [185]57:1-2   [186]57:2   [187]57:16-17
   [188]57:18   [189]60:13   [190]60:21   [191]63:17   [192]66:3
   [193]66:3

   Jeremiah

   [194]2:3   [195]2:31   [196]2:31   [197]3:22   [198]4:7   [199]4:14
   [200]9:2   [201]10   [202]11   [203]17:5-6   [204]17:9   [205]17:17
   [206]24:5   [207]25:6   [208]29:13   [209]30:21   [210]49:11

   Lamentations

   [211]3:8   [212]3:36   [213]3:40   [214]3:44

   Ezekiel

   [215]1:24-26   [216]33:31   [217]33:31-32   [218]33:31-32   [219]36:20

   Daniel

   [220]9:22

   Hosea

   [221]4:17   [222]12:4   [223]14:4

   Amos

   [224]6:1

   Jonah

   [225]2:4

   Micah

   [226]6:4-5   [227]7:1-2   [228]7:5-6   [229]7:7

   Habakkuk

   [230]1:13   [231]1:14   [232]2:5   [233]3:17

   Zephaniah

   [234]3:12

   Zechariah

   [235]2:8   [236]8:23

   Malachi

   [237]3:16

   Matthew

   [238]5:16   [239]5:22   [240]5:45   [241]6:5   [242]6:15   [243]6:26
   [244]6:32   [245]7:11   [246]10   [247]10:26   [248]10:28
   [249]10:31   [250]11:29   [251]13:3-4   [252]14:23   [253]15:14
   [254]15:19   [255]18:7   [256]18:7   [257]18:10   [258]18:15
   [259]18:32-33   [260]19:22   [261]19:24   [262]24:8-10   [263]24:51
   [264]26:40-41   [265]26:75   [266]26:75

   Mark

   [267]8:38   [268]11:12   [269]14:32   [270]14:38

   Luke

   [271]1:46   [272]6:45   [273]8:17   [274]10:2   [275]12:48
   [276]15:17   [277]18:7   [278]21:9   [279]21:25-26   [280]23:43

   John

   [281]8:21   [282]14:3   [283]15:5   [284]19:11

   Acts

   [285]2:6   [286]8:21   [287]8:21   [288]10:35

   Romans

   [289]1:21   [290]2:4   [291]2:7   [292]5:14   [293]6:6-7   [294]6:7
   [295]7:21   [296]7:24   [297]7:24   [298]8:10-11   [299]8:28
   [300]8:28   [301]8:31   [302]8:32   [303]9:1   [304]12:10
   [305]12:17   [306]12:19   [307]15:1   [308]15:2   [309]15:30
   [310]16:17

   1 Corinthians

   [311]1:26   [312]4:11   [313]4:12-13   [314]5:5   [315]6:2
   [316]6:5-6   [317]6:9   [318]9:14   [319]9:27   [320]10:6
   [321]10:13   [322]11:10   [323]13:7   [324]13:12   [325]15:55

   2 Corinthians

   [326]1:10   [327]4:13   [328]5:2   [329]5:6   [330]5:8   [331]5:8
   [332]7:5   [333]10:5   [334]11:29   [335]12:4   [336]12:8   [337]12:20

   Galatians

   [338]3:28   [339]4:15   [340]5:17   [341]6:1   [342]6:7-8   [343]6:16

   Ephesians

   [344]1:3   [345]1:11   [346]1:18   [347]3:17   [348]4:15-16
   [349]4:24   [350]4:26   [351]4:26-27   [352]4:28   [353]4:30
   [354]5:21   [355]6:18-19

   Philippians

   [356]1:9   [357]1:23   [358]1:28   [359]2:1-2   [360]2:15-16
   [361]2:21   [362]3:11   [363]3:18-19   [364]4:3

   Colossians

   [365]3:16   [366]4:5

   2 Thessalonians

   [367]1:8-9   [368]3:11-12

   1 Timothy

   [369]5:13   [370]5:19   [371]5:21

   2 Timothy

   [372]1:7   [373]2:19   [374]2:21   [375]4:16

   Titus

   [376]2:10   [377]2:11-12

   Philemon

   [378]1:22

   Hebrews

   [379]4:13   [380]4:16   [381]5:7   [382]10:25   [383]10:26-27
   [384]10:38   [385]11:37   [386]12:4   [387]12:8   [388]12:10
   [389]12:28-29   [390]13:5   [391]13:5   [392]13:9   [393]13:9
   [394]13:16   [395]13:18-19

   James

   [396]1:2-3   [397]1:27   [398]1:27   [399]2:5   [400]2:7   [401]5:7-9
   [402]5:11

   1 Peter

   [403]2:11-12   [404]2:15   [405]2:21-23   [406]3:4   [407]3:7
   [408]3:13   [409]3:17   [410]4:10   [411]4:19

   2 Peter

   [412]2:9

   1 John

   [413]1:3   [414]3:20

   Revelation

   [415]2:1   [416]2:2-4   [417]2:5   [418]2:23   [419]2:23   [420]6
   [421]6:8   [422]14:13
     __________________________________________________________________

Index of Pages of the Print Edition

   [423]3  [424]4  [425]5  [426]6  [427]7  [428]8  [429]9  [430]10
   [431]13  [432]14  [433]15  [434]16  [435]17  [436]18  [437]19  [438]20
   [439]21  [440]22  [441]23  [442]24  [443]25  [444]26  [445]27  [446]28
   [447]29  [448]30  [449]31  [450]32  [451]33  [452]34  [453]35  [454]36
   [455]37  [456]38  [457]39  [458]40  [459]41  [460]42  [461]43  [462]44
   [463]45  [464]46  [465]47  [466]48  [467]49  [468]50  [469]51  [470]52
   [471]53  [472]54  [473]55  [474]56  [475]57  [476]58  [477]59  [478]60
   [479]61  [480]62  [481]63  [482]64  [483]65  [484]66  [485]67  [486]67
   [487]68  [488]70  [489]71  [490]72  [491]73  [492]74  [493]75  [494]76
   [495]77  [496]78  [497]79  [498]80  [499]81  [500]82  [501]83  [502]84
   [503]85  [504]86  [505]87  [506]88  [507]89  [508]90  [509]91  [510]92
   [511]93  [512]94  [513]95  [514]96  [515]97  [516]98  [517]99
   [518]100  [519]101  [520]102  [521]103  [522]104  [523]105  [524]106
   [525]107  [526]108  [527]109  [528]110  [529]111  [530]112  [531]113
   [532]114  [533]115  [534]116  [535]117  [536]118  [537]119  [538]120
   [539]121  [540]122  [541]123  [542]124  [543]125  [544]126  [545]127
   [546]128  [547]129  [548]130  [549]131  [550]132  [551]133  [552]134
   [553]135  [554]136  [555]137  [556]138  [557]139  [558]140  [559]141
   [560]142  [561]143  [562]144  [563]145  [564]146  [565]147  [566]148
   [567]149  [568]150  [569]151  [570]152  [571]153  [572]154  [573]155
   [574]156  [575]157  [576]158  [577]159  [578]160  [579]161  [580]162
   [581]163  [582]164  [583]165  [584]166  [585]167  [586]168  [587]169
   [588]170  [589]171  [590]172  [591]173  [592]174  [593]175  [594]176
   [595]177  [596]178  [597]179  [598]180  [599]181  [600]182  [601]183
   [602]184  [603]185  [604]186  [605]187  [606]188  [607]189  [608]190
   [609]191  [610]192  [611]193  [612]194  [613]195  [614]196  [615]197
   [616]198  [617]199  [618]200  [619]201  [620]202  [621]203  [622]204
   [623]205  [624]206  [625]207  [626]208  [627]209  [628]210  [629]211
   [630]212  [631]213  [632]214  [633]215  [634]216  [635]217  [636]218
   [637]219  [638]220  [639]221  [640]222  [641]223  [642]224  [643]225
   [644]226  [645]227  [646]228  [647]229  [648]230  [649]231  [650]232
   [651]233  [652]234  [653]235  [654]236  [655]237  [656]238  [657]239
   [658]240  [659]241  [660]242  [661]243  [662]244  [663]245  [664]246
   [665]247  [666]248  [667]249  [668]250  [669]251  [670]252  [671]253
   [672]254  [673]255  [674]256  [675]257  [676]258  [677]259  [678]260
   [679]261  [680]262  [681]263  [682]264  [683]265  [684]266  [685]267
   [686]268  [687]269  [688]270  [689]271  [690]272  [691]273  [692]274
   [693]275  [694]276  [695]277  [696]278  [697]279  [698]280  [699]281
   [700]282  [701]283  [702]284  [703]285  [704]286  [705]287  [706]288
   [707]289  [708]290  [709]291  [710]292  [711]293  [712]294  [713]295
   [714]296  [715]297  [716]298  [717]299  [718]300  [719]301  [720]302
   [721]303  [722]304  [723]305  [724]306  [725]307  [726]308  [727]309
     __________________________________________________________________

            This document is from the Christian Classics Ethereal
               Library at Calvin College, http://www.ccel.org,
                   generated on demand from ThML source.

References

   1. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=4&scrV=14#v.iii.iv-p24.2
   2. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=5&scrV=22#v.iv.i-p9.1
   3. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=6&scrV=5#v.ii-p3.1
   4. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=6&scrV=7#v.ii-p3.2
   5. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=17&scrV=1#v.i-p16.2
   6. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=17&scrV=1#v.iii.v-p25.3
   7. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=18&scrV=27#v.iii.vi-p10.5
   8. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=21&scrV=17#v.iii.v-p25.8
   9. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=32&scrV=7#v.iii.iv-p2.4
  10. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=32&scrV=9#v.iii.iv-p2.5
  11. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=32&scrV=10#v.iii.i-p12.1
  12. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=32&scrV=12#v.iii.iv-p15.4
  13. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=17&scrV=12#v.i-p19.1
  14. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=16#v.iii.vi-p11.3
  15. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=18#v.iii.vi-p11.4
  16. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=33&scrV=14#v.iii.iii-p10.7
  17. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=10&scrV=3#v.iii.vi-p10.6
  18. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=16#vi.i-p3.1
  19. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=17#vi.i-p8.1
  20. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=26&scrV=36#v.iii.iv-p2.2
  21. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=12&scrV=3#v.iii.viii-p13.2
  22. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=14&scrV=9#v.iii.iii-p10.1
  23. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=14&scrV=19#v.iii.iv-p19.4
  24. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=27#v.iii.ix-p19.1
  25. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=30#v.iii.ix-p19.2
  26. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=10#v.iii.i-p1.1
  27. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=24&scrV=12#v.iii.v-p30.1
  28. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=26&scrV=5#v.iii.i-p12.3
  29. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=15#v.iii.i-p1.2
  30. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=6&scrV=0#v.iii.iii-p10.3
  31. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=6&scrV=12#v.iii.iii-p10.4
  32. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=6&scrV=17#v.iii.iii-p10.5
  33. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=6&scrV=36#v.iii.iii-p10.6
  34. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=2&scrV=1#v.iii.i-p14.1
  35. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=17&scrV=37#v.iii.iv-p19.2
  36. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=24&scrV=16#v.iii.vii-p12.1
  37. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=25&scrV=8#v.iii.v-p6.2
  38. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=7&scrV=14#v.iii.ii-p5.1
  39. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=7&scrV=18#v.iii.i-p12.2
  40. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=7&scrV=26#v.iii.i-p13.1
  41. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=12&scrV=13#iv-p8.2
  42. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=12&scrV=13#v.iv.ii-p22.3
  43. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=16&scrV=10#v.iii.iii-p5.1
  44. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=19&scrV=7#v.iii.x-p34.1
  45. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=8&scrV=38#v.i-p9.2
  46. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=19&scrV=4#v.iii.iii-p2.3
  47. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=6&scrV=33#v.iii.x-p46.1
  48. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=10&scrV=31#v.ii-p5.1
  49. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=20&scrV=2#iv-p28.1
  50. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=20&scrV=2#v.iv.iv-p3.1
  51. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=13&scrV=6#v.iii.vi-p3.5
  52. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=17&scrV=3#v.iii.x-p32.1
  53. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=17&scrV=5#v.iii.i-p16.1
  54. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=17&scrV=5#v.iii.i-p6.3
  55. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=20&scrV=29#v.iii.iv-p15.3
  56. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=32&scrV=26#v-p15.1
  57. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=32&scrV=26#v.i-p9.1
  58. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=9&scrV=13#v.iii.i-p15.1
  59. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=10&scrV=3#v.iii.xi-p8.1
  60. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=2&scrV=2#v.iii.iii-p1.1
  61. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=6&scrV=11#v.iii.iv-p28.1
  62. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=1&scrV=7#iv-p29.3
  63. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=1&scrV=11#v.iii.iv-p6.3
  64. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=1&scrV=21#v.iii.vii-p18.1
  65. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=5&scrV=6#v.iii.ii-p4.1
  66. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=11&scrV=13#v.i-p7.1
  67. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=15&scrV=11#v.iv.ii-p36.1
  68. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=19&scrV=3#v.iii.x-p29.1
  69. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=31&scrV=1#v.iii.ix-p10.2
  70. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=31&scrV=1#v.i-p11.1
  71. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=31&scrV=1#v.iii.vi-p6.1
  72. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=31&scrV=4#v.iii.ix-p10.1
  73. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=31&scrV=4#v.i-p16.1
  74. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=35&scrV=13#v.iii.vi-p20.1
  75. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=38&scrV=41#v.iii.v-p25.6
  76. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=4&scrV=4#v.iii.x-p12.1
  77. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=5&scrV=8#iv-p29.4
  78. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=10&scrV=14#v.iii.iv-p26.3
  79. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=16&scrV=7#v.iv.iii-p5.2
  80. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=18&scrV=2#v.iii.i-p13.2
  81. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=19&scrV=8#iv-p10.2
  82. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=19&scrV=12#v.i-p10.1
  83. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=2#v.iii.x-p46.2
  84. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=23&scrV=1#v.iii.v-p11.1
  85. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=24&scrV=1#v.iii.v-p25.2
  86. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=25&scrV=3#v.iv.ii-p22.4
  87. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=25&scrV=11#v.iii.x-p14.1
  88. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=27&scrV=1#v.iii.iv-p2.1
  89. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=31&scrV=22#v.iii.x-p44.1
  90. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=33&scrV=18#v.iii.v-p10.2
  91. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=34&scrV=9#v.iii.v-p10.1
  92. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=37&scrV=30#v.ii-p13.1
  93. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=37&scrV=31#v.iv.iii-p3.3
  94. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=38&scrV=2#v.iii.ix-p6.3
  95. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=38&scrV=3#v.iii.ix-p6.4
  96. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=38&scrV=4#v.iii.ix-p6.5
  97. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=38&scrV=5#v.iii.ix-p6.6
  98. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=38&scrV=6#v.iii.ix-p6.7
  99. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=38&scrV=7#v.iii.ix-p6.8
 100. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=38&scrV=8#v.iii.ix-p6.9
 101. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=39&scrV=3#v.iii.vi-p5.1
 102. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=45&scrV=1#v.ii-p12.1
 103. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=45&scrV=1#v.iii.vi-p5.2
 104. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=45&scrV=1#v.iv.ii-p16.1
 105. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=47&scrV=7#v.iii.iv-p7.3
 106. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=49&scrV=14#v.iii.xii-p4.5
 107. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=51&scrV=8#v.iii.ix-p6.2
 108. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=56&scrV=3#v.iii.iv-p26.1
 109. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=57&scrV=7#v.iii.vi-p4.1
 110. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=63&scrV=5#v.ii-p24.5
 111. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=73&scrV=3#v.iii.x-p16.2
 112. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=74&scrV=14#v.iii.iv-p19.1
 113. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=77&scrV=6#v.i-p8.1
 114. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=78&scrV=8#v.iii.vi-p3.1
 115. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=84&scrV=11#v.iii.v-p10.3
 116. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=86&scrV=11#v-p15.3
 117. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=86&scrV=11#v.i-p10.2
 118. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=89&scrV=7#v.iii.vi-p11.2
 119. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=89&scrV=7#vi.i-p7.1
 120. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=103&scrV=12#v.iii.xii-p4.7
 121. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=103&scrV=13#v.iii.v-p25.4
 122. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=104&scrV=34#v.iv.ii-p14.1
 123. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=110&scrV=3#v.i-p5.3
 124. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=112&scrV=7#v.iii.iv-p26.4
 125. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=116&scrV=10#v.ii-p24.2
 126. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=119&scrV=11#v-p10.2
 127. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=119&scrV=11#v.ii-p8.1
 128. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=119&scrV=11#v.iv.iii-p3.2
 129. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=119&scrV=36#v.ii-p8.3
 130. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=119&scrV=37#v.iii.vi-p6.2
 131. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=119&scrV=71#v.iii.ii-p4.6
 132. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=119&scrV=80#v-p15.2
 133. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=119&scrV=97#v.iii.vi-p16.1
 134. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=119&scrV=113#v.ii-p9.1
 135. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=120&scrV=6#v.iv.ii-p32.2
 136. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=122&scrV=1#vi.i-p6.1
 137. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=130&scrV=4#v.iii.ix-p20.2
 138. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=139&scrV=2#v.iii.vi-p11.1
 139. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=139&scrV=17#v.ii-p24.4
 140. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=141&scrV=5#vi.i-p8.3
 141. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=141&scrV=5#vi.ii-p6.1
 142. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=1&scrV=32#v.iii.x-p16.1
 143. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=4&scrV=23#v-p2.1
 144. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=5&scrV=20#v.iii.ix-p10.3
 145. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=13&scrV=7#v.iii.x-p9.1
 146. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=13&scrV=10#v.iii.viii-p5.1
 147. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=15&scrV=1#v.iii.viii-p16.1
 148. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=16&scrV=32#v.iii.viii-p11.1
 149. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=20&scrV=22#v.iii.vii-p4.1
 150. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=23&scrV=26#v.i-p20.1
 151. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=24&scrV=29#v.iii.vii-p4.2
 152. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=25&scrV=21#v.iii.vii-p4.5
 153. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=25&scrV=21#v.iii.vii-p13.1
 154. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=28&scrV=1#v.iii.iv-p24.1
 155. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=28&scrV=14#v.i-p15.1
 156. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=4&scrV=10#v.iii.xi-p8.2
 157. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=5&scrV=1#vi.i-p7.3
 158. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=8&scrV=12#v.iii.iv-p15.2
 159. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=6#v.iv.i-p7.1
 160. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=8#v.iii.xii-p6.3
 161. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=11#v.iii.vi-p13.1
 162. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=5#v.iii.vi-p10.4
 163. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=7#v.iv.ii-p27.1
 164. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=8#v.iv.ii-p27.2
 165. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=7&scrV=2#v.iii.iv-p1.1
 166. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=8&scrV=12#v.iii.iv-p34.2
 167. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=1#v.iii.v-p9.1
 168. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=10&scrV=12#v.iii.iii-p7.2
 169. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=8#v.iii.xii-p4.1
 170. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=22&scrV=12#v.iii.iii-p2.1
 171. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=26&scrV=3#v.iii.iv-p26.2
 172. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=27&scrV=9#v.iii.ii-p4.3
 173. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=15#v.iii.ix-p15.1
 174. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=22#v.iii.ix-p15.2
 175. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=41&scrV=17#v.iii.v-p10.5
 176. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=43&scrV=1#v.iii.iv-p13.2
 177. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=49&scrV=14#v.iii.x-p21.1
 178. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=49&scrV=15#v.iii.x-p21.2
 179. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=50&scrV=10#v.iii.x-p23.1
 180. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=51&scrV=12#v.iii.iv-p9.6
 181. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=51&scrV=13#v.iii.iv-p11.1
 182. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=7#v.iii.vii-p6.1
 183. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=54&scrV=5#v.iii.iv-p7.2
 184. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=55&scrV=7#v.ii-p11.2
 185. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=1#v.iii.xii-p10.2
 186. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=2#v.iii.xii-p4.9
 187. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=16#v.iii.x-p24.1
 188. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=18#v.iii.iii-p18.1
 189. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=13#v.iii.vi-p10.1
 190. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=21#v.iv.ii-p19.1
 191. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=63&scrV=17#v.iii.x-p10.1
 192. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=66&scrV=3#v.i-p20.2
 193. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=66&scrV=3#v.ii-p3.5
 194. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=2&scrV=3#v.iii.i-p6.1
 195. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=2&scrV=31#v.iii.i-p6.2
 196. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=2&scrV=31#v.iii.v-p14.1
 197. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=3&scrV=22#v.iii.x-p27.2
 198. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=4&scrV=7#v.ii-p3.4
 199. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=4&scrV=14#v.ii-p3.3
 200. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=9&scrV=2#v.iv.ii-p32.1
 201. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=10&scrV=0#iv-p23.1
 202. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=11&scrV=0#iv-p23.1
 203. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=17&scrV=5#v.iii.xi-p9.1
 204. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=17&scrV=9#v.iv.iii-p5.1
 205. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=17&scrV=17#v.iii.xi-p1.7
 206. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=24&scrV=5#v.iii.iii-p7.1
 207. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=25&scrV=6#v.iii.ii-p6.2
 208. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=29&scrV=13#v.iii.vi-p20.2
 209. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=30&scrV=21#v.ii-p8.2
 210. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=49&scrV=11#v.iii.xii-p19.1
 211. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=3&scrV=8#v.iii.x-p46.3
 212. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=3&scrV=36#v.iii.vii-p19.1
 213. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=3&scrV=40#v.iii.x-p46.4
 214. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=3&scrV=44#v.iii.x-p44.2
 215. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=1&scrV=24#v.iii.iv-p6.1
 216. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=33&scrV=31#v.iii.vi-p3.2
 217. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=33&scrV=31#v.ii-p5.3
 218. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=33&scrV=31#v.iii.vi-p22.1
 219. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=36&scrV=20#v.iv.ii-p22.5
 220. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=9&scrV=22#v.iii.xii-p9.5
 221. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=4&scrV=17#v.iii.iii-p12.1
 222. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=12&scrV=4#v.iii.iv-p17.1
 223. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=14&scrV=4#v.iii.x-p27.3
 224. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=6&scrV=1#v.iii.iii-p2.2
 225. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jonah&scrCh=2&scrV=4#v.iii.x-p44.3
 226. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=6&scrV=4#v.iii.i-p10.1
 227. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=7&scrV=1#v.iii.xii-p10.3
 228. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=7&scrV=5#v.iii.xi-p1.2
 229. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=7&scrV=7#v.iii.ii-p7.2
 230. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=1&scrV=13#v.iii.vii-p1.2
 231. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=1&scrV=14#v.iii.vii-p1.1
 232. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=2&scrV=5#v.iii.viii-p5.2
 233. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=3&scrV=17#v.iii.v-p1.2
 234. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Zeph&scrCh=3&scrV=12#v.iii.iii-p11.1
 235. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=2&scrV=8#v.iii.iv-p7.1
 236. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=8&scrV=23#v.iv.ii-p30.1
 237. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=3&scrV=16#vi.ii-p1.1
 238. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=16#vi.iii-p4.1
 239. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=22#v.iii.viii-p3.2
 240. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=45#v.iii.vii-p6.3
 241. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=5#v.iv.iv-p5.1
 242. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=15#v.iii.vii-p22.2
 243. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=26#v.iii.v-p25.7
 244. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=32#v.iii.v-p25.1
 245. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=11#v.iii.ii-p6.1
 246. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=0#v.iii.iv-p34.1
 247. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=26#v.iii.iv-p9.3
 248. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=28#v.iii.iv-p9.4
 249. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=31#v.iii.iv-p9.5
 250. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=29#v.iii.viii-p13.1
 251. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=3#v.ii-p25.1
 252. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=23#v.iv.ii-p28.1
 253. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=14#v.iii.iii-p12.2
 254. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=19#v.ii-p11.3
 255. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=7#iv-p8.1
 256. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=7#v.iv.ii-p22.1
 257. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=10#v.iv.i-p9.2
 258. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=15#vi.i-p8.2
 259. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=32#v.iii.vii-p22.1
 260. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=22#v.iii.ii-p8.1
 261. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=24#v.iii.i-p5.1
 262. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=8#v.iii.xi-p1.1
 263. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=51#iv-p7.1
 264. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=40#v.iii.x-p27.1
 265. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=75#v.iii.ix-p6.1
 266. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=75#v.iv.iii-p3.4
 267. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=38#v.iii.xi-p11.1
 268. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=12#v.iii.v-p6.3
 269. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=32#v.iii.iv-p36.1
 270. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=38#v.iii.ix-p1.1
 271. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=46#v.iii.i-p14.2
 272. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=45#v-p13.1
 273. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=17#v.iii.ix-p10.4
 274. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=2#iv-p31.1
 275. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=48#v.iii.i-p10.2
 276. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=15&scrV=17#v.iii.vii-p9.1
 277. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=7#v.iii.x-p45.1
 278. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=9#v.iii.iv-p9.1
 279. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=25#v.iii.iv-p1.2
 280. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=43#v.iii.xii-p9.3
 281. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=21#v.iii.xii-p4.3
 282. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=3#v.iii.xii-p9.4
 283. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=5#v-p11.2
 284. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=11#v.iii.iii-p5.2
 285. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=2&scrV=6#v.ii-p16.1
 286. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=8&scrV=21#v.ii-p4.1
 287. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=8&scrV=21#v.ii-p5.2
 288. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=10&scrV=35#v.iii.i-p7.2
 289. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=1&scrV=21#v-p10.1
 290. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=2&scrV=4#v.iii.ix-p20.1
 291. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=2&scrV=7#v.iii.xi-p7.1
 292. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=5&scrV=14#v.iii.xii-p4.4
 293. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=6&scrV=6#v.i-p5.4
 294. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=6&scrV=7#v.iii.xii-p16.2
 295. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=7&scrV=21#v.iii.vi-p3.3
 296. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=7&scrV=24#v.iii.vi-p3.4
 297. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=7&scrV=24#v.iii.xii-p16.1
 298. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=8&scrV=10#v.iii.xii-p8.1
 299. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=8&scrV=28#v.iii.ii-p4.5
 300. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=8&scrV=28#v.iii.iv-p15.1
 301. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=8&scrV=31#v.iii.iii-p10.2
 302. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=8&scrV=32#v.iii.v-p10.4
 303. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=9&scrV=1#iv-p29.5
 304. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=10#vi.ii-p5.1
 305. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=17#v.iii.vii-p4.3
 306. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=19#v.iii.vii-p4.4
 307. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=15&scrV=1#vi.ii-p3.1
 308. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=15&scrV=2#vi.ii-p3.2
 309. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=15&scrV=30#vi.ii-p2.2
 310. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=16&scrV=17#vi.ii-p4.1
 311. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=1&scrV=26#v.iii.i-p5.2
 312. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=4&scrV=11#v.iii.v-p6.1
 313. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=4&scrV=12#v.iii.vii-p6.4
 314. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=5#v.iii.xii-p9.1
 315. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=6&scrV=2#iv-p29.1
 316. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=6&scrV=5#vi.i-p9.1
 317. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=6&scrV=9#iv-p6.2
 318. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=9&scrV=14#vi.ii-p8.3
 319. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=9&scrV=27#v.iv.ii-p26.1
 320. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=6#v.iii.ix-p23.1
 321. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=13#v.iii.iv-p13.1
 322. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=11&scrV=10#vi.i-p7.2
 323. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=7#vi.ii-p10.1
 324. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=12#v.iii.xii-p9.2
 325. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=55#v.iii.xii-p4.2
 326. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=1&scrV=10#v.iii.iv-p19.3
 327. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=4&scrV=13#v.ii-p24.3
 328. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=2#v.iii.xii-p4.8
 329. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=6#v.iii.xii-p6.1
 330. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=8#v.iii.xii-p14.1
 331. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=8#v.iv.ii-p32.3
 332. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=5#v.iii.iv-p1.3
 333. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=5#v.iii.vi-p7.1
 334. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=11&scrV=29#vi.i-p10.2
 335. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=12&scrV=4#v.iii.xii-p6.2
 336. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=12&scrV=8#v.iii.vi-p18.1
 337. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=12&scrV=20#vi.i-p4.1
 338. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=3&scrV=28#vi.ii-p5.2
 339. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=4&scrV=15#vi.i-p6.2
 340. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=5&scrV=17#v.ii-p9.2
 341. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=6&scrV=1#v.iv.ii-p31.1
 342. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=6&scrV=7#v.iii.vi-p24.1
 343. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=6&scrV=16#vi.iii-p5.1
 344. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=1&scrV=3#v.iii.v-p15.2
 345. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=1&scrV=11#v.iii.ii-p4.2
 346. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=1&scrV=18#v.i-p5.2
 347. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=3&scrV=17#v.ii-p24.1
 348. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=15#vi.ii-p1.2
 349. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=24#v.i-p5.1
 350. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=26#v.iii.viii-p3.1
 351. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=26#v.iii.viii-p9.2
 352. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=28#vi.ii-p8.2
 353. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=30#v.iii.viii-p9.1
 354. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=5&scrV=21#vi.ii-p5.3
 355. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=6&scrV=18#iv-p31.2
 356. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=1&scrV=9#v.iii.x-p31.1
 357. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=1&scrV=23#v.iii.xii-p8.2
 358. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=1&scrV=28#v.iii.iv-p9.2
 359. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=1#vi.ii-p4.2
 360. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=15#vi.iii-p2.1
 361. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=21#vi.i-p10.1
 362. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=3&scrV=11#v.iii.ii-p4.7
 363. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=3&scrV=18#iv-p3.1
 364. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=4&scrV=3#vi.ii-p2.1
 365. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=3&scrV=16#v.iv.iii-p3.1
 366. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=4&scrV=5#vi.i-p1.1
 367. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Thess&scrCh=1&scrV=8#iv-p6.1
 368. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Thess&scrCh=3&scrV=11#vi.i-p2.1
 369. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=5&scrV=13#vi.i-p3.2
 370. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=5&scrV=19#vi.i-p4.2
 371. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=5&scrV=21#vi.ii-p7.2
 372. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=1&scrV=7#v.iii.iv-p2.3
 373. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=19#v.iii.xi-p1.6
 374. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=21#v.iv.ii-p26.2
 375. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=4&scrV=16#v.iii.xi-p1.3
 376. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Titus&scrCh=2&scrV=10#vi.iii-p1.1
 377. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Titus&scrCh=2&scrV=11#iv-p10.3
 378. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Phlm&scrCh=1&scrV=22#iv-p31.4
 379. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=4&scrV=13#v.iii.vi-p10.3
 380. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=4&scrV=16#v.iii.v-p1.1
 381. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=5&scrV=7#v.iii.iv-p36.2
 382. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=10&scrV=25#vi.i-p5.1
 383. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=10&scrV=26#v.iii.xi-p9.2
 384. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=10&scrV=38#v.iii.xi-p9.3
 385. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=11&scrV=37#v.iii.xi-p1.5
 386. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=12&scrV=4#v.iii.xi-p1.4
 387. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=12&scrV=8#v.iii.x-p18.1
 388. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=12&scrV=10#v.iii.ii-p4.4
 389. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=12&scrV=28#v.iii.vi-p11.5
 390. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=13&scrV=5#v.iii.ii-p7.1
 391. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=13&scrV=5#v.iii.x-p24.2
 392. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=13&scrV=9#v.iv.i-p7.2
 393. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=13&scrV=9#v.iv.ii-p8.2
 394. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=13&scrV=16#vi.ii-p8.1
 395. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=13&scrV=18#iv-p31.3
 396. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=1&scrV=2#v.iii.ii-p4.8
 397. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=1&scrV=27#iv-p10.1
 398. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=1&scrV=27#vi.ii-p9.1
 399. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=2&scrV=5#v.iii.v-p15.1
 400. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=2&scrV=7#v.iv.ii-p22.2
 401. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=5&scrV=7#v.iii.vii-p24.1
 402. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=5&scrV=11#v.iii.v-p25.5
 403. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=2&scrV=11#v.ii-p11.1
 404. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=2&scrV=15#vi.iii-p3.1
 405. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=2&scrV=21#v.iii.vii-p6.2
 406. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=4#v.iii.i-p7.1
 407. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=7#v.iii.viii-p9.3
 408. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=13#v.iii.iv-p21.1
 409. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=17#v.iv.ii-p8.1
 410. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=4&scrV=10#vi.ii-p7.1
 411. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=4&scrV=19#v.iii.iv-p21.2
 412. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=2&scrV=9#v.iii.iii-p17.1
 413. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=1&scrV=3#v.iv.ii-p30.2
 414. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=3&scrV=20#v-p10.3
 415. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=1#vi.iii-p6.1
 416. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=2#v.iii.x-p32.2
 417. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=5#vi.iii-p6.2
 418. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=23#iv-p29.2
 419. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=23#v.iii.vi-p10.2
 420. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=6&scrV=0#v.iii.iv-p6.2
 421. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=6&scrV=8#v.iii.xii-p4.6
 422. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=14&scrV=13#v.iii.xii-p10.1
 423. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#i-Page_3
 424. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#ii-Page_4
 425. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#ii-Page_5
 426. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#ii-Page_6
 427. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#ii-Page_7
 428. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#ii-Page_8
 429. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#ii-Page_9
 430. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#ii-Page_10
 431. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_13
 432. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_14
 433. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_15
 434. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_16
 435. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_17
 436. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_18
 437. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_19
 438. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_20
 439. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_21
 440. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_22
 441. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_23
 442. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_24
 443. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_25
 444. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_26
 445. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_27
 446. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_28
 447. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#iv-Page_29
 448. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v-Page_30
 449. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v-Page_31
 450. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v-Page_32
 451. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v-Page_33
 452. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v-Page_34
 453. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v-Page_35
 454. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v-Page_36
 455. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v-Page_37
 456. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_38
 457. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_39
 458. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_40
 459. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_41
 460. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_42
 461. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_43
 462. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_44
 463. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_45
 464. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_46
 465. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_47
 466. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_48
 467. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.i-Page_49
 468. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_50
 469. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_51
 470. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_52
 471. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_53
 472. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_54
 473. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_55
 474. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_56
 475. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_57
 476. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_58
 477. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_59
 478. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_60
 479. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_61
 480. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_62
 481. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_63
 482. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_64
 483. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_65
 484. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_66
 485. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_67
 486. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_67_1
 487. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_68
 488. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_70
 489. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_71
 490. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.ii-Page_72
 491. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.i-Page_73
 492. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.i-Page_74
 493. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.i-Page_75
 494. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.i-Page_76
 495. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.i-Page_77
 496. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.i-Page_78
 497. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.i-Page_79
 498. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.i-Page_80
 499. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.i-Page_81
 500. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.i-Page_82
 501. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.i-Page_83
 502. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_84
 503. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_85
 504. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_86
 505. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_87
 506. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_88
 507. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_89
 508. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_90
 509. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_91
 510. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_92
 511. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_93
 512. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_94
 513. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_95
 514. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_96
 515. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ii-Page_97
 516. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_98
 517. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_99
 518. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_100
 519. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_101
 520. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_102
 521. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_103
 522. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_104
 523. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_105
 524. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_106
 525. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_107
 526. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_108
 527. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_109
 528. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_110
 529. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iii-Page_111
 530. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_112
 531. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_113
 532. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_114
 533. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_115
 534. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_116
 535. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_117
 536. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_118
 537. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_119
 538. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_120
 539. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_121
 540. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_122
 541. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_123
 542. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_124
 543. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_125
 544. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_126
 545. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_127
 546. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_128
 547. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_129
 548. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_130
 549. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_131
 550. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_132
 551. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.iv-Page_133
 552. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_134
 553. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_135
 554. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_136
 555. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_137
 556. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_138
 557. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_139
 558. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_140
 559. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_141
 560. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_142
 561. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_143
 562. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_144
 563. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_145
 564. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_146
 565. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_147
 566. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_148
 567. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_149
 568. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_150
 569. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_151
 570. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.v-Page_152
 571. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_153
 572. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_154
 573. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_155
 574. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_156
 575. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_157
 576. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_158
 577. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_159
 578. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_160
 579. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_161
 580. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_162
 581. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_163
 582. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_164
 583. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_165
 584. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_166
 585. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_167
 586. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_168
 587. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vi-Page_169
 588. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_170
 589. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_171
 590. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_172
 591. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_173
 592. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_174
 593. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_175
 594. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_176
 595. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_177
 596. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_178
 597. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_179
 598. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_180
 599. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_181
 600. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_182
 601. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_183
 602. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_184
 603. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.vii-Page_185
 604. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.viii-Page_186
 605. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.viii-Page_187
 606. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.viii-Page_188
 607. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.viii-Page_189
 608. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.viii-Page_190
 609. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.viii-Page_191
 610. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.viii-Page_192
 611. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.viii-Page_193
 612. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.viii-Page_194
 613. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.viii-Page_195
 614. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.viii-Page_196
 615. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ix-Page_197
 616. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ix-Page_198
 617. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ix-Page_199
 618. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ix-Page_200
 619. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ix-Page_201
 620. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ix-Page_202
 621. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ix-Page_203
 622. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ix-Page_204
 623. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.ix-Page_205
 624. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_206
 625. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_207
 626. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_208
 627. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_209
 628. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_210
 629. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_211
 630. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_212
 631. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_213
 632. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_214
 633. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_215
 634. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_216
 635. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_217
 636. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_218
 637. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_219
 638. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_220
 639. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_221
 640. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_222
 641. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_223
 642. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_224
 643. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_225
 644. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_226
 645. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.x-Page_227
 646. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xi-Page_228
 647. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xi-Page_229
 648. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xi-Page_230
 649. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xi-Page_231
 650. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xi-Page_232
 651. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xi-Page_233
 652. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xi-Page_234
 653. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xi-Page_235
 654. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xi-Page_236
 655. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xi-Page_237
 656. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_238
 657. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_239
 658. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_240
 659. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_241
 660. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_242
 661. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_243
 662. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_244
 663. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_245
 664. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_246
 665. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_247
 666. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_248
 667. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_249
 668. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_250
 669. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_251
 670. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iii.xii-Page_252
 671. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.i-Page_253
 672. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.i-Page_254
 673. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.i-Page_255
 674. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.i-Page_256
 675. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.i-Page_257
 676. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.i-Page_258
 677. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.i-Page_259
 678. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.i-Page_260
 679. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.i-Page_261
 680. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.i-Page_262
 681. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_263
 682. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_264
 683. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_265
 684. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_266
 685. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_267
 686. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_268
 687. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_269
 688. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_270
 689. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_271
 690. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_272
 691. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_273
 692. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_274
 693. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_275
 694. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_276
 695. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_277
 696. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_278
 697. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_279
 698. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_280
 699. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_281
 700. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_282
 701. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.ii-Page_283
 702. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iii-Page_284
 703. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iii-Page_285
 704. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iii-Page_286
 705. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iii-Page_287
 706. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iii-Page_288
 707. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iii-Page_289
 708. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iii-Page_290
 709. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iii-Page_291
 710. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iv-Page_292
 711. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iv-Page_293
 712. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iv-Page_294
 713. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iv-Page_295
 714. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iv-Page_296
 715. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iv-Page_297
 716. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#v.iv.iv-Page_298
 717. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#vi-Page_299
 718. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#vi.i-Page_300
 719. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#vi.i-Page_301
 720. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#vi.i-Page_302
 721. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#vi.i-Page_303
 722. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#vi.ii-Page_304
 723. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#vi.ii-Page_305
 724. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#vi.ii-Page_306
 725. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#vi.ii-Page_307
 726. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#vi.iii-Page_308
 727. file:///ccel/f/flavel/saintindeed/cache/saintindeed.html3#vi.iii-Page_309
