HISTORY OF
IN TWELVE LECTURES ;
COMPRISINa A DETAILED
of
DOCTRINES AND DISCIPLINE,
OF ALL THE
SECRET AND MYSTERIOUS INSTITUTIONS
OF THE
ANCIENT WORLD.

BY THE REV. GEORGE OLIVER, D.D.,

INCUMBENT

OF

THE

COLLEGIATE

CHURCH,

WOLVERHAMPTON ;

D. P.O. M.

FOR

LINCOLNSHIRE; DOMESTIC CHAPLAIN TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE

LORD KENSINGTON.

A NEW EDITION.

PJLrtoUcUutlU,j

V6

procul W\-/ U.J.
JJJL

\eSsOtIeV pprioV/fJa.*n*iiAA,j 1

Conclamat vates, totoaup* absistite luco.

^EN. vi., 258.

NEW YORK:
JNO. W. LEONARD & CO., AMERICAN MASONIC AGENCY. CLARK, AUSTIN & SMITH, 3 PAKK ROW.
1855.

Stereotyped by
HOLMAN A GRAY, NEW YORK.
Printed and Bound by J. F. BRBSNAN, LOUISYILLB, KY.

TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE

CHARLES TENNYSON D'EYNCOURT, M. P.

M. A., F.R.S., F.A.S., ETC.
ONE OF THE EQUERRIES OF HIS R. H. THE DUKE OF SUSSEX, PROVINCIAL GRAND MASTER OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS FOR THE COUNTY OF LINCOLN.

MY DEAR SIR,
WHILST I was engaged in arranging these papers for
the press, I received the gratifying intelligence that the
friend and supporter of all my literary labours had been
elevated, by His Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex, to
the superintendence of Freemasonry in Lincolnshire, in the capacity of its Provincial Grand Master. It required no deliberation to determine at whose feet these Lectures

should be placed; for duty and inclination alike concur

in the propriety of inscribing them to you, as the osten-

sible guardian of Masonry within the Province, and the

legitimate patron of all its collateral pursuits.

To your energies I confidently look for the spread of Masonry in this extensive county. From your enlight-

ened understanding and vigorous superintendence I anti-

cipate measures that will secure to the man of letters a

profitable employment for his time in the tyled recesses

of the Lodge ; for it may be fairly presumed that if his

mind be not deeply interested in the investigations, he

will soon bid adieu to Freemasonry.

Experience is a species of wisdom that is seldom erro-

neous ;

and

it

amply confirms

the

opinion

that

a masonic

IV

DEDICATION.

Lodge is founded upon an insecure basis if it rejects from its illustrations the philosophy, and contents itself with

the technicalities of the science ; like one possessing the

keys of a rich casket of splendid jewels, which he has

not the curiosity to open, that their rarity or value may

be correctly estimated.
It is well known that in our Lectures, much scope is

afforded for amplification both in

science

and

morals ;

it

cannot then be a futile expectation, while knowledge is

making such a rapid progress in the present age of free

inquiry, that by the judicious rule and masterly elucida-

tions of our legitimate governors, our Lodges will main-

tain their proper character of schools of virtue and dis-

pensers of the liberal arts.
Imbued with these sentiments, it affords me no incon-

siderable degree of pleasure to associate your name with these Lectures, assured as I am that it will recommend

them to the notice of the fraternity.

I have the honour to be, my dear Sir,

Your faithful servant and Brother,

GEORGE OLIVER, D. D.

Wolverhampton, Dec. 7th, 1840.

ANALYTICAL TABLE OF CONTENTS.

DEDICATION, iii.

PREFACE ;

explaining the

indispensable qualifications of

the Master

of a Lodge, ix.

LECTUKE I.
GENERAL INTRODUCTION. Antiquity of initiation, 1. Tokens, when first adopted, 2. Employment of the first Freemasons, ib. Enoch the inventor of books, ib. (n.) Peculiar meaning of
Darkness, 4. Initiations perverted, ib. Progress of the false
initiations, 5. The universal Deluge, 6. Origin of the metempsychosis, 8. Decay of Masonry, 9. Essenes take charge of it, ib. Nature of the idolatrous initiations, 11. The candidate was a representative of Noah, ib. Legend of initiation, 13. Osiris and Typhon, ib. The aphanism, 14. Lamentations of Isis, ib. Caverns of initiation at Byblus, ib. (n.) The euresis, 15. Ear of corn, ib. (n.) Hieroglyphics of the mysteries, 16.
Terrors of initiation, 17. Felicities of initiation, 18. Despisers of the mysteries, ib. Initiation the only means of acquiring
knowledge, ib. Black, an emblem, 19, (n.) Human victims, 20. Places of initiation described, 21. Power of the priests, 23. The mysteries abolished, ib. Causes of their destruction,
24. Celebrated after the establishment of Christianity, 25.

LECTURE II.
HISTORY OF INITIATION IN HINDOSTAN. Origin of India, 26.
Sects, 27. Deities, ib. Mysteries, 28. Places of initiation in Hindostan, ib. Caverns of Elephanta, 29; and Salsette, 30.
Periods of initiation, 31. Four degrees, ib. First degree, ib. Investiture of the Zennar, ib. Instruction, 32. Second degree, austerities of, ib. Ceremony of initiation, 34. Bewailings, 36. Terrible ceremonies, 37. Candidate made to personate the avaters, 38. The ten avaters described, ib. Seven caverns,
40. Bells, efficacy of, ib. (n.) Illuminated sacellum, 62.

Gyges' ring, 64, (n.)

LECTURE III.

PHILOSOPHY OF THE EASTERN MYSTERIES. Peculiar ceremonies,

44. Amulets, 45. Sublime Name, ib. ^fo A. U. M., 46.

V?V V^S,

47,

n
( -)

Lecture from the Archbrahmin, 47.

Virtue and science recommended, ib. Symbolical instruction,

48. Third and fourth degrees, 50. Lecture, 51. Definition of

the deity, ib. Light, ib. (n.) Egg, a symbol, 52. Divine unity,

VI

CONTENTS.

New ib. Dissolution of matter, ib. Eternity, 53.

creation, ib.

(n.) Chinese worship, 54. Confucius, account of, ib. (n.)

Places of initiation, 55. Amulets, ib. Magical words, ib.

Precepts, ib. Mystical symbols, 56. Japanese account of the

Creation, 57. .Caverns of initiation, 58. Probation, ib. Pastos,

59. Amulets, ib.

LECTURE IV.

INITIATION IN PERSIA. Birth of Zoroaster, 61. Account of his
education, 62. Eeforms the Persian religion, ib. Scripture authorities, 63, (n.) The sacred fire, 64. Cave of initiation, ib. Its splendours, 65. Numerous initiations, 66. Probation, 67. Rigours of, ib. Preparation, 68. The Simorgh of Persian mythology described, ib. (n.) Seven stages of initiation, 69. The terrific process minutely described, ib. Its actual dangers, 70. Torments, 72. Grotto of Elysium, 74. The divine Lights, 75. Amulets and Talismans enumerated, ib. (n.) Account of the Creation, 76. Theogony, 77. Contests of the two powers, ib. Legend, 78. The son of a virgin proclaimed, 80. Incestuous
connections, 81.

LECTURE V.

HISTORY OF INITIATION IN GREECE. The Grecian mysteries divided
into lesser and greater, 82. Eleusinian, ib. Pythagoras initiated, 84. His penances, 85. Pri vileges of initiation, ib. Sciences taught to the esotericks, 86. Origin of the word philosopher, ib. (n.) Instruction by mystical sentences, 87. Symbols, 88. System of Plato, 89. Three degrees, ib. Creation and destruction, 90. Plato's Trinity, ib. Fall of man, ib. Deluge, 91. Officers, ib. Internal purity required of the candidate, 92. The initiations were preceded by a public festival, ib. Preliminary
rites, ib.

LECTURE VI.
CEREMONIES OF INITIATION INTO THE MYSTERIES OF BACCHUS.
Place of initiation, 94. Description of, ib. Incantation, 96.
The aspirant purified, ib. Formula of exclusion, 97. Machinery
Wan of initiation, ib. The aphanism, 98. Lamentations, 99.
derings of Rhea, ib. Mystic dance, 100. The euresis, 101. Descent into the infernal regions, 102. Elysium, 103. Doc-
trines, 104, Fables referring to the Deluge, ib. (n.) Investiture, 105. Symbols, 106. Pollutions of the mysteries, ib. Moses
and Bacchus compared, 107. Facts in the life of Mses found
in the Grecian spurious Freemasonry, ib. Darkness and Light 108. The Grecian mysteries abolished, 110.

CONTENTS.

Vll

LECTURE VII.

PLACES OF INITIATION INTO THE CELTIC MYSTERIES. Derivation

of the name of Druid, 111. The mysteries, arkite, 112. Copious

illustration of the number seven, ib. (n.) Nature of the cere-

monies, 114. Origin of the Britons, 115. Objects of Worship,

116. Sacred rocks, islands, and lakes, 118. Legend of a holy

lake, 119, (n.) Water of purification, 120. The earth a pollu-

tion, ib. Illustrated, ib. (n.) Groves of oaks, 121. Mountains,
122. Form of Temples, 124. Circular, ib. Stonehenge, ib.

(n.) Oval, ib. Long Meg and her daughters, 125, (n.) Ser-

pentine, ib. Abury, ib. (n.) Winged, 126. Cruciform, ib.

How Classernis, ib. (n.)

constructed, 127. Caer Sidi, 128.

Caverns of initiation, how fitted up, 129. Arthur's round table,

130, (n.) Giant's cave in Cumberland^ 131, (n.) Grotto at

Castleton, 132. Intricate passages, 133.

LECTURE VIII.

CEREMONIES OF INITIATION IN BRITAIN. Periods of initiation, 134.
May eve, ib. Sun at its meridian, 135. Preparation, 136.
Robes of the candidate, 137. Confinement in the cromlech,
138. Hymn, ib. Circular procession, 139. The circular dance
of different nations, ib. (n.) Oath, 140. Transformations, ib. Darkness and mysterious noises, 142. Purification of the sea of Dylan, 143. Light, 144. Presentation to the Archdruid, ib. Instruction, ib. Investiture, 145. Preparation for the third degree, ib. Death of the mysteries, 146. Terrific and dangerous progress to perfection, ib. Rejection, 147. Triumph, 148. Thrice born, ib. Extensive privileges of the perfectly initiated candidate, 149.

LECTURE IX.
SYMBOLS AND DOCTRINES OF THE DRUIDS. Various methods of
augury, 150. Lots, ib. Number three, 151. Seven, 152. One hundred and forty-seven, ib. Mystical orchard, 153. Power of the Druids, ib. Logan or rocking-stone, ib. (n.) Magic, 154.
Antiquity and utility of symbols, ib. Druidical vaticination, ib. (n.) Anguinum, 155. Various symbols illustrated. 156. The
oak, 157. Misletoe, 158. Symbolical language, ib t The unity of the Godhead, 160. Creation and Deluge, immortality and a future state, ib. Place of punishment, ib. The liberal sciences, 161. Botany, medicine, and languages, 162. Morality and
truth, 163.

LECTURE X.
HISTORY OF INITIATION INTO THE GOTHIC MYSTERIES. Introduced by Sigge or Odin, 164. His system, 165. Human victims, ib.

CONTENTS.
Power of the Drottes, 166. Introduction of Christianity, ib, The system abolished, il. The annual festivals, ib. Yule, 167. Origin of Yule-cakes, Christmas-boxes, New-year's gifts, ib. (n.) Origin of healths and pledges, 168, (n.) Palace of Thor, 169. Natural cave of initiation in Norway, ib. (n.) Illustration of the palace of Thor, 170. Kingdom of Thrudwanger, 171. Preparation of candidates, 172. Descent to the tomb of Volva, ib. St. Vitus's dance, ib. (n.) Invocation and magical ceremonies, 173. Bewailings for the death of Balder, 174. Account of his death, ib. (n.) Progress through the subterranean passages of initiation, 175. Twilight of the gods, ib. Door of expurga-
tion, 177. Illuminated sacellum, ib. Oath, ib.
LECTUKE XI.
DOCTRINES AND MORALITY. Splendour and importance of the Spurious Freemasonry, 179. Investiture, ib. White Shield,
ib. Niding, ib. Sign of the Cross, 180. Talismanic ring of Balder, ib. Charge, ib. Symbols, 181. Magic, 182. Charms, ib. Amulets, 183, Oracles, ib. Runic spells, ib, Witches,
184, (n.) Doctrines, 185. One God, ib. Idols multiplied, 186. Temple of the tri-une god Odin Thor Frea, 187. Cre-
ation, 188. Deluge, 189. End of the world, ib, New creation, 190.
LECTURE XII.
HISTORY OF INITIATION IN AMERICA. When America was peopled,
192. Science of the primitive inhabitants, 193, (n.) Mysteries, 194. Deities, ib. Vitzliputzli, the god of mercy, ib. Tescalipuca, the god of vengeance, ib. Rainbow, 195. Horrible sacrifices, 196, (n.) System of the Mexicans, barbarous, 197. Serpents, ib. (n.) Painful probations, 198. Bloody purifications,
199. Descent into the fearful caverns of initiation, 200. Manner of sacrificing a human victim, ib. (n.) Horrible sights there displayed, 201. Regeneration, 203. Indecency of these rites, ib. Symbolical instruction, 204. Creation and destruction, ib. Cosmogony of the American savages, 205, (n.) Triad, 206. Wanderings of the first settlers in Mexico, 207. Hieroglyphics, 208. Amulets, ib. The system introduced by Manco Capac
and Mama Ocello, 209. Triad, 210. Annual festival, ib.
Ceremonies and processions, 211. Prodigies, 212, (n.)
COROLLARY.
The mysteries funereal, 214. Tests and probations, ib. Doctrines, ib. The resurrection, 215. Coincidences, ib. The mysteries
corroborate the Mosaic records, ib. Applied to religion, 216. Machinery of the Apocalypse, ib. (n.). Belief in a supreme God. 217.

PREFACE.

THE excellent Preston says, with much justice, " Many

are deluded by the vague supposition, that our mysteries

are

merely

nominal ;

that

the practices

established

amongst

us

are frivolous ;

and that our ceremonies may

be adopted or waived at pleasure. On this false basis

we find too many of the Brethren hurrying through all

the degrees of the Order, without adverting to the pro-

priety of one step they pursue, or possessing a single qualification to entitle them to advancement. Passing

through the usual formalities, they consider themselves

authorised to rank as Masters of the Art, solicit and

accept offices, and even assume the government of the

Lodge, equally unacquainted with the rules of the In-

stitution that they pretend to support, and the nature

of the trust which they are bound to perform. The

consequence is obvious; anarchy and confusion ensue,

and the substance is lost in the shadow. Hence men,

who are eminent for ability, rank, and fortune, frequently
view the honours of Masonry with indifference ; and,

when their patronage is solicited, either accept office with reluctance, or reject them with disdain.
" Masonry has long laboured under these disadvantages,
and every zealous friend of the Order must earnestly wish for a correction of the abuse. Of late years, it must be acknowledged, our assemblies have been in

general better regulated ; of which the good effects are

sufficiently displayed, in the judicious selection of our

members, and the proper observance of our general

regulations.

X

PREFACE.

"Were the Brethren who preside at our meetings to

be properly instructed previous to their appointment,

and duly apprised of the offices they are chosen to

support, a general reformation would speedily take place.

This conduct would establish the propriety of our gov-
ernment, and lead men to acknowledge that our honours

were not undeservedly conferred; the ancient conse-

quence of the Order would be restored, and the reputa-

tion of the Society preserved. Till genuine merit shall

distinguish our claim to the honours of Masonry, and

regularity of deportment display the influence and utility

of our rules, the world in general will not be led to re-

concile our proceedings with our professions."*
In coincidence with these sentiments, I am decidedly

of opinion that much general knowledge is necessary to

expand the mind, and familiarise it with masonic discus-

sions and illustrations, before a Brother can be pro-

nounced competent to undertake the arduous duty of

A governing a Lodge.

Master of the work ought to

have nothing to learn. He should be fully qualified, not

only to instruct the younger Brethren, but to resolve
the doubts of those who are more advanced in masonic

knowledge ;

to

reconcile

apparent

contradictions ;

to

settle chronologies, and to elucidate obscure facts or

mystic legends, as well as to answer the objections and

to render pointless the ridicule of our uninitiated adver-

saries.

Impressed with these ideas at a very early period of
my masonic career, it occurred to me that some aid was
wanting to convey a species of information on the subject of our antiquities which was not generally attainable in
the common routine of our Lodge pursuits; and that
desideratum I entertained the ambition of attempting to
supply. How far I have succeeded must be submitted

* Illustr., p. 12, Edit. xiv. and xv.

PREFACE.

X

to the fiat of the literary and intelligent portion of our community. The series is before them, and to their de-

cision I implicitly bow. The comprehensive nature of the inquiries embraced
in the present volume has not been without its difficulties. The arrangement is in a great measure new, and proportionably abstruse, and, therefore, I have advanced
with much caution, and have not ventured to introduce

any single fact without its accompanying authority.
Hence, any person who may be desirous of following in

the same track, will be comparatively free from the in-
tricacies with which I have been surrounded ; and may

refer without difficulty to the original sources from
whence I have drawn my information.

It is to be hoped that this work will display the

beauty of Christianity with some degree of effect, by

portraying the abhorrent superstitions and revolting

customs which were introduced amongst all nations

during the prevalence of idolatry, and the absence of

LIGHT

from

the

mind ;

for,

during

the

entire

period from

the Dispersion to the Advent of Christ, the whole world,

with a very inconsiderable exception, sat in DARKNESS AND THE SHADOW OF DEATH, and were enveloped in a veil

of delusion so impervious that all the exertions of their

wisest philosophers were ineffectual to obtain the least

glimmering of light, until it burst upon the world with

effulgent glory in the person of our blessed Eedeemer.
It will be seen by those who have perused the former

my edition, that I have altered

original plan, and have

comprised the whole work in twelve Lectures, that the

arrangement may correspond with my former publica-
tions on Freemasonry.
The whole of the original work has been retained except a few paragraphs which have been struck out of

the fifth Lecture, because they were considered irrele-
vant. Much additional matter has been substituted;

Xll

PREFACE.

and it is hoped that the general value of the work is
greatly increased.
The notes with which each Lecture is accompanied
are of great extent and variety. By this means I have
been enabled to embody a considerable portion of interesting matter without swelling out the volume to an unwieldy and inconvenient size; and I flatter myself that the general reader will meet with a fund of entertaining information which will materially assist him in any researches he may be inclined to make, either into
the antiquity of Masonry, or the parallel institutions of the heathen world.

ADVERTISEMENT.

THE Publisher of this Edition being desirous that I

should subjoin a list of the authorities which I original-

ly consulted to elucidate the various subjects of which

it treats, under an impression that such a means of refer-

ence might be useful to the Fraternity, I have endeavour-

ed to comply with his request, although the task has

been attended with some difficulty. It is several years

since the History of Initiation was written, and at that

period I had access to many valuable works which were
not in my own collection. I am now resident in a dis-

tant part of the country, and, to supply such a catalogue,

I must depend principally upon the strength of my

memory, which is not particularly retentive; for even

my the greater part of

own library is in Lincolnshire.

Should there be any inaccuracies, therefore, in any of

the titles, size, or number of volumes, I must claim the

my indulgence of

readers. The list does not contain all

the works which I found it necessary to consult : and I

regret to add, that I do not possess the means of making

it more extensive and correct.

Gr. 0.

ABULFARAGiiHistoriaPocockii,2vols
4to.
Acosta's History of the Indies. ^Eschylus, by Potter, 8vo. Ammiani Marcellini, Historia, fo. Anderson's Constitutions, 4to. Aneurin's Gododin, in Davies's Druids. Annales Usheri, fo. Apuleii Opera, 2 vols. 8vo. Arabian Nights Entertainment, 4 vols.
12mo.
Aristophanes, Greek and Latin, square 12mo.
Asiatic Researches, 12 vols. 8vo.
Ayeen Akbery, 3 vols. 4to.
Babylon, Ruins of, 8vo.

Earner's Mythology, 4 vols. 8vo. Bardwell" s Temples, 8vo. Barruel's History of the French Revo-
lution, 8vo.
Memoirs of Jacobinism, 4
vols. 8vo.
Bacchic Mysteries, on the, Pamphleteer, vol. viii. 8vo.
Bacon, R. Opus Majus, fo. Bernier's Travels in theMogul Empire,
2 vols. 8vo.
Berosus apud Eusebium, fo.
Bhagvat Geeta, 4to. Bilson's Survey of Christ's Sufferings. Bin Washish's Ancient Alphabets, by
Hammer, 4to.
Blair s Chronology, fo.

XIV

LIST OF AUTHORITIES,

Bocharti Sacra Geographia. Bower's History of the Popes, 4to. Brady's Claris Calendaria, 8vo. Brand's Popular Antiquities, 2 vols.
4to.
Brown's Vulgar Errors, 4to. Bryant's Analysis, 6 vols. 8vo. Buchanan's Researches in Asia, 4to.
Journey from Madras, 3
vols. 4to.
Buckingham's Travels in Palestine, 2 vols. ovo.
Buxtorfii Synagoga Judaica, 12mo, Lexicon Rabbinicum.
Calcott's Candid Disquisitions on Freemasonry, 8vo.
Calmet's Dictionary, 5 vols. 4to. Antiquities, 4to.
Camden's Britannia, by Gough, 4 vols.
4to.
Carne's Letters from the East, 8vo. Cave's Lives of the Fathers, fo. Celsus apud Origeu contra Celsum,
4to.
Choi-din's Travels in Persia, 2 vols. 8vo.
Chronicon Paschale, fo. Ciceronis Opera, 8vo. Clarke's Travels, 6 vols. 4to. Clemens Alexandrinus Stromata, fo. Couplet's History of China. Cudworth's Intellectual System, 2 vols.
4to.
Cumberland's Sanchoniatho, 8vo. Origines Gent. Antiquis-
sima, 8vo.
D'Anville on Ancient Geography, 2
vols. 8vo.
Davies's History and Mythology of the Druids, 8vo. Celtic Researches, 8vo. on British Coins, 8vo.
Dean's Worship of the Serpent, 8vo. Denon's Travels in Egypt, 2 vols. 8vo. Dermott's Ahiman Rezon, 8vo.
Desaguliers' Constitutions, 4to. D'Hancarville's Recherches sur les
Monumens Antiques de 1' India, 3
torn. 4to.
Diodori Siculi Bibliotheca Historica,
fo.
Diogenes Laertius, Greek and Latin, square 12mo.
Dionysius, de Divinis Nominibus. Dow' s History of Hindostan, 3 vols.
4to.
Dubois on the Institutions of India.
Du Halde's History of China, 4 vols.
8vo.
Eddas of Snorro and Saemund, in Mallet's Northern Antiquities.
Eleusinian Mysteries, on the, Pam-
phleteer, vol. viii. 8vo.

Encyclopedia Britannica, Londinensis, Metropolitana, Rees's, Perthensis, &c.
Euripides, by Potter, 8vo. Eusebius de Preparatio Evangelica, fo.
Faber's Mysteries of the Cabiri, 2 vols. 8vo. Pagan Idolatry, 3 vols. 4to.
Fenton's Hist, of Pembrokeshire, 4to. Fleury's Manners of the Ancient Is-
raelites, 12mo. Forbins' (Count de) Travels in the
Holy Land, 8vo. Freemasons' Magazine.
Gael and Cimbri, 8vo. Gage's Survey of the West Indies. Gale's Court of the Gentiles, 3 vols.
4to.
Godwyn's Moses and Aaron, 4to. Goranson's Histories in Mallet's Nor-
thern Antiquities. Grabe's Septuagint, 4 vols. fo. Greaves's Pyrarnidographia, 8vo. Greek Minor Poets, Greek and Latin,
12mo.
Grose's Voyage to the East Indies, 2
vols. 8vo.
Provincial Glossary, 8vo. Grotius de Veritate, 12mo.
Hales's Analysis of Chronology, 4 vols. 8vo.
Halhed's Code of Gentoo Laws, 4to. Hamilton's Egyptiaca, 4to. Heetopades, 8vo. Helvetian Ritual, a MS.
Herpdoti Historia, fo. Hesiod, Greek and Latin, 12mo. Holwell's Historical Events, 2 vols.
8vo.
, on the Feasts, &c., of the Hindoos, 2 vols. 8vo. Hope's Architecture, 8vo.
Horapollinis Hieroglyphica.
Humboldt's Personal Naarrrative, 7 vols.
8vo.
Monuments of the Ancient Inhabitants of America, 2 vols.
8vo.
Hutchinson's History of Cumberland, 2 vols. 4to.
Spirit of Masonry, 12mo. Hyde, Veterum Persarum Religionis
Historia, 4to.
Jamblichus de Mysteriis, fo. Jamieson's Scottish Dictionary, 4to. Jones's (Sir W.) Works, 6 vols. 4to. Jones's (Stephen) Masonic Miscella-
nies, 12mo. Josephus on the Antiquities of the
Jews, 4 vols. 8vo. Isocrates, by Dinsdall, 8vo. Julius Firmicus de Errore.

LIST OP AUTHORITIES.

XV

Ksempfer's History of Japan, 2 torn.
fo.
Keightly's Mythology, 8vp. Kellet's Tricseuium Christi, fo.
Laurie's History of Freemasonry in Scotland, 8vo.
Le Compte's Memoirs of China, 8vo. Lamb's Hieroglyphics, 8vo.
Lodwich's Antiquities of Ireland.
Le Noir, L'Autiquite de la Franc-Ma-
connerie, 4to.
Lord s Banian Religion Luciau de Del Syria.
Macrobii Opera, 8vo. Maimonides de Idolatria. Malcolm's History of Persia, 2 vols.
4to.
Memoirs of Central India, 2 vols. 8vo. Mallet's Northern Antiquities, by Bishop Percy, 2 vols. 8vo. Manetho apud Eusebium, fo. Marsh's Horse Pelasgicse, 8vo. Maundrell's Journey, 8vo. Maurice's Indian Antiquities, 7 vols.
8vo. Ancient History of Hindos-
tan, 4to.
Modern History of Hindos-
tan, 3 vols. 4to. Meyrick's History of Cardigan, 4to. Mills's History o the Crusades, 2 vols.
8vo. Chivalry, 2 vols. 8vo.
Milman's History of the Jews, 3 vols. 12mo.
Montfaucon, L'Antiquite expliquee, 5
torn. fo.
Moor's Hindoo Pantheon, 8vo. More's Apocalypsis Apocalypseon, 4to. Mounier's Influence of Freemasonry
on the French Revolution, 8vo.
Newton's Chronology, 4to. Niebuhr's Voyage in Arabia, 3 torn. fo. Nieuhoff 's Travels to India, fo. Norden's Travels in Egypt and Nubia.
Oliver's Signs and Symbols, 8vo.
m Antiquities of Masonry, 8vo.
Star the East, 12mo. History of Beverley, 4to. Orme's Transactions in India, 3 vols.
4to.
Historical Fragments, 8vo. Owen's Welsh Dictionary, 8vo.
Introduction toLlywarch Hen,
8vo.
Serpent Worship, 12mo.
Palmyra, Antiquities of, 8vo. Pamphleteer, vol. viii. 8vo. Parsons's Remains of Japheth, 4to.

Patricii Oracula Zoroastr, fo. Pau&anias, by Taylor, 3 vols. 8vo. Pennant's Tour in Scotland, 4to.
Journey to Alston Moor,
4to.
Perron's Zendavesta, 3 torn. 4to. Philonis J udaei Opera, fo. Philostrati Opera, fo. Philpot's Heraldry, 12mo. Pierii Hieroglyphica, fo. Pignorii Meusa Isiaca, 4to. Pinkerton's Collection of Travels, 4to. Platpnis Opera, 2 vols. fo. Plinii Naturalis Historia, fo. Plutarchi Opera, 8vo.
Iside et Osiride, 4to.
Pocockii Specimen Historiae Arabicas,
4to.
Poli Synopsis, 5 vols. fo.
Pontoppidon's History of Norway, fo. Porphyrius de Antro Nympharum,
Potter's Archaeology, 2 vols. 8vo. Preston's Illustrations of Masonry,
12mo. Prideaux's Connection, 2 vols. 8vo. Purchas's Pilgrim, fo.
Voyages and Travels, 6
vols. fo.
Pyramids, Description of the, fo.
Raleigh's History of the World, fo. Ramsay on the Theology of the Pagans
12mo.
Religious Ceremonies of all Nations,
fo.
Richardson's Dissertation, 8vq. Robertson's History of America, 8vo. Robison's Proofs of a Conspiracy, 8vo. Rollin's Ancient History, 10 vols.
12mo.
Rowland's Mona, 4to. Runic Poems, in Mallet's Northern
Antiquities.
Sacontala, Sir W. Jones's Works.
Sale's Koran, 2 vols. 8vo. Samme's Britannia, fo.
Satires of Perseus, 8vo. Savary's Letters on Egypt, 2 vols. 8vo,
Letters on Greece, 8vo. Deely's Wonders of Elora, 8vo. Delden de Diis Syriis, 8vo. Shuckford's Connection, 3 vols. 8vo. Smith's Use and Abuse of Freemason-
ry, 8vo. Southey, Notes to his Poems. Spencer de Legibus Hebroeorum, fo. Spineto's (Marquis of) Lectures, 8vo. Stanley's Chaldaic Philosophy, fo.
History of the Philosophers, 3 yols. fo. Stillingfleet's Origines Sacrse, 4to. Strabouis Geographia, fo. Stukeley's Itinerary, 2 vols. 4to.

xvi

LIST OF AUHTORITIES,

Stukeley's Stonehenge and Abury, 2
vols. 4to. Syncelli Chronographia, fo.
Tavernier, les Six Voyages, 6 torn. 4to. Taylor's Proclus, 2 vols. 4to. Tenison's Idolatry, 4to. Thevenot's Travels into the Levant, fo. Toland's History of the Druids, 8vo. Turnbull's Voyage round the World,
4to.
Turner's History of the Anglo-Saxons, 3 vols. 8vo.
Universal History (Ancient,) 18 vols. 8vo.
Universe Displayed, 4 vols. 8vo.
Valpy's Classics.

Vancou vre's Voyage round the World,
3 vols. 4to.
Verstegan's Restitution of Decayed
Intelligences, 4to. Volney's Travels in Syria, 2 vols. 8vo.
Wait's Oriental Antiquities, 8vo. Jewish Antiquities, 8vo.
Warburton's Divine Legation of Mo-
ses, 5 vols- 8vo.
Ward's View of the Hindoos, 8vo. Webb's Freemason's Monitor, 12mo. Welsh Archaeology, 3 vols. 8vo. Willett's Hexapla in Exodum, fo. Wormius's Danish Monuments, fo.
Young's Egyptian Antiquities, 8vo.
Zimmerman's Tract on the Illuminati.

HISTORY OF INITIATION,

LECTURE I.

GENERAL INTRODUCTION.

INITIATION may be traced to a period of the most re-
mote antiquity. In the infancy of the world the cere-
monies would be few and unostentatious, and consist,

perhaps, like that of admission into Christianity, of a

simple lustration, conferred alike on all, in the hope that

they would practise the social duties of benevolence and

good will to man, and unsophisticated devotion to God.1

It was after the stream of iniquity had inundated the
world, and bad men had turned a sacred institution into

ridicule

from

its

2
simplicity

and .easiness

of

access,

that

some discriminations became necessary, and the rites as-

sumed a higher and more imposing form. The distin-

guished few who retained their fidelity, uncontaminated

by the contagion of evil example, would soon be able to

estimate the superior benefits of an isolated institution

which afforded the advantage of a select society, and kept

at an unapproachable distance, the profane scoffer, whose

presence might pollute their pure devotion and social

converse by contumelious language or unholy mirth. To

prevent such intrusion, therefore, the rites of initiation

would become progressively more complicated, and some

1 This was, doubtless, primitive Masonry ; in reality nothing more than the practice of those simple moral precepts which were enjoined by a religion, pure as it came from the hand of God, and unadulterated by the innovations of man.
2 Warburton says, that it was an universal opinion that the heathen
Mysteries were instituted pure ; (Div. Leg., vol. i., p. 172.) referring, doubtless, to the primitive Science here described, which was the great original from whence they were derived.
2

2

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

distinctive tokens would be adopted as infallible tests to

exclude the uninitiated ; and enable the pious worshipper

to detect with unerring certainty the truth or falsehood of

any pretensions to a fraternity with the faithful followers of the true God.3 Their ordinary employment was in the

cultivation

of the

mind,

by

pursuits

of

4
literature,

the

study and contemplation of God's wisdom, in making,

ordering,

and

governing

the

world ;

together

with

obser-

vations on the motions of the heavenly bodies, and the

sciences of astronomy and geometry therein employed ;

which are sublime studies, and suppose or involve some

skill in

Letters,

first used in writing and in

5
numbering.

The study of Astronomy was indeed a favourite pursuit with the Freemasons, so to call them,6 who flourished be-

fore the Deluge, and would doubtless be one of the Sciences

inculcated on the initiated. Whether it led to the prac-

tice of

the

Sabean

superstition is matter of

7
conjecture;

3 The divine Enoch gave to these rites a decisive character, and

added to the practice of divine worship the study and application of

human science. ''Enoch was the first who invented books, and differ-

ent sorts of writing. The ancient Greeks declare that Enoch is the

same as Mercury Trismegistus, and that he taught the sons of men

the art of building cities, and enacted some admirable laws. In his

days 180 cities were built; gf these, that which was the least, was
Edessa. He discovered the knowledge of the Zodiac and the course

of the

Planets ;

and he pointed

out

to

the

sons

of men,

that

they

should

worship God. that they should fast, that they should pray, that they
should give alms, votive offerings and tenths. He reprobated abomin-

able foods and drunkenness, and appointed festivals for sacrifices to

the Sun at each of the Zodiacal Signs, &c., &c." (Bar Hebraeus, cited

by Wait. Orient. Ant., p. 182.) It will be observed that in the latter

part of the above quotation, Enoch is converted into an idolater; but

the author evidently blends into one, the characters of Enoch and Enos.

According to our traditions, Enoch was a very eminent Freemason,

and the conservator of the true name of God, which was subsequently

lost even amongst his favourite people, the Jews.

4
According

to

the

Bechinath

Ilapperushim, the doctrine of the

Patriarchs before the flood consisted of traditions of the Creation,

Paradise, the Seventh day, the Fall of Man, Cain's fratricide, &c., to

which, after the Flood, were added the Seven precepts of Noah. Vid.

Wait,

ut supra.

Pref., p.

viii. ;

and the Antiquities

of Freemasonry,

by

the Author of this Work, p. 93.

5 Cumb. Sanch., p. 226.

6 This was the race which the Freemasons of the present day regard

as their most early predecessors in the practice of rites, to which acci-

dent gave the name of Masonry. Vid. Ant. of Masonry, p. 17.

7
Bishop

Cumberland says,

"the chief suggestion which MBses has

given us concerning the beginning of idolatry before the Flood, is in

INTRODUCTION.

O

but we have no certain 1 evidence that it produced any

surreptitious rites, bearing a character similar to the

polluted

Mysteries

of

the

8
postdiluvians.

Such was Ini-

tiation in these primeval ages, and thus it passed through

the hands of the antediluvian patriarchs, unalloyed by

any innovations which might tend to vitiate its benefits,

or

circumscribe

its

9
blessings.

Gen. iv.. 26 : the words being translated, as in the margin of our Bibles, then, while Enos lived, men began to call THEMSELVES by the name of
the Lord; i. e. to be deified." (Cumb. Sanch., p. 304.) Maimonides, however, was decidedly of opinion that the antediluvians were addicted
to the solar and sideral worship. These are his words : "In the days of Enos. the son of Seth, men fell into grievous error, and even Enos
himself partook of their infatuation. Their language was, that since
God had placed on high the heavenly bodies, and used them as his ministers, it was evidently his will, that they should receive from man
the same veneration as the servants of a great prince justly claim from
the subject multitude. Impressed with this notion, they began to build temples to the stars, to sacrifice to them, and to worship them,
in the vain expectation that they should thus please the Creator of all
things. At first, indeed, they did not suppose the stars to be the only deities, but adored in conjunction with them, the Lord God Omnipotent. In process of time, however, that great and venerable Name was totally forgotten, and the whole human race retained no other
religion than the idolatrous worship of the host of heaven." (Maim, de Idol, apud Fab. Mys. Cab., vol. i., p. 10.) The patriarch Noah, however, should have been excepted from this general charge of
idolatry, for we know from an authority higher than that of Maimonides, that Noah was a just man and walked with God.

(Gen. vi. 9.)
8 The early attachment to this science thus displayed, produced some very curious fables in subsequent ages. Thus Atlas is represented as supporting the heavens on his shoulders ; a fiction arising entirely out of his reputed hnowledge of astronomy, for Atlas was but a personification of Enoch, who is said to have invented or greatly improved
this sublime science. Heraclitus (de incred., c. 4,) tells us that Atlas was the first eminent astronomer of the antediluvian world, and
Eupolemus in Eusebius (Praep. Evan., c. ix., 17,) ascribes the inven-
tion of astronomy to Enoch, which is no inconsiderable proof of their

identity.
A9 Masonic tradition is in existence, that our anted>luvian Brethren

engraved their ineffable secrets on pillars, and deposited them in a

cavern of the earth. In corroboration of this legend, the authors of

the Universal History say, that ''Manetho extracted his history from

certain pillars which he discovered in Egypt, whereon inscriptions had

been made by Thoth, or the first Mercury, in the sacred letters and

dialect ;

but were,

after the Flood, translated

frorrf the sacred dialect

into the Greek tongue, and laid up in the private recesses of the

Egyptian temples. These pillars were found in subterraneous caverns,

near Thebes, and beyond the Nile, not far from the sounding statue o!

Mcmnon, in a place called Syringes, which are Described to be certain

4:

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

But after the Flood the altar of Darkness10 was arrayed

against the altar of Light ; the patriarchal ordinances were

perverted ; the rites of Buddha were engrafted on the

pure

ceremonies

of the

masonic

11
ritual,

and

the

plains

of

Shinar resounded with the frantic yellings of the rebel-

lious Cuthites.12 By subsequent corruptions, the arkite

rites thus boldly introduced, 13 at length assumed the more

complex form of Brahmenism,14 and were solemnized with

winding apartments under ground, and which, as it is said, those who were skilled in ancient rites, foreseeing the coming of the Deluge, and
fearing lest the memory of their ceremonies should be obliterated, built and contrived vaults, dug with vast labour, in several places ; cutting on the walls many sorts of birds and beasts, and innumerable
kinds of animals, which they called hieroglyphical letters." (Vol. i.,

p. 39.)
10 It may be observed here, that in all the idolatrous systems. Dark-

ness was honoured with peculiar marks of veneration, by reason of its

supposed priority of

existence ;

for those who were unable to

extend

their ideas beyond the creation of this world, always considered dark-

ness to have been of greater antiquity than light; and hence their

cosmogonies all commence with dark chaos. This principle was iden-

tified with the Great Mother, (for Venus and Night were the same

individual deity, Orph. Hymn. 2.) who, representing equally the earth
and the ark of Noah, remained enveloped in the blackest shades of

darkness, both before the creation and during the prevalence of the

diluvian waters. (Vid. Signs and Symbols, by the Author of this
Work, Lect. 6.) And this awful goddess was no other than the Isis,

or Ceres, or Rhea, or Ceridwen of the Mysteries. (Signs and Symb.,

pref.)
It "'' has been often supposed," says Malcolm, " that Buddhism

resembles Brahmenism, which is a great mistake. No two systems

can be more opposite, or bear less evidence of being derived from each

other. Brahmenism has incarnations, but Buddhism admits of none,

for it has no permanent god. That has a host of idols; this only one.

That enjoins bloody sacrifices; this forbids all killing. That requires

atrocious self tortures this inculcates few austerities. ;

That makes

lying, theft, and other vices sometimes commendable, and describes

the gods as. excelling in those enormities; this never coufounds right

and wrong, and never excuses any sin. That makes absorption into

deity the supreme good ; this annihilation.

12
sage

Fainbewrhciocnhten"dtshethpatroipdhoeltatroyf

commenced at Babel, from that pasthe Apocalypse styles Babylon or

Babel, the

mother of harlots

and

abominations

of the

earth ;

(Rev.

viii., 5.) by which is meant, in the figurative language of scripture, that

all the abominations of apostate idolatry originated from that city as
from a common parent." (Pag. Idol., vol. i., p. 77. 13 Signs and Symbols, Lect. 5.

14 The mysterious systems of polytheism branched off into two great

sects, which have been distinguished by mythologists, under the names of Buddhism and Brahmenism. each possessing its own peculiarities,

INTRODUCTION.

O

such splendour of ceremonial pomp and imposing mag-

nificence of decoration, that they excited universal notice,

and their peculiar symbols were introduced into the

celestial

15
sphere.

The apostacy was attractive, and the

spurious initiations aimed at extinguishing the unpre-
suming blaze of truth, which is now denominated Masonry,

supported only by the unpopular recommendations of silent devotion to God and unoffending simplicity to man ;

accompanied by a life which coveted no distinctions in this

world, but such as emanate from piety and virtue. At the

dispersion, the architects of Babel travelled into distant

countries, each tribe under its ostensible leader, bearing

the sacred ark of the favourite deity, under whose pro-

tection they penetrated into unknown climes, and settled

in such situations as promised to yield them shelter and

16
support.

The surreptitious initiations accompanied each

tribe, increasing in pomp and celebrity, until they literally

covered the earth as the waters cover the sea. 17 They

sprang up in the East like some insignificant plant, but

which marked a distinctive character; separating their professors
from each other by conflicting ordinances, and often producing inextinguishable hatred and sanguinary hostility. The mixed tribes, who emigrated from Shinar under the direction of a Cuthite priesthood

and nobility, adopted the latter system, while the unmixed tribes

adhered to the former. (Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. ii, p. 36.) The Indians, the Greeks, (except Pythagoras, who practised a modification of

Buddhism,) and the Britons were Brahmenists, while the Chinese, the Japanese, the Persians, and the Saxons were Buddhists. The dis-
tinctions between these two sects were arbitrary. The Buddhists were Magians, the Brahmenists were Sabians ; and how abhorrent

soever it may appear from the mild and bloodless character of the

primitive Buddha, the former maintained their superiority by the sword, the latter were peaceable, and addicted to the arts of civil and
social life. In some nations the two systems became, in subsequent

ages, so intimately blended, that the minute distinctions of each were

swallowed up in the broad outline of the general scheme. Of these, the Indians and the Britons may be marked out as the chief.

15 Fab. Mys. Cab., vol. i., p. 203.

16 It is evident from Josephus, (Ant. Jud., 1. i., c. 4.) that a regular

idolatrous priesthood was established prior to that dispersion ; for he

says, citing from Hestiaeus, "the priests of Jupiter the conqueror, sur-

viving the general destruction, having preserved the holy vessels and

ornaments, repaired with them to Babylon."

17 Zosim., 1. iv., apud Warb. Div. Leg. It is a melancholy fact, that

before the advent of the Messiah, the whole earth was polluted with

these

abominations ;

and

every

country

had its

system

of

religious

mysteries j all partaking of the source from which they undoubtedly

sprang.

6

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

grew and enlarged with such prodigious rapidity and strength, that soon their vigorous branches spread from east to west, from north to south. The continent of Asia

was pervaded in every part of its vast and spacious sur-

face ;

the shores of Africa basked under their shade,

and

disseminated their abominations; theyimparted activity

to the adventurous designs of the Phenician merchants,
and gave distinction to the Greek and Koman name;

the distant isles of Britain and Hibernia; the cold and

inhospitable regions of Scandinavia and Iceland, alike
yielded to their sway; and even the distant and unknown colonies which peopled the woods and forests of the new

world, felt and acknowledged their utility in enslaving

and reducing to abject submission the savage nature of

their fierce inhabitants. 18

The universal Deluge wrould produce a tremendous

effect on the minds of the survivors, and as a knowledge

of this terrible event was propagated amongst their posterity, it would naturally be accompanied by a veneration

for the piety, and afterwards for the persons of the favour-
ed few who were preserved from destruction by the visi-

ble interference of the Divinity. This veneration, increas-

ing with the march of time, and with the increasing oblivion of the peculiar manner in which their salvation

18 The Mysteries, after they were once instituted, which probably

took place on the plains of Shinar, before the dispersion of mankind,

spread over the world with a rapidity which is truly astonishing. They

were introduced into India by Brahma, into China and Japan by

Buddha, into Egypt by Thoth the son of Mizraim, (Ant. Mas., p. 148,)

into Persia by Zeradusht, (Pooocke. Spec. Hist. Arab., p. 147,) into

Greece by Melarnpus, (Herod., 1. ii., c. 4.,) or Cadmus, (Epiphan. adv.

Hser., 1. 5.) into Boeotia b}^ Prometheus and his son, (Etnaeus. Pausan.

Bseot., p. 300, )into Crete by Minos, into Samothrace by Eumolpusor

Dardanus, (Bp. Marsh. Horse Pelasg., p. 9.) into Messene by Caucon,

(Pausan. Messen., p. 281,) into Thebes by Methapus, into Athens by

Erectheus, into Etruria by Philostratus, (Apoll. Bibl., 1. iii., c. 5.) into the city of Arene by Lycus,into Thrace by Orpheus, into Italy by the

Pelasgi, (Bp. Marsh. Hor. Pelasg., p. 9.) into Cyprus by Cinyras, into Gaul and Britain by Gomer or his immediate descendants, into Scan-

dinavia

by

Sigge

or

Odin,

(Mai.

North.

Ant.,

v.
i.,

p.

62,)

into

Mexico

by Vitzliputzli, (Purch. Pilg.. b. viii., c. 10.) and into Peru by Manco Capac and his wife. (Garcilasso. b. i., c. 15.) Hence it will follow, by a clear induction, that all the Mysteries throughout the world were the same in substance, being derived from one source, and celebrated in honour of the same deities, though acknowledged under

different appellations.

INTRODUCTION.

7

was accomplished, at length assumed the form of an
idolatrous worship, and Nimrod, the first open apostate, instituted a series of divine honours to Noah arid his triple
offspring, who were identified with the Sabian worship,
and gave the original impulse to the helioarkite superstition. Hence the Sun and Noah were worshipped in
conjunction with the Moon and the Ark,19 which latter subsequently represented the female principle, and was
acknowledged in different nations, under the various ap-

of Isis, Venus, Astarte, Ceres, Proserpine, Rhea,

Eeiltla,atCieornisdwen, Frea, &c., while the former, or male prin-

ciple, assumed the names of Osiris, Saturn, Jupiter, Nep-

tune, Bacchus, Adonis, Hu, Brahma,

Odin,

20
&c.,

which

by degrees introduced the abominations of the phallic worship ; while Vesta represented the Ark itself, Minerva the divine wisdom and j ustice, which produced the Deluge and preserved the ark upon its waters, Iris was the rain-
bow, and Juno the arkite dove. On these rude begin-
nings the whole complicated machinery of the Mysteries was formed, which completely banished from the political
horizon of idolatry the true knowledge of God, and of a superintending providence. Each of these deities had legitimate and appropriate symbols, which ultimately became substituted for the antitype, and introduced amongst mankind the worship of animals, and the inanimate objects of the creation.
Added to this, the doctrine of the influences of the
heavenly bodies over the affairs of men was assiduously
inculcated, and as the supernal deities were consecrated
into the principal stars, their priests were supposed to be invested with a power of directing those influences at pleasure; and the high rewards of a residence with them in the same happy mansions was held out to all the virtuous
who embraced their opinions ; which may afford an additional reason why the system extended itself so generally over

19 Mr. Faber conceives that "the ancient mythologists considered the whole frame of the heavens in the light of an enormous ship. In
it they placed the Sun, as the fountain of light and heat; and assigned
to him, as the acknowledged representative of the great father, the office of pilot," (Pag. Idol., vol. i.. p. 30.)
20 These were the various appellations which different people bestowed on the same divinity, the founder of their nation, male or female. They constitute the same false principle to which the Mysteries were uni-
versally consecrated.

8

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

the

face of the earth ;

for

the

priests, thus

potent

and

despotic, would not fail to consign to universal execration

and contempt in the present world, and eternal torment

in the next, the impious contemner of their rites, while

rewards and honours would be accumulated on those who

distinguished themselves in the defence of their apostacy

from

the

simplicity

of

primitive

21
worship.

And the triumph of this diabolical system was com-

plete

by

the

invention

of

the

22
Metempsychosis,

in

which

they were taught to believe that the unhappy soul of the

wicked despiser of the Mysteries was doomed to a trans-

migration of three thousand years' duration. This doctrine

was a fearful engine in the hand of a politic priesthood to

enslave the mind through the influence of imaginary

fears. What could be more terrible than the contempla-

tion of a punishment which degraded the human soul

beneath its natural superiority of character, and consigned

it to a long succession of transmigrations through the

polluted bodies of ravenous beasts, or loathsome rep-
tiles?23 And who would be bold enough to reject or

21 Maurice early times,

asserts, from Porphyry in " the whole Thebais united

Eusebius, that in in acknowledging a

the most supreme,

presiding Spirit, whom they called Cneph, upon which account they

were excused from paying the public taxes, levied to defray the ex-

pences of maintaining the sacred animals adored in the cities of

Egypt." (Ind. Ant., vol. iv., p. 672.) Cneph was a serpent- deity, and was affirmed to be the creator of the world. (Euseb. praep. Evan.. 1.

iii., c. 11.)

22 The greatest philosophers of all ages and nations considered this

doctrine to be perfectly orthodox. Malcolm gives a curious account of

the transmigration of Godama, the Buddhist king. ' : Godama was the son of a king, who had previously lived in four hundred millions

of worlds, and passed through innumerable conditions in each. In

this world he had been almost every sort of worm, fly, fowl, fish, or animal, and in almost every grade and condition of human life.

Having in the course of these transitions, attained immense merit, he

at length was born son of the above-mentioned king. The moment he

was born,
claimed '

he jumped upon his feet, and
Now I am the noblest of men \

spreading out his arms, exThis is the last time I shall

ever be born !' When in this state his mind was enlarged, so that he
remembered his former conditions and existences, of which he rehearsed many to his followers. Five hundred and fifty of these narrations have been preserved, one relating his life and adventures as a

deer; another as a monkey, elephant, fowl, &c."

^Thus, in the ordinances of Menu, it is decreed, that, "a man who designedly takes away the property of another, or eats any holy cake
not first presented to the deity at a solemn rite," in defiance, I suppose,

INTRODUCTION.

9

contemn a system which bore the ensigns of such a dread-

ful retribution?

Meanwhile the true light of Masonry declined in public

estimation as the rapid progress of its earth-born24 adver-

sary made all nations and people and languages bend

before it, until it gave portentous intimation of ap-

proaching decay ; and nought could have saved it from

extinction, had it not been reinvigorated by the Essenes,

a well-intentioned sect of people amongst the Jews, who

took

charge

of

the

forsaken

25
Institution,

cherished

it

in

or contempt of the holy ordinance, " shall inevitably sink to the con-
dition of a brute." (Sir W. Jones, Works, vol. in., p. 453.) " The slayer

of a Brahmin must enter, according to the circumstances of his crime,

the body of a dog, a boar, an ass, a camel, a bull, a goat, a sheep, a stag,
a bird, chandala, or a pucassa". (Ibid., p. 451.) "He who steals the gold

of a priest, shall pass a thousand times into the bodies of spiders, of

snakes and chameleons, of crocodiles and other aquatic monsters, or of

mischievous blood-sucking demons." (Ibid., p. 451.) In the Bhagvat Geeta

this degrading species of on the despisers of the

punishment is still sacred Mysteries.

more pointedly denounced " Because of their folly,"

says the good Crishna, " they adopt false doctrine and continue to live

the life of impurity ; therefore I cast down upon the earth those furious, abject wretches, those evil beings who thus despise me, into the wombs

of evil spirits and unclean beasts. Being doomed to the wombs of

Assoors, (daemons) from birth to birth, at length, not finding me, they

go into the most infernal regions." (p. 116, 117.)

24 1 have denominated the surreptitious initiations earth-born, in con-

tradistinction to the purity of Freemasonry, which was certainly

derived from above. And to those who contend that Masonry is no-

thing more than a miserable relic of the idolatrous mysteries, (vid.

Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 190,) I would reply in the emphatic

words of an inspired apostle; "Doth a fountain send forth at the

same place sweet water and bitter ? Can the fig tree bear olive ber-

ries ? either a vine figs ? so can no fountain both yield salt water and

fresh. The wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable,

full of mercy and good fruits." (James iii., 11, 12, 17.) I wish to be

distinct and intelligible on this point, as some misapprehensions are

afloat respecting the immediate object of my former volume of Signs

and Symbols ; and I have been told, that the arguments there used

afford an indirect sanction to the opinion that Masonry is derived

from the Mysteries. In answer to this charge, if it require one, I

only need refer to the general tenor of

that volume ;

and

to

declare

my explicitly

firm opinion, founded

on

intense

study

and

abstruse

research, that the Science which we now denominate Speculative

Masonry was coeval, at least, with the creation of our globe, and that

the far-famed Mysteries of idolatry were a subsequent institution,

founded on similar principles, with the design of conveying unity and

permanence to the false worship, which it otherwise could never have

acquired.
*5 Vid. "The Progress of Light," a Sermon, by the author of this

10

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

their bosom, until its rays of light once more began to

illuminate the surrounding darkness; and it thence con-

tinued to enlighten a narrow and restricted path, termi-

nating, however, in the broad and glorious blaze of

splendour that dissipated the unholy shades of idolatry,

in the person of Jesus Christ.

Long antecedent to the time when this benevolent dis-

pensation was promulgated, which brought life and

immortality to light, and clearly revealed those important

truths which the metaphysical reasonings of heathen

philosophy could never fathom, were the practices ex-

hibited which form the subject of the following pages.
In those distant times, and amongst the people who had

renounced the homage which the creature owes to the

Creator, the rites of initiation were so indispensable, that

no one could rise to any degree of celebrity in the reli-

gious or political institutions of polytheism, but by

passing

through

this

preliminary

form ;

it was

the

only

avenue to honour, wealth, or fame; and the peculiar

blessings of immortality were restricted to those alone,

who had borne without shrinking or complaint, the pri-

vation and actual terrors of this rigorous ordeal. To

despise the Mysteries, or omit the process of initiation,

were

to

relinquish

all

the

title

to

2G
preferment ;

and

even

the comforts and charms of domestic life were scarcely

attainable without this indispensable qualification, which

was supposed to restore the fallen soul to its original
f state of perfection for the uninitiated person was vir-

tually an outcast from society, an eternal object of

suspicious jealousy, and almost without the pale of legal

protection. Hence the extreme utility, in these times of

superior light, of investigating a subject of such exten-

sive application and high importance towards elucidating

many abstruse points in the history and mythology of

Work. Laurie, in his History of Freemasonry in Scotland, has also

taken a clear view of this subject; and has instituted a comparison

between the usages of the Essenes and those of Freemasonry. Laurie

was an intelligent Mason,

and

has written an useful

book ;

although

I differ from him on some important points.

26 The first initiation was a sort of baptism, and simple introduction

to religious privileges, conferred on persons in their infancy. }7 Plato. Phaedone. The Orphic mysteries were dignified with the

high appellation of Orphotelestte, because the initiated were assured

of certain happiness in a future state.

INTRODUCTION.

11

the ancient world, which are at present wrapt up in the

mantle of obscurity, and need this Master-Key to bring

them into light. The Casket, which contains a splendid

collection of antique jewels of inestimable value, has

long been closed, and its riches inaccessible to the eager

eye of curiosity; but by the prudent use of this talis-

manic key, the bolts may be withdrawn, and the contents

exposed to the penetrating gaze of antiquarian research.

Initiation involved all the confused and complicated

mechanism of heathen mythology ; and many of the po-

litical and domestic customs of antiquity may be traced

to the same inexhaustible and prolific source. It was

considered to be a mystical death, or oblivion of all the

stains and imperfections of a corrupted and an evil life, as

well as a descent into hell, where every pollution was

purged by lustrations of fire, and, water ; and the perfect

Epopt

was

then

said

to

be

28
regenerated

or

new

born,

re-

stored to a renovated existence of life, light and purity,

and placed under the Divine protection. This was a

figurative representation of the descent of Noah into the

Ark, which was a place of refuge from the punishment

inflicted on the sins with which the old world was stain-

ed.29 Here he remained in darkness and solitude, im-

pressed with feelings of horror and apprehension, not

unaptly termed death, until the earth had been purified

by

a

general

30
lustration;

and

then with

the

seven just

28 This Regeneration originated the very curious ceremony of the Taurobolium and Criobolium, or the bloody baptism of the Bull and Ram. (Vid. Ant. of Masonry, p. 115.) The ram as well as the bull was a legitimate symbol of the Ark of Noah, and hence the motives
which produced the superstition will not be difficult to account for.
9 The eastern Christians had a curious tradition, derived, probably, from some ceremony in the mysteries, which were decidedly arkite, that when God ordered Noah to build the Ark, he also directed
him to make an instrument of wood, such as is used in the East at
this day instead of bells, to call the people to worship, and named in
Arabic, nakus, which he was to strike three times every day, not only to call together the workmen that were building the Ark, but to give him an opportunity of daily admonishing them of the impending danger of the Deluge. (Univ. Hist., vol. i., p. 43.)
30 If the theory be correct which supposes the natural cause of the Deluge to be the near approach of a powerful comet to the earth, as is advanced by Mr. Whiston, whose power of attraction not only elevated the tides to a prodigious height above their customary level, but burst the central abyss and caused the waters to rush out with a
dreadful concussion then the lustration may be said, as it actually

12

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

persons who were incarcerated with him, he emerged into the light and hope of a new and perfect world on

which the favour of heaven once more smiled, as it did

on the first created man in the garden of Eden. The

candidate, at his initiation, was a representative of the

patriarch during his erratic voyage and subsequent delivery from destruction.31 Like Noah, he beheld, in a

figurative manner, the uncontrolled licence of the iron

32
age,

the

anarchy and

contentions

of

the

impious

race

before

the

Flood,

under

the

sway

of

their

prince

33
Ophion,

like Noah, he descended into Hades or the Ark, a place

was in the Mysteries, to have been accomplished by fire and water;
and it is remarkable that all the heathen accounts of the Deluge
ascribe that event to the agency of fire. (Ovid. Metam., 1. i.) And

the account in Hesiod's Theogony of the destruction of the Titans,

who were no other than the impious antediluvians, is replete with

the same terrific machinery ; thunder, lightning, fire, and water. In the highly figurative account of the Deluge exhibited in the Courma
Avater of the Hindoos, the mountain Mandar, which represents the

earth, is said to be involved in raging flames which spread destruc-
tion on every side. (Bhagvat Geeta, p. 148.) It was, indeed, a com-
mon belief amongst all nations that the Deluge was accompanied by a torrent of fire. ** Pionus, who suffered martyrdom in the year 250,

under the Emperor Decius, among other things, spake thus to his

unbelieving persecutors: 'Ye yourselves, from your old traditions,

acknowledge that the Deluge of Noah, whom you call Deucalion,

was mingled with
of this matter.' "

fire, yet do you (Pontoppidon.

but half understand the Hist. Norway, p. 52.)

real Sale,

truth
from

Al Beidawi says, that the waters of the Deluge were reputed to have

burst from a hot-oven at Cufa; (Koran, Edit. 1825, vol. ii., p. 44, in

nota. b.) and the Parsees similarly fabled that the waters proceeded
from the hot-oven of an old woman named Zala. On this curious

subject the authorities are numerous and convincing. The intelligent

reader may profitably consult Hyde de Rel. vet. Pers., c. 10. Vid.

etiam Plat. Tim., p. 22. Plin. Nat. Hist., 1. ii., c. 25. Cedren. Hist. Comp., p. 10. Strabo. Geogr., p. 197. Cudw. Int. Syst., p. 328.

Wilkins. Bhagvat. Geeta, p. 147. Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. ii., b. iii., c.

4. Myst. Cab., vol. i., p. 82. Dav. Celt. Kes., p. 157. Maur. Ind.

Ant., vol. ii., p. 344. Edda Snor., Fab. 32. Mai. North. Ant., vol. ii.

31 The Mysteries, in all their forms, were funereal. They cele-

brated the mystical death and revivification of some individual, by the

use of emblems at once impious and disgusting. Israelites of this abominable practice in Psalm cvi.

David accuses the
(v. 28, 29.) " They

joined themselves to Baal Peor, (Dionusus, Orph., Hymn 5.) and ate

the sacrifices of the dead. Thus they provoked Him to auger with

their inventions."

2 Vid. Ovid. Metam., 1. i.

33
Apollon. Argon., 1. i.

Ophion was no other than the infernal

Serpent, the equal foe of God and man.

INTRODUCTION.

13

of solitude and darkness, and here in safety he heard the

dissolution of the world, the rush of waters, the dis-

memberment of rocks and mountains, the bitter cries and

shrieks of despairing sinners in the agonies of remorse

and death ;

like Noah, he passed unhurt through the

purifying

element 34 j

and

being

thus

regenerated,

like

the

diluvian patriarch, he emerged into a new life of purity

and

35
perfection,

and

rejoiced

in

the

distinction

which,

he

was taught to believe, his piety had conferred.36

The legend of initiation was this.

57
Osiris,

king

of

Egypt, to confer benefits on the nations around him, left

the government of his kingdom to the care of his wife
Isis, and travelled for three years to communicate to
them the arts of civilization. On his return, he fell a

sacrifice to the intrigues of his brother Typhon, who had
formed a conspiracy in his absence to destroy him and
usurp his throne. He was invited to a grand entertainment in the month of November, when the Sun was in

Scorpio, at which all the conspirators were present.

34 Ablutions were profusely used during the initiations. Nationes

extraneae sacris quibusdam initiantur Isidis alicujus, aut Mithrse

per lavacrum. (Tertull.) Apuleius thus describes those of Isis: Sa-

cerdos,

stipatum me religiosd cohorte, deducit ad proximas

balneas ;

et prius suelo lavacro traditum, prsefatus Deura veniam, purissime

circumrorans abluit. (Metam., lib. ix.)
35 The aspirant figuratively, like Noah in reality, was thus said to

bo an inhabitant or

two worlds ;

and

to

be

equally

acquainted

with

things past,

present,

and to come ;

in

prseteritorum memoria et pro-

videntia futurorum. Cic. de Senect.

36 Thus introduced to all the blessings of a new mythological existence, the aspirant was represented under the figure of a new born

infant seated on the lotos or water lily, which was a symbol of the Ark of Noah. But the infant and lotos was an emblem of the Sun,

(Plut. de Isid. et Osir., p. 355,) as well as of the aphanism and euresis ; and, therefore, the regenerated aspirant was an emblem of
the Sun; which agrees with the patriarch Noah in the helio-arkite

superstition.
17 The fable respecting the birth of Osiris is thus related by the
authors of the Universal History, (vol. i., p. 268): "On the day
Osiris was born, a voice was heard crying out 'the Lord of all things is come into the world ;' or, according to others, a damsel called Pamyles, going to fetch water from tho temple of Jupiter, at Thebes, heard a loud voice commanding to proclaim * The great
and beneficent king Osiris is born.' He was delivered to this damsel, who was directed to nurse him, which she did with all the veneration
due to such a charge ; performing the mysteries called Pamylia, like those styled Palephoria, in honour of the infant."

14

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

Typhon produced a valuable chest, richly inlaid with

gold, and promised to give it to any person present
whose body it would most conveniently contain. Osiris was tempted to try the experiment ; but was no sooner laid in the chest, than it was nailed down and thrown

into the river. This was the aphanism of the Mysteries ; and it must be observed that the candidate was put

through a corresponding series of ceremonies to produce
a strong and lasting impression upon his mind. The first persons who discovered the above transaction were Pan33 * and the Satyrs, who communicated the intelligence to
the inhabitants, and they were filled with horror and

amazement.

The body of Osiris, thus committed to the mercy of

winds

and waves, was

cast

up

at

Byblus,

in

39
Phenicia,

and left at the foot of a tamarind tree. Isis, in the ex-

tremity of sorrow and despair at the loss of her husband, set out in company with Thoth, and traversed the earth in search of the body, making the air re-echo with her

lamentations. After many extraordinary adventures, they

at length gained possession of her husband's corse, with which she returned to Egypt in triumph, intending to

give it a splendid interment. By the treachery of Typhon
she was again deprived of the body, which was severed

into fourteen parts, andsecretedin as many different places.
Isis, with unparalleled zeal and perseverance, undertook

a second journey to search for the scattered fragments ; and after considerable fatigue, and repeated disappoint-

38 This is said to be the origin of the word panic to express exceeding great amazement and fear." (Plut. Is. et Osir., p. 19.)
39 The present appearance of the caverns at Byblus, where these ceremonies were solemnized, is thus described : " About half a mile to
the southward of the court are two towers, supposed to be sepulchral monuments, for they stand on an ancient burying place. [The initiations were always funereal.] They are about ten yards distant from each other, one in form of a cylinder, crowned by a multilateral pyramid, thirty-three feet high including the pedestal, which is ten feet high and fifteen square. The other is a long cone, discontinued at about
the third part of its height ; and, instead of ending in a point, wrought into an hemispherical form : it stands upon a pedestal six feet high, and sixteen feet six inches square, adorned at each angle with the figure of a lion in a sitting posture. Under ground there are square chambers of convenient height for a man, and long cells branching out from them, variously disposed and of different lengths. These subterraneous chambers and cells are cut out of the hard rock." (Univ.
Hist., vol. ii., p. 9.)

INTRODUCTION.

15

mcnts, she succeeded in finding every part, and buried them in the several places where they were discovered,
erecting an altar over every grave, to mark the situation where her beloved husband's remains were deposited. It was then proclaimed that Osiris was risen from the dead ; and the most extravagant demonstrations of joy were used to express the sincere delight of the mystse on this interesting occasion. This was the euresis.
It will be observed that the main facts in this fable
were in all countries the same, although the names of the individuals in whose honour the rites were celebrated,
varied with the varying language of the people.
Ogygia me Bacchum vocat ;
Osirin Egyptus putat ; Mysi Phanacem nominant ; Dionuson Indi existimant ;
Romana sacra Liberum ;
Arabica gens Adoneum.40

As in Egypt Osiris and Isis were the prominent deities, so in Greece the rites were celebrated in honour of Bac-

chus

and Rhea 41 ;

at Byblus, to

Adonis

and

Venus ;

in

Hu India, to Mahadeva and Sita ; in Britain, to

and

Ceridwen ;

in

Scandinavia, to Woden and Frea,

&c. ;

and

amongst the Pelasgi they were called the mysteries of the

Dii Magni. In every instance these divinities represented

the two most obvious lights of heaven, the sun and the

moon.42 On the above legend the dramatic scenes of

initiation were constructed. They were pompous and

imposing, and conducted with great splendour, as vehi-

cles intended to uphold false systems of religion ; and

10 Auson. Epig. 30.

41 The emblems by which this goddess was designated are so strik-

ing, that I cannot resist the opportunity of quoting them from the

learned Bryant. (Anal., vol. iii., p. 247.) She is figured as a beauti-

ful female personage and has a chaplet in which are seen ears of corn

like rays. Her right hand reclines on a pillar of stone, in her left are

spikes of corn, and on each side a pomegranate. Close by her

side stands the beehive, out of the top of which there arise corn and

flowers, to denote the renewal of seasons, and promise of plenty. In

the centre of these fruits, the favourite emblem, the pomegranate, ap-

pears again and crowns the whole.

43 Dion. Hal., 1. 2, c. 12. Macrob. Saturn., 1. c. 21. Diod. Bibl., 1. p.

10. Varro de Ling. Lat., 1. 4. p. 17. Orph. Fragm., iv., p. 364. Virg.

W. Georg., 1. 1. Montif. Ant., torn. 2, p. 189.

Arch., vol. i., p. 305.

16

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

while they embodied important truths of revelation, studiously concealed them from the knowledge of all but
those who were interested in perpetuating the imposture.
A new language, mysterious and symbolical, was

adapted to these celebrations ; and a system of hierogly-

phics, legible only to the initiated, placed the learning, the morality, and the politics of every nation as decidedly out of the reach of popular acquirement, as if they had
been incased in a rock of adamant.43 And the jealousy

of the hierophants, or dispensers of these Mysteries, be-

came at length so strongly excited, that trembling for
their secret, they subsequently invented a new hierogly-

phic or sacred symbolical character44 and language, which

was exclusively appropriated to the highest Degree of

their

Order 45 ;

in

which

it

is

probable

that

nearly the

same symbolical characters were made use of, but the

hidden

meaning

attached

to

each

was

entirely

4G
changed ;

so that even those who had been initiated into the pre-

liminary Degrees, and made acquainted with the common

curiologic and tropical hieroglyphics, were as completely ignorant of the nature and secrets of the ineffable De-

grees, to which but few were admitted, as the uninitiated

themselves.47 So artfully were these mysteries construct-

ed, that they were perfectly understood by none but the

hierophants and mystagogues, whose interest and per-

sonal welfare were bound up in their concealment; and

they succeeded so effectually in establishing an absolute

control, by the influence of visionary and preternatural

43 Vid. Pococke. Descr. of Egypt, vol. i., p. 227. 44 Herod., 1. ii., 36. 45 So effectually was the meaning of these hieroglyphics hidden from
all but the distinguished few, that in process of time the interpreta-
tion was entirely lost. At the invasion of Cambyses it was but im-
perfectly understood ; and in the time of Alexander the Macedonian, none could be found to show the meaning of, or design anew, a hiero-

glyphical inscription.
46 Thus, if in the common hieroglyphic, a hawk signified the human soul, in the sacred hieroglyphic it would stand for Expedition ; and thus essentially would the signification of every particular emblem be
altered.

47 An opinion was industriously promulgated, that the sacred hiero-

glyphic and language was the same as was used by the celestial deities.

A ( Jambl. de Myst., 7, c. 4.)

phonetic alphabet has recently been

discovered amongst these hieroglyphics, which is described and ex-

plained in my Theocratic Philosophy of Freemasonry, p. 122.

INTRODUCTION.

17

terrors, that the very name of INITIATION, though pos-

sessing a wild charm, whose effects on the mind were

48
indescribable,

yet

would

conjure

up

unheard

of fears,

and blanch the cheek with imaginary apprehensions. Its

process, by artful changes, introduced at different periods, in shades so delicate as to be unobserved, had become

4!)
revolting ;

its

probations

were

severe.

Innumerable

ceremonies, wild and romantic, dreadful and appalling,

had been engrafted on the few expressive symbols of

primitive observance; and instances have occurred where

the terrified aspirant, during the protracted rites, has

absolutely expired through excess of fear.50

It has been observed that the priests were peculiarly

interested

in

the

general

dissemination

of

the

51
Mysteries,

and therefore it is no wonder that they should endeavour

to induce as many as possible to participate in the

advantages which were ostensibly attached to the process

of initiation. For this purpose the Mysteries were pro-

claimed the beginning of

a new life of

reason and

virtue

52
;

and the initiated, or esoteric companions were said to

entertain the most agreeable anticipations respecting

48 Whence the Greek proverb, when any one was transported with
extraordinary sensations of pleasure, 'EnortTevhv uoi 8oy.(5, I feel as though I had been initiated. (Vid. Warb. Liv. Leg., vol. i., p. 166.)
<9 Clemens of Alexandria exclaims with indignation : " Such are your

voluptuous symbols your insulting theologies the institutions of your libidinous gods your satyrs, naked nymphs, and contests of buffoons exposed in shameless nudity." It is a melancholy fact, that in the mysteries practised at Alexandria. children of both sexes were slain ; divination being effected by their entrails, and their flesh eaten.

(Socr.. 1. 3., c. 13.)

50 Vid. infra, Lect. vii.

51 The whole of Egypt, says Diodorus, being divided into a number

of parts called nomes by the Greeks, each of these is governed by a
Nonarcha, to whom the care of its public concerns is entrusted. The

land being everywhere divided into three portions, thejirst is occupied

by the priesthood, who are held in the greatest respect by the inhabit-

ants, as being devoted to the worship of the gods ; and as possessing

^ the greatest power of understanding, from the superiority of their

education ;

and

from

the

revenues

of these

lands

they perform all

sacrifices throughout Egypt, and support the servants of the temples

as well as their own families ;

for they hold that the administration of

the honours of the gods ought not to be fluctuating, but to be con-

ducted

always by the

same

persons, and

in the same manner ;

and

that those who are above all their fellow citizens in wisdom and know-

ledge, ought not to be below any of them in the comforts and conve-

niences of life.

62 Cic. de Leg., 1. ii., c. 14.

3

IS

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

death

and

eternity

53
j

to

comprehend

all

the

hidden

mys-

teries

of

nature 54 ;

to

have

their

soul

restored

to

the

state of perfection from which it had fallen, and at their

death to be elevated to the supernal mansions of the

55
gods.

They were believed also to convey much tem-

poral felicity, and to afford absolute security amidst the
most imminent dangers by land or water.50 On the other

hand a public odium was studiously cast on those who

refused the rites.57 They were considered as profane

wretches, unworthy of public employment or private

58
confidence;

sometimes

proscribed

as

obdurate

59
atheists,

and finally condemned to everlasting punishment. And60

to heighten the impression, the despisers of the Mysteries

were considered marked men. They were exhibited in

the dramatic machinery of initiation as enduring the

pains of Tartarus a doom which was pronounced to be everlasting. These motives were strengthened by that

undefined principle of curiosity, which is always excited

by a system in which secrecy forms a prominent feature ; for the human mind, reaching forward to extended infor-

mation, seeks for it in those institutions where it is sup-

posed to be preserved; and the knowledge which is

enveloped in mystery is frequently courted with greater

eagerness than that which is open to public inspection.
We do not esteem the sciences or languages which we
know equally with others of which we are ignorant ; and those are always deemed the most abstruse, of which we possess the least degree of information. From the pre-
valence of this general feeling it was that such a high

degree of public curiosity attached to the Mysteries.

They professed to be a short and certain step to universal

knowledge, and to elevate the soul to absolute perfection ;

but the means were shrouded under the impenetrable veil

63 Isoc. Paneg.

5t Clem. Alex. Strom. 5.

55 Plat. Phasd. The evidences of this fact are numerous and weighty ;

and serve to prove that a future state of rewards and punishments

formed a prominent doctrine in the Mysteries.

56 Schol. in Aristoph. Iren., v. 275. Thus the Argonauts are fabled

to have been initiated at Samothrace, to procure an auspicious voyage.

(Apollon. Rhod. Argon.) The faith in such protection, however,

was suspended on the possession of amulets which were delivered to

the candidates at their initiation.

57 Warb. Div. Leg., vol. i., p. 140.

58 Plat. Phsed.

69 Lucian. Demon.

G0 Orig. cont. Cels., 1. viii.

INTRODUCTION.

19

of secrecy, sealed by oaths and penalties the most tre-

mendous

and

61
appalling."

This feeling was not a little

encouraged by the hieroglyphical characters with which

the walls, columns, and ceilings of the most sacred tem-

A ples were curiously decorated.

laudable thirst after

knowledge prompted the youth of all ranks to aspire to

the ambition of decyphering the meaning and illustration

of these obscure symbols, which were said to have been

communicated to the priests by revelation from the celes-

tial deities. Initiation was the only means of acquiring

this knowledge, and it is therefore no wonder that initia-

tion

was

so

much

in

62
request.

There was also another quality of the mind which

served to recommend the mysteries : that strange at-

tachment to the marvellous by which every grade of

human nature is swayed. To excite this sentiment in all

its sublimity of horror, the initiations were performed at

the dead of night (* <ncora> xm wxri.}

No severity of pro-

bation could deter the bold and determined aspirant from

encountering terrors and actual dangers which led to the

gratification of his curiosity ; and the shades of darkness

imparted vigour to the passion which looked forward to

a recompense of such an exalted nature.64

61 Sec Meurs. Elusin., c. 20, and many other authorities which will
satisfy the most sceptical, that the system was a kind or Inquisition, based on terror, and supported by superstition of the very worst
kind.

62 All persons were initiated into the Lesser, but few into the Greater

mysteries.

63 Eurip. Bacchant., Act. 2. Black, the emblem of night, was con eidered the proper colour to shadow the mysteries : (Strabo. Georg., 1. 17,) and hence the early idolatry of most nations was directed to a

black atone ; (Porph. apud. Euseb. praep. even., 1. iii., c. 3. Appollon Shod. Argon., 1. i., 1176,) and when this stone was in the form of a

Cube, it was emblematical of the altar of Noah. Even the detached

tribes of wandering Arabs venerated the black stone Kaabah, which

is described as being originally "whiter than snow and more brilliant than the sun." At the time of thotflood, say the Arabian writers, "it was taken up to heaven, or elsewhere, where God chose, and re-

stored to Abraham, by the angel Gabriel, when he built the temple."

(Alw

Azdli, cited by Darkness was

Wait, Orient. an emblem of

Ant, p.
death

;

41.)
and

death

was

a

prelude

to

resurrection. It will at once be seen, therefore, in what manner the

doctrine of the resurrection was inculcated and exemplified in these remarkable institutions.

20

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

But the potent spell which sealed the authority of the

hierophant was the horrid custom, resorted to in times

of pressing danger or calamity, of immolating human

65
victims,

the

selection

of whiqh

was

commonly

the

prerogative

of the

chief

66
hierophant.

It is difficult to

pronounce, with any degree of precision, what was the

origin of this revolting practice, although it might prob-

ably have arisen from an imperfect knowledge of the

prediction of the Messiah.67 Thus were the initiated

placed, by the sanction of supernatural apprehensions, at

the absolute disposal of the hierophant ; and the most

exalted rank was not exempt from an abject subserviency,

which was cemented by fearful oaths and heavy and

destructive

68
penalties.

Few, however, of the myriads

who sought admission into the lesser Mysteries, attained

to the higher and more perfect Degrees, for here were

imbedded the real secrets of the Institution.69 The most

careful selection and preparation were necessary to

determine who were fitted for these important disclo-

sures ;

and

for

this

purpose

they

were

subjected

to

a

lengthened probation of four

70
years

before

it

was

con-

sidered safe to admit them into the Sanctum Sanctorum,

to become depositaries of those truths, the disclosure of
which might endanger, not only the Institution, but also the authority of the civil magistrate. Hence to reveal the Mysteries was the highest crime a person could commit, and was usually punished by an ignominious

65 Diod. Sic., 1. v. Strabo, 1. i'v. Euseb. Orat. ad Const.

66 Sammes. Brit., vol. i.. p. 104.

67 Vid. Ces. bel. Gal., 1. vi, c. 16.

68 The inviolable oath of J"upiter, by Styx, was referred to in the

initiations, and is thought by Mr. Faber to bear a reference to the

oath

of

God,

at the

Deluge,

that

he

would

no

more

drown

the

world ;

"for which reason, Iris, the rainbow, the daughter of Thaumas, is

represented by Hesiod as hovering over the broad surface of the ocean,

when this oath of Jupiter was taken. Now that such a phenomenon

appeared immediately after the Deluge, we are expressly informed by

Moses; and it is observable, moreover, that it was made a special

sign of God's oath to Noah. Vid. Gen. ix., 13." Faber. Mys. Cab.,

vol.

i.,

p.

261 ;

and

see

Fab.

Pag.

Idol.,

vol.

i.,

p.

372,

with

authorities!

69 Clem. Alex. Strom. 5. And these were the Creation, Fall, and

promise

of

a

Mediator ;

the

unity

and

trinity

of

the

Godhead ;

the

Deluge ; redemption by a bloody sacrifice ; and the soul's existence in

,a future state.

70 Tertul. adv. Valentin.

INTRODUCTION.

21

death,71 embittered by denunciations of the hottest pains
of Tartarus in another world.72

The places of initiation were contrived with much art
and ingenuity, and the machinery with which they were fitted up was calculated to excite every passion and affection of the mind. Thus the hierophant could rouse
the feelings of horror and alarm; light up the fire of devotion, or excite terror and dismay; and when the soul
had attained its highest climax of apprehension, he was furnished with the means of soothing it to peace, by

phantasmagoric visions of flowery meads, purling streams,

and all the tranquil scenery of Nature in* its most en-

gaging form, accompanied with strains of heavenly music,

the figurative harmony of the spheres. These places

were

indifferently

a

73
pyramid,

a

pagoda,

or

a

74
labyrinth,

furnished with vaulted rooms, extensive wings connected

71 Clem. Alex. Strom. 2. Sam. Petit, in lege Attic., p. 33. Si quis

arcanae mysteria Cereris sacra vulgasset, lege morti addicebatur. 73 Virg. Mn.. 1. vi.

73 The pyramids were doubtless erected very soon after the disper-

sion, as copies of the great phallic tower on the plain of Shinar; and

We as the latter was designed for initiation, so were the former.

arc

told, by an acute observer, that the second pyramid has two elaborate

pieces of cavern architecture attached to the north and west sides,

thirty feet in depth, and fourteen hundred feet in length, hewn out of

the solid rock on which the pyramid rests; and hollowed into an

extensive range of apartments. The entrance is narrow, and the con-

struction of the cells intricate, all involved in darkness, and many of them closed up with an accumulation of dust and rubbish. They had

a communication with the interior of the pyramid, which cannot now

be discovered, as many of the cells are entirely choked up (Greaves.

Pyram., vol. ii., p. 34) ; and it may be added, that perhaps the only

entrance was from the caverns beneath, into which the egress from

the pyramid was by a shaft

or

well ;

for

we

know that

pits

or wells

were occasionally used in the mysteries (Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii.,

p. 187, Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 1061), and a well did actually exist

in the pyramid, the use of which is otherwise unknown. " At the

extremity

of one

of

the

" passages

says

Sir

R.

Wilson,

" is

a

well,

the

depth of which was never ascertained." (Vid. also Pococke's Descrip.

of the East, vol. i., p. 243.) Mr. Greaves thinks that these apartments were for the priest to lodge in ; but independently of the con-

sideration that such extensive excavations would never have been

made out of the hard rock with the chisel for mere dwellings, when

buildings on the surface would have been erected at one hundredth

part of the labour and expense, it is clear from the internal construc-

tion of these spacious caverns, that they were intended to contain the

apparatus of initiation into the mysteries and were exclusively de-

voted to this important purpose. 74 The labyrinths of Egypt, Crete, Lemnos, and Italy, were equally

22

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

by open and spacious galleries, multitudes of secret dun-

geons, subterranean passages, and vistas, terminating in

75
adyta.

which

were

adorned

with

mysterious

symbols

carved on the walls and pillars, in every one of which

was enfolded some philosophical or moral truth.76 Some-

times the place of initiation was constructed in a small

island in the centre of a lake 77 a hollow cavern natural j

or artificial, with sounding domes, tortuous passages,

narrow

orifices,

and

spacious

sacelli

78
;

and

of

such

magni-

tude

as

to

contain

a

numerous

assembly

of

79
persons.

In

all practicable instances they were constructed within

the recesses of a consecrated grove, which in the torrid

regions of the east conveyed the united advantages of

secrecy

and

shade ;

and

to inspire a still greater venera-

designed for initiation into the mysteries. (Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii.,
p. 269.)
75 Plut. de Isid. et Osir., p. 639.
76 In the Divine Legation of Moses, the learned Warburton has given some plates from the Bembine Table, which is an invaluable specimen of the secret symbols concentrating the leading principles of Egyptian politics, learning and religion.
77 One of the most sacred places which ancient Egypt could boast, was the small island of Phile in the Nile, near the cataracts. The whole island was dedicated to Osiris and Isis, and appropriated to their worship : and a superb temple was erected, which almost covered its entire surface, where the relics of Osiris were said to be preserved. "Throughout the whole of this famous island," says Mr. Maurice (Ind. Ant., vol. iii., p. 536), "where anciently the solemn and mysterious rites of Isis were celebrated with such distinguished pomp and splendour, there appeared to Mr. Norden to run subterranean passages. He attempted to descend several of the steps that led down into them, but was prevented, by the filth and rubbish with which they were filled, from penetrating to any depth. It was in these gloomy caverns that the grand and mystic arcana of this goddess were unfolded to the adoring aspirant, while the solemn hymns of initiation resounded through the long extent of these stony recesses. It was there that superstition at midnight waved high her flaming torch before the image of Isis borne in procession ; and there that her chosen priests, in holy ecstacy, chaunted their sweetest symphonies."
78 Plut. de Isid. et Osir., p. 639. 79 Strabo. Georg., 1. ix. In the particular mysteries of every nation,
these places will be described with some degree of minuteness ; suffice it to say here, that such complicated excavations are common in every part of the world, and were indubitably used as places of initiation. (Vid. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 254.) Even the stable, or rather the cave
at Bethlehem, in which Jesus Christ was born, if we may credit the testimony of the learned Calmet, was afterwards devoted by the Emperor Adrian, to the celebration of the mysteries of Thammuz or
Adonis. (Cal. Diet, in v. Bethlehem.)

INTRODUCTION.

23

tion, they were properly denominated Tombs, or places

of

80
sepulture.

Thus invested by superstition with tremendous powers, which assigned to them the province of executing the

will and pleasure of the infernal, as well as the celestial deities, these potent priests became possessed of absolute

authority, as the accredited agents of invisible beings,
and frequently beheld even monarchs crouching at their
feet, and submitting, without murmur or complaint, to

their arbitrary or wanton inflictions, against which,

indeed, there was no appeal. Thus despotic, it is scarcely

to be supposed that this proud hierarchy would exercise

its influence with moderation. They had the privilege

of

nominating

human

victims ;

but

as

the devoted offer-

ing might be redeemed by a heavy fine proportionate

with his wealth or rank, it is reasonable to believe that

the ransom would be paid, even though the unbounded

avarice of the priest might assess the penalty at a large
proportion of his temporal possessions. Thus they controlled senators and kept monarchs in awe : and as they

increased in riches, the inevitable result of the system,

they imbibed a corresponding love of magnificence and
luxury. The crimes and indecencies of their order were

soon transferred to the initiations; and, at length, this

haughty priesthood fell with greater rapidity than it had

risen ;

for

the

open

debaucheries

of

the

one,

and

the

unbounded licentiousness which pervaded the other,

excited public horror and aversion, against the effects of

which, their wealth and power were equally unavailable.

At this period of the degeneracy and degradation of the

Mysteries, the blaze of Christianity, like a glorious

PILLAR OF FIRE, penetrated into their darkest recesses;

the

demons

81
fled,

at

the

approach

of Truth,

and

the

80 Jul. Firm. de. error., p. 4. Diod. Bibl., p. 194. Hence the pyramids of Egypt were accounted to be Tombs. And justly ; for the rites of initiation there celebrated were funereal.
81 Strabo, 1. vi.. tells us, that in the times of Augustus Cesar, the Oracle ceased to give responses ; and to the same effect Suidas (in
voc. Delphi.) says, that after the birth of Christ, Augustus enquiring
of the Oracle whom he should appoint as his successor to the imperial diadem, was answered, that the God of gods was incarnate amongst
the Hebrews, and had commanded him to return to his place ; that he could not disobey, and therefore no responses would be given. (Vid. Antiq. of Masonry, p. 82.) And the Christian has no reason to doubt

24

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

institutions which they upheld, finally sank to rise no

more.

These united causes were the precursors of their

destruction ;

for

the reality having

appeared, the

types,

whether Jewish, or heathen, were no longer necessary.

In the year 364, says Zosimus,82 Valentinian published a

law forbidding nocturnal sacrifices, for the purpose of

preventing the indecencies which were perpetrated in

the Mysteries. But the pro-consul of Greece, Pretextatus,

thinking that the law would impel the people to despe-

ration, if they were prevented from performing the sacred

Mysteries, upon which, as they believed, the welfare of

mankind

solely

83
depended,

permitted

them

to

be

cele-

brated, provided everything was done decently and in

order. Subsequently, however, Theodosius sent Cyne-

gius into Egypt, with orders to close the temples and

places of initiation, who executed his commission to the letter. He shut up the temples, and prohibited the cele-

bration of the Mysteries all over the East, and even in

Alexandria itself; and finally abolished these institutions,

and every branch of the ancient and religious rites;

although

it

has

been

84
said,

and

probably

with

some

truth, that these rites were secretly performed in Greece

and Rome, for several centuries after the Advent of

85
Christ,

under

the

pretext

of

convivial

meetings.

Psellus

the accuracy of this account, from the numerous instances, in his own Scriptures, of infernal spirits being ejected at the command of Christ and his Apostles.

83 Zos., 1. 4, p. 735.
83 The pagans entertained such a very high opinion of the Mysteries, that one of their best writers attributes the dissolution of the Roman

polity to their suppression. He says (Zos., 1. 2. p. 671), "whilst,

therefore, the Mysteries were performed, according to the appointment
of the oracle, and as they really ought to be done, the Roman Empire
was safe, and they had, in a manner, the whole world in subjection to-
them. But the festivals having been neglected from the time that

Dioclesian abdicated, they have decayed and sunk into oblivion." 84 Gibbon, vol. v., p. 110. 85 The legend of initiation was subsequently interwoven into Chris-

tianity by a sect of heretics who flourished soon after the time of the

Apostles, called the Basilideans. The founders of this sect, in imita-

tion of Pythagoras, enjoined on the candidates for admission into his

school

a

five

years'

silence ;

and adopting

some

of the

astronomical

absurdities which he had learned in Egypt, engrafted them into his

system, which caused his followers to be anathematized by the

Church. Assuming Osiris to be the sun, Isis the moon, and Typhon

INTRODUCTION.

26

says, that in Athens they were practised till the eighth
century; and we are assured, on undoubted authority,
namely, from the Bardic writings of that period, that
they were celebrated in Wales and Scotland, down to
the twelfth century of Christianity.
Scorpio, he taught his disciples to frame crystals bearing these emblems, which were used as amulets or talismans to protect them from danger. Mr. Hutchinson, in an early edition of his ''Spirit of Masonry," has given an engraving of one of these gems, in which the above symbols bear a conspicuous figure ; and they are accompanied by a
brilliant star and the serpent. The moon is depicted in its increase as a crescent, because Isis is represented with horns, like a new moon. These were a transcript of the talismans of Persia and Arabia, which were delivered to every candidate at his initiation into the Mysteries. By the former they were termed azimet; by the latter, alakakir; and
subsequently abrac, abraxas, or abracadabra.

LECTURE II.

HISTORY OF INITIATION IN HINDOOSTAN.

INDIA

is

a

very ancient

nation ;

derived,

if

its

own

annals are deserving of credit, from the seven Eishis or

penitents, whose exemplary virtues elevated them to

a residence in the stars. These seven holy persons,

according to the Abbe Dubois, 1 were the seven sons of

2
Japhet,

who

formed

colonies

in

the neighbourhood of

Mount Caucasus, and from thence their posterity spread

over the vast continent of ancient India.3 And Mr.

Maurice is of opinion that they proceeded thence to the

remotest regions of the west. These primitive inhabit-

ants practised the patriarchal religion, and, consequently,

worshipped the true God, until they were conquered and

subjected to the yoke by the idolatrous Cuthites, under

Rama, the victorious son

of Cush 4 ;

and then the diluvian

Mysteries were introduced, with all the horrible rites

1 Description of India, pt. i., c. 6.
2 The Indian Records present us with this information, in language very similar to our own Sacred Writings. " It is related in the Padma-

Pooraun, that Satyavrata, whose miraculous preservation from a

general deluge is told at large in the Matsya, had three sons, the

eldest

of whom

was

named

Jyapeti,

or

Lord

of

the

Earth ;

the others

were Charina and Sharma; which last words are in the vulgar dialects

usually pronounced Cham and Sham, as we frequently hear Kishn for

Chrishna. The royal patriarch, for such is his character in the

Pooraun, was particularly fond of Jyapeti, to whom he gave all the

regions to the north of Himalaya, or the Snowy Mountains, which extend from sea to sea, and of which Caucasus is a part ; to Sharma
he allotted the countries to the south of those mountains but he ;
cursed Charma, because when the old monarch was accidentally inebriated with strong liquor made of fermented rice, Charma laughed ; and it was in consequence of his father's execration that he became a

slave to the slaves of his brothers." (Maur. Hist. Hind., vol. ii.. p. 45.) 3 It is highly probable, however, notwithstanding the authority in
the text, that the seven Rishis were the seven persons who were preserved with Noah in the Ark.

4 Gen. x., 7.

INITIATION IN HINDOOSTAN,

27

and disgusting superstitions which had polluted the

religion of the descendants of Ham. The system of

divine worship, after this innovation, soon became divided

into two discordant Sects ;

the one mild and benevolent,

addressed to Vishnu,5 the other, which proclaimed the

superiority of Siva, was a system of terror and penance,

barbarity and blood.6 The professors of these sectarial

divisions bore an irreconcilable hatred to each other, and

were equally distinguished by feelings of such intermin-
able hostility, that if an individual of each adverse party accidentally met, they considered themselves polluted, till by some purifying rite of devotion, they had obliterated the stain.7

The chief deity of this vast empire was the tri-une

Brahma

Vishnu

8
Siva,

who was

said

to

dwell on

the

holy mountain Meru, \vhose three peaks were composed
of gold, silver and iron; the central peak was appropriated to Siva, and the two others to Brahma and Vishnu.9 But the Indians "saw God in every object

5

" The

religion of the Vishnu

sect," according to

Maurice,

" is

of a

cheerful and social nature. Theirs is the festive song, the sprightly

dance, and the resounding cymbal ; "libations of milk and honey flow

upon

his

altars;

the

gaj-est garlands

decorate

his statues ;

aromatic

woods

eternally burn

before

him ;

and

the

richest

gems of the east

disperse fragrance through the temples of the Preserver." (Ind. Ant..

vol. v, p. 856.) 6 Speaking of a temple near Bereng, the Persian historian says, " in

the centre of the reservoir is an idol temple of stone a beautiful fabric. At this place, the devotees surround themselves with tire till they are

reduced to ashes, imagining they are. by this act, pleasing the deity."

(Ayeen Akbery, vol. ii., p. 158.)

7 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 863.

8 This triad was variously represented by emblems in this quarter

of the globe.

The

mystical zennar was

a cord of three threads ;

the

emblem borne in the hands of some of these deities, was a trident,

similar to that of the Grecian Neptune ; the mode of worship was

ternary,

and consisted

of

bowing the

body

three times ;

the principal

deity in the cavern of Elephanta was depicted with three heads ; the

summit of the massive pyramidal pagoda of Tanjoru is surmounted by

three peaks, &c., &c.
9 Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. in., p. 205. This custom of accounting the three peaked mountain holy, was not confined to the idolatrous nations, so called, but was venerated by the Jews. Thus Olivet, near
the city of Jerusalem, had three peaks, which were accounted the residence of the deit}', Chemosh Milcom Ashtoreth. (2 Kings
xxiii., 13.) See, also, Zachariah, (xiv., 4.) where, by a sublime figure, the feet of the Almighty are placed on the two outer peaks of this

mountain,

during the

threatened

destruction

of Jerusalem }

while

the

28

HISTORY OF INITIATION

under the sun," and had consecrated and paid divine

honours to such a multitude of different substances, that

their Pantheon is said to have contained three hundred

and thirty millions of deities. 10

The mysteries of India formed one of the earliest corruptions of the pure science which is now denominated

Freemasonry, and bore a direct reference to the happi-

ness of man in paradise, the subsequent deviations from

righteousness, and the destruction accomplished by the

general Deluge. They were celebrated in subterranean

caverns

and

11
grottoes,

formed

in the

solid rock by human

art and industry; or in the secret recesses of gloomy

and

dark

12
pagodas ;

and

the adoration of the

EyorlaarmiFidrse,13 and the reputed perfection which its worship

conveys, appear to have been the object and the end of

the initiated. These caverns were frequently excavated in

the bosom of a grove of trees, which was thus converted

into

a permanent residence

of the

14
deity ;

and became a

source of high and superstitious terror to all the world

A besides.

brief description of the caverns of Elephanta

and Salsette, both situated near Bombay, will aiford a

competent specimen of the* inner apartments exhibited in the places of secret celebration, which abound in the

vast continent of ancient India. These stupendous edi-

fices, carved out of the solid rock, and charged with

statues of every description and degree of magnitude,

mountain itself is made to split asunder, by a tremendous concussion,

at the centre peak, from east to west, leaving a great valley between

the divided parts. Tatian (Orat. contra. Grcecos.) says that it was
Hiram's daughter, whom Solomon married, who seduced him to the

worship of this unholy triad on the above mountain.

10 Statues of the principal Indian Gods may be seen in the Museum

of the Asiatic Society, London.

11 Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 184, 254.

13 Fab. Cab., vol. ii., p. 386.

13 The earliest religious dance with which we are acquainted, was in honour of the Solar Fire. It was a wild and frantic movement,

accompanied with the clashing of swords and shields, and called

Betarmus ;

symbolical,

according

to

Bryant,

of

the

confusion which

occurred when the Noetic family quitted the ark. But in process of

time, when the Sabian worship was engrafted upon the rites of the

ark, its influence extended also to the sacred commemorative dance.

* The solemnity of an extensive wood, or grove of ancient trees, appears to have suggested to all nations the probability that it was the sacred abode of the divinity. And in the Heetopades, p. 243, it is represented as a place of penance and mortification.

IN HINDOOSTAN.

29

are

of

doubtful

15
origin.

Their antiquity is infolded in

the veil of obscurity; and the name of the monarch,

whose bold and aspiring mind could project, and whose

power could execute such imperishable monuments of

human ingenuity and labour, is lost and forgotten in the

lethean stream of time.16

The cavern of Elephanta, the most ancient temple in

the world, framed by the hand of man,17 is one hundred

and thirty-five

feet

18
square,

and

eighteen

feet

high.

It

is supported by four massive pillars, and its walls are

covered on all sides with statues and carved emblematical

decorations.19 Maurice20 says "that some of the figures

have on their heads a kind of helmet of a pyramidal

form ;

others wear crowns, rich with devices, and splen-

didly decorated with jewels; while others display only

large bushy ringlets of curled or flowing hair. Many

of them have four hands, many have six, and in those

hands they grasp sceptres and shields, the symbols of* justice and ensigns of religion, the weapons of war and
the trophies of peace." The adytum, placed at the western extremity of this extensive grotto, was accessible by four entrances, each guarded by two gigantic statues,

15 Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 361.
5 They may probably be ascribed to the first Cuthite conquerors

of India, whose enterprising genius would be applied, in times of

peace, to such stupendous works as might practically exhibit a striking

indication of their superiority over the vanquished people.
17 Maur. Ind. Ant, vol. iv., p. 736. 18 Goldingham, in Asiat. Res., vol. iv., p. 407. 19 All the temples and pagodas of Ilindoostan were ornamented in the same style. The temple of Jagan-nath " is a stupendous fabric,

and truly commensurate with the extensive sway of Moloch, horrid king. As other temples are usually adorned with figures emblematical

of their religion, so Jagan-nath has representations, numerous and

various, of that vice which constitutes the essence of his worship. The walls and gates are covered with indecent emblems, in massive

and durable sculpture." (Buchan. Res. in Asia, p. 133.)

Ind, Ant., vol. ii., p. 245. ' Some of these figures have aspects

that

inspire

the

beholder

with

terror ;

and,

in

the

words

of

Lins-

choten, are distorted into such horrible and fearful forms, that they make a man's hair stand upright ; others are distinguished by a placid serenity and benignity of countenance, and others betray evident marks of deep dejection and inward anguish. The more conspicuous

figures are all gorgeously arrayed, after the Indian fashion, with

heavy jewels in their ears, with superb collars of precious stones, with

belts sumptuously wrought, and with rich bracelets on their arms and

wrists." (Ibid.)

30

HISTORY OP INITIATION

naked, and decorated with jewels and other ornaments.

In this sacellum, accessible only to the initiated, the

deity was represented by that obscene emblem, which

was used in a greater or less degree by all idolatrous

nations,

to

represent

his

generative

21
power.

On each

side were ranges of cells and passages, constructed for

the express

purpose

of

initiation 22 ;

and a sacred orifice,

as

the

medium

of

23
regeneration.

The caverns of Salsette, excavated in a rock whose

external form is pyramidal, and situated in the bosom of

an extensive and fearful wood, infested by enormous ser-

pents

and

ravenous

24
beasts,

very

greatly

exceed,

in

magnitude, those of Elephanta; being in number three

hundred, all adorned with an abundance of carved and

emblematical characters.25 The largest cavern is eighty-

four feet long, forty-six broad, and forty high ; full of

cavities on all sides, placed at convenient distances, for

the arrangement of the dreadful apparatus of initiation,

which was so constructed as to overwhelm the uncon-

scious aspirant with horror and superstitious dread. The different ranges of apartments were connected by open galleries; and the most secret caverns, which contained
the ineffable symbols, were accessible only by private
entrances, curiously contrived, to give greater effect to
certain points in the ceremonial of initiation; and a
cubical cista, for the periodical sepulture of the aspirant,
was placed in the inmost recesses of the structure. In every cavern was a carved basin, to contain the conse-
crated water of ablution, on the surface of which floated

the flowers of the lotus, this element being considered

the external medium by which purity was conveyed

And amongst an innumerable multitude of images and

symbolical figures with which the walls were covered,

the

26
Linga,

or

27
Phallus,

was

everywhere

conspicuous;

often alone, and sometimes in situations too disgusting to

21 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. ii.. p. 332. 22 Archaeol., vol. vii., p. 287. 3 Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. in., p. 185. This orifice is used at the present
day, for the same mysterious purpose. 4 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. ii., p. 273. Archaeol. Ant., vol. vii., p. 333. 25 Vid. Signs and Symbols, Lect. 9.
A !S Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. ii., p. 156.
27 specimen of this obscene emblem is preserved in the Museum
of the Asiatic Society, London.

IN HINDOOSTAN.

31

be

mentioned

23
j

and

typified

equally

by

the

petal

and

calyx

of the

lotos,

the

point

within

a

29
circle,

and

the

intersec-

tion of two equilateral triangles.

The periods of initiation were regulated by the increase

and decrease of the moon;30 and the mysteries were

divided into Four Steps, or Degrees, called Char Asherum,

which were equally the dispensers of perfection in a

greater

or

less

31
degree.

The candidate might perform

his first

probation

at

the

early

age

of

eight

32
years.

It

consisted of an investiture with the Zennar, or sacred

cord of three threads, which was explained to refer to

the three elements, earth, fire, and air; for water,

according to the Brahmins, is only air in a condensed form.33 This investiture was attended with numerous

ceremonies; with sacrifices to the Solar fire, to the
planets, and to the household gods ; with aqueous ablutions, and purifications with the dung and urine of the cow,34 and ended with an extended lecture from his pre-
ceptor, usually too abstruse for his juvenile comprehension; the principal subject of which related to the unity

28 " The tower of Jaggernaut," says Dr. Buchanan, (Res. in Asia,

p.

145,)

" is

covered

with

indecent emblems,

which

are

newly

painted

when it is exhibited in public, and are objects of sensual gaze by both

sexes.

29 Vide Signs and Symbols, Lect 9.

30 I do not find what particular stage was the most auspicious for

this purpose,

except

it was

the ninth day of the

decrease ;

at which

time began the great festival in honour of the goddess Durga, who

was the same as Juno, or, perhaps, the Minerva of the Greeks. The

rites of this goddess bore a great similarity to those of Egypt and

other nations. After various ceremonies, the image of the goddess

was committed to the Ganges, and her mystical death was celebrated

with lamentations ; while the utmost joy prevailed when the idol

A emerged from the purifying stream.

great annual festival was held

in January, on the seventh day of the New Moon, which was cele-

brated in honour of the Sun. (Holwell. Gent. Fast., p. 134.)

5)1

" Let

even

the

wretched

man," says

the

Hitopadesa,

" practise

virtue, whenever he enjoys one of the three or four religious Degrees ; let him be even-minded with all created things, and that disposition
will be the source of virtue." (Hitop., b. iv.)
32 Ordin. of Menu. Sir W. Jones' Works, vol. iii.. p. 88. In Greece,
chi*ldM"reaTnuhrwe.eyrIeun,'sde.incAonlitwk.de,umvnaogln.nienvr.,p,upri.infi9it6ci6aa.ttieodn,inbteoctahueseLeistsiesrthMyesmteerdiieus.m by which the barren soil is rendered prolific ; and, therefore, reminds them of the famous Indian doctrine of corruption and reproduction."
(Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 935.) The cow was a sacred animal.

32

HISTORY OF INITIATION

and trinity of the godhead; the management of the

consecrated fire, and the holy rites of morning, noon,

and

35
evening.

He was then clothed in a linen garment

without seam 36 j

a

cord was

put

over

his

right ear as

a

medium of purification, and he was placed under the

exclusive care of a Brahmin, who was thence termed his

spiritual guide, to be instructed in the necessary qualifi-
cations for the Second Degree. He was inured to hard-

ships,

suffered the

infliction

of

rigid

37
penances

until

he

attained the age of twenty years ; was restricted from

all indulgences, whether carnal or intellectual, and

passed the whole of his time in prayer and ablution.38

He was taught to preserve the purity of his body, which

was figuratively termed the city with nine gates, in

which

the

soul

is

39
imprisoned,

by

avoiding

external

defilements;

to

eat

40
becomingly;

and was

instructed in

all those minuter ceremonies which were adapted to

every act of his future life, and by the use of which he

was to be distinguished from the uninitiated. Much of

his time was devoted to the study of the sacred books;

for a competent knowledge of the institutions, ceremonies, and traditions of religion, were an essential
qualification for another Degree.
When he had attained the specified age, if he were
found, on examination, to have made due progress in the mythological lore of the First Degree, he was admitted
to enter on the probationary ceremonies for the Second, which was called Gerishth.41 Here his austerities were

doubled ;

he was

obliged

to

support

life

by

soliciting

charity ; his days were passed in prayer, ablutions and

sacrifice, and his nights in the study of Astronomy ; and

when exhausted nature demanded repose, he stretched

his

body

under

the

first

42
tree,

snatched

a

short

sleep,

and

33

Ordin.

of Menu. .

Sir.

TV.

Jones.

"Works, vol. iii., p. 92.

36 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 969.

37 These penances were indeed rigid, if Mr. Maurice be correct in

his information, for he says, (Ind. Ant., vol. iv., p, 574, in nota,) that

the candidates were plunged in alternate baths of fire and water !

38 Ayeen Akbery. Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. ii., p. 346.

Bhagvat Geeta, p. 48. The nine gates are the avenues of

A evacuation, as the nose, mouth, ears, &c.

10
41 42

phrase meaning, literally, a total Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 972.

abstinence

from

animal

food

Ayeen Akbery. vol. iii., p. 219.

IN HINDOOSTAN.

33

rose

speedily

to

contemplate the

monsters

of

the

43
skies,

personified in his imagination by the appearance and situa-

tion of the fixed stars.44 "In the hot season he sat

exposed to five fires, four blazing around him, with the

Sun

above ;

in the rains he stood uncovered, without even

a mantle, when the clouds poured the heaviest showers ;

in the cold season he wore wet clothing, and went on

increasing by degrees the austerity of his devotion."45

His probation being at length completed, he was admit-

ted by initiation to participate in the privileges which

the mysteries were believed to confer.

Sanctified

by

the

sign

of

a

46
Cross,

which

was

marked

on every part of his body, he was subjected to the proba-

tion of Pastos,47 which was denominated the door of

Patala, or hell.48 His purification being completed, he

was led at the dead of night to the gloomy cave of mys-

tery, which had been duly prepared for his reception.

The interior of this holy cavern blazed with a light

equal to that of the meridian sun, proceeding from

myriads

of

brilliant

49
lamps.

There sat in rich and

costly

robes 50

the

three

chief

51
hierophants,

in the East,

West and South, to represent the great Indian triad,

Brahma Vishnu Siva.52 The attendant Mystagogues,

43 The singular arrangement of the Fixed Stars into Constellations

by the ancient Indians, was of a nature calculated to encourage the

indulgence of this feeling.

44 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. vi.. p. 974.
45 Ordin. of Menu. Sir W. Jones. Works, p. 228.

4(5 The Christian reader may start when he beholds the sacred

emblem of his faith used as a symbol of heathen devotion ; but it is

even so. The holy Cross pointed to the four quarters of the com-

pass ; and was honoured as a striking emblem of the universe, by

many ancient nations. It is found engraven on their monuments ; and

even the erection of many of their temples was conducted on the same

cruciform principles. The two great pagodas of Benares and Mathu-

ra are erected in the form of vast crosses, of which each wing is

equal in extent, (Maur. Ind. Ant., vol iii., p. 3GO, 377,) as is also the

pyramidal temple of New Grange, in Ireland (Ledwich. Ant. Irel., p

A 316.) and many others.

specimen of the Crux Ansata may be seen

in Pococke's elaborate description of the East.

47
Signs

and

Symbols,

Lect.

6.

** The Tartarus of the Grecian mysteries.

49 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v.. p. 898.

60 Ibid. vol. ii., p. 357.

Plate 69, fig. 19.

51 Signs and Symbols, Lect., 7.

53 When

the

Sun rises in the east, he is

Brahma ;

when he gains his

meridian in the south, he

is

Siva ,

and when he sets in the west, he is

4

34

HISOTRY OF INITIATION

clad in sacred vestments, having their heads covered each
with a pyramidical cap, emblematical of the spiral flame, or the solar ray, were seated respectfully around. Thus disposed in solemn guise, the well-known signal from the
sacred bell53 summoned the aspirant into the centre of this august assembly; and the initiation commenced with an anthem to the great God of nature, whether as the Creator, Preserver, or Destroyer. The sacred busi-
ness was then solemnly opened, with the following
apostrophe to the Sun : " O mighty being, greater than
Brahma, we bow down before thee as the prime Creator! Eternal god of gods ! The world's mansion ! Thou art
the incorruptible being, distinct from all things transient !
Thou art before all gods, the ancient Pooroosh,54 and the supreme supporter of the universe ! Thou art the
supreme mansion! And by thee, O infinite form, the
universe was spread abroad."55 The aspirant, already weakened by abstinence and
mortification, was overawed by the display now exhibit-
ed before him; but, resuming his courage during this
apostrophe, he prepared himself for the active business
of initiation, in some doubt as to what results this unex-
pected scene would lead. His reflections were interrupted by a voice, which called upon him to make a formal declaration, that he will be tractable and obedient to his
superiors; that he will keep his body pure, have a
tongue of good report, observe a passive obedience in receiving the doctrines and traditions of the Order, and
the firmest secrecy in maintaining inviolable its hidden and abstruse mysteries. This declaration having been

Vishnu. (Asiat. Res., vol. v., p. 254. Moor. Hind. Panth., p. 277.)
Sir W. Jones thinks that Siva, like the Sabazius or Bacchus of the
Greeks, was a corruption of Jehovah Sabaoth. (See also Cic. de nat.

w deor., 1. iii., c. llamayuna

23.) of Valraic.

Saib Ibn Batric pretends that Noah had a

bell in the Ark, made of the wood of the Indian plane. (Wait.

Orient. Ant., p. 82.) The bells used in the Jewish ministrations,

were imitated in the spurious Freemasonry, where they were profusely

introduced ;

and as they were

attached

to the priestly vestments, so

we*rePotohreyoowsohrnlitbeyraltlhyemBeaacncshannotemsoirnethtehaDniomnyasnia;cablutceilnebtrhaetioGnese.ta

it is a term in theology used to express the vital soul, or portion of

the universal spirit of Brahm, inhabiting a body. Notes on the Geeta, p. 142.)'
63 Bhagvat Geeta. p. 94.

(Vide Wilkins,

IN HINDOOSTAN.

35

assented to, he was

sprinkled

with

water ;

a mantra

or

incantation was pronounced over him, or more frequently

whispered

in

his

right

56
ear;

he was

divested

of his

57
shoes,

that

the

consecrated

ground

on which

he

stood

might not be polluted, and was made to circumambulate

the spacious cavern three times, in reference to the Tri-

murti, whose representatives were stationed triangularly

in the east, west, and south points of the circumference of

the mystical circle. While performing this ceremony,

he was taught to exclaim, on his arrival each time in the south, " I copy the example of the Sun, and follow his

benevolent course." This being completed, he was again

placed in the centre, and solemnly enjoined to the prac-

tice of religious austerities, as the efficient means of

preparing his soul for ultimate absorption; and was told

50 The mantra is merely an invocation of the deity. According to

Mr. Ward, in his "View of the Hindoos," the initiary incantation was

this : Haree, Haree, Haree, Rama, Haree, Rama, Rama, Rama, Haree, &c. j" which is merely a repetition of the two names of the deity,;

( Vid. Bhagvat Geeta, p. 156,) and they believe that this repetition has

abundance

of merit ;

and that,

like fire, these names will consume and

destroy their most inveterate sins. How contrary to the simple com-

mand of the true God, " Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord

thy God in vain !" The Hindoos are further persuaded, that by medi-

tating on the perfections of the deity, and pronouncing those meritorious names, they are enabled to penetrate into futurity, and to obtain

every wish of their hearts.
57 This was the common practice of antiquity. " Moses at the Bush,

and at the Mount, was enjoined to take the shoes from off his feet,

because the place on which he stood was holy ground. Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus assure us, that when the Egyptian priests

adored any of their deities, their ieet were uncovered. According to Strabo, such was the practice with the sacerdotal Order among the

Germans ;

and such was the case in the worship

of Diana and Vesta,

which the fathers assert to have been borrowed from Moses. Silius

Italicus (Bel. Pun., 1. iii.,) says of the priests of Hercules,

Nee discolor ulli

Ante aras cultus ;

velantur corpora lino,

Et Pelusiaco praefulget stamine vertex,

Distinctis mos thura dare, atque, a lege parentum,

Sacrificam, lato vestcm distinguere clavo.

Pes nudus, tonsceque comce, costumque cubile,

Inrestricta focis servant altaria flammae.

In 2 Chron. xxviii., 15, the captives taken by the children of Israel

from the cities of Judah and Jerusalem are depicted as barefooted,

previously to

the

harangue

of

Oded ;

and

Isaiah

walked

barefooted,

to typify the captivity in Babylon. Several gentile philosophers

affected to do the same to enforce reverence from their disciples."

(Wait,

on

Jewish,

&c. 5

Antiquities, p.

69.)

36

HISTORY OF INITIATION

that the merit of such works, will emit a splendour

which renders man not only superior to the gods, but
makes those immortal beings subservient to his wishes.58 After this admonition, the aspirant was placed under
the care of his gooroo or spiritual guide, and directed to observe a profound silence during the whole of the suc-
ceeding ceremonies, under the denunciation of summary punishment from the presiding Brahmin, who, he was told, possessed unlimited power, even to strike him dead on the spot with a malediction, should he presume to violate the injunction now imposed upon him. Thus
instructed, the subdued candidate endeavoured to pre-

serve the utmost equanimity of temper during the process

of initiation ; fearing, lest Joy any involuntary expression which might imply cowardice or disapprobation, he

should elicit the dreaded resentment of this potent
avenger ; for the gooroo was usually possessed of much
discrimination, and was always prepared to punish the
indiscreet disciple who should fail in any point, either of

deference or respect; or betrayed any symptoms of dread

or irresolution.

The

bewailings

for

the

loss

of

Sita

then

59
began.

The

aspirant was passed through seven60 ranges of dark61 and

68 It is no uncommon thing to read in the Puranas, and other

writings, of a religious ascetic, who has attained the high distinction

of Brahma's blessing, by the performance of the prescribed observ-

ances, tyranizing over the whole host of deities, and commanding them

to perform the most menial services to gratify his curiosity, or to

amuse his imagination. These austerities do not necessarily include

the practice of morality; for the Hindoos hold that though they live

in the habitual commission of every known sin throughout the whole

period of their lives, yet if they are able to repeat the name of a god

with their dying lips, it is a certain passport to heaven. Mr. Ward,

"A (View of the Hindoos, b. i., c. 2, 11,) says,

Hindoo shopkeeper

one day declared to the author, that he should live in the practice of

adultery,

lying,

&c.,

till

death and that ;

then repeating

the

name

Krishnu, he should without difficulty ascend to heaven!" How near-

ly allied is this to the creed of some Christian sects.

59 In some of these celebrations, the death of Cama was lamented with solemn dirges and bewailings. This god, who was the Cupid of

Hindoostan, is said to have been slain by Iswara, and committed to

the waves inclosed in a chest, like the Grecian Bacchus, and the

Egyptian Osiris. The chest was swallowed by a fish, which being

caught, the infant was taken from its entrails, and nurtured by Reti,

fee. (Asiat. Res., vol. iii., p. 187.)
60 Niebuhr. Voy. in Arab., torn, ii., p. 28.
61 Maur. Ind. Ant, vol. v., p. 274.

IN HTNDOOSTAN.

37

caverns, amidst the din of howling, shrieks, and

flisomoamly lamentations, to represent the bewailings of
Mahadeva, who is fabled to have circumambulated the

.vorld seven times, with the remains of his murdered con-

sort on his shoulders.62 Amidst all this confusion a sud-

den explosion was heard, which seemed to rend the
mountains whose gloomy recesses they were now explor-
ing, and this was instantaneously followed by a dead
silence. Flashes of brilliant light streamed before their eyes, which were succeeded by the blackest darkness.
To his utter astonishment, the candidate now beheld

shadows and phantoms of various and compound shapes,

surrounded

with

rays

of

light

flitting

across

the

63
gloom.

Some with many hands, arms, and legs ; others without

any of those appendages ; here a shapeless trunk, there
a human body with the head of a bird, beast or fish ; now a human trunk with bestial extremities, succeeded

by the body of an animal with the head of a man.64

Some with "fiery eyes, yellow bodies, red faces, long

ears, armed with tridents and axes in their right hands,

and holding human skulls and vases in their leffc. Others

having three eyes and strings of human skulls suspended

round their necks, with long, straggling, frightful teeth."65
Amongst these he saw one terrible figure, who had " a

gorgeous appearance, with a thousand heads, and on each

of them a crown set with resplendent gems, one of

which was larger and brighter than the rest; his eyes

gleamed like flaming torches, but his neck, his tongues,

and

his

body were

black ;

the

skirts of his habiliments

were yellow, and a sparkling jewel hung in every one

of his ears ; his arms were extended, and adorned with

02 Another account states, that when Mahadeva received the curse of
some devotees, whom he had disturbed at their devotions, he was
deprived of his Lingam, which in the end proved fatal to his life. His consort wandered over the earth, and filled the world with her bewailings. Mahadeva was at length restored, under the form of Iswara, and united once more to his beloved Sita.
63 Vid. the Wisdom of Solomon, (c. xvii.,) in the Apocrypha of our Bible, where this part of the ceremony of initiation is minutely
described.
64 These were the initiated, disguised for the purpose, and passing in processional review before him. In these processions the Stolistes were distinguished by a Square ; and their duty was to take care that the sacred symbols were not improperly exposed.
65 Calica. Purana. Asiat. Res., vol. v., p. 390.

38

HISTORY OF INITIATION

rich bracelets, and his hands bore the holy shell, the

radiated weapon, the mace of war, and the lotos." This was no other than Mahadeva himself, in his char-

acter of the Destroyer. These appearances were intend-

ed to typify the first generation of the gods; for it was

figured that while the body of Sita was carried by the

soiTowing Mahadeva, it burst and the gods contained in

her capacious womb 67 were scattered over the face of

the

earth ;

and the places where

each of them

fell were

accounted sacred.68

The candidate was then made to personify the god

Vishnu, and to perform his numerous Avaters ; which,

if my conjecture be correct, would produce the follow-

ing ceremonies. He was plunged into the waters to

A represent the fish-god, who descended to the bottom of

the ocean to recover the stolen Vedas.69

heavy bur-

den was placed on his back, and he was said to resemble
a Tortoise supporting the earth.70 He was instructed to

W. 06 Sir

Jones, on the gods

67
Bhagvat

Geeta,

p.

90.

of Greece. Asiat. Res., vol.
w Vid. Asiat. Res., vol. vi.,

i.,
p.

p. 249. 477.

69 This was called the Matse Avater, and contains an account of the

general Deluge. Brahma having fallen asleep, the demon Hayagriva

stole the Vedas, and, swallowing them, retired to a secret place at the

bottom of the sea. The sacred Books being lost, mankind soon fell

into vice and wickedness, and becoming universally corrupt, the world
was destroyed by a flood of waters, except a pious monarch, with his family of seven persons, who were preserved in a vessel constructed
under the direction of Vishnu. When the waters had attained their

greatest elevation this god plunged into the ocean, attacked and slew
the giant Hayagriva who was the cause of this great calamity, and

recovered three of the books from the monster's belly, the fourth
having been digested. Then emerging from the waves, half man, half fish, he presented the Vedas to Brahma ; and the earth resuming its former state was repeopled by the eight persons who had been

miraculously preserved. (Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. ii., p. 353.) 70 This Avater was also a figurative account of the Deluge. Satya-
vrata, a king of India, was instructed by a fish that in seven days the world would be inundated, but that a ship should be sent in which himself and his seven holy companions might be preserved. These persons accordingly entered the vessel, and the waters prevailed so

extensively as to produce the entire destruction of all created matter.
The Soors then held a consultation on the summit of mount Meru to

discover the Amreeta, or water of immortality, allusive to the reani-

rnation of nature ;

and learned that it could

be produced

only by the

violent revolution of the mountain Mandar, which the Dewtahs found

themselves unable to move. In despair they solicited the aid of

Brahma and Vishnu : who instructing them how to proceed, the ser-

pent Vasookee wound the folds of his enormous body round the

IN HINDOOSTAN.

39

descend into a lower cavern on all fours, through a pas-

sage scarcely large enough to admit his body. Here he

was received by an antagonist who offered him battle.
A mimic conflict ensued, in which the aspirant was vic-

torious.71 While elated with this conquest, he was again

attacked by a gigantic monster, whom, as the repre-
sentative of Vishnu, he subdued.72 He was then taught

to take three steps at right angles, which referred to the

fifth

73
manifestation;

and the remaining Avaters74 in-

mountain like a cable, and Vishnu becoming incarnate in the form of

a Tortoise, took the mountain on his back. Thus loosened from its

foundation, Indra began to whirl the mountain about with incessant

motion, with the assistance of the Assoors, who were employed at the

serpent's head, and the Soors, who were engaged at his tail. Soon

the violence of the motion produced a stream of smoke, fire, and wind,

which ascending in thick clouds replete with lightning, it began to

rain furiously, while the roaring of the ocean was tremendous. The

various productions of the waters were torn to pieces ; the fruits of

the earth were annihilated, and a raging fire spread destruction all

around. At length a stream of the concocted juice of the dissolved

matter ran down the mountain, mixed with molten gold, from whence

the Soors obtained the water of immortality, or, in other words, the

restoration of Nature from the power of the triumphant waters.

(Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. ii., p. 343.) Then the Soors and Assoors com-

menced a dreadful battle for the possession of this glorious water,

which at length decided in favour of the Soors, and their opponents

fled ;

some rushing

headlong into the ocean, and

others hiding them-

selves in the bowels of the earth. The mountain Mandar was then

carefully replaced in its former station, and the waters retired to their
primitive caverns and recesses. (Bhagvat Geeta, p. 150.) 71 This was done to commemorate the third manifestation of Vish-

nu ;

who, in

the shape of a Boar, penetrated through the earth, by

means of his snout, in search of the monster Hiranyakshana, who had

taken refuge in the lowest of the seven inferior worlds. The god

found him out and slew him.

72
Vishnu,

in

the

form

of

an

animal

compounded

of a

man

and

a

lion,

attacked the brother of the former giant, who had received an assur-

ance from Brahma, that no being of any known form should have

power to hurt him. To evince his contempt of the divinity, therefore,

the giant dared him to come forth from a marble pillar. The column

immediately burst with a violent concussion, and Vishnu issuing forth

in flaming fire, tore the giant in pieces, drank his blood, and decorated

himself with his entrails as a trophy of victory.

73 As a diminutive Brahmin, Vishnu demanded of the impious

tyrant Bali, who was a huge giant, as much ground for sacrifice as

would suffice to place three feet upon. The tyrant granted his demand ;

and Vishnu resuming his own form, with one foot covered the earth,

with the other he filled all the space between earth and heaven, and

with a third, which unexpectedly started from his belly he crushed

the monster's head, and hurled him down to the infernal regions.

74 In the sixth manifestation, Vishnu, in the human form, encounter-

40

HISTORY OF INITIATION

volved him in a series of furious conflicts from which he

seldom

escaped without wounds

and

bruises ;

for

to

make him equal with the gods, it was necessary that he

underwent the same trials, and exposed himself to simi-

lar dangers.

Having reached the extremity of the seven75 mystic

76
caverns,

a

cheerful

peal of bells was

heard

to

77
ring;

which he was instructed to believe would expel from

these dark caves the evil demons who might be inclined

to disturb the sacred ceremonies in which they were

78
engaged.

Before the candidate wT as enlightened and

ed and destroyed whole hosts of giants and tyrants. The seventh Avater forms of itself a complete and voluminous Romance, of which Vishnu is the hero, under the name of Rama, who is represented as a valiant and successful warrior. With the assistance of a vast army, composed of an incredible number of monkeys or satyrs, led on in bat-
tle array, he accomplished so many wonderful adventures, that their
recital actually fills several volumes. In the eighth Avater, he slew a
host of giants, armed only with an enormous serpent ; and in the
ninth he transformed himself into a tree, for the purpose of gratifying a criminal passion with a king's daughter. The Hindoos still expect
a tenth Avater, with the same impatience which the Jews manifest for
their Messiah. Sir W. Jones informs us, that this Avater "is expect-
ed to appear mounted (like the crowned conqueror in the Apocalypse,)
on a white horse, with a cimeter blazing like a comet, to mow down
all incorrigible and impenitent offenders who shall then be on the earth."

(Asiat. Res., vol. i., p. 236.)

75 Vid. Signs and Symbols, Lect. 8.

76 These seven caverns bore an allusion to the metempsychosis, as

well as to the seven places of reward and punishment which different

nations have received into their creed. And it may perhaps be assert-

ed without profanation, that the Christian system gives a sanction to the same hypothesis. If an inspired Apostle speaks of a third heaven :

(2 Cor. xii., 2,) of the righteous differing from each other in glory, as

one star differs from another ;

(1 Cor. xv., 41,) if the

plural

number

be commonly used by Christ and his apostles, when speaking of the

place

of

supreme

bliss j

(Mark

i.,

10.

Acts vii., 56.

Eph. iv., 10.

Heb. i., 10.

.2

Pet. iii.,

5, &c.,) and if the

Saviour himself should

acknowledge
then we may

that heaven also conclude

contains many mansions ; (John that as there are many heavens, so

xiv.,
there

2,) are

also degrees of reward proportioned to the measure of man's faith and

obedience.

77 From
over the

time immemorial, bells eastern world. (Wait.

were employed in religious rites all Orient. Ant., p. 83. See also the

Rumayuna of Valmic.) In India no religious ceremony was esteemed efficacious if unaccompanied by this indispensable appendage

(Maur. Ind. Ant, vol. v., p. 900.) 78 These wicked and mischievous beings were said to be struck with

horror at the sound of a bell; and even the undulations of the air

produced by it were so detestable to them, that they would flee witii

IN HINDOOSTAN.

41

introduced into the presence of the holy Altar, he was told that " whatever is performed without faith, whether
it be sacrifices, deeds of charity, or mortifications of the flesh, is not for this world or that which is above;" 79
and was strictly admonished against the commission of
five crimes, which were prohibited under heavy penalties
in this life, and punished with eternal vengeance in the
next. And these particulars form a part of the Oath under which he was now solemnly bound ; and he seals
it by a sacred ablution. 80
The awful moment was now arrived when the cere-

mony of initiation had attained its highest degree of interest; the pealing Conch was blown,81 the folding
doors were suddenly thrown open, and the candidate was introduced into Cailasa or Paradise, 82 which was a

spacious apartment blazing with a thousand brilliant

83
lights;

ornamented with statues

and

emblematical

figures, scented with the rich fragrance of odorous flowers,

aromatic

gums,

and

84
costly drugs ;

decorated profusely

with

gems

and

85
jewels;

the unsubstantial

figures

of

the

airy inhabitants of unknown worlds carved on the roof,

in the act of volitation; and the splendid sacellum

precipitation from the hated spot, and take refuge in deep caves and

inaccessible recesses, to avoid a sensation at which their nature

W. revolted. (Sacontala. Translated by Sir

Jones. Works, vol. vi.)

The Christians of this country, before the Eeformation, were addict-

to the same superstition.

79 Bhagvat Geeta, p. 123.

80 The terms of this oath are curious. He swears, in addition to the

usual points relating to secrecy, that he will never have any carnal

knowledge of his mother, sister, or daughter, but will always extend

his protection towards them ; that he will not assassinate a Brahmin,

or rob him of gold or other property,

but rather relieve him ;

that he

will not be addicted to intemperance in eating or drinking ; and that

ho will not associate with any person who has polluted himself by the

commission of these crimes.

81 Vid. Bhagvat Geeta, p. 29. Facts in natural history were made
subservient to the purposes of superstition. This sacred Shell, which had nine valves, or foldings, was referred to the nine incarnations of
Vishnu. (Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 906.)
82 This was the actual name of one the grottoes in the subterranean
temple of Elora, and is supposed by Faber (Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 255.) to have been the illuminated sacellum into which the aspirant was introduced at the close of his initiation.

83 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. ii., p. 281.
84 Ibid. vol. v., p. 897.

^Philost. in vit. Apollon., 1. ii., p. 2.

42

HISTORY OF INITIATION

thronged with priests and hierophants, arrayed in gorgeous vestments, and crowned with mitres and tiaras of

burnished

86
gold.

With eyes rivetted on the altar, he

was taught to expect the descent of the deity in the

bright pyramidal

fire that blazed

87
upon it.

The sudden

sound

of the

shell

or

88
trumpet,

to

which

the

hollow

caverns reverberated in long and continued echoes; the

expansion of the folding doors ; the brilliant display so

unexpectedly exhibited

before

him ;

the

instantaneous

prostration of the priests, and the profound silence which

followed this ceremony, filled the mind of the aspirant

with admiration, and lighted up the holy fervour of devo-

tion in his heart ;

so that, in the moment of enthusiasm,

he could almost persuade himself that he actually be-
held the expected descent of the great Brahma seated on

the lotos, with his four heads89 and bearing in his hands

86 The riches of many of these temples is incredible. The pillars

were covered with plates of gold, intermixed with precious stones.
(Maur. Ind. Ant, vol. iii., p. 368.) The images were of gold and silver, and many thousands were often found in the same temple. (Ib.

p. 369. And when
his astonishment he

Mahmed broke in pieces the
found the hollow body full of

idol of Sunmaut, to " diamonds, rubies,

and pearls, of a water so pure, and of a magnitude so uncommon, that the beholders were filled with surprise and admiration." (Ib. p.
373.) The idol of Krishna in the temple at Mattra had two -great
rubies in the place of eyes ; and the floor of the hallowed temple at
Naugracut was covered with plates of gold. (Mandeslo. Travels, p. 21.) The principal idol in the Pagoda at Benares was decorated with chains of precious stones, some being rubies, others pearls, and others emeralds. (Voyage de Tavernier, torn, iv., p. 151.) In somo of the Pagodas, the ears of the monstrous idols were gilded and full
of jewels, their teeth and eyes of gold. (Purch. Pilgr., vol. i., p.
579.) And the priests were as proud of these trophies, as if they were their own personal property.
87 " God is in the fire of the altar." (Bhagvat Geeta, p. 54.) 88 Vid. 1 Thess. iv., 16, where the Judge of all the world is repre-

sented as descending to the sound of the eternal trumpet.
89 The four heads of Brahma represent equally the four elements, and the four quarters of the globe. The history of the production of
these four heads is somewhat curious, and I therefore introduce it

h"eWrehefnromBrtahhemaMaatsssyuamePduraamnoar,tainl

Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. shape, he was pleased

i.,
to

p. 319. manifest

himself in Cashmir. Here one half of his body sprang from the other,

which yet experienced no diminution; and out of the severed moiety, he framed a woman, denominated Iva and Satarupa. Her beauty was

such as to excite the love of the god ; but deeming her his daughter, he was ashamed to own his passion. During this conflict between shame and love he remained motionless,, with his eyes fixed upon her.

IN HINDOOS TAN.

43

the

usual

emblems

of

eternity

and

uncontrollable

90
power,

the

91
circle,

and

92 fire.

Satarupa perceived his situation, and stepped aside to avoid his
ardent looks. Brahma, being unable to move, but still desirous to see her, a new face sprang out upon him towards the object of his desires. Again she shifted her situation, and another face emanated from the enamoured god. Still she avoided his gaze, until the incar-
nate deity, become conspicuous with four faces directed to the four
quarters of the world, beheld her incessantly, to whatever side she
withdrew herself. At length she recovered her self-possession, when
the other half of his body sprang from him, and became Swayambhuva or Adima. Thus were produced the first man and woman, and from their embrace were born three sons, in whom the Trimurti

became incarnate."

90 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 852.

91 The Circle or King was received as an expressive symbol of the

Ark all over the world ;

and as the great Father was hidden within its

enclosure during the prevalence of the diluvian waters, many fables

sprang out of this connection. I shall mention only one, the mysteri-

ous Ring of Gyges, which was reputed to render the wearer invisible.

*
Gyges,

according

to

Plato,

found

a brazen

horse

in

a

cavern.

Within the horse was hid the body of a man of gigantic stature,

having a brazen ring on his finger. This ring Gyges took, and

found that it rendered him invisible. The cavern, the ring, and the

giant, show pretty evidently whence this fable originated. The mare

was a form of Ceres or Hippa, the mystic nurse of the ark-exposed

Bacchus or Noah ;

the man, therefore, was the Ark.

The dead giant

was the gigantic Buddha, or the great father, during the period of
his death-like slumber while enclosed within the ark. And the

cavern was one of those sacred grottoes, within which the mysteries were perpetually celebrated ; and from which both he and his initiated votaries were feigned to be born again." (Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. ii., p.

440, in riota. 1.

93 " Suddenly

a

golden

temple

appeared,

containing

a chain of

wrought gold. On the summit of the temple Brahma alighted, and

held a canopy over the head of Sacya ; while Indra, with a fan in his

hand ;

Naga, prince of

serpents, and the four tutelary deities

of the

four corners of the universe, attended to do him reverence and

service." (Asiat. Res., vol. ii., p. 385.)

44

LECTURE III.

PHILOSOPHY OF THE EASTERN MYSTERIES.

THE fatigue attending the protracted ceremonies de-

scribed in the preceding lecture exhausted the aspirant ;
and therefore to renovate his spirits, he was made to drink a fermented liquor out of a human skull. And
now being fully regenerate, a new name was given him, expressive of his recently attained purity, and he was

introduced to the chief Brahmin, in the midst of the

august assembly, who received him as a brother and associate, invested him with a white robe and tiara,

seated him in an elevated situation, and solemnly de-

livered the signs, tokens, and lectures of the Order. His

forehead

was

marked

with

a

1
cross,

which

was

explained

as symbolical of the four cardinal points of the compass.

An

inverted

level

was

inscribed

on

his

2
breast,

to

express

his recently acquired dignity, by which he was advanced

to an equality with the superior order of the priests. He

was

invested

with

the

sacred

sash

or

3
belt,

the

consecrated

chaplet, the Kowsteke-Men, or Kowstoobh, 4 and the

*

1 The sectarial mark on the forehead is called Tiluka. (Valmic.

Ramayuna, p. 2.) Mr. Maurice (Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 849) says he has no doubt but this mark was the hermetic cross.

2
Or,

in other words,

the

tau

cross ;

which was

considered

equally

as a badge of innocence, and a symbol of eternal life.

3 Mr. Maurice is very particular in his description of this sacred

cord.

It can be

woven

by no profane

hand ;

the

Brahmin alone

can

twine

the

hallowed

threads

that

compose

and
it,

it is

done by him

with the utmost solemnity, and with the addition of many mystic

rites. Three threads, each measuring ninety-six hands, are first twisted together ; then they are folded into three and twisted again,

making it consist of nine, i. e., three

times three threads ;

this is folded

again into three, but without any more twisting, and each end is then

fastened with a knot. Such is the zennar, which being put on the

left shoulder, passes to the right side, and hangs down as low as the
fingers can reach. (Ind. Ant., vol. iv., p. 740.) 4 Vid. Signs and Symbols, Lect. 10.

EASTERN MYSTERIES.

45

talismanic label for the left arm.

The

5
salagram,

or

magical

black

stone,

was

delivered

to

6
him,

as

an

amulet

which would insure to him the protection of Vishnu,

whose multiform shapes he was emblematically said to

have assumed ;

and the serpent stone, an

amulet

similar

to the anguinum of the Druids, was presented as an

antidote against the bite of serpents, or other venomous

7

reptiles.
He was then instructed in the secret art of composing

amulets,

for

his

own

personal

8
protection,

and

incanta-

tions, to procure the torture or destruction of his enemies, 9

and being now fully invested, the candidate was entrusted

with the sublime NAME, which was known only to the

5 Specimens of the Salagram may be seen in the Museum of the

Asiatic Society.

6 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 908.

7 Ibid. vol. iv., p. 660.

8 "A branch of Snuhi (Euphorbia) in a whitened vessel, placed with

a red flag on the house-top, on the fourteenth day of the dark half

Charted, drives away sin and disease." (Rajamartanda, in Asiat.

A Res., vol. iii., p. 279.)

charmed paste, to procure good fortune, is

said, in the Drama of Sacontala, to be prepared as follows : " I have

filled," says Anusuya, " the shell of a cocoa nut, which you see fixed

on an Amra tree, with the fragrant dust of Nagacesaras ; take it down

and keep it in a fresh lotos leaf, whilst I collect some Gorachana from

the forehead of a sacred cow, some earth from the consecrated ground,

and some fresh Cusa grass, of which I will make a paste, to insure

good fortune." (Sir W. Jones. Works, vol. vi.)
9 This was a most horrible ceremony in a country where the people

were superstitiously addicted to the belief of preternatural acquire-

We ments.

are not informed what was the absolute nature of this

charm; but the following was considered sufficiently efficacious to

destroy an enemy. He who wished to use it, waited patiently for the

ceremony of

burning

a

widow

on

the

funeral

pile

of

her

husband ;

from the flames of which he snatched the half-consumed bamboo lever

by which the bodies had been secured, and retreated rapidly to his

hut. Here, in the dead of night, he formed this purified bamboo into

a bow, and having set up a clay image to represent his unconscious

adversary, he aims an arrow at its breast, which is believed to inflict

a similar wound on his enemy, that would, undoubtedly, prove fatal

unless averted by a counter incantation. The Hindoos used charms

on every occurrence in life, and generally had the Lingam suspended

from their neck (Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 935); for protection

against serpents and ravenous

beasts ;

to cure diseases ;

to ensure

success

in

litigated

suits ;

to appease or destroy an enemy, &c., &c.

The remnant of this ancient superstition is observable amongst the

uneducated rustics in almost every part of Europe ; but in India it

still exists in all its primitive force.

10 The Mahometans, in common with the Jews and idolaters, attach to the knowledge of this sacred Name the most wonderful powers.

46

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

initiated; and which signified the solar fire, or more properly the sun itself, the sacred emblem of the supreme

deity ; and united in its comprehensive meaning the great

Trimurti, or combined principle, on which the existence

OM of all things is founded. This word was

n
;

or as it

was expressed in a triliteral form in the mysteries, AUM, 12

to represent the creative, preserving, and destroying

power

of

the

13
deity,

personified

in

Brahma,

Vishnu,

Siva,

the symbol of which was

an

equilateral

14
triangle.

This ineffable word formed the subject of incessant and

pleasing contemplation, which could be indulged only in

.

15
silence,

and

seclusion ;

for the pronunciation of this aw-

ful Name A. U. M.

16 was
)

said

to

make

earth

tremble,

u
They pretend

that God

is

the

Lock

of

the Ism Allah,

or science of

the name of God, and Mohammed the King ; that consequently none

but Mohammedans can attain it; that it discovers what passes in

distant countries; that it familiarizes the possessors with the genii,

who

are

at

the

command

of the

initiated, and

who

instruct

them ;

that it places the winds and the seasons at their disposal ; that it

heals the bite of serpents, the lame, the maimed, and the blind."

(Niebuhr, cited by Southey, Thalaba, vol. i., p. 198.)
11 Vid. Asiat. Res., vol. i., p. 285.
1S In the Oracles ascribed to Zoroaster is a passage which pronounces

the sacred Names used in the Mysteries to be ineffable, and not to be changed, because revealed by God himself.
13 Wilkins, notes on Bhagvat Geeta, p. 142. This mystic emblem

of the deity OM, is forbidden to be pronounced but in silence. It is

a syllable formed of the letters SJ a, "*5 66, which in composition

3 coalesce, and make

an d
5

the nasal

consonant

*?^

m.

The first

letter stands for the Creator, the second for the Preserver, and the
third for the Destroyer.
14 Maur. Ind. Ant, vol. vii., p. 623. The perfectiors of God are
thus described in the last book of the Ramayan, translated by Sir W.
Jones. (Works, vol. vi.) "Vishnu is the being of beings; one sub-

stance in three forms ; without mode, without quality, without passion ;

immense, incomprehensible, infinite, indivisible, immutable, incorporeal,

irresistible.

His

operations no

mind can conceive ;

and his will moves

all the inhabitants of the universe, as puppets are moved by strings."

It must be observed, however, that the same is also true of the other

two persons

in

the

divine

triad ;

for as

these

three

are

in

fact but

one

person, the above attributes were ascribed to him, under what name soever he might be designated.

[ Bhagvat Geeta, p. 74. 16 Mr. Faber says, that this cipher graphically exhibits the divine

triad, Balrarna, Subhadra, and Jagan-nath. In an old Purana, as we

learn from shows the

the Abbe Du Bois, the
veneration displayed by

following passage is the ancient Indians

found, which
for this tre-

mendous word: "All the rites ordained in the Vedas, the sacrifices

EASTERN MYSTERIES.

47

and even the angels of heaven to quake for fear. When
it was thus perfectly communicated, the aspirant was
directed to meditate upon it with the following associations, which are the mysterious names of the seven worlds,
or manifestations of the power of OM, the solar fire.
"OM! 17 Earth, sky, heaven, middle region, place of
births, mansion of the blessed, abode of truth." 18

The Arch .Brahmin, making a sign to the initiated to

be silent and attentive, now entered on the explanation

of the various emblems which were arranged around

him with the arcana of the hidden science enfolded ;

under

the

holy

gloom

of

their

mysterious

veil ;

the names

and attributes of the several deities whose symbols were

sculptured

on

the

cavern walls ;

and

an

elucidation

of

the

mythological, figures which

every where

abounded ;

emblems of wisdom, strength, and beauty ; temperance,

fortitude, prudence, and justice, and every other com-

mendable virtue.

The science of astronomy occupied a proportionate
share of attention during this display ; but its more ab-
struse problems were hid from common investigation by
the enigmatical obscurity with which they were studi-
ously invested. Thus a horned elephant's head symbolized
the Sun, and a rabbit the Moon;19 but the Sun and Moon

were termed, in their sacred dialect, the two eyes of

God ;

therefore

the

foregoing

emblems were

mystically

the two eyes of God. Geometry was very early practised in India, as is evident from the true proportions of

those stupendous caverns which have been already de-

scribed.20 The Brahmins were consequently acquainted

with the science

of arithmetic ;

they understood

music,

and Mr. Maurice thinks they were the inventors of algebra.

OM to the fire, and all other solemn purifications shall pass away ; but

that which shall never pass away is the word

; for it is the symbol

of the Lord of all things." Mr. Wilkins informs us, from the Bhagvat

Geeta (p. 122), that in addition to the above cipher, which signifies

ff^ Om. the combination of two others,

Tat, and Al Q|^ Sat, are

necessary to compose the mysterious name of the deity. An elephant's

head was the, visible emblem of this awful name.

17 OM is termed by Dara Shekoh, the seal by which secrets or

mysteries are revealed. (Vid. Wait. Orient. Ant, p. 36.)

18 Porph. de. Ant. Nymph., p. 268. Asiat. Res., vol. v., p. 348.

19 Heetop., p. 177.

Vid. ut supra, p. 21.

48

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

Their sylvan residence imparted a taste for the study of botany, which exemplified itself in the practice of medicine and surgery; nor were they ignorant of chemistry,
mineralogy, metallurgy; and excelled in many other
abstruse arts, as well as those domestic manufactures

which are attendant on civilization, and contribute their

aid to the refinements of social life.

An extensive system of symbolical instruction was

used in the Mysteries, and the veil by which they were

covered

was

too dense for the uninitiated

to

21
penetrate.

Eternity was symbolized equally by a serpent and a

wheel;

fire

by

a

22
trident;

wisdom, strength, and beauty

by a circle

of horned

heads ;

benevolence

by

the

cow

23
j

friendship

by

the

buccinum

or

conch ;

wisdom

by

the

chakram 24 the lotos25 was an emblem of the soul's free;

21 " In truth," says Stukeley, " the first learning in the world consisted chiefly in symbols. The wisdom of the Chaldeans, Phenicians,

Egyptians, Jews; of Zoroaster, Sanchoniathon, Pherecydes, Syrus, Pythagoras, Socrates, Plato, of all the ancients that is come to our hand, is symbolic. It was the mode, says Serranus on Plato's Sym-

posium, of the ancient philosophers to represent truth by certain symbols and hidden images."
23 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 857. 23 The cow was also a symbol of the great mother (Herod., 1. ii., c. 41, et Vid. Tobit i., 5) ; for this animal was usually identified with the
Ark. Thus the great father is indifferently said to be born from a cow
and from the Ark.

24 Krishna is described in the Geeta (p. 91) as "of infinite shape; formed with abundant arms, and bellies, and mouths, and eyes; crowned, and armed with a club and Chakra; a mass of glory darting refulgent beams around." The Chakram is a round or circular machine,
of which many devotees of Vishnu bear the emblem, imprinted on their
shoulders with a hot iron. It is still used in some places as a weapon of war, and is nothing more than a large circular plate of iron, the
outer edge of which is made very sharp. Through the centre a shaft passes, by means of which a rotatory motion is given to the plate, which whirls with great rapidity, and cuts whatever it approaches."
(Dubois on the Inst. of Ind., p. 3, c. 11.) It is also used without the
shaft, for Mr. Wilkins, in his notes on the Geeta (p. 96), describes it as "a kind of discus with a sharp edge hurled in battle from the
point of the fore finger, for which there is a hole in the centre." 25 This plant had the good fortune to be held sacred in most coun-
tries^ In Egypt it was called the lily of the Nile; and Mr. Savary

(vol. i., p. 8) says it still maintains its pristine veneration in that

country. It was the great vegetable amulet which distinguished the

eastern nations. Their gods were always represented as seated on the

lotos ;

it was

the sublime throne of

oriental

mythology, and

referred

indubitably to the ark of Noah.

EASTERN MYSTERIES.

49

dom when liberated from its earthly tabernacle, the body ; for it takes root in the mud deposited at the bottom of a

river, vegetates by degrees from the germ to a perfect

plant, and afterwards rising proudly above the waves, it

floats in air as if independent of any extraneous aid.

The Bull was an emblem of religion, his four legs being

representations of purity, compassion, penance, and truth ; and the triple headband with which he was usually bound

denoted that he was to be worshipped morning, noon, and

A night.

spear was a symbol of omnipotence, as rays

A of glory were of blessings emanating from the gods.

serpent, bearing a globe in its folds, represented the union

of wisdom and eternity; and pointed to the great father

and mother of the renovated world ; the egg and lunette26

symbolized the generative principle, in the persons of
the same progenitors ; for the moon and egg were equally symbols of the ark from which they issued when they became the parents of a new race.27 The triangle within

a circle referred

to the

Trimurti 23 ;

and the trident had a

similar allusion. The ark of Noah, as a lunette, symbolized

the female principle, with the linga, or male principle for

a mast ;

for according to the Brahmins, it was under this

form

that

the

two

principles

of

29
generation

were

pre-

served

at

the

universal

30
Deluge.

Thus were religion and

36 Siva is called " the god with the crescent." (Bhagvat Geeta'

p. 81.)
37 " In memory of the Ark, the ancients were not only accustomed to

carry about small navicular shrines, but sometimes even built their

temples in the form of ships. Diodorus Siculus mentions, that Sesos-

tris constructed a ship, which was 280 cubits long, and adds that it

was made of cedar ;

that it was covered with plates of gold and silver;

and that it was dedicated to Osiris or Noah, at the city of Theba or

the Ark. It is sufficiently evident, both from the preceding description

of this ship, from its being dedicated to Osiris, and from its being

placed in the inland district of the Thebais, that it never was designed

for a voyage at sea. It was, in fact, an immense navicular temple, built

in imitation of the Ark, and destined for the solemn performance of the

diluvian mysteries. Hence the Greeks designated a temple and a ship
by the very same word, Naus or Naos; and hence what is, doubtless, a relic of the primeval arkite idolatry, we still call the body of a

church, in contradistinction to the chancel, the nave or ship." (Fab.

Cab., vol. i., p. 215.)

Moor's Hind. Panth., p. 400. 29 The fact is, that the entire worship of these idolaters was and

still continues to be nothing less than a disgusting scene of lascivious-

ness, obscenity, and blood. (Vid. Buchanan, Researches in Asia, p.

129-141.)

so Asiat. Res., vol. vi., p. 523.

5

50

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

philosophy veiled under the impervious shade of hieroglyphical symbols ; unintelligible to the profane, and intended to lead them into a maze of error, from which

it was difficult to extract a single idea which bore any resemblance to the original truth. These symbols were

publicly displayed in their temples, beaming streams of light to the initiated; while to the profane they were but an obscure mass of unintelligible darkness.
Here the initiation ended, and the candidate was

allowed to marry, and bring up his family. His third probation, or Banperisth, commenced when his children were all capable of providing for themselves, and he was
weary of the troubles and vexations of active life. He

returned with his

wife

into

the

recesses

of the

forest ;

renounced all other society; lived in the open air,; ate
only vegetables ; practised every kind of ablution known
in his caste; used all the daily prayers without any

omission, and occupied himself principally in sacrificing

to

the

31
gods.

Arid from this point of time he was said

to

be

twice

32
born,

and

was

considered

as

a

being

of a

superior order.33

The fourth degree was believed to impart an extreme

portion of merit to the intrepid sage who possessed

courage enough to undertake the performance of its

duties. After being formally installed by an assembly of his caste, he was solemnly bound by oath to the

following observances: to rub his whole body every

morning

with

ashes ;

to

avoid

the

company

of

women ;

to

wear

heavy

and

inconvenient

clogs,

made

of

wood ;

to

subsist entirely on alms; to renounce the world and all

his former connections, and to exercise himself in inces-

sant contemplation. This, added to an endless catalogue

of other duties, penances, and mortifications, was believed

capable

of transforming the

happy

54
Sannyase

into

the

divine

35
nature,

and

to

secure

him

a

residence

amongst

the

celestial

36
gods.

31 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 977.

v*
^
tion

Valmic. Ramayun, p. 90. of the mysteries of Greece

This corresponds and Rome.

with
^

the regeneraIbid., p. 95.

34 The word Sannyase means a total abstraction from all worldly

things. (Bhagvat Geeta, p. 143.)

W. 35 Ordin. of Menu. Sir

Jones. Works, vol. iii., p. 461.

36 "Higher worlds," say the Ordinances of Menu, "are illuummiinated

EASTERN MYSTERIES.

51

111 the initiations in India a lecture was delivered to

the candidate, founded on the following principles. The

first element and cause of all things was water, which

existed amidst primordial darkness. Brahm was the

creator of this globe, and by his spirit invigorates the

seventy-four powers of nature ; but the universe is with-

out beginning, and without end.37 He is the being who

was,

and

is,

and

is

to

come ;

and

his

emblem was a per-

fect sphere, having neither commencement nor termina-

tion.38 Endowed with the attributes of omnipotence,

omnipresence, and omniscience.39 And in the Asiatic

Researches40 we find him designated, "the great God,

the great omnipotent and omniscient

ONE ;

the

greatest

in the world; the Lord," &c., &c., &c.

This divine Being created the waters with a thought,

and placed in them a seed, which soon became an egg,

brilliant as the meridian sun.

Out

of

this

41
egg

Brahma

with the glory of that man, who passes from his house into the fourth
order, giving exemption from fear to all animated beings, and pro-
nouncing the mystic words of the Veda." (Sir W. Jones. Works,

vol. iii., p. 230.)

37 Bhagvat Geeta, p. 116.

38 Holwell. Hist. Event. Capt. Seely (Wonders of Elora, p. 73)

says, "there is no idol in front of the great altar in the Templo of

Ekverah, or

at

Elora ;

the

umbrella

covering

rises

from

a

wooden

A pedestal out of the convexity of the altar.

Brahmin whom I ques-

tioned on the subject of the altar, exclaimed, in nearly the words of
our own poet, Him first, Him last, Him midst, Him without end.

In alluding to the Almighty, he nearly spoke as above described,

placing his hand on this circular solid mass. He rejected all idea of

assimilating Buddha or Brahma with the Eternal God, who, he said,

was

One

alone

from

beginning

to

end ;

and

that

the

circular

altar was

his emblem."

39 This Being was identified with LIGHT, for the Brahmins say,

"because the Being who shines with seven rays, assuming the forms

of time and fire, matures productions, is resplendent, illuminates,

and finally destroys the universe, therefore, he who naturally shines

with seven rays is called Light, or the effulgent power." (Cole-

brooke. Asiat. Res., vol. v., p. 350.) Thus Brahm is Light; and

light is the principle of life in every created thing.

" Light

and

darkness are esteemed the world's eternal ways ; he who walketh in

the former path returneth not; i. e., he goeth immediately to bliss;

whilst he who walketh in the latter cometh back again upon tho

earth," or is subjected to further tedious transmigrations. (Bhagvat

Geeta, p. 76.)
10 Vol. viii., p. 325.
41 The egg which contains the rudiments of life, and was hence esteemed no unimportant symbol of the resurrection, was no other

52

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

was

42
produced,

after

having

remained

a

full

year

enclosed

in absolute absorption, who was hence termed the ema-

nation of the deity. The egg was afterwards divided

into two equal parts, one of which formed the concave and egg-like canopy of heaven, and the other the earth.43

Brahma, invested with power, created inferior gods and

men ;

the

latter

springing

from

his

head, his

arms, his

thighs, and his feet, were naturally divided into so many

distinct

4*
castes,

between

which

all

communication

was

strictly interdicted.

They

taught

the

unity

of

the

45
godhead j

the

happiness

of

the

first

created

men 46 ;

the

destruction

occasioned

by

the

general

47
Deluge ;

the

depravity

of

the

human

heart,

and the necessity of a mediator to atone for sin; the

instability

of

48
life;

the

final

dissolution

of

all

created

49
things;

and

the

restoration

of

the

world

in

a

more

per-

than

the

Ark ;

and

the

legend in the

text corresponds

exactly with

the

belief of other nations Dionusus was fabled by the Greeks to be

born from an egg (Orph. Hymn, 5). And he and Noah were the

same person ; therefore the birth of Brahma or Dionusus from an

egg was nothing more than the egress of Noah from the Ark. ( Vid.

Fab. Pag. Idol., b. i., c. 4.)

43 Here is a manifest confusion of terms. The creation of the

world, and its restoration after the Deluge are frequently identified in
the heathen cosmogonies ; and, in the present case, although the work of creation is intended to be exclusively illustrated, yet the year
which Brahma spent in the egg was evidently the confinement of Noah in the Ark ; for Brahma equally represented Adam and Noah.
43 See Manava Sastra, translated by Sir William Jones, Asiat.

Res., vol. i., p. 244.

44

These

were

called

the

Brahmins ;

the

Csheiriya,

the

Vaisya,

and

the Sudra; so named from Scripture, Protection, Wealth, and Labour.

W. (Ordin. of Menu. Sir

Jones. Works, vol. iii., p. 69.)

45 It is a question whether the Creator in India was esteemed to be

the true God, or an emanation, from their belief in a succession of

similar worlds; and, consequently, a personification of Adam and

Noah, who were equally worshipped under the name of Brahma, or

the

creative

power,

because

he

was

the

parent

of mankind ;

for

Brahma was only a created being. In truth, Brahma appears to have

been

Adam

or

Noah ;

and

Brahma, Vishnu,

Siva, was

either

Abel,

Ham Seth, Cain, or Shem, Japheth,

; and there exists considerable

doubt after all, whether the being to whom the rites of Hindoo wor-

ship are so devoutly paid, were not a mere deified mortal. See

Faber's Pagan Idolatry (b. i., c. 2), where many powerful arguments
are used to this effect.

46 Signs and Symbols, Lect. 5.

Ibid. Lect. 5.

48 Hitopadesa, 1. 4.

49 The Indians believed that the duration of the world would cease,

EASTERN MYSTERIES.

53

feet and happy form.50 They inculcated the eternity of the soul and the metempsychosis, under the name of

Degeneration, to account for the mysterious dispensations

ji Providence; for this doctrine embodied and familiarized

the idea of man's personal responsibility. They held the

doctrine

of a

future

state

of

rewards

and

51
punishments;

and pressed on the initiated, with great earnestness, the

indispensable necessity of voluntary penances to atone for sin, and appease the wrath of an avenging deity.
The Mysteries of China and its dependencies were

and its destruction be consummated when the zodiac had effected

one complete revolution. And as, by the precession of the equinoxes,

this was supposed. to advance about one degree in something less

than a century, so the universal dissolution of the present system
would undoubtedly be accomplished 36,000 years from the creation. Then the Calci, mounted triumphantly on a white horse, and armed

with a Scimeter which blazes like a comet, shall involve all things in fire, and reduce the world to ashes. "Kuddery (Siva) shall, at that
period, summon up all the powers of destruction; the moon shall

look red, the sun shall shed his purling light like flaming brimstone ;

the lightning shall flash with terror; the sky shall change into all

colours, but, especially, a fiery redness shall overspread the face of heaven ; the four elements of which the world at first was constituted,

shall be at opposition and variance, till, by this agony, she be turned, to her first confusion. Then shall Ruddery carry up the souls of all

people to heaven with him, to rest in God's bosom, but the bodies

shall perish." (Lord Ban. Rel., p. 91.)
50 From the ruins of every world a new one was expected to arise, where peace and harmony should prevail in a perfect and renewed, creation. From a firm persuasion that souls were subject to the

process of transmigration, they considered each period to be similar
and parallel in all its events. (Book of Abad. Desatir.) At the commencement of each Manwantera, the first created man, corre-

sponding with Adam, was supposed to triplicate himself; and the

three productions thus formed were the counterpart of Abel, Seth,
Cain, who were worshipped as a triad of Deity. The souls of these persons were reanimated in Shem, Japheth, Ham, who were acknow-

ledged in India, under the names of Brahma, Vishnu, Siva. This

system they believed to be eternal ; and thus every individual who

lived in a former world, was supposed to be renewed, and act precisely the same part as he had done before. Hence might probably

originate the abominable custom of burning widows, that they might accompany their deceased husbands into another state, and there

remain united in
' l " As a man

the nuptial tie. (See Fab. throweth away old garments

Pag. Idol., and putteth

b. L, c.
on new,

2.) even

so the soul, having quitted its old mortal frame, eritereth into others

which are new

Wise men, who have abandoned all thoughts of

the fruit which is produced from their actions, are freed from the

chains of birth, and go to the regions of eternal happiness." (Bhag-

vat Geeta, p. 37, 40.)

54

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

essentially similar to those of India, being derived from the same source, and containing the same rites, founded

A on the same general principles; for ancient India com-

prehended the whole of that vast continent.

recapitu-

lation of the ceremony of initiation will, therefore, be

unnecessary, and I shall confine my notices of China and

Japan to the detail of a few prominent facts, which con-

stituted the shades of difference between them and other

Asiatic nations.

The Chinese practised Buddhism in its most simple

form, and worshipped an invisible God,52 until a few

centuries before the Christian era, when visible objects

of adoration were

53
introduced;

and

so

rapid

was

the

march of innovation, that in the course of a very short
period, China was as famous as any other idolatrous nation for the number and variety of its objects of popu-
lar adoration.54 It is true that many abuses had crept,

52 Martinius. in Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 797.

53 Lao-Kiun, who flourished about the year A. C. 600, introduced

a system which bore a striking resemblance to that of Epicurus, and

his followers styled themselves Immortals. (Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v.,

p. 807.) They were materialists, but addicted, notwithstanding, to

the worship of idols.

54 Confucius attempted to reform ^the abuses' which had crept into

their religious mysteries ; but licentiousness long indulged, could not

quietly submit to the mortifying castigation of austere and unbending
virtue. The Emperor and his grandees disregarded his admonitions ;

the Mandarins hated him for projecting a reformation in those

abstruse mysteries, which, in their present state, were the chief

source of all their wealth and all their power ; and one of them actu-

ally made an attempt upon his life. And the great philosopher, who

was afterwards adored as a god by his countrymen was obliged to

fly from civilized society to escape from the dreaded machinations of
his powerful opponents. He retired into the desert, and formed a

school of philosophy, to which he invited all who were inspired with

a love

of virtue and science ;

and the genial effects of his improved

system were reserved for the enjoyment of posterity. One promi-

nent misconception, however, counteracted the benefits which might

reasonably be expected to result from this greatjnan's improvements.
On his death bed he predicted that there should arise in the western

part of the world a GREAT PROPHET (Couplet, p. 78), who should

deliver mankind from the bondage of error and superstition, and

establish an universal system of religion, which should be ultimately embraced by all the nations of the earth. His followers erroneously

concluded that this great and powerful being was no other than Buddha or Fo himself, who was, accordingly, installed into their

Temples in a visible form (Asiat. Kes., vol. vii., p. 299), with solemn

pomp, as the chief deity of the Chinese empire. This proceeding

EASTERN MYSTERIES.

55

by gradual approaches, into their former system of

worship; and the people, debased by superstition, were

prepared for any novel scheme which might gratify their pride, or satiate their curiosity. The priests converted

the profound veneration of the worshippers to their

own aggrandizement ; and successive changes tended, in

the revolution of ages, greatly to deteriorate the primi-

tive simplicity of their devotion.

The initiations were performed in a cavern; after

which, processions

were

made

round the

Tan

or

55
altar,

and sacrifices offered to the celestial gods. The chief

end of initiation was a fictions immortality, or absorption

into

the

56
deity j

and

to

secure

this

admirable

state of

supreme and never changing felicity, amulets57 were as

usual delivered to the newly initiated candidates, accom-

panied by the magical words O-MI-TO Fo,58 which denoted

the omnipotence of the divinity ; and was considered as

a most complete purification, and remission of every sin.

Their morality was limited to five precepts. The first

opened a door to

other

idolatrous

innovations ;

and

ideal

objects

of

worship, attended with indecent and unnatural rites (Martin. Sinic.

Hist., p. 149), accumulated so rapidly, that China soon became cele-

brated for the practice of every impurity and abomination which

characterized the most degraded nation of the heathen world.

55 Bryant. Anal., vol. i., p. 94.

66 Gros. Chin., vol. ii., c. 5.

57 The most valuable amulet they can possess, is a small idol

enfolded in a sheet of consecrated paper. To his neck and arms are

appended bracelets composed of a hundred small beads and eight

large

ones ;

and

in

a

conspicuous

situation is

placed a large bead in

the shape of a gourd. The happy possessor of this trinket, on

important occasions, counted the beads pronouncing the mysterious

words 0-mi-to Fo ! accompanied by many genuflections. The per-

formance of this ceremony is recorded by marking a red circle round

the neck of the genius ; and, at the death of the devotee, the aggre-

gate number of these circles, as indisputable testimonials of the

divine favour, or of deliverance from danger, are minutely attested

and sealed by the officiating Bonze. The whole is then deposited in

a small box and buried with the deceased as a passport to heaven,

and a certain deliverance from the dreaded evil of successive trans-

migrations.

W. ** Omito was derived, says Sir

Jones (Asiat. Ees., vol. ii.,

p. 374), from the Sanscrit Armida, immeasurable; and Fo was only

another name

for

Buddha ;

or,

more

properly,

the

same

name

softened

down by a diversity of language and pronunciation. See Faber's

Pagan Idolatry (vol. ii., p. 342), where the grades are traced by

which the one became transformed into the other.

56

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

forbids murder; the second, theft; the third, external

impurity; the fourth, lying; and the fifth, drunkenness.

They particularly recommended the candidate to afford

protection

to

the

59
bonzes,

that

by

the

prayers of these

holy men, they might be exempted from the fearful

punishment of their transgressions; which, they were

told, would otherwise consign their transmigrating souls

to the purifying medium of a horse, a mule, a dog, a

cat, a rat, or of a loathsome and insignificant reptile.

Much merit was attached to the possession of a con-

secrated symbol representing the great triad of the gentile

world. This was an equilateral triangle, said to afford

Y protection in all cases of personal danger and adversity.
The mystical symbol was also much esteemed from its

allusion

to

the

same

tri-une

60
god ;

the

three

distinct

lines

of which it is composed forming one, and the one is three.61

This was in effect the ineffable name of the deity ; the

Tetractys of Pythagoras, and the Tetragrammaton of the

A Jews.

ring, supported by two serpents, was emble-

matical of the world protected by the ponver and wisdom

of the

Creator ;

and

referred

to

the

diluviari

patriarch

and

his

symbolical

consort,

the

ark ;

and the

ark

itself was

represented by a boat,

a mouth,

and the

number

62
eight.

The Rainbow was a celebrated symbol in these mys-

teries, and doubtless originated in the history of the

Deluge ; for it was believed that the father of their radiant

god

Fo-hi

was

a

63
rainbow,

which

miraculously

surround-

ed his mother while walking by a river's side. The aspi-

ra These artful priests used magical ceremonies to delude the mul-

titude, and to direct the tide of popular prejudice in their favour
through the medium of superstition. They boasted of their power
over the winds and elements, and proclaimed themselves the possessors of the philosophers' stone, which would transmute the baser

metals to gold, and convey the blessing of immortality.

60 Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. i., p. 248.

" Tao,

or

reason,

hath

produced

one ;

one hath

produced two ;

two hath produced

three ;

and three have

produced all things." (Du Halde, China, vol. ii. p. 30. Le Comte.

China, p. 318.)

We 61

find here again a superstitious veneration for odd numbers,

as containing divine properties. Thus while the sum of the even num-

bers, 2+4-|-6-f8+1 0=30 designated the Number of Earth; the sum

of the odd numbers,
tion of the Number

l-f3-f5+7-f9=25 of Heaven.

was

dignified

with

the

appella-

62 Fab. Alys. Cab., vol i., p. 253. 63 Vid. Signs and Symbols, Lect. 5.

EASTERN MYSTERIES.

57

rant, however, was the representative of Noah ; and the

ark, which was accounted his mother as well as his wife,

was actually surrounded by a rainbow, at the time of

his

deliverance or new birth ;

and

hence

he

was

figura-

tively said to be the offspring of the rainbow.64

The Japanese held that the world was enclosed in an

65
egg

before

the

creation,

which

floated

on

the

surface

of

the waters.06

At

this

period

a

67
prickle appeared

amongst

64 The universal prevalence of this symbol in all the systems of which we have any knowledge, is very remarkable ; and points out that the

Spurious Freemasonry had a reference, in its original state, to the

Deluge; and that the holy covenant of God was embodied in its

system of hieroglyphical symbols.

65 The Egg was always esteemed an emblem of the earth.

66 The history is thus given in the Ceremonies and Religious Customs of various Nations, (p. 417.) " There is a pagoda at Micoa con-

secrated to a hieroglyphic Bull, which is placed on a large square altar, and composed of solid gold. His neck is adorned with a very costly

collar ;

but that indeed is

not the

principal

object that

commands our

attention. The most remarkable thing is the Egg, which he pushes

with his horns, as he gripes it between his forefeet. This Bull is

placed on the summit of a rock, and the Egg floats in some water,

which is enclosed within the hollow space of it. The Egg represents

the Chaos and what follows is the illustration which the doctors of ;

Japan have given of this hieroglyphic. The whole world at the time of the
Chaos was enclosed within this Egg, which swam upon the surface of the waters. The Moon by virtue of her Light and her other influences,

attracted from the bottom of these waters a terrestrial substance,

which was insensibly converted to a rock, and by that means the eggs

rested upon it. The bull observing this egg, broke the shell of it, by

goring it with his horns, and so created the world, and by his breath formed the human species. This fable ma}7 in some measure be recon-

ciled with truth, by supposing that an ancient tradition had preserved

amongst

the

Japanese

some

idea

of the

creation of the

world ;

but

that being led into an error, in process of time, by the ambiguous meaning of the name of the Bull, which in the Hebrew Language is attrib-

uted to the Deity, they ascribed the creation of the world to this

animal, instead of the Supreme Being."
67 To this source may be referred the Gothic idol Seater, which

Vcrstegan, from Johannes Pomarius, thus describes. (Restitution

of Decayed Intelligence, p. 78.) First, on a pillar was placed a pearch
on the sharp prickled back whereof stood this idol. He was lean of
visage, having long hair and a long beard ; and was bareheaded and bare-

footed.

In

his

left

hand

he held

up

a

wheel ;

and

in

his

right

he

car-

ried a pail of water, wherein were flowers and fruits. His long coat was girded unto him with a towel of white linen. His standing on

the sharp fins of this fish, was to signify that the Saxons for their serving him, should pass steadfastly and without harm in dangerous and difficult places, &c.

58

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

the waves which became spirit, and was called KnnitoTco-

datsno-Mikotto ;

from

whence

sprang

six

other

spirits

08
j

who, with their wives-, were the parents of a race of

heroes, from whom proceeded the original inhabitants of

69
Japan.

They worshipped a deity who was styled the

son of the unknown god, and considered as the creator of

the two great lights of heaven.70

The caverns71 of initiation were in the immediate vicini-

ty of their temples, because one of their old deities was

said to

be born from

a cave 72 ;

and

generally in the midst

of a grove, and near to a stream of water. They were

furnished with large mirrors to signify that the imperfec-
tions of the heart are as plainly displayed to the sight of
the gods, as the worshippers behold their own image in the glass. Hence the mirror was a significant emblem of
the all-observing eye of the god Terisio Dai Sin. They were also decorated with a profusion of hieroglyphical

designs cut in white paper, as striking symbols of the

purity acquired by initiation. The term of probation for the highest degrees was
twenty years ; and even the hierophant was not competent

to perform the ceremony of initiation until he himself had been initiated the same period ; and his five assistants must necessarily have had each ten years' experience from
the date of their admission before they were competent to take this subordinate part in the initiations. The
aspirant, during the term of his trial, learned to subdue

his passions ; devoted himself to the practice of austeri-

ties, and studiously abstained from every carnal indul-

73
gence.

In the closing ceremony of preparation he was

68 The good

deity was

called Amidas ;

the evil, Jemma.

69 Kaempf. Japan, b. iii., c. 1. 70 In some of the representations of this idol he was pourtrayed sitting on the Lotos, with four arms, referring to the four seasons of the year, each of which had its appropriate emblem. In others he had seven

heads, symbolical of the seven days of the week, and thirty arms, which

represented the period or cycle of thirty years. His image was made

of solid gold, to denote his eternity and imperishable nature.
71 Asiat. Res., vol. vii., p. 422.
72 Kaempf. Japan, p. 153.
73 He was obliged to renounce the use of flesh, and to subsist wholly

upon vegetable food; to use numerous ablutions daily; and as it is expressed by Ksempfer, kneeling down on the ground, with his but-

EASTERN MYSTERIES.

59

entombed within the Pastes or place of penance ; the door of which was said to be guarded by a terrible divinity, armed with a drawn sword, as the vindictive fury or god
of punishment. During the course of his probation the aspirant sometimes acquired such a high degree of enthusiasm, as induced him to refuse to quit his confinement in
the pastes ; and to remain there until he literally perished
with famine. To this voluntary martyrdom was attached

a promise of never-ending happiness in the paradise of Amidas. Indeed the merit of such a sacrifice was bound-

less. His memory was celebrated with annual rejoicings.

The

74
initiations,

however,

were

dignified

with

an

assur-

ance of a happy immortality to all who passed through

the rites honourably and with becoming fortitude.

Amongst the amulets used on this occasion, two were

the

most

venerated

75 ;

a

ring

or

circle

of gold,

as

an

emblem

tocks to his heels, and clapping his hands over his head, to lift himself

up seven hundred and fourscore times every day.

74 Vid. Signs and Symbols. Lect. 10.

75 The amulets within their dwellings were numerous ; every disease

and misfortune having its appropriate charm. There was also one,

says Ksempfer, author quaintly

(Hist. Japan, b. v., c. 4) against poverty ;
remarks, " houses with this last mark must

and this needs be

very safe from thieves and housebreakers." But one of their mos

efficacious amulets was the ofarrai, or indulgence, which was usually

presented to the devout pilgrim who had performed his devotions at the Temple of the most high god Tensio Dai Sin, at Isge. " This

Ofarrai is a small oblong square box, about a span and a half long, two

inches broad, an inch and a half thick, made of small thin boards, and

full of thin small sticks, some of which are wrapped up in a bit of white

paper, in order to remind the pilgrim to be pure and humble, these two virtues being the most pleasing to the gods. The name of the

Temple Tai Singu, that is, the Temple of the great God, printed in

large characters, is pasted to the front of the box, and the name of the

Canusi who gave the box, for there are great numbers that carry on

this trade, to the opposite side, in a smaller character, with the noble

title of Taiju, which is as much as to say, Messengers of the gods, a

title which all the officers of Mias assume to themselves. This Ofarrai,

the pilgrims receive with great tokens of respect and humility, and

immediately tie it under their hats, in order to keep it from the rain.

They wear it just under their forehead, and balance it with another

box* or bundle of straw, much of the same weight, which they fasten

to the opposite side of the hat. Those that travel on horseback have
better conveniences to keep and to hide it. When the pilgrims are

got safe home, they take especial care for the preservation of this

Ofarrai, as being a relic of very great moment and consequence to

them." (Ksempf. Japan, b. iii., c. 4.)

60

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

of eternity, ritually consecrated, was supposed to convey

the blessing of a long and prosperous life ; and a chaplet

of consecrated flowers or sacred plants and boughs of

trees ;

which

being

suspended

about the

doors of

their

apartments, prevented the ingress of impure spirits ; and

hence their dwellings were exempted from the visitations

of disease or calamity.

61

LECTURE IV.

INITIATION IN PERSIA.

THE Persian Mysteries were indebted to Zeradusht, 1

or Zoroaster, for much of the celebrity which they at-

tained. This great reformer is said by Hyde2 and Pri-

deaux3 to be a Jew

4
by birth,

and

to

have

received

his

education in the elements of the true worship amongst

1 He was called by the Persians, Zeradusht, and by the Greeks,

Zoroaster. The question of the identity of Zeradusht and Zoroaster

will form no part of the present undertaking. Such a person, under

one of these names did actually flourish in Persia, and reform its re-
ligion about the latter end of the Babylonish captivity, and I am little concerned in this much agitated question. The curious reader

may profitably consult Hyde on the Religion of ancient Persia;

Richardson's Dissertation, Sec. 2; Prideaux Connection, p. 1, b.lv.;

and Faber's Pagan Idolatry, b. in., c. 3.

Hyde. Rel. vet. Pers., p. 314.

3 Prid. Con., vol. i., p. 213.

4 The Persian historians have shewn much anxiety to establish the

"A supernatural perfection of this great prophet's birth.

Persian

author has declared," says Sir John Malcolm, (Hist. Pers., c. vii.,) " that the religious, among the followers of Zoroaster, believed that

the soul of that holy person was created by God, and hung upon that tree, from which all that is celestial has been produced. ... I have

heard, this author observes, the wise and holy Mobud, Seeroosh de-

clare, that the father of Zoroaster had a cow, which, after tasting

some withered leaves that had fallen from the tree, never ate of any

other: these leaves being her sole food, all the milk she produced

was from them. The father of Zoroaster, whose name was Poorshasp,

was entirely supported by this milk ; and to it, in consequence, they

refer the pregnancy of his mother, whose name was Daghda. An-

other account says, this cow ate the soul of Zoroaster, as it hung to

the tree, and that it passed, through her milk, to the father of that prophet. The apparent object of this statement is to prove that Zo-

roaster was born in innocence ;

and

that

not even vegetable life was

destroyed to give him existence. When he was born, he burst into

a loud laugh, like the prince of necromancers, Merlin, and such a

light shone from his body as illuminated the whole room. This an-

cient tradition respecting Zoroaster, which we meet with in Persian

books, is mentioned by Pliny." The phosphoric property here referred

to was not confined to Zoroaster, but is recorded of many other emi-

nent personages, Christian as well as heathen.

62

HISTORY OF INITIATION

his countrymen in Babylon. He afterwards became an

attendant on the prophet Daniel, and from him received

initiation into all the mysteries of the Jewish doctrine

and practice. His abilities being of a superior cast, he

made a rapid progress in his studies, and became one of

the most learned men of his age. Perceiving that the

homage paid to his master was inspired by his extraordi-

nary endowments, Zoroaster was desirous of converting

his own acquirements to the same purpose; and as he

was not enabled to prophesy by the aid of God's Holy

Spirit, he had recourse to the study of magic, which he
prosecuted under the Chaldean philosophers, who con-

ferred upon him the privilege of initiation into their

Mysteries.

This

brought

him

into

disgrace

with

5
Daniel,

who banished him from the land, and prohibited his re-

turn on pain of death.6 He fled to Ecbatana, and giving

out that he was a prophet, set about the arduous and

dangerous

design

of

7
reforming

the

Persian

religion ;

the

character of which, by a series of gradual and impercep-

tible changes, had become subverted from its primitive

object; and the Sabian system had almost prevailed over

the ancient Magian form of worship. Professing to be a

rigid Magian, this plausible impostor, like other bold in-

novators of all ages and nations, soon found himself sur-

rounded by followers in every rank of life, who entered

into his schemes with all the enthusiasm usually excited

by novelty, and gave their most strenuous support to his
projected plan of reformation.8 He was openly patronised

6 Hyde. Eel. vet. Pers., p. 114.

6 I have given the above account of the early life of Zoroaster on

the authority of Hyde and Prideaux, although I myself entertain

some doubts of its probability. Whoever this extraordinary charac-

ter might be, it is certain that he possessed an extensive knowledge

of all the science and philosophy then known in the world, and hud

been initiated into, the peculiar mysteries of every nation, to qualify

himself for the distinguished part he was now about to act on the

great theatre of the world. I think also it is highly probable that

two distinct personages of the same name flourished in Persia at

different eras, the former perhaps the inventor of a system which the

other improved. (Vid. Justin., 1. i., c. 1. Plin., 1. xxx., c. 1. Diog.

Laert., in Proem., &c. Prid. Con., vol. i., p. 212. Stanley on the

Chaldean

Philosophy,

c.

2 ;

and Richardson's Dissertation, 2nd

edi-

tion, p. 230.)

i Pococke. Specim. Hist. Arab., p. 147.

8 His object evidently was to restore the ancient system of worship.

And he succeeded; and established a reputation which has asso-

IN PERSIA.

63

by

the

monarch,

Darius

9
Hystaspes,

who

accompanied

him into Cashmere, 10 for the purpose of completing his

preparatory studies by the instruction of the Brahmins,
from whom he had previously received initiation, 11 After

having obtained a complete knowledge of their theologi-

cal, mathematical, and astronomical system, he returned

into Bactria, arid took up his residence with his royal

patron at Balk.12
He began with their religion.

Before his time the

Persians worshipped in the open air, and resisted the in-

novation

of covered

13
temples,

long

after

they

were

adopted by other nations; for they thought that an

immaterial Being could not be confined in buildings

erected by the hand of man; and, therefore, they con-

sidered the broad expanse of heaven as the sublime cover-

ing

of a

temple

consecrated

to

the

14
Deity.

Their places

of sacrifice were of an open and very simple nature, be-

ing

elevated on

15
hills,

and

composed

principally

of

ir-

regular circles of unhewn stone, like those of the northern

nations

of

16
Europe.

They

abominated

17
images,

and

worshipped

the

Sun

and

13
Fire,

as

representatives

of

the

ciated his name with those of Confucius, Mahomet, and other suc-

cessful reformers of religious rites.

9 Hyde. Rel. vet. Pers., p. 323.

10 "Cashmere, which has often been called the terrestrial paradise,

may indeed be justly denominated the holy land of superstition. In

the Ayeen Akbery, forty-five places are stated tr> be dedicated to

Mahadeo; sixty-four to Vishnu; twenty-two to Durga: and only

three to Brahma." (Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v.. p. 861.)

Am. 11

Marcell., 1. xiii.

12 Prid. Con., vol. i., p. 220. _
13 The Persians were not singular in this custom ; for the early

Egyptians, as well as the Druids and others, worshipped in uncover-

ed temples. (Clem. Alex. Strom., 5. Lucian de Dea Syria.)

u Vid. Cic. de. Leg., 1. ii., c. 2.

15 Strabo., 1. xv.

10 By some unexplained process in the human mind, huge stones

were always objects of veneration with every people who had forsaken

the true God.

17 Herod. Clio., 1. i. Yet, "according to the Zinat o'ttawarikh,
idolatry first arose in Persia, from survivors preserving the busts and images of their deceased friends ; which, in subsequent ages, were venerated with divine honours by their posterity." (Wait. Orient.

Ant., p. 11.)
18 Even the Jews in their idolatries were not exempt from the su-
perstitious adoration of this element, a practice which they pretended to justify from their own Scriptures. God, say they, appeared in
the Cherubim over the gate of Eden as a flaming sword, (Gen. iii.,

64

HISTORY OF INITIATION

omnipresent Deity. Zoroaster succeeded in prevailing

on them to preserve the Sacred Fire, which, by burning

on the highest hills, was liable to be extinguished by

storms and tempests, in covered fire towers, 19 which were

circular buildings, with a dome, and a small orifice at the

top to let out the smoke. In these the sacred flame,

where God was supposed to reside, was kept perpetually

alive. 20

Thus

the

building

represented

the

universe ;

and

the central fire which constantly blazed within it, was

figurative of the great luminary, the Sun.

He then

proceeded

to

remodel

the

21
Mysteries ;

and

to

accomplish with greater effect this design, he retired to a circular cave or grotto in the mountains of Bokhara,22

which he ornamented with a profusion of symbolical and

astronomical23 decorations, and solemnly consecrated it to

the

middle

god

or

24
Mediator,

Mithr-As,

or

as he

was

else-

where

denominated,

the

invisible

25
Deity,

the

parent of

the universe, who was himself said to be born, or pro-

24,) and to Abraham as aflame of fire ; (Gen. xv., 17,) and again to Moses as a fire at Horeb; (Exod. iii., 2.) and to the whole assembly
of the people at Sinai, when he descended upon the mountain in fire ; (Exod. xix., 18,) and they further urged that Moses himself had told them that their God was a consuming fire, (Deut. iv., 24,) which was reechoed more than once; (Deut. ix., 3,) and thence the Jews were weak enough to worship the material substance, in lieu of the invisible and eternal God.

19 Hyde, de Eel. vet. Pers., c. 8, et passim. 20 " The Orientals make Nimrod the author of the sect of the Magi,

or

worshippers

of

fire ;

and

tell

us

that accidentally seeing fire rise

out of the earth at a great distance from him in the East, he wor-

shipped it; and appointed one Andesham to attend the fire there,

and throw frankincense into it." (Univ. Hist., vol. i., p. 90.)

21 Pococke. Spec. Hist. Arab., p. 147.

13 Porph. de Ant. Nymph., p. 254.

23 There do not exist two opinions respecting the early knowledge

of astronomy in this quarter of the globe. Indeed, Pliny says, (Nat.

Hist, 1. i., c. 26) Belus, inventor fui1 sideralis scientiae; and Belus

was the grandson of Ham.

24 The Persians were so deeply impressed with this amiable charac-

teristic of their god, that they denominated every person who acted

in the capacity of a mediator between two contending parties ; Mithras.

(Plut. Isid. et Osir., p. 43.)

25 Mithras, whether corporeal or incorporeal, was unquestionably taken by the Persians for the Supreme Deity, according to that of

Hesychius, Mi&pas 6 TCQIOTOS ev IJepoais debs, Mithras the first god

among

the

Persians ;

who was, therefore,

called

in

the

inscription,

(Apud Gruter. Thesaur. Inscrip., p. 34,) Omnipotent! Deo Mithras.

(Cudw. Intell. Sys., 1. i., c. 4.)

*

IN PERSIA.

65

duced from a cave hewn out of a rock.20 Here the Sun 7

\\as represented by a splendid gem, which, with an in-

supportable

28
lustre,

occupied

a

conspicuous

situation in

the centre of the roof; the planets were displayed in

order round him, in studs of gold glittering on a ground

of azure ;

the

zodiac

was richly

chased

in

embossed

29
gold,

in which the constellations Leo,30 arid Taurus, with a

Sun and Lunette emerging from their back31 in beaten

gold, were peculiarly resplendent. The four ages of the

world were represented by so many globes of gold, silver,

brass, and iron. The whole were decked with gems and

precious stones, and knobs of burnished gold ; and during

the celebration of the mysteries, illuminated by innume-

rable lamps which reflected a thousand different colours

and

shades

of

32
colour,

like

the

enchanting

vision

of a

celestial

33
palace.

In the centre of the cave was a marble

fountain of water,34 transparent as crystal, to supply the

numerous basons with which the grotto was furnished for

the

purpose of ablutions

and ceremonial

85
purifications.

The cavern thus ornamented, furnished, and disposed,

was

an

emblem

of

the

widely

extended

36
universe,

sup-

ported by the three grand Pillars of Eternity, fecundity,

and

37
authority;

and

the

symbols

with

which

it

was

pro-

fusely adorned referred to every element and principle in Nature. 38

26 Just. Mart. dial, cum Tryph., p. 296.

27 Porph. de Ant. Nymph., p. 265.

Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. ii., p. 28.

29 The tomb of Osymandyas in Egypt, was surrounded with a broad

circle of beaten gold, three hundred and sixty-five cubits in circum-

ference, to represent the number of days in the year. (Diod. Sic., p. 44.)

30 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 987.

31 The bull and sun were emblematical of the great father or Noah

riding

in

safety

in

the

Ark ;

for

Noah was the sun,

and the bull was

an acknowledged symbol of the Ark. (Porph. de Ant. Nymph., p.

265.) Hyde (de Rel. vet. Pers.,) says that the Mogul emperors use

this device on their coins. Sometimes, however, Leo is substituted

for Taurus.

!3 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 987.

33 See the Story of the Second Calendar in the Arabian Nights

Entertainments.

34 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 990.

35 Porph. de Ant. Nymph., p. 263.

36 Ibid., p. 254.

37 Signs and Symbols, Lect. 7.

38 And let it not be thought that these riches and this refulgent

splendour are inconsistent with probability, for the Persians of this

age were a magnificent people, and possessed an abundance of wealth,

6

66

HISTORY OF INITIATION

Every preparation being completed, Zoroaster caused

a rumour to be propagated that he had been favoured

with a celestial vision, received up into the abode of the

Most

39
High,

and

permitted to converse with that awful

Being face to face, who, he said, was encircled with a

bright

and ever

living

flame

of fire ;

that a system

of pure

worship had been revealed to him,40 which he was direct-

ed to communicate to those only who possessed sufficient

virtue to resist the allurements of the world, and were

willing to devote themselves to the study of philosophy, and the pure and unmixed contemplation of the Deity and his works.

In

the

most

secret

recesses

of

this

hallowed

41
cave,

he

now commenced the celebration of those famous rites

which exalted his name to the highest summit of cele-

brity. Every person who wished to attain a knowledge

of the Persian philosophy resorted to the Mithratic cave

for initiation. The fame of Zoroaster spread throughout

the world.

Numbers

from,

the

most

distant

42
regions

which they used with great profusion. The palace of Ecbatana, the imperial residence, is thus described: "The walls and ceilings were
overlaid with gold, ivory, and amber, exhibiting the noblest designs, wrought in the most exquisite taste. Its lofty throne of pure gold
was raised on pillars refulgent with jewels of the richest lustre. The
monarch's bed, also of pure gold, was shaded with a golden vine and
palm tree, on whose branches hung clusters of emeralds and rubies. He
reposed his head on a casket containing five thousand talents of gold, which was called the king's bolster; and his feet rested on another,
containing three thousand talents of the same metal, &c., &c."
(Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. vii., p. 481.) 30 Prid. Con., vol. i., p. 216. This was in imitation of the Jewish
legislator, who was with the Deity forty days in the mount which burned with fire. Zoroaster had become acquainted with this fact in

Babylon.
40 As the Jewish law was revealed to Moses. All these men, Zo-
roaster, Pythagoras, Plato, and others, drew alike from the sacred
fountain of truth.

41 Lucian, describing the Temple of the Syrian goddess, says : ; ' The

interior temple, or choir, has no gates, but is open in the front. Every'

body may go into the outer temple, but to the inner none are admit-

ted but the priests ; and even amongst them, only those who are sup-

posed, from their piety

and virtue, most to resemble

the deities ;

and

to whom the care of all religious matters is entrusted. Here is the

statue of the deity."

42 The commentary on the book of Zeratiisht in the Desatir, con-

tains many curious instances of these visits, which uniformly ended in

conversion.

IN PERSIA.

67

came to hearIlls Lectures ; and, it is said, even Pythagoras

travelled from Greece for initiation by this celebrated

43
philosopher.

His doctrines, however, were a continued

tissue of allegory, which none could understand but those

who were qualified by initiation ; and his system embraced

all sciences, human and divine.

To prepare the candidate for initiation, numerous lus-

trations

were

performed

with

water,

fire,

and

44
honey.

It is said by some that the aspirant went through forty

degrees

of

45
probation,

by

others eighty,^

which

ended

with a fast of fifty days' continuance.47 These intense

and protracted trials were endured in the gloomy recesses of a subterranean cavern, where he was condemned to

perpetual silence, wholly secluded from society, and

confined

amidst

cold

and

nakedness,

hunger

and

43
stripes,

accompanied with an extreme degree of refined and brutal

torture.49 The unbending severity of this stern novitiate

was

in

some

instances

attended with

fatal

50
effects;

in

others, the candidate suffered a partial derangement of

intellect ;

but the few, whose robust nerves enabled them

43 Sir W. Jones thinks

"
it

is

barely

possible

that

Pythagoras

knew

him. The Grecian sage," says he, '* must have been far advanced in

years ; and we have no certain evidence of an intercourse between the

two Philosophers." (Asiat. Res., vol. ii.) On the other hand, Dean Prideaux observes, " that they who write of Pythagoras do almost all

of them tell us, that he was the scholar of Zoroastres at Babylon, and

learned of him most of that knowledge which afterwards rendered

him so famous in the West. So saith Apuleius, and so say Jambli-

chus, Porphyry, and Clemens Alexandrinus." (Connect., v. i., p. 228.)

44 Luciau in Necyom.

45 Non. Dion., p. 297.

40 Porph. de Abstin., p. 150.

47 Nicaetas cited by the Abbe Banier.

Myth.

Vid. Deut. ix. 18. 5

48 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 992. 49 " The dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cru-

elty." (Psalm Ixxiv., 20.)
60 When a candidate died under the infliction of these rigid penances,

an event by no means uncommon, his body was cast into an inner

cavern, and he was never more heard of. In the fifth century of

Christianity, according to the report of Socrates, a Christian writer,

(Hist. Eccles., 1. ii.,c. 2.) "the Christians of Alexandria having dis-

covered a cavern that had been consecrated to Mithras, but for a long

period closed up, resolved to explore it. and examine what remnants

of that superstition

it contained ;

when to their

astonishment,

the

principal thing they found in it was a great quantity of human skulls

and other bones of men that had been thus sacrificed which were ;

brought out, publickly exposed, and excited the utmost horror in the

inhabitants of that great city." (Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 965.)

68

HISTORY OF INITIATION ..

to rise superior to the most extreme suffering of a fully

extended probation, were eligible to the highest honours

and dignities; and received a degree of veneration to that which was paid to the supernal deities.

equal
But

the unhappy novice, who suffered his courage to forsake him through excess of fatigue or torture, was rejected
with the strongest marks of infamy and contempt, and

for ever accounted profane and excluded from the rites.

The successful probationer, at the expiration of his

novitiate, was brought forth into the cavern of initiation ,

where he entered on the point of a sword presented to his naked left breast, by which he was slightly wounded,51

and then he was ritually prepared for the approaching

ceremony.

He

was

crowned

with

52
olive,

anointed

with

oil

of

53
ban,

and

armed with

enchanted

armour54

by his

guide, who was the representative of Simorgh, a mon-

strous

55
griffin,

and

an

important

agent in the machinery

51 Tertull. apud Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 991. 52 k 'The olive in- the mysteries was commemorative of the olive

branch brought back to Noah by the dove ; and it was the propitious

omen that the patriarch and his family would speedily emerge from the

gloom of the Ark to the light of day ; that they would each soon be

able

to

exclaim, I have

escaped

an

evil ;

I

have

found

a

better

lot.

With a similar allusion to the history of the Deluge, the priests 'of

Mithras were styled Hierocoraces, or sacred Ravens ; and the oracular

priestesses of Hammon, Peleiades, or Doves; while in consequence of
the close connection of the dove and the olive, a particular species of

that tree was denominated Columbas." (Fab. Mys. Cab., c. 10, with

authorities.)
53 Berhni Kattea. The oil of ban is the balsam of Bezoin. (Wait.

Orient. Ant., p. 194.)
65 "The Simorgh," says

Wait.,

t54 Rich. Dissert., p. 170.
(Orient. Ant., p. 155) " whose name

implies that it is of the size of thirty birds, appears to have been a

species of Eagle." In Richardson's Dictionary it is thus described : " It corresponds in some respects with the idea of the Phoenix, one

only of the species being supposed to exist, and like the Griffin in

shape and monstrous size. It is fancied to be rational, to have the

gift of speech, and to have reigned as queen on the fabulous mountain

of Kaf. The Caharman namah gives an account of a conversation which

that hero had with her, in which she informed him of her having

lived several ages before Adam, and seen many wonderful revolutions

of different species of beings that inhabited the globe before the cre-

ation of man. It is described by naturalists as a creature whose

name is known, its body unknown ;" and is probably but a duplicate

of the Arabian

Roc, (Vid. Arabian Nights'

Entertainments ;

Tales of

Sinbad) for

the

Arabian word for

the

Simorgh

was

Rakshi ;

(Rich.

Dissert., p. 174) the Egyptian Phanix (Ovid Metam., 1. xv., 392) or

the Indian Garuda.

(Asiat.

Res.,

vol.

i.
3

p.

248.)

IN PERSIA.

69

of Persian mythology, and furnished with talismans56 that

he might be ready to encounter all the hideous monsters f
raised up by the Dives to impede his progress to perfection.57 Introduced into an inner apartment he was

purified with fire and water,58 and solemnly put through
the SEVEN59 STAGES of initiation.60 From the precipice

where he stood, he beheld a deep and dangerous vault

into which a single false step might precipitate him down

to

the

"throne

of dreadful

61
necessity,"

which

was

an

emblem of those infernal regions through which he was

about to pass. Threading the circuitous mazes of the

gloomy cavern, he was soon awakened from his trance

of thought, by seeing the sacred fire, at intervals, flash

through its recesses to illuminate his path; sometimes

bursting from beneath his feet; sometimes descending

on his head in a broad sheet of white and shadowy flame.

Amidst the admiration thus inspired, his terror was

excited

by

the

distant

yelling

of

ravenous

beasts ;

the

roaring of lions, the howling of wolves, the fierce and

56 u rj^ mog j. fam0us talismans, which rendered the heroes of Per-

sian romance proof against the arms and magic of the Dives, (or

wicked genii) were muhur Solimani, or the seal of Solomon Jared, the

fifth, monarch of the world, which gave to its possessors the command

of the elements, demons, and of every created thing ; the Siper, or

buckler of Jan-ben- Jan, more famous in the east than the shield

of Achilles

among

the

Greeks ;

the Jebeli, or the impenetrable

cuirass; and the Tigh atish, or the flaming sword." (Dissert., p.

272.)

57 The preparation for these encounters consisted of spells as a

defence against enchantment, accompanied with ceremonies differing

little from those practised by our European knights errant, when set-

ting out on their adventures to rescue distressed damsels from the

power of necromancers or giants. (Vid. Rich. Dissert., p. 280.) 58 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 991. 69 This is represented as a high ladder with seven steps or gates.

(Orig. con. Gels., 1. iv. Vid. Signs and Symbols, Lect. 8.) The use

of the number Seven forms an important feature in all the institutions

of antiquity, whether their tendency be idolatrous or otherwise. The

reference might probably be to the seven antediluvians who were saved with Noah in the ark. The conjecture bears strong marks of truth

from the extraordinary fact, that almost every ancient idolatrous nation

addressed the rites of divine worship to the seven hero-gods. This

remarkable number will be copiously illustrated in Lect. 7. 60 This part of the ceremony might probably bear some allusion to

the soul toiling through the metempsychosis towards perfection and

everlasting

beatitude ;

for

Hyde

informs

us,

(De

Rel. vet.

Pers., p.

254) that this doctrine was shadowed out in the Persian mysteries.

01 Celsus, cited by Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. iv., p. 645.

70

HISTORY OF INITIATION

threatening

bark

of

62
dogs.

Enveloped in blackest dark-

63
ness,

he

was

at

a

loss

where

to

turn

for

safety

;

but was

impelled rapidly forward by his attendant, who maintained

an unbroken silence, towards the quarter from whence

the appalling sounds proceeded ; and at the sudden opening of a door he found himself in a den of wild

64
beasts,

dimly

enlightened

with

a

single

lamp.

His

conductor

exhorted

him

to

65
courage,

and

he

was

imme-

diately attacked, amidst the most tremendous uproar, by

the initiated

in

the

forms

of

66
lions,

tigers,

wolves,

grif-

67
fins,

and

other

monstrous

beasts

;

fierce

dogs

appeared

to rise from the earth, and with dreadful bowlings endea-

voured to

overwhelm

the

aspirant

with

alarm

68 ;

and how

bravely soever his courage might sustain him in this

unequal conflict, he seldom escaped unhurt.

Being hurried through this cavern into another, he

A wras once more shrouded in darkness.

dead silence

succeeded, and he was obliged to proceed with deliberate
step, meditating on the danger he had just escaped, and smarting under the wounds he had received. His atten-

62 In the Zoroastrian Oracles, these dogs are said to spring out of the earth, and bay tremendously at the aspirant.
63 Darkness was a symbol of secrecy, and hence it was adored, and hailed with three cheers. (Vid. Signs and Symbols, Lect. 6.)
64 To such miserable expedients were the idolaters reduced to perpetuate their system, that even these farcical representations were encouraged to give effect to the mysterious celebrations.
65 Rich. Dissert., p. 170.
66 Mr. Maurice thinks that real lions and other savage beasts were introduced (Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 997) ; but this terrible conjecture must be admitted with great reluctance, from the imminent danger with which it would have been accompanied.
67 Vid. Signs and Symbols, Lect. 8. 68 Pletho, in his notes on the magic oracles of Zoroaster, says Mons, de Gebelin speaks also of the dogs which are mentioned by Virgil. It was the custom, he adds, in the celebration of the Mysteries, to place before the aspirant, phantoms in the figure of dogs, and other monstrous spectres and apparitions. (Monde Primitif., torn, iv., p. 336. Vid. also Warb. Div. Leg., vol. i.. p. 203.) Apollonius speaks of the same thing:
Brimo up rises from the land of shades : ATSnonadkgeugsalrewdarmetiahnteihgr'tdqouriecnehnoe,saktcehanesthbiaodudegiohsusmsaclduorgglls'adroefr.ohuenlld their hair, Rend the dark welkin with incessant yell ; The heaving ground beneath her footsteps shakes, Loud shriek the Naiads of the neighboring lakes ; &c.
FAWKES.

IN PERSIA.

71

tion, however, was soon roused from these reflections

and directed to other dangers whicli appeared to threaten.
An undefined rumbling noise was heard in a distant range
of caverns, which became louder and louder as he ad-

vanced, until the pealing thunder69 seemed to rend the

solid rocks

and

burst

the

caverns

around him 70 ;

and the

69 They were probably acquainted with a chemical process to imitate thunder and lightning. (Philostrat. Vita Apollon., 1. 2, c.

33.)

70 This was intended to represent the tremendous contests between

the Peris and the Dives, which shook the earth to its foundation.

These fabulous struggles for preeminence ran through the whole system

of Persian romance? which indeed derives its principle attraction from

the use of this machinery. In general the Peris or good genii have the superiority, but " when they are in danger of being overpowered

by their foes, they solicit the assistance of some mortal hero; and to

put them on a footing of prowess with the gigantic dives, or evil genii, he is armed with enchanted talismans, and mounted on some tremen-

dous monster. One of the most famous adventurers in fairy land is

Tahmuras, an ancient Persian king. The Peris honour him with a

splendid embassy ; and the Dives, who dread him, send also another.

He consults the griffin Simorgh ; she speaks all languages and knows

future events.

She

counsels "him to

aid

the

Peris ;

informs

him

of the

dangers ho will encounter, and gives him instructions how to proceed.

She

offers

her

assistance

to

conduct him

to

Jinnistan ;

and

as

a token

of friendship, pulls some feathers from her breast, with which he
ornaments his helmet. He then mounts the Simorgh, and armed with

the buckler of Jan-ben-Jan, crosses the dark abyss which mortals can-

not pass without supernatural assistance.

He arrives at Kaf he de;

feats

Arzshenk ;

and

also another Dive still more fierce, called

Dem-

rush ;

whose

residence is described

as a gloomy

cavern, where

he

is

surrounded with vast piles of wealth amassed by plunder. Here

Tahmuras, amongst other rich spoils, finds a fair captive, the Peri
Merjan, whom the Dives had carried off, and her brothers had long searched for in vain. He chains the vanquished demons in the centre

of the

mountain ;

sets Merjan at liberty ;

and then

in the true

spirit

of knight errantry, flies, at the Peris request, to the attack of another

powerful

Dive, called

Houdkonz ;

but

here

Tahmuras

falls.

In the

Shah name the celebrated Rostam, many ages afterwards, engages the

Dive Arzshenk, who had escaped from the chains of Tahmuras, and kills him after a fierce battle. Arzshenk is there painted with a body

somewhat human, and the head of a bull, which Rostam strikes off

at a blow. The Dive Munheras is wounded with an arrow in the

mouth by Gershab, the last king of the Pishdadian dynasty ; and he

is afterwards put to death by Sohrab, the son of Rostam. In the first

encounter he has the head of a hog; but in the next he is pictured as

a bifrons ;

one

side

resembling the

head of a lion, the other that of

a

wild boar. Rostam, who is considered as the Hercules of Persia,

among many other Dives, dragons, and enchanters whom he destroys,
kills a demon called the Dive Sepid; and Father Angelo mentions

having seen a stupendous monument in the midst of a plain, near the

72

HISTORY OF INITIATION

vivid

and

continued

flashes

of

71
lightning,

in

streaming

sheets of fire, rendered visible the flitting shades72 of

avenging genii, who, frowning displeasure, appeared to

threaten with summary destruction these daring intruders
into the privacy of their hallowed abodes.73 Scenes like
these were multiplied with increasing horror, until nature
could no longer endure the trial ; and when the aspirant

Was ready to sink under the effects of exhaustion and mental agony, he was conveyed into another apartment

to recruit his strength. Here, a vivid illumination was

suddenly introduced, and his outraged feelings were soothed by the sound of melodious music,74 and the

flavour of grateful perfumes. Seated at rest in this

apartment, his guide explained the elements of those
invaluable secrets which were more fully developed when his initiation was complete.

Having pronounced himself disposed to proceed through

the remaining ceremonies, a signal was given by his con-

ductor^ and three priests immediately made their appear-

ance ;

one of whom,

after a long

and

solemn pause, cast

a

living

75
serpent

into

his

bosom

as

a

token

of regener-

76
ation;

and

a

private

door being

opened,

there

issued

forth such howlings and cries of lamentation and despair,
as struck him with new and indescribable emotions of

terror. He turned his eyes with an involuntary motion
to the place from whence these bewailings appeared to proceed, and beheld in every appalling form, the tor-

city of Fehelion, between Shuster and Shiraz, supposed to be com-

memorative

of this combat ;

which was cut into a quadrangular fortifi-

cation, with such regularity, that it had the appearance of being formed

of one entire stone." (Rich. Diss., p. 170, 171, 172, and see Signs and

Symbols, Lect. 8.)

71 Maur. Ind. Ant, vol. v., p. 996. 72 It has been thought that these illusions gave the first impulse to

the practice of magic. (Wait. Orient Ant., p. 135.)
?3 This was the emblematical FIERY GATE of heaven through which
souls descended in transmigration, under the conduct of Mercury, the

celestial messenger of the gods. (Horn. Odyss., 1. 24. Virg. uEn.,'1. 4. Lucian. dial. Mai. et Merc.)
74 Zoroaster introduced music into the Persian Mysteries which gave them a more imposing effect. (Strabo., 1. 17.)
75 Sometimes a serpent of ductile gold was used; but I am in-

clined to think from the analogy of other nations, that the snake was

generally alive. Compare Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 992, with vol.

vi -> P- 209.

TO g ee the

IN PERSIA.

73

ments of the wicked in Hades.77 Turning from this scene

of woe, he was passed through some other dark caverns

and

73
passages ;

until,

having

successfully

threaded

the

labyrinth,

consisting

of

six79

spacious

80
vaults,

connected

by

winding

81
galleries,

each

opening

with

a

narrow

stone

portal, the scene of some perilous adventure ; and having,

by the exercise of fortitude and perseverance, been tri-

umphantly borne through this accumulated mass of

difficulty and danger ; the doors of the seventh vault, or

Sacellum, were thrown open, and his darkness was

changed

into

82
light.

He was admitted into the spa-

77 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. vii., p. 675.

78 Tale of Eustam, in Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 328.

79 In conformity with these seven subterranean caverns, the Persians held the doctine of seven classes of demons. First, Ahriman,

their chief; second, the spirits who inhabit the most distant regions

of

the air ;

third, those who

traverse

the dense

and

stormy regions

which are nearer the earth, but still at an immeasurable distance ;

fourth, the malignant and unclean spirits who hover over the surface

of the earth; fifth, the spirits of the "vasty deep," which they agitate with storms and tempests; sixth, the subterranean demons who dwell in charnel vaults and caverns, termed G-hools, who devour

the corrupted tenants of the grave, and excite earthquakes and convulsions in the globe ; and seventh, the spirits who hold a solemn

reign of darkness in the centre of the earth. (Vid. Maur. Ind. Ant.,
vol. iv., p. 642.) From this doctrine probably emanated the Maho-

metan belief of seven hells, or stages of punishment in the infernal

regions, (Vid. Signs highest of which the

and Symbols, p. Table of Fate is

153,) and seven suspended, and

heavens, in the " guarded from

demons, lest they should change or corrupt anything thereon. Its

length

is

so great, as

is

the

space

between

heaven

and

earth ;

its

breadth equal to the distance from the east to the west; and it

is made of one pearl. The divine pen was created by the finger of

God ;

that is also

of pearls, and

of

such length

and

breadth

that

a

swift horse could scarcely gallop round it in five hundred years ! It

is so endowed, that, self-moved, it writes all things, past, present,

and to come.

Light

is

its

ink ;

and the language which it uses, only

the angels can understand."

(Maracci,

in Southey's Thalaba,

vol.
ii.,

p. 247.) The seven hells of the Jewish Rabbies were founded on the

seven names of hell contained in their Scriptures. (Basnage, Hist.

Jews, p. 389.) All these fancies might safely date their origin from

the hebdomadal division of time observed by the Creator, and enjoined

on man by divine authority. 30 Signs and Symbols, Lect. 8. 81 Porph. de Ant. Nymph., p. 262.

82 Ibid., p. 253. The progress of the candidate through the seven

stages of initiation being in a circle, referred to the course of the planets

round the

sun ;

or more

probably,

the

apparent motion

of

the

sun

him-

self, which is accomplished by a movement from east to west by the

south.

'

*," i

74

HISTORY OF INITIATION

cious and lofty cavern already described, which was

denominated the sacred grotto of Elysium. This con-

secrated

place

was

brilliantly

83
illuminated,

and

sparkled

A with gold and precious stones.

splendid sun84 and

starry system emitted their dazzling radiance, and moved

hi order to the symphonies of heavenly music.85 Here

sat the Archimagus in the East, elevated on a throne

of burnished gold, crowned with a rich diadem decorated

with

myrtle

86
boughs,

and

habited

in

a flowing

tunic of

a bright

cerulean

tincture 87' round ;

him

were

arranged

in

solemn

order

the

88
Presules,

and

dispensers

of

the

mys-

teries ;

forming altogether a reverend assembly, which

covered the awe-struck aspirant with a profound feeling

of veneration ;

and, by an

involuntary

impulse,

fre-

quently produced an act of worship. Here he was

received with congratulations ; and after having entered

into the usual engagements for keeping secret the sacred

rites of Mithras, the sacred WORDS were entrusted to

him, of which the ineffable TETRACTYS, or Name of God

was the chief.

The aspirant, having surmounted the dangers of initia-
tion, now claimed investiture 89 and instruction. An

abundance of amulets and talismans were delivered to

him ;

and he was even taught the

secret of constructing

them, that he might be exempt from all assailing dan-

gers, both in his person

and

90
property.

Every emblem

83 The radiance which illuminates the celestial abodes, gave rise to

many superstitions in different nations. I quote one from D'Ohson as a specimen : " The night Leileth-ul-cadr, is considered as being

particularly consecrated to ineffable mysteries. There is a prevail-

ing opinion, that a thousand secret and invisible prodigies are per-

formed on this night ; and that all inanimate beings then pay their

adoration to God. It has not, however, pleased him (says the legend)

to reveal it to the faithful; but it is universally, agreed, that some-

times on this night, the firmament opens for a moment or two, and the

glory of God appears visible to the eyes of those who are so happy as

to behold it ; at which juncture, whatever is asked of God by the 'for-

tunate beholders of the mysteries of that critical moment, is infallibly

granted." Southey has a long note on this subject. (Thalaba,

book ii.)

81 Apul. Metam., 1. 1.

Strabo, 1. 17.

* Herod. 1. 1.

7 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol v., p. 1004.

58 Hyde de Eel. vet. Pers., p. 380.

80 The ceremony of investiture is described in Signs and Symbols,

Lect. 10.

These potent auxiliaries were very numerous, and applied to

IN PERSIA.

75

displayed

to

his view by

the

divine

01
lighfs

in

this

vast

and

diversified

92
cavern,

every

incident

which

excited

his

every transaction
of many of them

in life,
from

how trivial soever. I subjoin an enumeration
Richardson. (Dissert., p. 275.) " Nushret

was an amulet for preventing or curing insanity, or other malady.

Keble, a philtre by which necromancers pretended to reconcile enemies. Ghezshghaw were tufts made of the hair of sea-cows, and hung round the necks of horses to defend them from fascination. Shebarik, a tree of which they make amulets for the same purpose.

Azimet, an amulet, incantation, or spell against serpents, disease, or

other evil. Sulwanet, shells, rings, or beads used as amulets. Sul-

wan denotes water taken from the grave of a dead man, poured from

a kind of shell upon the earth, which they drink to the health of a per-

son as a cure for love, or any severe affliction. Atfet or Antefet, small

beads hung by women round their necks, as a charm to gain the affection of lovers. Akret, a spherical amulet worn by some women round

their waists to prevent pregnancy; and by others to favour a conception. Akhzet, an amulet in form of a knot, which women wear to

keep their husbands faithful. Nirenk, nirek, hemail tawiz, mikad,

mutemmim, gezz, kherez, kehal, wejihet, rab, kyrzehlct, mawiz, berim,

signify

amulets

made

of

shells, beads,

tufts

of wool or

dead

hair^

men's bones, &c. Neju, ferhest, reki, shuh, latet, nezret, %c., imply

fascination or malignant eyes. Kherchare -is an ass's head placed on

a pole in a garden, &c., to guard against fascination. Bazur and

bazubend signify amulets or any kind of ligatures used in enchantment, because they are in general fastened round the arm, which the

latter word implies. Cheshm benam, an amulet for averting the fas-

cination of malignant eyes." Thus far Richardson, but I beg leave to quote a very curious passage on this subject from Odoricus, in Hak-

luyt, cited by Southey, in his fine poem of Thalaba, (vol. i., although the note is already somewhat too much extended.

p. 114,) " In the

country called Panten or Tathalamasin, there be canes called Cas-

san, which overspread the earth like grasse, and out of every knot of

them spring foorthe certaine branches, which are continued upon the

ground almost for the space of a mile. In the sayd canes there are

found certaine stones, one of which stones whosoever carryeth about
with him, cannot be wounded with any yron; and therefore the men

of that country, for the most part, carry such stones with them,
whithersoever they goe. Many also cause one of the armes of their
children while they are young, to be launced, putting one of the
sayd stones into the wound, healing also and closing up the sayd wound with the powder of a certain fish, (the name whereof I do not know,) which powder doth immediately consolidate and cure the sayd
wound. And by the vertue of these stones, the people aforesaid doe,

for the most part, triumph both on sea and land." 91 This display was denominated Zvroyia, as we learn from Psellus

in his Notes on the Oracles of Zoroaster.

9-2 He was taught the hieroglyphical character, or sacred cipher, in

which their mysterious dogmata were perpetuated; specimens of

which, according to SirW. Jones, (Asiat. Res., vol. ii., p. 57,) still

remain.

76

HISTORY OF INITIATION

astonishment during the tedious process of initiation,
was now converted to a moral purpose, and explained

in a series of disquisitions, calculated to inspire an ir-

revocable attachment, alike to the mysteries, and to the

persons of their administrators.
The candidate was taught that the benign influence

of the superior light derived from initiation, irradiates the mind with some rays of the divinity ; and inspires it

with a degree of knowledge which is unattainable with-

out this distinguished privilege. He was instructed to

adore93 the

consecrated fire, the gift of the

94
deity,

as

his

visible residence. 95 He was taught the existence of two

independent and equally powerful principles, the one

essentially good, the

other

irreclaimably

evil

9G
;

and the

cosmogony was this : Ormisda, the supreme source of

light

and

97
truth,

created

the

world

at

six

different

98
periods.

First, he made the heavens; second, the

waters; third, the earth; fourth, trees and plants; fifth,

93 Kamsay on the Theology of the Pagans, p. 276. Hyde, 9* J-JLJ VAC, JELleiClJ.L. vVeOtL. P_Le0r1sO.., JpJ.. 1J.6U0U.. 5 The throne of the deity was believed to be in the Sun, (Hyde ut

supra, p. 161,) which was the Persian paradise; but he was equally

supposed to be resident in the Fire.

Krishna
_says,

"

God is

in

the fire

of the

In the altar ;

Bhagvat Geeta, and some of the

(p. 54,) devout,

with their offerings, direct their worship unto god in the fire." The

priest alone was allowed to

appear in the presence

of

this

Shekinah ;

and he was obliged first to purify himself by washing from head to foot,

and being clothed in a white garment, as an emblem of ceremonial

cleanness. He then approached the sacred element with the utmost

veneration ;

was careful not to pollute it by the use of any metal tool,

but used an instrument made of the purest wood divested of its bark. Even his breath was supposed to convey pollution ; (Vallancey, Anc.

Hist. IreL, p. 203,) and, therefore, while offering up his petitions for the public good, he covered his mouth with a linen cloth to prevent the possibility of profanation. The veneration of the Persians for

Fire

was
^so

unbounded, that

its

pollution

was

strictly

forbidden,

even in private dwellings ; the richest noble, equally with the meanest

slave,

would

not

dare

so

much

as

to

spit

in

the

fire ;

and if his dwell-

ing, aud (
element/ of water,

every thing it contained were perishing by this he was prohibited from controlling its progress

devouring by the use

which was also held sacred by the people, and was allowed

merely to smother it by throwing earth, stones, or any other similar

anticombustible substance on it. The Parsis tise the same superstition. (Strabo, 1. 15.

of Guzerat still pracPerron's Zendavcsta,

vol. 11., p. 567. Notes on Richardson's Dissertation, p. 277 ) Vid. Berhani Kattea, cited by Wait. Orient. Ant , p 85.

Porph. in vit. Pyth.

te Perron. Zendavesta, vol. iii., p. 384. Prid. Con., vol. i., p. 225.

IN PERSIA. >

77

animals ; and sixth, man," or rather a being compounded

of a man and a bull. This newly created being lived in

a state of purity and happiness for many ages, but was

at last poisoned by the temptations of a subtle serpent-
genius, named Ahriman, 100 who inhabited the regions of

darkness,

and

was

the

author

of

101
evil;

and his ascend-

ency upon earth became at length so great as to create
a powerful rebellion against the creator, Ormisda; by whom, however, he was at length subdued. To coun-

teract the effect of this renunciation of virtue, another

pure being was created, compounded, as before, of a man

and a bull, called Taschter, or Mithras,102 by whose in-

tervention, with

the

assistance

of three

103
associates,

a

flood of waters was produced to purify the earth, by

prodigious showers of rain, each drop as large as the
A head of an ox, which produced a general lustration.

tempestuous wind, which blew for three successive days

from the same quarter, dried the waters from the face of

the

earth ;

and when

they were

completely

subsided, a

new germ was introduced, from which sprang the present

race of mankind.104

This theogony was also inculcated. Ormisda created

six benevolent gods, and Ahriman formed the same num-

ber of malignant spirits, who were always engaged in a

violent contention for pre-eminence. The evil spirits at

length succeeded in gaining the dominion over one half

of the year, which the celestials deities were contented

to

resign

to

their

105
superintendence;

which was

explained

by a reference to the

change and variety of the

seasons ;

59 " Mezdam," says the prophet, "separated man from the other

animals, by the distinction of a soul, which is a free and independent

substance, without a body or any thing material, indivisible and

without position, by which he obtaineth the glory of the angels. The

Lord of Being created his servant free; if he doeth good he gaineth

heaven; if evil, he becometh an inhabitant of hell." (Desatir. Book

of Abad.

10 Diog. Laert. in Procem.

101 This Persian doctrine was the foundation of the Manichean

heresy, which vexed the Christian Church from the fifth to the ninth

century. (Vid. Bower. Hist, of Popes, vol. ii., p. 19.) '* This being was denominated Mtoiroe &eoe, and referred to the sun.
103 Here we find another evident duplicate of Noah and his triple

offspring.
104 Vid. Perron's Zendavesta. vol. iii. Hyde, Rel. vet. Pers.,
p. 160. Bryant Annal., vol. iii., and Fab. Pag. Idol., b. iii., c. 3.
105 Plut. de. Isid. et Osir., p. 63.

78

HISTORY OF INITIATION

and represented the manner in Which the year was gov-

erned by the successive recurrence of summer and winter,

or

light

and

darkness ;

the

six

summer,

and

the

like

number of winter months,106 pointing also to the twelve

signs of the zodiac, which were emblazoned on the roof

of the Mithratic cavern. The mysterious emblem which

m served to typify these perpetual contests for superiority

was, two

l(f7
serpents

contending for

an

egg,

the former

being' symbolical of the powers of light and darkness,

and the latter of the world. 109

On these legends many wild and improbable fictions

were engrafted. The Archimagus related to the initiated

how the world had been seven times created and destroy-

110
ed;

how

Simorgh,

the

omniscient

111
griffin,

who

had

106 Thus every month was under the peculiar guardianship of a
genius, from whom it received its name ; (Rich. Dissert., p. 183,) and
a particular day of each month was dedicated to him by festal rites
and ceremonies.

107 The deity was frequently represented as involved in the folds

of a serpent, (Mont. Ant. Supplem., p. 211,) in reference to the solar

superstition, for the serpent was a symbol of the sun, and hence it

was often depicted in the form of a ring with its tail in its mouth, as

a striking emblem of the immortality of the deity, for whom this

reptile was often substituted. Much may be seen on this subject in

Signs and Symbols, Lect. 2.

108 Vid. Montfauc. 1'Antiq. Expl., torn, ii., p. 2, where is a plate of

this emblem, which has been copied by Maurice into the fourth

volume of his Indian Antiquities. 109 Calmet says, that the Persians " offered sacrifices of thanks-

giving

to

Oromazes ;

and

to

Ahrimanes sacrifices to ?

avert

misfor-

tunes. They took an herb called Omomi, which they bruised in a

mortar,

invoking

at the

same

time

the

god

of

hell

and

darkness ;

they

mingled with it the blood of a wolf which they had killed, and carried

this composition to a place where the rays of the sun never entered,

here they threw it down and left it." (Diet, in v. Demons.) u Orient. Coll., vol. i., p. 119. This doctrine is set forth in an

ancient Persian book, called the Desatir, which has been recently discovered and translated into English. "In the beginning of each Grand Period, a new order of things commenceth in the lower world.
And, not, indeed, the very forms, and knowledge and events of the Grand Period that hath elapsed, but others precisely similar to them
will again be produced. And every grand period that cometh, re-
sembleth from beginning to end the grand period that is past. At the conclusion of a grand period, only two persons are left in the world, one man and one woman ; all the rest of mankind perish : and hence mankind derive their origin from the woman and man who survive, and from whose loins numbers issue in the new grand period." (Book of Abad, and Commentary.)
111 Rich. Dissert., p. 170. "In Mr. Fox's collection of Persic

IN PERSIA.

79

existed through all these revolutions of ages, revealed to a hero, called Caherman, 112 that the first inhabitants were

the Peris, or good beings, and the Dives, or wicked

113
ones,

who

waged

eternal war

with

each

114
other,

arid

though the

former were

the

most

115
powerful,

their

con-

tests for superiority were sometimes so violent as to

throw

nature

into

116
convulsion,

and

cover

the

universe

with

117
dismay.

Then succeeded an animated account of

books, says Southey in a note on Thalaba, (B. 11.) is an illuminated copy of Ferdusi, containing a picture of the Simorgh, who is there

represented as an ugly dragon-looking sort of bird. I should be loth to believe that she has so bad a physiognomy ; and as, in the same

volume, there are. blue and yellow horses, there is good reason to
conclude that this is not a genuine portrait. When the genius of
the lamp is ordered by Aladin to bring a roc's egg and hang it up in

the hall; he is violently enraged, and exclaims, Wretch, wouldst thou
have me hang up my master .' From the manner in which rocs are
usually mentioned in the Arabian Tales, the reader feels as much
surprised at this indignation as Aladin was himself. Perhaps the
original may have been Simorgh instead of roc. To think, indeed, of

robbing the* Simorgh' s nest, either for the sake of drilling the eggs,

or of poaching them, would in a believer, whether Shiah or Sunni,
be the height of human impiety." i2 Vid. Caherman name.
us u Those who wish for success to their works of this life, worship

the Devatas" (Dives.) (Bhagvat Geeta, p. 52.)

14 D'Herbelot in voc. Peri. Kich. Dissert., p. 169.

115 The following description of meeting between two of these

imaginary beings, from the Arabian Night's Entertainments, will
show this fact. " As Maimoune mounted high to the middle region of

the air, she heard a great flapping of wings, which made her fly that

way ; and when she approached, she knew it was a genie who made

the noise ;

but it was one of those

that

are

rebellious

against

God.

As for Maimoune, she belonged to that class whom the great Solo-

mon compelled to acknowledge him. This genie, whose name was

Danhasch, knew Maimoune, and was seized with fear, being sensible

how much power she had over him by her submission to the Almighty.

He would fain have avoided her, but she was so near, he must either

fight or yield." (Amours of Carmaralzaman and Badoura.) 116 There is a good account of these Peris and Dives in Calmet's
Historical Dictionary under the word Daemons, but too diffuse for

insertion here.

117 "The Peris are described as beautiful and benevolent, and

though guilty of errors which had offended Omnipotence, they are

supposed, in consequence of their penitence, still to enjoy distin-

guished marks of divine favour. The Dives, on the contrary, are

depicted as hideous in

form, and

malignant

in

mind ;

differing

only

from the infernal demons in not being confined to hell ; but roaming

for ever around the world to scatter discord and wretchedness among

the sons of Adam. In the Peris we find a wonderful resemblance to

80

HISTORY OF INITIATION

the valour and prowess of certain Persian heroes, who

dissolved enchantments, vanquished giants, destroyed
the power of magicians, and made hostile fairies obedient to their will. And at the conclusion of the ceremony of

initiation; as a last, great secret, the initiated were

taught that important prophecy of Zoroaster, which he had learned in his travels through India and Egypt ;

that, in future times, a great prophet should appear in
the world, the desire of all nations, who should be the

son of a pure virgin, and whose advent should be pro-
claimed to the world, by a new and brilliant star in the

heavens, shining with celestial brightness at mid-day.
The newly initiated candidate was strictly enjoined to

follow the direction of this supernatural appearance, if it
should happen in his day, until he had found the new born babe, to whom he was commanded to offer rich

gifts and sacrifices, and to fall prostrate before him with
devout humility as the Creator of the world. 118

This celebrated system, like all others which have not
the revealed Word of Gro'd for their basis, branched out

into numerous abominable rites, to sanction the vicious

practices of potent individuals, whose countenance was

found necessary or useful to aid the extension of its

schemes; and thus the initiations gradually became so

corrupt as to serve as a cloak for licentious indulgences.

The mysteries being connected with the services of

119
religion,

the

miserable jugglers

who

profited

by mag-

nifying the absurd fears of superstition, carried on the

deception to its utmost extent, and to the latest moment

the fairies of the

European

nations ;

and the Dives or Genies differ

little from the giants and savages of the middle ages ; the adventures

of the eastern heroes breathe all the wildness of achievement recorded

of

the

knights

in

Gothic

romance ;

and the doctrine of enchantments

in both, seem to claim one common source." (Bich. Dissert.,

p. 167.)
18
Abulfarag. 382.

Hyst. Dynast., p. 54.

Hyde, Eel. vet. Pers., p.

19 In the concluding period of the Jewish history, we find the Temple at Jerusalem profaned by these abominations, even to the
preliminary ceremony of public prostitution in the holy porch. (2 Mac. yi., 4.) The Jews were compelled to participate in the rites of the Dionysiaca, and to appear in the public processions of the Bacchantes as Periphallia, bearing ivy branches ; for which, indeed, they had been prepared by their own custom of the ooxoyooia, or carrying vine branches at the feast of tabernacles.

IN PERSIA.

81

of their powers. Here the phallus was a consecrated

symbol, which led to the grossest obscenities. To con-

ciliate the Persian monarchs and nobility, who were

much

addicted

to

incestuous

connexions

120 ;

these

were

at

length sanctioned, and even encouraged in the mys-

teries 121 ;

and

it

became an axiom

in religion,

that

the

produce of a son and a mother was the best calculated

for

the

office

of a

122
priest.

120 Vid. Fab. Mys. Cab., vol. i., p. 182.

121 "The Persians many their mothers, the Egyptians their sisters;

and Chrysippus, in his treatise of Policy, asserts, that the father may

lie with the daughter, the mother with the son, and the brother with

the sister ;

but Plato more universally saith, that

all

wives

ought to

be in common." (Stanley's Lives, vol. iii., p. 94.)

A 122 Strabo, 1. 15. Diog. Laert. in Proosm.

most appalling

description of the abominations necessarily resulting from such per-

nicious tenets is displayed in the Apocryphal Book, called the Wisdom of Solomon, (xiv. 22-27.)

LECTURE V.

HISTORY OF INITIATION IN GREECE.

THE mysteries formed an important feature in the
system of religion practised amongst the Greeks. In the institutions of polytheism the gods were worshipped openly by prayer and sacrifice; and to these rites the people of every rank were admitted without distinction, because they formed the beaten track of duty which
mortal man was supposed to owe to the immortal deities. But the highest ceremonies of religion were .of a nature
too sublime to be exposed to public view: and were,
therefore, only celebrated in the presence of that dis-
tinguished portion of the community which had bound themselves by voluntary vows to preserve the solemn rites inviolably secret from the rest of the world.1 These rites were known under the high and significant appellation of The Mysteries f and even in them a subdivision had been made, because it was thought dangerous to entrust the ineffable secrets3 to any but a select and chosen few,4 who were prepared for a new accession of
knowledge by processes, at once seductive and austere,
and bound to secrecy by fearful oaths, and penalties of the most sanguinary character.5 The former were deno-
minated the Lesser, and these the Greater Mysteries.
In Greece the mysteries were celebrated in honour of
various deities, but the ceremonial did not vary in any essential points. The Eleusinian mysteries were per-

1 2

Warb. These

Div. Leg., Mysteries

vol. i., p. 142.
were divided

into

three

degrees,

which

were

Styled TO y.a&aooia; to. iiiy.oa Mvornoia. ; and ra enonTixa.

3 Clem. Alex., Strom. 5.

4 No foreigner is to be initiated into the holy Mysteries. (Aristoph.

Schol. Plut.)

5 Death shall be his penalty who divulges the Mysteries. (Sopat.

in divis. quaest.)

INITIATION IN GREECE.

S3

formed by the Athenians

at

6
Eleusis,

a

town

in

7
Attica,

every fifth year, and were subsequently translated to
Kome by Adrian.8 The Bacchic mysteries were equally

celebrated, and consisted of the Lenea and the Dionysiaca,

instituted

in honour of the

Bromian Dionusus ;

the

former,

so named from Lenos (Arjvosf a wine press, were a pre-

paration for the latter, which received their designation

from Dionysus, (Jiowaos) one of the names of Bacchus.10

At Athens they obtained the most distinguished popula-

rity, and were consequently invested with a proportionate

degree of splendour and magnificence.

tinder the fostering care of Pythagoras and Plato, the

6 " No woman shall go in her chariot to Eleusis," says Plutarch, (In
Lycurg. Rhet) " and whoever commits theft during the feast kept at

that place, shall be fined 6000 drachms."
7 The statue of the Eleusinian Ceres by Phidias is now in the public

library at Cambridge. 8 This festival was of nine days' continuance, and was celebrated
with much imposing splendour, heightened by the charms of music, both vocal and instrumental. (Diod. Sic., 1. v., c. 3.) The first day was usually consumed in assembling together, and in making the

requisite preparations for the solemnity ; the second was employed

in ceremonial purifications and ablutions in the sea; the 'third was

appropriated

to

sacrifice ;

the

fourth

to

public processions ;

the fifth

to an illumination with torches; the sixth to songs accompanied with

the music of flutes and brazen kettles; the seventh to public games;

the eighth to the solemn purpose of initiation, and the performance of sacred rites and the ninth to the final ceremonies of libation.
;

(Potter. ArchaBol. Grec., vol. i., p. 383.)
9 Wait (Orient. Ant., p. 210,) thinks it probable that Lenos was
derived from the Sancrit Liriga, the Phallus. 10 The arcane narration of these mysteries is thus related by Mr.
Taylor. (On the Eleus. and Bacch. Mys., in Pamphleteer, vol. viii.) "Dionysus or Bacchus, while he was yet a boy, was engaged by the

Titans, through the stratagems of Juno, in a variety of sports with

which

that

period

of life

is

so

vehemently

allured ;

and

among

the

rest he was particularly captivated with beholding his image in a

mirror ;

during his admiration of which he was miserably torn

in

pieces by the Titans ; who, not content with this cruelty, first boiled his members in water, and afterwards roasted them by the fire. But

while they were tasting his flesh, thus dressed, Jupiter, excited by the steam, and perceiving the cruelty of the deed, hurled his thunder at the Titans; but committed his members to Apollo, the brother of
Bacchus, that they might be properly interred. And this being
properly performed, Dionysus, whose heart, during laceration, was snatched away by Pallas and preserved, by a new regeneration, again emerged, and being restored to his pristine life and integrity, he
afterwards filled up the number of the gods. But, in the mean time, from the exhalations formed from the ashes of the burning bodies of the Titans, mankind were produced."

84

HISTORY OF INITIATION

Mysteries were greatly improved. The former received the rudiments of that knowledge which afterwards ele-

vated him to such a distinguished rank, from Anaximander

the Milesian.

His

first

initiation

took

place

at

Sidon ;

and he was so impressed with the idea that something

more was intended to be conveyed by this solemnity, than the priests were able or willing to explain, that he
resolved to devote his life to the discovery. He travelled
over the world for knowledge, and was initiated into the

mysteries of all nations, that by analysing the peculiari-

ties of each system, he might discover the source of truth. Hence his improved mysteries were the most perfect approximation to the original science which could be

accomplished by an idolatrous philosopher bereft of the aid of revelation. Some parts of his scheme would have
been unaccountable, but from the fact of his Jewish

initiation, and instruction in sacred things by Ezekiel the

11
prophet.

He enjoined upon his candidates a probation of five

years

abstinence

and

silence 12 ;

for he

esteemed the

latter

virtue as an unobjectionable proof of wisdom.13 This extended trial, called a quinquennial silence, was intended

to abstract their minds from sensible things, that they

might be enabled to reflect on the nature of the deity
with a pure and undivided attention.14 This probation
embraced many important particulars. The candidate was rejected if found passionate or intemperate, conten-

11 "Nazaratus the Assyrian, one of Pythagoras' masters, was by some supposed to be the prophet Ezekiel; which opinion Clemens

(Strom. 1.) oppugns; nevertheless, as Mr. Selden observes, the most

accurate chronology teacheth that Ezekiel and Pythagoras flourished

together, betwixt the 50th and 52nd Olympiad ; and, therefore, the

account hinders not but this Nazaratus might be Ezekiel." (Stanley,

Life of Py th.. p. 7.

12 Diog. Laert. in Vit. Pyth.

13
Apul. Florid., 1. ii.

Hence the English proverb, a still tongue

marks a wise head.

14 Clem. Alex., Strom. 5. This probationary silence differed essentially from that which was denominated Tcarre^rjs e%[tv&.la, which

implied that the initiated were bound to conceal from all the world

the secrets of the institution. The former was peculiar to the exoter-

icks, the latter to the esotericks. The probation of five years was sometimes partly remitted to those who, by their age and well-known
prudence, were supposed to possess the requisite qualifications. With these, two years were deemed a sufficient trial.

IN GREECE.

85

tious or ambitious of worldly honours and distinctions.15

Pythagoras made particular enquiry as to the kind of

society in which the aspirant

had

passed

his

time 1G ;

he

tried his fortitude and constancy by the infliction of

bodily wounds with an iron instrument heated red hot,

or with

the

point

of a sword, or

other

17
sharp weapon.

And if he endured these torments without shrinking;

and proved in other respects worthy of admission, he was

allowed to receive the first degree, conformably to the

system

of

Grecian

initiation 18 ;

and as an

exoterick, was

ranked among the Acousmatici. lg After the lapse of

another considerable space of time, they were admitted

to

the

second

degree,

and

were

termed

Mathematici

20 :

"and afterwards, on receiving the third degree, they were

15 Jambl., c. 20. This Rejection was attended with circumstances
so galling to the mind, that the unfortunate person frequently expired under its infliction. See Theocr. Phil, of Freem., p. 246.
16 Ibid. c. 17.
17 Notwithstanding this rigid probation, Pythagoras had no sooner established his system at Crotona, than in a very short time he had
six hundred candidates for initiation. ( Jarnbl., c. 6.) And " soon all
Italy was filled with his disciples ; and though before obscure, it was afterwards, in compliment to Pythagoras, denominated Magna Grecia."
(Ibid. c. 29.)
18 The Oath propounded to the aspirant was made on the number FOUR or Tetractys, which was expressed by ten commas or Jods, (supposing it to be derived from the Tetragrammaton of the Jews,) disposed in form of a triangle, each side contaming four ; as follows:'

Monad, Fire, or the active principle. Duad, the passive principle. Triad, the world proceeding from their union.
Quaternary, the liberal Sciences.

This triangle, some authors suppose, bore a reference to the triune

God, whence it was termed, Trigonon mysticum. (Jennings, Jewish

Ant., b. i., c. 12.) Jamblichus gives us the words of this oath. (De

vit. Pyth., c. 29.) Ov pa TOV d/nere^rj, &c. By the Great Tetractys, or name Jao, who hath communicated the fountain of eternity to our

souls, &c.

19 Jambl., c. 17.

20 The doctrine of Aristotle, says Lucian. was of two kinds, exoteric

and acroatic. Under the first were ranked rhetoric, meditation, nice

disputes on the knowledge of civil things ; under the other, the more

remote and subtle philosophy, the contemplation of nature and dialec-

tive disceptations.

86

HISTORY OF INITIATION

clothed in white

garments

as

emblematical

of

21
purity;

were entitled to all the privileges of esotericks, and

admitted within the screen, or into the sanctum sancto-

rum of the philosopher; and from henceforth received

the appellation of Pythagoreans, as having had perfect

initiation into the mysteries of Pythagoras, and fully

instructed in the abstruse principles of his philoso-

22 -
phy.

In his Lectures, Pythagoras defines his system, the

true method of obtaining jijknowledge:.J)f_divme and humanJaws,23 bv ineditation onjleath.2* bvpurifym^the

sTni'nifJj^

bvthe discovery of truth,

and

the

practice

of virtue ;

thus

imitating the

perfections

of

God,

as

far

as

is

possible

in

a

human

25
being.

He

taught the mathematics as a medium whereby to prove

the existence of God from the results of reason and

observation, and to convey happiness to man; grammar,

rhetoric, and logic were taught to cultivate and improve

the human reason ;

and

arithmetic, because he

conceived

that the ultimate benefit of man consisted in the science

of numbers.26 He thought the creation of the world was

21 Persius, Sat. 2, v. 40.

22 <(
Pythagoras

went

to

Phlius,

and

made

a

great

display of

his

learning before Leo, the prince of the Phliasians. The prince, charmed
with his discourse, asked him what art he professed. He answered,

that he knew no art, but was a Philosopher. Leo, surprised at this

new name, asked, what are Philosophers, and wherein do they differ

from others ? Pythagoras answered, that human life is like the

Olympic Games, some attend for glory, some for profit, and some to

observe curiously what is there performed. These despise both glory

and profit, and employ themselves studiously to inquire into the

causes of all things. These are inquirers after wisdom, or Philoso-

phers." (Cicero Tuscul. quaest, 5.) Valerius Maximus relates also,

that when Pj'thagoras founded his school, he was asked what was

the name of his system, and answered, I am not Sophos, wise; but

my Philo-sophos,

a lover of wisdom ;

and

followers shall be called

Philosophers. 23 Psell. compend. de 5000. B Stobaeus. Serm.

24 Hieron. ad Eufin.

26 The Pythagorean system of numbers may be found in Signs and
Symbols. Lect. 9 ; and the Theocr. Phil, of Freemas., Lect. 6 ; to which
I may add, that the great Pythagoric Symbol was ONE and TWO. which
were used as the names of propagation, one being the father, two the mother. The multiplication of unity and duity (once twice two) make FOUR, the Tetractys. the idea of all things, which are consummated in the number TEN. (Stanley, Lives, p. 106.)

IN GREECE.

87

effected by the harmony of numbers, 27 and that they

existed in the regions of the blessed before the world

28
began.

Odd numbers he assigned to the celestial gods,

and hence all sacrifices to those beings ought to be in

odd numbers. Even numbers were for the infernal

deities,29 Geometry, music, and astronomy were incul-
cated, because he conceived that man is indebted to

these sciences for a knowledge of what is really good and

useful. He accounted his system vain if it did not con-

tribute

to

expel

vice,

and

introduce

virtue

into

the

mind

30
j

and he taught that the two most excellent things for man,

were theoretic and practical virtue; i. e. to speak the

truth; and to render 'benefits to each other. The several

heads to which he reduced these virtues31 were institution,

27 Stob. Physic., 1. ii.

28 Nicom. Arith., c. 5.

How 29 Serv. in JEn., 3.

did Pythagoras reconcile this doctrine of

odd and even numbers, with his known axiom, that the numbers four

and ten were the Tetractys, or sacred name of God?

Stob. Serm.

31 One of the methods which Pythagoras used to enforce on his

disciples the practice of moral virtue, was by the use of short and pithy sentences, which were symbolical of some great moral duty. The following is a specimen of this mode of instruction : Sit not upon

a

Oicenix, means, live

not without

initiation ;

and

be

not

initiated

without contemplation and discipline ; for initiation, without previous

preparation and subsequent diligence, is but to enjoy a faint shadow

A of Light, and is worse than total darkness. Travelling from borne,

turn not back, for the furies go back with you.

greater than

Pj'thagoras hath said, ;i no man having put his hand to the plough

and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God." (Luke ix., G2.)

Pythagoras meant the same thing applied to an inferior purpose. It

was an exhortation to his followers to pass honourably through every

degree of his system, that they might attain to perfection. Turn away from thyself every edge. Use prudence, and abstain from ungovernable passion. Take off thy right shoe first. This also

denoted prudence. Pass not over a balance, referred to justice and

equality. Wear not a ring. Bind not your soul about with the chain of ignorance as the finger is bound with a ring, but be initiated into

philosophy, which separates the mind from terrestrial considerations, and fits it for the contemplation of high and immortal things. Look

not in a glass by candlelight. Beware of that state of twilight which

consists in superficial knowledge ; for this is worse than absolute

ignorance ; but search for the true light, that you may be enabled to

find out the nature of the Deity, and estimate his infinite perfections.

Lay not hold of every one readily with the right hand. Try and

prove every one before you admit him into your society as a friend
and brother. Eat not the heart. Eat not the brain. Do not rend

asunder the social bond which unites your society, by unnecessary disputes or useless divisions. Put not meat in a chamber-pot. Com-

88

HISTORY OF INITIATION

silence, temperance, fortitude, prudence, and justice. He

proceeded to inculcate the omnipresence of God, the immortality of the soul, and the necessity of personal
holiness to qualify man for admission into the society of the gods ; and declared his opinion that no man could be

accounted

happy or miserable till the

day of his

death ;

because, in his most exalted moments he is not able to

pry into futurity, or to divine to-day what evils to-morrow

may bring upon him. He taught that man is endowed with eight organs of

knowledge to which symbolical institution might be

32
usefully applied ;

and

these were,

sense ?

phantasy,

art,

municate not your mysteries to an idle or foolish person, for such an

one will disgrace and betray you. Sleep not at noon. Shut not your eyes against the Light of knowledge at a time when its hidden stores

are most clearly displayed before you, lest the remainder of your life

be passed amidst the uncertain glimmering of twilight, or the shades of

midnight

darkness ;

the

mists

of

imperfect

information, or

the

dark

clouds of total ignorance. The curious reader who wishes to pursue

this subject further, may find all the symbolical sentences of Pythagoras in Stanley's Lives of the Philosophers, from which celebrated work the

above have been extracted.

32 The following are some of the symbols of Pythagoras : The
equilateral triangle, a perfect figure, refers to God, the principle and

author of all sublunary things ; who, in his body, resembles Light,
and in his soul Truth. He was, and is, and shall be. The right

angle or square comprehends the union of the celestial and terrestrial capacities ; and was an emblem of Morality and Justice. The perfect

square represents the divine mind, as has already been explained of
the Tetractys. The cube was a symbol of the mind of man after a

well spent life in acts of piety and devotion ; which is thus perfectly

A A prepared by virtue for translation into the society of the celestial

gods.

point within a circle.

symbol of the universe. Mesou-

raneo, because the most excellent body ought to have the most

excellent place, viz., the centre. The central fire was esteemed by

Pythagoras, the mansion of Jove. The Dodecaedron was also a

symbol of the universe. The triple triangle formed of five lines

returning into itself, was a symbol of health, and was called Hygeia.

The forty -seventh proposition of Euclid was invented by Pythago-

ras, and is so extensively useful that it has been adopted in all lodges

since his time, as a significant symbol of Masonry. It is said by

Apollodorus and other authors, that Pythagoras sacrificed a Heca-

tomb on the discovery of this useful problem. This, however, is

exceedingly doubtful, because Pythagoras abhorred bloody sacrifices,

and directed his followers to offer nothing but cakes and wine, herbs,

flowers, and fruit. The letter Y. This symbolical character repre-

sented the course of human life. Youth, arriving at manhood, sees

two ways before him, and deliberates which he shall pursue. If he

IN GREECE.

89

opinion, prudence, science, wisdom, and mind. He
arranged his assemblies due East and West, because he
said that motion began in the East or right side of the
world and proceeded towards the West or left side. In a word, though his Institution was the most perfect system ever practised amongst idolaters, yet when he endeavoured to enter the Holy of Holies, and began to speculate on the knowledge of God and a future state, he was bewildered with childish notions and idle conjec-
tures, instead of enjoying the brilliant beams of divine

truth.

Plato was deeply versed in all the mysteries of anti-

33
quity,

which

he

believed

capable of

restoring

the

soul

to

its

primitive

34
purity.

He adopted the division of

three degrees, because three was a mystical number, dedi-

cated to the celestial deities. These degrees were pro-

gressive, the ceremonial being in accordance with the

Greek mode; and no candidate was admitted to them

without an elementary course of study and privation,

during which he was subjected to the Pastes, by being

placed in a well for a specified period, as the medium of

35
regeneration.

The first degree was mathematical ; and

embraced arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy;

the instruction of the second degree was confined to

physics ; and the third, in which the brows of the candi-

date were encircled with a crown or tiara, to intimate

meet with a guide that directs him to pursue philosophy, and he procures initiation, his life shall be honourable and his death happy. But if he omits to do this, and takes the left hand path, which

appears broader and better, it will lead to sloth and luxury; will waste his estate, impair his health, and bring on an old age of infamy

and misery. (Porph. vit. Pyth. Stob. Serai. Persius. Sat. iii.,

v. 56. Stanley. Lives of Philos., &c.) See also the Theocr. Phil,

of Freemas., where the system of Pythagoras is elaborately explained. 33 Proems says that Plato derived his theology from Orpheus.

(CMudIwn.

Intell. Syst., Phaedone.

p.

547.)

35 " It was in allusion to such rites that Plato," says Faber (Pag.

Idol., vol. iii., p. 188), "whose philosophy was largely tinged with

the doctrines of the Mysteries, was wont to say, that Truth must be

sought for at the bottom of a well. By truth he meant the specula-

tions revealed to the initiated, who were henceforth styled Epopts,

or

persons

who

see things

truly

as they

are ;

and by

the

well,

he

meant the sacred pit or cavern where the mysteries were so frequently

celebrated."

90

HISTORY OF INITIATION

that he had now received the inestimable gift of superior
endowments, and a power of instructing others, was confined to theology. His doctrines embraced disquisitions on the nature of God, and the creation and ultimate

destruction of the world. His opinion of the divine nature was, that it contained three hypostases, which he

termed Tagathon Nous Psyche, or Goodness, Wisdom, and Spirit, the second of which emanated from the first, and the third from both. But he taught that all good

men, after death, became demons, and were, therefore,

entitled to the homage of divine worship; that the

governor of the world had committed all things to their superintendence; and that they were the authorized mediators between the gods and men, and appointed to

convey sacrifices and supplications from earth to heaven,
and blessings and rewards from heaven to earth. He
taught that Grod created the world, but held, from the
deductions of human reason, that, as something could

not have been formed from nothing, the materials must

have descended from some pre-existent state.36 He be-

lieved that the universe was doomed to be ultimately

destroyed

by

fire,

in

verification

of the

fable

of

Phaeton

37
;

and preserved in his system a tradition of the first created

beings

in

Paradise ;

how

they conversed with angels in

a state of nature and unclothed; how the earth brought

forth its fruits spontaneously to provide these favourites
of heaven with food; how they spent their time in innocence and unoffending simplicity ; and how at length,

by the suggestions of a serpent, they fell from their purity, became ashamed of their nakedness, and were cast forth

into

a

world

of sorrow,

grief,

and

38
despair.

These traces

30 De Eepub., 1. v.

37 In Timj-eo.

33 An obscure tradition of this event had been propagated in every

nation of the heathen world from the dispersion ; but it had been

studiously disguised by fable to keep it secret from the vulgar and

uninitiated, until, in process of time, the true intent and meaning of

the ^ymbols
entirely lost.

and "

allegory in which it Origen thinks that

had been enveloped, were almost Plato, by his converse with the

Jews in Egypt, did understand the history of the Fall of Man;

which he, after his way, enigmatically describes in his Symposiacks.
Where he brings in Porus the god of plenty feasting with the rest of

the

gods ;

after supper, Penia comes a begging

to

the

door ;

Porus

being drunk with nectar, goes into Jupiter's garden, and there falls

asleep. Penia observing it, steals to him, and by this deceit con-

IN GREECE.

91

I

of truth fully prove the source whence the mysteries in general proceeded, because they bear undoubted marks that at their institution they were commemorative rites pointing to events which actually took place at the
commencement of the world.39 He taught the "history
of the Deluge, and wrote a book professedly on the subject, which he called Atlanticus; and he inculcated the
metempsychosis, and the important doctrine of man's

personal responsibility.

The chief hierophant or dispenser of the mysteries,

represented

the

Demiurgus,

or

Creator

of

the

40
universe,

and led a retired life of perpetual celibacy, that he might

be entirely at liberty to devote himself to the study and

contemplation of celestial things, and thus become a

perfect master of every science embraced by the Institu-

tion of which he was the despotic head.41 The next

ceives by him. In this fable of Plato, Origen takes notice what a near resemblance the garden of Jupiter hath to Paradise, Penia to the Serpent which circumvented Adam, and Porus to the man who was deceived by the Serpent. Which he conceives to be the more
probable, because of Plato his custom to wrap up those excellent things he knew under some fables because of the vulgar ; for which he after speaks of his custom in altering and disguising what he had from the Jews, lest he should too much displease the fabulous Greeks, if he should adhere too close to the Jews, who were so infamous among them." (Stillingfleet. Orig. Sacr., p. 518.)
9 The truth is, that though Plato professed to have received his knowledge from an ancient tradition, he had it in reality from the
Jews, as Origen has truly testified (see also Clem. Alex. Strom. 1) ; but the facts were unaccompanied by the key; and, therefore, he inculcated on his disciples, the unimportant nature of the information,
unless some future philosopher should rise up among them, who
should be capable of revealing the true interpretation. ;0 Euseb. Prsep. Evan., 1. iii., c. 12.
41 To accomplish this abstraction with the greater certainty, it was
customary for these dignified priests, in the earlier periods of their
history, to mortify the flesh by the use of certain herbs which were
reputed to possess the virtue of repelling all venereal excitements.
Nay, some were so rigid in this respect, as literally to proceed to the
expedient of emasculating themselves, that all inclination to illicit pleasures might be effectually subdued. This practice was esteemed highly meritorious. It was an axiom that what is most valuable
to man should be offered in sacrifice to the gods ; and, hence, castration was invested with a high degree of supererogatory merit. Hence we are told by Lucian (de Dea Syria.), that in Syria, during the
celebration of their most solemn rites, the priests would suffer them-
selves to be attired in female habiliments, and submit to the castiga-
ting knife, in the presence of the assembled crowd ! Such is the
power of enthusiasm !

92

HISTORY OF INITIATION

superior officers were the torch-bearer, (Daduchus,) the

herald, (Ceryx,) and the attendant on the altar, (0 Epi-

42
boma.)

Three other officers represented the Sun, the

Moon, and the planet Mercury; besides whom there

were four inferior attendants to whose care the less

important departments of these mysterious celebrations

were committed.

They

were

denominated

43
Epimelitse.

The aspirant was required to possess a character of irre-

proachable

44
morality j

for

as

the

system

was

reputed

to

be without stain of impurity, so a dissolute candidate

was uniformly rejected with contempt, as calculated to

bring disgrace on the Institution, and involve it in all the opprobrium of public scorn. The probationary tests

were strict and solemn. The most minute colloquial

examination of the aspirant was instituted to corroborate

the testimony of others ; so that it would require all the

arts of successful imposture to elude the mystagogue's

investigations into his former life, character, and con-

duct.45

The initiations were preceded by a public festival;

and

the

candidates,

whether

male

or

46
female,

were

care-

fully purified in the pellucid waters of a running stream,

and endured the rigours of 'a nine days preparation ; after

which the ceremonies commenced with prayer and sacri-

fice. During the continuance of these preliminary rites,

the aspirants were exhorted to abstract their attention

from every light and worldly subject, and to fix their

minds intensely on the high and supernal celebrations

which were performed under the actual inspection of

the

immortal

47
gods,

to

an

intimate

union

and

commu-

nion with whom they were now about to be admitted.48

The priests then proceeded to invoke a blessing by

prayer ; for the petitionary sacrifices (Avnrrixd) of heathen

nations were used at the commencement of every import-

ant undertaking ; and success was anticipated in propor-

tion with the degree of sincerity that was used in suppli-

cating the favour of the gods, and the sterling value of

42 Signs and Symbols, Lect. 11.

Meurs. Eleusin., c. 15.

44 Hence they were habited in white, because white was an emblem

of innocence. (Cic. de Leg. et Vid. Pers., Sat. ii., v. 40.) 45 Pint, in Apopth. et Lacon.

46 ApuL Metam., 1. 11.

47 Arrian. Dissert., 1. iii., c. 20.
48 Procl. in Ramp. Plat., 1. i.

Cic. de Leg., 1. ii., c. 14.

IN GREECE.

93

the

accompanying

49
offerings.

The ceremonies were

opened by the officiating priest, who asked publicly,
"Who is fit to be present at this ceremony?*' To which

it was answered, "Honest, good, and harmless men."

He

then

rejoined,

"Holy things are

for

holy

50
people;"

crying with a

loud voice,

"

Let

us

pray

51
;"

and

proceeded

in due form to make the requests of the attendant aspi-

rants known to the benevolent deities. Then the sacri-

fice was offered with the customary formalities, seasoned

with salt, because salt was an emblem of hospitality and

friendship :

and

the

priest

52
augured

from

the

entrails

of

the victim, whether the gods were propitious to their

praters. If the response were favourable, the rites of

initiation were forthwith celebrated.

4- Plat, Tiraseo.

M Kellet. Tricsen. Christ., p 548.

51 At the commencement of these services amongst the Romans,

proclamation was made, ut faverent linguis, that the people should

govern their tongues : and, at the conclusion, before they were suf-

fered to depart, they were enjoined litibus et jurgiis abstinere, to

abstain from brawls and quarrels. During the whole continuance of
the festival, the strictest equality was observed, and a heavy fine was imposed on any opulent person who endeavoured to distinguish

himself by an equipage. But, wheft the celebration was ended, and

every person resumed his ordinary station in life, the gradations of

rank were defined and observed with their accustomed regularity.

(Plin. Nat. Hist., 1. xxviii., c. 2. Hor., 1. in., Od. 1. Juvenal., Sat.

12.)

62 ** The most ancient oracles in the heathen world were unques-

tionably dictated by the spirit of

truth ;

for

God

never

left

himself

unwitnessed by his extraordinary interpositions, as well as by the

ordinary dispensations of his providence. But, in process of time,

the oracle degenerated and basely sanctioned the introduction of

Egyptian Polytheism, with the rites of the Lingam or Priapus &c., celebrated at Samothrace likewise; as we learn from the candid and

honest report of Herodotus, who was ashamed of their impurities."

(Kale's Anal., vol. 4, p. 465.)

LECTUKE VI.

CEREMONIES OF INITIATION INTO THE MYSTERIES OF BACCHUS.

THE place of initiation was

a

gloomy

1
cave,

or

rather

a connected range of

2
caverns,

fitted

up

with

machinery

that might display, with full effect, all the terrors of the

process. Streams of water ran through various parts of

its dismal area ; which served equally for the purpose of

lustration, and to shadow out the diluvian waters per-

vading the material world. The cavern was ritually con-

secrated3 and secreted from vulgar observation by being

1 The Nympheum, or place of initiation in Greece, is thus briefly described by Homer'

" High at the head a branching olive grows, And crowns the pointed'clifts with shady boughs, Beneath a gloomy grotto's cool recess, Delights the Nereids of the neighbouring seas ; Where bowls and urns were form'd of living stone, And massy beams in native marble shone : On which the labours of the Nymphs were roll'd, Their webs divine of purple mix'd with gold. Within the cave the dust' ring bees attend Their waxen works, or from the roof depend. Perpetual waters o'er the pavement glide ; Two marble doors unfold on either side
;
Sacred the south, by which the gods descend; But mortals enter at the northern end."
POPE, Od., 1. xiii., v. 122.

The gate of

entrance for the aspirant was

from the north ;

but when

purged from his corruptions, he was termed indifferently, new-born,

or immortal, and the sacred south door was from thence accessible to

bis steps.
2 Vid. ut supra, p. 16. Plut. de Isid. et Osir., p. 639. The most
celebrated of- these Greek caverns were the caves of Eleusis, Athens, the grotto of Trophonius at Lebadea in Beotia, and the horrid sub-
terraneous dens of Samothrace.

3 In Egypt and other nations, the place of initiation was a pyramid erected over a subterraneous cavern. It appears to have been dedi-

cated to that purpose with an intensity of labour that produced the solidity which bids defiance to the ravages of time. The Arabians

have a tradition, says Greaves, in his Pyramidographia, that the Egyptian pyramids were built by Saurid Ibn Salhouk, king of Egypt

THE MYSTERIES OP BACCHUS.

95

the reputed residence of the vindictive deities, whose

vengeance, it was believed, would undoubtedly descend

on the unfortunate intruder, who, by accident or design,

should penetrate unbidden within

the

sacred

4
precincts.

who lived three hundred years before the Flood ! The pyramidal form of building was adopted alike for its firmness and durability; and its symbolical reference to the Sun from an imitation of the spiral flame. And what are the spires of our present churches but an imitation of
this primitive system of pyramidal architecture ? 4 Maundrell has accurately described one of these places of initiation
near Tortosa, which, however, he erroneously conceives to be a double
sepulchral monument. " The first antiquity that we observed," says he, ' was a large dyke, thirty yards over at top, cut into the firm rock Its sides went sloping down with stairs formed out of the natural rock, descending gradually from the top to the bottom. The dyke stretched in a direct line from east to west, more than a furlong, bearing still the
same figure of stairs running in right lines all along its sides. This dyke was on the north side of the Serpent Fountain" (Pinkert.
Collect, of Travels, vol. x., p. 315.) Mr. Maundrell then describes a
spacious court cut in the rock containing an altar or cromlech, and two pyramidal towers at the distance of about half a mile from it. " Each of these towers," says he, u has under it several sepulchres, the entrances into which are on the south side. It cost us some time and

pains to get into them, the avenues being obstructed first with briars

and weeds, and then with dirt, but we removed both these obstacles.

Going down seven or eight steps, you come to the mouth of the

sepulchre, when, crawling in, you arrive in a chamber which is nine

feet two inches broad, and eleven feet long. Turning to the right hand,

and going through a narrow passage, you come to a second room,

which is eight feet broad and ten long. In this chamber are SEVEN

cells for corpses, two over against the entrance, four on the left hand,

and one unfinished on the right. These cells were hewn directly into

We the firm rock.

measured several of them, and found them eight

feet and a half in length, and three feet three inches square. I would

not infer from hence that the corpses deposited there were of such a

gigantic size as to fill

up

such

large

coffins ;

though, at the

same time,

why should any men be so prodigal of their labour as to cut these

caverns into so hard a rock as this was, much farther than necessity

required ?" (The fact is, they were never intended for corpses, but as
conveniences for the terrific machinery of initiation.) t; On the south

side of the first chamber was a narrow passage of seven feet long,

leading into a third room, whose dimensions were nine feet in breadth,

and twelve in length. It had eleven cells, of somewhat a less size

than the former, lying at equal distance all round about it. Passing

out of the first room foreright. you have two narrow entrances, each

seven feet long, into a fourth room. This apartment was nine feet

square ; it had no cells in it like the others, nor anything remarkable

but only a bench cut all along its side on the left hand." This was

the sacellum. (Maundrell, ut supra, p. 316.) Several other similar

ranges of subterraneous caverns are found in the same neighbourhood,

which might be, and probably were, connected together.

96

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

Here the priests, crowned with serpents the symbols
of initiation performed their dreadful and unhallowed
commenced rlliLtteisS. T-Lh1e1 Oiirl illnlc^dalnJtIa/CtIiHoUInIsO VyViJlllAltxli^v;a with VVJ.U1J. the consecra-

tion

of

an

5
egg,

to

commemorate

equally

ttlhe

creation

of

all things, which were traditionally bbeelllieved to have

sprung

from

an

6
egg

formed

by the deity ;

and the reno-

vation of mankind by the great father.

The first actual ceremony among the Greeks was to

purify the aspirant with water, and to crown him with

7
myrtle,

because

^he

myrtle

tree

was

sacred

to

Proser-

8
pine;

after

which

he

was

free

from

arrest

during

the

celebrations.9 He was then introduced into a small cave

or

vestibule

to

be

invested with

the

sacred

10
habiliments;

6 Plat. Sympos., 1. ii., q. 3.

"
Hyginus

has

preserved

a

curious

tradition respecting the Assyrian Venus, in which the arkite dove, and
the mundane egg, make a very conspicuous appearance. An egg of

wonderful magnitude was reported to have fallen from heaven into the

river Euphrates, and to have been rolled by fishes to the bank. Upon

it sat doves ;

and

out

of

it was at length

produced

that Venus, who

was afterwards styled the Syrian goddess." (Fab. Mys. Cab., vol. i.,

p. 81, with authorities.) Nigidius and other authors have recorded

the same thing.

P Vid. Grot. De Verit., i., s. 16, in nota k.

7 Schol. Aristoph. Ranis.

8 The machinery of these mysteries is thus described by Psellus in

a Greek MS. quoted by Taylor in his dissertation on the Eleusinian and Bacchic mysteries. (Pamphleteer, vol. viii.) " The Eleusinian

mysteries consisted in representing the fabulous narration of Jupiter

mingling with Ceres and her daughter Proserpine. But as venereal

connections take place along with the initiations, a marine Venus is

represented as arising from certain fictitious genital parts ; afterwards

the celebrated marriage of Proserpine with Pluto takes place, and

those who are initiated sing, ' I have eat out of the drum, I have drank

out of the cymbal, I have borne bed.' " (This is evidently the

the mystic cup, I have entered into Pastes of the mysteries, in which

the the

aspirant for the higher degrees was immured during the period of his probation.) " But the pregnant throes likewise of Ceres are repre-

sented." (Here Ceres is the ark ; and her pregnant throes refer to

the dismemberment of that sacred vessel, and the egress of the hero gods.) " Hence the supplications of Ceres are exhibited ; her drinking

of bile, and the pains of the heart

After all this, the honours of

Bacchus

succeed ;

the cista, and the cakes with many bosses like

those

of a

shield ;

likewise

the

mysteries

of

Sabazius, divinations

of the

priestesses

of

Bacchus ;

a certain sound of 'the Thesprotian kettle,

the

Dodoncean brass ;

another Corybas, and

another Prosperine, who are

resemblances
9 " No one

of Demons," &c., shall be arrested

&c. or apprehended

during

the

celebration

of the mysteries." (Demosth. in Mediam.)

10 Chrys., Orat. 12.

THE MYSTERIES OF BACCHUS.

97

after which his conductor delivered him over to the

raystagogue, who then commenced the initiation with the

prescribed formula, E%as, Exas, eore fierce, Depart hence,

all ye profane ; and the guide addressed the aspirant by

exhorting him to call forth all his courage and fortitude,

as the process on which he was now about to enter was

of the most appalling nature. And being led forward

through a series of dark passages and dismal caverns, to

represent the erratic state of the Ark while floating on the

troubled

surface

of

the

diluvian

11
waters,

the machinery

opens upon him. He first hears the distant thunder

pealing through the vault of heaven, 12 accompanied by

the

howling

of

13
dogs

and

wild

beasts

an apt represent-

ation of the confusion which prevailed amongst the

multiplicity of domestic and ferocious animals during

the period of Noah's confinement in the Ark. These

terrific noises rapidly approach, and the din becomes

tremendous,

reverberated,

as

it

doubtless

wr as,

in

endless

repetitions, from the echoing vaults and lofty caverns
within whose inextricable mazes he was now immured.

Flashes of vivid light now broke in upon him, and ren-

dered the prevailing darkness more visible ; and by the

momentary illumination he beheld the appearances by

which he was surrounded. Monstrous shapes and appa-

14
ritions,

demoniacal

figures,

grinning

defiance

at

the

intruder ; mystical visions and flitting shadows, unreal

phantoms

of

a

dog-like

15
form,

overwhelm

him

with

11 It was a rude and fearful march through night and darkness. (Stobseus. apud Warb. Div. Leg., vol. i., p. 235.)
12 It has been asserted that the Egyptians, and hence probably the Greeks, were acquainted with some chemical process to produce an
explosion like gunpowder. (Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. vii., p. 671.) If this be correct, the imitative thunder is easily accounted for.
13 St. Paul admonishes the heathen converts to beware of dogs. (Phil, iii., 2.) They were symbols of the xay.odaificov, or evil genius,
and were used and worshipped in the way of propitiation. 14 Monstrum, horrendum, informe, ingens cui lumen ademptum.

(^En., 1. vi.) 15 Pletho. Schol. in Orac. Zoroast., p. 131.

The celebrated Barker

Anubis (latratorem, semicanem deum. ^En., 1. viii.) was exhibited.

Cerberus, the infernal monster, was here represented in mimic show

with his three heads, which are said by Porphyry to have referred to the rising, southing, and setting of the Sun (Apud Euseb. prsep. Evan., 1. iii.) ; and hence it is a reasonable conjecture that this noisy, latratory porter of hell was nothing more than an emblem of the

solar orb.

8

98

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

terror.16 In this state of horrible apprehension and

darkness,

he

was

kept

three

days

and

11
nights.

With passions thus excited, the aspirant was now made

to perforn the aphanism, or ceremonies commemorative of
the mystical death of Bacchus. 18 He was covered with

the pastos or bed; or in other words he was subjected to

confinement in a close cell, that he might reflect seriously,

in solitude and darkness, on the business he was engaged

in ;

and

be

reduced

to

a

proper

state

of mind

for

the

reception of sublime and mysterious truths.19 This was

the

symbolical

death

of

the

mysteries

20
;

and

the

deliver-

ance from confinement was the act of regeneration or

new-birth ;

and hence the renovated aspirant was termed

Si<pvrl6 or twice born ; once from the womb of his natural

mother and again from the pastos of initiation. During

the period of his imprisonment in the cell, he was

16 Proclus. in Plat. Theol., 1. iii., c. 18. Dion. Chrys., Orat. 12.

Orig. cont. Gels., 1. iv.
17 Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 156. This ceremony had a particular and intimate connection with the Egyptian plague of darkness, says Fabec. " The scriptural account of it is very brief, yet it sets forth one circumstance of high importance. There was a thick darkness in
all the land of Egypt three days ; they saw not one another, neither rose any from his place for three days. It appears, then, that the duration of the preternatural darkness was precisely equal to that of the

darkness of the Mysteries." (Fab. ut supra.)

18 Or

Osiris ;

for Bacchus

and

Osiris

were

one and the same mytho-

logical

personage,

(Auson , Epig.

30,) as

were

also

Ceres

and

Isis ;

(Diod. Sic., 1. i.,) and as such they will be considered throughout this

description of the mysteries of Greece. (See on this point, Fab.

Mys. Cab., vol. i., p. 155.) The same rites were also celebrated by

the Phrygians and Byblians in honour of Attis and Adonis or Tham-

muz. (Lucian de dea Syria., s. 6, 7. Vid. Ant. of Masonry, p. 104.)

The death and resurrect! on of Osiris or Adonis has been made an em-

blem of the sowing and sprouting cf corn; (Vid. Voss. de Idol.,) but I think this idea is of modern date, and was borrowed from St. Paul.
(1 Cor. xv., 36, et seq.)
19 In some of the mysteries a statue resembling a dead body, ( Jul. Firm, de error Prof. Rel., p. 45.) was enclosed within an ark, (JPlut. de
Isid. et Osir., p 378,) shaped like a cresent ; to represent the mystical death of Noah when enclosed in that sacred vessel. (Apuleius, 1. ii.) In Egypt the symbol in which Osiris was feigned to be incarcerated was sometimes a wooden cow, because that animal was emblematical of

the ark. (Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. i., p. 34, and refer to plate 42 of
Pococke's Description of the East, vol. i., p. 108.) An oration was
pronounced over the body by the hierophant, relating most probably to the Deluge. (Diod. Sic., 1. i.)
10
Orph. Argon., v. 28.

THE MYSTERIES OF BACCHUS.

99

alarmed by a crash resembling the rush of waters burst-

ing with sudden impetuosity from a deep abyss, or the

deafening fall of

a tremendous cataract ;

for now was the

representation displayed of the waters of the Deluge

breaking forth from Hades to inundate the globe. The

monstrous

21
Typhon,

raging

in

quest

of

22
Osiris,

discover-

ed the ark in which he had been secreted, and violently

rending

it

23
asunder,

scattered the

limbs

of his victim

over the face of the earth amidst the din of dissolving
nature.24 The aspirant heard the lamentations which

were instituted for the death of their god, whose representative : he was, accompanied with doleful cries and

howlings of men, women, and animals, to symbolise the

death-shrieks and exclamations of terror, consternation,

and despair, which prevailed throughout the world at the

universal destruction of animated nature, and which would

unquestionably salute the ears of Noah while enclosed

within the vessel of safety. Then commenced the wan-

derings of Rhea in search of the remains of Bacchus,

her body begirt with a serpent, and a flaming torch in her hand,25 with lamentations26 for the loss ; accompanied

with frantic shrieks and furious gesticulations ; which

continued, accompanied by many minute ceremonies,27

21 Typhon was a personification of the sea, (Plut. de Isid. and Osir., p. 363,) or the Deluge, as Osiris was of the patriarch Noah (Fab. Mys.

Cab., vol. i.,p. 151,) and hence the propriety of the fable, however en-

veloped in mystery by the ritual of initiation.

22 Jambl. de Myst., s. vi., c. 5.

Plut. ut supra, p. 354.

24 In this Allegory we must view Osiris as the ark itself rather than

the diluvian patriarch, and his scattered limbs, its contents, which
supplied the whole earth with men and animals after the waters had

subsided. The ceremonies, however, were, in many respects, so contradictory to each other, that there exists much difficulty in reducing
them to order.

A 25 Minuc. Fel., p. 158.

torch was a symbol of Diana. Upright,

of the Sun in the east; reversed, of the same luminary in the west. 26 These lamentations were figuratively said to continue forty days,

in commemoration, probably, of the period in which the waters of the

Deluge actually increased upon the earth. (Gen. vii., 12.) 27 The following account of a disgusting ceremony, quoted by Mr.

Taylor from Arnobius, will show one of the practices used both in Egypt and Greece, at the period of initiation. " The goddess Ceres, when searching through the earth for her daughter, in the course of

her wanderings arrived at the boundaries of Eleusis, in the Attic

region, a place which was then inhabited by a race of people called

autochthenes, or descended from the earth, whose names were as fol-

lows ;

Baubo

and Triptolemus ;

Dysaules,

a

goatherd ;

Eubulus, a

100

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

for a considerable period. The initiated, whether males

or females, some habited in splendid attire, with crowns

or

mitres

on

their

heads ;

some

bearing

the

28
thyrsis ;

some

the

sacred

29
vessels,

while

others,

covered

with very

little

30
clothing,

mixed

promiscuously,

and

danced

to

the

sound

of

musical

instruments

played

by

the

Corybarites

31 ;

keeper of

swine ;

and Eumolpus, a shepherd, from whom the

race of

the Eumolpidse descended, and the illustrious name of Cecropidae was

derived, and who afterwards flourished as bearers of the Caduceus,

Hierophants, and Cryers belonging to the sacred rites. Baubo, therefore, who was of the female sex, received Ceres, wearied with

complicated evils, as her guest, and endeavoured to soothe her sorrows by obsequious and flattering attendance. For this purpose she entreated her to pay attention to the refreshment of her body, and placed before her a miscellaneous potion to assuage the vehemence
of her thirst. But the sorrowful goddess was averse to her

solicitations, and rejected the friendly officiousness of the hospitable dame. The matron, however, who was not easily repulsed, still con-
tinued her entreaties, which were as obstinately resisted by Ceres, who persevered in her refusal with unshaken constancy and invincible rigour. But when Baubo had thus often exerted her endeavours to
appease the sorrows of Ceres, but without any effect, she at length changed her arts, and determined to try if she could not exhilarate by prodigies a mind which she was not able to allure by serious at-
tempts." And in this she succeeded by an expedient too obscene to
be detailed here, which was imitated in the initiations, (Pamphleteer,

vol. viii.)
28 The Thyrsis was a long pole adorned with garlands and ribbons,
intermixed with sprigs of the vine and leaves of ivy (Eurip. Bacch., v. 176, et passim,) and having at the end a conrcal fruit like a pomegranate or pine. It represented the phallus. Vid. Bishop Cumberland's Treatise on Sanchoniatho's Phenician History, p. 68. The

phallus amongst the Egyptians was the symbol of fertility. (Savary's Letters on Egypt, vol. ii., p. 40.) Athenseus (1., i.,) states distinctly that Priapus and Dionysus were one and same person ; which accounts

for the gross obscenity of these rites.
29 Plut. de. Isid. et Osir., p. 336. 30 Ovid (Metam., 1. iv., v. 6,) says that they had the skins of beasts
thrown over their naked bodies. The bacchantes are generally de-

picted on gems, either naked, or merely covered with a thin transparent

garment. Sometimes the sexes exchanged clothes, an abomination

expressly forbidden to the Israelites in the law of Moses, which points

out the very early date of a licentious pollutions. (Deut.

custom which was the source xxii., 5.) " The woman shall

of many
not wear

that which pertaineth unto a man, neither shall a man put on a

woman's garment, for all that do so are abomination unto the Lord

thy God."

31 Wait. Orient. Ant., p. 218. Sophocles addresses Bacchus as

the

" Immortal leader of the maddening choir, Whose torches blaze with unextinguish'd fire ;

THE MYSTERIES OF BACCHUS.

101

blended with the howlings of despair for the dismember-

ment of their god. The dance progressively increasing

in rapidity and wildness, soon degenerated into a scene of

confusion. The whole party, as if under the influence

of some supernatural fervour, incontinently threw off the

remaining articles of their apparel, rushed amongst each

other as if they were

distracted ;

and

32
vociferating

that

their

god

had

been

murdered

by

the

33
Titans,

threw

themselves

into

lascivious

34
postures,

and

practised the

most abominable filthiness.35

In the midst of all this confusion, a signal from the

hierophant gave a sudden turn to the feelings and ex-

pressions of the mystae ; their mourning was changed

into joy, and the aspirant was emancipated from his con-

finement amidst peals of laughter and deafening shouts
of Ev^y.a^ev, Evyxatoopev, we have foundit ! let us rejoice to-

gether

36
!

for

now

the

Euresis,

or

discovery,

was

celebrated,

and it was announced that the mangled corpse was found,

and restored from the darkness of death to life and hope.
A living serpent was inserted into the bosom of the

affrighted

37
candidate,

which

passing

through

his

garments

Great son of Jove, who guid'st the tuneful throng, Thou who presidest o'er the nightly song ; Come with thy Naxian maids, a festive train, Who, wild with joy and raging o'er the plain, For thee the dance'prepare, to thee devote the strain."
FRANCKLIN.

33 The cry was Evoe ! Sabai ! Bacchi ! Hues ! Attes ! Hues ! all of

which were names of Bacchus. (Clem. Alex. Protrept. Diod. Sic,,

1. iv., c. 3.) These exclamations are said by Strabo to have origi-

nated in the east; and hence Dr. Wait, (Orient. Ant., p. 214,) thus

writes

the

passage

in the

Sanscrit ;

Aho! Sivl! 1st; Ad'histl Ady6 seva!

which is thus translated; "Hail! O Siva! Lord! Supreme Lord!

Salutation to the first existent !" It is more probable, however, that

this species of invocation was borrowed from the patriarchal worship.
See Exodus, (xxxiv., 6, 7,) where God himself announces his divinity

by eleven appellations.

33 It was of this period of initiation that David speaks, when lament-

ing that the Israelites ate the offerings of the dead, during the dis-

graceful worship of Baal Peor. (Psalm cvi., 28. Signs and Sym-

bols, p. 178.)

34 August, de Civ. Dei, 1. vi,, c. 9.

35 Clem. Alex. Cohort, ad Gent., p. 17.

36 Athen.

Legat.,

p.

88 ;

et

vide etiam Plut. de Isid. et Osir.,

p.

366.

37 Clem Alex. Cohort, ad Gentes. p. 11. Some say that a serpent of ductile gold was used. (Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 116.)

102

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

was taken out at the skirts of his robe;38 and being con-

ducted onwards, without time to reflect, the descent into

the infernal

39
regions

was

the next

adventure he was to

accomplish. On the banks of a sluggish stream he was

shewn a multitude of disembodied spirits, thronging to

procure a passage over the river, and clamorous at being

refused ; which represented the turbulent race of ante-
diluvians who perished in the Flood.40 Then the aspirant,
having crossed the river in a boat, was shewn the tor-

ments of those miserable wretches, who, for their vices,

had

been

condemned

to

everlasting

41
punishment.

Here,

during the intervals of howling and lamentation, and the
shrieks of woe by which those lost creatures vented the

unavailing sorrows of repentance, his attendant explained

the nature of the crimes which led to this dreadful ter-

mination; amongst which, the highest degree of punish-

ment was assigned to the impious race who either refused

initiation, or

betrayed

the

42
mysteries.

But he was not

allowed to ask any questions, or even to speak during

the ceremonies.43 Leaving this place of horror and des-

pair, the aspirant was conducted forward to the sound of

heavenly music, and soon entered on the plains of ravish-

ing delight, which are the reward of the virtuous initia-

ted.44 The perturbation of his spirits was here allayed

38 This ceremony was said to be commemorative of the ravishment

of Proserpine by Jupiter in the form of a serpent ; (Euseb. praep.

evan.) or more properly to signify that as the parent of the present
race of men was regenerated by his confinement in the ark, symbol-

ized by a serpent, which possesses the power of self-regeneration by

emerging periodically from its old skin and coining forth in all the
beauty and vigour of youth ; so the aspirant was purified and born anew by the sympathetic efficacy of the same animal brought into close contact with his naked body, when delivered from the Pastos.
39 Thus Hercules, before his descent into hell, was initiated into

the mysteries of Ceres. (Apollod. Bibl., 1. ii-> c. 5.)

40 Fab. Mys. Cab., vol. i., p. 278,

41 JEn., 1. vi., v. 752, 838.

12 43

W"aLrebt.noDipve.tiLteigo.n,arvyola.did.,reps.s

225.
be made

at

the

mysteries."

(Andoc.

My de

st.)

4441 The first stage of initiation," says an ancient writer, preserved

by Stobaeus, "is nothing but errors and uncertainties; laborious

wanderings ; a rude and fearful march through night and darkness.
And now arrived on the verge of death and initiation, everything wears

a dreadful aspect. It is ail horror, trembling, sweating, and affright-

inent. But this scene once past, a miraculous and divine light dis-

closes itself ;

and shining plains and flowery meads open on all hands

THE MYSTERIES OF BACCHUS.

103

by scenes in which were depicted the ever-verdant plain s

of Elysium ; and the souls of the just were exhibited in

the enjoyment of those pure delights which constitute

the reward of piety and virtue. The hero-gods passed

in review before him, and he enjoyed the exhilarating

vision, animated further by a hymn which was chanted

on the subject of the prevailing mythology.

At this stage of the initiation the hierophant delivered

a lecture on the nature and design of the mysteries ;

accompanied by certain significant tests, the insignia of

the Order, which served to distinguish the initiated from

the rest of the world. The aspirant then underwent a

45
lustration,

and

having

been

purified, he was introduced

into the sacellum, brilliantly illuminated and shining with

a

divine

46
splendour,

as a

striking

symbol

of the

mind

of the

initiated, now emerged from pristine darkness into a full

scientific

and

moral

illumination

47
;

for

he

was

greeted

by

the envied appellation of Epopt, being fully instructed in

the nature

and attributes

of the

48
divinity

and

the

doctrine

before them. Here they are entertained with hymns and dances, with
the sublime doctrines of sacred knowledge, and with reverend and
holy visions. And now become perfect and initiated, they are FREE,
and no longer under restraints : but crowned and triumphant, they walk up and down the regions of the blessed, converse with pure and holy men, and celebrate the sacred mysteries at pleasure." (Warb.
Div. Leg., vol. i., p. 235.) 45 Sopat. in divis. Quaest. 46 Apuleius, (Metam., p. 273,) says that at the close of his initiation
he saw the sun at midnight shining with a glorious brightness, (nocte medio vidi Solem candido coruscantem lumine). Even Plato denomi-
nates the illuminated sacellum, /uaxa()iav 6yirf a beatific vision.

(Pheed., p. 1224.)

47 Themist. Orat, in Patrem. apud Warb. Div. Leg., vol. i., p. 231.

48 "
Augustine

in

the

eighth

book, de

Civitate

Dei,

(c. 5,) tells

us

that Alexander wrote to his mother, that even the gods of the higher

rank, Jupiter, Juno, Saturn, &c., were men ; and that this secret was

laid open to him by Leo the great priest of Egyptian sacred things ;

requiring the letter to be burnt after it had revealed this to her. The

like Cyprian affirms, only he saith it was written to his mother insigni

tfolumine, in a famous volume, that the memory of their greater kings

was preserved, and hence arose the custom of sacrificing ; the priest confessing to him this secret. And, that we may not suspect these

Christian writers, Tully, in his Tusculan Questions, not far from the
beginning, owns that those who are initiated must know that they

worshipped

men's

souls

departed from their

bodies into

heaven ;

and

that majorum gentium dii were such ; and that almost all heaven was

filled with men. I doubt not but Alexander, Cicero, and Atticus, and

104

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

of a future state. The unity of the godhead was incul-

cated

49
;

and

during the

process

of

celebration

the

follow-

ing truth was repeatedly proclaimed: "Jupiter is King; he is the primitive source of all things ; there is ONE God ; ONE power, and ONE Ruler over all!"50 These disquisi-

tions were mixed up with the rhapsodies of Homer,51 the

doctrines of purgatory, transmigration, and a series of

mythological allegories that darkly shadowed out the

events

of

the

52
Deluge,

accompanied with

diffuse

and

mys-

Sanchoniatho also, were admitted to be acquainted with the Greatest

Mysteries, in the religious initiations of the heathens ; and that they
have truly told us that this worship of such great men as were the

founders

of

arts

and

civil

government,

was

the

grand

secret

of

it ;

which

was not communicated even to those that were initiated into the

Lesser Mysteries." (Cumb. Sanch., p. 348.) 49 Euseb. prasp. evan., 1. xiii. Cudw. Intell. Syst., c. iv., s. 18. 50 Proclus (in Tim., p. 95.) mentions a gem of Serapis, which bears
an inscription to the same purport, Ets Zevs Zaqams, ONE Jupiter

Serapis. Many testimonies to this effect may be seen in Grotius. de

Veritate, 1. 51 " It is

s. 10.
i.,
enacted that

at

the

celebration

of

the

Panathenaea

majora,

Homer's rhapsodies be repeated." (Lycurg. in Leocr. Elian.) 53 To enumerate these legends would require a volume. The fable
of the Titans making war on Jupiter was an instance of the allegoriz-

ing spirit of idolatry, for the rebellious Titans were no other than the
whole antediluvian race of mankind, except eight persons, who were

hence sometimes distinguished by the appellation of the just Titans; Hesiod terms them gods. (Theog., v. 838.) The former by their im-

piety set at defiance the divine power and justice, and were lost in the Flood. To the same effect was the tradition of the contest between

Jupiter and the giants, in which the latter were destroyed. (Apollod. Bibl., 1. i., c. 6.) The overthrow of Typhon was but a representation
of the return of the diluvian waters into their subterranean recesses.

(Ovid. Metam., 1. v.) The wanderings of lo, Isis, Rhea, Ceres, &c., as we have already seen, were but figurative allegories of the erratic

and desultory voyage of

the

ark ;

and the same event is referred

to in

the fable of the wanderings of Lysippa, Iphinoe, and Iphianassa. the

three daughters of Pretus or Minyas, who were struck with madness

for having despised the Bacchic mysteries. The murder of one of the

Cabiri by one of his brothers, like the death of Osiris and Bacchus,

related to the symbolical death of Noah. The expedition of the

Argonauts might have a reference to the Deluge, as Mr. Bryant and

Mr. Faber are decidedly of opinion ; the story of the birth of Bacchus

amidst the thunder and lightning which destroyed his mother Semele ;

(Ovid. Metam., 1. Hi.) and his being enclosed in the thigh of Jupiter, was only the fable of the Deluge, and the preservation of Noah in the

ark, for Arcch, an ark. and Yarech, a thigh, might easily, by the fanci-

ful genius of polytheism, be substituted the one for the other. (Vid.

Diod. Bibl., p. 123.) The descent of Hercules to hell, and the resto-

ration of Hyppolitus to life, were derived from the regeneration of

THE MYSTERIES OF BACCHUS.

105

terious strictures on the abstruse points of human gene-

ration, of which the visible symbols were Phalli, described

as emblems of the mystical regeneration and new birth

attained by the aspirant from the divine qualities of the
process of initiation.-53 He was then crowned and en-

throned; clad in a purple vest with golden zones; and

pronounced in a state of pure and ineffable light, and safe

from henceforth under the protection of the celestial

deities. Amulets were then delivered to him as preser-

vatives against

personal

54
danger,

and

he

was

instructed

Noah in the ark, as was also the descent of Orpheus in search of his

wife; and in like manner, as the animals spontaneously followed Noah

into the ark, so Orpheus is said to have drawn after him the brute

creation by the force of Harmony. (Apol. Argon., I. i.) The fable

of

the rape of

Europa affords another view of

the same

transaction ;

for a bull was the symbol of Noah, or the god of the ark, (Fab. Mys.

Cab., vol. i., p. 177,) as a cow was an emblem of the ark itself; the

legend of Hercules sailing over the world in a golden cup bears a de-

cided reference to the Deluge, for Hercules was the arkite god, and the

cup was

the

ark ;

and

the

submersion of

the island of Atlantis is

a

plain description of the same event. The account of the deluge of

Deucalion, however, is less impregnated with mystery than any of the
preceding. During the reign of this prince over the kingdom of
Thessaly, a general 'deluge inundated the earth, and destroyed the
whole race of men except himself and Pyrrha his wife, who were preserved in a ship which finally rested on the summit of Parnassus.
When the waters had subsided, this insulated pair were commanded
by an oracle to restore the human race by casting behind them the

bones of their mother, which referred to the loose stones which lay

scattered on the surface of the earth. Losing no time to provide the

renovated globe with inhabitants, they cast behind them a multitude

of stones, and were astonished to behold the crowds of men and women

by whom they were speedily surrounded. (Ovid, Metam., 1. i.) It

requires

little

ingenuity to

interpret

this

fable ;

and

accordingly

it

was delivered without disguise to the Epopt, or perfectly initiated

candidate.

53 This emblem was one of the abominations which defiled the

mysteries, and, as we have already seen, (ut supra, p. 100.) was exhib-
ited, with shameless impudence, even in public processions. Its origin
has been variously explained ; but it certainly sprang, either from the
sin of Ham, or the mysterious doctrine that the ark was the common mother of the human race; and Noah, by what name soever he might
be distinguished, the father.
64 With this superstitious people, a relic, ritually consecrated, was believed to insure the special favour and protection of the deity, with whom the priests were reputed to hold an intercourse. Thus if sickness were inflicted by a hostile god, an amulet consecrated to a superior deity, and suspended from the afflicted person's neck, would
speedily remove the disease. Young persons wore enchanted girdles
to excite love towards them in the other sex. The garments which

106

HISTORY OF INITIATION

in emblematical knowledge; for the morality of the

mysteries was involved in a series of visible symbols, for

the purpose of directing the enquiries of the uninitiated

into a mistaken channel, and leading them to conclusions

widely distant from the truth. Thus the figure of a hawk

was used to represent the Sun ; a crescent typified the .

Moon ;

the

omniscience of the deity was symbolized

by

an eye placed in the centre of an endless serpent; an obligated aspirant by a grasshopper ; knowledge by an ant ; impossibility by two naked feet walking on the sea.55
The dove was a conspicuous symbol, and had been introduced with great propriety, for this bird was the diluvian

messenger of peace, and hovered over the retreating waters like a celestial harbinger of safety. Hence a

lunette floating on the surface of the ocean, attended by

a

56
dove,

with

an

olive

branch

in

its

mouth,

and

encircled

by a rainbow, formed a striking and expressive symbol,

which

needs

no

57
explanation.

After these and other

had been worn during initiation were accounted sacred, and able to protect the wearer in every emergency. It was even commanded that " the initiated should dedicate the garments in which they were initiated at the temple of Ceres." (Artetoph. Schol. in Plut.) These invaluable reli-cs were therefore used by the fortunate possessor until they were resolved to rags ; and afterwards children were invested with the tattered remnants, as undoubted preservatives from the
malign effect of all diseases to which their tender age is by nature exposed. It was also accounted lucky to collect remnants of the sacrifices, which were denominated vyeiai, because they were thought conducive to health. The emblem of vyeiai Health, amongst the Pythagoreans was a triple triangle, because being alternately conjoined

^ within itself, it constitutes a figure of five lines,

(Lucian pro. laps.

in sal. admiss. apud Stanley, Lives, vol. iii., p. 62.) In India, the Saivas use this figure to signify emblematically, Savi uniting in himself

the three great attributes. (Asiat. Res., vol. viii., p. 77.)
55 Hence the incident of Christ walking on the sea is a striking proof

of his divinity; (Matt, xiv., 25,) for what is impossible with man, is

possible with

God ;

(Mark x,

27.)

and

Job says that God

alone

treadeth

on the waves of the sea. (Job ix., 8.)

66 The white dove was much esteemed by the Jews, and held in

sacVed reverence, because they believed that Noah's dove was of that

colour.

67 From the circumstance of the patriarch reaching out his hand to seize the dove, and bring it into the ark before the waters had subsided,
(Gen. viii., 9.) the Greeks invented many fictions, which subsequently became established principles in their system of mythology. The fable of Ixion bore this reference. He is said to have attempted to deflower Juno, but embraced in her stead, a cloud, for which offence

THE MYSTERIES OF BACCHUS.

107

illustrations

of

the

like

58
tendency,

the

aspirant

was

dis-

missed

through

the

beautiful gate

of the

59
Temple

with the

two barbarous words Koy$ and Ofinal, which are said to

mean,

WATCH

and

ABSTAIN

FROM

60
EVIL,

as

a

person

mysteriously regenerated, and placed in future under the

protection of the celestial gods.

It is admitted by many learned writers that the G recian

mysteries contained many facts in the life of the Jewish

lawgiver. Thus Bacchus is described as having been

taken from a chest or ark ;

and

as

being the

son of

two

mothers ;

because

Pharaoh's

daughter was like a second

mother to Moses. The deliverance of the Israelites from

their bondage in Egypt is another remarkable coinci-

dence. In the Dionysiaca, the thyrsis or Kod of Bacchus

was elevated, to perpetuate the remembrance of two re-

markable miracles which were reputed to have been per-

formed with this all-powerful instrument. On one occa-

sion61 he cast his rod upon the ground and it became a

serpent

62
;

and

afterwards

he

struck

the

two

rivers

Orontes

and

63
Hydaspes

with

it,

and the waters

immediately

re-

he was cast into hell. Now Juno is Juneh, the dove, (Fab. Mys. Cab.,

vol. i., p. 83,) which was seized by Noah; and his punishment on a re-

volving wheel in hell, merely referred to his descent into. the Hades of

the mysteries, and his circumambulating progress through the caverns

of initiation.

A 58 profusion of symbols which adorned these mysteries may be

found

in the

" Signs

and

Symbols," and

kC Theocr.

Phil, of Free-

masonry." 59 The caverns of initiation had two gates ; one called the descent to
hell, the other the ascent of the just ; which, in the passage already cited from Homer, are inaccurately described. Mr. Pope has inverted the sense of the original, where he makes the gods, or in other words the Epoptae, descend instead of ascend, and mortals enter instead of
descend. Thus, corrected, the reference is perfectly easy to the destruction of the antediluvians and the safety of the eight just persons,
who hence have been dignified with the name of immortals. (Vid. ut

supra, p. 72.)

60 Vid. Bibl. Univ., torn, vi., p. 86. Warb. Div. Leg., vol. i., p. 156.

''When the rites of the east were imported into Greece," says Mr.

Faber, "a strong charge was given that barbaric names should never

be changed; concerning which injunction- it is observed by Psellus,

that there are sacred names of ineffable import, preserved in the

mysteries of every nation, and delivered to them immediately by the

gods ; a circumstance which makes it unlawful to translate them into

the Greek language." (Mys. Cab., vol. i., p. 116.)

61 Non. in Dionys., 1. 25.

62 Vid. Exod. iv. 3.

63 Non. in Dionys., 1. 23.

108

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

64
ceded,

and

he

passed

over

65
dry-shod.

The assembly

which celebrated these orgies was composed of men,

women, and children of all ranks, amongst whom, during

the continuance of the festival, distinction was unknown.66

This was intended to commemorate the manner of Israel's

departing out of Egypt, accompanied by a mixed mul-

titude from all the neighbouring nations.67 During the

initiations, the purifying element was sometimes obtained

by striking a rock with the magical rod.68 The Bacchae

crowned their heads with serpents, "and carried serpents

in vases69 and baskets, in allusion, it is said, to the plague

of

fiery

70
serpents

inflicted

on the

Israelites

in

the wilder-

ness.71 And it was asserted by the hierophant that all

mankind were in darkness 12 except the initiated, who

alone were irradiated with the beams of true and scientific

light; referring, as some say, to the cloudy pillar which enlightened and directed the Israelites, while it involved

the Egyptian army in the shades of impenetrable dark-

ness

73
;

and,

according

to

others,

the

doctrine

was

symbol-

ical of the superior privileges enjoyed by the Israelites
in the immediate presence, and under the protection of the divine Shekinah, while the nations around them were

involved in the hideous darkness of idolatry. Nothing,
therefore, can be more clear than that a series of original traditions of the fundamental truths of religion, were
scattered abroad at the dispersion of mankind; and adapt-
ed by each people to the peculiar character of their own

superstitions.
Such was the splendid importance attached to these

'
Vid. Exod. xiv., 16. 65 Speaking of the miraculous passage over the Red Sea, Diodorus Siculus has this remarkable observation. " The Troglodytes, the in-

digenous inhabitants of this very spot, had a tradition from father to

son. from the very earliest times, that this division of the Red Sea did

once happen there ; and that after leaving its bottom some time .dry,

the sea again came back with great fury, and covered the land."

66 Diod. Bibl., 1. 4.

67 Exod. xii., 38.

68 Eurip. et. vid. Numb, xx., 11.

69
Atheneus,

apud

Fab.

Pag. Idol., vol. Hi., p.

171.

Mr. Faber con-

ceives that the vases alluded to the ark, and the libation to the Deluge ;

and hence the emptying of them properly concludes the mystic festi-

val, and represents the retiring of the diluvian waters.

7 Vid. Signs and Symbols. Lect. iii. 72 Non. apud Boch. Can.

71 Numb, xxi., 6.

73 Exod. xiv., 20.

THE MYSTERIES OF BACCHUS.

109

deteriorated mysteries, which were under the protection

of the

civil

74
magistrate.

They were places of assignation

to the

75
lustful,

and

consequently fatal

to

the rause

of

virtue

and

76
morality.

And yet, strange to tell, no

woman was qualified for the honour of officiating at the

celebration of this miserable apology for religion, except

she were able to testify on oath that she was free from all

manner

of

77
pollution.

Several eminent men in different

ages endeavoured to purge these orgies of their indecency,

but without success. Orpheus and Pentheus78 are mytho-

79
logical ly

said

to

have

been

torn in pieces by the Bac-

chantes, for their exertions to stem the torrent of depra-

vity and licentiousness which pervaded every rank and

description of people who were engaged in these celebra-

74 "An assembly of the senate shall convene in the Eleusinian
temple on the day after the festival," say the laws of Solon, "to inquire whether every thing has been done decently and according to
order."

75 Vid. Eph. iv., 19. 76 Clem. Alex. Cohort, ad Gentes, p. 19.

77 The idea which these worthies entertained of personal purity

may be correctly deduced from the following custom, preserved by

Herodotus. This writer tells us, (1. i.,) that all the female votaries

of Mylitta, who was the same with Ceres and Isis, without excepting

the most dignified virgins, were obliged to prostitute themselves, at

least once in their lives, in the porch of the temple, as an indispensa-

ble act of devotion ! without which they were accounted polluted or

unclean.

"Amongst

the

Egyptians

it

is honourable for women ,

to

prostitute themselves ; and those who have lain with many men used

to wear a bracelet about their ankles as a badge of honour ! More-

over, amongst them virgins before marriage used to gain a dower by

prostituting themselves." (Stanley's Lives, vol. iii., p. 94.) It was

in allusion to these and still more unnatural practices that induced

St. Paul to exclaim with indignation : "It is a shame even to speak

of those things which are done of them in secret!" (Eph. v., 12.)
And the same intrepid Apostle enumerates these abominable siiis in

his Epistle to the Romans, (i., 26 to end). 78 Yirg. J llM 1. iv. Ov. Metam., 1. xi. The most outrageous ex-
cesses were frequently committed by the female Bacchantes when

inflamed with wine, lust, and enthusiastic fury, (Eurip. in Bacch.,)

which they mistook for the inspiration of the jolly god. It is re-

corded that the daughters of Minya, under the furious impetus of this
diabolical fervour, slew a young man named Hippasus, and served

up his body as a banquet to the company. (Auton. Metam., 1. x.) 79 I say my Biologically, for the fact appears doubtful respecting the
violent death of Orpheus, notwithstanding the above authorities. It rather appears that he was killed by lightning ; a death, esteemed by
the ancients, as being fraught with a peculiar felicity. (Diog. Laert.

Prooem.)

110

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

tions.80 The rites passed, however, with all their contaminations, from Greece to Rome, and remained a

lasting stain to the empire, long after the establishment of
Christianity. At length the bold and frequent censures

of the Christian fathers roused the people to a sense of

shame ;

by a public edict the excesses sanctioned by

the mysteries were restrained within more decent bounds ;

and soon afterwards they were altogether suppressed

under heavy penalties.

. M Plato, speaking of the abomination of the Dionysiaca, says that he was present at one of these celebrations, and saw the whole city of Athens in a state of beastly drunkenness. (De Leg., 1. i.) Hence
the prophetical figure used in the threatened destruction of Babylon.
"In their heat I will make their feasts, and I will make them drunken,
that they may rejoice, and sleep a perpetual sleep, and not awake,
saith the Lord. (Jerem. li., 39.)

Ill

LECTURE VII.

PLACES OF INITIATION INTO THE CELTIC MYSTERIES.

IN attempting to reduce the Celtic Mysteries to order and regularity, the inquiry will be confined almost, exclusively to Druidism as practised in Britain, which contains the essence and perfection of the system; for Cesar informs us that the principles of Druidism were better understood in Britain than in Gaul ; and that it

was customary for the inhabitants of the latter country,
who wished for more perfect information on the intricate
subject of their mysterious doctrines and practies, to pass over into Britain, where accurate instruction was
alone to be obtained.1

The

name

of

these

extraordinary

2
priests

has

been

variously derived. The most commonly received opinion

is, that its origin must be ascribed to the Greek ^QVS, an

oak, because this tree was esteemed peculiarly sacred by

the Druids;3 and from its spontaneous production of the

sacred

4
misletoe,

they

believed

that

the

deity had

selected

1 Ces. de bel. Gal., 1. vi., c. 12.

2 Mr. Reuben Barrow, in the second volume of the Asiatic Re-

searches, (p. 489,) says. "That the Druids of Britain were Brahmins

is beyond

the

least

shadow of a doubt ;

but that they were all mur-

dered and their sciences lost, is out of all bounds of probability ; it is

much more likely that they turned schoolmasters, Freemasons, and

fortunetellers, and, in this way, part of their sciences might easily
descend to posterity, as we find they have done." With what feeling
towards Masonry Mr. Barrow said this, I have not the means of

determining, nor does it in the least alter the character of his asser-

tion. I shall consider the opinion as tending to illustrate the anti-

quity of the science. The Druids were schoolmasters, fortunetellers, and Freemasons also, though the name was not known in the ages when they flourished. They certainly did practise a science derived

from Freemasonry, and applied to the same object, the worship of the deity ; but deteriorated, as all institutions must necessarily be, when

the vital principle is wholly discarded.

3 Plin. Nat. Hist., 1. xvi.. c. 4.
4 The misletoe was invested with a character so holy, that it was

accounted a profanation to touch it with the finger. The ceremonies

U2

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

it from all the trees of the grove as his own peculiar residence. In the ancient British dialect, an oak was termed

Derwf in the Armorican, Deru; and hence the priests of

the oak are said to have been denominated Derwydden.

Some authors have, however, referred to other tongues

for the etymology of this title. One says it was derived

from the German Trowis, which signified a revealer of

6
truth;

another

thinks it

sprang

from

Trutis, an old

British name for the deity, and that his first priests were

hence called Truti? Mr. Smith, in his Gaelic antiquities,
concurs with Major Vallancey in deriving Druid from
Druidh, which in their own language signifies wise men,
and is still the Gaelic term for philosophers or magicians. It seems, he says, to have the same import with the name of the eastern magi, who, like the Druids and

many other religious sects, united the characters of the

philosopher, the magistrate, and the divine, making each

of

these

services

one

and

the

same

8
profession.

The system of Druidism embraced every religious and

philosophical pursuit which was then known in the

island ;

and

had

a

further

tendency to

spread

liberty,

peace, and happiness amongst mankind.9 The rites bore

an undoubted reference to the salvation of Noah and his

seven

companions

in

the

Ark

10 ;

and were

celebrated

first

used in gathering this mysterious plant were of a nature calculated to

infuse

a

sacred

reverence

deeply into

the

mind ;

and when

plucked

and ritually consecrated, it was reputed to possess every sanative

virtue ;

and was

hence

dignified with the appellation

of

All

Heal.

6 Owen's Diet. v. Derw.

6 Gerop. Becan.

7 Sammes. Brit., vol. i., p. 104.

8
Hutchinson,

Cumb.,

vol.

i.,

p.

248.

9
Meyrick,

Hist.

Cardigan,

Introduction.

10 It is a most remarkable fact, that we find in every system of anti-

quity a frequent reference to the number seven, which, from its

nature, can scarcely be ascribed to any event save that named in the

text, except it be to the institution of the Sabbath. Thus the seven

score Ogyrvens, or mystical personages, which, according to Taliesin,

pertain

to the

British muse ;

the seven score

knobs in

the collar of the

ox, (Dav. Dru., p. 523, 524.) the seven persons who returned from

Caer Sidi, in the spoils of the deep; (Ibid., p. 515.) the seven Plei-

ades; (Ovid. Fast. 5.) the seven Hyades; (Aratus. Astron.) the seven

Titans andTitanides ;

the seven Heliades of the

Greeks;

(Diod.

Bibl.,

1. v.) the seven Cabiri of the Phenicians ; the seven Amschaspands of

the Parsees; and the seven pieces into which the body of Bacchus

was torn by the Titans, (Plut. de Isid. andOsir., p. 368,) were equally

the

seven

hero-gods who

accompanied

Noah

in

the Ark ;

and these

THE CELTIC MYSTERIES.

113

by the Pheryllt, who correspond with the Telchines,the Curetes, or the Idei Dactyli of other nntiniis. The cere-
monies of initiation and worship also bore a character similar to those of the people whence they wort; derived, accommodated to the peculiar genius of the people, and amditting of various minute modifications, arising from the accidental circumstances of local situation, and the
temporary revolutions of manners and government.

corresponded with the seven Menus, the seven Pitris or Kishis, and the

seven Brahmadicas of Hindoo mythology ; and for the same reason,

perhaps, as these persons were the whole of mankind then living in'

the world, the septenary number, amongst the Cabalists, denoted

universality, and was termed by the Pythagoreans slo/nsleia. To one

of the above causes may be ascribed the origin of the seven vases in

the temple of the sun near the ruins of Babian, in Upper Egypt.

(Savary, Letters on Egypt,) the seven altars which burned continually

before the god Mithras in many of his temples : (Montf. Ant., torn,

ii.. 1. 7.) the seven holy temples of the ancient Arabians; (Sale,

Koran, Prelim. Disc., p. 22,) the seven bobuns of perfection exhibited

in

the

Hindoo

code ;

(Holwell, in

Maur.

Ind.

Ant., vol. ii., p. 331,)

with the defective knowledge of the same people which circumscribed

the whole earth within the compass of seven peninsulas, or dwipas ;
(Sacontala. Sir W. Jones. Works, vol. vi.) the seven planets of anti-

quity ; the Jewish Sephiroth consisting of seven splendours ; the

seven

Gothic deities ;

commensurate with the hebdomadal

division of

time the seven worlds of the Indians and Chaldeans and the seven

;

;

virtues cardinal and theological. (Vid. Signs and Symbols, p. 159.)

In a word, seven was always considered as a number possessed of

many mysterious properties ; and divine sacrifices were considered

most efficacious when composed of this number.

Seven bullocks yet unyoked for Phoebus clause, And for Diana, seven unspotted ewes.
DRYDEN.
And even our own Scriptures abound with innumerable instances of the authorized use of this number. At the Deluge. Noah received
seven days notice of its commencement, (Gen. vii., 4,) and was commanded to select dean beasts and fowls by sevens, while the unclean were only admitted by pairs, (Gen. vii.. 2.) On the seventh month the Ark rested on Ararat, (Gen. viii., 4,) and Noah despatched his dove at the distance of seven days each time. (Gen. viii., 10, 12.) Job and Balaam each offered sacrifices by the express command of God, consisting of seven bullocks and seven rams; (Job xlii., 8. Numb, xxiii., 1.) and this was undoubtedly conformable with the usual practice of Jewish antiquity. The destruction of Jericho was
miraculously effected by the use of this number; for seven priests bearing seven rams' horns for trumpets, were directed by the Almighty to compass the city seven days, and on the seventh to proceed round it seven times, when the walls should fall into ruin. (Josh, vi., 4, 5.) Solomon was seven years building the Temple ; (1 Kings vi., 38.) which was dedicated in the seventh month, (1 Kings

114

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

Respecting these ceremonies, the ancient historians are
not wholly silent; although we shall gather more infor-
mation from the bardic than the classical writings on this
abstruse subject. Strabo informs us that the Druids practised the rites of Samothrace.11 Mr. Faber adduces other authorities in support of the same hypothesis.
"With regard to the devotion of the Hyperboreans," says this author, "to the arkite mysteries, we are

viii., 2.) and the public festival lasted seven days. The whole machi-

nery of the Apocalypse is conducted on precisely the same principle.

The Iconisms are almost all septenary. Here the FIRST PERSON in

the sacred Trinity is represented under the figure of a glorious being

clothed with surpassing brilliancy, seated on a throne encircled by a

rainbow, (Rev. iv., 3, 4.) and receiving from the assembly of saints a
most profound adoration, in which they ascribe to Him seven degrees of beatitude. (Ib. vii., 12.) He is attended by FOUR beasts full of

eyes, emblematical of their perfect knowledge of ALL things, past,
present, and to come, Now the number four was esteemed to pos-

sess similar properties with the number seven. It signified universal-

ity amongst the Cabalists and Pythagoreans, probably because the

whole of the male kind in the Ark consisted of four persons, and it

formed the holy Tetragrammaton of the Jews. (Vid. More's Apo-

calypsis Apocalypsios, p. 92, 148.) The SECOND PERSON is described

as a majestic ancl venerable personage standing in the midst of seven

golden candlesticks, and holding in his hand seven stars, the emblems

of Light and Revelation; (Rev. ii., 1,) and in another place as a
Lamb that had been slain having seven horns and seven eyes, symbols

of universal power and knowledge ; and receiving from the heavenly

host a loud acknowledgment of seven potencies. (Ib. v., 6. 12.) And

the THIRD PERSON is described as seven lamps of fire, which are the

seven Spirits of God. (Ib. iv., 5.) Again, the Apocalypse con-

tains seven Synchronisms, which were preceded by a succession,

of woes addressed to seven churches, (Ib. i.. 4,) recorded in a book

with seven seals, (Ib. v., 1,) denounced by seven angels to the sound

of seven trumpets, (Ib. viii. ,2,) and revealed by seven thunders or ora-

cular voices. (Ib. x., 3.) The wrath of God against the idolatrous

world, is let loose by seven angels having seven plagues inclosed in

seven golden vials. (Ib. xv., 1, 7.) Idolatry is represented under the

figure of a scarlet-coloured beast having seven heads, to represent

probably the seven mountains on which Rome and Constantinople, the
two capital cities of " the mistress of the world" were respectively

founded ;

(Ib. xvii., 9.)

and seven idolatrous

kings, or seven forms of

polytheism are pointed out for destruction. (Ib. xvii., 10.) This

very extraordinary and universal application of the number seven, as

I have already observed, must have originated either in a tradition

borne away from Shinar by every tribe who wandered in search of a

new

settlement,

respecting

the

institution

of the

Sabbath ;

and

it

must be observed that almost all idolatrous nations kept holy the

seventh day ; (Vid. Usher on the Sabbath, p. 73,) or the seven herogods who were saved with Noah in the Ark.

11 Strabo. Geogr., 1. iv.

THfi CELTIC MYSTERIES.

11-5

plainly informed by Dionysius, that the rites of Bacchus and Noah were duly celebrated in Britain. Hence arose

their veneration for the bull, the constant symbol of the

deity of the Ark

To the testimony of

Dionysius, I shall add the authority of Artemidorus

concerning those (mysteries) of two other Cabiric

deities. In an island, says he, close to Britain, (by

which, in all probability, he meant Anglesey, the

chosen seat of superstition,) Ceres and Proserpine are

venerated with rites similar to the Orgies of Samo-

thrace. This island was dedicated, as we learn from

Mnaseas, to the Cabiri ; and he further informs us that

Ceres, Proserpine, and Bacchus were reckoned in the number of these deities. Hence it evidently appears, that the gods of Britain were the same as the Cabiri of

Samothrace ;

and, consequently, whatever observations

are applicable to the latter are no less applicable to the former." 12
" Dr. Borlase has traced a surprising uniformity in the

temples, priests, doctrines, and worship of the Persian magi and the British Druids. This conformity, indeed, is

so striking and extraordinary, that Pelloutier, in his

history of the Celts, will have it that the Persians and

the

Celts

were

originally one

and

the

same

13
people.

Major Vallancey is of the same opinion; adding that

the Druids first flourished in the east in Hindoostan as ;

Brahmins ;

in Babylon

and

Syria

as

Chaldeans ;

and in

Persia

as

Magi

14 ;

and from thence

came

hither with

that

12 Fab. Mys. Cab., vol. i., p. 210, 214, with authorities.
13 And both were derived from the same common source. "A

celebrated grammarian has remarked, Nee modo Indicam, Persicam

Syram, Arabicam, Hebrae junctissimas linguas; sed et Gothicam, seu
Celticam, linguam ; and Roland, in his Mona, asserts, that no less than three hundred Hebrew radices are to be found in the British tongue alone. From this list I shall select a few only which must carry conviction of their primaeval derivation. For instance, who can doubt of the British word Booth, a cottage, being derived from the Hebrew

Beth, a house; the earth from Eretz; to babble, from Babel, allud-

ing to the confusion of tongues ; Cist, from Cis, a chest ; Dagger, from Dakar, a short sword; the British Kern, or Corn, a horn, from

Keren ; Cromlech, a sacrificial stone of the Druids, fromCeremluach,

a burying-stone ; and Sarph, an old British word for serpent, from

the Hebrew Saraph." (Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. vi., p. 37.)

14 The Druid and the Dervise possessed many qualities in common.

"
Sacerdotum,"

says Keysler,

"
genus

apud Turcas ab antiquissimus

temporibus conservatum Dervis, et nomine et re Druidis." (Antiq.

Septentr., p. 36.)

116

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

great body of Persian Scythians, whom the Greeks call

Phenicians." These opinions, collected by Mr. Hutch-

15
inson,

can only prove

that

the nations

agreed as

to

the

practice of similar rites and ceremonies in the adminis-

tration of religious worship ; for the Druids nourished in

Gaul and Britain, at least coeval with the planting of

many other nations, from which theorists have conjec-

tured they

might derive

their

16
original.

Besides, these

several people paid their devotions to different objects

of worship; some were Sabians, and worshipped the

host of heaven; others were magians, and confined

their adoration to the solar fire ; two sects which always

entertained the utmost contempt and hatred for each

other's

17
principles.

The testimonies, however, are amply

sufficient to point out the analogy which subsisted in

early times between the mysterious institutions of those

15 Hist. Cumb., vol. i., 247.
16 The first people who settled in Britain are said to have been led
hither by Gomer, or some of his immediate descendants. (Turn. Angl. Sax., vol. i., p. 14.) If this be true, Britain received its population very soon after the Dispersion. The continent of Europe was
peopled by the children of Dodanim, the grandson of Japheth ; and by the operation of some or all of the causes resulting from a redund-

ant population, the surplus being pressed to the sea coast of Gaul, our
island was discovered in the distance, and a wandering tribe called the Hord Gaeli, who, on a casual visit, named it the Watergirt Green
Plot, according to the testimony of the Welsh Bards having been
tempted to take possession of it, found it so rich and beautiful that they changed the name to the Honey Island. I have the authority of Sammes for saying that this took place about A. M. 1910, the exact period when Ninus founded the kingdom of Assyria, or a little before Abraham first went into the land of Canaan. This tribe was

subsequently dispossessed by a stronger party, under the command

of Prydain, the son of Aedd the Great, who, collecting together some

scattered tribes of the Cymri who were friendly to his interests,

made an inroad upon the island, and took an undisputed possession.

Its name

was once more changed to

Prydain

or Britain ;

and he

sub-

divided it into three parts, and placed in them as viceroys three of

his most distinguished followers, at the head of their respective
tribes. First the Cymri, who came with Hu the mighty. These

introduced arts and civilization, and inhabited Wales. The second tribe who settled in the island were the Lloegrians. They came from

Gwasgwyn. and were descended from the primitive nation of the

Cymri, and took possession of England. The Brython, descended

from the same stock, came from the land of Llydaw, and

peopled Scotland. Hence the Britons adopted the ternary

division of the island which it has ever since retained and called ;

the several portions Lloeger, Cymru, and Alban, corresponding with

England, Wales, and Scotland.

17 Vid. Prid. Connect., vol. i., p. 226.

THE CELTIC MYSTERIES.

117

countries, which were formed by the migration of the

first

descendants

of

Noah

and

his

18
family.

The Druids did not worship idols in the human shape,

because they held that the divinity, being invisible,

ought to be adored without being seen. But we are

told that they did occasionally erect, like the primi-

tive

Buddhists

of

the

19
east,

in retired places,

statues of

Isis20 or

Ceridwen ;

which must

have been gigantic

21
stones,

rough

as

when

taken

from

the

22
quarry,

the

Betulia

of

the

eastern

23
nations,

which

are

ritually con-

secrated, and invested with peculiar and distinctive pro-

perties. These stones, so highly venerated, 24 so enthu-

siastically adored, were the representations of the great

British deities, whose abundant merits have been so

extravagantly eulogized by the bards. These deities, by what variety of names soever they may have been designated, all melt into two, a male and a female, the great
father and mother,25 who were worshipped under the
appellation of Hu and Ceridwen, and bore the same

conspicuous character with the Egyptian Osiris and

Isis ;

the

Grecian

Bacchus and Rhea, or any

other

supreme god and goddess who represented the great

father and mother of mankind in the mysteries of idola-

trous antiquity.

18 Vid. Mi supra, 1. i.

19 Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. ii., p. 340.

20 The Scandinavians had a goddess of this name. (01. Rudbeck.

Atlant., vol. ii., p. 212.) 21 " Several of the idols of the old Arabs," says Sale, in his Pre-

liminary Discourse to the Koran, "were no more than large, rude

stones, the worship of which the posterity of Ishmael first intro-

duced

These stones they at first only compassed out of

devotion ;

but at last it ended

in

rank idolatry ;

the Ishmaelites for-

getting the religion left them by their father so far as to pay divine

worship to any stone they met with." Captain Hamilton describes

one of the idols in the Indian Temple of Jagun-nath, as being "a

huge black stone of a pyramidal form ;" or, in other words, a stone

pillar.

" The

mighty

pile

of

22
Bryant. Anal., magic planted rock

vol.

i.,

p.

13.

Thus rang'd in mystic order, marks the place

Where, but at times of holiest festival

The Druid leads his train."

MASON.

24 Dr. Gordon informs us that the Irish peasants still pay these

We stones an awful respect. (Hutch. Cumb., vol. i., p. 243.)

25

find Pindar (Nem. Od. 6.) asserting the dignity of the great

mother, where he says that all the gods as well as men sprang from

her fruitful womb.

118

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

All rocks containing an aperture, whether natural or

26
artificial,

were

thought

to

convey purification,

because

they equally shadowed out the door of the Ark through

which the favoured few issued into a renovated world ;

and it is worthy of remark, that the same belief distin-

quished every ancient nation ; for all practised the helio-

arkite superstition, and all alike admitted the regenerating properties of the consecrated orifice.27 They varied,

however, in proportion with the supposed sanctity of the

petrae, arising from the solemnity of the rites of conse-

cration. Thus a natural cavity in a rock unhallowed by

the sacred ceremonial, was of inferior virtue to an artifi-

cial pastos, erected ritually, consecrated with holy oil, and dedicated to a religious use ; and as soon as a pastos was thus anointed, it acquired the distinguishing name
of lapis ambrosius. 2*
A considerable degree of sanctity was attached to
small islands in the centre of a consecrated lake. Float-

ing islands, considered as the residence of a happy and

20 On the estate of the Right Hon. C. T. D'Eyncourt, M. P., at

Bayon's Manor, near Market Rasen, in Lincolnshire, is a petra

ambrosia consisting, of a gigantic upright stone, resting on a slender

basis, at the foot of which another stone has been placed, hollowed
out so as to form an aperture of sufficient dimensions for a man to

creep through. It stands in a commanding situation, on the bold brow of a hill, and has, doubtless, been used by the Druids in the

performance of their sacred rites.

27 This was the abomination referred to by the prophet Isaiah, where he denounces the holes of the rocks, and the caves of the earth,

as insufficient to avert the indignation of the Almighty. (Isai. ii 19.)

Borlase (Ant. Cornw., p. 167) thus explains the probable use of these

Tolmen :

he

says,

" It

is

not

improbable

but

the

holed stone

served

for

libations ;

to

initiate

and dedicate children to the offices

of rock-

worship by drawing them through this hole, and also to purify the

victim

before it was

sacrificed ;

and, considering

the

many

lucrative

juggles of the Druids, it is not wholly improbable that some miraculous

restoration to health might be promised to the people for themselves and children, upon proper pecuniary gratifications, provided that at a

certain season of the moon, and whilst a priest officiated at one of the

stones adjoining, with pra}-ers adapted to the occasion, they would draw their children through the hole."
28 The city of Tyre, according to Stukeley, was built by Hercjalos on

a spot where a petra ambrosias stood, which were two hollow rocks,

shaded by an olive

tree ;

and,

accordingly,

on

the ancient

Tyrian

coins we find these ambrosial petrse represented overshadowed by

an olive tree; and on the reverse, Hercules offering a sacrifice of

dedication.

THE CELTIC MYSTERIES.

119

perfect people, bore an allusion to the garden of Eden,
where Adam dwelt in a state of absolute felicity ; arid, perhaps, also to the then known world, whicli was in
reality an immense island ; and, therefore, the places of mysterious celebration were frequently constructed in such situations.29 They bore a reference also to the Ark,

29 The interior recesses of the insular sanctuary were considered as

the seat of every supernal delight. Here the heavens had exhausted

their stores to confer gifts on their favoured and chosen residence.

Mr. Davies has given a description of these distinguished privileges

in the translation of a Mabinogion, which I shall transcribe, after

remarking that its contents are corroborated by a testimony from a

quarter the least expected. The Hindoos have a tradition current

amongst them, that the gardens of the Hesperides are situated in the

British

Isles ;

and

the

beauties

of

this

imaginary paradise,

as

we are

told by Mr. Wilford, are described in strains of the most exaggerated

panegyric; greatly exceeding even the legend here subjoined. "In

ancient times, it is said, a door in a rock near this lake, was found

open upon a certain day every year. I think it was May day. Those

who had the curiosity and resolution to enter, were conducted by a

secret passage, which terminated in a small island, in the centre of the

lake. Here the visitors were surprised with the prospect of a most

enchanting garden, stored with the choicest fruits and flowers, and

inhabited by the Tylvvyth Teg, or fair family, a kind of fairies, whose

beauty could be equalled only by the courtesy and affability which

they exhibited to those who pleased them. They gathered fruit and

flowers for each of their guests, entertained them with the most

exquisite music, disclosed to them many events of futurity, and invited

them to stay as long as they should find their situation agreeable.

But the island was sacred, and nothing of its produce must be carried

away. The whole of this scene was invisible to those who stood

without the margin of the lake. Only an indistinct mass was seen

in the middle ; and it was observed that no bird would fly over the

water, and that a soft strain of music, at times, breathed with raptu-

rous sweetness in the breeze of the mountain. It happened upon one

of these annual visits, that a sacrilegious wretch, when he was about

to leave the garden, put a flower, with which he had been presented, into his pocket ; but the theft boded him no good. As soon as he

had touched unhallowed ground, the flower vanished, and he lost his

senses. Of this injury the fair family took no notice at the time.

They dismissed their guests with their accustomed courtesy, and the

door was closed as usual. But their resentment ran high. For

though, as the tale goes, the Tylvvyth Teg and their garden undoubt-

edly occupy the spot to this day though the birds still keep at a

respectful distance from the lake, and some broken strains of music

are still heard at times, yet the door which led to the island has never

re-appeared ; and, from the date of this sacrilegious act, the Cymri have been unfortunate." It is added, that " Some time after this, an

adventurous person attempted to draw off the water, in order to

discover its contents, when a terrific form arose from the midst of the

lake, commanding him to desist, or otherwise he would drown the

country." (Dav. Dru., p. 155.)

120

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

which, at the time of the Deluge, was the sole existing

place of habitation, and contained the whole human race. Each of these islands bore the mysterious name of

Avanc, and drawing it out of the lake with a yoke of

oxen, attended by many mystical ceremonies, formed one

of

the

principal

rites

of

the

Druidical

30
religion.

In every

nation of the world, water was profusely used during the

initiations; and hence the propriety of the British custom

of performing their celebrations in the centre of a lake.

It had a twofold

reference ;

first, to

the

diluvian waters

which cleansed the earth from its impurities by a general

lustration 31 ;

and

secondly,

as

the

external

medium

of

purification by which the Mystas were ritually regenerated.32 It was a maxim with the Druids, that water

was the first principle of all things, and existed before

the Creation in unsullied purity ; but that its perfect
qualities were diminished when it became blended with

the

earth

at

its

original

formation

out

of

chaos ;

and

hence it was believed that water lost some portions of

its purifying qualities by contact with the earth, which

was considered the very principle of contamination ; and,

30 Vid. Signs and Symbols, Lect. 5. Hist, of Beverley pp. 14 41.

31 1 Pet. iii., 20, 21. Grot, in Matt, iii., 6. 32 Nothing could be more universal than this practice.

The Jewish

religion and all the systems $f Paganism, however diversified in other

respects, held equally the necessity of repeated ablutions to cleanse

the soul from moral defilement. From the plains of India to the

utmost regions of the West, this doctrine was implicitly received; originating, most probably, from some uniform practice which accom-

panied the patriarchal performance of religious rites anterior to the

general dispersion from Babel. It was believed by the Druids that

the earth was the great principle of contamination, and that every thing was polluted, in a greater or less degree, which had communica-

tion with it. Even the stone deities were superincumbent on other

stones, lest they should

be

subject

to

defilement ;

but when the

Mediator of the Christian covenant came into the world to restore the

true religion, and to show that ritual pollutions and purifications were

at an end, he clothed his divinity with earthly flesh, by being born of a woman, and yet, received no contamination, for he was free from

every imputation of

sin ;

and in his doctrine

strongly and constantly

inculcated that man's defilement was not derived from anything

external, but that it proceeded from the heart. The Pharisees used

many ablutions to cleanse ceremonial impurity. They taught that to perform even the common offices of life without washing, was sinful. This doctrine was condemned by Him who knoweth the' most

secret thoughts of every heart; and he openly proclaimed that their

frequent washings could never atone for sin.

THE CELTIC MYSTERIES.

121

therefore, to secure to themselves a certain supply of this element unpolluted with any impure alloy, they used to scoop hollows or cavities on the upper surface of certain

elevated stones to catch the waters of heaven before they

reached

the

33
ground.

Kain was preferred to river water,

snow to rain, and ice to snow. These rock basons were

hence invested with a peculiar degree of sanctity, and
were always attached to their temples, or places of initi-
ation, when not situated on a lake34 or river of water.

The Britons had the utmost veneration for a grove of

35
oaks,

and

here the most sacred places of religious cele-

bration were constructed f6 particularly if hills or moun-

33 Borl. Ant. Corn., b. iii., c. 11, p. 225.

34 Sir Walter Scott has woven this superstition into a most beautiful

Poem (Lady of the Lake), attended with all the machinery of initia-

tion. The island in the lake called Loch Katrine (Ketturin). which

signifies the Gate of Hell, and in India and some other countries was

but another name

for

the

Pastes ;

and Brownie's cavern (Coir Uris-

kin), for the whole superstition of the brownies was but a remnant o

the stories of initiation; the Lady in the boat, and the range of

caverns which the island .contained, are all indications of this fact. Mr. Stuart, the guide to this lake island, and scenery, says, " In the

bosom of a rock south of the Pass, there was a cave where an outlaw

named Fletcher resided many years ; but, though tradition is so par-

ticular with regard to its situation, as to describe minutely the different

views which it commanded, he said he had entirely lost the entrance

of it, though he had searched for it with the utmost care." (Hogg's

Tales, vol. i., p. 150.) The island is called Rough Island, and the

attendant spirit is like a satyr or goat. (Lady of the Lake, Notes,

p. 355.)

35 Lucan. Pharsal., 1. iii.

36 The sacred grove was a primitive place of devotional celebration.

Abraham planted a grove of trees as a retreat of silence, solitude, and

prayer; but the same practice having been subsequently used by

idolaters, and their groves converted to the most horrible and revolt-

ing purposes, the denunciations of heaven were launched against

consecrated groves in general. The Israelites were not only forbidden

to plant them, but their destruction was enjoined in every country which they conquered. It was accounted sin in the Hebrew monarchs

if they presumed to sacrifice in groves ; and it is said of Ahab, that he

did more to provoke the Lord to anger than any of his predecessors,

.because, amongst other acts of iniquity, he made a consecrated grove.

The first patriarchs also worshipped in groves of oak (Gen. xviii., 1,

4, 8. xxi., 33. Josh, xxiv., 26) ; but the custom was subsequently

condemned, because it led to disorder an/ prostitution. (Deut. xvi.,

21. Isai. i.. 29. Hosea iv., 12, 13, 14.; In the idolatrous nations a

grove was essential to divine worship. (Diod. Sic., 1. xvii. Quint.

Curt., 1. iv., c. 7. Strabo. Geogr., 1. viii.) Pindar (Olymp. x., 52,) introduces Hercules as planting a sacred grove ; and in India, groves

of olive were planted in the most venerated situations. (Asiat. Res.,

vol. vi., p. 524.) In a wor.d, as I have many times observed, idolatry

was nothing but a perversion of the patriarchal rites.

122

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

tains were

found within

the

compass

of the

inclosure ;

for it is well known that these eminences were highly

venerated by the Druids in common with the rest of

mankind ;

partly from an idea that the tops of hills made

a nearer approach to the heavens, from whence the deity

could more perfectly hear their prayers ; and partly from

a faint remembrance of an old tradition of the Deluge,

and probably of the burning bush, which induced a belief

that mountains were the consecrated residence of the

57
deity;

but

principally

because

the

conical

mountain,

variously diversified, was considered an apt representa-

tion of the union of the 4wo great generative principles

personified

at

the

38
Deluge.

The mountain with one

37 It may be here remarked, that mountain-worship was common with the antediluvian patriarchs, and was followed by Noah (Gen.

viii., 20) on the mount where the Ark rested, and where the parents of mankind resided after their deliverance from danger ; by Abraham

(Gen. xii., 8), who performed an act of worship on Mount Moriah, at the express command of God (Gen. xxii., 2); and again by Moses on

Mounts

Horeb

(Ex.

iii. 5

1)

and

Sinai

(ib. xix.)

This custom was

soon imitated by those nations which had "renounced the true God.

(Numb, xxii., 41. xxiii., 14. 27, 28.) When Philip II. made war

against the Spartans, he sacrificed on the two mountains of Olympus

and Eva. (Polyb., 1. v.) Cyrus sacrificed to the gods on a mountain

just before his death. (Cyrop., 1. viii.) So in the Iliad Hector does

the same. (II. xxii., 171.) The Persians worshipped on mountains

(Strabo., 1. xv.) ; and 2300 years before our era, sacrifices were offered

in China to the supreme god Chan-Ti, on four great mountains, called

the four Yo. The sovereigns, linding it inconvenient to go thither in

person, caused eminences representing these mountains to be erected

by the hands of men, near their habitations. (Voyage of Macartney,

vol. i., p. 58.) The American savages used the same custom. (Hum-
boldt's Research, in Amer., vol. ii., p. 244.) " In short, every towering
hill was reckoned holy ; and we are assured by Melanthes, that it was

the universal practice of the ancients to offer sacrifice on the highest

mountains, to him who was accounted the highest god." (Nat. Corn.,

1. i., c. 10, apud Fab Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 200.) The Israelites,

too, when they fell into idolatry, adopted the same custom, and wor-

shipped the host of heaven on mountains (2 Kings xiv., 4.

Jerem. ii.,

20. Ezek. vi., 2, 3), though it was absolutely forbidden in the law of

Moses (Deut. xii., 2). 38 This system of veneration was not peculiar to Britain, but was
common to all the idolatrous 'nations of the earth. When the Ark, or

female principle, with the whole human race in her womb, floated on

the

surface

of

the

diluvian waters ;

the

male

principle, or

the

great

father, was

placed

in the

centre of

the

lunette

as

a

mast ;

and thus

the two principles united floated in safety over the earth (Wilf. on M.

Cauc. in Asiat. Res., vol. vi., p. 521) ; and when the waters had sub

sided, they remained firmly fixed on a rock, which the superstition o

THE CELTIC MYSTERIES.

123

peak only, represented the male principle; with two
peaks, the figurative lunette or Ark, symbolized the
female principle; and with three, the two principles
united.39

each nation feigned to be within its own boundaries. When a moun-
tain was adorned with three peaks, therefore, it was accounted perfect, and worthy of superior veneration, from its apt representation of this union of the sexes, which furnished the natural means by which the world was repeopted. (Yid. Signs and Symbols, Lect. 9.) Perfect
specimens of all these varieties of mountains are frequent in the counties of Lancaster, Cumberland, and Westmoreland; and I cannot
but think that this part of the island was a favourite resort of the

druids j

for they contained every requisite in vast

abundance

for

the

practice of their religious rites.

The rivers and lakes ;

the many

natural

caverns and excavations ;

the numerous

specimens of the holy

mountain in every possible variety ; afforded such a combination of

natural facilities for the exercise of their mysterious celebrations, that

they could not be overlooked by that acute and politic order of men.

Accordingly, we find, in the stupendous monuments with which these

counties still abound, the most positive traces of Druidical ingenuity

in all its several

forms ;

whether consisting of stone or

earthen

tem-

ples, the cromlech or the kistvaen. the logan or the tumulus, the seat

of justice or the sacred grove: all being unquestionable evidences of

A Druidical habitation.

learned and indefatigable writer, whose

opinions claim every attention some of the southern counties.

a"nNdumreesrpoeucts,

says the same thing of remains of stone circles,

cromlechs, rocking stones and tumuli still exist in the Scilly islands,

and are continued along the coast of Cornwall and Dorset, to the

widely-extended

plains

of

Wiltshire ;

all,

from

their

rudeness, be-

speaking a very ancient, and, I may pronounce, a Celtic origin; and

corresponding in a very striking degree with those on the opposite

shores of our mother country Gaul." (Hoare's Ancient Wilts., vol.

)P i.

.

12.)

We 39

are indebted to Capt. Wilford for bringing to light a recorded

tradition of the Hindoos, that the British Druids held mountains and lakes in superior veneration from the causes just enumerated. " Britain," says this author, " was termed by the Indians, Tricatachel, or

the mountain with three peaks ; and was hence considered as a place

of peculiar sanctity. England was denominated, Rajata-Dweep ; Scot-

land, Scuteya-D weep; and Ireland. Suvarna-Dweep. The pitris, or

primitive

fathers, were

said

to

reside in

Suvarna ;

and

their place of

abode was either on the summit of a mountain, or in a cave called

Maha Dewa, in an island situate in the midst of a lake, whose waters

were reputed bitter. From this cave issued a long passage into the

infernal regions. Here the souls of their deceased ancestors were

invoked." This is a correct account of a place of initiation, and is

thought to have a reference to the celebrated Purgatory of St. Patrick,

in Lough Derg, in Ireland, into which no person was allowed to enter

without first undergoing all the ceremonies of purification and prepara-

tion. This purgatory, according to the opinion of Mr. Faber (Myst.

Cab., vol. ii., p. 392), was, doubtless, a place appropriated to the per-

formance of the rites of Druidism. It will be remembered that the

124

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

The places of initiation and worship were generally either circular, because a circle was a significant emblem

of the universe, governed and preserved by an omnipre-

sent deity, who is described in the writings of Hermes

Trismegistus, as a circle4* whose centre is every where,

and whose circumference is

no

where ;

and

pointed

out

the unity of the godhead ; a doctrine distinctly asserted

by the

Druids 41 ;

or

42
oval,

in

allusion

to the

mundane

holy mountain was considered the sacred ascent to Elysium ; and the
cave or womb led downwards to Hades. The most ancient monu-

ment of British antiquity at Abury, in Wiltshire, was constructed on

two eminences ; and to complete the allusion, a gigantic mound, called
Silbury hill, was thrown up, so as to form a triangle with the other two, thus constituting the sacred three-peaked temple. The hill at Karn-bre, in Cornwall, is furnished by Nature with three distinct and beautiful peaks, and hence became an early object of superstitious

reverence, which the Druids appear to have exhausted all their ingenuity in adorning with a profusion of sacred embellishments. Here
was a consecrated grove of oaks, furnished with solar temples, caverns

of initiation, thrones, phalli, altars, adyta, inclosures, rock basons for the water of purification, and every requisite for public worship and

the celebration of the mysteries on a grand scale; for the \yhole extent of this magnificent establishment comprehended an area of more

than four miles in circumference. (Borl. Ant. Corn., p. 113.) It
may be here observed, that the grove was sacred to the celestial, the

altar to the terrestrial, and the cell to the infernal deities. (Maur.

Ind. Ant, vol. ii., p. 317.)

40 The usual appellation given by the bards to the sacred inclosure

of an open temple, was

the mundane circle ;

and Faber says

that the

Ark was

called, the circle of the

world ;

it follows, therefore,

the

open

circular temple was a representation of the Ark.

41 Specimens of the circular temple are common in this country; but

the most stupendous specimen is exhibited at Stonehenge, on Salis-

bury Plain, which was anciently denominated Caer Gaur, or the Great Cathedral, or the mundane ark, and was intended probably as a place

of general assembly for the detached communities throughout the

kingdom at their grand triennial meetings. Surrounded by a deep ditch and lofty mounds, the interior space was divided, like most other

edifices of peculiar sanctity, into three

seperate

inclosures ;

an outer

and inner court, and an adytum ; the first for the people, the second

for the priests, and the third for the chief Druid alone. The entrance

to this wonderfuHemple was by an avenue towards the north-east, which to this day is accurately defined by a bank of earth on each side

extending to a considerable distance from the temple, and forming at

the end a double avenue one branch of which communicated with ;

what is now termed the

Cursus ;

but I should

think that this

space is

probably the site of the sacred buildings. At a short distance from

the circle was a huge stone, sixteen feet in height, which was doubtless

the presiding deity of the place ; a vestige of the Buddhic supersti-

tion ;

(Hesych. Lex. apud. Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. ii.. p. 375,)

and about

THE CELTIC MYSTERIES.*

125

egg ; though the instances of this form are of rare occur-

rence, the adytum being more frequently oviform than

the

Temple;

or

43
serpentine,

because a serpent was the

one hundred feet further in the entrance into the outer court was

another stone of about twenty feet in height. Within the ditch was a

green walk of one hundred and five feet in breadth, which encompassed

the whole structure ; and this was probably circumambulated by the

aspiraut during the process of initiation. The building itself consisted

of two concentric circles, formed of upright and cross stones of gigan-

tic size, the largest being twenty-five feet in height, and of a propor-

tionate breadth and thickness. "The bulk very great," says Stukeley, (Stonehenge, c.

o1f.)th"ethcaotnstthietumeonrttapiasrets

is so and

tenons must have been prepared to an extreme nicety ; and like the

fabric of Solomon's Temple, every stone tallied, and neither axes nor

hammers were heard upon the whole structure." The outer circle was

one hundred feet in diameter, and consisted of sixty stones, alluding

to the sexagenary cycle of the Asiatics: one half being uprights and

the other imposts; the inner circle between eighty and ninety feet in

diameter, containing forty stones, in allusion probably to the forty days prevalence of the diluvian waters. The adytum was oval, because an egg was the constant symbol of the world ; the outer oval consisted of ten stones, because ten was a perfect number, and amongst the Pytha-
goreans denoted Heaven, as being the perfection of all things, and the inner oval contained nineteen stones, referring to the cycle of the Sun and Moon, the two great arkite deities. The adytum contained an

altar.

43 The remains of a small temple of this kind, consisting of sixty
stones, is still in existence at Addingham, in Cumberland, called Long Meg and her daughters. The transverse diameter from east to west is one hundred yards ; and the conjugate from north to south, eighty.
On tho south side, at about the distance of twenty-three yards, stands
the stone called Long Meg, five yards high, and five yards in girt, which was the idol or object of worship.
43 The temple of Abury, one of the most stupendous erections which ancient Britain could boast, and whose loss is a national calamity, was constructed in the form of a circle, to which a vast Serpent was at-

tached. It is considered to have been one of the earliest structures

erected in Britain, but now, alas ! totally desolated, and scarcely any vestiges of its existence remain. Its name may probably have been
derived from the Cabiri, as Parkhurst. in loc. ingeniously supposes j
because the Cabiric rites were undoubtedly celebrated within its pre-
cincts. Cabiri, or Abiri, signifies the Mighty Ones j and the mysteries were dedicated to those benevolent deities who invented and propagated the arts which elevated man from a savage to a civilized state of being. This extraordinary monument of British ingenuity and perseverance, was erected on the summit of an eminence, in the centre of an extensive plain, and consisted of a great circle, enclosed with a
stupendous vallum of earth, within which was a deep ditch. The area of this part of the temple was twenty -eight acres. On the interior bank was placed a circle of massive unhewn grey stones, generally about twenty feet in height. Within this principal circle were two
Smaller double concentric circles of stones, each seven feet high. In

126

* HISTORY OF INITIATION.

symbol of the deity, who was no other than the diluvian

patriarch ,Noah, consecrated by the Druids under the

name of Hu; and the common emblem of a serpent

entwining himself over an egg, was intended to represent

Hu preserved in the Ark ; or winged,44 to figure the motion

of

the

divine spirit ;

or

45
cruciform,

because

a

cross was

the

the centre of one of these was a tall phallus, twenty-one feet in height,

and eight feet nine inches in diameter; and within the other was a cell

A or adytum.

grand avenue, planted with large masses of stone, one

hundred in number on each side, at regular distances, proceeded from

the south-east part of this circle, which continued in a curvilineal form,

for

more

than

a

mile,

and

terminated

in

a

chapel

or

cell ;

and

from

the

south-west of the temple proceeded another avenue in a contrary

direction, for about the same distance, tapering towards the end, and terminating in the valley. About the centre of this latter avenue was

placed a cove or

pastos, facing the

south-east ;

the

stones composing

which are still called by the country people, the Devil's Quoits. Each

avenue being on an inclined plane, a person advancing towards the temple would have on all sides a most advantageous view of it. Thus it formed the compound figure of a snake transmitted through a circle,

an unquestionable emblem of the deity, according to the creed of all

ancient nations.

The

circle

represented the Demiurgus

or Creator ;

and the serpent referred to the divine emanation, to whose wisdom

the government of the universe was entrusted. (Maur. Ind. Ant., vol.

iv., p. 693.) Faber, however, is of opinion that the ring represented the Ark, or Ceridwen ; and the snake the great serpent-god Hu. (Pag.

Idol., vol. i., p. 193.) The avenue terminated with the head of the

snake, which was curiously situated on the apex of Hackpen hill, which

anciently derived its name from this circumstance; for, in the old

language, hac signifies a snake. (Hoare's Wiltshire,) and pen, the ex-

tremity, or head, (Owen's Diet., v. Pen.) whence hac-pen, the head of

the snake. The country people still hold this hill in high veneration ;

and the little sanctuary which formed the serpent's head is still fresh

in their memory, having only very lately been destroyed. The whole

length of this magnificent structure was nearly three miles. Vid.

Stukeley's Abury,

and letter to Mr.

Gale ;

and Hoare's Anc. Wilts to ;

which works I have been principally indebted for the above account

of this temple. Silbury hill, an artificial mound of earth, measuring

two thousand and twenty-seven feet in circumference at the base, one
hundred and twenty feet in diameter at the top; one hundred and seventy feet in perpendicular height ; three hundred and sixteen feet in sloping height, and covering five acres of land, was erected in the middle, between the head and tale of the snake, as an appendage to the temple. Sir R. C. Hoare thinks it was a hill-altar.
44 Stukeley mentions a winged temple which he found at Navestock,

in Essex ;

(Knave, from Canaph, or Kneph, the winged

serpent

deity

of Egypt;) and says he doubts not but there are many such temples

in the Britannic isles. Toland mentions a winged Druid-temple in one

of the Shetland islands.

45 At Classcrmss in the island of Lewis, Scotland, is a specimen of this cruciform temple. It has a circle consisting of twelve stones ; and

THE CELTIC MYSTERIES.

127

symbol of regeneration and life. They were variously

constructed as to the materials used in their composition.

In countries where stone was plentiful, they were composed of immense lumps of that substance, unhewn;

but where stone was scarce, rude banks of earth were'

substituted, and the Temple was formed of a high val-

lum and ditch. But in the great national Temples,

trouble and expence were not considered, and the two

forms were always united; the circle of rough stones,

unpolluted

with

a

metal

46
tool,

was

encompassed

by

a

high

embankment, and guarded generally by a deep ditch.

They were uncovered, because the Druids thought it

absurd to confine the Omnipotent Deity within the walls

three each on the east, west, and south sides placed in right lines ; while on the north is a double row of twice nineteen stones in two
perpendicular parallel lines, forming a superb avenue, with a single elevated stone at the entrance. The whole number of stones was
sixty. In the centre of the temple stands, in an elevated situation, the gigantic representative of the deity, to which the adoration of the worshippers was peculiarly directed. (Borl. Ant. Corn., p. 193.)

/

v

I

B

I

'V

/

Another cruciform temple, of a different description, is found at New

Grange, in Ireland.

46 There appears to have been a peculiar pollution attached to the

use of metal tools in the construction of the early temples. The

Almighty commanded Moses from the mount to raise a simple altar of

earth ;

and if that

should

not

prove

sufficiently

permanent, he was

directed to form it of unhewn stone, lest it should be polluted by the use of an iron tool. (Ex. xx., 25.) And David, long afterwards, lament-

ed the destruction of the intended temple, which he foresaw would

be effected by the axes and hammers of the surrounding idolaters.

(Psalm Ixxiv., 6.) The temple itself, though an unequalled monument

/of riches and architectural magnificence, was put together without

the assistance of ax ;

hammer, or any metal

tool.

(1 Kings vi., 7.)

128

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

f of a religious edifice and were doubtless erected at

the instance and under the direction of this priesthood

to add dignity and authority to the rites of the national

religion ; and hence the most herculean labours were per-

formed in their construction.48 Attached to the temple

was generally placed a stone more elevated and of supe-

rior dimensions to the rest, which was worshipped as the

representative

of

the

49
deity.

The general name of the sanctuary where the peculiar mysteries of Ceridwen were formally celebrated was Cacr

Sidij

the

circle

of revolution ;

so

called

from

the

well

known

form

of

the

Druidical

50
temples.

It appears ex-

tremely

probable that this

51
sanctuary

consisted of a

range

47 This method of erecting temples consecrated to the celebration

of divine rites, was consonant with primitive usage; for the most early

patriarchal temples consisted of twelve stones placed in the open air,

Vid. Ex.
(

xxiv., 4 ;

Josh. iv., 9.) but the Druids added to the magnifi-

cence of their religious edifices, by an increased number of stones,

arranged with an allusion to astronomical calculations. They consisted

chiefly of three, seven, twelve, nineteen, thirty, sixty, and one hundred

and twenty stones, exclusive of the detached phalli which occupied

places out of the circumference. Three referred to the divine triad
Hu Ceridwin Creirwy; seven to the seven heavens which they

taught

were

placed

in

the

upper regions

of

the

air ;

twelve

to

the

twelve

signs of the Zodiac; nineteen to the Metonic cycle ; thirty to the famous

age

or

generation

of

the

Druids ;

sixty

to

the

sexagenary

cycle

of India,

with which they were undoubtedly acquainted ; and one hundred and

twenty to the double sexagenary.

48 It is asserted by Stukeley, that at the present time it would cost

20,000 to throw up such a mound as Silbury hill.

49 The monument called Long Meg, is a fine specimen of this kind

of idol.

50 This phrase, according to Mr. Davies, implies "in the first place, the Ark in which the patriarch and his family were inclosed ; secondly,
the circle of the Zodiac, in which their luminous emblems, the sun,

moon,

and

planets

revolved ;

thirdly, the

sanctuary of the

British

Ceres, which represented both the Ark and the zodiac." (Mytho.

Druid., p. 516.)

51 In the poem called Kadair Teyrn On, (Welch Arch., vol. i., p.

65,) we are told that there are four grand sanctuaries in the British

dominions. It would have been highly satisfactory if the bard had

enumerated them. The two principal ones were doubtless that of

Stonehenge or Abury for the

southern

division of Britain ;

and

pro-

bably the Temple at Shap, in Cumberland, which, as Stukeley affirms,

(Itin., vol. ii., p. 15,) was constructed on the plan of a serpent trans-

mitted through a circle, and full two miles in length, for the northern

division. In one of the Triads, however, (Meyrick. Cardig. Introd.,) the Bard says, "there are three principal Choirs in Britain," ajid

names them as follows : The Knight Iltuds Bangor in Caer Worgorn

THE CELTIC MYSTERIES.

129

of buildings erected for the purpose, immediately &d|j pin-

ing their

most

sacred

52
temples

in

the

centre of an im-

penetrable grove of oaks, consecrated with solemn rites

to the service of the deity, and hallowed with the blood
of human victims. In some parts of England the initia-

tions were performed in the secret recesses of holy caverns

formed by Nature with every convenience to give effect to

their

celebration ;

for

a

cavern was

understood

by the

Epoptas to represent the central cavity of the vast abyss,

or the great receptacle of the diluvian waters;53 or, in

other words, Hades. The peculiar degree of sanctity

attached to these awful inclosures, was calculated to pro-

duce a lasting impression on the aspirant, as well as to

prevent the idle approach of the uninitiated. Consider-

able space was necessary for the machinery of initiation

on its largest and most comprehensive scale. Apartments

of all sizes, cells, vaults, baths, and long and artfully con-

trived passages, with all the apparatus of terror which

was used on these important occasions could not have been

contained within a small compass; although it is tolerably

clear that initiation on a minor scale was performed in

many parts of the island within the inclosure of caverns

of moderate dimensions.

(Glamorganshire.) The Choir of Emrys (Ambres) in Caer Caradac,

(Old Sarum, says Meyrick; I should rather think Stonehenge;) and

Bangov Wydrin in the apple island, (Arallon or Glastonbury. )

63 The three great labours of the Britons are represented in a fa-

mous triad to be, raising the stone of Cetti, or constructing the mysti-

cal Cromlech or adytum ; Erecting the Emrys, or building the circular

Temple with petrae ambrosiae or consecrated stones ; and Heaping tho mount of G-yvrangon, or raising the mound or cairn in honour of the

dead. In all these solemn duties gray stones were preferred. The

adytum or ark of the mysteries was called a Cromlech, (Signs and

Symbols, Lect. 6,) and was used as a sacred pastes or place of regeneration. It consisted of two or more upright stones as supporters

of a broad flat stone which was laid across them, so as to form a small

cell, within the area of which the aspirant was immured. The Car-

nedd was a heap of stones rudely piled together over the summit of

a mountain or high hill for sepulchral or commemorative purposes.

When used as a place of sepulture, the cairn was more commonly

composed of

earth ;

and in this case it was termed a tumulus or bar-

row : derived from the Celtic tumba, a tomb, and byrig, a mound of

earth, or byringenn, sepultra.

53 1 once visited Poole's Hole, near Buxton, and found the noise of

the waters to be absolutely stunning. It is, indeed, a cavern of horror.

10

130

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

It is well known that what was pure mythology in one

age became

romance in another 54 ;

and

hence

the

fables

current in this country about King Arthur and his knights

connected with Merlin

the

enchanter 55 their j

imaginary

combats, and discomfiture of giants and powerful magi-

cians, were all derived from occurrences that took place

during the initiation of candidates into the highest mys-

teries of Druidism, which were of a complicated nature,

abounding with transformations, battles, and fearful ad-

ventures. Hence every remarkable structure in this

island to which the name of Arthur is attached was doubt-

less

connected with

the

56
initiations,

and

the

same

may

54 Vid. Fab. Pag. Idol., b. v., c. 8. 55 u Merlin was the same as the Irish Tailgin St. Patrick; in other words, he was Noah, or the principal Telchin, whence he was denomi-
nated by the ancient Celts, Mer-Lin, or the marine god of the Lake."
(Fab. Mys. Cab., vol. ii., p. 429.) " I am much inclined to conjecture," adds the author, ' that the hardy knights of the Round Table
were in fact, no other than the infernal, or Cabiric deities." (Ib., p.

437.)

56 In the county of Westmoreland are two extraordinary monu-

ments connected with each other, the one called Maryborough, or

more properly Mayburgh ; the other, Arthur's Round Table. The

former is a very striking specimen of the mixed architecture of the

Druids, composed of stones and an embankment of earth, and lies

about four hundred yards to the west of Arthur's Table. It consists

of an eminence which rises gradually from the plain for about one

hundred and forty paces, forming the lower section or base of a regu-

lar cone ;

the

ascent

is everywhere

covered

with wood, and. the re-

mains of timber trees of great size appear on every side. The sum-

mit of the hill is fenced round, save only an opening or entrance,

twelve paces in width

to the east ;

the fence

is singular, being com-

posed of an immense quantity of loose* pebbles and flints which per-
haps were gathered from the adjoining rivers. No kind of mortar

appears

to have been used in this work ;

the

stones

lie uncemented,

piled up to the ridge, near twenty paces wide at the base, and in

height about twelve feet from the interior plain. Here and there time

has scattered a few shrubs and trees over the pebbles, but in other

places they are loose and naked on both sides. The space within

consists of a fine plain of meadow ground exactly circular, one hun-

dred

paces

in diameter ;

and

inclining a little to

the westward from

the centre is a large column of unhewn stone standing erect, with its

smaller end in the earth, eleven feet and upwards in height, and more

than twenty -two feet in circumference at the middle. (Hutch. Comb.,

vol. i., p. 310.) The sacred character of this place has been handed down by tradition, even to the present time. In a correspondence

which I had some time ago with the late Mr. Briggs of Kendal, he related the following anecdote respecting this Druidical circle : " Not

many years since, an old man in neighborhood told me, there were

THE CELTIC MYSTERIES.

131

be

said -of

all

places

to

which

a

giant was

a

57
party.

All

ancient temples consecrated to religious worship, in what-

ever country, for the practice of all idolatrous nations

was uniform in this particular, had places of initiation con-

four stones at the entrance, and he had heard old folks say that there had been four stones in the centre, but he could not recollect them.
Those at the entrance he remembered very well, and they were destroyed by the landlord of the public house by the side of Arthur's Round Table, and his servant man. But, added he, I think they did wrong to meddle with these ancient things, for one of the men soon
after hanged himself, and the other lost his reason. What must have
been the veneration for this place," exclaims Mr. Briggs, "in the days of its greatest glory, when such a striking relic of superstitious re-
spect is still fostered among the peasantry of the neighborhood !" Arthur's Round Table is a circular earthwork, one hundred and ten
yards in diameter in the whole ; and has an elevated circular table in
the centre of forty yards in diameter, which is surrounded by a ring twenty yards wide and the whole is encompassed by a fifteen yards ditch. It is situated on a piece of elevated ground near Eamont bridge, and is wholly covered with a fine greensward. It bears no marks of dilapidation. It is composed wholly of earth, and there is
not a stone about it, nor does it appear that there ever was. It is
now the theatre of an annual wrestling match, at which those gentlemen of the county, who have not previously obtained the honour, are formally installed knights of the Round Table ; of which order, Thomas Wyberg, Esq., is the present Grand Master. It was in such
places as this that the Britons used periodically to assemble for the
purpose of witnessing the sports and games which were instituted to prove the strength and agility of their youth, and to amuse the people. (Borl. Ant. Corn., p. 195.)
67 In Cumberland, they have a legend respecting a monster of this
nature, who resided in a cave on the banks of the river Eden. He is
represented to have been a terror to all the surrounding country. His
name was Isir. He subsisted by spoiling the neighbouring fields of their cattle, and when hard pressed by hunger, did not hesitate to drag men into his cave and devour them. When he washed his face,
says the tradition, he placed his right foot on one side of the river,
and his left on the other. The Rev. Gr. Hall, of Rosegill, to whom I am indebted for this legend, adds, " this giant, like all other giants, died and went the way of all flesh. When he died, tradition does not
say ; but it does say that he was buried in Penrith churchyard ; and that the stones called the giant's gravestones, mark his grave and the
length of his body." This is evidently a legend of initiation trans-
ferred from mythology to romance. The rites, as we have seen, were most commonly performed in caverns, and beside the pellucid waters of a running stream, where such conveniences could be placed in
conjunction ; for candidates, during a certain part of the cere-
mony, were immersed, and figurately said to be metamorphosed into fishes. The giant's name was strictly mythological. The mysteries of Britain were sacred to Ceridwen, who was the same as Ceres or
Isis, and she is represented by Taliesin as a giantess. (Welch. Arch.,

132

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

nected with them, and most frequently these places were
subterranean. Few caverns in this country remain to

relate

the wonders of Druidical

initiation ;

but the stu-

grotto

at Castleton, in

58
Derbyshire,

called

by

Eetnukdeoluesy, the Stygian Cave,59 is sufficient to convince us

that these celebrations were of the most terrific nature;

were performed with the aid of complicated machinery, and did not yield in interest and sublimity to those which

have been so highly eulogised in the more polished and

civilized nations of Egypt and Greece. They were

usually constructed on the principles of secrecy and re-

vol. i., p. 166.) The husband of Isis was Osiris: a word derived,

according to Vallancey, from two old Celtic words, signifying the

commander of

a ship or

ark ;

Eiss-Aire, or Is-Ir, the

very name

of

our Cumberland giant ; who was no other than Osiris or Noah, and

was represented by every candidate during the initiations. Gibson,

in Camden, (Col. 842,) says that this giant's cave or grotto was de-

nominated Isis Parlish, or the cavern of Isis the perilous ; and the
current legend, as we have seen, is, that the monster seized men and cattle, and dragged them into his cave for a prey. The cattle were evidently brought there for sacrifice, and the men for initiation, dur-

ing the process of which the aspirants were figuratively said to be

devoured by the giantess Ceridwen or Isis. (Vid. infra. 1. iii.) Re-

A specting the giant's grave I must refer to my former volume of Signs

and Symbols, Lect. VII.

similar legend is recorded by Stukeley,

that a giant named Tarquin lived at Brougham Castle, in the same

neighbourhood, and that Sir Lancelet du Lake, then residing at Mary-

borough, attacked and slew him.

58 Antiquities of Masonry, p. 107.

59 Some very singular excavations have been discovered between

Luckington and Badminster, Wilts, called the Giants' Caves, which

are thus described in Childrey's Britannia Bacconica, and cited in the

Aubrey MSS. ** They are upon the top of a rising hill, in number

about nine ;

and

some

of them are

or were

formerly cemented with

lime. Some of them are deeper, and some shallower, some broader and

larger than others. They lie all together in a row The manner of

them is two long stones set upon the sides, and broad stones set upon

the top to cover them. The least of these caves is four feet broad,

and some of them are nine or ten feet long." Sir R. C. Hoare pro-

nounces them to be ancient sepulchres ; but I conceive the learned

baronet to be mistaken " the curiosity of some

in this point, for the ingenious men, as it

author before cited is reported, within

says, these

forty years, tempted them to dig into it, and make search for some

ancient remains, but they found nothing but an old spur, and some few
other things not worth mentioning." How could they be sepulchral
if no remains were interred within them ? The fact is, they were no

more sepulchral than were the pyramids of Egypt ; and I have no

hesitation in saying that they were constructed for the selfsame pur-

pose, viz. as places of initiation into the mysteries.

THE CELTIC MYSTERIES.

133

tirement from public observation. Long, dark, and in all practicable cases, intricate passages were the united essentials of the mysterious precinct ; and it is evident that as religion could not be practised distinct from initiation, so places for the performance of these important rites were always constructed within or near the edifices
consecrated to religious worship.

134

LECTUKE Till.

CEREMONIES OF INITIATION IN BRITAIN.

THE grand periods of initiation into these mysteries

were quarterly, and determined by the course of the sun,

and

his

arrival

at the equinoctial and solstitial

1
points.

These, at the remote period now under our consideration,

corresponded with the 13th February; 1st May; 19th

August; and 1st November.2 But the time of annual

celebration was May eve, and the ceremonial preparations

commenced at midnight, on the 29th April, and when

the initiations were over on May eve, fires were kindled3

on all the cairns and cromlechs throughout the island,
which burned all night to introduce the sports of May day. Round these fires choral dances4 were performed, in honour of the Solar patriarch Hu, or Noah, who was
at this season delivered from his confinement in the Ark.5

The

festival

was

6
phallic,

in

honour

of

the

Sun,

the

great

1 Stukeley, Abury, p. 68.
2 The monthly celebrations took place when the moon was six days

old ;

and peculiar rites were appropriated to certain days,

as appears

"A from an ancient British poem, thus translated by Davies,

song of

dark import was composed by the distinguished Ogdoad, who assem-

bled on the day of the Moon, and went in open procession. On the

day of Mars, they allotted wrath to their adversaries. On the day of

Mercury, they enjoyed full pomp. On the day of Jove, they were

delivered from the detested usurpers. On the day of Venus, the day

of the great influx, they swam in the blood of men. On the day of

Saturn,

On the day of the Sun, there truly assembled

five ships, and five hundred of those who make supplication, &c."

3
Toland,

in

his

History of the

Druids,

(vol. i., p. 71,) says

that

two

of

these fires

were

kindled

in

every

village

of

the

nation ;

between

which the men and beasts to be sacrificed were obliged to pass ; one

of them being kindled on the cairn, and the other on the ground. 4 These were the fire dances mentioned by Porphyry, (1. i., p. 94,)

and were probably used to propitiate that element which they believed was destined to destroy the world. (Ces. de bel. Gal., 1. vi.)
5 Signs and Symbols, Lect. v. 6 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. vi., p. 89. " It is remarkable that one of

the most remarkable feasts of the Hindoos, called that of Auruna,

the daystar, falls on the sixth day of the new moon, in May, and is

dedicated to the goddess of generation, who is worshipped when the

INITIATION IN BRITAIN.

135

source of generation, and consisted in the elevation of

long poles decorated with crowns of gold and garlands

of flowers, under which the youth of both sexes per-

formed certain mysterious revolutions, for it was custo-

mary to adore the sun by circular dances.7 These conti-

nued till the luminary had attained his meridian height ;

and then retiring to the woods, the most disgraceful

orgies were perpetrated, and the festival ended with de-

bauchery and intoxication.8

The time of general meeting was figuratively said to

be

when

the

Sun

was

at

its

due

meridian 9 ;

in

allusion

to

morning star appears, or at dawn of day, for the propagation of

children and to remove barrenness." (Ibid., p. 93.) 7 Vid. Asiat. Res., vol. ii., p. 333. The mythic circle had also a

reference to the historical period, commencing with the union of

heaven and earth, and ending with the return of Ulysses to Ithaca.

(Pr8ocTlh.isinwPahsotd.ouBbitblle.,ssp.th9e82o.r)igi^ n of the festivities which were prac-
tised in many parts of England, down to a very recent period, at the same season of the year. The following description of these games
by Stubbs, (Anatomie of Abuses, 1595,) most unequivocally points

out their origin: "Against Maie-day, every parish, town, or village

assemble

themselves,

both

men,

women,

and

children ;

and either

all

together, or dividing themselves into companies, they goe to the

woods and groves, some to the hills and mountains, some to one place,

and some to another, where they spend all the night in pleasant pas-

times, and in the morning they return bringing with them birch

boughes and branches of trees to deck their assemblies withal. But

their chiefes.t jewel they bring from thence is the maie-pole, which

they bring home with great veneration,

as thus ;

they have twentie or

fourtie yoake of oxen, every oxe having a sweete nosegaie of flowrs
tied up to the tip of his homes, and these oxen drawe home the May-

poale, which they covered all over with flowers and hearbes, bound round with strings from the top to the bottome, and sometimes it was

painted with variable colours, having two or three hundred men, wo-
men, and children, following it with great devotion. And thus

equipped it was reared with handkerchiefes and flaggs streaming on

the top, they strawe the ground round about it, they bind green

boughs about it, they set up summer halles, bowers, and arbours,

hard by it, and then fall they to banquetting and feasting, to leaping,

and dancing, about it as the heathen people did at the dedication of
their idols. I have heard it credeblie reported, by men of great

gravity, credite, and reputation, that of fourtie, threescore, or a hundred maides going to the wood, there have scarcelie the third parte of them returned home again as they went."
9 Their Gorseddaw were held in the open air, while the sun re-

mained above the horizon. The bards assembled within a circle of

stones, and the presiding Druid stood before a large stone in the

centre. (Turn. Anglo Sax., vol. i., p. 197.)

136

HISTORY OF INITIATION

that astronomical paradox founded on the globular form

of the earth, which, continually revolving on its axis,

makes the central Sun always at its meridian to some part

of its surface. The truth is, that the rites of the insular

sanctuary commenced at daybreak; and the rising of their great deity, who was dignified with the appellation
of "the god of victory; the king who rises in light and

ascends

the

10
sky,"

was

hailed with

triumphant

shouts

and loud hosannas. But the solemn initiations were

performed at midnight, to invest them with a higher degree of dignity and importance. They contained three independent steps or degrees, the first or lowest being the Eubates, the second the Bards, and the third
the Druids. 11
A careful preparation was used previously to the admis-
sion of candidates into the first degree; for it was con-
sidered that without mental and bodily purification, the
arcana of a sacred establishment could not safely be
communicated. The heart must be prepared to conceal,
before the eyes are permitted to discover the truths which often lie hid under significant emblems, the instru-
ments, probably, of human industry ; else the labour of
years may be unprofitably wasted in the thankless office of committing seed to a Barren soil, which will make no
return of fruit commensurate with the toil of cultivation.

They were purified by the Tolmen, 12 and then put to

10 Gododin, Song xxii.
11 This division did riot include the preparatory ceremony of the insular sanctuary, which partook rather of the nature of a qualification process than of a distinct degree. Thus Taliesin, in his poem of The Spoils of the Deep, speaks of "that lore which was four
times reviewed in the quadrangular inclosure." (Dav. Druid, p. 518.)
And in his poem of The Battle of the Trees, the same bard describes these four ceremonies of purification with great exactness. "I was exorcised," says he, "by Math before I became immortal; I was
exorcised by Gwidion the great purifier of the Brython, of Eurowys, of Euron and Medron, of the multitude of scientific teachers, chil-
dren of Math. When the removal took place, I was exorcised by the sovereign when he was half consumed. By the Sage of sages
was I exorcised in the primitive world, at which time I had a being."
(Dav. Druid, p. 541.)
12 The Tolmen was a perforated stone which was used for the purpose of regeneration in the mysteries ; and the hierophant or chief Druid was hence denominated Tola. (Vid. Borl. Ant. Corn., p. 166.) These consecrated petrae are common all over England and Wales ; and the act of passing through them was thought to convey extraor-

IN BRITAIN.

137

their probation, which was very severe. Sometimes the

candidate

was doomed

to a seclusion of twenty

13
years,

which was spent amidst the secret recesses of an inac-

cessible

14
forest,

in

a

close

and

devoted

application to

study and reflection, and the practice of gymnastic ex-

ercises. But this lengthened probation extended only to

such as were regularly educated and initiated into the

mysteries, for the express purpose of occupying the most
elevated situations in the civil or ecclesiastical depart-
ments of the state. These were instructed in all the

sciences of which the Druids made profession. They

were excited to emulate the heroic deeds of their pro-

genitors, whose bravery was inculcated in verse, that it

might never be banished from the recollection. 15

The aspirant for mere initiation, was clad in a robe

striped

alternately with white,

skyline,

and

16
green ,

which

were the sacred colours of Druidism, and emblematical

of light, truth, and hope; and confined in a cromlech

without food three days prior to his admission into each

of

the

two

first

17
degrees ;

that is, he was placed

in

the

pastos with the usual ceremonies on the evening of the

first

18
day,

remained

an

entire

day

enclosed,

or

dead

in

the

language of the mysteries, and was liberated for initia-

tion, or in other words, restored to life on the third.19

dinary purity. In some parts of Britain they were denominated

Main Ambres ;

and

the

ingenious Dr. Stukeley conjectures that the

primitive name of Stonehenge was "the Ambres," whence was de-

rived the name of Ambresbury, a village in the immediate vicinity

of that celebrated monument of antiquity.

13 Cesar. 1. vi.

14 Gollut. Ax. 1.

15 Borl. Ant. Corn., p. 82.

16 Owen's W, Diet., v. Glain.

17 Signs and Symbols, Lect. vi.

18 "It was customary with the Hebrews," says the Ajbbe Fleury,

(Manners of the Ancient Israelites, p. 4, c. 3,) "to express a whole

day by the terms, the evening and the morning ; or by these, the

night and the day; which the Greeks express by their nuchthemeron ;

and which as well signifies any particular part of the day or night,

as the whole of it. And this is the reason why a thing that has lasted

two nights and one whole day, and a part only of the preceding and

following days, is said by the Hebrews to have lasted three days and

three nights."
19 This was symbolical of the patriarch Adam, who died on one

day, the world

before

the

Flood

being

so

esteemed ;

remained in the

tomb another day, i. e., during the continuance of the post-diluvian

world; and will rise again to judgment on the third or eternal day;

and being purified from his corruptions, will remain for ever happy

138

HISTORY OF INITIATION

The Welsh triads contain a hint of this solitary confinement in the cromlech when speaking of the initiation of Arthur, who is there said to have been imprisoned "three

nights in the inclosure of Oeth arid Anoeth, and three

nights with the lady of Pendragon, and three nights in

the

prison of Kud, under

the flat stone of Echemeint ;

and one youth released him from the three prisons, namely,

Goreu,

the

son

of

Cystenin,

his

20
nephew."

The last of

these prisons was evidently the cromlech, in which

it is certain the candidate endured a confinement of

much

more

extended

21
duration,

before

he

was

admitted

to the last and most distinguished privilege of Druid-

ism.

When the sanctuary was prepared for the solemn

business of initiation, the Druids and their attendants,

ceremonially arranged; properly clothed, crowned with
ivy and protected by amulets ; a hymn to the sun was

in a place of light. It was further symbolical of Noah,' who entered

into the Ark in one year ; remained inclosed a year, and was emancipated from his confinement, or reborn, in the third year. Much con-

fusion arose in the mythology of the ancient world from this doc-

trine. The aspirant, like Noah, is supposed to have lived in the old world, and was hence esteemed a venerable old man ; but he was

new-born from the mysteries, as Noah was from the Ark, and hence

he was considered but an infant. Noah built the Ark, and it was

consequently represented as his daughter ; but he was united with

the Ark, and they together floated over the all-pervading wave;

hence she was taken for his wife ; and ultimately he was born from

the Ark, which, from this circumstance, sustained the character of

his mother. Again, when he is said to die, the Ark is his coffin ; when a child, it is his cradle ; and when he is supposed to sleep in

deep repose during the prevalence of the waters, it is his bed. (Vid.
Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. ii., p. 281.) The confusion this would neces-

sarily create could not be reconciled without having recourse to a

multiplication of deities, and therefore in Greece, as the father of the

female principle or Ark, Noak was termed Saturn; as her husband

he

was

termed

Jupiter,

and

as

her

son,

Bacchus ;

and when the solar

and the arkite superstitions were connected, he became Apollo, and

soon branched off into a number of collateral deities which peopled

their imaginary heaven, and tended to mystify their system of reli-

gion, and place it entirely out of the reach of ordinary compre-

hension; and the unravelment of this intricate machinery formed

one grand secret of the Greater Mysteries, in which the hierophaut

reduced all the complicated pantheon of idolatry to one single god.

(Cudworth, Intel. Syst., 1. i., c. 4.) This subject is also handled at

length in Faber's Pagan Idolatry, (b. i., c. 1, s. 10-12.) 20 Welsh Archaeol. Triad. 50. Dav. Druid, p. 404. 21 Welsh Archaeol., vol. i., p. 19.

IN BRITAIN.

139

chanted, 22 and three blessed drops of the Spirit were earnestly implored. The candidate was then introduced,
and placed under the care of the officer who was stationed to receive him "in the land of rest." Soon,
however, the active duties of initiation were commenced.
The aspirant, who was denominated a blind man,24 was
appointed to kindle a fire under the cauldron. As the cauldron was a mystical word to express the whole circle

of science taught in the mysteries, so the act of kindling
a fire under it must have had an evident reference to

those preliminary ceremonies which were practised be-

fore the disclosure of any part of the august secrets of

A the Order.

pageant was then formed, and the several

candidates were arranged in ranks consisting of threes,

fives, and sevens, according to their respective qualifications,

and conducted nine times round the sanctuary in circles

from

east

to

west

by the

south 25 ;

proceeding

at

first

"with solemn step and slow," amidst an awful and death-

like silence, to inspire a sacred feeling adapted to the re-

ception of Divine

truths ;

at

length the pace increased,

until they were impelled into a rapid and furious motion

22 Maur. Hist. Hind., vol. ii., p. 170.
23 Signs and Symbols, Lect. viii.
24 The ceremonies of initiation which I am about to describe and

illustrate, have been transmitted to us by Taliesin, in a poem of ex-

traordinary merit,

called

Hanes Taliesin ;

which

contains

a

mytho-

A logical account of the candidate's progress through the different

stages, to his ultimate state of perfection.

translation of this

poem may be found in Dav. Druid, p. 189, 213, 229.

25 Diodorus informs us that the temple of Stonehenge was the pe-

culiar abode of Apollo ; and that the god amused himself with a

dance once in nineteen years, amongst his established train. On this observation, Davies remarks, that " as it was the known prac-

tice for certain priests, in the celebration of the mysteries, personal-

ly to represent the sun and moon, I conjecture that the Druids, in

their great festival of the cycle, dressed up a pageant of their own

order, to personate this luminous divinity." The same may be said

of the dance called Betarmus, which was used during the initiations

in honour of the solar orb, and his attendant planets; and of the

Egyptian Pyrrhic dance, afterwards used by the Greeks, which was

performed at the summer solstice, accompanied by the singing of

dithyrambic

odes ;

and the same

idolatrous

dances

were

performed

by the Israelites, which they had learned in Egypt. In the Eaas

Jattra, or the dance of the circle in India, the performers proceeded

sometimes from left to right, as amongst the Romans ; and sometimes

from right to left, as with the Greeks and Britons. And the Greeks

used a similar movement while their choruses were performing.

140

HISTORY OF INITIATION

by the tumultuous clang of musical instruments, and the

screams of harsh and dissonant voices, reciting in verse
the praise of those heroes who had been brave in war,

courteous in peace, and devoted friends and patrons of

26
religion.

This sacred ceremony completed, an oath of

secrecy was administered, and hence the waters of the

cauldron were said to deprive the candidates of utter-

ance.27 The oath was ratified by drinking out of the

sacred vessel; and thus sealed, its violation could only

be expiated by death.28

In the prosecution of the consecutive ceremonies, the

following characters were successively sustained by the

aspirant. Taliesih applies them to himself in his poem

of

Angar

29
Cyvyndawd.

I have been a blue salmon I ;

have

been

a

30
dog ;

I have been a roebuck on the moun-

tain ; I have been a stock of a tree ; I have been a spade ;

I have been an axe in the hand; I have been a pin in a

forceps for a year and a half; I have been a cock, varie-

gated with white, upon hens in Eidin; I have been a

stallion upon a mare ; I have been a buck of yellow hue in

the act of feeding ; I have been a grain of the arkites
which vegetated on a hill, and then the reaper placed me

in

a

smoky

31
recess,

that

I

might

be

compelled

freely to

yield

my

corn, when

subjected

to

32
tribulation;

I was

received

by a hen33 with red

fangs and a divided

34
crest;

26 The dance was somewhat similar to the wild ceremonial dances

of the Corybantes ; and is mentioned by Taliesin, in his poem of

Kadair Teyrn On; (Welsh Archaeol., vol. i., p. 65,) and more particularly described in another poem, where the bard says, " The as-

sembled train were dancing after the manner, and singing in cadence,

with

garlands

(of ivy) on

their

brows ;

loud was

the

clattering

of

shields round the ancient cauldron in frantic mirth," &c. (Dav. Druid.,

p. 576.) Toland, in his History of the Druids, may also be usefully

consulted on this ceremony ; and Borlase in his Antiquities of Corn-

wall.

27 Turn. Vindicat, p. 283.

98 Taliesin, Preiddeu Annwn. Welsh Archaeol., vol. i., p. 45.

We * Welsh Archaeol., vol. i., p. 36.

30

have already witnessed the profuse use of this animal in the

mysteries : and we shall find as we proceed, that similar canine phan-

toms were exhibited in the mysteries of Britain. 31 The dark cavern of initiation.

32 Or in other words, that the austerity of initiation might humanize and improve the heart, and elicit the fruits of morality and virtue'.
35 The arkite goddess, Ceridwen, was represented in the initiation as a hen with red fangs.
34 Emblematical of the lunette, or six days moon.

IN BRITAIN.

141

I remained nine months an infant in her womb;85

I

have

been Aedd,36

returning

to

my

former

state ;

I have

been

an

offering

before

the

37
sovereign ;

I have died ;

I

have revived 38 ;

and

conspicuous with

my ivy branch; 39

I

have

been

a

leader,

and

by

my

bounty

I

became

40
poor.

Again

was

I

instructed

by

the

cherisher

with

red

41
fangs.

Of what she gave me 42 scarcely can I utter the great

praise that is due." 43 And in his poem of Cad Goddeu,

the same poet gives a further account of his numerous

adventures during the ceremony of initiation. "I have

been

a spotted

adder on

the mount ;

I have been

a viper

in

the

44
lake;

I

have

been

stars

among

the

superior

chiefs; I have been the weigher of the falling drops,

drest in my priest's cloke and furnished with my bowl."45

These extraordinary transformations were undoubtedly

effected by means of masks, shaped like the heads of

those animals46 which the aspirant was feigned to repre-

sent, and garments composed of their skins.47

85
Alluding

to

the

pastes

or

cromlech.

36 The helio-arkite god, or his priest.

When 37

presented to the archdruid after initiation.

36 Another allusion to the cromlech, in which the aspirant suffered

a mythological death and revivification.

39 It has been already observed that the aspirant was crowned with

ivy.
A 40 mystical poverty was the characteristic of a candidate during

the process of initiation.

41 Ceridwen.

43 Instruction in all mysteries and sciences, human and divine.

43 Dav. Druid, p. 573.

44
Serpents,

as

we

have

already

seen, were

much

used in

all

the

ancient mysteries.

)5 Dav. Druid, p. 544.

46
Figures

of men

with the heads

of animals are very common on

the monuments of Egypt. (Vid. the plates to Belzoni's Researches.)

Dr. Pococke says (Descrip. of the East, vol. i., p. 95,) "in some of

the temples I have observed that the human body has always on it the

head of some bird or beast."

4T From a tradition of this practice arose that prevailing opinion, that "the spectres of Britain were hellish, more numerous than those

of Egypt, of which some are yet remaining," says Gildas, "strangely featured and ugly, and still to be seen both within and without the
forsaken walls, looking stern and grim, after their usual manner."
(Gibson's Camd., xxxv.) The practice was continued as a mummery or holiday sport down to a comparatively recent period. "There was a sport," saysStrutt, (Sports, p. 188,) "common among the ancients,
which usually took place in the Kalends of January, and probably

formed a part of the Saturnalia, or feasts of Saturn. It consisted in

142

HISTORY OF INITIATION

The second part of the ceremony commenced with striking the blind man a violent blow on the head with an

oar, and a pitchy darkness immediately ensued,43 which was
soon changed into a blaze of light which illuminated the
whole area of the shrine, for now the fire was kindled.

This was intended to shadow forth the genial effects of

that great transition from darkness to light which the

arkite patriarch experienced on emerging from the gloom of the Ark to the brightness of a pure and renovated

world, enlightened by the rays of a meridian sun. The

light was, however, suddenly withdrawn, and the aspirant

again involved in chaotic darkness. His heart thrilled

with horror. The most dismal howlings, shrieks, and lamentations, saluted his astonished ears ; for now the

death of their great progenitor, typified by his confine-

ment in the Ark, was commemorated with every external

mark of sorrow.49 This was succeeded by the howling

and

barking

of

50
dogs,

the

blowing

of

51
horns,

and the

mummings and disguisements ; for the actors took upon themselves the resemblance of wild beasts, or domestic cattle, and wandered about
from one place to another; and he, I presume, stood highest in the estimation of his fellow, who best supported the character of the brute he imitated. This whimsical amusement was exceedingly popular, and continued to be practised long after the establishment of
Christianity." It was, indeed, very common in the reign of Henry
VIII. and was doubtless the remains of the system of metamorphosis
which was used during the Druidical initiations ; the memory of which was retained long after the institution itself was buried in oblivion; for the mummers were always decorated with ivy leaves, the charac-
teristics of the priesthood, and the insignia of the mysteries. The
Christmas morris dances of the present day are perhaps the last

remains of this idolatrous superstition.
48 The oar is an unequivocal emblem of the Deluge ; and the dark-
ness represented the state of obscurity in which Hu was involved
while confined within the gloomy recesses of the Ark. 40 This was the origin of the coronach or funeral dirge, used by the
Celts to a very recent period ; and even now imitated by the wild pea-
sants of our sister country, at the funeral of a deceased friend or re-

lation.

50 The tale of Pwyll in
records this circumstance :

"tPhyewlClamebntreirainngRfeuglilsytuepron(vtohl.e

i., p. 177,)
chase, and

listening to the cry of the pack, began to hear distinctly the cry of

another pack which was of a different tone from that of his own dogs,

and was coming in an opposite direction." The whole of this tale is

worth considering, as it contains many plain intimations relative to the

ceremonies of initiation.

51 Tale of Pywll, as above. Taliesin. Kadair Teyrn On.

IN BRITAIN.

143

voices of men uttering discordant cries. His timidity

increasing, he would naturally attempt to fly, without

knowing where to look for safety. Escape was, however,

impossible, for wherever he turned, white dogs, with

shining

red

52
ears,

appeared

to

bay

at

his

heels.

Thus he

was

said

to

be

transformed

into

a

hare

53
j

evidently

in

al-

lusion to the timidity which was the natural consequence

of

all the horrors

to

which

he

was

necessarily

54
exposed.

The gigantic goddess, Ceridwen, in the form of a proud

mare,55 emerging from behind the veil, now seized the

astonished candidate, and by main force bore him away

to the mythological sea of Dylan, into whose purifying

stream he was immediately plunged by the attendant

priest,

and

hence

he was

said

to

be

changed

into

a

fish

56 j

52 Tale of Pywll. The Druids were habited during the performance of these ceremonies in while vestments, and crowned with red diadems.

Dogs were generally considered to be effective agents under supernatu-

ral circumstances. Morgan, in his history of Algiers, gives a curious
instance of this. He says, that "the Turks report, as a certain
truth, that the corpse of Heyradin Barbarosa was found, four or five
times, oft of the ground, lying by his sepulchre, after he had been
there inhumed ; nor could they possibly makejiim lie quiet in his grave, till a Greek wizard counselled them to bury a black dog together with the body. This done, he lay still, and gave them no farther trouble."
53 Hanes Taliesin. The tale of Pywll, however, likens the aspirant

to a stag.
54 1 am inclined to think that the career of the aspirant was fre-

quently contested by real or imaginary opponents to prove his personal courage. These contests were probably of a nature somewhat

similar to the subsequent practice of the Crasaders during the process

of admission into the superior orders of knighthood. The following

passage in the poem of Gododin, (Song xxii., Dav. Druid., p. 365,)

generally, and perhaps truly, referred to the slaughter of the Britons

at the fatal banquet given by Hengist to Vortigern, at Stonehenge,

forcibly points out the probable at this period of the initiation.

danger which surrounded the " Whilst the assembled

candidate train were

accumulating like a darkening swarm around him, without the sem-

blance of a retreat, his exerted wisdom planned a defence against the

pallid outcasts with their sharp pointed weapons."

56 Or rather fiend mare. She is here represented as a monstrous

animal, compounded of a mare and a hen. (Dav. on British Coins.)

56
Dylan,

according

to

Mr.

Davies,

(Druid, p. 100.)

was the patri-

arch

Noah ;

and

his

sea, the Deluge ;

and

he

cites

the

following

passage from Taliesin's Cad Goddeu in support of his opinion.

" Truly I was in the ship With Dylan, son of the sea, Embraced in the centre
Between the royal kneee,

144

HISTORY OF INITIATION

and to remain a whole year in the deep, in the character

of Arawn, the arkite.57 The pursuit of his terrible per-

secutors did not end here. The same appalling noises

still

assailed

his

ears ;

and his pursuer, transformed into an

otter, threatens him with destruction. Emerging at

length from the stream, the darkness was removed, and

he found himself surrounded with the most brilliant

coruscations

of

58
light.

This change produced in the

attendants a corresponding emotion of joy and pleasure,

which was expressed by shouts and loud paeans, to testify

their supreme felicity at the resuscitation of their god, or
in other words, his egress from the purifying wave. The aspirant was here presented to the Archdruid, seated on his throne of state, who expatiated on the design of the

mysteries ; imparted some portion of the cabalistical

knowledge

of Druidism ;

and earnestly recommended the

practice of fortitude to the exhausted aspirant ; for the

exercise of this virtue constituted, in the opinion of the

Druids,

one

leading

trait

of

59
perfection.

After his lustration and subsequent enlightening, the

novice was said to become a bird who penetrates the

regions of the air towards the lofty arch of heaven, to

figure out the high and supernal privileges he had just

attained ;

the favour of heaven and the protection of the

gods. He was now instructed in the morality of the

order; incited by precept to act bravely in war; taught

that

souls

are immortal,

and

must

live

in

a

future

60
state;

solemnly enjoined to the duties of divine worship, to

When, like the rushing of hostile spears. The floods came forth
Prom heaven to the great deep.

As Dylan was Noah, so Stonehenge was denominate cl the mundane
ark, which was feigned to have been conveyed across the Irish channel by Hu, another name for Dylan, who, as the legend is recorded by

Christian writers, is represented as the prince of darkness, the devil.

(Drayton. Poly-Olbion, Song 4.) 57 "It was proposed that Pywll should assume the form of Arawn,
and preside in the deep in his character and person for one complete

year."
58 " At

(Tale of Pywll.) the completion of

the

year,

Pywll

returns

from

the palace

of

the deep, into his own dominions, and providing a solemn sacrifice,

beheld the sign of the Rainbow glittering in all its brilliancy of colour-

ing under the character of a lady mounted upon a horse of a pale,

bright colour, great and very high." (Tale of Pywll.)

59
Diog.

Laert.

Procem.

^Mela., 1. iii., c. 2.

IN BRITAIN.

145

practise morality; arid to avoid sloth, contention, and

folly; and ultimately was invested wilh some sacred

badges of Druidism.

The

62
crystal,

an

unequivocal

test

of

63
initiation,

was

delivered

to

him,

as

an

undoubted

preservative from all future dangers; and if not intended
for the highest offices of the priesthood, he \vas brought
before the sacred fire, three hymns were chanted to the
honour of Hu and Ceridwen, accompanied by the bardic
harps; the mead was solemnly administered by the attendant officer, and the initiated aspirant was dismissed
with solemn ceremonies.

But, after having surmounted the two former degrees,

he was still deemed exoteric, and few attained the char-

acter of esoteric,

or thrice born ;

for this degree was

administered to none but persons of rank and conse-

quence; and if a noble candidate aspired to a higher

degree of perfection than had been already communi-

cated, he underwent other and more arduous ceremonies

of purification. He was compared to a grain of pure

wheat, emblematical of his perfect fitness for the highest

mysteries of Druidism; and committed to the secluded

solitude of the cromlech for the space of nine months,

during which time he applied himself to the study of

theology, natural philosophy, and divination, cosmogra-

phy, astronomy, geography, rhetoric, logic, arithmetic,
and music. This tedious period was devoted to study
and reflection, that the candidate might be prepared to understand, more perfectly, the sacred truths in which

61
Diog.

Laert.

Prooem.

63 This Amulet was variously shaped. Sometimes like a round

bead of glass; (Owen's Die., v. G-lain.) at others, like a crescent, or
glass boat; (Kadeir Taliesin. Welsh Archaeol., vol. i., p. 37,) now

it was denominated a glass circle, (Preiddeu Annwn., Dav. Druid.

Append., No. iii.) and now a glass house. (Ibid.) In each case it

was a powerful talisman of protection; and its colour was merely the

mark of distinction between the different orders. The Druids' crystal

was white ;

the bards'

sky blue,

the eubates' green,

and the aspirants'

was distinguished by a mixture of all these colours. The secret of

A manufacturing them rested solely with the Druids. 63 " crystal ring Abdaldar wore ;

The powerful gem condensed

Primeval dews that upon Caucasus

Felt the first winter's frost.

it may have charms To blind or poison."
Southey's Thalaba, vol. i., p. 84, .103

11

146

HISTORY OF INITIATION

he was now about to be fully instructed. It was the
death and burial of the mysteries ; and on its expiration
he was said to be newly born from the womb of Cerid-
wen, and was pronounced a regenerate person, cleansed
from his former impurities by the mystical contents of
her cauldron. When his term of probation expired, his qualifications were ascertained by propounding many
abstruse queries in the branches of science to which his attention has been directed.64

This confinement and subsequent emancipation was

represented by a continuation of the former kind of

symbols. The candidate, while under the supposed

form of a grain of pure wheat, was encountered by

his

pursuer,

Ceridwen

the

65
fury,

in

the

shape

of

a high-

crested hen,66 who selected him from the heap amongst

which he lay, and swallowed him. He is said to have

remained nine months in her womb, to depict the period

of his seclusion from the world in the Pastes, the door

of which was reputed to be under the guardianship of the terrible divinity Buanawr,67 armed with a drawn
sword, whose vindicative rage, excited by the pusillanimity, or unworthiness of the aspirant, would make
earth, hell, and heaven itself tremble.68 When the full

64 The nature of this intellectual investigation may be estimated

from the following specimen selected out of Davies's Druids, (p. 50).

"At what time and to what extent will land be productive ? What

Who is the extent and diameter of the earth?

is the regulator

between heaven and earth ? What brings forth the glain from the

working of stones ? Where do the cuckoos, which visit us in the

Who summer, retire during the winter ?

carried the measuring line

of the Lord of causes what scale was used when the heavens were

reared aloft; and who supported the curtain from the earth to the

skies ? Knowest thou what thou art in the hour of sleep ; a mere

body, a mere soul, or a secret retreat of light ? What supports the

Who fabric of the habitable earth ?

is the Illuminator of the soul ;

who has seen who knows him ?" &c.

65 Geridwen wrach. Welsh Archseol., vol. i., p. 19. 66 Vid. Davies. Remarks on British Coins.

67 Dav. Druid. Append., No. vii.

68 The duty of this relentless Janitor was, to prevent unlawful

intrusion, and to see that the candidate went through his probation

with becoming fortitude and perseverance. On the flat stone which

covered this miserable place of penance, denominated by Taliesin,

W. the gate of hell, (Priddeu Annwn.

Archseol., vol. i., p. 45,) a

sheathed sword was placed, to denote equally a love of justice and

peace, (Owen's Diet. v. Cromlec.) and a certain retribution if the

sanctuary were profaned by cowardice or irresolution.

IN BRITAIN.

147

period of gestation in the womb of Cericlwen was com-

plete, the aspirant was prepared for the consummation

of his knowledge; and, after a very dangerous process had been successfully braved, he received the highest and most ineffable degree of light and purity which
mortal man was esteemed able either to confer or

receive. This was emblematically performed by placing

the

new-born

infant

in

a

69
coracle,

or small

boat, covered

with a skin, and committing it to the mercy of the winds and waves. The candidate was actually set adrift

in

the

open sea

on

the

evening

of

the

29th

of

70
April,

and was obliged to depend on his own address and

presence of mind to reach the opposite shore in safety. This dangerous nocturnal expedition was the closing

act of initiation, and sometimes proved the closing scene

of life. If he possessed a strong arm and a well fortified

heart, he might succeed in gaining the safe landing-place on Gwyddno's wear, which was the typical mountain
where the Ark rested when the waters of the Deluge

had

subsided ;

but,

if either

of these

failed

during

the

enterprise, the prospect before him was little less than

certain death. Hence, on beholding across a stormy sea,

at the approach of night, the dashing waves breaking on

the wear at an immense and almost hopeless distance, the

timid probationer has frequently been induced to dis-

trust his own courage, and abandon the undertaking

A altogether.

refusal which brought on a formal and

contemptuous rejection from the hierophant, and the candidate was pronounced unworthy of a participation

in the honours and distinctions to which he aspired ; and

to which, from this moment, he was for ever ineligible.

"
Thy

coming

without

external

purity ;"

thus was

he

addressed in a prescribed formulary, " is a pledge that I

69 This description of boat is still used by the fishermen of Wales.

"These coracles," says Wyndham, in his Tour through Wales, "are

generally five feet and a half long,

and four feet broad ;

their bottom

is a little rounded, and their shape is exactly oval. They are ribbed

with light laths, or split twigs, in the manner of basket work, and

are covered with a raw hide and strong canvass, pitched in such a

A manner as to prevent leaking.

seat crossed just above the centre

towards the broad end. The men paddle them with one hand, and

fish with the other; and when their work is finished, bring their

boats home on their backs."

70 Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 177.

I

148

HISTORY OF INITIATION

will not receive thee. Take out the gloomy one. From
my territory have I alienated the useful steed; my
revenge upon the shoal of earthworms is, their hopeless longing for the pleasant allotment. Out of the receptacle which is thy aversion did I obtain the Eainbow." 71
But the fearless aspirant who surmounted all these
dangers was triumphantly received from the water on
May eve72 by the Arch-druid, the representative of
G-widdno, and his companions, and unhesitatingly an-
nounced his own inspiration by proclaiming himself capable to foretell future events. Thus the three
precious drops of efficacious water from the cauldron of Ceridwen ; or, in other words, the three mysterious degrees, were no sooner attained, than the candidate
received the undisputed power of vaticination in its highest form.73 The fermented contents of the cauldron
were reputed poisonous, after the three efficacious drops had been disengaged from the boiling vessel, and appropriated to the fortunate aspirant, which referred to the
doctrine of regeneration ; for the refuse of the concoc-
tion was supposed to be deeply impregnated with all
the impurities of which the renovated novice was now
disburdened. But the three drops in which the accumulated virtues of the cauldron were concentrated, had the
reputation of conveying, not only unlimited wisdom and knowledge, but also the inestimable gift of immortality.
The completion of the Three Degrees was termed being thrice born; the adept thenceforward was denomi-

71 Welsh Archseol., vol. L, p. 165. Dav. Druid., p. 251. 72 The following custom may have originated from an indistinct tradition of this ceremony. "Near Clifton is a famous spring where xhe people go annually every May-day to drink, by a custom beyond all remembrance ; they hold it an earnest of good luck in the ensuing year to be there and drink of the water before sunrise." (Stukeley.
Itin. Cur., vol. ii., p. 45.)
73 How questionable soever these powers might be, they conferred
an actual superiority on the initiated, which he seldom failed to exert
to his own personal advantage. Let us raise our hands in devout gratitude to Him who brought life and immortality to light, for delivering us from the power of such a gross and dreadful super-
stition as that under which the first occupiers of our soil were
enthralled !
74 In a poem of Taliesin, to which I have often referred, he pro-
nounces himself thrice born after the concluding scene of his initiation. First he was born of his natural parent; then from the

IN BRITAIN.

149

nated Dedwydd, (E^onr^} and could say to the multi-

tude of the profane, Stand by, come not near me, I am

holier

than

75
ye!

and

the benefits

resulting

from

this

privilege were so various and important, as amply to

compensate for the danger necessarily incurred in the

process. These benefits rendered the possessor eligible

for any ecclesiastical, civil, or military dignity, and con-

sisted of every species of instruction which had a ten-

dency to store the mind with wisdom, fortitude, and

virtue. The whole circle of human science was open to

his

76
investigation ;

the

knowledge

of

divine things was

communicated without

reserve ;

he was

now enabled to

perform the mysterious \ites of worship, and had his

understanding enriched with an elaborate system of

morality.

womb of Ceridwen, the mythological Ark, where he wus a repre-

sentative of the Arkite patriarch; and lastly from the coracle, or
Ark itself. To this effect also the Brahmins say, " The first birth

is

from

a natural

mother ;

the

second

from

the

ligature

of

the

zone ;

the third from the due performance of the sacrifice (of initiation) ; such

are the births of him who is usually called thrice born, according to

the text of the Veda." (Ordin. of Menu. Sir W. Jones' Works, vol.

A in., p. 106.) The Greeks also styled their Epopts, rgiyovos, thrice

born ;

and the last birth, like

that of Taliesin, was from an Ark.

passage in the Geeta, -(p. 67,) assigns perfection to the Yogee who

had accomplished many births.

75 Isaiah Ixv., 5.

76 This superior knowledge was that particular species of worldly

wisdom on which the Prophet pronounces this severe invective.

Every man is brutish by his knowledge. (Jerem. li., 17.)

150

LECTURE IX.

SYMBOLS AND DOCTRINES OF THE DRUIDS.

THE initiations were finally completed at day-break ;

and at the rising of the sun, an awful period with those

who practised the Sabian idolatry, as a decisive proof

of his cabalistic attainments, the adept was required to

exhibit his skill in the art of divination. These mystical

performances were of various liinds. On high occasions

the entrails of sacrifices afforded them every information

they could desire on all subjects which came under their

consideration. They predicted future events from the

flight

of

birds

T ;

by

white

horses 2 ;

by the

agitation

of

water, or hydromancy, and by lots.3 The latter process,

being the most celebrated, may merit a brief description.

One hundred and forty-seven shoots were cut from the

apple tree, with many

superstitious

ceremonies ;

they

were exactly of the same length, but with a varied

diversity of branchings and ramifications, each being a

secret symbol representing a word, a letter, or an idea.

These were the elementary principles by which the

result was effected. Being cast into a white napkin,

after certain incantations the divine will was ascertained

on any specified subject by taking an indifferent number
of these tallies indiscriminately from the napkin, and skilfully developing the mysterious ideas which they appeared to convey. Of all the secrets of Druidism, this appears to have been the most highly esteemed. It

1 Taliesin. Mic Dinbych. Welsh Archseol., vol. i., p. 67.
2 Borl. Ant. Corn., p. 134.
3 Taliesin. Kadair Teyrn On. Welsh Archseol., vol. i. p. 65. Sir R. C. Hoare discovered in a tumulus near Stonehenge, amidst some ashes and burned bones, four small bone trinkets, which he
supposes were used for casting lots. They are oblong, about three quarters of an inch one way, by half an inch the other, and about one-eighth of an inch in thickness. One side is flat and the other
convex, and they are each adorned with a separate and distinguishing device. This great antiquary ranks them amongst the most eminent curiosities which he had been fortunate enough to discover in all his laborious and comprehensive researches; and considers them as forming a step towards the use of letters.

DOCTRINES OF THE DRUIDS.

151

was celebrated by the bards in all the language of grave and lofty panegyric;, and even the possession of an orchard containing one hundred and forty-seven apple
trees of equal size, age, and beauty, with wide spreading branches, and pure white blossoms, succeeded by delicious fruit, was a prize more splendid and desirable
than any temporal dignity or spiritual rank.4
It is to be remarked that one hundred and forty-seven was a magical number, produced by multiplying the square of seven by the sacred number three; for, like the
rest of the world, the Druids paid the most sacred regard to odd numbers. In them, some unusual charm was supposed to exist which would propitiate the favour of the
deity, and secure to the pious worshipper the blessing of divine protection. The number three was held in
peculiar veneration by this order of men ; and hence the
arrangement of classes both in civil and religious polity partook of a ternary form.5 Nothing could be transacted
without a reference to this number. On solemn occa-

sions, the processions were formed three times round the

sacred

inclosure

of

Caer

6
Sidi;

their

invocations

were

thrice repeated, and even their poetry was composed in

7
triads.

The

ternary

8
deiseal,

or

procession

from

east

to

4
Myrddin's

Avallenau.

in

Dav.

Druid.,

p.

465.

5 Thus Gaul was divided into three provinces, the Belgae, the

Acquitani, and the Celtae ; the inhabitants were of three classes, the

Druids, the

Equites, and

the

Plebs ;

and

the

hierarchy consisted

of

three gradations, the Druids, the Bards, and the Eubates. Wales,

England,

and

Scotland,

were

denominated

Cymru,

Lloeger

and

Alban ;

and Robert of Gloucester gives these names to the three sons of his

fabulous king Brutus.

But this noble prince sones had thre,
By hys wyf Innogen, noble men and fre, Locryn and Kamber and Albanak al so, &c.

c Pennant's Tour in Scotl., P. ii., p. 15.

7 The triads of the bards, like the proverbs of every country in the

world, were a series of truisms wrapt up in pithy sentences adapted

to oral transmission; and it appears highly probable that many of

the

abstruse

secrets

of religion ;

the

sacred

lore

of Druidism ;

the

institutional maxims of the bards, were communicated in this form, as

well calculated for being treasured up in the memory; for we have it

on record that these secrets were contained in 2(XOOO verses, which

required twenty years' study to understand perfectly. (P. Mela, 1. 3,

c. 2. Ces., 1. 6. c. 2.) The public triads, however, which were scat-

tered amongst the people, did not exceed three hundred, according to

tradition (W. Arch., vol. 2, p. 75), of which little more than a third

part have descended to our times (Dav. Dm., p. 30).

s Toland. Druids, p. 108.

152

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

west by the south, 9 accompanied all their rites whether

civil

or

10
religious,

and

nothing

was

accounted

sanctified

without

the

performance

of this

preliminary

11
ceremony.

They entertained a similar veneration for the number

12
seven;

taught

that

the

upper

regions of the air

contained

seven

heavens ;

and gave

to

man

seven

external

senses,

appetite and aversion being added to hearing, seeing,
feeling, tasting, and smelling. The combinations of

seven and three were hence, in all their forms, esteemed

sacred. Thus their great period of thirty years was pro-

duced by the sum of seven and three multiplied by

three ;

and

we have already seen that the magical num-

ber one hundred and forty-seven was so much esteemed

because it proceeded from the square of 7x3. Several

Druid monuments are still in existence, consisting of

nineteen

upright

stones

2
(7-J-3+3 ),

in

allusion to

the

cycle of the sun and moon, commonly called the Metonic

cycle, which was familiar to the Druids of Britain.13

9 This custom might probably have been adopted from the Pythagorean philosophy, which represented Light by the circular motion from east to west, and Darkness by the contrary course. Thus

Timoeus the Locrian says, in a disquisition on the science of astronomy, "The sun maketh day in performing his course from east to west, and night by motion from west to east."
10 Jamieson. Scot. Diet, in vo. Widdersinnis.

11 It may be added that this number was invested with peculiar
properties, by every nation under heaven, some referring its origin to the three great circles in the heavens, two of which the sun touches

in his annual course, and the third he passes over; and others to some ancient, though mutilated tradition of either the Trinity, or the

arkite triad.

A 12

Vide

ut

supra,

Lect.

7 5

in

nota.

13 Diod. Sic.,-1. xii., c. 6.

striking monument of Druidism, both

with respect to form and situation, still exists near Keswick, which

contains an adytum in complete preservation, and has been constructed

with a due regard to the sacred numbers. It is called Carles or

Castle Rigg, and is about thirty paces (7-|-3x3) from east to west,

and twenty-one (3x7) from north to south. The adytum is situated

at the eastern extremity, and consists of a quadrangular inclosure

seven paces by three. At about three paces without the inclosure on

the west, stood a single upright stone which is now broken, so that

the primitive elevation cannot be ascertained. It was a representa-

tive of the deity. From this august temple a view was presented to

the eye of the superstitions Briton, calculated to awaken all his ener-

gies, and rouse the latent sparks of devotion. The holy mountain of

Skiddaw, with its single elevated peak soaring up to heaven ; Carrick

Heigh with its two peaks ; and Saddleback, or more properly, Blenc-

Arthur, with its perfect character of three distinct peaks, were all

DOCTRINES OF THE DRUIDS.

163

The possession of the orchard containing one hundred

and forty-seven apple trees above noticed was, however,

figurative. The orchard represented the place of initia-

tion ;

the apple

trees were

the

Druids ;

the white blos-

soms, their garments; the fruit, their doctrine, while

the strong and vigorous branches represented their power

and authority, which, in many cases, exceeded that of

the monarch. They were the sole interpreters of reli-

gion, and consequently superintended all sacrifices, for

no private person was allowed to offer a sacrifice without

their sanction. They possessed the power of excommu-

nication, which was the most horrible punishment that

could

be

inflicted ;

and,

from

the

effects

of this

curse,

the

highest magistrate was not exempt. They resided in

sumptuous

palaces,

and

sat

on

thrones

of

14
gold.

The

great council of the realm was not competent to declare

war or conclude peace without their concurrence. They determined all disputes by a final and unalterable de-

cision

15
;

and

even

had

the

power

of inflicting

the

punish-

ment of death.

visible from this consecrated spot ; lending alike their aid to light up

the fire of

religion

in his

soul ;

and

to

expand his mind with venera-

tion
w

for the powerful author of such Dion. Chrys., cited by Borlase.

stupendous Ant. Corn.,

imagery. p. 79.

15 The Logan, or rocking stone, was a fearful engine of Druidical

judgment, and erected for the purpose of imposing a degree of rever-

ence for the persons of the Druids, which was unattainable by ordi-

nary means. This kind of artificial curiosity is of great antiquity.

Faber (Mys. Cab., vol. i., p. Ill,) says, that it was in allusion to the

scriptural Bethel (Gen. xxviii., 19), that Sanchoniatho mentions

'' that Uranus contrived stones, called Betulia, which possessed the

power of motion as if they were instinct with life. These were, in all

probability, sacred

Rocking

Stones ;

numbers

of

which,

erected

by

the Druids, are to be found in various parts of our own island." The

people were impressed with an idea that no power but the all-con-

trolling fiat of the divinity could move these stones upon their basis,

and hence they were referred to as oracles to determine the innocence

A or guilt of an accused person.

stupendous specimen of the Logan

is found at Brimham Craggs in Yorkshire, which is thus described by Mr. Rock in the Archaeology (vol. viii.) : " It rests upon a kind of

pedestal, and is supposed to be about one hundred tons in weight on

each side. On examining the stone, it appears to have been shaped

to a small knob at the bottom to give it motion, though my guide,

who was about seventy years old, born on the moors, and well ac-

quainted with these rocks, assured me that the stone had never been known to rock; hoAvever, upon my making trial round it, when 1

came to the middle of one side, I found it moved with great ease.

The astonishing increase of the motion with the little force I gave it,

154

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

The lowest degree of the mysteries conveyed the

power of vaticination in its minor divisions. Borlase

16
says,

" The

Eubates

or vates

were

of

the

third

or

lowest

class; their name, as some think, being derived from

Tlwda, which, amongst the Irish, commonly signifies

magic, and

their

business was to foretell

future

events ;

to be ready on all common occasions to satisfy the inqui-

ries of the anxious and credulous." The Druids practised

augury for

the

public

service

of the

state 17 while ;

the

Eubates were merely fortune-tellers, and dealers in

charms and philtres, to recover lost treasure, or to excite

the

soft

passion

of

love ;

and they were the authors of

an abundance of ridiculous superstitions and absurd cere-

monies to promote good fortune or avert calamity, many

of

which

remain

to

this

18
day.

Symbolical instruction is recommended by the con-

stant usage of antiquity ; and retained its influence

throughout all ages, as a system of mysterious communi-

cation. Even the Deity himself, in his revelation to

man, condescended to adopt the use of material images

for the purpose of enforcing sublime truths, as is evident

made me very apprehensive the equilibrium might be destroyed ;

but, on examining it, I found it was so nicely balanced that there was

no danger of it falling. The construction of this equipoised stone

must have been by artists well skilled in the powers of mechanics."

Dr. Borlase has described these stones with much minuteness (Ant.

Corn., b. iii., c. 4).

16 Ant. Corn., p. 67.

We p.

17 u 14),

have many " of Druid men

instances,"
and women

says Stukeley (Itin. Cur., vol. ii., endued with the spirit of prophecy.

I shall mention but one out of Josephus (Ant. Jud., xviii.). The Jewish Agrippa fell into the displeasure of Tiberius, who put him in bonds. As he stood leaning against a tree before the palace, an owl perched upon that tree: a German Druid, one of the Emperor's

guards, spoke to him to be of good cheer, for he should be released

from those bonds, and arrive at great dignity and power ; but bid him

remember that when he saw the bird again, he should live but five

days. All this came to pass. He was made king by Caligula ; St.

Paul

preached

before

him ;

and

Josephus speaks of his

death agreea-

bly to the prediction."

18 The system of vaticination was ultimately prostituted by the Druids themselves to unworthy purposes, in which fraud and pecuni-

ary emolument appear to be the most striking features. Dr. Borlase and Meyrick have enumerated, at great length, these glaring impositions on a superstitious and abused people, and their respective works
may be referred to by those who feel any curiosity on the subject.

(Ant. Corn., b. ii., c. 21. Meyrick. Hist. Cardig, Introd.)

DOCTRINES OF THE DRUIDS.

155

throughout

the

prophetical

and

19
inspired writings.

The

mysterious knowledge of the Druids, in like manner, was

imbedded
initiation,

in signs and says, " The

symbols. Taliesin, describing
secrets were imparted to me

his
by

the

old

giantess,

without

the

use

of audible

20
language."

And again, in the poem called his Chair, he says, " I am

a

silent

21
proficient."

The symbols which could contain

the learning and morality of the Druids, must necessarily

have been both numerous and significant. From a mul-

tiplicity of these emblems, I have selected the following,

as being decidedly characteristic of the people and of the

institution.

The anguinum ovum was a very important symbol, and

contained some highly mysterious allusions. As an Egg

is the fountain of life, this serpent's egg referred, properly,

to the Ark while it floated on the expanse of waters, and

held within its inclosure every living creature. It was

attended by a serpent entwined round the centre of the

amulet, to signify the superintending care which an eternal

Being

affords

to

his

22
worshippers.

It had the reputed

19 See.

particularly, the

books of Jeremiah

and

Ezekiel ;

the

Parables of Our Saviour, and the Apocalypse. In the Theocratic

Philosophy of Freemasonry, Lect. vii., the subject is copiously ex-

plained.

20 Welsh Archyeol., vol. i., p. 166.

21 Ibid., p. 37. The Druids were great lovers of silence, and enforced

the observance of it with much rigour at their public assemblies. If

a loquacious member incautiously violated the solemn stillness of their

A meetings, he was publicly admonished three several times.

repeti-

tion of the offence was punished by placing a conspicuous mark upon

his robe, and declaring that the sword was naked against him; (Priddeu Annwn, Welsh Arch., vol. i., p. 45,) and if this failed to

correct the impropriety of his conduct, expulsion ensued; and, in

exaggerated cases, a still more severe and signal punishment.

23 The anguinum, or Druids' egg. was said to be produced by a knot

of serpents, and, being propelled into the air, was caught in the vest-

ment of the priest, and carried off with great rapidity, to avoid the

fury of its parents. This egg, if genuine, was said always to float, so

did the Ark. The method of its formation was, however, fabulous, or,

to use the words of Mr. Davies, (Myth. Dru., p. 210,) "was but so much dust thrown into the eyes of the profane multitude." The

Druids were the serpents, and the eggs were crystals curiously con-

trived to conceal within their substance the mysterious tokens of the

highest orders, which were not even revealed to the person in whose

custody they were placed, but on full and substantial proof of his

wisdom and prudence, and in union with the solemn investiture of

their ineffable degrees of perfection, to which no person was eligible as a candidate who could not produce one of these magical crystals, as

a token of due preparation and previous acceptance.

156

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

virtue of procuring

favour

to

the

23
possessor,

and

was

believed capable of conveying a decided advantage in

any legal

suit

or

24
process.

The

serpent

and

25
egg

was

a

symbol of the Ark and its tenant Hu, and no other proof

is wanting of the importance which the Druids attached

to this emblem, than the fact, that the temple of Abury,

one of the most stupendous erections which ancient

Britain could boast, was constructed in the precise form

of a circle, an acknowledged symbol of the arkite egg, to

which a vast serpent was attached.26

The Rainbow was the Druidical emblem of protection;

it was believed, figuratively, to surround the aspirant

when delivered from his confinement in the pastes or
Ark. Thus the Bard says, " My belt has been a Rain-

bow"*11 The Boat bore a reference to the Ark, or its

representative Ceridwen. The glain was a boat of glass,

and was probably presented during the ceremonies of the

insular sanctuary, to the successful probationer, as a

testimony of his competence to be admitted to the

28
superior degrees.

The Wheel was a famous Druidical

23 Toland. Hist. Druids, vol. i., p. 60.
24 So extensively was this belief propagated, that the Emperor Claudius Cesar actually put a gentleman of Rome to death for pleading
a cause with the anguinum in his bosom. (Plin. Nat. Hist., 1. xxix.,
c. 3.)
A 25 splendid variety of this amulet was found by Sir R, C. Hoare,
in a large tumulus in the vicinity of Stonehenge, which Stukeley distinguished by the name of Bush Barrow. It consists of a curious perforated stone of the kind called tabularia, moulded into the form of an egg, and highly polished, and containing, in the veins of the
fossil, an intricate mass of small serpents entwined together in every possible combination. From the situation in which this extraordinary amulet was found, I should pronounce it to be the burial place of the Supreme Archdruid of the British dominions; and, more particularly, as the same tumulus contained, also, a rich breastplate of gold, in the form of a lozenge, and highly decorated with carved work and devices.
26 In war, the British armies were attended by a magical banner, which had been ritually consecrated by the Druids, and emblazoned with a symbolical device. In the centre was a serpent, surmounted by the meridian sun, and supported by the great father and mother of
the human species, personified in Hu and Ceridwen.
27 Marwnad Uthyr Pendragon. Davies, p. 559. 28 The glain and anguinum were evidently artificial, and composed of some vitrified substance, the secret of which was known only to the Druids. They were considered equally potential in the communication of benefits. This boat of glass was a sign or diploma of initiation, which was capable of introducing the possessor to the 'sacred solemni-
ties without examination or proof

DOCTRINES OF THE DRUIDS.

157

symbol, and has been thought to refer to the astronomical cycles. It was, in fact, a representation oi tin- mundane circle, as were also the round temples of JJrit.jiin.
It had a further reference to the rainbow.29 The ll'hitt-

trefoil was a symbol of union, not only from the circum-

stance

of its

including

the

mystical

triad ;

but also

because the Druids saw or pretended to see, in every

leaf, a faint representation of the lunette, or six days

moon, which was an object of their veneration, from its

resemblance to a boat, or ark.30 It was the powerful

pledge or symbol which demanded and conveyed mutual aid in the moment of peril; a never-failing token of

everlasting brotherhood, esteem, goodwill, and assist-

ance, even unto death. The Chain was symbolical of

the penance imposed on every candidate for initiation by

his confinement in the pastos. The phrase, he submitted

to the chain, implied that he had endured the rigours of

preparation and initiation with patience and fortitude. The Spica, or ear of corn, was an emblem of plenty and

prosperity ; and a Wheat straw was an invaluable symbol, and the conservater of many potent virtues.31

The Oak was a symbol of an expanded mind; the

Reed, of deceitfulness ;

and

the Aspen

leaf,

of

32
instability.

The oak tree was the visible representative of Don or

Daron, and was considered as peculiarly sanctified by the gods, if not their immediate residence. The fairest tree33

in

the

34
grove

was,

therefore,

solemnly consecrated to this

29 Thus. Arianrod (Iris) is termed by the bards, the goddess of the silver wheel, who throws her gracious beams of protection round the
candidate when his initiation is completed. (Davies on Ancient

British Coins.)
30 The commencement of their local divisions of time, months, years, and ages, were regulated by the moon when six days old. (Plin. Nat.

Hist., 1. xxv., c. 44.)
A 31 wheat straw, formed into a dart, was supposed, by some

inherent magical sympathies, to be capable of destroying wild beasts

and noxious animals ;

by the same fragile article, compacts were

formed; and, by breaking the straw, an agreement was dissolved.

(Vid. Dav. Celt. Res., p. 178.)

32 Dav. Celt. Res., p. 247.

33 This represented the central tree in the garden of Eden, (Gen. ii.,

9,) and was a transcript of a similar superstition all over the world.

Isaiah gives a curious illustration of this practice, as used by the

idolaters for purification. (Isaiah Ixvi., 17.) 3* Plin. Nat. Hist., 1. xii., c. 1.

158

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

god with many superstitious ceremonies.35 Sometimes
it was divested of its collateral branches, and one of the

largest was so fixed as to preserve the form of a gigantic

cross.36 The Misletoe of the oak was a symbol of protec-

tion in all dangers and difficulties, whether mental or

corporeal. Its medicinal properties were so highly esti-

mated, that it acquired the comprehensive name of All

Heal, and was considered a never-failing remedy for all

diseases.37 It was reputed to counteract the effects of

poison, to prevent sterility; and, in a word, it was

esteemed a grand preservative against all evils, moral

and

33
physical.

The Sclago, Samolus, and other medicinal

plants, were gathered with similar ceremonies, and in-

vested with peculiar virtues. The Beehive was used as

an emblem of industry; but the hive referred to the

Ark, and the initiated, or thrice born, were termed

bees.39 Another symbol of the Ark was the Beaver; and a Cube was the emblem of truth.40

The Druids had also a comprehensive system of sym-

bolical

41
language.

Thus it was said of the uninitiated :

35 Probably from an old tradition of the trees of knowledge and life

in the garden of Eden, (Gen. iii., 5, 22,) for it is certain that the

ideas of science and immortality were combined in this sacred tree.

36 Borl. Ant. Corn., p. 108.

37 Its efficacy depended, however, in a great measure, on the super-

stitions used at the ceremony of detaching it from the tree. The

archdruid, himself, was alone deemed worthy to pluck the rnisletoe;

and, lest it should sustain pollution in the act of gathering, and thus

expose the whole nation to divine vengeance, he very carefully purified

himself with consecrated water. Two white bulls, secured for the

first

time

by the

horns,

(Maur.

Ind.

Ant. }

vol.

vi.,

p.

85,)

were

provided

as an offering of propitiation, and when the moon was six days old,

the archdruid, clad in his white vestment and red tiara, ascended the

tree with naked feet, severed the plant with a golden hook, held in his

left hand, which had never before been used, and received it in the

sagus or sacred vest, amidst the shouts and acclamations of the people.

The bulls were then sacrificed, and prayers offered to the gods, that

they would sanctify their own gift.
38 Plin. Nat. Hist., 1. xvi., c. 44. Acorns were offered in sacrifice

to their deities. (Welsh Archasol., vol. i., p. 66.) 50 In Egypt, the bee was an emblem of a prince ruling his subjects

in prosperity and peace. 10 Borl. Ant. Corn., p. 82. " The Bards had a secret," says Meyrick,

"like the Freemasons, by which they knew one another; and, indeed, it has been supposed by some, that Masonry is Bardism in disguise."

(Hist. Card., Introd.)
41 Thus the sacred phrase, the language of the Chair, which origin-

DOCTRINES OF THE DRUIDS.

169

"
They

know

not

on

what

day

the

stroke

will

be

given;

nor what hour the agitated person would be, born; or

who prevented his going into the dales of Devvvy. They

know not the brindled ox, with the thick headband, having

seen seven score knobs in his collar." 42 Here we have ,m

evident, though concise, description of certain ceremonies
characteristic of the Three Degrees through which the candidate has been successively passed. The stroke and
the new birth have been already explained. The ox with
the thick headband had an undoubted reference to a

peculiar ceremony, which was practised during the initi-

ations.43 It was said to be attended by three Cranes,44

one of which perched on his head, another on the middle

of his back, and the third at the extremity, near the tail.

These birds emblematically represented the Sun'13 at his

rising, meridian, and setting, personified in the three

A principal officers in the mysteries.

crane symbolized

the

vigilant

priesthood,

and

was

sacred

to

the

sun 4G ;

and

hence the strict propriety of the emblem. The headband

pointed out the state of subjection to which the animal

ally denoted the sacred method of communicating the most sublime

mysteries of the Order, without the actual pronunciation of words,

was at length clothed with the highest degree of importance by being

identified with

the

chief

dignity

of Druidism ;

for

the

archdruid, at

the time of his installation, was invested with absolute sovereignty,

and received the significant appellation of Cadeiriaith, the literal

meaning of which is, the language of the chair.

42 Taliesin. Priddeu Annwn, translated by Dav. Dru., Append,

iii.

43 This animal, which was otherwise termed Beer Lied, or the flam-

ing Bull, was a symbol of the patriarch Hu, who subjected him to the

yoke, and instructed the Britons in the art of agriculture, from whence

he derived the name of Centaur, (xev ravgos) or the tamer of the bull.

It referred also to the Sun, of which Hu was the representative.

"Baal, the sun," says Mr. Faber, "was not unfrequently represented

under

the

form of the

Noetic

symbol,

the

Bull ;

while

the

goddess

Baaltis or Baalah, bore the figure of a heifer. Baal and Baaltis are
the same mythological characters as Osiris and Isis (or Hu and Cerid-

wen,)

whose

symbols were, in

a

similar

manner,

a

Dull

and

a

heifer ;

and who were Noah and the Ark. adored in conjunction with the Sun

and Moon".

(Fab.

Mys.

Cab., '

vol.

i.,

p.

189.)

44 Borl. Ant. Corn., p. 106.

45 Here we have in Britain, as in Persia, the emblem of the Bull and

Sun.

46 The Egyptian crane received its name Ibis (is Fire, ax Father.) because it was consecrated to the god of Light ; perhaps from the colour of the bird, which rendered it sacred.

160

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

had been reduced, alluding to the long and weary con-

finement of the candidate in the pastos, where, in the language of the bard, he was " subjected to the yoke for

his affliction ;" and the seven score knobs,47 was a com-

bination

of the

sacred

number

sscvcn

and

three;

2
((7-J-3+3 )

X7+7) and doubtless had some mysterious 'astronomical

allusion.

The divine unity was a doctrine admitted by the

Druids.43 They taught that time was only an intercepted

fragment of eternity ; and there are strong grounds for

believing that they held the Pythagorean hypothesis of

an

endless

succession

of worlds ;

for it

is

well

known

that they believed the earth to have sustained one general

destruction by water ; and expected that it would un-

dergo

another

by

49 fire.

They admitted the doctrines of

the

immortality

of

the

50
soul,

a

future

51
state,

and

a

day

of judgment which will be conducted on the principle of

man's responsibility. In a word, the primitive religion

of

the

Druids

was

purely

patriarchal

52
;

and

they

retain-

ed some knowledge of the redemption of mankind through

the death of a mediator.53 Their place of eternal punish-

ment was a quagmire of never-ending frost, and abound-

ing with noxious insects and venomous reptiles. But,

though the most early Druids practised, with some varia-

tions, the rites of true worship, yet, in process of time,

other deities were introduced into the system ; and at

length, they paid divine honours to deceased mortals, who

were considered the representatives of the sun, the moon,

A and all the host of Heaven.54

tradition

of the

55
Deluge

t

47 In Maurice's Plates of the Indian Avaters, the sacred Cow is uni-

formly depicted with a collar composed of a similar wreath of knobs,

We 48

learn from Selden that their invocations were made to the

ONE all-preserving power ; and they argued that, as this power was not

matter, it must necessarily be the deity ; and the sacred symbol used

to express his Name was O.I.W. (Signs and Symbols, Lect. 2.)

49 Couditum mundum credebant, says Cesar, et aliquando igni peri-

turum.

so Borl< AnL Co

98>

61 Cesar debel. Gal., 1. vi., c. 13.
62
Stukcley. Itin. Cur., vol. ii., p. 14.

M Cesar, ut supra.

84 Vide my 'Hist, of Beverley, p. 19, in nota 14.

55 The legend preserved amongst the British Druids is inserted in

Signs and Symbols, (Lect. 5.) and History of Beverley, (p. 11,) where

it

is

evident

that

the

vessel

without

sails

was

the

Ark

of Noah j

(Gen.

vi., 14,) the bursting of the lake referred to the description of the

great central abyss; (Ibid, vii., 11,) the service performed by the Ychen

DOCTRINES OP THE DRUIDS.

161

was perpetuated in these rites ; perverted, indeed, and

localized, like

that of most

other

nations ;

and

the cir-

cumstances attending this tradition appear to have per-

vaded their most solemn rites and ceremonies. The

doctrine of transmigration formed a leading feature in the

Druidical

56
system,

and

was

extended to the

belief that

the departed soul of a virtuous individual possessed the

secret power of infusing itself at pleasure into any substance, whether animate or inanimate.57

The Druids cultivated, and taught to their disciples,

many

of

the

liberal

58
sciences,

and

particularly

astronomy,

in which they attained a considerable proficiency, displayed in the construction of their religious edifices.59

Banawg, or the oxen of Hu Gadarn, was emblematical of the sun drying

Hu up the waters from the face of the earth; (Ibid, viii., 13,) for

was

the helio-arkite deity; and the assurance of preservation, commemor-

ative of Noah's rainbow, (Ibid. ix. 13,) was undoubtedly symbolized

in the Chair of Ceridwen.

5(5
Cesar,

de bel.

Gal.

1.

vi.,

c.

14.

07 Hence a deceased

friend

could give

force

to

a

warrior's

sword ;

could occupy his shield, or avert a flying javelin, armed with destruc-

tion. This is amply illustrated in the poem of Cynddelw, addressed

to Owen Cyveiliawy, Prince of Powis. (Dav. Dru., p. 15.) "In the

form of a vibrating shield before the rising tumult, borne aloft on the

shoulder of the leader in the form of a lion before the chief with the

mighty wings in the form of a terrible spear with a glittering blade in the form of a bright sword spreading fame in the conflict, and over-
whelming the levelled ranks in the form of a dragon (banner) before
the sovereign of Britain, and in the form of a daring wolf, has Owen

appeared." 58 Alcuin. an Anglo-Saxon writer, says, that in these early times a
liberal education .comprised grammar, rhetoric, arithmetic, geometry, music, and astrology. (Ale. Gram, apud Canis., torn, ii., par. i.. p. 508.) Aldhelm extended it to the seven liberal sciences of Freemasonry.
(Aid. de laud, vir., p. 331.)
It must be confessed, however, that at the period of the Roman in-
vasion under Cesar, the people were still extremely rude in their diet and mode of life. (Strabo, 1. 4, Diod. Sic., 1. 4.) Some^went entirely naked; Xiphil., 1. 21.) others were clothed in the skins of beasts; (Cesar, 1. 5, c. 14.) and the state in which they were found, induced the Romans to style them barbarians. (Herodian.. 1. 3, Pomp. Mela.,

1. 3. c. 6.)
59 The time of celebrating public worship sprang from an application of this science. Thus their ordinary times of devotion were regulated

by

the

phases of the

moon ;

and the

more

solemn

quarterly

assem-

blages took place when the sun arrived at the equinoctial and solstitial

points ; (Stukeley, Abury, p. 68,) which at the era of their establishment, about 4000 years ago, corresponded with our 1st May. which was their grand annual festival, the 19th August, 1st November, and

12

162

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

They considered day as the offspring of night, because

night

or

chaos

was

in

existence

before

day was

created

60
;

and hence their computations were made by nights in

preference

to

61
days.

They divided the heavens into con-

stellations, and were conversant with the laws and

motions of the planets, from which they made celestial

jbservations to determine the result of any important

transaction, and to foretell the prominent events which

were fated to distinguish the lives or fortunes of indi-

viduals ;

thus

converting a noble

science to

the puerile

purposes of judicial astrology.

Their botanical knowledge was extensive, and applied

chiefly to the art of healing; hence Pliny terms the

Druids physicians. They investigated, with great precision, the structure of the human body, and were the

most complete anatomists at that time existing in the world.62 They understood foreign languages, according

to Cesar and Tacitus, and used the Greek character in

their writings

63
;

they

cultivated

the

liberal

sciences ;

and

their system of morality may claim and ensure our approbation, if the Welsh triads are of any authority. In the
Mythology of the British Druids,64 Mr. Davies has given

a copious collection of the moral precepts which were

13th February. The four seasons of the year were denominated
Gwanwyn (Spring), Hav (Summer), Hydrev (Autumn), and Ganav

(Winter.) 60 Seld. in Gibs. Camd., col. xv.

6 1 The Hebrews had the same peculiarity. The evening and the

morning were the first day. (Gen. i., 5.) This mode of computing

time is still retained among us, for seven days are usually expressed

by the word sen'night ; fourteen days by fortnight, &c. The Druids

used lunar observations, and regulated their festivals by the aspect of

the moon. Their ages were of thirty years' duration, each year con-

taining twelve lunations, or 354 days.
62 It is presumed that they acquired much information on the sub-

ject of medicine from Pythagoras, who learned it in Chaldea, ( Apuleius) and practiced his own precepts by ueing the most temperate system

of diet, his food being chiefly composed of bread, herbs, and honey.

(Porph. .de Abstin.) The same practice was recommended by the

Druids, and hence the longevity of this order of men is satisfactorily

accounted for. Pythagoras wrote a treatise on medicinal herbs, and

another on the sea onion, (Plin. Nat. Hist.,) which, it is said, he com-

municated

to

the Druids ;

and

his

instruction,

added

to

their

own

sedulous investigations into the causes of diseases, soon conferred on

them a high and merited celebrity in the science of medicine.

03 Cesar, de bel. Gal., 1. vi.

6 Page 76-79.

DOCTRINES OF THE DRUIDS.

163

derived from the Druidical institution ; and these pre-

cepts often produced a corresponding purity of thought,

for it is confidently asserted that the bards had such a

sacred

regard

for

the

truth* 5 ,

that it

constituted

the

motto

of their Order 66 ;

and it is even said that they would have

had less reluctance in sacrificing their lives, than in re-

nouncing a strict adherence to the truth in every situation

and transaction of life.

65 Hence the records they have left behind them, whether in the form of triads or historical poems, may be depended on as containing an allusion to pure historical facts or moral precepts. And though sometimes highly figurative, yet they may be referred to with some
degree of confidence, as the depositories of moral, religious or political events which distinguished the times of which they profess to treat.
68 Gerop. Becan.

164

LECTURE X.

HISTORY OF INITIATION INTO THE GOTHIC MYSTERIES.

THE

Gothic

1
Mysteries

were

introduced

by

Sigge,

a

Scythian prince ; who, it is said, abandoned his native

country when it became oppressed by a population too

dense for the comforts and necessities of a pastoral life ;

and, with a chosen band of followers, wandered in search

of another settlement.2 Travelling to the north-west of

Europe, he assumed the name of Odin, the supreme deity

1 The Gothic Mysteries were practised by all the northern nations

of Europe. Mr. Turner (Angl. Sax., vol. iv., p. 18) says, "we are not

authorized to ascribe to the Saxon deities the apparatus and mytholo-

gy which the northern Scalds of subsequent ages have transmitted

to us from Denmark, Norway, and Iceland ;" meaning, undoubtedly,
the mythology of the Eddas. I am inclined to think, however, that

the Norwegians, Danes, and Saxons all practised the Gothic supersti-
tion, as it was remodelled by Sigge, who assumed the name of Odin a

few years before the birth of Christ. This celebrated individual, after

having established himself in Scandinavia, placed his sons in the

territory around him as viceroys, and their respective divisions, after

his death, became independent kingdoms. Suarlami had assigned to

him a part of

Russia ;

Baldeg had Western

Saxony, and Segdeg

East

Saxony (Mai. North. Ant., vol. i., p. 62) ; and they would, doubtless, introduce his system of Religion amongst their new subjects, because

they had experienced its advantages in enslaving the minds of an

ignorant and superstitious people, and placing them implicitly under

the control of their superiors. At this period the religion of Europe

may be divided into four grand divisions the Roman, the Celtic, the

Sclavonian, i

they would,
ancient Germans, Gothic race, professed' that system of polytheism afterwards' delivered
in the Edda and the Franks and Saxons who afterwards settled in ;
Gaul and Britain, being of Gothic race, introduced the polytheism of their own nation, which was in general the same with what prevailed among all the other Gothic or Teutonic people, viz., the Germans.
Scandinavians," &c. (Mai. North. Ant., Intr., vi., Note.)
2 The Scythian and Hyperborean doctrines and mythology may be traced in every part of these eastern regions ; nor can we doubt that
Wod or Odin, whose religion, as the northern historians admit, was
introduced into Scandinavia by a foreign race, was the same with Buddh, whose rites were probably imported into India nearly at the same time, though received much later by the Chinese, who softened his name into Fo. (Asiat. Res., vol. i., p. 425.)

THE GOTHIC MYSTERIES.

165

of

the

3
Scandinavians,

and

in his progress

founded

many

empires, and performed such prodigies of valour, as are

wholly incredible, except to the believers in Scandina-

vian tradition. In every country which he subdued, he

introduced the eastern mysteries, modelled into a form

subservient

to

his

own

secret

4
purposes.

He placed over

the celebrations twelve hierophants, whom he styled

Drottes, and invested them with uncontrollable authori-

ty ; they were alike priests, and counsellors of state,

and judges, from

whose

decision

there

was

no

5
appeal.

Their power was extended to its utmost limits, by being

allowed a discretionary privilege of determining on the

choice of human victims for sacrifice. Even the monarch

was not exempt from this choice. Hence arose the

necessity of cultivating the esteem of these sovereign pontiffs ; for if an officer of the highest dignity in the state became obnoxious to the Drottes, as the dreaded

arbiters of life and death, from whose decision there was

no appeal,

his life was held

by a very uncertain

tenure ;

for at the very next celebration it was almost sure to be

offered up in sacrifice to the gods. This privilege was an abundant and never-failing source

of wealth as well as influence ; for the superstitious peo-

ple, in the hope of averting a calamity so exceedingly

dreadful,

were

profuse

in

their offerings

and

oblations ;

and in times of general calamity, when the blood of

human victims6 was necessary to appease their sanguinary

3 Mai. North. Ant., vol. i., c. 4.

4 The fact is, that the system of the warlike Sacas was of a military

cast, and hence differed materially from the corresponding system

practised by the hierophants of India, Greece, and Britain, derived, as

they were, from the same source, on the plains of Chaldea. In a word,

the two great Sects into which primitive idolatry had been divided,

to serve the ambitious policy of their professors, were practised by

the Britons and the Saxons, two immediate neighbours, who were

ultimately blended into one and the same people.

5 Mai. North. Ant., vol. i., p. 65. From this order proceeded the

establishment of British juries, consisting of the same number of men,

invested with similar powers.

6 These sacrifices were all conducted on a principle of veneration

for the

sacred

numbers three

and nine ;

for every thrice three months,

thrice three victims, many of them human, on each of the thrice three

days of the festival's continuance, were offered in sacrifice to the tri-une god. (Mai. North. Ant., vol. i., p. 133.) " The number nine

has long been held in great veneration among the Tartars, whence,

probably, the Scandinavians derived their origin. All presents made

166

HISTORY OF INITIATION

deities, the oblations of the Drottes were of increased
value, in proportion with the expected danger of the trembling suppliant. Hence, as this order of men, like the Israelitish priesthood, was restricted to one family, they became possessed of unbounded wealth, and erected splendid palaces for their residence. These immunities
and distinctions increasing their power in every age, they ultimately became so proud, overbearing, and tyrannical, as to be objects of terror to all other classes of the com-
munity, which, in the end, accelerated their destruction. It was, indeed, credulity on the one hand, as well as artifice and imposture on the other, which originally
placed the people thus at the entire disposal of the
priest; but they at length grew weary of the increased oppressions under which they groaned ; and, with minds thus prepared for any change which might promise to deliver them from the tyranny of priestly domination, the inhabitants of Scandinavia embraced the offer of

Christianity with

enthusiasm ;

and, inspired with a

fanatical spirit of vengeance for accumulated and long-

continued suffering, they retaliated with dreadful severity

on their persecutors, and destroyed every vestige of the

ancient religion. The palaces and temples, the statues

of their gods, and all the paraphernalia of heathen super-

stition, perished

in

one

common

ruin 7 ;

and

nothing

remains to show the character of this religion, but a few

Cromlechs ;

some stupendous monuments of rough stone

which human fury was unable to destroy ; certain ranges

of caverns hewn out of the solid rock for the purpose of

initiation, and some natural grottos which were, undoubt-

edly, applied to the same purpose.

The great festivals, annually commemorated by this

to their princes consist, in general, of nine of each article. At all

their feasts this number and its combinations are always attended to

in their dishes of meat, and in their skins of wine, and other liquors.

At one entertainment, mentioned by the Tartar king Abulgazi Khan,

there were nine thousand sheep, nine hundred horses, ninety-nine

vessels of brandy, &c. Even the roving Tartars rob the caravans by

this

rule ;

and will

rather

take

nine

of anything

than

a

greater number.

Abulgazi Khan, in the preface to his history, says, " I have divided

it into nine parts, to conform myself to the custom of other writers,
who all have this number in particular esteem." (Rich. Dissert.,

p. 270.) 7 Mai. North. Ant., vol. i., p. 129.

INTO THE GOTHIC MYSTERIES.

167

people, were three ; the most magnificent of which com-

menced at the winter solstice, and was celebrated in

honour of Thor, the prince of the power of the air.8 It was commemorative of the creation; for, being the

longest

night

in

the

9
year,

they

assigned

to

it

the

forma-

tion of the world from primeval darkness, and called it

MOTHER-NIGHT. This festival was denominated Yule,

Juul,

or Yeol, 11 and

was

a

season

of

universal

12
festivity.

At the nocturnal meetings of this sacred celebration, the

initiations were performed on

a

superb

scale ;

for it was

believed that the succeeding season would be fruitful or

unpropitious,

in

proportion

with

the

13
sumptuous

or

8 VerstegSn says, that " in the ayre hee gouerned the wyndes and

the clowdes ;

and,

being

displeased,

did

cause

lightning,

thunder,

and

tempests, with excessive rain, and all il weather. But, being wel

pleased by the adoration, sacrifice, and seruice of his supplyants, hee

then

bestowed upon

them

most

fayre

and

seasonable weather ;

and

caused

corne

abundantly to growe ;

as

also

all

sortes

of

fruites,

&c. 3

and kept away from them the plague, and all other evill and infectious

diseases."

(Rest.

Dec.

In tell.,

p.

75.)

9 The feast was, in fact, sacred to Darkness, that great and awful

principle which was a stumbling-block to the whole heathen world.

Mai. North. Ant., vol. i.. p. 358.

1 Vid. Jamieson. Scott. Diet., v. Yule.
12 When Christianity was first promulgated in the northern nations,

the missionaries found the inhabitants unwilling to relinquish this

annual rejoicing; the festival was, therefore, applied to the nativity

of Christ ;

and hence the Yule

Feast was denominated Christmas.

On

the eve of the first day of the festival or Mother-Night, fires of wood

blazed throughout the whole extent of northern Europe ; hence the origin of our Yule-clog. The peace-offerings dedicated to Thor at this season were cakes of flour sweetened with honey; hence the

Yule-cake. Subjects at this festival presented their annual gifts or

benevolences to their sovereign (Johnston, Antiq. Celto-Scand., p.
230) ; hence Christmas-boxes, New-year-gifts, fyc. The candles of the Sun were said to illuminate the northern dwellings on the night before

Yule ;

and

hence

arose the custom of

burning

large

candles

at

this

solemnity ; for it boded ill luck to the family for the succeeding year
if a second candle were lighted; whence our Yule-candles. (Vid.
Jamieson, Scot. Diet., v. Yule, vi.) I am informed by a Danish Brother, that cakes are still made in Denmark, of a particular form, at

this season, composed of the finest flour, eggs, currants, and other ingredients ; and are called Juule-Kdger.
is "The ancient inhabitants of the North were never at a loss for

the means of celebrating their Yule. Johnson (Antiq. Celto-Normann.)

has a note referring to this subject, which exhibits their character in

its true light. The Scandinavian expeditions, he says, were anciently

A conducted in the following manner:

chieftain sailed with a few

ships for Britain, and collected all the scattered adventurers he could

find in his way. They landed on the coast, and formed a temporary

"-

I ,1

168

HISTORY OF INITIATION

parsimonious manner in which this festival was con-

ducted. The next celebration was dedicated to Frea, 14

the

goddess of

15
pleasure ;

and

commenced

on

the

first

quarter of the second moon in the new year ; and the

third was celebrated in honour of Odin, the god of bat-

tles. It commenced at the beginning of Spring, and was

celebrated with great magnificence in the hope of a suc-

cessful warfare

in

the

16
ensuing campaign.

These were

the three principal

times of

celebration ;

but the initia-

tions were performed at innumerable other smaller festi-

fortress. To this strong hold they drove all the cattle, and, having

salted them, the freebooters returned home, where they spent their Jol [Yule] or brumal feast with much glee. Such an expedition was

called Strandhoggua, or a strand slaughter." ( Jamieson, Scot. Diet.,

v. Yule, iii.)
14 This goddess was the same as the Grecian Mylitta or Venus, and probably derived her name from Phree, to be fruitful.
15 Frea was esteemed equally the wife and daughter of Odin. (Mai. North. Ant., vol. ii., p. 30.)
16 It was esteemed disgraceful in any individual to quit these festivals

sober. (Mai. North. Ant., vol. i., p. 137.) Hence excessive drinking introduced the attendant custom of vows and pledges. Each person present, before he put the cup to his mouth, made some vow to the

tutelary deity of the festival, for the purpose of securing his protection.
When this had been performed by the whole company, the ceremony

of pledging each other commenced. The president, or chief person,
taking the Cup, called publicly on the next in rank to pledge him, and, after drinking, placed the cup in his hand. The next inferior personage was drank to in the same manner, and so the toast proceeded round the board. Hence the origin of drinking Healths. This social custom was introduced into Britain by Hengist, at a banquet prepared by him in honour of Vortigern. " At this feast, Rowena, instructed by her

uncle, presented to the aged prince a cup of spiced wine, and, with

smiles, welcomed him with the words Waes heal hlaford Cyning ;

my i. e., Be of health,

lord king ;

to which, through his interpreter, he

answered, Drinc heal, or, I drink your health." (Brady, Clav. Cal.,

vol. ii
,

p. 320.)

Or, as it is more poetically expressed by Milman

(Samor, Lord of the Bright city),

She, by wond'ring gaze Unmov'd, and stifled murmurs ot applause, Nor yet unconscious, slowly won her way To where the King, amid the festal pomp,

Sate loftiest. As she rais'd a fair clasp'd cup,

Something of sweet confusion overspread

Her features ;

something tremulous

Ibroke in

O" nHehaelrthhatlof-tfhaeilKinignagcc!'e' ntthse,

as she said, sparkling wine

laugh'd

up

As eager 't were to touch so fair a lip.

It was a custom of this people to indulge themselves in drinking a liquor made from honey for thirty days after the marriage of their
principal men; whence arose our phrase of the Honey-moon.

INTO THE GOTHIC MYSTERIES.

169

Veils ; which, in fact, could be held as frequently as
individuals chose to subject themselves to the expense.
The palace of Thor, which is thus described in the Edda, 17 was nothing more than a cavern18 of initiation

17 Fab. 11, apud. Mai. North. Ant., voL ii., p. 65. 18 The northern nations abound with natural caverns which were

admirably adapted

to the purposes

of

initiation ;

and were, doubtless,

applied by this people to the celebration of their mysterious rites.

One of these caves was personally inspected by Bishop Pontoppidon,

and, as it bears a striking resemblance to our own cavern at Castleton, in the Peak of Derbyshire, in which the Druidical mysteries were

unquestionably celebrated,
that author's own words.

I "shHaelalrmiangkeatnothaepoplaorgsyofnoargdeesocfriObeirnsgkoitugi,n

that, in the district of the annexed chapelry of Strande, not far 'from

thence a stream had been found, which issued through a rock from

the side of a mountain called Limur. and over it a cavern which,

probably, followed the stream, but of the length of which I could

procure no account; I resolved to examine it myself, as on my visitation

to Nordal I was to pass near it. I furnished myself with a tinder-box,

candle, a lantern, and a long line to serve me instead of Ariadne's

My clue.

boat put me ashore at the foot of the aforesaid mountain of

Limur. But, being extremely steep, we were obliged to climb with
our hands as well as feet, and sometimes we were hard put to it to clear our way through the hazel and alder-bushes. On the side of this laborious ascent, we met with a rivulet streaming out, which

directed us to the cavern. It is, indeed, something wonderful, being a kind of natural conduit, formed purely by the force of the water

through the solid rock, which was a compound mass, mostly consisting

of grey pebbles, but about the conduit, of a clear, grey marble, with
blueish veins; had this natural structure been raised by human skill, it would have been a work of no small expense ; for a few paces after

getting through the thicket, which almost hides the aperture of the

cavern, one is surprised with a vaulted passage of pure marble, without

the least flaw or breach, but with several angles and protuberances,

all so polished, as if it had been a paste moulded into smooth, globular

forms. About a hundred paces forward, the passage continues in a

straight direction, then winds off to the right with ascents and descents, and in some places growing narrower, and in others widen-

ing to double its former breadth, which, according to my admeasure-

ment, was

about

four

or

five

ells, and the height

about three ;

thus

two persons could go abreast, except that they were now and then

obliged to stoop, and even creep, and then they felt a damp vapour

my like that of a burial vault. This prevented

penetrating so far as

I had intended. Another thing remarkable, was the terrible roaring

of the waters under us, the course of which was what most excited
my wonder, as over it lies a pavement of smooth stone, inclining a

little like a vault on each side, but flat in the middle, and not above
three fingers thick, with some small crevices through which the
water may be seen." (Pontop. Hist. Norw., p. 48.) Here we find every characteristic which attended the process of initiation. The

roaring of the waters; the narrow subterranean passages, which

170

HISTORY OF INITIATION

into the mysteries. " The most illustrious among the
gods is Thor. His kingdom is called Thrudwanger. He

possesses there a palace in which are five hundred and

forty halls. It is the largest house that is known; according as we find mentioned in the poem of Grimnis.

There are five hundred and forty halls in the winding

palace of the god Thor ; and I believe there is no where

a greater fabric than this of the eldest of sons."

This magnificent structure is termed, a winding palace.

The caverns of initiation were usually constructed with

a variety of intricate windings and turnings excavated

with great care and ingenuity, the mazes of which were

difficult to thread, except by those who were intimately

acquainted with every private mark, placed as a clue to

direct

their

19
progress.

Hence in the eastern nations

they were frequently termed labyrinths.

It contained five hundred and forty halls. The usual

residence of this rude people consisted chiefly of wretched

huts, or burrows in the earth, where they existed in

almost a state of torpidity when unengaged in warlike

expeditions. Hence every habitation which excluded

the open air, if it contained only a single apartment, was

dignified

with

the

name

of

a

Hall

20
;

if it included several

rooms it was termed a Palace.21 If an intricate cavern

terminated in a spacious vault, as the Mithratic grottos, or places of initiation, always did, it was esteemed, in this inhospitable climate, a residence, or palace, fit for

formed the descent into the bowels of the mountain the water of ;
purification; the pastes, replete with a damp vapour like that of 'a funeral vault, the emblem of which it undoubtedly was. It is not likely that this people would overlook a cavern which Nature had provided ; decorated with superb pillars of polished marble, and furnished withan apparatus capable of performing almost all the ma-
chinery of initiation.
19 Worm. Monum. Dan., 1. i., p. 6. Many of these stupendous works of art still remain in Norway and Sweden.
20 Bede, 1. ii., c. 13. 21 Oliver's Hist. BeverK, p. 38. This might also refer to the solar
system. From the path of the planets moving in their orbits at various distances from the sun, it is called a winding palace ; and the 540 Halls referred, most probably, to the precession of the equinoxes. The eastern nations, from whom the Scandinavians derived their
origin, thought that the fixed stars advanced at the rate of 54 minutes
in the first sexagenary cycle, which gives exactly 540 minutes for the entire change in the great luni-solar period of 600 years.

INTO THE GOTHIC MYSTERIES.

171

the reception of the celestial gods. Hence arose the veneration of the initiated for these grottos. The enthusiastic recollections which the ceremonies of initiation
never failed to inspire, joined with the splendid appearance exhibited in the sacellum on these occasions, which
is described in the Edda22 as glittering with burnished
gold, could scarcely fail to leave an indelible impression on the mind of the astonished candidate, who, before
this time, had, perhaps, never entered an apartment which displayed any appearance of comfort or conveni-
ence.

This palace was the residence of Thor, the Sun. This
luminary was a conspicuous object of adoration in all

the ancient mysteries, particularly those of Persia, the
great model on which the Scandinavian system was

founded; the one being consecrated to Thor-As, and

the other to Mi-Thr-As; the same god, possessed of the

same attributes

and

almost

the

same

name ;

and

alike

esteemed by their respective votaries, as the first begot-
ten Son, and a Mediator, as well as visibly represented by the Sun.23

It was situate in the kingdom of Thrudwanger ; the literal

meaning of which, according to M. Mallet, is a place of

Now refuge from terror.

the great Hall of this palace,

or, in language less metaphorical, the sacellum of the

grotto of initiation, literally answered this description ;

for the candidates w'ere not introduced int.o it until the

rites were all finished ;

and, consequently, at the

portal

of this sacellum, their fears would naturally subside.

And when introduced into the sacred presence, called,

by way of eminence,

Gladheim,

or the

abode

of

24
joy,

they saw the twelve Drottes, seated on as many thrones,

habited like the twelve celestial gods, in robes of ex-

quisite richness, shining with gold, and jewels, and pre-

cious

stones 25 ;

they might

naturally fancy themselves in

28 Fab. 1. Mai. North. Ant, vol. ii., p. 2.

23 1 doubt not, though the Eddas are wholly silent on the subject,

but in the principal Hall of this palace or place of initiation, divided,

probably, into twelve compartments, in reference to the twelve Signs

of the Zodiafc, the god was designated by a Plate of burnished gold placed conspicuously in the centre of the roof, and strongly illuminated

byMflEadmdian.g

torches. Fab. 7.

26 Ibid., Fab. 1.

172

HISTORY OF INITIATION

the regions of the blessed ; of which this was, indeed,

the avowed representation. And, as the succeeding

ceremonies were all pleasurable, it is not surprising that

they should adopt an hyperbolical phraseology, and

esteem this magnificent place as a palace of the gods in

the ever-blessed kingdom of Thrudwanger.

It would be useless to repeat minutely the forms of

initiation, after the many specimens you have already

heard ;

suffice

it

to

say, that

the

candidate, being duly

26
prepared

by

fasting

and

mortification,

and

the

usual

preliminary ceremonies and sacrifices, dances, and circu-

lar

processions

being

27
accomplished,

he

was

introduced,

with

naked

23
feet,

into

the

sacred

cavern,

and

conducted

by a winding descent to the tomb of Volva the prophet-

ess, amidst the shades of darkness and the terrific howling

of dogs. Passing onward, however, with resolute intre-

pidity, he soon beheld, in a thin flame of light, the canine

guardian of the holy sepulchre, whose fangs appeared to

be smeared with the blood of some hardy adventurer,

26 Pontoppidan. in his History of Norway (p. 248), thus describes

the robust exercises practised by the inhabitants of the northern nations. " King Olaf Tryggeson was stronger and more nimble than

any man in his dominions. He could climb up the rock Smalserhorn^

and fix his

shield upon the

top

of it ;

he could walk round

the

outside

of a boat, upon the oars, while the men were rowing ; he could play

with three darts, alternately throwing them in the air. and always

kept two of

them up, while he held the thircl in

one of

his hands ;

he

was

ambidexter, and

could cast

two

darts at

once ;

he excelled

all

the

men of his time in shooting with the bow ; and in swimming he had

no equal. Sigmund Brestesen used to practise these exercises with

the king, viz., swimming, shooting, climbing the rocks, and all other

manly exercises which heroes and warriors practised in those times,

and none could come so near the king in all these, as Sigmund."
27 I am not sure whether the disease called St. Vitus's dance (chorea

S. Viti) may not have had some connection with this ceremony. There

were three Vituses amongst our Saxon ancestors, who were worshipped

as deities. Rugi-Vitus, who was represented with seven faces; Pon-

Vitus. with five heads ; and Swanto-(sancto) Vitus, with four heads.

This latter worthy was worshipped by a circular dance ; and every year, ninety and nine persons were offered to him in sacrifice. He

had a white horse, which was placed in charge of the priests, and

dedicated to the sun. This horse is supposed by Schedius to be the

-original of the silver horse in the shield of the Hengist ; and probably

also of the Hanoverian horse which still occupies a quarter of the

escutcheon of pretence in the royal arms of Great Britian. Sarnmes,

in his Britannia, has given engravings of the above deities.

28
Strabo, 1. yii.

INTO THE GOTHIC MYSTERIES.

173

whose life had recently paid the forfeit of his rash at-
tempt to explore the forbidden recesses of the consecrated vault.29 The hollow caverns re-echoed with his howl-

ings. Regardless of the posture of defiance assumed by this hideous monster, the candidate was urged forward
by his conductor, and, passing this unreal shape, entered the portal, and in the east found a spacious apartment,
in the centre of which was the Pastos or Tomb where

the oracle was immured.30 In the distance, a vision of

the regions of death (hela) was presented to his eyes, and he beheld a splendid throne which appeared de-

signed for some

person of distinction ;

but

it

was

31
empty.

Here

the

mysterious

rites

of invocation commenced ;

magical characters were inscribed in squares, triangles,

and circles ; and charmed rhymes of irresistible potency were repeated. The incantations being complete, the

reluctant prophetess signified her intention of uttering

an

oracular

32
response.

The candidate was instructed to

question her respecting the fate which awaited Balder, a
benevolent deity who was under the protection of the

celestial gods ; and, though deemed invulnerable, was,

nevertheless, supposed to be in imminent danger from

the unsuspected efforts of subtlety and malice. To this

demand the prophetess answered, that Balder should

suffer by the intervention of Loke, the adversary of the

33
gods,

who,

by

a

sprig

of

misletoe

in

the

hands

of a

29 " The dog who guards the gates of death, meets him. His hreast

and his jaws are stained with blood ; he opens his voracious mouth to bite, and barks a long time at the father of magic." (Ancient Runic Poem in Mai. North. Ant., vol. ii., p. 220.)
30 " Odin pursues his way ; his horse causes the infernal caverns to

resound and tremble ; at length he reaches the deep abode of death,

and stopped near the eastern gate where stands the tomb of the pro-

phetess." (Ancient Poem, as above.) 31 Runic Poem.

32 " He sings to her verses adapted to call up the dead. He looks

towards the north ;

he

engraves

the

Runic

characters

on her tomb ;

he utters

mysterious words ;

he

demands

an

answer ;

until

the

pro-

phetess is constrained to arise, and thus utter the words of the dead.
k Who is this unknown that dares disturb my repose, and drag me from my grave, wherein I have lien dead so long, all covered with

snow, and moistened with the rains,'" &c. (Ancient Poem, as above.) 33 This people believed in the existence of an evil principle, who was
named Loke, and was esteemed the great adversary of gods and men.

This pernicious deity was the prince of fraud and perfidy; a perfect

master of all the arts of dissimulation, and addicted solely to the prac-

174

HISTORY OF INITIATION

blind man, shall inflict wounds producing instant death.

The candidate, pressing onwards, soon heard the cries

and

bewailings

for

the

death

of

34
Balder,

who

was

bitterly

lamented by the deities who had been the innocent cause

of his destruction. He was then confined within the

35
Pastos,

a

cell

composed

of

three

sharp-edged

stones,

tice of evil. He married the daughter of the giantess Anger-Bode (Messenger of Evil), by whom he had three children of portentous

character, who were doomed to destroy the whole host of deities,

when the ship Naglefara should be completed from the nails of dead

men. The first-born was a gigactic wolf, called Fenris, who was

destined to devour the supreme god Odin, and swallow the Sun.

This monster was bound by the gods to a rock in indissoluble chains

until the much-dreaded twilight of the gods shall arrive, and all nature

be consumed in a general conflagration. The next offspring of these

two evil beings was an enormous serpent, called Midgard, who was the destined destroyer of the god Thor. He was precipitated by Odin

to the bottom of the sea, where he attained so vast a bulk, that he

was able to coil himself round the globe, and repose with his tail in

his mouth. The third dreadful issue of Loke and Anger-Bode, was Hela, or Death, who was cast into hell by the gods, there to await

the appointed time of destruction, and to receive into her dismal

abode all such as died of sickness or of old age.

34 It appears that Balder, who was esteemed invulnerable, had placed

himself in sport as a mark in the general assembly, at which the gods

respectively exercised their skill and dexterity, in casting darts and

missiles ;

for Odin and Friga had previously exacted an

oath of safety,

in favour of this god, from everything in nature, except the misletoe,

which was omitted 011 account of its weak and contemptible qualities.

(Edda. Fab. 28.) Loke, always bent on mischief, discovered the

exception ; and, privately procuring a sprig of this herb, placed it in

the hands of Hoder, who was bereft of sight, and persuaded him to

cast it at the devoted victim, who fell, pierced through with mortal

wounds. His body was then placed in a ship or boat, and set afloat

on the waters, while all the gods mourned for his decease. The fable

of Balder and Loke, with the lamentations of the gods for the death of

Balder, bears such an obvious relation to those of Osiris and Typhon,

Bacchus and the Titans, Cama, Iswara, &c., &c., that I entertain no

doubt but it constituted the legend of initiation ; as it is, indeed, the

exact counterpart of all other systems of mysterious celebration. It

is true, the legend of Odin and Freya, including the wanderings of the

latter, as related in the Edda of Snorro, bears some resemblance to the

wanderings of Ceres, and Isis, and Rhea ; but I think the preceding

fable unquestionably contains the identical incidents which were per-

petuated in the Gothic mysteries.
35 The Pastos was a representation of the Ark of Noah. "And God

said unto Noah. . . . make thee an ark of Gopher wood. . . . the door of

the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof. ... In the self same day

entered Noah

into the ark

and the Lord shut him in." Gen. (

vi., 13, 14, 16; vii., 13, 16.) The account in the text, in connection

with the Rainbow, evidently relates to the Deluge.

INTO THE GOTHIC MYSTERIES.

175

and guarded by Heimdal, the light-eared door-keeper

of

the gods,

armed

with

a naked sword 36 j

and when the

term of his penance was completed, he was instructed to

search for the body of Balder,37 and to use his utmost

endeavours to raise him from death to life. Being,

therefore, prepared for this dangerous expedition, he was

solemnly recommended to the protection of the gods.
He then descended through nine subterranean passages,

dark, damp, and dismal, attended by the usual guide.

Under a full persuasion that his mysterious conductor

possessed the pow.er of raising the dead and commanding

the elements, every sight presented before his eyes, every

sound which assailed his ears, in his progress through the

regenerating medium, was invested with the awe and

terror attached to a supernatural occurrence. If the

glare of burning torches gleamed through a fissure of the

rock and imparted a temporary illumination to the dark

cavern through which he passed, it presented to his

inventive imagination the god descending in a sheet of

flame. If a sound resembling distant and continued

thunder was heard to reverberate through the hollow passages, it was referred to the dreadful " twilight of the

38
gods,"

when

all

nature

shall

be involved

in

universal

36 This place of penance was termed the Celestial Fort, said to be

situated at the foot of the bridge Bifrost (Edda. Fab. 7), or the

Rainbow, which reached from earth to heaven, and which celestials

only could ascend. The sentinel was possessed of a trumpet of so

loud a blast, that the sound might be heard through all the worlds.

(Edda. Fab.' 15.)

37 Edda. Fab. 29.

38 The twilight of the gods is thus described in the Edda (Fab. 32).

"In the first place, will come the grand, 'the desolating' winter;

during which

the

snow will

fall

from

the four corners

of the world ;

the frost will be very severe ; the tempest violent and dangerous ; and

the sun will withdraw his beams. Three such winters shall pass

away, without being softened by one summer. Three others shall

follow, during which war and discord will spread through the whole

globe. Brothers, out of hatred, shall kill each other; no one shall
spare either his parent, or his child, or his relations. See how it is

described in the Voluspa: 'Brothers becoming murderers, shall stain

themselves

with brothers'

blood ;

kindred

shall forget the ties of

consanguinity ;

life shall

become a burden ;

adultery shall reign

A throughout the world.

barbarous age ! an age of swords ! an age of

tempests ! an age of wolves ! The bucklers shall be broken iu pieces ;

and these calamities shall succeed each other till the world shall fall

to ruin.' Then will happen such things as may well be called prodigies. The wolf Fenris will devour the sun : a severe loss will it be found to

mankind. Another monster will carry off the moon, and render her

176

HISTORY OF INITIATION

ruin. Arriving, at length, on the banks of a sluggish stream, he was directed to plunge into the waters of
purification and explore the caverns situate on the opposite bank. Soon his progress was intercepted by the

totally useless ;

the

stars

shall fly away

and vanish from

the heavens ;

the earth and the mountains shall be seen violently agitated; the

trees

torn

up

from

the

earth

by

the

roots ;

the tottering hills to tum-

ble headlong from their

foundations ;

all

the

chains and irons of

the

prisoners to be broken and dashed in pieces. Then is the wolf Fenris

let loose ;

the sea rushes impetuously over the earth, because

the great

Serpent, changed into a spectre, gains the shore. The Naglefara is set

afloat;

this vessel is constructed of the nails of dead men ;

for which

reason great care should be taken not to die with unpared nails ; for

he who dies so supplies materials towards the building of that vessel, which gods and men will wish were finished as late as possible. The

Giant Rymer is the pilot of this vessel, which the sea breaking over

its banks, wafts along with it. The wolf Fenris, advancing, opens his

enormous

mouth ;

his

lower jaw reaches

to the earth,

and his

upper

jaw to the heavens, and would reach still farther, were space itself

found to admit of it. The burning fire flashes out from his eyes and

nostrils. The great Serpent vomits forth floods of poison, which

overwhelm the air and the waters. This terrible monster places

himself by the side of the wolf. In this confusion the heavens shall

cleave asunder ;

and by this breach the

Genii

of

Fire enter on horse-

back. Surtur is at their head; before and behind him sparkles a

bright, glowing fire. His sword outshines the sun itself. The army

of these Genii, passing on horseback over the bridge of heaven, break

it in pieces : thence they direct their course to a plain, where they

are joined by the wolf Fenris and the great Serpent. Thither also

repair Loke and the Giant Rymer, and with them all the Giants of the Frost, who follow Loke even to death. The Genii of Fire march

first in battle array, forming a most brilliant squadron on this plain,

which is an hundred degrees square on every side. During these

prodigies, Heimdal, the door-keeper of the gods, rises up ; he violently
sounds his clanging trumpet to awaken the gods, who instantly assem-

ble. Then Odin repairs to the fountain of Mimis, to consult what he

ought to do, he and his army. The great Ash Tree Ydrasil is shaken ;

nor is anything in heaven or earth exempt from fear and danger. The

gods are clad in armour; Odin puts on his golden helmet, and his

resplendent cuirass ; he grasps his sword, and marches directly against
the wolf Fenris. He hath Thor at his side; but this god cannot

assist him, for he himself fights with the Great Serpent. Frey

encounters Surtur, and terrible blows are exchanged on both sides,

till

Frey is

beat down ;

he

owes

his

defeat

to

his

having

formerly

given his sword. to his attendant Skyrner. That day also is let loose

the dog, named Garmer. who hath hitherto been chained at the

entrance of a cavern. He is a monster dreadful even to the gods; he

attacks Tyr. and they kill each other. Thor beats down the Great

Serpent to the earth, but at the same time recoiling back nine steps, he falls dead upon the spot, suffocated with floods of venom, which

the serpent vomits forth upon him. Odin is devoured by the wolf

Fenris. At the same instant, Vidar advances, and, pressing down the

INTO THE GOTHIC MYSTERIES.

177

sacred door of expurgation ; on passing which, he entered into the illuminated sacellum, and found Balder enthroned

in a situation of the highest distinction.

%

At his entrance into this enchanting place, the aspirant

was saluted with an anthem of congratulation ; arid the

utmost cheerfulness was displayed in the rejoicings which

now took place for the resuscitation of the benevolent

god.

The

59
Scalds,

to

the

flute

and

harp,

chanted

hymns

descriptive of the generation of gods, the Creation of the
world, the Deluge, and the restoration of man. They

celebrated in strains of highest panegyric the warlike acts of heroes; the praise of wise and valiant chiefs; the
fatal overthrow of hosts and hostile armies. They sang the irresistible valour of Odin, and dwelt on the immortal

renown which his high achievements had secured, with

a view of exciting in the candidate a spirit of emulation

A to great and warlike deeds.

solemn oath40 was then

administered on a naked, sword, which was used for this

purpose, because it was considered as a symbol of the

41
supreme god.

The aspirant entered into voluntary

monster's lower jaw with his foot, seizes the other with his hand, and

thus tears and rends him till he dies. Loke and Heimdal fight, and

mutually kill each other. After that, Surtur darts fire and flame over

all

the

earth ;

the whole world is

presently consumed."

The descrip-

tion of this event, in the Voluspa, concludes with the following very

remarkable passage :

" The sun

is

darkened ;

the

earth is immerged

in the sea ;

the shining stars fall from heaven j

a fiery vapour ascends ;

a vehement heat prevails, even in heaven itself." (Goranson, Hist.

26, apud Mallet.) 39 " The historical monuments of the north are full of the honours

paid to the Scalds both by princes and people ; nor can the annals of poetry produce any age or country which reflects more glory or lustre upon it. They were men especially honoured and caressed at the

courts of those princes who distinguished themselves by their great

actions, or passion for glory. Harold Harfager, for instance, placed

them at his feasts above all other officers of his court. Many princes

intrusted them, both in peace and war, with commissions of the utmost

importance. They never set out on any considerable expedition with-

out some of them in their train. Hacon, Earl of Norway, had five

celebrated poets along with him in that famous battle when the war-

riors of Jomsburg were defeated ; and history records that they sung

each an ode to animate the soldiers before they engaged. Olave, King

of Norway, placing three of them one day around him in battle, cried

out with spirit, ' You shall what you are eye-witnesses

not relate what you have only heard, of yourselves.' " (Mai. North. Ant.,

but
vol,

i., pp. 386, 389.) 40 Mai. North. Ant., vol. i., p. 217. 41 Justin (Hist, 1. xliii., c. 3) says, that the ancient Scythians wor-
13

178

HISTORY OF INITIATION, ETC.

obligations to pay due submission to the chief officers of the state, whether civil or religious ; to practise devotion to the gods ; and to defend and protect his initiated companions, at the hazard of his life, from all secret and
open attacks of their enemies; and, if slain, to avenge
their death. The oath was sealed by drinking mead out of a human skull.42

shipped swords and spears a practice common with all who practised

the Buddhic superstition.

42 The word skull
probably, " received

was
this

commonly used for a drinking vessel, which, name from the barbarous custom which pre-

vailed among several ancient nations, of drinking out of the skulls of

their enemies. Warnefrid, in his work, de gestis Longobard, says,
Albin slew Cunimund, and having carried away his head, converted it

into a drinking vessel ; which kind of cup is with us called schala, but in the Latin language it has the name of patera." ( Jamieson,

Scot. Diet., v. Skul.

179

LECTURE XI.

DOCTRINES AND MORALITY.

THE splendour and importance of the mysteries gave
them such a vast and overwhelming influence, even with

the principal nobility of every ancient nation, that the

high-born youth displayed the utmost anxiety to endure the fatigue and danger of initiation, that they might be

assimilated with that distinguished society, into which

no other formula could introduce them. For this purpose every peril was braved, and every risk cheerfully

encountered; and loss of life in the process was preferred

to the dishonour of remaining voluntarily amongst the

uninitiated and profane. Nothing but this unconquer-
able principle could have induced men to press forward
through such a series of opposing difficulties as we have

just enumerated.
The candidate was now invested with a sword, a shield,

and a lance, and declared equal to the toil of combat,
hunting, and providing for his own subsistence, from

which latter duty his parents were henceforth wholly
relieved, although he had now only attained his fifteenth

A year. His shield was white, and termed "the shield ol

expectation."

specified period was assigned for his

probation in arms, and if he failed to distinguish himself

in battle before the expiration of this term, the phrase

Niding was applied to him, and he was shunned by all his former associates.1 This, however, did not often

happen ; and when he had performed any distinguished

achievement, he was permitted to have a design painted

on his shield, as a testimony of his prowess. This privi-

lege, however, led, in process of time, to innovations in the device and fashion of the shield which endangered

1 The word Niding, amongst the Scandinavians, was esteemed so contemptuous that it would provoke even a coward to single combat. It was equal to giving the lie in our own country; and has now
merged into the phrase You are a good-for-nothing fellow. (Vid.

Mallet,

vol.

i. }

p.

218.)

180

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

the distinction between lord and vassal ;

and, at

length,

a code of directions became necessary to regulate the

practice ; and the distinction of a painted shield was

limited to the families of princes and heroes.2

The sacred sign of the Cross was then impressed upon

him ;

and,

as

a

concluding

ceremony, a Ring was deliv-

ered to him as a symbol of the divine protection, which

he was enjoined to preserve as an invaluable amulet, the

gift

of

Balder

the

3
good.

This ring, he was told, was

not only capable of affording him protection in times of

imminent

danger

and

4
adversity,

but

it

was

also

to

be

con-

sidered as an inexhaustible fund, whence riches, honours,

and all other benefits would undoubtedly flow. The whole system of creation and providence, as far as
it was understood by this people, was now unfolded to

the aspirant's view; he was taught mysterious doctrines

wrapped up in hieroglyphical symbols ; the art of magic,

and the important secret of preparing amulets and incan-

tations. And, as a final charge, he was solemnly enjoined to make himself perfect in athletic exercises f and was

assured that the sole method of being translated to the

2 This may, probably, have been the origin of patrimonial badges and

armorial bearings with the northern nations of Europe, although it is

well

known

that

the

Gauls

and

Germans had armorial .

distinctions

long before, Diodorus says (1. v.). the Gauls used long shields,

distinguished

by

particular

marks ;

and

Tacitus

(de mor. Germ., s.

6) tells us, that the Germans distinguished their shields by different

colours.

'" Diodorus Siculus adduces a corresponding custom in Egypt ; and among the Greeks we observe that the shield of Agamemnon bore a

lion's head ;

that of Alcibiades, a serpent ;

that of Cadmus,

a dragon ;

and that of Ulysses, a dolphin." (Wait's Antiq., vol. i., p. 149.)

More anciently, the distinguishing symbols were placed upon the

helmet. Thus, the crest of Osiris was a hawk ; of Horus, a lion ; &c.

3 It is said in the Runic mythology, that when Hermod descended

into hell to search for Balder, he found the murdered deity occupying

a distinguished situation in the palace of Death; and failing, through

the artifices of Loke, to procure his return to Valhall, the supernal

palace of the gods, he bore a ring to Odin, as a token of remembrance,

from his deceased friend, which possessed the miraculous power of

producing, every ninth night, eight rings of equal weight and utility.

4 Plin. Nat. Hist., 1. xxxiii., c. 1.

5 These were, "to

fight valiantly;

to

sit

firmly on

horseback ;

to

inure himself to swimming and skating; to dart the lance, and to

become skilful at the oar." (Ode of Harold the Valiant, in Mai.

North. Ant., vol. ii., p. 237.)

DOCTRINES AND MORALITY.

181

hall of Odin, was to die in battle, covered with wounds,
valiantly fighting against the enemies of his country.
The most prominent symbols in these celebrations were, the Cross and Ring already mentioned;7 the Ash tree, the Point within a Circle, the Rainbow,8 and a Cube the emblem of Odin.9

6 When Odin perceived that his end drew nigh, " he would not wait
till the consequences of a lingering disease should put a period to that life which he had so often bravely hazarded in the field ; but, assembling the friends and companions of his fortune, he gave himself nine
wounds in the form of a circle with the point of a lance, and many other cuts in his skin with his sword. As he was dying, he declared
he was going back into Scythia to take his seat among the other gods at an eternal banquet, where he would receive with great honours all who should expose themselves intrepidly in battle, and die bravely with their swords in their hands. As soon as he had breathed his

last, they carried his body to Sigtuna (the ancient capital of Sweden),

where, conformably to a custom introduced by himself into the north,

his body was burned with much pomp and magnificence." (Mai.

North. Ant., vol. i., p. 6.) Hence in battle the Scandinavians were

inspired with the most furious bravery and contempt of death, under

the impression that all who died bravely in the field would certainly

be received by Odin into his paradise, designated by the endearing

appellation of Valhalla, and be rewarded with an honourable seat in

his presence ; there to enjoy a continual feast of warriors, served up

by the Valkyriae, who were virgins of the most exquisite beauty;

serenaded with martial music, and drinking hydromel or mead out of

the skulls of vanquished enemies, until the destruction and final reno-

vation of the earth and heavens. The Edda (Fab. 20) thus describes

these envied joys, which incited the barbarians of Northern Europe to

court death in every violent shape ; and inspired an undefined horror
at the prospect of a death proceeding from disease or old age. " The

heroes who are received into the palace of Odin, have every day the

pleasure of arming themselves, of passing in review, of ranging them-

selves in order of battle, and of cutting one another in pieces ; but as

soon as the hour of repast approaches, they return on horseback, all

safe and sound, back to the Hall of Odin, and fall to eating and drink-

ing

Their beverage is beer and mead ; their cups are the skulls

A of enemies they have slain.

crowd of virgins wait upon the

heroes at table, and fill their cups as fast as they empty them."

(Mai. North. Ant., vol. i., p. 120.) Hence Ragnor Lodbrok, in his

death song, consoles himself with this reflection, "I shall soon drink

beer from hollow cups made of skulls."

(St.

25

Worm.

Liter.

Dan. }

p. 203. Jamieson, Scot. Diet., v. Skul. Mai. North. Ant, vol. ii.,

p. 232.)

7 Vid. ut supra, p. 265.

8 Signs and Symbols, Lect. 8, 9. " The Ash tree Udrasil," says the

Edda, (Fab. 20,)

" is

the greatest of

trees ;

Skidbladner,

of vessels ;

Odin,

of gods ;

Slcipner,

of

horses ;

JBifrost,

of bridges ;

Brage, of

scalds or poets; Habroc, of hawks ; and Garmer, of hounds."

9 Fab. Mys. Cab., vol. i., p. 308.

182

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

We now

come

to

the

system

of

10
Magic

inculcated

by

the Scandinavians. The Scalds and Diviners established

a great reputation, and consequent influence over the
people, by the boasted power of composing charms, or amulets, which possessed the quality of conferring favour and protection on friends, and of hurling destruction on their enemies.11 This superstition was derived from
Odin, who acquired the reputation of being a skilful magician, and was styled, by way of eminence, the father
of magic, from his introduction of the mysteries with
all their terrific machinery amongst this ignorant and
superstitious people. This potent individual boasted a very high degree of mystical knowledge, which he imparted to but few, even of his most intimate companions ;
for it was a maxim with him, that " whatever is known

only to one's self, is always of the greatest value." 12 He

proclaimed himself capable of rendering the arms of his

enemies powerless ; to burst, by the repetition of a single

rhyme, the strongest chains of captivity ; to inspire his

foes with the utmost veneration for his person ; to strike

his

adversary

dead

with

a

curse ;

to

pass

through

the

world with the rapidity of thought ; to assume at plea-

sure,

the

forms

of wild

and

ferocious

beasts ;

to

calm

tempests, disconcert magicians, and even to raise the
dead. 13

10 Magic in general," says "Wait, in his Oriental Antiquities, (p. 135,) " may be conceived to have arisen from the mysteries of Persia or Chaldea, and from the various illusions to which the Epopts were

submitted."

11 -A belief in the efficacy of these incantations, produced much real

and imaginary evil amongst the inhabitants of Scandinavia.

<:
Helga,

a Scandinavian sorceress, when wishing to give efficacy to some Eunic

character for doing injury to others, observed this mode. Taking a

knife in her hand, she cut the letters in the wood, and besmeared

them with her blood. Then singing her incantations, oc gech aufug

rangsaelis urn treit, she went backwards and contrary to the course

of the sun around the tree. Then she procured that it should be cast

into the sea, praying that it might be driven by the waves to the island Drangsa, and there be the cause of all evils to Gretter." (Hist.

Gretter, apud Berthol. Caus. Contempt. Mortes, p. 661. Jamieson,

Scot. Die., v. Widdersinnis.) 12 Ancient Runic Poem.

13 These are the enchantments which the Scriptures pronounce as
ever attendant on the practice of a false worship. Thus the sorcerers of Egypt, when contending against Moses, are said to use enchant-

ments,

(Exod.

vii. 5

11)

which

were

prohibited to

the Israelites.

(Levit.

DOCTRINES AND MORLAITY.

183

These pretensions, sanctioned by the timidity which

superstition never fails to produce in an untaught mind, would naturally invest this politic prince with an authority which his successors would be desirous to retain.
Hence they pronounced that the supernatural powers

which

Odin

was

believed

to

14
possess,

were

vested

in the

three orders of men, the Drottes, the Scalds, and the

Diviners, to whose custody the mysteries had been en-

trusted. In succeeding ages these boasted powers were

publicly converted to the purpose of emolument; and

charms, amulets, and philtres were openly exposed for
sale. And as they were reputed to be effectual antidotes

against the effects of poison, to cure diseases, to inspire

15
affection,

and

to

enable

the

possessor

to

work

miracles ;

every individual was anxious to be furnished with a

charm which promised to counteract the secret machi-

nations of his enemies, in a country where private disputes

usually terminated in

bloodshed ;

and

hence the

compo-

sers of such invaluable jewels rose in the public estima-

tion, and became finally invested with uncontrollable

authority. These amulets consisted chiefly of Runic

characters

or

16
letters,

inscribed on a tablet made of

the

xix., 26.) And the punishment of them is announced by Isaiah:
"Behold they shall be as stubble, the fire shall burn them, and they
.shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame." (Isai.
xlvii.. 14.)
14 " Hence oracles, auguries, divinations, and a thousand practices of
that kind quickly sprang up in crowds from this erroneous principle. Accordingly, in all our ancient fables and chronicles, we see the northern nations extremely attached to this vain science. They had oracles, like the people of Italy and Greece, and these oracles were not less revered, nor less famous than theirs. Their diviners were honoured with the name of prophets, and revered as if they had been such.
Some of them were said to have familiar spirits who never left them, and whom they consulted under the form of little idols. Others
dragged the ghosts of the departed from their tombs, and forced the dead to tell them what would happen." (Mai. North. Ant., vol. 1, p. 143.
146.) 15 Turn. Ang. Sax., vol. iv., p. 186.
16 Letters were first introduced into Scandinavia by Odin, and from the ignorance of the people respecting their nature and effects, he taught them to believe that by their use he was empowered to work miracles. Hence he was called Run-Hofdi, and Runom-Fauthr, King of Spells and Father of Letters. Thus originated the custom of vaticination and fortune-telling ; which is not yet fully exploded, and scarcely will be while superstition maintains its empire over the human

184

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

wood or bark of the

birch tree, in magical

form ;

either

in a circle described from east to west by the south ; in

a triangle ; in a direct line from the top to the bottom ;

or by a retrograde movement from the bottom to the

top ;

from

left

to right,

or

from

right

to

17
left,

according

to the circumstances of

each

peculiar

case ;

every form

being adapted to its own particular service. They were

frequently carved on

walking

18
sticks,

sword

scabbards,

implements of husbandry, and other articles of common

use. Those which were intended to bring woe and de-

struction on their enemies were termed Noxious; those

which were used to avert calamity, to prevent ship-

wreck, to obtain the affections of a beloved female, to

counteract the treachery of an enemy, &c., were called Favourable; and those which were invested with the

mind. Traces of this practice are still visible in most of the countries of Europe ; and even our own land, though enlightened by the perfec-
tion of science, exhibits in every province, many evidences of the pre-
valence of superstition, in the implicit reliance placed by our rustic population in amulets, charms, and incantations.
17 Mai. North. Ant., vol. i., p. 146. 18 Verstegan tells us, that the people " used to engrave upon certain square sticks about a foot in length, or shorter or longer as they pleased, the courses of the moones of the whole yeare, whereby they
could alwayes certainly tel when the new moones, ful moones, and changes should happen, as also their festival dayes j and such a carved
stick they called an Al-mon-aght, that is to say, Al-moon-heed, to wit, the regard or observation of all the moones ; and here hence is deryved
the name of Almanack." (Rest. Dec. Int., p. 58.) 19 In our own country this practice was very prevalent a century or
two ago. ' : King James, in his Dsemonology, (b. ii., c. 5,) tells us that the devil teacheth how to make pictures of wax or clay, that by roasting thereof, the persons that they bear the name of may be continually melted, or dried away by continual sickness. Blagrave, in his astrological practice of Physic, (p. 89) observes, that the way which the witches usually take for to afflict man or beast in this kind is, as I conceive, done by image or model, made in the likeness of that man or beast they intend to work mischief upon ; and by the subtility of the devil, made at such hours and times when it shall work most powerfully upon them by thorn, pin, or needle, pricked into that limb or member of the body afflicted."
" Witches Tvhich some murther do intend Doe make a picture and doe shoote at it ; And in that part where they the picture hit, The parties self doth languish to his end." Constable's Diaria. Decad. II., Son. 2, 1594.
(Yid. Brand's Popul. Ant., vol. ii., p. 376.)

DOCTRINES AND MORALITY.

185

property of curing diseaces, were termed Medicinal.

The

most

trifling

error

in

the

21
composition

of

these

won-

der-working amulets, was said to be fatal to the artist

himself, or to endanger the life of his dearest friend ; and hence none dared to attempt the formation of a charm

but he who, by initiation, had become perfectly instructed in the various ceremonies, which were indispensably
attached to every particular service.
The doctrines inculcated in these mysteries embraced

disquisitions on the nature of the gods, the creation of

the world, the Deluge, and the present and future condition of man. The early inhabitants of Scandinavia
believed in a god, who was "the author of every thing

that existeth; the eternal, the ancient, the living and

awful being, the searcher into concealed things, the

being

that

never

22
changeth."

The name given to this

20 "All these various kinds differed only in the ceremonies observed

in writing them, in the material on which they were written, in the

place where they were exposed, in the manner in which the lines were

drawn, whether in the form of a circle, of a serpent, or a triangle, &c.

In the strict observance of these childish particulars consisted that

obscure and ridiculous art, which required, to so many weak and

wicked persons, the respectable name of priests and prophetesses,

merely for filling rude minds with jealousy, fear and hatred." (Mai.

North. Ant., vol. i., p. 316.)
21 The superstition of the " Hand of Glory" is still firmly believed in some parts of Germany. Its composition was as follows : " Take

the hand of a person hanged and exposed on the highway ; wrap it up

in a piece of a shroud or winding sheet, in which let it be well squeezed

to get out any small quantity of blood that may have remained in it;

then put it into an earthen vessel with zimat, saltpetre, salt, and long

pepper,

the

whole

well powdered ;

leave

it fifteen days in

that vessel j

afterwards take it. out, and expose it to the noontide sun in the dog

days, till it is thoroughly dry, and if the sun is not sufficient, put it into an oven, heated with fern and vervain. Then compose a kind of
candle wifh the fat of the hanged man, virgin wax and sesame of Lap-

land. The Hand of Glory is used as a candlestick to hold this candle

when lighted. Its properties are, that wheresoever any one goes with this dreadful instrument, the person to whom it is presented will be

deprived of all power of motion. Hence it was used by housebreakers to enter houses at night without fear of opposition. But there was a counter charm which would deprive the Hand of Glory of its effects.

The threshold of the door of the house and other places where the

thieves might enter, was to be anointed with an unguent composed of

the gall of a black cat, the fat of a white hen, and the blood of a

screech owl, which mixture must necessarily be prepared in the dog

days." (Grose. Provincial Glossary, and Popular Superstitions.)

22 Edda. Fab. 12.

186

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

most

high

god,

was

23
Odin,

who

was

also

believed to

send plagues into the world when provoked by the

wickedness

of

its

inhabitants ;

and

his anger could only

be appeased by human sacrifices, prayer and repent-

ance.24 Idols and visible representations of the deity

were originally forbidden, and he was directed to be

worshipped in the lonely solitude of sequestered forests,

where he was said to dwell, invisible and in perfect silence.25 But after the irruption of Sigge and his fol-

lowers, other objects of adoration were introduced;26 to

each

of

which

was

assigned

a

particular

dominion ;

and,

hence, every object of the creation soon became placed

under the care of its presiding divinity. The trees, the

houses, fire, water, sun, stars, and even thunder and

lightning, wind and rain, had each its protecting deity ;

23 " Odin is believed to have been the name of the one true God

among the first colonies who came from the East and peopled Ger-

many and Scandinavia, and among their posterity for several ages.

But, at length, a mighty conqueror, the leader of a new army of ad-

venturers from the East, overran the north of Europe, erected a great

empire, assumed the name of ODIN, and claimed the honours which had been formerly paid to that deity. From thenceforward this dei-

fied mortal became the chief object of the idolatrous worship of the

Saxons and Danes in this island, as well as of many other nations.

Having been a mighty and successful warrior, he was believed to be

the god of war, who gave victory, and revived courage in the conflict.

Having civilized, in some measure, the countries which he conquered,

and introduced arts formerly unknown, he was also worshipped as

the god of arts and artists. In a word, to this Odin, his deluded

worshippers impiously ascribed all the attributes which belong only

to the true God : to him they built magnificent temples, offered many

sacrifices, and consecrated the fourth day of the week, which is still

called by his name, in England, and in all the other countries where

he was formerly worshipped." (Henry's Hist, of Eng., vol. ii.)

24 Mallet vol. i., c. 7.

25 Tacit, de mor. Germ., 1. ix., c. 35. There is a peculiar degree of

A solemnity in a primitive grove.

writer on the scenery of America,

thus expresses himself respecting one of the vast woods of that conti-

nent: "When tlie air is calm, scarcely a sound of anything is to be

heard; for the few birds that flit athwart the gloom are dumb. It is

impossible

for

any one

to

enter

such

solitudes

without

dread ;

nor

can the traveller contemplate his condition without anxiety and fear.

The comparison of a gothic cathedral to the grove, is old and trite ;

but the associations which the vast forest aisles and embowered

arches awaken, make the sense of a present divinity far more power-
fully felt, than in the greatest cathedrals with all their gorgeous talismans of devotion."

26 Verst. Rest., p. 69.

DOCTRINES AND MORALITY.

187

who were thus, united or individually, enabled to visit
the good with benefits, and to punish the wicked with destruction. These inferior deities considered at first

only as Mediators, were, at length, invested with supreme

authority; and as courage, strength, and superior valour

were the chief traits of excellence in this rude people;

the first cause soon became compounded with the god of

war, and was hence esteemed a sanguinary being; terri-

ble

to

his

enemies ;

clad

in vengeance as in a garment ;

and delighting in desolation and carnage, slaughter and

blood.27

The splendid temple on the river Sala, the present

site of Upsal, which is said to be of great antiquity,

dating its existence from the time of Ninus,28 was deco-

rated with a profusion of costly ornaments, plates and

chains

of burnished

29
gold,

and

contained

a

representa-

tion of the Scandinavian triad Odin Thor Frea.80

These deities were placed beside each other in a line.
On the right stood Odin, a gigantic figure bearing his
emblematical characteristic, the Sword. In the centre

stood Thor, his first born son, and the reputed mediator
between God and man, of an equal stature, and bearing

27 Mallet. North. Ant., vol. i., p. 86.

28 Olaus Magnus, c. vi., p. 104.

29 The astonishing riches exhibited in some of these heathen temples exceeds our comprehension. " In the great temple of Belus built

by Semiramis, we find three prodigious statues of beaten gold, repre-

senting Jupiter the father of all, Juno the queen of heaven, and llhea

the universal mother. The statue of Jupiter appeared erect, and in a

walking attitude ; it was forty feet in height, and weighed a thousand

Babylonian talents. The statue of llhea also weighed the same num-

ber of talents, but was sculptured sitting on a throne of massy gold,

with two lions standing before her, as guardians of the statue, accom-

panied with two huge serpents in silver, that weighed each thirty

talents. The statue of Juno was in an erect posture, and weighed

eight hundred talents ; her right hand grasped a serpent by the head,

and her left a golden sceptre incrusted with gems. Before these three

colossal figures stood an altar of beaten gold, forty feet in length,
fifteen in breadth, and of the weight of five hundred talents. On this

altar stood two vast flagons weighing each thirty talents ; two censers

for incense, probably kept continually burning, each weighing five

hundred talents ;

and

finally three

vessels

for

the consecrated wine,

of which the largest, that assigned to Jupiter, weighed three hundred

talents, and those to Juno and Rhea six hundred talents." (Diod.

Sic., 1. ii., p. 98, apud Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. vii., p. 459.)

30 Mallet, vol. i., p. 96.

1S8

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

the symbolical crown, sceptre, and mace,31 showing his

unlimited dominion over the earth and elements ;

and to

depict his astronomical character, twelve stars were
arranged in a circle round his head.32 And on the left

was

placed

Frea, 33

represented

as

an

34
hermaphrodite,

and adorned with a variety of symbolical decorations

pointing out her dominion over marriage, conception,

and

35
parturition.

The legends of the creation and the Deluge were

rather fanciful, but not more so than those of some other

idolatrous nations. Chaos was described as a vast abyss,

which being gradually tilled up by the formation of suc-
cessive strata of congealed vapours, the giant Ymer or

36
Aurgelmer

was

formed

of icy exhalations

melted

by a

genial south wind. The copious perspiration which

issued from this monster, produced a corrupt race of

giants called the Hrimthussi; who, at length, rising in

rebellion against their progenitor, he was slain by the
f sons of Bore Odin, Vile, and Ve, who proceeded from

31 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 782. 33 Verst. Rest. Dec. Intel., p. 74. 33 Friga, the Scandinavian Venus, was sometimes confounded with the moon, because they were equally thought to possess an influence
over the increase of the human species ; and hence the time of the full moon was considered a most favourable period for marriages.
34 Cudw. Intel. Syst., 1. i., c. 4.
35 Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. v., p. 781. These emblems bore a reference
commensurate with the eastern phallus and linga, but did not lead to the same scandalous excesses. So chaste were this otherwise barbar-

ous people, that their continence and absolute deference to the weaker

sex, gained the applause of all polished nations. Even Tacitus could

say, that amongst this people the females were safe from personal

insult j

and

the

sanctity of the

matrimonial

bond

was

so devotedly

venerated, as to merit the most unqualified applause. (Tacit. Germ., c. 18.) And Salvian says, that these barbarians were worthy of admi-

ration

on

account

of their

continence ;

and

that

they were literally

the reformers of the Roman manners! (Salv. de gub. del., 1. vii.)

36 The

giant

Ymer

was

the

same with Typhon

or the

ocean ;

and

the drying up of the waters of the Deluge is expressed under the figure of the destruction of the monster. Mr. Faber thinks it " not

improbable that the gothic name Ymer or Umer is the same as the

Persic name Cai-Umersh; an appellation which is applied to Adam."

(Pag. Idol., vol. i., p. 217, in nota 2.)
37 Or Bo, who, himself, or probably some successor of Sigge who assumed his name, was represented as a valorous chieftain, and his name was held in such dread for many centuries after his death as to

DOCTRINES AND MORALITY.

189

the cow Andumbla,38 a creature formed from the particles of dissolved ice. The torrents of blood issuing from his
wounds, caused an inundation which overflowed the

whole earth, and destroyed all the giants of the frost

(i.

e.,

the

human race),

except

Bore

or

39
Bergelmer

and

his

family, who succeeded in keeping a boat afloat on the

surface. The sons of Bore now formed the earth out of

the body of Ymer which they dragged front the abyss of Ginnungagap for this especial purpose. The land was
formed from his flesh, the water from his blood, the

mountains were composed of his bones, the rocks of his teeth, and the arch of heaven of his scull, supported at
four equi-distant points by as many dwarfs, whose names
were East, West, North, and South, and teeming with clouds formed from his dispersed brains. They after-
wards created a man and woman of two logs of wood,
the former of ash, the latter of elm^ and called them

Askus and Embla.40

It was taught in these mysterious institutions, that when the multiplied iniquities of men should overwhelm the earth with deeds of violence ; when the parent should
arm his hand against his children, and the child against his parent; when murder, treason, and ingratitude should

be used by soldiers on the approach of an enemy, as a war-cry to inspire their opponents with a panic fear. The Irish continued the practice of this custom till the reign of our Henry VII., when it was prohibited by authority. It is still used by the English rustic as an epithet of terror. Bore was the same mythological personage as the hellenic Boreas, the north wind ; and meant, undoubtedly, the patriarch Noah, as his three sons Odin, Vile, and Ve, may be identical with Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
38 This cow was the ark, from which the triple offspring of the

patriarch proceeded.

39 Thus was a tradition of the Deluge, as well as of the antediluvian

patriarchs preserved in Scandinavia. From they, proceeded Thrudgelmer (Lamech),

Aurgelmer (Adam), say
from whom Bergelmer

(Noah) sprang, while the earth was deluged ly the ocean. This is

preserved in the Edda of Saemund.

" When wintry storms o'erspread the sky,
Ere yet from ocean rose the earth, Great Bergelmer had his birth. Thrudgelmer was his father's name,
He from great Aurgelmer came."
Song of Vafthrudnis.

Cottle's Version.

40 Edda. Fab. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Hence the Ash was sacred to Odin, the Birch to Thor, and the Elm to Frea.

190

HISTORY OF INITIATION.

stain the earth with blood ; when a series of unmixed

wickedness

and

vice

should

supersede

piety

and

virtue

41 ;

then the present system shall fall into annihilation, and
all the gods as well as men shall perish in the general

ruin ; while the mysterious ship Naglefara floats amidst

torrents of mixed fire and water, and defies the desolating

tempest under the direction of its mighty pilot. After
which a new world shall arise like a phoenix from the

ashes of its parent, splendid as the meridian sun, adorned with stately palaces all glittering with gold and precious stones, where the brave and virtuous shall enjoy ever-

lasting happiness and delight ; while in the inhospitable

regions of the north, a place of punishment shall also be

formed, abounding with serpents and other noisome rep-

tiles, where the pusillanimous and wicked shall be for

ever entombed amidst pestiferous vapours ; some plunged in rivers of liquid poison distilled from the mouths of

serpents; others perpetually bitten and devoured by

ravenous wolves; and all condemned to suffer various

torments, unpitied and hopeless, amidst the accumulated

horrors of everlasting filth and nastiness.

Such were the secret doctrines taught to the aspirant

by our Saxon ancestors in the wilds of Scandinavia. And they afford an evident proof of the eastern deriva-
tion of their mysteries, although disguised by names and

41 The morality inculcated in these Mysteries has been preserved

by Saemund surnamed the Learned, in a Poem called the Havamaal,

or the Sublime Discourse of Odin. From this code I subjoin a few extracts to shew the nature of their moral instruction. " Many are

thought to be knit in the ties of sincere kindness : but when it comes

to the proof, how much are they deceived. Slander is the common

vice of the age. Even the host backbites his guest." "Whilst we

live let us live well ;

for be a man ever so rich, when he lights his

fire,

Death may, perhaps, enter his door, before it be burnt out." "There

is no malady or sickness more sevtre, than not to be content with one's lot." " The heart alone knows what passes within the heart : and that which betrays the soul, is the soul itself." " Seek not to

sed"uWcehearnoethiesrt'shewriefetowibtehftohuendalaluvriirntguocuhsarmmasnofwiHtuhnoiuct

incantations."
some failing ?

or one so wicked as to have no good quality?" "The fire drives

away diseases; the oak expels the stranguary ; straw dissolve en-

chantments." Hence, probably, is derived the custom of laying two

straws crosswise in the path where a witch is expected to come. " Runic characters destroy the effect of imprecations ; the earth

swallows

up

inundations ;

and

death

extinguishes hatred and

quar-

rels." (Mai. North. Ant., vol. ii., p. 206, &c.)

DOCTRINES AND MORALITY.

191

circumstances which display the ingenuity of the hierophants; and their anxiety to frame a system which should aid, by the correspondence of its doctrines, to cement the military frame-work of society, and confirm the veneration of the people by an appeal to the prevailing taste for patriotism, and a respect for the institu-
tions of their country.

192

LECTURE XII.

CEREMONIES OF INITIATION IN AMERICA.

AMERICA was evidently peopled from the old continent,

because there were only eight persons saved at the

Deluge ; and the principal part of their posterity, during

the whole of the first century after that event, occupied

the very centre of Asia. Some say that America was

peopled by

the

1
Carthaginians

who

possessed

the

Cape

Verd Islands, which are only three weeks sail from that
continent. Their ships, having women and children on

board, might miss the intended Islands, before the inven-

tion of the compass ; and if so, they would inevitably be driven by the Trade Winds to the coast of America.

Others, judging from the similarity of some religious rites,

have conjectured that it was peopled by the Ten Tribes at the dispersion of Israel.2 Some think it received its

population from China or Japan ; others that it was colo-
nized by some wandering tribes of Japheth, who pene-

trated into the trackless regions of North America by the straits of Ani'an.3 Some have been bold enough to

assert that America was not inundated at the Deluge,

and that, consequently, the aborigines were antediluvians,

and the most ancient people on earth. Others suppose

that there were few individuals preserved on this vast

continent at the Deluge, that it might be without diffi-
culty repeopled. And we are told, " that America was

peopled after the Deluge, at the same time, as it were,

(communibus aliis) with other parts of the earth equidistant from the spot whereon the Ark is acknowledged to

have grounded. For the grand division of the Eastern and

Western hemispheres through the natural effect of causes oper-

ating from the Deluge, did not take place till about half a

century after that event ; and thus a subject that has uni-

formly puzzled the most learned historians and philoso-

phers, and given ground for the most elaborate disserta-

1 Rel. Cerem. of various Nations, p. 278.

3

Bochart.

Phaleg.,

1.

c. iii.,

1.

z Ibid.

HISTORY OF INITIATION IN AMERICA.

193

tions, namely, the manner by which America was peopled, appears to be made simple and easy, ;is ;ire all

those questions that are submitted to the ordeal of truth,

the infallible attestations of Holy Writ.4 M. Humboldt5 seems to insinuate that the " tribes of the Tartar race pass-
ed over to the north-west coast of America, and thence to

the south and east towards the banks of Gila, and those of

the Missouri." Robertson6 also supposes the Americans

to

have derived their

original

from the Asiatics ;

and

supports his conjecture by some ancient traditions

amongst the Mexicans, which ascribe their primitive

population to a horde from a remote country to the

north-west; whose gradual progress from the northern

coast, where they landed, to the interior provinces, is

distinctly traced. And, in the infancy of Christianity, Mexico is said to have been in a more advanced state of

civilization than Denmark, Sweden, and Russia.7

4 New theory of the two hemispheres. Pamphl., vol. v. Mr. Thomp-

son

deduces

his

theory from

Genesis

x.
3

25.

" Peleg

in his days was

the earth divided".

5 Research, in Amer., vol. i., p. 147.

6 Hist. Amer., b. iv.

A 7 Humboldt. Research, in Amer., vol. i., p. 83.

most interesting

evidence of the early existence of the arts in these regions, has

recently been discovered by the captain of an 'American vessel, named Kay, on the coast of Peru, in the environs of Garvay,

Province of Fruscillo, in an ancient buried city of considerable

extent. Following the course of some excavations which he made,

he found the walls of the edifices still standing, and many of them in a complete state of preservation. He infers, from the number and

extent of them, that the population of the city could not have been

less than 3000 souls. Great numbers of skeletons and mummies in a

perfect state of preservation were found among the private and

sacred edifices, and a great number of domestic utensils, articles of

furniture, coins, and curious antiquities. The earthquake, by which

it would appear the city was engulfed, appears to have surprised the

inhabitants like those of Pompeii, in the midst of their daily avoca-

tions, and many of them were singularly preserved, by the exclusion

of atmospheric air, in the precise action or employment of the moment when overwhelmed. One man, standing up as if in the act of escap-

ing, was dressed in alight robe, in the folds of which coins were found,

which have been sent to the scientific institutions of Lima for investi-

A gation.

female was also found sitting in a chair, before a loom,

which contained an unfinished piece of cotton stuff, which she was in

the act of weaving. The cotton-stuff (which is of a gaudy pattern,

but very neatly fabricated) is about eight inches in diameter, and
appears to have been only half completed. A great number of anti-

quities and curiosities found in this American Herculuneum grave have

been sent to the museum of Lima.

14

194

HISTORY OF INITIATION

From what people soever the Americans descended, or

in whatever manner that vast continent was originally

furnished with human beings ; it is certain that the first

inhabitants brought with them a system of mysteries

which

they

applied

to

the

purposes

of religious worship

8 ;

and though this system, in process of time, was almost

entirely lost amongst the scattered tribes which led an

erratic life in its deepest wilds, yet many of the truths

on which it was founded, were preserved in a deteriorated

form, by the two great nations which had planted them-

selves on each side of the Isthmus of Panama.

The entire system adopted by the Mexicans, though highly symbolical, bore a character of dark and gloomy austerity. " The priests were wont to select for their

religious incantations, rocky caverns, lofty mountains,

and the deep gloom of eternal forests." 9 They worship-

ped

many

10
deities,

the

chief of which

were Teotl, the

invisible

and

supreme

n being ;

Virococha,

the

12
creator,

Vitzliputzli or Huitzilopochtli, as the name is spelt by

Humboldt, the

god

of

mercy

13 ;

Tescalipuca, the god of

vengeance ;

Quetzalcoatl,

the

Mexican

14
Mercury,

or

god

8 Sir W. Jones says truly, that the religion of Mexico and Peru was

substantially the same as that practised by the various nations of the
eastern hemisphere. (Asiat. Res., vol. i., p. 268.) And why should it

not?

It

was

evidently

derived

from

the

same

source ;

the Scythic

superstition as practised by the architects on the plain of Shinar.

9 Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 200. See also Maur. Ind. Ant., vol. ii..
p. 39. Purch. Pilgr., b. viii., c. 12, and Humb. Res. Amer. vol. ii. p!

244.

10 Some say they had two thousand gods. (Univ. Displ.. vol. i., p.

176.)

11 Humb. Res. Amer., vol. i., p. 83.

1S Acosta. Hist. Ind., p. 380.

13 Even this deity, with all the benign attributes which some ascribe

to him, is represented as delighting in the blood of human victims.

It is said in an old tradition, that he ' ; came into the world with a dart

in his right hand, and a buckler in his left, and his head covered with

a helmet crowned with green feathers. His first feat at his birth was

to kill his brothers and sisters ;" and hence originated the sanguinary

rites that were offered to 14 " Quetzalcoatl, whose

him.
name

(Humb. Res. Amer., \?ol. i., p. 220.) signifies Serpent clothed with green

feathers, from coatl, serpent and quetzalli, green feathers, is the most

mysterious being of the whole Mexican mythology. He was a white

and bearded man, high priest of Tula, legislator, chief of a religious

sect, which, like the Sonyasis and Buddhists of Hindostan, inflicted

on themselves the most cruel penances. In a Mexican drawing in the

Vatican library, I have seen a figure representing Quetzalcoatl appeas-

ing by his penances the wrath of the gods, when 13.060 years after

IN AMERICA.

195

of the air; Mictlancihautl, the goddess of hell ; Tlaloc-

teutli, who corresponded with Neptune, and Ixcuina, with

Venus. 15 To Vitzliputzli was ascribed the renovation of

the world ;

and

his

name was

deemed

ineffable, and

re-

ferred to the principal luminary, the Sun. He was said

to be the offspring of a virgin, who was impregnated by a Plume of Feathers which descended from heaven into

her bosom invested with all the colours of the Rainbow.16

Hence a Rainbow with a serpent attached to each end of

it

was

a

Mexican

17
symbol,

and

referred

to

the

two

parents of the human race who were miraculously pre-

served from the effects of the Deluge by the intervention

of Serpents. Vitzliputzli was represented in his temple

by the figure of a man, whose countenance was disfigured

by certain black lines drawn across his forehead and nose.

He was

seated

on

a

18
globe,

which

was

a symbol

of his

universal power, over a lofty altar, which was borne in

procession during the celebration of the mysteries, sup-

ported on four long poles, each end of which was orna-

mented with a serpent's head.19 His right hand grasped

a snake,

and his

left a buckler with

arrows ;

all

charged

with emblematical devices, each of which conveyed some

mysterious signification, and inculcated some useful

lesson upon the initiated.20

The office of Tescalipuca was to punish the sins of men

by the infliction of plague ; famine and pestilence, disease
and death. He was represented as a black man with a

the creation of the world, (I follow the vague chronology of Rios,) a great famine prevailed in the province of Culan. The saint had chosen his place of retirement near Tlaxapuchicalo on the volcano Catcitapetl, (Speaking mountain,) where he walked barefoot on agave
leaves armed with prickles. He finally disappeared at the mouth of
the river Goasacoalco, after having declared, to the Cholulans that he would return in a short time to govern them again and renew their
happiness." (Humb. Res., vol. i., p. 92.) 15 Codex Borgianus MSS., fo. 73, apud Huinb. Res., vol. i., p. 228. 16 Clavigero. Mexico. 17 Purch. Pilg., b. ix., c. 12. 18 Mr. Faber thinks that the globe on which this go*d was said to be
seated, was in reality no other than the calix ofthe lotos, and the deity himself was the triplicated great father, or Noah. (Fab. Pag Idol.,
vol. ii., p. 316.)
19 The temples of Mexico were replete with representations of this
reptile ; particularly of the amphisbsena, or mysterious serpent with two heads. (Humb. Res., vol. i., p. 131.)
30 Purch. Pilg., b. viii., c. 11.

196

HISTORY OF INITIATION

hideous countenance, enthroned upon an altar, and
decorated with rich jewels and valuable trinkets. His
anger could only be appeased by human sacrifices.21 The symbol of this terrible divinity was a blue feather, which was generally appended, in some conspicuous situation, about his person. "From his hair, tied up with a golden fillet, there hung an ear, which was another symbol, by which the afflicted soul and repenting sinner was taught, that he might confide in the divine mercy, who would listen to his prayers. He held four darts in his right hand,
signifying the punishment for sin, and the vengeance of
Heaven, which manifests itself to man by plagues, war,
poverty, and famine. His left hand held a golden mir-
ror, extremely smooth, and so bright as to receive the
objects clearly and distinctly. With the same hand he held, behind this mirror, a fan made of feathers, of all
kinds and colours, signifying that nothing was hid from

A 21 terrible picture of this insatiate monster has been drawn by

Marmontel, (Incas, vol. i., p. 77,) which makes the reader shudder.

Montezuma, in his distress, applies to the sovereign Pontiff for advice,

who

thus

addresses

him :

" Sir,"

said he,

" I would not have you be.

surprised at the weakness of our gods, or at the ruin which seems to

We await your empire.

have called up the mighty God of Evil, the

fearful Telcilepulca. He appeared to us over the pinnacle of the

Temple, amidst the darkness of the night. Clouds rent by lightning

were his seat. His head reached up to Heaven; his arms, which

stretched from north to south, seemed to incircle the whole earth :

from his mouth the poison of pestilence seemed ready to burst forth :

in his hollow eyes sparkled the devouring fire of madness and of

famine : he held in one hand the three darts of war, and in his other

rattled the fetters of captivity. His voice, like the sounds of storms

my and tempests, smote our ears : Ye mock me :

altars thirst in vain :

my victims are not fattened : a few half starved wretches are all the offerings ye bestow on me. Where is now the time when twenty

thousand captives in one day lay slaughtered in my temple ? Its rock

returned no other sound but groans and bitter wailings, which rejoiced

my

heart ;

altars swam

in

blood ;

rich

offerings

lay scattered on my

floor. Hath Montezuma forgotten that I am Telcalepulca, and that

all Heaven's plagues are the ministers of my wrath ? As for the other

gods, let him send them away empty, if he will ; their indulgence ex-

poses them to contempt : by suffering it they encourage and deserve it : but let him know that it is folly in the extreme to neglect a jealous god, the God of Evil." Terrified at this portentous intelligence, Montezuma gave instant orders that the captives should be surveyed,

and a thousand of them picked out to immolate to their incensed god,

that they should be fattened up with all possible expedition ; and that

as soon as every thing was ready, they should be offered up in solemn

sacrifice.

IN AMERICA.

197

that vindictive god. Round the idol were a great num-

ber

of

emblematical

22
figures."

The System of the Mexicans was barbarous and bloody

in the extreme. Their Temples were covered with re-

presentations

of monstrous

23
serpents,

tigers

and

all

sorts

23 Rel. Cerem. of Various Nations, p. 316.

23 The temples of religion in most nations were decorated with

serpents to indicate their sacred character. (Pers., Sat. i., 113, and see Signs and Symb., Lect. 3.) From the general use of this hierogly-

phic in systems of idolatry, we may trace its introduction into the legends of romance. For this idea I am indebted to Mr. Faber, and

shall transcribe from his elaborate work, on the Origin of Pagan Idolatry, a passage in support of the proposition. " In British fiction, we have a Lady of the Lake, who is said to have been the sister of King

Arthur, and who is celebrated by the name of Morgana, or Viviana.

Boiardo represents her as gliding beneath the waters of an enchanted

lake, while she caresses a vast serpent, into which form she had
metamorphosed one of her lovers. And other romance writers de-

scribe her as the perfidious paramour of Merlin, who was wont to

denominate her the White Serpent. Her character has been taken

from that of the White Goddess, who presided over the Sacred Lake,

and who, as the navicular serpent, was the diluvian vehicle of the great
universal Father." (Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 321.) And again, in

the Arabian Tales, contests between the good and evil demons are

very frequently introduced, and sometimes they are represented in the

form of serpents, agreeably to the universal belief of all the east. In

one of these tales, the malignant serpent, or an evil genius in that

form, is represented as endeavouring to destroy the beneficent genius,

depicted also as a winged snake. The passage is as follows, and is an

extraordinary incident which occurred to Zobeide, after her sisters

had cruelly thrown her overboard, and she had miraculously succeeded in gaining the land. u I laid myself down," said she to the caliph of Bagdad, " in a shade, and soon after I saw a winged serpent, very large

and long, coming towards me, wriggling to the right and to the left, and hanging out his tongue, which made me think he had got some

hurt. I arose and saw a larger serpent following him, holding him by

the tail, and endeavouring to devour him. I had compassion on him, and, instead of flying away, I had the boldness and courage to take

up a stone that by chance lay by me, and threw it with all my strength

at the great serpent, whom I hit on the head and killed him. The other,

finding himself at liberty, took to his wings and flew away. I looked

a long while after him 'in the air, as an extraordinary thing : but he

flew out of sight, and I lay down again in another place in the shade,
and fell- asleep. When I awaked, judge ho\v I was surprised to see by me a black woman, of a lively and agreeable complexion. I sat up and asked her who she was. I am, said she, the serpent whom you

delivered not long since from my mortal enemy," &c., &c. Mr. Faber,

whose opinions are entitled to considerable respect, thus endeavours

to account for that universal degeneracy of principle which induced

mankind to offer the rites of divine worship to this disgusting symbol.

4t
Serpents,"

he

says,

" were

accounted the greatest of gods, and the

198

HISTORY OF INITIATION

of uncouth and horrible figures, compounded of men and animals. " They had dark houses full of idols, great and
small, and wrought of sundry metals. These were all
bathed and washed with human blood an inch thick on

the walls of the houses, and a foot thick on the floors." 24

Their sacred chapel at Mexico was decorated with the
skulls of those unhappy wretches wrho had been slain in
sacrifice and their priests were clad in garments made
of their skins.25

The celebration of their mysterious rites was preceded

by long and painful fastings and mortification. The can-

didate was subjected to all the terrors, sufferings, and

penances which attended the purifications of the eastern

world.

He was scourged with

knotted

cords ;

his

flesh

was

cut with

26
knives,

or

cauterized with

red

hot

cinders ;

and many other severities was he compelled to undergo,

that his fortitude might be fully proved before he was

admitted to those distinctions which conferred the high

privilege of personally sacrificing his fellow men. The

probation was pressed with such unrelenting cruelty,

that many perished under it. And should the wretched

candidate, even under the most excruciating infliction,

leading

principles of the

universe ;

and as such

they were invariably

introduced both into the Temples, and into the due celebration of the

Mysteries The real ground of their being accounted the greatest of

the gods was this : they were employed, according to their sexes, to

symbolize the great father and the great mother. And in this manner

we find them venerated in every quarter of the globe." (Fab. Pag.

Idol., b. ii., c. 7.
24 Gage. Surv. of the West Indies, p. 12. 25 Human victims were sacrificed in Tlacaxipehualitztli the first

month of the Mexican year, for the purpose of procuring their skins for the priests. (Humb. Res., vol. i., p. 290.) The origin of this re-
volting custom may be found in the following legend, which is recorded in a folio, entitled, "The Ceremonies and Religious Customs of various
Nations," (p. 310). " Tozi, that is to say, our Grand Mother, was of
mortal extraction. Vitzliputzli procured her divine honours by enjoining the Mexicans to demand her of her father, who was King of Culhucacan, for their queen ; this being done, they also commanded him to put her to death, afterwards to flay her, and to cover a young man
with her skin. It was in this manner she was stripped of her humani-

ty, to be translated among the gods." 26 Quetzalcoatl " introduced the custom of piercing the lips and ears,
and lacerating the rest of the body with the prickles of the agave leaf, or the thorns of the cactus, and of putting reeds into the wounds, in order that the blood might be seen to trickle more copiously." (Humb.

Res.,

vol.

i. ;

p.

92.)

IN AMERICA.

199

utter so much as a sigh, a groan, or an impatient excla-
mation, he was dismissed with contempt, and from that moment considered unworthy the honour of admission into the society of his equals. One striking shade of dif-
ference is observable between the preparations of the Mexicans, and those of other idolatrous nations. The

purifications of the latter were performed with water,

the other by blood.27 The candidate's habit was also

28
black,

instead of the white

garments

of

other

nations,

in accordance with that ferocity of disposition which the

habitual practice of sacrificing men must necessarily pro-

duce. Before initiation he was anointed with an oint-

ment

29
ritually prepared,

which

was

said

"to

dispel

fear,

and invigorate courage. It was made of the juice of the

most venomous creatures at the altar of the idol, the

ashes of which were pounded in a mortar, and mixed with tobacco, to which they added live scorpions, and some other venomous insects. They heightened this compo-

sition with a herb which has the property of disturbing the brain, as also with soot and rosin. This is what they call the repast or sustenance of the gods "30
The Temple of Vitzliputzli, in Mexico, was of such an

extraordinary magnitude, that a city consisting of five hundred houses31 might have been erected within the
compass of its walls.32 Its form was that of a truncated

27 Rel. Cerem. of Various Nations, p. 318. 28 Faber says. " their orgies appear to have been of a peculiarly

gloomy and terrific nature, sufficient to strike with horror, even the

most undaunted hearts." (Fab. Pag. 29 Fab. Pag. Idol., v. iii., p. 188.

IdwolU.n,ivvo.l.Diiisi.p,lap.ye1d8.8,.)v.

i.,

p.

190.

31 Rel. Cerem. of Various Nations, p. 316. 33 " The group of pyramids of Teotihuacan is in the valley of Mexico, 8 leagues N. E. from the capital, in the plain that bears the name of

Micoatl, (he Path of the Dead. There arc two large Pyramids, dedicated to the sun (Tonatiuh) and to the moon (Mextli), and these are surrounded by several hundreds of smaller pyramids, which form streets in exact lines from north to south, and from east to west. Of

these two great teocallis, one is 55 metres, (180,450416 feet.) and the other 44 metres, (144,3603 feet,)' in perpendicular height. The basis of the first is 208 metres, (682,4306 feet in length. The small

pyramids are scarcely 10 metres, (32,80916 feet) high; and served,

according to the tradition of the natives, as burial places for the chiefs

of the tribes. On the top of the great teocallis were two colossal

statues of the

sun

and

moon ;

they were

of stone, and covered with

plates of gold, of which they were stripped by the soldiers of Cortes."

(Humb. Res., vol. i., p. 84.)

200

HISTORY OF INITIATION

33
pyramid,

on

the

flat top

of

which

were

one

or two

chapels, which contained the colossal idols of the divini-

34
ty ;

and

it

served for an

observatory

as well

as for

35
sacrifice.

Here it was that the Mexican mysteries were

celebrated

on

a grand

scale 36 ;

and

here

it

was

that

all

the

crimes of a bloody and revolting superstition were con-

centrated, and all the horrible phantasies of a dark and

barbarous worship were exhibited in full perfection. The

young aspirant, notwithstanding he had been anointed

with a stupifying unguent, was overwhelmed with horror

at beholding his fellow creatures wantonly immolated

under the pretence of explaining an otherwise incommu-

nicable

37
mystery.

He now descended into the dark and cheerless caverns

of initiation38 which had been excavated beneath the

33 Purch. Pilg., b. viii., c. 12.

** Humb. Res., vol. i., p. 82.

35 Ibid., p. 100, 103.

36 "It is impossible," says M. Humboldt, (Res., vol. i., p. 82.) "to

read the descriptions which Herodotus and Diodorus have left us of

the Temple of Jupiter Belus, without being struck with the resem-

blance of that Babylonian monument to the teocallis of Anahuac." 37 These abominable sacrifices were performed as follows : " The

sovereign priest carried a large and sharp knife in his hand, made of a

flint; another priest carried a collar of wood, wrought in the form of

a snake ;

the other four priests

who assisted,

arranged

themselves in

order adjoining the

pyramidal

stone ;

being

directly against the door

of the chapel of their idol. This stone was so pointed, that the man

who was to be sacrificed, being laid thereon upon his back, did bend

in such sort as occasioned the stomach to separate upon the slightest
incision of the knife. When the sacrificers were thus in order, they

brought forth such as had been taken in war, and caused them to mount

up those large stairs in rank to the place where the ministers were

prepared. As they respectfully approached those ministers, the latter

seized them, two of them laying hold of the two feet, and two more of

the two hands of the unhappy victim, and in this manner cast him upon

his back upon the pointed stone, while the fifth fastened round his

neck the serpentine collar of wood. The high priest then opened his

stomach with the knife, with wonderful dexterity and nimbleness,

tearing out his heart with his hand, which he elevated smoking towards

the sun, to whom he did offer it, and presently turning towards the

idol, did cast the heart towards it, besmearing his face with the blood.

In this .manner were all the victims sacrificed, and the bodies after-

wards precipitated down the stairs, reeking with their gore. There

were forty or fifty victims at the least thus sacrificed." (Acosta'sHist.

of the Ind., p. 383.)
33 j n persia, numerous galleries built with stone, and communica-

ting with each other by shafts, fill up the interior of the artificial

hills." (Humb. Res., vol. i., p. 102.) Many of these excavations have been discovered in different parts of this continent. Two fine caves,

IN AMERICA.

201

foundations

of

this

stupendous

39
temple,

and

passed

through the horrible mysteries of the Mexican religion,

which emblematically represented the wanderings of

their god. These caverns were denominated, the path of

the dead. Here he saw such sights as made his blood run

cold. The phantoms of slain victims passed before his

eyes; this moment seen, the next lost in the darkness.
Now he heard the groans of the dying, the shrieks of

despair, and the howlings of hopeless grief, rendered still

more dismaying by the ominous sound of the sacred

horn,40 while he passed, with tottering footsteps, the

dungeons where religious victims were confined. Every

step he took, some horrible object flitting across the

gloom met his eyes ;

some

sound,

appalling

to

his

41
senses,

struck upon his ear; and he proceeded with measured

pace, fearful lest the knife of the sacrificing priest should

be next applied to him ; or that an incautious step might

precipitate him into some deep and hidden pitfall, where

resembling the extraordinary caverns in the peak of Derbyshire, have recently been found about twelve miles from Albany. (Gent's. Mag.,

Jan., 1822.)

39 "I have been assured," says M. Humboldt, (Res., vol. i., p. 90,)

(! by some Indians of Cholula, that the inside of the pyramids is hol-

low ;

and that during the abode of Cortes in this city,

their ancestors

had concealed in the body of the pyramid a considerable number of

warriors, who were to fall suddenly on the Spaniards ; but the

materials of which the teocalli is built, and the silence of the historians

of those 'times, give bul; little probability to this latter assertion. It
is certain, however, that in the interior of the pyramids there are considerable cavities, which were used as sepulchres," &c.
40 Univ. Displayed, vol. i., p. 194.
A 41 U traveller of credit gives us an account, in the Philosophical
Transactions, of a remarkable cave, some leagues to the north-west of Mexico, gilded all over with a sort of leaf-gold, which had eluded many Spaniards by its promising colour, for they could never reduce it into a body, either by quicksilver or fusion. This traveller went thither one morning, with an Indian for his guide, and found its situation was pretty high, and in a place very proper for the generation of metals. As he entered into it, the light of the candle soon discovered
on all sides, but especially over his head, a glittering canopy of these mineral leaves ; at which he greedily snatching, there fell down a great lump of sand, that not only put out his candle, but almost blinded him ; and calling aloud to his Indian, who stood at the entrance of the cave, as, being afraid of spirits and hobgoblins, it occasioned such thundering and redoubled echoes, that the poor fellow, imagining he had been wrestling with some infernal ghosts, soon quitted his station, and thereby left a free passage for some rays of light to enter, and serve him
for a better guide." (Univ. Displayed, vol. i., p. 397.)

202

HISTORY OP INITIATION

his cries might not be heard. Thus was he conducted

through caverns slippery with half congealed blood;

damp, gloomy, and full of terror. His ears are saluted

with heavy groans. His heart throbs as they seem to

rise from beneath his feet.

His fears

are

realized ;

for

here lay the quivering frame of a dying victim, whose

heart had been violently rent from its living

42
sepulchre,

and offered up in sacrifice to

the sanguinary

43
gods.

The

candidate averts his eyes, and trembles for his own

security. He turns to his guide and is about to break

through the strict injunction of silence which he received

at his entrance into these subterranean chambers of

death. His guide, with an expressive look, lays his finger

on his lips, and the candidate restrains his indignation.
He pauses and looks around him. He finds himself in a

spacious vault, through which an artificial sun or lambent

flame darted its feeble lustre 44 and in the roof observes ;

a small orifice, through which the wretched victim had

been precipitated ; for they were now immediately be-

neath

the

high

altar

of

45
Vitzliputzli.

Hurried on from one horror to another, it was only

the rapidity of his movements that prevented him from

sinking under the trial ; it was only the change of scene

and situation which, dissipating reflection, supported him

under the arduous ceremony. At length they arrived at

a narrow chasm or stone fissure at the termination of

this extensive range of caverns, through which the

We 42

have already seen that the priests were clothed in the skins

of victims ; and they had another disgusting practice of a similar nature,

which is thus related. "It was a custom among them on certain

festivals, to dress a man in the bloody skin, just reeking from the body

A of one of their victims.

Spanish author assures us that even their

kings and grandees did not think it derogatory to their honour to dis-

guise themselves in this manner, when the captive sacrificed was a

person of distinction. Be that as it will, the disguised person used to run up and down the streets, and places of public resort of the city, to

beg the charity of all those he met with, and to beat such as refused.

This bloody kind of masquerade continued till such time as the skin

coat began to stink. The money that was collected in this devout

ramble, was employed in pious uses. Not to mention another festival, when they used to slay a woman, and clothe an Indian with her skin,

who, thus equipped, danced for two days together with the rest of his

fellow-citizens." (Univ. Dis., vol. i., p. 189, 192.)

43 Acosta. Hist. Ind., p. 382.

Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 189.

45 Humb. Res., vol. i., p. 222.

IN AMERICA.

203
y

aspirant was formally protruded, and was received by a

shouting multitude in the open air as a person regene-

rated

or

born

46
again.

During the secret celebration of the rites, the females

without, divesting themselves of the little clothing which
they usually wore, sang and danced47 in a state of nudity like the frantic Bacchantes.43 This dance they repeated three times ; after which they welcomed the new-born

aspirant at his deliverance from the sepulchral process of

initiation, and gave themselves up to boundless licen-

tiousness

and

49
prostitution.

The most outrageous acts

of indecency were now committed and tolerated; and

the services misnamed sacred, were stained with every

species

of

50
impurity.

And thus were closed the primary

initiations of this savage race.
However the general doctrines of this religion might be

communicated to the initiated, there were certain degrees

of information respecting the most occult rites which

were absolutely unattainable, except by the priests ; and not even by them until they were qualified to receive

the distinguished appellation of Ministers of sacred things

by the

sacrifice

of

a

human

victim 51 ;

and this dignity

once attained, they were eligible to the highest offices of
the priesthood. An hour was chosen for the performance

46 This was undoubtedly the Pastes of the eastern mysteries, and

constitutes an additional proof that they were all derived from one

common source ;

for

the

cavern

symbolized

the Ark, and the chasm

the door through which the great Father proceeded into the renovated

world, and was hence said to be a second time born.

47 The quadrangle in which the temple of Vitzliputzli was situated

was so extensive, that "eight or ten thousand persons used to dance

therein on solemn days with the greatest ease." (Univ. Dis., vol. i.,

p. 187.)

48 Purch. Pilg., b. 8, c. 4.

49 Rel. Cer. of Var. Nat., p. 289.

50 Purchas (ut supra) tells us that the young females prostituted

themselves without ceremony from 14 or 15 to about 20 years of

age, when they were considered eligible to enter into the marriage

state !

51 Prisoners of rank, or approved courage, had a faint chance afforded

them

of escaping

the horrid

rite

of

immolation,

by

publicly

c:
fighting

six Mexican warriors in succession. If the prisoner were fortunate

enough to conquer them, his liberty was granted, and he was permitted to return to his own country ; if, on the contrary, he sunk under the

strokes of one of his adversaries, a priest called Chalchiuhtepehua

dragged him, dead or living, to the altar, and tore out his heart."

(Humb. Ees., vol. i,. p. 267.)

204

HISTORY OF INITIATION

of these solemn rites, and it was at midnight only that the most ineffable degrees of knowledge were communi-
cated ; and that under severe obligations, whose penalty was death without remission.

Their instruction was symbolical, and referred principally to the Deluge, and the wanderings and subsequent settlement of their ancestors on the lake in which Mexico

was built. They were ignorant of the means used to

create the world ;

but asserted

that

four suns had

been

created

and

52
destroyed ;

the

first was

destroyed

by

52 " The Mexicans believed, according to a very ancient prediction, that the end of the world would take place at the termination of a

cycle of fifty-two years ; that the sun would no more appear in the

horizon ;

and that mankind would be devoured by evil genii of hideous

appearance, known under the name of Tzitzi mimes. This belief was,

no doubt, connected with the Tolteck tradition of the Four (Suns or)

Ages, according to which the earth had already undergone four great

revolutions, three of which had taken place at the end of a cycle. The

people passed in the deepest consternation the five complimentary days; and on the fifth the sacred fire was extinguished in the temples

by order of the high priest; in the convents, the monks devoted

themselves to prayer; at the approach of night, no person dared light

the fire in his house ;

the vessels of clay were broken, garments torn,

and whatever was most precious was destroyed, because everything

appeared useless at the tremendous moment of the last day. Amidst

this frantic superstition, pregnant women became the objects of pecu-

liar

horror

to

the

men ;

their

faces were

hidden with

masks !

they

were imprisoned in the storehouses of maize, from a persuasion, that

if the cataclysm took place, the women, transformed into tigers, would

make common cause with the evil genii, to avenge themselves of the

injustice of the men. In the evening of the last day began the festival of the new fire. The priests took the dresses of their gods ; and, followed by an immense crowd of people, went in solemn procession

to the mountain of Huixachtecatl, two leagues from Mexico. This lugubrious march was termed the march of the gods (teonenemi), a denomination which reminded the Mexicans that the gods had quitted
the city, and that, perhaps, they would see them no more. When the

procession had reached the summit of the mountain, it waited the moment when the Pleiades ascended the middle of the sky, to begin the horrible sacrifice of a human victim. The body of the victim

remained stretched on the ground, and the instrument made use of to

kindle the fire by rubbing, was placed on the wound which the priest of Copulco, armed with a knife of obsidian, had made in the breast of the prisoner destined to be sacrificed. When the bits of wood detached

by the rapid motion of the cylinder, had taken fire, an enormous pile,

previously prepared to receive the body of the unfortunate victim] was kindled. The flames of the pile were seen from a great part of the valley of Mexico, on account of the height of the mountain on which this sanguinary rite was performed ; and the people filled the
air with joyful exclamations. All those who were not able to follow

IN AMERICA.

205

water; the second by giants; the third by fire, and the

fourth by a tempest of wind, which was succeeded by a

darkness of twenty-five years' duration. The sun which now enlightens the world they held to be the fifth ; smd
he was the object of their adoration.53 They spake of

Tonacateuctli, the great father, and Cihuacohuatl, the

great

mother of

mankind,

and

her

54
serpent,

which was

ultimately

crushed

by

the

mighty

spirit

Teotl ;

they

taught that, in the early ages, long before the Incas

began to reign, the sea overflowed its banks, covered

the whole continent with water, and drowned all the

inhabitants except one family who were enclosed in a

box.55 After a confinement of some length, they sent

the procession, were stationed on the terraces of houses, or the tops of the teocallis, or the hills that arose in the middle of the lake; their
eyes were fixed on the spot where the flame was to appear, a certain
presage of the benevolence of the gods, and of the preservation of
mankind during the course of a new cycle. Messengers posted at respective distances, holding branches of the wood of a very resinous pine, carried the new fire from village to village, to the distance of
fifteen or twenty leagues; it was deposited in every temple, whence it
was distributed to every private dwelling. When the sun began to
appear on the horizon, the acclamations redoubled. The procession
returned to the city, and the people thought that they beheld their
gods return to their sanctuaries. The women were now released from prison ; every one put on new dresses, and everything went on in its

usual course." (Humb. Res., vol. i., p. 380.) 53 The Floridans worshipped the sun in a deep cavern, under the
form of a cone or phallus. (Ban. Myth., vol. i., p. 144.)
54 Humb. Res., vol. i., p. 195. Evidently referring to our first parents
in paradise, and the serpent tempter. 55 The cosmogony of the North American savages is thus given by
Hennepin in his voyage to a country larger than Europe. " The world was created by a spirit to which the Iroquois have given the name of Otkon, those of Virginia, Okee, and other savages, who inhabit the mouth of St. Lawrence's river, Atahauta, and that one Messou destroyed it after the Flood. They tell us that, as Messou was one day hunting, his dogs lost themselves in a great lake, which happening to overflow, soon spread itself over all the earth. They add that, by the help of some animals, he restored the world. The savages that
inhabit the head of St. Lawrence's river, and the Mississippi, tell us,
that a woman descended from heaven, and hovered some time in the

air, seeking where to rest her foot ; tnat the tortoise offered his back,

which she accepted, and chose that place for her residence; that

afterwards the filth of the sea gathered itself about the tortoise, and

insensibly expanded itself to a great extent of ground. However, as

this woman

did

not delight

in

solitude, a

spirit

descended

from

above j

who,

finding her

asleep,

drew

near to her ;

that

the

result

of

his ap-

proach

was,

her

being

with

child ;

that she was delivered of two sons.

206

HISTORY OF INITIATION

out birds, by which it was ascertained that the waters

had subsided, for one of them brought back in its mouth

the

branch

of

a

tree ;

when

they quitted

their

asylum

and repeopled the earth. They inculcated the immor-

tality of the soul, and worshipped a triad consisting of

Vitzliputzli Tlaloc Tescalipuca. Then followed an

account of their original population, which bears such a

striking analogy with the settling of the Israelites in the

promised land, as to induce some authors to suspect that

it proceeded from a tradition of the deliverance of that

people from their Egyptian captivity, and their subse-

who came out of her side. When the children were grown up, they
exercised themselves in hunting ; and as one of them was a much
more skilful hunter than the other, jealousy soon occasioned discord. They lived together in irreconcilable hatred. The unskilful hunter, who was of a very savage temper, treated his brother so ill, as forced him to leave the earth, and withdraw to heaven. After he had thus
withdrawn himself, the spirit returned again to the woman, and from this second interview a daughter was born, who is the grand parent of the North Americans." (Rel. Cerem. of Var Nat., p. 298.) In
commenting on the above legends, it will be needless to say that they bear a decided reference to the Creation and the Deluge. The learned Grotius tells us (De verit., 1. i., s. 16), that " in many parts of America is preserved the memory of the Deluge, and the preservation of

animals, particularly the raven and the dove." Messou and his dogs

are but a transcript of Pwyll in the mysteries of Britain, for dogs
were a legitimate token of the diluvian celebrations ; and it is remark-
able how generally this belief has prevailed in every region of the world. The woman who descended from heaven resembles the Gre-

cian Juno (Yuneh), or the dove; and the tortoise reminds us of the Courma Avater of the East, in which the same animal supports Vishnu
on his back while the Deluge is produced. The contact of the Spirit
with the sleeping woman is an evident specimen of the confusion
which pervades every idolatrous system. The act of Creation is so

intimately blended with the Deluge, as certainly to refer to the doctrine of an endless succession of worlds for destruction was ever
;
considered but as a necessary prelude to reproduction ; and creation

but the act of renewing matter which had been previously destroyed. The two sons thus begotten were the Cain and Abel of Moses ; and, perhaps, the manner in which they were born might have some indistinct reference to the creation or birth of Eve from the side of her

husband. The second meeting of the Spirit and the woman produced

a daughter, who corresponds with the Great Mother of the eastern

world ;

and

the

repeopling of the

earth

by

means

of these

infant

deities was annually commemorated by a solemn sacrifice. The people

assembled on a lake or river in innumerable canoes to witness the

ceremony. A boy and girl of great beauty were produced by the

priests, and, after certain mysterious rites, they were placed in a leaky

boat, and abandoned to the miserable fate of perishing in the waters.

(Purch. Pilgr.. b. viii., c. 13. Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. i., p. 271.^

IN AMERICA.

207

A quent wanderings in the wilderness.

warlike tribe of

North Americans, says the legend, under an experienced

chief, and directed by the god Vitzliputzli, who, holding

in

his

hand

a

rod

formed

like

a

56
serpent,

was

seated

in

a

square Ark,57

made

of

58
reeds,

called

the

throne

of the

59
god,

(teoicpalli)

the

four

angels

of which were

sur-

mounted by serpents' heads.60 The ark was borne by

four

61
priests;

and

thus

protected, the people set out in

quest of a settlement, assured by the god that they
should conquer every enemy who might be rash enough

to
by

oppose their the direction

62
design.

They

of Vitzliputzli ;

wmawrhcoh,edduarnidngetnhceamcpoend-

tinuance of an extended rest, revealed the mode of wor-

4
ship*

which

was

most

acceptable

to him ;

and dictated

a code of laws to be used when they had taken possession

of the land of promise ; and also distinctly marked the

place of

their settlement

to be

upon

a

65
lake,

abounding

with

the

66
lotos,

on

the

borders

of

which

they

should

find

a fig-tree growing out of a rock, where was perched an

eagle in the act of devouring its prey. In the midst of
their encampments a tabernacle was erected, which con-

tained an altar67 for the reception of the sacred ark, on

which their god was triumphantly seated. After a long

and tedious expedition they arrived at the precise spot

56 Could this primitive people have any tradition that the Rod of

Moses was changed into a serpent? (Exod. iv.. 3.)

57 The Israelites were accompanied by an Ark (Josh, iii., 1), which

was esteemed the throne of God.

(Exod.

xxv.,

22 ;

xl., 38 ;

Psalm

Ixxx..

1 ;

Isai. xxxvi.,

16.)

And Moses was concealed in an Ark of

bulrushes.

58 Purch. Pilgr., b. viii., c. 10.

3 Humb. Res., vol. i., p. 216.

60 These correspond with the horns of the Israelitish altar. (Exod.

xxxviii., 2.)
61 Vid. Deut. xi., 8. Josh, vi., 6. 62 " If thou shalt say in thine heart, These nations are more than I,
how can I dispossess them ? Thou shalt not be affrighted at them ; for the Lord thy God is among you, a mighty God, and terrible."

(Deut. vii., 17, 21.) 63 Robertson, Amer., b. iv., s. 8. Vid. Exod. xl., 36.

64 Exod. xxiv., 12. 65 The Mexican tradition of the Deluge, and the building of a tower

to reach the heavens, may be found in Signs and Symbols, Lect. 5.

66 It will be altogether unnecessary here to point out the resem-

blance which the Ark, the serpent-rod, the lotos, and the lake, bear to the rites of the eastern world. It will be apparent to the most casual

reader of the preceding pages.

7 Exod. xl., 2, 3.

208

HISTORY OF INITIATION

which had been pointed out, and, finding the prescribed

tokens, they built the city of Mexico on an island in the

midst of the

water GS ;

furnished it with a pyramidal

69
temple,

and

soon

became

a

populous

and

flourishing

nation.

Their knowledge was wrapped up in hieroglyphical

symbols

70
;

and

they were

acquainted with

a most com-

plete

system

of

picture

71
writing,

by

the

"use

of which

they perpetuated their history, as well as their philo

sophy. Like all other early nations, they bore a particular

affection for amulets, which were considered the habita-

68 Purch. Pilgr., b. viii.. c. 10.
69 Ibid. b. ix., c. 9. Humb. Res., vol. i., p. 81.

70 The Mexican temples were covered over with hieroglyphics sculp-

tured in relief. Thus to express the rapid progress of time, they

introduced a serpent; for suffering innocence, a rabbit was the sj'mbol.
Drawings of feet denoted a public road. A living man was represented

by a human figure with small tongues painted near his mouth ; a dead

man had none of those appendages. To live is to speak, say they;

and hence a volcano was symbolized by a cone with tongues over its

summit, to denote the mountain that speaks, &c. (Vid. Humb. Res.,

vol. i., p. 140. Warb. Div. Leg., vol. ii., p. 67.)

71 The first method of recording public events, used by this people,

was by knots or quippus (Marm. Incas., vol. i., p. 32) ; but the imper-

fection of this system caused it soon to be abandoned, and hieroglyphics

were introduced; and at the conquest of Cortes they formed an

exclusive profession in which thousands of persons were employed.

Their books were rolled in a zigzag form, and the paintings were

executed on the folds. They had ''real simple hieroglyphics for

water, earth, air, wind, day, night, the middle of the night, speech,

motion ;

they had

also for

numbers, for the

days and

the

months of

the solar year. These signs, added to the painting of an event,

marked, in a very ingenious manner, whether the action passed during

the day or night ; the age of the persons they wished to represent ;

whether they had been conversing, and who among them had spoken

We most.

even find among them vestiges of that kind of hierogly-

phics which is called phonetic, and which indicates relations, not with

things, but with the language spoken. Among semi-barbarous nations,

the names of individuals, of cities and mountains, have generally some

allusion to objects that strike the senses, such as the form of plants

and animals, fire, air, or earth. This circumstance has given the Azteck people the means of being able to write the names of cities

and those of their sovereigns. The verbal translation of Axajacatl is,

face of water; that of Ilhuicamina, arrow which pierces the sky; thus

to represent the kings Monteuczoma Ilhuicamina and Axajacatl, the

painter united the hieroglyphics of water and the sky to the figure of

a head and of an arrow. In this manner the union of several simple

hieroglyphics indicated compound names, and by signs which spoke

at the same time to the eye and to the ear." (Humb. Res., vol. i.,

p. 159.)

IN AMERICA.

209

tion of benevolent spirits, whose intervention would preserve them from every species of calamity in this life; and convey them, after death, to a happy and

flourishing country;

blest with perpetual

and
pi-.-ici-

plenty; abounding with game and fish; free from storms

and tempests, blight and mildew, and all the terrible

judgments inflicted on the wicked by the agency and wrath of the vindictive Tescalipuca.
"The Incas of Peru boasted of their descent from the

two great luminaries of heaven ; or, in other words, from
Noah and the Ark, worshipped in conjunction with the Sun and Moon."72 The rites of initiation were essentially the same as those of other nations; varied, indeed, in a

succession of ages from the system of the original plant-

ers. They were said to have been introduced by Manco

Capac

and

Mama

O 73 cello,

who

were

descended

from

one

of

the

persons

saved

at

the

74
Deluge.

They taught the

natives to worship a god called Pacha-Camac a name

so venerable, that those who were intrusted with it were

bound by solemn oaths never to expose it to profanation.

They

termed

the

Creator

75
Viracocha,

which

signifies

"the

froth of

the

sea;"

and

the

evil

power

76
Cupai.

72 Fab. Mys. Cab., c. 4. " They worshipped every object in Nature

from which they derived any advantage ; mountains, the sources of

rivers, rivers themselves, and the fountains which watered and fer-

tilized the earth; the trees which afforded them fuel; those animals

of a gentle and timid nature upon which they fed ; the sea abounding

with fish, and which they denominated their Nurse. But objects of

terror had the most numerous votaries. Whatever was hideous, or horrible, they converted to a god, as if man delighted to terrify him-

self. They worshipped the tiger, the lion, the vulture, and large

snakes ;

they adored the elements, tempests, the winds, thunder,

caverns, and precipices ; they prostrated themselves before torrents,

the noise of

which depressed

them with

fear ;

before gloomy forests,

and at the foot of those dreadful volcanos, which cast forth upon them

torrents of flame and rocks of fire." (Incas, vol. ii., p. 4, 5.)

Abbe 73

Raynal, Hist. Ind., vol. iii., p. 17. Garcil., b. i., c. 15.

These personages were the Osiris and Isis, Bacchus and Rhea, Hu

and Ceridwen. &c., of the old world.

74 They say also that Manco Capac, like Mithras, was born from a

Rock or Cave (Purch. Pilgr., b. ix., c. 9) ; but in all nations there

was such an intimate connection between a cave and the Ark, that the

one was frequently mistaken for the other.

75 To this god the father of a family would offer his son as a vicarious

sacrifice to avert sickness from his family. (Acosta, p. 380.) He was

also identified with the Sun. (Purch., b. ix., c. 10.

76 Cerem. of Var. Nat., p. 329.

15

210

HISTORY OF INITIATION

They

worshipped

a

Triad

of

deity,

for

Acosta

77
says,

they

had an idol whom they called Tangatanga, which signi-

fies, One in Three, and Three in One; and paid divine

honours to the Sun79 as

the

fountain

of

80
Light,

and

the

parent of the Incas. 81
On their great annual festival, which was held on the

first day of the September moon, their secret mysteries

were celebrated, which they believed would convey a

77 Cerem. of Var. Nat., p. 412.

78 Faber (Pag. Idol, vol. i.. p. 269) says they entertained a belief in two other triads. " The first consisted of Chuquilla Catuilla

Intylappa, or the father-thunder, the son-thunder, and the brother-

thunder ;

the

second

of Apomti

Churunti

Intiquaoqui, the father-

Sun, the son-Sun, and the brother-Sun." 79 " At Cusco was that wonderful temple of the sun, the beauty and

riches whereof surpassed imagination. I shall transcribe the descrip-

tion which one of their Incas. called Garcilasso, has given us thereof.

His words are as follow : ' The high altar of this pompous edifice

stood eastward ;

and the roof, which was made of timber, was thatched

over, they having no tile or brick among them. The four walls of the

temple, from the top downwards, were all covered over with plates of

gold, and the ceiling was also of gold. On the high altar was the

figure of the sun, represented on a gold plate, twice as thick as those which covered the walls. This figure, which was made of one con-

tinued piece, represented a round face, surrounded with rays and

flames, in the same manner as our painters usually draw the sun. It

was of so prodigious a breadth, that it almost covered one side of the

wall, on which there was no other representation of any kind. This

was the only one the Peruvians had, either in that or any other temple. On each side of the image of the sun, the several bodies of their

deceased incas, or monarchs, were ranged in order, according to the

course of their respective reigns, and 'so embalmed (the manner of which is not known to us) that they seemed to be alive. They were

seated on thrones of gold, raised on plates of the same metal, with

their faces looking towards the bottom of the temple. This temple

had several gates, which were all covered with plates of gold, the

chief of which looked towards the north, as it still does to this day.

Moreover, round the walls of this temple, on the outside, was a cornice

of gold, in the shape of a crown or garland, more than a yard broad.

On

one

side

of the

temple

was

a

cloister,

built

in

a

quadrangular

form ;

and in its highest enclosure a garland of pure gold, an ell broad, like

the above-mentioned. Round this cloister were five square pavilions,

or houses, covered over in the shape of a pyramid. The first was

built for the habitation of the moon, the sun's wife, and stood the
nearest to the great chapel of the temple. The doors and enclosures

of it were covered with silver plates ; its white colour denoting that it was the apartment allotted to the moon, whose figure was repre-

sented

like that of

the

sun ;

but with

this

difference, that it stood

upon a silver plate, and was represented with a ' woman's face."

(Univ. Dis., vol. i., p. 268, 269.) 80 liaynal. Hist. Ind., vol. iii., p. 20.

81 Marm. Incas, vol p ii., 40

IN AMERICA.

211

general lustration, cleanse the soul from all its impurities, and render the body healthy and less susceptible of dis-
ease. They prepared for this solemnity by a fast of four and twenty hours' continuance; and then kneaded tin-

purifying

element,

which

was

a

sort

of

82
dough

mixed

with blood, and called Cancu.83 After washing their

bodies, they anointed them with this dough, and fixed

the remainder on the door of their habitation. Thus

purified, the people watched the rising of the sun84 with
great emotion ; and when his radiance burst upon their
view, the eastern doors of their temple were expanded, and his image in burnished gold was illuminated with the
blazing splendour of his beams. The whole multitude,

in devout prostration, chanted the sacred hymn, led by

the High Priest.85 After this, the mild and equitable

laws of Peru, were rehearsed ;

and the Inca, with the

chief officers of the realm, swore to administer justice

A with strict impartiality.

procession of young men

and maidens succeeded, habited in white and spotless

garments, and bearing garlands of flowers. These pa-

raded round the temple until the Sun had attained his

meridian

86
height,

when

the

Inca

and

High

Priest

offered

up a solemn prayer to that deity. The consecrated

virgins then approached, and were presented to the Inca,

and heard from the unpolluted lip of the High Priest,

the awful denunciations attached to violated vows of

perpetual celibacy.

sa The night after the fast, they used to knead pieces or balls of a dough which they called cancu. They par-boiled these in earthen kettles, till such time as they were collected into one great lump. Of this they made two sorts, one of which was mixed with blood, which they drew from between the eyebrows and nostrils of young children."

(Univ. Dis., vol. i., p. 271.)

How 83

similar is this ceremony to a rite practised by the idolatrous

Israelites when the fury of the Lord was ready to be poured upon them. " The children gather wood and the fathers kindle the tire, and the women knead the dough to make cakes to the queen of heaven,
and to pour out drink offerings unto other gods, that they may provoke me to anger, saith the Lord." ( Jer. vii., 18. See also xliv.,

15-19.)
84 The first dynasties of Incas were dignified with the names of the sun and moon. (Horn, de Orig. Gent. Amer., p. 105.
85 Marm. Incas, vol. i., pp. 25-27. 86 u Upon twelve mountains that surrounded the city of Cusco, there were twelve stone columns, dedicated to the sun, and answering to
the twelve months of the year." (Fab. Pag. Idol., vol. iii., p. 230.)

212

HISTORY OF INITIATION

Four Incas then made a progress through the city,
armed in the day with lances richly adorned, and at night furnished with blazing torches.87 The inhabitants nocked
around them, and hailed their arrival with loud and
joyful acclamations; for this auspicious ceremony was believed to purge the city from disease and calamity for the ensuing year. The lustration was closed with a grand procession to the temple of the Sun, where the secret rites were concluded by public sacrifices, accompanied with divination, which it was not lawful for the High Priest to reveal but to the Inca alone.88

87 Univ. Dis., vol. i., p. 272.

83 Marmontel has furnished a beautiful specimen of divination from

the setting of proach of ihe

the sun after a public festival, which foretold the apSpaniards. " The people and the grandees themselves

waited in silence without the court. The king alone ascended the

steps of the portico, where the High Priest was waiting for his sove-
reign, to whom alone the secrets of futurity were to be imparted. The heaven was serene ; the air calm and without vapours ; and for

the instant one might have taken the setting for the rising sun. On

a sudden, however, from the bosom of the Pacific Ocean, there arises

over the top of Mount Palmar, a cloud resembling a mass of bloody

waves ;

an

appearance

which, on

a

solemnity like

this, was

looked

upon as an omen of calamity. The High Priest shuddered at the

sight ; he comforted himself, however, with the hopes that, before the

sun should be quite gone down, these vapours would be dispersed.

Instead of that they increase, they pile themselves one upon another,

in appearance like the tops of mountains, and, as they ascend, seem

to brave the god as he approaches, and defy him to break the vast
barrier they oppose to him. He descends with majesty, and, sum-

moning forth to him all

his

rays, he

rushes

on

the

purple

flood ;

he

opens through it many a flaming gulf ; but then on a sudden the abyss

is closed. Twenty times he shakes off, as many times he seems to

sink under the burden. Overwhelmed awhile, then putting forth a

few scattered rays, he expends the whole remaining force of his

enfeebled light, tiH at length, exhausted with the struggle, he remains

A deluged, as it were, in a sea of blood.

phenomenon still more

tremendous showed itself in the sky. It was one of those luminaries

which were thought to wander without a plan, before the piercing eye

A of Astronomy had traced them in their course through the immensity

of space.

comet, resembling a dragon vomiting forth fire, and

whose flaming mane bristles round upon his head, advances from the

east, as if he were flying after the sun. To the eyes of the people it

appears but as a spark in

the

blue

firmament ;

but

the High Priest,

more inquisitive, fancies he can distinguish all the lineaments of that
portentous monster. He sees the flames issue out of his nostrils ; he

sees him flap his fiery wings ; he sees his flaming eye-balls pursue

the sun in his path from the zenith to the horizon, as if eager to get

up with him and devour him. Dissembling, however, the terror which

IN AMERICA.

213

The Peruvians, according to the testimony of Bar-

tholomew Las

Casas, were

as

innocent

as

lambs 89 ;

and

Columbus said, in a letter to the King of Spain, "I

swear to your majesty, there is not in the world a people

more gentle, or more inoffensive." The Inca was dis-

tinguished by the title of Whaccacuyas, the friend of the

poor.

the

prodigy

had

struck

into

his

soul,

*
Prince,'

says

the

Pontiff to

the

King,

'follow me into

the

" temple,'

&c.,

&c.

(Mann. Incas, vol. i.,

pp. 53, 54, &c.) 89 Las Casas was, however, a partial judge, for Acosta tells us,
that they " sacrificed young children from foure to six yeares old
unto tenne," in prodigious numbers, to avert misfortune and procure
blessings. "They did likewise sacrifice virgins; and sometimes
a sonne would be sacrificed to the Sunne for the life of the father."

(Hist. Ind., p. 380.) Thus, like the idolatrous Israelites of old, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils. (Psalm

cvi., 36.)

214

COROLLARY.

SUCH were the famous mysteries of idolatry. I have designedly omitted to draw any formal comparison, for the purpose of shewing what portion of the true Free-

masonry they retained amidst all their abominations,

because the intelligent Brother will not fail to discover the points of resemblance wherever they occur. It will

appear evident that all the mysteries of antiquity origi-
nated in some common source, which was familiar to

the primitive leader of every tribe that formed the nu-

cleus of great and

powerful

nations ;

because

the

cere-

monies, in all cases, bear a striking similarity to each

other. They were all funereal. The legend celebrated

the death and resurrection of some imaginary being in
whom, their affections were interested, and to whom

their devotions were directed to be paid. The rites

were always solemnized in lamentation, terminating in,

joy. Severe tests and probations accompanied the cere monial; and the initiations were performed in secret caverns, which were alike the object of horror and dread

to the uninitiated, and the vehicles of a mystical regeneration to the epopt which conferred personal and political distinction. Ablutions and purifications formed a dis-

tinguishing feature in all these institutions ; the efficacy
of which was not a little augmented by the supposed

virtues of amulets and talismans, that constituted a per-

petual shield of protection, under the cover of which, the enlightened candidate expected to surmount all the evils

of life.

The doctrines of the mysteries formed another, and

more decisive evidence of their common origin and

primitive application. They exhibit traces, which can-

not be mistaken, of the unity and trinity of the god-

head ;

of the creation and fall of man ;

the promise

of a

Mediator, who should expiate sin by a voluntary death ;

the doctrine of redemption by blood, of a vicarious sacri-

fice, by the efficacy of ^which, a single life would be

We accepted as a sacrifice for all.

discover, in these

remarkable institutions, fables which bear an undoubted

COROLLARY.

215

reference to the sin of our first parents, and their ex-

clusion from the garden of bliss, where they were origi-

nally placed by their beneficent Creator a sin produced

by the intervention of a serpent tempter ; to the first

fratricide, and the transactions of the antediluvian world ;

to the destruction of the human race, for their iniquities,

by the waters of a deluge, and the salvation of one just

family,

in

a

boat

or

Ark,

for

the

repeopling

of the

earth ;

to the Egyptian bondage, and the deliverance under the

conduct of the Jewish lawgiver ; to the sacrifice of Isaac,

and many other facts in the early history of the world,

which are of the utmost importance to the present and

future condition of man.

Above all, the reader will be struck with the remark-

able fact, that the abstruse doctrines of the resurrection

and a future state, which were not perfectly understood,

even by God's favourite people, were embodied in the

ceremonies of initiation ;

where the candidate not only is

figured to die and be restored to life, but the torments

of a place of punishment are broadly contrasted with the
happiness of the final reward which good men are sure

to enjoy after death.

These coincidences are remarkable, and leave no doubt

on the mind but they were learned by the planters of all nations, when the inhabitants of the earth dwelt together

as one family ; worshipping the same God ; participating

in the same privileges, and practising the same rites and

ceremonies. It is impossible that the above truths could

have been invented ;

they must

have been

derived ;

and

they could not have been derived from any system but that

which had been revealed from heaven to the first race

of men, before they were contaminated by error, or polluted by the abominations of an idolatrous worship. In
this view, the mysterious institutions of antiquity, ex-
plained in these pages, form a striking corroboration
of the Mosaic history and records. The evidence is extremely valuable, because it is undesigned. Nor did the heathen nations suspect when they were burning
incense to the spurious deities of their teeming pantheon, and fostering their secret institutions to uphold alike the supremacy of their religious and political creed, and
their own assumption of divine honours that they were
furnishing an unsuspected evidence to the cause of religi-

216

COROLLARY.

ous truth, which, at the appointed time, should uproot
their system, and triumphantly found the true plan of
human salvation on its ruins.

It will be seen that every system of mystery practised

throughout the world has been applied to religion and

How the

worship

of

the

1
deity.

diversified soever in

1 I subjoin, without comment, the following observations of the

learned and intelligent Faber, on the machinery of tbe Apocalypse,

which he thinks was borrowed from that of the mysteries. In this
Book, " we find the pure Church described as a woman clothed with

the

sun,

and

standing

upon

the

crescent of the

moon ;

while

a

cor-

rupted Church is exhibited to us, both under the image of a female

floating upon the surface of many waters, and under that of a harlot

using a monstrous beast as her vehicle. The former of these women,

when about to bring forth her first-born, is attacked by a monstrous

serpent, which spouts out, against her offspring, a deluge of water;

but the earth opens its mouth, and receives thie mighty inundation

into the centrical abyss. The latter of them, under the mystic name

of the false prophet, together with her bestial supporter, is said to bo,

at length, plunged alive into an infernal lake, burning with fire and

brimstone. I cannot but think it sufficiently clear, that the whole of

this machinery is

palpably

diluvian ;

and I believe it to have been

derived from that received imagery of the Patriarchal Church, which

by a corrupted channel was admitted into Paganism. It is impossible
not to perceive that the woman standing upon the crescent is the very figure of the Samian Juno, or of the Egyptian Isis, who were repre-

sented in a precisely similar manner with reference to the lunar boat;
that the attack upon the woman and her offspring, by the deluging

serpent, which is frustrated by the Earth's absorption of the waters,

is perfectly analogous to the attack of the diluvian serpent Python or

Typhon upon Latona and Horus, which is similarly frustrated by the

destruction of that monster; and that the false Church, bearing the name of Mystery, floating on the mighty waters, or riding on a

terrific beast, and ultimately plunged into the infernal lake, exhibits

the very same aspect as the Great Mother of Paganism sailing over

the ocean, riding on her usual vehicle, the lion, venerated with certain

appropriate Mysteries, and during the celebration of those -Mysteries, plunged into the waters of a sacred lake, deemed the lake of Hades.

I take it, that in the representation of the pure Church, an ancient

patriarchal scheme of symbolical machinery, derived most plainly from

the events of the Deluge, and borrowed with the usual perverse mis-

application by the contrivers of Paganism, has been reclaimed to its

proper

use ;

while,

in

the representation

of

the

false

Church,

which,

under a new name, revived the old Gentile demonolatry, the very

imagery and language of the Gentile hierophants has, with singular

propriety, been studiously adopted. (Rev. xii., xvii., 1-5, xix., 20.) I
need scarcely remark that I am speaking solely of the apocalyptic
machinery ; of this, the origin will still be the same, however we may

interpret the prophecies which are built upon it. The whole machinery

of the Apocalypse, from beginning to end, seems to me, very plainly, to

have been borrowed from the machinery of the ancient Mysteries : and

COROLLARY.

217

other respects, this is a broad and distinguishing feature

which undisguisedly pervades the whole. If the deities

were false, the system was false also ; and if the worship

was directed to its true fountain, the system remained

pure and uncontaminated by error or delusion : Religion,

so called,

was

the

ostensible

design

of each ;

for, how-

ever the world may have been infested and overrun by

idolatry, it has suffered little from professed atheism.

There is a principle implanted in the heart of man,

which prompts him to the belief and acknowledgment

of a superior and superintending power, under whatever

name he may have been personified ; endowed with

attributes of infinite knowledge and infinite wisdom.

Sophism

cannot

overwhelm

it ;

philosophy cannot suc-

ceed

in

erasing

it

from

the

heart ;

it is engraven there

in characters broad and deep, and spake the same lan-

guage to the ignorant savage, amidst trackless woods

and barren wastes, and to the proud philosopher of

antiquity, as it did to the learned Jew or the enlightened

this, if we consider the nature of the subject, was done with the

very strictest attention to poetical decorum. St. John, himself, is

made to personate an aspirant about to be initiated ; and, accordingly,

the images presented to his mind's eye closely resemble the pageants

of the Mysteries, both in their nature, and in order of succession. The

prophet first beholds a door opened in the magnificent temple of heaven ;

and into this he is invited to enter by the voice of one, who plays the

hierophant. Here he witnesses the unsealing of a sacred book; and,

forthwith, he is appalled by a troup of ghastly apparitions, which flit

in horrid succession before his eyes. Among these are pre-eminently

conspicuous, a vast serpent, the well-known symbol of the Great

Father ;

and two portentous wild beasts, which severally come up out

of the sea and out of the earth. Such hideous figures correspond with

the canine phantoms of the Orgies, which seemed to rise out of the

ground, and with the polymorphic images of the principal hero god,

who was universally deemed the offspring of the sea. Passing these

terrific monsters in safety, the prophet, constantly attended by his

angel-hierophant, who acts the part of an interpreter, is conducted

into the presence of a female, who is described as closely resembling

the Great Mother of Pagan theology. Like Isis, emerging from the

sea, and exhibiting herself to the eyes of the aspirant, Apuleius, this

female divinity, upborne upon the marine wild beast, appears to float

upon the surface of many waters. She is said to be an open and sys-

tematical harlot ; just as the Great Mother was the declared female

principle of fecundity ; and as she was always propitiated by literal

fornication reduced to a religious system, and as the initiated were

made to drink a prepared liquor out of a sacred goblet, so this harlot

is represented as intoxicating the kings of the earth with the golden
cup of her prostitution. On her forehead, the very name MYSTERY is

218

COROLLARY.

Christian. It displays a God of Nature who loves virtue and abhors vice, and teaches man the doctrine of personal responsibility. And this is the extreme boundary
of Natural Keligion. But Kevelation, which opens our
eyes to futurity, directs us how to worship this omni-
potent Being, so as to attain the reward, and escape the punishment consequent on our actions, and instructs us
how to walk in that pure and perfect way which leads
to eternal life.

inscribed ;

and the label teaches us that, in

point of character, she

is

the great universal mother of idolatry. The nature of this Mystery

the officiating hierophant undertakes to explain, and an important

prophecy is most curiously and artfully veiled under the very language

and imagery of the Orgies. To the sea-born Great Father was ascribed

a threefold state ;

he

lived,

he

died,

and

he

revived ;

and these changes

of condition were duly exhibited in the Mysteries. To the sea-born

wild

beast

is

similarly ascribed

a

threefold

state ;

he

lives,

he

dies,

and he revives. While dead, he lies floating on the mighty ocean,

just like Horus, or Osiris, Siva, or Vishnu; when he revives again,

like those kindred deities, he

emerges

from the waves ;

and,

whether

dead or alive, he bears seven heads and ten horns, corresponding in

number with the seven ark-preserved Rishis, and the ten aboriginal

patriarchs.

Nor is

this all ;

as

the worshippers

of the

Great Father

bore his special mark or stigma, and were distinguished by his name,

so the worshippers of the maritime beast equally bear his mark, and

are equally designated by his appellation. At length, however, the

first or doleful part of these sacred Mysteries draws to a close, and

the last or joyful part is rapidly approaching. After the prophet has

beheld the enemies of God plunged into a dreadful lake, or inundation

of liquid fire, which corresponds with the infernal lake, or deluge of

the Orgies, he is introduced into a splendidly illuminated region,

expressly adorned with the characteristics of that Paradise which

was the ultimate scope of the ancient aspirants ; while, without the

holy gate of admission, are the whole multitude of the profane, dogs,

and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and

whosoever loveth or maketh a lye." (Fab. Pag. Idol , vol. iii., p.

640-643.

FINIS.

JNO.W. LEONARD & CO.'S
LIST OF
MASONIC WORKS,
INCLUDING ALL THE
IN RELATION TO
FEEEMASONKY.
NEW YORK:
JNO. W. LEONARD & Co., 383 Broadway.
1855.

IMPORTATION
OF
EUROPEAJST BOOKS

JNO. W. LEONARD & Co., 383 Broadway, New York,

RICHARD SPENCER, 314 High Holborn, London,

Respectfully inform the friends of Masonic Literature

that they are prepared to execute all orders for single

books or quantities, by return of every mail steamer. This agency is confined to the purchase of Books apper-

taining to the subject of Freemasonry, a topic that has

called up hosts of readers, and justifies a department in

A the Book Trade.

large collection of Catalogues of all

the Masonic Books published, on sale in Europe and

America, may be found at their store, in Broadway-

additions to which are received by every steamer.

JNO. W. LEONARD & Co.'s
MASONIC PUBLICATIONS,

" These books are all published in uniform size and style, bound in blue cloth, with gold back and rich Masonic tooling ; and forwarded, post-paid, at Catalogue prices.

Anderson, James.

THE CONSTITUTIONS OF THE FREEMASONS, containing the History,

Charges, Regulations, &c., of that most antient and Right Worshipful

Fraternity. For the use of the Lodges.

London, 1723.

Republished verbatim, with illuminated letter, the ancient spelling,
engravings, music, arms of the Duke of Montague, &c., &c.
One volume, octavo, 100pp. 75 cents.
This is the first verbatim edition of the work ever published in America. It is the very Bible of the Freemasons, and meets an universal demand.

Apology for the Order of French
Masons.
Translated from the French of " a la Haye Edition, 1765."
In the Press.

Brown, Henry.

A NARRATIVE OF THE ANTI-MASONIC EXCITEMENT in the Western

Part of the State of New York. 18&6-7 and 8 and part of 1829.

Republished from the Batavia Edition of 1829.

In the Press.

By-Laws of the Lodge of Antiquity.

Republished from the London Edition of 1791.

In the Press

6
Calcott, Wellins. A CANDID DISQUISITION of the Principles and Practices of the
most ancient and honourable Society of Free and Accepted Masons ; together with some Strictures on the Origin, Nature and Design of
that Institution.
Dedicated by permission to the most noble and most worshipful Henry Duke of Beaufort, &c.
Republished from the old English edition. pp. 175 octavo, $1.
Clavel, J. B.
HISTOIRE PITTORESQUE, &c. Translated from the French. In Press. [Full 400 pp.] will be issued at the latter part of the
year.

Gustos, John.
THE SUFFERINGS OF JOHN CUSTOS, &c.
Republished from the London Edition of 1746.

In Press.

Cole, John.

ILLUSTRATIONS OF MASONRY. Selected by Brother John Cole, Past Master of Lodges No. 466, 249, 113 and 195, to which is prefixed the Funeral Service, and a variety of other Masonic Informa-
tion.

Eepublished from the London Edition of 1801.

In Press.

Dermot, Lawrence.
AHIMAN REZON, or a Help to a Brother, &c. Republished from the London Edition of 1756.

In Press.

Dalcho, Frederick.
ORATIONS.

In Press.

Dodd, William.

ORATION delivered at the Dedication of Freemasons' Hall, London, May 23, 1776.

Republished from the London Edition of 1776.

In Press.

7
Freemasonry for the Ladies.
Kepublished from the London Edition of 1791.

In Press.

Greenleaf, Simon.

A BRIEF ENQUIRY into the origin and principles of Freemasonry.

Republished from the Portland Edition of 1820.

In Press.

Harris, Thaddeus Mason.

DISCOURSES delivered on public occasions. Illustrating the principles, displaying the tendency, and vindicating the design of Free-

masonry. Republished from the Charlestown Edition of 1801.

In press.

Hutchinson, William.
THE SPIRIT OF MASONRY, with notes by George Oliver.
230 pp. $1.
Lawrie, Alexander.
THE HISTORY OF FREEMASONRY.
Republished from the Edinburgh and London Edition of 1804. In Press*

Lenning, C.

ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF FREEMASONRY. Translated and published

from the Leipsig Edition of 1822. Three volumes.

In press.

This is the most elaborate work ever issued upon the subject of Masonry. It is a library of itself. It has never before been
translated into English.

Morris, Rob.
LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF FREEMASONRY. 400 pages. $1. Six editions of this remarkable work (of which we own the copy-
right) have been published, and the demand is steadily in-
creasing.

8

Oliver, George.

1. A BRIEF HISTORY OF WITHAM LODGE.
2. THE HISTORY OF INITIATION. 3. AN APOLOGY FOR THE FREEMASONS. 4. THE HISTORICAL LANDMARKS. Two vols.

In press. In press. In press. In press,

5. HISTORY OF FREEMASONRY, from the year 1829 to 1841. 7& cts.

6. ACCOUNT OF THE SCHISM.

In press.

7. INSIGNIA OF THE EOYAL ARCH, &c.

In press.

8. A MIRROR FOR THE JOHANNITE MASONS, &c. 75 cts.

9. THE GOLDEN REMAINS of the early Masonic Writers. Five

vols.

In press.

10. SIGNS AND SYMBOLS.

In press.

. 11. THE ANTIQUITIES OF FREEMASONRY. $1.

. 12. THE STAR IN THE EAST. 75 cts.

. 13. THE MASONIC MANUAL (ASHE).

In press.

. 14. THE SYMBOL OF GLORY. 298 pages. $1. 15. A DICTIONARY OF SYMBOLICAL MASONRY. 293 pages. $1.

16. BOOK OF THE LODGE. 107 pages. 75 cents.

Preston, William.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF MASONRY. With Notes by Dr. OLIVER. Republished from the first edition. 400 pages. $1.

Webb, Thomas Smith.

THE FREEMASON'S MONITOR.

Republished from the first edition.

In press.

CONSTITUTIONS OF THE GRAND LODGE OF ENGLAND.

Republished from the London edition of 1853. With 13 Plates. In press.

Town, Salem,
A SYSTEM OF SPECULATIVE MASONRY. A new Edition, with Notes by the Author.

In press.

Vertot, M. L'Abbe De.
THE HISTORY OF THE KNIGHTS OF MALTA.
Republished in 5 vols., from the London edition of 1728. In press.

*NDINQ SECT.

2 6 1982

PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET
UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY

HS 131 05 1855

Oliver, George The history of initiation

