uQKffLWTREihVWmEaxcyAQ1

uQKffLWTREihVWmEaxcyAQ10

Obsession Depression and Demonic Oppression

Mark E Finn

uQKffLWTREihVWmEaxcyAQ18

Text copyright © 2016

Mark E Finn

All Rights Reserved

uQKffLWTREihVWmEaxcyAQ26

To the friends I’ve had

Along the way.

For their patience, love and support.

And to Linda, thank you.

uQKffLWTREihVWmEaxcyAQ35

Table of Contents

Preface

Introduction

Chapter 1 Obsession

Chapter 2 Depression

Chapter 3 Demonic Oppression

uQKffLWTREihVWmEaxcyAQ48

Preface

There are so many things I would like to express about the illness that I have. I believe that most of academia and science has been missing the link between psychoses and faith in God. I will touch on some of this as I write.

America has been spiraling free-fall for a very long time. Demographics show an increase in crime and psychiatric problems. Even though humanity has gotten so technologically advanced there remains a lot to be desired when it comes to counseling those enslaved by psyche illnesses and addictions. Within this short book I intend to show the reader his or her need of salvation from not only all the vices of humanity but from mankind’s greatest enemy: self. Only Jesus saves.

I believe this world in which we live was created. Everything in this life has a common denominator. It’s not “mother earth”; it is Father God the Creator of all things. Mankind’s destiny is not written in the stars, I believe it is written in a book. That book is commonly referred to as the Holy Bible and has been available yet overlooked and misinterpreted for over a thousand years.

The format of this book is quite simple, three chapters which cover the three things that I have found related to the illness. As you see, it’s not long; so read it through without stopping and then read it again with someone else. My prayer is that the God of all Creation will enlighten you to the unseen and grant you grace to be an overcomer in the end. For this purpose I give myself as your servant, a minister of reconciliation and slave of our Lord Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory forever.

uQKffLWTREihVWmEaxcyAQ60

Introduction

The roller coaster ride has not been enjoyable, not for me or anyone around me. You may be experiencing this. I hope you will seek the Lord Jesus Christ and lay your burden at His feet. He will save you if you trust Him. The answer to all your problems does not come suddenly. It takes a daily relationship with God but life will come to you instantaneously if you will believe on the Lord Jesus.

Mark E Finn

As I begin this book I realize two things:

1.      What I say may only matter slightly

2.      I may not be taken seriously

But I must write anyway. I kissed my first girl at six and married my last wife at forty. I have been married three times and not two as some think. I married the first time for sex and was divorced shortly thereafter. My second marriage was similar to the first, short lived. After the second marriage I tried to kill myself by drinking into oblivion. After I wrecked a truck I was first diagnosed with schizophrenia. At that time while in the psyche hospital they found that I had ITP. ITP is a disorder of the blood where for no apparent reason the platelet count drops to very low levels. The year was 1990 and I was going to psyche therapy and weekly to the oncology department of University Hospital in Syracuse, NY.

I had over a year in alcohol and drug rehab. In the early 80’s I was court ordered to go through a program at a place called the Freeman House in Waco, TX. A court order cannot keep an alcoholic dry. The State of Texas was lenient with me though and in ’84 I was given permission to return to NY. The fact that I am here today is a testimony to God’s grace and mercy.

I was born to an average working class couple. When I say average I mean my dad worked and they belonged to a local parish and did all the things acceptable to society. Children are born without a control panel; we can’t pick and choose our way through our formative years. What we have is what we have and that’s all there is to it. My memory fades in and out so I won’t write much about my childhood. I will say that I learned to read young. To many that is a plus; to me it proved to be detrimental. I found things to read under my parent’s bed that I had been better off without. Needless to say, “Kinsey’s Report on male sexuality” and Playboy were not good learning tools. That’s why they were hid under the bed, right? I will tell you this; if you have porn stashed under your bed, get rid of it before junior finds it and begins a cycle of sin that may never end. Give your heart and life to the Lord Jesus Christ and He will help you and your family.

So I grew up thinking that sex and porn were normal. I did find out otherwise but before I did I had become a slave to the sin. We might rationalize, which I have done; saying that at least I’m straight and not gay; but this is psychology at its worst and fosters even greater denial and hardness of heart. The sin of perversion is just that, a sin that needs to be judged. If I allow it to remain an idol in my life then I will be judged for it. If I forsake it and humble myself before God I shall be set free and forgiven for Christ’s sake.

This is not a book about me. It’s about an illness and the obsessions, depression and oppression that comes with it and may very well be the cause of it. Better men than I have written more precisely on the subject. I’m writing this because I have gone through it and every day I deal with it.

uQKffLWTREihVWmEaxcyAQ77

Chapter 1 Obsession

American society suffers with obsessions. Check it out, it seems like everybody has something that means so much to them that if it were to disappear tomorrow there would be a void so large in that life that they would immediately fall into despair not knowing how to deal with the loss. How can I print such a blanket application? Think about it, first of all if what I say is true then for you to see it as such will be of great benefit to you. Of course, you may deny that anything I say is true and continue living the way you do with no further thought of it and persecute me for saying something about it. Well, I can’t coerce you to believe; you have to be able to see it for yourself before you will accept it as truth. The vision you need is spiritual and the microscope used to show the details of life can only be given by Jehovah God.

Luke 8:11-15 “Now the parable is this: The seed is the Word of God. Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life and bring forth no fruit to perfection. But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience.” Obsessions can easily cancel out what ever truth you may have ingested. How? Things that obsess us can quickly become our reality and they may easily become an idol. We live within the terms of our beliefs. If what we believe becomes an obsession then, even if it has a factual basis; it can become a distraction from reality and make it so that you don’t have a fruit filled life.

Notice the effort given by people who are sold out to their beliefs. These people are usually successful at what they do. Being sold out is the turning point of doing something simply for leisure and making a living at it. But being sold out to an obsession may not be good. There is an element of being sold out that needs to be understood. When you sell out intellectually to something you put your all into it. Your whole being become absorbs by its meaning to you. You invest your money, your time and all your strength to it. There is no complacency with being sold out. Your every thought is in line with the goal and every moment is another opportunity to advance your position. Obsessions are like this, you get sold out to them. Being sold out is not a bad thing in itself because it can reap eternal benefits if you are sold out to Jesus Christ. If I am sold out completely to an ideal than all of my mental faculties, all my financial resources and all of me will be given to that cause. As I stated, this is not a bad thing in itself because if you are sold out to the right thing then you will reap benefits for eternity. Religion generally calls it adherents to give their all. Sports teams do the same and so do vocations. We live in a world where the winners have to be focused. You may not be the best at what you do but you can be successful if you stay focused. The God of all Creation desires our focus, but the things of this life consistently take front stage. Be careful that your love does not become your obsession. Beware of idols.

I use to use drugs and drink all the time. After a while of doing this my body became addicted to the stuff I was abusing. I became physically and emotionally obsessed by drugs and alcohol. At a very young age I had read ‘Kinsey’s Report on Male Sexuality’. I soon became engrossed in thinking that sex was a naturally occurring thing and it was ok to just have sex with everyone. This became an obsession. The religion of my father was taught to me and its precepts became my standards and my thoughts became obsessed by the institutes of that religion. My actions became dictated by my obsessions. If I wanted to escape what reality was to me, I used drugs and alcohol. If I lusted and had sex I felt compelled to do the right thing about it and marry the object of my lust. My obsessions where at the helm of my life and I became miserable without having a clue why. My mental health deteriorated because of this onslaught of confusion and medicine became a crutch. It was not until I realized that my obsessions could be classified as sin did I come to grips with it all. The word may arouse contempt in you, but sin was and is the major issue.

Sin is disobeying the universal Law of God. These Laws were conveyed to a chosen people many years ago but the rules and regulations of the Law are eternal. Obsessions become sin if they are placed at a level in our lives where they should not be. Obsessions may become idols and the little gods that control our every thought and emotion. God desires our willing subjection to Himself and nothing else. Unlike other little gods, we are not emotionally coerced into worshipping Him as God. Obsessions are idols and seek our worship too. In the ten Laws at the forefront of all the laws, we read that we are to worship no other gods before Him; the One true God. This command does not come from a dictator but from a loving compassionate; jealous God who from the beginning wanted the best for all who would be His servants. God knows that obsessions (idols) rob mankind of their proper position in God’s Kingdom. The truth is that the Earth is God’s footstool and He placed mankind here to care for it and share in its bounty. But all too soon in the existence of man was this plan and God’s will for man apparently spoiled. I say apparently because it only looked that way because God had a plan even before He formed the Earth to reunite mankind with Himself. There is only one thing worse than obsession; it is being offered a way of escape and not taking it. It’s to be offered freedom from sin and not accepting that freedom.

“Jesus answered them, Verily (truly), verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin. And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: but the Son abideth ever. If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.” {John 8:34-36}

God gives us many promises that we can hold to and cherish in this life. The Bible passage that I just quoted is one of those. Are you in bondage to sinful obsessions? The Lord Jesus Christ can and will set you free! Will you be free?

Chapter 2 Depression

Depression is something beyond the comprehension of most people. I find myself at awe with the thought of even writing about it. Having experienced it with all of its veracity and pain I write not with the intent to explain it but to give a look at it that maybe you have not seen.

A lot of people from all walks and classes of life have had depression at one time or another. Medical authorities have different classifications of it but I believe that all depression maybe good. Let me explain before you close the book. The human spirit is lost at birth. It enters this world but is separated from its Creator and does not have a clue as to what to do about it. Yet, within each and every one of us is the longing to know our Creator, but because of what is commonly referred to as the original sin; mankind needs to be saved and restored to God. Arguing about this matter will help no one at this point. The fact is that unlike the animal kingdom, mankind was created in the image of his/her creator God: man is a spiritual being. The spirit within you was born into this world lost and you may still be spiritually dead in this world without hope. But God’s grace is shed abroad so that whosoever will believe on His one and only Son Jesus; shall be saved.

Depression is not just an issue of the soul; it is a matter of the spirit of man. The soul of man is complacent about his position with God. The spirit of man is also quite careless about the things of God, wandering about seeking something to give it life. I sought for spiritual life in material settings. Depression was the relationship that my hungering spirit had with a complacent attitude. When you find yourself locked in obsessions you go into one of two modes: you either

1.            Become complacent about everything and accept the prognosis of the world. In short, you accept the world’s ownership.

2.            Or, you begin questioning things and seek your spiritual roots.

Mode #1 happens by default, option #2 begins once the Father of Light opens your eyes to see His glory. It’s when God calls you out of darkness and into His marvelous Light. Depression came when your spirit began yearning for the righteousness of God but everything around you was so far from it. ( Matthew 5:3 ) I wanted God but I could not find Him in any of the man-made things which bore His name. I wrestled with this emotion for a very longtime and still find myself subject to it at times, and this is ok because it keeps me humble. God wanted me to be His servant. God wanted to be real in my life. God wanted me to return to man’s rightful position in this world, that is; to be His servant. The human heart is completely void of understanding this scenario. God wanted to restore me. I had sought this without knowing what it was for years. Years of learning from God were necessary before I would accept it. Now I see it so clearly, God the Father of Spirits had sent His Son Jesus Christ to the world to be the atoning sacrifice that would pay for all my sin. At last, my mind, my body soul and spirit all agreed: God is my Father and He hates sin and rebellion but made a way of reconciliation through faith in Jesus Christ.

So depression in this sense is not a bad thing. Poor in spirit is depression, yet more than that it is the place where God meets us. Yet depression is a sad, not knowing what to do or where to go, and not knowing why; feeling of inadequacy. It is the Spirit of God prompting the spirit of man to believe. Being translated from the darkness and into God’s light is a complete life change. It is no wonder you may be depressed by the cultural change. Of course you will have to adjust. Your spirit will yearn for God at the point He awakens you. This yearning is at war with the physical desires and obsessions you once served. The battle that rages in any soul is a paradox of what we desire verses what is the pure undefiled will of God for you. The outcome is either salvation or chronic depression.

I won’t claim to be a specialist in this field but I have gone through it and here is my outlook on it. If you don’t follow God when He calls you a sense of depression begins to build in your soul. There is urgency to the call of God. The sooner you answer the call and follow Christ, the better off you will be. If you fall back and continue to live in sin, your spirit will grow increasingly depressed. Years may go by in this condition. If you find yourself there I want you to know something, the Lord Jesus is also your Mediator and waits for you to call Him for help. Lord Jesus cares for you and waits for you to return 100% to Him. As your Mediator, Jesus, pleads your case to the Father who in turn shows His grace to you and helps you. But you are in such a bad place right now and you ask, “How is God helping me”? The Father is leading you to repent of your sin. He called you and now wants your love and service. The spiritual scenario is enough to make you crazy inside and, indeed; it does. You struggle with unknown emotions; you are fighting a battle raging in your mind that nothing in this world will ever cure. Only your confession and subjection to Christ will help you. Will you confess and repent of your sin? Will you turn to the Father’s grace? I hope you will, I did. “The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.” (2Peter 3:9 KJV) The “to us-ward” in this text means you and I; those of us who are called by God according to His purpose.

I’m not saying that I believe that all mental illness happens only to God’s called and elect as a form of correction. What I am saying and believe is this; if you were to do a survey of patients with depression or bi-polar symptoms many of them would say they had believed on the Lord Jesus Christ at some point in their lives. If they have confessed Christ then at some point God had spiritually awakened them and now they flounder in the world not using their faith in Jesus to overcome. When we desire to live for our physical desires we grieve the Holy Spirit, that’s when depression begins. Our spirit had tasted that the Lord is good and now craves His righteousness but there is a conflict, our spirit wants God and our body wants sin. The conflict will only cease when we decide to rest assuredly in the promises of God and truly seek Him. So I believe that depression/ bi-polar disorder is a label given to a condition of your soul fighting the will of God. You may find yourself in this place, think about it.

uQKffLWTREihVWmEaxcyAQ104

Chapter 3 Demonic Oppression

Chapter 3 Demonic Oppression

“Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour: Whom resist stedfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world.” (1Peter 5:8-9 KJV)

This last section will prove to be the most difficult. Explaining the demonic oppression of a Christian is not easy. Not explaining it would be even harder considering that so many are experiencing it right now. So, we are told to be sober and vigilant because the devil is seeking to devour all that he can. This warning, though applicable to the whole world; is directed towards Christians. Our “brethren that are in the world” are those Christians who struggle with oppression also. This is nothing new but has gone on for many years. So why has the pulpits of America side stepped the issue for so long? We send our afflicted to secular professionals and sit back to watch them be devoured by a system that cares very little for godliness. If we really cared for our wounded brothers and sisters of the faith, we would anoint them with oil and ask the Lord to heal and forgive them. Yes, I believe that the demons want to destroy Christian lives.

As we continue to live in sin while calling ourselves Christians, we allow something to happen in our lives that may destroy us. Demonic oppression is destructive and will lead an individual to suicide. The devil and his cohorts will plague a person until they are insane with it and desire to be free of it. Unfortunately, one of the ways to be free from oppression is death; the other way is to submit to God and resist the devil. (James 4:7) The choice in the matter is ours in all cases. Will we seek God or allow the devil to torment us? I suggest we seek and submit to God.

Sometimes in the heat of the battle we say and do things we regret later. The Christian life is sometimes a battle and it’s not always in our minds, others become involved quite often. Mark 5 is an example of demonic possession. In this text we see one thing clearly; demons do not care at all for your well-being. Oppression is the same, when you are oppressed you can be sure that the demonic forces care little for you and yours. So you must be vigilant in not allowing the devil to gain a foothold in your life. “For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.” (Ephesians 6:12 KJV) Life has the greatest oxymoron in that while many struggle with the wiles of the devil there is a group of people who want to see the devil praised. This, my friends, is the dilemma. There is a false sense of freedom that comes with demon worship. But in the end there is no hope, regardless of all the riches and fame one might gain from demon worship, it is all temporal; life still comes to an end and then you will stand before God. It is the battle of Light and Darkness. If you find yourself in darkness then seek the Light; seek God.

If you are in darkness and demonic forces seem to rule your household, confess your sin to God and He will help you. Run into the Lord for security. The Word of the Lord is a safe haven and a strong tower against the enemy of your soul. Run to Jesus! Once you are back in the Word you must pray and have your faith built up in the Holy Ghost. The armor of God is then at your disposal. (Ephesians 6:10-18) You must put on the armor and be aware of its purpose. If you care for and love the people around you then you will see that putting on the armor is a necessity. Life is a battle between darkness and Light, but, the Light has already won the victory. All we need to do submit our lives to God and by faith in Jesus we too have the victory. When we allow temptation in our lives to become sin, we allow things into our homes that affect others. The demonic forces that torment you will also do the same to your family members. Do you see how you need to be strong in the Lord?

You must be sold out to Jesus. Not just once or twice a week but every day and in every way. When you are invited to Christ and you make that decision (or you recommit yourself) publicly, I hope you will be discipled. I hope that someone will stand by your side through life’s rough times when you may doubt, when you may lust to return to the old life. If you are alone and sold out to Christ, you know you’re not alone. The Spirit testifies to your spirit and there is peace to be had that can be found in no other place. When you come to know the power of His resurrection and the fellowship of His sufferings you have become sold out. Just being a master sales person and running around selling Jesus to everyone and anyone is not being sold out. Having the relationship with Him and holding Him in the highest esteem is a beginning. Confessing that He is your Lord is a beginning. The Christian life should be your goal right now. Jesus Christ is your victory over the devil. It’s not hard to cry out to Jesus, it is hard to hold onto your sins and not confess them and not receive forgiveness. Of all the hope I have, I hope you cry out to Jesus Christ today and confess Him as Lord and Savior. I hope today will be the start of your life, a life completely by and for GOD.