Rating
8

Qualities Eye Opening Engaging Concrete Examples

The Corona Generation
Coming of Age in a Crisis
Jennie Bristow and Emma Gilland | Zero Books © 2020

After schools closed for COVID, most analysis focused on how the quarantine affected young people's education and economic opportunities. In this brief study, sociologist Jennie Bristow suggests that the major issue could be how the forced break influences the emerging selfimage of generation Z, ages 15 to 22. Talking to high school and college students, Bristow shines a harsh light on taking away their education and social ties in the pursuit of safety. Her evocative writing makes sociological theories vivid, while her daughter, Emma Gilland, 16, contributes a candid, ground-level view.
Take-Aways
· The pandemic lockdown may significantly affect generation Z's development. · Each age cohort develops a distinct "generational consciousness." · The lockdown transformed young people's personal relationships. · Authorities used fear tactics to control health-related behavior. · School closings exposed the inconsistency of the public's regard for education. · Society should acknowledge the burdens generation Z must bear during the crisis.
Summary
The pandemic lockdown may significantly affect generation Z's development.
The COVID-19 pandemic transformed everyday life across the globe. Societies suspended activities at schools and universities and compelled citizens to enter lockdown. People faced a potentially life-threatening disease, endured isolation from their friends and family members, and, in many cases, dealt with income loss.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2021-02-06 07:37:03 CET

www.getabstract.com

"With the closure of schools, young people experienced the retreat of adults' general sense of care and responsibility."
Life in lockdown likely has a special, harsh impact on the teenagers and young adults of generation Z, those aged 15 to 22. Many stand at the border of adulthood, a time of transition in which young people traditionally gain new understandings of themselves and society. But the time-tested route toward such insights ­ a path that includes getting a formal education and crafting relationships with others ­ suddenly vanished into pandemic lockdowns.
Each age cohort develops a distinct "generational consciousness."
In the 1920s, the Hungarian sociologist Karl Mannheim identified the phenomenon of "generational consciousness," a feeling of affinity with one's contemporaries and a sense of divergence from one's elders. He argued that a generational consciousness arises in those on the edge of adulthood and results from young people's interactions with each other and from their engagement with general social and cultural trends. At its core, generational consciousness embodies a keen awareness of change ­ how things were before and how they are now ­ and a decision to opt for the new.
In times of rapid change amid crisis and catastrophe, such as during the World Wars, the social disruptions of the 1960s and the aftermath of September 11, 2001, the past and present collide violently, leaving a sharp break between the before and the after.
"While older generations seek to understand times of crisis by drawing on their experience of previous social shocks, the young have no basis for such comparisons and are forced to make meaning of the experience simply through living it."
Before the advent of the coronavirus pandemic, the young people in generation Z navigated an established route to adulthood. With the imposition of various lockdowns, they lost the conventional educational path and their social ties fractured. These deprivations and the callous way the adult world imposed them will likely have potent symbolic repercussions and play a major role in the image these young people form of themselves.
The lockdown transformed young people's personal relationships.
Adults have long worried about the impact of technology ­ such as television, social media and chat apps ­ on young people's development. But during the pandemic, the adult world enforced a new, radical dependence on technology, plugging young people into various forms of communication or entertainment devices, while depriving them of real-world interactions outside their immediate family. During normal times, knowledge of one's self blossoms, in large part, due to interactions with others. For those young people now on the border of adulthood, the comingof-age experience during the pandemic will be uniquely different from the experience of anyone older or younger.
www.getabstract.com 2 of 5
BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2021-02-06 07:37:03 CET

"The personal journey toward growing up is always a lonely one, which can only be shared by those going through it at the same age, in the same place, at the same time."
The conceptual distinction between physical and digital communication carries important clues about how the COVID-19 experience will influence this generation's mental self-image. The members of generation Z are digital natives; for them, digital communication is a fact of life. But in interviews with researchers, young people frequently used the words "normal" or "real" to contrast in-person encounters with the experience of communicating exclusively online and expressed nostalgia for physical interactions.
Although many maintained relationships with their intimates, such as grandparents or close friends, they feel a deeper sense of loss about casual interactions with a wider group of acquaintances.Such relationships generally play out in the context of school. The absence of that framework creates a situation in which interactions are more deliberate, thus eliminating spontaneous and incidental encounters. One 21-year-old respondent said he missed trading pleasantries with people he met throughout the day, such as the workers at the bagel shop he frequented.
"There was a sense of social worlds shrinking, as reliance on communication with those closest to you right now truncated the possibilities of developing relationships in the future."
Perhaps the most significant aspect of the fracturing of social ties is not the lack of contact but the manner in which adult society snatched it away. The school closings and lockdown of young people may turn out to have been a sensible response ­ it is still unclear how susceptible children are to the virus. But the symbolic dimension of the order to enter lockdown transcended the necessity of managing the disease's spread. It involved a "pathologization of the youthful, healthy body," casting young people as potential asymptomatic "super-spreaders," a threat to their teachers and older relatives. Such messages are likely to play a major role in the image young people form of themselves.
This means that parents should pay more attention to young people's exposure to the news. Even before the current crisis, parents and teachers worried about the impact of the media: the negative effects of multiplying online news sources, including the spread of rumors on social media; the biases of news sources; and the emergence of fake news. The pandemic has intensified these trends.
Young people absorb a lot of bad news, particularly statistics on COVID-19 cases and deaths, but have little access to a context that gives those numbers meaning. The lack of a common source of news ­ something societies had in the past ­ increases the difficulty for parents to provide that context. You can't offer a framework for understanding news when there is no general agreement on what constitutes that news.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2021-02-06 07:37:03 CET

www.getabstract.com 3 of 5

Authorities used fear tactics to control health-related behavior.
As with past initiatives aimed at curbing smoking or improving diet, public-health officials relied on a fear campaign to promote compliance with anti-coronavirus structures. Some of these efforts represent a response to claims that young people weren't taking the danger seriously and were continuing to crowd into restaurants and clubs. But the push to frighten young people into surrendering their social lives may have overlooked the degree to which generation Z and millennials already inhabited a world of constant crisis. They grew up in an era of endless disruptions and alarms: the financial meltdown, terror attacks, a succession of infectious diseases and the threat of global climate change. They have not lost their sensitivity to fear. Instead, they incorporate each new fear into a generalized anxiety about life.
"Confined to our houses, our only understanding can come from watching the numbers unfold on the TV and internet; and we have no daily contact with others to keep our fears and prejudices in check."
Observers noted that previous public-health fear campaigns produced "spillover effects." The targeted populations developed mental health issues related to feelings of fear and guilt. Society sometimes restricted health care services for those it deemed less worthy because of their habits.
In the case of COVID-19, such spillover effects can spread through the entire population, stoking dread and worry among healthy people that experts say may be out of proportion to the threat.
School closings exposed the inconsistency of the public's regard for education.
Policy makers have long rhapsodized in public on the importance of education. But when faced with a crisis that required hard choices, these same policy makers suddenly de-prioritized education. According to the World Bank, by early May 2020, school closings affected more than 85% of the world's children. It is not clear when schools will open again. The desire for safety triumphed over society's other values.
Hopefully, many students can make up the time they lost. But they will have absorbed the "symbolic significance" of the adult world's abandonment of education as a top priority.
"However diligent schools were being in setting work and communicating with students, they felt that they were having to work things out alone."
At the beginning, students reacted to the decision to close the schools with acceptance and even excitement, but as time progressed, they increasingly mourned the loss of their social lives and grew uneasy about how the closings would affect their future. Those who were about to finish high school felt the loss of important rites of passage ­ the graduation ceremony, the prom, the release of exam results ­ that traditionally mark the transition to adulthood.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2021-02-06 07:37:03 CET

www.getabstract.com 4 of 5

Society should acknowledge the burdens generation Z must bear during the crisis.
Once the pandemic has passed, society must come to grips with what it has done to young people. It can't simply wave away the problem by claiming that its choices were unavoidable. Adults must acknowledge that they imposed new challenges on a generation already facing significant social and economic problems.
Most attempts to classify generational identity offer only facile caricatures: baby boomers are selfish; millennials are "entitled snowflakes." But in the midst of an epochal event, understanding an age cohort's image of itself ­ its generational consciousness ­ matters.
"Interrupting transmission of the virus has meant, for them, interrupting a whole train of norms and aspirations to do with growing up."
In the case of generation Z, the pandemic provides the framing for their coming-of-age narrative. One plot point in that narrative ­ the adult world's seeming abandonment of the young ­ will carry major significance. In a single-minded pursuit of safety, adult society deprived the young of education and community, hobbled their employment prospects and left them with the burden of towering public debt. Adults need to recognize the strain of this psychological disadvantage.
On the other hand, accepting a narrative in which generation Z's lockdown experience emotionally scars its members forever can be as dangerous as trying to sweep the problem under the rug. The young will most likely recover the ground they lost in their studies, rebuild their relationships and rebound emotionally. But there is a potential for generational conflict if future generations blame their problems on stereotypical selfish boomers, who enjoyed postwar prosperity in their youth and bankrupted it in their retirement.
Adults need to have honest conversations with teenagers and young adults about the crisis, the society-wide impact of the disease, the choices society made in response and the implications of these actions for the young.
About the Authors
Jennie Bristow, an associate of the Center for Parenting Culture Studies, is a Senior Lecturer in Sociology at Canterbury Christ Church University. Her daughter Emma Gilland is a member of the Class of 2020.
Did you like this summary? Buy book or audiobook http://getab.li/41106
This document is restricted to the personal use of Jason Davis (jason.s.davis@accenture.com) getAbstract maintains complete editorial responsibility for all parts of this review. All rights reserved. No part of this review may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means ­ electronic, photocopying or otherwise ­ without prior written permission of getAbstract AG (Switzerland).
5 of 5
BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2021-02-06 07:37:03 CET

