c0

c9

THE HOLY STANDARDS

The

Creeds,

Confessions of Faith,

and Catechisms

of

The Eastern Orthodox Church

cV

THE HOLY STANDARDS

The Creeds,

Confessions of Faith,

and Catechisms

of

The Eastern Orthodox Church

Containing:

The Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed.

The Athanasian Creed.

The Chalcedonian Confession.

The Confession of Dositheus.

The Catechism of Peter Mogila.

And

The Shorter and Longer Catechisms

of St. Philaret of Moscow.

And an Appendix Containing:

The Synodikon of Orthodoxy.

St. Theophan the Recluse Press

Olyphant, PA, 2020

c1Y

The Holy Standards: © 2020 by Rev. Joshua Schooping.

The Catechism of St. Peter Mogila

Original Translation by Philip Lodvel, 1772.

Edited and Republished: J. J. Overbeck, D.D., London: Thomas Baker, Soho Square, 1898.

Further Edited and Republished: Rev. Joshua Schooping, Olyphant, PA: St. Theophan the Recluse Press, 2020.

The Confession of Dositheus

From: The Acts and Decrees of the Synod of Jerusalem: Sometimes Called the Council of Bethlehem: Holden Under Dositheus, Patriarch of Jerusalem in 1672

Translated and with Notes by J.N.W.B. Robertson, London: Thomas Baker, 1899.

Edited and with Notes by Joshua Schooping, Olyphant, PA: St. Theophan the Recluse Press, 2020.

The Shorter and Longer Catechism of St. Philaret of Moscow: Translated by R.W. Blackmore

From The Doctrine of the Russian Church, Aberdeen, 1845. The Longer Catechism, Edited and Arranged by Philip Schaff: From The Creeds of Christendom, Vol. 2, Harper & Row, 1877.

Both Catechisms further Edited and Arranged by Joshua Schooping; Olyphant, PA: St. Theophan the Recluse Press: 2020.

CONTENTS

Introduction

The Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed

The Athanasian Creed

The Chalcedonian Confession

The Confession of Dositheus

Introduction.

Decree 1: Of God.

Decree 2: Of the Authority of the Holy Scriptures and of the Church.

Decree 3: Of Predestination.

Decree 4: Of God the Creator and His Creation.

Decree 5: Of Providence.

Decree 6: Of the Fall of Man.

Decree 7: Of the Incarnation of the Son of God.

Decree 8: Of Christ the Mediator.

Decree 9: Of the Necessity of a Working Faith.

Decree 10: Of the Visible Church.

Decree 11: Of the Invisible Church.

Decree 12: Of the Divine Inspiration of the Church.

Decree 13: Of Faith and Works.

Decree 14: Of Free-Will, and of the Necessity of Grace for Spiritual Good.

Decree 15: Of the Sacraments.

Decree 16: Of Holy Baptism.

Decree 17: Of Holy Communion.

Decree 18: Of the State of Departed Souls.

Question 1: Of Qualifications for the Reading of the Scriptures.

Question 2: Against a Superficial Perspicuity.

Question 3: The Extent of the Canon of Scripture.

Question 4: Of the Honor Given to Icons and to Saints.

Epilogue.

The Shorter Catechism

Introduction to the Shorter Catechism.

Of the Creed.

Of the Lord’s Prayer.

Of the Ten Commandments.

The Longer Catechism

Introduction to the Longer Catechism.

Preliminary Instruction.

On Divine Revelation.

On Holy Tradition and Holy Scripture.

On Holy Scripture in Particular.

The Composition of the Catechism.

Part One: On Faith.

On the Creed generally, and on its Origin.

On the Articles of the Creed.

On the First Article.

On the Second Article.

On the Third Article.

On the Fourth Article.

On the Fifth Article.

On the Sixth Article.

On the Seventh Article.

On the Eighth Article.

On the Ninth Article.

On the Tenth Article.

On Baptism.

On Chrismation.

On Communion.

On Confession.

On Orders.

On Matrimony.

On the Anointing of the Sick.

On the Eleventh Article.

On the Twelfth Article.

Part Two: On Hope.

Definition of Christian Hope, its Ground, and the Means thereto.

On Prayer.

On the Lord's Prayer.

On the Invocation.

On the First Petition.

On the Second Petition.

On the Third Petition.

On the Fourth Petition.

On the Fifth Petition.

On the Sixth Petition.

On the Seventh Petition.

On the Doxology.

On the Doctrine of Blessedness.

On the First Beatitude.

On the Second Beatitude.

On the Third Beatitude.

On the Fourth Beatitude.

On the Fifth Beatitude.

On the Sixth Beatitude.

On the Seventh Beatitude.

On the Eighth Beatitude.

On the Ninth Beatitude.

Part Three: On Love.

On the Union between Faith and Love.

On the Law of God and the Commandments.

On the Division of the Commandments into Two Tables.

On the First Commandment.

On the Second Commandment.

On the Third Commandment.

On the Fourth Commandment.

On the Fifth Commandment.

On the Sixth Commandment.

On the Seventh Commandment.

On the Eighth Commandment.

On the Ninth Commandment.

On the Tenth Commandment.

Conclusion.

Application of the Doctrine of Faith and Piety.

The Catechism of Peter Mogila

Part I: Of Faith.

Of the Creed.

The First Article: Of God.

Of His Oneness and Triunity.

Of the Attributes of God.

Of God as the Creator.

On Angels.

On the Creation and Fall of Man.

The Second Article: Of Christology.

Christ in His Three Offices.

The Third Article: Of the Incarnation.

On Mariology.

The Fourth Article: Of the Passion of Christ.

On the Sign of the Cross.

The Fifth Article: Of the Resurrection of Christ.

The Sixth Article: Of the Ascension.

The Seventh Article: Of the Second Coming.

The Eighth Article: Of the Holy Spirit.

On the Gifts of the Holy Spirit.

The Ninth Article: Of the Church.

The Precepts of the Church.

The Tenth Article: Of the Sacraments.

The Chief Fruits of the Eucharist.

The Eleventh Article: Of the General Resurrection.

The Twelfth Article: Of the World to Come.

Part II: Of Hope.

Of Prayer.

The Lord’s Prayer.

The Preface: God’s Heavenly Fatherhood.

The First Petition: God’s Hallowed Name.

The Second Petition: God’s Kingdom Come.

The Third Petition: God’s Will Done.

The Fourth Petition: God’s Giving.

The Fifth Petition: God’s Forgiveness.

The Sixth Petition: God’s Leading.

The Seventh Petition: God’s Delivering.

The Conclusion: God’s Sovereign Glory.

The Beatitudes.

The First Beatitude: Poor in Spirit.

The Second Beatitude: Mourning Sin.

The Third Beatitude: Meek.

The Fourth Beatitude: Hungry for Righteousness.

The Fifth Beatitude: Merciful.

The Works of Mercy.

Seven of the Body.

Seven of the Soul.

The Sixth Beatitude: Pure in Heart.

The Seventh Beatitude: Peaceful.

The Eighth Beatitude: Persecuted.

The Ninth Beatitude: Faithful.

Part III: Of Love.

Of Virtue, or Good Works.

On the Cardinal Virtues.

Of Sin.

On Ancestral Sin.

On Voluntary Mortal Sin.

On the Seven Mortal Sins.

On Sins Against the Holy Spirit.

On Sins Bringing Down God’s Wrath.

On Venial Sin.

The Ten Commandments.

The First Commandment: Against Unbelief.

Of the Invocation of Saints and Angels.

The Second Commandment: Against Idolatry.

Of Icons.

The Third Commandment: Against Blasphemy.

The Fourth Commandment: Observing the Sabbath.

The Fifth Commandment: Honoring Parents.

The Sixth Commandment: Against Murder.

The Seventh Commandment: Against Adultery.

The Eighth Commandment: Against Theft.

The Ninth Commandment: Against Dishonesty.

The Tenth Commandment: Against Coveting.

Appendix: The Synodikon of Orthodoxy

c8E

Introduction

Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom:

and with all thy getting get understanding.

(Proverbs 4:7)

The present collection of official and approved statements of faith of the Eastern Orthodox Church is, as far as the present compiler is aware, the first time such an endeavor has been attempted in the English language. The reason for such a collection is quite simple: The instruction of the faithful and their edification unto all godliness. Although in these confused days there is an abundance of opinions, there are, sadly, a paucity of clear, thorough, authoritative, and readily available summaries of the Orthodox Faith that have both stood the test of time and also received the official approbation of the Church. The current climate, therefore, needs such a collection, for too many seek to present the faith in the light of their own wisdom. But, as we pray in the prayers after the Divine Liturgy to be delivered from the slavery of our own reasoning, it is the editor’s prayer that this collection of sacred Creeds, Confessions, and Catechisms will raise up a generation of faithful Orthodox Christians who, through meditating again and again on the holy truths contained herein, will be both well rounded and deeply grounded in the Faith that was once for all delivered to the saints, and able to withstand in the evil day the ever blowing winds of diverse and strange doctrines and destructive heresies.

​The attentive reader will note that the texts of the Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed, the Athanasian Creed, and the Chalcedonian Confession are each laid out in a way that facilitates meditation on the truths contained therein. Each phrase, purposely succinct, is packed with profound meaning that is all too easily overlooked when presented as dense prose. As such it is hoped that their content is here rendered more easy on the eye for the sake of the mind’s better attentiveness. It is also hoped that the reader will take advantage of the ample room for marking and note-taking. The Confession of Dositheus, the Shorter and Longer Catechisms of St. Philaret of Moscow, and the Catechism of St. Peter Mogila together provide a compendium of Orthodox theology and instruction on the key tenets of the Faith. By studying these faithfully one will be able to heed the instruction of St. Peter, to “sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you, with meekness and fear” (1 Peter 3:15).

c8Y

The Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed

I believe in one God, the Father Almighty, 

Maker of heaven and earth, 

and of all things visible and invisible; 

And in one Lord Jesus Christ, 

the Son of God, 

the Only-begotten, 

Begotten of the Father before all ages, 

Light of Light, True God of True God, 

Begotten, not made; 

of one essence with the Father; 

by whom all things were made: 

Who for us men and for our salvation 

came down from heaven, 

and was incarnate of the Holy Spirit and the Virgin Mary, 

and became man; 

And was crucified for us under Pontius Pilate, 

and suffered and was buried; 

And the third day He rose again, 

according to the Scriptures; 

And ascended into heaven, 

and sits at the right hand of the Father; 

And He shall come again with glory 

to judge the living and the dead, 

Whose kingdom shall have no end. 

And in the Holy Spirit, 

the Lord, 

the Giver of Life, 

Who proceeds from the Father, 

Who with the Father and the Son together is worshipped and glorified, 

Who spoke by the Prophets; 

And in one, holy, catholic, and apostolic Church. 

I acknowledge one Baptism for the remission of sins. 

I look for the Resurrection of the dead, 

And the Life of the world to come. 

Amen.

cBN

The Athanasian Creed

Whoever desires to be saved should above all hold to the catholic faith.

Anyone who does not keep it whole and unbroken

will doubtless perish eternally.

Now this is the catholic faith:

That we worship one God in Trinity and the Trinity in Unity,

​neither blending their Persons

​nor dividing their Essence.

​For the Person of the Father is a distinct Person,

​​the Person of the Son is another,

​​and that of the Holy Spirit still another.

But the Divinity of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit is One,

​​their glory equal, their majesty coeternal.

What quality the Father has, the Son has, and the Holy Spirit has.

​​The Father is uncreated,

​​the Son is uncreated,

​​the Holy Spirit is uncreated.

​​The Father is immeasurable,

​​the Son is immeasurable,

​​the Holy Spirit is immeasurable.

​​The Father is eternal,

​​the Son is eternal,

​​the Holy Spirit is eternal.

​​And yet there are not three eternal beings;

​​there is but one eternal Being.

So too there are not three uncreated or immeasurable beings;

there is but one uncreated and immeasurable being.

​Similarly, the Father is almighty,

​​the Son is almighty,

​​the Holy Spirit is almighty.

Yet there are not three almighty beings;

​​there is but one almighty being.

​​Thus the Father is God,

​​the Son is God,

​​the Holy Spirit is God.

​​Yet there are not three gods;

​​there is but one God.

​​Thus the Father is Lord,

​​the Son is Lord,

​​the Holy Spirit is Lord.

​​Yet there are not three lords;

​​there is but one Lord.

Just as Christian truth compels us

to confess each person individually

​as both God and Lord,

​so catholic religion forbids us

​to say that there are three gods or lords.

The Father was neither made nor created nor begotten from anyone.

​The Son was neither made nor created;

he was begotten from the Father alone.

The Holy Spirit was neither made nor created nor begotten;

he proceeds from the Father alone.

​Accordingly there is one Father, not three fathers;

​there is one Son, not three sons;

​there is one Holy Spirit, not three holy spirits.

​Nothing in this Trinity is before or after,

​none is greater or smaller;

​in their entirety the three Persons

​are coeternal and coequal with each other.

​So in everything, as was said earlier,

​we must worship their Trinity in their Unity

​and their Unity in their Trinity.

Anyone then who desires to be saved should think thus about the Trinity.

But it is necessary for eternal salvation

that one also believe in the Incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ faithfully.

Now this is the true faith:

That we believe and confess that our Lord Jesus Christ, God's Son,

​is both God and human, equally.

​He is God from the essence of the Father,

​begotten before time;

​and he is human from the essence of his mother,

​born in time;

​completely God, completely human,

​with a rational soul and human flesh;

​equal to the Father as regards divinity,

​less than the Father as regards humanity.

​Although he is God and human,

​yet Christ is not two, but one.

​He is one, however,

​not by his Divinity being turned into flesh,

​but by God's taking humanity to himself.

​He is one,

​certainly not by the blending of his Essence,

​but by the Unity of his Person.

​For just as one human is both rational soul and flesh,

​so too the one Christ is both God and human.

​He suffered for our salvation;

​he descended to hell;

​he arose from the dead;

​he ascended to heaven;

​he is seated at the Father's right hand;

from there he will come to judge the living and the dead.

​At his coming all people will arise bodily

and give an accounting of their own deeds.

Those who have done good will enter eternal life,

and those who have done evil will enter eternal fire.

This is the catholic faith:

one cannot be saved without believing it firmly and faithfully.

The Chalcedonian Confession

We, then, following the holy fathers, all with one consent teach men to confess

one and the same Son, our Lord Jesus Christ,

the same perfect in Godhead

and also perfect in manhood;

truly God and truly man,

of a rational soul and body;

coessential with the Father according to the Godhead,

and consubstantial with us according to the manhood;

in all things like unto us,

without sin;

begotten before all ages of the Father according to the Godhead,

and in these latter days,

for us and for our salvation,

born of the Virgin Mary, the Mother of God,

according to the manhood;

one and the same Christ, Son, Lord, Only-begotten,

to be acknowledged in two natures,

without confusion,

without change,

without division,

without separation;

the distinction of natures being by no means taken away by the union,

but rather the property of each nature being preserved,

and concurring in one person and one subsistence,

not parted or divided into two persons,

but one and the same Son, and only begotten, God the Word, the Lord Jesus Christ;

as the prophets from the beginning have declared concerning Him,

and the Lord Jesus Christ Himself has taught us,

and the creed of the holy fathers has handed down to us.

cG6

The Confession of Dositheus

From the Acts and Decrees of the Synod of Jerusalem

Sometimes Called

The Council of Bethlehem

Held Under

Dositheus, Patriarch of Jerusalem in 1672

Introduction.

Dositheus, by the mercy of God, Patriarch of Jerusalem, to those that ask and inquire concerning the faith and worship of the Greeks, that is of the Eastern Church, how it thinks concerning the Orthodox faith, in the common name of all Christians subject to our apostolic Throne, and of the Orthodox worshippers that are sojourning in this holy and great city of Jerusalem (with whom the whole catholic Church agrees in all that concerns the faith) publishes this concise Confession, for a testimony both before God and before man, with a sincere conscience, and devoid of all pretense.

cGS

Decree 1: Of God.

We believe in one God, true, almighty, and infinite, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit; the Father unbegotten; the Son begotten of the Father before the ages, and consubstantial with Him; and the Holy Spirit proceeding from the Father, and consubstantial with the Father and the Son. These three Persons in one essence (τρεῖς ὑποστάσεις ἐν μιᾷ οὐσίᾳ) we call the All-holy Trinity, — by all creation to be ever blessed, glorified, and adored.

cH2

Decree 2: Of the Authority of the Holy Scriptures and of the Church.

We believe the Divine and Sacred Scriptures to be God-taught; and, therefore, we ought to believe the same without doubting; yet not otherwise than as the catholic Church has interpreted and delivered the same.

For every foul heresy receives, indeed, the Divine Scriptures, but misinterprets them, using metaphors, and homonymies, and sophistries of man’s wisdom, confounding what ought to be distinguished, and trifling with what ought not be trifled with. For if otherwise, each man holds every day a different sense concerning them, the catholic Church would not by the grace of Christ continue to be the Church until this day, holding the same doctrine of faith, and always identically and steadfastly believing, but would be torn into innumerable factions, and subject to heresies; neither would the Church be holy, the pillar and ground of the truth (1 Timothy 3:15), without spot or wrinkle (Ephesians 5:27); but would be the Church of the malignant (Psalm 26:5); as it is obvious that of the heretics undoubtedly is, and especially that of Calvin, who are not ashamed to learn from the Church, and then to wickedly repudiate her.

Wherefore, the witness also of the catholic Church is, we believe, not of inferior authority to that of the Divine Scriptures. For one and the same Holy Spirit being the author of both, it is quite the same to be taught by the Scriptures and by the catholic Church. Moreover, when any man speaks from himself he is liable to err, and to deceive, and be deceived; but the catholic Church, as never having spoken, or speaking from herself, but from the Spirit of God — who being her teacher, she is ever unfailingly rich — it is impossible for her to in any way err, or to at all deceive, or be deceived; but like the Divine Scriptures, is infallible, and has perpetual authority.

cHD

Decree 3: Of Predestination.

We believe the most good God to have from eternity predestined (προορίζω) unto glory those whom He has chosen (ἐκλέγομαι), and to have consigned unto condemnation those whom He has rejected (ἀπεδοκίμασεν εἰς κατάκρισιν παραχωρῆσαι);[1] but not so that He would justify the one, and consign and condemn the other without cause (ἀναιτίως).[2] For that would be contrary to the nature of God, who is the common Father of all, and no respecter of persons, and would have all men to be saved, and to come to the knowledge of the truth (1 Timothy 2:4). But since He foreknew (προεῖδεν) the one would make a right use of their free-will (αὐτεξουσίῳ),[3] and the other a wrong,[4] He predestined (προορίζω) the one,[5] or condemned (κατάκρισις) the other.[6]

And we understand the use of free-will (τῆν χρῆσιν τοῦ αὐτεξουσίου) thus, that the divine and illuminating grace, and which we call preceding (προκαταρκτικήν),[7] being, as a light to those in darkness, by the divine goodness imparted to all,[8] to those that are willing (θέλοντας) to obey this — for it is of use only to the willing, not to the unwilling — and consent (συγκατατεθῆναι) with it in what it requires as necessary to salvation, there is consequently granted particular grace (ἰδικὴν χάριν). This grace co-operates (συνεργοῦσα) with us, and enables (ἐνδυναμοῦσα) us, and sustains (ἐμμόνους) us in the love of God, that is to say, in performing those good things that God would have us to do, and which His preceding grace (προκαταρκτική χάρις) admonishes us that we should do,[9] justifying and predestining (δικαιοῖ καὶ προωρισμένους) us.[10] But those who are not willing to obey, and consent (συγκατατεθῆναι) to grace; and, therefore, will not observe those things that God would have us perform, and that abuse in the service of Satan the free-will (αὐτεξουσιότητα) which they have received of God to perform voluntarily (ἑκουσίως) what is good, are consigned to eternal condemnation.[11]

But to say, as the most wicked heretics do and as is contained in the Chapter [of the so-called Confession attributed to Cyril Lucaris] to which this answers — that God, in predestining or condemning, did not consider in any way (μηδαμῶς) the works of those predestined or condemned, we know to be profane and impious.[12] For thus Scripture would be opposed to itself, since it promises the faithful salvation through works (διά τῶν ἔργων τῷ πιστῷ),[13] yet supposes God to be its sole (μόνον) author,[14] by His sole illuminating grace (μόνην τὴν φωτιστικήν χάριν), which He bestows without preceding works (προηγησαμένων ἔργων),[15] to show to man the truth of divine things, and to teach him how he may consent (συγκατατεθῇ) with it, if he will, and do what is good and acceptable, and so obtain salvation.[16] He does not take away the power to will (θέλειν)[17] — to will (θέλειν) to obey (ὑπακοῦσαι) or not to obey him.

But to affirm that the Divine Will is thus solely and without cause the author of their condemnation, what greater defamation can be fixed upon God? And what greater injury and blasphemy can be offered to the Most High?[18] We do know that the Deity is not tempted with evils (James 1:13), and that He equally wills the salvation of all (1 Timothy 2:4), since there is no favoritism of persons with Him. We do confess that for those who through their own wicked choice, and their impenitent heart, have become vessels of dishonor, there is, as is just, decreed condemnation. But of eternal punishment, of cruelty, of pitilessness, and of inhumanity, we never, never say God is the author, who tells us that there is joy in heaven over one sinner who repents (Luke 15:7). Far be it from us, while we have our senses, to believe or to think this; and we do subject to an eternal anathema those who say and think such things, and we esteem them to be worse than any infidels.

Decree 4: Of God the Creator and His Creation.

We believe the tri-personal God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit to be the maker of all things visible and invisible; and the invisible are the angelic Powers, rational souls, and demons, — though God did not make the demons what they afterwards became by their own choice, — whereas the visible are heaven and what is under heaven. And because the Maker is good by nature, He made all things very good whatsoever He has made (Genesis 1:31), nor can He ever be the maker of evil. But if there is any evil, that is to say, sin, that comes about contrarily to the Divine Will, in man or in demon, — for we do not acknowledge that evil is simply in nature, — it is either of man, or of the devil. For it is a true and infallible rule, that God is in no way the author of evil, nor can it at all by just reasoning be attributed to God.

cHV

Decree 5: Of Providence.

We believe that all things that exist, whether visible or invisible, to be governed by the providence of God. Although God foreknows evils, and permits them, yet in that they are evil He is neither their contriver nor their author. But when such evils are come about, they may be overruled by the Supreme Goodness for something beneficial, not indeed as being their author, but as engrafting thereon something for the better. And we ought to adore, but not curiously pry into, Divine Providence in its ineffable and only partially revealed judgments (cf. Romans 11:33). Albeit what is revealed to us in Divine Scripture concerning it as being conducive to eternal life, we ought honestly to search out, and then unhesitatingly to interpret the same agreeably to primary notions of God.

cJ3

Decree 6: Of the Fall of Man.

We believe the first man created by God to have fallen in Paradise, when, disregarding the Divine commandment, he yielded to the deceitful counsel of the serpent. And as a result ancestral sin (προπατορικὴν ἁμαρτίαν) flowed to his posterity; so that no one who is born after the flesh does not bear this burden, and does not experience the fruits thereof in this present world.[19] But by these fruits and this burden we do not understand sin,[20] such as impiety, blasphemy, murder, sodomy, adultery, fornication, enmity, and whatsoever else is by our depraved choice committed contrarily to the Divine Will, not from nature (ούχ ὑπὸ φύσεως).[21] For many both of the Forefathers and of the Prophets, and vast numbers of others, as well of those under the shadow [of the Law], as under the truth [of the Gospel], such as the divine Forerunner,[22] and especially the Mother of God the Word, the ever-virgin Mary, experienced not these, or such like faults;[23] but only what the Divine Justice inflicted upon man as a punishment for the [ancestral] transgression (παράβασιν), such as sweats in labor, sorrows, bodily sicknesses, pains in child-bearing, and, in fine, while on our pilgrimage, to live a laborious life, and lastly, bodily death.[24]

cJB

Decree 7: Of the Incarnation of the Son of God.

We believe the Son of God, Jesus Christ, to have emptied Himself (cf. Philippians 2:7), that is, to have taken into His own Person (ὑποσταάσει) human flesh, being conceived of the Holy Spirit, in the womb of the ever-virgin Mary; and, becoming man, to have been born, without causing any pain or labor to His own Mother after the flesh, or injury to her virginity, to have suffered, to have been buried, to have risen again in glory on the third day, according to the Scriptures (cf. 1 Corinthians 15:3-4), to have ascended into the heavens, and to be seated at the right hand of God the Father. Whom also we look for to judge the living and the dead.

cJK

Decree 8: Of Christ the Mediator.

We believe our Lord Jesus Christ to be the only Mediator, and that in giving Himself a ransom for all He has through His own Blood made a reconciliation (καταλλαγήν) between God and man, and that Himself having a care for His own is advocate and propitiation (ἱλασμὸν) for our sins.[25] Albeit, in prayers and supplications unto Him, we say the Saints are intercessors, and, above all, the undefiled Mother of the Word of God; likewise, the holy Angels — whom we know to be set over us — the Apostles, Prophets, Martyrs, Pure Ones, and all whom He has glorified as having served Him faithfully. We also count with those the Bishops and Priests, as standing about the Altar of God, and righteous men eminent for virtue. We learn from the Sacred Oracle that we should pray one for another, and that the prayer of the righteous avails much (James 5:16), and that God hears the Saints rather than those who are steeped in sins. And not only are the Saints while on their pilgrimage regarded as mediators and intercessors for us with God, but especially after their death, when all reflective vision being done away, they behold clearly the Holy Trinity in whose infinite light they know what concerns us. For as we do not doubt that the Prophets while they were in a body with the perceptions of the senses knew what was done in heaven, and so foretold what was future; so also that the Angels, and the Saints become as Angels, know in the infinite light of God what concerns us, we doubt not, but rather unhesitatingly believe and confess.[26]

cJV

Decree 9: Of the Necessity of a Working Faith.

We believe no one to be saved without faith. And by faith we mean the right notion that is in us concerning God and divine things, which, working through love (ἐνεργουμένη διὰ τῆς ἀγάπης; cf. Galatians 5:6), that is to say, by [observing] the Divine commandments (cf. John 14:5; Galatians 5:14; 1 John 5:3; 2 John 6 et al.),[27] justifies us with Christ;[28] and without this [faith] it is impossible to please God.[29]

cK4

Decree 10: Of the Visible Church.

We believe that what is called, or rather is, the holy, catholic, and apostolic Church, and in which we have been taught to believe, contains generally all the Faithful in Christ, who, that is to say, being still on their pilgrimage, have not yet reached their home in the Fatherland.[30] But we do not in any wise confound this Church which is on its pilgrimage with that which is in the Fatherland, because it may be, as some of the heretics say, that the members of the two are sheep of God, the Chief Shepherd (cf. Psalm 95:7), and hallowed by the same Holy Spirit. For that is absurd and impossible, since the one is yet militant, and on its journey; and the other is triumphant, and settled in the Fatherland, and has received the prize. Since a mortal man cannot universally and perpetually be head of this catholic Church, our Lord Jesus Christ Himself is head, and Himself holding the rudder is at the helm in the governing of the Church, through the Holy Fathers. And, therefore, the Holy Spirit has appointed Bishops as leaders and shepherds over particular Churches, that are real Churches, and consist of real members [of the catholic Church]; who being not at all [appointed] by abuse, but properly, authorities and heads, look unto the Author and Finisher of our Salvation (cf. Hebrews 2:10-11; 12:2), and refer to Him what they do in their capacity as heads.

But forasmuch as among their other impieties, the Calvinists have imagined this also, that the simple Priest and the High Priest [i.e. Bishop] are perhaps the same; and that there is no necessity for High Priests, and that the Church may be governed by some Priests; and that not a High Priest [only], but a Priest also is able to ordain a Priest, and a number of Priests to ordain a High Priest; and affirm in lofty language that the Eastern Church assents to this wicked notion — for which purpose the Tenth Chapter was written by Cyril — we explicitly declare according to the mind which has obtained from the beginning in the Eastern Church: —

That the dignity of the Bishop is so necessary in the Church, that without him, neither Church nor Christian could either be or be spoken of. For he, as a successor of the Apostles, having received in continued succession by the imposition of hands and the invocation of the All-Holy Spirit the grace that is given him of the Lord of binding and loosing, is a living image of God upon the earth, and by a most ample participation of the operation of the Holy Spirit, who is the chief functionary,[31] is a fountain of all the Mysteries [Sacraments] of the catholic Church, through which we obtain salvation.

And he is, we affirm, as necessary to the Church as breath is to man, or the sun to the world. Whence it has also been elegantly said by some in commendation of the dignity of the High Priesthood, “What God is in the heavenly Church of the first-born (cf. Hebrews 12:23), and the sun in the world, that every High Priest is in his own particular Church, as through him the flock is enlightened, and nourished, and becomes the temple of God” (cf. Ephesians 2:21).

And that this great mystery and dignity of the Episcopate has descended unto us by a continued succession is manifest.[32] For since the Lord has promised to be with us always, although He is with us by other means of grace and Divine operations, yet in a more eminent manner does He, through the Bishop as chief functionary, make us His own and dwell with us, and through the divine Mysteries is united with us; of which the Bishop is the first minister, and chief functionary, through the Holy Spirit, and suffers us not to fall into heresy. And, therefore St. John of Damascus, in his Fourth Epistle to the Africans, said that the catholic Church is everywhere committed to the care of the Bishops; and that Clement, the first Bishop of the Romans, and Evodius at Antioch, and Mark at Alexandria, were successors of Peter is acknowledged. Also that the divine Andrew seated Stachys on the Throne of Constantinople, in his own stead; and that in this great holy city of Jerusalem our Lord Himself appointed James, and that after James another succeeded, and then another, until our own times. And, therefore, Tertullian in his Epistle to Papianus called all Bishops the Apostles’ successors. To their succession to the Apostles’ dignity and authority Eusebius, the [friend] of Pamphilus, testified, and all the Fathers testify, of whom it is needless to give a list; and this the common and most ancient custom of the catholic Church confirms.

And that the dignity of the Episcopate differs from that of the simple Priest, is clear. For the Priest is ordained by the Bishop, but a Bishop is not ordained by a Priest, but by two or three High Priests, as the Apostolic Canon directs.[33] And the Priest is chosen by the Bishop, but the High Priest is not chosen by the Priests or Presbyters, nor is he chosen by secular Princes, but by the Synod of the Primatial Church of that country, in which is situated the city that is to receive the ordinand, or at least by the Synod of the Province in which he is to become a Bishop. Or, if the city should choose him, it does not do this absolutely; but the election is referred to the Synod. And if it appears that he has obtained this agreeably to the Canons, the Elect is advanced by ordination by the Bishops, with the invocation of the All-holy Spirit; but if not, he is advanced whom the Synod chooses.

The Priest, indeed, retains to himself the authority and grace of the Priesthood, which he has received; but the Bishop imparts it to others also. And the one having received the dignity of the Priesthood from the Bishop, can only perform Holy Baptism, and Anoint the Sick, minister sacrificially the unbloody Sacrifice (ἱερουργεῖ τὴν ἀναίμακτον θυσίαν), and impart to the people the All-holy Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, anoint the baptized with the Holy Chrism,[34] crown the Faithful legally marrying, pray for the sick, and that all men may be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth (cf. 1 Timothy 2:4), and especially for the remission and forgiveness of the sins of the Faithful, living and dead. And if he be eminent for experience and virtue, receiving his authority from the Bishop, he directs those Faithful that come unto him, and guides them into the way of possessing the heavenly kingdom, and is appointed a preacher of the Sacred Gospel.

The High Priest is also the minister of all these, since he is in fact, as has been said before, the fountain of the Divine Mysteries and graces, through the Holy Spirit, and he alone consecrates the Holy Chrism. And the ordinations of all orders and degrees in the Church are proper to him; and in a primary and highest sense he binds and looses, and his sentence is approved by God, as the Lord promised (Matthew 16:19). And he preaches the Sacred Gospel, and contends for the Orthodox faith, and those that refuse to hear he casts out of the Church as heathens and publicans (cf. Matthew 18:17), and he puts heretics under excommunication and anathema, and lays down his own life for the sheep (cf. John 10:11). From which it is clear, that without contradiction the Bishop differs from the simple Priest, and that without him all the Priests in the world could not exercise the pastorate in the Church of God, or govern it at all.

But it is well said by one of the Fathers, that it is not easy to find a heretic that has understanding. For when these forsake the Church, they are forsaken by the Holy Spirit, and there remains in them neither understanding nor light, but only darkness and blindness. For if such had not happened to them, they would not have opposed things that are most plain; among which is the truly great mystery of Episcopacy, which is taught by Scripture, written of, and witnessed to, both by all Ecclesiastical history and the writings of holy men, and always held and acknowledged by the catholic Church.

Decree 11: Of the Invisible Church.

We believe that members of the catholic Church are all the Faithful, and only the Faithful; who, truly having received the blameless Faith of the Savior Christ, from Christ Himself, and the Apostles, and the Holy Ecumenical Synods, adhere to the same without wavering; although some of them may be guilty of all manner of sins. For unless the Faithful, even when living in sin, were members of the Church, they could not be judged by the Church. But now being judged by her, and called to repentance, and guided into the way of her salutary precepts, though they may be still defiled with sins, for this only, that they have not fallen into despair, and that they cleave to the catholic and Orthodox faith, they are, and are regarded as, members of the catholic Church.

cKP

Decree 12: Of the Divine Inspiration of the Church.

We believe that the catholic Church is taught by the Holy Spirit. For he is the true Paraclete; whom Christ sends from the Father (cf. John 25:26), to teach the truth (cf. John 26:13), and to drive away darkness from the minds of the Faithful. The teaching of the Holy Spirit, however, does not directly illuminate the Church, but through the holy Fathers and Leaders of the catholic Church. For all Scripture is, and is called, the word of the Holy Spirit; not that it was spoken directly by Him, but that it was spoken by Him through the Apostles and Prophets; so also the Church is taught indeed by the Life-giving Spirit, but through the medium of the holy Fathers and Teachers (whose rule is acknowledged to be the Holy and Ecumenical Synods; for we shall not cease to say this ten thousand times); and, therefore, not only are we persuaded, but do profess as true and undoubtedly certain, that it is impossible for the catholic Church to err, or at all be deceived, or ever to choose falsehood instead of truth. For the All-holy Spirit continually operating through the holy Fathers and Leaders faithfully ministering, delivers the Church from error of every kind.

cKY

Decree 13: Of Faith and Works.

We believe a man is not justified through faith simply alone (πίστεως ἁπλῶς μόνις), but through faith which works through love (cf. Galatians 5:6), that is to say, through faith and works.[35] But that faith, fulfilling the function of a hand, lays hold on the righteousness which is in Christ, and applies it [extrinsically][36] unto us for salvation,[37] we know to be far from all Orthodoxy.[38] For faith so understood would be possible in all, and so none could miss salvation,[39] which is obviously false.[40] But on the contrary,[41] we rather believe that it is not merely the faith’s referent,[42] but the faith which is in us,[43] that justifies us through works,[44] with Christ.[45] And we regard works not as witnesses certifying our calling,[46] but as being fruits in themselves,[47] through which faith becomes efficacious,[48] and as in themselves meriting, through the Divine promises (cf. 2 Corinthians 5:10), that each of the Faithful may receive what is done through his own body, whether it be good or bad.[49]

cM6

Decree 14: Of Free-Will, and of the Necessity of Grace for Spiritual Good.

We believe man in falling by the [original] transgression to have become comparable and like unto the beasts, that is, to have been utterly undone, and to have fallen from his perfection and impassibility, yet not to have lost the nature and power which he had received from the supremely good God.[50] For otherwise he would not be rational, and consequently not man; but to have the same nature in which he was created, and the same power of his nature, that is free-will, living and operating: so as to be by nature able to choose and do what is good, and to avoid and hate what is evil.[51] For it is absurd to say that the nature which was created good by Him who is supremely good lacks the power of doing good. For this would be to make that nature evil — and what could be more impious than that?[52] For the power of working depends upon nature, and nature upon its author, although in a different manner. And that a man is able by nature to do what is good, even our Lord Himself intimates, saying, even the Gentiles love those that love them (Matthew 5:46; Luke 6:32). But this is taught most plainly by Paul also, and elsewhere expressly, saying in so many words, “The Gentiles which have no law do by nature the things of the law” (Romans 2:14). From which it is also clear that the good which a man may do cannot truly be sin. For it is impossible that what is good can be evil. Although, being done by nature only, and tending to form the natural character of the doer, but not the spiritual,[53] it does not contribute to salvation thus alone without faith,[54] nor yet indeed unto condemnation, for it is not possible that good, as such, can be the cause of evil. But in the regenerated, what is wrought by grace, and with grace, makes the doer perfect, and renders him worthy of salvation.[55]

A man, therefore, before he is regenerated, is able by nature to incline to what is good, and to choose and work moral good.[56] But for the regenerated to do spiritual good — for the works of the believer being contributory to salvation[57] and wrought by supernatural grace are properly called spiritual — it is necessary that he be guided and preceded by grace, as has been said in treating of predestination; so that he is not able of himself to do any work worthy of a Christian life, although he has it in his own power to will, or not to will, to co-operate with grace.

cMF

Decree 15: Of the Sacraments.

We believe that there are in the Church Evangelical Mysteries [i.e., Sacraments of the Gospel Dispensation], and that they are seven. For a less or a greater number of the Mysteries we have not in the Church; since any number of the Mysteries other than seven is the product of heretical madness. And the seven of them were instituted in the Sacred Gospel, and are gathered from the same, like the other dogmas of the catholic Faith. For in the first place our Lord instituted Holy Baptism by the words, “Go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit” (Matthew 28:19); and by the words, “He that believes and is baptized shall be saved, but he that does not believe shall be condemned” (Mark 16:16).

And that of Chrismation, that is to say, of the Holy Myron or Holy Chrism, by the words, “But you — tarry in the city of Jerusalem, until you are endued with power from on high” (Luke 24:49). With which they were endued by the coming of the Holy Spirit, and this the Mystery of Chrismation signifies; concerning which Paul also discourses (2 Corinthians 1:22), and Dionysius the Areopagite more explicitly (The Ecclesiastical Hierarchy, chapters 2 and 4).

And the Priesthood by the words, “This do for My Memorial” (Luke 22:19); and by the words, “Whatever you bind and loose upon the earth shall be bound and loosed in the heavens” (Matthew 18:18).

And the unbloody Sacrifice by the words, “Take, eat; This is My Body” (Matthew 26:26; Mark 14:22; cf. Luke 22:19; 1 Corinthians 11:24); and, “Drink of It, all of you; This is My Blood of the New Covenant” (Matthew 26:27; cf. Mark 14:24; Luke 22:20; 1 Corinthians 11:25); and by the words, “Unless you eat the Flesh of the Son of Man, you do not have life in yourselves” (John 6:53).

And Marriage, when, having recited the things which had been spoken thereof in the Old Testament, He, as it were, set His seal thereto by the words, “Those whom God hath joined together, do not let man put asunder” (Matthew 19:6), and this the divine Apostle also calls a great Mystery (Ephesians 5:32).

And Absolution, with which is joined sacramental confession, by the words, “Whoever’s sins you remit, they are remitted unto them; and whoever’s sins you retain, they are retained” (John 20:23); and by the words, “Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish” (Luke 13:3, 5).

And lastly, the Holy Oil or Prayer-Oil (Oil of Anointing) is spoken of in Mark (6:13), and is expressly witnessed to by the Lord’s brother (James 5:14).

And the Mysteries consist of something natural, and of something supernatural;[58] and are not bare signs of the promises of God. For then they would not differ from circumcision — and what [notion] could be worse? And we acknowledge them to be, of necessity, efficient means of grace to the receivers. But we reject, as alien to Christian doctrine, the notion that the integrity of the Mystery requires the use of the earthly thing [i.e. depends upon its reception]; for this is contrary to the Mystery of the Offering [i.e. the Sacrament of the Eucharist], which being instituted by the Substantial Word, and hallowed by the invocation of the Holy Spirit, is perfected by the presence of the thing signified (σημαινομένου), specifically, of the Body and Blood of Christ. And the perfecting of it necessarily precedes its use. For if it were not perfect before its use, he that receives it wrongly could not eat and drink judgment unto himself (1 Corinthians 11:26-29); since he would be partaking of mere bread and wine. But now, he that partakes unworthily eats and drinks judgment unto himself; so that not in its use, but even before its use, the Mystery of the Eucharist has its perfection. Moreover, we reject as something abominable and pernicious the notion that when faith is weak the integrity of the Mystery is impaired. For heretics who renounce their heresy and join the catholic Church are received by the Church; although they received their valid Baptism with weakness of faith. Wherefore, when they afterwards become possessed of the perfect faith, they are not again baptized.

cMY

Decree 16: Of Holy Baptism.

We believe Holy Baptism, which was instituted by the Lord, and is conferred in the name of the Holy Trinity, to be of the highest necessity. For without it none is able to be saved, as the Lord says, “Whoever is not born of water and of the Spirit, shall in no way enter into the Kingdom of the Heavens” (John 3:5). And, therefore, it is necessary even for infants, since they also are subject to the original sin (τῇ ἀρχεγόνῳ ἁμαρτία), and without Baptism are not able to obtain its remission.[59] Which the Lord showed when he said, not of some only, but simply and absolutely, “Whoever is not born [again],” which is the same as saying, “All that after the coming of Christ the Savior would enter into the Kingdom of the Heavens must be regenerated.” And forasmuch as infants are men, and as such need salvation, needing salvation they need also Baptism. And those that are not regenerated, since they have not received the remission of the ancestral sin (τῆς προπατορικῆς ἁμαρτίας), are, of necessity, subject to the shame of sin’s punishment, and consequently cannot without Baptism be saved; so that even infants ought, of necessity, be baptized. Moreover, infants are saved, as is said in Matthew (Matthew 19:14); but he that is not baptized is not saved. And consequently even infants must of necessity be baptized. And in Acts (Acts 8:12; 16:33) it is said that the whole household was baptized, and consequently the infants. To this the ancient Fathers also witness explicitly, and among them Dionysius (The Ecclesiastical Hierarchy, chapter 7, part 3, section 11); and Justin in his fifty-sixth Question, who says expressly, “And they are guaranteed the benefits of Baptism by the faith of those that bring them to Baptism.”[60] And Augustine says that it is an apostolic tradition, that children are saved through Baptism;[61] and in another place, “The Church gives to babes the feet of others, that they may come; and the hearts of others, that they may believe; and the tongues of others, that they may promise;”[62] and in another place, “Our mother, the Church, furnishes them with a particular heart.”[63]

Now the matter (ὕλης) of Baptism is pure water, and no other liquid. And it is performed by the Priest only, or in a case of unavoidable necessity, by another person, provided he is Orthodox, and has the intention proper to Divine Baptism. And the effects of Baptism are, to speak concisely, firstly, the forgiveness (ἄφεσις) of the ancestral transgression (προπατορικοῦ πλημμελήματος), and of any sins of any kind that the baptized may have committed. Secondly, it delivers him from the eternal punishment, to which he was liable, as well for original sin (τὸ ἄρχέγονον ἁμάρτημα) and for mortal sins he may have individually committed. Thirdly, it gives to the person immortality; for in justifying (δικαιοῦν) them from past sins,[64] it makes them temples of God.[65]

And it may not be said, that any sin is not washed away through Baptism, which may have been previously committed, but to remain, though not imputed (οὐκ ἰσχύειν δέ; Latin: at non imputare).[66] For that would indeed be the height of impiety, and a denial, rather than a confession of piety. For, truly, all sin existing, or committed before Baptism, is blotted out (ἀφανίζεται), and is to be regarded as never existing or committed. For the forms of Baptism, and on either hand all the words that precede and that perfect Baptism, do indicate a perfect cleansing (τὴν τελείαν κάθαρσιν). And the same thing even the very names of Baptism do signify. For if Baptism is by the Spirit and by fire (Matthew 3:11), it is clear that it is in all a perfect cleansing; for the Spirit cleanses perfectly. If it is light (Hebrews 6:4), it dispels the darkness. If it is regeneration (Titus 3:5), old things are passed away. And what are these except sins? If the baptized puts off the old man (Colossians 3:9), then sin also. If he puts on Christ (Galatians 3:27), then in effect he becomes free from sin through Baptism. For God is far from sinners. This Paul also teaches more plainly, saying: “For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so also by one man's obedience many will be made righteous” (Romans 5:19). And if righteous, then free from sin. For it is not possible for life and death to be in the same person. If Christ truly died, then remission of sin through the Spirit is true also.

Hence it is evident that all who are baptized and fall asleep while infants are undoubtedly saved, being predestined through the death of Christ. Forasmuch as they are without the sin that is common to all, because delivered from it by the Divine laver, and without any of their own, because as infants they are incapable of committing sin; — and consequently are saved. Moreover, Baptism imparts an indelible character, as does also the Priesthood. For as it is impossible for any one to receive twice the same order of the Priesthood, so it is impossible for any once rightly baptized, to be again baptized, although he should fall even into myriads of sins, or even into actual apostasy from the Faith. For when he is willing to return unto the Lord, he receives again through the Mystery of Confession the adoption of a son, which he had lost.

cN9

Decree 17: Of Holy Communion.

We believe the All-holy Mystery of the Sacred Eucharist, which we have enumerated above, fourth in order, to be that which our Lord delivered in the night in which He gave Himself up for the life of the world.[67] For taking bread, and blessing, He gave to His Holy Disciples and Apostles, saying: “Take, eat; This is My Body” (Matthew 26:26). And taking the chalice, and giving thanks, He said: “Drink of It, all of you; This is My Blood, which for you is being poured out, for the remission of sins” (Matthew 26:28).

In the celebration whereof we believe the Lord Jesus Christ to be present, not typically, nor figuratively, nor by superabundant grace, as in the other Mysteries, nor by a bare presence, as some of the Fathers have said concerning Baptism, or by impanation, so that the Divinity of the Word is united to the set forth bread of the Eucharist hypostatically, as the followers of Luther most ignorantly and wretchedly suppose,[68] but truly and really, so that after the consecration of the bread and of the wine, the bread is changed (μεταβάλλεσθαι), transubstantiated (μετουσιοῦσθαι), transformed (μεταποιεῖσθαι), and converted (μεταῤῥυθμίζεσθαι) into the true Body Itself of the Lord, which was born in Bethlehem of the ever-Virgin, was baptized in the Jordan, suffered, was buried, rose again, was received up, sits at the right hand of the God and Father, and is to come again in the clouds of Heaven; and the wine is transformed (μεταποιεῖσθαι) and transubstantiated (μετουσιοῦσθαι) into the true Blood Itself of the Lord, which as He hung upon the Cross, was poured out for the life of the world (John 6:51).

Further, that after the consecration of the bread and of the wine, there no longer remains the substance (οὐσίαν) of the bread and of the wine, but the Body Itself and the Blood of the Lord, under the species (εἴδει) and form (τύπῳ) of bread and wine;[69] that is to say, under the accidents (συμβεβηκόσιν) of the bread.[70]

Further, that the all-pure Body Itself, and Blood of the Lord is imparted (μεταδίδοσθαι), and enters into the mouths and stomachs of the communicants, whether pious or impious. Nevertheless, they convey to the pious and worthy remission of sins and life eternal; but to the impious and unworthy involve condemnation and eternal punishment (κατάκρισιν καὶ κόλασιν αἰώνιον παραχωρεῖν).

Further, that the Body and Blood of the Lord are severed and divided by the hands and teeth, though in accident (συμβεβηκὸς) only, that is, in the accidents (συμβεβηκότα) of the bread and of the wine, under which they are visible and tangible (ὁρατὰ καὶ ἁπτὰ), we do acknowledge; but in themselves to remain entirely unsevered and undivided. Wherefore the catholic Church also says: “Broken and distributed is He That is broken, yet not severed; Which is ever eaten, yet never consumed, but sanctifying those that partake,” that is worthily.

Further, that in every part, or the smallest division of the transmuted bread and wine there is not a part of the Body and Blood of the Lord — for to say so is blasphemous and wicked — but the entire whole Lord Christ substantially (οὐσίαν), that is, with His Soul and Divinity, or perfect God and perfect man. So that though there may be many celebrations in the world at one and the same hour, there are not many Christs, or Bodies of Christ, but it is one and the same Christ that is truly and really present; and His one Body and His Blood is in all the several Churches of the Faithful; and this not because the Body of the Lord that is in the Heavens descends upon the Altars; but because the bread of the Prothesis set forth in all the several Churches, being changed and transubstantiated, becomes, and is, after consecration, one and the same with That in the Heavens. For it is one Body of the Lord in many places, and not many; and therefore this Mystery is the greatest, and is spoken of as wonderful, and comprehensible by faith only, and not by the sophistries of man’s wisdom; whose vain and foolish curiosity in divine things our pious and God-delivered religion rejects.

Further, that the Body Itself of the Lord and the Blood that are in the Mystery of the Eucharist ought to be honored in the highest manner, and adored with latria. For one is the adoration of the Holy Trinity, and of the Body and Blood of the Lord.

Further, that it is a true and propitiatory Sacrifice (θυσίαν ἀληθῆ καὶ ἱλαστικὴν) offered for all Orthodox, living and dead; and for the benefit of all, as is set forth expressly in the prayers of the Mystery delivered to the Church by the Apostles, in accordance with the command they received of the Lord.

Further, that before Its use, immediately after the consecration, and after Its use, what is reserved in the Sacred Pixes for the communion of those that are about to depart [i.e. the dying] is the true Body of the Lord, and not in the least different therefrom; so that before Its use after the consecration, in Its use, and after Its use, It is in all respects the true Body of the Lord.

Further, we believe that by the word “transubstantiation” (μετουσίωσις) the manner is not explained, by which the bread and wine are changed into the Body and Blood of the Lord, — for that is altogether incomprehensible and impossible, except by God Himself, and those who imagine to do so are involved in ignorance and impiety, — but that the bread and the wine are after the consecration, not typically, nor figuratively, nor by superabundant grace, nor by the communication or the presence of the Divinity alone of the Only-begotten, transmuted into the Body and Blood of the Lord; neither is any accident of the bread, or of the wine, by any conversion or alteration, changed into any accident of the Body and Blood of Christ,[71] but truly, and really, and substantially, doth the bread become the true Body Itself of the Lord, and the wine the Blood Itself of the Lord, as is said above.

Further, that this Mystery of the Sacred Eucharist can be performed by none other, except only by an Orthodox Priest, who has received his priesthood from an Orthodox and Canonical Bishop, in accordance with the teaching of the Eastern Church. This is compendiously the doctrine, and true confession, and most ancient tradition of the catholic Church concerning this Mystery; which must not be departed from in any way by such as would be Orthodox and who reject the novelties and profane vanities of heretics. But necessarily the tradition of the institution must be kept whole and unimpaired. For those that transgress, the catholic Church of Christ rejects and anathematises.

cNV

Decree 18: Of the State of Departed Souls.

We believe that the souls of those that have fallen asleep are either at rest or in torment, according to what each has done;[72] — for when they are separated from their bodies, they depart immediately either to joy, or to sorrow and lamentation; though confessedly neither their enjoyment nor condemnation are complete. For after the common resurrection, when the soul shall be united with the body, with which it had behaved itself well or ill, each shall indeed receive the completion of either enjoyment or of condemnation.

And such [among the faithful] as though involved in mortal sins, who have not departed in despair, but have, while still living in the body, repented, though without bringing forth any fruits of repentance — i.e. by pouring forth tears, by kneeling while watching in prayers, by afflicting themselves, by relieving the poor, and in fine by showing forth by their works their love towards God and their neighbor, and which the catholic Church has from the beginning rightly called satisfaction(ἱκανοποίησιν) — of these and such like depart into Hades, and there endure the punishment due to the sins they have committed. But they are aware of their future release from there, and are delivered by the Supreme Goodness, through the prayers of the Priests, and the good works which the relatives of each do for their Departed; especially the unbloody Sacrifice availing in the highest degree; which each offers particularly for his relatives that have fallen asleep, and which the catholic and apostolic Church offers daily for all alike. Of course, it is understood that we know not the time of their release. For that there is deliverance for such from their direful condition, and that before the common resurrection and judgment we know and believe; but when we know not.[73]

cP4

Question 1: Of Qualifications for the Reading of the Scriptures.

Should the Divine Scriptures be read in the vulgar tongue by all Christians?

No. For that all Scripture is divinely inspired and profitable we know (cf. 2 Timothy 3:16), and is of such necessity, that without the same it is impossible to be Orthodox at all. Nevertheless they should not be read by all, but only by those who (1) with fitting research have inquired into the deep things of the Spirit, and (2) who know in what manner the Divine Scriptures ought to be (a) searched, and (b) taught, and finally (c) read.[74] But to those (1) who are not so disciplined, or (2) who cannot distinguish, or (3) who understand (a) only literally, or (b) in any other way contrary to Orthodoxy what is contained in the Scriptures, the catholic Church, as knowing by experience the mischief arising therefrom, forbids the reading of the same.[75] So that it is permitted to every Orthodox to hear indeed the Scriptures, that he may believe with the heart unto righteousness, and confess with the mouth unto salvation (Romans 10:10).[76] But to read some parts of the Scriptures, and especially of the Old Testament, is forbidden for the aforesaid reasons and others of the like sort. For it is the same thing thus to prohibit undisciplined persons from reading all the Sacred Scriptures, as to require infants to abstain from strong meats.[77]

cPF

Question 2: Against a Superficial Perspicuity.

Are the Scriptures plain to all Christians that read them?

If the Divine Scriptures were plain to all Christians that read them, the Lord would not have commanded such as desired to obtain salvation to search them (John 5:39); and Paul would have said without reason that God had placed the gift of teaching in the Church (1 Corinthians 13:28); and Peter would not have said of the Epistles of Paul that they contained some things hard to be understood (2 Peter 3:16).[78] It is evident, therefore, that the Scriptures are very profound, and their sense lofty; and that they need learned and divine men to search out their true meaning, and a sense that is right, and agreeable to all Scripture, and to its author the Holy Spirit.

So that as to those that are regenerated [in Baptism], although they must know the faith concerning the Trinity, the incarnation of the Son of God, His passion, resurrection, and ascension into the heavens, what concerns regeneration and judgment — for which many have not hesitated to die — it is not necessary, but rather impossible, that all should know what the Holy Spirit makes clear only to those who are disciplined in wisdom and holiness.

cPT

Question 3: The Extent of the Canon of Scripture.

What Books do you call Sacred Scripture?

Following the rule (canon) of the catholic Church, we call Sacred Scripture all those which Cyril [Lucaris] collected from the Synod of Laodicea (363-64),[79] and enumerated, adding thereto those which he foolishly and ignorantly, or rather maliciously called Apocrypha; specifically, “The Wisdom of Solomon,” “Judith,” “Tobit,” “The History of the Dragon,” “The History of Susanna,” “The Maccabees,” and “The Wisdom of Sirach.” For we judge these also to be with the other genuine Books of Divine Scripture genuine parts of Scripture. For ancient custom, or rather the catholic Church, which has delivered to us as genuine the Sacred Gospels and the other Books of Scripture, has undoubtedly delivered these also as parts of Scripture, and the denial of these is the rejection of those.[80] And if, perhaps, it seems that not always have all [of these] been by all reckoned with the others, yet nevertheless these also have been counted and reckoned with the rest of Scripture, as well by Synods, as by many of the most ancient and eminent Theologians of the catholic Church; all of which we also judge to be Canonical Books, and confess them to be Sacred Scripture.[81]

cR2

Question 4: Of the Honor Given to Icons and to Saints.

How ought we to think of the Holy Icons, and of the adoration of the Saints?

The Saints being, and acknowledged by the catholic Church to be, intercessors, as has been said in the Eighth Decree, it is time to say that we honor them as friends of God, and as praying for us to the God of all. And the honor we pay them is twofold. According to one manner which we call hyperdulia(ὑπερδουλικόν), we honor the Mother of God the Word. For though indeed the Theotokos is servant (δούλη) of the only God, yet she is also His Mother, having borne in the flesh one of the Trinity. Therefore also is she hymned, as being beyond compare, as well as above all Angels as Saints. Therefore, also, we pay her the adoration of hyperdulia. But according to the other manner, which we call dulia(δουλικόν), we adore, or rather honor, the holy Angels, Apostles, Prophets, Martyrs, and, in fine, all the Saints.

Moreover, we adore and honor the wood of the precious and life-giving Cross, whereon our Savior underwent this world-saving passion, and the sign of the life-giving Cross, the Manger at Bethlehem, through which we have been delivered from irrationality,[82] the place of the Skull [Calvary], the life-giving Sepulcher, and the other holy objects of adoration; as well the holy Gospels, as the sacred vessels, wherewith the unbloody Sacrifice is performed. And by annual commemorations, and popular festivals, and sacred edifices and offerings; we do respect and honor the Saints.

And then we adore, and honor, and kiss the Icons of our Lord Jesus Christ, and of the most holy Theotokos, and of all the Saints, also of the holy Angels, as they appeared to some of the Forefathers and Prophets. We also represent the All-holy Spirit, as He appeared, in the form of a dove.

And if some say we commit idolatry in adoring the Saints, and the Icons of the Saints, and the other things, we regard it as foolish and frivolous. For we worship with latria(λατρεύομεν) the only God in Trinity, and none other; but the Saints we honor for two reasons: firstly, for their relation to God, since we honor them for His sake; and for themselves, because they are living images of God. But that which is for themselves has been defined as of dulia. But the holy Icons relatively (σκετικῶς), since the honor paid to them is referred to their prototypes. For he that adores the Icon does, through the Icon, adore the prototype; and the honor paid to the Icon is not at all divided or at all separated from that of him that is portrayed, and is done unto the same, like that done unto a royal embassy.

And what they adduce from Scripture in support of their novelties, does not help them as they would, but rather appears agreeable to us. For we, when reading the Divine Scriptures, examine the occasion and person, the example and cause. Therefore, when we contemplate God Himself saying at one time, “You shall not make for yourself any idol, or likeness; neither shall you adore them, nor serve them” (Exodus 20:4-5; Deuteronomy 5:8-9); and at another, commanding that Cherubim should be made (Exodus 25:18); and further, that oxen and lions were placed in the Temple (1 Kings 7:29), we do not rashly consider the import of these things. For faith is not in assurance; but, as has been said, considering the occasion and other circumstances, we arrive at the right interpretation of the same; and we conclude that, “You shall not make for yourself any idol, or likeness,” is the same as saying, “You shall not adore strange Gods” (Exodus 20:4), or rather, “You shall not commit idolatry.” For so both the custom prevalent in the Church from Apostolic times of adoring the holy Icons relatively is maintained, and the worship of latria reserved for God alone; and God does not appear to speak contrarily to Himself. For if the Scripture says [absolutely], “You shall not make,” “You shall not adore,” we fail to see how God afterwards permitted likenesses to be made, even though not for adoration. Therefore, since the commandment concerns idolatry only, we find serpents, and lions, and oxen, and Cherubim made, and figures and likenesses; among which Angels appear, as having been adored.

And as to the Saints whom they bring forward as saying that it is not lawful to adore Icons, we conclude that they rather help us, since they in their sharp disputations inveighed, as well against those that adore the holy Icons with latria, as against those that bring the icons of their deceased relatives into the Church, and subjected to anathema those that so do, but not against the right adoration, either of the Saints, or of the holy Icons, or of the precious Cross, or of the other things that have been mentioned, especially since the holy Icons have been in the Church, and have been adored by the Faithful, even from the times of the Apostles, as is recorded and proclaimed by very many; with whom and after whom the Seventh Holy Ecumenical Council puts to shame all heretical impudence.

Since it giveth us most plainly to understand that it behoves to adore the Holy Icons, and what have been mentioned above. And it anathematises, and subjects to excommunication, as well those that adore the Icons with latria as well as those that say that the Orthodox commit idolatry in adoring the Icons. We also, therefore, do anathematize with them such as adore either Saint, or Angel, or Icon, or Cross, or Relic of Saints, or sacred Vessel, or Gospel, or aught else that is in heaven above, or aught on the earth, or in the sea, with latria; and we ascribe adoration with latria to the only God in Trinity. And we anathematize those that say that the adoration of Icons is the latria of Icons, and who adore them not, and honor not the Cross, and the Saints, as the Church has delivered.

Now we adore the Saints and the Holy Icons, in the manner declared; and portray them in adornment of our temples, and that they may be the books of the unlearned, and for them to imitate the virtues of the Saints; and for them to remember, and have an increase of love, and be vigilant in ever calling upon the Lord, as Sovereign and Father, but upon the Saints, as his servants, and our helpers and mediators.

And so much for the Chapters and Questions of Cyril [Lucaris]. But the heretics do find fault with even the prayers of the pious unto God, for we know not why they should calumniate those of the Monks only. Moreover, that prayer is a conversation with God, and a petitioning for such good things as are fitting for us, from Him of whom we hope to receive, an an ascent too of the mind unto God, and a pious expression of our purpose towards God, a seeking what is above, the support of a holy soul, a worship most acceptable to God, a token of repentance, and of steadfast hope, we do know; and prayer is made either with the mind alone, or with the mind and voice, thereby engaging in the contemplation of the goodness and mercy of God, of the unworthiness of the petitioner, and in thanksgiving, and in realizing the promises attached to obedience to God.

And it is accompanied by faith, and hope, and perseverance, and observance of the commandments; and, as already said, is a petitioning for heavenly things; and it has many fruits, which it is needless to enumerate; and it is made continually, and is accomplished either in an upright posture, or by kneeling. And so great is its efficacy, that it is acknowledged to be both the nourishment and the life of the soul. All this is gathered from Divine Scripture, so that if any ask for demonstration thereof, he is like a fool, or a blind man, who disputes about the sun’s light at the hour of noon, and when the sky is clear.

But the heretics, wishing to leave nothing unassailed that Christ has enjoined, carp at this also. But being ashamed thus openly to impiously maintain as much concerning prayer, they do not forbid it to be made at all, but are disturbed at the prayers of the Monks; and they act thus, that they may raise in the simple-minded a hatred towards the Monks; so that they may not endure even the sight of them, as though they were profane and innovators, much less to allow the dogmas of the pious and Orthodox faith to be taught by them. For the adversary is wise as to evil, and ingenious in inventing calumnies. Therefore his followers also — such as these heretics especially — are not so much anxious about piety, as desirous of ever involving men in an abyss of evils, and of estranging them into places, which the Lord does not take under his care (cf. Deuteronomy 11:12).

They should be asked therefore, what are the prayers of the Monks? And if they can show that the Monks do anything entirely alien, of themselves, and not in accordance with the Orthodox worship of Christians, we also will join against them, and say, not only that the Monks are not Monks, but also not Christians. But if the Monks set forth particularly the glory and wonders of God, and continually, and unremittingly, and at all times, as far as is possible for man, proclaim the Deity, with hymns and doxologies; now singing, indeed, parts of Scripture, and now gathering hymns out of Scripture, or at least giving utterance to what is agreeable to the same, then we must acknowledge that they perform an apostolic and prophetic work, or rather that of the Lord.

Wherefore, we also, in singing the Paracletiki, the Triodion, and the Menaion,[83] perform a work in no way unbecoming Christians. For all such Books talk about the Deity as one, and yet distinguished [in three Persons], and that even in the Hymns, now gathered out of the Divine Scriptures, and now according to the direction of the Spirit. And in order that in the melodies the words may be paralleled by other words, we sing parts of Scripture; moreover, that it may be quite plain that we always sing parts of Scripture, to every one of our Hymns, called a Troparion, we add a verse of Scripture. And if we sing, or read the Thecarae,[84] or other prayers composed by the Fathers of old, let them say what there is in these which is blasphemous, or not pious, and we with them will prosecute these [Monks].

But if they say this only, that to pray continually and unremittingly is wrong, what have they to do with us? Let them contend with Christ — as indeed they do contend — who spoke the parable of the unjust judge (Luke 18:2), how that prayer should be made continually; and taught us to watch and pray (Mark 13:33), in order to escape trials, and to stand before the Son of Man (Luke 21:36). Let them also contend with Paul, [who] in the First Letter to the Thessalonians (5:17), and elsewhere in many places [exhorts to pray unremittingly]. I refrain from mentioning the divine leaders of the catholic Church from Christ until us; for to put these [heretics] to shame, the accord of the Forefathers, Apostles, and Prophets concerning prayer suffices.

If, therefore, what the Monks do is what the Apostles and Prophets did; and, we may say, what the holy Fathers and Forefathers of Christ Himself did; then it is manifest that the prayers of the Monks are fruits of the Holy Spirit, the giver of graces. But the novelties which the Calvinists have blasphemously introduced concerning God and divine things, perverting, mutilating, and abusing the Divine Scriptures, are sophistries and inventions of the devil.[85]

Without avail, too, is the assertion that the Church cannot, without violence and tyranny, appoint fasts and abstinence from certain foods. For the Church, for the mortification of the flesh and all the passions, and acting most rightly, carefully appoints prayer and fasting, of which all the Saints have been lovers and examples; through which our adversary the devil (cf. 1 Peter 5:8) is overthrown by the grace from on high, together with his armies and his hosts;[86] and the race (cf. 2 Timothy 4:7) that is set before the pious is the more easily accomplished. In making these provisions the undefiled (cf. Ephesians 5:27) Church everywhere uses neither violence nor tyranny, but exhorts, admonishes, and teaches, in accordance with Scripture, and persuades by the power of the Spirit.

And to what has been mentioned a certain fellow at Charenton — we mean the previously mentioned Claud — adds certain other ridiculous objections against us, and unworthy of any consideration; but what has been said by him we regard as idle tales; and the man himself we consider as a trifler and altogether illiterate. For from [the time of] Photius there have been vast numbers, and there are now, in the Eastern Church, eminent for wisdom, and theology, and holiness, by the power of the Spirit.

And it is most absurd [to argue] that because certain of the Eastern Priests keep the Holy Bread in wooden vessels, within the Church, but outside the Bema[87] hung on one of the columns, that therefore they do not acknowledge the real and true transmutation of the bread into the Body of the Lord. For that certain of the poor Priests do keep the Lord’s Body in wooden vessels, we do not deny; for truly Christ is not honored by stones and marbles, but asks for a sound purpose and a clean heart.

And this is what happened to Paul. “For we have,” he says, “the treasure in earthen vessels” (2 Corinthians 4:7). But where particular Churches are able, as with us here in Jerusalem, the Lord’s Body is honorably kept within the Holy Bema of such Churches, and a seven-light lamp always kept burning before it.

And I am tempted to wonder, if it may be that the heretics have seen the Lord’s Body hanging in some Churches outside the Bema, because perhaps the walls of the Bema were unsafe on account of age, and so have arrived at these absurd conclusions; but they did not notice Christ portrayed under the apse[88] of the Holy Bema as a babe [lying] in the Paten; so that they might have known that the Eastern [Christians] do not represent that there is in the Paten a type, or grace, or anything else, but the Christ Himself; and so believe that the Bread of the Eucharist is naught else, but becomes substantially the Body Itself of the Lord, and so maintain the truth.

But concerning all these things it has been treated at large and most lucidly in what is called The Confession of the Eastern Church;[89] also by George of Chios from Coresius in his [Treatises] concerning the Mysteries, and of predestination, and of grace, and of free-will, and of the intercession and adoration of Saints, and of the adoration of Icons, and in the Refutation composed by him of the illicit Synod of the heretics held on a certain occasion in Flanders, and in many other [Treatises]; by Gabriel of Peloponnesus, Metropolitan of Philadelphia; and by Gregory Protosyncellus of Chios in his [Treatises] concerning the Mysteries; by Jeremiah, the Most Holy Patriarch of Constantinople, in three dogmatic and Synodical Letters to the Lutherans of Tubingen in Germany;[90] by John, Priest, and Economus of Constantinople, surnamed Nathaniel; by Meletius Syrigus, of Crete, in the Orthodox Refutation composed by him of the Chapters and Questions of the said Cyril [Lucaris]; by Theophanes, Patriarch of Jerusalem, in his dogmatic Epistle to the Lithuanians, and in innumerable other [Epistles]. And before these has it been spoken most excellently of these matters by Symeon, of Thessalonica, and before him by all the Fathers, and by the Ecumenical Synods, by ecclesiastical historians too; and even by writers of secular history under the Christian Autocrats of Rome, have these matters been mentioned incidentally; by all of whom, without any controversy, the aforesaid were received from the Apostles; whose traditions, whether by writing, or by word, have through the Fathers descended until us.

Further, the argument derived from the heretics also confirms the aforesaid. For the Nestorians after the year of Salvation, 428, the Armenians too, and the Copts, and the Syrians, and further even the Ethiopians, who dwell at the Equator, and beyond this towards the tropics of Capricorn, whom those that are there commonly call Campesii, after the year[91] ... of the Incarnation, broke away from the catholic Church; and each of these has as peculiar only its heresy, as all know from the Acts of the Ecumenical Synods. Albeit, as concerning the purpose and number of the Sacred Mysteries, and everything that has been said above — except their own particular heresy, as has been said — they entirely believe with the catholic Church; as we see with our own eyes every hour, and learn by experience and conversation, here in the Holy City of Jerusalem, in which there either dwell or are continually sojourning, vast numbers of them all, both learned, such as they have, and illiterate.

Let, therefore, prating and innovating heretics keep silence, and not endeavor by stealing some sentences against us, from the Scriptures and the Fathers, to cunningly bolster up falsehood, as all apostates and heretics have ever done; and let them say this one thing only, that in contriving excuses for sins (cf. Psalm 140:4 LXX) they have chosen to speak wickedness against God (cf. Psalm 78:19), and blasphemies against the Saints (cf. Psalm 83:3).

cS2

Epilogue.

Let this briefly suffice for the reputation of the falsehoods of the adversaries, which they have devised against the Eastern Church, alleging in support of their falsehoods the incoherent and impious Chapters of the said Cyril [Lucaris]. And let it be for a sign not to be contradicted (cf. Luke 2:34) of those heretics that unjustly calumniate us, as though they spoke truly; but for a sign to be believed, that is for reformation of their innovations, and for their return to the catholic and apostolic Church; in which their forefathers also were of old, and [who] assisted at those Synods and contests against heretics, which these now reject and revile. For it was unreasonable on their part, especially as they considered themselves to be wise, to have listened to men that were lovers of self; and profane, and that spoke not from the Holy Spirit, but from the prince of lies, and to have forsaken the holy, catholic, and apostolic Church, which God has purchased with the Blood of His own Son (cf. Acts 20:28), and to have abandoned her. For otherwise there will overtake those that have separated from the Church the pains that are reserved for heathens and publicans; but the Lord who has ever protected her against all enemies, will not neglect the catholic Church; to Him be glory and dominion unto the ages of ages. Amen.

In the year of Salvation 1672, on the 16th [day] of the month of March, in the Holy City of Jerusalem: —

I, Dositheus, by the mercy of God, Patriarch of the Holy City of Jerusalem and of all Palestine, declare and confess this to be the faith of the Eastern Church.[92]

cSC

The Shorter Catechism

of St. Philaret of Moscow

Introduction to the Shorter Catechism.

1. What learning is most needful for all men?

Christian learning.

2. Why?

Because it leads us to God, to everlasting salvation, or, in other words, to everlasting happiness.

3. How can we draw near to God?

By thought, desire, and deed.

4. Who draws near to God by thought?

He who rightly believes in Him.

5. Who draws near to God by desire?

He who prays to Him.

6. Who draws near to God by deed?

He who walks after God's will and law.

7. Whence may we best learn how to believe aright?

From the Creed.

8. Whence may we learn how to pray?

From the Lord's Prayer.

9. Whence how to walk after God's will and law?

From the Ten Commandments.

cTB

Of the Creed.

10. How is the Creed divided?

Into twelve Articles.

11. What is the First Article of the Creed?

I believe in one God, the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth, and of all things visible and invisible.

12. What points of our belief are contained in this Article?

The following:

1. God is One.

2. Being One in essence, He is yet Three in Persons.

3. The First Person of the Trinity is God the Father.

4. God thus One in Three Persons made heaven and earth, and all things visible and invisible.

5. God sustains by His power, and governs all things.

13. What is the Second Article of the Creed?

And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son of God, Begotten of the Father before all worlds, Light of Light, Very God of very God, Begotten, not made, Of one substance with the Father, By Whom all things were made.

14. What points of our belief are taught in this Article?

The following:

1. The Second Person of the Holy Trinity is the Son of God, Jesus Christ.

2. Jesus Christ is the one only Son of God, and there is no other Son of God in such sense as He.

3. The Son of God is begotten of God the Father, before all worlds, and all times; and so is coeternal with the Father.

4. Jesus Christ is very God begotten of very God, and is of one substance with the Father.

5. The Son is not made, but all things were made by Him.

15. What is the Third Article of the Creed?

Who for us men, and for our salvation came down from heaven, And was incarnate by the Holy Spirit of the Virgin Mary, And was made Man.

16. What are we here taught to believe of the Son of God?

We are taught to believe as follows:

1. The Son of God came down from heaven; took upon Him the nature of man, that is, a reasonable soul and human flesh; was made man, without ceasing to be God, and dwelt on earth, where He was called Jesus Christ.

2. Jesus Christ was born on earth of the most Holy Virgin Mary, who conceived Him by the operation of the Holy Spirit, and remaineth ever Virgin.

3. Jesus Christ came on earth to save men from sin, in which they are born and live, and from death, to which they have been condemned ever since the Fall of Adam.

17. What is the Fourth Article of the Creed?

And was crucified also for us under Pontius Pilate, and suffered, and was buried.

18. What do these words teach us to believe of Jesus Christ, the Son of God?

That:

1. He was nailed to a Cross, suffered many things, died, and was buried.

2. He endured all this not for Himself, being wholly innocent and sinless, but for us. That is:

3. He endured all the penalties due to all the sins of men, and death itself, in order to deliver us from sin and death.

19. What is the Fifth Article of the Creed?

And rose again the Third Day according to the Scriptures.

20. What are we here taught of Jesus Christ?

That Jesus Christ the Third Day after His death rose from the tomb, as had been foretold of Him in the books of the Prophets.

21. What is the Sixth Article of the Creed?

And ascended into heaven, and sitteth on the right hand of the Father.

22. What doth this teach us of Jesus Christ?

That Jesus Christ on the fortieth day after His resurrection ascended with His body into heaven, and sitteth on the right hand of God the Father, being equal to Him in power and glory.

23. What is the Seventh Article of the Creed?

And He shall come again with glory to judge both the living and the dead: Whose kingdom shall have no end.

24. What doth this teach us of Jesus Christ?

That Jesus Christ shall come again from heaven in glory, to judge all men, both the living and the dead, who shall all rise again to be judged.

25. What is the Eighth Article of the Creed?

And I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the Giver of life, Who proceedeth from the Father, Who with the Father and the Son together is worshipped and glorified, Who spake by the Prophets.

26. What part of our belief is contained in this Article?

That part which relates to the Holy Spirit, as follows:

1. The Holy Spirit is the third Person of the Blessed Trinity.

2. The Holy Spirit proceeds from God the Father,

3. The Holy Spirit, with God the Father and the Son, giveth life to all creatures, and specially spiritual life to men.

4. The same worship and glory, which belongeth to the Father and the Son, belongeth also to the Holy Spirit, as very Lord and God.

5. When the Prophets and Apostles declared God’s will to men, or wrote the sacred books, they spake by inspiration of the Holy Spirit.

27. What is the Ninth Article of the Creed?

I believe in one, holy, catholic, and Apostolic Church.

28. What are we here taught?

That the true Christian Church is one, holy, catholic or ecumenical, and Apostolic, that is, derived from the Apostles to us without break or change, and so to be continued to the end of the world: and therefore it is our duty to reverence her, and obey her, and flee all schism; that is, separation from the one Orthodox Church.

29. What is the Tenth Article of the Creed?

I acknowledge one Baptism for the remission of sins.

30. What part of our belief is contained in this Article?

The doctrine of the mystery or sacrament of Holy Baptism, which every believer must receive once.

31. Why is Baptism called a mystery?

Because of the grace which mysteriously worketh in it.

32. Are there any other Sacraments, besides Baptism?

The Sacraments in all are seven:

1. Baptism.

2. Chrismation.

3. Communion.

4. Confession.

5. Orders.

6. Matrimony.

7. The Anointing of the Sick.

33. In what consists Baptism?

In this, that the believer is dipped thrice in water, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.

34. Why are we baptized?

To the end that we may be mystically washed from sin, and receive a new life of grace.

35. In what consists Chrismation?

In this, that the baptized is anointed with Holy Chrism while the minister pronounces the sacramental words: “The seal of the gift of the Holy Spirit.”

36. In what consists Communion?

In this, that the believer, under the form of bread communes of the very Body of Christ, and under the form of wine of the very Blood of Christ.

37. What are the benefits which he receives thereby?

He is made one with Christ, and in Him a partaker of eternal life.

38. In what consists Confession?

In this, that he who has sinned after Baptism confesses his sins before a Priest, and through him receives pardon (absolution) from Jesus Christ Himself.

39. In what consists the sacrament of Orders?

In this, that by laying on of the Bishop’s hands power is given to perform or minister sacraments.

40. In what consists the sacrament of Matrimony?

In this, that on the free consent of the man and woman, their union is blessed in the Church, for an image of the union of Christ with His Church.

41. In what consists the Anointing of the Sick?

In this, that the sick is anointed with oil, while grace is prayed for to heal him.

42. What is the Eleventh Article of the Creed?

I look for the Resurrection of the dead.

43. What are we taught here?

That all men who are dead shall at a certain time foreordained of God rise again with their bodies, which shall thenceforth be incorruptible and immortal.

44. What is the Twelfth Article of the Creed?

And the life of the world to come.

45. What is taught in this?

That after the general resurrection and Christ's judgment there shall be an everlasting life, in which believers, who have ended their course on earth in repentance and good works, shall receive everlasting bliss; but impenitent sinners shall suffer everlasting torment.

cWR

Of the Lord’s Prayer.

46. How may the Lord's Prayer be divided?

Into the Preface, Seven Petitions, and the Doxology.

47. What is the Preface?

Our Father which art in heaven.

48. Why has Jesus Christ commanded us to call upon God by the name of Father?

To this end: that we should stand before God in prayer not only with fear, as servants before their Lord, but also with love and hope, as children before their Father.

49. What is the First Petition of the Lord's Prayer?

Hallowed be Thy Name.

50. What ask we hereby of God?

We ask His help:

1) that His holy Name may be hallowed both in our hearts and on our lips; also:

2) that by our holy deeds and lives we may contribute to spread His glory among men.

51. What is the Second Petition of the Lord's Prayer?

Thy Kingdom come.

52. What ask we hereby of God?

We ask His help, that sin reign not in us, but that the Spirit of God may lead us to good and happiness.

53. What is the Third Petition of the Lord's Prayer?

Thy will be done, as in heaven so also on earth.

54. What ask we hereby?

In this petition we offer the sacrifice of our will to God, and ask Him to do with us as seemeth Him good of His wisdom; likewise that all men may be brought to obey His will on earth, even as it is obeyed perfectly by the Angels in heaven.

55. What is the Fourth Petition of the Lord's Prayer?

Give us this day our daily bread.

56. What ask we hereby?

We ask God, of His good providence to give us what is necessary for us to subsist, as food, clothes, lodging; and we ask this for today only, without further care for the future, because such care would be inconsistent with trust in God.

57. What is the Fifth Petition of the Lord's Prayer?

And forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our debtors.

58. What ask we hereby?

We ask God to forgive us our sins, as we also forgive them that have sinned against us, or wronged us.

59. But what if we do not forgive others?

Then we can expect no forgiveness ourselves of God; and so it is absolutely necessary to forgive injuries, and strive to be at peace with all men.

60. What is the Sixth Petition of the Lord's Prayer?

And lead us not into temptation.

61. What ask we hereby?

We ask God not to suffer the devil to deceive us in any wise, or draw us into sin.

62. What is the Seventh Petition of the Lord's Prayer?

But deliver us from evil.

63. What ask we hereby?

We ask God to deliver us from all evil and misery.

64. What is the Doxology after the Lord's Prayer?

For Thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory for ever and ever. Amen.

65. Why is this added after the Lord's Prayer?

That he who prays, may not only ask mercies for himself from the almighty and all-ruling God, but also offer Him that glory which is His by right.

66. What meaneth the word, Amen?

It is a word of religious affirmation. It means, Verily, or So be it.

cYB

Of the Ten Commandments.

67. What is the First Commandment of God's law?

I am the Lord thy God: thou shalt have none other gods but Me.

68. What doth God command hereby?

In this Commandment God teaches us:

1. With our mind to acknowledge Him.

2. With our heart to believe in Him, trust in Him, and love Him.

3. With our lips to confess and glorify Him.

4. With our whole being to worship Him, and with all our might devoutly to serve Him.

5. Beside the one true God neither to invoke nor honour any false god, nor give to creatures that honour which belongeth to God only.

69. What are we to think of the holy Angels and holy men?

We ought not to honour them as we honour God, but as God’s servants, who may present our prayers to God, and minister to us His grace; wherefore we should also ask help through them of God.

70. What is the Second Commandment?

Thou shalt not make unto thyself any graven image, nor the likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or in the earth beneath, or in the water under the earth: thou shalt not bow down to them nor serve them.

71. What doth God forbid in this Commandment?

He forbids us to worship idols.

72. What is an idol?

The material representation of any creature, or of any imaginary deity, which is worshipped instead of the true God.

73. What are we to think of Icons?

Icons, that is, representations of the true God in the flesh, and of His Saints, are rightly used for the religious remembrance of the works of God, and of His Saints, and it is right to pray before them to God and to His Saints. Nevertheless, this right and godly honour of Icons may be abused so as to become the sin of idolatry, if any one honours only the holy Icons themselves, and trusts in their material substance, without raising up his mind and heart to Christ and His Saints whom they represent.

74. What is the Third Commandment?

Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain.

75. What doth God forbid hereby?

He forbids us to use the name of God amiss.

76. When may we rightly use the name of God?

We may rightly use the name of God in prayer, in religious instruction, and in lawful oaths, when required by authority, and that with fear and reverence.

77. But in common talk may we exclaim, as many do, or swear by the name of God?

No. This is contrary to the Third Commandment.

78. What is the Fourth Commandment?

Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy: six days shalt thou work and do all that thou hast to do, but on the Seventh Day is the Sabbath to the Lord thy God.

79. What doth God command hereby?

To work six days in the week, and do all that belongs to our worldly calling, but to keep the Seventh Day holy to God; that is, to set it apart for prayer, for religious instruction, and works of piety.

80. Why ought we to keep holy the Seventh Day?

Because God made the world in six days, and on the Seventh Day rested from all His works.

81. Which particular day of the seven ought we to keep?

In old time they kept the Sabbath (or Saturday); but since the Resurrection of Christ, the Christian Church keeps the Day of the Resurrection (or the Lord's Day, Sunday).

82. Are there not also other days to be kept holy?

There are:

First, the Feasts of our Lord.

Secondly, those of the most holy Virgin, the Mother of God.

Thirdly, those of the Saints.

Fourthly, fast days, which are to be kept holy by observing such abstinence as is enjoined by the Church.

83. What is the Fifth Commandment?

Honour thy father and thy mother, that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest live long upon the earth.

84. What doth God command hereby?

He commands us to honour and obey our parents.

85. Is it only our parents then that we are to honour?

The same Commandment teaches us also to honour all who in diverse relations stand to us in the place of parents; as:

1) The Sovereign, who is the common father of the whole people and empire.

2) Spiritual Pastors and Teachers.

3) Elders; Guardians and Benefactors.

4) Governors and Masters.

86. What is the Sixth Commandment?

Thou shalt do no murder.

87. What doth God forbid hereby?

He forbids us to take away men's lives by force or guile, or in any way to disturb the peace of our neighbour; and so this Commandment forbids also all strife, wrath, hatred, envy, and cruelty.

88. What is the Seventh Commandment?

Thou shalt not commit adultery.

89. What doth God forbid hereby?

He forbids adultery, and all irregular and unclean carnal lust, and likewise all that may tend to excite unlawful desires; as:

1) Drunkenness.

2) Indecent and shameless words or gestures.

3) The reading of bad books.

4) Singing or listening to immoral songs.

5) Looking upon immoral pictures or shows.

90. What is the Eighth Commandment?

Thou shalt not steal.

91. What doth God forbid hereby?

To take by force or guile any thing that is not our own.

92. What is the Ninth Commandment?

Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.

93. What doth God forbid hereby?

He forbids us to bear false witness against any man, in court, or out of court, to slander, defame, or revile any, either to his face or behind his back, or under any circumstances to lie or deceive.

94. What is the Tenth Commandment?

Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife, thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, nor his field, nor his servant, nor his maid, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any other beast, nor any thing that is his.

95. What doth God forbid hereby?

He forbids us not only to do evil, but even so much as to desire it, or think of it, that we may not from evil thoughts and desires go on to evil deeds.

96. How are we to keep ourselves from evil deeds, desires, and thoughts?

We should ever bear in mind that the Holy, Just, and Almighty God constantly seeth, and upon the first thought of sin we should say with Joseph, the son of Jacob, How shall I do this wickedness, and sin against God?

c110

The Longer Catechism

of St. Philaret of Moscow

Introduction to the Longer Catechism.

Preliminary Instruction.

1. What is an Orthodox Catechism?

An Orthodox Catechism is an instruction in the orthodox Christian faith, to be taught to every Christian, to enable him to please God and save his own soul.

2. What is the meaning of the word Catechism?

It is a Greek word, signifying instruction, or oral teaching, and has been used ever since the Apostles' times to denote that primary instruction in the orthodox faith which is needful for every Christian. (See Luke 1:4; Acts 18:25)

3. What is necessary in order to please God and to save one's own soul?

In the first place, a knowledge of the true God, and a right faith in him; in the second place, a life according to faith, and good works.

4. Why is faith necessary in the first place?

Because, as the Word of God testifies, Without faith it is impossible to please God. (Hebrews 11:6)

5. Why must a life according to faith, and good works, be inseparable from this faith?

Because, as the Word of God testifies, Faith without works is dead. (James 2:20)

6. What is faith?

According to the definition of St. Paul, Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen (Hebrews 11:1); that is, a trust in the unseen as though it were seen, in that which is hoped and waited for as if it were present.

7. What is the difference between knowledge and faith?

Knowledge has for its object things visible and comprehensible; faith, things which are invisible, and even incomprehensible. Knowledge is founded on experience, on examination of its object; but faith on belief of testimony to truth. Knowledge belongs properly to the intellect, although it may also act on the heart; faith belongs principally to the heart, although it is imparted through the intellect.

8. Why is faith, and not knowledge only, necessary in religious instruction?

Because the chief object of this instruction is God invisible and incomprehensible, and the wisdom of God hidden in a mystery; consequently, many parts of this learning can not be embraced by knowledge, but may be received by faith.

Faith, says St. Cyril of Jerusalem, is the eye which enlightens every man's conscience; it gives man knowledge. For, as the prophet says, If you will not believe, you shall not understand. Cyr. Cat. v.

9. Can you illustrate further the necessity of faith?

St. Cyril thus illustrates it:

It is not only amongst us, who hear the name of Christ, that faith is made so great a thing; but every thing which is done in the world, even by men who are unconnected with the Church, is done by faith. Agriculture is founded on faith; for no one who did not believe that he should gather in the increase of the fruits of the earth would undertake the labor of husbandry. Mariners are guided by faith when they entrust their fate to a slight plank, and prefer the agitation of the unstable waters to the more stable element of the earth. They give themselves up to uncertain expectations, and retain for themselves nothing but faith, to which they trust more than to any anchors. Cyr. Cat. v.

c127

On Divine Revelation.

10. Whence is the doctrine of the orthodox faith derived?

From divine revelation.

11. What is meant by the words divine revelation?

That which God himself has revealed to men, in order that they might rightly and savingly believe in him, and worthily honor him.

12. Has God given such a revelation to all men?

He has given it for all, as being necessary for all alike, and capable of bringing salvation to all; but, since not all men are capable of receiving a revelation immediately from God, he has employed special persons as heralds of his revelation, to deliver it to all who are desirous of receiving it.

13. Why are not all men capable of receiving a revelation immediately from God?

Owing to their sinful impurity, and weakness both in soul and body.

14. Who were the heralds of divine revelation?

Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, and other Prophets, received and preached the beginnings of divine revelation; but it was the incarnate Son of God, our Lord Jesus Christ, who brought it to earth, in its fullness and perfection, and spread it over all the world by his Disciples and Apostles.

The Apostle Paul says, in the beginning of his Epistle to the Hebrews:

God, who at sundry times, and in divers manners, spake in times past unto the Fathers by the Prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds.

The same Apostle writes as follows to the Corinthians:

But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden things which God ordained before the world unto our glory, which none of the princes of this world knew. But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit; for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. (1 Corinthians 2:7-8, 10)

The Evangelist John writes in his Gospel:

No man hath seen God at any time; the only-begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. (John 1:18)

Jesus Christ himself says:

No man knoweth the Son but the Father; neither knoweth any man the Father save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him. (Matthew 11:27)

15. Can not man, then, have any knowledge of God without a special revelation from him?

Man may have some knowledge of God by contemplation of those things which he has created; but this knowledge is imperfect and insufficient, and can serve only as a preparation for faith, or as a help towards the knowledge of God from his revelation.

For the invisible things of him, from the creation of the world, are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead. (Romans 1:20)

And he hath made of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell on all the face of the earth; and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation; that they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us. For in him we live, and move, and have our being. (Acts 17:26-28)

With regard to faith in God, it is preceded by the idea that God is, which idea we get from the things which have been created. Attentively examining the creation of the world, we perceive that God is wise, powerful, and good; we perceive, also, his invisible properties. By these means we are led to acknowledge him as the Supreme Ruler. Seeing that God is the Creator of the whole world, and we form a part of the world, it follows that God is also our Creator. On this knowledge follows faith, and on faith adoration. (Basil. Magn. Epist. 232.)

On Holy Tradition and Holy Scripture.

16. How is divine revelation spread among men and preserved in the true Church?

By two channels--holy tradition and holy Scripture.

17. What is meant by the name holy tradition?

By the name holy tradition is meant the doctrine of the faith, the law of God, the sacraments, and the ritual as handed down by the true believers and worshipers of God by word and example from one to another, and from generation to generation.

18. Is there any sure repository of holy tradition?

All true believers united by the holy tradition of the faith, collectively and successively, by the will of God, compose the Church; and she is the sure repository of holy tradition, or, as St. Paul expresses it, The Church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. (1 Timothy 3:15)

St. Irenæus writes thus:

We ought not to seek among others the truth, which we may have for asking from the Church; for in her, as in a rich treasure-house, the Apostles have laid up in its fullness all that pertains to the truth, so that whosoever seeketh may receive from her the food of life. She is the door of life. (Adv. Hæres. lib. iii. c. 4.)

19. What is that which you call holy Scripture?

Certain books written by the Spirit of God through men sanctified by God, called Prophets and Apostles. These books are commonly termed the Bible.

20. What does the word Bible mean?

It is Greek, and means the books. The name signifies that the sacred books deserve attention before all others.

21. Which is the more ancient, holy tradition or holy Scripture?

The most ancient and original instrument for spreading divine revelation is holy tradition. From Adam to Moses there were no sacred books. Our Lord Jesus Christ himself delivered his divine doctrine and ordinances to his Disciples by word and example, but not by writing. The same method was followed by the Apostles also at first, when they spread abroad the faith and established the Church of Christ. The necessity of tradition is further evident from this, that books can be available only to a small part of mankind, but tradition to all.

22. Why, then, was holy Scripture given?

To this end, that divine revelation might be preserved more exactly and unchangeably. In holy Scripture we read the words of the Prophets and Apostles precisely as if we were living with them and listening to them, although the latest of the sacred books were written thousands of years before our time.

23. Must we follow holy tradition, even when we possess holy Scripture?

We must follow that tradition which agrees with the divine revelation and with holy Scripture, as is taught us by holy Scripture itself. The Apostle Paul writes: Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye have been taught, whether by word or our epistle. (2 Thessalonians 2:15)

24. Why is tradition necessary even now?

As a guide to the right understanding of holy Scripture, for the right ministration of the sacraments, and the preservation of sacred rites and ceremonies in the purity of their original institution.

St. Basil the Great says of this as follows:

Of the doctrines and injunctions kept by the Church, some we have from written instruction. but some we have received from, apostolical tradition, by succession in private. Both the former and the latter have one and the same force for piety, and this will be contradicted by no one who has ever so little knowledge in the ordinances of the Church; for were we to dare to reject unwritten customs, as if they had no great importance, we should insensibly mutilate the Gospel, even in the most essential points, or, rather, for the teaching of the Apostles leave but an empty name. For instance, let us mention before all else the very first and commonest act of Christians, that they who trust in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ should sign themselves with the sign of the cross--who hath taught this by writing? To turn to the east in prayer--what Scripture have we for this? The words of invocation in the change of the Eucharistic bread and of the Cup of blessing--by which of the Saints have they been left us in writing? for we are not content with those words which the Apostle or the Gospel records, but both before them and after them, we pronounce others also, which we hold to be of great force for the sacrament, though we have received them from unwritten teaching. By what Scripture is it, in like manner, that we bless the water of baptism, the oil of unction, and the person himself who is baptized? Is it not by a silent and secret tradition? What more? The very practice itself of anointing with oil--what written word have we for it? Whence is the rule of trine immersion? and the rest of the ceremonies at baptism, the renunciation of Satan and his angels?--from what Scripture are they taken? Are they not all from this unpublished and private teaching, which our Fathers kept under a reserve inaccessible to curiosity and profane disquisition, having been taught as a first principle to guard by silence the sanctity of the mysteries? for how were it fit to publish in writing the doctrine of those things, on which the unbaptized may not so much as look? (Can. xcvii. De Spir. Sanct. c. xxvii.)

On Holy Scripture in Particular.

25. When were the sacred books written?

At different times: some before the birth of Christ, others after.

26. Have not these two divisions of the sacred books each their own names?

They have. Those written before the birth of Christ are called the books of the Old Testament, while those written after are called the books of the New Testament.

27. What are the Old and New Testaments?

In other words, the old and new Covenants of God with men.

28. In what consisted the Old Testament?

In this, that God promised men a divine Saviour, and prepared them to receive him.

29. How did God prepare men to receive the Saviour?

Through gradual revelations, by prophecies and types.

30. In what consists the New Testament?

In this, that God has actually given men a divine Saviour, his own only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ.

31. How many are the books of the Old Testament?

St. Cyril of Jerusalem, St. Athanasius the Great, and St. John Damascene reckon them at twenty-two, agreeing therein with the Jews, who so reckon them in the original Hebrew tongue. (Athanas. Ep. xxxix. De Test.; J. Damasc. Theol. lib. iv. c. 17.)

32. Why should we attend to the reckoning of the Hebrews?

Because, as the Apostle Paul says, unto them were committed the oracles of God; and the sacred books of the Old Testament have been received from the Hebrew Church of that Testament by the Christian Church of the New. (Romans 3:2)

33. How do St. Cyril and St. Athanasius enumerate the books of the Old Testament?

As follows: 1, The book of Genesis; 2, Exodus; 3, Leviticus; 4, the book of Numbers; 5, Deuteronomy; 6, the book of Jesus the son of Nun; 7, the book of Judges, and with it, as an appendix, the book of Ruth; 8, the First and Second books of Kings, as two parts of one book; 9, the Third and Fourth Books of Kings; 10, the First and Second books of Paralipomena; 11, the First book of Esdras, and the Second, or, as it is entitled in Greek, the book of Nehemiah; 12, the book of Esther; 13, the book of Job; 14, the Psalms; 15, the Proverbs of Solomon; 16, Ecclesiastes, also by Solomon; 17, the Song of Songs, also by Solomon; 18, the book of the Prophet Isaiah; 19, of Jeremiah; 20, of Ezekiel; 21, of Daniel; 22, of the Twelve Prophets.

34. Why is there no notice taken in this enumeration of the books of the Old Testament of the book of the Wisdom of the son of Sirach, and of certain others?

Because they do not exist in the Hebrew.

35. How are we to regard these last-named books?

Athanasius the Great says that they have been appointed of the Fathers to be read by proselytes who are preparing for admission into the Church.

36. Is there any division of the books of the Old Testament by which you can give a more distinct account of their contents?

They may be divided into the four following classes:

1. Books of the Law, which form the basis of the Old Testament.

2. Historical books, which contain principally the history of religion.

3. Doctrinal, which contain the doctrine of religion.

4. Prophetical, which contain prophecies, or predictions of things future, and especially of Jesus Christ.

37. Which are the books of the Law?

The five books written by Moses--Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy.

Jesus Christ himself gives to these books the general name of the law of Moses. (Luke 24:44)

38. What in particular is contained in the book of Genesis?

The account of the creation of the world and of man and afterwards the history and ordinances of religion in the first ages of mankind.

39. What is contained in the other four books of Moses?

The history of religion in the time of the Prophet Moses, and the Law given through him from God.

40. Which are the historical books of the Old Testament?

The books of Jesus the son of Nun, Judges, Ruth, Kings, Paralipomena, the book of Esdras, and the books of Nehemiah and Esther.

41. Which are the doctrinal?

The book of Job, the Psalms, and the books of Solomon.

42. What should we remark in particular of the book of Psalms?

This book, together with the doctrine of religion, contains also allusions to its history, and many prophecies of our Saviour Christ. It is a perfect manual of prayer and praise, and on this account is in continual use in the divine service of the Church.

43. Which books are prophetical?

Those of the Prophets--Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, and the twelve others.

44. How many are the books of the New Testament?

Twenty-seven.

45. Are there among these any which answer to the books of the Law, or form the basis of the New Testament?

Yes. The Gospel, which consists of the four books of the Evangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.

46. What means the word Gospel?

It is the same as the Greek work Evangely, and means good or joyful tidings.

47. Of what have we good tidings in the books called the Gospel?

Of the Divinity of our Lord Jesus Christ, of his advent and life on earth, of his miracles and saving doctrine, and, finally, of his death upon the cross, his glorious resurrection, and ascension into heaven.

48. Why are these books called the Gospel?

Because man can have no better nor more joyful tidings than these, of a Divine Saviour and everlasting salvation. For the same cause, whenever the Gospel is read in the church, it is prefaced and accompanied by the joyful exclamation, Glory be to thee, O Lord, glory be to thee.

49. Are any of the books of the New Testament historical?

Yes. One: the book of the Acts of the holy Apostles.

50. Of what does it give an account?

Of the descent of the Holy Spirit on the Apostles, and of the extension through them of Christ's Church.

51. What is an Apostle?

The word means a messenger. It is the name given to those disciples of our Lord Jesus Christ whom he sent to preach the Gospel.

52. Which books of the New Testament are doctrinal?

The seven general Epistles: namely, one of the Apostle James, two of Peter, three of John, and one of Jude; and fourteen Epistles of the Apostle Paul: namely, one to the Romans, two to the Corinthians, one to the Galatians, one to the Ephesians, one to the Philippians, one to the Colossians, two to the Thessalonians, two to Timothy, one to Titus, one to Philemon, and one to the Hebrews.

53. Are there also among the books of the New Testament any prophetical?

Such is the book of the Apocalypse.

54. What means this word Apocalypse?

It is Greek, and means revelation.

55. What are the contents of this book?

A mystical representation of the future destinies of the Christian Church; and of the whole world.

56. What rules must we observe in reading holy Scripture?

First, we must read it devoutly, as the Word of God, and with prayer to understand it aright; secondly, we must read it with a pure desire of instruction in faith, and incitement to good works; thirdly, we must take and understand it in such sense as agrees with the interpretation of the orthodox Church and the holy Fathers.

57. When the Church proposes the doctrine of Divine Revelation and of holy Scripture to people for the first time, what signs does she offer that it is really the Word of God?

Signs of this are the following:

1. The sublimity of this doctrine, which witnesses that it can not be any invention of man's reason.

2. The purity of this doctrine, which shows that it is from the all-pure mind of God.

3. Prophecies.

4. Miracles.

5. The mighty effect of this doctrine upon the hearts of men, beyond all but divine power.

58. In what way are prophecies signs of a true revelation from God?

This may be shown by an example. When the Prophet Isaiah foretold the birth of the Saviour Christ from a virgin, a thing which the natural reason of man could not have so much as imagined, and when, some hundred years after this prophecy, our Lord Jesus Christ was born of the most pure Virgin Mary, it was impossible not to see that the prophecy was the word of the Omniscient, and its fulfillment the work of the Almighty God. Wherefore also the holy Evangelist Matthew, when relating the birth of Christ, brings forward the prophecy of Isaiah: But all this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the Prophet, saying: Behold a Virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which, being interpreted, is, God with us. (Matthew 1:22-23)

59. What are miracles?

Acts which can be done by no power or art of man, but only by the almighty power of God: for example, to raise the dead.

60. How do miracles serve for a sign that the word spoken is from God?

He who does true miracles works by the power of God; consequently he is in favor with God, and partaker of the divine Spirit; but to such it must belong to speak only the pure truth; and so, when such a man speaks in God's name, we are sure that by his mouth there speaketh really the Word of God.

On this account our Lord Jesus Christ himself owns miracles as a powerful testimony to his divine mission: The works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me, that the father hath sent me. (John 5:36)

61. Whence may we more particularly see the mighty effect of the doctrine of Christ?

From this: that twelve Apostles, taken from among poor and unlearned people, of the lowest class, by this doctrine overcame and subdued to Christ the mighty, the wise, and the rich, kings and their kingdoms.

The Composition of the Catechism.

62. What may be a good order for setting forth a catechetical instruction in religion?

For this we may follow the book of the Orthodox Confession, approved by the Eastern Patriarchs, and take as our basis the saying of the Apostle Paul, that the whole energies of a Christian, during this present life, consist in these three: faith, hope, charity. And now abideth faith, hope, charity; these three. (1 Corinthians 13:13)

And so the Christian needs: First, Doctrine on faith in God, and on the Sacraments which he reveals; Secondly, Doctrine on hope towards God, and on the means of being grounded in it; Thirdly, Doctrine on love to God, and all that he commands us to love.

63. What does the Church use as her instrument to introduce us to the doctrine of faith?

The Creed.

64. What may we take as a guide for the doctrine of hope?

Our Lord's Beatitudes and the Lord's Prayer.

65. Where may we find the elements of the doctrine of charity?

In the Ten Commandments of the Law of God.

c179

Part One: On Faith.

On the Creed generally, and on its Origin.

66. What is the Creed?

The Creed is an exposition, in few but precise words, of that doctrine which all Christians are bound to believe.

67. What are the words, of this exposition?

They are as follows:

1. I believe in one God the Father, Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth, and of all things visible and invisible;

2. And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the only-begotten, begotten of the Father before all worlds, Light of light, very God of very God, begotten, not made, of one substance with the Father, by whom all things were made;

3. Who for us men, and for our salvation, came down from heaven, and was incarnate of the Holy Spirit, and of the Virgin Mary, and was made man;

4. And was crucified for us, under Pontius Pilate, and suffered, and was buried;

5. And rose again the Third Day according to the Scripture;

6. And ascended into heaven, and sitteth on the right hand of the Father;

7. And he shall come again with glory to judge the quick and the dead, whose kingdom shall have no end.

8. And I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the Giver of life, who proceedeth from the Father, who with the Father and the Son together is worshiped and glorified, who spake by the Prophets.

9. I believe one holy, catholic, and Apostolic Church.

10. I acknowledge one baptism for the remission of sins.

11. I look for the resurrection of the dead;

12. And the life of the world to come. Amen.

68. From whom have we this exposition of the faith?

From the Fathers of the First and Second Ecumenical Councils.

69. What is an Ecumenical Council?

An assembly of the Pastors and Doctors of the catholic Church of Christ, as far as possible, from the whole world, for the confirmation of true doctrine and holy discipline among Christians.

70. How many Ecumenical Councils have there been?

Seven: 1, Of Nicæa (325); 2, Of Constantinople (381); 3, Of Ephesus (431); 4, Of Chalcedon (451); 5, The Second of Constantinople (553); 6, The Third of Constantinople (680-81); 7, The Second of Nicæa (787).

71. Whence is the rule for assembling Councils?

From the example of the Apostles, who held a Council in Jerusalem. (Acts 15) This is grounded also upon the words of Jesus Christ himself, which give to the decisions of the Church such weight that whosoever disobeys them is left deprived of grace as a heathen. But the mean, by which the ecumenical Church utters her decisions, is an Ecumenical Council.

Tell it unto the Church; but if he neglect to hear the Church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. (Matthew 18:17)

72. What were the particular occasions for assembling the First and Second Ecumenical Councils, at which the Creed was defined?

The First was held for the confirmation of the true doctrine respecting the Son of God, against the error of Arius, who thought unworthily of the Son of God; the Second, for the confirmation of the true doctrine respecting the Holy Spirit, against Macedonius, who thought unworthily of the Holy Spirit.

73. Is it long ago that these Councils were held?

The First was held in the year 325 from the birth of Christ; the Second in 381.

On the Articles of the Creed.

74. What method shall we follow in order the better to understand the ecumenical Creed?

We must notice its division into Twelve Articles or parts, and consider each Article separately.

75. What is spoken of in each several Article of the Creed?

The First Article of the Creed speaks of God as the prime origin, more particularly of the first Person of the Holy Trinity, God the Father, and of God as the Creator of the world;

The Second Article, of the second Person of the Holy Trinity, Jesus Christ, the Son of God;

The Third Article, of the incarnation of the Son of God;

The Fourth Article, of the suffering and death of Jesus Christ;

The Fifth Article, of the resurrection of Jesus Christ;

The Sixth Article, of the ascension of Jesus Christ into heaven;

The Seventh Article, of the Second Coming of Jesus Christ upon earth;

The Eighth Article, of the third Person of the Holy Trinity, the Holy Spirit;

The Ninth Article, of the Church;

The Tenth Article, of Baptism, under which are implied the other Sacraments also;

The Eleventh Article, of the future resurrection of the dead;

The Twelfth Article, of the life everlasting.

On the First Article.

76. What is it to believe in God?

To believe in God is to have a lively belief of his being, his attributes, and works; and to receive with all the heart his revealed Word respecting the salvation of men.

77. Can you show from holy Scripture that faith in God must consist in this?

The Apostle Paul writes: Without faith it is impossible to please God; for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them, that diligently seek him. (Hebrews 11:6)

The same Apostle expresses the effect of faith on Christians in the following prayer for them to God: That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. (Ephesians 3:16-17)

78. What must be the immediate and constant effect of a hearty faith in God?

The confession of this same faith.

79. What is the confession of the faith?

It is openly to avow that we hold the orthodox faith, and this with such sincerity and firmness that neither seductions, nor threats, nor tortures, nor death itself may be able to make us deny our faith in the true God and in our Lord Jesus Christ.

80. For what is the confession of the faith necessary?

The Apostle Paul witnesses that it is necessary for salvation. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. (Romans 10:10)

81. Why is it necessary to salvation not only to believe, but also to confess the orthodox faith?

Because if any one, to preserve his temporal life or earthly goods, shrink from confessing the orthodox faith, he shows thereby that he has not a true faith in God the Saviour, and the life of happiness to come.

82. Why is it not said in the Creed simply, I believe in God, rather than with the addition, in one God?

In order to contradict the error of the heathen, who, taking the creature for God, thought there were many gods.

83. What does holy Scripture teach us of the unity of God?

The very words of the Creed on this point are taken from the following passage of the Apostle Paul: There is none other God but one. For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as there be gods many, and lords many, but to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in him; and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him. (1 Corinthians 8:4-6)

84. Can we know the very essence of God?

No. It is above all knowledge, not of men only, but of angels.

85. How does holy Scripture speak on this point?

The Apostle Paul says, that God dwelleth in the light, which no man can approach unto, whom no man hath seen, nor can see. (1 Timothy 6:16)

86. What idea of the essence and essential attributes of God may be derived from divine revelation?

That God is a) a Spirit, b) eternal, c) all-good, d) omniscient, e) all-just, f) almighty, g) omnipresent, h) unchangeable, i) all-sufficing to himself, j) all-blessed.

87. Show all this from holy Scripture.

a) Jesus Christ himself has said that God is a Spirit. (John 4:24)

b) Of the eternity of God David says: Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever the earth and the world were made, Thou art from everlasting and world without end. (Psalm 90:2) In the Apocalypse we read the following doxology to God: Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come. (Revelation 4:8) The Apostle Paul says that the Gospel was made manifest according to the commandment of the everlasting God. (Romans 16:26)

c) Of the goodness of God Jesus Christ himself said: There is none good but one, that is God. (Matthew 19:17) The Apostle John says: God is Love. (1 John 4:16) David sings: The Lord is gracious and merciful, long-suffering, and of great goodness. The Lord is loving unto every man, and his mercies are over all his works. (Psalm 145:8-9)

d) Of the omniscience of God the Apostle John says: God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things. (1 John 3:20) The Apostle Paul exclaims: O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. (Romans 11:33)

e) Of the justice of God David sings: The righteous Lord loveth righteousness, his countenance will behold the thing that is just. (Psalm 11:7) The Apostle Paul says that God will render to every man according to his deeds, and that there is no respect of persons with God. (Romans 2:6, 11)

f) Of the almighty power of God the Psalmist says: He spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast. (Psalm 33:9) The archangel says in the Gospel: With God nothing shall be impossible. (Luke 1:37)

g) The omnipresence of God David describes thus: Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? or whither shall I go from thy presence? If I climb up into heaven, thou art there; if I go down to hell, thou art there also. If I take the wings of the morning, and remain in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say, Peradventure the darkness shall cover me; then shall my night be turned to day. Yea, the darkness is no darkness with thee, but the night is as clear as the day; the darkness and light to thee are both alike. (Psalm 139:7-12)

h) The Apostle James says that With the Father of lights there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. (James 1:17)

i) The Apostle Paul states that God receiveth not worship of men's hands as though he needed any thing, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things. (Acts 17:25)

j) The same Apostle calls God The blessed and only potentate, the King of kings and Lord of lords. (1 Timothy 6:15)

88. If God is a Spirit, how does holy Scripture ascribe to him bodily parts, as heart, eyes, ears, hands?

Holy Scripture in this suits itself to the common language of men; but we are to understand such expressions in a higher and spiritual sense. For instance, the heart of God means his goodness or love; eyes and ears mean his omniscience; hands, his almighty power.

89. If God is everywhere, how do men say that God is in heaven, or in the church?

God is everywhere; but in heaven he has a special presence manifested in everlasting glory to the blessed spirits; also in churches he has, through grace and sacraments, a special presence devoutly recognized and felt by believers, and manifested sometimes by extraordinary signs.

Jesus Christ says: Where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them. (Matthew 18:20)

90. How are we to understand these words of the Creed, I believe in one God the Father?

This is to be understood with reference to the mystery of the Holy Trinity; because God is one in substance but trine in persons--the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit--a Trinity consubstantial and undivided.

91. How does holy Scripture speak of the Blessed Trinity?

The chief texts on this point in the New Testament are the following: Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. (Matthew 28:19) There are three that bear record in heaven--the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit; and these three are one. (1 John 5:7)

92. Is the Holy Trinity mentioned in the Old Testament also?

Yes; only not so clearly. For instance: By the Word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the hosts of them by the Breath of his mouth. (Psalm 33:6) Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord of Hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory. (Isaiah 6:3)

93. How is one God in three Persons?

We can not comprehend this inner mystery of the Godhead; but we believe it on the infallible testimony of the Word of God. The things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God. (1 Corinthians 2:11)

94. What difference is there between the Persons of the Holy Trinity?

God the Father is neither begotten, nor proceeds from any other Person: the Son of God is from all eternity begotten of the Father: the Holy Spirit from all eternity proceeds from the Father.

95. Are the three Hypostases or Persons of the Most Holy Trinity all of equal majesty?

Yes; all of absolutely equal divine majesty. The Father is true God, the Son equally true God, and the Holy Spirit true God; but yet so that in the three Persons there is only one Tri-personal God.

96. Why is God called the Almighty(Παντοκράτορ, Pantocrator)?

Because he upholds all things by his power and his will.

97. What is expressed by the words of the Creed, Maker of heaven and earth, and of all things visible and invisible?

This: that all was made by God, and that nothing can be without God.

98. Are not these words taken from holy Scripture?

They are. The book of Genesis begins thus: In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.

The Apostle Paul, speaking of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, says: By him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him, and for him. (Colossians 1:16)

99. What is meant in the Creed by the word invisible?

The invisible or spiritual world, to which belong the angels.

100. What are the angels?

Incorporeal spirits, having intelligence, will, and power.

101. What means the name angel?

It means a messenger.

102. Why are they so called?

Because God sends them to announce his will. Thus, for instance, Gabriel was sent to announce to the Most Holy Virgin Mary the conception of the Saviour.

103. Which was created first, the visible world or the invisible?

The invisible was created before the visible, and the angels before men. (Orthod. Confess. Pt. I. Q. 18.)

104. Can we find any testimony to this in holy Scripture?

In the book of Job God himself speaks of the earth thus: Who laid the corner-stone thereof? When the stars were CREATED, all my angels praised me with a loud voice. (Job 38:6-7)

105. Whence is taken the name of guardian angels?

From the following words of holy Scripture: He shall give his angels charge over thee, to guard thee in, all thy ways. (Psalm 91:11)

106. Has each one of us his guardian angels?

Without doubt. Of this we may be assured from the following words of Jesus Christ: Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones: for I say unto you, that in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father, which is in heaven. (Matthew 18:10)

107. Are all angels good and beneficent?

No. There are also evil angels, otherwise called devils.

108. How came they to be evil?

They were created good, but they swerved from their duty of perfect obedience to God, and so fell away from him into self-will, pride, and malice. According to the words of the Apostle Jude, they are the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation. (Jude 6)

109. What means the name devil?

It means slanderer or deceiver.

110. Why are the evil angels called devils that is, slanderers or deceivers?

Because they are ever laying snares for men, seeking to deceive them, and inspire them with false notions and evil wishes.

Of this Jesus Christ, speaking to the unbelieving Jews, says: Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. (John 8:44)

111. What has holy Scripture revealed to us of the creation of the world?

In the beginning God created from nothing the heaven and the earth; and the earth was without form and void. Afterwards God successively produced: on the first day of the world, light; on the second, the firmament or visible heaven; on the third, the gathering together of waters on the earth, the dry land, and what grows thereupon; on the fourth, the sun, moon, and stars; on the fifth, fishes and birds; on the sixth, four-footed creatures living on the earth, and lastly, man. With man the creation finished; and on the Seventh Day God rested from all his works. Hence the Seventh Day was called the Sabbath, which in the Hebrew tongue means Rest. (Genesis 2:2)

112. Were the visible creatures created such as we see them now?

No. At the creation everything was very good, that is, pure, beautiful, and harmless.

113. Are we not informed of something particular in the creation of man?

God in the Holy Trinity said: Let us make man in our own image, and after our likeness. (Genesis 1:26) And God made the body of the first man, Adam, from the earth; breathed into his nostrils the breath of life (Genesis 2:7); brought him into Paradise (Genesis 2:8); gave him for food, beside the other fruits of Paradise, the fruit of the tree of life (Genesis 2:16); and lastly, having taken a rib from Adam while he slept, made from it the first woman, Eve. (Genesis 2:21-22)

114. In what consists the image of God?

It consists, as explained by the Apostle Paul, In righteousness and holiness of truth. (Ephesians 4:24)

115. What is the breath of life?

The soul, a substance spiritual and immortal.

116. What is Paradise?

The word Paradise means a garden. It is the name given to the fair and blissful abode of the first man, described in the book of Genesis as like a garden.

117. Was the Paradise in which man first lived material or spiritual?

For the body it was material, a visible and blissful abode; but for the soul it was spiritual, a state of communion by grace with God, and spiritual contemplation of the creatures. (Greg. Theol. Serm, xxxviii. 42; J. Damasc. Theol. lib. ii. cap. 12, § 3.)

118. What was the tree of life?

A tree, by feeding on whose fruit man would have been, even in the body, free from disease and death.

119. Why was Eve made from a rib of Adam?

To the intent that all mankind might be by origin naturally disposed to love and defend one another.

120. With what design did God create man?

With this, that he should know God, love, and glorify him, and so be happy forever.

121. Has not that will of God, by which man is designed for eternal happiness, its own proper name in theology?

It is called the predestination of God.

122. Does God's predestination of man to happiness remain unchanged, seeing that now man is not happy?

It remains unchanged; inasmuch as God, of his foreknowledge and infinite mercy, hath predestined to open for man, even after his departure from the way of happiness, a new way to happiness, through his only-begotten Son Jesus Christ.

He hath chosen us, in him, before the foundation of the world, are the words of the Apostle Paul. (Ephesians 1:4)

123. How are we to understand the predestination of God, with respect to men in general, and to each man severally?

God has predestined to give to all men, and has actually given them preparatory grace, and means sufficient for the attainment of happiness.

124. What is said of this by the Word of God?

For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate. (Romans 8:29)

125. How does the orthodox Church speak on this point?

In the exposition of the faith by the Eastern Patriarchs it is said: As he foresaw that some would use well their free will, but others ill, he accordingly predestined the former to glory, while the latter he condemned. (Art. iii.)

126. What divine energy with respect to the world, and especially to man, follows immediately upon their creation?

Divine providence.

127. What is divine providence?

Divine providence is the constant energy of the almighty power, wisdom, and goodness of God, by which he preserves the being and faculties of his creatures, directs them to good ends, and assists all that is good; but the evil that springs by departure from good he either cuts off, or corrects it, and turns it to good results.

128. How does holy Scripture speak of God's providence?

Jesus Christ himself says: Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? Matt. vi. 26. From these words is shown at once God's general providence over the creatures, and his special providence over man.

The whole of the ninety-first Psalm is a description of God's special and manifold providence over man.

On the Second Article.

129. How are we to understand the names Jesus Christ, the Son of God?

Son of God is the name of the second Person of the Holy Trinity in respect of his Godhead: This same Son of God was called Jesus, when he was conceived and born on earth as man; Christ is the name given him by the Prophets, while they were as yet expecting his advent upon earth.

130. What means the name Jesus?

Saviour.

131. By whom was the name Jesus first given?

By the Angel Gabriel.

132. Why was this name given to the Son of God at his conception and birth on earth?

Because he was conceived and born to save men.

133. What means the name Christ?

Anointed.

134. Whence came the name Anointed?

From the anointing with holy ointment, through which are bestowed the gifts of the Holy Spirit.

135. Is it only Jesus, the Son of God, who is called Anointed?

No. Anointed was in old time a title of kings, high-priests, and prophets.

136. Why, then, is Jesus, the Son of God, called The Anointed?

Because to his manhood were imparted without measure all the gifts of the Holy Spirit; and so he possesses in the highest degree the knowledge of a prophet, the holiness of a high-priest, and the power of a king.

137. In what sense is Jesus Christ called Lord?

In this sense: that he is very God; for the name Lord is one of the names of God.

138. What says holy Scripture of the divinity of Jesus Christ, the Son of God?

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. (John 1:1)

139. Why is Jesus Christ called the Son of God, Only-begotten?

By this is signified that he only is the Son of God begotten of the substance of God the Father; and so is of one substance with the Father; and consequently excels, beyond comparison, all holy angels and holy men, who are called sons of God by grace. (John 1:12)

140. Does holy Scripture call Jesus the Only-begotten?

It does. For instance, in the following places of the Evangelist John: The Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the Only-begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. (John 1:14) No man hath, seen God at any time; the Only-begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. (John 1:18)

141. Why in the Creed is it said further of the Son of God that he is begotten of the Father?

By this is expressed that personal property by which he is distinguished from the other Persons of the Holy Trinity.

142. Why is it said that he is begotten before all worlds?

That none should think there was ever a time when he was not. In other words, by this is expressed that Jesus Christ is the Son of God from everlasting, even as God the Father is from everlasting.

143. What mean in the Creed the words Light of Light?

Under the figure of the visible light they in some manner explain the incomprehensible generation of the Son of God from the Father. When we look at the sun, we see light: from this light is generated the light visible everywhere beneath; but both the one and the other is one light, indivisible, and of one nature. In like manner, God the Father is the everlasting Light. (1 John 1:5) Of him is begotten the Son of God, who also is the everlasting Light; but God the Father and God the Son are one and the same everlasting Light, indivisible, and of one divine nature.

144. What force is there in the words of the Creed, Very God of very God?

This: that the Son of God is called God in the same proper sense as God the Father.

145. Are not these words from holy Scripture?

Yes. They are taken from the following passage of John the Divine: We know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us [light and] understanding, that we may know the true God, and be in him that is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. (1 John 5:20)

146. Why is it further added of the Son of God in the Creed that he is begotten, not made?

This was added against Arius, who impiously taught that the Son of God was made.

147. What mean the words, Of one substance with the Father?

They mean that the Son of God is of one and the same divine substance with God the Father.

148. How does holy Scripture speak of this?

Jesus Christ himself speaks of himself and of God the Father thus: I and the Father are one. (John 10:30)

149. What is shown by the next words in the Creed, By whom all things were made?

This: that God the Father created all things by his Son, as by his eternal Wisdom and his eternal Word.

All things were made by him, and without him was not any thing made which was made. (John 1:3)

On the Third Article.

150. Of whom is it said in the Creed, that he came down from heaven?

Of the Son of God.

151. How came he down from heaven, seeing that as God he is everywhere?

It is true that he is everywhere; and so he is always in heaven, and always on earth; but on earth he was before invisible; afterwards he appeared in the flesh. In this sense it is said that he came down from heaven.

152. How does holy Scripture speak of this?

I will repeat Jesus Christ's own words: No man hath ascended up to heaven but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of Man which is in heaven. (John 3:13)

153. Wherefore did the Son of God come down from heaven?

For us men, and for our salvation, as it is said in the Creed.

154. In what sense is it said that the Son of God came down from heaven for us men?

In this sense: that he came upon earth not for one nation, nor for some men only, but for us men universally.

155. To save men from what did he come upon earth?

From sin, the curse, and death.

156. What is sin?

Transgression of the law. Sin is the transgression of the law. (1 John 3:4)

157. Whence is sin in men, seeing that they were created in the image of God, and God can not sin?

From the devil. He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. (1 John 3:8)

158. How did sin pass from the devil to men?

The devil deceived Eve and Adam, and induced them to transgress God's commandment.

159. What commandment?

God commanded Adam in Paradise not to eat of the fruit of the Tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and withal told him, that so soon as he ate thereof he should surely die.

160. Why did it bring death to man to eat of the fruit of the Tree of the knowledge of good and evil?

Because it involved disobedience to God's will, and so separated man from God and his grace, and alienated him from the life of God.

161. What propriety is there in the name of the Tree of the knowledge of good and evil?

Man through this tree came to know by the act itself what good there is in obeying the will of God, and what evil in disobeying it.

162. How could Adam and Eve listen to the devil against the will of God?

God of his goodness, at the creation of man, gave him a will naturally disposed to love God, but still free; and man used this freedom for evil.

163. How did the devil deceive Adam and Eve?

Eve saw in Paradise a serpent, which assured her that if men ate of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, they would know good and evil, and would become as gods. Eve was deceived by this promise, and by the fairness of the fruit, and ate of it. Adam ate after her example.

164. What came of Adam's sin?

The curse, and death.

165. What is the curse?

The condemnation of sin by God's just judgment, and the evil which from sin came upon the earth for the punishment of men. God said to Adam, Cursed is the ground for thy sake. (Genesis 3:17)

166. What is the death which came from the sin of Adam?

It is twofold: bodily, when the body loses the soul which quickened it; and spiritual, when the soul loses the grace of God, which quickened it with the higher and spiritual life.

167. Can the soul, then, die as well as the body?

It can die, but not so as the body. The body, when it dies, loses sense, and is dissolved; the soul, when it dies by sin, loses spiritual light, joy, and happiness, but is not dissolved nor annihilated, but remains in a state of darkness, anguish, and suffering.

168. Why did not the first man only die, and not all, as now?

Because all have come of Adam since his infection by sin, and all sin themselves. As from an infected source there naturally flows an infected stream, so from a father infected with sin, and consequently mortal, there naturally proceeds a posterity infected like him with sin, and like him mortal.

169. How is this spoken of in holy Scripture?

By one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. (Romans 5:12)

170. Had man any benefit from the fruit of the tree of life after he had sinned?

After he had sinned, he could no more eat of it, for he was driven out of Paradise.

171. Had men, then, any hope left of salvation?

When our first parents had confessed before God their sin, God, of his mercy, gave them a hope of salvation.

172. In what consisted this hope?

God promised that the seed of the woman should bruise the serpent’s head. (Genesis 3:15)

173. What did that mean?

This: that Jesus Christ should overcome the devil who had deceived men, and deliver them from sin, the curse, and death.

174. Why is Jesus Christ called the seed of the woman?

Because he was born on earth without man, from the Most Holy Virgin Mary.

175. What benefit was there in this promise?

This: that from the time of the promise men could believe savingly in the Saviour that was to come, even as we now believe in the Saviour that has come.

176. Did people, in fact, in old time believe in the Saviour that was to come?

Some did, but the greater part forgot God's promise of a Saviour.

177. Did not God repeat this promise?

More than once. For instance, he made to Abraham the promise of a Saviour in the following words: In thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. (Genesis 22:18) The same promise he repeated afterwards to David in the following words: I will set up thy seed after thee, and I will establish his throne forever. (2 Samuel 7:12-13)

178. What do we understand by the word incarnation?

That the Son of God took to himself human flesh without sin, and was made man, without ceasing to be God.

179. Whence is taken the word incarnation?

From the words of the Evangelist John: The Word was made flesh. (John 1:14)

180. Why in the Creed, after it has been said of the Son of God that he was incarnate, is it further added that he was made man?

To the end that none should imagine that the Son of God took only flesh or a body, but should acknowledge in him a perfect man consisting of body and soul.

181. Have we for this any testimony of holy Scripture?

The Apostle Paul writes: There is one Mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. (1 Timothy 2:5)

182. And so is there only one nature in Jesus Christ?

No. There are in him, without separation and without confusion, two natures, the divine and the human, and answering to these natures two wills.

183. Are there not, therefore, two persons?

No. One person, God and man together; in one word, a God-man.

184. What says holy Scripture of the incarnation of the Son of God by the Holy Spirit of the Virgin Mary?

The Evangelist Luke relates that when the Virgin Mary had asked the angel, who announced to her the conception of Jesus, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? The angel replied to her: The Holy Spirit shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee : therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. (Luke 1:34-35)

185. Who was the Virgin Mary?

A holy virgin of the lineage of Abraham and David, from whose lineage the Saviour, by God's promise, was to come; betrothed to Joseph, a man of the same lineage, in order that he might be her guardian; for she was dedicated to God with a vow of perpetual virginity.

186. Did the Most Holy Mary remain, in fact, ever a virgin?

She remained and remains a virgin before the birth, during the birth, and after the birth of the Saviour; and therefore is called ever-virgin.

187. What other great title is there with which the Orthodox Church honors the Most Holy Virgin Mary?

That of Mother of God.

188. Can you show the origin of this title in holy Scripture?

It is taken from the following words of the Prophet Isaiah : Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a Son, and they shall call his name Immanuel, which, being interpreted, is, God with us. (Isaiah 7:14; Matthew 1:23)

So, also, the righteous Elisabeth calls the Most Holy Virgin The Mother of the Lord; which title is all one with that of Mother of God. Whence is this to me, that the Mother of my Lord should come to me? (Luke 1:43)

189. In what sense is the Most Holy Virgin called Mother of God?

Although Jesus Christ was born of her not after his Godhead, which is eternal, but after the manhood, still she is rightly called the Mother of God; because he that was born of her was, both in the conception itself and in the birth from her, as he ever is, very God.

190. What thoughts should you have of the exalted dignity of the Most Holy Virgin Mary?

As Mother of the Lord she excels in grace and nearness to God, and so also in dignity, every created being; and therefore the Orthodox Church honors her far above the cherubim and seraphim.

191. What is there further to be remarked of the birth of Jesus Christ from the Most Holy Mother of God?

This: that since this birth was perfectly holy and void of sin, it was also without pain; for it was among the penalties of sin that God ordained Eve in sorrows to bring forth children. (J. Damasc. Theol. lib. iv. cap. 14, 6.)

192. What tokens had God's providence prepared, that men might know the Saviour, when he was born to them?

Many exact predictions of various circumstances of his birth and life on earth. For instance, the Prophet Isaiah foretold that the Saviour should be born of a virgin. (Isaiah 7:14; Matthew 1:23) The Prophet Micah foretold that the Saviour should be born in Bethlehem; and this prophecy the Jews understood even before they heard of its fulfillment. (Micah 5:2; Matthew 2:4-6) The Prophet Malachi, after the building of the Second Temple at Jerusalem, foretold that the coming of the Saviour was drawing nigh, that he should come to this temple, and that before him should be sent a forerunner like unto the Prophet Elijah, clearly pointing by this to John the Baptist. (Malachi 3:1, 4:5; Matthew 3:3, 11:14) The Prophet Zachariah foretold the triumphal entry of the Saviour into Jerusalem. (Zechariah 9:9; John 12:14-15) The Prophet Isaiah, with wonderful clearness, foretold the sufferings of the Saviour. (Isaiah 53) David, in the twenty-second Psalm, described the sufferings of the Saviour on the cross with as great exactness as if he had written at the foot of the cross itself. And Daniel, 490 years before, foretold the appearance of the Saviour, his death on the cross, and the subsequent destruction of the temple and of Jerusalem, and abolition of the Old Testament sacrifices. (Daniel 9)

193. Did men, in fact, recognize Jesus Christ as the Saviour at the time that he was born and lived upon earth?

Many did recognize him by various ways. The wise men of the East recognized him by a star, which before his birth appeared in the East. The shepherds of Bethlehem knew of him from angels, who distinctly told them that the Saviour was born in the City of David. Simeon and Anna, by special revelation of the Holy Spirit, knew him when he was brought, forty days after his birth, into the temple. John the Baptist, at the river Jordan, at his baptism, knew him by revelation, by the descent of the Holy Spirit upon him in the form of a dove, and by a voice from heaven from God the Father: This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. (Matthew 3:17) A like voice was heard of him by the Apostles Peter, James, and John, at the time of his transfiguration on the mount: This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased: hear him. (Mark 9:7) Besides this, very many recognized him by the excellence of his doctrine, and especially by the miracles which he wrought.

194. What miracles did Jesus Christ work?

People suffering under incurable diseases, and possessed by demons, were healed by him in the twinkling of an eye, by a single word, or by the touch of his hand, and even through their touching his garment. Once with five, at another time with seven loaves he fed in the wilderness several thousand men. He walked on the waters, and by a word calmed the storm. He raised the dead: the son of the widow of Nain, the daughter of Jairus, and Lazarus on the fourth day after his death.

195. You said that the Son of God was incarnate for our salvation: in what way did he effect it?

By his doctrine, his life, his death, and resurrection.

196. What was Christ's doctrine?

The Gospel of the kingdom of God, or, in other words, the doctrine of salvation and eternal happiness, the same that is now taught in the Orthodox Church. (Mark 1:14-15)

197. How have we salvation by Christ's doctrine?

When we receive it with all our heart, and walk according to it. For, as the lying words of the devil, received by our first parents, became in them the seed of sin and death; so, on the contrary, the true Word of Christ, heartily received by Christians, becomes in them the seed of a holy and immortal life. They are, in the words of the Apostle Peter, born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the Word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. (1 Peter 1:23)

198. How have we salvation by Christ's life?

When we imitate it. For he says, If any one serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be. (John 12:26)

On the Fourth Article.

199. How came it to pass that Jesus Christ was crucified, when his doctrine and works should have moved all to reverence him?

The elders of the Jews and the scribes hated him, because he rebuked their false doctrine and evil lives, and envied him, because the people, which heard him teach and saw his miracles, esteemed him more than them; and hence they falsely accused him, and condemned him to death.

200. Why is it said that Jesus Christ was crucified under Pontius Pilate?

To mark the time when he was crucified.

201. Who was Pontius Pilate?

The Roman governor of Judæa, which had become subject to the Romans.

202. Why is this circumstance worthy of remark?

Because in it we see the fulfillment of Jacob's prophecy: The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come: and He is the desire of the nations. (Genesis 49:10)

203. Why is it not only said in the Creed that Jesus Christ was crucified, but also added that he suffered?

To show that his crucifixion was not only a semblance of suffering and death, as some heretics said, but a real suffering and death.

204. Why is it also mentioned that he was buried?

This likewise is to assure us that he really died, and rose again; for his enemies even set a watch at his sepulchre, and sealed it.

205. How could Jesus Christ suffer and die when he was God?

He suffered and died, not in his Godhead, but in his manhood; and this not because he could not avoid it, but because it pleased him to suffer.

He himself had said: I lay down my life, that I may take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. (John 10:17-18)

206. In what sense is it said that Jesus Christ was crucified for us?

In this sense: that he, by his death on the cross, delivered us from a) sin, b) the curse, and c) death.

207. How does holy Scripture speak of this deliverance?

a) Of deliverance from sin: In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. (Ephesians 1:7)

b) Of deliverance from the curse: Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law being made a curse for us. (Galatians 3:13)

c) Of deliverance from death: Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that hath the power of death, that is, the devil; and deliver them who, through fear of death, were all their lifetime subject to bondage. (Hebrews 2:14-15)

208. How does the death of Jesus Christ upon the cross deliver us from sin, the curse, and death?

That we may the more readily believe this mystery, the Word of God teaches us of it, so much as we may be able to receive, by the comparison of Jesus Christ with Adam. Adam is by nature the head of all mankind, which is one with him by natural descent from him. Jesus Christ, in whom the Godhead is united with manhood, graciously made himself the new almighty Head of men, whom he unites to himself through faith. Therefore as in Adam we had fallen under sin, the curse, and death, so we are delivered from sin, the curse, and death in Jesus Christ. His voluntary suffering and death on the cross for us, being of infinite value and merit, as the death of one sinless, God and man in one person, is both a perfect satisfaction to the justice of God, which had condemned us for sin to death, and a fund of infinite merit, which has obtained him the right, without prejudice to justice, to give us sinners pardon of our sins, and grace to have victory over sin and death.

God hath willed to make known to his saints what is the riches of the glory of this mystery of the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. (Colossians 1:26-27)

For if by one man's offense death reigned by one, much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ. (Romans 5:17)

There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. For the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and, death. For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh; that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. (Romans 8:1-4)

209. Was it for us all, strictly speaking, that Jesus Christ suffered?

For his part, he offered himself as a sacrifice strictly for all, and obtained for all grace and salvation; but this benefits only those of us who, for their parts, of their own free will, have fellowship in his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death. (Philippians 3:10)

210. How can we have fellowship in the sufferings and death of Jesus Christ?

We have fellowship in the sufferings and death of Jesus Christ through a lively and hearty faith, through the Sacraments, in which is contained and sealed the virtue of his saving sufferings and death, and, lastly, through the crucifixion of our flesh with its affections and lusts.

I, says the Apostle, through the law, am dead to the law, that I may live unto God. I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. (Galatians 2:19-20)

Know ye not, that as many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, were baptized into his death? (Romans 6:3)

For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. (1 Corinthians 11:26)

They that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. (Galatians 5:24)

211. How can we crucify the flesh with the affections and lusts?

By bridling the affections and lusts, and by doing what is contrary to them. For instance, when anger prompts us to revile an enemy and to do him harm, but we resist the wish, and, remembering how Jesus Christ on the cross prayed for his enemies, pray likewise for ours; we thus crucify the affection of anger.

On the Fifth Article.

212. What is the first proof and earnest given by Jesus Christ that his sufferings and death have wrought salvation for us men?

This: that he rose again, and so laid the foundation for our like blessed resurrection.

Now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first-fruits of them that slept. (1 Corinthians 15:20)

213. What should we think of the state in which Jesus Christ was after his death, and before his resurrection?

This is described in the following hymn of the Church: In the grave as to the flesh, in hades with thy soul, as God, in paradise with the thief, and on the throne wert thou, O Christ, together with the Father and the Spirit, filling all things, thyself uncircumscribed.

214. What is hades or hell?

Hades is a Greek word, and means a place void of light. In divinity, by this name is understood a spiritual prison, that is, the state of those spirits which are separated by sin from the sight of God's countenance, and from the light and blessedness which it confers. (Jude 6; Octoich. tom. v.; sticher. ii. 4)

215. Wherefore did Jesus Christ descend into hell?

To the end that he might there also preach his victory over death, and deliver the souls which with faith awaited his coming.

216. Does holy Scripture speak of this?

It is referred to in the following passage: For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he may bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened in the Spirit; in which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. (1 Peter 3:18-19)

217. What is there for us to remark on the next words of the Creed: and rose again the Third Day, according to the Scripture?

These words were put into the Creed from the following passage in the Epistle to the Corinthians: For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins, according to the Scripture; and that he was buried, and that he rose again the Third Day, according to the Scripture. (1 Corinthians 15:3-4)

218. What force is there in these words: according to the Scripture?

By this is shown that Jesus Christ died and rose again, precisely as had been written of him prophetically in the books of the Old Testament.

219. Where, for instance, is there any thing written of this?

In the fifty-third chapter of the book of the Prophet Isaiah, for instance, the suffering and death of Jesus Christ is imaged forth with many particular traits: as, He was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed. (Isaiah 53:5)

Of the resurrection of Christ the Apostle Peter quotes the words of the sixteenth Psalm: For why? thou shalt not leave my soul in hell, neither shalt thou suffer thy holy one to see corruption. (Acts 2:27)

220. Is this also in the Scripture of the Old Testament, that Jesus Christ should rise again precisely on the Third Day?

A prophetic type of this was set forth in the Prophet Jonah: And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. (Jonah 1:17)

221. How was it known that Jesus Christ had risen?

The soldiers who watched his sepulchre knew this with terror, because an angel of the Lord rolled away the stone which closed his sepulchre, and at the same time there was a great earthquake. Angels likewise announced the resurrection of Christ to Mary Magdalene and some others. Jesus Christ himself on the very day of his resurrection appeared to many: as to the women bringing spices, to Peter, to the two disciples going to Emmaus, and, lastly, to all the Apostles in the house, the doors being shut. Afterwards he oftentimes showed himself to them during the space of forty days; and one day he was seen of more than five hundred believers at once. (1 Corinthians 15:6)

222. Why did Jesus Christ after his resurrection show himself to the Apostles during the space of forty days?

During this time he continued to teach them the mysteries of the kingdom of God. (Acts 1:3)

c1KD

On the Sixth Article.

223. Is the statement of our Lord's Ascension in the Sixth Article of the Creed taken from holy Scripture?

It is taken from the following passages of holy Scripture: He that descended is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fill all things. (Ephesians 4:10) We have such a High-Priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens. (Hebrews 8:1)

224. Was it in his Godhead or his manhood that Jesus Christ ascended into heaven?

In his manhood. In his Godhead he ever was and is in heaven.

225. How does Jesus Christ sit at the right hand of God the Father, seeing that God is everywhere?

This must be understood spiritually; that is, Jesus Christ has one and the same majesty and glory with God the Father.

On the Seventh Article.

226. How does holy Scripture speak of Christ's coming again?

This Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. (Acts 1:11) This was said to the Apostles by angels at the very time of our Lord's ascension.

227. How does it speak of his future judgment?

The hour is coming, in which all that are in the graves shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and shall come forth: they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation. (John 5:28-29) These are the words of Christ himself.

228. How does it speak of his kingdom which is to have no end?

He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest; and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David; and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end. (Luke 1:32-33) These are the words of the angel to the Mother of God

229. Will the Second Coming of Christ be like his first?

No; very different. He came to suffer for us in great humility, but he shall come to judge us in his glory, and all the holy angels with him. (Matthew 25:31)

230. Will he judge all men?

Yes. All, without exception.

231. How will he judge them?

The conscience of every man shall be laid open before all, and not only all deeds which he has ever done in his whole life upon earth be revealed, but also all the words he has spoken, and all his secret wishes and thoughts. The Lord shall come, who will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the heart: and then shall every man have praise of God. (1 Corinthians 4:5)

232. Will he then condemn us even for evil words or thoughts?

Without doubt he will, unless we efface them by repentance, faith, and amendment of life. I say unto you, that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. (Matthew 12:36)

233. Will Jesus Christ soon come to judgment?

We know not. Therefore we should live so as to be always ready. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness; but is long-suffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. (2 Peter 3:9-10) Watch, therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh. (Matthew 25:13)

234. Are there not, however, revealed to us some signs of the nearer approach of Christ's coming?

In the Word of God certain signs are revealed, as the decrease of faith and love among men, the abounding of iniquity and calamities, the preaching of the Gospel to all nations, and the coming of Antichrist. (Matthew 24)

235. What is Antichrist?

An adversary of Christ, who will strive to overthrow Christianity, but instead of doing so shall himself come to a fearful end. (2 Thessalonians 2:8)

236. What is Christ's kingdom?

Christ's kingdom is, first, the whole world; secondly, all believers upon earth; thirdly, all the blessed in heaven.

The first is called the kingdom of nature; the second, the kingdom of grace; the third, the kingdom of glory.

237. Which of these is meant when it is said in the Creed that of Christ's kingdom there shall be no end?

The kingdom of glory.

On the Eighth Article.

238. In what sense is the Holy Spirit called the Lord?

In the same sense as the Son of God, that is, as very God.

239. Is this witnessed by holy Scripture?

It is plain from the words spoken by the Apostle Peter to rebuke Ananias: Why hath Satan fitted thine heart to lie to the Holy Spirit? and further on, Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God. (Acts 5:3-4)

240. What are we to understand by this, that the Holy Spirit is called the Giver of life?

That he, together with God the Father and the Son, giveth life to all creatures, especially spiritual life to men.

Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he can not enter into the kingdom of God. (John 3:5)

241. Whence know we that the Holy Spirit proceedeth from the Father?

This we know from the following words of Jesus Christ himself: But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me. (John 15:26)

242. Does the doctrine of the procession of the Holy Spirit from the Father admit of any change or supplement?

No. First, because the Orthodox Church, in this doctrine, repeats the very words of Jesus Christ; and his words, without doubt, are an exact and perfect expression of the truth. Secondly, because the Second Ecumenical Council, whose chief object was to establish the true doctrine respecting the Holy Spirit, has without doubt sufficiently set forth the same in the Creed; and the catholic Church has acknowledged this so decidedly, that the Third Ecumenical Council in its seventh canon forbade the composition of any new Creed.

For this cause John Damascene writes: Of the Holy Spirit, we both say that he is from the Father, and call him the Spirit of the Father; while we nowise say that he is from the Son, but only call him the Spirit of the Son. (Theol. lib. i. c. 11; v. 4.)

243. Whence does it appear that the Holy Spirit is equally with the Father and the Son, and, together with them, to be worshiped and glorified?

It appears from this, that Jesus Christ commanded to baptize in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. (Matthew 28:19)

244. Why is it said in the Creed that the Holy Spirit spake by the prophets?

This is said against certain heretics, who taught that the books of the Old Testament were not written by the Holy Spirit.

245. Does holy Scripture witness that the Holy Spirit really spake by the prophets?

The Apostle Peter writes: For prophecy came not in old time by the will of man; but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. (2 Peter 1:21)

246. Did not the Holy Spirit speak also by the Apostles?

Certainly he did. Unto the prophets, says also the Apostle Peter, it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the Gospel unto you by the Holy Spirit sent down from heaven. (1 Peter 1:12)

247. Why, then, is there no mention of the Apostles in the Creed?

Because when the Creed was composed none doubted of the inspiration of the Apostles.

248. Was not the Holy Spirit manifested to men in some very special manner?

Yes. He came down upon the Apostles, in the form of fiery tongues, on the fiftieth day after the resurrection of Jesus Christ.

249. Is the Holy Spirit communicated to men even now likewise?

He is communicated to all true Christians. Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? (1 Corinthians 3:16)

250. How may we be made partakers of the Holy Spirit?

Through fervent prayer, and through the Sacraments.

If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? (Luke 11:13)

But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Spirit, which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour. (Titus 3:4-6)

251. What are the chief gifts of the Holy Spirit?

The chief and more general are, as reckoned by the Prophet Isaiah, the following seven: the spirit of the fear of God, the spirit of knowledge, the spirit of might, the spirit of counsel, the spirit of understanding, the spirit of wisdom, the spirit of the Lord, or the gift of piety and inspiration in the highest degree. (Isaiah 11:2)

On the Ninth Article.

252. What is the Church?

The Church is a divinely instituted community of men, united by the orthodox faith, the law of God, the hierarchy, and the Sacraments.

253. What is it to believe in the Church?

It is piously to honor the true Church of Christ, and to obey her doctrine and commandments, from a conviction that grace ever abides in her, and works, teaches, and governs unto salvation, flowing from her one only everlasting Head, the Lord Jesus Christ.

254. How can the Church, which is visible, be the object of faith, when faith, as the Apostle says, is the evidence of things not seen?

First, though the Church be visible, the grace of God, which dwells in her, and in those who are sanctified in her, is not so; and this it is which properly constitutes the object of faith in the Church.

Secondly, the Church, though visible so far as she is upon earth, and contains all Orthodox Christians living upon earth, still is at the same time invisible, so far as she is also partially in heaven, and contains all those that have departed hence in true faith and holiness.

255. On what may we ground the idea that the Church is at once upon earth and in heaven?

On the following words of the Apostle Paul, addressed to Christians: Ye are come unto Mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and Church of the first-born, which are written in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus Christ the Mediator of the new covenant. (Hebrews 12:22-24)

256. How are we assured that the grace of God abides in the true Church?

First, by this: that her Head is Jesus Christ, God and man in one person, full of grace and truth, who fills his body also, that is, the Church, with like grace and truth. (John 1:14, 17)

Secondly, by this: that he has promised his disciples the Holy Spirit to abide with them forever, and that, according to this promise, the Holy Spirit appoints the pastors of the Church. (John 14:16)

The Apostle Paul says of Jesus Christ, that God the Father gave him to be head over all things to the Church, which is his body. (Ephesians 1:22-23) The same Apostle says to the pastors of the Church: Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over which the Holy Spirit hath made you Bishops, to feed the Church of our Lord and God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. (Acts 20:28)

257. How are we further assured that the grace of God abides in the Church even till now, and shall abide in it to the end of the world?

Of this we are assured by the following sayings of Jesus Christ himself and his Apostle: I will build my Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. (Matthew 16:18) I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. Amen. (Matthew 28:20) Unto him, God the Father, be glory in the Church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. (Ephesians 3:21)

258. Why is the Church one?

Because she is one spiritual Body, has one Head, Christ, and is animated by one Spirit of God. There is one body and one Spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling; one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all. (Ephesians 4:4-6)

259. Are we still more expressly assured that Jesus Christ is the one only Head of the one Church?

The Apostle Paul writes, that for the Church, as the building of God, other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. (1 Corinthians 3:10-11) Wherefore the Church, as the Body of Christ, can have no other Head than Jesus Christ.

The Church, being to abide through all generations of time, needs also an ever-abiding head; and such is Jesus Christ alone.

Wherefore, also, the Apostles take no higher title than that of ministers of the Church. (Colossians 1:24-25)

260. What duty does the unity of the Church lay on us?

That of endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. (Ephesians 4:3)

261. How does it agree with the unity of the Church, that there are many separate and independent churches, as those of Jerusalem, Antioch, Alexandria, Constantinople, Russia?

These are particular churches, or parts of the one catholic Church: the separateness of their visible organization does not hinder them from being all spiritually great members of the one body of the Universal Church, from having one Head, Christ, and one spirit of faith and grace. This unity is expressed outwardly by unity of Creed, and by communion in prayer and Sacraments.

262. Is there likewise unity between the Church on earth and the Church in heaven?

Doubtless there is, both by their common relation to one Head, our Lord Jesus Christ, and by mutual communion with one another.

263. What means of communion has the Church on earth with the Church in heaven?

The prayer of faith and love. The faithful who belong to the Church militant upon earth, in offering their prayers to God, call at the same time to their aid the saints who belong to the Church in heaven; and these, standing on the highest steps of approach to God, by their prayers and intercessions purify, strengthen, and offer before God the prayers of the faithful living upon earth, and by the will of God work graciously and beneficently upon them, either by invisible virtue, or by distinct apparitions, and in divers other ways.

264. On what is grounded the rule of the Church upon earth to invoke in prayer the saints of the Church in heaven?

On a holy tradition, the principle of which is to be seen also in holy Scripture. For instance, when the Prophet David cries out in prayer, O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel our fathers, he makes mention of saints in aid of his prayer, exactly as now the Orthodox Church calls upon Christ our true God, by the prayers of his most pure Mother and all his saints. (See 1 Chronicles 29:18)

Cyril of Jerusalem, in his explanation of the divine Liturgy, says: We make mention also of those who are before departed, first, of the Patriarchs, Prophets, Apostles, and Martyrs, that by their entreaties and intercession God may receive our prayers. (Cat. Myst. v. c. 9.)

Basil the Great, in his sermon on the day of the Forty Holy Martyrs, says: Whoever is afflicted has recourse to the Forty, and whoever is joyful runs to the same; the one that he may find relief from his sorrows, the other that he may keep his happiness. Here the pious wife is to be seen praying for her children; another asks the return of her absent husband; another the restoration of health to the sick. Yes; let your petitions be with the Martyrs.

265. Is there any testimony of holy Scripture to the mediatory prayer of the saints in heaven?

The Evangelist John, in the Revelation, saw in heaven an angel, to whom was given much incense, that he should offer it, by the prayers of all saints, upon the golden altar which was before the throne; and the smoke of the incense ascended up by the prayers of the saints out of the hands of the angel before God. (Revelation 8:3-4)

266. Is there any testimony of holy Scripture to beneficent apparitions of saints from heaven?

The Evangelist St. Matthew relates that after the death of our Lord Jesus Christ upon the cross, many bodies of the saints which slept arose, and came out of the graves, after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many. (Matthew 27:52-53) And since a miracle so great could not be without some adequate end, we must suppose that the saints which then arose appeared for this, that they might announce the descent of Jesus Christ into hell, and his triumphal resurrection; and so move men born in the Church of the Old Testament to pass over the more readily into that of the New, then opened.

267. What testimonies are there to confirm us in the belief that the saints, after their departure, work miracles through certain earthly means?

The Second (Fourth in the Greek) Book of Kings testifies that by touching the bones of the Prophet Elisha a dead man was raised to life. (2 Kings 13:21)

The Apostle Paul not only in his own immediate person wrought healings and miracles, but the same was done also in his absence by handkerchiefs and aprons taken from his body. (Acts 19:12) By this example we may understand that the saints, even after their deaths, may in like manner work beneficently through earthly means, which have received from them holy virtue.

Gregory the Divine, in his first discourse against Julian, says: Thou wast not abashed by the sacrifices offered for Christ, nor didst fear the great athletes, John, Peter, Paul, James, Stephen, Luke, Andrew, Thecla, and the rest, who before and after these suffered for the truth; who withstood both fire and sword, the torturers, and all sufferings present or threatened, as if their bodies were not their own, or they had had no bodies at all. For what? That they might not, so much as by a word, betray their religion. To whom also great honors and triumphs are with just reason awarded: by whom devils are expelled and diseases healed: who appear in visions, and prophecy: whose very bodies, though separate, when touched or reverenced, have like power with their holy souls; and drops of whose blood, those least tokens of their suffering, like power with their bodies.

John Damascene writes thus: The relics of the saints have been given us by our Lord Jesus Christ as salutary springs, from which manifold blessings flow. And as if in explanation of this, he remarks, that through the mind their bodies also were inhabited of God. (Theol. lib. iv. cap. 15, 3, 4.)

268. Why is the Church holy?

Because she is sanctified by Jesus Christ through his passion, through his doctrine, through his prayer, and through the Sacraments. Christ loved the Church, and gave himself for it; that he might sanctify it, having cleansed it with the washing of water by the Word, that he might present it to himself a glorious Church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing, but that it should be holy, and without blemish. (Ephesians 5:25-27)

In his prayer to God the Father for believers, Jesus Christ said among other things: Sanctify them through thy truth: thy Word is truth. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth. (John 17:17, 19)

269. How is the Church holy, when she has in her sinners?

Men, who sin, but purify themselves by true repentance, hinder not the Church from being holy; but impenitent sinners, either by the visible act of Church authority, or by the invisible judgment of God, are cut off from the body of the Church; and so she is, in respect of these, also kept holy.

Put away from among yourselves that wicked person. (1 Corinthians 5:13) Nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal: The Lord knoweth them that are his. And, Let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. (2 Timothy 2:19)

270. Why is the Church called catholic, or, which is the same thing, universal?

Because she is not limited to any place, nor time, nor people, but contains true believers of all places, times, and peoples.

The Apostle Paul says that the Word of the Gospel is in all the world; and bringeth forth fruit (Colossians 1:5-6), and that in the Christian Church there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian nor Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ is all, and in all. (Colossians 3:11) They which be of faith, are blessed with faithful Abraham. (Galatians 3:9)

271. What great privilege has the catholic Church?

She alone has the sublime promises that the gates of hell shall not prevail against her; that the Lord shall be with her even to the end of the world; that in her shall abide the glory of God in Christ Jesus throughout all generations forever; and consequently that she shall never apostatize from the faith, nor sin against the truth of the faith, or fall into error.

We undoubtingly confess, as sure truth, that the catholic Church can not sin, nor err, nor utter falsehood in place of truth; for the Holy Spirit, ever working through his faithful ministers the fathers and doctors of the Church, preserves her from all error. (Missive of the Eastern Patriarchs on the Orthodox Faith, Art. 12.)

272. If the catholic Church contains all true believers in the world, must we not acknowledge it to be necessary for salvation that every believer should belong to her?

Exactly so. Since Jesus Christ, in the words of St. Paul, is the Head of the Church, and he is the Saviour of the Body, it follows that, to have part in his salvation, we must necessarily be members of his body, that is, of the catholic Church. (Ephesians 5:23)

The Apostle Peter writes that baptism saves us after the figure of the ark of Noah. All who were saved from the general deluge were saved only in the ark; so all who obtain everlasting salvation obtain it only in the one catholic Church.

273. What thoughts and remembrances should we associate with the name of the Eastern Church?

In Paradise, planted in the East, was founded the first Church of our parents in innocence; and in the East, after the fall, was laid a new foundation of the Church of the redeemed, in the promise of a Saviour. In the East, in the land of Judæa, our Lord Jesus Christ, having finished the work of our salvation, laid the foundation of his own proper Christian Church: from thence she spread herself over the whole universe; and to this day the orthodox catholic ecumenical faith, confirmed by the Seven Ecumenical Councils, is preserved unchanged in its original purity in the ancient Churches of the East, and in such as agree with them, as does by God's grace the Church of Russia.

274. Why is the Church called Apostolic?

Because she has from the Apostles, without break or change, both her doctrine and the succession of the gifts of the Holy Spirit, through the laying on of consecrated, hands. In the same sense the Church is called also Orthodox, or Rightly-believing.

Ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow-citizens with the saints, and of the household of God, and are built on the foundation of the Apostles and Prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner-stone. (Ephesians 2:19-20)

275. What does the Creed teach us, when it calls the Church Apostolic?

It teaches us to hold fast the Apostolical doctrine and tradition, and eschew such doctrine and such teachers as are not warranted by the doctrine of the Apostles.

The Apostle Paul says: Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye have been taught, whether by word or our epistle. (2 Thessalonians 2:15) A man that is a heretic after the first and second admonition reject. (Titus 3:10) For there are many unruly, vain talkers and deceivers, especially they of the circumcision, whose mouths must be stopped; who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre's sake. (Titus 1:10-11) But if thy brother neglect to hear the Church, let him be to thee as a heathen man and a publican. (Matthew 18:17)

276. What ecclesiastical institution is there through which the succession of the Apostolical ministry is preserved?

The ecclesiastical Hierarchy.

277. Whence originates the Hierarchy of the Orthodox Christian Church?

From Jesus Christ himself, and from the descent of the Holy Spirit on the Apostles; from which time it is continued, in unbroken succession, through the laying on of hands, in the Sacrament of Orders. And he gave some, Apostles; and some, Prophets; and some, Evangelists; and some, Pastors and Teachers; for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the Body of Christ. (Ephesians 4:11-12)

278. What hierarchical authority is there which can extend its sphere of action over the whole catholic Church?

An Ecumenical Council.

279. Under what hierarchical authority are the chief divisions of the catholic Church?

Under the Orthodox Patriarchs and the Most Holy Synod.

280. Under what ecclesiastical authority are lesser orthodox provinces and cities?

Under Metropolitans, Archbishops, and Bishops.

281. What rank in the Hierarchy is held by the Most Holy Russian Synod?

The same rank with the Most Holy Orthodox Patriarchs. (See the Letters of the M. H. Patriarchs on the institution of the M. H. Synod.)

282. If any one desire to fulfill his duty of obedience to the Church, how may he learn what she requires of her children?

This may be learned from holy Scripture, from the canons of the holy Apostles, the holy Ecumenical and Local Councils, and the holy Fathers, and from the books of Ecclesiastical Rules and Rubrics.

On the Tenth Article.

283. Why does the Creed mention Baptism?

Because faith is sealed by Baptism, and the other Mysteries or Sacraments.

284. What is a Mystery or Sacrament?

A Mystery or Sacrament is a holy act, through which grace, or, in other words, the saving power of God, works mysteriously upon man.

285. How many are the Sacraments?

Seven: 1. Baptism 2. Chrismation 3. Communion 4. Confession 5. Orders 6. Matrimony 7. The Anointing of the Sick.

286. What virtue is there in each of these Sacraments?

1. In Baptism man is mysteriously born to a spiritual life.

2. In Chrismation he receives a grace of spiritual growth and strength.

3. In Communion he is spiritually fed.

4. In Confession he is healed of spiritual diseases, that is, of sin.

5. In Orders he receives grace spiritually to regenerate, feed, and nurture others, by doctrine and Sacraments.

6. In Matrimony he receives a grace sanctifying the married life, and the natural procreation and nurture of children.

7. In Anointing of the Sick he has medicine even for bodily diseases, in that he is healed of spiritual.

287. But why does not the Creed mention all these Sacraments, instead of mentioning Baptism only?

Because Baptism was the subject of a question, whether some people, as heretics, ought not to be rebaptized; and this required a decision, which so came to be put into the Creed.

On Baptism.

288. What is Baptism?

Baptism is a Sacrament, in which a man who believes, having his body thrice plunged in water in the name of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, dies to the carnal life of sin, and is born again of the Holy Spirit to a life spiritual and holy. Except a, man be born of water and, of the Spirit, he can not enter into the kingdom of God. (John 3:5)

289. When and how began Baptism?

First, John baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying unto the people, that they should believe on him which should come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus. (Acts 19:4) Afterwards, Jesus Christ, by his own example, sanctified Baptism, when he received it from John. Lastly, after his resurrection, he gave the Apostles this solemn commandment: Go ye and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. (Matthew 28:19)

290. What is most essential in the administration of Baptism?

Trine immersion in water, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.

291. What is required of him that seeks to be baptized?

Repentance and faith; for which cause, also, before Baptism the? recite the Creed. Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. (Acts 2:38) He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved. (Mark 16:16)

292. But why, then, are children baptized?

For the faith of their parents and sponsors, who are also bound to teach them the faith so soon as they are of sufficient age to learn.

293. How can you show from holy Scripture that we ought to baptize infants?

In the time of the Old Testament, infants were circumcised when eight days old; but Baptism in the New Testament takes the place of circumcision; consequently infants should also be baptized.

294. Whence does it appear that Baptism takes the place of circumcision?

From the following words of the Apostle to believers: Ye are circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, in putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, buried with him in Baptism. (Colossians 2:11-12)

295. Why are there sponsors at Baptism?

In order that they may stand sureties before the Church for the faith of the baptized, and after Baptism may take him in charge, to confirm him in the faith. (See Dion. Areop. on the Eccl. Hier. cap. ii.)

296. Why before baptizing do we use exorcism?

To drive away the devil, who since Adam's fall has had access to men, and power over them, as his captives and slaves.

The Apostle Paul says that all men, without grace, walk according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. (Ephesians 2:2)

297. Wherein lies the force of exorcism?

In the name of Jesus Christ, invoked with prayer and faith. Jesus Christ gave to believers this promise: In my name shall they cast out devils. (Mark 16:17)

298. What force has the sign of the cross used on this and other occasions?

What the name of Jesus Christ crucified is when pronounced with faith by motion of the lips, the very same is also the sign of the cross when made with faith by motion of the hand, or represented in any other way.

Cyril of Jerusalem writes: Let us not be ashamed to confess the Crucified; let us boldly make the sign of the Cross on the forehead, and on every thing; on the bread which we eat; on the cups from which we drink; let us make it at our going out, and coming in; when we lie down to sleep, and when we rise; when we journey, and when we rest: it is a great safeguard, given to the poor without price, to the weak without labor. For this is the grace of God; a token for the faithful, and a terror for evil spirits. (Cat. Lect. xiii. 36.)

299. Whence have we the use of the sign of the Cross?

From the very times of the Apostles. (See Dion. Areop. on the Eccl. Hier. cap. ii. and v.; also Tertull. de Coron. cap. iii.; de Resurr. cap. viii.)

300. What means the white garment which is put on after Baptism?

The purity of the soul, and of the Christian life.

301. Why do they hang upon the baptized a Cross?

As a visible expression and continual remembrance of Christ's command: If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. (Matthew 16:24)

302. What means the procession of the baptized round the font with a light?

Spiritual joy, joined with spiritual illumination.

303. How is this to be understood, that in the Creed we are made to confess one Baptism?

In this sense: that Baptism can not be repeated.

304. Why can not Baptism be repeated?

Baptism is spiritual birth: a man is born but once; therefore he is also baptized but once.

305. What is to be thought of those who sin after Baptism?

That they are more guilty in their sins than the unbaptized, since they had from God special help to do well, and have thrown it away.

For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein and overcome, the latter end is worse with them than the beginning. (2 Peter 2:20)

306. But is there not any way even for such as have sinned after Baptism to obtain pardon?

There is a way, which is penitence.

On Chrismation.

307. What is Chrismation?

Chrismation is a Sacrament, in which the baptized believer, being anointed with holy chrism (oil) on certain parts of the body in the name of the Holy Spirit, receives the gifts of the Holy Spirit for growth and strength in spiritual life.

308. Is this Sacrament mentioned in holy Scripture?

The inward grace of this Sacrament is spoken of by the Apostle John, as follows: But ye have an annointing from the Holy One, and ye know all things. And the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you; but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie; and even as it hath taught you, abide therein. (1 John 2:20, 27)

In like manner the Apostle Paul also says: Now he which stablisheth us with you in Christ, and hath anointed us, is God; who hath also sealed us, and given the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts. (2 Corinthians 1:21-22)

Hence are taken the words pronounced at Chrismation: The seal of the gift of the Holy Spirit.

309. Is the outward form of Anointing with Chrism mentioned in holy Scripture?

It may well be supposed that the words of St. John refer to a visible as well as to an inward anointing; but it is more certain that the Apostles, for imparting to the baptized the gifts of the Holy Spirit, used imposition of hands. (Acts 8:15, 17) The successors of the Apostles, however, in place of this, introduced anointing with chrism, drawing, it may be, their precedent from the anointing used in the Old Testament. (Exodus 30:25; 1 Kings 1:39; Dion. Areop. de Eccl. Hier. cap. iv.)

310. What is to be remarked of the holy Chrism?

This: that its consecration is reserved to the heads of the Hierarchy, as successors of the Apostles, who used the laying on of their own hands to communicate the gifts of the Holy Spirit.

311. What is specially signified by anointing the forehead?

The sanctification of the mind, or thoughts.

312. What by anointing the chest?

The sanctification of the heart, or desires.

313. What by anointing the eyes, ears, and lips?

The sanctification of the senses.

314. What by anointing the hands and feet?

The sanctification of the works and whole walk of the Christian.

On Communion.

315. What is Communion?

Communion is a Sacrament, in which the believer, under the forms of bread and wine, partakes of the very Body and Blood of Christ, to everlasting life.

316. How was this Sacrament instituted?

Jesus Christ, immediately before his passion, consecrated it for the first time, exhibiting in it by anticipation a lively image of his sufferings for our salvation; and after having administered it to the Apostles, he gave them at the same time a commandment ever after to perpetuate this Sacrament.

317. What is to be noticed of the Sacrament of Communion in regard to divine service in the Church?

This: that it forms the chief and most essential part of divine service.

318. What is the name of that service in which the Sacrament of Communion is consecrated?

The Liturgy.

319. What means the word Liturgy?

Common service, but the name Liturgy is specially appropriated to that divine service in which the Sacrament of Communion is consecrated.

320. What is to be noted of the place where the Liturgy is celebrated?

It must always be consecrated in a temple, the table in which, or at least, if there be no such table, the antimense on which the Sacrament is consecrated, must have been consecrated by a Bishop.

321. Why is the temple called a church?

Because the faithful, who compose the Church, meet in it for prayer and Sacraments.

322. Why is the table, on which the Sacrament of Communion is consecrated, called the throne?

Because on it Jesus Christ, as King, is mystically present.

323. What general order of parts may be remarked in the Liturgy?

This: that first the elements are prepared for the Sacrament; secondly, the faithful are prepared for the Sacrament; lastly, the Sacrament itself is consecrated.

324. What is the name for that part of the Liturgy in which the elements are prepared for the Sacrament?

Proskomidè, προσκομιδή.

325. What is the meaning of the word Proskomidè?

Offertory.

326. Why is this name given to the first part of the Liturgy?

From the custom of the primitive Christians to offer in the Church bread and wine for the celebration of the Sacrament. On the same account this bread is called prosphora, which means oblation.

327. In what consists the Offertory, as a part of the Liturgy?

In this: that with mention made of the prophecies and types, and partly also of the events themselves, relating to the birth and suffering of Jesus Christ, a portion is taken from the prosphora for use in the Sacrament, and likewise a portion of wine mixed with water is poured off into the holy chalice, while the celebrator makes commemoration of the whole Church, honors the glorified saints, prays for the living and the departed, especially for the ruling powers, and for those who, of their own faith and zeal, have brought prosphoræ, or oblations.

328. Of what kind should be the bread for the Sacrament?

Such as the name itself of bread, the holiness of the Mystery, and the example of Jesus Christ and the Apostles all require; that is, leavened, pure, wheaten bread.

329. What is signified by this, that the bread or loaf which is strictly to be used for Communion is only one?

It signifies, as the Apostle explains, that we, being many, are one bread, and one body; for we are all partakers of that one bread. (1 Corinthians 10:17)

330. Why is the bread, when prepared for Communion, called the Lamb?

Because it is the figure of Jesus Christ suffering, as was in the Old Testament the Paschal Lamb.

331. What was the Paschal Lamb?

The lamb which the Israelites, by God's command, killed and ate in memory of their deliverance from destruction in Egypt.

332. Why is the wine for the Sacrament of Communion mixed with water?

Because the whole of this celebration is ordered so as to figure forth the sufferings of Christ; and when he suffered there flowed from his pierced side blood and water.

333. What name has that part of the Liturgy in which the faithful are prepared for the Sacrament?

The ancients called it the Liturgy of the Catechumens; because, besides baptized communicants, the catechumens, also, who are preparing for Baptism, and the penitents, who are not admitted to communion, may be present at it.

334. With what does this part of the Liturgy begin?

With the Blessing, or glorification of the Kingdom of the Most Holy Trinity.

335. In what consists this part of the Liturgy?

In prayers, singing, and reading from the books of the Apostles, and from the Gospel.

336. With what does it end?

With the order given to the catechumens to go out and leave the church.

337. What is the name for that part of the Liturgy in which the Sacrament itself is celebrated and consecrated?

The Liturgy of the Faithful; because the faithful only, that is, the baptized, have the right to be present at this service.

338. What is the most essential act in this part of the Liturgy?

The utterance of the words which Jesus Christ spake in instituting the Sacrament: Take, eat; this is my body. Drink ye all of it; for this is my Blood of the New Testament. (Matthew 26:26-28) And after this the invocation of the Holy Spirit, and the blessing the gifts, that is, the bread and wine which have been offered.

339. Why is this so essential?

Because at the moment of this act the bread and wine are changed, or transubstantiated, into the very Body of Christ, and into the very Blood of Christ.

340. How are we to understand the word transubstantiation?

In the exposition of the faith by the Eastern Patriarchs,[93] it is said that the word transubstantiation is not to be taken to define the manner in which the bread and wine are changed into the Body and Blood of the Lord; for this none can understand but God; but only thus much is signified, that the bread truly, really, and substantially becomes the very true Body of the Lord, and the wine the very Blood of the Lord.

In like manner John Damascene, treating of the Holy and Immaculate Mysteries of the Lord, writes thus: It is truly that Body, united with Godhead, which had its origin from the Holy Virgin; not as though that Body which ascended came down from heaven, but because the bread and wine themselves are changed into the Body and Blood of God. But if thou seekest after the manner how this is, let it suffice thee to be told that it is by the Holy Spirit; in like manner as, by the same Holy Spirit, the Lord formed flesh to himself, and in himself, from the Mother of God; nor know I aught more than this, that the Word of God is true, powerful, and almighty, but its manner of operation unsearchable. (J. Damasc. Theol. lib. iv. cap. 13, § 7.)

341. What is required individually of every one who desires to approach the Sacrament of Communion?

To examine his conscience before God, and to cleanse it from sin by penitence; for doing which he has helps in fasting and prayer.

Let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup; for he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's Body. (1 Corinthians 11:28-29)

342. What benefit does he receive who communicates in the Body and Blood of Christ?

He is in the closest manner united to Jesus Christ himself, and, in him, is made partaker of everlasting life.

He that eateth my Flesh, and drinketh my Blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him. (John 6:56) Whoso eateth my Flesh, and drinketh my Blood, hath eternal life. (John 6:54)

343. Ought we to communicate often in the holy Mysteries?

The primitive Christians communicated every Lord's Day; but now few have such purity of life as to be always prepared to approach so great a Mystery. Our Mother the Church calls on all, who would live religiously, to confess before their spiritual Father, and communicate in the Body and Blood of Christ, four times yearly, or even every month, but requires all, without exception, to receive it at the least once in the year. (See Orthod. Confess. Pt. I. Q. 90.)

344. What part can they have in the divine Liturgy who only hear it without approaching holy Communion?

They may and should take part in the Liturgy by prayer and faith, and especially by a continual remembrance of our Lord Jesus Christ, who expressly has commanded us to do this in remembrance of him. (Luke 22:19)

345. What should we remember at that time in the Liturgy when they make the Procession with the Gospel?

Jesus Christ appearing to preach the Gospel. So also while the Gospel is reading, we should have the same attention and reverence as if we saw and heard Jesus Christ himself.

346. What should we remember at that time in the Liturgy when they make the Procession with the gifts from the Table of Preparation to the Altar?

Jesus Christ going to suffer voluntarily, as a victim to the slaughter, while more than twelve legions of angels were ready around to guard him as their King.

The King of kings, and Lord of lords, cometh to be slaughtered. (Hymn for the Liturgy on the Great Sabbath.)

347. What should we remember at the moment of the consecration of the Sacrament, and while the clergy are communicating within the Altar?

The mystical supper of Jesus Christ himself with his Apostles; his suffering, death, and burial.

348. What is set forth after this, by the drawing back of the veil, the opening of the royal doors, and the appearance of the holy gifts?

The appearance of Jesus Christ himself after his resurrection.

349. What is figured by the last showing of the holy gifts to the people, after which they are hid from view?

The ascension of Jesus Christ into heaven.

350. Will the use of the Sacrament of holy Communion continue ever in the true Church of Christ?

Assuredly it will ever continue, even to Christ's coming again, agreeably to the words of the Apostle Paul: For as oft as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do show forth the Lord's death till he come. (1 Corinthians 11:26)

On Confession.

351. What is Confession?

Confession is a Sacrament, in which he who confesses his sins is, on the outward declaration of pardon (absolution) by the priest, inwardly loosed from his sins by Jesus Christ himself.

352. What is the origin of this Sacrament?

They who came to John the Baptist, who preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins, confessed their sins. (Mark 1:4-5) The Apostles were promised by Jesus Christ power to forgive sins, when he said, Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven. (Matthew 18:18) And after his resurrection he actually gave them this power, saying, Receive ye the Holy Spirit: whosesoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them and whosesoever sins ye retain, they are retained. (John 20:22-23)

353. What is required of the penitent?

Contrition for his sins, with a full purpose of amendment of life, faith in Jesus Christ, and hope in his mercy.

For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation, not to be repented of. (2 Corinthians 7:10) But if the wicked turn from his wickedness, and do that which is lawful and right, he shall live thereby. (Ezekiel 33:19) To him, that is to Jesus Christ, give all the Prophets witness, that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins. (Acts 10:43)

354. Are there not besides certain preparations and aids to Confession?

Such are fasting and prayer.

355. Is there not besides these a certain special mean used by holy Church for cleansing and giving peace to the conscience of the penitent?

Such a mean is the epitimia, or penance.

356. What is the epitimia?

The word means punishment. (cf. 2 Corinthians 2:6) Under this name are prescribed to the penitent, according as may be requisite, divers particular exercises of piety, and divers abstinences or privations, serving to efface the unrighteousness of sin, and to subdue sinful habit; as, for instance, fasting beyond what is prescribed for all, or for grievous sins suspension from the holy Communion for a given time.

On Orders.

357. What are Orders

Orders are a Sacrament, in which the Holy Spirit, by the laying on of the Bishop's hands, ordains them that be rightly chosen to minister sacraments, and to feed the flock of Christ.

Let a man so account of us, as of the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God. (1 Corinthians 4:1)

Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over the which the Holy Spirit hath made you overseers, to feed the Church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. (Acts 20:28)

358. What is it to feed the Church?

To instruct the people in faith, piety, and good works.

359. How many necessary degrees are there of Orders?

Three: those of Bishop, Priest, and Deacon.

360. What difference is there between them?

The Deacon serves at the Sacraments; the Priest hallows Sacraments in dependence on the Bishop; the Bishop not only hallows the Sacraments himself, but has power also to impart to others, by the laying on of his hands, the gift and grace to hallow them.

Of the Episcopal power the Apostle Paul thus writes to Titus: For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city. (Titus 1:5) And to Timothy: Lay hands suddenly on no man. (1 Timothy 5:22)

On Matrimony.

361. What is Matrimony?

Matrimony is a Sacrament, in which, on the free promise of the man and woman before the priest and the Church to be true to each other, their conjugal union is blessed to be an image of Christ's union with the Church, and grace is asked for them to live together in godly love and honesty, to the procreation and Christian bringing up of children.

362. Whence does it appear that Matrimony is a Sacrament?

From the following words of the Apostle Paul: A man shall leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh. This Sacrament is great: but I speak concerning Christ and the Church. (Ephesians 5:31-32)

363. Is it the duty of all to marry?

No. Virginity is better than wedlock, if any have the gift to keep it undefiled.

Of this Jesus Christ has said expressly: All men can not receive this saying, save they to whom it is given. He that is able to receive it, let him receive it. (Matthew 19:11-12)

And the Apostle says: I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, It is good for them if they abide even as I; but if they can not contain, let them marry. . . . He that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the Lord; but he that is I married careth for the things that are of the world, how he may please his wife. ... He that giveth his virgin in marriage doeth well; but he that giveth her not in marriage doeth better. (1 Corinthians 7:8-9, 32-33, 38)

On the Anointing of the Sick.

364. What is the Anointing of the Sick?

The Anointing of the Sick with Oil is a Sacrament, in which, while the body is anointed with oil, God's grace is invoked on the sick, to heal him of spiritual and bodily infirmities.

365. Whence is the origin of this Sacrament?

From the Apostles, who, having received power from Jesus Christ, anointed with oil many that were sick, and healed them. (Mark 6:13)

The Apostles left this Sacrament to the priests of the Church, as is evident from the following words of the Apostle James: Is any sick among you? let him call for the elders of the Church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord; and the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. (James 5:14, 16)

On the Eleventh Article.

366. What is the resurrection of the dead, which, in the words of the Creed, we look for or expect?

An act of the almighty power of God, by which all bodies of dead men, being reunited to their souls, shall return to life, and shall thenceforth be spiritual and immortal.

It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. (1 Corinthians 15:44) For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. (1 Corinthians 15:53)

367. How shall the body rise again after it has rotted and perished in the ground?

Since God formed the body from the ground originally, he can equally restore it after it has perished in the ground. The Apostle Paul illustrates this by the analogy of a grain of seed, which rots in the earth, but from which there springs up afterwards a plant, or tree. That which thou sowest is not quickened except it die. (1 Corinthians 15:36)

368. Shall all, strictly speaking, rise again?

All, without exception, that have died; but they who at the time of the general resurrection shall be still alive shall have their present gross bodies changed in a moment, so as to become spiritual and immortal.

We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump; for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. (1 Corinthians 15:51-52)

369. When shall the resurrection of the dead be?

At the end of this visible world.

370. Shall the world then too come to an end?

Yes; this corruptible world shall come to an end, and shall be transformed into another, incorruptible.

Because the creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. (Romans 8:21) Nevertheless we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. (2 Peter 3:13)

371. How shall the world be transformed?

By fire. The heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same, that is, by God's word, are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. (2 Peter 3:7)

372. In what state are the souls of the dead till the general resurrection?

The souls of the righteous are in light and rest, with a foretaste of eternal happiness; but the souls of the wicked are in a state the reverse of this.

373. Why may we not ascribe to the souls of the righteous perfect happiness immediately after death?

Because it is ordained that the perfect retribution according to works shall be received by the perfect man after the resurrection of the body and God's last judgment.

The Apostle Paul says: Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day; and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing. (2 Timothy 4:8) And again: We must all appear before the judgment-seat of Christ; that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. (2 Corinthians 5:10)

374. Why do we ascribe to the souls of the righteous a foretaste of bliss before the last judgment?

On the testimony of Jesus Christ himself, who says in the parable that the righteous Lazarus was immediately after death carried into Abraham's bosom. (Luke 16:22)

375. Is this foretaste of bliss joined with a sight of Christ's own countenance?

It is so more especially with the saints, as we are given to understand by the Apostle Paul, who had a desire to depart, and to be with Christ. (Philippians 1:23)

376. What is to be remarked of such souls as have departed with faith, but without having had time to bring forth fruits worthy of repentance?

This: that they may be aided towards the attainment of a blessed resurrection by prayers offered in their behalf, especially such as are offered in union with the oblation of the bloodless sacrifice of the Body and Blood of Christ, and by works of mercy done in faith for their memory.

377. On what is this doctrine grounded?

On the constant tradition of the catholic Church; the sources of which may be seen even in the Church of the Old Testament. Judas Maccabæus offered sacrifice for his men that had fallen. (2 Maccabees 12:43) Prayer for the departed has ever formed a fixed part of the divine Liturgy, from the first Liturgy of the Apostle James. St. Cyril of Jerusalem says: Very great will be the benefit to those souls for which prayer is offered at the moment when the holy and tremendous Sacrifice is lying in view. (Lect. Myst. v. 9.)

St. Basil the Great, in his prayers for Pentecost, says that the Lord vouchsafes to receive from us propitiatory prayers and sacrifices for those that are kept in Hades, and allows us the hope of obtaining for them peace, relief, and freedom.

On the Twelfth Article.

378. What is the life of the world to come?

The life that shall be after the resurrection of the dead and the general judgment of Christ.

379. What kind of life shall this be?

For those who believe, who love God, and do what is good, it shall be so happy that we can not now even conceive such happiness. It doth not yet appear what we shall be. (1 John 3:2) I knew a man in Christ, says the Apostle Paul, who was caught up into Paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter. (2 Corinthians 12:2, 4)

380. Whence shall proceed this so great happiness?

From the contemplation of God in light and glory, and from union with him. For now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face: now I know in part, but then shall I know, even as also I am known. (1 Corinthians 13:12)

Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun, in the kingdom of their Father. (Matthew 13:43) God shall be all in all. (1 Corinthians 15:28)

381. Shall the body also share in the happiness of the soul?

Yes; it too will be glorified with the light of God, as Christ's body was at his transfiguration on Mount Tabor.

It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. (1 Corinthians 15:43) As we have borne the image of the earthy, that is, of Adam, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly. (1 Corinthians 15:49)

382. Will all be equally happy?

No. There will be different degrees of happiness, in proportion as every one shall have here endured the fight of faith, love, and good works. There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for one star differeth from another star in glory. So also is the resurrection of the dead. (1 Corinthians 15:41-42)

383. But what will be the lot of unbelievers and transgressors?

They will be given over to everlasting death--that is, to everlasting fire, to everlasting torment, with the devils.

Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. (Revelation 20:15) And, That is the second death. (Revelation 20:14) Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. (Matthew 25:41) And these shall go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into life eternal. (Matthew 25:46) It is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire: where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. (Mark 9:47-48)

384. Why will such severity be used with sinners?

Not because God willed them to perish; but they of their own will perish, because they receive not the love of the truth, that they might be saved. (2 Thessalonians 2:10)

385. Of what benefit will it be to us to meditate on death, on the resurrection, on the last judgment, on everlasting happiness, and on everlasting torment?

These meditations will assist us to abstain from sin, and to wean our affections from earthly things; they will console ns for the absence or loss of worldly goods, incite us to keep our souls and bodies pure, to live to God and to eternity, and so to attain everlasting salvation.[94]

c201

Part Two: On Hope.

Definition of Christian Hope, its Ground, and the Means thereto.

386. What is Christian hope?

The resting of the heart on God, with the full trust that he ever cares for our salvation, and will give us the happiness he has promised.

387. What is the ground of Christian hope?

The Lord Jesus Christ is our hope, or the ground of our hope. (1 Timothy 1:1) Hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you by the revelation of Jesus Christ. (1 Peter 1:13)

388. What are the means for attaining to a saving hope?

The means to this are, first, prayer; secondly, the true doctrine of blessedness, and its practical application.

On Prayer.

389. Is there any testimony of God's Word to this, that prayer is a mean for attaining to a saving hope?

Jesus Christ himself joins the hope of receiving our desire with prayer: Whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. (John 14:13)

390. What is Prayer?

The lifting up of man's mind and heart to God, manifested by devout words.

391. What should the Christian do when he lifts up his mind and heart to God?

First, he should glorify him for his divine perfections; secondly, give thanks to him for his mercies; thirdly, ask him for what he needs. So there are three chief forms of prayer: Praise, Thanksgiving, and Petition.

392. Can a man pray without words?

He can: in mind and heart. An example of this may be seen in Moses before the passage through the Red Sea. Exod. xiv. 15.

393. Has not such prayer a name of its own?

It is called spiritual, or prayer of the heart and mind, in one word, inward prayer; while, on the other hand, prayer expressed in words, and accompanied by other marks of devotion, is called oral or outward prayer.

394. Can there be outward prayer without inward?

There can: if any man utter words of prayer without attention or earnestness.

395. Does outward prayer alone suffice to obtain grace?

So far is it from sufficing to obtain grace, that contrariwise it provokes God to anger.

God has himself declared his displeasure at such prayer: This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me: but in vain do they worship me. (Matthew 15:8-9)

396. Does not inward prayer alone suffice without outward?

This question is as if one should ask whether soul alone might not suffice for man without body. It is idle to ask this, seeing that God has been pleased to make man consist of soul and body; likewise idle it is to ask whether inward prayer alone may not suffice without outward. Since we have both soul and body, we ought to glorify God in our bodies, and in our souls, which are God's: this being besides natural, that out of the abundance of the heart the mouth should speak. Our Lord Jesus Christ was spiritual in the highest degree, but even he expressed his spiritual prayer both by words and by devout gestures of body, sometimes, for instance, lifting up his eyes to heaven, sometimes kneeling, or falling on his face to the ground. (1 Corinthians 6:20; Matthew 12:34; John 17:1; Luke 22:41; Matthew 26:39)

On the Lord's Prayer.

397. Is there a prayer which may be termed the common Christian prayer, and pattern of all prayers?

Such is the Lord's Prayer.

398. What is the Lord's Prayer?

A prayer which our Lord Jesus Christ taught the Apostles, and which they delivered to all believers.

399. Repeat it.

Our Father, who art in heaven;

1. Hallowed be thy Name;

2. Thy kingdom come;

3. Thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth;

4. Give us this day our daily bread;

5. And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors,

6. And lead us not into temptation;

7. But deliver us from evil.

For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, forever and ever. Amen. (Matthew 6:9-13)

400. In order the better to understand the Lord's Prayer, how may we divide it?

Into the invocation, seven petitions, and the doxology.

On the Invocation.

401. How dare we call God Father?

By faith in Jesus Christ, and by the grace of regeneration.

As many as received him, to them, gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name: which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. (John 1:12-13)

402. Must we say Our Father even when we pray alone?

Certainly we must.

403. Why so?

Because Christian charity requires us to call upon God, and ask good things of him, for all our brethren, no less than for ourselves.

404. Why in the invocation do we say, Who art in heaven?

That, entering upon prayer, we may leave every thing earthly and corruptible, and raise our minds and hearts to what is heavenly, everlasting, and divine.

On the First Petition.

405. Is not God's name holy?

Doubtless it is holy in itself. Holy is his name. (Luke 1:49)

406. How, then, can it yet be hallowed?

It may be hallowed in men; that is, his eternal holiness may be manifested in them.

407. How?

First, when we, having in our thoughts and heart the name of God, so live as his holiness requires, and thus glorify God; secondly, when others also, seeing our good lives, glorify God.

Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven. (Matthew 5:16)

c22A

On the Second Petition.

408. What is the kingdom of God spoken of in the Second Petition of the Lord's Prayer?

The kingdom of grace, which, as St. Paul says, is righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. Rom. xiv. 17.

409. Is not this kingdom come already?

To some it has not yet come in its full sense; while to others it has not yet come at all inasmuch as sin still reigns in their mortal bodies, that they should obey it in the lusts thereof. (Romans 6:12)

410. How does it come?

Secretly, and inwardly. The kingdom of God cometh not with observation; for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you. (Luke 17:20-21)

411. May not the Christian ask for something further under the name of God's kingdom?

He may ask for the kingdom of glory--that is, for the perfect bliss of the faithful.

Having a desire to depart, and be with Christ. (Philippians 1:23)

c22W

On the Third Petition.

412. What means the petition, Thy will be done?

Hereby we ask of God that all we do, and all that befalls us, may be ordered not as we will, but as pleases him.

413. Why need we ask this?

Because we often err in our wishes; but God unerringly, and incomparably more than we ourselves, wishes for us all that is good, and is ever ready to bestow it, unless he be prevented by our willfulness and obstinacy.

Unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, unto him be glory in the Church. (Ephesians 3:20-21)

414. Why do we ask that God's will be done in earth as in heaven?

Because in heaven the holy angels and saints in bliss, all without exception, always, and in all things, do God's will.

On the Fourth Petition.

415. What is daily bread?

The bread which we need in order to subsist or live.

416. With what thoughts should we ask of God this bread?

Agreeably with the instruction of our Lord Jesus Christ, we should ask no more than bread for subsistence; that is, necessary food, and such clothing and shelter as is likewise necessary for life; but whatever is beyond this, and serves not so much for necessity as for gratification, we should leave to the will of God; and if it be given, return thanks to him; if it be not given, we should be content without it.

417. Why are we directed to ask for bread for subsistence only for this day ?

That we may not be too anxious about the future, but trust for that to God. Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself: sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. (Matthew 6:34) For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. (Matthew 6:32)

418. May we not ask for something farther under the name of daily bread?

Since man is made of both a bodily and a spiritual substance, and the substance of the soul far excels that of the body, we may and should seek for the soul also that bread of subsistence without which the inward man must perish of hunger. (See Cyril. Hier. Lect, Myst. iv. 15; Orthod. Confess. Pt. II. Q. 19.)

419. What is the bread of subsistence for the soul?

The Word of God, and the Body and Blood of Christ.

Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. (Matthew 4:4) My flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. (John 6:55)

On the Fifth Petition.

420. What is meant in the Lord's Prayer by our debts?

Our sins.

421. Why are our sins called debts?

Because we, having received all from God, ought to render all back to him--that is, subject all to his will and law; which if we do not, we are left debtors to his justice.

422. But who are our debtors?

People who have not rendered us that which they owed us by the law of God; as, for instance, have not shown us love, but malice.

423. If God is just, how can we be forgiven our debts?

Through the mediation of Jesus Christ.

For there is one God, and one Mediator between God and man, the man Jesus Christ, who gave himself a ransom for all. (1 Timothy 2:5-6)

424. What will be the consequence, if we ask God to forgive us our sins without ourselves forgiving others?

In that case neither shall we be forgiven.

For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you; but if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive you your trespasses. (Matthew 6:14-15)

425. Why will not God forgive us if we do not forgive others?

Because we hereby show ourselves evil, and so alienate from us God's goodness and mercy.

426. What disposition, then, must we have to use aright those words of the Lord's Prayer, As we forgive our debtors?

These words absolutely require that when we pray we should bear no malice nor hatred, but be in peace and charity with all men.

Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and, there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way: first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. (Matthew 5:23-24)

427. But what am I to do if I can not readily find him who hath aught against me, or if he show himself unwilling to be reconciled?

In such a case it is enough to be reconciled with him in heart, before the eyes of the all-seeing God.

If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. (Romans 12:18)

On the Sixth Petition.

428. What is meant in the Lord's Prayer by temptation ?

Any conjuncture of circumstances in which there is imminent danger of losing the faith, or falling into great sin.

429. Whence come such temptations?

From our flesh, from the world, or other people, and from the devil.

430. What do we ask in these words of the prayer, Lead us not into temptation?

First, that God suffer us not to be led into temptation; secondly, that if it be needful for us to be tried and purified through temptation, he give us not up wholly to temptation, nor suffer us to fall.

On the Seventh Petition.

431. What do we ask in these words of the prayer, Deliver us from evil?

We ask for deliverance from all evil that can reach us in the world, which since the fall lieth in wickedness (1 John 5:19): but especially from the evil of sin, and from the evil suggestions and snares of the spirit of evil, which is the devil.

On the Doxology.

432. Why after the Lord's Prayer do we subjoin the Doxology?

First, that when we ask mercies for ourselves from our heavenly Father, we may at the same time render him that honor which is his due; secondly, that by the thought of his everlasting kingdom, power, and glory, we may be more and more established in the hope that he will give us what we ask, because this is in his power, and makes to his glory.

433. What means the word Amen?

It means verily, or so be it.

434. Why is this word added to the Doxology?

To signify that we offer the prayer in faith, and without doubting, as we are taught to do by the Apostle James. (James 1:6)

On the Doctrine of Blessedness.

435. What must we join with prayer in order to be grounded in the hope of salvation and blessedness?

Our own exertions for the attainment of blessedness.

Of this point the Lord himself says: Why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? (Luke 6:46) Not every one that saith unto me Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. (Matthew 7:21)

436. What doctrine may we take as our guide in these exertions?

The doctrine of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is briefly set forth in his Beatitudes, or sentences on blessedness.

437. How many such sentences are there? The nine following:

1. Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

2. Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.

3. Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.

4. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filed.

5. Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.

6. Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.

7. Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.

8. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

9. Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven. (Matthew 5:3-12)

438. What is to be observed of all these sentences in order to their right understanding?

This: that the Lord proposed in these sentences a doctrine for the attainment of blessedness, as is expressly said in the Gospel: He opened his mouth, and taught; but, being meek and lowly of heart, he proposed his doctrine not in the form of commandment, but of blessing, to those who should of their own free will receive and fulfill it. Consequently in each sentence or Beatitude we must consider, first, the doctrine or precept; secondly, the blessing or promise of reward.

On the First Beatitude.

439. What is the Lord's first precept of blessedness?

They who would be blessed must be poor in spirit.

440. What is it to be poor in spirit?

It is to have a spiritual conviction that we have nothing of our own, nothing but what God bestows upon us, and that we can do nothing good without God's help and grace, thus counting ourselves as nothing, and in all throwing ourselves upon the mercy of God; in brief, as St. Chrysostom explains it, spiritual poverty is humility.(Hom. in Matt. xv.)

441. Can the rich, too, be poor in spirit?

Doubtless they can: if they consider that visible riches are corruptible and soon pass away, and can never compensate for the want of spiritual goods. What is a man profited, if he gain the whole world, and lose his own soul for what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? (Matthew 16:26)

442. May not bodily poverty serve to the perfection of spiritual?

It may, if the Christian choose it voluntarily, for God's sake. Of this, Jesus Christ himself said to the rich man: If thou wilt be perfect, go, sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come and follow me. (Matthew 19:21)

443. What does our Lord promise to the poor in spirit?

The kingdom of heaven.

444. How is the kingdom of heaven theirs?

In the present life inwardly, and inchoately, by faith and hope; but in the life to come perfectly, by their being made partakers of everlasting blessedness.

On the Second Beatitude.

445. What is the Lord's second precept for blessedness?

They who would be blessed must mourn.

446. What is meant in this precept by the word mourn?

Sorrow and contrition of heart, with unfeigned tears, for that we so imperfectly and unworthily serve the Lord, or even rather deserve big anger by our sins, for godly sorrow worketh repentance unto salvation not to be repented of; but the sorrow of this world worketh death. (2 Corinthians 7:10)

447. What special promise does the Lord make to mourners?

That they shall be comforted.

448. What comfort is here to be understood?

That of grace, consisting in the pardon of sin, and in peace of conscience.

449. Why is this promise added to the precept for mourning?

In order that sorrow for sin may not reach to despair.

On the Third Beatitude.

450. What is the Lord's Third precept for blessedness?

They who would be blessed must be meek.

451. What is meekness?

A quiet disposition of spirit, joined with care neither to offend any man, nor be offended at any thing one's self.

452. What are the special effects of Christian meekness?

These: that we never murmur against God, nor even against men, when any thing falls out against our wishes, nor give way to anger, nor set ourselves up.

453. What is promised by the Lord to the meek?

That they shall inherit the earth.

454. How are we to understand this promise?

As regards Christ's followers generally it is a prediction which has been literally fulfilled; for the ever-meek Christians, instead of being destroyed by the fury of the heathen, have inherited the universe which the heathen formerly possessed. But the further sense of this promise, as regards Christians both generally and individually, is this, that they shall receive an inheritance, as the Psalmist says, in the land of the living; that is, where men live and never die; in other words, that they shall receive everlasting blessedness. (See Psalm 27:13)

On the Fourth Beatitude.

455. What is the Lord's Fourth Precept for blessedness?

They who would be blessed must hunger and thirst after righteousness.

456. What is meant here by the word righteousness ?

Though this word may well stand for every virtue which the Christian ought to desire even as his meat and drink, yet should we here specially understand that righteousness of which, in the book of Daniel, it is said, An everlasting righteousness shall be brought in; that is, the justification of guilty man through grace and faith in Jesus Christ. (Daniel 9:24)

The Apostle Paul speaks thus: The righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all, and upon all them that believe; for there is no difference: for all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God/ being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past. (Romans 3:22-25)

457. Who are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness?

They who, while they love to do good, yet count not themselves righteous, nor rest on their own good works, but acknowledge themselves sinners, and guilty before God; and who, by the wish and prayer of faith, hunger and thirst after the justification of grace through Jesus Christ, as after spiritual meat and drink.

458. What does the Lord promise to them who hunger and thirst after righteousness?

That they shall be filled.

459. What is meant here by being filled?

As the filling or satisfying of the body produces, first, the cessation of the sense of hunger and thirst; secondly, the strengthening the body by food, so the filling of the soul means, first, the inward peace of the pardoned sinner; secondly, the acquisition of strength to do good, given by justifying grace. The perfect filling, however, of the soul created for the enjoyment of endless good is to follow in the life eternal, according to the words of the Psalmist: When I awake up after thy likeness, I shall be satisfied with it. (Psalm 27:15)

On the Fifth Beatitude.

460. What is the Lord's Fifth Precept for blessedness?

They who would be blessed must be merciful.

461. How are we to fulfill this Precept?

By works of mercy, corporal and spiritual; for, as St. Chrysostom says, the forms of mercy are manifold, and this commandment is broad. (Homily on Matthew xv.)

462. Which are the corporal works of mercy?

1. To feed the hungry.

2. To give drink to the thirsty.

3. To clothe the naked, or such as have not necessary and decent clothing.

4. To visit them that are in prison.

5. To visit the sick, minister to them, and forward their recovery, or aid them to a Christian preparation for death.

6. To show hospitality to strangers.

7. To bury them that have died in poverty.

463. Which are the spiritual works of mercy?

1. By exhortation to convert the sinner from the error of his way. (James 5:20)

2. To instruct the ignorant in truth and virtue.

3. To give our neighbor good and seasonable advice in difficulty, or in any danger of which he is unaware.

4. To pray for others to God.

5. To comfort the afflicted.

6. Not to return the evil which others may have done us.

7. To forgive injuries from our heart.

464. Is it not contrary to the precept of mercy for civil justice to punish criminals?

Not in the least; if this be done as of duty, and with a good intent, that is, in order to correct them, or to preserve the innocent from their crimes.

465. What does the Lord promise to the merciful?

That they shall obtain mercy.

466. What mercy is here to be understood?

That of being delivered from everlasting condemnation for sin at God's Judgment.

On the Sixth Beatitude.

467. What is the Lord's Sixth Precept for blessedness?

They who would be blessed must be pure in heart.

468. Is not purity of heart the same thing as sincerity?

Sincerity which feigns not any good dispositions foreign to the heart, but shows the really good dispositions of the heart by good deeds, is only the lowest degree of purity of heart. This last a man attains by constant and strict watchfulness over himself, driving away from his heart every unlawful wish and thought, and every affection for earthly things, and ever keeping there the remembrance of God and our Lord Jesus Christ with faith and charity.

469. What does the Lord promise to the pure in heart?

That they shall see God.

470. How are we to understand this promise?

The Word of God compares the heart of man to the eye, and ascribes to perfect Christians enlightened, eyes of the heart. (Ephesians 1:18) As the eye that is clear can see the light, so the heart that is pure can behold God. But since the sight of God's countenance is the very source of everlasting blessedness, the promise of seeing God is the promise of the highest degree of everlasting blessedness.

On the Seventh Beatitude.

471. What is the Lord's Seventh Precept for blessedness?

They who would be blessed must be peace-makers.

472. How are we to fulfill this commandment?

We must live friendly with all men, and give no occasion for disagreement: if any arise, we must try all possible ways to put a stop to it, even by yielding our own right, unless this be against duty, or hurtful to any other: if others are at enmity, we must do all we can to reconcile them; and if we fail, we must pray to God for their reconciliation.

473. What does the Lord promise to peace-makers?

That they shall be called the Sons of God.

474. What is signified by this promise?

The sublimity both of their office and of their reward. Since in what they do they imitate the only-begotten Son of God, who came upon earth to reconcile fallen man with God's justice, they are for this promised the gracious name of Sons of God, and without doubt a degree of blessedness answering thereto.

On the Eighth Beatitude.

475. What is the Lord's Eighth Precept for blessedness?

They who would be blessed must be ready to endure persecution for righteousness' sake, without betraying it.

476. What qualities are required by this precept?

Love of righteousness, constancy and firmness in virtue, fortitude and patience, when one is subjected to calamity or danger for refusing to betray truth and virtue.

477. What does the Lord promise to those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake?

The kingdom of heaven, as if in recompense for what they lose through persecution; in like manner as the same is promised to the poor in spirit, to make up for the feeling of want and privation.

On the Ninth Beatitude.

478. What is the Lord's Ninth Precept for blessedness?

They who would be blessed must be ready to take with joy reproach, persecution, suffering, and death itself, for the name of Christ, and for the true orthodox faith.

479. What is the name for the course required by this precept?

The course of martyrdom.

480. What does the Lord promise for this course?

A great reward in heaven; that is, a special and high degree of blessedness.

c28X

Part Three: On Love.

On the Union between Faith and Love.

481. What should be the effect and fruit of true faith in the Christian?

Love, and good works conformable thereto.

In Jesus Christ, says the Apostle Paul, neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision, but faith which worketh by love. (Galatians 5:6)

482. Is not faith alone enough for a Christian, without love and good works ?

No; for faith without love and good works is inactive and dead, and so can not lead to eternal life.

He that loveth not his brother, abideth in death. (1 John 3:14) What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? can faith save him? For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. (James 2:14-16)

483. May not a man, on the other hand, be saved by love and good works, without faith?

It is impossible that a man who has not faith in God should really love him; besides, man, being ruined by sin, can not do really good works, unless he receive through faith in Jesus Christ spiritual strength, or grace from God.

Without faith it is impossible to please God: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. (Hebrews 11:6)

For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse: for it is written, Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. (Galatians 3:10) For we through the spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith. (Galatians 5:5)

For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God: not of works, lest any man should boast. (Ephesians 2:8-9)

484. What is to be thought of such love as is not accompanied by good works?

Such love is not real: for true love naturally shows itself by good works. Jesus Christ says: He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: if a man love me, he will keep my word. (John 14:21, 23)

The Apostle John writes: For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. (1 John 5:3) Let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. (1 John 3:18)

On the Law of God and the Commandments.

485. What means have we to know good works from bad?

The inward law of God, or the witness of our conscience, and the outward law of God, or God's commandments.

486. Does holy Scripture speak of the inward law of God?

The Apostle Paul says of the heathen: Which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the mean while accusing or else excusing one another. (Romans 2:15)

487. If there is in man's heart an inward law, why was the outward given?

It was given because men obeyed not the inward law, but led carnal and sinful lives, and stifled within themselves the voice of the spiritual law, so that it was necessary to put them in mind of it outwardly through the Commandments. Wherefore then serveth the law? It was added because of transgressions. (Galatians 3:19)

488. When and how was God's outward law given to men?

When the Hebrew people, descended from Abraham, had been miraculously delivered from bondage in Egypt, on their way to the promised land, in the desert, on Mount Sinai, God manifested his presence in fire and clouds, and gave them the law, by the hand of Moses, their leader.

489. Which are the chief and general commandments of this law?

The following ten, which were written on two tables of stone:

1. I am the Lord thy God: thou shalt have none other gods beside me.

2. Thou shalt not make unto thyself any graven image, nor the likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the waters under the earth: thou shalt not bow down to them, nor serve them.

3. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain.

4. Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy: six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work; but the Seventh Day is the Sabbath to the Lord thy God.

5. Honor thy father and thy mother, that it may be well with thee, and that thy days may be long upon the earth.

6. Thou shalt not kill.

7. Thou shalt not commit adultery.

8. Thou shalt not steal.

9. Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.

10. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, nor his land, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any of his cattle, nor any thing that is thy neighbor's. (Exodus 20:1-17; Deuteronomy 5:6-21)

490. You said that these Commandments were given to the people of Israel: must we, then, also walk by them?

We must: for they are in substance the same law which, in the words of St. Paul, has been written in the hearts of all men, that all should walk by it.

491. Did Jesus Christ teach men to walk by the Ten Commandments?

He bade men, if they would attain to everlasting life, to keep the Commandments and taught us to understand and fulfill them more perfectly than had been done before he came. (Matthew 5; 19:17)

On the Division of the Commandments into Two Tables.

492. What means the division of the Ten Commandments into two tables?

This: that they contain two kinds of love--love to God, and love to our neighbor; and prescribe two corresponding kinds of duties.

493. Has not Jesus Christ said something of this?

When asked, Which is the great commandment in the law? he replied: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it: Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. (Matthew 23:36-40)

494. Are all men our neighbors?

Yes, all; because all are the creation of one God, and have come from one man: but our neighbors in faith are doubly neighbors to us, as being children of one heavenly Father by faith in Jesus Christ.

495. But why is there no commandment of love to ourselves?

Because we love ourselves naturally, and without any commandment. No man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it. (Ephesians 5:29)

496. What relative order should there be in our love to God, our neighbor, and ourselves?

We should love ourselves not for our own, but for God's sake, and partly also for the sake of our neighbors; we should love our neighbor for the sake of God; but we should love God for himself, and above all. Love of self should be sacrificed to the love of our neighbor; but both should be sacrificed to the love of God.

Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. (John 15:13)

He that loveth father or mother more than me, saith Jesus Christ, is not worthy of me; and he that loveth son or daughter more than me, is not worthy of me. (Matthew 10:37)

497. If the whole law is contained in two commandments, why are they divided into ten?

In order the more clearly to set forth our duties towards God, and towards our neighbor.

498. In which of the Ten Commandments are we taught our duties towards God?

In the first four.

499. What are these duties?

In the First Commandment we are taught to know and worship the true God.

In the Second, to abstain from false worship.

In the Third, not to sin against God's worship even by word.

In the Fourth, to keep a certain order in the time and acts of God's worship.

500. In which of the Ten Commandments are we taught our duties towards our neighbor?

In the last six.

501. What are these duties?

In the Fifth Commandment we are taught to love and honor those of our neighbors who are nearest to us, beginning with our parents.

In the Sixth, not to hurt the life of our neighbor.

In the Seventh, not to hurt the purity of his morals.

In the Eighth, not to hurt his property.

In the Ninth, not to hurt him by word.

In the Tenth, not to wish to hurt him.

502. Do not the Ten Commandments include also our duties towards ourselves?

Yes; these duties are implied in the commandments of the Second Table relating to our neighbors; for our duty is to love our neighbor as ourselves.

On the First Commandment.

503. What mean these words, I am the Lord thy God?

By these words God, as it were, points himself out to man, and so commands him to know the Lord his God.

504. What particular duties may we deduce from the commandment to know God?

1. We must seek to learn the knowledge of God, as being the most essential of all knowledge.

2. We must listen attentively to instructions on God and on his works in church, and to religious conversations on the same at home.

3. We must read, or hear read, books of instruction in the knowledge of God; and in the first place, holy Scripture; secondly, the writings of the holy Fathers.

505. What are we taught in the words, Thou shalt have none other gods but me?

We are taught to turn and cleave to the one true God, or, in other words, devoutly to worship him.

506. What duties are there which refer to the inward worship of God?

1. To believe in God.

2. To walk before God; that is, to be ever mindful of him, and in all things to walk circumspectly, because he seeth not only our actions, but even our most secret thoughts.

3. To fear God, or stand in awe of him; that is, to think the anger of our heavenly Father the greatest ill that can befall us, and therefore strive not to offend him.

4. To trust in God.

5. To love God.

6. To obey God; that is, to be ever ready to do what he commands, and not to murmur when he deals with us otherwise than we could desire.

7. To adore God, as the Supreme Being.

8. To glorify God, as being all-perfect.

9. To give thanks to God, as our Creator, Provident Sustainer, and Saviour.

10. To call upon God, as our all-good and almighty helper, in every good work which we undertake.

507. What duties are there which refer to the outward worship of God?

1. To confess God; that is, to acknowledge that he is our God, and not deny him, although for confessing him we may have to suffer, or even die.

2. To take part in the public divine service enjoined by God and appointed by the Orthodox Church.

508. In order the more exactly to understand and keep the First Commandment, we must know farther what sins there may be against it.

1. Atheism; when men, whom the Psalmist justly calls fools, wishing to rid themselves of the fear of God's judgment, say in their heart, There is no God. (Psalm 14:1)

2. Polytheism; when, instead of the one true God, men acknowledge a number of false deities.

3. Infidelity; when men, who admit the existence of God, disbelieve his providence and his revelation.

4. Heresy; when people mix with the doctrine of the faith opinions contrary to divine truth.

5. Schism; that is, willful departure from the unity of divine worship, and from the Orthodox catholic Church of God.

6. Apostasy; when any deny the true faith from fear of man, or for worldly advantage.

7. Despair; when men give up all hope of obtaining from God grace and salvation.

8. Sorcery; when men, leaving faith in the power of God, put their trust in secret and, for the most part, evil powers of creatures, especially of evil spirits, and seek to work by their means.

9. Superstition; when men put faith in any common thing as if it had divine power, and trust in it instead of trusting in God, or fear it instead of fearing God; as, for instance, when they put faith in an old book, and think they can be saved by none other, and must not use a new one, though the new book contain the very same doctrine, and the very same form of divine service.

10. Sloth, in respect of learning religion, or in respect of prayer, and the public service of God.

11. Love of the creature more than of God.

12. Men-pleasing; when they seek to please men, so as for this to be careless of pleasing God.

13. Trusting in man; when any one trusts in his own means and strength, or in the means and strength of others, and not in the mercy and help of God,

509. Why must we think that men-pleasing and trusting in man are against the First Commandment?

Because the man, whom we please, or in whom we trust, so as to forget God, is in some sort to us another god, in place of the true God.

510. How does holy Scripture speak of men-pleasing?

The Apostle Paul says: For if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ. (Galatians 1:10)

511. How does holy Scripture speak of trusting in man?

Thus saith the Lord: Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, and maketh flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the Lord. Jer. xvii. 5.

512. In order to succeed the better in fulfilling his duties to God, how must a man act by himself?

He must deny himself.

Whosoever will come after me, says Jesus Christ, let him deny himself. (Mark 8:34)

513. What is it to deny one's self?

Basil the Great explains it thus: He denies himself who puts off the old man with his deeds, which is corrupt, according to the deceitful lusts; who renounces also all worldly affections, which can hinder his intention of godliness. Perfect self-denial consists in this, that he cease to have any affection even for life itself, and bear the judgment of death in himself, that he may not trust in himself. (Can. Long. Resp. 8.)

514. What consolation is there for him who, by denying himself, loses many natural gratifications?

The consolation of grace: a divine consolation, which even sufferings themselves can not impair.

For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ. (2 Corinthians 1:5)

515. If the First Commandment teaches us to worship religiously God alone, how does it agree with this commandment to honor angels and holy men?

To pay them due and rightful honor is altogether agreeable to this commandment; because in them we honor the grace of God, which dwells and works in them, and through them seek help from God.

On the Second Commandment.

516. What is a graven image, as spoken of in the Second Commandment?

The commandment itself explains that a graven image, or idol, is the likeness of some creature in heaven, or earth, or in the waters, which men bow down to and serve instead of God their Maker.

517. What is forbidden, then, by the Second Commandment?

We are forbidden to bow down to graven images or idols, as to supposed deities, or as to likenesses of false gods.

518. Are we not hereby forbidden to have any sacred representations whatever?

By no means. This very plainly appears from hence, that the same Moses through whom God gave the commandment against graven images, received at the same time from God an order to place in the tabernacle, or movable temple of the Israelites, sacred representations of Cherubim in gold, and to place them, too, in that inner part of the temple to which the people turned for the worship of God.

519. Why is this example worthy of remark for the Orthodox Christian Church?

Because it illustrates her use of holy icons.

520. What is an icon?

The word is Greek, and means, an image or representation. In the Orthodox Church this name designates sacred representations of our Lord Jesus Christ, God incarnate, his immaculate Mother, and his saints.

521. Is the use of holy icons agreeable to the Second Commandment?

It would then, and then only, be otherwise, if any one were to make gods of them; but it is not in the least contrary to this commandment to honor icons as sacred representations, and to use them for the religious remembrance of God's works and of his saints; for when thus used icons are books, written with the forms of persons and things instead of letters. (See Greg. Magn. lib. ix. Ep. 9, ad Seren. Episc.)

522. What disposition of mind should we have when we reverence the icons?

While we look on them with our eyes, we should mentally look to God and to the saints, who are represented on them.

523. What general name is there for sin against the Second Commandment?

Idolatry.

524. Are there not also other sins against this commandment?

Besides gross idolatry there is yet another sort more subtle, to which belong--

1. Covetousness.

2. Belly-service or sensuality, gluttony, and drunkenness.

3. Pride, to which belongs likewise vanity.

525. Why is covetousness referred to idolatry?

The Apostle Paul expressly says that covetousness is idolatry (Colossians 3:5); because the covetous man serves riches rather than God.

526. If the Second Commandment forbid the love of gain, what contrary duties does it thereby necessarily enjoin?

Those of contentedness and liberality.

527. Why is belly-service referred to idolatry?

Because belly-servers set sensual gratification above every thing, and therefore the Apostle Paul says that their god is their belly; or, in other words, that the belly is their idol. (Philippians 3:19)

528. If the Second Commandment forbid belly-service, what contrary duties does it thereby enjoin?

Those of temperance and fasting.

529. Why are pride and vanity referred to idolatry?

Because the proud man values above every thing his own abilities and excellences, and so they are his idol; the vain man wishes further that others also should worship the same idol. These proud and vain dispositions were exemplified even sensibly in Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, who first set up for himself a golden idol, and then ordered all to worship it. (Daniel 3)

530. Is there not still another vice which is near to idolatry?

Such a vice is hypocrisy; when a man uses the outward acts of religion, as fasting, and the strict observance of ceremonies, in order to obtain respect from the people, without thinking of the inward amendment of his heart. (Matthew 6:5-7)

531. If the Second Commandment forbid pride, vanity, and hypocrisy, what contrary duties does it thereby enjoin?

Those of humility, and doing good in secret

On the Third Commandment.

532. When is God's name taken in vain?

It is taken or uttered in vain when it is uttered in vain and unprofitable talk, and still more so when it is uttered lyingly or irreverently.

533. What sins are forbidden by the Third Commandment?

1. Blasphemy, or daring words against God.

2. Murmuring, or complaining against God's providence.

3. Profaneness; when holy things are jested on, or insulted.

4. Inattention in prayer.

5. Perjury; when men affirm with an oath what is false.

6. Oath-breaking; when men keep not just and lawful oaths.

7. Breach of vows made to God.

8. Common swearing, or thoughtless oaths in common talk.

534. Are not such oaths specially forbidden in holy Scripture?

The Saviour says: I say unto you, Swear not at all, but let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil. (Matthew 5:34, 37)

535. Does not this go to forbid all oaths in civil matters?

The Apostle Paul says: Men swear by the greater; and an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife. Wherein God, willing more abundantly to show unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath. (Hebrews 6:16-17) Hence we must conclude, that if God himself for an immutable assurance used an oath, much more may we on grave and necessary occasions, when required by lawful authority, take an oath or vow religiously, with the firm intention of not breaking it.

On the Fourth Commandment.

536. Why is it commanded to keep the Seventh, rather than any other day, holy to God?

Because God in six days made the world, and on the Seventh Day rested from the work of creation.

537. Is the Sabbath kept in the Christian Church?

It is not kept, strictly speaking, as a holy day; but still in memory of the creation of the world, and in continuation of its original observance, it is distinguished from the other days of the week by a relaxation of the rule for fasting.

538. How, then, does the Christian Church obey the Fourth Commandment?

She still to every six days keeps a seventh, only not the last of the seven days, which is the Sabbath, but the first day in every week, which is the Day of the Resurrection, or Lord's Day.

539. Since when do we keep the Day of the Resurrection?

From the very time of Christ's resurrection.

540. Is there any mention in holy Scripture of keeping the day of the Resurrection?

In the book of the Acts of the Apostles it is mentioned that the disciples--that is, the Christians--came together on the first day after the Sabbath, which was the first day of the week, or Day of the Resurrection, for the breaking of bread, that is to say, for the celebration of the Sacrament of the Communion. (Acts 20:7) The Apostle and Evangelist John also in the Apocalypse mentions the Lord's Day, or the Day of the Resurrection.

541. Is there not yet something more to be understood under the name of the Seventh Day, or Sabbath?

As in the Church of the Old Testament the name Sabbath was understood to include divers other days appointed like the Sabbath for festivals or fasts, as the festival of the Passover, and the day of Atonement, so likewise are we now in the Christian Church bound to keep, besides the Lord's Day, certain others also, which have been appointed as festivals to the glory of God and the honor of the Blessed Virgin and other saints, or as days of fasting. (See Orthod. Confess. Pt. III. Q. 60; Pt. I. Q. 88.)

542. Which are the chief festivals?

Those appointed in memory of the chief events relating to the Incarnation of the Son of God for our salvation, and to the Manifestation of the Godhead; after these, those appointed in honor of the Most Holy Mother of God, as the instrument of the mystery of the Incarnation. Such, in the order of the events, are the following:

1. The day of the birth of the Most Holy Mother of God.

2. The day of her being brought to the Temple to be dedicated to God.

3. The day of the Annunciation; that is, when the angel announced to the Most Holy Virgin the Incarnation of the Son of God.

4. The day of the birth of Jesus Christ.

5. The day of the baptism of our Lord, and the Epiphany, or Manifestation of the Most Holy Trinity.

6. The day of our Lord's being met in the Temple by Simeon.

7. The day of our Lord's Transfiguration.

8. The day of our Lord's entry into Jerusalem.

9. Pascha, or Easter: the feast of feasts, the anticipation of the everlasting feast of everlasting blessedness.

10. The day of our Lord's Ascension into heaven.

11. The feast of Pentecost; in memory of the Descent of the Holy Spirit, and in honor of the Most Holy Trinity.

12. The day of the Elevation of the Cross of our Lord, discovered by the Empress Helena.

13. The day of the Rest of the Most Holy Mother of God.

543. What is the chief fast?

The Great Fast; that is, Lent, or Quadragesima.

544. Why is it called Quadragesima?

Because it continues forty days, besides the week of Christ's Passion.

545. Why has it been appointed that the great fast should continue forty days?

After the example of Jesus Christ himself, who fasted forty days. (Matthew 4:2)

546. Why has it been appointed to fast on the Wednesday and the Friday?

On Wednesday, in memory of the betrayal of our Lord Jesus Christ to suffer; and on Friday, in memory of his actual suffering and death.

547. For what cause are the fasts before the Nativity, the Rest of the Blessed Virgin and the Day of the Holy Apostles?

The first two as preparatory exercises of abstinence, the better to honor the ensuing feasts of the Nativity, and of the Rest of the Mother of God; the last not only for like reason, but also in imitation of the Apostles, who fasted to prepare themselves for the work of preaching the Gospel. (Acts 13:3)

548. How should we spend our time on Sundays, and the other greater holy days, in order to keep the Fourth Commandment?

First, on these days we should not labor, or do worldly and temporal business; secondly, we should keep them holy, that is, use them for holy and spiritual works, to the glory of God.

549. Why are we forbidden to work on holy days?

That we may with the less hindrance employ them in holy and godly works.

550. What particular things is it fit to do on holy days?

First, to go to church, for the public worship, and for instruction in the Word of God.

Secondly, when at home, to give ourselves to prayer and reading, or edifying conversation.

Thirdly, to dedicate to God a portion of our means, expending it on the necessities of the Church and her ministers, and in alms to the poor, to visit the sick and prisoners, and to do other works of Christian charity.

551. But should we not do such things on work-days also?

It is well, if any can; but he whom business prevents should at any rate devote holy days to such works. But as regards prayer, it is certainly our bounden duty to use it every day, morning and evening, before and after both dinner and supper, and, as far as possible, at the beginning and ending of every work.

552. What are we to think of those who on holy days allow themselves to indulge in indecent plays and shows, vulgar songs, and intemperance in meat and drink?

Such people greatly desecrate holy days For if even works innocent and useful for this present life are unfit for holy days, much more such as these, which are unprofitable, carnal, and vicious.

553. When the Fourth Commandment speaks of working six days, does it not thereby condemn those who do nothing?

Without doubt it condemns all who on common days do not give themselves to works befitting their calling, but spend their time in idleness and dissipation.

On the Fifth Commandment.

554. What special duties are prescribed by the Fifth Commandment in regard to parents, under the general phrase of honoring them?

1. To behave respectfully to them.

2. To obey them.

3. To support and comfort them in sickness and age.

4. After their death, as well as during their lives, to pray for the salvation of their souls; and faithfully to fulfill their last wills, so far as they are not contrary to law, divine or civil. See (2 Maccabees 12:43-44; Jeremiah 35:18-19; J. Damasc. Serm. de Mort.)

555. What degree of sin is there in undutifulness to parents?

In proportion as it is easy and natural to love and honor parents, to whom we owe our being, the more grievous is the sin of undutifulness towards them: for this cause in the law of Moses he that cursed father or mother was to be put to death. (Exodus 21:17)

556. Why has this particular commandment to honor parents a promise added to it of prosperity and long life?

That men by a visible reward might be the more moved to fulfill a commandment on which the good order first of families and afterwards of all social life depends.

557. How is this promise fulfilled?

The examples of the old Patriarchs or Fathers show that God gives special force to the blessing of parents. (Genesis 27) The blessing of the father establishes the houses of the children. (Sirach 3:9) God of his wise and just providence specially protects the life and promotes the prosperity of such as honor their parents upon earth; but for the perfect reward of the perfect virtue he gives everlasting life and blessedness in the heavenly country.

558. Why in those commandments which teach love to our neighbors is mention made first of all of parents?

Because parents are naturally nearer to us than all others.

559. Are there not others also to be understood in the Fifth Commandment under the name of parents?

Yes; all who in different relations stand to us in the place of parents.

560. Who stand to us in the place of parents?

1. Our sovereign and our country; for an empire is a great family, in which the sovereign is father, and the subjects children of the sovereign and their country.

2. Our spiritual pastors and teachers; for they by their doctrine and by the Sacraments beget us to spiritual life, and nurture us up in it.

3. Our elders in age.

4. Our benefactors.

5. Our governors, or superiors, in different relations.

561. How does holy Scripture speak of the honor due to the sovereign?

Let every soul be subject to the higher powers. For there is no power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God. (Romans 13:1-2)

Wherefore ye must needs be subject, not only for wrath, but also for conscience' sake. (Romans 13:5)

My son, fear God and the king, and oppose neither of them. (Proverbs 24:21)

Render therefore unto Cæsar the things which are Cæsar's; and unto God the things that are God's. (Matthew 22:21)

Fear God; honor the king. (1 Peter 2:17)

562. How far should love to our sovereign and country go?

So far as to make us ready to lay down our life for them. (John 15:13)

563. How does holy Scripture speak of the duty of honoring spiritual pastors and teachers?

Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that is unprofitable for you. (Hebrews 13:17)

564. Is there in holy Scripture any particular injunction to honor elders in age as parents?

The Apostle Paul writes to Timothy thus: Rebuke not an elder, but entreat him as a father; younger men as brethren; elder women as mothers. (1 Timothy 5:1-2)

Thou shalt rise up before the hoary head, and honor the face of the old man, and fear the Lord thy God. (Leviticus 19:32)

565. How may we be assured that we ought to honor benefactors as parents?

By the example of Jesus Christ himself, who was subject to Joseph; although Joseph was not his father, but only his guardian. (Luke 2:51)

566. Besides these, who are our superiors, whom we must honor after parents, and like them?

They who in place of parents take care of our education, as governors in schools, and masters; they who preserve us from irregularities and disorders in society, as civil magistrates; they who protect us from wrong by the power of the law, as judges; they to whom the sovereign intrusts the guardianship and defense of the public safety against enemies, as military commanders; and, lastly, masters, so far as relates to those who serve them, or belong to them.

567. What does holy Scripture prescribe as to our duty with respect to authorities generally?

Render therefore to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is due; custom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honor to whom honor. (Romans 13:7)

568. How does holy Scripture speak of the obedience due from servants and serfs to their masters?

Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as unto Christ; not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but as the servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart. (Ephesians 6:5-6)

Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, out also to the froward. (1 Peter 2:18)

569. If holy Scripture prescribe duties towards parents, does it not likewise prescribe duties towards children?

It does.

Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. (Ephesians 6:4)

570. How does holy Scripture speak of the duty of pastors towards their spiritual flock?

Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof not by constraint, but willingly, and according to God; not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind; neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being ensamples to the flock.. (1 Peter 5:2-3)

571. How does holy Scripture speak of the duty of them that are in authority, and of masters?

Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven. (Colossians 4:1)

572. How ought we to act, if it fall out that our parents or governors require of us any thing contrary to the faith or to the law of God?

In that case we should say to them, as the Apostles said to the rulers of the Jews: Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye; and we should be ready, for the sake of the faith and the law of God, to endure the consequences, whatever they may be. (Acts 4:19)

573. What is the general name for that quality or virtue which is required by the Fifth Commandment?

Obedience.

On the Sixth Commandment.

574. What is forbidden by the Sixth Commandment?

Murder; that is, taking away the life of our neighbor in any manner whatever.

575. Is it in all cases murder, and against this commandment, to kill?

No. It is not murder, nor against this commandment, when life is taken in the execution of duty; as, when a criminal is punished with death, by just judgment; nor, again, when an enemy is killed in war, in defense of our sovereign and country.

576. What is to be thought of involuntary homicide, when a man is killed accidentally and unintentionally?

The man who is guilty of involuntary homicide can not be reckoned blameless, unless he took all proper precautions against the accident; at any rate, he needs to have his conscience cleansed according to the Canons of the Church.

577. What cases must be reckoned as murder, and as breaches of this commandment?

Besides direct murder, by whatever means, the same sin may be committed in the following, and in similar cases:

1. When a judge condemns a prisoner whom he knows to be innocent.

2. When any one conceals or sets free a murderer, and so gives him opportunity for fresh crime.

3. When any one can save his neighbor from death, but does not save him; as, when a rich man suffers a poor man to die of hunger.

4. When any one by excessive burdens and cruel punishments wears out those under him, and so hastens their death.

5. When any one, through intemperance or other vices, shortens his own life.

578. What are we to think of suicide?

That it is the most criminal of all murders. For if it be contrary to nature to kill another man like unto ourselves, much more is it, contrary to nature to kill our own selves. Our life is not our own, but God's who gave it.

579. What are we to think of duels, to decide private quarrels?

Since the decision of private quarrels belongs to government, while the duelist, instead of having recourse to law, willfully determines on an act which involves manifest danger of death both to himself and his opponent, it is evident that a duel implies three dreadful crimes-- rebellion, murder, and suicide.

580. Besides murder of the body, is there not such a thing as spiritual murder?

A kind of spiritual murder is the causing of offense: when any one causes his neighbor to fall into infidelity or into sin, and so subjects his soul to spiritual death.

The Saviour says: Whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea. (Matthew 18:6)

581. Are there not still some more subtle forms of murder?

To this sin are more or less referable all acts and words against charity; all which unjustly affect the peace and security of our neighbor; and, lastly, all inward malice against him, even though it be not shown openly.

Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer. (1 John 3:15)

582. When we are forbidden to hurt the life of our neighbor, what positive duty is thereby enjoined?

That of doing all we can to secure his life and well-being.

583. What duties follow from hence?

Those of--

1. Helping the poor.

2. Ministering to the sick.

3. Comforting the afflicted.

4. Alleviating the distress of the unfortunate.

5. Behaving in a gentle, affectionate, and edifying manner to all.

6. Reconciling ourselves with those that are angry.

7. Forgiving injuries.

8. Doing good to our enemies.

On the Seventh Commandment.

584. What is forbidden by the Seventh Commandment?

Adultery.

585. What forms of sin are forbidden under the name of adultery?

The Apostle Paul would have Christians not even to speak of such impurities. (Ephesians 5:3) It is only of necessity, to forewarn people against such sins, that we shall here name some of them. Such are--

1. Fornication; or irregular carnal love between unmarried persons.

2. Adultery; when married persons unlawfully give that love which they owe each other to strangers.

3. Incest; when near relations enter into a union like that of matrimony.

586. What does our Saviour teach us to think of adultery?

He has said that Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. (Matthew 5:28)

587. What should we do in order to guard against falling into this subtle inward adultery?

We should avoid every thing that may excite impure feelings in the heart; as wanton songs and dances, lewd conversation, immodest games and jokes, immodest sights, and the reading of books which contain descriptions of impure love. We should strive, according to the Gospel, not even to look on that which may cause us to fall.

If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee; for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should he cast into hell. (Matthew 5:29)

588. Must we, then, literally pluck out the offending eye?

We must pluck it out, not with the hand, but with the will. He who has firmly resolved not even to look upon that which causes him to offend hath already plucked out the offending eye.

589. When the sin of adultery is forbidden, what contrary virtues are thereby enjoined?

Those of conjugal love and fidelity; and, for such as can receive it, perfect purity and chastity.

590. How does holy Scripture speak of the duties of man and wife?

Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the Church, and gave himself for it. (Ephesians 5:25) Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord; for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the Church; and he is the Saviour of the body. (Ephesians 5:22-23)

591. What motives does holy Scripture set before us to make us flee fornication and live chastely?

It bids us keep our bodies in purity, because they are the members of Christ, and temples of the Holy Spirit;while, on the other hand, he who committeth fornication sinneth against his own body; that is, corrupts it, infects it with diseases, and, further, hurts his mental faculties, such as imagination and memory. (See 1 Corinthians 6:15, 18-19)

On the Eighth Commandment.

592. What is forbidden by the Eighth Commandment?

To steal, or in any way appropriate to ourselves that which belongs to another.

593. What particular sins are forbidden thereby?

The chief are--

1. Robbery, or the taking of any thing that belongs to another openly, by force.

2. Theft, or taking what belongs to another privily.

3. Fraud, or appropriating to ourselves any thing that is another's by artifice; as when men pass off counterfeit money for true, or bad wares for good; or use false weights and measures, to give less than they have sold; or conceal their effects to avoid paying their debts; or do not honestly fulfill contracts, or execute wills; when they screen others guilty of dishonesty, and so defraud the injured of justice.

4. Sacrilege, or appropriating to ourselves what has been dedicated to God, or belongs to the Church.

5. Spiritual sacrilege, when one sinfully gives and another fraudulently obtains any sacred office, not of desert, but for gain.

6. Bribery; when men receive a bribe from those under them in office or jurisdiction, and for gain promote the unworthy, acquit the guilty, or oppress the innocent.

7. Eating the bread of idleness; when men receive salary for duty, or pay for work, which they neglect, and so in fact steal both their pay and that profit which society, or he whom they served, should have had of their labor; in like manner when they who are able to support themselves by work, instead of so doing live upon alms.

8. Extortion; when, under the show of some right, but really against equity and humanity, men make their own advantage of the property, the labors, or even the misfortunes of others; as when creditors oppress their debtors by usury; when masters wear out their dependents by excessive imposts or tasks; when in time of famine men sell bread at an exorbitant price.

594. When these sins are forbidden, what contrary virtues are thereby enjoined?

Those of--

1. Disinterestedness.

2. Good faith in performing engagements.

3. Justice.

4. Mercy to the poor.

595. Does he, then, who is not merciful to the poor sin against the Eighth Commandment?

Certainly he does, if he have the means of assisting them; for all that we have belongs properly to God, and our abundance is given us by his Providence for the assistance of the poor; wherefore, if we do not impart to them of our abundance, we do in fact thereby rob and defraud them of their right, and the gift of God.

596. Is there not yet a higher virtue contrary to sins against the Eighth Commandment?

Such a virtue is absolute poverty, or the renunciation of all property; which is proposed by the Gospel not as a duty for all, but as a counsel for them that would be perfect.

If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor; and thou shalt hare treasure in heaven. (Matthew 19:21)

On the Ninth Commandment.

597. What is forbidden by the Ninth Commandment?

False witness against our neighbor, and all lying.

598. What is forbidden under the words false witness?

1. False witness in a court of justice; when men bear witness, inform, or complain falsely against any one.

2. False witness out of court, when men slander any one behind his back, or blame him to his face unjustly.

599. But is it allowable to censure others when they are really to blame?

No; the Gospel does not allow us to judge even of the real vices or faults of our neighbors, unless we are called by any special office to do so, for their punishment or amendment.

Judge not, that ye be not judged. (Matthew 7:1)

600. Are not such lies allowable as involve no purpose of hurting our neighbor?

No; for they are inconsistent with love and respect for our neighbor, and unworthy of a man, much more of a Christian, who has been created for truth and love.

Wherefore putting away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbor; for we are members one of another. (Ephesians 4:25)

601. If we would avoid sins against the Ninth Commandment, what rule must we follow?

We must bridle our tongue. He that will love life, and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak, no guile. (1 Peter 3:10) If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion is vain. (James 1:26)

On the Tenth Commandment.

602. What is forbidden by the Tenth Commandment?

All wishes inconsistent with charity to our neighbor, and thoughts which are inseparable from such wishes.

603. Why are we forbidden not only evil deeds, but also evil wishes and thoughts?

First, because when the soul entertains any evil wishes or thoughts, it is already impure in God's sight, and unworthy of him; as Solomon says: The unjust thought is an abomination to the Lord. (Proverbs 15:26) And therefore we must needs cleanse ourselves also from these inward impurities also, as the Apostle teaches: Let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. (2 Corinthians 7:1)

Secondly, because, to prevent sinful acts, it is necessary to crush sinful wishes and thoughts, from which, as from seeds, such actions spring; as it is said: For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies. (Matthew 15:19) Every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed. Then, when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin; and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. (James 1:14-15)

604. When we are forbidden to desire any thing of our neighbor's, what passion is thereby condemned?

Envy.

605. What is forbidden by the words, Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife?

All lustful thoughts and wishes, or inward adultery.

606. What is forbidden by the words, Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, nor his land, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any of his cattle, nor any thing that is his?

All thoughts of avarice and ambition.

607. What positive duties, corresponding to these prohibitions, are prescribed by the Tenth Commandment?

First, to keep purity of heart.

Secondly, to be content with our lot.

608. What is indispensable for the cleansing of the heart?

The frequent and earnest invocation of the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

c2NP

Conclusion.

Application of the Doctrine of Faith and Piety.

609. How must we apply the doctrine of faith and piety?

We must act according to our knowledge, and keep before our eyes the fearful judgment threatened for disobedience.

If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them. (John 13:17) That servant which knew his Lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. (Luke 12:47)

610. What must a man do when he is conscious of any sin?

Not only should lie immediately repent, and firmly resolve to avoid the same sin for the future, but also strive, as far as possible, to repair the scandal or injury that he has wrought by contrary good deeds.

Thus it was that Zaccheus the Publican acted, when he said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken any thing away from any one by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. (Luke 19:8)

611. What caution do we need when we seem to ourselves to have fulfilled any commandment?

We must then dispose our hearts according to the words of Jesus Christ: When ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done that which was our duty to do. (Luke 17:10)

c2P7

The Catechism of Peter Mogila

Part I: Of Faith.

1. What does it behove a catholic and orthodox Christian to believe and do, that he may have eternal life?

Right faith and good works; for whosoever holds these two, the same is a good Christian, and has certain hope of eternal salvation, as says the Scripture, You see then how that by good works a man is justified, and not by faith only (James 2:24); and a little after, For as the body without the spirit is dead; so faith without works is dead also (James 2:26). St. Paul affirms the same: Holding faith and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith, have made shipwreck (1 Timothy 1:19). And again, Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience (1 Timothy 3:9).

2. Wherefore does it behove a Christian first to believe, and then to do good works?

Because without faith none can please God, as says St. Paul, Without faith it is impossible to please him: For he that comes to God, must believe that he is; and that he is a rewarder of them who diligently seek him (Hebrews 11:6). That a Christian therefore be acceptable to God, and his works pleasing before him, it is necessary that, first, he have faith in God; and secondly, that he guide his life by that faith.

3. In what do these two consist?

In these three theological virtues, faith, hope, and love; into which three parts it is our intent to divide this Confession (Greek: ‘Ομολογίας); namely, in Part One we shall treat concerning faith and the Creed: In Part Two, of hope and the Lord's Prayer, and the evangelical Beatitudes: And, lastly, in Part Three, of love, and the divine Law, in which the love of God and of our neighbor is contained.

4. What is faith?

Faith, according to St. Paul, is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen; for by it the Elders have obtained a good report (Hebrews 11:1-2); Or, the orthodox, catholic, and apostolic faith is to believe with the heart and confess with the mouth, one God in three Persons. As the same apostle teaches us, With the heart is believed unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation (Romans 10:10).

Further, every Orthodox Christian ought firmly and without doubting, to believe all the Articles of Faith that the catholic and Orthodox Church believes; which were delivered to the Church from our Lord Jesus Christ by the Apostles: And which have been expounded and approved by Ecumenical Councils (cf. Canon 1 of the Quinisext Council, in Trullo).[95] He is also to believe these with a real and sincere faith; as the Apostle commandeth, Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and hold the traditions which you have been taught, whether by word or our epistle (2 Thessalonians 2:15). And again elsewhere, Now I praise you, brethren, that you remember me in all things, and keep the traditions as I have delivered them unto you (1 Corinthians 11:2).

From hence it is manifest that the Articles of Faith have received their authority and approbation partly from the holy Scriptures, partly from ecclesiastical Tradition, and the doctrines of Councils, and of the holy Fathers; which matter St. Dionysius thus explains:

The Oracles delivered of God are the essence and foundation of this our Hierarchy. Of these we chiefly reverence whatever our divine teachers the Apostles have delivered unto us in the sacred and theological books; and next those things in which those most holy men instituted and initiated our instructors and leaders by a kind of immaterial initiation, and, as it were, from the very transcript of the Celestial Hierarchy; as it were, by a communication from mind to mind; by the means indeed of corporeal speech, but not the materiality of writing. (Ecclesiastical Hierarchy, Chapter 1.4)

That is, the precepts of the Church are of two kinds, (1) the one committed to writing, which are contained in the divine books of sacred Scripture, and (2) the other delivered from the Apostles by word of mouth. These are the same which the Councils and holy Fathers did afterwards more at large declare.

On this twofold foundation stands built our Faith, which it is our duty not only to hold in the private space of our own heart, but undauntedly, and without doubting, to preach and profess openly with our mouths, according to the holy Psalmist and to St. Paul, I believed, and therefore have I spoken; we believe, and therefore speak (2 Corinthians 4:13; cf. Psalms 116:10).

Of the Creed.

5. What are the Articles of the catholic and Orthodox Faith?

The Articles of the Orthodox and catholic Faith are twelve in number, according to the Creed of the First Council, held at Nicaea (325 A.D.), and the Second, held at Constantinople (381 A.D.): In which Councils everything belonging to our Faith is laid down so accurately, and at large, that neither are we to believe more nor ought we to believe less, than is therein expressed; nor may we understand or construe it in any other sense than did those Fathers.

​The Creed is:[96]

I believe in one God, the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth, and of all things visible and invisible. 

And in one Lord Jesus Christ; the Son of God; the Only-begotten; Begotten of the Father before all ages; Light of Light; true God of true God; begotten, not made; of one essence with the Father; by whom all things were made. 

Who for us men, and for our salvation, came down from heaven, and was incarnate of the Holy Spirit and the Virgin Mary, and became man. 

And he was crucified for us under Pontius Pilate, suffered and was buried. 

And the third day he rose again, according to the Scriptures. 

And ascended into Heaven, and sits at the right hand of the Father. 

And he shall come again with glory to judge both the living and the dead; whose Kingdom shall have no end. 

And in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the Giver of Life; who proceeds from the Father; who with the Father and the Son together is worshipped and glorified; who spoke by the Prophets. 

And in one, holy, catholic, and apostolic Church. 

I confess one Baptism for the remission of sins. 

I look for the resurrection of the dead. 

And the life of the world to come. Amen.

c2SC

The First Article: Of God.

Of His Oneness and Triunity.

6. What is the First Article of Faith?

I believe in one God, the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth, and of all things visible and invisible.

7. What are the doctrines contained in this Article of Faith?

This Article includes two doctrines:

First, that we should believe and confess that God is One (Deuteronomy 6:4), to be glorified in most holy Trinity, and that in this divinity the Father is the origin and root (ἡ ἀρχὴ καὶ ῤίζα) of the Son and the Holy Spirit.

Secondly, that this Triune God created all things out of nothing (ex nihilo), both visible and invisible; as testifies the holy Prophet David, He spoke, and they were made; he commanded, and they were created (Psalm 33:9).

8. How ought I to think of God?

You ought to believe that God is one in most holy Trinity, according to these words of Scripture: One God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in us all (Ephesians 4:6): Who, out of his infinite goodness, created this world from nothing (ex nihilo), that other beings, in glorifying him might partake of his goodness; not that he wanted anything; being in himself most completely glorious and perfect.

Yet cannot any created beings, whether visible or invisible, not even the Angels themselves, thoroughly comprehend the nature of God, forasmuch as there can be no proportion or comparison between the Creator and the creature, it is sufficient for us if, as says St. Cyril of Jerusalem, we rightly profess to have one eternal and unchangeable God, beside him there is no other God (Catechetical Lectures 6.7).

As the Lord himself has declared by his Prophet Isaiah, I am God, the First and the Last; beside me there is no other God (Isaiah 44:6). After the same manner, also, Moses exhorts the Children of Israel, Hear, O Israel: The Lord is our God, the Lord is One (Deuteronomy 6:4; LXX: κύριος ὁ θεὸς ἡμῶν κύριος εἷς ἐστίν).

9. But, if God is One, it seems, of necessity, that he should also be one only in Person.

It is not necessarily so; for although God, in his nature and essence (τὴν φύσιν καὶ τὴν οὐσίαν), is indeed but One; yet he is in three hypostases (τρισυπόστατος):[97] As our Savior himself teaches, saying unto his Apostles, Go, teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit (Matthew 28:19). From whence it is manifest that in one and the same Godhead there are three distinct Persons (τρία πρόσωπα): the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit — The Father, of whose proper essence the Son was begotten, and the Holy Spirit Proceeded before all ages; The Son, Begotten before all worlds by the Father and consubstantial (ὁμοούσιος) with him; The Holy Spirit, proceeding from the Father from all eternity, and co-essential (ὁμοούσιον) with the Father and the Son,[98] as St. John of Damascus explains in these words, The Son and the Holy Spirit are from the same Cause, namely, the Father (Exposition of the Faith, Book 1, Chapter 8); and elsewhere, The Son is of the Father as being begotten; the Holy Spirit is also of the Father, not as being begotten, but as proceeding (ibid).

Furthermore, St. Gregory of Nazianzus, the Theologian, on these words of the Apostle: of him, and through him, and to him are all things (Romans 11:36), speaks thus: The first, (i.e., of him) we apply to the Father, the second (that is, through him) to the Son, and the third (that is, to him) to the Holy Spirit (Oration 31: Fifth Theological Oration: On the Holy Spirit, Paragraph 20); from whence it is manifest that, in the Godhead, there is a Trinity.[99]

Wherefore, without any difference or distinction, we are baptizing in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit; for what the Father is in his nature, the same is the Son and the Holy Spirit. Now the Father is, in his nature, true and eternal God, the Creator of all things both visible and invisible. Such therefore is the Son, entirely without any difference, and the Holy Spirit; and all these are consubstantial with each other.

Accordingly the Evangelist teaches, There are three that bear record in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit, and these three are one (1 John 5:7).[100] In which words this only is to be excepted, that, as to the divine essence, the Father is the Cause of the Son and the Holy Spirit, inasmuch as both these Persons have their Origin from him, and he from none.

Thus we are taught by our Savior Jesus, who is eternal Truth itself. Thus have we received from the holy Apostles. Thus, and thus only, have both Ecumenical and Regional Councils, and the teachers of the Church, taught, declared, and decreed. And thus our Orthodox and catholic Church professes and teaches. For this Faith the holy martyrs poured out their blood, and laid down their lives. And this Faith we must, with our whole hearts, steadfastly believe and keep firm and unshaken, laying down our lives for it, if requisite, through the hope of eternal salvation; which, our good works cooperating (συνεργούντων καὶ τῶν ἀγαθῶν ἡμῶν ἔργων), we shall be crowned with everlastingly in heaven.

10. I would have this mystery of the holy Trinity more fully explained to me.

No comparison can be made which would fully explain this mystery so as that we should clearly comprehend how God, who is in essence (οὐσίαν) but One, should be three in hypostases (ὑποστάσεις). No likeness, nor example, can sufficiently express him; as God, whose name is the LORD, does himself testify, saying, To whom will you liken me, and make me equal, and compare me, that we may be alike? (Isaiah 46:5) For neither the mind of man, nor Angel, is able to conceive, or to express, this wondrous truth: wherefore we should wisely say, with the Apostle:

Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God; and bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. (2 Corinthians 10:5)

We believe, with a firm faith, that God the Father, self-existing (ὑπάρχων, i.e. aseity) from eternity to eternity, depending on none, begets (παραγόμενος γεννᾷ) the Son, and produces (προάγει) the Holy Spirit: As St. Athanasius, in his Creed(σύμβολόν), does more fully, and at large, declare.[101] And being content with this simplicity of faith, let us search no further. For the inquisitive searcher into the hidden things of God is forbidden in holy Scripture:

Do not seek out the things that are too hard for you; neither search the things that are above your strength; but what is commanded you, think thereupon with reverence; for it is not needful for you to see with your eyes the things that are in secret. (Sirach 3:21-22)

Let it therefore suffice us, that those same Scriptures of the Old Law, at the same time that they declare unto us one God, do also teach us three Persons (πρόσωπα), for God said, Let us make man after our image and in our likeness (Genesis 1:26); and, Behold the man is become as one of us (Genesis 3:22); and, Come, let us go down and there confound their language (Genesis 11:7). And the Prophets expressly declare this, saying, And one [Angel] cried unto another, and said, “Holy, holy, holy, Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory” (Isaiah 6:3). In like manner the holy Psalmist, By the Word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the Spirit of his mouth (Psalm 33:6). To this same purpose the blessed Scriptures, and the teachers of the Church are full.

Of the Attributes of God.

11. What are the attributes of God?

As God himself is incomprehensible; so also are his attributes. Yet so much as we can learn concerning them from the Scriptures, and the teachers of the Church, we may think and declare of them. We may therefore consider the divine attributes as Personal or Essential.

12. What are the Personal attributes of God?

The Personal attributes of the Godhead are those by which the Persons in the most holy Trinity are distinguished from each other.

As what pertains to one cannot pertain to another, thus the Person of the Father is not the Person of the Son, for the Father is begotten of none, but the Son was begotten according to nature (κατὰ φύσιν) of the Father before all ages, as say the Scriptures, The dew of your birth is from the womb of the morning (Psalm 110:3).

Thus Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are, respectively, Unbegotten, Begotten, and Proceeding, each Personal attribute being peculiar to the respective Person: This is what distinguishes the divine Persons, but does not divide their essence (οὐσία), which in itself is undividable, only separated from created beings.

Now as the Unbegotten and the Begotten cannot be the same Person, so are we to consider the Holy Spirit, who Proceeds from the essence (οὐσία) and nature (φύσις) of the Father, without any beginning of time, that is, from all eternity, yet distinct from him in his Personal attribute as Proceeding from the Father, and is consubstantial (ὁμοούσιος) with the Father and the Son.

And in like manner the Holy Spirit is distinguished from the Son, as being from the same Father, but not by Generation like the Son, but by Procession, and therein co-essential (ὁμοούσιος) with the Son, as being from the same nature (φύσις) of the Father, with whom they are both consubstantial (ὁμοούσιος), as being of the same nature (φύσις) with him. On which thus discourses St. Gregory of Nazianzus, the Theologian:

This is common to the Son and the Holy Spirit, that both Persons are from the Father. But this is peculiar to the Father, that he is Unbegotten, as it is to the Son, that he is Begotten, and to the Holy Spirit, that he Proceeds. (Oration 25.16)

And further, the whole economy of the Incarnation is a Personal attribute of the Son, for neither the Father nor the Holy Spirit were incarnate. Thus does the holy, catholic, and apostolic Church teach us to believe and confess: God, One in nature (φύσις), in three Persons.[102] 

13. What are the Essential attributes of God?

The Essential attributes (οὐσιώδη ἰδιώματα) of God are those which equally belong to the Father, to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: Namely, to be God, to be Creator, to be Foreknowing, to Behold all things, to be Present with all things, to Fill all things, to be Infinite and Boundless, to Know all things, whether hidden or manifest; and to sum up all in a few words, besides the Personal attributes before-mentioned, as of the Father to be Unbegotten, and the Cause of the Persons, of the Son to be Begotten and Incarnate, and of the Holy Spirit to Proceed; whatever else is said of God is properly an attribute of the divine nature, and equally pertains to the three Persons without any difference and distinction.

14. Why is only this attribute, Almighty, expressed in the first Articles of the Creed?

Because this Word, Almighty, most fully expresses the unique attribute of the divine nature, since no created being can be called Almighty; and that for two reasons: namely first, for that it does not derive its nature from itself but from its Creator; and, secondly, because no created Being can produce something out of nothing (ex nihilo), which almightiness alone can do.

And God has declared his almightiness in the Revelation to St. John, “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End,” says the Lord, “who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty” (Revelation 1:8). The same says the Archangel Gabriel, With God nothing shall be impossible (Luke 1:37).

Nevertheless, this universal power and almightiness of God, is distinct from his will and benevolence, inasmuch as that does not all which it can, but all which this appointeth: According to the holy Psalmist, As for our God, he is in heaven; he has done whatsoever pleased him (Psalm 115:3). For it is certain had he pleased, he might have made six thousand worlds as easily as he made this, but he willed not. We must, furthermore, consider the divine all-powerfulness (i.e. omnipotence) as joined with the highest and utmost perfections, most clearly void of all, even the least, weakness or imperfection; as for instance, God cannot be evil; he cannot sin, he cannot lie nor deny himself (cf. 2 Timothy 2:13; Hebrews 6:18), for these are mere imperfections: And God cannot be Almighty if he could be wicked, or defiled with sin, or deny himself; these being the marks or fruits of imperfections. But God is Almighty by his will and most perfect goodness, as the Prophet celebrates him, Who is so great a God as our God? You are the God that does wonders, and have declared your power among the people (Psalm 77:13-14).

To conclude, God is named Almighty because all things are in his power and command, and because without any labor or difficulty he created the universe by merely and only willing that it should be so.

15. Why is God said to be in such or such a place, since he is boundless, and cannot be confined in any place, being present at all times in all?

Although the immaterial and incorporeal Divinity cannot be circumscribed in heaven, or Zion, or any other place, God not being in place, but being place unto himself, yet we are wont to say, God dwells there wheresoever he has been pleased more particularly: and the oftenest to manifest his goodness, and show forth his marvellous works, says St. John of Damascus:

As in heaven, where be the Angels who perform his commands, and with never-ceasing praises glorify his majesty; On earth, for there incarnate he dwells amongst men: In the holy Church, for there, after a peculiar manner, is his grace bestowed on the faithful, and his glory declared. And in like manner is every place said to be his, where is grace in any manner revealed. (On the Orthodox Faith, Book 1, Chapter 13)

16. Whereas we affirm that it is the attribute of God only to know all things, hidden and manifest: How is it that Angels, and among men the Prophets, have also known those things?

God in himself knows the most hidden and secret things, and the most concealed thoughts of both Angels and men; not only at the time when they are thought, but even before the worlds were made, according to the Scriptures:

The eyes of the Lord are ten thousand times brighter than the sun, beholding all the ways of men, and considering the most secret parts. (Sirach 23:19)

And again:

The Lord knows all that may be known, and he beholds the signs of the world. He declares the things that are past and to come, and reveals the steps of hidden things. (Sirach 42:18-19)

And St. John, I am he who searches the reins and hearts, and I will give unto every one of you according to your works (Revelation 2:23).

But when at any time Angels or men have known what was to come, it has always been from divine revelation, according to the Scripture, He revealed the deep and secret things (Daniel 2:22). So Elisha knew what his servant Gehazi had privily received on the way from Naaman (2 Kings 5:20-27). And the Apostle Peter knew what had been done by Ananias and Sapphira (Acts 5:1-11). And so in like manner all the Prophets foreknew the future.

17. Be there any more attributes of God?

The divine attributes are, indeed, numberless: but those which, as necessary to salvation, we have recited, are sufficient to teach us how we ought to think of God. Do thou, therefore, more particularly believe, with a firm and immovable faith, that God is One in three Persons, Almighty (omnipotent), All-present (omnipresent), All-knowing (omniscient), Unchangeable (immutable), and Eternal.

Of God as the Creator.

18. In this Article the word Creator is used: Is, then, everything made or created by God?

God is, doubtless, the Maker of all things, visible and invisible: Who first from nothing (ex nihilo) made the hosts of heaven only by a thought; that they might be the chief resounders of his praise, and that intellectual world, who, according to the grace bestowed on them, see the glory of God, and in perfect obedience forever do his will.

After which he created this visible and material world out of nothing (ex nihilo); and, lastly, he made man, compounded by an immaterial, rational soul, and a material body: That man, thus made, might be a manifestation that the same God was the Author and Maker of both worlds, from whence man is not unaptly called a microcosm, or little cosmos (κόσμος μικρός), as being in himself a comprehensive paradigm (παράδειγμα ὃλου) of the great cosmos (μεγάλου κόσμου).

On Angels.

19. As God created the Angels first, I would also like to know what we are to think concerning them.

The Angels are spirits, whom God, out of nothing (ex nihilo), has produced into being, that they might serve him, and sing praise unto him: And, in this world, might assist men, and lead them into his Kingdom. To these is committed the care and guardianship of cities, kingdoms, and countries, monasteries, churches, and both ecclesiastical and secular men, as is evident from the Acts of the Apostles, in which there is an example:

The Angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors, and brought them forth and said, “Go, stand, and speak in the Temple to the people all the words of this life.” (Acts 5:19-20)

And again:

And behold the Angel of the Lord came upon him... and said unto him, “Gird yourself, and bind on your sandals, cast your garment around you, and follow me.” (Acts 12:7-8)

And a little after:

When Peter was come to himself, he said, “Now I know of a surety that the Lord has sent his Angel, and has delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews.” (Acts 12:11)

In like manner our Savior teaches us, that infants are in their care, saying, I say unto you, that, in heaven, their Angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven (Matthew 18:10). Also, they present our prayers and free-will offerings, and other good works, before the divine majesty. Not that God himself does not observe our free-will offerings, or hear our prayer, but because they intercede for us. And under the first dispensation, before the Law of Moses was delivered, the Angels were the teachers of the Law, and will of God, unto our Forefathers, and led them in the way of salvation (cf. St. Dionysius the Areopagite, Celestial Hierarchy, Chapter 4). And, after the delivery of the Law they instructed men, and showed them the Good, as appears at large in the holy Scriptures, which relates both the appearance of Angels unto the Prophets, and their showing them what was to come. Thus the Angel warned Joseph to escape the bloody purpose of Herod:

The Angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph, saying, “Arise, and take the young child, and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and be there until I bring word. For Herod will seek the young child to destroy him.” (Matthew 2:13)

And again, when the same Joseph feared to take to himself the blessed Virgin, the Angel of the Lord directed him (Matthew 1:20). By the ministration of Angels also the works of God are declared, as when Christ was born at Bethlehem, they told it to the shepherds (Luke 2:8-20). Angels also, by the command of God, attend upon good men, and deliver us from many dangers, driving away the Enemy of our souls, who does always most cruelly persecute us, whenever the divine permission suffers him. And it is sufficiently evident that this our celestial genius (i.e. guardian angel) watches over us, and guards us, from the Scripture which says concerning him that trusted in God alone, He shall give his Angels charge over you, to keep you in all your ways (Psalm 91:11).

20. Into how many Orders are the Angels distributed?

According to the Teaching of St. Dionysius, they are distinguished into nine Choirs, which are again distributed into three Orders (τάξεις; see The Celestial Hierarchy, Chapters 6-9).[103]

The first Order is of those who are nearest to God, as the Seraphim, Cherubim, and Thrones.

In the second the Dominions, Powers, and Authorities.

In the third the Principalities, Archangels, Angels, and those all disposed in such Order, that all the lower Ranks are enlightened, and receive the divine blessings from the higher.

These Angels always continue in the love of God, having received this grace that they should be incapable of falling, because they listened not unto Lucifer, when he tempted them to rebel against God, through whose grace only it is that they are thus established, and not through their own strength.

And thus far we think it sufficient to treat in the small compass of this Confession, concerning the knowledge of Angels: Wherefore, since it is well enough known that the Angels do help us with their guardianship, and also assist us with their intercession, let us therefore, as we ought, entreat them, that they may pray to God for us. More especially the Angel who is appointed our guardian and guide.

21. What are we to think concerning evil Angels?

They are all created good by God; for whatsoever God made, it was good; but, through their own will, they became evil, as our Lord testifies of the Chief of the Devils:

He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks of his own; for he is a liar, and the Father of it. (John 8:44).

These are the authors and chiefs of all impiety, and continual blasphemers of the Divine Majesty. These are the deceivers of mankind, both they and their Instruments, according to the Scripture, Be sober, be vigilant, because your Adversary, the Devil, as a roaring lion walks about, seeking whom he may devour (1 Peter 5:8).

Nevertheless, be it known that the Devil cannot exercise any power, or offer any violence unto any man, or any thing, unless they are so permitted of God, as the Scripture witnesseth, The devils besought him, saying, “If you cast us out, suffer us to go away into the herd of swine”; and he said unto them, “Go” (Matthew 8:31-32). And let everyone be assured, that it is least of all in their power to compel man to sin; they can only tempt, and persuade us, by their instigation and deceit, to do evil and go astray: For man is endowed with a free will, which God himself will not constrain, nor lay under any necessity.

But forasmuch as the Devils are condemned unto everlasting punishment and torments, they can never become partakers of the divine mercy or grace; as it is said, Depart from me, you cursed, unto everlasting fire, prepared for the Devil and his Angels (Matthew 25:41).

22. What are we to believe concerning other created things?

As follows: That God, by his word and command, has made all things out of nothing (ex nihilo); and, lastly, created man, and appointed him the heir and lord of all things under heaven, saying:

Let us make man in our image, and after our likeness; and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth. (Genesis 1:26)

And the sacred Poet:

You make him to have dominion of the works of your hands; and you have put all things in subjection under his feet; all sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field, the fowls of the air, and the fishes of the sea, and whatsoever walks through the paths of the seas. (Psalm 8:6-8)

And a little before, You made him a little lower than the Angels, you have crowned him with glory and honor (Psalm 8:5).

But because he disobeyed the command of God in paradise, and took and ate of the forbidden fruit, therefore being at once deprived of all the honors and favors with which he had been adorned, whilst he held his integrity, he was driven out of the mansion, and became such as the Prophet David has described him, man that is in honor, and understands not, is like the beasts that perish, and is become like unto them (Psalm 49:20). And to the same purpose, Dust you are, and unto dust shall you return (Genesis 3:19).

On the Creation and Fall of Man.[104]

23. What was the state of innocence of man, or purity and freedom from sin?

The state of innocence and integrity was twofold, according to St. Basil (Homily 12: On the Beginning of Proverbs).

The first is a voluntary departure from sin: as when a man, of his own deliberate purpose, forsakes what he knows to be sin.

The other is simply not knowing sin: as when a person, either by reason of tender age, or any other cause, is without knowing or committing evil.

Of this last kind was the innocence of Adam before the Fall, joined with a most complete and perfect rectitude, and innate justice both of will and understanding. So that in his understanding all knowledge was included; and, in his will, all virtue and honesty.

For inasmuch as Adam had a perfect knowledge of God, therefore in knowing of God, he knew all other things through God, as appeared in that, when all the creatures came to Adam to be named: For he gave them all names expressive of the several natures and dispositions, which he knew not from any experience, but from that knowledge of things which, by the blessing of God, he had.

And as for his will, it was in all things governed by his reason; yet so as to retain a perfect freedom; and that it is manifestly in the power of man to sin, or not to sin, is evident from holy Scripture:

Say not: “It is through the Lord that I fell away.” For you ought not do the things which he hates. Say not: “He has caused me to err.” For he has no need of the sinful man. The Lord hates all abomination; and they that fear God love it not. He himself made man from the beginning, and left him in the hand of his counsel. If you will, you shall keep the commandments and faith by doing what pleases him. He has set fire and water before you; stretch forth your hand unto whither you will. Before man is life and death, and whichsoever he likes, it shall be given him. (Sirach 15:11-17)

And a little after, He has commanded no man to do wickedly; neither has he given any man licence to sin (Sirach 15:20).

In such a state of innocence and impeccability, like the Angels, was man: But when, by transgressing the commandments, he had sinned, he then came into a state of sin; and, being expelled from paradise, he became subject to death, according to that Scripture, The wages of sin is death (Romans 6:28); and presently losing the perfection of his reason and understanding, his will deviates (ἐκκλίνω) to evil rather than good.

Thus the state of innocence and integrity, by man tasting of evil, became a state of sin (κατάστασιν ἁμαρτίας); and man, who before was perfect, debased so low that now he may well cry out with David, I am a worm, and no man (Psalm 22:6).

24. Whether all men are liable for the sin of Adam?

As all mankind, during the state of innocence, was in Adam; so in him all men, falling from what he fell, remained in a state of sin (κατάστασιν ἁμαρτίας).

Wherefore mankind is become, not only subject unto sin, but also, on account of sin, unto punishment; which, according to the sentence pronounced of God, was, In the day that you eat of the Tree, you shall surely die (Genesis 2:17). And to this the Apostle alludes, Wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for all have sinned (Romans 5:12).

So that we are conceived in our mother’s womb, and born in this sin, according to the holy Psalmist, Behold, I was shaped in wickedness, and in sin has my mother conceived me (Psalm 51:5).

This is called Ancestral Sin (from the Greek: προπατορικό, propatoriko; Latin: Avitum):[105]

First, because that, before this, mankind was free from all sin; although the Devil was then corrupt, and fallen, by whose temptation this Ancestral Sin sprang (εβλάστησε) up in man; and Adam becoming subjected (υποκείμενος), we all likewise, who descend from him, also fall (καταβαίνομεν).

Secondly, because mankind is seized (συλλαμβάνεται) in sin.[106]

25. But since God foreknew that Adam would fall, wherefore, I pray, did he create him liable to it?

God fully foreknew both the Fall of Adam, and the malice of Lucifer, before he created either, and the most minute thoughts and actions that either of them would think or act; nevertheless the divine Goodness would not suffer itself to be overcome by the wickedness of man, or the Devil, but, that it might be the more manifest, God created the Devil a good Angel, who, of his own free will and choice, became evil: as afterwards man did by his temptation (cf. St. John of Damascus, On the Orthodox Faith, Book 2, Chapter 27; also his Dialogue Against the Manichees).[107]

Now, God so dealt with mankind, that, in his disobedience, God's goodness might shine with more glorious brightness, by sending his only Son into this world, who might take flesh of a most unspotted Virgin, by the operation (συνεργίαν) of the Holy Spirit and redeem lost man; and receive him into his Kingdom, adorned with greater glory than he had before in paradise, to the eternal confusion of the Devil. Therefore neither ought the sin of man hinder, that God should not create him.

26. Since, then, God knew all things before they were, did he not predestine them to be good or evil, in such a way that they could not be otherwise than they are?

God certainly foreknew all things before they were in being; but he only predestined good, for it were contrary to the divine Goodness to predestine evil (St. John of Damascus, On the Orthodox Faith, Book 2, Chapter 30).

For evil is no other than sin; for, except sin, which is the transgressing of the divine will and Law, properly speaking, there is no such thing as evil in the world: For those which God is pleased to inflict on us for our sins, as pestilence, war, sickness, and such like, they are said to be evil with regard to us, because they afflict us with pain and sorrow, to which we are averse: But, with regard, to God, they are not evil, but rather good, as being the instruments of his correction, whereby he converts us to righteousness (St. Basil the Great, Homily Explaining that God Is Not the Cause of Evil). Therefore when the Scripture says, Shall there be evil in a city, and the Lord has not done it? (Amos 3:6) there by the word evil is to be understood the just judgment of God.

In fine, God, in his wisdom and justice, predetermines only those things which are entirely out of our power, with regard to their being or not being; and in those good things which are in our power to be done, he foreknows, but so that his will hinders not ours, which no way controls the nature of free-will.

27. What is free-will?

Man’s free-will is an absolute, free, and voluntary choice to do good or evil, arising from reason or the rational soul.

For it is necessary that a being endued with reason, should have a nature joined with a power over his own will, which, as reason prompted, he should exercise freely.

Now reason, whilst man remained in the State of Innocence (that is, before his Fall) was perfect and uncorrupt; and by his Fall, became corrupt; but his will (although with regard to the desire of good and evil, it remained unaltered), yet, in some things, it became more inclined to the evil, and in others to the good: As says St. Basil the Great, Every man may by his will and choice become either a good seed or a bad (Commentary on Isaiah, Chapter 14); according to the Apostle, In Jesus Christ I have begotten you through the Gospel (1 Corinthians 4:15).

Also St. John, As many as received him, to them he gave power to become the sons of God (John 1:12). Wherein the holy teacher teaches us that notwithstanding the will of man is damaged (or harmed, from the Greek: ἐβλάβη; Latin: misere labefactata fuerit, or: weakened miserably) by Ancestral Sin (Greek: προπατορικόν ἁμάμαρτημα; Latin: peccato originis); yet it is the choice of every one whether he will become righteous, and the child of God; or wicked, and the child of the Devil. This, I say, is in every one’s power, but with the divine grace assisting (συμβοηθός) him to do good, and withdrawing him from evil; yet, nevertheless, so as not to interfere with his free will.

28. Seeing that man is born in sin, is the soul, as well as the body, from the seed of Adam?

The human body descends from Adam, but the soul comes from God: According to the Scripture, The Lord who stretches out the heavens, and lays the foundation of the earth, and forms the spirit of man within him (Zechariah 12:1). And again, Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return to God who gave it (Ecclesiastes 12:7). For if the soul were of human seed, doubtless it would die with the body, and, with that, return to dust; but we are taught otherwise in the holy Scriptures, where Christ says to the thief on the cross, Verily I say unto you, This day you will be with me in Paradise (Luke 23:43). The body of the thief remained on the cross, but the soul, as being an immortal spirit, entered with Christ into Paradise: Whereas, if it had been of human extract, it must have died with the body on the cross. And, indeed, how can we otherwise understand these words of our Lord?

Have you not read that which was spoken to you by God, saying, “I am, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob”? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. (Matthew 22:31)

Which words cannot be applied but to the soul, for the bodies of those Fathers had been long ago consumed to dust; they must, therefore, be meant of the soul, which, as it lives forever, so it forever stands in the presence of God. Now, if the soul were of the same stock with the body, without doubt it must run the same fate with it, and together with it also perish. But the soul is immitted into the body by God, when he has fitted and prepared it for its reception, and is diffused throughout all its parts, as fire pervades all parts of the glowing iron. But chiefly it resides in the head and heart.

29. Since God is the Creator of all things, should he not also provide for all things?

He does provide entirely for all things: For from the smallest to the greatest, he knows them all, and every individual which he has made he particularly takes care of. For so says our blessed Savior:

Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? and not one of them shall fall on the ground apart from your Father. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. (Matthew 10:29-30)

The same Providence David celebrates in the Old Testament:

The eyes of all wait upon you, and you give them their food in due season. You open your hand, and satisfy the desire of every living thing. (Psalm 145:15-16)

30. Are the words Foreknowledge, Predestination, and Providence, of the same signification in Divinity?

Foreknowledge, Predestination, and Providence have different energy (ἐνεργείαις) in Divinity.

Providence respects things which are already created, but Foreknowledge and Predestination were in God before any thing was created, but in a manner distinct from each other; Foreknowledge being the bare, simple knowing of a future thing, without any determinate specification of it: that is, not necessarily determining that this or that should be.

But Predestination, joined with Foreknowledge, is a determining of the species, or what a thing must be absolutely; only, always determining good, and not evil.

For if Predestination were to appoint evil, it would be contrary to the essential goodness of God: Therefore, in like manner, as we first conceive a thing, and then appoint concerning it, so may we speak with regard to God: First in order is his Foreknowledge; then his Predestination; and lastly (things being brought into actual being) his Providence. As the Apostle plainly teaches:

For whom he foreknew, he also predestined... And whom he predestined, these he also called; and whom he called, these he also justified; and whom he justified, these he also glorified. (Romans 8:29-30)

But this is only to be understood of man, for other created beings (except the Angels, who are settled in a state of certainty and safety) are not the objects of the divine Predestination; For, as they have no free will, so they are without imputation whatever they do, being done by the impulse of natural instinct; wherefore they are neither chastised with punishment of any kind, nor crowned with the rewards of glory and praise.

31. What does this Article further teach, concerning God and his creation?

Whatever your mind can possibly imagine good, that consider as appertaining to God, the supreme Good, as its Origin and Source; and whatever you can figure to yourself of evil, consider as the most opposite and remote from God: Not so much as being distant in place, as being different in its very essence.

Of created things, think thus: That they are good, as being produced by an infinitely good Maker; only with this difference, that rational beings, who are endued with understanding and free will, are bad when they depart from God. Not that they were so created, but for that they became so by acting contrary to their reason.

Of irrational beings, that as they are without free will, they are in their nature good.

c2X7

The Second Article: Of Christology.

32. What is the Second Article of the Faith?

And in one Lord Jesus Christ; the Son of God; the Only-begotten; Begotten of the Father before all ages; Light of Light; true God of true God; begotten, not made; of one essence with the Father; by whom all things were made.

33. What does this Article of the Creed teach us?

Chiefly two things.

First, That the Son of God, Jesus Christ, is God eternal, of the same proper nature with his Father, and equal to him in glory and honor: as he says of himself, And now, Father, glorify me together with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before the world was (John 17:5).

Secondly, That Jesus Christ is the Creator, not only of the things which are made, but also of time itself, in which all things are made, by whom also he has made the Ages (Hebrews 1:2). But concerning permanent beings, the Evangelist says, The world was made by him, and the world knew him not (John 1:10).

34. What do the words Jesus Christ mean, which we meet with in this Article?

Jesus signifies Savior, as it is interpreted by the Archangel, who said unto Joseph, She shall bring forth a Son, and you shall call his Name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins (Matthew 1:21). Wherefore this Name cannot properly be given unto anyone, save only unto our Lord and Savior, who has set free all mankind from the bondage of the Devil.

Christ signifies Anointed: for that, in the Old Law, those who were anointed were called Christs: namely, Priests, Kings, and Prophets, into which three Offices Christ was anointed; not after the common manner of others, but after a superior manner, above all others: As the holy Psalmist says:

You have loved righteousness and hated iniquity; wherefore God, even your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness, above your fellows (Psalm 45:7).

Wherein is meant, being anointed with the Holy Spirit, he was anointed according to the Prophet Isaiah: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because the Lord has Anointed me, to preach good Tidings unto the Meek (Isaiah 61:1). Which words Christ applies to himself, Today is this Scripture fulfilled in your hearing (Luke 4:21). Christ, indeed, was, with a three-fold excellency, and extraordinary majesty, exalted above his fellows.

Christ in His Three Offices.

First, as Priest after the Order of Melchizedek, according to the Apostle, Called of God an High Priest, after the Order of Melchizedek (Hebrews 5:10). And again, he calls Christ a Priest, because he offered himself to God and the Father, saying, Who through the eternal Spirit, offered himself without spot to God (Hebrews 9:14; cf. 9:11). And again, So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many (Hebrews 9:28).

Secondly, The next excellency and majesty of Christ, in his Kingly Office, as the Archangel Gabriel declared when he brought the heavenly Annunciation to the most pure Virgin, saying:

The Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign over the House of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. (Luke 1:32-33)

The Wise Men, also, when they brought their offerings, testified concerning his Kingdom, saying, Where is he that is born King of the Jews? (Matthew 2:2) And the title given him at his Death confirms this, when it was written, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews (John 19:19).

Thirdly, Concerning his third Office, as Prophet, Moses long before had prophesied, by inspiration, saying, I will raise them up a Prophet from among their brethren, like unto you (Deuteronomy 18:18). This greatness of our Lord appears sufficiently from the sanctity of the doctrine which he taught; from whence, also, his Divinity is sufficiently manifest, and in which we are taught everything necessary to salvation. As he himself said, I have made your Name known unto them (John 17:26). And a few verses earlier:

For I have given unto them the words which you gave me, and they have received them, and have known surely that I come out from you, and they have believed that you sent me. (John 17:8)

But Christ more especially exercised this third Office of Prophet when he foretold what would come to pass; which he did, not by inspiration as other Prophets, but as God himself, of his own knowledge, as being God and man.

35. Why is the Son of God called Only-begotten?

That the Son of God is Only-begotten is manifest from the Scripture, We have seen his glory, the glory as of the only-begotten of the Father (John 1:14). And again, The only-begotten Son which is in the bosom of the Father (John 1:18). He is called Only-begotten, because he only is the Son of God by nature: Others, who are sometimes called the sons of God, are so, not by nature but by grace, or adoption, as the faithful and elect. Which grace of adoption, to become the sons of God, is granted them through Jesus Christ, according to the Scripture, As many as received him, to them gave the power to become the sons of God (John 1:12).

36. What do the words Light of Light mean?

For the better understanding of this, you are to know that there are two kinds of light, namely, created and Uncreated. Of the created light Scripture says:

God said, “Let there be light,” and there was light; and God saw the light that it was good, and God divided the light from the darkness. (Genesis 1:3)

But touching on the Uncreated Light, the Prophet Isaiah says:

The sun shall no more be your light by day, neither for brightness shall the moon give light unto you; but the Lord shall be an everlasting Light, and your God your glory. Your Sun shall no more go down, neither shall your Moon withdraw itself; for the Lord shall be your everlasting Light. (Isaiah 60:19-20)

And it is this Uncreated Light which is intended in this place, as more plainly appears from the words which immediately follow, namely, true God of true God; begotten, not made.

Created Light you are to consider as being made out of nothing (ex nihilo); but the Begotten Light, or the Son, as springing from the essence of the Father (οὐσίαν τοῡ Πατρός). As says the Apostle:

Who, being the brightness of his glory, and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high. (Hebrews 1:3)

After the same manner he speaks of himself, I am the Light of the world; he that follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the Light of Life (John 8:12).

Furthermore, it is said Light of Light, because he has in himself the whole essence of the Father; as when one light is kindled by another, it has in it all the nature of that other light.

Lastly, the words, by whom all things were made, are thus to be understood: As the Son is equal (ὁμοίως) in the same essence (ὁμοούσιος) with God the Father, so he is equally (ὁμοίως) Creator; and not interpreting by whom as by a servant or instrument, but by nature (ὡς φησὶν), for as the Scripture teaches, He was in the world, and the world was made through(διά) him (John 1:10); that is, by(ἐκ) him.

c2YJ

The Third Article: Of the Incarnation.

37. What is the Third Article of the Creed?

Who for us men, and for our salvation, came down from heaven, and was incarnate of the Holy Spirit and the Virgin Mary, and became man.

38. What does this Article of the Creed teach?

We are hereby taught four things:

First, That the Son of God came down from heaven into the womb of the most pure Virgin Mary, to save mankind, as he before had promised. Wherefore he thus speaks concerning himself, No man has ascended up to heaven but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of Man (John 3:13).

Now, he did not come down from heaven by change of place; for, as being very God, he fills all places, and is present in all; but so it seemed good unto his majesty, to humble himself by taking upon himself the human nature.

Secondly, This Article teaches us that our Lord Jesus Christ did verily and indeed take upon himself a real humanity, and not in appearance only. For in that moment wherein the blessed Virgin answered the Angel, and said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord, be it unto me according to your word (Luke 1:38), his body was formed in the Virgin’s womb, and he became a perfect man in every particular, and having a rational soul conjoined with his divinity, being perfect God and perfect man, in one and the same Person (cf. St. John of Damascus, On the Orthodox Faith, Book 3, Chapter 2). And the most pure Virgin was saluted, and acknowledged to be the Theotokos, as Elizabeth said unto her, And whence is this to me, that the Mother of my Lord should come to me? (Luke 1:43)

Furthermore, it behoves us to know that the Divinity was not changed into the humanity, neither was the humanity lost in the Divinity, but each nature remained complete with all its properties, only joined in one Person (hypostasis; Greek: εἰς μίαν ὑπόστασιν; Latin: in persona una); sin only, which appertained to the human nature, being excepted.

On Mariology.

39. What is the third thing taught in this Article?

Thirdly, we are hereby taught that the Incarnation of Christ was by the co-operation of the Holy Spirit (συνεργίαν τοῡ ἁγίου Πνεύματος); so that as the blessed Virgin was a virgin before his conception, so also in conceiving, after she had conceived, and even when she brought forth, she remained a Virgin. For Christ came forth of his Mother’s womb in such a manner as to leave unviolated her virginity and left unbroken that seal, that she might remain a Virgin forever.

40. What is the fourth thing contained in this Article?

Fourthly, Concerning the most pure Virgin, the Theotokos (God-bearer), Mary, whom all the Orthodox - as it is their duty - ought to praise and reverence as the Mother of our Lord Jesus Christ, or rather as the Theotokos and Mother of God, seeing she was thought worthy, by God, to fulfill so great a mystery. For which reason the Church has composed a salutation to her, partly with the words of the Archangel and holy Elizabeth, and partly with a form of her own:

O Virgin Theotokos, rejoice, Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the Fruit of thy womb, for thou hast borne the Savior of our souls!

41. What are we to think concerning this salutation?

First, You must believe that this salutation was originally appointed by God himself: though it was taught unto men by the Archangel Gabriel, who has not dared to have used it, unless he had been so commanded by God.

Secondly, The words of the holy Elizabeth were also inspired by the Holy Spirit, as is evident from the Evangelist's account:

Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit, and she spoke out with a loud voice, and said, “Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the Fruit of thy womb.” (Luke 1:41-42)

Also the words which the Church has added are of the Holy Spirit.

And the Church, by the authority with which she is vested, does command us, that when we pray, we should frequently honor and praise the blessed Virgin with this salutation.

42. What is taught us in this salutation?

In this salutation is contained a commemoration, that the Son of God became man, and of the benefits which we receive thereby: And also we learn thereby, that when the eternal Word of God, who is without beginning, came down from heaven he brought not flesh with him, but received it in the womb of the most holy Virgin, formed of her purest blood, by the co-operation of the Holy Spirit (τοῡ ἁγίου συνεργοῦντος); so that he was born of her as of his proper mother.

And this we must most truly and firmly believe; for the Church does condemn, as heretics, all such as hold that the Savior came down from heaven already clothed with flesh, as if he passed through the holy Virgin as through a channel. (St. John of Damascus, On the Orthodox Faith, Book 3, Chapter 12; cf. St. Cyril of Jerusalem, Twelfth Catechetical Lecture)

We are, furthermore, taught therein to call the blessed Virgin the Theotokos (God-bearer; Latin: Deipara), according to the human nature of Christ; and that Christ, who was born of her, was perfect God, and perfect man.

Moreover, this salutation, in calling the Virgin full of grace, teaches us, that as she is the Mother of God (μήτηρ Θεοῦ), she is made more abundantly a partaker of the divine grace than any created being: Wherefore the Church rightly extolls her above the Cherubim and the Seraphim. For she, far above all the choirs of Angels, is at the right hand of her Son, with all honor and glory, according to David, At your right hand stood the Queen... arrayed in a vesture of inwoven gold, adorned in varied colors (Psalm 45:9, 13-14).

Every orthodox Christian ought to repeat this salutation with the utmost reverence, and implore the intercession of the Virgin; for the prayer of the Mother avails much with the Son.

And whosoever would be a devout honorer of the Virgin, let him - always standing, not sitting - repeat the Akathist Hymn, and other supplicatory canons (Greek: paraklesis; Slavonic: molieben) and hymns, which the Church has composed in honor of the Mother of God.

c2ZP

The Fourth Article: Of the Passion of Christ.

43. What is the Fourth Article of Creed?[108]

And he was crucified for us under Pontius Pilate, suffered, and was buried.

44. What is taught in the Fourth Article of the Creed?

Chiefly six things.

First, That the Word verily, and indeed, suffered on the Cross for our sakes, and truly and really died, according to that same humanity which he received from the Virgin Mary: As is manifest from the holy Book:

And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, “Father, into your hands I commit my spirit”; and having said this he gave up the spirit. (Luke 23:46)

And that he truly poured out his precious Blood for us, wherewith he redeemed us, as the Apostle bears witness:

Who has predestined us unto the adoption of children, by Jesus Christ... in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. (Ephesians 1:5, 7)

45. What is the second thing contained in this Article?

That Christ suffered the punishment of us sinners, having no sin in himself: as the Apostle St. Peter testifies:

Forasmuch as you know you were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from the futile ways taught you by your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. (1 Peter 1:18-19)

In like manner does John the Baptist bear witness, that Jesus, who was perfectly innocent, and free from any stain of sin, suffered for our sins; For thus says he, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world (John 1:29).

And this was voluntarily, and of his own free will, as he himself says, I have power to lay down my life, and I have power to take it up again (John 10:18).

46. What is the third thing taught?

That Christ suffered on the Cross, according to his human nature, not according to his Divinity. For his divine nature suffered not, was not fastened to the Cross, did not give its face to be spit upon, nor to the smiters: the divine nature died not. And that Christ was crucified only in the flesh the apostle clearly teaches, saying:

Now has he reconciled in the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy, and blameless, and above reproach before him. (Colossians 1:22)

Nevertheless his divine nature, having taken to it the humanity, was never again separated from it. Not in the time of his passion and death upon the Cross; not even in death; although his soul was separated from his body, yet did not his divinity ever depart from his body or his soul. So that in death itself Christ still continued one and the same person (cf. St. John of Damascus, On the Orthodox Faith, Book 3, Chapter 27).

47. What is the fourth part contained in this Article?

That the death of Christ was superabundantly more excellent, and of far greater benefits, than could be the death of all other men: For these especial reasons.

First, Because of the heavy burden of our sins, as says the Prophet Isaiah:

He has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities. (Isaiah 53:4-5)

Also the Prophet Jeremiah, speaking in the person of Christ:

Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? Behold and see if there is any sorrow like my sorrow, which has been brought on me, which the Lord has inflicted in the day of His fierce anger. (Lamentations 1:12)

Secondly, For that on the Cross he fulfilled his priestly office, offering himself to God and the Father, for the redemption of mankind: as the Apostle speaks concerning him, Who gave himself a ransom for all (1 Timothy 2:6). And again, Christ loved us, and has given himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God, for a sweet-smelling aroma (Ephesians 5:2). Also in another place, While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us (Romans 5:8).

Thirdly, Because on the Cross he completed the reconciliation which he had undertaken between God and man; as the aforementioned Apostle declared:

By him to reconcile all things unto himself, having made peace through the blood of his Cross... Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us; which was contrary to us; and took it out of the way, nailing it to the Cross. (Colossians 1:20; 2:14)

48. What is the fifth thing contained in this Article?

Concerning the burial of our Lord Jesus Christ, as he was really and truly fastened to the Cross, and underwent the most grievous torments, so was he verily and indeed dead, and buried in an honorable place; which came to pass for this end, that from henceforth none should doubt of the real Resurrection of Christ from the dead.

For had he been buried in an obscure by-place, and, as we say, in a corner, it would have given good occasion to the Jews to have opposed our Lord with their slanders: Wherefore, that the glorious Resurrection of Christ might be more unquestionable and glorious, the Jews, as if they had been directed by providence, go to Pilate, and say unto him:

“Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day”: and Pilate said unto them, “You have a watch; go your way, make it as sure as you can.” So they went and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting a watch. (Matthew 27:64-66)

This watch of the Jews afforded a most certain and manifest proof of Christ's Resurrection; being struck with great dread at the time it was come to pass, as the Scripture informs us:

And behold there was a great earthquake, for an Angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled lack the stone from the door, and sat upon it... and for fear of him the guards did shake and became as dead men. (Matthew 28:2, 4)

Who afterwards, going into the City, told the chief Priests all that had happened (Matthew 28:11). The guards, being as it were constrained to testify what they had witnessed, reported what the women were told by the Angel:

I know that you seek Jesus that was crucified. He is not here, for he is risen, as he said; come and see the place where the Lord lay, and go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the Dead. (Matthew 28:5-7)

For this cause, therefore, it was that the sepulchre of our Lord should be in a place of honor, that it might be clear to all that his disciples did not steal him away and bury him in an unknown obscure place, as the perverse Jews gave out, having corrupted the guards with large amounts of money. But this empty suspicion was fully confuted by the tomb itself, wherein our Lord had been buried, and by the sealing of the stone, and by the guard which the Jews had set. Besides, Joseph and Nicodemus were men of great honor and account in their nation.

Lastly, The precious linen wherein the dead body of our Lord had been wrapped, and the napkin which was about his head, remained folded up in the sepulchre after he was arisen; all which sufficiently proved that his body had not been secretly conveyed away by the disciples, but was indeed returned to life.

To this it deserves to be added that according to the holy prophecies it was of necessity that our Lord's sepulchre should be honorable, as it is, and has been: for so says the Prophet Isaiah, And his resting place shall be glorious (Isaiah 11:10). Now, whosoever visits this sepulchre, in faith and love of Christ, he shall obtain pardon of many sins; coming through that, in his mind, unto Christ himself.

49. From what has been said, I now desire to know in what place the soul of Christ remained after its departure from his body, and before his Resurrection.

The soul of Christ, although separated from his body, yet remained joined to his divinity and together with it went down to Hades: although no mention is made thereof in this Article, yet we are sufficiently certified that it is so by many hymns of the Church on this subject, which teach that Christ, together with his soul and his divinity, descended into Hades. As this troparion, or hymn of the Church, particularly sets forth:

In the grave bodily,

but in Hades with thy soul as God;

In Paradise with the thief,

And on the throne with the Father and the Spirit

Wast thou who fillest all things,

O Christ the Inexpressible.[109]

And having delivered from thence the souls of the holy Fathers, he led them into Paradise, together with the thief who had believed on him when he was crucified.

On the Sign of the Cross.

50. What is the sixth thing contained in this Article?

This Article, by making mention of the Cross on which Christ died and wrought the great work of our salvation, prompts us to comment something concerning it: Of which the Apostle St. Paul thus speaks:

God forbid that I should glory, except in the Cross of our Lord Jesus Christ: whereby the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. (Galatians 6:14)

And again, The preaching of the Cross is to them that perish foolishness; but unto us which are saved it is the power of God (1 Corinthians 1:18).

For many and great reasons, therefore, the Cross is venerable unto us, as the peculiar sign of Christ, on which a wonderful power is bestowed of putting evil spirits to flight: Forasmuch as it was anointed with the blood of the Son of God, who breathed out his soul thereon. To this purpose hear St. Cyril, Bishop of Jerusalem:

When we sign ourselves with the venerable sign of the Cross, the Devil then being mindful that Christ was nailed to the Cross for our salvation, and for the destruction of his hellish power, can no longer be present nor withstand the power of the Cross; but he flees from us and ceases to tempt us, more especially as we usually call upon the Name of our savior Christ at the same time. (St. Cyril of Jerusalem, Catechetical Lecture 13.36)[110]

Wherefore it is necessary that we should frequently sign ourselves with this holy sign; forasmuch as we perceive ourselves too commonly beset with the temptations of the Devil, which we cannot otherwise drive away than by the sign of the life-giving Cross, and seriously calling upon the Name of Jesus Christ. And by this, we not only drive away the insults of the spirits of darkness from ourselves, but also from whatever belongs to us; from our meat and our drink, from our utensils, and everything appertaining to us. Wherefore St. Cyril, in the place before mentioned, says further:

Bless thyself with the venerable sign of the Cross, when you eat and when you drink; when you stand and when you sit; when you speak and when you walk. Begin not any business or employment without first making this reverend sign; in your house or on the way, in the day or in the night, and in all places. (St. Cyril of Jerusalem, Catechetical Lecture 13.36)

51. After what manner ought we to form the sign of the venerable and life-giving Cross?

After this manner: First, with your thumb and two fingers (held together, and the fourth and fifth fingers pressing down on the palm), touch your forehead, saying, In the Name of the Father; Then in the same manner touch your chest (Greek: θώρακα, thoraka), saying, and of the Son; then touch your right shoulder, saying, and of the Holy Spirit; And, lastly, complete the sign of the Cross, by touching your left shoulder, saying, Amen.[111]

You may, also, when you Cross yourself, say thus, Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner. Amen.[112]

The Fifth Article: Of the Resurrection of Christ.

52. What is the Fifth Article of the Faith?

Who arose the third day from the dead, according to the Scriptures.

53. What are we taught by this Article of the Faith?

Two things.

First, That our Lord, Jesus Christ, returned to life by the power of his divinity, that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again (Luke 24:27).

And, Secondly, That he arose in that same individual body wherewith he was born, and died (John 20:27).

54. According to what Scripture did it so become Christ to suffer and to die, and also to rise on the Third Day?

The holy Scriptures are twofold; of the Old and of the New Testament.

The former, namely the Old Testament, foretold that Christ should come, and also the manner in which he should redeem mankind; namely, by suffering, dying and arising again from the dead: Therefore, according to those Scriptures, all these things were to be fulfilled by Christ. (cf. Psalm 16:8-11; Psalm 2:7; Psalm 21:25-27 (LXX); Psalm 40:1-3; Psalm 49:15; Isaiah 53:10; Hosea 6:1-2; et al.)

And by the latter, namely, the New Testament, it is manifestly confirmed, that Christ did fulfill all these things, and that he came into the world for that very cause whereof it was before written, as he says of himself, The Son of Man indeed goes just as it is written of him (Mark 14:21). And again, after his Resurrection, to his two disciples as they were journeying, Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses, and all the Prophets, he expounded unto them, in all the Scriptures, the things concerning himself (Luke 24:26-27).

Now, that the Old Testament ought to have full and satisfactory credit and authority with us, the Apostle testifies, saying of it, We have also a more sure word of prophecy, whereunto you do well that you take heed, as unto a light that shines in a dark place, until the day dawns, and the Morning Star arises in your hearts (2 Peter 1:19).

Furthermore, all the Evangelists confirm unto us that these things were done exactly according to those Scriptures.[113] The Apostle also states:

Christ died for us, according to the Scriptures; and that he was buried, and that he arose again on the Third Day, according to the Scriptures. And that he was seen of Cephas, and then of the Twelve. After that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some have fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James, then of all the Apostles. And last of all, he was seen of me also, as of one born out of due time. (1 Corinthians 15:3-8)

The Prophet Jonah had also, of old, beautifully represented (τύπος) the Resurrection of Christ; as our Lord Jesus Christ applied it to himself when he spoke to the Jews, saying:

An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and there shall no sign be given unto it but the Sign of the Prophet Jonah. For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. (Matthew 12:39-40; cf. Jonah 1:17; 2:1-10)

c32C

The Sixth Article: Of the Ascension.

55. What is the Sixth Article of the Faith?

Who ascended into heaven, and sits at the right hand of the Father.

56. What are we taught by this Article?

Four Doctrines.

First, That Christ ascended into heaven, and sat down, with glory and honor, at the right hand of God; with that very same body in which he had truly and really suffered the torments of the Cross, and with which he had arisen from the dead.

Secondly, That he ascended into heaven only as man, for as God he was always there, and in all places.

Thirdly, That Christ never after put off the human nature which he had taken upon him of the blessed Virgin, and that he will hereafter come again to Judgment therewith; as the Angels spoke to the Apostles, This same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven shall so come in like manner as you have seen him go into heaven (Acts 1:11).

Fourthly, We are hereby taught the body of Christ is in heaven only, and not on the earth after the manner it used to be according to the flesh he wore;[114] but only after a sacramental mode (μυστηριώδη τρόπον); whereby, in the Eucharist, the same Son of God, God and man, is present on earth by a change of substance (Greek: μετουσίωσις; Latin: transsubstantiatio), for the substance (ουσία) of the bread is changed into the substance (μεταβάλλεται εἱς τὴν οὐσίαν) of his most holy Body, and the substance (ουσία) of the wine into the substance (ουσία) of his most precious Blood. Wherefore we ought to glorify and reverence the holy Eucharist as our Savior Jesus himself.

c32V

The Seventh Article: Of the Second Coming.

57. What is the Seventh Article of the Faith?

He shall come again with glory to judge both the living and the dead, whose Kingdom shall have no End.

58. What does this Article teach us?

Three things.

First, That Christ will come again, to judge the living and the dead; as he himself says, When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy Angels with him (Matthew 25:31). And this coming will be with swiftness, As the lightning comes out of the east, and shines even unto the west, so also shall the coming of the Son of Man be (Matthew 24:27); Also, But of that day and hour no man knows; no, not the Angels (24:36). But first it must be that these things happen, namely, That the Gospel be preached unto all nations (24:14); that Antichrist come (24:24); that there be horrid and inhuman wars, famine, and pestilence (24:7); and the like. In a word, that there be many and great afflictions, according to the word of the Lord, Then shall he great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall he after (24:21).

Of this Judgment the Apostle thus plainly teaches, I charge you, therefore, before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the living and the dead, at his appearing and his Kingdom (2 Timothy 4:1).

59. What is the second doctrine contained in this Article?

The second is that in this Last Judgment all men are to give an account of all their thoughts, words, and works, as the Scripture testifies, I say unto you, that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the Day of Judgment (Matthew 12:36). And so the Apostle:

Therefore judge nothing before the Time, until the Lord comes, who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the heart; and then shall every man have his praise of God. (1 Corinthians 4:5)

60. What is the third thing taught in this Article?

The third is how in that day every one shall receive a full and everlasting reward, according to his merit; some receiving this sentence, Come, you who are blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the beginning of the world (Matthew 25:34). And to others shall be pronounced this afflicting sound, Depart from me, you cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the Devil and his Angels (Matthew 25:41); Where their worm dies not, and the fire is not quenched (Mark 9:44).

61. Although in that Day all men in general must give an account of their actions and affairs; I would like to know whether everyone, at his departure from this life, gives an account of his life, and answers, as it were, in a Particular Judgment (κριτήριον μερικὸν).

The Day of the Last Judgment (τελευταίας κρίσεως) will not be by inquiring after every minute circumstance, for all things are known and manifest unto God; and as everyone, at the time of his death, is fully conscious to himself of all his sins, so does every one, after death, very well know what is to be the payment for his works;

For as his works are clearly manifest, so is the will of God concerning them also clearly manifest. As St. Gregory of Nazianzus, the Theologian, says in the Funeral Oration (Oration 7) for his brother, St. Caesarius:

I am induced to believe, that, as wise men say, the good and acceptable soul, when its espousal with the body is dissolved, enjoying with the powers of its mind the good which it possesses (for that which before clouded it with darkness being now purged away, or laid aside, or what no words can express), is enraptured, and exults with a most singular and transporting joy, and flies rejoicing to its Lord (while it escapes from this life, as from a loathsome prison, and spurns under its feet the shackles which fettered before the wings of its mind) to taste, as in imagination, the bliss in store for it.

And when, not long after, it again receives its well-known body from the earth, which first supplied, and now had kept it safe in store; after a manner only known to God, who first joined, and afterwards separated them; with that body, wherein it had before lived the heavenly life, it enters now united, with the heavenly glory as their inheritance.

The wicked souls may be considered in the same manner; namely, that they are immediately aware of the torments that await them, howbeit, neither the just nor the wicked receive the full recompense of their works before the Last Judgment; nor are they all in one state, nor limited to one place.

Now, from hence it is clear enough that this could not be before the Last Judgment (τελευταίας κρίσεως) without some kind of Particular Judgment (κρίσεως μερικῆς): And therefore there is such a Particular Judgment (μερικὸν κριτήριον) as this. When, therefore, we say that God does not require an exact account of our lives, it is to be understood that we mean, not according to the forms and weakness of human tribunals.

62. Are not all the souls of the saints placed in the same degree of happiness after death?

As the souls do not all go out of this life in the same degree of divine grace, so neither after their departure are they in one and the same degree of happiness. This we learn from Christ himself, In my Father's house are many mansions (John 14:2). And elsewhere, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: But to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little (Luke 7:47). To the same purpose speaks the Apostle, Who will render unto every man according to his works (Romans 2:6).

63. What are we to think concerning those who depart hence under the wrath of God?

Of these, after the Final Judgment (ἐσχἀτην κρίσιν), some will receive greater torments (μεγαλητέρην κόλασιν), some lesser; but both will be without end (Greek: αἰωνίως; Latin: aeternis omnes tormentis cruciatum iri), As the Scripture declares:

That servant that knew his Lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many lashes: But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few lashes. (Luke 12:47-48)

64. Do not some die, so as to be in a medium between the blessed and the damned?

Of these there are not any; nevertheless, it is certain that many sinners are freed from the bonds of Hades; not by their own repentance or confession, as the Scripture says, In Hades who shall give you thanks? (Psalm 6:5) And elsewhere, The dead shall not praise you, O Lord; nor any that go down into Hades (Psalm 113:17 LXX); but with the blessings of the living (μὲ τὰς εὐποιΐας τῶν ζώντων),[115] and for the prayers of the Church, made in their behalf; and especially for the sake of the Bloodless Sacrifice (τὴν ἀναίμακτον θυσίαν, i.e. as at the Divine Liturgy) which the Church daily offers up for the living and the dead; in like manner as Christ also died for both.

But the souls of such are by no means to be delivered by their own works; as Blessed Theophylact, commenting on these words of Christ, To whom power is given of forgiving sins on earth (Luke 5:24), teaches; saying:

Observe that sins are forgiven on earth; for so long as we continue on earth we can wipe out our sins by repentance, but after we leave this earth we are no more able of ourselves to cancel our sins by our confessions. The doors then are shut.

And again, on the words of Matthew, Bind him hand and foot (Matthew 22:13), by which the active faculties of the soul are meant, he says:

In this life we may labor and endeavour, but afterwards the active faculties of the soul are bound, nor can we do anymore to outweigh our offences.

And further, commenting on Matthew 25:6-13, he says, There is no more time for repentance and good works after this life.

From all which it is clear, that after its separation the soul can no more repent (μετανοέω), nor do any other work whereby it might be freed from the bondage of Hades. Therefore, only the Divine Liturgy, the prayers and charitable deeds, which are performed by the living, for their sakes, do comfort and greatly benefit the souls, and free them from the bondage of Hades.

65. What, then, are we to think concerning charitable giving and good works, which are performed for the comfort of the departed?

Blessed Theophylact, expounding these words of Christ, Fear him who has power (ἐξουσία) to cast into Hell (γέεννα; Gehenna) (Luke 12:5), thus treats of this matter:

Observe, my brethren, Christ says not, “Fear him who, after he has killed, casts into Hell (γέεννα),” but who has power(ἐξουσία) to cast into Hell. For he does not cast all who died in their sins into Hell, but it is in the hand of God to do so, and also to forgive them. This, I say, concerning the pious offerings and intercessions which are made for the good of those that sleep. For these things are of no small benefit, even to those who depart hence in the most grievous state of sin. God does not, then, cast the guilty into Hell when he has killed them; but he has power to cast them into Hell. Wherefore let us not cease to endeavour, again and again, by our charitable giving and our intercessions, to implore his mercy, who, having the power to cast into Hell, does not always exert that power; but also has the ability (δύναμαι) to forgive.

We are therefore taught by the holy Scripture, and the commentary of this Father, that we ought, by all means, to pray for the departed, to offer the Bloodless Sacrifice (θυσίας ἀναιμάκτους) for them, and to dispense our charitable giving with a liberal hand; seeing they can no more perform these good works for themselves.

66. What are we to think of the fire of purgatory (τὸ πῦρ τὸ καθαρτήριον)?

It is nowhere taught in the holy Scriptures that there is any temporary punishment, whereby the soul, after death, may be purged. On the contrary, the Church, in the Second Council of Constantinople (i.e. the Fifth Ecumenical Council held in 553), did condemn Origen for this very opinion (γνώμη).[116]

Moreover, it is evident that the soul, when once departed, cannot again become a partaker of the sacraments of the Church. If this could be, that the soul satisfy there for sins committed in this life, then, by like reason, it might partake of the sacraments of penance there; which being contrary to orthodox doctrine, the Church rightly and wisely offers the Unbloody Sacrifice (ἀναίμακτον θυσίαν) for those souls, together with her prayers, that they may be forgiven those things wherein they had offended while they continued in this life: And not that they might be delivered from any punishment (κόλασις) that they were then suffering for a time only.

Our Church does not admit or approve of such fables as some men have fancied concerning the state of souls after death; as that they are tormented in pits and waters, and with skewers, when they are snatched away by death (before they can have done sufficient penance for their faults).

67. What place is particularly appointed for those souls that go hence in a state of grace and favor with God?

Those souls of men which depart hence in the grace of God (τήν χάριν τοῦ Θεοῦ), and have wiped out their sins by repentance (μετάνοια), have their place in the hand of God.

As says the holy Scripture, The souls of the righteous are in the hand of God, and there shall no torments touch them (Wisdom 3:1). Their place is also named Paradise, as our Lord Christ called it to the thief on the Cross, Assuredly I say to you, This day you shall be with me in Paradise (Luke 23:43).

It is also called Abraham's Bosom; as in Luke, And it came to pass that the beggar died, and was carried by the Angels into Abraham's Bosom (Luke 16:22).

Sometimes it is named the Kingdom of Heaven, as it was by our Lord:

I say unto you, that many shall come from the East and West, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob in the Kingdom of Heaven. (Matthew 8:11)

By whichsoever of these three names that we have mentioned any one shall call the place of righteous souls, he will not err; provided that he believes and understands this much, that they enjoy the grace of God (τήν χάριν τοῦ Θεοῦ), and are in his heavenly Kingdom, and, as the Hymns of the Church mention, in Heaven.

68. Where is the place of those souls who leave their bodies under divine wrath (θεϊκὴν ὀργὴν)?

Many names are given to that place: It is called Hades (ᾅδης), into which the Devil, when cast out of Heaven, was driven; as the Prophet testifies:

I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the Most High, says Satan. Yet you shall be brought down to Hades, to the lowest depths of the pit. (Isaiah 14:14-15)

Again, it is called everlasting fire(πῦρ αἰώνιον); as the Scripture says, Depart from me, you cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the Devil and his Angels (Matthew 25:41).

Likewise it is named outer darkness(σκότος ἐξώτερον), Cast the unprofitable servant into outer darkness; there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth (Matthew 25:30).

It is called by many other names, all of which mean a place of condemnation (τὀπος τῆς κατακρίσεως) and the divine wrath (τῆς θείας ὀργῆς).

To this place go down the souls of all those who die at enmity with God, and under his wrath; and here are they damned.

This, then, is to be believed by the faithful, that as the souls of the righteous, although received into Heaven, do not receive the full and perfect crown of glory before the Last Judgment, so neither do the souls of the damned feel and suffer the full measure and weight of the punishments before that time.

But after that final and decisive Judgment, the souls of all, rejoined to their bodies, will be crowned with glory or overwhelmed with torments.

c34V

The Eighth Article: Of the Holy Spirit.

69. What is the Eighth Article of the Faith?

And in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the Giver of Life, who proceeds from the Father, who with the Father and the Son together is worshipped and glorified, who spoke by the Prophets.

70. What does this Article teach?

Three things.

First, That the Holy Spirit is God, of the same substance (Greek: ὁμοούσιος; Latin: consubstantialem) with the Father and the Son; as these words of the Apostle clearly show:

There are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit: And differences of ministries, but the same Lord: And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God that works all in all. (1 Corinthians 12:4-6)

And again, The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit, be with you all (2 Corinthians 13:14).

Now, whereas, in these texts the Holy Spirit is sometimes named first, and sometimes the Son, it is because all the three Persons are of one essence (ὁμοούσια) and partakers of equal honors (ἰσὀτιμα). The Son and the Holy Spirit are, both of them immediately (ἀμέσως) and equally (ὁμοίως), of one essence (μίαν οὐσίαν) and glory (Latin: gloriae) with the Father; the Father being the Origin (originem) of the Son and the Spirit: the Son as being Begotten (generationem) and the Holy Spirit as Proceeding (processionem).[117]

According to what Peter declares to Ananias in the Acts of the Apostles, Why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit? (Acts 5:3) And presently, after he concludes, says, You have not lied unto men, but to God (Acts 5:4). The Holy Spirit is, therefore, certainly true and very God.

71. What is the second thing taught in this Article?

That the Holy Spirit proceeds (ἐκπορεύομαι; Latin: procedit) from the Father alone (μόνου; Latin: solo), as the Source (fonte) and Principle (origine) of his Divinity (Greek: ὡς πηγῆς καὶ ἀρχῆς τῆς θεότητος); as our Savior himself teaches us:

When the Comforter comes, whom I will send to you from the Father; the Spirit of Truth, who proceeds (ἐκπορεύομαι) from the Father. (John 15:26)

St. Athanasius lays down the same doctrine in his Creed (line 23), The Holy Spirit is of the Father, not made, nor created, nor begotten, but proceeding.[118] And elsewhere in his works:

God and Father, he only is the cause of the other two, and unbegotten. The Son, begotten, and sprung from the Father only, the cause of his origin. The Holy Spirit himself also springs and proceeds only from the Father, as his cause, and by the Son was sent into the world. (Holy Questions, vol. 2.43)[119]

And St. Gregory the Theologian says:

The Holy Spirit, who Proceeds from the Father, is Uncreated, as being Proceeding; as being Unbegotten, he is not the Son; but as being between Unbegotten and Begotten, he is God. (Oration 31: Fifth Theological Oration, paragraph 8)

Since we have already treated of this matter at large in the First Article, let it, therefore, suffice us that we hold what Christ himself taught; what the catholic and orthodox Eastern Church believes and altogether professed in the Second Ecumenical Council; and let us hold fast the Faith, without adding: “And from the Son,” as the Church has commanded.[120]

Nay, not only the orthodox and catholic Eastern Church has passed a heavy censure on those who add these words, but also the Western Roman Church. This is evident from the two Silver Tables, on one of which the Creed was engraved in Greek, and on the other in Latin, without this addition: “And from the Son”; which Tables were, by order of Leo the Third, Pope of Rome, affixed up in St. Peters Church, in the Year of our Lord 809, as Baronius confessed.

Whosoever, therefore, continues firm and constant in this the Faith, he may have undoubting hope of his salvation, as one who does not turn aside from the common opinion (τὴν κοινήν γνώμην) of the Church.

72. What is the third thing taught in this Article?

That the Holy Spirit is the real author of the holy Scripture, both of the Old and of the New Testaments; and wrote them by the hands of many co-workers (πολλῶν συνεργῶν): Wherefore the Scriptures of the Old Testament, and also of the New, is the teaching of the Holy Spirit.

And whatsoever the holy Fathers have decreed in Ecumenical and Particular Orthodox Councils, wheresoever they were held, is taught of the Holy Spirit. The holy Apostles speak thus in their council, It seemed good to the Holy Spirit, and to us (Acts 15:28): After whose example other Orthodox Councils have, in the same style, concluded their decrees.[121]

On the Gifts of the Holy Spirit.

73. What, and how many, are the Gifts of the Holy Spirit?

Seven:

Wisdom 

Understanding 

Counsel 

Strength 

Knowledge 

Godliness 

Fear of God 

Of these Gifts the holy Scripture speaks thus, And there were seven Lamps of Fire burning before the Throne, which are the seven Spirits of God (Revelation 4:5). Now, these Gifts of the Spirit, or, to speak more properly, the Holy Spirit himself, was in Christ after a more abundant and perfect manner than ever in any other man, as says the Prophet Isaiah:

And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the Spirit of Wisdom and Understanding, the Spirit of Counsel and Might, the Spirit of Knowledge, and of the Fear of the Lord. (Isaiah 11:2)

This the Evangelist St. John confirms with his testimony:

And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us; and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. (John 1:14)

And, Of his fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace (John 1:16). For the Holy Spirit was in Christ, as being consubstantial (ὁμοούσιος) with him according to his divinity (κατά τὴν θεότητα); and filled him with grace and wisdom, as it is written, And the child grew, and waxed strong in Spirit, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him (Luke 2:40). This is to be understood of the human nature of Christ.

74. What is the first Gift of the Holy Spirit?

The first Gift is wisdom (σοφία; Latin: sapientia); namely, that wisdom which is from above, of which the Apostle thus speaks:

The wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy. (James 3:17)

And this is the contrary of carnal wisdom, according to the Apostle, In simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have conducted ourselves in the world (2 Corinthians 1:12). Which fleshly and worldly wisdom the same Apostle further speaks of, rehearsing the Old Testament:

For it is written, “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the intelligent” (Isaiah 29:14). Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has God not made foolish the wisdom of this world? (1 Corinthians 1:19-20; cf. Isaiah 33:18)

75. What is the second Gift of the Holy Spirit?

The Gift of understanding (συνέσεως; Latin: intelligentiae), or the knowledge of the hidden and secret things of the divine will, whereof the Scripture thus teaches:

Everyone wise in understanding in whom the Lord put wisdom and understanding, to know how to work all manner of work for the service of the sanctuary, according to all that the Lord had commanded. (Exodus 36:1)

And of Daniel and his companions, God gave them knowledge and skill in all learning and Wisdom, and Daniel had Understanding in all Visions and Dreams (Daniel 1:17). And also, Then he opened their understanding, that they might understand the Scriptures (Luke 24:45). And the Apostle, May the Lord give you understanding in all things (2 Timothy 2:7).

Contrary to this is folly and disbelief; of which our Lord says thus, Fool, and slow of heart to believe all that the Prophets have spoken (Luke 24:25). And elsewhere the Apostle, Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now made perfect by the flesh? (Galatians 3:3)

76. What is the third Gift of the Holy Spirit?

The third Gift of the Holy Spirit is counsel (βουλὴ; Latin: consilium), which serves to carry to the divine glory and the salvation of men's souls, and is nearly the same as justice.

Of this counsel the Scripture speaks, For I did not shrink from declaring unto you the whole counsel of God (Acts 20:27).

Opposite to this is the counsel of the ungodly; of which the divine Psalmist sings, Blessed is the man who has not walked in the counsel of the ungodly (Psalm 1:1). And again:

The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing, and makes the calculations of the people to be of no effect, and casts out the counsels of princes. (Psalm 32:10 LXX)

77. What is the fourth Gift of the Holy Spirit?

Strength (ἰσχὺς; Latin: robur). For, maintaining all constancy and fortitude in the Faith, we ought bravely to resist all temptations: Of which strength of mind the Scriptures speak thus, Watch, stand fast in the Faith, act like men, be strong (1 Corinthians 16:13). And:

Stand, therefore, having your waist fastened about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness; and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith you shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked; and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. (Ephesians 6:14-17)

Contrary to this strength is fear; of which the Holy Prophet David says, They were brought in great fear, even where no fear was (Psalm 13:5 LXX; cf. Psalm 53:5). And our Lord Jesus Christ forbids to have this fear, Fear not those that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do (Luke 12:4).

78. What is the fifth Gift of the Holy Spirit?

Knowledge (γνῶσις; Latin: cognitio), which the holy Psalmist thus describes, Who instructs the nations, shall not he chasten? It is he that teaches man knowledge (Psalm 94:10). And the Prophet Jeremiah, I will give you shepherds according to my heart, who shall feed you with knowledge and understanding (Jeremiah 3:15).

Which knowledge and understanding is chiefly to be understood and explained to mean the knowledge of the will and law of God.

Contrary to this is ignorance; namely, of the divine will and law: as says the Psalmist:

Pour out your indignation upon the nations that have not known you, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon your Name. (Psalm 79:6)

79. What is the sixth Gift of the Holy Spirit?

Godliness (ευσέβεια; Latin: pietas), which with right faith is founded on constant, fervent prayer and good works; of which the Apostle says, Godliness is profitable unto all things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come (1 Timothy 4:8).

Therefore are those truly called godly who continually worship God with prayer, and shun everything that pertains to sin. Godliness, I say, not showy and specious, as was that formerly of the Pharisees, but solid and genuine, deep rooted in the bottom of the heart, and to which this saying of our Lord's cannot be applied, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me (Matthew 15:8; cf. Isaiah 29:13). And again, You blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within the cup and dish, that the outside of them may be clean also (Matthew 23:26).

80. What is the Seventh Gift of the Holy Spirit?

The Fear of God (ὁ φόβος τοῦ Θεοῦ; Latin: timor Dei), which ought to be like the fear of children towards their parents, and not like the fear of servants towards their masters.

Of this proper, right fear the holy Psalmist sings, O fear the Lord, you his saints, for they that fear him lack nothing (Psalm 34:9).

But of the other sort of Fear the Apostle says thus, There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear; because fear has torment; he that fears is not made perfect in love (1 John 4:18).

And the Scripture teaches us that we should fear God for love, O praise the Lord, you that fear him. Glorify him, all you of the seed of Jacob; and fear him, all you seed of Israel (Psalm 22:23).

He that thus fears the Lord will keep his Commandments, as it is said, If a man loves me, he will keep my word (John 14:23; cf. John 14:21).

81. What, and how many, are the Fruits of the Holy Spirit?

Saint Paul lists nine Fruits of the Holy Spirit (καρποὺς τοῦ ἁγίου Πνεύματος), or Signs of divine grace (σημάσια τῆς θείας χάριτος), The Fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control (Galatians 5:22-23a).[122]

But we are, moreover, to call and account all other virtues Fruits of the Holy Spirit, because they come down from him, and by his grace are rightly practised by men: And, therefore, St. Paul does not add, against these there is no law (Galatians 5:23b), as if there were a law against any other such kind of virtue: there being many like unto these.

c37N

The Ninth Article: Of the Church.

82. What is the Ninth Article of the Faith?

In one, holy, catholic, and apostolic Church.

83. What does the holy Church teach in this Article of the Faith?

Four things. First, That the Church is one, holy, catholic and apostolic; according to the doctrine of the Apostle, I have espoused you to one Husband, that I may present you as a pure Virgin unto Christ (2 Corinthians 11:2). For like as Christ is only one, so his Bride also can be but one; as is manifest from the Epistle to the Ephesians, One Lord, one Faith, one Baptism, one God and Father of all (Ephesians 4:5-6).

84. What is the second thing contained in this Article?

The second thing taught in this Article is, that the Church does not take this name of catholic Church from anyone place (τόπον) or see predominant over all others; For those are particular churches which are in particular places; As, for example, the Church in Ephesus, in Philadelphia, in Laodicea, in Antioch, in Jerusalem, in Rome, in Alexandria, and others.

However, among these particular churches she may well be called the mother (μήτηρ) who was honored first with the presence of Christ, and received eternal life and remission of sins, and from which the Gospel was first preached and spread through the whole world; As the Scripture bears witness:

Thus it was necessary for Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day. And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his Name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem, and you are witnesses of these things. (Luke 24:46-48)

And elsewhere, You shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth (Acts 1:8). Yet she is called first (πρῶτος) who outshone all other churches in sanctity of doctrine (διδασκαλία) and moral character (ἦθος), and to whose judgment the Apostles submitted their actions; as the Scripture tells us:

And when Peter was come up to Jerusalem, they that were of the Circumcision contended with him, saying, “You went to men uncircumcised, and did eat with them.” (Acts 11:2-3)

To which Peter answered:

What was I, that I could withstand God? When they heard these things they held their peace, and glorified God, saying, “Then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance unto life.” (Acts 11:17-18)

And:

Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of the Church in Jerusalem; and they sent forth Barnabas, that he should go as far as Antioch. (Acts 11:22)

And elsewhere:

They determined that Paul and Barnabas, and certain others of them, should go up to Jerusalem unto the Apostles and Elders about this question. (Acts 15:2)

And:

Then it pleased the Apostles and Elders, with the whole Church, to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas... and wrote Letters by them after this manner... It seemed good unto the Holy Spirit, and to us, to lay no greater burden upon you than those necessary things. (Acts 15:22-23, 28)

Further also of the same:

And as they went through the cities, they delivered to them for observance (φυλάσσω) the decrees (δόγμα) which were ordained (κρίνω) by the Apostles and Elders which were at Jerusalem. (Acts 16:4)

The Church of Jerusalem, therefore, is without doubt the mother (μήτηρ) of all other churches, and first (πρώτη; Latin: princeps): forasmuch as the Gospel was spread from her over the whole world (although, indeed, in later times, the Emperors gave the precedence to Old and New Rome, for the honor of the Empire, which they became the Seats of, according to the third Canon of the Second Ecumenical Council, at Constantinople).[123]

Nevertheless, this Church of Jerusalem was the universal (καθολική) Church, as all nations received their faith and doctrine from her.

85. What is the third thing contained in this Article?

That Jesus Christ is the only foundation of the Church, according to the words of the Apostle, No other foundation can anyone lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ (1 Corinthians 3:11).

Although on some occasions the Apostles and Prophets are called the foundations of the Faith and of the Church; as when St. John says:

That the great city, Jerusalem, was enclosed with a wall, having twelve foundations, and in them the names of the Twelve Apostles of the Lamb were written. (Revelation 21:14)

And St. Paul affirms that we are built upon the foundations of the Apostles and Prophets (Ephesians 2:20).

This is to be understood, not as if the Apostles and Prophets were these foundations of themselves and in the first instance; for in that sense Christ only is the foundation; but secondarily, and with relation to Him, as being themselves laid next upon the foundation of the doctrine of salvation of our Lord Jesus Christ, as being the first who propagated the Faith of Christ over the whole world. For Christ has not founded his Church on any mortal men, but only upon himself, and on his own divine doctrine.

Moreover, we are taught, in this Article, that Christ is the only Head of his Church; according as we are taught by the Apostle, For the husband is the head of the wife, and Christ is the Head of the Church; and he is the Savior of the Body (Ephesians 5:23). And again:

He is the Head of the Body, the Church, who is the beginning, the first-born from the dead; that in all things he might have the preeminence. (Colossians 1:18)

However, the rulers (προΐστημι) of the Church are called heads (κεφαλή), in their several churches over which they are chief priests (ἀρχιερεῖς); but this is only as stewards and deputies (vicarius) of Christ, in his several provinces, over which they are said to be heads. Thus the holy Scripture speaks then:

Take heed, therefore, unto yourselves, and unto the whole flock, over which the Holy Spirit has made you Bishops (ἐπίσκοπος, literally overseers), to feed the Churches of God, which he has purchased with his own blood. (Acts 20:28)

In suchwise, however, that Christ himself is the Head and Chief of the Shepherds; as St. Peter testifies, When the chief Shepherd appears, you shall receive the unfading crown of glory (1 Peter 5:4).

86. What is the fourth thing taught in this Article?

It instructs us that every Christian ought to submit himself and be obedient to the Church.

This Christ himself teaches, If he neglects to hear the Church, let him be to you as a heathen and a tax collector (Matthew 18:17).

And the Church is so fully empowered, that she has authority, in her Ecumenical Councils, to examine (δοκιμάζῃ; Latin: examinare) and confirm (approbare) the Scriptures; to inquire into the behaviour and so judge of Patriarchs, Popes, Bishops, and all others; and to inflict severe canonical punishment upon them according to their offences. For it is the pillar and the ground of truth, as the Apostle says:

That you may know how you ought to behave yourself in the House of God, which is the Church of the Living God, the Pillar and Ground of Truth. (1 Timothy 3:15)

The Precepts of the Church.

87. What are the precepts of the Church?

The chief and principal commands or precepts of the Church are nine in number:

Reverent worship and regular attendance at Church. 

Seasonal fasts of the Church Year. 

Honor to clergy. 

Regular confession. 

Avoidance of corrupt doctrines and heretics. 

Intercessory prayer for all peoples. 

Occasional prayers and fasts. 

Tithes and offerings. 

Consistent Christian worldview and lifestyle. 

Of the first precept, That every one worship God with an humble and contrite heart, and carefully observe all the Sundays and Holy Days, and all other solemn times as the Church shall appoint. That is, by diligently attending the services, of Matins, the Liturgy, Vespers, and instruction (διδαχή; Latin: concionem), of which the Scripture thus teaches us, Men ought always to pray, and not to faint (Luke 18:1). And again:

Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. (Ephesians 6:18)

And in another place St. Paul goes on, Pray without ceasing (1 Thessalonians 5:17).

88. What is the second precept of the Church?

The second precept of the Church is that every Christian yearly keep and observe four stated or set fasts, i.e. periods of fasting.

The first is the time leading up to the Nativity of Christ, which is to say the Nativity Fast, beginning the fifteenth day of November.

The second, which is called Great Lent, prior to Pascha, is established by the fasting of Christ himself, And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, at length he was hungry (Matthew 4:2).

The third is of the holy Apostles, which the Church appoints to begin immediately after the week of Pentecost (on the second Monday after the Sunday of Pentecost); this is called the Apostles’s Fast, because at this time the holy Apostles, prior to sending forth Paul and Barnabas to preach the Gospel, solemnised a fast, as appears from Acts, When they had fasted and prayed, they laid their hands on them and sent them away (Acts 13:3).

The fourth is the Dormition Fast, the fast leading up to the falling asleep of the most holy Theotokos and Ever-Virgin Mary, beginning the first day of August, and ending on the Feast of the Dormition, which is the fifteenth day of the same month.

Moreover, Orthodox Christians must fast on all Wednesdays and Fridays, but not on Saturdays and Sundays (this being forbidden by the 66th Canon of the holy Apostles),[124] except the great Sabbath, or holy Saturday, which is the Eve of Pascha.

The Church also appoints the fourteenth of September, being the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, to be observed as a fast, because on that day we solemnise the memory of our Lord’s suffering, by reciting the Gospel wherein the Passion of Jesus Christ is related.

Also, the twenty-ninth of August is to be held a fast, it being the beheading of St. John the Baptist, the Forerunner of Christ.

Furthermore, on some certain days of exception the Church forbids us to fast: First, from the day of our Lord's Nativity to holy Epiphany; and, secondly, all of Bright Week (Greek: διακαινήσμος ἑβδομάς, or, Renewal Week) following, and including, Pascha; and, thirdly, the week of Pentecost (or, Trinity Week); also, fourthly, the week beginning on the Sunday of the Publican and the Pharisee.

All which the orthodox Christian ought most faithfully to keep and observe.

89. What is the third precept of the Church?

The third precept is that we respect spiritual persons with all due reverence, as the ministers of God set apart, who pray to God for us: Especially those who, as our spiritual fathers, receive our confessions, and whom we are to consult about our salvation.

Of this command the Scripture thus declares, Let a man so account of us, as of the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God (1 Corinthians 4:1). And again:

We beseech you, brethren, to know them who labor among you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you that you esteem them very highly in love, for their work’s sake. (1 Thessalonians 5:12-13)

Also in another place:

Do you not know that those who minister the holy things live by the things of the Temple, and those who serve at the Altar are partakers with the Altar? Even so the Lord has ordained that those who preach the Gospel should live from the Gospel. (1 Corinthians 9:13-14)

Also in his Epistle to Timothy, Let the Elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially they who labor in the word and doctrine (1 Timothy 5:17).

It is, therefore, unlawful for laypersons to meddle with and thrust themselves into spiritual matters; as the Apostle says: Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, you who are spiritual restore such a one in the spirit of gentleness (Galatians 6:1).

90. What is the fourth precept of the Church?

The fourth precept is that we make Confession of our sins to a Priest, rightly and lawfully ordained, four times every year.

However, those who are well advanced in religion and godliness may discharge this duty every month. The weaker brethren must at least once a year, namely, during Great Lent, not fail to unburden their conscience by Confession: And let the sick, before all things, purify their conscience by Confession, and partaking of holy Communion, having first received the holy oil, with prayer, with reverence and devotion.

91. What is the fifth precept of the Church?

The fifth precept is that plain and unlearned men do not read the books of heretics, nor listen to their doctrines, nor entertain any conversation with them, lest they be corrupted, by becoming familiar with them: As the Psalmist and Prophet warns us, Blessed is the man who has not walked in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stood in the way of sinners (Psalm 1:1). And elsewhere the Scripture enjoins us, A man that is a heretic, after the first and second admonition, reject (Titus 3:10).

92. What is the sixth precept of the Church?

The sixth precept is that we pray unto the all-good God for all conditions of the people.

First, For all spiritual persons; for the most holy Patriarch, for the Metropolitan, and for the Bishop of the province to which we belong.

Secondly, For the King (or, the highest civil authority), the Governor of our province (or, local territory), the Senate (or, civil authorities) and Commonwealth (or, country or nation), and for the military (or, armed forces); but chiefly for those who deserve well of the Church and endeavour to propagate and extend the orthodox and catholic religion. According to the Apostle:

I exhort, therefore, that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings, and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life, in all godliness and honesty; for this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. (1 Timothy 2:1-3)

Thirdly, We are to pray for all those who are departed hence in the orthodox Faith.

Lastly, We are to make intercession for heretics and schismatics, that they may repent and return to the sanctuary of true religion before their last day.

93. What is the seventh precept of the Church?

The seventh precept is that all people observe to keep the fasts and supplications which are particularly enjoined and appointed by their Metropolitan or Bishops of their Diocese, when they think proper, by reason of any necessity, to appease the wrath of God, afflicting his people; and for deliverance from pestilence, famine, war, drought, excessive rain, and the like: Or for the sick, and those that are oppressed. As it is said, Peter therefore was kept in prison: but prayer was made without ceasing of the Church to God for him (Acts 12:5).

94. What is the eighth precept of the Church?

The eighth precept is that lay persons (κοσμικοὶ) do not presume to meddle with the goods or finances belonging to the Church, or take them away by fraud or force and apply them to their own needs; but that those cares be committed to the leaders of the Church, that with the holy treasure they may provide vestments and other necessities; so that those who minister unto the Church, being clothed and fed, they may have wherewith to relieve the poor and the stranger: According to the Scripture:

The disciples, everyone according to his ability, determined to send relief unto the brethren that dwelt in Judea; which also they did, and sent it to the Elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul. (Acts 11:29-30)

Besides, it is unjust that either lay persons (κοσμικοὺς), or, indeed, that even the spiritual leaders who, in any Church, are entrusted with the care of the things appertaining to the Church, should withdraw any money, or other valuable movables, whether left by will to the Church or given to it otherwise, and pervert them to their own private use and profit: For thus the piety of well-disposed persons would be disappointed and rendered ineffectual.

95. What is the ninth precept of the Church?

That no marriage be solemnised on such days as are forbidden by the Church.

Also, that orthodox Christians abstain from forbidden games and diversions, and from theaters and unseemly shows; not following the morality (τὰ ἢθη) of the barbarians (τὰ βάρβαρα, i.e. those foreign to or ignorant of Christianity), but avoiding, as much as possible, all their bad customs.

96. Why do we, who ought only to believe in God, profess to believe in the Church, which is a creation?

Because, although the Church is a creation, as consisting of men (who are created beings), she has for her Head Christ himself, who is very God. She has the Holy Spirit, who perpetually teaches and guides her, and makes her, according to the Apostle, The spotless and unblemished Spouse of Christ (Ephesians 5:27); and, The pillar and ground of the truth (1 Timothy 3:15).

Now, her decrees (δόγματα) and doctrines (διδάγματά) are by no means human, but divine; not by man, but of God. When, therefore, we profess to believe in her, we profess to believe in the words of God (i.e. the Scriptures) traditioned to her (θεόπαράδοτά της λόγια), and in the decrees which are inspired by God (θεόπνευστα δόγματα). For thus says the Scripture, Holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit (2 Peter 1:21). In like manner St. Paul, You received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God, which also effectually works in you who believe (1 Thessalonians 2:13).

Wherefore we are persuaded to have faith, both in the holy Gospel, which the Church has received, according to that command of Christ himself, Believe the Gospel (Mark 1:15), and also in all the other holy writings and decrees of Councils.

c3B8

The Tenth Article: Of the Sacraments.

97. What is the Tenth Article of the Faith?

I confess one Baptism for the remission of sins.

98. What does this Article of the Faith teach?

Whereas we here have Baptism, which is the first Sacrament (τὸ πρῶτον μυστήριον) of the Church made mention of: This seems a fitting place wherein to discourse concerning the Seven Sacraments of the Church, which are these:[125]

Baptism 

The Oil of Anointing (Chrismation) 

The Eucharist (Communion) 

Holy Orders (Ordination) 

Repentance (Confession, and Absolution) 

Honorable Marriage 

The Anointing of the Sick 

These Seven Sacraments correspond unto the Seven Gifts of the Spirit inasmuch as by them the Holy Spirit conveys his Gifts and grace unto the soul that rightly uses these Sacraments. Concerning which matter the Patriarch Jeremiah has more at large treated, in the books which he wrote for the conversion of the Lutherans.[126]

99. What is a Sacrament (μυστήριον)?

A Sacrament (μυστήριον) is a certain holy rite or ceremony, which, under a visible element, causes and conveys into the soul of the faithful the invisible grace of God; an institution of our Lord, whereby every one of the faithful receives the divine grace.

100. What things are requisite to a Sacrament?

Three things.

First, Fit and proper material (ὓλη), as water in Baptism, bread and wine in the Eucharist, oil and other things in their respective Sacraments.

Secondly, A Bishop, or a Priest, regularly ordained.

Thirdly, The invocation of the Holy Spirit, and a solemn form of Words: By which the Priest celebrates the Sacrament, through the power and efficacy of the Holy Spirit: Having a fixed and deliberate intention of celebrating it.

101. For what end were the Sacraments instituted?

First, That they might be the marks and signs of the true Children of God, and of the orthodox, catholic, and Apostolic Church. For whosoever rightly partakes of the Sacraments, the same is a real and true member of the Church of God; and by grace a Child of God.

Secondly, That we might have a sure pledge of our trust in God. To wit, that if we persevere with constancy in faith, and with good works following (καὶ μετὰ καλὰ ἒργα), then we shall become partakers of salvation and eternal life.

Thirdly, That we might have a present and certain remedy wherewith to heal the diseases caused by our sins.

102. What is the first Sacrament, or Baptism?

Baptism is a washing away and rooting out of the Ancestral Sin (τοῦ προπατορικοῦ ἁμαρτὴματος; Latin: peccati originalis),[127] by being thrice immersed in water, the Priest pronouncing these words: In the Name of the Father, Amen; and of the Son, Amen; and of the Holy Spirit, Amen.[128]

After which regeneration (ἀναγέννησιν; Latin: regenerationem) by water and the Spirit a man is restored to the grace of God, and the way opened him into the Kingdom of Heaven; as our Savior said, Except a man is born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God (John 3:5).

But this Sacrament, being once received, is not to be again repeated; provided the person who administered the Baptism believed according to an orthodox manner in three Persons in One God, and accurately, and without any alteration, pronounced the aforementioned words; namely, In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, Amen, as the holy, catholic, and orthodox Church directs.

103. What is requisite to be observed in this Sacrament?

First, It is necessary that the infant, by his Sponsor, who must be an Orthodox Christian, should renounce the Devil and all his works, and all respect and worship to him: But if the person to be baptized is of legal age (νομίμου ἡλικίας), then he shall, with his own mouth, make this renunciation, by answering the question put to him by the Priest, and by expressing his scorn of Satan and all his works.

Secondly, That he make open confession of the Faith, by repeating the Symbol of the Faith (τὸ σύμβολον τῆς πίστεως) i.e. the Creed; but if it be an infant, the Sponsor shall profess the Symbol of the Faith (τὸ σύμβολον τοοῦτο τῆς πίστεως) for it, and bind (ὑποσχεθῇ) it unto Christ.

And, thirdly, That care be taken to use none other than pure water, not mixed with any other thing; and such as is natural, and not made by art (τεχνητὸν).

Furthermore, lawful Baptism must necessarily be administered by a minister of the Word only, unless in case of urgent necessity, when any other person, whether man or woman, may administer this Sacrament; being observant to use the proper requisite, namely, unmixed and natural and pure water, and dipping the person to be baptized thrice therein, repeating the solemn form of In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, Amen. And this Baptism, which is not to be repeated again, is of such power and efficacy, that it is an undoubted seal and pledge of eternal salvation.

Now, what the fruits and benefits are of this Sacrament may be easily apprehended; for, first, it takes away Ancestral (προπατορικό) Sin in infants, and in those of older age it takes away both original (προπατορικό) and voluntary (προαιρετικός) sin.

Secondly, It renews (ἀνακαινίζεται) the man, and restores (αποκαθίσταται) him to that state of justice and righteousness wherein he stood before, innocent and sinless; as the Apostle testifies, But you are washed, but you are sanctified, but you are justified, in the Name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God (1 Corinthians 6:11).

Moreover, by Baptism we become members of the Body of Christ, and put on the Lord, as the Apostle bears witness, As many of you as have been baptized with Christ have put on Christ (Galatians 3:27).

104. What is the second Sacrament in the Church of Christ?

The Oil of Anointing (τὸ μύρον τοῦ χρίσματος; i.e. Chrismation) is the second Sacrament; and this had its beginning at the time when the Holy Spirit came down from Heaven and rested upon the Apostles (Acts 2:1-4), and sealed them with his divine grace, that they might preach the Faith of Christ steadfastly and without ceasing.

Of this blessing and divine assistance everyone has need who becomes a Christian; and as then the Holy Spirit came down in the visible form of fire and bestowed his grace, or Gifts, upon the Apostles, so now, when the Priest anoints (i.e. Chrismates) the newly baptized person with the holy Oil, he becomes endued from above with the Gifts of the Holy Spirit: As appears from the words which the Priest, as appointed, uses in the celebration of this Sacrament; namely, The Seal of the Gift of the Holy Spirit, Amen. As if he should say, “By the anointing of this holy Oil you are sealed and confirmed into the Gifts of the Holy Spirit, which you receive for a confirmation of your Christian faith.” Agreeable hereto are the words of the Apostle:

He who establishes us with you in Christ, and has anointed us, is God: Who has also sealed us, and given the pledge of the Spirit in our hearts. (2 Corinthians 1:21-22)

This Anointing (i.e. Chrismation), or rather the bestowing the efficacy of this Anointing, was done in the times of the Apostles by laying on of hands; according to the Scripture, Then they laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit (Acts 8:17). This was afterwards performed by Anointing with Oil, as we learn from St. Dionysius the Areopagite, who was the disciple of St. Paul (The Ecclesiastical Hierarchy, chapters 2 and 4).

105. How many things are necessary for the Sacrament?

First, It is necessary that this Oil (μύρον) be consecrated by the highest Bishop. Secondly, That it be composed of apt and fit material, such as oils, balms, and other scents. Thirdly, That immediately after Baptism the Priest do anoint the members of the baptized person which are directed to be anointed, using this form of words, The Seal of the Gift of the Holy Spirit, Amen.

Now, from this Sacrament do arise the following Fruits: First, That as by Baptism we are born again (ἀναἑννώμεθα), so by this holy Oil we are made partakers (μέτοχοι) of the Holy Spirit, we are confirmed or established in the Faith of the Lord, and immediately become ripe in the divine favor; As the Apostle teaches us:

He saved us, not by works of righteousness which we have accomplished, but according to his mercy, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Spirit, which he shed on us abundantly, through Jesus Christ our Savior. (Titus 3:5-6)

Secondly, That by the power (δύναμις) of the Holy Spirit we are so strengthened and established, that our spiritual Enemy cannot, by any means, hurt our souls.

Lastly, This Sacrament may not again be repeated unless it be unto those who, having renounced the Name of Christ, return again unto the profession of his true Faith.

106. What is the third Sacrament?

The holy Eucharist, or the Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, under the beholding (ὑποκάτο εἰς τὴν θεωρίαν; Latin: sub visibili specie) of bread and wine: Wherein, according to the thing itself (ἤγουν κατὰ τὸ πρᾶγμα), Jesus Christ is truly and principally present (ἀληθῶς καὶ κυρίως παρών).

This Sacrament is in an eminent degree above all the other Sacraments, and conduces unto our salvation in a more, especial manner than they all do; for in this Sacrament the whole grace and benefits of our Lord Jesus are manifested and imparted to all the faithful; as will more fully appear hereafter.

107. What is to be observed in this Mystery?

First, That no one presume to administer this Sacrament, on any occasion whatsoever, although ever so urgent; but only a Priest lawfully ordained.

Secondly, It must be provided, that where the Priest is to celebrate this Sacrament, there be a fit and proper Altar, or at least a consecrated antimension (ἀντιμίσιον), without one of which he may not, by any means, offer the bloodless Sacrifice (τὴν ἀναίμακτον θυσίαν).

Thirdly, Let him take heed that he be provided with the proper necessaries, namely, the purest leavened bread, made of wheat, and the purest wine, unmixed with any other liquor: whereto, in the time of celebration, let water be added; that the Scripture may be fulfilled, which says, One of the soldiers pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood and water (John 19:34).

Fourthly, In the moments of consecration of the holy Gifts, the Priest must firmly and undoubtingly resolve within himself that the substance or essence (οὐσία) of the bread and the substance or essence (οὐσία) of the wine are changed (μεταβάλλεται) into the substance or essence of the true Body and Blood of Christ (εἰς τὴν οὐσίαν τοῦ ἀληθινοῦ σώματος και αἵματος τοῦ Χριστοῦ), by the operation or working of the Holy Spirit (διὰ τῆς ἐνεργείς τοῦ ἁγίου Πνεύματος), whose power and influence let the Priest invoke (ἐπίκλησιν) in these words, in order to the due performance of this Sacrament:

O Lord, send down from Heaven your Holy Spirit upon us, and upon these Gifts here offered; and make this Bread the precious Body of your Christ, and that which is in this Cup the precious Blood of your Christ, changing (μεταβαλών) them by your Holy Spirit.

At these words there is wrought a change in the substance or essence of the elements (μετουσίωσις; Latin: Transsubstantiatio), and the bread becomes truly the Body of Christ, and the wine truly his Blood; the species (τὰ εἴδη) only remaining, which are perceived by the sight.

This is so, in the first place, that we might not behold the Body of Christ with our Eyes, but by faith, only, believe it to be so; because Christ said, This is my Body and This is my Blood, depending and trusting rather in the words and power of our Lord than on our own senses; and so becoming partakers of the blessing which is the reward of faith, Blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed (John 20:29).

And furthermore, secondly, because that human nature would abhor and be shocked at the eating of raw flesh; and yet, nevertheless, by the partaking of the Body and Blood of Christ in this Mystery, a Christian is most closely united with Christ. Therefore, to the end that our weak nature might not abominate and reject this necessary partaking, the divine goodness has taken this method to familiarise and conciliate it unto us, and imparts unto the faithful the very Body and the very Blood of Christ for food and drink, under the clothing of bread and wine (ὑποκάτω εἰς τὸ ἒνδυμα τοῦ ἂρτου καὶ τοῦ οἲνου). (Hereof St. Gregory of Nyssa and St. John of Damascus fully treat.)[129]

Moreover, the Communion of this Sacrament ought to be alike received and partaken by the clergy and the laity, by the Priest and the People, in both kinds; namely, of both the bread and the wine. For so Christ commanded, without making any distinction:

Except you eat the flesh of the Son of Man, and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. ... Whoso eats my flesh, and drinks my blood, abides in me, and I in him. (John 6:53-54, 56)

Wherefore the holy Apostles have delivered this Mystery unto others, as they themselves received it of Christ; namely, to the joint and equal use of both lay persons and persons in the Priesthood; and in both kinds, both of the bread and of the wine: As St. Paul writes to the Corinthians:

For I received of the Lord that which I also delivered unto you; that the Lord Jesus, in the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread; and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, “Take, eat; this is my body, which is broken for you; do this in remembrance of me.” After the same manner, also, he took the cup, after supper, saying, “This cup is the New Covenant in my blood; do this, as often as you drink of it, in remembrance of me.” (1 Corinthians 11:23)

Furthermore, the honor which is due to these awful Mysteries ought to be the same and equal to that which is rendered to Christ himself, and as St. Peter, speaking in the name of all the Apostles, and, as it were, with their mouth, said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God (Matthew 16:16); so we, in like manner worshipping him, do profess, saying:

I believe, O Lord, and I confess, that you are truly the Christ, the Son of the living God, who came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am first.

This holy Sacrament is also offered as a sacrifice (θυσία) for all Orthodox Christians, both among the living and those who have fallen asleep in hope of a joyful resurrection; and this sacrifice (θυσία) shall never fail, nor be discontinued, even unto the end of the world.

The Chief Fruits of the Eucharist.

First, A commemoration (ἀνάμνησις) of the sinless suffering (τοῦ ἀναμαρτήτου πάθους) and death (καὶ τοῦ θανάτου) of Christ;[130] As says the Scripture, As often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death till he comes (1 Corinthians 11:26).

Secondly, This Sacrament is a propitiation (ἱλασμός) and reconciliation (καλοσύνημα; Latin: propitatio reconciliatioque) with God (πρὸς τὸν Θὲον), for our sins, both of the living and also of the dead: Wherefore the holy Liturgy is never without prayers and supplications made unto God for our sins.

Thirdly, The devout Christian, who is frequently present at this Sacrifice (θυσίαν) and Sacrament of Communion (κοινωνᾷ τοῦ μυστηρίου), is hereby delivered from the temptations and snares of the Devil; for that Enemy of the soul cannot prevail against him whom he finds to have Christ abiding in him.

Lastly, A man should rightly prepare himself for the receiving of this dread Mystery, according to the precepts of our Orthodox Church; namely, by a sincere confession of his sins, by fasting and mortification, by a perfect reconciliation with all persons, and the like.

108. What is the fourth Mystery?

Holy Orders, or the Priesthood; and this is twofold — the one spiritual, the other sacramental.

Of the former, namely, the spiritual Priesthood, all Christians in general are equally endowed, and do exercise it in common, according to that saying of St. Peter the Apostle, But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God’s own possession (1 Peter 2:9). And St. John, in Revelation:

You were slain, and have redeemed us to God by your blood, out of every tribe and tongue, and people and nation; and have made us unto our God kings and priests. (Revelation 5:9)

And accordingly as this priesthood is, so are its offerings; namely, prayers, thanksgiving, mortification of the flesh, voluntary sufferings of martyrdom for Christ, and such like; to which the Apostle St. Peter exhorts us:

You also, as living stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God, by Jesus Christ. (1 Peter 2:5)

Also St. Paul:

I exhort you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your rational worship. (Romans 12:1)

109. What, then, is the sacramental priesthood?

The Priesthood, which is a Sacrament (μυστήριον), is that which Christ committed to his Apostles; which is continued down unto this day, by their laying on of hands, and by the laying on of hands of the Bishops, who are the successors of the Apostles, to dispense the divine Sacraments (θείων μυστηρίων), and to perform the ministry of the salvation of mankind. Thus says the Apostle, Let a man so account of us as of the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God (1 Corinthians 4:1).

Now, this Stewardship is twofold. First, it contains the power of absolving men from their sins, as we read in St. Matthew, Whatsoever you shall loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven (Matthew 18:18). Secondly, it contains the authority and power to teach (ἡ ἐξουσία καὶ ἡ δύναμις τοῦ διδάσκειν); as it is delivered unto us in these Words:

Go therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit: Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. (Matthew 28:19-20)

From hence it is manifest that Christ sent forth the Apostles to preach the Gospel; and again, the Apostles afterwards sent forth others, whom they ordained to this work by the laying on of their hands; according to St. Luke, Then they laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit (Acts 8:17). And again:

As they ministered (λειτουργέω) unto the Lord (that is, while they offered the unbloody Sacrifice to God), and fasted, the Holy Spirit said, “Separate to me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them”; and when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. (Acts 13:2-3)

Also St. Paul, Lay hands suddenly on no man (1 Timothy 5:22). By this kind of ordination (τὴν χειροτονίαν) and uninterrupted succession (τὴν διαδοχὴιν τὴν μηδέποτε διακοπεῖσαν), those who are sent forth unto this work have the power to teach the saving doctrines (τὰ σωτηριώδη δόγματα); as says St. Paul, How shall they preach unless they are sent? (Romans 10:15)

110. What is to be regarded in this Sacrament?

Those who are admitted to this Sacrament must be first thoroughly examined and tried, that they be qualified in three particulars.

First, That they have a good and clear conscience, so that they are free from all those sins which render them incapable of receiving ordination.

Secondly, That they are adorned with knowledge and wisdom, both in dispensing the holy Mysteries, as also in edifying the common people by their teaching.

Thirdly, That they be sound and perfect in all their limbs and members; which are necessary toward a due discharge of their function.

111. Are there any degrees prior to the rank of the priesthood?

The priesthood includes all prior ranks in itself; nevertheless, they ought all to be given in their due order; namely, the Lector, or Reader; the Chanter, or Singer; the Lampadary, or he who lights the lamps; the Sub-Deacon; the Deacon; as more at large is declared in the Euchologion, where it directs concerning these things.

However, it is enough at present, with relation to teaching this orthodox confession, to note that it is the duty of the Bishop, that unto whatsoever degree of holy Orders he does admit any person, he do clearly and plainly instruct such person in the duties of that office which is committed to him, whether it be presiding at the the divine Liturgy, or reading the Gospel, or the Epistle, or carrying the sacred utensils, or cleaning the Church building. For each degree is distinguished from another by its own peculiar signs; and this is to be explained and taught them by the Bishop.

112. What is the fifth Sacrament?

The fifth Sacrament is Repentance (μετάνοια), which is a true and thorough sorrow in the heart for the sin that a person has been guilty of, and which he confessed unto the Priest, his spiritual father, with a full purpose of performing the penance (ἐπιτιμήσει) given by him, and a steadfast resolution to amend his life for the future.

This Mystery is most complete, and does then most fully benefit us, when, according to the constitution and customs (τὴν τάξιν καὶ ζυνήθειαν) of the Church, absolution or forgiveness (συγχώρησίν) of sins is granted by the Priest. For so soon as any person receives the absolution of his sins, they are all forthwith pardoned by God, through the ministration of the Priest: According to the Words of Christ, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven; and if you retain the sins of any, they are retained (John 20:22-23).

113. What is to be observed in this Mystery?

First, It is requisite that the repentant (μετανοῶν) be a Christian of the Orthodox and catholic faith; for that repentance which is destitute of a right faith is no repentance, nor is it acceptable with God.

Secondly, That the Confessor who hears and receives the repentance of Christians be also, himself, Orthodox; for an heretic and an apostate has no power of absolution.

Thirdly, It is necessary that the repentant have a contrite heart and a serious sorrow for his sins, whereby he has provoked God to anger or injured his neighbor. Concerning which contrition David said, A broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise (Psalm 51:17).

This contrition of heart ought to be followed by an exact and particular confession, in words, of all sins and misdeeds; for the spiritual father cannot absolve where he knows of nothing to absolve; neither can he lay on or impose due penance (ἐπιτίμιον).

The holy Scripture manifestly speaks of this confession, And many that believed came, and confessed, and showed their deeds (Acts 19:18). And elsewhere, Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that you may be healed (James 5:16). And:

And there went out unto him all the land of Judea, and they 0f Jerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the River Jordan, confessing their sins. (Mark 1:5)

Now, this confession ought to have these properties, namely, that whenever it is exercised it be humble, devout, truthful, sincere, accusing itself with grief and mourning.

The fourth part of repentance is the penitential rule (κανόνας) and the restorative penalty (ἐπιτίμιον), which the Confessor defines and appoints (δίδῃ καὶ διορίζῃ; Latin: definit et imponit); of which kind are prayer, charitable giving, fastings, pilgrimages to holy places, prostrations, and the like; as the spiritual father judges to be proper.

And let him who departs from Confession, having obtained Absolution, apply to himself what the author of the Psalms says, Eschew evil, and do good (Psalm 34:14). And also that which our Savior says, Behold you are made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come upon you (John 5:14). And again, Go, and sin no more (John 8:11).

But, forasmuch as it is impossible that a man should altogether and entirely avoid sin, the pious Christian must, according to the best of his understanding and ability, endeavour, from confession to confession, to amend his life to the utmost of his power.

114. What are the fruits of this Mystery?

The first benefit which we receive is that, whereas by sin we are deprived of that innocence we obtained in Baptism, now, by Repentance, we approach nearer to that state.

And as, by sin, we had forfeited the divine grace, now, by Repentance, we regain it: And, having become the slaves of the Devil by sin, by Repentance we are made free.

Lastly, as fear and dread entered into our consciences through sin, so now, by Repentance, we are restored to peace and courage, such as children are wont to have towards their parents.

115. What is the sixth Mystery?

Honorable Marriage, which, in the first place, is made by the mutual consent and agreement of a man and woman (τοῦ ἀνδρὸς καὶ τῆς γυναικὸς) with each other, where there is no lawful impediment to hinder it.

However, this consent, alone, does not make the bond of marriage, unless the same persons do confirm their espousals, by a mutual testimony before a Priest, and by pledging their faith, each to the other, with joined hands, that they will be faithful to and honor each other; that they will love each other with all conjugal affection, in all states and conditions of life; and that they will never forsake each other, unto the end of their lives.

Secondly, This, their consent and promise, is confirmed and hallowed by the Priest; as it is written, Marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled (Hebrews 13:4).

116. What are the fruits of this Mystery?

First, That a person might hereby be preserved from the danger of fornication and intemperance (τῆς πορνείας καὶ ἀκρασίας): For honorable Marriage was, therefore, instituted that the fire of lust might thereby be extinguished; according to St. Paul, To avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife, and let every woman have her own husband (1 Corinthians 7:2).

Secondly, That is deservedly to be honored, whereby the procreation of children is honestly provided for.

Thirdly, That in sickness, or any other distress, the husband might be to the wife, and the wife unto the husband, a faithful companion and helpmate, because of that especial affection and strict bond of love wherewith they are united. As testifies the Scripture, For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall hold fast unto his own wife, and they shall be one flesh (Genesis 2:24).

117. What is the seventh Mystery of the Church?

The Anointing of the Sick (εὐχέλαιον, literally prayer-oil). This was instituted by Christ himself, for when he sent out his Disciples two by two, They anointed with oil many that were sick, and healed them (Mark 6:13). The same was afterwards received by the universal Church, for a solemn custom, as appears from the Epistle of St. James:

If any be sick among you, let him call for the Elders of the Church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil, in the name of the Lord; and the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he has committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. (James 5:14-15)

118. What is to be observed in this Mystery?

First, That this Mystery, and all belonging unto it, be only performed by Priests, and none others.

Secondly, That the oil be pure, and not prepared with any mixtures; and that the sick person be an Orthodox Christian; and, also, that he have, beforehand, confessed all his sins unto his spiritual father.

Thirdly, That while the anointing is being administered, that prayer be repeated wherein the power and efficacy of this Mystery is expounded.

119. What are the fruits of this Mystery?

We are taught by St. James, in the place last mentioned (James 5:14-15), what are the fruits and benefits of this Mystery; namely, the forgiveness of sins, or the healing of the soul, and the restoring of health unto the body. And, however, although this latter is not always obtained, yet, nevertheless, the forgiveness of sins is always most assuredly thereby received.

c3FU

The Eleventh Article: Of the General Resurrection.

120. What is the Eleventh Article of the Faith?

I look for the Resurrection of the Dead.

121. What does this Article of the Faith teach?

It teaches the undoubted and most certain Resurrection (ἀνάστασις) of the human body (τῶν ἀνθρωπίνων σομάτων); of the good, and also of the wicked: according to the word of the Lord, saying:

All who are in the graves shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life (ζωή); and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of judgment (κρίσις). (John 5:28-29)

And they shall arise with the same bodies which they lived with before in this world; according to that of Job:

I know that my Redeemer lives, and that at the last he shall stand upon the earth; and though after my skin is destroyed, yet in my flesh shall I see God: Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another, though my within me my heart wither. (Job 19:25-27)

But this body (σῶμα), which will, verily, as we have said, be the selfsame one which was laid down in the grave — this body shall be raised, incorruptible and immortal; As says St. Paul:

We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet; for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. (1 Corinthians 15:51-53)

We are, moreover, to understand that the soul of every one shall return into its own body (σῶμα), and, together with it, shall receive the full and everlasting reward of its works.[131] The bodies of the wicked, also, shall be made immortal (ἀθάνατα), to receive eternal tormenting punishment (κολάζεσθαι αἰωνίως; Latin: aeternis discrucianda suppliciis).

122. What more does this Article teach?

It teaches every Christian to ever bear constantly in mind these four things — Death, the Last Judgment, the Torments of Hades, and, lastly, the everlasting Kingdom of Heaven.[132]

123. What benefit shall a man receive by being mindful of these four things?

Constant reflection on these things will beget devotion, watchfulness against sin, fear of God, fear of Hades’ torments (ᾅδην γεένης; Latin: geennae infernae; i.e. Hell’s fire), and love for Heaven’s Kingdom.

And whosoever duly considers these things will undoubtedly take care to prepare himself for the world to come: For, by thinking on that Last Day wherein the whole world shall be judged, he will be mindful to make himself ready for the account which he must then give of all his thoughts, words, and actions. The thought of Hades (ᾅδου; Latin: inferis) will quicken his endeavours to avoid it, and the consideration of Heaven’s Kingdom must excite his utmost earnestness to attain its joys.

c3GG

The Twelfth Article: Of the World to Come.

124. What is the Twelfth Article of the Faith?

And the life of the world to come.

125. What does the Church teach us in this Article of the Faith?

That in the world to come (μέλλοντα αἰῶνα), the grace and blessing of God shall be given unto the Elect; and life eternal, filled with joy and spiritual delight: As the holy Scripture testifies, Eye has not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God has prepared for them that love him (1 Corinthians 2:9). And again, to the same effect, The Kingdom of God is not food and drink, but righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit (Romans 14:17).

126. Shall the soul only, or shall the body also, together with the soul, enjoy eternal happiness?

As the soul and body jointly did good works for the hope of eternal rewards, even so shall they jointly, and not separately, receive and enjoy the same triumphant happiness and felicity.

For the joy of the soul and of the body are not distinct and different things, but the same; and, therefore, as the body shall be glorified, so the whole man, both soul and body, shall be made glorious; and shall be made like the Angels, and equal unto them: According to the Scripture, which says, In the Resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the Angels of God in Heaven (Matthew 22:30).

The body shall be glorious, immortal, incorruptible, not needing food or drink; and the soul shall be the same: As says the Scripture:

The dead shall be raised, incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. (1 Corinthians 15:52-53)

Now, this joint felicity will consist in contemplating the most blessed Trinity, and in bearing a delightful part in the spiritual harmony of the angelic chorus: According to the Apostle, Now we see as through a glass, darkly; but then face to face. Now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known (1 Corinthians 13:12).

Now, whereas the Lord said unto Moses, There shall no man see my face and live (Exodus 33:20), this is to be understood of this present life, and of this corruptible body, not as yet glorified; and before that ultimate and most perfect redemption.

But after that complete glorification, in the future and eternal life, after the Day of Judgment, God will so clothe us with Light, that we shall be able to behold the Light of God: According to the Psalmist, With you is the Fountain of Life, and in your Light shall we see Light (Psalm 36:9). And this Light, as it shall be plainly and fully beheld, will entirely satisfy us, and gratify, to the utmost, all our desires of wisdom and beauty. For all good is contained in the contemplation and profession of the supreme Good; and the perfection of happiness, in the complete enjoyment of it: As the divine Psalmist declares, I shall appear in righteousness before your face: I shall be satisfied when your glory appears (Psalm 16:15 LXX).

c3H7

Part II: Of Hope.

127. What is hope?

Hope is a true confidence in God, bestowed on the heart of man by the divine enlightening and inspiration, that he might never despair of God’s grace and favor in granting his petitions, whether they be for pardon of his sins, or for any other spiritual or temporal good. Concerning which the Apostle says thus, Cast not away, therefore, your confidence, which has great reward (Hebrews 10:35). And elsewhere:

We are saved in this hope; but hope that is seen is not hope; for why does one still hope for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, then we, through patience, wait eagerly for it. (Romans 8:24-25)

128. Whence have we this sure and certain hope?

All our hope is in the Lord Jesus Christ; as the Apostle says, By the commandment of God our Savior, and the Lord Jesus Christ our hope (1 Timothy 1:1). Because from him we receive all things: as Christ himself teaches, Whatsoever you shall ask in my Name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son (John 14:13).

Now, hereby is to be understood the divine grace; for by Jesus Christ both grace and truth were given unto us: According to the blessed Scripture, For the Law was given by Moses, but grace and truth by Jesus Christ (John 1:17). And in this grace all our hope is founded.

We also place great confidence in the observation of God's Commands, seeing Christ has said:

He who has my commandments, and keeps them, it is he that loves me; and he that loves me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself unto him. (John 14:21)

Moreover, our hope is confirmed by the communion of the dread and most holy Mysteries; namely, of the Body and Blood of Christ; whereby the Lord himself does dwell in us: As he himself testifies, He that eats my flesh and drinks my blood dwells in me, and I in him (John 6:56).

Lastly, our faith is established by constant prayer: As we are taught by the Apostle, Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray (James 5:13). And another Apostle says:

You, beloved, building yourselves up on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. (Jude 20-21)

129. What is necessary to be considered in order to a right comprehension of this second part of the Orthodox Confession?

In this second part of the Orthodox Confession, it seems best that we should take into consideration the Lord's Prayer and the Nine beatitudes; for whatsoever we would obtain of God, we must ask both with a true and living faith, and also with hope that God will assuredly grant out petitions: According to the Apostle, Faithful is he who calls you; who also will do it (1 Thessalonians 5:24).

In like manner, through hope, we make the beatitudes ours when we exercise those virtues in the hope of obtaining the blessings which are promised as a reward for them.

Of Prayer.

130. What is Prayer?

Prayer is a certain petition offered up to God, out of an ardent faith, with the hope of obtaining that which we ask, according to his will.

Or it is thus to be defined: Prayer is a lifting up of our minds and wills to God, whereby we praise him or beseech him, or give thanks unto him for his benefits towards us.[133]

131. How ought a man to prepare himself for praying?

It is to be observed that there are three principal kinds of prayer.

First, When we give thanks to God for his benefits unto us, as the ancient people of Israel gave thanks unto God for their deliverance out of Egypt. In like manner, we ought, at all times, to give thanks for the great benefits we have received at his hands, but more especially for that he has delivered us from the bondage of the most cruel Enemy of our souls: According to the Apostle, Pray without ceasing; in everything give thanks; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you (1 Thessalonians 5:17-18). And again, I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God, which is given you by Jesus Christ (1 Corinthians 1:4). And also elsewhere:

Giving thanks unto the Father, who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light; who has delivered us from the power of darkness, and has translated us into the Kingdom of his dear Son. (Colossians 1:12-13)

The second kind of prayer is that whereby we beseech God for pardon of our sins; that is, that he would deliver us from the punishment due to them, and that he would pour out upon our souls and bodies the abundance of his holy grace. Of this kind, we offer up our prayers both for ourselves and for our neighbor; according to the Apostle:

For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that you might be filled with the knowledge of his will, in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. (Colossians 1:9)

The third kind of prayer is that wherein we praise and magnify the Lord our God for his excellent majesty and immortal glory; according to that of the holy Prophet David:

Every day will I give thanks unto you; and I will praise your Name for ever and ever. Great is the Lord, and marvellous, worthy to be praised; there is no end of his greatness. One generation shall praise your works unto another, and declare your power. (Psalm 145:2-4)

Of this kind, especially, is the Great Doxology (Glory to God in the highest, etc.) which we daily say or sing in the Church.

132. What is further necessary in order to pray?

It is requisite that when we go to pray we should rightly prepare ourselves; namely, with soberness, temperance, and reverence: As we are taught by the Apostle:

That, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. (Titus 2:12)

And also with compunction of heart, as the same Apostle says elsewhere:

Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in Psalms, and Hymns, and spiritual Songs; singing with grace in your hearts unto the Lord. (Colossians 3:16)

But all wrath and malice must be put away from him that goes to pray: According to the Scripture, If you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses (Matthew 6:15). If, therefore, there be anyone that has anything against us, we must first be reconciled unto him: According to the Scripture:

Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar, and go your way; first be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. (Matthew 5:23-24)

We must also, when we are praying, put far away from us all other thoughts but those of devotion, that our prayer may be pure and acceptable to God; lest God pronounce of us as he did of the hypocrites, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. But in vain do they worship me (Mark 7:6-7). And further, lest we be liable to that of the Psalmist, Let his prayer be turned into sin (Psalm 109:7).

c3JK

The Lord’s Prayer.

133. What is the Lord's Prayer?

Our Father, who art in Heaven;

Hallowed be Thy Name. 

Thy Kingdom come. 

Thy will be done on Earth, as it is in Heaven. 

Give us this day our daily bread, 

And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. 

And lead us not into temptation, 

But deliver us from evil. 

For thine is the Kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever, Amen.

134. Into how many Parts is the Lord's Prayer divided?

Three: (1) The Preface, or Invocation; (2) the Petitions; and (3) the Conclusion.

The Preface: God’s Heavenly Fatherhood.

135. What is the Preface, or Invocation?

Our Father, who art in Heaven.

136. What does this Invocation mean?

First, It teaches that whoso prays unto God ought to appear before him, not only as his creature, but also as his son by grace; for unless he be his son he cannot call upon God as his Father.

Now, this grace of adoption, whereby we are made the sons of God, we receive from Christ, who has bestowed it on those that believe in him: As says the Scripture, As many as received him, to them he gave power to become the sons of God (John 1:12). And elsewhere, Because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father (Galatians 4:6). And for this reason, therefore, we call God our Father.

Secondly, It is requisite that he who goes about to pray should be a son of the catholic and Orthodox Church; for whosoever has not the Church for a Mother, neither can he have God for his Father: As it is said, Tell it unto the Church; but if he refuses to hear the Church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax-collector (Matthew 18:17).

Thirdly, Let not the devout petitioner doubt but that he shall receive that which he asks for, seeing he prays unto the most indulgent and merciful, as the common Father of all: According to the Scripture, Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful (Luke 6:36), who not only does not deny us, but even does himself stir us up to ask of him, and teaches us how; and with infinite mercy accepts our prayers, provided only they be offered up with humility and sincerity: For he well knows why we ask. And the Scripture says, Your Father knows of what you have need, before you ask him (Matthew 6:8). And in another place:

If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your Father who is in Heaven give good things to them that ask him? (Matthew 7:11)

Fourthly, This Introduction, or Invocation, teaches us, that as God is the Father of us all, in like manner we, who are of the faithful, should be unto each other as brothers; and not only pray to God for ourselves, but also for our brethren, interceding for each other: According to the Scripture, Pray one for another, that you may be healed (James 5:16); namely, to God, who is our common Father; as Christ himself teaches us, Call no man your Father upon the Earth, for one is your Father which is in Heaven (Matthew 23:9). And when he beholds our brotherly love, which he so frequently recommends to us in his holy Gospel, he is both pleased with it, as a Father, and, also, more induced thereby to hear us when we pray, and to grant our petitions.

Fifthly, By these words, who art in Heaven, we are taught that when we pray we should raise our minds and thoughts wholly above all earthly and worldly things, and fix them entirely on Heaven and that which is incorruptible. Nevertheless, God, our Father, is not only in Heaven, but he is present in all places and fills all things: But whereas his grace and glory are more abundantly manifest in Heaven, it is, therefore, said to be his throne: According to that of the Psalmist, where he said, The Lord’s throne is in Heaven (Psalm 11:4), and also, The Lord has prepared his throne in Heaven, and his Kingdom rules over all (Psalm 103:19).

137. How many petitions are contained in the second part of this prayer of our Lord?

Seven.

The First Petition: God’s Hallowed Name.

138. What is the first petition in the Lord's Prayer?

Hallowed be thy Name.

139. What is contained in this petition?

First, We pray unto God that we may lead a life adorned with virtue and good works, that men may be excited to glorify the Name of God by the purity and holiness of our lives: According to that of St. Matthew, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in Heaven (Matthew 5:16).

Secondly, We ask that not only our whole lives may be to the glory of God, but also that all those who do not know the true God, nor believe in him, may repent, and come to the knowledge of him, that the Name of God be glorified, both in them and by them.

We also beseech the Lord our God, in this petition, for those who bear indeed the name of Christians, but who live ungodly and scandalous lives, whereby our holy religion and God himself is blasphemed: Of whom the Apostle says, Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof (2 Timothy 3:5). And elsewhere, The Name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you (Romans 2:24). For the Sake of these it is that, in this petition, God is besought; that such may turn from their wickedness, and bring forth good fruits, leading for the future a sober and godly life; and so the Name of God, by these means, also may be hallowed.

Moreover, we are to understand that although the Name of God is in itself most holy without our glorification, yet it is said to be hallowed by us, and in us, when by piety and holiness of life we sanctify ourselves to the glory of God's Name.

The Second Petition: God’s Kingdom Come.

140. What is the second petition?

Thy Kingdom come.

141. What is contained in this petition?

Herein we pray to God, first, that by his grace and justice and mercy he would reign in us altogether, especially in our hearts, and not suffer sin to have any dominion over us: As it is written, Let not sin, therefore, reign in your mortal body, that you should obey the lusts thereof (Romans 6:12).

Secondly, This petition expresses that a man who is in the state of grace with God, and feels the heavenly joy in his mind, cares not for this world, but is only solicitous and wishful to become an inhabitant in the heavenly Kingdom: As the Apostle, speaking of himself, says, I desire to depart and be with Christ (Philippians 1:23).

Thirdly, We beg of God that he would be pleased to hasten his Second Coming, wherein the Son of Man shall appear in his glory (Matthew 25:31), and the resurrection of the dead, and the Day of Judgment, by which the kingdom of this world and the Enemy of our souls may be taken away: and the Kingdom of Heaven come, that God may be all in all; as the Apostle speaks in 1 Corinthians 15:28.

The Third Petition: God’s Will Done.

142. What is the third petition?

Thy will he done on earth, as it is in Heaven.

143. What is contained in this third petition?

First, We beseech God that he would not suffer us to live in this world after our own wills, but that he would guide and govern us by his will and pleasure.

Secondly, We pray that neither we nor others might resist or dislike the will of God, but that, as the Angels in Heaven submit unto and obey the divine will in all things, without any delay or refusal, so, likewise, on earth, that all men may be obedient unto God without murmuring, and with all readiness and thanksgiving.

Thirdly, In this petition we express our belief that nothing can affect us, God's elect, without the divine will and permission, whether it be in relation to the holiness and innocence with which we ought to pass our lives, or to persecutions and temptations of the Enemy. Insomuch that the Lord not only takes care of our persons, but of even the very hairs of our head: According to the Scripture, Even the hairs of your head are all numbered (Luke 12:7). And again, Not a hair of your head shall perish (Luke 21:18).

The Fourth Petition: God’s Giving.

144. What is the fourth petition?

Give us this day our daily bread.

145. What is contained in this petition?

First, That divine and most excellent food of our souls, the Word of God, is here meant; concerning which the Scripture thus teaches us, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God (Matthew 4:4). We therefore ask of God that he would keep us from want and famine of his holy Word; that is, the doctrine of Christ, without which doctrine our inward man would surely die, as if it were perished of hunger. Therefore we very properly, in this petition, remember that death of the soul which befalls those who refuse or neglect to hear the Word of God and divine instruction, and thereby set the bad example of an ill life.

Secondly, Herein is included that other food of our souls, namely, the Communion of the Body and Blood of Christ; for so the Lord has spoken concerning it:

My flesh is food indeed, and my blood is drink indeed: whosoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood, he abides in me, and I in him. (John 6:55-56)

Wherefore, that we may worthily partake of this food, we do, in this petition, beseech God that, out of his mercy and favor to mankind, he would be pleased to bestow himself upon us. And when we have these two kinds of food, then we have the Kingdom of God within us (Luke 17:21); and then God, of his own accord, will give unto us all such temporal and worldly things as the weakness and poverty of our mortal condition make necessary for us: As it is written, Seek first the Kingdom of God, and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you (Matthew 6:33).

Thirdly, Under the name of bread, in this petition, are comprehended all things which are necessary for us in this present life, both with regard to our substance and our preservation.

However, let every one remember that superfluities and luxury are not hereby prayed for, but only a just and proper sufficiency; for those things which minister unto our voluptuousness, and are the instruments of sensuality, are no other than the seeds of misery and punishment. Whereof the Apostle, St. Paul, thus speaks, Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in lewdness and lust (Romans 13:13). And elsewhere, Having food and clothing, let us be content with these (1 Timothy 6:8).

Now, by the words this day is to be understood this present life, while we continue in this world; for in that which is to come we shall enjoy the very presence and sight of God, and the happiness arising therefrom.

The Fifth Petition: God’s Forgiveness.

146. What is the fifth petition?

And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those that trespass against us.

147. What is contained in this petition?

First, We do, in this petition, ask of God that he would forgive us our sins, especially those which we have committed since our Baptism; as well mortal sins as all others whereby we have offended God and our neighbor; by thought only or by a full design and intention of sin, or by words, or by actions.

Secondly, Whereas in this petition we say, Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those that trespass against us, now we do hereby engage our faith that we will also forgive our enemies. He, therefore, who does not forgive his neighbor, whatsoever he has committed against him, let him not use this petition; for he may not hope to have his sins forgiven. Nay, further, his very prayer will become a sin, according to the Psalmist, Let his prayer be turned into sin (Psalm 109:7). And truly with justice, for if we will not forgive our brethren their trifling offences against us, how can it be expected that God should forgive our sins against him, which will bear no comparison to the trespasses which we resent to our brethren; seeing we are daily, nay hourly, giving just cause for God's anger against us?

The Sixth Petition: God’s Leading.

148. What is the sixth petition?

And lead us not into temptation.

149. What is contained in this petition?

First, We pray to God that we may be free from all temptation; but if not from all, at least from those which exceed our strength.

Of these, some arise from the world, some from the Devil, and some from our own flesh, and entice us to sin. Again, others are inflicted by tyrants who solicit and harass the Church of God by erroneous doctrines, by deceitful flatteries and falsehood, by pretended miracles, by the allurements of promised riches and honors; in fine, by tyrannical force and persecutions; by open violence and robbery, and despoiling us of our possessions, and by loading us with shame and reproach. All which we woefully see in these our days.

Secondly, We beseech God, in this petition, that if we be called to pour out our blood, or to lay down our lives, for his most holy Name's sake, for the holy Church, which is his Spouse, and for the truth of the Gospel: That then he would be pleased to strengthen us, and support us with his grace, whereby we might be enabled to endure and overcome the most unusual or excessive torments with constancy and resolution, and obtain the crown of martyrdom in Heaven; and that he would be pleased not to let us suffer things greater than we can bear.

The Seventh Petition: God’s Delivering.

150. What is the seventh petition?

But deliver us from evil.

151. What is contained in this petition?

First, We herein pray to God to deliver us from all kinds of evil, especially from sin, and from all wickedness that provokes the wrath of God.

Secondly, That his grace might accompany us, and keep us from falling into his wrath, That he would not rebuke us in his anger (θυμῷ), neither chasten us in his wrath (ὀργῇ) (Psalm 6:1 LXX), for our sins; but that we might, Come before his presence with thanksgiving, and show ourselves glad in him with psalms (Psalm 95:2).

Fourthly, In this petition we also pray that we may be delivered from all sorts of evil and mischiefs whatsoever that are hard and difficult to be borne by the children of men: Such as famine, pestilence, war, fire, and such like. All which we hereby beseech God to turn away from us, and to grant us his merciful loving-kindness.

Fifthly, More especially we pray that in the hour of death he would protect us from all insults of the Enemy of our souls, and that he would give us grace to fight piously and securely under the protection of his favor, and the guide and safeguard of his Angels. For whosoever departs out of life in such a manner, that person is undoubtedly happy. It therefore behoves us, in the highest degree, that we should all most earnestly ask of God that we may be defended from the temptations and assaults of the Devil in our last moments.

Lastly, We pray, in this petition, that we may be delivered from the Devil and torments of Hell.

The Conclusion: God’s Sovereign Glory.

152. What is the third part of the Lord's Prayer?

This Conclusion: For thine is the Kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever; Amen.

153. What is contained in this part, the Conclusion?

This Conclusion is twofold, in the first part corresponding to the Invocation. For as that makes us hope that we shall certainly obtain what we ask of God as we ought, since he is our Father of whom we ask it; so this Conclusion teaches to expect that our proper petition will be granted, because the whole universe belongs to our Father. He is the King of the whole world. To him all created things are subject. His is the power, and the glory, too, is his; which power and glory nothing can resist, whether in heaven or on earth. He, therefore, can assuredly give us all things, whatsoever we ask with faith and hope; for this cause only, the eternal glory of his Name: As it is expressed in these words, And the glory, for ever.

The second part of this Conclusion is the word Amen; in which word we pray that whatsoever we have asked may be granted unto us according to our desire: As the Apostle says:

This is the confidence that we have in him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petition that we desired of him. (1 John 5:14-15)

154. Is this Conclusion united to the Lord's Prayer?

It is certain that Christ himself, concluding his prayer, which he taught us, ends with these words; as appears from St. Matthew’s Gospel (Matthew 6:13).[134]

And the sense of them shows plainly that they are no ways inconsistent with the Lord's Prayer; rather that the prayer is greatly strengthened and perfected by them, seeing it is that God we call upon, whose power extends over the whole universe, and unto whom all things are subject.

And although lay persons do not use this conclusion, that hinders not, but that in the public prayers of the Church, and in private devotions, where a Priest is present, he should use them for adding the greater weight unto his prayer. Neither will it be amiss for a lay person to use them, if no Priest be present, any more than it would for him to recite any other part of the Gospel.

And it were better never to separate these words from the Lord's Prayer, it being evident that the Church orders them to be pronounced by the Priest only in the public divine services, only for the sake of adding the greater solemnity to this devotion.

c3P2

The Beatitudes.

155. Forasmuch as the beatitudes do very much establish and confirm our faith, I pray, what are they?

The beatitudes, which our Lord Christ has taught us in the fifth chapter of St. Matthew’s Gospel, are nine in number; on which St. Chrysostom thus comments, Moses delivered Ten Commandments, but Jesus, the Lord of Moses, gave Nine beatitudes.[135] And again, The Law gave unto us the Ten Commandments, but Jesus the Nine beatitudes, forming thereby a thrice threefold crown.

The First Beatitude: Poor in Spirit.

156. What is the first beatitude?

Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.

157. What doctrine does this beatitude contain?

It relates to riches and the good things of this world; which, if it please God to bestow them on us, we should use, not as if they were our own, but as only being the stewards and dispensers of them, and not give ourselves up to great anxiousness or to covetousness: As we are admonished by the holy Psalmist, If riches increase, set not your heart upon them (Psalm 62:10).

We ought to imitate the ancient Christian perfection, and have nothing distinct, but all things in common: After the example of those Christians who lived in the infancy of the Church, of whom the Scripture testifies:

The multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul; and no one said that any of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common. (Acts 4:32)

And after:

Nor were there any among them that lacked; for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the proceeds of the things that were sold, and laid them down at the Apostles’ feet; and distribution was made unto every man according as he had need. (Acts 4:34-35)

And again, All that believed were together, and had all things in common (Acts 2:44).

It is this virtue that is called poverty of spirit. However, it is requisite and allowable that everyone retain to himself so much as is necessary for his due and proper support and accommodation, without luxury and extravagance.

In this virtue the monks and religious are deservedly allowed to excel, seeing they are not to be careful for anything as their own, not even for necessary food and clothing; but they suffer the want of all things with patience, in hopes of greater rewards in Heaven: Having before their eyes the words of the Apostle:

Even unto this present hour we both hunger and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and have no certain dwelling-place; and labor, working with our own hands: being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we suffer it; being defamed, we entreat; we are made as the filth of the world, the offscouring of all things, even unto now. (1 Corinthians 4:11-13)

For sufferings like these Christ offers the Kingdom of Heaven as a reward.

Nevertheless, such as do possess wealth, gained innocently and with justice, will also be partakers of salvation and eternal life, provided they possess their riches in righteousness; namely, if they use them for the relief of the necessities of the Church, in charitable giving to the poor, the stranger, the sick, and whosoever is in need. In like manner as Zacchceus did unto Christ himself when he spoke unto him thus:

Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have taken any thing from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. (Luke 19:8)

But excessive spenders, who by overindulgence and extravagance are reduced to extreme poverty, are in no sort the object of this beatitude, such poverty being rather the proper punishment of their prodigality and unjust abuse of what they had. Nevertheless, they are not to be rejected from the charitable giving of good men, and if they reform and practise the virtues of poverty, they will also receive the reward of this beatitude from God.

The Second Beatitude: Mourning Sin.

158. What is the second beatitude? 

Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.

159. What does this beatitude teach?

First, It teaches that those of the faithful are blessed who through their whole lives mourn and weep for their old sins and offences, whereby they have offended God and their neighbor; according to the words of the Prophet Jeremiah:

The children of Israel shall come, they and the children of Judah shall come together: With continual weeping they shall come and seek the Lord their God (Jeremiah 50:4).

But they have no part in this beatitude who mourn and weep only because of some worldly grief or misfortune. Nor they who, when they are condemned to suffer the just punishment due to their crimes, weep and mourn; not because they have sinned, but because of the fear of their just punishments which they must undergo for them. Nor they, likewise, who are concerned only on account of having lost some perishable thing or other, and the like.

Secondly, This beatitude teaches us that those are blessed who, with unfeigned sorrow, and tears shed for the sins of others, appease the wrath of God towards them, and pour forth their prayers before him that he would vouchsafe unto them the grace to repent of their sins: Namely, that he would bring back heretics to the Communion of the Church, and that he would convert the wicked from their evil and irregular lives to a sober and orderly course of life.

Thirdly, By this beatitude we are taught that those are blessed who are oppressed by the great and powerful ones of the world, and unjustly despoiled of their goods: Which sufferings they may not endeavour to revenge, but with pain of heart and mourning, pray to God for deliverance and safety, placing all their hope and confidence in God’s mercy, which they shall receive together with abundance of consolation, being therein rightly and truly partakers of the divine grace.

Those also are included in this beatitude who are afflicted for the Orthodox Faith and the sake of the Church: Such are all martyrs and the like.

The Third Beatitude: Meek.

160. What is the third beatitude?

Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.

161. What does this beatitude teach?

This beatitude teaches us, First, That we should yield a ready and sincere obedience, with this virtue of meekness and humility, to God and the Church of Christ, and also to our superiors, following the example of Jesus Christ, our most meek Lord. And when we give this obedience to our superiors, we should propose within ourselves that it is to Christ, and for his sake. So we should also refer to Christ the respect and reverence which we show to his Priests, our spiritual pastors.

Secondly, This beatitude teaches us that they are blessed who are not grievous or troublesome to any man; who do not rob people of their good name, and are not criticizers and condemners of others; but esteeming themselves as the lowest, are always ready to condemn their own life and actions, and think of their own good deeds as unclean and unworthy.

However, if those whose duty it is to reprove others should, through the warmth of their zeal, use some harsh expressions in correcting a sinner, not out of contempt or spitefulness, but for the good of his spiritual welfare, such a one is not, however, exempted from this beatitude, seeing he does that which is his duty: As the Apostle teaches:

Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, you which are spiritual restore such a one in the spirit of meekness; watching yourself, lest you also be tempted. (Galatians 6:1)

But if anyone says that it is not possible for a mortal man thus to subdue his anger, let such a one know that he ought not pour out his wrath and anger on his neighbor, but on the Devil, who is the tempter and instigator of men to all kinds of evil.

Those, therefore, who are endued with this virtue shall receive the promised inheritance of the earth, an abundance of God's goodness in this life, and eternal happiness in that which is to come: According to the Scripture, which says, I believe that I shall see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living (Psalm 27:13).

The Fourth Beatitude: Hungry for Righteousness.

162. What is the fourth beatitude?

Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled.

163. What does this beatitude teach?

It teaches us that they are blessed who, having sustained an injury, cannot obtain redress from justice, either because of their religion or their poverty; or for want of health, or because they are strangers; or for that their adversary is too powerful, or through any other unjust cause.

Wherefore those who are set in the seat of justice, and whose office it is to judge, ought to be most conscientious and careful that the poor, the widow, and the orphan be not oppressed with unrighteous judgment, remembering what the Scripture says unto them, Learn to do well, seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow (Isaiah 1:17). Which duties if they neglect, then those who suffer oppression are said to hunger and thirst after justice or righteousness, and they are the objects of this beatitude. And unto these unjust judges God will render severe punishment: According to the Scripture:

Lord, you have heard the desire of the poor; you, prepare their heart, and your ear hearkens thereunto. To give justice to the fatherless and poor, that the man of the earth be no more exalted against them. (Psalm 10:17-18)

The Fifth Beatitude: Merciful.

164. What is the fifth beatitude?

Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy.

165. What does this beatitude teach us?

That they are blessed who discharge the duties of mercy.

The Works of Mercy.

166. What are the works of mercy?

The works of mercy are twofold, some regarding the soul, and others relating to the body (Blessed Theophylact, Commentary on Matthew, chapter 25).

Seven of the Body.

167. What are those offices of humanity which respect the body?

They are seven.

Giving food to the hungry. 

Giving drink to the thirsty. 

Clothing the naked. 

Visiting those in prison. 

Visiting the sick. 

Giving hospitality. 

Burying the dead. 

168. What is the first corporal act of mercy?

The first corporal act of mercy is to give food to the hungry, according to the saying of Christ, I was hungry, and you gave me food (Matthew 25:35). To those, namely, who are in necessity, and who could not supply their needs by their own labor.

And for the discharge of this duty we must use what we have earned by our labor, or otherwise gotten with honesty: As the Scripture teaches us, Honor the Lord with your wealth, and with the first fruits of all your harvest (Proverbs 3:9).

But we are not to confine our charitable giving to those only who apply to us for them publicly in the streets, nor yet to those only who lie sick in the public hospital, but we must also extend them to those who, through modesty, or any other impediment, cannot ask for our alms. And we must be cautious, to the utmost, that these our good deeds may be as secret as possible, lest we receive our reward in the praises of men: According to the words of our Lord Christ:

When you do a charitable deed, do not sound a trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward. (Matthew 6:2)

169. What is the second corporal act of mercy?

The second corporal act of mercy is to give drink to the thirsty; namely, to those who, through poverty or bodily disability, cannot produce wherewithal to quench their thirst.

And hereby is meant and intended all sorts of drink, insomuch that whoso gives only a cup of cold water to him that has need of water, the same shall be a partaker of this beatitude: According to what our Savior himself said in the Scripture:

Whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my Name, because you belong to Christ, truly I say to you, he shall not lose his reward. (Mark 9:41)

In this duty are included all those services and good offices of any kind that are done on behalf of the poor and needy: Those, namely, who cannot by their own labor and care provide for the necessities of hunger and thirst.

170. What is the third corporal work of mercy?

The third corporal work of mercy is to clothe the naked. Those obtain this beatitude who, with a benevolent mind toward their fellow-creatures, relieve them in their distress and clothe those who are destitute of garments.

Unto such will Christ, at the Day of Judgment, render a reward, and say unto them, Come, you blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the beginning of the world (Matthew 25:34).

And hereby, not only those are meant who are destitute of all clothing, but also those whose clothing is not sufficient to defend them from cold. And they, likewise, who, through hard fortune, scarcely can support themselves through the want of proper clothes, to whom the merciful will render the offices of humanity, and supply their necessities with suitable necessaries, to protect them from the injuries of weather.

171. What is the fourth corporal work of mercy?

The fourth corporal work of mercy is to visit those who are in prison. In the discharge of which duty let him not be anxious whether the person deserved or not to be cast into prison, or who he be: For whosoever he be, or whatever his crime, nevertheless we owe this duty to him for the sake of Christ our Lord; and we must visit and comfort him, lest he fall into despair.

172. What is the fifth corporeal work of mercy?

The fifth corporeal work of mercy is that we should visit the sick. And we must discharge this duty without inquiring whether the sick person be our neighbor, or friend, or kindred, or acquaintance; for it is incumbent on us to visit those who are sick, although utterly unknown to us, especially those who are ill in the public hospital.

First, We should comfort the sick, by expressing our concern for his distress.

Secondly, By exhorting the sick to bear his afflictions patiently, and that he should receive his visitation of the Lord without murmuring or discontent; but rather that he should with his heart and voice give thanks unto God, who thus expresses his favor and kindness towards him, and firmly rest his trust on God's mercy for being restored to health.

Moreover, we should induce the sick person to confess his sins with a broken and contrite heart, and to receive the blessed Sacrament of the Eucharist, and the Anointing of the Sick, as the Church directs. For these Mysteries not only in many ways promote the salvation of the soul, but also contribute to the healing of the body.

Furthermore, we should offer up our prayers to God for them, and also recommend them to the public prayers of the Church.

And if the sick person is so poor that he cannot apply unto the Church, then it is the duty of the pious and well-disposed to call upon his own spiritual father, that he may supply his spiritual necessities.

Above all, let him be sure to admonish the sick earnestly, that he do not use any unlawful and superstitious means for his recovery, such as the Church has forbidden; such as magical charms and incantations, and contracts with the Devil; for from these he will receive infinitely more hurt than advantage or benefits to his health.

But, on the contrary, he should place all his trust and confidence in God's mercy only, and make use of such medicines as the skillful physician prepares or directs for him.

Whoso after this manner shall visit the sick shall, according to this beatitude, be blessed both in this world and that which is to come.

However, when the sick person is ill of any contagious disease, or of the plague itself, then the devout Christian may take such measures in the discharge of this duty as may best conduce to the safety of his life, and do that which he himself cannot do, in person, by the administration of others who can.

173. What is the sixth corporeal work of mercy?

The sixth corporeal work of mercy is to receive the stranger into one’s house, with cheerfulness and hospitality; especially those who, being on their way to visit holy places, that they may there pay their vows and worship, turn in unto us.

Such are all religious mendicants and travellers whose necessities he must relieve according to his abilities, he that desires to be an inheritor of this beatitude; and more especially those who are sick and destitute in the public streets, and are forced to beg by the wayside.

174. What is the seventh corporeal work of mercy?

The seventh corporeal work of mercy is to bury the dead. And this duty we should perform with promptness and readiness, especially to those who die in extreme poverty, on whom we should bestow such things as are requisite for their sepulchre, according to the manner of pious Christians: as Tobias did (Tobit 2:2-7; cf. 1:16-18).

When we perform this duty to our friends and relations, we must take care to have Orthodox and pious men, who may accompany the deceased to its sepulchre, and make due offerings of worship and prayer unto God for the salvation of the departed soul.

Seven of the Soul.

175. What and how many are the works of mercy that respect the soul?

Seven.

Exhort a sinner. 

Instruct the unlearned. 

Counsel those in need. 

Pray for others. 

Comfort the sorrowful. 

Bear insult and injury patiently. 

Forgive from the heart. 

176. What is the first spiritual work of mercy?

The first spiritual work of mercy is to exhort a sinner, and convert him from his sins, that he may be brought to amend his life; as the Scripture bears witness:

Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one convert him, let him know that he who converts a sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall cover a multitude of sins. (James 5:19-20)

This is the chiefest and most exalted office of humanity that can move a good man with compassion for his neighbor; for this contains not temporary and changeable rewards only, but such as are permanent and eternal.

But in the discharge of this duty the utmost care and caution must be used that the sinner be not imprudently cast into despair, or led into an ill-grounded or presumptuous confidence of God's mercy. By either of these we should do more harm than good unto the person we undertook to convert; wherefore we should discreetly preserve a middle course: And where we ourselves are not equal to such an undertaking, it is our duty to seek out some more fit and able person for the office, and endeavour to engage their assistance.

The same is also to be regarded in the conversion of heretics and schismatics.

177. What is the second spiritual work of mercy?

The second spiritual work of mercy is to instruct the ignorant and unlearned.

And he rightly discharges this duty who teaches the ignorant how to believe in God, three Persons, but only one Godhead.

That is, supposing a person to be properly qualified for instructing; which if he is not, let him then seek someone who is so, lest, as the Scripture says of the blind leading the blind, they both fall into a ditch (Matthew 15:14; cf. Luke 6:39-42).

We are, also, hereby directed to inform the unskilful how they should worship God in a proper manner, and in what method they should pray unto him, and also how they should the most easily know the commands of God, and the readiest means of obeying them.

And this especially with regard to orphans and children destitute of friends and parents, whom we should take care to have instructed in good and religious knowledge: whereby afterwards they may happily become useful to the Church and the public good; and God be thanked and glorified by them.

If we neglect this duty, we shall surely be condemned with the same sentence which was pronounced against the unprofitable servant, who having received the talent, returned it unto his master without any profit or improvement (Matthew 25:24-30).

178. What is the third spiritual work of mercy?

The third spiritual work of mercy is that we should give good counsel to him that stands in need thereof; as when, by our pious and Christian exhortations and good advice, we reclaim one who lives a wicked and sinful life from his evil courses to a regular and holy life.

Likewise when any, by misfortunes and other afflictions, are so distressed and entangled that they know not how to help themselves and get out of their troubles; then should we freely, and with a liberal hand, give unto them this healing balm of good counsel, and advise them how they best may secure their lives and credit.

This duty also requires that we should disclose unto our neighbor any ill designs that we know to be laid against his life or good name, whereof he is ignorant: But herein we must proceed cautiously and prudently, and take care that we do not stir up hatred between any, nor become the cause of bloodshed.

179. What is the fourth spiritual work of mercy?

The fourth spiritual work of mercy is that we should pray unto God for each other.

And although this duty more particularly obliges the Priests of the Church and spiritual fathers, yet laymen are also bound by it. Concerning which we spoke more at large when we treated concerning the sixth precept of the Church.

180. What is the fifth spiritual work of mercy?

The fifth spiritual work of mercy is to comfort the sorrowful.

And in order to this, we must first take care that no one suffers affliction or damage through our means, and that we do not become grievous unto any: As says the Apostle to the Romans:

If it be possible, as much as depends on you, live peaceably with all men. Beloved, do not avenge yourselves, but give place unto wrath; for it is written, “Vengeance is mine; I will repay,” says the Lord. (Romans 12:18-19)

But most especially are we bound to the observance of this duty when anyone either labors under any grievous crime, or is afflicted with any dangerous sickness, or is oppressed with any great and uncommon calamity: In all such cases we must not fail to comfort and relieve our suffering brethren with our consolation and good offices.

181. What is the sixth spiritual work of mercy?

The sixth spiritual work of mercy is that we bear with injuries patiently.

And we discharge this duty when we cheerfully and meekly suffer for Christ's Sake, remembering that he endured much more grievous things for our Sakes: As it is written, Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, that we should follow his steps (1 Peter 2:21).

Wherefore we must not wish evil to those who tyrannically vex and afflict us, nor return evil for evil: According to the Scriptures, Repay no one evil for evil (Romans 12:17; cf. 1 Thessalonians 5:15 and 1 Peter 3:9), but rather giving thanks unto God that we are thought worthy to suffer shame for his Name (Acts 5:41; cf. Philippians 1:29), we should pray unto him earnestly that he would forgive our enemies (Acts 7:60).

182. What is the seventh spiritual work of mercy?

The seventh spiritual work of mercy is that we readily and heartily forgive those that offend us.

And in order to discharge this duty effectively we must forgive unto our enemies whatsoever they have done against us; and not only so, but we must, moreover, sincerely endeavour to obtain the peace and forgiveness of God for those who have injured us, as we have before said.

And this, our forgiveness, must not be confined to once, but even unto seventy times seven; according as our Lord and Savior taught unto Peter, saying, I say not unto you, until seven times, but until seventy times seven (Matthew 18:22).

The Sixth Beatitude: Pure in Heart.

183. What is the sixth beatitude?

Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.

184. What does this beatitude teach?

In this beatitude the virtue of purity is recommended. For whosoever desires to see God, he must be pure and self-controlled, both in body and mind, and in all his thoughts, for impure thoughts defile the image of God, and drive away the divine Presence out of the soul.

The Seventh Beatitude: Peaceful.

185. What is the seventh beatitude?

Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God.

186. What does this beatitude teach?

In the first place, those are entitled to the blessing and reward of this beatitude who daily offer up the unbloody Sacrifice to God, with fasting and prayer, to turn away the wrath of God from men, which we most justly have deserved, and reconcile him to his sinful creatures.

Secondly, Those obtain the promise of this beatitude who, by prudently and seasonably intervening, put away strife and quarrelling; and uniting men in mutual love and charity, cause them to become friends who before were enemies.

And, lastly, those are intended who, by their counsel and advice, heal the differences arising among kings and princes, and stifle and extinguish the first sparks of war, in order that bloodshed and slaughter may be prevented.

The Eighth Beatitude: Persecuted.

187. What is the eighth beatitude?

Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness’ sake; for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.

188. What does this beatitude teach?

They are the objects of this beatitude who speak the truth undauntedly, and reprove men for their sins and faults, notwithstanding for so doing they suffer hatred, and even death: As St. John the Baptist received from Herod (Matthew 14:10), and many others. In which number are to be reckoned all the teachers of the Church, preachers of the Gospel, and Confessors, who, for the truth of their doctrine and the purity of their rules, have been hated and persecuted oftentimes even by their own ungrateful hearers and disciples.

The Ninth Beatitude: Faithful.

189. What is the ninth beatitude?

Blessed are you when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you, falsely, for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in Heaven.

190. What is contained in this beatitude?

The Apostles, martyrs, and all those who suffer persecution for the orthodox and catholic faith; who are reviled and afflicted, despoiled of their goods and possessions, driven into banishment and disgrace, and, finally, deprived even of their lives, and their blood cruelly shed, are the possessors of this beatitude.

191. How are we to think concerning the works to which Christ has promised the reward of this beatitude?

First, That these good works are so connected and joined together, that whosoever really and truly has one of these virtues, he possesses them all; and so, likewise, that he who is entirely destitute of any one is void of all the rest.

Secondly, You are to understand, concerning these good works that we have recited, that he who does them will not only enjoy eternal blessedness in Heaven, but also in this life, by the divine favor, will receive a plentiful reward of temporal good things: According to the words of Christ:

Everyone that has forsaken houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands, for my Name’s sake, shall receive a hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life. (Matthew 19:29)

And elsewhere:

There is no man that has left house or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands, for my sake and the Gospel’s, but he shall receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions; and in the world to come, eternal life. (Mark 10:29-30)

c3W4

Part III: Of Love.

191. What is contained in the third part of the Orthodox Confession?

The third part of the Orthodox Confession treats of the love of God and of our neighbor, and contains the divine Decalogue, or Ten Commandments.

Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ ratified and confirmed the authority of the Decalogue in the new law, and enlarged and perfected the doctrine of it by these words:

Whosoever therefore shall break one of the least of these Commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the Kingdom of Heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the Kingdom of Heaven. (Matthew 5:19)

192. What is necessary for us toward the exact and right performing these divine commandments?

First, It is to be considered that the commands of God are either such as require us to do some good thing, or such as forbid us doing some evil thing. Whosoever, therefore, is desirous to understand these commandments rightly, ought in the first place to learn what is meant by good, and what is understood by evil.

Good, therefore, is, properly, virtue, as sin is evil.

Now, as it seems to us to be the most useful and agreeable method, we shall first treat concerning virtues and vices, and then of the Ten Commandments of our Lord and God.

Of Virtue, or Good Works.

193. How are we to think concerning the Christian virtues, or of good works?

Good works, or the Christian virtues, are the fruits of faith, as of a good tree, By their fruits you shall know them (Matthew 7:16). And elsewhere, By this shall all men know you are my disciples, if you have love for one another (John 13:35). And again, And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments (1 John 2:3).

But that it may be more fully understood what we mean by Christian virtue, we say that good works are the fulfilling of the commandments of God, which any one does freely by the divine assistance, the human will and understanding also concurring, and being moved thereunto by the love of God and of our neighbor, and when a man is free from all real impediments.

194. Which of the Christian virtues are the most necessary?

Faith, hope, and love are the most necessary, as being those without which we can by no means obtain salvation. To this the Apostle refers when he says, And now abides faith, hope, and love, these three; but the greatest of these is love. (1 Corinthians 13:13)

Of the two former of these virtues, namely, faith and hope, we have sufficiently discoursed already in the two foregoing parts of this Orthodox Confession. In this present part, therefore, we propose, with the guidance of the divine Spirit, to treat concerning love.

195. What are those other virtues that spring forth and arise out of these three general and fundamental virtues?

These three, prayer, fasting, and alms or charitable giving, which, arising from faith, are rendered pleasing and acceptable to God, by hope, through love.

196. What is prayer?

Of prayer we have already treated sufficiently in the second part of this Orthodox Confession.

197. What is fasting?

That fasting which is considered a Christian virtue is the abstaining from all food (at least from some, as in the case of sickness) and liquor, from all worldly concerns, and from all evil desires; that so, being freed from all hindrances and encumbrances, the devout Christian may apply himself with more readiness and tranquillity to recommend himself to God in prayer, and obtain his pardon; and also subdue the lusts of the flesh, and receive the grace of God. Of this kind of fasting the Scripture speaks thus:

But in all things approving ourselves as the servants of God; in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distress, in beatings, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in watchings, in fastings. (2 Corinthians 6:4-5)

And again, in another place (Joel 2:15-16), Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the people (Joel 2:15-16). And a little after, Spare your people, O Lord, and give not your heritage to reproach (Joel 2:17).

And this kind of fasting being rightly and duly performed, has great efficacy in obtaining God’s pardon for our sins, as came to pass at Nineveh (Jonah 3:5-10). But on this head we have treated very full already, in treating of the precepts of the Church.[136]

198. How many kinds of fasting are there?

There be many sorts of fasts, as, first, those that are constantly observed at stated times, as the four yearly fasts, and those which are kept weekly on Wednesdays and Fridays; and those accidental and occasional ones which are appointed by the governors of the Church, in particular provinces and towns on particular occasions. And these, in due obedience to the Church, must be carefully observed.

There be also public and private fasts; public, as those which are solemnised by the whole Church in general; and private, or peculiar, such as are those observed and kept by particular provinces, or countries, or cities, or by private persons, by their own appointment, for some religious advancement, or the performance of a vow, or by the injunction and command of their spiritual father.

199. What are Alms, or Charitable Giving?

Charitable giving is a work of mercy, performed by doing a benefit to the soul or body of any one, having regard only to the necessities, and not to the person of him who stands in need of your charitable giving.

Now, this virtue is especially necessary for every Christian; as the Holy Scripture teaches:

For charitable giving does deliver from death, and shall purge away all sins: Those that exercise charitable giving and righteousness shall be filled with life. (Tobit 12:9)

And in the New Testament we find the Scripture thus recommending almsgiving, Go and sell what you have, and give to the poor; and you shall have treasure in Heaven (Matthew 19:21). And Christ promises that he will give a great reward in the Day of Judgment:

Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as you have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, you have done it unto me (Matthew 25:40). Come, you blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. (Matthew 25:34)

Moreover, charitable acts, joined with fasting, renders our prayers acceptable with God, and inclines his ears to hear us: As the Angel said unto Cornelius, Your prayers and your acts of charity have ascended as a memorial before God (Acts 10:4).

This virtue contains within itself all other virtues, as we have already shown in the second part of this our Confession (treating of the corporal works of mercy).

On the Cardinal Virtues.

200. What other virtues, besides, arise out of these?

These four general or cardinal virtues: prudence (φρόνησις), justice (δικαιοσύνη), temperance (σωφροσύνη), and fortitude (ἀνδρεία).

201. Wherein does Christian prudence consist?

Christian prudence (φρόνησις)[137] is an earnest and upright will, arising from forethought and a thorough carefulness, that none of our actions or thoughts offend God or our neighbor.

Of this kind of prudence the Lord thus teaches us, Be wise as serpents, and harmless as doves (Matthew 10:16). Which St. Paul thus more fully expounds:

See then that you walk with careful attention, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Wherefore be not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. (Ephesians 5:15-17)

This Christian prudence is founded in plainness and perfect simplicity and sincerity of heart, in all honesty and uprightness, and in all wariness, that the Enemy of our souls not beguile us with indiscretion; nor any others who may desire to give us hindrance and disturbance.

202. What is justice?

Justice (δικαιοσύνη)[138] is that virtue which renders to everyone that which belongs to him and is his due; which observes to do that which is his duty, without respect to persons; and this not only in one’s business and dealings, but also in what relates to another’s distinction and dignity.

Christian justice not only returns good for evil, but also permits not to wish evil to another, although deserved from us: According to the Apostle’s doctrine, Repay no one evil for evil. Provide things that are honest in the sight of all men (Romans 12:17). And the Apostle, speaking directly of justice itself, says thus:

Render therefore to all their dues, taxes to whom taxes are due, revenue to whom revenue, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. Owe no one anything but to love one another; for he that loves has fulfilled the law. (Romans 13:7-8)

203. Do, then, magistrates and judges sin against justice when they punish the guilty for their crimes?

No; for there is no power but of God; as St. Paul teaches:

Rulers are not a terror to good works, but unto the evil: Will you then not be afraid of the authority? Do that which is good, and you shall have praise of the same. For he is the minister of God to you for good. But if you do that which is evil, be afraid; for he bears not the sword in vain; for he is the minister of God to execute wrath upon him that does evil. (Romans 13:3-4)

204. What is temperance?

Temperance (σωφροσύνη)[139] is the moderation in eating, drinking, and clothing which anyone observes; likewise it is that whereby one prudently chooses that which is fit and becoming him in all his words and actions; as the Apostle says to the Romans: Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in lewdness and lust, not in quarreling and jealousy (Romans 13:13). In like manner, Let all things be done decently and in order (1 Corinthians 14:40).

205. What is fortitude?

Fortitude (ἀνδρεία),[140] that is, considered as a Christian virtue, is a firm strength of mind, whereby anyone withstands all the storms of temptation, which, for Christ’s sake, he endures from visible and invisible enemies; which constancy of mind St. Paul describes:

Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? (Romans 8:35)

And a little after:

For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor Angels, nor Principalities, nor Powers, nor things present, nor things to come: Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. (Romans 8:38-39)

But of this class of virtues we have already discoursed in the former part, when we treated of the gifts of the Holy Spirit and other virtues.

c3Y8

Of Sin.

206. What is sin?

Sin has not any existence in itself, as it is not a being created by God; wherefore we cannot explain what it is; only thus far we can describe it: That it is a certain unrestrained and unruly will of man, out of the Devil; or it may be described as in Holy Scripture, Sin is a transgression of the law (1 John 3:4): That is, sin is a transgression of the divine law; which transgression is some contrariety, opposing the will of God, proceeding from the understanding and the proper and deliberate will of the sinner.

From this contrariety arises death, and all the divine wrath; as says the Scripture, Then when lust has conceived, it brings forth sin; and sin, when it is finished, brings forth death (James 1:15).

207. How many kinds of sin are there?

Two kinds: According to the Scripture, some sins are unto death, and some not unto death. There are, therefore, mortal (deadly) sins, and those that are not so.

208. What is mortal sin?

Mortal sin is when the perverse will of man does a thing manifestly forbidden by the divine law; or, on the other hand, omitted to do, with the whole heart and desire, that which is commanded of God, whereby love towards God and our neighbor is broken.

This will of man excludes him from the grace of God, and kills him who fulfills it in his actions. For which reason their degree of sin is said to be mortal (deadly); according to the Apostle, The wages of sin is death (Romans 6:23).

A base consenting, whereby anyone determines or purposes to commit a sin, gives indeed a grievous wound unto the soul, but does not entirely kill it.

209. Into how many parts is mortal sin divided?

Two parts: One kind of mortal sin is original, the other voluntary.

On Ancestral Sin.

210. What is Ancestral Sin?

Ancestral, or Original, Sin is the transgression of that law of God which was given to Adam, the father of all men, in these words, Of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil you shall not eat; for in the day that you eat thereof you shall surely die (Genesis 2:17).

This ancestral sin spreads over all human nature; forasmuch as we were all then contained in Adam. Wherefore by one Adam sin has passed into us all.[141]

And we are conceived and born with this blemish, as the Scripture teaches us, By one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned (Romans 5:12).

This hereditary sin cannot be rooted out or abolished by any repentance whatsoever, but only by the grace of God, through the work of redemption, wrought by our Lord Jesus Christ, in taking upon him our flesh (i.e. our human nature, minus its sin) and pouring out his precious blood.

And this is done in the Sacrament of holy Baptism; and whosoever is not a partaker thereof, such a one remains unabsolved from his sin, and continues in his guilt, and is liable to the eternal punishment of the divine wrath: As it is said:

Truly, truly, I say unto you, that except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of Heaven. (John 3:5)

On Voluntary Mortal Sin.

211. What is voluntary mortal sin?

Voluntary mortal sin is that which, after having received Baptism, and being arrived in years of discretion, laying aside the love of God and of our neighbor, and acting out of our own free will, we commit against the manifest command of God.

By which sin we are deprived of the divine grace that we received in holy Baptism, and of the Kingdom of Heaven, and become captives to eternal death: As the Apostle says:

Do you not know that to whom you yield yourselves servants to obey, your are his servants whom you obey: whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness? (Romans 6:16)

This sin is taken away by repentance and the mercy of God, through Jesus Christ our Lord, when his Priest absolves the repentant at Confession from his sins.

212. How may this voluntary mortal sin be divided?

Into three kinds. Of the first, whereof we reckon general mortal sins, or those from whence others do arise; of the second are those which are committed against the Holy Spirit; and the third sort are those which do the most frequently draw down the divine vengeance on this world.

c3ZC

On the Seven Mortal Sins.

213. What are those you call general mortal (deadly) sins?

These seven:[142]

Pride 

Greed 

Lust 

Envy 

Gluttony 

Malice 

Sloth 

214. What is pride?

Pride is an inordinate and unjust ambition for its own glory and exaltation, by right or wrong, over others.

This sin, the first of all, sprang from Lucifer; and from this, as from an infected fountain, flow all the streams of wickedness.

The Scripture says of it, The fear of the Lord is to hate evil: pride and arrogance and the evil way and the perverse mouth I hate (Proverbs 8:13). And another Scripture says, Pride is hateful before God and man (Sirach 10:7).

Opposite unto this vice is the virtue of humility, which our Lord, Jesus Christ, commending and exhorting us to embrace, speaks of this, Learn of me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you shall find rest for your souls (Matthew 11:29).

215. What further sins arise from this?[143]

Namely, these; to wit, man’s thinking evil of his neighbor; rashly condemning others, whether clergy or laymen; disobedience to the Church and our spiritual leaders; also boasting, hypocrisy, fondness for contention, contrariness, strife, unseasonable curiosity, arrogancy, neglecting God’s commandments, familiar and habitual practice of sin, and the like.

Wherefore, whosoever desires to be free from this sin, let him always bear in mind the words which God spoke to Adam, You are dust, and unto dust you shall return (Genesis 3:19). Let him, likewise, be ever mindful of the Last Judgment, and of everlasting torments; and also of these apostolic words, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble (James 4:6; 1 Peter 5:5).

216. What is greed, or avarice?

Greed is the unbounded coveting of riches and possessions. Of this sin the Scripture speaks thus, He who hates covetousness shall prolong his days (Proverbs 28:16). And the Apostle Peter, They have hearts trained with greed; they are accursed children (2 Peter 2:14).

The virtue opposite to this vice is generosity; as the Psalmist says, He has distributed freely and given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever (Psalm 112:9).

217. What sins arise from greed?

From greed arise robbery, slaughter, fraud, lying, rebellion, oppression and cruelty, unmercifulness, inhumanity, hard-heartedness, envy, treachery, injuries done to the poor and others, miserliness, theft, and the like.

Whoever, therefore, desires to avoid this vice, let him constantly reflect upon the voluntary poverty of Christ our Lord, who says of himself, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has not where to lay his head (Matthew 8:20).

Let him also be mindful that he is the steward only, and not the lord of that which he possesses; and that God will require an account of his stewardship when he comes in Judgement (Matthew 25:14-30).

218. What is lust?

Lust is a foul and detestable desire of the flesh, repugnant to the law of God, which a man commits against his own body: As says the Apostle, Every sin that a man does is outside the body; but he that commits sexual immortality sins against his own body (1 Corinthians 6:18).

Furthermore, whereas every Christian is a member of Christ's Body; whosoever, therefore, lasciviously wallows with a harlot defiles himself. Now, that every one of the faithful is a member of Christ's Body the Apostle affirms (1 Cor. vi. 15),

Do you not know that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of a harlot? God forbid. (1 Corinthians 6:15)

And a little after, Flee sexual immorality (1 Corinthians 6:18).

The opposite virtue to this vice is temperance.

219. What other sins arise from this?

Blindness of heart, hatred of divine things, impiety, envy, despair, profuse luxury, laziness, enmity to his neighbor, and such like.

Whosoever would, therefore, flee from this sin, it behoves him to set continually before his mind that the holy God dwells not save in the chaste and pure heart: For which reason the sacred Prophet beseeches God that he would bestow on him a clean heart, Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me (Psalm 51:10).

220. What is envy?

Envy is a grief and discontentment of mind conceived at the good arising to another, and a joy and satisfaction when evil befalls him. Or, perhaps, it arises from our neighbor’s being something richer than ourselves, or for that he is as much esteemed and acknowledged as wealthy. The same is so of honor, glory, learning, and other qualifications.

Of this vice the Scripture says thus:

Wherefore, laying aside all malice, and all deceits, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all slanders, as new-born babes, desire the sincere milk of the Word, that you may grow thereby. (1 Peter 2:1-2)

221. What sins do spring out from this envy?

Hatred, backbiting, contempt, fraud, evasion, bloodshed, and such like.

Now, whosoever would strive to avoid this sin, let him always consider that whatsoever good happens to any man comes altogether from divine favor; as it is said, What do you have that you did not receive? Now if you received it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? (1 Corinthians 4:7) Whosoever, therefore, envies another the good things that he has received from God, reproaches God himself, and becomes altogether such as he to whom it was said, Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? Is your eye evil because I am good? (Matthew 20:15)

The opposite of this vice is the virtue of benevolence and a disposition of mind to goodwill.

222. What is gluttony?

Gluttony, or ravening, is the devouring of an immoderate quantity of food and drink, more than usual and necessary.

Of this vice the Scripture thus speaks:

Take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with carousing and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and that Day come upon you unawares. (Luke 21:34)

And again, Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in lewdness and lust, not in quarreling and jealousy (Romans 13:13).

223. What sins proceed from gluttony?

Dullness and sloth, laziness in the exercises of religion, lascivious inclinations, vain jests and unseemly mirth, insolent self-love and contempt of others, foul language, brawling, rudeness, great diseases, profuse luxury, and the like.

To this vice are opposite sobriety and cheerful frugality; as it is said, Let all things be done decently and in order (1 Corinthians 14:40).

224. What is malice, or remembrance of injuries, or the desire of revenge?

Malice, or the desire for revenge, is an inflamed inclination wherewith an angry man burns to take vengeance on any person who has injured or offended him, or whom he thinks to have done so.

Of this sin the Scripture speaks thus, Let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath; for the wrath of man works not the righteousness of God (James 1:19-20). And elsewhere, Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and injurious speech be put away from you, along with all malice (Ephesians 4:31).

225. What sins are caused by this inveterate anger or remembrance of injuries?

From this desire for revenge arises an inclination to strife, grudging at another’s good, bloodshed, raving, mischief, and doing of injuries, and the like.

The virtue of patience is opposed to this vice, as the Apostle declares in these words, You have need of patience, that, after you have done the will of God, you might receive the promise (Hebrews 10:36).

226. What is sloth and listlessness?

Sloth is a coldness and negligence in obtaining the eternal salvation of our souls, causing one to do good actions with unwillingness and aversion, and to avoid taking pains to do anything that is good.[144]

Against this vice the Apostle writes, Be not slothful, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises (Hebrews 6:12). Our Savior, also, speaking of such idle and slothful servants, says, You wicked and slothful servant, you knew that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed (Matthew 25:26). And again, Cast the unprofitable servant into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. (Matthew 25:30)

227. What sins arise from sloth?

Voluntary dissoluteness, pretences for sinning, scandal, a voluptuous life, haughtiness, and such like.

The virtue opposite to this vice is diligence and wakeful industry. To which Christ thus exhorts us, Watch, therefore; for you know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man is coming (Matthew 25:13). And the Apostle Peter says:

Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the Devil, as a roaring lion, walks about, seeking whom he may devour: Resist him, steadfast in the faith. (1 Peter 5:8)

c41W

On Sins Against the Holy Spirit.

228. What are the sins that are committed against the Holy Spirit?

An over-great and ill-grounded confidence in the grace of God; i.e., presumption, and likewise despair, which is when any one entirely distrusts the divine mercy; for this is to contradict the manifest and established truth, a denial of the orthodox faith of Christians.

229. What is over-great confidence in the grace of God?

This over-great confidence is a rash dependence which any one takes upon the mercy of God, and thereon presumes to hope that God will not withhold his grace from him, nor punish him, notwithstanding he continues still in his sins; and so thereby makes the justice of God of none account.

Let those who have conflict and struggle with this most dangerous and grievous error hear the Apostle teaching them, thus:

Or do you despise the riches of his goodness, and forbearance, and long-suffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance? But, according to your hard and impenitent heart, you are treasuring up for yourself wrath on the Day of Wrath and Revelation of the righteous Judgment of God. (Romans 2:4-5)

Of this sort are those who, with unbridled tongues, are not ashamed to declare openly thus: “If God pleases, I shall be saved; and if he does not please, I shall not.”[145] And thus, casting off all care of amending their lives, they rest in a destructive security, and neglect the salvation of their souls.

The Holy Scripture calls on these men to be more provident, in these words, It is not the will of your Father who is in Heaven that one of these little ones should perish (Matthew 18:14). And the Lord pronounced by his Prophet Ezekiel, “As I live,” says the Lord God, “I would not the death of a sinner, but that the wicked turn from his way and live” (Ezekiel 33:11). Also the Apostle in another place says:

For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. (1 Timothy 2:3-4)

Those likewise partake of this error who expect to obtain eternal life by faith only, without good works.

230. What is despair of the divine mercy?

Despair is a distrust of the mercy of God, which arises in a sinner from a mistaken opinion that God will not pardon him, and receive him again into favor, because of the evil deeds which he has done, or the good works which he has left undone. He supposes human malice and iniquity almost to exceed the divine mercy and goodness, as Cain said, My crime is too great for me to be forgiven (Genesis 4:13 LXX); which horrid blasphemy is the highest and most reproachful affront to the mercy and goodness of God.

Wherefore let not anyone, howsoever great or heavy be his sins, in the least think distrustfully or despairingly of the boundless mercy of God toward mankind. Let him, instead, think of the example of the Prodigal Son, whom his heavenly father received with a most gracious countenance and bosom full of affection when he repented and turned again unto him (Luke 15:11-32); thereby most clearly teaching us that we should not only forgive our repenting brother seven times that whatsoever he has sinned against us in, but even until seventy times seven (Matthew 18:22). The same he has said by the mouth of his Prophet Joel:

Turn unto me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning; and rend your hearts, and not your garments, and turn unto the Lord your God; for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and relents from calamitous punishment. (Joel 2:12-13)

231. What is the willful denial or stubborn contrariness which anyone might commit against a manifest truth?

A person is guilty of this perverseness, or contradiction against certain and manifest truth, when, notwithstanding he well and fully knows what is good, yet obstinately opposes it both in his words and actions, though contrary to his conscience, that he may go on in sin with the less restraint.

Of such sinners the Scripture speaks thus:

The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. (Romans 1:18)

They wander in a like error who slander the good works of their neighbor, denying that they are of God; as the Pharisees and Jews formerly abused our Savior when they beheld him cast out unclean spirits with his word and do many miracles.

Like unto these are they who envy others the grace bestowed on them by God, and likewise those who, merely out of malice and evil-mindedness, refrain from teaching the Articles of the Christian Faith unto those who are ignorant of it. Which dreadful evil do you, Christ, our King, entirely root out of every catholic and orthodox Christian's heart!

A like estimation is to be had of those who attribute true piety and other good deeds, which are the fruits of the Holy Spirit, unto hypocrisy.

They also are led astray by the same error who put off the faith of Christ; as it is said:

Whosoever shall confess me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in Heaven; but whosoever shall deny me before man, him will I also deny before my Father which is in Heaven. (Matthew 10:32-33)

On Sins Bringing Down God’s Wrath.

232. What are those sins which do most usually and frequently bring down the divine vengeance on this world?

These following; namely, willful and designed murder; of which the Scripture speaks, The voice of your brother’s blood cries out to me from the ground (Genesis 4:10).

Also the sin of sodomy; as the Lord says:

Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous; therefore I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it which is come unto me; and if not, I will know. (Genesis 18:20-21)

Likewise oppression of the orphan and the widow, and the defrauding the laborer of his hire. Concerning which the Prophet Malachi speaks thus:

I will come near you to judgment, and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against the perjurers, and against those who oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow and the fatherless, and that deny the stranger due justice, and fear me not, says the Lord of hosts. (Malachi 3:5)

To this may be added those who neglect their duty to their parents, and become ungrateful unto them: As says the Scripture, He that strikes his father or his mother shall surely be put to death (Exodus 21:15). And, He that curses his father or mother shall surely be put to death (Exodus 21:17).

On Venial Sin.

233. What is venial sin or sin not mortal?

Sin not mortal, or, as it is called by some, venial sin, is that which no man that is born, except Christ and the Virgin Mary, can be without.

However, this degree of sin does not deprive us of the grace of God, nor commit us to eternal death. Of this kind of sin the Scripture thus teaches us, If we say that we have no sin we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us (1 John 1:8).

Not any particular sin, indeed, can be described by this name, but, in general, whatever sins are not reckoned in the number of mortal sins may be referred to this class of venial sins.

Nevertheless these sins are not to be disregarded and suffered to pass unamended; but we ought daily, in our beds, and in the night season, to call them to mind, and bewail and lament before God for them, as well as for our other offences: According to the holy Psalmist, Be angry, and sin not; commune with your own heart on your bed, and be still (Psalm 4:4). And again, I am weary of my groaning; every night I wash my bed and water my couch with my tears (Psalm 6:6).

For these, therefore, pardon is also to be sought, through the intercession of the holy God-bearing Virgin and the choir of the saints; for how hateful even these smaller offences are in the sight of God is manifest from Scripture, Wicked thoughts are an abomination to the Lord (Proverbs 15:26 LXX).

And unless they are cleansed away by sincere repentance, they open the way to mortal sins, chilling and weakening the piety of man, and rendering him slothful and negligent of the commands of God.

234. Can a person by some means become a partaker of another’s guilt?

We become partakers of another’s guilt when we entice any one to sin, especially if the person is one that wholly depends upon our advice and assistance, and puts all their confidence and trust in us.

Such are those spiritual fathers who permit a man to lead a wicked life contrary to the divine commands and the traditions of the Church. Such, also, are those masters who cause their servants to sin, husbands their wives, parents their children, or teachers their students, by immediate persuasion, or permitting them the liberty of living, and so, too, of sinning as they think fit.

All these, and all like unto these, shall render a strict account unto God in the Day of Judgment of those who are committed unto their care; wherefore St. Paul thus admonishes his own spiritual son Timothy, Do not lay hands on anyone hastily, nor partake in the sins of others; keep yourself pure (1 Timothy 5:22; cf. 1 Corinthians 4:17).

235. By what other means may we become partakers of the sins of others?

When any one gives occasion unto others for sinning, whether it is inviting them to sin by scandal, by consenting, by indecent language, by commending of vice or decrying of virtue.

Among these are deservedly reckoned those who designedly excite others to anger, those who do not strive against vice and wickedness with all their might, and those who do not, according to their station, reprimand and admonish. All these become involved in the other's guilt.

c43N

The Ten Commandments.

236. Having now sufficiently discoursed concerning virtues and vices, I desire: Would you treat concerning the commandments of God?

The Commandments of God are ten in number, and in them many others are contained.

237. But are not the precepts of the Old Law long since fulfilled?

The precepts of the Old Testament which concerned Ceremonies and Mysteries, and were to foreshow the works of Christ, these are all passed away as a shadow at the approach of the body; nor are they any longer binding or to be observed by Christians.

But those commands which enjoin the observation of love and our duty towards God and our neighbor are not only to be observed by Christians, but to be observed also more carefully and perfectly by them than they were by the Israelites under the Old Law.

For as God has bestowed on us greater and more excellent gifts than on them, and especially as we have received that most incomparable grace of the Holy Spirit, through our Lord Jesus Christ, so ought our actions to excel those of the Jews: As it is said:

Unless your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the Scribes and Pharisees, you shall in no case enter into the Kingdom of Heaven. (Matthew 5:20)

Likewise:

You have heard that it was said by them of old time, You shall not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment; But I say unto you, that whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment; and whosoever shall say to his brother, “Raka!” shall be in danger of the council; but whosoever shall say, “You fool!” shall be in danger of hell fire. (Matthew 5:21-22)

In the same place much more is also said of the rest; wherefore all the commandments relating to the love of God and of our neighbor are carefully to be observed, for on these two hang all the Law and the Prophets: As the Lord has said:

You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the first and great Commandment; the second is like unto it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets. (Matthew 22:37-40)

238. Since Christ confirmed only two commandments, I pray you how can there be Ten?

These are the two comprehensive and principal commandments, on which all the rest are founded, and for this reason: these Ten Commandments are divided into Two Tables, in the first of which those are contained which enjoin the love of God, in the last those which teach us in what manner we are to love our neighbor.

Therefore in these Two Great Commandments Christ has confirmed and established the whole Ten; and concerning this Law he has pronounced thus, It is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one dot of the Law to fail (Luke 16:17).

The First Commandment: Against Unbelief.

239. What is the First Commandment of the first Table?

This is the First Commandment of the first Table:

I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, and out of the house of bondage: You shall have no other gods before me. (Exodus 20:2-3; cf. Deuteronomy 5:5-6)

240. How is this commandment to be understood?

In this commandment God reveals himself to man, that he may be known by him; for unto this end he gave an understanding heart to man, that he might discern and acknowledge him for his Lord and his Creator, and praise and glorify him.

Accordingly he does not introduce his laws by saying, I am God, the Creator of the world; but, I am your God, who brought you out of the Land of Egypt; it being more familiar and affecting to the Jews that he should introduce his commandments with a reason for their obeying them that was taken from a signal and memorable transaction wherein they were most affectingly interested, and which, as yet, continued before their eyes, and whereby they would the more manifestly and apparently see the great bounty and goodness of God towards men, and thereby be excited to praise him with the greater readiness, and acknowledge him to be the one and only true God.

He has elsewhere testified concerning himself:

I made the earth, and created man upon it; I, even my hands, have stretched out the heaven, and all their hosts I have commanded. (Isaiah 45:12)

Also a little before, I am the Lord, and there is none else; there is no God besides me (Isaiah 45:5).

Now, we Christians are bound to a more exact observance of this precept than the Jews were; forasmuch as our Lord God has bestowed on us a more ample and excellent liberty: According to the Apostle:

Who has delivered us from the power of darkness, and has translated us into the Kingdom of his dear Son, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. (Colossians 1:13-14)

In the second part of this command the Israelites are forbidden to adore and worship any other God but only the true God.

By this precept, then, the inward worship of God, and that which proceeds out of the heart itself, is commanded; and that because God sees the heart and searches out the most hidden things of men’s minds.

241. Who are they that disobey this commandment, and wherein do they transgress it?

First, All those mortally sin against this commandment who do utterly deny and disown the existence of God: As the Psalmist says, The fool has said in his heart, “There is no God” (Psalm 14:1; cf. 53:1 and 10:3-4).

Secondly, Those who make unto themselves many gods, unto whom they render worship and adoration as unto the true God, as did the heathen.

Thirdly, Those who sell themselves to the Devil, as conjurers, and those who practise magical arts and use charms and spells.

Fourthly, Those who give themselves up to superstitions and put their trust in them; and those who, when they have any sickness, have recourse to enchantments and incantations, and follow after such like superstition.

Fifthly, They who betake themselves to seek for omens and divinations in everything.

Sixthly, Those who do not with a right faith believe that, though in his nature he is only One, God is yet in three Persons.

Seventhly, They who put more trust and depend more in their own prudence and circumspection than in the grace and providence of God, or in their own wisdom and cunning, or in their strength and bravery, or in the numbers, wealth, and mightiness of their friends.

Eighthly, They who love themselves and their worldly possessions more than God.

In a word, they all sin against this commandment who set up anything of any kind whatsoever, or in any manner whatsoever, for a god, and put their trust therein besides the true God only.

Of the Invocation of Saints and Angels.

242. What, then, are we to think of the invocation of saints?

As this seems to be the most suitable place to treat concerning this matter, we pray unto the saints for their intercession with God, that they may sustain our cause with him by their prayers; but we do by no means call upon them as gods, but as the beloved of God, whom they serve, and whom they worship and glorify with united hymns.

And surely their assistance is very necessary for us; not, indeed, that of their own power they can help us, but because by their prayers in our behalf they may obtain the grace and favor of God for us.

For, in like manner we are taught by the holy Scriptures that we should entreat the saints even whilst they remain in this life, to make prayers and intercessions for us unto God: As St. Paul himself did:

I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ’s Sake, and for the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me in your prayers to God for me. (Romans 15:30; cf. 10:1)

And elsewhere:

In whom we trust that he will yet deliver us, you also helping together by prayer for us, that for the gift bestowed upon us by the means of many persons thanks may be given by many on our behalf. (2 Corinthians 1:10-11)

In like manner he himself also prayed unto God for others, as he testifieth, Always in every prayer of mine making request for you all with joy (Philippians 1:4).

Now, from these testimonies of his we learn these two things. First, That the saints, while they continue in this life, entreat of others to make prayers and supplications to God for them. Secondly, That they themselves, for their part, do pray and intercede for others, not only privately and for particulars, but openly and for all: As the Scripture witnesses, Peter therefore was kept in prison, but constant prayer was offered to God for him by the Church (Acts 12:5).

Now, the Saints after their departure can much more recommend us to God, forasmuch as they have nothing to hinder them in the exercise of this duty.

Furthermore, the saints do procure the punishment of the wicked, as the Scripture bears witness:

I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the Word of God, and for the testimony which they held; and they cried out with a loud voice, saying, “How long, O Lord, holy and true, will you not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?” (Revelation 6:9-10)

And this being so, then how much more shall they intercede with God for their brethren, who are striving in the Christian warfare; especially for those who stand in need of their help and intercession: As the Scripture teaches:

And the four and twenty Elders who sat before God on their seats fell upon their faces and worshipped God, saying, “We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty.” (Revelation 11:16-17)

And again:

And the time is come that you give reward unto your servants the Prophets, and to the saints, and to them that fear your Name, small and great. (Revelation 11:18)

But some will say that the saints do not know or understand our prayers; to such we answer that although, indeed, of themselves alone they may not hear or know our prayers, yet nevertheless, by the divine favor and revelation wherewith God abundantly blesses them, they will both see and understand; and as Elisha knew what his servant had done on the way (2 Kings 5:20-27),[146] in like manner, also, do the saints know and hear the necessities of those who call upon them, even by divine communications.

Furthermore, also, we do address ourselves unto the Angels, that they would assist us with their support and favor before God, inasmuch as it is they who present the prayers of men, and our deeds of love, and other good works, unto the divine Majesty.

Now, seeing that after death the saints become as the Angels, they can therefore, undoubtedly, in like manner both know our necessities and hear our prayers, and also help us by their intercession. From whence it follows that we are far from offending against this commandment when we offer up our prayers unto the saints, who, standing always like faithful servants before the divine Majesty, can therefore become supplicants for our salvation unto that one and only true God.

On the other hand, if we despise and reject the assistance and laboring for us of the saints, we shall most grievously offend the divine Majesty; forasmuch as we refuse to do honor unto those who have most faithfully and most holily served him.

Having now finished the doctrine of this commandment, we shall conclude with laying down two things which every Christian ought to understand aright. The first is, that we do not in any way trespass against this commandment of the Decalogue, nor weaken its authority; neither do we in any wise act beside the intention and meaning thereof by our praying to the saints, seeing that the honor which is done unto the saints is rendered through them to the majesty of God himself, unto whom the saints are become dear and acceptable because of their faith, and the lives, adorned with all virtues, which they lived while on earth. Wherefore it is right and a duty to reverence the saints of God, according to the Scripture, How dear to me are all your saints, O God (Psalm 138:17 LXX), forasmuch as through them we obtain the favor and assistance of God, as formerly the friends of Job whom the Lord commanded that they should go unto his faithful servant Job, that he might pray for them, and that for his sake their offences might be forgiven (Job 42:7-10).[147]

The second necessary point is that this commandment forbids that we should worship any created thing whatever with the worship called latria, which we have before expounded. For we do by no means worship the saints of God with that most holy worship of latria, but modestly call upon them as our brethren and the friends of God, praying that they would obtain the divine help and assistance for us their brethren, and be as intercessors with God for us. And this is in no wise repugnant to this precept of the Decalogue; for as the people of Israel sinned not in calling upon Moses to intercede with God for them, so neither do we sin in desiring the assistance and intercession of the saints.

The Second Commandment: Against Idolatry.

243. What is the Second Commandment?

You shall not make to yourself any graven image, or the likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or in the earth beneath, or in the waters under the earth. You shall not bow down yourself unto them, nor serve them. (Exodus 20:4-5; cf. Deuteronomy 5:8-9)

244. How is this commandment to be understood?

This commandment is distinct from the former, for that one treats concerning the true God, and his being only One, and takes away and prohibits the vain crowd of false gods; whereas this commandment relates to certain outward rites and ceremonies, namely, that we should not only not worship false gods, but that we should also not make or dedicate any graven image in honor of them, nor give religious worship unto idols, or perform sacrifices and solemn rites to them.

Those, therefore, sin against this commandment who worship idols as gods, and offer sacrifice unto them, and trust in them: According to the Psalmist:

The idols of the heathen are but silver and gold, the work of men’s hands. They have mouths, and speak not; eyes have they, and they see not. They have ears, and hear not; neither is there any breath in their mouths. Those that make them are like unto them; and so are all they that put their trust in them. (Psalm 115:4-8; cf. Psalm 135:15-18)

They also break this commandment who give themselves up to covetousness, of whom the Scripture speaks thus:

Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth; sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desires, and covetousness, which is idolatry. (Colossians 3:5)

Gluttons, likewise, and they who are given up to riotous living, sin against this precept, of whom the Scripture thus speaks, Their end is destruction, their god is the belly, and their glory is in their shame, whose minds are set on earthly things (Philippians 3:19).

Moreover, they are guilty of breaking this commandment who use enchantments and spells, who put their trust and confidence in fortune and fate, who seek by soothsaying and divinations to know what is to come to pass, and pretend to foretell future things by the lines of the hand, by witchcraft and conjuring up of spirits, by observations of water, and the like. They also who endeavour by spells and sorcery to transform men into brutal forms, and they who wear amulets for the turning away of evils, and who carry about them, or bind on their bodies, scrolls inscribed with oracles, or prophecies, or magical runes or characters, and by looking on such scrolls, or muttering over them certain invocations, or whirling them around them, do believe that nothing, whilst such charms are present, can have power to hurt them, whether fire, or water, or sword, or any other weapon. And all they who use conjuring wands, knotted strings, and other unlawful remedies, which are also condemned and disallowed by the art of curing and physicians, whether the same be by magical verses, or runes, or any other kind of thing which they hang up, interweave, untie, or in any way else apply, as in earrings for the ears, in rings for the fingers, or otherwise.

Of Icons.

245. What are we to think of the icons which the Church venerates and reverences?

There is a very great difference between icons and idols. An idol is a mere fiction and invention of men, as the Apostle testifies, An idol has no real existence (1 Corinthians 8:4). But an icon is a representation showing forth a real thing that has actual existence in the world, as the image of our Savior Christ, of the holy Virgin Mary, and of all other saints.

Besides, the heathens worshipped their idols as gods, thinking gold and silver to be true deities, and offered sacrifices unto them, as of old did Nebuchadnezzar (Daniel 3:1-18). Whereas we, in venerating and reverencing icons, do not adore the painting or the wood, but we honor the saints who are thereby represented, and venerate them with that kind of reverence which is called dulia, placing them, by means of the representation, before our eyes as if they were in our sight and we really beheld them; as, for instance, while we venerate a crucifix, we thereby set Christ himself before our mind hanging upon the Cross for our salvation; and unto him, with religious gratitude, do we bend our knee and bow down our heads. So, in like manner, when we reverence the icon of the Virgin Mary, we ascend in our minds to the most holy Mother of God; to her it is that we bow down our heads, to her we bend our knees, and it is her that, with the Archangel Gabriel, we proclaim the most blessed of all men and women.

It is evident, therefore, that the veneration of holy icons, which is received into the Orthodox Church, is not contrary to this commandment, as it is neither the same with that which is given to God, nor is it addressed unto the work of art — that is, the picture — but unto the persons of those saints whom the icons represent to us.

Furthermore, as the Cherubim that overshadowed the Ark of the Covenant represented the real Cherubim who serve God and stand before his face in Heaven, and the Israelites venerated and reverenced them without breaking this commandment of God; and, in like manner, as the Jews sinned not, nor broke this command of the Decalogue, but rather honored God with more glory, when they venerated the Ark of the Covenant, and received it with honor and respect (2 Samuel 6:13-15); So neither do we transgress this command of the Decalogue by reverencing holy icons, but rather more highly praise God, who is wonderful in his holy places (Psalm 68:35).

Nevertheless we must take care that every icon has the name of the saint it represents inscribed on it, that thereby it may the more readily answer the intention and design of the person venerating it.

We may add, furthermore, in confirmation of what we have said concerning the veneration of holy icons, that the Church of God, in the Seventh Ecumenical Council, has pronounced a dreadful anathema against the Image-breakers (Iconoclasts), and has established and confirmed to all ages the veneration of holy and venerable icons: As is manifest in the Ninth Canon of the Council.[148]

246. For what reason, then, was Hezekiah praised in the Old Testament, who broke in pieces the bronze serpent that Moses had formerly set up and dedicated? (2 Kings 18:4)

Because the Jews began to fall away from the worship of the true God, worshipping the bronze serpent as true God, and offering incense to it, as the Scripture shows. Therefore to cut off this evil, and that it might not spread further, Hezekiah broke in pieces the bronze serpent, that it might give no further occasion of idolatry to the Israelites. But had there not been given unto it the worship of latria, he would not have broken the Serpent, nor have condemned the Israelites of idolatry.

We Christians do not worship icons as God, nor in our approaches to them do we depart from the latria, which is due only to God himself; but rather by the help of the icons we are, as it were, led by the hand unto God; while in their icons we honor the saints, as the friends of God, with the reverence known as dulia, and beseech them to render our God propitious and favorable unto us.

But if any one out of ignorance should worship icons otherwise than herein is taught, surely it would be better that such an one should be instructed rightly in this matter than that the veneration of venerable icons should be banished from the Church.

The Third Commandment: Against Blasphemy.

247. What is the Third Commandment?

You shall not take the Name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that takes his Name in vain. (Exodus 20:7; cf. Deuteronomy 5:11)

248. What does this commandment teach us?

First, It teaches us that we should hold the Name of the Lord God in the highest and most awful respect and honor, never using it lightly or jestingly, nor on trifling occasions or for unjust purposes.

Secondly, That by no means we call the Name of God to lend credence to a falsehood, nor perjure ourselves thereby.

Thirdly, That we do not give occasion or advice to others to be forsworn.

Fourthly, That we do most devoutly observe and fulfill whatever vows we make unto God, according to that Scripture:

When you vow a vow unto the Lord your God, you shall not slack to pay it; for the Lord your God will surely require it of you; and it would be sin in you. (Deuteronomy 23:21)

And in this sort they are all guilty who, having promised in their Baptism that they would persevere in the right and true faith of God to their life’s end, yet afterwards suffer themselves to be drawn away for self-interest or danger of suffering; as, namely, for fear of being hurt in their worldly honors, or estate, or life, and do therefore abjure and renounce that which they had before so solemnly sworn and promised unto God: Concerning the danger of which apostasy the renowned Apostle St. Paul rejoices in these words, I have fought a good fight; I have finished my course; I have kept the faith (2 Timothy 4:7).

The Fourth Commandment: Observing the Sabbath.

249. What is the Fourth Commandment?

Remember to keep holy the Sabbath-day; six days you shall labor, and do all that you have to do. But the Seventh Day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God; in it you shall do no manner of work, you, or your son, or your daughter, or your manservant, or your maidservant, or your cattle, or the stranger that is within your gates; for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the Seventh Day: Wherefore the Lord rested the Seventh Day and hallowed it. (Exodus 20:8-11; cf. Deuteronomy 5:12-15)

250. What are we to learn from this commandment?

Hereby we are to know that God has set apart one day in seven, to the end that mortals might be mindful of the benefits which he continually bestows upon mankind, and that for an especial memorial of all his blessings and mercies he has hallowed this day, in which men, meditating upon the gracious goodness of God, might give thanks unto him and glorify his majesty.

Therefore, when in six days God had created the whole universe out of nothing (ex nihilo), and had rested the Seventh Day, he sanctified it; that men, laying aside all other employments, might with extraordinary devotion worship and praise God, in remembrance of the great blessings he has bestowed upon us in the creation of the world.

So, likewise, when he had delivered the Israelites out of Egypt, he was pleased to establish the Feast of the Passover by Moses; as also many other Feasts and solemn times, which are mentioned in the Old Testament, and were to be observed.

But we Christians, instead of the Sabbath, keep holy the Lord's Day, which we do because on the Lord's Day the world was renewed and human nature delivered from the bondage of the Devil by the glorious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Wherefore we ought to abstain this whole day from every kind of work and employment, that with quiet and undisturbed minds we may entirely be given up the whole time to prayer and holy meditations for the great benefits we have received.

And, likewise, our families and servants must do no work on that day; but being at rest and leisure, let them be employed only in holy things, praying unto God and praising him.

Furthermore, by this commandment we are obliged to observe and keep all such other days as the Church has required us to keep holy, such as the Feasts of Thanksgiving, of the Nativity of Christ, of the Circumcision, of the Epiphany, of the Purification of the Blessed Virgin, of the Resurrection, Ascension, and so on; also the Feasts of the Ever-Virgin Mary, the Apostles, the martyrs, and of other saints.

Now, after what manner the Lord’s Day ought to be observed, the Sixth Ecumenical Council teaches in the Ninetieth Canon.[149]

Moreover, another cause of transferring the Sabbath to the Lord’s Day is this, namely, that Christ is Lord of the Sabbath, according to the Scripture, For the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath (Matthew 12:8). If, therefore, Christ be Lord of the Sabbath, then surely the Sabbath is with great reason transferred to the Lord’s Day, both because Christ might not seem to be in any subjection thereunto, and also because on that day, and none other, did Christ arise from the dead: Whereby the world, as to its eternal salvation, was renewed and restored.

The Fifth Commandment: Honoring Parents.

251. What is the Fifth Commandment?

Honor your father and your mother, that it may be well with you, and that your days may be long in that good land which the Lord your God gives you. (Exodus 20:12; cf. Deuteronomy 5:16)

252. How is this commandment to be understood?

This commandment requires us to honor our parents, and to render all obedience and respect unto them, as they both begat us and raised us up.

And even natural reason would teach us that it was highly just and good to love those from whom we came, even although there were not any command of God to oblige us to do so; for we are beholden unto them for the highest of all benefits, and which we can in no wise possibly make them a like return of, inasmuch as we can by no means beget those who begot us; and therefore, since, next to God, we have not received from any so great a benefit as from them (except spiritual gifts), assuredly unto them do we owe the highest affection and obedience.

In these words, father and mother, this commandment likewise includes all those from whom we receive any good, as our spiritual fathers, our teachers, masters, kindred, kings, magistrates, and the like; which the Apostle declares in these words, Let every soul be subject to the higher powers (Romans 13:1). And again, Honor to whom honor (Romans 13:7). And he calls those who are disobedient to their parents without understanding (Romans 1:30-31).

However, we must be careful that nothing be contrary to the glory of God or his most holy commandments, always remembering that we must obey God rather than our parents: According to the doctrine of Christ, He that loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me (Matthew 10:37). And the same is to be understood of all our superiors.

Lastly, We should let this regard and respect that we owe to our superiors shine forth in goodwill and submission, and speaking honorably of them, and the like.

The Sixth Commandment: Against Murder.

253. What is the Sixth Commandment?

You shall not kill. (Exodus 20:13; cf. Deuteronomy 5:17)

254. How is this commandment to be understood?

This commandment teaches us that man-slaying is by no means to be committed by a righteous man who fears God, whether it be a killing of the body or of the soul.

Those who kill the body do only take away a temporary life, but those who kill the soul deprive it of eternal life; and these are by far the most criminal man-slayers.

Of this sort are heretics, false teachers, and wicked and reprobate Christians, who set an example of evil living; that is, when they become stumbling-blocks to others. Concerning whom the Scripture judges thus:

Whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hung around his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea. (Matthew 18:6)

Furthermore, a person may be guilty of killing not only by his own act, but also by persuading another to do it, by assisting, instigating, and consenting to others.[150]

This commandment also includes all whatsoever may produce or cause killing, as pride, envy, hatred, covetousness, and the like.

The Seventh Commandment: Against Adultery.

255. What is the Seventh Commandment?

You shall not commit adultery. (Exodus 20:14; cf. Deuteronomy 5:18)

256. How is this Commandment to be understood?

Our Lord Jesus Christ enjoined the most exact and perfect observation of this commandment when he said, Whosoever looks on a woman to lust after her has committed adultery with her already in his heart (Matthew 5:28).

Now, this adultery is twofold, the one spiritual, the other bodily; the spiritual adultery is, when any one, putting off the true orthodox and catholic faith, turns aside into various heresies.

Of such an one the Scripture speaks thus, They that forsake you shall perish; you have destroyed all them that are unfaithful to you (Psalm 73:27).

Bodily adultery is an unclean and immodest action committed with the wife of another man.

By this commandment, likewise, all other lewdness and wantonness is forbidden; as also procuring and alluring others to unchastity, indecent and obscene songs, and dancing and gestures:[151] As the Apostle declares:

Fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not once be named amongst you, as becomes saints: neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor crude joking, which are not fitting. (Ephesians 5:3-4)

The Eighth Commandment: Against Theft.

257. What is the Eighth Commandment?

You shall not steal. (Exodus 20:15; cf. Deuteronomy 5:19)

258. How is this commandment to be understood?

This commandment teaches us that we are not to possess ourselves of that which belongs to another by any unjust means whatsoever, whether it be by robbery, or theft, or violently withholding the right of another.

Hereby is also forbidden the taking away another's good name and reputation, the exacting too much of one's hireling or tenants, and the imposing too hard conditions of service on them.

This likewise respects usury (i.e. lending at excessively high rates of interest).

Of all which the Apostle thus pronounces, Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the Kingdom of God (1 Corinthians 6:10).

This commandment regards, also, all just contracts and bargains, in which we are required to be strictly true and upright, that we do not defraud one another.

The Ninth Commandment: Against Dishonesty.

259. What is the Ninth Commandment?

You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. (Exodus 20:16; cf. Deuteronomy 5:20)

260. How are we to understand this commandment?

This commandment forbids us to speak any falsehood of our neighbor or hurt the character of another out of malice or a desire of revenge; in a word, that we should avoid all evil dispositions and passions, that we become not the children of the Devil, and like unto those of whom our Lord spoke:

You are of your father the Devil, and the lusts of your father you will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it. (John 8:44)

In a more especial manner it behoves all such as are called to sit in judgment that they most carefully observe this commandment, that they be not led aside by the testimony of false witnesses or writings, but that they judge only righteous judgment, lest they become the children of the Devil and heirs of Hell.

The Tenth Commandment: Against Coveting.

261. What is the Tenth Commandment?

You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife, you shall not covet your neighbor’s house, nor his land, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is his. (Exodus 20:17; cf. Deuteronomy 5:21)

262. After what manner are we rightly to understand this commandment?

Among all the commandments that relate to charity or love towards our neighbor, this is the most complete and full, for it not only forbids outward actions, but even also those of the inward parts of man, and the evil inclinations which arise from the deliberate purposes and will of men’s minds to do evil.

This Commandment, therefore, fulfills all Christian perfection; and he who truly keeps it may be thought to have done full justice to his neighbor. For that which you would not that another should do to you, that do not to another.[152] And herein is all Christian salvation contained, that no one should desire anything that is averse to God or his neighbor, but, on the other hand, that he should love God more than himself, and his neighbor as himself.

These duties if we perform and do in this world with the love of our Lord and God, rightly and duly, and with the catholic and orthodox Faith, then surely, without any doubting, we may hope to obtain the supreme perfection of love in the world to come, and to praise and celebrate in Heaven that One only God, who is worshipped in Trinity, The Father, The Son, and The Holy Spirit, for ever and ever. Amen.

c48X

Appendix: The Synodikon of Orthodoxy

SYNODIKON OF THE HOLY AND ECUMENICAL SEVENTH COUNCIL

We have received from the Church of God, that upon this day [the first Sunday of Great Lent] we owe yearly thanksgiving to God along with an exposition of the dogmas of piety and the overturning of the impieties of evil. Following therefore the sayings of the prophets, honoring the exhortations of the apostles, and being instructed by the histories of the Gospels, we celebrate this day of consecration. For the Prophet Isaiah says: “Be consecrated to God, O islands” (Isaiah 41:1), intimating the churches from the nations. The churches being not simply the edifices and the embellishments of the temples, but rather the congregation of the pious, therein and those who there serve the Divinity with hymns and doxologies. The Apostle advises the same thing, exhorting us, “to walk in newness of life” (Romans 6:4), and that the “new creation in Christ” (2 Corinthians 5:17) be renewed. So too, the oracles of the Lord prophesied our condition. “The consecration,” they say, “was in Jerusalem, and it was winter” (John 10:22); that is, either a spiritual winter because of the storms of bloody murder and tumult which the nation of the Jews raised against our common Saviour, or that winter which troubles the bodily senses by making the air colder. For indeed, there came upon us a winter, not an ordinary one, but one of truly great evil, brimming over with harshness; but there blossomed forth the first season, the spring of God’s grace, in which we have come together to give thanks for the harvest of good things, or as we would say from the Psalms, “Summer and spring hast Thou fashioned, be mindful of this Thy creation” (Psalm 73:18-19 LXX). For verily, those enemies who reproached the Lord and utterly dishonored His holy worship in the holy icons, were both arrogant and high-minded in impieties, and were cast down by the God of marvels, and He leveled to the ground their insolent apostasy.

Nor did He overlook the voice of those crying to Him: “Remember, O Lord, the reproach of Thy servant which I have endured in my bosom from many nations; wherewith Thine enemies have reproached, O Lord, wherewith they have reproached the recompense of Thy Christ” (Psalm 89:50-51). The recompense of Christ is those who have been purchased by His death and who have believed in Him, both by the preaching of the word and by the representation in icons, whereby the redeemed know the great work of His Economy, both the Cross and all His sufferings, and miracles both before the Cross and after it; from which the imitation of His sufferings passes over unto the apostles and thence to the martyrs, and descending from them to the confessors and ascetics. This reproach wherewith the enemies of the Lord reproached, where with they reproached the recompense of His Christ, was remembered by God, Who was besought by His own compassion, and Who yielded to the prayers of His Mother, and moreover His apostles and all His saints who, with Him, were rendered of no account by the insolent defamation of the holy icons, so that even as the saints suffered in the flesh, so might they, as it were, suffer with Him the insults directed against the holy icons. God then wrought later that which had been counseled today, and He subsequently brought about that which He had previously performed; previously, because after many years during which the holy icons were spurned and dishonored, He re-established true piety. But now, for a second time, after a short thirty years of harassment, He has delivered us unworthy ones from adversity, redeeming us from those who afflicted us, and establishing the free proclamation of piety, the steadfastness of the worship of icons, and this Festival which brings all of us salvation. For in the icons we see the sufferings of our Master for us – the Cross, the grave, Hades slain and pillaged – the contests of the martyrs, the crowns, that very salvation which our First Prize-giver and Contest-master and Crown-bearer wrought in the midst of the earth. This festival we celebrate today; we rejoice together and are glad with prayers and supplicatory processions, and we cry out with psalms and hymns:

Who is as great as our God? You are our God, who alone does great wonders. (Psalm 77:13-14)

For Thou didst put to scorn those who slighted Thy Glory, and didst show forth as cowards and fugitives those who were audacious and impudent against the icons.

But thanksgiving unto God and the Master’s trophy of victory against the adversaries is proper here; as for the contests and struggles against the iconoclasts, another discourse written more fully will declare them. Therefore, as a kind of rest after the desert sojourn, on the journey to reach the noetic Jerusalem, and not only in imitation of Moses, but also in obedience to the Divine Command, we considered it right as well as obligatory to inscribe on the hearts of our brethren, as on a pillar constructed of large fitted stones smoothed for the reception of inscriptions, both the blessings which are due to those who keep the law, and also the curses under which transgressors put themselves. Wherefore we say thus:

To them who confess with word, mouth, heart, and mind, and with both writing and icons the incarnate advent of God the Word,

Eternal Memory (3)

To them who acknowledge in Christ one Hypostasis, with different essences, and attribute to the one Hypostasis both the created and uncreated, the visible and invisible, the passible and impassible, the circumscribable and uncircumscribable; and then who apply on the one hand, to the Divine essence uncreatedness and the like, and, on the other hand, acknowledge with word and icons that the human nature has the other attributes accompanying circumscription,

Eternal Memory (3)

To them who believe and preach, that is proclaim, doctrines by means of writings and deeds by means of forms, and link them in a single proclamation, whereby the truth is affirmed in word and icon,

Eternal Memory (3)

To them who with words sanctify their lips, and their hearers by means of those words, and who both know and preach that the eyes of the beholders are similarly sanctified through them, the mind is lifted to God-knowledge, as well as by the divine temples also, the sacred vessels, and the other precious ornaments,

Eternal Memory (3)

To them who understand that the rod and the tablets, the ark and the lampstand, and the table and the censer, from aforetime depicted and prefigured the All-Holy Virgin Mary, the Theotokos, and that these things prefigured her and not that she became these things; for she was born a maiden and remained a virgin after giving birth to God, and that for this reason she is represented as a maiden in the icons rather than obscurely depicted by types,

Eternal Memory (3)

To them who know and accept and believe concerning those things which the choir of the prophets saw, and narrated, that the Divinity Himself formed and imprinted these prophetic visions, and to those who hold fast by the venerable icons, and that hold fast both the written and unwritten tradition which extends from the apostles to the fathers, and who for this cause depict and honor holy things in icons,

Eternal Memory (3)

To them who understand Moses saying, “Take heed to yourselves, that in the day when the Lord God spoke in Horeb on the mountain, you heard the sound of words, but saw no likeness” (Deuteronomy 4:15), and who know to answer correctly that if we saw anything, truly did we see it, as the son of thunder has taught us, “that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, and which our hands have touched, concerning the Word of life, to these things do we bear witness” (1 John 1:1); and again as the other disciples of the Word say, “that we both ate with Him and drank with Him, not only before the Passion, but even after the Passion and Resurrection” (Acts 10:41); to those therefore, who have been strengthened by God to distinguish between the commandment in the Law and the teaching which came with Grace, and between that which was invisible in the former, but both visible and tangible in the latter, and who for this cause depict and worship in icons these visible and tangible realities,

Eternal Memory (3)

As the prophets have seen, as the apostles have taught, as the Church has received, as the teachers have set forth in dogmas, as the whole world has understood, as Grace has shone forth, as the truth was demonstrated, as falsehood was banished, as wisdom was emboldened, as Christ has awarded; thus do we believe, thus we speak, thus we preach Christ our true God and His saints, honoring them in words, in writings, in thoughts, in sacrifices, in temples, and in icons, worshipping and respecting the One as God and Master, and honoring the others, and apportioning relative worship to them, because of our common Master for they are His genuine servants,

This is the Faith of the apostles, this is the Faith of the fathers, this is the Faith of the Orthodox, this Faith has established the whole world.

WE NOW TAKE OCCASION TO ACCLAIM FRATERNALLY AND WITH FILIAL AFFECTION THE PREACHERS OF PIETY UNTO THE GLORY AND HONOR OF GODLINESS, FOR WHICH THEY STRUGGLED, AND, WE SAY,

To Germanus, Tarasius, Nicephorus and Methodius who are truly high priests of God and champions and teachers of Orthodoxy,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Ignatius, Photios, Stephen, Anthony, and Nicholas the most holy and Orthodox patriarchs,

Eternal Memory (3)

All that was written or spoken against the holy Patriarchs Germanus, Tarasius, Nicephorus, and Methodius, Ignatius, Photios, Nicephorus, Anthony and Nicholas,

Anathema (3)

All that was innovated and enacted, or that after this shall be enacted, outside of Church tradition and the teaching and institution of the holy and ever-memorable fathers,

Anathema (3)

To Stephen the New, the righteous martyr and confessor,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Efthymios, Theophilos, Emilianos, the ever-memorable confessors and archbishops,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Theophylactos, Peter, Michael and Joseph, the blessed metropolitans,

Eternal Memory (3)

To John, Nicholas, and George, the thrice-glorious confessors and archbishops, and all the bishops who were of one mind with them,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Theodore, the all-righteous abbot of the Studium,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Isaakios the wonderworker, the confessors Theodore and Theophanes the Branded, and Ioannikios the most prophetic,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Hilarion, the most righteous archimandrite and abbot of the Monastery of the Dalmatians,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Symeon the most righteous stylite,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Theophanes the most righteous abbot of the Monastery of the Great Field,

Eternal Memory (3)

These acclamations, like blessings of fathers, are inherited by us, their sons, who zealously emulate their piety; but likewise do the curses seize upon those parricides and disdainers of the Master’s commandments. Wherefore, we in unison, since we constitute the plenitude of piety, lay upon the impious the curse which they have put upon themselves.

To them who in words accept the Economy of the Incarnation of the Word of God, but will not tolerate its representation by icons, and thus in word they make a pretense of accepting, but in fact deny our salvation,

Anathema (3)

To them who because of a mistaken adherence to the term uncircumscribed, wish not to depict in icons Christ, our True God, Who like us partook of flesh and blood, and thus show themselves to be Docetists,

Anathema (1)

To them who accept the visions of the prophets, albeit unwillingly, but who do not – O wonder! – accept the images seen by the prophets even before the Incarnation of the Word, but vainly say that the intangible and unseeable essence was seen by the prophets, or even concede that these truly were revealed to the prophets as images and types and forms, but still cannot endure to depict in icons the Word become man and His sufferings for our sake,

Anathema (1)

To them who hear the Lord Who said that, “If you believed in Moses, you would have believed in me” (John 5:46), and who understand the saying of Moses, “The Lord our God will raise up for you a prophet like unto me” (Deuteronomy 8:15; cf. Acts 3:22, 7:37), but who, on the one hand, say that they accept the Prophet, yet on the other hand, do not permit the depiction in icons of the grace of the Prophet and our universal salvation such as He was seen, as He mingled with mankind, and worked many healings of passions and diseases, and such as He was crucified, was buried, and arose, in short, all that He both suffered and wrought for us; to those, therefore, who cannot endure to gaze upon these universal and saving deeds in icons, neither honor nor worship them,

Anathema (3)

To them who persist in the heresy of denying icons, or rather the apostasy of denying Christ, and are not counseled by the Mosaic law to be led to their salvation, nor are they convinced to return to piety by the apostolic teachings, nor are they induced by patristic exhortations and explanations to abandon their deception, nor are they persuaded by the agreement of the Churches of God throughout the whole world, but once for all have joined themselves to the portion of the Jews and Greeks; for those things wherewith the latter directly blaspheme the prototype, the former likewise have not blushed to insult in His icon Him that is depicted therein; therefore, to them who are incorrigibly possessed by this deception, and have their ears covered towards every Divine word and spiritual teaching, as already being putrified members, and having cut themselves off from the common body of the Church,

Anathema (3)

To Anastasios, Constantine and Nicetas, who, being unhallowed guides to perdition, were the originators of heresies during the reign of the Isaurians,

Anathema (3)

To Theodotus, Anthony and John, mutual instigators of evils who succeeded each other in their impiety,

Anathema (3)

To Paul, who turned back into a Saul, and to Theodore, surnamed Gastes, and to Stephan Molytes, and furthermore to Theodore Crithinus and Leon Laloudius, and. to whomever shares the like impiety with the aforementioned, whatever his rank might be, in the clergy or in some office or in whatever occupation he pursues; to all such who continue in their impiety,

Anathema (3)

To Gerontios, who, having his origins in Lampe but vomiting forth in Crete the venom of his loathsome heresy, called himself the anointed one for the overturning – fie! – of the saving Oeconomy of Christ, and to his perverted doctrines and writings and to those who agree with him,

Anathema (3)

THE ELEVEN CHAPTERS AGAINST JOHN ITALUS

To them who attempt by whatever means to introduce a new controversy or teaching into the ineffable Economy of our Incarnate Saviour and God, and who seek to penetrate the way wherein God the Word was united to the human substance and for what reason He deified the flesh He assumed, and who, by using dialectical terminology of nature and adoption, try to dispute about the transcendent innovation of His divine and human natures,

Anathema (3)

To them who profess piety yet shamelessly, or rather impiously, introduce into the Orthodox and Catholic Church the ungodly doctrines of the Greeks concerning the souls of men, heaven and earth, and the rest of creation,

Anathema (3)

To them who prefer the foolish so-called wisdom of the secular philosophers and follow its proponents, and who accept the metempsychosis of human souls or that, like the brute animals, the soul is utterly destroyed and departs into nothingness, and who thus deny the resurrection, judgment, and the final recompense for the deeds committed during life,

Anathema (3)

To them who dogmatize that matter and the Ideas are without beginning or are co-eternal with God, the Creator of all, and that heaven and earth and the other created things are everlasting, unoriginate and immutable, thus legislating contrary to Him Who said: “Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words will not pass away” (Matthew 5:18); to them who thus speak vain and earthly things drawing down the Divine curse upon their own heads,

Anathema (3)

To them who maintain that although the wise men of the Greeks and the foremost of the heresiarchs were put under anathema by the Seven Holy and Catholic Councils and by all the fathers that shone forth in Orthodoxy as ones alien to the Catholic Church because of the adulterations and loathsome superabundance of error in their teachings, yet they are exceedingly more excellent, both here and in the future judgment, than those pious and orthodox men who, by human passion or by ignorance, have committed some offense,

Anathema (3)

To them who do not accept with a pure and simple faith and with all their soul and heart the extraordinary miracles of our Saviour and God and of the holy Theotokos who without stain gave birth to Him, and of the other saints, but who attempt by sophistic demonstration and words to traduce them as being impossible, or to misinterpret them according to their own way of thinking, and to present them according to their own opinion,

Anathema (3)

To them who undertake Greek studies not only for purposes of education but also follow after their vain opinions, and are so thoroughly convinced of their truth and validity that they shamelessly introduce them and teach them to others, sometimes secretly and sometimes openly,

Anathema (3)

To them who of themselves refashion creation by means of mythical fabrications and accept the Platonic ideas as veritable, saying that matter, being self-subsistent, is given form by these ideas, and who thereby clearly calumniate the free will of the Creator Who brought all things into being out of non-being and Who, as Maker, established the beginning and end of all things by His authority and sovereignty,

Anathema (3)

To them who say that in the last and general resurrection men will be raised up and judged in other bodies and not in those wherewith they passed this present life, inasmuch as these were corrupted and destroyed, and who babble empty and vain things against Christ our God Himself, and His disciples, our teachers, who taught that in the very same body in which men lived, in the same shall they also be judged; furthermore the great Apostle Paul in his discourse concerning the resurrection distinctly and with examples restates the same truth more extensively and refutes as mindless those who think differently (cf. 1 Corinthians 15:35-58); therefore, to them who contravene such dogmas and doctrines,

Anathema (3)

To them who accept and transmit the vain Greek teachings that there is a pre-existence of souls and teach that all things were not produced and did not come into existence out of non-being, that there is an end to the torment or a restoration again of creation and of human affairs, meaning by such teachings that the Kingdom of the Heavens is entirely perishable and fleeting, whereas the Kingdom is eternal and indissoluble as Christ our God Himself taught and delivered to us, and as we have ascertained from the entire Old and New Scripture, that the torment is unending and the Kingdom everlasting to them who by such teachings both destroy themselves and become agents of eternal condemnation to others,

Anathema (3)

To those pagan and heterodox doctrines and teachings introduced in contempt of the Christian and Orthodox faith or in opposition to the Catholic and blameless faith of the Orthodox, by John Italus and by his disciples who shared in his ruin,

Anathema (1)

AGAINST NILOS

To those doctrines impiously dogmatized by the pseudo-monk Nilos and to all who share them,

Anathema (3)

AGAINST THE BOGOMILS

To them who do not confess one nature in the holy, coessential, undivided and coeternal Trinity, of one honor and of one throne, that is, the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit, but who affirm that the Son is some adventitious angel called Satanael or Amen; and furthermore, who say that the Holy Spirit, equal in power with the Father and the Son, is different from or inferior to Them in nature; to such men, therefore, be

Anathema (1)

To them who do not confess that God is the Creator of heaven and earth and of all creatures, the Maker of Adam and the Fashioner of Eve, but say that the Adversary is the ruler and creator of all and the fashioner of human nature; to such men,

Anathema (1)

To them who do not confess that the Word and Son of God was begotten from the Father without change before the ages, and that in these latter times out of His abundant loving kindness, He became incarnate as a man from the immaculate Theotokos Mary, taking upon Himself for our salvation all that pertains to us save sin, and to them who consequently do not partake of His holy and immortal Mysteries with fear, inasmuch as they consider them as mere bread and common wine rather than the very flesh of the Master and His holy and precious Blood shed for the life of the world; to such men,

Anathema (1)

To them who do not worship the Cross of our Lord and God and Saviour Jesus Christ as the salvation and glory of the whole world and as that which annulled and utterly destroyed the machinations and weapons of the enemy, and thereby redeemed creation from the idols and manifested victory to the world, but hold the Cross to be a tyrannical weapon; to such men,

Anathema (1)

AGAINST EUSTRATIOS AND LEO OF CHALCEDON

To them who introduce a heretical, new understanding concerning the ineffable Economy of the Incarnation of our Lord and God and Saviour Jesus Christ, and say or think that Christ’s human nature, like a servant, worships the unapproachable Divinity and everlastingly retains servitude as an essential and inseparable mark,

Anathema (3)

To them who do not employ with all reverence the division made in pure thought for the purpose of showing only the difference between the ineffably conjoined two natures in Christ – which natures are united in Him without confusion and without division – but employ this distinction improperly, and say that this human nature which Christ has assumed is different not only in nature but also in dignity, and that it worships God and offers a servile ministry, and is obliged to honor God, in the same manner as the ministering spirits which serve and worship God as servants; and to them who identify the great High Priest with the assumed human nature itself, rather than with the Word of God Who became man, and by such means they dare to hypostatically divide the one Christ, our Lord and God,

Anathema (3)

AGAINST BASILAKI, SOTERICHOS, AND OTHERS

To them who say that the sacrifice of His precious Body and Blood offered for our salvation by our Lord and God and Saviour Jesus Christ at the time of His world-saving Passion was offered up by Him to God the Father, and that He thus fulfilled the ministry of High Priest for us in His humanity (inasmuch as He is at the same time God and Sacrificer and Victim, according to St. Gregory the Theologian), but who then say that He, the Only Begotten, along with the Holy Spirit, did not Himself accept the sacrifice as God together with the Father; hence by such teachings they estrange from the divine equality of honor and dignity both God the Word and the Spirit, the Comforter, Who is of one essence and of one glory with Him,

Anathema (3)

To them who do not accept that the sacrifice which is offered daily by those who have received from Christ the priestly service of the Divine Mysteries, is in fact offered to the Holy Trinity, and thereby contradict the sacred and divine fathers, Basil and Chrysostom, and other God-bearing fathers who all agree in both their words and writings,

Anathema (3)

To them who hear the Saviour saying concerning the priestly service of the Divine Mysteries delivered by Him: “Do this in remembrance of Me” (Luke 22:19; cf. 1 Corinthians 11:24-25), but they do not understand “remembrance” correctly, but dare to say that the daily sacrifice offered by those who perform the sacred service of the Divine Mysteries, just as our Saviour, the Master of all, delivered to us, reenacts only symbolically and figuratively the Sacrifice of His own Body and Blood which our Saviour had offered on the Cross as a ransom and redemption of our common human nature; and for this reason, since they introduce the doctrine that this is a different sacrifice from the one originally consummated by the Saviour and refers to it merely symbolically and figuratively, they bring to naught the Mystery of the awesome and divine priestly service whereby we receive the earnest of the future life; therefore, to them who deny what is staunchly proclaimed by our divine Father John Chrysostom who says in many commentaries on the sayings of the Great Paul that the sacrifice is identical, that both are one and the same,

Anathema (3)

To them who invent and introduce intervals of time into the reconciliation of human nature with the Divine and blessed nature of the lifegiving and wholly inviolate Trinity, and legislate that we were first reconciled to the Only-begotten Word by His assumption of humanity and then afterwards to God the Father during the salutary Passion of the Saviour Christ; and thus they divide what is indivisible according to the divine and blessed fathers who taught that the Only-begotten reconciled us to Himself through the entire Mystery of the Economy, of the Incarnation and through Himself and in Himself to God the Father and, it follows necessarily, to the all-holy and life-creating Spirit; therefore to them who invent these new and strange doctrines we say,

Anathema (3)

To them who do not correctly understand the divine voices of the holy teachers of the Church of God and who attempt to misinterpret and pervert those things clearly and manifestly spoken in them by the grace of the Holy Spirit,

Anathema (3)

To them who accept, among other interpretations by the holy fathers, that the words of our true God and Lord, our Saviour Jesus Christ, “My Father is greater than I” (John 14:28), also appertain to His humanity, wherein He suffered, as the holy fathers distinctly preach in many places in their God-inspired words; to them moreover who say that the same Christ suffered in His own flesh, be

Eternal Memory (3)

To them who understand and speak of the deification of the assumed nature as implying a change of the human nature into the Divine Nature and do not believe that, because of this union, the Body of the Lord shares the Divine rank and majesty and consequently is worshipped with one worship of God the Word Who assumed it, nor do they believe that it shares in the one honor, glory, and throne, being life-creating, and equal in majesty with God the Father and the All-Holy Spirit – not that it became coessential with God so as to lose its natural properties, of creaturehood, circumscription, and of the other properties seen in the human nature of Christ – but they believe rather that it is changed into the very essence of the Divinity and, by this, imply that either the incarnation and passion of the Lord were not true, but a fantasy, or that the Divinity of the Only-begotten suffered passion,

Anathema (3)

To them who say that the flesh of the Lord is exalted by this union and that it transcends every honor since by this complete union it became immutably one with God, without change, without confusion, and unaltered by reason of the hypostatic union, inseparably and continuously abiding in God the Word Who assumed it, and that it is honored with a glory equal to His and worshipped with one worship and is established on the royal and divine Throne at the right hand of God the Father, and is endowed with the attributes of Divinity, while the properties of the two natures are preserved,

Eternal Memory (3)

To them who reject the teachings which were pronounced for the establishment of the true doctrines of the Church of God by the Holy Fathers Athanasios, Cyril, Ambrose, Amphilochios the God-proclaiming, Leo the most holy Archbishop of Old Rome, and by all the others, and furthermore, who do not embrace the Acts of the Ecumenical Councils, especially those of the Fourth, I say, and of the Sixth,

Anathema (3)

To them who do not accept the saying of our true God and Saviour Jesus Christ, “The Father is greater than I” (John 14:28), as the saints have diversely interpreted it, some saying that it refers to His Divinity because of His generation from the Father, and other saints saying that it refers to the natural properties of the flesh, assumed by Him and which is enhypostatic in His divinity, namely creaturehood, circumscription, mortality and the other natural and blameless passions because of which the Lord called the Father greater than Himself; but who contrarily say, that the Lord’s words are only understandable when the flesh is considered in abstract thought as separated from the Godhead as though it had never been united; therefore, to them who do not receive this method – that is, the conceptual division in abstract thought – as used by the holy fathers who employed it only whenever servitude and ignorance are mentioned, since they could not endure that the flesh of Christ which is one with God and of the same honor be blasphemed by using such words, but who instead say that the natural properties are to be understood merely conceptually by an act of abstract thought although the natural properties truly belong to the Lord’s flesh which is enhypostatic to His Divinity and remains united indivisibly, and they dogmatize the same concerning things unsubstantial and false, as they do for the substantial and true,

Anathema (3)

AGAINST CONSTANTINE THE BULGARIAN

To Constantine of Bulgaria, who was metropolitan of Corfu, who evilly and impiously dogmatized concerning the saying of our true God and Saviour Jesus Christ, ‘The Father is greater than I,’ and did not believe and say that the holy and Godbearing fathers understand this saying in diverse pious senses, as well as in this sense: that the flesh which was assumed by the Only-begotten Son of God from the holy Virgin and Theotokos and which subsisted in His Divinity without confusion after the indivisible union, retained its own properties, and for this reason the Lord called the Father greater than Himself; Who with His assumed human nature (since it is at one with God and of the same glory as God) is in one worship both worshipped and glorified together with the Father and the All-Holy Spirit; but Constantine maintains that this saying must not be applied whenever the Lord is considered to be one hypostasis having the two natures united, but applied only when the flesh is considered to be separated merely conceptually from the Divinity so that what belongs to His humanity can be comprehended (but the supremely theological Damascene clearly taught that this purely abstract distinction is not used whenever a statement is made indicating some natural property of Christ’s flesh, but rather when a statement manifests either servitude or ignorance); therefore to Constantine who was not willing to follow the Holy and Ecumenical Fourth and Sixth Councils, which dogmatized rightly and piously concerning the two natures united unconfusedly in Christ and which taught the Church of Christ to believe rightly, and who thus destroyed himself in diverse heresies,

Anathema (3)

To all them who are of one mind with this same Constantine of Bulgaria and who suffered and lamented over his deposition, not out of pity, but because they have been led astray by his impiety,

Anathema (3)

AGAINST JOHN IRENICUS

To the most unlearned John Irenicus the champion of falsehood and vanity, and to those things composed by him against the writings of piety, and to them who embrace his words and who believe and say, that not because of the humanity which our Lord Jesus Christ, our Saviour and God holds within Himself, and which is enhypostatic and united inseparably, indivisibly and unconfusedly with His Divinity, did He, as perfect man, say in the Holy Gospels; “The Father is greater than I” (John 14:28), but they say rather that this phrase is to be considered as being spoken by Him according to His humanity in the same manner as when, by an act of abstract thought, His humanity is divested and entirely divided from His Divinity, and as if it had never been united thereto and as it it were like our common nature,

Anathema (3)

To the conclave that raged against the venerable icons,

Anathema (3)

To them who consider the declarations of Divine Scripture against the idols as referring to the venerable icons of Christ our God and His saints,

Anathema (3)

To them who knowingly have communion with those who insult and dishonor the venerable icons,

Anathema (3)

To them who say that the Christians draw near to icons as if they were gods,

Anathema (3)

To them who say that another besides Christ our God delivered us from the deception of idols,

Anathema (3)

To them who dare to say that the catholic Church at one time had accepted idols, and thus they overthrow the entire mystery, and blaspheme the Faith of the Christians,

Anathema (3)

Whoever would defend an adherent of any heresy which disparages the Christians, or would defend someone who died in that heresy, let him be,

Anathema (3)

If anyone does not worship our Lord Jesus Christ depicted in the icons according to His humanity, let him be,

Anathema (3)

To all the heretics,

Anathema (3)

To Barlaam and Acindynus and to their followers and successors,

Anathema (3)

THE CHAPTERS AGAINST BARLAAM AND AKINDYNUS

To them who at times think and say that the light which shone forth from the Lord at His Divine transfiguration (cf. Matthew 16:28-17:9; Mark 9:1-13; Luke 9:27-36; 2 Peter 1:16-18) is an apparition, a thing created, and a phantom which appears for an instant and then immediately vanishes, and who at other times think and say that this light is the very essence of God, and thus dementedly cast themselves into entirely contradictory and impossible positions; to such men who, on the one hand, raving with Arius’ madness, sever the one Godhead and the one God into created and uncreated, and who, on the other hand, are entangled in the impiety of the Massalians who assert that the Divine essence is visible, and who moreover, do not confess, in accord with the divinely-inspired theologies of the saints and the pious mind of the Church, that that supremely Divine light is neither a created thing, nor the essence of God, but is rather uncreated and natural grace, illumination, and energy which everlastingly and inseparably proceeds from the very essence of God,

Anathema (3)

Again, to those same men who think and say that God has no natural energy, but is nought but essence, who suppose the Divine essence and the Divine energy to be entirely identical and undistinguishable and with no apprehensible difference between them; who call the same thing at times essence and at times energy, and who senselessly abolish the very essence of God and reduce it to non-being, for, as the teachers of the Church say, “Only non-being is deprived of an energy” to these men who think as did Sabellios, and who dare now to renew his ancient contraction, confusion and coalescing of the three Hypostases of the Godhead upon the essence and energy of God by confounding them in an equally impious manner; to these men who do not confess in accord with the divinely-inspired theologies of the saints and the pious mind of the Church, that in God there is both essence and essential, natural energy, as a great many of the saints, and especially all those who gathered at the Sixth Ecumenical Council, have clearly explained with respect to Christ’s two energies, both Divine and human, and His two wills; to those then who in nowise wish to comprehend that, even as there is an unconfused union of God’s essence and energy, so is there also an undivided distinction between them, for, among other things, essence is cause while energy is effect, essence suffers no participation, while energy is communicable; to them, therefore, who profess such impieties,

Anathema (3)

Again, to those same men who think and say that every natural power and energy of the Tri-hypostatic Godhead is created, and thereby are constrained to believe that the very essence of God is also created, since, according to the saints, created energy evidences a created nature, whereas uncreated energy designates an uncreated nature; to these men who, in consequence, are in danger now of falling into complete atheism, who have affixed the mythology of the Greeks and the worship of creatures to the pure and spotless faith of the Christians and who do not confess, in accord with the divinely-inspired theologies of the saints and the pious mind of the Church, that every natural power and energy of the Tri-hypostatic Godhead is uncreated,

Anathema (3)

Again, to those same men who think and say that through these pious doctrines a compounding comes to pass in God, for they do not comply with the teaching of the saints, that no compounding occurs in a nature from its natural properties; to such men who thereby lay false accusation not only against us, but against all the saints who, at great length and on many occasions, have most lucidly restated both the doctrine of God’s simplicity and uncompoundedness and the distinction of the Divine essence and energy, in such a manner so that this distinction in no way destroys the Divine simplicity, for otherwise, they would contradict their own teaching; to such, therefore, as speak these empty words and do not confess in accord with the divinely-inspired theologies of the saints and the pious mind of the Church, that the Divine simplicity is most excellently preserved in this God-befitting distinction,

Anathema (3)

Again, to those same men who think and say that the name “Godhead” or “Divinity” can be applied only to the essence of God, but who do not confess in accord with the divinely-inspired theologies of the saints and the pious mind of the Church, that this appellation equally pertains to the Divine energy, and that thus one Godhead of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit is by all means still professed, whether one apply the name “Godhead” to Their essence, or to Their energy, as the divine expounders of the mysteries have instructed us,

Anathema (3)

Again, to those same men who think and say that the essence of God is communicable, and who thus without shame strive to subtly introduce into our Church the impiety of the Massalians, who of old suffered from the malady of this same opinion, and who thus do not confess in accord with the divinely inspired theologies of the saints and. the pious mind of the Church, that the essence of God is wholly inapprehensible and incommunicable, whereas the grace and energy of God are communicable,

Anathema (3)

To all the impious words and writings of these men,

Anathema (3)

To Isaac, surnamed Argyros, who suffered throughout his life with the malady of Barlaam and Akindynus, and though at the end of his life the Church asked, as formerly She had often done, for his return and repentance, he nevertheless remained obdurate in his impiety and in the profession of his heresy, and wretchedly vomited forth his soul,

Anathema (3)

To Arius, the first to fight against God, and the leader of every heresy,

Anathema (3)

To Peter the Fuller and fool, who said ‘Holy Immortal, Who was crucified for us,’

Anathema (3)

To Nestorios, the cursed of God, who said that the Holy Trinity suffered, and to the godless and mindless Valentinos,

Anathema (3)

To Paul of Samosata and Theodotion, his like-minded confidant, and to another Nestorios,

Anathema (3)

To Peter the Paltry, the heretic, who was surnamed Lycopetrus, or “the Wolf,” to the evil-minded Eutychius and Sabellios,

Anathema (3)

To James Stanstalus the Armenian, to Dioscorus the Patriarch of Alexandria, to the godless Severus, as well as to the like-minded Sergius, Paul and Pyrrus, and to Sergius, the disciple of Lycopetrus,

Anathema (3)

To all the followers of Eutychius, to the Monothelites, the Jacobites and the Artzivurites, and generally to all heretics,

Anathema (3)

HERE COMMENCES THE PRAISE OF THE ORTHODOX EMPERORS WHO HAVE GONE TO THEIR REST

To Andronicus Paleologus, our renowned and blessed emperor, who convoked the first council against Barlaam, and who vigorously championed the Church of Christ and that sacred council both by deeds and by words and by marvelous orations to the people with his own mouth; he made steadfast the evangelical and apostolic dogmas, while he both put dawn and publicly denounced Barlaam together with his heresies, his writings and his vain words against our Right Faith; he was blessedly translated from this life and passed to that better and blessed state during these, his sacred endeavors and valiant deeds for the sake of piety,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Gregory, the most holy Metropolitan of Thessalonica, who in the Great Church synodically put down both Barlaam and Akindynus, the leaders and inventors of new heresies, together with their villainous company, men who dared to aver that the natural and inseparable energy and power of God, and in short, all the natural properties of the Holy Trinity, are created, who dared to call the unapproachable light of the Godhead which shone forth from Christ upon the mountain, “created divinity,” and strive once again to wickedly introduce into the Church of Christ the Platonic ideas and those other Greek myths; to this Gregory, who by means of his writings, words and arguments, wisely and most gallantly led the fight in defense of the common Church of Christ and of the true, infallible dogmas pertaining to the Godhead, and proclaimed one Divinity and one almighty God of Three Hypostases, possessing both energy and will, and untreated in all His properties, as is in accordance with Divine Scripture, and its interpreters the theologians, that is, Athanasios, Basil, Gregory, and John of Golden speech, and Cyril, and together with them, the wise Maximus, and the divinely eloquent Damascene, and moreover all the fathers and teachers of the Church of Christ; to this Gregory, who was manifest by his words and deeds to be the fellow-communicate, companion, ally, emulator and comrade in arms with all these saints,

Eternal Memory (3)

To all those men, together with the aforementioned renowned and blessed emperor Andronicus, and indeed, those who ruled after him, who contended for the defense of Orthodoxy in discourse and debates, in writings and teachings, in every word and act, who vigorously championed the Church of Christ, who in the Church confuted and publicly denounced the malicious and multiform heresies of Barlaam and Akindynus and their like, and brilliantly proclaimed the dogmas of piety taught by the apostles and the fathers, and for this very reason were repudiated by the impious, and were defamed and disparaged along with the sacred theologians and our God-bearing fathers and teachers,

Eternal Memory (3)

To those who confess one Tri-hypostatic and almighty God, Who is not only uncreated with respect to His essence and His Hypostases, but also with respect to His energy; to those who declare that the energy of God proceeds from His Divine essence, but proceeds inseparably, and who thus indicate by the term ‘procession’ the ineffable distinction between the Divine essence and energy, and by the term ‘inseparably’ their supernatural unity, even as the Holy Sixth Ecumenical Council proclaimed,

Eternal Memory (3)

To those who confess that even as God is uncreated and unoriginate with respect to His essence, so is He untreated and unoriginate with respect to His energy (unoriginate in the sense that the Divine energy is timeless); and to those who declare that God is in every way incommunicable and incomprehensible with respect to His essence, but is communicated to the worthy with respect to His Divine and deifying energy, as the theologians of the Church profess,

Eternal Memory (3)

To those who confess that the light which shone forth ineffably upon the mountain at the Lord’s Transfiguration is unapproachable light, boundless light, an incomprehensible effusion of the Deity’s resplendence, unutterable glory, the transcendently perfect and praeter-perfect and timeless glory of the Godhead, the glory of the Son, the Kingdom of God, true and lovable beauty which encompasses the Divine and blessed nature, the glory natural to God, and the Divinity of the Father and the Spirit flashing forth in the Only-begotten Son, as our divine and God-bearing fathers have said, Athanasios the Great and Basil the Great, Gregory the Theologian, John Chrysostom, and moreover John of Damascus, and who therefore maintain this supremely Divine light to be uncreated,

Eternal Memory (3)

To those who affirm the light of the Lord’s Transfiguration to be uncreated, and do not assert that this is the super-essential essence of God, since the Divine essence remains in every way unseen and uncommunicated; “No man has seen God at any time” (John 1:18), that is, as the theologians explain, as He is in His nature; but who say rather, that this is the natural glory of the super-essential essence, the glory which proceeds inseparably forth from thence and, by God’s love for men, shines upon those who are purified in mind, with which glory, as the theologians of the Church teach, our Lord and God will appear in His second and dread Coming to judge the living and the dead,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Michael, our Orthodox emperor, and Theodora his holy mother,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Basil and Constantine, Leo and Alexander, Christopher and Romanos, Constantine, Romanos, Nicephorus, and John, Basil and Constantine, Andronicus, and Romanos, Michael, Nicephorus, Isaakios, Alexius, and John, Manuel, who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed Matthew, monk, Isaakios, Alexius, and Theodore, who all exchanged an earthly kingdom for the Heavenly,

Eternal Memory (3)

To John Ducas of pious memory, our ever-memorable emperor, who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed Theodore monk,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Michael Paleologus the New, of pious memory, our ever-memorable emperor,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Andronicus Paleologus of pious memory, our ever-memorable emperor, who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed Anthony, monk,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Andronicus Paleologus, who is at rest with the pious, our ever-memorable most pious and Christ-loving emperor,

Eternal Memory (3)

To John Catacuzenos, who is at rest with the pious, our ever-memorable, most pious and Christ-loving emperor, who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed Ioasaph,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Eudokia and Theophano, Theodora and Helen, Theophano and Theodora, Catherine, Eudokia, Maria, Irene and Maria, who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed Xenia, nun, Euphrosyne, Anna, and Helen, the most pious Augustae,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Irene of pious memory, our pious and ever-memorable queen, who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed Eugenia, nun,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Theodora of pious memory, our ever-memorable queen, who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed Eugenia, nun,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Irene of pious memory our ever-memorable queen,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Maria of pious memory, our ever-memorable queen, who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed Xenia, nun,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Anna of pious memory, our ever-memorable queen, who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed Anastasia, nun, who by deeds and words with her whole soul struggled throughout her life for the establishment of the Apostolic and Patristic Dogmas of the Church and the overthrow of the evil and atheist heresy of Barlaam and Akindynus and of those who were of like mind with them,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Irene of pious memory, our ever-memorable queen, who by the divine and angelic habit was renamed Eugenia, nun,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Germanus, Tarasius, Nicephorus, and Methodius, the ever-memorable and blessed patriarchs,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Ignatius, Photios, Stephen, and Anthony, Nicholas, and Efthymios, Stephen, Trypho and Theophylactos, Polyeuctus, Anthony, Nicholas, Sisinius, Sergius, Eustathius, Alexius, Michael, John, Constantine, Cosmas, Eustratios, Nicholas, Leo, Michael, Theodotus, Luke, Michael, Chariton, Theodotus, Basil, Nicetas, Leontius, Dositheus, Meletius, Peter, George, Michael, Theodore, John, Maximus, Manuel, Methodius, who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed Akakios, monk, Manuel who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed Matthew, monk, the Orthodox patriarchs,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Germanus, who rests in blessedness, the ever-memorable patriarch, who by the divine and angelic Habit was renamed George, monk,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Arsenius, who rests in blessedness, the most holy and ever-memorable patriarch,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Joseph, who rests in blessedness, the most holy and ever-memorable patriarch,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Athanasios, who rests in blessedness, the most holy and ever-memorable patriarch,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Gerasimus, the most holy and ever-memorable patriarch,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Isaiah, the most holy patriarch,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Isidore, who rests in blessedness, the most holy and ever-memorable patriarch,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Callistus, who rests in blessedness, the most holy and ever-memorable patriarch,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Philotheus, who rests in blessedness, the most holy and ever-memorable patriarch, who unwaveringly struggled for the Church of Christ and her right dogmas with words and actions, discourses, teachings, and writings,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Christopher, Theodore, Agapius, and John, Nicholas, Eliu, and Theodore, Basil, Peter, Theodosius, Nicephorus, and John, the ever-memorable patriarchs of Antioch,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Damian, Basil, Constantine, Nicephorus, Leo and Sisinius, Basil, and Joseph, Michael, and Christopher, Nicephorus, George, Pantoleon, and Alexander, Cosmas, and Constantine, Theophanes, Peter, John, Nicetas, George, Nicholas, and John, the Orthodox metropolitans,

Eternal Memory (3)

To Michael, Metrophanes, Meletius, Ignatius and Maximus, the ever-memorable metropolitans of Old Patras,

Eternal Memory (3)

HERE IS MADE THE ACCLAMATION OF THE KINGS, PATRIARCHS, AND ALL THE LIVING. THE HOLY TRINITY HATH GLORIFIED THEM.

Let us beseech God that we be instructed and strengthened by their conflicts and struggles unto death for the sake of piety and by their teachings, and let us fervently pray to be shown forth unto the end as imitators of their godly conversation. May we be deemed worthy of the fulfillment of our petitions by the compassions and grace of the great and first High Priest Christ, our true God, by the intercessions of our most glorious Lady Theotokos and Ever-Virgin Mary, of the Godlike Angels, and of all the Saints. Amen.

FROM THE COUNCIL OF 1583

From old Rome have come certain persons who learned there to wear Latin habits. The worst of it is how, from being Romans of Rumelia bred and born, they not only have changed their faith, but they even wage war upon the Orthodox dogmas and truths of the Eastern Church which have been delivered to us by Christ and the divine Apostles and the Holy Councils (or Synods) of the Holy Fathers. Therefore, cutting off these persons as rotten members, we command:

That whoever does not confess with heart and mouth that he is a child of the Eastern Church baptized in Orthodox style, and that the Holy Spirit proceeds out of only the Father, essentially and hypostatically, as Christ says in the Gospel, shall be outside of our Church and shall be anathematized. That whoever does not confess that at the Mystery of Holy Communion the laity must also partake of both kinds, of the Precious Body and Blood, but instead says that he will partake only of the body, and that this is sufficient because therein is both flesh and blood, when as a matter of fact Christ said and administered each separately, and they who fail to keep such customs, let all such persons be anathematized.

That whoever says that our Lord Jesus Christ at the Mystic Supper had unleavened bread (made without yeast), like that of the Jews, and not leavened bread, that is to say, bread raised with yeast, let him depart far away from us and let him be anathema as one having Jewish views and those of Apolinarios and bringing dogmas of the Armenians into our Church, on which account let him be doubly anathema.

Whoever says that our Christ and God, when He comes to judge us, does not come to judge souls together with bodies, or embodied souls, but instead comes to sentence only bodies, let him be anathema.

Whoever says that the souls of Christians who repented while in the world but failed to perform their penance go to a purgatory of fire when they die, where there is flame and punishment, and are purified, which is simply an ancient Greek myth, and those who, like Origen, think that hell is not everlasting, and thereby afford or offer the liberty or incentive to sin, let him and all such persons be anathema.

That whoever says that the Pope is the head of the Church, and not Christ, and that he has authority to admit persons to Paradise with his letters of indulgence or other passports, and can forgive sins as many as a person may commit if such person pay money to receive from him indulgences, i.e., licenses to sin, let every such person be anathema.

That whoever does not follow the customs of the Church as the Seven Holy Ecumenical Councils decreed, and Holy Pascha, and the Menologion with which they did well in making it a law that we should follow it, and wishes to follow the newly-invented Paschalion and the New Menologion of the atheist astronomers of the Pope, and opposes all those things and wishes to overthrow and destroy the dogmas and customs of the Church which have been handed down by our fathers, let him suffer anathema and be put out of the Church of Christ and out of the Congregation of the Faithful.

That you pious and Orthodox Christians remain faithful in what you have been taught and have been born and brought up in, and when the time calls for it and there be need, that your very blood be shed in order to safeguard the Faith handed down by our Fathers and your confession: and that ye beware of such persons as have been described or referred to in the foregoing paragraphs, in order that our Lord Jesus Christ may help you and at the same time may the prayer of our mediocrity be with all of you: Amen.

Done in the year of the God-man 1583, year of indiction 12, November 20,

Jeremiah of Constantinople

Silvester of Alexandria

Sophronius of Jerusalem

In the presence of the rest of the prelates at the Council.
[1] On Predestination, also see Question 30 in St. Peter Mogila’s Catechism.[2] Unrepented sin is the sole cause of condemnation.[3] Not in the sense of learning or discovering, but knowing fundamentally.[4] He knew from outside of time, not as a consequence of forseen temporal sequence (as this would contradict omniscience). This is to say, God foreknew according to each person’s unique, total persona or identity who accepts grace and who rejects it, before they come to exist, and before they make any decision. He then predestined some, on the basis of the exhaustively known persona, prior to and not on the basis of any foreseen work (as this would reverse causation and make man the author of his own salvation, which Dositheus below denies). As St. John Chrysostom teaches in Homily 16, on Romans 9:11-13: “He does not wait, as man does, to see from the issue of their acts the good and him who is not so, but even before these He knows which is the wicked and which not such.” The cause of predestination, therefore, is God’s grace, in time freely received; the cause of condemnation is man’s sin, in time freely willed.[5] Predestination is the fact of salvation prior to its happening in time.[6] In other words, the cause of condemnation is not in God, but in man’s free rejection of God’s grace.[7] Or prevenient, i.e. preceding or preliminary.[8] i.e. unconditionally.[9] Preceding grace illumines; particular grace empowers.[10] In other words, God’s grace precedes, empowers, and accomplishes man’s salvation through the medium of man’s consenting and co-operating free will: “For it is God who works (ἐνεργέω) in you both to will (θέλω) and to work (ἐνεργέω) for His good pleasure” (Philippians 2:13). Man’s consent is not a cause of grace, but a response to grace. Dositheus is confessing that particular grace follows upon man’s response to preceding or prevenient grace. cf. Blessed Augustine, On Grace and Free Will, ch. 21.[11] There is a disjunct between will and ability, as St. Paul illustrates: “For what I will to do, that I do not practice; but what I hate, that I do. ... For the good that I will to do, I do not do; but the evil I will not to do, that I practice” (Romans 7:15, 19). In other words, willingness can be present without ability. Preceding grace makes willing the spiritual good possible, while particular grace makes the ability for spiritual good possible. Without preceding grace, it is impossible to will the spiritually good; without particular grace it is impossible to do the spiritually good. As hell is the removal of God’s grace, repentance is rendered impossible for the condemned, as both the grace to will and the grace to do are removed. Freedom of will is retained, naturally, but moves exclusively within a narrow set of freely chosen evil desires.[12] In other words, although works are not a cause of salvation, their presence is a necessary concomitant to faith such that, to save, faith cannot be alone. Salvation thus occurs necessarily with works, and condemnation with sin.[13] Not independently as a per se cause of salvation, but as a necessary concomitant and corollary of right faith, i.e. living faith (James 2:14-26), such that through one’s grace-empowered works of faith salvation is consequently had. See also Decree 13, which expressly denies that saving faith can be alone.[14] See Hebrews 5: “And having been perfected, He [Christ] became the author of eternal salvation to all who obey Him” (Hebrews 5:9). And Hebrews 12: “Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith” (Hebrews 12:2).[15] i.e. unconditionally.[16] This serves to reject both cheap grace and soteriological fatalism. Why any one person rejects this grace is a mystery. See St. John of Damascus, Exposition of the Faith, Book 4, chapter 21.[17] Contra theological fatalism, which holds that man cannot choose meaningfully between good and evil, that all choices are given, and that in salvation man’s will is bypassed and/or coerced.[18] God categorically does not cause a person to damningly reject Him, nor withhold that which could save a person were they consenting, nor coerce consent.[19] St. Cyril of Alexandria, in Sermon 42 on the Gospel of St. Luke (8:19-21), places man’s man’s fall in light of Christ’s redemption: “It was the Only-begotten Word of God, by submitting Himself to our estate, and being found in fashion as a man, and becoming obedient unto the Father even unto death. Thus has the guilt of the disobedience that is by Adam been remitted: thus has the power of the curse ceased, and the dominion of death been brought to decay. And this too Paul teaches, saying, ‘For as by the disobedience of the one man, the many became sinners, so by the obedience of the One, the many became righteous’ (Romans 5:19). For the whole nature of man became guilty in the person of him who was first formed; but now it is wholly justified again in Christ. For He became for us the second commencement of our race after that primary one; and therefore all things in Him have become new.”[20] i.e. particular sins, as the list following will show. In other words, man is born having a condition of sinfulness, as per fallen nature, not born having particular acts of sin, what is sometimes referred to as inherited or original guilt.[21] Despite receiving in his nature the ancestral sin, man has not lost his original nature, nor the image of God in which he was made, and is not compelled to sin.[22] See the following footnote. For as is the case with the Theotokos, St. John the Forerunner is also affirmed, though bearing the ancestral sin, to be without personal sin.[23] cf. the Council of Ephesus, July 22nd Session. cf. Athanasius, Against the Arians, Discourse 3, paragraph 33, which the Ephesus Council cites. The same is quoted in Session 1 of the Council of Chalcedon.[24] This denies the erroneous doctrines of the Immaculate Conception and bodily Assumption as held by the Roman Catholics.[25] St. Cyril of Alexandria, in his third sermon on the Gospel of St. Luke (2:21-24), comments: “Christ therefore ransomed from the curse of the law those who being subject to it, had been unable to keep its enactments. And in what way did He ransom them? By fulfilling it. And to put it in another way: in order that He might expiate the guilt of Adam’s transgression, He showed Himself obedient and submissive in every respect to God the Father in our stead: for it is written, ‘That as through the disobedience of the One man, the many were made sinners, so also through the obedience of the One, the many shall be made just’ (Romans 5:19). He yielded therefore His neck to the law in company with us, because the plan of salvation so required: for it became Him to fulfil all righteousness. For having assumed the form of a slave, as being now enrolled by reason of His human nature among those subject to the yoke, He once even paid the half shekel to the collectors of the tribute, although by nature free, and as the Son not liable to pay the tax. When therefore them seest Him keeping the law, be not offended, nor place the free-born among the slaves, but reflect rather upon the profoundness of the plan of salvation.”[26] The term mediator is thus understood in at least two senses, one being in an ultimate soteriological sense, applying to Christ alone, the other in an instrumental sense, a sense which can apply to the intercession of saints on earth and in heaven, as well as to Angels.[27] Observance of the commandments is the substance of faith working in love.[28] Note that the principle of works is not defined as an independent principle from faith, i.e. faith plus works, but as of one single principle with faith, which extends from faith, through faith, and by which faith is exercised and made savingly manifest. Justification is thus not by works, but by faith that works.[29] St. Cyril of Alexandria, in his 40th Sermon on Luke (7:36-50), demonstrates the unity of grace, faith, and works: “Christ’s gifts therefore raise men to a hope long looked for, and to a most dear joy. The woman who was guilty of many impurities, and deserving of blame for most disgraceful deeds, was justified, that we also may have confidence that Christ certainly will have mercy upon us, when He sees us hastening to Him, and endeavouring to escape from the pitfalls of wickedness. Let us too stand before Him: let us shed the tears of repentance: let us anoint Him with ointment: for the tears of him that repenteth are a sweet savour to God. Call him to mind who saith, ‘Awake, they who are drunken with wine: weep and howl all they who drink wine to drunkenness.’ For Satan intoxicates the heart, and agitates the mind by wicked pleasure, leading men down to the pollutions of sensuality. But while there is time, let us awake; and as most wise Paul says, ‘Let us not be constantly engaged in revels and drunkenness, nor in chambering and wantonness; but rather let us work what is good: for we are not of the night, nor of darkness, but children of light and of the day. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and clothe ourselves with the works of light.’ Be not troubled when thou meditatest upon the greatness of thy former sins: but rather know, that still greater is the grace that justifieth the sinner, and absolveth the wicked. Faith then in Christ is found to be the pledge to us of these great blessings: for it is the way that leadeth unto life... that makes us members of the kingdom of Christ.”[30] i.e. heaven.[31] μετέξει πληρεστάτῃ ἐνεργείας τοῦ τελεταρχικοῦ πνεύματος[32] Apostolic succession and continuity include at least three aspects: apostolic doctrine, episcopal ordination, and diachronic koinonia, which is to say that each generation would recognize the other as being in communion.[33] Canon 1 of the Apostolic Canons reads: “Let a bishop be ordained by two or three bishops.”[34] i.e. Chrismation.[35] Note carefully that the teaching is not faith plus works, as if works were a kind of second principle extrinsically coordinated with faith, but faith which itself works through love. Such works are thus works of faith.[36] ἔξωθεν, the sense specified in the Synodical Letter to the Synod at Jassy, critique 9.[37] i.e. as a transaction following upon bare assent, i.e. a mere transfer of labels, from sinful righteous, divorced from actual transformation.[38] A righteousness that is merely extrinsic or imputed undermines the reality of metanoia, essential to salvation, which is the fundamental transformation of the person. Impartation, which is an intrinsic communication of grace that is cooperated with, received by faith, is also necessary; for the reality of Christ’s righteousness must extend into and through the person: faith working in love.[39] This condemns bare faith and cheap grace, or what some call “free grace.” Bare faith is barren faith, a chimera, which is to say no faith at all.[40] Universalism (apokatastasis) is emphatically denied.[41] Τοὐναντίον δὲ μᾶλλον πιστεύομεν, ὅτι οὐ τῆς πίστεως ἀναφορικὸν ἀλλά τὴν οὖσαν ἐν ἡμῖν πίστιν διὰ τῶν ἔργων δικαιοῦν ἡμᾶς παρά Χριστοῦ.[42] This responds to Lucaris who, in the 13th chapter, defines faith’s referent (ἀναφορικὸν) as “the righteousness of Christ.”[43] i.e. the faith that is in us that actually cooperates with the grace of Christ. A merely forensic or extrinsic (ἔξωθεν) justification is insufficient for salvation. Faith, which receives Christ’s righteousness, and certainly has a forensic aspect, justifies only when it is living, actual, i.e. when it is faith working through love. This is the twin reality of imputation and impartation, which avoids two ditches: on the one side, cheap grace, and on the other, self-justification (Pelagianism).[44] In other words, the reality of faith, and so of justification, is not in mere words or forensic declarations. Only the kind of faith that cooperates with grace, i.e. works through love, receives Christ’s righteousness, and is thus justified, because Christ’s righteousness always comes with power, not mere assertions, therefore one is only truly justified by the kind of faith that energizes works of love. Forensic (extrinsic) justification rightly applies only in these conditions.[45] Not justifying ourselves, we are justified by Christ when we have faith working through love. This emphasizes that the internalization of grace through faith is made active through works, thus justifying a person. This denies both that one is saved through bare assent, i.e. “faith simply alone,” and that one saves himself through his own works with Christ merely assisting (of which see Decree 14).[46] This would again make works a kind of second principle. It would also lead the soul to look to its own works for salvation rather than to Christ.[47] i.e. fruits of faith, which is to say direct products of living faith.[48] Note that the faith is what is efficacious, i.e. justifying. The faith that works in love is not faith + works + love = 3 things that are needed for salvation, but a single thing, faith, that works (in love). Thus we are justified by faith that works, i.e. faith and works, not faith plus works, for we show a single thing, faith, by our works (James 2:18).[49] Not that works merit salvation, but varying weights of glory.[50] Man, being fallen, does not cease having the natural powers proper to man.[51] i.e. man retains the natural power to choose good and reject evil. Retaining this, it is yet affirmed in Chapter 1 of the Synod of Jerusalem that man regards “as natural what is against nature,” and that “he is inclined towards evil.” This excludes the possibility of Pelagianism.[52] The power to will is a property of human nature, and so if a person were by nature unable to will the good, then it would mean human nature is not merely fallen or corrupt, but evil. Thus evil choice would be the natural product of an evil nature, making evil part of nature, which is both absurd and blasphemous. For not only does evil not have a nature, but God being the author of nature He cannot be the author of an evil nature or of sin. As Decree 4 states: “For it is a true and infallible rule, that God is in no way the author of evil, nor can it at all by just reasoning be attributed to God.”[53] Dositheus is distinguishing between natural good and spiritual good.[54] Works without faith do not justify, nor do they save, nor do they damn.[55] It is works of faith, wrought by grace and with grace, in the regenerated (regeneration also being by grace), that renders a person worthy. Therefore, salvation is received by grace through faith working in love. Worthiness is thus not the sum of natural perfection but of supernatural grace working in and through man, man freely cooperating with God’s saving energy.[56] This has also been called civil or social righteousness.[57] Not in the sense of adding to Christ’s salvation, or of aiding Christ, but in the sense of actively and willingly receiving salvation.[58] This points to a profound mystery as regards God being the Lord of the natural and the supernatural, wherein the Sacraments he binds the natural and the supernatural together in order to provide a tangible means of grace.[59] “The devil, in bringing about our death in a twofold sense [i.e. bodily and spiritually]... we for our compliance were condemned” (Synod of Jerusalem, Against the Third Question, pg 52).[60] This reference could not be confirmed.[61] On Baptism, Against the Donatists, Book 4, chapter 24, cf. chapter 23.[62] This and the following reference could not be confirmed. Bl. Augustine, however, wrote On Baptism, Against the Donatists, in six books, and also in three books: On the Merits and Forgiveness of Sins, and on the Baptism of Infants.[63] Blessed Augustine taught, in Book 4, Chapter 25, On Baptism: “The sacrament of baptism is one thing, the conversion of the heart another; but that man’s salvation is made complete through the two together. Nor are we to suppose that, if one of these be wanting, it necessarily follows that the other is wanting also; because the sacrament may exist in the infant without the conversion of the heart; and this was found to be possible without the sacrament in the case of the thief, God in either case filling up what was involuntarily wanting. But when either of these requisites is wanting intentionally, then the man is responsible for the omission. And baptism may exist when the conversion of the heart is wanting; but, with respect to such conversion, it may indeed be found when baptism has not been received, but never when it has been despised. Nor can there be said in any way to be a turning of the heart to God when the sacrament of God is treated with contempt.”[64] Notice the reference to justification (δικαιοῦν), which relates to Decree 13.[65] This is also called baptismal regeneration, where the new life received is that of Christ.[66] This is against the idea that sins are merely described as forgiven, as if it was a legal reality without sin’s energy and power also being washed away. God does declare them as forgiven, i.e. they are no longer imputed, but in doing so He also truly imparts the energy of grace to actually remove sin.[67] i.e. the Lord’s Supper, the very one He instituted, the one He shared with His disciples, and the Eucharist we partake of, are one with the Cross, and so one Sacrifice, one Supper, not many suppers, not many sacrifices, nor repetitions. cf. Chapter 4 of the Synodical documents, which declares of the unbloody Sacrifice that it is “not different, and… is one and the same” (pgs 67-68). In that same place it cites St. John Chrysostom as showing, “in many places,” the truth of this. One example, from his Commentary on Hebrews 9:24-26, paragraph 3: “He is Himself then both victim and Priest and sacrifice. For if it had not been so, and it had been necessary to offer many sacrifices, He must have been many times crucified.” And on Hebrews 10:2-9, paragraph 6: “For we always offer the same, not one sheep now and tomorrow another, but always the same thing: so that the sacrifice is one. And yet by this reasoning, since the offering is made in many places, are there many Christs? But Christ is one everywhere, being complete here and complete there also, one Body. As then while offered in many places, He is one body and not many bodies; so also [He is] one sacrifice. He is our High Priest, who offered the sacrifice that cleanses us. That we offer now also, which was then offered, which cannot be exhausted.”[68] Which followers of Luther Dositheus has in mind is unclear; Confessional Lutherans deny impanation and the Capernaitic eating of the Body of Christ. See Formula of Concord, Epitome (1576), Article 7.14-15, 42; Solid Declaration (1577), Article 7.14-15, 64.[69] This is not a hocus pocus change for, as the Confession clearly affirms, the material species and form of the bread and wine remain. In other words, the material, which is to say the matter, undergoes no change. Moreover, no violence is done to the substance of the bread, nor is it annihilated, but is trans-substantiated.[70] In light of the contemporary scientific understanding of matter, it is important to understand what the doctrine of transubstantiation, as a philosophical explanation, is and is not saying. In contemporary terms, a thing “is” essentially what its matter determines, for people today generally assume a stance of philosophical materialism. Thus bread, according to this view, is only its material properties, i.e. its matter. But this corresponds to what the Confession describes as its accidents. Today, the substance/accidents distinction is not typically applied in reflection on what a thing is, and so when asking what a thing “is,” the answer is usually in terms of its material properties, for matter is typically understood as the ground of being. However, in substance/accidents ontology, the question of “is” finds its answer in its substance, which is not per se the material substance or properties. What we today understand material substance to be is what the substance/accidents distinction calls the accidents of the “what it is.” The matter instantiates a substance but is not identical with that substance. Thus, for example, when the “is” of the bread changes to the Body, it is not a claim that the molecular structure which constitutes the material accidents of the bread changes, but that the “is” of the bread changes to the “is” of Christ’s Body; the accidents, i.e. what we today call the material substance, remains constant. As such, only the “is” of Christ’s Body remains, for the “is” of the bread is transformed, leaving its material substance, i.e. its accidents, so that it can still be spoken of as bread in this limited material sense, whereas in reality it is Christ’s Body. See also St. Peter Mogila’s Catechism, Question 107, who states that the Body of Christ is “under the clothing of bread and wine.”[71] In other words, the material accidents, which are handled and ingested, are the accidents of the bread and wine, not the accidents of Christ’s Body; in handling these, the very Body and Body of Christ are consumed. Christ’s Body and Blood are not present as per accidents, but as per substance. This doctrine excludes materialistic reductionism as a viable worldview.[72] “For it is not the justice of the judge that is the cause of punishment, but the action of the evil doer” (Chapter 1 of the Jerusalem Synod, Against the Third Question, pg 52).[73] This not only denies that there is a third place, i.e. Purgatory, but that such deliverance is not granted to the faithless, but to the faithful who have left while still, tragically, clinging to some sin. The “satisfaction” (ἱκανοποίησιν) is granted principally through the Cross, which is to say the Eucharistic and unbloody Sacrifice, therefore demonstrating the Gospel-centered nature of such satisfaction, and not through the works or the suffering of the one needing deliverance. They do not satisfy for themselves or for their own sins. Moreover, as among the faithful, faith is not being supplied to them where none was, but as one clinging to sin it is as though their will was frozen in its trust in Christ, and so the power of Christ works in their already-present faith, through the Cross and the intercessions of the Church, to deliver them from their bondage to the clung-to sin.[74] What this is not saying is that laity are forbidden from reading the Scriptures, but that all due faithful preparation is required to read the Scriptures safely and with spiritual profit. Nothing bars anyone from meeting the above listed prerequisites, even among Orthodox youth. The holy Fathers regularly exhort the faithful to read the Scriptures, to which all should aspire.[75] Those who stubbornly refuse proper disciplines of reading, whether through excessive oversimplification, or reducing all the genres of Scripture to gross literalism, or insisting on reading into Scripture conclusions contrary to orthodox faith, are forbidden from reading until they can meet the minimum standards of faithful reading.[76] The simplicity of Christian faith is such that one need not be a Bible scholar in order to be saved. In this it is worthwhile to remember that prior to the modern era the rate of literacy was typically much lower, most people living in oral cultures.[77] Notice that it is not due to any clericalism that the undisciplined are forbidden, but that they simply mature in the faith to the degree that reading is profitable to them.[78] Historical theology, which charts the long course the Church has waged against innumerable errors and distortions in theology, is ample enough evidence that examination of the Scriptures requires the faithful, prayerful, and disciplined synthesis of the whole counsel of God, and cannot be rashly taken up without injury. See also St. Philaret’s Longer Catechism, Question 56.[79] Canons 59-60.[80] This is an ecclesiological argument, holding that it is only through the authority granted to the Church, as the Bride of Christ, that holy Scripture, her Bridegroom’s Word, can be distinguished from what is spurious, such that to reject what the Church holds to be Scripture is to reject the very principle and mechanism by which any Scripture is identified as Scripture at all. Though God’s Word is internally self-authenticating, it requires among men an authoritative public means by which it can be distinguished from the spurious, which means is the Church. The Church thus does not “make” Scripture to “be” Scripture, but for the sake of the Body declares it to be what it factually is in and of itself, such that without the Church Scripture is lost.[81] On this see also St. Philaret’s Longer Catechism, Questions 31-35.[82] In allusion to the manger out of which the irrational animals eat their food. -Translator’s note[83] These, together with the Octoechos and the Pentecostarion, are among the principle liturgical books containing the hymns used during services throughout the Church Year.[84] The Greek name, Θηκαρᾶ, is uncertain, but may refer to a collection of hymns that bore this person’s name, either as author or compiler.[85] The fact of the charism of the monastic calling is rooted in such teachings of Christ as in Matthew 19:12, and St. Paul in 1 Corinthians 7:8-9, 32-35, 38, and is a profound spiritual reality of the Church. The Calvinist criticism of the charism of monasticism is thus not only an affront to the Church, but also to the Word of God and to the Holy Spirit, who graces some with a call to the celibate monastic life. The Calvinist rejection of monasticism is therefore a much more significant problem than simply a foregoing of its practice.[86] Note that this is not a rigid or extreme asceticism, nor a perfecting through the flesh (cf. Galatians 3:3), nor a replacement for grace, but a Spirit-led means by which one mortifies the passions, engages in spiritual warfare, and co-operates with grace, in order to look more readily from self to God, wean from self-will, and diminish reliance on and attachment to sensualism. It not only aids the body, but strengthens character.[87] The raised floor or platform on which the holy Altar sits within the Sanctuary of the Church, which can refer to the space of the Sanctuary itself. The Orthodox Church is arranged, architecturally, from outer to inner: Narthex, Nave, Sanctuary.[88] The arch of the ceiling in the Sanctuary or Altar.[89] i.e. that of St. Peter Mogila. This is one of two places wherein St. Peter Mogila’s Catechism is referred to as an authoritative guide to the teachings of the Orthodox Church, the other being in the opening section of the Synodical documents. He was also a signatory of the Synodical Letter.[90] Of all the surrounding documents mentioned, only St. Peter Mogila’s and Patriarch Jeremiah’s are known to be translated into English at present.[91] The date is wanting in the text. -Translator’s note[92] Following the signature of the Patriarch of Jerusalem, Dositheus, are an additional seventy signatories, including Metropolitans, Archbishops, Hieromonks, Priests, Hierodeacons, and other clergy, and also Nectarius, the former Patriarch of Jerusalem.[93] A reference to the confessional Catechism of St. Peter Mogila.[94] The Greek and the German edition have the following addition: “But those who freely accept the grace given them, who make good use of the means of grace granted unto them, and who walk in the appointed path of salvation, God has properly foreordained for salvation.”[95] Which relevant portion of the canon reads: “But if any one at all shall not observe and embrace the aforesaid pious decrees [of the Apostles, Fathers, and Ecumenical Councils], and teach and preach in accordance therewith, but shall attempt to set himself in opposition thereto, let him be anathema, according to the decree already promulgated by the approved holy and blessed Fathers, and let him be cast out and stricken off as an alien from the number of Christians.” This canon, with the rest of those from Trullo, was received by the Seventh Ecumenical Council as belonging to the Sixth Ecumenical Council.[96] All Orthodox Christians ought at least to know the Creed, the Lord’s Prayer, the Beatitudes, and the Ten Commandments by heart.[97] In this context, the term hypostasis (from ὑπόστασις) is functionally equivalent to the term person (from πρόσωπον), such that to say God is One in three Hypostases is the same as to say God is One in three Persons.[98] Both translations of the same Greek term, ὁμοούσιος, (homoousios), consubstantial and co-essential are synonyms.[99] St. Gregory, in this paragraph, argues that each of the prepositions: from, through, and to, as found in Romans 11:36, apply equally to all three Persons of the Trinity.[100] The last phrase of 1 John 5:7 is known as the Johannine Comma, which does not appear in all early manuscripts.[101] See the text of the Athanasian Creed. It is also noteworthy that St. Peter Mogila’s acceptance in this Catechism of the Athanasian Creed, together with the Council of Jerusalem’s acceptance of this Catechism, places the Athanasian Creed squarely within Orthodox usage.[102] These were the express concerns of the First Ecumenical Council, at Nicaea, and the Second Ecumenical Council, at Constantinople.[103] The order given follows that of St. Dionysius, from highest to lowest.
[104] On this subject see also Question 210.
[105] Also included in the Latin: Originale, as in Original Sin.[106] The above follows the Greek. The Latin reads: “Deinde, quod nemo mortalium, nisi cum hac naturae contagione, concipitur.” The translation reads: “Secondly, because no mortal is conceived without this depravity of nature.”[107] The reference to the Dialogue could not be confirmed.[108] In the 1898 edition the answer to this question, sadly, is missing, but instead the answer to question 44 is given, while the question for 44 is missing. The answer is here restored, and the question supplied for 44.[109] This troparion is sung during the Paschal Hours, and also recited by the priest or deacon while censing around the altar.[110] Although the 13th Catechetical Lecture of St. Cyril of Jerusalem treats of this subject, the exact location of this citation could not be confirmed. The quotation perhaps derives from a different manuscript tradition.[111] In common practice, after touching the head, the hand then touches near the naval region, and then continues as described above. The thumb and first two fingers held together represent the Trinity in Unity, and the two last fingers held down on the palm represent the two natures of the Incarnate Christ.[112] In praying thus one touches the forehead while saying, Lord Jesus Christ, then touches the naval region while saying, Son of God, then touches the right shoulder while saying, have mercy on me, and finally touches the left shoulder, saying, a sinner. Variations to this exist, especially when in incorporating bows or prostrations, or when a different form of the prayer is used.[113] cf. Acts 2:24-32.[114] The Greek reads: κατὰ τὸν τρόπον τῆς σαρκὸς, ὃπου ἐφὀρεσε, καὶ συνανεστράφηκεν εἰς τὶν γῆν[115] εὐποιΐα can also be translated as “doing good,” as it is typically translated in Hebrews 13:16: “Do not neglect to do good (εὐποιΐα) and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God” (Hebrews 13:16).[116] This condemnation, although not referring to purgatory by name, reads: “If anyone says or thinks that the punishment of demons and of impious men is only temporary, and will one day have an end, and that a restoration (ἀποκατάστασις) will take place of demons and of impious men, let him be anathema.” The Sixth and Seventh Ecumenical Councils upheld this condemnation, as did the Council of Trullo (Quinisext).[117] The Latin version of this passage, as reflected by the Latin parentheticals above, is longer than the Greek version.[118] Following the Greek text.[119] Citation could not be confirmed.[120] The Council of Chalcedon, in Session 5, regarding the Nicene- Constantinopolitan Creed declared that “the holy Ecumenical Council defines that no one shall be suffered to bring forward a different faith (ἑτέραν πίστιν), nor to write, nor to put together, nor to excogitate, nor to teach it to others. But such as dare either to put together another faith, or to bring forward or to teach or to deliver a different Creed (ἕτερον σύμβολον)... if they be Bishops or clerics let them be deposed, the Bishops from the Episcopate, and the clerics from the clergy; but if they be monks or laity: let them be anathematized.”[121] In other words, it is a necessary consequence of the Holy Spirit’s inspiration of the thus infallible Scriptures which, in light of the Spirit’s moving of the holy Apostles in their Council (as inerrently recorded in Acts), is the ground for understanding how the Spirit likewise moves in the Church, especially in Ecumenical and Particular (i.e. local or regional) Councils, granting said Councils divine authority as being also the voice the Spirit.[122] Greek (Textus Receptus): Ὁ δὲ καρπὸς τοῦ πνεύματός ἐστιν ἀγάπη χαρά εἰρήνη μακροθυμία χρηστότης ἀγαθωσύνη πίστις πρᾳότης, ἐγκράτεια· κατὰ τῶν τοιούτων οὐκ ἔστιν νόμος (Galatians 5:22-23)
Latin (Vulgate): fructus autem Spiritus est caritas gaudium pax longanimitas bonitas benignitas fides modestia continentia adversus huiusmodi non est lex (Galatians 5:22-23)
[123] Which canon reads: “The Bishop of Constantinople, however, shall have the prerogative of honour after the Bishop of Rome; because Constantinople is New Rome.”[124] Which canon reads: “If any of the clergy be found fasting on the Lord's Day, or on the Sabbath, excepting the one only, let him be deposed. If a layman, let him be excommunicated.”[125] Although typical English usage encounters the term Sacrament, the Greek term is more literally translated as Mystery, and can be used interchangeably.[126] Translated into English under the title: Augsburg and Constantinople: The Correspondence between the Tubingen Theologians and Patriarch Jeremiah II of Constantinople on the Augsburg Confession, by Rev. George Mastrantonis (Brookline, MA: Holy Cross Orthodox Press, 1982).[127] “Original Sin” is also an acceptable translation of the Greek.[128] The Sponsor or Godparent also says, Amen.[129] See, respectively, The Great Catechism, chapter 37, and The Exposition of the Faith, Book 4, chapter 13.[130] The original English translation includes here: “wherewith he was afflicted, not for his own, but for our transgressions”[131] τέλειον τὸν αἰώνιον μισθὸν, κατὰ τὰ ἔργα ὁποῦ ἔπραξεν[132] τὸν θάνατον, τὴν τελευταίαν κρίσιν, τὴν κόλασιν τοῦ ᾄδου, καὶ τὴν βασιλείαν τῶν οὐρανῶν τὴν αἰώνιον[133] As St. John of Damascus teaches: Prayer is an ascent of the mind to God, or the asking God for things which are fitting (On the Orthodox Faith, Book 3, Chapter 24).[134] This concluding phrase appears in English translations of the Bible which rely on the Textus Receptus.[135] The given location for this and the following quotation from St. John Chrysostom is from his homily on 1 Corinthians 15:28, but this could not be confirmed. -Editor’s note[136] See the Ninth Article of the Creed, on the Church, Questions 87-96.[137] This can be understood generally as wise or good judgment, and as such is related to wisdom or σοφία, here indicating such good character and practical ability as minds or discerns what ought to be done, when it ought to be done, and how it ought to be done, with clarity of purpose, and to the greatest good. It is opposed to rashness, impatience, and impetuousness. The Latin term is prudentia.[138] Indicating thoroughly righteous and true fairness, it is opposed to selfishness, favoritism, bias, partiality, superficiality, impressionistic evaluation, hasty generalization, and “unequal weights” and “dishonest scales” (Proverbs 20:23). The Latin term is iustitia.[139] This can also be understood as sound-mindedness, or sanity, and calm self-control, i.e. the ability to restrain oneself in thought, word, and deed, in light of balance, harmony, and integrity. It is opposed to lavishness, extravagance, severe or excessive austerity, hubris, arrogance, and foolish pride. The Latin term is temperantia.[140] Also courage, or the ability to withstand fear and uncertainty steadily and with a level disposition, it is opposed to timidity, cowardice, and the faint-heartedness that shrinks from righteous duty. The Latin term is fortitudo.[141] i.e. sin as a state of being, namely, the state of being “a sinner.” In this sense sin is that activity which is produced by a sinner, and not merely a post hoc label given to one who has sinned. This is the fallen state or condition of mankind after the fall of Adam.[142] An earlier Greek list included eight, later tradition combining the last two:Γαστριμαργία (gastrimargia) gluttony. Latin: gula 
Πορνεία (porneia) prostitution, fornication, lust. Latin: luxuria or fornicatio 
Φιλαργυρία (philargyria) avarice, greed. Latin: avaritia 
Λύπη (lypē) sadness, sorrow, despair, despondency (or envy, i.e. sadness at another’s good fortune). Latin: tristitia 
Ὀργή (orgē) wrath. Latin: ira 
Ἀκηδία (akēdia) acedia (or dejection). Latin: acedia 
Κενοδοξία (kenodoxia) boasting, vainglory. Latin: vanagloria 
Ὑπερηφανία (hyperēphania) pride, hubris, arrogance. Latin: superbia 
[143] Note that particular sinful acts arise from these more fundamental sinful dispositions, of pride, greed, lust, etc. The acts are therefore sin-full because they carry and express the energy of the more fundamental sinful disposition. The fundamental sin is, thus, in fact, that more fundamental disposition which gives rise to or energizes particular sinful actions. The mortal sin being like the trunk of a tree, sinful acts are like so many branches or leaves.[144] Other terms which can describe the state of this sin are spiritual dullness, indifference, apathy, laziness, sluggishness, unresponsiveness.[145] In other words, theological fatalism.[146] See footnote for Question 16.[147] Job 42:7-10: And it was so, that after the Lord had spoken these words unto Job, the Lord said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath. Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken of me the thing which is right, like my servant Job. So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according as the Lord commanded them: the Lord also accepted Job. And the Lord turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends: also the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before.[148] Which Ninth Canon reads: “All childish devices and mad ravings, the false writings that have been brought forth against the venerable icons, must be turned in to the Bishopric of Constantinople to be put away together with the rest of heretical books. If, on the other hand, anyone should be found hiding these, if he be a Bishop, a Presbyter, or a Deacon, let him be deposed from office; but if he be a layman or a monk, let him be excommunicated.”[149] Canon 90, from the Council at Trullo (692), also known as Quinisext, which is attributed to the Sixth Ecumenical Council by the Seventh, states: “We have received from our divine Fathers the canon law that in honour of Christ's resurrection, we are not to kneel on Sundays. Lest therefore we should ignore the fullness of this observance we make it plain to the faithful that after the priests have gone to the Altar for Vespers on Saturdays (according to the prevailing custom) no one shall kneel in prayer until the evening of Sunday, at which time after the entrance for compline, again with bended knees we offer our prayers to the Lord. For taking the night after the Sabbath, which was the forerunner of our Lord's resurrection, we begin from it to sing in the spirit hymns to God, leading our feast out of darkness into light, and thus during an entire day and night, we celebrate the Resurrection.”[150] A fact to be considered when endorsing political parties.[151] To such must be added also the careful use, regulation, and/or rejection, in whole or in part, of such modern electronic devices as television, video games, and the internet.[152] “So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets” (Matthew 7:12).