September 2010

How to Master the Challenges of Change
Review by Chris Lauer

SWITCH: HOW TO CHANGE THINGS WHEN CHANGE IS HARD
by Chip Heath and Dan Heath
Copyright © 2010, Broadway Books, 305 pages, $26.00, ISBN 978-0-385-52875-7
As two thought leaders who dwell at the juncture where research converges with daily life, Dan Heath and Chip Heath have mastered the language of change while adding many ideas of their own to the lexicon of shift. While digging under the surface of why change can often be so difficult, they have exposed a variety of easier ways we can accelerate and improve the change process.
Most changes are tough to accomplish because we are always engaged in a constant balancing act between our emotions and our logical brains. Promoting changes at home or new initiatives at work can be complicated tasks, but the Heath brothers have figured out how to simplify the steps of making change happen into some thoughtful visual images and ideas that can help us find a better way forward.
The Elephant and the Rider
One of the ideas that the co-authors describe in their latest book, Switch, is the wonderfully descriptive metaphor of the elephant and the rider, which they glean from psychologist Jonathan Haidt's book The Happiness Hypothesis.
The human brain is not simply an emotional hurricane

or strictly a rational machine, and the conflict between our emotions and logic is not a simple tug of war. Instead, the brain is like an elephant with a rider on top. Our emotional side is like a 20,000-pound elephant being tenuously controlled by a much smaller rider, who represents our rational side. The size difference makes it very difficult to be the rider, and struggling with an unruly animal can be very tiring. In the same way as the
rider needs a break after working to keep the elephant in check for any length of time, our brains get worn out from too much emotional strain and need some time to recover. The next time you are faced with an important decision remember that scientific research has found that holding back our emotions for too long can make us extremely susceptible to the powerful effects of our untamed emotions.
Initiate a Change
The theory works both ways, so if we want to change how other people behave we cannot forget that they have their own elephants and riders with which to contend. If you want to help people change their habits or initiate a change initiative in your workplace, keep in mind that you will need to address both their elephants and their riders when motivating them to change their work or their behavior.
That's just the type of metaphor that epitomizes the insights on change that the Heath brothers bring to light in Switch. While presenting several different ways of looking at problems in our personal and professional lives, and showing us how to put into practice the ideas

found in the latest research studies and product break-

have the authority or resources to simply command a

throughs, they help us improve our chances of success

change into existence. Filled with dozens of examples of

when change is needed to get us to a better place.

people at all levels who were able to implement and

The authors move the theoretical results of new scien- promote effective changes in their lives and organiza-

tific studies into helpful daily practices by providing an

tions, Switch presents guidance for anyone with a desire

easy-to-use framework on which to build any needed change. Taking the elephant-and-rider analogy to the

to make any type of change. The change principles the Heath brothers present throughout their book are uni-

next level, they turn it into a three-part framework that versal in scope and application.

explains the most important things to keep in mind when trying to wrangle our erratic elephants and their weary riders.
How You Can Shape Paths

Take Steps to Deal with Emotions
The second element in the Heath brothers' three-part framework for change is the idea that the elephant needs to be motivated. In other words, never forget about the

To start, the Heaths explain, if you want

emotional side of people's brains

to motivate people to make a change, embrace a change or become involved in a change, remember that they will need some help. Elephants and their riders benefit when you "shape the path" they are on. In other words, working with the environment in which you want a change to take place will make it easier for you to get

Switch presents guidance for anyone with a desire to make any type of change. The change principles the Heath brothers

when you are trying to make an appeal for change. The Heaths explain that sometimes what you are seeing when you are looking at the emotional response of others is not what it seems. Since there is always an emotional element to the choices people make, including a decision to

other people's riders and elephants moving in the right direction. The path is the situation you are in, and there are always ways

present ... are universal in scope and application.

change, it is useful to address those emotions when trying to motivate them to adopt a change in behavior.

that you can change a situation so people

For example, in Switch, the authors

will have more tools to help them stay on

describe a public health campaign in

course. Paths can come in a variety of forms, so keep

West Virginia that used social marketing methods to try

your eyes open for the unexpected ways you can

to reduce the consumption of whole and 2 percent milk,

smooth a route to the change you desire.

and increase the consumption of low-fat and no-fat milk

For example, movie popcorn can teach us something important about shaping paths. Studies show that if you

products. One way the Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI) sought to do this was by making people

give people larger buckets of popcorn at the movie the- aware of the massive amount of saturated fat that they

ater, they will eat more popcorn than people who are

could eliminate from their diet each year by simply

given smaller buckets of popcorn, even if the popcorn is switching from whole milk to 1 percent milk. To make

terrible. We might not want to eat more popcorn, and the emotional side of its appeal, the CSPI ran evocative

we might not even realize that we are eating more popcorn, but researchers have found that we tend to eat

television, newspaper and radio ads for two weeks. During one press conference, CSPI scientists demon-

more popcorn from giant tubs than from little buckets. And if you want people to eat less popcorn, telling them to eat less is not as effective as simply giving them a

strated the amount of fat in a half-gallon of whole milk by presenting a tube full of fat. This is the type of emotional appeal that gets people to take notice of a change

smaller bucket. What does this research teach us about change? By shaping a situation to motivate people to

that could really help them, the Heaths point out. The positive results of the group's media campaign showed

change their behavior, we get better results than we do that the "emotional elephant" had been greatly motivat-

by merely telling them to change how they act. The Heath brothers dedicate a large portion of Switch
to showing us how different types of people and organi-

ed, and the change in milk-purchasing behavior was still apparent after six months in both of the West Virginia communities where the media campaign took place.

zations have shaped the paths of others to help them facilitate changes. Although business leaders can benefit

The CSPI scientists are not the only people to use such an appeal to help people change their diets. The

greatly from its many lessons, one of the great things about Switch is that it is more than a how-to manual for

New York City Department of Health recently used similar emotion-laden imagery in its campaign to pro-

marketers. Switch is designed to help people who do not mote healthier choices among New York City residents.

2 Soundview Featured Book Review® www.summary.com

Public health officials wanted to help city residents

tle, but also stating the fact that soda has been proven to

become healthier by spreading the word that sodas and make people fatter helps to complete the formula for

other sweet drinks are part of an obesity epidemic.

helping people embrace the move from soda to a health-

Through posters placed in the city's subway system and ier choice.

in a multilingual health bulletin, the agency ran the campaign for three months in 2009. Knowing that vague appeals to become healthier are not as effective as more specific messages, the agency used emotional imagery to make its point. In the posters, a flowing drink from a soda bottle turns into disgusting blobs of yellowy, gelatinous fat by the time it reaches the overflowing glass below. The advertisement's copy asks readers, "Are you pouring on the pounds?" This question is followed by the simple admonition, "Don't drink your-

Tweaking the Environment
While trying to motivate other people to change, it is easy to imagine that the people who resist making the change are simply being defiant. But this can be a mistake. Studies show that sometimes the situation surrounding a change initiative is the culprit that is preventing people from making a desired change. By simply "tweaking the environment," the Heaths write, you can make your change initiative more effective.

self fat." Then it advises readers to "Cut

For example, the co-authors describe

back on soda and other sugary beverages. Go with water, seltzer or low-fat milk instead."

Be clear about the directions you give your

one study in which two groups of students are defined as either highly altruistic or unlikely to give to a charity. After

The poster campaign was so effective

people. Sometimes they both groups were given a request for a

that the agency created a matching video campaign in 2010, in which viewers see a man pour and drink globs

just need to know the facts so they know

canned food donation, the results of the canned-food drive were just as the researchers expected: Some of the

of flowing fatty fluid from a glass. Along

their emotions are

"saints" made the donation and none of

with the poster's tag line, a statistic is

leading them in the

the "jerks" gave a thing. But, when

added: "Drinking one can of soda a day can make you 10 pounds fatter a year."

right direction.

more specific and detailed instructions were given to both groups so they knew

Why did the ads have such an effective

exactly what, when and how to make

impact on the people who saw them? In

their donations, the researchers were

their Fast Company column describing the ads, the Heath surprised by their findings: Five times as many of the

brothers write, "Change comes from feeling, not facts.

"saints" made a donation and 25 percent of the "jerks"

Furthermore, the ad is masterfully simple: Sugary soda

also donated. In other words, one quarter of the worst

equals fat." With this combination of emotional and

donators were inspired to donate because they were sim-

rational appeals, the New York City Department of

ply given a little help along the way. This is just another

Health's ad campaign also followed the third part of the example of how a simple "tweak" to a situation can

Heaths' framework for change: "Direct the Rider."

guide people to change their behavior. The lesson here

is that what we think is a people problem might really

`Direct the Rider'

be a problem with the situation we've created. Since sit-

Getting back to the elephant-and-rider metaphor, the uations are usually easier to control than people, focus-

co-authors explain that motivating the elephant and

ing on the environment surrounding a change is a great

preparing the situation so change can be adopted more place to look for opportunities for improvement.

smoothly are only the first two parts of the three-prong

Another way to promote change and keep that change

approach they describe throughout Switch. The third element in their framework addresses the need to make

in place is to help people build better habits, the coauthors write. And since our environment deeply affects

a straightforward rational appeal as well.

our habits, a shift in our environment can make all the

Be clear about the directions you give your people.

difference when promoting a change in behavior. For

Sometimes they just need to know the facts so they

example, studies show that smokers often find it easier

know their emotions are leading them in the right

to stop smoking when they are on vacation. This is

direction. Without a clear look at the reality behind a

because there are fewer things around them that remind

change, people are likely to resist a change rather than

them of their usual smoking habits.

embrace it. We recognize that animal fat looks disgusting and makes us want to cringe when we see somebody drinking it out of a glass or pouring it out of a soda bot-

Action Triggers
Like shifting the environment or breaking a change down to specific actions, laying the "mental ground-

www.summary.com Soundview Featured Book Review® 3

work" for a change can also be a very effective way to Heaths have made a name for themselves as change

help people make a shift in their behavior. One exam- experts while honing their ability to translate the latest

ple of this is what researchers call an "action trigger." science, business research and real-world experiences

An action trigger, according to psychologist Peter

into applicable change strategies.

Gollwitzer, is something that sets off a preloaded deci-

Their first book, Made to Stick: Why Some Ideas

sion. This means trying to associate a

Survive and Others Die was an incredi-

common action with doing something

ble success for exactly the same reason

else that might be a little more difficult to motivate. For instance, one

Compelling case studies

that Switch is so compelling: It is fun to read. That's why Made to Stick spent

study showed that action triggers had a

coupled with clearly

25 months on the BusinessWeek

dramatic effect on the recovery time of patients who had undergone hip- or knee-replacement surgery. Those who

defined actions for getting the most from the latest

Bestseller List, became the top book in the Globe and Mail newspaper and has been translated into more than 24 lan-

were told to plan their therapeutic

science fill every chapter. guages. Stellar reviews in Time, People,

walks ahead of time -- by writing

the Washington Post and Psychology

down specifically when and where

Today turned Made to Stick into a

they planned to walk -- recovered in

worldwide hit.

half the time as those who did not write down their plans. According to Gollwitzer,

Stickiness

action triggers create "instant habits" that help people

By simplifying the ideas that anyone can use to pro-

adopt changes more quickly. New behaviors can be

mote change, whether it comes in the form of change

made into habits by applying this type of "behavioral

initiatives at work or efforts to change oneself, the

autopilot" to make the changes more likely.

Heath brothers have created a winning formula for

Switch is filled with a slew of strategies like these for getting change to stick. Compelling case studies coupled with clearly defined actions for getting the most from the latest science fill every chapter. Finally, after all of the examples and experiences are woven into a fascinating tapestry of change inspiration, the

enhancing the stickiness of the latest advances in behavioral and business sciences. While the work of Malcolm Gladwell follows a similar path into new science, as do the works of Steven Levitt and Stephen Dubner, the Heath brothers offer a relevancy and clarity of focus that surpass their predecessors.

Heath brothers offer a one-page cheat-sheet for recall-

Throughout all of their work, whether in their maga-

ing their advice on making a switch. Along with this

zine columns or their books, the Heath brothers trans-

useful document, the Heaths have also included a list

late the metaphors and studies from today's top scien-

of common obstacles to change and the ways they can tists into basic steps that can be used by anyone to safely

be overcome. These types of resources, along with all navigate a changing world of life and work that

of the stories that fill Switch from end to end, offer

becomes more complex every day.

readers dozens of lessons that can help them work

In Switch, Dan Heath and Chip Heath have translated

through any change initiative.

the best work and research on the subject of change

Made to Stick
The Heath brothers have obviously figured something out. As columnists for Fast Company magazine, the

into witty stories, pertinent lessons and illuminating images we can all use to improve our change-filled work and lives. G

The authors: Chip Heath is a professor at the Graduate School of Business at Stanford University. Dan Heath is a senior fellow at Duke University's Center for the Advancement of Social Entrepreneurship (CASE). Previously, he was a researcher and case writer at Harvard Business School, as well as the co-founder of a college textbook publishing firm called Thinkwell.

Published by Soundview Executive Book Summaries, P.O. Box 1053, Concordville, PA 19331 USA © 2010 Soundview Executive Book Summaries · All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or part is prohibited. Concentrated KnowledgeTM for the Busy Executive · www.summary.com September 2010 · Order #32V-TFS
4 Soundview Featured Book Review® www.summary.com

