Sn ennpaneemmemmernnnt ae 

Sa errr ganas foueimenie (ee Tan 
—————— ee Sr eerie esesane seman oe 

= SSeS ete dnssaeeemeeeeee eT TAP aeancenee per — 
= = ea . A Nea se 
== = a SS ie 


a 
———— 
— ener. 
—— a 
- 
a 
eye ee pba emens nye 
Sn NR cee — 
——— hoo = 
er ae 
Rn atm meinen oe 
a * 
Se - 
ee = 5 
re ee 
ee ee. —_— 
ee —-. 
— " 
pr eneueee-ssealiinie =— 
~— — = 
——— — im 
ee ee = 


ALISHAAINA NVILSIMHS 


IIVNNIONID 


[N09 xxl aq 


jo Areiqiy [euossed oy} WOT 


" SANCTIFICATION, © 


OPENED IN 


Sundry Practical Directions, ‘ 


» 


_~i&BY THE REV. WALTER MARSHALL, 


Formerly Fellow of New College, Oxford, nnd afterwards Fellow 
of Winchester College. 


G. M. Elliott Library 
Cincinnati Christian University 


~~~-~2700-Glenway Ave 
Cincinnati, OH idee ‘ 


| 


GLASGOW: 


RECOMMENDATION 


PREFIXED TO 


? THE SIXTH EDITION. 


‘To THE BooKsELLER, 
Sir, 


Tr gives me no small pleasure to hear that you 
are going to re-publish Mr. Marshall’s Gospel Mystery 
of Sanctification.* The instruction, consolation, and 
spiritual improvement, which I myself have received 
Bor that solid and judicious Treatise, excite in me a 
pleasing hope that it may be equally instructive and 
advantageous to others. 

: The recommendation of it in Theron and Aspasio, 
| with which you propose to introduce the new edition, 
is at your service. To this proposal I consent the 
. more readily, because Mr. Marshall's book may be 
» looked upon as no improper supplement to those 
Dialogues and Letters. The author of which intended 
to have closed his plan with a Dissertation on Prac- 
tical Holiness, or Kvangelical Obedience. But this 


under his hands, far beyond his expectation. 

_ He has been advised once more to resume the 
pen, and treat that grand subject with some degree 
of copiousness and particularity. If he should be 


tis said by the very best judge of propriety. de sacred writing, 
t is the mystery of godliness! 1 Tim. iii. 36. "This passage, I pre- 

fr.. Marshall had in his view, when he pitched upon a ?it/e for 
id this passage will render it superior to all censure, un- 
bly just and proper, i 


iv 


enabled to execute what he acknowledges to be ex- 
po the doctrines already discussed, and the privi- 
eges already displayed, will furnish the principal 
materials for his Essay. Justification, free justifi- 
cation, through the Righteousness of Jesus’ Christ, is 
the sacred fleece from which he would spin his thread, 
and weave his garment, agreeably to that important 
text, ye are bought with a price, therefore glorif. 
God.*—If Providence, in all things wise, and in all 
things gracious, should see fit to withhold either time 
or ability for the accomplishment of my purpose; I 
do, by these presents, nominate and depute Mx. Mar- 
swat to supply my lack of service. 

Mr. Marshall expresses my thoughts ; he proseeutes 
my scheme ; and not only pursues the same end, but 
proceeds in the same way. I shall therefore rejoice 
in the prospect of having the Gospel Mystery of Sane- 
tification stand as a fourth volume to Theron and 
Aspasio. Might I be allowed, without the charge of 
irreverence, to use the beautiful images of an inspired 
writer, I would with great satisfaction say, if this he a 
wall, that will build upon it a palace of ivory; if this 
be a door, that will enclose it with boards of cedar.t 

Mr. Marshall represents true holiness as consisting 
in the love of God, and the love of man ;—that un- 
forced, unfeigned, and most rational love of God, 
which arises from a discovery of his unspeakable 
mercy and infinite kindness to us; that cordial, dis- 
interested, and universal love of man, which flows 
from the possession of a satisfactory and Weed 
portion in the Lord Jehovah. These duties of love 
to our Creator and: our fellow-creatures, are regarded 
as the sum and substance of the moral law; as the 
fountain from which all other good works and eve: 
instance of acceptable obedience flow. Holiness, thus 
stated, is considered, not as the means, but as a pa 
a distinguished part of our salvation ; or rather, 


* 1 Cor, vi. 20. + Cant, viii 


’ very central point, in which all the means of grace, 
and all the ordinances of religion, terminate. 
Man, in a natural state, is absolutely incapable of 
penne this holiness, or enjoying this happiness.— 
f you ask what is meant by a natural state? It is 
that state in which we are under the guilt of sin, and 
the curse of the law; are subject to the power of 
Satan, and influenced by evil propensities. From 
this state none are released but by being united to 
Christ ; or, as the Apostle speaks, by Christ dwelling 
in the heart through faith.* 
Faith, according to Mr. Marshall, is a real persua- 
sion, that God is pleased to give Christ and his salva- 
tion ; to give him frecly, without any recommending 
qualifications, or peremptory conditions ; to give him, 
not to some sinners only, but to me a sinner in parti- 
cular.—It is likewise an actual receiving of Christ, 
with all the benefits, privileges, and promises of the 
gospel, in pursuance of the divine gift, and on no 
other warrant than the divine grant. This last office 
- is particularly insisted on, as an essential part, or as 
the principal act of faith ; to perform which, there is 
no rational, no possible way, (our Author declares) 
unless we do, in some measure, persuade and assure 
ourselves,t that Christ and his salvation are ours, 
As faith is such a persuasion of the heart, and such 
- areception of Christ, it assures the soul of salvation 
by its own act; antecedent to all reflection on its 


* Eph. iii. 17. 

_. + It is not, by this expression, affirmed or insinuated, that we are 
able to produce faith in ourselves, by any power of our own. This 
self-sufficiency the Author has professedly and frequently disclaimed ; 
asserting “that the Spirit of God habitually disposes and inclines our 
hearts to a right performance of this most important act.’’ This 
manner of speaking is used, I imagine, for two reasons. To point out 
the first and chief work, which we are to be doing incessantly and 
assiduously, till our Lordcome. ‘To remind us that we must not ex- 
have faith wrought in us, by some fatality of supernatural 
without any application or endeavour of our own; but that 
make it our diligent endeavour, and our daily business, to 
Christ. We must labour to enter into this rest, and shew 
the full assurance of hope. 


A2 


vi 


fruits or effects, on marks oy evidence. It assures the 
soul of acquittance from guilt and of reconciliation to _ 
God ; of a title to the everlasting inheritance, and of 
grace sufficient for every case of need. By the exer- 
cise of this faith, and the enjoyment of these blessings, 
we are sanctified. Conscience is pacified, and the 
heart purified. We are delivered from the dominion 
of sin; disposed to holy tempers, and furnished for 
an holy practice. 

Here, apprehend, our Author will appear singular. 
This is the place in which he seems to go quite out of 
the common road. The generality of serious people 
look upon these unspeakable blessings as the reward 
of holiness; to be received after we have sincerely ~ 
practised universal holiness; not as necessary p7e- 
viously necessary, to perform any act of true holiness. 
This is the stumbling-block, which our legal minds, 
dim with prejudice, and swollen with pride, will 
hardly get over.\ However, these endowments of our 
new state are, in our Author’s opinion, the effectual, 
and the only effectual expedient, to produce sanctifi- 
cation, They are the very method which the Eternal 
Spirit has ordained for our bringing forth those fruits 
of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ unto the 
glory and praise of God.* Whereas, if there be any 
appearances of virtue, or any effects of obedience, 
which spring not from these motives and means of 
practice, Mr. Marshall treats them as “reprobate 
silver.” He cannot allow them the character of 
Gospel holiness, ; 

This is the plan, and these are the leading senti- 
ments of the ensuing Treatise. To establish or defend 
them is not my aim; this is attempted, and I think 


executed in the work itself. My aim is, only to ex- — 


hibit the most distinguishing principles in one shor 
sketch, and clear point of view, that the read aeey 
the more easily remember them, and, by Vy 


* Phil. i. 11. 


_ enter the more perfectly imto the writer’s meaning, 
_ Let him that is spiritual,* judge, and reject, or admit, 
as each tenet shall appear to correspond, or disagree 
_ with the infallible Word. Only let candour, not 
rigour fill the chair, and interpret an unguarded ex- 
pression, or a seemingly inconsistent sentence, by the 
general tenour of the discourse. 

We are not to expect much pathos of address, or 
any delicacy of composition. Here the Gospel dia- 
mond is set, not in gold, but in steel ; not where it 
ay rey the most sprightly beam, or pour a flood of 
brillianey, but where it may do the most signal ser- 
vice, and afford a fund of usefulness. Neither is this 
_ book so particularly calculated for careless, insensible 

sinners, as for those who are awakened into a solici- 
_ tous attention to their everlasting interests ; who are 
earnestly enquiring with the Phillipian Jailor, What 
shall I do to be saved ?+ Or passionately crying, in the 
_ language of the Apostle, O wretched man that I am! 
_ who shall deliver me from the body of this death !} 
- If there be any such, and no doubt there are many 
in the Christian world, I would say with regard to 
them, as the Israelitish captive said, concerning her 
illustrious but afflicted master, would God my master 
were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for he 
would recover him from his leprosy.§ O that such 
ersons were acquainted with the doctrines, and in- 
Huenced by the directions contained in this Treatise ! 
They would, under the Divine blessing, recover them 
from their distress, and restore them to tranquillity ; 
they would comfort their hearts, and thereby estab- 
lish them in every good word and wort 
But I am going to anticipate what the following 
tract speaks. 1 shall therefore only add my hearty 

that you may meet with encouragement and 
ss in the publication of this truly valuable piece ; 
or, ii. 15. ft Acts xvi. 30. t Rom. vii. 24. 
§ 2 Kings y. 3, || 2 Thess, xi, 17, 

’ hi 


vili 


since there is, in this instance, an evident connexion 
between your private interest and the general good. 
L think, you may promise yourself the approbation 
and acceptance of the public; as you will assuredly 
have all support and assistance, that can be given by, 


Sir, 
Your humble Servant, 
JAMES HERVEY. 


Weston Favel, near Northampton, 
5th Noy. 1756. 


“Tt is with great pleasure, and without any diffi- 
dence, that I refer my readers to Mr. Marshall’s 
Treatise on Sanctification ; which I shall not recom- 
mend in the style of a critic, nor like a person of 
taste, but with all the simplicity of the weakest 
Christian ; I mean from my own experience. It has 
been made one of the most useful books to my heart. 
I scarce ever fail to receive spiritual consolation and 


strength from the perusal of it. And was I to be 


banished into some desolate Island, possessed only of 
two books, besides my Bible, this should be one of 
the two, perhaps the first that I would choose. 

Should any person, hitherto a stranger to the work, 
purchase it on this recommendation, I must desire to 
suggest one caution ; that he be not surprised, if, in 
the beginning, he meets with something new, and 
quite out of the common road ; or, if surprised, that 
he would not be offended, but calmly and attentively 
proceed. He will find the Author’s design opening 
itself by degrees. He will discern more and more the 
propriety of his method. And what might, at the 
first view, appear like a stumbling-block, will prove 
to be a fair and ample avenue—to the palace of truth 
—to the temple of holiness—and to the bowers of 
happiness.’”’ 


See the third edition of Harvey's Theron and Aspasio, vol, 3rd., 
page 336, DR: 


ix 


To the former editions were prefixed several re- 

~ commendations. 

The first of them is signed by N. N. and dated Jul 

_ 21, 1692, importing, “That Mr. Walter Marshall, 
(the Author of these Directions,) was educated in 
New College, Oxford, was a Fellow of the said 
College, and afterwards chosen a Fellow of the 
College at Winchester. From thence he removed to 
Gosport in Hampshire-—Having been much exer- 
cised, and for many years, with troubled thoughts ; 
he had, by many mortifying methods, sought peace 
of conscience ; but, notwithstanding all, his troubles 
still increased. Whereupon he consulted several 
eminent Divines, who told him, he understood the 
Seriptures too legally. Upon giving one of them an 
account of the state of his soul, and particularizing 
his sins, which lay heavy on his conscience, the 

_ Divine told him he had forgot to mention the greatest 
_ sin of all, the sin of unbelief, in not believing on the 

_ Lord Jesus Christ for remission of his sins and sancti- 
fication of his nature. Hereupon he set himself to 
studying and preaching Christ, and attained to emi- 

. nent Lotions, and great peace of conscience.” 

Mr. Marshall’s dying words were, the wages of sin 
is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through 
Jesus Christ our Lord; “having just before said to 
those about him, that he now died in the full per- 
suasion of the truth, and in the comfort of that doc- 
trine which he had preached, The sum of which is 
contained in this Treatise on Sanctification; where 
we have the profound experience of a studious and 

_ holy man, coming from his very heart. The whole 
 savours of no party, nor prosecutes any narrow design ; 
but aims at the cultivation of holiness, and the estab- 
lishment of happiness.” 

_ A new recommendation was prefixed to the edition 

hed: in 1733, and signed by six judicious Mini- 

, importing, “That they had perused the book 

th g eat edification and no small pleasure ; that they 


yt! 


\ Ae av + 7 


x ae 


judged the publication very seasonable for promoting 
practical religion and godliness, and for giving a just 
view of the great difference there is between the mo- 
rality of the heathens, (though adorned with the finest 
touches of human rhetoric) and true gospel holiness, 
without which, St. Paul has declared, no man shall 
see the Lord.”—This their united opinion is corrobo- 
rated by the testimony of Mr. Robert Trail, of London. 

cod think (says that evangelical writer) Mr. Mar- 
shall’s Treatise on the Mystery of Santification, by 
faith in Jesus Christ, is such a vindication and con- 
firmation of that Protestant doctrine, against which 
I fear no effectual opposition, Myr. Marshall was a 
holy and retired man, known to the world only by 
this book, which is deep, practical, and well connected 
—requiring a more than ordinary attention to read it 
with profit. And if it be attentively used, I look | 
upon it to be one of the most useful books the public 
has seen for many years. Its excellence is, that it 
leads the serious reader directly to Jesus Christ, 
cutting the sinews and overturning the foundations 
of the new and fashionable divinity, by the same 
argument of Gospel holiness by which many attempt 
to overturn the old and scriptural baie. ; 

Another recommendation of this Author by Mr. 
Gib of Edinburgh, was prefixed to the edition, pub- 
lished Dec. 21st, 1744, wherein he observes, ‘ That 
among the professors of a religious course, there are 
two sorts; the first of them still adhere to a legal 
scheme of holiness, vainly making that, and not 
Christ Jesus, the reason of their peace and hope— 
while the other sort are reconciled to the evangelical 
scheme of holiness, making holiness and obedience 
the result of their peace and hope, as already founded 
on Christ, freely offered to them in the gospel. 

The correction which the first of these sorts ought 
to have, and the instruction in righteousness which — 
both of them need, may be had in a peculiar manner 
from this book; and for these purposes t 


earnestly entreated to read it, not in parts but 
completely, and in the same order in which it is 
written: that so the legal readers may not, from 
looking first into’ the latter part, throw it aside as 
Antinomian ; nor the evangelical readers, from look- 
ing only into the former part, throw it aside as too 
legal—tIn short, I despair that any should reap 
true benefit from a partial, or confused reading; 
but firmly believe, that from an attentive and regular 
perusal, excellent fruit may “be gathered; since no 
Author appears to be better acquainted with the 
‘state and working of the human heart, or with the 
peculiarities and riches of the Christian dispensation,” 


TEXTS OF SCRIPTURE, 


MORE OR LESS~ 


ILLUSTRATED IN THIS WORK, 


Genesis ii. 17. 
Job i. 5. 

Eccles. vii. 16, 29. 
Isaiah xxxyiii. 3. 
— 1. 10. 
Jerem. xxxi. 29, 30. 
Hosea xi. 4. 
Matt. v. 12, 

vi. 12, 15, 
ix. 14,15. 
Mark i. 15. 

Luke xiii. 24. 
——— xiv. 23. 
John i. 16. 

Rom. i. 5. 

ii. 6. 
—— iii. 25. 

iv. 5. 

vii. 1. 


——_—— 6. 


vill. 3. 


Rom. vii. 8. 
——-- 23, 
1 Cor. xi. 29. 
2 Cor. viii. 12. 
—— xiii. 5. 
Ephes. i. 3. 


—— vi. 18. 

1 Tim. i. 8. 

ii. 8. 

Heb. x. 10, 14, 18. 
————_ 22. 

p stot (5 
James ii, 14, 15. 
——— - 24. 

1 John iii. 9. 
Rey. xxii, 12. 


THE 


GOSPEL MYSTERY OF SANCTIFICATION, 


DIRECTION I. 


THAT we may acceptably perform the duties of holiness and righteous- 
ness required in the Jaw, our first work is, to learn the powerful 
and effectual means whereby we may attain to so great an end. 


EXPLICATION. 


Tus direction may serve instead of a Preface, to pre- 
_ pare the understanding and attention of the reader for 
those that follow. And, 
First, It acquainteth you with the great end for 
_ which all those means are designed, that are the prin- 
cipal subject to be here treated of. ‘The scope of all 
is, to teach you how you may attain to that practice 
and manner of life which we call holiness, righteous- 

ness, or godliness, obedience, true religion; and which 
God requireth of us in the law, particularly in the 
_ moral law summed up in the Ten Commandments, 
_ and more briefly in those two great commandments 


14 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY 


piety and charity, but in the holy thoughts, imagina- 
tions, and affections of the soul, and chiefly im love ; 
from whence all other good works must flow, or else 
they are not acceptable to God: not only in refrain- 
ing the execution of sinful lusts, but in longing and 
delighting to do the will of God, and in a cheerful 
obedience to God, without repining, fretting, grudg- 
ing at any duty, as if it were a grievous yoke 
burden to you. 

Take notice farther, that the law which is your 
mark, is exceeding bread,* and yet not the more 
_ easy to be hit; because you must aim to hit it, in 
every duty of it, with a performance of equal breadth, 
or else you cannot hit it at all.t} The Lord is not at 
all loved with that love that is due to him as lord of ~ 
all, if he be not loved with all our heart, spirit, and 
might. We are to love every thing in him, his jus- 
tice, Loliness, sovereign authority, all-seeing eye, and 
all his decrees, commands, judgments, and all his do- 
ings. We are to love him not only better than other 
things, but singly, as only good, the fountain of all 
goodness; and to reject all fleshly and worldly en- | 
joyments, even our own lives, as if we hated them, 
when they stand in competition with our We eed 
ot him, or our duty towards him. We must love him 
so as to yield ourselves wholly up to his constant 
service in all things, and to his disposal of us as our 
absolute lord, whether it be for prosperity or adver- 
sity, life or death. And for his sake, we are to love 
our neighbour, even all men, whether they be friends © 
or foes to us; and so do to them in all things that 
concern their honour, life, chastity, worldly wealth, 
credit, and content, whatever we would that men 
sliould do to us in the like condition.[ Thisspiritual — 
uniyersal obedience is the great end to the attamment 
whereof I am directing you. And that you may1 


id 
* Psa, cxix. 96. 


— =) 


OF SANCTIFICATION. 15 


_ reject mine enterprise as impossible, observe, that the 
most I promise, is no more than an acceptable per- 
formance of these duties of the law, such as our 
gracious and merciful God will certainly delight in, 
and be pleased with, during our state of imperfection 
in this world, and such as will end in perfection of 
holiness, and all happiness, in the world to come. 
Before I proceed further, stay your thoughts a 
while in the contemplation of the great dignity and 
excelleney of these duties of the law,.that you may 
aim at the performance of them as your end, with so 
high an esteem as may cast an amiable lustre upon 
the ensuing discovery of the means. The principal 
duties of love to God above all, and to each other for 
- his sake, from whence all the other duties flow, are so 
excellent, that I cannot imagine any more noble work 
for the holy angels in their glorious sphere, They 
are the chief works for which we were at first framed 
in the image of God, engraven upon man in the first 
_ ereation, and for which that beautiful image is re- 
 newed upon us in our new creation and sanctification 
' by Jesus Christ, and shall be perfected in our glorifi- 
cation, They are works which depend not merely on 
the sovereignty of the will of God, to be commanded 
or forbidden, or left indifferent, or changed, or abo- 
lished at his pleasure, as other works that belong 
either to the judaical or ceremonial law, or to the 
means of salvation prescribed by the gospel ; but they 
- are, in their own nature, holy, just, and good,* and 
meet for us to perform, because of our natural relation 
to our Creator and fellow-creatures; so that they 
have an inseparable dependence upon the holiness of 
_ the will of God, and an indispensable establishment 
yy. They are works sufficient to render the 
erformers holy in all manner of conversation, by the 
ruits which they bring forth, if no other duties had 
commanded; and by which the perfor- 


_* Rom, vii. 12. 


YO aa hae oe St ae 
: ea ees 4 al 


/ 
16 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. I. 


mance of all other duties is sufficiently established as. 
soon as they are commanded, and without which 
there can be no holiness of heart and life imagined ; 
and to which it was one great honour of Mosaieal, 
and is now of Evangelical ordinances, to be subservient 
for the performance of them, as means, which shall 
cease when their end, this never-failing charity, is 
perfectly attained.* They are duties which we were 
naturally obliged to, by that reason and understand- 
ing which God gave to man at his first creation, to 
discern what was just and meet for him to do, and to 
which even heathens are still obliged, by the light of 
nature, without any written law or supernatural 
revelation.t Therefore they are called natural reli- 
gion, and the law that requireth them, is called the 
natural law, and also the moral law; because the 
manners of all men, Infidels as well as Christians, 
ought to be conformed to it, and if they haye been 
fully conformable, they would not have come short 
of eternal happiness, } under the penalty of the wrath 
of God for the violation of it. This is the true mo- 
rality which God approveth of, consisting in a con- | 
formity of all our actions to.the moral law. And if 
those that, in these days, do contend so highly for 
morality, do understand no other than this, I dare 
join with them in asserting that the best morally 

onest man is the greatest saint; and that moralit; 
is the principal part of the religion, and the test of all 
other parts, without which faith is dead, and all other 
religious performances are a vain shew, and mere hy- 
ey: for the faithful and true witness hath testi- 
ied concerning the two great moral commandments 
of love to God and our neighbour, that there is none 
other commandment greater than these, and that on 
them hang: all the law and the prophets.§ 

The second thing contained in this mtroductory 


*1Cor. xiii, | Rom. ii. 14,15. ¢ Matt. v.19. Luke x. 27,28, 


§ Matt. xxii, 6,38—40. Mark xii. 31. te 


Direct. I. OF SANCTIFICATION. 17 


_ direction, is the necessity of learning the powerful and 
effectual means whereby this great and excellent end 
may be accomplished, and of making this the first 
work to be done, before we can expect success in any 
attempt for the attainment of it. 

This is an advertisement very needful; because 
many are apt to skip over the lesson concerning the 
means (that will fill up this whole Treatise) as super- 
fluous and useless. en.once ther know the nature 
and excellency of the duties of the law, they account 
nothing wanting but diligent performances, and they 
rush blindly upon immediate practice, making more 
haste than good speed. They are quick in promising :* 
All that the Lord hath spoken we will do, without sit- . 
ting down and counting the cost. They look upon 
holiness as only the means of an end, eternal salva- 
tion ; not as an end itself requiring any great means 
for attaining the practice of it. The.enquiry of most, 
when they begin to have a sense of religion, is, What 
oe thing shall I do that I may have eternal life ?+ 

ot—How shall I be enabled to do any thing that is 
good? Yea, many that are accounted powerful 
preachers, spend all their zeal in the earnest pressing 
the immediate practice of the law, without any dis- 
covery of the effectual means of performance ; as if 
the works of righteousness were like those servile 

- employments, that need no skill and artifice at all, 

but industry and activity. That you may not stum- 

ble at the threshold of a religious life by this common 
oversight, I shall endeavour to make you sensible that 
it is not enough for you to know the matter and rea- 
son of your duty, but that you are also to learn the 
powerful and effectual means of performance, before 
you can successfully apply yourselves to immediate 
tice. And, for this end, I shall lay before you 
the considerations following : 

‘st, 


18 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. I. 


and ability to perform acceptably that holiness and 
righteousness which the law requireth, and are dead 
in trespasses and sins, and children of wrath, by the 
sin of our first father Adam, as the scripture witnes- 
seth.* This doctrine of original sin, which Protes- 
tants generally profess, is a firm basis and ground-work 
to the assertion now to be proved, and to many other 
assertions in this whole discourse. If we believe it to 
be true, we cannot rationally encourage ourselves to 
attempt a holy practice, until we are acquainted with 
some powerful and effectual means to enable us for it. 
While man continued upright in the image of God, 
as he was at first created,t he could do the will of 
God sincerely as soon as he knew it; but when he 
was fallen, he was quickly afraid, because of his na- 
kedness, but could not help it all, until God disco- 
vered to him the means of restoration.{[ Say to a 
strong healthy servant, Go, and he goeth; Come, and 
he cometh; Do this, and he doeth it; but a bed-rid- 
den servant must know first how he may be enabled. 
No doubt the fallen angels know the necessity of | 
holiness, and-tremble at the guilt of their sin; but 
they know of no means for them to attain to holiness 
effectually, and so continue still in their wickedness, 
It was in vain for Samson to say, I will go out as at 
other times before, and shake myself, when he had 
sinned away his strength.§ Men shew themselves 
strangely forgetful or hypocritical, in professing 
original sin in their prayers, catechisms, and confes- 
sions of faith ; and yet urging upon themselves and 
others, the practice of the law, without the consider- 
ations of any strengthening, enlivening means ; as if 
there were no want of ability, but only of activity. 
Secondly. Those that doubt of, or deny the doctrine 
of original sin, may all of them know concerning 


* Rom. v. 12, 15, 18,19. Eph. ii. 1, 2,3. Rom. viii. 7, 8. 
t Eccles. vii. 29. Gen. i. 27. t Gen, ili. 10, 
§ Judges xvi. 20. i 


a 


. Direct. I. OF SANCTIFICATION. 19 


themselves, (if their conscience be not blind) that the 
exact justice of God is against them, and they are 
_ under the curse of God, and sentence of death, for 
their actual sins, if God should enter into judgment 
_ with them.* Is it possible for a man that knoweth 
_ this to be his case, and hath not learned any means 
Of “pene out of it, to practise the law immediately, 
to love God and every thing in him, his justice, holi- 
ness, power, as well as his-merey, and to yield him- 
~ self willingly to the disposal of God, though God 
should inflict sudden death upon him? Is there no 
skill or artifice at all required in this case, to encour- 
e the fainting soul to the practice of universal 
_ obedience? : 

Thirdly, Though heathens might know much of 
the work of the law by the common light of natural 
reason and understanding,t yet the effectual means of 
performance cannot be discovered by that light, and 

_ therefore are wholly to be learned by the teaching of 
_ supernatural revelation, For what is our natural 
light, but some sparks and glimmerings of that which 
was in Adam before the fall? And, even then, in its 
brightest meridian, it was not sufficient to direct 
_ Adam how to recover ability to walk holily, if once 
he should lose it by sin; nor to assure him beforehand 
_ that God would vouchsafe to him any means of re- 
_ covery. God hath set nothing but death before his 
eyes in case of transgression,} and therefore he hid 
himself from God when the shame of his nakedness 
appeared, as expecting no favour from him. We are 
ihe sheep gone astray, and know not which way to 
return, until we hear the Shepherd’s voice. Can 
_ these dry bones live to God in holiness? O Lord, 
thou knowest, and we cannot know it, except we 
mn it of thee. 
rthly. Sanctification, whereby our hearts and 


. 


i, 2, and iii. 9. Gal. ifi, 10, 7 Rom, li, 14, 
a t Gen, ii, 17, } 


ma aN 


/ , * 


20 TH E GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, I 


lives are comformed to the law, is a grace of God 
communicated to us by means, as well as justification ; 
and by means of teaching and learning something that 
we cannot see without the word.* 'There®%are several 
things pertaining to life and godliness, that are given 
through knowledge.t There is a form fof doctrme 
made use of by God, to make people free from sin 
and servants of righteousness.{ And there are severa 
i of the whole armour of God necessary to be 
known and put on, that we may stand against sin and 
Satan in the evil day.§ Shall we slight and overlook 
the way of sanctification, when the learning the way 
of justification had been accounted worth so many 
elaborate treatises. 

Fifthly, God hath given, in the holy seriptures, 
by his inspiration, plentiful instruction in righteous- 
ness, that we may be thoroughly furnished for every 
good work,|| especially since the day-spring from on 
high hath visited us, by the appearance of the Lord 
Jesus Christ, to guide our feet in the way of peace. 
If God condescend to us very low, to teach us this 
way in the scriptures, and by Christ himself, it must 
needs be greatly necessary for us to sit down at his 
feet and learn it. E 

Siathly, The way of attaining to godliness is so far 
from being known without learning out of the holy 
scriptures, that when it is here plainly revealed, we 
cannot learn it so easily as the duties of the law; 
which are known in part by the light of nature, and 
therefore more easily assented to. It is the way 
whereby the dead are brought to live unto God; and 
therefore doubtless it is far above all the thoughts and 
conjectures of human wisdom. It is the way to sal- 
vation, wherein God will destroy the wisdom of the 
wise, and bring to nothing the understanding of the 
prudent, by discovering things by his spirit, that the 


* Acts xxvi. 17, 18. + 2 Peter i. 2, 3. Pay 
§ Eph. vi. 13, 2 Tim, ii}. 16,1%. 9 


4 


oor) Se rr ‘ hin 


Direct. I, OF SANCTIFICATION. 21 


natural man receiveth not: for they are foolishness to 
him, neither can he know them, because they are 
aoa discerned.* Without controversy, great is 
the mystery of godliness.t The learning of it requir- 
eth double work; because we must unlearn many of 
our former deeply-rooted notions, and beccme fools 
that we may be wise. We must pray earnestly to the 
Lord to teach us, as well pee 3 the scriptures, that 
we may get this knowledge. “O that my ways were 
directed to keep thy statutes! Teach me, O Lord, 


the way of thy statutes, and I shall keep it unto the 


end.{ Teach me to do thy will.§ The Lord direct 
your hearts unto the love of God.”|| Surely these 
saints did not so much want teaching and direction 
concerning the duties of the law to be done, as con- 
tag the way and means whereby they might do 
them. ‘ 

Seventhly, The certain knowledge .of these power- 
ful and effectual means, is of greatest importance and 
necessity for our establishment in the true faith, and 

_ ayoiding errors contrary thereto; for we cannot ra- 
tionally doubt that the moral duties of love to God 
and our neighbour are absolutely necessary to true 
religion, so that it cannot subsist without them. And, 
from this principle, we may firmly conclude, that 

_ nothing repugnant to the practice of these holy duties 
_ ought to be received as a point of faith delivered up to 
us by the most holy God; and that whatsoever is 
truly necessary, powerful, and effectual to bring us to 
_ the practice of them, ought to be believed as proceed- 
__ ing from God, because it hath the image of his holi- 
hess and righteousness engraven upon it. ‘This is a 
a ‘sure test and touchstone, which those that are seri- 
_ ously religious will use, to try spirits and their doc- 
trines, whether they be of God or no: and they 
cannot rationally approve any doctrine as religious, 


- 


1 Cor, i. 19, 21, andii.14. 1 Tim. ii. 16. — t Psal. exix. 5, 33. 
- § Peal. exliii. 10. || 2 Thess. iii, 8 


22 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY = —-_ Diveet. I. 


that is not according to godliness.* By this touch- 
stone Christ proveth his doctrine to be of God, be- 
cause therein he secketh the glory of God.f And he 
teacheth us to know false prophets by their fruits, 
wherein the fruits which their doctrine tendeth unto, 
are especially to be considered. Hence it appeareth 


that, until we know what are the effectual means of ~ 


holiness, and what not, we want a necessary touch- 
stone of divine truth, and may be easily deceived by 
false doctrine, or brought to live in mere suspense 
concerning the truth of any religion, like the seekers, 
And, if you mistake, and think those means to be 
effectual that are not, and those that are effectual to 
be weak, or of a contrary effect, your. error in this 


will be a false touchstone to try other doctrines, ~ 


whereby you will readily approve of errors and refuse 
the truth; which hath been a pernicious occasion of 


many errors in religion in late days. Get but a true — 


touchstone, by learning this lesson, and you will be 
able to try the various doctrines of Protestants, Pa- 
pists, Arminians, Socinians, Antinomians, Quakers; 
and to discover the truth, and cleave to it, with much 
satisfaction to your judgment, amongst all the jang- 
lings and controversies of these times. Hereby you 
may discover whether the Protestant religion estab- 
lished among us, have in it any sinews of Antinomi- 
anism ; whether it be guilty of any insufferable defect 
in practical principles, and deserves to be altered and 
turned almost upside down, with new doctrines and 
methods; as some learned men in late times have 
judged by their touchstones. 


Eighthly, It is also of great importance and necessity — 


for our establishment in holy practice ; for we cannot 
apply ourselves to the practice of holiness with hope 
of success, except we have some faith concerning the 
divine assistance, which we have no ground to expect, 


if we use not such means as God hath appointed to — 


*1 Tim. vi.2 John vii. 17,18. # Matt. vii, 3 


Direct. I. OF SANCTIFICATION. 23 


work by. “God mecteth them that remember him 
in his own ways,* and makes a breach upon them 
that seek him not after the due order.”’*+ He hath 
chosen and ordained such means of sanctification and 
salvation as ave for his own glory, and those only he 
blesseth to us, and he crowneth no man that striveth, 
except he strive lawfully.{ Experience sheweth 
plentifully, both of heathens and Christians, how per- 
hicious ignorance, or mistaking of these effectual 
means, is to a holy practice. ~ The heathens generally 
fell short of an acceptable performance of those duties 
of the law which they knew, because of their ignorance 
int his point. (1) Many Christians content themselves 
with external performances, because they never knew 
how they might attain to spiritual service. (2) And 
many reject the way of holiness as austere and un- 
pleasant, because they know not how to cut off a 
right-hand, or pluck outa right eye, without intoler- 
able pain ; whereas they would find the ways of wis- 
dom i they knew them) to be ways of pleasantness, 
and all her paths to be peace.§ This occasioneth the 


__ putting off repentance from time to time, as an uncouth 


| 


¥ 


thing. (3) Many others set upon the practice of 
holiness with a fervent zeal, and run very fast ; but 
tread not a step in the right way ; and finding them- 
selves fequent’: disappointed and overcome by their 
lusts, they at ibak give over the work, and turn to 
wallow again in the mire: which bath occasioned 
several treatises, to shew how far a reprobate may go 
in the way of religion ; whereby many weak saints 
are discouraged, accounting that these reprobates 
have gone further than themselves; whereas most of 
them never knew the right way, nor trod one ste 

aright in it—for few there he that find it.|| (4) Some 
of these ignorant zealots doinhumanly macerate their 


bodies with fasting and other austerities, to kill their 


' - * Isa, Ixiy. 5. - #1 Chron. xy. 2. $2 Tim. ii. 5, 


Fea.ee § Prov. iii. 17. || Matt. vii. 


o 


24 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. IT. 


lusts ; and when they see their Insts are still too hard 
for them, they fall into despair, and are driven, by 
horror of conscience, to make away with themselves 
wickedly, to the scandal of religion. Peradventure 
God may bless my discovery of the powerful means 
of holiness so far, as to save some one or other from 
killing themselves. And such a fruit as this would 
countervail my labour; though I hope God will en- 


large the hearts of many by it, to run with great: 


cheerfulness, joy, and thanksgiving in the way of his 
commandments, 


DIRECTION Il. 


Several endowments and qualifications are necessary to enable us for 
the immediate practice of the law. Particularly we must have an 
inclination and propensity of our hearts thereunto; and therefore 
we must be well persuaded of our reconciliation with God, and of 
our future enjoyment of the everlasting heavenly happiness, and of 
sufficient strength both to will and perform all duties acceptably, 
until we come to the enjoyment of that happiness. 


EXPLICATION, 


Tosz means that are next to the attainment of the 
great end aimed at, are first to be discovered, that we 
may learn how to get them by other means expressed 
in the following directions. ‘Therefore I have named 
here several qualifications and endowments that are 
necessary to make up that holy frame and state of 
the soul, whereby it is furnished and enabled to prac- 
tice the law immediately; and that not only in the 
beginning, but in the continuation of that practice. 
And therefore, note diligently that these endowments 
must continue in us during the present life, or else 
our ability for a holy life will be lost ; and they must 
be before practice, not in any distance of time, but 
only as the cause is before the effect. I do not say, 
that I have named particularly all such necessary 


ee 


bo 
Sr 


qualifications ; but this much I dare say, that he that 
gaineth these, may by the same means gain any other 
that should be ranked with them. And this is a 
matter worthy of our serious consideration ; for few 
understand that any special endowments are required 
to furnish us for a holy practice, more than for other 
voluntary actions. The first Adam had excellent en- 
dowments bestowed upon him for a holy practice, 
when he was first created according to the image of 
God; and the second Adam had endowments more 
excellent, to enable him for a harder task of obedience, 
And, seeing obedience is grown more difficult, b 
reason of the opposition and temptations that it 
meeteth with since the fall of Adam, we that are to 
be imitators of Christ, had need have very choice 
endowments, as Christ had; at least as good, or some- 
thing better than Adam had at first, as our work is 
harder than his. “ What king going to make war 
against another king, sitteth not down first, and con- 
sulteth whether he be able, with ten thousand, to 
meet him that cometh against him with twenty thou- 
sand?” And shall we dare to rush into battle against 
all the powers of darkness, all worldly terrors and 
allurements, and our own inbred domineering corrup- 
_ tions, without considering whether we have sufficient 
spiritual furniture to stand in the evil day? Yet many 
content themselves with such an ability to will and 
do their duty, as they would have to be given to 
- men ees fie whereby they are no better enabled 
for the spiritual battle than the generality of the 
— world, that lie vanquished under the wicked one ; 
_ and therefore their standing is not at all secured by 
it. It is a hard matter to find what this universal 
ability is, that so many contend so carnestly for,—of 
at it consisteth,—by what means it is conveyed to 
id maintained. 
ily agility hath spirits, nerves, ligaments, bones 
t by, but this spiritual universal ability 
0 be some occult quality, that no sufficient 


oe Br B Seek) Wy 


26 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Diveet. TT, 


account can be given how it is conyeyed, or of what 
it is constituted. That none may deceive themselves, 
and misearry in their enterprises for holiness, by de- 
pending on such a weak occult quality, I have here 
shewed Four Enpowments, of which a true ability for 
the practice of holiness must necessarily be constituted, 
and by which it must subsist and be maintained; in- 
tending to shew afterwards, by what means they are 
given unto us, and whether the inclination or propen- 
sity here mentioned be perfect or imperfect. And 
they are of such a mysterious nature, that some who 
own the necessity of endowments to frame them for 
holiness, are prone to think, that less than these will 
serve, and that some of these frame us rather for 
licentiousness than holiness, as they are here placed 
before any actual performance of the moral law; and 
that some things contrary to them would put us into 
a better frame for holiness. Against all such surmises 
I shall endeavour such a demonstration of these en- 
dowments particularly, as may gain the ascent of 
yight reason; insisting on them in the same order 
wherein I have placed them in the direction. 
In the rinst place, I assert, than an inclination and 
propensity of heart to the duties of the law, is necessary 
to frame and enable us for the immediate practice of 
them. And I mean not such a blind propensity as in- 
animate creatures and brutes have to their natural 
operations, but such an one as is meet for intelligent 
creatures, whereby they are, by the conduct of rea- 
son, prone and bent to approve and choose their duty, 
and averse to the practice of sin: and therefore I - 
have intimated, that the three other endowments 
mentioned in the direction are subservient to this, as 
the chief of all: which are sufficient to make it a ra- 
tional propensity. This is contrary to those that, 
out of zeal for obedience, but not according to know- 
ledge, contend so earnestly for free-will, as a necessary 
and sufficient endowment to enable us to perform our 
duty, when once we are convinced of it, and of our ‘ 


_ obligation to it; and that extol this endowment as 
g the greatest benefit that universal redemption ‘hath 
blessed all mankind with: though they consider this 
_ free-will without any actual inclination to good, yea, 

they cannot but acknowledge, that in most of man- 
kind that have it, it isincumbered with an actual bent 
and propensity of the heart altogether to evil. Such 

a free-will as this is, can never free us from slavery to 

sin and Satan, and fit us for the practice of the law ; 
and therefore is not worthy-the-pains-ef those that 
_ contend so warmly for it. Neither is the will so free 
as is necessary for the practice of holiness, until it be 
endowed with an inclination and propensity there- 
unto, as may appear by the following arguments— 
First, The duties of the law are of such anature that 
they cannot possibly be performed while there is wholly 
 amaversion or mere indifferency of the heart to the per- 
_ formance of them, and no good inclination and propen- 
_ sity towards the practice of them ; because the chief of 
all the commandnients is, to love the Lord with our 
_ whole heart, might, and soul, to love everything that 
is in him, to love his will, and all his ways, and to 
like them as good. And all duties must be influenced 
in their performance, by this love: we must delight to 
do the will of God, it must be sweeter to us than the 
honey or honey-comb,.* © And this love, liking, de- 
_ light, longing, thirsting, sweet-relishing, must be con- 
tinued to the end ; and the first indeliberate motion 
of lust must be regulated by love to God and our 
neighbour ; and sin must be Cia against, and ab- 
horred.t If it were true obedience, (as some would 
ave it) to love our duty only as a market-man loveth 
_ foul ways to the market, or as a sick man loveth an 
_ unpleasant medicinal potion, or as a captiveslave loveth 
s hard work, for fear of a greater evil; then it might 
2 performed with averseness or want of inclination : 


xy 
a 


D 


; 
: 


_ Job xxiii, 12. Psa, Ixiii. 1,—exix. 20, and xix 10. 
} Gal. v.17, t Psa. xxxvi. 4. , 
t \\ 


Re 


28. THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, I. 


but we must love it as the market-man gain, as the 
sick man health, as pleasant meat and drink, as the 
captive liberty. Doubtless, there can be no power in 
the will for this kind of service, without an agreeable- 
ness of our inclination to the will of God, a heart ac- 
cording to his own heart, an aversion of our hearts 
from sin, and a kind of antipathy against sin; for we 
know the proverb, “like loveth like,” There must 
be an agreeableness in the person or thing beloved to 
the disposition of the lover. Love to God must flow 
from a clean heart,* a heart cleansed from evil pro- 
pensities and inclinations. And reason will tell us 
that the first motions of lust which fall not under our 
choice and deliberation, cannot be avoided without a 
fixed propensity of the heart to holiness. 

Secondly, The image of God (wherein God, accord- 
ing to his infinite wisdom, judged it mect to frame the 
first Adam in righteousness and true holiness, and up- 
rightnesst ) consisted in an actual bent and propensity 
of heart to the practice of holiness: not in a. mere 
_ power of will to choose good or eyil, for this in itself 
is neither holy nor unholy, but only a ground-work, 
on which either the image of God or of Satan may be 
drawn; nor in an indifference of propensity to the 
choice of sin or duty, for this is a wicked disposition 
in an intelligent creature that knoweth his duty, and 
fitteth us only to halt between God and Baal. God 
set Adam’s soul at first wholly in a right bent and in- 
clination, though Adam might act contrary to it, if he 
would, as we may be prevailed upon to do some things 
contrary to our natural or rational inclinations: and 
it is easy to fail of our duty, though great prepara- 
tions and furniture be required for the performance 
of it. The second Adam also, the Lord Jesus Christ, 
was born a holy thing,} with a holy disposition of his 
soul, and propensity to goodness. And can we’ rea- 
sonably hope to rise to the life of holiness, from which 


t Luke i. 35, 


My ee 


*)Tim.i.5. + Gen. i. 27, Eph. iv. 24. Eccl. vii. 29, — 


the first Adam fell, or to be imitators of Christ, since 
duty is made so difficult by the fall, if we be not re- 
 newed in a measure according to the same image of 
God, and enabled with such a propensity and inclin- 
ation? 

Thirdly, Original corruption (whereby we are dead 
to God and godliness from the birth, and made wil- 
ling slaves to the performances of all actual sins until 
the Son of God make us free) consisteth in a propen- 

_ sity and inclination of the heart to sin, and averseness 
_ to holiness, Without this propensity to sin, what 
can that law of sin in our members be, that warreth 
against the law of our mind, and leadeth us captive 
_ to the service of sin?* What is that poison in us, for 
{ which men may be called serpents, vipers? what is 
_ that spirit of whoredoms in men, by reason of which 
; they will not frame their doings to turn to God?t 
how is the tree first corrupt, and then its fruit cor- 
_ rupt?{ how can man be said to be abominable and 
filthy, that drinketh iniquity like water?§ how should 
; the mind of the flesh be continual enmity to the law 
of God?|| I know there is also a blindness of under 
_ standing, and other things, belonging to original cor- 
_ ruption, which conduce to this evil propensity of the 
_ will: but yet this propensity itself is the great evil, 
~ the bviralling sin which produceth all actual sins ; 
and must of necessity be removed or restrained, by 
_ restoring that contrary inclination wherein the image 
a of God consisted; or else we shall be backward and 
_ reprobate to every good work, and whatever freedom 
a re will hath, it kal be employed only in the service ~ 
We Of sins! 
Fourthly, God restoreth his people to holiness, by 
iving to them “a new heart, and a new spirit, and 
ig away the heart of stone out of the flesh, and 
ing them a heart of flesh,{! and he cireumciseth 


x 


1 + Hos. vi 4. t Matt. xii. 33. $ Job. xv. 16. | 
mYaids Ps. 4] Ezek, xxxiv. 26, 27. 


30 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY 


their heart to love him with their whole heart and 
soul.”’ * And he requireth that we should be trans- 
formed in the renewing of our mind, that we ma 

prove what is his acceptable will.* And David meager 
for the same end, “that God would create in hima 
clean heart, and renew a right spirit within him.” + 
If any one can judge that this new, clean, cireumcised 
heart, this heart of flesh, this new right spirit, is such 
a one as hath no actual inclination and propensity to 
good, but only a power to choose good or evil, unde- 
servedly called free will, with a present inclination to 
evil, or an indifference of propensity to both con- 


traries, it will not be worth my labour to convince — 


such a judgment: only let him consider whether 
David could account such a heart to be clean and right, 
when he prayed, “Incline mine heart unto thy tes- 
timonies, and not to covetousness.” 

The sEconD ENDOWMENT necessary to enable us for 
the immediate practice of holiness, and concurring 
with the other two. that follow, to work in us a ra- 
tional propensity to this practice, is, that we be well 
persuaded of our reconciliation with God. We must 
reckon that the breach of amity which sin hath made 
between God and us, is made up. by a firm reconcilia- 
tion to his love and favour. And herein I include 
the great benefit of justification, as the means whereby 
we are reconciled to God, which is described in serip- 
ture either by forgiving our sins, or by the imputation 
of righteousness to us,§ because both are contained in 
one and the same justifying act; as one act of illumi- 
nation comprehends expulsion of darkness and intro. 
duction of light, one act of repentance containeth 
mortification of sin, and vivification to righteousness ; 
and every motion from any thing to its, cone is 
but one and the same, though it may be expressed by 
divers names, with respect to either of the two con- 


* Rom. xii, 2, + Psa. li. 10, 
§ Rom, iy. 5, 6, 7. — 


31 


brary terms, the one of which is abolished and the other 
introduced by it. This is a great mystery, (centrary 
to the apprehensions, not only of the vulgar, but of 
some learned divines) that we must be reconciled to 
God, and justified by the remission of our sins and im- 
putation of righteousness, before any sincere ebedience 
. to the law, that we may be enabled for the practice 
of it. They account that this doctrine tendeth to the 
_ subversion of a holy practice, and is a great pillar of 
Antinomianism ; and that the only way to establish 
sincere obedience, is to make it rather a condition to 
be performed before our actual justification and re- 
conciliation with God. Therefore, some late divines 
haye thought fit to bring the doctrine of former Pro- 
testants concerning justification to their anvil, and to 
hammer it into another form, that it might be more 
free from Antinomianism, and effectual to secure a 
holy practice. But their labour is vain and pernicious, 
tending to Antinomian profaneness, or painted hypo- 
crisy at best; neither can the true practice of holiness 
be secure, except the persuasion of our justification 
and reconciliation with God be first obtained without 
works of the law, that we may be enabled thereby to 
_- do them, as I shall now prove by several arguments ; 
intending also to shew, in the following directions, 
_ that such a persuasion of the love of God_as God 
_ giveth to his people, tendeth only to holiness, though 
_ a mispersuasion of it be, in many, an occasion of licen- 
_ tiousness, ( 
First, When the first Adam was framed for the 
_ practice of holiness, at his creation he was highly in 
_ the favour of God, and had no sin imputed to him, 
and was accounted righteous in the sight of God, ac- 
cording to his present state, because he was made up- 
xight according to God’s image. And there is no 
son to doubt, but that these qualifications were his 
e for a holy practice, and the wisdom of God 
good for that end ; and as soon as he 


e 


ee ad ae 


= 


\\ 


me dead in sin, The second Adam 


en Oe 


32 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. 


also, in our nature; was the beloved of the Father, 
accounted righteous in the sight of God, without the 
imputation of any sin to him, except what his office 
was to bear on the behalf of others. And can we 
reasonably expect to be imitators of Christ, by per- 
forming more difficult obedience than the first Adam’s 
was before the fall, except the like advantages be 
given to us by reconciliation and remission of sins, 
and imputation of a righteousness given by God to us 
when we have none of our own? 

Secondly, Those that know their natural deadness 
under the power of sin and Satan, are fully convinced 
that if God leave them to their own hearts, they can 
do nothing but sin; and that they can do no good 
work, except it please God, of his great love and 
mercy, to work it in them.* Theretore, that they 
may be encouraged and rationally inclined to holiness, 
they must hope that God will work savingly in them. 
Now, I leave it to considerate men to judge, whether 
such a hope can be well-grounded, without a good 
persuasion of such a reconciliation and saving love of 
God to us, as depend not upon any precedent good- 
ness of our works, but is a cause sufficient to produce 
them effectually in us? Yea, we know further, (if 
we know wctualres sufficiently) that our death in sin 
proceeded from the guilt of the first sin of Adam, and 
the sentence denounced against it,+ and that it is still 
maintained in us by the guilt of sin, and the curse of 
the law; and that spiritual life will never be given 
us to free us from that dominion, except this guilt 
and curse be removed from us, which is done by actual 
justification.{ And this is sufficient to make us de- 
spair of living to God in holiness, while we apprehend 
ourselves to be under the curse and wrath of God, by 
en of other transgressions and sins still lying upon 
us.§ ies 


ke 


* John viii. 36. Phil. ji. 13. Rom. vill, 7) 8. 
t Gal, ili. 13,14, Rom. vi. 8 — § Baek, 


Direct. II. OF SANCTIFICATION. 38 


yuireth an apprehension of our reconciliation with 


the doing of them. The great duty is love to God 
with our whole heart, and not such a contemplative 
love as philosophers may have to the object of sciences, 
which they are concerned in no farther than to please 
_ our fancies in the knowledge of them ; but a practical 
love, whereby we are willing that God should be ab- 
solute Lord and Governor of us and all the world, to 
dispose of us and all others according to his will, and 
that he should be the only portion and happiness of 
all those that are happy; a love, whereby we like 
eyery thing in him, as he is our Lord; his justice as 
well as any other attribute, without wishing or de- 
siting that he were better than he is; and whereb 
_ we desire that his will may be done upon us, and all 
_ others, whether for prosperity or adversity, life or 
_ death; and whereby we can heartily praise him for 
ail things, and delight in our obedience to him, in 
doing his will, though we suffer that which is never 
_ 80 grievous to us, even present death. Consider these 
_ things well, and you may easily perceive that our 
_ spirits are not in a fit frame for the doing of them, 
- while we apprehend ourselves under the curse and 
wrath of God, or while we are under prevailing sus- 
oe that God will prove an enemy to us at last. 
vish fear may extort some slavish hypocritical 
~ performances from us, such as that of Pharoah in let- 
_ ting the Israelites go, sore against his will: but the 
duty of love cannot be extorted and forced by fear, 
but it must be won and sweetly allured by an appre- 
hension of God’s love and goodness towards us: as 
that eminent loving and beloved disciple testifieth :* 
«There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out 
ecause fear hath torment; he that feareth is not 
perfect in love. We love him, because he first 


- * 1 John iy, 18, 19. 


dly, The nature of the duties of the law is such, . 


God, and his hearty love and favour towards us for — 


B4 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY ~ 


loved us.’* Observe here, that we cannot b 
hand with God in loving’ him, before we appre ; 
his love to us. And consult your own experience, i 
you have any true love to God, whether it were not 
wrought in you by asense of God’s love first towards 
you? All the goodness and excellency of God cannot 
render him an amiable object to us, except we appre- 
hend him an agreeable good to us. I question not 
but the devils know the excellency of God’s nature, 
as well as our greatest metaphysical speculators ; and 
this doth but.fill them the more with tormenting hor- 
ror and trembling, that is contrary to love.* The 
greater God’s excellency and perfection is, the greater 
evil he is to us, if he hate and curse us. And, there- 
fore, the principle of self-preservation deeply rooted 
in our natures, hindereth us from loving that which 
we apprehend as our own destruction. If a man be 
an enemy to us, we can love him for the sake of our 
loving reconciled God, because his love will make 
man’s hatred to work for our good: but, if God him- 
self be our enemy, for whose sake can we love him? 
who is there that can free us from the evil of his en- 
mity, and turn it to ouradyantage, until he is pleased 
to reconcile himself to us? 
Fourthly, Our conscience must of necessity be first 
purged from dead works, that we may serve the liv- 
ing God. And this is done by actual remission of 
sin, procured by the blood of Christ, and manifested 
to our consciencies; as appeareth by Christ’s dying 
for this end.t That conscience whereby we judge 
ourselves to be under the guilt of sin and the wrath 
of God, is accounted an evil conscience in et 
though it perform its office truly, because it is cause 
by the evil of sin, and will itself be a cause of our 
committing more sin, until it can judge us ol jus- 
tified from all sin, and received into the favour of 


God. Love, which is the end of the law, must. pro- r 


* James ii. 19. + Heb. ix.14, 15,and x. 1, 2,4, 14 


me T. 


ceed from a good conscience, as well as from any other 
- cleanness of heart. David’s mouth could not be opened 
to shew forth the praise of God, until he was delivered 
from: blood guiltiness.* This evil guilty conscience, 
whereby we judge that God is our enemy, and that 
his justice is against us to our everlasting comdemna- 
tion, by reason of our sins, doth strongly maintain 
and inerease the dominion of sin and Satan in us, and 
worketh most mischievous effects in the soul against 
godliness, even to bring the soul to hate God, and to 
_ wish there were no God, no heaven, no hell, so we 
might escape the punishment due to us. It so disaf- 
_ fecteth people towards God, that they cannot endure 
to think, or speak, or hear of him, and his law; but 
strive rather to put him out of their minds by fleshly 
_ pleasures and worldly employments. And thus they 
_are alienated from all true religion: only blinding it 
and og tot the mouth of it, it produceth zeal in 
many outside religious performances, and also false 
religion, idolatry, and the most inhuman superstitions 
in the world. I have often considered by what man- 
ner of working any sin could eftectually destroy the 
whole image of God in the first Adam ; and I conclude 
it was by working first an evil guilty conscience in 
him, whereby he judged that the just God was against 
him, and cursed him for that one sin. And this was 
enough to work a shameful nakedness by disorderly 
lusts, a turning his love wholly from God to the crea- 
ture, and a desire to be hidden from the presence of 
_God,f which was a total destruction of the image-of 
God’s holiness. And we have cause to judge, thad 
_ from the same cause proceedeth the continual malice, 
_rancour, rage, and blasphemy of the devil, and many 
notorious wicked men, against God and godliness, 
may think Job uncharitable, in suspecting not 

at his sons had sinned, but that they had heen 
wicked as to curse God in their hearts. + 


36 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY ‘Direct. ee 
But Job well understood that, if the guilt of an ordi- 
nary sin lie upon the conscience, it will make the soul 
to wish secretly that God were not, or that he was 
not so just a judge; which is a secret cursing of God, 
that cannot be avoided until our consciences be purged 
from the guilt of sin, by the offering of Christ for us ; 
which was then figured out by the burnt offerings of 
Job for his sons. : 
Fifthly, God hath abundantly discovered to us, in 
his Word, that his method in bringing men from sin 
to holiness of life, is, first to make them know that 
he loveth them, and that their sins are blotted out. 
When he gave the Ten Commandments on Mount 
Sinai, he first discovered himself to be their God, that 
had given them a sure pledge of their salvation b 
their delivery from Egypt, in the preface.* And, 
during all the time of the Old Testament, God was 
pleased to make the entrance into religion to be by 
circumcision :, which was not only a sign, but also a 
seal of the righteousness of faith, whereby God justi- 
fieth people, while they are considered as ungodly.t 
And this seal was administered to children of eight 
days old, before they could perform any condition of 
sincere obedience for their justification, that their 
furniture for a holy practice might be ready before- 
hand. Furthermore, in the time of the old Testament, 
God appointed divers washings, and the blood of bulls 
and goats, and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the 
unclean, to prepare and sanctify them for other parts 
of his worship in his tabernacle and temple; to figure 
out his purging their consciences from dead works by 
the blood of Christ, that they might serve the living 
God.t This, I say, was then figurative sanctification, 
as the word sanctification is taken ima large sense, 
comprehending all things that prepare us for the — 
service of God, chiefly the remission of sin,$ though 


* Exod, xx. 2. + Rom. iy. 5, 11. t He 
, § Heb, x, 10, 14, 18. — 


vi i 
_ Direet, IT. OF SANCTIFICATION. 37 


if it be taken in a strict sense, respecting only our con- 
formity to the law, it-must necessarily be paced after 
justification, according to the usual method of Pro- 
testant divines. God also minded them of the neces- 
sity of purging away their guilt first, that their ser- 
vice might be acceptable, by commanding them to 
offer the sin-offering before the burnt-offering,* and, 
lest. the guilt of their sins should pollute the service of 

- God, notwithstanding all their particular expiations, 
God was pleased to appoint a general atonement 
for all their sins one day in every year, wherein the 
scape-goat was to bear upon him all their iniquities 
unto a land not inhabited.t Under the New Testa- 
ment, God useth the same method, in loving us first, 
and washing us from our sins by the blood of Christ, 
_ that he may make us priests, to offer the sacrifice of 
ag and all good works to God, even the Father. 
e enterceth us into his service by washing away our 
sins in baptism: he feedeth and strengtheneth us for 
his service, by remission of sins, given to us in the 
blood of Christ at the Lord’s supper: he exorteth us 
to obey him, because he hath already loved us, and 
our sins are already pardoned. ‘Forgive one another, 
even as God for Christ’s sake hath forgiven you. Be 

_ ye therefore followers of God, as dear children; and 
walk in love, as Christ hath loved us.{ I write unto 
you, little children, because your sins are forgiven 
you for his name’s sake. Love not the world, neither 
the things that are in the world.”§ I might quote 
abundance of texts of the same nature. We may 
clearly see by all this, that God hath accounted it a 
matter of great importance, and hath condescended to 
take wonderful care in providing plentiful means, 
both under the Old and New Testament, that his 
eople might be first cleansed from guilt, and recon- 
d to himself, to fit them for the acceptable practice 


—" 


and xvi. 3, 1). t Ley. xvi. 22, 34, 
§ John 1i..12, 13, 


38 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. I. 


of holiness. Away then with all the contrary me- 
thods of the new divinity. 

The THIRD ENDOWMENT necessary to enable us for 
the practice of holiness, without which a persuasion 
of our reconciliation with God would be of little effi- 
cacy to work in us a rational propensity to it, is, 
that we be persuaded of our future enjoyment of 
the everlasting heavenly happiness. This must pre- 
cede our holy practice, as a cause disposing and 
alluring us to it. This assertion hath several sorts of 
adversaries to oppose it. Some account that a persua- 
sion of our own future happiness, before we have per- 
severed insincere obedience, tendeth to licentiousness; 
and that the way to do good works, is rather to make 
them a condition necessary for the procuring of this 
persuasion. Others condemn all works that we are 
allured or stirred up to by the future enjoyment 
of the heavenly happiness, as legal, mercenary, flow- 
ing from self-love, and not from any pure love to 
God; and they figure out sincere godliness by a 
man bearing fire in one hand, to burn up heaven, and 
water in the other, to quench hell; intimating that 
the true service of God must not proceed at all from 
hope of reward, or fear of punishment, but only from 
love. - To establish the truth asserted against the 
errors that are so contrary to it, and to each other, I 
shall propose the following considerations. 

First, 'The nature of the duties of the law is such 
that they cannot be sincerely and universally prac- 
tised without thisendowment. That this endowment 
must be present in us, is sufficiently proved already, 
by all that I have said concerning the necessity of 
the persuasion of our firm reconciliation with Ged by 
our justification, to prepare us for this practice, 
because that includeth a persuasion of this future 
happiness, or else it is of little worth. All that I have 
to add here, is, that sincere obedience cannot ra-— 
tionally subsist, except it be allured, encouraged, 
and supported by this persuasion. Let me therefore 


a 


Direct. II. OF SANCTIFICATION. 39 


suppose a Sadducee believing no happiness after this 
life, and put the question, can such a one love God 
with his whole heart, might, and soul? Will he not 
think it reasonable, rather to lessen and moderate his 
love towards God, lest he should be over-much trou- 
bled to part with him by death? We account it most 
reasonable to sit loose in our affections frora things 
that we must part with. Can such a one be satisfied 
with the enjoyment of God as his happiness? Will 
he not rather account that the enjoyment of God, and 
all religious duties are vanities, as well as other 
things; because in a little time we shall have no more 
benefit by them, than if they had never been? How 
can such a one be willing to lay down his life for the 
sake of God, when by his death he must part with 
God, as well as with other things? How can he 
willingly choose afflictions rather than sin, when he 
shall be more miserable in this life for it, and not at 
all happy hereafter? I grant that if affliction come 
unavoidably upon such a person, he may reasonably 
judge that patience is better for him than impatience ; 
but it will displease him, that he is forced to the use 
of such a virtue; and he will be prone to fret and 
murmur at his Creator, and to wish he had never 
been, rather than to endure such miseries, and to be 
comforted only with vain transitory enjoyments. I 
_ think I have said enough to shew how unfurnished 
such a man is for holiness. And he that will burn up 
_heayen, and quench hell, that he may serve God out 

_ of love, doth thereby leave himself little better fur- 


_ nished than the Sadducee. The one denieth them,. 


the other will not have them at all to be considered 
in this case. 

__ Secondly, The sure hope of the glory of heaven is 
made use of ordinarily by God, since the fall of Adam, 
is an encouragement to the practice of holiness; as 
he Scripture doth abundantly shew. Christ, the 
reat pattern of holiness, for the joy that was set 


40 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. aE: 


before him, endured the cross, despising the shame.* 
And though I cannot say, that the first Adam had 
such a sure hope to preserve him in innocency; yet 
he had instead of it the present possession of an earthly 
paradise, and a happy estate init; which he knew 
would last, if he continued in holiness, or be changed 
into a better happiness. The apostles did not faint 
under affliction, because they knew thatit wrought 
for them a far more exceeding and eternal Wi ig of 
glory.t 'The believing Hebrews “took joyfully the 
spoiling of their goods, knowing in themselves that 
they had in heaven a better and an enduring sub- 
stance.” The pee Paul accounts all his suf- 
ferings unprofitable, were it not for a glorious resur- 
rection; and that Christians would be of all men 
most miserable ; and that the doctrine of the Epicures 
were rather to be chosen. Let us eat and drink, for 
to-morrow we shall die. And he exorts the Corin- 
thians to be abundant in the work of the Lord, 
knowing that their labour shall not be in vain in the 
Lord.§ As worldly hope keepeth the world at work 
in their various employments; so God giveth his 
pele the hope of his glory, to keep them close to 

is service.|| And it is such a sure hope as shall 
never make them ashamed. Those that think it 
below the excellency of their love, to work from a 
hope of the heavenly reward, do thereby advance 
their love beyond the love of the apostles and primi- 
tive saints, and even of Christ himself. 

Thirdly, This persuasion of our future enjoyment 
of everlasting happiness, cannot tend to licentiousness, 
if we understand well that perfect holiness is a neces- 
sary part of that happiness, and that though we have 
a title to that happiness by free justification and 
adoption, yet we must go to the possession of it ina way 
of holiness.[ Neither is it legal or mercenary, to be 
moved by this persuasion ; seeing the persuasion itself 
* Heb. xii.2. +2 Cor. iv. 16,17. } Heb. x.34. §1 Cor. xv. 58. 
|| Heb. vi. 11,12.° (J 1 John iii, 3, Rom. v. 5. {1 John iii. 1, 2 


direct, II. OF SANCTIFICATION. 41 


is not gotten by the works of the law, but by free-grace 
_ through faith.* And if it be a working from self- 
_ love: yet for certain it is not that carnal self-love 
which the Scripture condemneth as the mother of sin- 
_ fulness,+ but a holy self-love, inclining us to prefer 
God aboye the flesh and the world, such as God 
directeth us unto, when he exorteth us to save our- 
selves.{ And it is so far from being contrary to the 
pure love of God, that it brings us to love God more 
purely and entirely. The more good and beneficial 
we apprehend God to us to all eternity, doubtless the 
) ‘more lovely God will be to us, and our affections will 
be the more inflamed towards him. God will not be 
loved as a barren wilderness, a land of darkness 
to us, neither will he be served for nought.§ He 
_ would think it a dishonour to him to be owned by us 
as our God, if he had not prepared for us a city.|] 
And he draweth us to love him by the cords of a man, 
. such cords as the love of men useth to be drawn by, 
_ eyen by his own love to us, in laying his benefits 
_ before us.f{ Therefore the way for us to keep our- 
_ selyes in the love of God, is to look for his merey 
unto eternal life.[ ' 
The Last ENDOWMENT, for the same end as the for- 
_ mer, is, that we be well persuaded of sufficient strength 
both to will and perform our duty acceptably, until 
- we come to the enjoyment of the heavenly happiness, 
- This is contrary to the error of those that account it 
sufficient, if we have strength to practise holiness, if 
we will, or to will it if we please; and this is the suffi- 
cient strength which they earnestly contend for, as a 
great bene bestowed on all mankind by universal 
redemption. It is also contrary to the error of those 
that think the practice of godliness and wickedness to 
e alike easy, excepting only some difficulty in the 
ust alterations of vicious customs, and in hearing 


Vapi +2 Tim. i.2, Acts i. 40. 1 Tim. iv. 16. 
Isa. xiv.19, || Heb. xi.16. Hos. xi.4, [ Jude 2, 
* 2 


42 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. 11. 


persecutions, which they account to be a rare case; 
since the kingdoms of the world have been brought 
to the profession of Christianity; or who think that 
God requireth of men only to do their endeavour, 
that is, what they can do; and it is nonsense to say 
they cannot do what they cando. According to their 
judgement, it is needless to concern ourselves much 
about sufficient strength for holy practice. For the 
- confirmation of the assertion, against those errors, 
take these arguments, 

First, We are, by nature, dead in tresspasses and 
sins, unable to will or do any thing that is spiritually 
good, notwithstanding the redemption that is by 
Christ, until we be actually quickened by Christ.* 
Those that are sufficiently enlightened and humbled, 
know themselves to be naturally in this case; and 
that they do not only want executive power to do 
good, but chiefly a heart to will it, and to be pleased 
with it; and that if God work not in them both to 
will and to do, they shall neither will nor do any 
thing pleasing to him,f and that if he leaye them to 
their own corruption, after he hath begun the good 
work, they shall certaintly prove vile apostates; and 
their latter end will be worse than their beginning, 
We may conclude from hence, that whosoever can 
courageously attempt the practice of the law, without 
being well persuaded of a sufficient power, whereby 
he may be enabled to be heartily willing, as well as 
to perform when he is willing, until he hath gone 
through the whole work of obedience acceptably ; 
such an one was never yet truly humbled, and 
brought to know the plague of his own heart; neither 
doth he truly believe the doctrine of original sin, 
whatever formal profession he makes of it. 

Secondly, Those that think sincere conformity to 
the law in ordinary cases to be so very easy, shew 
that they neither know it, nor themselves. Is it an —~ 


* Eph, ii,1, Rom. viii, 7, 8, 9. { Phil, ii. 13. 


Direct. I. OF SANCTIFICATION. 43 


easy thing to wrestle, not against flesh only, but 
against principalities, powers, spiritual wickedness in 
high places?* Is it an easy thing not to lust or covet, 
according to the tenth commandment? The apostle 
Paul found it so difficult to obey this commandment, 
that his concupiscence prevailed the more by occasion 
of the commandment.t Our work is not only to 
alter vicious customs, but to mortify corrupt natural 
affections which bred those customs; and not only to 
deny the fulfilling of sinful-lust, but to be full of 
holy love and desires: yet even the restraining the 
_ execution of corrupt lusts, and crossing them by con- 
trary actings, is in many cases, like the cutting off a 
right hand, and plucking out a right eye.{ If obe- 
dience be so easy, how came it to pass that the 
heathens generally did those things for ul ac their own 
consciences condemned them as worthy of death ?§ and 
that many among us seek to enter into this strait gate, 
_ and are not able;|| and break so many vows and pur- 
poses of obedience, and fall back to the practice of 
_ their lusts, though, in the mean time, the fears of 
_ eternal damnation press hard upon their consciences? 
As for those that find persecution for religion to be 

so rare a thing in late days, they have cause to be 
suspected, that they are of the world, and therefore 

_ the world loveth his own; else they would find, that 
~ national profession of religion will not secure those 
that are truly godly from several sort of persecutions. 
_ And suppose men do not persecute us for religion, yet 
_ there is great difficulty in bearing great injuries from 
men on other accounts, and losses, poverty, bodily 
_ pains, long diseases, and untimely deaths, from the 
ordinary providence of God, with such hearty love to 
God, and to injurious men for his sake, and such a 
patient, acquiesence in his will as the law of God 
_requireth. I acknowledge, that the work of God is 


—— 


Ruwhois + Rom. vii. 7, 8. } Matt. v. 29, 30. 
om, i, 32, || Luke xiii. 24, f 


\\ 


s 


ied 


44 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, I. 


easy and pleasant so those whom God rightly fur- — 


nisheth with endowments for it; but those who assert 
it to be easy to men in their common condition, shew 
their imprudence in contradicting the general expe- 
rience of heathens and Christians. Though many 


duties do not require much labour of body or mind, ~ 


and might be done with ease if we were willing; yet 
it is easicr to remove a mountain, than to move and 
incline the heart to will and affect the doing of them. 
Ineed not concern myself with those that account that 
all have sufficient strength for a holy practice, because 
they can do their endeavour, that is what they can 
do: for God requireth actual fulfilling his commands, 
What if by our endeavours we can do nothing, in any 
measure according to the rule, shall the law be put 
off with no performance? and shall such endeavours 
be accounted sufficient holiness? And what if we 
cannot so much as endeavour in a right way? If 
man’s ability were the measure of acceptable duty, 
the commands of the law would signify very little. 
Thirdly, The wisdom of God hath ever furnished 
people with a good persuasion of a sufficient strength, 
that they might be enabled both to will and do their 
duty. The first Adam was furnished with such a 
strength ; and we have no cause to think that he was 
ignorant of it, or that he needed to fear that he should 
be left to his own corruptions; because he had no 
corruptions in him, until he had produced them in 
himself by sinning against strength: and when he 


had lost that strength, he could not recover the prac- . 


tice of holiness, until he was acquainted with a better 
strength, whereby the head of Satan should be 
bruised.* Our Lord Christ, doubtless knew the in- 
finite power of his Deity to enable him for all that 
he was to do and suffer in our nature. He knew the 


Lord God would help him, therefore he should not, 


be confounded.+ The Scripture sheweth what plen- 


* Gen. fii. 15, ft Tsa,i,20,5 


= 


‘Direct. IL. 


tiful assurance of strencth God gave to Moses, Joshua, 
- Gideon, when he called them to great employments; 
and to the Israelites when he called them to subdue 
the land of Canaan. Christ would have the sons of 
Zebedee to consider whether they were able to drink 
of his cup and to be baptized with the baptism that 
_ he was baptized with.* Paul encourageth believers 
_ to the life of holiness, by persuading them, that sin 
shall not prevail to get the dominion over them, be- 
_ cause they are not under the law, but under grace.t 
_ And he exorteth to be strong in the Lord, and in the 
_ power of his might, that they might be able to stand 
against the wiles of the devil.{ John exorteth be- 
: lievers, not to love the world, nor the things of the 
_ world, because they were strong, and had overcome 
the wicked one.§ They that were called of God 
Be tafore to work miracles, were first acquainted 
with the gift of power to work them; and no wise 
man will attempt to do them without knowledge of 
_ the gift: even so when men that are dead in sin are 
called to do the works of a holy life, which are in 
_ them great miracles, God maketh a discovery of the 
‘ gift of power unto them, that he may encourage them 
in a rational way to such a wonderful enterprize. 


OF SANCTIFICATION, 45 


DIRECTION III. 


‘The way to get holy endowments and qualifications necessary to frame 
and enable us for the immediate practice of the law, is to receive 
them out of the fulness of Christ, by fellowship with him; and that 
we may have this fellowship, we must be in Christ, andhave Christ 
himself in us, by a mystical wnion with him. 


EXPLICATION. 
_ Here, as much as anywhere, we have great cause 
to acknowledge with the apostle, that, without con- 


* 
‘XX, 22, + Rom. vi. 13, 14. } Eph. vi. 10, 11. 
§ 1 Jobn ii, 14, 15. 


\ ie, 
. ve 
; \ w. J 
ee ete 


4G THE GOSPEL MYSTERY © Direct, TIT. 


troversy, great is the mystery of godliness, even so 
great that it could not have entered into the heart of 
man to conceive it, if God had not made it known in 
the gospel by supernatural revelation, Yea, though 
it be revealed clearly in the holy Scriptures, yet the 
natural man hath not eyes to see it there, for it is 
foolishness to him; and, if God express it never so 
plainly and properly, he will think that God is speak- 
ing riddles and parables. And I doubt not but it is 
still a riddle and a parable even to many truly godly, 
that have received a holy nature in this way: for the 
7 Bache themselves had the saving benefit of it, before 
the Comforter discovered it clearly to them.* And 
they walked in Christ as the way to the Father, be- 


Bs 8 alte 


fore they clearly knew him to be the way.t And | 


the best of us know it put in part, and must wait for 
the perfect knowledge of it in another world, 
One great mystery is, that the holy frame and. dis- 
ream whereby our souls are furnished and enabled 
‘or immediate practice of the law, must be obtained 
by receiving it out of Christ’s fulness, as a thing al- 
ready prepared and brought to an existence for us in 
Christ, and treasured up in him ; and that as we are 
justified by a righteousness wrought out in Christ, 
and imputed to us; so we are sanctified by such a 
holy frame and qualifications, as are first wrought 
out and completed in Christ for us, and then imparted 
tous. And as our natural corruption was produced 
originally in the first Adam, and propagated from 
him to us; so our new nature and holiness is first 
produced in Christ, and derived from him to us, or as 


it were propagated. So that we are not at all to work ~ 


together with Christ, in making or producing that 


holy frame in us, but only to take it to ourselves, — 


and use it in our holy practice as made ready to our 


hands. Thus we have fellowship with Christ in re- — 


ceiving that holy frame of spirit that was originally 


* John xiy. 20. + John xiv. 5. 


Direct. IT. oF SANCTIFICATION. 47 


- 


in him; for fellowship is, when several persons have 
the same things in common.* This mystery is so 
great, that notwithstanding all the light of tlie gospel, 
we commonly think that we must get a holy frame 
by producing it anew in ourselves, and by framing 
and working it out of our own hearts. Therefore, 
many that are seriously devout, take a great deal 
of pains to mortify their corrupted nature, and beget 
a holy frame of heart in themselves, by striving ear- 
nestly to master their sinful lusts, and by pressing 
vehemently upon their hearts many motives to godli- 
ness, labouring importunately to squeeze good quali- 
fications out of them, as oil out of a flint. They 
account, that though they be justified by a righteous- 
hess wrought out by Christ, yet they must be sancti- 
fied by a holiness wrought out by themselves.. And 
though out of humility they are willing to call it in- 
fused grace, yet they think they must get the infusion 
of it by the same manner of working, as if it were 
wholly acquired by their endeavours. On this account 
they acknowledge the entrance into a godly life to be 
harsh and unpleasing, because it cost so much strug- 
-gling with their own heartsand affections to new-frame 
them. If they knew that this way of entrance is not 
only harsh and unpleasant, but altogether impossible, 
and that the true way of mortifying sin, and quicken- 
ing themselves to holiness, is by receiving a new 
nature out of the fulness of Christ; and that we do 
no more to the production of a new nature than of 
original sin, though we do more to the reception of 
it: if they knew this, they might save themselves 
Inany a bitter agony, and a great deal of mispent bur- 
densome labour, and employ their endeavours to enter 
at the strait gate in such a way as would be more 
asant and successful. | 
Another great mystery in the way of sanctification, 


iy John i. 1—3. 


\\ 


79 


gD aR 2 = 
0, Ere -9. 


pg? 


48 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. III. 


is the glorious manner of our fellowship with Christ, 
in receiving a holy frame of heart from him. It is 
by our being in Christ, and having Christ himself in 
us; and that not merely by his universal presence, as 
he is God, but by such a close union, as that, we are 
one spirit and one flesh with him; which is a privi- 
lege peculiar to those that are truly sanctified. I 
may well call this a mystical union, because the 
apostle calleth it a “great mystery,” in an epistle full 
of mysterics,* intimating, that it is eminently great, 
above many other mysteries. It is one of the three 
mystical unions that are the chief mysteries in relig- 
ion. The other two are, the union of the Trinity of 
persons in one Godhead, and the union of the divine 
and human natures in one person, Jesus Christ, God 
and Man. Though we cannot frame an exact idea of 
the manner of any of these three unions in our ima- 
ginations, because the depths of these mysteries is be- 
yond our comprehension: yet we have cause to believe 
them all, because they are clearly revealed in Serip- 
ture, and are a necessary foundation for other points 
of Christian doctrine. Particularly, this union be- 
tween Christ and believers, is plain in several places 
of Scripture, affirming that Christ is, and dwelleth in 
believers, and they in him,t and that they are so 
joined together as to become one spirit,+ and that be- 
lievers are members of Christ’s body, of his flesh, and 
of his bones; and they two, Christ and the church, 
are one flesh.§ Furthermore, this union is illustrated 
in Scripture by various resemblances, which would 
be very much unlike the things which they are made 
use of to resemble, and would rather seem to beguile 
us by obscuring the truth, than instruct us by illus- 
trating of it if there were no true proper union between 
Christ and believers. It is resembled by the union 


* Eph. y. 22. } John vi. 56. and xiv. 20. F1Cor.vil7. | 
§ Eph. y. 30, 31. th 


| Direct, III. OF SANCTIFICATION, > 49 


between God the Father and Christ,* between the 
vine and its branches,t between the head and body,t 
between the bread and the eater.§ It is not only 
resembled, but sealed in the Lord’s Supper; where 
neither the Popish transubstantiation, nor the Lu- 
therans consubstantiation, nor the Protestapt’s spiri- 
tual presence of Christ’s body and blood to the true 
receivers, can stand without it. And if we can imagine 
that Christ’s body and blood are not truly eaten and 
drank by believers, either spiritually er corporally, 
we shall make the bread and wine joined with the 
words of institution, not only naked signs, but such 
signs as are niuch more apt to breed false notions in 
us, than to establish us in the truth. And there is 
nothing in this union so impossible or repugnant to 
reason, as may force us to depart from the plain and 
familiar sense of those Scriptures that express and 
illustrate it. Though Christ be in heaven, and we on 

_ earth, yet we can join our souls and bodies to his at 
such a distance, without any substantial change of 
either, by the same infinite spirit dwelling in him and 
us; and so our flesh will become his when it is quick- 
ened by his spirit, and his flesh ours, as truly as if we 
did eat his flesh and drink his blood; and he will be 
in us himself by his spirit, who is one with him, and 
who can unite more closely to Christ than any ma- 

- terial substance can do, or who can make a more close 
and intimate union between Christ and us. And it 
will not follow from hence that a believer is one per- 
son with Christ, any more than that Christ is one 
erson with the Father by that great mystical union, 
Neither will a believer be hereby made God, but only 
the temple of God, as Christ’s body and soul is, and 
_ the spirit’s lively instrument, rather than the princi- 
_ pal cause. Neither will a believer be necessarily per- 


_ * # John xiv. 20. and xvii. 21—23. + John xv. 4, 5. 
t Eph. i. 22, 23. ~ § John vi. 51—54. 


- 


% 


E 


ios Fy aes i 


50 ; THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Divect. 111. 


fect in holiness hereby ; or-Christ made a sinner, for 
Christ knoweth how to dwell in believers by certain 
measures and degrees, and to make them holy so far 
only as he dwelleth in them. And though this union 
seem too high a preferment for such unworthy crea- 
tures as we are; yet considering the preciousness of 
the blood of God, whereby we are redeemed, we 
should dishonour God, if we should not expect a. 
miraculous advancement to the highest dignity that 
creatures are capable of through the merits of that 
blood. Neither is there any thing in this union con- 
trary to the judgment of sense, because the bond of 
the union, being spiritual, falleth not at all under 
the judgment of sense. 

Several learned men of late acknowledge no other 
union between Christ and believers, than such as per- 
sons or things wholly separated, may have by their 
mutual relations to each other; and accordingly they 
interpret the places of Scripture that speak of this 
union. When Christ is called the head of the church, 
they account that a political head or governor is the 
thing meant, When Christ is said to be in his people 
and they in him, they think that the proper meaning 
is that Christ’s law, doctrine, grace, salvation, or that 
godliness is in them, and embraced by them: so 
that Christ here must not be taken for Christ him- 
self, but for some other thing wrought in them by 
Christ. When Christ and believers are said to be 
one spirit and one flesh, they understand it of the 
agreement of their minds and affections, as if the 
greatness of the mystery of this union mentioned* | 
consisted in a harsh trope, or a dark improper ex- 
pression, than in the depth and abstruseness of the 
thing itself; and as if Christ and his apostles had 
affected obscure intricate expressions, when they 
speak to the church of things very plain and easy to 


* Eph, vy. 32. 


‘Direct. FTT, OF SANCTIFICATION. 51 


be understood. Thus that great mystery, the union 
of believers with Christ himself, which is the glory of 
the church, and hath been highly owned formerly, 
both by the ancient fathers, and many eminent pro- 
testant divines, particularly writers concerning the 
doctrine of the Lord’s Supper, and by a very general 
consent of the church in many ages, is now exploded 
out of the new model of divinity. The reason of ex- 
raga it, as I judge in charity, is not because our 
ate learned refiners of divinity think themselves less 
able to defend it, than the other two mysterious 
unions, and to silence the objections of those proud 
sophisters that will not believe what they cannot com- 
prehend; but rather, because they account it to be 
one of the sinews of Antinomianism that lay unob- 
served in the former usual doctrine; that it tendeth 
to puff up men with a persuasion that they are justi- 
: fied, and have eternal life in them already, and that 
_ they need not depend any longer upon their uncertain 
_ performances of the condition of sincere obedience for 
salyation; whereby they account the very foundation 
of a holy practice to be subverted. But the wisdom 
of God bau laid another manner of foundation for a 
holy practice than they imagine, of which this union _ 
- (which the builders refuse) is a principal stone next 
to the head of the corner. And in opposition to their 
- corrupt glosses upon the Scriptures that prove it, I 
assert, that our union with Christ is the cause of our 
nae pelrn to Christ as a political head-in all things, 
and of the abiding of his law, doctrine, grace, salva~ 
_ tion, and all edliches in us, and of our agreement 
with him in our minds and affections; and therefore 
_ it cannot be altogether the same thing with them, - 
_ And this assertion is useful for a better understanding 
f the excellency of this union. It is not a privilege 
procured by our sincere obedience and holiness, as 
some may imagine, or a reward of good works re- 
rved for us in another world; but it is a privilege 
towed on believers in their very first entrance into 


G.M. ELLIOTT LIBRARY: 


52 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, III. 


a holy state, on which all ability to do good works 
doth depend, and all sincere obedience to the law doth 
follow after it, as fruit produced by it. 

Having thus far explained the direction, I shall 
now shew that though the truth contained in it be 
above the reach of natural reason, yet it is evidently 
discovered to those that have their understandings 
opened, to discern that supernatural revelation of the 
mysterious way of sanctification which God hath 
given to us in the holy Scriptures. 

First, There are several places in nai se that do 
plainly express it. Some texts shew, that all things 
pertaining to our salvation are treasured up for us in 
Christ, and comprehended in his fulness ; so that we 
must have them thence or not at all.* “ It pleased 
the Father that in him should all fulness dwell.” 
And in the same epistle,t the apostle sheweth, that 
the holy nature ely we live to God, was first 
produced in us by his death and resurrection: ‘ In 
whom also ye are circumcised, in putting off the body 
of the sins of the flesh; buried with him, quickened | 
together with him, when you were dead in your sins. { 
V’ho hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in 
heavenly places in Christ.” A holy frame of spirit, 
with all its necessary qualifications, must needs be 
comprehended here in all spiritual blessings: and these 
are given us in Christ’s person in heavenly places, as 
prepared and treasured up in him for us, while we are 
upon earth: and therefore we must have our holy 
endowments out of him, or not at all. In this text 
some choose rather to read heavenly things, as in the 
margin, because neither places nor things are expressed 
in the original; but the former textual reading is to 
be preferred before the marginal, as being the proper 
sense of the original Greek phrase, which is, and must 
necessarily be so rendered in two other places of this 
same epistle.§ Another text is,|| which sheweth that 


* Col. i. 19. + Col. di. 11, 12, 13. ~t Eph. i. 3. 
§ Chap. iil, 10. and vi, 12. | 1 Cor. i. 30. 


* 


pr aes © 
ect. LIT. OF SANCTIFICATION. 53 


_ Christ is of God, made unto us sanctification, by which 
_ We are able to walk holily: as well as wisdom, by the 
knowledge of which we are savingly wise; and righ- 

teousness, by the imputation of which we are justified ; 


and redemption, whereby we are redeemed from all 


misery, to the enjoyment of his glory, as our happi- 
hess in the heayenly kingdom. Other texts of scrip- 
_ ture shew plainly, that we receive our holiness out of 
~ his fulness by fellowship with him.* “ Of his ful- 
ness have we all received, and grace for grace.”” And 
_ it is understood of grace answerable to the law given 
_ by Moses, which must needs include the grace of 
sanctification.t “Truly our fellowship is with the 
Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ. God is light. 
If we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have 
- fellowship one with another.’ Hence we may infer, 
_ that our fellowship with God and Christ doth include 
particularly our having light, and walking in it holil 
and righteously. There are other texts that teac 
_ the proof of the whole direction fully, shewing not 
_ only that our holy endowments are made ready first 
_ in Christ for us, and received from Christ, but that 
_ we receive them by union with Christ.{ “Ye have 
_ put on the new man, which is renewed after the 
_ Image of him that created him; where Christ is all, 
_ and in all.§ He that is joined to the Lord is one 
irit.|| I live ; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. 
This is the record that God hath given to us—eternal 
life; and this life isin hisSon. He that hath the Son 
_ hath life, and he that hath not the Son, hath not life.” 
_ Can we desire that God should more clearly teach us, 
that all the fulness of the new man is in Christ; and 
all that spiritual nature and life whereby we live to 
God in holiness ; and that they are fixed in him so 
inseparable, that we cannot have them, except we be 


*Jobni16,17.  ¢ 1Jobni.3,5,6,7.  ¢ Col ili. 10, 11. 
§1Cor.vi17, | Galii.20, $1 Johny. 11. 
ets E2 


\ 


joined to him, and have himself abiding in us? . Take | 


ee ail 


‘ F ae ta i kes em. 7 a 
= NS 
b4 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. I1f. 


heed, lest through prejudice and hardness of heart, 
you be guilty of making God a liar, in not believing 
this eminent record that God hath given to us of his 
Son. 
Secondly, God is pleased to illustrate this mysteri- 
ous manner of our sanctification, by such variety of 
similitudes and resemblances, as may put us out of 
doubt that it is truth, and such a truth as we are highly 
concerned to know and believe. I shall endeavour to 
contract the chief of these resemblances, and the force 
of them briefly into one sentence; leaving it to those 
that are spiritual, to enlarge their meditations upon 
them. We receive from Christ a new holy frame 
and nature, whereby we are enabled for a holy prac- 
tice, by union and fellowship with him ; in like man- 
ner,—1, As Christ lived in our nature by the Father.* 
—2, As we receive original sin and death propagated 
to us from the first Adam.t—3, As the natural body 
receiveth sense, motion, and nourishment from the 
head.{—4, As the branch receiveth its sap, juice, and 
fructifying virtue from the vine.§—5, As the wife 
bringeth forth fruit’ by virtue of her conjugal union 
with her husband.||—6, As stones become a holy 
temple by being built upon the foundation, and joined 
with the chief corner-stone.—7, As we receive the 
nourishing of bread by eating it, and-of wine by 
drinking it, ] which last resemblance is used to seal to 
us our communion with Christ in the Lord’s Supper. 
Here are seven resemblances instanced, whereof some 
do illustrate the mystery spoken of more fully than 
others; all of them do some way intimate, that our 
new life and holy nature is first in Christ, and then 
in us by a true proper union and fellowship with 
-him. If any should urge that the similitudes of Adam 
and his seed and of married couples, do make rather 


* John vi. 57. ft Rom. xv. 12, 14, 16, 17. t Col. ii. 19. 
§ John y. 51, 55, 57. || Rom. vii. 4. q 1 Pet. ii. 4, 5, 6. 
} John vi, 51, 55, 57. 


} 


Direct. III. 


OF SANCTIFICATION, 55 


for a relative than a real union betwixt Christ and 


us; let them consider that all nations are really made 


- of one blood, which was first in Adam ;* and that the 


_first woman was made out of the body of Adam, and 
was really bone of his bone, and flesh of his flesh. 
And by this first married couple, the mystical union 
of Christ and his church is eminently resembled.t 
And yet it supposeth both these resemblances in the 
nearness and fulness of them; because those that are 
joined to the Lord, are not only one flesh, but one 
spirit with him. 

Thirdly, The end of Christ’s incarnation, death and 
resurrection, was to prepare and form a holy nature 
and frame for us in hinvelf, to be communicated to 
us by union and fellowship with him; and not to 
enable us to produce in ourselves the first original of 
such a holy nature by our own endeayours. 

1, By his incarnation, there was a man created in 
a new holy frame, after the holiness of the first Adam’s 
frame had been marred and abolished by the first 
transgression: and this new frame was more excel- 
lent than ever the first Adam was; because man was 
really joined to God by a close inseparable union of 
the divine and human nature in one person, Christ ; 
so that these natures had communion each with other 
in their actings, and Christ was able to act in his hu- 
man nature, by power proper to the divine nature, 
wherein he was one God with the Father, These 
words that he spake while he was upon earth he spoke 
not of himself, by any mere human power, but the 
Father that dwelt in him, he did the works.} Why 

~ was it that Christ set up the fallen nature of man in 
such a wonderful frame of holiness, in bringing it to 
live and act by communion with God, living and act- 


_ ing init? One great end was, that he might com- 


| municate this excellent frame to his seed, that should 


* Acts. xvii. 26, + Gen. ii. 22, 33, 24. with Eph. v. 30, 31, 32. 
“+ ft John xiv. 10. 


56 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. II, 


be born of him, and in him, by his spirit as the last 
Adam, the quickening spirit; that, as we have borne 
the image of the earthly man, so we might also bear 
the image of the heayenly,* in holiness here and in 
glory hereafter. Thus he was born Immanuel, God 
with us, because the fulness of the Godhead, with all 
holiness, did first dwell in him bodily, even in his 
human nature, that. we might be filled up with that 
fulness in him.+ Thus he came down from heayen 
as living bread, that as he liveth by the Father, so 
those that eat him may live by him,} by the same 
life of God in them that was first in him. 

2, By his death he freed himself from the guilt of 
our sins imputed to him, and from all that mnocent 
weakness of his human nature, which he had borne 
for a time for our sakes. And by freeing himself, he 
prepared a freedom for us from our own natural con- 
dition ; which is both weak as his was, and also pol- 
luted with our guilt and sinful corruption. Thus the 
corrupt natural estate, which is called in Scripture 
the old man, was crucified together with Christ, that the 
body of sin might be destroyed. And it is destroyed 
in us, not by any wounds that we ourselves can give 
to it, but by our partaking of that freedom from it, _ 
and death unto it, that is already wrought out for us 
by the death of Christ ; as is signified by our baptism, 
wherein we are buried with Christ by the application 
of his death to us,§ God “ sending his own co in the 
likeness of sinful flesh, for sin (or, by a sacrifice for 
sin, as in the margin) condemned sin in the flesh ; 
that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in 
us, that walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit.” || 
Observe here, that though Christ died, that we might 
be justified by the righteousness of God and of faith, 
not by our righteousness which is of the law,4] yet 


* 1 Cor. xv. 45, 49. Tt Matt. i. 23. Col. ii. 9, 10. 
t John vi. 53,51.  § Rom. vi. 2. 8, 4, 10, 11. || Rom, viii. 3,4. 
q Rom, x. 4, 5,6, Phil, iii, 9V 


Direct. III. OF SANCTIFICATION, 57 


he died also, that the righteousness of the law might 
be fulfilled in us, and that by walking after his spirit, 
as those that are in Christ.* He is resembled in his 
‘death to a corn of wheat dying in the earth, that it 
may propagate its own nature, by bringing forth much 
fruit ;+ to the passover that was slain, that a feast 
_ might be kept upon it ; and to bread broken, that it 
may be nourishment to those that eat it ; { to the rock 
smitten that water may gush out of it) for us to 
drink.§ He died, that he might make of Jew and 
Gentile, one new man in himself, || and that he might 
see his seed. é. e. such as derive their holy nature from 
him. Let these Scriptures be well observed, and 
they will sufficiently evidence that Christ died, not 
that we might be able to form a holy nature in our- 
selves, but that we might receive one ready prepared 
and formed in Christ for us, by union and fellowship 
with him. 
_ 3, By his resurrection he took possession of spiritual 
life for us, as now fully procured for us, and made to 
be our right and property by the merit of his death : 
and therefore we are said to be quickened together 
with Christ, even when we were dead in sins, and to 
be raised up together, yea, and to be made to sit to- 
_ gether in heavenly places, in Christ Jesus, as our head, 
while we continue upon earth in our own persons.** 
His resurrection was our resurrection to the life of 
holiness, as Adam’s fall was our fall in spiritual death. 
And we are. not ourselves the first makers and formers 
of our new holy nature, any more than of our original 
corruption ; but bothare formed ready for us to partake 
— ofthem. And, by union with Christ we partake of that 
spiritual life that he took possession of for us at his 
resurrection, and thereby we are enabled to bring forth 
_ the fruits of it; asthe Scripture sheweth by the simili- 


ie tude of a marriage union.tt “We are married to 


a 
Hs 


* Rom. ibid. + John xii. 24, t1 Cor. v. 7, 8. & xi. 24. 
$1 Cor. x. 4. || Eph. ii. 15. q Isa. liii. 10, 
§ ** Eph. ji, 5, 6. tt Rom. vii. 4. 


4) 


Baits bi 
AO Ds) An Ot ee ae 


= i” Gee eed 


"ah eT Tee Pry ee, 
| Po 


58 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. TIT. 


him that is raised from the dead, that we might bring 
forth fruit unto God.” Baptism signifieth the appli- 
cation of Christ’s resurrection to us, as well as his 
death; we are raised up with him in it, to newness of 
life, as well as buried with him, and we are taught 
thereby, that, because, “he died unto sin once, and 
liveth unto God, we should likewise reckon. ourselves 
to bedead indeed unto sin, and alive unto God, through 
Jesus Christ our Lord.” * 

Fourthly, Our Sanctification is by the Holy Ghost, 
by whom we live and walk holily.t Now the Holy 
Ghost first rested on Christ in all fulness, that he 
might be communicated from him to us; as was sig- 
nified to John the Baptist, by the similitude of the 
descending of a dove from the opened heayens, resting 
on Christ at his baptism. And when he sanctifieth 
us, he baptizeth us into Christ, and joineth us to 
Christ by himself, as the great bond of union.§ So 
that, according to the Scriptural phrase, it is all one 
to have Christ himself, and to have the spirit of 
Christ in us.|| “ He glorifieth Christ; for he receiveth 
those things that are Christ’s, and sheweth them to 
us. He giveth us an experimental knowledge of 
those spiritual blessings which he himself prepared 
for us by the incarnation, death, and resurrection of 
Christ. 

Fifthly, The effectual causes of these four principal 
endowments, which in the foregoing direction, were 
asserted as necessary to furnish us for the immediate 

«practice of holiness, are comprehended in the fulness 
of Christ, and treasured up for us in him; and the en- 
dowments themselves, together with their causes, are 
attained richly by union and fellowship with Christ, 
If we be joined to Christ, our hearts will be no longer 
left under the power of sinful inclinations, or in a 
mere indifferency of inclination to good or evil; but 


* Rom. vi. 4, 5, 10, 11. + Rom. xv. 16. t John i. 32, 33. 
§1 Cor. xii. 13, {| Rom. vifi. 9, J0. - John xvi. 14, 15. 


Direct. ILI. OF SANGTIFICATION. 
_ they will be powerfully endowed with a power, bent, 
‘and propensity te the practice of holiness, by the 
spirit of Christ dwelling in us, and inclining us to 
| tind spiritual things, and to lust against the flesh.* 
And we have in Christ a full reconciliation with God, 
and an advancement into higher favour with him, 
than the first Adam had in the state of innocency : 
because the righteousness that Christ wrought out 
for us by his obedience unto death, is imputed to us 
_ for our justification: which- is called_the righteous- 
ness of God, because it was wrought by one that is 
- God as well as man; and therefore it is of infinite 
value, to satisfy the justice of God for all our sins, 
and to procure his pardon and highest favour for us.t 

_ And that we may be persuaded of this reconciliation, 
we receive the spirit of adoption, through Christ, 
whereby we cry, Abba, Father.[ Hereby also we 
are persuaded of our future enjoyment of everlasting 
happiness, and of sufficient strength both to will and to 
perform our duty acceptably, until we come to that 
enjoyment. For the spirit of adoption teacheth us to 
conelude, that if we be the children of God, then we 
are heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ ; and that 

_ the law of the spirit of life that is in Christ Jesus, 
/ maketh us free from the law of sin and death; and 
_ that nothing shall be against us, nothing shall separate 
us from the love of God in Christ, but, in all opposi- 
- tion and difficulties that we meet with, we shall be, 
at last, more than conquerors through him that loved 
_us.§ Furthermore, this comfortable persuasion of 
our justification and future happiness, and all saving 
privileges, cannot tend to licentiousness, as it is given 
only in this way of union with Christ; because it is 
oined inseparably with the gift of sanctification, by 
the spirit of Christ, so that we cannot have justifica- 
tion, or any saving privilege in Christ except we 


<I 


er 


Scie ete «ROB 


Pee 


Rom. viii. ¥,4,5. Gal. y. 17. $2 Cor. v.21, Rom. v. 19. 
 $ Rom. vili.15. _ § Rom. vili, 17, 23, 35, 37, 39. 


60 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. III. © 


receive Christ himself, and his holiness, as well as 
any other benefit; as the Scripture testifieth, that 
“there is no condemnation to them which are in 
Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after 
the spirit.* 

Siathly, Whereas it may be doubted, whether the 
saints that lived before the coming of Christ in the 
flesh could possibly be one flesh with him, and receive 
anew nature by union and fellowship with him, as 
prepared for them in his fulness; we are to know, that 
the same Christ that took our flesh, was. before 
Abraham,f and was fore-ordained before the founda- 
tion of the world, to be sacrificed as a lamb without 
blemish, that he might redeem us from all iniguit 
by his precious blood, and he had the same spirit 
then, which filled his human nature with all its ful- 
ness afterwards, and raised it from the dead; and he 
gave that spirit then to the church.§ Now, this 
eee was able and effectual to unite those saints to 
that flesh which Christ was to take to himself, in the 
fullness of time, because he was the same in both, 
and to give out to them that grace with which Christ 
would afterwards fill his flesh, for their salvation, as 
well as ours. Therefore David accounted Christ’s 
flesh to be his, and spake of Christ’s death and resur- 
rection as his own before-hand, as full as any of us 
can do since his accomplishment, || “‘ My flesh also shall 
rest in hope: for thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; 
neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see cor- 
ruption. Thou wilt shew me the path of life.” 
Yea, the saints before David’s time, did all eat of the 
same spiritual meat, and drink of the same spiritual 
drink, even of the same Christ, as we do, and therefore 
were partakers of the same privilege of union and fel- 
lowship with Christ.q And, when Christ was mani- 
fested in the flesh, in the fulness of time, all things in 


*“ Rom. viii. 1. + John viii. 58. $1 Pet. i. 18—20, 
§ 1 Pet. i. 11, and iii. 18, 19. || Psa. xvi. 9, 1). { 1 Cor, x. 3,4. — 


III. OF SANCTIFICATION. 61 


heaven and on earth, all the saints departed, whose 
pirits were then made perfect in heaven, as well as 
_ the saints that then were, or should afterwards be on 
earth, were gathered together in one, and compre- 

hended in Christ as their head.* And he was the chief 
corner-stone, in whom the building of the whole 
_ church upon the foundation of the prophets before, 
_ and the apostles, after his coming, being fitly framed 
together, groweth into a holy temple in the Lord.t 
_ “Jesus Christ is the same, yesterday, and to-day, and 
for ever.” { His incarnation, death, and resurrection, 
were the cause of all the holiness that ever was, or 
shall be given to man, from the fall of Adam to the 
end of ie world; and that by the mighy power of 
his spirit, whereby all saints that ever were, or shall 
be, are joined together, to be members of that one 


: mystical body, whereof he is the head. 


4 


_ 


DIRECTION VI. 

_ The means or instruments whereby the spirit of God accomplisheth 
: our union with Christ, and our fellowship with him in all holiness, 
; are,t hegospel, whereby Christ entereth into our hearts to work faith 
in us; and faith, whereby we actually receive Christ himself, with 

all his fulness into our hearts. And this faith is a grace of the 
Spirit, whereby we heartily believe the gospel, and also believe on 
Christ as he is revealed, and freely promised to us therein, for all 
his salvation. 


EXPLICATION. 


_ Tuar which I asserted, in the foregoing direction, 
- concerning the necessity of our being in Christ, and 
haying Christ in us by a mystical union, to enable 
us for a holy practice, might put us to a stand in our 
endeavours for holiness; because we cannot imagine 
how we should be able to raise ourselves above our 
ural sphere to this glorious union and fellowship, 


+ Eph. ii. 20,21. t Heb. xiii. 8. 
4 1) 


“e 
NS 
62 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, IV. 


é 


until God be pleased to make known to us, by super- 
natural revelation, the means whereby his spirit 
maketh us partakers of so high a privilege. But God 
is pleased to help us at a stand to go on forward, by 
revealing two means or instruments, whereby hi: 
spirit accomplisheth the mystical union and fellow- 
ship between Christ and us, and whereby rationa 
creatures are capable of attaining thereunto, by hi: 
spirit working in them. 

One of these means is the gospel of the grace o 
God, wherein God doth make known unto us thi 
unsearchable riches of Christ, and Christ in us, the 
hope of glory ;* and doth also invite us and commanc 
us to believe on Christ for his salvation, and that doth 
encourage us by a free promise of that salvation t 
all that shall believe on him.t This is God’s owr 
instrument of conveyance, wherein he sendeth. Chris’ 
to us to bless us with his salvation.t It is the mini 
stration of the spirit and of righteousness.§ Faith 
cometh by \the hearing of it; and therefore it is 
great instrument whereby we are begotten in Christ, 
and Christ is formed in us.||_ There is no need for u 
to say in our hearts, “ who shall ascend into heaven 
to bring Christ down from above? or who shall descenc 
into the deep, to bring up Christ from the dead?’ 
that we may be united, and have fellowship with him 
in his death and resurrection: for the word is nigh t« 
us, the gospel, the word of faith, in which Chris 
himself graciously condescendeth to be nigh to us; 
that we may come at him there, without going an} 
further, if we desire to be joined to him. 

The other of the means is faith, that is wrought in u 
by the gospel. This is our instrument of reception 
whereby the union between Christ and us is accom 
plished, on our part, by our actual receiving Chris 


* Eph. iii. 8. Col. 1. 27. { Acts xiii, 38, 39. Rom. ix. 9, 11. 
t Acts iii. 26.  §2 Cor, iii. 6, 8,9. || Rom. x. 16, 17. 1 Cor. iy. 14 
Gal. iv. 19. { Rom. x, 6,8. 


Direct. IV. OF SANCTIFICATION. ’ 63 


himself, with all his fullness, into our hearts; which 
is the principal subject of the present explanation. 
The faith which philosophers eee treat of, 
is only a habit of the understanding, whereby we 
assent to a testimony upon the authority of the testi- 
fier. Accordingly, some would have faith in Christ 
to be no more than a believing the truth of things in 
religion, upon the authority of Christ testifying them. 
But the apostle sheweth, that the faith whereby we 
are justified, is faith in christ’s blood,* not only in 
his authority as a testifier, And though a mere as- 
sent to a testimony were sufficient faith for knowledge 
of things, which the philosophers aimed at ; yet we 
are to consider, that the design of saving faith is, not 
only to know the truth of Christ and his salvation, 
testified and promised in the gospel, but also to ap-~ 
poet and receive Christ and his salvation, as given 
y and with the promise. Therefore saving faith 
must necessarily contain two acts, believing the truth 
of the gospel, and believing on Christ, as promised 
freely to us in the gospel for all salvation. By the 
one, it receiveth the means wherein Christ is conveyed 
to us; by the other, it receiveth Christ himself and 
his salvation in the means: as it is one act, to receive 
_the breast or cup wherein milk or wine are conveyed ; 
and another act, to suck the milk in the breast, and 
to drink the wine in the cup, And both these acts 
- must be performed heartily, with an unfeigned love 
to the truth, and a desire of Christ and his salvation 
_ aboveallthings. This is our spiritual appetite, which 
is necessary for our eating and drinking Christ, the food 
_of life, as a natural appetite is for bodily nourishment. 
- Our assenting unto or believing the gospel, must not 
be forced by mere conviction of the truth, such as 
icked men and devils may be brought to, when 
ey had rather it were false ; neither must our be- 
lieving on Christ be only constrained for fear of 


* Rom, iii. 24, 25. © 
\a 


Ij 


Nee eS eee ae ee a eR 


oe 7?) BS ee - 
i 4 et aS 


=e 


64 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. IV. 


damnation, without any hearty love and desire to- 
wards the enjoyment of him: but we must receive 
the love of the truth by relishing the goodness and 
excellency of it; and we must “account all things 
loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ — 
Jesus our Lord, and count them but dung, that we 
may win Christ, and be found in him ;”* esteeming 
Christ to be all our salvation and happiness,t in 
whom all fulness doth dwell.t And this love must 
be to every part of Christ’s salvation ; to holiness, as 
well as forgiveness of sins. We must desire earnestly, 
that God would create in us a clean heart and right 
spirit, as well as hide his face from our sins ;§ not - 
like many, that care for nothing in Christ but only 
deliverance from hell. “ Blessed are they that hunger 
and thirst after righteousness ; for they shall be fill- 
ed.” || The former of these acts doth not immediately 
unite us to Christ, because it is terminated only on 
the means of conveyance, the gospel ; yet it is a say- 
ing act, if it he rightly performed, because it inclineth 
and disposeth the soul to the latter act, whereby 
Christ himself is immediately received into the heart. 
He that believeth the gospel with hearty love and 
liking, as the most excellent truth, will certainly with 
the like heartiness believe on Christ for his salvation. 
“They that know the name of the Lord, will cer- 
tainly put their trust in him ;”4] Therefore, in Scrip- 
ture, saving faith is sometimes described by the former — 
of these acts, as if it were a mere believing the gospel ; 
sometimes by the latter, asa believing on Christ or 
in Christ.[ “ If thou believe in thine heart that God 
raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.” The 
Scripture saith, “that whosoever believeth on him 
shall not be ashamed ; whosoever believeth that Jesus 
- is the Christ, is born of God. ‘These things have 7 — 
written unto you that believe on the name of the Son — 


*2 Thess. ii. 10, Phil. iii, 8, 9. + Col. ili. 11. t Col. i. 19. 
§ Psa. li. 9,10. || Matt. v. 6. 7 Psa. ix. 10, ] Rom, x. 9, 1). 


aa 


- 
Direct. IV. OF SANCTIFICATION. 65 


of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life, 
and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of 
God’* 

For the better understanding of the nature of faith, 
let it be further observed, that the second and princi- 
pal act of it, believing on Christ, including hehovans 
on God the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost ; because 
they are one and the same infinite God, and they all 
concur in our salvation by Christ, asthe only Media- 
tor between God and us, in whom all the promises of 
God are yea and amen.” “ By him (as Mediator) 
we believe on God, that raised him from the dead, 
and gaye him glory, that our faith and hope might be 
inGod.”{ And it is the same thing with trusting on 
God, or on the Lord, which is so highly commended 

in the whole Scripture, especially in the Old Testa- 
ment ; as may easily a re by considering, ‘that it 
hath the same causes, effects, objects, adjuncts, appo- 
sites, and all the same circumstances, excepting only 
-that it had a respect to Christ as promised, before his 
coming, and now it respecteth him as already come 
in the flesh. Believing in the Lord, and trusting on 
his salvation, are equivalent terms, that explain one 
another.§ 1 confess, that trusting on things seen or 
known by the mere light of reason, as on our own 
wisdom, power, riches, on are or any arm of flesh, 
may not so properly be called believing on them ; but 
trusting on a Saviour, as discovered by a testimony, 
is properly believing on him. It is also the same 
thing that is expressed by the terms of resting, rely- 
ing, leaning, staying ourselves on the Lord, called 
hoping in ie Lord ; because it is the ground of that 
expectation which is the proper act of hope, though 
our believing and trusting be for the present, as well 
as future benefit of this salvation. ‘Nhe reason why 
is so commonly expressed, in the Scriptures of the 
Testament, by the term of believing on Christ, 


F2 


.  F2Cor, 1.20, t1Peti.2l, §yPs . Ixxvill, 22. 


am 


66 _ THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. IV. 


might be, probably, because, when that part of Serip- 
ture was written, there was cause, in a special manner, 
to urge believing the testimony that was then newly 
revealed by the te 
Having thus explained the nature of faith, I come 
now to.assert its proper use and office in our salvation. » 
- That it is the means and instrument whereby we re- 
ceive Christ, and all his fulness, actually into our 
hearts. This excellent use and office of faith is en- 
countered by a multitude of errors. Men naturally 
esteem, that it is too small and slight a thing to pro- 
duce so great effects ; as Naaman thought washing in 
Jordan too small a matter for the cure of his leprosy. 
They contemn the true means of entermg in at the 
strait gate, because they seem too easy for such pur- 
ose ; and thereby they make the entrance not only 
ifficult, but impossible to themselves. Some will 
allow, that faith is the sole condition of our justifica- 
tion, and the instrument to receive it, aécording to 
the doctrine maintained formerly by the Protestants 
against the Papists; but they account, that it is not 
sufficient or effectual to sanctification, but that it 
rather tendeth to licentiousness, if it be not jomed to 
some other means, that may be powerful and effectual 
to secure a holy practice. They commend this great 
doctrine of Protestants as a comfortable cordial for 
persons upon their death-beds, or in agonies under 
terrors of conscience: but they account, that it is not 
good for ordinary food, and it is wisdom in ministers — 
to preach it seldom and sparingly, and not without 
some antidote or corrective, to prevent the licentious- 
ness to which it tendeth. Their common antidote or 
corrective is, that sanctification is necessary to salva- 
tion, as well as justification ; and that though we be 
justified by faith, yet we are sanctified by our own 
performance of the law ; and so they set up salvation 
by works, and make the grace of justification to be of 
none effect, and not at all comfortable. If it had 
indeed such a malignant influence upon practice, 


ey 


Direct. IV. OF SANCTIFICATION,- 67 


could not be owned as a doctrine proceeding from the 
most holy God; and all the comfort that it affords, 
mustneeds be ungrounded and deceitful. This con- 
sequence is well understood by some late refiners of 
the Protestant religion; and therefore they have 
thought fit to new-model this doctrine, and to make 
saving faith to be only a condition to procure a right 
and title to our justification by the righteousness of 
Christ, which must be performed before we can lay 
any good claim to the enjoyment of it, and before we 
have any right to use any instrument for the actual 
receiving of it, and this they call an accepting of, or 
receiving Christ. And that they may the better se- 
cure the practice of holiness by their conditional faith, 
they will not have trusting on God or Christ for sal- 
vation, to be accounted the principal saving act of it ; 
because, as it seemeth to them, many loose wicked 
people, trust on God and Christ for their salvation as 
much as others, and are, by their confidence, hardened 
the more in their wickedness ; but they had rather 
_ it should be obedience to all Christ’s laws, at least in 
resolution ; or a consent that Christ should be their 
Lord, accepting of his terms of salvation, and a resig- 
nation of themselves to his government in all things. 


It is a sign that the Scripture-form of teaching is 


grown into disesteem with our great masters of rea- 
son, when trusting in the Lord, so much commended 
in Scripture, is accounted a mean and ordinary thing. 
They endeayour to affright us from owning faith to 
be an instrument of justification, by telling us, that 
thereby we that use the instrument, are made our 
own principal justifiers, to the dishonour of God ; 
hough it might be easily answered, that we are made 
thereby only the principal receivers of our own justi- 
ation from God, the giver of it, to whom all the 
ory doth belong. 
_ All these errors will fall, if it can be proved that 
such a faith as I have described, is an instrument 
we actually receive Christ himself into our 


4 
“4 


68 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. IV. 


hearts, and holiness of heart and life, as well as justi- 
fication, by union and fellowship with him. For the 
proof of it, I shall offer the following arguments. 
First, By faith we have the actual enjoyment and 
possession of Christ himself, and not only of remission 
of sins, but of life, and so of holiness. “ Christ 
dwelleth in our hearts by faith.”*, We live to 
God; and yet not we, but “ Christ liveth in us by 
the faith of the Son of God.t He that believeth on 
the Son of God, hath the Son and everlasting life that 
isin him.t He that heareth Christ’s word, and be- ~ 
lieveth on him that sent Christ, hath everlasting life, 
and is passed from death unto life.”§ These texts 
express clearly such a faith as I have described. 
Therefore the efficiency or operation of faith, in order 
to the enjoyment of Christ and his fulness, cannot be 
the procurement of a bare right or title to this enjoy- 
ment; but rather it must be an entrance into it, and 
taking possession of it. ‘We have our access and 
entrance by faith into that grace of Christ wherein 
we stand. || 
Secondly, The Scripture plainly ascribeth this effect 
to faith, that by it we receive Christ, put him on, 
are rooted and grounded in him: and also that we 
receive the Spirit, remission of sin, and an inheri- 
tance among all them which are sanctified.] And 
the Scripture illustrateth this receiving by the 
similitude of eating and drinking: “He that be- | 
lieveth on Christ, drinking the living water, or 
his Spirit.** Christ is the bread of life; his flesh — 
is meat indeed, and his blood is drink indeed.” 
And the way to eat and drink it, is, to believe in 
Christ ; and, by so doing, we dwell in Christ, and 
Christ-in us, and have everlasting life.t+ How can it~ 


* Eph. iii. 17. t Gal. ii. 19, 20. 41 John v. 12, 13, and iii. 36, | 
§ John vy. 24, || Rom. v. 2. q John i. 12. Gal. iii. 26, 27. 
Col. ii. 6,7. Gal. iii. 14. Acts 26. 18. ** John vii. 37, 38, 39 
tf John vi. 35, 47, 48, 54, 56, Ae pale 3 


- nut 


Direct. ay. OF SANCTIFICATION, 69 


be taught more clearly, that we receive Christ him- 

_self properly into our souls by faith, as we do receive 
food into our bodies by eating and drinking, and that 
Christ is as truly united to us thereby as our food 
when we eat and drink it? So that faith cannot be a 
condition to procure a mere right or title to Christ, 
no more than eating or drinking procureth a mere 
right or title to our food; but it is rather an instru- 
ment to receive it, as the mouth that eateth and 
drinketh the food. 

Thirdly, Christ with all his salvation, is freely given 
by the grace of God to all that believe on him; for 
“we are saved by grace through faith; and that not 
of ourselves; it is the gift of God.* We are justified 
freely by his grace, through faith in his blood.t 
The Holy Ghost, who is the bond of union between 
Christ and us, is a gift.’+ Now that which is a 
gift of grace, must not at all be earned, purchased or 
poe by any work or works performed as a con- 

_dition to get a right or title to it; and therefore faith 
itself must not be accounted such a conditional work. 
“Tf it be by grace, it is no more of works; otherwise, 
grace is no more grace.”§ The condition of a free 
gift is only, take and have. And in this sense, we 
will readily acknowledge faith to be a condition, 
allowing a liberty in terms where we agree in the 
thing: but, if you give a pepper-corn to purchase a 
title to it, then you spoil the freeness of the gift. 
The free offer of Christ to you is sufficient to confer 
upon you a right, yea to make it your duty to receive 
Christ and his salvation as yours. And because we 
receive Christ by faith, as a free gift, therefore we 
may account faith to be the instrument, and, as it 
were, the hand whereby we receive him. 
Fourthly, 1 hath been already proved, that all 
iritual life and holiness is treasured up in the ful- 
of Christ, and communicated to us by union with 


8,9. + Rom, iil, 24,25, + Actsii,38. § Rom. xi. 6. 
4 - a , e \\ 


4 


70 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. IV. 


him. Therefore the accomplishing of union with 
Christ, is the first work of saving grace in our hearts. 
And faith itself being a holy grace, and part of spiri- 
tual life, cannot be in us before the beginning of it; 
but rather it is given to us, and wrought in the very 
working of the union. And the way wherein it con- 
duceth to the union, cannot be by procuring a mere 
title to Christ as a condition, because then it should 
be performed before the uniting work beginneth ; but 
rather by being an instrument, whereby we may 
actively receive and embrace Christ, who is already 
come into the soul, to take possession of it as his own 
habitation. 

Pifthly, True saving faith, suchas I have described, 
hath in its nature, and manner of operation, a pecu- 
liar aptitude or fitness to receive Christ and his salva- 
tion, and to unite our souls unto him ; and to furnish 
the soul with a new holy nature, and to bring forth a 
holy practice by.union and fellowship with him. 
God hath fitted natural instruments for their office, as 
the hands, feet, &c. so that we may know, by their 
nature and natural manner of operation, for what use 


. they are designed. In like manner we may know, 


that faith is an instrument, formed on purpose for our 
union with Christ and sanctification, if we consider 
what a peculiar fitness it hath for the work. The dis- 
covery of this is of great use for the understanding of 
the mysterious manner of our receiving and practising 
all holiness by union and fellowship with Christ, by 
this precious grace of faith. And to make you, as it | 
were, to see with your eyes, that it is such an instru- 


_ment as I have asserted it to be, I shall present it to 


your view in three particulars. : 

First, The grace of faith is as well fitted for the 
soul’s receiving Christ, and union with him, as any 
instrument of the body is for receiving and closing 
with things needful for it. By the very act of hearty 
trusting or believing on Christ for all salvation and 
happiness, the soul casteth and putteth away from it- 


is 


Direct. IV. OF SANCTIFICATION. 71 


self every thing that keepeth it at a distance from 
Christ ; as all confidence in our strength, endeavours, 
works, privileges ; or in any worldly pleasures, pro- 
fits, honours; or in any human helps and succours, 
for our happiness and salvation : because such confi- 
dences are inconsistent with our confidence in Christ 
for all salvation. Paul, by his confidence in Christ, 
was taken off from all confidence in the flesh; he suf- 
fered the loss of glorying in his privileges and legal 
righteousness, and counted all other enjoyments in 
matters of the world, or of religion, to be but dung 
that he might win Christ and be found in him.* The 
voice of faith is, ‘“‘ Ashur shall not save us, we will not 
ride upon horses, neither will we say any more to the 
work of our hands, Ye are our gods: for in thee the 
fatherless findeth mercy.t We have no might against 
this great company of our spiritual enemies ; neither 
know we what to do: but our eyes are upon thee.” } 
I might multiply places of Scripture to shew what a 
self-emptying grace faith is, and how it casteth other 
confidences out of the soul, by getting above them to 
Christ, as the only happiness and salvation. The same 
act of trusting or believing on Christ, or on God, is 
the very manner of our souls coming to Christ ;§ 
drawing near to the Lord ;|| fleeing unto the Lord to 
hide us ;{] making our refuge in the shadow of his 
Wings ;** staying ourselves and our minds upon the 
Lord ;+¢ laying hold on eternal life ;}:+ and lifting up 
our soulstothe ford 3$§ rolling our way,and casting our 
burden upon the Lord, |||| and of our eating and drink- 
ing Christ, as hath already appeared. Let us consider, 
that Christ and his salvation cannot be seen, or hand- 
led, or attained to, by any bodily motion, but are re- 
vealed and promised to us in the Word. Now, let 


> _* Phil. fii. 3, 6—9. + Hos. xiv. 3. 2 Chron. xx. 12. 
§ John vi. 35. || Psalm Ixxii. 28. ¥ Psalm cxiliii. 9. 
_ ** Psalm vii. J. tt Isaiah 1. 10, & xxvi, 3. tt 1 Tim. vi, 12. 
*_—s§§ Psalm xxv, 1. ||| Psalm xxxvii, 5, & ly, 22. 


\) 


cab ical 


72 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. IV. 


any invent, if they can, any way for the soul to exer- 
cise any motion or activeness in the receiving of this 
unseen promised salvation, besides believing the Word, 
and trusting on Christ for the benefit promised. If 
Christ were to be earned by works, or any other kind 
of conditional faith ; yet a faith must be instrumen- 
tal to receive him. Some think love as fit to be the 
uniting grace ; but I have shewed, that love to Christ’s 
salvation is an ingredient into faith. And though love 
be an appetite unto union, yet we have no other like- 
ly way to fill this appetite, while we are in this world, 
besides trust in Christ for all his benefits, as he is pro- 
mised in the gospel. 

Secondly, There is in this saving faith a natural ten- 
dency to furnish the soul with a holy frame and na- 
ture, and all endowments necessary thereunto, out of 
the fulness of Christ. A hearty affectionate trusting 
on Christ for all his salvation, as freely promised to— 
us, hath naturally enough in it to work in our souls a 
rational bent and inclination to, and ability for, the 
practice of all holiness; because it comprehendeth in 
it a trusting that, through Christ, we are dead to sin, 
and alive to God, and that our old man is crucified ;* 
and that we live by the Spirit;+ and that we have 
forgiveness of sins;{ and that God is our God;§ and 
that we have in the Lord righteousness and strength. 
whereby we are able to do all things;|| and that we 
shall be gloriously happy in the enjoyment of Christ 
to all eternity.4— When the saints in Scripture speak 
‘so highly of such glorious spiritual privileges as I 
have here named, they acquaint us*with the familiar 
sense and language of their faith, trusting on God and 
Christ, and they gave us but an explication of the na- 
ture and contents of it? and they speal of nothing 
more than what they receive out of the fulness of 
Christ. And how can we otherwise judge but that 


* Rom. vi, 2, 6. tGal.v,25.  tEph.if7. Col. i, 14. 
§ Psa. xlviii, 14. || Isa, xlv, 24, Phil. iv, 13. J Phil. iif, 20, 21 


those that have a hearty love to Christ, and can, upon 
a good ground, think and speak such high things con- 
cerning themselves, must needs be heartily 5 Fer 


_ and mightily strengthened for the practise of holiness. 
‘Thirdly, use faith has such a natural tendency 
to dispose and strengthen the soul for the practice of 
holiness, we have cause to judge.it a meet instrument 
to accomplish every part of that practice in an accep- 
table manner. Those that with a due affection believe 
_ stedfastly on Christ for the free gift of all his salvation, 
may find, by experience, that they are carried forth 
_by that faith according to the measure of its strength 
_ or weakness, to love God heartily, because God hath 
loved them first;* to praise him, to pray unto him in 
the name of Christ ;+ to be patient with cheerfulness 
under all afflictions, giving thanks to the Father that 
hath called them to his heayenly inheritance ;} to love 
all the children of God out of love to their heavenly 
Father :§ to walk as Christ walked,|| and to give 
_ themselves up to live to Christin all things, as con- 
strained by his love in dying for them.4— We have a 
cloud of witnesses concerning the excellent works 
that were produced by faith.** And though trusting 
on Christ he accounted such a slight and contemptible 
thing, yet I know no work of obedience which it is 
not able to produce. And note the excellent manner 
of working by faith. By it we live and act in all 
good works, as people in Christ, as raised above our- 
selves and our natural state, by partaking of him and 
his salvation; and we do all in his name and on his 
account. ‘This is the practice of that mysterious man- 
ner of living to God in holiness, which is peculiar to 
the Christian religion, wherein we live; and yet not 
we, but Christ that liveth in us.tt “And who can 
imagine any other way but this for such a practice, 


* 
Johniv, 19. + Eph. vy, 20,—John xvi, 26,27.  $ Col. i, 11, 12. 
 -§ John y, 1. || 1 John ii, 6. q 2 Cor. v, 14. 
: 4* Heb, xi, tt Gal. ii, 20. 
Eat ii G \) 


fA 


74 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. IV. 


while Christ and his salvation are known to us only : 


by the gospel? 
The explanation that I have made of the nature 


and office of true faith, and of its aptitude for its office, . 


is sufficient to evidence that it is a most we faith, as 
it is called ;{ and that such a trusting on Christ as I 
have described, in its own nature, cannot have any 
tendency to licentiousness, but only to holiness; and 


that it rooteth and groundeth us in holiness, more ° 


than the mere accepting of any terms of salvation, 
and consenting to have Christ for our Lord, can do ; 
and is more powerful to secure a holy practice than 
any of those resolutions of obedience, or resignating 
acts, that some would have to be the great conditions 
of our salvation; which are indeed no better than hy- 

ocritical acts, if they be not produced by this faith. 

here is indeed a counterfeit dead faith, such as wicked 


men may have; and, if that tend to licentiousness, let _ 


not true faith be blamed, but rather mark the de- 
scription of it which I have given, that you may not 
be deceived with a counterfeit faith instead of it, 

I shall add something concerning the efficient cause 
of this excellent grace, and of our union with Christ 
by it: whereby it may appear that it is not so slight 
and easy a way of salvation as some may imagine. 
The Author and Finisher of our faith, and of our 
union and fellowship with Christ by faith, is no less 
than the infinite Spirit of God, and God and Christ 
himself by the Spirit; for, “by one Spirit we are all 


baptised into one body of Christ, and are all made to © 


drink into one Spirit.t God granteth us, accordin 

to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with al 
might by his Spirit inthe inner man, that Christ may 
dwell in our hearts by faith.”{ If we do but consider 


the great effect of faith, that by it we are raised to 


live above our natural condition, by Christ and his 


Spirit living in us, we cannot rationally conceive that 


* Jude, verse 20. $1 Cor. xii, 12, 13. t Eph. iii, 16, 17. 


ee Tf 
pls ie 
“a 


Direct. IV. OF SANCTIFICATION. 75 


-it should be within the power of nature to do any 
thing that advanceth us so high. If God had done 
no more for us in our sanctification, than to restore us 
_ to our first natural holiness, yet this could not have 
been done without putting forth his own almighty 
power to quicken those that are dead in sin; how 
much more is this almighty power needful to advance 
us to this wonderful new kind of frame, wherein we 
live and act above all the power of nature, by a higher 
principle of life than was given to Adam in innocency, 
even by Christ and his Spirit living and acting in us? 
The natural man bringeth forth his offspring accord- 
ing to his image, by that natural power of multiply- 
ing with which God blessed him at his first creation ; 
but the second Adam bringeth forth his offspring new- 
born according to his image only by the Spirit.* 
“ As many as receive him, even those that believe on 
his name, are born, not of blood, nor of the will of 
the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.” + Christ 
took his own human nature into personal union with 
himself, in the womb of the Virgin Mary, by the Holy 
Ghost coming upon her and the power of the Highest 
overshadowing her, the same power whereby the 
world was created.{ So he taketh us into mystical 
union and fellowship with himself, by no less than an 
infinite creating power; for we are the workmanship 
of God, created in Christ Jesus to good works ;§ and 
if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. || 
For the accomplishing this great work of our new 
creation in Christ, the Spirit of God doth first work 
upon our hearts, by and with the gospel, to produce 
in us the grace of faith. For, if the gospel should 
come to us in word only, and not in power and in the 
‘Holy Ghost, Paul might labour to plant, and Apollos 
to water, without any success, because we cannot re- 
_ ceive the things of the Spirit of God; yea, we shall 


* John iii, 5. ¢ John i, 12, 13. t Luke i, 55. 

§ Eph, ii, 10, - {| 2 Cor. 5,17. 
“hi ay 
yy: 

TS ere 


76 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. IV. 


account thein foolishness, until the Spirit of God 
enables us to discern them.* We shall never come 
to Christ by any teaching of man, except we also 
hear and learn of the Father, and be drawn to Christ 
by his Spirit.t And when saving faith is wrought in 
us, the same spirit giveth us fast hold of Christ by it. 
As he openeth the mouth of faith to receive Christ, so 
he filleth it with Christ ; or else the acting of faith 
would be like a dream of one that thinketh he eateth ° 
and drinketh, and when he awaketh he findeth him- 
self empty. ‘The same Spirit of God doth both give 
that faith whereby miracles were wrought, and did 
work also the miracles by it; so also the same Spirit of 
Christ doth work saving faith in us, and doth answer 
the aim and end of that faith, by giving us union and 
fellowship with Christ by it: so that none of the 
glory of this work belongeth to faith, but only to 
Christ and his spirit. And indeed, faith is of such an 
humble self-denying nature, that it ascribeth nothing 
that it receiveth to itself, but all to the grace of God: 
and therefore God saveth us by faith, that all the 
glory may be ascribed to his free grace. If Adam had 
strength enough in innocency to perform the duty of 
faith as well as we, yet it will not follow that he had 
strength enough to raise himself above his natural state 
into union with Christ: because faith doth not unite 
us to Christ by its own virtue, but by the power of the 
Spirit working by it and with it. Thus are we first 
passive, and then active, in this great work of mystical 
union; we are first apprehended of Christ, and then 
we apprehend Christ. Christ entereth first into the 
soul, to join himself to it, by giving it the spirit of 
faith ; and so the soul receiveth Christ and his Spirit 
by their own power ; as the sun first enlighteneth our 
eyes, and then we can see it by its own light. We 
may note further, to the glory of the grace of God, 


s 


*1 Thess. 1,5. 1 Cor. iii, 6, and fi, 14. } John vi, 44, 45. 


—————————— 


~ 


Direct. V. OF SANCTIFICATION, ris 


that this union is fully accomplished by Christ’s giy- 
ing the spirit of faith to us, even before we act that 
faith in the reception of him ; because, by this grace 
or spirit of faith, the soul is inclined and disposed to 
an active receiving of Christ. And, no doubt, Christ 
is thus united to many infants, who have the spirit of 
faith, and yet cannot act faith, because they are not 
come to the use of their understandings ; but those of 
riper years that are joined passively to Christ by the 
spirit of faith, will also join themselves with, him ac- 
tively, by the act of faith ; and, until they act this 
faith, they cannot know or enjoy their union with 
Christ, andj the comfort of it, or make use of it,jin 
“gee any other duties of holiness acceptably in this 
e; 


DIRECTION V. 


We cannot attain to the practice of true holiness by any of our endea- 
yours, while we continue in our natural state, and are not par- 
takers of a new state but by union and fellowship with Christ 
through faith. 


EXPLICATION. 


Ir is evident all have not that precious faith whereby 
Christ dwelleth in our hearts; yea, the number of 
those that have it is small comparatively to the whole 
world that lieth in wickedness?*. and many of those 
that at length attain unto it, do continue without it 
for some considerable time.t And though some may 
have the spirit of faith given to them from their mo- 
ther’s womb (as John the Baptist} ) yet even in them 
there is a natural being by generation, before there 
can be a spiritual being by regeneration.§ Hence 
 ariseth the consideration of two states or conditions of 
the children of men in matters that appertain to God 


: * 1 John v, 19, 20, + Eph. ii, 12. t Luke i, 15, 44. 
an ‘ §1 Cor. xv, 46. 


eta be a oeredy- 


f 


78 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. V. 


and godliness ; the one of which is vastly different 
from the other. Those that have the happiness of a 
new birth and creation in Christ by faith, are thereby 
placed in a very excellent state, consisting in. the en- 
joyment of the righteousness of Christ for their justi- 
fication ; and of the spirit of Christ, to live by, in 
holiness here and glory for ever ; as hath already ap- 
fe: Those that are not in Christ by faith, cannot 

e in a better state than that which they received to- 
gether with their nature from the first Adam, by 
being once born and created in him, or than they can 
attain to by the power of that nature, with any such 
help as God is pleased to afford toit. This latter I call 
a natural state, because it consisteth in such things as 
we have either received by natural generation, or can 
attain to by natural power through divine assistance ; 
as the Scripture calleth man in this state the natural 
man.* The former I call a new state, because we 
enter into it by a new birth in Christ ; and I may call 
it a spiritual state, according to the Scripture, because 
it is received from Christ the quickening Spirit ; and 
the natural and spiritual man are opposed,t though 
some call both these states spiritual, because the ever- 
lasting weal and woe of the soul or spirit of man is 
chiefly concerned in them. 

Tt is a common error of those who are in a corrupt 
natural state, that they seek to reform their lives ac- 
cording to the law, without any thoughts that their 
state must be changed, before their lives can be 
changed from sin to righteousness. The heathens, 
who knew nothing of a new state in Christ, were 


urged by their own consciences, to practise several ~ 


duties of the law according to the knowledge they 
had by the light of nature.{ Israel according to the 
flesh had a zeal of God and godliness, and endeavoured 
to practise the written law, at least in external per- 
formances, while they were enemies to the faith of 


*1 Cor. ii, 143 f 1 Cor. ii, 14; 15.) | F Romadi, 14,15, | 


Direct. V. OF SANCTIFICATION. 79 


Christ. And Paul attained so far, that he was blame- 
less in these external performances of the righteous- 
ness of the law, while he persecuted the church of 
Christ.* Some are so near the kingdom of God, 
while they continue in a natural state, that they are 
convinced of the spirituality of the law, that it bind- 
eth us principally to love God with all our heart, soul, 
mind, and strength, and to love our neighbour as our- 
selves, and to perform universal obedience to God in 
all our inward thoughts and affections, as well as in 
all our outward actions, and to do all the duties that 
we owe to our neighbour out of this hearty love.t 
And they struggle and labour with great earnestness 
to subdue their inward thoughts and affections to the 
law of God, and to abstain not only from some sins, 
but from all known sins, and perform every known 
duty of the law with their whole heart and soul, as 
they think; and are so active and intent in their 
devout practice, that they overwork their natural 
strength, and so fervent is their zeal, that they are 
ready even to kill their bodies with fastings and other 
miacerations, that they may kill their sinful lusts. 
They are strongly convinced that holiness is absolutely 
necessary to salvation, and deeply affected with the 
terrors of damnation; and yet they were never so 
much enlightened in the mystery of the gospel, as to 
know that a new state in Christ is necessary to a new 
life; therefore they labour in vain to reform their 
natural state, instead of getting above it in Christ. 
And some of these, when they have misspent many 
years in striving against the stream of their lusts, 
without any success, do at last fall miserably into 
eas of ever attaining to holiness, and turn to 
wallowing in the mire of their lusts, or are fearfully 
swallowed up with horror of conscience. ‘There are 
_ several false opinions whereby such ignorant zealots 
- encourage themselves in their fruitless endeavours. 


ant af 


* * Phil, tii, 6. +) t Mark xii, 33, 34. 


80 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. V. 


Some of them judge that they are able to practise 
holiness, because they are not compelled to sin, and 
may abstain from it, if they will. ‘To this they add, 
that Christ, by the merit of his death, hath restored 
that freedom of will to do good, which was lost by the 
fall, and hath set nature upon its legs again; and 
that, if they endeavour to do what lieth in them, 
Christ will do the rest, by assisting them with the 
supplies of his saving grace; so they trust upon the 


grace of Christ to help them in-their endeavours. They _ 


plead further, that it would not consist with the jus- 
tice of God to punish them for sin, if they could not 
avoid it; and that it would be in vain for the minis- 
ters of the gospel to preach to them, and exhort them 
to any saving duty, if they cannot perform it, They 
produce examples of heathens, and of such as had the 
name of Christians, without any acquaintance with 
the faith that I have described, who have attained to 
a great excellency in religious words and works. 

My work at present is, to deliver those ignorant 
zealots from their fruitless tormenting labours, by 
bringing them to despair of the attainment of holiness 
in a natural state, that they may seek it only ina new 
state by faith in Christ, where they may certainly 
find it without such tormenting labour and anxiety 
of spirit. For this end I shall confirm the truth as- 
serted in the direction, and fortify it against the 
forementioned false opinions, by the ensuing consi- 
derations. 

First, The foundation of this assertion is firmly 
laid in the directions already explained, and confirmed 
by many places in Scripture. For, if all endowments 
necessary to enable us for a holy practice, be to be 
had only in astate of union and fellowship with Christ 
by faith, and faith itself, not by the natural power of 
free-will, but by the power of Christ coming into the 
soul by his Spirit, to unite us with himself; who 
seeth not that the attainment of true holiness by 
any of our most vigorous endeavours, while we con- 


\3 


ect. V. OF SANCTIFICATION. 


_ tinue in our natural condition, is altogether hopeless? 
Ineed add no more, were it not to shew more fully 
what abundance of light the Scripture affordeth to 
‘guide us aright in this part of our way, that those who 
wander out of it by following any false light of their 
own, or other’s corrupted judgments, may find them- 
selves the more inexcusable. 
__ Secondly, It is evident that-we cannot practise true 
holiness while we continue in anatural state : because 
we must be born again of water, and of the Spirit, or 
else we cannot enter into the kingdom of God;* and 
we are created in Christ Jesus unto good works, 
which God hath before ordained, that we should walk 
inthem.t If we could love God and our neighbour 
as the law requireth, without a new birth and crea- 
_ tion, we might live without them ; for Christ hath 
said, This do, and thou shalt live.t Now a new birth 
_ and creation is more than a mere reforming and re- 
pairing our natural state. If we were put into a cer- 
tain state and condition by the first birth and creation, 
much more by the second. Yor the first produceth 

the substance of a man as well as a state; the second 
hath nothing to produce but a new state of the same 

erson. And note, that we were first created and born 
in Adam, the natural man; but our new birth and 
ereation is in Christ, the spiritual man. And, if any 
man he in Christ, he is in a new state, far different 
from the state of Adam before the fall: he is wholly 

a new creature; as it is written, Old things are passed 

away; behold, all things are become new.$ 

__ Thirdly, It is positively asserted by the apostle 

Paul, that those who are in the flesh, cannot please 

- God.|| Many are too overly and negligent in consi- 

_ dering the sense of this gospel-phrase, what it is to be 

a the flesh. They understand no more by it than to 

he sinful, or to be addicted inordinately to please the 


i 4 ae 
m Hii, 3, 5. + Eph. ji, 10, ft Luke x, 8),  §2Cor.v,17.  ~ 

Rhee ia oil Rom, viltya 
‘al : Ka: 4 


82 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY __ Direct. V. 


sensitive appetite. They should consider that the 
apostle speaketh here of being in the flesh, as the 
cause of sinfulness; as, in the next verse he speaketh 
of being in the Spirit, as the cause of holiness: and, 
whatever cause it be, it must needs be distinct from its 
effect. Sin isa property of the flesh, or something that 
dwelleth in the flesh,* and therefore it is not the flesh 
itself. The flesh is that which lusteth against the 
Spirit,f and therefore it is not merely sinful lusting. 
The true interpretation is, that by flesh is meant the 
nature of man, as it is corrupted by the fall of Adam, 
and propagated from him to us, in that corrupt state, 
-by natural generation ; and to be in the flesh, is to be 
in a natural state; as to be in the Spirit is to be ina 
new state by the spirit of Christ dwelling in us.{° The 
corrupt nature is called flesh, because it is received by 
carnal generation ; and the new nature is called spirit, 
because it is received by spiritual regeneration. “That 
which is born of the flesh, is flesh ; and that which is 
born of the spirit, is spirit.”’§ So the apostle, if he 
be rightly understood, hath said enough to make us 
despair utterly of attaining to true holiness, while we 
continue in a natural state. 

Fourthly, The apostle testifieth, that those that have 
been taught as the truth is in Jesus, have learned to 
ayoid the former sinful conversation, by putting off the 
old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful 
lusts: and by putting on the new man, which, after 
God, is created in righteousness, and true holiness.|| 
Putting off the old man, and putting on the new man is 
the same thing with not being in the flesh,‘ but in the 
Spirit, in the foregoing testimony ; that is, putting off 
our natural state, and putting on a new state, by 
union and fellowship with Christ. The apostle him- 
self sheweth, that by the new man is meant that ex- 
cellent state where Christ is all, and in all.— There- 


* Rom, vii, 18. +Gal.v,17. Rom. vill.9.  § Johniil, 6, 
|| Eph. iv, 31, 22, 24. J Col. iii, 1. 


+t 
i 


Direct. V. OF SANCTIFICATION. 83 


fore by the old man must needs be meant the natural 
state of man, wherein he is without the saving enjoy- 
ment of Christ: which is called old, because of the 
new state to which believers are brought by their 
regeneration in Christ. This isa manner of expres- 
sion peculiar to the gospel, as well as the former, and 
as slightly considered by those that think that the 
apostle’s meaning is only, that they should put off 
sinfulness, and put on holiness in their €onversation ; 
and so they think to become new men by turning 
over a new leaf in their practice, and leading a new 
life. Let them learn here, that the old and new man 
are two contrary states, containing in them, not only 
sin and holiness, but all other things that dispose and 
incline us to the practice of them ; and that the old 
man must be put off, as crucified with Christ, before 
we can be freed from the practice of sin.* And 
therefore we cannot lead a new life, until we have first 
gotten a new state by faith in Christ. Let me add 
ere, that the meaning of the apostle is the same,t 
_ where he directeth us to put on the Lord Jesus Christ, 
as the means whereby we may cast off the deeds of 
darkness, and walk honestly, as in the day-time; not 
fulfilling the lusts of the flesh. 
_ _ Fifthly, Our natural state hath several properties 
_ that wholly disable us for the practice of holiness, and 
enslave us to the practice of sin, while we continue in 
it. Here I shall shew, that the old man, the flesh, or 
natural state, is not only sin, as some would have it ; 
_ but it containeth in it several things, which I shall 
_ name, that make it to be sinful, beside several other 
_ things that make it miserable. I have shewed, 
_ that in Christ we have all endowments necessary to 
ame us for godliness; so, in our fleshly state, we 
ave all things contrary to that holy frame. One 
g¢ belonging to our natural state, is the guilt of 
even of Adam’s first sin, and of the sinful depray- 


4 ‘VW Fee ‘ 
84 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Diehv. 
ation of our nature, and ofall our own actual transgres- 
sions; and therefore we are by nature the children of 
wrath,* and under the curse of God. The benefit of 
remission of our sins, and freedom from condemnation, 
is not given to us in the flesh, or in a natural state, 
but only in Christ.f And can we imagine, that a 
man should be able to prevail against sin, while God 
is against him, and curseth him?! Another property, 
inseparable from the former, is an evil conscience, 
which denounces the wrath of God against us for sin, 
and inclineth us to abhor him as our enemy, rather 
than to love him, as hath been shewed; or, if it be a 
blind conscience, it hardeneth us the more in our sins, 
A third property is an evil inclination, tending only 
to sin; which therefore is called sin that dwelleth in 
us, and the law of sin in our members, that power- 
fully subdueth and captivateth us to the service of 
sin.{ It is a fixed propensity to lust against the law 
without any deliberation; and therefore its lustings 
are not to be prevented by 7 diligence or watchful- 
ness. “The mind of the flesh is enmity against 
God; for it is not subject to the law of God, neither 
indeed can be.”§ How vain then is it to plead, that 
they can do good if they will, when their minds and 
will itself are enslaved to sin. A fourth property is 
subjection to the power of the devil, who is the god of 
this world, that hath blinded the minds of all that 
believe not, ! and will certainly conquer all whom he 
fighteth with upon his own dung-hill, that isin a na- 
tural state. And, from all these properties, we may 
well conclude, that our natural state hath the pro- 
perty, never to do good, to be stark dead in sin,{] 
according to the sentence denounced against the first 
sin of mankind in Adam. “In the day that thou — 
eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die.”[ For you can — 
no more bring it to holiness, by any the most vehe- 


* Eph. ii, 3. ¢ Rom. viii, 1. Eph.i,7. Rom. vii, 20,93. 
§ Rom. viii, 7. |] 2Cor. iv, 4, Eph. ii, 1. [Gen fi,17. 


‘ment motives and endeavours, than you can bring a 
dead carcase to life, by chafing and rubbing it. You 
can stir up no strength or fortifying grace in the na- 
tural man by such motives and endeavours; because 
; there is no strength in him to be stirred up.* Though 
f you do all that lieth in you to the utmost, while you 
are in this flesh, you can do nothing but sin; for there 
‘" is no good thing in you; asthe apostle Paul sheweth 
by his own experience. “I know, that in me (that 
is, in my flesh) dwelleth no good thing.” ft 
r Siathly, We have no good ground to trust on Christ 
_ to help us to will or to do that which is acceptable to 
- him, while we continue in our natural state; or to 
_ imagine, that freedom of will to holiness is restored 
to us by the merit of his death, For, as it hath been 
already shewed, Christ aimed at a higher end in his 
incarnation, death, and resurrection, than the restor- 
ing the decay and ruins of our natural state. He 
aimed to advance us to a new state, more excellent 
than the state of nature ever was, by union and fel- 
 lowship with himself; that we might live to God, 
not by the power of a natural free-will, but by the 
power of his Spirit living and acting in us. So we 
may conclude, that our natural state is irrecoverable 
- and desperate, because Christ, the only Saviour, did 
not aim at the recovery of it. It is neither holy nor 
_ happy, but subject to sin, and to all miseries, as long 
asitremaineth, Even those that are in a new state 
‘in Christ, and do serve the law of God with their 
mind, do yet with their flesh serve the law of sin,t 
_as far as it remaineth in them, it lusteth against the 
Spirit ;§ and it remaineth dead, because of sin, even 
-when the spirit is life to them, because-of righteous- 
_ ness;|| and must be heme & abolished by death, befor 
we can be perfected in that holiness and happiness 
that is by faith in Christ. After God had promised 


t Rom. vii, 18. : t Rom. vii, 25. 


_* Rom. v, 6. 
, (|| Rom, viii, 10. 


PS ey rye ¢ a ik 


86 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. V. 


salvation by Christ, the seed of the woman, he placed 
cherubims, and a flaming sword to keep man out of 
paradise; thereby teaching him, that his first state - 
was lost without hope, and that the happiness in- 
tended for him, was wholly new. Our old natural 
man was not revived and reformed by the death of 
Christ, but crucified together with him, and therefore 
to be abolished and destroyed out of us by virtue of 
his death.* It is like the parts’ of a garment infected 
with the plague of leprosy, which was to be rent off 
as incurable, that the garment might be clean.f “If 
Christ be not in us, we are reprobates,”} i. e. we are 
in a state which God hath rejected from partaking of 
his salvation; so that we are not to expect any assis- 
tance from God to make us holy in it, but rather to 
deliver us from it. i: 
Seventhly, This doth not at all discharge those that 

are in a natural state from obligation to holiness of | 
life, nor render them excusable for their sins at the __ 
tribunal of God’s justice. For “God hathmademan — 
upright, but they sought out many paca 
Observe well the words of this text, and you wi 
find, that all they who have sought out many inyen- 
tions, rather than upright walking, are comprehended 
in man that was at first made upright. And man, in 
the text, signifieth all mankind. ‘The first Adam was 
all mankind, as Jacob and Esau were two nations in 
the womb of Rebecea.|| God made us all, in our first 
parent, according to his own image, able and inclined 
to do his law; and, in that pure nature, our obliga- 
tion to obedience was first laid upon us; and the first 
wilful transgression, whereby our first parent bereaved 
himself of the image of God, and brought upon him- 
self the sentence of death, was our sin as wellas his; _ 
for in one man, Adam, all have sinned, and so death is 
passed upon all, because all mankind were in Adam’s 


* Rom. vi, 6. t+ Ley. xiii, 56. P2Cor xii; 5: 
§ Eccl. vii, 29. || Gen. xxv, 23. '§ Rom.iv; 120) 4 
{ F oui 3 


Viale c 
_ Direct. V. OF SANCTIFICATION. 87 
loins, when the first sin was committed; even as Levi 
may be said to have paid tithes in Abraham before he 
was born; because, when his father Abraham paid 
tithes to Melchizedeck, he was yet in his loins.* 
That the promise of God, that he will not charge the 
 iniquities of parents upon their children, is a promise 
belonging to the new covenant confirmed in the blood 
of Christ ; and it is yea and amen tous only in Christ ; 
in whom we haye another nature than that which our 
parents conveyed to us; so that we cannot justly 
claim the benefit of it in our old natural state.t 
Those that account their impotency a sufficient plea 

_ to excuse them or others, shew that they were never 
truly humbled for that great wilful transgression of 
all mankind in the loins of Adam. Inability to pay 
debt, excuseth not a debtor that hath lavished away 
his estate ; neither doth drunkenness excuse the mad 
actings of a drunkard, but rather aggravates his sin. 
And our impotency consisteth not in a mere want of 
executive power, but in the want of a willing mind, 
to practice true holiness and righteousness. Naturally 
we love it not, we like it not, but lust against it, and 
hate the light.§ If men in a natural state had a 

. hearty love and liking to true holiness, and a desire 
_ and serious endeavour to practise it out of hearty love, 
and yet failed in the event, then they might under 
some pretence plead for their excuse,'(as some do for 
them) that they were compelled to sin by an inevit- 
able fate. But none have a just cause to plead any 
such thing for their excuse; because none endeavour 
to practice true holiness out of hearty love to it, until 

_ the good work be begun in their souls: and, when 
_ God hath begun, he will perfect it;|| and will in the 
mean time accept their ready mind though they fall 
_ short in performance.] ‘ How abominable then and 


% Heb. vii, 9, 10. } Jer, Xxxi, 29, 30, 31. 2 Cor. i, 20. 

Gal. v, 17. § John iii, 20. \ | Phil, i, 6. 
‘ : q 2 Cor, vili, 12. 
) 


ae 


eae | 


88 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY - Direct. V. 


filthy is man, that drinketh iniquity as water ?”’* that 
cannot practice holiness, because he will not? This is 
their just condemnation, “that they love darkness 
rather than light.” They deserve to be partakers 
with the devils in torments, as they partake with 
them in evil lusts; and their inability to do good, 
will no more excuse them, than it excuseth the devils. 
Highthly, Neither will this assertion make it a vain 
thing to preach the gospel to natural people, and to 
exhort them to true repentance, and faith in Christ, 
for their conversion and salvation. For the design of 
our preaching isnot to bring them to holiness in their 
natural state, but to raise them above it, and to pre- 
sent them perfect in Christ, in the performance of 
those duties.t And though they cannot perform those 
duties by their natural strength, yet the gospel is 
made effectual for their conversion and salvation, b 
the power of the Holy Ghost, which accompaniet 
the preaching of it, to quicken those that are dead in 
sin, and to create them anew in Christ, by giving to 
them repentance unto life, and a lively faith in Christ. 
The gospel cometh to the elect of God, not only in 
word, but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and 
in such assurance, that they receive it with joy of the 
Holy Ghost.t “The gospel is the ministration of the 
Spirit, that giveth life ;§ it is mighty through God.’ || 
It dependeth not at all upon the power of our free- 
will, to make it successful for our conversion; but it 
conveyeth into the soul that life and power whereby 
we receive and obey it. Christ can make those that 
are dead in sin to hear his voice, and live.4{ There- 
fore he can speak to them by his gospel, and command 
them to repent and believe with good success, as well 
‘as he fou say to dead carcases, Talitha cumi,** 
Lazarus come forth ;++ and to the sick of the palsy, 
Arise, take up thy bed, and go into thine house. }{ 


* Job xv, 16. _ ft Col. i, 28. $1 Thess. i,.5, 6. 
§ 2 Cor. iii, 6—8. || 2 Cor, x, 4. q John v, 25, 44, 


** Mark vy, 41. tft John xi, 43, tt Matt. ix. 6. 


Direct. V. OF SANCTIFICATION, : 89 


Ninthly, There is no reason that the examples of 
_ heathen philosophers, or any Jews or Christians by 
outward profession, that have lived without the sav- 
ing knowledge of God in Christ, should moye us, by 

_ their wise sayings and renowned attainments, in the 

_ practice of deyotion and morality, to recede from this 

_ truth, that hath been so fully confirmed out of the 

holy Scriptures. Have we not cause to judge, that 
the apostle-Paul, while he was a zealous Pharisee, and 
at least some few of the great multitude of the Jews 

in his time, that were zealous of the law, and had the 

_ instruction of the holy Scriptures, attained as near to 
that true holiness, as the heathen philosophers, or any 
others in their natural state? Yet Panl, after he was 
enlightened. with the saving knowledge of Christ, 

_ judged himself the chief of sinners, in his highest for- 
mer attainments ; though, in the judgment of others, 
he was blameless tonching the righteousness which is 
in the law; and he found it necessary to begin to live 
to God in a new way by faith in Christ, and to suffer 
the loss of all his former attainments, and to count 

_ them but dung, that he might win Christ.* 

And none of the great multitude of Jews that fol- 
lowed after the law of righteousness, did ever attain 
unto it, while they sought it not by faith in Christ. 
What performances are greater in outward appear- 
ance, than for a man to give all his goods to the poor, 
and to give his body to be burnt? and yet the Serip- 
ture alloweth us to suppose that this may be done . 

- without true charity, and therefore without any true 

_ holiness of the heart and life.{ Men in anatural state 

_ may have strong convictions of the: infinite power, 

- wisdom, justice, and goodness of God, and of the judg- 

ment to come, and the everlasting happiness of the 

dly, and torments of the wicked : and these convic- 
may stir them up, not only to make a high pro- 

n, and to utter rare sayings concerning God and 

Fs 1) 
tii, 6—8, | ae ix, 31,32, $1 Cor, xili, 3. 


Ce te 


_ohta St. Se 


90 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. V. 


godliness ; but also to labour with great earnestness to 
avoid all known sin, to subdue their lusts, to perform 
universal obedience to God in all known duties, and 
to serve him with their lives and estates to the ut- 
most, and to extort out of their hearts some kind of 
love to God and godliness, that, if possible, they may 
escape the terrible torments of hell, and procure ever- 
lasting happiness by their endeavours: yet all their 
love to God is but forced and feigned; they have no 
hearty liking to God or his service; they account him 
a hard master and his commandments grievous, and 
they repine and fret inwardly at the burden of them: 
and, were it not for fear of everlasting fire, they would 
little regard the enjoyment of God in heaven; and 
they. would be glad if they might have the liberty to 
enjoy their lusts without danger of damnation. The 
highest preferment of those that are born only after 
the flesh in Abraham’s family, is but to be children 
of the bond-woman.* And though they toil more in 
God’s service than many of his dear children, yet God 
accepteth not their service, because their best perfor- 
mances are slavish, without any child-like affections 
towards God, and no better than glistering sins. And 
yet these natural men are not at all beholden to the 
goodness of their natures for these counterfeit shews 
of holiness, or for the least abstaining from the gross- 
est sin. If God should leave men fully to their own 
natural corruptions, and to the power of satan (as the 

deserve), all shew of religion and morality should be 
quickly banished out of the world, and we should 
grow past feeling in wickedness, and like to the canni- 
bals, who are as good by nature as ourselves. But 
God, that can restrain the burning of the fiery furnace 
without quenching it, and the flowing of water with- 
out changing its nature, doth also restrain the work- 
ing of natural corruption without mortifying it: and, 
through the greatness of his wisdom and power, he 


* Gal, iv, 23. 


Direct. VI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 91 


- maketh his enemies to yield feigned obedience to him,* 

_ and to do many things good for the matter of them, 
though they can do nothing in a right holy manner. 

_ He hath appointed several means to restrain our cor- 
5 So joes as the law, terrors of conscience, terrible 
judgments and rewards in this life, magistrates, hu- 
man laws, labour for necessaries, as food and raiment. 
7 And those gospel means that are effectual for sancti- 
fication, serve also for restraint of sin. God hath gra- 
cious ends in this restraint of sin, that his Church may 
be preserved, and his gospel preached in the world; 
and that these natural men may be in a better capa- 
city to receive the instructions of the gospel: and that 
such of them as are chosen, may, in due time, be 
converted ; and that those of them that are not truly 
_ converted, may enjoy more of the goodness of God 
here, and suffer the less torments hereafter. As vile 
and wicked as the world is, we have cause to praise, 
and to magnify the free goodness of God, that it is no 

worse, 


15 DIRECTION V1. 
Those that endeayour to perform sincere obedience to all the com- 
mands of Christ, as the condition whereby they are to procure for 
themselves aright and title to salvation, and a good ground to trust 
5 on him for the same, do seek their salvation by the works of the law, 
' and not by the faith of Christ, as he is revealed in the gospel: and 
they shall never be able to perform sincerely any true holy obedi- 

ence by all such endeavours. 


. 


ae EXPLICATION. 


For the understanding the terms of this direction, 

te here, that I take salvation as comprehending jus- 

fication, as well as other saving benefits ; and sincere 

obedience as comprehending holy resolutions, as well 

he fulfilling of them. ‘The most of men, that have 
ef! \\ 


‘ 


. 


92 THE GOSPEL Mystery § Direct. VI. 


any sense of religion, are prone to imagine, that the 
sure way to establish the practice of holiness and right- 
eousness, is to make it the procuring condition of the 
favour of God and all happiness, This may appear by 
the various false religions that have proma most 
in the world. In this way the Heathens were brought 
to their best devotion and morality, by the knowledge 
of the judgment of God, that those that violate several 
of the great duties to God and their neighbour, are - 
worthy of death ; and by their consciences accusing or 
excusing them, according to the practice of them.* 
Our consciences are informed by the common light of 
natural reason, that it is just with God to require us 
to perform these duties, that we may avoid his wrath, 
sad enjoy his favour. And we cannot find any bet- 
ter way than this to obtain happiness, or to stir up 
ourselves to duty, without Divine revelation. Yet, — 
because our own consciences testify, that we often fail 
in the performance of these duties, we are inclined by 
self-love to persuade ourselves, that our sincere endea- 
vours to do the best we can, shall be sufficient to pro- 
cure the favour of God, and pardon for all our failings. _ 
Thus we see, that the persuasion of salvation by the — 
condition of sincere obedience, hath its original from 
our corrupt natural reason, and is part of the wisdom 
of this world. It is none of the wisdom of Godin a 
mystery, that hidden wisdom which God ordained be- 
fore the world to his glory; it is none of those things 
of the Spirit of God, which have not entered into the 
heart of man, and which the natural man cannot re- 
ceive; for they are foolishness to him; neither can he 
know them, for they are spiritually discerned.f Itis © 
none of the foolishness of preaching whereby it pleas- 
ed God to save them that believe.{ And though we © 
have a better way revealed to us in the gospel, for the _ 
enjoyment of the favour of God, and holiness itself, 
and all salvation, without any procuring condition of 


ee ae 


* Rom, i, 32. & ii, 14,15, + 1 Cor. fi, 6, 7, 9, 14. VCor. 4,91," ) 5 
“¢ ati id 


4 


A i Ne e.72 4 Agee Oe Syd 


woe 


Direct. VI. OF SANCTIFICATION, 93 


works, by the free gift of God’s grace through faith in 
Christ; yet it is very difficult to persuade men out ofa 
way they are naturally addicted to, and that hath fore- 
stalled and captivated their judgments, and is bred in 
their bone, and therefore cannot casily be gotten out 
of the flesh. Most of those that live under the hear- 
ing and profession of the gospel, are not brought to 
hate sin as sin, and to love godliness for itself, though 
they be convinced of the necessity of it to salvation ; 
and therefore they cannot love it heartily. The only 
means they can take to bring themselves to it, is to 
stir up themselves to a hypocritical practice in their 
old natural way, that they may ayoid hell, and get 
heaven by their works. And their own consciences 
witness, that the zeal and love that they have for God 
and godliness, their self-denial, sorrow for sin, strict- 
ness of life, are in a manner forced and extorted from 
them by slavish fear and mercenary hope; so that 
they are afraid, that, if they should trust on Christ 
for salvation by free grace without works, the fire of 
their zeal and devotion would be quickly extinguish- 
ed, and they should grow careless in religion, and let 
loose the reins to their lusts, and bring certain dam- 
nation upon themselyes. This moveth them to ac- 
count them the only Boanerges and powerful preach- 
ers that preach little or none of the doctrine of free 
grace, but rather spend their pains in rebuking sin, 
and urging people to get Christ and his salvation by 
their works, and thundering hell and damnation 
against sinners. It hath been farther observed, that 
some that have contended much for salvation by free 
grace, without any condition of works, have fallen into 
antinomian opinions, and licentious practices, The 
experience of these things hath much prevailed with 


some learned and zealous men of lateamongst ourselves, 
. to recede from the doctrine of justification by faith, 


without works, formerly professed unanimously, and 
strongly defended by the Protestants against the Pa- 
_ pists, as a principal article of true religion, They have 


- 
Wor 


; : . ? ‘ 
94 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VI. 


persuaded themselves, that such a way of justification 
is ineffectual, yea, destructive to sanctification ; and 
that the practice of sincere obedience cannot be esta- 
blished against antinomian dotages and prevailing lusts, 
except it be made the necessary condition of our jus- 
tification, and so of our eternal salvation. Therefore 
they conclude, that God hath certainly made sincere 
obedience to be the condition of our salvation. And 
they have endeavoured te new-model the Protestant 
doctrine, and to interpret the holy Scriptures ina way 
agreeable and subservient to this, their only sure foun- 
dation of holiness. _ 

But I hope to shew, that this their imagined sure 
foundation of holiness was never laid by the holy God ; 
but that it is rather an error in the foundation, perni- 
cious to the true faith, and to holiness of life... I ac- 
count it an error especially to be abhorred and detes- 
ted, because we are so prone to be seduced by it, and 
because it is an error whereby satan, transforming 
himself into an angel of light, and a patron of holiness, 
hath greatly withstood the gospel in the apostles 
times, and stirred up men to persecute it out of zeal 
for the law; and hath since prevailed to set up and 
maintain Popery, whereby the mystery of iniquity 
worketh apace in these days, to corrupt the purity of 
the gospel among Protestants, and to heal the deadly 
wound that was given ‘to Popery by preaching the 
doctrine of justification by faith without works. 

One thing asserted in the direction against this fun- 
damental error, is, that it isa way of salvation by the 
works of the law, and not by the faith of Christ, as 


_ revealed in the gospel: though the maintainers of it 


would have us believe, that it is the only way of the 
gospel; that so we may not doubt of its power and 
efficacy for our justification, sanctification, and our 
whole salvation. Their reasons are, because the law, 
as a covenant of works, requireth us to do all its 
commandments perfectly, that we may live; where- 
as they plead only fora milder condition of sincere 


Direct. V1. OF SANCTIFICATION. 95 


- 
doing, that we may live. . And they plead not for 
doing duties, as obliged thereunto by the autho- 
_ rity of the law given of God by Moses, but only in 
_ obedience to the commands of Christ in the gospel. 
_ Neither do they plead for salvation by sincere obedi- 
_ ence without Christ, but only by Christ, and through 
_ his merit and righteousness. And they acknowledge, 
_ that both salvation itself, and- sincere obedience, are 
_ given to them freely, by the grace of Christ ; so that 
all is of grace. They acknowledge also, that their 
salvation is by faith, because sincere obedience is 
wrought in them by believing the gospel, and is in- 
_ eluded in the nature of that faith, which is the entire 
- condition of our salvation, and some call it the resig- 
nation act of faith. But all these reasons are but a 
fallacious vizard upon a legal way of salvation, to 
make it look like pure gospel; as I shall evince by 
_ the following particulars. 
| First, All that seek salvation by the sincere per- 
formance of good works, as the procuring condition, 
are condemned by the apostle Paul, for seeking right- 
eousness by the works of the law and not by faith,* 
_and for seeking to be justified by the law, and falling 
from the grace of Christ.f This one assertion, ifvit 
ean be proved, is enough to pluck off the fallacious 
Vizard from the condition of sincere obedience, and to 
make men abhor it as a damning legal doctrine, that 
bereaveth its followers of all salvation by Christ. 
_ And the proof of it is not difficult to eesosia that wari- 
ly consider a point of so great moment for their sal- 
yation. The Jews and judaizing Christians, against 
whom the apostle chiefly disputed in his whole con- 
roversy, did not profess any hope of being justified 
perfect obedience, according to the rigour of the 
, but only by such obedience as they accounted to 
sincere, and not hypocritical. And we have no cause 
doubt, but that the judaizing Galatians had learn- 
d by the gospel to distinguish sincere obedience from 
n ‘ FE Gales eg) 


y 


ee ee 


= = 


96 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. V1. 


hypocrisy. The Jewish religion bound all that pro- 
fessed it, to acknowledge themselves 10 be sinners; as 
appeareth by their anniversary humiliation on the 
day of atonement, and several other rites of the law, 
and many clear testimonies in the oracles of God, that 
were committed to them.* Yet they knew they were 
bound to turn to the Lord with all their hearts, in 
sincerity and uprightness, and that God would accept 
of sincere obedience ; for which cause they might 
better put it-for the condition of the law, than we can 
of the gospel.t So that, if the apostle had disputed 
against those that held only perfect obedience to be 
the condition of justification, he had contended with 
his own shadow. And they might as readily judge 
sincere obedience to be the condition of justification 
under the law, as we can judge it to be the condition 
under the gospel. Neither doth the apostle condemn 
them merely for accounting sincere obedience to the 
law as given by Moses, to be the condition of their 
justification, but more generally for seeking salvation 
by their own works. And he alledgeth against them, 
that Abraham, who lived before the law of Moses, 
was not justified by any of his works, though he did 
perform sincere obedience; and that David, who lived 
under the law of Moses, was not justified by his works, 
though he performed sincere obedience, and was as 
much bound to obey the law given by Moses, as we 
are to obey any commands of Christ in the gospel.t 
Neither doth he eondemn them for sceling their sal- 
vation only by works, without respecting at all the 
grace and salvation that is by Christ; for the judaiz- 
ing Galatians were yet professors of the grace and sal- 
vation of Christ, though they thought obedience to 
the law a necessary condition for the partaking of it, 
as also many other judaizing believers did. And, 
doubtless, they accounted ‘themselves obliged there- 


* Psalm cxliii, 2. Prov. x,9. Eccl. vii, 20. 
+ Psalm li, 6,10. Deut, vi, 5. and xxx, 10. Rom. iv, 2, 3, 5, 6. 


5 


Direct, VI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 97 


unto, not only by the authority of Moses, but of Christ 
_also, whom they owned as their Lord and Saviour. 
And we may be sure it was no damning error, to ac- 
count Moses’s law obliging at that time; for many 
thousands of the Jews, that were found believers, held 
the ceremonies of Moses to be in force at that time, 
and Paul was tender towards them in it.* And other 
Jews sought justification, not only by their sincere 
works, but also by trusting on the promise made to 
Abraham, and on their priesthood and sacrifices; 
which were types of Christ. And the more legal 
Pharisees would thank God for their good works, as 
proceeding from his grace.t And they could as well 
acknowledge their salvation to be by faith, as the as- 
serters of salvation by sincere obedience can in these 
days ; for they accounted, that their sincere obedience 
was wrought in them by believing the word of God, 
which contained gospel as well as legal doctrine in it ; 
and therefore that it must be included in the nature 
of faith, if faith was taken for the condition of their 
whole salvation. Let the asserters of the condition of 
sincere obedience learn from hence, that they are 
building again that Judaism which the apostle Paul 
destroyed, whereby the Jews stumbled at Christ,+ 
and the Galatians were in danger of falling from Christ 
and grace, and let them beware of falling under that 
eurse which he hath denounced, on this yery occasion, 
against any man or angel that shall preach any other 
gospel than that which he hath preached. || 
Secondly, The difference between the law and gospel 
doth not at all consist in this, that the one requireth 
erfect doing; the other, only sincere' doing; but in 
this, that the one requireth doing ; the other, no doing 
but believing for life and salvation. Their terms are 
different, not only in degree, but in their whole 
nature. 


! 
i 


 * Acts xxi, 20, 26, &xv.5,  } Luke xviii, 11.  t Rom. ix, 32. 
so § Gal. v, 2,4. || Gal. i, 8) 9. 
As 5 ' I s 4 


i 


——— 


NO 4 i ee eee 


98 THE GOSPEL Mystery Direct. VI. 


The apostle Paul opposeth the believing required 
in the gospel; to all doing for life, as the condition 
proper to the law.* “The law is not of faith; but 
the man that doth them, shall live in them.t ‘To 
him that worketh not, but believeth on him that 
justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righte- 
ousness.” If we seek salvation by never so easy and 
mild a condition of works, we do thereby bring our- 
selyes under the terms of the law, and do become 
debtors to fulfil the whole law in perfection, though we 
intended to engage ourselves only to fulfil it in part,} 
for the law is a complete declaration of the only terms 
whereby God will judge all that are not brought to 
despair of procuring salvation by any of their own 
works, and to receive it as a gift freely given to them 
by the grace of God in Christ. So that all that seck 
salvation, right or wrong, knowingly or ignorantly, 
by any works, less or more, whether invented by 
their own superstition, or commanded by God in the 
Old or New Testament, shall at last stand or fall ac- 
cording to those terms. 

Thirdly, Since obedience cannot be performed to all 
the commands of Christ in the gospel, except it be 
also performed to the moral law, as given by Moses, 
and as obliging us by that authority. Some asserters 
of the condition. of salvation by sincere obedience to 
the commands of Christ, would fain be free from the 
authority of the law of Moses, because that justifieth 
none, but thundereth out a curse against all those 
that seek salvation by the works of it.§ But if they 
were at all justified by sincere works, their respect to 
Moses’s authority would not hinder their success; for 
many that were good Christians, accounted them- 
selves bound to obey, not only the moral, but the 
ceremonial law; and, if they had sought justification 
by any works, they would have sought it by those.|| 


* Gal. ili, 12. t+ Rom.iv,5. $Gal.v,3. “§Gal.iij10, 21. 
|| Acts xx, 20, 21. 


ni! Sl } 
ect. VI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 


‘They knew not of any justification by sincere works, 
as conimanded only in the gospel; yet, if they had 
erred in any thing absolutely necessary to salvation, 
the apostles would not have tolerated their weakness, 
And, whether they will or no, they must secix their 
salvation by the works of the moral law, as given b 
‘Moses, or else they can never get it by sincere obedi- : 
ence to the commands of Christ. Christ never loved 
Bebeir new condition so well, as to abolish the Mosaical 
authority of the moral law, for the establishment of 
it. He came not to destroy the law and the prophets, 
but to fulfil them, in the practice required by them ; 
and hath declared, that “those that break one of the 
_ least of these commandments, and teach men so, shall 
be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but 
whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be 
ealled great in the kingdom of heaven.”* He com- 
-tmandeth us to do to men whatsoever we would 
_ they should do to us, because this is the law and the 
provpeta which is sufficient to prove, that he would 
have us to account the law authoritative to oblige us 
in this matter. He requireth his disciples to observe 
and do whatsoever the scribes and pharisees bid them, 
_ because they sat in Moses’s seat. 
And, to come to the point in hand, when -Christ 
had occasion to answer the questions of those that 
were guilty of the same error that I am now dealing 
with, in secking salvation by their own works, he 
_ shewed them, that they must obey the commands as 
_ they were already established by the Mosaical autho- 
ity, in the Scripture of the old Testament: “ What 


5 


written? how readest thou? This do, and thou 
halt live.t If thou wilt enter into life, keep the 
mumandments ; which are Thou shalt do no murder, 
‘hou shalt not commit adultery, Sc.” 4 
like manner, the apostles of Christ urged the i 
rformance of moral duties upon believers, by the 
17,19. Matt. xxiii, 2, 3. t Luke x, 26, 28. 
: Hott 
peor 


100 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VI, 


authority of the law given by Moses. The apostle 
Paul exorteth to love one another, because he that 
loveth another, hath fulfilled the law :* and to honour 
our father and mother, which is the first command- 
ment with promise.f The apostle John exorteth to 
love others, as no new, but an old commandment. 
The apostle James exhorteth to fulfil the royal law, 
according to the Scripture, Thou shalt love thy neigh- 
bour as thyself; and to keep all the commandments 
of the law, one as well as another; because he that 
said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill. 
Sound Protestants have accounted the denial of the 
authority of the moral law of Moses to be an antino- 
mian error. And though our late preyaricators 
against antinomianism maintain not this error, yet 
they establish a worse error, justification by their 
sincere gospel-works. I think the denomination of 
the Antinomians arose from this error. The law of 
Moses had its authority at first from Christ; for 
Christ was the Lord God of Israel, that ordained the 
law by angels on mount Sinai, in the hand of Moses, 
a mediator for the Israelites, who were then his only 
church, and with whom we believing Gentiles are 
now joined, as fellow-members of one and the same 
body.§ And though Christ hath since abrogated 
some of the commandments then given by Moses, 
concerning figurative ceremonies and judicial pro- 
ceedings, yet he hath not annulled the obligative 
authority of the moral law, but hath left it im its full 
force, to oblige us in moral duties, that are still to be 
practised; as, when some acts of any parliament are 
repealed, the authority of the same parliament re- 
maineth inviolable in other acts that are not repealed. 
I know they object, that the ten commands of the 
moral law, the ministration of death, written and en- — 
graven on stones, are also done away by Christ.|| But 


* Rom. xiii, 8. + Eph. vi, 2. $ James ii, 8, 10, 11. 
§ Eph. iiiy-6. || 2 Cor, ili, 7. 


LoS 7 
bal 


OF SANCTIFICATION. | 


é. 
. 


rect, 


_ this faaketh altogether against their conditional cove- ‘ 
nant: for they are the ministration of death, and done a 
away, not as they commanded perfect obedience, for 
even Christ himself commandeth us to be perfect ;* 
but as they were conditions for procuring life, and 
_ayoiding death, established by a promise of life to the 
doers, and a curse to the. breakers of them.t The ; 
covenant made with Israel on mount Sinai, is abo- 
lished by Christ, the Mediator of the new covenant. 
And the Ten Commandments binds us not as they 
were words of that covenant ;§ I mean, they bind us 
not as conditions of that covenant, except we seek to 
he justified by works; for the law, as a covenant doth 
still stand in force enough to curse those that seek salva- 
tion by their own works;|| and, if abolished, it is onl 
to those that are in Christ by faith. But the Ten 
Commandments bind us still, as they were then given 
_to a people that were at that time under the covenant 
of grace made with Abraham, to shew them what 
duties are holy, just, and good, well pleasing to God, 
and to be a rule for their conversation. The result of 
all is, that we must still practise moral duties, as 
commanded by Moses; but we must not seek to be 
“ iomine by our practice. If we use them as a rule of 
life, not as conditions of justification, they can be no 
ministration of death, or killing letter unto us. Their 
perfection indeed maketh them to be harder terms to 
procure life by, but a better rule to discover all im- 
perfections, and to guide us to that perfection which 
we should aim at. And it will be our wisdom not to 
part with the authority of the decalogue of Moses, 
until our new divines can furnish us with another 
yystem of morality as complete as that, and as excel- 
lently composed and ordered by the wisdom of God, 
d more authentic than that is. 
“ee x 
att. v, 48.  +Gal. iii, 10,12,’ — ¢ Heb. viii, 8, 9, 13. - 
Exod. xxxiv, 28. {| Gal. iii, 10. { Gal. il, 19, 20. 
i Acts iii, 22, 25,and xv, 10,11, | 
Rein A Dh i 


wea 


x 


\ ae se 


102 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VI. 


Fourthly, Those that endeayour to procure Christ’s 
salvation by their sincere obedience to all the com- 
mands of Christ, do act contrary to that way of salva- 
tion by Christ, free grace, and faith, discovered in the 

rel, though they own it in profession never so 
ighly. 

ise: They act contrary to the way of salvation by 
Christ; for they would heal themselves and save 
themselves from the power and pollution of sin, and 
procure God’s favour, by performing sincere obe- 
dience, before they are come to Christ the only Phy- 
sician and Saviour. They lay their own obedience 
lowest in the foundation of their salvation, and build 
the enjoyment of Christ upon it; who ought to be the 
only foundation, They would sanctify themselves 
before they have a sure interest in Christ ; and, going 
about to establish their own righteousness, they do 
not submit themselves to the righteousness of God in 
Christ.* Sometimes they will call the righteousness 
of Christ, their legal righteousness, that they may 
make room for an evangelical righteousness of their 
own works, to be the immediate procuring cause of 
their justification by Christ; whereas the apostle 
Paul knew no evangelical righteousness but that of 
Christ, which he calleth the righteousness of faith 
without the law,t and not of the law.{t Thus they 
make void Christ’s salvation while they pretend to 
own it, and Christ profiteth them nothing. Christ is 
become of none effect to them, while they would be 
justified by the law.§ If we would be saved by 
Christ, we must own ourselves dead, lost sinners, that 
can have no righteousness for justification but his, no 
life or ability to do good, until God bring us into 
union and fellowship with him. Bei 

2d, They do also act contrary to salvation by grace, 
according to the true meaning of the gospel. For we 


* Rom, x, 3, 4. + Rom. iii, 21, 22, t Phil. iii,9. - 
§ Gal. v, 2, 4. 


Direct. VI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 105 


are not saved by grace, as the supreme cause of salva- 
tion by the intervention of works given and accepted 
by grace, as the procuring cause: in which sense we 
might be saved by grace, though by a covenant of 
| works; as a servant that hath monies given him by 
_his master, to purchase an annuity of his master at a 
low rate, may profess that he had an annuity given 
him freely, and yet that he hath purchased it, and 
may claim it as a due debt. But we are saved by 
grace, as the immediate and complete cause of our 
whole salvation, excluding procurement of our salva- 
‘tion by the condition of works, and claiming it by any 
law asa due debt. The Scripture teacheth us, that 
there is a perfect opposition and utter irreconcileable- 
ness between salvation by grace and works: “If by 
grace, then it is no more of works; otherwise grace is 
no more grace: but, if it be of works, then it is no 
more grace: otherwise work is no more work.”* So 
also there is an opposition between a reward reckoned 
of grace, and of debt ;f between a promise of happi- 
ness by the law and by grace.{ God is so jealous of 
the glory of his free grace, that he will not save us by 
any works, though of his own working in us, lest any 
man should boast.§ He knoweth when he healeth 
men by physic, or maintaineth them by the labour of 
their hands, they are prone to attribute the glory 
rather to the means they use, than to his sole bounty 
and goodness. 
__ 3d, They do also act contrary to the way of salvation 
by faith: for, as I have shewed already, the faith 
which is required for our salvation in the gospel, is to 
be understood in a sense contrary to doing good 
works as a condition to procure our salvation, that so 
\the true difference between the terms of the law and 
the gospel may be maintained. Believing is opposed 
| to all working for salvation, and the law of works to 
* Rom, xi, 6. + Rom. iv, 4, }{ Rom, iv, 13, 16, 
§ Eph, ii, 9. 


ve 


we i» 


Mikel 


104 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VI. 


the law of faith.* Therefore we must not here con- 
sider faith as a work of righteousness, as comprehend- 
ing any works of righteousness performed or done as 
a condition to procure a right and title to Christ, as 
the hand whereby we work, to earn him as our bread 
and drink, as our wages; but only as the hand 
whereby we receive Christ, as freely given to us, or as 
the mouth whereby we eat and drink him; as hath 
been proved. God giveth a sufficient right to receive 
Christ and his salvation by the free gospel-offer and 
invitation ; so that he leaveth nothing for our faith to 
do, but to lay hold of him as a free gift, that the 
glory of our salvation may not be ascribed at all to 
our faith or works, but only to this free grace of God 
in Christ: “Tt is of faith, that it may be by grace.” + 
Fifthly, Christ or his apostles never taught a gospel 
that requixeth such a condition of works for salvation 
as they plead for. The texts of Scripture which they 
usually allege tor their purpose, are either contrary to 
it, or widely distant from it; as they might learn 
from many Protestant interpreters, if their affection 
to a Popish tenct had not blinded them. I shall in- 
stance briefly only a few of these texts, whereby 
you may have some light to judge of the true mean- 
ing of the rest. That obedience of faith mentioned 
by the apostle Paul as the great design of gospel 
preaching, } is as contrary to their condition of smecere 
obedience for salvation, as the law of faith is to the 
law of works.§ It is an obedience that consisteth in 
believing the report of the gospel; as the apostle ex- 
plaineth himself.|| They have not at all obeyed the 
gospel: for Hsaias saith, Lord, who hath believed our 
report? Taith is said to be imputed for righteousness, — 
not because it is a work of righteousness itself, but 
because we do by it renounce all confidence in any 
righteous works whatsoever, and trust on him that 
* Rom. iy, 5; iii, 27. Eph. ii, 8, 9. t Rom. vi, 16. 


t Rom, i, y. § Rom. ili, 27. || Rom, x, 16, 
f ican 


ape ale ’ j 


ey 


Direct. VI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 105 


justifieth the ungodly; as is clear by that very text 
which they usually pervert for their purpose.* They 
grossly pervert these words of Paul,t “ Who will 
render to every man according to his deeds ; to them 
who, by patient continuance in well-doing, seek for 
glory, and honour, and immortality; eternal life.” 

here they will have Paul to be declaring the terms 
of the gospel, when he is eyidently declaring the 
terms of the law, to prove, that both Jews and Gen- 
tiles are all under sin, and that no flesh can be justi- 
fied by the work of the law; as appeareth ve the 
tenor of his following discourse. They join evidently 
withthe Papists against the concurrent judgment of 
the best Protestant divines, in the interpretation of 
that text,§ “ Ye see then how that by works a man 
is justified, and not by faith only.” Where they will 
have James to deliver the doctrine of justification in 
more proper expressions than the apostle Paul, who 
teacheth justification by faith without works; though 
Paul treateth on this doctrine as his principal subject, 
and James doth only speak of it occasionally, as a 
motive to the practice of good works: whereby we 
may easily judge which of their expressions are to be 
taken for the most proper. Protestants have shewed 
sufficiently, that James speaketh not of a trie saving 


faith, but of such a dead faith as devils have; not of 


justification in a proper sense, but of the declaration 
and manifestation of it by its fruits, Besides, he 
speaks of justification by works, as commanded in the 
law given by Moses; as appearcth by his citing the 
commandments of the fepsll which our contrivers of 
the new divinity would have nothing to do with in 
their model of the doctrine of justification. Another 
text alleged by them is, “Blessed are they that do 


his commandments, that they may have right to the 


tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into 
v 


* Rom. iv, 5. + Rom. ii, 6, 7. } Rom. fii, 9, 10. 
§ Jamos fi, 24, || James ii, 8, 11. | Rev. xxii, 14. 


: J *; yy 


t 
° 


SO gh ee ae oy Py a 


tay 


106 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VI. 


the city.” But the Greek word which is here trans- 
lated right, is translated, power or privilege.* It 
signifieth here a rightful possession of the fruit of the 
tree of life, and not a mere title to it. So this text 
proveth no more than what the Protestants generally 
acknowledge, that good works are the way wherein 
we are to walk to the enjoyment and possession of the 
glory of Christ; though a title to Christ, and his 
glorious salvation, be freely given us without any 
procuring condition of works, They account also, 
that, when the happiness of heaven is called a reward, 
it must needs imply a procuring condition of works. 
But though it be called a reward, because it is given 
after the doing of good works, and because it recom- 
penseth good works, better than any wages on earth 
can recompense the labourer; yet it is a reward of 
grace, not of debt;{ it is no proper wages, but a free 
gift.§ “ For the wages of sin is death, but the gift 
of God is eternal life, through Jesus Christ our Lord.” 

Another thing asserted in the direction is, that 
those that endeavour to perform this sincere obedience, 
as the condition to procure a right and title to Christ 
and his salvation, shall never be able to perform sin- 
cerely any true obedience by all such endeavours. 
Though they labour earnestly, and pray fervently, 
fast frequently, and oblige themselves to holiness by 
many vows, and press themselves to the practice of it 
by the most forcible motives, taken from the infinite 
power, justice, and knowledge of God, the equity and 
goodness of his commands, the salvation of Christ, 
everlasting happiness and misery, or any other motive 
improved by the most affectionate meditation ; yet 
they shall never attain to the end which they aim at 
in such an erroneous way. They must restrain their 
corruptions, and bring themselves to many hypocriti- 
cal-slavish performances, whereby they may be es- 


* John i, 12. } Rey. xxii; 12. Matt. vy, 12, 
t Rom. iv, 23. § Rom. vi, 23, 


OF SANCTIFICATION, 


_ teemed among men, as eminent saints; but they shall 
a not be able to mortify one corruption, or to perform 
; one duty in such a holy manner as God approveth. 
_ Yet here I censure only an error, not the life of the 
_ persons that maintain it. I have heard that some 
: Sipe legally, and pray evangelically. I doubt not 
_ but the frame of their hearts and lives is rather ac- 
cording to their prayers than their sermons. Though 
_ Peter complied with Judaism in an outward act of 
_ profession, yet he lived himself like.a Christian.* I 
- affirm only, that no godly person did or could attain 
_ to his goodness in this erroneous way. And what a 
4 lamentable disappointment this to those that have at- 
_ tempted to alter the Protestant doctrine, and to per- 
vert and confound law and gospel, and have bred 
‘much contention in the church, that they might 
_ secure the practice of sincere obedience against anti- 
_ nomian errors, by making it the procuring condition 
of their salvation ; when, after all this ado, the remedy 
__ is found to be as bad as the disease, equally unservice- 
able and destructive to that great end for which they 
designed it: and that it hath an antinomian effect and 
operation, contrary to the power of godliness. 
: Much more might be said for the confutation of this 
novel doctrine: but, if this one thing be well proved, 
it may be sufficient to make the zealous contrivers of 
it to be ashamed of their craft, and angry with them- 
_ selves, and sorry that they have taken so much pains, 
and stretched their wits, to maintain such an unpro- 
fitable, unsanctifying opinion. It will be sufficient 
for the proof of it, if I shew that the practice of true 
holiness cannot possibly be attained unto, by seeking 
_to be saved by the works of the law; because I have 
already proved, that this, doctrine of salvation by 
sincere Decco, is according to the terms of the 
law, and not of the gospel. And hereby those also 
y see their error, that ascribe justification only to’ 


. ene ial: 6) +). ream, 


108 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VI. 


the gospel, and sanctification to the law. Yet, because 
those asserters of the condition of sincere obedience 
will hardly be persuaded by what hath been said that 
it is the way of the law of works ; I shall, for their 
more full conviction, sufficiently manifest that it is of 
no other nature and operation than any other doctrine 
that is proper to the law, and hath no better fruit : as 
I proceed to prove, by the following arguments, that 
holiness cannot he attained by seeking it by the law of 
works, that so it may appear not worthy to be called 
gospel doctrine. 

Ist, The way of salvation by the works of the law 
is contrary and destructive to those necessary means 
of a holy practice that have been laid down in the 
foregoing directions, and manifestly proved out of the 
holy Scriptures. I have made it appear that a hearty 
propensity to a holy practice cannot be attained with- 
out some good persuasion of our reconciliation with 
God by justification, and of our everlasting happiness, 
and of sufficient strength both to will and to perform 
our duty ; and that these, and all other endowments 
necessary to the same end, are to be had only in Christ 
by union and fellowship with him; and that Christ 
himself, with all his fulness, is united to us by faith ; 
which is not a condition to procure a right or title to 
Christ, but an instrument whereby we receive him 
actually into our hearts, by trusting on him for all 
salvation freely promised to us in the gospel. All 
these means of a holy practice are things wherein 
our spiritual life and happiness doth consist; so 
that, if we have them, everlasting life is begun 
in us already; and, because they are the neces- 
sary means of a holy practice, therefore, the be- 
ginning of everlasting life in us must not be placed 
after such a practice, as the fruit and consequent of 
it, but must go before it as the cause before the effect. 

-Now, the terms of the law are directly contrary to _ 
this method. They place the practice of holiness be- 
fore life, and make it to be the means and procuring 


ves — 


Direct. VI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 109 


cause of life, as Moses deseribeth them,* The man 
that doth these things shall live by them. By these 
terms, you are first to do the holy duties commanded 
before you have interest in the life promised, or any 
right to lay hold of it as yours by faith. And you 
must practise holiness without the fore-mentioned 
means, or else you can never attain to them. Thus 
the true means are turned out of their office, and in- 
stead of being causes, they are made to be effects and 
fruits of a sty practice. And it will-be in vain ever 
to expect such effects and fruits; for holiness itself, 
with all its effects, must needs be destroyed, when its 
necessary causes are taken away. Therefore the apostle 
Paul testifieth, that the way of salvation by the works 
of the law maketh faith void, and the promises of 
none effect; and frustrateth the grace of God, as if 
Christ died in vain; and maketh Christ to be of no 
rofit, and of none effect to us, as those that are fallen 
om grace.t Let us now examine the modern doc- 
trine of salvation by the condition of sincere obedience 
to all the commands of Christ, and we shall quickly 
find it to be a chip of the same block with the former 
legal way of salvation, in the same manner destructive 
to the means of holiness, and to holiness itself. It re- 
quireth of us the performance of sincere obedience, 
before we have the means necessary to produce it, by 
making it antecedent to our justification, and persua- 
sion of eternal happiness, and our actual enjoyment 
of union and fellowship with Christ, and of that new 
nature which is to be hea only in him by faith. It 
destroyeth the nature of that saving faith whereby 
_ we actually receive and enjoy Christ and all his bene- 
fits, and knocketh off our hands from laying hold of 
Christ and his salvation, by telling us still, as Christ 
told the legal worker after all his labour, that yet we 
lack xtihine that it is presumption to take him 
as our own, until we have performed the condition’ 
UR Ne > : 
"Rom, x, 5, f Rom. iv, 14, Gal. i, 21, andy, 2,4. t Mariex, 21. 
4 aie } K \\ 


7 eu: 
Aiea dy Wn yo 0 a7 


ek Aa : _ ek 


~ 


110 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VI, 


for our right and title to him ; which is another kind 
of saving faith, otherwise called sincere obedience. 
By this devised conditional faith, Satan keepeth many 
poor souls at bay, poring upon their own hearts for 
many years together, to find whether they have per- 
formed the condition, and whether they have, as yet, 
any right to Christ for their salvation, not daring to . 
venture to. take him as their own. It is a strong 
partition-wall that will certainly hinder the soul from 
coming to Christ, until it be thrown down by the 
knowledge of salvation by grace, without any procur- 
ing condition of works. And though it be accounted 
but as the payment of a pepper-corn fora great estate, 
yet it is enough to break the ablest man in the world, 
because it debarreth him from laying hold of the ef- 
fectual means of holiness, whereby that pepper-corn 
may be obtained. 

2ndly, Those that seelx salvation by the works of 
the law, do therein act according to their natural 
state, They live and walk according to the flesh, or 
old man; not according to the new state, by Christ 
living in them. I doubt not but several of them that 
live under the light of the gospel, are partakers of a 
new state in Christ, and do walk holily in it ; but the 
best in this world have in them flesh as well as spirit, 
and may act according to either state in some mea- 
sure: and in this matter they do act only according 
to their carnal natural state. 

When the believing Galations were seduced to a 
legal way of salvation, the apostle Paul chargeth it 
upon them as their folly, that having begun in the 
spirit, they would now be made perfect in the flesh.* 
And he resembleth those that desire to be under the 
Jaw, to Abraham’s son, born of Hagar the bond- 
woman, to shew, that such do walk as those that are 
born after the flesh, not after the Spirit.f The law 
was first given to Adam in his pure natural state, to — 


* Gal. ili, 3. + Gal. i , 22, 23, 29, 


4 ; ; 


* 


“Direct. VI. OF SANCTIFICATION, 111 


prescribe terms for his continuance in the happiness 
which he then enjoyed. And ever since that time, 
the flesh, or natural man, is married to the law, and 
the law hath dominion over a man as long as he liv- 
eth, i. e. until he be dead to his fleshly state by the 
body of Christ, and married to him that is raised from 
the dead.* Weare not at all under the lawas a cove- 
nant of works, according to our new state in Christ ; 
as the apostle testifieth, + “ Ye are not under the law, 
but under grace :” and, } “ If ye be led by the Spirit, 
ye are not under the law.” From hence we may 
firmly conclide, that none can possibly attain to true 
godliness by acting according to legal terms ; because 
have fully proved already, that it is impossible to 
be godly while we are in the flesh, or in a natural 
state, and that, as far as we act according to it, we 
can do nothing but sin, The law is weak through the 
flesh, that it cannot bring us to fuifil its own righte- 
ousness.§ It is married to a cross piece of flesh, that 
is enmity to it, and can never be subject to it.|| It 
sueth the natural man for an old debt of obedience, 
that he is utterly unable to pay since the fall: and 
the success is accordingly ; it gets nothing. Neither 
do those take a better course, that would bring them- 
selves to holiness, by making sincere obedience to 
Christ’s commands the condition of their salvation. 
Their way is the same for substance with that of the 
Galatians before-mentioned, who would be made per- 
fect in the flesh, not by perfect obedience, but sincere, 
as hath been shewed before. Their endeavours to pro- 
cure an interest in Christ by their sincere obedience, 
do testify against themselves, that they do not act as 
people that are in Christ, but rather as people that 
‘Judge themselves to be without an interest in Christ, 
and to be yet to seek for it. And sincere obedience is 
_as impossible to be attained unto, as perfect obedience, 
if we act according to our dead natural state. 


> *Rom, vii,1,4.  +Rom.vi, 14. Gal. 5,18. § Rom viii, 3,4 


|| Rom. viii, 7. \\ 


112 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VI. 


3rdly, As the law bereaveth of all strengthening 
means, that are to be had by faith in Christ, and 
findeth us without strength in our natural state ; so, 
of itself, it affordeth us no strength to fulfil its own 
commands: “If there had been a law given that 
could have given life, yerily righteousness should have 
been by the law.’’* It doth not so much as promise us 
life, until we have performed the obedience required 
by it: “ The man that doth these things shall live by 
them.”+ It is well called a voice of words,} because 
its high and big words are not, accompanied with any 
enlivening power. And the doctrine of life and sal- 
vation by sincere obedience is not beiter-natured, or 
more bountiful to us: for it exacteth of us the per- 
formance of the condition, before it alloweth us any 
life or salvation by Christ. Can any man rationally 
expect strength to obey sincerely, by following a 
doctrine that doth not so much as promise it? The 
true gospel is.of a more benign nature; for it pro- 
miseth that “God will pour out of his Spirit upon all” 
flesh ;”§ and will put his laws in our hearts ;|| and 
will cause us to walk in his statutes, that we shall 
keep his judgments and do them.” This word of 
God’s grace, that requireth not holiness of us as a 
condition, but promiseth it to us as a free gift, must 
needs be the only doctrine “that is able to build us up, 
and to give us an inheritance among all them that are 
sanctified.”** Seeing it pleased God to bring us to 
holiness by believing a doctrine, we may reasonably 
expect that God should work upon us suitably to the 
nature of the doctrine which we believe; that he 
should give by a giving doctrine, and exact by an 
exacting doctrine. 

4thly, The way of procuring life and happiness by 
the condition of perfect or sincere works, is not a ra- 
tional method for the recovery of fallen man : though 


* Gal. iii, 21. + Rom. x,5.' Heb. xii, 19, § Acts ii, 17. 
|| Heb. viii, 10. Ezek, xxxvi, 27. ** Acts %x, 732. 


Direct. VI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 113 


“it were good for the preserving of life before the fall, 
for it preseribeth the immediate practice of holiness 
to recover a man dead in sin; as if one would say to 
the sick of the palsy, “Arise and walk, and then 
thou shalt be whole, and able to walk.” We some- 
times say ocstingly to a child that is fallen on the 
_ ground, “ Come hither and I will help thee up:’’ but 
“if we should say so to one that is cast on his hed by a 
dead palsy, we should be “guilty of mocking and 
cruelly insulting the afflicted. Those that are hum- 
bled, and made sensible of their original sin and na- 
tural deadness, know that they must first live by the 
Spirit, before they can act holily.* They will en- 
quire, How shall we have strength to perform the 
duty required?’ If you answer, that they must trust 
in God and Christ, to help them; they may readily 
ply, they have no sure ground to trust on God or 
Christ for any saving grace according to this doctrine, 
‘before they have performed this condition, at least in 
a sincere resolution of obedience, and that they are as 
unable to bring their hearts to such a resolution, as a 
dead man is to raise himself out of the grave. Take 
another instance: The method of the doctrine of 
. works is, You must love God first, and then, on that 
condition, he will love you again; whereas, on the 
contrary, we love God, because he loved us first. 
And if God suspend his love to us upon any condition, 
our love to him will not be absolute, but suspended 
upon the same condition, and no way contrary to an 
actual hating of him. 
5thly, The law is so far from healing our sinful 
corruption, that it proveth rather an occasion of sin- 
ful motions and actings in those that seek salvation 
by the works of it. This cometh to pass by reason of 
the power of our natural corruption, which is stirred 
‘El! and rageth the more when the holy and just law 
ie of God is set in opposition against it; so that the 
hs APS TS 


Pelee Gal, y, 23, 


* 


+1 Jobni y 19. 


114 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, VI. 


fault is not in the law, but in our own hearts, Those 
that find not this by their own experience, should 
believe the apostle Paul, who teacheth it plainly, and 
that from his own experience,* He affirmeth, that 
there are motions of sin by the law, in a fleshly state ; 
and that sin, taking occasion by the commandment, 
Thou shalt not covet, wrought in him all manner of 
concupiscence, deceived him, slew him, became ex- 
ceeding sinful; and that without the law, he was 
alive, and sin dead: but, when the commandment 
came, sin revived, and he died. He sheweth the 
cause of this irreconcileable enmity and contrariety 
between his sinful nature and the law: “ The law is 
spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin.” Take no- 
tice here, from the reason given by the apostle, that 
the doctrine of salvation by sincere obedience, will 
have the same event. Corrupt nature is contrary to 
sincere obedience, as well as perfect ; and if we make 
it the condition of our salvation, sin will take the 
same occasion by it, to become exceeding sinful in its 
motions and actings. The success of legal doctrine 
upon the natural man is according to the proverb, 
** Reprove not a scorner lest he hate thee.”+ Rebuk- 
ing a madman is the way to enrage him; and 
such is the natural man in spiritual things, since he 
fell out of his right mind by the sin of Adam. We 
find by manifold experience, that though men be 
generally addicted to the principle of salvation by 
works, yet multitudes of them hate all strict preach- 
ers and professors of true holiness, because they are a 
torment to their consciences. They endeayour to 
shelter themselves in ignorance of the law ; account- 
ing, that the less they know, the less they shall an- 
swer for ; and, therefore, they would not have right 
things prophesied unto them.{ And they have pre- 
vailed generally in the world, to darken the natural 
knowledge of moral duties, in such a degree, that 


* Rom. vii, 5,14.  { Prov.ix 8. Isa, xxx, 10, 


me) 


Direct. VI. OF SANCTIFICATION, 115 


there is a necessity of learning them by Divine reve- 
lation out of the Scriptures. We may find how prone 
legal writers are to corrupt the sense of the law, that 
they may leave starting holes for their corruptions, 
by the corrupt glosses of the scribes and_pharisees, 
from which Christ did vindicate it.* And, as far as 
I have observed, none more endeavour to discover the 
purity and perfection of the law, than. those that 
seek holiness and salvation without any legal condi- 
tion, by the mere free grace of God in Christ. The 
doctrine of salvation by sincere obedience, is but_a 
mincing the perfection required in the law: and yet 
how is this doctrine minced again and again, until it 
is become so small, that the substance of all true 
obedience is lost? A willingness to be saved accord- 
ing to Christ’s terms, or a consent that Christ should 
be our Lord, or a resolution to obey his command- 
ments, (which is a little more than ignorant men 
trust on, when they say they hope God will save 
them because they have a good meaning, though they 
live in the neglect of all religion) without any farther 
practice of holiness, shall pass with many for enough 
of sincere obedience, both to enter them into a state 
of salvation, and to continue them in it; so that they 
shall never be accounted breakers of the gospel cove- 
nant, while so much can be pretended. The most 


that is made necessary for salvation, shall be only, to 


endeavour to do what we can to obey Christ’s com- 
mands; though all that the most can do, is nothing 
that is truly good. Those that have a little more 
zeal for their salvation by works, are prone to spend 
it in superstitious observances, because they suit bet- 


ter with their carnal nature) than the spiritual com- 


mands of God and Christ. I doubt not but this hath 
been one occasion of the prevailing of Heathenish, 


_ Jewish, and Popish superstitions in the world. We 


\ 


find, by experience, how Popery fell in several 


= 


* Matt. v. \\ 


CF a eee bs het 


116 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VI. 


nations in late years, when the great pillar of it, the 
doctrine of justification by works, was overthrown b 

the Protestant doctrine of justification by faith alone. 
Tf these legal zealots be forced, by strong conviction, 
to endeavour the practice of spiritual duties for the 
quieting of their guilty consciences, they may be 
brought to strive and labour earnestly, and even to 
macerate their bodies with fasting, that they may kill 
their lusts; but still their lusts are alive, and as strong 
as ever they were; and to shew forth their enmity 
against the law of God, by inward fretting, repining, 
and grudging at it, as a grievous task-master, though 
a slavish fear restrain their gross outward actings. 
And, if once these zealots be enlightened with the 
knowledge of the spiritual nature of the law, to dis- 
cern that God rejecteth all their slavish service, and 
will not own it for sincere obedience; then they fall 
into despair of their salvation, because they see they 
have failed in their highest attempts to perform the 
condition; and then-they can easily discover them- 
selves, that their hearts swell in anger and manifest 
hatred against the law, yea, and against God and 
Christ, for prescribing such hard conditions of salva- 
tion,which they cannot keep, and yet must expect to 
be damned eternally for breaking them. This filleth 
them with blasphemous thoughts against God and 
Christ, and they can hardly refrain from blasphem- 
ing with their tongues. And when they are brought 
to this horrible condition, if God doth not in merey 
discover to them the way of salvation by free grace 
through faith alone, they will endeavour, if they can, 
to scar their consciences past feeling of sin, and fully 
to abandon all religion, which hath proved such an 
insufferable torment to them: or, if they cannot sear 
their consciences, some of them are easily prevailed 
with by satan, rather to murder themselves, than to 
live longer in the hatred of God, the spirit of blas- 
phemy, and continual horror of conscience. This is 
the pestilent effect of legal doctrine upon a carnal 


: Direct. wa ” OF SANCTIPICATION, 117 


heart, that doth but rouse up and terribly enrage the 
sleeping lion, our sinful corruption, instead of killing 
it: as is too evident by the sad experience of many 
that haye endeavoured with all their might to prac- 
tise it: and by the Scripture, that sheweth a suffi- 
cient cause why it cannot be otherwise. Therefore 
the doctrine of salvation by sincere obedience, that 
was inyented against antinomianism, may well be 
ranked among the worst antinomian errors. For my 
part, I hate it with perfeet hatred, and account it 
mine enemy, as I have found it to be. And I have 
found, by some good experience, the truth of the les- 
son taught by the apostle, that the way to be freed 
from the mastery and dominion of sin, is, not to be 
under the law, but under grace.* 
6thly, The way of salvation by works was blasted 
by the curse denounced against the first Adam’s sin ; 
so that now it cannot work life in us, or holiness, but 
only death: for the law, which requireth both sin- 
cere and perfect obedience to God in all things, was 
made known to Adam at his first creation, as the 
means of continuing the happy life that was then be- 
stowed upon him ; and it would have been effectual 
for this end, if he had not transgressed in the forbid- 
den fruit; But, when he had once brought himself 
and his posterity under the terrible sentence, Thou 
shalt surely die,t all that knowledge of God, or his 
law, that before wrought for continuance of life, was 
turned by that cursing sentence the contrary way, to 
work for his death, even for the death of his soul in 
sin, as well as for the death of his body; and. there- 
_ fore it quickly moved him to hide himself from God 
_ asanenemy. It was as if God should say, “ All the 
. light and knowledge that thou hast, shall not be able 
to continue thy life, or restore it; but it shall rather 
to thy death.”’ Therefore, while we continue 
ur natural state, under the first Adam’s guilt and 
s & ey 


118 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VI. 


curse, the knowledge of the law, yea and all such 
knowledge of God and his attributes as natural men 
may attain to, must needs be in like manner accursed 
to us. And, seeing man did not use his natural 
knowledge and wisdom aright, God is resolved to re- 
venge the abuse of it, by giving us salvation in a way 
contrary to it, that seemeth foolishness to the natural 
man; and wholly to abolish the way of living by any 
of our works, or by any wisdom or knowledge that 
the natural man can attain unto. “ For it is written, 
I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring 
to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Hath 
not God made foolish the wisdom of this world?! 
For, after that in the wisdom of God, the world b 
wisdom knew not God, it pleased God, by the fool- 
ishness of preaching, to save them that believe.’”’* 
Hence we may conclude, that no truth known by 
the light of nature, can be an effectual principle or 
motive to work holiness in us; and gospel principles 
and motives are but abused, when they are applied 
to a legal way of salvation. 

Tthly, The end which God aimed at in giving the 
law to Moses, was not, that any should ever attain to 
holiness or salvation by the condition of perfect or 
sincere obedience to it; though, if there had been any 
such way of salvation at that time, it must have con- 
sisted in the performance of that law, which was then 
given to the church to be a rule of life, as well as a 
covenant. ‘There was another covenant made before 
that time with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, a cove- 
nant of grace, promising all blessings freely through 
Christ, the promised seed, by which only they were 
to be saved. And the covenant of the law was added, 
that they might see their sinfulness and subjection to 
death and wrath, and the impossibility of attaining to 
life or holiness by their works, and be forced to trust 
on the free promise only for all their salvation; and 


* 1 Cor. i, 19, 20, 21. 


a 1. 
. VII. or sancrivication. 119 
_ that sin might be restrained by the spirit of bondage, 
until the coming of that promised seed Jesus Christ, 
_ and the more plentiful pouring out of the sanctifying 
«Spirit by him. This the apostle Paul sheweth 
largely.* None of the Israelites under the old Tes- 
_ tament were ever sayed by the Sinai ccvenant ; 
_ neither did any of them ever attain to holiness by the 
terms of it. Some of them did indeed perform the 
- commandments of it sincerely, though imperfectly ; 
but those were first justified; and made partakers of 
life and holiness, by virtue of that better covenant 
made with Abraham, Jsaac, and Jacob, which was 
_ the same in substance with the new covenant or tes- 
_ tament established by the blood of Christ. Had it 
- not been for that better covenant, the Sinai covenant * 
_ would haye proved to them an occasion of no happi- 
_ ness, but only of sin, despair, and destruction. Of 
itself it was only a killing letter, the ministration of 
_ death and condemnation; and therefore it is now 
_ abolished.t We have cause to praise God, for de- 
 livering his church by the blood of Christ from this 
yoke of bondage: and we have cause to abhor the 
device of those that would lay upon us a more griey- 
ous and terrible yoke, by turning our very new cove- 
nant into a covenant of sincere works, and leaving us 
_ no such better covenant, as the Israelites had under 
_ their yoke, to relieve us in our extremity. 


DIRECTION VII. 
Weare not to imagine that our hearts and lives must be changed from 
4 _ sin to holiness in any measure, before we may safely venture to 
trust on Christ for the sure enjoyment of himself, and his salvation. 


$ EXPLICATION. 


Eare naturally so prone to ground our salvation 
upon our own works, that, if we cannot make them. 


be 


rocuring conditions and causes of our salvation by 


Rom. y, 20,21; x,3,4. $2 Cor. ili, 6, 8, 9, 11. 
a \\ 


: <. y Es i oie 
120 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, VII. 


Christ, yet we shall endeavour at least to make them 
necessary preparatives to fit us for receiving Christ 
and his salvation by faith. And men are easily per- 
suaded that this is not at all contrary to salvation by 
free grace, because all that is hereby ascribed to our 
works, or good qualifications, is only, that they put 
us in a fit posture to receive a free gift. If we were 
to go to a prince for a free gift, good manners and due 
reverence would teach us to trim ourselves first, and 
to change our slovenly clothes, as Joseph did when 
he came out of the dungeon into the presence of 
Pharoah. It seemeth to be an impudent slighting 
and contemning the justice and holimess of God and 
Christ, and an insufferable affront and indignity 
offered to the Divine Majesty, when any dare pre- 
sume to approach his presence in the nasty pickle of 
his sins, covered all over with putrifying sores, not at 
all closed, bound up, or cleansed; much more when 
they endeavour to receive the most holy One into 
wich an abominable stinking kennel, as a sinner’s 
heart is before it be at all reformed. The parable 
concerning the man that was to be bound hand and 
foot, and cast into outer darkness, for coming to the 
royal wedding without a wedding-garment, seemeth 
to be intended as a warning against all such presump- 
tion.”* Many that behold with terror the abomi- 
nable filth of their own hearts, are kept off from com- 
ing immediately to Christ, by such imaginations, 
which satan strongly maintaineth and increaseth in 
them by his suggestions; so that they can by no 
means be persuaded out of them, until God teacheth 
them inwardly by the powerful illumination of his 
Spirit. They delay the saving act of faith, because 
they think they are not yet duly prepared and quali- 
fied for it. On the same account, many weak be- 
lievers delay coming to the Lord’s supper for many 
years together, even as long as they liye in this 


* Matt, xxii, 11, 13. 


Direct, VII. OF SANCTIFICATION. 121 
world; and would be as likely to delay their baptism, 
if they had not been baptized in infancy. Against 
all such imaginations, I shall propose the following 
considerations, 

First, This error is pernicious to the practice of 
holiness, and to our whole salvation, in the same 
manner with that treated of in the foregoing direc- 
tion, and may be confuted by the same arguments 
which are there produced. Whether’ holiness be 
made a procuring condition of our salvation through 
Christ, or only a condition necessary to qualify us for 
the reception of Christ, we are equally brought under 
those legal terms of doing first the duties required in 
the law, that so we may live. Therefore we are 
equally bereaved of the assistance of those means of 
holiness mentioned in the foregoing directions, as 
union and fellowship with Christ, and the enjoy- 
ments of all his sanctifying endowments by faith, 
which should go before the practice of holiness, that 
they may enable us for it; and we are equally left to 
labour in yain for holiness, while we are in our cursed 
natural state, whereby our natural corruption will be 
rather exasperated than mortified; so that we shall 


never be duly prepared for the reception of Christ as. 


long as we live in the world. Thus, while we endea- 
_ your to prepare our way to Christ by holy qualifica- 
_ tions, we do rather fill it with stumbling blocks and 
_ deep pits, whereby our souls are hindered from ever 
attaining to the salvation of Christ. 
Secondly, Any the least change of our hearts and 
_ lives from sin to holiness, before our receiving of 
Christ and his salvation by faith, is not at all neces- 
sary, according to the terms of the) gospel, nor re- 
quired in the word of God.) Christ would have the 
yilest sinners come to him for salvation immediately, 
hhout delaying the time to prepare themselves for 
- When the wicked jailor enquired, What he 
st do to be saved? Paul directed him forthwith 
on Christ, with a promise, that in so doing 
ee hae. ) 


{e \ 


122 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VIl. . 


he should be saved; and straightway he and all his 
were baptized.* Paul doth not tell him, that he 
must reform his heart and life first, though he was in 
a very nasty pickle at that time, having but a little 
before fastened Paul and Silas in the stocks, and 
newly attempted a horrid wilful self-murder, Those 
three thousand Jews that were converted by Peter’s 
preaching, and added the same day to the church by 
baptism,+ seemed to have as much need of some con- 
siderable time to prepare themselves for xeceivin 

Christ as others, because they had but lately pollute 

themselves with the murder of Christ himself. 
Christ commands his servants to go out quickly into 
the streets and lanes of the city, and to bring in to his 
feast the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the 
blind; yea to go out into the high ways and to com- 
pel them to come in, without allowing them to tarry 
until they had cleansed their sores, and shifted off 
their filthy rags and swarms of lice, Christ would 
have us to believe on him that justifieth the ungodly ; 
and therefore he doth not require us to be godly be- 
fore we believe.§ He came as a physician for the 
sick, and doth not expect that they should recover 
their health in the least degree before they come to 
him.|| ‘The vilest sinners are fitly prepared and 
qualified for this design; which is to shew forth the 
exceeding riches of grace, pardoning our sins, and 
saving us freely. For this end the law of Moses 
entered, that the offence might abound; that so 
where sin abounded, grace might much more abound.[ 
He loved us in our most loathsome sinful pollution, 
so as to die for us: and much more will he love us in 
it, so as to receive us when we come to him for the 
purchased salvation, He hath given full satisfaction 
to the justice of God for sinners, that'they might 
have all righteousness, and holiness, and all salvation, 


* Acts xvi, 30, 33. + Acts ii, 41. t ver. 23. *§ Rom. iv, 5. 
|) Matt. ix, 12. { Eph. ii, 5, 7. [ Rom. v, 20. 


t. VIL. OF SANCTIFICATION. 123 


_ only by fellowship with him through faith. There- 
fore it is no affront to Christ, or slighting or contemn- 
_ ing the justice and holiness of God, to come to Christ, 
while we are polluted sinners; but rather it is an 
affronting and contemning the saving grace, merit, and 
fulness of Christ, if we endeavour to make ourselves 
_ righteous and holy before we receive Christ himself, 
and all righteousness and holiness in him by faith. 
Christ loathed not to touch a leper, and condescended 
to wash the feet of his diseiples, and-did not expect 
that they should be washed and perfumed before- 
hand, as some great ones of the world are said to do, 
when they wash the feet of poor men, in imitation of 
Christ. 

Thirdly, Those that receive Christ with an un- 
feigned faith, shall never want a wedding-garment 
to adorn them in the sight of God. Faith itself is 
very precious in the sight of God, and most holy.* 
God loveth it, because it giveth the glory of our 
salvation only to the free grace of God in Christ, 
and renounceth all dependance upon any conditions 
that we can perform to procure a right to Christ, or 
to make ourselves acceptable to him. It containeth 
in it a hearty love to Christ as a Saviour, and a 
hungering and thirsting appetite for his salvation ; 
and it isthe mouth, whereby the soul feedeth hungri- 
~ ly upon him. What wedding-garment can simners 
bring with them more delightful than this to their 

bountiful God, whose great design isto manifest the 
abundant riches of his glorious grace and bounty in 
_ this wedding feast? The Father himself loveth them, 

because they love Christ, and believe that he came 
ut from God.t But yet we see that the excellency 
2 faith lieth in this, that it accounteth not itself, nor 
any other works of ours, a sufficient ornament to 
ake us acceptable in the sight of God. It will not 
be our wedding-garment itself, but it buyeth of Christ 

ay a 


, Jude yerse20. ft Rom.iv,16.  t John xvi, 27.- 


ee ae ae ee 


Te, 


124 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VII. 


white raiment that we might be clothed, and that the 
shame of our nakedness may not appear.* ‘Though 
it loveth and desireth the free gift of holiness; yet it 
abandons all thoughts of practising holiness immedi- 
ately, before we come to Christ fora holy nature. It 
putteth on Christ himself, and in him all things that 
pertain to life and godliness. Thus every true be- 
liever is clothed with the sun,t even with the Son of 
righteousness, the Lord Jesus; who is pleased to be 
himself both our wedding-garment and feast, and all 
our spiritual and eternal happiness. 

For the more full satisfaction and consolation of 
those distressed souls that lie under the terrible ap- 
prehensions of their own sinfulness and the wrath of 
God, and dare not venture to trust stedfastly on 
Christ for their salvation until they can find in them- 
selves some change from sin to holiness; I shall men- 
tion particularly several of those things that such 
would find in themselves: and I shall shew, that, if 
some of them be not partly comprehended in faith it- 
self, they are fruits and consequences of faith ; and 
therefore they cannot be rationally expected before 
we trust on Christ for our salvation. 

First, They think it necessary to repent before they 
believe on Christ for their salvation, because repen- 
tance is absolutely necessary to salvation.{ “ Except 
ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish;” and Christ 
placeth the duty of repentance before faith.§ “ Re- 
pent, and believe the gospel.” But we are to know, 
that Christ requireth repentance first as the end to 
be aimed at, and faith in the next place, as the only 
means of attaining to it: and though the end be the 
first in intention, yet the means are first in practice 
and execution, though both be absolutely necessary 
to salvation. For what is repentance, but a hearty 
turning from sin to God and his service? and what 
way is there to turn to God, but through Christ, 


* Rey. ili, 18. + Rev. xii, 1. t Luke xiii, 3. § Mark i, 15. 


ase) 


AVAT, OF SANCTIFICATION. 125 


i “ who is the way, the truth, and the life; without 
whom none cometh to the Father ?”* and what way 
is there of coming to Christ but by faith Therefore, 
if we would turn to God in the right way, we must 
first come to Christ by faith ; and faith must go before 
repentance, as the great instrument afforded us by the 
grace of God for the effectual performance of it. Re- 
pentance is indeed a duty which sinners owe naturally 
to God; but the great question is, How shall sinners 
be able to perform it? This question is resolved only 
by the gospel of Christ; repent and believe. The 
way to repent is, to begin with believing. Therefore 
the great doctrine of John, in his baptism of repen- 
tance, was, That they should believe on him that 
should come after him; that is, on Christ Jesus.t 
Secondly, Regeneration is also necessary to salva- 
tion, and therefore many would find it wrought in 
themselves before they trust on Christ for their sal- 
yation. But consider what regeneration is. It is a 
new begetting or creating us in Christ,§ in whom we 
are partakers of a Divine nature, far different from 
that which we received from the first Adam. Now, 
_ faith is the uniting grace whereby Christ dwelleth in 
us and we in him, as hath been shewed; and there- 
fore it is the first grace wrought in our regeneration, 
_ and the means of all the rest: when you truly be- 
lieve, you are regenerated, and not till then. Those 
that receive Christ by believing, and those only, are 
_ the sons of God, “which are born, not of blood, nor 
of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of 
_ 1God,’’|| 
‘Thirdly, They account it necessary to receive Christ 
as Lord and Lawgiver, by a sincere resignation of 
themselves to his government, and a resolution to 
bey his law, before they receive him as their Saviour. 
is is one principal lesson of the new divinity, and 


+ Acts xix, 4, | " } John iii, 3. 
iy, 15, Eph. ii, 10. {| John i, 12, 13, 
: Tie \\ 


126 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VIT. 


such a receiving Christ as Lord, is made to be the 
great act of saving faith ; without which, such faith 
as I have described, whereby we trust on Christ for 
salvation is reckoned no better than gross presump- 
tion. They teach, that Christ will not bestow his 
salvation on those that do not first yield their subjec- 
tion to his kingly authority ; but he calleth them his 
enemies, because they would not that he should reign 
over them, and requireth that they be brought and 
slain before him.* And I own it is a certain truth, 
that Christ will save none but those that are brought 
to resign themselves sincerely to the obedience of his 
royal authority and laws. But yet we must observe, 
that they are not brought to this holy resignation, or 
to any sincere purpose and resolution of obedience, 
before they receive his salvation, but rather by re- 
ceiving it. Men that were never thoroughly sensi- 
ble of their natural death in sin, do easily bring 
themselves to resolve upon universal obedience to 
God, when they are on their death-beds, or in any 
iminent danger, or when they would prepare them- 
selves for the Lord’s supper, that so they may make 
their peace with God, and trust securely on Christ 
for his salvation. But all resolutions of that kind 
are vain and hypocritical, sooner broken than made. 
Those that know the plague of their own hearts, do 
find that their mind is enmity unto the law of God 
and Christ, and cannot be subject unto it,f and that 
they can as soon remove a mountain, as give up them- 
selves sincerely to obedience, before they trust on 
Christ for his salvation, and for the gift of a new 
heart, whereby they may be enabled both to will and 
to do any thing that isacceptable to God. Weshould 
have been sufficiently obliged to all obedient purpo- 
ses, resolutions, and resignations, if Christ had never 
come into the world to save us ; but he knew that we 
could perform nothing holily except he made us first 


* Luke, xix, 27. + Rom. viii, 7. 


OF SANCTIFICATION. 127 


| “rman of salvation, and that we shall never obey 
_ him as a Lawgiver, until we receive him asa Saviour, 
He isa open Lord ; trust on him first to saye you 
from the guilt and power of sin and dominion of 
satan, and to give you a new spiritual disposition ; 
then, and not till then, the love of Christ will con- 
strain you to resign yourself heartily to live to him 
that died for you,* and you will be able to say with 
an unfeigned resolution, “O Lord, truly I am thy 
servant; I am thy servant, and the.son of thine hand- 
maid: thou hast loosed my bonds.” + 
Pourthly, It seemeth to them evident, that some 
good works are necessary, before we can trust on 
Christ safely for the forgiveness of sins, because our 
Saviour teaches us, that, if ye forgive not men their 
trespasses, neither will our heavenly Father forgive 
our trespasses ; and directeth us to pray, “ Forgive us 
our debts, as we forgive our debtors.”{ Restitution 
also was to be made of things wrongfully gotten from 
others, before the sacramental atonement was made 
by the trespass offering.§ I answer, this is sufficient 
to prove, that forgiving others, and restitution accord- 
ing to our ability, or at least a sincere desire and pur- 
pose so to do, are very closely joined with the forgive- 
ness of our sins, and are very necessary to fit us for 
_ prayer, and for sacramental applications of pardoning 
' grace to ourselves. <A lively faith cannot be without 
_ these fruits, and therefore we cannot pray, or partake 
of sacraments, in faith, without them; but yet if we 
_ strive to do either of these before we trust on Christ 
_ for our pardon and salvation, we shall do them slavish- 
_ dy and hypocritically, not in any holy acceptable 
manner. Dae forgiving others will not be accom- 
ped with any hearty loye to them as to ourselves 
for the sake of God; and our restitution will be but 
a forced act, like Pharaoh’s letting the children of 
1 go; or like Judas restoring the thirty pieces of 


Psa, cxvi, 16. + Matt. vi, 12,15. § Lev. vi, 5, 7. 


Sain 


128 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, VIT. 


silver, being compelled thereunto by terror of spirit ; 
and, when the terror that forced us is removed, we 
shall be as ready to recall our forgiveness and to 
wrong others again, as Pharaoh was to bring the 
Israelites again into bondage after he had let them 
go.* Ifyou would forgive others heartily, so as to 
love them again, you must first, by faith in Christ 
apprehend the love and mercy of God towards your- 
selves; and then you will be able, according to the 
apostle’s instructions, to be kind, tender-hearted, for- 
giving one another, even as God for Christ’s sake hath 
forgiven you.t The readiness of Zaccheus to make 
restitution, followed upon a discovery of Christ’s love 
to him; and his joyful receiving Christ into his house, 
was fruit whereby he did evidence the truth of that 
faith that was already wrought in his heart. 

5thly, I shall reckon up together several other 
qualifications that distressed souls would find in them- 
selves, that they may be duly prepared to trust on 
Christ for their salvation: and, when they have la- 
boured anxiously a long time, and cannot get them, 
at last they lie down in sorrowful dependance, not 
daring to apply the consolations of the grace of God 
in Christ to their wounded consciences. Let per- 
plexed souls mark the particulars, and observe 
whether the condition of their own souls be reached 
inany of them. “O thou afflicted, tossed with tem- 
pests, and not comforted,’ what good qualifications 
are they that thou wouldst have, that thou mayest 
be encouraged to lay hold on Christ for salvation! 
It is likely thou wilt answer, in the bitterness of thy 
soul, “ O let me have first some love to God and god- 
liness in mine heart, and freedom from mine hate- 
ful heart-risings against him and his service! Let 
me have some good thoughts of God, his justice, 
mercy, and holiness, that I may be able to justify 
him, though he damn me, and that I may not be filled 


* Exod. xiv, 5. ¥ Eph iy, 32. 


Direct, VIT. ov sancriricatron. 129 
: with murmurings and hellish blasphemies in my 
_ mind against him. Let the raging of my lusts be 
_ abated, and the stinking kennel of my wicked heart 
_ alittle cleansed. Let me have some holy reverential 

fear of God, and not a panic tormenting horror. 
_ I would be more affected with the wrath of God, and 
not be of a slighting heedless spirit. I would be 
more humbled for sin, loathe it, and be ashamed of 
it, and be sorry for it with a godly sorrow, not merel 
because of the punishment, but because it grievet 
and vexeth the Holy Spirit of God. I would be able 
to make a willing and ingenuous confession of sin, 
and to pour out my soul to the Lord in lively affec- 
_ tionate prayer for forgiveness, and to praise and glo- 
rify him heartily ; and not be like a lifeless stone in 
the duty of prayer, as Iam.” Are these the things 
thou desirest, O poor distressed soul? The best reply 
I can make for thy speedy comfort, is, to inform thee, 
that the things are good, but thy desires are not well- 
timed. It is unreasonable for thee to expect these 
holy qualifications, whilst thou art in thy natural 
state, under the guilt of sin, and the apprehension of 
the wrath of God, before thou hast received the ~ 
atonement, and the new spiritual life that is by 
Christ through faith in his name. ‘Thou dost but 

_ eXasperate thy corruptions, and harden thy heart, and 
_ make thy wounds to stink the more, because of thy 

foolishness. Such good qualifications are included in 
_ the nature of faith, and for the most part they follow 

after it; so that they cannot possibly be obtained 
before thou trusteth in Christ for thy salvation; as I 
shall shew concerning them particularly in their 
order. A love to the salvation of God, and to the 
free gift of holiness, is included in the nature of faith ; 
so that it cannot be hearty withoutit. Act faith first, 
and the apprehension of God’s love to thy soul will 
eetly allure and constrain thee to love God and his 
ervice universally: “We love him because he first 


, 


130 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VII. 


loved us.”* We cannot be before-hand with God in 
love: and we must perceive his love, to make us love 
him: for, if we look upon him as a God contrary to 
us, that hateth us, and will damn us, our own innate 
self-love will breed hatred and heart-risings against 
him ; in spite of our hearts. That love, which is the 
end of the law, must flow from faith unfeigned.t 
And if hatred work in thee more than love, how canst 
thou expect good thoughts of God or any ‘other than 
blaspheming, or at least mur muring thoughts of him, 

in thiscondition? Ill-will never speaketh or thinketh 
well. The first right holy thoughts thou canst have 
of God, are thoughts of his grace and mercy to thy 
soul in Christ, which are included in the grace of 
faith. Get these thou ghts first by believing in Christ, 
and they will breed in 1 thee love to God, and all good 
thoughts of him, and free thee from blasphemous and 
murmuring thoughts by degrees; for love thinks no 
evil. © ‘Then wilt thou be able to account God just 
and merciful, if he had damned thee, and extended 
_ his grace to others ; and thou wilt be able to think 
well of his holiness, and of his decrees, which man 

cannot endure to hear of. The way to get rid of thy 
raging lusts is by faith, that purifieth the heart, and 
worketh thy love.§ The soul must be brought to 
take pleasure in God and Christ by faith, or else it 
will lust after fleshly and worldly pleasures. And 
the more you strive against lusts without faith, the 
more they are stirred up; though you prevail so far 
as to restrain the fulfilling of them. Beg a holy 
fear of God, with fear of coming short of the promised 
rest through unbelief. || Such 1 a fear is an ingredient 
of faith, and it will breed in us a reverential, yea, a 
child-like fear of God and his goodness.“ We must 
haye grace jwhereby we may serve God with rey- 
erence, &c.’ It isin the margin, we must have or 


*} John iv, 19. $1 Em. isi $1 Cor. xiii, 5. 


§ Acts xv,9. Gal.v,6. || Heb. iv,1. J Heb. xii, 28. Hos. iii,5. 


: ‘ 
Direct. VII. OF SANCTIFICATION. 


hold fast grace. And there is no other way to hold 
fast grace but by faith; and this will quickly calm all 
panic and tormenting horror, And, if you would be 
reed from carelessness, and slighting the wrath of 
God, your way is, first by believing, to avoid despair- 
ing, for people grow careless by despairing; and, for 
their own quiet, they will endeavour to slight evils 
which they have no hope to prevent; according to 
the proverb, “ Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow 
we die.* True humiliation for sin is either a part or 
fruit of faith ; for on our believing, “ we shall remem- 
ber our own evil ways, and doings that were not 
good, and shall loathe ourselves in our own sight for 
all abominations.”+ We shall also then willingly 
renounce our own righteousness, and account it but 
dung, that we may win Christ by faith.{ But beg- 
gars will make the most of all their nasty rags, until 
they be furnished with better clothes; and cripples 
will not cast away their crutches, until they have a 
better support to lean on. Godly sorrow for sin is 
wrought in us by believing the pardoning grace of 
God; as it is found by experience, that a pardon 
from a prince will sometimes sooner draw tears 
from a stubborn malefactor, than the fear of a hal- 
ter will. Thus the sinful woman was brought to 
_ wash Christ’s feet with her tears.§ Weare not 
_ like to be sorry for grieving God with our sins, 
while we look upon him as an enemy that will case 
himself well enough of his burden, and right him- 
self upon us by our everlasting destruction. The 
_ belief of God’s pardoning and accepting grace is a 
necessary means to bring us to an ingennous confes- 
_ sion of sins. The people freely confessed their sins 
_ ‘when they were baptized of John in Jordan for the 
remission of sins.|| ‘The confession of despairers is 
reed, like the extorted confession and cryings out 
of malefactors upon therack. A pardon sooner open- 


a ¥ 


+ Eze. xxxvi, 31. t Phil. iif, 7, 8. 
7, 38, {| Mark 4,4, 5. 


fi se J i} ee 
132 THE GOSPEL MysTERY Direct. VIII. 


eth the mouth to an ingenuous confession, than Con- 
fess and be hanged, or Confess and be damned. 
Therefore, if you would freely confess your sins, he- 
lieve first, that “God is faithful and just to forgive 
your sins,” through Christ.* And, if you would 
pray to God, or praise him, with lively affections, 
you must first believe that God will hear you, and 
give you what is best for you for Christ’s sake ;t+ 
otherwise your praying will be only from the teeth 
outward; for how shall you call on him in whom you 
have not believed? You must come first to Christ 
the altar, by faith, that by him, you may offer the 
sacrifice of praise to God continually.§ 

Finally, 'To pass from particulars to the general as- 
sertion laid down in the direction ; if you ask, What 
shall we do that we may work the works of God ; or 
get any saving qualifications? I must direct you first 
to faith, as the work of works, and the great saying 
preparatory to all good qualifications, by answering 
in our Saviour’s words, “ This is the work of God, 
that ye believe on him whom he hath sent.”’|| 


DIRECTION VIII. \ 
Be sure to seek for holiness of heart and life only in its due order 
where God hath placed it, after union with Christ, justification, 
and the gift of the Holy Ghost ; and, in that order, seek it earnestly 
by faith, as a very necessary part of your salvation. 


EXPLICATION. 


I norr the reader will observe warily in all these 
directions, that the holiness aimed at as the great end 
in the whole discourse, consisteth not in the grace or 
act of faith required peculiarly by the gospel ; which 
though it bea saving gift of Christ, yet is here consid- 


* 1 John i, 9. t John xvi, 23, 24. ft Rom. x, 14, 
§ Heb. xiii, 10, 15. | John vi, 28, 29. 


Direct. VIII. OF SANCTIFICATION. 133 


ered rather as a means precedent to the reception of 

Christ, and all his salvation, than a part of his salva- 

tion received. But the holiness aimed at, consisteth 

in conformity to the whole moral law, to which we 

are naturally obliged, if there had never been any 

gospel, or any such duty as believing in Christ for 
vation. 

Now, in this direction, three things are contained 
that are very necessary to guide us to the attainment 
of this great end, and therefore worthy of our serious 
consideration. 

First, It is a matter of high concern, to be ac- 
quainted with the due place and order wherein God 
hath settled this holy practice in the mystery of our 

salvation, anda great point of Christian wisdom to 
seek it only in that order. We know that God isthe 
God of order, and that his infinite wisdom hath ap- 
peared in appointing the order of his creatures, which 
we are Teauon to observe, for attainment of our ends 
in worldly things ; so also in spiritual things: “‘ God 
lath made an everlasting covenant, ordered in all 
things and sure.”’* The benefits of it have an order- 
ly dependance upon each other, as links of the same 
golden chain, though several of them and a title to 
them all, are given to us at one and the same time. 
And I think enough hath been said already, to shew 
in what order God brings us to the practice of the 
moral law. He maketh us first to be in Christ b 
faith as branches in the vine, that we may bring forth 
much fruit.t He first purgeth our consciences from 
dead works by justification, that we may serve the 
living God.{ He maketh us first to live in the 
‘Spirit, and then to walk in the Spirit.§ This is the 
order prescribed in the gospel, which is the power 
of God. unto salvation ; hows the law prescribeth a 
\ quite contrary method, that we should first perform 
its commands, that.so we may be justified and live ; 


i 


‘\ *2 Sam. xxiii,5. +John xv, 4,5. {Heb. ix, 14. § Gal. v, 25. 
ee 


se ae 


134 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VIIT, 


and thereby it proveth a killing letter to us. Now, 
mark well the great advantages you have for the at- 
tainment of holiness, by seeking it in a right gospel 
order. You will have the advantage of the love of 
God manifested towards you, in forgiving your sins, 
receiving you into favour, and giving you the Spirit 
of adoption, and the hope of his glory, freely, through 
Christ, to persuade and constrain you, by sweet al- 
lurements, to love God again, who hath so dearly 
loved you, and to love others for his sake, and to give 
up yourselves to the obedience of all his commands 
out of a hearty love to him ; you will also enjoy the 


help of the Spirit of God, to incline you powerfully 


7 


unto obedience, and to strengthen you for the perfor- 
mance of it against all your corruptions, and the 
temptations of satan: so that you will have both wind 
and tide to forward your voyage in the practice of 
holiness, Contrariwise, if you rush upon the imme- 
diate performance of the law, without taking Christ's 
righteousness and his Spirit in the way to it, you will 
find both wind and tide against you : your guilty con- 
sciences, and corrupt dead natures, will certainly de- 
feat and frustrate all your enterprizes and attempts to 
love God, and serve him in love, and you will but stir 
up sinful lust, instead of stirring up yourselves to 
true obedience: or, at best, you will but attain to 
some slavish and hypocritical performances, Oh! that 
people would be persuaded to consider the due place 
of holiness in the mystery of salvation, and to seek it 
only there, where they have all the advantage of gos- 
pel grace to find it. Many miscarry in their zealous 
enterprizes for godliness ; and, after they haye spent. 
mueh labour in vain, God maketh a breach upon 
them, even to their everlasting destruction, as he did 
upon Uzzah, to a temporal destruction; because they 
sought him not after a due order.* i 

Secondly, We are to look upon holiness as a very 


* 1] Chron, xifi, 10. 


7 

vt, VIII. OF SANCTIFICATION. 135 
necessary part of that salvation that is received by 
faith in Christ. Some are so drenched in a covenant 
of works, that they accuse us for making good works 
needless to salvation, if we will not acknowledge them 
\ to be necessary, either as conditions to procure an in- 
terest in Christ, or as preparatives to fit us for the re- 
ceiving him by faith. And others, when they are 
_ taught by the Scriptures that we are saved by faith, 
_ through faith without works, do begin to disregard 
_ all obedience to the law, as not at all necessary to 
_ -salyation, and do account themselves obliged to it only 
in point of gratitude: if it be wholly neglected, they 
doubt not but free grace will save them harmless, 
Yea, some are given up to such strong antinomian de- 
lusions, that they account it a part of the liberty from 

_ the bondage of the law purchased by the blood of 
_ Christ, to make no conscience of breaking the law in 
their conversation. One cause of these errors, that 
are so contrary one to the other, is, that many are 

_ prone to imagine nothing else to be meant by salva- 
tion, but to be delivered from hell, and to enjoy hea- 
venly happiness and glory : hence they conclude, that, 
eit works be a means of glorification, and pre- 
cedent to it, they must also be a precedent means 

of our whole salvation ; and that, if they be nota 
necessary means of our whole salvation, they are not 
at all necessary to glorification. But though salva- 
tion be often taken in Scripture, by ila of eminency, 
for its perfection in the state of heayenly glory ; yet, 
: according to its full and proper signification, we are 
to understand by it all that freedom from the evil of 
; our natural corrupt state, and all those holy and 
happy enjoyments that we receive from Christ our 
viour, either in this world by faith, or in the world 
-eome by glorification.) Thus, justification, the gift 
he Spirit to dwell in us, the privileges of adoption, 
parts of our salvation which we partake of in this 
. Thus also, the conformity of our hearts to the 
God, and the fruits of righteousness with which 


NE oo oe 


136 THE GOSPEL Mystery Direct. VIII. 


we are filled by Jesus Christ in this life, are a neces- 
sary part of our salvation. God saveth us from our 
sinful uncleanness here, by the washing of 1egenera- 
tion and renewing of the Holy Ghost, as well as from 
hell hereafter.* Christ. was called Jesus, 7. e. a Sa- 
viour, because he saved his people from their sins.t 
Therefore it is part of our salracan to deliver us from 
our sins ; which is begun, in this life, by justification 
and sanctification, and perfected by glorification, in 
the life to come. Can we rationally doubt, whether 
it be any proper part of our salvation by Christ, to 
be quickened, to live to God, when we were by na- 
ture dead in trespasses and sins; and to have the 
image of God in holiness and righteousness restored 
to us, which we lost by the fall ; and to be freed from 
a vile dishonourable slavery to satan, and our own 
lusts, and made the servants of God ; and to be hon- 
oured so highly, as to walk by the Spirit, and bring 
forth the fruits of the Spirit? and what is all this but 
holiness in heart and life: conclude we then that ho- 
liness in this life is absolutely necessary to salvation, 
not only as a means to the end, but by a nobler kind 
of necessity, as part of the end itself. Though we are 
not saved by good works, as procuring causes; yet 
we are saved to good works, as fruits and effects of 
saving grace, which God hath prepared that we should 
walk in them.{ It is indeed one part of our salvation 
to be delivered from the bondage of the covenant of 
works; but the end of this is, not that we may have 
liberty to sin, (which is the worst of slavery) but that 
we may fulfil the royal law of liberty, and that we may 
serve in newness of Spirit, and not in the oldness of the 
letter.”’§ Yea, holiness in this life is such a part of our 
salvation, as is a necessary means to make us meet to 
be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in heaven-. 
ly light and glory: without holiness we can never see 


* Ezek, xxxvi, 29, ‘Tit. ili, 5. ~ + Matt. i, 21. 
t Eph. ii, 10. § Gal. vy, 13. Rom, vii, 6. 


. 


rect. VIII. 


OF SANCTIFICATION. 137 


God,* and are as unfit for the glorious presence, as 
swine for the presence-chamber of an earthly prince. 
I confess, some may be converted, when they are so 
near the point of death, that they may have little 
time to practice holiness in this world: but the grace 
of the Spirit is active like fire,t and as soon as it is 
given, it will immediately produce good inward 
workings of love to God, and Christ, and his people ; 
which will be sufficient to manifest the righteous 
judgment of God in saving them at the great day, 
when he shall judge every man_aceording to his 
work: though some possibly may not have so much 
time to discover their inward grace in any outward 
good words, as the thief upon the cross. f 
The third and last thing to be noted in this direc- 
tion is, That holiness of heart and life is to be sought 
for earnestly by faith, as a very necessary part of our 
salvation. Great multitudes of ignorant people, that 
___ live under’the gospel, harden their hearts in sin, and ~ 
ruin their souls for ever, by trusting on Christ for 
such an imaginary salvation, as consisteth not at all 
in holiness, but only in forgiveness of sin, and deliver- 
ance from everlasting torments. They would be free 
from the punishments due to sin, but they love their ~ 
lusts so well, that they hate holiness, and would not 
be saved from the service of sin. The way to oppose 
this pernicious delusion is, not to deny, as some do, 
that trusting on Christ for salvation, is a saving act 
of faith: but rather to shew, that none do or can 
trust on Christ for true salvation, except they trust 
on him for holiness: neither do they heartily desire 
_ true salvation, if they do not desire to be made holy 
and righteous in their hearts and lives, If ever God 
and Christ give you salvation, holiness will be one 
part of it; # Christ wash you not from the filth of 
your sins, you have no part with him.§ What a 


. oe aS 


xii, 14. + Matt.ili, 11, {Luke xxii, 40, 43. 
§ John xiii, 8. 
M 20 


138 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. VIII. 


strange kind of salvation do they desire, that care not 
for holiness! They would be saved, and yet be alto- 
gether dead in sin, aliens from the life of God, bereft 
of the image of God, deformed by the image of satan, 
his slaves and vassals to their own filthy lusts, utterly 
unmeet for the enjoyment of God in glory. Such a 
salvation as that, was never purchased by the blood 
of Christ; and those that seek it, abuse the grace of 
God in Christ, and turn it into lasciviousness. They 
would be saved by Christ, and yet out of Christ, in a 
fleshly state; whereas God doth free none from con- 
demnation but those that are in Christ, that walk not 
after the flesh, but after the Spirit: or elsethey 
would divide Christ, and take a part of his salvation, 
and leave out the rest; but Christ is not divided.* 
They would have their sins forgiven, not that they 
may walk with God in love in time to come, but that 
they may practise their enmity against him, without 
any fear of punishment. But let them not be de- 
ceived, God is not mocked. They understand not 
what true salvation is, neither were they ever yet 


thoroughly sensible of their lost estate, and of the: 


great evil of sin: and that which they trust on Christ 
for, is but an imagination of their own brains; and 
therefore their trusting is gross presumption. True 
gospel faith maketh us come to Christ-with a thirsty 
appetite, that we may drink of living water, even of 
his sanctifying Spirit ;+ and ery out earnestly to save 
us, not only from hell, but from sin saying, “Teach 
us to do thy will; thy Spirit is good;{ Turn thou 
me, and I shall be turned ;§ “Create in me a clean 
heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me.”’|| 
_ This is the way whereby the doctrine of salvation by 
grace doth necessitate us to holiness of life, by con- 


straining us to seek for it by faith in Christ, asasub- - 


*1Cor.i, 13. © + John vii, 37, 38. } Psalm cxliii, 10. 
§ Jer, xxxi, 18. || Psalm li, 10. : 


r ee ae “~ . Cage Dea) 
De " Z 


Ar FS OF SANCTIFICATION. 139 


stantial part of that salvation which is freely given to 


us through Christ. 


DIRECTION IX. 


We must first receive the comforts of the gospel, that we may b able 
to perform sincerely the duties of the law. 


EXPLICATION. 


Srycr man fell from obedience to God, which he was 
enabled and engaged to perform by the comforts of 
his first happy state in paradise, God might have 
justly palace ever to give man again any comforts 
beforehand to encourage him to his duty; that the 
way to holiness being hedged up against him with 
the thorns and briars of fear, grief, and despair, he 
might never be able to escape the sentence of death 
which was denounced against his first transgression. 
This justice of God is manifest in the method of the 
legal covenant, wherein God promiseth us no life, 
comfort, or happiness, until we have thoroughly per- - 
formed his law; and may be seen in the mount Sinai 
omeeren, explicated* throughout. And we are 
y nature so strongly addicted to this legal method 


of salvation, that it is a hard matter to dissuade those 


that live under the light of the gospel, from placing 
the duties of the law before the comforts of the gos- 
pel. If they cannot make salvation itself, yet they 
will be sure to make all the comforts of it, to depend 
upon their own works, They think it as unreason- 


able to expect comfort before duty, as wages before 
_ work, or the fruits of the earth before the husband- 
man’s labours.t They account the only effectual 


-way to secure the obedience we owe to the law of 
God is, to ground all our comforts on the performance 
it; and that the contrary doctrine strengthens the 


* Lev. &Xxvi. < +2 Tim. ii, 6: 
\\ 


| 


ey ae ed 


140 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. IX. 


hands of the wicked, by prophesying peace to them, 
where there is no peace ;* and openeth the flood-gates 
to all licentiousness. Therefore some preachers will 
advise men not to be solicitous and hasty of getting 
comfort, but that they should rather exercise them- 
selves diligently in the performance of their duty ; 
and they tell them, that, in so doing, their condition 
will be safe and cepts at last; though they never 
enjoy any comfort of their salvation, as long as they 
live in this world. 

That you may rightly understand what I have as- 
serted in the direction against such vulgar errors, 
take notice, that I do not make the only place of 
gospel comfort to be before the duties of the law. I 
acknowledge, that God comforteth his people on 
every side, both before and after the performance of 
their duty, and that the greatest consolations do fol- 
low after duty ; yet some comforts God giveth to his 
people before-hand, as adyance-money, to furnish 
them for his service, though most of the pay comes 
in afterwards. Neither do I hereby speak any peace 
to those that continue in their sinful natural state : 
for the comforts I speak of, cannot be received with- 
out rejecting those false confidences whereby natural 
men harden themselves in sin; nor without that 
effectual working of the Spirit, whereby we are made 
good trees, that we may bring forth good fruit. 
Though they are given before the sincere practice of 
the law; yet they are not given to us in our corrupt 
sinful nature, but in and with the new holy nature ; 
which immediately produceth a holy practice, though 
it must necessarily go before, as the cause before the 
effect : and they are no other than comforts of those _ 
spiritual benefits by which our new estate and na- 
ture is produced, and of which it is constituted and - 
made up; as the comforts of redemption, justifica- 
tion, adoption, the gift of the Spirit, and the like. 


* Tizek. xiii, 16, 22. t Psalm Ixxi, 21. — 


Direct. IX. OF SANCTIFICATION. 141 


“ 


Neither do I intend here any transport or ravishment ~ 
of joy and delight, but only such manner of comfort 
as rationally strengthens, in some measure, against 
the oppression of fear, grief, and despair, which we 
are liable unto, by reason of our natural sinfulness 
and misery. 

This explanation of the sense of my assertion, is 
sufficient to answer some common objections against 
it. And I hope the truth of it will be fully evi- 
denced by. the following arguments. 

First, This truth is a clear consectary from those 
rinciples of holiness that have been already con- 
rmed, I have shewn, that we must have a good 
ersuasion of our reconciliation with God, and of our 
appiness in heaven, and of our sufficient strength 

both to will and to do that which is acceptable to 
God through Jesus Christ, that we may be rationally 
inclined and bent to the practice of holiness ; and that 
these endowments must be had, by receiving Christ 
himself, with his Spirit, and all his fulness, by trust- 
ing on him for all his salvation, as he is freely pro- 
mised to us in the gospel, and that by this faith we 
do as really receive Christ, as our food by eating and 
drinking. Now let right reason judge: can we be 
persuaded of the love of God, of our everlasting hap- 
piness, and our strength to serve God, and yet be 
without any comforts! Can the glad tidings of the 
gospel of peace be believed, and Christ and his Spirit 
actually received into the heart, without any relief 
to the soul from oppressing fear, grief, despair? Can 
the salvation of Christ be comfortless, or the bread 
and water of life without any sweet relish, to. those 
that feed on him with hungering and thirsting appe- 
tites? God will not give such benefits as these to 
those that do not desire and esteem them above the 
world, And certainly the very receiving of them 
will be comfortable to such, except they receive them 
lindfold ; which they cannot do, when the very 
nd bestowing them openeth the eyes of a 


142 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. 1X. 


sinner, and turns him from darkness to light, where- 
by he doth, at least, in some measure, see and per- 
ceive spiritually the things that concern his present 
and future peace, and reap some encouraging and 
strengthening comfort thereby to the practice of 
holiness. 

Secondly, Peace, joy, hope, are recommended to us 
in Scripture, as the spring of other holy duties ; and 
fear and oppressing grief forbidden, as hinderances to 
true religion: “ The peace of God keepeth our hearts 
and minds through Christ Jesus.* Be ye not sorry, 
for the joy of the Lord is your strength,t Every man 
that hath this hope in him, purifieth himself, even as 
he is pure.{ Fear hath torment: he that feareth, is 
not made perfect in love.”’§ This is the reason why 
the apostle doubleth his exhortation, to rejoice in the 
Lord always, as a duty of exceeding weight and ne- 
cessity.|| What are such duties but comfort itself? 
And can we think that these duties are necessary to 
our continuance in a holy practice, and yet not to the 
beginning of it, where the work is most difficult, and 
encouragement most needful? Therefore, we must 
make haste, in the first place, to get a comfortable 
frame of spirit, if we would make haste, and not 
delay to keep God’s holy commandments. 

Thirdly, The usual method of gospel doctrine, as it 
is delivered to us in the holy Scriptures, is, first to 
comfort our hearts, and thereby to establish us in 
every good word and work.4 And it appears how. 
clearly this method is adjusted in several epistles 
written by the apostles, wherein they first acquaint 
the churches with the rich grace of God towards them 
in Christ, and the spiritual blessings which they are 
made partakers of, for their strong consolation ; and 
then they exhort them to. a holy conversation an- 
swerable to such privileges. And it is not only the 


* Phil. iv, 7. + Neh. viii, 10. $1 John iii, 3. 
§1 John iv. 18, || Phit. tv; 4, {| 2 Thess. ii, 17, 


Pt / 
TF a 


ev Ls 
Sew 


Direct. IX. OF SANCTIFICATION, 143 


method of whole epistles, but of — particular ex- 
hortations to duty, wherein the comfortable benefits 
of the grace of God in Christ are made use of as argu- 
ments and motives to stir up the saints to a holy 
ee? which comfortable benefits must first be 
elieved, and the comfort of them applied to our own 
souls, or else they will not be forcible to engage us to 
the practice for which they are intended. To give 
you a few instances of a multitude that might be 
alleged, we are exhorted to practise holy duties, be- 
cause we are dead to sin-and alive to-God through 
Jesus Christ our Lord ;* and because sin shall not 
_have dominion over us: for we are not under the law 
but under grace,t because we are not in the flesh but 
in the Spirit; and God will quicken our mortal 
bodies by his Spirit dwelling in us ;{ because our 
bodies are the members of Christ, and the temples of 
the Holy Ghost ;§ because God hath made him to be 
sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made 
the righteousness of God in him ;|| and hath pro- 
mised that he will dwell in us, and walk in us, and 
be to us a father, aud we shall be to him sons and 

' daughters ;4 because God hath forgiven us for Christ’s 
sake, and accounted us his dear children ; and Christ 
hath loved us and given himself for us, and we that 
were some time darkness, are now light in the Lord,** 
because we are risen with Christ ; and when Christ, 
who is our life, shall appear, then shall we also appear 
with him in glory,tt because God hath said, 1 will 
never leave thee, nor forsake thee,}{ because of the 
many promises made to us.§§ Search the Scriptures ; 
and you may with delight see that this is the vein that j 

- runneth through gospel exhortation; and you may . 
find the like vein of comfort running through the 

 prophetical exhortations in the Old Testament. 


* Rom. vi, 11. + Rom. vi, 14. t Rom. viii, 9 11. 

. vi, 15,19. || 2 Cor. v, 21. 4 2 Cor. vi, 16, 18, and vii, 1. 
B2,andv,1,2,8. tt Col.iii, 1,4. tt Heb. xfii, 5. 

. §§ 2 Cor, vil, 1. 


St Se ee 


144 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY. Direct. IX, 


Some may chject, “That the apostles used this 
method in their writings to saints who had practised 
holiness already, that so they might continue and 
_ increase therein.” But to that I may easily reply: 
Tf it be a method needful for grown saints, much 
more for beginners, that find the work of obedience 
most difficult, and have most need of strong consola- 
tion. And I hope to shew how we may be able to 
lay hold of these consolations by faith in the very first 
beginning of a holy life. Besides, the gospel propos- 
eth peace and comfort freely to those that are not yet 
brought to holiness, that, if they have hearts to re- 
ceive it, they may be converted from sin to righteous- 
ness. When the apostles entered into a house, they 
were first to say, Peace be to this house.* At their 
very first preaching to sinners, they acquainted them 
with the glad tidings of salvation by Christ, for 
every one that would receive it as a free gift by 
faith. They assured them, if they would but trust 
heartily on Christ for all his salvation, they should 
have it, although they were at present the chief of 
sinners ; which was comfort sufficient for all that duly 
esteem spiritual comfort, hungering and thirsting after 
it. And this is a-method agreeable to the design of 
the gospel, which is to-advante the riches of the grace 
of God in all our spiritual enjoyments. God will give 
us his consolations before our good works, as well! as 
after them, that we may know that he giveth us 
everlasting consolation and good hope through grace, 
and not through the procurement of our works. 

Fourthly, The nature of the duties of the law re- 

uireth a comfortable state of the soul for the per- 
formance of them. I have before proved sufficiently, 
that they require a persuasion of our reconciliation 
with God, and of our future happiness, and strength 
whereby we may be able to walk in holy obedience: 


* Luke x, 5. t Acts iii, 26,—xiii, 26, 32, and xvi, 30, 31. 
$2 Thess. ii,-16. , P 


=) hs home 


Direct. IX. OF SANCTIFICATION, 145 


Joshua must be strong and very courageous, that he 
might observe to do according to the law that Moses 
the servant of the Lord commanded him.* I shall 
instance briefty in the comforts, without which seve- 
ral great duties cannot be sincerely performed. Can 
we love God and delight in him above all, while we 
look upon him as our everlasting enemy ; and appre- 
hend no love and mercy in him towards us, that may 
render him a suitable good for us, and lovely in our 
eyes? What doleful melody will the heart make in 
the duty of praise, if we account that all those per- 
fections for which we praise him, will rather aggra- 
vate our misery than make us happy? what a heart- 
less work will it be to pray to him, and to offer up 
ourselves to his service, if we have no comfortable 
hope that he will accept us? Is it possible for us to 
free ourselves from carking cares, by casting our care 
upon the Lord, if we do not apprehend he careth for 
us? Can we be patient in affliction with cheerfulness, 
and under persecutions, except we have peace with 
God, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God!+ what 
reason can persuade us to submit willingly, according 
to our duty, to the stroke of present death, if God be 
pleased to lay it upon us, when we have no comforts 
to relieve us against the horrible fear of intolerable 
torments in hell for ever? 

If we should be called to suffer martyrdom for the 


_ Protestant religion, as our ancestors in this nation 
have done, we should find it necessary to abandon the 


xe 


\YE 


= 
bi 


D 
- 


late upstart notions that have been bred in a time of 
ease, and to embrace the comfortable doctrine of for- 
mer Protestants, which, through the grace of God, 
made so many courageous and joyful martyrs. 
Fifthly, The state of those that are to be brought 


om sin to godliness, requires necessarily that, after 


they he convinced of the vanity of their former false 
confidences, and of their deadness in original sin, and 


t Rom. y, I, 2, 3. 
N i 


\\ 


‘ a ae Yt 
oe Seer mS 


146 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY. Direct. 1X. 


subjection to the wrath of God, they should have a 
supply of new gospel comforts afforded, to encourage 
their fainting souls to holy practices. How little do 
many physicians of souls consider the condition of 
their unconverted patients, that are altogether with- 
out spiritual life and strength, and are, or must be 
convinced thereof? He that prescribeth bodily exer- 
cise to a man lying bed-ridden under a dead palsy, 
before any effectual means be used to strengthen him, 
deserveth the naine of a merciless insulting tormentor, 
rather than a wise and tender-hearted physician. 
How unreasonable is it to prescribe the immediate 

ractice of love to God, and universal obedience to 
him out of love, as the means of cure, for those that 
see nothing but wrath and enmity in God towards 
them in their present condition? hat is it but to 
require a man to work without strength, promising 
him that he shall have strength when his work is 
done? For comfort or joy is so called, because it 
strengtheneth.* True it is, that the law, which is 
the ministration of condemnation, obligeth them to 
obedience : but our merciful God expecteth no sin- 
cere performance of his law from such impotent 
miserable wretches, in order to their salvation by 
Christ, until he hath first delivered them, in some 
measure, from those discomforts, slavish fears, and 
despondencies that hold them captive under the law 
of sin and death. We may require a strong healthy 
person first to work, and then to expect meat, drink, 
and wages; but a fainting famished person must first 
have food, or a reviving cordial to strengthen his 
heart, before he can work. 

Sixthly, Both Seripture and experience shew, that 
this is the method whereby God bringeth his people 
from sin to holiness. Though some of them are 
brought under terrors for a while, that sin may be 
the more embittered, and the salvation of Christ ren- _ 


* Neh. viii, 10. 


(jay | 


Direct. LX. OF SANCTIFICATION. 147 


dered more precious and acceptable to them; yet 
such are again delivered from their terrors, by the 
comfort of God’s salvation, that they may he fitted 
for holiness. And generally a holy life beginneth 
with comfort, and is maintained by it. God gave to 
Adam, at his first creation, the comfort of his love 
and favour, and the happiness of paradise, to encou- 
rage him to obedience ; and when he had lost those 
comforts by the fall, he was no longer able to obey, 
until he was restored by new comfort of the promised 
seed, Christ, the second Adam, set God always be- 
fore his face, and he knew that, because God was at 
his right hand, he should not be moved, therefore his 
heart was glad, and his glory rejoiced.* This made 
him willing to bear his agony and bloody sweat, and 
to he obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. 
God drew the Israelites to obedience with the cords 
ofa man, with the bands of love, by taking off the yoke 
on their jaws, and laying meat before them.t David 
telleth us, for our instruction, how he was brought to 
a holy conversation. “ ‘Thy loving-kindness is hefore 
mine eyes; and I have walked in thy truth.” Lord, 
I have hoped for thy salvation, and done thy com- 
menener et We have several examples in the New 
Testament of the joy that sinners had in the first re- 
ceiving of Christ.|| And when the gospel first came 
_ to the Thessalonians, “they received the word in 
much affliction, with joy in the Holy Ghost.”q 
“When the Gentiles heard the word of God, the 
were glad: and as many as were ordained to eterna 
life believed.** The apostle Paul was constrained by 
the love of Christ to give up himself to live to Christ.++ 
_ I dare appeal to the experience of any that obey God 
out of hearty love. Let them examine themselves, 
and consider whether they\are brought to give up 


_ * Psa. xvi, 8,9. t Hos. xi,4. Psa. xxvi,3.  § Psa. cxix, 166° 
it || Acts ii, 41. J 1 Thess. i, 4, 5, 6. ** Acts xiil, 48, 
\ tt 2 Cor. v, 14, 15, : 


Vi 


148 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. 1X. 


themselves to serve God in love, without comfortable 
apprehensions of the love of God towards them? I 
dare say there are no such prodigies in the new birth. 

Seventhly, What comfortless religion do those make 
that allow people no comfort beforehand, to strengthen 
them for holy performances which are very cross, 
displeasing, and grievous to their natural inclinations, 
as the plucking out of a right eye, cutting off a right 
hand ; but would have them first to do such things 
with love and delight, under all their present fears, 
despondencies, and corrupt inclinations, and to er 
that by doing the work thoroughly and sincerely, 
they shall at last attain to a more favourable state? 
All true spiritual comfort, as well as salyation, is in- 
deed quite banished out of the world, if it be suspended 
upon the condition of our good works, which hath 
already appeared to be the condition of the law, that 
worketh no comfort, but wrath.* This makes the 
way of godliness odious to many. They think they 
shall never enjoy a pleasant hour in this world ifthey 
walk in them, and they had rather comfort themselves 
with sinful pleasures, than have no comfort at all. 
Others labour a while in such a comfortless religion, 
with inward fretting and repining at the bondage of 
it, and at last grow weary, and throw off all religion, 
because they know none better. They that bind such 
heavy burdens upon ‘men, and grievous to be borne, 
will plead that they are not to be blamed, because 
they do but preach the gospel of God and Christ ; 
whereas, indeed, they preach a gospel of man’s own 
forging, contrary to the nature of the true gospel of 
Christ, which is glad tidings of great joy to all people.t 
An uncomfortable gospel cannot proceed from God 
the Father, who is the Father of mercies and the God 
of all comfort ;} nor from Christ, who is the consola- 
tion.of Israel ;§ nor from the Spirit, who is the Com- 
forter.|| God mecteth him that rejoiceth and worketh 


* Rom. iv, 14,15. + Lukeii, 10. $2 Cor.i,3. § Luke ii, 25. _. 
|| John xvi, 16, 17. 


Direct. X. OF SANCTIFICATION. 149 


righteousness.* He will be served with gladness and 
singing ; as he shewed by the type of variety of 
music, and great numbers of musicians in the temple. 
Christ ks to us by his gospel, that his joy may 
abide in us, and that our joy may be full.t No sor- 
row is approved of by God, except godly sorrow, 
which can never be in us without some comfort of the 
love of God towards us. They that are offended at 
the uncomfortableness of a religious life, never yet 
knew the true way of religion, else they would find, 
that the ways of wisdom are.sways of pleasantness, and 
all her paths peace. 


DIRECTION X. 


That we may be prepared by the comforts of the gospel, to perform 
sincerely the duties of the law, we must get some assurance of our 
salvation, in that very faith whereby Christ himself is received into 
our hearts: therefore we must endeavour to believe on Christ con- 
fidently, persuading and assuring ourselves in the act of believing, 
that God freely giveth to us an interest in Christ and his salvation, 
according to his gracious promise. 


EXPLICATION. 


Ir is evident, that those comforts of the gospel that 
are necessary to a holy practice, cannot be truly re- 
ceived without some assurance of our interest in 
Christ and his salvation; for some of these comforts 
consist in a good \persuasion of our reconciliation with 
_ God, and of our future heavenly happiness, and of 
_ strength both to will and to do that which is accep- 
_ table to God through Christ; as hath been before 
_ shewed, Hence it will clearly follow, that this as- 
surance is very necessary to enable us for the practice 
f holiness, as those comforts that must go before the’ 
s of the law in order of nature, as the cause goeth 


150 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X. 


before the effect, though not in any distance of time. 
My present work is to shew what this assurance is, 
that is so necessary unto holiness, and which I have 
here asserted we must act, in that very faith whereby 
we receive Christ himself into our hearts, even in jus- 
tifying saving faith. This doctrine seemeth strange 
to many that profess themselves Protestants in late 
days ; whereas it was formerly highly owned by the 
chief Protestants whom God made use of to restore 
the purity of the gospel, and to maintain it against 
the Papists for many years. ‘They commonly taught, 
That faith wags a persuasion or confidence of our own 
salvation in Christ ; and that we must be sure to apply 
Christ and his salvation to ourselves in believing. And 
this doctrine was one of the great engines whereby 
they prevailed to overthrow the Popiah superstition, 
whereof doubtfulness of salvation is one of the prin- 
cipal pillars, But many of the successors of: those 
Protestants have deserted them, and left their writ- 
ings to be shamefully insulted by the Papists. And 
this innovation hath been of longer standing amongst 
us than several other parts of our new divinity, and 
maintained by those that profess to abhor that cor- 
rupt doctrine which the Papists have built upon such 
principles. Modern divines may think they stand 
upon the shoulders of their predecessors whose labours | 
they enjoy, and that they can see farther than they; 
as the schoolmen might have like thoughts of the an- 
cient fathers : but, for all this, they may not be able 
to see so far, if the eyes of their predecessors were 
better enlightened by the Spirit of God, to understand 
the mystery of the gospel. And why may we not 
judge that it is so in the present case? The eyes of 
men in these late years have been blinded in this point 
of assurance by many false imaginations. They think 
because salvation is not promised to us absolutely, 
but upon condition of believing on Christ for it ; 
therefore we must first believe directly on Christ for 
our salvation, and, after that, we must reflect our 
‘ Soin 


151 


minds upon our faith, and examine it by several 
marks and signs, especially by the fruit of sincere 
obedience ; and if, upon this examination, we find out 
certainly, that it is true saving faith, then, and not 
before, we may believe assuredly that we in particular 
shall be saved. On this account they say, that our 
salvation is by the direct, and our assurance by the 
reflex, act of faith ; and that many have true faith, 
and shall be saved, that never have any assurance of 
their salvation as long as they live in this world. 
They find, by Scripture and experience, that man 
siete saints of God are frequently troubled wit 
oubtings whether they shall be saved, and whether 
their faith and obedience be sincere, so that they can- 
not see assurance in themselves: therefore they con- 
clude that assurance must not be accounted absolutely 
necessary to justifying faith and salvation, lest we 
should make the hearts of doubting saints sad, and 
drive them to despair. They account that former 
Protestant’ were guilty of a manifest absurdity, in 
making assurance to be of the nature and definition 
of saying faith, because all that hear the gospel, are 
bound to saving faith, and yet they are not bound 
absolutely to believe that they themselves shall.be 
saved ; for then many of them would be bound to 
believe that which is not declared in the eae con- 
cerning them in particular ; yea, that which is a plain 
lie, because the gospel sheweth that many of those 
that are called are not chosen to salvation, but perish 
for ever.* No wonder if the appearance of so great 
an absurdity move many to imagine, that saving 
faith is a trusting or resting on Christ, as the only 
_ sufficient means of salvation, without any assurance ; 
_ or, that it is a desiring and venturing to trust or rely 
upon him, in a mere state of Hapa and uncertainty 
- concerning our salvation, or with a probable opinion 
njectural hope of it at best. 
. ; * Matt. xx, 16. 


) cs 
152 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X. 


Another objection against this doctrine of assurance 
is, that it destroyeth self-examination, bringeth forth 
the evil fruits of pride and arrogancy, if they knew 
their places in heaven already before the day of judg- 
ment ; causeth carelessness of duty, carnal security, 
all manner of licentiousness. And this maketh them 
commend doubtfulness of .our salvation, as necessar 
to maintain in us humility, religious fears, watchful- 
ness, much searching and trying our spiritual state 
and ways, diligence in good works, and all devotion. 

Against all these contrary imaginations, I shall en- 
deayour to maintain this ancient Protestant doctrine 
of assurance, which I have expressed in the direction. 
And, first, L shall lay down some observations for the 
right understanding of it, which will be sufficient to 
turn the edge of the strongest objections that can be 
made against it. 

First, Observe diligently, that the assurance direct- 
ed unto, is not a persuasion that we have already re- 
ceived Christ and his salvation, or that wé have been 
already brought into a state of grace: but only that 
God is pleased graciously to give Christ and his sal- 
vation unto us, and to bring us into a state of grace, 
though we have been altogether in a state of sin and 
death uutil this present time : so that this doctrine doth 
not at all tend to breed presumption in wicked and un- 
regenerate men, that their state is good already : but 
only encourageth them to come to Christ confidently 
for a good state. I acknowledge, that we may, yea, 
many must be taught to doubt whether their present 
state be good; and that it is humility so to do; and 
that we must find out the certainty and sincerity of 
our faith and obedience by self-examination, before 
we can have a well-grounded assurance that we are 
ina state of grace and salvation already ; and that 
such an assurance belongeth to that which they call 
the reflex act of faith, (if any act of faith can bemade 
of it, it being spiritual sense or feeling of what is in — 
myself, ) and is not of the essence of that faith whereby 


r » 


Direct. X: OF SANCTIFICATION. 1538 


we are justified and saved; and that many precious 
saints are without it, and subject to many doubts that 
are contrary to it; so that they may not know at all 
that it shall go well with them at the day of judg- 
ment; and that it may be sometimes intermitted, if 
not wholly lost after it is gotten ; and that we should 
strive to walk holily, that we may attain to it, be- 
cause it is very useful for our growth and increase in 
faith, and in all holiness. Most Protestants among 
us, when they speak or write of assurance, mean onl 
that which is by reflection. And I have'said pester 
briefly to shew, that what I assert, is consistent with 
the doctrine which is commonly received concerning 
it, and destructive to none of the good fruits of it ; 
therefore not guilty of those evils that some falsel 
charge it with. This kind of assurance, which I speak 
of, answereth not the question, Whether I am already 
ina state of grace and salvation? There is another 
great question that the soul must answer, that it may 
get into a state of grace, Whether God be graciously 
pleased now to bestow Christ and his salvation upon 
me, em I have been hitherto a very wicked crea- 
ture : e must be sure to resolve this question con- 
fortably, by another kind of assurance in the direct 
act of faith, wherein we are to persuade ourselves 
(without reflecting upon any good fakes in 
- ourselves) that God is ready gracious y to receive us 
into the arms of his saying mercy in Christ, notwith- 
standing all our former wickedness, according to that 
gracious promise, I will call them my people, which 
were not my people; and her, beloved, which was not 
beloved. And it shall come to pass, that in the place 
where it was said unto them, Ye are not my people, 
there shall they be called, the children of the living 
_God.* 
_ Secondly, The assurance directed unto, is not a per- 
- suasion of our salvation whatever we do, or however 
i P 


* Rom. ix, 25, 26. 


we 


164 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X. , 


we live and walk ; but only in a limited way through 
mere free grace in Christ, by partaking of holiness as 
well as forgiveness, and by walking in the way of 
holiness to the enjoyment of the glory of God. We 
shall not heartily desire or endeavour to assure our- 
selves of such asalvation as this is, if we be not brought 
first to see our own sinfulness and misery, and to 
despair of our own righteousness and strength, and to 
hunger and thirst for the sanctifying as well as jus- 
tifying grace of God in Christ; that so we may walk 
in the ways of holiness, to the enjoyment of heavenly 
glory. The faith whereby we receive Christ, must 

ave in it, not only a persuasion of happiness, but 
these and the like good qualifications that will make 
it a most holy faith. Certainly an assurance thus 
qualified, will not beget any pride in us, but rather 
humility and self-loathing, except any account it 
pride, to rejoice and glory in Christ, when we have 
no confidence in the flesh.* It will not destroy reli- 
gious fear, and breed carnal security ; but rather it 
will make us fear going aside from Christ, our only 
refuge and security, and walking after the flesh. 
Noah had cause to enter into the ark, and to abide 
there with assurance of his preservation ; yet he might 
well be afraid to venture out of the ark, because he 
was persuaded, that continuance in the ark was his 
only safety from perishing in the flood. And how 
can a persuasion of salvation, in a way of holiness, 
breed slothfulness in duty, carelessness, and licen- 
tiousness? It doth rather mightily allure us, and 
stir us up to be always abounding in the work of the 
Lord, forasmuch as we know that our labour shall 
not be in vain 1n the Lord.t They that are persuad- 
ed of the free grace of God toward them in Christ, 
are not indeed solicitous about earning their salvation 
“by their own legal works. And satan is ready to sug- 
gest to them, that this is a sinful carelessness, and 


* Phil, fii, 3. +1 Cor, xv, 58, 


vt 


BY" if "eye hoa oat 
fp oleae a me 


Direct. X. OF SANCTIFICATION. 155 


tendeth to licentiousness. But they that will believe 
this false suggestion of satan, shew plainly, that they 
do not yet know what it is to serve God in love, and 
that they are held in, to all their obedience, by the 
bit and bridle of slavish fear, as the horse and mule, 
that have no understanding.* 

Thirdly, Beware of thinking so highly of this as- 
surance, as if it were inconsistent with any doubting 
in the same soul. <A great reason why many Protes- 
tants have receded from the doctrine of their ances- 
tors in this point, is, because they think there can be 
no true assurance of salvation in any that are troubled 
with doubtings, as they find many be, whom they 
cannot but own as true believers, and precious saints 
of God. True, indeed, this assurance must be con- 
trary to doubtings in the nature of it; and so, if it 
were perfect in the highest degree, it would exclude 
all doubting out of the soul, and it doth now exclude 
it in some degree. But is there not flesh as well as 
spirit in the best saints on earth ?+ Is there not a law 
in their members warring against the law of their 
minds?{ May not one that truly believeth, say, 
Lord, help my unbelief?§ Can any one on earth say, 
they have received any grace in the highest degree, 
and that they are wholly free from the contrary cor- 
ruption ? Why then should we think, that assurance 
cannot be true, except it be perfect, and free the soul 
from all doubtings? The apostle accounts it a great 
blessing to the Thessalonians, that they had much as- 
surance ; intimating, that some true assurance might 
be in a less degree.|| Peter had some good assurance 
of Christ’s help, when he walked on the water at 
Christ’s command ; and yet he had some doubtfulness 
in him, as his fear shewed when he saw the wind 

_ boisterous. He had some faith contrary to doubt- 
ing, though it were but little, as Christ’s words to 


+ * Psalm xxii, 9. + Gal. v, 17. t Rom. vii, 23. 
a -S Mark ix, 24. _ || 1 Thess, i, 5. p 


. > a ve 
es, § SNe eee cna he 


156 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X. 


him shew. O thou of little faith, wherefore didst 
thou doubt?* It is strange if the flesh and the devil 
should never oppose a true assurance, and assault it 
with doubtings. A believer may be sometimes so 
overwhelmed with doubtings, that he may not be 
able to perceive an assurance in himself. He is so 
far from knowing his place in heaven already (as some 
scoffingly object) that he will say, that he knoweth 
not any assurance that he hath of being there, and 
needeth diligent self-examination to find it out. Yet, 
if at that time he can blame his soul for doubting, 
Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art 
thou disquieted within me? hope thou in God, for I 
shall yet praise him;t+ if he can condemn his doubt- 
ings as sinful, and say with himself, This is my infir- 
mity;{ these doubtings are of the flesh, and of the 
devil; if he still endeavour to call God, Father, and 
complain to him, that he doubteth whether he be his 
father, and pray, that God will give him the assur- 
ance of his fatherly love, which he is not sensible of, 
and dispel those fears and doubtings: I say, that such 
a one hath some true assurance, though he must strive 
to grow to a higher degree; for, if he were not per- 
suaded of the truth of the love of God towards him, 
he could not rationally condemn his fears and doubts 
concerning it as sinful; neither could he rationally 
pray to God as his Father, or that God would assure 
him of that love that he doth not think to be true. 
Do but grant that it is the nature of saving faith, 
thus to resist and struggle with slavish fears of wrath, 
and doubting of our own salvation ; and you grant, in 
effect, that there is, and must be, something of assurance 
of our salvation in saving faith, whereby it resisteth 
doubtings; and you are, in effect, of the same judg- 
ment with me in the assertion, however strange my 
expressions seem to you. If this that I have said, 
concerning our imperfection in assurance, as well as 


* Matt. xiv, 29—31. + Psalm xlii, 11. } Psalm Ixxvii, 10. 


* 


: Direct. xX. OF SANCTIFICATION, 157 


in other graces, were well considered, this ancient 
Protestant doctrine would be freed much from pre- 
judice, and gain more esteem among us. 

Fourthly, In the last place, Let it be well observ- 
ed, that the reason why we are to assure ourselves in 
our faith, that God freely giveth Christ and his sal- 
vation to us particularly, is not, because it is a truth 
before we believe it, but because it hecometh a cer- 
tain truth when we believe it, and because it will 
never be true, except we do in some measure persuade 
and assure ourselves that it isso. We have no abso- 
lute promise or declaration in Scripture, that God 
certainly will or doth give Christ and his salvation to 
aa one of us in particular; neither do we know it 
to be true already by Scripture, or sense, or reason, 
_ before we assure ourselves absolutely of it: yea, we 
are without Christ’s salvation at present, in a state of 

_ sin and misery, under the curse and wrath of God. 

Only I Shall prove, that we are bound, by the com- 

mand of God, thus to assure ourselves ; and the Serip- 

ture doth sufficiently warrant us, that we shall not 

_ deceive ourselves in believing a lie: but according to 
our faith, so shall it be to us.* This is a strange kind 
of assurance, far different from other ordinary kinds; 
and therefore no wonder if it be found weak and im- 
perfect, and difficult to be obtained, and assaulted 
with many doubtings. We are constrained to believe 
_ other things on the clear evidence we have that they 
are true, and would remain true, whether we believe 
' them or no; so that we cannot deny our assent, with- 
out rebelling against the light of our senses, reason, 
conscience. But here our assurance is not impress- 
on our thoughts by any evidence of the thing ; 
t we must work it out in ourselves by the assist- 
ee of the Spirit of God, and thereby we bring our 
thoughts into captivity to the obedience of Christ. 
but God can justly require of us this kind of 


‘ 


* Matt. ix, 29. 


158 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X. 


assurance, because he only calleth those things that 
are not, as though they were.* He only ean give 
existence to the things that yet are not, and make a 
thing to be true, upon our believing it, that was not 
true before. He only can make good that promise, 
What things soever ye desire when ye pray, believe 
that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.f Who 
is he that saith, and it cometh to pass, when the Lord 
commandeth it not?{ Therefore this faith is due to 
God only, and greatly redoundeth to his glory. Men 
will often require a believing something like it: as 
when one says, I will forgive your offence, and be 
your friend, if I can find that you believe it, and that 
you take me for a friend. But their fallible word is 
not sufficient ground to make us persuade ourselves 
absolutely, that we shall have their promised fayour, 
The faith of miracles gives us some light in this mat- 
ter. Christ assured them on whom they were wrought, 
and who had power given them of working them, » 
that the miracles should be wrought, if they believed 
without doubting of the event. And there is a rea- 
son for this resemblance ; because the end of working 
miracles was to confirm the doctrine of the gospel of 
salvation by faith in Christ’s name, as the Scriptures 
clearly shew: and indeed the salvation of a sinner is 
avery great miracle. It is reported that wizards do 
often require those that come to them, that they 
should believe they shall obtain what they desire of — 
them, or at least that they are able to fulfil their de- 
sires, whereby the devil, the master of those wizards, 
sheweth himself to be God’s ape, and that he would 
fain have that honour and glory ascribed to himself 
that is due to God alone. 

Having thus explained thenature of that assurance — 
which I have directed unto, I shall now produce 
several arguments to prove, that there is, and must 
necessarily be, such an assurance or persuasion of our 
salvation in saving faith itself. % 2 ; 

* Rom.iyv,17. + Mark xi, 24. { Lam. iii, 37. 


a re 


§ Mark xi, 22, 23. 


rie 
© ey 


rect. X. OF SANCTIFICATION, 169 
_ _ First, This assurance of salvation is implied in the 
description before given of that faith, whereby we re- 
ceive Christ, and his salvation, into our hearts. I 
described faith to be a grace of the Spirit, whereby 
we heartily believe the gospel, and also believe on 
Christ, as he is revealed and freely promised to us 
therein, for all his salvation. And I shewed, in the 
explanation, that believing on Christ is the same with 
resting, relying, leaning, staying ourselves on Christ, 
or God through Christ, for our salvation. It may 
be, some will like that description the better, because 
faith was there described by terms that are ordinarily 
used, even by those that deny the necessity of assur- 
ance; but these ordinary terms do sufficiently include 
assurance in the nature of faith, and they cannot 
stand without it. And this sheweth, that many hold 
the doctrine of assurance implicitly, and profess it, 
though they think the contrary. Believing on Christ 
for salvation, as freely promised to us, must needs 
include a dependance on Christ, with a persuasion, 
that salvation shall be freely given, as it is freely 
promised to us. Believing with a divine faith, 
-grounded on the infallible truth of the free promise, 
if it did not in some measure exclude a mere suspense, 
and wayering opinion or conjecture, were not worthy 
tobe so called. Some may be so absurd as to say, that 
faith is only a believing, that we shall be saved by 
_ Christ if we perform such conditions as he requireth : 
and then indeed it will leave us where it found us, as 
_ to any certainty of salvation, until those conditions 
_ be performed, But I have already prevented such 
an absurdity, by shewing, that this believing on 
Christ, is itself, not only the condition of our salva- 
tion, but also the instrument whereby we actually 
receive it. Believing, being the proper act of faith, 
ist needs have the same contraries to it; as stagger- 
“* wavering,t doubting, | fear.§ These contraries 


iv, 20. + Heb. x, 23. } Matt. xiv, 31. § Mark y, 36. 


’ 
160 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X. 


do much illustrate the nature of faith: and do shew, 
that believing must have some confidence in it, else it 
would have doubting in the very nature of it: for 
what man that understandeth the preciousness of his 
immortal soul, and his danger of losing it, can ever 
avoid fear, doubting, and trouble of heart, by any be- 
lieving whereby he doth not at all assure himself of 
his salvation? The other terms of trusting and rest- 
ing on Jesus Christ, &c. whereby faith is often de- 
scribed by orthodox teachers, must include assurance 
of salvation, because they signify the same thing with 
believing on Christ. The soul must have its sufficient 
support, to bear it up against oppressing fears, 
troubles, cares, despair, that it may thus trust and 
rest. ‘The right manner of trusting and hoping in the 
Lord, is, by assuring ourselves, against all fears and 
doubtings, that “the Lord is our God, and he is be- 
come our salvation. I trusted in thee, O Lord: I 
said, thou art my God.* The Lord is my rock, and my 
fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in 
whom I will trust.f Behold, God is my salvation: I 
will trust and not be afraid.{ O my soul, hope thou 
in God, who is the health of my countenance, and m 

God.”§ True hope is grounded in God only, that he 
will bless us, that it may be an anchor for the soul, 
sure and stedfast.|| If you trust, rely, and stay 
yourselves on Christ, or hope in him, without assur- 
ing yourselves at all of salvation by him, you make 
no better use of him, than if he were a broken reed : 
and, if you would stay yourselves on the Lord, you 
must look upon him as your God; as the prophet 
teacheth, Let him trust in the name of the Lord, and 
stay upon his God.@ If you would rest in the Lord, 
you must believe, that he dealeth bountifully with 
you,[ or else, for aught you know, you may make 


* Psalm xxxi, 14. + Psalm xviii, 2. t Isa. xii, 2. 
§ Psalm xlii, 11. || Heb. vi, 17—19. q Isa. i, 10. 
{ Psalm cxvi, 7, 


> 


‘4 


4 


Direct. X. OF SANCTIFICATION. 161 


your bed in hell. And you will shew little regard of 
Christ, and of your own soul, if you dare to rest 
under the wrath of God, without any persuasion of a 
sure interest in Christ. People may please them- 
selyes with such a trusting or resting, &c. when the 
are at ease; but, in time of temptation, it vanisheth 
away, and appeareth to be no true faith, but is turned 
into shame. The soul that liveth in’ such wavering 
_and doubting concerning salvation, doth not stay itself 
nor rest at all; but is like a wave of the sea, driven 
with the wind, and tossed; he is a double-minded 
man, unstable in all his ways.* If you continue in 
mere suspense and doubtfulness of salvation by Christ, 
your desire to trust, is but a lazy woulding, without 
any fixed resolution, and you dare not yet venture to 
trust on him stedfastly. If you call it only your de- 
sire to trust and rely on Jesus Christ, I may answer, 
that you cannot do this much in a right manner, ex- 
cept you desire and venture to persuade and assure _ 
yourselves of your salvation by Christ, notwithstand- 
ing all the causes that you have to doubt and fear the 
contrary. If it be objected, that we may trust on 
Christ only as a sufficient means of salvation, without 
any assurance of the effect; I shall acknowledge, 
that the sufficiency of God and Christ-is a good 
round for us to rest on: but we must understand by 
it, not only a sufficiency of power, but also of good- 
will and mercy towards us; for what have we to do 
-more with the sufficiency of God’s and Christ’s 
power than fallen angels, without his good-will to- 
wards us? And if this be truly believed, it will ex- 
clude doubtfulness concerning your salvation. 
Secondly, Several places of Scripture declare posi- 
ively and expressly, that we are to be assured of our 
ation in that faith whereby we are justified and 
I shall produce some instances. We are ex- 
| to draw near to God with full assurance of 


a ate a Sl ils 


“4 } 
_- * James i, 6, 8 iy 
4, Oe 0 2 13; ; ae e 
or or ae f ie 


162 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X. 


faith.* Many apply this text to that which they call 
the reflex act of faith, because they imagine that all 
assurance must needs be by reflection. But the words 
of the text do clearly teach us to understand it of that 
act of faith whereby we draw near to God; that is, 
the direct act; and it is that very faith whereby the 
just do live, even justifying saving faith.t And this 
assurance must be full, at least in the true and proper 
nature of it, in opposition unto mere doubtfulness 
and uncertainty, though we are yet further to labour 
for that which is full in the highest degree of perfec- 
tion. And the same faith whereby we are exhorted 
to draw nigh unto God, and whereby the just liveth, 
is, a little after,{ affirmed to be the substance of 
things hoped for, and the evidence of things not seen. 
Why should saving faith have these high titles and 
attributes given to it, if it did not contain in it a sure 
persuasion of the great things of our salvation hoped 
for, which maketh them to be evident to the eyes of 
our mind, as if they were already present in their 
substance, though not yet visible to our bodily eyes? 
That faith whereby we are made partakers of Christ, 
and to be Christ’s house, must be worthy to be called 
confidence, and accompanied with rejoicing hope: 
«Whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence 
and rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end.”’§ What 
is confidence concerning any thing, but trusting con- 
cerning it, with a firm persuasion of the truth of it? 
If we have only a strong opinion concerning a thing, 
without any absolute certainty, we use to say, that 
we are not altogether confident of it. The faith 
whereby we are justified, must be in a measure like 
to the faith whereby Abraham against hope believed 
in hope, that his seed should certainly be multiplied 
according to the promise of God: though, by reason 
_ of the deadness of his own body, and of Sarah’s 


* Heb. x, 22, + Heb, x, 38. t Chap. xi, 1. 
§ Heb. iii, 6, 14. ahr 
(Zz es 


wh 
Direct. X. OF SANCTIFICATION. 165 


womb, he could have no.evidence from his own quali- 
fications to assure himself of it ; but all appearances 
were rather to the contrary; as the apostle teacheth 
clearly.* As absolute as this promise was, thus 
made to Abraham, yet it was not to be fulfilled with- 
out this assurance of faith; and, by the like faith, the 
free promises of salvation by Christ will be absolutely 
fulfilled tous. The apostle Jamesexpressly requir- 
eth, that we should ask good things of God in faith, 
nothing doubting; which includeth assurance mani- 
festly: and he tells us plainly, that without it a man 
ought not to think that he shall receive any thing of 
the Lord. Therefore we may firmly conclude, that 
without it we shall not receive the salvation of Christ.t 
And that which the apostle James requireth us not to 
doubt of, is the obtaining the things that we ask; as 
we may learn from an instruction to the same pur- 
pose given to us by Christ himself, “What things 
soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive 
them, and ye shall have them.” More places of 
Scripture might be alleged to the same purpose ; but 
these are sufficient to evince, that we are bound to 
assure ourselves of our salvation in faith itself, or else 
we are never likely to enjoy it; and that it is not 
humility, but rather proud disobedience, to live in a 
state of mere suspense and doubtfulness concerning 
our salvation ; and that this assurance must be in the 
direct act of faith whereby we are justified and saved. 
For, as for that which is called the reflex act of faith, 
it isa certain truth, and generally owned, that it is 
not absolutely necessary to salvation to any; and that 
it is sinful and pernicious to many to believe, that 
_ they are already entered’ into a state of grace and 
salvation. 
Thirdly, God giveth us sufficient ground in Serip- 
_ ture to come to Christ with confident faith, at_the 
very first; trusting assuredly, that Christ and his 
i \\ 
iy + James i, 6, 7. t Mark xi, 24. | 


ae 


9, 23, 24, 


164 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X.. 


salvation shall be given to us without any failing and 
delay, however vile and sinful our condition hath 
been hitherto. The Scripture speaketh to the vilest 
sinners in such a manner as if it were framed on pur- 
pose to beget assurance of salvation in them imme- 
diately.* This promise is universal, that whosoever 
believeth on Christ, shall not be ashamed, without 
making a difference between Jew and Greek.f And 
this promise is confirmed by the blood of Christ, who 
was given for the world, and lifted up upon the cross 
for this very end, that whosoever believeth on him, 
should not perish, but have everlasting life.[ His 
invitation is free to any, If any man thirst, let him 
come to me and drink; and this drink is promised to 
every one that believeth.§ The command of beliey- 
ing is propounded, not only in general, but in parti- 
cular; and the promise of salvation upon believing, is 
also applied personally, and that to such as haye 
been hitherto in a state of sin and wrath; as to the 
wicked, persecuting, self-murdering jailor.|| ‘ Believe 


_ on the Lord Jesus, and thou shalt be saved, and 


thine house.” God commanded them that walked 
altogether in sin hitherto, to call him their own 
father, in their very first returning.{| So,** God 
saith, he will say, Thou art my people; and they 
shall say, Thou art my God: confidently averring 
their personal interest in him, God hath joined con- 
fidence and salvation inseparably together: In re- 
turning and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and 
in confidence shall be your strength.t+ What a poor 
slender use and improvement do many make of these 
discoveries of the rich grace of God towards sinners, 
who say, that, if we see that we have performed the 
condition of believing, then we may take Christ confi- 
dently as our own! ‘They skip over the first and 


* Acts ii, 39, and iii, 26. + Rom.x, 11,12, $John iii, 14, 15, 16. 
§ John vii, 37,39. || Acts xvi, 31. Jer. iii, 4. ** Hos. ii, 23. 
+7 Isa. xxx, 15. py 


+ fh ea 


‘on ol 


Direct. X. OF SANCTIFICATION. 165 


principal use they ought to make of them. The very 
performance of the condition is to take Christ as our 
own immediately, and to eat him, and drink him, by 
believing confidently on him for our salvation. If an 
honest rich man say to a poor woman, I promise to 
be thy husband if thou wilt have me; say but the 
word, and I am thine; may she not presently answer 
confidently, then thou art my husband, and I claim 
thee for my husband: and should she mot rather say 
so, than say, I believe not what thou sayest? If an 
honest man say, do but take this gift, and it is your 
own; do but eat and drink, and you are freely wel- - 
come; may not I take the gift and eat and drink at 
first, without any further ado, and with assurance 
that it is mine freely? If I do it doubtingly, I dis- 
parage the honesty and credit of the donor, as if he 
were not a man of his word. In like manner, if, 
fearing to be too confident, lest we should believe a 
lie, we should come to Christ doubtingly, and in 
mere suspense, whether we shall be freely entertained, 
after all God’s free invitations and promises, should 
we not disparage the faithfulness of God! and should 
we not be guilty of making God a liar? as the apostle 
John teacheth, because of our not believing the re- 
cord which God gave of his Son: And this is the re- 
cord that God hath given to us, eternal life; and this 
life is in his Son.* And what if the salvation prom- 
ised be not absolutely intended for all to whom the 
; gos el cometh ; it is enough, that God giveth us his 
faithful word, that they that believe shall have it, 
and none else; and hath absolutely intended to fulfil 
his word that none shall find it to be a lie to them, 
_ and hath joined believing and salvation inseparably 
- together. On this ground) God may justly cause the 
promise of this salvation to be published to all, and 
May justly require all to believe on him assuredly 
wr their salvation, that so it may appear whether 


* | John vy, 10, Il. 


166 TUE GOSPEL MYSTERY —»«-_Direct. X. 
they will give him the glory of his iruth; and, if 
they will not, he may justly reject them, and punish 
them severely for dishonouring him by their unbelief. 
In this case, we must not look to the secret decrees 
of God, but to his revealed promises and command. 
Thus God promised to the Israelites in the wilder- 
ness, that he would give them the land of Canaan, 
and would fight for them against their enemies; and 
required them not to fear or be discouraged, that so 
the promise might be fulfilled to them: yet God 
never absolutely decreed or intended, that those 
Israelites should enter in; as the event did quickly 
manifest. Yet were they not bound in this case to 
trust confidently in God to give them victory over 
their enemies, and to give them the possession of the 
land? had they not sufficient ground for such a faith? 
Was it not just with God to consume them in the 
wilderness for their unbelief? Let us therefore fear, 
lest a promise being made of entering into this ever- 
lasting rest through Christ, we should come short of 
it, and fall after the same example of unbelief.>+ 
Fourthly, The professors of true godliness that we 
read of through the Scripture of the Old and New 
Testament, did commonly profess their assurance and 
persuasion of their interest in God and his salvation, 
and were directed by the word of God so to do; and 
true saints had still some true assurance of it. And 
we have no cause to judge that this assurance was 
grounded on the certainty of their own good qualifi- 
cations, but rather on the promises of God by the 
direct act of faith. We may judge of the ordinary 
rofession of the frame of spirit that was in the saints 
y some instances. I shall begin with the profession 
that the church made when it was very corrupt, at 
its first coming out of Egypt, when few of them could 
assure themselves, by their own good qualifications, 
that they were in a state of grace already ; which 


* Deut. i, 20, 21, 29, 30. + Heb. iv, 1, 11. : 


= * = 


t, X. OF SANCTIFICATION, 167 


_ many now imagine to be the only way of assurance. 
_ Even in that corrupt time, the children of Israel sung 
that triumphant song of Moses, “The Lord is my 
strength and my song, and he is become my salvation : 
he is my God,” &c.* Moses taught them, in this 
song, to assure themselves of their own personal in- 
terest in the salvation ; and he guided them to the 
practice of their duty. And they did not find fault 
with Moses, as some do with ministers in these days, 
for putting them to express more confidence in their 
song, than they could find ground for in their qualifi- 
cations ; but they applied themselves to the exercise 
of their faith, agreeably to their song ; and, doubtless, 
this faith was unfeigned in some few of them, though 
but feigned in others ; for it is testified of them that, 
then they believed his words, they sang his praise.t 
Several other psalms and songs that were by Divine 
appointment in common use under the Old Testa- 
ment, are as clear an evidence as we can desire, of 
that assurance of faith which was commonly professed A 
and that people were generally bound to, under the Fe 
Old Testament.{ Many other psalms, or expressions 
in psalms, might be alleged. ‘The spirits of few, in 
comparison, could have thoroughly complied with 
such psalms, though they were true believers, if all 
the assurance of the love of God must altogether de- 
pend upon the certain knowledge of the sincerity of 
their own hearts. We have a great-cloud of witnesses 
gathered out of the whole history of the Old Testa- 

- ment,§ who did, and suffered, and obtained great 

_ things by faith, whose examples are produced on pur- 

_ pose that we may follow them in believing, to the say- 
| ing of our souls.|| And if we consider these examples ~ 
particularly, we shall find that many of them do 
evidently guide us to such a saving faith as hath an 
rance of the effect contained in the nature of it. 


+ Psa. cvi.12.  ¢ Psa. xxiii, xxvii, xliv, xlvi. 
_ § Heb, xi. || Heb. x, 39.) 


- 


Z ’ 


i ee 


lige 


168 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X. 


I confess we read several times of the fears and doubt- 
ings of the saints under the Old Testament ; but we 
read also how their faith opposed such fears and 
doubts, and how they themselves condemned them as 
contrary to faith, as in the Psalms.* The most 
mournful Psalm in Scripture begins with an expres- 
sion of some assurance.t And we may note, that 
the doubtings that we meet with of the saints of 
old, were commonly occasioned by some extraordi- 
nary affliction, or some heinous transgression ; not by 
common failings, or the common original depravation 
of nature, or the uncertainty of their election, or any 
thought that it is humility to doubt, and that they 
were not bound to be confident of God’s salvation, 
because then many might be bound to believe a lie. 
It is hard to find any of these occasions of doubting 
under the Old Testament, though they are grown so 
rife among us now under the new Testament. 

In the time of the apostles, we may well expect 
that the assurance of faith grew higher, because the 
salvation of Christ was revealed, and the spirit of 
adoption poured forth plentifully, and the church 
made free from its former bondage under the terrify- 
ing legal covenant. Paul could prove to primitive 
Christians, by appeals to their own experience, that 
they were the children and heirs of God, because 
they had not received the spirit of bondage again unto 
fear, but the spirit of adoption, whereby they cry, 
Abba, Father. The Spirit itself bearing witness with 
our spirits, (or beareth our spirits witness, as the 
Syriac and vulgar Latin render it, and as the like 
Greek phrase is rendered) { that we are the children 
of God. And if children, then heirs.§ And the 
apostle tells the Ephesians, that, after they believed, 
they were sealed with the Holy Spirit, which was the 
earnest of their inheritance.|| They were sealed from 


* Psa. xlii, 11. xxxi, 22, and Ixxvili, 7. 10. + Psa. Ixxxviii, 1. 
t Rom.ix,1.  § Rom, viii, 15, 16,17. Gal.iv,6. || Eph. i, 13, 14. — 


‘ 


pet : 


Direct. +s OF SANCTIFICATION, 169 


the same time that they believed; for the original 
words are in the same tense. If this witness, seal, 
and earnest of the Spirit had not been ordinary to he- 
lievers, it would not have been sufficient to prove that 
they were the children of God; and such manner of 
arguing might have driven some to despair, that 
wanted this witness, seal, and earnest. 

Let us enquire now whether the Spirit beareth wit- 
ness that we are the children of God, and enableth us 
to ery, Abba, Father, by the direct act, or by that 
which they call the reflex act of faith? For we must 
not think that it is done by an enthusiasm, without 
any ordinary means ; nor can we reasonably imagine 
that no true believers can call God, Father, by the 
guidance of the Spirit, but only those few that are so 
sure of their own sincerity, that, by reflecting upon 
it, they can ground an act of faith concerning their 
own interest in Christ; no, surely. Therefore we 
may judge rather that the Spirit worketh this in us, 

y giving us saving faith itself, by the direct act of 
which all true believers are enabled to trust assuredly 
on Christ for the enjoyment of the adoption of chil- 
dren, and all his salvation, according to the free pro- 
mise of God ; and to call God, Father, without re- 
flecting on any good qualifications in themselves: for 
the Spirit is received by the direct act of faith,* and 
so he is the Spirit of adoption and comfort to all that 
receive him. They that assert that the Spirit wit- 
nesseth our adoption only, by assuring us of the sin- 
cerity of our faith, love, and other gracious qualifica- 
tions, and by the reflex act of faith, do teach also 

commonly, that you must again try whether the 
spirit thus witnessing, be the spirit of truth or of 
_ delusion, by searching narrowly whether our inward 
' grace be sincere or counterfeit ; so that hereby the 
_ testimony of the Spirit is rendered so hard to be dis- 
_ cerned, that it standeth us in no stead; but all our 


* Gal. iil, 2. ‘ 
Pe be 


bes 


at Jags iia ae Pl ae 


“s Petes rs 


‘ 


, Direct. X. 


170 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY 


assurance is made at last to depend on our own cer- 
tain knowledge of our own sincerity. There are 
several other evidences to shew that believers generally 
were persuaded of their salvation in the apostle’s 
times. They loved and waited for the coming of 
Christ to judge the world.* They loved all the saints 
for the hope that was laid up for them in heaven.t 
The Corinthians, who were very carnal, and but babes 
in Christ, were persuaded that they should judge the 
world, and angels, and that their bodies were members 
of Christ, and the temples of the Holy Ghost.f The 
very first coming of the gospel to the Thessalonians 
was in the Holy Ghost, and much assurance; so that 
-they received it in much affliction, with joy of the 
Holy Ghost, when as yet they had no considerable 
time to get assurance, by reflecting on their good 
qualifications.§ Like-ways, the believing Hebrews, 
when they were illuminated at their first conversion, 
took joyfully the spoiling of their goods, knowing 
that they had in heaven a better and an enduring 
substance: and this was their confidence, which the 
were not to cast off, because the just liveth by faith. 
And, therefore, it appeareth that this confidence be- 
longeth necessarily to justifying saving faith.]|| 

Now, let those that allege the examples or expe- 
riences of many modern Christians to disprove all 
that I have asserted, consider well whether these are 
fit to be laid in the balance against all the Scripture 
examples and experiences that I have produced out 
of the Old and New Testaments. I confess that as- 
surance of salvation is more rarely professed hy Chris- 
tians in these times than formerly ; and we may thank 
some teachers for it that have deserted the doctrine of 
former Protestants on this point, and vented against 
it several errors, such as haye been already named ; 


and now would take advantage to confirm the truth — 


* 1 Cor. i, 7.—2 Tim, iv, 8. f Col. i,3, 4,5. £1) Cor. vi, 2; 3,15, 19. | 
§ 1 Thess. i, 5, 6. || Heb. x, 32, 34, 35, 38. 


4 


OF SANCTIFICATION, 171 


_of their doctrines from those doubtings in Christians 
that have heen chiefly occasioned by it. But, how- 
ever, the nature of saving faith is still the same; and 
I assert, that in these days, as well as formerly, it 
always hath in it some assurance of salvation by Christ 
which doth and will appear, at least in resisting and 
condemning all doubtings and praying against them, 
and endeavouring to trust assuredly, and to call God, 
Father ; except in extraordinary desertions, by which 
our case must not be tried» We are not to trust the 
judgment of many concerning themselves.. They will 
judge falsely that they have no assurance at all, be- 
cause they know not yet, by marks and signs, that 
they are in a state of grace already, or because they 

think that there is no assurance when there are many 
doubtings, and because it is so weak and so much op- 
pressed with doubting that it can hardly be discerned, 
as life in a fainting fit. But, if their judgments be 
better informed, they may be brought to discern some 
assurance in themselves. We are also to take heed of 
mistaking those for true believers that are not so; and 
of judging this point by their experiences, which is a 
vulgar error. The blind charity of some moveth them 
to take all for true believers who are full of doubts 
and troubles concerning their salvation, though it 
may be they only are convinced of sin, and brought 
to some zeal of God, that is not according to the 
knowledge of the way of salvation by Christ: and 
they think it duty to comfort such ignorant persons, 

y persuading them that their state is good, and their 
faith right, though they have no assurance of salva- 
tion. Thus they are brought to judge falsely con- 
cerning the nature of faith out of their blind charity 
o such as are yet in ignorance and unbelief; and, 
instead of comforting such, they rather take the direct 

7 to harden them in their natural state, and to 

livert them from secking consolation by saving faith 
Christ, aud to ruin their souls for ever. 

The chief office of this faith, 


ks i Paes 


in its direct 
\\ 


172 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, X. 


saving act, is to receive Christ and his salvation ac- 
tually into our hearts, as hath been proved; which 
office cannot be rationally performed, except we do, 
in some measure, persuade our hearts and assure our- 
selves of the enjoyment of him. As the body receiveth 
things into itself by the hands and mouth, so the soul 
receiveth these things to itself, and layeth actual hold 
of them, by the faculty of the will, making choice of 
them and embracing them, in a way of present enjoy- 
ment and possession, as it doth by the faculty of the 
understanding see and apprehend them, Thus the 
soul receiveth comfort from outward things, as a 
righteous person cannot receive inward comfort from 
outward things, as from worldly estate, wife, husband, 
friends, &c., except he choose them as good, and ac- 
count them his own by a right and title. This is the 
only rational way whereby the soul can actively lay 
hold on Christ, and take actual possession of him, and 
his salvation, and he is freely offered and promised to 
us in the gospel, by the grace of faith, which God hath 
appointed to be our great instrument for the receiving 
of him, and closing with him. If we do not make 
choice of Christ as our only salvation and happiness, 
or if we be altogether in a state of suspense and 
doubting, whether God will be pleased to give Christ 
to us or no, it is evident that our souls are quite loose 
from Christ, and have no holdfast or enjoyment of 
him. They do not so much as pretend to any actual 
* receiving or laying hold or choosing of him, neither | 
are they fully satisfied that it is lawful for them so to 
do, but rather they are yet to seek whether they have 
any good ground and right to lay hold on him or no. 
Let any rational man judge whether the soul doth, or 
can put forth any sufficient act for the reception and 
enjoyment of Christ as its Saviour, head, or husband, 
while it is yet in doubt, whether it be the will of 
Christ to be joined with it in such a near relation? 
Can a woman honestly receive any one as her hus- 
band, without being assured that he is fully willing 


| Direct. X. OF SANCTIFICATION. 173 


to be her husband? The same may be said concern- 
‘ing the several parts of Christ’s salvation, which are 
to be received by faith. It is evident that we do not 
aright receive the benefit of remission of sins, for the 
purging of our consciences from that guilt that lieth 
upon them, unless we have an assured persuasion of 
od’s forgiving them. We do not actually receive 
into our hearts our reconciliation with God, and adop- 
tion of children, and the title to an eyerlasting inheri- 
tance, until we can assure ourselves that God is gra- 
ciously pleased to be our God and Father, and take us 
to be ie children and heirs. We do not actually re- 
ceive any snfficient strength to encourage our hearts to 
holiness in all difficulties, until we can stedfastly be- 
lievethat God is with us and will not fail norforsake us, 
_ Hence, then, we may firmly conclude that whoso 
seeketh to be saved by faith, and doth not seek to 
have assurance or confidence of his own salvation, 
doth but deceive himself and delude his soul with a 
mere fancy instead of saving faith, and doth, in effect, 
seelx to be saved in his corrupt natural state, without 
receiving and laying actual hold of the Lord Jesus 
Christ and his salvation. 

Siwthly, It is also a great and necessary office of 
saving faith, to purify the heart, and to enable us to 
live and walk in the practice of all holy duties, by the 
grace of Christ, and by Christ himself living in us, as 

th been shewed betore; which office faith is not 

_ able to perform, except some assurance of our own - 
interest in Christ and his salvation be comprehended 
in the nature of it. If we would live to God, not to 
ourselves, but by Christ living in us, according to 
. Paul’s example, we must be able to assure ourselves, 
as he did, “Christ loved me, and gave himself for 
' me.”* We are. taught, that, “if we live in the 
_ Spirit, we should walk in the Spirit.”*+ It would be 
_ high presumption if we should endeavour to walk 


* Gal. fi, 20. f Gal. v, 25... Cay 
53 B24 


174 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X. 


above our natural strength and power by the Spirit, 
before we have made sure of our liying by the Spirit. 
I have shewed, that we cannot make use of the com- 
fortable benefits of the saying grace of Christ, where- 
by the gospel doth engage and encourage us to a holy 
practice, except we have some confidence of our own 
interest in those saving benefits. If we do not as- 
suredly believe, that we are dead to sin, and alive to 
God through Christ, and risen with Christ, and not 
under the law, but under grace, and members of 
Christ’s body, the temple of his Spirit, the dear chil- 
dren of God, it would be hypocrisy to serve God 
upon the account of such privileges, as if we reckoned 
ourselves to be partakers of them, He that thinks 
he should doubt of his salvation, is not a fit disciple 
for this manner of doctrine; and he may reply to the 
eae of the gospel, If you would bring me to 
oliness, you must make use of other more effectual 
arguments; for I cannot practise upon these princi- 
ples, because I have not faith oneal to believe that 
I have any interest in them. Some arguments taken 
from the justice and wrath of God against sinners, 
and his mercy towards those that perform the condi- 
tion of sincere obedience, would work more power- 
fully upon me. O what a miserable worthless kind 
of saving faith is this, that cannot fit a believer to 
practise, in a gospel-manner, upon the most pure and 
powerful principles of grace, but rather leave him to 
work upon legal principles, which can never bring 
him to serve God acceptably out of love! And as 
such a faith faileth wholly in the right manner of 
obeying upon gospel-principles, so it faileth also in 
the very matter of some great duties, which are of 
such a nature, that they include assurance of God’s 
love in the right performance of them; such are those 
great duties of peace with God, rejoicing in the Lord 
always, hope that maketh not ashamed, owning the. 
Lord as our God and our Saviour, praying to him as 
our Father in heaven, offering up body and soul as an 


Direct. X. OF SANCTIFICATION. 175 


acceptable sacrifice to him, casting all our cares of 
body and soul upon him, contentment and hearty 
thanksgiving in every condition, making our boast in 
the Lord, triumphing in his praise, rejoicing in tribu- 
lation, putting on Christ in our baptism, ae 
Christ’s body as broken for us and his blood as she 
for us in the Lord’s supper, committing our souls 
willingly to God as our Redeemer, whenever he shall 
be pleased to call for us; loving Christ’s second ap- 
os and looking for~it-as that blessed hope. 
hen we fall into any sudden doubting whether we are 
in a state of grace already ; when we are called to any 
present undertaking, as to partake of the Lord’s re 
per, or any duty that requires assurance to the right 
performance of it, we must relieve ourselves by trust- 
ing confidently in Christ for the present gift of his 
salvation, or else we shall be driven to omit the duty, 
or not to perform it rightly or sincerely. Can we 
judge ourselves already in a state of grace by the re- 
flex act of faith, if we do not find, that we perform 
these duties, at least several of them, sincerely; or if 
we do not find, that we have such a holy faith as doth 
enable or incline us to the performance of them? 
And can we be thus enabled and inclined by any 
faith that is without some true assurance of our sal- 
vation? Therefore J conclude, that we must neces- 
sarily haye some assurance of our salvation in the 
direct act of faith, whereby we are justified, sanctified, 
and saved, before we can, upon any good ground, as- 
sure ourselves, that we are already in a state of salva- 
tion, by that which they call the reflex act.. Give 
me such a saving faith as will produce such fruits as 
these. No other faith will work by love, and there- 
- fore will not avail to salyation in Christ.* The 
apostle James putteth thee upon shewing thy faith 
_ by thy petks. And, in this trial, this faith of as- 
' surance cometh off with high praise and honour. 


ASE ; * Gal. v, 6. + James ii, 18. 
‘ie a \\ 


+e oe he oN vey Pee Pe 


q Bley 1) wi Dts | da: 
—— es Se i 
ee vies. 


176 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X. 


When God calleth his people to-work outward mi- 
racles by it, all things have been possible to them ; 
and it hath frequently brought forth such works of 
righteousness, as may be deservedly esteemed great 
spiritual miracles, rom hence hath proceeded that 
heroic fortitude of the people of God, whereby their 
absolute obedience to God hath shined forth in doing 
and suffering those great things which are recorded 
in the holy Scriptures, and in the histories of the 
church. And if we be ever called to the fiery trial, 
as Protestants formerly were, we shall find their doc- 
trine of assurance will encourage us in suffering for 
the sake of Christ. 

Seventhly, The contrary doctrine which excludeth 
assurance out of the nature of saving faith, bringeth 
forth many evil fruits. It tendeth to bereaye our 
souls of all assurance of our salvation, and solid com- 
fort, which is the life of religion, by placing them 
after sincere universal obedience; whereas, if we 
have them not first, we can never attain to this obe- 
dience, nor to any assurance that dependeth on it, as 
hath been proved. And this, as far as it prevails, 
makes us subject to continual doubtings concerning 
our salvation, and to tormenting fears of wrath, whic 
casteth out true love to God, and can produce no bet- 
ter than slavish hypocritical service. It is one of the 
principal pillars whereby manifold superstitions in 

opery are supported, as their monkish orders, their 
satisfaction for sin by works of penance, bodily mace- 
rations, whippings, pilgrimages, indulgencies, trusting 
on the merits of saints, &c. When once men have 
lost the knowledge of the right way to assure them- 
selves of salvation, they will catch at any straw, to 

avoid drowning in the gulph of despair. 

There is no way to administer any solid comfort to 
the wounded spirits of those that see themselves void 
of holiness, under the wrath and curse of God, dead _ 
in sin, not able so much as to think a good thought, ~ 
You do but increase their terror and anguish, if you — 


bn 
a 


EI tis 


i: id SAY See *~ 


Direct. X. OF SANCTIFICATION, 177 


tell them, they must first get faith and obedience, 
and, when they find they have done that, they may 
rsuade themselves, that God will receive them into 
is grace and favour. Alas! they know that they 
cannot believe nor obey, except God present them 
with his grace and favour. And what if they be even 
at the point of death, struggling with death’s pangs, 
so that they have no time or leisure to get good qua- 
lifications, and examine the goodness of them. You 
must have a more speedy way to comfort such, by 
discovering to them the free promises of salyation to 
the worst of sinners by faith in Christ, and by exhort- 
ing them to apply those promises, and trust on Christ 
confidently for remission of sins, holiness, and glory ; 
assuring ra also, that God will help them to be- 
_ lieve sincerely on Christ, if they desire it with all 
their hearts; and that it is their duty to believe, be- 
cause God commands it. 
Several other evils are occasioned by the same doc- 
' trine. Men are unwilling to know the worst of them- 


. 


selves, and prone to think their qualifications better- 


than they are, that they may avoid despair. Others 

please and content themselves without any assurance 

of their interest in Christ, because they think that it 

is not necessary to salvation, and that but few attain 
_ to it: and in this they shew little love to Christ, or 
_ to their own souls. 

Some foster doubtings of salvation as signs of hu- 
mility, though they will hypocritically complain of 
them. Many mis-spend their time in poring upon 
their own hearts, to find out some evidence of their 
interest in Christ, when they should rather be em- 
ployed in receiving Christ, and walking in him, by a 

confident faith. 

Some are troubled with doubts, whether they 
should call God, Father, and what apprehensions 
_ they should have of him in prayer, and are offended 
at ministers, that, in their public prayers, use any 
expressions that the people cannot join in; as when 


178 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, X. 


they de own God as their God and Father, and Christ as 
_ their Saviour; and, upon the same account, they are 
offended at the public singing of many of David’s 
salms, and avoid partaking of the Lord’s supper, 
ecause they are not satisfied about their interest in 
Christ. 

Though true believers have some assurances of sal- 
vation in saving faith itself, yet it is much weakened 
in many by this contrary doctrine, and assaulted with 
many doubtings; and then other good qualifications 
must needs be low and weak together with it, and so 
obscure, that it is very hard to discern them. How 
hard a thing then will it be for true believers to as- _ 
sure themselves, by the certain knowledge of their 
own sincerity, that they are in a state of grace 
already, which some say is the only assurance of faith? 
Some prescribe such marks and signs to distinguish 
sincerity from hypocrisy, that believers cannot sufhi- 
ciently try themselves by them, except they have 
more knowledge and experience than ordinary. 

Thus many believers wall heayily in the bitterness 
of their Souls, conflicting with fears and doubtings all 
their days, And this is the cause that they have so 
little courage and fervency of spirit in the ways of 
God, and that they so much mind earthly things, and 
are so afraid of sufferings and death: and, if they get 
some assurance by the reflex act of faith, they often 
soon lose it again by sins and temptations. The way 
to avoid those evils, is, to get your assurance, and to 
maintain it, and renew it upon all occasions by the 
direct act of faith, by trusting assuredly on the name 
of the Lord, and staying yourself upon your God, 
when you walk in darkness, and sce no light in any 
of your own qualifications.* I doubt not but the ex- 
perience of many choice Christians will bear witness 
to this truth. 


* Isa, 1, 10. 


F 


(4 


Direct. £98 OF SANCTIFICATION. 179 


DIRECTION XI. 


Endeavour diligently to perform the great work of believing on Christ, 
in a right manner, without any delay, and then also to continue 
and increase in your most holy faith; that so your enjoyment of 
Christ, union and fellowship with him, and all holiness by him, may 
be begun, continued, and increased in you. 


EXPLICATION. 


Havine already discovered to you the-powerful and 
effectual means of a holy practice, my remaining 
work is, to lead you to the actual exercise and im- 
provement of them, for the immediate attainment of 
the end. And I think it may be clearly perceived, 
by the foregoing directions, that faith in Christ is the 
duty with which a holy life is to begin, and by which 
the foundation of all other holy duties is laid in the 
soul. It is before sufficiently proved, that Christ 
himself, with all endowments nacennnd to enable 
us to a holy practice, is received actually into our 
hearts by faith. This is the uniting grace, whereby 
the Spirit of God knitteth the knot of mystical mar- 
riage between Christ and us, and maketh us branches 
of that noble vine ; members of that body, joined to 
that excellent head; living stones of the spiritual 
temple, built upon the precious living corner-stone, 
and sure foundation ; partakers of the bread and drink 
_ that came down from heaven, and giveth life to the 
world, This is the grace whereby we pass from our 
corrupt natural state to a new holy state in Christ, 
also from death in sin to the life of righteousness, and 
whereby we are comforted, that so we may be esta- 
plished in every good word and work. If we put the 
baestion, What must we do, that we may work the 
works of God? Christ resolveth it, that we believe 
on him whom he hath sent.* He putteth us first 
upon the work of believing, which is the work of 
¥ “a J . 


_ * John vi, 28, 29.. 


180 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XI, 


God by way of eminency, the work of works, because 
all other good works proceed from it. 

The rirsr thing in the present direction, is, to put 

ou upon the performance of this great worl: of be- 
eee on Christ, and to guide you therein, For you 
are to consider distinctly four things contained in it. 

First, The first is, You are to make it your diligent 
endeavour to perform the great work of believing on 
Christ. Many make little conscience of this duty. 
It is not known by natural light, as many moral 
duties are, but only by supernatural revelation in the 
gospel, and it is foolishness to the natural man. 
These are sometimes terrified with apprehensions of 
other sins, and will examine themselves concerning 
them ; and, it may be, will write them down, to help 
their memories and devotion. But the great sin of 
not believing in Christ, is seldom thought of in their 
self-examinations, or registered in the large catalogue 
of their sins, And even those who are convinced, 
that believing on Christ is a duty necessary to salva- 
tion, do neglect all diligent endeavours to perform it ; 
either because they account, that it is a motion of the 
heart which may be easily performed at any time, 
without any labour or diligent endeavour ; or, on the 
contrary, because they account it as difficult as all 
the works of the law, and utterly impossible for them 
to perform by their most diligent endeavours, except 
the Spirit of God work it in them by his mighty 
power ; and that therefore it is in vain for them to 
work, until they feel this working of the Spirit in 
their hearts: or because they account it a duty so 
peculiar to the elect, that it would be presumption 
for them to endeavour the performance of it, until 
they know themselves to be elected to eternal life 
through Christ. I shall urge you to a diligent per- 
formance of this duty, notwithstanding all these im- 
pediments, by the following consideration. It is wor- 
thy of our best endeavours, as appeareth by the pre- 
ciousness, excellency, and necessity of it already dis- 
covered, 


NAT es coy J - \ 
Direct. XI. OF SANCTIFICATION, - 181 
If the light of nature was not darkened in the mat- 

ters of salvation, it would shew us, that we cannot of 
ourselves find out the way of salvation ; and would 
condemn those that despise that revelation of the way 
of salvation that God hath given us in the gospel de- 
clared in the holy Scriptures. The great end of 
preaching the gospel, is for the obedience of faith :* 
that so we may be brought to Christ, and all other 
obedience. Yea, the great end of all revealed doc- 
trines in the whole Scripture, is, to make us wise un- 
to salvation by faith which is in Christ Jesus.”+ The 
end of the law given by Moses, was for righteousness 
to eyery one that believeth ;{ and Christ was that 
end for righteousness. ‘The moral law itself was re- 
yealed, in order to our salvation by believing on 
Christ : or else the knowledge of it had nothing avail- 
ed fallen man, that was unable to performit. ‘There- 
fore they that slight the duty of believing, and ac- 
count it foolishness, do thereby slight, despise, and 
_villify the whole counsel of God revealed in the Scrip- 
ture. The law and the gospel, and Christ himself, 
are become of none effect to the salvation of such. 
The only fruit that such an one can attain to, by all 
_,the saving doctrines of the Scripture, is only some 
hypocritical moral duties, and slavish performances, 

_ which will be as filthy rags in the sight of God in 
_ the great day. However many mind not the sin of 
; unbelief in their self-examinations, and write it not 
in their scrolls; yet let them know, that this is the 
most pernicious sin of all? All the sins in their scrolls 
_ would not prevail to their condemnation, yea they 
would not prevail in their conversation, were it not 
for their unbelief. This one sin prevailing, maketh 
it impossible for them to please God in any duty 
-whatsoever.§ If you will not mind this one main 
sin now, God will at last mind you of it with a ven-. 

_ geance; for he that believeth not on the Son, shall not 


5. +2 Tim, iii, 15. $~Rom.x,4.  § Heb. xi, 6. 


182 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XT. 


see life; but the wrath of God abideth on him.* 
The Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven in 
flaming fire, taking vengeance on those that obey not 
the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. 

Secondly, Believing on Christ, is a work that will 
require diligent endeavour and labour for the perfor- 
mance of it. We must labour to enter into that rest, 
lest any man fall by unbelief.t We must shew dili- 
gence to the full assurance of hope to the end, that 
we may he followers of them who through faith and 
patience inherit the promises.§ It is a work that re- 
quireth the exercise of might and power; and there- 
fore we have need to be strengthened with might by 
the Spirit in the inward man, that Christ may dweil 
in our hearts by faith.|| I confess, it is easy, pleasant, 
and delicious in its own nature, because it is a motion 
of the heart, without any cumbersome bodily labour ; 
and it is a taking Christ and his salvation as our own, 
which is very comfortable and delightful ; and the 
soul is carried forth in this by love to Christ and its 
own happiness, which is an affection that maketh 
eyen head works easy and pleasant: yet it is made 
difficult to us, by reason of the opposition that it 
meets with from our own inward corruptions, and 
from satan’s temptations. It isno easy matter to re- 
ceive Christ as our happiness, and free salvation, with 
true confidence and lively affection, when the guilt 
of sin lieth heavily upon the conscience, and the wrath 
of God is manifested by the word and terrible judg- 
ments : especially when we have been long accustom- 
ed to seek salvation by the procurement of our own 
works, and to account the way of salvation by free 
grace, foolish and pernicious ; when our lusts incline 
us strongly to the things of the flesh and the world ; 
when Satan doth his utmost, by his own suggestions, 
and by false teachers, and by worldly allurements 


* John iii, 36. $2 Thess, i, 7 } Heb. iv, 11. 
§ Heb. vi, 11, 12. || Eph, iii, 16; 17. 


‘Direct. XT. OF SANCTIFICATION. 183 


and terrors, to hinder the sincere performance of this 
duty. Many works that are easy in their own na- 
ture, prove difficult for us to perform in our cireum- 
stances. ‘To forgive our enemies, and love them as 
ourselves, is but a motion of the mind, easy to be per- 
formed in its own nature; and yet many that are con- 
vineed of their duty, find it a hard matter to bring 
their hearts to the performance of it. It is but a mo- 
tion of the mind, to cast our care upon God for world- 
ly things ; and rich men may think they can do it 
easily : but poor men that have great families, find it 
a hard matter. That easy comfortable duty which 
Moses exhorteth the Israelites to, when Pharaoh, with 
his chariots and horsemen, overtook them at the Red 
Sea, Fear ye not, stand still, and see the salvation of 
the Lord, which he will shew to you to-day,* was 
not easily performed. The very easiness of some duties 
makes their performance difficult ; as Naaman, the 
Syrian, was hardly brought to wash to be clean, be- 
cause he thought it to be too slight and easy aremedy 
for the cure of his leprosy.t ven in this very case, 
people are offended at the duty of believing on Christ, 
as too slight and easy a remedy to cure the leprosy of 
the soul; they would have some harder thing enjoin- 
ed them, to the attainment of so great an end as this 
everlasting salvation. The performance of all the 
moral law is not accounted work enough for this 
end.{ However easy the work of believing seemeth 
to many, yet common experience hath shewed, that 

_ men are more easily brought to the most burdensome, 
unreasonable, and inhuman observances : as the Jews, 
and Christian Galatians were more easily brought to 

_ take upon their necks the yoke of Moses’s law, which 
none were able to bear.§ The Heathens were more 
easily brought to burn their, sons and their daughters 
in the fire to their gods.|| The Papists are brought 


= 
* Exod. xiv,.13. +2 Kings v, 12, 13, $. Matt. xix, 17, 20, 
fi SS Acta: xv, 10; || Deut. xii, 31. 


ae 


184 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XI. 


more easily to their vows of chastity, and poverty, 
and obedience to the most rigorous rules of monastic 
discipline ; to macerate and torture their bodies with 
fastings, scourgings, and pilgrimages; and to bear all 
the excessive tyranny of the papal hierarchy, in a 
multitude of burdensome, superstitious, and ridieulous 
devotions. They that slight the work of faith for its 
easiness, shew, that they were never yet made sensi- 
ble of innumerable sins, and the terrible curse of the 
law, and wrath of God that they lie under ; and of the 
darkness and vanity of their minds, the corruption 
and hardness of their hearts, and their bondage under 
the power of sin and satan ; and have not been truly 
humbled; without which they cannot believe in a 
right manner, Many sound believers have found by 
experience, that it hath been a very hard matter to 
bring their hearts to the duty of believing ; it hath 
cost them vigorous struggles and sharp conflicts with 
their own corruptions, and satan’s temptations. It 
is so difficult a work, that we cannot perform it with- 
out the mighty working of the Spirit of God in our 
hearts, who only can make it to be absolutely easy to 
us, and doth make it easy, or suffer it to be difficult, 
according as he is pleased to communicate his grace 
in various degrees unto our souls. 

Thirdly, Though we cannot possibly perform this 
great work in a right manner, until the Spirit of God 
work faith in our hearts by his mighty power; yet it 
is necessary that we should endeavour it; and that be- 
fore we can find the Spirit of God working faith 
effectually in us, or giving strength to believe. We 
can perform no holy duty acceptably, except the 
Spirit of God work it in us; and yet we are not 
hereby excused from working ourselves, but we are 
the rather stirred up to the greater diligence: Work 
out your salvation with fear and trembling; for it is 
God that worketh in you both to will and to do of — 
his good pleasure.* The way wherchy the Spirit 

* Phil. ii, 12, 13. a 


; Direct. XI. OF SANCTIFICATION, 185 


works faith in the elect, is, by stirring them up to 
endeayour to believe. And this is a way suitable to 
the means that the Spirit useth; i, e. the exhortation, 
commands, and invitations of the gospel: which 
would be of no force, if we were not to obey him, 
until we find faith already wrought in us. Neither 
can we possibly find, that the spirit of God doth 
effectually work faith, or give strength to believe, 
until we act it; for which end, all inward graces, as 
well as all other inward habits, are disc¢érned by their 
acts, as seed in the ground by its springing. We can- 
not see any such thing as love to God or man in our 
hearts before we act it. Children know not their 
ability to stand upon their feet, until they have made 
trial, by endeavouring so to do; so we know not our 
spiritual strength, until we have learned by experience 
from the use and exercise of it. Neither can we 
know, or assure ourselves absolutely, that the Spirit 
of God will give us strength to believe, before we act 
faith; for such a knowledge and assurance, if it be 
right, is saving faith itself in part; and whosoever 
trusteth on Christ assuredly for strength to believe 
by his Spirit, doth, in effect, trust on Christ for his 
own salvation, which is inseparably joined with the 
grace of saving faith. Though the Spirit worketh 
_ our duties in us by faith: yet he worketh faith in us 
_ immediately by hearing, knowing, and understanding 
the word: Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by 
the word of God.* And in the word he maketh no 
absolute promise or declaration, that he will work 
faith in this or that unbelieving heart, or that he will 
give strength to believe to any one in particular, 
or begin the work of believing in Christ; for faith 
itself is the first grace whereby we have a particular 
_ interest in any saving promise. It is a thing hidden 
- in the secret council and purpose of God concerning 
a us, whether he will give us his Spirit and saving faith, 


Ba aa Pont * Rom::x,0'7: 
} i (a\7 y\ 


EJ Oe CaN aE 


186 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XT, 


until our election be discovered by our believing 
actually. Therefore, as soon as we know the duty 
of believing, we are to apply ourselves immediately 
to the vigorous performance of the duty, and in so 
doing, we shall find that the spirit of Christ hath 
strengthened us to believe, though we know not cer- 
tainly, that he will do it before-hand.. The Spirit 
cometh indiscernably upon the -elect to work faith 
within them; like the wind that bloweth where it 
lists, and none knoweth whence it cometh, and 
whither it goeth, but only we hear the sound of it, 
and thereby know it when it is past and gone.* We. 
must therefore begin the work, before we know that 
the Spirit doth or will work in us savingly: and we 
shall be willing to set upon the work if we be.Christ’s 
people; for Thy people shall be willing in the day of 
thy power.t It is enough that God discovereth to us 
before-hand in the gospel what faith is, and the ground 
we have to believe on Christ for our own salvation ; and 
that God requireth this duty of us, and will help us 
in the performance of it, if we apply ourselves heartily 
thereunto: Fear not, | command thee to be strong, 
and of good courage.{ Arise and be doing, and the 
Lord will be with thee.§ Therefore whoso receiveth 
this gospel-discovery as the word of God in hearty 
love, is taught by the Spirit, and will certainly come 
to Christ by believing.|| Every one that receiveth it 
not, despiseth God, maketh him a liar, and deserveth 
justly to perish for his unbelief. 

Fourthly, Though the Spirit worketh saving faith 
only in the elect, and others believe not, because they 
are not of Christ’s sheep ;{] and on that account it is 
called the faith of God’s elect ; | yet all that hear the 
gospel, are obliged to the duty of believing, as well as 
to all the duties of the moral law, and that.before they 
know their own particular election: and they are 


*) John iii, 8. + Psa, cx, 3. t Josh. i,9, | §1 Chron. xxii, 16, 
|| John vi, 45. q John x, 26. Wael Sn ks ‘ 


— Direct, XI. OF SANCTIFICATION, 187 


eo 


liable to condemnation for unbelief, as well as for an 
other sin; He that believeth not is condemned al- 
ready, because he hath not believed on the name of 
the only begotten Son of God.* The apostle Paul 
sheweth, that the elect Israelites obtained salvation, 
and the rest that were not elected, were blinded; and 
yet even these were broken off from the good olive- 
tree, because of their unbelief.t We cannot have 
a certain knowledge of our election to eternal life 
before we do believe; it is a thing hidden in the 
unsearchable counsel of God, until it be manifest by 
- our effectual calling and believing on Christ. The 
apostle knew the election of the Thessalonians, by 
finding the evidence of their faith, that the gospel 
came to them, not in word only, but also in power, 
and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance; and 
_ that they had received the word in much afiliction, 
with joy in the Holy Ghost.{ We are to see our 
calling, if would find out that God hath chosen us.§ 
Therefore we must believe on Christ before we know 
our election, or else we shall never know it, and shall 
_ never believe. And it is no presumption for us to trust 
- confidently on Christ for everlasting life, before we 
have any good evidence of our election; because God, 
_ that cannot lie, hath made a general promise, That 
_ whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed, 
without making the least difference among them that 
_ perform this duty.|| The promise is as firm, and sure 
to be fulfilled, as any of God’s decrees and purposes ; 
and therefore it is a good and sufficient ground for 
_ our confidence. It is certain, that all that the Father 
_ hath given to Christ by the decree of eternal election, 
shall come to Christ : ‘and it is as really certain, that 
_ ‘Christ will in no wise cast) out any that cometh to 
him, whosoever he be. And we need not fear that 
we shall infringe God’s decree of election, by beliey- 


- 


John ili, 18, | Rom. xi, 7,20. “$1 Thess. i, 4, 5, 6. 
» i, 26, 27. || Rom, x, 11,12. John vi, 37. 
} * 


188 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XI. 


ing on Christ confidently for our salvation, before 
we know what God hath decreed concerning us ; for, 
if we believe, we shall at last be found among the 
elect: and, if we refuse to believe, we shall thereby 
willfully sort ourselves among the reprobate, that 
stumble at the word, being disobedient whereunto 
also they are appointed.* I shall add further, that 
though we have no evidence of our particular election 
before we believe, yet we are to trust on Christ as- 
suredly to make it evident to us, by giving us that 
salvation which is the peculiar portion of the elect 
only. All spiritual saving blessings, wherewith God 
blesseth his people in Christ, are the peculiar portion 
of them whom God hath chosen in Christ before the 
foundation of the world,+ yet we must necessarily 
trust on Christ for those saving blessings or have none 
at all. We are to pray in faith, nothing doubting, 
that God will remember us with the favour that he 
beareth to his people ; that we may see the good of 
his chosen, and glory with his inheritance.{ There- 
fore we are to trust assuredly on God that he will 
deal with us as his chosen people. Thus it appeareth, — 
that it is not presumption, but your bounden duty, 
to apply yourselves to the great work of believing on 
Christ for salvation, without questioning at all be- 
forehand, whether you are elected or no: Secret 
things belong to God, but those things that are re- 
vealed, belong unto us, that we may do them.$ 

The srconp thing directed to is, that you should 
endeavour for a right manner of performing this duty. 
This-is a point of great concernment, because the 
want of it will render your faith ineffectual to sancti- 
fication and salvation. The great duty of love, which 
is the end of the law, and the principal fruit of sanc- 
tification, must flow from faith unfeigned.|| There 
is a feigned faith, that doth not really receive Christ 


* | Peter ii, 8. t Eph. i, 3, 4. $ Psal. evi, 4, 5. 
§ Deut. xxix, 29. }) 1 Tim. i, 5, 


rect x7, ' OF SANCTIFICATION, 189 


into the heart, and will not produce love, or any true 
_ obedience ; such as Simon Magus had ;* for, notwith- 
standing his faith, he was in the gall of bitterness, 
and in the bond of iniquity ; and such as those Jews 
had, to whom Christ would not commit himself, who 
did not confess him, lest they should be put out of 
the synagogue;t and such as the apostle James 
speaks of, “ What doth it profit you, my brethren, if 
aman say he hath faith, and have not works? Can 
that faith save him? The devils also believe and 
tremble.”{ Take heed therefore, lest you deceive 
your souls with a counterfeit faith, instead of the 
precious faith of God’s elect. The way to distinguish 
the one from the other is, by considering well what 
is the right manner of that believing which is effec- 
tual to salyation. Hypocrites may perform the same 
works for the matter, with true saints ; but they are 
defective in the manner of performance, wherein the 
excelleney of the work doth chiefly consist. One 
_ great reason why many seek to enter in at the strait 
_ gate and are not able,§ is, because they are ignorant 
and defective in the right manner of acting this faith 
whereby they are to enter. Now I confess, that God 

_ only is able to guide us effectually in the right way 
of believing. And we have this great consolation, 

_ when we see our own folly and proneness to mistake 
our way, that, if we heartily desire and endeavour to 
believe on Christ aright, we may confidently trust on 
_ Christ to guide us. God hath promised, that the 
way-faring men, though fools, shall not err in the 
way of holiness ; and that he will teach sinners in the 
ay; “The meek will he guide in judgment, and 
ie meek will he teach his way ;’’|| and he command- 
them that lack wisdom, to ask it of God in faith, 
hing doubting. But, however, we are to know, 
God guideth us only according to the rule of his 


3/23. + John ii, 23, and xii, 42. t James ii, 14, 19. 
2. || Psa. xxv, 8,9. G James i, 5, 6. 


Ra afc. Gp: 


190 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY. Direct. XI. 


- 


word : and we must endeavour to learn the right way 
of believing out of the word, or else we are not able 
so much as to trust rightly on God for guidance and 
direction in this great work. 'To help you herein, I 
have given you before, in this treatise, a description 
of saving faith ; and have shewed, that it containeth 
two acts in it; the one is, believing the truth of the 
gospel; the other is, believing on Christ as revealed 
and freely promised to us in the gospel for all his 
salvation. Now your great endeavour must be to 
perform both these acts in a right manner; as I shall 
shew concerning each of them in particular. 

In the first place, you are highly concerned to 
endeavour for a right belief of the truth of the gospel 
of Christ: that so you may be well furnished, dis- 
posed, and encouraged to believe on Christ as revealed 
and promised in the gospel. Hereby you are to 
remove all discomfortable thoughts and objections of 
satan and your own conscience, and to overcome all 
corrupt inclinations that hinder a cheerful embracing 
of Christ and his salvation. It is found by experience, 
that, when any fail in the second act of faith, the 
reason of the failing is commonly some defect in this 
first act. There is some false imagination or other in 
them, contrary to the belief of the truth of the gospel ; 
which is a strong hold of sin and satan that must be 

ulled down before they can receive Christ into their 
hearts by believing on ioe If they knew the name 
of Christ as he is discovered in the gospel, and judged 
aright of the truth and excellency of it, they would 
not fail to put their trust in him. And we are in 
great danger of entertaining such false imaginations, 
and to account many truths of the gospel strange 
paradoxes, yea, foolish and pernicious, because of our 
ignorance, self-conceitedness, guilty consciences, cor- 
rupt affections, and manifold errors, wherewith our 
judgments are prepossessed in matters of salvation ; 
and because satan laboureth to beguile us, as he did ' 
Eve, through his subtilty, to corrupt our minds from 


——a 


, ’ ¥ 


: Direct. XI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 191 


the simplicity of the gospel that isin Christ.* I shall 
therefore give you some particular instructions that 
are of greater moment, to prevent such defects as we 
are most liable to, in the first act of our faith. 
Firstly, You must believe with a full persuasion, that 
you are a child of wrath by nature, as well as others ; 
fallen from God by the sin of the first Adam; dead 
in trespasses and sins; subject to the curse of the law, 
of God, and to the power of satan, and to insupport- 
able misery to all eternity ;.and that you cannot pos- 
sibly procure your reconciliation with God, or any 
spiritual life and strength to do any good work, by 
any endeavouring to get salvation according to the 
terms of the legal covenant; and that you cannot 
find any way to escape out of this sinful and miser- 
able condition by your own reason and understand- 
ing, without supernatural revelation, nor be freed 
from it, except by that infinite power that raiseth the 
dead. We must not be afraid, as some are, to know 
our own vileness and sinfulness, neither must we be 
willing to think ourselves better than we are ; but must 
be heartily desirous and glad to know the worst of 
our own condition ; yea, when we have found out the 
worst that we can of ourselves, we must be willing to 
believe, that our hearts are deceitful, and desperately 
wicked, beyond all that we can know and find out.t 
This is all necessary to work in us true humiliation, 
self-despair, and self-loathing, that we may highly 
esteem, and earnestly. seek the salvation of Christ, as 
the one thing necessary. It maketh us sick of sin, 
and sensible of our need of the great Physician, and 
willing to be ordered according to any of his preserip- 
tions, whatsoever we suffer, rather than to follow our 
own wisdom.t It was for want of this humiliation 
that the Scribes and Pharisees were not so forward to 
enter into the kingdom of heaven as the publicans 
_and harlots.§ 


*2Cor.xi,3. tJer.xvii,9. tMatt.ix,J2.  § Mattexxi. 31. 
mre t is, \\ 


Se ; 
192 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, XI. 


- Secondly, You are to believe assuredly, that there is 
no way to be saved, without receiving ail the saving 
benefits of Christ, his Spirit as well as his merits, sanc- 
tification as well as remission of sins by faith. It is 
the ruin of many souls that they trust in Christ for 
remission of sins, without any regard to holiness; 
whereas these two benefits are inseparably: joined in 
Christ, so that none are freed from condemnation by 
Christ, but those that are enabled to walk holily, - 
that is, not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.* i 
is also the ruin of souls, to seek only the remission of 
sins by faith in Christ, and holiness by our endea- 
vours, according to the terms of the law; whereas we 
can never live to God in holiness, except we be dead 
to the law, and live only by Christ living in us by 
faith. That faith which receiveth not holiness as well 
as remission of sins from Christ, will never sanctify 
US; oe therefore it will never bring us to heavenly 
lory. 
e Thirdly, You are to be fully persuaded of the all-suf- 
ficiency of Christ for the salvation of yourself, and all 
that believe on him, that, his blood cleanseth from all — 
sin.{ Though our sins be never so great and horrible, _ 
and continued in never so long, yet he is able to de- 
liver us from the body of death, and mortify our cor- _ 
ruptions, be they ever so strong. We find in Serip- 
ture that abominable wicked persons have been saved 
by him, idolaters, adulterers, effeminate, covetous, / 
drunkards, extortioners, &c.,§ such as have sinned, 
against the light of nature as the heathen, and the 
light of Scripture as the Jews; such as have denied 
Christ as Peter, and persecuted and blasphemed him ~ 
as Paul. Many that have fallen into great sins are 
ruined for ever, because they do not account the grace 
of Christ sufficient for their pardon and sanctification : 
when they think they are gone, and past all hope of © 
recovery, that their sins are upon them, and they pin 


* Rom viii, 1. + Heb. xii, 14, t John i, 7. 


Direct. XI. OF SANCTIFICATION, 193 


away in them, how shall they live?* This despair 
works secretly in many souls, without much trouble 
and horror, and maketh them careless of their souls 
and true religion. The devil fills some with horrid, 
filthy, blasphemous thoughts, on purpose that the 
may think their sins too great to be forgiven; though 
commonly such thoughts are the least of the sins of 
those that are pestered with them, and rather the 
devil’s sins than theirs, because they are hurried into 
them sore against their wills; but, if their hearts be 
somewhat polluted with them, Christ  testifieth, 
“that all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be for- 
iven, except the blasphemy against the Holy 
host.”+ And as for those that are guilty of blas- 
phemy against the Holy Ghost, the reason why the 
are never forgiven, is not because of any want of sub. 
ficiency in the blood of Christ, or in the pardoning 
mercy of God; but because they never repent of that 
sin, and never seck to God for mercy through Christ, 
but continue obstinate until death; for the Scripture 
testifieth, that it is impossible to renew them again 
unto repentance,| so that the merits of Christ are suf- 
ficient for all that seek to him for mercy by believing. 
There are others that despair of ever getting any vic- 
tory over their lusts, because they have formerly 
made many vows and resolutions, and have used 
many vigorous endeavours against them in vain. 
‘Such are to persuade themselves, that the grace of 
‘Christ is sufficient for them, when all other means 
haye failed; as the woman that had the issue of blood, 
and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse by 
any remedies that physicians could describe, yet per- 
guaded herself that, if she might but touch the clothes . 
of Christ, she would be whole.§ Those that despair 
reason of the greatness of their guilt and corrup- 
, do greatly dishonour and undervalue the grace 
whe " ‘ -« 


B xiii, 20. +t Matt. xii, 31. t Gi a Ge of 


4 


Su ily as oT 


Fibs 


FS ge a ee 


194 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, XT. 


of God, his infinite mercy, and the infinite merits of 
Christ’s blood, and power of his Spirit, and deserve 
to perish with Cain and Judas, Abundance of people 
that give up themselves to all licentiousness in this 
wicked generation, lie under secret despair; which 
maketh them so desperate in swearing, blaspheming, 
whoring, drunkenness, and all manner of wickedness. 
However horrid and heinous soever our sins and cor- 
ruptions haye been, we should learn to account them 
a small matter in comparison to the grace of Christ, 
who is God as well as man, and offered himself, by 
the eternal Spirit, as a sacrifice of an infinite value, 
for our salvation; and can create us anew as easily as 
he created the world by a word speaking. 

Fourthly, Youare to be fully persuaded of the truth 
of the general free promise in your own particular case, 
that if you believe on Christ sincerely, you shall have 
everlasting life, as well as any other in the world, 
without performing any condition of works to procure 
an interest in Christ: for the promise is universal, 
“ Whosoever believeth on him shall not be asham- 
ed,”’* without any exception. And if God exclude 
you not, you must not exclude yourselves; but rather 
conclude peremptorily, that, how vile, wicked, and 
unworthy soever you be, yet, if you come, you shall 
be accepted as well as any other in the world. You 
are to believe that great article of the creed, the re- 
mission of sins, in your own case, when you are prin- 
cipally concerned, or else it will little profit you, to 
believe it in the case of others. This is that which 
hinders many broken wounded spirits from coming to 
the great physician, when they are convinced of the 
abominable filthiness of their hearts, that they are 
dead in sin, without the least spark of true grace and - 
holiness in them. They think that it isin vain for 
such as they are, to trust on Christ for salvation ; and 
that Christ will never save such as they are. Why 


: 


* Rom, ix, 33. 


Direct. XI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 195 


so? they can be but lost creatures at worst; and 
Christ came to seek and save those that are lost. If 
they who are dead in sin, cannot be sayed, then all 
must despair and perish ; for none have any spiritual 
life, until they receive it by believing on Christ. 
Some think themselves to be worse than any others, | 
and that none have such wicked hearts as they ; and : 
though others be accepted, yet they shall be rejected. 
But they should know, that Christ came to save the 
chief of sinners;* and that the design of God is, to 
shew the exceeding riches of his grace in our salya- Y 
tion ;f which is most glorified by pardoning the 
greatest sinners. And itis but our ignorance, to think 
ourselves like nobody : for all others, as well as we, — ; 
are naturally dead in trespasses and sins; their mind 
is enmity to God, and is not subject to his law, 
nor indeed can be ;{ and every imagination of the 
thoughts of their hearts is only evil, and continuall 
80 ;§ they have all the same corrupt fountain of all 
abominations in their hearts, though they may have 
exceeded many others in several actual sins. Others 
think that they haye out-stayed their time, and there- 
fore now they should find no place for repentance, 
though they should seek it carefully with tears,|| 
But, behold now is the accepted time ; behold now is 
the day of salvation,{[ even as long as God calleth 
upon you by the gospel. And although Esau was re- 
jected, who sought rather the earthly than the spirit- ; 
ual blessings of the birthright, yet they shall not be 
rejected, that seek the enjoyment of Christ, and his 
i aiion, as their only happiness. If you come into ys 
Christ’s vineyard at the eleventh hour of the day, ' : 


SE ee ee eee eee 


you shall have your penny, as well as those that come 
early in the morning ; because the reward is of grace, 
and not of merit.** And here you must be sure to 
believe steadfastly, that Christ and all his salvation 


—*) Tim. i, 15. t Eph. ij, 7. t Rom, viii, 7. § Gen. vi, 5. 
Bb. xii, 17. { 2 Car. vi, 2. x¥ Matt. xx, 9, 10. 
a oe Lee ’ : 


etre ¥ 


\ Nie 


4 = 


196 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XI. 


is bestowed as a free-gift upon those that do not work 
to procure any right or title to him, or meetness or 
worthiness to receive him, but only believe on him 
that justifieth the engodly.* If you put any condi- 
tion of works or good qualifications between your- 
selves and Christ, it will be a partitionwall which you 
can never climb over, 

Fifthly, Youare to believeassuredly, that it is the will 
of God you should believe in Christ, and have eternal 
life by him, as well as any other; and that your be- 
lieving is a duty very acceptable to God ; and that he 
will help you, as well as any other, in this-work, be- 
cause he calleth and commandeth you, by the gospel, 
to believe in Christ. This maketh us to set cheerfully 
upon the work of believing; as when Jesus com- 
manded the blind man to be called, they said unto 
him, “Be of good comfort, rise; he calleth thee.” + 
A command of Christ made Peter to walk upon the 
water.{ And here we are not to meddle with God’s 
secret of predestination, or the purpose of his will to 
give the grace of faith to some rather than to others ; 
but only with his revealed will, in his gracious invi- 
tation and commands, by which we are required to 
‘believe on Christ. This will of God is confirmed b 
his oath, “As I live, saith the Lord God, I have no 
pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the 
wicked turn from his way, and live: turn ye, turn ye~ 
from your evil ways; for why will ye die, O house of 
Tsvacl?”§ Christ testifieth, that “he would often 
have gathered the children of Jerusalem, even as a 
hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and they 
would not.”’|| And the apostle Paul testifieth, that 
God will have all men to be saved, &c.4 You are to 
reject and abandon all thoughts that are contrary to 
this persuasion, "What if few be saved? Thy salva- 
tion will not make the number too great; for few 


* Rom. iv, 5. + Mark x, 49.- t Matt. xiv, 29. 
§ Ezek, xxxiii, 11. |) Matt, xxifi, 37. 1 Tim, ii, 4. 


OF SANCTIFICATION, 


- will follow thee in the duty of believing. What, if 
the wrath of God be revealed from heaven against 
thee in many terrible judgments, and the word, and 
thine own conscience, condemn thee, and Christ seems 
to reckon thee no better than a dog, as he did the 
woman of Canaan?* ‘Thou art to make a good in- 
terpretation of all these things, that the end of them 
is, to drive thee to Christ, as this was the end of the 
curses of the law, and all the terrible dispensations of 
them.t If a prophet, or angel from, heaven, were 
sent of God, on purpose to-declare, that the sentence 
of everlasting damnation is declared against thee ; it 
would be thy duty to believe, that God sent him to 1 
give thee timely warning, for this very end, that thou 
mightest believe, and turn to God by faith and re- 
entance. Jeremiah prophesied against the Jews, 4 
that God would pluck them up, pull them down, and ; 
destroy them for their sins; yet he himself taught d 
them, “if they turned from their evil ways, God s 
~ would repent of the evil.”{ Jonah preached nothin F 
but certain destruction to Nineveh, to be execute 
upon them within forty days ;§ yet the intent of that E 
_ terrible message was, that those heathenish people 1 
might escape destruction by repentance. The most 
absolute and peremptory denunciations of divine yen- 
geance against us, while we are in this world, must 
_ be always understood with a secret reserve of salva- 
tion for us, upon our faith and repentance. And we 
are to account, that the reason why God doth so ter- 
_ ribly denounce his judgments against us by his word, 
38, that we may escape them, by flying for refuge to 
_ his free mercy in Christ. Take heed of fostering any 
thoughts, that God hath absolutely decreed to shew 
“no saving mercy to you, or that you have already 
mitted the unpardonable sin, or that it is in vain 
ou to attempt the work of believing, because 
vill not help you in it. If such thoughts prevail 


——_—- 


.—————— ee Se 


ay 


‘t Jer, xviii, 7, 8, 11. 


gh 


§ Jonah iil, sony 


Re 


198 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XT. 


in your hearts, they will do you more hurt than the 
most blasphemons thoughts that terrify you, or any 
of the grossest abominations that ever you were guilty 
of; because they obstruct your believing on Christ 
for salvation. “The Spirit and the bride say, Come. 
Christ saith, whosoever will, let him take the water 
of life freely.”* Therefore we are to abandon all 
thoughts that hinder our coming to Christ, as very 
sinful and pernicious, arising in us from our own cor- 
ruptions, and satan’s delusions, and utterly opposite 
to the mind of Christ, and teachings of the Spirit. 
And what ground can we have to entertain such un- 
believing thoughts? Hath God made us of his privy 
council, that we should be able to know that God 
hath decreed us to damnation, before it be manifest 
by our final unbelief and impenitence? As for the 
unpardonable sin, it consisteth in renouncing the way 
of salvation by Christ with the whole heart, after we 
have attained to the knowledge of it, and are con- 
vinced of the truth of it by the gospel. It is the sin 
that the Christian Hebrews would have been guilty 
of, if they had revolted from Christianity to the re- 
ligion of the unbelieving Jews, that accounted Christ 
to be an imposter, and were most rancorous persecu- 
tors of him and his ways.t They that have commit- 
ted that sin, continue implacable, malicious enemies 
to Christ and his ways to the end, without any re- 
pentance. Therefore, if you can but find, that you 
desire seriously to get an interest in Christ, and to be 
better Christians than you are; if you be troubled and 
grieved, that your hearts and lives are so wicked, and 
that you want faith, love, and true obedience; yea, if 
your hearts be not maliciously bent to persecute the 
gospel, and prefer atheism, licentiousness, or any false 
religion before it ; you have no cause to suspect your- 
selves to be guilty of this unpardonable sin. 

Stathly, Add to all these a full persuasion of the in- 


* Rey. xxii, 17. } Heb. vi, 4, 5. — 


> eer 


Bs 
= 


7 


“Direct. Al, OF SANCTIFICATION. 199 


comparable glorious excellency of Christ, and of the 
way of salvation by him. You are to esteem the en- 
joyment of Christ as the only salvation and true hap- 
piness, and such an happiness as hath in it unsearch- 
able riches of glory, and will make our cup to run 
over with exceeding abundance of peace, and joy, and 
glory, to all eternity. We must account all things 
but loss, for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ 
Jesus our Lord.* Such a persuasion as this, will 
allure and incline your wills and affections to choose 
and embrace Christ as the chief good, and never to 
rest satisfied without the enjoyment of him; and to 
reject every thing that stands in competition with 
him, or the enjoyment of him, Christ is precious in 
the esteem of all true believers} Their high esteem 
of his incomparable preciousness and excellency, in- 
duceth them to sell all, that they may buy this pearl 
of great price.{ This maketh them to say, “ Lord, 
evermore give us this bread, that cometh down from 
heaven, and giveth life to the world. Lord, to whom 
shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life.§ 
Because of the savour of his good ointments, his name 
is as ointment poured forth ; therefore do the virgins 
love him.’’|| They are sick of love to him, because 
he is, in their eyes, the chiefest among ten thousand. 
As the glory of God that appeared in the wonderful 
beauty of the temple, and in the wisdom and glory of 
Solomon, drew worshippers to God from the utmost 

rts of the earth : so the unparalleled excellence of 
Christ, which was prefigured by the glory of Solomon 
and the temple, doth more powerfully draw believers 
in the gospel-days, The devil, who is the god of this 
world, knows how necessary it is for our salvation, to 
discern all the glory and excellency of Christ ; and 
therefore, where the gospel is preached, he maketh it his 
great work to eclipse the glory of Christ in the minis- 


5. * Phil, 1H, 8. t1 Pet. ii, 7. t Matt. xiii, 46, 
_ § John vi, 33, 34, 68. || Song i, 3. »  ¥ Song v, 8, 10. 
Oar ve =H : Gs pels = 


~~ 


Se > cae r I : 
200 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, XI. 


try, and to blind the minds of the people, lest the 
light of the glorious gospel of Christ should shine un- 
to them.* One that is convinced of the truth of the 
gospel, may be averse to the embracing of it, until he 
see also the goodness of it, that Christ is altogether 
lovely and excellent. 

I come now to the second principal act of faith, 
whereby Christ himself, and his Spirit, and all his 
saving benefits, are actually received into the heart ; 
which is, believing on Christ, as revealed and freely 
promised to us in the gospel, for all his salvation. 
The Spirit of God doth habitually dispose and incline 
our hearts to a right performance of this aet, by ena- 
bling us to perform the first act, according to the for- 
mer instructions, by believing assuredly those great 
things of the gospel whereby we are delivered into a 
form of doctrine ;+ which we are to obey from our 
hearts, and to follow as our pattern, in the manner of 
our acting faith in Christ for salvation. Therefore I 
need only exhort you briefly to act your faith in 
Christ, according to that form and pattern, in which 
we have been already so largely instructed. You are 
to believe in Christ as alone sufficient, and all-sufficient 
for your happiness and salvation; despairing alto- 
gether of any attainment of happiness by your own 
wisdom, strength, works of righteousness, or any 
fleshly worldly confidences whatever, We must be 
as dead people to all other confidences, and account 
them to be loss for Christ, according to the example 
of the blessed apostle We must not be grieved, 


that we have nothing to trust upon besides Christ for 


our salvation; but rather, we are to rejoice, that we 
need nothing else, and that we have a sure foundation 
to rely upon, incomparably better than any other 
that can be imagined. And we must resolve to cast 
the burden of our souls wholly on Christ, and to seelx 
salvation no other way, whatsoever becomes of us, — 


#2 Cor. iv, 4. + Rom. vi, 17. f Phil, 4i,3, 7,8 


oP 


irect, XI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 201 
If the cripple lay not the whole weight of his body 
upon a strong staff, but part of it on a rotten one, 
he is like to receive a fall. Ifthe swimmer will not 
commit his body wholly to the water to bear him up, 
but catch at weeds, or struggle to feel out ground, he 
may sink to the bottom. Christ will be all our sal- 
vation, or nothing. If we seek to be saved any other 
way, as the Galatians did by circumcision, Christ will 
profit us nothing.* 
You are also to receive Christ merely as a free gift 
given to the chief of sinners; resolving, that you will 
not perform any conditions to procure yourselves a 
right and title to him ; but that you will come to him 
as a lost sinner, an ungodly creature, trusting on him 
that justifieth the ungodly ; and that you will buy 
him without money, and without any price whatso- 
ever.f Look not on your own faith or love, or any 
good qualifications in yourselves, as the ground of 
your trusting in Christ, but only to the free grace 
and loving-kindness of God in Christ : “ How excel- 
__ lent is thy loving-kindness, O God! therefore the chil- 
dren of men put their trust under the shadow of thy 
wings;”{ For if you make your faith, love, or good 
ualifications, to be your first and principal founda- 
tion, and you build Christ upon them instead of build- 
ing all upon Christ, you invert the order of the gos- 
_ pel, and Christ will profit you nothing. ‘ 
Another thing to be observed diligently is, that you 
must come to Christ for a new holy heart and life, 
and all things necessary thereunto, as well as for de- 
: liverance from the wrath of God, and the torments of 
hell. You must also come to him with an ardent love 
and affection to him, and esteem him better than a 
' thousand worlds, and the only excellent portion, 
loathing and abhorring yourself asa vile, sinful, and 
miserable creature, and accounting all things dung 
n comparison of his excellency; that you may be 


fare Fo 


202 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, XI. 


able to say from the bottom of your heart, “ Whom 
have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon 
earth that J desire besides thee,””* 

Lastly, You must endeavour to draw near with full 
assurance of faith ;+ trusting on Christ confidently for 
your own particular salvation, upon the account of 
that general promise that whosoever believeth on Christ 
shall not be ashamed.{ You must check yourself for 
all doubtings, fears, staggerings, concerning your own 
salvation by Christ, saying with the Psalmist, “Why 
art thou cast down, O my soul,” &c.§ 

The rurrp thing contained in this direction, is, the 
avoiding all delay in the performance of this great 
work of believing on Christ. Until we haye per- 
formed it, we continue under the power of sin and 
satan, and under the wrath of God; and there is no- 
thing between hell and us, besides the breath of our 
nostrils. It is dangerous for Lot to linger in Sodom, 
lest fire and brimstone come down from heaven upon 
him, The man-slayer must fly with all haste to the 
city of refuge, lest the avenger of blood pursue him, 
while the heart is hot, and slay him.|| We should 
make haste, and not delay, to keep God’s command- 
ments,{ and fly for refuge to the hope set before us.** 
And God commandeth us to fly thus by faith, with- 
out which it is impossible to please God in other du- 
ties. The work is of such a nature, that it may be 
performed as soon as you hear the gospel. “ As soon 
as they hear of me they shall obey me.” t+ “Assoon 
ag Zion travaileth, she brought forth her children.” ++ 
We have many examples of those that received the 
word by faith at the first hearing of it. Three thou- 
sand were added to the church on the very same day 
wherein Peter first published the gospelinJd erusalem.§§ 


* Psal. Ixxili, 25. + Heb. x, 22. { Rom. ix, 33. 
§ Psal. xliii, 11. }| Deut. xix, 5, 6. 4] Psal. cxix, 60. 
** Heb. vi, 18. tt Psal. xviii, 44. tt Isa, xvi, 8. 


§$ Acts ii, 41. 


_. Direct. XT. “OF SANCTIFICATION. ‘ 268 


So many Jews and Gentiles were converted at the 
first hearing of the apostle Paul at Antioch.* The 
jailor and all his house believed, and were baptized, 
the same night wherein Paul first preached to them.+ 
The tet came at first to the Thessalonians, not in 
word only, but in power, and in the Holy Ghost.t If 
God open the hearts of his people to attend diligently, 
they may be instructed in the knowledge of the gos- 
pel by one brief sermon, sufficiently to begin the prac- 
tice of saving faith. And, when they know their 
duty, God requireth immediate performance, without 
allowing us the least respite in the state of unbelief. 
When satan cannot prevail with people to reject 
wholly the duty of believing, his next attempt for the 
ruin of our souls is to prevail with them at least to 
delay and shift off the performance of it from time to 
time, by several false reasonings and imaginations 
which he putteth into their minds. The most igno- 
rant and sensual are easily prevailed with to defer this 
duty, until they have taken their fill of the pleasures, 
profits, and honours of this world, and are summoned 
to prepare for another world by infirmities, age, sick- 
ness; praying and hoping that a large time of repen- 
tance will be granted unto them before they die. But 
such delays shew that they are really unwilling to 
repent and believe, until they are forced by necessity, 
and that they prefer the pleasures, profits, and hon- 
ours of the world, above God, and Christ, and their 
own souls. Thus they unfit themselves more and 
more for this great duty, by their customary walking 
in sin, and by mis-spending the precious time of their 
health and strength, which is most meet for the per- 
_ formance of this great work. They highly provoke 
_ God never to give them time or grace to repent here- 
after. Others imagine that, after they have heard the 
_ gospel of salvation by Christ, they may lawfully defer 
_ the believing of it, until they have sufficiently exa- 


eee 


£1 Thess. {, 5, 


ovata 


204 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XT. 


mined the truth of some other different doctrine, or 
until God be pleased to afford them some other means 
to assure them fully of the truth of the gospel. ‘Thus 
they are called seekers, mis-spend the day of grace, 
ever learning, but never coming to the knowledge of 
the truth.* But the truth of the gospel doth so 
clearly evidence itself by its own light, that if people 
do not wilfully shut their eyes, or blind themselves 
by their own pride, and love of their lusts, they would 
easily perceive that it is the truth of God, because the 
image of his grace, merey, power, justice and holiness, 
appears manifestly engraven upon it. It is a sign 
people are proud when they consent not to the words 
of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is 
according to godliness.t If they were humble, and 
sincerely inclined to do the will of God, they would 
know whether the doctrine be of God or no:} they 
would quickly be persuaded of the truth by Moses 
and the prophets, Christ and the apostles, spoken to 
them in Scripture. And, if they will not hear them, 
neither will they be persuaded though one rose from 
the dead ; or whatever other miracle be wrought, to 
confirm the divine authority of the gospel.§ Another 
sort of people there are, that delay the great work of 
believing, to the ruin of their souls, resting in an at~ 
tendance upon the outward means of grace and salya- 
tion, instead of any endeavours to receive Christ b 
faith, though they be convinced of the truth of the 
gospel. This they call waiting upon God at the doors 
of his grace and salvation, in the use of means ap-_ 
pointed by him, and sitting under the droppings of 
the sanctuary. But let them know that this is not 
the right waiting on God required in Scripture, It is 
rather disobedience to God, and to the means of his 
appointment, who requires that we should be doers of 
the word, and not hearers only, deceiving ourselves, || 


*2Tim.iii,7. $1 Tim.vi,3. John vii, 17. § Luke xvi, 31, 
|| James i, 22. Poo ot! a ae 
fi\+> ae Pas 


a, 


Direct. XI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 205 


and that we should come in to the spiritual feast ;* 
and not only stand at the door, or sit under the drop- 
pings of the house of God, lest Christ repute us no 
etter than eayesdroppers. That holy waiting on 
the Lord commended to us in Scripture, is ever ac- 
companied with believing and hoping in the Lord, and 
dependeth thereon : “ I had fainted, unless I had be- 
lieved to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of 
the living. Wait on the Lord: be of good courage, 
and he shall strengthen thine heart : wait, I say, on 
the Lord.t It is good that a man should both hope 
and quietly wait for the salvation of the Lord.”’+ 
What is it that these deluded ones -wait for before 
they perform the duty of believing? Is it for more 
knowledge of the gospel. The way to increase thy 
knowledge, as well as any other talent, is to make 
use of what thou hast received already. Believe 
heartily on Christ for all thy salvation, according 
to that little knowledge of the gospel which thou 
hast, and thou wilt have an interest in the promise of 
knowledge contained in the new covenant: ‘They 
shall all know me, from the least to the greatest of 
them, saith the Lord.’’§ Is it for the appointed time 
of thy conversion that thou waitest? Then thou 
waitest, as those impotent folk that lay at the pool of 
Bethesda waiting for the season when the angel would 
come down and move the water. Know then, that if 
thou enter into Christ now by faith, thou shalt find 
in him waters of life, and the Spirit moving them for 
the healing and quickening of ay soul. God hath 
appointed by his word, that it shall be thy duty to 
endeavour that the present time should be the time 
of thy conversion: as the Holy Ghost saith, “To-day 
if thou wilt hear his voice, harden not thy heart.”’|| 
And thou shalt never know at what time God hat 
proposed, in his secret counsel, to give faith to thee 
until thou dost actually believe. Dost thou wait for 


_ -® Luke xiy, 23. + Psal. xxvii, 13, 14. t Lam. iii, 26. 
eth ~ § Jer. xxxi, 34. || Heb. iti, 7, 8. 


s 


Vy 


206 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XT, 


any manifestations or flowings in of God’s saying love 
to thy soul? Then the way to obtain it is, to believe 
that the God of hope may fill thee with all joy and 
peace in believing.* Thou hast sufficient manifesta- 
tion of God’s love to thy soul, by the free promises of 
life and salvation by Christ. Do but trust on the 
name of the Lord, and stay upon thy God when thou 
walkest in darkness, and seest no light of sensible 
comforts any other way; otherwise thou waitest for 
comfort in vain, and this shalt thou have at the Lord’s 
hand, thou shalt lie down in sorrow.t Dost thou wait 
for any qualifications to prepare thee for the worl: of 
believing ; if they be good and holy qualifications, 
thou canst not have them before faith ; but they are 
either included in the nature of faith, or they are fruits 
of it, as hath been largely proved. If they be bad 
and sinful, it is strange that any should wait for them, 
and yet no more strange than true. Some foolishly 
wait to be terrified with a sense of God’s wrath, and 
despairing thoughts, and these they call the pangs of 
the new birth; though, in their own nature, they are 
rather the pangs of the spiritual death, and bring forth 
hatred to God rather than holiness ; and, therefore, 
we should strive to prevent them, by believing God’s 
love in Christ, rather than to wait for them. It is 
true, God maketh these despairing thoughts, as well 
as other sins, work for good to them that are delivered 
from them by faith in Christ ; they are moved thereby 
to hate sin, and to prize Christ the more, and the 
comforts of his pope: and to loathe and abhor them- 
selves ; yet many are brought to Christ without them 
by God’s giving them the knowledge of their own 
sins, and of Christ’s salvation together. Several ex- 
amples of these were above mentioned, who received 
the word with joy at the first hearing of it. And we 
must not desire or wait for any evil of sin, such as 
these despairing thoughts are, that good may come of 
it ; neither should we expect to be worse before we 


* Rom. xy, 13. + Isa. i, 10, 11. 


Se on Pe 
' i f 
: , MT 7 ‘ 


Direct. XI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 207 


be better, when we may and ought to be better pre- 
sently, by believing on Christ. 

The rourru thing in the direction is, that we should 
continue and increase in the most holy faith. And, 
that we may, we must not think that, when we have 
once attained the grace of saving faith, and thereby 
are begotten anew in Christ, our names are up in 
heaven, and therefore we may be careless: but as long 
as we continue in this life, we must endeavour to con- 
tinue in the faith, grounded” and settled, not moved 
away from the hope of the gospel ;* and to hold the 
beginning of our confidence, and the rejoicing of hope 
stedfast to the end;+ and build up ourselves in our 
most holy faith,} abounding therein with thanksgiv- 

‘ing.§ ‘Though we receive Christ freely by faith, yet 
we are but babes in Christ.|| And we must not ac- 
count that we have already attained, or are already 
erfect ;{[ but we must strive to be more rooted and 
uilt ve in him, until we come unto a perfect man, 
unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of \ ad 
Christ.** If the new nature be really in us by regene- Ao 
ration, it will have an appetite to its own continuance A 
and increase, until it come to perfection, as the new- 
born babe.tt And we are not only to receive Christ 
and a new holy nature by faith, but also to live and 
_ wall by it, and to resist the devil, and to quench all 
his fiery darts by it, and also to grow in grace, and to 
erfect holiness in the fear of God; for we are kept 
y the mighty power of God through faith unto sal- 
-vation.{{ As all our Christian warfare is the good 
- fight of faith,§§ all spiritual life and holiness continue, 
grow, or decay in us according as faith continueth, 
_ groweth, or decayeth in vigour: but, when this faith 
beginneth to sink by fears and doubting, the man him- 
If beginneth to sink together with it.|||| Faith is like 


Col. 1,23. } Heb. iii, 6, 14. t Jude verse 20, § Col. ii, 7. 
|}. Cor. ifi, 1. q Phil. iii, 12, 13. ** Eph, iv, 13. 
linge, fo fh Pet. SS.’ | S80 Dimsyi, 12, 

rh ‘Matt. xiv, 29, 30,31, 0 


208 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XI. 


the hand of Moses; while it is held up, Israel prevails 
—while it is let down, Amalek prevails.* This con- 
tinuance and growth in faith will require our labour 
and industry, as well as the beginning ; though we 
are to ascribe the glory of all to the grace of God in 
Christ, who is the finisher as well as the author of it.t 
The church meeteth with great difficulties in her 
marching through the wilderness of this world to the 
heavenly Canaan, as well as in her first deliverance 
from Egyptian bondage ; yea, we often meet with 
greater difficulties in going to perfection, than we did 
in the beginning of the good work: the wisdom and 
mercy of God so ordering it, that we shall be exercised 
with the sharpest dispensations of providence, and the 
fiercest assaults of our own corruptions, and satan’s 
temptations, after we have grace given us to stand in the — 
evil day. You must therefore endeavour to continue 
and go on in the same right manner as I have taught 
you to begin this great work of believing Christ, that 
your faith may be of the same nature from the begin- 
ning to the end, though it increase in degrees ; for our 
faith is imperfect, and joined with much unbelief in 
this world, and we had need to ae still, “Lord, I 
believe : help thou mine unbelief; and, therefore, 
we have need to strive for more faith, that we may 
receive Christ in greater perfection. If you find your 
faith hath produced good works, you should thereby 
increase your confidence in Christ for salvation by his 
mere grace. But take heed of changing the nature of 
your faith, from trusting on the grace and merits of 
Christ, to trusting on your own works, according to 
the Popish doctrine, That our first justification is by 
grace and faith only, but our second justification is 
also by works. Beware also of trusting on faith itself 
as a work of righteousness, instead of trusting on 
Christ by faith. If you do not find that your beliey- 
ing in such a right manner as I have described, doth 
produce such fruits of holiness as you desire, you — 


* Exod. xvii, 1. + Heb. xii,2, Mark ix, 24, 


bk 


Direct. XI. OF SANCTIFICATION. 209 


ought not to diminish, but rather to increase your 
confidence in Christ, knowing that the wealness of 
your faith hindereth its fruitfulness ; and the greater 
your confidence is concerning the love of God to you 
in Christ, the greater will be your love to God and to 
his service. If you fall into any gross sin after the 
work is begun in you, as David and Peter did, think 
not that you must cast away your confidence, and 
expect nothing but wrath from God and Christ, and 
that you must refuse to be.comforted by the grace of 
Christ, at least for some time ; for thus you would be 
the more weak and prone to fall into other sins ; but 
rather strive more confidently, that you have an ad- 
vocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous ; 
and that he is the propitiation for our sins.* And let 
not the guilt of sin stay at all upon your conscience, 
but esis it away with all speed, in the fountain of 
Christ’s blood, which is opened for us, that it may be 
ready for our use on all such incident occasions; that 
so you may be humbled for your sins in a gospel-way, 
and may hate your own sinfulness, and be vei for 
it with godly sorrow, out of love to God. Peter 


aa have been ruined forever, by denying Christ, 
as Judas was by betraying him, if Peter’s faith had 
not been upheld by the prayer of Christ.t Ifacloud 
be cast over all your inward qualifications, so that you 
can see no grace at all in yourselves, yet still trust on 
him that justifieth the ungodly, and came to seek and 
to save them that are lost. If God seem to deal with 


210 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XII. 


DIRECTION XII. 


Make diligent use of your most holy faith, for the immediate perfor- 
mance of the duties of the law, by walking no longer according to your 
old natural state, or any principles or means of practice that belong 
unto it, but only according to that new state which you receive by 
faith, and the principles and means of practice that properly belong 
thereunto ; and strive to continue and increase in such manner of 
practice. This is the only way to attain to an acceptable perfor- 
mance of those holy and righteous duties, as far as it is possible in 
this present life. 


EXPLICATION. 


Here I am guiding you to the manner of practice, 
wherein you are to make use of faith, and of all other 
effectual means of holiness before treated of, which 
faith layeth hold on, for the immediate performance 
of the law; which is the great end aimed at in this 
whole treatise, And, therefore, this deserveth to be 
diligently considered : the principal direction to which © 
all the foregoing and following are subservient. As 
for the meaning of it, I have already shewed that our 
old natural state is that which we derive from the » 
first Adam by natural generation: and it is called, in 
the scripture, the old man; and, while we be in it, 
we are said to be in the flesh. And our new state is 
that which we receive from the second Adam, Jesus 
Christ, by being new-born in union and fellowship 
with him through faith ; and it is called, in scripture, 
the new man; and, when we are in it, we are said to 
be in the Spirit. The principles and means of prac- 
tice belonging to a natural state, are such as persons 
do or may attain, or make use of, before they are in 
Christ by faith. Such as belong properly to the new 
state, are the manifold holy endowments, privileges, 
and enjoyments, which we partake of in Christ by 
faith, such as have already appeared to be the only 
effectual means of a holy life. We are said to walk 


Direct. XII, OF SANCTIFICATION. 211 


according to either of these states, or to the principles 
or means that belong to either of them, when we are 
moved and guided, by virtue of them, to such actings 
as are agreeable to them. Thus kings act according 
to their state, in commanding authoritatively, and in 
magnificent bounty ; poor men, in the way of service 
and obedience ; and children indiscreetly.* So the 
manner of the practice here directed to, consists in 
moving and guiding ourselves, in the performance of 
the works of the law, by gospel principles and means. 
This is the rare and excellent art of godliness, in 
which every Christian should strive to be skilful and 
expert. The reason why many come off with shame 
and confusion, after they have a long time laboured 
with much zeal and industry for the attainment of 
true godliness, is, because they were never acquainted 
with this holy art, and never endeavoured to practise it 
in a right gospel-way. Some worldly arts are called 
mysteries; but, above all, this spiritual art of godliness 
is, without controversy, a great mystery ;f because 
the means that are to be made use of in it, are deeply 
mysterious, as hath been shewed ; and you are not a 
skilful artist till you know them, and can reduce them 
to practice. It is amanner of practice far above the 
sphere of natural ability, such as would never have 
entered into the hearts of the wisest in the world, if 
it had not been revealed to us in the scriptures ; and, 
when it is there most plainly revealed, continueth a 
dark riddle to those that are not inwardly enlightened 
and taught by the Holy Spirit ; such as many godly 
_ persons, guided by the Spirit, do in some measure 
walk in, yet do but obscurely discern; they can 
hardly perceive their own knowledge of it, and can 
hardly give any account to others of the way wherein 
they walked ; as the disciples that walked in Christ, 
the way to the Father, and yet: perceived not that 
knowledge in themselves: Lord, we know not whi- 


_* Esther i, 7, Prov. xviii, 23. 1 Cor, xiii, 11. - tl Tim. iif. 16. 


a is Ah 45 


ee oe ey ee et ee ey aS a 


a 


212 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XII, 


ther thou goest, and how can we know thy way ?* 
This is the reason why many poor believers are so 
weak in Christ, and attain so small a degree of holi- 
ness and righteousness. Therefore, that you may the 
better be acquainted with a mystery of so high con- 
cernment, I shall shew, in the first place, that the 
Holy Scriptures do direct you to this manner of prac- 
tice, as only effectual for the performance of holy. 
duties: and then I shall lay before you some neces- 
sary instructions, that you may understand how to 
walk aright in it, and continue and go forward therein 
till you may be made perfect in Christ. 

For the rirsr of these, the Holy Seriptures are 
very large and clear, in directing us to this manner 
of practice, and to continuance and growth therein. 
And here it is useful for us to observe the great 
variety of peculiar words and phrases whereby the 
Holy Ghost teacheth this mystery, which many that 
frequently read the Scriptures, yea, that pretend to 
be preachers of the gospel, do little understand or 

regard ; shewing thereby, that the things of the Spirit 
of God are foolishness to them, and that they are not 
yet acquainted with the form of sound words, and 
are strangers to the very language of the gospel, 
which they profess, and pretend to teach. I shall 
therefore present to your view several of those pecu- 
liar ae and phrases whereby this mysterious 
manner of practice is expressed in the Holy Scrip- 
tures, and commended to you as the only way for 
the sure attainment of all holiness in heart and life, 
I shall rank such of them together as agree in sense, 
that the multitude of them may not breed confusion 
in your thoughts. ‘ 

Firstly, This is the manner of practice in Scripture, 
which is expressed by living by faith;+ walking by 
faith ;{ faith working by love;$ overcoming the 


* John xiv, 5, + Hab. ii, 4, Gal. ii, 20. Heb. x, 38. 
2 Cor. y, 7. § Gal. y, 6. ; 


aw 


Sh verse be” 


Direct. XII. OF SANCTIFICATION. 213 


world by faith ;* quenching all the fiery darts of the 
wicked, by the shield of faith.t Some make no 
more of living and walking by faith, than merely a 
stirring up and encouraging ourselves to our duty by 
such principles as we believe. Thus the Jews might 
account that they lived by. faith, because they pro- 
fessed and assented unto the doctrine of Moses and 
the prophets, and were moyed thereby to a zeal of 
God, though they sought righteousness not by faith, 
but as it were by the works.of the law.}) Thus Paul 
might think he lived by faith, while ke was a zealous 
Pharisee; but afterwards he knew, that the life of 
faith consisted in dying to the law, and living to God ; 
and that not himself, but Christ lived in him.§ As it 
is one and the same thing, to be justified by faith and 
by Christ believed on;]|| so to live, walk, and work 

* by faith, is all one with living, walking, working by 
means of Christ, and his saving endowments; which 
we receive and make use of by faith, to guide and 
move ourselves to the practice of holiness. 

Secondly, The same thing is commended to us by the 
term of walling, rooted and built up in Christ ; living 
to God, and not to ourselves, but to have Christ living 

.in us ;¢ a good conversation in Christ ; ] pues on the 
Lord Jesus Christ, that we may walk honestly as in 
the day ;** being strong in the Lord, and in the 

ower of his might ;ff doing all things in thename of 

hrist ;{{ walking up and down in the name of the 
Lord ;$§ going in the strength of the Lord; makin 
mention of his righteousness, even of his only. 
These phrases are frequent, and do sufficiently ex- 
plain one another; and do shew, that we are to prac- 
tise holiness, not only by virtue of Christ’s authority, 
but also of his stengthening endowments moving us 
and encouraging us thereunto, 


- *] John v, 4. ¢ Eph. vi, 16. ft Rom. ix 32. § Gal. ii, 19, 20. 


|| Rom. v, 1. {| Col. ii, 6, 7. ¢ Gal. ii, 19, 20. 
(1 Pet. iii, 16. ** Rom. xiii, 13,14. ft Eph. vi, 10. {t Col. iii, 17. 


§§ Zech. x, 12. ||| Psa. Ixxi, 16. 


Be ge oe \\ 


Bae aie r 
COO a Ce Ae te ae eee 


214 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, XII, 


Thirdly, It is also signified by the phrases of being 
strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus ;* haying our 
conversation in the world, not with fleshly wisdom, 
but by the grace of God,t having or holding fast grace, 
that we serve God acceptably, labouring abundantly, 
in such a manner, as that the whole work is not per- 
formed by us, but by the grace of God that is with 
us.[ By grace therefore, we may well understand 
the privileges of our new state given to us in Christ, 
whereby we ought to be influenced and guided in the 
performance of holy duties. 

Fourthly, It also signified, when we are to put off the 
old, and put on the new man; yea, to continue in so 
doing, though we have done it in a measure already, 
and that we avoid our former sinful conversation,§ and 
to avoid sin, because we have put off the old, and put 
onthe new man.|| Ihave already shewed, that by this 
twofold man is not meant merely sin and holiness; 
but by the former is meant our natural state, with all 
its endowments, whereby we are furnished only to 
the practice of sin; and by the latter, our new state 
in Christ, that whereby we are furnished with all 
means necessary for the practice of holiness, 

Fifthly, We are to understand the same thing, when 
we are taught not to walk after the flesh, but after the 
Spirit, that we may be free from the law of sin, and 
that the righteousness of the law may be fulfilled in 
us;9 and through the Spirit, to mortify the deeds of 
the body; and to be led. by the Spirit, because we 
live by the Spirit, and have crucified the flesh, with 
the affections and lusts.¢ The apostle doth shew by 
these expressions, not only that we are to practise 
holiness, but also by what means we may do it effec- 
tually. By the flesh is meant our old nature derived 
from the first Adam: and by the Spirit is meant the 
Spirit of Christ, and that new nature which we haye 


*2 Tim. ii, 1.~{2 Cor.i,12, $1 Cor. xv, 10. § Eph. iy, 21, 22, 24. - 
{| Col. iti, 9, 14, { Rom. vii, 1, 3. @Gal. v, 24, — 


ear Dl 


Direct. XII. OF SANCTIFICATION. 215 


by him dwelling in us. We are said to walk after 
either of these natures, when we make the properties 
or qualifications of either of them to be the princi- 
ples of our practice. So when we are taught to serve 
in newness of Spirit, and not in the oldness of the 
letter, that so we may bring forth fruit unto God, 
the meaning is, that we must endeavour to bring 
forth the fruits of holiness, not by virtue of the law, 
that killing letter, to which the flesh is married, and 
by which the motions of sin are in us; but by virtue 
of the Spirit, and his manifold riches, which we par- 
take of in our new state, by a mystical marriage with 
Christ ;* and by virtue of such principles as belong 
to the new state declared in the gospel, whereby the 
Holy Spirit is ministered to us, 

Siathly, This is the manner of walking which the 
apostle Paul directeth us unto, when he teacheth us by 
his own example, that the continual work of our lives 
should be, “‘ to know Christ, and the power of his re- 
surrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being 
made conformable to his death; if by any means we 
may attain unto the resurrection of the dead, and to 
inerease and press forward in this kind of know- 
ledge.”’*+ Certainly, he meaneth such an experi- 
mental knowledge of Christ, and his death and resur- 
rection, as effectually makes us conformable thereunto, 
in dying unto sin, and living unto God. And he 
would hereby guide us, to make use of Christ, and 
his death and resurrection, by faith, as the powerful 
means of all holiness in heart and life; and to increase 
in this manner of walking, until we attain unto per- 
fection in Christ. 

The szconp thing proposed was, to lay before you 
some necessary instructions, that your steps may be 
guided aright, to continue and go forward in this way 
of holiness, until you be made perfect in Christ. 


_ And, seeing we are naturally prone to mistake this 


* Rom. vii, 4, 6. p + Phil. iii, 10, 12, 14. 


216 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XII. 


way, and are utterly unable to find it out, or discern 
it, by our own reason and understanding, we should 
the more diligently attend to these instructions taken 
out of the Holy Scriptures. And we should pray 
earnestly, that God would give unto us the Spirit of 
wisdom and revelation, that we may discern the way 
of holiness thereby, and walk aright in it: according 
to that gracious promise, ‘The wayfaring men, though 
fools, shall not err therein.”* 

Firstly, Let us observe and consider diligently in 
our whole conversation, that though we are partakers 
of anew holy state by faith in Christ, yet our na- 
tural state doth remain, in a measure, with all its 
corrupt principles and properties. As long as we live 
in this present world, our apprehension of Christ, 
and his perfection in this life, is only by faith ; whereas 
by sense and reason, we may apprehend much in 
ourselves contrary to Christ: and this faith is imper- 
fect ; so that true believers have cause to pray to God 
to help their unbelief.t Therefore, though we re- 
ceive perfeet Christ by faith, yet the measure and 
degree of enjoying him is imperfect, and we hope 
still, so long as we are in this world, to enjoy him in 
a highér degree of perfection, than we have done. 
Weare yet but weak in Christ ;{ children in compa- 
rison to the perfection we expect in another world ;§ 
and we must grow still, until we come to the perfect 
man ;|| and some are weaker babes than others, and 
have received Christ in so small a measure, that the 
may be accounted carnal rather than spiritual. And 
because all the blessings and perfections of our new 
state, as justification, the gift of the Spirit, and of the 
holy nature, and the adoption of children, are seated 
and treasured up in Christ, and joined with him in- 
separably, we can receive them no further, than we 
receive Christ himself by faith; which we do in an 


* Isa. xxxv, 8. + Mark ix, 24. } 2 Cor. xiii, 4. 
§ 1 Cor, xiii, 10, 11. | Eph. iy, 13. 4] 1 Cor. iii, 1. 


oo 


Direct. XT. OF SANCTIFICATION, 217 


imperfect measure and degree in this life. The apostle 
Paul proposeth himself as a pattern for all those that 
are perfect in the truth of grace to imitate: and yet 
he professeth, that he was not yet made so perfect in 
the degree or measure of saving endowments, but that 
he did still press forward towards the mark for the 
Se of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus, la- 
ouring still to apprehend and win Christ more per- 
fectly, and to be found in him not having his own 
righteousness, but that which is of God by faith ; and 
to gain more experimental knowledge of Christ, and 
of the fellowship of his sufferings, and the power of 
his resurrection, being made conformable thereunto.* 
Believers are justified already ; yet wait for the hope 
of righteousness by faith, i.e. for the full enjoyment 
_ of the righteousness of Christ.t They have received 
but the first fruits of the Spirit, and must wait for a 
more full enjoyment of it. The Spirit witnesseth 
now to them, that they are the children of God ; and 
-yet they groan within themselves, waiting for more 
full enjoyment of adoption.}{ -Now, seeing the de- 
gree and measure of our reception and enjoyment of 
Christ, with all the blessings of our new state in him, 
in this life, is imperfect, it followeth clearly, that our 
contrary natural state, with its properties, remaineth 
still in usin some degree, and is not perfectly abo- 
lished ; so that all believers in this world do, in some 
degree, partake of these two contrary states. Be- 
lievers have indeed put off the old man, and put on 
the new man, where Christ is all and in all;§ yet 
_ they are to put the old man off and the new man on 
more and more, because the old man remaineth still 
inameasure. ‘They are said to be, not in the flesh, 
but in the Spirit, because their being in the Spirit is 
their best and lasting state; as denominations are 
usually taken from the better part: but yet the flesh 


* Phil, iii, 8, 10, 14. Gal, ¥, 5. { Rom, viii, 23. 
, § Col. iii, 10, 11 
} 7 7 ‘ 


218 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XII. 


is in them, and they find work enough to mortify the 
deeds of it.* Therefore several things which are con- 
trary to cach other, are frequently attributed to be- 
lievers in the Scripture, with respect to these two con- 
trary states, wherein one place seems to contradict 
another; and yet both are true in divers respects. 
Thus holy Paul saith truly of himself, I live, yet not 
I;+ because he did live to God by Christ living in 
him: and yet, in another respect, according to his 
natural state, he did not live to God. Again he pro- 
fesseth, that he was carnal, sold under sin; and yet 
on the contrary, that he allowed not sin, but hated 
it. He sheweth how both these were true concern- 
ing himself in divers Tie tas He saith, in me (that 
is, in my flesh) dwelleth no good thing; and, I de- 
light to do the will of God according to the inward 
man. With the mind I myself serve the law of God ; 
but, with the flesh, the law of sin.t John saith, He 
that saith he hath no sin, deceiveth himself, and is a 
liar ;§ and also that it is true, that whosoever is born 
of God, doth not commit sin, for his seed, i. e. Christ’s, 
the new spiritual nature, remaineth in him: and he 
cannot sin, because he is born of God.|| It is true, 
that we are weak and nothing, and yet strong and 
able to do all things.{] It is true, that believers are 
dead, because of sin ; but alive, because of righteous- 
ness ;** and that when they die, by a natural death, 
they shall never die.t+ They are sons that have the 
inheritance by their birthright, and yet, in some re- 
spects, may differ nothing from servants ; and so they 
may be under the law, in a sense, and yet under 
grace, and heirs, according to the free promise, at the 
same time.{} They are redeemed from the curse of 
the law, and have forgiveness of sins, and a promise, 
that God will never be wroth with them, nor rebuke 


* Rom. viii, 9, 13. + Gal. ii, 20. t Rom. vii, 14, 15, 18, 22, 25. 
§1 John i, 8. || 1 John iii, 9. 4] 2 Cor. xii, 10, 11. Phil. iv, 13. 
** Rom. viii, 10. tt John xi, 25, 26. tf Gal. iv, 1, 2. 


1k la 4 Aine al alll a 


Direct. XIT. OF SANCTIFICATION. 219 


them any more;* and yet, on the contrary, the curse 
written in the law is sometimes poured out upon 
them ;+ and they have need still to pray, that God 
would deliver them from their guiltiness, and forgive 
their debts;{ and they may expect, that God will 
punish them for all their iniquities.§ Those contrary 
things asserted concerning believers in Scripture, do 
sufficiently manifest, that they partake of two con- 
trary states in this life. And this is a plain, easy, 
and ready way to reconcile these seeming contradic- 
tions, whatever other ways be used to reconcile some 
of them, And what reason is there to question, that 
the whole state that remaineth in believers in some 
degrees, seeing all sound Protestants acknowledge, 
that the sinful depravation and pollution of our na- 
tures, commonly called original sin, which is one 

rincipal part of the old state, doth remain in all as 
ong as they live in this world? Now, though some 
penal evils may be said to remain in us, yet we can- 
not suppose that this original pollution is continued 
in us as considered in‘Christ; but as considered in 
our old state derived from the first Adam, There- 
fore the first sin of Adam is imputed, in some respect, 
even to those that are justified by faith ; and they re- 
main, in a measure, as aforesaid, under the punish- 
ment and curse denounced.|| “In the day thou eat- 
est thereof, thou shalt surely die.” And, on this ac- 
count, the same original guilt and pollution is propa- 
gated to the children of believing parents, as well as 
others, by natural generation. And, if such a great 
and fundamental part of the natural state continue in 
believers, as subjection to the guilt of the first sin and 
original corruption, which is one great part of the 
punishment and death threatened, and by which we 
are prone and inclined to all actual sins ; why should 
we not judge, that other parts of the same state do like- 


i * Gal. ifi, 13. Eph. 1,7. Isa.liv,9. + Dan. ix, 11. 
t Psu. li, 14, Matt. vi, 12. § Amos iii, 2. || Gen. if, 17. 


220 ; THE GOSPEL MYSTERY. Direet. XII. 


wise continue in them, as the guilt of their own actual 
sins, and subjection to the wrath of God, and the 
curses and punishments denounced against them in 
the law? And why should we not judge, that all 
the miseries of this life, and death itself, are inflicted 
upon believers, at least in some respect, as punish- 
ments of sin? It may be objected, hat a doctrine 
of a twofold state of believers in this life, doth much 
derogate from the perfection of our justification by 
Christ, and from the fulness of all the grace and 
spiritual blessings of Christ, and from the merits of 
his death, and the power of his Spirit; and that it 
greatly diminisheth the consolation of believers in 
Christ. But it may be easily vindicated from this 
objection, if we understand it rightly; for, notwith- 
standing this twofold state, it still holdeth true, that 
believers, while they are on earth, have all perfection 
of spiritual blessings, justification, adoption, the gift 
of the Spirit; holiness, eternal life and glory in and 
with Christ.* In the person of Christ, who is now 
in heaven, the old man is perfectly crucified: they 
are dead to sin, and to the law and its curse, and the 

are quickened together with him, and raised u with 
him, and made to sit in heavenly places, in Christ.+ 
And believers do, in their own persons receive and 
enjoy by faith all these perfect spiritual blessings of 
Christ, as far as they reccive and enjoy Christ himself 
dwelling in them, and no further, Thus far they are 
in a new state, free from the guilt, pollution and pun- 
ishment of sin, and so from the wrath of God and all 
miseries, and death itself, while they are in this 
world; yea, all the guilt, pollution, and punishment 
of sin, and all evils whatever, which they are subject 
to according to their natural state, do them no harm 
according to this new state, but work for their 
good; and are no evils, but rather advantages to 
them, tending to the destruction only of the flesh, 
and to the perfection of the new man in Christ, Yet 


* Eph, i, 3. + Eph. ii, 6. 


Direct. XII. OF SANCYIFICATION, 221 


it holdeth true also, that our reception and enjoyment 
of Christ himself and all his perfections, is but in an 
imperfect measure and degree; until faith be turned 
into heavenly vision and fruition of Christ; and 
therefore our old sinful state, with the evils thereof, 
is not perfectly abolished during thislife. ‘The king- 
dom of heayen, or the grace of Christ within us, is 
like leaven in meal, which doth not unite itself per- 
fectly to the meal in an instant, but _by degrees, until 
the whole be leavened ;* or like the morning light, 
that expelleth darkness by degrees; shining more and 
more unto the perfect day.t This cannot be justly 
accounted any derogation from the merit of Christ’s 
death, or from the power of his Spirit, seeing Christ 
never intended to bring to pass by his death, or by 
the power of his Spirit, that we should enjoy his 
spiritual blessings any further than we are in him, 
and enjoy him by faith; or that we should be made 
holy or happy according to the flesh, by a reforma- 
tion of our natural state; as hath been shewed, 
Neither doth this diminish the consolation of believers 
in Christ: for thereby they may know, that they 
_ have the perfection of grace and happiness in Christ, 
and that they enjoy it in this world, as far as the 
enjoy Christ himself by faith; and that they shall 
enjoy it in a perfect measure, and be fully freed from 
their sinful and miserable state, when that frame of 
nature which they received from the first Adam is 
dissolved by death. 

This instruction is very useful to frame our souls 
aright for the practising holiness only by those gos- 
pel principles and means that belong to our new state, 
which we are partakers of by faith in Christ. And 
thus it is easily vindicated from another great objec- 
tion, wherein the Papists and Quakers do much tri- 
umph. They appeal to men’s consciences to answer 
this question, Which doctrine is most likely to bring 


* Matt. xiii, 33. + Prov. iv, 18, 


eit’ F uy 
an Bie > Pe 8 a 


i aie 


222 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XE, 
people to the practice of true godliness ; theirs, which 
teacheth, That perfect holiness may be attained in 
this life ; or ours, which teacheth, That it is impossi- 
ble for us to keep the law perfectly, and to purge our- 
selves from all sin, as long as we live in this world, 
though we use our best endeavours? They think that 
common reason will make the verdict pass for them 
against our doctrine, as that which discourageth all 
endeavours for perfection, and hardeneth the hearts 
of people, to allow themselves in sin, because they 
cannot avoid it. But, on the contrary, the doctrine 
of Perfectionists hardens people, to allow themselves 
in sin, and to call evil good; as the Papists account, 
that the concupiscence of the flesh against the Spirit, 
is no sin, but rather good matter for the exercise of 
their virtues, because the most perfect in this life ave 
not without it. It also discourageth those that labour 
to get holiness in the right way, by faith in Christ, 
and maketh them to think that they labour in vain, 
because they find themselves still sinful, and far from 
perfection, when they have done their best to attain 
it. It hindercth our diligence in seeking holiness by 
those principles and means whereby only it can be 
found : for who will be diligent and watchful to avoid 
walking according to his own carnal principles, if he 
think, that his own carnal state, with its principles, 
is quite abolished, and is out of him, so that at present 
he is in no danger of walking according to them? 
Whatsoever good works the doctrine of the Perfec- 
tionist may serve to promote, I am sure it hindereth 
a great part of that work which Christ would have us 
to be employed in as long as we live in this world. 
We must know, that our old state, with its evil prin- 
ciples, continueth still in a measure, or else we shall 
not be fit. for the great duties of confessing of sins, 
loathing ourselves for them, praying ay for the 
pardon of them, a just sorrowing for them with a 
godly sorrow, accepting the punishment of our sins, 
and giving God the glory of his justice, and offering 

t Z | ; 


je 


5 


Direct. XTI, OF SANCTIFICATION. 223 


to him the sacrifice of a broken and contrite spirit, 
being poor in spirit, working out our salvation with 
fear and trembling. Some have doubted, how it can 
consist with our justification by Christ, that we should 
be still liable to be punished for our sins, and obliged 
to pray for the pardon of them; because they. have 
not well considered the twofold state of believers in 
this life. And, except we know this, and keep it in 
mind, we shall never be fit to practise continually the 
great duties that tend to the putting off the old man, 
and putting on the new man, and mortifying the deeds 
of the body by the Spirit, praying continually, that 
God would renew a right spirit in us, and sanctify us 
throughout: pressing forward to perfection, desiring 
the sincere mills of the word, and the enjoyment of 
other ordinances, Christ hath appointed that his 
church on earth should be employed in such works : 
and Perfectionists either do, or fain would account them 
needless for them, and that they have no longer need 
of Christ himself, to be their spiritual physician and 
advocate with the Father, and propitiation for their 
sins; therefore they are not fit to be members of the 
chureh on earth, and are never likely to be members 
of the church in heaven, except they can make a lad- 
der, and climb up thither before their time. 

Secondly, Despair of purging the flesh or natural 


‘man of its sinful lusts and inclinations, and of practis- 


ing holiness, by your willing and resolving to do the 
best that lieth in your own power, and trusting on 
the grace of God and Christ, to help you in such re- 
solutions and endeavours: rather resolve to trust on 
Christ, to work in you to will and to do by his own 
power, according to his own good pleasure. They 
that are convineed of theit own sin and misery, do 


commonly first think to tame the flesh, and to sub- 


due and root out its lusts, and to make their corrupt 
nature to be better natured, and inclined to holiness, 
by their struggling and wrestling with it: and, if they 
can but bring their hearts to a*full purpose and reso- 


224 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XII, 


lution to do the best that lieth in them, they hope, 
that, by sucha resolution, they shall be able to achieve 
great enterprises in the conquest of their lusts, and 
performance of the most difficult duties. It is the 
great work of some zealous divines, in their preach- 
ing and writings, to stir up people to this resolution, 
~ wherein they place the chiefest turning point from 
sin to godliness. And they think, that this is not 
contrary to the life of faith, because they trust on the 
grace of God through Christ, to help them in all such 
resolutions and endeavours. Thus they endeavour to 
reform their old state, and to be made perfect in the 
flesh, instead of putting it off, and walking according 
to the new state in Christ. They trust on low carnal 
things for holiness, and upon the acts of their own 
will, their purposes, resolutions, and endeayours, in- 
stead of Christ; and they trust to Christ, to help 
them in this carnal way: whereas true faith would 
teach them, that they are nothing, and that they do 
but labour in vain. ‘They may as well wash a black- 
amoor white, as purge the flesh or natural man from 
its evil lusts, and make it pure and holy. It is des- 
ey wicked, past all cure. It will unavoidably 
ust against the Spirit of God, even’ in the best saints 
on earth.* Its mind is enmity to the law of God: 
and neither is, nor can be subject to it.t They that 
would cure it, and make it holy, by their own reso- 
_lutions and endeavours, do act quite contrary to the 
design of Christ’s death; for he died, not that the flesh, 
or old natural man, might be made holy, but that 
it might be crucified, and destroyed out of us ;{ and 
that we might live to God, not to ourselves, or by any 
natural power of our own resolutions or endeavours, 
but by Eisrist living in us, and by his Spirit bringing 
forth the fruits of righteousness in us.§ Therefore 
we must be content to leave the natural man vile and 


* Gal. v.17. + Rom. viii, 7. £ Rom, vi, 6. 
§ Gal. ii, 20, and chap. Vv, 24, 25. 


be P 
’ Direct. XII, OF SANCTIFICATION, 225 


wicked, as we found it, until it be utterly abolished 
by death ; though we must not allow its wickedness, 
but rather groan to be delivered from the body of 
this death, thanking God that there is a deliverance 
through Jesus Christ our Lord. Our way to mortify 
sinful affections and lusts, must be, not by purging 
them out of the flesh, but by putting off the flesh, 
itself, and getting above into Christ by faith, and 
walking in that new nature that_is by him. ‘Thus 
“the way of life is above to the wise, that he may 
depart from hell beneath.’’* Our willing, resolving, 
and endeavouring, must be, to do the best, not that 
lieth -in ourselves, or in our own power, but that 
Christ and the power of his Spirit shall be pleased to 
work in us: for in us, i. e. in our flesh, there dwell- 
eth no good thing.t We have great ground to trust 
in God and Christ for help in such resolutions and 
endeayours after holiness, as in things that are agree- 
able to the design of Christ in our redemption, and to 
the way of acting and living by faith. It is likely, 
that Peter sincerely resolved to die with Christ, ra- 
ther than to deny him, and to do all that he could by 
his own power for that end; but Christ. made him 
quickly to see the weakness and vanity of such reso- 
lutions, And we see by experience, what many re- 
solutions, made in sickness and other dangers, mostly 
come to. It is not enough for us to trust on Christ, 
to help us to act and endeavour so far only as crea- 
tures; for so the worst of men are helped: he is the 
Jenovan, in whom they live, move, and have their 
being.{ And it is likely the Pharisce would trust on 
God, to help him in duty, as he would thank God, 
for the performance of duty.§ And this is all the 
faith that many make use of, in order to a holy prac- 
tice. But we must trust on Christ, to enable us above 
the strength of our own natural power, by virtue 
of the new nature which we have in Christ, and by his 


Prov. xv, 24. f Rom. vii, 18. { Acts xvii, 28, § Luke xviii, 11. 
“7 : \) 


_ 


226 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, XII. 


Spirit dwelling and working in us; or else our best 
endeavours will be altogether sinful, and mere hypo- 
crisy, notwithstanding all the help for which we trust 
upon him. We must also take heed of depending for 
holiness upon any resolution to walk in Christ, or an 
written covenants, or any holiness that we have al- 
ready received ; for we must know, that the virtue of 
these things continues no longer than we continue 
walking in Christ, and Christ in us. They must be 
kept up by the continual presence of Christ in us; as 
light is maintained by the presence of the sun, and 
cannot subsist without it. 

Thirdly, You must not seek to procure forgiveness 
of sins, the favour of God, a new holy nature, life and 
happiness, by any works of the moral law, or by any 
rites and ceremonies whatever ; but rather you must. 
work as those that have all these things already, ac- 
cording to your new state in Christ, as such who are 
only to receive them more and more by faith, as they 
are ready prepared and treasured up for you, and 
freely given to you, in your spiritual head, the Lord 
Jesus Christ. If we walk as those that are yet wholly 
to seek for the procurement of such enjoyments as 
these, it is a manifest sign, that at present, we judge 
ourselves to be without them, and without Christ 
himself: in whose fulness they are all contained ; and 
therefore we walk according to our old natural state, 
as those that are yet in the flesh, and that would get 
salvation in it, and py our carnal works and obser- 
vances, instead of living altogether on Christ by faith. 

_ This practice is according to the tenor of the covenant 
of works; as I have before shewed. And we have no 
ground to trust on Christ and his Spirit, to work holi- 
ness in us this way ; for we are dead to the legal cove- 
nant by the body of Christ ;* and, if we be led by the 
Spirit, we are not under the law.t When the Gala- 
tians were seduced, by false teachers, to seelx the pro- 


* Rom. vii, 4. + Gal. v, 18. 


eo ee Ate Dee aati Do 


Direct. XII. OF SANCTIFICATION, 227 


curement of justification and life by circumcision, and 
other works of the Mosaical law, the apostle Paul re- 
buketh them for seeking to be made perfect in the 
flesh, directly contrary to their good beginning in the 


_ Spirit, for rendering Christ of none effect to them, 


i 


and for falling from grace.* And when some of the 
Colossians sought perfection in the like manner, by 
observation of circumcision, holy means, holy times, 
and other rudiments of the world, the same apostle 
blameth them for not holding the head Jesus Christ, 
and as such as were not dead and risen with Christ, 
but living merely in the world.f He clearly sheweth, 
that those who seek any saving enjoyments in such a 
way, do walk according to their old natural state ; 
and that the true manner of living by faith in Christ, 
is, to wallc as those that have all fulness and perfee- 
tion of spiritual blessings in Christ by faith, and need 
not seek for them any other way to procure them for 
themselves. In this sense, it is a true saying, That 
believers should not act for life, but from life. They 
must act as those that are not procuring life by their 
works, but as such as have already received and de- 
rived life from Christ, and act from the power and 
virtue received from him. And hereby it appears, 
that the Papists, and all others that think to justify, 
purify, sanctify, and save themselves by any of their 
own works, rites or ceremonies whatever, do wallc in - 


_ acarnal way, as those that are without any present 


interest in Christ, and shall never attain unto holiness 

or happiness, until they learn a better way of reli- 
ion, 

_ Fourthly, Think not that you can effectually incline 

your heart to the immediate practice of holiness, by 

any such practical principles as do only serve to bind, 
ress, and urge you to the performance of holy duties, 
mut ‘rather let such principles stir you up to go to 


Christ first by faith, that you may be effectually in- 


% Gal. iii, 3, and v, 4. + Col. i, 19, 20, and ili, 1. 
we 
ra <4 \\ 


Ve Wa ia 
928 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XTI. 
' 


clined to the immediate practice of holiness in him by 
gospel principles that strengthen and enable you, as 
well as oblige you thereunto. There are some prac- 
tical principles that do only bind, press, and urge us 
to ely duties, by shewing the reasonableness, equity, 
and necessity of our obedience, without shewing at 
all how we, that are by nature dead in sin, under the 
wrath of God, may have any strength and ability for 
the performance of them ; as for instance, the autho- 
rity of God the law-giver, our absolute dependence 
on him as our Creator, Preserver, Governor, in’ whose 
hand is our life, breath, and all our happiness here 
and for ever; his all-seeing eye, that searcheth our 
heart, discerneth our very thoughts and secret pur- 
poses ; his exact justice, in rendering to all according 
to their works; his almighty and eternal power, to re- 
ward those that ohey him, and to punish transgressors 
for ever ; the unspeakable joy of heaven, and terrible — 
damnation of hell. Such principles as these do bind 
our consciences very strictly, and do work- very 
strongly upon the prevalent affections of hope and 
fear, to press and urge our hearts to the performance 
of holy duties, if we believe them assuredly, and work 
them earnestly upon our hearts, by frequent, serious, 
lively meditations And therefore some account them 
the most forcible and effectual means to form any vir- 
tue in the soul, and to bring it to immediate perfor- 
mance of any duty, though never so difficult ; and 
that the life of faith consisteth principally in our liv- 
ing to God in holiness, by a constant belief and medi- 
tation on them, And they account those things that 
serve to mind them of such principles, very effectual 
for holiness ; as, looking on the picture of death, or 
on a death’s head, keeping a coffin by them ready- 
made, walking about among the graves, &c. But this 
is not that manner of living to God whereof the apos- 
tle speaketh, when he saith, “I live, yet not I, but ” 
Christ liveth in me; and the life which I live in the — 
flesh, I live hy the faith of the Son of God, who loved — 


. me, and gave himself for me.* If a man make use of 


these obliging principles, to stir him to go to Christ 


for strength to act holily, he walketh like one that 


hath received Christ as his only life by faith : other- 
wise, he walketh like other natural men. For the 
natural man may be brought to act by these prin- 
ciples, partly by natural light, and more fully by 
Scripture light, without any true knowledge of the 
way of salvation by, Christ, and as if Christ had never 
come into the world. And he may be strictly bound 
by them, and vehemently urged and pressed to holy 
duties ; and yet, all this while, is left to his own na- 
tural strength, or rather weakness, being not assured 
by any of these principles, that God will give him 
strength to help him in the performance of these du- 
ties; and can do nothing aright, until he get new life 


and strength in Christ, if these principles were sufli- 


cient to bring us-to a holy conversation. Therefore, 
this manner of oat is no better than walking after 


the flesh, according to our corrupt state, and a seel- 


ing to be made perfect in the flesh. No question but 


Paul was very diligent in it, while he was a blind 


- Pharisee. Yea, the heathen philosophers might at- 


tain to it, in some measure, by the light of common 
reason. The devils have such principles, as they do 
believe assuredly, yet they are never the better for 


them. It is a part of that natural wisdom whereby 


the world knew not God, not that wisdom of God 
in a mystery, discovered in the gospel, which is the 
only satisfying wisdom and power of God unto salva- 
tion. What can you produce but corruption, by 
pressing with motives to holiness, one that hath no 
soundness in him, from the sole of the foot even to 
the head, only wounds, and bruises, and putrifying 


‘ sores. He that is made truly sensible of his own vile- 
- ness and deadness, by nature, will despair of ever 


bringing himself to holiness by principles that afford 
‘no life and strength, but only lay an obligation 
I 


Ne * Gal. ii. 20. Wii, 


280 THE GosPEL Mystury Direct, XII. 


upon him, and urge and press him to duty. What 
are mere obligations to one that is dead in sin? while 
the soul is without spiritual life, sin is the more moved 
and enraged, by pressing and urging upon the soul 
the obligations of the law and its commands, The 
motions of sin are by the law; and sin taking occasion . 
by the commandment, worketh in us all manner of 
concupiscence.* And yet these obliging principles 
are very good and excellent in this right gospel use of 
them : as the apostle saith of the law, that it is good, 
ifit be used lawfully.t The humbled sinner knoweth 
well his obligations ; but it is life and strength that 
he wanteth, and despaireth of walling according to 
such obligations, until he get this life and strength by 
faith in Christ. Therefore, these obliging principles 
do move him to go, in the first place, to Christ, that 
so he may be enabled to answer their end, by the 
strengthening and enlivening principles of God’s grace 
in Christ. Some there are that make use of gospel- 
principles, only to oblige and urge to duty, without 
affording any life and strength for the performance ; 
as they think that Christ died and rose ‘again to es- 
tablish a new covenant of works for our salvation, 
and to give usa pattern of good works by his own 
obedience, rather than to purchase life, obedience, 
and good works for us. Such as these do not under- 


Direct. XIT, OF SANCTIFICATION. 231 


him ; under the curse of the law, the power of sin 
and satan; having no better portion than this present 
world ; no better strength than that which is in the 
purposes and resolutions of your own free will, While 
such thoughts as these prevail, and influence your 
actings, it is evident that you walk according to the 
principles and practices of your old natural state; and 
you will be moved thereby to yield to the dominion 
of sin and satan, to withdraw yourselves from God and 
godliness, as Adam was moved, from the sight of his 
own nakedness, to hide himself from God.* There- 
fore, your way to a holy practice is first to conquer 
and expel such unbelieving thoughts, by trusting 
confidently on Christ, and Peponding yourselves by 
faith, that his righteousness, Spirit, glory, and all his 
spiritual benefits are yours ; and that he dwelleth in 
you and you in him, In the might of this confi- 
dence, you shall go forth to the performance of the 
law ; and you will be strong against sin and satan, 


and able to dojall things through Christ . that 


strengthens you. {This confident persuasion is of 


great necessity to the right framing and disposing 


LS». 
aa 


our hearts to walk according to our new state in 
Christ. The life of faith principally consisteth in 
it. And herein it eminently appeareth, that faith is 
a hand, not only to receive Christ, but also to work 
by him ; and that it cannot be effectual for our sanc- 
tification, except it contain in it some assurance of our 
interest in Christ, as hath been shewed. Thus we 
act as those that are above the sphere of nature, ad- 
vanced to union and fellowship with Christ. The 
apostle maintained in his heart a persuasion that Christ 
had loved him, and given himself for him, and thereby 
he was enabled to live to God in holiness, through 
Christ living in him by pet He teacheth us also 


~ that: we must maintain the like persuasion, if we 


would walk holily in Christ. We must know, that 
our old man is crucified with him; and we must 


aces * Gen. ili, 10. 


232 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XII, 


reckon ourselves dead indeed unto sin, and alive unto 
God through Jesus Christ our Lord.* This is the 
means whereby we may be filled with the Spirit, 
strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might ; 
which God would not require of us, if he had not ap- 
pointed the means.t Christ himself walked in a con- 
stant persuasion of his excellent state ; he set the 
Lord always before him, and was persuaded that, be- 
cause God was at his right hand, he should not be 
moved.{ How should it be rationally expected, that 
a man should act according to this new state, without 
assurance that he isin it? It is a rule of common 
prudence in all worldly callings and conditions, that 
every one must know and well consider his own state 
lest he should act proudly above it, or sordidly below 
it. And it isa hard thing to bring some to a right 
estimate of their own worldly condition. If the same 
rule were observed in spiritual things, doubtless the 
knowledge and persuasion of the glory and excellency 
of our new state in Christ, would more elevate the 
hearts of believers above all sordid slavery to their 
lusts, and enlarge them to run cheerfully the ways of 
God’s commandments. If Christians knew their own 
strength better, they would enterprise greater things 
for the glory of God. But this knowledge is diffi- 
cultly attained: it is only by faith and spiritual illu- 
minations. The best know but in part; and hence 1% 
is, that the conversation of believers falleth so much 
below their holy and heavenly calling. 

Siaxthly, Consider what endowments, privileges, or 
properties of your new state, are most meet and 
_ forcible to incline and strengthen your heart to love 


God above all, and to renounce all sin, and to give up ~ 


yourself to universal obedience to his commands; and 
strive to walk in the persuasion of them, that you 
may attain to the practice of these great duties. I 
may well join these together, because, to love the 


* Rom. vi, 6,11, Eph, vi,20. + Peal. xvi, 8. 


; bk as 
* ‘ ’ 
Direct. XIT. —_ oF Sancrrricatton. - 938 


Lord with all our hearts, might, and soul, is the first 
and great commandment, which influenceth us to all 
obedience, with a hatred and detestation of all sin, as 
it is contrary and hateful to God. The same effec- 
tual means that produceth the one, will also produce 
the other; and holiness chiefly consisteth in these. 
So the chief blessings of our holy state are most meet 
and forcible to enable us for the immediate perform- 
ance of them, and are to be made use of to this end \ 
by faith. Particularly, you must believe steadfastly, 
that all your sins are blotted out, and that you are 
- reconciled to God, and have access into his favour by 
the blood of Christ, and that he is your God and 
_ Father, and altogether love to you, and your all- 
sufficient everlasting portion and happiness through 
-Christ. Such apprehensions as these, do present 
God as a very lovely object to our hearts, and do 
thereby allure and win our affections, that cannot be 
forced by commands or threatenings, but must be 
sweetly won and drawn by allurements. We must 
_ not harbour any suspicions, that God will prove a 
terrible, everlasting enemy to us, if we would love 
him; for there is no fear in love; but perfect love 
casteth out fear, because fear hath torment ; he that ‘ 
feareth is not made perfect in love. We love him, 
because he first loved us.* David loved the Lord, 
because he was persuaded, that he was his strength, 
rock, fortress, his God, and the horn of his salvation. 
Love that causeth obedience unto the law, must pro- 
ceed from a good conscience purged’ from sin; and 
_ this good conscience must proceed from faith un- 
feigned, whereby we apprehend the remission of our 
sins, our reconciliation with God by the merits of the 
_ blood of Christ. For the same end, that your hearts 
may be rightly fitted and framed for the performance 
of these principal duties, the Holy Scripture directeth : 
you to walk in the persuasion of other principal en- 


> 4 . 
piv, 18,19. + Psal. xviii,J,2. $1 Tim.i, 5. Heb. ix, 14, 
LATS SSR oY -AESCE atOeP ee  e 


284 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. X11, 


dowments of your new state: as that you have fel- 
lowship with the Father, and with his Son Jesus 
Christ ;* that you are the temple of the living God ;t 
that you live by the Spirit ;+ that you are called to 
holiness, and created in Christ Jesus unto good 
works; that God will sanctify you wholly, and make 
you perfect in holiness at the last;§ that your old 
man is crucified with Christ; and through him you 
are dead unto sin, and alive unto God: and being 
made free from sin, you are become the servants of 
righteousness, and have your fruit unto holiness, and 
the end everlasting life ;{] ye are dead, and your life 
is hid with Christ in God. When Christ who is your 
life shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him 
in glory.4 Such persuasions as these, when they are 
deeply rooted and constantly maintained in our 
hearts, do strongly arm and encourage us to practise 
universal obedience,, in opposition to every sinful 
lust ; because we look upon it, not only as our duty, 
but our great privilege, to do all things through 
Christ strengthening us: and God doth certainly 
work in us both to will and to do by these prinei- 
wee because they properly belong to the gospel, or 
ew ‘T'estament, which is the ministration of the 
Spirit, and the power of God unto ype 
Seventhly, Wor the performance of other duties of 
the law, you are to consider, not only these endow- 
ments, privileges, and properties of your new state, 
which are meet and foreible to enable you to the love 
of God, and universal obedience, but also those that 
have a peculiar force and aptitude suitable to the 
special nature of such duties: and you must endea- 
vour to assure yourselves of them by faith, that you 
may be encouraged and strengthened to perform the 
duties. I shall give you some instances of this man- 


*)Johni,3. +2Cor.vi,16. tGal.y,25. §1 Thess, y, 23.” 
Eph, ji, 10. || Rom. vi, 22, f Col. iii, 3,4, [2 Cor. iii, 6,8. 
Rom. i, 16. ¢ pl a 


ie oe 


es 
Direct. ATI, OF SANCTIFICATION, 235 


ner of practice in several duties, whereby you may 
the better understand how to guide yourselves in the 
rest. And, as to the duties of the first table, if you 
would draw near to God in a duty of his worship 
with a true heart, you must do it in full assurance of 
faith concerning your enjoyment of Christ, and his 
salvation. And would you perform the great duty 
of trusting on the Lord with all your heart, casting 
your care upon him, and committing the disposal of 
yourself to him in all you~ concerns, persuade your- 
self, through Christ, that God, according to his pro- 
mise, will never fail you, nor forsake you; that he 
taketh a fatherly care of you, that he will withhold 


no good thing from you; and will make all things to — 


work for your good. And thus you will be strong 


and courageous in the practice of this duty : whereas, . 


‘if you live in a mere suspense concerning your inte- 
rest in the privileges, you will be subject to carnal 
fears, and carking cares, in despite of your heart ; and 
you will be prone to trust on the arm of flesh, though 
your conscience tell you plainly, that, in so doing, 
rh incur the heinous guilt of idolatry. Would you 

e strengthened to submit to the hand of God with a 
cheerful patience, in bearing any affliction, and death 
itself; the way to fortify yourselves, is, to believe 
assuredly, that your afflictions, which are but for a 
moment, do work for you a far more exceeding and 
eternal weight of glory ; that Christ is your gain in 
death and ‘life: that his grace is stifficient for you, 
and his strength made perfect in your weakness; and 
that he will not suffer you to be tempted above that 
you are able; and will at last make you more than 

conquerors over all evil. Until you attain to such 
persuasions as these, you\will be prone to fret and 
murmur under the burden of affliction, and to use 
indirect means to deliver yourselves, notwithstanding 

e clearest convictions to the contrary. Would you 

it yourselves to the observations of God’s own in- 

8 in, 


ee 


\} 


his worship, believe that you are com- 


5 eb AP 5 
bg “das ; - 
s « aed 


236 THE GOSPEL Mystery Direct. XII. 


plete in Christ, and have all perfection of spiritual 
blessings in him; and that God will build you up in 
Christ by the ordinances of his own appointment, 
This will make you account his ordinances sufficient, 
and mens traditions and inventions needless in the 
worship of God: whereas, if you do not ens 
all fulness in Christ, you will be like the Papists, 
prone to catch at every straw, and to multiply super- 
stitious observations without end, for the supply of 
your spiritual wants. Would you confess your sins 
to God? pray to him, and praise him heartily for his 
benefits; would you praise him for affliction, as well 
as prosperity? believe assuredly that God is faithful 
and just to forgive your sin through Christ; that you 
are made a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacri- 
fices of prayer and praises, that are acceptable to God 
through Christ: and that God heareth your prayers, 
and will fulfil them, so far as they are good for you; 
and that all God’s ways are mercy and truth toward 
you, whether he prosper or afflict you in this life. 
If you be altogether in doubt, or otherwise persuaded, 
concerning these privileges, all your confessions, 
prayers, and praises, will be but heartless lip-labours, 
slavish or pharisaical works, In.like manner, you 
will be enabled to hear and receive the word as the 
word of God, and to meditate on it with delight ; and 
you will be willing to know the strictness and spiri- 
twality of the commands of God, and to try and ex- 
amine your ways impartially by them, if you believe 
assuredly, that the word is the power of God unto 
salvation; and that Christ is your great physician, 
willing and able to heal you, be the case never so bad ; 
and, where your sin abounds, his grace towards you 
doth so much the more abound: whereas, without 
these comfortable apprehensions, all the works of 
hearing, meditation, self-examination, will be but un- 
couth heartless works, and they will be performed 
negligently, and by halves, or hypocritically, and out 
- of slavish fear, with much reluctancy, without any — 


ere air Le 


a , 


Direct, XIT. OF SANCTIFICATION. 237 


good will, or readiness of mind. So also, for the right 
receiving the sacraments, you will find yourselves 
much strengthened by believing, that you may have 
communion with God and Christ in them, and that 
you have a great High Priest, to bear the iniquity of 
your holy things, and to make you for ever accepted 
hefore the Lord. 
In the same way, you are to apply yourselves to 
all duties towards your neighbour, required in the 
second table of the ie by. acting in a persuasion of 
such privileges of your new estate as have a peculiar 
force to encourage and strengthen you for the per- 
formance of them. That you may tek your neigh- 
bour as yourself, and do to him in all things as you 
would he should do to you, without partiality and 
self-seeking ; that you may give him his due honour, 
and abstain from injuring him in his life, chastity, 
worldly estate, good name, or from coveting anything 
that is his, according to several commands in the se- 
cond table of the decalogue; you must walk ina 
persuasion, not only that these things are just and 
equitable toward your fellow-creatures, and that you 
are strictly bound to the performance of them; but 
that they are the will of your heavenly Father, who 
hath begotten you according to his own image in 
righteousness and true holiness, and hath given you 
his Spirit, that you may be like-minded to him in all 
things; and that they are the mind of Christ, who 
dwelleth in you, and you in him ; that God and Christ 
are kind, tender hearted, long-suffering, full of good- 
ness to men, whether good or bad, friends or enemies, 
poor or rich; and that Christ came into the world, 
not to destroy, but to save, and that you are of the 

same Spirit; that the injuries done to you by your 
- neighbours, can do you no harm; and you need not 
_ seek any good for yourselves by injuring them, be- 
_ cause you have all desirable happiness in Christ ; and 
all things, though intended by your enemies for hurt, 
rtain rk for your good through Christ. Such 


‘ 


x 


28 THE GOSPEL Mystery - Direct. XII. 


apprehensions as these, wrought in us by the spirit 
of faith, do certainly beget in us a right frame of spirit, 
thoroughly furnished for every good work towards 
our neighbour. Likewise your hearts will be puri- 
fied to unfeigned love of the brethren in Christ, and 
you will walk toward them with all lowliness, meek- 
ness, long-suffering, forbearing one another in love, 
if you maintain a stedfast belief and persuasion of 
those manifold bonds of love, whereby you are inse- 
parably joined with them through Christ ; as particu- 
larly, that there is one body, and one Spirit, one hope 
of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one 
God and Father of all, who is above all, and through 
all, and in you all. Finally,, you will be able to ab- 
stainfrom all fleshly and worldly lusts, that war against 
the soul, and hinder all godliness, by an assured persua- 
sion, not merely, that gluttony, drunkenness, lechery, 
are filthy swinish abominations; and that the -plea- 
sures, profits, and honours of the world, are vain 
empty things; but that you are crucified to the flesh 
and the world, and quickened, raised, and sit in heay- 
enly places together with Christ ; and that you have 
pleasures, profits, and honours in Christ, to whicn the 
best things in the world are not worthy to be com- 
pared ; and that you are members of Christ, the temple 
of his Spirit, citizens of heaven, children of the day, 
not of the night, nor of darkness, so that it is below 
your state and dignity to practise deeds of darkness, 
and mind fleshly worldly things. Thus I have given 
instances enough, to stir you up to acquaint your- 
selves with the manifold endowments, privileges, pro- 
perties of your new state in Christ, as they are disco- 
vered in the gospel of your salvation, whereby the 
new nature is fitted for holy operations; as the com- 
mon nature of man is furnished with the endow- 
ments necessary for those functions and operations to 
which it is designed; and also to stir you up, to make 


use of them by faith, as they serve to strengthen you ~ 


j 


either for universal obedience, or for particular duties 


eT. OF SANCTIFICATION. 239 


And, by this manner of walking, your hearts will be 
comforted, and established in every good word and 
work ; and you will grow in holiness, until you attain 
to perfection in Jesus Christ. 

Highthly, If you endeavour to grow in grace and 
in all holiness, trust assuredly, that God will enable 
you, by this manner of walking, to do everything 
that is necessary for his glory, and your own ever- 
lasting salyation; and that he will graciously accept 
of that. obedience through.Christ which you are 
enabled to perform according to the measure of your 
faith, and pardon your failings, though you offend in 
many things, and fall short of many others, as to de- 

es Of holiness, and high acts of obedience. And 

_ therefore attempt not the performance of duty in any 
other way, though you cannot yet attain to do so 
much as you would in this way, ‘This is a necessary 
instruction to establish us in the life of faith, that the 
sense of our manifold failings and defects may not 
moye us either to despair, or to return to the use of 
carnal principles and means, for help against our cor- 
ruptions, as accounting this way of living and act- 
ing by faith, to be insufficient for our sanctification 
_ and salvation. The apostle Paul exhorts the Gala- 
tians to wall in the Spirit, though the flesh lust 
against the Spirit, so that they cannot do the things 
that they would.* Weare to know, that though the 
law requireth of us the utmost perfection of holiness, 
yet the Cee te maketh an allowance for our weak- 
- ness, and Christ is so meek and lowly in heart, that 
he aecepteth of that which our weak faith can attain 
_ to by his grace, and doth not exact or expect any 
more of us for his glory and our salvation, until we 


. 


ence to his people under the Old Testament, that 

Ricceiste law-giver suffered them, because of the hard- 

085 0 their hearts, to put away their wives, though 
tn 


as 


=x 


row stronger in grace. God shewed his great indul-— 


240 THE GOSPEL MystERY = Direct. XII, 
from the beginning it was not so ;* and also in tolerating 
the customary practice of polygamy. Though Christ 
will not tolerate the continuance of such practices in 
his church, since his Spirit is more plentifully poured 
forth under the gospel; yet he is as forward as ever, 
to bear with the failings of his weak saints, that de- 
sire to obey him sincerely. We have another in- 
stance of God’s indulgence, more full to our present 
purpose, in his commanding, that the fearful and 
‘aint-hearted should not be forced to enter into battle 
against their enemies, but suffered to return home to 
their houses; though fighting in battle against their 
enemies, without fear and faint-heartedness, was a 
duty that God did much exercise his people in at that 
time.t So, under the gospel, though it be an emi- 
nent part of Christ’s service, to endure the greatest 
fight of afflictions, and death itself courageously, for 
his name’s sake; yet if any be so weak in faith, that 
they have not sufficient courage to venture into the 
battle, no doubt but Christ alloweth them to make 
use of any honest means, whereby they may escape 
the hands of persecutors, with safety to their holy 
profession. He will accept them in this weaker kind 
of service, and will approve of them better, than if 
they should hazard a denial of his name, by venturing 
themselves upon the trial of martyrdom, when they 
might have escaped it. Peter came off with sin and 
shame, by venturing, beyond the measure of his faith, — 
into the hands of his persecutors, when he went after 

Christ to the High Priest’s hall; whereas he should 

rather have made use of that indulgent dismission 

that Christ gave to him and the rest of his disciples ; 

Let these go their way.{ Christ dealeth with his 

people as a good careful shepherd, that will not over- 

drive his sheep: “ He will gather the lambs with his 

arm, and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently — 
lead those that are with young.”’§ He would not — 


* Matt. xix, 3. + Deut, xx, 3, 8, ¢ John xvii 


have his disciples urged rigorously upon the duty of 

fasting when their spirits were unfit for it; because 
he knew, that imposing duties above their strength, 
is like putting a piece of new cloth into an old gar- 
ment, and new wine into old bottles; which spoileth 
all at last.* That prevept of Solomon, Be not 
righteous overmuch,t is very useful and necessary, if 
rightly understood. We are to beware of being too 
rigorous in exacting righteousness of ourselves and 
others, beyond the measure of faith and grace, Over- 


~ doing commonly proveth undoing. Children that 


7 


venture on their feet beyond their strength, have 
many a fall; and so have babes in Christ, when they 
venture unnecessarily upon such duties as are beyond 
the strength of their faith. We should be content, 
at present, to do the best that we can, according to 
the measure of the gift of Christ, though we know, 
that others are enabled to do much better; and we 
are not to despise the day of small things, but to 
praise God, that he worketh in us anything that is 
well pleasing in his sight, hoping that he will sanctify 
us throughout, and bring us at last to perfection of 
holiness through Jesus Christ our Lord. And we 


should carefully observe, in all things, that good les- 


son of the apostle, “not to think of ourselves more 
highly than we ought to think; but to think soberly, 
according as God hath dealt to every man the mea- 
sure of faith.” + , 


i _DIRECTION XIII. 

Endeavour diligently to make the right use of all means appointed in 
the word of God, for the obtaining and practising holiness, only in 

_ this way of believing in Christ, and walking in him according to 

your new state by faith. 


_EXPLICATION.. 
t have been added to the instructions in 


242 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XIII. 


use is the same, to guide us in the mysterious manner 
of practising holiness in Christ, by the life of faith; © 
but the weight and comprehensiveness of it, maketh 
it worthy to be treated of by itself, as a distinct 
direction. Two things are observable in it. 

Firsr, That though all holiness be effectually at- 
tained by the life of faith in Christ, yet the use of 
any means appointed in the word for attaining and 
promoting holiness is not hereby made void, but 
rather established. This is needful to be observed 
against the pride and ignorance of some carnal gospel- 
lers, who, being puffed up with a conceit of their 
feigned faith, imagine themselves to be in such a state 
of perfection, that they are above all ordinances ex- 
cept singing hallelujahs ; and also against the Papists, 
that run into the contrary extreme, by heaping to- 
gether a multitude of means of holiness which God 
never commanded, neither ever came they into his 
heart, and that slander the Protestant doctrine of 
faith, and free grace, as if it tended to destroy all dili- 
gent use of the means of holiness and salvation, and 
to breed up a company of ‘laxy Solifidians. We do 
indeed assert and profess, that a true and lively faith 
in Christ is alone sufficient and effectual, through the 

race of God, to receive Christ and all his fullness, so 
far as is necessary in this life, for our justification, 
sanctification, and eternal salvation; but yet we also 
assert, and profess, that several means are appointed 
of God for the begetting, maintaining, and increasing 
this faith, and the acting and exercising it, in order 
to the attainment of its end; and that these means 
~ are to be used dilligently, which are mentioned in the 
sequel. True believers find by experience, that their 
faith needeth such helps: and they that think them- 
selves above any need of them, do reject the counsel 
of God against themselves, like to those proud Phari-_ 
sees and lawyers, that thought it a thing beneath — 
them, and refused to be baptized of John.* Yet we — 


f 


Luke vii, 30. vin 


a 
jae: 
= 


Direct, XIII. OF SANCTIFICATION. 243 


account no means necessary or lawful to be used for 
the attainment of holiness, besides those that are ap- 
pointed by God in his word. We know, that holi- 
ness is a part of our salvation; and therefore they 
that think men may or can invent any means effec- 
tually for the attainment of it, do ascribe their salva- 
tion partly to men, and rob God of his glory in being 
our only Saviour; and they do thereby plainly shew, 
that though they draw nigh unto God with their 
mouth, and honour him with their lips; yet their 
hearts are far from him. And in vain do they wor- 
ship him, teaching for doctrines the commandments 
of men.* 

The seconp thing observable, and principally de- 
signed, in this direction, is, the right manner of using 
all the means of holiness, for the obtaining and practi- 
sing it in no other way besides that of believing in 
Christ, and walking in him according to our new state 
by faith ; which hath been already demonstrated to be 
the only way whereby we m2 effectually attain to 
this great end. We must use them as helps to the life 
of faith, in its beginning, continuance, and growth; 
and as instruments subservient to faith, the principal 
instrument in all it acts and exercises, whereby the 
soul receiveth Christ, and walketh in all holiness by 
him. We must beware, lest we use them rather in 
nL esa than in subordination to the way of sanc- 
tification and salvation by free grace in Christ through 

faith; and lest, by our abuse of them, they be made 
_ rather hinderances than helps to our faith. We must 
_ not idolize any of the means, and put them into the 

place of Christ, as the Papists do, by trusting in 
them ; as if they were effectual to confer grace to the 
soul, by the work that is done in the use of them. 

Neither may we use them as works of righteousness, 
_ to be performed as conditions for the procuring the 
favour of God, and the salvation of Christ. Neither 


i | * Matt. xv, 7, 9. 


- 


sy 


Ly : * , . 
244 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XITI, 


must they be accounted so absolutely necessary to 
salvation, as if a true faith were void, and of none 
effect, when we are debarred from the enjoyment of. 
several of them. The Holy Scriptures, 4vith all the 
means of grace appointed therein, are able to make 
us wise unto salvation, no other way than by faith in 
~ Jesus Christ.* And therefore our wise endeavour 
must be, not to use them in any opposition to the 
grace of God in Christ. For God’s ordinances are — 
like the cherubims of glory, made with their faces 
looking towards the mercy seat. They are made 
to guide us to Christ for salvation by faith alone. 
If any turn them to another use, it is a great viola- 
tion of divine institutions; as if any sacrilegious 
ee had presumed to turn the faces of the cheru- 
ims from the mercy-seat some other way. This 
right use of the means of grace, is a point wherein 
many are ignorant, that use them with great zeal and 
diligence; and thereby they do not only lose their 
labour and the benefit of the means, but also they 
wrest and pervert them to their own destruction, 
The Jews, under the law of Moses, enjoyed many 
more ordinances of divine worship than we do under 
the gospel; but their table became their snare, and 
they fell miserable from God and Christ because the 
vail of ignorance was upon their hearts, that they 
could not look to the nd of those ordinances, even to 
the Lord Jesus Christ; and they sought not salvation 
by faith, but by the ordinances, as works of righte- 
ousness, and by other works of the law; for they stum- 
bled at the stumbling stone.t That you may not stum- 
ble and fall by the same pernicious error, I shall shew 
eel how several of the principal means of — 
oliness appointed in the word of God, are to be made . 
use of in that right manner expressed in the direction, 
Firstly, We must endeavour diligently toknow the ~ 
word of God contained in the Holy Seripture, and to - 


* 2 Tim. iii, 15. t Rom. ix, 31, 32, and x, 4, 5. 2 Cor. fii, 13, 14. 
‘ aa 


| tO peleNe | he re 


Direct. XIII, OF SANCTIFICATION. 245 


improve it to this end, that we may be made wise 
unto salvation, throngh faith which is in Christ 
Jesus.* Other means of salvation are necessary to 
the more abundant well-being of our faith, and that 
of our new state in Christ; but this is absolutely 
necessary to the being thereof: because faith 
cometh by hearing the word of God, and receiveth 
Christ as manifested by the word; as I haye before 
seeing Rahab the Canaanite was justified by faith, 

efore she had any visible communioa with the 
church, in any of God’s ordinances; yet not without 
the word of God, even the same word, for substance, 
which was written in the Scriptures, and was then 
extant in the books of Moses; though that word was 
not brought to her by any book of Holy Scripture, 
nor by tie preaching of any holy minister, but by 
the report of the Heathens.t But here our great 
work must be, to get such a knowledge of the Word 
as is necessary and sufficient to guide us in receiving 
Christ, and walking in him by faith. You must not 


be of their minds that think the knowledge of the 


Ten Commandments to be sufficient to salvation, or 
that would have mysteries to remain hid from the 
understanding of the vulgar, and nothing to be 
preached to them, but what they can readily assent 
to, and receive by the light that is in all men; of which 
mind, it may be, some ministers are, who unwittingly 
agree with the Quakers in a fundamental of their 
heresy. But you must endeavour chiefly to know 
the mystery off the Father and the Son, as it is dis- 
covered in the gospel, wherein are hid all the treasures 
of wisdom and knowledge;{ which to know, is life 
eternal; and the ignorance of it, is death eternal. 

You must know, that Christ is the end of the law;| 


and therefore you must endeavour to know the com- 
‘mands of the law; not that you may be enabled, by 


” 2 Tim, iii, 15. t Josh. ii, 9, 11. t Col. fi, 2, 3, 
§ John xvii, 3. 2 Cor.iv,3. © || Rom x, 4, 
x 2 


\ 


ta a s 


Sa en oe 
Che Sey 
fee 


" S eS ; 3 
246 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XIII, 


that knowledge, to practise them immediately and so 
to procure salvation by your works; but rather, by 
your knowledge of them, you may be made sensible 
of your inability to perform them, and of the enmity 
that is in your heart against them, and the wrath 
“that you are under for breaking them, and the 
impossibility of being saved by your own works; 
that so you may fly to Christ for refuge, and trust 
only to the free grace of God for justification, and 
strength to fulfil the law acceptably through Christ 
in your conversation, And, for this end, you must 
endeavour to learn the utmost strictness of the com- 
mands, the exact perfection and_ spiritual purity 
which they require, that you may be the more con- 
vinced of sin, and stirred up to seek unto Christ for 
remission of sin, for purity of heart, and spiritual 
obedience, and be brought nearer to the enjoyment of 
him; as Christ testified, that the Scribe, who under- 
stood the greatness of that command of loving the 
Lord with all the heart and soul, was not far from 
the kingdom of God.* ‘The most effectual knowledge 
for your salvation, is, to understand these two points; 
the desperate sinfulness and misery of your own natu- 
ral condition, and the alone sufficiency of the grace of 
God in Christ for your salvation; that you may be 
abased as to the fresh, and exalted in Christ alone. 
And, for the better understanding these two main 
points, you should learn how the first Adam was the 
figure of the second ;+ how sin and death came upon 
all the natural seed of the first Adam, by his disobe- 
dience in eating the forbidden fruit, and how righ- 
teousness and everlasting hfe come upon all the 
spiritual seed of the second Adam, Jesus Christ, by 
his obedience unto death, even the death of the cross. 
You also should learn the true difference between 
the two covenants, the old and the new, or the law 
and the gospel: that the former shutteth us up under 


* Matt. xii, 34. } Romy, 14, 


~ 


ww 


Direct. XII. OF SANCTIFICATLON. 247 


the guilt and power of sin, and the wrath of God and 
his curse, by its rigorous terms, “Do all the com- 


“mandments, and live ;” and, ‘ Cursed are you, if you 


do them not, and fail in the least point;” the latter 
openeth the gates of righteousness and life to all he- 
believers sae is, the new covenant) by its gracious 
terms, “ Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, und live; 
that is, All your sins shall be forgiven, and holiness 
and glory shall be given to you freely by his merit 
and Spirit.” Furthermore, you should learn the 
gospel principles that you are to walk by, for the 
attainment of holiness in Christ. And here I shall 
mind you particularly, that you would be a good 
proficient in Christain learning, if you get a good 
understanding of the sixth and seventh chapters of 
the apostle Paul to the Romans; where the powerful 
principles of sanctification are purposely treated of, 
and differenced from those weak and ineffectual prin- 
ciples which we are most naturally prone to walk by. 
I need not particularly commend any other points of 
religion to your learning; for, if you get the know- 
ledge of these principal points which I have men- 
tioned, and improve it to a right end, which is, to live 
and walk by faith in Christ, your-own renewed mind 
will covet the knowledge of all other things that 
appertain to life and godliness; and, if in anything 

ou be otherwise minded than is according to saving 
truth, God shall reveal even this unto you.* Yet let 
me caution you, instead of gaining Christ by your 
knowledge, you rather lose ‘him, By putting your 
knowledge in the place of Christ and trusting to it 
for your salvation. One cause of the Jews perishing 


- was, that they rested in a form of knowledge, and of 


the truth in the law.t And, doubtless, all that 


_ many Christians will gain by their knowledge in the 


aM 
i 


. 

rit 

ai? 
, 


end, will only be, to be beaten with more stripes; 
because they place their religion and salvation chiefly 
ee 


* Phil, iii, 15, + Rom. ii, 20 


sO See 


248 THE GOSPEL MysTERY Direct. NUIT. 


in the knowledge of their Lord’s will, and in their 
ability to talk and dispute of it, without preparing 
themselves to do according thereunto.* Much less 
are you to place your religion, and hope of salvation, 
in a daily task of reading chapters, or repeating ser- 
mons, without understanding more than the Papists 
do their lessons in the Latin Mass, and canonical 
hours: as sad experience sheweth, that many seem- 
ingly devout and frequent hearers of the word, do not- 
withstanding, remain in lamentable and wonderful 
ignorance of the saving truth. And in them is fulfill- 
ed the prophecy of Esaias, “that, in hearing, they 
shall hear and not understand: and, in seeing, they 
shall see, &e.”+ 

Secondly, Another means to be used diligently for 
the promoting the life of faith, is examination of our 
state and ways according to the word; whether we 
be, at present, in a state of sin and wrath, or of grace 
and salvation; that, if we be in a state of sin, we may 
know our sickness, and come to the great. Physician, 
while it is called to-day ; and, if we be ina state of 
grace, we may know that we are of the truth, and 
assure our hearts before God with the greater confi- 
dence, by the testimony of a good conscience ;{ that 
so our hearts may be more strongly comforted b 
faith, and established in every good work, and that, 
if our ways be evil, we may turn from them to the_ 
Lord our God through Christ; without whom none 
cometh to the Father.§ But your great care, in this 
work of self-examination, must be, to perform it in 
such a manner, that it may not hinder and destroy 
that life of faith, as it doth in many, instead of pro- 
moting it. Therefore beware, lest you trust upon 
your self-examination, rather than upon Christ; as — 
some do, that think they have made their peace with 
God, merely because they have examined themselves 


* Luke xii, 47. + Matt. xiii, 14, 15, $1 John iii, 19,2). | 
§ Lam. ili, 40, John xiy, 6, a 


7. F~ 3% . ai a hs rm — 


f a id 


Direct. XII. OF SANCTIFICATION. 249 


upon their sick-bed, or before the receiving of the 
Lord’s supper, though they haye themselves stark 
naught, and do not depend on Christ, to make them 
better, but their own deceitful purposes and resolu- 
tions. Think not, that you must begin this work 
with doubting whether God will extend merey to 
you, and save you; and that you must leave this a 
question wholly under debate, until you have found 
out how to resolve it by self-examination. This isa 
common and very pernicious error in the yery founda- 
tion of this work, which is hereby Jaidin the great 
sin of unbelief; which, as soon as it prevaileth, doth, . 
by its great influence, dash and obscure all inward 
gracious qualifications of peace, hope, joy, love to 
God and his ‘people, before they be at ath tried, whe- 
ther they can give any good evidence for their sal- 
vation. And it makes people willing to think their 
own qualifications better than they are, lest they 
should fall into an utter despair of their salvation: 
and thus it wholly marreth the good work of self- 
examination, and maketh it destructive to our souls ; 
for to them that are defiled and unbelieving, there is 
nothing pure.* You should rather begin the work 
with much assurance of faith, that though you may 
at present find your heart never so wicked and repro- 
bate, (as many of God’s choicest servants have found, ) 
yet the door of mercy is open for you, and that God 
will certainly save you for ever, if you put your trust 
in his grace through Christ. I have formerly shewed, 
that this confident persuasion is of the nature of say- 
ing faith (and that we have sufficient ground for it in 
the free promises of the porpel) when we walk in 
darkness, and can see no light shining forth in our 
gracious qualifications. If we begin the work with 
this confidence, it will make us impartial and not 
afraid to find out the worst of ourselves, and willing 
to judge, that our hearts are deceitful above all things, 


—* Tite i, 15, 


« shone 5. 
R } heer 


ee | 
eke 


. 


te 
bh vena 4 ees 
Ob ete Py eS ey ee ee ee 


250 THE GOSPEL MystpRY Direct. XIII. 


and desperately wicked, beyond what we can find 
out.* And, if we have any holy qualifications, this 
confidence will preserve them in their vigour and 
brightness, that they may be able to give clear evi- 
dence, that we are at present in a state of grace. 
Mark well the difference between these two questions ; 
Whether God will graciously accept and save me, 
though a vile sinner, through Christ ; as before was 
said? and, Whether I am already brought into a state 
of salvation? The former of these, I say, is to be re- 
solved affirmatively by a confident faith in Christ ; the 
latter only is to be inquired into by self-examination. 
Mis-spend not your time, as many do, in poring upon 
your hearts to find whether you be good enough to 
trust on Christ for your salvation, or to find whether 
you have any faith, before you dare be so bold as to 
act faith in Christ. But know, that though you can- 
not find that you have any faith or holiness, yet, if 
you will now believe on him that justifieth the un- 
godly, it shall be accounted to you for righteousness.- 
And, if you love Christ and your own soul, mis-spend 
not your time in examining whether you have com- 
mitted the unpardonable sin against the Holy Ghost, 
except it be with a full purpose to assure yourself 
more and more, that you are not guilty thereof ; for 
any doubtfulness in this point, will but harden you 
in unbelief. Remember well, that the question to be 
resolved, is, whether you be at present in a state of 
grace ? and, to resolve it, you must be willing to know 
the best of yourself as well as the worst: and you 
must not think, that humility bindeth you to over- 
look your good qualifications, and to take notice only 
of your corruptions. But your great work must be, 
to find whether there be not some drop of saving grace 
in the ocean of your corruption. And it will consist 
well with humility, to take notice of, and own any 
spark of true holiness that is in you; because the — 


* Jer. xvii, 9. + Rom. iv, 5, 


ee eye eo ay, “toy, bbe ae \ 7 


Direct, XII. OF SANCTIFICATION, 351 


praise and glory of it belongeth not to you, but to 
God.* And you must try inherent grace by the 
touchstone, not by the measure ; by its nature, not 
its degree; not denying any lustings of the Spirit in 
you, because of the strong lustings of the flesh against 
the Spirit ; nor denying that you are spiritual in some 
degree, and babes in Christ, because you find your- 
selyes carnal in a more prevailing degree, and the old 
man bigger than the new.t Especially, you are to 
examine and prove, whether you be in the faith. 
For, if you make sure of this, you make sure of all 
the things that pertain to life and godliness; and, if 
you joan of this, you will certainly doubt of the 
truth of any other qualifications, and will suspect 
them to be merely carnal and counterfeit ; because it 
is a known truth, that to the unbelieving there is no- 
thing pure, and that all that have not truly received 
Christ by faith, are at present in an unregenerate 
state, though they seem never so pure and godly.+ 
And let not the issue of this trial depend at all upon 
your knowledge of the time when, or of the sermon, 
conference, or place of scripture, by which you were 
first converted to the faith: though that is good to 
know too, if it may be. And some who have former- 
ly lived in gross ignorance, or in a manifest opposition 
to true faith and holiness, may know such cireum- 
stances of their conversion, and may reflect upon them 
comfortably, as the apostle Paul did, who was turned 
of a sudden, from his persecuting rage, to be a disciple 
and an apostle of Christ ; yet others, sincere believers, 
may be wholly nen of them, as John the Bap- 
tist, who was filled with the Holy Ghost from his 
mother’s womb ;§ and they that have been trained u 
religiously, and know the Holy Scripture from their 
childhood, as Timothy ;|| yea, and many that are first 
turned from gross ignorancé and profaneness, to some ; 


: “*® Phil, i, 1. + Gal. v, 17. 1 Cor. ii, 1. 
«$2 Cor. xiii, 5. Titi,15. §Lukei,15, | 2 Tim. ili, 15. 


~ 
p 


: ae 
Mee lea 
CE gO 


5 ye, ac wks < 


252 THE GOSPEL Mystery Direct. XIII. 


external reformation, and then, in process of time, 
brought nearer to the kingdom of heaven, by insensi- 
ble degrees, before they be really new-begotten by 
the spirit of faith. There are also some that deceive 
their souls, by imagining they know at what time, 
and by what text of Scripture, they were converted, 
and can make large discourses of the workings of God 
upon their hearts, and are prone to talk unséasonably, 
with vain-glorying of their own experiences; when, 
at last, all their experiences are not sufficient to evi- 
dence, that they ever attained to the least measure of 
true saving faith. 

» Therefore, that we may not unjustly condemn or 
justify our faith, by proceeding on insufficient eviden- 
ces in its trial, our best way is, to examine itself by 
the inseparable properties of a true saving faith, by. 
putting to ourselves such questions as these: Are we 
made thoroughly sensible of our sinfulness, and of the 
deadness and misery of our natural state, so as to des- 
aye! absolutely of ever attaining to any righteousness, 
1oliness, or true happiness, while we continue in it? 
Are the eyes of our understanding enlightened, to see 
the excellency of Christ, and the alone sufficiency and 
all-sufficiency of his grace for our salvation? Do we 
prefer the enjoyment of him above all things, and de- 
sire it with our whole heart, as our only happiness, 
whatsoever we may suffer for his sake? Do we de- 
sire with our whole heart, to be delivered from the 
power and practice of sin, as well as from the wrath 
of God, and the pains of hell? Do our hearts come 
to Christ, and lay hold on him for salvation, by trust- 
ing him only, and seer to trust on him con- 
fidently, notwithstanding all fears and doubts that 
assault us? If you find in yourself a faith that hath 
these properties, though as small asa grain of mustard 
seed, and opposed with much unbelief and manifold — 
corruptionsin your soul, you may conclude, that you - 
are ina state of salvation at present, and that your 
remaining work is, to continue and grow in it more 


Direct. XTIL, OF SANCTIFICATION, 258 


and more, and to walk worthy of it. You should also 
examine the fruits of your faith, and try whether 
you can shew your faith by your works, as you are 
taught ;* that you may be sure not to be deceived in 
your judgment concerning it. And though it be 
true, as I have noted, that doubts concerning your 
faith will breed doubting concerning the sincerity of 
other qualifications that are fruits thereof; yet pos- 
sibly you may get such clear evidences of your sin- 
cerity, as may overcome and. expel all your doubts. 
And here you are not only to inquire, whether your 
inclinations, purposes, affections, and actions, be ma- 
terially good and holy; but also, by what principles 
they are bred and influenced; whether it be by sla- 
vish fears of hell, and mercenary hopes of getting 
heaven by your works, which are legal and carnal 
principles that can never breed true holiness; or by 
gospel-principles, as by love to God, because God hath 
loved you first, and to Christ, because he hath died ; 
and by the hope of eternal life, as the free gift of God 
through Christ, and dependence on God, to sanctify 
you by his Spirit according to his promises. Remem- 
ber, that the New Testament is the ministration of 
the Spirit ;f and the Spirit will sanctify us, not by 
legal, but by gospel principles. Take notice farther, 
that you need not trouble yourself to find out a mul- 
titude of marks and 2 of true grace, if you can 
find a few good ones. Particularly, you may know, 
that you are passed from death to life, if you love the 
brethren.{ That is, if you love all whom you can 
in charity judge to be true believers, and that because 
they are true Believers, and for the truth’s sake that 
dwelleth in them. As Solomon discerned the true 
mother of the child, by her affection towards her child, 
so the mother-grace of faith may be discerned by the 
love that it breeds in us towards all true believers. 
‘To conclude this point, happy are you if yon can find 


* Jam. ii, 18. 2 Cor. iff, 6. £1 Jobn iii, 14, 


~ 


i ii TET iS Gitte Sal 


‘ 


254 THE GOSPEL MysteRY Direct, XIII. 


so much evidence of the fruits of your faith as may 
enable you to express your sincerity in these mode- 
rate terms, “ Pray for us: for we trust we have a good 
conscience, in all things willing to live honestly.”* 
Thirdly, Meditation on the word of God is of very 
great use and advantage for the attainment and prac- 
tice of holiness through faith in Christ. It is a duty - 
whereby the soul doth feed and ruminate upon the 
word as its spiritual food, and digesteth it, and turneth 
it into nourishment, whereby we are strengthened for 
every good work. Our souls are satisfied therewith, 
as with marrow and fatness, when we remember God 
upon our beds, and meditate on him in the night- 
watches.t The new nature may well be called the 
mind,{ because it liveth and acteth by minding and 
meditating on spiritual things. Therefore it isa duty 
to be practised, not only at-some limited times, but 
all the day ;§ yea, day and night;|| even in our ordi- 
nary employments at home and abroad. An habitual 
knowledge of the world will not profit us, without an 
active minding it by frequent meditation. Some 
think that much preaching of the word is not needful, 
where a people are already brought to the knowledge — 
of those things that are necessary to salvation. But — 
they that are regenerated by the word, find by expe- — 
rience, that their spiritual life is maintained and in- — 
creased by often minding the same word: and therefore — 
as new-born babes, they desire the sincere milk of the — 
word that they may grow thereby,4 and would by ~ 
the preachers be put often inremembrance of the same — 
things, that they may feed upon them by meditation, — 
though they know them already, and are established ’ 
in the present truth.[| But here our greatest skill i 
and chiefest concernment lies, in practising this duty — 
in such a manner, as that it may be subservient, and — 
not at all opposite to the life of faith. We must not 
rely upon the performance of a daily task of meditatior 


* Heb. xiii, 18, t Psal. Ixiii, 5, 6. } Rom. vii, 25. 
$ Psal. cxix, 97. | Psat. i,-2.  APetniya ] 2 Pet. i, 125 


bo 


Direct. XIII, —_ oF SANCTIFICATION. 255 
as a work of righteousness for the procurement of the 
favour of God, instead of relying on the righteousness 
of Christ ; as indeed we are prone to do, to catch at any 
straw rather than to trust only to the free grace of 
God in Christ for our salvation, And the end of our 
meditation must not be mere speculation and know- 
ledge of the truth, but rather the vigorous pressing it 
upon our consciences, and the stirring up our hearts 
and affections to the practice of it, And in stirring 
up ourselyes to holy practice, we must warily observe 
how far the several parts of the truth of God are 
powerful and effectual for the attainment of this end, 
that we may make use of them accordingly. We must 
not imagine, as too many do, yea and some great mas- 
ters in the art of meditation, that we can bring our 
hearts effectually to the love of God and holiness, and 
can work strange alterations, and frame in our hearts 
any holy qualifications or virtue, merely by working 
in ourselves strong apprehensions of God’s eterna 
power and Godhead, his sovereign authority, omni- 
science, perfect holiness, exact justice, the equity of 
his law, and reasonableness of our obedience to it; the 
unspeakable happiness prepared for the godly, and 
misery for the wicked, to all eternity. Meditation on 
such things as these, is indeed very useful to press 
upon our consciences the strictness of our obligation 
to holy duties, and to move us to go by faith to Christ 
for life and strength to perform them, But, that we 
may receive this life and strength,-whereby we are 
enabled for immediate performance, we must meditate 
isin d on Christ’s saving benefits, as they are 
discovered in the gospel; which is the only doctrine 
which is the power of God to our salvation, and 
whereby the quickening spirit is ministered to us, and 
‘that is able to build us up, and give us an inheritance 
_ among all them which are sanctified.* You must 
take special care to act faith in your meditation ; mix 


* “8 i, 16. 2 Cor. iii, 6, Acts xx, 82. 


Lian} 
ee 


. y? » ae 


~ . Fad 


256 THE GospEL MystERY Direct. XIII. 


the word of God’s grace with it, or else it will not 
profit you.* And, if you set the loving kindness of 
God frequently before your eyes, by meditating on it 
believingly, you will be strengthened to walk in the 
truth ;f and by beholding, as in a glass, the glory of 
the Lord, you will be changed into the same image, 
from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the 
Lord.{ This kind of meditation is sweet and delight- 
ful to those that are guided to.it by the nie of faith, 
and it needs not the help of stich artificial methods as 
the vulgar cannot easily learn, You may let your 
thoughts run in at liberty, without confining them to 
any rules of method. You will find your souls much 
enlivened by it, and enriched with the grace of God ; 
which cannot be effected by any other kind of medi- 
tation, though it be never so methodical and curiously 
framed according to the rules of art. 
Fourthly, The sacrament of Baptism must needs he 
of great use to promote the life of faith, if it be made 
use of according to its nature and institution, because 
it is aseal of the righteousness of faith, as circumcision 
was formerly.§ But then we must take heed of mak- 
ing it a seal of the contrary righteousness of works, 
as the carnal Jews did, that sought to be justified by 
the law of Moses; and as many Christians do, that 
transform the new covenant into a new covenant of 
works, requiring sincere obedience to all the laws of 
Christ, as the condition of our justification ; into 
which new devised covenant they,think themselves to 
be entered by their baptism. I may say of baptism, 
thus perverted and abused, as the apostle saith of cir- 
cumeision, baptism verily profiteth if thon keep the 
law ; but if thou be a breaker of the law, thy baptism 
is made no eeiiael If thou be baptised, so long as 
thou continuest in the abuse of that holy ordinance, 
Christ shall profit you nothing; Christ has become of 


* Heb. iv, 2. ¢ Psal. xxvi, 3. } 2 Cor. iii, 18, § Rom. iv, 11 
|| Rom. ii, 25. 


Direct. XTI1. -OF SANCTIFICATION. 257 


none effect to you ; ye are fallen from grace.* Be- 
ware also of making an idol of baptism, and putting 
it in the place of Christ; as the Papists do, who hold 
~ that it conferreth grace by the very work that is per- 
formed in the administration of it ; and as many igno- 
rant people do that trust rather on their baptism than 
on Christ, like the Pharisees, who placed their confi- 
dence on circumcision and other external privileges. 
We are to know that God is not well pleased with 
many that are baptised;} and the time will come 
when he will punish the baptized with the unbaptized, 
as well as the circumcised with the uncircumcised.§ 
Beware also of advancing baptism to an equal part- 
nership with faith in your salvation; as some do who 
account all baptism null and void, besides that what 
is administered to persons grown up to years of dis- 
cretion ; and they that refuse to be rebaptized at those 
years, are to be accounted aliens from the true church, 
from Christ and his salvation, notwithstanding all 
their faith in Christ. If the baptism of infants were 
null and void, yet the want of true baptism would he 
no damning matter to those that are otherwise per- 
suaded, Circumcision was as necessary as baptism in 
its time, and yet the Israelites omitted it for the space 
of forty years in the wilderness, without fearing that 
any would fall short of salvation for want of it.|| 
Many precious saints in the primitive times of perse- 
cution, have gone to heaven through a baptism of 
suffering for the name of Christ, before they had an 
opportunity to be baptized with water. And in those 
ancient times, when the custom of deferring baptism 
too much prevailed, we are not to think that none are 
ina state of salvation by faith in Christ, that deferred 
that ordinance or neglected it. Take notice farther, 
that it is not sufficient to avoid the pernicious errors 
_ of those that pervert baptism contrary to its institu- 


* Gal, y, 2,4. + Phil. iii, 4, 5. $1 Cor. x, 2, 5. § Jer. ix, 28. 
| || Josh. v, 6,7. 
x 2 


p Riis yok 2) mae 


. vv 


258 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XIII, 


tion ; but you must be also diligent in improving it 
to_the ends for which it was instituted. And here let 
me desire you to put the question seriously to your 
souls, What good use do you make of your baptism’ 
How often, or seldom do you think upon it? ‘The 
vulgar sort of Christians, yea, it may be feared, many 
sincere converts, do so little think upon their own 
baptism, and study to make a due improvement of 
it, that it is of no more profit to their souls than if 
they never had been baptized; yea, their sin is the 
more aggravated by rendering such an ordinance of 
none effect to their souls, through their own gross ne- 
glect. Though baptism be administered to us but 
once in our lives, yet we ought frequently to reflect 
upon it, and upon all occasions to put the question to 
ourselves, Unto what were we baptized?* Whatdoes — 
this ordinance seal? What did it engage us to? And 
accordingly we must stir up and strengthen ourselves 
by our baptism, to lay hold on the grace which it seals 
to us, and to fulfil its engagements. Weshould often 
remember that we are made Christ’s disciples by bap- 
tism, and engaged to hear him rather than Moses, and 
to believe on him for our salvation; as John baptized 
with the baptism of repentance, saying tothe people, — 
that they should believe on him that elie come — 
after him, that is on Christ Jesus. We should re- 
member that our baptism sealed our putting on of 
Christ, and our being the children of God by faith in 
Christ, and our being no longer under the former — 
schoolmaster, the law ;f and that it sealed to us the 
putting off the body of sin, and our burial and resur- __ 
rection with Christ by faith, and the forgiving of our 
trespasses ;{ our being made members of one body, ~ 
Christ, and to drink into one Spirit. We may find 
by such things as these, which are more fully disco- 
vered in the gospel, that it is the proper nature and 


* Acts xix, 3, t Gal. iii, 25, 26, 27. t Col. ii, 12, 13. 
$1 Cor. xii. 12, 13. ‘ 


Direct, XII, OF SANCTIFICATION. 259 


tendency of baptism, to guide us to faith in Christ 
alone for remission of sins, holiness, and all salvation, 
by union and fellowship with him; and thata diligent 
improvement of this ordinance, must needs be of great 
advantage to the life of faith. 

Fifthly, The sacrament of the Lord’s Supper is as a 
spiritual feast to nourish our faith, and to strengthen 
us to live in all holiness, by Christ living and work- 
ing in us, if it be used according to the pattern which 
Christ we us in its first institution, recorded by three 
Evangelists ;* and was extraordinarily revealed from 
heayen by Christ himself to the apostle Paul;t that 
we might be the more obliged and stirred up to the 
exact observation of it. Its end is, nof*only that we 
may remember Christ’s death in the history, but in 
the mystery of it: as, that his body was broken for 
us, that his blood is the blood of the New Testament 
or covenant shed for us, and for many, for the remis- 
sion of sins; that so we may receive and enjoy all the 
penne of the new covenant which are recorded. 

ts end is, to mind us that Christ’s body and bloo 
are bread and drink, even all-sufficient food to nou- 
rish our souls to everlasting life; and that we ought 
to take, and eat and drink him by faith: and to as- 
sure us that, when we truly believe on him, he is 
as really and closely united to us by his spirit, as the 
food which we eat and drink is united to our bodies. 
Christ himself§ doth more fully explain this mystery 
Furthermore, this sacrament doth not only put us in 
mind of the spiritual blessings wherewith we are 
blessed in Christ, and our enjoyments of them_by 
faith, but also isa mean and instrument whereby God 
doth really exhibit and give forth Christ and his sal- 
vation to true believers, and whereby he doth stir up 
and strengthen believers to receive and feed upon 
Christ, by present actings of faith, while they par- 


* Matt. xxvi, 26—28. Mark xiv, 22—24, Luke xxii, 19, 20. 
f 1 Cor. xi, 23, if 25. t Heb. viii, 10, 11, 12. § John vi. 


260 THE GOSPEL MystERY Direct, XIII. 


take of the outward elements. When Christ saith, 
“Kat, drink ; this ismy body, this is my blood,” no 
less can be meant than that Christ doth as truly give 
his body and blood to true believers in that ordinance, 
as the bread and cup ; and they do as truly receive it 
by faith. As if a prince invest a subject in some hon- 
ourable office, by delivering to him a staff, sword, or 
signet, and say to him, Take this staff, sword, or sig- 
net; this is such an office or preferment; or, if a father 
should deliver a deed for conveyance of land to his 
son and say, Take it as thy own, this is such a farm 
or manor; how can such expressions import any thing 
less, in common sense and reason, than a present, gift, 
and conveyance of the offices, preferments, and lands, 
by and with those outward signs? Therefore the 
= alge Paul asserteth, that the bread in the Lord’s 
stpper, is the communion of the body of Christ, and 
the cup is the communion of his blood ;* which shew- 
eth that Christ’s body and blood are really communi- 
cated to us, and we do really partake of them as well 
as of the bread and cup. The chief excellency and 
advantage of this ordinance is, that it is not only a 
figure and resemblance of our living upon a crucified 
Saviour, but also a precious instrument whereby 
Christ, the bread and drink of life, is really conveyed 
to us, and received by us, through faith. This makes 
it to be a love-token, worthy of that ardent affection 
towards us, which filled Christ’s heart at the time 
when he instituted it, when he was on the point of 
finishing his greatest work of love, by laying down 
his life for us.f And this is diligently to be observed 
that we may make a right improvement of this ordi- 
nance, and receive the saving benefits of it. One rea- 
son why many do little esteem, and seldom or never 
partake of this ordinance, and do find little benefit by 
it, is because they falsely imagine that God in it only 
holds forth naked signs and resemblances of Christ 


* Cor, x, 6, +1 Cor. xi, 23, 


Direct. XIII. OF SANCTIFICATION, 261 


and his salvation, which they account to be held forth 
so plainly in Scripture, that they need not the hel 

of such a sign: whereas, if they understood that Go 

doth really give Christ himself to their faith, by and 
with those signs and resemblances, they would prize 
it as the most delicious feast, and be desirous to par- 
take of it on all  eeceomall Another reason why 
many daa seldom or never of this ordinance, and 
know little of the benefit of it, is because they think 
themselves brought by it into great danger of eating 
and drinking their own damnation, according to those 
oe words of the apostle, “ For he that eateth 
and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh dam- 
nation to himself, not discerning the Lord’s body.” + 
Therefore, they account it the safest way wholly to 
abstain from such a dangerous ordinance, or at least, 
that once a-year is enough to run so great a hazard. 
And if they be brought to it sometimes by constraint 
of conscience, their slavish fears bereave them of all 
comfortable fruit of it. So that, instead of striving to 
receive Christ and his salvation therein, they account 
themselves to have succeeded well, if they come off 
without the sentence of damnation; as the Jewish 
Rabbies write, that the High Priest’s life was so emi- 
nently hazarded by his entering once a year into the 
holy of holies, that he staid there as little time as he 
ed lest the people should think him to be struck dead 
by the hand of God; and when he came forth alive, 
he usually made a feast of thanksgiving for joy of so 
great a deliverance. But there is no reason why we 
should he so terrified by these words of the apostle ; 
for they were darted against such a gross profanation 
of the Lord’s supper among the Corinthians, as we 
may easily avoid, by observing the institution of it, 
which the apostle proposeth to them as a sufficient 
remedy against the gross abuse, in not discerning or 


differencing the Lord’s body from other bodily food, 


* Acts ji, (i and xx, 7. +1 Cor. xi, 29. 


en 


262 THE GOSPEL MysreRY Direct. XIII. 


and partaking of it as their own supper, with such 
disorder, that one was hungry, and another drunken. 
Besides, that terrifying word damnation, may be ren- 
dered more mildly judgment, as it isin the margin; 
yea the apostle himself doth interpret it of a merciful 
temporal judgment, whereby we are chastened of the 
Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. 
We are indeed prone to sin in receiving this ordinance 
unworthily ; and so we are also to pollute, more or 
less, all other holy things that we meddle with. So 
that the consideration of our danger might fill us with 
slavish fear in the use of all other means of grace, as 
well as of this, were it not that we have a great High 
Priest, to bear this iniquity of our holy things;* un- 
der the cover of whose righteousness we are to draw 
near unto God, without slavish fear, in the full assu- 
rance of faith, in this as well as in other holy ordi- 
nances ; and we are to rejoice in the Lord in this 
spiritual feast, as the Jews were bound to do in their 
holy feast.t ‘There are other abuses of this ordinance 
like to those of baptism forementioned, whereby it is 
rendered opposite, rather than subservient to the life 
of faith. Sime put it in the place of Christ, by trust- 
ing on it as a work of righteousness for the procuring | 
of God’s favour, or an ordinance sufficient to confer 
grace to the soul by the very work wrought. Others 
make it so necessary, that they account faith is not - 
sufficient without it, and therefore they will partake 
of it, if they can possibly, though it be in a disorderly 
manner, upon their sick beds, when they are in fear — 
of death as their viaticum. The Papists do horridly ~ 
idolize it by their figment of transubstantiation, and — 
their adoration of their breaden God, and their sacrifice 
of the mass for the sins of the quick and the dead. — 
We ought warily to conceive that the true body and — 
blood of Christ are given tous with the bread and — 
wine, in a spiritual mysterious manner, by the un-~ 


* Exod, xxvili, 38. + Deut, xvi, 14, 15, 


Direct, XIII. OF SANCTIFICATION. 263 


searchable operation of the Holy Spivit, uniting Christ 
and us Soocthes by faith, without any transubstanti- 
ation in the outward elements. 

Siwthly, Prayer is to be made use of as a means of 
living by faith in Christ, according to the new man. 
And it is the making our requests with supplication 
and thanksgiving. ‘That it is to be used so, as an em- 
inent means, appears because God requireth it; it is. 
our priestly work, and the property of saints ; and 
God is a God of hearing prayer.* God will be prayed 
to by his people, for the benefits that he is minded 
to bestow upon them, when once he had enabled them 
to pray ; though at first he is found of them that seek 
him not ; that he may prepare them for thanksgiving, 
and make benefits double benefits to them. Though 
his will be not changed by this means, yet it is accom- 
plished ordinarily, and his purpose is to accomplish it 
this way. And therefore, trusting assuredly should 
not make us neglect, but rather perform this duty.t 
Christ the mediator of the new covenant, by which 
justification and sanctification are promised, ‘is also 
the mediator for acceptance of our prayers.{ The 
Spirit that sanctifieth us, begetteth us in Christ, and 
sheweth the things of Christ to usin a Spirit of prayer.§ 
He is a fire inflaming the soul and making it to mount 
- upward in prayer to God. Prayerless people are 

dead to God. If they are children of Zion, yet they 
are but still-born, dead children that cry not; not 
written among the living in Jerusalem; heathens in 
nature, though Christians in name.|} It is a duty so 
great, that it is put for all the service of God, as a 
fundamental duty, which if it be done, the rest will 
be done well, and not without it ; and other ordinances 
of worship -are helps to it. It is the great means 
_ whereby faith doth exert itself to perform its whole 

work, and poureth itself forth in all holy desires and 


* Psal. Ix, 2. ¢ 2 Sam. vii, 27. t Heb. iv, 15, 16, 
$ Zech, xii, 10. Gal. iv, 6. || Jer. x, 25. 


x 


264 THE GOSPEL ysrery Direct. XIII. 


affections, and so yields a sweet savour, as Mary’s box 
of precious spikenard ; and so the same promises are 
made to faith and prayer.* It is our continual incense 
and sacrifice whereby we offer ourselves, our hearts, 
affections, andslives to God.f We act all grace in it, 
and must act in this way, or else we are not likely to 
act in any other way. And as we act grace, so we 
obtain grace by it, and all holiness. Our riches come 
in by it; Israel prevails while Moses holds up his 
hands. By prayer Hannah is strengthened against 
her sorrows—peace is continued—the disordered soul 
is set in order by it, as Hannah.{ Incense was still 
burnt while the lamps were dressed. It is added to 
the spiritual armour, not as a particular piece of it, 
but as a means of putting on all, and making use of 
all aright, that we may stand in the evilday. Itisa 
means of- transfiguring us into the likeness of Christ 
in holiness, and making our spiritual faces to shine, as 
Christ was transfigured bodily, whilst he prayed; and 
Moses’s face shone whilst he talked with God.§ Hence 
the frequent use of this duty is commended to us.|| 
Praying always, zavri x«ipa on all seasons and oppor- 
tunities; and, by the example of the saints, in public 
with the congregation. Solemn acts of prayer should 
be continued daily; yea, several times in a day, as 
morning and evening sacrifice ; or thrice, besides spe- 
cial occasions, and brief ejaculations, that hinder not 
other business. Prayers should be solemn in our 
closets, in families. And as sacrifices were multiplied 
on the sabbath-days, and days of atonement, and at 
other appointed seasons, besides the continual burnt- 
offering : so ought prayer also. In a word, a Chris- 
tian ought to give up himself eminently to this duty, 
without limits. But the great work is to practise this 
duty rightly for holiness, only by faith in Christ. 
Here we had need to say, Lord teach us to pray ;[ and 


* Rom. x, 11, 12,13. + Psal. cxli, 2. $1Sam.i,18. Psal. xxxii, 1, 5. 
§ Exod. xxxiv, 29. || Eph. vi, 18. 4] Psal. cxxix,8. J Luke xi, 1. 


Direct. XTII, OF SANCTIFICATION, 265 


that not only as to the matter, but as to the manner; 
both which are taught by Christ, in some measure, in 
that brief pattern of prayer which he taught his dis- 
ciples. But for the understanding of it we must con- 
sult the whole word.* And we have need of the 
Spirit of Christ, to guide us in the duty ; and there- 
fore we are taught to pray by the Spirit, that is, the 
Holy Ghost.t The Spirit of God only guideth and 
directeth our souls to pray aright. And that you 
may do so, take these rules.— 

Ist, You must pray with your hearts and spirit, 
where the Spirit of Christ, and of prayer principally 
resides ; with understanding; for we are renewed in 
knowledge; so that praying in ignorance cannot 
sanctify. And it must be with sincere hearty desire 
of the good things we ask in prayer; for God seeth 
the heart.{ Prayer is chiefly a heart-work. God 
heareth the heart without the mouth, but never 
heareth the mouth acceptably without the heart.§ 
Your prayer is odious hypocrisy, mocking of God, 
and taking his name in vain, when you utter peti- 
tions for the coming of his kingdom, and doing of his 
will, and yet hate godliness in your heart. This is 
lying to doa, and flattering with your lips, but no 
true prayer: and so God takes it.|| And you must 
have a sense of your wants and necessities, and that 
God only can supply them. And fervency in those 
desires is required. And you must pray with atten- 
tion, minding yourselves what you pray, or else you 
cannot expect that God should mind it. Watch 
unto it. Set yourselves to this duty intently. God 
seeth where your heart is wandering, when you pray 
without attention.[ When you say never so many 
prayers without understanding, attention, affection, 
it is not praying at all, but sinning and playing the 


* 92 Tim. iii, 16, 17. + Jude ver. 20. Eph, ii, 18. t Psa. Ixii, 8. 


$1 Sam. i, 13. || Psa. Ixxviii, 36. ‘J James v, 16. 
] Ezek. xxxiii, 3). 
} Z 


on} # 


Ce oe aah Ae ee 


266 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, XITT. 


hypocrite ; as Papists mumble over their Latin 
ptayers upon the beads by tale, prating like parrots 
what they cannot understand. And thus ignorant 
people say over their forms of English prayers, and 
account they have well discharged their duty, though 
their heart pray not at.all, and they were mindin 
other things. This is a mere lip labour, and bodily 
exercise; offering a dead carcase to God; plain de- 
ceit ;* a form of godliness, with denying the power; 
whereby Popery hath cheated the world of the power 
of this, and all other holy ordinances. They say, 
God minds and knows what they speak, and approves 
it. I answer, he sees them so as to judge. them for 
hypocrites, and profane persons, for not knowing, 
minding, and approving what they utter themselves : 
he hath no pleasure in fools. They would not deal 
so with an earthly prince. 

2ndly, You must pray in the name of Christ: for the 
Spirit glorifies Christ ; and leadeth us to God through 
Christ.t As I have shewed, that walking in the 
Spirit, and wallcing in Christ, is all one; so is praying 
in the Spirit, and by and through Christ. And as we 
are to walk in the name of the Lord, and to do all 
things in his name, so to pray in his name as is com- 
manded.{ It is not enough to conclude our prayers, 
through Jesus Christ our Lord; but we must come 
for blessings in the garments of our elder brother, 
and must depend upon his worthiness and strength 
for all. So also we must praise God for all things in 
his name, as things received for his sake, and by him.§ 
We must lay hold on his strength only, and plead 
nothing, and own nothing, for our acceptance, but 
him. We must not plead our own works arrogantly, 


like the proud Pharisee, except only as fruits of — 


grace, and rewards of grace. Praying in the Spirit is 
upon gospel, not legal principles; with great humili- 
ation, and sense of unworthiness; with a broken 


* Mal. i, 13,14. Eph. ii, 18. + John iy, 13, 14, § Eph. v, 20. 


ay 


ee 
a 
: 


ft 


S 


Les 
“ helt 2 ae Ms “ i 
RS OT Ge a ae, on a 


Direct, XI, OF SANCTIFICATION. 267 


spirit; with despair of acceptance, otherwise than 
upon Christ’s account.* if your enlargements, 
strugglings, meltings, have been never so great, yet 
without this all is abominable. 

8dly, Hence you must not think to be accepted for 
the goodness of your prayers, and trust on them as 
works of righteousness; which is making idols of 
your prayers, and putting them in the place of 
Christ; quite contrary to praying in the name of 
Christ. Thus Papists hope to be saved by saying 
their tale of prayers upon their bead-rows ; and they 
haye indulgences granted upon their saying so many 
Shales and of such a sort. Yea, some ignorant 

rotestants trust on their prayers as duties of right- 
eousness; and they think one prayer to be more ac- 
ceptable than another, by reason of the holiness of the 
form, if it were made by holy men; especially the 
Lord’s prayer, which they use to help them in any 
exigence or danger; how little soever they can apply 
it to their own case, they make an idol of it. And 
some use it, and other places of scripture, as a spell 
or charm, to drive away the devil. And others think 
their prayers more acceptable in one place than in 
another, by reason of the holiness of the place.t 
Others trust on their much speaking ;} whieh they 
call the enlargement of their hearts. ‘They think to 
put off God, and stop the mouth of conscience, with 
a few prayers, and so to live as they list. 

4thly, Pray to,God as your Father, through Christ as 
your Saviour, in faith of remission of sins, and your 
acceptance with God, and the obtaining all other 
things which you desire of him, as far as is necessary 
for your salvation.§ This is praying in Christ; and 


Nea Holy Ghost, the Spirit of adoption; Without 
“thi 


, prayer is lifeless and \heartless, and but a dead 
carcase. By this you may judge whether you have 


* Dan. ix, 18. + John iv, 21, 24. 1 Tim. ii, 8. $ Matt. vi, 7. 
 § James i, 5, 6,7. andy. 15, 1 Johny, 14,15, Mark, xi, 24, 


‘ 


268 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XIII. 


prayed rightly, more than by your melting affection, 
or largeness in expression. ‘Though you be not as- 
sured that you shall have every thing that you ask, 
yet every thing that is good. This faith you must 
endeavour to act; and therefore, if any sin lie on 
your conscience, you must strive first to get the par- 
don of it;* and purification of it by faith, that you 
may lift up holy hands, without wrath and doubt- 
ing.t The sin of wrath there is especially mentioned, 
because that is contrary to love, and forgiving others. 
Here lies the strength, life, and powerfulness of 
prayer. Set faith on work, and you will, be power- 
ful, and prevail. 

5thly, You must strive, in prayer, to stir up and act 
every other sanctifying grace, through faith movin 
you thereto. Thus your spikenards will yield their 
smell; as, godly sorrow; peace; joy; hope; desire 
and love to God; and love to all his commands; and 
to his people out of love to him.{t You must seek 
the Spirit himself in the first place; and all spiritual 
things, Praying only for carnal things, shews a car- 
nal heart, and leaves it carnal. Pray for faith; and 
for such things as may serve most for the glorifying 
God.§ And for outward things, you must act faith 
in submission to his will. And this prayer sets you 
in a holy frame. Hallowing God’s name must he 
‘your aim; not your lusts. 

Gthly, Strive to bring your soul into order by this 
duty, however disordered by guilt, anguish, inordinate 
cares, or fears. A watch must be often wound up. 
You must wrestle in prayer against your unbelief, 
doubtings, fears, cares, reluctancy of the flesh to that 
which is good; against all evil lusts and desires, cold- 
ness of affection, impatience, trouble of spirit; every 
thing that is contrary to a holy life, and the graces 
and holy desires to be acted for yourselves or others, 


* Psa. xxxii, 5, and li, 14, 15. +1 Tim. ii, 8. $ Psa. exxii, 8. 
§ 2 Chron. i, 11, 12. 


Direct. XIU. OF SANCTIFICATION. 269 


Stir up yourselves to the duty. Though the flesh 
be cross and reluctant, we must not yield, but resist 
by the Spirit. And thus we shall find the Spirit 
helping our infirmities.* Though God seem to defer 
long, we must not faint or be discouraged. The 
greater our agonies be, the more earnestly we are to 
pray.t This is xpocxapre civ ri wporevxy, to continue 
Instant in prayer.{ ‘Thus you will find prayer a 
great heart-work, and not such a thing as may be 
done while he think on other things; and that it 
requireth all the strength of faith and affection that 
you can possibly stir up. Thus you may get a holy 
frame. 

Tthly, You may make a good use of the whole matter, 
and all the manner of prayer, as ordinary and extra- 
ordinary exigencies may require, to stir up grace in 
‘you, by wrestling, and to bring your heart into a holy 
frame. As, in confession, you must condemn your- 
self according to the ks but not as you are in 
Christ. You must not deny that grace that you 
have, as if you were only wicked hitherto, and now 
to begin again; which hinders praise for grace re- 
ceived in those that are already converted. In sup- 

lication, you must endeavour to work up your 
neart to a godly sorrow; and a holy sense of your 
own sin and misery; and lay before you the aggrava- 
tions thereof. Complaint and lamentation are one 
great part of prayer, as the Lamentations of Jeremiah. 
And you must add pleadings to your petitions, with 
such arguments as may serve to strengthen faith, and 
to stir up and kindle affection. Which pleadings are 
taken from attributes; promises; the equity of our 
cause; the advantage and benefit of the thing, to the 
glory of God, and our comfort. Naked petitions are 
not sufficient, when the soul findeth special cause of 
struggling and wrestling against corruptions and dan- 


* Rom. viii, 26, 27. ¥ Psa. xxii, 1,2. Wuke xxii, 42. 
ft Rom. xii, 12, - Eph. vi, 18, 
Z2 


270 THE GosPEL MystERY Direct. XJIJ. 


gers, and for mercies. Christ’s large prayer* is made 
up of pleading, and very few petitions, And we must 
make use also of praise and thanksgiving, to stir up 
peace, joy, love, &c.t Especially be much in prais- 
ing God for mercies of the new state in Christ ; and 
then you will the better give thanks for all benefits 
on his account ;{ and plead those benefits, to stir u 
to faith and duty. That brief ejaculation, Lord, 
have mercy on me, is very good to be used, but it will 
not answer the end and use of the whole duty of 
prayer, as some lazy carnal ea: would have it, and 
so harden themselves in the neglect of the duty: 
though the large improvement and use of all the 
matter of prayer at all times is not required, but only 
as ordinary and extraordinary occasions may require. 
8thly, You must not confine and limit your prayers 
by any prescribed form ; seeing it isimpossible that any 
such forms should be contrived, as should answer 
and fit all the various conditions and necessites of the 
soul at all times. I do not condemn all forms, as 
that made by Christ, the Lord’s prayer; though it 
were easy to shew, that Christ never intended it for 
a form of prayer, so as to bind any to the precise 
form of words; and it is plain the Spirit of God hath 
expressed it in different words.§ But better to pray 
by that form, or other forms, than not at all. It is 
uncharitable to take away crutches, or wooden legs, 
from lame people ; yet none will look upon them but 
as dead ne ie I say, it is utterly unlawful to bind 
ourselves to any form, because none can answer the 
duty fitly, and suitably to particular occasions.|| 
You must make the whole Scripture your Common 
Prayer book, as the primitive church did; being the 
language of the Spirit, reaching all occasions and con- 
ditions, and fittest to speak to Godin. And if you 


* John xvii. f Gen. xxxiii, 10. Psa. xviii, 1, 2, 3. and xxxiii, 1, 
t Eph. v, 20. 1 Thess. v, 18, § Matt. vi. Luke xi. 
|| Eph. vi, 18. Phil. iv, 6. 


Direct. XITL, OV SANCTIFICATION. 271 


use a form, you must follow it by the Spirit, farther 
than the form goes, according as he shall guide you 
by the word; or else you quench the Spirit.* If you 
know the principles of prayer, and have a lively sense 
of your necessities, and hearty desires of God’s grace 
and mercies, you will be able to pray without forms, 
and your affections will bring forth words out of the 
fulness of your heart. And you need not be over 
solicitous and timorous about words; for, doubtless, 


— the Spirit, who is the help. to us in speaking to men, 


will also much more help us to speak to God, if we 
desire it.f And God regards not eloquent words, nor 
artificial composure; neither need we regard it in 
private prayer.{ If you limit yourselves to forms, 
you will thereby grow formal, and limit the Spirit. 
Seventhly, Another means appointed of God, is 
singing of psalms, i. e. songs of any sacred subject 
composed to a tune, hymns or songs of praise, and 
spiritual songs of any sublime spiritual matter, as 
sal. xv, and the Song of Solomon. God hath com- 
manded it in the New Testament; though now in 
these days many question whether it be an ordinance 
orno. And there were many commands for it under 
the Old Testament. Moses and the children of Israel 
sang before David’s time. David composed psalms 
by the Spirit to be sung publicly ; yea, privately too. 
Other songs also were made upon several occasions, 
and used, whether they were parts of the Scripture 
or no; as Solomon made a thousand and five.§ And 
they made songs upon occasion. Which teacheth, 
that it is lawful for us to do so, if they be according 
to the word. The matter of Scripture may be sung. 
Christ and his disciples sang a hymn,|| supposed to 
be one of Dayid’s psalms; and they were written for 
our instruction, as well as) other parts of Scripture ; 
and so to be used now in singing. They speak of the 


“#1 Thess, v, 19. t.1 Cor, 1,5, f Isa. xxxvili, M4. 
§ 1 Kings iv, 32. || Matt. xxvi, 30. 


. 


272 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XIII. 


things of the New ‘Testament, either figuratively or 
clearly ; and we may understand them better now, 
than the Jews could under the Old Testament.* 
Christians heretofore practised this duty as well as 
Jews. Hence their atelucani hymni (the hymns they 
sung before daylight) were noted by Pliny, a heathen. 
These songs or hymns may be used at all times, 
especially for holy mirth or rejoicing.f But this 
text is not to be taken exclusively in singing, any 
more than in prayer. 

But the right manner of this duty is chiefly to be 
noted. And here, (1.) Trust not upon the melody 
of the voice, as if that pleased God, who delighteth 
only in the melody of the heart.§ Neither let the 
recreating your senses be your end, which is but a 
carnal work; Non musica chordula, sed cor; non 
clamans, sed amans psallit in aure Dei: Not a musical 
string, but the heart; not crying but loving sounds in 
the ear of the Lord. This spiritual music was typi- 
fied by musical instruments of old. (2.) You must 
use it for the same end as meditation and prayer, 
according to the nature of what is sung: that is to 
quicken faith; and joy and delight in the Lord, glo- 
rying in him.|| You are never right until you can 
be heartily merry in the Lord, to act joy and mirth 
holily; and also to get more knowledge and instruc- 
tion in heavenly mysteries, and in your duty teaching 
and admonishing.q| Many psalms are maschils, (as 
their title is,) that is psalms of instruction. Thus we 
are to sing such psalms as speak in the first person, 
though we cannot apply them to ourselves concerning 
ourselves; and in this we no not lie. David speaks of 
Christ as himself, as a pattern of affliction and virtue, 
to instruct others; and we sing such psalms, not as 
our words, but words for our instruction. And therein 
we do not lie, any more than the Levites, the sons of 


* 2 Cor. iii, 16. + James v, 13. t Psa. xxxviii, 18,2. - 
§ Col. iii, 16. || Psa, civ, 33, 34, J Col, iii, 16, 


Direct. XIII. OF SANCTIFICATION. 273 


Korah, or Jeduthun, or other musicians bound to 
sing them. Though it be good to personate all the 
good that we can; yet we have so much liberty in 
the use of psalms, that though we cannot apply all to 
ourselves, as speaking and thinking the same, yet we 
shall answer the end, if we sing for our instruction.* 
And psalms have a peculiar fitness for teaching and 
instruction ; because the pleasantness of metre said or 
sung, is very helpful to the memory. And there isa 
variety of curious artifice in the placing of words in 
the psalms upon this account; and there are some 
alphabetical psalms.t And by the nielody of the 
sound, the instructions come in with delight, as a 
physical dose sugared ; and sorrow is naturally allayed, 
to fit the mind for spiritual joy; and distempered 
passions appeased. So Orpheus, Amphion, and others 
were famous for civilizing rude and barbarous people 
by music. 
| Highthly, Fasting is also an ordinance of God, to be 
used for the same purpose and end, and is commended 
to us under the New Testament.{ And we have 
examples of it.6 Under the Old Testament, there 
were frequent commands for it, and examples, chiefly 
upon oceasion of extraordinary afflictions: besides the 
anniversary great day of atonement, when every one 
was to fast on pain of cutting off. There is a prophecy 
of the same for the times of the New Testament.|| 
It was used most on extraordinary occasions; and it 
is a help to holiness by faith, because it is a meet help 
for extraordinary prayer and humiliation. But the 
great matter is to use it rightly, as followeth. 
1s¢t, Trust not on it as meriting or satisfying, as 
Papists and Pharisees do,[ putting it in the place of 
Christ; or as a means of itself conferring grace, and 
mortifying lusts, as many do, who may sooner kill 


\ 


; 
* Psa. vi, Xxvi, xlvi. + Psa, XV; XXxXiV, Xxxvii. t+ Matt. ix, 15. 


§ Acts xiii, 2, 3. || Zech. xii 11, 4 Joeli, 14, and ii, 12. 
{ Luke xviii, 11. 


TNA) le 2S, a - Le, j 


——— 


‘ 


274 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XII. 


their bodies than their lusts; or as any purifying rite ; 
yea, or in or for itself acceptable to God. Imagine 
not, that prayer is not acceptable without it; for this 
is against faith. TF asts as well as feasts, are not sub- 
stantial parts of worship, because not spiritual, but 
bodily; though under the Old Testament, they were 
parts as instituted rights, figurative and teaching. 
But that use is now ceased: as that on the day of atone- 
ment, and so many figurative rites adjoined to fasting, 
as sack-cloth, ashes, ending garments, pouring out 
water, lying on the earth. The kingdom of God 
consists not in these things. The soul is hardened 
by trusting in them. 

2ndly, Use it as a help to extraordinary prayer and 
humiliation; that the mind may not be unsuited for 
it, by eating, drinking, or bodily pleasures.* It is 
good only as a help to the soul, removing impedi- 
ments. The best fast is, when the mind is taken off 
from delights, as in John the Baptist’s case, when 
heaven and godly sorrow take off the soul.f 

3dly, Use it in such a measure as may be proper for 
its end; without which it is worth nothing. If ab- 
stinence divert your mind, by reason of a gnawin 
appetite, then you had better eat sparingly, as Daniel, 
in his great fast. Some have not enough of spiritual 
mindedness, to give up themselves to fasting and prayer 
without great distraction; and such had better eat, 
than go beyond their strength in a thing not abso- 
lutely necessary, which produceth only a slavish act, 
asin the case of virginity.§ Christ would not have 
his weak disciples necessitated to the duty: In the 
mean time, such should strive to be sensible of the 
weakness and carnality that hinders their use of this 
excellent help. 

Ninthly, pat may expect here something to be 
spoken of vows. But I shall only say this of them. ~ 

* Joel ii, 13. + Zech. xii, 10,14. | $Chap.x,23, 

§1 Cor, vii, 7, 8, 9, 34, 35, 36. || Matt. ix, 14; 15. 4 


1 ae ie 


Direct. XIIT, OF SANCTIFICATION. 275 


Think not to bring yourselves to good by vows and 
romises, as if the strengtli of your own law could do 
it, when the strength of God’s law doth not. We 
bring children to make promises of amendment, but 
we know how well they keep them. The devil will 
urge you to vow, and then to break, that he may 
perplex your conscience the more. 
enthly, Another great mean is, fellowship and 
communion with the saints.* 

First, this mean must be used diligently. Whoso- 
ever God sayeth, should be added to some visible 
church, and come into communion of other saints; 
and if they have not an opportunity for it, their 
heart should be bent towards it. Sometimes the 
church is in the wilderness, and hindered from visible 
communion and ordinances; but they that believe in 
Christ, are always willing and desirous so to add and 
join themselves.t And they continued stedfastly in 
fellowship.{ And God binds his people to leave the 
fellowship and society of the wicked as much as may 
be. vd so far as we are necessitated to accompany 
with them, we ought to shew charity to their souls 
and bodies. This communion with saints is to be 
exercised in private converse, and in public assem- 
blies.§ And doubtless it ought to be used for the 
attainment of holiness: as may be proved. 

lstly, In general, hecause God communicates all 
salvation to people ordinarily by, or in a church; 
either by taking them into fellowship, or holding 
forth the light of truth by his churches to the world. 
A church is the temple of God, where God dwells. || 
He hath placed his name and salvation there, as in 
Jerusalem of old. He hath given to his churches 
those officers and ordinances whereby he converts 
others. His springs are there. He makes the several 
members of a church instruments for the conveyance 


* Acts ji, 42. + Acts ji, 4), 44, 47. t1 John ii, 19. 
§ Heb. x, 25. J] 1 ‘Lim. iii, 15. 


) 


276 THE GOSPEL MysTERY. Direct. XII, 


of his grace and fulness from one to another, as the 
members of the natural body convey to each other the 
fulness of the head.* All the new-born are brought 
forth and nourished by the church, and therefore all 
that would be saved, should join to a church: they 
shall prosper that love the chuxgh, so as to stand in 
its gates, and unite as members, brethren and com- 
panions.t And wrath is denounced against those 
that are not members of it, at least, of the mystical 
body: they cannot have God for their Father, that 
have not that for their mother. This maketh those 
that desire fellowship with God, to take hold of the 
skirts of his people.{ 

2ndly, In particular, fellowship with the saints 
conduceth to holiness, many ways. 

First, By manifold helps to holiness, which are 
received thereby : as, 

1. Thé word and sacraments; and all the minis- 
terial office and labour in watching over souls. None 
of these helps can be enjoyed without fellowship of 
saints, each with other. And if believers had been to 
have stood single by themselves, and not maintained 
fellowship with each other, for mutual assistance 
and common good, none of these things could have 
continued ; neither could any believer have been ex- 
tant at this day, in-an ordinary way, but even the 
very name of believers had been abolished. 

2. Mutual prayer, which is the more forcible when 
all pray together.$ 

8. Mutual admonition, instruction, consolation, to 
help each other when they are ready to fall, and to 
promote the good work in each other.|| ‘“ He that 
walketh with wise men shall be wise.4{ Woe to 
him that is alone when he falleth.”’** In chureh 
fellowship there are many helpers, many to watch. 


* Eph, iv, 16. fh Panlen exis ne4nee t Zech, viii, 23. 
§ Matt. xviii, 19, 20, || 1 Thess. v, 14. {| Prov. xiii, 20. 
** See Eccl. iv, 9—12. 


Direct. XT. OF SANCTIFICATION. 277 


Soldiers have their security in company; and the 
church is compared to an army with banners.* So, 
for quickening affections, iron sharpeneth iron. Like- 
wise the council of a friend, like ointment and _per- 
fume, rejoiceth the heart. Yea the wounds and re- 
proofs of the righteous are as precious balm.t 

4, External supports, which mitigate afflictions, 
and are to be communicated mutually.{ The afflic- 
tion is increased, when none careth for our souls.§ 

5. Excommuunication, when offences are exceed- 
ing heinous, or men obstinate insin. This ordinance 

is appointed for the destruction of the flesh, that 
the spirit may be saved.|| Better and more hopeful 
it is, to be cast out by the church for a person’s 
amendment, than to be wholly without the church 
at all times ; and better to be a lost sheep, than a goat 
or swine. For excommunication cuts off actual com- 
munion only, until repentance be evident; and not 
absolutely abolisheth the title and relation of a bro- 
ther and church-member, though it judgeth one to be 
an unnatural brother, anda pernicious rotten mem- 
ber at present, not fit for acts of communion. Be- 
sides, admonition is still to be afforded; and any 
means are to be used, that may serve to cure and re- 
store him, The church reacheth forth a hand to help 
such a person, though it do not join hands in fellow- 
ship with him ; or it communicateth to him, not with 
him, Yet, if he have not so much grace as to repent, 
it were better he had never known the way of right- 
eousness. 4 

6. The lively examples of saints are before our eyes. 

in church-fellowship, to teach and encourage. 

7. By those holy duties that are required and do 
appertain to this fellowship and communion, All 
acts that belong to this fellowship are holy ; as, hear- 
ing, receiving the sacraments, prayer, mutual admo- 


* Song vi, 4, 10. t Psalm exii, 5. t Eph. iv, 28. 
§ Psalm cxlii, 4 (| 1 Cor. v, 5. qf 2 Pet. ii, 21. 


2A 


/ } 


\ 


ta 


a ee (a 


278 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XTIT. 


nitions, &c. I shall consider some such holy acts, 
whereby we are rather doers than receivers, and which 
we perform towards others: as, a 

1. Godly Discourse, teaching, admonishing, com- 
forting others in Christ; which we cannot so perform 
towards others, as towards those we have strict fel- 
lowship with in Christ. Others, like swine, trample 
these jewels under foot; and saints therefore are for- 
ced to refrain from godly discourse in their company. 
But holy discourse is most acceptable to the saints, 
and to be practised with them ; and is greatly to the 
advantage of holiness. 

2. In helping, succouring, and conversing with 
Christ in his members. We do good to Christ in his 
members in church-fellowship ; and we ourselves, as 
members of Christ, act as well from Christ as towards 
Christ; whereas, if we do good to others without, we 
do good only for Christ’s sake, but not to Christ. We 
lave advantage in general, to do all the duties that 
belong to us as members of Christ to fellow-mem- 
bers; which we cannot do, if separate from them; as 
a natural member cannot perform its office to other 
members, if separate from them. 

Seconpiy, The means must be used rightly for the 
attaining of holiness only in Christ. 

1st, One rule is, Do not trust in church-membership, 
or on churches, as if this or that relation in fellowship 
commended you to God of itself; whereas, a church- 
way is buta help to fellowship with Christ, and wallk- 
ing in the duties of that fellowship. The Israelites 
stumbled at Christ, by trusting on their carnal privi- 


leges, and set them in opposition to Christ ; whereas, — 


they should only have made them subservient to 
Christ. Confidence in them should have been aban- 
doned, as Paul’s example teacheth.* We must not 
glory in Paul, Apollos, Cephas, but in Christ; else 


we glory in the fiesh, and in men.t Trusting on- 


* Phil. ili, 3, 4,5. ft 1 Cor, i, 12, 13, & iti, 21, 


Direct, XIII. OF SANCTIFICATION, 279 


church-privileges is an inlet to formality and licen- 
tiousness ;* and thence the corruption of the churches. 

2ndly, Follow no church any further than you 
may follow it in the way of Christ ; and keep fellow- 
ship with it only upon the account of Christ, because 
it follows Christ, and hath fellowship with Christ.t 
if a church revolt from Christ, we must not follow it, 
how ancient soever it may be; as, the Israclitish 
church was not to be followed, when it persecuted 
Christ and his Apostles; and many, by adhering to 
that church, fell from Christ. We are indeed to 
hear the church, but not every one that calls itself so, 
and none any farther than it speaketh as a true church, 
according to the voice of the shepherd. We must 
subject ourselves to ministers of Christ, and stewards 
of his mysteries; but must give up ourselves first to 
Christ absolutely, and to the church according to the 
will of Christ. Our fear must not be taught by the 
precepts of men, The doctrines of any men are to be 
tried by Seripture, whatever authority they pretend 
to. An unlimited following church-guides brought 
the church into Babylon, and into all manner of 
spiritual whoredoms and abominations. You are not 
baptized into the name of the church, but into the 
name of Christ.§ 

3dly, Do not think that you must not attain this 
or that degree of grace, before you join yourself in 
full communion with a church of Christ in all ordin- 
ances. But when you have given up yourself to Christ, 
and learned the duty of communion ; give up your- 
self unto a church of Christ, though you find much 
weakness and inability. For church ordinances of 
special communion serve to strengthen you ; and how 
can you get heat being alone? ‘The disciples, as soon 
as converted, embraced all fellowship.|| And churches, 
that they may forward holiness in themselves and 


* Jer. vii, 4, 8, 9, 10. ¢ Isaiah i, 10. $1 John i, 3. 
$1 Cor, i, 13. || Acts ii, 42, 


280 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direet. XIII. 


others, must be willing to receive Christ’s weak ones, 
and to feed his lambs, as well as better grown sheep, 
and bear them on their sides,* How else shall Christ’s 
weak ones grow strong by that nourishment that 
other parts supply? ‘They are very unreasonable, 
that expect Christians should grow out of church- 
fellowship, to as high a degree of grace as those that 
are in those pastures of tender grass ; and are unwill- 
ing to receive any that they are like to have occasion 
to bear with; whereas, bearing and long-suffering are 
great duties of church-fellowship.t The weakest have 
most need to be strengthened by church communion ; 
and we are bound to receive them, as Christ hath re- 
ceived us.{ We do not reject or separate the weaker 
parts of the body, but put more honour and comeli- 
ness on them, Admission into the churches in the 
apostolic times was gained upon profession, with a 
show of seriousness ; though tares got in among: the 
wheat, and many scandals arose to the reproach of the 
ways of Christ; and the greatest strictness will not 
keep out all hypocrites; yet the best care must be 
taken, so far as not to hinder any that have the least 
truth of grace. 

Athly, Keep communion with a church, for the sake 
of communion with Christ.§ Therefore you must 
keep communion in Christ’s pure ways only, and, 
in them, seek Christ by faith; that, in the enjoy- 
ment of those advantages, you may receive and act 
the godliness and holiness forementioned, and aim at 
spiritual flourishing and growth in grace. Choose 
therefore fellowship with the most spiritual churches. 
Judge of churches and men, according to the rule 
of the new creature;|| and try them; otherwise 
a church may corrupt you. See that thy com- 
munion answers its end, to tend to thy edification, 


not to destruction; which you ought to take all the 


* Isaiah Ixvi, 12. t Eph. iv, 2, 3. _ = Rom. xv, 7. 
§ 1 John i, 3. || 2 Cor, v, 16, 17. q Rev. ii, 2, & ili, 9. 


Direct. XTIT. OF SANCTIFICATION. 281 


advantages of, not only in the church where you are 
a member, but by communion with other churches, 
as occasionally providence casts you among them ; for 
your communion with a particular church obligeth 
to communion with all churches of Christ in his 
ways, as you are called thereto.* And it is an abuse 
to say, we are members of a church in London, and 
therefore refuse fellowship with a church in the 
country ; seeing, if we are members of Christ, we are 
members of one another, whether single persons or 
churches. And endeayour to join in fellowship with 
the godly of the place where you live, that you may 
have the more frequent and constant communion. 
Onesimus, though converted at Rome, must be one of 
the church of the Colossians, because he lived there. 
The union of the saints together in distinct societies, 
according to the places where they lived, was the 
apostolic practice, and cannot be violated without 
sin. Such can best watch over one another, admonish, 
comfort, and edify each other, which is the benefit of 
communion, And they indeed destroy communion, 
that seek a communion where they cannot have this 
benefit. I only add to this head, that church-fellow- 
ship, without practising the ways of Christ, is but a 
conspiracy to take his name in vain, and to counterfeit 
church-fellowship of hypocrites. It is impudence for 
such to invite others to their communion ; tyranny 
to compel them. Every Christian is bound to seck a 
better church-fellowship by reformation; and those 
that do so are the best sons of Christ’s church, who 
inquire, Is this the way to enjoy Christ? a church- 
way being appointed to enjoy Christ. 

5thly, Especially leave not the church in perse- 
cution, when you need its help most, and are then 
most tried whether you wil! cleave to it. This is a 
sign of apostacy.}; We should cleave to one another 


® 1 Cor: x07. + Col. iv, 9, compared with Philemon, ver, 10: 
t Heb. x, 25, 26, 


YN: 


282 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, XIV. 


as one flesh, even to prisons and death; or else we 
deny Christ in his members. 


DIRECTION XIV. 


That you may seek holiness and righteousness only by believing in 
Christ, and walking in him by faith, according to the former direc- 
tions: take encouragement from the great advantages of this way, 
and the excellent properties of it. 


EXPLICATION. 


Tus direction may serve as an epilogue, or conclu- 
sion, by stirring us up unto a lively and cheerful em- 
bracing those gospel rules forementioned, by several 
weighty motives. Many are kept from seeking god- 
liness, because they know not the way to it; or the 
way that they think of seems uncouth, unpleasant, 
disadvantageous, and full of discouragement ; like the 
way through the wilderness to Canaan, which wearied 
the Israelites, and occasioned their many murmur- 
ings.* 

‘Bat this is a way so good and excellent, that those 
that have the true knowledge of it, and desire heartily 
to be godly, cannot dislike it. I shall shew the ex- 
cellency of it in several particulars, But you should 
first call to mind what is the way I have taught, viz. 
union and fellowship with Christ, and by faith in 
Christ, as discovered in the gospel; not by the law, 
or in a natural condition, or by thinking to get it be- 
fore we come to Christ, to procure Christ by it, which 
is striving against the stream: but that we must first 
apply Christ and his salvation to ourselves, for our 
comfort, and that by confident faith; and then wall 
by that faith, according to the new man, in Christ, 
and not as in a natural condition ; and use all means ; 


* Numb, xxi, 4. 


\ 


Direct, XIV. OF SANCTIFICATION, 283 


of holiness rightly for this end. Now, that this is an 
excellent, advantageous way, appears by the follow- 
ing desirable properties of it : 

Firstly, Tt hath this property, that it tends to the 
abasement of all flesh, and exaltation of God only in 
his grace and power through Christ. And so it is 
agreeable to God’s design in all his works, and the end 
that he aimeth at: anda fit means for the attaining 
the end that we ought to aim at in the first place, 
which is the hallowing, sanctifying, and glorifying 
God’s name in all things; and is the first and chief 
petition; and is the end of all our actings; was the 
end of giving the law. God made all things for Christ, 
and would have him have the pre-eminence in all; 
that the Father may be glorified in the Son.* And 
this property of it is a great argument to prove that 
it isthe way of God, and hath the character of his 
image stamped upon it. We may say that it is like 
him, and a way according to his heart, as Christ 
proveth his doctrine to be of God, by this argument.t 
And Paul proveth the doctrine of justification, and of 
sanctification, and salvation by grace through faith, to 
be of God; because it excludes all boastings of the 
creature.{ This property appears evidently in the 
mystery of sanctification by Christ in us through 
faith. For, 

Ist, It sheweth that we can do nothing by our 
natural will, or any power of the flesh; and that God 
will not enable us to do any thing that way, however 
nature be stirred up by the law or natural helps. 
And so it serveth to work self-loathing and abasement, 
and to make us look upon nature as desperately wick- 
ed, and past cure, and not to be reformed, but put off, 
by putting on Christ. It remains wicked, and only 
Hickees: after we have put on Christ. _ 

2ndly, 1t sheweth that all our good works, and liy- 
‘ing to God, are not by our own power and strength at 


\ # John xiv, a { Jobn vii, 18, ¢ Rom. iii, 27, 28. 


' 


234 TUE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XIV. 


all, but by the power of Christ, living in us by faith ; 
and that God enableth us to act, not merely according 
to our natural power, as he enableth carnal men, and 
all other creatures, but above our own power, YY 
Christ united to us and in us through the Spirit. All 
men live, move, and have their being in him ; and, by 
his universal support and maintenance of nature, in 
its being and activity, they act* so that the glory of 
their acting as creatures belongs to God. But God 
acts more immediately in his people, who are one flesh 
and one spirit. with Christ; and act not by their own 
power, but by the power of the Spirit of Christ in 
them, as closely united to him, and being the living 
temples of his Spirit; so that Christ is the immediate 
principal agent of all their good works, and they are 
Christ’s works properly, who works all our works in 
us and for us: and yet they are the saint’s works by 
fellowship with Christ, by whose light and power the 
faculties of the saints do act and are acted,t so that 
we are to ascribe all our works to God in Christ, and 
thank him for them as free gifts.{ God enableth us to 
act, not by ourselves, as he doth others, but by him- 
self. The wicked are supported in acting only, ac- 


cording to their own nature; so they act wickedly. — 


Thus all are said to live, move, and have their being 
in God. But God enableth us to conquer sin, 
not by ourselves, but by himself; and the glory of 
enabling us doth not esl belong to him, which the 


Pharisee could not but ascribe to him, but also the - 


glory of doing allin us, And yet we work as one 
with Christ, even as he works as one with the Father, 
by the Father working in him. We live as branches 
by the juice of the vine, act as members by the animal 
spirits of the head, and bring forth fruit by marriage 


to him as our husband, and work in the strength of — 


him as the living bread that we feed on. He is all in 


the new man; and all the promises are made good in 
him.§ 


* Heb. i, 3. + Gal, ii, 20. $1 Cor. xv, 10,-, “4 2)Corhiy 20, 


. 


ae OR 


Direct. XIV. OF SANCTIFICATION, 285 


Secondly, It hath this property, that it consisteth 
well with other doctrines of the gospel ; which con- 
trary errors do not. And hence this is the way to 
confirm us in many other points of the gospel: and 
therefore appears to be true, by its harmony with 
other truths, and fit linking with them in the same 
golden chain of the mystery of godliness; and evi- 
dence them to be true, by their harmony with it, I 
have shewed, that men’s mistaking the true way of 
sanctification, is the cause of perverting the scriptures 
in other points of faith, and of declining from the 
truth, to Popish, Socinian, and Arminian tenets ; be- 
cause men cannot seriously take that for truth, which 
they judge not to be according to godliness, But this 
way of holiness will evidence, that these gospel doc- 
trines which they refuse, are according to godliness; 
and those tenets which a blind zeal for holiness moveth 
them to embrace, are indeed contrary to holiness; 
however satan appeareth to their natural understand- 
ings as an angel of light in such tenets. Whatever 
men say, it is certain, that Legalists are indeed the 
Antinomians, I shall instance in some truths confirm- 
ed by it. 

1st, The doctrine of original sin, viz. not only the 
guilt of Adam’s sin, and a corrupt nature, but utter 
impotency to do spiritual good, and proneness to sin, 
which is death to God, in all people according to na- 
ture.* There is an utter inability to keep the law 
truly in any point. Many deny this doctrine, because 
they think, that, if people believe this, they will ex- 
euse their sins by it, and be apt to despair of all striv- 
ing to do good works, and leave off all endeavours, 
and grow licentious; and they think it will be more 
conducing to godliness to hold and teach, either that 
there is no original sin o1 corruption derived from 
Adam, or at least it is done away, either in the world, 
by universal redemption, or in the church, by bap- 


* Psalm li, 5. Rom. vy, 12. 


286 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XIV. 


tism; and that there is free-will restored, whereby 
people are able to incline themselves to do good, that 
men may be more encouraged to set upon good works, 
and their neglect made inexcusable, All this is in- 
deed forcible against seeking and endeavouring for 
holiness by the free-will and power of nature ; which 
is the way of endeavouring which I directed you to 
avoid: and if there were no new way to holinesssince 
the fall, original sin might make us despair; but there 
is a new birth, a new heart, a new creature; and 
therefore we haye directed you to the seeking of holi- 
ness by the Spirit of Christ, and willing good freely 
by a spiritual power, as new creatures, partakers of a 
divine nature in Christ. Yea it is necessary to know 
the first Adam, that we may know the second,* to 
believe the fall, and original sin, that we may be stir- 
red up to fly to Christ by faith for holiness by free 
gift, knowing that we cannot attain it by our own 
power and free-will, There were no need of a new — 
man or a new creation, if the old were not without 
strength and life.t But original deadness cannot 
hinder God’s working faith, and hungerings and thirst- 
ings after Christ, by the Spirit, through the gospel, 
in those that God chooseth to walk holily and blame- 
lessly before him in love.{ And so we are made alive 
in a new head, and become branches of another vine, 
living to God by the Spirit, not by nature. 

2ndly, It confirms us in the doctrine of predestination ; 
which many deny, because they say, it takes men off 
from endeayours, as fruitless, by telling them, that all 
events are predetermined. This argument would be 
more forcible against endeavours by the power of our 
own free-will, but not at all against endeavours for 
holiness by the operation of God, giving us faith and 
all holiness by his own Spirit working in us through 
Christ. We are to trust on Christ for the grace of 
the elect, and God’s good-will toward men. Hleetion 


* Rom. v, 12. f John iii, 5, 6. £1 Thess. i, 4,8. 


Direct. XIV. OF SANCTIFICATION, 


by grace destroys seeking by works, but not hy 
grace. And we are here taught, to seek for salvation 
only in the way of the elect: and we may conclude 
that holiness is to be had by God’s will, and not by 
our own; and it may move us to desire holiness by 
the will of God. And, seeing it appears by this 
doctrine of sanctification through Christ, that we are 
God’s workmanship as to all the good wrought in us, 
we may well admit, that he hath appointed his plea- 
sure from eternity, without en the natural 
liberty of our corrupt wills, which reacheth not unto 
good works, Man’s natural free-will may well con- 
sist with God’s decree; as in paradise. Decretum 
radix contingentia. 
8dly, It confirms us in the true doctrine of justifica- 
tion and reconciliation with God by faith, relying on 
the merits of Christ’s blood, without any works of 
our own, and without considering faith as a work to 
procure favour by the righteousness of the act, but 
only as a hand to receive the gift, or as the very cat- 
ing and drinking of Christ actually, rather than any 
kind of condition entitling us to him as our food. 
This great doctrine of the gospel many hate, as break- 
ing the strongest bonds of holiness, and opening a 
way to all licentiousness; for they reckon that the 
conditionality of works to attain God’s favour, and 
avoid his wrath, and the necessity of them to salva- 
tion, are the most necessary and effective impulses to 
all holiness; and they account, that the other doc- 
trine opens the flood gates to licentiousness, And 
truly this consideration would be of some weight, if 
people were to be brought to holiness by moral sua- 
sion, and their natural endeavours stirred up by the 
terms of the law, and by slavish fears and mercenary 
hopes; for the force of these motives would be alto- 
gether enervated by the doctrine of justification by 
free grace. But I have already shewed, that a man, 
being a guilty dead creature, cannot be brought to 
‘serve Goa ont of love by force of any of these motives ; 


} 


288 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XIV. 


and that we are not sanctified by any of our own en- 
deavours to work holiness in ourselves, but rather by 
faith in Christ’s death and resurrection, even the same 
whereby we are justified, and that the urging of the 
law stirs up sin ; and that freedom from it is neces- 
sary to all holiness, as the apostle teacheth.* And 
this way of sanctification confirms the doctrine of 


justification by faith, as the apostle informeth.¢ For 


if we are sanctified, and so restored to the image of 
God and life, by the Spirit through faith, it is evident 
that God hath taken us into his favour, and pardoned 
our sins, by the same faith, without the law; or else 
we should not have the fruits and effects of his fayour 


thereby to our eternal salvation.{ Yea, his justice — 


would not admit his giving life without works, if we 


were not made righteous in Christ by the same faith, 
And we cannot trust to have holiness freely given us 
by Christ, upon any rational ground, except we can, 
also trust on the same Christ for free reconciliation.) 


and forgiveness of sins for our justification. Neither 


can guilty cursed creatures, that cannot work by rea- 
son of their deadness under the curse, be brought to 
a rational love of God, except they apprehend his 
loving them first freely without wong 

objection and reason of so many controversies and 


books written about it, is because they think that men — 
will trust to be saved, however they live. Butsanc- — 


tification is an effect of justification, and floweth from 
the same grace; and we trust for them both by the 
same faith, and for the latter in order to the former. 
And such a faith, be it never so confident, tendeth not 
to licentiousness, but to holiness; and we grant, that 
justification by grace destroys holiness by legal endea- 
vours, but not by grace. So that there is no need to 
live a Papist and die an Antinomian.. 


4thly, It confirms us in the doctrine of real union i 


* Rom. vi, 11, 14, and vii, 4, 5. t Rom. viii, 1. t Rom. viii, a, i 


$1 John iy, 19. 


The great — 


Direct. XIV. OF SANCTIFICATION. 289 


with Christ so plentifully held forth in seripture, which 
doctrine some account a vain notion, and cannot en- 
dure it, because they think it worketh not holiness, 
but oo whereas I have shewed that it is 
absolutely necessary for the enjoyment of spiritual 
life and holiness, which is treasured up in Christ, and 
that so inseparably, that we cannot have it without a 
real union with him.* The members and branches 
cannot live without union with the vine and head, nor 
the stones be part of the living temple, except they be 
really joined, mediately or immediatel , to the corner 
stone. 

5thly, It confirms us in the doctrine of certain final 
_ perseverance of the saints. They think this doctrine 
maketh people careless of good works. I answer, it 
maketh people careless of seeking them by their own 
natural strength, and in a way of slavish fear; but 
careful and courageous in trusting on the grace of 
God for them, when they are brought, by regenera- 
tion, heartily to desire them; setting upon the doin 
of them in that grace.t And I have shewed, that all 
fears of damnation will never bring persons to work 
out of love, and that nothing will do it but a comfort- 
able doctrine. 

Thirdly, It has this excellent pipet y, that it is the 
ean effectually-powerful, alone-sufiicient, 
and sure way to attain true holiness. They that have 
the truth in them, find it; and the truly bumbled 
find it. People strive in vain when they seek it any 
other way; therefore venture with the lepers, else 
you die.{ All other ways either stir up sin, or in- 
crease despair in you; as seeking holiness by the law, 
and working under the curse doth, and breeds but 
slavish and hypocritical obedienceat best, and restrains 
sin only, instead of mortifying it.§ The Jews sought 
another way, and could not attain it. And all that 


* 2 Cor, xiii, 5, {1 Thess. v, 8, 11. $2 Kings vii. Isa, lv, 2, 3,7. 
§ Gal. iv, 25. 
23 


290 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct, XIV. 


seek it another way, shall lie down in sorrow. And 
that (1.) because, as we are under the law in our na- 
tural state, we are dead, and children of wrath. And 
the law curseth us, instead of helping us, and giveth 
no life by its obligation. And we cannot work holi- 
ness in ourselves. So that an humbled person finds 
it in vain to seek holiness by the law, or his own 
strength, for the law is weak through our flesh. 
Seeking a pure life without a pure nature, is building 
without a foundation. And there is no seeking anew 
nature from the law, for it bids us make brick with- 
out straw, and saith to the cripple, Walk, without 
giving any strength. (2.) In hts way only God is 
reconciled to us, even in Christ. And so he loves us, 
and is a fit object of our love. And so, in this way 
only, we have a new and divine nature by the Spirit 
of Christ in us, effectually carrying us forth to holi- 
ness with life and love, and have new hearts according 
to the law, so that we serve God heartily according 
to the new nature, and cannot but serve him, So 
that here is a sure foundation for godliness, and love 
to God with all our heart, might and soul ; and sin is 
not only restrained but mortified, and not only the 
outside made clean, but the inside, and the image of 
God renewed ; and holy actings surely follow. We 
sin not according to the new nature, though we are 
not perfect in degree, beeause of the old nature, 

Fourthly, itis a most pleasant way to those that 
are in it;* and that in several respects. 

1st. It is a most plain way, easy to be found to one 
that seeth his own deadness under the law, and isso 
renewed in the spirit of his mind, as to know and be 
persuaded of the truth of the gospel. Though such 
may be troubled and pestered with many legal 
thoughts and workings; yet when they seriously con- 
sider things, the way is so plain that they think it 
folly and madness to go any other way; so that the 


* Prov. iii, 17. 


Direct. XIV. OF SANCTIFICATION. 291 


way-faring men, though fools, shall not err therein,* 
The enlightened soul cannot think of another way, 
when truly humbled. And, when we are in Christ, 
we haye his Spirit to be our guide in this way. So 
that we need not be filled with such distracting 
thoughts about knowledge of our way, as legal spirits 
are about thousands of cases of conscience, which do 
so multiply a7 them, that they despair of finding 
out the way of religion, by reason of so various doubts 
and manifold intricacies. Here, we may be sure, that 
God will so far teach us our duties, as that we shall 
not be misled with error, so as to continue in it to 
destruction. What a trouble is it to a traveller to be 
doubtful of his way, and without a guide, when his 
business is of great importance, upon life and death ? 
It is even an heart-breaking. But those that are in 
this way, may be sure that though they sometimes 
err, yet they shall not err destructively, but shall 
discern their way again.t 

2Qndly, It is ot to those that wall in it by the Spirit, 
though it be difficult to get into it, by reason of the 
opposition of the flesh or devil scaring us, or seducing 
us from it. Here you have holiness as a free gift re- 
ceived by faith, an act of the mind and soul. Who- 
soever will, may come, take it, and drink freely, and 
nothing is required but a willing mind ;{ but the law 
is an intolerable burden, if duty be laid on us by its 
terms. We are not left in this way to conquer lusts 
by our endeavours, which is a successless work ; but 
what is duty is given, and the law is turned into pro- 
mises. We have all now in Christ, This is a catholic 
medicine, instead of a thousand. How pleasant would 
this free gift, holiness, be to us, if we knew our own 
wants, inabilities, and sinfulness? How ready are 
some to toil continually, and macerate their bodies in 
a melancholy legal way to get holiness, rather than 
perish for ever? And, therefore, how ready should 


* Isa, xxxv,8. Prov. viii, 9. t Gal. iv, 7,10. t Johh vii, 38. 


| ey | 


292 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY Direct. XIV. 


we be, when it is only, take and have; believe, and be 
sanctified and saved? Christ’s burden is light by his 
Spirit’s bearing it. No weariness, but renewing of 
strength, 

8rdly, It is a way of peace, free from fears and ter- 
rors of conscience, that those meet with ronan ably 
who seek salvation by works, for the law worket 
wrath. It is not the way of mount Sinai, hut of Jer- 
usalem. The doubts of salvation that pearls meet 
with, arise from putting some condition of works be- 
tween Christ and themselves, as hath appeared in this 
discourse. But our walking in this way is by faith, 
which rejects such fears and doubtings. It is free 
from fears of satan, or any evil, and free from slavish 
fears of perishing by our sins, faith laying hold on in- 
finite grace, mercy, and power, to secure us: the Lord 
is the keeper and shade on the right hand, Free and 
powerful grace answers all objections. ; 

4thly, It is a way that is paved with love, like So- 
lomon’s chariot. e are set to God’s loving-kindness 
and all the gifts of his love still before our eyes, Christ’s 
death, resurrection, intercession, beforeour eyes; which 
breed peace, joy, hope, love. You must believe for 
your justification, adoption, the gift of the Spirit, and 
a future inheritance, your death and resurrection with 
Christ. In believing for these things, your whole way 
is adorned with flowers, and hath thee fruits growing 
on each side, so that it is through the garden of Eden 
rather than the wilderness of Sinai. It is the office of 
the Spirit or guide to be our comforter, and not a spirit 
of bondage. Peace and joy are great duties in this 
way. God doth not drive us on with whips and terrors, 
and by the rod of the schoolmaster, the law, but leads 
us, and wins us to walk in his ways, by allurements. 

5thly, Our very moving, acting, walking, in this 
way, is a pleasure and delight. Every good work is 
done with pleasure; the very labour of the way is 
pleasant. Carnal men wish duties were not necessary 
and they are burdensome to them: but they are plea- 


a 


Direct, XIV. OF SANCTIFICATION. 293 


sant to us, because we do not gain holiness by our own 
carnal wrestling with our lusts and crossing them, out 
of carnal fear, with regret and grief, and setting con- 
science and the law against them, to hinder their act- 
ings; but we act naturally, according to the new 
nature, and perform our new spiritual desires, by 
walking in the ways of God through Christ; and our 
lusts and pleasures in sin are not only restrained, but 
taken away in Christ, and pleasures in holiness freely 
given us, and implanted inus. We have a new taste 
and savour, love and liking, by the Spirit of Christ: 
and loolx on the law, not as a burden, but as our pri- 
vilege in Christ. 

ifthly, It is a high exalted way, above all other 
ways. Unto this way the prophet Habakkuk is ex- 
alted, when, upon the failure of all visible helps and 
supports, he resolves to rejoice in the Lord, and joy in 
the God of his salvation ; and making God his strength 
by faith, his feet should be as hind’s feet, and should 
walls upon his high places. These are the heavenly 
places in Christ Jesus, that God hath set us in, being 
quickened and raised up together with him. 

Ist, We live high here, for we live not after the 
flesh, but after the Spirit, and Christ in us, with all 
his fulness. We walk in fellowship with God dwell- 
ing in us, and walking in us. And therefore, our 
works are of higher price and excellency than the 
works of others, because they are wrought in God ; 
and are the fruits of God’s Spirit. And we may know 
that they are accepted and good, by our gospel prin- 
ciples, which others have not. 

2ndly, We are enabled to the most difficult duties, 
and nothing is too hard for us. See the great works 
done by faith—works that carnal men think folly and 
madness to venture upon, (they are so great) and 
honourable achievements, in doing and suffering for 
Christ. 

3rdly, We walk in an honourable state with God, 
and on cela ei terms; not as guilty creatures, to 

2B 2 


j 


294 THE GOSPEL MYSTERY, EVc. Direct. XIV. 


get our pardon by works, nor as bond-servants, to earn 
our meat and drink, but as sons and heirs, poking 
towards the full possession of that happiness to whic 
we have a title; and so we have much boldness in 
God’s presence. We can approach nearer to God than 
others, and walk before him confidently, without 
slavish fear, not as strangers, but as such who are of 
his own family. And this prompts us to do greater 
things than others; walking as free men. It is a 
kindly way ; the law to us is a royal law—a law of 
liberty and our privilege, not a bond and yoke of 
compulsion, 

4thly, It is the way only of those that are honour- 
able and precious in the eyes of the Lord, even his 
elect and redeemed ones, whose special privilege it is 
to walk therein; no unclean beast geeth there. No 
carnal man can walk in this way, but only those that 
are taught of God. Nor would it have come into our 
hearts without divine revelation. 

5thly, The preparing this way cost Christ very dear. 
It is a costly way. ; 

6thly, It is a good old way, wherein thou mayest 
follow the footsteps of all the flock. - 

Tthly, It is the way to perfection. It leads to such 
holiness which shall, in a while, be absolutely perfect. 
It differs only in the degree and manner of manifesta- 
tion from the holiness of heaven: there the saints live 
by the same Spirit, and thesame God is allinall; and 
have the image of the same spiritual man. Only here 
we have but the first fruits of the Spirit, and live by 
faith, and not by sight; and are not full grown in 
Christ. Sanctification in Christ is glorification begun, 
as Glorification is sanctification perfected, 


THE 


DOCTRINE OF JUSTIFICATION 


OPENED AND APPLIED. 


Romans iii, 23, 24, 25, 26. 


“‘ For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God;”” 

“* Belng justified freely by his grace, through the redemption that Is in 
Jesus Christ :** 

“ Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation, through faith in his 

* plood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are 
passed, through the forbearance of God;”’ 

“ To declare, I say at this time his righteousness; that he might be 
just, and the justifler of him which believeth in Jesus." 


Tux apostle, having confuted and overthrown all 
justification, either of Jew or Gentile, by works, in 
‘the foregoing discourse, is now proving what he as- 
rted.* “That the righteousness of God without the 
ww is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the 
a hets ; even the righteousness of God which is by 
aith of Jesus Christ unto all, and upon all them that 
believe, for there is no difference :” shewing, that now 
in the gospel times, there is no difference between Jew 
and Gentile ; but that in the justification of both, the 
righteousness of God, without the law is manifested. 
This he proveth, by shewing what the gospel teacheth 
concerning the way of justification; for the gospel 
only reveals the righteoysness of God.t “I am not 
ashamed of the gospel of Christ; for therein is the 
righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith,” 


* Vey, 21, 22. Rom, i, 16, 17. 


| 


296 THE DOCTRINE OF JUSTIFICATION 


So the words are a declaration of the gospel way of 
justification by the righteousness of God ; and that so 
clearly and fully, and the benefit spoken of, so great 
and glorious, being the first benefit that we receive by 
union with Christ, and the foundation of all other 
benefits: that my text is accounted to be evangelium 
evangelii, a pe fs part of the written gospel, as 
briefly, and yet fully expressing this excellent point 
more than any other text. 

Note in the words particularly, the subject declared 
and explained, viz. justification of persons, or their 
being justified. And the meaning of it here is to be 
cleared and freed from all ambiguities and misunder- 
standing. Justification signifieth making just, as saric- 
tification is making holy, glorification making glori- 
ous; but not making just by infusion of grace and 
holiness into a person, as the Papists teach, confound- 
ing justification and sanctification together; but mak- 
ing Just, in trial and judgment, by a judicial sentence 
discharging guilt, freeing from blame and accusation ; 
approving, judging, owning, and pronouncing a per- 
son to be righteous. Use alters the signification from 
the notation. It is a juridical word or law-term, and 
hath reference to trial and judgment, “ With me it is 
a very small thing, that I should be judged of you, 
or of man’s judgment: yea I judge not mine own self, 
For I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby 
justified: but he that judgeth me is the Lord.” And 
it is so opposed to condemnation in judgment.* “Tf 
there be a controversy between men, and they come 
unto judgment, that the judges may judge them, then 
they shall justify the righteous and condemn the 
wicked.t By thy words thou shalt be justified, and 
by thy words thou shalt be condemned.” And it is 
opposed both to accusation and condemnation. “ Who 
shall lay any thing to the charge of God’s elect? Who 
is he that condenimeth? If 1 justify myself, my own 


* Deut. xxv, 1. + Matt. xii, 37. 


i 


OPENED AND APPLIED. 297 


mouth shall condemn me, I will maintain mine own 
ways before him. I have ordered my cause; I know 
that I shall be justified. Who is he that will plead 
with me?” Here justification is plainly opposed to 
the passing sentence of condemnation. “ Do, and 
judge thy servants, condemning the wicked, to bring 
is way upon his head, and justifying the righteous, 
to give him according to his righteousness.” In this 
sense it is a sin to justify the wicked. Actions must 
be existent already, and brought to trial, that they 
ip be justified. 
ustice or righteousness consists not in the intrinsic 
nature of an action, but in its agreeableness to a rule 
of judgment: so that actions are called just and right- 
eous by an extrinsical denomination, with relation to 
God’s rule of judging. And this righteousness ap- 
por by trying the action according to the rule, and 
yy making an estimate of it; which estimate is either 
approving or disapproving, justifying or condemn- 
ing, finding it to be sin, or no sin, or breach of the 
law. So we may say of the righteousness of persons, 
with reference to such habits or actings. And, be- 
cause the righteousness of righteous persons appears 
when they are brought to trial and judgment, these. 
fore they are said then to be in a special manner jus- 
tified, as if they were then made righteous ; viz, a gn 
their righteousness is declared; as Christ was said to 
be begotten the Son of God at the resurrection ; be- 
cause he was, then declared to be the Son of God.* 
And in the same sense, we that are adopted at present, 
are said to wait for our adoption, i.e. the manifesta- 
tion of it. And thus even God is said to be justified, 
when we judge of his actions as we ought to do, and 
deem them to be righteous; though nothing can be 
added to the infinite righteousness of God. And wis- 
dom is said to be justified of her children. So justifi- 
cation is not a real change of a sinner in himself, 


* Rom. i, 4, 


298 THE DOCTRINE OF JUSTIFICATION 


(though areal change is annexed to it,) but only a 
relative change with reference to God’s judgment. 
And thus the word is used in the text, and so also in 
matters of judicature throughout the scripture. Yea, 
some contend against the Papists, that it is no where 
in scripture used otherways, except by a trope bor- 
rowed from this as the proper sense. And in the text 
it is beyond all doubt meant of being deemed and ac- 
counted just in the sight of God; for such a justifi- 
cation is here only treated of as appears in the text. 
And I have been the longer explaining the sense of 
the word, because the mistaking it, by reason of its 
composition, occasioned that Popish error, whereby 
the benefit signified by it is obscured, yea overthrown ; 
so that we had need to contend for the sense of the 
word. 

In the text we have, ; 

1. The persofis justified, (1.) Sinners, (2.) Such 
sinners of all sorts that shall believe, whether Jews 
or Gentiles. 

2. The justifier, or efficient cause, God. 

3. The impulse cause, grace. 

4, The means effecting, or material cause, the re- 
demption of Christ. “ues 

5. The formal cause, the remission of sins. 

6. The instrumental cause, faith. 

7. The time of declaring, the present time. 

8. The end, that God may appear just. 

From hence therefore will arise several useful ob- 
servations, all tending to explain the nature of justifi- 
cation, which shall be laid down, and cleared out of 
the text, and confirmed particularly: and then J shall 
make use of them altogether. : 

OnsErvarion I. “They who are justified are sinners, 
such who are come short of the glory of God;” 4. e. 
of God’s approbation; of God’s image of holiness; of 
eternal happiness.* 


* 1 Thess, ii, 12, Rom.v,2. 2 Cor. iv, 17. 


OPENED AND APPLIED, 299 


1. The law condemns all sinners, and strikes them 

- dead as with a thunder-bolt ; and adjudgeth them to 

shame, confusion, and misery, instead of glory and 

happiness, by the strict terms of it ; which none ful- 

fil; neither can do; neither Jews nor Gentiles, There 
is no hope, if free grace restored them not, 

2. Christ came only to save sinners, and died for 
this end, “ When we were yet without strength, in 
due time, Christ died for the ungodly. This is a 
faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that 
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of 
whom I am chief. I am not come to call the righte- 
ous, but sinners to repentance. The Son ‘of man is 
come to save that which was lost.” And God must 
be believed on to salvation, asa God that justifieth 
the ungodly; he must believe as one that worketh 
not, on him that justifieth the ungodly.* 

OpseRvATION II. “Sinners of all sorts, without 
difference, whether Jews or Gentiles, that believe, are 
the subjects of this justification.” This is the scope of 
the apostle to shew, that, whereas Jews and Gentiles 
were universally condemned by the light and law of 
nature, or the law written; so the righteousness of 
God is upon all them that believe, without difference. 
This was a great point to be defended against the Jews 
in the apostle’s time, who appropriated justification 
to themselves in a legal way and to such as were pro- 
selytes to the law and circumcision ; and therefore the 
apostle Paul vehemently urged it. And it was a point 
newly revealed to the apostles, that the Gentiles might 
be accepted, without turning Jews, and much prized 
as a very glorious revelation. And it is confirmed. 

. 1. Because, notwithstanding the Jews’ privilege of 
the law, by reason of breaking the law, they had as 
much need of free justification as the Gentiles, and no 
worthiness above the Gentiles by their works, but 
were rather greater sinners. And, when there is equal 


* Rom. iv, v. 


300 THE DOCTINE OF JUSTIFICATION 


need and worth, God might righteously justify one as 
well as another.* 

2. God is the God of the Gentiles as well as of the 
Jews; as he promised. 

8. Abraham was justified before he was cireumcis- 
ed, that he might be the father of those that believe, 
though uncircumcised, that they might inherit the 
same blessing. t 

4, This will appear farther, by shewing, that jus-- 
tification is only by faith, and without dependence 
upon the law, merely by the righteousness of another ; 
and so Jews and Gentiles are alike capable of it. 

Osservation III. “That the justifier, or efficient 
cause of justification, is God.” It is an act of God.t 
It is God that justifieth. He only can justify autho- 
ritatively and irreversibly. 

1. Because he is the lawgiver, and hath power to 
save and destroy.§ This case concerns God’s law, 
and can only be tried at his tribunal. He is the judge 
of the world. It is a small worthless thing to ie 
justified by man, or by ourselves merely. || 

2. To him the debt of suffering for sin, and acting 
righteousness, is owed: and therefore he only can give 
a discharge for payment, or release of the debtor.4] 

Orsrervation IV. “ God justifieth souls freely by 
his grace, Swpeov rn adrov yapirt freely by his grace.” 
One of these expressions had been enough; but this 
redoubling it sheweth the importance of the truth, to 
quicken our attention the more. Here is the impulse 
cause of justification, and his free manner of bestow- 
ing it accordingly. And this signifies God’s free un- 
deserved favour, in opposition to any works of our 

- righteousness whereby it might be challenged as a 
debt to us. “ Now to him that worketh,” is the‘re- 
ward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. Ifby grace, 
then it is no more of works: otherwise grace is no 


* Rom. iii, 9. + Rom. iv, 10, 11, 12. + Rom, viii, 33. 
§ Jam. iv, 12. |) 1 Cor. iv, 3, 4. ¥ Psalm li, 4. 


OPENED AND APPLIED, 301 


more grace. But if it be of works, then it is no more 
grace.* By grace are ye saved, through faith; and 
that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God: not of 
works, lest any man should boast. Who hath saved 
us, and called us with a holy calling, not according to 
our works, but according to his own purpose and 
grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the 
world began. But is now made manifest by the ap- 
pearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ, &c.” Grace is 
mercy and love showed freely out of God’s proper 
motion ; shewing mercy because he will shew mercy ; 
and loving us because he will love us.t And this is 
confirmed. 

1. Because there was not, nor is any thing in us, 
but what might move God to condemn us; for we 
have all sinned.t 

2. Because God would take away boasting, and 
have his grace glorified and exalted in our salvation. 
He will have all the praise and glory, though we have 
the blessedness.§ ‘That in the ages to come, he 

ight shew the exceeding riches of his grace, in his 
kindness towards us, through Christ Jesus.” || 

Oxservation V. God justifieth sinners through the 
redemption that is in Jesus Christ, whom God hath 
set forth to be a propitiation, through faith in his 
blood.”’ This is the affecting means, or material cause 
of our justification, viz. redemption and propitiation 
through the blood of Christ ; which is the righteous- 
ness of God treasured up in him. 

By redemption is meant properly such a deliverance 
as is by paying a price ; and so the words, redeem and 
redemption, are frequently used. From this proper 
signification it is borrowed to signifiy a deliverance 
without price ;{[ or rather, by a metonymy of the 
cause, put for the highest effect, the state of glory : 
so that the state of glory is called redemption, as be- 


* Rom. xi, 6. f Rom. ix, 15. t Eph. if, 3. 
§ Eph. il, 7, 9. || Rom. iii, 27. ¥ Luke xxi, 28. 
2c 


| 


302 THE DOCTRINE OF JUSTIFICATION 


ing the completing and crowning effect of Christ’s 
redemption ; therefore it is called the purchased pos- 
session. 

By a propitiation is meant that which appeaseth 
the wrath of God for sin, and wins his favour. And 
this propitiation of Christ is two ways typified: first, 
in the propitiatory sacrifices whose blood was shed: 
and 2ndly, by the mercy-seat; which was called the 
propitiation, because it covered the ark, wherein was 
the law : and the blood of the sacrifices for atonement 
was sprinkled by the ee before it. And this 
mercy-seat was a sign of God’s favourableness to a 
sinful people, in residing among them, and was called 
Traoryptov.™ : : 

Now this doctrine appears confirmed for these 
reasons. 

1. Because Christ by the will of God gave himself a 
ransom for us, to redeem us from sin and punishment, 
wrath and curse.t He gave himself for us, to redeem 
us from all iniquity, he gave himself to death for us ; 
was delivered for our offences ; his death was the price 
of our redemption, that we might be justified in God’s 
sight. God gave him up to death, he spared him not, 
that he might be made righteousness. “ He gave his 
own life a ransom for many: and so he bought us 
with this price.t He redeemed us not with silver and 
gold, but with his precious blood, as of a lamb with- 
out spot.”§ “ He suffered the penalty due to us for 
sin.’ “He bare our sins in his own body on’ the 
tree.”|| He was made a curse for us,” and thereb 
redeemed us from the curse of the law: and, that he 
might be made a curse, he was made sin for us. He 
subjected himself to the law, in active as well as pas- 
sive obedience; and obeyed his Father even to death, 
doing and suffering at his commandment; and his 
obedience was for our justification. So Christ satis- 


* Heb. ix, 5. + Tit. ii, 14. $11 Cor, vi, 20. 
§1 Pet. i, 18, 19. || Gal. iii, 13, { 2 Cor. v, 21. 


OPENED AND APPLIED. 303 


fied both for our debt of righteousness, and debt of 
punishment: for our faultiness, taint of sin, and want 
of righteousness, as well as for our guilt, and obnoxi- 
ousness to punishment; that we might be free from 
wrath, and deemed righteous in God’s sight. Hissuf- 
fering was the consummating act of redemption ; and 
so all is attributed to it; eyen to his blood; though 
other doings and sufferings concur, We are righte- 
ous by him, as we were guilty by Adam.* 

2. God accepteth this price as a satisfaction to his 
justice, which he shewed in raising Christ from the 
dead, and so acquitting him from all our sins: “ He 
was justified in the Spirit for us; raised for our justi- 
fication. It is God that justifieth: who is he that 
condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea rather that 
is risen from the dead. By one offering he hath per- 
fected for ever them that are.sanctified. This sacri- 
fice was asweet smelling savour unto God,” If Christ 
had sunk under the weight of our sins, and not been 
raised, the payment had not been finished, and so the 
debt not discharged, of righteousness, because I go 
to my Father. 

3. This redemption is in Christ, as to the benefit of 
it; so that it cannot be had, except we be in Christ, 
and have Christ: so the text expresseth, and sheweth, 
that he is the propitiation ; and, as so, he is our right- 
cousness, we a redemption and righteousness in 
him ; and therein our freedom from condemnation. 
Christ died, that his seed might be justified; those 
that are in him by a spiritual generation. 

Oxservation VI. “The formal cause of justifica- 
tion, or that wherein it consists, is the remission of 
sin, 7. e, not only the guilt and punishment is remoy- 
ed, but the fault ; because it is a pardon grounded on 
justice, which cleareth the fault also. By him we 
are justified from all things that the law charges us 
with.”+ | 


/ 


* Rom. y, 12. +1 Cor. iv, 15. t Acts xiii, 39. 


304 THE DOCTRINE OF JUSTIFICATION 


In men subject to a law, there is no middle condi- 
tion between not imputing sin, and imputing righte- 
ousness: and so these terms are used as equivalent.* 
“ Through this man is preached the forgiveness of 
sins: and by him all that believe, are justified, &c.” 
« This is through the bloodshed of Christ.” 

Oxsevation VII. “God justifieth a sinner through 
faith in Christ’s blood.” Faith is the instrumental 
cause of receiving this benefit, faith in the blood of 
Christ. 

1. This faith is a believing on Christ, that we may 
be justified by him; “knowing that a man is not 
justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of 
Jesus Christ that we might be justified by the faith 
of Christ, and not by the works of the law.’’? We be- 
lieve in Christ for justification, out of a sense of our 
inability to obtain justification by works. 

2. This faith doth not justify us, as an act of right- 
eousness, earning and procuring our justification by 
the work of it ; for this would have been justification 
by works, as under the law; diametrically opposite to 
grace, and free gift: which excludes all consideration 
of any works of ours, to be our righteousness, under 
any denomination or diminutive terms whatever, 
whether you call it legal or evangelical ; though you 
reckon it no more than the payment of a pepper- 
corn.t Faith in this case is accounted a not-work- 
ing.t And it is not faith that stands instead of the 
righteousness of the law, but the righteousness of 
Christ, which satisfieth for what we ought to have 
done or suffered; as hath been shewed. 

3. God justifieth by faith, as the instrument where- 
by we receive Christ, and his righteousness ; by which 
we are justified properly : and we are justified by faith 
only metonymically, by reason of the righteousness 
received by it: and to be justified by faith and by 
Christ, is all one. By faith we receive remission of 

' 
* Acts xiii, 38, 39. + Rom. xi 6. t Rom. iv. 5. 


OPENED AND APPLIED. 305 


sins. Its effect, is the reception of justification, not 
the working in it ; as a man may be said to be main- 
tained by his hands, or nourished by his mouth, when 
those do but receive that which nourisheth, his food 
and drink. The cup is put for the liquor in the cup. 
Christ is in us by faith ; received, ate, drank.”* 

4, This faith is to be understood exclusively, to all 
our works for justification. We defend, against the 
bie, ets justification by faith only: and there is 
nothing more fully expressed in scripture phrase. 

5. We must understand faith in a full sense, of re- 
ceiving remission of the fault, as well as of the punish- 
ment. We believe, God accounts not the fault to us 
of the least sin, And, where faith is said to be ac- 
counted for righteousness, it is because of the object 
it receives. We believe, Christ’s righteousness is im- 
puted to us, as our sins are to him: or else we receive 
not remission of sins by believing: which is contrary 
to charging us with sin and condemnation: which 
charging signifieth sin imputing. Together with the 
removal of the charge of sin, we receive the gift of 
righteousness. And this we have in the reception of 
Christ’s redemption and bloodshed. 

Oxseryation VIII. “That God, in setting forth 
Christ to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, 
aimed to declare his righteosness now under the gos- 
pel, for the remission of sins that are past as well as 
present; of those sins that were past, and committed 
under the Old Testament, which was God’s time of 
forbearing, in pardoning long before his justice was 
actually satisfied by Christ’s atonement. ‘he ground 
of those pardons is now reyealed by Christ’s coming ; 
that those pardons may be no blemish to the justice 
of God now satisfied.§ ~ 

1. By this righteousness is meant that righteousness 
of God mentioned in the proposition; of which the 
text is but a Pedeantion: viz, the righteousness of 
God: not his essential righteousness, that which is an, 


* John i, 12. ¢ Rom, iii, 28. ¢ Eph. i, 7. § Exod, xxxiv, 7. 
2c2 


366 THE DOCTRINE OF JUSTIFICATION 


essential pragerty of God; but a righteousness which 
is upon all them that believe; Christ’s righteousness, 
which is the end of the law;* and therefore called 
God’s righteousness; that which Christ wrought for 
us, which is given to us, and we receive by faith: 
that whereby Christ answered the law for us; by 
which as the price, he redeemed us: which is called 
God’s righteousness, because it is of God’s working, 
and it only hath God’s acceptance and approbation ; 
as Christ is called the Lamb of God, because God 
provided him, and accepts him as an offering.f Upon 
the like account, Christ’s kingdom is ealled the king- 
dom of God, because God’s own hand sets it up, and 
maintains it, and rules it. Christ, who became obe- 
dient to death, to work this righteousness, was God 
as well as man.{ And this is that righteousness 
which the apostle opposeth to his own; that which 
is in Christ; which he had through faith. And this 
is the righteousness of God here, and in other places ; 
the righteousness which is of God by faith.§ 

2. God aimed at declaring, in gospel times, his 
righteousness in forgiving sins past, in the time of 
God’s forbearance under the Old Testament; and also 
in justifying those that believe in Christ at present: 
for it was by the righteousness of the same Christ, 
that sins were pardoned under the Old Testament as 
well. as pelea Christ was the Lamb slain from the 
foundation of the world; only the righteousness was 
not actually fulfilled and revealed then, but it was 
shadowed out then, by the sacrifices, ransoms, redemp- 
tions, &c. So this was a time of God’s forbearance; 
because he pardoned sins, as it were without present 
payment and satisfaction. He had patience, and did 
not exact the debt, until Christ paid all. But then 
God promised, that he would reveal his righteousness 
in due time. And this he hath done by the ap- 
pearance of Christ. 


* Rom. x, 3, 4. + John i, 29. } Phil. ii, 6,8. ' § Phil. iii, 9. 
|| Heb. xiii, 8. 4 2 Tim. i, 10. 


OPENED AND APPLIED. 807 


Oxservation IX. “The end of this manifestation 
is, that God may appear just, in forgiving sins past 
as well as present; and the justifier of him that be- 
lieveth in Jesus.” Here the essential property of 
God is exalted, and appears glorious, in justifying by 
the forementioned righteousness of God. 

1. As God justifieth freely by grace, he would 
appear hereby just in justifying sinners: for it would 
be a blemish to God’s justice, to forgive without a 
satisfaction, and righteousness performed; and there- 
fore, though he be gracious and merciful, yet he will 
not clear the guilty. And so the saints of God con- 
cluded, that God had a righteousness and redemption, 
whereby he forgave sin, though it was not then re- 
vealed.* God would have justice and mercy to meet 
in our salyation.t 

God would have it appear, that he only is just, and 
therefore saveth us, not by our own righteousness, 
but by his, which is indeed the more exalted by our 
unrighteousness occasionally, though God is not there- 
fore unrighteous in taking vengeance. 

3. God would appear to be the only procurer and 
worker of our righteousness, and so our justifier by 
way of procurement, as well as by way of judgment ; 
and so he will justify us by a righteousness of his 
own, and not by our own: that we may glory in the 
Lord only.t 

Usz I. It serves for instruction by way of encourage- 
ment and consolation; that the great happiness of 
those that are in Christ, is that their sins are forgiven, 
and they accounted just in the sight of the Judge of 
all the world, through the redemption that is by the 
blood of Christ; and this benefit contains all blessed- 
ness of life, and the consequences thereof.§ That 
man unto whom God imputeth righteousness without 
works, hath a blessedness therein, and such an exten- 
five blessedness in regard of the spiritual part, as 

a) 
/ 
* Psa, li, 14. + Psa. lxxxv, 10. {1 Cor.i, 30,31, | § Rom. iy, 6, 


308 THE DOCTRINE OF JUSTIFICATION 


Abraham had, comprehending all spiritual blessings 
in Christ: For they which be of taith, are blessed 
with faithful Abraham.* For this righteousness 
being the fundamental blessing, is revealed from faith 
to faith, and they that are by faith just and justified 
through that righteousness, do live by faith always 
erthme it, and receiving nourishment and comfort 
it. j 
71. They are delivered from the charge of sin and 
fault before God. Tis ¢yxanoer; “ Who shall lay any 
thing to their charge, or be suffered to bring in, at 
God’s tribunal, any indictment, charge, or accusation 
against them? It is God that justifieth them: and 
Christ hath died, and rose again. ‘They are redeemed 
from among men, being the first fruits to God and 
the Lamb. In their mouth their is no guile, and 
they are without fault (4 yao) before the throne 
of God.’ t 
2. They are delivered from all condemnation in 
sentence and execution; the curse and wrath of God.§ 
“Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, 
being made a curse for us. Jesus which delivered us 
from the wrath to come. Thou hast taken away all 
thy wrath, thou hast turned thyself from the fierce- 
ness of thine anger.” The wrath of Godis an msup- 
portable burthen, and the foundation of all miseries; 
which foundation is razed, and afoundation of blessed- 
ness laid, whereby we have peace. with God, and are 
fully reconciled to God.|| You that were sometime 
alienated, and “enemies in your mind by wicked 
works, yet now hath he reconciled, in the body of his 
flesh through death, to present you holy and un- 
blameable and unreproveable in his sight.”” Now, 
where there is no blame before God, there can be no 
wrath from God. 
3. They have no need to seek salvation by the 


* Gal. iii, 9. + Rom, i, 17. t Rey. xiv, 4, 5. § Gal. iii, 13. 
|| Rom. iv, 15. 


OPENED AND APPLIED, 309 


works of the law, and so are delivered from a yoke 
that cannot be borne; from endless observances that 
Pharisees and Papists have heaped up ; from continual 
frights, doubts, fears, and terrors, by the law; from a 
wrath-working law; from a sin-irritating law; from 
a killing law, administration of death and condemna- 
tion, Mount Sinai, which gendereth to hondage.* 

4, Hence, they are delivered from’ a condemning 
conscience, which otherwise would still gnaw them 
asa worm.t “If the blood of bulls and of goats, and 
ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth 
to the purifying of the flesh; how much more shall 
the blood of Christ, who, through the eternal Spirit, 
offered himself without spot to God, purge your con- 
science from dead works, to serve the living God.’’ 
oor conscience is a foul conscience; and it will 

ke all services and duties dead works, unfit for 
the service of the living God: it is the blood of Christ 
applied by faith, that takes off this foulness of guilt 
from the conscience; therefore the blood of Christ 
hath the only efficacy this way, to take off the con- 
seience of sin. Hence they come to have a good con- 
science ; void of offence towards God. 

5. It is an everlasting righteousness, by which their 
standing in Christ is secured. ‘It is an eternal redemp- 
tion that is obtained ;§ whereas, by the law, those that 
were justified to-day typically, might fall under con- 
demnation, so far as to need another sacrifice for sin 
to-morrow : they had no real purgation of conscience 
from sin by those sacrifices; and, therefore, could not 
have a lasting delivery of their consciences from guilt 
by them. Here it is far otherwise: here is an effec- 
tual, complete, and perpetual redemption, reaching 
the conscience of the sinner, and for the purging away 
all sins, past, present, and to come.|| 

6. It is a righteousness of infinite value, hecause it 

| 
* Gal, iv, 24, } Heb. ix, 14, t Acts xxiv, 16.) § Heb. ix, 12. 
| 1 John i, 7. 


310 THE DOCTRINE OF JUSTIIFICATION 


is the righteousness of one that is God, and his name 
is JeHovan our Ricureousness.* It is, therefore, 
more powerful to save, than Adam’s sin was to destroy 
or condemn, Christ is here the power of God; hence 
we are powerful, and conquer, by faith. Likewise 
there is a marvellous plenty of mercy and grace, that 
is brought to us by JeHovau our righteousness, plen- 
teous redemption. It must be most plentiful, because 
infinite. Though no creature could satisfy for sin, 
yet Jenovan could do it abundantly ; and, therefore, 
in Christ, God’s mercy prevails high above our sins.t 

7. God’s grace and justice are both engaged on our 
behalf in this righteousness, Justice is terrible, and 
seems to be against mercy, and dreadful to natural 
people, but it is otherwise to believers; it is pacified 
and appeased through this righteousness—it is satisfied 
by Christ for our sins. Justice becomes our friend— 
joins in with grace, and instead of pleading against us, 
it is altogether for us; and it speaks contrary to what 
it speaks to sinners out of Christ. We may also plead 
justice for forgiveness through merey in Christ. 

8. We may be sure of holiness and glory, of delivery 
from the power and dominion of sin, as well as the 
charge of it before God, and guilt in our own con- 
sciences: for this was the end of Christ’s death. 
Whom he justified, them he also glorified. The law 
was the strength of sin, for sin had its title to rule in us 
by reason of the curse ; and thence Satan often rules: 
but here is our deliverance from sin and Satan, yea 
from death too. And, by the same reason, we are 
raised by this excellent righteousness, to a better state 
than we had in Adam at first; for Christ died that we 
might receive the adoption of sons, and the Spirit ; 
that we might be brought under a new covenant, and 
be set in the right way of holiness, serving out of 
love. 

9. We may be sure, hence, of a concurrence of all 


' 


* Jer, xxiii, 6. Heb. ix, 14. + Psal, ciii, 11, 12, $ Gal. ili, 14. 


OPENED AND APPLIED. 311 


things for our good. All things shall work for good, 
through grace, to bring us to glory; because God is 
for us, who is the Creator and Governor of all things. 
God will neyer be wroth with us, nor rebuke us in , 
anger any more. 

10. Hence, we may come before God without con- 
fusion of face, yea with holiness to the throne of grace 
in Christ’s name, and expect all good things from him. 
“In whom we have boldness and access with confi- 
dence by the faith of him. Let us draw near with 
full assurance of faith.’’ Christ’s blood pleads for us 
in heayen, and we may, and are to plead boldly a 
satisfaction on his account. 

11. We live in those times when this righteousness 
is fully revealed, and sin made an end of. Thisis our 
happiness above those that lived before Christ’s com- 
ing, who were under types and shadows of this righ- 
teousness; whereas we have the substance in its own 
light; and so we are not under the law, which they 
were under, as a schoolmaster. We are not servants, 
but sons called to liberty. The preaching the old co- 
venant as a church ordinance to be urged, now is 
ceased ; the law is not to be preached now in the 
same terms as Moses preached it, for justification ; it 
is contrary in terms to faith, though it were subser- 
vient. 

Use I1.—For examination, whether we be in Christ, 
and have received this justificatlon by faith with all our 
hearts. 

1. Consider whether you be made really sensible of 
sin, and condemnation by the law. ‘This is necessary 
to make us fly to Christ,)and for this, as one great 
end, was the law given. Without sense of sin, there 
will be no prizing of Christ, and desire of holiness, but 
rather abuse of grace to carnal security and licentious- 
ness. ‘Those that were stung with the fiery serpents, 
looked up to the brazen serpent. 

2. Dost thou trust only upon free mercy for justi- 
fication in God’s sight, renouncing all thy works 


{ 


312 THE DOCTRINE OF JUSTIFICATION 


whatever in this point, as not able to stand in them 
before God’s exact justice, crying mercy with the poor 
ublican? Perfectionists, and self-righteous persons 
have no share in this matter. Paul, notwithstand- 
ing all that the world might think he had to plead for 
himself, counted all but dung, that he might win 
Christ and be found in him, not having his own righ- 
teousness, which is of the law, but that which is 
through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which 
is of God by faith; 7.e., the redeeming and propitiating 
righteousness of Christ, whereby he desired only to be 
justified, and which he believed in for that end, op- 
posing it to any thing inherent in himself; which, 
therefore, he calls his own righteousness.* : 

38. Dost thou trust with any confidence on Christ, 
not continuing in a mere suspense? In a way of mere 
doubting we can receive no good thing from God. 
Mere doubting will not loose the conscience from the 
guilt of sin, but leaveth the soul under terror. Abra- 
ham’s confidence is the example and: pattern of our 
justifying faith, that we should endeavour to come up 
unto, believing with a fulness of persuasion, in hope 
against hope. Though a believing soul may be as- 
saulted with many doubtings, yet it fights against 
them, and doth not give up ifsclt to the dominion of 
them. It hath always something contrary to them, 
and striving with them, 

4, Dost thou come to Christ for remission of sins, 
for the right end, namely, that thou mayest be freed 
from the dominion of sin before the living God? If 
otherwise, thou dost not receive it for the right end ; 
and desirest not really the favour and enjoyment of 
God, and to be in friendship with him. E 

5. Dost thou walk in holiness and strive to evidence 
this justification by the fruits of faith in good works? 
If otherwise, thy faith is but a dead faith, for a true 
faith purifieth the heart. If Christ be thine, he will 


* Phil. iii, 7, 8,9. Rom. iy, 5. 


OPENED AND APPLIED. 318 


be sanctification as well as righteousness.* If God 
hath taken thee into his favour, he would doubtless 
cleanse thee. Though faith alone justifies, without 
the concurrence of works, to the act of justification, 
yet that faith is not so alone as not to be accompanied 
with good works ; as the eye alone seeth, yet it is not 
alone without other members. So the apostle James 
declareth faith that is alone to be dead, and biddeth 
us to shew our faith by our works; which is to be un- 
derstood, not as if works were the conditions of attain- 
ing justification, but sure evidences of justification 
attained by faith, and very necessary.f ‘The gospel is 
no covenant of works requiring another righteousness 
for justification by doing for life. Works justify us 
from such accusations of men as will deny us to have 
justification by faith, or that we havea true and lively 
faith, or are good trees ;+ not as being our righteous- 
ness themselves, or conditions of our having Christ’s 
righteousness, or qualifying us for it. 

Use III.—Jt serveth for exhortation to several duties. 

1. To the wicked. It is dehortation unto them 
from continuance in sin, under God’s wrath, running 
headlong to damnation, for here is a door of mercy 
opened to them ; a righteousness prepared, that they 
may be ark accepted of God. Some men are des- 
perados: “They have loved strangers, and after them 
they will go.’§ They are resolved to run the risk of 
it, and please themselves, that they shall speed as well 
as others. And some men would be justified, but seek 
for it na wrong way. Some will go to the Pope to 
quiet their consciences by his deceits; some to their 
own works and performances: but you are exhorted 
to look out for true righteousness. Christ saith in the 
gospel, Behold me, behold me; the kingdom of hea- 
ven is open; merey and Hk eae are freely 
offered. Repentance is preached with remission of 


*1 Cor. i, 30. eae 1,9. John xiii, 8. t James ii, 14, 15. 
t Matt. xii, 33, 37. § Jer. fi, 25. > 
Ba 2D 


{ 


314 THE DOCTRINE OF JUSTIFICATION 


sins. Beware you do not neglect this acceptable time 
—this day of salvation. For, 

(1.) If you do, you remain under the- wrath of 
God ; under the curse of the law: which like a flood 
sweeps away all that are found out of this ark, the 
Lord Jesus Christ. 

(2.) Your condemnation will be aggravated by re- 
fusing so great salvation. You will have no cloak for 
your sins when you refuse mercy. You cannot say 
you are undone, by your past sins, beyond recovery, 
and therefore it is in vain to strive; for, behold, re- 
mission of sins is proclaimed unto you. And what a 
horrid sin is it to despise the blood of the Son of God? 
Oxssection I. “If God justify the ungodly, what 
need J forsake ungodliness at all.” 

Ans. Thou canst not seek justification truly, except 
thou hast a mind to live to God in friendship with 
him, for justification is God’s way of taking us into 
friendship with him, and of reconciling us. The use 
thou art to make of it, is to seek God’s friendship b 
it, and the enjoyment of him. Why doth a man seek 
a pardon if he intend to go on in rebellion, and stand 
out in defiance of his prince?’ They seek pardon ina 
mocking way, that intend not to return to obedience, 

Oxssxcrion I]. “ My sins are so great that I have no 
encouragement to hope.” 

Ans. Christ’s righteousness is for all sorts of sinners 
that believe, whether Jews or Gentiles; and how 
great sinners were of both sorts; and even for those 
that killed and murdered the Lord of Glory; for the 
chief of sinners. Where sin abounds, grace super- 
abounds. Your sins are but the sins of a creature, but 
his righteousness is the righteousness of God. 

Exuorrarton II. It exhorts those that have a mind 
to turn to God, to turn the right way, by faith in © 
Christ for justification. Let them not seek by works, 
as most in the world do, and all are pronetodo. But 


' 
* Psal.. 1,055, 6. 


OPENED AND APPLIED. 815 


this doctrine seems very foolish, yea, pernicious to a 
natural man. “ Become a fool, that thou mayest be 
wise ;”* otherwise you will labour in the fire, and 
weary yourselves for very vanity, and be under con- 
tinual discomforts and discouragements: for you can 
do no good work while you are in the flesh, under the 
law, and its curse, before God has reecived you into 
fayour, for justification is in order of nature before 
true holiness of heart and life. Faith is the great 
worl: and mother duty, and therefore, while you be- 
lieve not, you dishonour Christ and his death. There- 
fore come boldly, though you have been a great sinner, 
and seek righteousness in Christ with holiness,t 

Q. But how shall I get faith? 

A. Faith is the gift of God, and by the gospel. 
Faith cometh by hearing the gospel preached ; and 
that comes, in working faith, not in word only, but 
in power, beyond what can be done by natural or 
human attainment. Therefore if thou hast no begin- 
ning of it in thee, thy only way is to attend to the 
gospel, and to meditate on thy sin and misery, and 
Christ’s excellency, that so thou mayest be inclined in 
thy heart to believe, for this is the way God useth to 
beget faith. But if thou hast a desire and inclination 
to fly from thyself to Christ, in the bent of thy heart, 
so that thou preferrest Christ above ali, then the spirit 
hath begun, and will carry on the work, so that now 
thou mayest pray confidently for faith. + 

OxsECTION ie “But without holiness no man shall 
see the Lord. And how shall I get holiness? I can- 
not sanctify myself; and this confidence you speak of 
may slacken my diligence.” 

ns. If thow hast righteousness in Christ, God will 
make thee holy; and this confidence is the only way 
to get holiness, because of that righteousness. The 
new covenant is confirmed in him, which promiseth 
anew heart. If sin be forgiven, thou shalt be deli- 


/ 


* | Cor. iii, 18. t Rom. vii, 1. { Songi, 4. Luke xi, 13. 


316 THE DOCTRINE OF JUSTIFICATION 


vered from its power, and quel by the same 
death and resurrection of Christ whereby thou art 
justified. 

Exuorration III. It exhorteth them that are jus- 
tified by faith. 

1, To walk humbly as being nothing of themselves ; 
to acknowledge themselves enemies to God by nature, 
and acknowledge their sins in the greatness and hein- 
ousness of them, that they are saved freely by the 
righteousness of another, not by their own: yea that 
they are so far fallen, that the justice of God would 
have been against them, if it had not been satisfied ; 
but now they see that Christ hath satisfied, and his 
righteousness is above their sins,* : 

2. To praise and glorify God through Christ for his 
grace. Oh! what abundant grace and love appears in 
God’s washing and cleansing us by his Son’s blood ; 
and in making his Son sin and a curse for us? And 
what a glorious and excellent righteousness hath God 
given us in Christ?> 

3. To walk comfortably, upon the account of this 
righteousness. Triumph over sin and affliction, Be 
confident in expecting great things from God; for, 
though you may be unworthy, and grace will shew 
you your own unworthiness, yet you stand upon the 
righteousness of Christ. Glory in the hope of God’s 
glory ; for, if Christ died to reconcile you when you 
were enemies, much more will he save you by his life, 
now you are reconciled, Ask boldly for what you 
want, for God is in Christ’s manhood as the mercy- 
seat. Whenever sin stings you, and objections trouble 
you, look to the brazen serpent ; confess sin and trust 
for pardon ; meditate on Christ’s righteousness, and 
the abundance of grace in him. If you find never so 
much ungodliness, no good qualifications, yet Christ 
is at hand for your comfort. In all your sins apply 
yourselves to this fountain. If sin lie on the eon- 


' 
* Ezek. xxxvi, 31. + Isa. Ixi, 10. 


—— 


° 


OPENED AND APPLIED. 317 


science, it weakens peace and spiritual strength. Lie 
not under guilt smith a slavish fear: you have a righ- 
teousness to deliver you from it; apply it by faith, 
that you may have no more conscience of sin as con- 
demning. You have a better righteousness than any 
perfectionists can have. 

4. Hold fast this way of justification, notwithstand- 
ing all the noise that is made in the world against it; 
for the devil will strive to scare you out of it, or steal 
it from you ; as he did from the Jews, from the Ga- 
latians, the Papists, and many Protestants. And the 
apostle reckons it is by a spiritual bewitchery. He 
will strive to get you to trust on works, and tell you, 
it is for the promoting of holiness, and to trust on 
works to get Christ, and to lay works lowest in 
the foundation. If you lose this righteousness of 
Christ, under any colour or pretence whatever, you 
lose all.* Do not so dishonour Christ, as to think of 
procuring that by works which you have fully in 
Christ. Think not that the gospel requires another 
justification to gain this: for the gospel is no legal 
covenant, but a declaration of the righteousness of 
faith; and we, being justified, are heirs by adoption 
and promise. This is the doctrine which glorifieth 
God, and abaseth the creature ; whichis a great mark 
of its truth. Beware, therefore, of carnal reason ; 
which will go quite contrary, and make Christ’s 
righteousness a stumbling-stone to thee.t 

5. Walk as one that enjoys the favour of God in 
Christ. Let him have the honour of it. Walk there- 
fore in holiness, knowing by what price you are re- 
deemed. Love God that hath loved you first.[ Be- 
lieve that God will enable you for the practice of 
holiness. ; Particularly, walk in love to the saints ; 
exercise forgiveness to your enemies. Sense of your 
own sins, and God’s forgiving you, will cause you 
to pity and forgive others ; else you cannot pray or 


* Gal. y, 2, 3. t1 Pet. ji, 8. , t 1 John iv, 19, § Rom. vi, 14, 
2D 2 


318 THE DOCTRINE OF JUSTIFICATION, ETC. 


trust for forgiveness of your own sins upon reasonable 
grounds.* Desire grace may be exalted upon others ; 
and wait patiently for the full declaration of justifica- 
tion at the great day;t for here your justification is 
known only by faith; but in outward things you are 
dealt with as a sinner: then your righteousness shall 
appear openly, and you shall be dealt with according 
oi 


* Eph. iv, 31,32. Matt. vi, 14, 15, and xviii, 21. 
+ Gal. v,5. Acts ifi, 19. 


INDEX. 


DIRECTION I. 


Paar. 


THatT we may acceptably perform the duties of holiness and right- 
eousness required in the Jaw, our first work is, to learn the 
powerful and effectual means whereby we may attain to so 


greatanend. - - r - - a s 


DIRECTION II. 

Several endowments and qualifications are necessary to enable us 
for the immediate practice of the law. Particularly we must 
have an inclination and propensity of our hearts thereunto; 
and therefore we must be well persuaded of our reconciliation 
with God, and of our future enjoyment of the everlasting 
heavenly happiness, and of sufficient strength both to will and 
perform all duti¢s acceptably, until we comé to the enjoyment 
of that happiness. - - - - - - 


DIRECTION III. 


The way to get holy endowments Lend qualifications necessary to 
frame and enable us for the immediate practice of the law is, to 
receive them out of the fulness of Christ, by fellowship with 
him; and, that we may have this fellowship, we must be in 
Christ, and have [Christ himself in us, by a mystical union with 
him. - = - - - - - - 


13 


24 


45 


820 INDEX. 


DIRECTION 1V. 
PaGe. 
The means or instruments whereby the Spirlt of God accomplish- 
eth our union with Christ, and our fellowship with him in all 
holiness, are, the gospel, whereby Christ entereth into our 
hearts to work faith in us; and faith, whereby we actually re- 
ceive Christ himself, with all his fulness into our hearts. And 
this faith is a grace of the Spirit, whereby we heartily believe 
the gospel, and also believe on Christ, as he is revealed and 


freely promised to us therein, for all his salvation. = 61 


DIRECTION V. 


We cannot attain to the practice of true holiness by any of our 
endeavours, while we continue in our natural state, and are 
not partakers of a new state by union and fellowship ~with 
Christ through faith. - - - - = vid 


DIRECTION VI. 


Those that endeavour to perform sincere obedience to all the com- 
mands of Christ, as the condition whereby they are to procure 
for themselves a right and title to salvation, and a good ground 
to trust on him for the same, do seek their salvation by the 
works of the law, and not by the faith of Christ, as he is reveal- 
ed in the gospel: and they shall never be able to perform sin- 
cerely any true holy obedience by all such endeayours, - 91 


DIRECTION VII. 


We are not to imagine that our hearts and lives must be changed 
from sin to holiness in any measure, before we may safely ven- 


ture to trust on Christ for the sure enjoyment of himself, 
and his salvation, - - - - - - 119 


INDEX. 321 


DIRBCTION VIII. 


Paar 


Be sure to seek for holiness of heart and life only in its du order, 
where God hath placed it, after union with Christ, justification, 
and the gift of the Holy Ghost; and, in that order, seek it ear- 
nestly by faith, as a very necessary part of your salvation. 


DIRECTION IX. 


We must first receive the comforts of the gospel, that we may be 
able to perform sincerely the duties of the law. - - - 


DIRECTION X. 


That we may be prepared by the comforts of the gospel, to perform 
sincerely the duties of the law, we must get some assurance of 
our salvation, in that very faith whereby Christ himself is re- 
ceived into our hearts: therefore we must endeavour to believe 
on Christ confidently, persuading and assuring ourselves, in the 
act of believing, that God freely giveth to us an interest in 
Christ and his salvation, according to his gracious promise. 


DIRECTION XI. 


Endeavour diligently to perform the great work of believing on 
Christ in a right manner, without any delay, and then also to 
continue and increase in your most holy faith ; that so your en- 
joyment of Christ, union and fellowship with him, and all holl- 
ness by him, may be begun, continued, and increased in you, 

1, 


DIRECTION XII. 


Make diligent use of your most holy faith, for the immediate per- 
formance of the duties of the law, by walking no longer accord- 
ing to your old natural state, or any principles or means of 
practice that belong unto it, but only according to that new 
state which you receive by faith, and the principlos and means 


139 


149 


322 INDEX. 

PaGeE. 
of practice that properly belong thereunto, and strive to con- 
tinue and increase in such manner of practice. Thisis the only 
way to attain to an acceptable performance of those holy and 
righteous duties, as far as it is possible in this present life. 210 


DIRECTION XIII. 


Endeavour diligently to make the right use of all means appointed 
in the word of God, for the obtaining and practising holiness, 
only in this way of believing in Christ, and walking in him 
according to your new state by faith. - - - - 241 


DIRECTION XIV. 


That you may seek holiness and righteousness only by believing 
in Christ, and walking in him by faith, according to the former 
directions: take encouragement from the great advantages of 


this way, and the excellent properties of it. - - - 282 
The Sermon on Justification. - - - - - - 295 
GLASGOW: . 


PRINTED BY D, MACDONALD, 31 ARGYLE STREET- 


A 2 i ewre 
* Like e | 
: feesicat 


. 


PRINTED IN U.S.A. 


Lu 
| 
Q 
Lu 
= 
<x 
a) 


ii ai 


HAH 


