Rating
9

Qualities Applicable Concrete Examples Hot Topic

The Intelligence Trap
Why Smart People Make Dumb Mistakes
David Robson | W.W. Norton ® 2019
A high IQ can be meaningless if you're not thinking soundly, and bright people can misuse their intelligence to reinforce biases. Being smart, it turns out, is not the same as being wise. Author David Robson explains the ways intelligent people form erroneous and even irrational opinions. He links the latest research findings about improving mental flexibility and beating the "traps" of intelligence to interesting stories about how smart people made big mistakes.
Take-Aways
Ę Lewis Terman developed the IQ test to measure general intelligence and predict future success. Ę Just because a person is intelligent doesn't mean he or she thinks rationally. Ę The most overconfident people are often the most ignorant. Ę Philosophers have long discussed wisdom, but now researchers study the elements of
"evidence-based wisdom." Ę While overconfidence in your intuition can end with dysrationalia, it can also be helpful in
decision-making. Ę People rely on familiarity and fluency to evaluate the truth of a statement, but persuaders can
manipulate these feelings easily. Ę General intelligence underpins good thinking, but other traits and habits help it flourish. Ę It's counterintuitive to westerners, but confusion and struggle aid the learning process. Ę Organizations and teams can benefit from the "wisdom of the crowd" or sabotage themselves
with "groupthink." Ę Corporate cultures can reinforce "functional stupidity" or encourage "collective mindfulness."

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-20 17:43:21 CET

www.getabstract.com

Summary
Lewis Terman developed the IQ test to measure general intelligence and predict future success.
The success of those with high IQs later in life seemed to prove Lewis Terman was correct about general intelligence: No matter their path in life, those with higher intelligence seemed to do well. But too often they just encountered better treatment and received better opportunities. Most people assume that high intelligence also means high common sense and better judgment. Terman's test evaluates verbal, mathematical and abstract reasoning skills. It's the basis for standardized tests like the SAT and GRE, which universities use routinely to measure academic achievement. While useful, they don't comprehensively measure a person's "total intellectual potential."
"For any career, there are plenty of people of lower IQ who outperform those with much higher scores, and people with greater intelligence who don't make the most of their brainpower."
Robert Sternberg developed the Triarchic Theory of Successful Intelligence which measures three aptitudes: "creative, practical" and "analytical" intelligence. Creative intelligence measures a person's ability to imagine and invent. Practical intelligence involves planning and executing an idea, and it incorporates experience in problem solving. Sternberg warns that emphasizing academic competencies and analytical intelligence can lead to developing professionals who lack common sense.
Just because a person is intelligent, doesn't mean he or she thinks rationally.
People fall prey to several kinds of intellectual biases, or "dysrationalia." Perhaps you have a $100 budget for a TV, but as you shop, you see a $300 model knocked down to $200. Even though it's more than your budget, your thinking is "anchored" by the original price, so you think the $200 tag is reasonable. "Framing" bias describes the power of how someone presents information to you. If a medical treatment will save one in three people, you're more likely to be enthusiastic about the "gain framing" of people saved than the "loss framing" of those who will die, even though it's the same ratio. The "sunk cost fallacy" keeps people investing in something just because of all the time or money they already invested. Arthur Conan Doyle, inventor of the super-rational sleuth Sherlock Holmes, had an intellectual weakness when it came to supernatural beliefs. He believed mediums could conjure and communicate with the departed. When Doyle saw a photograph with fairies in it, he deduced through very logical-sounding arguments that they were real. He used his intelligence to justify his irrational pre-existing beliefs. Scientists refer to this as "confirmation bias" or "myside bias." It's the tendency to select data that support your argument while ignoring challenging data. "Motivated reasoning" leads people to dismiss

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-20 17:43:21 CET

www.getabstract.com 2 of 7

alternative arguments without much consideration, an attitude which further entrenches their bias.
The most overconfident people are often the most ignorant.
Researchers David Dunning and Justin Kruger found out that people become complacent in their areas of expertise and believe they're always as knowledgeable as when they first graduated, though their fields may have changed or advanced. This "illusion of expertise" leads to closemindedness. Rather than puzzle over each move in a chess game, master players utilize a vast library of potential moves to chunk together "complexes" made of multiple pieces, thus forming larger scripts they can tap into based on their position on the board. Over time, much of it becomes automatic, which is how chessmasters can play so quickly Ł and can also play drunk. All kinds of experts rely on a library of scripts they implement almost without conscious thought. People have high regard for "expert's intuition," but it has some flaws. While experts are great at chunking information and recognizing patterns, they can get entrenched doing things the way they've always done them, fail to incorporate change and lose sight of smaller details. They're more easily swayed by emotion and biases and can develop biased blind spots. A way to avoid that is to systematically consider every component of a problem. After forensic experts misidentified fingerprint evidence in a high-profile case, the FBI implemented a systematic process to limit "circular reasoning" that might tempt investigators to fit the evidence to the crime.
Philosophers have long discussed wisdom, but now researchers study the elements of "evidence-based wisdom."
Psychologist Igor Grossman applies scientific rigor to analyzing what made men like Benjamin Franklin so wise. He works to implement practical techniques to avoid "intelligence traps." Some of these include finding different perspectives on a problem, imagining alternative scenarios, recognizing when change is happening, looking for a workable compromise and predicting resolutions to conflict. If you practice "open-minded thinking," then you're willing to reevaluate your belief if presented with new evidence or to wait until you've heard different perspectives before you make a decision.
"Qualities such as your intellectual humility and capacity to understand other people's points of view may predict your well-being better than your actual intelligence."
Benjamin Franklin developed a "moral algebra" method where he divided a paper into two columns and wrote out pros and cons, assigning a value to signify each point's importance. He eliminated pros and cons where values were equal and this Ł plus taking time to consider the issue Ł helped him find the balance he sought in any given situation. Another useful technique is to imagine that someone else, maybe a colleague, will evaluate your thinking.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-20 17:43:21 CET

www.getabstract.com 3 of 7

"Deliberately taking time to `consider the opposite' viewpoint can reduce a range of reasoning errors, such as anchoring, and overconfidence, and, of course, the myside bias."
Smart people can become entrenched in their own opinions and unwilling to compromise. Avoid this "intelligence trap" by imagining that you're viewing yourself from a distance, as if you're in a movie. The Japanese language lacks a personal pronoun, so it naturally enables "self-distancing." Culturally, the Japanese value "intellectual humility."
While overconfidence in your intuition can end with dysrationalia, it can also be helpful in decision-making.
The trick is to neither overlook nor wholly accept your intuitions, but to use them to investigate and inform your decisions. Those who are more sensitive to the way their body feels Ł that is, they have greater "interoception" Ł are quicker to pick up the cues that feed intuition. Accurate interoception improves your social skills as your body mirrors other people's emotional signals. Improperly analyzed intuitions can be a trap. You might interpret "background feelings" as relevant to a situation or decision you're facing when they're not. "Mindfulness" meditation improves your awareness and your ability to regulate your emotions because it trains you to be more tuned into the way your body feels. Just taking a few minutes during the day to reflect on your feelings and differentiate them for yourself will improve your cognitive performance over the long term. Reflective thinking can help you combat the "curse of expertise."
People rely on familiarity and fluency to evaluate the truth of a statement, but persuaders can manipulate these feelings easily.
Comedian Stephen Colbert invented the word "truthiness" to describe then-President George W. Bush's apparently intuition-based decision-making style. Researchers Norbert Schwarz and Eryn Newman say that a feeling of familiarity, the sense that you've heard a similar statement before, and fluency, how easy it is to process the information, contribute to truthiness. A rhyming statement can seem more true just because it's easier to process. Statements presented with a picture are more persuasive. Repetition is a powerful way to boost truthiness, as propagandists know well. Debunking misinformation often unintentionally increases its "truthiness." The UK's National Health Service vaccination webpage visually highlights myths more than it showcases correct information, so that's what people remember. Thus, focusing on a few facts is better than debunking a list of myths. Familiarity with the "warning signs" of misinformation helps activate "flags" in your thinking so you are more cautious and analytical about how you process that information.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-20 17:43:21 CET

www.getabstract.com 4 of 7

General intelligence underpins good thinking, but other traits and habits help it flourish.
Most children start out curious and creative, but Ł taking cues from their parents and teachers Ł they soon stop asking questions and exploring their world. Rote learning and anxiety also inhibit the desire to learn. Psychologist Carol Dweck outlined "fixed" versus "growth" mind-sets in her book Mindset, which offers insights that can bolster your understanding of the intelligence trap. She realized that, no matter their IQ, students who believed they could learn and improve their performance did better than those who believed talent was an innate and fixed commodity, and "if they failed now, they would fail forever." Dweck found that individuals who have a growth mindset are less concerned about their status compared to their colleagues and do not equate their expertise with their "personal value." Teach children that failure is a natural result of effort and not a reflection on your identity. Learning is not necessarily going to be easy. Curiosity reduces the polarizing effects of the "myside bias." Improve your curiosity by writing down all the things you know about an area of study you're interested in, then come up with some questions you'd like answered. Recognize that you have the ability to grow and learn new things to reinforce your intellectual humility.
It's counterintuitive to westerners, but confusion and struggle aid the learning process.
The Japanese don't teach by rote. They rely on open-minded thinking and intellectual humility which helps to protect them from intellectual biases. They don't fear struggle in the learning process. Shorter learning sessions feel frustrating, but studies show people learn more quickly and more accurately that way than in longer intense blocks. Switching up tasks, like spacing out your study sessions, also enhances learning, although learners typically feel confused and overwhelmed. Set up "desirable difficulties" by "pre-testing" your knowledge; productive failures, where you try to solve problems you don't know how to solve, prime you to learn better. Japanese students explore their mistakes to see where they may have gone wrong. In the west, study is often broken down into simple "fluent" chunks of information that discourage deeper thought and obstruct creating more nuanced connections. This approach leads to rigid thinking.
"There is a huge amount of variation within any culture. But these results all suggest that the intelligence trap is partly a cultural phenomenon born in our schools."
One of the best ways to learn a subject is to teach it to another person. Be wary if you feel like you know everything there is to know about a subject; that's when bias is most likely to kick in. Give up your fear of being wrong and stay open to developing better answers despite the struggle that might take.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-20 17:43:21 CET

www.getabstract.com 5 of 7

Organizations and teams can benefit from the "wisdom of the crowd" or sabotage themselves with "groupthink."
Ideally teams capitalize on members' talents that complement each other's work. But with "groupthink," a team is overly concerned with reaching consensus, and members worry about challenging each other's judgments. Researcher Anita Williams Woolley has developed a "collective intelligence test" to evaluate how teams work together, testing various capacities such as brainstorming, evaluation, critical analysis, negotiation and ability to execute on plans. IQ had little to do with why teams are successful. One predictor of a team's success is the "social sensitivity" of its members. Power and status dynamics can disrupt groups. When groups of leaders work together, researchers found they often disagree and are reluctant to share information. Each leader thinks his or her decisions are the best. Groups without a clear pecking order produce the most conflict.
"If the team, as a whole, agreed on their relative positions, they were more productive, since they avoided constant jockeying for authority."
Reduce status conflict by allowing each person to talk for a short time at the beginning of meetings. Introduce team members by noting their expertise relative to the problem you're discussing. Lay out how you plan to come to a decision: after consideration of various opinions or by majority or unanimous consensus. Remember effective leaders model the qualities they expect to see in the room. Intellectual humility greatly improves the success of groups. Encouraging feedback from team members makes them feel invested in the company, optimizes decisionmaking, and leads to the greatest variety of ideas and perspectives.
Corporate cultures can reinforce "functional stupidity" or encourage "collective mindfulness."
"Functional stupidity" thrives in the workplace because workers aren't encouraged to think. Often it's easier to "go with the flow," and fit in with expectations. This "strategic ignorance" is wellstudied and leaves people with "moral wiggle room" so they can act selfishly without guilt. Shortrun thinking has some organizational benefits since it can increase productivity.
Over-specialization of responsibility reinforces "functional stupidity." But "relentless optimism" about everything the company does Ł discouraging dissent as disloyalty, not acknowledging disappointment Ł may be the biggest contributor to organizational as well as individual functional stupidity.
"Groups under threat tend to become more conformist, single-minded and inward looking. More and more members begin to adopt the same views, and they start to favor simple messages over complex, nuanced ideas."

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-20 17:43:21 CET

www.getabstract.com 6 of 7

Smart people don't automatically lead to smart organizations. The environment must support them. NASA had a problem with foam insulation breaking off of its Space Shuttles prior to the 2003 Columbia disaster, but because the issue had not previously caused life-threatening problems, no one worked to fix it. Near misses increase your tolerance of risk, but that's dangerous and can be disastrous. Post-disaster, NASA changed its procedures to emphasize safety above everything. Reporting of safety concerns increased five-fold. Organizational "mindfulness" encourages vigilance, openness to new ideas, and a willingness to question possibilities and learn from mistakes.
About the Author
Journalist David Robson's work has appeared in BBC Future, New Scientist, The Atlantic and other publications.
Did you like this summary? Buy book or audiobook http://getab.li/37837
This document is restricted to the personal use of Jason Davis (jason.s.davis@accenture.com) getAbstract maintains complete editorial responsibility for all parts of this review. All rights reserved. No part of this review may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means Ł electronic, photocopying or otherwise Ł without prior written permission of getAbstract AG (Switzerland).
7 of 7
BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-20 17:43:21 CET

