Rating
9

Qualities Applicable Well Structured Concrete Examples

Leadership Is Language
The Hidden Power of What You Say Ł and What You Don't
L. David Marquet | ® 2020 From LEADERSHIP IS LANGUAGE by L. David Marquet Summarized by arrangement with Portfolio, an imprint of Penguin Publishing Group, a division of Penguin Random House LLC.
In his follow-up to Turn the Ship Around, L. David Marquet systemizes the lessons he learned as captain of the USS Santa Fe. Focusing on the language of leadership, he says leaders must discard the Industrial Age "playbook" that splits people between "blueworkers" who decide and "redworkers" who obey. Today's fast, complex world demands a "red-blue operating system" in which intense periods of focused, goal-oriented "redwork" alternate with periods of "bluework" for rest, reflection, celebration and improvement.
Take-Aways
Ę The Industrial Age "playbook" that divides workforces is obsolete. Ę Balance thinking and doing. Thinking increases variability, while taking action reduces it. Ę Don't obey the clock. Instead of yielding to time pressure, take pauses to reflect, ask if you're
doing things correctly and make adjustments. Ę Collaboration breaks down barriers and allows for dissent. Ę Instead of demanding compliance, ask for commitment. Ę Never-ending processes make people complacent and disengaged. Instead, set goals within the
process so you can identify and acknowledge achievement. Ę Someone with an "improve" mind-set needs self-determination to stay motivated. Ę When people feel connected, they will take more risks, knowing they are in an atmosphere of
trust. Ę Combining strict goals with steep hierarchies shuts down dissent and opens the risk of
unethical behavior.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-19 06:36:02 CET

www.getabstract.com

Summary
The Industrial Age "playbook" that divides workforces is obsolete.
In 2015, in one of the most preventable disasters in modern seafaring history, the El Faro commercial vessel sailed directly into Hurricane Joaquin. Salvaged voice recordings from its bridge reveal that the captain decided to make the Jacksonville-to-San Juan run along the most expedient route, not the safest. He made no allowances for the weather. The ship's rigid organizational structure meant no one challenged his authority and everyone aboard perished.
"Doing and thinking are the basic building blocks of all human activity. The correct balance of these two activities helps us achieve our goals."
The captain and crew used an outdated "playbook" from the Industrial Age, when the workforce was divided into "deciders" and the "doers," those in charge over those who obey.
Balance thinking and doing. Thinking increases variability, while taking action reduces it.
Achieving variability and dealing with it is hard work. Staying focused on doing a job requires dealing with fewer variables, but at the risk of being shortsighted, which can bring disastrous consequences. Thinking and doing are two different, complementary mental processes. Finding the balance between them Ł an effort which must engage everyone involved Ł drives learning.
Work that rests on thinking and embracing variability is "bluework." Task-oriented work that reduces variability is "redwork." The old playbook emphasizes redwork. It enforces using binary, yes-or-no language, instead of discussing a spectrum of options. A playbook with both redwork and bluework provides opportunities for back and forth conversations. To arrive at better decisions, include more people on an equal footing in your discussions.
"It takes a rigorous and systematic approach to resist the natural human tendency to reduce uncertainty as quickly as possible."
In the Industrial Age, blueworkers did the thinking and redworkers did the doing. Redworkers earned their pay by carrying out repetitive tasks in a set amount of time. Their goal was efficiency, which meant fewer variables. This fragile, rigid structure is beset with problems. It offers no incentive for people to make more effort, because that means more work. The work is dull and not engaging. Lacking engagement, redworkers make mistakes. They execute blueworkers' decisions, although, for too long, they had no say in those decisions despite knowing that their work and input had value.
Japan challenged the separation of red and blue workers with its "Total Quality Leadership" (TQL) method, later known as the Toyota Production System. This strategy rejects

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-19 06:36:02 CET

www.getabstract.com 2 of 7

the idea that efficiency requires compromising on quality. The Japanese fostered collaboration between redworkers and blueworkers, and the result was a significant innovation: smaller, more fuel-efficient cars that set a new industry standard by the 1980s.
Sadly, the use of TQL remains the exception. Workforces still experience hierarchybased divisions, even though everyone agrees on the need for change. Leaders must discard the redworker-blueworker binary construct. Today, everyone is both a redworker and a blueworker, cycling together through doing (redwork) and thinking (bluework).
Don't obey the clock. Instead of yielding to time pressure, take pauses to reflect, ask if you're doing things correctly and make adjustments.
The captain of the El Faro felt time pressure to make a dangerous choice. He did not pause, reflect, solicit input or change course. Redwork is "brittle." If something goes wrong, it can't adapt. If a team remains mired in unproductive redwork with no options, stress levels rise and mistakes happen. To counteract this, plan operational pauses in redwork. Give the pause a name, such as "time out" or "hands off." At Toyota, workers on the floor can pull the "Andon cord" when they experience a problem. The supervisor responds immediately. Together, the supervisor and the workers assess the problem and try to fix it Ł or halt the line to investigate further.
"One reason it's hard to call a pause is because it's most likely called to identify a problem Ł and some people don't like to hear about problems."
Changing a corporate culture and removing the stigma from requesting a pause takes time. People doing redwork tend to have a "prove or protect" mind-set. That helps them maintain focus, but it may reduce their sense of perspective.
Collaboration breaks down barriers and allows for dissent.
When leaders fail to allow dissent, they take decision-making power away from their teams. Breaking down the barrier between redworkers and blueworkers requires collaboration. This involves four steps:
1. Have a vote, then discuss Ł Depending on your firm's level of trust, this can be a secret ballot or a show of hands. Instead of asking questions with yes or no answers, ask members to vote along a scale.
2. Don't compel. Be curious Ł Invite outliers to speak Ł and to speak last. Avoid leading, aggressive or self-affirming questions. Ask "how" instead of "why."
3. Don't push consensus. Invite dissent Ł Dissent drives innovation. Outliers may remain quiet out of fear in the face of a consensus. Make it safe and easy for them to talk. Make dissent random by handing out cards. Whoever gets the black card must dissent.
4. Instead of instructions, give information Ł People feel coerced when you tell them, "Park there" or "Be back by 10 a.m." Say instead: "I see a parking spot there" or "I will start at 10 a.m."

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-19 06:36:02 CET

www.getabstract.com 3 of 7

Collaboration leads to fair assessments and to testing possible actions and solutions.
Instead of demanding compliance, ask for commitment.
Collaboration opens the door to commitment. Compliance means your team members aren't thinking, only obeying Ł and worse, they aren't taking responsibility for their results. But when you make achieving a milestone the goal Ł as opposed to simply obeying instructions Ł people use their discretion. They think. Their motivation is intrinsic, instead of extrinsic. To move from compliance to commitment, you must:
1. "Commit to learn, not simply do" Ł This makes it possible to accept unexpected information that might not support the group's hypothesis.
2. "Commit to actions, not just beliefs" Ł You won't know if something works until you test it. This will help you get out of bluework deliberating and move into redwork executing.
3. "Chunk it small, but do it all" Ł You don't have to solve all potential problems before testing your hypothesis, but you do need a coherent picture.
When the El Faro sailed, the captain thought only of the destination, not the journey. He didn't break the voyage down into small increments. The bluework-redwork-bluework cycle can move fast in rapidly changing conditions, but with less production in the redwork periods. It halts the "escalation of commitment": sticking to a course of action even when it's no longer viable.
"Individuals make commitments. Groups do not. Commitment is personal; it comes from within."
When the El Faro's captain made himself the sole decision maker, he left himself no choice, even given compelling new evidence, to admit he was wrong. Having a more resilient structure with more input might have prevented a disaster.
Never-ending processes make people complacent and disengaged. Instead, set goals within the process so you can identify and acknowledge achievement.
Henry Ford's assembly-line production innovation changed industry, but at a price. It focused on production instead of deliberation. Ford saw any halt in production as a waste of time and resources. For years, his company produced millions of identical cars, with no pauses to evaluate or introduce change. Meanwhile, other manufacturers innovated, and GM eventually pulled ahead in the 1920s. When the norm calls for just continuing a process with no completion, the project can't handle any changes in its situation. If you fail to set periodic milestones, your workers will feel less committed because they can never achieve the rewarding feeling of accomplishment. They have no opportunity to evaluate why they've succeeded or where they need to improve.
"To celebrate with, not for; appreciate, don't evaluate; observe, don't judge; and prize, don't praise."

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-19 06:36:02 CET

www.getabstract.com 4 of 7

In the beginning of a project, the bluework-redwork-bluework cycles are shorter because your team may try more than one option, and that requires agility. In bluework, you learn and grow. In redwork, you perform and prove. Once you commit, the redwork stage gets longer, but the bluework stages still pursue a bigger goal. As you cycle from blue to red to blue, celebrate achievements along the way so your workers see that you value them. Behavioral psychology teaches that immediate, positive and guaranteed rewards motivate better performance. Have people "tell the story" of their achievement to gain insight into their behavior. Completion lets everyone move on feeling psychologically cleansed and ready to improve.
Someone with an "improve" mind-set needs self-determination to stay motivated.
Having a mind-set that seeks improvement invites curiosity and problem solving. Stop the clock to relieve deadline pressure and permit people to pursue inclusive, divergent and self-challenging thinking. In the Industrial Age, redworkers could not evaluate themselves. They responded to blueworkers' demands for improvement. If your organization discards the redworkerblueworker barrier, people can let go of the idea that they must prove themselves.
People hold on to their "be good" self who wants to feel like a "good worker." They are less comfortable with the "get better" self who risks error on the road to improving. If everyone embraces the "get better" point of view, people will be less to recriminate and blame others. In a trusting environment, people aren't afraid to be vulnerable, ask questions and correct errors. Trust first, and assume that other people's intentions are good.
"There is a strong link between believing we can grow and having control over our behaviors."
People need self-determination, which has three components: competence, relatedness and autonomy. To reduce complacency and conflict, workers need mastery over their work, a connection to their colleagues and control of their environment. To bring people together to improve:
1. Focus "forward, not backward" Ł Use past errors to build future resilience. 2. Look "outward, not inward" Ł Look to the needs of other stakeholders (such as customers)
to take the spotlight off yourself. 3. Heed "the process, not the person" Ł It isn't one person's fault if things go wrong. It is
usually a process problem. 4. Target "achieving excellence, not avoiding errors" Ł People will revert to passive
behavior if they don't feel safe making mistakes on the way to finding solutions.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-19 06:36:02 CET

www.getabstract.com 5 of 7

When people feel connected, they will take more risks, knowing they are in an atmosphere of trust.
When the Deepwater Horizon oil derrick was in trouble, subordinate crew members waited for orders to activate the blowout preventer. By the time the chief engineer gave the order, the rig was on fire. The operator was more afraid of disobeying orders than of dying in a fiery explosion. The lesson: Never underestimate the power of hierarchy.
"No one ever started a journey of learning and discovery with, `I know all this already'."
A power gradient is the separation and angle of social distance between two people. The steeper it is, the less likely you are to hear your teams' complaints or concerns. A flatter power gradient eases communication, but a completely flat is confusing. You need decision makers. Connect with your teams by reducing separation and doing things with them. Reduce your authority. Observe and describe what you see. Those with the most authority have the power to flatten the power gradient.
Combining strict goals with steep hierarchies shuts down dissent and opens the risk of unethical behavior.
In the early 1970s, Ford released the Pinto, which the company designed to compete with smaller Japanese cars. Ford cut corners to reduce costs. It put the fuel tank behind the rear axle, where it risked rupture in a rear-end accident. Ford calculated that it would cost less to pay for litigation in the event of deaths Ł estimated at a likely 180 per year Ł than to improve the Pinto's safety. Such unethical behavior can thrive when the process does not include a mechanism for calling a pause, getting a sense of perspective and correcting course.
"Collaboration happens through the questions we ask and requires that we admit we don't have the whole picture."
Organizations that adopt the redwork-bluework cycle are more accountable. Workers don't hide mistakes out of fear or exploit systemic weaknesses. People needn't choose between risking customers' lives Ł or their own Ł and disobeying their superiors. Unfortunately, the Industrial Age playbook still dominates. Change must occur to bring business processes in line with the new reality of the world of work.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-19 06:36:02 CET

www.getabstract.com 6 of 7

About the Author
L. David Marquet commanded the nuclear-powered, fast-attack submarine USS Santa Fe from 1999 to 2001. His book Turn the Ship Around: A True Story of Turning Leaders Into Followers is a bestseller.
Did you like this summary? Buy book or audiobook http://getab.li/37522
This document is restricted to the personal use of Jason Davis (jason.s.davis@accenture.com) getAbstract maintains complete editorial responsibility for all parts of this review. All rights reserved. No part of this review may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means Ł electronic, photocopying or otherwise Ł without prior written permission of getAbstract AG (Switzerland).
7 of 7
BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-19 06:36:02 CET

