Concentrated KnowledgeTM for the Busy Executive Ę www.summary.com

Vol. 29, No. 6 (2 parts), Part 1, June 2007 Ę Order # 29-14

FILE: PERSONAL

«

By Marshall Goldsmith with Mark Reiter
CONTENTS
You Are Here
Page 2
The Success Delusion, or Why We Resist Change
Pages 2, 3
The 20 Habits
Pages 3, 4, 5, 6
The 21st Habit: Goal Obsession
Page 6
Feedback
Page 7
Telling the World, or Advertising
Page 7
Listening
Pages 7, 8
Following Up
Page 8
Changing: The Rules
Page 8
You Are Here Now
Page 8

How Successful People Become Even More Successful
WHAT GOT YOU HERE WON'T GET YOU THERE
THE SUMMARY IN BRIEF
In this book, Marshall Goldsmith begins by examining the trouble with success, explaining how previous accomplishments often prevent leaders from gaining more success. He analyzes why high achievers are so resistant to change due to their delusion of success, pointing out that they can't see that what got them here won't get them there.
These are people who do one annoying thing repeatedly on the job and don't realize that this small flaw may sabotage their otherwise golden career. Worse yet, they do not realize that it's happening and that they can fix it. Goldsmith details the 20 habits that hold you back from the top rung of the corporate ladder. In his experience, these are the most irritating interpersonal issues in the workplace. For each habit, he gives examples and practical solutions you can implement. He then describes the 21st habit, which stands separate from the other 20 habits ŁŁ not because it is a flaw, but because it is often the root of an annoying behavior.
Finally, Goldsmith addresses the problem of how you can change your interpersonal relationships for the better, and ensure that you make your behavioral changes permanent.
This summary reveals how you can identify which of these 20 habits apply to you, and how to choose the one or two you should focus on.
In addition, you will learn:  The four key beliefs that make you successful but also resistant to
change.  Why the higher you go, the more your problems are behavioral.  Why the 21st habit, goal obsession, may be the most destructive of
all.  How to get good 360-degree feedback from your colleagues on your
own.  How to overcome special challenges if you're the one in charge at
the workplace.
Published by Soundview Executive Book Summaries, P.O. Box 1053, Concordville, PA 19331 USA ® 2007 Soundview Executive Book Summaries Ę All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or part is prohibited.

WHAT GOT YOU HERE WON'T GET YOU THERE
by Marshall Goldsmith with Mark Reiter
-- THE COMPLETE SUMMARY

PART I Ł THE TROUBLE WITH SUCCESS
You Are Here
You know those maps in shopping malls that say, "You Are Here"? They exist to orient you in unfamiliar territory, to tell you where you are, where you want to go and how to get there. A few people never need these maps. They're blessed with an internal compass that orients them automatically.
Some people go through life with this unerring sense of direction ŁŁ it guides them through their school years, careers, marriages and friendships. When we meet people like this, we say they're grounded. They know who they are and where they're going.
In the arc of what can be a long and successful career, you will always be in transit from "here" to "there." Here can be a great place. If you're successful, here is exactly the kind of place you want to be. But here is also a place where you can be a success in spite of some gaps in your behavior or personal makeup.
That's why you want to go "there." There can be a better place, where you can be a CEO who is viewed as a great leader because he doesn't get in the way of his people. You are here. You can get there. But you have to understand that what got you here won't get you there. I
The Success Delusion, or Why We Resist Change
In the workplace, many of us overestimate our contribution to a project, have an elevated opinion of our professional skills and standing among our peers, and take credit ŁŁ partial or complete ŁŁ for successes that truly belong to others.
We also conveniently ignore the costly failures and time-consuming dead ends we have created, while exaggerating our projects' impact on net profits because we discount the real and hidden costs built into them (costs are someone else's problems; success is ours).
All of these delusions are the result of success, not failure. That's because we get positive reinforcement from our past

successes and think that type of validation is predictive of great things in our future. But our delusions become a serious liability when we need to change and someone tries to make us change.
First, we tend to think the other party is confused. Second, we go into denial. The criticism does not apply to us, or we wouldn't be so successful. When all else fails, we discredit the messenger: "Why is a smart guy like me listening to a loser like you?"
Couple these with the positive interpretations successful people assign to their past performance ŁŁ their ability to influence their success, their belief that their success will continue in the future and their sense of control over their own destiny ŁŁ and you have a volatile cocktail of resistance to change.
The Four Key Beliefs of Successful People
There are four key beliefs that help you become successful. However, each can make it rough for you to change.
1. I Have Succeeded. To successful people, the past is always the prologue -- and always rose-colored. This belief only becomes an obstacle when behavioral change is needed.
(continued on page 3)
The authors: Dr. Marshall Goldsmith is a renowned expert in helping business leaders achieve measurable change in themselves, their people and their teams. In addition to founding Marshall Goldsmith Partners LLC, he serves as University Professor at Alliant University's Marshall Goldsmith School of Management, named in his honor in 2006.
Mark Reiter, a literary agent based in Bronxville, N.Y., has collaborated on 13 previous books.
From the book What Got You Here Won't Get You There by Marshall Goldsmith with Mark Reiter. Copyright ® 2007 Marshall Goldsmith. Summarized by permission of the publisher, Hyperion. Available wherever books are sold. 236 pages. $23.95. ISBN 1-4013-0130-4.
Summary copyright ® 2007 by Soundview Executive Book Summaries, www.summary.com, 1-800-SUMMARY, 1-610-558-9495.
For additional information on the authors, go to: http://my.summary.com

Published by Soundview Executive Book Summaries (ISSN 0747-2196), P.O. Box 1053, Concordville, PA 19331 USA, a division of Concentrated Knowledge Corp. Published monthly. Subscriptions: $209 per year in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and $295 to all other countries. Periodicals postage paid at Concordville, Pa., and additional offices.
Postmaster: Send address changes to Soundview, P.O. Box 1053, Concordville, PA 19331. Copyright ® 2007 by Soundview Executive Book Summaries.
Available formats: Summaries are available in print, audio and electronic formats. To subscribe, call us at 1-800-SUMMARY (610-558-9495 outside the United States and Canada), or order on the Internet at www.summary.com. Multiple-subscription discounts and corporate site licenses are also available.

2

Soundview Executive Book Summaries«

Soundview
Executive Book Summaries«
NAN BAUROTH Ł Contributing Editor ATHENA NICOLAIDES Ł Graphic Designer
MELISSA WARD Ł Managing Editor REBECCA S. CLEMENT Ł Publisher

What Got You Here Won't Get You There -- SUMMARY

The Success Delusion, or Why We Resist Change

ious than it needs to be. They are transactional flaws performed by one person against another.

(continued from page 2)

These faults are simple to correct For example, the cure

2. I Can Succeed. Successful people believe they have the capability within themselves to make desirable things happen -- through sheer force of personality, talent or brainpower, they can steer a situation in their direction.
3. I Will Succeed. Successful people have unflappable

for not thanking others enough is remembering to say "Thank you." For punishing the messenger, it's imagining how we'd like to be treated under similar circumstances. Check yourself against the list, then whittle it down to one or two vital issues, and you'll know where to start.

optimism. But it can easily mutate into excessive optimism. Habit No. 1: Winning Too Much

It explains why successful people tend to be extremely busy and face the danger of overcommitment. When the "donothings" are asked, "Why didn't you implement the behavioral change you said you would?" the most common response is, "I meant to, but I just didn't have time."
4. I Choose to Succeed. Successful people believe they are doing what they choose to do, because they choose to do it. Unfortunately, the more you believe your behavior is a result of your own choices and commitments, the less likely you are to want to change your behavior.

This is the most common behavioral problem in successful people. There's a fine line between being competitive and overcompetitive, between winning when it counts and when no one's counting -- and successful people cross that line with alarming frequency.
Winning too much is the No. 1 challenge because it underlies nearly every other behavioral problem. If we argue too much, it's because we want our view to prevail. If we put down other people, it's our stealthy way of positioning them beneath us. If we ignore people,

We All Obey Natural Law

again it's about winning -- by making them fade away.

The main natural law that has been witnessed while observing successful people's efforts to become more

If you've achieved any modicum of success, you're guilty of this every day.

successful is: People will do something -- including

Habit No. 2: Adding Too Much Value

changing their behavior -- only if it can be demonstrated that doing so is in their own best interests as defined by their own values. This is natural law. Every choice, big or small, is a risk-reward decision where your bottom-line thinking is, "What's in it for me?"
Most people's resistance to change can be overcome by invoking natural law. Everyone, even the biggest ego in the room, has a hot button that can be pushed -- and that button is self-interest. It usually boils down to four items that are the standard payoff for success: money, power, status and popularity. I

It is extremely difficult for successful people to listen to other people tell them something they already know without communicating somehow that "We already knew that" and "We know a better way."
The higher up you go, the more you need to make other people winners and not make it about winning yourself. This means closely monitoring how you hand out encouragement. If you find yourself saying, "Great idea," then dropping the other shoe with a "but" or "however," try cutting your response off at "idea." Even better, take a breath before you speak and ask yourself

PART II Ł THE 20 HABITS THAT HOLD YOU BACK FROM THE TOP

if what you're about to say is worth it.
Habit No. 3: Passing Judgment
There's nothing wrong with offering an opinion in the

normal give-and-take of business discussions. But it's

The 20 Habits
When was the last retreat or training session at your organization titled, "Stupid Things Our Top People Do that We Need to Stop Doing Now"? Can you imagine your CEO (or immediate supervisor) admitting a personal failing in public and outlining his or her efforts to stop doing it? Probably not. Instead of your usual "To Do" list, start your "To Stop" list.
What's Wrong with Us?

not appropriate to pass judgment when we specifically ask people to voice their opinions about us.
Try this: For one week treat every idea that comes your way from another person with complete neutrality. Don't take sides. Don't express an opinion. If you find yourself incapable of just saying "Thank you," make it an innocuous "Thanks, I hadn't considered that" or "Thanks, you've given me something to think about." You will significantly reduce the number of pointless arguments at work or home. If you continue this for

The most common faults are a very specific breed of

several weeks, at least three good things will happen:

flaws. What we're dealing with are challenges in interpersonal behavior, often leadership behavior. They are the

1. This sort of neutral response will become automatic.

everyday annoyances that make your workplace more nox-

(continued on page 4)

Soundview Executive Book Summaries«

3

What Got You Here Won't Get You There -- SUMMARY

The 20 Habits
(continued from page 3)

2. Conclude that it isn't. 3. Say "Thank you."

2. You will dramatically reduce the hours you devote to contentious interfacing. When you don't judge an idea, no one can argue with you.
3. People will gradually begin to see you as a much more agreeable person, even when you are not agreeing with them. Do this consistently and people will eventually brand you as a welcoming person, someone whose door they can knock on when they have an idea.
Habit No. 4: Making Destructive Comments
These are the cutting sarcastic remarks that run the gamut from a thoughtless jab in a meeting to comments about how someone looks -- "Nice tie" (with a smirk) ŁŁ to elaborately planned critiques of people's past performances that everyone but you have forgotten ("Do you remember the time you ...").
Before speaking, ask yourself: 1. Will this comment help our customers? 2. Will this comment help our company? 3. Will this comment help the person I'm talking to? 4. Will this comment help the person I'm talking about?
Habit No. 5: Starting with `No,' `But' or `However'
When you start a sentence with any of these words or a variation thereof, no matter how friendly your tone or how many mollifying phrases you throw in to acknowledge the other person's feelings, the message to the other person is: You are wrong.
Stop trying to defend your position and start monitoring how many times you begin remarks with those three words. Pay special attention to moments when you use these words in a sentence whose ostensible purpose is to agree with what the other person is saying, for example, "That's true, however, ..." (meaning: You don't think it's true) or the very common opener, "Yes, but ... " (meaning: Prepare to be contradicted).
Habit No. 6: Telling the World How Smart We Are
This is another variation on our need to win. We need to be the smartest person in the room, but it usually backfires. We do it when we agree with someone offering us practical advice, whenever we nod our heads impatiently while people are talking, when we drum our fingers on the table. We do it more overtly when we tell someone, "I already knew that" or alternative phrasings such as, "I didn't need to hear that," or "I'm five steps ahead of you." We're insulting the other person.
Stopping this behavior is not hard. Try this three-step drill:
1. Pause before you open your mouth to ask yourself, "Is anything I say worth it?"

Habit No. 7: Speaking When Angry
When you get angry, you are usually out of control. It's hard to lead people this way. The worst thing about anger is how it stifles our ability to change. Once you get a reputation for emotional volatility, you are branded for life. Pretty soon that is all people know about you. To lose your reputation as a person who gets angry, just follow one simple piece of advice: If you keep your mouth shut, no one can ever know how you really feel.
Habit No. 8: Negativity, or `Let Me Explain Why that Won't Work'
We all know negative people in the workplace. They're incapable of saying something positive or complimentary to any of your suggestions. You could walk into the office with a cure for cancer and the first words out of their mouths would be, "Let me explain why that won't work."
That is the telltale phrase of negativity. It's a major annoyance because it's emblematic of our need to share our negative thoughts even when they haven't been solicited. It is pure, unadulterated negativity under the guise of being helpful.
If you catch yourself saying this frequently, you know what needs fixing. Seeing how people relate to you provides proof that your flaw is serious, it matters to people and it's a problem.
Habit No. 9: Withholding Information
In the age of knowledge workers, information is power. Intentionally withholding information is the opposite of adding value. Yet it has the same purpose -- to gain power. Reflect how you feel about these events:
G A meeting you weren't told about. G A memo or e-mail you weren't copied on. G A moment when you were the last person to learn
something. Not sharing information rarely achieves the desired effect. In order to have power, you need to inspire loyalty rather than fear and suspicion. Here are the unintentional or accidental ways you can withhold information: G Being too busy to get back to someone with valu-
able information. G Forgetting to include someone in your discussions
or meetings. G Delegating a task to a subordinate, but not taking
the time to show them how to get it done. So how do you stop withholding information? Start sharing it.
(continued on page 5)

4

Soundview Executive Book Summaries«

What Got You Here Won't Get You There -- SUMMARY

The 20 Habits
(continued from page 4)

Four Steps to Positive Recognition

Habit No. 10: Failing to Give Proper Recognition
This is a sibling of withholding information. In withholding recognition of another person's contribution to a team's success, you are not only sowing injustice and treating people unfairly, but also depriving people of the emotional payoff that comes with success. They feel forgotten, ignored and pushed to the side.
Habit No. 11: Claiming Credit that We Don't Deserve
When someone steals the credit for a success you created, they're committing the most rage-inducing interpersonal "crime" in the workplace. It creates a bitterness that's hard to forget. You can forgive someone for not recognizing your stellar performance. You can't forgive that person for recognizing it and brazenly claiming it as his or her own.
The best way to stop being a credit hog is to do the opposite -- share the wealth. Here's a simple drill:
For one day (or longer) make a mental note of every time you privately congratulate yourself on an achievement, large or small. Then write it down. You'll find you pat yourself on the back more often than you think.
Once you've assembled the list, ask yourself if it's in any way possible that someone else might deserve the credit. For example, if you showed up on time for a meeting, is it because you are punctual and thoughtful? Or because your assistant hounded you about the meeting, chased you off a phone call and made sure you were out the door to get there in time?
As you go through your list, consider this make-orbreak-question: If any of the other people involved in your episodes were looking at the situation, would they give you as much credit as you are claiming for yourself? Or would they hand it to someone else, perhaps even themselves?
Habit No. 12: Making Excuses
You can divide excuses into two categories: blunt and subtle. Blunt excuses sound like: "I'm sorry I missed our lunch date. My assistant marked it down for the wrong day on my calendar." However, the message is: "See, it's not that I forgot the lunch date. It's not that I don't regard you as important. It's that my assistant is inept. Blame my assistant, not me."
The problem with this type of excuse is that we rarely get away with it -- and it's hardly effective leadership strategy.
The more subtle excuses appear when we attribute our failings to some inherited DNA: "I'm impatient" or "I am horrendous at time management. I guess that's just the way I am." The next time you hear yourself saying, "I'm just not good at ..." ask yourself, "Why not?"

1. Make a list of all the important groups of people in your life.
2. Write down the name of every important person in each group.
3. Twice a week, review the list of names and ask, "Did someone on this page do something that I should recognize?"
4. If the answer is yes, give quick recognition, either by phone, e-mail, voice mail or a note. If the answer is no, do nothing.
Within a year, your reputation for providing positive recognition can improve from poor to excellent.
Habit No. 13: Clinging to the Past
People who cling to the past -- who want to understand why they are the way they are -- can't change the past, rewrite it or make excuses for it. All they can do is accept it and move on.
But for some reason, many people enjoy living in the past, especially if going back there lets them blame someone else for anything that's gone wrong in their lives. That's when clinging to the past becomes an interpersonal problem. We use the past as a weapon against others. We also use the past as a way of contrasting it with the present -- usually to highlight something positive about ourselves at the expense of someone else, for example, "When I was your age ..."
Habit No. 14: Playing Favorites
If we aren't careful, we can end up treating people at work like dogs -- rewarding those who heap unthinking, unconditional admiration on us.
The net result is obvious: You're encouraging behavior that serves you, but not necessarily in the best interest of the company. If everyone is fawning over the boss, who's getting the work done? Worse, it tilts the field against honest, principled employees who won't play along. This is a double hit of bad news. You're not only playing favorites but favoring the wrong people!
For information on how to stop playing favorites, go to: http://my.summary.com
Habit No. 15: Refusing to Express Regret
Whatever the reason, refusing to apologize causes as much ill will in the workplace as any other interpersonal flaw. People who can't apologize might as well wear a T-shirt that says, "I don't care about you." The irony is that all the fears that lead us to resist apologizing are
(continued on page 6)

Soundview Executive Book Summaries«

5

What Got You Here Won't Get You There -- SUMMARY

The 20 Habits
(continued from page 5)

-- and no matter how much you think you're saving your hide, you're actually killing it.

actually erased by an apology. When you tell someone "I'm sorry," you turn people into your allies.
The best thing about apologizing is that it forces everyone to let go of the past. When you employ it on co-workers it can have a great effect on how they feel about you and themselves.
Habit No. 16: Not Listening
People will tolerate all sorts of rudeness, but the inability to pay attention holds a special place in their hearts. When you're not listening you're sending out an armada of negative messages. The reality for leaders of the past and leaders in the future is that in the past, very bright people would put up with disrespectful behavior, but in the future they will leave!
Habit No. 17: Failing to Express Gratitude
Often, the two sweetest words in the English language are "Thank you." Although there's no art to saying it, people have a tough time executing this rudimentary maneuver.
If you don't know what to say, your default response to any suggestion should be "Thank you." Almost any response other than this has the potential to stir up trouble. Intentionally or not, you appear as if you are attacking the person talking to you.
Habit No. 18: Punishing the Messenger
Punishing the messenger is not merely the unjust retaliatory action we take against a whistle-blower or the angry tirade we heap on an employee who tells us something we don't enjoy hearing. It's also the small responses we make throughout the day whenever we are inconvenienced or disappointed.
It's the expletive you neglect to delete in a meeting when a subordinate announces a deal fell apart. If you had calmly asked, "What went wrong?" no damage would be done. The subordinate would explain and everyone in the room would be wiser for it.
However, the flash of temper sends a different signal. It says: "If you want to tick off the boss, surprise him or her with bad news." To stop this bad habit, all you need to say is "Thank you."
Habit No. 19: Passing the Buck
This is the behavioral flaw by which we judge leaders. A leader who cannot shoulder the blame is not someone we will follow blindly into battle. Passing the buck is the dark flip side of claiming credit that others deserve. Instead of depriving others of their rightful glory for a success, you wrongfully saddle them with the shame of your failure.
You're not fooling anyone -- except perhaps yourself

Habit No. 20: An Excessive Need to Be `Me'
This is the chronic behavior, both positive and negative, that we think of as our inalterable essence. If we're chronically poor at returning phone calls -- whether because we're overcommitted, we're simply rude or we believe if people really need to talk to us they'll call again until they get through -- we mentally give ourselves a pass every time we fail to get back to callers: "Hey, that's me. Deal with it."
It's easy to make a virtue of our flaws -- simply because flaws constitute what we think of as "me." This is one of the toughest obstacles to making positive longterm change in our behavior. But it doesn't need to be.
That's because it's not about you. It's about what other people think of you. The less you focus on your need to "be me" and the more you consider what your staff is feeling, the more it will benefit you. I
The 21st Habit: Goal Obsession
Goal obsession stands apart from the other 20 habits, not because it is a flaw, but because it is often the root cause of an annoying behavior. The habit is the force at play when we get so wrapped up in achieving our goal that we do it at the expense of a larger mission.
Goal obsession comes from misunderstanding what you want in your life. You think you'd be truly happy if you made more money, lost 30 pounds or got the corner office. So you pursue those goals relentlessly. You don't appreciate until later that in obsessing about making more money, you might be neglecting the loved ones for whom you are presumably securing that money.
It also comes from misunderstanding what others want you to do. A boss tells you that you have to show 10 percent revenue growth for the year, so when it appears you will miss that target, goal obsession forces you to adopt questionable, less-than-honest methods of hitting the target. If you examine it more closely, you're not obsessed with hitting the 10 percent growth; your true goal is pleasing your boss.
These are the classic conditions of the goal obsessed, which makes it all the more important to reflect:
G Am I achieving a task -- and forgetting my organization?
G Am I making money to support my family -- and forgetting the family I am trying to support?
G Are you on time to deliver a sermon to your staff -- and forgetting to practice what you preach?
G After all this effort you don't want to find yourself at a dead end, asking, "What have I done?" I

6

Soundview Executive Book Summaries«

What Got You Here Won't Get You There -- SUMMARY

PART III Ł HOW WE CAN CHANGE FOR THE BETTER
Feedback
Feedback has always been with us. Formal up-theladder feedback designed to help managers appeared in the middle of the 20th century with the first suggestion box. A more recent development is 360-degree feedback, which is solicited from everybody at all levels of the organization. Here are five ways to get feedback by paying closer attention to the world around you:
1. Make a list of people's casual remarks about you. Examples: "That was really smart" or "You're late." Then do it the next day and the next. Do it at home too, if you want. Eventually you'll compile enough data about yourself to establish the challenge before you.
2. Observe how people deal with you. Do they listen when you have the floor or are they drumming their fingers? A variation on this drill is to make sure you're the first person to arrive at a meeting. Observe how people respond to you as they enter. Do they pull up a chair next to you? Or do they barely acknowledge your presence and sit across the room?
3. Complete the sentence. Pick the one thing you want to get better at, then list the positive benefits that will accrue to you and the world if you achieve it. For example, "If I get in shape, one benefit to me is that ..." and then complete the sentence. As you get deeper into this exercise, your answers will become less corporately correct and more personal. That's when you know
Practicing `Feedforward'
Feedforward is feedback going in the opposite direction. If feedback reports on how you functioned in the past, then feedforward comes in the form of ideas that you can put into practice in the future. Feedforward asks you to do four simple things:
1. Pick one behavior you would like to change that would make a significant difference in your life.
2. Describe this objective in a one-on-one dialogue to anyone you know.
3. Ask that person for two suggestions for the future that might help you achieve a positive change in your selected behavior. The only ground rule is there can be no mention of the past. Everything is about the future.
4. Listen attentively to the suggestions. Take notes if you want. The only ground rule is you are not allowed to judge, rate or critique the suggestions. You can't even say anything positive. The only response you're permitted is "Thank you."

you've hit on an interpersonal skill that you really want and need to improve.
4. Listen to your self-aggrandizing remarks. None of us is immune to this phenomenon. What do you boast about? It's possible that if you assess this alleged "strength" as closely as your friends do, it's really a weakness. You shouldn't be bragging about it at all.
5. Look homeward. Your flaws at work don't vanish when you walk through the door at home.
Feedback tells us what to change, not how to do it. But when you know what to change, you're ready to start changing yourself and how people perceive you. You're ready for the next step: telling everyone you're sorry. I
For additional information on apologizing, go to: http://my.summary.com
Telling the World, or Advertising
After you apologize, you must advertise. You have to declare in what area you intend to change. You have to be your own press secretary. You can't just apologize and say you're trying to be better just once. You have to drill it into people repeatedly, until they've internalized the concept. Here's how to act like your own press secretary:
G Treat every day as if it were a press conference during which your colleagues are judging you, waiting to see you trip up. That mindset will boost your selfawareness enough to remind you to stay on high alert.
G Behave as if every day is an opportunity to hit home your message -- to remind people you're trying really hard.
G Treat every day as a chance to take on all challengers. There will be people who don't want you to succeed. So be a little paranoid. If you're alert to those who want you to fail, you'll know how to handle them.
G Think of the process as an election campaign. You don't elect yourself to the position of "new improved you." Your colleagues do.
G Think of the process in terms of weeks and months, not just day to day. I
Listening
Eighty percent of our success in learning from other people is based on how well we listen. Most people think listening is a passive activity. Not true. Good listeners regard what they do as a highly active process -- with every muscle engaged, especially the brain. There are three things good listeners do:
1. Think before they speak. 2. Listen with respect. 3. Gauge their response by asking themselves, "Is it
(continued on page 8)

Soundview Executive Book Summaries«

7

What Got You Here Won't Get You There -- SUMMARY

Listening
(continued from page 7)
worth it?" The ability to make a person feel that he or she is the most important (and only) person in the room is the skill that separates the great from the near-great. The great ones do it all the time. I
Expressing Gratitude
Thanking people works because it expresses one of our most basic emotions: gratitude. When someone does something nice for you, they expect gratitude -- and think less of you for withholding it.
The best thing about saying "Thank you" is that it creates closure in any potentially explosive discussion. What can you say after someone thanks you? You can't argue with them. You can't try to prove them wrong. You can't trump them, get angry or ignore them. I
Following Up
People need to go back to all their co-workers every month or so and ask for comments and suggestions. If you do this every month, your colleagues eventually begin to accept that you're getting better -- not because you say so but because it's coming from their lips.
Follow-up is the most protracted part of the process of changing for the better. It goes on for 12 to 18 months. It's the difference-maker in the process. More than anything, though, follow-up makes you do it, because by engaging in the follow-up process, you are changing. I
PART IV Ł PULLING OUT THE STOPS
Changing: The Rules
The following eight rules will help you get a better handle on the process of change. If you obey them, you'll be stacking the deck in your favor.
1. You might not have a disease that behavioral change can cure. Sometimes feedback reveals a symptom, not a disease. For instance, one CEO's feedback was all positive, but he felt completely at sea with changing technology. The solution was not behavioral change, but getting a tech guru to mentor him.
2. Pick the right thing to change. Successful people have a tendency to overcommit. If you list seven flaws, you'll want to tackle all of them. Turn your attention to the one vital flaw that needs fixing.
3. Don't delude yourself about what you really must

change.
4. Don't hide from the truth you need to hear.
5. There is no ideal behavior. The perfect benchmark human being, like the perfect benchmark organization, does not exist. No matter how many of the successful attributes for the model executive you could list that you don't embody, the real question is, how bad is the problem?
6. If you can measure it, you can achieve it. Measuring is the only way you can know for sure how you're doing.
7. Monetize the result, then create a solution. There are all sorts of ways to encourage people to change their behavior -- from bonuses to vacations.
8. The best time to change is now. It's time to stop dreaming of a time when you won't be busy, because the time will never come. Ask yourself, "What am I willing to change now?" I
You Are Here Now
Research was conducted involving more than 200 highpotential leaders from companies around the world. These are people who could jump at a moment's notice to better-paying

RECOMMENDED READING LIST
If you liked What Got You Here Won't Get You There, you'll also like:
1. The Speed of Trust by Stephen M.R. Covey with Rebecca Merrill. There is one thing common to every individual, relationship, family, organization, economy and civilization. That one thing is trust.
2. Know-How by Ram Charan. The author presents eight skills that separate top performers from nonperformers in the corporate world.
3. Go Put Your Strengths to Work by Marcus Buckingham. Research shows that most people do not make full use of their strengths on the job. Buckingham intends to change that through a sixstep, six-week experience that will reveal the hidden magnitude of your strengths.
4. The Carrot Principle by Adrian Gostick and Chester Elton. The authors team up to show readers how the best managers are able to use recognition to engage employees, boost performance and retain talent.
5. Words that Work by Dr. Frank Luntz. According to Dr. Luntz, to effectively obtain the power of communication, you must learn that it's not always what you say, but how you say it.

positions elsewhere. Each was

asked a simple question: "If you stay in this company,

why are you going to stay?" The three top answers were:

1. "I am finding meaning and happiness now. The

work is exciting and I love what I am doing."

2. "I like the people. They are my friends. This feels

like a team, like a family."

3. "I can follow my dreams. This organization is giv-

ing me a chance to do what I really want to do in life."

The answers were never about money. They were

always about happiness, relationships, following dreams

and meaning. Use that wisdom now. Don't look ahead.

Look behind. Look back from your old age at the life

you hope to live. You are here. You can get there! Let the journey begin. I

8

Soundview Executive Book Summaries«

