
































Ak San enc 
os 











Ken 





CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 


TO 


Cornell University 


Library 





The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 


There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924074296975 


In compliance with current copyright 
law, Ridley's Book Bindery, Inc. 
produced this replacement volume 

on paper that meets the ANSI Standard 

Z39.48-1984 to replace the 
irreparably deteriorated original. 


1992 


THE TARGUMS 


תס 


ONKELOS AND JONATHAN BEN U2ZIEL 
ON THE PENTATEUCH. 


LEVITICUS, NUMBERS, AND DEUTERONOMY. 








THE TARGUMS 


OF 


ONKELOS AND JONATHAN BEN UZZIEL 


ON THE PENTATEUCH; 


WITH THE FRAGMENTS GF THE 


JERUSALEM TARGUM: 


FROM THE CHALDEE. 


BY 


J. W. ETHERIDGE, M.A. 


TRANSLATOR OF THE NEW TESTAMENT FROM THE PESCHITO .ד‎ 


LEVITICUS, NUMBERS, AND DEUTERONOMY. 


“Tus provision, (the Paraphrase,) made by men, was directed by the Ruler of 
Providence, in His love tor the remnant of His people, to afford us stay and 
818 in His Toran. His laws and precepts, till the time of the Redemption 
shall arrive, when He will raise from the dust the fallen tabernacle of David, 
and say to the daughter of Zion, Awake, arise.” 

MENDELSSOHR. 


LONDON: 


LONGMAN, GREEN, LONGMAN, ROBERTS, 
AND GREEN. 


1865. 


GLOSSARY 


OF HIERATIC AND LEGAL TERMS 


IN THE 


PENTATEUCH; 


ON THE BEST AUTHORITIES. CHRISTIAN AND RABBINICAL. 


Tue biblical title of the Mosaic writings most usually 
employed is Ha Torau, “the Law ;” from yarah, “to 
teach,” or “ direct:”—“ the Law of the Lord,” to 
assert its true origin and authority; and “ the Law of 
Moses,” to denote the mediatorial agency by which it 
was given to mankind. The common conventional title, 
“the Pentateuch,” is a combination of the Greek words, 
tevxos, “a volume,” and ,6דע6ח‎ “ five;” “the Five- 
fold Book ;” which corresponds with the Rabbinical 
appellation of Chamishah Chumeshe hattorah, “ the Tive 
Fifths of the Law.” Whether this division was made 
by the author, or the entire work was composed by him 
in one continuous treatise, cannot be fully ascertained. 
The five books, as we now classify them, are not distin- 
guished in the original Hebrew by any other specific 
titles than the initial words. Thus Genesis, from its 
first word, is called Bereshith, “In the beginning ;” 
Exodus, Ve Elleh Shemoth, “These are the names ;” 
Leviticus, Faiyitra, “ And he called ; Numbers, Vai- 
dabler, “And he spoke,” with the current title of 
Bemiddar, “In the wilderness ;” while Deuteronomy 
takes its name from the first two words, 070% Tadde- 

B 


‘ GLOSSARY. 


arim, “ These are the words,” or Sepher 120007700, “the 
Book of the Words.” 

The general contents of the Pentateuch are,—1. His- 
torical ; 2. Legislative. In Genesis the Historical 
details are given in successive sections called Toledoth, 
ai yevéeoets, histories, especially of the origin of persons 
or things, from yadad, “ to create,” or “bring forth.” 
Thus we have the 20060010 of the heavens and the earth, 
from the first verse of the first chapter of Genesis, to 
the sixth verse of the second chapter. These are fol- 
lowed by the ¢oledoth of Adam, chap. v. 1; of Noah, 
vi. 9; of the first nations, 10, and the first empire, 
11: after which come the zoledoth of Abraham, Isaac, 
Jacob, and Joseph, to the end. In the following books 
the history, no longer biographical, takes a broader cha- 
racter, and describes the development of the Hebrew 
nation as such, from the Exodus to the death of Moses. 
The greater portion of the Pentateuch, however, from 
the middle of the second to the end of the fifth book, is 
a digest of the Laws of the Jewish Dispensation, ethical, 
ritualistic, and secular. The last book condenses both 
the history aud the legislation, by a summary which cul- 
minates in a marvellous grandeur of prophecy, whose 
words of warning and benedictions of grace become, for 
all time, a Divinely spoken attestation to the Torah as a 
Revelation from God. 

This is all that needs to be said here on the structure 
of the work at large; my design in these introductory 
pages being restricted to the simple object expressed at 
the head,—a brief explication of the terminology of the 
Pentateuch, and not a hermeneutic study of its several 
parts, for which I refer the student to the learned 
volumes of Graves and Macdonald, Baehr and Fairbairn, 
Havernick, Hengstenberg, and the commentators in 
general, Nor have I entered even on the question of 


GLOSSARY, 3 


the authenticity of the works of the Hebrew legislator, 
about which we have had within the last three years 
many able treatises, contributing to set that most 
important truth upon a foundation not more sure than 
it was before, but more evidently sure to us. The 
genuineness of the Mosaic writings, the credibility of 
their contents, and the Divine inspiration which is their 
source, are now more firmly believed in than ever; a 
result which all who reverence the Bible as the Word 
of God must rejoice in, however they may deplore the 
painful circumstances which gave occasion to the con- 
troversy, or the wavering of too many, shaken by scep- 
ticism, through the influence of one-sided objections, 
who would have stood firm had they sought and found 
the support which alwars comes to the sincere and 
impartial inquirer with the full knowledge of the truth. 

In the arrangement of these terms and phrases of the 
Pentateuch, to avoid the dryness of a mere alphabetic 
vocabulary, I have grouped them under the various 
subjects to which they relate, with a slight tissue of con- 
necting remarks, which may serve at once to render 
them a little more readable, and conduce to their 
elucidation. 


I. THE DIVINE NAMES. 


Tue holy Pentateuch opens with a sentence which 
combines the majesty and simplicity of a Divine oracle: 
“In the beginning Elohim created the heavens and the 
earth ;” a sentence whose few but sublime words throw 
the first beam of light on the otherwise inscrutable 
mystery of existence, and lead us up to the foun- 
tain and cause of created being, in God, its Author 
and End. 

I, The name Exonru is the plural form of Z/ or 

B2 


4 GLOSSARY. 


Eloha, the ground-form of which some think they find 
in the Hebrew root 0700, “to swear,” i. g.,a God in 
covenant: some, that it lies in the cognate Arabic root 
alaha, “to worship,” or “ adore,” from which are formed 
alike the Arabian name of 42104 and the Hebrew Eloha, 
the Being who alone is adorable: but others, deriving 
it from the abstract noun Z/, or U/, consider Lohim to 
be an appellation of the Omnipotent; the name of a 
Being whose will concentrates all power in itself. £7 
Elohiin in their view is equivalent to 6 Qeos icyupos, 
or IIavroxpatwp, “the Almighty God.” 

Yet to Him who is of necessity One, is here given, 
and by His own dictate, a plural appellation. This phe- 
nomenon, which occurs in a multitude of places in the 
Old Testament, is explained as being a mere adaptation 
to the usual style of royalty ;—pluralis majestatis, vel 
excellentie. According to this view it does not indicate 
a plurality of Persons in the Deity, but the multiform 
and all-comprising perfection of the One God; the 
index of physical and moral majesty in their highest 
expression. When, therefore, we read such words 
as, “ Elohim said, Let us make man in Our Image;” 
(Gen. i. 26;) or, “ Behold, the man is become as 
one of Us;” (Gen. iii. 223) the formula is to be 
understood after the manner in which we read the plural 
in a proclamation of one of the kings of the earth. 
But the insufficiency of this explanation is apparent in 
the fact, that Elohim is used not only with plural pro- 
nouns in the first person, as in the texts quoted, but 
with plural adjectives, (Elohim ferodim, “near Gods,” 
Deut. iv. 7; chayim, “living Gods,” Jer. x. 10; 
kedoshim, “holy Gods,” Joshua xxiv. 19,) and in 
concord with plural verbs in the third person. (Gen. 
xx. 13: Hithu Elohim othi, “The Gods caused me to 
wander.” Gen. xxxv. 7: Niglu elaif ha-Elohim, “The 


GLOSSARY. 5 


Gods were revealed to him.” See also Gen. xxxi. 53.)! 
When we read in some royal proclamation such words 
as, “ We have decreed,” the form of the pronoun being 
usual on the lips of a king makes no hindrance to our 
perception that the words are those of an individual ; 
but when we read, “The kings have decreed,” we are 
obliged, by the common sense of language, to understand 
more kings than one. But such is the combination of 
the nominative and the verb in the texts just cited. The 
Bible, did it contain no other intimation on the mystery 
of the Triune Nature, by combining this plural uame 
of the Deity with a singular verb, as in Gen. i. 1, or 
with another Divine name in the singular, as “ Jehovah 
Elohim,” or £¢ Elohim, would not fail to suggest the 
conception of a nature in which simplicity or unity of 
essence is characterized by a plurality of Persons. 

The modern Jewish theologians, in their wish to 
keep at the greatest distance from the peculiar doctrines 
of Christianity, have diverged in some instances, and 
this among them, from the belief of their ancient pre- 
decessors. Tie Jewish people, at the Christian epoch, 
and for a long time after it, though steadfast as any of 
their descendants in the doctrine of the Divine unity, 
were nevertheless habituated to the idea of a personal 
plurality in Him whose name is Elohim. Considering 
the four Christian Gospels merely as authentic contem- 
porary history, we have in them important documentary 
evidence of the state of public opinion and religious 
belief among that people eighteen hundred years ago. 
In reading the various discourses and colloquies whicu 
have a record on those pages, can we suppose that 
when Jesus Christ told the people of the willingness of 


1 We could refer to the plural form in Eccles. sii. 1: “ Remember 
thy Creators : 7 but the reading there is precarious, as many good MSS. 
have the singular. 


6 GLOSSARY. 


“the Father” to give “the Holy Spirit” to those 
who ask Him, He used terms which were not already 
familiar to them? So when He spoke with Nicodemus 
of “the Spirit” as the Regenerator, and of God so 
loving the world as to give His only begotten Son for 
its redemption, or when the Baptist discoursed of the 
love which the Father hath for the Son, did these 
sacred appellations fall for the first time upon their 
ears? In truth the formula 4d, Ben, ve Ruach ha 
Kadosh, “Father, Son, and Holy Spirit,” was theirs 
before it was ours. It developed the sense of what 
they read in their Scriptures of One who is the Father ; 
(Mal. it. 10 ;) of One who is the Son; (Prov. xxx. 4;} 
and of One who is the Spirit of Holiness. (Psalm hi. 11; 
exxsix. 7; Isaiah xlviii. 16.) They had a term which 
corresponds to our technical word “Trinity,” namely, 
Shilosh, and in Aramaic Talithutho; and in some of 
their earliest post-biblical literature the doctrine inti- 
mated by that term has a categorical expression as distinct 
as any that are found in the creeds of the church.? 


? ך‎ may refer, for examples, to the passages in the Zohar, where the 
Shema, or confession of the Divine Unity, (Deut. vi. 4,) is explained 
upon Trinitarian principles.  * Hear, O Israel : Jehovah our God is one 
Jehovah. By the first name in this sentence, Jehovah, is signified God 
the Father, the Head of all things. By the next words, our God, is 
signified God the Son, the fountain of ail knowledge; and by the 
second Jehovah is signified God the Holy Ghost, proceeding of them 
both. To all which is added the word One, to signify that these three 
are Indivisible. But this mystery shall not be revealed until the 
coming of Messiah.” So the 172900708, or angels’ song, in Isai. vi. is 
expounded in the same way. “‘ Holy, holy, holy Lord God of Sabaoth. 
Isaiah, by repeating Holy three times, does as much as if he had said, 
Holy Father, Holy Son, and Holy Spirit; which three Holies do make 
but one only Lord God of Sabaoth.” The sacred dogma itself is thus 
laid down: “Come and see the mystery. There are three degrees (in 
Elohim) ; and each degree is by itself (dalchudi]; nevertheless [aph al- 
ag] all are one; all united in unity, and this inseparable from that.” 
(Zohar, cap. 8. Compare the Jezirah, i, 35.) The Zohar gives a 


GLOSSARY. 7 


11. .יהוה ,הגספ‎ In this holy and awful Name, 
as the revealed appellation of the Self-Existing, All- 
Sufficient, and Unchangeable Being, we possess the 
germ and principle of all true theology. ‘The Hebrew 
divines call it, by emphasis, Ha Shem, tHE \ פורג‎ ; with 
the reverential epithets of Skema 00000, “the Great 
Name;” Shem shel arba othioth, “the Name of Four 
Letters ;” (the Greek Tefragramma ;) Shem ha-etsein, 
“the very Name;” Shem hammeyochad, “the one, 
singular, or peculiar Name ;” and Shem hammephorash, 
“the Name of Manifestation,” as making the Divine 
Nature known; (from plarash, “to explain;”) or, in 
the meaning which that verb bears in Aramaic of being 
separate or distinguished,—“the Name which is 
especially sacred.” 

The reverence and godly fear with which this Divine 
title is regarded, have among the Jews for two thousand 
years made it a name for the thought, rather than the 
tongue; and the silence of so many ages, in the disuse 
of it as a vocable, has been followed by the absolute 
loss of its true pronunciation. The averseness to the 
use of the Name by the voice was at an early period 
strengthened by the view taken of the third command- 
ment, as not only forbidding perjury and blasphemy, but 
also the light and indiscriminating pronunciation of the 
Holy Name in common conversation; and by conclu- 
sions from the case in Levit. xxiv. 11-16, where the sin 
of the man was thought to have consisted not only in 
his blaspheming the Name, but in pronouncing it. See 
the Targums on the place. The influence of this feel- 
ing showed itself in the habit of refraining from the 


curious, but of course defective, illustration from the human voice, 
which is 006 thing, though formed by the union of three elements,— 
warmth, vapour, and air. The passage, which contains some good 
dogmatic definitions, may be found on p. 18 of the Sulzbach edition, 
and p. 48 of that of Amsterdam. 


8 GLOSSARY. 


common use of the Name, except in worship, and in 
pious salutations; (Berakoth, iti. 5 ;) and then of 
restricting the utterance of it to the lips of the 
priest in the public services of religion. Thus, in 
pronouncing the trinal blessing, (Num. vi.,) the priest 
“might make utterance of the Name according to its 
writing.” (Shem hammephorash hi-kethabo.—Talaud, 
Sotah, vii. 6; Tamid, vii. 2.) When the high priest 
pronounced it in the service of the dav of Atonement, 
the people fell prostrate on the ground. (Jliskna, Yoma, 
vi. 2.) So that hitherto the use of it was not abso- 
lutely forbidden, but the abuse only. But the exag- 
geration of the sentiment led at last to the final cessa- 
tion of the use itself. After the time of the high 
priest Shemeon Hazaddik, it ceased to be spoken. 
It was heard in the temple for the last time from his 
mouth. Henceforward whoever should attempt to pro- 
nounce it was to have no part in the world to come. 
(Sanhedrin, x. 1.) The consequence has been an utter 
oblivion of the orthoépy of the Name, not only in its 
oral sound, but in its grammatical vocalization ; a defect 
which has caused not a little embarrassment as to the 
precise composition and import of the appellation. The 
four antique consonants remain, like an immutable 
symbol of the Divine Being; but the manner in which 
they are vocalized, from the peculiar nature of the 
Hebrew language, will greatly modify the signification. 
And perhaps no name has been subjected to so many 
experiments for some past time as the sacred one before 
us, for which the following modes of expression have 
been severa'ly contended for:—YeHeVeH, YeHVeH, 
YaHVeH, YaHaVaH, YaHaVeH, YeHoVaH. After 
these we cease to wonder at the diversities in the Greek 
and other ethnic forms of the name; as Ava, Iaw, 106, 
Tevw, Atos, Jovis, and Jova. 


GLOSSARY. 9 


But amid all these variations as to the mode in 
which 15 should be syllabled, the real meaning of the 
name is not seriously obscured. The basis of it stands 
sure, in the Hebrew verb hayah, “to be;” a verb of 
which there are two forms, 20/00 and havah, the latter 
being the more ancient. It is that which appears in 
the name Jehovah; a circumstance which should 6 
taken into account in examining one of the questions of 
the day on the antiquity of the name. 

Now, of the preterite 26/00 or hurah, “He was,” 
the third person future, masculine, is 170/60, or 170061, 
“He will be;” a form of the verb which certainly 
gives that of the title YHVH. In this point of view, 
as predicating futurity of existence, it is held to express, 
in the third person, “He will be;” that which the 
Almighty affirmed of Himself (Exod. iii, 14) in the 
first person, Ehyeh, “I will be.” But the futurity of 
existence here proclaimed is not that of one who is only 
to be hereafter; it is the permanent existence of a 
Being who now Is, and who ever has Been. For the 
form 120060 is held to be equivalent with Ye-havah, the 
prefix of the future combined with the preterite root, to 
indicate the permanence of One who has ever existed. 
He who Was and Is, is He who Will Be. The 
punctuation of the Name as Yehovah is an attempt to 
express the fulness of this truth, in aduniting the three 
elements of the verb “to Be.” Thus 19/6, “ He will 
be ;” Hoveh, “ Heis;” Havah, “He was.” So in the 
Apocalypse the Deity is named as 6 7v, Kal 6 dv, Kai 
6 épyowevos, (Rev. iv. 8,) “ He who was, and who is, 
aud who is to come,” or “‘to be, still; ” in Hebrew, Hu 
haveh, hu hoveh, vehu yehueh. Hence the name Yehovah 
has always been considered as the peculiar and incom- 
municable title of the Being who is self-existent, all- 
sufficient, and unchangeable. In the Tetragramma 


-. 


BO 


10 GLOSSARY. 


there is a concentration of all the Divine attributes ; for 
He who is the self-existent must be self-sufficient, 
and therefore infinitely blessed, benevolent, and just; 
omniscient, because spiritual in His nature, and every- 
where present, as existing absolutely; boundless in 
power as in presence; immutable, inhabiting eternity. 

The Masorites punctuated the name Jehovah with 
the vowels of »y4x Adonai ; thus, m}m. But when the 
two titles, Jehovah and Adonai, occur in the Bible in 
apposition, the former is pointed with the vowels of 
,אָלהים‎ as in Hab. אַנִי :19 .גוג‎ ning, 

The authors of the Septuagint Version, under the 
influence of the Palestinian feeling with regard to the 
Holy Name, do not give it a literal expression, but 
render it by 6 Kupios, “the Lord;” and Yehovah 
Elohim by 100008 6 Oeds. The old Syriac Version for 
Yehovah employs the title Morio, “the Lord.” The 
Syrians considered this name with its four letters 
M.R.I.A. to correspond with the Hebrew Tetragram, 
mains; and the letters themselves as the initials of words 
symbolical of the Divine Nature; the first, m, standing 
for morutho, “ dominion;” the second, 7, for raliutho, 
“majesty,” or “ greatness ; the third and fourth, 2, a, 
for aithutho, “essential being.” 110770, “The Lord,” 
is distinguished from the common form of Jar, “a 
lord,” and is never used but as an appellation of the 
Deity. In the Chaldee Targums 190000 is always 
expressed by Yeya. 

111. הפועת‎ asuer Euzyen. Exod. iii. 14: “And 
God said to Moses, I AM THAT I AM. Thus shalt 
thou say to the children of Israel, I AM hath sent me 
to you.” 15: “And God said yet to Moses, Thus 
shalt thou say to the children of Israel, Jehovah the 
God of your Fathers hath sent me to you. This is My 
Name for ever, and this is My Memorial for all genera- 


GLOSSARY. 11 


tions.” It will be seen that Jehovah in the fifteenth 
verse is used synonymously with Eheyeh asher Eheyeh 
in the fourteenth; and that in the latter title is to be 
found the Divine exposition of the former one. Gram- 
matically 206060 is the first person singular future of 
hayah, “he was,’—“T Will Be:” but some good 
Hebrew divines believe that the word, as here used, 
consists of the preterite 20707, “he was,” with the first 
person prefix x, the initial and representative of the 
pronoun dAzochi, I—m "x B-heyeh; as if He had 
said, “I Am He who hath been;” or, “I, who have 
been, Am He who Is.” This, then, like the Tetra- 
gramma, is an incommunicable Name of the Unchange- 
able because Self-Existent One; or, as Maimonides 
interprets the Divine words, “the Being who is Berye, 
that is, a Being who must of necessity Be; for that 
which exists of necessity must have existed evermore.” 
And to the same effect the exposition given by the 
metaphysical theologian Rabbi Joseph Albo: “I Am 
the Cause of My own Being, and the First Cause of all 
other: for all other being is, not because it is, but 
because I AM.” 

The Almighty made here this announcement of His 
unchangeableness, to give greater stress to His now 
revealed purpose to deliver Israel from bondage, and to 
redeem them into the liberty of His people. “I Am 
for ever; and therefore am able to fulfil My promises.” 
So, in the sixth chapter of Exodus, the Name of the 
Immutable Jehovah, though known already in an 
imperfect manner by the patriarchs, is now to be 
known for the first time as that of Israel’s Covenant 
Gop, whose purposes, though they require the lapse of 
ages and millenniums for their full unfoldment, are the 
purposes of One with whom a thousand years are as a 
day. 


12 GLOSSARY. 


The Septuagint translates Lheyeh by, 126 6106 6 wv, 
“JT am the Existent.” Onkelos leaves the Hebrew 
untranslated; but the Palestinian Targum attempts a 
paraphrase : “‘ He who spake, and the world was; who 
spake, and all things were. And He said, This shalt 
thou say to the sons of Isracl, 1 Am He who Is, and 
who Will Be, hath sent me unto you.” The Jerusalem 
Targum has,— And the Word of the Lord said to 
Mosheh, He who spake to the world, Be, and it was; 
and who will speak to it, Be, and it will be. And He 
said, Thus shalt thou speak to the sons of Israel, 
Eheveh hath sent me unto you.” 

IV. Ev Swappar. (Gen. xvii. 1.) There are two 
leading opinions on the ground and meaning of this 
name. One, that it is derived from the noun daz, 
plenitude” or “abundance,” and, combined with the 
personal prefix sf, (the abbreviation of 0865, “ who,”) 
denotes the all-sutficiency of God, 22 si’daz. But the 
more generally received derivation makes it come from 
shad, “ power,” “ force,” especially that which is over- 
whelming, (shadad,) irresistible, like the hurricane, or 
the rising tide of the ocean. 77 Shaddai is “the 
Almighty God,” “the Omnipotent.” Shaddai is the 
pluralis majestatis ; and in most of the texts in which 
it occurs is no doubt rightly rendered by “the 
Almighty.” The Septuagint translates it sometimes 
by 6606; (Gen. xlix. 5 ;( sometimes by 6 ‘Ixavés, 
“the Sufficient ;” (Ruth i. 20, 91 ;( but more com- 
monly by Iavroxpatwp, “the Almighty.” Onkelos 
retains the Hebrew ; the Syriac has £2 Shaddai Aloha ; 
and the Samaritan Version, in Gen. xvii. 1, Anak 
Chiulah Sapukah, “1 am the Mighty, the Sufficient.” 
It may be remarked that the first revelation of this 
name to Abraham is joined with a command to walk 
before God and to be perfect; a command which fallen 


GLOSSARY. 13 


humanity can only obey by the effectual grace of the 
All-Sufficient Being who gives it. Compare Isai. 1. 
28, dl. 

V. Avoyar, “The Lord;” (Gen. xv. 8;) either 
from din, “to judge,” and so expressing the rectoral 
dominion of God, or from adon, (pointed eden,) “a 
basis,” “foundation ;” a title of the Divine Supporter 
and therefore Proprietor and Lord of all creation. [In 
Deut. xxxii. 4 God is called Ha Tsiir, “the Rock,” as 
the foundation and strength of created existence.] 
The form Adonai is considered to be the pluralis 
excellentia. It must be distinguished from Adoni, 
“my lord,” the common title given to a superior. 

VI. Hetyox or Eryoy, the Most High; from 
halah or alah, “to ascend,” or “excel:” the Great 
Supreme, God over all. Gen. xiv. 22: Hi Helyon 
koneh shammayim va-arets, “God the most High, pos- 
sessor of the heavens and earth.” Onkelos, 27 Idlaah. 
Jonathan, Eloha 17/00. Samaritan Version, “The 
Most Mighty.” Septuagint, tyrucros, Altissimus. 


Note. Mesra pa Yeyva. Though this designation, 
peculiar to the Chaldee Targums, may not be ciassed 
with the Divine names as given in the Hebrew Scrip- 
tures, yet as it is often used in the paraphrases as an 
equivalent for some one of them, it ought not to be 
omitted in the present conspectus. We have already 
offered some observations upon it in the Introduction 
to our first volume ; and only add here a short supple- 
ment, by way of yiving clearer definement and stronger 
corroboration to the doctrine there laid down. 

The term Memra is used in a variety of acceptations. 
It is what the grammarians call verbum modvaonpov, “a 
word of several meanings.” 1. Mfemra has the sénse of 
a mere articulate word or spoken declaration. In such 


14 GLOSSARY. 


places it generally wants the final aleph: memr, “a 
word,” sermo, oratzo, like pithgama or milla in Chaldee. 
2. It is used with the import of an emphatic pronoun. 
Thus, memri, “my word,” equivalent to “I myself; ” 
memreka, “thou thyself;” memrieh, “he himself.” 
Example: “There is a covenant between me and thee.” 
Kayema bein memri uvein memrika. So Gen. xxvi. 3: 
“T will be with thee.” Targ.: Ve yehe memri be 
sahduk : “ And My word,” i. ¢., I Myself, “ will be thy 
helper.” 3. Asa personal appellation, intensifying the 
idea of personality. Itis then Jfemra da Yeya, “the 
Word of the Lord,’ i. e¢., the Lord Himself. Exod. 
xix. 17: “And Moses led forth the people to meet 
with God.” Targum: Likdamoth Memra da Yeya, 
“to meet with the Word of the Lord.” So Exod. iii. 
11, 12, 14; Gen. i. 27; xxvii. 21. 

But, 4.—and here is the point in question—It is 
used, we affirm, not only as a proper name, but as the 
proper name of one Person in the Godhead, as distin- 
guished from another, so as to indicate in some degree 
the Targumist’s perception of the mystery of a Personal 
Subsistence in the Divine nature, who is God with 
God, a second Person in the yet undivided Being of the 
One Jehovah. For the proof we adduce the following 
examples. 

(1.) Gen. xvi. 7: Hebrew tert: “And the Angel of 
the Lord found her by a fountain of water in the wil- 
derness....... And he said, Hagar, whence camest thou, 
and whither wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from 
the face of my mistress. And the Angel of the Lord 


said to her, Return....... I will multiply thy seed 
exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multi- 
TUDE. coeavs And she called the name of Jehovah who 


spake to her, Thou God seest me: for she said, Have I 
also here looked after Him who seeth me? Wherefore 


GLOSSARY. 1d 


the well was called Beer Jaharoi, A well to the Living 
One who seeth me.” 

Targum of Palestine: “ And the Angel of the Lord 
found her at the fountain of waters in the desert....... 
And he, said, Hagar,...whence comest thou, and 
whither dost thou go? And she said, From before my 
mistress have I fled. And the Angel of the Lord said 
to her, Return....Multiplying I will multiply thy sons, 
and they shall not be numbered for multitude....... And 
she gave thanks before the Lord, whose Memra spake 
to her, and thus said, Thou art He who livest and art 
Eternal; who seest, but art not seen: for she said, 
Here is revealed the glory of the Shekinah of the Lord 
after a vision.” [Jerusalem Targum: “ And Hagar 
gave thanks and prayed in the Name of the Memra of 
the Lord, who had been manifested to her, saying, 
Blessed be Thou, Eloha, the Living One of Eternity, 
who hast looked upon my affliction....... Wherefore she 
called the well, The well at which the Living and 
Eternal One was revealed.”] 

Here Hagar sees God, and the Memra, in one. But 
in the Memra she sees the Angel of the Lord, i.¢., one 
who is sent. A person cannot be described as sending 
himself: but God sends the Memra: the Memra is 
therefore God, but God in a second personality. 

(2.) Exod, xxxiii. 21: “ And the Lord said, Behold, 
there is a place by Me, and thou shalt stand upon a 
rock. And it shall come to pass, while My glory 
passeth by, that I will put thee in a cleft of the rock, 
and will cover thee with My hand, while I pass by.” 

Targ. Palest.: “Thou shalt stand upon the rock: 
and it shall be that when the glory of My Shekinah 
passeth before thee, I will put thee in a cavern of the 
rock, and I will overshadow thee with My Memra, until 
the time that I have passed by.” The distinction here 


16 GLOSSARY. 


is plain. The Memra overshadows Moses while Jeho- 
vah passes by, 

(3.) Num xxiii. 4: Hebrew teat: “ Aud God met 
Bileam.”  Turg. Palest.: “And the Memra from 
before the Lord met Bileam.” Conf. Onkelos in Joe. 
and the margin. 

(4.) Of the Angel whom the Lord promises Moses 
(Exod. xxiii. 20) to send before the people to be their 
guide and protector through the wilderness, He says, 
“Observe him, and obey his voice:...... for My Name 
isin him:” he Shem bekirbo, “ quia Nomen Meum i 
interiori ejus est ;” and therefore some of the rabbins 
identify the Angel with Shaddai. See Jarchi in doco. 
In this view, “ My Name is in him,” is equivalent with 
“My Nature or Essence is in him.” He is the Divine 
Angel; 10008 hablerith, “the Angel of the Cove- 
nant;” Jlalak haggoel, “the Angel the Redeemer.” 
But in the Targums this Angel is identified with the 
Memra. Thus, in Deut. xxxi. 6, Moses, referring to 
the promise of the heavenly Guide, bids the Israelites 
cast away all fear of their enemies; where the Targum 
reads, “ Fear them not: for the Memra of the Lord thy 
God will be the Leader before thee.” And in Joshua 
v. 14, 15, the Being who had the appearance of a man, 
us He spake with the Hebrew captain, but whose pre- 
sence made the ground on which He stood “ holy 
ground,” says to him, (according to the Targum,) “I 
am the Angel sent from the presence of God....... And 
Joshua fell upon his face, and adored.” “This Angel,” 
says Moses Ben Nachman, “ is the Angel Redeemer, of 
whom it is written, ‘For My Name is in him’ He is 
the Angel who said to Jakob, ‘I am the God of 
Bethel ;’ He it is of whom it is said, ‘God called to 
Moses out of the bush.’...... For it is written, ‘ Jehovah 
brought us up out of Egypt;’ aud elsewhere, ‘He 


GLOSSARY. 17 


sent His Angel, and brought us up out of Egypt.’ 
Again it is written, ‘And the Angel of His Pre- 
sence saved them;’ that Angel, namely, who is the 
Presence of God, of whom it is said, ‘My Presence 
shall go with thee, and I will give thee rest.’ Finally, 
this is the Angel of whom the prophet speaks, ‘ He 
whom ye seek shall suddenly come to His temple, even 
the Angel of the Covenant whom ye delight in’” In 
the passage quoted here by the Rabbi, from Isaiah Ixiii. 
8, 9, the Targum of Jonathan ben Uzziel identifies the 
Angel with the Memra, sent to redeem and to save. 
The comment of Philo is equally remarkable: “God, 
as the Shepherd and King, conducts all things accord- 
ing to law and righteousness, having established over 
them” tov dpOov 00700 Adyov, Tpwrdyovoy vidv, “ His 
true Word (and) Only Begotten Son, who, as the 
Viceroy of the great King, protects aud ministers to 
this sacred flock. For it is said, Behold, I am: I will 
send My angel befure thy face to keep thee in the 
way.” (De Agricult., Opp., i., 308.) 

Taking these passages into consideration, it seems 
difficult to arrive at any other conclusion than that the 
doctrine of the Targum on this subject is the same as 
that of St. John: “In the beginning was the Word, 
and the Word was with God, and the Word was Gop.” 
Onkelos and Jonathan ben Uzziel are witnesses to such 
a faith existing in the pre-apostolic times; and Philo of 
Alexandria, when discoursing with such amplitude upon 
the Logos, writes not as a mere Platonic philosopher, 
but as a believer in the traditional theology of his fore- 
fathers. The germ of this article of their faith they 
found in their canonical Scriptures. See the texts in 
our Introduction to the first volume of this work, p. 24. 


18 GLOSSARY. 


I. NOTICES OF ‘THE MESSIAH IN THE PENTATEUCH. 


Tae first promise given by God to fallen man was 
the promise of a Saviour. It speaks of Him as “ the 
seed of the woman,”’—zarah, her “offspring.” Eva 
saw in the birth of her first son a pledge of the fulfil- 
ment of the promise, and said, “I have obtained a man 
from the Lord.” Onkelos: “I have obtained the Man 
from before the Lord.” Syriac: “I have obtained the 
Man of the Lord:” Kanith Gabro la-Morio. For the 
scriptural comments on the promise and its antecedents, 
compare John viii. 44; 1 John ii, 8; 1 Cor. xv. 47. 
This first promise, though veiled in enigma, was plain 
enough to banish despair and kindle new hope: it sank 
deep into the human breast, and the children of Adam 
carried it with them in all their wanderings. It is well 
called the Proto-Evangelium, the Primary Gospel. It 
was comparatively obscure; for we expect not the 
splendour of the meridian hour to come at early dawn: 
but, as time passed, new revelations contributed to 
clear it up, 


“While light on light, and ray on ray, 
Successive brighten’d into day.” 


Even in the Pentateuch we witness such a progression. 

1. The first promise merely declared that the Destroyer 
of the serpent should be a man. 

2. In the prophecy of Noah, (Gen. ix. 26, 27,) there 
is a presumptive implication, that of the three races who 
were to descend from that patriarch, the expected One 
would spring from that of Shem. 

3. Among the Shemitic nations, that which would 
have Abraham for their ancestor was to be the favoured 
people, who should claim Him as their kinsman. (Gen. 
sil. 1-3 ; xvii. 18; xxii. 18 ;—JZeszareka, “in thy seed.” 


GLOSSARY. 19 


Compare Gen. xxvi. 4; Acts il. 25; Gal. iti. 8, 9, 16, 
18.) Then, 

4, Of the tribes into which the Abrahamic nation was 
divided, Judah’s would be that from which the Lord was 
to arise: Gen. xlixs. 10; where 6/2000 is a name of the 
Messiah. Some modern Jewish interpreters make it, 
indeed, the name of the place so caiied, and put it in 
the dative, rendering ad ki yavo Shiloh, “until,” or 
“even though, they come to Shiloh.” But this does 
violence to the very grammar of the words. Skiloh is 
the nominative, and the verb yavo is in the singular, 
“he shall come.” The Targums translate Shiloh by 
“the King Messiah;” and the Palestine one describes 
Him as “a son of Jehudah.” The Talmud (Sanhedrin) 
takes the same view. So does Abravanel in his com- 
mentary on the text; and that found in the Zohar lays 
down the same doctrine, with the addition that the 
letter i, yod, (the initial of Jehovah,) in the name, indi- 
cates that the Messiah will be a Divine person. The 
name Shiloh signifies “the Maker of Peace.” 

5. Asa Priest, the Messiah is typitied in Aharon, who 
had the title of Koken ha Mashiach, “the Anointed 
Priest.” 

6. As a Prophet, in Moses, Deut. xviii. 15-18. The 
Jewish application of this prediction to the succession of 
prophets at large is utterly opposed to the terms of the 
text, all of them in the singular number. “4 prophet, 
from the midst of thee,” kamoni, “like myse/f, will the 
Lord thy God raise up unto thee: Aim shall ye hear.” 
So also in the Divine promise: “ 4 prophet,” kamoka, 
“like ¢hee will I raise up; and I will put My word in 
his mouth, and 26 shall speak,” &c. But it is also 
written that “among all the prophets that followed 
Moses, no one was like him;” and as the great national 
deliverer, the mediator of an alliance with God, a legis- 


20 GLOSSARY. 


lator who established a dispensation of religion, and as 
the head of the body ecclesiastical, no prophet cculd 
arise like Moses, till He came who is the Wisdom and 
the Word of God. (Johu i. 17, 18; Luke ix. 29-36 ; 
Acts ii. 22.) 

7. Asa King, he is symbolized by the star and the 
sceptre in the prophecy of Balaam, Num. xxiv. 17-24. 
Onkelos: “When a king shall arise from Jacob, and 
the Messiah become great in Israel.” So, too, Eben 
Ezra, who says that many Hebrew commentators agree 
in explaining it of the Messiah. In the great revuit of 
the Jews in Hadrian’s time, their leader, the pretended 
Messiah Barkokab, derived his prestige from that 
assumed name of “the Son of the Star,’ in allusion to 
this very prophecy; fulfilled typically and partially by 
David’s victories over Edom and Moab; but ouly really 
and Divinely in the world-saving victory and blessed 
reign of Him “who is the Root and Offspring of David, 
and the bright and morning Star.” 


III. NAMES OF HEATHEN GODS IN THE 
PENTATEUCH. 


Elohim acherim. Onkelos, Elaha ocharan. Ocot 
érepor. (Exod. xx. 3.) 

Baal or Bahal, Chal. Behel, or, the guttural omitted, 
Bei ; most commonly used with the article, Ha-Baal, to 
distinguish the name of the god from the ordinary term 
baal, ‘a lord,” or “ master.” (Num. נצצ‎ 41; Deut. 
iv. 3.) Baal was the sun-god of the Phenicians, Canaan- 
ites, and Babylonians, and was worshipped as the pro- 
ductive power of nature. The plural Baalim denotes 
either the images of the god, or the various properties 
attributed to him. The name Baal is sometimes put 
not only for the sun, but also for the planet Jupiter, and 


GLOSSARY. 21 


is then joined with Gad, the designation of that star in 
the oriental astronomy. So, too, in the Zabian mythology 
Jupiter takes the name of Bel. 

Ashtoreth (the Astarte of the Greeks) was the femi- 
nine producing power of nature. As the masculine power 
was recognised and adored in the sun, so the moon 
was the symbol of Ashéoreth. The name Ashtoroth 
Karnaim in Gen. xiv. 5, “the two horned dshtoreths,” 
carries evident reference to the moon as she appears 
in the early nights of the month. As Baal is connected 
with the planet Jupiter, so dshtorech, among the Syro- 
Phenicians, had a similar relation to that of Venus. 

Peor, Pehor, or Baal Pehor: UXX., Beehgpeydp : 
worshipped by the Moabites and Midianites with licen- 
tious practices. (Num. xxv. 1-9; Deut. iv. 3.) The Rab- 
bins give au obscene meaning to the name Peor; but 
others,as Gesenius, derive it from an old verb, still retained 
in Ethiopic, signifying to “serve” or “ worship.” 

Chemosh, Kemosh, Xapws, (Num. xxi. 29,) is con- 
sidered to be another name for the idol Pedor. The 
etymology is hopeless. A black star was used as the 
symbol of Chemosh, which seems to give him a connexion 
with the planet Saturn. 

210704, or Ha-Molek, literally “the ruling one,” from 
malak, “to reign;” and so rendered in the Septuagint 
by the appellatives 6 dpywv and 30004608, as well as by 
the retained Hebrew name, with the spelling of Modoy. 
From the similar meaning of the name with that of Baad, 
“a sovereign,” or “ lord,” Molek is regarded as another 
epithet for the same deity,—the Ruler of Existence ; but 
as manifesting his dominion in the destruction of life, 
a phase of character opposite to that of 1700000, the 
Sovereign Producer. Hence the worship of Molek was 
solemnized with fatal rices. The parent surrendered the 
life of his offspring, and burned his own child as a holo- 


22 GLOSSARY. 


caust. (Lev. xviii. 21; xx.1-5; Jer. xix. 5; Ezek. xvi. 
20.) The names of Aalcham and Ifilkom (Amos v. 26; 
1 Kings xi. 5 ; Zeph. i. 5; Acts vii. 43) are variations of 
Molek. In the astro-religious system of the Phcenicians 
the gloomy planet Saturn, “ ste//a 000008, 5 was looked 
upon as his representative. 

Seirim, or Sehirim, “satyrs;” (Lev. xvii. 75) 
literally, “hairy ones,” “goats.” Onkelos and Spriac, 
Sheidin, “demons.” LXX., waracoz, “ vanities.” 

Shedim, “demons.” (Deut. xxxii. 17.) So also 
Onkelos, Septuagint, and Syriac. The Arabic Version 
has Sheateen, “ Satans.” 

Besides these proper or descriptive names of the 
Gentile deities in the Pentateuch, there are several others 
employed as epithets of execration or contempt. 

Elilim, from 6710, “of nought, vain, false, of nothing 
worth.” 

Hebilim, from hebel, “a breath or vapour; some- 
thing light or vain.” (Deut. xxvii. 21.) 

Tocboth, “abominations.” (Deut. xxxil. 16.) Zarim, 
the same. 

Gillulim: (Deut. xxix. 17:) probably from gadad, 
“dung ;” hence the name is rendered in the margin by 
“dungy gods;” Vulgate, sordes. 

Shikutsim, “abominations,” (éid.,) from shakats, 
“to be filthy or loathsome.” 


The visible representation of a god, a material idol, is 
designated in the Pentateuch by 

Pesel, “a graven or carved image ;” (Exod. xx. 4 ;( 
from pasal, “to cut or hew.” Onkelos, ¢sedam, “a 
resemblance.” The most common name in the Tar- 
gums for idols is ¢aavath, or taavan. 

Temunah: (Exod. xx. 4:) Onkelos, demuth, “simi- 


3 Lucan, i, 652. 


GLOSSARY. 23 


litude,” which well represents the meaning of the 
Hebrew. LXX., éuolwpa. 

Semel, “a likeness,” (similitude,) and 1020002, “a 
form or model,”—both in Deut. iv. 16. Onkelos, 
Tsura, “a type;” yAvrros, “a sculpture, or shaped 
form.” 

Matsebah, “a statue,” from Vatsad, “ to stand firmly.” 
(Deut. vil. 5.) Onkelos, Kama. This may be a deno- 
mination not only of an idol in human or other form, 
but also of an anointed stone or pillar of the well known 
class called Betylia. 

Chammanim, “sun images;” Lev. xxvi. 30, where 
Onkelos has chanisnesehun, " your monuments to the 
sun.” “ Delubra, statue solares, soli dicate.’— 
Castet. “Temples of the sun.”—Hzsey Ezra. The 
German Jewish commentators, Mendelssohn, &c., prefer 
“sun columns, or obelisks.” 

Eben maskith, lapis speculationis. Onkelos, eben 
segida, “a stone for adoration ;” LXX., 40008 060770 
* ב‎ conspicuous stone,” a hieroglyphical monument ; ren- 
dered in some texts, “a stone of devices.” (Lev. xxvi. 1.) 

Massekah, ‘‘a molten image,” from 0800, “to melt 
or cast.” Onkelos, mattekah. (Deut. xxvii. 15.) 

Teraphim. (Gen. xxxi. 19.) The obscurity which 
hangs over the true meaning of this word may be judged 
of by the multiplicity of derivations assigned to it. 1. 
That, by a change in the first letter, it is equivalent to 
Seraphim, and may denote images of bright or burnished 
brass. 2. That it comes from ¢seraph, “to melt;” 
(whence ¢soreph, “a goldsmith ;”) and signifies “ molten 
images.” 3. It comes from rapha, “to heal,” and 
describes talismans used as charms for curing or avert- 
ing diseases. 4. From ¢araph, (in Hiphil,) “to feed, 
nourish” (like the Greek tpédew). The Teraphim, in 
this view, were some kind of objects, the presence of 


24 GLOSSARY. 


which in a house was thought to insure support and 
plenty. 5. Some Rabbins make it a term of contempt, 
from turaph, “ shamefulness ;” and others, 6. With the 
same idea, derive it from raphain, “weak things,” like 
the dead. 7. Another opinion assigns it to the Syriac 
teraph, “to ask of, inquire;” in which respect the 
Teraphim were domestic oracles. The only certainty is, 
that they were household idols, like the dares and 
penates. Onkelos renders the word by ¢selimanaya, 
“images;” the Septuagint, 660 ; and the Persic 
translator, by “ astrolabes.” 


The priesthood of these heathen deities are called in 
the Hebrew Bible by the name Aemarim ; from kamar, 
“to burn ;” Chald., kvmara. In addition to the priests 
of the heathen altar, we read in the Pentateuch and 
elsewhere of a class or classes of hierophants whose pro- 
fession lay among the mystical rites which were sup- 
posed to open to mortals an intercourse with the spiritual 
world. They are noticed under the following names :— 

Mekashephim. (Deut. xvii. 10.) dekasheph, “a 
magician or sorcerer;” from 2087007, originally, “ to 
offer prayer,” but degenerated to idolatrous incantations. 
Onkelos renders the noun by charash ; and the Septua- 
gint, 0000608. Such as used herbs and drugs, the 
blood of victims and the bones of the dead, for their 
operations, burning them on an altar or tripod. So the 
magicians, Exod. vil. 11, did their wonders, by their 
lehatim, “flames.” (Rashi; Maimonides; Eben Ezra; 
who derive the word from 70008 “to burn;” while 
others make it come from dat, “to hide or conceal,” 
and render dehatim by “their occult artifices.” Onkelos : 
belachashehun, “ by their incantations.’’) 

Chartumim, (from cheret, “an engraving tool, an 
iron pen, עס‎ style,”) “interpreters of hieroglyphics,” 


GLOSSARY. 25 


‘epoypaupareis. More generally, “ interpreters of 
dreams, casters of nativities, astrologers.” (Exod. vii. 11.) 

Hakamim, or Chakamtin, “ sages; men of science ;” 
from chakam, “to be skilful.” The same class of per- 
sons as the Chartumim. LXX.,“ sophists.” The name 
was given to the physicians and scientific attendants in 
the royal court, like the Arabian Zakims. (Exod. vii. 11.) 

Fiddeonim, from yada, “to know:” “wise men, 
wizards, soothsayers.” (Deut. xviii. 11; Lev. xix. 31; 
Exod. xxii. 18.) 

Wenachashin, “ augurs;” from the root nackash, 
indicating the use of serpents in some manner in their 
operations. So the verb nachash in Pihel is “ to divine 
or augur.” (Deut. xviii, 10.) 

ilieonen, “an augur who divines by the drift of 
clouds, the flight of birds, 80." (Deut. xviii. 10.) 

Doresh el hammethim, “a necromancer, an inquirer 
of or from the dead.” Deut. xviii. 11: "Emepwrdv 
TOUS vExpous. 

Kosem Kesamim, “a diviner by divination,” from 
kasam, “to divine ;” one who made auguries by Jots ; 
Havrevopevos wavreiav, (Deut. xviii. 10.) 

Chober chaber, “a user of spells ;” (Deut. xviii. 11 ;) 
from 60005, “to bind together;” one who practised 
magic by knotted things or the conjunction of words. 
Compare Vira, Eel. viii. 77. 

Shoel ob, “a consulter with evil spirits.” (Deut. xvii. 
11.) 06 or Aud is “a bottle or bag,” primarily ; also, “the 
stomach ; 7 yet is applied to a necromancer, who professes 
to call up the dead for consultation. From the primary 
meaning of the term the 22067 06 has been thought to bea 
mere ventriloquist, simulating the voice of an unseen 
being supposed to be present. TheGreek rendering of 0d is 
“a Pythonist.” I believe aué is Coptic for “a serpent.” 

There is a significant epithet used several times in the 

0 


2 


26 GLOSSARY. 


Targums on the Pentateuch, in reference to many of the 
artists mentioned above; that of Jadiz, “ impostors.” 


IV. THE SACRED PLACE. 


Wuiute the flame of the Shekinah diffused its beams 
over the eastern gate of Eden, the children of Adam 
had the visible token that God had not forsaken the 
earth, nor left them to the utter desolation of apostasy ; 
and when, in after days, the Sanctuary arose at His 
bidding in the wilderness, the same token of mercy res 
appeared in the Place where His law was enshrined, 
His Name revealed, and His purposes of mercy set forth 
in types and foreshadows of the great Redemption, 
whose blessings are to become the heritage of all the 
families of the earth at the full unfoldment of His 
kingdom, when the “ great voice out of heaven ” will be 
heard, saying, “ Behold, the Tabernacle of God is with 
men, and He will dwell with them, and they shall be 
His people, and God Himself shall be with them and be 
their God.” 

I. Taz צמסזו‎ Tasernacre, though the work of 
man’s hands, was made according to a Divinely revealed 
archetype, in Hebrew a ¢abenith, (from the root danah, 
“to build,”) a model for building, an exemplar, disclosed 
to the eyes of Moses in the mount. (Exod. xxv. 40.) 
For ¢abenith Onkelos has demuth, “likeness,” and the 
Septuagint ¢ypos. 

The inaterials were supplied by the voluntary contri- 
butions of the people, and constituted a national obla- 
tion, ¢erwmak, “a thing uplifted, and offered to God:” 
Onkelos, aphrashutha, “a separation,” i.e., of those 
portions of their property for the sacred purpose. 

11. GENERAL NaMES FOR THE TABERNACLE. 1. 4 
desh, or Kadash, “the Holy.” 2. Iikdash, “ sanctu- 
ary.” 8, Ohel, “the tent ;” LXX., cxnvy. 4. Mishkan, 


GLOSSARY. 27 


“the dwelling ;” Chal., mashkena, from shakan, “to 
dwell.” 5. Ohel ha Eduth ; Targ., MJashkan zimna, 
“the Tabernacle of ordinance, or appointment ;” from 
Chal., zeman, “ paravit, preparavit, destinavit ;” Syriac, 
Mashkan zabno ; LXX., Xenvyn tod waptupiov. 6. Ohel 
Aloed, “the Tabernacle of meeting,” conventus. 1. Ha 
Beth, “the House.” 8. Mishkan Kelod Yehovah, 
“the Dwelling of the Glory of the Lord.” 

111. Terus RELATING TO THE FORM OF THE TaBER- 
NACLE. 

1. The Cotrt,4* Chatsar ha mishkan ; Chal., Darath 
mashkena ; avd}, atrium; Syr., Dorotho ; the enclosure 
or area in which the Tabernacle stood. It was open to 
the sky; the surroundings were formed by wooden 
pillars, audim, orvdou, with silver-plated capitals, roshim, 
based in sockets, adonim, “ supporters,” Chal., samka, 
of brass. To these columns were appended silver hooks, 
vavim, through which passed the silver rods, chashukim, 
overspread with the hangings, kelahim, Chal., seradin, 
iotia, curtains of shesk mashezor, “ fine twined linen,” 
fastened to the ground by yetudoth, “pins of brass.” 
The length of the court was one hundred cubits, about 
fifty-eight yards, with twenty pillars on each side; the 
breadth, fifty cubits, with ten pillars; the height, five 
cubits. At the east end was the gate of the court, shaar 
ha chatser ; Chal., tera-daretha; mvdAn THs 006. It 
had four columns, over which was spread a hanging, 
inasak, Chal., perasa, caduppa, of twenty cubits, wrought 
with threads of blue, purple, scarlet, and white. 

2. The TaBeRNAc.e itself stood somewhat beyond the 
middle of the court ; in form, oblong; length from east 
to west, thirty cubits; breadth from north to south, ten 
cubits; and height, ten cubits. 

The walls were constructed of boards, kerashim, Chal., 


+ See Exodus rixvi., ke. 


c 2 


28 GLOSSARY. 


dapaya, of the acacia tree, ets shittim,® Evkov agnor, 
“incorruptible wood,” forty-eight in number; twenty 
on the north, twenty on the south side, six on the west, 
with one additional at two of the corners. The boards 
were ten cubits in length, a cubit and a half broad, and 
a half cubit thick. They were plated with gold. They 
stood upright, secured to the earth by having each two 
tenons, yadotd, fastening into two sharp-poiuted silver 
adonim or “ supporters,” which entered the surface of the 
eround. The boards were united by bars, or poles, 
herichim, running transversely through golden rings, 
tebaoth, fastened on the outside of the boards. On the 
eastern end of the tabernacle there were no boards. Thie 
east end was covered with a veil or hanging, masak, 
Sept., ,עס ד )חי‎ of blue, red, crimson, and twined 
linen, embroidered; a tapestry of ten cubits square, 
suspended on five columns of gold-coated acacia wood, 
with brasen supporters. 

Over this outward framework there were four integu- 
ments. (1.) The interior sides were covered by ten 
curtains, yerioth, Onkelos, yeritan, Sept., avrataz, each 
twenty-eight cubits long and four cubits broad; the 
niaterial, fine twined byssus, shesh mashezor, with in- 
wrought figures of cherubim in blue, purple, and scarlet. 
These curtains were joined with each other by fifty 
purple loops, 70/0077, Onkelos, anudin, Sept., dyxvdau, 
and fifty golden hooks, keresim, Onk., phurephin. This 
interior covering has the name of Ha IWishkkan, “ the 
Tabernacle.” (2.) The second, called “the Tent,” 
Ohel, Chal., Pherasa, consisted of curtains woven of 
goats’ hair, yerioth izzim, spread over the outside of the 
first curtains. ('3.) Over this was a third covering, of 


+ A tree of the genus Acacia; either the Acacia gummifera or the J. 
Seya/; both of which have abounded in the valleys of the Arabian 
wilderness, 


GLOSSARY. 29 


rams’ skins dyed red, oroth eilim meaddamim ; Onkelos, 
mashkey dedikrey mesamkey, “skins of rams reddened ;” 
and, (4.) The whole was surmounted by a fourth defence, 
composed of “ badgers’ skins,” oroth techashim ;° Onke- 
los, mashhey de-sasgona, “skins of purple.” These 
last two integuments of the Tabernacle have the common 
name of ha mikeseh, “the covering.” 

3. The mntertor of the structure consisted of two 
compartments, Laving a different relative degree of 
sacredness,—the Holy, and the Most Holy. The first 
has the name of Ha Kodesh, “the 11019," “the Sanctu- 
ary;” Onkelos, udesha; Sept., ra 606, (in the New 
Testament, cxnvn ,הדסק חי‎ Heb. ix. 2.) It was twenty 
cubits long and ten cubits high. The second, Kodesh 
ha kadashin, “the Holy of Holies,” Onk., Kodesh kud- 
shaya, ayia Tov dylwv, was a perfect square, of ten 
cubits in length, breadth, and height. It was divided 
and concealed from the sanctuary by a magnificent veil or 
curtain, ha paroketh, Onk., paruktha, Sept.,xataréracpa, 
fabricated in blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, 
with cherubic figures, and suspended on four columns 
overlaid with gold. 

Apparatts oF THE TaBeRNacis. The sacred‏ .טך 
building itself stood, not exactly in the middle of the‏ 
court, but twenty cubits distant from the northern,‏ 
southern, and western sides of it; so that the larger‏ 
space of fifty cubits might lie between the gate of the‏ 
eourt on the east, and the first veil or door of the‏ 
tabernacle.‏ 

In this larger space of the Court stood, 

1. The Altar of Burnt Sacrifice, 07300000 ha olah; 
Chal., madbecha de-altha; Sept., @vovaaryptov ; three 
cubits high, and five in length and breadth, formed of 


> What animal was called by this name is perfectly uncertain: 
whether the badzer, the jackal, or the seal. 


0 GLOSSARY. 


boards, Zuchoth, of acacia, and covered with brass. 
Being portable, it was hollow ; but, when stationary for 
service, was filled with earth to the upper rim. The 
four corners projected upwards, like horns, karnoth, Ta 
xépata, to which the living animal might be bound, 
(Psalm. cxviii. 27,) and serving also to prevent the 
dead carcase from falling off. A border, or ledge, kar- 
kod, went round the top; with which was connected a 
network of brass, resheth nechosheth, to receive frag- 
ments of fuel, &c., which fell away from the burning 
mass, At the four corners strong rings, fadaoth, were 
fixed, through which went the staves employed for the 
carriage of the altar. 

The utensils for the work done at the altar were, 
shovels, yayim, for collecting the ashes; pots, siroth, 
for carrying them away; bowls, or basins, mizrakoth, 
for receiving the blood which was to be sprinkled; 
forks, or tongs, miz/agoth, for manipulating the parts of 
the sacrifice in the fire; and brasen shovels, machtoth, 
“ fire-pans.” 

2. The Laver, kiyor, Chal., kiyora, XoutHp, a large 
vase, probably semicircular, standing on a ken, or 
basis. This receptacle for the water needed by the 
priests for their ablutions was founded with the finest 
brass, (Mxod. xxxviil. $,) such as ancient mirrors were 
made of, and admitted of a fine polish, which rendered 
the surface of the laver available as a mirror in which 
the priests could see their own resemblance. It stood 
between the altar and the curtain of the sanctuary. 

Within the Holy Place were, 

1. The Candeiabrum, menorak, from ner, “a 
hight;” Onkelos, menartha ; % Xvyvia: the material, 
pure gold; in weight a talent. From its base, yerek, 
rose a perpendicular shatt or stem, 26067, from which 
projected six carved branches, 00/00, three on each 


GLOSSARY, 1 


side, reaching in height to the top of the stem. The 
candelabrum had a height of three cubits, and a 
breadth from the extremities of the opposite branches of 
two cubits. On the six branches and on the top of the 
shaft were lamps, seven in all, supplied every evening 
with olive oil. Three, or, according to others, one 
lamp, ever burned; the rest were lighted at evening, 
and extinguished in the morning. The branches were 
adorned with the forms of almond and pomegranate 
flowers, and apples, or some ornament of a spherical 
shape. ‘The utensils were, the snuffers, malkachim, and 
the fire-pans, machtoth. The candelabrum stood within 
the south-western side of the sanctuary. 

2. The Table, shulchan, Onk., phatora, Sept., 
Tpdmeta, made of acacia, a cubit and a half high, two 
cubits long, and one broad; the whole plated with 
gold. The top of the table was surrounded with a 
border (zer) of gold; and below the top, or leaf, was a 
wooden band, misgereth, about four inches broad, with 
a border. Four tabaoth 20000, or “rings of gold,” 
were fastened to the legs, for the transport of the table. 
It stood in the sanctuary on the north side. 

Upon this table were placed twelve unleavened cakes, 
chaloth, in two rows, six in each. Over the cakes 
incense was burned, probably in a censer, to signify 
that they were consecrated, offered and set before God. 
Hence the name lechem ha panaim, “bread of the 
Presence.” They were renewed every Sabbath, and 
always on the table, 7600600 tamil, “the perpetual 
bread.” They are sometimes called /echem le azkarah, 
Chal., Zechem le adkara, “the bread of memorial;” a 
token of gratitude for daily bread, and an expression of 
trust in the God of Providence. They were a memorial 
furnished by the people, and therefore twelve loaves, 
after the number of the tribes. 


32 GLOSSARY. 


The table was provided with a service of utensils: 
kearoth, “ dishes,” acetajula, in which the bread was 
brought and taken away; bowls, kaphoth, for the 
frankincense burned over the bread; kesoth and mena- 
kioth, “cans”? and “cups” for libations connected 
with the burning of the frankincense ; all of gold. 

8. The Altar of Incense, 707206000 mnikter ketoreth ; 
Onkelos, midbecha le-aktera alohi ketorath busemin, 
“the altar on which to burn sweet 1001156 : so also 
mizbeach ha penimi, “the inner altar,” because within 
the sanctuary. The Septuagiut terms it @vovacrijpiov 
Cupidpatos; the Syriac, madebcho de inaatar etro, 
“the altar fuming perfume.’ It was two cubits high 
and one in length and breadth, constructed of acacia 
wood, plated with pure gold; 07200060 ha 20060, “the 
golden altar.” It had a wreath, 26 and karnoth, or 
“horns,” of the same. 

The Incense, keforeth, was compounded of four 
ingredients: (1.) NatapA, i. e., storax; (2.) Sheheleth, 
2. 6.0 onycha; (3.) Chelbenah samim, sweet galbanum ; 
(4.) Lebonah zaka, “pure frankincense.” Onkelos: 
(1.) Natupha; (2.) Tuphera; (3.) Chelbentha busesin ; 
)+.( Lebuntha dakyetha. The Peschito Syriac the 
same. Septuagint: (1.) 2-00 ; (2.) “Ovvya; (3.) 
XarBavy jdvopod; (4.) AiBavos diagarjs. These, it 
should be added, were mixed with salt; Exod. xxx. 35, 
memullach, “salted ;” where Onkelos reads mearah, 
mixed,” 7. ¢., with salt, as the emblem of incorrupt- 
ness, 

Other ingredients were subsequently added in the 
temple practice. Maimonides enumerates myrrh, cas- 
sia, spikenard, saflron, costus, cinnamon, sweet bark, 
salt, amber, and a eotalinatilite root or herb he calls 
maatath asam, “the smoke-raiser.” (Keley ha - 3 

, sect. 3.) Such multiplications were unwarrantable 


GLOSSARY. 33 


but the Rabbins defend them by a tradition that they 
were ordained to Moses on Mount Sinai. 

Incense was offered, at daybreak, (yoma iti., 1, 5,) 
and after the evening sacrifice. It was the emblem of 
acceptable worship, and especially of prayer which 
presses heavenward. (Psalm cxli. 2.) 

In burning incense the priest used a censer, machtah, 
(from chathah, “to take fire or coals” from hearth or 
altar,) Chal., machtitha, LXX., wupetov, “a burner,” 
Ovicxn, Ovptatnovov, “thurible for incense;” a 
vessel of metal; form not certainly known. In the 
daily service it was carried by the priest into the holy 
place and set upon the golden altar, and was probably 
shaped like a chalice, with a base for standing upon the 
altar. But the censer which the high priest held in his 
hand on the day of atonement must have been fur- 
nished with a chain or handle. The censer used in the 
daily service was of brass; that carried by the high 
priest within the veil was of gold. 

Beyond the veil, in the Holy of Holies, stood the em- 
blematic Throne of God; that is to say, the Ark and 
Mercy-seat, overshadowed by the wings of the cherubim. 

1. The Ark, aon, Chal., arona; termed also avon 
ha eduth, “the ark of the testimony,” 6090708 Tov pap- 
cupiov; and aron ha berith, “ the ark of the covenant, 
xusatos THs 6060068 ; was an oblong coffer, or chest, 
made of acacia wood, and plated with gold within and with- 
out, with an exterior border round the top, of pure gold. 
The length was two cubits and a half, the breadth one ceubit 
aud a half, and the height the same as the breadth. Like 
the two altars, it had rings with staves for transportation. 

Within the ark were deposited the 506062 7 
abanim, the “two tables of stone,” inscribed with the 
eduih, or “testimony” of the moral law. Before it 
stood the urn of manna, and the blossomed rod of 


-. 


Co 


34 GLOSSARY. 


Aharon, and on one side the manuscript of the law. 
(Deut. xxxi. 26.) 

2. The Mercy-Seat. In some commentaries and 
books on the Jewish ritual the mercy-seat is described 
as being “the lid of the ark;” but that is a mistake. 
The ark had its own lid, of acacia wood plated with 
gold; but in the Divine directory, Exod. xxv. 17, the 
mercy-seat is spoken of as an object distinct from the 
atk, and formed of gold only. The lid covered the 
ark; but the mercy-seat covered the lid; verse 21, 
“Thou shalt put the mercy-seat,” ₪1 ha-aron inilinaelah, 
“ upon the ark aBove.” So, on the day of atonement, 
the hig priest is directed to sprinkle the blood, not on 
the surface of the lid of the ark, but upon the front of 
the mercy-seat toward the east. In size, it was pre- 
cisely of the same length and breadth as the ark, so as 
to fit within the rim which surrounded the lid, and, 
according to the Talmud, (suecah 5,) was a hand- 
breadth in thickness. 

The name by which it is commonly designated is Za- 
happoreth, Chaldee, happurtha, Sept., (Aaotypiov, “ the 
propitiatory.” The Hebrew name comes from kaphar, 
“to cover;” in Pihel, “to atone for,” aud “to forgive.” 
In the Hebrew Bible forgiveness is called “ the covering 
of sin.” (Psalm xxxil. 1.) The mercy-seat is the place 
of meeting between a reconciled God and redeemed 
man. (Exod. xxv. 22; Hebrews iv. 16; Num. vii. $9.) 

3. United with, and fabricated of the same massive 
gold as, the mercy-seat, were two symbolical figures 
called Aerudim, Chal., Kerubata; one at each end, 
standing in a bending attitude, as if looking into the 
ark. Everything relating to these objects is veiled in 
mystery. No intimation is given about their forms or 
lineaments, except that their wings overspread the 
mercy-seat. In the more graphic descriptions of the 


GLOSSARY, 55 


Cherubim seen by Ezechiel, (chap. i. and x.,) and by St. 
John, (Rev. iv.,) they are represented with the four 
faces of the ox, the lion, the eagle, and the man; but 
from Exod, xxv. 20 it may be inferred that those upon 
the ark had only the human visage; which seems to 
authorize the idea of Eben Bzra, that they had the 
appearance of “winged men.” Among the opinions 
about the meaning of these mystic forms, one is, that 
they were emblems of the Divine Presence; and 
another, that they set forth a representation of redeemed 
humanity. The name Cherud has been variously derived. 
Some consider the word the same as the Hebrew 42 70d, 
“like the mighty ;” some think it to be the Chaldee 
hi radia, “like a young man;” others, the Syriac 
kerud, ‘ great or powerful.” 

4, “The King eternal, immortal, invisible, whom no 
man hath seen, or can see,” was mercifully pleased, 
under both the patriarchal and Mosaic dispensations, 
to make His Presence known by a visible splendour, an 
intense light, or efiulgence, to which is given the name 
of Ha-kebod Yehovah, “the Glory of the Lord;” 
Chaldee, Fekara da Yeya; Sept., doa Kupiov; Syr., 
Shubcho da-morio. (Lev. ix. 23.) Such a Theophany 
was given in the Holy of Holies, above the ark, between 
the cherubim. (Psalm Ixxx. 1; 1 Sam. iv. 4; Exod. 
xxv. 22.) So did the Divine Being condescend to 
reveal His purpose to 0601 in the sanctuary: and on 
His account the name of The Shekinah is applied to 
the visual glory. The word shekinah does not, indeed, 
occur in the Hebrew Bible, but is used by the Jewish 
theologians, as a derivative from the biblical word 
shakan, “to dwell,” to denote the presence and inhabit- 
ation of the God of Israel in the ‘Tabernacle, and sub- 
sequently in the Temple. The Targumist frequently 
uses the word, but under the form of shekiutha. 


36 GLOSSARY. 


That the Tabernacle, as a whole, had a symbolical 
character, has been, with but few exceptions, the con- 
stant belief both of Jews and Christians. The sacred 
structure was an outward sign of the presence of God 
among His people, a shrine for His law; a centre of 
communication with Himself in His own way of appoint- 
ment. In this point of view the Taberuacie may be 
called a Theocratic Sacrament. But, from strong inti- 
mations in the New Testament Scriptures, we learn to 
contemplate it also as a typical adumbration of the 
Incarnate Person and mediatorial work of Him who is 
the end of the law for righteousness unto every one who 
believeth; of the Word, who was made flesh and 
éoxnvacey ev nuty, “tabernacled among us, aud we 
beheld His g/ory.” (John i. 14.) When this principle 
is accepted, we find all the Tabernacle ritual brighten 
into a meaning worthy of its Divine Author. In the 
laver, with its cleansing element, the perpetual ligiit of 
the golden candelabrum, the sacred bread, the altar 
flaming with sacrifice, the sprinkled blood, the incense 
which betokened availing intercession, and the High 
Priest who offered it, we see “ the shadows of the good 
things to come,” the passing emblems of what the 
Gospel unfolds to us in the immutable realities of a 
redemption through which all men may draw near unto 


God. 


Note. Beside the holy Tabernacle, we read of another, 
called the ohed moed, “the tent of meeting: ” (Exod. 
xxx. 7:) a large tent where Moses gave audience to 
the people in cases requiring instruction: Chal., mish- 
kan beth ulphano, “the tabernacle of the house of 
instruction.” 


GLOSSARY. 37 


V. SACRED PERSONS. 


PRIESTHOOD, kehunnah, (Exod. xl. 15,) in Chaldee, 
kuhaauth, (epateia, “the office of a priest;” kuhen, 
60608. The verb Kahan is only used in the derivative, 
and does not occur in its radical form in the Hebrew 
Bible. Gesenius says that “in Arabic it denotes to 
prophesy, to foretell, as a soothsayer; aud among the 
heathen Arabs the substantive bore that signification ; 
also that of a mediator, or middle person who interposed 
in any business; which seems to be its radical meaning, 
as prophets and priests were regarded as mediators 
between men and the Deity. In the earliest families of 
the race of Shem, the offices of priest and prophet were 
undoubtedly united, so that the word originally denoted 
both; and at last the Hebrew idiom kept one part of 
the idea, and the Arabic another.’”’? 

In one respect the entire Hebrew people might have 
been considered a sacerdotal race, as being chosen and 
set apart from the Gentile world; the visible church of 
the only God, and His worshippers and witnesses, to 
whom belonged the glory and the adoption, the covenant 
and the service of God; and to whom were intrusted, 
for the world’s future benefit, the oracles of Divine 
revelation. On this account they had the designation 
of kedoshim, “consecrated ones,” called of God to be 
manleketh kohanim, “a kingdom of priests.” (Exod. 
xix. 6.) But the official priesthood, the ministration of 
the altar, was restricted to the family of Aharon of the 
tribe of Levi, Leviyzm. 

All the men of that tribe had an ecclesiastical cha- 
racter, and formed, in a subsidiary manner, a sacerdotal 
body, intrusted with a variety of offices connected with 


+ The heathen priests are called in the Bible by the name of kumarim. 


38 GLOSSARY. 


the services of the altar, and the religious interests of 
the people. They entered on those duties at the age of 
thirty, (in the later temple times at twenty,) and were 
superannuated when fifty years old. At twenty-five 
they appear to have begun their novitiate or probation : 
(Num. viii. 24, 25:) at thirty they were regularly 
inducted, by ablution, sacrifice, and the semicha, or 
imposition of hands, (Num. viil. 5-22.) 

They had the charge of the Tabernacle and its con- 
tents. In the nomadic years, prior to the settlement in 
Canaan, the carriage of its several parts from one station 
to another fell to their care. They superintended the 
supplies for the altar, 80. and were stewards of the 
sacerdotal revenues. They attended the priests at the 
altar, and sometimes slew the victims; and in the 
temple services performed the office of choristers. In 
addition to these functions they discharged the duties of 
teachers, and instructed the people in the knowledge and 
duties of religion. 

Instead of a territorial district in the land of Canaan, 
like the other tribes, that of Levi had a compensation, 
in the grant of forty-eight cities situated in various 
parts of the country, the tithes of the land, and remune- 
rative gifts of the people. 

Connected with the service of the Tabernacle there 
was a class of inferior servitors who were 05 
They had the name of Nethinim, “ given ones;” (from 
nathan, “to give;”) men granted to the Levites as 
helpers, as the Levites themselves had been granted to 
Aharon and his sons for helpers; (Num. viii. 19 ;( 
Onkelos, Jlesirim, from masar, “to deliver over. On 
the temple Nethinim see Ezra viii. 20, where for 
Nethinim the Peshito reads Vehibin, “given ones.” 

The priests had the same term of service as the 
Levites. They were consecrated to their office by—a, 


GLOSSARY. 389 


Washing. (Exod. xxix. 4.) 3. Sacrifice. (Verses 10-12.) 
0. The application of the sacrificial blood and the anoint- 
ing oil to their persons and vestments. (Exod. xxix. 20, 
21.) The blood was applied to their ears, hands, and feet, 
to remind them to hear, to act, and to walk, or conduct 
themselves, according to the word of God. d. By 
placing certain portions of the offering upon their hands. 
(Exod. xxix. 22-25.) This act was called the midZuim, 
“the consecration,” literally “the filling,’ i.e, the 
hands of the priest with the sanctified portions. e. By 
investing them with the sacerdotal vestments, digdey 
kodesh, “the garments of holiness:” viz., 1. A cotton 
or linen garment reaching from the loins to the knees, 
miknese-bad. 2. A coat or tunic of linen, hetoneth- 
shesh, reaching to the ankles. 3. A girdle, adnet, a 
handbreath wide, ornamented with flowers in purple, 
blue, and scarlet, worn twice round the waist, the ends 
hanging down to the ankles, or thrown over the left 
shoulder. 4. A linen mitre, or cap, 0772000, from 
gabia, “calyx,” which gives perhaps the idea of its form ; 
LXX., «idapis. The priests wore no sandals when 
engaged in the Tabernacle. 

They took their various duties there by allotment. 

1. In the court: a. To attend to the fire on the 
altar. (Lev. vi. 13.) 4. To sacrifice the victim. ¢. To 
sprinkle the blood. (Lev. 1. 5-11.) d. To wave the 
offering. (Lev. xiv. 24.) e. To burn what was to be 
consumed. (Lev. ii. 2.) .£ To cleanse the altar from 
ashes, &c. (Lev. vi. 9-11.) 

2. In the holy place: 2. To fill the seven lamps 
with oil. 4. To burn incense morn and even. (Luke i. 
9.) | 6. To change the shew-bread. 

3. Besides these they had various duties relating to 
the religious, domestic, and national affairs of the 
people. a. To pronounce between persons and things 


4.0 GLOSSARY. 


as ceremonially clean or unclean. (Lev. xiii. 14; Luke 
xvii, 14.) 4, To bind or release from vows, as the 
Nazirite. (Num. vi.) ¢. To judge in cases of alleged 
adultery. (Num. v.) 8. To teach the people the 
law. (Lev. x. 11; Mal. ii. 7.) 6. To take charge of the 
consecrated gifts. To sound the silver trumpets at fes- 
tivals. (Num. x. 2, 8.) g. To attend the army in time 
of war. (Num. x. 9.) 

Believers in the New Testament are taught to regard 
the Mosaic priesthood, corporately, as a typical repre- 
sentation of a higher one, that of Jesus Christ. In the 
acts performed by them at the altar and in the Holy 
Place were foreshadowed the real and effectual work ot 
His mediation who is at once thie altar, the victim, and 
the priest. But it was in the person of the 11161 Priest 
that this Divine idea received its fullest typical develop- 
ment. In the fulfilment of his solemn offices this 
minister of the tabernacle made with hands became the 
impersonation of “our Great High Priest, the Minister 
of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle, which the 
Lord hath pitched, and not man; who, not by the blood 
of goats and calves, but by His own blood hath entered 
into the Holy Place, having obtained eternal redemption 
for us.” (Heb. viii. and ix.) With this typical reference 
the Hebrew pontiif bears the name rot only of kohen ha 
rosh, aud kohen ha gadol, but of צעעסא‎ HA Masutacu. 

The first of the Levitical race who was invested with 
this surpassing dignity was Aharon; the last was 
Phannias ben Samuel, who perished at the destruction 
of Jerusalem. Legitimately the successor of Alaron 
was to be of his own lineage, the eldest son having the 
first or hereditary right; but this order was in the last 
times not unfrequently infringed. 

1. The consecration of the high priest was performed 
with the same ceremonies as those observed at that of 


GLOSSARY. 4] 


the common priests, with the difference that he was first 
clothed in his robes, and the sacred oil was poured upon 
his head. Hence he is called ha kohen ha HMashiach, 
“the anointed priest.” 

[The material of the holy consecrating oil—shemen 
mishchath kodesh, Onkelos, meshach rebuth kudesha—was 
a compound of—a. Pure myrrh, war deror; Onk., 
mera dakia; opopva éxrextH. 0. Sweet cinnamon, 
kinueman besem, xivvayov 606066. ec. Calamus, keneh 
besein, 0.6008 evddns, or 0060071608. d. Cassia, 
kidda, Onk., ketsiatha, 1008. e. Olive oil, shemen zayith, 
Ouk., meshach zetha, édavov 66 édaiwv :—in the pro- 
portions given in Exod. xxx. 28. It was used exclu- 
sively ior the anointing rite, and was emblematic of the 
gifts and graces of the Holy Spirit.] 

2. The vestments of the high priest, Zigdey hodesh, 
Onk., /ebushey kudesha, גסדס‎ aylast, consisted of two 
sets of robes: the one of simple white linen, digdey ha- 
bad, Onk., lebushey butsa, tunic, girdle, and mitre; the 
white colour beiug symbolical of purity. (Rev. xix. 8.) 
In this dress he officiated in the former part of the Day 
of Atonement. (Lev. xvi. 23.) The other set of 
robes were distinguished for their magnificence, digdey 
20000, “golden garments,” digdey le-kabod u-le-tipha- 
reth, “ vestments of glory and of beauty.” 

(1.) The meiZ, Chal., meida, a robe of azure colour, 
vaxivGos, the emblem of what is heavenly, serene, and 
pure ; worn over the white vesture, (ke¢oneth tashdets,) 
it combined the idea of purity and heavenly elevation. 
This flowing mantle was embroidered with pomegranates, 
rimmouim, probably both the flowers and the fruit; they 
are considered emblematically to denote the 2006 of God ; 
and between the pomegranates small bells of gold, whose 
musical tones were heard as the high priest walked within 
the sanctuary. (Psalm Ixxxix. 15.) 


42 GLOSSARY. 


(2.) The ephod ; (from aphad, “to bind, or gird on; "( 
a short vest, érwpis, Vulg., superhumerale ; woven, of 
gold, blue, 76000000, red, argaman, crimson, tolaath 
sheni,® and fine twined linen, shesh mashezar ;° material 
and colours identical with those employed in the linings 
and veil of the tabernacle, and no doubt with a similar 
ideal meaning. While blue denotes the colour of the 
heavens, and white is that of innocence and sanctity, 
crimson, which fire and blood have in common, is thought 
to symbolize life; and red, to stand for dignity, majesty, 
and royal power. The ephod was clasped on the shoulder- 
pieces of the robe by two large onyx stones set in gold, 
on which were engraven the names of the twelve tribes ; 
the high priest being thus designated the Representative 
of the whole Israelitish people. The ephod was con- 
fined at the extremity by a girdle or band composed of 
the same materials and colours. 

(3.) Upon the bosom of the ephod was the breastplate, 
choshen ha mishpat ; Onkelos, choshen dina, “ the 
instrument of judgment, or decision;” Sept., Aovetov 
עד‎ xpicew; Vulgate, rationale ; Syriac, phariso dedino, 
“the thorax of judgment.” It was a parallelogram of 
two spans in length and one in breadth, but doubled or 
folded so as to have a breadth and length of one span, 
or about ten inches: the material the same as the ephod, 
but on the external front were inset four rows of precious 
stones, three in a row. 1. Sardius, topaz, carbuncle, 
.וג‎ Emerald, sapphire, diamond. iii. Ligure, agate, 
amethyst. ivy. Beryl, onyx, jasper.t On these twelve 
stones were engraved the names of the tribes, so that 


8 Vermilion. Tolaath ha-sheni, from 707061, a worm or insect used 
for dyeing, and the Arab. sheney, “to shine.” Others derive it from 
the Hebrew sheney, “two,” i. ¢., twice dyed. 

5 Shesh, “linen; mashezar, “twined.” 

1 ך‎ give the names of the jewels asin the common version. The 
reader is referred to the note at p. 537 of our translation of the Pales- 


GLOSSARY. 43 


the high priest bare them on his heart when he went in 
to appear before God. The breastplate was fastened to 
the ephod by golden cords inserted into golden rings on 
its upper corners, running into the sockets of the two 
onyx stones on the shoulders, and by rings at the two 
inferior corners, through which ran a blue ribbon. By 
these things the breastplate was bound inseparably to 
the ephod. 

(4.) On his head the high priest wore a turban, 
mitsnepheth, from teanaph, “to wind or wrap round ; ” 
LXX., שדוג‎ ; upon which was fastened by blue ribbons 
a plate or diadem of gold, with the engraved inscription, 
Kovrsu La YEHovau, “ HoLtNess unto THE Lozp.” 

(5.) Connected, though to us in some uncertain way, 
with the breastplate, were the Urim and Thummim, the 
means or instruments of decision or judgment, in doubt- 
ful matters of importance to the public interests of the 
nation. Crim is the plural form of the noun אוּר‎ w7, “ fire, 
or light,” and Zwmmim the plural of tn thom, or td, 
“fulness or completion, integrity, uprightness, truth,” 
from tamam, “to be complete, or in full number, to be 
perfect.” The ordinary rendering of Urim and Thum- 
mim is, “Lights and Perfections.” Onkelos merely 
Aramaizes the terms, Uraia ve-tummaia. The LXX. 
give them by tiv dy Awow Kal עד‎ adnecay, “ manifes- 
tation and truth ; the other Greek versions by Aquila, 
Symmachus, and Theodotion, by ד‎ dhaticpwovs Kat 
Tas Tede.oTnTas, “ illuminations and perfections ; ” the 
Syriac, by zahiro ve shalmo, “ resplendence and com- 
pletion ;” the Samaritan version, by “elucidations and 
certainties;” and the Vulgate, by doctrinam et veritatem ; 
the Arabic, by “holiness and truth.’”? 


tinian Targum on Exodus, for a tabular view of the textual variations in 


their names. 
2 The German translators render the terms variously: LuTHFR, 
Licht und Recht; so MicwaELts, א גזנת דע‎ Die vollkommen Feurt- 


44 GLOSSARY. 


As to the manner in which responses were obtained 
by the Urim and Thummin, silente Seripturd nihil pro 
certo statuatur. There are several conjectures, more or 
less plausible, but conjectures only. Zr. gr.: 1. Two 
tablets, representing an affirmative or a negative, inserted 
within the folds or pouch of the breastplate, and used in 
the manner of drawing lots. 2. That the priest dressed 
in the ephod stood before the veil, and heard the answer 
pronounced by a voice from within. 3. The verbal answer 
could be spelled out by the priest, as one letter after 
another became illuminated. (See the Palestinian Tar- 
gum on Exod. xxviii. 30.) 4, The wearing of the breast- 
plate had a moral influence on the mind of the priest, 
which predisposed him to receive the answer by an 
inward dictate of the Holy Spirit. 5. The Urim and 
Thummim were identical with the twelve jewels. We 
see in Exod. xxvii. 30 that the Urim and Thummim 
were to be put upon the breastplate: what was put upon 
it but the jewels? They were therefore the Urim and 
Thummim, and were ordained to make, instrumentally, 
the perfect revelation, Zummim, by their lights, Cri. 
Now as the Divine response, unlike the more diffuse 
oracles given in after days by the Holy Spirit to the 
prophets, was vouchsafed to the high priest in a simple 
affirmative or negative, Yes or No, it is conjectured that 
the affirmative answer might have been given by the 
increased refulgence of the jewels, and the negative by 
the withholdment of it. On the general subject compare 
Exod. xxviii. 30; Lev. viii. 8; Exod. sxxv. 27; Ezek. 
xxvill. 14; 1 Sam. xxiii. 2; and the instances in Num. 
gen. GESENIUS, Ofenbarung und Wahrheit, “revelation and truth.” 
Koster, dufklirung und Entscheidung, “ enlightenment and decision,” 
Baeur, Follstandige Erleuchtung, “coraplete illumination.” ZULLIG, 
Geschlifene und ungeschliffene (Diamenten,) “polished and unpolished 


(diamonds),” taking the Hebrew word ¢am in the sense of " 
simple, in its natural state, uncultured,” 


what is 


GLOSSARY. 45 


xxvil. 18-31; Joshua vii. 13, 21; Judges 1. 1; xx. 18, 
28; 1 Sam. xiv. 40-43 ; 1 Sam. xxiii. 9-12; xxviii. 6. 

Among the typical persons of the Old Testament the 
hight priest stands pre-eminently as a representative of 
the Messiah, 1. As the minister of atonement at the 
altar; ₪. The intercessor before the throne ; 3. The infalli- 
ble counsellor with whom is the oracle of God; and, 
4. As the comforter, who bears upon his lips the effectual 
benediction. (Numbers vi.) 


VI. SACRED THINGS. 


Sacririces. The principle of piacular sacrifice has 
obtained in the religions of all nations, as a token of 
repentant confession of sin, and a sign of hope in the 
pardoning mercy of God. But as the surmises of mere 
nature would have deterred mankind from a practice 
which, as destructive of a life that the Creator only 
could give, would augment His displeasure rather than 
secure His favour, it is reasonable to believe that the 
rite must have been adopted, not as a human expedient, 
but in obedience to a revelation of the Divine will. 
This conclusion is strengthened bv the fact that the rite 
of sacrifice was appointed by God Himself in the Mosaic 
cultus, but not then first appointed by Him. Before 
the time of Moses He had enjoined it on Abraham. 
(Gen. xv.) He had manifested His approval of it when 
offered by the earlier patriarchs, as by Noah, amid the 
solitudes of the postdiluvian world, (Gen. ix.,) and by 
Abel, at the gate of Paradise. (Gen. iv. ; Heb. xi.) 

The general name for sacrifices in the Pentateuch is 
Zebachim. Zebach, Chal., Debach, is a victim slain at 
the altar, from zaéach, “to kill or immolate.” Kordan, 
mettannah, terumah, masseeth, are designations for any 
kinds of offerings, bloody or unbloody. 


46 GLOSSARY. 


The Mosaic sacrifices have been variously classified, 
but the most simple and comprehensive order is that in 
which they are arranged under the two heads of the 
Expratory and the Kucuaristic. 

I. The first class includes the sacrifices proper. In 
them the life of the victim was offered for the life of the 
sinner, and its blood was shed as an atonement for guilt. 

These piacular sacrifices were of three kinds. 1. The 
oLaH, falil, or “ whole burnt offering,” because wholly 
consumed, and sent up, by the action of fire, in the 
flame and smoke of the altar. Olah, Chal., alatha, 
comes from alah, “to ascend;” LXNX., 6 זט‎ 0 
“holocaust,” a term which refers to the entire consump- 
tion of the victim. 2. The cHatraan, or “sin offer- 
ing ;” the same word signifying “sin ;” Chal., chattatha ; 
Sept., auapria, i.e., mept duaptias. 38. The asHax, 
or “trespass offering,” from ashmah, “to be guilty ;” 
Chal., ashama; Sept., 4₪סט0‎ cwrnpiov, “ the sacrifice 
of salvation; ” Vulg., hostia pro delicto ; Sept., epi 
tAnupercias. While the difference between sin and 
trespass offerings is textually marked in the Levitical 
law, the distinction between the offences for which they 
were offered is not so clearly given. Some think that 
“sins,” in the technical phraseology of the ceremonial 
law, are violations of prohibitory statutes ; 2. ¢., doing 
something which the law forbids to do. “ Trespasses,” 
on the other hand, are violations of imperative statutes ; 
z.e., neglecting to do those things which are commanded. 

These piacular sacrifices are sometimes called kinpurim, 
Chal., Aippuraia, LXX., xa@dpicyor, “ expiations or 
atonements.” On the question about the manner in 
which they were expiatory, or on the real relation be- 
tween their presentation and the forgiveness of sin, there 
are two opposite doctrines. 

1. There was that in the nature of the sacrifice itself 


GLOSSARY. 47 


which could efficaciously atone for sin. But the divines 
who take this view are not agreed as to the principle 
upon which the offerings became expiative. a. Some 
have thought that the virtue of the sacrifice consisted in 
this,—that a certain material possession was given up 
by the offerer for the sake of gaining a spiritual bless- 
ing. 4, Others consider the sacrifice in the light of a 
fine, by the payment of which the offender is set right 
with his judge; while, c. Others, holding that evil rests 
in that which is material or sensual, and regarding blood 
as the representation of the sensual or evil principle, see 
in the shedding and presentation of blood at the altar 
a physical atonement for moral evil or sin. d. Yet in 
direct opposition to this theory another opinion considers 
the vital blood to have been propitiatory because it was 
pure, and represented the acknowledgment of the offerer’s 
obligation to have been himself pure, and his desire to 
become so. 

2. The second doctrine is, that the Mosaic sacrifices 
had not, nor could have, any intrinsic or atoning power 
in themselves; but derived their value from their having 
been Divinely appointed as means to lead the mind of 
the offerer to a real expiation, of which they were the 
symbols. They were types of the atoning sacrifice of 
the Lamb of God who taketh away the sin of the world, 
emblems of His great sacrifice whose “soul was made 
an offering” (asham) “ for sin,” (Isai. liti. 10,( and who 
“redeemed us unto God by His blood:” Heb. ix. 3-28 ; 
x. 10-14; Matt. xxvi. 98; Mark xiv. 24; Luke xxii. 
20: 1 Cor. xi. 24, 253 Heb. xi. 24; 1 Peter 1 
(Exod. xxiv. $;) John i. 29, 86; xix. 86, 37; 1 Cor. 
v. 7; 1 Peter ii. 24; (Isai. ii. 5-19 ;( 2 Cor. v. 21; 
Eph. v. 2; Rom. viii. 28-25; vil. 25; 1 John i. 2; iv. 
10. “The Law,” says St. Chrysostom, “ was the Gospel 
in anticipation: the Gospel is the Law in fulfilment,” 


48 GLOSSARY. 


For the ritual of sacrifices, vide the first seven chap- 
ters of Leviticus. ‘The expurgatory ordinance of the 
“red heifer,” parak admah, Targum, tortha simketha, 
Sept., dauaris muppa, (vacca rufa, guasi coloris ignei,) 
Numbers xix., comes under the denomination of the 
oloth, or “burnt sacrifices,” but combines with the pro- 
pitiatory a purifying effect. This twofold virtue is un- 
folded in reality in and through the sacrifice of Christ. 
(Hebrews ix. 11-14.) 

II. The other class of Levitical oblations were EvcHa- 
Ristic :—Zidchey 17000, “ sacrifices of praise.” 

1. The Surnamim, or “peace offerings,” LXX., 
cwrTnplov, etpnvixd. These were of the kinds of obla- 
tions called “bloody,” consisting of the slaughtered 
bodies of clean and perfect sacrificial animals; certain 
parts of which were consumed on the altar, but the rest 
partaken of as a feast upon a sacrifice by the offerer and 
his guests. Thus the Targum always renders shedamim 
by nehesath hedeshaia, “consecrated victims.” In their 
death, and the destruction of parts of them on the altar, 
were set forth the means of reconciliation; and in the 
participation of them by the offerer, the enjovment of 
that reconciliation in peace with God. Under the she- 
Zamim may be ranged also the sacrifices by which cove- 
nants were confirmed. 

2. Miycuoru. The mincha (apparently derived from 
nuach, “to rest,” as the husbandman reposes after the 
toils of harvest *) is expressed in the English Bible by 
“meat offering,” and in the Jewish German one by 
“ Mehl oder Speise-opfer ;”’ in the Peschito by surbano 
da semida, “the oblation of flour ;”” Targum, minchatha ; 
Sept., dapov, Sous, munus. The various materials of 
the mincha are specified in the second chapter of Levi- 
ticus. They were anointed with oil, the sign of conse- 


5 Or, because received graciously, with content. 


GLOSSARY. 49 


eration, and offered with frankincense, the symbol of 
worship, and with salt, as a covenant token. Some 
portions were burned, and the remainder assigned to 
the priests. 

An oblation of this kind was presented, (1.) As an 
expression of gratitude, cesach hattoduh, Chal., nesach 
todetha, Ovota ths alvécews, (Lev. vil. 12,) evyapiotia. 
(2.) As the accompaniment of a vow, otiered with prayer 
for some deliverance or blessing; weder, Chal., nidra, 
evx7); or, (3.) As a voluntary gift, 0000267, Chal., 
nedabtha, 6600000106 

Among such oblations were, (1.) The sheaf or homer 
of barley, dpa-yua, offered on the second day of Pascha. 
(Lev. xxii. 10.) (2.) The two wave-loaves, echem 
tenupha shetayim; Onkelos, lechem aramutha tarteen 
geritsan ; two uplifted cakes offered at Pentecost on the 
completion of harvest. (Lev. xxiii. 17.) (8.) The tres- 
pass offering of the poor, who could not afford an animal, 
but who were permitted to offer flour instead. (Lev. v. 11.) 

Portions of the shelamin, minchoth, and other obla- 
tions, were lifted up by the priest towards heaven. This 
made the thing so offered a ¢erumah, (from rain, 
“to elevate,”) Onkelos, arama, “an elevation,” Sept., 
adopicua. It was an act of adoration which acknow- 
160260 God above as the supreme Giver of all good 
things. Again, the consecrated oblation was waved, on 
the outstretched hands of the priest, backward and for- 
ward, hither and thither, as toward the four points of 
the horizon, in acknowledgment of the universal provi- 
dence of Him who giveth food to all flesh. It then 
took the name of fenupha, (from naph, “to stretch 
out,”) Onkelos, aphrashutha, “a separation,” some- 
thing held forth as devoted; LAN., 4000/0606, quod 
auferlur, vel in donarium separatur. 

With a burnt-offering, in addition to the victim, a 

D 


50 GLOSSARY. 


mincha of flour was offered, accompanied with oil 
and wine in equal proportion. The wine was poured 
out round the altar, as a libation; English Version, “a 
drink offering ;” Hebrew, aesek, from 030 “to pour 
out ;” Onk., niseka ; Sept., orrovdn, Zbamen. For the 
evangelic import compare Matthew xxvi. 27, 28. 

3. Brixxurim. “The earth is the Lord’s, and the 
fulness thereof ; the world, and they that dweil therein.” 
He is the Creator and Preserver of our being, and the 
Giver of all our good. It is meet and right and our 
bounden duty to make acknowledgment of this. One 
way by which the Israelitish people gave confession of 
the Divine Proprietorship, their sense of dependence 
upon God, and their gratitude for His mercies, was by 
the presentation of their firstfruits to the Lord; and 
that with the full assurance that the oblation would be 
accepted, because it had been appointed by Himself. 
(Exod. xxii. 29; Lev. xix. 23-25 ; Num. xv. 20 ; xviii. 
12,13; Deut. xvi. 4; xxvi. 2-11.) 

Such an offering was called reshith, “a firstling,” 
from rosh,* “the head,” the chief or best of its kind; 
arrapyn, primitice, preestantissiaum ; and Likkurin, “first 
products,” from dakar, “to be early,” rpwrovervijuata, 
Syriac, 7/sh-allaltho, “ the first of the produce.” The 
names of ¢fervmah and tenupha, already explained, are 
given also to some of the firstlings, because liited up and 
waved at the altar. More strictly, the name d:khurim 
was applied to the fruits, &c., when presented in their 
natural state, primitivi fructus ; and that of terumah, 
to produce no longer raw, but prepared. 

1. The firstborn son was to be consecrated to God. 
In the patriarchal time the priesthood was invested in 
him who had the right of primogeniture. When the 
Levitical order was established, the firstborn of all the 


* Another derivation is from the Arabic, stathath, “ to separate,” 


GLOSSARY. 1 


families of the tribes was presented to the Lord, but 
redeemed from the duties of the priesthood by a com- 
mutative fine, not exceeding five shekels. In this rite 
there was also a commemoration of the sparing mercy 
of God to Israel in the night when the firstborn of the 
Egyptians were destroyed. (Exod. xiii. 13; Num. xviii. 
14-16; Luke ii. 27.) 

2. The firstlings of the flock and herd were offered as 
sacrifices, part of them burned, and the rest appropriated 
to the priests. (Lev. xxvii. 26.) Of animals not fit for 
the altar, the firstlings were to be slain, but not sacri- 
ficed. But they might be redeemed from death by the 
sacrifice of a lamb in their stead, or by the payment of 
a price, ad valorem. (Lev. xxvii. 13.) 

3. Agrarian produce was acknowledged as the gift of 
God by the oblation of the firstfruits. On two occasions 
every year this was done representatively by the nation 
at large. (1.) At Passover, the barley being then ready 
for the sickle, a public service took place on the second 
day of the feast ; a sheaf reaped in a field near the city 
was carried in solemn procession to the house of God; 
and the grain, with oil and frankincense, waved before 
the Lord of the world. (2.) At Pentecost, the harvest 
being then completed, the loaves made of the new 
corn were presented as a wave offering in the same 
manner. 

4, These were public or national eucharists for the 
bounties of Providence; but all proprietors were indi- 
vidually bound to present their first produce, whether 
of the field and garden, the wool of the flock, or the 
honey of the hive, in the proportion, as a sziuemum, of 
one sixtieth. This might be done either by a pilgrim- 
age to the holy place, or by bringing the oblation to the 
priest resident in the proprietor’s neighbourhocd. The 
fruit was brought in a basket, and presented with a 

D2 


52 Gi.OSSARY. 


formula of words prescribed in the twenty-sixth chapter 
of Deuteronomy. 

5. Tithes, maaser, dexatn. In the ideal meaning 
attached to numbers, ¢ez is considered as the number of 
fulness and sufficiency as to worldly things, just as seven 
is the exponent of perfectness in things sacred. So 
ashar in Hebrew is “to be rich or full” In this view 
the tenth has been held in all time as the fit proportion 
of a man’s worldly goods to be given to God. ‘his 
practice is not first inculcated in the Mosaic law: it 
obtained as well in the primeval religion of the patri- 
archs, (Gen. xiv. 20; xxviii. 22,) and among the reli- 
gious institutes of the Gentiles at large. (HERODOTUS, 
Melpom., 152; Drop. Sic., xx., 14.) After the first- 
fruits, a tenth of the produce constituted the great or 
first tithe. Another tenth, called “the second tithe,” 
was presented at the temple, but enjoyed by the offerers. 
This was done two years successively ; but in the third 
year such tithes might be consumed at home, in acts of 
hospitality to the poor. (Deut. xiv. 28, 29; xxvi. 12- 
15.) The Levites themselves paid tithes. (Num. xviii. 
25-32.) 

6. While some things consecrated might be redeemed, 
those that were given absolutely, by an especial devote- 
ment, could not. These came under the denomination 
of cheren. (Lev. xxvii.) 


VIL HOLY SEASONS. 

‘Lue whole life of the chosen people of God was to be 
consecrated to Him who gave it; and among the ap- 
pointments designed to promote this end was the recur- 
rence of stated seasons of religious solemnities, by which 
the years of their personal history were hallowed and 
made happy. These occasions were termed chaygim, 
“feasts ;” moadey-Jehovah, “the festivals of the Lord,” 


GLOSSARY. 8 


ai (סדק60‎ Kupiov, Onk., moadaya da 12/6. The term 
moadey-Jehovah was only given to such days on which 
holy assemblies, mzkra kodesh, were held, and a meet- 
ing, moed, with God took place. The festivals com- 
memorated the dealings of God with them and their 
fathers ; they kept before the people the great truths of 
their religion ; they promoted and sanctified their social 
intercourse, and strengthened the sentiment of their 
commou nationality. 

Several additional feasts are mentioned in subsequent 
parts of the Bible, ordained only by ecclesiastical autho- 
rity; but those Divinely appointed in the Pentateuch 
may be arranged in two classes,—the Sabbatical, and 
the Historical, or commemorative festivals. 

I. In the former class are included, 

1. The Seventh Day, 80000000 la-Yehovah, “the 
Sabbath of the Lord;” yom hashshevihi Shabbath 
Shubbathon, “the seventh day, a Sabbath of Repose ;” 
(Exod. xx. 10; Lev. xxiii. 3;) 006607009 dvaravors. 
{The Christian Church claims also an interest in the 
Sabbath, as a weekly season of repose from the toils of 
this world, and a sacred opportunity for advancing our 
preparation for a better one. Recognising the moral 
nature of the institution, attested by its place in the 
requirements of the Decalogue, the canon of morality 
for every nation and every age, and the reference to it 
in the annals of the Genesis, where it stands historically 
recognised as ordained and observed so long before the 
rise of the Mosaic dispensation, she learns to reverence 
the Sabbath as an ordinance for all humanity, “made 
for may,” and therefore coeval and continued with the 
human race; blessed of God at the first; still blessed ; 
and a fruitful means of blessing to the mdividual, the 
family, and tle nation by whom it is rationally and 
religiously observed. ] 


54 GLOSSARY. 


2. The Feast of Trumpets, shabhathon, cekeron teruah, 
“a rest, a memorial of sounding;” ,בתכ‎ 
dukeran yabala; avarravow, pvnwootvn cadriyyov, 
“a rest, a memorial of trumpets.” A festival which 
came in with the new moon of the seventh month, 
Tishri. This was the fosh hashanah, the commence- 
ment of the civil year. It was ushered in by religious 
solemnities commemorative of the mercy of Him who is 
“our Help in ages past, our Hope for years to come.” 
It should be observed, however, that it has been disputed 
whether the distinction between the ecclesiastical and 
civil year is not a post-Mosaic one. Some, too, think 
they discern in the festival of the seventh month’s new 
moon a type of the future renovation of Israel. The 
moon is the scriptural emblem of the Church; the 
darkened moon, of a Church in apostasy. The new 
moon, as she turns again to the sun, brightens 
once more under his beams. (Isai. lx. 1, 24.) 

3. The Sabbatical Year; once in seven years, when 
there should be Shabbath Shabbathon la-arets, “a Sab- 
bath of Repose to the land;” Onkelos, neyach she- 
mittha le-arah, “a repose of remission to the land.” 
This also has been regarded as a type of the repose to 
be enjoyed by the earth in the seventh age, the Sabbath 
of time. The assurance of an adequate supply for the 
wants of the people, notwithstanding the cessation of 
agriculture in the seventh year, by the superabundant 
harvest yielded in the sixth, is one of the material gua- 
rantees of the Divine legation of Moses. (Lev. xxv. 
se 17, 20; Deut. xv. 1-10.) 

4. After the lapse of seven sabbatical, or forty-nine, 
years came, on the tenth day of Tishri, the Great Year 
of Redemption and release: Yodel, or, Shenath ha 
10060, Onkelos, 102676, “the year of Jubilee,’ 6% 
Tis 0060608 “the year of remission,” dadéceas 


rod 


GLOSSARY. ₪ 


onwacia, “the signal of release or liberation.”’ The 
primary object of this institution was the readjustment 
of such interests of personal liberty, and landed or 
any real property, as had been disturbed in the past 
interval of years. And this gives the best meaning to 
the term “ Jubilee,” as coming from 20000, “to cause 
to bring back, or recall; ” though others, going back 
to the root of the word in yadai, “to flow like water” 
with fulness and impetuosity, refer it to the flowing, 
swelling note of the trumpet which ushered in the year. 
Lev. xxv. 9: “Thou shalt make the” shophar terual, 
“the sounding peal of the trumpet to pass through the 
land ; it shall be Yoded to you.” 

It is disputed whether the Jubilee was celebrated in 
the forty-ninth year or that which followed. The 
Divine ordinance certainly defines the fiflicth to be the 
year. (Lev. xxv. 11.) 

At this “ time of restitution” the Hebrew bondsman 
returned free to his own family, and real property 
which had been mortgaged reverted to its hereditary 
owners. The conditions and regulations are given in 
Leviticus xxv. Loans, too, were released in the Sab- 
batical year; (Deut. xv. 2, 9 ;( a privilege which was 
no doubt extended to the debtor in the greater one of 
the Jubilee. 

All Christians see in the Jubilee a foreshadow of the 
“good things to come.” 15 spoke, with a perpetual 
prophecy, of that “acceptable year of the Lord” which 
the Saviour of mankind declared that He Himself had 
been sent to preach. (Luke iv.) The Jubilean note 
was the prelude to that of the Gospel trumpet which 
proclaims the world redeemed, and calls upon the cap- 
tive to cast aside his chains, and to go forth, made free 
from sin. As the Jubilee trumpet went through the 
land, so must the sound of the Gospel be made to be 


56 GLOSSARY. 


heard through al] the peopled earth, that the nations 
“may be turned from darkness to light, and from the 
power of Satan unto God, to receive remission of sins, 
and an inheritance among the sanctified.” So too, 
with regard to the fate of Israel, there comes a day 
when “the great trumpet shall be blown, and they shall 
come which were ready to perish in the land of 
Assyria, and the outcasts in the land of Egypt, and 
shall worship the Lord in the holy mount at Jerusa- 
lem.” (Isai. xxvii. 18 ; Matt. xxiv. 31.) And, finally, 
we read of the trumpet that will sound when time has 
run the cycle of its ages, and the captivity of the grave 
be ended, and the risen dead, who are “ counted worthy 
to obtain that world,” will be put in possession of the 
“incorruptible inheritance which passeth not away.” 
(1 Cor. xv. 52; Job xix. 25, 26; Matt. xxv. 34.) 
These are the Sabbatical Feasts of the Lord. 

Tl. Of the Commemorative Festivals, the pre- 
cedence belongs to 

1. The Passover; as founded on an event which 
forms the epoch of the national history of the Hebrew 
people,—their exodus from Egypt, and the initiation of 
their ecclesiastical year. (Exod. xii. 2.) The appella- 
tions, Pesach, Onkelos, Pascha, signify “a passing over, 
a sparing, or protection;” Pesach la Yehovah, “the 
Lord’s Passover;” Onk., Pascha kedem Yeya, “the 
Passover before the Lord;” (Exod. xii. 115) Sept., 
IIacya Kvupiov. This name specifies the Passover in 
its strict sense; the night-feast itself; a. Preceded by 
the selection, on the tenth of Nisan, of the lamb, or 
kid, seh, Onkelos, tmmar, mpoBarov, which was to be 
faultless, tamim, Onk., shelim, rédecov; a male, zakar, 
of the vear, ben shanah, either min hakkelushim, from 
the lambs, or min ha izzim, from the goats. 0. The 
putting away of all leavened bread, chomets, Onk., cha- 


GLOSSARY. 57 


mira, Son. c. The immolation of the victim, as a 
sacrifice, 200000 ha pecach, ow the fourteenth of Nisan 
at evening ; [literally, 26/8 ha-arbayim, “between the 
two evenings;” Onkelos, Jeyn shemshaya, “ between 
the suns;” Peschito, Vamarobai shemisho, “at the 
passing over of the sun:”’ all these forms of expression, 
as well as a similar one among the Arabians, being 
idioms for “ the afternoon,” or the interval between the 
passing of the sun from the meridian and his final dis- 
appearance below the horizon. Among the Hebrew 
commentators, Kimchi, Raschi, and, before them, Saad- 
ja Gaon coincide in this view. The Talmud more nar- 
rowly defines “the first evening” as the time when the 
heat of the day begins to abate, towards the close of 
the afternoon, about three hours before sunset, at 
which latter “ the second evening” begins.] d. Some 
of the blood, on the first Passover in Egypt, was 
sprinkled with a bunch of hyssop on the mezuzoth, 
“two side-posts,” and on the mashekoph, or “ lintel” of 
the door. 6. It was roasted entire, on two spits thrust 
through it, the one lengthwise, the other transversely 
passing the longitudinal one near the fore legs; the two 
spits taking thus the form of across. 7. It was eaten 
as a family meal with suitable guests. g. It was eaten 
with unleavened bread, matssoth, and with meroria, 
“bitter herbs,’ the tokens of the affliction they had 
endured in the house of bondage. 

The festival was prolonged during the week, with the 
modified namie of the Feast of Uuleavened Bread, Chag 
hammatssoth, opty עד‎ 00 (Exod. xu. 6, 7.) 
The term Passover is given to the entire feast, and in 
common parlance to eat the unleavened cakes was to 
“eat the passover.” (Deut. xvi. 3. Compare Luke 
xxi. 1, and John xviii. 28; where “ passover” does 
not mean the supper, which had transpired on the pre- 

5 5 


58 GLOSSARY. 


ceding night, but the unleavened cakes, which could 
not be eaten by those who were ceremonially defiled ; 
a remark which serves to obviate an alleged contradic- 
tion in the Gospels.) On the second of the seven days, 
the corn harvest being ready for the sickle, the sheaf as 
the first fruits was reaped, and presented as a wave 
offering before the Lord. See on 050 

The Passover in its mystical aspects was, (1.) A com- 
memoration of the great national deliverance at the 
Exodus. (2.) A sacrament of renewed allegiance to 
God, as their Theocratic King; or a yearly ratification 
of the covenant between Jehovah and His people. (3.) 
A type of Redemption by the Messiah. The Christian 
Church, by inspired authority, regards the paschal lamb 
as an image of the Lamb of God who taketh away the 
sin of the world; the Victim slain to redeem us from 
the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of 
the children of God; and the sheaf, springing from the 
grain seed which had died in the earth, and presented 
to God, as a type of His resurrection, who was deli- 
vered for our offences to death and the grave, and 
raised up for our justification. The sheaf was pre- 
sented “on the morrow after the Sabbath,” (Lev. xxiii. 
15,) “the first day of the week.” (Luke xxiv. 1.) On 
that day Jesus rose. Behold the fulfilment of the 
Paschal type! ‘Christ our Passover is sacrificed for 
us.” (1 Cor. v. 7.) “Now is Christ msen from tbe 
dead, and become the First Fruits of them that slept.” 
(1 Cor. sv. 20.) (4.) The Jews contemplate the 
Passover as a prophetic signal of their future release 
and restoration to Canaan. They see that this pro- 
spective deliverance is associated in the prophecies with 
the memory of that from Egypt, as a Divine pledge of 
its accomplishment. Thus Micah vii. 11-20: “In 
that day thy walls are to be built. In that day the 


GLOSSARY. 59 


decree” (which had consigned thee to captivity) “ shall 
be put afar off. In that day they shall come to thee 
from Assyria, and from the cities, and from sea to sea, 
and from mountain to mountain....... Feed thy people 
with thy rod, which have dwelt solitarily in the wood ; 
let them feed in the midst of Carmel, in Bashan and in 
Gilead, as in the days of old. According to” (or as 
én) “ the days of thy coming out of Egypt will I show 
unto him marvellous things. The nations will see, and 
be confounded in all their might; they shall be afraid 
of the Lord our God, and shall fear because of Thee. 
Who is a God like unto Thee, that pardoneth iniquity, 
and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of His 
inheritance? He retaineth not His anger for ever, 
because He delighteth in mercy. He will turn again, 
He will have compassion upon us; and Thou wilt cast 
all their sins into the depths of the sea. Thou wilt 
perform the truth unto Jacob, and the mercy to Abra- 
ham, which Thou hast sworn unto our fathers from the 
days of old.” 

This prophetic bearing is not lost sight of in the grand 
Paschal ritual now, and for ages past, in use among the 
Jews, From a recitative—too long to be quoted in full 
—which occurs in that service, we will render the follow- 
ing illustrative sentences :— 


> At Passover the faithful sang a hymn: And the Lord 
saved on that day. At the Pesach in Egypt. 

At Passover a voice shall be heard from on high: Israel 
shall be saved inthe Lord with eternal salvation. At 
the Pesach to come. 

At Passover the redeemed went out with an uplifted 
hand, and Israel saw the hand. At the Pesach in 
Egypt. 

At Passover with the greatness of His glorious power 


00 GLOSSARY. 


the Lord will put forth His hand the second time. 
At the Pesach to come. 

At Passover the multitude of His armies with goodly 
wealth walked on dry ground in the midst of the sea. 
At the Pesach in Egypt. 

At Passover the Lord will wave His hand with a tem- 
pestuous wind, and will dry up the tongue of the 
Egyptian 508.5 At the Pesach to come. 

At Passover came the sharp storm, ordained (to over- 
whelm) the camp 01 the Egyptians, with the fiery 
pillar and the cloud. At the Pesach in Egypt. 

At Passover will be new wonders upon those of old, 
“Dlood and fire and pillars of smoke.”® At the 
Pesich to come. 

At Passover he was arrayed to destroy His foes: but 
the sons of Israel went out with an uplifted hand. 
At the Pesach in Egypt. 

At Passover will the cup of salvation and peace (be 
ours:) for (He hath said), With joy shall ye be led 
forth and with peace.” At the Pesach to come. 

At Passover he completed to destroy the Anamim ;® for 
there was not a house where there was not one dead. 
At the Pesach in Egypt. 

At Passover the nations will imagine vainly to strive 
(with the Messiah: ) and this will be the plague. 
At the Pesach to come. ; 

At Passover the Lord opened all the (closed) gates (of 
the Egyptians: ( but passed over the doors (of Israel). 
At the Pesach in Egypt. 

The Great One and the Ruler hath given the Passover 
for a sign of protection and deliverance, escape and 
salvation. At the Pesach to come. 

At the Passover the peculiar people were confirmed to be 


5 Tsaiah xi, § Joel ii. * Tsaiab ly. 12, 3 Eevptisus. 


GLOSSARY. 61 


free: for the Lord fought for them against the Egyp- 
tians. At the Pesach in Egypt. 

A Passover is yet to be for the redemption of the captives : 
and the Lord will goforth and fight against the nations.? 
At the Pesach to come. 

At Passover He darkened to His enemies the shining 
lights: but all the sons of Israel had light. At the 
Pesach in Egypt. 

At Passover there shall be favour by the Word of Him 
who formed thee: Arise, shine, for thy light cometh. 

t the Pesach to come. 

At Passover they praised Him for His strength and for 
His might: for the Lord had redeemed His people. 
At the Pesach in Egypt. 

At Passover will the praise of His power be set forth : 
Our Redeemer, the Lord of Hosts is His Name. At 
the Pesach to come.” 


(Congregation and reader together.) 


* At the Passover He will add salvation to salvation : 
He will remember His covenant to save the people 
brought nigh to Him in love. Who is like Thee 
among the mighty, O Lord? Who is like Thee, 
glorious in holiness, awful in praises, doing marvels ? 
Thy children saw Thy Majesty, Thou Divider of the 
sea before Moses ! '1 


2. The seven weeks after Pascha were occupied with 
the labours of harvest, on the conclusion of which the 
second of the annual pilgrim festivals took place. This 
was the chag ha-shabuoth, “ the Feast of Weeks,” Onk- 
elos, chagga de shabuaya, éopty EBSouddwv. Commenc- 
ing on the fiftieth day from the second day of the Pass- 


® Zech. xiv. 16. 
1 Macusor, Seder Pesach, Service for the Seventh Night. 


62 GLOSSARY. 


over week, (Lev. xxiii. 15,) this anniversary among the 
later Jews took the name of the Pentecost, chamishim you, 
(verse 16,) nuépa THs mevtnKoarAs; also the Feast of 
Harvest or Ingathering, and the Day of the Firstfruits. 
(Num. xxviti.) Its observance combined, )1.( The 
commemoration of the bounty of Providence in the 
harvest ingathered, of which the public token was the 
wave-offering of the two loaves made of the new corn ; 
and, (2.) As man liveth not by bread only, but by every 
word of the Lord, their thanksgiving for the revelation 
of His Law at Mount Sinai. 

It was at this Feast of Weeks at Jerusalem, attended 
by the men of the home land of Israel, and by devout 
proselytes of many Gentile nations, that the Christian 
Pentecost was inaugurated, (Acts 11.,( when the Divine 
Spirit wrote the Law again, not on tables of stone, but 
on the living heart. |" Whereof the Holy Ghost is a 
witness to us: for after that He had said before, This 
is the covenant that I will make with them after those 
days, saith the Lord: I will put my laws into their hearts, 
and in their minds will I write them: and their sins 
and iniquities will I remember no more.’ Then too 
was ushered in that Feast of Ingathering, which the 
church has, or should have, celebrated ever since in 
a perpetual Harvest of Souls. The three thousand of 
the first Pentecost were the First Fruits presented to 
the Lord of that consummation to be witnessed, when 
“oll Israel shall be saved, with the fulness of the 
Gentiles.” 

3. The Feast of Tabernacles (chag ha sukkoth, Onkelos, 
chagga de metalya, “the feast of shades or bowers,” Sept., 
éop7 oxnvev, St. John and Josephus, oxnvornyia) 
commenced on the 15th of Tishri, and continued seven 
days. As indicated by the name, it was intended to 
commemorate the tabernacle life of their fathers in the 


GLOSSARY. 63 


wilderness; in doing which, every family took their 
meals each day in a temporary booth, awning, or summer 
bower,? either in the garden or upon the flat roof of 
the house. The vintage and fruit harvest being now 
completed, the public thanksgiving for the mercies of 
the past year contributed to the cheerful tone of the 
season. 

The observances of the Feast of Tabernacles had a 
peculiar grandeur. At the temple altar the sacrifices 
were מס‎ an unusual scale, as laid down in Numbers xxix., 
where it will be seen that in addition to the other victims 
prescribed the bullocks offered during the seven days 
amounted to seventy; an oblation which the Jews 
regarded as a sacrifice offered on behalf of the nations of 
the world at large. 

A procession moved each day round the altar court, 
holding in their hands the Judad and the citron, and 
chanting the Hosannah passages of Psalm cxviii. On 
the seventh day the procession was repeated seven times. 
The Zu/ad, which was a wreath or bunch of small branches 
bound together, and carried in the hand instar 8000770 
consisted, if we read rightly Lev. xxiii. 40, of, 1. The 
branches of the palm, kappoth temarim, Onk., lulabin, 
Syr., lebavotho de dekelo, Sept., xadruvtpa powikav. 
2, Branches of the myrtle, axaph ets aboth, 7 6. the 
* bough of a bushy tree,” (Sept., cAadous Evrov daceis, 
ramos ligni densos,) which the Jews consider as a term 
for the myrtle, by which Onkelos and the Syriac trans- 
lators render it. 3. Willows of the brook, arbey nachad, 
Onk., arin di nechal, Sept., iréat, salices. 

There are poetical, if not mystical, ideas associated 
with these images. The myrtle is the emblem of justice. 
See the Targum on Esther ii. 7, where we read, “The 


2 See the Palestine Targum on Lev. 33111, and the Mishna, treatise 
Sukkah. 


64 GLOSSARY. 


just are compared to the myrtle.” The willow is the 
emblem of affliction; the palm, of victory. In the 
Apocalypse St. John beholds the just made perfect, 
waving the palm, without the willow. 

In the illuminated court of the temple “the Psalms 
of Degrees’? were chanted by an immense choir of 
Levites : and on the seventh or Great Day of the Feast 
was the solemnity of the libation of water, drawn in a 
golden vase from the fountain of Siloam, and poured 
out by the priest ut the altar, the whole assembly joining 
in the Song of Salvation given in the twelfth chapter of 
Isaiah. It appears from Bereshith Rabba and the 
Jerusalem Talmud that the Jews regarded the water as 
an emblem of the pure and purifying Law, the giving of 
which they celebrated with what they called simehuth- 
Torah, “the rejoicing for the Law:” but further, that 
the joy then cherished in their bosoms predisposed them 
for the reception of the Holy Spirit; so that Siloal’s 
well became to them like a means of receiving the grace 
of the Divine Spirit. But our Saviour, in the solemn 
words proclaimed by Him on the Great Day of the last 
Feast of Tabernacles before His death, announced the 
privilege of those who believe in Him to have the 
purifying Spirit within themselves, an interior fount of 
life. (Jolin vii. 37.) 

In the prophecy of Zechariah, chap. xiv. 16, it is 
intimated that when Jerusalem in her future days of 
blessing shall become the joy of the earth, the people of 
God will go up thither from time to time, and from 
many lands, to celebrate a festival which, from its joyful 
character, will bear a resemblance to, and is indeed called 
by the name of, the Feast of Tabernacles. 

But the passing generations of the good who are 
strangers and pilgrims upon earth, with no continuing 
city, but tenants for a time of the frail, fading tabernacle 


GLOSSARY. 09 


of the body, are looking for and hastening on to a city 
of habitation whose Maker and Builder is God. Their 
pilgrimage ends when “the holy, who do His command- 
ments,” enter the gates of those blessed abodes. We 
transfer, in faith and hope, to the eternal Jerusalem what 
is written of the best days and best blessings of the 
earthly one. “ Look upon Zion, the city of our solem- 
nities: thine eyes shall behold Jerusalem a quiet habita- 
tion; thine eyes shall see the King in His beauty, in the 
Jand afar off.” 


Thus much for the Festivals: the only Fasr pre. 
scribed in the Pentateuch is that on the Day of Atone- 
ment; when the sins of the whole people were spread 
before God in penitential confession, accompanied by 
the sacrifices which set forth the great means of expia- 
tion. This august solemnity transpired five days before 
the Feast of Tabernacles, that is to say, on the tenth 
day of the month Tishri, which took on that account 
the appellation of Zuéuith Gadol, “the Great Fast,” 
and Yom Kippur, “the Day of Expiation,’ or simply 
but emphatically Youa, “the Day.” In this great 
transaction every Israelite was bound to take a part. 
(Lev. xxiii. 27-29.) The twenty-four hours consti- 
tuting the day, from the evening, just after sunset, or, 
as it was held, as soon as three stars could be counted 
in the sky, till the following evening at the same time, 
were marked by a rigid fast:? no food, no fire, no 
bathing, no work: the people went barefoot, and all 


3 “ Before the Lord who sitteth above the cirele of the heavens may 
our streaming tears, ike a Jlood on the earth, wash out the hand- 
writing of our sins. 

“ We stand all day before the Lord of the whole world, from the 
rising of the morn, until the coming forth of the stars.” 

Moses ABEN Ezra: Veda for the Duy of dtonement. 


66 GLOSSARY. 


was silence and humiliation. At home each member of 
the family was occupied in the Word of God, in self- 
examination, and in solitary prayer; till as many as 
could find standing-room in the neighbourhood of the 
temple engaged in the long service at which the high 
priest officiated in person. For the ritual itself compare 
Leviticus xvi. 1-34; xxiii, 26-52 ; Numbers xxix. 7-11. 
The principal terms connected with it have been already 
defined. The only one which now calls for remark is 
the epithet given to the goat upon which fell the lot to 
live, while its companion fell under the doom of death. 
The animal which was sent away alive is designated 

zazel. The Divine directory, Lev. xvi. 8, reads, 
“And Aharon shall cast lots upon the two goats; one 
lot for the Lord, and the other lot for Azazel. And 
Aharon shall bring the goat upon which the Lord’s lot 
fell, and offer him for a sin-offering,” literally ve-asahu 
chattah, “and shall make him to be sin.” (Compare 
2 Cor. v. 21.) “But the goat on which the lot fell for 
Azazel, he shall set before the Lord alive, to propitiate 
upon him,” le shalach otho la azazel ha midbarah, “to 
send him for,” or to, ‘ Azazel, towards the wilderness.” 
There is, it must be confessed, an air of mystery over 
the expressions, which seems to excuse the conflict of 
opinions—I may say, fancies—which have early and 
late divided the word-critics of the Bible upon the 
signification of the name Azazel. We will mention the 
principal. 

1. It is an appellation of the Divine Being. Thus 
the Syriac version of the text gives the name as dzaza- 
el, “the Mighty God.” In the Latin translation of 
the Peschito there is a gloss to the same effect: “ La 
Azaza-el, 1. €., Deo Fortissimo.”’ But it must be seen 
that if this interpretation be the true one, the casting of 
lots would be a useless formality, as each goat would 


GLOSSARY. 67 


equally fall to the Deity, either as “the Lord,” or as 
“the Mighty God.” 

2. It was the name of a place, to which the living 
goat was led away. See here Onkelos and the Pales- 
tinian ‘Targums on Lev. xvi. 8, and Rashi’s comment- 
ary on the text. 

3. It is a personal name, not for the Almighty, but 
for Satan, or one of the fallen angels. The name Azal- 
zel does occur in that way in the Book of Enoch, and 
in rabbinical writings, as in Menachem on Leviticus ; 
and the Boraitha of Eliezer, where the four most 
powerful demons are named Sammael, Azazel, Azael, 
and Machazeel. But though in the oriental demon- 
ology the name might have been applied to Satan, it 
does not follow that the evil being had anything to do 
with the scape-goat on the day of atonement; either in 
the animal being made his representative, or in its 
being sent to him. In the former case the sins of 
Israel were confessed, so to speak, over the head of the 
devil; in the second, the infernal spirit is elevated in 
the transaction to a co-partnership with the Almighty : 
‘both the one notion and the other are too repugnant to 
our perceptions of propriety to be admissible. 

+. A fourth and, as it appears to us, a far more eli- 
gible opinion is, that which, deriving it from az, ‘a goat,” 
and azaé,averb which signifies “ to go away,” makes the 
name Azazel descriptive of the fate of the living goat, 
as antithetical to that of the animal that had fallen 
under the doom of death. The one died at the altar; 
the other goes forth to its native wilderness alive. 
Viewing the solemnities of the Day of Atonement in 
their evangelical aspects, this meaning of the name has 
the greater recommendation. It has also the authority 
of the Septuagint, which translates Azazel by 6 
amoroptaios, “ the dismissed one; ” from יסד‎ 


6S GLOSSARY. 


“to send away.” The animals, though two in number, 
are yet but parts of one provision for a symbolic atone- 
ment for sin; and conjointly represent the expiatory 
work of the One Redeemer, who, in bearing away the 
sin of the world, was delivered to death for our 
offences, and raised to /i/e for our justification. So 
this mystical goat dies, and yet lives: but asa single 
animal could not exhibit the two phases of tue truth to 
be set forth in the type, two were appointed; the one 
to die, the other to go away alive. “ We have redemp- 
tion in His blood, even the remission of sins.” As 
far as the east is from the west, so far hath He removed 
our transgressions from us.” 


VHI. MISCELLANEOUS TERMS 
RELATING 10 THE CIVIL AND RELIGIOUS LIFE OF THE 
HEBREW PEOPLE. 


I. Qorah, Torath Yehovah; from yarah, “to 
instruct :” the entire body of Divine precepts which 
form the life of righteousness; Targum, ornarrHa da 
Yeya; Syr., Peschito, Nomuwseh de Morio; Sept. 6 
vouos Tod Kupiov. 

Berith, Habberith, “the covenant ;” dibree habbe- 
rith ; Onk., yath pithgamee keyama, ‘the words ot the 
covenant.” (Exod. xxxiv. 28.) 

dsereth haddebarim, “the ten words; ” Onk., asera 
pithgamin, ot déka royor, “the Decalogue.” (Exod. 
Xxxiv. 25.) 

Mitsvah, “a commandment,” plur., iitsroth ; root, 
78000, “to set;” (so, law, lew, degis, is, etvmologically, 
‘that which is laid down ;”) Sept., évtod. 

Hok, plur., hukkim, (the H, cheth, strong guttural,) 
“a stutute, a fixed appointment, a decree;” Onk., 
keyam ; Sept., mpooraypa. 

Pikkudim, “ prescriptions, rules,” Sccac@para, 


GLOSSARY. 69 


Mishpat, pl. mishpatin or shephatim, “a judicial 
decision,” from shaphat, “ to distinguish, determine ;” 
Onk., dinaya, pl., Sept., 6060/0006 

Din, Chal. dina, “a judgment, a matter to be 
adjudged; ” Scen. 

Edah, “testimony ;” Eduth, “an ordinance ;” 
emphatically, the Law on the tablets. 

Mishmaroth, “ things to be observed ; ” from shamar, 
“to keep watch over.” 


Il. Ketuhah, “ marriage contract.” Mekadesh, also 
Kedushin, ** Betrothment,” from /adash, “ to set apart.” 

Eres, “marriage vow,” from aras, “to betroth.” 
Mochar, “ dowry.” (Gen. xxix. 18, 27.) 

Kallah, “a bride,” (because crowned?)  Chatan, 
“a bridegroom.” Choten, “a wife’s father.” Cham, 
“a husband’s father.” 

Pelegesh, “a concubine,” plur., pilagshim, a second- 
ary wife; married, but not with the ceremonies of the 
usual marriage. The name given to the various wives 
in a family cursed with polvgamy was zeroth, “ trou- 
bles, adversaries, or rivals,” (1 Sam. i. 6,) because, as 
R. David Kimchi informs us in his note on that text, 
they are most commonly causes of trouble, jealousy, and 
vexation to each other. 

Yabam, a brother who was to marry the childless 
widow of his deceased relative. | 1070000, the espousals 
of 8 yabam. (Deut. xxv.) 

Chalitsa, the ceremony of taking off the shoe, if the 
brother should refuse the yeloom. (Deut. xxv. 9.) 

Get, plur., gittin, “a writing of divorce.” 

Nin, “ offspring, posterity,” from ni, “to flourish.” 
Zera, the same as n27. 

Bekor, “the firstborn,” | ה‎ 0007070008.  Bekorah, 
* primogeniture.” 


70 GLOSSARY. 


Ben, “ason;” Chal., Bar. Bath, “a daughter.” 

Youek, “a sucking infant.” Gamud, the same. Zupf, 
(collective noun,) “little ones, children, a family.” 1%- 
led, “a child, boy.” Nahar, “a youth;” fem., zaarad. 
Elem, “a marriageable youth.” 

Almanah, “a widow.” Yatom, “an orphan.” 

Mishpacha, “a family,” as a sub-division of a Shedet, 
“tribe.” 

Beth-Ab, or Aboth, “anumber of families related.” 


III. Aloof, an Edomite “duke,” leader, a chief; 
root, alaph ; (Gen. xxxvi. 40;) Onk., 00000 ; Sept., 
nyeuov, “a chief of a tribe,” pudapyns. 

Nasi, “a prince, magistrate.” Rosh beth aboth, “a 
chief of the house of the fathers.” Roshee shebatim, 
“heads of tribes.” 

Amarkella, (Chaldee, found only in the Targums,) “a 
chief.” According to Rashi the word means “a trea- 
surer.” 

Shoter, “an overseer.” Shophet, “a judge;” roct, 
shaphat. 

Sur, “a captain;” root, sarar, “to rule.’ Saree 
alaphin, meoth, chamishim, asaroth, “captains of thou- 
sands, hundreds, fifties, and tens.” 

Kahal, a church,” ecclesia. Sod, “an assembly,” 
comitia. 

Edah, “a congregation ;” Zikney ha eduh, “the elders 
of the congregation ;”” NVestey ha edah, “the princes of 
the same;” (Num. ¥i. 16;) the seventy elders; re- 
garded by the Jews as the primary germ of the Sanhedrin. 

Baal, “a master.” Baalah, “a mistress.” Ebed, “a 
servant.” Shinkahath, “a maid-servant.” 

Gar, “a stranger ;” from gar, “40 sojourn.” 


ג 


Shebuah, “an oath.” Temurah, “an exchange, com- 
mutation, compensation, the thing exchanged.” Kopher 


0 71 


nephesh, or piddion nephesh, “indemnification,” or com- 
mutation for punishments incurred by injuring others. 
(Exod. xxi.) 

Goel, from gaal, redemit, vindicavit, “a redeemer or 
avenger ;” the right to redeem possessed by the nearest 
of kin; Chal., 600 (Num, xxxv. 19; Lev. xxv. 25; 
compare Ruth iii. 12, 13.) 

PuNIsuMENTS.—Gemul, tagmul, “retribution.” Pe- 
kudah, © visitation.” 

Bekoreth, “scourging ;” from dakar, “an ox;” be- 
cause inflicted with the ox-tail; others, from dakar, 


visitare. 
Sekilah, regimah, “stoning ;” from sakal, and ragam, 
lapidare. 


Serepha, “ burning,”—either the dead body, or brand- 
ing the living one, 

Hereg, “beheading.” Chenek, “strangling.” Teliya, 
“hanging” the dead body for exposure. 

Kareth, “ cutting off from the people ;” excommunica- 
tion, sometimes bodily death. (Lev. xxiii. 29.) 

Nidut, cherem, shammatha, the three degrees of ex- 
communication, 


IV. Yekehath, “obedience.” Shemiah, or Mishmah, 
“hearkening to,” in the sense of obeying; root, shema, 
“to listen.” 

Asham, “a sin.” Chattaah, “ transgression,” from 
chata, “to slide, stumble, or miss the mark.”  Pesha, 
“revolt, sedition;” root, pasha, “to rebel.” 200% 
“clean,” Chal., dakia, 000006. Tamé, “unclean,” 
Chal., mesaah, 06000706. Clean and unclean, as a 
condition of the human body, or the species of an animal, 
as judged of by the standard of the Levitical law. Todd, 
“apostasy” from God; root, ¢aak, “to wander.” Adar, 
“to transgress a limit.” Avon, “iniquity, moral dis- 


‘2 GLOSSARY. 


tortion;” root, 0000, “to be perverse, deal perversely.” 
Sarah, “a deviation from the law ; root, str, ‘to turn 
away, decline from.” ved, avdad, " iniquity, injustice ;” 
root, aval. Shegaga, “an error, inadvertency ;” root, 
shagag or shagah, “to err.” Shegiah, “a sin of igno- 
rance.” Sheker, “ prevarication, falsity ;” from shakar, 
“to he.” Nebalah, “ wickedness, folly ;” root, zada/. 
Zimmah, “ crime, mischief ; root, zamam, “to devise 
or purpose evil.” Remick, * remissness, unfaithfulness ;” 
root, ramah, in Piel, “to deceive.” lau’, “ faithless- 
ness ;” root, maa/, “to deal treacherously.” isha and 
reshah, “ guilt, wickedness ;” root, rasha, “to be guilty, 
Hable to punishment.” In the Targums 6000/06, chobtha, 
from 6000 precavil, debitor fuit. Beliyaal, “ worthless- 
ness,” from dedi, “without,” and yaad, “ usefulness.” 
Ben-leliyaal, ish beliyaal, “a worthless man ;” Onk., “a 
son of wickedness ;” Sept., apavoyos. 


V. Teshnbah, conversion ;” root, shad, “to return.” 
Charata, (Chaldee,) “ penitence.” Tidui, “ confession ;” 
root, yada, “to know,” Piel, “to make known.” 

Kippurin, “amends, atonement;” root, haphar, in 
Piel, “to expiate.” 

Emunah, “faith ; root, aman, “to stand firm, to be 
true ;” in Hiphil, Aeémin, “to confide in, lean upon.” 
Betach, “trust, confidence ;” root, 20/0067, “to confide 
in, to be quiet.” 

Selicha,“ pardon ;” root, salach, to forgive.” Zedakah, 
“Justification or righteousness ;” root, 20020 “to be 
night.” Of Abraham it is written, (Gen. xv. 6,) 7606 
min ba-Yehovah, vaiyachsheleha* lo Zedakoh: “And 
he believed in the Lord, and He counted it to him for 
righteousness.” Compare Rom. iv. 3, as quoted from the 
Septuagint. Onkelos, Vehemin Le Memra da Yeya ve 

* Root, ehashad, “to think, judge, account, or reckon as anything.” 


GLOSSARY. 73 


chashbah leh lizeko: “And he believed in the Word of 
the Lord, and He accounted it to him for justification.” 

Tikevah, “ hope, expectation ; root, kavah, “to wait 
for.” 

Ahatah, ahava, “love,” root, 000, “ to love or delight 
in.” 

Chesed, “ kindness ;” Rachamim, “tender mercies ; ” 
root, racham, “to love.” 

Ratson, “ benevolence ;” root, ratsah, placere. Emeth, 
“truth, veracity.” 

Kodesh, Kedushah, “holiness ;” root, kadush, "+0 be 
sacred,” Hiphil, “to sanctify.” 

Teshuah, “salvation ;” also Yesha, root, yasha, “to 
save, deliver, succour.” 

10800700, “rectitude, uprightness;” root, yasha; 
from which, as is commonly thought, comes the name 
Jeshurun, given in the Pentateuch to Israel; though 
others connect it with the Arabic root yasara, “to 
prosper, be wealthy,” like the Hebrew asdar, “to be 
blessed.” 

Hithhalek eth ha-Elohim, “to walk with God.” (Gen. 
v. 24.) Hithhalek lipnei, “to walk before Him.” (Gen. 
xvii. 1.( Hithhalek acheri, “to walk after, be obedient 
to.” (Deut. viii. 19.) Halek im bekeri, “to walk con- 
trary to, be rebellious against God.” (Lev. xxvi. 40.) 

Neder, “avow;” a voluntary engagement, or sacred 
promise, made either as an acknowledgment of benefits 
received, or as a means of obtaining them. (Gen. xxviii. 
22.) Onkelos, heyam; Sept., evyn. Nedarim were 
either affirmative, in the devotement of the person or 
one’s property to God, or negative, in the vow of absti- 
nence from things in themselves lawful. Such was the 
vow of the Nazir. (Lev. xxv.; Num. vi. 2.) “A certain 
man came to me® from the south, intending to take the 


, 


5 Simeon ha Zadik, high priest. 
E 


74 GLOSSARY. 


vow of a Nazarite: he was beautiful in countenance, and 
his hair waved in graceful locks. My son, I said, what 
moves thee to destroy thy hair? He replied, 1 am a 
shepherd to my father in my native place. I went to 
draw water from the fountain, and looking at the reflec- 
tion of my own face in the water, vanity seized me, and 
became a temptation to hinder my future happiness. 
Wretch, said I then to myself, art thou proud of that 
which is not thine, and which must soon be dust and 
ashes? So now I swear tha: I go not hence until these 
locks be cut off. And 1 arose, and kissed his head, and 
said, May such Nazarites increase in Israel!” (Zalmud.) 
Tephillah, “ prayer ;” root, 2200760, in Hithpa. in the 
sense of speravit; mpocevyy; Ouk., 1000006. Bakkasha, 
“supplication ;” root, dakash, “to seek earnestly, strive 
for.” Sheélah, “a petition ;” root, shaal, “ to ask.” 
Berakah, “blessing, benediction ;” root, darak, “to 
pronounce a blessing;” Onk., Birketha; etroyla. 


Forms oF BENEDIcTION. Jleborak Adonai, “ Be thou 
blessed of the Lord.” Birekath ddonai aleka, “The 
blessing of the Lord be upon thee.” Adonai immeka, 
“The Lord be with thee.” Shalom leka, “Peace be 
with thee.” 

Tus Diviys Bevepictioy. Hebrew text, Yedarekka, 
Yehovah veyishmereka, “The Lord bless thee, and keep 
thee.” Tuer 1000000 panaif eleyka, vichunneka, “The 
Lord make His face to shine upon thee, and be gracious 
unto thee.” Vissa Yehovah panaif eleyka, veyasem leka 
shalom, “The Lord lift up His countenance upon thee, 
and confer upon thee peace.” (Num. vi. 24.) Compare 
the passage in the Targus of Onkelos and Palestine. 

In the edifying service for the Day of Atonement in 
the Hebrew Machsor, this most holy benediction is 
employed with a devotional comment on each word, con- 


GLOSSARY. 75 


sisting of some illustrative text from the Scriptures. 
Thus :-- 


1. May He bless thee : “The Lord who made heaven 
and earth bless thee out of Zion.” 

The Lord: “O Lord our Lord, how excellent is Thy 
Name in all the earth!” 

And keep thee: “Preserve me, O God; for in Thee 
do I put my trust.” 

2. Make shine: “God be gracious unto us, and bless 
us, and cause His face to shine upon us.” 

The Lord: “The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and 
gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and 
truth.” 

His Face: “Turn Thee unto me, and be gracious 
unto me; for 1 am alone and afflicted.” 

Unto thee: “Unto Thee, O Lord, do I lift up my 
soul.” 

And be gracious unto thee: “ Behold, as the eyes of 
servants look unto the hand of their masters, and the 
eyes of a maiden to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes 
wait upon the Lord our God, until He be gracious unto 
us.” 

8. May He lift up: “ He shall receive a blessing from 
the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salva- 
tion, and find grace and good understanding in the eyes 
of God and man.” 

The Lord: “O Lord, have mercy on us; we have 
trusted in Thee: be Thou our strength every morning ; 
our salvation in the time of trouble.” 

His Face: “‘O Lord, hide not Thy face from me: in 
the day of my distress incline Thine ear unto me.” 

Unto thee: “Unto Thee do I lift up mine eyes, O 
Thou who dwellest in the heavens.” 

And give: ‘And they shall put My Name upon the 
children of Israel, and I will bless them.” 


76 GLOSSARY. 


Thee : “Thine, O Lord, is the greatness, and the power» 
and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty ; for all 
that is in the heaven and in the earth is Thine: Thine 
is the kingdom, O Lord, and Thou art exalted as Supreme 
above all.” 

Peace: “ Peace to him that is afar off, and to him 
that is near, saith the Lord; and 1 will heal him.” 


END OF THE GLOSSARY. 


THE TARGUM OF ONKELOS 


ON 


THE BOOK VATYIKRA 


OR 


LEVITICUS. 





SECTION OF THE LAW XXIV. 
VAIYIKRA. 


1. פצג‎ the Lord called unto Mosheh, and the Lord 
spake with him from the tabernacle of ordinance, say- 
ing: Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them: 
When one of you will bring an offering before the Lord 
of the cattle, of oxen or of sheep, you shall offer your 
oblations. If his oblation be a burnt offering of the 
oxen, (it shall be) a male, unblemished; he shall offer 
him at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance ; he shall 
offer him for acceptance before the Lord. And he shall 
lay his hand upon the head of the burnt offering, that it 
may be acceptable for him to propitiate on his behalf. 
And he shall sacrifice the young bullock before the 
Lord; and the sons of Aharon the priest shall bring the 
blood, and sprinkle the blood round about upon the altar 
which is at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance. And 
he shall take away (the skin) of the burnt offering, and 
divide it, by its members. And the sons of Aharon the 
priest shall put fire upon the altar, and lay the wood in 
order upon the fire. And the priests, the sons of Aha- 
ron, shall arrange the limbs and the head and the fat 


78 TARGUM OF ONKELOS (CHAP. 


on the wood upon the fire which is on the altar. But 
his inwards and his legs he shall wash with water ; and 
the priest shall burn the whole upon the altar an entire 
burnt offering, an oblation to be received with accept- 
ance before the Lord. 

And if his oblation be from the flock, of the sheep or 
the young of the goats for a burnt offering, he shall 
bring a perfect male. And he shall sacrifice him at the 
north side of the altar before the Lord; and the priests 
the sons of Aharon shall sprinkle his blood round about 
upon the altar. And he shall divide him by his mem- 
bers, and his head and his feet ; and the priest shall lay 
them upon the wood which is on the fire upon the altar. 
But the inwards and the legs he shall wash with water, 
and the priest shall bring the whole and burn (it) upon 
the altar: it isa whole burnt offering, an oblation to be 
received with acceptance before the Lord. 

But if the burnt offering of his oblation before the 
Lord be from fowl, he shall bring his oblation from the 
turtles or the young of a pigeon. And the priest shall 
offer 16 upon the altar, and wring off its head, and bum 
upon the altar, and pour its blood by the side of the 
altar: and he shall remove its crop with its food, and 
throw it on the east side of the altar, at the place where 
they empty the ashes. And he shall cleave it through 
its wings, (but) divide (it) not; and the priest shall burn 
it at the altar upon the wood that is on the fire: it is a 
burnt offering, an oblation that shall be received with 
acceptance before the Lord. 

II. But if a man bring an oblation of a mincha® be- 
fore the Lord, his oblation shall be of meal, and he shall 
pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon, and 
bring it to the priests the sons of Aharon; and the 
priest shall take from it his handful of the meal with 


> Ilincha, a bloodless oblation. 


II. | ON LEVITICUS. 79 


its oil, and all its frankincense, and burn the memorial of 
it at the altar ; an oblation to be received with favour 
before the Lord. And that which remaineth of the 
mincha shall be Aharon’s and his sons’; it is most holy 
among the oblations of the Lord. And when thou 
bringest the oblation of a mincha baked in the oven, it 
shall be of meal cake unleavened, mingled with oil, with 
unleavened wafers anointed with oil. And if the min- 
cha be (prepared) in a pan, thy oblation shall be of meal 
mingled with oil; unleavened shall it be. And thou 
shalt break it in pieces, and pour oil thereon; it is a 
mincha. But if thy oblation be a mincha from the grid- 
iron, thou shalt make it of meal with oil. And the min- 
cha which is made of these thou shalt bring before the 
Lord, and present it to the priest, and he will offer it at 
the altar. And the priest shall separate its memorial 
from the mincha, and burn upon the altar an oblation 
to be received with favour before the Lord. And that 
which remaineth of the mincha shall be Aharon’s and 
his sons’: it is most holy among the oblations of the 
Lord. No mincha which you offer before the Lord may 
be made with leaven; for no leaven or honey shall you 
burn with any oblation before the Lord. In the obla- 
tion of first fruits you may offer them before the Lord, 
but not burn them at the altar, that they may be accepted 
with favour. And every offering of thy mincha thou 
shalt salt with salt ; and thou mayest not withhold the 
salt of the covenant of thy God from upon thy mincha ; 
upon every oblation thou shalt offer salt. And when 
thou offerest the mincha of first fruits before the Lord, 
green ears’ dried with fire, broken and soft, shalt thou 
offer as the mincha of thy first fruits. And thou shalt 
put oil on it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is 2 min- 
cha; and the priest shall burn its memorial of its broken 
7 Samaritan Vers., “without the husk.” 


20 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


grain and of its oil with. all the frankincense, an obla- 
tion before the Lord. 

III. And if his oblation be a victim of the sanctified 
things ;* if from oxen, whether male or female, he shall 
offer it perfect before the Lord. And he shall lay his 
hand upon the head of his oblation at the door of the 
tabernacle of ordinance; and the priests the sons of 
Aharon shall sprinkle the blood round about upon the 
altar. And of the oblation of the sacred victim the fat 
that covercth the inwards, even all the fat that is upon 
the inwards, and the two kidneys and the fat which is 
upon them on the sides, and the caul that is upon the 
liver with the kidneys, he shali remove. And the sons 
of Aharon shall burn it at the altar, with the burnt of- 
fering which is on the wood upon the fire, an oblation® 
to be received with grace before the Lord. But if his 
oblation of a consecrated victim before the Lord be from 
the flock, whether male or female, he shall offer it per- 
fect. If lis oblation be a lamb, he shall present it be- 
fore the Lord, and lay his hand upon the head of his 
oblation, and slay it before the tabernacle of ordinance ; 
and the sons of Aharon shail sprinkle its blood upon the 
altar round about. And of his oblation of the conse- 
crated victim before the Lord, its fat, the entire tail close 
by the backbone, he shall remove ; the fat which covereth 
the inwards, even all the fat which is upon the inwards, 
and the two kidneys and the fat which is upon them 
upon the sides, and the caul that is over the liver, with 
the kidneys, he shall take away; and the priest shall 
burn it at the altar; it is the meat (Cechei, bread) of an 
oblation before the Lord. 

But if lis oblation be from the young goats, he shall 


® 00090076, the Chaldee term for the Hebrew shelamim, yendered 
in the English Bible, * peace offerings.” 
5 Sam. Vers., “a sweet-smelling oblation.” 


1v.] ON LEVITICUS. 81 


present it before the Lord, and lay his hand upon its 
head, and slay it before the tabernacle of ordinance; and 
the sons of Aharon shall sprinkle its blood upon the 
altar round about. And of his oblation he shall offer as 
an oblation before the Lord the fat which covereth the 
inwards, and all the fat which is upon the inwards, and 
the two kidneys, and the fat which is upon them on the 
sides; but the caul that is over the liver with the kid- 
neys he shall take away. And the priest shall burn 
them at the altar: it is the meat of an oblation to be 
received with acceptance; all the fat (shall be offered) 
before the Lord. It is an everlasting statute unto your 
generations, and in all your dwellings, that neither the 
fat nor the blood shall be eaten. 

IV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with the sons of Israel, saying: When 8 man sinneth 
through ignorance of any of the precepts of the Lord, as 
to that which should not be done, and acteth contrary to 
one of them : if the high priest sin after the manner of the 
people’s sin, let him bring before the Lord for the sin 
that he hath sinned a young bullock without blemish 
for his sin. And he shall bring the bullock to the door 
of the tabernacle of ordinance before the Lord, and lay 
his hand upon the bullock’s head, and slay the bullock 
before the Lord. And the high priest shall take of the 
blood of the bullock and carry it into the tabernacle of 
ordinance. And the priest shall dip his finger in the 
blood, and sprinkle (some) of the blood seven times in 
the presence of the Lord before the veil of the sanctuary. 
And the priest shall put some of the blood upon the 
horns of the altar of sweet incense before the Lord in 
the tabernacle of ordinance, and all the (remaining) 
blood of the bullock he shall pour out at the foundation 
of the altar of burnt sacrifice which is at the door of the 
tabernacle of ordinance. And all the fat of the bullock 

ES 


82 TARGUM OF ONKELOS (CHAP. 


of the sin offering he shall separate from it; the fat 
which covereth the inwards, and all the fat which is upon 
the inwards, and the two kidneys, and the fat which is 
upon them that is by the flanks; and the caul that is 
upon the liver, together with the kidners, he shall re- 
move, as it was separated from the bullock of the con- 
secrated victims, and the priest shall offer it upon the 
altar of burnt sacrifice. But the skin of the bullock and 
all his flesh, with his head, and with his legs, and his 
inwards, and his food, he shall carry forth,! even the 
whole bullock, without the camp unto a clean place, toa 
place for the pouring out of ashes, and burn him upon 
wood in the fire; at the place for the pouring out of 
ashes shall he be burned. 

And if the whole congregation (keniskta) of Israel 
shall mistake, and the thing be hid from the eyes of the 
assembly, )2626/6( , and they shall have done (somewhat 
against) one of all the commandments of the Lord which 
it is not right to do, and have become guilty; when the 
sin that they have sinned is known, the assembly shall 
offer a young bullock for a sin offering, and bring him 
before the tabernacle of ordinance. -And the elders of 
the congregation shall lay their hands upon the head of 
the bullock in the presence of the Lord, and kill the 
bullock before the Lord. And the high priest shall 
bring of the blood of the bullock into the tabernacle of 
ordinance; and the priest shall dip his finger in the 
blood, and sprinkle seven times in the presence of the 
Lord before the veil. And some of the blood he shall 
put upon the horns of the altar that is before the Lord 
in the tabernacle of ordinance, and all (the rest of the) 
blood he shall pour out at the foundation of the altar of 
burnt sacrifice which is at the door of the tabernacle of 
ordinance. And all the fat he shall separate from him, 


1 Heb. text, veAotsz, “he shall cause to be carried forth.” 


ON LEVITICUS. 83‏ [.ץז 


and sacrifice at the altar. And he shall do with the 
bullock as he did with the bullock of the sin offering, so 
shall he do with him; and the priest shall atone for 
them, and it shall be forgiven them. And he shall carry 
forth? the bullock without the camp, and burn him as 
he burned the former bullock: it is a sin offering for 
the congregation. 

Should a ruler sin and do (contrary to) any of the 
commandments of the Lord his God what is not right 
to do, through ignorance, and be guilty ; when his sin 
becomes known to him in what he hath transgressed, he 
shall bring his oblation, a kid of the goats, a male, 
unblemished ; and he shall lay his hand upon the head 
of the goat, and kill him at the place where the burnt 
sacrifice is slain before the Lord; it is a sin offering. 
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering 
with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of 
burnt sacrifice,and pour out the blood at the foundation of 
the altar of burnt sacrifice. And he shall burn all the 
fat at the altar, as the fat of the sanctified oblation (is 
burned) ; and the priest shall atone on his 06291] for his 
sin, and it shall be forgiven him. 

And if one of the people of the land inadvertently sin in 
doing contrary to any of the commandments of the Lord 
what is not right to do, and become guilty ; when his sin 
is known to him, in what he hath sinned, he shall bring 
his oblation, a female kid of the goats, unblemished, for 
thesin that he hath sinned. And he shall lay his hand 
on the head of the sin offering, and kill the sin offering 
at the place of burnt sacrifice ; and the priest shall take of 
the blood with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the 
altar of burnt offering, and pour out all the blood at the 
foundation of the altar. And he shall remove all the fat, 
as he took away the fat from the consecrated offerings, and 


2 See note on p. 82. 


84 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHap. 


the priest shall burn it at the altar, to be received with 
acceptance before the Lord; and the priest shall atone 
for him, and it shall be forgiven him. But if he present 
a lamb for his sin offering, he shall bring a female 
unblemished, and lay his hand upon the head of the 
sin offering, and kill the sin offering at the place where 
the burnt sacrifice is killed. And the priest shall take 
of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it 
upon the horns of the altar of burnt sacrifice, and pour 
out all the blood at the foundation of the altar. And he 
shall remove all the fat, as he removed the fat of the 
lamb of the sanctified oblations, and the priest shall burn 
it at the altar with the oblations of the Lord; and the 
priest shall atone for him, for the sin that he hath 
sinned, and it shall be forgiven him. 

V. And if a man sin, and (one) hear the voice (which 
demands) swearing that he is a witness, or that he hath 
seen or known, if he will not show it, he shall bear his 
sin. Or if a man shall have touched anything unclean, 
whether the carcase of an unclean beast, or the carcase 
of unclean cattle, or the carcase of an uncieay reptile, 
and it be hidden from him, he shall be defiled and 
guilty. Or if he shall touch the uncleanness of a man, 
any uncleanness which defileth him, and it be hidden 
from him ; but (afterwards) becometh aware of it and is 
guilty ;—or if a man swear, declaring with his lips, for 
evil or for good, according to whatever the man shall 
declare by oath, and (the truth) be hidden from him, 
and he (afterwards) have knowledge thereof, he is 
guilty of one of these. And it shall be that when (he 
knoweth that) he is guilty in one of these (things) he 
shall confess that he hath sinned thereby ; and shall 
bring his sin offering before the Lord for the sin that 
he hath sinned; a she-lamb from the flock, or a kid of 
the goats, for a sin offering; and the priest shall atone 


v.] ON LEVITICUS. 85 


for him and for his sin. But if his hands be not suffi- 
cient to offer a lamb, let him bring for the sin that he 
hath sinned two turtle doves, or two young pigeons 
before the Lord, one for the sin offering, and one for the 
burnt sacrifice. And he shall bring them to the priest, 
and he shall offer the sin offering first, and wring off its 
head near to the spine, but he shall not divide (the 
bird). And he shall sprinkle the blood of the sin offer- 
ing upon the side (wall) of the altar, and pour out the 
remainder of the blood at the base of the altar; it isa 
sin offering. And the second he shall make a burnt 
sacrifice, according to the proper (rite) ; and the priest 
shall make atonement for the sin that he hath sinned, 
aud it shall be forgiven him. But if (neither) two tur- 
tle doves nor a pair of young pigeons pertain to him, he 
shall bring, as his oblation for the sin that he hath 
sinned, the tenth of three sein of flour for a sin offering ; 
he shall not put oil upon it, nor put frankincense upon 
it, for it is a sin offering. And he shall bring it to the 
priest, and the priest shall take a handful of it as the 
memorial thereof, and burn it at the altar with the 
oblations of the Lord: it is a sin offering. And the 
priest shall make atonement for him, for the sin that he 
hath sinned in any one of these (things), and it shall be 
forgiven him: and to the priest it shall be, as the 
mincha. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: When a 
man hath indeed falsified, but hath sinned inadvertently 
concerning things consecrated to the Lord, he shall 
bring for his trespass offering before the Lord a ram 
without blemish from the flock by its value in silver 
stiekels, in the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass 
offering. And that which he had defaulted of the holy 
thing he shall make good, and adda fifth thereupon, and 
give it to the priest; and the priest shall make atone- 


86 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cmap. 


ment for him with the ram of the trespass offering, and 
it shall be forgiven him. 

And if a man sin and do against any of the com- 
mandments of the Lord that which is not right to do, 
and know not, and sin, he shall bear his sin. But he 
shall bring a lamb unblemished from the flock accord- 
ing to the estimation for a trespass offering (or accord- 
ing to the estimation of the trespass) unto the priest ; 
and the priest shall atone for his error which he hath 
committed unwittingly, and it shall be forgiven him. 
It is a trespass offering for the sin that he hath sinned ; 
he shall offer the trespass offering before the Lord. 

VI. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saving: If a 
man sin and falsify with falsehood before the Lord, and 
deal falsely with his neighbour in a thing deposited, or 
in fellowship of hands, or by rapine or violence against 
his neighbour ; or if he have found that which had been 
lost and deny it, and swear falsely, by any one of all 
these which a man doeth and sinneth therein; it shall 
be that when he hath (so) transgressed and become 
guilty, he shall return what he hath robbed by robbery, 
or taken away by violence, or the deposit which was 
deposited with him, or the lost thing that he had found: 
or all that about which he had sworn falsely, he shall 
make it good in the capital, and add one fifth thereon ; 
unto him to whom it belongeth shall he give it on the 
day of his (offering for) guilt. And the trespass offer- 
ing that he shall bring before the Lord (must be) a ram 
unblemished from the flock according to the estimation 
of the trespass, unto the priest. And the priest shall 
make atonement for him before the Lord, and it shall be 
forgiven him for any one of all (these) in which he may 
have acted to be guilty thereby.* 


3 Sam. Vers., “ defraud with falsehood.’” 
* May have injured with guilt. 


87 אס [.ז 


SECTION XXV. 
VAIYIKRA TSAV, 


the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Instruct‏ יפא 
Aharon and his sons, saying: This is the law of the‏ 
Burnt Offering. It is burnt offering, because burned‏ 
upon the altar all night until morning, and the fire of‏ 
the altar shall be burning in it. And the priest shall‏ 
dress himself with vestments of linen, and wear drawers‏ 
of linen upon his flesh; and he shall separate the ashes‏ 
which the fire hath consumed with the barnt offering‏ 
upon the altar, and set them beside the altar. And he‏ 
shall take off his vestments, and dress himself with other‏ 
garments, and carry forth the ashes without the camp‏ 
unto a clean place. But the fire upon the altar shall be‏ 
burning on it, and never be extinguished; and the‏ 
priest shall burn wood on it from morning to morn-‏ 
ing, and lay the burnt offering in order ypon it, and‏ 
burn upon it the fat of the sanctified oblations. The‏ 
fire shall be ever burning on the altar, it shall not be‏ 
extinguished.‏ 

And this is the law of the Mincha which the sons of 
Aharon shall offer in the presence of the Lord before 
the altar. And he shall separate therefrom his handful 
of the flour of the mincha and of its oil, and all the 
frankincense that is upon the mincha, and burn it at the 
altar as its memorial to be accepted with favour before 
the Lord. And the remainder of it may Aharon and 
his sons eat, unleavened shall it be eaten in the holy 
place, in the court of the tabernacle of ordinance shall 
they eat it. It shall not be baked with leaven. Ihave 
given it as their portion of my oblations; it is most 
sacred, as the sin offering and as the trespass offering. 
All the males of the children of Aharon may eat it. 


88 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


(This) is an everlasting statute for your generations 
concerning the oblations of the Lord: every one who 
toucheth them shall be holy. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, This is 
the oblation of Aharon and his sons which they shall 
present before the Lord on the day when they anoint 
him. The tenth of three seahs of flour for a mincha 
perpetually, a half in the morning, and a half at even- 
tide. It shall be made in a pan with oil; while soft 
it shall be brought a baken mincha offered in pieces 5 
to be accepted with favour before the Lord. And of 
his sons, the priest who shall be anointed in his stead 
shall perform it. (This is) an everlasting statute before 
the Lord: it shall be burned entirely, and every mincha 
of the priest shall be entirely (burned); it is not to be 
eaten. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with Aharon and with his sons, saying, This is the law 
of the sin offering: In the place where the burnt offering 
is killed, there shall the sin offering be killed before the 
Lord ; it is most sacred. The priest who maketh atone- 
ment with its blood shall eat it; in the holy place it 
shall be eaten, in the court of the tabernacle of ordinance. 
Every one who toucheth the flesh thereof must be holy. 
And if he drop some of its blood upon a vestment, that 
which is bedropped shall be purified in the holy place. 
But the earthen vessel in which it was sodden shall be 
broken ; and if it be sodden in a vessel of brass, (that) 
shall bescoured and washed in water. Any man of the 
priests may eat thereof: it is most sacred. But no sin 
offering whose blood is brought into the tabernacle of 
ordinance to make atonement in the sanctuary may be 
eaten, but shall be burned with fire. 


* Sam. Vers., “It is an everlasting portion.” 
* Sam, Vers., “thou shalt divide it in pieces.” 


VIL. | ON LEVITICUS. 89 


VII. And this is the law of the Trespass Offering ; it 
is most holy. In the place where they kill the burnt 
offering, there shall they kill the trespass offering and 
sprinkle its blood round about; and all the fat of it shall 
be offered, with the tail and the fat which covereth the 
inwards. And the two kidneys and the fat which is upon 
them, upon the inwards, and the caul that is upon the liver, 
with the kidneys, he shall take away. And the priest 
shall burn them at the altar, an oblation before the 
Lord ; itis a trespass offering. Every man of the priests 
may eat thereof in the holy place; it is most sacred. 
As the sin offering, so the trespass offering; they have 
one law; to the priest who maketh atonement therewith 
shall it 06. And when the priest offereth a man’s burnt 
sacrifice, the skin of the sacrifice that the priest offereth 
shall be his. And every mincha that is baken in the 
oven, or made in the pan, or upon the baking pan, to 
the priest who offereth it shall it belong. And every 
mincha sprinkled with oil,and that which is not sprinkled, 
shall belong to all the sons of Aharon, to the one man 
as to his brother. 

And this is the law of the Sanctified Oblations? which 
he shall offer before the Lord. If he present it as a 
thanksgiving, he shall offer as the sacrifice of thanks- 
giving unleavened cakes sprinkled with oil, and un- 
leavened wafers anointed with oil, and baken biscuits of 
flour sprinkled with oil. With the cakes he may offer 
his oblation of leavened bread for his sanctified oblation 
of thanksgiving. And of it he shall offer one of all the 
separated oblations before the Lord: (the remainder) 
shall belong to the priest who sprinkleth the blood of 
the sanctified oblations. And the flesh of his conse- 
crated thank offering shall be eaten on the day that it is 
offered, none of it shall be covered over till the morning. 


Peace offerings.‏ ד 


90 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


But if the offering of his oblation be a vow, or a volun- 
tary gift, it may be eaten (partly) on the day that his 
sacrifice is offered, and that which remaineth of it may 
be eaten on the day after it; but what remaineth of the 
flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burned 
with fire. If the flesh of his consecrated sacrifice be 
indeed eaten on the third day, it shall not be accepted 
from him who offered it, neither shall it be reckoned to 
him ; it is an abomination,® and the man who ate of it 
shall bear his sin. And if flesh that is consecrated 
touch any thing unclean, it shall not be eaten, but be 
burned with fire. Every one who is clean by sancti- 
fication to eat the’consecrated flesh may eat the flesh 
that is consecrated. But the man who eateth of the 
flesh of sacrifices consecrated before the Lord with his 
uncleanness upon lim, that man shall be destroyed from 
his people. And the man who toucheth any thing 
unclean, whether the uncleanness of man or the unclean- 
ness of beast, or of any unclean reptile, and eateth of 
the flesh of sacrifices consecrated before the Lord, that 
man shall perish from his people. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with the sons of Israel, saying: You may not eat the 
fat of the ox or sheep or goat.. But the fat of a dead 
earcase and the fat of an animal torn by a wild beast 
may be used in any manner of work, but of it you shall 
not eat. For whosoever eateth the fat of an animal 
that they offer as an oblation before the Lord, the man 
who eateth shall perish from his people. ‘Nor in any of 
your habitations may you eat the blood of fowl or of 


beast : every man who eateth any kind of blood, that man 
shall be destroyed ® from his people. 


* Sam. Vers., “a rejected thing.” 


9 Or, “shall cease from.” Sam. Vers., “‘shall be rooted out.” 1160. 
text, “be cut off from,” “ be excommunicated.” 


Vu. | ON LEVITICUS. 91 


And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with the sons of Israel, saying: Whosoever offereth his 
sanctified victim before the Lord, let him bring the 
oblation of his sanctified victim (himself) before the Lord, 
his own hands shall bring the oblations of the Lord: 
let him bring the fat with the breast, that the breast may 
be lifted up an uplifting before the Lord. And the 
priest shall burn the fat at the altar; but the breast 
shall be for Aharon and his sons. And the right shoul- 
der (also) of your sanctified victims you shall give for 
a separation unto the priest. He of Aharon’s sons who 
offereth the blood and the fat of the sanctified victims 
shall have the right shoulder for a portion. For the 
uplifted breast and the shoulder of separation of the 
sacrifices of the Beni Israel I have given to Aharon 
the priest and to his sons by an everlasting statute } 
from the sons of Israel. 

This is the anointing of Aharon, and the anointing of 
his sons and of the Lord’s oblations, in the day that they 
present them to minister before the Lord, which the 
Lord commanded to give them in the day that they con- 
secrate them from the sons of Israel, an everlasting 
statute unto your generations. This is the law of the 
burnt offering, of the mincha, and of the sin-offering, 
and of the trespass offering, and of the oblation of the 
sanctified victims which the Lord commanded Mosheh 
in Mount Sinai, on the day when he commanded the 
sons of Israel to offer their oblations before the Lord in 
the wilderness of Sinai. 

VIII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Bring Aharon near, and his sons with him, with the 
vestments, and the oil of consecration, and the bullock 
for the sin offering, and the two rams, and the basket of 
unleavened (cakes) ; and let all the congregation gather 


1 Sam. Vers., “ for a perpetual portion.” 


92 TARGUM OF ONKELOS (cHap. 


together at the gate of the tabernacle of ordinance. And 
Mosheh did as the Lord commanded him, and the con- 
gregation was gathered together at the gate of the taber- 
nacle of ordinance. And Mosheh said to the congrega- 
tion, This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded 
to be done. 

And Mosheh brought Aharon and his sons near, and 
washed them with water; and he put upon him the vest- 
ment, and girded him with the girdle, and dressed him 
with the robe, and set upon him the ephod, and bound 
him with the band of the ephod, and ordained him there- 
with ; and set upon him the breastplate, and put in the 
breastplate the uraia and the thummaia. And he set the 
mitre upon his head, and placed on the mitre, on the 
forehead of his face, the plate of gold, the diadem of 
Holiness, as the Lord had commanded Mosheh. 

And Mosheh took the consecrating oil, and anointed 
the tabernacle and all that was in it, and sanctified them. 
And he sprinkled of it upon the altar seven times, and 
anointed the altar and all its vessels, and the laver and 
its base, to sanctify them. And he poured the oil of 
consecration upon Aharon’s head, and anointed him to 
consecrate him. 

And Mosheh brought the sons of Aharon near, and 
dressed them in the vestments, and girded them with 
girdles, and appointed them with mitres, as the Lord 
had commanded Mosheh. And he brought the bullock 
near for the sin offering, and Aharon and his sons laid 
their hands upon the head of the bullock which was the 
sin offering. And Mosheh took the blood, and put it 
upon the horns of the altar round about, with his finger, 
and purified the altar, and the blood he poured out at 
the base of the altar, and consecrated it to make atone. 
ment upon it. And he took all the fat which was upon 
the inwards, and the caul of the liver, and the two 


VIL. | ON LEVITICUS. 93 


kidneys with their fat ; and Mosheh burned them at the 
altar. But the builock, with his skin, and his flesh, and 
his food, he burned with fire without the camp, as the 
Lord commanded Mosheh. And he brought the ram 
for the burnt offering, and Aharon and his sons laid 
their hands upon the head of the ram, and he killed it, 
and Mosheh sprinkled the blood upon the altar round 
about. And the ram he divided by his members; and 
Mosheh burned the head and the members with the fat. 
And the inwards and the legs he washed with water: 
and Mosheh burned all the ram at the altar: it was a 
whole burnt offering to be received with acceptance, an 
oblation before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded 
Mosheh. And he brought the second ram of the obla- 
tions ; 2 and Aharon and his sons laid their hands on the 
head of the ram, and he killed it; and Mosheh took of 
its blood, and put it upon the tip of Aharon’s right ear, 
and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the 
toe of his right foot. And he brought the sons of 
Aharon, and Mosheh put of the blood upon the tip of 
their right ear, and upon the finger of their right hand, 
and upon the toe of their right foot; and Mosheh 
sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about. And he 
took the fat and the tail, and all the fat which is upon 
the inwards, and the caul of the liver, and the two kidneys 
and their fat, and the right shoulder: and from the 
basket of unleavened cakes that was before the Lord he 
took one unleavened cake, and one cake of bread (anointed 
with) oil, and one wafer, and set them upon the fat and 
upon the right shoulder, and put the whole upon Aharon’s 
hands and upon the hands of his sons, and uplifted them, 
an elevation before the Lord. And Mosheh took them 
from off their hands, and burned (them) at the altar upon 
the burnt offering: they were offerings to be received 


2 Sam. Vers., " 01 the completion. ” 


94 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


with acceptance, an oblation before the Lord. And 
Mosheh took the breast, and uplifted it, an elevation 
before the Lord: of the ram of the oblations it was the 
portion of Mosheh, as the Lord had commanded Mosheh. 
And Mosheh took of the oil of consecration, and of the 
blood that was upon the altar, and sprinkled upon 
Aharon, upon his vestments, and upon his sons, and upon 
his sons’ vestments with him, [and sanctified Aharon and 
his garments, and his sons and his sons’ garmei.is with 
him.]® 

And Mosheh spake to Aharon and to his sons: Boil 
the flesh at the gate of the tabernacle of ordinance, and 
eat it there with the bread which is in the basket of 
oblations, as I was commanded, saying, Aharon and his 
sons shall eat it. And that which remaineth of the 
flesh and of the bread, you shall burn in the fire. And 
from the door of the tabernacle of ordinance ye shall 
not go forth (for) seven days, until the day that the days 
of your oblation be completed; for seven days shall 
your oblations be offered, as hath been done this day, 
(as) the Lord commanded to be done to make atone- 
meut for you. And at the door of the tabernacle of 
ordinance ye shall dwell seven days and nights, and 
watch the watches of the Word of the Lord, that you 
die not; for so am I commanded. And Aharon and 
his sons did all the things which the Lord had commanded 
by the hand of Mosheh. 


SECTION XXVI. 
SHEMINI. 
IX. Anp on the eighth day Mosheh called Aharon 
and his sons and the elders of Israel. And he said unto 


Aharon, Take to thee a calf, a young bullock from the 
* The clause in brackets is not found in some copies. 


1x. ] ON LEVITICUS. 95 


herd, for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering 
unblemished, and offer before the Lord. And with the 
sons of Israel he spake, saying, Take a kid of the goats 
for a sin offering, and a calf, and a lamb of the year, 
unblemished, for a burnt offering; and a bullock and a 
vam for a hallowed offering, to sacrifice before the Lord ; 
and a mincha of flour sprinkled with oil: for this day 
will the glory of the Lord be revealed to you. 

And what Mosheh had commanded they brought 
before the tabernacle of ordinance, and all the congrega- 
tion approached and stood before the Lord. And Mosheh 
said, This is the thing that the Lord hath commanded 
to be done, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed 
to you. , 

And Mosheh said to Aharon, Approach the altar, and 
make thy sin offering and thy burnt sacrifice, and make 
atonement for thyself and for the people, and perform 
the oblation of the people, and make atonement for them, 
as the Lord commanded. And Aharon drew near to 
the altar, and slew the calf for the sin offering for himself. 
And the sons of Aharon brought the blood to him, and 
he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the 
horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base 
of the altar. But the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul 
of the liver of the sin offering he burned at the altar, as 
the Lord commanded Mosheh. And the flesh and the 
skin he burned in the fire without the camp. 

And he killed the whole burnt offering; and the sons 
of Aharon brought the blood to him, and he sprinkled it 
upon the altar round about. And they brought to him 
the whole burnt offering by its members with the head, 
and he burned upon the altar. And he washed the 
inwards and the legs, and burned with the offering at 
the altar. 

And he brought the oblation of the people, and took 


06 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHAP. 


the kid for the sin offering of the people, and killed it, 
and made atonement with its blood, as before. And he 
brought the whole burnt offering, and performed in the 
manner proper. And he took the mincha, and filled his 
hand with it, and burned it upon the altar beside the 
morning sacrifice. And he slew the bullock and the 
ram for the hallowed oblations of the people; and the 
sons of Aharon brought the blood to him, and he sprinkled 
the blood round about. Also the fats of the bullock 
and of the ram, the tail, and the covering of the inwards, 
with the kidneys, aud the caul of the liver; and they 
placed the fats upon the breast, and burned the fats at 
the altar. And the breast with the right shoulder 
Aharon uplifted, an elevation before the Lord, as the 
Lord commanded Mosheh. 

And Aharon lifted up his hands over (to) the people 
and blessed them, and came down from performing the 
sin offering, and the burnt sacrifice, and the hallowed 
oblations. And Mosheh and Aharon entered the taber- 
nacle of ordinance, and came forth and blessed the 
people; and the glory of the Lord was revealed unto all 
the people: and fire came forth from before the Lord, 
and consumed upon the altar the burnt sacrifice and 
the fats: and all the people saw, and gave praise, and 
fell upon their faces. 

X. But the sons of Aharon, Nadab and Abihu, took 
each man his censer and put fire in them, and put sweet 
incense upon it, and offered (or brought) before the 
Lord stranye fire which He had not commanded them. 
And fire came out from before the Lord and consumed 
them, and they died before the Lord. 

And Mosheh said unto Aharon, This is that which the 
Lord spake, saying, In them who approach Me I will be 
sanctified, and in the face of all the people will I be 
glorified. Aud Aharon was silent. 


x.] ON LEVITICUS. 97 


And Mosheh called to Mishael and to Elzaphan, the 
sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aharon, and said to them, 
Come nigh, and carry your brethren from before the 
sanctuary without the camp. And they came nigh, and 
.carried them in their vestments out of the camp, as 
Mosheh had spoken. 

And Mosheh said to Aharon and to Elazar and to 
Ithamar his sons, Make not bare your heads, nor rend 
your garments, lest you die, and wrath be upon all the 
congregation ; but let your brethren and all the house 
of Israel bewail the burning which the Lord hath kindled ; 
and go not forth from the door of the tabernacle of 
ordinance, lest you die; for the anointing oil of the 
Lord* is upon you. And they did according to the 
word of Mosheh. 

And the Lord spake unto Aharoa, saying: Drink not 
wine nor strong drink, neither thou nor thy sons with 
thee, when you enter into the tabernacle of ordinance, 
that you die not. It is an everlasting statute unto your 
generations, for the distinguishment between the holy 
and the common, and between the unclean and the clean; 
and that you may teach the sons of Israel all the statutes 
which the Lord hath spoken to them through Mosheh. 

And Mosheh spake with Aharon and with Elazar and 
with Ithamar his sons who were left: Take the mincha 
which remaineth of the oblations of the Lord, and eat it 
unleavened at the side of the altar, because it is most 
holy. It shall be eaten in the holy place; for it is thy 
portion, and the portion of thy sons of the oblations of 
the Lord; for so have I been commanded. Bat the 
breast of the uplifting and the shoulder of the separation 
you may eat on (any) clean place, and thy sons and thy 
daughters with thee; for it is thy portion, and the por- 
tion of thy sons, which hath been given of the hallowed 


+Sam. Vers., ‘the oil 01 excellency.”’ 
FR 


98 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


sacrifices of the children of Israel. The shoulder of the 
separation and the breast of the uplifting they will bring 
with the oblation of the fat things to uplift, an elevation 
before the Lord: and they shall be thine and thy sons’ 
with thee by an everlasting statute, as the Lord hath 
commanded. 

But Mosheh made inquiry® for the goat of the sin 
offering ; and, behold, it had been burned; and he was 
angry with Elazar and Ithamar the sons of Aharon who 
were left, saying: Why have you not eaten of the sin 
offering in the holy place, because it is most holy ; and 
He hath delivered it unto you for pardoning mercy upon 
the sin of the congregation to make atonement for them 
before the Lord? Behold, the blood of it was not 
brought in within the sanctuary: eating you should have 
eaten it within the holy (precinct), as I had commanded. 
And Aharon said to Mosheh, Behold, this day they have 
brought their sin offering and their burnt offering before 
the Lord; but such griefs as these having come upon 
me, if I had eaten of the sin offering to-day, would it 
have been right before the Lord? And Mosheh heard, 
and it was pleasing in his eyes. ® 

AI. And the Lord spake with Mosheh and to Aharon, 
saying to them: Speak with the children of Israel, say- 
ing: These are the animals which you may eat of all the 
beasts which are upon the earth. Every one that parteth 
the sole and divideth the paw (or hoof) and that 
bringeth up the cud among cattle, that you may eat. 
But these you shall not eat,—oi them that bring up the 
cud or of them that divide the hoof—the camel, because 
lie bringeth up the cud, but divideth not his hoof, he is 
unclean to you. And the coney, because he bringeth 
up the cud, but doth not divide the hoof, is unclean to 

5 * Requiring, required.” 
5 Compare the Palestinian Targum on the place. 


x1.] ON LEVITICUS. 99 


you. And the hare, because he bringeth up the cud, 
but the hoof divideth not, shall he unclean to you. And 
the swine, because he parteth the sole, and divideth the 
hoof, but cheweth not the cud, he shall be unclean to 
you. You shall neither eat their flesh nor touch their 
08109505 ; they are unclean to you. 

And these you may eat of all that are in the waters ; 
every one that hath fins and scales in the waters, in the 
seas, and in the rivers, of them you may eat. But any 
one that hath not (both) fins and scales in the seas and 
in the rivers ; every (such) reptile of the waters, and every 
living animal in the waters, shall be unto you an abomi- 
nation. An abomination shall they be to you; of their 
flesh you shall not eat, and their carcases you shall 
abhor ; whatsoever hath not (both) fins and scales in 
the waters is to be an abomination to you. 

And these shall you hold in abomination among the 
birds ; you shall not eat them, they are an abomination : 
the eagle, and the sea eagle, and the osprey, and the 
kite, and the vulture, after his kind; and every raven 
after his kind; and the ostrich, and the night bird, and 
the gull, andthe hawk, after his kind; and the owl, and 
the diver for fish, and the ibis, and the swan, and the 
green bird, and the stork, and the pica, after his kind, 
and the moorcock, and the bat. Every winged thing 
that creepeth, (or) walketh upon four,’ is an abomina- 
tion to you. Yet these you may eat, of every creeping 
thing that flieth, that walketh upon four which hath 
joints above its feet wherewith to leap upon the ground. 
Of such as these you may eat, the locust after his kind, 
and the bald locust, and the serpent-killer after his 
kind, and the grasshopper after his kind ;° but every 


7 Animals with wings, haviug more than two feet, as insects. —MEN- 
DELSSOHN. 
8 The names in the Hebrew text are arbeh, saleam, chargol, and chagab. 
Onkelos renders them by goda, rashona, chargola, and chagaba. They 
FY. 


100 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


other creeping thing that flieth having four feet is to be 
an abomination to you. And by these you will be un- 
clean ; every one who toucheth their carcases shall be 
unclean until the evening. And whosoever carrieth a 
carcase of them, shall wash his clotlies and be unclean 
until the evening ; every beast that divideth the hoof, 
but is not cloven-footed, and that bringeth ו‎ up the 
cud, is to be unclean to you; whosoever toucheth them 
shall be unclean. And every (animal) that goeth upon 
its paws, of all beasts that go upon four, shall be unclean 
to you; whoever toucheth their carcases shall be unclean 
until the evening. And whoever carrieth their carcase 
shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening; 
to you they are unclean. 

And these shall be to you unclean among the reptiles 
which creep upon the ground ;—the weasel, and the 
mouse, and the crocodile after his kind, and the field 
mouse (or ferret,) and the chameleon, and the newt, and 
the lizard, and the mole. These are unclean to you of 
all that creep; every one who toucheth them in their 
dead state shall be unclean until evening. And upon 
whatever any of them may fall in their dead state it 
shall be unclean; whether a vessel of wood, or raiment, 
or skin, or sack, everything whatever in which work is 
done, must be put mto water, and it shall be unclean 
until the evening, and must be purited. And whatever 
earthen vessel into which any of them may fall, all that 
is within (it) is polluted, and you shall break it. Any 
food for eating, upon which water (‘rom such vessel) is 
poured, shall be unclean, and all liquor which was for 


refer probably to four of the ten species of locusts, though it seems 
impossible to identify them specifically. The Mishna gives four marks 
by which a clean locust may be known: “Of locusts, all the kinds are 
clean which have four feet, tour wings, and four leaping legs, and whose 
wings cover the greatest part of the body.”—Cholin, v. 8. 


xu] ON LEVITICUS. 101 


drinking in any (such) vessel shall be unclean. And 
anything upon which a part of their dead bodies may 
have fallen shall be unclean ; oven or cooking pan, they 
shall be broken, they are unclean and shall be unclean 
to you. Nevertheless, a fountain or a pit, the place of 
a collection of waters, (into which they may have fallen,) 
shall be clean; but he who toucheth their dead bodies 
shall be unclean. And if a part of their carcase fall 
upon any seeding seed which is to be sown, it is clean; 
but if water be put upon the seed, and a part of their 
earcase fall thereupon, it is unclean to you. 

And if any one of the cattle of which you eat die, 
whosoever toucheth its carcase shall be unclean until 
the evening. And he who eateth of its carcase shall 
wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening. And 
he who may carry its carcase shall wash his clothes, and 
be unclean until the evening. And every reptile that 
creepeth upon the ground is abominable, it shall not be 
eaten. Whatsoever goeth upon its belly, and whatever 
goeth upon four, anything that hath many feet, and 
every reptile that creepeth upon the ground, גוסץ‎ 1 
not eat, for they are an abomination.? Ye shall not 
make yourselves abominable with your animals by any 
reptile that creepeth, nor make yourselves unclean, nor 
be polluted by them, lest by them you be made unclean. 
For I am the Lord your God; sanctify yourselves and 
be holy, for 1 am Holy; that you may not contaminate 
your souls with any reptile which creepeth upon the 
ground; for I am the Lord who brought you up from 
the land of Mizraim to be unto you a God; and you 
shall be holy, for 1 am Holy. 

This is the law of the cattle, and of the fowl, and of 


5 This, the forty-second, is the middle verse of the Pentateuch. The 
Masorites affirm the exact middle to be the vaw holem in the word 
gahvon, “belly.” 


102 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


every living animal that moveth in the waters, and of 
every living thing that moveth on the ground, for 
making a distinction between the unclean and the clean, 
between the animal that may be eaten, and the animal 
that may not be eaten. 


SECTION תוצר‎ 
TAZRIA. 


XII. סאג‎ the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the children of Israel, saying: A woman, 
when she hath conceived and borne a male child, shall 
be unclean seven days; according to the days for the re- 
moval of her uncleanness, (or, her seclusion from her 
uncleanness,) she shall be unclean. And on the eighth 
day he shall be circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin ; 
and she shall continue thirty and three days in the puri- 
fication of blood; no sacred thing may she touch, nor 
may she come into the sanctuary, until the days of her 
purification be completed. But if she bear a female 
child, she shall be unclean fourteen days, according to 
(the law of) her separation ; and sixty and six days she 
will remain for the purification of the blood. And when 
the days of her purification are complete, for the son or 
for the daughter, let her bring a lamb of its year fora 
burnt offering, and a young pigeon or a turtle dove for 
a sin offering, unto the door of the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance, unto the priest, who shall offer it before the 
Lord, and make atonement for her, and she shall be 
cleansed from the uncleanness of her blood. This is the 
law for her who beareth male or female. But if she find 
not her hand sufficient for (the providing of) a lamb, 
let her take two turtle doves, or two young pigeons ; 


ON LEVITICUS. 103‏ [,זזנצ 


one for the burnt offering, and the other for the sin of- 
fering, and the priest shall make atonement for her, and 
she shall be clean. 

3111. And the Lord spake with Mosheh and with 
Aharon, saying: A man, in the skin of whose flesh there 
may be an abscess, or pustule, or brightness, and it be 
in the skin of his flesh like a stroke of the leprosy, shall 
be brought unto Aharon the priest, or to one of his 
sons the priests. And the priest shall see the plague 
in the skin of the flesh, and if the hair in the affected 
spot be turned white, and the appearance of the plague 
be deeper than the skin of his flesh, it is the plague of 
leprosy ; and the priest shall inspect him and make (pro- 
nounce) him to be unclean. But if a bright spot be in 
the skin of his flesh, and the appearance be not deeper 
than the skin, and the hair be not turned white, the 
priest shall shut up the stricken (man) seven days. 
And on the seventh day the priest shall inspect him, 
and if the plague stands as it did, if the plague hath not 
increased in the skin, let the priest shut him up a second 
seven days. And the priest shall look upon him on the 
second seventh day ; and, behold, if the plague hath be- 
come obscure, and the plague hath not spread in the 
skin, the priest shall make him to be clean; it is a sore, 
and he shall wash his clothes and be clean. 

But if the diseased spot increase again in the skin 
after having been seen by the priest for his cleansing, he 
shall be brought a second time to the priest. And the 
priest inspecting, and, behold, the soreness hath in- 
creased in the skin, the priest shall make him to be un- 
clean; it is the leprosy. 

When the plague of leprosy is in a man, let him be 
brought to the priest. And the priest shall inspect him, 
and, behold, if the abscess is white in the skin, and it 
hath turned the hair white, and the sign of quick flesh 


1% TARGUM OF ONKELOS ,באס‎ 


be in the abscess, it is an old leprosy in the skin of the 
flesh, and the priest shall make him unclean, but shall 
not shut him up (to ascertain his uncleanness), for he is 
unclean. And if the leprosy increasing shall increase in 
the skin, and the leprosy cover the whole skin of the 
plague (struck man) from his head unto his feet, wher- 
ever the eyes of the priest may look, the priest shall ob- 
serve, and, behold, (if) the leprosy covereth all his flesh, 
the plagued shall be (considered) clean; the whole of 
him is turned white, he is clean. But in the day that 
quick flesh appeareth in him he shal] be unclean; and 
the priest shall observe the quick flesh, and make him 
to be unclean. The quick flesh is unclean, it is the 
leprosy. But if the quick flesh turn to be white, he 
shall come to the priest; and the priest shall observe, 
and, behold, if the plague is turned white, the priest shall 
make the plagued to be clean; he is clean. 

And if a man have in him, in his skin, an ulcer, and 
it hath healed, but in the place of the ulcer there come 
a white abscess, or a bright spot, reddish-white, let him 
show it to the priest, and the priest shall inspect, and, 
behold, if the appearance of it be deeper than the skin, 
and the hair be turned white, the priest shall make him 
to be unclean; it is the plague of leprosy increasing 
in the ulcer. But if the priest look on it, and, behold, 
the hair is not white, nor (the depth) lower than the 
skin, and it hath become obscure, the priest shall seclude 
him seven days; and if increasing it increaseth in the 
skin, the priest shall make him to be unclean; it is the 
plague. But if the spot abideth in its place, and -in- 
ereaseth not, it is a description of an ulcer, and the priest 
shall make him clean. 

Or, if a man hath in his skin a burning wound, and 
there be the sign of a glowing wound whitish-red or 
(altogether) white, the priest shall look upon it, and, be- 


XuI1.] ON LEVITICUS. 105 


hold, if the hair be white in the bright spot, and the 
appearance be deeper than the skin, it is leprosy in- 
creasing in the wound, and the priest shall make him 
unclean ; it is the plague of leprosy. But if the priest 
see it, and, behold, the hair is not white in the spot, and 
it is not deeper than the skin, and is becoming obscure, 
the priest shall seclude him seven days. And the priest 
shall look upon him on the seventh day ; if, increasing, 
it imercaseth in the skin, the priest shall make him to be 
unclean; it is the plague of leprosy. But if the spot 
abideth in its place, and doth not increase in the skin, 
but hath become obscure, it is (only) a burning sore, 
and the priest shall make him to be clean, for it is the 
sign of an inflammation. 

And if a man or a woman have a plague on the head, 
or in the beard, the priest shall inspect the plague, and, 
behold, if the appearance is deeper than the skin, and 
there is in it a thin reddish hair, the priest shall make 
him unclean; it is a scar (or scurvy), it is leprosy in 
the head or the beard. And if the priest observe the 
plague of the scurvy, and, behold, its appearance 1s not 
deeper than the skin, and the hair in it is not black, the 
priest shall seclude him who hath the plague of the 
scurvy seven days. And the priest shall inspect the 
plague on the seventh day; and, behold, if the scurf 
hath not increased, and there is no reddish hair in it, 
and the appearance of the scurf be not deeper than the 
skin, he must shave around the scurfed spot; but the 
spot itself he must not shave; and the priest shall shut 
him up (who hath) the scurf a second seven days. And 
the priest shall look upon the scurf on the seventh day, 
and, behold, if the scurf is not increased in the skin, and 
its appearance is not deeper than the skin, the priest 
shall make him clean; and he shall wash his clothes 
aud be clean. But if the scurf increase in the skin after 


PA 


106 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


that he hath been (pronounced) clean, the priest shall 
inspect him, and, behold, if the scurf be increased in the 
skin, the priest need not seek for the reddish hair; he 
is unclean. But if the scurf abide as it was, and black 
hair have sprung up in it, the scurf hath healed, he is 
clean, and the priest shall make him to be clean. 

Andif a man ora woman have in the skin of their flesh 
bright white spots, then the priest shall look, and, behold, 
if the spots in the skin of their flesh be dim white, it is 
a freckle growing in the skin; he is clean. 

And if a man’s hair fall off from his head, he is bald, but 
he is clean. And if the hair of his head fall off toward 
his face, he is partly bald, but is clean. But if in the 
baldness or partial baldness there be a whitish red scar, 
it is leprosy growing in the baldness or partial baldness. 
Then the priest shall look, and, behold, if the plague 
spot be whitish red in the baldness or the partial bald- 
ness, as the appearance of leprosy in the skin of the flesh, 
the man is a leper, he is unclean; and the priest shall 
verily make him to be unclean ; his plague is in his head. 

And the leper in whom is the plague,—his clothes 
shall be rent, and his head bared ; and, like the mourner, 
he shall be covered unto his lip, and shall cry: Be not 
made unclean! Be not made unclean! All the days 
that the plague is upon him shall he be unclean; he is 
unclean ; he shall dwell apart, his habitation shall be 
without the camp. 

The garment which hath the plague of leprosy in it, 
whether it be in a garment of woollen or of linen, 
whether in the warp or in the woof of linen or of 
woollen, or in leather, or anything made of skin: if the 
plague be green or red in the garment or in the skin, 
whether in the warp, or in the woof, or in anything of 
skin, it is a plague of leprosy, and must be showed to 
the priest. And the priest shail look at the plague, and 


XU. ] ON LEVITICUS. 107 


shut it up seven days. And he shail look at the plague 
on the seventh day ; if the plague hath increased in the 
garment, whether in the warp or in the woof, or in a 
skin, or anything made of skin for work, it is a plague 
of consuming leprosy, it is unclean. And he shall burn 
the garment, whether it be in warp or woof, of wool, or 
of linen, or anything (made) of skin, which hath the 
plague in it; for it is a consuming leprosy; he shall 
burn it in fire. But if the priest look, and, behold, the 
plague hath not increased in the garment, whether 
in warp or woof, or in anything of skin; then the priest 
shall direct, and they shall wash that wherein is the 
plague, and he shall shut it up a second seven days. 
And the priest shall look after that they have washed 
the plague, and, behold, if (the state of) the plague hath 
not changed from what it was, and the plague hath not 
increased, it is (nevertheless) unclean ; thou shalt barn 
it with fire, it is a fretting leprosy, whether in its smooth- 
ness or its roughness (2. ¢., its right or wrong side). 
And if the priest look, and, behold, the plague hath be- 
come obscure after they have washed it, he shall tear it 
out of the garment, or out of the skin, or out of the 
warp, or of the woof. And if it reappear in the garment, 
in warp or woof, or increase in any vessel of skin, thou 
shalt burn in fire that which hath the plague in it. 
And the garment, or warp, or woof, or anything of skin 
which hath been washed, and the plague hath gone 
from it, shall be dipped the second time, and shall be 
clean. This is the law for the plague of leprosy in a 
garment of woollen or linen, in the warp or the ‘voof, 
or anything of skin, to make it to be clean or unclean. 


10S TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHap. 


SECTION XXVIII. 
METSORA. 


XIV. Axp the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
This shall be the law for the leper on the day of his 
purification: He shall be brought to the priest ; and 
the priest shall go forth out of the camp, and the priest 
shall look, and, behold, if the leper be healed of his 
leprosy, then the priest shall direct that there be brought 
for him who is to be cleansed two birds, alive, clean, and 
wood of the cedar and scarlet (wood) aud hrssop. And 
the priest shall direct that one of the birds be killed in 
an earthen vessel with spring water. And he shall take 
the living bird with the cedar wood, and the scarlet, and 
the hyssop, aud dip them and the living bird in the 
blood of the bird that had been killed over the spring 
water. And he shall sprinkle it on him who is to be 
cleansed from leprosy seven times, and he shall be clean: 
and the living bird he shall send forth upon the face of 
the field. And he who is cleansed shall wash his 
clothes, and shave off all his hair,and wash himself clean 
with water, and afterward he may come into the camp; 
but he shall dwell without his tent seven days. And on 
the seventh day he shall (again) shave off all the hair of 
his head, and his beard and his eyebrows, the whole of 
his hair shall he shave off, and wash his clothes, and 
wash his flesh with water, and he shall be clean. And 
on the eighth day let him take two (he) lambs un- 
blemished, and one ewe lamb of the year unblemished, 
and three tenths of flour sprinkled with oil for a mincha, 
and one loga of 01. And the priest who maketh him 
clean shail make the man who is cleansed to stand with 
them before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of 


xiv. ON LEVITICUS. 109 


ordinance. And the priest shall take one lamb and offer 
him for a trespass offering, and the loga of oil, and shall 
uplift them an elevation before the Lord. And he shall 
slay the lamb on the place where the sin offering is 
killed, and the burnt offering, (namely,) in the holy place ; 
for as the sin, so the trespass, offering is the priest’s: 
it is most sacred. And the priest shall take some of the 
blood of the trespass offering, and the priest shall put it 
upon the tip of the right ear of him who is cleansed, 
aud upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the 
toe of his ight foot. And the priest shall take of the 
log of oil and pour it on the priest’s left hand. And the 
priest shall dip. the finger of his right hand in the oil 
which is upon his left hand, and shall sprinkle of the oil 
with his finger seven times before the Lord. And of the 
rest of the oil which is upon his hand the priest shall 
put upon the tip of the right ear of him who is cleansed, 
and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the 
toe of his right foot, upon the blood of the trespass 
offering. And the remainder of the oil which is upon 
the priest’s hand he shall put upon the head of him who 
is cleansed, and the priest shall make atonement for him 
before the Lord. And the priest shall perform the sin 
offering, and make atonement for him who is cleansed 
from his defilement, and afterwards shall he kill the 
burnt offering. And the priest shall sacrifice the burnt 
offering with the mincha at the altar, and the priest 
shall make atonement for him, and he shall be clean. 
But should he be a poor man, and his hand have not 
(so much) pertaining (to him), let him take one lamb for 
the trespass offering for the elevation to atone for him, 
and one-tenth of flour sprinkled with oil for the mincha, 
and ה‎ loga of oil and two turtle doves or two young 
pigeons which his hand may possess; and one shall be 
the sin offering, and one the burnt offering. And he 


110 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


shall bring them on the eighth day of his purification 
unto the priest, at the door of the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance before the Lord. And the priest shall take the 
lamb of the trespass offering, and the log of oil, and the 
priest shall uplift them, an elevation before the Lord. 
And he shall kill the lamb of the trespass offering, aud 
the priest shall take of the blood of the trespass offering, 
and put it upon the tip of the right ear of him who is 
cleansed, and on the finger of his right hand, and on the 
toe of his right foot. And of the oil the priest shall 
pour (some) upon the priest’s left hand ; and the priest 
shall sprinkle with his finger of the oil that is in his left 
hand seven times before the Lord. And the priest shall 
put of the oil which is in his hand upon the tip of the 
right ear of him who is cleansed, and on the finger 
of his right hand, and on the toe of his right foot, upon 
the spot of the blood of the trespass offermg. And the 
remainder of the oil which is in the priest’s hand he 
shall put upon the head of him who is cleansed, to pro- 
pitiate for him before the Lord. And he shall offer 
(perform) one of the turtle doves, or of the young 
pigeons, which his hand may possess, the one for a sin 
offering, and one for a burnt offering, with the mincha ; 
and the priest shall make atonement for him who is 
cleansed, before the Lord. This is the law for him in 
whom hath been the plague of leprosy, whose hand hath 
not had sufficiency for (the sacrifices of) his purifica. 
tion. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh and to Aharon, 
saying: When you have entered the land of Kenaan, 
which I will give unto you for a possession; and I have 
put the plague of leprosy upon a house in the land of 
your possession ; and he who owns the house shall come 
and show to the priest, saying, There is a plague, as it 
appeareth to me, in the house: the priest shall direct 


ON LEVITICUS. lll‏ [.טאזצ 


that they turn out (all that is in) the house before the 
priest goeth in to inspect the plague; that all that is in 
the house be not (condemned as) unclean; and after- 
ward the priest shall enter to survey the house. Then 
he shall look at the plague; and, behold, if the plague 
be in the walls of the house in seams, green or red, and 
they appear to be deeper than the (surface of the) wall, 
then the priest shall go out from the house to the door 
of the house, and shut up the house seven days. And 
the priest shall return on the seventh day, and look, and, 
behold, if the plague hath increased in the walls of the 
house, then the priest shall order that they take down 
the stones of the house in which the plague is, and cast 
them without the town into an unclean place. And 
they shall scrape the house within round about, and 
throw the plaster (dust) which they have scraped off 
without the town, into an unclean place. And they 
shall take other stones, and insert them in the place of 
the former stones, and shall take other plaster and 
cover the house. And if the plague return and inerease 
in the house after that the stones have been taken down, 
and after they have scraped the house, and after it hath 
been plastered (anew); then the priest shall enter, and, 
behold, if the plague hath increased in the house, it is a 
corroding leprosy in the house, it is unclean. And they 
shall break down the house, the stones of it, the timber, 
and all the mortar of the house; and he shall carry 
them! (have them carried) without the town unto an 
unclean place. And whoso goeth into the house all the 
days that it is shut up, shall be unclean until the even- 
ing. And he who may sleep in the house shall wash 
his clothes, and he who eateth in the house shall wash 
his clothes. But if the priest, having entered, shall look, 
and, behold, the plague hath not increased in the house 


1 Sam, Vers., “they shall destroy.” 


112 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [oHap. 


after the house hath been plastered, the priest shall make 
(pronounce) the house to be clean, for the plague hath 
been cured. And he shall take, to purify the louse, 
two birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop. 
And he shall kill the one bird in a vessel of pottery 
with spring water, and take the cedar wood, and the 
hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird; and dip 
them in the blood of the bird which had been killed 
and in the spring water, and sprinkle the house seven 
times. And he shall purify the house with the blood of 
tne bird, and with the spring water, and with the living 
bird, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop, and 
with the scarlet. But he shall send forth the living bird 
out of the town, upon the face of the field, and make 
atonement for the house, and it shall be clean. 

This is the law for every plague of leprosy and of 
scorbutics, and for leprosy in clothing, and in a house: 
and for abscess, and scar, and inflamed spot: to teach on 
what day it is unclean, and on what day it is purified. 
This is the law for the leprosy. 

XV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh and to Aba- 
ron, saying: Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to 
them: When any man hath a defluxion by the running 
of his flesh, he is unclean. And this shall be his un- 
cleanness by his defluxion, when his defluxion floweth 
from his flesh, or his flesh hath ceased from its flowing, 
it is (the cause) of his uncleanness. Every bed whereon 
he lieth who hath the defluxion shall be unclean; and 
anything whereon he sitteth shall be unclean. And 
whoever toucheth his bed shall wash his clothes, bathe 
himself im water, and be unclean until the evening. 
And he who sitteth ona thing whereon he who hath 
the issue hath sat shall wash his clothes, and bathe in 
water, and be unclean until the evening. And he who 
toucheth the flesh of him who hath the issue shall wash 


xv.] ON LEVITICUS. 113 


his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until 
evening. And if he who hath the issue spit upon one 
who is clean, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe in 
water, and be unclean until evening. And any saddle 
(or carriage) that he who hath the issue may ride upon 
shall be unclean; and whoever toucheth any things that 
have been under him shall be unclean until evening ; 
and he who carrieth them shall wash his clothes, and 
bathe in water, and be unclean until evening. And 
whomsoever he who hath the issue toucheth, and hath 
not rinsed his hands in water, shall wash his clothes, and 
bathe in water, and be unclean until evening. And 
every vessel of earthenware whieh he who hath the issue 
may have touched shall be broken, and every vessel of 
wood shall be rinsed in water. 

And when he who hath had a defluxion shall be 
cleansed of his issue, he shall number to himself seven 
days for his purification, and wash his clothes, and bathe 
his flesh in spring water, and be clean. And on the 
eighth day let him take two turtle doves, or two young 
pigeons, and bring before the Lord at the door of the 
tabernacle of ordinance, and give them to the priest. 
And the priest shall perform (the offering of) them; 
one for the sin, and one for the burnt, offering; and the 
priest shall make atonement for him before the Lord, for 
his issue. And if seed of copulation go out from a 
man, he shall wash all his flesh with water, and be 
unclean until evening. And any garment or any skin 
on which may be seed of copulation, shall be washed in 
water, and be unclean until evening. The woman with 
whom a man shall lie with seed of copulation, they 
shall bathe themselves with water, and be unclean until 
evening. 

1] a woman have a defluxion of blood in her flesh, 
seven days shall be for her separation, and whoso 


114 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


toucheth her shall be unclean until evening. And 
every thing on which she lieth in her separation shall 
be unclean, and any thing that she sitteth upon shall 
be unclean. And any one who toucheth her bed shall 
wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean 
until evening; and any one who toucheth a thing upon 
which she hath sat shall wash his clothes, and bathe in 
water, and be unclean until evening. And if it be on 
her bed, or any thing on which she hath sat, when he 
hath touched it, he shall be unclean until the evening. 
And if a man lie with her, and her separation be upon 
him, he shall be unclean seven days, and any bed whereon 
he lieth shall be unclean. 

And if a woman hath a defluxion of blood many days 
beyond the time of her separation, if it run bevond (the 
time) of her separation, all the days of the issue of her 
uncleanness shall be as the days of her separation; she 
shall be unclean. Any bed on which she lieth all the 
days of her defluxion shall be as the bed of her separa- 
tion, and every thing on which she sitteth shall be 
unclean as the uncleanness 01 her separation. And 
whoso toucheth them shall be unclean, and shall wash 
his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until 
evening. 

But if she be cleansed from her defluxion, then let 
her number to herself seven days, and afterward she is 
clean. And on the eighth day let her take for herself 
two turtle doves, or two young pigeons, and bring them 
to the priest at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance. 
And the priest shall make the one a sin offering, and 
one a burnt offering, and the priest shall atone before 
the Lord for the issue of her uncleanness. And (thus) 
shall you separate the children of Israel from their 
uncleanness, that they die not, by defiling My Tabernacle 
which is among them. This is the law for him who 


xvi] ON LEVITICUS. 115 


hath an issue, or whose seed goeth from him, and who 
is defiled therewith; and of her who hath an issue of 
separation ; and of him who hath a flowing issue, of the 
male and of the female, and of him who lieth with her 
who is unclean. 


SECTION ASIN, 
ACHAREY. 


XVI. Anp the Lord spake with Mosheh after the 
two sons of Aharon were dead, who offered the strange 
fire before the Lord, and died; and the Lord said unto 
Mosheh, Speak with Aharon thy brother, that he may 
not enter at any time into the Holy Place within the 
veil before the mercy-seat which is upon the ark, that 
he die not; for in the cloud will I reveal Myself over 
the mercy-seat. 

With this shall Aharon enter the holy place: With a 
young bullock for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt 
offering. With the holy linen vesture shall he be 
clothed, and linen drawers shall be upon his flesh, and 
with the linen girdle shall he be bound, and the linen 
mitre shall be upon his head: these are holy garments ; 
and he shall wash his flesh in water, and then put 
them on. 

And of the congregation of the sons of Israel let him 
take two kids of the goats for a sin offering, and one 
ram for a burnt offering. And Aharon shall offer the 
bullock of the sin offering for himself, and make atone- 
ment for himself and for the men of his house. 

And he shall take the two goats, and make them to 
stand before the Lord, at the door of the tabernacle of 
ordinance. And Aharon shall put lots upon the two 


116 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


goats; one lot for the Name of the Lord, and one lot 
for Azazel? And Aharon shall offer the goat whose 
lot came up for the Name of the Lord, and make him a 
sin offering ; and the goat whose lot came up for Azazel 
he shall make to stand alive before the Lord, to make 
an atonement upon him, and to send him away to Aza- 
zel, to the desert. 

And Aharon shall offer the bullock for his own sin, 
and make atonement for himself and for the men of his 
house; and he shall kill the bullock for the sin offermg 
which is for himself. And he shall take a censer full of 
coals of fire from off the altar before the Lord, and his 
handful of sweet incense beaten small, and carry (them) 
within the veil. And he shall put the sweet incense 
upon the fire before the Lord, and the cloud of incense 
will envelope the mercy-seat which is over the testimony, 
that he may not die. And he shall take of the blood of 
the bullock, and sprinkle it with his finger upon the 
face of the mercy-seat eastward, and before the mercy- 
seat he shall sprinkle seven times of the blood with his 
finger. 

And he shall kill the goat for the sin offering of 
the people, and enter, with its blood, within the veil, 
and do with his blood as he had done with the blood of 
the bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy-seat and 
before the mercy-seat. And he shall (thus) make atone- 
ment for the holy place on account of the uncleanness 
of the children of Israel, and the rebellion of all their 
sin. And so shall he do for the tabernacle of ordinance 
which remaineth with them in the midst of their un- 
cleanness. But no man shall be in the tabernacle of 
ordinance (at the time of) his entering to make atone- 

2 To be sent to Azazel, a steep rough mountain, (RASHT,) not far 


from Mount Sinai (EBEN Ezra), See the Talmud in Jona, 67. Com- 
pare the Glossary, pp. 66-68. 


XVI] ON LEVITICUS. 117 


ment in the holy place until his comiig out: and he 
shall atone for himself, and for the men of his house, 
and for all the congregation of Israel. 

And he shall go forth to the altar which is before the 
Lord, and make atonement for it; and take of the blood 
of the bullock and of the goat’s blood, and put upon the 
horns of the altar round about; and of the blood he 
shall sprinkle upon it with his finger seven times, and 
cleanse it and sanctify it from the uncleanness of the 
children of Israel. 

And when he hath completed to atone for the holy 
place, and for the tabernacle of ordinance, and for the 
altar, then shall he bring the living goat. And Aharon 
shall lay his two hands upon the head of the live goat, 
and confess over him all the iniquities of the étildren of 
Israel, and all their rebellions, and all their sins, and put 
them upon the head of the goat, and send him away, by 
the hand of an appointed man, to go into the desert. 
And the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities 
into a land not inhabited; and he shall send the goat 
away into the desert. 

And Aharon shall go into the tabernacle of ordinance, 
and put off the linen robes which he wore on going into 
the Holy Place, and shall lay them there aside. And he 
shall wash his flesh with water in the Holy Place, and 
put on his garments, and come forth to offer his burnt 
sacrifice, and the burnt sacrifice of the people, and make 
atonement for himself and for the people. And the fat 
of the sin offering he shall burn at the altar. 

But he who led away the goat unto Azazel shall 
wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and after- 
wards go into the camp. And the bullock of the sin 
offering whose blood was carried in to make atonement 
in the Holy Place, he shall take forth out of the camp, 
and they shall burn their skins and their flesh and their 


118 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


food with fire. And he who burned them must wash 
his clothes, and bathe his flesh with water, and may then 
enter into the camp. 

And this shall be to you for an everlasting statute : in 
the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you 
shall afflict (humble) your souls,? and do no work, 
whether the native-born or the stranger that dwelleth 
among you. For on that day he shall make atonement 
for you, to cleanse you from all your sius, that you may 
be cleansed from all your sins before the Lord. A Sab- 
bath it shall be to you, and you shall humble your souls. 
It is an everlasting statute. 

And the priest whom he shall anoint, and who shall 
offer his oblation, to minister instead of his father, shall 
make the atonement, and dress himself with the vest- 
ments of fine linen, even the consecrated vestments. 
And he shall make atonement for the Holy of Holies, 
and for the tabernacle of ordinance and for the altar he 
shall atone, and for all the people of the congregation 
shall he atone. And this shall be to you an everlasting 
statute for the expiation of all the children of Israel 
from all their sins once in the year. And he did as the 
Lord commanded Mosheh. 

XVII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying : 
Speak with Aharon, and with his sons, and with all 
the sons of Israel, and say to them: This is the word 
which the Lord hath commanded, saying: Any man of 
the house of Israel who shall kill bullock or lamb or 
goat in the camp, or who shall kill (such as sacrifices) 
without the camp, and bring it not to the door of the 
tabernacle of ordinance, that it may be offered an obla- 
tion in the presence of the Lord before the tabernacle of 
the Lord, blood shall be reckoned to that man; he hath 
shed blood, and that man shall be destroyed from his 


3 Sam. Vers., “ by fasting.” 


XVII. | ON LEVITICUS. 119 


people. In order that the sons of Israel may bring 
their victims which they (formerly) sacrificed upon the 
face of the field, before the Lord at the door of the 
tabernacle of ordinance, unto the priest, and offer them 
as consecrated oblations in the presence of the Lord. 

And the priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the 
altar of the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance, and burn the fat to be received with acceptance 
before the Lord. And they shall no more sacrifice their 
victims unto demons after which they have wandered : 
this shall be an everlasting statute to you unto your 
generations. 

And say thou to them, Whatever man of the house of 
Israel, or the stranger who sojourneth among you, who 
sacrificeth a burnt offering or a consecrated victim, and 
bringeth it not to the door of the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance, that it may be performed before the Lord, that 
man shall be 063010960 from his people. And what man 
soever of the house of Israel or of the strangers who so- 
journ among you, who shall eat any blood, I will set 
my anger* upon the man who shall have eaten blood, 
and will destroy him® from among his people. Because 
the life of flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you 
upon the altar to make atonement for your souls; for it 
IS THE BLOOD THAT ATONETH FOR THE SOUL. Therefore 
have I said to the children of Israel, Let no man of you 
eat blood, nor let the strangers who sojourn among you 
eat blood; and whatever man of the sous of Israel, or 
of the strangers who sojourn among you, that hunteth 
venison of beast or bird which may be eaten, let him 
pour out its blood and cover it in the earth (or in the 
dust) ; for the life of all flesh is its blood; it is for its 
life; and I have said to the children of Israel, You 
shall not eat the blood of any flesh, for the life of all 


4 Sam. Vers., “I will stir up my wrath.” | ל‎ “I will estirpate him.” 


120 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


fiesh is its blood; every one who eateth of it shall be 
destroyed. 

And every one who eateth of a carcase (that hath died 
of itself) or hath been torn, whether he be native born or 
of the strangers, let him wash his clothes, and bathe in 
water, and be unclean until the evening, and (then) shall 
he be clean. But if he wash not, nor bathe his flesh, 
he shall bear his transgression. 

XVIII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say unto them: I am 
the Lord your God: You shall not do according to the 
people of the land of Mizraim in which you dwelt, nor 
after the works of the people of the land of Kenaan, whither 
Tam bringing you, shall you do, neither shall you walk in 
their laws. My judgments shall you perform, and keep 
My statutes to walk inthem; I am the Lord your God. 
And you shall keep My statutes and My judgments, 
which if a man do he shall live by them an everlasting 
life. Iam the Lord. 

No man shall come nigh to any of his own flesh to 
uncover the nakedness; 1 am the Lord. The naked- 
ness of thy father, or the nakedness of thy mother, thou 
shalt not uncover. She is thy mother; thou shalt 
not uncover her nakedness. The nakedness of thy 
father’s wife thou shalt not uncover, it is thy father’s 
nakedness. The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter 
of thy father, or the daughter of thy mother, who hath 
been begotten of thy father by another wife, or of thy 
mother by another husband, their nakedness thou shalt 
not uncover. The nakedness of thy son’s daughter, or 
the daughter of thy daughter, thou shalt not uncover ; for 
they are thy nakedness. The nakedness of the daughter 
of thy father’s wife who hath been begotten of thy 
father, who is thy sister, thou shalt not uncover. The 
nakedness of thy father’s sister thou shalt not uncover; 


XVII. } ON LEVITICUS. 121 


she is of kin to thy father. The nakedness of thy 
mother’s sister thou shalt not uncover; for she is of kin 
to thy mother. The nakedness of thy father’s brother 
thou shalt not uncover; unto his wife thou shalt not 
come near; she is the wife of thy father’s brother. The 
nakedness of thy daughter-in-law thou shalt not 
uncover ; she is thy son’s wife, thou shalt not uncover 
her nakedness. The nakedness of thy brother’s wife 
thou shalt not uncover; it is thy brother’s nakedness. 
The nakedness of a woman and of her daughter thou 
shalt not uncover ; thou shalt not take the daughter of 
her son nor the daughter of her daughter to uncover her 
nakedness ; they are near of kin, it is a device of wicked- 
ness. And a wife with her sister thou shalt not take to 
cause her tribulation by uncovering her nakedness over 
her in her life (time). And unto a woman in the sepa- 
ration of her uncleanness shalt thou not come near to 
uncover her nakedness. Nor with the wife of thy 
neighbour shalt thou carnally lie to defile her. And of 
thy children thou shalt give none to transfer them to 
Molek, (or, to make them pass through to Molek,) 
neither shalt thou profane the Name of the Lord thy 
God: 1 am the Lord. And with the male thou shalt 
not lie as with the woman; it is an abhorrent thing. 
Nor with any beast shall be thy lying down to defile 
thyself with it; ueither shall a woman stand before a 
beast to permit him to prevail with her ; it is confusion.® 
Ye shall not pollute yourselves with any of these; for 
with all these have the peoples defiled themselves whom 
Tam about to drive away from before you. And the 
land (itself) is contaminated; and I will visit the guilt 
that is upon it, and the land shall vomit forth the 
inhabitants. But you shall keep My statutes and My 
judgments, and commit none of these abominations, 


5 Sam. Vers., “ it is indignation.” 


122 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


neither the native born nor the sojourners who sojourn 
among you ;—for all these abominations have been done 
by the men of the land who have been before you, and 
the land hath been polluted ;—that the land vomit you 
not out when ye defile it; as it will have cast out the 
people who were before you. For whoso committeth 
any of these abominations, the souls that do them shall 
be destroyed from among their people. And you shall 
observe the keeping of My word, that you do not 
(according to) the abominable usages which have been 
done before you, nor be corrupted by them. I am the 
Lord your God. 


SECTION XXX. 
KEDOSHIM. 


XIX. Anp the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with all the congregation of the sons of Israel 
and say to them, You shall be holy; for I, the Lord 
your God, am holy. A man shall reverence his mother 
and his father, and you shall keep the day of My Sab- 
bath: Iam the Lord your God. Turn not after idols, 
nor make molten things (for worship): 1 am the Lord 
your God. And when you offer the sacrifice of conse- 
crated things before the Lord, make the sacrifice thereof 
with your own free will. On the day that it is sacrificed 
it may be eaten, and on the following day; but that 
which remaineth on the third dar shall be burned with 
fire. If indeed it be caten on the third day, it (the 
oblation) is rejected, and shall not be accepted. And 
whoever eateth it shall bear his guilt ; for he hath pro- 
faned that which was consecrated, and that man shall be 
destroyed from his people. 

And when you reap the harvest of your land, thou 


ON LEVITICUS. 128‏ [.אזצ 


shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, and the 
gleanings of thy harvest thou shalt not gather. Neither 
in thy vineyard shalt thou (entirely) ingather, nor col- 
lect the remainder of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave 
them for the poor, and for the stranger: I am the Lord 
thy God. You shall not steal, nor prevaricate, nor be 
false, a man with his neighbour. Neither swear by My 
Name unto falsehood, nor profane the Name of thy 
God: I am the Lord. 

Thou shalt not overbear thy neighbour, nor be coer- 
cive: the hire of the hireling shall not abide with thee 
till the morning. Thou shalt not curse him who cannot 
hear, nor put a stumblingblock before him who cannot 
see, but shalt fear thy God: I am the Lord. You shall 
not deal falsely in judgment, nor accept the face of the 
poor, nor honour the face of the great; in truthfulness 
shalt thou judge thy neighbour. Thou shalt not make 
false accusations against thy people, neither stand 
against thy neighbour’s blood: Iam the Lord. Thou 
shalt not hate thy brother in thy heart: reproving, 
reprove thou thy neighbour, and contract not sin on 
his account. Thou shalt not be revengeful, nor keep 
enmity against the children of thy people, but love thy 
neighbour as thyself. I am the Lord. 

You shall observe My statutes. Thy cattle thou shalt 
not make to gender with various kinds, nor sow thy 
field with various kinds, nor let a garment of a mixture 
of woollen and linen come upon thee. And if a man 
lie carnally with a woman, and she be a handmaid 
betrothed unto (another) man, and with redemption of 
money not redeemed, nor having freedom given to her 
by an instrument of writing, the stripe shall be upon 
her; they shall not be put to death, for she was not 
free.’7 But he shall bring his trespass offering before 

7 Compare chap. xx. 10. 


G 2 


124 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHap. 


the Lord, at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, a 
ram for a trespass offering. And the priest shall make 
atonement with the ram of the trespass offering before 
the Lord for the sin that he hath sinned, that the sin 
he hath sinned way be forgiven him. 

And when you have entered upon the land, and have 
planted any (kind) of tree for eating, the fruit of it shall 
be put away (from you); three years shall it be set aside 
to be destroyed; it shall not be eaten. But in the 
fourth year all the fruit shall be consecrated for thanks- 
giving before the Lord; and in the fifth year you shall 
eat the fruit of it, that the fruit may be added (increased) 
to you. Iam the Lord your God. 

You shall not eat anything with the blood. You shall 
not use enchantments,° nor augury by the clouds. You 
shall not shave the hair on your head in a circle,® nor 
destroy the hair of thy beard, nor make a cutting for 
the dead in thy flesh ; nor imprint signatures upon you: 
Tam the Lord. Thou shalt not profane thy daughter to 
make her to become a fornicatress, lest the land become 
whorish, and the land be filled with the ways of wicked- 
ness. The days of Sabbaths, which are Mine, observe 
ve, and hold in reverence the house of My sanctuary. I 
am the Lord. Turn not after deceivers, nor inquire by 
diviners to pollute yourselves with them: I am the 
Lord your God. 

Thou shalt rise up before one who is a teacher in the 
law, and pay honour to the presence of the aged, and 
fear thy God. I am the Lord. And if a stranger 
sojourn with you in the land, you shall not oppress him. 
As one born among you shall be the stranger who 
sojourneth among you, and thou shalt love him as thy- 


% Peschito, “You shall not augur by a winged animal,” i, 6., by the 
flight of birds. 
5 Sce HERopotvs, iii., 8. 


ON LEVITICUS. 125‏ [,צצ 


self, because you were sojourners in the land of Mizraim : 
Tam the Lord your God. You shall commit no falsity 
in judgment, in rule, (or line,) in weight, or in measure. 
Balances of truth, weights of truth, a measure in truth, 
and hins of truth you shall have. Iam the Lord your 
God, who have brought you out from the land of Mizraim; 
and you shall keep all My statutes, and all My judgments, 
and do them: I am the Lord. 

XX. And the Lord spake with Moslieh, saying, 
Speak unto the sons of Israel: Whatever man of the 
sons of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel, 
giveth his offspring unto Molek,! with killing shall he 
be killed; the people of the house of Israel shall stone 
him with stones. And I will show My displeasure 
against that man, and will destroy from among his 
people, because he hath given his offspring unto Molek, 
to defile My sanctuary and to profane My holy Name. 
And if the people of the house of Israel turn away (or 
hide) their eyes from that man when he giveth his 
offspring to Molek, that they may not have to put him 
to death, I will give forth My anger against that man, 
and against his abettors, and will destroy him, and all 
who go after him, to wander after Molek, from among 
their people. And the man who turneth away after 
impostors and diviners to wander after them, I will 
set My displeasure upon that man, and will cut him off 
from among his people. But you shall be sanctified, 
and be holy; forlam your God. And you shall observe 
My statutes, and do them: I am the Lord who sanctify 
you. For the man who curseth his father or his mother 
shall be surely put to death; he hath cursed his father, 
he is guilty of death. And the man who committeth 
adultery with his neighbour’s wife shall be surely put to 
death ; the adulterer and the adulteress. And the man 


1 Molek, the Ruler = Baal. 


126 TARGUM OF ONKELOS .עס‎ 


who lieth with his father’s wife, uncovering his father’s 
nakedness, shall be surely put to death; both of them 
are guilty of death. And a man who lieth with his 
daughter-in-law, both of them shall be slain: they 
have wrought confusion, they are guilty of death. And 
aman who lieth with a man as with a woman, both of 
them have wrought abomination: they are to be surely 
put to death, of death they are guilty. And when a man 
taketh a wife along with her mother, it is wickedness ; 
both he and they shall be burned with fire ; such wicked- 
ness shall not be among you. And if a man lie with a 
beast, he shall be surely put to death, and you shall kill 
the beast. And if a woman approach to a beast to 
submit to it, the woman shall be put to death, and the 
beast ; they shall verily be killed; of death they are 
guilty. And a man who shall take his sister, the 
daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother, 
and see her nakedness, and she see his nakedness, it is 
an ignominy, and they shall be destroyed before the eyes 
of the children of their people: he hath uncovered the 
nakedness of his sister, he shall receive (the punishment 
of) his guilt. Anda man who lieth with a woman who 
is unclean, and uncovereth her nakedness, he hath 
uncovered her shame, and she hath uncovered the 
uncleanness of her blood: both of them shall be cut off 
from among their people. Neither shalt thou uncover 
the nakedness of thy mother’s sister, nor of thy father’s 
sister ; for he will have uncovered that of his near kin; 
they shall receive for their sin. And if a man lie with 
the wife of his father’s brother, he hath uncovered the 
nakedness of his father’s brother; they shall receive for 
their guilt, without children shall they die. And if a 
man take his brother’s wife,? a thing to be kept aloof 


7 The deceased brother having left children, The law in Deut. xxv. 5 
yefers to the case of a childless widow. 


ON LEVITICUS. 127‏ [,נצצ 


from, (merachaka,) he hath uncovered the nakedness of 
his brother, they shall be childless. But keep you all 
My statutes and all My judgments, and do them, that 
the land into which I bring you to dwell may not cast 
you out. You shall not walk in the laws of the peoples 
whom I drive away from before you; for they have 
committed all these things, and My Word hath abhorred 
them. But Ihave said to you, Ye shall inherit this land, 
and I will give it to you to possess it, a land producing 
milk and honey. Iam the Lord your God who have sepa- 
rated you from the peoples. And you shall make distinc- 
tion between animals clean and unclean, and between fowls 
unclean and clean, and not make your souls abominable 
by beast, or by fowl, or by any thing that creepeth on 
the ground which I have separated (as to be) unto you 
unclean. And you shall be holy before Me; for I the 
Lord am holy, and I have separated you from the nations 
to be worshippers before Me. A man or a woman with 
whom are impostures or divinations shall be verily put 
to death; with stones they shall be stoned, they are 
guilty of death. 


SECTION XXXI. 
EMOR. 


XXI. Awnp the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying : 
Speak unto the priests, the sons of Aharon, and say to 
them: Let no one be defiled among his people on 
account of the dead: yet for his kin, who is nigh to him, 
for his mother, and for his father, and for his son, and 
for his daughter, and for his brother, and for his sister, 
a virgin who is near to him, who hath no husband, for 
her he may be defiled. But a chief among his people 
(the high priest) shall not defile himself, to make him- 


128 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHar. 


self profane. They shall not make baldness on their 
heads, nor cut away the hair of their beards, nor scarify 
their flesh with marks. They shall be holy before their 
God, and shall not profane the Name of their God; for 
they offer the oblations of the Lord their God, and they 
shall be holy. They shall not take to wife a woman who 
is a harlot, or one who is corrupted, nor may they take 
a woman who hath been put away from her husband ; 
for (the priest is to be) holy before his God. Thou 
shalt consecrate him, for he is to offer the oblation of 
thy God: he shall be sacred to thee; for I the Lord, who 
sanctify you, am Holy. And if the daughter of a man 
who is a priest profane herself by becominy an harlot, 
she hath profaned the sanctity of her fatier; she shall 
be burned with fire. 

And the (high) priest who hath been consecrated 
from his brethren, upon whose head hath been poured 
the oil of consecration, and who, at the offering of his 
oblation, is arrayed with the (holy) robes, shall not make 
bare his head, nor rend his garments. Nor shall he enter 
unto any dead body, nor defile himself for his father or his 
mother. And he shall not go out from the sanctuary 
nor defile the sanctuary of his God; for the crown of 
the* anointing oil of his God is upon him. I am the 
Lord. And he shall take a wife in her virginity; a 
widow, or a divorced person, or a corrupt harlot, these 
he shall not take; but a virgin from his people shall he 
take for a wife. And his offspring he shall not profane 
among his people; for I the Lord do sanctify him. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak with 
Aharon, saying: A man of the generations of thy sons 
who hath any blemish on him shall not approach to 
offer the oblation of his God. For no man in whom js 
a blemish may come nigh; a blind man, or lame, or flat- 


3 Sam. Vers., “of the excellency.”’ 


XX11.] ON LEVITICUS. 129 


nosed, or disproportioned ; + עס‎ a man who hath a broken 
foot, or a broken hand, or who is crookbacked, or dwarf- 
ish,® or who hath a white spot in his eye,® or the scurvy, 
or ringworm, or who hath ruptured testicles. No man 
of the offspring of Aharon the priest who hath a blemish 
may approach to offer the oblations of the Lord ; having 
a blemish in him he shall not draw near to present the 
oblation of his God: yet of the sanctified oblations of 
his God, even of the most holy, he may eat: only he 
shall not enter within the veil, nor approach the altar, 
because he hath a blemish; that he profane not My 
sanctuary; for I am the Lord who sanctify them. And 
Mosheh spake with Aharon, and with his sons, and with 
all the sons of Israel. 

XXII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with Aharon and with his sons, and let them 
keep separate from’ the consecrated things of the 
children of Israel, that they profane not the Name of 
My Holiness which they (are to) sanctify before Me: 
Iam the Lord. Say to them, Any man of all the sons 
of your generations who shall touch the hallowed things 
which the children of Israel consecrate before the Lord, 
having his uncleanness upon him, that man shall perish 
before Me: I am the Lord. Any man of Aharon’s 
offspring who hath leprosy or an unclean effusion shall 
not eat of the consecrated things until he be clean; and 
whosoever tcoucheth any unclean animal, or a man whose 
seed goeth from him, or a man who toucheth any reptile 
that maketh him unclean, or a man who maketh him 
unclean by any of his uncleanness, the man who toucheth 


him shall be unclean until the evening, and may 
* Pesch. Syriac here, " or who hath the ear slit.” 
5 Or, “ whose eyebrows have fallen off.” 4 
6 Or, “having sightless eyes,” or “having white spots in his 6708. — 
10. 


7 > At the time of their uncleanness.”—RasHI. 
ו‎ 


130 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHar. 


not eat of things consecrated unless he wash his flesh 
with water. But when the sun hath gone down, and he 
shall have purified himself, he may afterward eat of the 
hallowed things, for it is his food. 

A carcase which hath been torn he may not eat, to 
defile limself therewith: I am the Lord. But let 
them keep the keeping of My word, lest they bring 
guilt upon themselves, and die for it, because they have 
profaned it: Iam the Lord who sanctify them. No 
stranger shall eat of that which is consecrated, neither a 
sojourner with a priest, or a hireling, may eat of the 
consecrated thing. But if the priest buy a person with 
a purchase of his money, he may eat of it, and he who 
hath been born in his house, they may eat of his bread. 
And the daughter of a priest, if she be married to a 
stranger, may not eat of things set apart and hallowed. 
But if the priest’s daughter be a widow, or divorced, 
and, having no child, hath returned to her father’s 
house, as in her youth, she may eat of her father’s 
meat ; but no stranger shall eat thereof. 

And if a man eat some consecrated thing through 
ignorance, he shall add a fifth unto it, and give the 
consecrated thing unto the priest. And let them not 
profane the hallowed things of the children of Israel 
which are set apart before the Lord, nor bring upon 
themselves iniquities and sins, when they eat in un- 
cleanness the things that are holy. I am the Lord, who 
sanctify them. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak with 
Aharon, and with his sons, and with all the children of 
Israel, and say to them: When any man of the sons of 
Israel, or of the sojourners in Israel, will offer the obla- 
tion of any of their vows or any of their freewill obla- 
tions which they may offer before the Lord for a burnt 
sacrifice ; that it may be acceptable from you, (let it be) 


ON LEVITICUS. 131‏ [.זדצצ 


a male without blemish, of the bullocks, or of the lambs, 
or of the goats. But whatever hath a blemish in it you 
shall not offer, for it will not be acceptable for you. 
And if aman present a consecrated victim before the 
Lord, as a vow set apart, or a freewill offering of the 
herd or of the flock, it must be perfect, to be acceptable; 
there shall be no blemish in it. Blind, or broken, or 
mutilated, or having imposthumes, or ulcers, or blotches, 
these you shall not offer before the Lord, nor of them 
present an oblation upon the altar before the Lord. 
But a bullock or a lamb that hath anything superfluous 
or deficient you may make a free will offering,® but for 
a vow it will not be acceptable. And that which is 
crushed, or rent, or worn out, or emasculated, you shall 
not offer before the Lord, nor do it? in your land. Nor 
from (the hand of) a son of the Gentiles may you offer 
an oblation to your God of any of these, because their 
corruption is in them, a blemish is in them; they will 
not be acceptable for you. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: When a 
bullock, or lamb, or goat, is brought forth, it shall be 
seven days with its dam, and on the eighth day and 
thenceforward it will be acceptable to be offered as an 
oblation before the Lord. Whether it be a cow or ewe, 
ye shall not immolate (both) her and her offspring on 
one day. And when you present a thank-offering before 
the Lord, offer it so as to be acceptable for you. It is 
to be eaten on that day, nothing shall remain of it till 
the morning. Iam the Lord. And you shall observe 
My commandments, and do them. I am the Lord. 
Nor shall you profane My holy Name, for I will be 


5 The meaning, according to the Rabbins, is, that the animal itself was 
not to be brought, but the value of it in money, to be applied to the 
repairs of the sanctuary, 0. 

9 Pesch, Syr., “nor sacrifice it.” 


132 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


hallowed among the sons of Israel. I am the Lord who 
sanctify you, who have led you forth from the land of 
Mizraim to be unto you Eloha: I am the Lord. 

XXIII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them: The 
Fesrivats of the Lord which you shall convoke as holy 
convocations, these are My festivals. Six days thou shalt 
do work, but on the seventh day is the rest of the Shab- 
bath; a holy convocation, (in it) you shall do no work. 
It is a Sabbath before the Lord in all your dwellings. 

These are the festivals of the Lord, holy convocations 
which you shall convoke in their seasons. In the first 
month, on the fourteenth of the month, between the 
suns, is the Pascha before the Lord, and on the fifteenth 
day of this month is the feast (chaggz) of unleavened 
cakes before the Lord; seven days you shall eat un- 
leavened bread. In the first day you shali have a holy 
convocation ; no laborious work shall rou do; but you 
shall offer an oblation before the Lord seven days; in 
the seventh day there shall be a holy convocation; no 
laborious work may you do. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saving: Speak with 
the sons of Israel, and say to them: When you have 
entered into the land that I will give unto you, and you 
reap its harvest, you shall bring an omera of the first of 
your harvest unto the priest, and he shall uplift the 
omera before the Lord to be accepted for you: after the 
day of the festivity (yoma taba) shall the priest uplift it. 
And you shall perform on the day of your elevation of 
the omera (the sacrifice of) an unblemished lamb of the 
year, as a burnt offering before the Lord. And the 
mincha thereof shall be two-tenths of flour mingled with 
oil, an oblation to be accepted before the Lord; and its 
libation, wine, the fourth of a hin. Neither bread, nor 
parched corn, nor green ears shall you eat until this day 


EXUL | ON LEVITICUS. 133 


when you bring the oblation of your God; an everlast- 
ing statute unto your generations in all your dwellings. 

And count to you, after the festival day, from the day 
that you brought the omera of the elevation, seven weeks, 
complete shall they be. Until the (day) after the seventh 
week number fifty days, and (then) offer a new mincha 
before the Lord. Bring from your dwellings two loaves 
for an elevation, two cakes, of two-tenths of flour shall 
they be, baked with leaven, as first fruits before the 
Lord. And with the bread you shall offer seven un- 
blemished lambs of the year, one young bullock, and 
two rams; they shall be a burnt offering before the 
Lord, with their mincha and their libation, to be received 
with acceptance before the Lord. And you shall make 
one of the goats (a sacrifice) for a sin offering, and two 
lambs of the year for consecrated offerings. And the 
priest shall uplift them with the bread of the first fruits 
an elevation before the Lord; with the two lambs they 
(the loaves) shall be consecrated before the Lord for the 
priest. And on this same day you shall proclaim (that) 
it shall be a holy convocation to you. Ye shall do no 
work of labour. (This is) an everlasting statute in all 
your dwellings unto your generations. 

And when you reap the harvest of your land, thou 
shalt not entirely finish the corner of thy field in thy 
reaping, nor shalt thou gather up the gleanings of thy 
harvest ; for the poor and for the stranger thou shalt 
leave them: I am the Lord your God. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak with 
the sons of Israel, saying: In the seventh month! you 
shall have a (season of) Rest ; a memorial of the Trumpet, 
a holy convocation ; no work of labour shall you do, 
but offer an oblation before the Lord. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saving: But on the 


1 Tishri, September. 


134 TARGUM OF ONKELOS. [CHAP. 


tenth day of this seventh month shall be the Day of 
Atonement (Yoma de Kippuraia, the Day of Expiations) ; 
a holy convocation you shall have, and afflict (or humble) 
your souls,? and offer the oblation before the Lord. 
And סא‎ work 5 may you do on that same day, for it is 
the Day of Atonement, to make an atonement for you 
before the Lord your God. For every man who will 
not humble himself + on that same day, shall be cut off 
from his people. And any man who doeth any work on 
that same day, I will destroy that man from among his 
people. No work shall you do: an everlasting statute 
unto your generations, in all your dwellings. A Sabbath 
of rest shall it be to you, and ye shall humble your 
souls, on the ninth of the month at evening: from 
evening to evening you shall rest your rest.° 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying : Speak with 
the sons of Israel, saying: On the fifteenth day of this 
seventh month (shall be) the Feast of Bowers,® seven 
days before the Lord. On the first day a holy convoca- 
tion; no work of labour may you do. Seven days you 
shall offer oblations before the Lord; on the eighth day 
you shall have a holy convocation, and offer an oblation 
before the Lord. You shall be gathered together; no 
work of labour may you do. 

These are the Festivals of the Lord which you shall 
proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an oblation 
before the Lord, a burnt sacrifice, and a mincha, and a 
consecrated offering, and libations (according to) the 
directory of the day, on its day. Beside (or except) the 
Sabbaths of the Lord, and beside your gifts, and beside 

? Sam. Vers., “by fasting.” 

5 Not even the preparation of food; the fast being absolute. 

* Sam. Vers., “will not fast.” 

5 Tenuchua neyachakun, Heb., Tishebethu shabbatekem, 


6 Or “shades; Chaga di-metalaia. Heb., chag ha-sukkoth, “feast 
of booths, or tabernacles.” 


XXIV. ] ON LEVITICUS. 135 


all your vows, and beside all your freewill offerings 
which you present before the Lord. Also on the fifteenth 
day of the seventh month, when yon have gathered in 
the produce of the ground, you shall solemnize a feast 
of the Lord seven days. On the first day there shall be 
rest, and on the eighth day rest. And you shall take to 
you on the first day the fruit of the orange (or citron) 
tree,’ and branches of palms,® and myrtles, and willows 
of the brook, and rejoice before the Lord your God 
seven days. And solemnize it, a feast before the Lord, 
seven days in the year; it is an everlasting statute unto 
your generations; in the seventh month shall you 
solemnize it. In bowers shall you dwell seven days; 
every one who is native born in Israel shall dwell (or 
sit) in the bowers: that your generations may know 
that I made the children of Israel to dwell under the 
shadow of clouds when I brought them forth from the 
land of Mizraim. I am the Lord your God. And 
Mosheh declared the order of the Festivals of the Lord, 
and taught them to the sons of Israel. 

XXIV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, 
Instruct the sons of Israel to bring to thee oil of olives, 
pure (and) beaten, to give light, to make the lamps burn 
continually. Outside of the veil of the testimony in the 
tabernacle of ordinance, shall Aharon order it from 
evening till morning before the Lord continually; an 
everlasting statute unto your generations. Upon the 
pure candelabrum shall he order the lamps before the 
Lord continually. And thou shalt take flour, and pre- 
pare twelve cakes; two tenths shall be for one cake. 
And thou shalt place them in two rows (orders), six in 
an order, upon the pure table before the Lord. And 
thou shalt put pure frankincense upon (each) order, and 
it shall be for Bread of Memorial, (Lechem leadkara,) an 

+ Heb,, “the tree hadar.” Onkelos, 27006 ethrogia. 8 Lulabin. 


136 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


oblation before the Lord. From Sabbath day to Sabbath 
day he shall order it before the Lord continually, from 
the offerings of the children of Israel, an everlasting 
statute. And it shall be for Aharon and for his sons, 
that they may eat it in the holy place; for it is most 
sacred to him of the oblations of the Lord by an ever- 
lasting statute. 

And the son of a woman, a daughter of Israel, but 
he was the son of a 211218100 man, went out among the 
children of Israel; and the son of the Israelite woman, 
and a man, a son of Israel, liad contention in the camp. 
And the son of the woman the daughter of Israel gave 
expression to the Name, and execrated. And they 
brought him unto Mosheh. And the name of his 
mother was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibree, of the 
tribe of Dan. And they bound him in the house of 
confinement, until it should be explained to them by the 
decree of the Word of the Lord. And the Lord spake with 
Mosheh, saying: Bring forth him who hath imprecated 
without the camp, and let all who heard lay their hands 
upon his head, and let all the congregation stone him. 
And speak thou with the sons of Israel, saying: What- 
ever man imprecateth before his God shall bear his 
guilt, and he who (so) expresseth the Name of the Lord, 
dying shall die, and all the congregation shall stone 
him, as well the stranger as the native born; when he 
hath made (blasphemous) expression of the Name, he 
shall be put to death. 

And the man who killeth any soul of man shall die, 
being put to death. And he who killeth the life of a 
beast shall make it good, life for life. And if a man 
inflict a blemish on his neighbour, as he hath done, so it 
shall be done to him: bruise for’ bruise, eye for eye, 
tooth for tooth, as he hath inflicted a blemish upon a 
man, it shall be done to him. And he who killeth a 


ON LEVITICUS. 187‏ [.טאצצ 


beast. shall make it good; but he who killeth a man 
shall be put to death. One judgment shall you have, 
for the stranger as for the native born shall it be; for I 
am the Lord your God. And Mosheh spake with the 
sons of Israel, and they brought out the blasphemer 
without the camp, and stoned him with stones; and the 
sons of Israel did as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 


SECTION XXXII. 
BEHAR SINAI. 


Anp the Lord spake with Mosheh in the‏ .אאא 
mountain of Sinai, saying: Speak with the children of‏ 
Israel, and say to them: When you have entered into‏ 
the land that I will give you, the land shall have rest by‏ 
an intermission (skemet shemittha) before the Lord. Six‏ 
years thou shalt sow thy field, and six years prune thy‏ 
vineyard, and gather in its fruit; but in the seventh‏ 
year the land shall have a respite of rest (meach she-‏ 
mittha),a respite before the Lord ; thou shalt not sow‏ 
thy field nor prune thy vineyard. The after crop of thy‏ 
harvest thou shalt not reap, neither make vintage of the‏ 
grapes which thou mayest have left, it shall be a year of‏ 
remission to the land. Yet the remission of the land?‏ 
shall be to thee for food, to thee, and to thy servant,‏ 
and to thy handmaid, and to thy hireling, and to the‏ 
sojourner who dwelleth with thee. And for thy cattle,‏ 
and for the beasts that are in thy land, shall all the‏ 
produce of it be for meat.‏ 

And number to thee seven (such) years of Release, 


9 The produce of the laud during the time of remission.—RasuI, EBEN 
Ezra. For the whole year it was common property, and not the owner’s 
exclusively. 


188 TARGUM OF ONKELOS (CHAP. 


which are seven times seven years; and the days of the 
seven years of release shall be to thee (in all) forty and 
nine years. And thou shalt make the sound of the 
trumpet to pass forth, in the seventh month on the tenth 
of the month, on the day of the expiations shall you 
make (the sound of) the trumpet to pass through all 
your land. And you shall sanctify the year of the fifty 
years, and proclaim liberty in all the land to all its 
inhabitants ; it is and it shall be a jubilee to you; and 
each man shall return to his inheritance, and each to his 
family shall return. A jubilee shall that year of fifty 
years be to you. Ye shall not sow nor reap the after 
crop, nor make vintage of the remainder, for it is a 
jubilee ; it shall be sacred to you; of the growth of the 
field you may eat. In the year of this jubilee a man 
shall return to his inheritance. 

And when thou sellest a sale to thy neighbour, or 
buyest of thy neighbour’s hand, you shall not impose, a 
man upon his brother. For the number of the years 
after the (last) jubilee thou shalt buy of thy neighbour; 
for the number of the years of the produce he shall sell 
to thee: according to the multitude of the years thou 
shalt increase the price, and according to the fewness of 
the years thou shalt diminish the price; for he selleth 
thee the amount of the fruits. And you shall not im- 
pose, a man upon his neighbour; but thou shalt fear 
thy God, for 1 am the Lord your God. And you shall 
perform My statutes, and keep My judgments, and do 
them, and dwell in the land in security. And the land 
shall yield her fruitage, and you shall eat unto the full, 
and dwell upon it in security. And if you say, What 
shall we eat in the seventh year; behold, we are not to 
sow, nor to gather in our fruit? I will command My 
benediction upon you in the sixth year, and it shall pro- 
duce for three years. And you shall sow in the eighth 


xxv.] אס‎ LEVITICUS. 139 


year, and eat of the old produce unto the ninth year: 
until the fruit come in, you shall eat of the old. 

But you may not sell the ground absolutely : for the 
land is Mine, for you are guests and sojourners before 
Me ; and in all the land of your inheritance you shall 
let the ground have redemption. 

When thy brother hath become poor, and shall have 
sold his possession, his redeemer who is of kin to him 
may come and release that which his kinsman has sold. 
And if he have no one to release it, and it pertaineth to 
his hand to find sufficient means for its redemption ; 
then let him reckon the years of its sale, and restore the 
full amount to the man who bought it, that he may re- 
turn to his possession. But if his hand find not suffi- 
ciency to give him, the (property) sold shall be in 
the hand of the buyer until the year of Jubilee, 
and shall go out in the Jubilee, and return to his pos- 
session. 

And if a man sell a dwelling house in a town sur- 
rounded with a wall, he may redeem it within the full 
year of the sale of it; within that time shall be its re- 
demption. But if it be not repurchased when the whole 
year is completed, the house that is in the walled town 
shall belong absolutely to him who bought it for his 
generations; it shall not go out at the Jubilee. But the 
houses of the villages which have no wall round about 
them shall be accounted as the field of the land; they 
may be redeemed, or shall go out at the Jubilee. 

And the cities of the Levites, the houses of the cities 
of their inheritance, may be always redeemed by the 
Levites (or, be a perpetual redemption for the Levites). 
And (so of him) who purchaseth of the Levites, the pur- 
chased house in the city of their possession shall go out 
at the Jubilee; for the houses of the cities of the Levites 
are their inheritance among the sons of Israel. Buta 


140 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


field in the suburbs of their cities may not be sold; for 
it is an everlasting possession for them. 

And if thy brother hath become poor, and his hand 
waver with thee, then thou shalt strengthen him, and he 
shall be a guest and a sojourner with thee. Thou shalt 
not take from him any usuries,! nor interest (increase), 
but shalt fear thy God, and let thy brother live with 
thee. Thou shalt not give him thy money for usury,! 
nor thy food for increase. I am the Lord your God, 
who brought you out from the land of Mizraim, to give 
you the land of Kenaan, and to be your God. 

And if thy brother hath become poor with thee, and 
hath sold himself to thee, thou shalt not make him do 
the works of slaves, but as a hired man and an inmate 
shall he be with thee; until the year of Jubilee shall he 
serve with thee: then shall he go out from being with 
thee, he and his children with him, and return to his 
family and to the inheritance of his fathers. For they 
are My servants, whom I brought out from the land of 
Mizraim ; they shall not be sold as the selling of bond- 
men. Thou shalt not make him serve with rigour, but 
shalt fear thy God. Thy bondmen and thy handmaids 
thou shalt have from the Gentiles who are about thee; 
from them thou mayest obtain bondmen and handmaids. 
And also from the sons of the uncircumcised strangers 
who sojourn with you, of them and of their children 
who are with you which are born in the land, you may ob- 
tain a possession, and may make them an inheritance for 
your children after you to inherit them for a possession 
to serve them perpetually ; but among your brethren 
the sons of Israel no man shall make his brother labour 
with hardness. And if the hand of an uncircumcised 
sojourner with thee wax strong, and thy brother with 
thee become poor and sell himself to the uncircumcised 

1 Sam. Vers., “ From him thou shalt not take double.” 


ON LEVITICUS. 141‏ [,נטצצ 


sojourner with thee, or to an Aramite of the race of the 
stranger, after that he is sold he may have redemption ; 
one of his brethren may redeem him. Either his father’s 
brother, or the son of his father’s brother, may redeem 
him ; or any one of kin to the flesh of his family may re- 
deem him; or if his hand be able, he may redeem him- 
self, And he shall reckon with his purchaser from the 
year that le sold himself, unto the year of Jubilee, and 
the money of his payment shall be according to the 
number of the years, according to the days of an hireling 
shall it be with him. If the years be yet many, accord- 
ing to them shall he give the price of his redemption ; 
or if but few years remain unto the year of Jubilee, he 
shall compute with him, and according to the years shall 
give for his redemption. As a hireling year by year 
shall he be with him; he shall not work him with rigour 
before thine eyes. But if he be not redeemed within 
those years, he shall go out at the year of Jubilee, 
he and his children with him. For the sons of Israel 
are My servants; they are servants whom I brought out 
of the land of Mizraim: I am the Lord your God. 

XXVI. You shall make to you no idols, nor image, 
nor set up for you a statue; nor a stone for worship 
shall you make on your land to worship upon it, for I 
am the Lord your God. The days of my Sabbaths you 
shall keep, and reverence the house of my sanctuary: 1 
am the Lord. 


SECTION XXXII. 
BECHUKKOTHAI. 


Ir you walk in My statutes, and observe My com- 
mandments and perform them, then will I give you 


142 1416031 OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


rains in their season, and your land shall yield her pro- 
duce, and the tree of the field its fruit. And for you 
the threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vint- 
age shall reach unto the shooting forth of the seed; and 
you shall eat your bread with sufficiency, and dwell safely 
in your land. And I will give peace in the land, and 
you shall inhabit, and no one (be among you) who dis- 
turbeth. And I will make the evil beast to cease from 
the land, neither shall they who destroy with the sword 
pass through on your land, And you shall chase your 
adversaries, and they shall fall before you by the sword. 
And five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of 
you put a myriad to flight, and your adversaries shall fall 
before you by the sword. For 1 will have regard to you? 
in my Word, to do you good, and will add to you, and 
multiply you, and establish My covenant with you. And 
you shall eat the old of the old, and shall turn out 
the old before the new. And I will set My Tabernacle 
among you, and My Word shall not reject you. And 1 
will make My Shekinah to dwell among you, and I will 
be to you Eloha, and you shall be a people before Me. 
I am the Lord your God who brought you out from the 
land of Mizraim, that you should not be bondmen to 
them; and I brake off the voke of the Gentiles from 
you, and brought you into hiberty.? 

But if you will not be obedient to My Word, nor 
perform all these commandments ; and if you despise My 
statutes, and your soul abhor My judgments, so as not 
to do all My commandments, by your making My cove- 
nant of no effect, (or, by your changing My covenant,) I 
also will do this unto you: I will visit you with trou- 
ble, wasting, and burning, with darkness of eyes, and 
exhaustion of soul; and ye shall sow your seed in vain, 


? Sam. Vers., “I will be propitious.” 
3 Sam. Vers., “ brought you into covenant with Me.” 


XXVI.] ON LEVITICUS. 143 


for your enemies shall eat it. And I will reveal My an- 
ger against you, and you shall be broken before your 
enemies ; they that hate you shall reign over you, and 
ye shall flee when no one pursueth you. And if yet with 
these ye will not obey My Word, I will add sevenfold 
chastisement upon your sins. And I will break the 
glory of your power, and will make the heavens above 
you obdurate as iron, to give no rain, and the ground 
beneath you hard as brass in yielding no fruit; and your 
strength shall be put forth in vain, for your ground will 
not yield its produce, nor the tree of the earth its fruit. 
And if you will walk on frowardly before Me, and will 
not turn again to obey My Word, I will add to bring 
upon you a stroke sevenfold (heavier) according to your 
sins. And I will send the beast of the wilderness against 
you, and it shall devour you, and consume your cattle, 
and diminish you, and make your ways desolate. And 
if through these (calamities) ye will not be corrected by 
My Word, but will walk before Me with hardness (of 
heart), I also will proceed with you in hardness,* and will 
smite you, even I, sevenfold for your sins. And I will 
bring upon you those who kill with the sword, who shall 
take vengeance upon you in punishment for your trans- 
gressions against the words of the lav. And you will 
congregate in your cities ; but I will send forth the pesti- 
lence among you, and you shall be delivered into the 
hands of your enemies. When I shall have broken for 
you the support of food, ten women will prepare your 
bread in one oven, and return your bread by weight, and 
you will eat, but will not be satisfied. And if with this 
you will not be obedient to My Word, but will walk be- 
fore me with obstinacy, I will proceed with you with 
strengthened anger, and will chastise you, even I, seven- 
fold for your sins. And ye shall eat the flesh of your 
ו‎ + Sam. Vers., “relentlessly.” 


144 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHaP. 


sons, and the flesh of your daughters will you eat. And 
I will destroy your high places, and cut down your 
images, and will throw your carcases upon the car- 
cases of your idols, and My Word shall abhor you. 
And I will make your cities a waste, and lay waste 
your sanctuary, and accept no more the offering of your 
congregation. And I will make your country a wilder- 
ness, and your enemies who will dwell in it shall spread 
desolation upon it. And I will disperse you among the 
nations, and draw out after you them who kill w ith the 
sword, and your country shall be a desert and your cities 
awaste. Then shall the land enjoy her repose all the 
days in which it shall be a desert, and you be in the 
land of your enemies: so shall the land repose, and en- 
joy her remission: all the days of its desolateness it 
shall rest ; because it did not rest in your times of inter- 
mission, when you were inhabitants upon it. And to 
the heart of those of you who are left in the land of 
their enemies will I send brokenness, and they shall flee 
at the sound of a falling leaf; they shall flee as flying 
from before those who kill with the sword, and fall, 
while no man pursueth. They shall thrust, one man 
against his brother, as (fugitives) from before them who 
destroy with the sword, while no one is pursuing, and 
ye shall have no power against your adversaries ; and ve 
shall perish among the 0 and the land ‘of your 
enemies shall consume you. And they who are left of 
you shall pine away in your sins, in their adversaries’ 
land, aud for their sins, also, the evil deeds of their 
fathers which their own hands hold fast, shall they pine 
away.® 

But, if they will confess their sins, and the sins of 
their fathers, and their falseness with which they have 
acted falsely before My Word, and that they have walked 

5 Sam. Vers., “ they shall be crucified,” 


Xxvu.] ON LEVITICUS. 145 


before me in obduracy, (while) I also have dealt against 
them with sharpness, and brought them into the land of 
their enemies; when then their stout heart shall be 
broken, and they concur with (the punishment of) their 
sins, I will remember my covenant with Jacob, and my 
covenant with Izhak, and also my covenant with Abra- 
ham will 1 remember, and I will remember the land. 
But the land shall be left by them, and shall enjoy her 
repose while made desolate for them, and they shall re- 
ceive (the punishment of) their sins; curses instead of 
blessings will 1 have brought upon them who had cast 
away My judgments, and whose soul had abhorred My 
statutes. Yet, even in the land of their enemies I will 
not strike them down, nor cast them away to consume 
them utterly, and to make My covenaut with them to 
change; for i am the Lord their God. But I will re- 
member the former covenant with them whom I brought 
out of the land of Mizraim in the eyes of the nations, 
that I might be their God. Iam the Lord. 

These are the statutes and judgments and laws which 
the Lord appointed between His Word and the sons 
of Israel, in the mountain of Sinai, by the hand of 
Mosheh. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying:‏ .11 צ א 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them: When‏ 
a man setteth apart a votive offering, (it shall be) by‏ 
estimation of the life before the Lord. If it be the‏ 
valuation for a male from twenty years to sixty years‏ 
old, the valuation shall be fifty shekels of silver, in the‏ 
shekel of the sanctuary. And if a female, the valuation‏ 
shall be thirty shekels. And if the age be from five‏ 
years to twenty years, the valuation for a male shall be‏ 
twenty shekels, and for a female ten shekels. And if the‏ 
age be from a month unto five years, the valuation for a‏ 
shall be five shekels of silver, and for a female‏ 0 


uw 


146 TARGUM OF ONKELOS CHAP. 


three shekels of silver shall be the valuation. But if 
(the age) be sixty years and upwards, for a mele the 
valuation shall be fifteen shekels, and for a female ten 
shekels. But if he be too poor (for the sum of) his 
valuation, then he shall stand before the priest, and the 
priest shall make valuation for him upon the word of 
that which the hand of him who maketh the vow may 
possess; so shall the priest make his estimate. 

And if it be an animal of which (some portion) wili 
be offered an oblation before the Lord, all that he giveth 
of it before the Lord shall be sacred; he shall not alter 
it or change it, good for bad, or bad for good; and if 
he will indeed change animal for animal, both it and 
that for which it is changed shall be sacred. And if it 
be any unclean animal, of which none may be offered an 
oblation before the Lord, he shall present the animal be- 
fore the priest, and the priest shall value it, whether 
good or bad; according to the estimate of the priest so 
shall it be. And if he will redeem it, then he shall add 
the fifth upon its value. 

And when a man shall sanctify his house, to be con- 
secrated before the Lord, the priest shall value it, whether 
good or bad; as the priest shail value it, so shall it stand. 
And if he who had consecrated it will redeem his house, 
then let him add the fifth of the price of its value upon 
it, and it shall be his. - 

And if a man consecrate a field of his possession be- 
fore the Lord, its valuation shall be according to (the 
quantity of) its seed; if sown with barley, a measure® 
shall be (valued at) fifty shekels of silver. If he conse- 
crate his field from the year of Jubilee, it shall stand 
according to its value. But if he consecrate his field 
after the year of Jubilee, the priest shall reckon the 
money with him according to the years which remain 

° Kor. Web., Chomer =seventy-iive gallons. 


XXVIL.] ON LEVITICUS. 147 


until the (next) year of Jubilee, and it shall be abated 
from the valuation. But if he will redeem the field that 
he had consecrated, let him add to it a fifth of its 
valuated price, and it shall be confirmed to him. But if 
he will not redeem the field, or if he have sold the field 
to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more: but 
the field, when it would have gone out at the Jubilee, 
shall be consecrated before the Lord as a field devoted 
(hekel cherema); the possession of it shall be to the 
priest. And if a man will consecrate before the Lord a 
field which he hath bought, and which is not of the fields 
of his inheritance, then the priest shall reckon the sum 
(receipt) of its value until the year of Jubilee, and he 
shall give the price of it in that day, a holy thing before 
the Lord. In the year of Jubilee the field shall return 


land had belonged. And every valuation shail be in the 
shekel of the sanctuary, twenty maheen before the Lord. 

Moreover, the first-born among cattle which is to be 
a firstling before the Lord, no man may consecrate, 
whether ox or sheep; it is the Lord’s already. And if 
it be an unclean animal, then he shall redeem it accord- 
ing to its valuation, and add one fifth thereto: or if it 
be not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to 
its valuation. Nevertheless, no devoted thing which a 
man shall have devoted before the Lord of all that 
he hath of man or of beast and of the field of his pos- 
session may be sold or redeemed; every devoted thing 
is most sacred before the Lord. No devoted one who 
is devoted (or accursed) of men, (as the criminal doomed 
to death,) shall be redeemed; being slain, he shall be 
killed. 

And all the tythe of the land, whether of the seed of 
the land or of the fruit of the tree, is the Lord’s; it is 
sacred before the Lord. But if a man will redeem any 


₪ זד 


146  TARGUM OF ONKELOS ON LEVITICUS. [C. וצצ‎ 


of his tythe, a fifth shall he add upon it. And every 
tything of oxen or sheep, whatever passeth under the 
tything rod, shall be sacred before the Lord. He shall 
not choose between the good and bad, neither shall he 
change it. But if he will commute it, both it and that 
for which it was exchanged shall be consecrate, and not 
be redeemed. 

These are the commandments which the Lord com- 
manded Mosheh for the children of Israei, in the moun- 
tain of Sinai. 


END OF THE 142601 OF ONKELOS ON THE BOOK 
VAIVIARA. 


THE TARGUM OF PALESTINE 


COMMONLY ENTITLED 


THE TARGUM OF JONATHAN BEN UZZIEL, 


ON THE 


BOOK OF LEVITICUS. 





SECTION OF THE TORAH XXIV. 
TITLE VAIYIKRA. 


I. Ayp it was when Mosheh had completed to 
erect the tabernacle that Mosheh reasoned and judged 
in his heart, and said: To Mount Sinai, whose excel- 
lency is the excellence only of an hour, and its holiness 
the holiness but of three days, I could not ascend till 
the time that the word was spoken to me; but the ex- 
cellence of this the tabernacle of ordinance is an eternal 
excellency, and its holiness an everlasting holiness ; 
therefore is it right that I should not enter within it 
until the time that I am spoken with from before the 
Lord. Then did the word! of the Lord call unto 
Mosheh, and the Word? of the Lord spake with him 
from the tabernacle of ordinance, saying: 

[Jervsaten Targus. And it was when Mosheh had 
completed to erect the tabernacle, to anoint it, and sanc- 
tify it, and all its vessels, that Mosheh reasoned in his 
heart, and said: Within Mount Sinai, whose majesty 


1 Dibbura, “ oracle.” 2 Memra. 


150 TARGUM OF PALESTINE | sap. 


was the majesty of an hour, and its holiness the holiness 
of an hour, I might not ascend till tie time which was 
bidden me from before the 12020 ; nor into the taberna- 
cle of ordinance, whose srsjesty is an eternal majesty, 
and its holiness an everlasiing ncuiness, is it right for 
me to enter till the time tia. i 2m bidden from before 
the Lord. And the Word of the Lord called to Mosheh ; 
for the Word of the Lord was altogether with him, from 
the tabernacle of ordinance, saying :] 

Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them: If 
a man of you,—but not of the rebellious worshippers of 
idols,—bring an oblation before the Lord, (it must be) 
from the clean cattle, from the oxen or from the sheep ; 
but not from the wild beasts may you offer your obla- 
tions. If his oblation be a burnt offering of oxen, he 
shall bring a male unblemished to the door of the taber- 
nacle of ordinance, and offer him to be accepted for him- 
self before the Lord. And he shall lay his right hand 
with firmness upon the head of the sacrifice, that it may 
be acceptable from him to propitiate on his behalf. And 
the slayer shall kill the ox at the place of slaughter be- 
fore the Lord, and the sons of Aharon the priesi shall 
bring the blood in vessels, and sprinkle the blood which 
is in the basins round about the altar that is at the door 
«? the tabernacle of ordinance. And he shall take away 
the skin from the sacrifice, and divide him according to 
his members. ([Jervusatem. And he shall skin the 
holocaust, and divide him by his members.}] And the 
sons of Aharon the priest shall put fire upon the altar, 
and lay wood in order upon the fire; and the priests the 
sons of Aharon shall lay the members in order and the 
heart and the covering of the fat upon the wood that is 
on the fire upen the altar. And he shall wash the in- 
wards and his legs with water; and the priest shall offer 
the whole upon the altar of burnt offering, an ablation 


1,[ ON LEVITICUS. 11 


to be accepted with grace before the Lord. [Jmrusauex. 
And he shall wash.] And if his oblation be of the flock, 
whether of the lambs or of the young goats, he shall 
bring a male unblemished. And the slayer shall kill it 
at the foot of the altar on the north side, before the 
Lord, and the priests the sons of Aharon shall sprinkle 
the blood that is in the basins upon the altar round about. 
And he shall divide it by its members, its head and its 
body, and the priest shall set them in order on the wood 
which is upon the fire on the altar. And the inwards and 
his legs he shall wash with water, and the priest shall 
offer the whole and burn it at the altar of burnt sacrifice ; 
it is an offering to be received with grace before the Lord. 

And if his oblation before the Lord be of birds, he 
shall bring his oblation from the turtle doves or the 
young of pigeons; but of the turtle doves he shall bring 
the largest, and of the pigeons the young ones. And 
the priest shall offer it upon the altar, and shall wring 
off its head, and burn upon the altar, and press out its 
blood at the side of the aitar. And he shall remove its 
gullet and the contents thereof, and throw it by the 
eastern side of the altar in the place where they burn 
the cinders. [JEnusaLzm. And the priest shall bring it to 
the side of the altar, and twist off its head, and lay it in 
order upon the altar, and press out its blood at the 
bottom of the altar. And he shall remove its ventricle 
with the dung, and throw it by, on the east of the altar 
at the place where the cinders are emptied.] And he 
shall cut it between its wings, but not to sever the 
wings from it; and the priest shall burn it at the altar 
upcn the wood which is on the fire: it is a sacrifice, an 
oblation to be received with favour before the Lord. 
[Jercsatey. And he shall cut it through its wings, but 
not to .ssever; and the priest shall lay it in order upou 
the sitar, on the wood that is upon the fire. ] 


152 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


II. But when a man will offer the oblation of a 
mincha before the Lord, his oblation shall be of meal 
flour, and he shall pour oil upon it, and put incense 
thereon, and bring it to the priests the sons of Aharon ; 
and he shall take from thence his hand full of the meal 
and of the best of the oil, with all the frankincense ; and 
the priest shall burn the goodly memorial at the altar, 
an oblation to be accepted with grace before the Lord. 
And what remaineth of the mincha shall be Aharon’s 
and his sons’, most holy among the cblations of the 
Lord. And when thou wilt offer the oblation of 8 
mincha of that which is baked in the oven, it shall be 
cakes of flour, unleavened and mixed with oil, and wafers 
unleavened, which are anointed with oil. [JrnusaLe. 
And wafers unleavened.} And if thy oblation of a 
mincha be from the pan, it shall be of flour mingled with 
oil, unleavened shall it be. He shall break it in pieces, 
and pour oil thereupon. It isamincha. [JervsaLex. 
And he shall break it in pieces, and pour oil thereon. ] 
And if thy oblation be a mincha from the gridiron, it 
shall be made of flour broiled with oil. And the mincha 
which hath been made with the flour and the oil thou 
shalt bring in before the Lord, and the man who 
bringeth it shall present it to the priest, and the priest 
shall take it to the altar. And the priest shall separate 
from the mincha a memorial of praise, and burn it at 
the altar, an oblation to be accepted with grace before 
the Lord. And what remaineth of the mincha shall be 
for Aharon and his sons, it is most holy among the 
oblations of the Lord. But no mincha which thou 
offerest to the Lord shalt thou make with leaven; for 
neither leaven nor honey mayest thou offer as an obla- 
tion before the Lord. 

When thou offerest an oblation of first fruits before 
the Lord, the bread of the first fruits thou mayest bring 


III. ] ON LEVITICUS. 153 


leavened, and the dates in the season of first fruits, and 
the fruit with its honey thou mayest bring, and the 
priest may eat them; but they shall not burn them at 
the altar as an oblation to be received with favour. 
And every oblation of thy mincha thou shalt salt with 
salt ; thou shalt not withhold the salt of the covenant of 
thy God from thy mincha, because the twenty and four 
gifts of the priests are appointed with a covenant of 
salt; therefore salt shalt thou offer with all thy obla- 
tions. And if thou wilt present a mincha of first fruits 
before the Lord, (ears of wheat) roasted by fire, roasted 
four and meal of barley shalt thou offer as a mincha of 
thy first fruits. And thou shalt put olive oil upon it, 
and lay fraukincense thereon; it is a mincha, And 
the priest shall burn its memorial of praise from the 
meal and from the best of the oil, with all the frank- 
incense, an oblation before the Lord. 

111. And if his oblation be of the sanctified victims,® 
if from thy cattle he offer, whether male or female, 
he shall offer it perfect. And he shall lay his right 
nand firmly on the head of his oblation, and the slayer 
shall kill it at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, 
and the priests the sons of Aharon shall sprinkle the 
blood upon the altar round about. And of the sanc- 
tified victim, his oblation before the Lord, he shall offer 
the covering of fat which covereth the inwards, even all 
the fat which is upon the inwards. And the two kidneys, 
and the fat which is upon them, that is, upon the 
folding, and the caul that is upon the liver with the 
kidneys, he shallremove. And the sons of Aharon shall 
offer it on the altar with the sacrifice that is on the wood 
which is upon the fire, an oblation to be received with 
favour before the Lord. And if his oblation of a con- 
secrated offering before the Lord be from the flock, 

3 Peace offerings. See Glossary. 


- 


Ho 


154 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


whether male or female, his oblation shall he perfect, 
If he present a lamb for his oblation, he shall bring it 
before the Lord; and lay his right hand firmly on the 
head of his oblation, and the slayer shall kill it before 
the tabernacle of ordinance, and the sons of Aharon 
shall sprinkle its blood upon the altar round about. 
And of the offering of his consecrated oblation he shall 
offer the best of its fat, and remove the whole of the 
tail, close to the spine, the covering of fat which 
covereth tue inwards, even all the fat that is upon the 
inwards, [Jervsatey. And the fat and the entire breast 
to the chine he shall remove, and the fat which covereth 
the inwards.] And the two kidneys and the fat which 
is upon them, upon the foldings, and the caul that is 
over the liver, together with the kidneys, he shall take 
away. And the priest shall sacrifice it at the altar, the 
meat of an oblation before the Lord. 

And if his oblation be from the young goats, he shall 
uring it before the Lord, and lay his right hand upon 
its head, and the slayer shall kill it before the taber- 
nacle of ordinance, and the sons of Aharon shall sprinkle 
its blood upon the altar round about. And of his obla- 
tion before the Lord he shall offer the covering of fat 
which covereth the inwards, even all the fat that is upon 
the inwards. And the two kidneys and the fat which 
is upon them (and) on the foldings, and the caul which 
is over the liver, along with the kidneys, he shall take 
away. And the priest shall sacrifice them at the altar, 
the meat of an oblation to be received with favour. All 
the fat (shail be offered) befure the Lord. It is an ever- 
lasting statute unto all your generations, that neither 
the fat nor the blood shall be eaten in any of your 
dwellings, but upon the back of the altar it shall be 
sacrificed unto the Name of the Lord. 

TV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 


iv.] ON LEVITICUS. 255 


with the sons of Israel, saying : When a man hath sinned 
inadvertently against any of the commandments of the 
Lord (in doing) what ought not to be done, and he 
hath done it against any one of them: if the high 
priest who is consecrated with oil hath sinned,—as 
when he hath offered a sin offering for the people not 
according to the rite,—he shall bring for his sin a young 
bullock unblemished before the Lord for a sin offering. 
He shall bring in the bullock to the gate of the taber- 
nacle of ordinance, to the presence of the Lord, and lay 
his right hand upon the head of the bullock, and the 
slayer shall kill the bullock before the Lord. And the 
high priest who is anointed with oil shall take of the 
blood of the bullock, and carry it into the tabernacle of 
ordinance; and the priest shall dip his fingers in the 
blood, and sprinkle the blood seven times in the presence 
of the Lord hefore the veil of the sanctuary. [JzRtsa- 
LEM. And the priest shall dip his fingers, and sprinkle 
some of the blood seven times.] And the priest shall 
put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar of 
sweet incense that is before the Lord in the tabernacle 
of ordinance, and all the rest of the blood of the bullock 
he shall pour out at the foundation of the altar of burnt 
sacrifice which is at the gate of the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance. And all the fat of the bullock of the sin offer- 
ing he shall separate from him, the covering of fat which 
covereth the inwards, even all the fat which is upon the 
inwards. And the two kidneys, and the fat which is 
upon them, upon the folding, and the caul that is upon 
the liver, with the kidneys, he shall remove. As it was 
separated from the bullock of the consecrated sacrifice, 
so shall (these things) be separated from the lambs and 
from the goats, and the priest shall burn them upon the 
altar of burnt offering. And all the skin of the bullock, 
and his flesh with his head and with his legs, and his 


156 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


inward parts and his dung, the whole of the bullock he 
shall carry forth into a clean place without the camp, to 
a place where the cinders are poured out, and shall 
burn him with wood in the fire, at the place where 
cinders are poured out shall he be burned. 

And if the whole congregation of Israel have erred, 
and the thing hath been hidden from the sight of the 
congregation in doing inadvertently against one of the 
commandments of the Lord what was not right to be 
done, and (thus) have sinned; and the sin which they 
have sinned be made known to them ; the congregation 
shall offer a young bullock as a sin offering, and shall 
bring him before the tabernacle of ordinance. And 
twelve of the elders of the congregation, the counsellors 
(amarkelin) appointed over the twelve tribes, shall lay 
their hands firmly upon the head of the bullock, and 
the slayer shall kill the bullock before the Lord. Aud 
the high priest shall carry some of the blood of the 
bullock into the tabernacle of ordinance. And the 
priest shall dip his finger into the blood, and sprinkle 
some thereof seven times in the presence of the Lord 
before the veil; and he shal! put some of the blood 
upon the horns of the altar that is before the Lord within 
the tabernacle of ordinance, and all the (residue of the) 
blood he shall pour out at the foundation of the altar 
of burnt offering which is at the door of the tabernacle 
of ordinance. And all the fat he shall separate from 
him, and burn at the altar. And he shall do with the 
bullock as he did with the bullock for the sin of the 
high priest, so shall he do with him. And the priest 
shall atone for them, and it shall be forgiven them. 
And the bullock shall be carried forth without the 
camp and be burned, as the former bullock of the high 
priest was burned, that through it the sin of Israel 
may be forgiven. It is asin offering for the congregation. 


Iv.] ON LEVITICUS. 157 


At what time the ruler of his people shall have 
sinned, and done against any of the commandments of 
the Lord his God that which ought not to have been 
done, and he hath sinned through ignorance; if his sin 
that he hath sinned be made known to him, he shall 
bring for his oblation a kid of the goats, a male, 
unblemished ; and he shall lay his right hand firmly 
upon the head of the goat, and the slayer shall kill him 
ai the place of the sacrifice of the burnt offering before 
the Lord. It isasin offering. And the priest shall take 
of the blood of the sin offering upon his finger, and put it 
on the horns of the altar of burnt sacrifice, and he shall 
pour out the blood at the foundation of the altar of burnt 
sacrifice. And all the fat he shall burn at the altar, as 
was the fat of the sanctified oblations; and the priest 
shall atone for him on account of his sin, and it shall 
be forgiven him. 

And if a man of the people of thie land sin through 
ignorance in doing (against) one of the commandments 
of the Lord what was not right to do, and he hath 
sinned; if his sin that he hath sinned be made known 
to him, he shall bring for his oblation an unblemished 
female of the goats for the sin that he hath sinned; and 
he shall lay his right hand on the head of the sin offer- 
ing, and kill the sin offering at the place of burnt 
sacrifice ; and the priest shall take of the blood with 
his fingers, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt 
sacrifice, and pour out all the blood at the foundation 
of the altar. And he shall remove all her fat, as the 
fat of the consecrated sacrifices was taken off, and the 
priest shall burn it at the altar, to be received with 
acceptance before the Lord; and the priest shall atone 
for him, and he shall be forgiven. 

But if he bring a lamb as his offering for sin, he 
shall bring a female, unblemished ; and lay his right 


158 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


hand on the head of the sin offering, and kill it as an 
oblation for sin, at the place of burnt sacrifice. And 
the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering, and 
put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt sacrifice, 
and pour out all the blood at the foundation of the 
altar, And all the fat he shall remove, as the fat of the 
lamb of the sanctified victims was removed, and the 
priest shall burn it at the altar with the oblations of the 
Lord, and the priest shall make atonement for him on 
account of the sin that he hath sinned, and it shall be 
forgiven him. 

VY. When a man shall have sinned, and heard the 
voice of the oath of execration, or have been hitiself a 
witness, or shall have seen that one of the world hath 
transgressed against the words of an oath, or shall have 
known that his companion hath sworn or imprecated 
vainly, if he show it not, he shall bear lus sin. Or if a 
man touch anything unclean, whether the carcase of an 
unclean beast, or a carcase of unclean cattle, or the car- 
ease of an unclean reptile, and it be hidden from him, 
and he, being unclean, shail touch any consecrated 
thing, he is guilty. Or if he touch the uncleanness of 
a man, even whatever uncleanness that defileth him, 
and it be hidden from him, and he touch anything con- 
secrated,—after that it is discovered by him, and he 
knoweth that he is defiled and not clean, he shall be 
guilty. Orif a man shall swear to make declaration 
with his lips to do evil or good [JERusarex. To do evil 
or good] upon any matter upon which a man may affirm, 
whether of the present or the future, that he can make 
declaration by oath, and he falsify there, and it be 
hidden from him, but afterward it be discovered +0 him, 
and he know that he hath falsified, and he repent not; 
though he hath become guilty in any one of these, if 
he shall have (thus) sinned in any one of these four 


v.] ON LEViTICUS. 159 


things, but afterwards repent, he shall make confession 
of the sin by which he hath sinned. And he shall 
bring the oblation of his trespass offering to the Pre- 
sence of the Lord for the sin that he hath sinned, a 
female lamb of the flock, or a kid of the goats, for a sin 
offering; and the priest shall atone for him (that he 
may be absolved) from his sin. But if his hand find 
not sufficiency to bring a lamb, let him bring, as an 
offering for the trespass that he hath committed, two 
large turtle doves or two young pigeons before the 
Lord; one for a sin offering, and one for a burnt sacri- 
fice. And he shall bring them to the priest, who shall 
offer that which he may choose for the sin offering 
first: and he shall wring its head near to the spine, 
but not separate its head from the neck; and he shall 
sprinkle some of the blood upon the side of the altar, and 
pour out the remainder of the blood at the foot of the 
altar: itisasin offering. And of the second bird he shall 
make a burut sacrifice, according to the rite, with the 
bird which he had chosen for the sin offering, and not 
according to the rite for the bullock, or the lamb, or 
the young goat. And the priest shall expiate him from 
the sin that he hath sinned, and it shall be forgiven 
him. But if lus hand find not sufficiency to bring two 
large turtle doves or two young pigeons, let him bring 
as an oblation for sin a tenth part of three sein of flour 
for a sin offering; but let him not put oil thereon nor 
frankincense, for it is a sin offering. And he shall 
bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take a hand- 
ful for a commendable memorial thereof, and burn it at 
the altar with the oblations of the Lord: it is a sin 
offering. And the priest shall atone for his sin that he 
hath sinned, and it shall be forgiven him. And the 
remainder shall be a mincha to the priest. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: When a 


100 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [ CHAP. 


man falsifieth with falsity and sinneth, though with 
inadvertence, in making misuse of the holy things of 
the Lord, he shall bring the oblation for his trespass to 
the presence of the Lord, an unblemished ram from the 
flock, with an estimation in silver according to the value 
of the holy thing which hath been misappropriated, in 
shekels, after the shekels of the sanctuary, for a tres- 
pass offering. And the misuse of the holy thing by 
which he sinned, (the perversion of what was) sancti- 
fied, he shall make good, and shall add the fifth of its 
value unto it, and bring it to the priest who shall atone 
for him with the ram of the trespass offering, and it 
shall be forgiven him. 

If a man sin, and do against any one of all the com- 
mandments of the Lord that which is not right to do, 
though he knew it not, he hath sinned, and shall bear 
his guilt; but (when he hath discovered it), let him 
bring a ram unblemished from the flock according to 
his estimation for a trespass offering unto the priest ; 
and the priest shall atone for him for the ignorance 
with which he erred ignorantly and sinned, and it shall 
be forgiven him. It is an oblation for trespass. 
Whosoever hath become guilty, a trespass oblation let 
him bring, an oblation for trespass unto the Name of 
the Lord, for the sin that he hath sinned. 

VI. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
When a man sinneth and falsifieth with falsehoods unto 
the Name of the Word of the Lord, or denieth to his 
neighbour the deposit which hath been deposited with 
him, whether in partnership of hands, or by rapine, or 
reckless dealing with his neighbour; [JERUsaLeM. Or 
shall be contumacious (or slanderous) with his neigh- 
bour;] or if he find a thing that hath been lost 
and denieth it, and sweareth falsely about any one of 
all these by which a man in doiny them shall become 


vi] ON LEVITICUS. 161 


guilty, le who shall thus transgress, and sin, and swear, 
shall restore what he hath robbed with robbery or 
injured by injury, or the deposit that was deposited 
with him, or the lost thing which he had found, or 
whatsoever about which he had sworn with falsehood, 
he shall make good in the capital, and shall add a fifth 
of its value thereto, and deliver it to its owner on the 
day that he maketh penance for his sin. And he shall 
bring an oblation for his trespass to the presence of the 
Lord; a male unblemished from the flock, according to 
its estimation for the trespass, (shall he bring) unto the 
priest. And the priest shall atone for him before the 
Lord, and it shall be forgiven him concerning any one 
of all these which he may have done and become guilty. 


SECTION XXV. 
VAIYIKRA TSAV. 


Anp the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, Instruct 
Aharon and his sons, saying, This is the law of the 
burnt offering which is brought to make atonement for 
the thoughts (errors) of the heart: it is a burnt offer- 
ing which is made in (the manner of) the burnt offer- 
ing at Mount Sinai, and abideth upon the place of 
burning on the altar all the night until the morning: 
for the fire of the altar shall be burning in it. And the 
priest shall dress himself in vestments of linen, and 
put drawers of linen upon his flesh; (Jurusazes. 
Drawers ;] and shall separate the ashes which the fire 
(maketh) in consuming the burnt oifering upon the 
altar, and shall place them at the side of the altar. 
And he shall take off his vestments and put on other 


162 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


garments, and carry forth the ashes without the camp 
into a clean place. But the fire upon the altar shall 
burn upon it unextinguished, and the priest shall lay 
wood upon it from morning to morning, at four hours 
of the day, and shall set in order the barat ~i"ering 
upon it, and burn upon it the fat of the 53.16.1161 obla- 
tions. The fire shall be ever burning upon the altar ; 
it shall never be extinguished. 

And this is the law of the Mincha, which the priests, 
the sons of Aharon, shall offer in the presence of the 
Lord before the altar. And he shall separate his hand- 
ful of the flour of the mincha, of the best thereof, with 
all the frankincense which is upon the mincha, and 
burn it at the altar to be received with favour, as a 
memorial of praise before the Lord. And that which 
remaineth of it shall Aharon and his sons eat; unlea- 
vened shall they eat it in the holy place, in the court of 
the tabernacle of ordinance shall they eat it. Their 
portion of the residue of the mincha of My oblations 
given to them shall not be baked with leaven; it is 
most sacred, as the sin offering and as the trespass 
offering. Every man of the sons of Aharon may eat of 
it. This is an everlasting statute for your generations 
concerning the oblations of the Lord: every one who 
toucheth them must be sanctified. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: This is 
the oblation of Aharon and of his sons, which they are 
to offer before the Lord on the day that they anoint 
him, that he may possess the inheritance of the high - 
priesthood. A tenth of three seahs of fine flour for a 
mincha, one half in the morning and a half at even- 
tide. Thou shalt make it upon a pan, mixed with olive 
oil shalt thou offer it ; in divided pieces shalt thou offer 
the mincha, to be received ‘with acceptance before the 
Lord. [Jerusatem. Fried shalt thou offer it; broken 


vil. | ON LEVITICUS. 163 


in pieces shalt thou offer the mincha, a sweet savour of 
acceptableness unto the Name of the Lord.] And the 
high priest who is anointed with oil, (and also when 
(any one) of his sons who are constituted priests (is 
consecrated) in his place,) shall perform this: it is an 
everlasting statute before the Lord: the whole shall be 
set in order and burned. For every mincha of the 
priest shall be wholly set in order and consumed: it 
shall not be eaten. 

and the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with Aharon and with his sons, saying: This is the law 
of the sin offering which is to be killed in the place 
where the burnt offering is killed; it shall be slain as a 
sin offermg before the Lord; it is most sacred. The 
priest who maketh atonement with blood may eat of it 
in the holy place; it shall be eaten in the court of the 
tabernacle of ordinance ; whosoever toucheth the flesh of 
it must be sanctified. And if any one let some of its 
blood fall upon a garment, (the garment so) bedropped 
shall be washed in the holy place. And every earthen 
vessel in which (the flesh of it) is boiled shall be broken, 
lest that which is common be boiled in it; or if it be 
boiled in a vessel of brass, it shall be scoured with 
potter’s earth and washed in waters. Every man of the 
priests may eat thereof; it is most sacred. But no sin 
offering whose blood is carried into the tabernacle of 
ordinance to make atonement in the sanctuary may be 
eaten; it must be burned with fire. 

VII. And this is the law of the Trespass Offering ; it 
is most holy. In the place where they kill the burnt 
sacrifice they shall kill the trespass offering, and the 
blood thereof shall he sprinkle upon the altar round 
about. And he shall offer all the fat thereof, and the 
tail, and the fat which covereth the inwards; and the 
two kidneys, and the fat which is upon them, and upon 


164 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [onap. 


the inwards. And the caul that is upon the liver and 
upon the kidneys shall he take away; and the priest 
shall burn them at the altar, an oblation before the 
Lord: it is a trespass offering. Every man of the 
priests may eat of it, in the holy place shall it be eaten ; 
it is most sacred. As the rite of the sin offering, so is 
the rite of the trespass; there is one law for them: the 
priest who maketh atonement with its blood shall have 
it. And when the priest offereth another man’s burnt 
sacrifice, the skin of the burnt sacrifice which he offereth 
shall be the priest’s. And every mincha which is baked 
in the oven, and every one that is made in a pot, or ina 
frying pan, or upon a dish, the priest who offereth it 
shall have it for his own. And every mincha mixed 
with oil, or which is dry, shall be for any of the sons of 
Aharon, a man as his brother. 

And this is the law of the Sanctified Victims which 
they may offer before the Lord. If he offer it for a 
thanksgiving, let him offer with the oblation of thanks 
unleavened cakes mingled with olive oil, and unleavened 
wafers anointed with olive oil, and flour fried with a 
mixture of olive 01. [JerusaLem. Onerule.} Upon 
the cakes he shall offer his oblation of leavened bread 
with the hallowed sacrifice of thanksgiving. And of it 
he shall present one as a separation before the Lord; 
the priest who sprinkleth the blood of the hallowed 
sacrifice shall have it. And the flesh of his hallowed 
sacrifice of thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day when 
it is offered; none of it may be laid up (or covered up) 
until the morning. 

But if his hallowed sacrifice be a vow or a free-will 
gift, the sacrifice may be (partly) eaten on the day when 
it is offered, and the remainder may be eaten on the day 
following at evening. And what remaineth of the flesh 
of the hallowed sacrifice on the third day shall be burned 


vu.] ON LEVITICUS. 165 


in tire. If, eating, he will eat of the flesh of his hallowed 
sacrifice on the third day, it shall not be accepted of him 
who offered it, nor reckoned to him for righteousness ; 
it will be a profane thing, [Jerusazes. It will be a 
profane thing,] and the man who eateth of it shall bear 
his sin. And if the flesh of things hallowed touch any 
uncleanness, it must not be eaten, but be burned in 
fire; but (as to) flesh that is consecrated, every one who 
is clean by sanctification may eat the hallowed flesh. 
But the man who eateth of the flesh of the hallowed 
sacrifice that is offered before the Lord with his unclean- 
ness upon him, that man shall be destroyed from among 
his people. The man also who toucheth any unclean 
thing, whether the uncleanness of man, or of unclean 
beasts, or any unclean reptile, and eateth of the flesh of 
the hallowed sacrifices offered before the Lord, that man 
shall be cut off from his people. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with the sons of Israel, saying: You may not eat any 
fat of oxen, or sheep, or goats; but the fat of an animal 
which corrupteth in the hour of sacrifice, or which dieth 
a dead thing by death, or the fat of a beast that is torn, 
may be used in any work; but the fat of an animal that 
is in a right (condition) shall be burned upon the altar, 
aud shall in no wise be eaten. For he who eateth (the 
fat) of an animal that is fit to be offered as an oblation 
before the Lord, that man who eateth the fat shall be cut 
of from his people. In none of your dwellings shall 
you eat the blood whether of bird or of beast. Lvery 
man who eateth the blood of any living thing, that man 
shall be cut off from his people. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with the sons of Aharon, saying: Whosoever presenteth 
his hallowed sacrifice before the Lord, shall himself bring 
the oblation of his hallowed sacrifice unto the presence 


166 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


of the Lord. His hands shall bring the oblations of 
the Lord which he would sct apart as his hallowed 
sacrifice, the fat, the fatness that is upon the breast, and 
the breast cut out with two ribs here and two ribs there 
at the top, shall he bring to be uplifted, an elevation 
before the Lord. [Jenvsarem. His own hands shall 
bring in the oblation of the Lord: the fat which is upon 
the breast he shall give it, and the breast, to wave it a 
wave offering before the Lord.}] And the priest shall 
burn the fat upon the altar, and the breast shall be for 
Aharon and for his sons. [Jervsateu. The breast.] 
And the right shoulder of your hallowed sacrifice from 
the side unto the extremity (deroa, arm) you shall give 
as a separation unto the priest. He of the sons of 
Aharon who offereth the blood and the fat of the hallowed 
sacrifice shall have the right shoulder as his portion. 
For the uplifted breast and the shoulder of separation 
have I taken of your hallowed sacrifice, and given them 
to Aharon the priest and to his sons by an everlasting 
statute, from the children of Israel. This pertaineth to 
the consecration of Aharon and to the consecration of 
his sons over all the Levites their brethren, that they 
may eat of the Lord’s oblations in the day that they 
present them to minister before the Lord; which the 
Lord commanded to be given them in the day of their 
consecration from among the sous of Israel, by an ever- 
lasting statute to your generations. 

This is the law of the burnt offering which is brought 
to atone for the thoughts of the heart ; of the mincha, 
of the sin offering, of the trespass offering, and of the 
peace offering, or the hallowed sacrifices which the Lord 
commanded Mosheh in Mount Sinai, in the day that 
he commanded the sons of Israel to offer their oblations 
before the Lord in the tabernacle that he made unto 
him in the wilderness of Sinai. 


vit. ] ON LEVITICUS. 167 


VIII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Bring near Aharon who is afar off on account of the work 
of the calf; and take the vestments that I commanded 
thee, and the oil of consecration, and the bullock, and 
the two rams, with the basket of unleavened cakes. And 
let all the congregation gather together at the gate of 
the tabernacle of ordinance. 

And Mosheh did as the Lord commanded, and the 
congregation assembled on the twenty and third of the 
days of the month of Adar, at the gate of the tabernacle 
of ordinance. And Mosheh said to the congregation: 
This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded to be 
done. And Masheh took Aharon and his sons, and 
washed them with water. And he set in order upon 
him the vestment, and girded him with the girdle, and 
clothed him with the mantle robe, and put upon him 
the ephod, and bound him with the band of the ephod, 
and ordained him therewith. And he set the breast- 
plate upon him, and ordered in the breastplate the 
uraia and the tummaia. And he put the mitre upon 
his head, and set upon the mitre over his forehead the 
plate of gold, the diadem of holiness, as the Lord 
commanded Mosheh. And Mosheh took the oil of con- 
secration, and anointed the tabernacle, and sanctified it. 
And he sprinkled upon the altar seven times, and sanc- 
tified the altar and all its vessels, and the laver and its 
foundation to sanctify them. And he poured of the oil 
of consecration upon Aharon’s head, and anointed him 
after he had invested him, to sanctify him. 

And Mosheh brought near Aharon and his sons, and 
clothed them with vestments, and girded them with 
girdles, and decked them with mitres, as the Lord com- 
manded Mosheh. And he brought the bullock for the 
sin offering, and Aharon and his sons laid their right 
hands upon the head of the bullock, for their sin 


168 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


offering. And Mosheh killed the bullock: and Mosheh 
took the blood and put it upon the horns of the altar 
round about with his finger, and anointed the altar (to 
explate it) from all double-mindedness, constraint, and 
force, from the thoughts of his heart, should any one of 
the princes of the sons of Israel have taken his separa- 
tion from his brethren by violence, and brought it for 
the work of the tabernacle,* or lest any one was found 
among the children of Israel who had it not in his 
heart to bring for the work, but heard the voice of the 
crier, and was constrained, and brought without willing- 
ness; therefore cleansed he it with the blood of the 
bullock, and poured the rest of the blood at the foot of 
the altar, and sanctified it to make atonement thereon. 
And he took all the fat that was on the inwards, and 
the caul of the liver, and the two kidneys with their fat, 
and Mosheh burned them at the altar. But the bul- 
lock, and the skin, and his flesh, and his offal, he burned 
in fire without the camp, as the Lord commanded 
Mosheh. 

And he took the ram for the burnt offering, and 
Aharon and his sons laid their right hand upon the head 
of the ram. And he killed the ram; and Mosheh 
sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about. And 
he divided the ram after its parts, and Mosheh burned 
the head and the parts and the fat. And the inwards 
and the feet he washed with water; and Mosheh burned 
the ram at the altar, a burnt sacrifice to be received with 
acceptance, an oblation before the Lord, as the Lord 
commanded Mosheh. And he brought the second ram, 
the ram of completion which completed all; and 
Aharon and his sons laid their hand upon the head of 
the ram. And he killed the ram, and Mosheh took of 
its blood, and put it upon the extremity of Aharon’s ear, 


4 Exod. xxv. Numbers vii. 


VIII. | ON LEVITICUS. 169 


the middle cartilage of the right ear, and upon the 
middle joint® of his right foot. And he brought the 
sons of Aharon, and Mosheh put of the blood upon the 
middle cartilage of their right ears, and upon the middle 
joint of their right feet, and Mosheh poured out all 
the remaining blood upon the altar round about. And 
he took the fat, and the tail, and all the fat which was 
upon the inwards, and the caul of the liver, and the two 
kidnéys, and their fat, and the right shoulder; and from 
the basket of unleavened cakes which was before the 
Lord he took one unleavened cake of bread mixed with 
oil, and one wafer, and put it upon the fat and upon 
the right shoulder, and laid the whole in order upon 
Aharon’s hands, and upon the hands of his sons, 
and he lifted them up, an elevation before the Lord. 
And Mosheh took them from off their hands, and burned 
(them) upon, the altar with the burnt sacrifice; a com- 
pleting offering were they to complete all, to be received 
with acceptance before the Lord. And he took the 
breast, and uplifted it, an elevation before the Lord: of 
the oblation-ram that was the separated portion of 
Mosheh, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 

And Mosheh took the consecrating oil, and of the 
blood which was upon the altar, and sprinkled upon 
Aharon, and upon his vestments, and on his sons, and 
on their vestments with him; and sanctified Aharon and 
his vestments, and his sons and their vestments with 
him. 

And Mosheh said to Aharon and to his sons, Boil 
the flesh of the oblations in pots at the door of the 
tabernacle of ordinance, and there shall you eat it with 
the bread which is in the basket of oblations, according 
to the precept which was spoken; Aharon and his sons 
shall eat it. And what remaineth of the flesh, and of 


? Or, “member,” pirka. 
1 


170 TARGUM OF PALESTINE .לגס‎ 


the bread, you shall burn with fire. And from the door 
of the tabernacle you shall not go forth seven days, until 
the day that your consecration be completed, (because 
in seven days is the tabernacle set up and taken in 
pieces,) and your oblation be offered. (So did he, and 
ordained the order of the oblations on that day.) Like- 
wise the Lord hath commanded to be done by you after 
the days of consecration, to make atonement for you. 
And at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance you shall 
reside day and night seven days, and watch the vigils of 
the Word of the Lord, that you may not die, for thus 
it hath been commanded. And Aharon and his sons 
did all the things which the Lord had commanded by 
the hand of Mosheh. 


SECTION [וצצ‎ 
SHEMINI. 


IX. Ov the eighth day of the anointing of Aharon and 
his sons, and the eighth day of that consecration, being 
the first day of the month of Nisan, when Mosheh had 
erected the tabernacle, he took it not down, neither 
ministered any longer at the altar; but Mosheh called 
Aharon and his sons, and the elders of the sanhedrin of 
Israel. And he said to Aharon, Take thou a calf, the 
young of a bullock, for a sin offering, that Satan may 
not accuse thee concerning the calf that thou madest at 
Horeb ; and take a ram for the burnt sacrifice, that 
there may be a memorial for thee of the righteousness 
of Izhak whom his father bound as a ram on the 
mountain of worship, both of them shall be perfect, and 
bring them before the Lord. And to the children of 
Israel spoke he, saying: Take for yourselves a kid of the 


1x. ON LEVITICUS. 41 


goats, because Satana resembles him, lest he recount 
against rou the accusation concerning the kid of the goats, 
which the sons (tribes) of Jakob killed, (Gen. xxxvii. 
31,) and offer him for a sin offering; and a calf, because 
ye worshipped the calf, (Exod. xxxii. 4,) and a lamb of 
the year, that there may be for you a memorial of the 
righteousness of Izhak, whom his father did bind as a 
lamb, both of them perfect, for a burnt offering; with a 
bullock and a lamb, for a hallowed oblation to sacrifice 
before the Lord, that He may be gracious to you; and a 
mincha mingled with oil of the olive. For this day will 
the glory of the Lord’s Shekinah be revealed unto you. 

And Aharon-and his sons, and all the sons of Israel, 
hastened and took what Mosheh commanded, and pre- 
sented them in front of the tabernacle of ordinance; and 
the whole congregation drew near, and lifted up their 
heart fully before the Lord. 

And Mosheh said, This is the thing which you must 
do. Put away the imagination of evil from your hearts, 
and there will speedily (at once) be revealed to you the 
glory of the Shekinah of the Lord. But when Aharon 
saw at the corner of the altar the form of the calf, he 
was afraid to approach to its side. Mosheh, therefore, said 
to him, Take courage, and go near to the altar, fearing 
not, and offer thy sin offering, and make atonement for 
thyself and for the people, and perform the oblation of the 
people, and make atonement for them, as the Lord hath 
commanded. And Aharon approached to the altar with 
resolution,® and slew the calf for his own sin offering. 
And the sons of Aharon brought the blood to him, and 
he dipped his finger in the blood of the young bullock, 
and put it upon the horns of the altar, and the rest of 
the blood he poured out at the foundation of the altar, 
and sanctified it for the making of atonement upon it. 


5 Or, “ promptitude.” 
7 2 


172 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


And the fat, and the kidneys, with the caul of the liver 
of the sin offering, he burned at the altar, as the Lord 
had commanded Mosheh. But the flesh and the skin 
burned he with fire without the camp. 

And he killed the burnt offering, and the sons of 
Aharon brought the blood to him, and he sprinkled it 
upon the altar round about. And they brought the 
burnt offering to him by its divisions, and the head, and 
he burned (them) upon the altar. And he washed the 
inwards and the fat, and burned the burnt offering, at 
the altar. 

And they brought the oblation of the people. And 
he took the goat for the people’s sin offering and kiiled 
it, and made atonement with the blood of the goat, as 
he had made atonement with the blood of the calf of 
the sin offering for himself, which he had offered before. 
And they brought the burnt offering, and he performed 
it, after the rite of the burnt offering which he had 
offered for himself. Aud they brought the mincha, and 
he filled his hands therefrom, and took of it a portion 
for its memorial, and burned upon the altar, beside the 
morning sacrifice. And he killed the bullock and the 
ram of the hallowed oblations (peace offering) of the 
people, and the sons of Aharon brought the blood to 
him, and he sprinkled it upon the altar round about: 
and the fat of the bullock, and of the ram, the tail, and 
that which covereth the inwards, and the two kidneys, 
and the caul of the liver; and he laid the fat upon the 
breast, and burned the fat upon the altar. But the 
breast and the right shoulder Aharon uplifted, an eleva- 
tion before the Lord, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And Aharon stretched out his hands towards the people 
and blessed them, and came down from the altar with 
joy, after he had finished to perform the sin offering and 
the burnt offering and the hallowed oblation. But 


x.] ON LEVITICUS. 173 


when, after the oblations had been performed, the 
Shekinah did not reveal itself, Aharon was ashamed, and 
said to Mosheh, It may be that the Word of the Lord 
hath no pleasure in the work of my hands, Then went 
Mosheh and Aharon into the tabernacle of ordinance, 
and prayed for the people of the house of Israel, and 
came forth and blessed the people, and said, May the 
Word of the Lord receive your oblations with favour, 
and remit and forgive your sins. 

Then, instantly the Glory of the Lord’s Shekinah 
revealed itself to all the people: and the Fire came 
forth from the Presence of the Lord, and consumed 
upon the altar the sacrifice and the fat. And all the 
people saw, and gave praise, and bowed in prayer upon 
their faces. [JERusaLem. And bowed in prayer upon 
their faces. ] 

X. But the sons of Aharon, Nadab and Abihu, took 
each man his censer, and put fire therein, and laid sweet 
incense upon it, and offered before the Lord strange fire 
taken from (under) the hearth-pots, which had not been 
commanded them. [JerusaLeM. Outside fire.] Anda 
flame of fire came out from before the Lord (as) with 
anger, and divided itself into four streams, (or lines,) 
and penetrated their nostrils, and burned their lives 
(souls) without destroying their bodies; and they died 
before the Lord. 

And 31056 said, This is that which the Lord spake 
with me in Sinai, saying: In them who come near before 
Me I will have the tabernacle to be sacred, that, if they 
be not heedful in the service of the oblations, I will 
burn them with flaming fire from before Me, that in the 
sight of all the people I may be glorified. And Aharon 
heard, and was silent; and he received a good reward 
for his silence. 


And Mosheh called unto Mishael and to Elzaphan, 


174 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


the sons of Uzziel the Levite, the relative of Aharon, 
and said to them, Take your brethren from the sanctu- 
ary, and carry them without the camp. And they came 
nigh, and carried them with hooks of iron in their gar- 
ments, and buried them without the camp, as Mosheh 
had directed. 

And Mosheh said to Aharon, and to Elasar and to 
Ithamar, his sons, Unbare not your heads, neither rend 
your garments, lest you die by the burning fire, and 
there be wrath upon all the congregation; but be silent, 
and justify the judgment upon you, and let all your 
brethren of the house of Israel bewail the burping 
which the Lord hath kindled. And from the door of 
the tabernacle of ordinance go not forth lest you die; 
for the oil of the Lord’s consecration is upon you. And 
they did according to the word of Mosheh. 

And the Lord spake with Aharon, saying, Drink neither 
wine nor anything that maketh drunk, neither thou nor 
thy sons with thee at the time when ye are to enter into 
the tabernacle of ordinance, as thy sons did who have 
died by the burning of fire. It is an everlasting statute 
for your generations ; and for the distinguishing between 
‘the sacred and the common, and between the unclean 
and the clean, and for teaching the children of Israel 
all the statutes which the Lord hath spoken to them by 
the hand of Mosheh. 

And Mosheh spake with Aharon, and Elasar and 
Ithamar, his sons, who were left from the burning: Take 
the mincha that remaineth of the Lord’s oblations, and 
eat it unleavened at the side of the altar, because it is 
most sacred: and you may eat it in the holy place ; for 
it is thy portion and the portion of thy sons of the 
oblations of the Lord: for so have I been commanded. 
But the breast of the uplifting and the shoulder of the 
separation you may eat in (any) clean place, thou and 


x.] ON LEVITICUS. 175 


thy sons with thee, because it is thy portion and the 
portion of thy sons which hath been given from the 
hallowed sacrifices of the children of Israel. The 
shoulder of the separation and the elevated breast with 
the fats of the oblations they shall bring to be uplifted 
an elevation before the Lord, and they shall then be thine 
and thy sons’ with thee, by an everlasting statute, as the 
Lord commanded. 

And on this day three goats shall be offered; the 
goat for the beginning of the month, (or, new moon,) the 
goat of the people’s sin offering, and the goat for the 
sin offering which Nachson bar Aminadab hath brought 
for the dedication of the altar. And Aharon and his 
sons went and burned those three. (But) Mosheh came 
and inquired for the goat of the people’s sin offering ; 
he sought it, but, behold, it had been burned, and he 
was angry with Elasar and Ithamar, the sons of Aharon 
who were left, and said, Why have you not eaten the 
sin offering in the holy place? forasmuch as it is most 
sacred, and hath been given to you for absolving the sin 
of the congregation, to make atonement for you before 
the Lord; and, behold, none of its blood hath been 
carried in within the sanctuary. You should have 
indeed eaten it in the holy place, as I have been 
instructed. And Aharon said to Mosheh, Behold, this 
day the sons of Israel have brought the oblation of 
their sin offering and their burnt sacrifice before the 
Lord; but a stroke hath befallen me, in those my two 
sons. Of the second tythe is it not commanded, Thou 
shalt not eat of it while mourning? How much more, 
then, of the sin offering? If I had eaten of the sin 
offering this day with my two sons who are left, would 
it not have been an error, so that they too might have 
been burned by a judgment, for doing that which was 
not pleasing before the Lord? And Mosheh heard, and 


176 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cuaP. 


it was approvable before him, and he sent out a crier 
through the camp, saying, I am he from whom the rite 
hath been hidden, and Aharon my brother hath brought 
its remembrance to me. 

(Jerusatem. They have brought their sin offerings 
and their burnt sacrifice before the Lord; and I have 
been instructed that these of the sin offering are more 
weighty than those of the second tythes, of which it is 
not allowed to the mourner to eat; and to me hath 
been a great sorrow this day through the death of my 
two sons Nadab and Abihu: and consider, if, while 
mourning over them, I were to eat to-day of the sin 
offering, [should do what would not be pleasing or right 
before the Lord. When Mosheh had heard, and the 
word was pleasing in his sight, he sent out a herald 
through all the camp of Israel, and said, I am he from 
whom the rite had been hidden; but Aharon my brother 
hath taught it unto me. And because Mosheh humbled 
himself, he received thereupon a great reward. For 
Mosheh heard, and the word was pleasing before him.] 

XI. And the Lord spake with Mosheh and with 
Aharon, bidding them and the sons of Aharon admonish 
the children of Israel to taste their food in purity, and 
to separate on account of uncleanness eighteen kinds of 
food to be rejected. Speak with the children of Israel, 
saying: These are the animals which are fit to you for 
food, of every beast which is upon the earth. Whatso- 
ever divideth the hoof and is cloven-footed, and that 
which hath horns bringing up the cud among the beasts, 
that you may eat. But you may not eat of the kinds 
that (only) bring up the cud, nor (of them which only) 
divide the hoof, because (they are) born of the unclean. 
The camel, because he bringeth up the cud, but divideth 
not the hoof; he is unclean to you. And the coney, 
because he bringeth up the cud, but divideth not the hoof, 


x1] ON LEVITICUS. 177 


is unclean to you. And the hare, because he bringeth 
up the cud, but divideth not the hoof, is unclean to you. 
And the swine, because he divideth the hoof, and is cloven- 
footed, but cheweth not the cud, is unclean to you. Of 
their flesh you shall not eat, nor touch their carcase ; they 
are abominable to you. And these you may eat, of all that 
are in the waters: every one that hath fins and scales in 
the seas and in the rivers, these you may eat. But any one 
that hath not fins and scales in the seas and in the rivers, 
and of anything that is in the sea that crawleth, shall 
be an abomination to you, and an abomination shall 
their jelly and their sauce be to you; of their flesh you 
shall not eat, and their carcase you shall have in abhor- 
rence, and from the use of them you must keep aloof. 
Every one that hath neither fins nor scales in the waters 
shall be an abomination to you. 

And these kinds of birds must be abominated: those 
not a finger long, or that have no vesicle (zephag), or 
whose crop (turkeban, ingluvies) peeleth not away,” are 
not to be eaten, they are abomination; the eagle, the 
black eagle, and the osprey, and the kite, and the vulture 
after his kind, and every raven after his kind, and the 
ostrich, and the night raven, and the gull, and the hawk 

“after his kind, and the snatcher of fish from the sea, 
and the ibis, and the bustard, and the cuckoo, and the 
woodpecker, and the white stork, and the black, after 
his kind, and the woodeock, and the bat. 

And every flying reptile that goeth upon four, the fly 
species, tlie wasp (or hornet) species, and the bee species 
shall be an abomination to you: nevertheless of the 
honey of the bee you may eat. So also of these you 
may eat, of every flying reptile that goeth upon four; 


7 Every bird which hath a crop, and of which the internal coat of 
the stomach may be readily peeled off, is of the clean species—MIsuNa, 
Cholia, 6. 111., § 6. 


15 


178 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


every one that hath joints above his feet to leap there- 
with upon the ground. Of these kinds of them you 
may eat: the wingless locust after his kind, and the 
bald locust after his kind, the serpent-killer after his 
kind, and the karzeba, which is the palmerworm, after 
his kind. But all flying reptiles which have four feet 
are to be an abomination to you; and by them you 
would be defiled: whosoever toucheth their carcase shall 
be unclean until evening. Whoever carrieth any of 
their carcase must wash his clothes and be unclean until 
evening. All cattle which divide the hoof, but are not 
cloven-footed nor throw up the cud, are to be unclean 
to you, any one who toucheth them shall be unclean. 
Every one that goeth upon his paws of all animals that 
walk upon four shall be unclean to you. Whoever 
toucheth their carcase shall be unclean until evening. 
Whoever beareth their carcase shall wash his clothes 
and be unclean until evening; unclean are they to 
you. 

And these also to you are suchas defile ; the blood, the 
skin, and the flesh of every reptile that creepeth upon 
the ground: the weasel, the mouse, black, red, and 
white, and the toad, after his kind; and the sucking 
serpent, and the chameleon, and the lizard, and the snail, 
and the salamander. These eight kinds are unclean to 
you among all reptiles: whoever toucheth them, their 
skin or their blood, shall be unclean until the evening. 
And whatever upon which any part of their dead body 
may fall, as their members when separated from them, 
shall be unclean; every vessel of wood, or garment, or 
leather, or sack, anything in which work is done, in four 
measures of water it shall be dipped, and be unclean for 
use until evening, when it shall be purified. And any 
earthen vessel into which any of them may fall, any 
vessel in which they may be, shall be unclean and be 


ON LEVITICUS. 179‏ [.זצ 


broken; all food for eating upon which (such) water 
cometh shall be unclean, and any fluid which is used for 
drinking in any such vessel shall be unclean. And any 
thing upon which a part of their carcase may fall shall 
be unclean, whether ovens or pans they shall be broken, 
they are defiled and shall be unclean to you. [JERU- 
saLeM. The ovens and pans shall be broken.] But 
fountains and cisterns, the place of the collection of 
running waters, shall be clean: but he who toucheth the 
carcase of any of those things (that may have fallen) 
into the water shall be unclean, And if any part of 
their carcase fall in the way upon seed that is to be 
sown, that which is sown dry shall be clean; but if the 
carcase of any of them fall upon water that is put upon 
the seed when so wetted, the seed is unclean to you. 
And if the limb of any clean beast that you may eat be 
torn and it die, whosoever toucheth its carcase shall be 
unclean until the evening. He who eateth of its carcase 
shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening ; 
and he who carrieth its carcase shall wash his clothes, 
and be unclean till evening. 

And every reptile that creepeth on the ground is an 
abomination, it shall not be eaten, And whatever goeth 
upon its belly, and whatever animal crawleth upon four, 
from the serpent unto the caterpillar which hath many 
feet, of any reptile that creepeth upon the ground you 
may uot eat, for they are anabomination. [JERUSALEM. 
Whatsoever writhes upon its belly among all animals. | 
You shall not contaminate your souls by any reptile that 
creepeth, nor defile yourselves with them, lest by them 
you make yourselves unclean. For I am the Lord 
your God; therefore sanctify yourselves, and be holy, 
for I am Holy, and defile not your souls by any reptile 
that creepeth upon the ground: for I am the Lord who 
have brought you up free from the land of Mizraim, 


180 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


that I may be a God to you; and you may be holy, for 
Tam Holy. 

This is the decree of the law concerning beasts, and 
birds, and every living animal that creepeth upon the 
ground; for making distinction between the unclean 
and the clean; between the animal whose flesh may be 
eaten, and the animal whose flesh may not be eaten. 


SECTION XXVII. 
TAZRIA. 


XII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, saying: When a woman 
hath conceived and borne a male child, she shall be 
unclean seven days, as the days of the removal of her 
uncleanness shall she be unclean. But on the eighth 
day she shall be loosed, and her child shall be circum- 
cised in the flesh of his foreskin, And thirty and three 
continuous days she shall have for the purification of 
the whole blood; but she must not touch things sacred, 
nor come into the sanctuary until the time when the 
days of her purification be completed. And if she hath 
borne a daughter, she shall be unclean fourteen continu- 
ous days according to (the law of) her separation ; and on 
the fifteenth she shall be released; but sixty and six con- 
tinuous days shall she have for the (full) purification of 
the blood. 

And when the days of her purification are completed 
for the son or the daugliter, she shall bring a lamb of 
its year for a burnt offering, and a young pigeon or a 
turtle dove for a sin offering, unto the priest at the door 
of the tabernacle of ordinance; and the priest shall offer: 


xu. | ON LEVITICUS. 181 


it before the Lord and make atonement for her; then 
shall she be purified from either source of (her) blood. 
This is the law of the purification of her who hath borne 
a son or a daughter. 

But if she find not her hand sufficient to bring a 
lamb, let her bring two turtle doves or two young 
pigeons; one for the burnt offering, and one for the 
sin offering, and the priest shall make atonement for 
her, and she shall be clean. , 

3111. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: If 
a man have in the skin of his flesh a rising tumour or a 
white spot, (Jervusatem. A tumour, or sore, or white 
spot,] and it be in the skin of his flesh (as) the plague 
of leprosy, let him be brought unto Aharon the priest, 
or to one of the priests his sons. And the priest shall 
look at the plague in the skin of the flesh,—and if the 
hair of the stricken place be turned to whiteness, and 
the appearance of the plague be deeper (than the sur- 
face), and be whiter than the skin of his flesh, like 
snow, it is the plague of leprosy ; and the priest having 
inspected him shall make him to be unclean. 

But if the bright spot be white like chalk in the 
skin of his flesh, and the appearance of it be not deep, 
with whiteness like snow rather than skin, the hair, too, 
not being turned to whiteness like chalk, the priest 
shall shut up him who is plagued seven days; and the 
priest shall inspect him on the seventh day, and, behold, 
if the plague stand as it was, and have not gone on 
wider in the skin, the priest shall shut him up a second 
seven days. And the priest shall inspect him the 
second seventh day; and, behold, if the plague hath 
become darker, and hath not gone wider in the skin, 
the priest shall make him to be clean; it is an obsti- 
nate sore, and he shall wash his clothes and be clean. 

But if the inveterate sore widen in the skin after be 


182 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


had been shown to the priest who had pronounced him 
clean, let him a second time be seen by the priest. 
And the priest shall look ; and, behold, if the widening 
of the inveterate sore hath gone on in the skin, the 
priest shall make him unclean ; for it is the leprosy, 

When the plague of leprosy is upon a man, let him 
be brought to the priest. And the priest shall observe; 
and, behold, if there be a white tumour rising on the 
skin like pure wool, and the hair be turned to white- 
ness as the white of an egg, and the sign of quick flesh 
be in the tumour, it is an inveterate leprosy in the skin 
of his flesh; and the priest shall adjudge and pro- 
nounce him unclean, but not shut him up, for he is 
(known to be) unclean. Yet if the leprosy increasing 
increaseth in the skin, and the leprosy covereth all the 
skin of his flesh, from his head even to his feet, in 
whatever part the eyes of the priest may look on, in 
deliberating between cleanness and uncleanness, the 
priest shall consider; and, behold, if the leprosy cover- 
eth all his flesh, the plagued man shall be (pronounced) 
to be clean: all of him is turned to whiteness, he is 
clean. But in the day that live flesh appeareth in him 
he is unclean. And the priest shall observe the live 
flesh, and make him to be unclean; on account of the 
live flesh in him he is unclean ; it is leprosy. Orif the 
live flesh be turned and changed into whiteness, he 
shall be brought to the priest; and the priest shall 
observe, and, behold, the plague is turned white, and 
the priest shall adjudge the plague to be clean; he is 
clean. 

And if a man have in his skin an ulcer, and it hath 
healed ; but in the place of the ulcer there hath come a 
white rising tumour, or a bright fixed spot, (in colour) 
white mixed with red; he shall be seen by the priest. 
And the priest shall look ; and, behold, if the appear- 


x11. ] ON LEVITICUS. 183 


ance of it be deeper than the skin, and it becometh 
white, and the hair is turned white, the priest shall 
make him to be unclean; for itis a plague of leprosy 
which increaseth in the ulcer. And if the priest look, 
and, behold, the hair in it is not whitened, and the 
whiteness (of the spot) is not in appearance deeper than 
the skin, and that it hath become dim, then must the 
priest shut him up seven days. [And the priest shall 
look on the seventh day ;] and if it hath gone on 
widening in the skin, the priest shall make him to be 
unclean; for it is the plague of leprosy. But if the 
spot abideth in its place, and hath not gone on widening 
in the skin, but hath become fainter, it is an inflamed 
blotch ; and the priest shall make him to be clean; it 
is a burning scar. 

Or if there be in a man’s skin a hot burning, and in 
the burning wound a spot of white mixed with red, 
or white only; the priest shall look upon it: and, 
behold, the hair is turned white as chalk, and its 
appearance is deeper than the skin becoming white as 
snow; it is leprosy growing in the burning spot; and 
the priest shall make him unclean, it is the plague of 
leprosy. But if the priest look on it, and, behold, the 
hair on the burning place be not white, and it be not 
deep, nor becoming whiter than the skin, though it 
may be dim; then the priest shall shut him up seven 
days. And the priest shall see him on the seventh 
day ; and if it hath gone on widening in the skin, the 
priest shall make him unclean; it is the plague of 
leprosy. But if the priest look on it, and, behold, the 
hair on the burning place is not white, and it is not 
deep, nor whiter than the skin, though it may be dim ; 
then the priest must shut him up seven days. And 
the priest shall see him on the seventh day; and if it 
hath gone on widening in the skin, the priest shall 


184 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHaP. 


make him unclean, for it is the plague of leprosy. But 
if the inflamed spot abide in its place, and go not on to 
widen in the skin, and it be dim (in appearance), it is a 
burning spot; and the priest shall make him to be 
clean, for it is a burning wound. 

And if a man or a woman have a plague upon the 
head, or in the beard, the priest shall look upon the 
plague; and, behold, if the appearance is deeper and 
whiter than the skin, and yellow hair be in it, in sight 
like a thin thread of gold, the priest shall make him 
unclean; it isa scurvy, a leprosy in the head or the 
beard. But if the priest view the scurfed plague, and, 
behold, if the appearance of it be not deeper nor whiter 
than the skin, and there be no black hair in it, the 
priest shall shut up him who hath the scurfed plague 
seven days. And the priest on the seventh day shall 
look upon the plague; and, behold, if the plague hath 
not gone on in breadth, and no yellow hair like gold be 
in it, and the appearance of the scurf is not deeper than 
the skin, he shall cut away the hair which surrounds 
the scar, but the scurfed part he must not shave; and 
the priest shall shut him who hath the scurf, seven 
days. Then shall the priest look upon the scurf on the 
seventh day ; and, behold, if the scar hath not gone on 
in breadth in the skin, and its appearance is not deeper 
nor becoming whiter than the skin, the priest shall 
make him to be clean; and he shall wash his clothes 
and be clean. 

But should the breadth of the scar go on in the skin 
after his purification, the priest shall inspect it: and, 
behold, if the breadth hath increased, the priest need 
not look narrowly after the yellow hair; for he is unclean. 
But if the scar abideth, (without widening,) and black 
hair hath sprung up in it, the scar hath healed; he is 
clean, and the priest shall make him to be clean. 


XUL | ON LEVITICUS. 185 


And if a man or a woman have in the skin of their 
flesh bright white spots, the priest shall look, and, be- 
hold, if the spots in the skin of their flesh are a 
greyish white, it is a bright freckle growing in the skin; 
he is clean. . 

And if a man’s hair fall off from his head, he is bald, 
but he is clean. And if the hair fall away from the 
brow of his face, he is partly bald, but he is clean. But 
if his baldness or partial baldness hath in it a white 
plague mixed with red, it is a leprosy growing in his 
baldness or partial baldness. And the priest shall look 
upon it, and, behold, if the spot of the plague be white 
mixed with red in his baldness, or partial baldness, like 
the appearance of leprosy in the skin of the flesh, he is 
a leprous man, he is unclean, and the priest shall verily 
make him to be unclean, for the plague is on his head. 

And the leper in whom is the plague shall have his 
clothes rent, and his hair shall be taken off, going to 
the shearer’s, and his lips shall be covered ; and he shall 
be clothed like a mourner, and crying, as a herald, he 
shall say, Keep off, keep off from the unclean! All the 
days that the plague is in him he shall be unclean, for 
unclean he is; he shall dwell alone by himself, to the 
side of his wife he must not come nigh, and his habita- 
tion shall be without the camp. 

And a garment in which is the plague of leprosy, 
whether a garment of wool or a garment of linen, 
whether in the warp or in the woof, in linen or in 
woollen, or in a skin, or in anything made of skin: if 
the plague be green or red in the garment, or in the 
skin, whether in the warp or in the woof, or in anything 
of leather, it is the plague of leprosy, and must be shown 
to the priest. And the priest shall look upon the plague, 
and shall shut it up seven days: and he shall look upon 
the plague on the seventh day, and if the plague hath 


186 TARCUM OF PALESTINE .זו‎ 


become wider in the garment, whether in the warp or 
woof, or in the skin, or anything made of skin, it is a 
manifest plague of leprosy, it is unclean.® But if the 
priest look, and, behold, the width of the plague hath not 
advanced in the garment, in warp or woof, or anything 
of skin, let the priest direct that they wash the material 
which hath the plague in it, and shut it up a second 
seven days. And the priest shall look after they have 
washed the plague, and, behold, the (condition of the) 
plague hath not altered from what it was, and the plague 
hath not advanced in its size, it is unclean, thou shalt 
burn it in the fire, for the leprosy is deep in its bare- 
ness (or in its outward side). And if the priest observe, 
and, behold, the plague hath become dim, then shall he 
tear it out of the garment, or from the leather, or out 
of the warp or the woof. But if it re-appear in the 
garment, or in the warp or woof, or in anything of skin, 
and maketh increase, thou shalt burn such material 
which hath the plague in it. And the garment, or the 
warp or woof, or anything of skin, which thou shalt 
wash, and the plague depart from it, shall be washed a 
second time, and it shall be clean. 

This is the law for the plague of leprosy in a garment 
of woollen or of linen, or the warp or the woof, or any- 
thing of skin, to make it to be clean or to be unclean. 


SECTION XXVIII. 
METSORA, 


XIV. Axp the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
This shall be the law for the leper: on the day of his 


5 The fifty-second verse is wanting. 


ON LEVITICUS. 187‏ [.צנצ 


purification he shall be brought to the priest. And the 
priest shall go forth out of the camp, and look, and 
behold, the leper hath been healed of his leprosy. Then 
the priest shall direct that he who is to be cleansed take 
two birds, alive and clean, and wood of the cedar, and 
scarlet (wool), and hyssop. And the priest shall instruct 
the killer to kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel 
with spring water. Let him take the living bird with 
the cedar wood, and the scarlet, and the hyssop, and dip 
them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that 
had been killed, and in the spring water. And let him 
sprinkle it upon the face of him who is to be cleansed 
of the leprosy seven times, and cleanse him; and send 
forth the living bird over the face of the field. And it 
will be that if that man is again to be stricken with 
leprosy, the living bird will come back to his house on 
that day, and may be held fit to be eaten. But the bird 
that had been killed the priest shall bury in the presence 
of the leper. And he who is cleansed shall wash his 
clothes, and shave off all his hair, and wash himself in 
water, and be clean; and afterward he may enter the 
camp, but shall dwell without his tent, the house of his 
habitation, and come not to the side of his wife for 
seven days. And on the seventh day he shall again 
shave off all the hair of his head, of the beard, and 
of the eyebrows, even all his hair shall he shave, and 
dip his clothes, and wash his flesh in water, and he 8 
clean. 

And on the eighth day let him take two lambs un- 
blemished, and one ewe lamb of the year unblemished ; 
and three-tenths of flour for the mincha mingled with 
olive oil, and one log of olive oil. And the priest who 
purifieth the man who is to be cleansed shall make him 
stand with the lambs before the Lord at the door of the 
tabernacle of ordinance. And the priest shall take one 


188 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


lamb, and offer him as an oblation for trespass, with the 
log of oil, and uplift them an elevation before the Lord. 
And the slayer shall kill the lamb in the place where the 
sin offering is killed, and the burnt offering, in the holy 
place; because, as the sin offering, so the trespass offer- 
ing is the priest’s; it is most sacred. And the priest 
shall take of the blood of the trespass offering, and 
shall put it upon the middle point of the right ear of 
him who is to be cleansed, and upon the middle joint of 
his right hand, and on the middle joint of his right foot. 
And the priest, with his right hand, shall take (some) 
from the log of oil, and pour it upon the priest’s left 
hand; and the priest shall dip his right hand finger in 
the oil which is in his left hand, and sprinkle the oil 
with his finger seven times. And of what remaineth of 
the oil that is in his hand the priest shall put some upon 
the cartilage of the right ear of him who is to be 
cleansed, and upon the middle finger of his right hand, 
and on the middle toe of his right foot upon the spot 
whereon he had first put the blood of the trespass offer- 
ing. And that which yet remaineth of the oil that is 
in the priest’s hand he shall put upon the head of him 
who is to be cleansed, and the priest shall make atone- 
ment for him before the Lord. And the priest shall 
perform the oblation of the sin offering, and make atoue- 
ment for him who is to be cleansed from his defilement ; 
and afterwards shall he kill the burnt offermg. And 
the priest sball offer the burnt offering with the mincha 
at the altar, and the priest shall make atonement for him, 
and he will be clean. 

But if he be a poor man, and his hand have not suffi- 
ciency, let him take one lamb for the trespass offering 
to be an elevation to make atonement for him, and one 
tenth of flour mingled with olive oil for the mincha, and 
a log of olive oil. And two large turtle doves, or two 


XIV. | ON LEVITICUS. 189 


young pigeons, of the sufficiency of his hand, and let 
one be for the sin and one for the burnt offering. And 
he shall bring them on the eighth day for his purifica- 
tion unto the priest, at the door of the tabernacle of 
ordinance. And the priest shall take the lamb for the 
trespass offering, and the log of oil, and uplift them, an 
elevation before the Lord. And the slayer shall kill the 
lamb of the trespass offering, and the priest shall take 
the blood of the trespass offering, and put it upon the 
middle cartilage of the right ear of him who is to be 
cleansed, and on the middle joint of his right hand, and 
on the middle joint of his right foot. And the priest 
shall pour some of the oil with his mght hand into the 
priest’s left hand, and the priest with the finger of his 
right hand shall sprinkle of the oil that is in his left 
hand seven times before the Lord. And the priest shall 
put of the oil that is in his hand on the middle cartilage 
of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on 
the middle joint of his right hand, and on the middle 
joint of his right foot, upon the spot whereon he first 
put the blood of the trespass offermg. And what re- 
maineth of the oil that is upon the priest’s hand he shall 
put upon the head of him who is to be cleansed, to atone 
for him before the Lord. And the priest shall perform 
(the offering of) one of the large turtle doves, or of the 
pigeons of which his hand had sufficiency. That which 
his hand was sufficient to bring, let him bring, one for 
the sin, and one for the burnt offering, with the oblation 
of the mincha, and let the priest make atonement for 
him who is to be cleansed before the Lord. This is the 
decree of instruction for him in whom is the plague of 
leprosy. If there be not sufficiency in his hands to 
bring the greater oblations, let him bring of these 
oblations which are easier (and) which are here explained, 
on the day of his purification. 


190 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHAP. 


And the Lord spake with Mosheh and with Aharon, 
saying, When you have entered upon the land of Kenaan, 
which I will give you for a possession, and a man who 
hath builded a house by rapine finds that I have put the 
plague of leprosy in the house of the land of your 
inheritance ; and he who owneth the house shall come 
to the priest, saying, There is a plague, as it appeareth 
to me, in the house: then the priest shall direct that 
they make the house empty before the priest cometh to 
inspect the house, that all that is in the house may not 
be (condemned as) unclean; and after that the priest 
shall go in to inspect the house. And the priest shall 
look, and, behold, if the plague be like (the colour of) 
two beans crushed with stones, and goeth lower than the 
four walls, green or red, and its appearance be deeper 
than the walls; the priest shall go out from the house 
to the door of the house, and shut up the house seven 
days. And the priest, returning on the seventh day, 
shall look, and, behold, if the breadth of the plague 
hath increased in the wall of the house, then the priest 
shall direct that they break out the stones which have 
the plague in them, and throw them without the city 
into an unclean place. And they shall scrape the inside 
of the house round about, and throw the dust which 
they have scraped off without the city into an unclean 
place. And they shall take other stones, and insert 
them in the place of the (former) stones, and let other 
mortar be taken, and the house be replastered. [Jerv- 
saLeM. And they shall plaster the house.] But if the 
plague return and increase in the house, after the stones 
have been broken out, and after the house hath been 
scraped, and after that it hath been replastered, then the 
priest shall come and look, and, behold, (if) the breadth of 
the plague hath increased in the house, it isa plain 
Icprosy in the house, it is unclean, Then shall they 


XIV. ] ON LEVITICUS. 191 


destroy that house, and its stones, and its timber, and 
all the plaster of the house, and he shall remove it 
without the city to an unclean place. And whoever 
goeth into the house in the days that it is shut up, shall 
be unclean until evening. And whoever sleepeth in the 
house shall wash his clothes, and whoever eateth in the 
house shall wash his clothes. 

But if, having gone in, the priest looketh, and, behold, 
the breadth of the plague hath not increased in the 
house, after the house hath been plastered, then the 
priest shall make the house to be clean, for the plague 
hath healed. And he shall take, for the purification of 
the house, two turtle doves and cedarwood and scarlet 
and hyssop; and the slayer shall kill one turtle dove in 
a vessel of earthenware with spring water; and he shall 
take the cedarwood and the hyssop and the scarlet and 
the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the bird 
that had been killed and in the spring water, and 
sprinkle the house seven times. And he shall purify 
the house with the blood, with the living bird, and with 
the cedarwood, and with the hyssop, and with the 
scarlet. And the living bird he shall send forth out of the 
town upon the face of the field, and shall atone for the 
house, and it shall be clean. But if it is to be that the 
house will be again struck with leprosy, the bird on that 
day will return, and may be fit for food. But the bird 
that was killed shall the priest bury in the presence of 
the owner of the house. This is the decree of instruc- 
tion in the law for every plague of leprosy and scorbutus, 
and for leprosy in apparel, or in a house; and for 
tumours, scars, and inflamed blotches. [JERUSALEM. 
And for tumours, scars, and inflamed blotches.] That 
the priest may teach the people to discern between the 
day of darkness in which they may not be able to see 
the plague, and the day of light; and between a man 


192 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


who is unclean aud a man who 18 clean. This shall be 
the decree of instruction for the leprosy. 

XV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh and with 
Aharon, saying: Speak with the sons of Israel, and say 
to them: A man, whether young or old, who hatha 
defluxion from his flesh, when he hath seen it three 
times, is unclean. And this shall be his uncleanness,— 
the appearance of the colour of white in his defluxion 
inflaming the defluxion of his flesh; or when his flesh 
hath stopped from his defluxion, it is his uncleanness. 
Every bed on which one who hath such deflusion lieth 
shall be unclean; and every thing גוס‎ which such an 
one sitteth shall be unclean. And the man who toucheth 
his bed shall wash his clothes, and wash himself in forty 
seahs of water, and shall be unclean until evening. And 
whoever may sit upon a thing whereon such an one who 
hath an issue hath sat, let him wash his clothes, and 
bathe in forty seahs of water, and be unclean until 
evening. And whoever may touch the flesh of one 
having an issue, let him wash his clothes, and bathe in 
forty seahs of water, and be unclean until evening. And 
if he who hath an issue spit upon any one who is clean, 
let him wash his clothes, and bathe in forty seahs of 
water, and be unclean until evening. And every girdle 
or saddle upon which he who hath an issue rideth shall 
be unclean. And whoever toucheth any thing that hath 
been under him shall be unclean until evening; and he 
who carrieth them shall wash his clothes, and bathe in 
forty seahs of water, and be unclean until evening. 
And whoever toucheth him who hath the issue, and 
washeth not his hands in water, shall be unclean ; if he 
be a man, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe in forty 
seahs of water, and be unclean until the evening. And 
any vessel of earthenware whose inside may have 
been touched by him who hath the issue shall be 


ON LEVITICUS. 193‏ [ ץצ 


broken ; and any vessel of wood shall be washed in 
water. 

But if he who hath had the issue shall have ceased 
from it, he shall number to himself seven days for his 
purification, and wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh 
in spring water, to be clean. And on the eighth day 
let him take for himself two large turtle doves, or two 
young pigeons, and bring them before the Lord at the 
gate of the tabernacle of ordinance, and deliver them to 
the priest. And the priest shall make one a sin offering 
and one a burnt offering, and the priest shall atone for 
him before the Lord, and he shall be cleansed from his 
issue. But if a man sin through ignorance and seed 
goeth from him, let him wash all his flesh in forty seahs 
of water, and be unclean until evening. And any 
garment or skin on which seed may be shall be washed 
in water, and be unclean until evening; and secondly, a 
woman with whom a man lieth shall wash in forty seahs 
of water, and be unclean until evening. And if a 
woman hath an issue of blood, red or dark, yellow as 
saffron, or water of clay, or as red wine mixed with two 
parts of water, she hath an uncleanness of blood in her 
flesh; she shall dwell apart seven days; any one who 
toucheth her shall be unclean until evening. Whatever 
such an one shall lie upon during the time of her 
separation shall be unclean; and whatever such an one 
sitteth upon during the time of her separation shall be 
unclean. And whoever toucheth her bed shall wash his 
clothes, and bathe himself with forty seahs of water, 
and be unclean until evening. And whoever toucheth 
any thing upon which such an one hath sat shall wash 
his clothes, and bathe in forty seahs of water, and be 
unclean until evening. And if the effusion of her body 
be upon her bed, or on a thing. upon any part of which 
she sitteth, what time any one toucheth it, he shall be 

K 


194 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


unclean until evening. If aman lie with her in the 
time of her separation, he shall be unclean seven days ; 
and any bed upon which he lieth shall be unclean. But 
a woman who hath a defluxion of blood three days 
beyond the time of her separation, or when it floweth 
after the days of her separation, all the days of the 
uncleanness of her defluxion shall she be unclean; he 
who lieth with her shall be unclean. And any bed 
upon which such an one lieth all the days of her 
defluxion shall be as the bed which was accounted hers 
during the time of her separation, and any thing upon 
which such an one sitteth shail be unclean as the unclean- 
ness of her separation. And whoever toucheth those 
(things) shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and 
bathe in forty seahs of water, and be unclean until the 
evenly. 

But when she is cleansed from her issue, let her 
number to herself seven days, and afterwards wash in 
forty seahs of water, and be clean. And on the seventh 
day, let her take for herself two turtle doves, or two 
young pigeons, and bring them to the priest, at the 
door of the tabernacle of ordinance ; and the priest shall 
make one a sin offering, and the other a burnt offering ; 
and the priest shall make atonement before the Lord 
on account of the defluxion of her uncleanness. So 
shall you separate the children of Israel from their un- 
cleanness, and make them to be separate from their 
wives at the time of their seclusion, and to give not 
occasion that they die for their uncleanness in detiling 
My tabernacle, where the glory of My Shekinah dwelleth 
among them. 

This is the decree of instruction for him who hath a 
defluxion, and for him whose seed goeth forth and de- 
fileth him ; and for her who is unclean in the time of 
her separation, and for any one who hath an issue, 


xv1.] ON LEVITICUS. 195 


whether male or female, and for a man who lieth with 
the unclean. All these shall be advised of their un- 
cleanness, and, when purified, shall bring the oblations 
that make atonement for them. 


SECTION XXIX. 
ACHAREY MOTH. 


XVI. Anp the Lord spake with Mosheh, after that 
the two sons of Aharon the high priest had died (or, the 
priests the two elder sons of Aharon had died) at the 
time of their offering extraneous fire (aisha daria) before 
the Lord; died they by the flaming fire. [JERUsaLEm. 
The two sons of Aharon, in their offering extraneous 
fire.] And the Lord said unto Mosheh: Speak with 
Aharon thy brother, that he enter not at any time into 
the holy place within the veil before the mercy-seat ; 
for the cloud of the glory of My Shekinah is revealed 
over the place of the mercy-seat. 

This shall be the rite (mida) for the entering of 
Aharon into the holy place. With a young bullock, 
having no mixture, for the sin offering, and a ram for 
the burnt offering. With the vestments of fine linen, 
the holy robe, shall he be dressed, and linen drawers shall 
be upon his flesh, and with the girdle of fine linen shall he 
be bound, and the mitre of fine linen shall be ordained 
for his head. These are the holy garments; but with 
the golden robes he shall not enter, that there be not 
brought to memory the sin of the golden calf; and at 
the time when he is to enter he shall wash his flesh in 
forty seahs of water, and attire himself with them. 

And from the congregation of the sons of Israel let 
him take two kids of the goats, without mixture, for a 


sin offering, and one ram for a burnt offering. And 
x2 


196 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


Aharon shall offer the bullock of the sin offering which 
(hath been purchased) with his own money, and make 
an atonement with words of confession ® for himself and 
for the men of his house. And he shall take the two 
goats, and cause them to stand before the Lord, at the 
door of the tabernacle of ordinance. And Aharon shall 
put upon the goats equal lots; one lot for the Name of 
the Lord, and one lot for Azazel: and he shall throw 
them into the vase, and draw them out, and put them 
upon the goats. And Aharon shall bring the goat upon 
which came up the lot for the Name of the Lord, and 
make him a sin offering. And the goat on which came up 
the lot for Azazel he shall make to stand alive before the 
Lord, to expiate for the sins of the people of the house 
of Israel, by sending him to die in a place rough and 
hard in the rocky desert which is Beth-hadurey. 

And Aharon shall bring the bullock which is for 
himself, and make atonement with confession of words 
for himself, and for the men of his house, and kill the 
bullock for his sin offering. 

And he shall take a censer full of coals burning with 
fire from off the altar from before the Lord, and with 
his hand full of sweet incense, beaten small, he shall 
enter within the veil. And he shall put the sweet 
incense upon the fire before the Lord, and the cloud of 
the fuming incense shall envelope the mercy-seat that is 
over the testimony, that he may not die by the flaming 
fire before the Lord. And he shall take of the blood of 
the bullock, and sprinkle with his right finger upon the 
face of the mercy-seat eastward, and before the mercy- 
seat he shall sprinkle the blood seven times with his 
right finger. 

Then shall he kill the goat of the sin offering which 
is (purchased with) the money of the people, and car:y 


* Or, “with confession of words: de-ishteoth milaya, 


xv1.] ON LEVITICUS. 197 


in of the blood of the goat within the veil, and do with 
the blood of the goat as he did with the blood of the 
bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy-seat, and before 
the mercy-seat. And he shall make atonement for the 
holy place, with confession of words for the uncleanness 
of the children of Israel, and for their rebellions, and 
for their sins; and so shall he do for the tabernacle of 
ordinance which remaineth with them in the midst of 
their uncleanness. But let no one be in the tabernacle 
of ordinance at the time of his going in to make atone- 
ment in the holy place for the sins ‘of Israel, until the 
time of his coming out; and so shall he make atone- 
ment for himself,.and for the men of his house, and for 
all the congregation of Israel. 

And he shall withdraw, and come forth from the 
holy place, unto the altar which is before the Lord, 
and make atonement upon it with confession of words, 
and take of the blood of the bullock and of the 
blood of the goat, mingled together, and put it upon 
the horns of the altar round about. And he shall 
sprinkle upon it from the blood with his right finger 
seven times, and cleanse it, and sanctify it from the 
defilements of the children of Israel. 

And when he hath completed to make atonement for 
the holy place, and for the tabernacle of ordinance, and 
for the altar, with confession of words, he shall bring 
near the living goat. And Aharon shall lay his hands 
(upon him) in this order, his right hand upon his left, 
upon the head of the living goat, and confess over him 
all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their 
rebellions, and all their sins, and shall put them, with 
an oath uttered and expressed with the Great and 
glorious Name, upon the head of the goat, and send 
(him) away by the hand of a man prepared from the 
year foregoing, to take him into a rccky desert which is 


198 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


Beth-hadurey; and the goat shall bear upon him all 
their sins into a desert place; and the man shall send 
forth the goat to a rocky desert ; and the goat will go 
up on the mountains of Beth-hadurey, and a tempes- 
tuous wind from the presence of the Lord will carry him 
away, and he will die. 

And Aharon shall enter the tabernacle of ordinance, 
and take off the robes of fine linen with which he was 
attired at the time of his going into the holy place, and 
shall lay them aside there. Then shall he wash his flesh 
in the sanctuary, and afterward attire himself, and with- 
draw, and come forth, and perform his burnt offering 
and the burnt offering of the people, and make atone- 
ment for himself and for his people. And the fat of the 
sin offering he shall burn at the altar. 

And he who led away the goat to Azazel shall 
wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in forty seahs of 
water, and afterward he may enter the camp. But the 
bullock for the sin offering, and the goat for the sin 
offering, whose blood was brought into the sanctuary to 
wake atonement, shall be carried away upon carriages!° 
by the hands of young men who are priests; and they 
shall bear them without the camp, and burn them with 
fire, their skin, their flesh, and their dung. And he who 
burneth them shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh 
in forty seahs of water, aud afterwards he may enter the 
camp. 

And this shall be to you for an everlasting statute: in 
the seventh month, it is the month Tishri, on the 
tenth day of the month, you shall humble your souls, 
(abstaining) from food, and from drinks, and from the 
use of the bath, and from rubbing,! and from sandals, 
and from the practice of the bed: nor shall you do any 
work, neither the native-born nor the stranger who dwel- 

10 Astin, “bars.” 1 Castel, 2152. 


LEVITICUS. 199‏ אס [.צנטצ 


leth among you. For on this day he shall make Aronz- 
meENT for you to cleanse you from all your sins; and you 
shall confess your transgressions before the Lord, and 
shall be clean. It is a Sabbath of rest to you: no work 
of business shall you do, but shall humiliate your souls. 
(Jervsatem. But in it you shall fast for your souls.] 
It is an everlasting statute. 

And the priest who is anointed, and who hath offered 
his oblation to minister instead of his father, shall be 
clothed in the robes of fine linen, even the consecrated 
robes. And he shall make atonement for the Holy of 
Holies, and for the tabernacle of ordinance, and for the 
altar; and for the priests, and for all the people of the 
congregation, shall he atone, with confession of words. 
And this shall be to you for an everlasting statute, to 
expiate the children of Israel from all their sius, once in 
the year. And Aharon did as the Lord commanded 
Mosheh. 

XVII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with Aharon and with his sons, and with the sons of 
Israel, and tell them: This is the word which the Lord 
hath commanded, saying : A man of the house of Israel, 
young or old, who shall kill as a sacrifice a bullock, or 
lamb, or goat in the camp, or who killeth it without the 
camp, and bringeth it not to the door of the tabernacle of 
ordinance to offer it an oblation before the Lord, before 
the tabernacle of the Lord, the blood of slaughter shall 
be reckoned to that man, and it shall be to him as if 
he had shed innocent blood, and that man shall be de- 
stroyed from his people. In order that the sons of 
Israel may bring their sacrifices which they have [here- 
tofore] killed on the face of the field, they may [hence- 
forth] bring them before the Lord, at the door of the 
tabernacle of ordinance, unto the priest, and sacrifice 
their consecrated victims before the Lord. And the 


200 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (CHAP. 


priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar of the 
Lord, at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, and 
burn the fat, to be received with acceptance before the 
Lord. Neither shall they offer any more their sacrifices 
unto idols which are like unto demons, after which they 
have wandered. This shall be an everlasting statute to 
them, unto their generations. 

And thou shalt tell them: A man, whether young or 
old, of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who 
sojourn among you, who shall sacrifice a burnt offering, 
or consecrated oblation, and bring it not to the door of 
the tabernacle of ordinance, to be made an oblation 
before the Lord, that man shall be destroyed from his 
people. 

A man also, whether young or old, of the house of 
the family of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn, in 
dwelling among them, who shall eat any blood, I will 
cause employment to turn away (or cease) from that 
man who eateth any blood, and will destroy him from 
among his people. Because the subsistence of the life 
of all flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you 
for a decree, that you shall bring the blood of the 
victim unto the altar to make atonement for the blood 
of your lives, because the blood of the victim is to atone 
for the guilt of the soul. Therefore have I said to the 
sons of Israel, Beware lest any man among you eat the 
blood. Neither shall the strangers who sojourn by 
dwelling among you eat the blood. And any man, 
whether young or old, of the house of the stock of 
Israel, or of the sojourners who sojourn by dwelling 
among you, who hunteth venison of beast or fowl proper 
to be eaten, shall pour out its blood when it is killed; 
and if what he hath killed be not destroyed (or 
strangled ?), let [the blood] be covered with dust. 
Because the subsistence of the life of all flesh is its 


XVIII] ON LEVITICUS. 201 


blood; it is its life; and I have told the sons of Israel, 
You shall not eat the blood of any flesh; for the sub- 
sistence of the life of all flesh is its blood: whosoever 
among you eateth it shall be destroyed. And any man 
who shall eat flesh which hath been thrown away on 
account of having been strangled (or corrupted), or 
the flesh of that which hath been torn, (any man,) 
whether native or sojourner, shall wash his clothes, and 
bathe in forty seahs of water, and be unclean until 
evening, when he shall be clean; but if he be perverse 
and will not wash, nor bathe his flesh, he shall bear his 
transgression. [JeRusaLeM. And if he will not cleanse 
nor purify his flesh, he shall bear his transgression. ] 

XVIII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them, I am the 
Lord your God. After the evil work of the people of the 
land of Mizraim, among whom you have dwelt, you shall 
not do ; so likewise, after the evil work of the people of the 
land of Kenaan, whither I am bringing you, ye shall 
not do, neither shall you walk according to their laws ; 
but you shall perform the orders of My judgments, and 
observe My statutes to walk in them: 1 am the Lord 
your God. And you shall keep My statutes, and the 
order of My judgments, which if a man do he shall live 
in them, in the life of eternity, and his portion shall be 
with the just: I am the Lord. 

No man, either young or old, shall come nigh to any 
of the kindred of his flesh to dishonour (their) naked- 
ness by carnality, or by the knowledge of their nakedness, 
Iam the Lord. The nakedness of thy father, or the 
nakedness of thy mother, thou shall not dishonour. A 
woman shall not lie with her father, nor a man with his 
mother; she is thy mother ; thou shalt not discover her 
nakedness. The nakedness of thy father’s wife thou 
shalt not dishonour, for it is the nakedness of thy 

K 5 


202 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


father. The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter of thy 
father, or the daughter of thy mother, (or of her) whom 
thy father begat by another wife, or of thy mother, 
whom thy mother bare by thy father or by another 
husband, thou shalt not dishonour. The nakedness of 
thy son’s daughter, or the daughter of thy daughter, 
thou shalt not dishonour, because they are as thy own 
nakedness. The nakedness of thy father’s wife’s daugh- 
ter, who hath been begotten of thy father, she is thy 
sister, thou shalt not dishonour. The nakedness of thy 
father’s sister thou shalt not dishonour; she is of kin 
to thy father’s flesh. The nakedness of thy mother’s 
sister thou shall not dishonour ; for she is of kin to thy 
mother’s flesh. The nakedness of thy father’s brother 
thou shalt not dishonour, nor come nigh to his wife 
carnally ; she is the wife of thy father’s brother. The 
nakedness of thy daughter-in-law thou shalt not dis- 
honour ; she is the wife of thy son, thou shalt not dis- 
honour her nakedness. The nakedness of thy brother’s 
wife 1550 shalt not dishonour in the life-time of thy 
brother, or after his death, if he have children ; for it is 
the nakedness of thy brother. The nakedness of a 
woman and of her daughter thou shalt not dishonour, 
neither shalt thou take her son’s daughter, or the 
daughter of her daughter, to dishonour their nakedness ; 
for they are of kin to her flesh; it is corruption. 
Neither shalt thou take a wife in the lifetime of her 
sister, to aggrieve her by dishonouring her nakedness, 
over her, all the days of her life. And unto the side of a 
woman in the time of the separation of her uncleanness 
thou shalt not draw nigh to dishonour her nakedness. 
Nor unto the side of thy neighbour’s wife shalt thou come 
to defile her. And of thy offspring thou shalt not give 
up any to lie carnally with the daughters of the Gentiles, 
to perform strange worship ; nor shalt thou profane the 


XIX. | ON LEVITICUS. 203 


Name of thy God: I am the Lord. [Jerusauem. 
Neither shall ye profane the Name of your God: thus 
speaketh the Lord.] Nor with a male person shalt thou 
lie as with a woman ; it is an abhorrent thing. Neither 
shalt thou lie with any beast to corrupt thyself there- 
with; nor shall any woman approach before a beast for 
evil pleasure ; it is confusion. Defile not yourselves by 
any one of all these; for by all these have the peoples 
defiled themselves whom I am about to drive away from 
before you. And the land hath been defiled, and I have 
visited the guilt upon it, and the land delivereth itself 
of its inhabitants. But you, O congregation of Israel, 
observe My statutes, and the order of My judgments, 
and commit not one of these abominations, neither (you 
who are) native born, or the strangers who sojourn 
among you. For these abominable things have been 
done by the men of the land who have been before you, 
so that the land hath been polluted: lest, when you 
pollute the land, it cast you forth, as it will have de- 
livered itself of the people that were before you. [JERU- 
saLEM. And the land cast you not forth.] For who- 
ever committeth any one of these abominations, the 
souls who do so shall be destroyed from among their 
people. Observe you (then) the keeping of My Word, 
in being careful to avoid the practice of these abomi- 
nable rites, which have been practised in the land before 
you, and the defilement of yourselves by them: I am 
the Lord. 


SECTION XXX. 
KEDOSHIM. 


XIX. Anp the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying : 
Speak with the whole congregation of the sons of Israel, 


204 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (CHAP. 


and say to them: Ye shall be holy, fur I the Lord your 
God am Holy. Let every man revere his mother and 
his father, and keep the days of My Sabbaths: I am the 
Lord your God. Go not astray after the worship of 
idols, nor make gods for yourselves that are molten: 1 
am the Lord your God. And when you sacrifice the 
consecrated victims before the Lord, you shall make the 
sacrifice acceptable. On the day that itis sacrificed you 
may eat of it, and on the day following; but what 
remaineth on the third day shall be burned with fire. 
But if it be indeed eaten on the third day, it is profaned, 
and shall not be accepted. And he who eateth it shall 
receive (the penalty of) his sin; for he hath profaned the 
holv of the Lord, and that man shall be destroyed from 
among his people. 

And in the time that you reap the harvest of your 
land you shall not finish one corner? that is in the 
circuit of thy field, and the (full) ingathering of thy 
harvest thou shalt not collect. Neither mayest thou 
shake out thy vines; (the whole of) their bunches, and 
the remnant of thy vines thou shalt. not gather: thou 
shalt leave them for the poor and for the strangers at 
the time of their collection: I am the Lord your God. 
] 5305413 And when you reap the harvest of your 
land, thou shalt not altogether finish gathering what is. 
in your fields, and the (full) collection of your harvest 
you shall not gather in; neither shake your vines of all 
their clusters, nor collect the fallen grapes of your vines. ] 

Sons of Israel, My people, you shall not steal, nor 
prevaricate, nor do fraudulently one man with his 
neighbour. Sons of Israel, My people, let no one of 
you swear by My Name in vain, to profane the Name 
of thy God: I am the Lord. Thou shalt not be 
oppressive (hard) upon thy neighbour, nor take away 


5 Heb., pea, “corner.” Targ., umana, “ nook, or edge.” 


ON LEVITICUS. 205‏ [.אנצ 


- 


by force, nor let the hire of the hireling be remaining all 
night at thy side until the morning. Thou shalt not curse 
one who heareth not, nor set a stumbling-block before 
the blind, but shalt fear thy God: I am the Lord. 
Thou shalt not act falsely in the order of judgment, 
neither accept the face of the poor, nor honour the face 
of the great; but in truthfulness shalt thou judge thy 
neighbour. Thou shalt not go after the slanderous 
tongue,® which is cruel as a sword that killeth with its 
two edges in uttering false accusations to afflict thy 
people. Thou shalt not hinder the acquittal of thy neigh- 
bour in witnessing against him in the judgment: I am 
the Lord. [Jerntsateu. My people of the house of 
Israel, follow not the slanderous tongue® against your 
neighbour, nor be silent about thy neighbour’s blood, 
what time in the judgment thou knowest the truth: so 
speaketh the Lord.] 

Speak not bland words with your lips, having hatred 
to your brother in your hearts ; but reproving you shall 
reprove your neighbour; and though it make you 
ashamed, you shall not contract sin on account of him. 
Be not revengeful, nor cherish animosity against the 
children of thy people; but thou shalt love thy neigh- 
bour himself, as that though there be (cause of) hatred 
with thee thou mayest not do (evil) to him: 1 am the 
Lord. 

You shall keep My statutes. Thy cattle shall not be 
made to gender with various kinds, neither sow thy 
field with mixed seeds, nor put upon thee a garment of 
divers materials, (as) wool and linen. And if aman lie 
carnally with a woman, and she be an (Israelitish) hand- 
maid (about to be) made free, and betrothed to a free 
man, but her redemption not altogether completed by 
(the payment of) the money, or the written instru- 


3 “The triple tongue.” See Introduction, vol. i., p. 12. 


206 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap, 


ment of liberation not having been given to her, let 
inquisition be made for judgment: she is lable to be 
chastised, but he is not. But it shall not be considered 
a matter of putting to death, because she was not 
altogether free. (Deut. xxii. 22-24.) And the man 
who lay with her must bring his trespass offering to the 
door of the tabernacle of ordinance, a ram for a trespass 
offering. (Jerusatem. They have rebelled, they are 
guilty.] And the priest shall make atonement with 
the ram of his trespass offering before the Lord, for his 
sin that he hath sinned; and the sin that he hath sinned 
shall be forgiven. 

And when you have come into the land, and have 
planted any tree that may be eaten of, you shall verily 
circumcise the fruit of it; three years shall it be to you 
for rejection, to be destroyed; it shall not be eaten. 
And in the fourth year all the fruit of it shall be conse- 
crated, (a token of) praise before the Lord delivered for 
the priest (or, to be redeemed from the priest). But in 
the fifth year thou mayst eat the fruit of it; for produce 
will be increased to you from the heavens: I am the 
Lord your God. 

You shall not eat the flesh of any sacrifice while the 
blood remaineth in the veins. You shall not be observers 
of auguries, after the sanhedrin of the speculators. You 
shall not round off the (hair on) the sides of your 
heads, nor shave the corners of your beards. And a 
corrupting incision for the soul of the dead thou shalt 
not make in thy flesh, neither set upon yourselves an 
inscription by the incutting of any figurated sign: I am 
the Lord. You shall not profane your daughters to 
give them up to fornication : neither delay to give your 
daughters unto husbands in their proper ages, lest they 
go astray by fornication after the people of the land, and 
the land be filled with whoredom. 


ON LEVITICUS. 207‏ [.צצ 


The days of My Sabbaths you shall keep, and go unto 
My sanctuary with reverence: Iam the Lord. Go not 
astray after those who inquire of impostors, or bring up the 
dead, or interrogate the bone of Jeddua:4 neither be 
ye inquirers with them, to pollute yourselves thereby : 
Tam the Lord your God. You shali rise up before the 
aged who instruct in the law; and honour the presence 
of the wise, and fear thy God: I am the Lord. 

And if a stranger becometh a sojourner, and settleth 
among you in your land, you shall not molest him with 
hard words: but the stranger who sojourneth among 
you shall be (treated) as the native born, and thou shalt 
love him as thyself: thou shalt not deal with him as if 
thou didst hate him; for ye were sojourners in the land 
of Mizraim: I am the Lord your God. 

You shall not deal falsely in the ordering of 
judgment; in the admeasurement of summer and 
winter; in weight and measure, in heaping up, or in 
sweeping off : 5 but balances of truth, weights of truth, 
measures of truth, and tankards of truth, shall yours 
be. I am the Lord your God who brought you 
redeemed from the land of Mizraim: and you shall 
observe all My statutes, and all the ordinations of My 
judgments, and do them: I am the Lord. 

XX. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
And with the sons of Israel speak thou, to say: A man 
of the family of the sons of Israel, whether young or 
old, who shall make (an offering) of his offspring unto 
Molek to be burned in the fire, shall be verily put to 
death; the people of the house of Israel shall punish 
his guilt by the infliction of stones; and I will cause a 


+ Sanhedrin, vii., 7. 

5 “Jn the heaper up, (shovel,) and the smoother off; " michka, an 
instrument of wood for smoothing off the surface of a measure of any 
dry material, so as to make it exactly full, and no more. 


208 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


reverse, to make prosperity to cease with that man, and 
will cut him off from among his people; because he 
gave his offspring in strange worship to pollute My 
sanctuary, and to profane My holy Name. And if the 
people of the house of Israel hiding hide: their eyes 
from that man, when he giveth his offspring unto 
strange worship, that they might ot kill him, then will 
1 appoint a reverse, to make a controversy against that 
man, and against his family who protect (cover) him, to 
chastise (them) with afflictions; and him will I destroy, 
and all who follow him to wander after strange 
worship, from among their people. 

And the man who turns aside to inquire of the 
impostors, or to seek to bring up the dead, or to 
inquire by the bone of Jeddua, to go astray after them, 
I will appoint a reverse to punish that man, and will 
destroy him by a plague from among his people. But 
sanctify yourselves, and be holy in your bodies, that 
your prayers may be received with acceptance: I am 
the Lord who sanctify you. And observe My statutes 
and perform them: I am the Lord who sanctify you. 

For the young man or the old man who curseth his 
father or his mother by the revealed Name, shall be 
verily put to death by the casting of stones; because he 
hath cursed his father or his mother, he is guilty of 
death. And the man who by adultery defileth the wife 
of (another) man, or who committeth adultery with the 
wife of his married neighbour, shall be verily put to 
death, by strangulation, with the hard towel in the 
tender part (?): and, on account of a betrothed person, 
by the casting of stones: both the adulterer and the 
adulteress (shall die). And a man who lieth with his 
father’s wife, whether his own mother or another wife, 
and who hath dishonoured the nakedness of his father, 
shall be verily put to death: both of them are guilty of 


XX. | ON LEVITICUS. 209 


death by the casting of stones. And if a man lieth with 
his daughter-in-law, both of them shall be put to death ; 
they have wrought confusion, they are guilty of death 
by the casting of stones. And if a man lie with a man 
as with a woman, they have wrought abomination; 
both of them shall die by the stoning of stones. And 
if a man take a wife and her mother, it is fornication; 
let them be burned with fire with melted lead in their 
mouth, that fornication may not be among you. And 
a man who lieth with a beast shall be surely put to 
death with the stoning of stones, and the beast shall 
be slain with spikes. And if a woman approacheth the 
side of any beast that it may have to do with her, they 
shall be slain; the woman by the casting of stones, and 
the beast by the slaughter of spikes, they shall die; for 
they are deserving of death. And if a man lie with his 
sister, his father’s daughter, or the daughter of his 
mother, and he dishonour her nakedness, it is 
depravity: for I showed mercy with the first ones, on 
behalf of the peopling of the world by them, while as 
yet I had not promulged the law in the world: but 
after the law hath been declared in the world, every 
one who committeth these things shall be destroyed by 
mortality, and the children of their people shall witness 
their punishment; for he who hath dishonoured the 
nakedness of his sister shall be guilty of death. Anda 
man who lieth with a woman who is unclean, and dis- 
honoureth her nakedness, they shail both of them be 
destroyed by a plague from among their people. Nor 
shalt thou dishonour the nakedness of thy mother’s 
sister nor thy father’s sister; for he hath dishonoured 
the flesh of his near kin: they shall receive the penalty 
of their guilt in dying. And if a man lie with the wife 
of his father’s brother, he hath dishonoured the naked- 
ness of his father’s brother: they shall receive their 


210 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (CHAP. 


punishment; they shall be consumed by mortality ; 
without children shall they die. And if a man take 
the wife of his brother during his life, it is an abomina- 
tion: he hath dishonoured the nakedness of his brother ; 
without children shall they be. 

But you, the congregation of Israel, shall observe all 
My statutes, and ail the ordinations of My judgments, 
and do them; that the land into which I am to bring 
you to dwell in it may not cast you out: and walk not 
after the laws of the peoples whom I drive away from 
before you; for they have committed all these abhorrent 
things, and My Word hath abhorred them. But I 
have told you to beware of these horrors, that you may 
inherit their land; and I will give it you to possess it, 
a land producing milk and honey. I am the Lord 
your God who have separated you from the nations. 
And you shall make distinction between the animal 
which is fit to be eaten, and that which it is improper 
to eat; and between the fowl which it is improper to 
eat, and that which is fit to be eaten. Defile not your 
souls by (eating of) the animal that is torn by a wild 
beast, or the bird torn by the falcon, or anything that 
creepeth upon the ground, which I have separated from 
you for their uncleanness. And you shall be holy 
before me; for holy am I, the Lord, who have chosen 
you, and separated you from the nations to be wor- 
shippers before Me. And the man or the woman who 
hath in them (the spirit of) divination or necromancy 
shall die by the casting of stones ; for they are guilty of 
death. 


XXI.] ON LEVITICUS. 211 


SECTION XXXI. 
EMOR, 


XXI. פא‎ the Lord spake to Mosheh, saying: 
Speak unto the priests, the men of the children of 
Aharon, that they keep themselves apart from defile- 
ment, and thus shalt thou say to them: For a man 
who is dead, (the priest) shall not defile himself among 
his people; but for a woman who is of kin to his flesh, 
for his mother, and for his father, and for his son, and 
for his daughter, and for his brother, and for his sister, 
a virgin who is nigh to him, and who hath neither been 
betrothed, nor married to a husband, for her he may 
defile himself. The husband shall not defile himself on 
account of his wife, except so far as it is right for him; 
but for a relative of those who do the work of his 
people he may defile himself. They shall not mark 
themselves between their eyes, nor set a mark upon 
their heads, nor cut away the corners of their beards, 
nor make any incision in their flesh: but they shall be 
holy before their God, and shall not profane the name 
of their God; [Jerusatem. They shall not profane ;[ 
for the oblations of their God they do offer, and they 
must be holy in their bodies. They shall not take to 
wife a woman who hath gone astray by fornication, 
[JerusaLem. A woman a fornicatress, or profane,] or 
who was born illegitimate, nor a woman who hath been 
put away, whether from her husband or the husband’s 
brother, may they take; for he is to be holy before his 
God. ‘Thou shalt sanctify him unto the priesthood ; 
for the oblation itself of thy God he is to offer: he 
shall be holy to thee, and thou shalt not make him 
profane: I, the Lord who sanctify you, am holy. And 
if the betrothed daughter of a man of the priesthood 


212 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


profane herself, by going astray in fornication ; if, while 
she is yet in her father’s house, she is guilty of fornica- 
tion, she shall be burned with fire. 

And the high priest who hath been anointed over his 
brethren, and upon whose head the anointing oil was 
poured, and who offered his oblation to be arrayed in 
the (holy) robes, shall not make his head bare, nor 
either rend or tear his garment in the hour of grief. 
Nor unto any person who is dead shall he go in, nor 
for his father or his mother make himself unclean. And 
he shall not go forth from the sanctuary, or profane the 
sanctuary of his God; for the anointing oil of his God 
is upon him: I am the Lord. And he shall take a 
wife who is in her virginity; but a widow, or a divorced 
person, or one who was born of depraved parents, or 
who hath gone astray by fornication, such as these he 
shall not take; but a virgin proper shall he take to wife 
from the daughters of his people. Neither shall he 
profane his offspring among his people; for I the Lord 
do sanctify him. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with Aharon, saying: No man of thy sons in the families 
of their generations who hath a blemish in him shall be 
qualified to offer the oblation of his God: for no man 
who hath a blemish in him shall offer. A man who is 
blind or lame, or stricken in his nostrils, or mutilated in 
his thigh, or a man who hath a broken foot, or a broken 
hand, or whose eyelids droop so as to cover his eyes, or 
who hath no hair on his eyelids; or who hath a suffu- 
sion of whiteness with darkness in his eyes; or who 
hath the dry scurvy, or who is full of the blotches of 
Egypt, or whose testicles are swollen or shrunk, (JERU- 
SALEM. Or one whiose eyelids cover his eyes, or hath no 
hair on his eyelids, or who is overgrown, or a dwarf, or 
blear-eyed, or filled with scurvy or with blotches, or who 


ON LEVITICUS. 213‏ [,צנצצ 


is wanting in the testicles,] no man, a priest of the race 
of Aharon the priest who hath in him any such blemish, 
shall be qualified to offer the oblations of the Lord. 
He hath a blemish, and it is not meet for him to offer 
the oblation of his God. Nevertheless he may support 
himself with the residue of the oblations of his God 
which remaineth of the most holy and of the holy 
ieee ; only he must not enter within the veil, nor 
approach the altar ; for a blemish is in him, and he shall 
not profane My sarictuntys for I the Lord do sanctify 
them. And Mosheh spake with Aharon and with his 
sons, and with all the sons of Israel. 

XXII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with Aharon and with his sons, that they keep 
apart from the consecrated things of the children of 
Israel, and profane not the Name of My Holiness (in 
whatever) they hallow before Me: I am the Lord. 
Say to them, Take heed in your generations :—What- 
ever man of all your sons who shall offer things hallowed, 
which the children of Israel have consecrated before the 
Lord, having his uncleanness upon him, that man shall 
be destroyed with a stroke of death before Me: J am 
the Lord. Any man, young or old of the offspring of 
Aharon, who is a leper, or hath a running issue, shall 
not eat of things consecrated till he be clean: and who- 
ever toucheth any uncleanness of man, or one from 
whom uncleanness hath proceeded, or who toucheth any 
reptile that maketh unclean, or (the corpse of) a dead 
man which maketh unclean, or any of the uncleanness 
of his life, the man being a priest who toucheth such 
shall be unclean until the evening, and may not eat of 
the holy things, except that he wash his flesh in forty 
seals of water. And when the sun hath set and he be 
fit, he may afterward eat of the holy things; for they 
are his food. But of a dead carcase, or (that which hath 


214 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


been) killed (by violence), he may not eat to defile him- 
self therewith. Iam the Lord. But the sons of Israel 
shall observe the keeping of My Word, that they may 
not bring sin upon themselves, nor die for it by the 
flaming fire; because they have profaned it: 1 am the 
Lord who sanctify them. 

No stranger or profane person shall eat of a consecra- 
ted thing, (neither) a son of Israel who is an inmate of 
the priest, nor any hireling, may eat of the hallowed 
thing. But if the priest buy a man a stranger with 
the price of his money, he may eat of it, and such as 
have grown up in jis house may eat of his bread. And 
the daughter of a priest, if she be married to a mana 
stranger, may not eat of things set apart by consecration. 
But if the daughter of a priest be a widow, or be divorced, 
and having no child by him hath returned to her father’s 
house, and hath not been wedded to a brother-in-law, 
(Deut. xxv. 5,) she, being as in the days of her youth, 
and not being with child, may eat of her father’s meat ; 
but no stranger shall eat thereof. And if a man of 
Israel eat that which is consecrated unknowingly, let 
him add a fifth part of its value to it, and give the (price 
of the) holy thing unto the priest. Let them not pro- 
fane the sacred things of the children of Israel which 
are set apart unto the Name of the Lord, nor let the sin 
of their trespass be found upon them, by eating in 
uncleanness their consecrated things; for I am the 
Lord who do sanctify them. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with Aharon, and with his sons, and with all the chil- 
dren of Israel :—A man, whether young or old, of the 
house of the family of Israel, or of the strangers who 
are in Israel, who shall offer his oblation of any of their 
vows, or their free will offerings which they present 
before the Lord for a burnt sacrifice, to be acceptable 


15 אס [.נצצ 


for you, it shall be perfect, a male of the bullocks, of 
the lambs, or of the young goats. But anything that 
hath a blemish you shall not offer; for that will not be 
acceptable from you. And if a man will offer a conse- 
crated victim before the Lord to fulfil a vow, or as a 
free will offering, from the herd, or from the flock, it 
must be perfect to be acceptable; no blemish shall be 
init. Whatever is blind, or broken-boned, or stricken 
in the evelids, or whose eyes are stricken with a mixture 
of white and dark, or one filled with scurvy or the 
blotches of murrain, you shall not offer before the Lord, 
nor present an oblation of them on the altar before the 
Lord. A bullock or a ram that hath superfluity or 
deficiency of the testicles, you may make a free will 
offering, but for a vow it will not be acceptable. That 
which is crushed, or ruptured, or diseased, or enervated, 
you shall not offer to the Name of the Lord; and in 
your land you shall not emasculate. And from the 
hand of a son of the Gentiles you shall not offer the 
oblation of your God of any of these, because their cor- 
ruption is in them; a blemish is in them, they are pro- 
fane, they shall not be acceptable for you. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying (to the 
effect that): What time thou callest to our mind the 
order of our oblations, as they shall be offered year by 
year, being our expiatory offering for our sins, when on 
account of our sins (such sacrifices are required), and we 
have none to bring from our flocks of sheep, then shall 
a bullock be eae before him, in memorial of the 
righteousness of the elder who came from the east, the 
sincere one who brought the calf, fat and tender, to Thy 
Name. A sheep is to be chosen, secondly, in memory 
of the righteousness of him who was bound as a lamb on 
the altar, and who stretched forth his neck for Thy 
Name’s sake, while the heavens stooped down and con- 


216 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cuap. 


descended, and Izhak beheld their foundations, and his 
eyes were blinded by the high things ; on which account 
he was reckoned to be worthy that a lamb should be 
provided for him as a burnt offering. A kid of the goats 
is to be chosen likewise, in memorial of the righteous- 
ness of that perfect one who made the savoury meat of 
the kid, and brought it to his father, and was made 
worthy to receive the order of the blessing: wherefore 
Mosheh the prophet explaineth, saying: Sons of Israel, 
my people, When a bullock, or a lamb, or a kid is 
brought forth according to the manner of the world, it 
shall be seven days after its dam, that there may be 
evidence that it is not imperfect ; and on the eighth day 
and thenceforth, it is acceptable to be offered an obla- 
tion to the Name of the Lord. Sons of Israel, my 
people, as our Father in heaven is merciful, so shall you 
be merciful on earth: neither cow, nor ewe, shall you 
sacrifice along with her young on the same day. And 
when you offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving to the Name 
of the Lord, you shall offer so as to be accepted. It 
shall be eaten on that day, none shall remain till the 
morning: Tam the Lord. And you shall observe My 
commandments to do them. Iam the Lord who give 
a good reward to them who keep My commandments 
and My laws. Nor shall you profane My Holy Name, 
that I may be hallowed among the children of Israel. 
Tam the Lord who sanctify you, having brought you 
forth redeemed from the land of Mizraim, that I may 
be to you Eloah: I am the Lord. : 

[JenusaLeM. In the time that thou remindest us of 
the order of the oblations as they are to be offered year 
by year; our offerings are to make atonement for our 
sins. But when our sins have given occasion, and we 
have not wherewith to bring from our flocks of sheep, 
a bullock is to be chosen before Me, to recall to remem- 


ON LEVITICUS. 217‏ [.זזוצצ 


- 


brance the elder of the east, sincere altogether, who 
brought to Thy Name a calf tender and good, which he 
gave to the young man, who hasted to dress it, and to 
bake unleavened cakes; and the angels did eat, and he 
was accounted worthy to receive the announcement that, 
behold, Sarah should give birth to Izhak. A lamb is to 
be chosen, secondly, to call to remembrance the righte- 
ousness of the prince who suffered himself to be bound 
upon the altar, and stretched forth his neck for Thy 
Name’s sake; when.the heavens stooped down and 
condescended, and Izhak beheld their foundations, and 
his eyes were blinded by the high things (or, from the 
heights), on which account he was held worthy that a 
lamb should be provided in his stead for a burnt offer- 
ing. A kid of the goats also is to be chosen, to call to 
remembrance the righteousness of that perfect one who 
put on the skins of the kids, and made savoury meat, 
and brought of his viands unto his father, and gave 
wine to him to drink ; on account of which he was held 
worthy to receive the orders of blessings from Izhak his 
father, that the twelve sacred tribes should arise to Thy 
Name. Behold, then, how Mosheh, the prophet of the 
Lord, expoundeth, and saith, Sons of Israel, my people, 
When a bullock, or a lamb, or a goat is brought forth, 
it shall be seven days after its dam; on the eighth day 
and thenceforth it shall be fit to be offered as an obla- 
tion to the Name of the Lord.] 

XXII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying : 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them, The 
orders of the time of the Festivals of the Lord, which you 
shall proclaim as holy convocations,—these are the orders 
of the time of My festivals. Six days shalt thou do work, 
and the seventh day (shall be) a Sabbath and a rest, a holy 
convocation. No manner of work may you do; 16 isa 
Sabbath to the Lord in every place of your habitations. 

L 


218 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


These are the times of tlie Festivals of the Lord, holy 
convocations which you shall proclaim in their times: 
In the month of Nisan, on the fourteenth day of the 
month, between the suns (shall be) the time for the 
sacrifice of the Pascha to the Name of the Lord. And 
on the fifteenth day of this month the feast of un- 
leavened cakes to the Name of the Lord. Seven days 
you shall eat unleavened bread. On the first day of the 
feast a holy convocation shall be to you; ye shall do no 
work of labour, but offer the oblation to the Name of 
the Lord seven days; in the seventh day of the feast 
shall be a holy convocation; you shall do no work of 
labour. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with the sons of Israel, and say to them: When you 
have entered into the land which I give you, and 
you reap the harvest, you shall bring the sheaf of 
the first fruits of your harvest unto the priest ; 
and he shall uplift the sheaf before the Lord to be 
accepted for you. After the first festal day of Pascha 
(or, the day after the feast-day of Pascha) on the day on 
which you elevate the sheaf, you shall make (the sacri- 
tice of ) a lamb of the year, unblemished, a burnt offering 
untg the Name of the Lord: and its mincha, two- 
tenths of flour, mingled with olive oil, for an oblation to 
the Name of the Lord, to be received with acceptance ; 
and its libation, wine of grapes, the fourth of a hin. 
But neither bread nor parched corn (of the ripe harvest) 
nor new ears may you eat until this day, until the time 
of your bringing the oblation of your God: an ever- 
lasting statute unto your generations in all your dwel- 
lings, 

And number to you after the first feast day of Pascha, 
from the day when you brought the sheaf for the eleva- 
tion, seven weeks; complete they shall be. Until the 


ON LEVITICUS. 219‏ [.זזדצצ 


day after the seventh week you shall number fifty days, 
and shall offer a mincha of the new bread unto the 
Name of the Lord. From the place of your dwellings 
you are to bring the bread for the elevation; two cakes 
of two-tenths of flour, which must be baked with leaven, 
as first fruits unto the Name of the Lord. And with 
that bread you are to offer seven lambs of the year, 
unblemished, and a young bullock without mixture (of 
colour), the one for a sin offering, and two lambs of the 
year for a sanctified oblation. And you shall make (a 
sacrifice) of a young goat without mixture, the one for 
a sin offering, and two lambs of the year for a sanctified 
oblation. And the priest shall uplift them with the 
bread of the first fruits, an elevation before the Lord, 
with the two lambs; they shall be holy to the Name of 
the Lord, and shall be for the priest. And you shall 
proclaim with life and strength that self-same day, that 
at the time of that day there shall be to you a holy con- 
vocation: you shall do no work of labour: it is an 
everlasting statute in all your dwellings for your gene- 
rations. 

And when you reap the harvest of your ground, you 
shall not finish one corner that is in thy field at thy 
reaping, nor shalt thou gather the gleanings of thy 
harvest, but leave them for the poor and the strangers: 
Tam the Lord thy God. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak with 
the children of Israel, saying: In Tishri, which is the 
seventh month, shall be to you a festival of seven 
days, 8 memorial of trumpets, a holy convocation. No 
work of labour may you do, but offer an oblation before 
the Lord unto the Name of the Lord. And the Lord 
spake with Mosheh, saying: But on the tenth day of 
this seventh month is the Day of Atonement; a holy 
convocation shall it be to you, aud you shall humble 


9 ז 


220 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


your souls, (abstaining) from food, and from drink, aud 
from the use of the bath, and from anointing, and the 
use of the bed, and from sandals; and you shall offer 
an oblation before the Lord, and do no work on this 
same day ; for it is the Day of Atonement, to make atone- 
ment for you before the Lord your God. For every 
man who eateth in the fast, and will not fast that same 
day, shall be cut off by death from among his people. 
{JeRnusatem. For every soul who hideth himself from 
fasting, and fasteth not on the day of the fast of his 
atonement.] And every man who doeth any work on 
that same day, that man will I destroy with death from 
among his people. No work of labour may you do: 
an everlasting statute for your generations, in all your 
dwellings. It is a Sabbath and time of leisure for you 
to humble your souls. And you shall begin to fast at 
the ninth day of the mouth at even time; from that 
evening until the next evening shall you fast your fast, 
and repose in your quietude, that you may employ the 
time of your festivals with joy. [Jrrusates. From 
evening to evening you shall fast your fast, and repose 
in your quietude, that you may employ the time of your 
festivals with joy. ] 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak with 
the sons of Israel: In the fifteenth day of this seventh 
month shall be the Feast of Tabernacles, seven days 
unto the Name of the Lord. On the first day of the 
feast is a holy convocation ; no work of labour may you 
do. Seven days you shall offer an oblation to the Name 
of the Lord, you shall gather together to pray before the 
Lord for rain ; no work of labour may vou do. These 
are the times of the order of the Lord’s festivals which 
you are to convoke for holy convocations, to offer an 
oblation to the Name of the Lord, a burnt sacrifice and 
a mincha, sanctified offerings and libations, the rite of a 


XXIv.] ON LEVITICUS. 221 


day in its day; beside the days of the Lord’s Sabbaths, 
beside your gifts, and beside your vows, and beside 
your free-will offerings which you bring before the 
Lord. But on the fifteenth of the seventh month, at 
the time when you collect the produce of the ground, 
you shall solemnize a festival of the Lord seven days. 
On the first day, rest ; and on the eighth day, rest. And 
of your own shall you take on the first day of the feast, 
the fruits of praiseworthy trees, citrons, and lulabin, and 
myrtles, and willows that grow by the brooks; and you 
shall rejoice before the Jord your God seven days. 
[Jerusatem. Citrons and lulabs.] And you shall 
solemnize it before the Lord seven days in the year, by 
an everlasting statute in your generations shall you 
observe it in the seventh month. In tabernacles of two 
sides according to their rule, and the third a hand- 
breadth (higher), that its shaded part may be greater thau 
that into which cometh the sunshine ;* to be made for 
a bower (or shade) for the feast, from different kinds 
(of materials) which spring from the earth and are up- 
rooted: in measure seven palms, but the height within 
ten palms. In it you shall sit seven days;’ the males 
in Israel, and children who need not their mothers, shall 
sit in the tabernacles, blessing their Creator whenever 
they enter thereinto. That your generations may know 
how, under the shadow of the cloud of glory, I made 
the sons of Israel to dwell at the time that I brought 
them out redeemed from the land of Mizraim. And 
Mosheh declared the time of the orders of the Lord’s 
festivals, and taught them to the sons of Israel. 

XXIV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Command the children of Israel that they bring, of their 
own, pure beaten olive oil for the light, that the lamps 


5 Vide Mishna, order ii., treatise 17, 50/0000. 
7 One meal at least each day in the bower. 


222 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


may burn continually, on the day of Sabbath, and on 
the day of work; outside of the veil of the testimony 
for evermore, because the Shekinah dwelleth in Israel : 
in the tabernacle of ordinance shall Aharon order it 
from evening till morning before the Lord continually, 
by an everlasting statute unto your generations. 

And thou shalt take flour, and bake thereof twelve 
cakes, according to the twelve tribes; two tenths shall 
be one cake. And thou shalt set them in two orders 
(rows), six in one order, end six in the other upon the 
table in its purity, as it is ordained before the Lord. 
And thou shalt put upon the orders pure frankincense, 
that it may be an oblation of memorial bread before the 
Lord. From Sabbath day to Sabbath day he shall order 
it anew before the Lord continually from the children of 
Israel. This shall be an everlasting statute. And it 
shall be for Aharon and for his sons, and they shall eat 
it after they have taken it from off the table in the holy 
place ; for it is most sacred to him of the oblations of 
the Lord by an everlasting statute. 

But a wicked man, a rebel against the God of heaven, 
had come out of Mizraim, the son of the Mizraite man 
who had killed the man of Israel in Mizraim, and had 
gone in unto his wife, who conceived and bare a son 
among the children of Israel. And while the Israelites 
were dwelling in the wilderness, he had sought to spread 
his tent in the midst of the tribe of the children of Dan; 
but they would not permit him, because in the arrange- 
ments of Israel every man dwelt with his family by the en- 
signs of the house of their fathers. And they contended 
together in the camp, and the son of the Israelitess with 
a man of Israel, who was of the tribe of Dan, went to 
the house of judgment; and when they had come out 
from the house of judgment, where he had been con- 
demned, the son of the daughter of Israel expressed and 


XXIV. | ON LEVITICUS. 223 


reviled the great and glorious Name of Manifestation 
which he had heard at Sinai, and defied and execratcd ; 
and the name of his mother was Shelomith, the daughter 
of Dibree, of the tribe of Dan. [Jenusarem. And the 
son of the woman of Israel reviled the Manifested Name, 
and defied.] 

This is one of four judgments which were brought in 
before Mosheh the prophet, who decided them by the 
dictate of the Word, who is above. They were judg- 
ments about money and about life. In the judgments 
on money Mosheh was prompt; but in the judgment 
on life he was deliberate (or slow by delay). And to 
each (party) Mosheh said, I have not heard: that he 
might teach the chiefs of the Sanhedrin of Israel, who 
were to arise after him, to be prompt in judgments 
respecting money, but slow in judgments that affected 
life; and not to be ashamed to inquire for counsel in 
cases that should be too hard for them, forasmuch as 
Mosheh, Rabban of Israel, had need to say, I have not 
heard. Therefore they shut him up in the house of 
confinement till the time that it should be explained to 
them by the decree of the Word of the Lord. 

[Jerusatem. This is one of four judgments that 
were brought before Mosheh our Rabbi. In two of 
them was Mosheh slow by delay, and in two of them 
was Mosheh expeditious. With the blasphemer who 
blasphemed the Holy Name with scoffings, and with the 
gatherer of sticks who profaned the Sabbath, Mosheh 
had delay, because they were judgments that affected 
life; but in the case of unclean persons who could 
not perform the Pascha in its time, and in that of the 
daughters of Zelophehad, Mosheh could be prompt, 
because they were judgments on temporal matters. But 
to those he would say, I have not heard: to teach the 
judges who were to arise after Mosheh to be slow in 


224 TARGUM OF PALESTINE ,גא‎ 


judgments on life, and to be expeditious in judgments 
of Mammon; and not to be ashamed to say, I have not 
heard; for Mosheh our Rabban said, I have not heard. 
And they shut him up in confinement, while as yet it 
had not been explained to them from before the Lord 
with what judgments they were to deal with him.] 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Bring 
forth the blasphemer without the camp, and let the 
165838 who heard his blasphemy, and the judges, lay 
their hands upon his head, and let the whole congrega- 
tion stone him with stones. And speak thou with the 
sons of Israel, saying: A man young or old who shall 
blaspheme the known Name of his God shal! bear his 
sin. Whosoever expresseth and revileth the Name of 
the Lord shall verily be put to death; all the congre- 
gation shall cast stones upon him, whether he be a 
sojourner or native-born, when he hath blasphemed the 
Name that is Alone, he shall die. 

And if a man destroy the life of any one of the 
children of Israel, he shall verily be put to death by the 
sword. And he who destroyeth the life of an animal 
shall make it good, a living animal for a living one. 
And a man who inflicteth a blemish on his neighbour, 
whatsoever he hath done it shall be done unto him: the 
value of a fracture for a fracture; the value of an eye 
for an eye; the value of a tooth fora tooth ; whatsoever 
blemish he inflicteth upon the man, the same shall be 
rendered unto him. [JErusatem. Fracture shall be 
recompensed by fracture, an eye shall be recompensed 
by an eye, a tooth for a tooth, the blemish he hath 
given to the man if shall be given unto him.] He who 
killeth a beast shall restore it; but he who slayeth a 
man shall be slain. One judgment shall you have for 
the stranger and for the native; for I am the Lord your 
God. And Mosheh spake with the sons of Israel, and 


xxv. ] ON LEVITICUS. 225 


they brought forth the blasphemer without the camp, 
and stoned him with stones; and the sons of Israel 
did it, by laying their hands upon, leading him away, 
hanging, and burying him, as the Lord had commanded 
Mosheh. 





SECTION XXXII. 
BEHAR SINAI. 


XXY. Anp the Lord spake with Mosheh in the 
mountain of Sinai, saying: Speak with the children of 
Israel, and say to them: When you have entered into 
che land that I will give to you, then shall the ground 
rest for a rest before the Lord. Six years you shall sow 
your fields, and six years prune your vineyards and 
gather in the fruit; but in the seventh year there shall 
be a rest of remission to the earth, that she may rest 
before the Lord; you shall not sow your fields, nor 
prune your vineyards. The after crop which remaineth 
from your harvests you may not reap, nor of your later 
grapes make a vintage; a year of remission it shall be 
unto the earth ; but the remission 5 of the ground shall 
be to you for food, to thee, to thy servant, and to thine 
handmaid, and to thy hireling, and to the stranger who 
dwelleth with thee; and for thy cattle and for the 
animals that are in thy land shall be the produce of it 
(also). 

And thou shalt number to thee seven Sabbaths of 
years, seven times seven years, and they shall be to thee 
the sum of the days of seven Sabbaths (or remissions, 
shemittin) of years, forty and nine years. And thou 


5 The produce yielded spontaneously during the time of remission to 
be enjoyed in cominon. So Rashi, Eben Ezra, and Bar Nachman. 


L 5 


226 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (cHaP. 


shalt make the voice of the trumpet to sound a jubilee; 
in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, 
on the Day of the Expiations thou shalt make the voice 
of the trumpet of Liberty to pass through all your land. 
And you shall sanctify that year, the fiftieth year, and 
proclaim liberty in the land of Israel to all the inhabit- 
ants; Jubela shall it be to you, and you shall return 
every man to his inheritance, and every man unto his 
family, you shall return. The year of Jubela shall that 
fiftieth be to you: ye shall not sow, nor reap the after 
crop, nor make vintages of the grapes which have been 
let alone. For that Jubela shall be sacred to you, the 
produce of the field shall you eat. In this year of 
Jubela you shall return every man unto his inheritance. 

And when you sell sales to your neighbours, or you 
buy disposable (or moveable) goods from the hand of 
your neighbours, it is not allowable for a man to defraud 
his neighbour. Sons of Israel, My people, if you sell a 
field or a vineyard, according to the sum of the number 
of years after the Jubela you shall buy of your neigh- 
bour; according to the number of years for gathering 
the produce they shall sell it to you; according to the 
greatness of the amount of the years shall the price be 
enlarged ; and according to the smallness of the amount 
of the years the price shall be diminished, because he sells 
to thee the amount of the fruitage to be ingathered. 
And you shal] not overreach one man his neighbour by 
hard words, but fear your God: I am the Lord your 
God. And you shall perform My statutes, and observe 
the order of My judgments and do them, that you may 
dwell upon the land securely. And the land will yield 
her produce, and you shall eat and be satisfied, and 
dwell upon the land in security. 

But if you say, What. shall we eat in the seventh 
year; behold, we sow not, nor ingather even the after 


Xxv.] ON LEVITICUS. 227 


crop of our provision? I will command My blessing 
upon you from my treasures of goodness, which are in 
the heaven of My Presence, in the sixth year, and it will 
create produce that will suffice for three years. But 
you shall sow in the eighth year, and eat of the old pro- 
duce of the sixth year until the ninth year; until the 
time of the incoming of the new produce, shall you eat 
of the old. 

And the land of Israel shall not be sold absolutely, 
for the land is Mine; for you are sojourners and guests 
with Me. And in all the land of your possession you 
shall let the ground have redemption. 

And if thy brother hath become poor and hath sold 
his possession, his redeemer who is near of kin to him 
may come and redeem the sale of his brutner. But if a 
man have no one who is qualified to redeem that which 
he hath sold, and it befall to his own hand to find the 
price of its redemption, then let him count the sum of 
the years of its sale,and give the amount to the man 
who bought it, and return to his possession. But if his 
hand meet not with the price that he should give him, 
then the property sold shall (remain) in the hand of him 
who bought it until the year of Jubela, and shall then 
go out without money, and he shall return to his 
possession. 

And if a man sell a dwelling-house, in a town sur- 
rounded by a wall, it may have redemption until the 
completing of the year from its sale: from time to time 
shall be its redemption. But if it be not redeemed at 
the completing of the full year, the house that is in a 
walled town shall be confirmed absolutely to him who 
bought it, unto his generations: it shall not go out at 
the Jubela. But houses in villages which have no walls 
round about them, are to be accounted as tents which 
are spread upon the fields of the earth; they may be 


228 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


redeemed, and they shall go out at the Jubela. But the 
cities of the Levites, the houses of the cities of their 
possession may be always redeemable by the Levites. 
And when one hath purchased of the Levites the house 
that was sold in the cities of their possession, it shall go 
out at the Jubela; for the houses of the Levites are 
their inheritance among the children of Israel, But a 
field in the suburbs of their cities shall not be sold, for 
it is an everlasting possession for them. [J&RUSALEM. 
But a field in the suburbs of their cities shall not be 
sold, because a possession]. 

And if thy brother hath become poor, and his hand 
wavereth with thee, then thou shalt strengthen and do 
him good, as a guest and a sojourner he shall be 
nourished with thee. My people of the house of Israel, 
you shall not take usuries or remunerations (in his case), 
but thou shalt fear thy God, and let thy brother have 
nourishment with thee. My people of the house of 
Israel, you shall not lend him for usury, nor give (him) 
your provisions for increase. [JervsaLem. Thy money 
thou shalt not lend him for usuries, nor give thy food 
for increase]. Iam the Lord your God, who redeemed 
and brought you out redeemed from the land of Mizraim, 
to give unto you the land of Kenaan, and to be unto 
you Eloha. 

If thy brother with thee shall have become poor, and 
have sold himself unto thee, thou shalt not make him 
serve according to the laws of the service of bondmen ; 
but as a hired man and as a sojourner shall he serve with 
thee, until the year of Jubela shall he serve thee. Then 
shall he go out from thee at liberty, he and his children 
with him, and return to his family, and to the heritage 
of his fathers shall he return. For they are My servants 
whom I brought forth redeemed from the land of Miz- 
raim; they shall not be sold according to the laws of 


xxv. ] ON LEVITICUS. 229 


the sale of bondmen. Neither may you make him 
serve with rigour, but thou shalt fear the Lord thy God. 
But your bondmen and your handmaids which you may 
have, of the handmaids of the Gentiles, of them you may 
purchase bondmen and handmaids. 

Moreover, of the children of the uncircumcised 
strangers who sojourn among you, of them you may buy, 
and of their families that are with you, which they have 
begotten in your land; but not from the Kenaanaee ; 
and they shall be yours for possession. And you may 
leave them to your children after you, to inherit as a 
perpetual possession; them you shall make to serve: 
but of your brethren of the sons of Israel no man 
(may enslave) his fellow; them shall you not make to 
serve with rigour. 

And if the hand of the uncircumcised sojourner with 
you wax strong, and thy brother with him become poor, 
and sell himself to the uncircumcised stranger who is 
with thee, or to the stock of a strange religion, to serve 
him or to worship with him who is of the generation of 
strangers ; when it is known to you that he hath been sold, 
forthwith redemption shall be his; one of his brethren 
shall redeem him; either the brother of his father or 
the son of his father’s brother may redeem him; or a 
kinsman of the flesh of his family may redeem him; or 
by his own hand being made strong, or by the hand of 
the congregation, he may be redeemed. And he shall 
account with the uncircumcised person who had bought 
him, from the year that he was sold until the year of 
Jubela, and the price of his re-purchase sliall be accord- 
ing to the number of the years; according to the days 
of an hireling shall it be with him. If yet there be 
many years, according to their number he shall give for 
his redemption of the money that he was bought for. 
But if few years remain till the year of Jubela, he shall 


230 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


compute with him, and according to the amount of the 
years give for his redemption. As a hireling by the 
year shall he be with him, and his master shall not make 
him to serve with rigour while thou see it. But if he 
be not redeemed within those years, he shall go out free 
at the year of Jubela, he and his children with him. 
For the sons of Israel are Mine, to obey My laws; My 
servauts are they whom I brought out redeemed from 
the land of Mizraim. Iam the Lord your God. 

XXVI. You shall not make to you idols or images, 
nor erect for you statues to worship, neither a figured 
stone® shall ye place in your land to bow yourselves 
toward it. [Jerusateu. Nor a stone for an idol.] 
Nevertheless a pavement sculptured with imagery you 
may set on the spot of your sanctuary, but not to worship 
it: I am the Lord your God. The days of My Sab- 
baths you shall keep, and walk to the house of My 
sanctuary in My fear; 1 am the Lord. 


SECTION .א‎ 


BECHUKKOTHAI. 


Tr you will go forward in the statutes of My law, and 
keep the orders of My judgments, and perform them, 
then will I give you the rains for your lands in your 
seasons, the early and the late, and the land shall yield 
the fruits of increase, and the tree on the face of the 
field shall be prosperous in its fruit. And with you the 
threshing shall reach to the vintage, and the vintage 
unto the springing of the seed, and you shall eat your 
bread and be satisfied, and dwell securely in your land. 

9 Glossary, p. 23, 


XXVI.] ON LEVITICUS. 231 


And I will give peace in the land of Israel, that you may 
repose, and there be none to disturb; and I will make 
the power of the wild beast to cease from the land of 
Israel, and the unsheather of the sword shall not pass 
through your land. And you shall chase your adver- 
saries, aud they will fall before you broken with the 
sword. And five of you will chase a hundred, and a 
hundred of you put a myriad to flight, and your adver- 
saries shall fall before you, broken with the sword. For 
I will turn from the wages of the Gentiles, to fulfil to 
you the recompense of your good works, and I will 
strengthen you, and multiply you, and establish My 
covenant with you. And you shall eat the old that is 
old without having the corn-worm, and the old from 
before the new produce shall ye turn out of your barns. 
And I will set the Shekinah of My Glory among you, 
and my Word shall not abhor you, but the Glory of My 
Shekinah shall dwell among you, and My Word shall be 
to you for a redeeming God, and you shall be unto My 
Name for a holy people. I am the Lord your God, who 
brought you out redeemed from the land of Muizraim, 
that you should not be bondmen to them, and brake 
the yoke of their bondage from off you, and brought 
you out from among them, the children of liberty, and 
led you forth with an erect stature. 

But if you will be unwilling to hear the instructions 
of the doctrine of My law, and to perform all these 
precepts with your free choice; and if you despise My 
statutes, and hate in your soul the orders of My judg- 
ments, to do not all My precepts, but your purpose be to 
abolish My covenant; this also will I do to you: I will 
draw out against you the smiting pestilence, the flame 
and the fever, to consume your eyes, and to exhaust life ; 
and ye shall sow your seed in vain, for it shall not 
spring up, aud that which groweth of itself shall your 


282 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


enemies devour. And I will appoint a reverse to your 
affairs, and you shall be broken before your foes, and 
they who hate you shall rule over you; and you will 
flee when no one pursueth you. And if after these 
chastisements ye be not willing to obey the doctrines of 
My law, I will add to punish you with seven plagues, 
for the seven transgressions with which you have sinned 
before Me. And I will break down the glory of the 
strength of your sanctuary, and will make the heavens 
above you obdurate as iron, to yield no moisture, nor 
send you dew or rain, and the ground beneath you to be 
like brass to put forth (only) to destroy its fruit. And 
your strength shall be consumed in vain, for your land 
shall not yield what you bestow upon it, and the tree 
upon the face of the field shall drop its fruit. And if 
you still walk perversely with Me, and will not hearken 
to the doctrine of My law, I will add to bring upon you 
(yet) seven plagues, for the seven transgressions with 
which ye have sinned before Me; and I will send 
against you the strength of the wild beast, to make you 
childless, and to destroy your cattle without, and to 
diminish you within, and your highways shall be de- 
solate. 

And if by these chastisements ye will not be corrected 
before Me, but will walk before Me perversely, I will 
Myself also remember you adversely iu the world, and 
will destroy you, even I, with seven plagues, for seven 
transgressions with which ye have sinned before Me. 
And I will bring against you a people unsheathing the 
sword to take vengenance upon you, for that you will 
have abolished My covenant ; and when you are gathered 
together from the wilderness into your cities, I will send 
the pestilence among you, or deliver you to die by the 
hand of your adversaries. And when I shall have 
broken for you the staff of all the subsistence of food, 


Xxv1.] ON LEVITICUS. 233 


then ten women may bake your bread in one oven on 
account of its scarcity, and measure and divide it to 
you diminished in weight, and you will eat and not be 
satisfied. 

But if by no one correction ye will hearken to the 
instruction of My law, but will walk perversely before 
Me, I will also remember you adversely in the world, 
and will chastise you, even I, with seven plagues, for the 
seven transgressions with which ye have sinned before 
Me. And ye shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the 
flesh of your daughters. Mosheh the prophet hath said, 
How heavy will have been the guilt, and how bitter 
those sins, that.caused our fathers to eat the flesh of 
their sons, and the flesh of their daughters, because they 
kept not the commandments of the law! |] 
How evil that guilt, and how bitter those sins, which 
caused our fathers in Jerusalem to eat the flesh of their 
sons and their daughters!] And I will destroy your high 
places, and overthrow your diviners and your enchanters, 
and your carcases will I cast away with the carcases of 
your idols, and My Word shall abhor you. And I will 
make your cities desert places, and desolate your sanc- 
tuary; nor will I receive with acceptance the odour of 
your oblations. And I, even I, will lay your country 
waste, that the spirit of quietness may not be upon it; 
so that your enemies who will dwell in it shall be con- 
founded. And you will I disperse among the nations; 
for I will stir up against you a people who draw the 
sword, and your country shall be devastated, and your 
cities be solitary. Behold, then shall the land enjoy the 
years of its Sabbaths all the days that it is forsaken of 
you, and you are wanderers in the land of your enemies. 
All the days that it is forsaken by you it shall rest, 
because it was not at rest in the years of the times for 
repose when you were dwellers upon it. 


234 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


And unto those of you who remain will I bring 
brokenness of their hearts in the land of their enemies ; 
and the sound of a leaf falling from the ttee shall put 
them to flight ; and they shall flee as those who flee from 
the sword, and fall, while no man pursueth. And they 
shall thrust each man his brother, as before them who 
draw the sword, though none pursue; and you shall 
have no power of resistance to stand before your adver- 
saries. And you shall perish among the nations, and be 
consumed with pestilence in the land of your enemies. 
And those who remain of you shall fail (melt away) for 
their sins in the land of your enemies, and also for the 
evil sin of your fathers which they held fast in their 
hands: like them shall they melt away. 

But (when) in the hour of their need they shall con- 
fess their sins, and the sins of their fathers, with their 
falseness with which they have acted falsely against My 
Word; and that they have acted frowardly also with 
Me, so that I have remembered them adversely in the 
world, and brought them into captivity in the land of 
their enemies ; behold, then will their proud heart have 
been broken, and they will make confession of their 
sins, and I will remember in mercy the covenant which 
I confirmed with Jakob at Bethel, and the covenant 
which I covenanted with Izhak at Mount Moriah, 
and the covenant which I covenanted with Abraham, 
between the divided portions, I will remember, and the 
land of Israel will I remember in mercy. But the land 
shall (first) be relinquished and forsaken by you; and 
enjoy the repose of her remissions all the days that it 
shall be deserted by you. And they will receive retri- 
bution for their sins: curses instead of blessings will 
come upon them, measure for measure: because they 
shunned the orders of My judgments, and their souls 
revolted from the covenant of My law. 


xxv1.] ON LEVITICUS. 235 


Yet for all this I will have mercy upon them by My 
Word, when they are captives in the land of their 
enemies, 1 will not spurn them away in the kingdom of 
Babel; nor shall My Word abhor them in the kingdom 
of Madai, to destroy them in the kingdom of Javan, or 
to abolish My covenant with them in the kingdom of 
Edom ;' for I am the Lord in the days of Gog? 
[JerusateM. And I will remember in mercy the cove- 
nant which I established with Jakob at Bethel; and 
the covenant which I confirmed with Izhak at Mount 
Moriah, and the covenant I confirmed with Abraham 
between the divided parts I will remember in mercy; 
and the land of Israel will I remember in mercy. Yet 
the land shall be forsaken by you, and shall enjoy the 
repose of her remission (times) all the days that she is 
deserted of you. And they ‘shall be broken for their 
sins; with measure for measure, and orders for orders, 
because they spurned the order of My judgments. Yet 
for this, when dwellers in the land of their enemies, I 
will not spurn them away in the kingdom of Babel, nor 
abhor them in the kingdom of Madai, nor destroy them 
in the kingdom of Javan, (Greece,) to abolish My cove- 
nant with them in the kingdom of Edom; for He (will 
be) the Lord your God in the days of Gog.] And 1 
will remember with them the covenant which I con- 
firmed before Me with their fathers in the time that I 
brought them out redeemed from the land of Mizraim ; 
when all the nations beheld all the mighty acts which I 
wrought for them, that I might be their God; I, the 
Lord. 

These are the statutes and the orders of the judg- 
ments and decrees of the law, which the Lord appointed 
between His Word and the sons of Israel, in the 
mountain of Sinai, by the hand of Mosheh. 


Rome. 2 Ezek. xxxix.; Zech. xiv.‏ י 


236 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaAP. 


XXVII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying : 
Speak with the children of Israel, and say to them: 
When a man willeth to set apart the separation of a 
vow, in the valuing of the life unto the name of the 
Lord, then his valuation for a male from twenty years 
old unto sixty years, fifty shekels, in the shekel of the 
sanctuary, shall be his valuation: but if for a female, 
his valuation shall be thirty shekels. And if it be a 
child from five years until twenty years, his estimation 
for a male shall be twenty shekels; and for a female, 
ten shekels. But for a child of a month old until five 
years, his estimation for a male shall be five silver 
shekels; and for a female, three silver shekels. More- 
over, for a man of sixty years and upwards, his estima- 
tion shall be fifteen shekels; and for a female, ten 
shekels. But if he be too poor for (such) a rate of his 
estimation, he shall stand before the priest; and the 
priest shall make an estimation for him, according to 
the ability of his hand, so shall the priest estimate for 
him. 

And if it be an animal, of such as are offered as an 
oblation before the Lord, whatever he giveth of it 
before the Lord shall be sacred. He shall not alter it, 
nor change it, that which is perfect for that which hath 
blemish, or that in which there is blemish for the 
perfect: but if by changing he will exchange animal 
for animal, both that and the one that is changed shall 
be consecrate. (JERUSALEM. And he shall not change 
it, good for bad, or bad for good: but if changing he 
will exchange animal for animal, both that and his 
changed one shall be sacred.] But if it be an unclean 
animal, of such as are not offered as an oblation before 
the Lord, he shall make the animal stand 86 
the priest. And the priest shall value it, whether 
good or bad; as the priest shall value, so shall 


XXVII.] ON LEVITICUS. 237 


it be. But if he would redeem it, let him add a 
fifth of its price upon that of its valuation. [Juru- 
saLEM. And if it be some unclean animal of such as 
are not offered as an oblation to the name of the Lord, 
let the priest order it, whether good or bad; according 
to the priest’s valuation shall it be....... And let him 
add a fifth of its price above its valuation. ] 

When a man would consecrate his house, as a con- 
secrated thing before the Lord; the priest shall value 
it, whether good or bad; according as the priest shall 
estimate, so shall it stand. [JerusaLemw. A sanctified 
thing unto the name of the Lord: then the priest shall 
order: as the priest hath ordered it shall be.] And if 
he who hath consecrated would redeem his house, let 
him add a fifth of the price of its valuation thereunto, 
and it shall be his. [Jenvsatem. And if he who hath 
made sacred...... a fifth of the price of its valuation 
upon it, and it shall be his.] 

And if a man would dedicate (a portion) of the field 
of his inheritance before the Lord, the valuation of it 
shall be according to the measure of its seed: a space on 
which may be sown a kor (seventy-five and a half pints) 
of barley (shall be considered) worth fifty shekels of 
silver. If he will dedicate the ground from the year of 
Jubela, it shall stand according to its valuation. But 
if he will dedicate his field after the year of Jubela, the 
priest shall compute with him the sum of the money 
according to the proportion of years that remain unto 
the next Jubela year, and shall abate it from the valua- 
tion. [JeRusatem. And if a man would separate (a 
portion) of a field of his inheritance unto the Name of 
the Lord, its valuation shall be according to its sowing, 
a chomer of barley seed....... And if he separate his 
field from the year of Jubela, according to its value it 
shall stand.] And if he would redeem the field that he 


2338 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


had consecrated, let him add one fifth of the money 
upon its valued price, and it shall be confirmed to him. 
[Jenusates. And if he would redeem that field which 
had been consecrated, let him add a fifth of the silver 
shekels above its estimation, and it shall be his.] But 
if he will not redeem the field, but sell it to another 
man, it shall not be redeemed again: the field, when it 
goeth out at the Jubela, shall be sacred before the 
Lord; as a field separated for the priest it shall be his 
inheritance. [Jerusatem. It shall be a sanctified thing 
unto the Lord, as a field of separation.] And if he 
would consecrate before the Lord a field which he hath 
bought, and which is not of the land of his inheritance, 
then the priest shall compute with him the amount of 
the price of its valuation until the year of Jubela; and 
he shall give its value on that day, as a consecrated 
thing before the Lord. In the year of Jubela the 
field shall return to him from whom he bought it, 
to him who had the inheritance of the land. And 
every valuation shall be in shekels of the sanctuary: 
twenty mahin are a shekel. [Jerusatem. And if 
he would consecrate a purchased field unto the Name 
of the Lord, then the priest shall compute with him the 
value of the separation unto the year of Jubela, and he 
shall give the separation of the value on that day, a 
holy thing unto the Name of the Lord. At the year of 
Jubela the field shall revert to him from whom he had 
bought it, to him who had the inheritance of the land. 
And every estimation shall be according to the shekels 
of the sanctuary. ] 

Moreover, the firstling among cattle which is sepa- 
rated to the Name of the Lord, whether ox or lamb, a 
man cannot separate (as a votive gift), because it (already 
belongeth) to the Name of the Lord. And if it be an 
unclean animal, then he shall redeem it according to its 


XXVIL. ] ON LEVITICUS. 239 


valuation, and add a fifth of the price to it; but if he 
will not redeem it, then it shall be sold at the price of 
its valuation. [Jertsatem. But the firstling among 
cattle, whether ox or lamb, which is separated before the 
Lord, belongeth (already) to the Name of the Lord. 
But if it be of an unclean animal, then let him redeem 
it according to its valuation, and add a fifth of its price 
unto it. And if it be not redeemed, it shall be sold 
according to its value. 

Nevertheless, no devoted thing which a man shall 
separate before the Lord of anything that is his, of man, 
or beast, or field of his inheritance, shall be sold or 
redeemed ; every (devoted) separation is most sacred be- 
fore the Lord. [Jerusatem. Only no devoted thing 
that a man shall separate to the Name of the Lord of 
anything that he hath of child or cattle; every separation 
is most sacred to the Name of the Lord.] very sepa- 
ration which shall be separated of man® shall not be 
redeemed with money, but with burnt offerings, and 
with sanctified victims, and with supplication for mercy 
before the Lord, because such are to be put to death. 
[JerusaLEm. Every oue of the children of men set 
apart( or devoted) shall not be redeemed ; dying, he shall 
be put to death. ] 

And all the tythe of the land, of the seed of the 
ground, or the fruits of the tree, is the Lord’s, and is 
most sacred before the Lord. But if a man will redeem 
any (part) of his tythes, he shall add a fifth part of its 
value thereunto. And every tythe of oxen and sheep, 
whatever passeth under the (tything) rod, the tenth shall 
be consecrated before the Lord. He shall not scrutinize 
between the good and the bad, nor exchange it; but if 


3 Every man who is devoted to death; the criminal guilty of murder; 
the Canaanites, also, at the the taking of 1011020, 6. 


940 TARGUM OF PALESTINE ON LEVITICUS. ]0. XXVII. 


changing he will exchange it, both it and that for which 
it is changed shall be sacred, and not be redeemed. 

These are the precepts which the Lord prescribed 
unto Mosheh, and of which not one must be trifled with 
(or, innovated upon); and He prescribed them to be 
shown unto the children of Israel at Mount Sinai. 
[JerusaLem. Verse 30: It pertaineth to the Name of 
the Lord; itis holy unto the Name of the Lord. 31: 
But if a man will redeem any portion of his tythe, let 
him add upon it a fifth part of its price; and every 
tythe of ox and sheep, whatever passeth under the rod, 
a tenth shall be holy unto the Name of the Lord. He 
shall not scrutinize between good and bad, nor exchange 
it; but if he will change it, then shall both it and that 
for which it is changed be sacred, and not be redeemed. 
These are the Commandments. ] 


END OF THE PALESTINIAN TARGUM ON VAIYIKRA, 


THE TARGUM OF ONKELOS 


ON 


THE BOOK BEMIDBAR 


OR 


NUMBERS. 


_— 


SECTION OF THE TORAH XXXIV. 
TITLE BEMIDBAR. 


I. Anp the Lord spake with Mosheh in the wilder- 
ness of Sinai, in the tabernacle of ordinance, on the first 
of the second month, in the second year of their coming 
out from the land of Mizraim, saying: Take the sum! 
of all the congregation of the children of Israel after 
their kindreds, and after the house of their fathers, with 
the number of their names, every male by their capita- 
tions: from a son of twenty years and upwards, every 
one who can go forth to war in Israel, thou and Aharon 
number them by their hosts. And with you let there 
be a man of each tribe, a man who is chief of the house 
of his fathers. And these are the names of the men who 
shall stand with you. Of Reuben, Elizur bar Shedeur ; 
of Shemeon, Shelumiel bar Zuri-Shaddai; of Jehudah, 
Nachshon bar Aminadab; of Issakar, Nethanel bar 
Zuar ; of Zebulon, Eliab bar Chelon; of the Beni-Joseph, 


—of Ephraim, Elishama bar Amihud ; of Menasheh, Gam- 
1 Chushban, “ reckoning, account.” 
M 


242 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


hel bar Pheda-Zur; of Benyamin, Abidan bar Gideoni ; 
of Dan, Achiezer bar Ami-Shaddai; of Asher, Phagiel 
bar Akran; of Gad, Eljasaph bar Dehuel; of Naphtali, 
Achira bar Enan. These were the called ones of the 
congregation, princes of the tribes of their fathers, chiefs 
of the thousands of Israel were they. 

And Mosheh and Aharon took these men who were 
expressed by their names; and they assembled all the 
congregation on the first of the second month, and they 
declared their pedigrees according to the house of their 
fathers, with the number of their names from twenty 
years old and upwards, by their polling. As the Lord 
conimanded Mosheh, he numbered them in the wilder- 
ness of Sinai. 

And the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel, by 
their generations and their families, according to the 
house of their fathers, with the number of their names, 
by their polls; every male from twenty years old and 
upward, all going forth in the host: of the tribe of 
Reuben were numbered forty and six thousand and five 
hundred. Of the sons of Shemeon, by their generations 
and their families and the house of their fathers, were 
numbered, by the number of their names, according to 
their polls, every male from twenty years old and up- 
wards, every one going forth in the host; of the tribe 
of Shemeon, were numbered fifty and nine thousand and 
three hundred. Of the sons of Gad, the generations of 
the families of the house of their fathers, according to 
the number of their names from twenty years old and 
upwards, every one going forth in the host; of the tribe 
of Gad, were numbered forty and five thousand and six 
hundred and fifty. Of the sons of Jehudah, the genera- 
tions of the families of the house of their fathers, by the 
number of their names, from twenty years old and up- 
wards, every one going forth in the host; of’ the tribe 


1.] ON NUMBERS. 243 


of Jehudah, were numbered seventy and four thousand 
and six hundred. Of the sons of Issakar, the genera- 
tions of the families of the house of their fathers, by 
the number of their names, from twenty years old and 
upwards, every one going forth in the host; of the 
tribe of Issakar, were numbered fifty and four thousand 
and four hundred. Of the tribe of Zebulon, the gene- 
rations of the families of the house of their fathers, by 
the number of their names, from a son of twenty years 
and upward, every one going forth in the host; of the 
tribe of Zebulon, were numbered fifty and seven thou- 
sand and four hundred. Of the sons of Joseph, the 
generations of the Beni Ephraim by the kindreds of the 
house of their fathers, in the number of their names, 
from a son of twenty years and upwards, every one 
going forth in the host; of the tribe of Ephraim, forty 
thousand and five hundred. The generations of the 
Beni Menasheh by the kindreds of the house of their 
fathers, in the number of their names, from a son of 
twenty years and upwards, every one going forth in the 
host; of the tribe of Menasheh, were numbered thirty 
and two thousand and two hundred. The generations 
of the sons of Benyamin, by the kindreds of the house 
of their fathers, in the number of their names, from a 
son of twenty years and upward, every one going forth 
in the host; of the tribe of Benyamin, were numbered 
thirty and five thousand and four hundred. The gene- 
rations of the Beni Dan, by the kindreds of the house of 
their fathers, in the number of their names, from a son 
of twenty years and upward, every one going forth in 
the host ; of the tribe of Dan, were numbered sixty and 
two thousand and seven hundred. Of the generations 
of the Beni Asher, by the kindreds of the house of their 
fathers, in the number of their names, from a son of 
twenty years and upward, every one going forth in the 
M 2 


244 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


host ; of the tribe of Asher, were numbered forty and 
one thousand and five hundred. The generations of 
the sons of Naphtali, by the kindreds of tlie house of 
their fathers, in the number of their names, from a son 
of twenty years and upwards, every one going forth in 
the host; of the tribe Naphtali, were numbered fifty 
and three thousand and four hundred. 

These were the numbered ones whom Mosheh and 
Aharon, and the twelve men, the princes of Israel, did 
number, severally, according to the house of their 
fathers. And all those who were numbered of the Beni 
Israel according to the house of their fathers, from a son 
of twenty years and upward, every one going forth in 
the host of Israel; all the numbered ones were six 
hundred and three thousand and five hundred and 
fifty. But the Levites, by the tribe of their fathers, 
were not numbered among them. 

And the Lord had spoken with Mosheh, saying: 
Only the tribe of Levi thou shalt not number, nor take 
the account of them among the sons of Israel. But 
thou shalt appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of 
the testimony, and over all its vessels, and over all that 
belongeth to it: and they shall carry the tabernacle 
and all its vessels, and serve it ; and they shall encamp 
round about the tabernacle. And when the tabernacle 
is to go forward, the Levites shall take it apart; and 
when the tabernacle is to be stationary, the Levites 
shall set it up; but the stranger who cometh nigh shall 
be put to death. 

And the sons of Israel shall encamp every man upon 
his own dwelling-place, and every man by his standard, 
according to their hosts. But the Levites shall dwell 
round about the tabernacle of the testimony, that there 
may not be wrath upon the congregation of the sons of 
Israel; and the Levites shall watch the watching of the 


1. ] ON NUMBERS. 245 


tabernacle of testimony. And the sons of Israel did 
according to all that the Lord commanded Mosheh, so 
did they. 

11. And the Lord spake with Mosheh and with 
Aharon, saying: Every man (shall encamp) by his 
standard, by the ensign of the house of their fathers 
shall the sons of Israel encamp. Over against the 
tabernacle of ordinance shall they encamp round about. 

The standard of the camp of Jehudah shall they 
pitch, according to their hosts, eastward toward the 
sunrise: aud the chief of the sons of Jehudah is 
Nachshon bar Aminadab.? And his host, and the 
number of them, seventy and four thousand and six 
hundred. And they who pitch next by him shall be 
the tribe of Issakar; and the chief of the sons of 
Issakar, Nethanel bar Zuar; and his host, and the num- 
bered of it, fifty and four thousand and four hundred. 
The tribe of Zebulon, and the chief of the sons of 
Zebulon, Eliab bar Chelon. And his host, and the 
numbered of them, fifty and seven thousand and four 
hundred. All that were numbered of the camp of 
Jehudah, a hundred and eighty and six thousand and four 
hundred, by their hosts: they shall go forward in front. 

The standard of the camp of Reuben (shall be) to 
the south, by their hosts: and the chief of the Beni 
Reuben, Elizur bar Shedeur. And his host, and the 
numbered of it, forty and six thousand and five hun- 
dred. And they who pitch by him shall be the tribe of 
Shemeon; and the chief of the Beni Shemeon, Shelu- 
miel bar Zuri-Shaddai; and his host, and the numbered 
of them, fifty and nine thousand and three hundred. 
And the tribe of Gad, and the chief of the Beni Gad, 
Eljasaph bar Dehuel ; and his host, and the numbered of 
them, forty and five thousand six hundred and fifty. 

2 Matt. i. 8,4; Luke iii. 32, 33. 


246 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHAP. 


All who were numbered of the camp of Reuben, a hun- 
dred and fifty and one thousand four hundred and 
fifty, by their hosts: they shall go forward secondly. 

But the tabernacle of ordinance shall be taken for- 
ward with the camp of the Levites, in the midst of the 
camp: as they encamp, so shall they go onward, every 
man in his place, by their standard. 

The standard of the camp of Ephraim, by their hosts, 
shall be to the west: and the chief of the Beni 
Ephraim, Elishama bar Ammihud. And his host and 
their numbered ones, forty thousand and five hundred. 
And they who shall be nest by him shall be the tribe of 
Menasheh: and the chief of the Beni Menasheh, 
Gamliel bar Phedazur. And his host, and the num- 
bered thereof, thirty and two thousand and two hun- 
dred. And the tribe of Benyamin, and the chieftain of 
the sons of Benyamin, Abidan bar Gideoni: and his 
host, and the numbered thereof, thirty and five thousand 
and four hundred. All the numbered of the camp of 
Ephraim were a hundred and eight thousand and one 
hundred, by their hosts: and they went forward thirdly. 

The standard of the camp of Dan (shall be) to the 
north, by their hosts; and the chieftain of the Beni Dan, 
Achiezer bar Ammi-Shaddai. And his host, and the 
numbered thereof, sixty and two thousand and seven 
hundred. And those who encamp by him shall be the 
tribe of Asher; and the chieftain of the Beni Asher, 
Phagiel bar Akran, And his host, and the numbered 
of it, forty and one thousand and five hundred. And 
the tribe of Naphtali, and the chief of the Beni Naph- 
tali, Achira bar Enan: and his host, and the numbered 
thereof, fifty and three thousand and four hundred. 
All who were numbered of the camp of Dan, a hundred 
and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred: they 
shall go hindmost by their standards. 


rrr. | ON NUMBERS. 247 


These are they who were numbered of the sons of 
Israel, by the house of their fathers; all who were 
numbered in the camps by their hosts, six hundred 
and three thousand five hundred and fifty. But the 
Levites were not numbered among the sons of Israel, 
as the Lord commanded Mosheh. And the sons of 
Israel did according to all which the Lord commanded 
Mosheh: so did they encamp by their standards, and 
so went they forward every man by his family, and by 
the house of his fathers. 

III. And these are the generations of Aharon and 
Mosheh in the day that the Lord spake with Mosheh 
in the mountain of Sinai. And these are the names 
of the sons of Aharon. His firstborn, Nadab; and 
Abihu, Elazar, and Ithamar. These are the names of 
the sons of Aharon, the priests, who were consecrated 
that their oblations might be offered, (and that they 
might) minister. But Nadab and Abihu died before 
the Lord ; in their offering the strange fire before the 
Lord in the wilderness of Sinai: and they had uno 
children. And 18282 and Ithamar ministered before 
Aharon their father. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Bring the 
tribe of Levi near, and appoint them before Aharon the 
priest, that they may minister with him. And they 
shall keep the watch and the charge of all the congre- 
gation by the tabernacle of ordinance to perform the ser- 
vice of the tabernacle. And they shall keep all the ves- 
sels of the tabernacle of ordinance, and the charge of the 
sons of Israel to perform the service of the tabernacle. 
And thou shalt give the Levites unto Aharon, and to 
his sons; they are delivered and given to him from the 
sons of Israel. And thou shalt appoint Aharon and 
his sons, that they may keep their priesthood ; but the 
stranger who cometh near shall be put to death. 


248 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: And I, 
behold, I have brought near the Levites from among 
the sons of Israel instead of every firstborn that openeth 
the womb of the sons of Israel; and the Levites shall 
minister before Me. For every firstborn is Mine; on 
the day that I slew every firstborn in the land of Miz- 
raim, I sanctified before Me every firstborn in Israel 
from man to animal; they are Mine: I am the Lord. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh in the wilderness 
of Sinai, saying: Number the sons of Levi, after the 
house of their fathers, by their families; every male 
from a month old and upward shalt thou number them. 
And Mosheh numbered them according to the word of 
the Lord, as he had been commanded. 

And these were the sons of Levi by their ames: 
Gershon and Kehath and Merari. And these are the 
names of the Beni Gershon after their families: Lebni 
and Shemei. And the Beni Kehath after their families : 
Amram and Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel. And the Beni 
Merari by their families, Mahaliand Mushi; these are the 
families of the Levites after the house of their fathers. 

Of Gershon were the family of Libni and the family 
of Shemei; these are the families of Gershon. Those 
that were numbered of them, every male from the son 
of a month and upward, the number of them was seven 
thousand and five hundred. The families of Gershon 
shall encamp behind the tabernacle, westward: and the 
Rab of the house of the fathers of Gershon, Eljasaph 
bar Lael. And the charge of the Beni Gershon in the 
tabernacle of ordinance (shall be) the tent and its 
covering, and the hanging of the door of the tabernacle 
of ordinance; and the curtains of the court, and the 
hanging of the gate of the court which is by the taber- 
nacle, and by the altar round about, and the cords of it, 
for all its service. 


ON NUMBERS. 249‏ [,זע 


And of Kehath was the family of Amram, and the 
family of Izhar, and the family of Hebron, and the 
family of Uzziel: these are the families of Kehath. 
According to the number of all the males, from the son 
of a month and upward, eight thousand and six hundred, 
keeping the charge of the sanctuary. The families of 
the Beni Kehath shall encamp by the side of the taber- 
nacle, southward. And the Rab of the house of the 
fathers of the Kehath families (shall be) Elizaphan bar 
Uzziel. And their charge shall be the ark, and the ta- 
ble, and the candelabrum, and the altar, and the vessels 
of the sanctuary with which they minister, and the tent, 
(or hanging, Sam. Vers., “ covering,”’) and all (that per- 
taineth to) the service thereof. And the chief (armarkella) 
who is appointed over the chiefs (rabbins) of the Levites 
is Elazar bar Aharon the priest: under his hand shall 
they be appointed who have the charge of the keeping 
of the sanctuary. 

Of Merari, the families of Mahli and the families of 
Mushi. And the numbers of them, according to the 
numbers of all the males, from the son of a month and 
upwards, six thousand and two hundred. And the Rab 
of the house of the fathers of the Merari families, Zuriel 
bar Abichael; and they shall encamp on the side of the 
tabernacle northward. And the charge 5 for the custody 
of the sons of Merari shall be the boards of the tabernacle, 
and its bars, and its pillars, and its sockets, and all its 
vessels, and whatever (pertaineth) to its service; and 
the pillars of the court round about, and their sockets, 
their pins, and their cords. But they who encamp 
before the tabernacle eastward, even before the taber- 
nacle of ordinance toward the sunrise, shall be Mosheb, 
and Aharon and his sons, keeping charge of the 
sanctuary, to watch over the children of Israel; and 


3 Sam. Vers., “‘ business.” 
2 


oo ₪ 


250 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


the stranger who cometh near shall be put to death. 
All who were numbered of the Levites whom Mosheh 
and Aharon numbered by the word of the Lord, by 
their families, every male, from the son of a month and 
upward, twenty and two thousand.* 

> And the Lord spake unto Mosheh, Number all the 
firstborn males of the children of Israel, from the son of 
a month upward, and the number of their names. 
And thou shalt take the Levites before me,—I am the 
Lord,—instead of all the firstborn of the sons of Israel ; 
and the cattle of the Levites instead of all the firstlings 
of the cattle of the Beni Israel. And Mosheh num- 
bered, as the Lord commanded him, all the firstborn of 
the sons of Israel. And all the firstborn males, by the 
number of their names, from the son of a month and 
upward by their numbers, were twenty and two thou- 
sand two hundred and seventy and three. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Take the 
Levites instead of all the firstborn of the Beni Israel, 
and the cattle of the Levites instead of their cattle; and 
the Levites shall minister before Me: I am the Lord. 
And of the redeemed ones of the two hundred and 
seventy and three of the sons of Israel who are more 
than the Levites, thou shalt take of each five shekels, 
by poll, in the shekel of the sanctuary shalt thou take; 
twenty mahin are a shekel. And thou shalt give the 
silver of the redeemed who exceed them to Aharon and 
his sons. And Mosheh took the silver of the redeemed 
who were more than the redeemed by the Levites. Of 
the firstborn of the Beni Israel he took the silver, a 
thousand and three hundred and sixty-five shekels, in 


“On the difficulties connected with these numbers, see " Bishop 
Colenso’s Objections to the Pentateuch, examined by Dr. ABRanay 
Beniscu.” London. 1868. Also “An Examination of Bishop Colenso’s 
Difficulties,” by the late Dr, M‘Caun. London. 1864. 


1v.] ON NUMBERS. 251 


the shekel of the sanctuary. And Mosheh gave the 
silver of the redeemed ones to Aharon and to his sons, 
by the Word of the Lord, as the Lord had commanded 
Mosheh. 

IV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh and with 
Aharon, saying: Take the reckoning of the Beni Kehath 
from among the sons of Levi by the house of their 
fathers, from thirty years and upward, unto fifty years; 
all that come to the host, to do the work of the taber- 
nacle of ordinance. And this (shall be) the service of 
the Beni Kehath in the tabernacle of ordinance,—the 
Holy of 1101168. And Aharon and his sons shall enter 
in, what time the camp is to proceed; and they shall 
unloose the veil that is hung, and cover therewith the ark 
of the testimony, and put over it a covering of hyacin- 
thine skins, and overspread it with a wrapper, wholly 
purple, having inset its staves. And upon the table of 
the presence bread they shall spread a wrapper of purple, 
and on it put the bowls and mortars, and the measures 
and cups for libations, and the bread that is ever on it ; 
and overspread it with a wrapper of scarlet, and cover it 
with a covering of hyacinth skins, having inset. its 
staves. And they shall take a purple wrapper, and 
cover the candelabrum of the light, and its lamps, and 
its tongs, and its snuff dishes, and all the vessels of the 
service by which they serve it; and put it and all its 
vessels into a covering of hyacinthine skins, and set it 
upon a bar. And upon the golden altar they shall 
spread a purple wrapper, and cover it with a cover ns 
of hyacinth skins, and fix its staves. And they shall 
take all the vessels of the ministry with which they 
minister in the sanctuary, and put them in a cloth of 
purple, and cover them with a covering of hyacinth 
skins, and set them upon bars. 

And they shall collect the cinders from the altar, and 


252 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


spread upon it a wrapper of crimson, and put thereon 
all its vessels by which they minister upon it; censers, 
fleshhooks, shovels, and basins; all the vessels of the 
altar; and spread over it a covering of hyacinthine 
skins, and inset its staves. And when Aharon and his 
sons have completed to cover up the sanctuary, and all 
the vessels of the sanctuary in the moving of the camp, 
the sons of Kehath shall go im to carry (them), but they 
shall not touch the holy things (themselves), lest they 
die; but these are the burden of the sons of Kehath in 
the tabernacle of ordinance. 

And that delivered unto Elazar bar Aharon the priest 
(shall be) the oil for the light, and the aromatic incense, 
and the continual mincha, and the anointing oil, (with) 
the charge of all the tabernacle, and whatever be- 
longeth to the sanctuary and its vessels. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh and with Aharon, 
saying: Cut not off the tribe of the family of Kehath 
from among the Levites;® but do this to them, that 
they may live and not die, in their approach to the 
Holy of Holies: Let Aharon and his sons go in, and 
appoint each man his service and his burden. But they 
shall not go in to see, when the vessels of the sanctuary 
are covered, lest they die. 


SECTION XXXYV. 
NASO, 


the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Take the‏ פאה 
account of the sons of Gershon also, after the house of‏ 
their fathers, by their families; from thirty years and‏ 
upwards to fifty years shalt thou number them, of all‏ 


5 Do not occasion their death. 


Iv.] ON NUMBERS. 253 


who come by companies to perform service in the taber- 
nacle of ordinance. This is the service of the family of 
Gershon, to serve and to carry. And they shall carry 
the curtains of the tabernacle, and the tent of the taber- 
nacle of ordinance, its covering, and the covering of 
hyacinth which is over it above, and the hanging for the 
door of the tabernacle of ordinance; and the curtains 
of the court, and the hanging that is at the entrance of 
the court, which is by the tabernacle and by the altar 
round about, and their cords, and all the instruments of 
their service ; and with all that is delivered to them they 
shall perform their service. By the word of Aharon 
and his sons shall be all the service of the Beni-Gershon, 
with all their burdens, and all their employment; and 
you shall appoint them in charge with all their burdens. 
This is the service of the family of the Beni-Gershon in 
the tabernacle of ordinance, and their charge shall be 
under the hand of Ithamar bar Aharon the priest. 

The sons of Merari number thou after the families of 
their father’s house; from a son of thirty years and 
upward unto fifty years, shalt thou number ,them, of 
all who come by companies to perform the service of the 
tabernacle of ordinance. And this is the charge of 
their burthen of all the service in the tabernacle of 
ordinance; the boards of the tabernacle, and its bars, 
and its pillars, and their bases; and the columns of 
the court round about, their bases, pins, and cords of all 
the instruments of all their service ; and by their names 
you shall number the instruments of the charge of their 
burthen. This is the ministry of the family of the Beni- 
Merari, after all their service in the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance under the hand of Ithamar bar Aharon the priest. 

And Mosheh and Aharon and the chiefs of the 
congregation numbered the sons of Kehath, by their 
families, and by the house of their fathers; from a son 


254 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


of thirty years and upward to fifty years; every one 
who came with the band to the service in the tabernacle 
of ordinance. And they who were numbered of them 
by their families, were two thousand seven hundred and 
fifty. These are the numbered of the family of Kehath, 
every one serving in the tabernacle of ordinance, whom 
Mosheh and Aharon numbered upon the Word of the 
Lord, by the hand of Mosheh. 

And the numbered of the sons of Gershon after the 
families of their father’s house, from thirty years and 
upwards to fifty years, every one who cometh with the 
band to the service of the tabernacle of ordinance, even 
those who were numbered of them by their families of 
their father’s house, were two thousand six hundred 
and thirty. These are the numbered of the Beni- 
Gershon, every one who did service in the tabernacle of 
ordinance, whom Mosheh and Aharon numbered by the 
mouth of the Word of the Lord. 

And the numbered of the Beni-Merari, by the families 
of their father’s house, from thirty years and upward to 
fifty years, all who come by bands to serve in the taber- 
nacle of ordinance, even they who were numbered by 
their families, were three thousand and two hundred. 
These are they who were numbered in the families of 
the Beni-Merari, whom Mosheh and Aharon numbered 
by the mouth of the Word of the Lord, by the hand of 
Mosheh. All the numbered ones of the Levites whom 
Mosheh and Aharon and the chiefs of Israel numbered, 
by their families, and by the house of their fathers, from 
thirty years and upward to fifty years, all who came to 
minister the ministry of the service, and the work of 
carrying in the tabernacle of ordinance, even the num- 
bered of them were eight thousand five hundred and 
eighty. Upon the Word of the Lord they were num- 
bered by the hand of Mosheh; every man according to 


v.] ON NUMBERS. 255 


his service and his burthen they were numbered, as the 
Lord commanded Mosheh. 

V. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying : Com- 
mand the sons of Israel to send away from the camp 
every one who is leprous, and every one who hath an 
issue, and every one who is defiled with the pollution of 
the life of man: from male to female you shall send 
them away, that they defile not their camps; for My 
Shekinah dwelleth among you. And the sons of Israel 
did so; as the Lord spake with Mosheh, so did the sons 
of Israel. 

Aud the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: When a 
man or a woman hath committed any of the sins of man- 
kind to prevaricate prevarication before the Lord, and 
that man hath become guilty; they sball make con- 
fession of the sin which they have committed, and 
restore the principal of (the property of) the trespass, 
and add a fifth part thereto, and give to him against 
whom the sin was committed; but if the man (hath 
deceased, or) hath no kinsman unto whom the trespass 
should be returned, let the trespass be restored before 
the Lord unto the priest, besides the ram of atonement 
which shall be offered to atone for him. And all 
separated things of all the consecrations of the sons of 
Israel which are offered by the priest are his. And the 
consecrated tenths of every man shall be his, and what- 
soever a man giveth unto the priest shall be his. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with the sons of Israel, and say to them: If a man’s 
wife go astray and prevaricate against him prevarica- 
tion, and a man lie with her, and it be hidden from her 
husband’s eyes, and she be contaminated, and there be 
no witness against her, and she be not convicted (or 
apprehended) ; but the spirit of jealousy come upon 
him, and he be jealous of his wife that she hath been 


256 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHAP. 


defiled; or the spirit of jealousy come upon him, and 
he become jealous of his wife, though she be not detiled ; 
then shall the man bring his wife to the priest, and 
bring her offering for her, a tenth part of three seins of 
barley flour; he shall pour no oil thereon, nor put 
frankincense upon it, because it is a mincha of jealousy, 
a mincha of remembrance, bringing sins to remem- 
brance. And the priest shall bring her near, and make 
her stand before the Lord. And the priest shall take 
water from the laver in an earthen vessel. And the 
priest shall take from the dust which is on the floor of 
the tabernacle, and put it into the water. And the 
priest shall make the woman stand before the Lord, and 
shall uncover the woman’s head, and put the mincha of 
remembrance, the mincha of jealousy, upon her hands ; 
and in the priest’s hand shall be the bitter waters of 
cursing.® 

And the priest shall adjure her, and say to the 
woman: If no man hath lain with thee, and if thou 
hast not gone astray to uncleanness (with another) 
instead of thy husband, be thou unhurt (zakaah, inno- 
cent, clean) from these bitter waters of cursing. But 
if thou hast gone astray (to another) instead of thy 
husband, and art defiled; and another man hath lain 
with thee, besides thy husband, the priest shall adjure 
the woman by the oath of the curse; and the priest 
shall say to the woman: The Lord set thee for a curse 
and an execration in the midst of thy people, by the 
Lord making thy thigh to be corrupt, and thy bowels 
to swell. And these waters of cursing shall enter thy 
inside, to make thy bowels to swell, and thy thigh to 
become corrupt. 

And the woman shall say, Amen, Amen! 

And the priest shall write these maledictions upon a 


6 Sam. Vers., “the waters of proof, or probation.” 


ON NUMBERS. 257‏ [.צצ 


book,” and shall wash them out with the bitter waters. 
And he shall make the woman to drink the bitter 
waters of cursing; and the waters of the curse shall 
enter into her unto bitterness. 

And the priest shall take from the woman’s hand the 
mincha of jealousy ; and wave the mincha before the 
Lord, and offer it upon the altar. And the priest shall 
take with a full hand from the mincha the memorial of 
it, and burn it upon the altar; ‘and afterward the 
woman shall drink the water. 

And when he hath made her drink the water, it shall 
be that if she hath been defiled and hath wrought per- 
verseness with her husband, the waters of the execration 
will enter into her with bitterness, and her bowels will 
swell, and her thigh become corrupt: and the woman 
shall be for an execration among her people. 

But if the woman hath not been defiled, but is inno- 
cent, they shall enter harmlessly, and she shall con- 
ceive with conception. 

This is the law of jealousy, when a woman hath gone 
astray from her husband, or when the spirit of jealousy 
passeth upon a man, and he become jealous of his wife. 
He shall make the wife stand before the Lord; and the 
priest shall do for him (according to) all this law. 
And the man shall be innocent from guilt,’ but the 
woman shall bear her sin. 

VI. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the children of Israel, and say to them: 
When a man or a woman would be separated by a vow 
of the Nazira, to be devoted before the Lord; he shall 
abstain from wine, (whetlier) new or old; vinegar of 
new wine or vinegar of old wine he may not drink; 
neither of anything expressed from grapes may he 


7 “Parchment,” Mishna. 
8 The husband will not be guilty, though the guilty wife may die 
from the effects of the water. 


258 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [ouap. 


drink; nor of grapes, either fresh or dried, may he eat. 
All the days of his nazirate he may not eat of aught 
that is produced by the vine (wine tree), from its ker- 
nels to its expressed juice. All the days of his nazir- 
vow a razor shall not pass upon his head; until the 
days be fulfilled which he should devote before the 
Lord, he shall be consecrate; he shall let the hair of 
his head grow all the days of his vow before the Lord; 
he shall come near no dead person: for his father or 
his mother, for his brother or his sister, should they 
die, he shall not make himself unclean; because the 
consecration? of Hloha is upon his head: all the days 
of his nazirhood shall he be consecrate before the Lord. 

And if any one with him die suddenly (to him) 
unawares, and he defile the head of his vow, let him 
shave his head on the day of his purificatiou, on the 
seventh day let him shave it: and on theeighth day 
let him bring two turtle-doves or two young pigeons 
unto the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of ordi. 
nance. And let the priest make one a sin offering, and 
one a burnt offering, to atone for him; for that he had 
sinned by the dead; and let him consecrate his head. 
(anew) on that day. And he shall devote before the 
Lord the days of his nazirhood, and bring a lamb of 
the year for a trespass offering: but the former days 
have been in vain, because he hath defiled his vow. 

And this is the law of the Nazirite ou the day that 
the days of his vow are fulfilled. He shall be brought 
to the door of the tabernacle of ordinance; and shall 
present his oblation before the Lord, a lamb of the 
year, one unblemished, for a burnt offering, and one ewe 
lamb of the year, unblemished, for a sin offering; and 


, 
one ram unblemished for a consecrated oblation; and 


5 Or, “the crown.” So also the Sam. Vers. Peschito, 260276, “ the 
diadem.” 


vi. | ON NUMBERS. 259 


a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of flour mingled 
with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, their 
minchas and their libations. Aud the priest shall pre- 
sent them before the Lord; and make the sin offering 
and the burnt offering, and the ram he shall make a 
consecrated oblation before the Lord with the basket 
of unleavened cakes; and the priest shall make the 
mincha, and the libation therewith. 

And let the Nazirite, at the door of the tabernacle of 
ordinance, shave his consecrated head; and take the 
hair of his consecrated head and lay it upon the fire 
which is under the cauldron, for the peace offerings. 
And the priest shall take the boiled shoulder of the 
ram, and one of the unleavened cakes from the basket, 
and one unleavened wafer, and put (them) upon the 
hands of the Nazirite after the shaving of bis consecra- 
tion. And the priest shall uplift them, an elevation 
before the Lord. It shall be dedicated to the priest, 
with the breast of the elevation, and the shoulder of the 
separation ; and after that the Nazirite may drink wine. 

This is the law of the Nazirite, who hath vowed his 
oblation before the Lord, for his consecration, besides 
those which may come to his hand; according to the 
vow which he hath vowed, so shall he do according to 
the law of his consecration. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with Aharon and with his sons, saying: Thus shall you 
bless the children of Israel, and shall say unto them: 

The Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make 
His Shekinah to shine upon thee, and be merciful to 
thee. The Lord turn away His displeasure from thee, 
and bestow upon thee peace.’ 

And they shall bestow the benediction of My Name 
upon the sons of Israel, and I will bless them. 


1 Glossary, page 74. 


260 TARGUM OF ONKELUS [cHAP. 


VIL. And it was on the day when Mosheh had com- 
pleted to set up the tabernacle, and to anoint it, and to 
consecrate it, and all its vessels, and had anointed and 
sanctified them, that the princes of Israel, heads of the 
house of their fathers, the chiefs of the tribes, who had 
been appointed over them who were numbered, came 
near, and brought their oblations before the Lord. 
Six covered waggons and twelve oxen; a waggon for 
two of the princes, and an ox for each one: and they 
brought them before the tabernacle. 

And the Lord spake to Mosheh, saying: Take (the 
waggons) from them, that they may be for the work of the 
service of the tabernacle of ordinance ; and thou shalt give 
them to the Levites, to each man according to the need of 
his work.? And Mosheh took the waggons and the oxen, 
and gave them to the Levites. Two waggons and four 
oxen gave he to the sons of Gershon, according to the 
need of their work ; and four waggons and eight oxen 
he gave to the sons of Merari, according to the need of 
their work, by the hand of Ithamar bar Aharon the 
priest. But to the sons of Kehath he gave not, because 
they had the work of the sanctuary, and carried upon 
their shoulders. 

And the princes offered at the dedication (chanucha) 
of the altar on the day that they anointed it, and the 
princes presented their oblations before the altar. And 
the Lord said to Mosheh, One prince shall offer, on each 
day of the dedication of the altar. 

And he who offered his oblation on the first day was 
Nachshon bar Aminadab, of the tribe of Jehudah. And 
his offering was, one bowl of silver, a hundred and 
thirty shekels was its weight; one silver vase, seventy 
shekels in weight, in shekels of the sanctuary; both of 


? Contrast with the recent discovery of the “higher” critics, that 
the priest had to carry the carcase 01 an ox upon his own back. 


ON NUMBERS. 261‏ [,צנץ 


them filled with flour, mingled with oil, for a mincha; 
one pan (censer) weighing ten shekels; it was of gold, 
filled with fragrant incense; one young bullock, one ram, 
one lamb of the year for a bart offering ; one kid of the 
goats for a sin offering; and for consecrated oblations, 
two oxen, five rams, five goats, five lambs of the year. 
This was the oblation of Nachshon bar Aminadab. 

On the second day offered Nethanel bar Zuar, prince 
of the tribe of Issakar. He offered his oblation,—one 
silver bowl, a hundred and thirty shekels was its weight ; 
one silver vase, its weight seventy shekels, in the shekels 
of the sanctuary ; both of them filled with flour sprinkled 
with oil fora mincha; one pan weighing ten shekels; 
it was of gold, full of fragrant incense; one young 
bullock, one ram, one lamb of the year for a burnt 
offering, one kid of the goats for a sin offering; and 
for a sacrifice of consecrated things, two oxen, five rams, 
five goats, five lambs of the year. This was the oblation 
of Nethanel bar Zuar. 

On the third day, the prince of the Beni Zebulon, 
Eliab bar Chelon. His offering, one silver bowl, its 
weight one hundred and thirty shekels ; one silver vase, 
its weight seventy shekels in the shekels of the sanc- 
tuary; both of them filled with flour mingled with oil 
for a mincha; one pan weighing ten shekels ; it was of 
gold, and filled with ב‎ incense ; one young bullock, 
one lamb of the year for a burnt oneting, one kid of the 
goats for a sin offering; and for 0 offerings, 
two oxen, five rams, five goats, five lambs of the year. 
This was the oblation of Eliab bar Chelon. 

On the fourth day the prince of the sons of Reuben, 
Elizur bar Shedeur. His offering, one silver bowl, one 
hundred and thirty shekels its weight, one silver vase, 
weighing seventy shekels in the shekels of the sanctuary, 
both of them filled with flour sprinkled with oil for a 


262 TARGUM OF ONKELOS (CHAP. 


mitcha’; one pan weighing ten shekels ; it was of gold, 
and filled with fragrant incense; one young bullock, 
one ram, one lamb of the year for a burnt offering, one 
kid of the goats for a sin offering; and for the conse- 
crated oblation, two oxen, five rams, five goats, five 
lambs of the year. This was the oblation of Elizur bar 
Shedeur. 

On the fifth day the prince of the Beni Shemeon, 
Shelumiel bar Zurishaddai. His offering, one silver 
bowl, one hundred and thirty shekels was its weight, 
one silver vase, weighing seventy shekels in the shekels 
of the sanctuary, both of them filled with flour mingled 
with oil for a mincha; one pan weighing ten shekels ; 
it was of gold, filled with fragrant incense; one young 
bullock, one ram, one lamb of the year for a burnt 
offering, one kid of the goats for a sin offering; and 
for consecrated oblations two oxen, five rams, five goats, 
five lambs of the year. This was the oblation of Shelu- 
miel bar Zurishaddai. 

On the sixth day the prince of the sons of Gad, 
Eljasaph bar Dehuel. His offering, one silver bowl, its 
weight one hundred and thirty shekels, one silver vase, 
weighing seventy shekels in shekels of the sanctuary, 
both filled with flour sprinkled with oil for a mincha; 
one pan weighing ten shekels of gold, full of fragrant 
incense ; one young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the 
year for a burnt offering, one kid of the goats for a sin 
offering ; and for consecrated oblations, two oxen, five 
rams, five goats, five lambs of the year. This was the 
oblation of Eljasaph bar Dehuel. 

On the seventh day the prince of the sons of Ephraim, 
Elishama bar Ammihud. His offering, one silver bowl 
weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, one silver 
vase weighing seventy shekels in shekels of the sanc- 
tuary, both of them filled with flour sprinkled with oil 


vu. | ON NUMBERS. 263 


for a mincha; one pan weighing ten shekels of gold, 
filled with fragrant incense; one young bullock, one 
ram, one lamb of the year, for a burnt offering; one kid 
of the goats for a sin offering; and for consecrated 
oblations, two oxen, five rams, five goats, five lambs of 
the year. This was the oblation of Elishama bar 
Ammihud. 

On the eighth day the prince of the Beni Menashe, 
Gamliel bar Phedazur. His offering, one silver bowl, 
weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, one silver vase, 
weighing seventy shekels in shekels of the sanctuary, 
both of them filled with flour sprinkled with oil for a 
mincha; one pan weighing ten shekels of gold, filled 
with fragrant incense; one young bullock, one ram, 
one lamb of the year, for a burnt offering; one kid of 
the goats for a sin offering; and for consecrated obla- 
tions, two oxen, five rams, five goats, five lambs of the 
year. ‘This was the oblation of Gamliel bar Phedazur. 

On the ninth day the prince of the sons of Benyamin, 
Abidan bar Gideoni. His oblation, one silver bowl, weigh- 
ing one hundred and thirty shekels, one silver vase, 
‘weighing seventy shekels in shekels of the sanctuary, 
both of them filled with flour sprinkled with oil for a 
mincha; one pan weighing ten shekels of gold, filled 
with fragrant incense; one young bullock, one ram, one 
lamb of the year, for a burnt offering; one kid of the 
goats for a sin offering ; and for consecrated oblations, 
two oxen, five rams, five goats, five lambs of the year. 
This was the oblation of Abidan bar Gideoni. 

On the tenth day the prince of the sons of Dan, 
Achiezer bar Amishaddai. His oblation, one silver bowl, 
weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, one silver 
vase, weighing seventy shekels in shekels of the sanc- 
tuary, both of them filled with flour sprinkled with oil 
for a mincha; one pan weighing ten shekels of gold, 


264 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cuaP. 


filled with fragrant incense; one young bullock, one 
ram, one lamb of the year, for a burnt offering; one 
kid of the goats for a sin offering; and for consecrated 
oblations, two oxen, five rams, five goats, five lambs of 
the year. This was the oblation of Achiezer bar Ami- 
shaddai. 

On the eleventh day the prince of the Beni Asher, 
Phagiel bar Akran. His oblation, one silver bowl, 
weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, one silver 
vase, weighing seventy shekels in shekels of the sanc- 
tuary, both of them filled with flour sprinkled with oil 
for a mincha; one pan weighing ten shekels of gold, 
filled with fragrant incense; one young bullock, one 
ram, one lamb of the year, for a burnt offering; one kid 
of the goats for a sin offering; and for consecrated 
oblations two oxen, five rams, five goats, five lambs of the 
year. This was the oblation of Phagiel bar Akran. 

On the twelfth day, the prince of the Beni Naphtali, 
Achira bar Enan. His oblation, one silver bow], weigh- 
ing one hundred and thirty shekels, one silver vase, 
weighing seventy shekels in shekels of the sanctuary, 
both of them filled with four sprinkled with oil 
for a mincha; one pan weighing ten shekels of gold, 
filled with fragrant incense; one young bullock, one 
ram, one lamb of the vear, for a burnt otfering; one kid 
of the goats for a sin offering; and for consecrated 
oblations two oxen, five rams, five goats, five lambs of 
the year. This was the oblation of Achira bar Enan. 

This was the dedication of the altar, on the day that 
they anointed it. By the princes of Israel (were offered) 
twelve silver bowls, twelve silver vases, twelve golden 
censers ; one hundred and thirty shekels was the weight 
of one silver bow], and seventy that of one silver vase; 
all the silver vessels weighed two thousand four hundred 
shekels in shekels of the sanctuary. The golden censers 


VIII. ] ON NUMBERS. 265 


were twelve, full of fragrant incense, weighing each ten 
shekels; the weight of the censers was, in shekels of 
the sanctuary, all the gold of the censers one hundred 
and twenty (shekels). All the bullocks for the burnt 
offering were twelve bullocks, rams twelve, lambs of the 
year twelve, and their minchas. And for the sin offering 
twelve kids of the goats. And all the oxen for conse- 
crated victims were twenty-four oxen, rams sixty, goats 
sixty, lambs of the vear sixty. This was the Dedication 
of the Altar after they had anointed it. 

And when Mosheh had gone into the tabernacle of 
ordinance to speak with Him, then heard he the Voice 
of Him who spake with him from above the Mercy Seat 
over the Ark of the Testimony, between the two Kerubaia ; 
and He spake unto him. 


SECTION XNXVI. 
BEHAALOTHECA. 


VIII. Anp the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with Aharon, and say to him: When thou dost 
kindle the lamps upon the face of the candelabrum, the 
seven lamps shall be burning (together). And Aharon 
did so: on the face of the candelabrum he made the 
lamps burn, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. And 
this work of the candelabrum was of beaten gold, from 
its shaft to its lilies, beaten (gold) according to the 
pattern which the Lord had suowed to Mosheh, so had 
he made the candelabrum. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Bring 
near the Levites from among the sons of Israel, and 
purify them. And thus shalt thou do to them to purify 

N 


266 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cuap. 


them. Sprinkle upon them the water of purification, 
and make the razor to pass over all their flesh, and let 
them wash their vestments, and they shall be clean. 
And let them take a young bullock, and his mincha of 
fisur, sprinkled with oil; and a second bullock, a 
young bullock shalt thou take, for the sin offering. 
And bring the Levites before the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance, and assemble all the congregation of the children 
of Israel. 

And thou shalt bring the Levites before the Lord ; 
and the sons of Israel shall lay their hands upon the 
Levites; and Abaron shall offer the Levites? as an 
elevation before the Lord from the sons of Israel, 
that they may perform the service of the Lord. And 
the Levites shall lay their hands upon the head of the 
bullocks, and make the one for a sin offering, and the 
other for a burnt offering, before the Lord, to make an 
atonement for the Levites. And thou shalt set the 
Levites before Aharon, and before his sons, and offer 
them up (as) an elevation before the Lord. And thou 
shalt thus separate the Levites from among the sons of 
Israel, that the Levites may minister before Me. And 
afterward shall the Levites enter, to minister (in) the 
tabernacle of ordinance; for thou wilt have purified 
them, and offered them up as an elevation. For bya 
separation are they separated unto Me from among the 
sons of Israel, instead of every firstborn who openeth the 
womb of all the children of Israel have 1 taken them 
‘to be) before Me. Tor Mine are all the firstborn of 
the children of Israel, of man and of beast: in the day 
that 1 slew all the firstborn in the land of Mizraim did 
I sanctify them before Me. And I have taken the 
Levites instead of all the firstborn of the sons of Israel. 


+ Literally, “shall elevate an clevation.” The elevation not always 
one bodily. \ 


ON NUMBERS. 267‏ [. צנ 


And the Levites I have given as a gift4 unto Aharon 
and: to his sons, from among the sons of Israel, to 
minister the service for the children of Israel in the 
tabernacle of ordinance, and to make atonement for the 
children of Israel, that death may not be among the 
children of Israel when the children of Israel come nigh 
to the sanctuary. 

And Mosheh and Aharon, and all the congregation of 
the sons of Israel, did unto the Levites according to all 
that the Lord commanded Mosheh for the Levites; so 
did the sons of Israel to them. And the Levites were 
purified, and they cleansed their raiment, and Aharon 
offered them (as) an elevation before the Lord; and 
Aharon made an atonement for them to purify them. 
And afterwards the Levites went in to perform their 
service in the tabernacle of ordinance before Aharon 
and before his sons; as the Lord had commanded 
> Mosheh concerning the Levites, so did they unto them. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: This is 
(the law) of the Levites: from a son of five-and-twenty 
years and upward he shall come with the bands in their 
service (in the) tabernacle of ordinance, and from fifty 
years old he shall return from the company of the 
ministers, and work no longer; but minister with his 
brethren at the tabernacle of ordinance in keeping the 
custody; yet the service he shall not perform: so shalt 
thou do with the Levites in their charge. 

IX. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, in the wilder- 
derness of Sinai, in the second year of their going forth 
from the land of Mizraim, in the first month, saying: 
Let the children of Israel perform the Pascha in its 
time. On the fourteenth day of this month, between 
the suns, they shall perform it in its time according to 
all the rites of it, and according to all the form of it 


+ Lit., ‘delivered ones: those made over.” Heb., Methinim. 
~ 9. 


268 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


shall they do 16. And Moshch spake with the sons of 
Israel to perform the Pascha. And they performed the 
Pascha in Nisan, on the fourteenth day of the month, 
between the suns, in the wilderness of Sinai; according 
to all that the Lord had commanded Mosheh, so did tne 
children of Israel. 

But there were men who were unclean by defilement,- 
(having touched) the body of a (dead) man, and they 
could not make the Pascha on that day; and they came 
before Mosheh and before Aharon that day, and the 
men said to him: We are unclean, by the defilement of 
the life of a man, and are, therefore, restrained from 
olering the oblation of the Lord in its ime among the 
sons of Israel. And Mosheh said to then, Wait, till I 
shall have heard what will be commanced from before 
the Lord about your case. And the Lord spake with 
Mosheh, saying: Speak with the sons oi Israel, saying: 
If any man be unclean by the defilement of the life of a 
man, or be in the way, afar 011 from you or from your 
dwellings, he shall perform the Pascha before the Lord 
in the second month,® on the fourteenth day, between the 
suns, they shall perform it; with unleavened (bread) and 
with bitter (herbs) shall they eat it: they shall not 
leave of it till the morning, and a bone of it shall not 
be broken; according to all the rites of the Pascha shall 
they perform it. But the man who is clean, and is not 
upon a journey, aud forbeareth to perform the Pascha, 
that man shall be cut off from his people: because he 
nath not offered the Lord’s oblation in its time, that 
inan shail bear his guilt. And if a stranger sojourn 
vith you, and will perform the Pascha before the Lord, 
uccording to the rites of the Pascha, and according to 
the forms thereof, so shall he do: one statute shall you 
nave, for the stranger, and for the native of the land. 


5 The regular time was the first mouth. 


nel ON NUMBERS. 269 


And on the day that the Tabernacle was erected the 
Cloud covered the Tabernacle of the Testimony; and at 
evening there was upon the Tabernacle as the vision of 
Fire, until the morning. So was it continually; the 
Cloud covered it (by day), and the appearance of the Fire 
in the night. And according as the Cloud was uplifted 
above the Tabernacle, the sons of Israel afterward went 
on; and at the place where the Cloud rested, there did 
the sons of Israel encamp. By the Word of the Lord 
the sons of Israel journeyed, and by the Word of the 
Lord they encamped; all the days that the Cloud rested, 
they remained. However long the time the Cloud was 
upon the Tabernacle, (however) many the days, the sons 
of Israel kept the watch of the Word of the Lord, and 
journeyed not. And if the Cloud was over the Tabernacle 
a number of days, according to the Word of the Lord 
they remained, and by the Word of the Lord they went 
forward, Or if the Cloud was (over the Tabernacle only) 
from the evening till the morn, and the Cloud was up- 
lifted in the morning, they went forward; whether (in 
the) days or nights the Cloud was uplifted, they went for- 
ward; whether it was two days, or a month, or a longer 
season, (time by time,) the Cloud was in staying upon 
the Tabernacle to remain thereon, the children of Israel 
remained, and went not forward; but at the lifting up 
of it they proceeded. By the Word of the Lord they 
abode, and by the Word of the Lord they proceeded ; 
they observed the watch of the Word of the Lord, upon 
the Word of the Lord through Mosheh. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Make‏ יר 
thee two trumpets of silver, beaten shalt thou make‏ 
them, and they shall be for thee to convoke the‏ 
assembly, and to move forward the host. And they‏ 
shall blow with them, and bring all the congregation‏ 
together unto thee, at the door of the tabernacle of‏ 


270 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


ordinance. And if they blow with but one, the chiefs, 
the heads of thousands of Israel, shall gather together 
to thee. When you blow with a full note, (or alarm,) 
the host that encampeth eastward shall go forward, 
and when you blow with the second alarm, the hosts 
that encamp southward shall go on; an alarm ® shall 
they blow for their journeys. But when the congrega- 
tion is to be gathered together, you shall blow, but not 
with the alarm. And the sons of Aharon, the priests, 
are to blow with the trumpets; and this shall be to you 
a perpetual statute for your generations. 

And when you enter upon the battle fight for your 
country, with the oppressors who oppress you, ye shall 
blow the alarm with the trumpets, that your remem- 
brance may come for good before the Lord your God, 
(and) that you may be delivered from them who hate 
you. 

And on the day of your rejoicing, and on your 
solemnities, and at the beginning of your months, ye 
shall blow with the trumpets over your burnt offerings, 
and over your consecrated victims; and they shall be 
for a memorial before your God: Iam the Lord your 
God. 

And it was in the second year, in the second month, 
on the twentieth day of the month, that the Cloud was 
uplifted from above the Tabernacle of the Testimony, 
and the children of Israel went forward upon their 
journeys from the wilderness of Sinai; and the Cloud 
rested in the wilderness of Pharan. And they went 
forward at the first by the Word of the Lord through 
Mosheh. In the first place the standard of the camp of 
the Beni Jehudah went forward by their hosts; and 
over the host was Nachshon bar Aminadab. And 
over the host of the tribe of the Beni Issakar, Nethanel 


6 Trumpet notes: Tekeha, Sherorim, Teruha. 


x.] ON NUMBERS. 271 


bar Zuar. And over the host of the tribe of the Beni 
Zebulun, Eliab bar Chelon. 

And the tabernacle was taken down, and the sons of 
Gershon went forward, and the sons of Merari, carrying 
the tabernacle. 

And the standard (or order) of the camp of Reuben 
went forward by their hosts, and over its host was 
Elizur bar Shedeur: and over the host of the tribe of the 
Beni Shemeun was Shelumiel bar Zurishaddai. And 
over the host of the Beni Gad was Eljasaph bar Dehuel. 
And the sons of Kebath went forward, carrying the 
sanctuary, and (the Gershonites and sons of Merari) set 
up the tabernacle against they came. 

And the standard of the camps of the Beni Ephraim 
went forward by their hosts, and over his host was 
Elishama bar Amihud. And over the host of the 
tribe of the Beni \lenasheh was Gamliel bar Phedazur. 
And over the host of the tribe of the Beni Benyamin, 
Abidan bar Gideoni. 

And the standard of the camps of the Beni Dan 
went forward collecting each camp according to their 
hosts; and over his host was Achiezer bar Amishaddai. 
And over the host of the tribe of the Beni Asher, 
Phagiel bar Akran; and over the host of the tribe of 
the Beni Naphtali, Achira bar Enan. These are the 
journers of the sons of Israel, and according to their 
hosts they went forward. 

And Mosheh said unto Hobab bar Reuel, the Midian- 
ite, the father-in-law of Mosheh, We are journeying to 
the place of which the Lord hath said, I will give it 
unto you: come thou with us, and we will do thee 
good; for the Lord hath spoken, to bring good upon 
Israel. But he said to him, I will not 50 (with you), 
but to my country and to my kindred will 1 go. And 
he said, Leave us not, 1 beseech thee; for thou knowest 


272 TARGUM OF ONKELOS (cap. 


how we should encamp in the wilderness; and the 
great things that will be done for us thou wilt see with 
thine eyes. And it shall be that if thou wilt go with 
us, with the good by which the Lord shall do us good, 
will we do good to thee. 

And from the mountain on which the glory of the 
Lord had been revealed they went forward, journeying 
three days; and the ark of the Lord’s covenant went 
before them, three days’ journey, to provide for them 
a place of encampment. And the Cloud of Glory of 
the Lord overspread them by day as they went forth 
from their encampments. And when the ark went for- 
ward, Mosheh said: Reveal thyself, O Lord, that Thine 
enemies may be scattered, and Thy adversaries may flee 
before thee. And when it rested, he said: Return, O 
Lord, and dwell in Thy glory among the multitudes of 
the thousands of Israel. 

XT. But the people were discontented (or, were 
fomenting evil) before the Lord; and it was heard 
before the Lord, and His anger was strongly moved, and 
a fire was kindled against them from before the Lord, 
and it consumed the outskirts of the camp. And the 
people cried unto Mosheh, and Mosheh prayed before 
the Lord, and the fire was subdued. And Mosheh 
called the name of that place Enkindlement ; because 
the fire had been kindled against them from before the 
Lord. 

And the mixed multitude who were among them 
demanded with demand; and the children of Israel also 
turned, and wept, and said: Who will feed us with 
flesh? We remember the fish which we ate in Mizraim 
freely, the cucumbers and melons, the cresses and onions 
and garlick. But now our soul longeth, yet there is 
nothing before our eyes but manna. Now the manna 
was like the seed of coriander, and its appearance as 


x1.] ON NUMBERS. 273 


the appearance of bedilcha. And the people went about 
and gathered; and he who would ground it in mills, or 
he who would beat it in the mortar, and they dressed it 
in the pan, and made cakes of it, and its taste was like 
the taste of a confection of oil. And when the dew 
came down upon the camp at night, the manna de- 
scended upon it. 

And Mosheh heard the: people lamenting with their 
families, a man at the door of his tent. And the dis- 
pleasure of the Lord grew very strong, as in the eyes of 
Moshel it was evil. And Mosheh said before the Lord, 
Wherefore hast Thou done painfully to Thy servant, and 
why have I not found mercy before Thee, that Thou hast 
put the burden of all this people upon me? Am I 
father to all this people, or are they my children, that 
Thou hast said to me, Carry them in thy strength, as the 
nurse carrieth the suckling, unto the land which Thou 
hast covenanted to their fathers? Whence shall I have 
flesh to give to all this people? for they lament to me, 
saying: Give us flesh to eat. Iam not able to bear all 
this people alone, because it is too heavy forme. And 
if Thou do thus with me, kill me, I pray, if 1 have found 
mercy before Thee, that I may not see my wretchedness. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Gather unto Me seventy 
men of the elders’ of Israel, whom thou knowest to be 
elders of the people, and the overseers® thereof, and 
bring them to the tabernacle of ordinance, aud let them 
stand there with thee; and I will reveal Myself, and will 
speak with thee there; and I will make enlargement ל‎ 
of the Spirit that is upon thee, and put it upon then, 
that they may bear with thee the burden of the people, 
and thou mayest not sustain it by thyself alone. And 

7 Sam. Vers., ‘the sages.” 5 Sam. Vers., ** scribes.” 

3 Heb. “I will take away of the Spirit.” LAX, .אש‎ Syr., “1 
will diminish from the Spirit.” 

v5 


4 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


say thou to the people, Prepare yourselves for the 
morrow, and you shall eat flesh; for that you have 
lamented before the Lord, saying: Who will give us flesh, 
that we may eat? for it was better with us in Mizraim ; 
and I will give you flesh, and you shall eat. Not one 
day shall you eat (it), nor two days, nor five days, nor 
ten days, nor twenty days; but for a month of days, 
until you loathe it, and it be an offence to you; 
because you have felt dislike to the Word of the Lord, 
whose Shekinah dwelleth among you; and before whom 
you have wept, saying: Why came we out of Mizraim ? 

But Mosheh said, The people among whom I am are 
six hundred thousand footmen; and Thou hast said, 1 
will give them flesh to eat fora month of days. Shall 
the oxen and sheep be slaughtered for them, to satisfy 
them, or all the fish of the sea be gathered that they 
may be satisfied? And the Lord said to Mosheh: Is 
the Word of the Lord restrained ? Now shalt thou see 
whether My saying come to pass with thee or not. 

And Mosheh went forth, and told the people the 
words of the Lord, and gathered together seventy men 
of the elders of the people, and set them round about 
the tabernacle. And the Lord was revealed in the 
Cloud, and spake with him, and he made enlargement 
of the Spirit that was upon him, and imparted to the 
seventy men, the elders; and it came to pass that when 
the Spirit of prophecy rested upon them they prophesied, 
and ceased not. But two men remained in the camp, 
the name of the one Eldad, and the name of the second 
Medad; and the Spirit of prophecy rested upon them ; 
and, though they were in the writings, they had not 
come out of the camp; but they prophesied in the 
camp. Anda young man ran, and showed to Mosheh, 
and said: Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp. 
And Jehoshua bar Nun, the minister of Mosheh from 


ON NUMBERS. 275‏ [.זנצ 


his youth, answered and said, Ribboni Mosheh, put 
them in bond. But Mosheh said, Art thou jealous 
for my sake?! 1 would that all the people of the Lord 
did prophesy, and that the Lord would confer the Spirit 
of prophecy upon them. And Mosheh returned to the 
camp, he and the elders of Israel. And the wind pro- 
ceeded from before the Lord, and the quails flew abroad 
from the sea, and it bare them upon the camp as (the 
breadth of) a day’s journey here, and a day’s journey 
there, round about the camp, and as at a height of two 
cubits over the face of the ground. And the people 
were up all that day, and all the night, and all the day 
after it, and collected the quails; he who collected least 
(gathered together) ten heaps; and they spread them 
abroad, round about tbe camp. 

While yet the flesh was between their teeth, and they 
had not yet finished, the displeasure of the Lord was 
manifested strongly against the people, and the Lord 
inflicted death among the people with a very great 
mortality. And he called the name of that place, The 
Graves of the Demanders ; 2 because there they buried 
the people who demanded. From the Graves of the 
Demanders the people journeyed to Hatseroth, and they 
were in Hatseroth. 

XII. And Miriam and Aharon spake against Mosheh, 
because of the fair woman ® whom he had taken, because 
the fair woman who had been sent away he had taken. 
And they said, Hath the Lord spoken only with 
Mosheh? Hath He not spoken with us also? And it 
was heard before the Lord. [But the man Mosheh 
was very humble,* more than all the men who were 

1“ Art thou jealous with my jealousy 2” 


2 Heb., Atbroth Hattaavah, “the Graves of Desire.” 
3 Ittha Shaphirtha. Heb., Ha-isha ha Kushith, “the woman the 


Ethiopian.” 
4 Or, ‘bent down.” Comp. verses 14, 15. 


276 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


upon the face of the earth.} And the Lord spake 
suddenly with Mosheh, and to Aharon and to Miriam : 
Come forth, you three, to the tabernacle of ordinance ; 
and those three went forth. And the Lord was revealed 
in the pillar of the Cloud, and stood at the door of the 
tabernacle: and He called Aharon and Miriam, and they 
two came forth. And He said, Hear now My words. 
If there be prophets with you, I the Lord will reveal 
Myself (to them) in visions, in dreams will I speak with 
them. But not so (with) My servant Mosheh; over all 
My house faithful is he. Speaker with speaker will I 
speak with him; in apparition, and not in similitudes ; 
and he shall behold the likeness of the glory of the 
Tord. And how is this, that you have not been afraid 
to speak against My servant, against Mosheh? And 
the displeasure of the Lord was strong against them, 
and He went up. And the Cloud went up from over 
the tabernacle. And, behold, Miriam was white as snow ; 
and Aharon looked upon Miriam, and, behold, she was 
leprous. And Aharon said to Mosheh, My lord, I 
eutreat that thou wouldst not lay this sin upon us, in 
that we have acted foolishly, and have transgressed. 
Let not this one, I entreat, be separated from among 
us, for she is our sister. Pray, now, over this dead flesh 
which is in her, that she may be healed. And Mosheh 
prayed before the Lord, saying: O God, I beseech Thee, 
heal her now. But the Lord said to Mosheh, If her 
father, correcting, had corrected her, ought she not to 
have been ashamed seven days? Let her be shut up 
_ seven days without the camp, and afterward be admitted. 
And Miriam was shut up without the camp seven days; 
and the people journeyed not until Miriam was brought 
in. And afterward the people journeyed from Hatse- 
roth, and encamped in the wilderness of Pharan. 


ON NUMBERS. 277‏ [.זזנצ 


SECTION XXXVII. 
SHELACH. 


111. פצג‎ the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Send thou men, that they may explore the land of 
Kenaan, which I will give to the children of Israel: one 
man for each tribe of their fathers shall you send, each 
one a ruler among them. And Mosheh sent them from 
the wilderness of Pharan, according to the Word of the 
Lord. All those men were heads of the children of 
Israel; and these are their names: For the tribe of 
Reuben, Shamua bar Zakur; for the tribe of Shemeon, 
Shaphat bar Hori; for the tribe of Jehudah, Kaleb bar 
Jephuneh; for the tribe of Issakar, Igal bar Joseph ; 
for the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea bar Nun; for the tribe 
of Benyamin, Phalti bar Raphu; for the tribe of Zebu- 
lon, Gediel bar Sodi; for the tribe of Joseph, the tribe 
of Menasheh, Gaddi bar Susi; for the tribe of Dan, 
Ammiel bar Gemali; for the tribe of Asher, Sethor bar 
Mikael; for the tribe of Naphtali, Nachbibar Vapsi ; for 
the tribe of Gad, Getiel bar Machi: These are the names 
of the men whom Mosheh sent to explore the land. 

And Mosheh called Hoshea bar Nun Jehoshua. And 
Mosheh sent them away to explore the land of Kenaan. 
And he said to them, Go up hither by the south, and 
ascend to the mountain, and see the country what it is, 
and the people who dwell upon it, whether they be 
strong or weak, few or many; and what the land is in 
which they dwell, whether good or bad; and what the 
cities they inhabit, whether open, or walled in; and 
whether the land is rich or poor; whether it hath trees 
or not: and you, be of good courage, and bring of the 


278 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CUAP. 


fruits of the land. And the days were the days of the 
first grapes. 

And they went up, and explored the country, from the 
wilderness of Zin unto Rechob, to come unto Hamath. 
And they went up by the south, and came to Hebron; 
aud there were Achiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, sons of 
the giants; (and Hebron was built seven years before 
Tanis of Mizraim.) And they came to the Stream of 
Grapes, and cut down there a branch, with one cluster 
of grapes, and carried it on a staff between two; and 
(they took also) of the pomegranates, and of the figs. 
That place was called the Stream of Grapes,® on account 
of the grapes (athkela) which the sons of Israel cut 
down from thence. And they returned from the explo- 
tation of the country at the end of forty days. 

And they went and came to Mosheh, and to Aharon, 
and to all the congregation of the children of Israel at 
the wilderness of Pharan,at Rekam,and returned the word 
to them, and to all the congregation, and showed them 
the fruit of the land. And they recounted to him, and 
said: Wecame to the land whither thou didst send us,and 
truly it doth produce milk and honey, and this is the 
fruit of it. But very mighty are the people who inhabit 
the land, and the cities are fortified and very great ; and 
we saw, also, the sons of the giants there. The Amalkaah 
dwell in the land of the south, and the Hittaah and 
Jebusaah and Amoraah dwell in the mountain, and the 
Kenaanaah dwell by the sea, and upon the bank of the 
Jordan. 

And Kaleb quieted the people for Mosheh, and said: 
Going, let us go up and possess it, for we are able to 
(do) it: but the men who had gone up with him said, 
We are not able to go up against the people, for they 
are stronger than we. And they gave forth an evil 

° Nachela de athkela. Heb., Nachal Eshkol. 


XIV. | ON NUMBERS. 279 


report (name) about the land which they had explored 
to the children of Israel, saying: The country which we 
have passed through to search it, is a land that killeth 
its inhabitants; and all the people whom we saw in it 
are men of stature; and there we saw the giants, the 
sons of Anak, which are of the giants; and we looked, 
in our own sight, as locusts, and so were we in their 
eves. 

ATV. And all the congregation lifted up and gave 
(forth) their voice; and all the people wept that night. 
And all the children of Israel murmured against 
Mosheh and Aharon; and the whole congregation said 
to them, O that we had died in the land of Mizraim, or 
that we had died in this wilderness! And why is the 
Lord bringing us to this land, that we may fall by the 
sword, and our wives and our children become a prey ? 
Would it not be better for us to return into Mizraim ? 
And they said, a man to his brother, Let us appoint a 
chieftain, and go back into Mizraim. 

And Mosheh and Aharon fell upon their faces before 
all the assembly of the sons of Israel. And Jehoshua 
bar Nun, and Kaleb bar Jephuneh, who were of the 
explorers of the land, rent their clothes. And they 
spake to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, 
saying: The land, which we passed through to explore 
it, is a good land, most exceedingly. If the Lord hath 
pleasure in us, even He will bring us into this land, and 
give us the land which produceth milk and honey. 
Only be not rebellious against the Word of the Lord, 
nor be afraid of the people of the land, for they are 
delivered into our hand; their strength is departed 
from them, and the Word of the Lord is our helper: 
fear them not. But all the congregation said that they 
would stone them with stones. 

And the Glory of the Lord was revealed at the 


280 TARGUM OF ONKEIOS [cuae. 


tabernacle of ordinance, unto all the children of Israel. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, How long will this 
people provoke Me, and how long will they disbelieve 
in My Word, for all the signs which I have wrought 
among them? I will smite them with the pestilence 
and consume them; and will make of thee a people 
greater and stronger than they. But Mosheh said 
before the Lord, And the Mizraee will hear of it ;— 
for Thou didst bring up by Thy power this people from 
among them, and they will tell unto the inhabitants of 
this land; for they have heard that Thou, O Lord, dost 
dwell in Thy Shekinah among this people, whose eyes 
behold the glorious Shekinah et the Lord, and that Thy 
Cloud overshadoweth them, and that in the pillar of the 
Cloud Thou conductest them in the day, and in the 
pillar of Fire by night. Nowif Thou shalt kill this 
people as one man, the nations who have heard the 
fame of Thy power will speak, saying: Because there 
was not strength (enough) before the Lord to bring 
this people into the land which He covenanted to them, 
He hath killed them in the desert. And now I beseech, 
let power be magnified from before the Lord, as Thou 
hast thus spoken, saying: The Lord is far from anger, 
and great in performing goodness and truth: forgiving 
iniquity and rebellion and sins, pardoning them who 
return unto His law: but acquitting not them who will 
not turn, (but) visiting the sins of the fathers upon the 
rebellious children unto the third and unto the fourth 
generation. Pardon, I beseech, the sins of this people 
according to the amplitude of Thy goodness, and as 
Thou hast forgiven® this people from Mizraim until 
now. 

And the Lord said, I have pardoned according to 
thy word. Yet, as I live, with the glory of the 

> Sam. Vers., ‘as thou hast borne this people.” 


ON NUMBERS. 281‏ [.אנצ 


Lord shall all the earth be filled. Because all these 
men who have seen My glory, and the signs I wrought 
in Mizraim and in the desert, but have tempted before 
Me these ten times, and have not been obedient to My 
Word,—if they shall see the land which I covenanted 
to their fathers, nor shall any see it who have provoked 
before Me. But My servant Kaleb, for that there was 
in him another spirit, and that be hath wholly fol- 
lowed (in) My fear, him will I bring into the land 
whither he went, and his children shall possess it.— 
Now the Amalkaah and the Kenaanaah dwelt in the 
valley.—To-morrow, turn you and get you to the wil- 
derness by the way of the Sea of Suph. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh and unto Aharon, 
saying: How long shall this evil congregation be mur- 
muring against Me? The murmuring of the sons of 
Israel which they murmur against Me is heard before 
Me. Say tothem, As I live, saith the Lord, even as ye 
have spoken before Me, so will I do to you. In this 
wilderness shall your carcases fall, and all who are 
numbered of you, of all your numbers, from one of 
twenty years and upward who have murmured against 

me—if you shall come into the land in lich I 
covenanted in My Word to cause you to dwell, except 
Kaleb bar Jephuneh, and Jehoshua bar Nun. But your 
children, of whom you said they were for a prey, will I 
bring in, and they shall know the land which you have 
abhorred. But your carcases shall fall in this wilder- 
ness; and your children shall go about in the wilder- 
ness forty years, and shall bear your iniquities until 
your carcases be laid in the wilderness. According to 
the number of the days in which you 6510260 the land, 
forty days, a day for a year, a day for a year, you shall 
receive for your sins, even forty years, and you shall 
know (the consequence of) your murmuring against 


282 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [ouap. 


me.” I, the Lord, have made the decree in My Word, 
—if I will not do unto all this evil congregation 
who have gathered together against Me; in this 
wilderness shall they find their end, and here shall 
they die. 

And the men whom Mosheh sent to search the land, 
and who returned to make all the congregation murmur 
against him, by bringing forth an evil name upon the 
land; those men who brought out the evil name upon 
the land died by the plague before the Lord. But 
Jehoshua bar Nun and Kaleb bar Jephuneh lived, of 
those men who went to explore the land. 

And Mosheh told these words to all the children of 
Israel, and the people bewailed ‘greatly. And they 
arose in the morning to go up to the top of the moun- 
tain, saying: Behold, we will go up to the place of 
which the Lord hath spoken; for we have sinned. 
But Mosheh said, Wherefore do you transgress against 
the decree of the Word of the Lord? But it will not 
prosper. Go not up, for the Shekinah of the Lord is 
not among you, and be not broken before your enemies. 
For the Amalkaah and the Kenaanaah are there before 
you, and you will fall by the sword; for, because you 
have turned away from the service of the Lord, the 
Word of the Lord will not be your helper. Yet they 
would commit the wickedness of going up to the sum- 
mit of the mountain, though the ark of the Lord’s 
covenant, and Mosheh, removed not from the midst of 
the camp. And the Amalkaah and the Kenaanaah who 
dwelt in the mountain came down and smote them, and 
pursued them unto Hormah. 


7 Theb. text, Zth tenuathi, “My vengeance.” Samaritan text, “ Ye 
shall know My vengeauce.” Sam. Vers., “ the compensation.” Sept., 
“the fury of My anger.” Syriac, “You shall know what (follows) 
upon your murmuring before Me.” 


7] ON NUMBERS. 288 


XY. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the children of Israel, and say to them: 
When you shall (at last) have come into the land which 
I will give you, and you will make an oblation before 
the Lord, a burnt offering, or a consecrated sacrifice for 
the release of a vow, or in a free will offering, or in 
your solemnities to render an acceptable service before 
the Lord, from the herd or from the flock; let him 
who offereth his oblation before the Lord bring for a 
mincha a tenth of flour sprinkled with the fourth of a 
hina of oil. And wine fora libation the fourth of a 
hina shall he make upon the burnt offering, or hallowed 
sacrifice, for one lamb: or for a ram he shall make a 
mincha of two tenths of flour sprinkled with the thir 
of a hina of oil; and wine for the libation thou shalt 
bring the third of a hina, to be received with accept- 
ance before the Lord. And when thou makest a 
bullock a burnt offering, or a hallowed sacrifice for the 
release of a vow, or hallowed sacrifices before the Lord, 
let him bring with the bullock a mincha of three tenths 
of flour sprinkled with a half hina of oil; and wine 
shalt thou bring for the libation the half of a hina, an 
oblation to be received with acceptance before the Lord. 
So shalt thou do for one bullock, or one ram, or one 
lamb from the lambs, or from the kids. According to 
the number that you perform so shall you do with each, 
according to their number. All native born (Hebrews) 
shall do these things to offer an oblation to be received 
with favour before the Lord. And if a sojourner who 
sojourneth with you, or whoever among you in your 
generations will make an oblation to be received with 
favour before the Lord, as you do, so shall hedo. One 
congregation and one rite shall be for you and for the 
sojourners who sojourn ; it is an everlasting statute ; as 
you are, so shall the sojourner be before the Lord: one 


284 TARGUM OF ONKELOS (CHAP. 


law and one judgment shall be for you end for the 
sojourners who dwell with you. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with the sons of Israel, and say to them, When you 
have come into the land into which I will bring you, 
and when you eat of the bread of the land, you shall set 
apart a separation before the Lord. Of the first of your 
food you shall set apart a cake for a separation; as the 
separation of the threshing-floor, so shall vou set it apart ; 
of the first of your bread (dough) you shall vive the 
separation before the Lord in your generations. 

And should you be in ignorance, and not do all these 
commandments of which the Lord hath spoken with 

-Mosheh, even all which the Lord commanded you 
by the land of Mosheh from the day that the Lord 
commanded and thenceforward in your generations, it 
shall be that if anything be hid from the eyes of 
the congregation and you do ignorantly, then all 
the congregation shall make a burnt offering of one 
young bullock, to be received with acceptance before 
the Lord, with his mincha and his libation, according to 
the proper manner, and one kid of the goats for a sin 
offering: and the priest shall make atonement for all the 
congrezation of the sons of 18786, and it shall be for- 
given them, for it was ignorance; but they shall bring their 
oblation before the Lord on account of their ignorance. 
And it shall be forgiven to all the congregation of the chil- 
dren of Israel, and to the sojourners who sojourn among 
them ; forall the people (were) inignorance. And if one 
sin ignorantly, he shall bring a female kid of the year fora 
sin offering ; and the priest shall make atonement for the 
man who hath erred in his sin through ignorance before 
the Lord, to atone for him, and it shall be forgiven him. 
For the native born of the sons of Israel, and for the 
sojourner who sojournethamong you, one law shallthere be 


ON NUMBERS. 285‏ [.צצ 


for you, for him who acteth in ignorance. But the man 
who doeth presumptuously,® whether of the native born, 
or of the sojourners, he provoketh the Lord to anger, 
and that man shall perish from among his people: 
because he hath despised the word of the Lord, and 
hath made His commandment vain, that man shall be 
utterly destroyed, his sin is upon him. 

And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, 
they found a man stealing wood on the day of the Sab- 
bath ; and they who had found him stealing wood brought 
him to Mosheh and Aharon, and to all the congregation. 
And they bound him in the house of custody ; for it had 
not been explained to them what they should do to him. 
And the Lord said unto Mosheh, The man shall be 
surely put to death; all the congregation shall stone 
him with stones without the camp. And all the con- 
gregation brought him forth without the camp, and 
stoned him with stones, and he died; as the Lord com- 
manded Mosheh. 

And the Lord spake to Mosheh, saying: Speak with 
the children of Israel, and bid them that they make 
them fringes? upon the borders of their garments 
throughout their generations, and that upon the fringes 
on the borders they put a ribbon of hyacinth. And 
they shall be to you for fringes, that you may look upon 
it, and remember all the commandments of the Lord, 
and do them, and not wander after the imagination of 
your heart, or after the sight of your eyes, after which 
you have gone astray. That you may remember and 
do all My precepts, and be saints before your God. I 
am the Lord your God who brought you forth from the 
land of Mizraim to be to you Eloha: Iam the Lord your 
God. 


8 Lit., ** who acteth with uncovered head.” 
5 Keruspedin. Heb., tsitsith: compare the Greek in Matt. ix. 20. 


286 TARGUM OF ONKELOS (CHAP. 


SECTION אצאצ‎ 1. 
KORACH. 


XVI. Bur Norach bar Izhar bar Kahath bar Levi, 
and Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, and On bar 
Pelath of the Beni Reuben, made a division. And they 
rose up in the presence of Mosheh with (other) men of the 
sons of Israel, two hundred and fifty, chiefs of the con- 
gregation, who at the time of the convocation had been 
men of name. And they gathered together against 
Mosheh, and against Aharon, and said to them, You are 
too great ;? for the whole of the congregation are all of 
them holy, and the Lord’s Shekinah dwelleth among 
them: wherefore then are you lifted up above the church 
of the Lord? 

And Mosheh heard, and fell upon his face. And he 
spake with horach, and with all the congregation, say- 
ing: In the morning the Lord will make known who 
it is who pertaineth to Him, and who hath been conse- 
crated to approach to His presence; and whosoever He 
shall appoint shall go near unto His service. This do: 
Take you censers, Korach and all his congregation; and 
put fire in them, and put sweet incense upon it before the 
Lord to-morrow: and the man whom the Lord will choose, 
he shall be holy. You have too much,? sons of Levi. 

And Mosheh said to Korach, Hear now, sons of Levi: 
Ts it a little thing with you that the God of Israel hath 
separated you from the congregation of Israel to bring 
you near before Him to perform the service of the Lord’s 


1 Heb., “called to the council, men of name.” Syr., “who were 
at the time called men of name.” 

* Sagi lekun. Heb. text, Rab lakem, “Too much for you.” Syriac, 
“Ts it not sufficient for you that all the congregation are consecrated 2” 

2 Or, ‘are too ereat 3” Sagi lekun. 


XVL.] ON NUMBERS. 287 


tabernacle, and to stand before the congregation to minis- 
ter to them? But He hath brought thee nigh, aud all thy 
brethren the sons of Levi with thee: and seek you now 
the High Priesthood also? Therefore thou and all thy 
company have gathered together against the Lord. And 
Aharon, what is he, that you murmur against him ? 

And Mosheh sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the 
sons of Eliab ; but they said, We will not come up. Is 
it a trifle that thou hast brought us from a land making 
milk and honey to kill us in the desert, that thou mayest 
domineer and rule over us? Neither hast thou brought 
us into the land that maketh milk and honey, to give us 
an inheritance of fields and vineyards: wilt thou blind 
the eyes of these men? We will not come up. 

And Mosheh was greatly angered, and said before 
the Lord, Receive not Thou their offering: I have not 
taken one ass from them, neither have 1 injured one of 
them. And Mosheh said to Korach, Be thou and all 
thy company prepared before the Lord, thou and they 
and Aharon to-morrow. And take every man his censer, 
and put sweet incense upon them, each man to offer 
before the Lord (with) hiscenser. And they took every 
man his censer, aud set fire in it, and put sweet incense 
thereon, and stood at the door of the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance, with Mosheh and Aharon. And Korach assem- 
bled with him all the company at the door of the taber- 
nacle of ordinance. 

And the glory of the Lord was revealed to all the 
congregation ; and the Lord spake with Mosheh and to 
Abaron, saying: Separate yourselves from among this 
company, and I will consume them at once. But they 
fell upon their faces, and said, O God, the God of the 
spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and thou be wroth 
with all the congregation? And the Lord spake with 
Mosheh, saying: Speak with the congregation, saying: 


288 TARGUM OF ONKELOS four. 


Get you up from among the tents of Korach, Dathan, 
and Abiram. And Mosheh arose and went unto 
Dathan and Abiram, and the elders of Israel followed 
him. And he spake with the congregation, saying: 
Remove now from the tents of these guilty men, and 
touch not anything that is theirs, lest you be stricken 
with all their sins. And they gat up from the tents of 
Korach, Dathan, and Abiram round about; and Dathan 
and Abiram came out, and stood at the door of their 
tents, with their wives, and their sons, and their families. 

And Mosheh said: By this shall you know that the 
Lord hath sent me to do all these works, because (I do 
them) not of my own will: If these men die the death 
of all men, and the visitation of all men be visited upon 
them, the Lord hath not sent me. But if the Lord 
create a creation, and the earth open her mouth, and 
swallow them up, and all that is theirs, and they go 
down alive into ₪601, then you will know that these 
men have caused anger before the Lord. 

And it was, when he had finished to speak all these 
words, that the ground under them clave asunder, and 
the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, 
and the men of their houses; and all the men of Korach, 
and all their substance, they, and all who were theirs, 
went down alive into Sheul; and the earth closed upon 
them, and they perished from among the congregation. 

And all Israel who stood round about them fled 
from their cry ; for they said, Lest the earth swallow us. 
And fire came out from before the Lord, and consumed 
the two hundred and fifty men who had offered the 
sweet incense. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak to 
Elazar bar Aharon the priest, that he take out the 
censers from among the burnings, and throw away the 
fire, for they are consecrated. The censers of those 


ON NUMBERS. 289‏ [.נטצ 


guilty men who sinned against their souls, let him make 
of them beaten plates, to cover the altar; for they had 
offered them before the Lord, and they are consecrated ; 
and they shall be for a sign unto the children of Israel. 
And Elazar the priest took the golden censers, with 
which they who were burned had offered, and beat them 
abroad, for a covering for the altar, to be a memorial to 
the sons of Israel, that no strange man who is not of 
the seed of Aharon shall approach to burn sweet 
incense before the Lord, and that he be not as סא‎ 
and his company, as the Lord had said to him by the 
hand of Mosheh. 

But on the day which followed, all the congregation 
of the sons of Israel murmured against Mosheh and 
against Aharon, saying: You have caused the death of 
the Lord’s people. And it was, while the congregation 
eathered against Mosheh and against Aharon, that they 
looked toward the tabernacle of ordinance; and, behold, 
the cloud covered it, and the glory of the Lord was 
revealed. And Moshel and Aharon went up before the 
tabernacle of ordinance; and the Lord spake with 
Mosheh, saving: Separate yourselves from the midst of 
this congregation, that I may now consume them. But 
they fell upou their faces. And Mosheh said to Aharon : 
Take the censer, and put fire upon it from the altar, and 
lay on sweet incense, and go quickly to the congrega- 
tion, and make atonement for them; for anger hath 
gone forth fro:n before the Lord, the plague hath begun. 
And Aharon took, as 11086 had said, and ran into 
the midst of the congregation, and, behold, the plague 
had begun among the people; and he put on sweet in- 
cense and made atonement for the people. And he stood 
between the dead and the living, and the plague ceased. 

But they who died of the plague were fourteen 
thousand and seven hundred, beside those who died on 

0 


290 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHAP. 


account of the matter of Korach. And Aharon returned 
to Mosheh, unto the door of the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance, and the plague ceased. 

XAVIT. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and take from them seve- 
rally a rod, according the house of their fathers, twelve 
rods, and write thou the name of each man upon his 
rod. And upon the rod of Levi thou shalt write the 
name of Aharon; for one rod (only) there shall be for 
(each) chief of their father’s house. And thou shalt lay 
them up in the tabernacle of ordinance before the testi- 
mony, where I will appoint My Word to be with thee. 
And it shall be that the rod of the man whom I will 
choose shall bud; and I will make to cease from before 
Me the murmuring of the sons of Israel, with which 
they have murmured against you. And Mosheh spake 
with the sons of Israel; and all their chiefs gave to him, 
every chief one rod, according to the house of their 
fathers, twelve rods. And Aharon’s rod was among their 
rods. And Mosheh laid up the rods before the Lord in 
the tabernacle of the testimony. 

And it came to pass on the following day, that 
Mosheh went into the tabernacle of the testimony ; and, 
behold, the rod of Aharon of the house of Levi had 
germinated, and produced branches, and had blossomed, 
and ripened almonds. And Mosheh brought out all 
the rods from before the Lord unto all the sons of 
Israel, and they recognised and took every man his 
rod. 

And the Lord said to Mosheh: Take back Aharon’s 
red before the testimony, to be kept for a sign unto the 
rebellious people, that their murmurings before Me may 
come to an end, and they die not. And Mosheh did 
as the Lord commanded, so did he. 

And the children of Israel spake to Mosheh, saying : 


XVIII. | ON NUMBERS. 291 


Behold, some of us are slain with the sword; and, 
behold, some are swallowed up by the earth; and, be- 
hold, some perish with the plague. Whoever, approach- 
ing, approacheth the tabernacle of the Lord dieth; 
behold, we are consumed with death. 

AVI. And the Lord said to Aharon: Thou and thy 
sons, and the house of thy fathers with thee, shall make 
reconciliation on account of transgressions (against) the 
sanctuary; and thou and thy sons with thee shall make 
atonement for the sins of your priesthood. And thy 
brethren also of the tribe of Levi, the tribe of thy father, 
bring with thee, and let them be added with thee, to 
serve thee; but thou and thy sons with thee (shall 
minister) before the tabernacle of the testimony. And 
they shall keep thy charge, and the charge of all the 
tabernacle; but to the vessels of the sanctuary and of 
the altar they (the Levites) shall not approach, that 
neither they nor you may die. And they shall be joined 
with thee, and keep charge of the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance for all the service of the tabernacle, and a stranger 
shall not come near you. And they shall keep charge 
of the sanctuary and of the altar, that there may be no 
more wrath upon the sons of Israel. And, behold, 1 
have taken your brethren, the Levites, from among the 
sons of Israel ; as a gift are they given to you before the 
Lord, to perform the service of the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance. But thou, and thy sons with thee, take charge 
of your priesthood, for every thing about the altar and 
within the veil you shall fulfil the service ; the ministry 
of the priesthood I have given you as a gift, and the 
stranger who cometh near shall die. 

And the Lord said to Aharon: Behold, I have given 
to thee the charge of My separated things ; of st that 
are consecrated by the sons of Israel - thee have I 


given them, and to thy sons, on account of the anoint- 
an 9 


209) TARGUM OF ONKELOS [C:IAP. 


ing, by an everlasting statute. This shall be thine of 
the most holy things which remain from the fire, of all 
their oblations, and of all their minchas, and of all their 
sin offerings, and of all their trespass offerings which 
they render before Me; tley are most sacred to thee 
and to thy sons. Jn the sanctuary thou mayest cat 
thereof, every male may eat it, to thee it shall be con- 
secrated. 

And this is thine: the separated things of their 
minchas, of all the elevations of the sons of Isracl, to thee 
have I given them, and to thy sons, and to thy daughters 
with thee, by an everlasting statute:3 every one who is 
clean in thy house may eat thereof ali the best of tie 
oil,* and all the best of the wine,® and the wheat, the 
first fruits of them which they present before the Lord, 
unto thee I have given them. The first fruits of all that 
is on their land which they present before the Lord shall 
be thine; every one in thy house who is clean may eat 
thereof. Every tliing devoted in Israel shall be thine. 
Whatever openeth the womb of all flesh which thev 
offer before the Lord, of man, or of beast, shall be for 
thee; but thou shalt surely redeem the firstborn of 
man, and the firstling of an unclean animal thou shalt 
redeem; and his redemption shall be at the age of one 
month; thou shalt redeem with the price of five shekels, 
in the shekel of the sanctuary it is ten meahs: but the 
firstling of an ox, or of a sheep, or of a goat, thou 
mayest not redeem, they are consecrated; thou shalt 
sprinkle their blood upon the aitar, and burn their fat, 
an oblation to be accepted before the Lord. But their 
fiesh shall be for thee, as the breast of the elevation, 
and the right shoulder, they shall be thine. All the 

3 Sam. Vers., ‘for a perpetual portion.” 


* Samm. Vers., “ of the new oil.” 
* Sam. Vers., “the dry juice, or the vid.” 


xvi. ] ON NUMBERS. 293 


consecrated separations which the sons of Israel set 
apart before the Lord, I have given to thee and to thy 
children with thee by an everlasting covenant; an ever- 
lasting covenant of salt it is before the Lord, with thee, 
and thy children with thee. 

And the Lord said to Aharon: In their land thou 
wilt not have possession, nor will thine be a portion 
among them; the gifts that I have given thee, they are 
thy portion and thy inheritance among the children of 
Israel. And to the sons of Levi, behold, I have given 
all the tenths in Israel for a possession, on account of 
the service® with which they serve in the ministry of 
the tabernacle of ordinance. But the children of Israel 
must no more come nigh to the tabernacle of ordinance, 
to contract guilt and to die. But the Levites shall per- 
form the service of the tabernacle of ordinance, and 
shall bear their iniquity; a statute for ever unto your 
generations. And among the sons of Israel they shall 
not possess an inheritance ; for the tenths of the children 
of Israel which they set apart before the Lord for a 
separation, I have given to the Levites for a possession ; 
therefore lave I said to them, Among the sons of Israel 
you shall not possess an inheritance. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
also to the Levites, and say to them, When you take 
from the sons of Israel the tenths which I have given 
you of theirs, vou shall set apart from them a separation 
before the Lord, a tenth of the tenth. And your sepa- 
ration shall be reckoned to you as the corn from the 
threshing-floor, and as the wine of the wine-press; so 
shall you set apart the separation before the Lord of all 
your tenths that you receive from the sons of Israel, 
and give thereof a separation before the Lord unto 
Aharon the priest. Of all that is given to you ye shall 


5 Sam. Vers., “for the wages of the ministry.” 


294 TARGUM OF ONKELOS. [ouaP. 


set apart every separation for the Lord, of all the best 
of it, to be the hallowed portion thereof. And say thou 
to them, When you have set apart the finest of it, it 
shall be reckoned to the Levites as the produce of the 
threshing-floor, and as the fruitage for the wine-press ; 
and you may eat it in every place, you and the men of 
your house; for it is a remuneration to you on account 
of your service in the tabernacle of ordinance. And 
you shall not contract guilt by it in your setting apart 
the finest of it, nor profane the consecrated things of 
the children of Israel. 


SECTION XXNIX. 
HUKKATH. 


XIX. Anp the Lord spake with Mosheh and to 
Aharon, saying: This is the decree of the law which 
the Lord hath commanded, saying: Speak to the sons of 
Israel that they bring to thee a red heifer, unblemished, 
with no spot in her, and upon which no yoke hath been 
put. And you shall give her unto Elazar the priest, 
that he may bring her without the camp, and (one) shall 
slaughter her before him. And Elazar, the priest, shall 
take (some) of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle of 
her blood against the face of the tabernacle of ordinance 
seven times. And (one) shall burn the heifer before his 
eyes; her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her 
food shall he burn. And the priest shall take cedar 
wood, and hyssop, and scarlet, and cast it into the 
midst of the burning of the heifer. And the priest 
shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and 
afterwards come into the camp: but the priest shall be 


ON NUMBERS. 295‏ [,אזצ 


unclean until the evening. And he who burneth her 
shall wash his clothes with water, and bathe his flesh in 
water, and be unclean until evening. And a man who 
is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and lay 
them up without the camp in a clean place, and it shall 
be for the congregation of the children of Israel to keep, 
for the sprinkling with water; it is (a purification) for 
sin. And he who gathereth up the ashes of the heifer 
shall wash lus raiment, and be unclean until the evening ; 
and it shall be for the children of Israel, and for the 
strangers who dwell among you, a statute for ever. 

Whosoever toucheth the dead of any of mankind 
shall be unclean seven days. He shall sprinkle with it 
on the third day, and on the seventh day shall be clean ; 
but if he sprinkle it not on the third day, on the seventh 
day he shall not be clean. Whoever toucheth the dead 
body of a man who hath died, and sprinkleth not with 
it, defileth the tabernacle of the Lord; and that man 
shall be cut off from Israel: because the water of sprink- 
ling is not sprinkled upon him, he shall be unclean, (for) 
his uncleanness is yet upon him. 

This is the law when a man dieth in a tent: every 
one who entereth the tent, and every one who is in the 
tent, shall be unclean seven days. And every open 
earthen vessel which hath not a covering fastened upon 
it round about is unclean. And whoever toucheth one 
who is slain with the sword upon the face of the field, 
or a dead body, or the bone of a man, or a grave, shall 
be unclean seven days. And for the unclean person they 
shall take of the ashes of the burnt sin offering, and put 
spring water upon it in a vessel. And a man who is 
clean shall take hyssop, and dip it in the water, and 
sprinkle upon the tent, and upon every vessel, and upon 
the persons who are there, and upon him who had 
touched the bone, or the slain, or the dead body, or the 


296 TARGUM OF ONKELUS [cHAP. 


grave. And the clean person shall sprinkle the unclean 
on the third day, and on the seventh day ; and on the 
seventh day he shall be clean; and shall sprinkle his 
raiment, and wash with water, and at the evening he 
shall be clean. But the man who is unclean, and it 
hath not been sprinkled upon him, shall be cut off from 
the congregation, because he would detile the sanctuary 
of the Lord. The water of sprinkling was not sprinkled 
upon him; he is unclean. And it shall be to them for 
an everlasting statute, that he who applieth the water of 
sprinkling shall wash his clothes, aud whoever toucheth 
the water of sprinkling shall be unclean until the even- 
ing; and whatever may be touched by the unclean 
person shall be unclean, and the man who toucheth it 
shall be unclean until the evening. 

XX. And the children of Israel, the whole congrega- 
tion, came to the wilderness of Zin in the first month, 
and the people abode in Rekem; and Miriam dicd there, 
and was buried there. 

And there was no water for the congregation; and 
they gathered against Mosheh and against Aharon ; and 
the people were contentious with Mosheh, and spake, 
saying, Would that we had died when cur brethren 
died” before the Lord! And why have you brought the 
congregation of the Lord into this wilderness, that we 
and our cattle may die here? And wherefore have you 
made us come up from Mizraim, to bring us into this 
evil place? This is not a place for sowing; here are 
neither fig trees, nor vines, nor pomegranates, neither is 
there water to drink. 

And Mosheh and Alaron went up from before the 
congregation unto the door of the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance, and fell upon their faces; and the glory of the 
Lord was revealed to them. Aud the Lord spake with 


‘ Or, “with the death of our brethren.” 


ON NUMBERS. 297‏ א 


Mosheh, saying, Take the rod, and gather the congte- 
gation together, thou and Aharon thy brother, and 
speak to the Rock, before their eyes, and it shall give 
its waters ; and thou shalt bring forth water for them 
from the rock, and give drink to the congregation and 
their cattle. 

And Mosheh took the rod from before the Lord, as 
He had commanded him. And Mosheh and Aharon 
assembled the congregation before the rock; and he 
said to them: Hear now, rebels! Are we to draw 
forth water for you from this rock? And Mosheh 
lifted up his hand, and smote the rock with the rod two 
times; and the waters came forth greatly, and the con- 
gregation drank and their cattle. 

But the Lord spake unto Mosheh and Aharon: Be- 
cause you lave not believed in My Word to sanctify 
Me in the eyes of the sons of Israel, therefore you 
shall not bring this congregation into the land that I 
have given them. These are the Waters of ו‎ 
because the sons of Israel strove before the Lord, and 
He was sanctified in them. 

And Mosheh sent ambassadors from Rekem to the 
king of Edom:® Thus saith thy brother Israel, Thou 
knowest all the trouble we have found; that our fathers 
went down into Mizraim, and we dwelt in Mizraim 
many days, and the Mizraee badly treated us and our 
fathers. And we prayed before the Lord, and He 
accepted our prayers, aud sent an Angel, and brought 
us out from Mizraim; and, behold, we are in Rekem, a 
city which is on the side of thy border. Let us now 
pass through thy country: we will mot go through a 
field or through a vinevard, nor will we drink up the 
water of the cistern: on the king’s highway will we 


5 Matsutha. 1160. Meribak, “contention.” LXX. and Vulg., 
“the water of contradiction.” * Sam. Vers., ‘Gabla.” 


0 5 


298 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


travel ; we will not turn to the right hand or to the left 
until we have passed through thy border. 

But Edomea said to him, Thou shalt not pass through 
my border, lest I come out against thee with the 
slaughtering sword. And the sons of Israel said to 
him, We would go up by the trodden way; and if we 
drink of thy water, I and my cattle, we will give thee 
the price of it; we will do nothing evil; upon my feet 
1 will pass through. But he said, Thou shalt not pass 
through. And Ldomea came out to meet him with 
great force and with a strong hand. So Edomea refused 
to permit Israel to go through his border; and Israel 
turned away from him. 

And they went forward from Rekem, and all the con- 
gregation of the children of Israel came to Mount Hor. 
And the Lord spake to Mosheh and to Aharon at Mount 
Hor, by the coast of the land of Edom, saying: Aharon 
shall be gathered unto his people; for he shall not enter 
into the land which I have given to the children of 
Israel, because you rebelled against My Word at the 
waters of strife. Take Aharon and Elazar his son, and 
bring them up to Mount Hor; and strip Aharon of his 
vestments,and put themupon Elazar his son; and Aharon 
shall be gathered (to his people), and shall die there. 

And Mosheh did as the Lord commanded, and they 
went up to Mount Hor before the eves of all the con- 
greation, And Moshel took off his garments from 
Aharon, and put them upon Elazar his son. And 
Aharon died there, on the summit of the mount. And 
Mosheh and Elazar came down trom the mount. And 
all the congregation saw that Aharon was dead; and all 
the house of Israel bewailed Aliaron thirty days. 

XXI. And when the Kenaavah, king Arad, who 
dwelt m the south, heard that Israel was coming by the 
way of the explorers, he set battle in array against Israel, 


ON NUMBERS. 299‏ [.זצצ 


and took some of them captives. And Israel vowed a 
vow before the Lord, and said: If Thou wilt surely 
deliver this people into my hand, then I will destroy 
their cities. And the Lord accepted Israel’s prayer, and 
gave up the Kenaanaah; and he destroyed them and 
their cities, and he called the name of the place Charma.! 

And they journeyed from Mount Hor by the way of 
the Sea of Suph, to go round from the land of Edom: 
and the soul of the people was wearied in the way. And 
the people murmured (or, growled) against the Word 
of the Lord, and contended with Mosheh, (saying :) 
Why have you brought us up out of Mizraim to die in 
the desert? for there is neither bread nor water, and 
our soul is weary of manua, this light food. And the 
Lord sent forth burning serpents among the people, and 
much people of Israel died. And the people came to 
Mosheh, and said: We have sinned, for we have mur- 
mured before the Lord, and lave contended with thee. 
Intercede before the Lord, that He may remove the 
serpents from among us. And Mosheh prayed for the 
people. 

And the Lord said to Mosheh: Make thee a burning 
(serpent), and uplift it onan ensign; and every one who 
hath been bitten, and beholdeth it, shall live (or, be 
saved). And Mosheh made a serpent of brass, and set 
it upon an ensign; and when a serpent had bitten a 
man, if he looked up to the serpent of brass, he lived 
(or, was saved). 

And the children of Israel journeyed and encamped 
in Oboth. And they journeyed from Oboth, and en- 
camped at the Ford? of the Passengers, which is in 
the wilderness over against Moab, toward the sunrise. 
And they removed from thence, and encamped by the 


1 Charma, cherem, “ devoted to destruction.” 
2 Peschito, “ Fountain.” 


300 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAF, 


brook Zared. Thence they journeyed, and pitched on 
the other side of Arnon, that is in the wilderness that 
stretcheth out from the coasts of the Amoraah; for 
Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the 
Amoraah. Wherefore it is said in the Book of the 
Wars, That which the Lord did by the Sea of Suph, and 
the great deeds which (He wrought) by the torrents of 
Arnon, and at the flowing of the streams which lead 
towards Lechayath, and are joined at the confine of 
Moab. And from thence was given to them the well, 
which is the well whereof the Lord spake to Mosheh, 
Gather the people together, and I will give them water. 
Therefore sang Israel this song :—Spring up, O well; 

sing ye unto it. The well which the princes digged, 

the chiefs of the people cut it, the scribes with “their 
staves; it was given to them in the wilderness. And 
from (the time) that it was given to them it descended 
with them to the rivers, and from the rivers it went up 
with them to the height,’ and from the height to the 
vale which is in the fields of Moab, at the head of 
Ramatha, which looketh towards Bethjeshimon. 

And Israel sent messengers to Sihon, king of the 
Amoraah, saying: I would pass through thy country : 
I will not turn aside into field or vineyard ; we will not 
drink of the waters of the cistern ; by the king’s high- 
way will we go until we have crossed thy border. But 
Sihon would not permit Israel to pass through his 
coast ; and Sihon gathered all his people, and came out 
to prevent Israel in the wilderness, and came to Jahaz, 
and arrayed battle against Israel. Aud Israel smote 
him with the edge of the sword, and took possession of 
his land from Arnon unto Jabbok, unto the Beni 
Amnon ; for the border of the Beni Ammon was strong. 
And Israel subdued all those cities, and Israel dwelt in 


3 Cr, “to Ramatha.” Heb. text, = Banoth.” 


XXL. | ON NUMBERS. 301 


all the cities of the Amoraah, in Heshbon, and in all the 
villages thereof. Tor Heshbon was the city of Sihon, 
king of the Amoraah; he had made war with the 
former king of Moab, and had taken all his territory 
from his hand unto Arnon. Therefore, say the pro- 
vetbs:—Come to Heshbon; let-the city of Sihon be 
builded and finished: for an east wind strong as fire 
hath gone out from Heshbon, and the servants of war 
(as) with a flame from the city of Sihon: they have 
slain the people who inhabited Lechayath of Moab, the 
priests who ministered in the idol-temple in the height 
of Arnona. Woe to you, 31030866, you are undone, ye 
people who have worshipped Kemosh; he hath delivered 
up his besieged sons and his daughiters into captivity, 
unto Sihon, king of the Amoraah. And the kingdom 
hath ceased from Heshbon, the dominion hath passed 
away from Dibon, they have laid waste unto Nophak 
which joineth Medeba. And Israel dwelt in the land 
of the Amoraah. 

And Mosheh sent to explore Jaazer; and they sub- 
dued the towns, and drave out the Amoraah who were 
therein. And they turned and went up by the way of 
Mathnan ;* aud Og, king of Mathnan, came out to meet 
them, he and all his people, to give battle at Edrei. 
But the Lord said to Mosheh, Fear him not: for I 
have delivered him into thy hand with all his people 
and his couutry ; and thou shalt do to him as thou hast 
done to Sihon, the king of the Amoraah who dwelt in 
Heshbon. And they smote him, and his sons, and all 
his people, until none remained of him who were 
spared ; aud they took possession of his land. 

XXII. And the sons of Israel moved onward, and 
encamped in the plain of Moab (at some space) from 
the ford of the Jordan (towards) Jericho. 

+ Sam. Vers., Batanin. 


302 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [ CHAP. 


SECTION XL. 
BALAK. 


Balak bar Zippor saw all that Israel had done‏ פא\. 
to the Amoraah. And the Moabaah teared before the‏ 
people greatly, because they were many; yea, the‏ 
Moabaee were in distress before the sons of Israel.‏ 
And Moab said to the elders of Midian, Now will this‏ 
host consume all that are round about us, as the ox‏ 
licketh up the herbage of the field. And Balak bar‏ 
Zippor was the king of Moab at that time. And he‏ 
sent messengers to Bileam bar Beor unto Pethor® Aram‏ 
which is upon the Phrat, the land of the sons of his‏ 
people, to call him, saying: Behold, ₪ people hath come‏ 
out of Mizraim; lo, they cover the sunshine from the‏ 
earth, and they are dwelling over against me. Come‏ 
now, I entreat, curse this people for me, for they are‏ 
stronger than I: if perhaps I may become able to fight‏ 
with him, and drive him from the land: for I know‏ 
that he whom thou blessest is blessed, and he whom‏ 
thou dost curse is accursed.‏ 

And the elders of Moab and of Midian went, with 
the (price of) divinations in their hands, and came to 
Bileam, and told him the words of Balak. And he 
said to them, Lodge here for the night, and I will 
return you word, according as the Lord speaketh with 
me. Aud the princes of Moab tarried with Bileam. 

And a word from before the Lord came unto Bileam, 
and said, Who are these men who are with thee? And 
Bileam said before the Lord, Balak bar Zippor, king of 
Moab, hath sent +0 me. Behold, a people are come out 


. oe : . z 
Sam. Vers., “Phasura.” Syriac, “Bileam bar Beor, the inter- 


preter ;”” (Ph shura,) from pheshar, “to explain.” Pethar, in Chaldee, 
has the same mzaning. 


XXII. | ON NUMBERS. 303 


of Mizraim, and hide the glance of the sun from the 
earth....... Now come, curse him for me, that I may be 
able to fight him, and drive him away. And the Lord 
said to Bileam, Thou shalt not go with them: thou 
shalt not curse the people, for he is blessed. And 
Bileam arose in the morning, and said to the princes of 
Balak, Go back to your country; for it is not pleasing 
before the Lord to permit me to go with you. And 
the princes of Moab arose and came to Balak, and said, 
Bileam refuseth to come with us. 

But Balak added to send princes more (in number) 
and nobler than those. And they came to Bileam, and 
said to him: Thus saith Balak bar Zippor: Be not, I 
beseech thee, hindered from coming to me; for I will 
greatly honour thee with honour, and will do all that 
thou shalt bid me. Come, then, curse me this people. 
Bileam responded, and said to the servants of Balak: 
If Balak would give me his house full of silver and 
gold, I have no power to transgress the decree of the 
Word of the Lord my God, to do either litile or great. 
But now I beg you tarry here this night, that I may 
know what yet the Lord will speak unto me. 

And word came from before the Lord unto Bileam 
by night, and said to him: If the men come to call 
thee, arise and go with them; nevertheless the word 
that I speak with thee, that thou shalt do. 

And Bileam rose up in the morning, and saddled his 
ass, and went with the princes of Moab. But the dis- 
pleasure of the Lord was provoked because he (so) 
went; 5 and the angel of the Lord stood in the road to 
withstand him: and he was riding upon his ass, and his 
two young men with him. And the ass discerned the 
angel of the Lord standing in the way with lus sword 
drawn in his hand; and the ass started aside from the 


6 Or, “that he went of himself,” arey azel hu; Heb., ki holek hu. 


304 TAKGUM OF ONKELOS [orap. 


road, and went into the ficld. And Bileam struck the 
ass to make her to return into the road. And the 
angel of the Lord (again) stood in the way of the vine- 
yards in a place where there was a fence here and a 
fence there. And the ass discerned the angel of the 
Lord, and thrust herself to the wall, and drave Bileam’s 
foot against the wall; and he smote her again. And 
the angel of the Lord yet passed on, and stood in a 
narrow place where there was no way to turn to the 
right or to the left. And the ass discerned the angel 
of the Lord, and fell down under Bileam; and Bileam’s 
wrath was provoked, and he smote the ass with his 
staff. And the Lord opened the mouth of the ass; and 
she spake to Bileam, What have I done to thee that 
thou hast smitten me these three times? And Bileam 
said to the ass, Because thou hast mocked me: would 
that there was a sword in my hand! for now would I 
kill thee. And the ass said to Bileam, Am I not thy 
ass, upon whom thou hast ridden from (the time that) 1 
have been thine unto this day? Have I ever been 
used to do thus to thee? And he said, No. And the 
Lord unveiled Bileam’s eyes, and he saw the angel of 
the Lord standing in the road with his sword 
unsheathed in his hand: and he bowed, and worshipped 
upon his face. 

And the angel of the Lord said to him, Wherefore 
hast thou smitten thine ass these three times? Behold, 
I have come out to withstand thee, because it is seen 
before me that thou art willing to go in a way contrary 
to me. But the ass discerned me, and turned from 
before me these three times: unless she had turned from 
before me, now should I have slain thee, and her would 
T have spared. And Bileam said to the angel of the 
Lord, I knew not that thou wast standing before me in 
the way. And uow, if it be evil in thine eyes, I will 


ON NUMBERS. 305‏ [.זזזצצ 


return. But the angel of the Lord said to Bileam, Go 
with the men; only the word that I shall speak with 
thee, that thou shalt say. 

Aud Bileam went with the princes of Balak. And 
Balak heard that Bileam was coming, and went forth to 
meet him, at a city of Moab which is upon the border 
of Arnon, on the side of the frontier. And Balak said 
to Bileam, Did not I sending send for thee to call 
thee? Why didst thou not come to me? Hast thou 
not indeed said that I am not able to do thee honour ? 
And Bileam said to Balak, Behold, I have come to 
thee: but even now, have I really any power to speak 
anything? The word which the Lord putteth into my 
mouth I will speak. 

And Bileam went with Balak, and they came to a city 
of his territory.” And Balak slaughtered oxen and sheep, 
and sent to Bileam and to the princes who were with 
him. And when it was morning, Balak took Bileam, 
and brought him up to the high places of his 1001 ; 
and he saw from thence the extreme of the people. 

XXIII. And Bileam said to Balak, Build me here 
seven altars, and prepare me here seven bullocks and 
seven rams. And Balak did as Bileam had spoken, and 
Balak and Bileam offered up a bullock and a ram upon 
every altar. And Bileam said to Balak, Remain by thy 
burnt offering; and I will go, if perhaps the Word may 
meet me from before the Lord; and the word that He 
showeth me I will disclose unto thee. And he went 
solitary. 

And the Word from before the 120105 met Bileam ; 
and he said to Him, The seven altars have 1 set in order, 
and have offered a bullock and a ram upon every altar. 
And the Lord put a word upon Bileam’s mouth, and 


7 Sam. text, “ unto the city of visions.” Sam. Vers., “ of his mysteries.” 
8 Sam. text, “the angel of the Lord.” 


306 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


said to him: Return unto Balak, and thus shalt thou 
speak. And he returned to him, and, behold, he was 
standing by his burnt sacrifice, he and all the nobles of 
Moab. And he took up his parable, and said : 

Balak, king of Moab, hath brought me from Aram, 

From the mountains of the east : 

Come, curse me, Jakob, 

Come, hunt down? Israel for me. 

How shall I curse whom God hath not cursed ? 

How shall I persecute whom God hath not ? 

For from the top of the mountain I discern him, 

And look upon him from the heights ; 

Lo, the people by themselves are to possess the world, 

And among the nations they shall not be judged with 

consumption. 

Who can number the dust of the house of Jakob, 

Of whom it is said, They shall increase as the dust of 

the earth, 

Or of one of the four camps of Israel ? 

Let mine be the death of his truthful ones, 

And let my end be as theirs ! 

And Balak said to Bileam, What hast thou done to 
me? I brought thee to curse my enemies, and, behold, 
blessing hast thou blessed them. But he said, That 
which the Lord hath put in my mouth must I not 
observe to speak? And Balak said to him, Come now 
with me to another place, from whence thou mayest see 
him, where thou canst see only the outer side, but not 
the whole, and curse him for me from thence. And he 
brought him to the field of the watch-tower on the top 
of the hill; and builded seven altars, and offered a bul- 
lock and a ram on every altar. And he said to Balak, 
Stand here by thy burnt offering, and I will go yonder. 


2 Or , i iGo 
Or, ‘persecute.’ The Syriac has, “cause to perish.” Hebrew 
text, ‘‘ execrate.” 


XXIIL | ON NUMBERS. 307 


And the Word from before the Lord met Bileam, and 
put a word in his mouth, and said, Return to Balak, 
and thus speak. And he came to him, and he was 
standing by his burnt offering, and the nobles of Moab 
with him. And Balak said to him, What hath the Lord 
spoken? And he took up his parable, and said: 

Arise, Balak, and hear, 

Listen to my words, Bar Zippor : 

The word of Eloha is not as the words of men; 

The sons of men speak, but lie ; 

Nor is it as the works of the children of flesh, 

Who decree to do, but repent, and change their 

counsels. 

What He hath said He will perform, 

And His every word is steadfast. 

Behold, I have received benedictions to bless Israel, 

And I may not turn my blessing from him. 

I have seen that in the house of Jakob 

The worshippers of idols are not, 

Nor in Israel the workers of the work of lies. 

The Word of the Lord their God is their helper, 

Aud the Shekinah of their King is among them. 

God, who brought them out from Mizraim, 

Becomes his strength and exaltation. 

For no divinations can prosper against the house of 
Jakob, 
Nor enchantments against the myriads of Israel. 
According to the time it shall be said of Jakob and of 
Israel, : 

What hath Eloah wrought ! 

Behold, the people shall dwell as a lioness, 

And as a lion shall he lift himself up ; 

Tatil be hath slaia with slaughter, 

He will not rest in his land, 

And inherit the treasures of the nations. 


308 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [ CHAP. 


Aud Balak said to Bileam, Neither cursing curse 
them, nor blessing bless them. But Bileam answered 
and said to Balak, Did I not tell thee, saying, All that 
the Lord specketh, that 1 must do? And Balak said 
to Bileam, Come now, I will take thee to another place ; 
perhaps it may be pleasing before the Lord, that thou 
mayest curse them for me from thence. And Balak 
conducted Bileam to the top of the high place that 
looketh toward the face of Beth Jeshimon. And Bileam 
said to Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare 
me here seven bullocks and seven rams. And Balak 
did as Bileam had said, and offered a bullock and a ram 
on every altar. 

XAIV, And Bileam saw that it was appointed before 
the Lord to bless Israel; and he went not as at those 
former times to inquire by divinations, but set his face 
towards the calf that the sous of Israel had made in the 
wilderness. And Bileam lifted up his eyes, and beheld 
Israel dwelling by his tribes; and the Spirit of pro- 
plecy rested upon him from before the Lord. And he 
took up his parable, and said : 

Bileam, the son of Beor, hath said, 

The man who saw the Beautiful! hath said, 

He hath said who heard the Word from before God, 

Who saw the vision of the Almighty, prostrate when 

he saw : 

How goodly is thy land, O Jakob, 

And the house of thy habitation, O Israel ! 

As rivers Howing onward; as the watered garden by 

Euphrates, 

As aromatics planted by the Lord ; as cedars planted 

by the waters. 

The king anointed from his sous shall increase, 

And lave dominion over many nations ; 


1 Or, “who saw fairly, or clearly.” 


XXIV. | ON NUMBERS. 309 


His king shall be mightier than Agag, and his king- 

dom be exalted. 

God, who brought them from Mizraim, is mighty and 

high, and by Him 

Shall Israel use the wealth of the nations their foes, 

Enjoy the spoils of their kings, and inherit their lands. 

He reposed in his strength, as the lion and the 

lioness, 

And no kingdom may commove him. 

They who bless thee shall be blessed, 

And they who curse thee be accursed. 

And the anger of Balak was roused against Bileam, 
and he smote his hands together. And Balak said to 
Bileam, I called thee to curse my enemies, and, behold, 
blessing hast thou blessed them these three times ! 
And now go to thy place. I said, Honouring I would 
honour thee; but, behold, the Lord hath kept thee back 
from honour. But Bileam said to Balak, Did 1 not 
also tell the messengers whom thou sentest to me, say- 
ing, If Baluk would give me his house full of silver and 
gold, I have no power to transgress the decree 0] 6 
Word of the Lord, to do good or evil of my own will; 
whatsoever the Lord shall :uy, that will 1 speak? And 
now, behold, I go unto my people. Come, I will give 
thee counsel what thou shouldst do; and will show thee 
what this people will do unto thy people at the end of 
the days. And he took up his parable, and said : 

Bileam, the son of Beor, speaketh, 

The man who saw the Beautiful speaketh, 

He speaks who heard the Word from before God, 

And who knoweth knowledge from the Most High, 

Who saw the vision of the Almizhty, prostrate when 

he saw. 

I see him, but not now; 1 behold him, but not nigh. 

When a king shall arise out of Jakob, 


310 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


And the Meshiha be anointed from Israel, 
He will slay the princes of Moab, and reign over all 
the children of men ; 

And Edom shall be an inheritance, 

And Scir a possession of his adversaries ; 

But Israel shall prosper in riches. 

One will descend from the house of Jakeb, 

Who will destroy him that escapeth from the city of 

the peoples. 

And he looked on the Amalkaah, and took up his 
parable, and said: 

Amalek was the beginning of the wars of Israel, 

But in his end he shall perish for ever. 
And he beheld the Shalmaah, and 1008 up his parable, 
and said : 

Strong is the house of thy dwelling, 

And in a strong fortress thou hast set thy abode ; 

But yet Shalmaah shall be destroved, 

For Athuria will make thee captive. 
And he took up his parable, and said : 

Woe to the wicked who may live when God doeth this ! 

And ships will come from טג‎ 

And afflict Athur, and subdue beyond the Phrat ; 

But they also shall perish for ever. 
And Bileam arose, and went and returned to his place ; 
and Balak also went upon his way. 

But Israel abode in Shittin; and the people‏ .אאא 
began to commit whoredom with the daughters of Moab ;‏ 
and they invited the people to the sacrifices of their‏ 
idols, and the people did eat and bowed down to their‏ 
idols. And Israel was joined unto Baala Pheor, and‏ 
the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. And‏ 
the Lord said unto Mosheh: Take all the chiefs of the‏ 


? Syriac: ‘And the legions shall come ferth from the land of the 
Kittoyee.” Sce the Palestinian Targum. 


XXV.] ON NUMBERS. 1 


people, and judge, and slay him who is guilty of death 
before the Lord, over against the sun, that the fierce 
anger of the Lord may be turned away from Israel. 
And Mosheh said to the judges of Israel: Slay every 
man his men who have joined themselves to Baala 
Pheor. 

And, behold,a man of the sons of Israel came and 
brought to his brethren a Midianitha, in the eyes of 
Mosheh, and in the eyes of all the congregation of the 
children of Israel, who were weeping at the door of the 
tabernacle of ordinance. And Phinehas bar Elazar bar 
Aharon the priest saw, and arose from the midst of the 
congregation, and took a lance in his hand; and he 
went in after the man, the son of Israel, into the tent, and 
thrust both of them through, the man, the son of Israel, 
and the woman, through her belly ; and the pestilence was 
staved from the children of Israel. But they who had 
died by the pestilence were twenty and four thousand. 


SECTION XLI. 
PHINEHAS. 


the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Phinehas‏ עצב 
the son of Elazar, the son of Aharon, the priest, hath‏ 
turned away My anger from the children of Israel, in‏ 
that he was zealous with My zeal among them; and I‏ 
have not consumed the children of Israel in My jealousy.‏ 
Say therefore to him (that), behold, I decree unto him‏ 
My covenant of peace; and he shall have it and his‏ 
sons after him; a covenant of priesthood for ever,‏ 
because he hath been zealous before his God, and hath‏ 
propitiated for the children of Isracl.‏ 


512 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


And the name of the man of Israel who was slain 
with the Midianitess was Zimri bar Salu, a chief .of the 
house of lis fathers of the house of Shemeon; and the 
name of the woman, the Midianitess, was Kosbé, the 
daughter of Zur, who was chief of the people of his 
father’s house in Midian. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saving: Punish 
the Midianites and slay them, for thev afilict you with 
their snares, with which they ensnare you; as by the 
occasion of Pheor, and by that of NKosu¢, daughter of a 
prince of Midian, their sister, who was slain on the day 
of the pestilence in the matter of Pheor. 

XXVI. And it came to pass aiter the plague, that 
the Lord spake to Mosheh and to Elazar bar Aharon 
the priest, saying: Take the account of all the congre- 
gation of the sons of Israel, irom a son of twenty years 
and upwards by the house of their fathers, every one 
that goeth out with the host in Israel. And Mosieh 
and Hlazar the priest spake with them, and directed to 
number them in the plains of Moab, by the Jordan 
(over against) Jevicho, saying: From a son of twenty 
years aud upward, as the Lord commanded Mosheh, 
and the sons of Israel who went forth from the land of 
Mizraim. 

Reuben, the first-born of Israel: the sons of Reuben, 
Hanok, the family of Hanc!:; Phallu, and the family of 
Phallu; of Hezron, the family of Hezron; of Karmi, 
the family of Karmi. These are the families of Reuben, 
and they who were numbered of them were forty-three 
thousand seven hundred and thirty. And of the sons 
of Phallu, Eliab ; and the sons of Ehtab, Nemuel, and 
Dathan, and Abiram: these are Dathan and Abiram 
who called the congregation that gathered against 
Mosheh and Aharon in the congregation of Korach, in 
their gathering against the Lord, when the earth opened 


XXVI.] ON NUMBERS. 313 


her mouth and swallowed them with Korach, and the 
congregation died, being devoured by the fire, two 
hundred and fifty men; and they became a sign; but 
the sons of Korach died not. 

The sons of Shimeon by their families: of Neinuel, 
the family of Nemuel; of Jamin, the family of Jamin ; 
of Zerach, the family of Zerach; of Shaul, the family of 
Shaul. These are the families of Shemeon, twenty-two 
thousand two hundred. The sons of Gad after their 
families ; of Zephon, the family of Zephon; of Hagei, 
the family of Haggi; of Shumi, the family of Shumi; 
of Aggi, the family of Aggi; of Ozni, the family of 
Ozni; of Heri, the family of Heri; of Arod, the family 
of the Arodi; of Areli, the family of Areli. These are the 
families of the Beni Gad, the number of whom was forty 
thousand five hundred. 

Of the sons of Jehudah, Her and Onan: but Her 
and Onan died in the land of Kenaan; of the sons of 
Jehudah after their families: of Shelah, the family of 
Shelah ; of Pherez, the family of Pherez; of Zerach, the 
family of Zerach. Of the sons of Pherez: of Hezron, the 
family of Hezron; of Hamul, the family of Hamul. 
These are the families of Jehudah; the number of them 
seventy-six thousand five hundred. 

The sons of Issakar by their families: Tola, the family 
of Tola; of Phua, the family of the Phuni; of Jasub, 
the family of Jasub ; of Shimron, the family of Shimron. 
These are the families of Issakar; their number sixty- 
four thousand three hundred. 

The sons of Zebulon by their families: of Sared, the 
family of Sared; of Elon, the family of Elon; of 
Jahleel, the family of Jahleel. These are the families of 
Zebulon, by their number sixty thousand five hundred. 

The sons of Joseph by their families, Menasheh and 
Ephraim, the sons of Menasheh: of Makir, the family of 

P 


4 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


Makir; and Makir begat Gilead; of Gilead, the family 
of Gilead. These are the children of Gilead: of Jezar, 
the family of Jezar; of Helek, the family of Helek ; and 
of Asriel, the family of Asrieli; and of Shekem, the 
family of Shekem ; and of Shemida, the family of She- 
mida; and of Hepher, the family of Hepher. And 
Zelophechad? bar Hepher had no sons, but daughters ; 
and the names of the daughters of Zelophechad were 
Mahelah, and Nohah, Hegelah, Milchah, and Thirzah. 
These are the families of Menasheh, and their number 
‘ifty-two thousand seven hundred. 

These are the sons of Ephraim by their families : of 
Shuthelah, the family of Shuthelah ; of Bekir, the family 
of Bekir; of Tachan, the family of Tachan. And these 
are the sons of Shuthelah: of Heran,the family of Heran. 
These are the families of the Beni-Ephraim, the number 
of whom was thirty-two thousand five hundred. These 
are the sons of Joseph by their families. 

The sons of Benjamin by their families: of Bela, the 
family of Bela; of Ashbal, the family of Ashbal; of 
Ahiram, the family of Ahiram ; of Shefuphim, the family 
of Shefuphim; of Hupham, the family of Hupham. 
And the sons of Bela, Arede and Naaman ; the family 
of the Aredi; and of Naaman, the family of Naaman. 
These are the sons of Benjamin after their families, and 
their number forty-five thousand six hundred. 

These are the children of Dan, after their families : 
of Shuham, the families of Shuham. These are the 
families of Dan after their families, and the number of the 
families of Shuham sixty-four thousand four hundred. 

The sons of Asher, after their families: of Jimna, the 
families of Jimna; of Jeshvi, the families of Jeshvi; of 
Beriah, the family of Beriah. Of the sons of Beriah: 
of Heber, the family of Heber; of Malkiel, the family 

? Or, Zelophchad. 


XXVI.] ON NUMBERS. 315 


of Malkiel. But the name of the daughter of Asher 
was Sarach. These are the families of the Beni Asher, 
by their number fifty-three thousand four hundred. 

The sons of Naphtali, after their families: of Jah- 
2101, the families of Jahziel; of Gunni, the families of 
Gunni; of Jezer, the family of Jezer; of Shelem, the 
family of Shelem. These are the families of Naphtali 
by their families, and their number forty-five thousand 
four hundred. 

These were the numbered of the sons of Israel, six 
hundred and one thousand seven hundred and thirty. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Unto 
these thou shalt divide the land for a possession, accord- 
ing to the number of their names. To the many thou 
shalt make large their possession, and to the few thou 
shalt make their possession small; to each according to 
his number shalt thou give his inheritance. Neverthe- 
less the land shall be divided by lot, according to the 
names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit. 
By the lot shall their inheritance be divided among the 
many and the few. 

And these are the sons of Levi, after their families : 
of Gershon, the families of Gershon; of Kehath, the 
family of Kehath; of Merari, the families of Merari. 
These are the families of Levi: the family of Libni, the 
family of Hebron, the family of Machli, the family 
of Mushi, the family of Korach. And Kehath begat 
Amram. And the name of Amram’s wife was Jokebed, 
a daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi, in Mizraim ; 
and she bare unto Amram Aharon, and Mosheh, and 
Miriam their sister. And unto Aharon were born Nadab 
and Abihu, Elazar and Ithamar. But Nadab and Abihu 
died in their offering strange fire before the Lord. And 
the numbered of them were twenty-three thousand of all 
the males from a month old and upwards: for they were 

PB 2 


516 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHar, 


not numbered among the children of Isracl, because no 
possession was givento them among the children of Israel. 

These (are they whom) Mosheh and Elazar the priest 
numbered of the sons of Israel, in the plains of Moab, 
by Jordan, (over against) Jericho. Dut among these 
there was not a man of them whom Mosheh and Aharon 
the pricst numbered when they counted the children of 
Israel in the wilderness of Sinai. For the Lord had 
said to them that dying they should die in the wilder- 
ness; and not aman of them remained, except Kaleb 
bar Jephuneh and Jehoshua bar Nun. 

AXVII. And the daughters of Zelophechad bar 
Hepher, bar Gilead, bar Makir, bar Menasheh, of the 
families of Menasheh, bar Joseph,—and these are the 
names 01 hisdaughters, Mahelah, Nohah, and Hegelah,and 
Milchah, and Thirzah,—came and stood before Mosheh 
and Elazar the priest, and before tie princes, and all the 
congregation, at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, 
saving: Our father died in the wilderness; but he was 
not among the company which gathered against the 
Lord in the congregation of Korach, but died through 
his (own) sin; and he had no sons. Why should the 
name of our father be taken away from among his 
kindred, because he had no son? Give us an inheri- 
tance among the brethren of our father. 

And Mosheh brought their cause before the Lord. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: The daughters 
of Zelophechad have spoken properly. Give thou to them 
the possession of an inheritance among the brethren of 
their father, and transfer to them their father’s inherit- 
ance. And speak with the children of Israel, saying : 
If a man die, having no son, you shall make over his 
inheritance to his daughter ; and if he have no daughter, 
you shall give his inheritance to his brethren; but if 
he have no brothers, you shall give his inheritance to 


ON NUMBERS. 317‏ [,זזקוצצ 


the brethren of his father; and if his father have no 
brothers, then shall you give his inheritance to his 
relative who is next (of kin) to him of his family, and 
he shall inherit it. And this shall be to the children of 
Israel for a decree of judgment, as the Lord hath com- 
manded Mosheh. 

And the Lord said unto Mosheh, Go up to this 
mountain of the Abaraee, and see the land which 1 have 
given to the children of Israel; and thou shalt see it, 
and be gathered to thy people, thou also, as Aharon 
thy brother was gathered. As ye rebelled against My 
Word in the desert of Zin, in the strife of the congre- 
gation, to sanctify Me at the waters before their eyes: 
these are the waters of strife, at Rekem, in the desert of 
Zin. 

And Mosheh spake before the Lord, saying: Let the 
Lord, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint 2 man 
over the congregation who may go out and go in before 
them, and mav lead them out and bring them in; that 
this congregation may not be as a flock which hath no 
shepherd. And the Lord said to Mosheh, Take to thee 
Jehoshua bar Nun, a man in whom is the spirit of pro- 
phecy, and lay thy hand upon him. And make him 
stand before Elazar the priest, and before all the congre- 
gation, and give him charge in their sight. And thou 
shalt confer some of thy honour upon him, that all the 
congregation of the children of Israel may obey him. 
And he shall stand before Elazar the priest, that he may 
ask (counsel) for him by the judgment of Uraia before 
the Lord: upon his word shall they go out, and upon his 
word shall they come in, he and all the sons of Israel 
with him, even all the congregation. 

And Mosheh did as the Lord commanded him, and 
took Jehoshua, and made him to stand before Elazar the 
priest, and all the congregation ; and he laid his hands 


318 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


upon him, and gave him charge, as the Lord spake by 
Mosheh. 

XXVIII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Instruct the children of Israel, and say to them: My 
oblation, the ordained bread for My oblations to be 
received with acceptance, shall you observe to offer in 
its time. And thou shalt say to them: This is the 
oblation which you shall offer before the Lord; two 
lambs of the year unblemished daily, for a perpetual 
burnt offering. The one lamb shalt thou perform in the 
morning, and the second lamb between the suns. And 
with one tenth of three seahs of flour for the mincha 
sprinkled with the fourth of a hin of beaten oil. It is 
a perpetual burnt offering, which was made in the 
mountain of Sinai, to be received with acceptance (as) 
an oblation before the Lord. And its libation shall be 
the fourth of a hin for each lamb; in the sanctuary 
shall the libation of old wine be poured out before the 
Lord. And the second lamb shalt thou perform between 
the suns, as the morning offering; and thou shalt make 
its libation (in like manner) an oblation to be received 
with acceptance before the Lord. 

But on the Sabbath day two lambs of the year un- 
blemished, and two tenths of flour for the mincha 
sprinkled with oil, and its libation. It is the Sabbath 
burnt offering which shall be performed on the Sabbath, 
together with the perpetual burnt offering and its 
libation. 

And in the beginnings of your months you shall offer 
a burnt offering before the Lord; two young bullocks, 
and one ram, lambs of the year, seven, unblemished. 
And three tenths of flour sprinkled with oil for each 
bullock, and two tenths of flour for a mincha sprinkled 
with oil for the one ram, and a tenth of flour for a 
mincha sprinkled with oil for each lamb: it isa burnt 


XXVIII ] ON NUMBERS. 1% 


offering to be received with acceptance as an oblation 
before the Lord. And their libations a half hina of 
wine shall be for the bullock, and the third of a hina 
for the ram, and a quarter of a hina for a lamb: this is 
the burnt offering for the beginning of the month, at its 
renewal; so shall it be for all the beginnings of the 
months of the year. And one kid of the goats for a 
sin offering before the Lord, beside the perpetual burnt 
offering, shalt thou make with its libation. 

And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the 
month, is the Pascha before the Lord. And on the 
fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days you 
shall eat unleavened (bread). On the first day shall be 
a holy convocation; you shall not do any servile work ; 
but offer the oblation of a burnt offering before the 
Lord; two young bullocks and one ram, and seven 
lambs of the year without blemish shall you have; and 
their mincha of flour mingled with oil, three tenths for 
the bullock and two tenths for the ram you shall make; 
a tenth shall you make for one lamb, so for the seven 
lambs. And one goat for a sin offering to make atone- 
ment for you; besides the burnt sacrifice of the morning 
which is the perpetual burnt sacrifice, you shall make 
these. After the manner of these you shall do by the 
day for seven days; it is the bread of the oblation 
to be received with acceptance before the Lord; (with) 
the perpetual burnt offering and its libation shall it be 
made. And on the seventh day there shall be a holy 
convocation, (when) you may do no servile work. 

But on the day of the First Fruits, when you bring the 
new thank offering before the Lord in your expletion,? 
there shall be a holy convocation; no servile work 


3 Beatsrathekun. Qu., ‘“‘ When your time of threshing and wine- 
making is out.” Heb. text, Beshabuothekem, rendered by Mendels- 
sohn, “ ean eure Wochen zu ende sind,” 


320 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


shall you do, but offer a burnt offering to be received 
with favour before the Lord; two young bullocks, one 
ram, seven lambs of the year; and their mincha of flour 
mingled with oil, three tenths for one bullock, two tenths 
for the ram, a tenth for each lamb of the seven lambs; 
one kid of the goats to make an atonement for you; 
beside the perpetual burnt sacrifice and its mincha you 
shall (make) them unblemished, and their libations. 

XXIX. And in the seventh month, on the first of the 
month, you shall have a holy convocation, and do no 
servile work ; it shall be a day of the sounding of the 
trumpet to you. And you shall make a burnt “sacrifice 
to be received with favour before the Lord: one young 
bullock, one ram, lambs of the year seven, unblemished, 
and their mincha of flour mingled with oil, three tenths 
for the bullock, two tenths fr the ram, and one tenth 
for each of the seven lambs; and one kid of the goats 
for a sin offering to make an atonement for you; beside 
the offering of the month, and its mincha, and the per- 
petual sacrifice and its mincha, and their libations, as 
proper for them, to be received with favour, an oblation 
before the Lord. 

And on the tenth of this seventh month you shall 
have a holy convocation, and afflict your souls; + you 
shall do no labour, but offer a burnt offering before the 
Lord to be received with favour: one young bullock, 
one ram, lambs of the year seven, unblemished shall you 
have ; and their mincha of flour mingled with oil; three 
tenths for the bullock, two tenths for the ram, and a 
single tenth for each of the seven lambs; one kid of the 
goats for a sin offering, beside the sin offering of the 
expiations,® and the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and 
their libations. 

And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month you 
* Sam. Vers., * You shall fast.” 5 This being the day of atonement. 


ON NUMBERS. B21‏ (.צזצצ 


shall have a holy convocation ; no servile labour shall 
you do, but celebrate a festival before the Lord seven 
days; and offer a burnt sacrifice, an oblation to be 
received with favour before the Lord; thirteen young 
bullocks, two rams, lambs of the year fourteen, un- 
blemished shall they be; and their mincha of flour 
mingled with oil, three tenths to one bullock for the 
thirteen bullocks, two tenths for each ram, and one 
tenth for each of the fourteen lambs, and one kid of the 
goats for a sin offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice, its 
mincha and libation. 

And on the second day you shall offer twelve young 
bullocks, two rams, fourteen unblemished lambs of the 
year, and the minchas and libations for the bullocks, 
for the rams and the lambs, as is proper for their number ; 
and one kid of the goats, a sin offering, beside the per- 
petual sacrifice, its mincha and libation. 

And on the third day eleven bullocks, two rams, 
fourteen unblemished lambs of the year; and their 
minchas and libations for the bullocks, the rams, and 
the lambs, as befitteth their number; and one kid fora 
sin offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and 
hibation. 

On the fourth day ten bullocks, two rams, lambs of 
the year unblemished fourteen ; their minchas and liba- 
tions for the bullocks, rams, and lambs by their number, 
as it is proper; and one kid of the goats for a sin offer- 
ing, beside the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and 
libation. 

And on the fifth day nine bullocks, two rams, lambs 
of the year unblemished fourteen ; the minchas and liba- 
tions for the bullocks,rams, and lambs after their number, 
as it is proper; and one kid for a sin offering, beside 
the perpetual sacrifice and its libation. 

2 5 


322 TARGUM OF ONKELOS {cuap. 


And on the sixth day eight bullocks, two rams, lambs 
of the year unblemished fourteen ; the minchas and liba- 
tions for the bullocks, rams, and lambs by their number, 
as is proper; and one kid for the sin offering, beside 
the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and libation. 

And on the seventh day seven bullocks, two rams, 
fourteen lambs of the year unblemished ; the minchas 
and libations for the bullocks, rams, and lambs by their 
number, as is proper; and one kid for the sin offering, 
beside the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and libation. 

On the eighth day you shall have an assembly ; 
no servile work shall you do, but offer a sacrifice, an 
oblation to be received with favour before the Lord; one 
bullock, one ram, seven lambs of the year unblemished ; 
the minchas and libations for the bullock, the ram, and 
the lambs, as proper, according to their number; and 
one kid for a sin offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice, 
its mincha and libation. 

These shall you offer before the Lord in your solem- 
nities, beside your vows and your free-will offerings with 
your burnt sacrifices, their minchas and their libations, 
and with your sanctified victims. XXX. And Mosheh 
spake to the sons of Israel according to all that the 
Lord commanded Mosheh. 


SECTION XLII. 
MATTOTH. 


AnD Mosheh spake with the heads of the tribes of the 
Beni Israel, saying: This is the word which the Lord 
hath commanded: When a man shall make a vow before 
the Lord, or swear an oath to bind a bond upon his 
soul, he shall not make void his word; according to all 


XXX. | ON NUMBERS. 823 


that hath come out of his mouth he shall perform. And 
if a woman make a vow before the Lord, and bind (her- 
self) with a bond in her father’s house, (being) in her 
youth, and her father shall hear her vow, and the obli- 
gation-she hath bound upon her soul, and her father be 
silent to her, then all her vows shall stand, and every 
bond that she hath bound upon her soul shall be con- 
firmed. But if her father prohibit (or undo) them on 
the day that he heareth, all the vows and the bonds 
that she hath bound upon her soul shall not stand, and 
she shall be forgiven before the Lord, because her father 
undid them. And if she hath a husband, and taketh a 
vow upon her, or if her lips pronounce that which becom- 
eth binding upon her soul, and her husband heard and 
was silent to her on the day that he heard, her vows shall 
stand, and the obligation she hath bound upon her soul 
be confirmed: but if her husband on the day that he 
heareth shall prohibit them, the vows which are on her 
and the utterance of her lips which became binding 
on her soul shall be void, and be forgiven her before the 
Lord. 

But every vow of the widow, or of one divorced, 
which she hath bound upon her soul, shall be confirmed 
upon her. And if (while in her husband’s house) she 
had vowed, or had bound aught upon her soul with an 
oath, and her husband heard and was silent to her, and 
did not prohibit them, all her vows shall be confirmed, 
every bond with which she hath bound her soul shall 
be confirmed. But if indeed her husband shall make 
them void in the day that he heard, that which her lips 
expressed in her vow and in the binding of her soul shall 
not be confirmed; her husband hath made them void, 
and she shall be absolved before the Lord. Every vow 
and every covenant (oath) to chastise the soul, her hus- 
band may confirm it, or her husband may make it void. 


4 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


But if her husband was entirely silent to her from day 
to day, then he hath confirmed all her vows, or what- 
ever bonds (she taketh) upon her, he confirmeth them, 
because he was silent to her on the day that he heard. 
But if he shall indeed make them void after (the day 
that) he had heard, then he shall bear her sin. These 
are the statutes which the Lord commanded Mosheh 
between a man and his wife, (and) between a father and 
his daughter, in her youth in her father’s house. 

XXXI. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Avenge the children of Israel of the Midianites; after- 
ward thou shalt be gathered to thy people. And 
Mosheh spake with the people, saying: Arm, of you, 
men for the host against Midian, to avenge this people 
of the Lord upon Midian: a thousand of a tribe, a 
thousand of a tribe, of all the tribes of Israel shall you 
send to the host. 

And from the thousands of Israel there were chosen 
a thousand of a tribe, twelve thousaud armed for the 
host. And Mosheh sent them one thousand of a tribe 
to array them, and Phinehas bar Elazar the priest, with 
the host, and the holy vessels, and the Jubela trumpets 
in his hand. And the host gathered against Midian, as 
the Lord had commanded Mosheh ; and they slaughtered 
every male. But the kings of Midian they killed with 
their slain, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Chur, and 
Reba, five kings of Midian, and Bileam bar Beor, they 
killed with the sword. And the sons of Israel took the 
women of Midian captives, with their children and all 
their cattle, and all their flocks and all their goods they 
despoiled. And all their cities where they dwelt, and 
their houses of worship, they burned with fire. And 
they took all the spoil, and all the prey of man and of 
cattle, and brought the captives, and the prey, and the 
spoil, to Moshel, and to Elazar the priest, and to all the 


XXXL] ON NUMBERS. 325 


congregation of the Beni Israel, to the camp in the 
fields of Moab, by the Jordan, over against Jericho. 

And Mosheh and Elazar the priest and all the princes 
of the congregation went out to meet them, without the 
camp. But Mosheh was angry with those who had 
been appointed over the host, the captains of thousands 
and the captains of hundreds, who came from the battle. 
And Mosheh said to them, Have you spared every 
woman? Behold, these it was (who caused) the sons of 
Israel, through the counsel of Bileam, to do wickedly 
before the Lord in the matter of Peor, and the plague 
came upon the congregation of the Lord. But now, 
slay every male among the children, and every woman 
who bath known a man you shall slay. But all the 
females who have not known a man ye may preserve 
alive unto you. Aud you, abide without the camp seven 
days; whoever have destroyed life or touched the dead, 
sprinkle yourselves on the third day, and on the seventh 
day yourselves and your captives. And every garment, 
and whatever is made of skin, and every work of goat’s 
hair, and every vessel of wood you shall sprinkle. 

And Elazar the priest said to the men of war who 
came from the battle, This is the decree of the law which 
the Lord hath commanded Mosheh: Only the gold, and 
the silver, the brass, iron, tin, and lead, everything that 
can abide in the fire, you shall make to go through fire, 
and it shall be clean; nevertheless it shall be sprinkled 
with the water of sprinkling; and whatever may not 
abide the fire you shall make to pass through water. 
And cleanse your garments on the seventh day; purity 
yourselves, and afterwards come into the camp. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Take the 
account of the spoil of the captives, man and beast ; 
thou, Elazar the priest, and the chief fathers of the 
congregation. And ‘divide the spoil among the men 


326 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


who fought the battle, who went forth in the host, and 
among all the congregation: and separate a portion 
before the Lord from (that of) the men who fought the 
battle, who went forth in the host, one living thing in 
five hundred, of man and beast, oxen, asses, and sheep. 
Take it of their half, and give it to Elazar the priest, 
for a separation before the Lord. And of the half (be- 
longing) to the children of Israel, take one of every fifty, 
of man, of oxen, sheep, and all cattle, and give them to 
the Levites who keep charge of the tabernacle of the 
Lord. 

And Mosheh and Elazar the priest did as the Lord 
commanded Mosheh; and the booty, the rest of the prey 
which the people who went forth to the war had taken, 
was, sheep six hundred and seventy-five thousand, oxen 
seventy-two thousand, asses sixty-one thousand, persons, 
women who had not known man, every soul thirty-two 
thousand. And the half portion of the men who had 
gone out to the war, the number was, sheep three hun- 
dred and thirty-seven thousand five hundred; and that 
which was brought up before the Lord, of the sheep 
six hundred and seventy-five; and of the thirty-six 
thousand oxen, the portion brought before the Lord 
seventy-two. And the asses, thirty thousand five hun- 
dred, of which the portion brought before the Lord 
sixty-one. And the persons sixteen thousand, those of 
them brought before the Lord thirty-two persons. And 
Moslieh gave the separation brought up before the Lord 
to Elazar the priest, as the Tord had commanded 
Mosheh. And of the children of Israel’s half, which 
Mosheh divided from (that) of the men who had gone 
out in the host,—and the half part for the congregation 
was, sheep three hundred and thirty-seven thousand 
five hundred, oxen thirty-six thousand, and asses thirty 
thousand five hundred, and persons sixteen thousand : 


XXXII.] ON NUMBERS. 327 


and Mosheh took from the children of Israel’s half one 
portion of fifty of man and beast, and gave them to the 
Levites who kept charge of the Lord’s tabernacle, as 
the Lord had commanded Mosheh. 

And they who had been appointed over the thousands 
of the host, the captains of thousands, and the captains 
of hundreds, came to Mosheh, and said to Mosheh, Thy 
servants have taken the account of the men who went 
forth to the war with us, and there is not wanting one 
man of us. And we bring an oblation before the Lord 
of what each man hath found, vessels of gold, chains, 
bracelets, rings, amulets, and brooches, to make atone- 
ment for our souls before the Lord. And Mosheh and 
Elazar the priest took the gold of them, every fabricated 
vessel. And all the gold of the separation which the 
captains of thousands and of hundreds separated before 
the Lord was sixteen thousand seven hundred and fifty 
shekels ; for the men of the host had taken spoil, every 
man for himself. And Mosheh and Elazar the priest 
took the gold from the captains of thousands and of 
hundreds, and brought it into the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance, a memorial of the sons of Israel before the Lord. 

XXXII. Now the sons of Reuben and the sons of 
Gad possessed much cattle, exceedingly many ; and they 
saw the land of Jazer and the land of Gilead, and, 
behold, the region was a place fit for folds of cattle. 
And the sons of Gad and the sons of Reuben came and 
spake to Mosheh and to Elazar the priest, and to the 
heads of the congregation, saying: Maklelta and Mal- 
basta and the Priests of Beth-Nemrin,® and Beth-Hesh- 
bena, and Baale Debaba, and Seath, (the sepulchre of 
Mosheh,)’ and Beon, the land which the Lord smote 
before the congregation of Israel, is a country fitted for 


6 Kumerin de beth Nemrin. 
7 Seath beth keburta 0606 


328 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHAP. 


nes 


cattle folds, and thy servants have cattle. And they 
said, If we have found grace in thine eyes, let this land 
be given to thy servants for a possession, and let us not 
go over the Jordan. 

But Mosheh said to the sons of Gad and to the sons 
of Reuben, Shall your brethren go in to fight, and you 
sit down here? And why turn you away the heart® of 
the sons of Israel from going over to the land which 
the Lord hath given to them? Thus did your fathers 
when I sent them from Rekem Giah to survey the land. 
They went up to the stream of Ethkela, and saw the 
land, and subverted® the heart of the sons of Israel, that 
they might not go in unto the land that the Lord had 
given to them; and the Lord’s anger was kindled that 
dav, and He sware, saying: If the men who have come 
out of Mizraim, from twenty years old and upward, 
shall see the land which I covenanted to Abraham, to 
Tzhak, and to Jakob; for they have not been wholly 
after my fear. Only Kaleb bar Jephuneh, the Kenezite, 
and Jehoshua bar Nun, for they have been wholly after 
the fear of the Lord. And the Lord’s anger was strong 
against Israel, and he made them linger in the wilder- 
ness forty years, until all the generation that did wickedly 
before the Lord had been consumed. And, behold, you 
have risen up after your fathers, the disciples of the men 
of sin, to add yet to the fierce displeasure of the Lord 
against Israel. For if you turn again from (following) 
after His service, He will yet make you remain in the 
wilderness, and you will destroy all this people. 

And they came near to lim, and said: We will build 
here sheepfolds for our cattle and cities for our families ; 
and we will go forth eagerly, armed, before the sons of 
Israel, to bring them into their place; and our families 


® Syr., “break.” Sam. Vers., “ bring down the heart.” 
5 Syr.. “broke.” 


XXXII] ON NUMBERS. 329 


shall abide in cities defenced against the inhabitants of 
the land: nor will we return to our homes till the sons 
of Israel shall possess every man his inheritance. For 
we will not inherit with them over the Jordan and 
beyond ; for we receive our possession on the eastward 
side of the Jordan. 

And Mosheh said to them: If you will do this; if 
you will go armed before the people of the Lord to war, 
and (a host) of you all armed will pass the Jordan 
before the people of the Lord, until He shall have 
driven out the enemy before Him, and the land have 
been subdued before the Lord’s people, then afterward 
you shall return, and be guiltless before the Lord and 
with Israel, and this land shall be to you for an inherit- 
ance before the Lord. But if you do it not, behold, 
you have sinned before the Lord ; and know, that your 
sin will find you. Build you cities for your families, 
and folds for your sheep, and do that which hath come 
from your mouth. And the tribe of the Beni Gad and 
of the Beni Reuben spake to Mosheh, saying: Thy 
servants will do as my lord commandeth. Our little 
ones, our Wives, our flocks, and all our cattle shall be 
here in the cities of Gilead; but thy servants, a host all 
armed, will pass over before the people of the Lord to 
war, as our lord speaketh. 

And Mosheh commanded concerning them Elazar 
the priest, and Jehoshua bar Nun, and the chief fathers 
of the tribes of the Beni Israel. And Mosheh said to 
them, if the sons of Gad and of Reuben pass over the 
Jordan with you, all armed for war, before the Lord’s 
people, and the land be subdued before you, then shall 
you give them the land of Gilead for a possession. But 
if they go not over armed with you, they shall inherit 
among you in the land of Kenaan. But the sons of 
Gad and of Reuben answered, saving: As the Lord 


330 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


hath spoken to thy servants, so will we do. We will 
pass over armed before the people of the Lord into the 
land of Kenaan, that the possession of our inheritance 
may be on the other side Jordan. And Mosheh gave 
to them, to the sons of Gad, and to the sons of Reuben, 
and to the half tribe of Menasheh bar Joseph, the king- 
dom of Sihon king of the Amoraah, and the kingdom 
of Og the king of Mathanan,! the land with the cities 
thereof in the coasts, (even) the cities of the country 
round about. 

And the sons of Gad built Dibon, and Ataroth, and 
Aroer, and Ataroth Shophan, and Jazer, and Jag- 
beha, and Beth-nimra, and Beth-haran, fenced cities and 
sheepfolds. And the sons of Reuben built Heshbon, and 
Elhala, and Kirjathaim, and Nebo,? and Baal Meon, 
changing their names, and Sibama; and they called by 
their names the names of the cities which they built. 

And the sons of Makir bar Menasheh went unto Gilead, 
and subdued it, and cast out the Amoraah who were in 
it. And Mosheh gave Gilead to Makir bar Menasheh, 
and he dwelt therein. And Jair bar Menasheh went 
and subdued their villages, and called them the villages 
of Jair. And Nobach went and subdued Kenath and 
its villages, and called it Nobach after his name. 





SECTION XLIII. 
MASEY. 
XXNITI. These are the journeys of the Beni Israel 


who went forth from the land of Mizraim in their hosts, 

by the hand of Mosheh and Aharon. And Mosheh 

wrote their goings out, and by their journeys by the 
1 Sam. Vers., “ Batania,”’ 2 Syr., “Jabok and Nobu.” 


ON NUMBERS. 331‏ [.זוזאצצ 


Word of the Lord ; and these are their journeys accord- 
ing to their goings out. 

And they went forth from Ramesis in the first month, 
on the fifteenth day of the first month, after the day of 
the Pascha, the children of Israel went out in full view 
of the eyes of all the Mizraee. And the Mizraee buried 
all the firstborn which the Lord had slain among them, 
and upon their idols had the Lord wrought judgments. 

And the children of Israel proceeded from Ramesis, 
and encamped in Succoth. And they went on from 
Succoth, and encamped in Etham, which is on the side 
of the wilderness. And they removed from Etham, and 
returned upon Pum-Hiratha, before Baal-Zephon, and 
pitched before Migdol. And they departed from Pum- 
Hiratha, and went through the midst of the sea into 
the wilderness, and went, going three days in the 
wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Marah. And they 
removed from Marah, and came to Elim; and in Elim 
were twelve wells of water and seventy palm trees, and 
they encamped there. And they removed from Elim, 
and pitched by the Sea of Suph. And they removed 
from the Sea of Suph, and pitched in the wilderness of 
Sin. And they departed from the wilderness of Sin, 
and pitched in Dapheka; and they removed from 
Dapheka, and encamped in Alush. And they removed 
from Alush, and pitched in Rephidin; and there was 
no water for the people to drink. And they removed 
from Rephidin, and encamped in the wilderness of Sinai. 

And they removed from the wilderness of Sinai, and 
encamped at the Sepulchres of Desire. And they 
removed from the Sepulchres of Desire, and pitched in 
Hazeroth; and they removed from Hazeroth, and 
pitched in Rithema. And they removed from Rithema, 
and pitched in Rimmon-pharez. And they removed 
from Rimmon-pharez, and encamped in Libnah. And 


332 TARGUM OF ONKELOS 0 


they removed from Libnah, and pitched in Resah. And 
they removed from Resah, and pitched in Kehelatha. 
And they removed from Kehelatha, and encamped at 
Mount Shapher. And they removed from Mount 
Shapher, and encamped in Harada. And they removed 
from Harada, and pitched in Makheloth. And they 
removed from Makheloth, and pitchedin Tachath. And 
they removed from Tachath, and pitched in Tharah. 
And they removed from Tharah, and pitched in Mitheka. 
And they removed from Mitheka, and encamped in 
Hashmona. And they removed from Hashmona, and 
pitched in Moseroth. And they removed from Mose- 
roth, and encamped in Beni Jaakan. And_ they 
removed from Beni Jaakan, and pitched at Mount 
Hagidgad. And they removed from Mount Hagidgad, 
and pitched in Jetbatha. And they removed from 
Jetbatha, and pitched in Ebrona. And they removed 
from Ebrona, and pitched in Ezion-Geber. And they 
removed from Ezion-Geber, and encamped in the wil- 
derness of Zin, which is Rekem. And they removed 
from Rekem, and encamped at Mount Hor, on the 
borders of the land of Edom. And Aharon the priest 
went up on Mount Hor by the Word of the Lord, and 
died there in the fortieth year of the outgoing of the 
children of Israel from the land of Mizraim, in the fifth 
month, on the first of the month. And Aharon was a 
son of one hundred and twenty-three years when he 
died on Mount Hor. 

And the Kenaanite, king of Harad, who dwelt in the 
south, in the land of Kenaan, heard of the coming of 
the Beni Israel. 

Aud they removed from Mount Hor, and encamped 
in Zalmona. And they removed from Zalmona, and 
pitched in Phunon. And they removed from Phunon, 
and pitched in Aboth. And they removed from Aboth, 


XXXIV. | ON NUMBERS. 333 


and encamped at the Passing Fords on the border of 
11080. And they removed from the Fords, and pitched 
at Dibon Gad. And they removed from Dibon Gad, 
and pitched in Elmon Diblathaimah. And they removed 
from Elmon Diblathaimah, and pitched at the mountains 
of Abaraee, which are before Nebo. And they removed 
from the mountains of Abarace, and encamped in the 
plains of Moab by Jordan (over against) Jericho. And 
they encamped by the Jordan from Beth Jeshimoth unto 
the vale of Sittin in the fields of Moab. 

and the Lord spake with Mosheh in the fields of 
Moaba by the Jordan (near) Jericho, saying: Speak 
with the sons of Israel, and say to them: When you 
have passed over Jordan to the land of Kenaan, you 
shall cast out all the inhabitants of the land from before 
you, demolish all the houses of their worship, destroy 
all their molten images, and lay waste all their high 
places. And you shall cast out the inhabitants of the 
land, and dwell in it; for I have given vou the land to 
inherit. And you shall possess the land by lot, accord- 
ing to your families; to the many you shall make their 
possession large, and to the few diminish the posses- 
sion: where the lot falleth to any one, there shall he be; 
according to the tribes of your fathers you shall possess. 
But if you will not drive out the inhabitants of the 
country from before you, it will be that those who 
remain of them, combining, will take arms against you, 
and surrounding you with camps they will distress you 
in the land wherein you dwell. And it shall be that 
what [had thought to do unto them, 1 will do unto you. 

XXXIV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Command the sons of Israel, and say to them: When 
you have entered into the land of Kenaan, that land 
which shall be divided to you for a possession, the land 
of Kenaan by its coasts, then your south border shall 


BEY TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHap. 


be from the wilderness of Zin on the frontier of Edom, 
and your south border shall be from the extremities of 
the Sea of Salt eastward. 

And your border shall turn from the south to the 
going up of Akrabbim, and shall pass over to Zin ; and the 
going out of it shall be from the south unto Rekem 
Giah, and go on to Hazar-Adar, and pass over to 
Azemon. 

And the border shall turn from Azemon to the 
stream of Mizraim, and its goings out shall be toward 
the west, (Heb., the sea,) and for the western border 
you shall have the Great Sea; this shall be your 
western border. 

And this shall be your northern border: from the 
Great Sea you shall appoint for you Mount Hor; from 
Mount Hor you shall appoint to the entrance of 
Hamath, and the goings forth of the border shall be 
unto Zedad. And the border shall be unto Zaphron, 
and its goings forth to Kzarenan; this shall be your 
north border. 

And you shall appoint your eastern border from Ezar- 
enan to Shepham ; 5 and the border shall go down from 
Shepham unto Riblah, eastward of the fountain, and the 
border shall go down and come to the bank of the Sea of 
Genesar on the east. And the border shall go down to 
the Jordan, and its going out be at the Sea of Salt. 
This shall be your land with its confines round about. 

And Mosheh commanded the sons of Israel, saying : 
This shall be the land which you are to possess by lot, 
which the Lord hath commanded to give to the nine 
tribes and to the half tribe. For the tribe of the Beni 
Reuben by the house of their fathers, and the tribe of 
the Beni Gad by the house of their fathers, and the 
half tribe of Menasheh, have received their inheritance. 


3 Sam. Vers., ‘‘ Apamea.” 


ON NUMBERS. 335‏ | .טאאא 


The two tribes and the half tribe have received their in- 
heritance across the Jordan by Jericho towards the east. 

Aud the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: These 
are the names of the men who shall apportion the land 
to you: Elazar the priest, and Jehoshua bar Nun. 
And you shall take of each tribe one prince to appor- 
tion the land, and these are the names of the men: of 
the tribe of Jehudah, Kaleb bar Jephuneh; of the 
tribe of the Beni Shemeon, Shemuel bar Ammihud; of 
the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad bar Kiselon; of the tribe 
of the Beni Dan, Rabba Bokki bar Jagli; of the 
Beni Joseph, of the tribe of the Beni Menasheh, 
Rabba Haniel bar Ephod; of the tribe of the Beni 
Ephraim, Rabba Kemuel bar Shiphtan; of the tribe of 
the Beni Zebulon, Rabba Elizaphan bar Parnak; of the 
tribe of the Beni Issakar, Rabba Peltiel bar Ezar; and 
of that of the Beni Asher, Rabba Ahihad bar Shelomi ; 
and of that of the Beni Naphtali, Rabba Phadael bar 
Ammihud. These are they whom the Lord com- 
manded to divide the inheritance of the children of 
Israel in the land of Kenaan. 

XXXV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh in the 
plains of Moab, on the Jordan-Jericho, saying : Com- 
mand the sons of Israel that they give to the Levites of 
the inheritance of their possession cities to inhabit, and 
a space (suburb) with the cities round about shall they 
give to the Levites. And the cities they shall have to 
inhabit, and their spaces, shall be for their cattle, and 
for their possessions, and for all their animals. And the 
spaces of the cities which you give to the Levites (shall 
extend) from the wall of the city outward, a thousand 
cubits round about. And you shall measure without 
the city, on the east side* two thousand cubits, and on 


4 «The suburbs of the cities are said in the law to be three thousand 
cubits on every side, from the wall of the city and outwards. The first 


336 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


the south side two thousand cubits, and on the west 
side two thousand cubits, and on the north side two 
thousand cubits, and the city in the midst; this shall 
be for you the spaces of the cities. 

And (of) the cities which you give to the Levites, six 
shall be cities of refuge, which you shall appoint for the 
(man) slayer 5 to flee thereunto, and to them you shall 
add forty-two cities. All the cities that you give to 
the Levites shall be forty-eight cities, they and their 
suburbs. And the cities that you give shall be of the 
inheritance of the Beni Israel; of those who have many 
you shall give many, and of the few you shall give few ; 
each according to his possession he inherits shall he 
give of his cities to the Levites. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with the sons of Israel, and say to them: When you 
have passed the Jordan to the land of Kenaan, then 
shall you appoint to you cities, cities of refuge shall 
they be for you, that the slayer who hath killed a life 
unawares may flee thither. And they shall be for you 
cities of refuge from the avenger of blood, that the 
slayer may not die until he hath stood before the con- 
gregation for judgment. And of those cities that you 
give you shall have six cities of refuge: three cities you 
shall give beyond Jordan, and three cities in the land 
of Kenaan; cities of refuge shall they be. For the 
sons of Israel, and for the sojourner among you, there 
shall be these six cities of refuge, that thither may tlee 
every one who hath slain a person unawares. 

But if he hath smitten him with a weapon of iron and 
killed him, he is a murderer; and the murderer is to be 


thousand cubits are the suburbs, and the two thousand which they 
measured without the suburbs were jor fields and vineyards,”’—Mat- 
MONIDES. 

5 Syr., “who hath killed his neighbour without willing it.” 


XXXYV.] ON NUMBERS. 337 


surely put to death. Or, if with a stone which he 
carried in his hand, that he who was struck with it 
should die, he who killed him is a murderer, and the 
murderer is to be surely put to death. Or, if with a 
weapon of wood which he carried in his hand that he 
who was struck with it might die, and he killeth him, he 
is a murderer, and the murderer shall be verily put to 
death. The avenger of blood himself shall kill the 
murderer, when condemned by the judgment he shall kill 
him. And if he smote him in enmity, or threw at him 
in concealment and killed him, or in enmity smote him 
with his hand and killed him, the smiter is a murderer, 
he shall be surely put to death: the avenger of blood 
shall slay the slayer when he is condemned. 

But if he have struck him suddenly without enmity, or 
have thrown anything upon him without lying in wait 
for him, or struck him with a stone sufficient to kill 
him, but cast it upon him without seeing, and have killed 
him without hating him or seeking to do him evil, then 
the congregation shall judge between the smiter and the 
avenger of blood, according to these judgments. And 
the congregation shall deliver the slayer from the 
avenger of blood, and return him to the city of his refuge 
to which he had fled, and he shall dwell in it until the death 
of the high priest who was anointed with the holy oil. 

But if the slayer shall come out of the boundary of 
the city of his retreat to which he hath fled, and the 
avenger of blood find him outside of the bounds of the 
city of his retreat, and the avenger of blood slay the 
slayer, he shall not be guilty of blood. Because he 
should have abode within the city of his retreat until 
the death of the high priest: but after the death of the 
high priest the slayer may return to the land of his in- 
heritance. 

And these shall be to you a decree of judgment for 


0 


338 TARGUM OF ONKELOS. [cHap. 


your generations in all your dwellings. Whosoever 
killeth a person shail die, by the mouth of witnesses ; 
but one witness shall not testify against a man to put 
(him) to death. Neither may you take money on account 
of a manslayer who is guilty of death, for dying he shall 
die. Nor may you take money for him who hath fled to 
his city of refuge, so that he may return to dwell in the 
land till the high priest shall die. But you shall not 
make guilty the land in which you are; for blood 
maketh the land guilty; and the land is not expiated 
for innocent blood that is shed therein but by the blood 
of him who shed it. Defile not then the land in which 
you dwell, for My Shekinah dwelleth in the midst of it; 
for I, the Lord, by My Shekinah dwell among the chil- 
dren of Israel. 

XXXVI. And the chief fathers of the families of the 
Beni Gilead, bar Makir, bar Menasheh, of the family of 
the Beni Joseph, came and spake before Mosheh, the 
princes and chief fathers of the Beni Israel, and said: 
The Lord commanded Rabboni to give the land an 
inheritance by lot to the children of Israel; and Rabboni 
was commanded by the Word of the Lord to give the’ 
inheritance of Zelophechad our brother to his daughters. 
But if they become wives to any of the sons of the 
(other) tribes of the Beni Israel, then will their inherit- 
ance be taken away from the inheritance of our fathers, 
and added to the inheritance of the tribe which will 
have become theirs, and be (thus) diminished from the 
portion of our inheritance. And when the Jubela of 
the children of Israel come, their inheritance will be 
added to the possession of the tribe that hath become 
theirs, and our possession will pass away from the inherit- 
ance of our father’s tribe. 

And Mosheh commanded the sons of Israel by the 
Word of the Lord, saying: The tribe of the sons of 


XXXVI. ] ON NUMBERS. 389 


Joseph have spoken well. This is the thing which the 
Lord hath commanded for the daughters of Zelophechad, 
saying: Let them become the wives of those who are 
proper in their eyes, only of (men) of their father’s 
tribe may they become wives. And the inheritance of 
the children of Israel shall not turn from tribe to tribe ; 
for every man of the Beni Israel shall keep himself to 
the inheritance of his father’s tribe. 

And every daughter inheriting a possession (in one) 
of the tribes of the children of Israel shall be wife of one 
of the families of her father’s tribe: that the sons of 
Israel may each man inherit the possession of his fathers. 
And the inheritance shall not pass from one tribe to 
another tribe, but every one of the tribes of the Beni 
Israel shall keep to its own inheritance. 

As the Lord commanded Mosheh, so did the daughters 
of Zelophechad: and Maalah, and Thirzah, and Hegela, 
and Milchah, and Nohah, the daughters of Zelophechad, 
became wives of sons of their father’s brethren. They 
were married into the family of the Beni Menasheh bar 
Joseph, and their inheritance (remained) with the tribe 
of their father’s family. 

These are the commandments and judgments which 
the Lord commanded by the hand of Mosheh to the 
children of Israel, in the plains of Moab, by Jordan, near 
Jericho. 


END OF THE TARGUM OF ONKELOS ON THE 
SEPHER BEMIDBAR. 


THE PALESTINIAN TARGUM 


ON 


THE BOOK OF NUMBERS. 


SECTION OF THE TORAH XXXIV. 


BEMIDBAR. 


I, Anp the Lord spake with Mosheh in the wilderness 
of Sinai, in the tabernacle of ordinance, on the first of 
the month Ijar, which was the second month of the 
second year from the time of their coming forth from 
the land of Mizraim, saying: Take the account of the 
whole congregation of the Beni Israel, according to the 
families of their fathers’ house, by the number of the 
names of all the males by their capitations. From each 
son of twenty years and upwards, every one going out 
in the host in Israel; thou and Aharon number them 
by their hosts. And let there be with you a man of 
each tribe, a chief of his father’s house. And these are 
the names of the men who shall stand with you. Of 
Reuben, Elizur bar Shedeur: of Shemeon, the leader,! 
Shelumiel bar Zuri-Shaddai: the prince of Jehudah, 
Nachshon bar Amminadab: the prince of Issakar, 
Nathaniel bar Zuar: the prince of Zebulon, Eliab har 
Cheon: the prince of the Beni Joseph, of Ephraim, 
Elishama bar Ammihud: the prince of Menasheh, 
Gamliel bar Pedazur: the prince of Benjamin, Abidan 


1 Amarkol, 566 Glossary. 


ON NUMBERS. S41 


bar Gideoni: the prince of Dan, Achiezer bar Ammi- 
shadai: the prince of Asher, Pagiel bar Achran: the 
prince of Gad, Eljasaph bar Dehuel: the prince of 
Naphtali, Achira bar Enan. These (were) the notables 
of the congregation of the people, chiefs of their fathers’ 
tribes, heads of thousands in Israel these. And Mosheh 
and Aharon took these men who are expressed by their 
פסמזפת‎ : and they assembled all the congregation on 
the first day of the month Tjar, which is the second 
mouth, and recensed them by the families of their 
fathers’ house, by the number of their names, from 
twenty years old and upward by their capitations. As 
the Lord commanded Mosheh, they numbered them in 
the wilderness of Sinai. 

And the sons of Reuben, the first-born of Israel by 
the families of the generations of their fathers’ house, 
in the number of their names by their polls, every male 
from twenty years old and upward, all going forth in 
the host, the sum of the tribe of Reuben, forty-six 
thousand five hundred. [Jerusatem. Theirsum.] Of 
the families of the Beni Shemeon, after the generations 
of their fathers’ house in the number of their naines by 
their polls, every male from twenty years and upward, 
every one going forth in the host, tle sum of the tribe 
of Shemeon, fifty-nine thousand three hundred: of the 
family of the Beni Gad, after the generation of their 
fathers’ house, in the number of their names by their 
polls, every male from twenty years and upward, forty- 
five thousand six hundred and fifty. The sum of the 
tribe of Jeludah seventy-four thousand six hundred :? 
of Issakar, fifty-four thousand four hundred : of Zebulon, 
fifty-seven thousand four hundred: of Ephraim, forty thou- 
sand five hundred: of Menasheh, thirty-two thousand two 


2 The same form of words is given with each tribe; in the remaining 
ones I 2896 omitted the preamble, and rendered the numbers only. 


342 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHAP. 


hundred : Benjamin, thirty five thousand four liundred : 
Dan, sixty-two thousand seven hundred: Asher, forty- 
one thousand five hundred: Naphtali, fifty-three thou- 
sand four hundred. 

These are the sums of the numbered ones which 
Mosheh and Aharon, and the princes of Israel, twelve 
men, a man for each house of their fathers, did number. 
And all the sums of the numbered of the Beni Israel 
were six hundred and three thousand five hundred and 
fifty. But the Levites after their father’s tribe were not 
numbered among them. For the Lord had spoken with 
Mosheh, saying: Nevertheless, the tribe of Levi thou 
shalt not number, nor take their sum among the chil- 
dren of Israel: but thou shalt appoint the Levites over 
the tabernacle of the testimony, and over all its vessels, 
and whatever things pertain unto it. They shall carry 
the tabernacle and all its vessels, and do service in it; 
and round about the tabernacle shall they dwell. And 
whien the tabernacle is to go forward, the Levites shall 
take it apart ; and when the tabernacle is to be stationary, 
the Levites are to uprear it: the common person who 
draweth near will be slain by a flaming fire from before 
the Lord. 

And the sons of Israel shall encamp every one by the 
place of his own company, every one under his standard 
according to their hosts. But the Levites shall encamp 
round about the tabernacle of the testimony, that there 
may not be wrath upon the congregation of the children 
of Israel; and the Levites shall keep charge of the 
tabernacle of testimony. And the sons of Israel did 
according to all that the Lord commanded Mosheh, so 
did they. 

II. And the Lord spake with Mosheh and with Aharon, 
saying: Every man of the Beni Israel shall encamp by his 
standard, by the ensign which is signified upon the stand- 


I1.] ON NUMBERS. 343 


ards of their fathers’ house over against the tabernacle of 
ordinance shall they encamp round about. The length 
of the camp of Israel shall be twelve miles, and its breadth 
twelve miles. And they who encamp eastward to the 
sunrise shall be of the standard of the camp of Jehudah 
by their hosts, spreading over four miles. And his standard 
shall be of silk, of three colours, corresponding with (those 
of) the precious stones which are in the breastplate,— 
sardius, topaz, and carbuncle ; and upon it shall be 
expressed and set forth the names of the three tribes of 
Jehudah, Issakar, and Zebulon; and in the midst shall 
be written: Arise, O Lord, and let Thine enemies be 
scattered, and Thine adversaries be driven away before 
Thee ; and upon it shail be set forth the figure of a 
young lion. And the Rabba of the Beni Jehudah shall 
be Nachshon bar Amminadab. And the sum 01 the hosts 
of that tribe was seventy-four thousand six hundred. 

And they who encamp next by him shall be the tribe 
of Issakar, and the Rabba appointed over the host of 
the Beni Issakar, Nathaniel bar Zuar: and the sum of 
the host of the tribe fifty-four thousand four hundred. 
The tribe of Zebulon,—the Rabba, Eliab bar Chelon; 
the number, fifty-seven thousand four hundred. All the 
numbered ones of the camp of Jehudah, one hundred 
and eighty-six thousand four hundred, by their hosts; 
they shall go forward in front. 

(By) the standard of the camp of Reuben they shall 
encamp southward by their hosts, spreading over four 
miles. And his standard shall be of silk, of three co- 
lours, corresponding with (those of) the precious stones 
that are in the breastplate, azmorad, sapphire, and ada- 
mant: on it shall be expressed and set forth the names of 
the three tribes of Reuben, Shemeon, Gad; and in the 
midst of it be written, Hear, Israel, the Lord our God is 
One; and upon it shall be set forth the figure of a stag. 


344 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHaP. 


Some would have thought there should have been upon 
it the figure of a young ox; but Mosheh the prophet 
altered it, that the sin of the calf might not be remem- 
bered against them. And the Rabba set over the host 
of the tribe Reuben was Elizur bar Shedeur. And his 
host and the numbered of his tribe were fifty-nine 
thousand three hundred. The tribe of Gad: the Rabba 
set over the host of the tribe of the Beni Gad was Elja- 
saph bar Dehuel. And his host and the number of his 
tribe, forty-five thousand six hundred. All the sum of 
the numbered ones of the camp of Reuben, one hundred 
and fifty one thousand four hundred and fifty by their 
hosts ; and they went forward secondly. 

But the tabernacle shall go with the host of the 
Levites, in the midst of their host; and their camp 
spreadeth over four miles, in the midst are they to be: 
as they encamp, so shall they go, every man going in his 
appointed place, by their standard. 

The camp of Ephraim by the standard of their hosts 
shall pitch on the west ; their camp spreadeth over four 
miles; aud their standard is of silk of three colours, 
corresponding with the precious stones in the breast- 
plate, ligure, agate, and amethyst; and upon it expressed 
and set forth the names of the three tribes, Ephraim, 
Menasheh, and Benjamin, having written in the midst, 
dnd the Cloud of the Lord was over then, in the 
going forward of the host; and upon it was set forth 
the figure of a young man. And the Rabba set over the 
tribe of Ephraim, Elishama bar Ammiliud; and the sum 
of his host, forty thousand five hundred. And next to 
lum were the tribe of Menasheh: the Rabba, Gamliel 
bar Pedashur ; their number, thirty-two thousand two 
hundred. Of the tribe of Benjamin the Rabba was 
Abidan bar Gideoni, and the number of his host thirty- 
five thousand four hundred. The sum of the camp of 


III. | ON NUMBERS. 345 


Ephraim was one hundred and eight thousand one 
hundred; and they went forward thirdly. 

The standard of the camp of Dan shall be to the north 
with their hosts; and the space of their camp shall 
spread over four miles. His standard shall be of silk of 
three colours, corresponding with the stones in the 
breastplate, chrysolite, beryl, and jasper; in it shall be 
expressed and set forth the names of the three tribes, 
Dan, Naphtali, and Asher; and upon it shall be ex- 
pressed: dnd in his encampment shall he say, Return, 
O Lord, and dwell in Thy glory in the midst of the 
myriads of 1806661 ; and upon it shall also be set forth the 
figure of a basilisk serpent. (Gen. xlix. 17.) The Rabba 
set over the hosts of Dan was Achiezer bar Amuni- 
shaddai, and the number of his tribe sixty-two thousand 
seven hundred. They who encamp next to him shall be 
the tribe of Asher; the Rabbi was Paghiel bar Achran, 
and the numbers forty-one thousand five hundred. Of 
the tribe Naphtali, the Rabba, Achira bar Enan; and 
the numbers, fifty-three thousand four hundred. The 
sum of the hosts of Dan was one hundred and fifty- 
seven thousand six hundred: and these went forward 
last with their ensigns. 

This is the amount of the numbers of the Beni Israel, 
according to the house of their fathers; all the sums of 
the camps by their hosts were six hundred and three 
thousand five hundred and fifty. But the Levites were 
not numbered among the sons of Israel, as the Lord 
commanded Mosheh. And the sons of Israel did accord- 
ing to all that the Lord commanded Mosheh ; so did they 
encamp by their standards, and so went they forward, 
every mau with his family by the house of his fathers. 

III, These are the generations of Aharon and Mosheh, 
who were genealogized in the day that the Lord spake 
with Mosheh in the mountain of Sinai. and these are 


Q 5 


346 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


the names of the Beni Aharon the priests, the disciples 
of Moses, the Rabbi of Israel; and they were called by 
his name in the day that they were anointed to minister 
in offering their oblations. But Nadab and Abihu died 
by the flaming fire at the time of their offering the 
strange fire from their own tents; and they had no 
children. And Elazar and Ithamar ministered before 
Aharon their father. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Bring the 
tribe of Levi near, and appoint them before Aharon the 
priest to minister with him, (or, todo him service ;( and 
let them be divided into twenty and four parties, and 
they shall keep his charge, and the charge of all the 
congregation before the tabernacle of ordinance, to per- 
form the work of the tabernacle; and they shall have 
charge of all the vessels of the tabernacle of ordinance, 
and the charge of the sons of Israel to do the service of 
the tabernacle. And I have given the Levites unto 
Aharon and his sons; a gift are they given and delivered 
to him from among the sons of Israel; and number 
thou Aharon and his sons, that they may keep their 
priesthood; and the stranger who cometh near shall be 
slain by the flame from before the Lord. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: And I, 
behold, I have brought nigh the Levites from among the 
sons of Israel, instead of all the first-born who open the 
womb among the sons of Israel; and the Levites shall 
minister before Me. For every first-born among the sons 
of Israel is Mine, from the day when I slew every first- 
born in the land of Mizraim; I have sanctified before 
Me every first-born in Israel ; fom man to animal, they 
are Mine: I am the Lord. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh in the wilderness 
of Sinai, saying: Number the sons of Levi according to 
the house of their fathers and their families ; every male 


Ti. | ON NUMBERS. 347 


from a month old and upward shalt thou number them. 
Moses therefore numbered them according to the 
mouth of the Word of the Lord, as he had been com- 
manded. And these were the sons of Levi by their 
names: Gershon, Kehath, and Merari. And these are the 
names of the Beni Gershon, according to their families, 
Libni and Shemei. And the Beni Kehath by their 
families, Amram, Jizhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. And the 
Beni Merari by their families, Machli, and Mushi: these 
are the families of the Levites after the house of their 
fathers. 

Of Gershon, the family of Libni, and the family of 
Shemei; these are the families of Gershon. The sum 
of them, by the numbers of all the males from a month 
old and upward, seven thousand five hundred. The two 
families who spring from Gershon shall encamp after the 
tabernacle westward; and the Rab of the house of the 
fathers set over the two families shall be Eljasaph bar 
Lael. And the charge of the Beni Gershon in the 
tabernacle of ordinance shall be the tent, and the covering 
that overspreadeth, and the hanging of the door of the 
tabernacle of ordinance, and the curtains of the court, 
and the hanging which is at the gate of the court by the 
tabernacle, and the altar round about, and the cords of 
it, for all the service thereof. 

Of Kehath was the family of Amram, and the family 
of Izhar, and of Hebron, and Uzziel: these are the 
families of Kehath, the numbers eight thousand six 
hundred, keeping the charge of the sanctuary. The 
four families that spring from Kehath shall encamp by 
the south side of the tabernacle; the Rab shall be 
Elizaphan bar Uzziel, and their charge, the ark, the 
table, the candelabrum, the altars, the vessels of the 
sanctuary wherewith they minister, and the veil, and 
that which jertaineth to its service. And the Amarkol 


348 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP, 


set over the chiefs of the Levites shall be Elazar bar 
Aharon the priest, who inquireth by Uraya and 
Thumaya; and under his hand shall they be appointed 
who keep the charge of tle sanctuary. 

Of Merari, the families of Machli and Mushi, their 
number six thousand two hundred, and the Rab Zeruel 
bar Abichael: they shall encamp by the tabernacle 
northward ; and that delivered to their charge shall be 
the boards of the tabernacle, its bars, pillars, and 
sockets, and all (that pertains to) the service thereof. 
The pillars of the court also round about, their sockets, 
pins, and cords. 

But they who encamp before the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance eastward (shall be) Mosheh and Aharon, and his 
sons; keeping charge of the sanctuary and of Israel ; 
and the stranger who draweth near shall be slain by 
flaming fire from before the Lord. The sum of the Le- 
vites whom Mosheh and Aharon numbered by the mouth 
of the Word of the Lord was twenty-two thousand. 

And the Lord said unto Mosheh, Number all the 
first-born males among the sons of Israel, from a month 
old and upward, and take the number of their names. 
And bring near the Levites before me—I am the Lord 
—instead of all the firstborn among the sons of Israel, 
and all the cattle of the Levites instead of all the first. 
ling cattle of the children of Israel. And Mosheh num- 
bered, as the Lord commanded him, all the firstborn of 
the sons of Israel: the sum of their number was twenty- 
two thousand two hundred and seventy-three. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Bring 
near the Levites instead of every first-born among Israel, 
and the cattle of the Levites instead of their cattle, that 
the Levites may minister before me: I am the Lord. 
And for the redemption of the two hundred and seventy 
and three of the first-born of the Beni Israel, who are 


Iv. ] ON NUMBERS. 349 


more (than the number of) the Levites, thou shalt take 
of each five shekels by poll, in the shekel of the sanc- 
tuary shalt thou take, twenty mahin to the shekel. And 
thou shalt give the shekel unto Aharon, and to his sons, 
as the redemption of them who are more than they. 
And Mosheh took the redemption (money) of them who 
were above those who were released by the Levites, one 
thousand three hundred and sixty-five shekels; and 
Mosheh gave the redemption silver to Aharon, and to 
his sons, according to the mouth of the Word of the 
Lord, as the Lord commanded Moslieh. 

IV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Take 
the account of the sous 01 Kehath from among the 
Beni Levi, from thirty years and upwards to fifty years, 
every one who cometh by the band to do the work in 
the tabernacle of ordinance. ‘This is the service of the 
Beni Kehath, in the tabernacle of ordinance (with) the 
most holy things. But whenever the camp is to be 
removed, Aharon and his sons shall enter, and unloose 
tle veil that is spread, and cover up the Ark of the Tes- 
timony, aud put over it the covering of hyacinthine 
skin, and overspread it with a wrapper of twined work, 
and inset its staves. And over the table of the presence 
bread they shall spread a wrapper of purple, and set 
upon it the vials, and the spoons, and the vases, [JERv- 
SALEM. Vials,] and the libation cups; but the bread shall 
be upon it evermore. And they shall spread upon it a 
wrapper of scarlet, and cover it with a covering of hya- 
cinthine skin, and inset its staves. And they shall take a 
purple wrapper, and cover the candelabrum that lighteth, 
and its lamps, its tongs, its snuff-dishes, and all the 
vessels of service by which they attend it. [JunusaLem. 
Snuffers.] And they shall put it and all its vessels in a 
covering of hyacinthine skin, and place it upon a rest. 
[Jervsstem. Upon a beam.] And upon the golden 


350 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaAP. 


altar they shall spread a purple vest, and cover it with a 
covering of hyacinthine skin, and inset its staves. And 
they shall take all the vessels of the service with which 
they minister in the sanctuary, and wrap them in 
a covering of hyacinthine skins, and place it upon a 
beam. 

And they shall remove the cinders from the altar, 
and overspread it with a covering of crimson. (JERU- 
8410 And they shall take away from the altar,] and 
put upon it all its vessels with which it is served, the 
cinder-holders, flesh-hooks, prongs, and basins, even all 
the vessels of the altar, and spread upon it a covering 
of hyacinthine skin, and inset its staves. 

And after Aharon and his sons have completed to 
cover the sanctuary, and all the vessels thereof, when 
the camp is to go forward, then the sons of Kehath may 
enter in to carry : but they shall not touch any holy thing, 
lest they die by the flaming fire. This is the burden of 
the sons of Kehath in the tabernacle of ordinance. And 
that delivered to Elazar bar Aharon the priest shall be 
the oil for the light, the aromatic incense, the perpetual 
mincha, the oil of anointing, and the custody of all the 
tabernacle, and whatever is in it in the sanctuary and its 
vessels, 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Thou 
shalt not give occasion for the tribe of the family of 
Kehath to perish among the Levites. But this appoiut- 
ment make thou for them, that they may live the life of 
the just, and die not by the flaming fire; they shall turn 
away their eyes from the Most Holy Place at the time 
they approach thither. Aharon and his sons shall enter, 
and appoint them man by man to his service and his 
burden. But they shall not go in to gaze, when the 
priests go in to cover the vessels of the sanctuary, that 
they die not by the flaming fire. [Jerusatem. And 


Iv.] ON NUMBERS. 351 


the Levites shall not go in to gaze when the priests 
cover the vessels of the holy house, lest they die.] 


SECTION ,טאאא‎ 
NASA. 


Aynp the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Take the 
account of the Beni Gershon also, from thirty years to 
fifty years, of all who come by bands to do the work of 
the tabernacle of ordinance. And this is the service 
of the family of Gershon, to serve and to carry. They 
shall carry the curtains of the tabernacle, the tabernacle 
of ordinance, its covering, and the hyacinth covering 
which is upon it above; and the hanging of the gate 
of the tabernacle of ordinance; and the curtains of the 
court, and the hanging for the gate of the court which 
is by the tabernacle round about, and their cords and 
all the vessels of their service, and all that is delivered 
to them to serve with. Upon the word of Aharon and 
his sons shall be all the service of the Beni Gershon, 
for all their burdens and service, and of their whole 
work shalt thou ordain the charge upon them. This is 
the ministry of the family of the Beni Gershon, in the 
tabernacle of ordinance; and the care of them shall be in 
the hand of Ithamar bar Aharon the priest. 

The sons of Merari shalt thou number, from thirty 
years to fifty years, every one who cometh with the band 
to minister in the work of the tabernacle of ordinauce. 
And this shall be the charge of the burdens of all their 
service in the tabernacle of ordinance, the boards of the 
tabernacle, its bars, pillars, and bases; the pillars of the 
court also round about, their pins and their cords, with 


802 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


all the instruments of their whole service, and all those 
of the charge of their burdens, thou shalt number by 
their names. ‘This is the work of the family of Merari, 
according to all their service in the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance, under the hand of Ithamar bar Aharon the priest. 

And Mosheh and Aharon numbered the sons of 
Kehath by their families, and ‘by the honse of their 
fathers, from thirty years to fifty years; every one who 
came with the band to serve im the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance ; and the sums of them were two thousand seven 
hundred and fifty. These are the numbers of the 
family of Kehath, of all who ministered in the taber- 
nacle of ordinance ; whom Mfosheh and Aharon numbered 
upon the mouth of the Word of the Lord by Mosheh. 

The numbers of the Beni Gershon, after the families 
of their father’s house from thirty years to fifty years, 
every one who who came with the band to serve in the 
tabernacle of ordinance; the sums of them were two 
thousand six hundred and thirty. These are the num- 
bers of the Beni Gershon, of all who ministered in the 
tabernacle of ordinance, whom Mosheh and Aharon 
numbered upon the mouth of the Word of the Lord by 
Mosheh. 

And the numbers of the Beni Merari, by the families 
of their father’s house, from thirty to fifty years, every 
one who came with the band to the service of the taber- 
nacle of ordinance, were three thousand two hundred. 
These are the numbers of the Beni Merari, whom Mosheh 
and Aharon numbered upon the mouth of the Word of 
the Lord by Mosheh. 

The whole sum of the Levites whom Mosheh and 
Aharon and the princes of Israel numbered, from thirty 
to fifty years, all coming by bands to fulfil the charge 
and service of the porterage of the tabernacle of ordi- 
uance, was eight thousand five hundred and eighty. By 


ON NUMBERS. 353‏ [.ז 


the mouth of the Word of the Lord were they numbered 
by Mosheh, every man according to his service and 
burden; and the numbering of them was as the Lord 
commanded Mosheh. 

VY. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Com- 
mand the sons of Israel to send away from the camp 
every one who is leprous, or who hath an issue, or is 
unclean by having defiled himself (by touching) the 
dead. From a male to a female thou shalt send them 
away, and separate them without the camp, that they 
may not defile their tents; for the Shekinah of My 
Holiness dwelleth among you. And the sons of Israel 
did so, and sent them away from the camp; as the 
Lord had commanded Mosheh, so did the sons of 
Israel. , 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Say to 
the children of Israel: A man or a woman who comt 
mitteth any human sin, in acting perversely before the 
Tord, and hath become guilty; they shall make con- 
fession of their sins which they have committed. If he 
hath extorted money from his neighbour, he shall restore 
(the amount of) his sin in the principal thereof, and add 
to it a fifth of its value, and give (both) principal and 
fifth to him against whom he hath sinned. And if the 
man (hath died and) hath no kinsman to whom the debt 
may be rendered, the debt to be restored (shall he 
render) before the Lord; he shall give it to the priest, 
besides the ram for his atonement, by which atonement 
is to be made for him. And every separation of all 
consecrated things of the children of Israel which they 
bring to the priest shall be his. The consecrated tithe, 
also, of any man shall be his, that lis substance may 
not fail; whatever a man giveth unto the priest shall be 
his. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 


354 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


with the sons of Israel, and say to them: If the wife of 
any man go astray and commit wrongness against him, 
and another man lie with her, and it be hidden from 
her husband’s eyes, and be concealed, and she be conta- 
minated; or, if the testimony be not clear which is 
witnessed against her, and she be not convicted ; or, 
if the spirit of jealousy come upon him, and he be 
jealous of his wife, that she hath been defiled, or the 
spirit of jealousy come upon him, and he be jealous of 
his wife, though she hath not been defiled ; and though 
that man may have not brought separation or tythe, 
there is constraint upon him to bring his wife unto the 
priest. Now, because she may have brought delicacies 
to the adulterer, she ought to bring an appointed obla- 
tion of her own, a tenth of three sata of barley flour, 
that being the food of beasts: he shall not pour oil, nor 
‘put frankincense thereon ; for it is a mincha (on account) 
of jealousy, a mincha of a memorial which calleth guilt 
to mind. 

And the priest shall bring her near, and cause her to 
stand before the Lord. 

And the priest shall take holy water from the laver 
with an ewer, and pour it into an earthen vessel ; because 
she may have brought the adulterer sweet wine to drink 
in precious vases; and he shall take of the dust that 
is upon the ground of the tabernacle,—because the end 
of all flesh is dust,—and put it into the water. And the 
priest shall cause the woman to stand before the Lord, 
and bind a cord over her loins and upon her breast,— 
because she should have bound her loins with a girdle; 
and he shall uncover the woman’s head, because she had 
tied a fillet upon her hair. 

And he shall put the mincha of memorial, the mincha 
of jealousy, into her hand; while in the hand of the 
priest shall be the bitter water of the trial. 


v.] ON NUMBERS. 355 


And the priest shall adjure her by the adjuration of the 
Great and Glorious Name, and shall say to the woman : 

If thou hast not turned aside, to defile thyself by 
acting against the right of thy husband, be thou unhurt 
by these bitter waters of trial. [JERusatem. Be thou 
made innocent by these waters of trial by their pro- 
bation.] But if thou hast turned aside against the right 
of thy husband, and art defiled in having shared the 
bed with a man against thy husband’s right :—Then 
shall the priest adjure the woman by the oath of male- 
diction, and say to the woman,—The Lord make thee a 
curse and an execration among the children of thy people, 
in causing thy thigh to corrupt, and thy belly to swell; 
and may these waters of trial enter into thy bowels, to 
cause thy belly to swell, and thy thigh to corrupt. 

And the woman shall answer and say: Amen, if 
I was polluted when betrothed; Amen, if I have been 
polluted since my marriage. ([Jerusatem. And the 
woman shall answer, Amen, because I have not been un- 
clean; Amen, if ever I shall have wrought uncleanness. | 

And the priest shall write these maledictions upon a 
parchment, and wash it out with the water of trial, and 
cause the woman to drink the bitter trial water: 
the trial water of malediction shall be received by 
her. But the priest shall (first) take from the woman’s 
hand the mincha of jealousy, and uplift the mincha 
before the Lord, and lay it on the side of the altar. And 
the priest shall take a handful of the portion for its 
memorial, and burn it at the altar; and after that the 
woman shall drink the water. 

And when he hath caused her to drink the water, it 
will be that if she hath been defiled by adultery, and hath 
acted with wrongness against her husband, those proving 
waters will enter into her with a curse, and her belly 
will swell, and her thigh become corrupt, and the 


356 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (CHAP. 


woman will be an execration among the children of her 
people. The adulterer as well will be detected by these 
waters of probation, in whatever place he may be. But 
if the woman hath not been defiled by adultery, but is 
innocent, they will enter without harm, and her bright- 
ness will shine forth, and she will find affection before 
her husband, and become the mother of a son. 

This is the declaration of the law of jealousy, when a 
woman hath fallen away from the right of her husband, 
and become defiled by adultery ; or when the spirit of 
jealousy cometh upon a man, that he be so jealous 
of his wife as to make her stand before the Lord, then 
shall the priest perform all this law. But if the man be 
innocent of transgressions, then let that woman bear 
her iniquity. 

VI. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the children of Israel, and say to them: 
When a man or woman, seeing her who had gone astray 
in her corruption, shall (resolve to) become abstinent 
from wine, or for any other cause shall make the vow of 
a Nazir in separating one’s-self unto the Name of the 
Lord, he shall abstain from wine, new and old, he shall 
drink neither vinegar of old wine or new; neither may 
he drink liquor in which grapes have been crushed, nor eat 
of grapes either fresh or dried. (Jerusateu. From wine, 
new or old, he shall abstain, (keep apart,) and vinegar 
of old wine he may not drink, nor any liquor of grapes.] 
All the days of his vow he shall not eat of the tree which 
maketh wine, from the husks of grapes even to the kernels 
within them. All the days of lis nazir-vow the razor shall 
not pass upon his head until the time when the days of 
his separation to the Name of the Lord be fulfilled; he 
shall be consecrate, letting the hair of his head grow. 
All the days of his separation to the Name of the Lord 
he shall not go in where there is a dead man. For his 


vi. ON NUMBERS. 357 


father, or his mother, his brother, or his sister, he shall 
not make himself unclean through their decease; for 
the crown of Eloah is upon his head; all the days 
in which he isa Nazir he shall be sacred before the 
Lord. 

But if a person die near him suddenly, and he un- 
awares defile the head of his vow, let him shave his head 
on the day of his puritication; on the seventh day let 
him shave it. And on the eighth day let him bring 
two turtle doves, or two young pigeons, unto the priest 
86 the door of the tabernacle of ordinance. And the 
priest shall make one a sin offering, and one a burnt 
offering, and atone for him on account of that in which 
he hath sinned, in defiling himself by the dead: and he 
shall consecrate his head on that day. And let him 
dedicate before the Lord the days of his nazirate (afresh), 
and bring a lamb of the year for a trespass offering ; 
but the former days will have been in vain, because he 
had defiled his nazirate. 

And this is the law of the Nazir on the day when his 
separation days are fulfilled: Let him present himself at 
the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, and bring his 
oblation before the Lord, one lamb of the year un- 
blemished for a burnt offering, and one ewe lamb of 
the year unblemished for a sin offering, and one ram 
unblemished for the consecrated oblation; and a basket 
of unleavened cakes of flour with olive oil, and un- 
leavened wafers anointed with olive oil, their minchas 
and libations. And the priest shall offer before the 
Lord, and perform the sin offering, and the burnt sacri- 
fice; and make the ram a consecrated victim (peace 
offering) before the Lord, with the basket of unleavened ; 
and the priest shall make its mincha and its libation. 
And the Nazir shall shave his consecrated head, without, 
after the offering of the holy oblations at the door of 


358 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


the tabernacle of ordinance, and take the hair of his 
consecrated head, and lay it on the fire that is under the 
cauldron of the peace offering. And the priest shall 
take the shoulder that is boiled, entire from the ram, 
and one unleavened cake from the basket, and one un- 
leavened wafer, and put upon the hands of the Nazirite, 
after he hath shaved his head of the consecration. And 
the priest shall uplift them for an elevation. It is 
sacred; it belongeth to the priest, with the breast of 
the elevation, and the separated shoulder. And after 
that the Nazirite may drink wine. 

This is the declaration of the law of the Nazir who 
shall have vowed his oblation before the Lord for his 
separation, besides what may come into his hand accord- 
ing to the rule (or measure) of his vow, to bring that 
which he had vowed; so shall he do according to the 
law of his nazirate. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with Aharon and his sons, saying: Thus shall you bless 
the children of Israel, while spreading forth the hands 
from the high place ;* in this tongue.® The Lord bless 
thee and keep thee. The Lord make His face to shine 
upon thee, and be gracious unto thee. The Lord lift 
up His countenance upon thee, and grant thee peace. 
The Lord bless thee in all thy business, and keep thee 
from demons ® of the night, and things that cause terror, 
and from demons of the noon” and of the morning, and 
from malignant spirits and phantoms. The Lord make 
His face to shine upon thee, when occupied in the law, 
and reveal to thee its secrets, and be merciful unto thee. 
The Lord lift up His countenance upon thee in thy 


+ Or, “ place of speaking.” 

5 The Hebrew, which the Targumist gives textually, and then para- 
phrases in Chaldee. See the Glossary. 

8 Liliths. 7 Psalm 101. 6. Vulg. et Sept. 


vit. | ON NUMBERS, 359 


prayer, and grant thee peace in thy end. And they 
shall bestow the benediction of My Name upon the 
children of Israel, and I, by My Word, will bless them. 

VII. And it was on the day which begins the month 
of Nisan, when Mosheh had finished to uprear the 
tabernacle, he took it not in pieces again, but anointed 
and consecrated it and all its vessels, the altar and all 
the vessels thereof, and he anointed them and hallowed 
them; then the leaders of Israel, who were the chiefs of 
the house of their fathers, brought their offerings, 
These were they who had been appointed in Mizraim 
chiefs over the numbered, and they brought their 
offering before the Lord; six waggons covered and 
fitted up, and twelve oxen; one waggon for two princes 
and one ox for each. [JrerusaLem. Six wagyons yoked.] 
But Mosheh was not willing to receive them, and they 
brought them before the tabernacle. And the Lord 
spake with Mosheh, saying: Take them, and let them be 
used for the need of the appointed (work), and let the 
oxen and the waggons be for the work of the service of 
the tabernacle of ordinance, and give them to the 
Levites, to each according to the measure of his work. 
And Mosheh took the waggons and the oxen, and gave 
them to the Levites. Two waggons and four oxen he 
gave to the sons of Gershon, according to the amount 
of their service, and four waggons and eight oxen gave 
he to the sons of Merari, according to the measure of 
their service, by the hand of Ithamar bar Aharon the 
priest. But to the sons of Kehath he gave neither 
waggons nor oxen, because on them was laid the service 
of the sanctuary, to be carried on their shoulders. And 
the princes offered at the dedication of the altar by 
anointing, on the day that he anointed it did the princes 
present their oblations before the altar. And the Lord 
said unto Mosheh, Let the princes offer each, one prince 


360 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


on one day, their oblations at the dedication of the 
altar by anointing. 

He who on the first day presented his oblation was 
Nachshon bar Amminadab, prince of the house of the 
fathers of the tribe Jehudah: and his oblation which 
he offered was one silver bowl, thickly embossed, (or, 
crusted,) in weight one hundred and thirty shekels, in 
shekels of the sanctuary; one silver vase, slightly em- 
bossed, of seventy shekels, in shekels of the sanctuary ; 
both of these vessels he brought filled with flour of the 
separation, sprinkled with olive oil for a mincha; one 
pan (censer) weighing ten silver shekels, but it was 
itself of good gold; and he brought it full of good 
sweet incense of the separation; one young bullock of 
three years, one ram of two years, and one lamb of the 
year. These three did the chief of the tribe Jehudah 
bring for a burnt offering ; one kid of the goats brought 
he for a sin offering; and for consecrated victims, two 
oxen, five rams, five goats, lambs of the year five: 
this is the order of the oblation which Nachshon bar 
Amminadab offered of his wealth. [JERusaLem. And 
the oblation which he offered was one silver dish, &c., in 
the same words as above. ] 

On the second day, Nethanel bar Zuar, chief of the 
house of the fathers of the tribe Issakar, brought his 
oblation. He brought his oblation after Jehudah by 
commandment of the Holy: one silver dish thickly 
embossed, one hundred and thirty shekels, &c., as the 
first.® 

On the third day, Eliab bar Helon, prince of the 
Beni Zebulon, offered. On the fourth, Elizur bar She- 
deur, prince of the Beni Reuben ; on the fifth, Shelumiel 

" The oblation of each of the twelve princes was precisely the same. 


Ihave therefore omitted the details after the first, and given only the 
name of the offerer. The Targumist abridges here, also. 


VIL. | ON NUMBERS. 361 


bar Zurishaddai, prince of Shemeon; on the sixth, 
Eljasaph bar Dehuel, prince of the Beni Gad; on the 
seventh, Elishama bar Ammihud, prince of the Beni 
Ephraim ; on the eighth, Gamaliel bar Pedazur, prince 
of Menasheh; on the ninth, Abidan bar Gideoni, prince 
of Benjamin; on the tenth, Achiezer bar Amishaddai, 
prince of the Beni Dan; on the eleventh, Pagiel bar 
Achran, prince of Asher; and on the twelfth day, 
Achira bar Enan, prince of the Beni Naphtali, offered. 
This is the oblation at the anointing of the altar, on 
the day that they anointed it, from the riches of the 
princes of Israel: twelve silver bowls, answering to the 
twelve tribes; twelve silver vases, answering to the 
twelve princes of the Beni Israel; twelve golden pans, 
answering to the twelve signs (mazalia®). One hun- 
dred and thirty shekels was the weight of each silver 
bowl, answering to the years of Jokebed when she bare 
Mosheh ; and seventy shekels was the weight of each 
vase, answering to the seventy elders of the great 
Sanhedrin: all the silver vessels, two thousand four 
hundred shekels, in shekels of the sanctuary. The 
golden pans were twelve, answering to the princes of 
Israel, full of good sweet incense; the weight of ten 
shekels was the weight of each pan, answering to the 
Ten Words; all the gold of the pans, one hundred and 
and twenty (shekels), answering to the years lived by 
Mosheh the prophet. All the bullocks for the burnt 
offering, twelve, a bullock for a prince of the house of 
the fathers; twelve rams, because the twelve princes of 
Ishmael would perish ; twelve lambs of the year, because 
the twelve princes of Persia would perish ; and their 
minchas, that famine might be removed from the world ; 
and twelve kids of the goats for the sin offering, to 
atone for the sins of the twelve tribes. And all the 


® Signs of the Zodiac. 
₪ 


362 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


oxen for consecrated victims, twenty-four, answering to 
the twenty-four orders (of the priests); the rams, sixty, 
answering to the sixty years which Izhak had lived 
when he begat Jakob; the goats, sixty, answering to 
the sixty letters in the benediction of the priests ; lambs 
of the year, sixty, to atone for the sixty myriads of 
Israel. This was the dedication of the altar by anoint- 
ment on the day that they anointed it. 

And when Mosheh entered into the tabernacle of 
ordinance to speak with Him, he heard the voice of the 
Spirit who spake with him descending from the heaven 
of heavens upon the 316207 Seat which was upon the 
Ark of the Testimony between the two Cherubim, and 
from thence was the Oracle speaking with him. 


SECTION XXXVI. 


VIII. פא‎ the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with Aharon, and say to him: At the time when 
thou dost kindle the lamps upon the candelabrum, (all) 
the seven lamps shall be alight; three on the western 
side, and three on the eastern side, and the seventh in 
the midst. And Aharon did so; at the face of the 
candelabrum he lit the lamps thereof, as the Lord com- 
manded Mosheh. And this was the work of the can- 
delabrum, which was of beaten gold, from its founda- 
tions unto its lilies, the work of the artificer, with the 
hammer was it wrought: according to the vision which 
tle Lord had showed Mosheh, so did Bezalel make the 
candelabrum. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Bring 


vu. | ON NUMBERS. 363 


the Levites out from among the sons of Israel, and 
purify them. And this shalt thou do to purify them. 
Sprinkle upon them the water for uncleanness through 
sin (chattatha), and let the razor pass over all their 
flesh, and let them wash their raiment, and wash 
themselves in forty savan of water. And they shall 
take a young bullock, and his mincha of flour sprinkled 
with olive oil; and take thou a second young bullock 
for a sin offering. And thou shalt bring the Levites 
before the tabernacle of ordinance, and gather together 
also all the congregation of the sons of Israel. Thou 
shalt bring the Levites before the Lord, and the sons of 
Israel shall lay their hands upon the Levites. And 
Aharon shall present the Levites, (as) an elevation before 
the Lord from the sons of Israel, and they shall be for 
the work of the service of the Lord. And the Levites 
shall lay their hands upon the head of the bullocks, and 
make one a sin offering, and one a burnt offering before 
the Lord, to atone for the Levites. And thou shalt 
place the Levites before Aharon and his sons, and present 
them (as) an elevation before the Lord; and thus shalt 
thou separate the Levites from among the sous of Israel, 
that the Levites may be ministers before Me. And 
afterward the Levites may enter to fulfil the service of 
the tabernacle of ordinance, when thou shalt have puri- 
fied them and presented them (as) an elevation; for sepa- 
rated they are separate before Me from among 6 
sons of Israel, instead of every one who openeth the 
womb; the first-born of all who are of the sons of Israel 
have I taken (to be) before Me. For every first-born 
of the sons of Israel is Mine, whether of man or of 
beast: in the day that I slew all the first-born in the 
land of Mizraim, I sanctified them before Me; and I 
have taken the Levites instead of all the first-born of 
the sons of Israel, and have given the Levites (as) gifts 
R2 


364 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHAP. 


unto Aharon and to his sons from among the sons of 
Israel, to minister the service of the children of Israel 
in the tabernacle of ordinance, and to atone for the chil- 
dren of Israel, lest there be mortality among the children 
of Israel at the time when they approach the sanctuary. 

And Mosheh and Aharon and all the congregation of 
the Beni Israel did unto the Levites according to all 
that the Lord had commanded Mosheh concerning the 
Levites, so did the sons of Israel to them. And the 
Levites were purified, and they washed their raiment ; and 
Aharon presented them as an elevation before the Lord. 
And Aharon made atonement for them to purify them. 
And afterward the Levites went in to fulfil their ministry 
in the tabernacle of ordinance, before Aharon and his 
sons: as the Lord had commanded Mosheh concerning 
the Levites, so did they unto them. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: This is 
the instruction for the Levites who are not disqualified 
(profaned) by their blemishes: from one of twenty-five 
years and upward, he shall come, according to his 
company, to the service of the tabernacle of ordinance ; 
and from fifty years of age he shall return from the 
band of the service, and serve no more. Yet he may 
minister with his brethren at the tabernacle 01 urdinance 
in keeping the watch; but he shall not do any of the 
service. So shall the Levites act in their charge. 

TX. And the Lord spake with Mosheh in the wilderness 
of Sinai, in the second year from the time of their going 
forth from the land of Mizraim, in the first ‘cont 
saying: Let the children of Israel perform the sacrifice 
of the Pascha between the suns at its time. On the 
fourteenth day of this month, between the suns, they 
shall perform it in its time; according to all its rites 
and all its statutes shall they do it. And Mosheh spake 
with the children of Israel to perform the sacrifice of the 


ON NUMBERS. 365‏ [.צז 


Pascha. They performed the Pascha, therefore, on the 
fourteenth day of the month, between the suns, in the 
wilderness of Sinai; after all that the Lord had com- 
manded Mosheh, so did the children of Israel. 

But certain men, who were unclean, having been 
defiled by the body of a man who had died near them 
suddenly; as the commandment (of the Pascha) came 
upon them, could not perform it on that day, which was 
the seventh of their uncleanness. And they came before 
Mosheh and Aharon on that day; and these men said 
to him, We are unclean, on account of a man who died 
with us: therefore we are hindered from killing the 
Pascha, and shedding the blood of the Lord’s oblation 
upon the altar at its time, that we may eat its flesh, 
being clean, among the children of Israel. 

This is one of four matters of judgment brought 
before Mosheh the prophet, which he decided according 
to the Word of the Holy One: in some of which Mosheh 
was deliberate, because they were judgments about 
life; but in the others Mosheh was prompt, they being 
(only) judgments concerning money: but in those (the 
former) Mosheh said, I have not heard; that he 
might teach the princes of the Sanhedrin who should 
arise after him to be deliberate in judgments regarding 
life, but prompt in judgments about money ; and not to 
be ashamed to ask counsel in things too hard for them, 
inasmuch as Mosheh himself, the Rabbi of Israel, 
had need to say, I have not yet heard. Therefore, 
said Mosheh to them, Wait until I have heard what 
will be commanded from before the Lord concerning 
your case. [JeRUSALEM. This is one of four matters of 
judgment brought before Mosheh, in two of which 
Mosheh was prompt, and in two was he slower. Con- 
cerning the unclean who could not perform the Pascha 
in its time, and concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, 


366 TARGUM OF PALESTINE ג‎ 


was Mosheh prompt, because the [latter] judgment was 
about money; but concerning the blasphemer who had 
reviled the sacred Name, and the gatherer of wood, who 
wickedly profaned the Sabbath, Mosheh was deliberate, 
they being decisions involving life; and in them he said, 
1 have not heard; that he might teach the judges who 
were to come after Mosheh to be prompt in cases of 
mammon, but deliberate in those of life; and not to be 
ashamed to say, I have not heard, because Mosheh our 
Rabbi himself said, I have not heard. Therefore, spake 
he, Arise, and listen to what the Word of the Lord will 
prescribe to you.] 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with the sons of Israel, saying: A man, whether young 
or old, when unclean by defilement from the dead, or an 
issue, or the leprosy, or who is hindered in the way of 
the world by the accidents of the night, or who shall 
be at a distance from the threshold of his house: if 
such things happen to you, or to your generations, 
then may he defer to perform the Pascha before the 
Lord. But in the second month, which is the month 
of Ijar, on the fourteenth day of the month, between 
the suns they shall perform it; with unleavened bread and 
with bitters they shall eat it. They shall not leave of 
it till the morning, and a bone in it shall not be broken ; 
according to every instruction in the decree of the Pascha 
in Nisan, they shall perform it. In the Pascha of Nisan 
(such persons) may eat unleavened bread, but not per- 
form the oblation of the Pascha on account of their 
defilement ; but in the Pascha of Ijar being purified 
they shall offer it. But the man who, being clean and 
undefiled by the way of the world, and not at a distance 
from the threshold of his home, neglecteth to perform 
the oblation of the Pascha of Nisan, that man shall be 
cut off from his people, because he hath not offered the 


ON NUMBERS. 367‏ [.צז 


Lord’s oblation in its season ; that man shall bear his 
sin. Andif the stranger who is sojourning with you 
will perform the Pascha before the Lord, he shall do 
it after the proper manner of the Paschal decree, 
according to its form so shall he do it. You shall have 
oue statute, both for the sojourner and for the native of 
the land. 

And on the day on which the tabernacle was reared 
the Cloud of Glory covered the Tabernacle; it over- 
spread the Tabernacle of Testimony by day, and at 
evening it was over the Tabernacle like a vision of Fire 
until the morning. So was it continually, a Cloud of 
Glory covering it by day, and a vision of Fire by night. 
And what time the Cloud of Glory was uplifted from 
the Tabernacle, then the children of Israel went forward ; 
and at the place where the Cloud rested, there did the 
children of Israel rest. By the mouth of the Word of 
the Lord the children of Israel went forward, and by 
the Word of the Lord they rested. All the days that 
the Cloud of Glory abode upon the Tabernacle, (so long) 
did they abide. And if the Cloud tarried over the 
Tabernacle many days, the children of Israel observed 
the watch of the Word of the Lord, and did not proceed. 
If for the time of a number of days, suppose the seven 
days of the week, the Cioud of Glory was upon the 
Tabernacle, by the mouth of the Word of the Lord they 
rested, and by the mouth of the Word of the Lord they 
went forward. Or, if the Cloud of Glory (rested only) 
from evening until morning, and was uplifted in the 
morning, then went they onward ; whether by day or by 
night, when the Cloud was lifted up they went forward ; 
whether it was two days, or a month, or a year com- 
plete, while the Cloud of Glory made stay over the Taber- 
nacle, abiding on it, the children of Israel abode, 
and journeyed not, and at the time of its uplifting they 


368 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


went forward. By the mouth of the Word of the Lord 
they encamped, and by it they journeyed; they kept 
the observance of the Word of the Lord, by the mouth 
of the Word of the Lord through Mosheh. 

X. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Make 
for thee, of thine, two trumpets of silver of solid material, 
the work of the artificer shalt thou make them; and 
let them be thine, with which to convoke the assembly, 
and for the removing of the camps. And thou shalt 
blow upon them, and bring together to thee all the con- 
gregation at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance. If 
they blow upon one (only), the princes of the heads of 
the thousands of Israel shall assemble to thee. But 
when you blow an alarm, then the camps which are on 
the east are to go forward; and when they blow a 
second alarm, the camps on the south shall go forward ; 
they shall blow the alarm for their journeys. And at 
the time of assembling the congregation you shall blow, 
but not an alarm. The sons of Aharon, the priests 
only, shall blow with the trumpets, which shall be to 
you for a perpetual statute for your generations. 

And when you enter upon the order of the line of 
battle for your country, with oppressors who oppress 
you, then shall you blow the alarm on the trumpets, 
that the remembrance of you may come up for good 
before the Lord your God, that you may be delivered 
from your enemies. And in the day of your rejoicings, 
and in your solemnities, and at the beginning of your 
months, you shall blow with the trumpets over your 
burnt offerings and your consecrated victims, and they 
shall be for a good memorial to you before the Lord 
your God; for Satana shall be troubled at the sound of 
your jubel notes: 1 am the Lord your God. 

And it was in the seeond year, the second month, 
which is the month of Jjar, the twentieth day of the 


x.] ON NUMBERS. 369 


month, that the Cloud of Glory was uplifted from above 
the Tabernacle of Testimony ; and the children of Israel 
went forward upon their journeys from the wilderness of 
Sinai, and the Cloud of Glory rested in the wilderness of 
Pharan. And they went forth at the first by the mouth 
of the Word of the Lord through Mosheh. 

The standard of the camps of the Beni Jehudah went 
forward by their hosts, and the Rabba who was appointed 
over the host of the tribe of the Beni Jehudah was 
Nachshon bar Amminadab ; the Rabba of the Beni Issa- 
kar was Nethanel bar Zuar; and the Rabba of the Beni 
Zebulon, Eliab bar Chelon. And the tabernacle was 
taken down, and the sons of Gershon and of Merari 
went forward, carrying the tabernacle. 

The standard of the camps of Reuben went forward 
by their hosts. The Rabba set over the hosts of the 
tribe of the Beni Reuben was Elizur bar Shedeur; the 
Rabba of the Beni Shemeon, Shelumiel bar Zurishaddai ; 
and the Rabba of the Beni Gad, Eljasaph bar Dehuel. 

And the family of Kehath went forward, carrying the 
sanctuary ; and they (the men of Gershon) reared up the 
tabernacle against their coming. 

The standard of the camps of the Beni Ephraim went 
forward by their hosts: the Rabba set over the host of 
the tribe of Ephraim was Elishama bar Ammihud; the 
Rabba of that of Menasheh, Gamaliel bar Pedazur; and 
the Rabba of Benjamin, Abidan bar Gideoni. 

And the standard of the camps of the Beni Dan went 
forward, completing all the camps according to their 
hosts ; and the Rabba set over his host was Ahiezer bar 
Ammishaddai; the Rabba of the tribe of Asher, Pagiel 
bar Achran ; and the Rabba of the Beni Naphtali, Ahira 
bar Enan. These are the journeys of the children of 
Israel by their hosts ; the Cloud of Glory was lifted up 
from above the tabernacle, and they went forward. 

R 5 


370 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


And Mosheh said unto Hobab bar Reuel the Midianite, 
father-in-law of Mosheh, We are journeying from hence 
to the place of which the Lord hath said, I will give it 
to you: come with us, and we will do thee good ; for the 
Lord hath spoken to do good unto the sojourner with 
Israel. But he answered him, I will not go (with you), 
but to my (own) land and to my kindred will I go. 
But he said, Do not now leave us; fur when we were 
encamped in the wilderness, thou knewest how to judge, 
and didst teach us the method (or business) of judg- 
ment, and thou art dear to us as the apple of our eyes. 
And it shall be that if thou wilt go on with us, with the 
good that the Lord shall benefit us will we benefit thee, 
in the division of the land. 

And they went forward from the mountain on which 
the glory of the Shekinah of the Lord had been revealed, 
going three days; and the Ark of the Lord’s covenant 
went before them. Thirty and six miles it went that 
day; it preceded the camp of Israel, going three days, 
to provide for them a place to encamp in. And the Cloud 
of the Lord’s Shekinah overshadowed them by day in 
their going out from the encampment. And it was when 
the ark should go forward, the Cloud gathered itself 
together and stood still, not going on, until Mosheh, 
standing in prayer, prayed and supplicated mercy from 
before the Lord, and thus spake: Let the Word of the 
Lord be now revealed in the power of Thy anger, that 
the adversaries of Thy people may be scattered ; and let 
not the banner of those who hate them be uplifted before 
Thee. But when the ark should rest, the Cloud gathered 
itself together and stood, but did not overspread, until 
Mosheh, standing in prayer, prayed and besought mercy 
from before the Lord, thus speaking: Return now, Thou 
Word of the Lord,’ in the goodness of Thy mercy, and 


+ Observe, Moses prays to the Memra. Compare the Glossary, pp. 14-17. 


ON NUMBERS. 371‏ [זצ 


lead Thy people Israel, and let the glory of Thy Shekinah 
dwell among them, and (Thy) mercy with the myriads of 
the house of Jakob, and with the multitudes of the 
thousands of Israel. (Jerusauem. It was when the ark 
went forward Mosheh stood, with hands (outstretched) 
in prayer, and said, Arise now, O Word of the Lord, in 
the power of Thy might, and let the adversaries of Thy 
people be scattered, and make Thine enemies flee before 
Thee. But when the ark rested, Mosheh lifted his hands 
in prayer, and said, O Word of the Lord, turn from the 
strength of Thy anger, and return unto us in the good- 
ness of Thy mercy, and bless the myriads and multiply 
the thousands of the children of Israel. 

XI. But there were wicked men of the people, who, 
being discontent, devised and imagined evil before the 
Lord; and it was heard before the Lord, whose displea- 
sure was moved ; and a flaming fire was kindled among 
them from the Lord, which destroyed some of the wicked 
in the outskirts of the house of Dan, with whom was a 
graven image. And the people cried to Mosheh to pray 
for them; and Mosheh did pray before the Lord, and 
the fire was extinguished where it was. And he called 
the name of that place Enkindlement, because the 
flaming fire had been enkindled there from before the 
Lord. 

And the strangers who had gathered together among 
them demanded with demand, and they turned and wept ; 
and the sons of Israel said, Who will give us flesh to 
eat? We remember the fish which we had to eat in 
Mizraim freely, without (being restricted by prohibitory) 
precept, the cucumbers and melons, the leeks, onions, 
and potherbs. [Jurusatem. We remember the fish 
that we ate freely in Mizraim, the cucumbers and melons, 
Jeeks, onions, and potherbs.] But now our life is dried 
up; there is not anything; we see only the manna, as 


372 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


the pauper who looks upon a morsel (bestowed) by the 
hands. Alas for the people whose food is bread from the 
heavens! And so murmured they, because the manna 
was like coriander-seed, round, when it came down from 
the heavens, and when it had been sanctified its appear- 
ance was as the likeness of Bedilcha. Aud the wicked 
people looked about, and collected, and ground it in the 
mill. But he who would, bruised it in the mortar, or 
dressed it in the pot, or made cakes of it; and the taste 
of it was like the taste of cream covered with oil. 
[Jerusatem. And the people were scattered abroad, and 
collected and ground it in mills, or crushed it in the 
mortar, or dressed it in the pan, and made cakes of it. 
And the taste of it was like the taste of pastry with 
honey.] And when the dew came down on the camp 
by night, the manna descended upon it. 

And Mosheh heard the people lamenting with their 
neighbours, who had gathered every man at the gate of 
his tent, and the displeasure of the Lord was strongly 
moved, and in the eyes of Mosheh it was evil; and 
Mosheh said before the Lord, Why hast Thou done 
ill with Thy servant, or I have not found mercy before 
Thee, that Thou shouldst have laid the toil of this people 
upon me? Have I made or borne all this people as from 
the womb? are they my children, that Thou saidst to me 
in Mizraim, Bear the toil of them with thy strength, as 
the instructor of youth beareth, until they be carried 
into the land which Thou hast sworn unto their fathers ? 
(JerusatemM. Have I made all this people, have I be- 
gotten them, that Thou hast said to me, Carry them in 
thy bosom, as the nurse? carrieth the sucklings, unto 
the land which thou didst swear unto their fathers ?] 
Whence am I to find meat to give all this people? for 
they are crying to me, saying, Give us flesh that we may 


* Or, “the conductor of children.” 


x1.] ON NUMBERS. 373 


eat. I am not able to bear all this people, for it is too 
weighty for me. But if Thou do this with me, to leave 
all the labour of them upon me, let me now die with the 
death in which the just have repose, if 1 have found 
mercy before Thee, that I may not see mine evil. 
[JervsaLem. That I may not see the evil of them who 
are Thy people.] Then spake the Lord unto Mosheh, 
Gather together in My name seventy righteous men of 
the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be elders of 
the people, and who were set over them in Mizraim, and 
bring them to the tabernacle to stand there with thee. 
And [ will be revealed in the glory of My Shekinah, and 
will speak with thee there, and will amplify the spirit of 
prophecy that is upon thee, and bestow it upon them ; 
and they shall sustain with thee the burden of the people, 
that thou mayest not bear it alone. And say thou to 
the people, Make ready against the morrow that you may 
eat flesh; because you have lamented before the Lord, 
saying, Who will give us flesh to eat? for it was better 
with usin Mizraim. The Lord therefore will give you 
flesh that you may eat. You shall not eat it one day, 
nor two days, nor five, nor ten, nor twenty days; for a 
month .of days, until the smell of it cometh forth from 
your nostrils, and it become a loathing to you; because 
you have been contemptuous against the Word of the 
Lord, whose glorious Shekinah dwelleth among you, and 
because you have wept before Him, saying, Why should 
we have come out from Mizraim ? 

But Mosheh said, Six hundred thousand footmen are 
the people among whom I dwell, and Thou hast said, 1 
will give them flesh to eat fora month of days! Shall 
the flocks of Araby or the cattle of Nabatea be killed 
for them to satisfy them, or all the fishes of the Great 
Sea be collected, that they may have enough? And 
the Lord said to Mosheh, Can any thing fail before the 


374 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


Lord? Now shalt thou see whether what I have said 
to thee shall come to pass or not. Then Mosheh went 
forth from the tabernacle, the house of the Shekinah, 
and told the people the words of the Lord. And he 
called together the seventy men, the elders of Israel, and 
placed them around the tabernacle. Aud the Lord was 
revealed in the glorious Cloud of the Shekinah, and 
spake with him. And He made enlargement of the 
(Spirit of) prophecy that was upon him, so that Mosheh 
lost nothing thereof, but He gave unto the seventy men, 
the elders: and it was that when the Spirit of prophecy 
rested upon them, they prophesied, and ceased not. 

But two men had remained in the camp; the name 
of the one Eldad, and the name of the second Medad, 
the sons of Elizaphan bar Parnak, whom Jokebed the 
daughter of Levi bare to him when Amram her hus- 
band had put her away; and to whom she had been 
espoused before she gave birth to Mosheh. And the 
Spirit of prophecy resting upon them, Eldad prophe- 
sied, and said: Behold, Mosheh shall be gathered from 
the world; and Jehoshua bar Nun, the minister of the 
camps, will be established after him, and will lead the 
people of the house of Israel, and bring them into the 
land of Kenaan, and make it their inheritance. 

Medad prophesied, and said: Behold, quails come up 
from the sea, and cover all the camp of Israel; but they 
will be to the people (a cause of) an offence. And 
both of them prophesied éogether, and said: Behold, a 
king will arise from the land of Magog, at the end of 
the days, and will assemble kings crowned with crowns, 
and captains wearing armour, and him will all nations 
obey. And they will set battle in array in the land of 
Israel against the children of the captivity ; but already 
is it provided that in the hour of distresses all of them 
shall perish by the burning blast of the flame that 


x1.] ON NUMBERS. 375 


cometh forth from beneath the Throne of Glory; and 
their carcases shall fall upon the mountains of the land 
of Israel, and the wild beasts of the field and the fowls 
of the sky shall come and consume their dead bodies. 
And afterward will all the dead of Israel live (again), 
and be feasted from the ox which hath been set apart 
for them from the beginning, and they shall receive the 
reward of their works, 

And they were of the elders who stood in the 
registers among them; but they had not gone forth to 
the tabernacle, but had hidden, to escape from the dig- 
nity ; yet they prophesied in the camp. (JERUSALEM. 
And there remained two men in the camp: the name of 
one of them Eldad, the name of the second Medad, 
upon whom rested the Holy Spirit. | 11086 prophesied, 
and said: Lo, Mosheh, the prophet, the scribe of Israel, 
will be gathered from the world, and Jehoshua bar 
Nun, his disciple, minister of the camps, will succeed. 
Medad prophesied, and said: Behold, quails come up 
from the sea; but they will be an offence to the 
children of Israel. Both of them prophesied together, 
and said: At the end, the end of the days, will Gog and 
Magog and his host come up against Jerusalem; but 
by the hand of the King Meshiha they will fall, and 
seven years of days will the children of Israel kindle 
their fire with their weapons of war, not going into the 
wilderness, nor cutting down the trees. And they 
were of the seventy sages, who went not from the taber- 
nacle, while Eldad and Medad prophesied in the camp.] 

And a certain young man ran, and told to Mosheh, 
and said: Eldad and Medad are prophesying thus in 
the camp. And Jehoshua bar Nun, the minister of 
Mosheh, answered and said: Ribboni Mosheh, pray for 
mercy before the Lord, that the Spirit of prophecy may 
be withheld from them. But Mosheh said to him, 


376 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


Because they prophesy concerning me that I am to be 
gathered from the world, and that thou art to minister 
after me, art thou jealous for my sake? I would that 
all the Lord’s people were prophets, and that He would 
bestow the Spirit of prophecy upon them. 

And Mosheh proceeded to the camp, he and all the 
elders of Israel. And the wind of a tempest went 
forth, and came violently from before the Lord, so as to 
have swept the world away, but for the righteousness of 
Mosheh and Aharon: and it blew over the Great Sea, 
and made the quails fly from the Great Sea, and settle 
wherever there was place in the camp, as a day’s 
journey northward and southward, and at the height as 
of two cubits; they flew upon the face of the ground, 
and went upon their bellies, so that (the people) were 
not wearied while they collected them. And they who 
had been wanting in faith arose: and all that day, and 
all the night, and all the day that followed, they gath- 
ered the quails; even he who was lame and infirm 
gathered ten korin, [Jerusatem. Ten korin,] and they 
spread them abroad round about tle camps. 

The wicked ate of the flesh, yet offered no thanks- 
giving to Him who had given it to them: but while 
the flesh was between their teeth, and not consumed, 
the anger of the Lord waxed strong against the evil 
people, and the Lord slew the people with a very great 
mortality. And he called the name of that place, The 
Graves of the Desirers of Flesh; for there they buried 
the people who had desired flesh. And from the 
Graves of the Desirers the people journeyed to Hat- 
seroth, and they were in Hatseroth. 

311. And Miriam and Aharon spake against Mosheh 
words that were not becoming with respect to the 
Kushaitha whom the Kushaee had caused Mosheh to 
take when he had fled from Pharoh, but whom he had 


ON NUMBERS. 377‏ | ל 


sent away because they had given him the queen of 
Kush, and he had sent her away. [Jerusatem. And 
Miriam and Aharon spake against Mosheh about the 
Kushaitha whom he had taken. But observe, the 
Kushite wife was not Zipporah, the wife of Mosheh, but 
a certain Kushaitha, of a flesh different from every 
creature: whereas Zipporah, the wife of Mosheh, was 
of a comely form and beautiful countenance, and more 
abundant in good works than all the women of her 
age.| And they said, Hath the Lord spoken only 
with Mosheh, that he should be separated from the 
married life? Hath 116 not spoken with us also? 
And it was heard before the Lord. But the man 
Mosheh was more bowed down in his mind than all 
the children of men upon the face of the earth; neither 
cared he for their words. 

And the Lord said to Mosheh, to Aharon, and to 
Miriam, Come forth, you three, to the tabernacle. And 
those three went forth. And the Glory of the Lord was 
revealed in the Cloud of Glory, and He stood at the door 
of the tabernacle, and called Aharon and Miriam: and 
those two came forth. And He said, Hear now My 
words, while I speak. Have any of the prophets who 
have arisen from the days of old been spoken with as 
Mosheh hath been? To those (prophets) the Word of 
the Lord hath been revealed in apparition, speaking with 
them ina dream. Wot so is the way with Mosheh My 
servant; in all the house of Israel My people he is 
faithful. [Jerusatem. Not so is My servant Mosheh 
among all the company (of the prophets), the chief of 
the chiefs of My court, faithful is he.] Speaker with 
speaker have I spoken with him, who hath separated 
himself from the married life; but in vision, and not 
with mystery, revealed 1 Myself to him at the bush, and 
he beheld the likeness of My Shekmah. And why have 


378 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


you not feared to speak such words of My servant 
Mosheh? And the glory of the Lord’s Shekinah as- 
cended, and went. And the glorious Cloud of the 
Lord’s Shekinah went up from above the tabernacle ; 
and, behold, Miriam was seized with the leprosy. And 
Aharon looked upon Miriam, and, behold, she had 
been smitten with leprosy. And Aharon said 0 
Mosheh, I beseech of thee, my lord, not to lay upon 
us the sin we have foolishly committed, and by which 
we have transgressed. I entreat thee that Miriam, 
our sister, may not be defiled with leprosy in the 
tent, as the dead, for it is with her as with the in- 
fant 5 which, having well fulfilled the time of the womb, 
perishes at the birth: so Miriam was with us in the 
land of Mizraim, seeing us in our captivity, our disper- 
sion, our servitude ; but now, when the time hath come 
for our going forth to possess the land of Israel, behold, 
she is kept back from us. I entreat thee, my lord, to 
pray for her, that her righteousness may not come to 
nought among the congregation. ([JeRgusatem. 11. 
That we have sinned. 12. Let not Miriam, our sister, 
bea leper, polluted in the tent as one dead. For it is with 
her as with the infant who hath passed nine months in its 
mother’s womb, in water and in heat, without injury, but 
which after all perishes at the birth. So was Miriam, our 
sister, carried away with us into the desert, and with us 
in our trouble; but now the time hath come that we 
may enter into the land of Israel, why should she be 
kept from us? Pray now for the dead body thal it 
may live, and that her righteousness may not fail.] 
And Mosheh did pray, and seek mercy before the Lord, 
saying: I pray through the compassions of the merciful 
God, O 131028, who hast power over the life of all flesh, 
heal her, I beseech thee. [Jervsateu. O Eloha, who 


3 T have translated freely just here. 


ON NUMBERS. 379‏ [זנזצ 


healest all flesh, heal her.] And the Lord said to 
Mosheh, If her father had corrected her, would she not 
have been disgraced, and secluded seven days? But 
to-day, when I correct her, much more right is it that 
she should be dishonoured fourteen days: yet shall it 
suffice to seclude her seven days without the camp; 
and for thy righteousness will I make the Cloud of My 
Glory, the tabernacle, the ark, and all Israel, tarry until 
the time that she is healed, and then re-admitted. And 
Miriam was kept apart without the camp for seven days, 
and the people went not forward until the time that 
Miriam was healed. 

XIIT. But though Miriam the prophetess had made 
herself liable to be stricken with leprosy in this world, 
the doctrine is ample that in the world to come (there 
remaineth a reward) for the just, and for them who keep 
the commandments of the law. And because Miriam 
the prophetess had watched for a little hour to know 
what would be the fate of \osheh; (Exod. .ג‎ ;( for the 
sake of that merit all Israel, numbering sixty myriads, 
being eighty legions, and the Cloud of Glory, the taber- 
nacle, and the well, went not, nor proceeded, till the 
time that she was healed: and afterward the people 
journeyed from Hatseroth, and encamped in the wilder- 
ness of Pharan. [JeRusatem. But though Miriam the 
prophetess had become liable to leprosy, we have ample 
doctrine that by keeping the commandments and pre- 
cepts a man who doeth even a little shall receive 
a great reward. Thus, because Miriam the pro- 
phetess had stood on the river bank for a little hour, 
to know what would be the end of Mosheh, the 
sous of Israel, being sixty myriads, and eighty legions 
in number, and the Cloud of Glory and the well, now 
moved not, nor went forward from their place, till the 
time that she was healed of her leprosy; but after she 


380 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


was healed the people journeyed from Hatseroth, and 
encamped in the wilderness of Pharan. 


SECTION SAAVEL 
SHALACH. 


the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Send‏ פא 
thou keen-sighted men who may explore the land of‏ 
Kenaan, which I will give to the children of Israel; one‏ 
man for each tribe of their fathers, thou shalt send‏ 
from the presence of all their leaders. And Mosheh‏ 
sent them from the wilderness of Pharan, according to‏ 
the mouth of the Word of the Lord; all of them acute‏ 
men, who had been appointed heads over the sons of‏ 
Israel. And these are the names of the twelve men,‏ 
the explorers: the messenger of the tribe of Reuben,‏ 
Shamua bar Zakkur; of the tribe of Shemeon, Shaphat‏ 
bar Hori; for Jehudah, Kaleb bar Jephunneh; for‏ 
Issakar, Yiggeal bar Joseph; for Ephraim, Hoshea bar‏ 
Nun; for Benjamin, Palti bar Raphu; for Zebulon,‏ 
Gadiel bar Zodi; for Menasheh, Gaddi bar Susi; for‏ 
Dan, Ammiel bar Gemmalli; for Asher, Sether bar‏ 
Michael; for Naphtali, Nachbi bar Vaphsi; and for‏ 
Gad, Geuel bar Machi. These are the names of the men‏ 
whom Mosheh sent to explore the land; and when Mosheh‏ 
saw his humility, he called Hoshea bar Nun Jehoshua.‏ 

And Mosheh sent them to survey the land of Kenaan, 
and said to them, Go up on this side by the south, and 
ascend the mountain, and survey the country, what it is, 
and the people who dwell in it; whether they be strong 
or weak, few or many; what the land is in which they 
dwell, whether good or bad; what cities they inhabit, 
whether they live in towns that are open or walled; and 
what the reputation of the land, whether its productions 


xu. ] ON NUMBERS. 381 


are rich or poor, and the trees of it fruitful or not. 
And do valiantly, and bring back some of the fruit of 
the land. (Jerusatem. And what the land is, whether 
the fruits of it are rich: or trees. ] 

And the day on which they went was the nineteenth 
of the month of Sivan, (about) the days of the first 
grapes. They went up, therefore, and explored the 
country, from the wilderness of Zin, unto the roads by 
which thou comest unto Antiochia. They went up 
from the side of the south and came to Hebron, where 
were Achiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, sons of Anak the 
giant. Now Hebron was built seven years before Tanis 
in Mizraim. They came then to the stream of the 
grapes (or bunches, e¢A/a/a), and cut down from thence 
a branch, with one cluster of grapes, and carried it on a 
staff on the shoulders of two of them, and also took they 
of the pomegranates and the figs. [JuRusatem. And 
they came to the stream of the grape clusters, and cut 
down from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, 
and carried it on a rod between two men; and also of 
the pomegranates and of the figs.] Now that place 
they call the stream of the cluster, from the branch 
which the sons of Israel cut down there; and wine was 

ropping from it like a stream. 

And they returned from exploring the land on the 
eighth day of the month Ab, at the end of forty days. 
And they came to Mosheh and Aharon, and all the congre- 
gation of the children of Israel in the wilderness of Pharan, 
at Rekem, and returned them word, to them and the whole 
congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land. 

And they recounted to him, and said: We went into 
the country to which thou didst send us; and it indeed 
produceth milk and honey, and this is the fruit of it. 
But the people who inhabit the country are strong, and 
the fortified cities they inhabit very great ; and we saw 


382 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (CHAP. 


also there the sons of Anak the giant. The Amalekites 
dwell in the south, the Hittites, Jebusites, and Amorites 
in the mountains; but the Kenaanites dwell by the 
sea, and by the bank of the Jordan. 

And Kaleb stilled the people, and made them listen 
to Mosheh, and said: Let us go up and possess it, for 
we are able to take it. [Jerusatew. And he stilled.] 
But the men who had gone up with him said, We are 
not able to go up to the people, for they are stronger 
than we. And they brought out an evil report about 
the land which they had surveyed, to the sons of Israel, 
saying, The country through which we have passed to 
explore it is a land that killeth its inhabitants with 
diseases ; and all the people who are in it are giants, 
masters of evil ways. And there we saw the giants, the 
sons of Anak, of the race of the giants; and we ap- 
peared to ourselves to be as locusts; and so we 
appeared to them. 

XIV. And all the congregation lifted up and gave 
forth their voice, and the people wept that night: and 
it was confirmed (as a punishment) that they should 
weep on that night * in their generations. And all the 
sons of Israel murmured against Mosheh and Aharon, 
and said: Would that we had died in the land of 
Mizraim, or that we may die in this wilderness! Why 
is the Lord bringing us into this land, to fall by the 
sword of the Kenaanaah, and our wives and little ones 
to become a prey? Will it not be better to return into 
Mizraim? And one man said to his brother, Let us 
appoint a king over us for achief, and return to 
Mizraim. (Jerusates. Let us set a king over us, 
and go round to Mizraim. | 

And Mosheh and Aharon bowed upon their faces before 


* The ninth of Ab, a day remarkable for a succession of calamities in 
the history of the Jews, 


XIV. | ON NUMBERS. 383 


all the congregation of the sons of Israel; and Jehoshua 
bar Nun and Kaleb bar Jephunneh of the explorers of 
the land rent their clothes, and spake to the congre- 
gation, saying: The land we went to see is an exceed- 
ingly good land. If the Lord hath pleasure in us, He 
will bring us into this land, and give it us, a land pro- 
ducing milk and honey. Only do not rebel against the 
commandments of .the Lord, and you need not fear the 
people of the land, for they are delivered into our hands ; 
the strength of their power hath failed from them, but 
the Word of the Lord will be our helper; fear them 
not. But all the congregation said they would stone 
them with stones. 

And the glorious Shekinah of the Lord was revealed 
in bright clouds at the tabernacle. And the Lord said 
to Mosheh, How long will this people provoke Me to 
anger? How long will they disbelieve in My Word, 
for all the signs 1 have wrought among them? I will 
strike them with deadly plague and destroy them, and will 
appoint thee for a people greater and stronger than 
they. But Mosheh said, The children of the Mizraee, 
whom Thou didst drown in the sea, will hear that 
Thou didst bring up this people from among them by 
Thy power, and will say with exultation to the people 
of this land, who have heard that Thou art the Lord, 
whose Shekinah dwelleth among this people, in whose 
eyes, O Lord, the Glory of Thy Shekinah appeared on the 
mountain of Sinai, and who there received Thy law; 
and over whom Thy Cloud hath shadowed, that neither 
heat nor rain might hurt them ; and whom in the pillar 
of the Cloud Thou hast led on by day, that the moun- 
tains and hills might be brought low, and the valleys 
lifted up, and hast guided in the pillar of Fire by night : 
and after all these miracles wilt Thou kill this people as 
one man? Then the nations who have heard the fame 


6% TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


of Thy power will speak, saying: Because there was no 
(more) strength with the Lord to bring this people into 
the land which swearing He had promised to them, He 
hath killed them in the wilderness! And now, I 
beseech Thee, magnify Thy power, O Lord, and let 
mercies be fulfilled upon us, and appoint me for (this) great 
people, as Thou hast spoken, saving: The Lord is long- 
suffering, and nigh in mercy, forgiviyg sins and covering 
transgressions, justifying such as return to His law; 
though them who turn not He will not absolve, but will 
visit the sins of wicked fathers upon rebellious children 
unto the third and fourth generation. JERUSALEM. 
The Lord is long-suffering, far from anger, near in 
mercy, multiplying the exercise of goodness and truth ; 
though the Lord will not justify sinners, but will remem- 
ber, in the day of judgment, the guilt of wicked fathers 
upon rebellious children.] Pardon now the sin of this 
people according to Thy great goodness, even as Thou 
hast forgiven them from the time that they came out 
from Mizraim until now. And the Lord said, I have 
forgiven, according to thy word. (JERusaLem. And 
the Word of the Lord said, Behold, I have absolved 
and pardoned, according to thy word.] Nevertheless, 
by oath have I sworn that the whole earth shall be filled 
with the glory of the Lord. Because all the men who 
have beheld My glory, and My signs, which I have 
wrought in Mizraim and in the Desert, have tempted 
Me now ten times, and have not obeyed My Word: by 
oath have I said this, That they shall not see the land 
which I covenanted to their fathers ; and the generation 
which have been provokeful before me shall not behold 
it. [Jerusatem. For I have uplifted My hand with 
an oath.] But My servant, Kaleb, because there is in 
him another spirit, and he hath entirely followed (in) 
My fear, him will I bring into the land to which he 


XIV. | ON NUMBERS. 385 


went, aud his children shall possess it. But the Ama- 
lekites and Kenaanites dwell in the valley: to-morrow 
turn you and go into the wilderness by the way of the 
Red Sea. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh and Aharon, saying : 
How long (shall I bear with) this evil congregation who 
gather together against Me? The murmurs of the sons 
of Israel which they murmur against Me are heard 
before Me. Say to them, By oath I decree that according 
to (what) you have spoken, so will I do to you. In 
this wilderness your carcasses shall fall, the whole 
number of all who were counted from twenty years old 
and upward, who have murmured against Me, By a fast 
oath (have I sworn) that you shall not enter into the 
land which I covenanted in My Word to give you to 
inhabit, except Kaleb bar Jephunneh and Jehoshua bar 
Nun. But your children, who you said would be a 
prey, them will I bring in, and they shall know the 
land which you rejected; but your carcasses shall fall 
in this wilderness. Yet your children will have to 
wander in this wilderness forty years, and bear your sins 
until the time that your carcasses are consumed in the 
wilderness. According to the number of the days in 
which you were exploring the land, forty days, a day for 
a year, a day for a year, you shall receive for your sins, 
forty years, and shall know (the consequence) of your 
murmuring against Me. I the Lord have decreed in 
My Word,—if I have not made a decree in My Word 
against all this evil congregation who have gathered a 
rebel against Me in this wilderness, that they shall be 
consumed and die there. 

But the men whom Mosheh had sent to explore the 
land, and who returning had made the whole congregation 
murmur against him, by bringing forth an evil report of 
the land, (even those) men who had brought forth the 


386 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


evil of the report of the land died, on the seventh day of 
the month 01 Elul, with worms coming from their navels, 
and with worms devouring their tongues; and were 
buried in death from before the Lord. Only Jehoshua 
bar Nun and Kaleb bar Jephunneh survived of those 
men who had gone to explore the land. 

And Mosheh spake these words with all the sons of 
Israel, and the people mourned greatly. And they 
arose in the morning and went up to the top of the 
mountain, saying: Behold, we will go up to the place 
of which the Lord hath spoken; for we have 
sinned. But Mosheh said, Why will you act against 
the decree of the Word of the Lord? But it will not 
prosper with you. Go not up, for the Lord’s Shekinah 
dwelleth not among you; and the ark, the tabernacle, 
and the Cloud of Glory proceed not; and be not 
crushed before your enemies. For the Amalekites and 
lenaanites are there prepared for you, and you will fall 
slaughtered by the sword. For, because you have turned 
away from the service of the Lord, the Word of the 
Lord will not be your Helper. But they armed them- 
selves in the dark before the morning, to go up to the 
height of the mountain: but the ark, in which was the 
covenant of the Lord, and Mosheh, stirred not from the 
midst of the camp. And the Amalekites and Kenaanites 
who dwelt in that mountain came down and slaughtered 
and destroyed them, and drave them hard to de- 
struction. 

XV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them: When 
you have entered into the land of your habitation which 
I will give you, and you may make an oblation upon 
the altar before the Lord, burnt offering or consecrated 
sacrifice for release of a vow, or by free-will offering ; or 
at the time of your feasts you offer what is acceptable 


ON NUMBERS. 387‏ [.טצ 


to the Lord of the world, to be received with approval 
before the Lord from the herd or from the flock : let 
the man who offers his oblation before the Lord bring 
a mincha of a tenth of flour mingled with the fourth of 
a hina of olive oil; and wine of grapes for a libation, the 
fourth of a hina, to be made upon the burnt offering or 
hallowed sacrifice for one lamb. Or for a ram, let him 
perform a minchia of two tenths of flour mingled with the 
third ofa hin of olive oil,and wine of grapes let him offer in 
a vase for the libation, the third of a hin, to be received 
with acceptance before the Lord. But when he maketh 
a bullock a burnt offering, or a sacrifice for release from 
a vow, or a hallowed sacrifice before the Lord, let him 
bring for the bullock a mincha of three tenths of flour 
mixed with half of a hin of olive oil, and wine of grapes 
half a hin, for a libation to be received with acceptance 
before the Lord. So let him do with each bullock, with 
each ram, and each lamb, whether it be from the lambs 
or the kids: according to the number of the bullocks 
or lambs or goats with which the oblation is made so 
shall you do, each according to their number. All who 
are native born in Isracl, and not of the sons of the 
Gentiles, shall so make these libations in offering an 
oblation to be received with acceptance before the 
Lord. And when a sojourner who sojourneth with 
you, or whoever is among you now, or in your gene- 
rations, will bring an oblation to be received with 
favour before the Lord, as you do so shall he. For the 
whole congregation there is one statute, for you and the 
sojourner who sojourneth ; it is an everlasting statute 
for your generations; as with you, so shall it be with 
the sojourner before the Lord. One law and one judg- 
ment shall be for you and for the sojourner who 
sojourneth with you. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 

a A 


383 TARGUM OF PALESTINE חס‎ 


with the sons of Israel, and say to them: When you 
have entered the land into which I will bring you, and 
you eat the bread of the produce of it, (not rice, nor 
millet, nor pulse,) you shall set apart a separation before 
the Lord. Of the first of your dough one cake of 
twenty-four you shall set apart as a separation for the 
priest; as with the separation from the threshing floor, 
so shall vou set it apart. Of the first of your dough 
you shall give a separation before the Lord in your gene- 
rations. [JeERrusaLem. Of the first of your dough you 
shall give a separation unto the Name of the Lord.] 

And should you have erred, and not performed some 
one of all these commandments which the Lord hath 
spoken with Mosheh; whatsoever the Lord hath com- 
manded you by Mosheh, from the day He commanded it, 
and thenceforth unto your generations—if without the 
knowledge of the congregation sin hath been committed 
through ignorance, let al] the congregation make one 
young bullock a burnt offering to be received with 
acceptance before the Lord, with his mincha and liba- 
tion as are proper; and one kid of the goats without 
mixture for a sin offering; and let the priest make 
atonement for all the congregation of the sons of Israel, 
and it shall be forgiven them; for it was an error, and 
they have brought their oblation, an offering before the 
Lord, even an offering for their sin have they presented 
before the Lord for their error; and all the congrega- 
tion of Israel shall be forgiven before the Lord, and 
the sojourners who sojourn among them; for an error 
hath occurred to the people. 

And if any one man sin through ignorance, let him 
bring one goat of the year without mixture for a sin 
offering, and let the priest make atonement for the man 
who hath erred in sinning through ignorance before the 
Lord to atone for him, that it may be forgiven him; as 


xv.] ON NUMBERS. 389 


well for the native-born of the children of Israel, and for 
the strangers who sojourn among you, there shall be one 
law for him who transgresseth through ignorance: but a 
man who transgresseth with presumption, whether of the 
native-born or strangers, and who turneth not away 
from his sin before the Lord,—he causeth anger, and 
that man shall perish from among his people; for, the 
primal word which the Lord commanded on Sinai he 
hath despised, and hath made the commandment of 
circumcisicn vain; with destruction in this world shall 
that man be destroyed; in the world that cometh shall 
he give account of his sin at the great day of judgment. 
[Jernvssatem. Because he hath despised the Word of 
the Lord, and broken His commandments, that soul 
shall perish, and shall bear his sin. ] 

And while the sons of Israel were dwelling in the 
wilderness, the decree of the Sabbath was known to 
them, but the punishment (for the profanation) of the 
Sabbath was not known. And there arose a man of the 
house of Joseph, and said with himself: I will go and 
pull up wood on the Sabbath day; and witnesses saw 
it, and told Mosheh; and Mosheh sought instruction 
from the presence of the Lord, that he might teach me 
judgment, and make known the discipline of all the 
house of Israel. And the witnesses of the man who 
pulled up and collected wood came, and, after they had 
monished him, and he had wounded the witnesses who 
had found him pulling up wood, (Jervsates. Steal- 
ing wood, brought him to Mosheh and Aharon, and all 
the congregation. This is one of four judgments which 
were brought before Mosheh the prophet, which he 
adjudged according to the Word of the Holy. Of these 
judgments some related to money, and some to life. In 
the judgments regarding money Moslieh was prompt, 


5 Be memrieh, “in his word, —his inmost self, or personality.” 


390 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHAP. 


but in those affecting life he was deliberate, and in each 
he said, 1 have not heard,—to teach the princes of the 
future Sanhedrin to be prompt in decisions on mammon, 
and deliberate in those that involved life, nor to be 
ashamed to inquire for counsel in what may be difficult, 
forasmuch as Mosheh the Rabbi of Israel himself had 
need to say, I have not heard. Therefore put they him 
in confinement, because they had not yet heard the 
explanation of the judgment they should execute upon 
him. [Jxrusatem. This is one of four cases which 
are written above, on that of the blasphemer, and they 
who were defiled by the dead. And they put him in 
ward till the time when it should be plainly showed to 
them from before the Lord, with what judgment they 
were to deal with him.] 

And the Lord said to Mosheh: The man shall be 
surely put to death; the whole congregation shall stone 
him with stones without the camp; and the congrega- 
tion led him forth without the camp, and stoned him with 
stones that he died, as the Lord had commanded Mosheh. 

And the Lord said unto Mosheh: Speak with the 
sons of Israel, and bid them make for themselves fringes,® 
not of threads, nor of yarns, nor of fibres, but after a 
manner of their own (/eswmhon) shall they make them, 
and shall cut off the heads of their filaments, and suspend 
by five ligatures, four in the midst of three,’ upon the 
four corners of their garment in which they enwrap 
themselves, unto their generations; and they shall put 
upon the edge of their robes an embroidery of hyacinth 
(shezir de-thikela). [JervusaLemM. And let them make 
to themselves fringes for the edges of their robes, through- 


5 Tsitsith, either a fringe or a tassel, probably the latter. sits 
sometimes means a flower. In the similar precept, Deut. xxii, 12, the 
word employed is gedilim, tufts or tassels of a conical form, like a flower 
bud. Onkelos has keruspidin, “ borderings.” 

Arbea 0600 telatha. (Query.)‏ ד 


ON NUMBERS. 391‏ [.נטצ 


out their generations, and put upon the fringes of their 
robes an embroidery of hyacinth.] And this shall 
be to you a precept for fringes, that you may look 
upon them at the time when you dress yourselves daily, 
and remember all My commandments to do them, and 
not go aside to wander after the imaginations of your 
heart and the sight of your eyes, after which you have 
gone astray. To the end that you may remember and 
perform all My precepts, and be holy, like the angels 
who minister before the Lord your God. I am the Lord 
your God who have delivered and brought you free out 
of the land of Mizraim, to be to you Eloha. Iam the 
Lord your God. 


SECTION XXAVIII. 
KORACH. 


XVI. Bor Korach bar Jizhar bar Kehath, bar Levi, 
with Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, and On bar 
Peleth, of the Beni-Reuben, took his robe which was all 
of hyacinth, and rose up boldly, and in the face of 
Mosheh appointed a (different) observance in the matter 
ef the hyacinth. [Jerusatem. And Korach took 
counsel], and made division.] Mosheh had said, I have 
heard from the mouth of the Holy One, whose Name be 
Blessed, that the fringes are to be of white, with one 
filament of hyacinth; but Korach and his companions 
made garments with their fringes altogether of hyacinth, 
which the Lord had not commanded ; and two hundred 
and fifty men of the sons of Israel, who had been made 
leaders of the congregation at the time when the 
journeys and encampments were appointed, by expres- 


392 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


sion of their names, supported him. And they gathered 
together against Mosheh and Aharon, and said to them : 
Let the authority you have (hitherto had) suffice you, 
for all the congregation are holy, and the Lord’s 
Shekinah dwelleth among them; and why should you 
be magnified over the church of the Lord ? 

And Mosheh heard, as if every one of them was 
jealous of his wife, and would have them drink of the 
trial-water on account of Mosheh; and he fell on his 
face for shame. And he spake with Norach and all the 
company who supported him, saying: In the morning 
the Lord will make known him whom He hath approved, 
and hath consecrated to approach unto His service, and 
who it hath pleased [lim should come nigh in minis- 
tering unto Him. Do this: Let Korach and all the 
company of lis helpers take censers, put fire in them, 
and lay incense upon them before the Lord, to-morrow ; 
and the man whom the Lord shall make known, he it is 
who is consecrated. Let it suffice to you, sons of Levi. 

And Mosheh said to Korach and his kindred: Hear 
now, ye sons of Levi: Is it too little for you that the 
God of Israel hath set you apart from the congregation 
of Israel to draw near to do His service, to fulfil the 
ministry of the Lord’s tabernacle, and to stand before 
the congregation to minister to them? But so hath he 
brought migh thee and ali the sons of Levi with thee-; 
and now, do ye demand the high-priesthood also? 
Therefore art thou and all the company of thy helpers 
gathered together against the Word of the Lord: and 
Aharon, what is he, that you murmur against him ? 

And Mosheh sent men to summon Dathan and Abiram, 
the sons of Ehiab, to the house of the great judgment; 
but they said, We will not come up. Is it a little 
thing, that thou hast brought us from Mizraim, a land 
that produceth milk and honey, to kill us in the 


XVI. ] ON NUMBERS. 393 


wilderness, that ruling thou mayest domineer over us? 
Neither hast thou brought us into the land producing 
milk and honey, to give us an inheritance of fields and 
vineyards. Wilt thou blind the eves of the men of that 
land, that thou mayest overcome them? We shall not 
go up thither. And Mosheh was very wroth, and said 
before the Lord: I beseech thee, look not upon their 
offering, the portion of their hands; for not an ass have 
I taken from one of them, nor to any of them done an 
injury. [JeRnusaLem. And it was very grievous to 
Mosheh, and he said before the Lord: Regard not the 
portion of their hands; for not an ass have 1 taken from 
one of them, nor to one of them done wrong. ] 

And Mosheh said to Korach, Thou, and all the com- 
pany of thy helpers, come together to the house of 
judgment before the Lord to-morrow, thou, they, and 
Aharon. And take every one his censer, and put 
incense upon them; and let each otfer his censer before 
the Lord, two hundred and fifty censers; thou also, 
and Aharon, each man his censer. And they took 
every one his censer, and put fire in them and sweet 
incense with it, and stood at the door of the tabernacle 
of ordinance on one side; but Mosheh and Aharon on 
the other side. And Korach gathered to them the 
whole congregation at the door of the tabernacle. And 
he had brought forth, from his riches, two treasures 
which he had found among the treasures of Joseph 
filled with silver and gold, and sought with them to 
drive the riches of Mosheh and Aharon out of the 
world; but the glory of the Lord revealed itself to all 
the congregation. 

And the Lord spake with Moslieh and Aharon, 
saying : Separate yourselves from among this congrega- 
tion, that I may destroy them quickly. But they bowed 
down upon their faces in prayer, and said: El Eloha, 

5 5 


394 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cmap. 


who hast put the spirit of life in the bodies of the 
children of men, and from whom is given the spirit of 
all flesh,—if one man hath sinned, wilt Thou be angry 
with all the congregation? [JerusaLem. And they 
bowed on their faces, and said: O God, who rulest over 
the spirit of all flesh,—if one man hath sinned, wilt 
Thou be wroth against all the people ?] And the Lord 
spake with Mosheh, saying: I have accepted thy prayer 
for the congregation. Now speak thou with them, 
saying: Remove away from the tents of Korach, 
Dathan, and Abiram. 

And Mosheh arose, and went to remonstrate with 
Dathan and Abiram ; and the elders of Israel followed. 
And he said to the congregation, Remove now away 
from the tents of these men of sin, who have been 
worthy of death from (the days of) their youth in 
Mizraim, for they betrayed my secret when I slew the 
Mizraite; they provoked the Lord at the sea; at Alush 
they profaned the Sabbath, and now are they gathered 
together against the Word of the Lord; and therefore 
is it fit that their wealth should be scattered abroad and 
destroyed. ‘ouch not, then, anything that is theirs, 
uor be smitten on account of their sins. And they 
went apart from the tents of Korach, Dathan, and 
Abiram round about. But Dathan and Abiram came 
out, with reviling words, and arose and provoked 
Mosheh at the door of their tents, with their wives, 
their sons, and their little ones. 

And Mosheh said, By this you shall know that the 
Lord hath sent me to do all these works, and that (I do 
them) not from the thoughts of my heart. If these 
men die after the manner of dying in which all men 
die, and the (common) account of all men be accounted 
upon them, the Lord hath not sent me. [JERUSALEM. 
For not with my own heart have I devised them. If 


ON NUMBERS, 395‏ [.נטצ 


these die by the death with which the sons of men die, 
and the account of all men be accounted upon them, 
the Lord hath not sent me.] But if a death which 
hath not been created since the days of the world be 
now created for them, and if a mouth for the earth, 
which hath not been made from the beginning, be 
created now, and the earth open her mouth and swallow 
them and all they have, and they go down alive into 
Sheul, you will understand that these men have 
provoked the Lord to anger. 

And it came to pass, when he had finished speaking 
these words, the earth beneath them clave asunder ; 
and the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them 
up, and the men of their houses, and all the men who 
adhered to Korach, and all their substance. And they 
went down with all that they had alive into Sheul ; and 
the earth closed upon them, and they perished from the 
midst of the congregation. And all Israel who were 
round about them fled from the terror of their voice, as 
they cried and said, Righteous is the Lord, and His 
judgment is truth, and the words of His servant 
Mosheh are truth; but we are wicked who have 
rebelled against him: and the children of Israel fled 
when they heard; for they said, Lest the earth swallow 
us up. And a fire came out in wrath from before the 
Lord, and devoured the two hundred and fifty men who 
offered the incense. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Bid 
Elazar bar Aharon the priest to take away the censers 
from among the burnings, and scatter the fire hither 
and thither; for the censers of these guilty men who 
have been punished by the destruction of their lives are 
consecrated; and make of them broad plates for the 
covering of the altar, because they bare them before the 
Lord, therefore they are consecrate; and they shall be 


396 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


for a sign to the children of Israel. [Jerusateu. For 
a sign.] And Elazar the priest took the brasen censers 
which they who had been burned had carried, and beat 
them out for a covering for the body of the altar, as 
they had before used them for the service of the altar: 
for a memorial to the sons of Israel, that no common 
man, who is not of the sons of Aharon, may offer 
incense before the Lord; and that no man should 
behave himself factiously to obtain the priesthood, as 
did Korach and the company of his helpers ; and whose 
end would be to perish, not (indeed) with a death like 
that of Korach and his company, by being burned by 
fire, and being swallowed up by the earth, but punished 
with leprosy : 5ב--5‎ when the Lord said to Mosheh, 
Put thy hand into thy bosom, and his hand was 
stricken with leprosy ; so would it be with him. 

But on the following day the whole congregation 
murmured against Mosheh and Aharon, saying: You 
have been the occasion of the judgment of death against 
the people of the Lord. And it was, that when the 
congregation had gathered against Mosheh and Aharon 
to kill them, they looked towards the Tabernacle of 
Ordinance, and, behold, the Cloud of the Glory of the 
Shekinah covered it, and the Glory of the Lord was 
revealed there. And Mosheh and Aharon went from 
the congregation to the door of the tabernacle. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying : Separate 
from the midst of this congregation, and I will con- 
sume them at once. But they bowed themselves on 
their faces in prayer. (JERUSALEM. Separate from the 
people of this congregation, and I will destroy them in 
a brief moment. But they bowed down on their faces 
in prayer. | 

And Mosheh said to Aharon, Take the censer, put 


5 Compare the case of King Uzziah. 


XVII] ON NUMBERS. 397 


fire in it from the altar, and sweet incense on the fire; 
bear it quickly into the congregation, and make atone- 
ment for them: for a destruction like that which con- 
sumed them in Horeb, whose name is Burning, hath 
begun by commandment to kill, from the presence of 
the Lord. And Aharon took, as Mosheh had said, and 
ran into the midst of the congregation, and, behold, the 
destructive burning had begun to destroy the people: 
but he put on incense, and made atonement for the 
people. And Aharon stood iu the midst, between the 
dead and the living, with the censer, and interceded in 
prayer; and the plague was restrained. But the 
number who had died by the plague was fourteeen 
thousand and seven hundred, beside those who had died 
in the schism of Korach. And Aharon returned to 
Mosheh at the door of the tabernacle; and the plague 
was staved. 

XVII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying : 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and take of them seve- 
rally a rod, according to the house of their fathers ; 
twelve rods; and upon each rod thou shalt inscribe 
its (tribe) name. But onthe rod of Levi thou shalt 
write the name of Aharon: for there is but one rod for 
each head of their father’s house. And thou shalt lay 
them up in the tabernacle before the testimony, where 
My Word is appointed to meet you. And the man 
whose rod germinateth shall be he whom I approve to 
minister before Me; and I will make the murmurings 
of the sons of Israel with which they have murmured 
against you to cease from Me. 

Mosheh spake, therefore, with the sons of Israel, and 
the chiefs of them gave him severally their rods, accord- 
ing to the house of their fathers, twelve rods; and 
Aharon’s rod was among theirs. And Moshch laid up 
the rods before the Lord in the tabernacle of ordinance. 


398 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


And it came to pass, the day after, when Mosheh went 
into the tabernacle of the testimony, that, behold, the 
rod of Aharon had germinated; it had shot forth 
branches, blossomed with flowers, and, in the same 
night, produced and ripened almonds. (JERUSALEM. 
And the day following Mosheh went into the tabernacle 
of testimony, and, behold, the rod of Aharon, of lis house 
of Levi, had germinated, put forth buds, bloomed with 
flowers, and ripened almonds, the fruit of the almond. | 

And Mosheh brought out all the rods from before 
the Lord to all the sons of Israel, who recognised and 
took severally their rods. And the Lord said to Mosheh, 
Take back the rod of Aharon, before the testimony, to 
be kept for a sign for the rebellious children, that 
their murmurings may cease from before Me, lest they 
die. And Mosheh did so; as the Lord commanded so 
did he. 

And the sons of Israei spake with Mosheh, saying : 
Behold, some of us have been consumed with the flaming 
fire; some of us have been swallowed up by the earth, 
and have perished! = 13611010, we are accounted as if all 
of us are to be destroyed. Any one who approaches the 
tabernacle must die: are we not doomed to destruction ? 
[Jerusitem. And the sons of Israel spake, saying: 
Behold, we are consumed, and are all of us as if 
destroved. Some of us have died of the plague, and 
some of us the earth, opening her mouth, hath swal- 
lowed up. j 

XVIII. And the Lord said unto Aharon, Thou, and 
thy sons, and the house of thy fathers with thee, shall 
bear the iniquity of the consecrated things, when you 
nave not been heedful in offering them; and thou and 
thy sons with thee shall bear the iniquity of your priest- 
hood, when you have not been heedful of their separa- 
tions. And thy brethren also of the tribe of Levi, who 


XVI] ON NUMBERS. 399 


are called by the name of Amram thy father, shalt thou 
bring near to thee, that they may consociate with and 
minister to thee. But thou, and thy sons with thee, 
(only) shall stand before the tabernacle of the testi- 
mony. And they shall keep thy charge, and have charge 
of all the tabernacle; yet to the vessels of the sanc- 
tuary and to the altar they are not to come near, lest 
both they and you die. And they shall have appoint- 
ment from thee without, and keep charge of the taber- 
nacle of ordinance for all its service; and a stranger 
shall not come near you. And you shall keep the charge 
of the sanctuary and of the altar, that there may be no 
more the wrath that hath been upon the children of 
Israel. And, behold, I have taken your brethren the 
Levites from among the sons of Israel; to you they are 
given, a gift before the Lord, to perform the work of the 
tabernacle of ordinance. But thou, and thy sons with 
thee, shall keep the charge of your priesthood in all 
things that pertain to the altar, and (those) within the 
veil, and shall minister by lots, according to the service. 
So, provision of food have I given you, on account of 
the anointing of your priesthood ; and the stranger who 
cometh near shall die. 

And the Lord said to Aharon, And I have been 
pleased to give you the charge of My separated offerings ; 
the cakes of the firstfruits, and all the consecrated things 
of the children of Israel, to thee have I given them, on 
account of the anointing, and to thy sons, by an ever- 
lasting statute. They shall be to thee most sacred ; 
whatsoever remaineth cf the sheep offered by fire, all 
their oblations, of all their minchas, of all their sin 
offerings, and of all their trespass offerings which they 
present before Me, they are most sacred for thee and for 
thy sons. Thou mayest eat it in the sanctuary; every 
male may eat thereof; on account of the holy anointing 


400 TARGUM OF PALESTINE ] .אס‎ 


it shall be thine. And this is what I have set apart to 
thee of their separated minchas, and of all the uplifted 
things of the sons of Israel, to thee have I given them, 
and to thy sons and thy daughters with thee by an ever- 
lasting statute. Whoever is clean in thy house may eat 
of it. All the best of the olive oil, of the grape wine, 
and of the wheat of their firstfruits which they present 
before the Lord, I have given unto thee. [JeRusaLen. 
All the best of the wheat, of the wine, and of the oil of 
their firstfruits.] The firsts of all the trees of their 
ground which they present before the Lord shall be 
thine; every one who is clean in thy house may eat 
them. Every devoted thing in Israel shall be thine. 
Whatever openeth the womb, of all flesh among animals 
which they offer before the Lord, as the regulation con- 
cerning men, so the regulation concerning cattle, it is 
to be thine: only thou art to redeem the firstborn of 
man by the five shekels, and the firstlings of the unclean 
animal thou shalt redeem with lambs. And the redemp- 
tion of a man child of a month old thou shalt make, 
according to thy estimation of him, by five shekels of 
silver in the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty 
meahs. But the firstlings of oxen, of sheep, or of 
goats thou mayest not redeem, for they are sacred ; but 
thou shalt sprinkle their blood upon the altar, and burn 
their fat for an oblation to be accepted before the Lord. 
And their flesh shall be thine, for food; as the breast of 
the elevation, and as the right shoulder, it shall be thine. 
Every thing set apart of the sacred things which the sons 
of Israel consecrate to the Lord have I given to thee, to 
thy sons and thy daughters with thee, by a perpetual 
statute not to be abolished; as the salt which seasoneth 
the flesh of the oblation, because it is an everlasting 
statute before the Lord, so shall it be for thee and for 
thy children. 


XVIII. | ON NUMBERS. 401 


And the Lord said to Aharon, Thou wilt not receive 
a possession in their land as the rest of the tribes, nor 
wilt thou have a portion among them: Iam thy Portion 
and thy Inheritance in the midst of the children of 
Israel. And, behold, I have given to the sons of Levi 
all the tenths in Israel for a possession, on account of 
their service with which they serve in the work of the 
tabernacle of ordinance. And the sons of Israel shall 
no more come near the tabernacle to incur the sin unto 
death ; but the Levites shall minister in the work of the 
tabernacle, and shall bear their sin if they be not dili- 
gent in their work. It is an everlasting statute for 
your generations ; but among the sons of Israel they 
shall have uo possession. Therefore the tentlis of the 
children of Israel, which they set apart for a separation 
before the Lord, have I given to the Levites for a posses- 
sion, because I have said to them that among the sons 
of Israel they shall possess no inheritance. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak to 
the Levites, and bid them take from the sons of Israel 
the tenth which I have given them for their possession ; 
and (then) shall you separate from it a separation before 
the Lord, a tenth from the tenth; and your separation 
shall be reckoned to you as the corn from the threshing- 
floor, and as the wine from the fulness of the wine- 
press ; so shall you set apart your separation before the 
Lord from all your tenths, which you may receive from 
the sons of Israel, and give thereof a separation before 
the Lord unto Aharon the priest. Of all your gifts you 
shall set apart a separation before the Lord, of all the 
finest and the best therein. And say thou to the priests, 
When you have set apart the finest and the best of it 
and in it, then shall it be reckoned to the Levites as the 
setting apart of corn from the threshing-floor, and of 
wine from the wine-press. And you may eat it, you, 


402 TARGUM OF PALESTINE ] 


the priests, in any place, you and the men of your 
house ; for it is your remuneration for your service in 
the tabernacle of ordinance. And you shall not contract 
guilt by it, at what time you set apart the finest and best 
of it, by any one eating of it who is unclean; neither 
shall you profane the consecrated things of the children 
of Israel, lest you die. 


SECTION XAAIX. 
HUKKATH. 


XIX. Awnp the Lord spake with Mosheh and Aharon, 
saying: This is the decree, the publication of the law 
which the Lord hath commanded, saying; Speak to the 
sons of Israel, that they bring to thee from the separation 
of the fold a red heifer, two years old, in which there is 
neither spot nor white hair, on which no male hath 
come, nor the burden of any work been imposed, neither 
hurt by the thong, nor grieved by the goad or prick, 
nor collar (band) or any like yoke. And thou shalt 
give her unto Elazar, the chief of the priests, who shall 
lead her alone without the camp, and set round about her 
arailing (border) of the branches of fig trees ; and another 
priest shall slay her with the two signs before him, after 
the manner of other animals, and examine her by the 
eighteen kinds of divisions. And Elazar, in his priestly 
dress, shall take of her blood with the finger of his 
right hand, without (first) containing it in a vessel, and 
shall sprinkle the border of fig branches, and (after- 
wards) from the midst of a vessel on one side towards 
the tabernacle of ordinance, with one dipping, seven 
times (shall he sprinkle), And they shall bring her 


XIX.] ON NUMBERS. 403 


out from the midst of the railing, and another priest, 
while Elazar looketh on, shall burn the heifer, her skin, 
flesh, and blood, with her dung shall he burn. And 
another priest shall take a piece of cedar wood and 
hyssop, and (wool) whose colour hath been changed to 
scarlet, and throw them into the midst of the burn- 
ing of the heifer; and he shall enlarge the burning, 
that the ashes may be increased. [Jernusatem. And 
throw into the midst of the ashes of the burning 
heifer.] And the priest who slew the heifer shall 
wash his dress in forty satas of water, and afterwards 
he may go into the camp; but the priest before his 
ablution shall be unclean until the evening. And the 
priest who was employed in the burning shall wash his 
dress in forty satas of water, and his flesh in forty satas, 
and before his ablution shall be unclean until the 
evening. 

And a man, a priest who is clean, shall gather up the 
ashes of the heifer in an earthenware receptacle, its 
opening covered round about with clay; aud shall divide 
the ashes into three portions, of which one shall be 
placed within the wall (of Jerusalem), another in the 
Mount of Olives, and the third portion be in the cus- 
tody of the Levites; and it shall be for the congregation 
of Israel, for the Water of Sprinkling: it is the heifer 
(immolated) for the remission of sins. 

And the priest who gathered up the ashes of the 
heifer shall wash his clothes, and before his ablution be 
unclean till the evening. And this shall be for the 
cleansing of the children of Israel, a statute for ever. 

Whoever toucheth the body of a dead man, or of a 
child of some months old, either his body or his blood, 
shall be unclean seven days. He shall sprinkle himself 
with this water of the ashes on the third day, and on 
the seventh day he shall be clean. But if he sprinkle 


404 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


not himself on the third day, his uncleanness will remain 
upon him, and he will not be clean on the seventh day. 
Whoever hath touched the body of a dead man, or of a 
child nine months old, cither the body or the blood, and 
will not sprinkle himself, he hath defiled the tabernacle 
of the Lord, and that man shall be cut off from Israel ; 
forasmuch as the water of sprinkling is not sprinkled 
upon him, he is unclean, his uncleanness is yet on lim, 
until he shall sprinkle himself; yet may he sprinkle and 
make ablution on the seventh evening. This is the 
indication of the law concerning a man when he hath 
died under the outspread tent: every one who entereth 
into the tent by the way of the door, but not from its 
side, when its door is open, (or when one hath opened 
its door,) and whatever is in the tent, its floor, stones, 
wood, and vessels, shall be unclean seven davs. And 
every earthen vessel which hath no covering fastened 
upon its mouth, which would have kept it separate from 
the uncleanness, is 068160 by the uncleanness of the air 
which toucheth its mouth, and its interior, and not the 
outside of it (only). [JenusaLem. And every open vessel 
which hath no covering of stone upon it shall be un- 
elean.}| And whoever shall touch not one who hath 
died in his mother’s womb, but who hath been slain 
with the sword on the face of the field, or the sword 
with which he was slain, or the dead man himself, or a 
bone of his, or the hair, or the bone of a living man 
which hath been separated from him, or a grave, or a 
shroud, or the bier, shall be unclean seven days. And 
for him who is unclean, they shall take of the ashes of 
the burnt sin offering, and put spring water upon them in 
an earthen vessel. And let 8 man,a priest, who is clean, 
take three branches of hyssop bound together, and dip 
(them) in the water at the time of receiving the un- 
cleanness, and sprinkle the tent and all its vessels, and 


ON NUMBERS. 405‏ [.צצ 


the men who are in it, or upon him who hath touched 
the bone of a living man that hath been severed from 
him, and hath fallen, or him who hath been slain with 
the sword, or hath died by the plague, or a grave, or a 
wrapper, or a bier. And the priest who is clean shall 
sprinkle upon the unclean man on the third day, and on 
the seventh day, and shall make him clean on the 
seventh day ; and he shall sprinkle his clothes, and wash 
himself with water, and at eventide be clean. 

But the unclean man who will not be sprinkled, that 
man shall be cut off from among the congregation, be- 
cause he hath defiled the sanctuary of the Lord; the 
water of sprinkling hath not been sprinkled upon him, 
he is unclean. And it shall be unto you an everlasting 
statute. The priest, also, who sprinkleth the water of 
sprinkling shall sprinkle his clothes, and he who toucheth 
the water of citing shall be unclean until evening. 
And whatever the unclean person hath touched, though 
he carry it not, shall be unclean; and the clean man 
who toucheth him shall be unclean till evening. 

XX. And the whole congregation of the children of 
Israel came to the desert of Zin on the tenth day of the 
month Nisan. And Miriam died there, and was buried 
there. And as on account of the innocency of Miriam 
a well had been given, so when she died the well was 
hidden, and the congregation had no water. And they 
gathered against Mosheh and Aharon, and the people 
contended with Mosheh, and said, Would that we had 
died when our brethren died before the Lord! And 
why hast thou brought the congregation of the Lord 
into this desert, that we and our cattle may die here? 
And why didst thou make us come up out of Mizraim, 
to bring us to this evil place, a place which is not fit 
for sowing, or for planting fig trees, or vines, or pome- 
granates, and where there is no water to drink? And 


406 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


Mosheh and Aharon went from the face of the murmur- 
ing congregation to the door of the tabernacle of ordi- 
nance, and bowed upon their faces, and the Glory of the 
Lord’s Shekinah was revealed to them. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saving: Take the 
rod of the miracles, and gather the congregation, thou, 
and Aharon thy brother, and both of you adjure the 
rock, by the Great and manifested Name, while they look 
on, and it shall give forth its waters: but if it refuse to 
bring forth, smite thou it once, with the rod that is in thy 
hand, and thou wilt bring out water for them from the 
rock, that the congregation and their cattle may drink. 

And Mosheh took the rod of the miracles from before 
the Lord,as He had commanded him. And Mosheh and 
Aharon gathered the congregation together before the 
rock. And Mosheh said to them, Hear now, rebels: is it 
possible for us to bring forth water for you from this rock ? 
And Mosheh lifte? up [Jrrvsatru. And Mosheh lifted 
up] his hand, and with his rod struck the rock two 
times : at the first time it dropped blood ; but at the second 
time there came forth a multitude of waters. And the 
congregation and their cattle drank. 

But the Lord spake to Mosheh and Aharon with the 
oath, Because ye have not believed in My Word,® to 
sanctify Me in the sight of the children of Israel, there- 
fore you shall not bring this congregation into the land 
that I will give them. These are the Waters of Conten- 
tion, where the sons of Israel contended before the Lord 
on account of the well that had been hidden; and He 
was sanctified in them, in Mosheh and Aharon, when 
(the waters) were given to them. 

Then Mosheh sent messengers from Rekem unto the 


% From this expression some of the Jewish commentators consider 
the sin of Moses to have lain in his 02720207 whether the water would 
come from the rock at the word spoken, though God had said it should. 


Xx. | ON NUMBERS. 407 


king of Edom, saying, Thus saith thy brother Israel. 
Thou hast known all the trouble that hath found us; 
that our fathers went down into Mizraim and dwelt in 
Mizraim many days, and the Mizraee afflicted us and 
our fathers. And we prayed before the Lord, who heard 
our prayers, and sent one of the ministering angels to 
lead us out of Mizraim: and, behold, we are in Rekem, 
a city built on the side of thy border. Let us now pass 
through thy land: we will not seduce virgins, nor carry 
off the betrothed, nor commit adultery: on the king’s 
highway, under the heavens, we will go forward, and 
turn not to the right or to the left, to do any injury in 
the public way while we pass through thy border. 
[Jerusates. Let us now pass through thy country. 
We will do no kind of mischief, neither seduce virgins, 
nor seek the wives of the men ; by the highway of the 
king we will proceed, nor turn to the right or the left 
till we have passed through thy coast.] But Edomea 
answered him, You shall not go through my coast, lest I 
come to meet thee with the unsheathed sword. And 
Israel said to him, We would go by the king’s highway ; 
if we drink thy waters, I and my cattle, I will give thee 
the price of their value. I will only pass through, with- 
out doing wrong. But he said, You shall not pass 
through. And Edomea came out to meet him with a 
large army and with a strong hand. So Edomea would 
not suffer Israel to pass through his coast; and Israel 
turned away from him, because it was commanded from 
before the Word of the Heavens that they should not set 
battle in array against them, forasmuch as the time was 
not yet come when the punishment of Edom should be 
given into their hands. [Jerusatea. And Israel turned 
away from them; for so was the commandment of their 
Father who is in heaven, that they should not set against 
them the array of war.] 


408 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


And the whele congregation of the children of Israel 
journeyed from Rekem, and came unto Mount Umanom. 
And the Lord spake unto Mosheh in the Mount Umanom, 
on the coast of the land of Edom, saving: Aharon shall 
be gathered unto his people; for he shall not enter into 
the land which I have given unto the children of Israel, 
because you were rebels against My Word at the Waters 
of Contention. Take Aharon and Elazar his son, and 
make them come up to Mount Umanom. And thou shalt 
strip Aharon of his vestments, the adornment (glory) of 
the priesthood, and put them on Elazar his son; but 
Aharon shall be gathered, and die there. And Mosheh 
did as the Lord commanded him. : 

And they ascended Mount Umanom, in the view of all 
the congregatoin. And Mosheh stripped Aharon of his 
vestments, [JERUSALEM. And Mosheh drew 011 from Aha- 
ron] the priestly decoration, and put them on Elazar his 
son; and Aharon died there on the summit of the moun- 
tain, and Mosheh and Elazar came down from the mount. 

And when the soul of Aharon was at rest, the Cloud 
of Glory was lifted up on the first day of the month Ab; 
and all the congregation beheld Mosheh come down 
from the mountain with rent garments; and he wept 
and said, Woe unto me, for thee, my brother Aharon, the 
pillar of Israel’s prayers! And they too wept for Aharon 
thirty days, the men and the women of Israel. [JERu- 
saLeM. And all the congregation beheld Mosheh 
come down from the height of the mountain, with gar- 
ments rent and dust upon his head, weeping and saying, 
Woe unto me, for thee, my brother Aharon, the pillar of 
the prayers of the sons of Israel, who madest atonement 
for them once every year! In that hour the sons of 
Israel believed that Aharon was dead; and all the con- 
gregation of the children of Israel wept for Aharon 
thirty days. ] 


NUMBERS. 409‏ אס [זצצ 


XXI. And Amalek, who had dwelt in the south, and 
changed, and came and reigned in Arad, heard that the 
soul of Aharon was at rest, that the pillar of the Cloud 
which for his sake had led the people of the house of 
Israel had been taken up, and that Israel was coming 
by the way of the explorers to the place where they had 
rebelled against the Lord of the world. For, when the 
explorers had returned, the children of Israel abode in 
Rekem, but afterward returned from Rekem to Motseroth, 
in six encampments during forty years, when they jour- 
neyed from Motseroth, and returned to Rekem by the way 
of the explorers, and came unto Mount Umanom, where 
Aharon died ; (and,) behold, he came and arrayed battle 
against Israel, and captured some of them with a great 
captivity. [JERrusatem. And when the Kenaanite, king 
Arad, who dwelt in the south, heard that Aharon was 
dead, that holy man on account of whose merit the Cloud 
of Glory had protected Israel ; that the pillar of the Cloud 
had been taken up; and that the prophetess Mizraim 
was dead, on whose account the well had flowed, but had 
(since) been hidden; he answered and said, Ye servants 
of war, come and let us set battle in line against Israel ; 
for we shall find the way by which the explorers came up. 
Therefore they set battle in line against Israel, and 
carried away some of them with a great captivity.] 

And Israel vowed a vow before the Lord, and said: 
If Thou wilt indeed deliver this people into my hand, 1 
will destroy their cities. And the Lord heard Israel’s 
prayer, and delivered up the Kenaanites, and he de- 
stroyed them and their cities. And he called the name 
of the place Hormah.* 

And they journeyed from Mount Umanom, by the way 
of the Sea of Suph, that they might compass the land of 
Edom; and the soul of the people was wearied in the 


1 « Destruction.” 


410 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHAP. 


way. And the people thought (wickedly) תג‎ their 
heart, and talked against the Word of the Lord, and 
contended with Mosheh, saying: Why didst thou bring 
us up from Mizraim to die in the wilderness ; for there is 
neither bread nor water, and our soul is weary of manna, 
this light food ? 

And the bath-kol fell from the high heaven, and thus 
spake: Come, all men, and see all the benefits which I 
have done to the people whom I brought up free out of 
Mizraim. I made manna come down for them from 
heaven, yet now turn they and murmur against Me. 
Yet, behold, the serpent, whom, in the days of the 
beginning of the world, I doomed to have dust for his 
food, hath not murmured against me: but My people 
are murmuring about their food. Now shall the serpents 
who have not complained of their food come and bite 
the people who complain. Therefore did the Word of 
the Lord send the basilisk serpents, and they bit the 
people, and a great multitude of the people of Israel 
died. [Jrrusatem. The bath-kol came forth from 
the midst of the earth, and a voice was heard from the 
heights, See, all men, and listen and hear, all ye children 
of flesh. The serpent, whom I cursed at the beginning, 
and said to him, Dust shall be thy food, hath not com- 
plained about his food. I led forth My people from 
Mizraim free, and caused the manna to descend for 
them from heaven; I made the quails to come over to 
them, and the well to spring up from the deep; yet 
now they again complain before Me on account of the 
manna, saying, Our soul is aggrieved by this light bread : 
therefore shall the serpent who hath not complained of 
his food come and bite this people who have murmured 
about their food. So the Word of the Lord sent fiery 
serpents among the people, and they bit the people, and 
a great multitude of Israel died.] 


ON NUMBERS. 411‏ [.צאצ 


And the people came to Mosheh, and said: We have 
sinned, in thinking and speaking against the glory of 
the Lord’s Shekinah, and in contending with thee. Pray 
before the Lord to remove the plague of serpents from 
us. And Mosheh prayed for the people. 

And the Lord said to Mosheh, Make thee a serpent 
of brass, and set it upon a place aloft; 2 and it shall be 
that when a serpent hath bitten any one, if he behold it, 
then shall he live, if his heart be directed to the Name 
of the Word of the Lord. And Mosheh made a serpent 
of brass, and set it upon a place aloft; and it was, 
when a serpent had bitten a man, and the serpent 
of brass was gazed at, and his heart was intent upon 
the Name of the Word of the Lord, he lived. [Jenu- 
saLEM. And Mosheh made a serpent of brass, and set 
it upon a high place; and it was that when any one 
had been bitten by a serpent, and his face was uplifted 
in prayer unto his Father who is in heaven, and he 
looked upon the brasen serpent, he lived.] 

And the children of Israel journeyed from thence, and 
pitched in Oboth ; and they journeyed from Oboth, and 
encamped in the plain of Megistha, in a desert place 
which looketh toward Moab from the rising of the sun. 
Thence they journeyed and encamped in a valley abound- 
ing in reeds, osiers, and mandrakes.? And they journeyed 
from thence, and encamped beyond the Arnon, in a 
passage of the desert that stretcheth from the coast of 
the Amoraah; for Arnon is the border of Moab, situate 
between Moab and the Amoraah; and therein dwelt a 
priesthood of the worshippers of idols. Therefore it is 
said in the book of the Law, where are recorded the 
wars of the Lord: Eth and Heb, who had been smitten 
with the blast of the leprosy, and had been banished 
beyond the confine of the camp, made known to Israel 


2 Or, “a place of suspension.” 3 Or, “lilies.” 
5 


412 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


that Edom and Moab were concealed among the moun- 
tains in ambush, to destroy the people of the house of 
Israel. But the Lord of the world made a sign to the 
mountains, which pressed one to another, so that they 
died: and their blood flowed through a valley on the 
brink of the Arnon (or, a valley adjoining Arnon). 
And the effusion of the streams of their blood flowed to the 
habitations of Lechaiath, which were, however, delivered 
from this destruction, because they had not been in their 
counsels; and, behold, it was unto the confine of Moab. 

And from thence was given to them (the Israelites) 
the living well, the well concerning which the Lord said 
to Mosheh, Assemble the people and give them water. 
Then, behold, Israel sang the thanksgiving of this song, 
at the time that the well which had been hidden was 
restored to them through the merit of Miriam: Spring 
up, O well, spring up, O well! sang they to it, and it 
sprang up: the well which the fathers of the world, 
Abraham, Tzhak, and Jakob, digged: the princes who 
were of old digged it, the chiefs of the people: Mosheh 
and Aharon, the scribes of Israel, found it with their 
rods ; and from the desert it was given to them for a gift. 

(JurvsaLem. Therefore 16 is said in the Book of the 
Law of the Lord, which is likened to a Book of Wars: 
The miracles and mighty acts which the Lord-wrought 
for His people, the sons of Israel, when they stood by 
the Red Sea, so did He with them when they were at the 
fords of the vale of Arnona. When the children of 
Israel were passing through the vale of Arnona, the 
Moabites were hidden in the caverns of the valley, 
saying: When the Beni Israel are coming through, we 
will go forth to prevent them, and will slay them. But 
the Lord of all the world, the Lord, who knew what 
was in their hearts,—for before Him that which is 
within the reins is manifest,—the Lord signed to the 


XXI.] ON NUMBERS. 413 


mountains, and their heads here and there were brought 
together,and the chiefs of their mighty ones were crushed, 
and the valleys were overflowed with the blood of the 
slain. But Israel walked above upon the top of the 
hills, and knew not the miracle and mighty act which 
the Lord was doing for them in the valley of Arnon. 
But Lechaiath, the city which took no part in their 
counsel, was delivered from them; and, behold, it is by 
the confines of the Moabites. 17. Behold, then sang 
Israel this song of praise: Spring up, O well! they 
sang to it, and it sprang up: the well which Abraham, 
Izhak, and Jakob, the princes of the world, at the 
beginning did see, the sages of the world, the Sanhedrin, 
the seventy wise men who were appointed by name 
beheld it: Mosheh and Aharon, the scribes of Israel, 
found it with their rods, and from the desert it was 
given to them as a gift. ] 

And from thence it was given to them in Mattana ; 
turning, it went up with them to the high mountains, 
and from the high mountains it went down with them 
to the hills surrounding all the camp of Israel, and 
giving them drink, every one at the door of his tent. 
And from the high mountains it descended with them 
to the lower hills, but was hidden from them on the 
borders of Moab, at the summit of the hill looking 
toward Bethjeshimon, because there they neglected the 
words of the Law. [Jertsares. And from thence 
the well was given to them at Mattana, turning it became 
strong overflowing streams, and again it ascended to the 
top of the mountains, and went down with them to the 
ancient valleys; but the well was hidden from them 
when on the borders of Moab, on the head of the height 
which overlooketh toward Abeth Jeshimon. | 

Then sent Israel messengers to Sihon, king of the 
Amorites, saying: I would pass through thy country. 


414 TARGUM OF PALESTINE CHAP. 


We will not carry off the betrothed, nor seduce virgins, 
nor have to do with the wives of men; by the highway 
of the King who is in the heavens we will go, until we 
have passed through thy border. But Sihon would 
not permit Israel to pass through his limit, but con- 
strained all his people, and came out to Jahaz, and made 
war against Israel. And Israel smote him with the 
anathema of the Lord, that he would destroy (him) with 
the edge of the sword; and he took possession of his 
country, from Arnon unto the Jabbok, unto the border 
of the children of Ammon; because Rabbath, which is 
the limit of the children of Ammon, was strong; and 
so far was their boundary. 

And Israel took all those cities, and dwelt in all the 
cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all her 
villages. For Heshbon was the city of Sihon, king of 
the Amorites ; for he had beforetime made war with the 
King of Moab, and had taken all his country from his 
hand unto the Arnon. Therefore, say the young men, 
(or the chosen ones,) using proverbs: The righteous 
who rule their passions say, Come let us reckon (Hesh- 
bon) the strength* of a good work by the recompense, 
and the recompense of an evil work by the strength ; 
for whoso is watchful and diligent * in the law is builded 
up and perfected; for mighty words like fire go forth 
from the lips of the righteous, the masters of such 
thought, (calculation, Aeshdona,) and powerful merit like 
flames from those who are read and devoted in the 
law: their fire devoureth the foe and the adversary, who 
are reckoned before them as the worshippers of the idol 
altars in the valley of Arnona. Woe to you, ye haters 
of the just! ye have perished, ye people of Kemosh, 
haters of the words of the law, in whom there is no 


* Or, “the weapon, instrument.” 
5 Or, “ devoted,’ literally, “anointed.” 


ON NUMBERS. 415‏ [.זצצ 


righteousness, unless he waste you to bring you captive 
unto the place where they teach the law, and their sons 
and daughters be removed by captivity of the sword to 
be near them who consult in its counsels the instructors 
and those anointed with the law. The wicked have 
said, In all this there is nothing lofty to the sight ; but 
your numbers shall perish until the falsehood of your 
souls be ended, and the Lord of the world destroy them 
till their lives have expired, and they have come to 
nothing, as the cities of the Amorites have perished, and 
the palaces of their princes from the great gate of the 
house of the kingdom to the street of the smiths which 
is nigh to Medeba. 

(JERUSALEM. 27. Therefore say they who speak in 
proverbs, Ascend. 28. Because the men of their 
people like fire come out of Heshbon, making war as 
flames of fire from the city of Sihon: the kings of the 
Amoraee are slain, the villages of the Moabite cities are 
destroyed, and the priests are slaughtered who sacrificed 
before the idols of Arnona. Woe to you of Moab! 
ye are consumed, destroyed, O worshippers of the idol 
of Kemosh; your sons and daughters bound by the collar 
are carried into the captivity of Sihon, king of the 
Amorites. And the kingdom hath ceased from Hesh- 
bon, and the ruler from Dibon, and his ways are made 
desolate unto the smithies which are nigh to Medaba.] 

And Israel, after they had destroyed Sihon, dwelt in 
the land of the Amorites. And Mosheh sent Kaleb and 
Phineas to examine Makbar, and they subdued the 
villages, and destroyed the Amorites who were there. 
Then they turned, and went up by the way of Mathnan ; 
and Og, the king of Mathnan, came out to meet us, 
he and all his people, to give battle at Edrei. And it 
was, when Mosheh saw Og, he trembled before him, 
stricken with fear: but he (soon) answered and said, 


416 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHAP. 


This is Og the Wicked, who taunted Abraham our 
father and Sarah, saying: You are like trees planted 
by the water channels, but bring forth no fruit : therefore 
hath the Holy One, blessed be He, spared him to hve 
through generations, that he might see the great multi- 
tude of their children, and be delivered into our hands. 
Then spake the Lord unto Mosheh: Fear him not, for 
T have delivered him into thy hand, and all his people 
and country; and thou shalt do to him as thou hast 
done to Sihon, king of the Amorites, who dwelt in 
Heshbon. 

Now it was, after Og the Wicked had seen the camp 
of Israel spreading over six miles, le said with himself, 
T will make war against this people, that they may not 
do to me as they have done to Sihon: so went he and 
tare up a mountain six miles in size, and brought it 
upon his head to hurl it upon them. But the Word of 
the Lord forthwith prepared a reptile® which ate into 
the mountain and perforated it, and his head was 
swallowed up within it; and he sought to withdraw it, 
but could not, because his back teeth and his front 
ones were drawn hither and thither. And Mosheh 
went and took an axe of ten cubits, and sprang ten 
cubits, and struck him on the ankie of his foot, and he 
fell, and died beyond the camp of Israel. Thus it is 
written. And they smote him and his sons and daugh- 
ters, and all his people, till none of them remained to 
escape ; and they tock possession of his land. [JEru- 
saLEM. And Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites. 
Aud Mosheh sent to explore Makvar, and they took the 
vilages, and destroyed the Amorites who were there. 
3+. And when Mosheh saw Og, he said, Is not this Og 
the Wicked, who taunted Abraham and Sarah, and said, 


> “Grasshopper,” zechi?a. The Tarcumist here draws the long bow of 
the Hagadistic method of paraphrase. 


ON NUMBERS. 417‏ [,צנצצ 


They are like fair trees by fountains of water, but give 
no fruit? Therefore the Holy One, blessed be He, hath 
kept him alive for many years, till the time that he 
should see their children and children’s children, and 
fall by their hands. Therefore the Lord said to Mosheh, 
Fear him not, for I have delivered him into thy hand, 
and all his people, and all his land; and thou shalt do to 
him as thou hast done to Sichon, king of the Amorites, 
who dwelt in Heshbon.] 

XXII. And the children of Israel journeyed, and 
encamped in the plains of Moab, near the passage of the 
Jordan (toward) Jericho. 





SECTION XL. 
BALAK. 


Ayp Balak bar Zippor saw what Israel had done to 
the Amoraee. And the Moabaee feared before the people 
greatly because they were many, and they were distressed 
in their life before the sons of Israel. And they said 
to the elders of the Midianee, for the people had been 
one and the kingdom one unto that day: Now will 
this congregation consume all that is about them, as the 
ox eateth up the grass of the field. And Balak bar 
Zippor, a Midianite, was the king of Moab at that time ; 
without (a Midianite) being such at another time ; for so 
was the tradition among them, to have kings from this 
people and from that, by turns. 

And he sent unto Laban the Aramite, who was Bileam, 
(so called because he it was) who sought (Biluva) to 
swallow up (Amma) the people of the house of Israel : 
the son of Beor, who was insane’ from the vastness of 
his knowledge ; and would not spare Israel, the descend- 

7 Or, “gross.” 


- 


To 


418 TARGUM OF PALESTINE. [cHaP. 


ants of his sons and daughters: and tlie house of his 
habitation in Padan was at Pethor, a name signifying 
an interpreter of dreams. It was built in Aram upon the 
Phrat, in a land where the children of the people worship- 
ped and adored him. (To him did Balak send) to call 
him, saying: Behold, a people hath come out of Mizraim, 
and, lo, they cover the face of the earth, and are encamped 
over against me. But now, I entreat, come, curse this 
people for me, for they are stronger than I, if I may but 
be able to meet them, though smaller than they, and 
drive them from the land. For I know that he whom 
thou dost bless is blessed, and he whom thou dost curse 
is cursed. 

And the elders of Moab and of Midian went, with 
the price of divinations sealed up in their hands, and 
came to Bileam, and told him the words of Balak. 
[JeRusaLem. And the sages of the Moabites and of 
the Midianites went, with sealed letters in their hands, 
and came to Bileam, and spake with him the words of 
Balak.] And he said to them, Abide here to-night, and 
I will return you word as the Lord shall speak with me. 
And the princes of Moab stayed with Bileam. And the 
Word from before the Lord came to Bileam, and He 
said, What men are these who are now lodging with 
thee? And Bileam said before the Lord, Balak bar 
Zippor, king of the Moabaee, bath sent messengers to me, 
saying : Behold, a people hath come out of Mizraim, and 
cover the face of the land: now therefore, come, curse 
them for me, so that I may be able to fight and drive 
them away. And the Lord said unto Bileam, Thou 
shalt not go with them, nor curse the people, for they 
are blessed of Me from the day of their fathers. And 
Bileam rose up early, and said to the princes of Moab, 
Go unto your country, for it is not pleasing before the 
Lord to permit me to journey with you. And the 


XXIL] ON NUMBERS. 419 


princes of Moab arose and came to Balak, and said, 
Bileam hath refused to come with us. 

But Balak added to send (other) princes more, and 
nobler than they ; and they came to Bileam, and said to 
him: Thus saith Balak bar Zippor, Let not anything 
hinder thee from coming to me; for honouring I will 
honour thee greatly, and whatever thou biddest me I will 
do. Come therefore now, and curse this people for me. 
And Bileam answered the servants of Balak, and said, If 
Balak would give me out of his treasury a house full of 
silver and gold, Ihave no power to transgress the decree 
of the Word of the Lord my God, to fabricate a word 
either small or great. But I entreat you to remain here 
this might also, that I may know what the Word of the 
Lord may yet speak with me. 

And the Word came from before the Lord® unto 
Bileam in the night, and said to him, If these men come 
to call thee, arise, go with them; only, the word that I 
will speak with thee, that shalt thou do. 

And Bileam arose in the morning, and saddled his 
ass, and went with the princes of Moab. [JeRusaLem. 
ind Bileam arose in the morning, and made ready his 
ass, and went with the princes of Moab.] But the anger 
of the Lord was provoked, because he would go (that he 
might) curse them ; and the angel of the Lord stood in 
the way to be an adversary to him. But he sat upon 
his ass, and his two young men, Jannes and Jambres, 
were with him. And the ass discerned the angel of the 
Lord standing in the way with a drawn sword in his 
hand, and the ass turned aside out of the road, to go 
into the field. And Bileam smote the ass to make her 
return unto the way. And the angel of the Lord stood 
in a narrow path that was in the midst between vine- 
yards, [Jervsatem. And the angel of the Lord stood 


® Glossary, p. 16. 


420 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [onap. 


between the vineyards, a hedge (being) on this and on 
that side,] in the place where Jacob and Laban raised 
the mound, the pillar on this side and the observatory 
on that side,® which they raised, that neither should pass 
that limit to do evil (to the other). And the ass dis- 
cerned the angel of the Lord, and thrust herself against 
the hedge, and bruised Bileam’s foot by the hedge, and 
he smote her again; for the angel was invisible to him. 
And the angel of the Lord yet passed on, and stood in 
a distant place, where there was no way to turn either to 
the right or left. And the ass saw the angel of the 
Gord, and fell under Bileam; and Bileam’s wrath was 
strong, so that he smote the ass with his staff—Ten 
things were created after the world had been founded at 
the coming in of the Sabbath between the suns,—the 
manna, the well, the rod of Mosheh, the diamond, the 
rainbow, the cloud of glory, the mouth of the earth, the 
writing of the tables of the covenant, the demons, and 
the speaking ass. And in that hour the Word of the Lord 
opened her mouth, and fitted her to speak: and she 
said to Bileam, What have I done to thee, that thou hast 
smitten me these three times? And Bileam said to the 
ass, Because thou hast been false to me; if there was 
now but a sword in my hand, I would kill thee. And 
the ass said to Bileam, Woe to thee, Bileam, thou want- 
ing-in-mind, when me, an unclean beast, who am to die 
in this world, and not to enter the world to come, thou 
art not able to curse; how much less (canst thou 
harm) the children of Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, on 
account of whom the world hath been created, but whom 
thou art going to curse! So hast thou deceived these 
people, and hast said, This is not my ass, she is a loan 
in my hand, and my horses remain in the pasture. But 
am 1 not thine ass upon whom thou hast ridden from 


5 Gen. xxxi. 51. 


XXII. | ON NUMBERS. 42] 


thy youth unto this day? and have I been used to do 
thus with thee? Andhesaid, No. [Jerusavex. And 
the ass said to Bileam, Woe to thee, Bileam the wicked, 
wanting in understanding and wisdom! Behold, me, an 
unclean beast, who am to die in this world and not to 
enter the world to come, thou hast not power with all 
thy skill to curse; how much less the children of 
Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, on whose account the world 
was created at the beginning! And why art thou going 
to curse them? For thou hast deceived the people, 
saying to them, This is not my ass: she is a loan in my 
hand. But am 1 not thy ass, upon whom thou hast ridden 
from thy youth unto this day? Did Tindeed intend to 
do thus with thee? And he said to her, No.] And the 
Lord unveiled the eyes of Bileam, and he beheld the angel 
of the Lord standing in the way, his sword unsheathed in 
his hand; and he bowed, and worshipped on his face. 

And the angel of the Lord said to him, Why hast 
thou smitten thine ass these three times? Behold, I 
have come out to withstand thee; and the ass, fearing, 
saw, and turned from the way. It is known before me 
that thou seekest to go to curse the people, a thing that 
is not pleasing to me. But the ass discerned me, and 
turned away from me these three times: had she not 
turned from me, surely now I should have slain thee, 
and spared her alive. And Bileam said to the angel of 
the Lord, I have sinned, because I knew not that thou 
wast standing against mein the way. But now, if it 
displease thee, I will go back. But the angel of the 
Lord said to Bileam, Go with these men; but the word 
that I will tell thee that thou shalt speak. And Bileam 
went with the princes of Balak. 

And Balak heard that Bileam was coming, and came 
out to meet him at 8 017 of Moab on the border of 
Arnon, which is on the side of the frontier. And Balak 


422 TARGUM OF PALESTINE ] 


said to Bileam, Did I not send to call thee? Why 
camest thou notto me? Didst thou not indeed say that 
Lcould not dothee honour? And Bileam said to Balak, 
Behold, I have come to thee; yet now am 1 able to say 
any thing to thee? But the word that the Lord shall 
ordain for my mouth, that I must speak. And Bileam 
went with Balak, and they came to a city surrounded 
with walls, to the streets of the great city, the city of 
Sihon, which is Berosha. And Balak slew oxen and 
sheep, and sent to Bileam and the princes, and those 
who were with them. And at the time of the morning 
Balak took Bileam, and brought him up to the high 
place of the idol Peor; and he saw from thence the 
camp of Dan, which went at the rear of the people; and 
they were discovered under the Cloud of Glory. 

XXIII. And Bileam, as he looked upon them, knew 
that strange worship was among them, and rejoiced in 
his heart; and he said to Balak, Build here seven altars, 
and prepare me here seven bullocks and seven rams. 
And Balak did as Bileam had said, and Balak and 
Bileam offered a bullock and a ram upon an altar. And 
Bileam said to Balak, Stand by thy burnt offering, and 
I will go, if peradventure the word of the Lord may 
come to meet me; and the word that shall be discovered to 
me, that I will declare to thee. And he went, bending 
as a serpent. [JerusaLeu. And Bileam went with a 
humbled heart. ] 

And the Word from before the Lord met with Bileam, 
who said before Him, The seven altars I have set in 
order, and have offered a bullock and a ram upon every 
altar. And the Lord put a word in Bileam’s mouth, 
and said, Return to Balak, and thus speak. And he 
returned to him, and, behold, he was standing by his 
burnt-offering, he and all the nobles of Moab. And he 
took up the parable of his prophecy, and said : 


XXILL | ON NUMBERS. 423 


From Aram on Euphrates hath Balak king of the 
Moabaee brought me; from the mountains of the east : 
Come, curse for me the house of Jakob; come, for me 
make Israel small. [Jerusatem. And he took up the 
parable of his prophecy, and said: Balak, the king of the 
Moabaee, hath brought me from Aram, from the moun- 
tains of the east : Come, curse for me the house of Jakob; 
come, diminish for me the tribes of the house of Israel.] 
How shall I curse, (while) the Word of the Lord 
blesseth them ? and whom shall I diminish, when the 
Word of the Lord increaseth them? For, said Bileam 
the wicked, I look on this people who are led on for the 
sake of their righteous fathers, who are like the moun- 
tains, and of their mothers, who are like the hills: behold, 
this people alone are to possess the world, because they 
are not led by the laws of the nations. And when 
Bileam the sinner beheld the house of Israel, a circum- 
cised people, hidden in the dust of the desert, he said, 
Who can number the merits of these strong ones, or 
count the good works of one of the four camps of Israel ? 
Bileam the wicked said: If the house of Israel kill me 
with the sword, then, it is made known to me, I shall 
have no portion in the world to come: nevertheless if I 
may but die the death of the true! O that my last end 
may beas the least among them! [Jerusatem. Where- 
with shall I curse the house of Jakob, when the Word 
of the Lord blesseth them ? and how shall 1 diminish the 
house of israel, when the Word of the Lord doth multiply 
them? I see this people, who are conducted through 
the merit of their righteous fathers, Abraham, Izhak, 
and Jakob, who are like the mountains, and of their four 
mothers, Sarah, Rivekah, Rahel, and Leah: behold, this 
people shall dwell alone, and not be mixed with the laws 
of the Gentiles. Who can number the youth of the 
house of Jakob, of whom it is said, They are to be like the 


424, TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


stars of the skies? Bileam the wicked said, in the para- 
ble of his prophecy, If Israel do kill him with the sword, 
Bileam himself declareth that he hath no portion in the 
world to come: but if Bileam may die as the faithful 
die, may his last end be as one of the least among them.] 

And Balak said to Bileam, What hast thou done to 
me? I brought thee to curse my enemies, and, behold, 
blessing, thou hast blessed them. But he answered and 
said, That which the Lord hath put in my mouth shall 
I not be careful to speak? And Balak said to him, 
Come now with me where thou mayest see him from 
another place. Thou shalt see only the camp that 
goeth in his rear, but not all their camps; and curse 
lim for me there. And he brought him to the field of 
the observatory on the top of the hill, and builded seven 
altars, and offered a bullock and a ram on every altar. 
And he said to Balak, Stand thou here by thy burnt 
offering, and I will meet (Him) yonder. And the 
Word from before the Lord met Bileam, and put a 
word in his mouth, and said, Return to Balak, and thus 
speak. And he came to him, and, behold, he was stand- 
ing by his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with 
him. And Balak said to him, What hath the Lord 
spoken? And he took up the parable of his prophecy, 
and said : 

Arise, Balak, and hear; listen to my words, Bar Zippor. 
The Word of the living God is not as the words of men: 
for the Lord, the Ruler of all worlds, is the unchangeable ; 
(but) man speaketh and denieth. Neither are His works 
like the works of the children of flesh, who consult, and 
then repent them of what they had decreed. But when the 
Lord of all worlds hath said, I will multiply this people 
as the stars of the heavens, and will give them to possess 
the land of the Kenaanites, is He not able to perform 
what He hath spoken ? and what He hath said, can He 


ON NUMBERS. 4.25‏ [.זזדצצ 


not confirm it? Behold, from the mouth of the Holy 
Word I have received the benediction, and their 
appointed benediction I cannot restrain from them. 
[Jervsateu. 15. And I with My Word will honour 
thee. 19. Not as the word of the sons of men is the 
Word of the living God, nor are the works of God as 
the works of men. Men say, and do not; they decree, 
but do not confirm; but God saith and performeth, He 
maketh decree and confirmeth it, and His’ decrees are 
established for ever. Behold, I have received to 
bless Israel, and I cannot restrain the blessings from 
them. | 

Bileam the wicked said, I see not among them of the 
house of Jakob such as worship idols: they who serve 
false idols are not established among the tribes of the 
sons of Israel. The Word of the Lord their God is 
their help, and the trumpets of the King Meshiha 
resound among them. Unto Eloha, who redeemed and 
led them out of Mizraim free, belong power and exalt- 
ation, glorification and greatness. They of the house of 
Jakob who use divination are not established, nor the 
enchanters, who enchant among the greatness (mul- 
titudes) of Israel. At this time it is said to the house 
of Jakob and Israel, How glorious are the miracles and 
wonder-works which God hath wrought! This people 
reposeth alone, and dwelleth strong as a lion, and 
reareth himself as an old lion. They sleep not till with 
great slaughter they have slain their adversaries, and 
taken the spoils of the slain. [Jervusares. I have 
not seen the worshippers of a lie, nor those who offer 
strange service, among tie tribes of the sons of Israel. 
The Word of the Lord is with them, and the trumpet of 
their glorious King protecteth them. Unto God who 
redeemed, and brought them out from Mlizraim free, 
belong power, and praise, and exaltation. For I see not 


4.26 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHar. 


those who perform divination in the house of Jakob, 
nor them who enchant with enchantments among 
the tribes of Israel. At this time it is said to Jakob, 
What bounties and comforts are prepared of the Lord 
to bestow upon you of the house of Jakob! Then said 
he in the parable of his prophecy, O happy saints, how 
goodly is the reward prepared for you by your Father in 
heaven, in the world to come! Behold, these people 
66611 as a lion, like the strong lion; as the lion resteth 
not, nor is quiet, until he hath taken and eaten flesh and 
drunk up blood, so this people will rest not, nor be in 
quiet, till they have slain their enemies, and have shed 
the blood of their slaughtered foes like water. ] 

And Balak said to Bileam, Neither curse them nor 
bless them. But Bileam answered and said to Balak, 
Did I not tell thee at the beginning, Whatsoever the 
Lord speaketh, that must I do? And Balak said to 
Bileam, Come, and I will now take thee to another 
place, if so be it may he pleasing before the Lord, that 
thou mayest curse him for me from thence. And Balak 
led Bileam to the high place of the prospect which 
looketh toward Beth Jeshimoth. And Bileam said to 
Balak, Erect here for me seven altars, and prepare me 
seven bullocks and seven rams. And Balak did as 
Bileam had said, and offered a bullock and a ram upon 
every altar. 

AXIV. And Bileam, seeing that it was good before 
the Lord to bless Israel, went not, as once and again 
before, in quest of divinations, but set his face toward 
the wilderness, to recall to memory the work of the calf 
which they had there committed. And Bileam lifted up 
his eyes, but beheld Israel dwelling together by their 
tribes in their schools, and (saw) that their doors were 
arranged so as not to overlook the doors of their com- 
panions: and the Spirit of prophecy from before the 


ON NUMBERS. 427‏ [,טנצצ 


Lord rested upon him. [Jerusatem. And Bileam 
saw that it was pleasing before the Lord to bless Israel, 
so that he went not, as he had gone from time to 
time, to seek for divinations, or to provide enchantments; 
but went and set his face toward the wilderness to 
recall to memory their work of the calf, (still) being 
desirous to curse Israel.] But he took up the parable 
of his prophecy, and said: 

Bileam, son of Beor, speaketh ; the man speaketh who 
is more honourable than his father, (because) the dark 
mysteries hidden from the prophets have been revealed 
to him; and who, because he was not circumcised, fell 
upon his face when the angel stood over against him: 
he hath said who heard the Word from before the 
living God; who beheld the vision before God the 
Almighty, and, seeking that it might be discovered to 
him, fell upon his face, and the secret mysteries hidden 
from the prophets were revealed to him. 

How beautiful your houses of instruction, in the 
tabernacle where Jakob your father ministered; and 
how beautiful this tabernacle of ordinance which is 
found among you, and the tents that surround it, O 
house of Israel! As tides of waters, so are the house of 
Israel, dwelling like flocks made strong by the doctrine 
of the law; and as gardens planted by the flowing 
streams, so are their disciples in the fellowships of their 
schools. The light of their faces shineth as the bright- 
ness of the firmament which the Lord created on the 
second day of the creation of the world, and outspread 
for the glory of the Shekinah. They are exalted and 
lifted up above all the nations, like cedars of Lebanon 
planted by fountains of waters. From them their King 
shall arise, and their Redeemer be of them and among 
them, and the seed of the children of Jakob shall rule 
over many nations. The first who will reign over them 


428 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [ CHAP. 


will make war with the house of Amalek, and will be 
exalted above Agag their king; but because he had 
spared him his kingdom will be taken from him. Unto 
Eloha, who brought them out free from Mizraim, belong 
might, and exaltation, and glory, and power. He will 
destroy the nations of their adversaries, and break down 
their strength, and will send forth the plague-arrows of 
His vengeance among them, and destroy them. They 
shall repose and dwell as a lion, and as an old lion, that 
sleeping who will (dare to) awake? They who bless 
them are blessed, as Mosheh the prophet, the scribe of 
Israel; and they who curse them are accursed, as Bileam 
son of Beor. 

And Balak’s wrath grew strong against Bileam, and, 
smiting his hands, Balak said to Bileam, I brought thee 
to curse my enemies, and, behold, in blessing thou 
hast blessed them these three times. [JERUSALEM 
3. And he took up in parable his prophecy, and said : 
Bileam the son of Beor saith; the man saith who is 
more honourable than his father, for what hath been 
hidden from all prophets is revealed to him; the man 
saith who heard the Word from before the Lord, and 
who saw the vision before the Almighty; when, in- 
quiring, prostrate on his face, the mysteries of prophecy 
were disclosed to him, and of himself he did prophesy that 
he shall fall by the sword, a prophecy to be confirmed at 
the end! 

How goodly were the tabernacles in which Jakob 
their father did pray; and the tabernacle of ordinance 
which you have made to My name, and your own taber- 
nacles, O house of Israel! As torrents that prevail, so 
shall Israel overpower their adversaries; and as gardens 
planted bv fountains of water, so shall be their cities, 
giving forth scribes and teachers of the law; and as the 
heavens which the Memra of the Lord spread forth for 


XXIV. ] ON NUMBERS. 429 


the dwelling of 1118 Shekinah, so shall Israel live, and 
endure unto eternity, beautiful and renowned as cedars 
by the waters which grow up on high. Their King will 
arise from among their children, and their Redeemer 
will be of them and among them; and He will gather 
their captives from the cities of their adversaries, and 
their children shall have rule among the peoples. And 
the kingdom of the King Meshiha shall be made great : 
stronger is He than Shaul who vanquished Agag the 
king of the Amalkaah. Unto God who redeemed, and 
brought them out free from the land of Mizraim, belong 
power, and praise, and exaltation. The sons of Israel 
will prevail ever their enemies, will divide their cities, 
slay their heroes, and disperse their residue. Behold, 
these people will dwell as a lion, and be as the strong 
lions. Te who blesseth you, O Israel, shall be blessed, 
as Mosheh the prophet, the scribe of Israel; and he who 
curseth you will be accursed, as Bileam, the son of Beor. 

And Balak’s anger grew strong against Bileam, and 
Balak smote his hands, and said to Bileam, I brought 
thee to curse my enemies, and thou hast only blessed.] 
And now flee to thy place. I had said that honouring 
1 would honour thee; but, behold, the Lord hath kept 
back Bileam from honour. But Bileam said to Balak, 
Did I not tell thy messengers whom thou sentest to me, 
saying, If Balak would give me the fulness of his trea- 
sures of silver and gold, I have no power to transgress 
the decree of the Word of the Lord, to do good or evil 
of my own will: what the Lord saith shall I not speak ? 
And now, behold, I return to go to my people. Come, 
I will give thee counsel: Go, furnish tavern houses, 
and employ seductive women to sell food and drinks 
cheaply, and to bring this people together to eat and 
drink, and commit whoredom with them, that they 
may deny their God; then in a brief time will they be 


430 TARGUM OF PALESTINE .זנ‎ 


delivered into thy hand, and many of them fall. Never- 
theless, after this they will still have dominion over thy 
people at the end of the days. 

And he took up the parable of his prophecy, and said : 
Bileam the son of Beor speaketh; the man speaketh 
who is more honourable than his father, because the 
mysteries hidden from prophets have been revealed to 
him; he speaketh who heard the Word from before the 
Lord, and who knoweth the hour when the Most High 
God will be wroth with him; (he speaketh) who saw 
the vision before the Almighty, seeking, prostrate on 
his face, that it should be revealed to him; the secret, 
concealed from the prophets, was disclosed unto him. 

shall see Him, but not now; I shall behold Him,‏ ך 
but it is not near. When the mighty hing of Jakob’s‏ 
house shall reign, and the Meshiha, the Power-sceptre‏ 
of Israel, be anointed, He will slay the princes of the‏ 
Moabaee, and bring to nothing all the children of Sheth,‏ 
the armies of Gog who will do battle against Israel,‏ 
and all their carcases shall fall before Him. And the‏ 
Edomaee will be utterly driven out, even the sons of‏ 
Gabela from before Israel their foes, and Israel will be‏ 
strengthened with their riches and possess them. And‏ 
a prince of the house of Jakob will arise and destroy‏ 
and consume the remnant that have escaped from Con-‏ 
stantina the guilty city, and will lay waste and ruin the‏ 
rebellious city, even Kaiserin, the strong city of the‏ 
Gentiles.‏ 

And he looked on the house of Amalek, and took up 
the parable of his prophecy, and said: The first of the 
nations who made war with the house of Israel were 
those of the house of Amalek ; and they at last, in the 
days of the King Meshiha, with all the children of the 
east, will make war against Israel; but all of them 
together will have eternal destruction in their end. 


ON NUMBERS. 431‏ [.טנצ 


And he looked upon Jethro, who had been made 
proselyte, and took up the parable of his prophecy, and 
said: How strong is thy habitation, who hast set thy 
dwelling in the clefts of the rocks! Yet so is it decreed 
that the children of the Shalmaia must be despoiled, 
but uot until Sancherib the king of Athur shall come 
and make thee captive. 

[JerusateM. And now, behold, I go to my people. 
Come now, I will counsel thee how thou art to act with 
this people. Lead them into sin; for else thou canst have 
no power against them. Nevertheless, these people are 
to prevail over thy people at the end of the days. And 
he took up the parable of his prophecy, and said : 

Bileam the son of Beor saith; the man who is more 
honourable than his father saith, for what hath been hid 
from all the prophets is revealed unto me: the man 
speaketh who heard the Word from before the Lord, and 
learned knowledge from the Most High; who saw the 
vision in the presence of the Almighty, seeking, prostrate 
on his face, when the visions of prophecy were disclosed 
to him, and he was made to foreknow of himself that he 
will fall by the sword, but that his prophecy will be 
confirmed. 

shall see Him, but not now; I shall behold Him, but‏ ד 
He is not nigh. A King is to arise from the house of‏ 
Jakob, and a Redeemer and Ruler from the house of‏ 
Israel, who will slay the strong ones of the Moabaee,‏ 
and bring to nothing and consume all the children of‏ 
the east. And Edom may inherit Mount Gabela from‏ 
their enemies, but Israel will be stronger with a mighty‏ 
host. A King will arise from the house of Jakob, and‏ 
destroy what shall remain of the strong city. And he‏ 
beheld the Amalkaah, and took up the parable of his‏ 
prophecy, and said: The house of Amalek was the first‏ 
of the peoples to make war with Israel, aud at last in the‏ 


432 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [OHAP. 


end of the days they will array battle against them; but 
their end is to perish, and their destruction to be for 
ever. And when he looked upon the Shalmaia, taking 
up the parable of his prophecy, hie said, How strong is 
thy abode, who hast set the house of thy dwelling in the 
clefts of the rock! But the Shalmaia will not be spoiled, 
until Athuria shall arise, and take thee captive. | 

And he took up the parable of his prophecy, and said : 
Woe to them who are alive at the time when the Word 
of the Lord shall be revealed, to give the good reward 
to the righteous, and to take vengeance on the wicked, 
to smite the nations and the kings, and bring these 
things upon them! And ships (lit., sails) armed for war 
will come forth with great armies from Lombarnia, and 
from the land of Italia, conjoined with the legions that 
will come forth from Constantina, and will afflict the 
Athuraee, and bring into captivity all the sons of Hber;? 
nevertheless the end of these and of those is to fall by 
the hand of the King Meshiha, and be brought to ever- 
lasting destruction. [Jenvsares. Woe to him who is 
alive when the Word of the Lord setteth Himself to give 
the good reward to the just, and to take vengeance on 
the wicked! And great hosts in Livermia will come from 
the great city, and will conjoin with them many legions 
of the Romaee, and subjugate Athuria, and 8111106 all the 
children beyond the river. Nevertheless the end of 
these and of those is to perish, and the destruction to be 
everlasting. And Bileam rose upand went to return to 
his place; and Balak also.] 

And Bileam rose up and went to return to his place, 
and Balak also went upon his way, and appointed the 
daughters of the Midianites for the tavern booths at 
Beth Jeshimoth, by the snow mountain, where they sold 


1 Vulgate, Venient in trieribus de Italid. 
5 Peschito, ‘and subjugate all the Hebrews,” 


ON NUMBERS. 4338‏ [.טצצ 


sweetmeats cheaper than their price, after the counsel of 
Bileam the wicked, at the dividing of the way. 

And Israel dwelt in the place which is called‏ .אצ 
Shittim, on account of the (Sketwtha) foolishness? and‏ 
depravity which were among them. And the people‏ 
began to profane their holiness, and to strip their bodies‏ 
to the image of Peor, and commit fornication with the‏ 
daughters of the Moabites, who brought out the image‏ 
of Peor, concealed under their bundles. And they‏ 
invited the people to the sacrifices of their idols; and the‏ 
people ate in their feasts, and bowed themselves to their‏ 
idols. And the people of the house of Israel joined‏ 
themselves to Baala-Peor, like the nail in the wood,‏ 
which is not separated but by breaking up the wood‏ 
(or, with the splinters). And the anger of the Lord‏ 
was kindled against Israel.‏ 

And the Lord said to Mosheh, Take all the chiefs of 
the people, and appoint them for judges, and let them 
give judgment to put to death the people who have gone 
astray alter Peor, and hang them before the word of the 
Lord upon the wood over against the morning sun, and 
at the departure of the sun take them down and bury 
them, and turn away the strong anger of the Lord from 
Israel. And Mosheh said to the judges of Israel, Slay 
every one a man of his tribe of those who have joined 
themselves to the idol of Peor. [Jerusarem. And 
Israel abode in Shittim; and the people began to 
commit fornication with the daughters of the Moabites. 
And they invited the people to the sacrifices of their 
idols. And Israel were united with the worshippers of 
the idol of Peor; and the anger of the Lord was strong 
against Israel. And the Word of the Lord said to 


3 Shoteh, in Chaldee, is “a fool or sot.”” The above derivation seems 
fanciful. The place took its name probably from the Acacia trees 
which may have abounded there; the Shittah, 21002096 Nilotica. 


U 


14 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cuaP. 


Mosheh, Take all the chiefs of the people and set them 
for a Sanhedrin before the Lord, and let them hang all 
who are worthy of death; and at sunset take down their 
bodies and bury them, that so may be averted the strong 
anger of the Lord from Israel. And Mosheh said to the 
princes of Israel, Slay each one a man of his house of 
them who have joined themselves to the idol of Peor.] 
And, behold, a man of the sons of Israel came, holding 
a Midianitess, and brought her to his brethren, in the 
sight of Mosheh and all the congregation of the children 
of Israel. He answered and said to Mosheh, What is 
it (that is wrong) to have company with her? If thou 
sayest, It ‘s forbidden, didst thou not thyself take a 
Midianitess, the daughter of Jethro? When Mosheh 
heard, he trembled and swooned. But they wept, and 
cried, Listen! And they stood at the door of the taber- 
nacle of ordinance. And Phinehas bar Elazar bar 
Aharon, the priest, saw, and, remembering the ordination, 
answered, and said: He who ought to kill, 16 him kill! 
Where are the lions of the tribe of Jehudah? When 
they saw, they were quiet. And he arose from among 
his Sanhedrin, and took a lance in lis hand. [Jenusaes. 
And, behold, a man of the sons of Israel came and 
brought to his brethren a Midianitha, before Mosheh 
and all the congregation of the children of Israel ; and, 
behold, they were weeping at the door of the tabernacle. 
And Phinehas bar Elazar bar Aharon, the high priest, saw, 
and arose from among the assembly, and took a lance.] 
Twelve miracles were wrought for Phinehas at the 
time that he went in after the man of Israel with the 
Midianitha. The first sign was, He would have parted 
them, but could not. 2. Their mouth was closed, 
that they could not cry out; for, had they cried out, they 
would have been rescued. 38. He drave the lance 
through both of them. 4. The lance remained fixed 


ON NUMBERS. 435‏ | טצצ 


in the wound. 5. When he bare them aloft, the lintel 
was uplifted for him until he had gone forth. 6. He 
carried them through the whole camp, six miles, without 
fatigue. 7. He held them up by his right arm, in 
sight of their kindred, who had no power to hurt him. 
8. The lance was made strong, so as not to be broken 
with the load. 9. The iron transpierced them, but 
was not withdrawn. 10. An angel came and made 
bare their corpses in sight of the people. 11. They 
lingered alive till they had been carried through the 
entire camp, lest the priest in the tabernacle should be 
defiled by the dead. 12. Their blood thickened so as 
not to flow upon him; but when he had borne them 
through the camp, it brake forth, and they died. 

Answering, he said before the Lord of the world, Can 
it be that, בס‎ account of these, twenty and four thou- 
sands of Israel shall die? Immediately the compassions 
of Heaven were moved, and the plague was stayed from 
the children of Israel. [Jerusatem. And he went in 
after the man of Israel into the tent, and thrust both of 
them, the man and the woman, through the body; and 
the plague was stayed from the children of Israel.] 
And the number who died by the pestilence was twenty 
and four thousand. [Jerusatem. And those who died 
by that plague were twenty and four thousand.] 


SECTION XLI. 
PHINEHAS. 
Ayp the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Phinehas 
the zealous, the son of Elazar bar Aharon, the priest, 


hath turned away mine anger from the children of Israel, 
in that, when zealous with My zeal, he hath slain the 


436 TARGUM OF PALUSTINE .זו‎ 


sinners who were among them ; and for his sake I have 
not destroyed the children of Israel in My indignation. 
Swearing by My Name, I say to him, Behold, I decree 
to him My covenant of peace, and will make him an 
angel of the covenant, that he may ever live, to announce 
the Redemption at the end of the days. [JervsaLeu. 
Vith the oath went Mosheh, and said unto Phinehas, 
Behold, I give to him.] And because they defamed 
him, saying, Is he not the son of Phuu, the Midianite ? 
behold; I will make him to possess the high priesthood ; 
and because he took the lance with his arm, and struck 
the Midianitess in her body, and prayed with his mouth 
for the people of the house of Israel, the priests shall 
be held worthy of the three gifts of the shoulder, the 
cheek-bone, and the inwards; and it shall be to him, 
and to his sons after him, an everlasting covenant of 
consecration, because he was zealous for the Lord, and 
propitiated for the children of Israel. Now the name 
of the man of Israel who was slain with the Midianitha 
was Zimri bar Salu, a clief of the house of his fathers 
of the tribe of Shemeon. And the name of the Midianite 
woman who was killed was Kosbi, daughter of Zur, who 
was called Shelonae, a daughter of Balak, the prince of 
the people of Moab, whose dwelling-place was in 
Midian. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Troubie 
the Midianites and slay them, because they troubled you 
by their deceitful counsels when they beguiled you in 
the matter of Peor, and of Kosbi their sister, the 
daughter of the prince of Midian, who was slain in the 
day of the plague for the matter of Peor. [JenusaLex. 
For their false dealings. ] 

XAVI. And it came to pass after the plague, that 
the compassions of the heavens were turned to avenge 
His people with judgment. And the Lord spake to 


XEVI] ON NUMBERS. 437 


Mosheh aud Elazar bar Aharon the priest, saying: Take 
the suin of the account of the whole congregation of the 
Beni Israel, from twenty years old and upward, accord- 
ing to the house of their fathers, of every one who 
goeth forth with the host in Israel. And Mosheh and 
Elazar the priest spake with the leaders, and commanded 
that they should number them in the plain of Moab, by 
the Jordan (over against) Jericho, saying, (You are to 
number them) from a son of twenty years and upward, 
as the Lord commanded Mosheh and the sons of Israel 
when they came out of the land of Mizraim. 

Reuben, the first-born of Israel: the sons of Reuben, 
Hanok, the family of Hanok ; of Phallu, the family of 
Phallu; of Hezron, the family of Hezron; of Karmi. 
the family of Karmi. These are the families of Reuben, 
and their numbers were forty-three thousand seven 
hundred and thirty. And the sons of Phallu Ehiab ; 
the sons of Eliab, Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. 
The same were Dathan and Abiram who brought toge- 
ther the congregation that gathered and made the 
division against Mosheh and Aharon in the congrega- 
tion of Korach, when they gathered together and made 
division against the Lord, and the earth opened her 
mouth and swallowed them and Korach, when the con- 
gregation of the wicked died, when the fire devoured 
the two hundred and fifty men, and they were made an 
example. But the sons of Korach were not in the 
counsel of their father, but followed the doctrine of 
Mosheh the prophet; and therefore they died not by the 
plague, nor were smitten by the fire, nor engulphed in 
the yawning of the earth. [JervsaLem. But the sons 
of Korach, who were not in the counsel of their father, 
did not 016.[ 

The Beni Shemeon,! Nemuel, Jamin, Jakin, Zerach, 


1 I have omitted the form of words recited under the name of the 


438 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHAP. 


Shaul, with their families, twenty-two thousand two 
hundred. 

Of Gad, the families of Zephon, Haggi, Suni, Ozni, 
Heri, Arod, Areli, forty thousand five hundred. 

Of Jehudah, Her and Onan. But Her and Onan 
died, on account of their sins, in the land of Kenaan. 
Of the Beni Jehudah, the families of Shela, Pherez, 
Zerach. The sons of Pherez, Hezron, Amul. The 
numbers of the families of Jehudah, seventy-six thou- 
sand five hundred. 

Of Issakar, the families of Thola, Puah, Jashub, 
Shimron, sixty-four thousand three hundred. Of Zebu- 
lon, the families of Sered, Elon, Jahleel, sixty thousand 
five hundred. Of Joseph, the Beni Menasheh, Makir, 
Gilead, Thezar, Helek, Asriel, Shekem, Shemida, 
Hepher. But Zelophehad bar Hepher had no sons, 
but daughters only; and the names of the daughters of 
Zelophehad were, Mahelah, Nohah, Hogelak, Milchah, 
and Thirzah. These are the families of Menasheh, and 
their number fifty-two thousand seven hundred. 

The Beni Ephraim, Shuthelah, Bekir, Tachan, Heran 
the son of Shuthelah, their numbers thirty-two thou- 
sand five hundred. 

The families of Benjamin, Bela, Ashbel, Ahiram, 
Shephuphia, (the sons of Bela, Ared and Naaman,) 
forty-five thousand six hundred. 

The Beni Dan, the families of Shuham, sixty-four 
thousand four hundred. 

Those of Asher, Jimnah, Jishvah, Beriah, and of the 
sons of Beriah, Heber and Malkiel. The name of the 
daughter of Asher was Sarach, who was conducted by 
six myriads of angels, and taken into the Garden 
of Eden alive, because she had made known to Jacob 


first tribe, and repeated in the other eleven, and have given the names 
and the numbers without it. 


XXVI.] ON NUMBERS. 439 


that Joseph was living. The numbers of Asher, fifty- 
three thousand four hundred. The Beni Naphtali, 
according to their families, Jaczeel, Guni, Jezer, Shillem, 
forty-five thousand four hundred. These are the num- 
bers of the sons of Israel, six hundred and one thousand 
seven hundred and thirty. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saving: Unto 
these tribes shall the land be divided by inheritances 
according to their names. ‘lo that tribe whose people 
are many thou shalt make their inheritance large, and 
to the tribe whose people are few thou shalt give a 
smaller inheritance ; to each his heritage shall be given 
according to the number of his names. Yet the land 
shall be divided by lots; according to the names of 
their fathers’ tribes they shall inherit. Their heritage 
shall be divided by lots, whether great or small. 

But these are the names of the Levites after their 
families, the families of Gershon, Kehath, Merari. These 
are the families of the Levites: the family of Lebni, 
Hebron, Maheli, Mushi, Korach. And hehath begat 
Amram; and the name of Amram’s wife was Jokebed, 
a daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi when they 
had come into Mizraim, within the walls; and she bare 
to Amram Aharon, and Mushe, and Miriam their sister. 
And to Aharon were born Nadab and Abihu, Elazar 
and Ithamar. But Nadab and Abihu died when they 
offered the strange fire from the hearth-pots before the 
Lord. And the number of them (the Levites) was 
twenty-three thousand, every male from a month old, 
and upward; for they were not reckoned among the 
children of Israel, as no possession was given them 
among the sons of Israel. These are the numbers when 
Mosheh and Elazar the priest numbered the sons of 
Israel in the plains of Moab, by Jordan, (over against) 
Jericho. And among them was not a man of the 


440 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


numbers when Mosheh and Aharon the priest took the 
sum of the children of Isracl in the wilderness of Sinai, 
because the Lord had said that dying they should die in 
the wilderness; and none of them remained except 
Kaleb bar Jephunneh, and Jehoshua bar Nun. 
XXVIII. And the daughters of Zelophehad bar 
Hepher, bar Gilead, bar Makir, bar Menasheh, of the 
family of Menasheh bar Joseph, when they heard that 
the land was to be divided to the males, came to the 
beth din, trusting in the compassions of the Lord of the 
world. And these are the names of the daughters, 
Mahelah, Nohah, Hogela, Milchah, and Thirzah. And 
they stood before Mosheh, after that they had stood before 
Elazar the priest, the princes, and all the congregation, 
at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, saying: Our 
father died in the wilderness, but he was not among the 
congregation who murmured and gathered to rebel 
against the Lord in the congregation of Korach, but 
died for his own sin; nor made he others to sin; but 
he had no male children. Why should the name of 
our father be taken away from among his family 
because he had not a male child? If we are not 
reckoned as a son, und our mother claim (or observe) 
the Jebam,? our mother will take the portion of our 
father and of our father’s brother. But if we be 
reckoned as a son, give us an inheritance among our 
father’s brethren. 
This is one of the four cases of judgment brought 
before Mosheh the prophet, and which he resolved in 
the manner above said. Of them some were judgments, 
&e.3 And Mosheh brought their cause before the Lord. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: The 
daughters of Zelophehad have fitly spoken: this hath 
been written before Me: but they are worthy that it 


* Fide Glossary, p. 69. °* The same words as recited before, p. 389. 


XXVIL | ON NUMBERS. 441 


be said of them, Give them possession and inheritance 
among the brethren of their father, and make over their 
father’s possession unto them. And when a son of 
Israel shall speak, and say, A man hath died without 
having a male child, then you shall make over his 
inheritance to his daughter: if he have no daughter, 
you shall give his possession to his brothers: if he have 
no brothers, you shall give his possession to the 
brethren of his father: but if his father had no 
brothers, then you shall give his possession to his kins- 
man who is nearest to him of his father’s family to 
inherit. And this shall be the publication of a decree 
of judgment to the children of Isracl, as the Lord 
hath commanded Mosheh. 

And the Lord said to Mosheh, Go up to this mount 
of Abaraee, and survey the land which I have given to 
the children of Israel. And thou shalt see it, but thou 
thyself shalt be gathered to thy people, as Aharon thy 
brother hath been gathered: because you were dis- 
obedient against My Word in the desert of Zin, in the 
congregation at the Waters of Strife, to sanctify Me at 
the waters in their sight: these are the Waters of Strife 
in the desert of Zin. 

Ard Mosheh spake before the Lord, saying: May 
the Word of the Lord, who ruleth over the souls of 
men, and by whom hath been given the inspiration 
of the spirit of all flesh, appoint a faithful man over 
the congregation, [Jerusatem. The Word of the Lord, 
the God who ruleth over the spirit of all flesh, appoint 
a praiseworthy man over the people of the congrega- 
tion,] who may go out before them to set battle in 
array, and may come in before them from the battle ; 
who may bring them out from the hands of their 
enemies, and bring them into the land of Israel; that 
the congregation of the Lord may not be without the 

פ טש 


44.2 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHae. 


wise, nor go astray among the nations as sheep who go 
astray, having no shepherd. And the Lord said to 
Mosheh, Take to thee Jehoshua bar Nun, a man upon 
whom abideth the Spirit of prophecy from before the Lord, 
and lay thy hand upon him, and make him stand before 
Elazar the priest and the whole congregation, and 
instruct him in their presence. And thou shalt confer a 
ray of thy brightness upon him, that all the congregation 
of the sons of Israel may be obedient to him. And he 
shall minister before Elazar the priest; and when any 
matter is hidden from him, he shall inquire for him 
before the Lord by Uraia. According to the word of 
Elazar the priest they shall go forth to battle, and come 
in to do judgment, he, and all the sons of Israel with 
him, even all the congregation. And Mosheh did as 
the Lord commanded him, and took Jehoshua and 
caused him to stand before Elazar the priest and all the 
congregation ; and he laid his hands upon him and 
instructed him, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 

XXVIII. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying : 
Instruct the children of Israel, and say to them: The 
priests may eat of My oblation the bread of the order of 
My table; but that which you offer upon My altar may 
no man eat. Is there not a fire that will consume it? 
And it shall be accepted before Me as a pleasant smell. 
Sons of Israel, My people, be admonished to offer it from 
the firstlings on the Sabbath, an oblation before Me in 
its time. (Jervsateu. Instruct the children of Israel, 
and say to them, My oblation, the bread of the order of 
My table. That which you offer upon the altar. Is 
tuere not a fire that will consume it? To be received 
from you before Me for a pleasant smell. Sons of 
Israel, My people, be admonished to offer it before Me 
in its seasou. ] 


And say to them: This is the order of the oblations 


XXVIII. | ON NUMBERS. 443 


you shall offer before the Lord; two lambs of the year, 
unblemished, daily, a perpetual burnt offering. The one 
lamb thou shalt perform in the morning, to make atone- 
ment for the sins of the night; and the second lamb 
thou shalt perform between the suns to atone for the 
sins of the day; and the tenth of three seahs of wheaten 
flour as a mincha mingled with beaten olive oil, the 
fourth of a hin. It is a perpetual burnt offering, such 
as was (ordained to be) offered at Mount Sinai, to be re- 
ceived with favour as an oblation before the Lord. And 
its libation shall be the fourth of a hin for one lamb ; 
from the vessels of the house of the sanctuary shall it be 
outpoured, a libation of old wine. [Jerusatem. From 
the vessels of the house of holiness, it shall be poured 
out a libation of choice wine unto the Name of the 
Lord.] But if old wine may not be found, bring wine 
of forty days to pour out before the Lord. And the 
second lamb thou shalt perform between the suns, 
according to the presentation of the morning, and 
according to its oblation shalt thou make the offering, 
that it may be accepted with favour before the Lord; 
but on the day of Shabbatha two lambs of the year 
without blemish, and two-tenths of flour mixed with 
olive oil for the mincha and its libation. On the 
Sabbath thou shalt make a Sabbath burnt sacrifice in 
addition to the perpetual burnt sacrifice and its libation. 

And at the beginning of your months you shall offer 
a burnt sacrifice before the Lord; two young bullocks, 
without mixture, one ram, lambs of the year seven, 
unblemished; and three tenths of flour mingled with 
oil for the mincha for one bullock; two tenths of flour 
with olive oil for the mincha of the one ram; and one 
tenth of flour with olive oil for the mincha for each 
lamb of the burnt offering, an oblation to be received 
with favour before the Lord. And for their libation to 


4 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


be offered with them, the half of a hin for a bullock, the 
third of a hin for the ram, and the fourth of a hin for a 
lamb, of the wine of grapes. This burnt sacrifice shall 
be offered at the beginning of every month in the time 
of the removal of the beginning of every month in the 
year; and one kid of the geats, for a sin offering before 
the Lord at the disappearing (failure) of the moon, with 
the perpetual burnt sacrifice shalt thou perform, with its 
libation. 

And in the month of Nisan, on the fourteenth day of 
the month, is the sacrifice of the Pascha before the Lord. 
On the fifteenth day of this month is a festival; seven 
days shall unleavened be eaten. On the first day of the 
festival a holy convocation ; no servile work shall ve do; 
but offer an oblation of a burnt sacrifice before the Lord, 
two young bullocks, one ram, and seven lambs of the 
year, unblemished, shall you have. And their minchas of 
wheat flour, mingled with olive oil, three tenths for each 
bullock, two tenths for the ram, and for a single lamb a 
tenth, so for the seven; and one kid of the goats, to 
make an atonement for you: beside the burnt sacrifice 
of the morning, the perpetual burnt sacrifice, you shail 
make these offerings. According to these oblations of 
the first day you shall do daily through the seven days 
of the festival. It is the bread of the oblation which is 
received with favour before the Lord; it shall be made 
beside the perpetual burnt offering, with its libation. 
And on the seventh day you shall have a holy convoca- 
tion; no servile work shall you do. 

Likewise on the day of your firstlings, when you offer 
the gift from the new produce before the Lord in your 
ingatherings, after the seven weeks are completed, you 
shall have a holy convocation, no servile work shall you 
do; but offer a burnt sacrifice to be received with favour 
before the Lord, two young bullocks, one ram, seven 


ON NUMBERS, 445‏ [.צנצצ 


lambs of the year; also their mincha of wheaten flour 
mingled with olive oil, three tenths for each bullock, 
two tenths for the ram, a tenth toa lamb; so for the 
seven lambs one kid of the goats to make an atonement 
for you; beside the perpetual burnt offermg you shall 
make these; they shall be unblemished, with their 
libation of wine. 

XXIX. And in the seventh month, the month of 
Tishri, on the first of the month you shall have a holy 
convocation, you may not do any servile work ; it shall 
be to you a day for the sounding of the trumpet, that 
by the voice of your trumpets you may disturb Satana 
who cometh to accuse you. And you shall make a 
burnt sacrifice to be received with favour before the 
Lord ; one young bullock, one ram, lambs of the year 
seven, unblemished ; and their mincha of wheaten flour 
mingled with olive oil, three tenths for the bullock, two 
tenths for the ram, and one tenth for each of the seven 
lambs; and one kid of the goats for a sin offering to 
make an atonement for you; besides the sacrifice for 
the beginning of the month and its mincha, and the 
perpetual sacrifice and its mincha; and their libations 
according to the order of their appointments, an oblation 
to be received with favour before the Lord. 

And on the tenth of the seventh month, the month of 
Tishri, you shall have a holy convocation, and chasten 
your souls (by abstaining) from food and drink, the 
bath, friction, sandals, and the marriage bed; and you 
shall do no servile labour, but offer a sacrifice before the 
Lord to be received with favour; one young bullock, 
one ram, lambs of the year seven, unblemished, shall you 
have; and their mincha of wheat flour mingled with 
olive oil, three tenths for the bullock, two tenths for one 
ram, a single tenth for a lamb, so for the seven lambs, 
one kid of the goats for a sin offermg; beside the 


446 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


sin offering of the expiations, (Lev. xvi.,) and the 
perpetual sacrifice and their minchas, and the wine of 
their libations. 

And on the fifth day of the seventh month you shall 
have a holy convocation, no servile work shall you do ; 
but shall celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles before the 
Lord seven days, and offer a sacrifice, an oblation to be 
received with favour before the Lord: thirteen young 
bullocks proceeding daily and diminishing their num- 
ber, (in all) seventy for the seventy nations, and offering 
them by thirteen orders;* two rams, which you shall 
offer by two orders; lambs of the year fourteen, un- 
blemished, to be offered by eight orders, offering six of 
them, by two and two, and two of them one by one, 
they shall be perfect. Their mincha also of wheat 
flour, with olive oil, three tenths for each bullock of 
the thirteen, two tenths for each ram, a single tenth 
for each of the fourteen lambs, and one kid of the goats 
for a sin offering, which shall be offered by one order, 
beside the perpetual sacrifice, the wheat flour for the 
mincha, and the wine of the libation. 

On the second day of the Feast of Tabernacles you shall 
offer twelve young bullocks, by twelve orders; two rams, 
by two orders; fourteen lambs of the year unblemished 
by nine orders, five of them shall offer two by two, and 
four of them one by one. And their mincha of wheat 
flour, and the wine of their libation which shall be offered 
with the bullocks, rams, and lambs, by their number 
according to the order of their appointment; and one 
ram by one order, a sin offering, beside the perpetual 
sacrifice, and the wheat flour of their minchas, and their 
libations of wine. 

On the third day of the Feast of Tabernacles you shall 


“ Mattarta: thirteen of the twenty-four orders or classes of priests. 
Vide Mishna, Succah, 5, § 6. 


XXIX. | ON NUMBERS. 447 


offer twelve bullocks by twelve orders; two rams by two 
orders, fourteen unblemished lambs of the year, by 
ten orders; four of them shall offer two and two, and 
six of them one by one; and their mincha of wheat 
flour, and their libations of wine, you shall offer with 
the bullocks, rams, and lambs, by the number in their 
appointed order; and one kid of the goats for a sin 
offering by one order; beside the perpetual sacrifice, the 
wheat flour for the mincha, and its libation of wine. 

On the fourth day of the Feast of Tabernacles, ten 
young bullocks by ten orders; two rams by two orders; 
fourteen unblemished lambs of the year by twelve orders ; 
three of them shall be offered at two times, and eight 
of them singly; their mincha of wheaten flour, and 
their libations of wine, which you shall offer with the 
the bullocks, rams, and lambs by their number, after 
their appointed order, and one kid for a sin offering, by 
one order ; beside the perpetual sacrifice, the wheat flour 
for the mincha, and its libation of wine. 

On the fifth day of the Feast of Tabernacles, nine 
young bullocks by nine orders ; two rams by two orders ; 
lambs of the year fourteen, perfect by twelve orders ; 
two of them in a pair, twelve singly; and the wheat 
flour for their mincha, and the libation wine for the 
bullocks, the rams, and lambs by their number after the 
order of their appointment; and one kid for a sin offer- 
ing by one order ; beside the perpetual sacrifice and the 
wheat flour for the mincha, and the wine of its libation. 

On the sixth day of the Feast of Tabernacles, eight 
young bullocks by eight orders; two rams by two 
orders; fourteen unblemished lambs of the year by 
thirteen orders; a pair of them together, and twelve of 
them singly. Their mincha of wheat flour, and their 
libation of wine, you shall offer with the bullocks, rams, 
and lambs, by their number in the order appointed; and 


148 TARGUM OF PALESTINE ,אס‎ 


one kid for a sin offering by one order, besides the per- 
petual sacrifice, the wheat flour for the mincha, the wine 
of its libation, and a vase of water to be outpoured 
on the day of the Feast of Tabernacles in grateful 
acknowledgment (for a good memorial) of the showers 
of rain. 

On the seventh day of the Feast of Tabernacles you 
shall offer seven bullocks by seven orders; two rams 
by two orders ; fourteen unblemished lambs of the year 
by fourteen orders: the number of all these lambs ninety- 
eight, to make atonement against the ninety-eight maie- 
dictions. And their mincha of wheat flour and libations 
of wine you shall offer with the bullocks, rams, and lambs, 
by their number, according to the order appointed ; 
and one kid by one order, beside the perpetual sacri- 
fice, the wheat flour for the mincha, and its libation of 
wine. 

And on the eighth day you shall gather together [01 - 
fully from your tabernacles, in your houses, a gladsome 
company, a festal day, and a holy convocation shall you 
have, no servile work shall you do, but offer a sacrifice, 
an oblation to be received with favour before the Lord ;-- 
light oblations; one bullock before the one God, one 
ram for the one people, lambs of the year unblemished, 
seven, for the joy of the seven days. Their mincha of 
wheat flour, and their libations of wine which you shall 
offer with the bullocks, rams, and lambs, by their number, 
after the order of their appointment; and one kid fora sin 
offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice, the flour for its 
mincha, and the wine for its libation. These you shall 
offer before the Lord in the time of your festivals, 
beside your vows which you vow at the festival, and 
which you shall bring on the day of the feast, with 
your free-will oblation for your burnt sacrifice, your 
mincha, libations, and consecrated victims. 


XXX.] ON NUMBERS, 449 


And Mosheh spake to the sons of Israel,‏ .רא 
according to all that the Lord had commanded Mosheh.‏ 





SECTION XLII. 
MATTOTH. 


Mosheh spake with the chiefs of the Tribes of‏ פב 
the Beni Israel, saying: This is the Word which the‏ 
Lord hath spoken, saying: A man, a son of thirteen‏ 
years, when he shall have vowed a vow before the Lord,‏ 
or have sworn an oath, saying, I will withhold from such‏ 
a thing which is permitted to me, shall not be allowed‏ 
to relax his word (at his own will): nevertheless, the‏ 
house of judgment (beth dina) can absolve him; but if‏ 
they absolve him not, whatsoever hath gone out of his‏ 
mouth he shall perform.‏ 

And a female who hath not passed twelve years when 
she hath vowed a vow before the Lord, and hath bound 
herself in her father’s house until her thirteenth year ; 
and her father hear her vow, and whatever bond she hath 
bound upon her soul, and her father be acquiescent, and 
speak not to her; then every vow and every bond which 
she hath bound upon her soul shall be confirmed. But 
if her father prohibit her on the day that he heareth, or, 
not being prepared to confirm, annulleth after he hath 
heard, (then) no vow or bond that she hath bound upon 
her soul shall be confirmed; but is remitted and for- 
given her before the Lord, because her father hath 
made her free from the authority of the vow, (or, nullified 
‘to her the power of the vow.) And if when she hath 
been taken by a husband a vow be upon her, or her lips 
have expressed that which is binding upon her soul 
while in her father’s house, and her father had not 
absolved her while unmarried, then, when she hath been 


450 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


married, it shall be confirmed. But if after she is 
married she make a vow, and her husband hear it, and 
on the day that he heareth it he is minded to confirm 
it, and is silent to her, then the vow and the bond 
which she hath bound upon her soul shall be ratified. 
But if her husband prohibit her on the day that he 
heareth, then the vow which is upon her, and the utter- 
ance of her lips which bound her soul, are remitted and 
forgiven her. Yet the vow of a widow, or a divorced, 
whatever hath bound her soul, shall be confirmed upon 
her. But if, while she was in her husband’s house, or 
while she had not attained to marriage years, she had 
vowed, or bound her soul with the bond of an oath 
which her husband had heard of, and had neither 
spoken nor prohibited her, or had died before she was 
married, then all her vows shall be confirmed, and all 
the obligations with which she had bound her soul be 
ratified, and her father shall have no power to absolve 
her. But if her husband released her (JERUSALEM. 
Her husband released her] on the day that he heard, 
then, whatever her lips had pronounced to be a vow, or 
a bond upon her soul, shall not be confirmed ; and if 
her husband had annulled them, [Jerusatem. Her 
husband had released them,] and she, not knowing, had 
performed, it shall be forgiven her before the Lord. Every 
vow, every oath-bond to chasten the soul, her husband 
may ratify or annul. But if her husband was silent and 
consented when he heard from one day to the next, then 
all her vows and all the bonds upon her are ratified; by 
his silence he hath confirmed them; for he was silent to 
her on the day, and consented, and absolved her not on 
the day that he heard. But if, absolving, he would 
absolve her one day after he had heard, there is no force 
in the absolution; and if he then nullify the word, her 
husband or her father shall bear her sin. These are the 


ON NUMBERS. 451‏ [,זאצצ 


publications of the statutes which the Lord commanded 
Mosheh (on these matters) between a man and his wife, 
and a father and his daughter in the day of her youth 
in her father’s house; [Jervsatem. In the time of 
her youth in her father’s house ;[ but not in the time 
of her youth, and she be in the house of her husband. 
XXXI. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Take retribution for the children of Israel from the 
Midianites ; and afterward thou shalt be gathered to 
thy people. And Moses spake with the people, saying : 
Arm of you men, [JErusaLem. Arm of you, ] for the host 
to make war against Midian, to give the people of the 
Lord avengement upon Midian ; a thousand of each tribe 
of all the tribes of Israel send ye to the war. And of 
the thousands of Israel fit men were chosen who gave 
up themselves, a thousand of a tribe, twelve thousand, 
armed for the war. And Mosheh sent them, a thou- 
sand of each tribe to the war, them and Phinehas bar 
Elazar the priest unto the war, with the Uraia and 
Thummaia consecrated to inquire for them, and the 
Jubilee trumpets in his hand for assembling, encamping, 
and ordering forward the host of Israel. And they 
warred against Midian, circumventing them from three 
corners, as the Lord had instructed Mosheh, and they 
killed every male; and they slew the kings of the 
Midianites with the slain of their armies, Evi, Rekem, 
Zur, who is Balak, and Hur and Reba, five kings of 
Midian ; and Bileam bar Beor they killed with the 
sword. And it was when Bileam the guilty saw 
Phinehas the priest pursuing him, he made use of his 
magical arts, (lit., made words of. enchantment,) and 
flew in the air of the heavens; but Phinehas forthwith 
pronounced the Great and Holy Name, and flew after 
him, and seized him by his head, and bringing him 
down drew the sword, and sought to kill him; but he 


452 TARGUM OF PALLSTINE [CHAP. 
opened his mouth with words of deprecation, and said 
to Phinehas : If thou wilt spare my life, I swear to thee 
that all the days I live I will not curse thy people. 
He answered him, and said: Art thou not Laban the 
Aramite, who didst seek to destroy Jakob our father, 
who wentest down into Mizraim, to destroy his children, 
and, after they had come out of Mizraim, didst send the 
wicked Amalek against them; and hast thou not now 
been sent to curse them? But after thou hadst seen 
that thy works did not prosper, and that the Word of 
the Lord would not hear thee, thou didst give the evil 
counsel to Balak to set his daughters in the way to 
make them go wrong, when there fell of them twenty- 
four thousand. Therefore, it cannot be that thy life may 
be spared; and at once he drew the sword and slew him. 

And the sons of Israel led captive the wives of the 
Midianites, their children, their cattle, and all their 
flocks, and destroyed all their goods; and all their 
towns, the houses of their rulers, and the high places of 
their houses of worship,they burned with fire; but they 
took all the spoil and the prey both of men and beasts, 
and brought to Mosheh, Elazar the priest, and ail the 
congregation of Israel, the captives, the prey, and the 
spoils, at the camp in the fields of Moab, by the Jordan, 
near Jericho. 

And Mosheh and Elazar the priest, with all the 
heads of the congregation, went forth to meet them 
without the camp. But Mosheh was angry with the 
leaders appointed over the host, the chiefs of thousands 
and of hundreds who came from the war with the host; 
and Mosheh said to them, Why have you spared all 
the women? These are they who caused the offence of 
the sons of Israel, by the counsel of Bileam, to do 
wrongly before the Lord in the matter of Peor, so that 
pestilence came upon the congregation of the Lord. 


ON NUMBERS. 453‏ [,זצצצ 


Now, therefore, slay every male among the children, 
and every woman who hath known a man; but every 
female child you shall stand before the Crown of Holi- 
ness, (the priest’s tiara,) and look upon her: she who is 
not a virgin will be pallid in the face, but she who is a 
virgin child will blush in the face, like fire; them you 
shall spare, But as for you, abide without the camp 
seven days; whoever hath slain a man, or touched the 
dead, you shall sprinkle on the third; and on the 
seventh day, both you and your captives, and every 
garment, and whatever is made of skin, goats’ hair, horn, 
or bone, and every vessel of wood, you shail sprinkle. 
And Elazar the priest said to the men of the host 
who had returned from the war: This is the mauifes- 
tation of the decree of the law which the Lord hath 
commanded to Mosheh. Nevertheless, these (articles) 
without their rust, the gold, silver, brass, iron, tin, and 
lead, [Jenusateu. Tin and lead,] their vessels, but 
not the unformed and simple (metals), every thing 
whose nature it is to abide the fire, of the pans, pots, 
spits, and gridirons, you shail make to pass through fire 
to purify them, and afterward (sprinkle them) with 
water such as is used to purify the unclean; but what- 
ever will not abide the fire, coverlids, cups, flagons, and 
utensils, you shall make to pass through forty sata of 
water; and you shall wash your raiment on the seventh 
day to be clean, and afterwards come into the camp. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Take the 
sum of the prey of the captives, both of man and beast, 
and take their amount, thou and Elazar the priest, and 
the chiefs of the fathers of the congregation ; and divide 
the spoil between the men of war who took the spoil in 
the conflict of battle, having gone forth with the host, 
and between all the congregation; and separate that - 
which is to be given up to the Name of the Jord by the 


4.54 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


men of war who went forth with the host: one woman 
out of five hundred; so, likewise, of oxen, asses, and 
sheep. From their half, the portion of the men of war, 
shalt thou take them, and give to Elazar the priest, as a 
separation unto the Name of the Lord ; but of the half 
(falling to) the children of Israel thou shalt take one 
out of fifty of the women, and of the oxen, the asses, 
and of all the cattle, and give them to the Levites who 
keep charge of the Lord’s tabernacle; and Mosheh and 
Elazar the priest did as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And the amount of the prey, the rest of the spoil 
which had been taken |, the people who went forth in 
the host,—the number of the sheep was six hundred 
and seventy-five thousand ; oxen, seventy-two thousand ; 
asses, sixty-one thousand; persons, the women who had 
not known man, all the persons thirty-two thousand. 
And the half of the portion for the men who had gone 
to the war, the number of the sheep was three hundred 
and thirty-seven thousand five hundred ; and the amount 
of that brought up for the Name of the Lord was of sheep 
six hundred and seventy-five ; oxen thirty-six thousand, 
those for the Name of the Lord seventy-two; asses 
thirty thousand five hundred, for the Name of the Lord 
sixty-one; persons sixteen thousand, for the Name of 
the Lord thirty-two. And Mosheh gave the number 
separated to the Name of the Lord unto Elazar the 
priest, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. And the half 
part for the children of Israel which Mosheh divided 
from the men’s who went forth to the war, the amount 
was three hundred and thirty-seven thousand five hundred 
sheep, thirty-six thousand oxen, thirty thousand five 
hundred asses, and sixteen thousand women. And 
Mosheh took from the half part for the children of 
Israel of that which had been captured, one out of fifty, 
whether of man or beast, and gaye it to the Levites who 


ON NUMBERS. 455‏ [,צצצצ 


kept charge of the tabernacle of the Lord, as the Lord 
commanded. Mosheh. 

And the officers who had been appointed over the 
thousands of the host, the captains of thousands and of 
hundreds, drew near to Mosheh, and they said to Mosheh, 
Thy servants have taken the account of the men of war 
who have been with us, and not any of them are wanting. 
And we have brought a gift unto the Name of the Lord, 
forasmuch as the Lord hath delivered the Midianites 
into our hands, and we have been able to subdue their 
land and their cities. And we entered into their 
chambers, and there saw their daughters, fair, tender, 
and delicate; and every man who found on them jewels 
of gold, loosened the coronets from their heads, the ear- 
rings from their ears, the necklaces from their necks, 
the bracelets from their arms, the rings from their 
fingers, and the brooches from their bosoms ;—but in all 
this we abstained from lifting our eyes upon themselves, 
or gazing on one of them, lest we should sin with any 
one of them, and die the death which the wicked die in 
the world to come. And may this be had in memorial 
for us in the day of the great judgment, to make pro- 
pitiation for our souls before the Lord. [JerusaLem. 
And we have brought the oblation of the Lord. When 
we entered into the houses of the Midianite kings, and 
into their sleeping-chambers, and saw there the fair and 
delicate daughters of the Midianite kings, we took from 
their heads their golden coronets, the earrings from 
their ears, the rings from their fingers, the bracelets 
from their arms, and the jewels from their bosoms ; yet, 
Mosheh our master! far was it from us,—not one of us 
was united with any one of them, neither will he be 
companion with her in Gehinnom. In the world to 
come may it stand to us, in the day of the great judg- 
ment, to propitiate for our souls before the Lord.] 


456 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHAP. 


And Mosheh and Elazar the priest took the gold 
from them, every article fabricated ; and the sum of all 
the gold of the separation which they had sepa- 
rated unto the Name of the Lord was sixteen thousand 
seven hundred and fifty shekels, from the captains of 
thousands and of hundreds. For the men of the host 
had taken spoil, every man for himself. And Mosheh 
and Elazar the priest took the gold from the captains of 
thousands and of hundreds, and brought it into the 
tabernacle of ordinance, a good memorial of the sons of 
Israel before the Lord. 

XXNXIT. Now the sons of Reuben and of Gad possessed 
much cattle, exceeding much: and they surveyed the 
land of Mikvar and of Gilead, and, behold, it was a 
region suitable for cattle folds. [Jervsarem. And they 
saw the land of Mikvar and of Gilead, and, behold, it was 
a place of wealth.] And the sons of Gad and Reuben 
came and spoke to Mosheh, Elazar, and the princes of 
the congregation, saying: Makelta, Madbeshta, Mikvar, 
Beth Nimre, Beth Hoshbane, Maalath Meda, Shiran, 
Beth Kebureth, de Moshe, and Behon, [JervsaLem. 
Makalta, Madbeshta, Mikvar, Beth Nimrin, Heshbon, 
Elhala, Shebam, Nebo, and Behan,] the land which 
the Lord hath subdued, and whose inhabitants he hath 
smitten before the congregation of Israel, is a land 
suitable for cattle, and thy servants have cattle. [Jerv- 
saLEM. Wealth.] They said therefore, If we have 
found grace before thee, let this land be given to thy 
servants for a possession, and let us not pass over 
Jordan. 

But Mosheh said to the sons of Gad and Renben, 
Shall your brethren go to the war, and you sit down 
here? And why should you enfeeble (JErusaLeu. 
And why do you break] the will of the sons of Israel 
from going over to the land which the Lord hath given 


ON NUMBERS. 457‏ [,דוצצצ 


to them? So did your fathers when I sent them from 
Rekem Giah to survey the land: they went up to the 
brook of Ethkela, and saw the land, [JerusaLem. They 
went unto Segola, and saw the land,] but enfeebled the 
will of Israel’s heart, that they would not enter into the 
land which the Lord had given to them. And the 
anger of the Lord was that day moved, and He sware, 
saying, If these men who came out of Mizraim from 
twenty years old and upward shall see the land which I 
covenanted to Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, because they 
have not fully (walked) according to My fear; except 
Kaleb bar Jephunneh the Kenezite, and Jehoshua bar 
Nun, for they have fully (walked) after the fear of the 
Lord. And the anger of the Lord was moved against 
Israel, and He made them wander in the wilderness forty 
years, until all that generation which did evil before the 
Lord have been consumed. And, behold, you are risen up 
after your fathers, disciples of wicked men, to increase 
yet the anger of the Lord against Israel. [JeRusaLEM. 
You have multiplied the men of sin yet to increase the, 
strength of His displeasure.] For if you go back from 
fearing Him, He will still make them abide in the 
wilderness, and so will you destroy all this people. 

And they drew near to him, and said, We will build 
sheepfolds for our flocks, and towns for our families; but 
we will go armed among the sons of Israel until we have 
brought them into their place: but our families shall dwell 
in towns defended against the inhabitants of the land. 
[JerusaLen. In citiesfortified againstthe (former) masters 
of the land.] We will not return to our homes until the 
sons of Israel possess every one his inheritance. For we 
will not inherit with them over the Jordan and beyond; 
for our inheritance cometh to us beyond Jordan eastward. 

And Mosheh said to them, If you will perform this 
thing; if you will go forth armed before the people of 

x 


+8 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP, 


the Lord to the war, if some of you armed will pass 
over Jordan before the Lord’s people to go on with the 
war until He hath driven out the enemy before Him, 
and the land be subdued before the people of the Lord, 
then afterwards you shall return, and be acquitted 
before the Lord and by Israel ; and this land shall be 
yours for an inheritance before the Lord. But if you 
will not perform this, behold, ye will have sinned before 
the Lord your God, and know that your sin will meet you. 
Build (then) cities for your little ones and folds for 
your sheep, and do that which hath proceeded from 
your mouth. [Jerusatem. Build cities for your little 
ones and folds for your sheep, and do that which hath 
come out of your mouth. ] 

And the sons of Gad and Reuben spake to Mosheh 
with one consent, saying, Thy servants wi!l do what- 
ever my lord hath commanded: our children, wives, 
flocks, and all our cattle shall be here in the cities of 
Gilead ; but thy servants will go over, every one armed 
for the host, before the people of the Lord to the war, as 
my lord hath said. 

And Mosheh commanded concerning them Elazar 
the priest, and Jehoshua bar Nun, and the heads of the 
tribes of the Beni Israel, and said to them: If the sons 
of Gad and of Reuben go over the Jordan with you, 
every one armed for the war, before the people of the 
Lord, and the land be subdued before you, then shall 
you give to them the land of Gilead for a possession. 
But if they will not pass over armed with you, then they 
shall receive an inheritance among you in the land of 
Kenaan. But the sons of Gad and Reuben answered and 
said: Whatsoever the Lord hath spoken to thy servants 
so will we do. We will go over armed before the Lord’s 
people into the land of Kenaan, that our inheritance 
may be on this side the Jordan. 


XXXILI.] ON NUMBERS. 459 


And Mosheh gave to them, the sons of Gad and of 
Reuben, and to the half tribe of Menasheh bar J oseph, 
the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amoraee, and 
the kingdom of Og king of Mathnan, the land with 
its cities by the limits of the cities of the land round 
about. And the sons of Gad built (rebuilt) Madbashta 
and Maklalta and Lechaiath, [Jerusatem. And the sons 
of Gad built Debeshta, and Maklalta, and Lechaiath,] 
and Maklelath, Shophena, and Mikvar Geramatha, 
(Jervsatem. And Maklalta of Shophan, and Makvar, 
and Jegbeha,] and the strong city of Beth Nimrin, 
and Beth Haran, fenced cities (with) folds for sheep. 
And the sons of Reuben built (rebuilt) Beth Heshbon 
and Mahalath Mera, and the city of the two streets 
paved with marble which is Beresha, and the place of 
the sepulchre of Mosheh, and (rebuilt) the city of Balak, 
destroying out of it the idol of Peor, in the house 
of his high places, and the city whose walls surrounded 
it, inscribed with the names of his heroes, and Shiran. 
And after they had built them they called their names 
after the names of the men who had built them. 

And the sons of Makir bar Menasheh went to Gilead 
and subdued it, and drave out the Amoraee who were 
therein. And Mosheh gave Gilead to Makir bar 
Menasheh, and he dwelt in 16. And Jair bar Menasheh 
went and subdued their villages, and called them the 
villages of Jair. And Nobach went and subdued 
Kenath and its villages, and called it Nobach, after his 
own name. 


SECTION XLIII. 
MASEY. 


XXXII. Turse are the journeys of the Beni Israel 
who came out from Mizraim by their hosts, after the 


460 TARGUS OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


miracles had been wrought for them by the hand of 
Mosheh and Aharon. And Mosheh recorded their out- 
goings by their journeys by the Word of the Lord; and 
these are their journeys by their goings forth. 

They departed from Pelusin in the month of Nisan, on 
the fifteenth day of the month; after they had eaten the 
sacrifice of the Pascha did the children of Israel go 
forth, with uncovered head, in sight of all the Mizraee. 
[Jenusatem. And they went out from Pelusin in the 
first month.] And the Mizraee buried those whom the 
Lord had killed among them, even all the first-born ; 
and upon their idols did the Word of the Lord do judg- 
ments ; their molten idols were dissolved, their idols of 
stone were mutilated, their idols of earthenware broken 
in pieces, their wooden idols turned to ashes, and their 
cattle gods were slain with death. 

And the sons of Israel went forth from Pelusin, and 
encamped in Sukkotb, a place where they were pro- 
tected by seven glorious clouds. And they removed 
from Sukkoth, and encamped in Etham, on the side of 
the wilderness. They removed from Etham, and returned 
unto Pumey Hiratha, which lie in front of the idol of 
Zephon, and encamped before Migdol. ] 
And removing from Etham they returned to the cara- 
vansaries of Hiratha, which are in front of the idols.] 
And from the caravansaries of Hiratha they removed, 
and passed through the midst of the sea, and went upon 
the shore of the sea, collecting onyx stones and pearls. 
Afterwards they proceeded three days’ journey in the 
wilderness of Etham, and encamped in Marah. And 
they removed from Marah, and came to Elim; in Elim 
were twelve fountains of water for the twelve tribes, and 
seventy palm trees, answering to the seventy sages; and 
they encamped there by the waters. [JeRusaLemM. And 
they removed from Marah and came to Elim: in Elim 


XXXIIL] ON NUMBERS. 461 


were twelve fountains of water, answering to the twelve 
tribes of Israel, and seventy palm trees, answering to 
the seventy elders of the Sanhedrin of Israel; and they 
encamped there.} And they removed from Elim, and 
camped on the banks of the Sea of Suph; and they 
removed from the banks of the sea, and encamped in the 
wilderness of Sin; thence to Dopheka, Kerak Takiph 
(the strong tower), Rephidim, where, because their 
hands were (raphin) neglectful of the words of the 
law, there was no water for the people to drink; 
thence to the wilderness of Sinai; thence to the Graves 
of those who desired flesh; thence to Hazeroth, where 
Miriam the prophetess was struck with leprosy ; thence 
to Rithema, the place of many juniper trees; thence to 
Rumana, whose fruit is hard ; 5 thence to Libnah, whose 
borders are built of bricks (ddzetha); thence to Beth 
Rissa; thence to Kehelath, where Korach and his compani- 
ons banded together against Mosheh and Aharon; thence 
to the mountain whose fruit is good ; thence to Harada, 
where they were confounded by the evil plague; thence 
to Makheloth, the place of congregation; thence to the 
lower Makheloth; thence to Tharach, and Muka, whose 
waters were sweet; thence to Hasmona; thence to 
Meredotha, the place of rebellion (or chastisement) ; 
thence to Bere-Haktha, Gudgad, at the Rocks, Jote- 
bath, a good and quiet place; thence to the Fords; 
thence to Tarnegolla, the tower of the cock; thence to 
the wilderness of Zin; at the Iron Mount, which is 
Rekem; thence to Mount Umano, on the borders of 
the Land of Edom. And Aharon the priest went up 
to Mount Umano by the Word of-the Lord, and died 


5 The expression “and they removed from” such a place occurs in 
the recital of all these stages. I have henceforward omitted it, and 
given only the place of each encampment in succession. 

5 From rimmon, " 8 pomegranate.” (?) 


462 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


there, in the fortieth year from the going out of the 
children of Israel from Mizraim, in the fifth month, on 
the first of the month. And Aharon was one hundred and 
twenty-three years old when he died on Mount Umano. 

And Amalek the wicked, who was combined with the 
Kenaanites, and reigned in Arad,—the house of his 
abode was in the land of the south,—heard that the 
sons of Israel were coming to wage war against them, 
and utterly to destroy their cities. 

And they removed from Mount Umano, and encamped 
in Zalmona, a place of thorns, and narrow (or squalid), 
in the land of the Edomaee; and there the soul of the 
people was distressed on account of the way; thence to 
Punon, where the Lord sent burning serpents among 
them, and their cry went up to heaven. And they 
removed to Oboth; thence to the passage of the Fords, 
on the border of the Moabaee; thence to Dibon, the 
place of fortune ;7 thence to Almon Diblathaimah, where 
the well was hidden from them, because they had for- 
saken. the words of the law, which are as delicious as 
figs (didlatha) ; thence to the Mount Ibraee, in front 
of the place of the burial of Mosheh; thence they 
removed and encamped in the fields of Moab, by Jordan, 
near Jericho; and they encamped by the Jordan, from 
Bethjeshimon unto the plain of Sillan in the fields of 
Moab. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, in the fields of 
Moab, at the Jordan, by Jericho, saying: Speak with 
the sons of Israel, and say to them: When you have 
passed over the Jordan into the land of Kenaan, you 
shall drive out all the inhabitants of the country from 
before you, and lay waste all the houses of their wor- 
ship, destroy all their molten images, and overthrow all 
their high places. [Jerusavem. You shall destroy all 


7 Beth Mazala, “the house of the planet.” 


ON NUMBERS. 463‏ [.צזצצצ 


the inhabitants of the land from before you, make an 
end of all their idols, break their molten images, and 
overthrow all their high places.} And you shall drive 
out the inhabitants of the land, and dwell therein, for I 
have given you the land to possess it. And you shall 
inherit the land by lots, according to your families; to 
the tribe whose people are many you shall enlarge, and 
to the tribe whose people are few, you shall diminish. 
According to the place where one’s lot falleth, there 
shall his place be; you shall inherit by the tribes of 
your fathers. 

But if you will not drive out the inhabitants of the 
land from before. you, it will be that the residue whom 
you have spared looking at you with an evil eye will 
surround you as shields (¢erisiv) on your sides, and 
afflict you in the land wherein you dwell; and it shall 
be that as I had thought to do to them I will do to you. 

XXXIV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying : 
Command the sons of Israel, and say to them: When 
you have entered into the land of Kenaan, this shall be 
the land that shall be divided to you for an inheritance, 
the land of Kenaan by its limits. Your south border 
(shall be) from the Wilderness of Palms, by the iron 
mountain, at the confines of Edom, even the south 
border at the extremities of the Sea of Salt, eastward. 
And your border shall turn from the south to the ascent 
of Akrabbith, and pass on to the palms of the mountain 
of iron, and the going forth thereof shall be southward 
of Rekem Giah, and shall go onward to the tower of 
Adar, and pass over to Kesam. And the border shall 
wind round from Kesam unto Nilos, of the Mizraee, and 
its outgoings shall be to the west. 

And for the western border you shall have the Great 
Ocean Sea; its limits are the waters of the beginning,® 


8 Or, “the creation.” 


464 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


with the waters of old which are in its depth; its capes 
and havens, its creeks and its cities, its islands and 
ports, its ships and its 16065505 : 5 this shall be your 
border westward. 

And this shall be your northern border ;—from the 
Great Sea you shall appoint to you unto Mount Umanis.! 
From Mount Umanis you shall appoint to you (a line) 
as thou goest up to the entrance of Tebaria, and the 
outgoings of the border at its two sides, unto Kadkor 
of Bar Zahama, and to Kadkoi of Bar Sanigora, and 
Divakinos and Tarnegola unto Kesarin, where thou goest 
up to Abelas of Cilicia, And the border shall go on 
unto Keren Zekutha, and to Gibra Hatmona, and its 
outgoings shall be at Keria Bethsekel, and to the midst 
of the great court (dareta rabtha), which is at Mizeha, 
between the towers of Hinvetha and Darmeshek: this 
shall be your northern limit. 

And you shall appoint your eastern border from the 
towers of Hinvetha unto Apamea; and the border shall 
descend from Apamea to Dophne, eastward of Hinvetha ; 
thence the border shall go down to the cavern of Panias, 
and from the cavern of Panias to the mountain of snow, 
and from the mountain of snow to Henan, and from 
Henan the border shall go down and encompass the 
plain of the river of Arnon, and arrive at the wilderness 
and the palms of the mountain of iron, take in the 
Waters of Contention, and rest at Ginesar, a city of the 
kings of the 1200821665, the inheritance of the tribes of 
Reuben and Gad, and the half tribe of Menasheh; and 
the border shall descend and encompass the Sea of 
Genesar on the east. 

[JerusaLes. And your border shall be southward, 
from the wilderness of Rekem, over against the frontier 
of the Edomaee, and southward shall it be to you unto 


? Or, “interior.” 1 This name is here given to Mount Lebanon. 


XXXIV. | ON NUMBERS. 465 


the extremity of the Sea of Salt, eastward. And your 
south border shall go round from the ascent of Akrabim, 
which passeth over by the mountain of iron, and its 
outgoings shall be from the south unto Rekem Giah, 
and proceed to the buildings of the threshing floors, and 
pass on to Kesam. And the border shall wind round 
from Kesam unto Nilos Mizraim,? and the going out 
of it shall be at the sea. 

And the (west) border shall be the Great Ocean Sea; 
its isles, ports, and ships, with the ancient waters that are 
in it, the waters of the beginning; this shall be your 
western border. 

And this shall be your northern limit: from the 
Great Sea you shall appoint to you unto Mount Manos. 
From Mount Manos you shall extend to the entrance of 
Antiochia, and the outgoing shall be unto Abelas of the 
Cilicians; and the border shall go to Zapherin, and 
its outgoing be at the dwellings of Hainutha, unto 
Apamea, unto Dophne, east of Hainutha, and shall 
descend and come down upon the Sea of Ginesar at the 
west.] And the border shall descend to the Jordan, 
and its outgoing be at the Sea of Salt. Rekem Giah 
on the south, Mount Umanos on the north, the Great 
Sea on the west, the Sea of Salt on the east,—this shall 
be your country, the Land of Israel, by the extent 
of its borders round about. [Jerusatem. And it shall 
descend to Jordan, and have its outgoings at the Sea of 
Salt. ‘This shall be your land by its limits round about. ] 

And Mosheh commanded the sons of Israel, saying : 
This is the land which you are to inherit by lot, which 
the Lord hath commanded to give to the nine tribes and 
the half tribe. For the tribe of the children of Reuben, 
according to the house of their fathers, and tribe of Gad, 

* Not the Nile, but a small river falling into the Mediterranean, a 


little below Gaza. Compare Joshua xv. 47. 
x 5 


466 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [oHae. 


and the half tribe of Menasheh have received their inhe- 
mitance beyond the Jordan on the eastern side. [JERU- 
saLeEM. The two tribes and the half tribe have received 
their inheritance beyond Jordan-Jericho first. Their 
border goeth forth on the east from the plain of the Salt 
Sea to Kinnereth, the city of the kingdom of the Amor- 
ites, and thence to the mountain of snow, and to Hamatha 
of Lebanon; thence to Hoba, on the northern side of 
Hainutha, of Damasek, and from Hoba to Divakinos, at 
the snowy mount of Kisarion, eastward of (the town of) 
Dan, on the west, and from thence to the Great River, 
the river Phrat, upon which is the order of the victories 
of the wars of the Lord, which are to be wrought there. 
And from the Great River, the Phrat, their border 
goeth forth to the cities of Zavatha, beyond all the 
Tarkon (Trechonites), unto Zimra, the royal house of 
Sihon, king of the Amoraee, and the royal house of Og, 
king of Mathnan, going to Raphiach and to Shokmezai, 
until thou comest to the shore of the Salt Sea. This 
is the portion of the two tribes and the half tribe. ] 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: These 
are the names of the men who shall make to you the 
inheritance of the land: Elazar the priest, and Jehoshua 
bar Nun, and one prince from each of the tribes you 
shall choose to give you the inheritance of the land. 
And these are the names of the men. Of the tribe of 
Jehudah, Kaleb bar Jephunneh; for Skemeon, Shemuel 
bar Ammihud; Benjamin, 1311020 bar Kiselon; Dan, 
Buki bar Jageli; Joseph,—dlenasheh, Haniel bar 
Ephod; phraim, Kemuel bar Shiphtan; Zebudon, 
Elizaphan bar Parnak; Issakar, Paltiel bar Azan; 
Asher, Abihud bar Shelomi; Naphtali, Pedahael bar 
Ammihud. These are they whom the Lord commanded 
to divide the inheritance of the land of Kenaan to the 
children of Israel. 


Xxxv.] ON NUMBERS. 467 


XXXV. And the Lord spake with Mosheh in the 
plains of Moab, by Jordan-Jericho, saying : Command 
the sons of Israel that they give to the Levites from 
their inheritance cities to dwell in, and suburbs (open 
spaces) to the cities round about shall you give to the 
Levites. [Jenusatem. And suburbs to the cities 
round about them shall you give to the Levites.] And 
the cities shall be for them to dwell in, and the suburbs 
for their cattle, their property, and all their needful 
things. But of the cities which you give to the Levites 
the suburbs round the city shall be one thousand cubits 
without the city round about. ([Jerusatem. But the 
suburbs.] And you shall measure outside the city, on 
the east side, two thousand cubits; on the south two 
thousand, on the west two thousand, and on the north 
two thousand cubits, with the city in the midst; these 
shall be to you the suburbs of the cities. And of the 
cities you give to the Levites, six shall be for refuges to 
manslayers, that the manslayer may escape thither. 
Beside these you shall give them forty-two other cities. 
All the cities that you give to the Levites shall be forty- 
eight cities with their suburbs. But when you give the 
cities from the inheritance of the Beni Israel, from the 
tribe whose people are many you shall give many, and 
from the tribe whose people are few you shall diminish ; 
every one shall give of his cities to the Levites, accord- 
ing to the inheritance he possesses. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: Speak 
with the sors of Israel, and say to them, When you have 
passed over Jordan unto the land of Kenaan, you shall 
provide you cities with streets and houses of living 
(boarding houses), cities of refuge shall they be to you, 
that thither the mauslayer may flee who hath killed a 
man inadvertently. And they shall be to you for cities 
of refuge for the manslayer from the avenger of blood, 


468 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


that the man may not be put to death till he shall have 
stood before the congregation for judgment. And these 
cities which you give shall be six cities of refuge for the 
manslayer; three you shall appoint beyond Jordan, and 
three in the land of Kenaan; cities of refuge shall they 
be. For the sons of Israel and the sojourners among 
you shall be these six cities of refuge, that thither 
whoever hath killed a man through ignorance may flee. 

But if he smote him with an insirument of iron and 
killed him, he is a murderer ; and the murderer shall be 
surely put to death. Orif, filling his hand with a stone 
large enough to kill any one, he struck him, and killed 
him, he is a murderer, and the murderer dying shall die. 
Or if, filling his hand with an instrument of wood 
sufficient to kill any one, he struck him, and killed him, 
he is a murderer; the murderer shall be put to death. 
The avenger of blood may himself kill the manslayer, if 
he meet him outside of these cities; he may kill him in 
judgment. 

But if (the manslayer) had assaulted in enmity and 
intentionally with a club or staff, or thrown stones 
upon him with purpose of heart, and killed him; or 
cherishing enmity had struck him with his hand and 
killed him; he is a murderer; dying he shall die. The 
avenger of blood may slay the homicide when he hath 
been condemned. But if in ignorance, without keeping 
of malice, he let any thing fall upon him, having no 
intention to kill; or if without intention he let a stone 
sufficient to kill any one, or any other thing, fall upon 
him, and kill him, without having hated, or purposed to 
do him harm, then the congregation shall judge between 
him who had smitten him, and the avenger of blood, 
according to these judgments; and the congregation 
shall release the manslayer from the hand of the avenger 
of blood, and make him return to his city of refuge 


XXXV. | ON NUMBERS, 469 


whither he had fled; and he shall dwell there until the 
time that the high priest die, whom the multitude 
(sagia) had anointed with the oil of anointing ;—because 
he did not pray on the Day of Atonement in the Holy 
of Holies concerning the three great transgressions, that 
the people of the house of Israel might not be smitten 
for strange worship, or impure connexions, or the 
shedding of innocent blood, when it was in his power to 
obviate them by his prayer, and he prayed not, therefore 
hath he been condemned to die in that year. 

But if, while the high priest is yet alive, the man- 
slayer goeth out indeed from the bounds of his city of 
refuge whither he had fled, and the avenger of blood 
find him without the bounds of his city of refuge, he 
may kill the manslayer, without being guilty of death, 
for he should have abode in his city of refuge until the 
death of the high priest; but after the high priest is 
dead he may return to the land of his inheritance. 

And these indications shall be to you a decree of 
judgment for your generations in all your dwellings: 
Whosoever killeth a man, according to the word of 
witnesses fit to give testimony against him, the avenger 
of blood, or the house of judgment, shall put him to 
death. But one witness only shall not testify against a 
man to put him to death. You may not take a ransom for 
the release of a murderer who is guilty of death, for 
dying he shall die. Neither may you take ransom for 
him who hath fled to his city of refuge, so as that he 
may return to dwell in the land before the time of the 
high priest’s decease. Nor contaminate ye the land in 
which you are, because innocent blood which hath not 
been avenged will overflow the land, and there is no 
atonement made for the land upon which innocent blood 
hath been shed, but by the shedding of the blood of 
him who shed it. Therefore defile not the land in which 


470 TARGUM OF PALESTINE ({cHar. 


you are; for My Shekinah dwelleth in the midst of it; 
for Iam the Lord whose Shekinah dwelleth among the 
children of Israel. 

XXXVI. And the heads of the fathers of the family 
of the Beni Gilead bar Makir bar Menasheh, even the 
family of the Beni Gilead bar Joseph, came to the house 
of judgment, and spake before Mosheh and the princes, 
the chief fathers of the Beni Israel, and said: The Lord 
commanded Rabboni to give the land an inheritance by 
lot to the children of Israel, and Rabboni was commanded 
before the Lord to give the inheritance of our brother 
Zelophehad to his daughters. But if these marry into 
any of the tribes of the children of Israel, their inherit- 
ance will be withdrawn from that of our fathers, and 
will be added to the inheritance of the tribe which will 
have become theirs, and our lot will be diminished. 
Aud at the Jubilee of the Beni Israel their inheritance 
will be added to that of their tribe in which they will 
be; and their possession will have been withdrawn from 
the inheritance of our father’s tribe. 

Then Mosheh commanded the children of Israel by 
the Word of the Lord, saying: The tribe of the Beni 
Joseph have said well. This is the thing which the 
Lord hath commanded,—not for the generations that 
shall arise after the division of the land, but for the 
daughters of Zelophehad, saying: They may be the 
wives of them who are proper in their eves, only such 
must be of the families of their father’s tribe. That the 
inheritance of the children of Israel may not pass about 
from one tribe to another: for the children of Israel 
shall every one keep to the inheritance of their 
father’s tribe, (Verses 9 and 10 are wanting.) As the 
Lord commanded Mosheh, so did the daughters of 
Zelophehad; and Mahalah, Thirzah, Hogelah, Milchah, 
and Nohah, the daughters of Zelophehad, became wives 


XXXVI. ] ON NUMBERS. 471 


of sons of their kindred; of the family of the children 
of Menasheh bar Joseph were they wives, and their 
inheritance was with the tribe of their father’s family. 

These are the commandments and orders of judgments 
which the Lord commanded the children of Israel, by 
Mosheh, in the plains of Moab by the Jordan near 
Jericho. 


END OF THE PALESTINIAN TARGUM ON THE 
SEPHER BEMIDBAR. 


THE TARGUM OF ONKELOS 


ON THE 


ELLEH HADDEBARIM,‏ תמ 


or 


BOOK OF DEUTERONOMY. 


SECTION OF THE TORAH XLIV. 
TITLE DEBATIM. 


I. Tuese are the words which Mosheh spake with all 
Israel beyond the Jordan, reproving them because they 
had sinned in the wilderness, and had provoked (ihe 
Lord) to anger on the plains over against the Sea of 
Suph, in Pharan, where they scorned the manna; and 
in Hazeroth, where they provoked to anger on account 
of flesh, and because they had made the golden calf. 
It is a journey of eleven days from Horeb by the way of 
Mount Seir unto Rekem Giah. 

And it came to pass in the fortieth year, in the 
eleventh month, in the first day of the mouth, Mosheh 
spake with the sons of Israel according to all that the 
Lord had commanded him for them. After he had slain 
Sihon, king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, 
and Og, king of Mathnan, who dwelt at Ashtaroth in 
Edrehi; on this side Jordan in the land of Moab began 
Mosheh to explain the doctrine of this law, saying : 

The Lord our God spake with us at Horeb, saying: 
It is sufficient for you to have dwelt at this mountain: 
turn, and proceed, and go unto the mountain of the 


ON פס‎ 473 


Amoraah, and to all its habitable places in the plains, 
the mountain, the valleys, and in the south, and by the 
side of the sea; the land of the Kenaanah and Lebanon, 
unto the river, the great river Phrat; behold, I have 
set the land before you; go in and possess the land 
which the Lord covenanted to your fathers, to Abraham, 
to Izhak, and to Jakob, to give it to them, and to your 
children after them. 

And I spake to you at that time, saying: I am not 
able to bear you myself alone. “he Lord your God 
hath multiplied you; and, behold, you are this day as 
the stars of the heavens for multitude. The Lord God 
of your fathers make you a thousand times more than 
you are, and bless you, as He hath said to you! How 
can I bear alone your labour, your business, and your 
adjudgments? Provide (then) for yourselves prudent 
and sagacious men of your tribes, and I will appoint 
them to be chiefs over you. And you answered me, 
and said: The thing that thou hast spoken it is right 
that we should do. 

And 1 took the heads of your tribes, wise men and 
masters of knowledge, and appointed them chiefs over 
you, captains of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties, and of 
tens, and officers! of your tribes. And I charged your 
judges at that time, saying: Hear between your brethren, 
and judge rightly? between a man and his brother, or 
the sojourner. You shall not have respect 10 persons in 
the judgment; you shall hear little words (matters) as 
well as great; nor be afraid of the face of man, for the 
judgment is of the Lord; and the matter that is too hard 
for you bring to me, and J will hear it ; and I commanded 
you at that time all the things that you should do. 

And we departed from Horeb, and went through all 
that great and fearful desert which you saw by the way 


1 Sam, Vers., “ scribes.” ? Sam. Vers., the truth.” 


474 TARGUM OF ONKELOS (CHAP. 


of the mountain of the Amoraah, as the Lord our God 
commanded us, and we came unto Rekem Giah. And I 
said: You are come to the mountain of the Amoraah, 
which the Lord our God will give to us. See, the Lord 
thy God hath set the land before thee: arise, possess (it), 
as the Lord the God of thy fathers hath bid thee; fear 
not, nor be broken. And all of you came to me and 
said: We will send men before us, to explore the land for 
us, and bring us word about the way to go up to it, and 
to what cities we shall come. And the thing was good 
in my eyes, and I took from you twelve men, one man 
for a tribe. And they turned and went up to the moun- 
tain, and came to the brook of Ethkela, and explored it. 
And they took in their hands some of the produce of 
the land and brought to us, and returned us word, 
saying: The land which the Lord will give us is good. 
But you were not willing to go up, but were rebellious 
against the Word of the Lord your God, and murmured 
in your tents, and said: Because the Lord hath hated 
us, He hath brought us from the land of Mizraim to 
deliver us into the hand of the Amoraah to destroy us. 
To what shall we go up? Our brethren have broken 
our heart, saying: The people are greater and stronger 
than we; vast are the cities, and walled to the height of 
heaven, and we saw there also the sons of the giants. 
But I said to you: Be not broken (hearted), fear them 
not; the Word of the Lord, who leadeth on before you, 
will fight for you, according to all that He did for you 
in Mizraim in your sight ; and in the wilderness, where 
thou hast seen that the Lord thy God carrieth thee, 
as a man carrieth his child, in all the way you have 
journeyed until your coming to this place. But in this 
thing you did not believe in the Word of the Lord your 
God, who led on before you in the way to prepare for 
5 Sam. Vers., “have brought down.” 


1.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 475 


you (each) place of encampment for your sojournings, in 
the pillar of fire by night to show you in which way to 
go, and in the pillar of the cloud by day. But the voice 
of your words was heard before the Lord, and He was 
angry, and made oath, saying: If a man of the men of 
this evil generation shall see the good land which I 
sware to your fathers, save Kaleb bar Jephunneh. He 
shall see it, and I will give to him the land on which he 
hath trodden, and unto his children, because he hath 
been upright in the fear of the Lord. Also against me 
was there displeasure before the Lord on your account, 
(He) saying: Thou too art not to go in thither; 
Jehoshua bar Nun, who standeth before thee, he shall go 
in thither; strengthen him, for he is to make Israel to 
inherit ; but your little ones, who you said would be 
for prey, your children, who to-day know not good and 
evil, they shall enter therein, to them will I give it, and 
they shall possess it; but you, turn you, and go into the 
wilderness by the Weedy Sea. 

Then you answered, and said: We have sinned before 
the Lord; we will go up and wage war according to all 
that the Lord our God commanded; and you girded on 
every man his weapons of war, and began to go up to 
the mountain. But the Lord said to me: Tell them, 
You shall not go up, neither wage war; for My Shekinah 
is not among you, lest you be crushed before your 
enemies. And I told you, but you hearkened not, but 
rebelled against the Word of the Lord, and dared, and 
went up to the mountain; but the Amoraah who dwelt 
in that mountain came out against you, and pursued 
you as bees are dispersed, and smote you in Seir unto 
Hormah. And you returned, and wept before the Lord ; 
but the Lord would not receive your prayer, nor 
hearken to your words; and you dwelt in Rekem many 
days, according to the days that you abode. 


476 TALGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


II. And we turned, and journeyed to the wilderness 
by the way of the Sea of Suph, as the Lord had told 
us; and we encompassed the mountain of Seir many 
days. And the Lord spake to me, saying: You have 
been about this mountain enough for you: turn you 
northward; and command the people, saying: You are 
going through the coasts of your brethren, the sons of 
Esau, who dwell in Seir; and they will be afraid of 
you. Take great heed, quarrel not with them; for I will 
not give you of their land, not so much as you may 
tread upon with the sole of the foot; for the inheritance 
of Mount Seir I have given to Esau. You shall buy pro- 
vision of them with silver, that you may eat; and water, 
with silver, that you may drink; for the Lord thy God 
hath blessed thee in all the works of thy hands; He 
havh given thee sufficient for thy need in thy going 
about in this great wilderness; these foriy years the 
Word of the Lora thy God hath beeu thy helper, thou 
hast not wanted any thing. And we passed by from 
our brethren, the sons of Esau, who dwelt in Seir, by the 
way of the plain from Elath, and from Ezion Geber; and 
turned and passed by the way of the wilderness of Moab. 

And the Lord said to me, Distress not the Moabaee, 
nor stir thyself to make war with them; for I will not 
give thee any of their land to inherit, for I have given Le- 
chiath unto the children of Lot for an inheritance. The 
Emethanee in old times dwelt in it; a people great and 
many, and strong as the giants. They were reputed as 
giants, and like giants also they were; but the Moabites 
called them Emethanee. And in Seir dwelt the Horaee 
in former times; but the sons of Esau drave them out, 
and destroyed them, and dwelt in their places, as Israel 
did ° in the land of his inheritance which the Lord gave 
to them. 


* The Formidable. * Past for ihe future, compare aéer in verse 17. 


I] ON DEUTERONOMY. 477 


Now arise, (said I,) and go over the stream of Zared. 
And we passed over the stream of Zared. And the days 
in which we were journeying from Rekem Giah until 
we crossed the stream of Zared were thirty and eight 
years, till all the generation of the men of war were con- 
sumed from the camp, as the Lord had sworn to them. 
For the plague stroke from before the Lord was upon 
them to destroy them from among the host till they 
were consumed. 

When all the men of war had been consumed, and 
had died away from among the people, the Lord spake 
with me, saying: Thou art to-day to pass by Lechaiath, 
the frontier of Moab. But when thou comest nigh over 
against the Beni Ammon, be not troublesome to them, 
nor provoke thyself to make war with them; for I have 
not given to thee of the land of the Beni Ammon any 
inheritance; for I have given it to the children of Lot 
to inherit.—That also was reputed a land of giants; in 
old times giants did dwell in it, and the Ammonites 
called them Hashbanee; a people great and many, and 
strong as giants, but the Lord destroyed them before 
them, and cast them out, and they dwelt in their places. 
As did the sons of Esau who dwelt in Seir, when He 
destroyed the Horaee from before them, and drave them 
out, and they have dwelt in their places unto this day. 
And the Avaee, who dwelt in Pheziach unto Hazab, 
destroyed the Kaphutkaee, who came out of Kaphutkaia, 
and dwelt in their place. 

Arise, remove, and pass over the river of Arnon: be- 
hold, I have delivered into thy hand Sihon, king of Hesh- 
bon, the Amorite, and his land; begin to cast him out,and 
rouse thyself to make battle with him. This day will I 
begin to put dread of thee and fear of thee upon the 
face of the peoples which are under the whole heavens, 
who shall hear thy fame, and be broken before thee. 


478 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


And I sent ambassadors from the wilderness of Kede- 
moth unto Sihon king of Heshbon with words of peace, 
saying, May I pass through thy land by the way? I 
will go by the way, nor turn to the right or the left : 
thou shalt sell me provision for silver, and I will eat; 
and give me water for silver, and I will drink; I will 
only go through on my feet: as the Beni Esau who 
dwell in Seir, and the Moabaee who dwell in Lechaiath, 
did to me, until I pass over Jordan to the land which 
the Lord our God shall give to us. But Sihon king of 
Heshbon was not willing to permit us to pass through 
his coasts ; for the Lord thy God hardened his spirit 
and strengthened his heart, that He might deliver him 
into thy hand, as at thisday. And the Lord said to me, 
See, I have begun to deliver to thee Sihon and his 
country ; begin thou to drive him out, that thou mayest 
inherit his land. And Sihon came forth to meet us, 
he and all his people, to give battle at Jahaz; and the 
Word of the Lord our God delivered him up before us, 
and we smote him, and his sons, and all his people. 
And we subdued all his cities at that time, and consumed 
all the towns, and the men, women, and children, and 
left none to escape. Only the cattle was a booty to us, 
and the spoil of the cities which we subdued. From 
Aroer which is upon the bank of the river of Arnon, and 
the city that is by the river, even unto Gilead, there 
was no city too strong for us; for the Lord our God 
delivered all before us. Only to the land of the Beni 
Ammon thou didst not come near, nor to all the side of 
the river Jubeka, nor the cities of the mountain, nor to 
any of which the Lord our God had commanded us. 

III. And we turned, and went up the way of Math- 
nan ; 5 and Og king of Mathnan came out to meet us, 
he and all his people, to give battle at Edrehi. And 


8 Sam, Vers., Batan@a. Heb., Bashan. 


111. ] ON DEUTERONOMY. 479 


the Lord said to me, Fear him not; for I have delivered 
him into thy hand, with all his people and his land ; and 
thou shalt do to him as thou hast done to Sihon king 
of the Amoraah, who dwelt at Heshbon. And the Lord 
our God delivered Og the king of Mathnan into our 
hand with all his people, and we smote him until not a 
remnant of him escaped. And we subdued all his cities 
at that time, there was nota city which we took not 
from them, sisty cities, all the region of the territory of 
the kingdom of Ogin Mathnan. All those strong cities 
were fortified with gates and bars, beside unwalled towns 
very many. But we consumed them as we did Sihon 
king 01 Heshbon : we destroyed in all the cities the men, 
women, and children; but all the cattle and the spoil of 
the cities were a prey to us. And we took at that time 
from the hand of the two kings of the Amoraah, the 
country on this side of Jordana, from the river of Arnon 
unto the mountain of Hermon. The Zidonaee call 
Hermon Sirion, but the Amoraee call it the Mount of 
Snow.” All the cities of the plain, all Gilead, and 
all Mathnan, unto Salka and Edrehi, cities of the 
kingdom of Og in Mathnan. For only Og king of 
Mathnan remained of the remnant of the giants. Behold, 
his bedstead was a bedstead of iron: is it notin Rabbath 
of the children of Ammon, nine cubits its length, and 
four cubits its breadth, in the cubit of the kingP And 
their land (which) we took into possession at that time, 
from Aroer, upon the river Arnon, and half Mount 
Gilead, and the cities thereof, I have given to the 
tribe of Reuben, and to the tribeof Gad. And the rest 
of Gilead, and all Mathnan, the kingdom of Og, I have 
given to the half tribe of Menasheh ; al! the surround- 
ing country, even all Mathnan, which was called the 
Land of the Giants. Jaer bar Menasheh took all the 


7 Tor Talega. 


480 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHap. 


territory of Terakona,® unto the border of Geshurah and 
Aphkiros, and called it after his name, Mathnan 
Kapharne-Jair, unto this day. And to the tribe of 
Reuben, and of Gad, I have given from Gilead unto 
the river of Arnon (to) the middle of the river ® and its 
bound, unto the river Jubeka, which is the border of 
the 611110268 of Ammon. And the plain, and the Jordan, 
and the border thereof, from Genezar unto the Sea of the 
Plain, the Sea of Salt, under the declivity of the height, 
eastward. And I instructed you at that time, saying: 
The Lord your God hath given you this land to possess 
it; you shall pass over armed before your brethren the 
sons of Israel, all armed for the host. Only your wives, 
and little ones, and your cattle——for I know that 
you have much cattle,—shall abide in your cities which I 
have given you, until the Lord hath given rest to your 
brethren as well as to you, and they also possess the 
land which the Lord your God hath given to them on 
the other side of Jordana: and you shall return every man 
to his inheritance which I have given you. And I 
charged Jehoshua at that time, saying: Thine eyes have 
seen all that the Lord your Gcd hath done unto these 
two kings; so shall the Lord do to all the kingdoms to 
which thou art going over. Fear them not, for the 
Word of the Lord your God will fight for you. 


SECTION XLV. 


VAETHCHANNAN. 


An I prayed before the Lord at that time, saying: 
O Lord God, Thou hast begun to show Thy servant Thy 
9 Heb., 47002. Sam, Vers., Rigobhaah, * Or, * valley.” 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 481‏ [.צז 


greatness and Thy mighty hand; for Thou art God, whose 
Shekinah 15 in the heavens above, and Thou rulest in the 
earth, and none can do according to Thy greatness or 
Thy might. Let me, I pray, go over and see the good 
land that is beyond Jordan, that goodly mountain, and 
the place of the sanctuary. But there was displeasure 
with the Lord against me on your account, and He heard 
me not; but said to me, It is enough for thee; add not 
to speak again before Me of this thing: go up to the 
summit of the height, and lift up thy eres to the west, 
the north, the south, and the east, and see with thy eyes ; 
for thou shalt uot pass over this Jordan. But instruct 
Jehoshua, and fortify, and make him strong ; for he shall 
go over before this people, and put them in possession 
of the land which thou wilt see. And we dwelt in the 
valley over against Beth Peor. 

IV. And now, Israel, hear the statutes and the 
judgments which I am to teach you to do, that you may 
live, and go in to inherit the land which the Lord God 
of your fathers hath given you. Ye shall not add to 
the word that I command you, nor diminish from it, to 
keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I 
command you. Your eyes have seen what the Lord 
hath done with the worshippers of Baala Peor; for 
all the men who went after Baala Peor the Lord 
thy God hath destroyed from among you. But you 
who have cleaved to the fear of the Lord your God, are 
alive all of you this day. Behold, I have taught you 
statutes and judgments, as the Lord my God commanded 
me, that you may so do in the land to which you go to 
possess it. And observe, and perform ; for this is your 
wisdom and understanding in the eyes of the nations 
who will hear all these statutes, and say, Most surely 
this great people is a wise and understanding people. 
For what people so great who hath God so nigh unto it 

x 


482 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


to hearken to their prayer in the time of their tribula- 
tion, as the Lord our God (is to us) in every time that 
we pray before Him? Or what people so great which hath 
statutes and judgments so true as all this law which 1 
set before you thisday? Only take heed to thyself, and 
diligently keep thy soul, all the days of thy life, lest 
thou forget the things which thy eyes have seen, and 
they pass away from thy heart. But make them known 
to thy children, and to thy children’s children, (as was 
said) on the day when thou stoodest before the Lord 
thy God at Horeb, when the Lord said to me, Gather 
the people together before Me, and I will make them 
hear My words, that they may learn to fear Me all the 
days which they live on the earth, and may teach their 
children. And you came near, and stood at the lower 
parts of the mountain, and the mount burned with fire 
to the height of the heavens, in darkness, clouds, and 
shadow. And the Lord spake with you from the midst 
of the fire; you heard a voice of words, but you beheld 
no similitude; (there was) only the Voice. And He 
proclaimed to vou His covenant which He commanded 
you to do, (even) the Ten Words; and He wrote them 
upon two tables of stone. 

And the Lord commanded me at that time to teach 
you statutes and judgments for you to perform in the 
land whither you pass over to possess it. But take 
heed to your souls; for you saw no likeness in the day 
that the Lord spake with you from the midst of the 
fire; lest you corrupt yourselves, and make you an 
image, or the likeness of any form, the likeness of male 
or female, of any beast on the ground, or of any bird 
which flieth in the air of the expanse of the skies, of 
any reptile of the earth, or any fish of the waters, under 
the earth; and lest thou lift up thine eyes to the 
heavens, and behold the sun, or moon and stars, all the 


Iv.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 483 


host of the heavens, and go astray and worship them, 
and serve them, which the Lord thy God hath not 
appointed for any of the nations that are under the 
whole heavens. But you hath the Lord drawn nigh 
unto His service, and brought you out from the iron fur- 
nace, (even) from Mizraim, to be unto Him a people of 
inheritance, as at this day. But towards me the Lord 
had displeasure, on account of your words, and He sware 
that I should not go over Jordan, nor enter the good 
land which the Lord your God giveth you to inherit. 
For I must die in this land; Iam not to pass over the 
Jordan ; but you are to pass over, and inherit that good 
land. Take heed to yourselves, lest you forget the 
covenant of the Lord your God, which He hath con- 
cluded with you, and you make an image for you, the 
likeness of anything about which the Lord thy God 
hath commanded thee. For the Word of the Lord thy 
God is a consuming fire: He is a jealous God. 

When thou shalt have begotten sons and daughters, 
and have grown old in the land, and thou become 
corrupt, and make an image, the likeness of anything, 
or do what is evil before the Lord thy God, to cause 
displeasure before Him; I call, this day, the heavens 
and earth to witness that you will surely perish from off 
the land whither you go over the Jordan to possess it: 
you will not prolong days upon it, for with destruction 
you will be destroyed. And the Lord will scatter you 
among the nations, and you will remain a numbered 
people} among the nations whither the Lord shall lead 
you. And there will you serve the peoples who are 
worshippers of idols, the work of men’s hands, wood 
and stone, which see not, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell. 


1 Am deminyan, “a people of (small) number.” (?) Heb. text, mzthe 
mispar, “men of number.” Peschito Syriac, 20701 be-menyono, “ small 


in number.” 


לצ 


484 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


Yet if from thence thou seek the fear of the Lord 
thy God, thou shalt find, if thou seek for Him with thy 
heart, and with all thy soul. When thou wilt be in 
trouble, and all these words will have found thee, in 
the end of the days, and thou wilt turn unto the fear 
of the Lord thy God, and be obedient to His Word, 
because the Lord thy God is a merciful God; He will 
not forsake thee, nor destroy thee, nor forget the cove- 
nant of thy fathers which He sware unto them. For 
ask now of the ancient days that have been before thee, 
from the day that the Lord created man upon the earth, 
and (ask) from one end of the heavens to the other, if 
there hath been so great a thing as this, or any heard 
like it, whether a people have heard the voice of the 
Word of the Lord speaking from the midst of the fire 
as thou didst hear, and have lived. Or (if any have 
seen) like miracles which the Lord hath wrought, 
in being revealed to redeem to Himself a people from 
among a people, by miracles, sigus, and wonders, 
and with war, and by a mighty hand and uplifted 
arm, and by grand visions, according to all that the 
Lord your God hath done for you in Mizraim before 
your eyes. Unto thee hath it been shown, that thou 
mayest know that the Lord He is God, there is none 
beside Him. From the heavens thou didst hear the 
voice of His Word, that He might teach thee, and upon 
earth He showed thee 1118 great fire, and thou heardest 
Ilis words from the midst of the fire. And because He 
loved thy fathers, and had pleasure in their children 
after them, He brought thee out by His Word, by His 
mighty power, from Mizraim, to drive out nations greater 
and stronger than thou from before thee, to bring thee 
in, to give thee their land to inherit, as at this day. 

Know then, this day, and revolve it in thy heart, 
that the Lord He is God, whose glory is in the heavens 


v.] ON DEUTERONOMY, 485 


above, and who ruleth upon the earth beneath, (and 
that) there is none but He; and keep His statutes and 
His commandments that I teach thee this day, that it 
may be well with thee, and thy sons after thee, and thou 
mayest prolong days on the land which the Lord thy 
God giveth thee, all the days. 

Then Mosheh separated three cities on the other side 
of the Jordan (toward) the sunrise, that the slayer may 
escape thither who may kill his neighbour unawares, 
not having hated him yesterday, or before it; and that, 
escaping to one of those cities, he may live :—Bezer, in 
the wilderness, in the plain land of the tribe of Reuben; 
Ramoth, in Gilead, of the tribe Gad; and Golan, in 
Mathnan, of the tribe 01 Menasheh. 

And this is the law which Mosheh set in order 
before the children of Israel: these are the testimonies, 
statutes, and judgments, which Mosheh spake to the 
children of Israel, on their coming forth from Mizraim ; 
on the other side of Jordan, in the vale over against 
Beth Peor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amoraah, 
who dwelt in Heshbon, whom Mosheh and the children 
of Israel smote when they had.come out of Mizraim. And 
they took possession of his land, and the land of Og 
king of Mathnan, two kings of the Amoraah, who were 
beyond Jordan, toward the sunrise; from Aroer, upon 
the bank of the river Arnon to the mountain of Siaon, 
which is Hermon; and all the plain beyond Jordan 
eastward unto the sea of the plain at the declivity of the 
heights. 

V. And Mosheh called all Israel, and said to them : 
Listen, Israel, to the statutes and judgments which 1 
speak before you this day, and learn them, and keep 
them to do them. The Lord our God confirmed a 
covenant with us at Horeb. The Lord confirmed not 
this covenant with our fathers, but with us who are 


486 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


here all of us living this day: word with word hath the 
Lord spoken with you at the mountain from the midst 
of the fire, (I stood between the Word of the Lord 
and you, to announce to you at that time the word 
of the Lord; for you were afraid in presence of the 
fire, and went not up to the mountain,) saying: I 
am the Lord thy God, who hath brought thee out of 
the land of Mizraim, from the house of bondage ; there 
shall not be with thee another god beside Me. Thou 
shalt not make to thee an image or any likeness of that 
which is in the heavens above, or on the earth below, or 
in the waters under the earth; thou shalt not worship 
them or serve them: for I, the Lord thy God, am a 
jealous God, visiting the guilt of fathers upon rebellious 
children, upon the third generation and upon the fourth 
of them that hate Me, when the children complete the 
sins of their fathers; but doing good unto (thousands 
of) generations of those who love Me, and keep My 
commandments. Thou shalt not swear by the Name 
of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will 
not acquit him who shall swear by His Name falsely. 
Keep the day 0] Shabbatha to sanctify it, as the Lord 
thy God hath commanded thee. Six days thou shalt 
work, and do all thy labour; but the seventh day is the 
Sabbath before the Lord thy God: thou shalt not per- 
form any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, 
thy servant, thy handmaid, thy ox, thy ass, nor any of 
thy cattle, nor thy sojourner who is in thy gates; that 
thy servant and handmaid may rest as well as thou. 
And remember that thou wast a servant in the land of 
Mizraim, and that the Lord brought thee out from 
thence with a mighty hand and uplifted arm ; therefore 
the Lord thy God hath commanded thee to observe the 
Sabbath day. Honour thy fatler and mother, as the 
Lord hath commanded, that thou mayest prolong thy 


v.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 487 


days, and it may be well with thee in the land which 
the Lord thy God shall give thee. Thou shalt not kill 
life, nor commit adultery, nor steal, nor bear false 
witness against thy neighbour. Nor shalt thou desire 
thy neighbour’s wife, nor covet thy neighbour’s house, 
his field, or his servant, or his handmaid, his ox, or his 
ass, or any thing that is thy neighbour’s. 

These words spake the Lord with all your congre- 
gation at the mount, from the midst of the fire, the 
clouds and the darkness, with a great voice, and hath not 
ceased.? And He wrote them upon two tables of 
stone, and gave themto me. But it was, when you 
heard the voice from the midst of the fire and darkness, 
the mount burning with fire, all the chiefs of your tribes 
and your elders drew near to me; and you said, Behold, 
the Lord our God hath showed to us His glory and His 
greatness, and we have heard the voice of His Word out 
of the midst of the fire; this day have we seen that the 
Lord speaketh with a man,? and he liveth. But now 
why should we die? For this great fire will consume 
us: if we go on to hear the voice of the Word of the 
Lord our God, we shall die. For who is there of all 
flesh who can hear the voice of the Word of the Living 
God speaking from the midst of fire (in the manner) 
that we have, and can live? Go thou near, and hear all 
that the Lord our God shall say, and speak thou with us 
all that the Lord our God shall speak with thee, and we 
will hearken and will do. And the voice of your words 
was heard before the Lord when you spake with me, and 
the Lord said to me, The voice of the words of this 
people which they have spoken with thee is heard before 
Me; all (the words) they have spoken are right. O that 


2 Pesch. Syriac, “a great voice which hath no limit.” Hebrew text 
“and He added not.” 
3 7. e., Moses: vide the Palestine, 25 0. 


488 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHar. 


they may have such a heart t» fear Me and keep all My 
commandments all days, that it may be well with them 
and their children for ever. Go, and say to them, 
Return to your tents. But thou, stand here before Me, 
and I will tell thee all the commandments, the statutes, 
and the judgments, which thou shalt teach them, that 
they may do them in the land that I will give them to 
possess it. 

And you shall observe to do as the Lord your God 
hath commanded you, nor deeline to the right hand or 
to the left. In all the way which the Lord your God 
hath commanded you shal! ye walk, that you may live, 
and it may be well with you, and you may lengthen out 
your days in the land which you are to inherit. 

VI. And this is the commandment, (these are) the 
statutes and the judgments, which the Lord your God 
hath commanded (me) to teach you to perform in the 
land to which you go over to possess it, that thou 
mayest fear before the Lord thy God, and keep all His 
statutes and His commandments which I command thee ; 
thou, thy sons, and thy sons’ son, all the days of thy 
life, that thy days may be prolonged. And thou, Israel, 
shalt receive, and keep, and perform, that it may be 
well with thee, and thou mayest increase greatly, as the 
Lord God of thy fathers hath said to thee, (in) the land 
which produceth milk and honey. 

Hear, 15491 ;* tHe Lorp our Gop 1s One 1022 : 
and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, 
and with all thy soul, and with all thy substance. And 
these words that 1 command thee this day shall be upon 
thy heart. And thou shalt deliver them to thy children, 
and talk of them when thou art sitting in thy house, and 


“ Verses 4-9 form the first part of what in the Hebrew liturgy is 
called the Shema (“Hear”). The other parts are Deut. xi. 13-21, and 
Num. xv. 37-41. 


v1. ON DEUTERONOMY. 489 


when thou goest in the way, and in thy lying down, and 
thy msing up. And thou shalt bind them for a sign 
upon thy hand, and they shall be for tephillin® between 
thine eyes; and thou shalt write them upon the door- 
pests, and affix them to the lintels® of thy house, and 
upon thy gates. 

And it shall be, when the Lord thy God will have 
brought thee into the land which He covenanted to thy 
fathers, to Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, to give thee 
great and goodly cities which thou bnildedst not, and 
houses full of goods that thou didst not fill, and cisterns 
hewn which thou hewedst not, vineyards and olive trees 
which thou didst not plant, and thou have eaten and be 
full; beware, lest thou forget the fear of the Lord who 
brought thee out from the land of Mizraim, from the 
house of bondage. Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God, 
aud serve before Him, and swear by His Name. You 
shall not go after the idols of the Gentiles, the idols of 
the peoples who surround you, (for the Lord thy God 
is a jealous God, His Shekinah dwelleth in the midst of 
thee,) lest the anger of the Lord thy God be kindled 
against thee, and He destroy thee from off the face of 
the earth. You shall not tempt the Lord your God as 
you tempted Him in the temptation: keeping you shall 
keep the commandments of the Lord your God, His 
testimonies, and His statutes He hath commanded thee, 
and do what is right and well ordered before the Lord, 
that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest enter in 
and possess the good land which the Lord sware unto 
thy fathers to break 811 thy enemies before thee, as He 
hath said. 

When thy son shall ask thee in time to come, (mekar, 
to-morrow,) saying, What are the testimonies, statutes, 

5 Heb., cotaphoth. LXX., acdaeuta. New Test., pvdaxrnpia, 

6 Or, “in the ends,’ —desiphey. \ 

5 צ 


490 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


and judgments, which the Lord our God hath com- 
manded you? then thou shalt say, We were servants 
to Pharoh in Mizraim; and the Lord brought us out of 
Mizraim with a mighty hand, and put forth miracles 
great and sore upon Pharoh, and all the men of his 
house, before our eyes; and He brought us out from 
thence, to bring us in, to give us the land which He 
sware to our fathers. And the Lord commanded us to 
perform all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God, that 
all days it may be well with us, (and) that He may 
preserve us alive as at this day. And it shall be our 
righteousness to observe to do all these commandments 
before the Lord our God, as He hath commanded us. 
VII. When the Lord thy God shall bring thee into 
the land into which thou goest to possess it, and cast 
out many peoples from before thee, the Hittites, 
Girgashites, Amorites, Kenaanites, Pherizites, Hivites, 
and Jebusites, seven nations, greater and mightier than 
thou, and shall deliver them up before thee ; then thou 
shalt smite and utterly consume them; thou shalt make 
no covenant with them, nor show mercy upon them. 
Neither shalt thou intermarry with them; thou shalt not 
give thy daughter to his son, nor take his daughter for 
thy son. Yor they will cause thy son to go astray from 
serving Me, and they will worship the idols of the Gen- 
tiles, and the anger of the Lord will be kindled against 
you, and He will destroy thee speedily. But thus shall 
you do to them: you shall pull down their altars, break 
their statues in pieces, cut down their (sacred) groves, 
and burn their images with fire. For thou art a people 
consecrated before the Lord thy God, thee hath the Lord 
thy God chosen to be to Him a people more beloved 
than all peoples upon the face of the earth. Not because 
you were greater than any of the peoples, hath the Lord 
chosen and befriended you, for you were smaller than 


vir. ] ON DEUTERONOMY. 491 


any of the peoples; but because the Lord had mercy on 
you, and that He would keep the covenant He sware to 
your fathers, hath the Lord brought you out with a 
mighty hand, and redeemed thee from the house of 
bondage, out of the hand of Pharoh, the king of 
Mizraim. Know, then, that the Lord thy God, He is 
God, a faithful God, keeping covenant and mercy for 
them who love Him and keep His commandments to a 
thousand generations, but repaying them who hate Him 
the good which they have done before Him in their lives, 
to destroy them (in the life to come?). He delayeth not 
to do good to His enemies for the good they may have 
wrought before Him in their lives, to repay them. 
Thou shalt therefore observe the commandments, sta- 
tutes, and judgments, which I command thee this day, to 
do them. 


SECTION XLVI. 
EKEB. 

Anp it shall be that because thou wilt have obeyed 
these judgments, and have observed and performed 
them, the Lord thy God will keep with thee the cove- 
nant and the mercy which He sware to thy fathers. 
And He will love thee, and bless thee, and multiply 
thee, and will bless the offspring of thy womb, the fruit 
of thy land, thy corn, wine, and oil, the herds of thy 
oxen, and the flocks of thy sheep, on the land which He 
sware to thy fathers to give thee. Blessed shalt thou 
be above all peoples; there shall not be among thee a 
barren male or a barren female, neither among thy 
cattle. And the Lord thy God will remove from thee 
all diseases, and all the plagues of Mizraim; the 
evil things that thou knowest He will not lay upon thee, 


492 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


but will pat them on all that hate thee. And thou shalt 
consume all the peoples that the Lord thy God will give 
up to thee; thine eye shall not have pity upon them, 
nor shalt thou serve their idols, for that will be a 
stumbling-block to thee. 

If thou say in thy heart, These nations are greater 
than lam: how can I drive them out? thou shalt not 
be afraid of them; remembering thou shalt remember 
what the Lord thy God did to Pharoh and all Mizraim ; 
the great miracles which thine eye beheld, and the signs 
and wonders, the mighty hand and uplifted arm, by 
which the Lord thy God led thee forth; so shall the 
Lord thy God do to all the nations before whom thou 
art afraid. And moreover, the Lord thy God will stir 
up the hornet among them, until they who remain and 
who hid themselves from before thee have perished. 
Thou shalt not be broken down before them; for the 
Lord thy God dwelleth in the midst of thee, the Great 
and fearful God. And the Lord thy God will put away 
those nations before thee by little and little; for 
thou mayest not consume them instantly, lest the wild 
beast of the field multiply against thee. Yet will the 
Lord thy God deliver them up before thee, and destroy 
them with a great destruction, till they be consumed ; 
and He will deliver their kings into thy hand, and 
destroy their names from under the heavens, and not a 
man will stand before thee till thou wilt have destroyed 
them. The images of their idols thou shalt burn with 
fire; thou shalt not desire the silver or the gold upon 
them, nor take (it) to thyself, lest thou offend through 
it, for it is an abomination before the Lord thy God. 
Nor shalt thou bring what is abominable into thy house, 
and thou be accursed as that is; but with loathing thou 


shalt loathe it, and with abhorrence abhor it, for it isa 
thing accursed. 


VIII. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 493 


VIII. Every mandate that I command thee this day, 
you shall observe to do, that you may live and multiply, 
and go in and possess the land which the Lord did 
covenaut unto your fathers. And thou shalt remember 
all the way that the Lord thy God hath led thee these 
forty years in the wilderness, that He might humble 
thee, to prove thee, to know what was in thy heart, 
whether thou wouldst keep His commandments or not: 
and He humbled (or afflicted) thee, and let thee hunger, 
and fed thee with the manna which thou knewest not, 
nor did thy fathers know ; that He might make thee to 
know, That not by bread only is man sustained, but by 
every forth-coming word from before the Lord shall man 
live. Thy raiment faded not away from thee, and thy 
shoes wore not out these forty years; and know thou 
with thy heart, that as a man instructeth his son, (so) 
the Lord thy God instructeth thee. Keep then the com- 
mandments of the Lord thy God, to walk in the ways 
which are right before Him, to fear Him for the Lord 
thy God bringeth thee into the good tand; a land 
streaming with brooks of water, with fountain-springs, 
and depths (of water) gushing from valleys and hills; a 
land of wheat and barley, vines, figs, and pomegranates ; 
a land of olives yielding oil, and which produceth 
honey; a land where, without poverty, thou mayest eat 
bread, and have want of nothing; a land whose stones 
are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest cast brass: 
and thou shalt eat and be satisfied, and shalt bless the 
Lord thy God in the good land. 

Beware, lest thou forget the fear of the Lord thy God, 
in not keeping His commandments, His judgments, 
and His statutes, which Icommand thee this day. Lest, 
when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly 
houses and inhabited (them), and when thy oxen and 
sheep have multiplied to thee, and silver and gold have 


494 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cuap. 


increased, and whatever thou hast is increased with thee, 
thy heart should be lifted up, and thou shouldest forget 
the fear of the Lord thy God, who brought thee up 
from the land of Mizraim, from the house of bondage; 
who led thee through the great and terrible desert, the 
place of burning serpents and scorpions, the place of 
thirsting, where there is no water, who brought out 
water for thee from the hard rock ; who fed thee in the 
wilderness with manna which thy fathers knew not, that 
he might humble thee, and prove thee, to do thee good 
in thy latter end. And (lest) thou say in thy heart, My 
power and the might of my hand have gathered to me 
these possessions : but remember the Lord thy God, for 
He it is who giveth thee power to acquire riches, that 
He tay confirm his covenant which He sware to thy 
fathers, as at this day. 

But it will be that if thou forget the fear of the Lord 
thy God, and walk after the idols of the Gentiles to serve 
and worship them,—I testify against you this day that 
perishing you will perish. As the nations which the 
Lord destroyeth from before you, so shall you perish, 
because you would not obey the Word of the Lord 
your God. 

TX. Hear, Israel: thou art this day (about) to pass 
over the Jordana, to enter, to drive out nations greater 
and stronger than thou, and (to take possession of) cities, 
great and fortified to the height of heaven; a people 
great and mighty, the sons of the giants whom thou 
knowest, and (of whom) thou hast heard (it said), Who 
can stand before the sons of the giants? But know this 
day that the Word of the Lord thy God, He it is who 
goeth over before thee, He who is a burning fire, He will 
consume them, He will break them down before thee, 
and thou wilt soon drive them out, as the Lord hath 
told thee. Thou shalt not (therefore) speak in thy 


1x.] ON DEUTERONOWY. 495 


heart when the Lord thy God hath broken them before 
thee, saying: For the sake of my righteousness hath 
the Lord brought me in to inhent this land; but for 
the wickedness of these nations the Lord driveth them 
out before thee. Not for thy righteousness or the 
integrity of thy heart dost thou go in to possess their 
land, but for the guilt of these nations the Lord thy 
God doth drive them out before thee, aud that He may 
confirm the word which he sware to thy fathers, to 
Abraham, to Izhak, and to Jakob. Know, then, that 
not for thy righteousness will the Lord thy God give 
thee this good land to possess it, for thou art a hard- 
necked people. Be mindful, and forget not that thou 
didst provoke the Lord thy God to wrath in the wilder- 
ness ; from the day that thou camest out from the land of 
Mizraim until thou hast come to this place, ye have been 
rebellious before the Lord. And in Horeb (itself) you 
provoked the Lord, and aroused the Lord’s anger to 
destroy you. When I had gone up to the mountain to 
receive the tables of the stones, the tables of the cove- 
nant which the Lord had made with you, and I abode 
in the mount forty days and forty nights—I ate no 
bread, I drank no water—And the Lord gave to me 
the two tables of stones, written upon by the finger of 
the Lord, according to all the words which the Lord had 
spoken with you on the mount from the midst of the 
fire, on the day of the convocation. It was at the end 
of forty days and nights, when the Lord gave to me the 
two tables of the stones, the tables of the covenant, that 
the Lord said to me, Arise, go down quickly from hence ; 
for thy people whom I brought out from Mizraim are 
corrupted ; they have soon turned from the way that I 
commanded them, and have made them a molten image. 
And the Lord spake to me, saying: This people are dis- 
closed before me, and, behold, it is a hard-necked people, 


496 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cuap. 


Cease from thy prayer before me, and I will destroy 
them, and blot out their name from under the heavens, 
and I will make thee for a people stronger and greater 
than they. 

And I turned and descended from the mount; and 
the mountain burned with fire, and the two tables of the 
covenant were upon my two hands. And 1 looked, and, 
behold, you had sinned before the Lord your God; you 
had made you a molten calf; you had turned quickly 
from the way which the Lord had commanded you. 
And 1 took the two tables, and cast them away from 
my two hands, and brake them before your eves. And I 
fell down before the Lord as at the first, forty days and 
forty nights, bread 1 ate not, water I drank not, for all 
your sins which you sinned to do evil before the Lord, 
to provoke to anger before Him; for I was afraid before 
the anger and indignation wherewith the Lord was 
angry against you to destroy you; but the Lord 
hearkened to my prayer on that day also. And against 
Aharon was there great displeasure before the Lord to 
destroy him; but I prayed for Aharon also at that time. 

And your sin which you had made, the calf, I took 
and burned it in fire, and ground it to a fine grinding 
till it was small as powder, and I threw the dust of it 
into the stream that descended from the mount. 

And at the Burning, and at the Temptation, and at 
the Graves of Desire, you were rebellious before the 
Lord; and when the Lord sent you from Rekem Giah, 
saying: Go up and possess the land I have given, then 
rebelled you against the decree of the Word of the Lord 
your God, and would not believe Him, nor be obedient 
to His Word. You have been contumacious before the 
Lord from the day that I have known you; but 1 
down before the Lord the forty days and the forty 
nights that I was prostrate, for the Lord had spoken to 


x.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 497 


consume you. And I prayed before the Lord, and 
said: O Lord God, destroy not Thy people, and Thine 
inheritance, which Thou hast redeemed by Thy power, 
and brought out from Mizraim with a mighty hand. 
Remember Thy servants Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob ; 
regard uot the stubbornness of this people, nor their 
wickedness, nor their sin: lest the inhabitants of the 
land from whence Thou hast led us should say: Because 
there was no power before the Lord to bring them into 
the land which He had told them of, or because He 
hated them, He led them forth to kill them in the 
wilderness. But they are Thy people, and Thy inheri- 
tance, which thou hast led forth with Thy great power 
and Thy uplifted arm. 

X. At that time the Lord said to me: Hew thee two 
tables of stones like the first, and come up before Me 
on the mount, and make thee an ark of wood; and 1 
will write upon the tables the words that were upon the 
former tables which thou brakest, and thou shalt put 
them into the ark. And I made an ark of sittin wood, 
and hewed two tables of stones like the former, and 
went up to the mountain, and the two tables were in 
my hand; and He wrote upon the tables according to 
the former writing, the Ten Words which the Lord 
spake with you on the mount from the midst of the fire 
on the day of the assembly; and the Lord gave them to 
me. And I returned and descended from the mount, 
and put the tables into the ark which I had made, and 
they are there, as the Lord commanded me. 

And the children of Israel went forward from Bearith 
of the Beni Jaakan unto Moserah ; there Aharon died, 
and was buried there, and Elazar his son hath minis- 
tered in his stead. From thence they journeyed unto 
Gudgod, and from Gudgod unto Jatbath, a land flowing - 
with streams of water. 


498 TARGUM OF ONKELOS (CHAP. 


At that time the Lord had set apart the tribe of 
Levi, to bear the ark of the Lord’s covenant, to stand 
before the Lord to minister unto Him, and to bless in 
His Name, unto this day. Wherefore, Levi hath no 
portion or inheritance with his brethren; the gifts which 
the Lord shall give him are his inheritance, as the Lord 
thy God hath told him. And I stood on the mountain 
as in the former days, forty days and nights; and the 
Lord received my prayer at that time also, that He 
would not destroy thee. And the Lord said to me: 
Arise, go, to proceed before the people, that they may be 
brought in to possess the land which I sware unto their 
fathers to give them. 

And now, Israel, what doth the Lord thy God require 
of thee, but to fear before the Lord thy God, to walk in 
all the ways that are night before Him, and to love 
Him, and to serve before the Lord thy God with all thy 
heart, and with all thy soul; to keep the command- 
ments of the Lord, and His statutes which I command 
thee this day, that it may be well with thee? Behold, 
the heavens, the heavens of the heavens, are the Lord’s 
thy God, and all that is therein; only the Lord did 
choose thy fathers to love them, and He hath taken 
pleasure in their children after them, even in you, above 
all people, as at this day. Put away, therefore, the 
foolishness of your hearts, and harden your neck no 
more; for the Lord your God is the God of judges, 
and the Lord of kings, the Great God, mighty and 
terrible, before whom is no respect of persons, nor doth 
He accept a reward.® He executeth judgment for the 
orphan and the widow, and hath pity on the stranger to 
give him food and raiment. Be loving then to the 
stranger, for you were sojourners in the land of Mizraim. 
Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God, and serve before 


5 Sam. Vers., " money.” 


x1.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 499 


Him ; to His fear thou shalt keep close, and shalt swear 
by His Name; He is thy glory, and He is thy God, who 
hath done for thee these vast and mighty acts which thy 
eves have seen. With seventy souls went thy fathers 
down into Mizraim, and now the Lord thy God hath set 
thee as the stars of the heavens for multitude. 

XI. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God, and 
keeping keep His word, His statutes, His judgments, 
and His commandments all days. And you know this 
day what your children have not known or seen, the 
discipline of the Lord your God, His greatness, His 
mighty hand and uplifted arm, His miracles, and His 
works which He did in Mizraim, to Pharoh king of 
Mizraim, and to all his land; and what He did to the 
host of the Mizraee, to their horses and their chariots, 
when he made the waters of the Sea of Suph to over- 
flow their faces as they followed after you, and the Lord 
destroyed them unto this day; and what He did to you 
in the wilderness until your coming unto this place; 
and what He did unto Dathan and Abiram, the sons of 
Eliab bar Reuben, when the earth opened her mouth, 
and swallowed them up with the men of their house, 
their tents, and all the substance they had, in the midst 
of all Israel; for your eyes have seen all the great acts 
of the Lord which He hath wrought. 

You shall observe all the precepts which I command 
thee this day, that you may be strengthened, and go in 
and possess the land unto which you are going over to 
inherit, and may prolong your days upon the land which 
the Lord sware to your fathers to give them and their 
children, a land producing milk and honey; for the 
land into which thou art going to possess it, is not as 
the land of Mizraim from which thou hast come out, 
where thou sowedst thy seed, and didst water it with thy- 
feet as a garden of herbs (or a green garden); but the 


500 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHap. 


land to which thou goest over to possess is a land of 
hills and valleys, drinking water of the rains of heaven ; 
a land which the Lord thy God looketh after; (inquireth 
for ;( the eyes’ of the Lord thy God are evermore upon 
it, from the beginning unto the end of the year. 

And it shall be, if you will be diligently obedient to 
My commandments which I command you this day to 
love the Lord your God, and to serve before Him with all 
your heart, and with all your soul, I will give you the 
rain of your land in its season, the early and the latter ; 
and thou shalt gather in thy corn, thy wine, and thy oil; 
and I will give herbage in thy field for thy cattle, and 
thou shalt eat and be satisfied. 

Take heed to yourselves lest your heart be deceived, 
and you turn aside to serve the gods of the Gentiles and 
worship them; and the anger of the Lord be aroused 
against you, and He shut up the skies that there be no 
rain, and the earth yield not her fruit, and you perish 
soon from off the good land which the Lord will give 
you: but lay these my words upon your heart, and 
upon your soul, and bind them for a sign upon your 
hand, and let them be for tephillin between your eyes; 
and teach them to your children, speaking of them 
when thou sittest in thy house, and when thou walkest 
in the way, when thou liest down, and when thou 
risest up ; and write them upon the posts, and fix them 
to the entrance of thy house, and upon thy gates; ® that 
your days and the days of your children may be multi- 
plied on the land which the Lord sware unto your 
fathers to give them, as the days of heaven upon the 
earth. 

For if you surely keep all this precept that I com- 
mand you to perform it, to love the Lord your God, to 


7 Sam. Vers., “ the favourable eye.” 
5 Sam. Vers., “ thy cities.” 


St. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 501 


walk in all the ways that are right before Him, and 
keep close unto His fear, then will the Lord drive out 
all these nations from before you, that you may possess 
(the lands) of nations greater and stronger than your- 
selves. Every place on which the sole of your foot 
shall tread shall be yours, from the wilderness and 
Lebanon, from the river, the river Phrat, unto the utter- 
most sea shall be your border. There shall not a man 
stand before you; for the Lord your God will put the 
fear and dread of you upon the face of all the land that 
you tread upon, as the Lord hath said unto you. 


SECTION XLVIL. 
REEH. 


Brenorp, I set before you this day blessings and 
curses : blessings, if you obey the precepts of the Lord 
your God, which I command you this day; but curses, 
if you obey not the precepts of the Lord your God, and 
turn aside from the way that I teach you this day, to 
go after the idols of the peoples whom you have not 
known. And it shall be, when the Lord your God 
hath brought thee into the land which thou goest to 
possess, thou shalt set the blessings upon the Mount of 
Gerizim, and the curses upon the Mountain of 41 
Are they not beyond Jordan, after the way of the sun- 
setting, in the land of the Kenaanites, which dwell in 
the plains over against Gilgala, by the side of the plain 
of Moreh ?® For you are to pass over the Jordan to 
enter in to inherit the land which the Lord your God 
will give you; and you will possess, and dwell therein. 


5 Sam, Vers., “the Valley of Vision.” 


502 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


And you shall observe-to do all the statutes and judg- 
ments which I have set before you this day. 

XII. These are the commandments and judgments 
you shall observe to do in the land that the Lord the 
God of your fathers will give to thee to inherit all the 
days that you subsist upon the earth. You shall 
destroying destroy all the places wherein the peoples 
{whose lands) you will inherit have served their idols, 
upon the high mountains, and the hills, and under 
every leafy tree. And you shall lay their altars in 
ruin, break their statues,’ burn their groves with fire, 
cut the images of their idols in pieces, and blot out 
their names from that place. 

Not so shall you do before the Lord your God ; but, 
to the place which the Lord your God will choose that 
His Shekinah may dwell there, unto the house of His 
Shekinah you shall seek, and thither come to offer 
there your burnt offerings, your consecrated victims, 
your tenths, and the separations of your hands, your 
vows and freewill gifts, and the firstlings of your oxen 
and sheep. And there shall you eat before the Lord 
your God, and rejoice in all that you have set your 
hand unto, you and your households, for that the Lord 
thy God hath blessed thee. You shall not (then) do as 
we are doing here this day, every man as (seemeth) 
proper in his own eyes; for you are not come as yet to 
the place of quietness, and to the inheritance which the 
Lord thy God will give thee. But (when) you go over 
the Jordan, and dwell in the land which the Lord your 
God giveth you to inherit, and He hath given you rest 
from all your enemies round about, and you dwell in 
safety, then there will be a Place which the Lord your 
God will choose, to make His Shekinah to dwell there; 
thither shall you bring all that I command you, your 


1 Or, “ columns.” 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 503‏ [.צזצ 


burnt offerings and consecrated oblations, your tenths 
and the separations of your hands, and all the goodly 
things of your vows which you may vow before the 
Lord. Aud you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, 
you and your sons and daughters, your servants and 
handmaids, and the Levite who is among you, for he 
hath no part or inheritance with you. 

Take heed to thyself that thou offer not thy burnt 
offerings in every place that thou seest; but in the 
Place which the Lord will choose out of one of thy 
tribes thou shalt offer thy sacrifices, aud there do all 
that 1 command thee. Though in any place where thy 
soul may desire thou mayest kill and eat flesh, accord- 
ing to the blessing of the Lord thy God, which He will 
give thee in all thy cities; the unclean and the clean 
may eat thereof, as the flesh of the gazelle and the deer. 
Only of blood you may not eat; thou shalt pour it upon 
the ground like water. It is not lawful for thee to eat 
in thy cities of the tythe of the procuce of thy wine or 
oil, or the firstlings of thy bullocks or thy sheep, or of 
any vow which thou hast devoted, or of thy freewill 
offerings, or separations of thy hands; but before the 
Lord thy God shalt thou eat it, in the place which the 
Lord thy God will choose; thou and thy son and 
daughter, thy servant and handmaid, and the Levite 
who is in thy cities; and you shall rejoice before the 
Lord thy God in all that thou settest thy hand unto. 
Take heed to thee that thou forsake not the Levite all 
thy days upon thy land. 

When the Lord thy God shall have enlarged thy 
border, as He hath said to thee, and thou sayest, I will 
eat flesh, when thy soul desireth to eat flesh, of all the 
desire of thy soul thou mayest eat flesh. If the place 
which the Lord thy God will choose for His Shekinah 
to dwell there, be too far from thee, thou mayest kill of 


504 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


thy oxen and sheep which the Lord will give thee, as 1 
have commanded thee, and eat in thy cities of all the 
desire of thy soul. As the flesh of the gazelle and the 
deer so shalt thou eat it, the unclean and the clean may 
cat it alike. Only, be steadfast in not eating the blood, 
for blood is life, and thou mayest not eat the life with 
the flesh: thou shalt not eat it; thou shalt pour it like 
water upon the ground; thou shalt not eat it,—that + 
may be well with thee aud with thy children after thee, 
when thou doest that which is right before the Lord. 
Only thy consecrated things which thou hast, and thy 
vows, thou shalt take and bring to the place that the 
Lord will choose; and make thy burnt sacrifices, the 
flesh and the blood, upon the altar of the Lord thy God ; 
and the blood of thy consecrated victims thou shalt 
pour out at the altar of the Lord thy God, but of the 
flesh thou mayest eat. Observe and obey all these 
commandments which I command thee, that it may go 
well with thee, and with thy children after thee for ever, 
when thou doest that which is meet and right before 
the Lord thy God. 

When the Lord thy God shall have destrcyed the 
nations (of the land) whither thou art going to cast 
them out from before thee, and He cast them out, and 
thou dwell in their land,—take heed to thyself that 
thou stumble not after them when they shail have been 
dispersed before thee, and that thou seek not to their 
idols, saying, How did these nations serve their idols? 
for so will I do also. Thou shalt not do so before the 
Lord thy God; for all that is abominable before the 
Lord, and that He hateth, have they done to their 
idols. For even their sons and daughters they have 
burned in the fire. Every word I command you, that 
shall you observe to perform; you shall not add to it 
nor diminish from 6. 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 505‏ [.צזנצ 


XIII. If there shall arise among you a prophet, or a 
dreamer of dreams, and he give a sign or a wonder, and 
the sign or wonder cometh to pass, (yet,) should he 
speak with thee, saying, Let us go after the gods of the 
Gentiles whom thou hast not known, and let us wor- 
ship them ; thou shalt not hearken to the words of that 
prophet or dreamer of dreams; for the Lord your God 
is proving you, to know whether you will love the Lord 
your God with all your heart and with all your soul. 
You shall walk after the Lord your God; Him shall ye 
fear, and keep His commandments, and be obedient to 
His Word, and serve Him, and keep close to His fear. 
And that prophet, or dreamer of dreams, shall be put 
to death; for he hath spoken perversions against the 
Lord your God, who brought you out from the land of 
Mizraim, and delivered you from the house of bondage, 
to make you go astray from the path in which the Lord 
thy God hath commanded thee to walk; and so shalt 
thou put away the evil doer from the midst of thee. 

If thy brother, the son of thy mother, or thy son, or 
thy daughter, or the wife of thy covenant,” or thy friend 
who is as thy soul, shall persuade thee in secret, saying : 
Let us go and worship the gods of the Gentiles whom 
thou hast not known, nor thy fathers, gods of the 
nations round about you, nigh thee, or far off, from one 
end of the earth to the other ; thou shalt not consent to 
him, nor listen to his word, nor must thy eye have pity 
on him; thou shalt neither compassionate nor conceal 
him, but killing thou shalt kill him; thy hand shall be 
upon him the first to kill him, and afterwards the hand 
of all the people ; and thou shalt stone him with stones 
that he die, because he sought to lead thee astray from 
the fear of the Lord thy God who brought thee out of 
the land of Mizraim, from the house of bondage; and 


2 Sam, Vers., “of thy love.” 
¥ 


506 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


all Israel will hear and be afraid, and not add to do this 
evil thing among thee. 

Tf thou hear in one of the cities which the Lord thy 
God will give thee to dwell in, saying: Men, sons of 
wickedness, have gone forth from among thee, and led 
away the inhabitants of their city, saying: Let us go 
and worship the gods of the nations which you have not 
known; then shalt thou seek and search out, and fairly 
inquire; and, behold, such a thing is the truth, and this 
abomination is being done among thee, thou shalt smite 
the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, 
and destroy it and all that is therein and its cattle by 
the edge of the sword; and thou shalt gather all the 
spoil of it together into the midst of its street, and burn 
the city and the whole spoil thereof with fire entirely 
before the Lord thy God, and it shall be a desolate heap 
for ever, it shall be builded no more; and nought of the 
accursed thing shall cleave to thy hand, that the Lord 
may turn away His anger from thee, and show mercy 
upon thee, and be loving towards thee, and increase 
thee, as He sware unto thy fathers; when thou shalt be 
obedient to the Word of the Lord thy God, to observe 
all His commandments which I command thee this day, 
to do that which is right before the Lord thy God. 

XIV. Children are you before the Lord your God. 
You shall not lacerate yourselves, nor make baldness 
between your eyes for the dead ; for thou art (to be) a 
holy people before the Lord thy God, chosen to be unto 
Him a people more beloved than all the nations upon 
the face of the earth. Thou shalt not eat any thing that 
is abominable. These are the cattle that you may eat : 
oxen, lambs of the flock, and kids of the goats. The 
hart, and the antelope, the forest deer, and the wild goat, 
the pygarg, the buffalo, and the chamois; and any 
animal that hath the hoof cloven, and that divideth the 


xIv.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 507 


hoof into two parts, and ruminateth the cud, among 
cattle, that you may eat. Nevertheless, you shall not 
eat of those that (only) chew the cud, or of them that 
(only) separate the hoof into divided parts: the camel, 
the hare, and the coney, for they bring up the cud, but 
divide not the hoof, they are unclean to you; and the 
swine, because it divideth the hoof, but doth not rumi- 
nate, shall be unclean to you; of their flesh you may not 
eat, nor touch their carcases. 

Of all that are in the waters these you may eat: all 
that have fins and scales you may eat; but any (fish) 
that hath not fins and scales you may not eat; it is 
unclean to you. You may eat any clean bird; but of 
these you shall not eat: the eayle, ossifrage, osprey, 
gleed, vulture, and kite after his kind, and every raven 
after his kind; the owl, nightbird, gull, and hawk after 
his kind; the heron, swan, and stork, the cormorant, 
pelican, and owl; the. bittern and ibis after his kind; 
the lapwing and the bat: and no reptile may you eat 
whose flesh is unclean to you; but you may eat any 
fowl (or winged thing) that is clean. 

You shall not eat of any thing that dieth of itself: 
thou mayest give it to the uncircumcised stranger who 
is in thy city, and he may eat it; or thou mayest sell it 
to the outward people; for thou art to be a holy people 
to the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not eat flesh with the 
milk. 

Thou shalt tythe all the produce of thy seed, and all 
that thy field may bring forth from year to year; and be- 
fore the Lord thy God in the place which He will choose 
to make His Shekinah dwell there, thou shalt eat the tythe 
of thy corn, wine, and oil, and the firstlings of thy herd 
and flock, that thou mayest learn to fear before the Lord 
thy God all days. But if the way be too great for thee, 


so that thou art not able to bring it, if the way be too 
a9 


508 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


distant from the place which the Lord thy God may 
choose to make His Shekinah to dwell there, when the 
Lord thy God shall have blessed thee, then thou shalt 
put (change) it into silver, and bind the silver in thy 
hand, and go to the place which the Lord thy God will 
choose, and shalt give the silver for whatever thy soul 
may please, for oxen, sheep, wine, new or old, or any 
thing thy soul may desire, and shalt eat there before 
the Lord thy God, and rejoice, thou, the men of thy 
house, and the Levite who is in thy cities; thou shalt 
not forsake him, for he hath no portion or inheritance 
with thee. 

At the end of three years thou shalt bring forth all 
the tithes of thy produce in that year, and lay it up in 
thy cities; and the Levite, because he hath no part or 
inheritance with thee, and the stranger, the orphan, and 
the widow who are in thy cities, shall come and eat and 
be satisfied, that the Lord thy God may bless thee in all 
the work of thy hand which thou shalt do. 

AY. At the end of seven years thou shalt make the 
Release,? and this is the sentence (word) of the Release : 
—That every man who is a creditor+* shall give release 
to him who oweth to his neighbour; he shall not exact 
it from his neighbour or his brother, because the release 
is proclaimed before the Lord. From a son of the 
Gentiles thou mayest demand; but that which is with 
thy brother, thou shalt release by thy hand. Save when 
there shall uot be the poor among thee, for the Lord in 
blessing will 0.088 thee in the land which the Lord thy 
God will give thee for a possession to inherit. Only if 
thou wilt indeed be obedient to the Word of the Lord 
thy God, and observe to do all these precepts which I 
command thee this day; for the Lord thy God doth 


3 Shemittha, “ remissio.” 
/ : 
Mari-rasho, “a lord or master of rent.” 


DEUTERONOMY. 309‏ אס [.טצ 


bless thee, as He hath said to thee: and thou shalt 
lend to many peoples, but thou shalt not take a loan; 
and thou shalt have rule over many peoples, but they 
shall not have rule over thee. 

If there be with thee a poor man of thy brethren, in 
one of the cities in the land which the Lord thy God 
will give thee, thou shalt not harden thy heart, nor 
shut up thy hand from thy poor brother; but thou shalt 
open thy hand to him, and lend, according to the mea- 
sure of his want, of that which he may need. Beware, 
lest there be a word with thy wicked heart, saying, The 
year of release draweth near, and thine eye be evil to- 
ward thy poor brother, and thou give not to him, and he 
cry against thee before the Lord, and there be guiltiness 
in thee. Giving thou shalt give to him, and thy heart 
shall not be evil when thou givest to him: because for 
this thing the Lord thy God will bless thee in all thy 
works, and in all thou puttest thy hand unto. For the 
poor will not cease (to be) in the midst of thy land; 
therefore I command thee, saying, Thou shalt verily 
open thy hand to thy brother, to thy afflicted, and to 
thy poor in thy land. 

If thy brother, a son of Israel, or a daughter of Israel, 
be sold to thee, and shall have served thee six years, in 
the seventh year let him go, a son of liberty, from thee. 
And when thou lettest him go free from thee, thou shalt 
not send him away empty. But thou shalt separate to 
him from thy flock, and thy floor, and thy wine-press, 
and give to him of that which the Lord thy God hath 
blessed thee. And thou shalt remember that thou wast 
a servant in the land of Mizraim, and the Lord thy God 
set thee free: therefore 1 command thee this thing 
to-day. 

But if he say to thee, 1 will not go out from being. 
with thee, because he loveth thee, and the men of thy 


510 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [ CHAP. 


house, (and) because it is good for me to be with thee, 
then thou shalt take an awl, put it through his ear, and 
into the door, and he shall be a ministering servant to 
thee evermore. And also likewise shalt thou do to thy 
handmaid. 

1% shall not be a hardship in thy eyes when thou dost 
send him from thee to be a son of freedom, for he hath 
been doubly worth a hireling, serving thee six years; and 
the Lord thy God will bless thee in all that thou shalt do. 

Every firstling male which cometh of thy cattle or 
thy sheep, thou shalt consecrate before the Lord thy 
God: thou shalt not work with the firstling of thy herd, 
nor shear the firstling of thy flock. Thou shalt eat it 
before the Lord thy God from year to year in the place 
which the Lord will choose, thou and the men of thy 
house. And if there be any blemish (spot) in it, (if 
it be) lame, or blind, or have any evil spot, thou shalt 
not sacrifice it before the Lord thy God: thou mayest 
eat it in thy cities, unclean (persons) and clean alike 
(may eat it), as the antelope and the hart. Only thou 
shalt not eat the blood, but pour it out upon the ground 
like water. 

XVI. Observe the month of Abiba, and perform the 
pascha before the Lord thy God; for in the month of 
Abiba the Lord thy God brought thee out of Mizraim, 
and wrought signs for thee in the night. And thou 
shalt sacrifice the pascha before the Lord thy God, with 
the lambs (young) of thy flock, and with consecrated 
victims from thy herd, in. the place which the Lord 
will choose to make His Shekinah dwell there. Thou 
shalt not eat leaven with it. Seven days shalt thou eat 
unleavened bread with it, the bread of humiliation; for 
in haste didst thou come out of the land of Mizraim: 
that thou mayest remember the day of thy coming from 
the land of Mizraim all the days of thy life. And there 


xvi] ON DEUTERONOMY. 511 


shall not be leaven seen with thee within all thy borders 
seven days; neither shall any of the flesh of that which 
thou didst sacrifice in the evening of the first day 
remain until the morning. Thou hast not liberty to 
sacrifice the pascha in any one of thy cities which the 
Lord thy God will give thee; but in the place which 
the Lord thy God will approve to make His Shekinah 
dwell, there thou shalt sacrifice the pascha, in the 
evening, at the going away of the sun; the time of thy 
coming out of Mizraim. And thou shalt dress and cat 
it in the place which the Lord thy God shall favour, 
and in the morning turn and go to thy tent. Six days 
thou shalt eat unleavened, and on the seventh day 
gather together before the Lord thy God: thou shalt do 
no work. 

Seven weeks number to thee from the beginning (of 
the harvest) ; when the omer of the elevation ל‎ is reaped 
with the sickle, shalt thou begin to number the seven 
weeks, And thou shalt perform the festival of the 
weeks before the Lord thy God, with a tribute of the 
free-will offering of thy hand, which thou shalt give as 
the Lord thy God will have blessed thee. And thou 
shalt rejoice before the Lord thy God, thou, thy son, 
thy daughter, thy man-servant, thy handmaid, the Levite 
who is in thy cities, the sojourner, the orphan, and the 
widow who are among you, in the place which the Lord 
thy God will choose to make His Shekinah to dwell 
there. And thou shalt remember that thou wast a 
servant in Mizraim, and keep and perform these statutes. 

The Feast of Tabernacles thou shalt make to thee 
seven days, when thou hast gathered in from thy thresh- 
ing-floor, and from thy wine-press. And thou shalt 
rejoice in thy feast, thou, thy son, thy daughter, thy 
servant, thy handmaid, the Levite, the stranger, the 


5 Glossary, page 57. 


512 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


orphan, and the widow, who are in thy cities. Seven 
days shalt thou hold the festival before the Lord thy 
God in the place the Lord shall choose, because the 
Lord thy God will have blessed thee in all thy produce, 
and in all the work of thy hands, and therefore shalt 
thou rejoice. 

Three times in the year all thy males are to appear 
before the Lord thy God in the place that He will 
choose; at the Feast of the Unleavened, the Feast of 
Weeks, and the Feast of Tabernacles; and they shall 
not appear before the Lord empty; but every man with 
the gift of his hand, according to the blessing of the 
Lord thy God which He hath given thee. 


SECTION XLVIII. 
SHOPHETIM. 


Jupces and officers 5 shalt thou appoint to thee in all 
thy cities which the Lord thy God will give thee 
throughout thy tribes, and they shall judge the people 
with true judgment. Thou shalt not pervert judgment, 
nor have respect to persons, nor receive a gift;7 fora 
gift blindeth the eyes of the wise, and depraveth right 
words. Thou shalt follow that which is surely true, 
that thou mayest live and inherit the land which the 
Lord thy God will give thee. Thou shalt not plant 
thee a grove, nor any tree beside the altar of the Lord 
thy God that thou makest thee, nor erect a statue which 
the Lord thy God abhorreth. 

XVII. Thou shalt not sacrifice before the Lord thy 


6 Sam. Vers., “ scribes.” 7 Sam. Vers.,  mammona.” 


XVIL] ON DEUTERONOMY. 5138 


God a bullock or ram which hath blemish in it, nor 
anything that is evil; for that is abomination before 
the Lord thy God. 

If, in any one of the cities which the Lord thy God 
will give thee, there be found a man or woman who 
hath done evil before the Lord thy God in transgressing 
his covenant, and going to do service to the idols of 
the Gentiles, or to the sun, moon, or all the host of the 
heavens, in worshipping them, which 1 have not com- 
manded; and it be told thee, and thou hast heard; 
thou shalt inquire fairly, and if such word be true that 
this abomination hath been wrought in Israel, thou 
shalt bring forth that man or woman, and stone them 
with stones that they die. On the word of two wit- 
nesses or of three shall he die who is guilty of death: he 
shall not die on the word of one witness. The hands 
of the witnesses shall be upon him first to kill him, and 
the hands of all the people afterward; and thou shalt 
put down the doer of evil from among vou. 

If a matter for judgment be extraordinary ® to thee, 
between blood and blood, between cause and cause, or 
between plague and plague, of leprosy, they being 
matters of divided judgment in thy cities,—then thou 
shalt arise and go up to the place which the 
Lord thy God shall choose, and come to 6 
priests, the Levites, and to the judge who may be in 
those days, and inquire; and they will show thee the 
sentence of decision. And thou shalt do according to 
the word of the sentence which they will show thee 
from the place which the Lord will choose, and thou 
shalt observe to do according to all that they will teach 
thee. Upon the word of the law which they teach 
thee, and upon the judgment they tell thee, thou shalt 
act.; thou shalt not swerve from the word they will. 


8 Ithpharash: other copies have zéhtasi, “ be hidden from thee.” 
2 5 


514 TARGUM OF ONKELOS. [cHap. 


have shown thee, to the right or the left. And 
the man who doeth wickedly in not receiving from the 
priest who standeth there to minister before the Lord 
thy God, or from the judge, that man shall die; and 
thou shalt put down the evil doer from Israel. And all 
the people will hear and be afraid, and do wickedly no 
more. 

When thou art come into the land which the Lord 
thy God will give thee, and dost possess and dwell in 
it, and thou mayest say, I will appoint a king over me, 
like the nations who are about me; thou mayest verily 
appoint over thee a king whom the Lord thy God will 
choose, from among thy brethren thou shalt appoint the 
king over thee. Thou shalt uot have power to set over 
thee a foreign man, who is uot thy brother. Only he 
shall not multiply to him horses, nor cause the people 
to return to Mizraim for the purpose of multiplying 
horses; for the Lord hath said to you, Ye shall no 
more return by that way. Neither shall he multiply 
wives to him, that his heart be not turned away; nor 
shall he increase silver and gold for himself greatly. 
And it shall be, when he sitteth upon the throne of his 
kingdom, he shall write for himself a copy of this Law 
in a book, out (of that which is) before the priests, the 
Levites. And he shall have it with him, to read in it 
all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear before 
the Lord his God, to keep all the words of this law, and 
these statutes, to perform them: that lis heart may not 
be lifted up from his brethren, nor swerve from the pre- 
cepts of the Lord to the right or to the left, and may 
prolong (his days) in his kingdom, he and his sons in 
the midst of Israel. 

XVIII. For the priests and Levites, (even) all the 
tribe of Levi, there shall be no part or inheritance with 
Israel; they shall eat the oblations of the Lord and 


XVIII. ] ON DEUTERONOMY. 515 


his inheritance, but have no heritage among their 
brethren: the gifts presented unto the Lord they are 
his heritage, as the Lord hath said to him. 

And this is what shall appertain to the priests from 
the people, from them who offer a sacrifice, whether 
bullock or lamb; they shall give to the priest the 
shoulder, the cheeks, and the maw. ‘The first of thy 
corn, wine, and oil, and the first of the fleece of thy sheep, 
thou shalt set apart for him. For the Lord thy God hath 
chosen him out of all thy tribes to stand to minister in 
the Name of the Lord, he, and his sons, all the days. 

And if a Levite come from one of thy cities out of 
all Israel, where he hath dwelt, and come with all the 
desire of his soul, to the place which the Lord will 
choose, then he shall minister in the Name of the Lord 
his God with his brethren the Levites who minister 
there before the Lord. Portion for portion shall they 
eat, beside the accustomed allotment which cometh on 
the Sabbath, as the fathers nave appointed.? 

When thou hast entered into the land which the 
Lord thy God will give thee, thou shalt not learn to do 
after the abominations of these peoples. No one shall 
be found among thee who maketh his son or his 
daughter to pass through the fire, using enchantments, 
observing times or augury or witchcraft, nor an incan- 
tator, or a consulter at a heathen oracle, or a wizard, or 
an inquirer from the dead: for all who do these things 
are an abomination to the Lord; and because of these 
abominations the Lord thy God driveth them out from 
before thee. Thou shalt be perfect in the fear of the 

5 Or, “‘beside the order which cometh on the Sabbath.” Heb., 
“beside his sellings according to the fathers” (query, “ patri- 
mony?”). Vulg., excepto eo quod in urbe sud ex paternd ei suc- 
cessione debetur. Syr., “beside the sale of the father’s (property :).” 
The Levites could purchase real property. Cump. 1 Kings ii. 26). 
Jerem, xxxii. 7, 8. 


516 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


Lord thy God. For these nations which thou shalt 
possess hearkened to diviners and enchanters; not so 
hath the Lord given thee to 00. A Propuet from 
among thee, of thy brethren, like me, will the Lord thy 
God raise up unto thee, to him shall ye hearken, 
According to all that thou didst ask before the Lord 
thy God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, saying : 
Let me not again hear the voice of the Word of the 
Lord my God, and let me not see the great fire any 
more, lest I die. And the Lord said to me, That 
which they have spoken is right: I will raise up to 
them a Prophet from among them like unto thee, and I 
will put My words of prophecy upon his lips, and he 
will speak to them all that I shall command him. And 
the man who will not hearken to My words which he 
will speak in My Name, My Word will require it of him. 

But a prophet who shall do wickedly in speaking in 
My Name a-word which I had not commanded him to 
speak, or who shall speak in the name of the gods of 
the Gentiles, that prophet shall die. And if thou say 
in thy heart, How shall we know the word which the 
Lord hath not spoken? When a prophet speaketh in 
the Name of the Lord, if the word come uot to pass, 
neither be confirmed, that is a word which the Lord 
hath not spoken: of the prophet who hath spoken in 
wickedness thou shalt not be afraid, 

XIX. When the Lord thy God hath destroyed the 
nations whose land the Lord thy God will give thee, 
and you possess it, and dwell in their cities and houses; 
three cities shalt thou set apart to thee within thy land, 
which the Lord thy God will give thee to inherit. Thou 
shalt prepare for thee a way, and divide into three parts 
the boundary of thy land which the Lord thy God 
giveth thee to possess, for any manslayer to escape 
thither. And this shall be the case of the manslayer 


DEUTERONOMY. 517‏ אס [.צנצ 


who fleeth thither that he may live: he who shall have 
slain his neighbour unwittingly, he not having hated 
him yesterday or before. As, when a man goeth with 
his neighbour into the thicket to cut wood, and his hand 
with the iron is driven aside in cutting the wood, and 
the iron flieth off from the handle and striketh (findeth) 
his neighbour, and he be killed, he shall flee to one of 
these cities that he may live; lest the avenger of blood 
pursue him while his heart is hot, and overtake him, 
because the way is long, and destroy his life; he not 
being guilty of death, because he had not hated him in 
time past. Wherefore, I command thee, saying: Thou 
shalt set apart to thee three cities. And when the Lord 
thy God shall enlarge thy border, as He sware to thy 
fathers, and give thee all the land which He said to thy 
fathers He would give, if thou wilt keep all this com- 
mandment which I command thee this day, to perform 
it, to love the Lord thy God, and to walk in the wars 
that are right before Him all the days; then thou 
halt add yet three cities to those three, that innocent 
blood may not be shed within thy land which the Lord 
thy God will give thee to inherit, and that the guilt of 
murder may not be upon thee. 

But if a man bear hatred to his neighbour, and lie 
in wait for him,’ and rise up against him, and destroy 
his life, and he die, and he flee to one of these cities, then 
the elders of his city shall send and take him from 
thence, and deliver him into the hand of the avenger of 
blood, and he shall die. Thine eye shall not have pity 
upon him, and thou shalt do away with the shedding of 
innocent blood from Israel, that it may be well with 
thee. 

Thou shalt not remove the boundary of thy neighbour 
which he hath set for a limit in the inheritance which 


1 Sam. Vers., “contend with him.” 


518 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


thou shalt possess in the land the Lord tliy God will 
give thee to inherit. 

One witness shall not rise up (alone) against a man 
for any iniquities or sins, or any sin by which he (may 
have) transgressed ; but upon the word of two or of 
three witnesses shall the case be confirmed. If a false 
witness stand up against a man to testify against him ? 
with perversity, then the two men to whom the cause 
belongeth shall stand in the presence of the Lord before 
the priests and judges who shall be in those days; and 
the judges shall make inquest fairly, and, behold, he 
hath testified falsely, and the testimony is false that he 
hath witnessed against his brother, then you shall do 
to him as he had designed to do to his brother, and so 
shall you put away the evil doer from among you. And 
the rest shall hear and be afraid, and not do any more 
like this evil thing among thee. And thine eye shall 
not have pity: life for life; eye for eye; tooth for 
tooth ; hand for hand; foot for foot. 

XX. When thou goest out to war with thy adver- 
saries, and seest horses, and chariots, and more people 
than thou, be not afraid of them; for thy helper is the 
Word of the Lord thy God, who brought thee up from 
the land of Mizraim. And it shall be when you draw 
nigh to battle, that the priest shall approach, and speak 
with the people, and say to them, Hear, Israel: you 
come this day to do battle with your enemies: let not 
your heart waver, neither be afraid, or confounded, or 
broken before them; for the Lord your God (is He) who 
goeth before you to fight for you against your enemies, 
to save you. And the officers shall speak before the 
people, saying: What man is there who hath built a 
new house, and hath not dedicated it < let him go and 
return to his house, lest he be slain in the battle, and 


2 Sam. Vers., “to atllict him.” 


DEUTERONOMY. 519‏ אס [.צא 


another man dedicate it. And what man who hath 
planted a vineyard, but hath not made it common (for 
use)? let him go and return to his house, lest he be 
slain in the battle, and another man make it common, 
(or partake of it). And what man hath betrothed a 
wife, and not taken her? let him go and return to his 
house, lest he be slain in the battle, and another man 
take her. And the officers shall yet speak to the people, 
and say: What man is there who is afraid and broken- 
hearted? Let him return to his house, and not make 
the heart of his brethren to be broken as his heart. 
And it shall be, when the officers have finished to speak 
with the people, they shall appoint captains of the host 
at the head of the people. 

When thou drawest nigh to a city to make war 
against it, then proclaim to it words of peace. And if 
it be that it make thee an answer of peace, and open to 
thee, then all the people who dwell in it shall be tribu- 
taries to thee and serve thee. But if it will not make 
peace with thee, but will have war with thee, then thou 
shalt besiege it: and when the Lord thy God hath 
delivered it into thy hand, thou mayest smite all the 
males thereof by the sentence of the sword; but the 
women, children, cattle, and all that is in the city, even 
all the spoil, thou shalt make booty for thyself; and 
thou shalt eat the spoil of thy enemies, which the Lord 
thy God will have given thee. Thus shalt thou do to all 
cities which are remote from thee, but are not of the 
cities of these nations ; for of the cities of these nations 
which the Lord thy God giveth thee, thou shalt not 
spare alive any breathing thing, but utterly destroy 
them, Hittites and Amorites, Kenaanites and Phere- 
sites, Hivites and Jebusites, as the Lord thy God hath 
commanded thee; that they may not teach you to do 
according to all their abominations which they have 


520 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


done to their idols, and you sin against the Lord your 
God. 

When thou layest siege to a city many days in making 
war against it to subdue it, thou shalt not destroy the 
trees (that are about) it, nor lift up the iron against 
them: for of them thou mayest eat ; thou shalt not cut 
them down, for the tree of the field is not like a man, to 
come against thee in the siege. Only a tree which thou 
knowest is not for food, thou mayest destroy and cut 
down; and thou shalt build bulwarks (palisades) 
against the city which maketh war with thee, until thou 
subdue it. 

XXI. When in the land which the Lord thy God 
giveth thee to inherit there may be found one who is 
slain, lying in the field, and it is not known who hath 
killed him, then thy elders and judges shall come forth 
and admeasure unto the cities that surround the dead 
man; and the elders of the city that is nearest to the 
dead man shall take an heifer of the herd which hath 
not been worked with, nor hath drawn on the yoke. 
And the elders of that city shall bring the heifer down 
to an uncultivated valley (or field) which is net tilled 
nor sown, and there cut off the heifer in the field. And 
the priests the sons of Levi shall go near,—for them 
the Lord thy God hath chosen to minister to Him, and to 
bless in the Name of the Lord, and on their word shall 
every controversy or stroke of leprosy (be adjudged); 
—and all the elders of that city which is nearest to the 
dead man shall wash their hands over the heifer which 
hath been cut off in the field; and shall answer and say, 
Our hands have not shed this blood, and our eyes have 
not seen. And the priests shall say, Forgive Thy 
people Israel whom Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed, and 
let not the guilt of innocent blood be among Thy people 
Israel. And it shall be forgiven them concerning the 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 521‏ [.זאא 


blood: so shalt thou put away the guilt of innocent 
blood from among you, when thou shalt do that which 
is right before the Lord. 


SECTION XLIX. 
TITSE. 


WueEn thou goest out to war against thy enemies, and 
the Lord thy God doth deliver them into thy hand, 
and thou takest them captive; and thou seest among the 
captives a woman of fair countenance, and hast a desire 
for her, and wouldst take her unto thee to wife; then thou 
shalt bring her into thy house, and she shall shave her 
head, and pare her nails, and take off from her the dress 
of her captivity, and dwell in thy house, and mourn for 
her father and mother a month of days; and afterward 
thou mayest go to her and marry her, and she shall be 
thy wife. 

But if it be that thou hast no pleasure in her, then 
thou mayest send her away by herself: thou shalt in no 
wise sell her for money, nor make merchandise of her, for 
thou hast afflicted her. 

If a man have two wives, the one beloved and the 
other hated, and they have borne sons, the beloved one 
and the hated one, and the firstborn son belong to the 
hated ; then in the day that he maketh his sons to 
inherit what he hath, he shall not make the son of the 
beloved to be (as) the firstborn over the head (face) of 
the son of the hated, the (actual) firstborn. For he shall 
distribute to the firstborn the son of the hated by 
giving him two parts of all his possession ; for he is the 
beginning of his strength, and to him pertaineth the 
birthright. 

Tf a man hath a son perverse and rebellious, who will 


522 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


not obey the word of his father or his mother, and, though 
they instruct him, will not hearken to them; then his 
father and mother shall lay hold of him, and bring him 
forth before the elders of his city at the gate of the 
judgment house of his place, and shall say to the elders 
of the city, This our son is perverse and rebellious ; he 
will not obey our words, he is a devourer of flesh and 
a taker of wine: then all the men of the city shall 
stone him with stones, that he die; and thou shalt put 
away the evil doer from among you, and all Israel will 
hear, and be afraid. When a man guilty of the judg- 
ment of death is put to death, and thou hast hanged 
him מס‎ 8 gibbet; his body shall not remain upon the 
gibbet, but thou shalt surely bury him on that day: for 
he was hanged because he had sinned before the Lord ;? 
and thy land which the Lord thy God hath given thee 
to inherit shall not be defiled. 

XXII. Thou shalt not see thy brother’s ox or his 
lamb going astray, and turn thyself aside from them; 
thou shalt surely bring them back to thy brother. And 
if thy brother be not near to thee, or if thou know him 
not, then thou shalt bring it into thy house, and it shall 
be with thee until thou make inquiry for thy brother, and 
then thou shalt restore it to him. In like manner shalt 
thou do with his ass, and with his garment, and with any 
lost thing of thy brother’s which thou mayest have found ; 
itis not lawful for thee to concealit. Thou shalt not see 
thy brother’s ass or his ox fallen in the way, and turn 
thyself away from them ; thou shalt surely lift them up 
for him. 

The adorning of a man shall not be upon a woman, 
nor shall the apparel of a man be like the apparel of a 
woman ; for every one who doeth these things is abomi- 


unable before the Lord thy God. 


5 Heb., * For the hanged one is a malediction of God.” 


XXII. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 523 


If thou find the nest of a bird before thee on the way, 
in any tree, or upon the ground, with young ones, or 
eggs, and the mother lying over the young ones, or upon 
the eggs, thou shalt not take the mother with the off- 
spring. Thou shalt send away the mother, and take the 
young ones with thee; that it may be well with thee, 
and thou mayest prolong thy days. 

When thou buildest a new house, then thou shalt 
make a parapet to thy roof, that thou mayest not 
bring the guilt of the blood of the slain upon thy 
house, by the falling of any one who may fall there- 
from. 

Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with mixed (seeds), 
lest what cometh from the seed which thou sowest, and 
the produce of thy vineyard, be unclean. Thou shalt 
not plough with an ox and an ass together. Thou shalt 
not -dress with a contexture of woollen and of linen 
joined together. Thou shalt make thee fringes (or 
tassels) upon the four corners of thy garment with which 
thou coverest thyself. 

If a man take a wife, and go unto her, and dislike her, 
and lay an occasion of words about her, or bring out an 
evil name upon her, and say, I took this woman and 
came to her, and I have not found her to be a virgin: 
then shall the father and mother of the damsel bring 
forth the tokens of the damsel’s virginity before the 
elders of the city, at the gate of the judgment house of 
the place; and the father of the damsel shall say to the 
elders, I gave my daughter to this man to wife, and he 
hateth her; and, behold, he hath set an occasion of 
words, saying, I have not found the virginity of thy 
daughter; but these are the tokens of my daughter’s 
virginity. And he shall spread the cloth before the elders 
of the city. And the elders of the city shall take that - 
man and scourge him, and fine him a hundred shekels 


524 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


of silver, and give to the father of the damsel, because 
he brought out an evil name upon a virgin of the house 
of Israel. And she shall be his wife, he hath no power 
to put her away all his days. But if this word be true, 
and the tokens of virginity are not found unto the 
damsel, then they shall bring out the damsel to the door 
of her father’s house, and the men of that city shall 
stone her with stones that she die; for she hath wrought 
shame in Israel in playing whoredom in her father’s 
house, and thou shalt put away the evil doer from 
among you. 

If a man be found lying with a woman, the wife of 
(another) man, they shall be both of them put to death, 
the man who lay with the woman, and the woman ; and 
thou shalt put away the evil doer from Israel. If a man 
find in the city a damsel, a virgin, who is betrothed to 
a man, and lie with her, then shall you bring them both 
out to the gate of that city, and stone them with stones 
that they die; the damsel because she cried not out in 
the city, and the man because he humiliated lus neigh- 
bour’s wife; and thou shalt put away the evil doer from 
among you. But if a man find the betrothed damsel in 
the field, and prevail against her, and lie with her, then 
only the man who lay with her shall be put to death; 
but unto the damsel thou shalt not do anything; there 
is not with the damsel guilt of the judgment of death; 
for as when a man riseth up against his neighbour and 
killeth him, even so is this matter; he found her in the 
field, the betrothed damsel cried, but there was none to 
deliver. If a man find a damsel, a virgin who is not 
betrothed, and lay hold of her and lie with her, and they 
be found, then the man who lay with her shall give to 
the damsel’s father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall 
be his wife; because he had humbled her, he shall not 
have power to send her away all his days. A man shall 


DEUTERONOMY. 525‏ אס [.זזזצצ 


not take his father’s wife, nor uncover the skirt of his 
father. 

XXIII. He who is castrated or ruptured shall not 
be clean so as to enter into the congregation of the 
Lord.* A bastard or mixed person (samzer)® shall not 
be clean, so as to enter into the congregation of the 
Lord ;* his offspring also to the tenth generation shall 
not be clean, so as to enter into the congregation of the 
Lord. An Ammonite or a Moabite shall not be clean, 
so as to enter into the congregation of the Lord; neither 
to the tenth generation shall they be clean ever to enter 
the congregation of the Lord; because they met you not 
with bread and water in the way, when you came up from 
Mizraim ; and because they hired Bilaam bar Beor from 
Pethor Aram, upon the Phrat, to curse thee. But the 
Lord thy God would not hearken to Bileam, and the 
Lord thy God turned the curses into blessings, because 
the Lord thy God loved thee. Thou shalt not seek their 
peace nor their prosperity all thy days for ever. Thou 
shalt not abhor an Edomite, for he is thy brother; thou 
shalt not abhor a Mizraite, for thou wast a sojourner in 
his land. The children that are begotten of them of the 
third generation shall be clean, so as to enter into the 
congregation of the Lord. When thou goest forth a 
host against thy enemies, then beware of every wicked 
thing. If there be among thee a man who is not clean, 
by an accident of the night, let him go forth without the 
camp, let him not enter into the midst of the camp, but 
at eventide let him wash with water, and at sunset he 
may come into the camp. And a place shall be 
appointed for thee outside of the camp, that thou mayest 


> That is, according to the Talmud, shall not be permitted to marry 


an Israelitish woman. 
5 According to the Rabbins, a person born from the illicit connexions 


forbidden in Leviticus. 


526 TARGUM OF ONKELOS. .זו‎ 


go thither without. And thou shalt have a blade upon 
thy weapon, that when thou sittest abroad thou mayest 
dig with it, and cover that which cometh from thee. 
For the Shekinah of the Lord thy God walketh amid thy 
camp to save thee and deliver up thy enemies before thee, 
and thy camp shall be sacred, that nothing that offendeth 
may be seen among thee, lest His Word turn away from 
doing thee good. 

Thou shalt not deliver up a slave of the Gentiles into 
the hand of his master, when he hath escaped to thee 
from his master; he shall dwell with thee in thy midst 
in the place that he may choose in one of thy cities 
where it may be best for him; thou shalt not oppress 
him. No woman of the children of Israel may be the 
wife of a man who is a slave; neither shall any man of 
the sons of Israel take a bondwoman to wife. Thou 
shalt not bring the hire of fornication nor tlie price of 
a dog into the house of the sanctuary of the Lord thy 
God, for any vow; for even both of them are an abemi- 
nation before the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not make 
usury® of thy brother; the usury of money, of corn, or 
of any thing that produceth usury. From a son of the 
Gentiles thou mayest take usury, but from thy brother 
thou shalt not take it; for the Lord thy God will bless 
thee in all that thou puttest thy hand unto in the land 
to which thou goest to possess it. 

When thou vowest a vow before the Lord thy God, 
thou shalt not delay to fulfil it; for the Lord thy God 
requiring will require it of thee, and it would become 
sin in thee. Yet if thou shonldst forbear to vow, it 
will not be sin in thee. What hath gone forth from 
thy lips thou shalt observe and perform; as thou hast 
vowed before the Lord thy God, (thou shalt perform) 
freely what thou hast spoken with thy lips. 


8 Sam. Vers., “ double,” 


XXIV. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 527 


Tf thou comest for hire into thy neighbour’s vineyard, 
thou mayest eat grapes for the satisfying of thy life; but 
thou shalt not put (them) into thy vessel. If thou 
comest into thy neighbour’s ripe corn, thou mayest 
pluck the full ears with thy hand, but not put in the 
sickle upon thy neighbour’s corn. 

When a man shall have taken a wife, and‏ ו[ 
become her husband, and she hath not found favour in‏ 
his eyes, because he hath found something wrong in‏ 
her, then he may write for her a bill of divorcement, and‏ 
give it into her hand, and send her from his house.‏ 
And when she hath departed from his house, she may‏ 
go and become (the wife) of another man. And if the‏ 
latter husband dislike her, and write her a bill of divorce,‏ 
and put it into her hand, and dismiss her from his‏ 
house; or if the latter busband who had taken her to‏ 
be his wife shall die, the first husband who had put her‏ 
away hath no power to return to take her to be his‏ 
wife, after that she hath been defiled; for that is an‏ 
abomination before the Lord; and thou shalt not cause‏ 
the land to sin, which the Lord thy God giveth thee to‏ 
inherit. When a man hath taken a new wife, he shall‏ 
not go forth with the army, nor shall any transaction be‏ 
(laid) upon him; he shall be free in his house for a‏ 
year, that he may cheer (or, may enjoy himself with) his‏ 
wife whom he hath taken.’‏ 

No man shall take as a pledge the millstones (cither 
lower) or upper; for by them is made the subsistence of 
every living man. Ifa man be found stealing a person 
of his brethren of the sons of Israel, to make merchan- 
dise of him, or to sell him, that man shall be put to 
death, and thou shalt put away the evil doer from among 
thee. Take heed, in the plague of leprosy, to observe 
and perform entirely all that the priests, the Levites, 


7 Sam, Vers., ‘‘ may rejoice with his wife.” 


528 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


shall teach you; as I have commanded them, you shall 
observe to do. Remember what the Lord thy God did 
unto Miriam, in the way when you came out of 
Mizraim. 

When thou hast lent the use of anything to thy 
neighbour, thou shalt not enter into lis house to take 
his pledge. Thou shalt stand without, and the man to 
whom thou hast lent shall bring out the pledge to thee. 
And if the man be poor, thou shalt not sleep with his 
pledge; thou shalt return him his pledge at sunset, that 
he may sleep in his garment, and may bless thee, and it 
shall be righteousness before the Lord thy God. Thou 
shalt not oppress an hireling who is needy and poor, 
(whether he be) of thy brethren, or of thy sojourners 
who are in thy land or thy cities. In his day thou shalt 
give him his hire; thou shalt not let the sun go down 
upon it, for he is needy, and to it he delivereth his life 
(soul); that he cry not against thee before the Lord, 
and it be sin in thee. The fathers shall not die for the 
children, nor shall children die for the fathers; a man 
shall die for his own sin. Thou shalt not wrest the 
judgment of the stranger or the orphan, nor take the 
garment of the widow for a pledge; but thou shalt 
remember that thou wast a bondman in Mizraim, and 
that the Lord thy God redeemed thee from thence; 
therefore 1 command thee to do this thing. 

When thou art harvesting thy harvest in thy field, 
and hast forgotten a sheaf in the field, thon shalt not 
return to take it; let it be for the stranger, the orphan, 
and the widow, that the Lord thy God may bless thee 
in all the work of thy hands. When thou beatest thy 
olive (trees), thou shalt not make search for what thou 
hast left behind thee; let it be for the stranger, the 
orphan, and the widow. When thou art gathering thy 
vineyard, thou shalt not glean the grapes that are left 


XXv.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 529 


behind thee ; let them be for the stranger, the orphan, 
and the widow ; and remember that thou wast a bond- 
man in the land of Mizraim; therefore have I com- 
manded thee to do this thing. 

XXYV. If there be (a case for) judgment between 
men, let them bring it to, the judges, that they may 
adjudicate ; and they shall justify the innocent, and con- 
demn the guilty. And if the guilty be condemned to 
be scourged, the judge shall cause him to lie down, and 
have him scourged before him (with stripes), in number 
according to the measure of his guilt. Forty (times) he 
may smite him, not more, lest he should go on to smite 
him above these with many stripes, and thy brother be 
made vile in thy eyes. Thou shalt not muzzle the 
mouth of the ox while he treadeth out (the corn). If 
brothers dwell together, and one of them die, having no 
son, the wife of the deceased shall not marry another 
man without; her husband’s brother shall go to her, 
and take her to him to wife, and marry her for his 
brother. And the first-born that she beareth shall keep 
up the name of his deceased brother, that his name be not 
blotted out from Israel. But should the man be unwilling 
to take the wife of his brother, his brother’s wife shall go 
up to the gate of the house of judgment, and say before 
the elders, My husband’s brother refuseth to keep up a 
name to his brother in Israel; he is not willing to 
marry me. Then the elders of his city shall call him, 
and speak with him; and if he rise up and say, It is 
not my pleasure to take her; then shall his brother’s 
wife approach him in the presence of the elders, and 
loose his shoe from off his foot, and spit in his face, and 
answer, and say, Thus let it be done to the man who will 
not build up the house of his brother. And his name 
shall be called in Israel, The house of the loosed shoe. 


If men strive together, a man and his brother, 
AA 


530 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


and the wife of one (of them) come nigh to save her 
husband from the hand of him who smiteth him, and put 
forth her hand and seize the place of his shame, then thou 
shalt cut off her hand, thine eye shall have no pity on her. 

Thou shalt not, have in thy bag weight and weight, 
great and small. Thou shalt not have in thy house 
measure and measure, great and small: perfect weights 
and true shalt thou have, perfect measures and true shalt 
thou have, that thy days may be prolonged upon the 
land which the Lord thy God giveth thee: for every one 
who doeth these things, every one who acteth falsely, is 
an abomination before the Lord thy God. 

Remember what Amalek did to thee in the way, when 
thou camest up out of Mizraim; how he overtook thee 
in the way, and slew of thee all who were following 
behind thee 5 when thou wast faint and weary; ° and he 
was not afraid before the Lord. Therefore when the 
Lord thy God shall have given thee rest from all thy 
enemies round about, in the land which the Lord thy 
God giveth thee for a possession to inherit, thou shalt 
blot out the memory of Amalek from under the heavens : 
thou shalt not be forgetful. 


SECTION L. 
70. 

AXYVI. And when thou hast entered into the land 
which the Lord thy God will give thee for possession, 
and thou inherit and dwell in it, thou shalt take of the 
first of all the produce of the earth which thou shalt 
bring up from the land the Lord thy God will give 
thee, and put it intoa basket, and go to the place which 
the Lord thy God will choose to make His Shekinah to 


* Sam. text, “the infirm.” * Sam. Vers., “ hungry.” 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 531‏ [,נטצצ 


dwell there. And thou shalt come unto the priest who 
will be in those days, and say to him: I profess this 
day before the Lord thy God, that I have come into the 
land which the Lord did covenant to our fathers to give 
them. And the priest shall take the basket from thy hand, 
and lay it down before the altar of the Lord thy God; 
and thou shalt answer and say before the Lord thy God: 

Laban the Aramite sought to destroy my father,! and 
he went down to Mizraim, and dwelt there with a few 
people, but became there a people great and strong. 
But the Mizraee maltreated and afflicted us, and laid 
hard labour upon us. And we prayed before the Lord, 
the God of our fathers ; and the Lord heard our prayer, 
and our travail, weariness, and oppression were manifest 
before Him; and the Lord brought us out of Mizraim 
with a mighty hand and uplifted arm, with great visions, 
signs, aud wonders, and brought us to this place, and 
gave us this land, a land producing milk and honey. 
And now, behold, I have brought the first fruits of the 
land which Thou, O Lord, hast given me. 

And thou shalt set it down before the Lord thy God, 
and worship before the Lord thy God. And thou shalt 
rejoice in all the good which the Lord thy God hath 
given thee, with the men of thy house, the Levite and 
the stranger who is among you. 

When thou hast made an end of tything all the tythe 
of thy produce in the third year, the year of the tythes, 
and hast given it to the Levite, the stranger, the orphan, 
and the widow, that they may eat within thy cities and 
be satisfied, then thou shalt say before the Lord thy God: 

have set apart the consecrated tenth from my house,‏ ד 


1 Heb. text, “A perishing Aramite was my father.” Vulgate, “A 
Syrian persecuted my father.” Septuagint, “My father abandoned 
Syria.” Peschito Syriac, “My father was led to Aram, and he went ., 
down to Mizreen.” 


9a Q 


5382 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


and have given also to the Levite, the stranger, the 
fatherless, and the widow, according to all Thy command- 
ment which Thou hast commanded me. I have not 
transgressed Thy commandment, nor been forgetful. 1 
have not eaten of it in my mourning, nor exchanged any 
of it for what is unclean, nor given of it for the dead. 
T have been obedient to the Word of the Lord my God, 
and have done according to all that Thou hast com- 
manded me. Look down from the heavens, the habita- 
tion of Thy holiness, and bless Thy people Israel, and 
the land which Thou hast given us, as Thou didst swear 
to our fathers, a land producing milk and honey. 

This day doth the Lord thy God command thee to do 
these statutes and judgments, and to keep and perform 
them with all thy heart, and with all thy soul. This 
day hast thou declared (or avouched) the Lord to be 
thy God, and to walk in the ways that are right before 
Him, and to keep His statutes, His commandments, and 
His judgments, and to be obedient to His word. And 
the Lord hath declared thee this day to be His beloved 
people, as He hath said unto thee, that thou mayest 
observe all His commandments, and that He may set 
thee above all the nations whom He hath made, in praise, 
and in name, and in greatness, and that thou mayest be a 
holy people before the Lord thy God, as He hath spoken. 

XXVII. And Mosheh and the elders of Israel in- 
structed the people, saying: Observe all the command- 
ments which I command you this day. In the day that 
you pass over the Jordan to the land which the Lord 
thy God giveth thee, thou shalt set thee up great stones, 
and cover them with plaster (or lime), and write upon 
them all the words of this law, when thou hast passed 
over to go into the land which the Lord thy God giveth 
thee, a ee producing milk and honey, as the Lord 
God of thy fathers hath said to thee. When you have 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 533‏ [,זנטצצ 


passed the Jordan, you shall set up those stones which 1 
command you this day, on the mountain of Ebal, and 
plaster them with lime; and thou shalt build an altar 
before the Lord thy God, an altar of stones: thou 
shalt not lift up iron upon it. With perfected stones 
shalt thou build the altar of the Lord thy God, and offer 
sacrifices thereon before the Lord thy God. And thou 
shalt sacrifice consecrated victims, and eat there, and 
rejoice before the Lord thy God; and thou shalt write 
upon the stones all the words of this law, distinctly and 
beautifully. 

And Mosheh, and the priests, the Levites, spake to all 
Israel: Listen and hear, O Israel: To-day art thou a 
people before the Lord thy God ; and thou shalt hearken 
to the Word of the Lord thy God, and do His command- 
ments and His statutes which I command thee this 
day. And Mosheh charged the people on that day, 
saying: These shall stand to bless the people on the 
mountain of Gerizim, when you have passed the Jordan ; 
Shemeon and Levi, Jehudah, Issakar, Joseph, and 
Benjamin. And these shall stand to accurse upon the 
mountain of Ebal; Reuben and Asher, Zebulon, Dan, 
and Naphtali. And the Levites shall answer and say to 
all the men of Israel, with a high voice : 

Accursed be the man who shall make an image or 
molten (one), an abomination before the Lord, the work 
of an artificer’s hand, and place it in secret. And all 
the people shall respond and say, Amen. Accursed be 
he who contemneth his father or his mother. And 
all the people shall say, Amen. Accursed he who 
changeth the boundary of his neighbour. And all the 
people shall say, Amen. Accursed he who maketh the 
blind wander in the way. And all the people shall say, 
Amen. Accursed he who perverteth the judgment of 
the stranger, the orphan, or the widow. And all the 


534 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHAP. 


people shall say, Amen. Accursed he who lieth with 
his father’s wife: he uncovereth the skirt of his father. 
And all the people shall say, Amen. Accursed is he 
who lieth with any beast. And all the people shall say, 
Amen. Accursed is he who lieth with his sister, the 
daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother. 
And all the people shall say, Amen. Accursed is he 
who lieth with his mother-in-law. And all the people 
shall say, Amen. Accursed is he who smiteth his neigh- 
bour in secret. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
Accursed is he who receiveth hire to kill the life, and 
(shed the) blood of the innocent. And all the people 
shall say, Amen. Accursed is he who confirmeth not 
the words of this law to do them. And all the people 
shall say, Amen. 

XXVIII. And if thou wilt indeed be obedient to 
the Word of the Lord thy God, to observe and to do all 
His commandments which I command thee this day, 
the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all the 
peoples of the earth ; and all these blessings shall come 
upon thee and keep with thee, if thou wilt be obedient 
to the Word of the Lord thy God. Blessed (shalt) thou 
(be) in the city, and blessed in the field. Blessed shall 
be the offspring of thy womb, and the produce of thy 
land, the increase of thy cattle, the oxen of thy herd, 
and the flocks of thy sheep. Blessed shall be thy 
basket and thy store.? Blessed shalt thou be in thy 
coming in, and blessed in thy going out. The Lord 
shall cause thy adversaries that rise up against thee to be 
shattered before thee ; they will come out to thee in one 
way, but in seven ways shall they flee from before thee. 
The Lord will command a blessing upon thee in all thy 
storehouses, and on all that thou settest thy hand unto, 
and will bless thee in the land which the Lord thy God 

2 Sam. Vers., “thy grinding and thy kneading.” 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 535‏ [.זנדוצצ 


giveth to thee. The Lord shall confirm thee for Him- 
self to be a holy people, as He hath sworn to thee, if 
thou wilt keep the commandments of the Lord thy God, 
and walk in the ways which are right before Him. 
And all the nations of the earth shall see that the Name 
of the Lord is invoked upon thee, and they will be 
afraid of thee. And the Lord will make thee to abound 
in good, in the offspring of thy womb, and of thy cattle, 
and in the produce of thy ground, in the land which 
the Lord sware to thy fathers to give thee. The Lord 
will open for thee His good treasure, the heavens, to 
give rain to thy land in its season, and to bless all the 
works of thy hand; and thou shalt lend unto many 
nations, but not borrow; and the Lord will make thee 
strong and not weak, and thou shalt evermore be upper 
and not under, if thou wilt obey the commandments of 
the Lord thy God which I command thee this day to 
keep and to perform. And you shall not go astray from 
any of the things I command you this day, right or left, 
to walk after the gods of the Gentiles to serve them. 
But if thou wilt not obey the Word of the Lord thy 
God to observe and do all His commandments, and His 
statutes which I command you this day, all these curses 
shall come upon thee and cleave to thee. Accursed shalt 
thou be in the city, and accursed in the field; accursed 
thy basket and thy store; accursed the generation of thy 
womb, the produce of thy ground, the oxen of thy herd, 
and the folds of thy sheep. Accursed shalt thou be in 
thy coming in, and accursed in thy going out. The 
Lord shall send upon thee malediction and trouble and 
rebuke (or menace) in all that thou settest thine hand 
unto for to do, until thou art consumed and perish 
quickly, on account of the wickedness of thy works, when 
thou hast forgotten to fear Me (or, whereby thou hast 
forgotten My fear). The Lord shall make the pestilence 


536 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


cleave to thee, until He have destroyed thee from off the 
land into which thou art going to possess it. The Lord 
will smite thee with wasting, with fever, with inflamma- 
tion, with dryness, and with the sword, and with 
jaundice (or mildew ?). And they shall follow thee till 
thou art destroyed. And the heavens over thy head will 
be obdurate as brass in withholding rain, and the ground 
under thee obstinate as iron in producing no fruit. 
The Lord will give thee ashes for the rain of thy land, 
and dust will come down from the heavens upon thee, 
until thou be consumed. The Lord will deliver thee up 
to be broken before thy enemies; thou wilt go out to 
them by one way, but by seven ways shalt thou flee 
before them, and thou shalt be dispersed in all the 
kingdoms of the earth. And thy carcase shall be cast 
out for food for all the fowls of the heaven, and for the 
beasts of the earth, and there shall be none to drive 
(them) away. And the Lord will smite thee with the 
ulcer of the Mizraee, with emerods, soreness, and the dry 
scurvy, from whicb thou canst not be healed. And the 
Lord will smite thee with distraction, and blindness, and 
with bewilderment of heart ; and thou shalt grope in the 
noonday as the blind gropeth in darkness; and thou 
shalt not prosper in thy way, but be only oppressed and 
despoiled always, and no man will be able to save. 
Thou wilt betroth a wife, but another man shall have 
her; thou wilt build a house, but not dwell in it, and 
plant a vineyard, but have no use thereof. Thy ox will 
be killed in thy sight, but thou shalt not eat of it; thy 
ass shall be taken away from thee, and not be returned to 
thee; thy sheep will be delivered to thy enemies, and 
thou wilt have no one to rescue them; thy sons and 
daughters will be given up to another people, and thy 
eyes look and fail (with longing) for them all the day, 
and there shall be no power in thy hand. The produce 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 537‏ [.זנדוצא 


of thy land and all thy labours a people whom thou 
knowest not shall devour, and thou wilt only be 
oppressed and crushed all the days. And thou wilt be 
mad through the sight of thy eyes which thou seest. 
The Lord will smite thee with an evil ulcer upon thy 
knees and thy thighs, from which thou wilt not be able 
to be healed from the sole of thy foot unto thy brain. 

The Lord will make thee and thy king whom thou 
mayest have set over thee to be captive toa people whom 
thou and thy fathers have not known; and there shalt 
thou serve a people, worshippers of idols of wood and 
stone ; and thou wilt become a ruin, a proverb, and a 
history, among all nations whither the Lord shall make 
thee go. 

Mauch seed wilt thou carry out into the field, but little 
shalt thou gather in, for the locust will consume it; 
thou wilt plant and till vineyards, but wilt not drink the 
wine, nor gather in, for-the worm shall eat it; thou wilt 
have olive trees in all thy borders, but with the oil thou 
wilt not anoint, for thy olive trees shall waste; thou 
wilt beget sons and daughters, but wilt not have them 
(with thee), for they shall go into captivity. The locust 
will consume all the fruitage and the trees of thy land. 
The uncircumcised stranger who is among thee will rise 
up high above thee, but thou shalt be brought down very 
low: he shall lend to thee, but thou wilt not lend to 
him; he will be strong, and thou wilt be weak. And 
all these curses shall couie upon thee, and follow thee, 
and cleave to thee till thou art consumed, because thou 
wast not obedient to the Word of the Lord thy God, to 
keep His commandments and His statutes which He 
hath commanded thee. And they will be upon thee for 
a sign and a wonder, and upon thy children for ever; 
because thou wouldst not worship before the Lord thy 
God with cheerfulness and comeliness of heart for the 


OO . OF 


a 





538 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHap. 


abundance of all (His benefits): but thou shalt serve 
thy enemies whom the Lord will send against thee, in 
hunger, thirst, nakedness, and want of all things; and 
He will put a yoke of iron upon thy neck until He hath 
destroyed thee. And the Lord will bring upon thee a 
nation from afar, from the ends of the earth, like the 
flying eagle, a people whose language thou wilt not 
understand, a people of mighty presence, who will not 
regard the old man, nor have mercy on the infant. And 
he will eat up the increase of thy cattle, and the 
fruitage of thy ground, until he hath consumed thee; 
for he will not leave thee corn, wine, nor oil, the oxen 
of thy herd, nor the sheep of thy flock, until he hath 
brought thee to ruin. And he will shut thee up in all 
thy cities, till he hath brought down thy high and 
fenced walls, wherein thou didst confide to be saved by 
them throughout all thy land; and he will besiege thee 
in all thy cities in all thy land which the Lord thy God 
did give thee. And thou wilt eat the offspring of thy 
womb, the flesh of thy sons and daughters whom the 
Lord thy God had given thee, in the siege and straitness 
with which thy enemies shall straiten thee. The man 
who is gentle among you, and very delicate, will. look 
with an evil eye upon his brother, and upon the wife of 
his covenant, and upon the remnant of his children 
whom he will leave; he will not give to one of them of 
the flesh of his children which he shall eat, for that 
nothing remaineth to him of all, in the siege and the 
straitness with which thy enemies shall straiten thee 
in all thy cities. She who is tender among you, and 
delicate, who had not (been used to) put the sole of her 
foot upon the ground under her, from delicateness and 
tenderness, will look with an evil eye upon the husband 
of her covenant, and upon her son and her daughter, 
and against her little children who have been brought 


XXVIIL] ON DEUTERONOMY. 539 


forth of her, and against her children whom she hath 
borne; for she will eat them in secret, in the want of 
all things, in the siege and the straitness with which thy 
enemies shall straiten thee in thy cities:—if thou wilt 
not observe to perform all the words of this law which 
are written in this book, to reverence this glorious and 
fearful Name, tae Lorp tuy Gop. And the Lord 
will make thy plagues to be manifest (distinguished), 
and the plagues of thy children, great plagues and con- 
tinuous, afflictions evil and abiding. And He will lay 
upon thee all the strokes of Mizraim of which thou wast 
afraid, and they shall cleave to thee. All the diseases 
also and all the plagues that are not written in the book 
of this law, will the Lord lay upon thee till He hath 
destroyed thee. And you, who had been as the stars of 
heaven for multitude, will be left a small people, because 
you would not be obedient to the Word of the Lord 
your God. And as the Lord rejoiced over you to do 
you good and to multiply you, so will the Lord rejoice 
over you to destroy and consume you, and to carry you 
away from off the land which you are entering to possess 
it. And the Lord will scatter thee among all nations 
unto the ends of the earth; and thou shalt there serve 
peoples who worship idols of wood and stone, which 
neither thou nor thy fathers have known. But among 
those nations thou wilt have no repose, nor will the sole 
of thy foot have rest, but the Lord will give thee there 
a timorous heart, darkness of eyes, and feebleness of 
mind; and thou wilt hold thy life in suspense, and be 
afraid by night and day, for thou wilt be never sure of 
thy life. In the morning thou wilt say, O that it were 
evening! but in the evening thou wilt say, O that it 
were morning! from the fearfulness of thy heart with 
which thou wilt fear, and the sight of thy eyes which 
3 Heb., Yehovah Eloheika. 


540 TARGUM OF OXKELOS [cHar. 


thou shalt see. And the Lord will cause thee to return 
to Mizraim, in ships, by the way of which I spake with 
thee, Thou shalt see it no more: and there shall you be 
offered for sale for bondmen and bondwomen, but none 
shall buy. 

These are the words of the covenant which the Lord 
commanded Mosheh to ratify with the children of Israel 
in the land of Moab; besides the covenant which He 
ratified with them at Horeb. 

XXIX. And Mosheh called unto all Israel, and said 
to them: You have seen all that the Lord wrought 
before your eyes in the land of Mizraim on Pharoh, and 
all his servants, and on all his land; the great temp- 
tations, the signs and grand portents which thy eyes 
beheld ; yet the Lord hath not given you a heart to 
understand, nor eyes to discern, nor ears to hear, unto 
this day. And I have led you forty years in the wilder- 
ness; your raiment hath not become old upon you, and 
thy shoes have not worn away from off thy feet; you 
have not eaten bread, nor drunk wine, either new or old, 
that you may know that I am the Lord your God. 

And you came to this place; and Sihon the king of 
Heshbon and Og ihe king of Mathnan came out to 
meet us, to wage battle; and we smote them, and sub- 
dued their land, and gave it for an inheritance to the tribe 
ef Reuben and Gad, and the half tribe of Menasheh. 
Keep ye the words of this covenant, and perform them, 
that you may prosper in all that you do, 


SECTION LI. 


NITSTSABIM. 


You stand this day all of you before the Lord your 
God, the princes of your tribes, your elders, and your 


XXIX.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 541 


officers, every man of Israel ; your children, your wives, 
and thy sojourner who is within thy camp, from the 
hewer of thy wood to the filler of thy water; to enter 
into the covenant of the Lord thy God, and into His 
oath which the Lord thy God doth ratify with thee this 
day, that He may establish thee this day to be a people 
before Him, and that He may be a God unto thee, as 
He promised thee, and as He sware unto Abraham, and 
to Izhak, and to Jakob. 

And I ratify this covenant and oath not with you only, 
but with him who is standing here with us this day 
before the Lord our God, and with him also who is not 
here with us this day. For you know how we dwelt in 
the land of Mizraim, and how we came through the 
midst of the nations by whom we have passed. And 
you have seen their abominations, and their idols of 
wood and stone, silver and gold, which (were found) 
among them; lest there should be among you a man, 
woman, family, or tribe whose heart is turned away this 
day from the fear of the Lord our God, to go after the 
worship of these Gentiles; lest there should be with 
you a man who imagineth wickedness or pride, that, 
when he heareth the words of this oath, he should reckon 
in his heart, saying, I shall have peace, though I go on 
in the imagination of my heart to multiply sins of 
ignorance with (sin of) presumption. The Lord will 
not absolve him, but now will the anger and indigna- 
tion of the Lord break forth against that man, and all 
the curses which are written in this book will cleave to 
him, and his name will be blotted out from under the 
heavens. And the Lord will separate him from all the 
tribes of Israel unto evil, according to all the curses of 
the covenant which are written in the book of this law. 
And the generation that cometh after, and your children 
who will arise after you, and the son of the Gentiles who 


542 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


may come from a land afar off, when they see the plagues 
of that land, and the afflictions with which the Lord 
will afflict it, the whole land, brimstone and salt and 
burning, with no sowing, or growth, or any herbage 
springing up therein, even as the overthrow of Sedom and 
Amorah, Admah and Zeboim, which the Lord overthrew 
in His anger and indignation, even all the nations will 
say, Why did the Lord thus to this land? What caused 
the fury of this wrath? Then shall they say, Because 
they have forsaken the covenant of the Lord, the God 
of their fathers, which He ratified with them when He 
brought them out of the land of Muizraim. For they 
went and served the idols of the Gentiles, and worshipped 
fearful things which they knew not, and which could do 
them no good. And the anger of the Lord waxed 
strong against this land to bring upon it all the curses 
that are written in this book. Aud the Lord cast them 
away from off their land in anger, indignation, and 
great violence, and drave them captive into another land 
as at this day. The things which are secret are before 
the Lord our God; and those which are revealed are 
ours, and our children’s for ever, that we may do all the 
words of this law. 

XXX. And it will be that when all these words of 
blessings or of maledictions which I have set before thee 
have come upon thee, and thou turn unto thy heart 
among all the nations whither the Lord thy God will 
have led thee captive, and return to the fear of the Lord 
thy God, and obey His Word, according to all that I 
command thee this day, thou and thy children, with all 
thy heart and all thy soul, that the Lord thy God will 
turn thy captivity,* and have mercy upon thee, and will 
return, and gather thee from all the nations among 


* Sam. Vers., “that the Lord thy God may return with thy conver- 
sion.” 


ON DEUTERONOMY. a43‏ [.צצצ 


which the Lord thy God hath dispersed thee. If any of 
thy dispersed be (scattered) unto the ends of the heavens, 
from thence will the Lord thy God gather thee, and lead 
thee. And the Lord thy God will bring thee into the 
land which thy fathers did inherit, and thou shalt possess 
it: and he will do thee good, and multiply thee above 
thy fathers. And the Lord thy God will take away the 
foolishness of thy heart, and the foolishness of thy chil- 
dren’s heart, to love the Lord thy God with all thy 
heart and all thy soul, that thou mayest live. And the 
Lord thy God will put all these curses upon thy enemies 
and upon them who hated and persecuted thee; but 
thou shalt return and be obedient to the Word of the 
Lord, and do all the commandments which I command 
thee this day. 

And the Lord thy God will make thee to abound in 
all the works of thy hand, the offspring of thy womb, 
the increase of thy cattle, and the produce of thy land, 
unto good; for the Lord will return to rejoice® over 
thee for good, as He rejoiced over thy fathers; when 
thou shalt be obedient to the Word of the Lord thy 
God, to keep His commandments and statutes which are 
written in the book of this law, if thou return unto the 
fear of the Lord thy God with all thy heart and all thy 
soul. 

For this commandment which I command thee this 
day is not apart 5 from thee, nor is it far away. It is 
not in the heavens, that thou shouldst say, Who shall 
ascend for us into heaven, that he may bring it to us, 
that we may hear and do it? nor is it beyond the sea, 
that thou shouldst say, Who will go over for us beyond 
the sea, and bring it to us, that we may hear and do it? 


5 Sam. Vers., “to be kind to thee, as to thy fathers.” / 
5 Or, “separated,” mepharash. Hebrew text, nephleeth, “too won- 
derful for thee.” Vulg., zon supra te, Syr., /o kasé, “is not hidden.” 


544 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaAP. 


For the word is very nigh thee, in thy mouth and in 
thy heart, that thou mayest do it. 

Behold, I have set before thee this day life and good, 
and death and evil; for I command thee this day to love 
the Lord thy God, to walk in the ways that are right 
in His presence, and to keep His commandments, 
statutes, and judgments, that thou mayest live and 
multiply, and the Lord God may bless thee in the land 
into which thou art going, to possess it. But if thy 
heart be averse, and thou wilt not obey, but wilt go 
astray, and worship the idols of the Gentiles, and serve 
them, I have shown you this day that perishing you 
shall perish. You will not prolong your days upon the 
land whither thou passest over Jordan to enter in and 
possess it. I call heaven and earth to attest in you this 
day that I have set before thee life and death, blessings 
and curses: but choose for life, that thou mayest live, 
thou and thy children, to love the Lord thy God, to be 
obedient to His word, and to keep close unto His fear, 
for He is thy life, and the prolonger of thy days, to 
abide upon the land which the Lord sware to thy fathers, 
to Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, to give unto them. 


SECTION LII. 
VAIYELECH. 


XXXI. Anp Mosheh went and spake these words 
with all Israel. And he said to them, I am the son of 
a hundred and twenty years this day. I am no more 
able to go out and to come in; and the Lord hath said 
to me, Thou shalt not pass over this Jordan. The Lord 
thy God, He goeth over before thee; He will destroy 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 545‏ [,נצצא 


these nations from before thee, and thou shalt inherit 
them. Jehoshua, he goeth over before thee, as the 
Lord hath said. And the Lord will do to them as He 
did to Sihon and to Og, kings of the Amorites, and to 
the lands of them whom He destroyed. The Lord will 
deliver them up, and you shall do to them according 
to all the commandments that I have commanded you. 
Be strong and of good courage, fear not, nor be broken 
before them ; for the Word of the Lord thy God will be 
the leader before thee, He will not forsake thee, nor be 
far off from thee. 

And Mosheh called Jehoshua, and said to him before 
the eyes of all Israel, Be strong and of good courage ; 
for thou art to go in with this people to the ]and which 
the Lord hath sworn to their fathers to give it to them, 
and thou shalt cause them to inherit. But the Lord, 
He is the leader before thee; His Word shall be thy 
helper, for He will not forsake thee, nor be far from 
thee; fear not, nor be dismayed. 

And Mosheh wrote this law, and gave it to the 
priests, the sons of Levi, who bare the Ark of the 
Covenant of the Lord, and to all the elders of Israel. 
And Mosheh commanded them, saying: At the end of 
seven years, at the time of the year of release, at the 
Feast of Tabernacles, when all Israel cometh to appear 
before the Lord thy God, in the place that He will 
choose, thou shalt read this law before all Israel, and 
make them hear. Gather the people together, the men, 
the women, and children, and thy sojourners who are in 
thy cities, that they may hear, and learn, and fear before 
the Lord your God, and observe and perform all the words 
of this law, and that their children who have not known 
may hear and learn to fear before the Lord all the days 
that you abide upon the land to which you pass over, 
the Jordan to possess it. 


546 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


And the Lord said to Mosheh, Behold, the days are 
drawing near for thee to die: call Jehoshua, and let 
him stand in the tabernacle of ordinance, and I will 
give him commandment. And Mosheh and Jehoshua 
went and stood in the tabernacle of ordinance. And 
the Lord was revealed at the tabernacle in the pillar of 
the cloud, and the pillar of the cloud stood over the 
door of the tabernacle. And the Lord said to Mosheh, 
Behold, thou art to sleep with thy fathers; and this 
people will rise up and go astray after the idols of the 
peoples of the land among whom they are going, and 
will forsake My fear, and remove (or change) from My 
covenant’? which I have made with them. And my 
anger will be kindled against them at that time, and 1 
will drive them afar off, and remove My Shekinah® from 
them to consume them,? and many evils and troubles 
shall befall them. And they will say in that day, Is it 
not because the Shekinah of my God is not among me, 
that these evils have befallen me? But I will remove 
My Shekinah from them at that time on account of the 
evils they had done; for they will have turned away 
after the idols of the nations. 

And now, write for you this hymn, and teach it to 
the children of Israel; put it upon their lips, that this 
hymn may be a witness for Me against the children of 
Israel. For when they will have entered into the land 
which I promised to their fathers, (a land) producing 
milk and honey, and they have eaten and been satisfied, 
and have become luxurious, they will turn away after 
the idols of the nations, and serve them, and provoke 
to anger before Me, and change from My covenant. 
And when many evils and troubles have fallen on them, 


* Heb, text, “ and will violate My covenant,”—vehepher Berithi. 
8 Sam. Vers., “ My favour.” 


* Other copies, “to cast them away.” 


DEUTERONOMY. 547‏ אס [,נצצצ 


this song shall answer against them, for it will not be 
forgotten from the mouth of their children, because 
their imagination which they will do is manifest before 
Me this day, while (as yet) I have not brought them 
into the land which I have promised. 

And Mosheh wrote this hymn on that day, and 
taught it to the children of Israel, And he com- 
manded Jehoshua bar Nun, and said, Be strong, and 
of good courage ; for thou shalt bring the sons of Israel 
into the land which I have promised to them, and His 
Word shall be thy helper. And it was, when Mosheh 
had finished to write the words of this law upon a book 
until they were completed, that Mosheh commanded 
the Levites who bare the Ark of the Covenant of the 
Lord, saying, Take this book of the law, and put it in 
the side of the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, and it 
shall be there for a witness against thee. For I know 
thy rebelliousness, and the stiffness of thy neck: behold, 
while I am alive with you this day, you have rebelled 
against the Lord; but (how much) also after that I am 
dead? Gather to me all the elders of your tribes, and 
your officers, and I will speak these words before you, 
and will call the heavens and earth to witness: for 1 
know that after I am dead you will corrupt yourselves, 
and decline from the way which I have commanded you, 
and that evil will befall you at the end of the days; for 
you will do evil before the Lord to provoke Him to 
anger by the works of your hands. And Mosheh spake 
before all the congregation of Israel the words of this 
hymn, until he had finished it. 


548 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [cHaP. 


SECTION LIII. 
HAAZINU. 


XXXII. Listen, ye heavens, and I will speak; 
give ear, O earth, to the words of my mouth. My 
doctrine shall be soft as rain; let it be received as the 
dew, and my word be as the breath of the rain that 
breathes upon the grass, and as the showers of the latter 
rain upon the herbage. For in the Name of the Lord 
do I invoke :—Ascribe ye greatness unto our God; the 
Mighty One whose works are perfect ; for all His ways 
are justice; a faithful God from whom no iniquity 
proceedeth, just and true is He. 

They have corrupted themselves, and not Him;? 
children who worship idols, a generation that changeth 
its work, and maketh it another. Behold, render you 
this before the Lord, ye people who have received the 
law, but have not become wise? Is He not thy Father, 
and thou art His who made thee and bought thee ? 
Remember the days of old, consider the years of genera- 
tion and generation; ask thy fathers, and they will 
show thee, thy elders, and they will tell thee. When 
the Most High gave the nations their inheritance, when 
He made the distribution of the children of men, He 
ordained the boundaries of the nations after the numbers 
of the sons of Israel? For the Lord’s portion is His 
people, Jakob is the lot of His inheritance. He satisfied 
their wants in the land of the wilderness, in the dry 
place where there was no water; He placed them round 
about His Shekinah ; He taught them the words of His 


+ The meaning seems to be, “Their wickedness is from themselves, 
not from the Holy God.” 


5 He limited the boundaries of the natious, that Kenaan should 
belong to the people of Israel.’—HERbER. 


+ 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 549‏ [.זנצצצ 


law; He kept them as the apple of His eye. As the 
eagle which hasteneth to his. nest, and spreadeth himself 
over his young ones, stretching out his wings, taketh 
them, upbeareth them with the strength of his pinions,? 
so did the Lord alone prepare them to dwell in the 
world which He will renew (set right), while the worship 
of idols shall not be established before Him. He made 
them to dwell in the strong places of the earth, to eat 
the spoil of their enemies: He gave them the spoil of 
the rulers of cities, and the wealth of them who dwelt in 
strong defences. He gave them the spoil of tlieir kings 
and sultans, with the riches of their princes, and the 
strength of the people of their lands, their possessions, 
the booty of their hosts and camps, and the blood of 
their heroes was poured out like water. 

But Israel waxed fat and kicked, he prospered, grew 
strong and got rich, and forgat the worship of Eloha who 
made him, and provoked the Almighty who redeemed 
him. They provoked Him by the worship of idols, by 
abominations they made Him angry. They sacrificed to 
demons in whom there is no help, (nothing that is 
needed,) and fearful things that they had not known, 
new (gods) that were lately made, with which your 
fathers had no dealings ; of the Awful One and the Omni- 
potent who created thee, thou art forgetful; thou hast 
forsaken the worship of Eloha who made thee. 

And it was seen before the Lord, and His anger was 
kindled by the provocation of His sons and daughters 
before Him. And He said: I will take away (take up) 
My Shekinah from among them; what will be their 
latter end is manifest to Me; for they are a perverse 
generation, children in whom is no faith. They have 
moved Me to jealousy by that which is not worshipful, 
they have angered Me by their idolatries; and I will. 

3 Ebarohi, “his limbs.” 


550 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


make them jealous by what hath not been a people, by 
a foolish nation will I provoke them. Fora burning, 
strong as fire, shall go forth before Me in fury con- 
suming unto the lowest hell, to make an end of the 
earth and its produce, and to destroy the mountains to 
the end; and I will multiply calamities upon them, My 
plagues will I send forth among them; they shall be 
swollen with hunger, and be eaten by the fowl, and be 
vexed with evil spirits; and the teeth of wild beasts 
will I appoint among them with the venom of serpents 
that crawl in the dust. Without will the sword devour, 
and within the chambers be the slaughter-work of death, 
the youths and the maidens, the sucklings with the 
aged. I said I would make My anger to remain upon 
them and consume them; I will abolish their memorial 
from (among) the children of men: only that the wrath 
of the enemy would be condensed,* and the adversary 
make himself great, and would say: Our hand hath 
prevailed, and all this is not from the Lord. For they 
are a people that letteth counsel go, and there is no 
understanding in them. O that they were wise, that 
they had understanding in this, and would consider 
what will be in their end! How would one pursue a 
thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, unless the 
Mighty One had delivered them up, and the Lord had 
requited them ! 

For their strength is not as our Strength, and our 
enemies are the judges. Tor as the punisliment of the 
people of Sedom will their punishment be, and their 
stroke like (that) of the people of Amorah; their 
plagues will be evil as the heads of serpents, and the 
retribution of their works like their venom. As the 
poison of dragons is the cup of their punishment, and 
as the heads of the cruel basilisks. Are not all their 


* Or, “ gathered together.” 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 551‏ [,זנצצצ 


works manifest before Me, laid up in My treasures 
against the day of judgment? Their punishment is 
before Me, and I will repay; in the time of their dis- 
persion from their land ; for the day of their ruin draweth 
near, and that which is prepared for them maketh haste. 

For the Lord shall decide the judgment of His people, 
and the avengement of His righteous servants shall be 
avenged ; for it is seen before Him, that in the time 
when the stroke of their enemies would prevail against 
them, they will be wavering (as those who) are forsaken. 
And He will say: Where are their idols, the mighty 
things in which they had trusted, which did eat the fat of 
their sacrifices, and drink the wine of their libations ? 
Let them now rise up and help you, let them be a shield 
over you. See, now, that I, even I,am He, and there is 
no God beside Me. I kill and make alive, 1 wound 
but also heal, and there is none who can deliver out of 
My hand. For I have prepared in the heavens the 
abode of My Shekinah, and have said, 1 live for ever- 
more. When My sword is revealed like the sight of 
twofold lightning from one end of the heavens to 
another, and My hand taketh hold on judgment, I will 
render vengeance on My enemies, and My adversaries 
will I repay; I will make My arrows drunk with blood, 
and My sword shall slay the peoples, that by the blood 
of the slain, and the captives, 1 may take the crowns from 
the head of the foe and the enemy. 

Give praise, ye Gentiles, with His people, because 
the avengement of His righteous servants will have been 
made ; for He will bring retribution on them who hate 
Him, and will show mercy unto His land and His 
people. 

And Mosheh came and spake all the words of this 
hymn before the people, he and Jehoshua bar Nun. 
And Mosheh concluded to speak all these words with 


552 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [ouap. 


all Israel, and said to them, Set your heart upon all 
the words that I have witnessed to you this day, that 
you may instruct your children to observe and perform 
all the words of this law. For the word is not (given) 
in vain to you; it is your life, and by this word will 
you prolong your days upon the land which you pass 
over Jordan to inherit. 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh the same day, 
saying: Go up to this mountain of Abaraee, the moun- 
tain of Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, over against 
Jericho, and see the land of Kenaan which I have given 
to the sons of Israel for possession; and, dying on the 
mountain to which thou goest up, thou shalt be 
gathered to thy people, as Aharon thy brother died on 
Mount Hor, and was gathered to his people; because 
thou wast perverse with My Word in the midst of the 
children of Israel, at the Waters of Contradiction, at 
Rekem, in the desert of Zin, and because thou didst not 
sanctify Me among the children of Israel. For, though 
thou mayest see the land, yet from thence thou shalt 
not go in unto the land which I have given to the 
childreu of Israel. 

XXXII. And this is the benediction wherewith 
Mosheh, the prophet of the Lord, blessed the children 
of Israel before his death ; and he said: 

The Lord was revealed from Sinai, and the bright- 
ness of His glory appeared to us from Seir. He was 
revealed in His power upon the mountain of Pharan, 
and with Him were ten thousand saints; He gave us, 
written with His own right hand, the law from the 
midst of the fire. 

He loved the tribes, all the holy ones of the house of 
Israel ; with power He led them out of Mizraim, and 


they were conducted under Thy Cloud, they journeyed 
by Thy Word. 


XXXII] ON DEUTERONOMY. 533 


Mosheh gave to us the law, and delivered it an 
inheritance to the congregation of Jakob. And he was 
the king in Israel, when the heads of the people were 
gathered with the tribes of Israel. 

Let Reuben live in life eternal, and not die the second 
death; and let his children receive their inheritance 
according to their numbers. 

And of Jehudah he said this: Hear, O Lord, the 
prayer of Jehudah when he goeth forth to battle, and 
let him return to his people in peace; let his hands do 
vengeance upon his enemies, and be Thou to him a help 
against his foes, 

And of Levi he said: With perfections and lights + 
clothe Thou the man who is found holy before Thee ; 
whom Thou didst try in the temptation, and he was 
upright, and whom Thou didst prove at the Waters of 
Contention, and he was faithful. Who, when they had 
sinned, had no mercy in the judgment upon his father 
or his mother, and no respect to his brother or his 
children ; for they have kept the charge of Thy word, 
and Thy covenant have they not altered. These are 
worthy to teach Thy judgments unto Jakob, and Thy 
law unto Israel. They shall set the sweet incense 
before Thee, and the full free will offerings upon Thy 
altar. Bless, Lord, his substance, and the oblation of 
his hands receive Thou with favour; break the loins of 
his enemies and of his adversaries, that they may not 
arise. 

Of Benjamin he said: The beloved of the Lord shall 
dwell in safety by Him: the shield will be over him 
all the days, and the Shekinah will dwell in his 
land. 

And of Joseph he said: Blessed be his land from 
before the Lord; let it make fruit® by the dew of the 
+ Tummaia ve-uraia. 5 Magdanin, * rich fruit.” 
BB 


4 TARGUM OF ONKELOS [CHAP. 


heavens from above, and from the fountain springs, and 
the depths which flow from the abysses of the earth 
beneath, let it make fruit and produce which the sun 
causeth to grow; let it make fruit from the beginning 
of month after month; and first fruits from the moun- 
tain tops, and goodly things from the unfailing hills, 
with the good of the earth and its fulness, and the 
favour of Him whose glory is in the heavens, and 
who was revealed unto Mosheh at the Bush: let 
all these come upon the head of Joseph, and upon 
the man who was separated from his brethren. The 
greatuess of his children will be his beauty, and 
the mighty works wrought for him from before the 
Omnipotent and the Most High, by whose strength 
he will slay nations together unto the ends of the 
earth; and these are the myriads of the house of 
Ephraim, and these are the thousands of the house of 
Menasheh. 

And unto Zebulon he said: Rejoice, Zebulon, when 
thou goest out to war against thy adversaries, and thou, 
Issakar, when thou goest to compute the time of the 
festivals in Jerusalem. They shall assemble the tribes 
of Israel at the mountain of the sanctuary, to offer there 
the holy sacrifices with free will; for they will eat the 
victims of the Gentiles, and the treasures hidden in the 
sand shall be disclosed for them. 

And of Gad he said: Blessed is He who enlargeth 
Gad. He dwelleth asa lioness; he will kill sultans with 
kings: and he shall receive his own at the beginning: 
for there, in his inheritance, Mosheh the scribe-prince of 
Israel is (to be) buried; he who came out and went 
in at the head of the people, who hath wrought 
righteousness before the Lord and His judgments with 
Israel. 

And of Dan he said: Danis strong as a lion’s whelp ; 


XXXIV. | ON DEUTERONONY. 555 


his land is watered by the streams that flow from 
Mathnan. 

And of Naphtali he said: Naphtali, satisfied with 
favour and full of blessings from the Lord, shall inherit 
from the western sea, Genesar, unto the south. 

And of Asher he said: Blessed shall be Asher with 
the blessings of children: let him be acceptable to his 
brethren, and be nourished with the dainties of kings: 
strong shalt thou® be as iron and brass, and as the days 
of thy youth shall be thy strength. 

There is no God like the God of Israel, whose 
Shekinah in the skies is thy help, and whose power is in 
the heaven of heavens. The habitation of Eloha is from 
eternity, and the world was made by His Word; and 
He will drive out thy enemies from before thee, and will 
say, Destroy. 

And Israel shall dwell securely by themselves, accord- 
ing to the benediction with which Jakob their father 
blessed them in the land producing corn and wine; the 
heavens also above them shall drop down with dew. 

Happy art thou, Israel; none is like unto thee, a 
people whose salvation is from the Lord, who is the 
strength of thy help, and from whom is the might of thy 
victory: thy enemies shall be liars unto thee, and thou 
shalt tread upon the necks of their kings. 

XXXIV. And Mosheh went up from the plains of 
Moab to the mountains of Nebo, to the summit of the 
height which is over against Jericho; and the Lord 
showed him all the land of Gilead unto Dan, and all 
Naphtali, and the land of Ephraim and Menasheh, and 
all the land of Jehudah to the hinder sea, and the south, 
and the country of the plain of Jericho, the city of palm 
trees, unto Zoar. 

And the Lord said to him, This is the land which 1 


5 Some copies, “ Strong shall be thy dwelling, or seat,” mothabaka. 
ona 


556 TARGUM OF ONKELOS ON DEUTERONOMY. 


covenanted unto Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, saying, To 
thy children will I give it; thou hast seen it with thine 
eyes, but unto it thou art not to pass over. 

And Mosheh the servant of the Lord died there, in 
the land of Moab, by the Word of the Lord. 

And He buried him in a valley (or cavity, decheltha) 
in the land of Moab, over against Bethpeor: but no man 
knoweth his sepulchre unto this day. 

And Mosheh was a son of a hundred and twenty years 
when he died: his eye had not dimmed, neither was the 
radiance of his face changed. 

And the children of Israel wept for Mosheh in the 
fields of Moab thirty days; and the days of the mourning 
for Mosheh were completed. 

And Jehoshua bar Nun was filled with the spirit of 
wisdom; for Mosheh had laid his hands upon him, and 
the children of Israel obeyed him, and did as the Lord 
had commanded (by) Mosheh. 

But no prophet hath arisen in Israel like unto 
Mosheh, unto whom the Lord revealed Himself face to 
face, in all the signs and wonders which the Lord sent 
him to perform in the land of Mizraim upon Pharoh, and 
on all his servants, and on all his land, and all the 
Mighty Hand, and all the great manifestations which 
Mosheh wrought in the eyes of all Israel. 


END OF THE TARGUM OF ONKELOS 
ON THE TORAH. 


THE PALESTINIAN TARGUM 


ON THE 


SEPHHER HADDEBARIM, 


OR 


DEUTERONOMY. 


_ 


SECTION OF THE TORAH XLIV. 


TITLE DEBARIM. 


1. Tuusz are the words of admonition! which Mosheh 
spake with all Israel. He gathered them together to him 
while they were beyond the Jordan, and answered and 
said to them: 

Was it not in the wilderness at the mountain of Sinai 
that the law was given to you? and in the plains of 
Moab you were made to understand how many miracles 
and signs the Holy One, blessed be He, had wrought 
for you, from the time that you passed over the border 
of the Weedy Sea, where He made for you a way for 
every one of your tribes. But you declined from His 
word, and wrought provocation before Him, in Pharan, 
on account of the words of the spies, and put together 
lying words against Him, and murmured about the manna 
which He had made to come down for you, white from 
the heavens; in Hazeroth you demanded flesh, and made 


1 Or, “reproof.” 


558 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


yourselves deserving to perish from the midst of the 
world, but for the memory, on your behalf, of the merit 
of your righteous fathers, the tabernacle of ordinance, 
and the ark of the covenant, and the holy vessels which 
you had covered with pure gold, and made atonement 
for you on account of the sin of the golden calf. Itisa 
journey of eleven days (only) from Horeb by the way of 
Mount Gebal unto Rekem Giah; but because you 
declined and provoked the Lord to displeasure, you have 
been retarded forty years. 

And it was at the end of forty years, in the eleventh 
month, the month of Shebat, on the first of the month, 
that Mosheh spake with the sons of Israel according to 
all that the Lord had given him commandment for them. 

[Jerusatem. These are the words which Mosheh 
spake with all Israel, reproving them, while as yet they 
were situate beyond the Jordan. Mosheh answering 
said to them: Was it not in the wilderness at Mount 
Sinai, that the law was given to you? and on the plains 
of Moab was shown you what miracles and mighty acts 
the Word of the Lord had wrought on your behalf. 
When you stood by the Weedy Sea, the sea was divided 
before you, and there were made twelve ways? of one 
way, (a path) for each tribe. Yet you provoked Him at 
the sea, and rebelled at the Sea of Suph. On account 
of the matter of the spies who had been sent from the 
wilderness of Pharan, the decree (came forth) against 
you, that you should not enter into the land of Israel ; 
and for that of the manna, of which you said, Our soul 
is afflicted with this bread, whose eating is too light, the 
serpents were let loose upon you; and in Hazeroth, 
where your carcasses fell on account of the flesh, and 
concerning the calf that you had made, He would have 
spoken in His Word to destroy you, had He not been 


2 Or, ** streets.” 


1.[ אס‎ DEUTERONOMY. 559 


mindful of the covenant which He sware to your fathers, 
Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, and of the tabernacle of 
ordinance which you had made unto His name, and the 
ark of the covenant of the Lord, and of your burnt 
sacrifices in the midst (of the tabernacle and the ark) 
which you covered with purified gold. A journey of 
eleven days is it from Mount Horeb by way of Mount 
Gebal unto Rekem Giah; yet, because you sinned and 
provoked anger before Him, you have been delayed, and 
have been journeying for forty years. And it was at the 
end of forty years. | 

After He had smitten Sihon king of the Amorites, 
who dwelt in Heshbon, and Og the king of Mathnan, 
who dwelt at Astarvata in Edrehath, beyond Jordan, in 
the land of Moab, began Mosheh to speak the words of 
this law, saying: The Lord our God spake with us (and 
not I, of my own mind) in Horeb, saying: It is enough 
for you, and hath been profitable for you until this time 
(during) which you have received the law, and have 
made the tabernacle and its vessels, and appointed your 
princes over you; but now it would be evil for you to 
tarry longer at this mount. Turn you, and journey to 
Arad and Hormah, and go up to the mountain of the 
Amorites; and to the dwelling-places of Ammon, Moab, 
and Gebala, in the plains of the forests, in mountain 
and valley, and by the south on the shore of the sea, 
Ashkelon and Kiserin, the land of the Kenaanite unto 
Kaldohi, and Lebanon, the place of the mountain of the 
sanctuary, to the great river, the River Phrat. See, I 
have given up the inhabitants of the land before you; 
nor shall it be needful to carry arms; go in and possess 
the land, and appoint the allotters, and divide it, even as 
the Lord sware to your fathers, to Abraham, Izhak, and 
Jakob, that He would give it unto them and their sons 
after them. 


560 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


And I spake to you at that time, saying: We will 
not leave you with but one judge, for I am not able to 
bear you alone. The Word of the Lord our God hath 
multiplied you; and, behold, you are to-day as the stars 
of heaven for multitude. The Lord God of your fathers 
increase you a thousand fold on account of this my 
benediction, and bless you beyond numbering, as He 
hath said unto you. But how can J alone sustain the 
labour, your sensuality, your evil thoughts, your words 
of strife, your offering one shekel for two? Present, 
then, from among you wise men, prudent in their 
thinking, men of wisdom, by your tribes, and I will 
appoint them to be chiefs over you. And you answered 
me and said: The thing that thou hast spoken it is 
right for us to do. So I took the chiefs of your tribes, 
and moved them kindly with words; wise men, masters 
of knowledge, but prudent in their thoughts, 1 found 
not ;? and I appointed them chiefs over you, rabbans 
of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties; twelve thousand 
rabbans of tens, six myriads, officers of your tribes. 
And I charged your judges at that time with the orders 
of judgments, saying: So hear your brethren that one 
may not (be permitted to) speak all his words, while 
another is compelled to cut his words short; and so 
hearken to their words, as that it may be impossible for 
you not to judge them, and deliver judgment in truth, 
and to resolve (a matter) completely between a man 
and his brother, and between him who hireth words of 
litigation. You shall not have respect to persons in a 
judgment ; you shall hear little words as well as great 
ones, nor be afraid before the rich man and the ruler ; 
for a judgment is from before the Lord, and He seeth 
every secret. But the thing that is too hard for you 
bring to me, and I will hear it. And at that time 

5 Lo ashkachith, 


1.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 561 


1 taught you all the Ten Words which you are to prac- 
tise about judgments of money, and judgments of life. 
And we journeyed from Horeb, and came through all 
that great and fearful desert, where you saw serpents 
like boughs, and loathsome scorpions darting at you like 
arrows, on the way of the mountain of the Amoraah, as 
the Lord our God had commanded us, and came to 
Rekem Giah. And I said to you, Ye are come to the 
mountain of the Amoraah, which the Lord our God will 
give tous. Behold, the Lord our God hath given you 
the land; arise and possess it, as the Lord your God hath 
told you; fear not, nor be dismayed (broken). And all 
of you came to me in a body, and said, We will send 
men before us to examine the land for us, and bring us 
back word by what way we shall go up to it, and the 
cities we should enter. And the thing was proper in my 
eyes; and I took from vou twelve chosen men, one man 
for a tribe, and they turned and went up into the moun- 
tain, and came to the stream of Ethkela, and explored 
it, (JERUSALEM. And they prepared and went up into 
the mountain, and came to the stream of the Grapes, and 
surveyed it.] And they took in their hands of the produce 
of the land and brought to us. And they returned us 
word; and Kaleb and Jehoshua said, The land which the 
Lord our God hath given us is good. But you were not 
willing to go up, but believed the words of the ten 
wicked ones, and rebelled against the Word of the Lord 
your God. And you cried in your teuts, taking your 
sons and your daughters to your breasts, saying, Woe to 
you, ye stricken ones! to-morrow ye will be slain. Why 
hath the Lord hated us, to have brought us out of the 
land of Mizraim, to deliver us into the hand of the 
Amorites to destroy us? How shall we go up? Our 
brethren have dissolved our hearts, saying, The people 
are greater and mightier than we; their cities are vast, 
2B 8 


562 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (cHaP. 


and walled to the height of heaven, and we saw there 
also the sons of Ephron the giant. 

And I said to you, Be not broken down, nor be afraid 
of them: the Word of the Lord your God who goeth 
before you will Himself fight for you, according to all 
that He did for you in Mizraim before your eyes. And 
in the desert, where thou sawest burning serpents full of 
deadly venom, the Lord thy God bare thee with the 
glorious clouds of His Shekinah, as a man carrieth his 
child, all the way that you went, until you have come to 
this place. But in this thing you believed not in the 
Word of the Lord your God, who led before you in the 
way® to prepare for you the place of your encampments, 
in the pillar of fire by night to light you in the way you 
should go, and in the pillar of the cloud by day. And 
the voice of your words was heard before the Lord, and 
He was displeased, and did make oath, saying, If any one 
of the men of this evil generation shall see the good land 
which I covenanted to give unto their fathers, except 
Kaleb bar Jephunneh, who shall see it, and to whom I 
will give the good land, the land of Hebron through 
which he walked, and to his children, because he hath 
followed with integrity the fear of the Lord. Against 
me also was there displeasure before the Lord on your 
account, saying, Thou too art not to go in thither; 
Jehoshua bar Nun, who ministereth in thy house of 
instruction, he is to go in thither: strengthen him, for 
he is to make Israel possess it. But your little ones, of 
whom you said, They will be for prey, and your children, 
who as yet know not between good and evil, they shall 
go in thither: I will give it to them, and they shall 
possess it for an inheritance. As for you, turn, and go 
(back) into the wilderness by the way of the Weedy Sea. 
Then answered you, and said to me, We have sinned 

3 Compare Glossary, p. 16. 


11.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 563 


before the Lord; we will go up and fight, according to 
all that the Lord our God commanded us. And you 
girded on every man his arms, and began to ascend the 
mountain. But the Lord said to me, Say to them, Go 
not up, nor prepare for battle, for My Shekinah goeth 
not among you; that you be not crushed before your 
enemies. And I spake with you, but you would not 
obey, but were rebellious against the Word of the Lord, 
and did wickedly, and went up to the mountain. And 
the Amoraah who dwelt in that mountain came out to 
meet you, and pursued you, as they drive away and 
destroy hornets, and smote you from Gebal unto 
Hormah. [Jurusarem. And they chased you as bees 
are chased, and slew you in Gebal unto destruction. ] 
And you returned, and wept before the Lord: but the 
Lord would not receive your prayers, nor hearken to 
your words. So you abode in Rekem many days, 
according to the days that you abode. 

II. And turning we journeyed into the wilderness, 
by the way of the Sea of Suph, as the Lord had bidden 
me, and we compassed Mount Gebal many days. And 
the Lord spake to me, saying: It is enough for you to 
have dwelt about this mountain: turn you to the north, 
and command the people, saying, You are to pass by the 
border of your brethren, the children of Esau, who dwell 
in Gebala, and they will be afraid of you ; be very heed- 
ful therefore ; provoke them not; for of their land 1 
have not given you as much as the sole of the foot ; for 
I have given Mount Gebal an inheritance unto Esau on 
account of the honour which he did unto his father. 
You shall buy fresh provision of them for silver, that 
you may eat, and water shall you buy with silver, to 
drink. Be careful that you vex them not: for the Lord 
your God hath blessed you in all the works of your 
hands, he hath supplied your wants in thy journeying 


564 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


in the great wilderness; these forty years hath the Word 
of the Lord your God been your helper; you have not 
wanted anything. 

So we passed by our brethren the sons of Esau, who 
dwell in Gebala, from Elath and the fortress of 
Tarnegola, and turned and went by the way of the 
wilderness of Moab. [Jerusatem. So we passed by 
our brethren the sons of Esau, who dwell in Gebala, 
by the way of the plain from Elath and from the fortress 
of Tarnegola, and we turned and went by the way of 
the wildemess of Moab.] And the Lord spake to me, 
saying: Thou shalt not aggrieve the Moabaee, nor make 
war against them; for I have not given you their land 
to inherit, because I have given Lachaiath for a 
possession to the children of Lot. The Emthanaia 
dwelt in it of old, a people great and many, and mighty 
as the giants. The giants* who dwelt in the plain of 
Geyonbere were also reputed as the giants who perished 
in the Flood; but the Moabites called them Emethanee.® 
And in Gebala dwelt the Genosaia in old times, and the 
Beni Esau drave them out and destroyed them, and 
dwelt in their place; as did Israel in the land of their 
inheritance, which the Lord gave to them. Now arise, 
and pass over the stream of Tarvaja. -And we crossed 
the stream of Tarvaja. And the 085 in which (from 
the time) we came from Rekem Giah till we crossed the 
stream of Tarvaja, were thirty and eight years, until all 
the generation of the men of war were wasted out from 
the camp, as the Lord had sworn to them. Buta plague 
also from the Lord had scourged them to consume them 
from the host, until they were brought to an end. 

And when all the men of war, the makers of the high 
places, were consumed by dying out of the host, the 
Lord spake with me, saying: You are this day to pass 

+ Gibbaraia, Heb., Rephaim, * Or, Emthanee, “ Formidable.” 


11.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 565 


the border of Moab towards Lechaiath. But coming 
near over against the children of Ammon, you are not 
to vex, nor provoke them to war; for I have not given 
you the land of the Beni Ammon for a possession: I 
have given it an inheritance to the children of Lot, for 
the sake of Abraham’s righteousness. That also was 
accounted a land of giants; in old time the giants 
dwelt in it, and the Ammonites called them Zimthanee, 
a people great and mighty as giants: but the Word of 
the Lord destroyed them, and drave them out before 
them, and they dwelt in their place; as He did for the 
Beni Esau who dwell in Seir: for He destroyed the 
Horaee before them, and drave them out, and they 
dwell in their place to this day. And the rest of the 
escaped of the Kenaanah which dwelt in the cities of 
Dephia to Gaza, the Kapotkaee who came out of Kapot- 
kaia destroyed them, and dwelt in their place. Arise, 
take your journey, and pass over the river Arnona; 
behold, I have delivered into your hands Sihon the 
king of Heshbon and the Amoraah, and his land: 
begin to drive them out, and to provoke him to wage 
war. To-day I will begin to put thy terror and fear 
upon the faces of all the peoples which are under the 
whole heavens, who shall hear the report of thy virtue, 
that the sun and moon have stood still, and have ceased 
from speaking (their) song for the space of a day and a 
half, standing still in their habitation until thou hadst 
done battle with Sihon ; and they will shiver and tremble 
before thee. 

And I sent messengers from Nehardea, which is by 
the wilderness of Kedemoth, to Sihon king of the 
Amorites, with words of peace, saying, I would pass 
through thy land; by the way which is the beaten road 
will I go; I will not turn aside to do thee harm on the 
right hand or the left. I will buy fresh provision with 


566 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cuap. 


silver, to eat, and thou shalt give me water for silver, 
to drink ; I will only pass through: as the Beni Esau, 
who dwell in Gebal, and the Moabaee, who dwell in 
Lechaiath, have done to me, until the time that I pass 
over the Jordan into the land which the Lord our God 
giveth us. But Sihon the king of Heshbon was not 
willing to allow us to pass through his borders; for the 
Lord our God had hardened the form of his spirit, and 
made his heart obstinate, to deliver him into thy hand 
as at this day. And the Lord said to me, See, within 
the space of a sun and a moon I have begun to deliver 
Sihon and his country into thy hand; begin thou to 
cast him out, to inherit his land. 

And Sihon came out to meet us, he and all his people, 
to do battle at Jehaz. And the Lord our God delivered 
him up before us, and we smote him, and his children, 
and all his people. And we subdued all his cities at 
that time, and destroyed all the towns, the men, women, 
and children, we left none to escape; only the cattle 
took we for prey, and the spoil of the towns which we 
subdued. From Aroer, on the bank of the river Arnona, 
and the city which is built in the midst of the river, 
even unto Gilead, there was no city too strong for us, 
the Lord our God gave all of them up before us. Only 
to the land of the children of Ammon we went not 
nigh, nor to any place on the river Jobeka, nor to the 
cities of the mountain, according to all that the Lord 
our God had commanded us. 

III. And turning, we went up by the way of Mathnan : 
and Og the king of Mathnan came out to meet us, he 
and all his people, to give battle in Edrehath. And the 
Lord said to me, Fear him not; for into thy hand I 
have delivered him, and all his people, and his land; 
and thou shalt do to him as thou hast done to Sihon 
king of the Amoraah, who dwelt in Heshbon. [Jzrv- 


111. ] ON DEUTERONOMY. 567 


sALEM. When Mosheh saw that wicked one, he trembled 
before him, and said, Is not this he who did scoff at our 
father Abraham and Sarah, and said to them, Ye are 
like trees planted by a fountain of water, but ye bear no 
fruit? Therefore did the Holy One, blessed be He, and 
let His Name be glorified, cause him to wait, and pro- 
long him many years alive, to show to him the generations, 
because He would deliver him into the hands of his 
(Abraham’s) children : therefore the Word of the Lord 
said to Mosheh, Be not afraid of him, for into thy hand 
have I given him up, and all his people, and his land, 
and thou shalt do to him as thou hast done to Sihon 
king of the Amoraee, who dwelt in Heshbon.] And 
the Lord our God gave up into our hands Og the king 
of Mathnan, and all his people; and we smote him till 
no remnant remained to him. And we subdued all his 
cities at that time, there was no city which we took not 
from them, sixty cities, the whole boundary of Targona,® 
the kingdom of Og in Mathnan. All these cities were 
fortified, surrounded with high walls, shut up with gates 
and bars; besides open towns very many. [JERU- 
saLeM. All these cities were fortified, surrounded with 
high walls, with gates and bars.] And we utterly 
destroyed their cities: as we did to Sihon king of 
Heshbon, so destroyed we with every city the men, 
women, and children. But all the cattle, and the prey 
of the cities, we made a spoil for ourselves. And at 
that time we took from the power of the two kings of 
the Amorites the land beyond the Jordan, from the 
streams of Arnona unto Mount Hermon. The Sidonaee 
call Hermon the fruit-producing Mount,’ but the 
Amoraee call it the Snowy Mountain,® because the snow 


6 Trachonitis, from rpaxvs, “ rough or rocky.” 
7 Or, “the mount whose productions are fruits.” 
8 Tor Talga. So the present Arab name, Jebel Thelj. 


568 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


never ceases from it either in summer or winter. [JE- 
RusaLEM. The Sidonaee call Hermon the fruit-producing 
land, but the Amoraee call it the land which multiplies 
the fruits of the tree.] All the cities of the plain, and 
al] Gilead, and all Mathnan, unto Selukia and Edrehi, 
cities of the kingdom of Og in Mathnan. For only Og 
king of Mathnan remained of the remnant of the giants 
who perished in thedeluge. Behold, his bedstead was a 
bedstead of iron; behold, it is placed in the archive-house 
in Rabbath, of the Beni Ammon, nine cubits its length, 
and four cubits its breadth, in the cubit of his own 
(stature). [Jerusatem. Is it not placed in the citadel 
of the Beni Ammon?] And this land which we took in 
possession at that time, from Aroer unto the border of 
the river, and half of Mount Gilead, and the cities, I 
have given to the tribe of Reuben and Gad; but the 
remaining part of Gilead, and all Mathnan, the king- 
dom of Og, I have given to the half tribe of Menasheh ; 
all the limit of the region of Targona, and all Mathnan, 
which is called the land of the giants. 

And Jair bar Menasheh took the whole limit of the 
region of Targona, unto the limit of Korze and Anti- 
kiros, [Jerusatem. All the limit of Atarkona, unto 
the limit of the city of Aphikeras,] and called them by 
his own name Mathnan, the towns of Jair, unto this 
day. But I gave Gilead to Makir. To the tribe 
Reuben and the tribe Gad have I given from Gilead to 
the river Arnona, half of the valley and its limit, unto 
the stream of Jubeka on the limit of the children of 
Ammon, the plain also, the Jordan, the boundary from 
Genesar to the sea of the plain, and the city of Tebaria, 
which is by the Sea of Salt, the limit of the outflow of 
waters from the heights of the east. (JenusaLem. The 
plain, the Jordan, and the limit from Ginosar to the 
sea of the plain, the Sea of Salt, under the place of the 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 569‏ [,צנז 


pouring forth of ashes from the east.] And I com- 
manded you, the tribe of Reuben, and of Gad, and the 
half tribe of Meuasheh, at that time, saying: The Lord 
your God hath given this land to you to possess it; but 
you are to go over armed before your brethren, every 
one girded for the host. Only your wives, your children, 
and your cattle, (for I know that you have much cattle,) 
shall abide in your cities which I have given you, until 
the time when the Lord will have given rest to your 
brethren as to you, that they also may possess that land 
which the Lord your God hath conferred upon you; 
then shall you return every one to his inheritance which 
1 have given you. 

And I instructed Jehoshua at that time, saying: 
Thine eyes have seen all that the Lord thy God hath 
done to these two kings; so will the Lord do unto all 
the kingdoms to which thou art passing over. Fear 
them not, for the Word of the Lord your God fighteth 
for you. 


SECTION XLV. 
VAETHCHANAN. 


I sought mercy at that time from before the Lord,‏ פא ב 
saying: I supplicate compassion before Thee, O Lord‏ 
God: Thou hast begun to show unto Thy servant Thy‏ 
greatness, and the power of Thy mighty hand; for Thou‏ 
art God, and there is none beside Thee; for Thy glory‏ 
dwelleth in the heavens on high, and Thou rnlest upon‏ 
the earth; there is none who can work according to Thy‏ 
working or Thy power. [Jerusatem. And I prayed‏ 
and sought mercy in that hour, said Mosheh, saying :‏ 


570 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


I supplicate compassion before Thee, O Lord God ; 
Thou hast begun.] Let me, 1 pray, pass over and see 
the good land that is beyond Jordan, that goodly moun- 
tain on which is builded the city of Jerusalem, and 
Mount Lebanon, where the Shekinah will dwell. But 
the Lord was displeased with me on your account, and 
received not my prayer; but the Lord said to me: Let 
it be enough for thee; speak not before Me again of 
this matter: go up to the head of the mountain, and lift 
up thine eyes to the west, to the north, to the south, 
and to the east, and behold with thy eyes, for thou shalt 
not pass over this Jordan. But instruct Jehoshua, 
strengthen and confirm him; for he shall go over before 
this people, and give them the inheritance of the land 
which thou seest. And we dwelt in the valley, weeping 
for our sins, because we had been joined with the 
worshippers of the idol of Peor. [Jerusateu. And we 
dwelt in the valley weeping for our guilt, and confessing 
our sins, for that we had been joined with the worshippers 
of the idol of Baal Peor. ] 

IY. And now, Israel, hear the statutes and judgments 
which I teach you to do, that you may live, and go in 
and inherit the land the Lord God of your fathers giveth 
you. Ye shall not add to the words that I teach you 
nor diminish them, but keep the commandments of the 
Lord your God which I command you. 

Your eyes have seen what the Word of the Lord hath 
done to the worshippers of the idol Peor: for all the 
men who went astray after the idol Peor, the Lord thy 
God hath destroyed from among you; but you who have 
cleaved to the worship of the Lord your God are alive 
all of you this day. See, I teach you statutes and 
judgments, as the Lord God hath taught me, that you 
may so do in the land which you are entering to possess 
it. So shall you observe and perform the law ; for it is 


1v.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 571 


your wisdom and understanding in the sight of the 
peoples, who will hear all these statutes, and will say : 
How wise and intelligent is this great people! For what 
people so great, to whom the Lord is so high in the 
Name of the Word of the Lord? But the custom of 
(other) nations is to carry their gods upon their shoulders, 
that they may seem to be nigh them; but they cannot 
hear with their ears, (be they nigh or) be they afar of; 
but the Word of the Lord sitteth upon His throne high 
and lifted up, aud heareth our prayer what time we 
pray before Him and make our petitions. [JerusaLEu. 
For what people is so great, rho hath God so nigh to it 
as the Lord our God is, in every hour that we cry unto 
Him, and He answereth us? ] And what people have 
statutes and right judgments according to all this law 
which I order before you this day? Only take heed to 
yourselves and diligently keep your souls, lest you forget 
the things which you beheld with your eyes at Sinai, 
and that they depart not from thy heart all the days of 
thy life, and you may teach them to your children, and 
to your children’s children; and that you may make 
yourselves pure in your transactions thereby, as in the 
day when you stood before the Lord your God at Horeb, 
at the time when the Lord said to me: Gather the 
people before Me, that they may hear My words, by 
which they shall learn to fear before Me all the days 
that they remain upon the earth, and may teach their 
children. And you drew near, and stood at the lower 
part of the mount, and the mountain burned with fire, 
and its flame went up to the height of the heavens, with 
darkness, clouds, and shadows. And the Lord spake 
with you on the mountain from the midst of the fire: 
you heard the voice of the word, but you saw no like- 
ness, but only a voice speaking. And He proclaimed to 
you His covenant which He commanded you to per- 


572 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


form; Ten Words which He wrote upon sapphire 
tablets. 

And the Lord commanded me at that time to teach 
you the statutes and judgments, that you may do them 
in the land which you pass over to possess. Keep then 
your souls diligently ; for you saw no likeness on the day 
when the Lord spake with you in Horeb from the midst 
of the fire. Be admonished, lest you corrupt your 
works, and make to you an image or likeness of any 
idol, the likeness either male or female of any beast 
of the earth, of any winged bird that 1102 in the 
air in the expanse of heaven, of any reptile on the 
ground, or of any fish in the waters under the earth. 
[Jerusatem. The likeness of any fishes which are in 
the waters under the earth.] And lest, when you lift 
up your eyes to the height of the heavens, and gaze at 
the sun, or the moon, and the principal stars of all the 
hosts of the heavens, you go astray, and adore and serve 
them; for the Lord your God hath by them distributed 
(or divided) the knowledge of all the peoples that are 
under the whole heavens. For you hath the Word of 
the Lord taken for His portion, and hath brought you 
out from the iron furnace of Mizraim to be unto Him a 
people of inheritance as at this day. [Jerusatem. To 
be a people beloved as a treasure in this day.] 

But against me was displeasure before the Lord on 
account of your words, because you had murmured for 
the water; and He sware that I should not pass the 
Jordan, nor go into the land which the Lord your God 
giveth you to inherit. But I must die in this land; I 
am not to pass over Jordan; but you will pass over and 
possess the inheritance of that good land. Beware, then, 

5 That is, according to some Jewish commentators, He has revealed 


Himself to the Gentiles mediately, by the display of His works, but to 
Israel iminediately by His Word. Compare the nest clause. 


tv. |} ON DEUTERONOMY. 573 


that you forget not the covenant of the Lord your God 
which He hath confirmed with you, or make to you an 
image, the likeness of any thing of which the Lord your 
God hath commanded that you should not make it. 
For the Word of the Lord your God is a consuming 
fire; the jealous God is a fire, and He avengeth Him- 
self in jealousy. [JERusaLeu. For the Lord your God 
is a consuming fire; the jealous God is a fire, and He 
avengeth Himself in jealousy. ] 

Tf, when thou wilt have begotten children and chil- 
dren’s children, and wilt have grown old in the land, 
you corrupt your works, and make to you an image or 
any likeness, and do that which is evil before the Lord 
to provoke Him; I attest against you this day the 
sworn witnesses of the heavens and the earth, that 
perishing you wil] perish swiftly from the land to 
possess which you pass the Jordan: you will not 
lengthen out days upon it, but will be utterly destroyed. 
And the Lord will scatter you among the Gentiles, and 
you will remain as a little people with the nations among 
whom the Lord will disperse you in captivity. And 
there will you be constrained to serve the worshippers of 
idols, the work of men’s hands, of wood and stone, 
which see not, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell. But if 
there you seek to return to the fear of the Lord your 
God, you shall find mercy, when you seek before Him with 
all your heart and with all your soul. When you suffer 
oppression, and all these things come upon you in the 
end of the days, and you be converted to the fear of the 
Lord your God, and obey His Word; for the Lord our 
God is a merciful God; He will not forsake you, nor 
destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers 
which He sware unto them. 

For ask now the generations which have been from the 
days of the beginning, which have been before thee from 


574 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (CHAP. 


the day when the Lord created man upon the earth, from 
one end of the heavens to the other, whether so great a 
thing as this hath been, or any like to it hath been 
heard? Hath it ever been that a people should hear 
the voice of the Word of the Lord, the Living God, 
speaking from the midst of fire, as you heard, and 
remained alive? Or, as the wonder which the Lord 
hath wrought, revealing Himself to separate a people to 
Himself from among another people, by signs, by 
miracles, by portents, by the victories of ordered battles, 
by an uplifted arm, and by great visions, like all that 
the Lord our God hath done for us in Mizraim, and 
your eyes beholding? (Jervsatem. Or what is the 
people or kingdom that hath heard ?...... Or the signs 
which the Word of the Lord hath wrought, coming to 
announce (that He would separate) to Himself a people 
from among a people ?] Unto thee have these wonders 
been shown, that thou mayest know that the Lord is 
God, and there is none beside Him. He made you 
hear the voice of His Word from the heavens on high, 
to give you discipline by His doctrine, and showed thee 
upon earth 1115 great fire, and made thee hear His words 
from the midst of the flame. And because He loved 
thy fathers Abraham and Izhak, therefore hath He plea- 
sure in the children of Jakob after him, and hath 
brought you in His lovingkindness and power from 
Mizraim, to drive out nations greater and stronger than 
you from before you, and give you their land to inherit 
as at this day. Know therefore to-day, and set your 
heart upon it, that the Lord is God, whose Shekinah 
dwelleth in the heavens above, and reigneth on the 
earth beneath, neither is there any other beside Him. 
Therefore observe His covenant, and the commandments 
which I command you this day, that He may do good 
to you and to your children after you, and that you 


v.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 575 


may have continuance upon the land which the Lord 
your God giveth you for all days. 

And now, behold, Mosheh set apart three cities 
beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise, that the man- 
slayer who had killed his neighbour without intention, 
not having hated him yesterday or before, may flee, 
and escape into one of those cities, and be spared alive. 
(Jervsateu. Who had slain his neighbour unawares, 
but had not entertained enmity toward him yesterday or 
before.]}  Kevatirin in the wilderness, in the plain 
country, for the tribe of Reuben, and Ramatha in Gilead 
for the tribe of Gad, and Dabera in Mathnan for the 
tribe of Menasheh. This is the declaration of the law 
which Mosheh set in order before the sons of Israel, 
{JervsaLeM. This is the declaration of the law which 
Mosheh set before the sons of Israel,] and the statutes 
and judgments which Mosheh spake with the sons of 
Israel at the time when they had come out of Mizraim. 
And Mosheh delivered them beyond Jordan over against 
Beth Peor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amoraee, 
who dwelt in Heshbon, whom Mosheh and the sons of 
Israel smote when they had come out of Mizraim. And 
they took possession of his land and the land of Og 
king of Mathnan, the two kings of the Amoraee, who 
were beyond the Jordan, eastward, from Aroer on the 
bank of the river Arnon to the mountain of Saion, which 
is the Snowy Mount; [Jervsatem. From Lechaiath, 
on the side of the river Arnona, unto the mountain whose 
fruits are delivered, which is the Snowy Mount;] and 
all the plain beyond Jordan, eastward, unto the sea that 
is in the plain under the spring of the heights. 

V. And Mosheh called all Israel, and said to them: 
Hear, Israel, the statutes and judgments that I speak 
before you this day, to learn them, and observe to per- 

1 Beketuph, “ by, ov over, the shoulder.” 


576 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


form them. The Lord our God confirmed a covenant 
with us in Horeb: not with our fathers did the Lord 
confirm this covenant, but with us, who are all of us 
here this day alive and abiding. Word to word did the 
Lord speak with you at the mountain from the midst of 
the fire. I stood between the Word of the Lord and 
you at that time, to declare to you the Word of the Lord, 
because you were afraid before the voice of the Word of 
the Lord, which you heard from the midst of the fire ; 
neither did you go up to the mountain while He said: 
Sons of Israel, My people, 1 am the Lord your God, who 
made and led you out free from the land of Mizraim, 
from the house of the bondage of slaves. Sons of Israel, 
My people, no other god shall you have beside Me. 
You shall not make to you an image or the likeness of 
anything which is in the heavens above, or in the earth 
below, or in the waters under the earth: thou shalt not 
worship them or do service before them; for I am the 
Lord your God, a jealous and avenging God, taking 
vengeance in jealousy; remembering the sins of wicked 
fathers upon rebellious children to the third genera- 
tion and to the fourth of them that hate Me, when 
the children complete to sin after their fathers; but 
keeping mercy and bounty for a thousand generations 
of the righteous who love Me and keep My mandates 
and My laws. Sons of Israel, My people, no one of you 
shall swear by the Name of the Word of the Lord your 
God in vain: for the Lord, in the day of the great 
judgment, will not acquit any one who shall swear by 
His Name in vain. Sons of Israel, My people, observe 
the day of Sabbath, to sanctify it according to all that 
the Lord your God hath commanded. Six days you 
shall Jabour and do all your work, but the seventh day 
(shall be for) rest and quiet before the Lord your God; 
ye shall do no work, neither you, nor your sons, nor 


v.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 577 


your daughters, nor your servants, nor your handmaids, 
nor your oxen, your asses, nor any of your cattle, nor 
your sojourners who are among you; that your servants 
and handmaids may have repose as well as you. And 
remember that you were servants in the land of Mizraim, 
and that the Lord your God delivered and led yon out 
with a strong hand and uplifted arm ; therefore the Lord 
thy God hath commanded thee to keep the Sabbath day. 
Sons of Israel, My people, be every one mindful of the 
honour of his father and his mother, as the Lord your 
God hath commanded you, that your days may be pro- 
longed, and it may be well with you in the land which 
the Lord your God giveth you. Sons of Israel, My 
people, you shall not murder, nor be companions or par- 
ticipators with those who do murder, nor shall there be 
seen in the congregations of Israel (those who have part) 
with murderers; that your children may not arise after 
you, and teach their own (to have part) with murderers ; 
for because of the guilt of murder the sword cometh 
forth upon the world. 

Sons of Israel, My people, you shall not be adulterers, 
nor companions of, or have part with, adulterers; neither 
shall there be seen in the congregations of Israel (those 
who have part) with adulterers, and that your children 
may uot arise after you, and teach theirs also to be with 
adulterers ; for through the guilt of adulteries the 
plague cometh forth upon the world. Sons of Israel, 
My people, you shall not be thieves, nor be companions 
nor have fellowship with thieves, nor shall there be seen 
in the congregations of Israel (those who have part) with 
thieves ; for because of the guilt of robberies famine 
cometh forth on the world. Sons of Israel, My people, 
you shall not bear false witness, nor be compavions or 
have fellowship with the bearers of false testimony; 
neither shall there be seen in the congregations of Israel 

cc 


578 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


those who (have part) with false witnesses ; for because 
of the guilt of false witnesses the clouds arise, but the 
rain does not come down, and dearth cometh on the 
world. Sons of Israel, My people, you shall not be 
covetous, nor be companions or have fellowship with the 
covetous ; neither shall there be seen in the congregations 
of Israel any who (have part) with the covetous ; that 
your children may not arise after you, and teach their 
own to be with the covetous. Nor let any one of you 
desire his neighbour’s wife, nor luis field, nor his servant, 
nor his handmaid, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything 
that belongeth to his neighbour ; for because of the guilt 
of covetousness the government (madkutha) seizeth upon 
men’s property to take it away, and bondage cometh or 
the world. 

These words spake the Lord with all your congrega- 
tion at the mount, from the midst of the fiery cloud and 
tempest, with a great voice which was not limited; and 
the voice of the Word was written upon two tables of 
marble, and He gave them unto me. But when you had 
heard the voice of the Word from the midst of the dark- 
ness, the mountain burning with fire, the chiefs of your 
tribes and your sages drew nigh to me, and said, Behold, 
the Word of the Lord our God hath showed us His 
glorious Shekinah, and the greatness of His excellency, 
(tushbachterh, His magnificence,) and the voice of His 
Word have we heard out of the midst of the fre. This 
day have we seen that the Lord speaketh with a man in 
whom is the Holy Spirit, and he remaineth alive. But 
now why should we die? For this great fire will devour 
us; if we again hear the voice of the Word of the Lord 
our God, we shall die. For who, of all the offspring of 
flesh, hath heard the voice of the Word of the Living 
God speaking from amid the fire as we, and hath lived ? 
Go thou nigh, and hear all that the Lord our God shall 


VI. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 579 


say, and speak thou with us all that the Lord our God 
will say to thee, and we will hearken and will do. And 
the voice of your words was heard before the Lord 
when you spake with me, and the Lord said to me, All 
the words of this people which they have spoken with 
thee are heard before Me ; all that they have said is 
good. O that the disposition of their heart were perfect 
as this willingness is to fear Me and to keep all My 
commandments all days, that it may be well with them 
and with their children for ever! ([Jerusateu. O that 
they may have this good heart!] Now therefore be 
separate from thy wife, that with the orders above thou 
mayest stand before Me, and I will speak with thee the 
commandments, statutes, and judgments, which thou 
shalt teach them to perform in the land that I give you 
to inherit. And now observe to do as the Lord your 
God hath commanded you; decline not to the right 
hand or to the left. Walk in all the way which the 
Lord your God commandeth you, that you may live and 
do well, and lengthen out days in the land you shall 
inherit. 

VI. And this is the declaration of the commandments, 
the statutes, and the judgments which the Lord your 
God hath commanded (me) to teach you to perform in the 
land to which you pass over to inherit; that thou mayest 
fear the Lord thy God, and keep all His statutes and pre- 
cepts which I command thee; thou, thy son, and the son 
of thy son, all the days of thy life; and that thou mayest 
prolong thy days. Hearken then, Israel, to keep and to 
do, that it may be well with thee, and you may increase 
greatly, as the Lord God of thy fathers hath spoken to 
thee, (that) He will give thee a land whose fruits are 
rich as milk, and sweet as honey. [Jerusatem. A land 
producing good fruits, pure as milk, sweet and tasty as 


honey. | 
9 a Q 


580 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


It was, when the time came that our father Jakob 
should be gathered out of the world, he was anxious lest 
there might be an idolater among his sons. He called 
them, and questioned them, Is there such perversity in 
your hearts? They answered, all of them together, and 
said to him: Hear, IsrarL our raTHER: THE Lorp 
our Gop 1s פאס‎ Lorp! Jakob made response, and 
said, Blessed be His Glorious Name for ever and ever. 
[JenusaLem. When the end had come to our father 
Jakob, that he should be taken up from the world, he 
called the twelve tribes, his sons, and gathered them 
round his couch. Then Jakob our father rose up, and 
said to them, Do you worship any idol that Terah the 
father of Abraham worshipped? do you worship any 
1001 that Laban (the brother of his mother) worshipped ? 
or worship you the God of Jakob? The twelve tribes 
answered together, with fulness of heart, and said, Hear 
now, Israel our father: The Lord our God is one 
Lord. Jakob responded and said, May His Great 
Name be blessed for ever !] 

Mosheh the prophet said to the people of the house 
of Israel, Follow after the true worship of your fathers, 
that you may love the Lord your God with each dis- 
position of your hearts, and also that He may accept 
your souls, and the (dedicated) service of all your wealth ; 
and let these words which I command you this day be 
written upon the tables of vour hearts. And thou shalt 
unfold them to thy children, and meditate upon them 
when thou art sitting in your houses, at the time when 
you are occupied in secret chambers, or in journeying by 
the way; at evening when you lie down, and at morn 
when you arise. And you shall bind them as written 
signs upon thy left hand, and they shall be for tephillin 
upon thy forehead over thine eyes. And thou shalt 


DEUTERONOMY. 581‏ אס [.חוּ 


write them upon the pillars, and affix them in three 
places, against the cupboard,? upon the posts of thy 
house, and on the right hand of thy gate, in thy going 
out. 

And when the Lord thy God hath brought, thee into 
the land which he promised to Abraham, Izhak, and 
Jakob, thy fathers, to give thee cities great and goodly 
which thou didst not toil in building, houses also, 
filled with all good, which thou wast not occupied in 
filling, and hewn cisterns in hewing which thou didst not 
labour, vineyards and olives with planting which thou 
wast not wearied; and when thou hast eaten and art 
satisfied, beware lest you forget the fear of the Lord 
your God, who delivered and led you out free from the 
land of Mizraim, from the house of the affliction of 
slaves ; but fear the Lord your God, and worship before 
Him, and swear by the Name of the Word of the Lord 
in truth. You shall not go after the idols of the 
Gentiles, the idols of the peoples who are round about 
you: for the Lord our God is a jealous God, and an 
Avenger, whose Shekinah dwelleth in the midst of you; 
lest the anger of the Lord your God be kindled against 
you, and He quickly destroy you from the face of the 
earth. Sons of Israel, my people, be warned not to 
tempt the Lord your God as you tempted Him in the 
ten temptations; keeping keep the commandments of 
the Lord your God, and His testimonies and statutes 
which He hath commanded you; and do what is good 
and right before the Lord, that it may be well with you, 
and ye may go in, and possess by inheritance the good 
land which the Lord covenanted to your fathers; that 
He may drive out all thy enemies before thee, as the 
Lord hath said. 

When thy son, in time to come, shall ask thee, say- 


2 Or, “repository,” dekey, 2. €., theca. 


582 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHar. 


ing, What are the testimonies, statutes, and judgments 
which the Lord our God hath commanded you? then 
shall you say to your sons, We were servants to Pharoh 
in Mizraim, and the Word of the Lord brought us out 
of Mizraim with a mighty hand; and the Word of the 
Lord wrought signs, great wonders, and sore plagues 
on Mizraim and on Pharoh and all the men of his 
house, which our eyes beheld; but us He led forth free 
to bring us in and give us the land which He sware to 
our fathers. And the Lord commanded us to perform 
all these statutes, that we may fear the Lord our God 
for good to us in all days, that He may preserve us alive 
as at the time of this day; and (the reward of ( nighteous- 
ness will be reserved for us in the world to come, if we 
keep all these commandments to perform them before 
the Lord our God, as He hath commanded us. 

VIT. When the Lord thy God shall bring thee into 
the land to which thou wilt come to possess it, and He 
will make many peoples to go out from before thee, the 
Hittites, Girgashites, Amorites, Kenaanites, Perizites, 
Hivites, and Jebusites, seven nations more numerous 
and strong than thou, and the Lord your God will 
deliver them up before you, then shall you blot them 
out and utterly consume them by the curse of the Lord. 
You shall strike no covenant with them, nor have pity 
upon them. You shall not intermarry with them; your 
daughters you shall not give to their sons, nor take 
their daughters for your sons; for whosoever marrieth 
with them is as if he made marriage with their idols. 
(Jervsatem. You shall not be commixed with them. ] 
For their daughters will lead your sons away from My 
worship to serve the idols of the Gentiles; so will the 
anger of the Lord be kindled against you, and He will 
destroy you suddenly. But this shall you do to them: 
you shall destroy their altars, break their statues in 


vit. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 583 


pieces, cut down their groves for worship, and burn the 
images of their idols with fire. For you shall be a holy 
people before the Lord your God, as the Lord your God 
hath taken pleasure in you, that you may be a people 
more beloved before Him than all the peoples who are 
on the face of the earth. Not because you were more 
excellent than all other peoples hath the Lord had 
pleasure in you and chosen you, but because you were 
poor in spirit, and more humble than all the nations. 
Therefore, because the Lord had mercy on you, and 
would keep the covenant He had sworn with your 
fathers, He led you out free with a mighty hand, and 
redeemed you from the house of the affliction of slaves, 
from the hand of Pharoh king of Mizraim. Know 
therefore that the Lord your God isa Judge, strong 
and iaithful, keeping covenant and mercy with them 
who love Him and keep His commandments unto a 
thousand generations, aud who repayeth to them who 
hate Him the reward of their good works in this world, 
to destroy them (for their evil works) in the world to 
come; neither delayeth He (to reward) His enemies, 
but while they are alive in this world He payeth them 
their recompense. |] גת‎ And he repayeth them 
who hate Him for their little deeds of good which are 
in their hands in this world, to destroy them in the 
world to come; nor doth He delay to render to them 
that hate Him the reward of the slight works that are 
in their hands in this world.] Observe therefore the 
mandates, the statutes, and judgments which I command 
you, to perform them. 


584 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


SECTION XLVI. 
EKEB. 


Ir you receive these judgments, and observe and 
perform them, then will the Lord your God keep with 
you the covenant and the lovingkindness which He 
sware to your fathers. And He will love, bless, and 
multiply you, and will bless the children of your wombs, 
the fruit of your ground, your corn, wine, and oil, the 
herds of your oxen, and the flocks of your sheep, on 
the land which He sware to your fathers to give you. 
More blessed will you be than all peoples; there shall 
not be among you barren men or women, nor thy cattle 
(be wanting) in wool, or milk, or offspring. And the 
Lord will put away from thee all the diseases and evil 
plagues that He sent upon Mizraim which thou hast 
known; He will not put them upon you, but will send 
them forth upon all your enemies. And thou shalt 
consume all the nations which the Lord thy God giveth 
up to thee; thine eye shall not spare them nor their 
idols, because they would be a stumbling-block to thee. 
Neither say in thy heart, These nations are greater and 
stronger than I am: how shall 1 be able to drive them 
out? Be not afraid of them; remember the work of 
power which the Lord thy God wrought upon Pharoh 
and all the Mizraee; the great miracles which thou 
didst see with thine eyes, the signs and wonders, the 
strength of the mighty hand, and the victory of the 
uplifted arm, when the Lord your God led you out 
free : so will the Lord your God do unto all the peoples 
before whom thou art afraid. Moreover, the Lord 
your God will send the plague of biting hornets among 
you, until they who have remained shall perish and 


+ 
VILL. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 585 


disappear before you. Therefore be not down-broken 
before them, for the Shekinah of the Lord your God is 
among you, the Great and Fearful God. 

But the Lord your God will make these nations 
depart from before thee by little and little. You may 
not destroy them at once, lest the beasts of the field 
multiply against you, when they have come to devour 
their carcases. But the Lord your God will give them 
up before you, and will trouble them with great trouble, 
until they shall be consumed. [JerusaLem. And shall 
trouble them with great trouble, till the time that they 
shall be destroyed.] And He will deliver their kings 
into your hands, and you shall destroy their names from 
remembrance under the whole heavens: not a man shall 
stand before you until you have destroyed them. You 
shall burn their images with fire, nor desire the silver 
and gold that may be upon them, nor take them, lest 
through them you offend, for they are an abomination 
before the Lord your God. Neither may you bring 
their abominable idols or their service-vessels into your 
houses, that you be not accursed as they: but you shall 
utterly loathe them as a loathsome reptile, and abhor 
them altogether, because they are accursed. 

VIII. Every commandment which I command you 
this day, observe ye to do, that you may live, and mul- 
tiply, and go in and inherit the land which the Lord 
sware to your fathers. And remember all the way by 
which the Lord your God hath led you these forty 
years in the wilderness, to humble and try you, to know 
whether you will keep His commandments or not. And 
He humbled thee and let thee hunger, and fed thee 
with the manna which thou knewest not, nor thy 
fathers had known, that He might make thee to know 
that man liveth not by bread only, but by all that is 
created by the Word of the Lord doth man live. 

9 0 5 


0 
586 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


(JerusaLem. That by manna only.] Your raiment 
hath not waxen old upon your bodies, and your feet 
have not gone without covering these forty years. But 
you know with the thoughts of your hearts, that as a man 
regardeth his child, so the Lord your Gqd hath regarded 
you. Keep, therefore, the commandments of the Lord 
your God, to walk in the ways that are right before 
Him, and to fear Him. For the Lord your God 
bringeth you into a land whose fruits are celebrated, a 
land whose streams flow in clear waters, from sweet 
fountain springs, and depths that dry not up, issuing 
forth among the vales and mountains; a land producing 
wheat and barley, and growing vines from which cometh 
out wine sweet and ripe, and a land which yieldeth 
figs and pomegranates, a land whose olive trees make 
oil, and whose palms give honey; a land where, with- 
out poverty, you may eat bread and want nothing; a 
land whose sages will enact decrees unalloyed as iron, 
and whose disciples will propound questions weighty as 
brass. (JeRusatem. A land from whose olive trees 
they make oil, and from whose palms they make honey 
selene whose stones are pure as iron, and whose hills are 
firm as brass. ] 

Be mindful, therefore, in the time when you will have 
eaten and are satisfied, that you render thanksgiving 
and blessing before the Lord your God for all the fruit 
of the goodly land which He hath given you, lest you 
forget the fear of the Lord your God, and keep not His 
commandments, His judgments, and His statutes, which 
1 command you this day; lest, when you shall have 
eaten and are satisfied, and you have builded pleasant 
houses to dwell in, and your oxen and sheep are multi- 
plied, and silver and gold are increased to you, and all 
things you have are multiplied, your heart be lifted up, 
and you forget the fear of the Lord your God, who 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 587‏ [.אז 


brought you out free from the land of Mizraim, from 
the house of the affliction of slaves; who led thee in 
mercy through that great and fearful desert, a place 
abounding in burning serpents and scorpions with 
stings, a place where there is thirst but no water; but 
(where) He brought thee forth water out of the hard rock, 
and fed thee in the desert with manua which thy fathers 
knew not, to humble thee and to prove thee, that He 
may do thee good in thine end. 

Beware that you say not in your heart, Our strength 
and the might of our hands have obtained us all these 
riches ; but remember the Lord your God; for He it is 
who giveth thee counsel whereby to get wealth; that 
He may confirm the covenant which He sware to your 
fathers at the time of this day. For it shall be that if 
you forget the fear of the Lord your God, and go after 
the idols of the Gentiles, to serve and worship them, I 
testify against you this day, you will surely perish; as 
the peoples which the Lord your God disperseth before 
you, so will you perish, because you were not obedient 
to the Word of the Lord your God. 

IX. Hear, Israel: you are this day (about) to pass 
Jordana to enter in and possess (the country of) nations 
greater and stronger than you, and cities many, and 
fortified to the height of heaven. A people (are they) 
strong and tall as the giants whom you know, and of 
whom you have heard (say), Who can stand before the 
sons of the giantsP Know, therefore, to-day that the 
Lord your God, whose glorious Shekinah goeth before 
you, whose Word is a consuming fire, will destroy them 
and drive them out before you; so shall you drive them 
out, and destroy them quickly, as the Lord your God hath 
said to you. Speak not in your heart when the Lord 
your God hath driven them away from before you, 
saying, For the sake of my righteousness hath the Lord 


588 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


brought me in to inherit this land; for on account of 
the sins of these people the Lord driveth them out 
before you. Not for your righteousness, or the inte- 
grity of your heart, will you be brought in to possess 
their land, but for the sins of these people the Lord 
your God driveth them away before you; and that the 
Lord may establish the word which He sware to 
Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, your fathers. Know, 
therefore, that it is not on account of your merit that 
the Lord your God giveth you this glorious land to 
possess it; for a hard-necked people are you. Be 
mindful and forget not how you have provoked unto 
anger before the Lord in the wilderness, from the 
day that you went out of the land of Mizraim until you 
came to this place, and have been perverse before the 
Lord. (Even) at Horeb you provoked the Lord to 
anger, so that there was wrath before the Lord against 
you, to destroy you. When 1 had gone up to the 
mountain to receive the tables of marble, the tables of 
the covenant which the Lord had made with you, and I 
tarried on the mountain forty days and forty nights, I 
ate no bread, I drank no water; and the Lord gave to 
me the two tables of marble inscribed by the finger of 
the Lord, and upon which was written according to all 
the words which the Lord spake with you on the mount 
from the midst of the fire in the day of the assembling 
of the congregation. But at the end of the forty days 
and nights, when the Lord gave to me the two tables 
of marble, the tables of the covenant, the Lord said 
to me, Arise, go down qnickly from hence, for the 
people who are called by thy name, whom I led forth 
from the land of Mizraim, have corrupted their way ; 
they have soon gone aside from the way that I com- 
manded them on Sinai, saying, Make not to you a like- 
ness or image; for they have made for themselves a 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 589‏ [.צז 
molten (form).’ And the Lord spake to me saying,‏ 
the sin of this people is revealed before Me, and, behold,‏ 
this people is hard-necked: desist from thy prayer to‏ 
Me, that I may destroy them, and blot out their name‏ 
from under the heavens; and I will make of thee a‏ 
people stronger and greater than they.‏ 

And I prepared and went down from the mountain, 
and the mountain burned with fire; and the two tables 
of the covenant were upon my two hands. And I saw, 
and, behold, you had sinned before the Lord your God; 
you had made for you a molten calf, and had quickly 
declined from the way which the Lord had commanded 
to you. And taking the two tables, I cast them from 
my two hands and broke them; and you looked on 
while the tables were broken, and the letters fled away.? 
[Jertsates. And I took both the tables and cast 
them down.] But I prayed for mercy as at the first 
before the Lord; forty days and forty nights I ate no 
bread, nor drank water, for all your sin whereby you 
had sinned in doing what was evil before the Lord to 
provoke Him to anger. 

At that time five destroying angels were sent from the 
Lord to destroy Israel, Wrath, Burning, Relentlessness, 
Destruction, and Indignation; but when Mosheh the 
Rabban of Israel heard, he went and made memorial of 
the great and glorious Name, and called. And Abraham, 
Tzhak, and Jakob arose from their tomb, and stood in 
prayer before the Lord; and forthwith three of them 
were restrained, and two of them, Wrath and Burning, 
remained. But Mosheh (yet) supplicated mercy, and the 
two were also restrained ; and he digged a grave in the 
land of Moab and buried them, in swearing by the great 
and tremendous Name; for so it is written: For I was 
afraid before the anger with which the Lord was angry 


3 Vide Palest. Targ. on Exodus xxxii. 


590 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [ CHAP. 


with you to destroy you, and the Lord received my 
prayer at that time also. 

But against Aharon was there great displeasure before 
the Lord, (so that) He would destroy him; but I 
prayed for Aharon also at that time. And your sin, the 
calf which you had made, I took, and burned it in fire, 
and crushed it well with crushing until I had bruised it 
into dust; and I threw the dust into the stream that 
descended from the mountain. 

And at the place of Burning, and that of the Tempta- 
tion, and at the Graves of Desire [Jerusarem. And 
at the Graves of Desire] you provoked to anger before 
the Lord. And at the time when the Lord sent you 
from Rekem Giah, saying: Go up and take possession of 
the land which I have given you, then were you perverse 
with the Word of the Lord your God, and would not 
believe Him, nor be obedient to His Word. You have 
been perverse before the Lord from the day that I have 
known you. 

And I bowed down in prayer before the Lord for the 
forty days and nights in which ,1 was prostrate in 
supplication, because the Lord had said He was about 
to destroy you. And I prayed before the Lord, and 
said: I implore mercy before Thee, O Lord God, that 
Thou wouldst not destroy Thy people and Thy heritage 
which Thou hast redeemed by Thy power, and led forth 
from Mizraim by the strength of Thy mighty hand. 
Remember Thy servants Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, 
nor regard Thou the hard heart of this people, nor their 
wickedness, nor their sin: lest the inhabitants of the 
land from whence Thou hast led us say, that power 
failed before the Lord to bring them into the land of 
which Thou hast told them, and that because Thou 
didst hate them, therefore didst Thou lead them out to 
kill them in the wilderness. But they are Thy people 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 591‏ [.צ 


and Thy heritage, whom Thou didst bring out by Thy 
great power, and with Thy uplifted arm. 

X. At that time did the Lord say to me: Hew thee 
two tables of marble according to the form of the first ; 
and ascend before Me into the mountain, and make thee 
an ark of wood. And I will write upon the tables the 
words which were upon the former ones, which thou 
didst break with thy entire strength; and thou shalt 
put them within the ark. And I made an ark of sitta 
wood, and hewed two marble tables according to the 
form of the first, and went up into the mountain, having 
the two tables in my hand. And He wrote upon the 
tables according to the former writing, the Ten Words 
which the Lord spake with you from the mount in the 
midst of the fire on the day that the congregation was 
gathered together, and the Lord gave them to me. And 
1 turned and came down from the mountain, and put 
the tables into the ark which I had made, and there are 
they laid up (hidden) as the Lord commanded me. 

And the children of Israel journeyed from the villages 
of the wells of the Beni Jahakan to Mosera.* There 
Amalek, who reigned in Arad, and who had heard that 
Aharon was dead, and that the Cloud of Glory had gone 
up, (came and) fought with them. And those of Israel 
who were distressed by that war sought to go back into 
Mizraim, and returned (towards it) six journeys; (but) 
the sons of Levi followed after them, and slew eight 
families of them, und the remainder returned. Of the 
sons of Levi also four families were slain. And they 
said one to another, What hath been the cause of this 
slaughter? Because we have been remiss in the mourn- 
ing for Aharon the Saint. Therefore all the children of 
Israel observed there a mourning for Aharon’s death ; 
and there was he buried, and 1312281 his son ministered. 


* Compare the Samaritan Text. 


592 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHar. 


in his stead. Thence they journeyed to Gudgod, and 
from Gudgod to Jotbath, a land flowing with streams 
of water. At that time the Lord distinguished the 
tribe of Levi, because they had been zealous (even) 
to slay for His honour; that they should bear the 
ark of the Lord’s covenant, and stand before the Lord 
to minister unto Him and to bless in His Name 
until this day. Therefore the tbe of Levi hath not 
a portion or inheritance with his brethren; the gifts 
which the Lord giveth him are his inheritance, as 
the Lord your God hath spoken to him. But I stood 
in the mount praying and interceding as in the former 
days (of the) forty days and nights, and the Lord 
received my prayer at that time also, and the Lord 
would not destroy you. And the Lord said to me, 
Arise, go, lead forth the people, that they be brought 
in, and possess the land which I promised to their 
fathers to give them. 

And now, Israel, what doth the Lord your God 
require of you, but that you fear the Lord your God, 
to walk in all the ways that are right before Him, and 
that you love Him, and serve the Lord your God with 
all your heart and with all your soul, to keep the com- 
mandments of the Lord and His statutes which I com- 
mand you this day, that it may be well with you? 
Behold, the heavers, and the heavens of the heavens, are 
‘he Lord’s your God, and the hosts of angels are in 
them to minister before Him, and the earth, and what- 
soever is therein. Only the Lord had pleasure in your 
fathers, and because He would love you He hath had 
favour to their children after them, as you, above all the 
nations upon the face of the earth, at the time of this 
day. Put away folly, therefore, from your heart, and be 
not stiff-necked any more; for the Lord thy God is God, 
the Judge, and the Monarch of kings, a Great God, 


₪2 


DEUTERONOMY. 593‏ אס [.נצ 


mighty and terrible, before whom there is no respect of 
persons, and who taketh no bribe; He doeth judgment 
for the orphan and widow, and hath compassion upon 
the stranger to give him food and raiment. Have pity 
then (yourselves) upon the stranger, for you were 
strangers in the land of Mizraim. Revere the Lord 
your God, and worship before Him, and cleave closely 
to His fear, and swear by His Name. He is your 
praise, and He is your God, who hath done for thee 
these great and mighty acts which thou hast beheld 
with thy eyes. With seventy souls your fathers went 
down into Mizraim, and now hath the Lord your God 
set you as the stars of the heavens for multitude. 

XI. Therefore shall you love the Lord your God, and 
diligently observe His Word, His statutes, and His 
judgments always. And know you this day, for )1 
speak) not with your children who have not known or 
seen the instruction of the law of the Lord your God, 
nor His greatness, nor His mighty hand, nor His 
uplifted arm, or His signs and works which He wrought 
in Mizraim, on Pharoh king of Mizraim, and on all the 
inhabitants of his land; what He did also to the hosts 
of Mizraim, to their horses and chariots, when He made 
the waters of the Red Sea to overwhelm their faces when 
they followed after you, when the Lord destroyed them 
unto this day’s time; and what He hath done to you 
in the wilderness till the time that you came to this 
place; and what He did unto Dathan and Abiram the 
sons of Eliab bar Reuben, when the earth opened her 
mouth and swallowed them up with the men of their 
house, and all their substance, in the midst of all Israel : 
for with your eyes have you seen all the great work of 
the Lord which He hath wrought. Therefore shall you 
keep all the precepts which I command you this day, 
that you may be strengthened, and go in, and inherit 


594 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


the land to possess which you go over; and that your 
days may be multiplied upon the land which the Lord 
sware to your fathers to give it to them and their chil- 
dren ; a land whose fruits are rich as milk, and sweet as 
honey. For the land to which thou goest in to possess 
itis not like the land of Mizraim, from whence you have 
come, in which thou didst sow thy seed, and water it 
thyself as a garden of herbs; but the land which you 
pass over to inherit is a land of mountains and valleys : 
it drinketh water from the rain that cometh down from 
the heavens; it is a land which the Lord your God 
inquireth after by His Word, that He may bless it ever- 
more; [JenusaLeM. A land which the Lord your God 
inquireth after continually ; | the eyes of the Lord your 
God look upon it from the beginning of the year to the 
year’s end. And it shall be that if you diligently obey 
My commandments which I command you this day, to 
love the Lord your God, and to serve Him with all your 
heart, and with all your soul, then will I give you the 
rain of your land in its time, the early in Marchesvan, 
and the latter in Nisan, that you may gather in your 
corn, your wine, and your oil. I will give herbage also 
in thy field for thy cattle, that thou mayest eat and 
have enough. 

Take heed to yourselves, lest you be led away by the 
imagination of your heart, and turn aside to serve the 
idols of the Gentiles, and worship them, and the Lord’s 
anger be provoked against you, and He shut up the 
clouds of heaven, and let not the rain come down, and 
the earth yield no provender, and you perish soon from 
off the glorious land which the Lord shall give you. 
But lay these my words upon your heart, and upon your 
soul, and bind them, written upon tephillin, as a sign 
upon the upper part (wrist?) of your left hands, and 
let them be for tephillin over thy forehead between thy 


x1.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 595 


eyes. And thou shalt teach them to thy children, to 
study them when you are sitting in your house with your 
kindred, and when you are walking in the way, and in the 
evening when you lie down, and at morning when you 
arise. [JERUsaLem. And when you repose, and when you 
rise up.] And you shall write them upon parchment,! 
upon the posts, and affix them to three (things), against 
thy chest,° against the pillars of thy house, and against 
thy gates: that your days and the days of your children 
may be multiplied on the land which the Lord sware to 
your fathers to give you, as the number of the days that 
the heavens abide over the earth. 

For if you diligently keep every commandment that I 
command you to do it, to love the Lord your God, and 
walk in all the ways that are right before Him, and cleave 
unto His fear, then will the Word of the Lord drive out 
all these nations from before you, and you shall possess 
the heritage of nations greater and stronger than your- 
selves. Every place where the sole of your foot shall 
tread will be yours, from the wilderness and the moun- 
tain; (among) your mountains shall be the house of the 
sanctuary, and from the great river, the River Phrat, 
unto the ocean sea, whose waters are (old as) the 
creation, on the western side shall be your limit. Not 
a man will be able to stand before you; but the Lord 
your God will set the fear and dread of you upon the 
faces of all the inhabiters of the land that you tread upon, 
as 1% hath been told you. ([Jerusarem. Not a ruler 
nor a prince shall stand before you; but your terror and 
your fear. | 


4 Or “rolls,” megiltha, 5 Tekey, theca. 


596 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


SECTION XLVILI. 
REEH. 


MosueH the prophet said: Behold, I have this day 
set in order before you a Blessing and its contrary ל‎ 
the Blessing, if you will be obedient to the command- 
ments of the Lord your God which I command you this 
day; and its contrary, if you will not obey the command- 
ments of the Lord your God, [Jerusatem. And their 
contraries, if you will not hearken,] but will go astray 
from the path which I have taught you this day, in 
turning aside after the idols of the nations thom thou 
hast not known. And it shall be, when the Lord your 
God will have brought you to the land into which you 
are going, to possess it, you shall place six tribes upon 
the mountain of Gerizim, and six tribes on the mountain 
of Kal. They who recite the blessings shall turn their 
faces towards Mount Gerizim, and they who recite the 
curses shall turn their faces towards Mount Ebal. Are 
they not situated beyond Jordan by the way of the 
sunset, in the land of the Kenaanah, who dwell in the 
plain over against Gilgela by the side (of the place) of 
the vision of Mamre? For you are to pass over Jordan 
to enter and possess the land which the Lord your God 
giveth you, and you will hold and willdwell therein. Look 
well, therefore, that you perform all the statutes and 
Judgments that I have set before you this day. 

XI. These are the statutes and judgments which you 
are to observe to do in the land which the Lord God of 
your fathers giveth you to inherit all the days that you 
live upon the earth. You shall utterly destroy all the 
places in which the people (whose land) you will possess 


6 Chiluphah, “its alternative: root, chalaph, "+0 change.” 


XIL.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 597 


have worshipped their idols, upon the high mountains 
and hills, and under every tree of beautiful form. You 
shall lay their altars in ruin, break down their pillars, 
burn their abominations with fire, and utterly destroy 
the images of their gods, and abolish their names from 
that place. 

Not so may you do to blot out the inscription of the 
Name of the Lord your God. But in the land which 
the Word of the Lord your God will choose out of all” 
your tribes for His Shekinah to dwell there, unto the 
place of His Shekinah shall you have recourse, and come 
thither, and bring your sacrifices and consecrated ob- 
lations, your tythes, the separation of your hands, your 
vows, your voluntary offerings, and the firstlings of your 
herds and flocks. And you shall there eat before the 
Lord your God, and rejoice in all that you put your 
hand unto, you and your households, in which the Lord 
your God will have blessed you. 

Tt will not be lawful for you to do (there) as we do 
here to-day, whatever any one thinks fit for himself; 
for you are not yet come to the Sanctuary, to the 
dwelling of Peace, and to the inheritance of the land 
which the Lord your God will give you. But when you 
have passed over Jordan, and dwell in the land which 
the Lord your God will give you to inherit, and He 
hath given you repose from all your enemies round about, 
then shall you build the house of the Sanctuary, and 
afterward shall dwell securely. And to the place which 
the Word of the Lord will choose to make His Shekinah 
to dwell there, shall you bring all your oblations, first- 
lings, and tythes, which I command you; there shall 
you offer your sacrifices and hallowed victims, there eat 
your tythes and the separation of your hands, and all 
your goodly vows which you may have vowed before the 
Lord. And you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, 


598 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cuar. 


you and your sons and daughters, your servants and 
handmaids, and the Levite who is in your cities, for he 
hath no portion or inheritance with you. 

Beware lest you offer your sacrifices in any place 
which thou mayest see; but in the Place which the 
Lord will choose in the inheritance of one of your tribes, 
there shall you offer your sacrifices and do whatever I 
command you. Nevertheless, after every wish of your 
soul, you may kill and eat flesh according to the blessing 
of the Lord your God, which He will give you in all 
your cities; they who are unclean so as not to be able 
to offer holy things, and they who are clean that they 
may offer holy things, may eat of it alike, as the flesh of 
the antelope or of the hart. Only be careful to pour 
out the blood upon the ground like water. It will not 
be lawful for you to eat the tenths of your corn, or wine, 
or oil, or the firstlings of your herd or flock, nor any of 
the vows that you have vowed, or freewill offerings, or 
the separation of your hands in your cities; but you 
shall eat it before the Lord your God, in the place which 
the Lord your God will choose; you, and your sons 
and daughters, and your handmaids, and the Levites 
who are in your cities; and you shall rejoice before the 
Lord your God, in all that thou puttest thine hand unto. 
Beware that thou aggrieve’ not the Levite all your days 
in which you dwell in your land. 

When the Lord your God will have enlarged your 
border, as He hath said unto you; and thou sayest, I 
would eat flesh, because thy soul וגג‎ desire to eat 
flesh, thou mayest eat flesh according to all thy desire. 
But if the place which the Lord your God will have 
chosen that His Shekinah may dwell there be too far 
off, then may you eat of your herds and flocks which 
the Lord your God shall give you, as I have com- 


” Mekal, “to injure, be false or perverse with.” 


xi1.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 599 


manded you, in your cities you may eat, according to 
all the desire of your soul: as the flesh of the antelope 
or hart so may you eat it; he who is unclean that he 
may not offer holy things, and he who is clean that he 
may offer them, may eat of it alike. [Jerusareu. He 
who is restrained from holy things, and he who is clean 
for holy things, may eat alike.] Only put a strong 
restraint upon your desires, that you eat no blood; for 
the blood is the subsistence of the life. You may not, 
with the flesh, eat blood, in which is the subsistence of 
life: you shall not eat it, you shall pour it out upon 
the ground like water: eat it not, that it may be well 
with you, and with your children after you, while you 
do that which is right before the Lord. Nevertheless, 
animals which are your consecrated tenths, and your 
votive offerings, you shall take and bring to the place 
which the Lord will choose; and thou shalt do (with 
them) according to the rite of thy burnt offerings, (and 
offer) the flesh and the blood upon the altar of the 
Lord thy God: the blood of the rest of thy holy obla- 
tions shall be poured out at the altar of the Lord thy 
God, but of the flesh it is lawful to eat. 

Observe and obey all these words that I command you, 
that it may be well with you and with your children after 
you for ever, while you do that which is good and right 
before the Lord your God. When the Lord your God 
shall have cut off the nations among whom you go, and 
have expelled them from before you, and you inherit 
and dwell in their land, beware that you stumble not 
after their idols when they shall have been destroyed 
before you, or lest you seek after their idols, saying, 
How did these peoples worship their gods, that we may 
worship as they did? So shall you not do im serving 
the Lord your God; for whatever is abominable and 
hateful to Him have they done to their idols; for even 


600 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHaP. 


their sons and daughters they have bound and burned 
with fire unto their idols. Whatsoever 1 command you, 
that shall vou observe to do; ye shall not add to it nor 
diminish from it. 

XIIL. When there may arise among you a false pro- 
phet, or a dreamer of a profane dream, and he give 
you asign or a miracle, and the sign or the miracle 
come to pass, (yet) because he spake with you, saying, 
Let us go after the gods of the peoples whom thou hast 
not known, and worship them, you shall not hearken to 
the words of that lying prophet, or his who hath dreamed 
that dream; for the Lord your God (thereby) trieth you, 
to know whether you will love the Lord your God with 
all your heart and with all your soul. You shall walk 
after the service of the Lord your God, and Him shall 
you fear, and keep His commandments, hearken to His 
word, pray before Him, and cleave unto His fear. And 
that prophet of lies, or that dreamer of dreams, shall be 
slain with the sword, because he had spoken perversity 
against the Lord your God,—who brought you out 
from the land of the Mizraee, and redeemed you from 
the house of the affliction of slaves,—to make you to go 
astray from the path which the Lord your God hath 
commanded you to walk in: so shall you bring down 
the doers of evil among you. 

When thy brother, the son of thy mother, when even 
the son of thy father, or thy own son, or thy daughter, 
or thy wife who reposeth with thee, or thy friend who 
is beloved as thy soul, shall give thee evil counsel, to 
make thee go astray, speaking out and saying, Let us 
go and worship the gods of the Gentiles, which neither 
thou nor thy fathers have known; of the idols of the 
seven nations who are near you round about, or of the 
rest of the nations who are far away from you, from one 
end of the earth to the other; you shall not consent to 


DEUTERONOMY. 601‏ אס [.ז+ 


them, nor hearken to him, neither shall your eye spare 
him or have compassion, nor shall you hide him in 
secret ; but killing you shall kill him; your hand shall 
be the first upon him to slay him, and afterwards the 
hand of all the people; and you shall stone him that he 
die; because he sought to draw them away from the 
fear of the Lord thy God, who brought you out free 
from the land of Mizraim, from the house of the afflic- 
tion of slaves. And all Israel will hear and be afraid, 
and never more do according to that evil thing among 
you. [Jerusatem. When thy brother, the son of thy 
mother, thy son, thy daughter, or the wife who reposeth 
with thee, shall turn thee away. ] 

When, in one of your cities which the Lord your God 
will give you to dwell in, you hear it said that (certain) 
men of pride are drawing back from the doctrine of the 
Lord your God, or that even sages of your rabbins have 
gone forth and led away the inhabitants of their city, 
saying, Let us go and worship the gods of the nations 
which you have not known: then search you out, and 
examine with witnesses, and make good inquiry; and, 
behold, if the thing be true and certain that this abomi- 
nation hath been really done among you, you shall 
smite the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the 
sword, to destroy it utterly and whatever is therein, 
even its cattle, with the edge of the sword. You shall 
gather all its spoil into the midst of the street, and 
burn the city with fire, together with the whole of the 
spoil, before the Lord your God; and it shall be a deso- 
late heap for ever, never to be builded again: that the 
Lord may be turned from the fierceness of His anger, 
and may show His mercy upon you, and love you, and 
multiply you, as He hath sworn to your fathers. So be 
ye obedient to the Word of the Lord your God, to keep 
all His commandments which I command you this day, 

פע - 


602 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHAP. 


that you may do what is right before the Lord your 
God. 

XIV. As beloved children before the Lord your God, 
you shall not make lacerations in your flesh, nor make 
bare the crown ef the hair over your foreheads on 
account of the soul of the dead. [Jenvsateu. You are 
beloved children before the Lord your God; you shall 
not make divers wounds for strange worship, nor cause 
baldness above your forehead to mourn for a person who 
is dead.] For you are to be a holy people before the Lord 
your God: the Lord your God hath chosen you to be a 
people more beloved than all the peoples who are upon 
the face of the earth. You may not eat of any thing 
that for you is abominable. 

These are the animals which you may eat: oxen, and 
lambs of the ewes, such as are not blemished (unclean), 
and kids of the goats unmixed with what are unclean. 
Harts and antelopes and fallow deer, rock goats and 
reems, wild oxen and prgargs;® and every animal that 
hath the divided hoof, and horns, and that cleaveth the 
cleft, bringing up the cud among animals, that you may 
eat. [Jerusatem. Which bringeth up the cud among 
animals, that may you eat.] But of these you may not 
eat that bring up the cud, or of those who (only) have 
the hoof divided, the cast thing (embryo) which hath 
two heads or a double back, things which are not to be 
perpetuated in the same species (i. 6., as a species) ; nor 
the camel, the hare, or the coney, because they chew the 
cud, but do not divide the hoof; they are unclean to 
you. [Jerusatem. Because they bring up the cud, 
but have not the hoof divided.] The swine, because, 
though he hath the hoof divided, and there is none pro- 
duced that like him divideth (the hoot), and yet cheweth 
not the cud, is unclean to you; of their flesh you shall 


* Ditzin, “ springers.” 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 603‏ [.ץזצ 


not eat, nor touch their dead bodies. But this you 
may eat, of ail that are in the waters, whatever hath fins 
to move, as by flying, and scales upon its skin; and 
though (some of which) may fall away, yet if there 
remain ore under its jaw, another under its fin, and 
another under its tail, that you may eat.2 But what- 
ever hath neither fins nor scales you may not eat; it is 
unclean to you. Every bird which hath a vesicle or crop 
which may be picked away,! and which (bird) is longer 
than a finger, and not of the rapacious kind, you may 
eat. But these are they which you may not eat: the 
eagle, the ossifrage, the osprey, the daitha (lammer 
geyer ?) white or black, which is a bird of prey, a kind 
of vulture.? [JerusaLem. 12. And these are they of 
which you may not eat; the eagle, and the sea eagle 
(ossifrage), and the osprey. 13. And the rook, the 
heron also, and the vulture after his kind.] And every 
raven after his kind; and the owl, and nighthawk, and 
the cuckoo, and the falcon after his kind; the great 
owl, and the sea gull (catcher of fish from the sea), and 
the night owl, (?) and the cormorant? white or black, 
and the pica, and the stork white or black after its kind, 
and the heathcock, and the bat, [Jerusares. And 
the white daitha, and the ibis according to his kind, and 
the heathcock, and the bat,] and all flies (bees) and 
wasps, and all worms of vegetables and pulse, which 
come away from (taterials of ( food and fly as birds, are 
unclean to you, they may not be eaten; but any clean 
beast you may eat. You shall not eat of anything that 
is unclean through the manner of its death; * you may 


® Fishes are clean when they have at least two scales and one fin.— 


Mishna, Cholin, iv. 
1 Every bird which hath a erop, and of which the internal coat of the 


stomach may be readily peeled off, is clean —J0., iii., 6. 
2 Or, “which is an iu, a daitha after its kind.” * Query, pelican. 
Or, “that is corrupted in the slaughtering of it.” 


אפ 7 


604 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cwap. 


give it to the uncircumcised stranger who is in your 
cities to eat it, or sell it toa son of the Gentiles; for 
you are a holy people before the Lord your God. It 
shall not be lawful for you to boil, much less to eat, 
flesh with milk when both are mixed together. 

Be mindful to tythe your fruitage of whatsoever 
cometh forth, and which you gather in from the field 
year by year; not giving the fruit of one year for the 
fruit of another. [Jerusatem. My people of the house 
of Israel, tything you shall tythe all the produce of your 
seed, of that which you sow upon the face of the field 
and gather in the produce of each year. Israel, My 
peaele, it is not lawful for vou to ty ‘the and eat the fruit 
of one year along with the fruit of (another) year. ] 
And the second tythe you shall eat before the Lord 
your God in the place which He will choose to make 
His Shekinah to dwell there; the tenths of your corn, 
your vines, and your oil, and likewise the firstlings of 
your oxen and sheep, that you may learn to fear the 
Lord your God all the days. And if the way be too 
ereat for you to be able to carry the tenth, because the 
place which the Lord thy God will choose for His 
Shekinah to dwell there is too distant from you, when 
the Lord thy God shall have blessed thee, then thou 
mayest make exchange for it into silver, and bind the 
sum in thy hand, and proceed to the place which the 
Lord thy God shall choose, and give the silver for any 
thing that thy soul pleaseth, of oxen, sheep, wine new or 
old, or whatever thy soul desireth; and you shall eat 
there before the Lord your God and rejoice, you and the 
men of your house. And the Levite who is in your 
cities forsake not, for he hath not a portion or a heritage 
with you. At the end of three years you shall bring 
forth all the tenths of your produce for that year, and 
lay them up in your cities. And the Levite, because 


Xv.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 605 


he hath no part or heritage with you, aud the stranger, 
the orphan, and the widow who are in your cities, shall 
come and eat and be satisfied; that the Lord your God 
may bless you in all the works of your hands that you 
do. 

XV. At the end of seven years you shall make a 
Release. And this is the indication of the custom of 
the Release: Every man who is master of a loan, who 
lendeth to his neighbour, shall give remission. He shall 
not have power to coerce his neighbour in demanding 
his loan, nor of his brother, a son of Israel; because 
the beth din hath published the Release before the 
Lord. From a son of the Gentiles thou mayest exact, 
but the lawful right (dima) which is thine with thy 
brother thou shalt release with thine hand. If you will 
only be diligent in the precepts of the law, there will be 
no poor among you; for, blessing, the Lord will bless 
you in the land which the Lord your God will give you 
for a possession to inherit; if, obeying, you will only 
obey the Word of the Lord your God, to observe and do 
all these commandments which I command you this 
day. For the Lord your God blesseth you, as He saith 
to you (that) you shall take from many nations, but 
they will not take from you; and you will have power 
over many nations, but they shall not have power over 
you. But if you be not diligent in the precepts of the 
law, and there be among you a poor man in one of thy 
cities of the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, 
thou shalt not harden thy heart, nor hold back thy hand 
from thy poor brother; but thou shalt open thy hand to 
him, and lend to him according to the measure of his 
want through which he is in need. Beware lest there 
be a word in thy proud heart, saying: ‘The seventh year, 
the year of release, is at hand, and your eye become evil. 
toward your עסטק‎ brother, so as to be not willing to 


606 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


give to him, and he cry against you to the Lord, and 
there be guilt upon you. Giving you shall give to him, 
nor shall your heart be evil when you give to him; for 
on account of this matter the Lord your God will bless 
you in all your works that you put your hands unto. 
But forasmuch as the house of Israel will not rest in 
the commandments of the law, the poor will not cease 
in the land: therefore 1 command you, saying: You 
shall verily open your hands toward your neighbours, 
to the afflicted around you, and to the poor of your 
country. [JerusaLem. Giving thou shalt give to him, 
nor let your looks be evil at the time you give to him. 
If Israel would keep the precepts of the law, there would 
be no poor among them; but if they will forsake the 
precepts of the law, the poor shall not cease from the 
land: therefore 1 command you, saying: You shall 
verily open your hands to your poor brethren, and to 
the needy who will be in your land.] 

If your brother, a son of Israel, or if a daughter of 
Israel, be sold to you, he shall serve you six years; and 
when the seventh comes, thou shalt send him from you 
free. And when thou lettest him go away from thee at 
liberty, thou shalt not send him away empty. Comfort- 
ing thou shalt comfort him out of your flocks, your 
floors, and your wine presses ; as the Lord hath blessed 
you ye shall give to him. [Jerusareu. Thou shalt 
furnish him.] And be mindful that you were servants in 
the land of Mizraim, and that the Lord your God set 
you free; therefore 1 command you to-day that you do 
this thing. 

But if he say to thee, I will not go out from thee, 
because 1 love thee and the men of thy house, and because 
it hath been good for him to be with thee, then thou shalt 
take an awl, and bore (or apply) it through his ear, and 
that to the door of the house of judgment, and he shall 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 607‏ [.נץצ 


be thy serving servant until the Jubilee. And for thy 
handmaid also thou shalt write a certificate of release, 
and give it to her. It must not bea hardship in thy 
eyes when thou sendest him away from thee; for double 
the hire of an hireling hath he been of service to 
thee six years; and on his account the Lord thy God 
hath blessed thee in all that thou hast done. 

Every firstling male that cometh of thy herd and 
flock thou shalt consecrate before the Lord thy God. 
Thou shalt not work with the firstlings of your herd, nor 
shear the firstlings of your flocks ; you shall eat thereof 
before the Lord your God from year to year, in the 
place which the Lord will choose, you and the men of 
your houses. But if there be any spot in it, if it be 
lame or blind, or have any blemish, you shall not sacri- 
fice it before the Lord your God: you may eat it in your 
cities ; he who is unclean, (so) that he may not approach 
to holy things, and he who being clean may approach 
the holy, may alike (eat), as the flesh of the antelope or 
hart.4 Only you shall not eat the blood; you shall 
pour it out upon the ground like water. 

XVI. Be mindful to keep the times of the festivals, 
with the intercalations of the year, and to observe the 
rotation thereof: in the month of Abiba to perform the 
pascha before the Lord your God, because in the month 
of Abiba the Lord your God brought you out of 
Mizraim ; you shall eat it therefore by night. But you 
shall sacrifice the pascha before the Lord your God 
between the suns; and the sheep and the bullocks on 
the morrow,® on that same day to rejoice in the feast at 
the place which the Lord will choose to make His She- 
kinah to dwell there. You shall uot eat leavened bread 


+ That is,as any of the clean animals which were not permitted to be 


sacrificed at the altar. 
5 Num. xxviii. 19. 


608 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


with the pascha; seven days you shall eat unleavened 
bread unto His Name, the unleavened bread of humilia- 
tion; for with haste you went forth from the land of 
Mizraim ; that you may remember the day of your out- 
going from the land of Mizraim all the days of your 
life. Take heed that in the beginning of the pascha 
there be no leaven seen among you within all your 
borders for seven days; and that none of the flesh which 
you sacrifice in the evening of the first day remain till 
the morning. It will not be allowed you to eat the 
pascha in (any) one of your cities which the Lord your 
God giveth to you; but in the place which the Lord 
your God will choose to make His Shekinah to dwell, 
there shall you sacrifice the pascha; and in the evening 
at the going down of the sun you may eat it until the 
middle of the night, the time when you began to go out 
of Mizraim. And you shall dress and eat it in the 
place which the Lord your God will choose, and in the 
early morn (if need be) thou mayest return from the 
feast, and go to thy cities. On the first day thou shalt 
offer the omer, and eat unleavened cakes of the old 
corn; but in the six remaining days you may begin to 
eat unleavened cakes of the new corn,® and on the 
seventh day you shall assemble with thanksgiving 
before the Lord your God; no work shall you perform. 

Seven weeks number to you; from the time when you 
begin to put the sickle to the harvest of the field after 
the reaping of the omer you shall begin to number the 
seven weeks, And you shall keep with joy the Festival 
of Weeks before the Lord your God, after the measure 
of the freewill offerings of your hands, according as the 
Lord your God shall have blessed you. And you shall 
rejoice with the joy of the feast before the Lord your 


= The consecrated harvest sheaf having been offered on the preceding 
day. 


XVI] ON DEUTERONOMY. 609 


God, you and your sons, your daughters, your servants 
and handmaids, the Levites who are in your cities, and 
the stranger, the orphan, and the widow who are among 
you, at the place which the Lord your God will choose 
where to make His Shekinah to dwell. Remember that 
you were servants in Mizraim; so shall you observe and 
perform these statutes. 

The Feast of Tabernacles you shall make to you seven 
days, when you will have completed to gather in the corn 
from your threshing floors, and the wine from your 
presses. And vou shall rejoice in the joy of your feasts 
with the clarinet and flute, you and your sons and 
daughters, your handmaids, the Levite, the stranger, the 
orphan, and the widow, who are in your cities. Seven 
days you shall keep the feast before the Lord your God 
in the place which the Lord will choose, because the 
Lord your God will have blessed you in all your pro- 
vision, and in all the work of your hands, and so shall 
you be joyful in prosperity. 

Three times in the year shall all your males appear 
before the Lord your God in the place that He will 
choose; at the Feast of the Unleavened, at the Feast of 
Weeks, and at the Feast of Tabernacles; nor must you 
appear before the Lord your God empty of any of the 
requirements; every one after the measure of the gifts 
of his hands, according to the blessing which the Lord 
your God hath bestowed upon you. 


SECTION XLVIII. 
SHOPHETIM. 


Upricut judges and efficient administrators? you 
shall appoint in all your cities which the Lord your God 


7 Dayanin kashilin ve Sarekin alemin. 


2p5 


610 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (CHAP. 


will give you for your tribes, and they shall judge the 
people with true judgment. ([Jerusatem. Judges and 
administrators.] You shall not set judgment aside, nor 
respect persons, nor take a gift, because a gift blindeth 
the eyes of the wise who take it; for it perverteth them 
to foolishness, and confuseth equitable words in the 
mouth of the judges in the hour of their decision. 
[Jervsates. You shall not go astray in judgment, 
nor respect persons, nor take the wages of mammon; 
for a bribe blindeth the eyes of the wise, and depraveth 
their right words in the hour of their judgment.] 
Upright and perfect judgment in truth shalt thou follow, 
that you may come to inherit the land which the Lord 
your God will give you. As it is not allowed you to 
plant a grove by the side of the Lord’s altar, so is it not 
allowed you to associate in judgment a fool with a wise 
judge to teach that which you are todo. As it is not 
for you to erect a statue, so are you not to appoint to be 
a governor a proud man, whom the Lord your God 
doth abhor. 

XVII. You shall not sacrifice before the Lord your 
God a bullock or lamb which hath any blemish or evil 
in it, or which is torn or rent; for that is abominable 
before the Lord your God. 

Tf there be found among you in one of your cities 
that the Lord your God will give you a man or woman 
who doth what is evil before the Lord your God in 
transgressing His covenant, and, following after evil 
desire, shall serve the idols of the Gentiles, and worship 
them, or the sun, or the moon, or all the host of the 
heavens, which I have not commanded; and it be told 
you, and you hear and make inquiry by witnesses fairly ; 
and, behold, if this word be true and certain, that such 
abomination is wrought among you, then you shall bring 
forth that man or woman who hath done this evil thing, 


XVII. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 611 


unto the gate of your house of judgment, the man or 
the woman, and you shall stone them that they die. 
Upon the word of two witnesses or of three he shall die 
who is guilty of death ; they shall not be put to death on 
the word of one witness. The hands of the witnesses 
shall be first upon him to kill him, and afterward the 
hands of all (any of) the people ; and so shall you bring 
down the evil doer among you. 

If there be with you an extraordinary matter for 
judgment between unclean and clean blood, cases of life 
or of money, or between a plague of leprosy or of the 
scall, with words of controversy in your beth din, then 
you shall arise and go up to the place which the Lord 
your God will choose; and you shall come to the priests 
of the tribe of Levi, and to the judge who will be in 
those days, and inquire of them, and they will show you 
the process of judgment. Then shall you do according 
to the word of the custom of the law that they will show 
you at the place the Lord will choose, and observe to do 
whatsoever they teach you. ([Jervsateuw. When a 
matter is too occult for you, in setting judgment in order 
between the blood of murder and innocent blood, 
between leprosy and the scall, with words of contention 
in your cities, then shall you arise and go up to the 
place which the Lord your God will choose.] According 
to the word of the law that they will teach you, and the 
manner of judgment they pronounce, you shall do. You 
shall not turn aside from the sentence they will show 
you, to the right or to the left. And the man who will 
act with presumption, and not obey the judge or the 
priest who standeth there to minister before the Lord 
your God, that man shall be put to death; so shall you 
put down the doer of evil from Israel, and all the people 
will hear, and be afraid, and not do wickedly again. 

When you enter the land which the Lord your God 


612 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


giveth you, and possess, and dwell in it, and you say, 
Let us appoint a king over us, like all the nations about 
me, you shall inquire for instruction before the Lord, 
and afterward appoint the king over you: but it will 
not be lawful to set over you a foreign man who is not 
of your brethren. Only let him not increase to him 
more than two horses, lest his princes ride upon them, 
and become proud, neglect the words of the law, and 
commit the sin of the captivity of Mizraim; for the 
Lord hath told you, By that way ye shall return no 
more. Neither shall he multiply to him wives above 
eighteen, lest they pervert his heart ; nor shall he increase 
to him silver or gold, lest his heart be greatly lifted up, 
and he rebel against the God of heaven. And it shall 
be that if he be steadfast in the commandments of the 
law, he shall sit upon the throne of his kingdom in 
security. And let the elders write for him the seetion 
(pharasha) of this law in a book before the priests of 
the tribe of Levi; and let it be at his side, and he shall 
read it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear 
the Lord his God, to keep all the words of this law, and 
all these statutes to perform them: that his heart may 
not be arrogant toward his brethren, nor decline from 
the precepts to the right or the left, and that his days 
may be prolonged over his kingdom, his and his sons’ 
among Israel. 

XVIII. The priests of the tribe of Levi will have no 
part or inheritance with their brethren: they shall eat 
the oblations of the Lord as their portion, but an 
inheritance in field or vineyard they will not have 
among their brethren. The twenty and four gifts of the 
priesthood which the Lord will give to him are his 
heritage; as He said to him, And this shall be the 
portion belonging to the priest from the people, from 
them who offer sacrifices, whether bullock or lamb: 


XVIII. ] ON DEUTERONOMY, 613 


they shall give to the priest the right shoulder, the 
lower jaw, the cheeks, and the maw; the firsts of your 
corn, wine, and oil, the first of the fleece of your sheep, 
as much as 8 girdle measureth shall you give to him: 
because the Lord thy God hath chosen him out of all 
thy tribes to stand and minister in the Name of the 
Lord, him, and his sons, all the days. 

And when a Levite may come from one of your cities 
out of all Israel where he hath dwelt, and come with all 
the obligation of his soul’s desire to the place which the 
Lord will choose, then he shall minister in the Name of 
the Lord his God as all his brethren the Levites who 
minister there before the Lord. Portion for portion 
equally shall they eat, besides the gifts of the oblations 
which the priests do eat, which Elazar and Ithamar 
your fathers have given them to inherit. [JerusaLew. 
And the allowance of his sale which they sell to him 
according to the fathers. ] 

When you have entered the land which the Lord 
your God giveth you, ye shall not learn to do after the 
abominations of those nations. None shall be found 
among you to make his sons or daughters pass through 
the fire, nor who enchant with enchantments, or inspect 
serpents, nor observe divinations and auguries, or make 
(magical) knots 5 and bindings of serpents and scorpions 
or any kind of reptile, or who consult the oba,° the 
bones of the dead? or the bone Jadua, or who inquire 
of the manes. ([JuRusatem. No one shall be found 
among you to make his son or daughter pass through 
the fire, to enchant with enchantments, to inspect 
serpents, or to observe divinations and auguries; or any 
who use (magical) knots, or are binders of snakes, 

8 Or, “ combinations.” ° Python. Glossary, p. 25. 

Bones of the dead,” lit., “the unclean.” Tamya, i. 6, “ immundi,‏ > ג 


pollute, Sanhedrin, cxiii., 1, per synecdoch.: cadavera, ossa cadaverum.” 
—CASTEL. 


614 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (cHap. 


scorpions, or any kinds of reptiles, or are consulters of 
oba, or who bring up the manes, or seek to learn from 
the dead.] For every one who doeth these is an abomi- 
nation before the Lord; and because of these abomina- 
tions the Lord driveth them out before you. Ye shall 
be perfect in the fear of the Lord your God. For these 
nations which thou art about to dispossess have listened 
to inspectors of serpents aud enchanters. [JERUsa- 
LEM. To inspectors of serpents and to users of enchant- 
ments have they hearkened.] But you are not to be 
like them: the priests shall inquire by Urim and 
Thummim ; and a Righ Prophet 2 will the Lord your 
God give you; a Proyhet from among you of your 
brethren like unto se, with the Holy Spirit will the 
Lord your God raise up unto you; to Him shall you be 
obedient. According to all that you begged before the 
Lord your God in Horeb on the day of the assembling 
of the tribes to receive the law, saving, Let us not again 
hear the Great Voice from before the Lord our God, 
nor behold again that great fire, lest we die: and the 
Lord said to me, That which they have spoken is right ; 
T will raise up unto them a Prophet from among their 
brethren in whom shall be the Holy Spirit, as in thee; 
and I will put My Word of prophecy in his mouth, and 
he shall speak with them whatsoever I command him; 
and the man who will not hearken to the words of My 
prophecy which shall be spoken in My Name, My Word 
shall take vengeance upon him. But the false prophet 
who doeth wickedly in speaking a thing in My Name, 
when 1 have not commanded him to speak, or who 
shall speak in the name of the gods of the Gentiles, 
that prophet shall be slain with the sword. And if 
thou shalt say in your thoughts, How shall we know 
the word which the Lord hath not spoken? When a 


2 Or, ‘a Prophet of Righteousness.” Vide Glossary, p. 19. 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 615‏ [.צזצ 


false prophet speaketh in the Name of the Lord, and 
the thing doth not come to pass, or be not confirmed, 
it is a word which the Lord hath not spoken; the false 
prophet spake it in presumption; fear him not. 

XIX. When the Lord your God shall have destroyed 
the nations whose land the Lord your God giveth you, 
and you possess them, and dwell in their cities and 
houses, three cities shall you set apart within your land 
which the Lord your God giveth you to inherit. You 
shall prepare a high road, and divide your limit which the 
Lord your God bestoweth upon you, that any manslayer 
may flee thither. And this is the regulation for the 
manslayer who fleeth thither that he may live: Who- 
ever shall have killed his brother without intention, he 
not having kept enmity against him yesterday, or the 
day before, (as for example) if any one goeth with his 
neighbour into the thicket to cut wood, and he driveth 
his hand with the axe to cut wood, and the iron flieth 
apart from the haft and lighteth on his neighbour that 
he die, he may flee to one of those appointed cities, and 
save his life. [Jervsatem. He who may go with his 
neighbour into the thicket to cut wood, and exerting 
himself with the axe to cut the wood, the iron separate 
from the handle, and fall upon his neighbour that he 
die, he may flee into one of those cities, and live.] 
Lest the avenger of blood follow after him, his heart 
boiling within him on account of his grief, and appre- 
hend him, if the way be long, and take his life, though 
he is not guilty of the judgment of death, because he 
had not enmity against himin time past. [JeRuUSsALEM, 
Because his heart is boiling, and he meeteth.] There- 
fore 1 command you to-day that you set apart for you 
three cities. 

And if the Lord your God enlarge your border, as 
He hath sworn to your fathers, and give you all the 


616 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


land which He hath sworn to your fathers to give, 
then shall you keep all this commandment which to-day 
1 command you to do, that thou mayest love the Lord 
thy God, and walk in the ways which are right before 
Him all days; and you shall add yet three cities to 
those three; that innocent blood may not be shed in 
your land which the Lord your God giveth you to 
inherit, and the guilt of the judgment of death may not 
be upon you. 

But if a man with enmity against lis neighbour shall 
lay wait for him in secret, to destroy his life, and he die, 
then should he flee into one of those cities, the sages of 
his cities shall send and take him thence, and give him 
up into the hand of the pursuer for blood, and he shall 
be put to death. Your eye shall not spare him, but 
you shall put away shedders of innocent blood from 
Israel, that it may be well with you. 

You shall not remove the boundary mark of your 
neighbours which the predecessors did set for the limit 
in your possession of inheritance in the land which the 
Lord your God giveth you to inherit. 

The testimony of one (witness) shall not be valid 
against a man for any crime (regarding the taking) of 
life, or guilt concerning money, or any sin with which 
one may be charged with sinning; but, by the Word of 
the Lord, (to insure) retribution upon secret crimes, 
(while) one witness may swear to deny what hath been 
attested against him, the sentence shall be confirmed 
upon the mouth of two witnesses, or of three. 

When false witnesses stand up against a man to 
testify wrong things against him, then the two men 
between whom lies the subject of contention shall stand 
in the presence of the Lord, before the priests and 
judges who will be in those days: and the judges shall 
question the witnesses of their times fairly ; and, 


DEUTERONOMY, 617‏ אס [.צצ 


behold, false testimony is in the mouth of the witnesses ; 
they have borne false witness against their brother. 
And so shall you do unto them as they had devised to 
do against their brother, and you shall put down the 
doers of evil from among you. And the wicked who 
remain will hear and be afraid, and not add to repeat 
an evil thing like this among you. Your eye shall not 
spare; life for life, the value of an eye for an eye, the 
value of a tooth for a tooth, the value of a hand for a 
hand, the value of a foot for a foot. 

XX. When you go forth to battle against your 
enemies, and see horses and chariots, and peoples proud, 
overbearing, and stronger than you, fear them not; for 
all of them are accounted as a single horse and a single 
chariot before the Lord your God, whose Word will 
be your Helper; for He brought you free out of the 
land of Mizraim. And at the time that you draw nigh 
to do battle, the priest shall approach and speak with 
the people, and say to them, Hear, Israel, you draw 
near this day to fight against your adversaries ; let not 
your heart be moved, be not afraid, tremble not, nor be 
broken down before them: for the Shekinah of the 
Lord your God goeth before you to fight for you against 
your enemies, and to save you. 

And the officers shall speak with the people, saying : 
Who is the man who hath builded a new house, and 
hath not set fast its door-posts to complete it? let 
him go and return to his house, lest through sin he be 
slain in the battle, and another man complete it. Or, 
what man hath planted a vineyard, and hath not re- 
deemed it from the priest [Jerusatem. And hath not 
redeemed it] to make it common? let him go and 
return to his house, lest sin be the occasion of his not 
redeeming it, but he be slain in the battle, and another 
make it common. And what man hath betrothed a 


618 TARGUM OF PALESTINE שג זז‎ 


wife, but not taken her? let him go and return to his 
house, lest sin prevent him from rejoicing with his wife, 
and he be slain in the battle, and another take her. 
Yet more shall the officers speak to the people, and say, 
Who is the man who is afraid on account of his sin, 
and whose heart is broken ? let him go and return to his 
house, that his brethren be not implicated in his sins, and 
their heart. be broken like his. And when the officers 
shall have finished to speak with the people, they shall 
appoint the captains of the host at the head of the people. 

When you come nigh to a city to make war against 
it, then you shall send to it certain to invite 1t to 
peace; and if they answer you with words of peace, 
and open their gates to you, all the people whom you 
find therein shall be tributaries, and serve you. [JERU- 
saLeM. And if it answer thee with words of peace, and 
open the gates to you, all the people whom you find.} 
But if they will not make peace, but war, with you, 
then you shall beleaguer it. And when the Lord your 
God will have delivered it into your hand, then may 
you smite every male thereof with the edge of the 
sword. But the women, children, and cattle, and what- 
ever is in the city, even all the spoil, you shall seize, 
and eat the spoil of your enemies which the Lord your 
God giveth you. Thus shall you do to all cities that are 
remote from you, which are not of the cities of these 
seven nations; but of the cities of these peoples, which 
the Lord your God giveth you to inherit, ye shall 
not spare alive any breathing thing: for destroying ye 
shall destroy them, Hittites, Amorites, Kenaanites, 
Pherizites, Hivites, and Jebusites, as the Lord your 
God hath commanded you; that they may not teach 
you to do after their abominations with which they 


have served their idols, and you sin before the Lord 
your God. 


DEUTERONOMY. 619‏ אס [,נצצ 


When you beleaguer a city all the seven days to war 
against it, to subdue it on the Sabbath, you shall not 
destroy the trees thereof by bringing against them (an 
imstrument of) iron; that you may eat its fruit, cut it 
not down; fora tree on the face of the field is not as a 
man to be hidden (put out of sight) before you in the 
siege. But the tree that you know to bea tree not 
making fruit to eat, that you may destroy and cut down. 
And you shall raise bulwarks against the city which 
maketh war with you, until you have subdued it. 

XXI. If a man be found slain upon the ground, un- 
buried, in the land which the Lord your God giveth you 
to inherit, lying down, and not hanged on a tree in the 
field, nor floating on the face of the water; and it be 
not known who did kill him: then two of the sages shall 
proceed from the chief court of judgment, and three of 
thy judges, and shall measure to the surrounding cities 
which lie on the four quarters from the (spot where) the 
dead man (is found); and the city which is nearest to 
the dead man, being the suspected one, let the chief 
court of justice take means for absolution (or discul- 
pation). Let the sages, the elders of that city, take an 
heifer from the herd, not commixed, an heifer of the 
year, which hath not been wrought with, nor hath drawn 
in the yoke: and the sages of that city shall bring the 
heifer down into an uncultivated field, where the ground 
hath not been tilled by work, nor sowed; and let them 
there behead the heifer from behind her with an axe (or 
knife, dolch) in the midst of the field. And the priests 
the sons of Levi shall draw near ; for the Lord your God 
hath chosen them to minister to Him, and to bless Israel 
in His Name, and according to their words to resolve 
every judgment, and in any plague of leprosy to shut 
up, and pronounce concerning it; and all the elders of 
the city lying nearest to the dead man shall wash their 


620 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


hands over the heifer which hath been cut off in the 
field, and shall answer and say: It is manifest before the 
Lord that this hath not come by our hands, nor have 
we absolved him who shed this blood, nor have our 
eyes beheld. [Jerusatem. Nor have our eyes seen 
who it is who hath shed it.] And the priests shall say : 
Let there be expiation for thy people Israel, whom Thou, 
O Lord, hast redeemed, and lay not the guilt of innocent 
blood upon Thy people Israel; but let him who hath 
done the murder be revealed. And they shall be 
expiated concerning the blood; but straightway there 
will come forth a swarm of worms from the excrement 
of the heifer, and spread abroad, and move to the place 
where the murderer is, and crawl over him: and the 
magistrates shall take him, and judge him. So shall 
you, O house of Israel, put away from among you 
whosoever sheddeth innocent blood, that you may do 
what is right before the Lord. 


SECTION XILIX. 


TITSE. 


WHEN you go out to war against your enemies, and 
the Lord your God shall deliver them into your hands, 
and you take some of them captive: if you see in the 
captivity a woman of fair countenance, and you approve 
of her, and would take her to you to wife; then thou 
shalt take her into thy house, and let her cut off the 
hair of her head, pare her nails, and put off the 
dress of her captivity, and, dipping herself, become a 
proselyte in thy house, and weep on account of the idols 
of the house of her father and mother. And thou shalt 


DEUTERONOMY. 621‏ אס [,נצצ 


wait three months to know whether she be with child; 
and afterwards thou mayest go to her, endow her, and 
make her thy wife. 

But if thou hast no pleasure in her, then thou 
mayest send her away, only with a writing of divorce: 
but thou shalt in no wise sell her for money, nor make 
merchandise of her, after thou hast had intercourse with 
her. [JeRusatem. If thou hast no pleasure in her, 
thou mayest send her away with power over herself; 
but thou shalt in no wise sell her for money, nor make 
merchandise of her; because thy power over her is 
given up.] 

If a man have two wives, and one is beloved and the 
other hated, and they bear him sons, both the beloved 
and the hated (wife), and the first-born son be of the 
hated, it shall he in the day that he deviseth to his sons 
the inheritance of the wealth that may be his, he shall 
not be allowed to give the birthright portion to the son of 
the beloved, over the head of the son of the hated wife, 
to whom the birthright belongs; but (let him acknow- 
ledge) the birthright of the son of her who is disliked, 
and all that belongeth to it, to give him the double 
portion of all that may be found with him, because he is 
the beginning of his strength, and to him pertaineth the 
birthnight. 

Tfa man hath a son depraved and rebellious, who 
will not obey the word of his father or of his mother, 
and who, when they reprove him, will not receive 
admonition from them; his father and mother shall take 
him, and bring him before the sages of thecity at the 
door of the court of justice in that place, and say to the 
sages of the city, We had transgressed the decree of the 
Word of the Lord; therefore was born to us this son, 
who is presumptuous and disorderly; he will not hear 
our word, but is a glutton and a drunkard. And it 


622 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


shall be that if he brouglit to fear and receive instruction, 
and beg that his life may be spared, you shall let him 
live; but if he refuse and continue rebellious, then all 
the men of his city shall stone him with stones that he 
die; andso shall you put away the evil doer from among 
you, and all Israel will hear, and be afraid. 

When a man hath become guilty of the judgment of 
death, and is condemned to be stoned, and they after- 
wards hang him on a beam, [Jervsatem. And you 
hang him on a beam,] his dead body shall not remain 
upon the beam, but he shall be certainly buried on the 
same day ; for it is execrable before God to hang a man, 
but that his guilt gave occasion for it; and because he 
was made in the image of God, you shall bury him at the 
going down of the sun, lest wild beasts abuse him, and 
lest you overspread your land, which the Lord your God 
giveth you to possess, with the dead bodies of criminals. 

XXII. Thou shalt not see thy brother’s ox or his 
lamb going astray, and estrange thy knowledge from 
them; thou shalt certainly restore them to him. Bat if 
1 of thy brother is not tl une, if thou knowest 
him not, thou shalt bring it into thy house, and it shall 
be supported by thee tall hoe time that thou hast sought 
out thy brother, and thou shalt restore it to him. So 
shalt thou do with his ass, with his garment, and with 
any lost thing of thy brother’s. If thou find, it is not 

‘lawful for thee to hide it from him; thou shalt cry it, 
and restore it. [Jerusatem. And so shalt thou do 
with his ass, and with his robe.] Thou shalt not see 
thy brother’s ass nor his ox thrown on the way, and 
turn thy eyes from them; thou shalt verily lift it up for 
him. (Jervsates. ‘Thou shalt forgive what may be 
in thy heart against him, thou shalt deliver and lead it.] 

Neither fringed robes nor tephillin which are the 
ornaments of a man shall be upon a woman; neither 


DEUTERONOMY. 623‏ אס [,זנצצ 


shall a man shave himself so as to appear like a woman; 
for every one who docth so is an abomination before the 
Lord thy God. 

If thou find the nest of a clean bird before thee in 
the way, in a tree, or upon the ground, in which there 
are young ones or eggs, and the mother sitting upon the 
young ones or eggs, thou shalt be sure to send the 
mother away, but thou mayest take the young for thyself ; 
that it may be well with thee in this world, and that 
thou mayest prolong thy days in the world to come. 

When thou buildest a new house, thou shalt make a 
surrounding fence to thy roof, that it may not be the 
occasion of blood guilt by the loss of life at thy house, 
by any one through heedlessness falling therefrom. 
[Jerusatem. Then thou shalt make a parapet to thy 
roof, that the guilt of innocent blood shedding may not 
be set upon thy house. ] 

You shall not sow your vineyard with seeds of dif- 
ferent kinds, lest thou be chargeable with burning the 
mixed seed that you have sown and the produce of the 
vine. You shall not plough with an ox and an ass, nor 
with any animals of two species bound together. You 
shall not clothe nor warm yourselves with a garment 
combed (carded) or netted, or interwoven with woollen 
and linen mixed together. Ncvertlicless on a robe of 
linen thread you may be permitted to make fringes of 
woollen upon the four extremities of your vestments with 
which you dress in the day. [Jenusatem. Fringes of 
threads shall you make upon the four edges of your 
vestments with which you dress. ] 

Tf a man take a wife or virgin and go unto her, but 
afterwards dislike her, and bring upon her words of 
calumny in an evil report against her, and say, I took 
this woman, and lay with her, but found not the wit- 
nesses for her; then the father aud mother of the 


624 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


damsel may have licence from the court of judgment to 
produce the linen with the witnesses of her virginity, 
before the sages of the city, at the door of the beth din. 
And the father of the damsel shall say to the sages, I 
wedded my daughter to this man to be his wife; but 
after lying with her he hath hated her; and, behold, he 
hath thrown upon her occasion of words, saying: I have 
not found the witnesses of thy daughter’s (virginity) ; 
but these are my daughter’s witnesses; and they shall 
spread the linen before the sages of the city; and the 
sages shall take that man, scourge him, and fine him a 
hundred shekels of silver, and give to the father of the 
damsel, because he had brought out an evil report 
against an upright virgin of Israel; and she shall be 
his wife, nor shall he have power to put her away all his 
days. But if that word be true, and the witnesses of 
virginity were not found with the damsel, then shall 
they bring her forth to the door of her father’s house, 
and the men of that city shall stone her with stones that 
she die; for she had wrought dishonour in Israel in 
bringing the ill fame of whoredom against her father’s 
house; and so shall they put away the evil doer from 
Israel. (JuRvsatem. But if this word be true, and 
the damsel’s witnesses are not found, they shall bring 
that damsel from the door of her father’s house, and the 
people shall stone her. ] 

If a man be found lying with another’s wife, both of 
them shall be put to death; the man who hath lain 
with the woman, and the woman. Even 1] she be with 
child, they shall not wait till she is delivered, but in the 
same hour they shall put them to death by strangula- 
tion with the napkin, and cast away the evil doer from 
Israel. 

If a damsel a virgin is betrothed to a man, and 
another man find her in the city, and lie with her, they 


XXIII. | אס‎ DEUTERONOMY, 625 


shall bring forth both of them to the door of the beth 
din of that city, and stone them with stones that they 
die; the damsel because she did not cry out in the city, 
and the man because he lay with his neighbour’s wife; 
and you shall put away the evil doer from among you. 
But if a man find a damsel in the wilderness, and do 
violence to her and lie with her, the man only shall die 
who lay with her, for the damsel is not guilty of death; 
but her husband may put her away from him by a bill 
of divorcement ; for as when a man lieth in wait for his 
neighbour and taketh his life, so is this matter: he 
found her upon the face of the field ; the betrothed dam- 
sel cried out for help, but there was no one to deliver her. 

If a wan find a damsel who is not betrothed, and seize 
and lie with her, and they be found, then the man who 
lay with her shall give to her father, as a fine for her 
dishonour, fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his 
wife, because he humbled her, nor shall he have power 
to put her away by divorcement all his days. 

111. A man should not take a wife who is bowed 
down (or violated), or who hath had intercourse with 
his father, much less his father’s wife, nor disclose the 
skirt that covereth his father. He who is castrated is not 
fit to take a wife from the congregation of the Lord’s 
people. He who is born of fornication, or who hath 
upon him the evil mark which is set upon the unclean 
Gentiles, is not fit to take an upright wife from the con- 
gregation of the people of the Lord; nor unto the 
tenth generation shall it be fit for him to enter into the 
congregation of the Lord. Neither an Ammonite nor a 
Moabite man is fit to take a wife from the congregation 
of the Lord’s people, nor unto the tenth generation shall 
they take a wife from the congregation of the people of 
the Lord, because they met you not with bread and 
water in the way when you came from Mizraim, but 


הנ הר 


626 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


hired against you Bileam bar Beor from Pethor 
Chelmaya,? which is built in the land of Aram upon 
the Phrat, to curse you; but the Lord your God 
would not hearken unto Bileam, but turned in his 
mouth curses into blessings, because the Lord your God 
loveth you. Ye shall not seek their peace or their 
prosperity all your days, because, if even they become 
proselytes, they will entertain enmity in their hearts for 
ever. You shall not abhor an Edomite when he cometh 
to be a proselyte, for he is your brother; nor shall you 
abhor a Mizraite, because you were dwellers in their 
land. The children who are born to them in the third 
generation shall be fit to take wives from the people of 
the congregation of the Lord. 
. When you go forth in hosts against your enemies, 
beware of every evil thing, of strange worship, the 
exposure of the shame, and the shedding of innocent 
blood. Should there be a man among you who is 
unclean from accidents of the night, let him go without 
the camp, and come not among the tents. But at 
evening time let him wash with water, and on the going 
down of the sun he may come within the camp. [JERU- 
sateM. And at evening let him bathe with water.] 
Let a place be prepared for thee without the camp where 
thou mayest shed the water of thy feet, and insert a 
blade with your weapon in the place on which you bind 
your swords, and in thy sitting without thou shalt dig 
with it, and do what thou ueedest there, and turn and 
cover it. For the Shekinah of the Lord thy God walk- 
eth in the midst of thy camp to save you, and to deliver 
your enemies into your hands ; therefore shall the place 
of your camps be holy, and nothing impure be seen in 
it, that His Shekinah go not up from you. 

Thou shalt not deliver up a stranger into the hand of 


2 © Pethor of the Dreams.” 


DEUTERONOMY. 627‏ אס [.זזדצצ 


the worshipper of idols ; (the sojourner) who hath escaped 
to be among you shall be under the protection of My 
Shekinah ; for therefore he hath fled from his idolatry. 
Let him dwell with you, and observe the commandments 
among you; teach him the law, and put him in a school 
in the place that he chooseth in one of your cities: 
employ (or, have business with) him, that he may do 
well, and trouble him not by words. 

You shall not profane your daughters to make them 
harlots ; nor shall any man of Israel debase himself by 
fornication. You shall not bring a gift of the hire of 
an harlot, nor the price of a dog, to offer it in the sanc- 
tuary of the Lord your God for any vow, much less as 
any of the oblations; for they are abominable, both of 
them, before the Lord your God. [Jerusatem. There 
shall not be a harlot among the daughters of the house 
of Israel, nor a whoremonger among the sons of Israel. 
You shall not bring the hire of an harlot, nor the price 
of a dog.] 

Thou shalt not make usury of that which is thine 
from thy neighbour upon the loan which thou lendest, 
either of money, or food, or any thing by which thou 
mayest make usury. To a son of the Gentffes thou 
mayest lend for usury, but to thy brother thou shalt not 
lend for usury ; that the Lord thy God may bless thee 
in all that thou puttest thine hand unto, in the land 
into which thou art entering to possess it. 

When you vow a vow before the Lord your God, 
delay not to fulfil it in (one of) the three festivals; for 
the Lord your God requiring will require it. And in 
the oblation there shall not be any fault or blemish, for 
in the prescription of the Lord of the world it is so 
ordained. And thou shalt not be guilty of keeping back 
(delaying) thy vow: though, if you refrain from vowing, 
it will not be sin in you, the oath which goeth from 

92 





628 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


your lips you shall contirm. The precepts of integrity 
you shall verily perform, but that which is not right to do 
ye shail not do; and according as you have vowed shall 
you fulfil; sin offerings, trespass offerings, burnt sacri- 
fices, and consecrated victims shall you present before 
the Lord your God, and bring the libations and the 
gifts of the sanctuary of which you have spoken (in 
promises), and alms for the poor which your lips have 
declared. When thou hast come for hire into thy 
neighbour’s vineyard, thou mayest eat there as thou wilt, 
till thou art satisfied; but thou mayest not put any 
into thy basket. When you go to work for hire in the 
field of thy neighbour, thou mayest gather with thy 
hands, but thou art not to put forth the sickle upon thy 
neighbour’s corn (for thyself). 

XXIV. When a man hath taken a wife and gone 
unto her, if she hath not favour in his eyes because he 
findeth the thing that is wrong in her, then he may 
write her a bill of divorce before the court of justice, 
and put it into her power,’ and send her away from his 
house. And departing from his house she may go and 
marry another man. But should thev proclaim from 
the heavens about her* that the latter husband shall 
dislike her, and write her a bill of divorce, and put it 
into her power to go from his house; or should they 
proclaim about him that he the latter husband shall 
die: it shall not be in the power of the first husband 
who dismissed her at the beginning to return and take 
her to be with him as his wife, after that she hath 
been defiled; for that is an abomination before the 
Lord: for the children whom she might bear should 
not be made abominable, or the Jand which the Lord 
your God giveth you to inherit become obnoxious to 
the plague. 


3 Feyitten bereshuthah. 4 Veakrizu ₪100 min snemaya. 


XXIV. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 629 


When a man hath taken a new wife a virgin, he 
shall not go forth with the army, lest anything evil 
befall him ; he shall be at leisure in his house one year, 
and rejoice with his wife whom he hath taken. 

A man shall not take the millstones, lower or upper, 
as a pledge; for they are necessary in making food 
for every one. (JeRusaLEM. You shall not take the 
upper and lower millstones for a pledge; for the pledge 
is a necessary of life.] Neither shall a man join bride- 
grooms and brides by magical incantations; for what 
would be born of such would perish. [JerusaLem. 
Nor shall there be unlawful conjoinments of bride- 
grooms and brides; for what such produce is denied 
the life of the world to come.] 

When a man is found stealing a person of his brethren 
of the sons of Israel, making merchandise of him, and 
selling him, that man shall die by strangulation with 
the napkin; and you shall put away the evil doer from 
among thee. 

Take heed that you cut not into flesh in which there 
is an ulcer; but make careful distinction between the 
plague of leprosy and ulceration; between the unclean 
and clean, according to all that the priests of the tribe 
of Levi shall teach you: whatever they prescribe to you 
be observant to perform. Be mindful that no one con- 
temn his neighbour, lest he be smitten: remember that 
which the Lord your God did to Miriam, who contemned 
Mosheh for that which was not in him, when she was 
smitten with leprosy, and you were delayed in the way 
when coming out of Mizraim. 

When a man hath lent any thing to his neighbour 
upon a pledge. he shall not enter into his house to take 
his pledge; he shall stand in the street, and the man to 


5 Arum naphesha deathid lemiphak minkun, hu mechabbel: “ For 
the soul that would proceed from them would perish.” 


630 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


whem thou hast made the loan shall bring out the 
pledge to thee into the street. If the man be poor, thou 
shalt not have his pledge all night with thee; as the sun 
goeth down, thou shalt return the pledge, that he may 
lie in his garment and may bless thee; and to thee it 
shall be righteousness, for the sun shall bear the witness 
of thee before the Lord thy God. (Jernvusatem. Thou 
shalt certainly return the pledge to him as the sun 
goeth down, that he may sleep in his garment, and may 
bless thee ; and to thee it shall be righteousness before 
the Lord thy God.] 

You shall not be hard upon your neighbours, or 
shift (or decrease) the wages of the needy and poor 
hireling of thy brethren, or of the strangers who sojourn 
in your land, in your cities. In his day thou shalt pay 
him his hire. Nor let the sun go down upon it; 
because he is poor, and he hopes (for that hire) to sus- 
tain his life: lest he appeal against thee before the Lord, 
and it be guilt in thee. [JeRusaLEm. You shall not 
wilfully keep back the wages of the poor and needy of 
your brethren. In his day thou shalt pay his wages, 
nor let the sun go down upon them; for he is poor, and 
by means of his hire he sustaineth his life: that he may 
not cry against thee before the Lord: so beware that it 
become not guilt in you.] 

Fathers shall not die either by the testimony 5 or for 
the sin of the children, and children shall not die either 
by the testimony ® or for the sin of the fathers: every 
one shall die, by proper witnesses, for his own sin. 
Thou shalt not warp the judgment of the stranger, the 
orphan, or the widow, nor shall any one of you take the 
garment of the widow for a pledge, that evil neighbours 
rise not and bring out a bad report against her when 
you return her pledge unto her. And remember that 

5 Besahadutha, 


ON DEUTERONONY. 631‏ [,טצצ 


you were bondservants in the land of Mizraim, and that 
the Word of the Lord your God delivered you from 
thence; therefore have I commanded you to observe 
this thing. 

When you have reaped your harvests in your fields, 
and have forgotten a sheaf in the field, you shall not 
return to take it ; let it be for the stranger, the orphan, 
and the widow, that the Word of the Lord your God 
may bless you in all the works of your hands. When 
you beat your olive trees, you shall not search them 
after (you have done it); for the stranger, the orphan, 
and widow, let it be. (Jerusareu. When you beat 
your olive trees, search them not afterward; let them 
be for the stranger, the orphan, and the widow.] 
When you gather in your vineyard, you shall not glean 
the branches after you; they shall be for the stranger, 
the orphan, and widow. ([Jerusatem. When you 
gather your vines, search not their branches afterwards ; 
let them be for the stranger and the widow.] So 
remember that you were bondservants in the land of 
Mizraim ; therefore 1 command you to do this thing. 

XXV. If there be a controversy between two men, 
then they shall come to the judges, and they shall judge 
them, and give the decision (or outweighing of) righte- 
ousness to the innocent, and of condemnation to the 
guilty. And if the wicked deserve stripes, the judge 
shall make him lie down, and they shall scourge him 
in his presence by his judgment, according to the 
measure of his guilt. [Jerusateu. And if it be need- 
ful to scourge: the guilty, the judge shall make him lie 
down, and they shall smite him in his presence, accord- 
ing to the measure of his guilt, by number.] Forty 
(stripes) may be laid upon him, but with one less shall 
he be beaten, (the full number) shall not be completed, 
lest he should add to smite him beyond those thirty and 


632 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [ CHAP. 


nine, exorbitantly, and he be in danger; and that thy 
brother may not be made despicable in thy sight. 

You shall not muzzle the mouth of the ox in the time 
of his treading out; [Jervsatem. Sons of Israel, My 
people, you shall not muzzle the ox in the hour of his 
treading ;[ nor the wife of the (deceased) brother, who 
would be mated with one smitten with an ulcer, and 
who is poorly related,” shalt thou tie up with him. 

When brethren from the (same) father inhabit this 
world at the same time, and have the same inheritance, 
the wife of one of them, who may have died, shall not 
Zo forth into the street to marry a stranger; her brother- 
in-law shall go to her, and take her to wife, and become 
her husband. And the first-born whom she beareth 
shall stand in the inheritance in the name of the 
deceased brother, that his name may not be blotted out 
from Israel. But if the man be not willing to take his 
sister-in-law, then shall his sister-in-law go up to the 
gate of the beth din before five of the sages, three of 
whom shall be judges and two of them witnesses, and 
let her say before them in the holy language: My 
husband’s brother refuseth to keep up the name of his 
brother in Israel, he not being willing to marry me. 
And the elders of his city shall call him and speak 
with him, with true counsel; and he may rise up in the 
house of justice, and say in the holy tongue, I am not 
willing to take her. Then shall his sister-in-law come 
to him before the sages, and there shall be a shoe upon 
the foot of the brother-in-law, a heeled sandal whose 
lachets are tied, the latchets at the opening of the sandal 
being fastened ; and he shall stamp on the ground with 
his foot; and the woman shall arise and untie the 
latchet, and draw off the sandal trom his foot, and after- 
ward spit before him, as much spittle as may be seen 


7 Or, “who hath nothing of his own.” 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 633‏ [,טצצ 


by the sages, and shall answer and say, So is it fit to 
be done to the man who would not build up the house 
of his brother. And all who are standing there shall 
exclaim against him, and call his name in Israel the 
House of the Unshod. [Jervsarem. And his name in 
Israel shall be called the House of hii whose shoe was 
loosed, and who made void the law of Yeboom.*] 

While men are striving together, if the wife of one of 
them approach to rescue her hushand from the hand of 
him who smiteth him, and putting forth her hand layeth 
hold of the place of his shame, you shall cut off her 
hand ; your eyes shall not pity. [Jerusatem. If she put 
forth her hand, and lay hold by the place of his shame.] 

You shall not have in your bag weights that are 
deceitful; great weights to buy with, and less weights 
to sell with. Nor shall you have in your houses 
measures that deceive; great measures to buy with, and 
less measures to sell with. [Jervsanem. You shall not 
have in your houses measures and measures; great 
ones for buying with, and small ones to sell with.] Per- 
fect weights and true balances shalt thou have, perfect 
measures and scales that are true shall be yours, that 
your days may be multiplied on the land which the 
Lord your God giveth you. For whosoever committeth 
these frauds, every one who acteth falsely in trade, is an 
abomination before the Lord. 

Keep in mind what the house of Amalek did unto 
you in the way, on your coming up out of Mizraim ; 
how they overtook you in the way, and slew every one 
of those among you who were thinking to go aside from 
My Word ; the men of the tribe of the house of Dan, 
in whose hands were idols (or things of strange wor- 
ship), and the clouds overcast them, and they of the 


8 Glossary, p. 69. The intricacies of this law are explained in the 
Mishna, Treatise Yebamoth, and by Maimonides in his Hilkoth Yeboom. 


2 28 


634 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


house of Amalek took them and mutilated them, and 
they were cast up: but you, O house of Israel, were 
faint and weary from great servitude of the Mizraee, 
and the terrors of the waves of the sea through the 
midst of which you had passed. Nor were the house 
of Amalek afraid before the Lord. [Jervsatem. Who 
overtook you in the way, and slew among you those 
who were thinking to desist from My Word, the cloud 
overcast him, and they of the house of Amalek took 
him and slew him. But you, people of the sons of 
Isracl, were weary and faint; nor were they of the 
house of Amalek afraid before the Lord.}] Therefore, 
when the Lord hath given you rest from all your 
enemies round about in the land that the Lord your 
God giveth you to inherit for a possession, you shall 
blot out the memory of Amalek from under the heavens; 
‘but of the days of the King Meshiha you shall not be 
unmindful. 


SECTION L. 
THABO. 

XXVI. פצג‎ when you have entered into the land 
which the Lord thy God giveth you for an inheritance, 
and you possess and dwell in it; you shall take of the 
earliest first fruits which are ripe at the beginning, of 
all the produce of the ground which thou ingatherest 
from the land which the Lord your God hath given 
you, and put them into a basket, and go unto the place 
which the Lord your God will choose that His She- 
kinali may dwell there. And you shall put crowns 
upon the baskets, hampers, and paper cases, and bring 
them to the priest appointed to be the chief priest in 
those days, and shall say to him: We acknowledge this 
day before the Lord thy God that we have come into 


xxvi.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 635 


the land which the Lord sware unto our fathers to give 
us. [Jrrusatem. And thou shalt come to the priest 
who will be appointed the chief priest in those days, 
and say to him: We give glory and thanks this day 
before the Lord thy God, that we have come into the 
land which the Word of the Lord did covenant unto 
our fathers to give us.] And the priest shall receive 
the basket of early fruits from thy hand, and take, bring, 
uplift, and lower it, and afterward lay it down before the 
altar of the Lord your God. And you shall respond, 
and say before the Lord your God: 

Our father Jakob went down into Aram Naharia at 
the beginning, and (Laban) sought to destroy him ; 
but the Word of the Lord saved him out of his 
hands. And afterwards went he down into Mizraim 
and sojourned there, a few people; but there did he 
become a great people, and mighty and many. But 
the Mizraee evil-treated and afflicted us, and laid 
heavy bondage upon us. But we prayed before the 
Lord our God, and the Lord hearkened to our prayers, 
our affliction and our travail; and our oppression was 
manifest before Him. And the Lord brought us out 
of Mizraim with a mighty hand and uplifted arm, and 
with great visions, signs, and wonders, and brought us 
into this place, and gave us this land, a land of fruits 
rich as milk and sweet as honey. Now, therefore, 
behold, I have brought the early firstlings of the fruit 
of the land which thou hast given me, O Lord. 

And thou shalt lay them before the Lord thy God, 
and worship, and rejoice in all the good which the Lord 
thy God giveth thee, thou and the men of thy house, 
and enjoy and eat, you, the Levites and the sojourners 
who are among you. 

When you make an end of tything all the tenths of 
your produce in the third year, which is the year of 


636 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


release, you shall give the first tenth to the Levites, the 
second tenth, which is the tythe of the poor, to the 
stranger, the orphan, and widow, that they may eat in 
your cities, and be satisfied. [Jerusatem. When you 
finish tything all the tenths of your produce in the 
third year, which is the year of the tythe for the poor, 
you shall give the first tenth to the Levites, and the 
poor’s tenth to the stranger, the orphan, and widow, 
that they may eat in your cities, and be 5405060. [ But 
the third tenth you shall bring up, and eat before the 
Lord thy God, and thou shalt say: 

Behold, we have set apart the consecrations from the 
house, and have also given the first tenth to the Levites, 
the second tenth to the strangers, the fatherless, and the 
widow, according to the commandment which Thou 
hast commanded me. I have not transgressed one 
of Thy commandments, nor have I forgotten. I have 
not eaten of it in the days of my mourning, nor sepa- 
rated from it for the unclean, neither have 1 given of it 
a covering for the soul of the dead: ל‎ we have hearkened 
to the voice of the Word of the Lord; I have done 
according to all that Thou hast commanded me. 
[JerusaLem. We have not eaten thereof in (our) 
mourning, nor separated theretrom for the unclean, nor 
given of it for the defiled soul; for we have obeyed’ the 
voice of the Word of the Lord our God; we have done 
according to all that Thou hast commanded us.j Look 
down from heaven, from the habitation of the glory of 
Thy holiness, and bless Thy people Israel, and the land 
which Thou hast given to us, as Thou didst swear unto 
our fathers, a land of fruits rich as milk and sweet as 
honey. (Jervusates. Look down, we beseech Thee, 
from the heavens, the habitation of Thy glory and Thy 
holiness, and bless Thy people Israel, and the land 

9 Vide Addenda, 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 637‏ [,ננטצצ 


which Thou hast given us, as Thou didst swear unto 
our fathers (to give usa land) producing good fruits, 
pure as milk, sweet and delicious as honey.] 

This day doth the Lord our God command you to 
perform these statutes and judgments, which you shall 
observe and do with all your heart and with all your 
soul. The Lord have you confessed with one confes- 
sion in the world this day ; for so it is written, Hear, O 
Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord; that He may 6 
thy God, and that thou mayest walk in the ways that 
are right before Him, and keep His statutes, command- 
ments, and judgments, and be obedient unto His Word. 
And the Word of the Lord doth acknowledge (or 
honour) you with one acknowledgment in the world 
this day ; as it is written, Who is as Thy people Israel, 
a peculiar people upon the earth, to be to Him a people 
beloved, as He hath said unto you, and that you may 
obey all His commandments? [JerusaLem. You have 
chosen the Word of the Lord to be King over you this 
day, that He may be your God. But the Word of the 
Lord becometh the King over you for His Name’s 
sake, as over a people beloved as a treasure, as He 
hath spoken to you, that you may obey all His com- 
mandments.] And He will set you on high, and exalt you 
above all the peoples He hath made in greatness, and with 
a name of glory and splendour, that you may be a holy 
people before the Lord your God, as He hath spoken. 

XXVII. And Mosheh and the elders of Israel in- 
structed the people, saying: Observe all the command- 
ments which I command you this day. And it shall be 
on the day that you pass over the Jordana into the 
land which the Lord your God giveth you, that you 
shall erect for you great stones, and plaster them with 
lime; and thou shalt write upon them all the words of 
this law, when you go over to enter the land which the 


638 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHAP. 


Lord your God giveth you, a land whose fruits are rich 
as milk and producing honey, as the Lord God of your 
fathers hath said to you. When you pass over Jordana, 
you shall erect the stones that I command you on the 
mountain of Ebal, and plaster them with lime; and you 
shall build there an altar before the Lord your God, an 
altar of stone, not lifting up iron upon it. With perfect 
stones ye shall build an altar to the Lord your God, 
and offer sacrifices upon it before the Lord your God. 
And you shall immolate the consecrated victims, and eat 
there, and rejoice before the Lord your God. And upon 
the stones you shall write all the words of this law with 
writing deeply (engraven) and distinct, which shall be 
read in one language, but shall be interpreted in seventy 
languages. [JerusaLEm. And you shall write upon 
the stones all the glorious words of this law in writing 
deep and plain, to be well read, and to be interpreted in 
seventy tongues. ] 

And Mosheh and the priests, the sons of Levi, spake 
with all the people, saying: Listen, O Israel, and hear : 
This day are you chosen to be a people before the Lord 
your God. Hearken, therefore, to the Word of the Lord 
your God, and perform His commandments which I 
command you to-day. And Mosheh instructed the 
people that day, saying: These tribes shall stand to bless 
the people on the mountain of Gerezim when you have 
passed the Jordan,—Shemeon, Levi, Jehudah, Issakar, 
Joseph, and Benjamin; and these tribes shall stand (to 
pronounce) the curses on the mountain of Ebal,—Reu- 
ben, Gad, Asher, Zebulon, Dan, and Naphtali. And the 
Levites proclaimed and said to every man of Israel with 
a high voice: Six tribes shall stand on Mount Gerezim, 
and six on Mount Ebal; and the ark, the priests, and 
Levites in the midst. In blessing they shall turn their 
faces towards Mount Gerezim, and say : 


XXVIL. ] ON DEUTERONOMY. 639 


Blessed shall be the man who maketh not an image or 
form, or any similitude which is an abomination before 
the Lord, the work of the craftsman’s hand, and who 
placeth not such in concealment. In cursing, they shall 
turn their faces toward Mount Ebal, and say: Accursed 
be the man who maketh an image, figure, or any simili- 
tude which is an abomination before the Lord, the work 
of the craftsman’s hand, or who placeth such in conceal- 
ment. And all of them shall respond together, and say, 
Amen. Accursed is he who contemneth the honour of 
his father or his mother. And all of them shall answer 
together, and say, Amen. Accursed is he who shall 
transfer the boundary of his neighbour. And all of them 
shall answer together, and say, Amen. Accursed is he 
who causeth the pilgrim, who is like the blind, to wander 
from the way. And all of them shall answer together, 
and say, Amen. [Jerusatem. Six tribes of them shall 
stand on Mount Gerezim, and six tribes on Mount Ebal. 
And the ark, with the priests and Levites in the midst. 
And all Israel, here and there, turning their faces 
towards Mount Gerezim, shall open their mouth in 
benediction: Blessed be the man who hath not made an 
image, or a figure, or any similitude which the Tord 
hateth, and which is an abomination before Him, (being) 
the work of man’s hand, and who hath not hidden such. 
But in pronouncing the curses let them turn their faces 
toward Mount Ebal, and say: Accursed be the man who 
shall make an image, or figure, or any similitude which 
the Lord hateth, and which is an abomination to Him, 
the work of man’s hands; or the man who hath con- 
cealed such. And all the people shall answer them, and 
say, Amen. Accursed be the man who changeth the 
bound mark. Accursed 26 the man who maketh the 
wayfarer, who is like the blind, to wander from the 
way. And all the people shall answer, and say, Amen.] 


640 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cuap. 


Accursed be he who perverteth the judgment of the 
stranger, the widow, and the fatherless. And all shall 
answer together, and say, Amen. Accursed is he who 
lieth with his father’s wife, because he uncovereth his 
father’s skirt. And all shall answer together, and say, 
Amen. <Accursed is he who lieth with a beast. And all 
shall answer together, and say, Amen. Accursed is he 
who lieth with his sister, the daughter of his father or 
mother. And all shall answer together, and say, Amen. 
Accursed is he who shall 116 with his mother-in-law. 
And all shall answer together, and say, Amen. [Jeru- 
saLem. Accursed is he who heth with his mother-in- 
law. And all shall answer togther, and say, Amen.] 
Accursed is he who attacketh his neighbour wit slander 
in secret. And all shall answer together, and say, 
Amen. <Accursed is he who receiveth hire to kill and to 
shed innocent blood. And all shall answer together, 
and say, Amen. 

The twelve tribes, each and every, shall pronounce 
the blessings altogether, and the curses altogether. In 
blessing, they shall turn their faces (in pronouncing) 
word by word towards Mount Gerezim, and shall say : 
Blessed is the man who confirmeth the words of this law 
to perform them. In cursing, they shali turn their 
faces towards Mount Ebal, and say: Accursed is the man 
who confirmeth not the words of this law to perform 
them. And all shall answer together, and say, Amen. 

These words were spoken at Sinai, and repeated in | 
the tabernacle of ordinance, and (again) the third time 
on the plains of Moab, in twelve sentences (words), as 
the word of every tribe ; and each several commandment 
(was thus) ratified by thirty and six adjurations, 

XXVIII. And it shall be, if you will diligently 
hearken to the Word of the Lord your God, to observe 
and perform all the commandments which I command 


XXVIII. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 641 


you this day, that the Lord your God will set you on 
high, and exalt you above all the nations of the earth; 
and all these blessings shall come upon you, and abide 

. with you, for that you will have hearkened to the Lord 
your God. 

Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed in the 
field. Blessed shall be the offspring of your womb, the 
fruits of your ground, the oxen of your herd, and the 
flocks of your sheep. Blessed shall be the basket of 
your first fruits, and the first cakes of your flour. 
Blessed shall you be in your coming in to your houses of 
instruction, and blessed shall you be when you go out 
to your affairs. [Jerusacesm. Blessed shall you bein the 
baskets of your first fruits, and in your wheaten cakes. 
Blessed shall you be when you go in to your houses of 
instruction, and blessed when you go out of them.] 
The Word of the Lord will cause your enemies who rise 
up against you to hurt you, to be broken before you. 
By one way they will come out to’fight against you, but 
by seven ways they shall be dispersed in fleeing before 
you. The Lord will command the blessing upon you 
in your treasuries, and on all that you put your hands 
unto, and will bless you in the land which the Lord 
your God giveth you. The Word of the Lord will 
establish you to be a holy people before Him, as He 
hath said unto you, when you keep the commandments 
of the Lord your God, and walk in the ways that are 

*right before Him. And all the nations of the earth 
will see that the Name is written by (His own) appoint- 
ment on the tephillin that are upon thee, and will be 
afraid of thee. And the Word of the Lord will make 
thee to abound in good, in the offspring of thy womb, 
and the increase of thy cattle, and in the fruit of thy 
ground, in the land which the Lord hath promised to 
thy fathers.—Four keys are in the hand of the Lord of 


642 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHaP. 


all the world, which He hath not delivered into the 
hands of any secondary power: 5 the key of life, and of 
the tombs, and of food, and of rain; and thus did 
Mosheh the prophet speak :—The Lord will open to you 
His good treasure which is with Him in the heavens, and 
will give you the rain of your land in its season; the 
early in Marchesvan, and the latter in Nisan; and will 
bless you in all the works of your hands; and you will 
lend to many peoples, but shall have no need to borrow. 
And the Word of the Lord will appoint you to be kings 
and not subjects,® and to be ennobled and not abased, 
when you have hearkened to the commandments of the 
Lord your God which I command you this day to keep 
and perform. Decline not from any of these words that 
I teach you to-day either to the right or the left, in 
walking after the idols of the Gentiles to serve them. 

When Mosheh the prophet began to pronounce the 
words of threatening, the earth trembled, the heavens 
were moved, the sun and moon were darkened, the stars 
withdrew their beams, the fathers of the world cried 
from their sepulchres, while all creatures were silent, the 
very trees waved not their branches. The fathers of the 
world answered and said, Woe to our children should 
they sin, and bring these maledictions upon them; for 
how will they bear them? lest destruction be executed 
on them, and no merit of ours protect, and there be no 
man to stand and intercede on their behalf! Then fell 
the Bath-kol from the high heavens, and said, Fear not,’ 
ye fathers of the world; if the merit of all generations 
should fail, yours shall not; and the covenant which I 
have confirmed with you shall not be annulled, but will 
(still) overshadow them. 

Mosheh the prophet answered and said, Whomsoever I 
threaten I threaten conditionally, saying, If you hearken 


Aen 2 ₪ , 
Tiphsera, “a viceroy.” * Hedistin, “ plebeians,”’ 


XXVIII] ON DEUTERONOMY. 643 


not to the Word of the Lord your God in neither 
observing nor doing all my commandments and statutes 
which I command you this day, then shall all these 
maledictions come upon and cleave unto you. 

Accursed shall you be in the city and in the field. 
Accursed shall be the basket of your first fruits, and the 
first cakes of your flour. Accursed the children of your 
wombs, the fruits of your ground, the oxen of your herds, 
and the sheep of your flocks. Accursed shall you be 
in your going into the houses of your theatres, and the 
places of your public shows, to make void the words of 
the law; and accursed shall you be in your coming 
out to your worldly affairs. The Word of the Lord will 
send forth curses among you to curse your wealth, and 
confusion to confound your prosperity, and vexation 
with all that you put your hands to do, until He hath 
undone you, and you perish soon on account of the 
wickedness of your doings when you have forsaken 
My worship. The Word of the Lord will make 
the pestilence to cleave to you, to consume you from off 
the land which you are going to inherit. The Word of 
the Lord will smite you with abscess and inflammation, 
and fire in the bones that will burn up the marrow, and 
with fearful imaginations in the thoughts of the heart ; 
and with the naked sword, and with blasting, and the 
jaundice of Macedonia, which shall follow you to your 
beds, until you are destroyed. 

And the heavens above you shall be as brass which 
sweateth,! but that will not yield you any dew or rain ; 
and the ground under you be as iron which sweateth 
not, nor maketh green the trees, nor yieldeth spiceries, 
fruits, nor herbs. After the rain which cometh down 
on the earth, the Lord will send a wind that shall drive 


1 Mezia, root, zua, sudavit, but also contremuit, percussus est. 


(Query.) 


644 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


dust and ashes upon the herbage of your fields; and 
calamity will fall upon you from the heavens, until you 
are consumed, 

The Word of the Lord will cause you to be broken 
before your enemies: by one way you will go out to 
battle, but by seven ways shall you flee confounded 
before them, to become an execration in all tke king- 
doms of the earth. And your carcases will be cast out 
to be meat for all the fowls of the sky, and for the 
beasts of the earth, and no one will scare them away 
from your corpses. [JeRUsaLEM. And no one shall 
drive them away.] And the Word of the Lord will 
smite you with the ulcers with which the Mizraee were 
smitten, and with hemorrhoids that blind the sight, and 
with blotches, and with erysipelas,? from which you will 
not be able to be healed. [Jerusatem. The Word of 
the Lord will smite you with the ulcer of Mizraim, and 
with hemorrhoids, and with the blotch, aud with scurvy, 
which cannot be healed.] The Word of the Lord will 
smite you with fearfulness which bewildereth the brain, 
and with blindness and stupor of heart. And you will 
seek good counsel for enlargement from your adversities, 
but there will be none among you to show the truth, so 
that you will grope in darkness like the blind who have 
none passing by the road to see how to direct them in 
the way; nor shall you prosper in your ways, but be 
oppressed and afflicted all the days, without any to 
deliver. 

Thou wilt betroth a wife, but another man will have 
her ; thou wilt build a house, but not dwell in it; thou 
wilt plant a vineyard, but not make it common. Your 
oxen will be killed, you looking on, but without eating 
of them; your asses will be taken away from before 
you, but they will not be returned; your sheep will be 


2 Or, “ prurigo.” 


XXVIII. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 645 


delivered over to your enemies, and there will for you 
be no deliverance; your sons and daughters will be 
given up to another people, and your eyes see it, and 
grow dim because of them from day to day; and in 
your hand will be no good work by which you may 
prevail in prayer before the Lord your Father who is in 
heaven, that He may save you. [JeRusatem. Your 
sons and daughters shall be delivered unto another 
people, while your eyes behold and fail on account 
of them all the day; nor will you have the good 
works to give satisfaction unto God, that He might 
redeem you.] ‘The fruitage of your ground, and of all 
your labour, will a people whom thou hast not known 
devour, and thou shalt be oppressed and trodden down 
all the days. And you will be maddened by the venge- 
ance, and shaken by the sight of your eyes that you 
will see. The Word of the Lord will smite you with a 
sore ulcer in the knees, because you bent (them) in the 
matter of the transgression ; and in the legs, by which 
you ran into it; for if you be not converted to the law 
you cannot be saved, but will be beaten by it from the 
sole of your feet unto the crown of your head. 

The Lord will make you and your king whom you 
may set over you to go away among a people that 
neither you nor your fathers have known; and you will 
carry tribute to peoples who worship idols of wood and 
stone. And if the thought of your heart be to worship 
their idols, you shall be for astonishment, for proverbs 
and tales, among the sons of the Gentiles where the Lord 
will have scattered you. 

You will carry much seed into the field, but gather in 
little, for the locust shall eat it. [Jerusatem. You will 
carry out, but collect little, for the locust will devour 
it.] You will plant vineyards and till them, but will 
uot drink the wine nor press out the vintage, because 


646 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


the worm will have consumed it. You will have olive 
trees in all your borders, but will not be anointed with 
oil, for your olive trees will fail. [Jerusatem. But 
with oil you will not be anointed, for the bloom of your 
olive trees shall be destroyed.] You will beget sons 
and daughters, but they will yield you no advantage, 
for they shall go into captivity. All ‘the trees and fruits 
of your land the locusts will destroy. (JERUSALEM. 
Robbers shall take possession of the trees and the fruits 
of your land.] The uncircumcised who dwelleth among 
you will rise above you with ascension upon ascension, 
but you will go downwards by descent after descent. 
He will lend to you, but you will not lend to him; he 
will be the master, and you the servant. 

And all these curses will come on you, and will follow 
and cleave to you until you have perished, because you 
would not hearken to the Word of the Lord your God, 
to observe His commandments and statutes which He 
had commanded you. And they will be upon you for 
signs and portents, and upon your children for ever ; for 
that you would not serve before the Lord your God 
cheerfully, with rightness of heart for the abundance of 
all good. But you will serve your enemies whom the 
Word of the Lord will send against you, in hunger, 
thirst, nakedness, and the want of every good ; and they 
will put an iron yoke upon your necks until it hath 
worn you away. The Word of the Lord will cause a 
people to fly upon you from afar, from the ends of 
the earth, swift as an eagle flieth; a people whose 
language thou wilt not understand; a people hard 
in visage, who will not respect the old nor have 
pity on the young. [Jerusateu. A people hard in 
visage, who will not respect the aged nor have mercy on 
the children.] And they will consume the increase of 
your cattle and the fruit of your ground till you are 


XXVIIL | ON DEUTERONOMY. 647 


wasted away; for they will leave you neither corn, oil, 
wine, herds, nor flocks, until the time that they have 
destroyed you. And they will shut you up in your 
cities until they have demolished your high walls 
whereby you trusted to be saved in all your land; for 
they shall besiege you in all your cities, in the whole 
land which the Lord your God gave you. And the 
children of your wombs shall be consumed; for you will 
eat them in the famine, even the flesh of your sons and 
daughters, whom the Lord your God did give you, by 
reason of the anguish and oppression wherewith your 
enemies shall oppress you. The man who is gentle and 
refined among you will look with evil eyes upon his 
brother, and the wife who reposeth on his bosom, and 
upon the rest of his children who remain. He will not 
give to one of them of the flesh of his children which 
he eateth, because nothing remaineth to him im the 
anguish and straitness with which 1 will straiten you in 
all your cities. She who is delicate and luxurious among 
you, who hath not ventured to put the sole of her foot 
upon the ground from tenderness and delicacy, will look 
with evil eyes upon the husband of her bosom, upon 
her son and her daughter, and the offspring she hath 
borne; for she will eat them in secret, through the want 
of all things, by reason of the anguish and oppression 
with which your enemies shall oppress you in your 
cities. [JERusatem. The man who is gentle and 
most tender among you will look with evil eyes upon 
his brother, and on the wife of his youth, and on the 
rest of his children who remain. She who is tender and 
delicate among you, who hath not attempted to walk 
with her feet upon the ground from delicacy and ten- 
derness, will look with evil eyes on the husband of her 
youth, and on her son and her daughter. ] 

If you observe not to perform all the commands of 


648 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


this law written in this book, to reverence this glorious 
and fearful Name, The Lord your God, the Word of 
the Lord will hide the Holy Spirit from you, when the 
plagues come upon you and your children, great and 
continuous plagues which will not leave you, and 
grievous and continual evils that will grow old upon 
your bodies; and will turn upon you all the woes which 
were sent upon the Mizraee before which thou wast 
afraid, and they shall cleave to you; and evils also that 
are not written in the book of this law will the Word 
of the Lord stir up against you until you are consumed. 
And you who were as the stars of heaven for multitude 
will be left a few people, because you hearkened not to 
the Word of the Lord your God. And as the Word 
of the Lord rejoiced over you to do you good, and to 
multiply you, so will He rejoice (in sending) against 
you strange nations to destroy and make you desolate, 
and you shall be uprooted from the land which you are 
going to possess. And the Lord will disperse you 
among all nations, from one end of the earth to the 
other, and you shall be tributaries to the worshippers of 
idols of wood and stone which neither thou nor thy 
fathers have known. And if your mind be divided 
to worship their idols, He will send (that) between you 
and those natious that you shall have no repose or rest 
for the sole of your feet, and will give you there a fear- 
ful heart which darkens the eyes and wears out the 
soul. And your life will be in suspense; you will be 
in dread day and night, and have no assurance of your 
life. In the morning you will say, O that it were 
evening! for afflictions will make the hours of the 
day longer before you; and at evening you will say, 
O that it were morning! for afflictions will make the 
hours of the night longer before you, because of the 
terror of your heart; for you will be in stupor by a 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 649‏ [.אזצצ 


vision of your eyes, which you will see for punishment, 
and be terrified. 

And the Word of the Lord will bring you captive 
to Mizraim in ships through the Sea of Suph, by the 
way you passed over, of which I said to you, No more 
shall you see it. [Jurtsatem. And the Word of the 
Lord will cause you to return into Mizraim in gaileys,3 
by the way of which I said to you, Ye shall see it no 
more.] And there will you be sold to your enemies, at 
the beginning for a dear price, as artificers, and after- 
ward at a cheap price, as servants and handmaids, until 
you be worthless and (be consigned) to unpriced 
labour, and there be none who will take you.* 

ANIX. These are the words of the covenant which 
the Lord commanded Mosheh to ratify with the chil- 
dren of Israel in the land of Moab, besides that 
covenant which He ratified with them at Horeb. 

And Mosheh called to all Israel, and said to them: You 
have seen all the plagues which the Word of the Lord 
wrought in the land of Mizraim on Pharoh and all his 
servants, and all the inhabitants of that land; those 
great temptations, signs, and wonders which you saw 
with your eyes. And the Word of the Lord hath 
given you a heart not to forget, but to understand; 
eyes, not to blink, but to sce; ears, not to be stopped, 
but to listen with: yet you have forgotten the law with 
your heart, and have blinked with your eyes, and have 
stopped your ears, unto the time of this day. And I 
have led you forty years in the wilderness; your gar- 
ments have not become old upon your bodies, nor your 
shoes worn away from your feet. You have not eaten 
leavened bread, nor drunk wine new or old; and My 
law hath been diligently delivered in your schools, that 
you might be occupied therein, and you might know 
: 3 Be-libranaia. + Or, “and there be none to bring in.” 

FE 


650 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [claP. 


that Iam the Lord your God. And you came to this 
place; and Sihon king of Heshbon and Og king of 
Mathnan came out to meet us in battle array, and we 
smote them, and subdued their land, and gave it for an 
inheritance to the tribe of Reuben, Gad, and the half 
tribe of Menasheh. Keep, therefore, the words of this 
covenant and perform it, that you may have prosperity 
in all that you do. [Jenvsatem. And you shall keep 
the words of this covenant and perform them, that you 
may prosper in all that you do.] 


SECTION LI. 
NITSTSABIM. 

310581 the prophet said: I have called you not in 
secret, but while standing this day all of you before the 
Lord your God; the princes of your sanhedrin, the 
chiefs of your tribes, your elders and your officers, all 
men of Israel, your little ones, your wives, and your 
sojourners who are in your camps, from the hewer of 
your wood to the filler of your water, that you may 
enter into the covenant of the Lord your God, and may 
have in remembrance the oath which the Lord your 
God deth ratify with you this day: [JErusaLes. Your 
little ones, wives, and sojourners within your camps, 
from the hewer of your wood to the filler of your water, 
that you may not transgress the covenant of the Lord 
your God, nor the oath which He confirmeth with you 
this day :[ that you may stand to-day before Him a 
purified people; and that He may be a God to you, as 
He hath spoken to vou, and as He did swear unto 
Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob. 

And not with you only do I ratify this covenant, and 
attest this adjuration; but all the generations which 
have arisen from the days of old stand with us to-day 


XXIX.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 651 


before the Lord our God, and all the generations which 
are to arise unto the end of the world, all of them 
stand with us here this day. [Jerusatum. All the 
generations which have arisen from the days of old 
until now stand with thee to-day before the Lord your 
God, and all the generations which are to arise after us 
stand also here with us to-day.] For you know the 
number of the years that we dwelt in the land of 
Mizraim, and the mighty works which were wrought 
for us among the nations through which you have 
passed. You have seen their abominations, and their 
idols of wood and stone which they have set forth in 
the streets, and the idols of silver and gold that they 
have placed with themselves in the houses, shutting the 
doors after them lest they should be stolen. Beware, 
then, lest there be among you now or hereafter a man, 
woman, family, or Leite, whose heart may be turned 
away to wander any day from the service of the Lord 
our God to worship the idols of those nations ; or lest 
there be among you the error which striketh root (in 
them) whose heart wandereth after his sin; for the 
beginning of sin may be sweet, but its end is bitter as 
the deadly wormwood; [JERusatem. You have seen 
their hateful things and their abominations, the idols of 
wood and stone, of silver and gold; idols of wood and 
stone set forth in the streets, but those of silver and 
gold kept with themselves in the house because they 
were afraid they would be stolen....... Lest there be 
among you man or woman, family or tribe, whose heart 
is turned away this day from the Lord our God to go 
and worship the idols of these people, or there be a 
man among you whose heart pondereth upon sin, which 
is like a root struck into the earth; for its beginning 
may be sweet as honey, but its end will be bitter as the 
deadly wormwood;] or it be that when he heareth 
2 FR 


652 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


the words of this curse he become reprobate in his 
heart, saying: I shall have peace, though I go on in the 
strength of the evil desires of my heart: so that he will 
add presumption to the sins of ignorance. It will not 
be pleasing to the Lord to forgive him; for the Lord’s 
anger and indignation will wax hot against that man, 
and all the words of the curses written in this book 
will rest upon him, and the Lord will blot out the 
memorial of his name from under the heavens. And 
the Lord will separate him unto evil, from all the tribes 
of Israel, according to all the maledictions of the cove- 
nant which are written in this book. And the genera- 
tious of your children who will arise after you, and the 
stranger who will come from a far-off land, when they 
see the plagues of that land, and the afflictions which 
the Lord will have sent upon it, the whole land burnt 
with brimstone, salt, and fierce heat, no longer fit for 
sowing, nor productive of a blade of any springing 
herbage ; ruined, as Sedom and Amorah, Admah and 
Zeboim, were overthrown by the Word of the Lord in 
His wrath and indignation ; then all people will say : 
Why hath the Lord done so unto this land? What 
meaneth the strength of this great anger? And they 
will say, Because they forsook the covenant of the 
Lord, the God of their fathers, which He made with 
them when He brought them ont of the land of Miz- 
raim. But they went after their evil desires, and 
served the gods of the Gentiles, and worshipped gods 
which they had not known nor had any part with. 
Aud the anger of the Lord waxed strong agaiust this land, 
to bring upon it all the curses written in this book. 
And the Lord hath made them to wander forth from their 
country with anger, indignation, and wrath, and hath 
cast them into captivity in another land until this day. 
The 500266 things are manifest before the Lord our 


Xxx. ] ON DEUTERONOMY. 653 


God, and He will take vengeance for them; but the 
things that are revealed are delivered unto us and to our 
children for ever, to perform by them the thing that is 
right, for the confirmation of all the words of this law. 
XXX. And it will be, when all these words of 
blessings, or their contraries, which I have set in order 
before you shall have come upon you, you will be 
converted in your hearts to return unto My fear, in all 
the dispersions (among) the nations where the Lord will 
have scattered you. The upright of you will be 
favoured with a blessed repentance; and though you 
have sinned, yet shall your repentance come up unto the 
glorious throne of the Lord your God, if you wil] 
hearken to His Word according to all that I hav 
commanded you this day, you, and your children, with 
all your heart and with all your soul. And His Word 
will accept your repentance with favour, and will have 
mercy upon you, and He will gather you again from all 
the nations whither the Lord your God had scattered 
you. Though you may be dispersed unto the ends of 
the heavens, from thence will the Word of the Lord 
gather you together by the hand of Elijah the great 
priest, and from thence will He bring you by the hand 
of the King Meshiha. And the Word of the Lord your 
God will bring you into the land which your fathers 
possessed by inheritance, and you shall possess it, and 
He will bless you and increase you more than your 
fathers. And the Lord your God will take away the 
foolishness of your heart, and of your children’s heart ; 
for He will abolish evil desire from the world, and create 
good desire, which will give you the dictate to love the 
Lord your God with all your heart and soul, that your 
lives may flow on for evermore. And the Word of the 
Lord your God will send these curses upon your enemies- 
who have oppressed you in your captivities, and such as 


654 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


have hated and persecuted, to destroy you. But you 
shall return, and be obedient to the Word of the Lord, 
and do all His commandments that I command you this 
day. And the Lord your God will make you to abound 
in good; for you shall prosper in all the works of your 
hands, in the offspring of thy womb, the increase of thy 
cattle, and the produce of your land, for good; for the 
Word of the Lord will return, to rejoice over you, to bless 
you, as He rejoiced over your fathers, if you will hearken to 
the Word of the Lord your God in keeping His command- 
ments and statutes which are written in the book of this 
law, when you have returned to the fear of the Lord 
your God with all your heart and with all your soul. 
For this commandment which I command you to-day 
is not hidden from you, nor afar off. It is not in the 
heavens, that thou shouldst say, Who will ascend for us 
into heaven, and bring it to us to make us hear, that we 
may do it? Neither is it beyond the great sea, that 
thou shouldst say, Who will go beyond the sea for us, 
and fetch it for us to make us hear, that we may do it? 
For the Word is nigh you, in your schools ;* open your 
mouth, that you may meditate on it; purify your hearts, 
that you may perform it. Behold, I have set before you 
this day the way of life, wherein is the recompense of 
the reward of good unto the righteous, and the way of 
death, wherein is the retribution of the wages of evil 
unto the wicked. (JeRusatem. The law is not in 
the heavens, that thou shouldst say, O that we had one 
like Mosheh the prophet to ascend into heaven, and bring 
it to us, and make us hear its commands, that we may do 
them! ‘Neither is the law beyond the great sea, that 
thou shouldst say, O that we had one like Jonah the 
prophet, who could descend into the depths of the sea, 
and bring it to us, and make us hear its commands, that 
* Be-beth medrashkun, 


XXXI.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 655 


we may do them! For the word is very nigh you, in 
your mouth, that you may meditate upon it, and in your 
hearts, that you may perform it. See, behold, I have 
set before you this day the way of life, which is the path 
of the good, and the way of death, which is the path of 
the evil.] For 1 teach you to-day to love the Lord 
your God, and to walk in the ways that are right before 
Him, and to keep His commandments, statutes, and 
judgments, and live and multiply; that the Lord your 
God may bless you in the land into which you are 
entering to possess it. But if you think in your heart 
that you will not obey, but will go astray to worship the 
idols of the nations, and serve them, I proclaim to you 
this day, that you will perish, and will not prolong your 
days on the land to which you are to pass over the 
Jordan to possess it. I attest this day, not only you, 
who are to pass away from this world, but the heavens 
and the earth, that I have set before you life and death, 
blessing and its reverse. Choose therefore the way of 
life, even the law, that you and your children may live 
the life of the world to come; that you may love the 
Lord thy God, to obey His Word, and keep close unto 
His fear; for the law in which you occupy yourselves 
will be your life in this world,® and the prolongment 
of your days in the world® that cometh; and you shall 
be gathered together at the end of the scattering,®° and 
dwell upon the land which the Lord sware to your fathers, 
to Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, to give it unto them. 


SECTION LII. 
VAIYELEK. 
פצג. ד רא‎ Mosheh went into the tabernacle of the 
house of instruction,’ and spake these words unto all. 
5 Or, “age.” 5 Or, “ captivity.” 7 Beth ulphana, 


656 TARGUM OF PALESTINE גזוס]‎ 


Israel, and said to them: I am the son of a hundred 
and twenty years this day. I am no more able to go 
out and come in, and the Word of the Lord hath said 
to me: Thou shalt not go over this Jordan. The Lord 
your God, and His Shekinah, will go aver before you. 
He will destroy those nations, and you shall possess 
them. Jehoshua also will go before you, as the Lord 
hath said. And the Lord will execute judgment on 
them, as He did on Sihon and Og kings of the Amoraee, 
and the people of their land, whom He destroyed. And 
the Word of the Lord will deliver them up before you, 
and you shall do to them according to all the com- 
mandment that I have commanded you. Be strong, 
then, and of good courage, fear not, nor be dismayed 
before them; for the Shekinah of the Lord your God 
will be the Leader of you, He will not forsake nor be 
far from you. 

And Mosheh called Jehoshua from among the 
people, and said to him: Be thou strong, and of good 
courage ; for thou art appointed to go with this people 
to the land which the Word of the Lord sware to your 
fathers to give them, and thou art to divide it among 
them. And the Shekinali of the Word of the Lord will 
go before thee, and His Word will be thy helper; He 
will not forsake nor be far from thee; fear not, nor be 
dismayed. 

And Mosheh wrote this law, and delivered it to the 
priests the sons of Levi, who bare the ark of the Lord’s 
covenant, and to all the sages of Israel. And Mosheh 
commanded them, saying: At the end of seven years in 
the time of the year of remission, at the feast of Taber- 
nacles, when all Israel cometh to appear before the 
Lord your God, in tbe place that He will choose, you 
shall read this law before all Israel while they listen. 
Assemble the people, the men, that they may learn, 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 657‏ [,נצאצ 


the women, that they may hear instruction, the 
children, that they may partake the benefit (reward) of 
those who bring them, and your sojourners who are in 
your cities, that they may behold the majesty of the 
Jaw, and be reverent all of them before the Word of the 
Lord your God, and observe to do all the words of this 
law. Let their children also, who know not, hear, and 
learn to fear the Lord your God all the days that you 
live in the land to inherit which you pass over Jordan. 
Unto three of the just was it told that the time of 
their death was drawing nigh, and that they should not 
attain to the days of their fathers; and each of them 
had been appointed a prince in his days; Jakob our 
father, David the king, and Mosheh the prophet; for 
thus it is written: And the Lord said unto Mosheh, 
Behold, thy day approacheth when thou must die. 
Call Jehoshua, and stand both of you in the tabernacle 
of ordinance, that 1 may give him charge. And 
Mosheh and Jehoshua went, and stood in the taber- 
nacle of ordinance. And the glorious Shekinah of the 
Lord revealed itself at the tabernacle in the pillar of the 
Cloud, and the pillar of the Cloud stood over the door 
of the tabernacle, and Mosheh and Jehoshua stood 
without. And the Lord said to Mosheh, Behold, thou 
wilt lie down in the dust with thy fathers, and thy soul 
shall be treasured in the treasury of eternal life with 
thy fathers: but this wicked people will rise up and go 
astray after the idols of the nations among whom they 
come, and will forsake My worship, and change My 
covenant which I have made with them. [JeRusaeu. 
They will forsake, and will profane the statutes I have 
confirmed with them.] Then My anger will be kindled 
against them in that day, and I shall abhor them, and 
remove My Shekinah from them, and they will become 
a prey, and many evils and troubles shall befall them. 
2 5 


8 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHap. 


And they will say at that time, with adjuration, Is it 
not because the Shekinah of my God dwelleth not 
among me, that all these evils have befallen me? But 
I will indeed remove My Shekinah from them at that 
time, until they have dwindled away, to receive the 
punishment of their sins for all the evil they have 
wrought, because they turned themselves after the idols 
of the nations. And now, write you this hymn, and 
teach the children of Israel; put it upon their lips, 
that this hymn may be before them, for a witness 
against the children of Israel. For I will bring them 
into the land which I promised to their fathers, (a land) 
producing milk and honey, and they will eat and be 
satisfied : but (after that they have) waxen fat they will 
turn away to the idols of the Gentiles and worship 
them; so will they provoke Me to anger, and abolish 
My covenant. And when these many evils and 
troubles shall come upon them, then will this hymn 
bear witness to them for a testimony ; for it is revealed 
before Me that it will not be forgotten on the lips of 
their children: for their evil disposition to which they 
are yielding to-day, even before I bring you into the 
promised land, is known to Me. 

And Mosheh wrote this hymn, and taught the chil- 
dren of Israel. And He commanded Jehoshua bar 
Nun, saying: Be strong and of good courage; for thou 
art to bring the sons of Israel into the land I have pro- 
mised to them, and My Word shall be thy Helper. 
And when 108061 had finished to write the words of 
this law upon parchment® to complete them, [JERu- 
saLem. When Mosheh had completed to write the ₪10- 
rious words of this law until they were finished,] he com- 
manded the Levites who bare the ark of the Lord’s 
covenant, saying: Take the book of this law, and put 


5 Gevila, which siguifies also ‘“ freestone,” 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 659‏ [,צזאצצ 


it into a chest on the right side of the ark of the 
covenant of the Lord your God, that it may be for a 
testament to you. For your rebellion is revealed 
before me, and the obduracy of your neck. Behold, 
while I am yet alive among you to-day ye are rebellious 
before the Lord; but how much more when I am dead! 
(Jervsates. How much more when I am dead!] 
Gather together to me all the sages of your tribes and 
your officers, and I will speak all these words in their 
hearing, and will call heaven and earth to bear witness 
against them. For I know that after my death cor- 
rupting you will corrupt your works, and go astray 
from the way I have commanded you, and that evil will 
befall you in the end, because you will do what is wrong 
before the Lord in provoking Him to anger. And 
Mosheh spake in the hearing of all the congregation of 
Israel the words of this hymn until they were ended. 


SECTION LIITI. 
HAAZINU. 


Anp when the last end of Mosheh the prophet‏ .11 א א 
was at hand, that he should be gathered from among the‏ 
world, he said in his heart; I will not attest against this‏ 
people with witnesses that taste of death in this world, be-‏ 
hold, I attest against them with witnesses which do not‏ 
taste of death in this world, and whose destination is to be‏ 
renewed in the world to come. Isaiah the prophet, when‏ 
he prophesied in the congregation of Israel, attributed‏ 
hearing to the heavens, and attentiveness to the earth ;‏ 
because (in his case) earth was nearest and heaven more‏ 
remote: but Mosheh the prophet, when he now prophe-‏ 
sied in the congregation of Israel, attributed hearing to.‏ 
the earth, and attentiveness to the heavens; because (in‏ 


630 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (CHAP. 


his case) heaven was nearest and earth more remote; 
for, so it is written, Attend, ye heavens, and I will speak ; 
and hear, O earth, the words of my mouth. My 006- 
trine shall smite the rebellious like heavy rain; but 
shall be enjoyed with pleasantness by those who receive 
instruction, as the dew: my words shall be like the 
downfalling rain of the wind that breathes upon the 
grass in the month of Marchesvan, and as the drop- 
pings of the latter rain which water the springing 
herbage of the earth in Nisan. 

[JervsaLem. When the end of Mosheh came, that 
he should be removed from the world, he said: Behold, 
I testify in this world a thing which tasteth not of 
death; so will I attest against them the heavens and 
earth which taste not of death in this world, but whose 
end is to be consumed in the world that cometh. For 
so he explained, and said: Lift up your eyes to the 
heavens, and consider the earth beneath; for the 
heavens shall dissolve like smoke, and the earth fade 
away asa garment ; but I have prepared to create new 
heavens and a new earth. Isaiuh the prophet, when he 
prophesied in the congregation of Israel, because he was 
remote from the heavens and nearest the earth, attri- 
buted hearing to the heavens, and attention to the 
earth: for so he explaineth, and saith: Hear, O 
heavens, and listen, O earth; for the Word of the Lord 
hath spoken. Mosheh the prophet, &c. (as above.) 
The doctrine of my law shall be sweet to the children 
of Israel as the rain, the word of my mouth will be 
received by them with pleasantness as the dew, as the 
wind which breathes upon the herb, and as the drops of 
the latter rain that descend and water the herbage of 
the ground in Nisan.] 

Woe to the wicked who make memorial of the Holy 
Name with blasphemies. Wherefore Mosheh, who was 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 661‏ [.נזצאא 


the Doctor of Israel, would not permit himself to pro- 
nounce the Holy Name until he had dedicated his 
mouth at the beginning of his hymn with eighty and 
five letters, making twenty and one words, and after- 
wards he spake: In the Name of the Lord I invoke 
you, O house of Israel, to ascribe glory and greatness 
before our God. [Jerusates. Mosheh the prophet 
said: Woe to the wicked who make memorial of the 
Holy Name with blasphemies. For it is not possible 
even to one of the highest angels to utter that Name 
rightly until that they have said, Holy, Holy, Holy! 
thrice. And from them did Mosheh learn not to utter 
that Name openly until he should have dedicated his 
mouth with twenty-one words which consist of eighty- 
five letters ; * and so explained he and said: Hear, ye 
heavens, and I will speak; for it is the Name. of the 
Lord. Mosheh the prophet said: O people of Israel, 1 
invoke you, in the Name of the Lord, to give glory, 
praise, and highest exaltation unto God.] 

Mosheh the prophet said: When I ascended the 
mountain of Sinai, I beheld the Lord of all the worlds, 
the Lord, dividing the day into four portions ; three 
hours employed in the law, three with judgment, 
three in making marriage bonds between man and 
woman, and appointing to elevate or to abase, and 
three hours in the care of every created thing : for so it 
is written: The Mighty One whose works are perfect, 
for all His ways are judgment, a faithful God before 
whom no iniquity comes forth, pure and upright is He. 
] 98058 .1ב‎ (The same words to)—three hours, uniting 
the marriage yoke of the husband to the wife...... a 
faithful God and true; falsehood is not before Him; 
He is just and upright in judgment. ] 

The beloved children have corrupted their good 


9 The Hebrew text of verses 1-3, to the word shem inclusive. 


662 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


works, a blemish is found upon them; a perverse 
generation which have altered their works; so shall the 
order of this world’s judgment be altered upon them. 
[JervsaLem. The children have corrupted their works, 
and not them only, but themselves also: they have so 
corrupted that the spot is upon them; a depraved and 
perverse generation which changeth its work, and the 
order of this world shall be changed upon it.] 

Can you indeed so requite the Name of the Word of 
the Lord, O foolish people, and receive the law, yet not 
be made wise? Is He not your Father who bought! 
you, who created you and established you? ([Jzn. 
Do you return this before the Lord, O people foolish 
and unwise? Is He not your Father who is in heaven, 
who bought you? He created and founded you.] 
Remember the days of old; consider the years of every 
generation ; read the books of the law, and they will 
teach you, and the books of the prophets, and they 
will tell you. [Jer. Be mindful of the days, the 
days of old, consider the years of one generation and 
another ; ask your fathers who are greater in the law 
than you, and they will teach you, the sages, and they 
will tell [.טסץ‎ When the Most High made allotment 
of the world unto the nations which proceeded from the 
sons of Noach, in the separation of the writings and 
languages of the children of men at the time? of the 
division, He cast the lot among the seventy angels, the 
princes of the nations with whom is the revelation to 
oversee the city, even at that time He established the 
limits of the nations according to the sum of the number 
of the seventy souls of Israel who went down into 
Mizraim. [Jer. When the Most High divided the 
nations by lot, and distinguished the languages of 


+ Or, “ who possessed.” 
5 “Age or generation.” The dispersion at Babel. 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 663‏ [.נזצצצ 


the children of men, He appointed the bounds of the 
peoples according to the number of the tribes of the 
Beni Israel.] 

And when the holy people fell to the lot of the Lord 
of all the world, Michael opened his lips and said : 
Let the good portion of the Name of the Lord’s Word 
be with Him. Gabriel opened his lips with thanks- 
givings, and said, Let the house of Jakob be the lot of 
His inheritance. (Jer. Because the Lord’s portion 
are His people, and the house of Jakob the lot of 
His inheritance.] He found them dwelling in the 
wilderness, in the solitude, the place of howling demons 
and thorns, the place of thirsting ; He overspread then 
with His seven glorious clouds; He taught them His 
law; He kept them as the Shekinah keepeth the apple 
of His eye. [Jer. He found them wandering in a 
desert land, in the solitude of a howling wilderness ; 
He threw over them clouds of glory; His Shekinah 
taught them the Ten Words, watched over them, and 
kept them as the apple of His eye.] As an eagle stirreth 
up and careth for his nest, and hovereth over his young, 
so did His Shekinah stir up the tents of Israel, and the 
shadow of His Shekinah overspread them; and as an 
eagle outstretcheth his wings over his young ones, 
beareth them and carrieth them upon his wings, so bare 
He them and carried them, and made them dwell upon 
the strong places of the land of Israel. [Jur. As 
an eagle stirreth up his nest, and carefully spreadeth 
out his wings, and taketh and beareth them with the 
strength of his wings.] The Word of the Lord made 
them to dwell in His land, nor suffered any among 
them to be the followers of strange worship. (Jen. 
The Lord alone 680860 them to dwell, and none 
were among them who served with strange worship.] 
He made them to dwell in the strong places of the 


664 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


land of Israel, and gave them to eat of the goodly 
produce of His field, and nourished them with the honey 
of its fruits which grow even upon the rocks, with the 
oil of its olive trees, and from branches (growing) out 
of the rocks. (Jer. He made them ride upon the 
high places of the carth, and gave them to eat of 
royal delicacies, and nourished them with honey out of 
the rock, and with oil from their olives (growing) out of 
the flinty stone of the rock.] He gave them rich butter 
of kine from the spoil of their kings, and the fat of the 
firstlings of the sheep from the prey of their sultans, 
with the choice rams and goats of the flocks of Mathnan. 
Mosheh the prophet said: If the people of Israel will 
observe the precepts of the law, it is foretold that their 
wheat granary shall be like the kidneys of oxen, and 
that from one bunch of grapes shall come forth a kor 
of red wine. (Jen. Tender oxen and choice flocks, 
goodly fatlings, rams bred in Batenaia, and goats, with 
the richest of the wheat. Mosheh the prophet said: If 
the children of Israel will observe the precepts of the 
0 from one bunch they shall drink a cup of wine.] 

But the house of Israel grew rich and wicked; they 
prospered much and possessed wealth, and forsook the 
worship of Eloah who created them, and provoked Him 
to anger who redeemed them. They moved Him to 
jealousy with strange worship, by their abominations 
they made Him angry. They sacrificed to idols, resem- 
bling devils, in whom there is no profit, to idols which 
they had not known, new gods lately made, with which 
your fathers had nothing to do. But the adorable 
Strong One who created you have you forgotten; of the 
Word of Eloha who strengthened you so often? have 
you been forgetful. And when it was manifest before 
the Lord, He was wroth, provoked thereto by His 


5 Or, “who so often gave you refuges.” 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 665‏ [.צזאצא 


beloved children who were called upon His Name 
sons and daughters. [Jer. But the house of Jeshu- 
ron ate and kicked; they became rich, and rebelled ; 
they prospered, got wealth, and forsook the Word of 
God who had created them, and refused to worship the 
Almighty who had redeemed them. They provoked 
Him to anger with their idols, by their abominations 
they made Him wroth. They sacrificed to demons in 
whom is no stability,* idols which they had not known, 
lately formed, which your fathers remembered not. The 
Almighty who created you ye have forgotten, and have 
forsaken the Word of God who gave you to be, and 
made you so many refuges. And it was manifest 
before the Lord, and He was angry, because the beloved 
children had provoked Him, even they who were beloved 
by Him as sons and daughters.] And He said, I will 
take away from them the favour of My countenance; it 
will be seen what will be the end; for they are a 
perverse generation, children who have not faith. They 
have made Me jealous by that which is not God, they 
have angered Me by their vanities: I also will provoke 
them to jealousy by a people which hath not been 
a people, by the foolish Babylonian people will I 
provoke them. [Jer. And He said, I will surely turn 
away the favour of My countenance from them; I will 
see what will be in their latter end; for they are a 
perverse generation, children in whom is no faith. They 
have moved Me to jealousy by their idols in which there 
is nothing whatever, they have provoked Me by their 
abominations ; but I also will move them to jealousy by 
a people which is not a people, by a foolish nation will 
I anger them.] For an east wind strong as fire shall 
go out before Me, and blaze in the might of My anger, 
and burn to the lowest hell; it shall consume the land 


+ Or, “ subsistence.” 


666 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (CHAP. 


with its produce, and set the foundations of the 
mountains in flame. ([Jer. For a fire shall come 
forth in the hour of My wrath, and burn to the 
lowest hell, devouring the earth and its fulness, and 
setting in flame the foundations of the hills.] And 
when they dwell in Babel they will serve their idols; for 
T have spoken in My Word to array calamities against 
them, the plague-arrows of My vengeance to destroy 
them. I will make them go into captivity in Media 
and Elam, in the captivity of Babel, the house of Agag 
who are like demons gaping with famine, and to corpses 
devoured by birds, and to stricken evil spirits of the 
noon, to Lillin and to spirits big with evil. And the 
Javanaee (Greeks) who bite with their teeth like wild 
beasts will I send against them, and will shake them by 
the hand of the Syrians venomous as basilisks, the 
serpents of the dust. (Jer. 1 have spoken in My 
Word to bring evil upon them, the arrows of My 
vengeance willI send among them: gaping with famine, 
devoured by unclean fowl, filled with evil spirits, even 
the teeth of the four kingdoms, which are like wild 
beasts,® will I send among them, with the poison of 
serpents, the reptiles of the earth.] A people who will 
come from beyond the land of Israel shall consume them 
with the stroke of the sword, and those who are left in 
the land of Israel will I throw into the terror of death, 
in the chambers here and there where they sleep; their 
young men shall perish, their maidens, their suck- 
lings, with their men and their elders. [Jer. In the 
street the sword will devour them; in the chambers 
where they sleep, the terrors of death; their young men 
and maidens, their infants and aged men.] I have 
spoken in My Word to withhold from them My Holy 
Spirit ; I will make them weak; as a man who reaps 


' Dan. vii. 


XXXII. ] ON DEUTERONOMY. 667 


his field leaveth but one upon the ground, so will I 
abolish their memory from the book of the genealog 
of mankind; (Jer. I have spoken in My Word to 
bring wrath upon them, and to cause their memorial to 
fail from among men;] but for the wrath of the enemy, 
and that their oppressors would glorify themselves 
against Me, and say, Our hand hath taken vengeance 
upon our adversaries, and all this hath not been decreed 
by the Lord ;—for they are a people lost to good counsel 
and void of understanding. O that they were intelligent 
in the law, and that they understood what they will 
become in their latter end! How will one foe pursue a 
thousand of them, and two put ten thousand of them 
to flight, unless He who is their strength deliver 
them, and the Lord avenge them! ([Jer. But that 
the wrath of the enemy would wax strong, that they 
could not prevail against their foes; and that they may 
not say, Our hand hath avenged us on our adversaries, 
and it hath not been done by the Lord ; for this people 
perish by evil counsels, and they are void of understand- 
ing. If Israel were but wise, learning the law they would 
understand what shall be in their latter end. When 
Israel was diligent in the law, and observed the com- 
mandments, one of them chased a thousand, and two of 
them put ten thousand to flight; but because they have 
sinned and vexed the Almighty to anger, He hath left 
them to the hand of their enemies. ] 

For the idols of the Gentiles are not as He who is the 
Strength of Israel ; for the Strength of Israel, when they 
have sinned, bringeth punishment upon them; but when 
they stretch forth their hands in prayer, He answereth 
and delivereth them. But the idols of the peoples of 
strange worships are of no use: but because we have 
provoked Him, and have not returned to His service, 
our adversaries are our witnesses and our judges. 


668 TARGUM OF PALESTINE גח‎ 


[Jer. For the confidence of the nations is not as our 
confidence; but because we have sinned and provoked 
Him to anger, our adversaries are made our judges.] 
For the works of this people are like the works 
of the people of Sedom, and their evil counsels 
like those of the people of Amorah; their wicked 
thoughts are as serpents’ heads; bitter therefore to them 
is their punishment which maketh desolate. Behold, 
as the bitterness of serpents when they come forth from 
their wines, (?) so shall be the bitter cup of the curse 
which they are to drink in the day of their punishment, 
and cruel as the head of asps. [Jer. For the 
works of this people are like those of the people of 
Sedom, and their thoughts like those of the people of 
Amorah: their evil works make them desolate, and become 
bitter to them. For the poison of this people is like that 
of serpents what time they drink wine, and their malice 
like the head of asps and cruel reptiles.] Are not their 
secret works all known before Me? Sealed and laid up 
are they in My treasury! Vengeance lies before Me, 
and I will recompense them at the time when their foot 
shall move to the captivity; for the day of their de- 
struction is coming near, and the evil which is prepared 
for them maketh haste. (JER. Is not this the cup of 
punishment, mixed and ordained for the wicked, sealed 
in My treasuries for the day of the great judgment? 
Vengeance is mine: I am He who repay eth; in the 
time when the foot of the righteous is moved; for the 
day of destruction for the wicked is uigh, the fire of 
Gehinam is prepared for them, and their punishment 
girdeth itself to come upon them. | 

For the Word of the Lord adjudgeth in His mercy 
the judgment of His people Israel, and for the evil He 
hath appointed upon His servants there shall be 
repentance before Him; for He knoweth that in the 


| אס‎ DEUTERONOMY. 669 


time when they have sinned the stroke of their enemies 
will be heavy upon them, and help have passed away 
from their hands, and the faithful will have failed with 
their good works and be scattered and forsaken. And 
the enemy will say, Where is the fear of Israel, their 
Strength in whom they confided, who ate the fat of their 
sacrifices, and drank the wine of their libations? Let 
Him now rise קט‎ and help you, let Him shield you 
by His Word. (Jer. For the Lord Himself will 
adjudge the judgment of the people of the children of 
Israel, and comfort His righteous servants; for it is 
manifest before Him that the hand of the nghteous will 
waver, and that they will be forsaken and cast down, 
with none to help or support them. For the Gentiles 
will say, Behold, the God of Israel is strong, in whom 
they put their trust; they brought before Him the fat 
of their sacrifices, and the wine of their libations; let 
Him who (once) was over them as a shield rise up now 
and deliver them. | 

When the Word of the Lord shall reveal Himself to 
redeem His people, He will say to all the nations: 
Behold now, that lam He who Am, and Was, and Will 
Be, and there is no other God beside Me: I, in My 
Word, kill and make alive; I smite the people of the Beth 
Israel, and I will heal them at the end of the days; and 
there will be none who can deliver them from My hand, 
Gog and his armies whom I have permitted to make war 
against them. [Jer. See now that 1 in My Word 
am He, and there is no other God beside Me. 1 
kill the living in this world, and make alive the dead 
in the world that cometh; I am He who smiteth, and I 
am He who healeth; and there is none who can deliver 
from My hand.] I have lifted My hand with an oath 
to heaven, and have said, As I exist, I will not abolish 
My oath for ever. If I whet my sword, as lightning it: 


670 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHaP. 


will prevail in the judgment of My hand. I will return 
retribution on them who afflict My people, and repay to 
their enemies the hire of their wickedness. 1 will make 
My arrows drunk with the blood of their slain, and 
the captivity of their hosts shall be the punishment 
of My people’s foes. [Jer. For 1 have uplifted My 
hand with an oath to heaven, and said, I live, and 
My Word subsisteth for ever: If I whet My sword as 
lightning, My right hand will prevail in judgment. 1 
will render punishment upon the adversaries of My 
people, I will repay them for their evil deeds. I will 
make My arrows drunk with their blood, and My sword 
shall consume their flesh; with the blood of the 
destroyers of My people, their captives, and the chieftains 
of their hosts. ] 

Rejoice, ye nations, (and) ye people of Beth Israel; 
for the blood of His servants which was shed, He hath 
avenged. He hath kept (in mind) and returned just 
vengeance upon His adversaries, and by His Word will 
He make Atonement for His land, and for His people. 
(Jer. Let the nations give praise before Him, let 
the people of Beth Israel glorify Him; for He hath 
made inquisition for the trouble of His righteous 
servants, and brought vengeance upon His enemies; 
for the sins of His people He smote the land; but He 
will make Atonement for the land, and for His people.] 

And Mosheh came from the tabernacle of the house 
of instruction, and spake all the words of this hymn, 
in the hearing of the people, he and Jehoshua bar Nun. 
And Mosheh made an end of speaking all these words 
with all Israel, and said to them: Apply your heart to all 
the words with which I bear witness to you this day, 
that you may dictate them to your children, so that they 
may observe and do all the words of this law. For 
there is no vain word in the law, unless to them who 


ON DEUTERONOMY. 671‏ [.ננצאא 


transgress it; for it is your life, and by this word you 
will prolong days upon the land that you pass over 
Jordan to inherit. (Jer. And Mosheh came and 
spake all the praise of the words of this hymn in 
the hearing of the people, he and Hoshea bar Nun. 
And Mosheh ended speaking all these words with all 
Israel, and said to them: Set your heart unto all the 
words with which I bear witness to you this day, and 
which you shall teach your children, that they may 
observe and do all the glorious words of this law. For 
it is not a vain word to you, because it is your life, and 
by this word you will multiply days upon the land that 
you pass over Jordan to inherit. ] 

And the Lord spake with Mosheh on the seventh of 
the month Adar, on the same day, saying,—It was when 
the Word of the Lord had said to him, Go up to this 
mount Ibraee, the mountain of Nebo, and he thought 
in his heart, and said, Perhaps this up-going will be 
like that to Mount Sinai; and he said, I will go and 
sanctify the people; but the Word of the Lord said to 
him, Not so at all, but,—Go thou up and view the land 
of Kenaan, which I have given to the children of Israel 
for an inheritance. And thou shalt sleep in the moun- 
tain to which thou goest up, and be gathered to thy 
people, even thou, as Aharon thy brother hath slept in 
the mountain of Omanos, and hath been gathered unto 
his people. Mosheh at once opened his mouth in prayer, 
and said, Lord of all the world, I entreat that I may not 
be as a man who had one only son, who being in 
captivity, he went and redeemed him with great price ; 
he taught him wisdom and art, espoused him to a wife, 
planted for him a royal bower, builded him a marriage 
house, prepared for him the bed, invited his companions, 
baked his bread, slew his victims, and mixed his wine; > 
yet, when the time came for his son to make glad with 


672 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [cHAP. 


his wife, and the guests were about to consecrate the 
feast ; then was that man required to go to the house of 
judgment, before the king, and be punished with the 
judgment of death; neither would they delay to execute 
his sentence, that he might see the happiness of his son. 
So have I laboured for this people; I have led them by 
Thy Word out of Mizraim, I have taught them Thy 
Law, and builded for them the tabernacle to Thy Name ; 
but now that the time hath come to pass the Jordan, I 
am punished with death! * Let it please Thee to with- 
hold from me this sentence until I have passed the 
Jordan, to see the good of Israel before I die. The 
Lord of the world answered him, and said: Because 
thou didst prevaricate with My Word in the midst of the 
children of Israel, at the Waters of Contention at Rekem, 
in the desert of Zin, and didst not sanctify Me among 
them; therefore thou mayest look over against it, but 
shalt not enter into the land that I give unto the 
children of Israel. [Jer. Because you were rebel- 
lious towards the Name of My Word, among the 
Beni Israel, at the Waters of Contention in Rekem in 
the desert of Zin; forasmuch as you did not sanctify 
Me in the midst of them, therefore thou mayest look 
over against it, but shalt not enter into the land which 
I give to the children of Israel. ] 


SECTION LIV. 
VEZOTH HABBERAKAH. 

XXXII. Ann this is the order of the Benedictions 
wherewith Mosheh the Prophet blessed the children of 
Israel before he died. And he said: 

The Lord was revealed at Sinai to give the law unto 
His people of Beth Israel, and the splendour of the glory 
of His Shekinah arose from Gebal to give itself to the 
sons of sau; but they received it not. It shined forth 


Xxx. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 673 


in majesty and glory from mount Pharan, to give itself 
to the sons of Ishmael; but they received it not. It 
returned and revealed itself in holiness unto His people 
of Beth Israel, and with Him ten thousand times ten 
thousand holy angels. He wrote with His own right 
hand, and gave them His law and His command- 
ments, out of the flaming fire. [JeRusatem. This is 
the Benediction wherewith Mosheh the prophet of the 
Lord blessed the children of Israel before he should be 
gathered, and he said: The Lord was revealed from 
Sinai to give the law unto His people of Beth Israel. 
He arose in His glory upon the mountain of Seir to give 
the law to the sons of Esau; but after they found that 
it was written therein, Thou shalt do no murder, they 
would not receive it. He revealed Himself in His glory 
on the mountain of Gebala, to give the law to the sons 
of Ishmael; but when they found that it was written 
therein, Ye shall not be thieves, they would not 
receive it. Again did He reveal Himself upon Mount 
Sinai, and with Him ten thousands of holy angels; and 
the children of Israel said, All that the Word of the 
Lord hath spoken will we perform and obey. And He 
stretched forth His hand from the midst of the flaming 
fire, and gave the Law to His people. ] 

And whatever hath befallen to the nations (hath been 
done) because He loved His people of Beth Israel, and 
all of them He hath called to be saints, to stand in the 
place of His sanctuary. And when they observed the 
precepts of the law, they were conducted at the foot of 
Thy glorious Cloud, they rested and encamped according 
to the dictate of the Word. The sons of Israel said, 
Mosheh commanded us the law, and gave it for an heri- 
tae to the tribes of Jakob. And he was king in Israel : 
when the chiefs of the people were gathered together, - 
the tribes of Israel were obedient to him. [Jur. Is it 

6 8 


014 TARGUM OF PALESTINE (CHAP. 


not all manifest and known before Him, that neither the 
sons of Esau nor of Ishmael would receive the law ? 
Nevertheless, because He loved His people of Beth Israel 
as myriads of the holy angels, though He brought upon 
them many corrections, they rested not, nor desisted 
from the doctrine of the law; and, behold, they were 
conducted and brought on at the foot of His Cloud, and 
went forward and encamped according to His Word. 
The sons of Israel 5810, Mosheh commanded us the law: 
he gave it for an inheritance and possession to the con- 
gregation of the house of Jakob. Anda king shall arise 
from the house of Jakob, when the heads of the people 
are gathered together: unto Him shall the tribes of 
Israel be obedient. | 

Let Reuben live in this world, not die the second 
death which the wicked die in the world to come; and 
let his youths be numbered with the voung men of his 
brethren of Beth Israel. (Jer. Let Reuben live in 
this world, nor die the second death which the wicked 
die in the world to come; and let his youths be with 
the men in number. | 

And this is the benediction of the tribe of Jehudah,— 
conjoined with the portion and benediction of his 
brother Shemeon ; and thus he spake: Receive, O Lord, 
the prayer of Jehudah when he goeth forth unto war, 
and bring Thou him back from war unto his people in 
peace. Let his hand take vengeance on his enemies, 
and be Thou his help and support against his foes. 
[Jer. And this is the benediction with which Mosheh 
the prophet blessed the tribe of Jehudah, and he said: 
May the Word of the Lord hearken to the prayer of 
Jehudah, and bring him back to his people from battle. 
May his hand avenge him upon his enemies, and be 
Thou a help and a support against his foes. ] 

And Mosheh the prophet blessed the tribe of Levi, 


XXXL] אס‎ DEUTERONOMY, 675 


and said, With Perfections and Lights hast Thou robed 
Aharon, the man whom Thou didst find devout before 
Thee, whom Thou didst try in the temptation, and he 
was sincere, and didst prove at the Contention Waters in 
Rekem, and he was found faithful. The tribe of Levi 
go forth to the service of the tabernacle, and separate 
themselves from their dwellings, saying of their fathers 
and mothers, I have not regarded them, and of their 
brethren, Since we were of thirty years we have not 
known them or their children, for that they abide twenty 
years in their charge according to Thy Word, and keep 
the service of the holy covenant. Apt are they in 
teaching the orders of Thy judgments to them of Beth 
Jakob, and Thy law to them of Beth Israel. Their bre- 
thren the priests put incense on the censers to restrain the 
plague in the day of Thy wrath, and offer up the burnt sa- 
crifice with acceptance at Thy altar. Bless, Lord, the sacri- 
fices of the house of Levi, who give the tenth of the tenth ; 
and the oblation of the hand of Elijah the priest, which he 
will offer on Mount Karmela, receive Thou with accept- 
ance: break the loins of Achab his enemy, and the neck 
of the false prophets who rise up against him, that the ene- 
mies of Johanan the high priest ® may not have a foot to 
stand. [Jer. And Mosheh the prophet blessed the tribe 
of Levi, and said: With the Uraia and Tummaia hast thou 
clothed Aharon the saint, rhom Thou didst try,and he was 
steadfast in the temptation, and whom Thou didst prove 
at the Waters of Contention in Rekem, and he was found 
faithful. For of the tribe of Levi it may be said, He re- 
spected not the face of his own father and mother in the 
judgment of Tamar, and knew not his brother in the 
matter of the (golden) calf, nor towards his own children 
was he moved with mercy, in the work of Zimri; for 
they have kept the word of Thy mouth, and have been 
5 According to Seder Olam, high priest in the reign of Jehoshaphat. 
262 


676 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


ready (to fulfil) the decree of Thy law. Apt are they to 
teach the orders of Thy judgments to them of Beth Jakob, 
and the decree of Thy law to the congregation of the 
tribes of Israel. They put the goodly aromatic incense 
(on the censer) to restrain Thy anger, and offer the 
perfect sacrifice with acceptance at Thy altar. Bless, 
Lord, the substance of the tribe of Levi, and receive with 
favour the oblation of his hand ; break Thou the loins of 
hisenemies, that his adversaries may fall,and rise nomore. | 

Mosheh the prophet blessed the tribe of Benjamin, 
and said: The beloved of the Lord shall abide in safety 
with Him, He will protect him all the days, and 
His Shekinah will dwell within his borders. [JER. 
Mosheh the prophet of the Lord blessed the tribe of 
Benjamin, and said: The beloved of the Lord shall 
abide with confidence by Him, He will protect him all 
the days, and within his borders will dwell the glory of 
the Shekinah of the Lord.] 

And Mosheh the prophet of the Lord blessed the 
tribe of Joseph, and said: The land of Joseph shall be 
blessed from before the Lord. From the bounty of the 
heavens shall it have goodly fruit, from the dew and 
the rain that come down from above, and from the 
bounty of the founts of the deep which rise up and flow 
to water the herbage from beneath, and with good fruit- 
age and produce that the earth maketh perfect by the 
aid (bringing out) of the sun, and with the bounty of 
the firstfruits of the trees which the ground yieldeth in 
the beginning of month after month, and with the good- 
ness of the mountain tops, through the birthright ordained 
him at the beginning by the benediction of the fathers 
who resemble the mountains, and with the goodness of 
the hills whose produce faileth not, which was given him 
in heritage by the benedictions of the mothers of old, who 
resemble the hills ; and with the goodness of the excel- 


XXx111. | ON DEUTERONOMY. 677 


lent fruits of the earth and its fulness, and the favour 
towards him of Eloah who revealed Himself to Mosheh 
at the bush in the glory of His Shekinah: let all these 
blessings be combined, and be made a diadem of gran- 
deur for the head of Joseph, and for the brow of the 
man who was chief and ruler in the land of Mizraim, 
and was the glory and honour of his brethren. The 
birthright had belonged to Reuben, but was taken from 
him and given to Joseph at the beginning; from thence 
comes the splendour of his glory and praise. For as it 
may not be that a man should work the ground with 
the firstling of his herd, so are not the children of 
Joseph to be reduced to servitude among the king- 
doms; and as the reema pusheth with his horns the 
beasts of the wilderness, so will the sons of Joseph pre- 
dominate together among the peoples in all the ends of 
the earth. Myriads will be slain in Gulgela by Hoshea 
bar Nun who hath arisen from the house of Ephraim, 
and thousands of the Midyanee by Gideon bar Yoash 
who will be of the tribe of Menasheh. (Jer. And 
Mosheh the prophet of the Lord blessed the tribe 
of Joseph, and said: Blessed be the land of Joseph 
before the Lord, with the blessing of the dew and the 
rain that come down from the heavens above, with the 
blessings of the fountains of the deep which well up 
from the earth beneath. Bounteous produce will it 
yield from the good provision of the sun; and will 
ripen its first fruits at the beginning of month and 
month. It aboundeth in fruitfulness for the righteous- 
ness’ sake of Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, the holy 
fathers who are like the mountains, and for the merit of 
Sarah, Revekah, Rahel, and Leah, the four mothers who 
are like the hills. It bringeth forth richly from the 
excellence of the earth and its fulness, and by the good 
will of Him who caused the glory of His Shekinah to 


678 TARGUM OF PALESTINE .אס‎ 


dwell in the bush. Let all these blessings come and be 
a crown upon the head of Joseph, and upon the brow of 
the man who ruled in the land of Mizraim, and was the 
brightness of his brothers’ glory. The birthright, king- 
dom, and honour are Joseph’s: for as it may not be that 
one should work with the firstling among cattle, nor bring 
the horns of the reema into servitude ; but as the ox and 
the reema push with their horns, so this people, the 
sons of the tribe of Joseph, going out to battle against 
their enemies, will slaughter kings מה‎ princes. 
Myriads of the Amoraah will be slain by Jehoshua bar 
Nun, who is of the tribe of the Beni Ephraim; thou- 
sands of the Midyanee will be slain by Gideon bar 
Yoash, who is of the tribe of the Beni Menasheh. ] 

And Mosheh the prophet blessed the tribe of Zebu- 
lon, and said: Rejoice, O house of Zebulon, in your 
going forth for your commerce, and you, O house of 
Issakar, in the tabernacles of your schools. Many 
peoples shall pray at the mountain of the sanctuary, 
thither will they bring their oblations of truth: for 
they dwell by the side of the great sea, they are nou- 
rished with (its) dainties; and they take the shell-fish 
and dye with its blood in purple the threads of their 
vestments ; and from the sands make mirrors and ves- 
sels of glass; for the treasures of their coasts are 
discovered to them. [Jer. Mosheh the prophet 
of the Lord blessed the tribe of Zebulon, and said: 
Rejoice, O ye of the house of Zebulon, when you go 
out upon your commerce; and ye of the house of 
Issakar, rejoice, when you come in unto your houses of 
learning. Behold, this people of the house of Zebulon 
will come up together to the mountain of the sanctuary 
to offer true oblations ; for they eat the revenue of the 
seas, and the treasures hidden in the sands are disclosed 
unto them. ] 


DEUTERONOMY. 679‏ אס [,זננאאצ 


Mosheh the prophet of the Lord blessed the tribe of 
Gad, and said: Blessed be He who hath made wide the 
border of Gad. He reposeth asa lion in his habitation ; 
but when he goeth out to battle against his adversaries, he 
slayeth kings and rulers, and his slaughtered ones are 
known from all the slain, for he striketh off the arm with 
the crown (of the head). And he saw that the land was 
good, and took his portion among the first ; for there was 
a place strown with precious stones and pearls; for there 
is the place where Mosheh the prophet is hidden, who, as 
he went in and out at the head of the people in this world, 
will go in and out in the world that cometh; because he 
wrought righteousness before the Lord, and taught the 
orders of the judgments to the house of Israel his people. 
(Jer. And Mosheh the prophet of the Lord blessed the 
tribe of Gad, and said: Blessed is he who hath made wide 
the border of Gad. He reposeth and inhabiteth as a lion 
and a lioness; nor will there be any kingdom or people 
who can stand before him; and when he goeth forth in 
war against his enemies, his slaughtered are known among 
the slain by the head being cut away unto the arm. And 
he saw at the beginning that a place had been prepared 
there for a sepulchre, a place strown with precious stones 
and pearls, where Mosheh the prophet, the scribe of Israel, 
was to be hidden, (who,) as he went in and out at the head 
of the people in this world, so will he go in and out in the 
world to come ; because he wrought righteousness before 
the Lord, and taught the orders of the judgments to 
the sons of Israel. ] 

And Mosheh the prophet of the Lord blessed the 
tribe of Dan, and said: The tribe of Dan is like a 
liou’s whelp, his land is watered by the streams that 
flow from Mathnan, and his border cometh unto Batania. 
[Jer. And Mosheh the prophet of the Lord blessed . 
the tribe of Dan, and said: The tribe of Dan is like 
a lion’s whelp, and his land is watered from Batanea.] 


680 TARGUM OF PALESTINE [CHAP. 


And Mosheh the prophet of the Lord blessed the 
tribe of Naphtali, and said: Naphtali is satisfied with 
favour, and hath delight in the fishes of the sea which 
falleth within his portion ; and he will be replete with 
blessings in the fruits of the vale of Genesareth which 
hath been given him from the Lord; he shall inherit 
the water of Sopheni, and the sea of Tebaria. ([Jer. 
And Mosheh the prophet of the Lord blessed 
the tribe of Naphtali, and said: Naphtali shall be 
satisfied with favour, and be filled with blessings from 
the Lord; he will have possession to the west of the 
sea of Genesareth, and to the south. ] 

And Mosheh the prophet of the Lord blessed the 
tribe of Asher, and said: Blessed is Asher of the sons 
of Jakob. He will be acceptable to his brethren, and 
‘will supply them with provender in the years of release : 
his border will produce many olives yielding oil, enough 
for him to bathe in it even his feet. The tribe of Asher 
will be sound® as iron, and their feet strong as brass 
in walking on the stony rocks; and as the days of 
their youth so shall they be strong in their age. ] 
And Mosheh the prophet of the Lord blessed the tribe 
of Asher, and said: Asher will be blessed of the children; 
he will be acceptable to his brethren, in the release of 
the land, for his ground shall produce oil like water. 
Behold, this people of Beth Asher are sound as iron 
and strong as brass; as the days of their youth so will 
be the days of their age. | 

There is no God like the God of Israel, whose Sheki- 
nah and Chariot dwell in the heavens. He will be your 
helper. He sitteth on His glorious throne in His 
majesty, in the expanse of the heavens above. The 
habitation of Eloha is from eternity; by the arm of 
His power beneath the world is upborne. He will 

5 Or, “clear, unalloyed.” 


XXXIV. ] ON DEUTERONOMY. 681 


scatter your adversaries before you, and will say by His 
Word, Destroy them. And Israel shall dwell safely as 
of old according to the benediction with which Jakob 
their father did bless them, for whose righteousness’ 
sake He will cause them to inherit the good land that 
yieldeth corn and wine; the heavens also above them 
will drop with the dews of blessing, and the rains of 
lovingkindness. Happy are you, O Israel: who of all 
the nations are like you, a people saved in the Name of 
the Word of the Lord? He is the shield of your help, and 
His sword, the strength of your excellency. And your 
enemies shall be found liars against you from terror, 
and you shall tread upon the necks of their kings. [Jrn. 
There is none like the God of Israel, whose glorious 
Shekinah dwelleth in the heavens, and His magnificence 
in the high expanse. In His abode hath His Shekinah 
dwelt before they were, and under His power He bring- 
eth? the world; and He driveth out your enemies 
before you, and saith in His word, Let them be destroyed. 
But Israel shall dwell safely by themselves according to 
the benediction with which Jakob did bless them, in 
the land yielding wine and oil. The heavens also 
above you are bidden to send down upon you the dew 
and the rain. O Israel, happy are you! Who is as 
you, a people saved before the Lord,—the shield of your 
help, the guardian of your armies, and the trusty sword 
of your pre-eminence ? Your enemies are to be scattered 
before you; but you, O Beth Israel, while you give 
diligence in the law, and keep the commandments, shall 
tread upon the necks of their kings. ] 

XXXIV. And Mosheh went up from the plains of 
Moab to the mountain of Nebo, to the summit of the 
height which is over against Jericho; and the Word of 
the Lord showed him all the strong ones of the land,. 

7 Or, “ conducteth.” 


265 


682 TARGUM OF PALESTINE ({cHaP. 


and the mighty acts which would be done by Jeptha of 
Gilead, and the victories of Shimeon bar Manoah of the 
tribe of Dan; and the thousand princes of Beth Naphtali 
who would gather with Barak, and the kings who would 
be slain by Jehoshua bar Nun of the tribe of Ephraim, 
and the deeds of strength to be wrought by Gideon bar 
Yoash of the tribe of Menasheh, and all the kings of 
Tsrael, and of the kingdom of Beth Jehudah, who would 
have dominion in the land until the latter sanctuary 
should be destroyed. And the king of the south who 
will combine with the king of the north to destroy the 
inhabitants of the land, and the Ammonites and Moabites, 
the dwellers in the plain, who will oppress Israel, and 
the captives of Elijah’s disciples who will be dispersed 
from the plain of Jericho, and the captives of Hlisha’s 
disciples who will be dispersed from the city of palm 
trees by the hand of their brethren of Beth Israel, two 
hundred thousand men; and the affliction of generation 
after generation, and the punishment of Armalgos the 
wicked,’ and the battle of Gog, when in the time of that 
great tribulation Michael will rise up to deliver by his 
arm.? (Jer. And Mosheh went up from the plain 
of Moab to the mountain of Nebo, to the summit 
of the height which is over against Jericho; and the 
Lord showed him the whole land of Gilead unto Dan 
of Kesavan, and the whole land of Naphtali and 
Ephraim and Manasheh, and all the land of Jehudah to 
the outer sea, and the south, and the plain of the vale of 
Jericho, the city which cultivateth palms, which is Zeir. ] 

And the Lord said to him, This is the end of the 
word concerning the land,! and this is the land which 
ך‎ covenanted unto Abraham, to Izhak, and to Jacob, 
saying, I will give it unto your children. 1 grant thee to 
see it with thine eyes, but thou shalt not pass over to it. 


8 Armillos, i. e., Antichrist. Vide the Ifidrash, Sepher Zerubabel. 
9 Ezek. xsxviii.; Dan, sii. 1 Sepha de miltha be arah. 


XXXIV.] ON DEUTERONOMY. 683 


Mosheh, the Rabban of Israel, was born on the 
seventh day of the month Adar, and on the seventh 
day of Adar he was gathered from the world. A voice 
fell from heaven, and thus spake: Come, all ye who 
have entered into the world, and behold the grief of 
Mosheh, the Rabban of Israel, who hath laboured, but 
not to please himself, and who is ennobled with four 
goodly crowns :—the crown of the Law is his, because 
he brought it from the heavens above, when there was 
revealed to him the Glory of the Lord’s Shekinah, with 
two thousand myriads of angels, and forty and two 
thousand chariots of fire. The crown of the Priesthood 
hath been his in the seven days of the peace offerings. 
The crown of the kingdom they gave him in possession 
from heaven: he drew not the sword, nor prepared the 
war horse, nor gathered he the host. The crown of a 
good name he possesseth by good works and by his 
humility. Therefore is Mosheh, the servant of the 
Lord, gathered in the land of Moab, by the kiss of the 
Word of the Lord. 

Blessed be the Name of the Lord of the world, who 
hath taught us His righteous way. He hath taught us to 
clothe the naked, as He clothed Adam and Hava; He hath 
taught us to unite the bridegroom and the bride in mar- 
riage, as He united Hava to Adam. He hath taught us to 
visit the sick, as He revealed Himself to Abraham when 
he was ill, from being circumcised; He hath taught us 
to console the mourners, as He revealed Himself again 
to Jakob when returning from Padan, in the place 
where his mother had died. He hath taught us to feed 
the poor, as He sent Israel bread from heaven; He 
hath taught us to bury the dead by (what He did for) 
Mosheh ; for He revealed Himself in His Word, and 
with Him the companies of ministering angels. Michael. 
and Gabriel spread forth the golden bed, fastened with 
chrysolites, gems, and beryls, adorned with hangings of 


4 TARGUM עס‎ PALESTINE [cuar. 


purple silk, and satin, and white linens. Metatron, 
Jophiel, and Uriel, and Jephephya, the wise sages, laid 
him upon it, and by His Word He conducted him four 
miles, and buried him in the valley opposite Beth Peor ; 
—that Israel, as oft as they look up to Peor, may have 
the memory of their sin; and at sight of the burying- 
place of Mosheh may be humbled :—but no man know- 
eth his sepulchre unto this day. 

(Jur. Spake Mosheh the prophet: The Word of 
the Lord said unto me, This is the land which I 
have sworn unto Abraham, to Izhak, and to Jakob, 
saying, Unto the children of thy children will I give it. 
Behold it with thine eyes, but thou shalt not pass over 
unto it. And Mosheh, the servant of the Lord, died 
there in the land of the Moabaee, according to the 
mouth of the decree of the Word of the Lord. And 
He buried him in a valley in the land of the Moabaee, 
opposite to the idol Peor; nor knoweth any one his 
sepulchre unto this day.] Mosheh was a son of a hun- 
dred and twenty years when he died; the orbs of his 
eyes were not darkened, nor had his teeth passed away. 
[Jer. Mosheh was the son of a hundred and twenty 
years in the time that he died; his eyes were not dark- 
ened, nor had the brightness of his face faded away. ] 

And the children of Israel wept for Mosheh in the 
plains of Moab thirty days; and the days of weeping in 
the mourning for Mosheh were completed on the eighth 
of the month of Nisan. And on the ninth of Nisan 
the people of Beth Israel prepared their vessels and set 
their cattle in order, and passed over the Jordan on the 
tenth of Nisan. And the manna ceased for them on the 
sixteenth of Nisan. They found manna to eat thirty- 
seven days after the death of Mosheh, for the sake of his 
righteousness. (Jer. And the children of Israel wept 
for Mosheh in the plains of Moab thirty days ; and so were 
fulfilled the days of weeping in mourning for Mosheh.] 


XXXIV. ] ON DEUTERONOMY. , 685 


But Jehoshua bar Nun was filled with the Spirit of 
wisdom ; for Mosheh had laid his hands upon him ; and 
the children of Israel received instruction from him, 
and did as the Lord had commanded (by) Mosheh. 

But no prophet hath again risen in Israel like unto 
Mosheh, because the Word of the Lord had known him 
to speak with him word for word, in all the signs, and 
wonders, and manifestations which the Word of the 
Lord sent him to perform in the land of Mizraim upon 
Pharoh, and all his servants, and all the people of his 
land; and in all the strength of the Mighty Hand by 
which he bare the rod whose weight was forty savin, 
and that divided the sea, and smote the rock; and in 
all the solemn things which Mosheh did when he re- 
ceived the two tables of sapphire stone, whose weight 
was forty savin, and carried both of them in his 
hands in the sight of all Israel. (Jer. And Jehoshua 
bar Nun was filled with the Spirit of Wisdom: for 
Mosheh had laid his hands upon him; and the children 
of Israel hearkened unto him, and did as the Word of 
the Lord had commanded Mosheh. But no prophet 
hath arisen yet in Israel as Mosheh, whom the Word of 
the Lord knew, (speaking with him word for word,) in 
all the miracles, and wonders, and distinguishing signs 
which the Word of the Lord sent him to perform in the 
land of Mizraim, on Pharoh, and all his servants, and 
all his land; and in all the Mighty Hand, and all 
the great manifestations which Mosheh did in the sight 
of all Israel. 


END OF THE TARGUM OF PALESTINE ON THE TORAH. 


BLESSED BE THE LORD, THE GoD OF ISRAEL, FOR 
EVER AND EVER, AND LET THE WHOLE EARTH BE 
FILLED מו‎ HIs GLORY. 


ADDENDA. 


I, Divine Titles. (Glossary, p. 3.) 


addition to the names of the Deity found in the‏ אך 
Holy Scriptures, the ancient Jewish theologians employed‏ 
several others, as descriptive epithets of the Divine per-‏ 
fections; such as, 1. Matsui Rishon, “the Primary‏ 
Being.” 2. Ha-Shem, “the Name; ” a pronounceable‏ 
alternative for Jznovan. 3. Yechido, “the Only One.”‏ 
Chai Hadlamim, “the Ever-Living One.” 5. Hakka-‏ .4 
dosh, “the Holy One;” to which is usuaily added,‏ 
Baruch Hu, “Blessed is He.” 6. Zaddiko, “the‏ 
Righteous One.” 7. Mfakom, literally “Place ;” an‏ 
epithet used to denote the Ubiquity of God. The place‏ 
or space occupied bya creature is limited to the dimensions‏ 
of its own contracted being: the Place of the Creator‏ 
isinfinitude. 8. Geburah, “ Power,” or “Omnipotence.”‏ 
Ha-Boré, “the Creator.” 10, Ii sheemar rehayah‏ .9 
ha olam, “ Who spake, and the world was.” 11. Adon‏ 
kot Hadrets, “The Supporter of the whole earth.”‏ 
Maiko shel olam, “King of the world.” 13,‏ .12 
Melek matkey hammelakim, “the King of the kings of‏ 
kings.” 14, Melek shehashalom shelo, “the King of‏ 
Peace ;” or, “the King with whom there is peace.”‏ 
Ha El hakkabod vehannorah, “ the glorious and‏ .15 
awful God.” 16. Rachamana, “the Merciful.” 17.‏ 
HMazega de alma, “ the Distributor of good things (Zit.,‏ 
wine) to the world.” 18. Baal harachamim, “the‏ 
Lord of Mercies.? 19. dbinn shelbashamayim, “ our‏ 


ADDENDA, 687 


Father who is in the heavens.” 20. Ha-Shamayim, 
“ Heaven.” 


II. Amarkol amarkella. (Glossary, p. 70.) 


We have said that Rashi defines this appellation as 
meaning a Treasurer; it should be added that others 
consider it an amplification of the word Marko ; i. e., 
mar, “a lord,” and kod, “all;” “a chief ruler.” 


IT. Nephesh. 


Tuis word commonly denotes animal life, or the soul ; 
but in some cases it is put for the body, whether animated 
with life or bereft of it. So both in the Btble and Tar- 
gum it is used for “ a dead body ;”’ andin the Jerusalem 
Talmud for “a stone or monument which marks the 
place of the dead.” In Deut. xxvi. 14, (Palest.,) I 
have rendered Velo yehabith mineh takrikin lenephash 
de mith, “I have not given of it a covering for the soul 
of the dead.” But, for the reason just assigned, we 
might have translated thus: “I have not given from it 
a shroud for the body of the dead.” 


IV. Numbers revi. 59, Palest., p. 439. 


Reap, “And she bare unto Amram Aharon and 
Mosheh,” instead of “ Mushe.” 


V. Fauna of the Pentateuch. (Lev. xi.; Deut. xiv.) 


To identify in every instance the exact animal or bird 
nominated in these chapters is an almost hopeless 
attempt. While about most of the names there is 
sufficient certainty, others of them can be rendered only 
tentatively. Bochart, who spent many years in the 
study of the natural history of the Bible, remarks truly 
that the old versions of these chapters only use names 
for some of the birds and beasts as uncertain to us as 
those of the original Hebrew. 


688 ADDENDA. 


VI. Deut. reviti. 15, 


Bath kol, Heb., here in Chaldee Berath halla, “ the 
daughter of the voice,” 7. e., the resonance of the voice 
of God; according to the Jews the only mode of, Divine 
communications subsequent to the prophets. For 
instances in which it is affirmed to have occurred, and 
the rabbinical opinions about it, see Virginea’s Observ. 
Sac., 11.0 841; and the Prolegomena to Dz. פא‎ 
German Translation of the Talmud, book Berakoth. 


WORKS BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 


1 
Royal 18mo. in Cloth. Price Two Shillings and Sixpence. 


MISERICORDIA: 


OR, 


CONTEMPLATIONS ON THE MERCY OF GOD: 
REGARDED ESPECIALLY IN ITS ASPECTS ON THE YOUNG. 


MASON. 1842. 


“An admirable work. Whoever wishes for devotional reading of the 
best sort, will not be disappointed if he procures this volume. It is 
sound and clear in doctrine, rich in feeling, impressive and argumenta- 
tive, and full both of admonition and encouragement.” —WaTCHMAN. 

“An impressive and edifying view of the mercy of God...... A most 
effective and stirring appeal to young people, on their immediate sub- 
mission to that mercy......... An appropriate present to young persons, 
especially to those of education. It is eloquent, argumentative, and 
affectionate ; and, in many places, reminds one of the energy and unction 
of Baxter’s practical treatises.’—WeEsLEYAN 181800152 MaGaziNE. 


II. 
Royal 18700. in Cambric. Price Three Shillings. 


HORA ARAMAICA: 


Being Outlines on, 1. The Shemetic Languages. 11. Aramaic, as 
adopted by the Hebrews. III. Dialects of the Aramaic. IV. 
Study of the Language. Bibliography. V. The Old Testament in 
Aramaic. VI. The Targums. VII. Aramean Versions of the 
New Testament; the Philoxenian. VIII. The Hierosolymitan. 
IX. The Peschito, or Old Syriac, its Antiquity. X. Its Relation to 
the Greek Text. XI. Its Relation to some other Versions. XII. 
Critical Uses, XIII. Supplements to the Syrian Canon. XIV. 


( 
- 


Editions of the Peschito. XV. The מגופמ6פק::נגא‎ Version. 
XVI. Translations: St. Matthew’s Gospel, and the Epistle to the 
Hebrews. 


LONGMAN. 


“Avery useful manual.’—CuurcH oF EncLaND QUARTERLY 
REVIEW. 

“A valuable volume.”—Parniot. 

“Destiné & faciliter Pétude de la langue Syriaque.”—JouRNAL 
ASIATIQUE DE .ג‎ 


Ill. 
Demy 12mo. Cambric, pp. 588. Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence. 


THE SYRIAN CHURCHES: 


THEIR 


EARLY HISTORY, LITURGIES, AND LITERATURE. 


WITH 


A LITERAL TRANSLATION OF THE FOUR GOSPELS 


FROM THE PESCHITO, OR CANON OP HOLY SCRIPTURE IN USE AMONG 
THE ORIENTAL CHRISTIANS FROM THE EARLIEST TIMES. 


LONGMAN. 


“A great mass of information which will be new to most English 
readers. His materials are derived from the best sources of information. 
His work fills up an important chasm in ecclesiastical history, and is 
well deserving of a place in every well-assorted ecclesiastical library.” — 
Cuurcu-or-Excranp QuarTerty Review. 

“A work of interest, and one well calculated to meet with the popu- 
larity it so well merits...... The information he imparts is weighty in 
itself, and gracefully conveyed by theauthor. The sketch of the Hebrew 
Christian church in Jerusalem is exceedingly well detailed; and the 
same praise is due to the research exhibited in the traditions of early 
Oriental Missionaries. The pictorial prose in which he portrays the 
fortunes of Antioch and Edessa, of Seleucia and Ctesiphon, deserves, too, 
its meed of laudatory notice. He enters largely into questions connected 
with the Nestorians, Jacobites, Maronites, and the Syrian Christians of 
India: of the three former he discourses at length, (but at a length 
which never wearies,) of their founders, doctrines, controversies, vicissi- 
tudes, discipline, decadence, and present condition. The Liturgies are 
remarkable for their ancient beauty ; and the Gospels, as here translated, 


8 


are of double interest, as offering a correct representation of the evange- 
lical canon read, from the primeval days, by the Christians of the East, 
and as establishing the excellence of our own authorized version.’”— 
CHurcH AnD STATE GAZETTE. 

“ Follows up the author’s learned Hore Aramaice, and investigates 
the canon of the Scriptures in use in the East.—The translation of the 
Gospels is a production of much literary curiosity...... as such we 
recommend it, especially to all biblical students; but readers of every 
class will find in it much of a description to deserve their most anxious 
attention and serious consideration.’—Litegary GAZETTE. 

“We are deeply indebted to Mr. Etheridge for having placed within 
reach of the English student so much of the Peschito version as is con- 
tained in this present volume. We look forward with great interest to 
the appearance of the ‘Apostolical Acts and Epistles,’ by the same 
author, which, we are glad to find, are preparing for publication, There 
is a simplicity and beauty in the tone of the Gospel narrative, as here 
given, which is affecting in the highest degree. 

“The former half of the bovk....consists of an introduction to the 
history of the Syrian churches....and will well repay perusal; involving 
dissertations..:.full of condensed information, which, we think, could 
scarcely be found in the same form elsewhere. a 

“The Liturgies are translated with exactness....frequently reminding 
us of the more sublime portions of our own Liturgy, and of their 
common origin. 

“The Conspectus of (Syrian) authors is extremely valuable. It con- 
tains a list of no less than three hundred and twenty-eight names, with 
the title of their works, and their dates, from a.D. 190 to .פ.ג‎ 4 
It does infinite credit to the industry of the author. 

“There is no better sign of the times than the production of such 
books; and that they meet with encouragement, is a proof that people 
= beginning to inquire about ‘the old ways.’”—THE THEOLOGIAN, 

0. 7. 

“The title-page of this work has the merit, which all title-pages do 
not possess, of being a faithful index of its real contents. The writer 1s 
evidently a person of sound judgment, of a Christian and catholic spirit, 
and thoroughly conversant with the subject of his work. We do not 
know where those who are unacquainted with the history of the Eastern 
churches can find a brief sketch of their origin and progress at once so 
fall, accurate, and comprehensive, as in the opening part of this volume. 
—EVANGELICAL CHRISTENDOM. A 

“This is a volume which ought to be placed, not only in every 
theological library, but on the book-shelves, or book-shelf, of every 
biblical student.”—WatcHsan. 

“The title-page tells us what it is, and the body of the work abun- 
dantly fulfils the promise. It is a valuable contribution to ecclesiastical 
history and antiquity ; and the more so, because it is not only executed 
with ‘ability, but on sound principles. While we particularly and 
earnestly recommend it to Ministers and students, we are bound to say, 
that general religious readers will find it to be to them a volume both 
interesting and serviceable.’—WesLEYaN- METHODIST 21404218 5. 


4 
IV. 
Uniform with the above, pp. 508. Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence. 


THE APOSTOLICAL ACTS AND EPISTLES, 


FROM THE PESCHITO, OR ANCIENT SYRIAC : 


TO WHICH ABE ADDED, 


THE REMAINING EPISTLES, AND BOOK OF 
REVELATION, 


AFTEB A LATER SYRIAN TEXT, 


WITH PROLEGOMENA AND INDICES. 
LONGALAN. 


“Completes the New Testament. The Introduction contains 3 
valuable body of 5פ---". מ18110תע10ם1‎ 4 

“Dr. Etheridge has conferred no ordinary obligation on students in 
biblical literature, by the publication of this volume. It is pleasing to 
see the close agreement of the text from which our authorized version 
was rendered, with that which the Syriac translators must have had 
before them.”—WeEsLeYAN-METHODIST MacaziNE. 

“In an earlier volume the learned author gave a translation of the 
Gospels; the present one completes his design of presenting a transla- 
tion of the entire Syriac New Testament. We are gratified with the 
opportunity of repeating an opinion of the admirable manner in which 
the task has been executed. To unquestionable competence on the 
score of learning, Dr. Etheridge adds a profound reverence for the 
sacred records, and the zeal of an enlightened theologian. His Prole- 
gomena contain much valuable information, well digested, which cannot 
but bé of great advantage to the biblical student and the young divine.” 
— EVANGELICAL CHRISTENDOM. 

“Completes an undertaking which all intelligent biblical students will 
know how to prize, a literally exact translation of the venerable Peschito. 
.sseee The Prolegomena evince learning combined with modesty: much 
research, little show. The style throughout is succinct, elegant, and 
scholarly. There is a livingness about even the scholastic parts,” 80.-- 
WatcHMan. 

* 0/6 had occasion, some time since, to notice with commendation 
the translation of the Gospels by Dr. Etheridge. We have now to 
award equal commendation to the translation he has accomplished of the 
remaining books of the New Testament...... We must not conclude 
without especially praising the Prolegomena, a critical, historical, and 
philosophical introduction to this volume, which reflects great credit 
upon its able and painstaking author.” —Cuuncn AND StaTE GazErTrE. 
i also the CauncH עס‎ ENGLAND QuaRTERLY REVIEW, for April, 

“ By this work we are enabled to compare the sacred text, as read in 
the Eastern’ churches for sixteen or seventeen centuries, with that which 


5 


during the same lapse of time has been received-in the West. Such a 
comparison will tend to confirm our belief in the ixitegrity and incorrupt 
transmission of the inspired documents of the Christian dispensation. 
יי‎ The Prolegomena will be found extremely valuable. We know 
not any single work in which so much rare information could be found 
upon aucient translations, We earnestly commend the volume to the 
notice of all Ministers and Missionaries.” —EvaneeLicaL MAGAZINE. 

“His high-toned, beautiful, and elaborate works on the Syrian 
Churches and Hebrew Literature entitle him to the warm thanks of all 
Christian scholars.”—Lonpon QuartTerty REVIEW. 





Vv. 
Demy 12mo. Cambric. Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence. 


JERUSALEM AND TIBERIAS; 
SORA AND CORDOVA. 


A SURVEY OF THE RELIGIOUS AND SCHOLASTIC LEARNING 
OF THE JEWS: DESIGNED AS AN INTRODUCTION 
TO THE STUDY OF HEBREW LITERATURE. 


LONGMAN, 1856. 


* 4 useful work on the History of Jewish Literature has been recently 
published by the Syriac scholar, Dr. Etheridge.” —PRoFEssoR 125 : 
Sermons before the University of Oxford. 

“ 4 work, from the perusal of which we have derived pleasure and 
information. We do not know any other book in the English language 
which comprises an equal amount of instruction on Hebrew literature.” 
—JeEWIsH CHRONICLE. 

“Tt is quite unnecessary to point out the utility of such a work, the 
want of which must have been felt by every one desirous of obtaining 
information on these matters...... We have given a sort of descriptive 
catalogue of the treasures to be found in the volume, and we doubt not 
that many of our readers will be tempted to become possessors of it.”— 
CLERICAL JOURNAL. 

“Tn the acquisition of such knowledge this work will be found a most 
valuable handbook.” —Recorp. 

“We welcome the work.”—LiteraRyY CHURCHMAN. 

“The mannal will prove useful and acceptable. Where it fails to 
communicate instruction it directs us to its sources: nor will we with- 
hold from Dr. Etheridge the praise due to his industry and manifest 
acquaintanceship with Jewish writings, both in their original aud in the 
works of his German predecessors.” —ATHENEUM, 

“ Dr. Etheridge is a painstaking scholar, and well known by bis many 
labours ou the Syriac New Testament. As the result of the study of 
many years he has produced the volume now before us, which supplies 
a want in our literature which has long been felt.” —JoURNAL OF SACKED 
LITERATURE. 

* Dr. Etheridge is by birth a Hebrew of the Hebrews,* but. in spirit 


* The writer here was misinformed. 





6 


and in faith he is now a Christian of the Christians, and in the purity 
and beauty of his style an Englishman of the Englishmen. He 
is evidently a great master of his recondite subject; and it was the 
absolute absence of any treatise of the kind in our language, which hap- 
pily compelled him to become its author.”— METHODIST QUARTERLY 
Review. (American.) 





VI 
Post ₪00. Cambrice. Price Six Shillings. 
THE LIFE OF THE 
REV. ADAM CLARKE, LL.D. 


MASON, 1858. 


“The very cordial thanks of the Conference are given to the Rev. 
Dr. Etheridge for the valuable service rendered in his deeply interesting 
Life of the Rev. Dr. Clarke. The Conference record their high approval 
of the spirit, judgment, taste, and general ability which mark the work, 
and hail this addition to our literature as a memorial at once just and 
beautiful, honourable to departed excellence, and faithful to the great 
cause which Dr. Clarke lived to serve.” —MINUTES OF THE METHODIST 
ConFERENCE, 1858. 

“It was most proper that the Christian church, and especially the 
communion to which he belonged, should possess such a record of his 
life and character as is now supplied.” —EvancELicaL CHRISTENDOM. 

We should find it difficult to select from the whole of our biogra- 
phical literature of the bygone generation, anything of the same magui- 
dude making ₪ nearer approach to completeness. The book abounds 
with every excellence.”—CurisTIan WITNEsS. 

‘Free from any ungenial bias, he enters fully into the spirit of his 
work, and has produced a book worthy of taking its place beside the best 
biographical writings of the age.’—CuRIsTIANn TIMES. 

“We are here presented with the picture of patient industry and un- 
flagging zeal, gradually overcoming the greatest obstacles, and rising 
superior to their besetting difficulties,—the picture of a great mind in 
circumstances adverse to its own development, at leugth shining forth 
with its own brilliance, an object for admiration, and an example for 
imitation.” —CLERICAL JOURNAL. 





VII. 

Post 500. Cambric. Price Six Shailings. 
THE LIFE OF THE 
REV, THOMAS COKE, D.C.L. 
MASON. 1860, 


“Those who have read the masterly and captivating ‘Life of Dr. 
Adam Clarke,’ by the same author, will be prepared for the rich treat 
which is here set before them.”—Curist1an WITNEss, 


7 


“For nearly half a century there has been a yearning in the Methodist 
mind for a volume that should exhibit Dr. Coke as he really was 
Such a volume we have now before us.”—WESLEYAN MAGAZINE. 

“The pleasant biography before us, we may venture to say, will be a 
long-lived book.” —Lonpon REVIEW. 





VIII. 
Demy 12mo. Cambric. Price Eight Shillings and Sixpence, 


THE TARGUMS OF ONKELOS AND 
JONATHAN BEN UZZIEL ON THE 
PENTATEUCH: 


WITH THE FRAGMENTS OF THE JERUSALEM TARGUM, TRANS- 
LATED FROM THE CHALDEE. GENESIS AND EXODUS. 


LONGMAN. 1862. 


* Among the most valuable contributions to the history of Jewish 
literature, we ought to notice the interesting works of Dr. Etheridge, 
well known as the translator of the New Testament from the Peschito 
Syriac. Dr. Etheridge’s last volume, containing the Targums of Onkelos 
and Jonathan Ben Uzziel un the Pentateuch, deserves the careful atten- 
tion of biblical scholars.” —EpinpurcH REVIEW. 

“This is the first attempt which has been made to translate the 
Chaldee paraphrases on the Pentateuch into the English language. The 
author has done his work well, and given a good literal version.”— 
ATHEN-EUM. 

“This is a work which has been long needed, and Mr. Etheridge is 
perfectly equal to the translation he has accomplished.” — 5 0. 

* 4 volume of great and lasting interest to all biblical students, and 
especially to those who love the language and literature of the Jewish 
people. Dr. E. has earned a new title to our esteem and gratitude by 
this contribution to our too scanty stock of translations of books of this 
class, and for bringing within the reach of all what has been, until now, 
the exclusive property of the learned.”—WatcHMan. 

“The volume has ₪ superior charm for the general reader, and 
especially for the commentator on the Old Testament.’—Barrisn 


StTaNDARD. 
“Mr, Etheridge deserves well of biblical literature by his former 
publications...... The present volume will add much to the usefulness of 


his labours.” —CLERICAL JOURNAL. 

“The translation has béen made with fidelity and accuracy.”— 
JOURNAL OF SACRED LITERATURE. 

* The introduction will be welcome to the biblical student.” —Baitisx 
QuaRTERLY Review. 

“To few, even among students, are the originals familiar; hence the 

eater is the debt to Dr. Etheridge.’—WeEsLEYan MaGazinz. 

* ב‎ literal and trustworthy translation. A good service has been 
rendered to Bible students by this volume, It enables Englishmen of 


8 


the present day to appreciate the forms of thought prevalent in the 
times of the apostles, and will account to them for the use of words and 
hrases in the New Testament which have seemed hard to understand. 
n this way it will confirm the faith of many, and be accepted by all 
intelligent readers as a valuable contribution towards a history of the 
interpretation of the Holy Scriptures.” —Baptist 14032188. 

* [6 is no common service which he has rendered in the publication 
of this very valuable volume. To the unlearned, and the scholar, too, 
this translation will be welcome. The version has been carefully executed 
by the author, who is a competent scholar for that purpose.”—Evan- 
GELICAL MaGaZINE. 





Preparing for the Press. 
THE TARGUM OF JONATHAN BEN UZZIEL 
ON THE PROPHECIES OF ISATAH, 
JEREMIAH, AND EZEKIEL. 


TRANSLATED FROM THE CHALDEE. 


LONDON: 
PRINTED BY WILLIAM NICHOLS, 
48, HOXTON SQUARE, 











ו 
ה 





