Rating
8

Win at All Costs
Inside Nike Running and Its Culture of Deception
Matt Hart | WIN AT ALL COSTS: Inside Nike Running and Its Culture of Deception. Copyright © 2020 by Matthew Hart. Published by arrangement
with Dey Street Books, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers.
The 2012 Olympics crowned running coach Alberto Salazar's triumphant second act. A legendary distance runner in the 1980s, but lacking Olympic medals, he'd fallen apart physically. Now, athletes he coached won medals in the 10,000 meters, including second placer Galen Rupp, who'd been under Salazar's wing since high school. But, reveals journalist Matt Hart, sinister deeds lay behind Salazar's feel-good story. He constantly flirted with ­ and often crossed ­ ethical lines. He all but ordered Rupp and other runners to take drugs for imaginary ills. Salazar was ultimately sanctioned for doping. As it often does, athletic competition once again offers an object lesson about the means to an end.
Take-Aways
· Alberto Salazar once was the brightest star among US distance runners. · He lamented the fall of US runners from international prominence. · As a coach, Salazar used training methods that pushed the envelope of fairness. · Salazar embraced creative methods to get prescription drugs for his athletes. · Salazar took an obsessive interest in Galen Rupp, a runner he coached through high school and
college. · The 2012 Olympics vindicated Salazar as an elite coach. · Runner Kara Goucher learned the limits of Salazar's medical knowledge. · Salazar instructed athletes to take massive doses of Vitamin D. · After years of Salazar's rumors and denials, the USADA sanctioned him in 2019.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2021-02-13 16:35:35 CET

www.getabstract.com

Summary
Alberto Salazar once was the brightest star among US distance runners.
Born in Cuba and raised in the United States, Alberto Salazar starred as a runner for the University of Oregon and burst onto the national scene. At one memorable race in 1978, he ran so hard in the heat that his body temperature spiked to 108 degrees. He won the Boston Marathon in 1982, when American runners dominated distance events.
At the 1981 New York City marathon, he set a world record of two hours, eight minutes and 13 seconds. Nike paid him a salary of $250,000, a huge sum in the early 1980s. Salazar embraced dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), which trainers used as an anti-inflammatory treatment for horses.
"Nineteen-eighty-two proved the high-water mark for Salazar's career."
Salazar won the New York City Marathon three years in a row, but fought chronic fatigue and illness. He failed to make the 1984 Olympic team. To revive his career, Salazar tried Prozac, an antidepressant, and prednisone, a corticosteroid allowed in certain instances. He took testosterone, which was a banned substance. In 1994, Salazar won a grueling 55-mile race in South Africa. He later admitted to using testosterone from 1995 to 2006.
He lamented the fall of US runners from international prominence.
Salazar and a Nike executive watched the broadcast of the 2001 Boston Marathon from Nike's campus in Oregon. They grew discouraged that runners from Korea, Ecuador and Kenya took the top five spots. The glory days of US runners seemed fixed in the past. In the 1970s, American Bill Rodgers had won multiple Boston and New York marathons. Frank Shorter, also an American, won the 1972 Olympic marathon and placed second in 1976, losing to an East German runner later found to be a drug cheat. But from 1983 until 2001, Americans won just 4% of World Championships and Olympic golds in distance races.
"Almost two decades of lackluster performances had made the US sports establishment desperate for a homegrown hero to challenge the dominance of Africa."
Salazar thought he could coach Americans back to prominence. Former marathoner Tom Clarke, a Nike executive, liked the idea. He made a list of what Salazar would need to do to restore the United States to glory in distance running. The conversation launched the Nike Oregon Project, intended to bring Nike's competitive spirit and money to distance running under Salazar's coaching.
Salazar had coached Mary Decker Slaney in her quest to win an Olympic medal. But, she was banned from competition for two years after a urine sample at the 1996 Olympic Trials showed impermissible levels of testosterone. She claimed birth control pills interfered with the results,

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2021-02-13 16:35:35 CET

www.getabstract.com 2 of 6

but that didn't persuade doping officials. Drug scandals often tainted Nike athletes. Sprinters Marion Jones and Justin Gatlin admitted cheating in the early 2000s, and cycling superstar Lance Armstrong also fell from grace.
As a coach, Salazar used training methods that pushed the envelope of fairness.
Promising runners moved to Oregon to live and train under Salazar's close tutelage. Beaverton, Oregon, is at sea level, but many elite American runners had gone instead to Boulder, Colorado, to live and train at a higher altitude. Thin mountain air spurs the body to produce red blood cells. East African runners live and train at "7,000 to 8,000 feet above sea level" to gain a competitive advantage in sea-level competitions. Salazar spent $110,000 to turn an Oregon house into a high-altitude environment. Nike runners slept, ate and rode stationary bikes in the house, where Salazar set the altitude at 12,000 feet above sea level.
"Whatever else might be said or written about Salazar, nobody has ever accused him of modesty; his confidence in himself is legendary."
Athletes discovered that the house's air-thinning system had been set to 14,000 feet instead of 12,000. When he took the team to train in Santa Fe, New Mexico, Salazar and the athletes stayed in a hotel at an altitude of 8,000 feet. He brought an altitude tent, set it at 14,000 feet and instructed a star pupil to sleep inside it. Assistant coaches wondered about the scientific validity of Salazar's methods, but he was the unquestioned boss.
Salazar embraced creative approaches to get prescription drugs for his athletes.
Salazar got his runners diagnosed as needing thyroid medication. His athletes visited Dr. Jeffrey Brown, a Houston endocrinologist. Brown saw Adam Goucher in 2004 and, although blood work showing that Goucher's thyroid function was normal, the doctor diagnosed him with hypothyroidism and prescribed thyroid replacement therapy. Brown told Arianna Lambie that even though five tests in 2008 and 2009 showed she had normal thyroid levels, athletes needed thyroid medication. When Lambie felt side effects, another endocrinologist immediately ramped down her medication. Lambie soon left the Nike Oregon Project.
"The high stress of running 130-mile weeks, sleeping at extreme altitudes and traveling to foreign places constantly pushed Salazar's athletes into a physiological hole."
Salazar taught runner Lauren Fleshman how to persuade a doctor that she suffered from asthma. When pollen counts were high, Salazar took her to a track and told her to run to inflame her lungs. Salazar instructed Fleshman to run to the doctor's building and sprint up the 12 flights of stairs to his office. Gasping for breath, Fleshman failed an asthma test ­ and the physician prescribed Advair, a corticosteroid, and Albuterol, an inhaler drug. The physician instructed Fleshman to take the medications only during pollen season; Salazar told her to take them year-round.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2021-02-13 16:35:35 CET

www.getabstract.com 3 of 6

Salazar took an obsessive interest in Galen Rupp, a runner he coached through high school and college.
While Salazar primarily worked with post-collegians, he longed to develop younger athletes. In 2000, the mother of soccer star Galen Rupp, then 14, approached Salazar. The young athlete had run 200-meter sprints in less than 30 seconds. Salazar became Rupp's coach, dictating nearly every detail of his training, racing and diet. As Rupp hit the 19-and-under circuit, he crushed longstanding records, but he was taking oral prednisone at the time.
"Under Salazar's watchful eye, Rupp didn't partake in all of the team workouts as was normally required of a scholarship athlete."
As a college athlete, Rupp technically competed for the University of Oregon, but Salazar was his coach. Rupp didn't participate in team workouts, and he slept in a high-altitude device. Rupp regularly received allergy shots, though no one was sure he suffered from any. In his final season at Oregon, he won national championships at 5,000 and 10,000 meters.
When Rupp turned pro, Salazar remained his coach. Salazar claimed Rupp suffered from asthma and, therefore, needed prednisone, which the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) banned in 2007. Salazar applied for a therapeutic-use exemption on Rupp's behalf, but WADA denied the request. Salazar asked an assistant to deliver a vial of Rupp's urine to the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, presumably to determine if Rupp would pass a drug test. The assistant coach traveled to Germany to meet Rupp. Salazar shipped the assistant a Clive Cussler novel with a secret compartment containing pills.
The 2012 Olympics vindicated Salazar as an elite coach.
Athletes coached by Salazar ­ "Mo" Farah and Rupp ­ finished first and second in the 10,000 meters at the London Olympics. The coach called the one-two finish "the best feeling I've ever had in my life." Nike displayed a giant finish-line photo at the Lance Armstrong fitness center on its campus.
"The decade-plus effort to help top American distance runners not only compete with but defeat the Kenyans and Ethiopians had finally paid off."
However, Salazar's athletes all seemed to suffer asthma and thyroid conditions that required prescription drugs. Other runners nicknamed him "Albuterol Salazar" because his athletes took that drug. Salazar ran through assistant coaches, bullied doctors and belittled athletes. Some former coaches and athletes criticized Salazar's methods, either acting as whistleblowers or by speaking to the media.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2021-02-13 16:35:35 CET

www.getabstract.com 4 of 6

Runner Kara Goucher learned the limits of Salazar's medical knowledge.
When Kara Goucher suffered a calf injury in 2005, Salazar treated it by applying crushed aspirin and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) to the area, then covering her calf in plastic wrap. When she complained about a burning sensation, Salazar told her to not to remove the dressing. Afterward, her skin blistered, and it took weeks to heal. Her calf still bothered her, so Salazar instructed her to have surgery. He dismissed the notion that Goucher was training too hard and needed rest.
"They knew Salazar was the Oregon Project, and he answered to no one, and crossing him would result in an end to their professional careers."
Salazar experimented with a topical testosterone called AndroGel, using his adult sons as guinea pigs. Salazar rubbed the gel on his son Alex's back, and sent before-and-after urine samples to a lab for testing. Dr. Brown, advising Salazar, was concerned; Alex's wife was pregnant, and the topical testosterone could transfer to her and harm Salazar's unborn grandson. Salazar increased the dose. He learned his son's urine showed allowable levels of testosterone. Brown admitted he prescribed AndroGel to Salazar even though the coach said he would test the drug on other people.
Salazar instructed athletes to take massive doses of Vitamin D.
Salazar theorized that Vitamin D would increase testosterone. Despite the health risks of high doses, he pushed his runners to take large quantities. Salazar had Farah take 200,000 IU a week, though the recommended allowance is 4,200 IU per week. Salazar gave megadoses of Vitamin D to his children. Another runner felt ill after obeying Salazar and taking an infusion of L-carnitine, an endurance-enhancing substance. Runners knew better than to argue with Salazar; he brooked no dissent.
"All the [Nike Oregon Project] athletes, it seemed, were on prescription medication with dubious justifications."
L-carnitine became a favored treatment. Two days before the London Marathon in 2014, Farah had an L-carnitine infusion in a hotel room. When the US Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) questioned him later, Farah claimed he'd never had an infusion and that Salazar never told him to have one. After five hours of questioning, Farah left the interview, only to return shortly to change his story and acknowledge that he had received the infusion.
After years of Salazar's rumors and denials, the USADA sanctioned him in 2019.
In September 2019, more than 14 years after a USADA hotline got its first tip that Salazar was a drug cheat, the USADA banned Salazar ­ and Brown ­ from sports for four years. World Athletics and the USADA told Salazar's runners that he could no longer coach them.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2021-02-13 16:35:35 CET

www.getabstract.com 5 of 6

"No last-minute advice. No pep talks. No pre-race pills. Instantly, Salazar was radioactive." In 2020, the US Center for SafeSport scrutinized Salazar for emotional abuse of his athletes. Mary Cain, recruited by Salazar as a high school phenom, reported that he insisted arbitrarily that she could weigh no more than 114 pounds. He'd weigh her in front of teammates and, if she exceeded the weight, he'd tell her to take birth control pills or diuretics. After suffering broken bones, Cain became suicidal and began cutting herself. Another female runner, who weighed 112 pounds, said Salazar mocked her after a bad race for having "the biggest butt on the start line."Kara Goucher reported that while she and Salazar were flying to a meet in South Korea, he got drunk and attempted to kiss her. His runners confirmed that the coach had emotionally abused them. Driven to win at nearly any cost, the coach had run too far outside the lines.
About the Author
Matt Hart covers sports science and performance-enhancing drugs. His work has appeared in The New York Times, National Geographic Adventure and Outside.
Did you like this summary? Buy book or audiobook http://getab.li/41047
This document is restricted to the personal use of Jason Davis (jason.s.davis@accenture.com) getAbstract maintains complete editorial responsibility for all parts of this review. All rights reserved. No part of this review may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means ­ electronic, photocopying or otherwise ­ without prior written permission of getAbstract AG (Switzerland).
6 of 6
BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2021-02-13 16:35:35 CET

