Rating
8

Qualities Applicable Overview Concrete Examples

Leader's Block
How Great Leaders Recover After They Stumble
Ritu Gupta Mehrish | Copyright ® Ritu Gupta Mehrish 2019 First published by Penguin Random House India From LEADER'S BLOCK by Ritu G.
Mehrish Summarized by arrangement with Penguin Random House India.
According to executive coach Ritu Gupta Mehrish, all leaders, at some point, feel "blocked." Drawing on her experience working with organizations like P&G, Mehrish points out that while information on how leaders can boost their effectiveness abounds, finding practical help for dealing with your emotions if you're in a leadership position is another story. In the past, people didn't discuss what she dubs "leader's block," but organizations can't survive if their leaders feel unable to perform well. The solution, Mehrish says, is to identify what may be blocking your leaders, and take steps to help them return to full effectiveness.
Take-Aways
Ę Leaders can find it hard to address their emotional concerns. Ę Most often, executives face leader's block several years into their career. Ę When conditions are mostly static, leader's block does not significantly challenge people or
their organizations. Ę Blocked leaders can hurt their teams. Ę Both internal and external factors can cause leader's block. Ę Leaders can feel blocked for reasons beyond their control. Ę Several factors can make leaders feel that they lack control. Ę Leaders betray that they feel blocked by acting cynical and skeptical. Ę No one method can overcome leader's block.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-06 15:59:20 CET

www.getabstract.com

Summary
Leaders can find it hard to address their emotional concerns.
Leaders can access countless books and articles on how to boost their profits, hire effectively and apply other work-related skills. But they have great difficulty finding information or assistance when they need to deal with feeling dull, perplexed or unmotivated. Leaders who face these troubling feelings for a sustained period may be suffering from "leader's block."
Leader's block is akin to a condition known to authors as "writer's block," which is difficulty being creative, energized and productive.
"The first impact of a blocked leader is on the team's morale. An uninspired leader cannot inspire the team. A demotivated manager cannot motivate the team."
Managers afflicted by leader's block lose their enthusiasm for their work; they find that they can't perform to their usual standards. Quite often, their self-esteem and concentration suffer, and they make inappropriate or ineffective decisions.
Most often, managers face leader's block several years into their career.
Leaders are most likely to face leader's block after more than 15 years on the job. When people begin their careers, their work tends to follow a well-structured process. If they get stuck, they can turn to their senior manager or colleagues for help. As managers rise in the executive hierarchy, they face more complexity. Instead of following set paths, they have to create procedures and establish goals.
"Seasoned leaders do a good job of managing their emotions and are careful not to expose them very often, but as humans we all have our threshold."
Leaders often fear that others will see them as weak if they confess to negative emotions, so they try to manage everything alone. If you have a common cold and don't treat it, you could become susceptible to flu or even pneumonia. Similarly, leaders who lack inspiration for a short period may be getting an early warning sign of leader's block. If they don't treat their symptoms in time, they could, eventually, suffer burnout.
When conditions are mostly static, leader's block does not significantly challenge people or their organizations.
With the speed of change increasing, neither organizations nor individuals can survive in the hands of blocked leaders. If companies can identify cases of leader's block, they can help their leaders return to effectiveness.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-06 15:59:20 CET

www.getabstract.com 2 of 6

"This inner noise translates into the leaders becoming irritable, short-tempered, moody and volatile."
Leader's block can have a damaging effect on a firm and its employees. The people outside an organization probably regard its leaders as successful people leading enviable lives. However, those who suffer from leader's block can feel emotionally volatile. They may not make sound decisions. In turn, their questionable choices may upset their team, colleagues and upper management.
When leaders experience a loss of confidence, some feel they have to change jobs to get back on track. Those who take this step often regret it, however, because the change doesn't remedy this situation.
Blocked leaders can hurt their teams.
Blocked leaders can adversely affect how their teams function. This might result in unnecessary turnover as team members switch to other parts of the organization or, simply, leave. Blocked leaders do not engage with their people or their tasks, and that leads to worker disengagement as well. The Gallup Business Journal finds that employees managed by "engaged managers" had a 50% greater probability of feeling engaged themselves than those managed by "disengaged managers."
Both internal and external factors can cause leader's block.
The "triggers" or factors that cause leader's block can be internal or external. Internal triggers include a leader's self-expectations or "role fatigue" Ł a sense of boredom at work. External triggers may come from a leader's relationship with his or her supervisors, a need for a more challenging role or shifts in the economy or other outside influences on the company.
"When employees are not performing at an optimum level, it has a huge impact on the productivity of the organization. The impact is amplified when this happens to leaders."
A lack of fresh challenges or opportunities to learn can cause role fatigue. Most leaders grow bored with their jobs after a few years. When they begin a new role, they perform successfully and implement innovative ideas. After some time, they begin to struggle to find new avenues for growth and creativity. As they rise in an organization, they may find fewer new roles to take on. Leaders who perform well may become discontented if they don't achieve promotion or earn fresh challenges.
Leaders can feel blocked for reasons beyond their control.
How well employees perform can depend on their supervisors Ł and that applies to leaders and their higher-ups as well. Leaders and their supervisors could differ in how

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-06 15:59:20 CET

www.getabstract.com 3 of 6

they handle tasks, in the management strategies they like and in their strategic framework. These divergent perspectives are helpful when they boost the team's performance. But if such differences impede progress in meeting expected goals and standards, leaders higher up in the enterprise should take note.
The challenges involved in taking on a new, more complicated role may overwhelm some leaders. Those grappling with the scope of new responsibilities or getting adjusted to a new organization may confront a variety of factors that reduce their confidence. Senior leaders could find it difficult to abandon processes they used in the past and to acquire new skills.
"The corporate world teaches us to fake it very well. Even though we may be feeling bored, disengaged, lost and cynical, we have to put on a brave front with our teams and stakeholders."
Leaders who take on new responsibilities can succumb to "imposter syndrome," that is, they may feel their organization has promoted them to a role for which they lack the skills or capacity. Leaders must have the confidence and courage to implement their vision before others will believe in them. However, those who can call on coaches and mentors for assistance may find it easier to muster this inner strength.
Leaders may feel blocked and experience frustration also if they discover their perspective doesn't align with the prevailing views within their organization. For example, a new leader who believes in risk and innovation will feel out place in an organization with a culture of sticking to the tried and tested.
Several factors can make leaders feel that they lack control.
Shifting circumstances Ł such as an acquisition or an abrupt shift in economic conditions that limit a manager's actions Ł may bring on leader's block. A leader who can't do much to help out in a bad situation can feel blocked.
The reasons behind leader's block tend to fall into four broad categories:
1. "Systemic" Ł Blocks brought about by shifts in the organizational environment. 2. "Personality" Ł Blocks brought about by the personality of leaders who want more tangible
rewards and greater stimulation. 3. "Situational" Ł Blocks brought about by changes in the economy, the organization or the
community's business climate. 4. "Personal" Ł Blocks brought about due to factors related to health, family or personal
circumstances.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-06 15:59:20 CET

www.getabstract.com 4 of 6

Leaders betray that they feel blocked by acting cynical and skeptical.
While other people might recognize that an executive is suffering from leader's block, leaders themselves may not observe the signs. Not all blocked leaders behave alike, but their struggles often manifest in similar ways. For example, a blocked leader usually has a more skeptical and cynical perspective.
Paradoxically, blocked leaders often invest more energy in their work. They want to prove themselves, and they labor to stay occupied. Unfortunately, these efforts may go to waste because blocked leaders often focus on the wrong things. They don't take time for introspection and may fail to acknowledge their true problems or the issues that are affecting their team.
Leaders experience angst when going through leader's block. If they don't address the issues behind their disquiet, they risk burnout. When their emotional trouble lasts for several weeks, they are likely to become increasingly dispirited.
You may have leader's block if you tend to function on autopilot, adopt a negative point of view, work hard without making good progress toward your goals, micromanage, lack direction, or react to other people with irritation or anger.
No one method can overcome leader's block.
You can use a variety of strategies to deal with leader's block, depending on your context and your personality. These approaches vary from making small changes in your behavior to taking drastic action, like changing your job.
"Leadership is a journey. Every journey, whether it is via road, air or water, will have its own speed breakers, turbulence or high tides."
Most leaders can and do overcome leader's block, but they must act in the face of feeling blocked, or they risk remaining unhappy for extended periods of time. Take action as soon as you see the need. You can choose from among five broad approaches, encapsulated by the acronym, "BLOCK":
Ę "Big picture" Ł Executives who are going through periods of leader's block feel they've lost direction and lack a clear grasp of their objectives. These leaders should attempt to get an overall perspective about where they want to go. They need to investigate what is stopping them from achieving their goals. Uncovering the answer to this question may call for the assistance of a trusted mentor or coach. Leadership and motivation author Simon Sinek urges people to determine their "Why": He suggests that everyone has a purpose and that identifying it helps motivate people so they can make choices and achieve greater fulfillment.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-06 15:59:20 CET

www.getabstract.com 5 of 6

Ę "Let it pass" Ł This may seem counterintuitive, but sometimes blocked leaders should just bide their time. This approach works when leaders don't fully control their situation. It can help them cope with change brought about by shifts in the economy or changes in a corporate structure, such as the impact of a merger or acquisition. Leaders tend to believe in action, but if they make unwarranted decisions that don't really fit their situation, they could damage their careers. So, sometimes, it is best to just wait and see what happens.
Ę "Opinions of people" Ł When feeling blocked, leaders often behave differently, though they may not recognize they are doing so. Leaders can gain an advantage by accepting feedback from people around them. If your leader is acting abnormally, seek guidance from other managers or talk to a trusted friend or relative.
Ę "Change lanes" Ł Leaders who can't wait until things straighten themselves out need to act. They might need to change their psychological stance, their position within their company or their boss. They may even need to join a new company. By acting decisively, leaders can regain control instead of feeling ineffectual. Old behavior patterns can still trap leaders who need to abandon outdated ways of thinking and adopt new approaches. Real changes in a leader's behavior can help him or her get beyond feeling blocked. Reflect on what may be stopping you from changing your behavior. Ask what changes could be helpful.
Ę "Kinship" Ł Being a leader requires you to function well in public for long periods of time, and you often can't do that without support. Leaders need people with whom they feel comfortable. Having friends at work helps build motivation. Leaders need to create links with influential people in their organization, and they need mentors who can draw on their experience and knowledge to help them get back on track if leader's block creates impediments.
About the Author
Executive coach and frequent public speaker Ritu Gupta Mehrish has 20 years of experience working with major corporations.
Did you like this summary? Buy book or audiobook http://getab.li/37457
This document is restricted to the personal use of Jason Davis (jason.s.davis@accenture.com) getAbstract maintains complete editorial responsibility for all parts of this review. All rights reserved. No part of this review may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means Ł electronic, photocopying or otherwise Ł without prior written permission of getAbstract AG (Switzerland).
6 of 6
BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-11-06 15:59:20 CET

