The    Christian

In   Complete  
Armour

 

 

Volume   Two

A Treatise of

 

The Whole Armour of God

 

 

 

     “Wherefore take unto you the whole armour
of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all,
to stand.

“Stand
therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the
breastplate of righteousness; and your feet shod with the preparation of the
gospel of peace; above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be
able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.  And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit,
which is the word of God: praying always with all prayer and supplication in
the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perse­verance and supplication for
all saints; and for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my
mouth boldly, to make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an
ambassador in bonds: that therein I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak.”

—
Ephesians, chap. 6 vv. 13-20

 

 

 

Part Second.—Direction Eighth.

 

The
Several Pieces of the Whole Armour of God.

 

Fourth Piece—The
Christian’s Spiritual Shield.

 

‘Above all, taking
the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench

all the fiery darts
of the wicked.’

— Ephesians 6:16

 

         The Fourth piece in the Christian’s
panoply presents itself in this verse to our consideration —and that is The Shield of Faith.  A grace of graces it is, and here fitly
placed in the midst of her other companions. 
It stands, methinks, among them, as the heart in the midst of the body;
or, if you please, as David when Samuel ‘anointed him in the midst of his
brethren,’ I
Sam. 16:13.  The apostle, when he comes to speak of this
grace doth, as it were, lift up its head, and anoint it above all its fellows—‘above
all, take the shield of faith.’  The
words easily fall into these two general parts.  FIRST. An exhortation—‘above all, take the shield of faith.’  SECOND. A powerful argument pressing the
exhortation—‘whereby ye are able to quench the fiery darts of the wicked.’

 

 

explication of the words.

 

           In the exhortation ‘Above all, taking
the shield of faith, whereby ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of
the wicked,’ these four particulars call for our inquiry towards the
explication of the words.  First. What faith it is that is here
commended to the Christian soldier.  Second. Having found the kind, we are to
inquire what his faith is as to its nature. 
Third. Why it is compared
to a shield rather than other pieces. Fourth.
What is the importance of this §B4 B�F4<,
‘above all.’

 

 

[The kind of faith here meant.]

 

           First
Inquiry.  What faith is it
that here is commended?  This will
soon be known, if we consider the use and end for which it is commended to the
Christian, and that is to enable him to ‘quench all the fiery darts of the
wicked;’ i.e. of the wicked one, the devil.  Now, look upon the several kinds of faith, and that among them
must be the faith of this place which enables the creature to quench Satan’s
fiery darts, yea, all his fiery darts.  Historical
faith cannot do this, and therefore is not it.  This is so far from quenching Satan’s fiery darts, that the devil
himself, that shoots them, hath this faith. 
‘The devils believe,’ James 2:19.  Temporary faith cannot do it.  This is so far from quenching Satan’s fiery
darts, that itself is quenched by them. 
It makes a goodly blaze of profession, and ‘endures for a while,’ Matt. 13:21,
but soon disappears.  Miraculous
faith, this falls as short as the former. 
Judas’ miraculous faith, which he had with other of the apostles—for
aught that we can read —enabling him to cast devils out of others, left himself
possessed of the devil of covetousness, hypoc­risy, and treason; yea, a whole
legion of lusts, that hurried him down the hill of despair into the bottomless
pit of perdition.  There is only one
kind of faith remains, which is it the apostle means in this place, and that is
justifying faith.  This indeed is
the grace that makes him, whoever hath it, the devil’s match.  Satan hath not so much advantage of the
Christian by the transcendency of his natural abilities, as he hath of Satan in
this cause and this his weapon.  The
apos­tle is confident to give the day to the Christian before the fight is
fully over: ‘Ye have overcome the wicked one,’ I John 2:13,
that is, ye are as sure to do it as if you were now mounted on your triumphant
chariot in heaven.  The knight shall
overcome the giant; the saint, Satan; and the same apostle tells us what gets
him the day. ‘This is the victory that over­cometh the world, even our faith,’ I John 5:4.

 

[Justifying faith, as to its nature.]

 

           Second
Inquiry.  What is this
justifying faith as to its nature?

           I shall answer this, First.
Negatively.  Second. Af­firmatively.

           First. Negatively, in two
particulars.

           1. Justifying faith is not a naked
assent to the truths of the gospel. 
This justifying faith doth give; but this doth not make it justifying
faith.  A dogmat­ical faith, or
historical, is comprehended in justifying faith.  But dogmatical faith doth not infer justifying faith.  Justifying faith cannot be without a
dogmatical; it implies it, as the rational soul in man doth the sen­sitive.  But, the dogmatical may be without the justi­fying,
as the sensitive soul in the beast without the ra­tional.  Judas knew the Scriptures, and without doubt
did assent to the truth of them, when he was so zeal­ous a preacher of the
gospel; but he never had so much as one dram of jus­tifying faith in his
soul.  ‘But there are some of you that
believe not.  For Jesus knew from the
beginning who they were that believed not, and who should betray him,’ John 6:64.  Yea, Ju­das’ master, the devil himself—one
far enough, I sup­pose, from justifying faith—yet he assents to the truth of
the word.  He goes against his
conscience who denies them.  When he
tempted Christ he did not dispute against the Scripture, but from the
Scripture, drawing his arrows out of this quiver, Matt. 4:6.
And at another time, he makes as full a confession of Christ, for the matter,
as Peter himself did, Matt.
8:29, compared with Matt. 16:17. 
Assent to the truth of the word is but an act of the understanding,
which reprobates and devils may exercise; but justifying faith is a compounded
habit, and hath its seat both in the under­standing and will; and therefore [it
is] called a ‘believing with the heart,’ Rom. 10:10; yea, a ‘believing
with all the heart,’ Acts
8:37.  ‘Philip said,
If thou be­lievest with all thine heart, thou mayest.’  It takes all the powers of the soul.  There is a double object in the promise—one
proper to the understanding, to move that; another proper to the will, to excite
and work upon that.  As the promise is
true, so it calls for an act of assent from the understanding; and as it is
good as well as true, so it calls for an act of the will to embrace and receive
it.  Therefore, he which only no­tionally
knows the promise, and speculatively assents to the truth of it, without
clinging to it, and embracing of it, doth not believe savingly, and can have no
more benefit from the promise, than nourishment from the food he sees and
acknowledgeth to be wholesome, but eats none of.

           2. Justifying faith is not
assurance.  If it were, St. John
might have spared his pains, who wrote to them that ‘believed on the name of
the Son of God; that ye may know that ye have eternal life,’ I John 5:13.  They might then have said ‘We do this already.  What else is our faith, but a believing that
we are such as through Christ are pardoned, and shall through him be saved?’
But this cannot be so.  If faith were
assurance, then a man’s sins would be pardoned before he believes, for he must
necessarily be pardoned before he can know he is pardoned.  The candle must be lighted before I can see
it is lighted.  The child must be born
before I can be assured it is born.  The
object must be before the act. 
Assurance rather is the fruit of faith. 
It is in faith as the flower is in the root.  Faith, in time, after much communion with God, ac­quaintance with
the word, and experience of his deal­ings with the soul, may flourish into
assurance.  But, as the root truly lives
before the flower appears, and continues when that hath shed its beautiful
leaves, and gone again; so doth true justifying faith live before assurance
comes, and after it disappears.  As­surance
is, as it were, the cream of faith.  Now
you know there is milk before there is cream, this riseth not but after some
time standing, and there remains milk after it is fleted off.  How many, alas! of the precious saints of
God must we shut out from being believers, if there is no faith but what
amounts to assurance?  We must needs
offend against the generation of God’s children, among whom some are babes, not
yet come to the use of their reflex act of faith, so as to own the graces of
God in them to be true, upon the review that they take of their own
actings.  And, must not the child be
allowed to be a child, till he can speak for himself, and say he is so?  Others there are in Christ's family, who are
of higher stature and great­er experience in the ways of God, yet have lost
those apprehensions of pardoning mercy, which once they were, through the goodness
of God, able to have shown—shall we say their faith went away in the de­parture
of their assurance?  How oft then in a
year may a believer be no believer? even as oft as God withdraws and leaves the
creature in the dark.  Assur­ance is
like the sun-flower, which opens with the day and shuts with the night.  It follows the motion of God’s face.  If that looks smilingly on the soul, it
lives; if that frowns or hides itself, it dies.  But faith is a plant that can grow in the shade, a grace that can
find the way to heaven in a dark night. 
It can ‘walk in darkness,’ and yet ‘trust in the name of the Lord,’ Isa. 50:10.  In a word, by making the essence of faith to
lie in assurance, we should not only offend against the generation of God's
children, but against the God and Father of these children; for at one clap we
turn the greater number of those children he hath here on earth out of
doors.  Yes, we are cruel to those he is
most tender of, and make sad the hearts of those that he would have chiefly comforted.  Indeed if this were true, a great part of
gospel provision laid up in the promises is of little use.  We read of promises to those that mourn,
‘they shall be comforted,’ to the contrite, ‘they shall be revived,’ to him
that ‘walks in darkness,’ and the like. 
These belong to believers, and none else.  Surely then there are some believers that are in the dark, under
the hatches of sorrow, wounded and broken with their sins, and temptation for
them.  But they are not such as are
assured of the love of God; their water is turned into joy, their night into
light, their sighs and sobs into joy and praise.

           Second. I shall answer affirmatively,
what justi­fying faith is, and in the description of it I shall con­sider it
solely as justifying.  And so
take it in these few words—It is the act of the soul whereby it rests on Christ
crucified for pardon and life, and that upon the warrant of the promise.  In the description observe,

           1. The subject where faith is seated,
not any single faculty, but the soul. 
2. The object of faith as justifying—Christ crucified.  3. The act of faith upon this object, and
that is resting on Christ crucified for pardon and life.  4. The warrant and security that faith goes
upon in this act.

           1. The subject where faith is
seated, not any sin­gle faculty, but the soul.  Of this I have spoken some­thing before, and
so pass on to the second point.

           2. Here is the object of faith as
justifying, and that is Christ crucified.  The whole truth of God is the object of justifying faith.  It trades with the whole word of God, and
doth firmly assent unto it; but, in its justifying act, it singles out Christ
crucified for its object.  (1.) The
person of Christ is the object of faith as justifying.  (2.) Christ as crucified.

           (1.) The person of Christ.  Not any axiom or proposition in the
word.  This is the object of assurance,
not of faith.  Assurance saith ‘I
believe my sins are pardoned through Christ.’ 
Faith’s language is, ‘I believe on Christ for the pardon of them.’  The word of God doth direct our faith to
Christ, and terminates it upon him; called therefore, a ‘coming to Christ,’ Matt. 11:28,
a ‘receiving of him,’ John
1:12, a ‘believing on him,’ John 17:20.  The promise is but the dish in which Christ,
the true food of the soul, is served up; and, if faith’s hand be on the
promise, it is but as one that draws the dish to him, that he may come at the
dainties in it.  The promise is the
marriage-ring on the hand of faith.  Now
we are not married to the ring, but with it unto Christ.  ‘All the promises,’ saith the apostle, ‘are
yea and amen in him.’  They have their
excellency from him, and efficacy in him—I mean in a soul’s union to him.  To run away with a promise, and not to close
with Christ, and by faith become one in him, is as if a man should rend a
branch from a tree, and lay it up in his chest, expecting it to bear fruit
there.  Promises are dead branches
severed from Christ.  But when a soul by
faith becomes united to Christ, then he partakes of all his fatness; not a promise
but yields sweetness to it.

           (2.) As Christ is the primary object
of faith, so Christ as crucified. 
Not Christ in his personal ex­cellencies—so he is the object rather of
our love than faith—but as bleeding, and that to death, under the hand of divine
justice for to make an atonement by God’s own appointment for the sins of the
world.  As the handmaid’s eye is to her
mistress’s hand for direc­tion, so faith’s eye is on God revealing himself in
his word; which way God by it points the soul, thither it goes.  Now there faith finds God, intending to save
poor sinners, pitched on Christ, and Christ alone, for the transacting and
effecting of it, and him whom God chooseth to trust with the work—him and him
alone—will faith choose to lay the burden of her confidence on.

           Again, faith observes how Christ
performed this great work, and accordingly how the promise holds him forth to
be applied for pardon and salvation. Now faith finds that then Christ made the
full payment to the jus­tice of God for sin, when he poured out his blood to
death upon the cross.  All the prece­daneous[1]
acts of his humiliation were but preparatory to this.  He was born to die; he was sent into the world as a lamb bound
with the bonds of an irreversible decree for a sacrifice.  Christ himself when he came into the world
understood this to be the errand he was sent on, Heb. 10:5.  ‘Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he
saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared
me;’ i.e. to be an expiatory sacrifice. 
Without this, all he had done would have been labour undone. No
redemption but by his blood, ‘In whom we have re­demption through his blood,
the forgiveness of sins,’ Eph.
1:7.  No church
without his blood, ‘The church of God, which he hath purchased with his own
blood,’ Acts
20:28.  E latere
Christi morientis exstitit ecclesia— the church is taken out of dying
Jesus’ side, as Eve out of sleeping Adam’s. 
Christ did not redeem and save poor souls by sitting in majesty on his
heavenly throne, but by hanging on the shameful cross, under the tormenting
hand of man’s fury and God’s just wrath. 
And therefore the poor soul, that would have pardon of sin, is directed
to place his faith not only on Christ, but on bleeding Christ, Rom. 3:25:
‘Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood.’

           3. The act of faith upon this object,
and that is resting on Christ crucified for pardon and life.  I know there are many acts of the soul
antecedent to this, without which the creature can never truly exer­cise
this.  As knowledge, especially of God
and Christ, upon whose authority and testimony it relies: ‘I know whom I have
believed,’ II
Tim. 1:12.  None
will readily trust a stranger that he is wholly unacquainted with. Abraham
indeed went he knew not whither, but he did not go with he knew not whom.  The greatest thing God laboured to instruct
Abraham in, and satisfy him with, was—

           (1.) The knowledge of his own
glorious self —who he was—that he might take his word and rely on it, how
harsh and improbable, soever it might sound in sense or reason’s ear, ‘I am
Almighty God, walk before me, and be thou perfect.’

           (2.) Assent to the truth of the
word of God.  If this
foundation-stone be not laid, faith's building cannot go on.  Who will trust him that he dares not think
speaks true?

           (3.) A sense of our own vileness
and emptiness. By the one he means us see our demerit, what we deserve,
hell and damnation; by the other, our own impotency, how little we can
contribute—yea, just nothing, to our own reconciliation.  I join them together, because the one
ariseth out of the other. Sense of this emptiness comes from the deep
apprehensions a soul hath of the other’s fulness in him. You never knew a man
full of self-confidence and self-abasement together.  The con­science cannot abound with the sense of sin and the heart
with self-conceit at the same time. 
‘When the commandment came, sin revived, and I died,’ Rom. 7:9—that
is, when the commandment came, in the accusations of it, to his conscience,
sin, like a sleepy lion had lain still, and he secure and confident by it, when
that began to roar in his conscience, then he died—that is, his vain-confidence
of himself gave up the ghost.  Both
these are necessary to faith—sense of sin, like the smart of a wound, to make
the creature think of a plaster to cure it; and sense of emptiness and
insufficiency in himself or any creature to do the cure necessary to make him
go out to Christ for cure.  We do not go
abroad to beg what we have of our own within doors. These, with some other, are
necessary to faith.  But the receiving
of Christ, and resting on Christ, is that act of faith to which justification
is promised.  ‘He that believeth on him
is not condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he
hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God,’ John 3:18.  Now every one that assents to the truth of
what the Scripture saith of Christ, doth not believe on Christ.  No; This believing on Christ im­plies an
union of the soul to Christ and fiduciary re­cumbency on Christ.  Therefore we are bid to take hold of Christ,
Isa. 27:5,
who is there called God’s ‘strength,’ as elsewhere his arm—‘that we may make
peace with God, and we shall make peace with him.’ It is not the sight of a
man's arm stretched out to a man in the water will save him from drowning, but
the taking hold of it.  Christ is a
stone.  Faith builds upon Christ for
salvation.  And how? but by laying its
whole weight and expectation of mercy on him. 
What Paul, II
Tim. 1:12, calls ‘believing’ in the former part of the
verse, he calls in the latter part a ‘committing to him to be kept against that
day.’

           (4.) The fourth and last branch in the
description, is the warrant and security that faith goes upon in this act.  And this it takes from the promise.  In­deed, there is no way how God can be
conceived to contract a debt to his creature but by promise.  There are ways for men to become debtors one
to another, though never any promise passed from them. The fa­ther is a debtor
to his child, and owes him love, provi­sion, and nurture.  The child is a debtor to his parent, and
owes him honour and obedience, though neither of them promised this to each
other.  Much more doth the creature
stand deep in God’s debt-book, and owes himself with all he hath to God his
Maker, though he hath not the grace voluntarily to make these over to God by
promise and covenant.  But the great God
is so absolute a Sovereign, that none can make a law to bind him but
himself.  Till he be pleased to pass an
act of grace, of his own good-will, to give this or do that good thing to and
for his poor creatures, no claim can be laid to the least mercy at his
hands.  There are two things therefore
that are greatly to be heeded by the soul that would believe.

           (1.) He must inquire for a promise to
bear his faith out, and warrant him to expect such a mercy at God’s hand.

           (2.) Again, when he hath found a
promise, and observed the terms well on which it runs, the Chris­tian is not to
stay for any further encouragement, but upon the credit of the naked promise to
set his faith on work.

           (a) He is to inquire out a
promise, and observe well the terms on which it runs.  Indeed upon the point it comes all to one;
to believe without a promise, or to believe on a promise, but not observe the
terms of it. Both are presumptuous, and speed alike. A prince hath as much
reason to be angry with him that doth not keep close to his commission, as with
another that acts without any commission. O how little considered is this by
many who make bold of God’s arm to lean on for pardon and salvation, but never
think that the promise, which presents Christ to leaned on as a Saviour,
presents him at the same time to be chosen as a Lord and Prince!  Such were the rebellious Israelites, who
durst make God and his promise a leaning-stock for their foul elbows to rest
on.  ‘They call themselves of the holy
city, and stay themselves upon the God of Israel; The Lord of hosts is his
name,’ Isa.
48:2; but they were more bold than welcome.  God rejected their confidence and loathed
their sauciness.  Though a prince would
not disdain to let a poor wounded man, faint with bleeding, and unable to go
alone, upon his humble request, make use of his arm, rather than he should
perish in the streets; yet he would, with indignation, reject the same motion
from a filthy drunkard that is be­smeared with his vomit, if he should desire
leave to lean on him because he cannot go alone.  I am sure, how welcome soever the poor humble soul—that lies
bleeding for his sins at the very mouth of hell in his own thoughts—is to God
when he comes upon the encouragement of the promise to lean on Christ, yet the
profane wretch that emboldens himself to come to Christ, shall be kicked away
with infinite disdain and abhorrency by a holy God for abusing his   promise.

           (b) When a poor sinner hath
found a promise, and observes the terms with a heart willing to embrace them,
now he is to put forth an act of faith upon the credit of the naked promise,
without staying for any other encouragement elsewhere.  Faith is a right pilgrim-grace; it travels
with us to heaven, and when it sees us safe got within our Father’s doors
—heaven I mean—it takes leave of us. 
Now, the promise is this pilgrim’s staff with which it sets forth,
though, like Jacob on his way to Padan-aram, it hath nothing else with it.  ‘Remember the word unto thy servant,’ saith
David, ‘upon which thou hast caused me to hope,’ Ps. 119:49.  The word of promise was all he had to show,
and he counts that enough to set his faith on work.  But alas! some make comfort the ground of faith, and experience
their warrant to believe.  They will
believe when God manifests him­self to them, and sends in some sensible
demonstra­tion of his love to their souls; but, till this be done, the promise
hath little authority to silence their unbe­lieving cavils, and quiet their
misgiving hearts into a waiting on God for the performance of what there is
spoken from God's own mouth.  It is like
old Jacob, who gave no credit to his children when they told him Joseph was yet
alive and governor over all the land of Egypt. 
This news was too good and great to enter into his belief, who had given
him {up} for dead {for} so long; it is said, ‘his heart fainted, for he
believed them not,’ Gen.
45:26.  But when he saw
the wagons that Joseph had sent to carry him thither, then it is said, ‘the
spirit of Jacob revived,’ ver.
27. Truly thus, though the promise tells the poor humbled
sinner Christ is alive, governor of heaven itself, with all power there and on
earth put into his hand, that he may give eternal life unto all that believe on
him, and he be therefore exhorted to rest upon Christ in the promise, yet his
heart faints and believes not. It is the wagons he would fain see—some sensible
expressions of God’s love that he listens after—if he did but know that he was
an elect person, or were one that God did love, then he would believe.  But God hath little reason to thank him in
the meantime for suspending his faith till these come.  This is, as I may so say, to believe for
spiritual loves, and is rather sense than faith.

 

[Why faith is compared to a shield.]

 

           Third
Inquiry. Why is faith compared to a shield?

           It is so, because of a double
resemblance that is between this grace and that piece of armour.

           First Resemblance.  This shield is not for the de­fence of
any particular part of the body—as almost all the other pieces are—the
helmet fitted for the head, the plate designed for the breast, and so others
having their several parts which they are fastened to—but is intended for
the defence of the whole body.  It
was used therefore to be made very large, for its broadness called 2LD,ÎH,
of {from} 2bD", a gate or door,
because so long and large as in a manner to cover the whole body.  To this that place alludes, ‘For thou, Lord,
wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou compass him as with a shield,’ Ps. 5:12.  And if the shield were not large enough at
once to cover every part, yet, being a movable piece of armour, the skilful
soldier might turn it this way or that way, to latch the blow or arrow from
lighting on any part they were directed to. 
And this indeed doth excellently well set forth the universal use that
faith is of to the Christian. It defends the whole man; every part of the
Christian by it preserved.  Sometimes
the temptation is levelled at the head. 
Satan, he will be disputing against this truth and that, to make the
Christian, if he can, call them into question, merely because his reason and
understanding cannot comprehend them; and he pre­vails with some that do not
think themselves the un­wisest in the world, upon this very account, to blot
the deity of Christ, with other mysterious truths of the gospel, quite out of
their creed.  Now faith inter­poseth
between the Christian and this arrow. 
It comes into the relief of the Christian’s weak under­standing as
seasonably as Zeruiah did to David, when the giant Ishbi-benob thought to have
slain him.  I will trust the word of
God, saith the believer, rather than my own purblind reason.  ‘Abraham not being weak in faith, he
considered not his own body now dead,’ Rom. 4:19.  If sense should have had the hearing of that
business, yea, if that holy man had put it to a reference between sense and
reason also, what resolution his thoughts should come to concerning this
strange message that was brought him, he would have been in danger of calling
the truth of it in question, though God himself was the messenger; but faith
brought him honourably off.

           Again, Is it conscience that
the tempter assaults? —and it is not seldom that he is shooting his fiery darts
of horror and terror at his mark.  Faith
receives the shock, and saves the creature harmless: ‘I had fainted, unless I
had believed,’ saith David, Ps. 27:13. He means when false witnesses rose
up against him, and such as breathed out cruelty, as appears, ver. 12.  Faith was his best fence against man's
charge; and so it is against Satan’s and conscience's also.  Never was a man in a sadder condition than
the poor jailer, Acts
16.  Much ado he had
to keep his own hands from offering violence to himself.  Who that had seen him fall trembling at the
feet of Paul and Silas, with that sad question in his mouth, ‘Sirs, what must I
do to be saved?’ ver.
30, could have thought this deep wound that was now given
his conscience, would so soon have been closed and cured as we find it, ver. 34.  The earthquake of horror that did so dreadfully
shake his conscience is gone, and his trembling turned into rejoicing.  Now mark what made this blessed calm.
‘Believe,’ saith Paul, ‘on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved,’ ver. 31;
and ver.
34, it is said, he ‘rejoiced, believing in God with all his
house.’  It is faith stills the storm
which sin had raised—faith that changed his doleful note into joy and
gladness.  Hap­py man he was, that had
such skilful chirurgeons so near him, who could direct him the nearest way to a
cure.

           Again, Is it the will that the
temptation is laid to catch?  Some
commands of God cannot be obeyed without much self-denial, because they cross
us in that which our own wills are carried forth very strong­ly to desire; so
that we must deny our will before we can do the will of God.  Now a temptation comes very forcible, when
it runs with the tide of our own wills. ‘What,’ saith Satan, ‘wilt thou serve a
God that thus thwarts thee in everything?’ 
If thou lovest anything more than another, presently he must have that
from thee.  No lamb in all the flock
will serve for a sacrifice, but Isaac, Abraham’s only child, he must be offered
up.  No place will content God, that
Abraham should serve him in, but where he must live in ban­ishment from his
dear relations and acquaintance. ‘Wilt thou,’ saith Satan, ‘yield to such hard
terms as these?’  Now faith is the grace
that doth the soul ad­mirable service at such a pinch as this.  It is able to appease the tumult which such
a temptation may raise in the soul, and dismiss the rout of all mutinous
thoughts, yea, to keep the King of heaven's peace so sweetly in the Christian’s
bosom, that such a temptation, if it comes, shall find few or none to declare
for it, ‘By faith,’ it saith, ‘Abraham obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither,’
Heb. 11:8.  And we do not read of one fond look that his
heart cast back upon his dear native country, as he went from it, so well
pleased had faith made him with his journey. 
It was hard work for Moses to strip himself of the magistrate’s robes,
and put his hands on his servants head; hard to leave another to enter upon his
labours, and reap the honour of lodging the Israelites' colours in Canaan,
after it had cost him so many a weary step to bring them within sight of it.  Yet, faith made him willing; he saw better
robes, that he should put on in heaven, than those he was called on to put off
on earth.  The lowest place in glory is,
beyond all compare, greater preferment than the highest place of honour here
below; to stand before the throne there, and minister to God in immediate
service, than to sit in a throne on earth and have all the world waiting at his
foot. 

           Second Resemblance.  The shield doth not only defend the whole
body, but is a defence of the soldier's armour also.  It keeps the arrow from the hel­met as well
as head, from the breast and breast-plate also.  Thus faith it is armour upon armour, a grace that preserves all
the other graces.  But of this more
hereafter.

[The import of the
expression ‘above all.’]

 

           Fourth
Inquiry. What doth this ¦B4
BVF4<, ‘above all,’ import?

           There is variety among interpreters
about it.  Jerome reads it, in
omnibus, sumentes scutum fidei —in all things taking the shield of faith, i.e.
in all duties, enterprises, temptations, or afflictions—in whatever you are
called to do or suffer, take faith. Indeed, faith to the Christian is like fire
to the chem­ist; nothing can be done without it christianly.  ‘But without faith it is impossible to
please God,’ Heb.
11:6.  And how can the
Christian please himself in that wherein he doth not please his God?  Others read it, ‘Over all take the shield of
faith,’ i.e. take it over all your graces, as that which will cover
them.  All other graces have their
safety from faith; they lie secure under the shadow of faith, as an army lies
safe under the protection and command of a strong castle planted round with
cannon.  But we shall follow our
translation, as being most comprehensive, and that which will take these within
its compass.  ‘Above all, take,’
&c., that is, among all the pieces of armour which you are to provide and
wear for your defence, let this have the pre-eminence of your care to get; and
having got, to keep it.  Now, that the
apostle meant to give a preeminency to faith above the other graces appears,

           First. By the piece of
armour he compares it to —the shield. 
This, of old, was prized above all other pieces by soldiers.  They counted it greater shame to lose their
shield, than to lose the field, and therefore when under the very foot of their
enemy, they would not part with it, but esteemed it an honour to die with their
shield in their hand.  It was the charge
that one laid upon her son, going into the wars, when she gave him a shield,
‘that he should either bring his shield home with him, or be brought home upon
his shield.’  She had rather see him
dead with it, than come home alive without it.

           Second. By the noble effect
which is here ascribed to faith—‘by which ye shall quench all the fiery
darts of the wicked.’  The other pieces
are nakedly commended, ‘take the girdle of truth, breast-plate of
righteousness,’ and so the rest; but there is nothing singly ascribed to any of
them, what they can do, yet, when he speaks of faith, he ascribes the whole
victory to it.  This quencheth ‘all the
fiery darts of the wicked.’  And why
thus?  Are the other graces of no use,
and doth faith do all?  What need then
the Christian load himself with more than this one piece? I answer, every piece
hath its necessary use in the Christian's warfare: not any one part of the
whole suit can be spared in the day of battle. 
But the reason, I humbly conceive, why no particular effect is annexed
severally to each of these, but all ascribed to faith, is, to let us know that
all these graces—their efficacy and our benefit from them—is in conjunction
with faith, and the influence they receive from faith; so that this is plainly
the design of the Spirit of God to give faith the precedency in our care above
the rest.  Only, take heed that you do
not fancy any indifferency or negligence to be allowed you in your endeavours
after the other graces, because you are more strongly provoked and excited up
to the getting and keeping this.  The
apostle would intend your care here, but not remit it there.  Cannot we bid a soldier above all parts of
his body to beware of a wound at his heart, but he must needs think presently
he need take no care to guard his head? 
Truly, such a one would deserve a cracked crown to cure him of his
folly.  The word thus op ened, we shall
content ourselves with one general observation from them; and it is this.

 

 

 

 

DIRECTION VIII.—FIRST
GENERAL PART.

 

[The
pre-eminence of faith above other graces.]

 

The
exhortation—‘Above
all, taking the shield of faith’ 
(Eph. 6:16).

 

           Of all graces faith is the chief, and
is chiefly to be laboured for.  There is
a precedency or pre-eminence peculiar to this above all other.  It is among graces, as the sun is among the
planets, or as Solomon’s ‘virtuous woman among the daughters,’ Prov. 31:29.  Though every grace had done virtuously, yet
thou, O faith, excellest them all.  The
apostle indeed give the precedency to love, and sets faith on the lower
hand.  ‘And now abideth faith, hope,
charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity,’  I Cor. 13:13.  Yet, you may observe, that this prelation of
it before faith hath a particular respect to the saints’s blissful state in
heaven, where love remains, and faith ceaseth. 
In that regard love indeed is the greater, because it is the end of our
faith.  We apprehend by faith that we
may enjoy by love.  But, if we consider
the Christian’s present state, while militant on earth, in this respect love
must give place to faith.  It is true,
love is the grace that shall triumph in heaven.  But it is faith, not love, which is the conquering grace on
earth.  ‘This is the victory that
overcometh the world, even our faith,’ I John 5:4.  Love indeed hath its place in the battle,
and doth excellent service, but is under faith its leader.  ‘Faith which worketh by love,’ Gal. 5:6.  Even as the captain fighteth by his soldiers
whom he leads on, so faith works by love which it excites.  Love, it is true, is the grace that at last
possesseth the inheritance, but it is faith that gives the Christian right unto
it.  Without this he should never have
enjoyed it, John
1:12.  In a word, it
is love that unites God and glorified saints together in heaven; but it was
faith that first united them to Christ while they were on earth—‘That Christ
may dwell in your hearts by faith,’ Eph. 3:17. And if Christ had
dwelt in them by faith on earth, they should never have dwelt with God in
heaven.

 

 

BRANCH
FIRST.

 

[Four Particulars in which faith
stands

pre-eminent above
other graces.]

 

           I proceed to show wherein it appears
that faith hath such a pre-eminence above other graces as we previously have
indicated.  This takes in the following
particulars.

           First
Particular.  In the great
inquiry that God makes after faith above all other graces.  Nothing more speaks our esteem of persons or
things than our inquiry after them.  We
ask first and most for those that stand highest in our thoughts.  ‘Is your father well?’ said Joseph, ‘the old
man of whom ye spake?  Is he yet alive?’
Gen.
43:27.  No doubt there
were others of whose welfare Joseph would have been glad to hear also, but
being most pent and pained with a natural affection to his father, he easeth
himself of this first.  And when David
asks for Absalom above all others, ‘Is the young man Absalom safe?’ and over
again with it to Cush, II
Sam. 18, it was easy to guess how highly he valued
his life.  Now you shall find the great
inquiry that God makes is for faith: ‘When the Son of man cometh, shall he find
faith on the earth?’ Luke
18:8—implying that this is the grace which he will especially
look for and desires to find.  We read, John 9,
of a great miracle, a man by Christ restored to his sight that was born
blind.  This so enraged the malicious
Pharisees that they excommunicate the poor man for no other fault but giving
his merciful physician a good word. 
This brings Christ the sooner to him—so tender is he of those that
suffer for him, that they shall not long want his sweet company—and he hath no
cause to complain for being cast out of man’s society that gains Christ’s
presence by the same. Now, observe what Christ saith to him at his first meet­ing,
ver. 35,
‘Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him, he said
unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God?’  The man had already expressed some zeal for Christ, in
vindicating him, and speaking well of him to the head of the bitterest enemies
he had on earth, for which he was now made a sufferer at their hands.  This was very commendable.  But there is one thing Christ prizeth above
all this, and that is faith.  This he
inquires after, ‘Dost thou believe on the Son of God?’  As if he had said, ‘All this thy zeal in
speaking for me, and patience in suffering, are nothing worth in my account
except thou hast faith also.’  Indeed
most of God’s dealings with his people, what are they but inquiries after
faith? either the truth or strength of it. 
When he af­flicts them, it is ‘for the trial of their faith,’ I Peter 1:7.
Afflictions they are God’s spade and mattock, by which he digs into his
people's hearts to find out this gold of faith.  Not but that he inquires for other graces also; but this is named
for all as the chief; which found, all the other will soon appear.  When God seems to delay, and makes, as it
were, a halt in his providence, before he comes with the mercy he prom­iseth,
and we pray for, it is exploratory to faith. 
‘O woman, great is thy faith, be it unto thee even as thou wilt,’ Matt. 15:28.  She had received her answer without so much
ado; only Christ had a mercy in store more than she thought of.  With the granting of her suit in the cure of
her daughter, he had a mind to give her the evidence of her faith also, and the
high esteem God hath of his grace, as that which may have of him what it will.

           Second
Particular.  The commendations
that are given to faith above other graces.  You shall ob­serve, that in the same action wherein other graces
are eminently exercised as well as faith, even then faith is taken notice of,
and the crown set upon faith’s head rather than any of the other.  We hear nothing almost of any other grace
throughout the whole 11th of Hebrews but faith.  ‘By faith Abraham,’ ‘by faith Ja­cob,’ and
the rest of those worthies, did all those fa­mous exploits.  There was a concurrence of the oth­er graces
with faith in them all.  But all goes
under the name of faith.  The whole army
fight, yet the general or the captain hath the honour of the victory ascribed
to him.  Alexander and Cæsar’s names are
transmitted to posterity as the great conquerors that overcame so many battles,
not the private soldiers that fought under them.  Faith is the captain grace. All those fa­mous acts of those
saints are recorded as the achieve­ments of faith.  Thus concerning the centurion, ‘Veri­ly,’ saith Christ, ‘I have
not found so great faith, no, not in Israel,’ Matt. 8:10.  There were other graces very eminent in the
centurion besides his faith;—his con­scientious care of his poor servant, for
whom he could have done no more if he had been his own child. There are some
that call themselves Christians, yet would not have troubled themselves so much
for a sick servant.  Such, alas! are oft
less regarded in sickness than their master's beast.  But, especially his humility; this shined forth very eminently in
that self-abasing expression: ‘Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come
under my roof,’ Matt.
8:8.  Consider but
his calling and degree therein, and it makes his humility more
conspicuous.  A swordsman, yea, a
commander! such use to speak big and high. 
Power is seldom such a friend to humility. Surely he was a man of a rare
humble spirit, that he, whose mouth was used so much to words of command over
his sol­diers, could so demit[2]
and humble himself in his ad­dress to Christ; yet his faith outshines his
humility in its greatest strength.  Not,
I have not found such humility, but ‘such faith’ in all Israel.  As if Christ had said, ‘There is not one
believer in all Israel but I know him, and how rich he is in faith also; but I
have not found so much of this heavenly treasure in any one hand as in this
centurion’s.’  Indeed the Christian's
chief riches is in faith’s hand.  ‘Hath
not God chosen the poor of this world rich in faith?’ James 2:5.
Why rich in faith, rather than rich in patience, rich in love, or any other
grace?  O great reason for it, when the
creature comes to lay claim to pardon of sin, the favour of God, and heaven
itself.  It is not love, pa­tience,
&c., but faith alone that lays down the price of all these.  Not ‘Lord, pardon, save me, here is my love
and patience for it;’ but ‘here is Christ, and the price of his blood, which
faith presents thee for the full purchase of them all.’  This leads to a third particular, and indeed
the chief of all.

           Third
Particular.  The high office
that faith is set in above other graces, in the business of our jus­tification
before God—‘being justified by faith, we have peace with God,’ Rom. 5:1.  Not justified by love, repentance, patience,
or any other grace beside faith. O how harsh doth it sound in a Christian ear,
justifying patience, justifying repentance! 
And if they were concerned with the act of justification, as faith is,
the name would as well become them as it doth faith itself.  But we find this appropriated to faith, and
the rest hedged out from having to do in the act of justifi­cation, though
included and supposed in the person who is justified.  It is faith that justifies without works.  This is Paul’s task to prove, Rom. 3.  But this faith which justifies is not dead
or idle, but a lively working faith, which seems to be James’ design in the
second chapter of his epistle.  As God
did single Christ out from all others to be the only mediator betwixt him and
man, and his righteousness to be the meritorious cause of our justification; so
he hath singled faith out from all the other graces, to be the instrument or
means for appropriating this righ­teousness of Christ to ourselves.  Therefore, as this righteousness is called
‘the righteousness of God,’ and opposed to our ‘own righteousness,’ though
wrought by God in us, Rom.
10:3, because it is wrought by Christ for us, but not
inherent in us, as the other is; so also it is called ‘the righteousness of
faith,’ Rom.
4:11, 13—not the righteousness of repentance, love,
or any other grace.  Now, wherefore is
it called ‘the righteousness of faith,’ and not of love, repentance,
&c.?  Surely, not that faith itself
is our righteousness. Then we should be justified by works, while we are
justified by faith, contrary to the apostle, who oppos­eth faith and works, Rom. 4.

           In a word, then, we should be
justified by a righ­teousness of our own, for faith is a grace inherent in us,
and as much our own work as any grace besides is. But this is contrary to the
same apostle’s doctrine, Php.
3:9, where our own righteousness, and the righteousness
which is by faith, are declared to be inconsistent.  It can therefore be called ‘the righteousness of faith’ for this
reason and no other—because faith is the only grace whose office it is to lay
hold on Christ, and so to appropriate his righteousness for the justification
of our souls.  Christ and faith are
relatives which must not be severed. 
Christ, he is the treasure, and faith the hand which receives it.  Christ’s righteousness is the robe, faith
the hand that puts it on; so that it is Christ who is the treasure.  By his blood he dischargeth our debt, and
not by faith; whose office is only to receive Christ, whereby he becomes
ours.  It is Christ’s righteousness that
is the robe which covers our nakedness, and makes us beau­tiful in God’s eye;
only, faith hath the honour to put the robe on the soul, and it is no small
honour that is therein put upon it above other graces.  As God graced Moses exceedingly above the
rest of his brethren the Israelites, when he was called up the mount to receive
the law from God’s mouth, while they had their bounds set them—to stand waiting
at the bot­tom of the hill till he brought it down to them; so doth God highly
honour faith, to call this up as the grace by whose hand he will convey this
glorious privilege of justification over to us.

           Question.  But why is faith rather than any other grace
else employed in this act?

           Answer First.  Because there is no grace hath so proper a
fitness for this office as faith.  Why
hath God appointed the eye to see and not the ear? why the hand to take our
food rather than the foot?  It is easily
answered, because these members have a par­ticular fitness for these functions
and not the other. Thus faith hath a fitness for this work peculiar to
itself.  We are justified not by giving
anything to God of what we do, but by receiving from God what Christ hath done
for us.  Now faith is the only receiving
grace, and therefore only fit for this office.

           Answer Second.  There is no grace that God could trust his
honour so safely with in this business of justification as with faith.  The great design God hath in justifying a
poor sinner is to magnify his free mercy in the eye of his creature.  This is written in such fair characters in
the word, that he who runs {to it} may read it.  God was resolved that his free mercy should go away with all the
honour, and the creature should be quite cut out from any pretensions to part­nership
with him therein.  Now there is no way
like to this of being justified by faith, for the securing and safe-guarding of
the glory of God's free grace, Rom. 3:25, 26.  When the apostle hath in some verses to­gether
discoursed of the free justification of a sinner before God, he goes on to show
how this cuts the very comb, yea throat, of all self-exalting thoughts, ver. 27:
‘Where is boasting then?  It is
excluded.  By what law? of works?  Nay: but by the law of faith.’  Princes, of all wrongs, most disdain and
abhor to see their royal bed defiled. 
So jealous they have been of this, that, for the prevention of all
suspicion of such a foul fact, it hath been of old the custom of the greatest
monarchs, that those who were their favourites, and admitted into nearest
attendance upon their own per­sons and queens, should be eunuchs—such whose
very disability of nature might remove all suspicion of any such attempt by
them.  Truly, God is more jeal­ous of
having the glory of his name ravished by the pride and self-glorying of the
creature, than ever any prince was of having his queen deflowered.  And therefore to secure it from any such
horrid abuse, he hath chosen faith—this eunuch grace, as I may so call it—to
stand so nigh him, and be employed by him in this high act of grace, whose very
nature, being a self-emptying grace, renders it incapable of entering into any
such design against the glory of God’s grace. Faith hath two hands; with one it
pulls off its own righ­teousness and throws it away, as David did Saul’s ar­mour;
with the other it puts on Christ’s righteousness over the soul's shame, as that
in which it dares alone see God or be seen of him.  ‘This makes it impossible,’ saith learned and holy Master Ball,
‘how to conceive that faith and works should be conjoined as concauses in
justification; seeing the one—that is faith—attributes all to the free grace of
God; the other—that is works—challenge to themselves.  The one, that is faith, will aspire no higher but to be the
instrumental cause of free remission; the other can sit no lower, but to be the
matter of justification, if any cause at all. 
For, if works be accounted to us in the room or place of exact obedience
in free justification, do they not supply the place? are they not advanced to
the dignity of works complete and perfect in jus­tification from justice?’  Treatise of Covenant of Grace, p. 70.

           Fourth
Particular.  The mighty
influence, yea universal, that faith hath upon all her sister-graces, speaks
her the chief of them all.  What
makes the sun so glorious a creature but because it is a com­mon good, and
serves all the lower world with light and influence?  Faith is a grace whose ministry God useth as much for the good of
the spiritual world in the saints—called in Scripture the 6"4<­
6JÂF4H, ‘the new creation,’ Gal. 6:15—as
he doth the sun for the corporeal. 
Nothing is hid from the heat of the sun, Ps. 19:6, and there
is no grace that faith’s influence reach­eth not unto.

 

[The influence of
faith reacheth

unto all other
graces.]

 

           First.  Faith finds all the graces with work.  As the rich tradesman gives out his wool,
some to this man, and some to that, who all spin and work of the stock he gives
them out, so that, when he ceaseth to trade, they must also, because they have
no stock but what he affords them,—thus faith gives out to every grace what
they act upon.  If faith trades not,
neither can they.

           To instance in one or two graces for
all the rest. Repentance, this is a sweet grace, but set on work by
faith.  Nineveh’s repentance is
attributed unto their faith: ‘The people of Nineveh believed God, and pro­claimed
a fast, and put on sackcloth,’ Jonah 3:5. 
It is very like indeed that their repentance was no more than legal, but
it was as good as their faith was.  If
their faith had been better, so would their repentance also.  All is whist and quiet in an unbelieving
soul; no news of repentance, nor noise of any complaint made against sin till
faith begins to stir.  When faith presents
the threatening, and binds the truth and terror of it to the conscience, then
the sinner hath something to work upon. 
As light accentuates colours and brings the eye acquainted with its
object, whereupon it falls to work, so doth faith actuate sin in the
conscience; now musing thoughts will soon arise, and, like clouds, thicken
apace into a storm, till they bespread the soul with a universal blackness of
horror and trembling for sin; but then also the creature is at a loss, and can
go no further in the business of repentance, while faith sends in more work
from the promise by presenting a pardon therein to the returning soul; which no
sooner is heard and believed by the creature, but the work of repentance goes
on apace.  Now the cloud of horror and
terror, which the fear of wrath, from con­sideration of the threatening, had
gathered in the conscience, dissolves into a soft rain of evangelical sorrow,
at the report which faith makes from the promise.

           Love is another heavenly
grace; but faith gathers the fuel that makes this fire.  Speak, Christian, whose soul now flames with
love to God, was it always thus? No! sure there was a time, I dare say for
thee, when thy heart was cold—not a spark of this fire to be found on the altar
of thy heart.  How is this then,
Christian, that now thy soul loves God, whom before thou didst scorn and
hate?  Surely thou hast heard some good
news from heaven, that hath changed thy thoughts of God, and turned the stream
of thy love, which ran another way, into this happy channel.  And who can be the messenger besides faith
that brings any good news from heaven to the soul?  It is faith that proclaims the promise; opens Christ's
excellencies; pours out his name, for which the virgins love him.  When faith hath drawn a character of Christ
out of the word, and presented him in his love and love­liness to the soul, now
the creature is sweetly invei­gled in his affections to him; now the Christian
hath a copious theme to enlarge upon in his thoughts, whereby to endear Christ
more and more unto him —‘Unto him that believes, he is precious;’ and the more
faith, the ‘more precious,’ I Peter 1:7.  If we should sit in the same room by the
dearest friend we had in all the world, and our eyes were held from seeing him,
we would take no more notice of him, and give no more respect to him, than to a
mere stranger.  But if one should come
and whisper {to} us in the ear, and tell us this is such a dear friend of
yours, that once laid down his life to save yours, that hath made you heir to
all the goodly estate that he hath, will you not show your respect to him?  O how our hearts would work in our breasts,
and make haste to come forth in some passionate expression of our dear
affection to him!  Yea, how heartily
ashamed would we be for our uncivil and unbecoming behav­iour towards him,
though occasioned by our ignor­ance of him. 
Truly thus it is here.  So long
as faith’s eye hath a mist before it, or is unactive and as it were asleep in
the dull habit, the Christian may sit very nigh Christ in an ordinance, in a
providence, and be very little affected with him, and drawn out in loves to
him.  But when faith is awake to see him
as he pass­eth by in his love and loveliness, and active to make report to the
soul of the sweet excellencies it sees in Christ, as also of his dear bleeding
love to his soul, the Christian's love now cannot choose but spring and leap in
his bosom at the voice of faith, as the babe did in Elizabeth's womb at the
salutation of her cousin Mary.

           Second.  As faith sets the other graces on work by
actuating their objects, about which they are con­versant, so it helps them
all to work, by fetching strength from Christ to act and reinforce them.  Faith is not only the instrument to receive
the righteousness of Christ for our justification, but it is also the great
instrument to receive grace from Christ for our sanctification.  ‘Of his fulness...we receive grace for
grace,’ John
1:16.  But how do we
receive it?  Even by faith.  Faith unites the soul to Christ; and as by a
pipe laid close to the mouth of a fountain water is carried to our houses for
the supply of the whole family, so by faith is derived to the soul supply in
abundance for the particular offices of all the several graces.  He that believes, ‘out of his belly shall
flow rivers of living water,’ John 7:38. 
That is, he that hath faith, and is careful to live in the exercise of
it, shall have a flow and an increase of all other graces, called here ‘living
waters.’  Hence it is that the saints,
when they would advance to a high pitch in other graces, pray for the increase
of their faith.  Our Saviour, Luke 17:3, 4,
sets  his apostles a very hard lesson
when he would wind up their love to such a high pitch as to forgive their
offending brother ‘seven times’ in a day. 
Now mark, ver.
5—‘The apostles,’ apprehending the difficulty of the duty,
‘said unto the Lord, Increase our faith.’ 
But why did they rather not say, ‘Increase our love,’ see­ing that was
the grace they were to exercise in forgiving their brother?  Surely it was not because love hath its
increase from faith.  If they could get
more faith on Christ, they might be sure they should have more love to their
brother also.  The more strongly they
could believe on Christ for the pardon of their own sins, not ‘seven,’ but ‘seventy
times’ in a day committed against God, the more easy it would be to forgive
their brother offending themselves seven times a day. This interpretation, our
Saviour’s reply to their pray­er for faith favours, ver. 6
—‘And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say
unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in
the sea; and it should obey you.’  Where
Christ shows the efficacy of justifying faith by the power of a faith of
miracles.  As if he had said, ‘You have
hit on the right way to get a for­giving spirit; it is faith indeed that would
enable you to conquer the unmercifulness of your hearts. Though it were as
deeply rooted in you as this sycamore-tree is in the ground, yet by faith you should
be able to pluck it up.’  When we would
have the whole tree fruitful, we think we do enough to water the root, knowing
what the root sucks from the earth it will soon disperse into the branches.  Thus that sap and fatness, faith, which is
the radical grace, draws from Christ, will be quickly diffused through the
branches of the other graces, and tasted in the pleasantness of their fruit.

           Third.  Faith defends the Christian in the exer­cise
of all his graces.  ‘By faith we
stand,’ Rom.
11:20. As a soldier under the protection of his shield stands
his ground and does his duty, notwithstanding all the shot that are made
against him to drive him back. When faith fails, then every grace is put to the
run and rout.  Abraham’s simplicity and
sincerity, how was it put to disorder when he dissembled with Abim­elech
concerning his wife? and why, but because his faith failed him.  Job's patience received a wound when his
hand grew weary, and his shield of faith, which should have covered him, hung
down.  Indeed, no grace is safe if from
under the wing of faith. There­fore, to secure Peter from falling from all
grace, Christ tells him, ‘I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not,’ Luke 22:32.  This was the reserve that Christ took care
should be kept to recover his other graces when foiled by the enemy, and to
bring him off that encounter wherein he was so badly bruised and broken. It is
said that Christ could not do many mighty things in his own country ‘because of
their unbelief,’ Matt.
13:58.  Neither can Satan
do any great hurt to the Christian so long as faith is upon the place.  It is true he aims to fight faith above all,
as that which keeps him from coming at the rest, but he is not able long to
stand before it.  Let a saint be never
so humble, pa­tient, devout, alas! 
Satan will easily pick some hole or other in these graces, and break in
upon him when he stands in the best array, if faith be not in the field to
cover these.  This is the grace that
makes him face about and take him to his heels, I Peter 5:9.

           Fourth.  Faith alone procures acceptance with God
for all the other graces and their works. 
‘By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice,’ Heb. 11:4.  When a Christian hath wrought hardest in a
day, and hath spun the finest, evenest, thread of obedience at the wheel of
duty, he is afraid to carry home his work at night with an expectation of any
ac­ceptance at God’s hands for his work’s sake.  No, it is faith he makes use of to present it through Christ to
God for acceptance.  We are said, I Peter 2:5,
‘To offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ;’ That is,
by faith in Christ, for without faith Christ makes none of our sacrifices
acceptable.  God takes nothing kindly
but what the hand of faith pre­sents. 
And so prevalent is faith with God, that he will take light gold—broken
services—at her hand; which, were they to come alone, would be rejected with in­dignation.  As a favourite that hath the ear of his
prince, finds it easy to get his poor kindred entertained at court also (so
Joseph brought his brethren into Pharaoh's presence with great demonstrations
of favour shown them by him for his sake; and Esther wound Mordecai into a high
preferment in Ahasu­erus’ court, who upon his own credit could get no far­ther
than to sit at the gate), thus faith brings those works and duties into God's
presence, which else were sure to be shut out, and, pleading the righteousness
of Christ, procures them to be received into such high favour with God, that
they become his delight, Prov.
15:8, and as a pleasant perfume in his nostrils, Mal. 3:4.

           Fifth.  Faith brings in succours when other
graces fail.  Two ways the
Christian’s graces may fail—in their activity, or in their evidence.

           1. In their activity, it is
low water sometimes with the Christian. 
He cannot act so freely and vigorously then as at another time when the
tide runs high, through divine assistances that flow in amain upon him.  Those temptations which he could at one time
snap asunder as easily as Samson did his cords of flax, at another time he is
sadly hampered with that he cannot shake them off.  Those duties which he performs with delight and joy, when his
grace is in a healthful plight; at another time he pants and blows at, as much
as a sick man doth to go up a hill—so heavily doth he find them come off.  Were not the Christian, think you, ill now
on it, if he had no com­ings in but from his own shop of duty?  Here now is the excellency of faith; it
succours the Christian in this his bankrupt condition.  As Joseph got over his brethren to him, and
nourished them out of his gran­aries all the time of famine, so doth faith the
Christian in his penury of grace and duty. 
And this it doth in two ways.

           (1.) By laying claim to the
fulness of that grace which is in Christ as its own.  Why art thou dejected, O my soul, saith the
Christian’s faith, for thy weak grace? 
There is enough in Christ, all fulness dwells in him, it pleased the
Father it should be so, and that to pleasure thee in thy wants and
weaknesses.  It is a ministerial
fulness; as the clouds carry rain not for themselves but the earth, so doth
Christ his fulness of grace for thee. 
‘He is made of God unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and
sanctification, and redemption,’ I Cor. 1:30.  When the rags of the Christian’s own
righteousness discourage and shame him, faith hath a robe to put on that covers
all this unco meliness. ‘Christ is my righteousness,’ saith faith, and ‘in Him’
we are ‘complete,’ Col.
2:10.  Faith hath two
hands, a working hand a receiving hand; and the receiving hand relieves the
working hand, or else there would be a poor house kept in the Christian’s
bosom.  We find Paul himself but in a
starving condition, for all the comfort his own graces could with their
earnings afford him.  He is a wretched
man in his own account, if these be all he hath to live upon, Rom. 7:24;
yet even then, when he sees nothing in his own cup­board, his faith puts forth
his receiving hand to Christ, and he is presently set at a rich feast, for
which you find him giving thanks, ver. 25, ‘I thank God
through Jesus Christ our Lord.’

           (2.) 
Faith succours the Christian in the weakness and inactivity of his
graces, by applying the promises for the saints’ perseverance in grace.  It brings great comfort to a sick man, though
very weak at present, to hear his physician tell him, that though he is low and
feeble, yet there is no fear he will die. The present weakness of grace is sad,
but the fear of falling quite away is far sadder.  Now faith, and only faith, can be the messenger to bring the good
news to the soul, that it shall persevere. 
Sense and reason are quite posed and dunced here.  It seems impossible to them, that such a
bruised reed should bear up against all the counterblasts of hell, because they
consider only what grace itself can do, and finding it so over­matched by the
power and policy of Satan, think it but rational to give the victory  to the stronger side. But faith, when it
seeth symptoms of death in the saint’s grace, finds life in the promise, and
comforts the soul with this—that the faithful God will not suf­fer his grace to
see corruption.  He hath undertaken the
physicking of his saints: ‘Every branch in me that beareth fruit, he purgeth
it, that it may bring forth more fruit’ John 15:2.  When Hazael came to inquire of Elisha for
his sick master, whether he should live or die; the prophet sent him with this
answer back unto the king his master: ‘Thou mayest certainly recover: howbeit
the Lord hath shewed me that he shall surely die,’ II Kings 8:10—that
is, he might certainly recover for all his disease, but he should die by the
traitorous bloody hand of Hazael his servant. 
Give me leave only to allude to this. 
When the Christian consults with his faith, and inquires of it, whether
his weak grace will fail or hold out, die or live, faith's answer is, ‘Thy weak
grace may certainly die and fall away, but the Lord hath showed me it shall
live and persevere’ —that is, in regard of its own weakness and the muta­bility
of man’s nature, the Christian’s grace might certainly die and come to nothing;
but God hath shown faith in the promise that it shall certainly live and
recover out of its lowest weakness. 
What David said in regard of his house, that every Christian may say in
regard of his grace.  ‘Though his grace
be not so with God (so strong, so unchangeable in itself), yet he hath made
with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, and sure: for this is
all my salvation, and all my desire,’ II Sam. 23:5.  This salt of the covenant is it shall keep,
saith faith, thy weak grace from corrup­tion. 
‘Why art thou cast down,’ saith the psalmist, ‘O my soul? hope thou in
God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my
God,’ Ps.
42:11.  The health of
David's countenance was not in his countenance, but in his God, and this makes
his faith silence his fears, and so peremptorily resolve upon it, that there is
a time coming—how near soever he now lies to the grave’s mouth—when he shall
yet praise him.  ‘The health and life of
thy grace lie both of them, not in thy grace,’ saith faith, ‘but in God, who is
thy God, therefore I shall yet live and praise him.’  I do not wonder that the weak Christian is mel­ancholy and sad
when he sees his sickly face in any other glass but this.

           2. In the evidence of them the
Christian’s grace may fail.  It may
disappear, as stars do in a cloudy night. 
How oft do we hear the Christian say in an hour of desertion and
temptation, ‘I know not whet her I love God or no in sincerity; I dare not say
I have any true godly sorrow for sin; indeed I have thought formerly these
graces had a being in me, but now I am at a loss what to think, yea, sometimes
I am ready to fear the worst.’  Now in
this dark benighted state, faith undergirds the soul's ship, and hath two anchors
it casts forth, whereby the soul is stayed from being driven upon the devouring
quicksands of despair and horror.

           (1.) Faith makes a discovery of
the rich mercy in Christ to poor sinners, and calls the soul to look up to it,
when it hath lost the sight of his own grace.  It is no small comfort to a man, that hath lost his acquaintance
for a debt paid, when he remembers that the man he deals with is a merciful
good man, though his discharge be not presently to be found.  That God whom thou hast to do with is very
gracious; what thou hast lost he is ready to restore—the evidence of thy grace
I mean.  David begged this and obtained
it, see
Ps. 51. 
‘Yea,’ saith faith, ‘if it were true what thou fear­est, that thy grace
was never true, there is mercy enough in God’s heart to pardon all thy former
hy­pocrisy, if now thou comest in the sincerity of thy heart.’  And so, faith persuades the soul by an act
of adventure to cast itself upon God in Christ.  ‘Wilt thou not,’ saith faith, ‘expect to find as much mercy at
God's hands as thou canst look for at a man's?’  It is not beyond the line of created mercy to forgive many
unkindnesses, much falseness and unfaithfulness, upon a humble sincere
acknowledgment of the same.  The world
is not so bad, but it abounds with parents that can do thus much for their
children, and masters for their servants; and is that hard for God to do which
is so easy in his creature?  Thus faith
vindi­cates God's name.  And so long as
we have not lost the sight of God's merciful heart, our head will be kept above
water, though we want the evidence of our own grace.

           (2.) Faith makes a discovery of
the rich mercy in Christ to poor sinners, and calls the soul to look up to it,
when it hath lost the sight of his own grace.  And it is some comfort, though a man hath no bread in his
cupboard, to hear there is some to be had in the market.  ‘O,’ saith the complaining Christian, ‘there
were some hope, if I could find but those relentings and meltings of soul which
others have in their bos­oms for sin; then I could run under the shadow of that
promise and take comfort, ‘Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be
comforted,’ Matt.
5:4.  But alas! my
heart is as hard as the flint.’  ‘Well,’
saith faith, ‘for thy comfort know, there are not only prom­ises to the
mourning soul and broken heart, but there are promises that God will break the
heart, and give a spirit of mourning.’ 
So for other graces; not only promises to those that fear God, but to
‘put the fear of God into our hearts;’ not only promises to those that walk in
his statutes and keep his judgments, but also to ‘put his spirit within us, and
cause us to walk in his statutes,’ Eze. 36.27.  Why then, O my soul, dost thou sit there
bemoaning thyself fruitlessly for what thou sayest thou hast not, when thou
knowest where thou mayest have it for going? 
As Jacob said to his sons, ‘Why do ye look one upon another?  Behold, I have heard that there is corn in
Egypt: get you down thither, and buy for us from thence; that we may live, and
not die,’ Gen.
42:1, 2. 
Thus faith rouseth the Christian out of his amazed thoughts upon which
his troubled spirit dwells like one destitute of counsel, not knowing what to
do; and turns his bootless com­plaints, wherein he must necessarily pine and
starve, into fervent prayer for that grace he wants.  ‘There is bread in the promise,’ saith faith.  Sit not here languishing in a sluggish
despondency, but get you down upon your knees, and humbly, but valiantly,
besiege the throne of grace for grace in this time of need. And certainly, the
Christian may sooner get a new evidence for his grace, by pleading the promise,
and plying the throne of grace, than by yielding so far to his unbelieving
thoughts as to sit down and melt away his strength and time in the bitterness
of his spirit —which Satan dearly likes—without using the means, which he will
never do to any purpose, till faith brings thus much encouragement from the
promise, that what he wants is there to be had freely and fully.

           Sixth.  As faith succours the Christian when his
other graces fail him most, so it brings in his comfort when they most
abound.  Faith is to the Christian
as Nehemiah was to Artaxerxes, Neh. 2:1. 
Of all the graces this is the Christian’s cup-bearer.  The Christian takes the wine of joy out of
faith’s hand, rather than any other grace. 
‘Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing,’ Rom. 15:13.  It is observable, I Peter 1,
to see how the apostle therefore doth, as it were, cross his hands, as once
Jacob did in blessing his son Joseph’s children, and gives the pre-eminence to
faith, attributing the Christian's joy to his faith, rather than to his love ver. 8:
‘Whom having not seen, ye love; in whom, though now ye see him not, yet
believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory.’  Mark, ‘believing, ye rejoice.’  Here is the door, the Christian’s chief joy,
yea, all his fiduciary joy comes in at. 
It is Christ that we are in this respect allowed only to rejoice in, ‘For
we are the circumcision, which worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ
Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh,’ Php. 3:3,—where
Christ is made the sole subject of our rejoicing fiduciarily, in opposition to
all else, even our graces themselves, which become flesh when thus re­joiced
and glorified in.  Christ’s blood is the
wine that only glads the heart of God by way of satisfaction to his justice,
and therefore only that can bring true gladness into the heart of man.  When Christ prom­iseth the Comforter, he
tells his disciples from what vessel he should draw the wine of joy that he was
to give them: ‘He shall take of mine, and shall shew it unto you,’ John 16:15.  No grape of our own vine is pressed into
this sweet cup.  As if Christ had said,
When he comes to comfort you with the pardon of your sins, ‘he shall take of
mine,’ not anything of yours—my blood by which I purchased your peace with God,
not your own tears of repentance by which you have mourned for your sins.  All the blessed priv­ileges which believers
are instated into, they are the fruits of Christ’s purchase, not of our
earnings.  Now, the Christian's joy
flowing in from Christ, and not anything that he, poor creature, doth or hath;
hence it comes to pass, that faith, above all the graces, brings in the
Christian’s joy and comfort, because this is the grace that improves Christ and
what is Christ's for the soul’s advantage. 
As of grace, so of comfort. 
Faith is the good spy, that makes discovery of the excellences in
Christ, and then makes report of all to the soul it sees in him and knows of
him.  It is faith that broaches the
promises, turns the cock and sets them a running into the soul.  It doth not only show the soul how excellent
Christ is, and what dainties are in the promises; but it applies Christ to the
soul, and carves out the sweet viands that are dished forth in the
promises.  Yea, it puts them into the
very mouth of the soul; it masticates and grinds the promise so, that the
Christian is filled with its strength and sweet­ness.  Till faith comes and brings the news of the soul's welcome, O how
maidenly and uncomfortably do poor creatures sit at the table of the
promise!  Like Hannah, ‘they weep and
eat not.’  No, alas! they dare not be so
bold.  But, when faith comes, then the
soul falls to, and makes a satisfying meal indeed.  No dish on the table but faith will taste of.  Faith knows God sets them not on to go off
untouched.  It is though an humble yet a
bold grace, because it knows it cannot be so bold with God in his own way as it
is welcome.

 

 

 

USE
OR APPLICATION.

 

[Unbelief hath the
same pre-eminence

among sins, as faith
‘above all’ graces.]

 

           Use First.  Is faith the chief of graces?  This may help us to conceive of the horrible
nature of unbelief. This surely will deserve as high a place among sins as
faith hath among the graces. 
Unbelief!  It is the Beel­zebub,
the prince of sins.  As faith is the
radical grace, so is unbelief a radical sin, a sinning sin.  As of all sinners, those are most infamous
who are ringleaders and make others sin—which is the brand that God hath set
upon Jeroboam's name, ‘Jeroboam, who did sin, and who made Israel to sin,’ I Kings 14:16—so
among sins, they are most horrid that are most pro­ductive of other sins.  Such a one is unbelief above any other.  It is a ring-leading sin, a sin-making sin.
The first poisonous breath which Eve sucked in from the tempter was sent in the
words, ‘Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?’ Gen. 3:1.  As if he had said, ‘Consider well on the
matter. Do you believe God meant so? 
Can you think so ill of God as to believe he would keep the best fruit
of the whole garden from you?’  This was
the traitor’s gate, at which all other sins entered into her heart; and it continues
of the same use to Satan to this day, for the hurrying souls into other
sins—called therefore, ‘an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from the living
God,’ Heb.
3:12.  The devil sets
up this sin of un­belief as a blind betwixt the sinner and God, that the shot
which come from the threatening, and are level­led at the sinner’s breast, may
not may not be dre aded and feared by him. 
And then the wretch can be as bold with his lust, as the pioneer is at
his work, when once he hath got his basket of earth between him and the
enemies’ bullets.  Nay, this unbelief
doth not only choke the bullets of wrath which are sent out of the law's fiery
mouth, but it damps the motions of grace which come from the gospel.  All the offers of love which God makes to an
unbelieving heart, they fall like seed into dead earth, or, like sparks into a
river, they are out as soon as they fall into it.

           ‘The word’—it is said—‘did not profit
them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it,’ Heb. 4:2.
The strength of this whole body of sin lies in this lock of unbelief.  There is no mastering of a sinner while
unbelief is in power.  This will carry
all arguments away, whether they be from law or gospel, that are pressed upon
him, as easily as Samson did the doors, posts, with bar and all, from the city
of Gaza, Judges
16:2.  It is a sin
that doth keep the field—one of the last of all the others; that which the
sinner is last con­vinced of, and the saint ordinarily last conqueror of. It is
one of the chief strengths and fastnesses unto which the devil retreats when
other sins are routed. O how oft do we hear a poor sinner confess and bewail
other sins he hath lived in formerly, with brinish tears, but will not hearken
yet to the offer of mercy in Christ. 
Bid him believe on Christ, and he shall be saved—which was the doctrine
Paul and Silas preach­ed to the trembling jailor, Acts 16:31—alas!
he dares not, he will not; you can hardly persuade him it is his duty to do
so.  The devil hath now betaken himself
to this city of gates and bars, where he stands upon his guard; and, the more
strongly to fortify himself in it, he hath the most specious pretenses for it
of any other sin.  It is a sin that he
makes the humbled soul commit out of fear of sinning, and so stabs the good
name of God, for fear of dishonouring him by a saucy presumptuous faith.  Indeed it is a sin by which Satan intends to
put the greatest scorn upon God, and unfold all his cankered malice against him
at once.  It is by faith that the saints
‘have obtained a good report.’  Yea, it
is by the saints' faith that God hath a good report in the world.  And, by unbelief, the devil doth his worst
to raise an evil report of God in the world; as if he were not what his own
promise and his saints’ faith witness him to be.  In a word, it is a sin that hell gapes for of all the others.

           There are two sins that claim a
pre-eminence in hell—hypocrisy and unbelief; and therefore other sin­ners are
threatened to ‘have their portion with the hypocrites,’ Matt. 24:51,
and ‘with unbelievers,’ Luke
12:46; as if those infernal mansions were taken up principally
for these, and all others were but inferior prisoners.  But of the two unbelief is the greater, and
that which may, with an emphasis, be called above this or any other, ‘the
damning sin.’  ‘He that believeth not is
condemned already,’ John
3:18.  He hath his
mittimus already to jail; yea, he is in it already in a sense—he hath the brand
of a damned person on him.  The Jews are
said, Rom.
11.32, to be shut up ‘in unbelief.’  A surer prison the devil cannot keep a sinner in.  Faith shuts the soul up in the promise of
life and happiness, as God shut Noah into the ark.  It is said, ‘the Lord shut him in,’ Gen. 7:16.  Thus faith shuts the soul up in Christ, and
the ark of his covenant, from all fear of danger from heaven or hell; and [thus
too,] on the contrary, unbelief shuts a soul up in guilt and wrath, that there
is no more possibility for an unbeliever of escaping damnation, than for one to
escape burning that is shut up in a fiery oven.  No help can come to the sinner so long as this bolt of un­belief
is on the door of his heart.  As our
salvation is attributed to faith, rather than to other graces —though none [be]
wanting in a saved person—so sinners’ damnation and ruin is attributed to their
unbelief, though the other sins [are] found with it in the person damned.  The Spirit of God passeth over the Jews’
hypocrisy, murmuring, rebellion, and lays their destruction at the door of this
one sin of unbelief.  ‘They could not
enter in because of unbelief,’ Heb. 3:19.

           O sinners!—you who live under the
gospel I mean—if you perish, know beforehand what is your undoing—it is your
unbelief that does it.  If a malefactor
that is condemned to die be offered his life by the judge upon reading a psalm
of mercy, and he reads not, we may say his not reading hangs him. The promise
of the gospel is this psalm of mercy, which God offers in his son to law‑condemned
sinners.  Be­lieving is reading this
psalm of mercy.  If thou believ­est not
and are damned, thou goest to hell rather for thy final unbelief than any of
thy other sins, for which a discharge is offered thee upon thy receiving Christ
and believing on him.  Let this cause us
all to rise up against this sin, as the Philistines did against Samson, whom
they called the destroyer of their country,’ Judges 16:24.  This is the destroyer of your souls, and
that is worse; yea, it destroys them with a bloodier hand than other sins do
that are not aggravated with this.  We
find two general heads of indictments upon which the whole world of sinners
shall be condemned at the great day, II Thes. 1:8.  There Christ’s coming to judgment is
expressed; and those miserable undone creatures that shall fall under his
condemning sentence, are comprised in these two [classes]—such as ‘know not
God,’ and such as ‘obey not the gospel of Jesus Christ.’  The heathens' negative unbelief of the
gospel shall not be charged upon them, because they never had it preached to
them.  No; they shall be sent to hell
for ‘not knowing God,’ and so shall escape with a lighter damnation by far,
than Jews or Christian Gentiles to whom the gospel hath been preached —though
to some of these with a stronger and longer continued beam of light than [has
been the lot of] others.  The dismal
charge which shall be brought against these will be, that they have not obeyed
the gospel of our Lord Jesus; that is, not believed on Christ—called therefore
the ‘obedience of faith,’ Rom.
16.26.  And certainly,
we cannot but think that there shall be a torment proper to these gospel
refusers, which those that never had the offer of grace shall not feel, in
hell.  And among those that obey not the
gospel the greatest vengeance waits for them that have had the longest and most
passionate treaty of mercy allowed them. 
These are they that put God to the greatest expense of mercy, and
therefore they must necessarily expect the greatest proportion of wrath and
vengeance to be measured to them; yea, their unbelief puts Christ, and the
grace of God in him, to the greatest shame and scorn that is possible for
creatures to do; and it is but righteous that God should therefore put their
unbelief and themselves with it to the greatest shame before men and angels, of
any other sinners.

 

[Reasons why we
should be serious

in the trial of our faith.]

 

           Use Second.  Is faith the chief of graces?  Let this make us the more curious and
careful that we be not cheated in our faith.  There are some things of so inconsiderable worth, that they will
not pay us for the pains and care we take about them; and there to be choice
and scrupulous is folly; to be negligent and incurious is wisdom.  But there are other things of such worth and
weighty consequence, that none but he that means to call his wisdom in question
can be willing to be mistaken and cozened in them.  Who that is wise would pay as for a precious stone, and have a
pebble, or at best a Bristol-stone, put upon him for his money?  Who, when his life is at stake, and knows no
way to save it but by getting some one rich drug which is very scarce, but to
be had, would not be very careful to have the right?  O my dear friends, doth it not infinitely more concern you to be
careful in your merchandise for this pearl of precious faith?  Can you be willing to take the devil's false
sophisticated ware off his hand? a mock faith which he would cheat you with,
rather than obtain the ‘faith unfeigned,’ which God hath to give unto his
children —called therefore the 'faith of God’s elect?’  Will the devil’s drugs, that are sure to
kill thee, serve thy turn, when thou art offered by God himself a rich drug
that will cure thee?  When thou goest to
buy a garment, thou askest for the best piece of stuff of cloth in the
shop.  In the market thou wouldst have
the best meat for thy belly; when with the lawyer the best counsel for thy
estate; and of the physician the best directions for thy health.  Art thou for the best in all but for thy
soul?  Wouldst thou not have a faith of
the best kind also?  If a man receives
false money, who doth he wrong but himself? and if thou beest gulled with a
false faith, the loss is thy own, and that no small one. Thyself will think so
when thou comest to the bar, and God shall bid thee either pay the debt thou
owest him, or go to rot and roar in hell’s prison.  Then how wilt thou be confounded!  When thou producest thy faith and hopest to save thyself with
this—that thou believest on the Lord Jesus—but shalt have thy confi­dence
rejected, and God tell thee to thy teeth it is not faith but a lie in thy right
hand that thou hast got, and therefore he will not accept the payment, though
it be Christ himself that offerest to lay down; nay, that he will give thee up
into the tormentor’s hand, and that not only for believing, but also for
counterfeiting the King of heaven’s coin, and setting his name on thy false
money; which thou dost by pretending to faith, when it is a false one thou hast
in thy bosom.  This were enough to
awaken your care in the trial of your faith, but to give some further weight to
the exhorta­tion we shall cast in these three conditions.

           1. Reason.  Consider that as thy faith is, so are all
thy other graces.  As a man's
marriage is so are all his children, legitimate, or illegitimate.  Thus, as our marriage is to Christ, so all
our graces are.  Now, it is faith by
which we are married to Christ.  ‘I have
es­poused you to one husband,’ saith Paul to the Corinthians, II Cor. 11:2.  How, but by their faith?  It is faith whereby the soul gives its
consent to take Christ for her husband. 
Now, if our faith be false, then our mar­riage to Christ is feigned; and
if that be feigned, then all our pretended graces are base-born.  How goodly soever an outside they have—as a
bastard may have a fair face—they are all illegitimate; our humility, patience,
temperance—all bastards.  And, you know,
‘a bastard was not to enter into the congregation,’ Deut. 23:2.  No more shall any bastard grace enter into
the congregation of the just in heaven. 
He that hath children of his own will not make another’s bastard his
heir.  God hath children of his own to
inherit heaven’s glory, in whose hearts he hath by his own Spirit begotten
those heavenly graces which do truly resemble his own holy nature; surely he
will never settle it upon strangers, counterfeit believers, that are the devil's
brats and by-blows.

           2. Reason.  Consider the excellency of true faith
makes false faith so much the more odious. 
Because a king’s son is an extraordinary personage, therefore it is so
high a crime for an ignoble person to counterfeit him­self to be such a
one.  It is by that we ‘become the sons
of God,’ John
1:12.  And what a high
presumption is it then that, by a false faith, thou committest? Thou
pretendedst to be a child of God, when no heaven-blood runs in thy veins, but
hast more reason to look for thy kindred in hell and derive thy pedigree from
Satan.  This passeth for no less than
blasphemy in the account of the Scripture. 
‘I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, and are not, but
are the synagogue of Satan,’ Rev. 2:9. 
God loathes such with his heart. 
A false friend is worse than an open enemy in man’s judgment; and a
hypocritical Judas more abhorred by God than a bloody Pilate. Either,
therefore, get true faith, or pretend to none. The ape, because he hath the
face of a man, but not the soul of a man, is therefore the most ridiculous of
all creatures.  And of all sinners, none
will be put more to shame at the last day than such as have aped and imitated
the believer in some exterior postures of profession, but never had the spirit
of a believer so as to perform one vital act of faith.  The psalmist tells us of some whose ‘image’
God will ‘despise,’ Ps.
73.20. It is spoken chiefly of the wicked man’s temporary pros­perity—which,
for its short continuance, is compared to the image or representation of a
thing in the fancy of a sleeping man, that then is busy and pl easeth us with
many fine pleasing objects, but all are lost when our sleep leaves us—this God
will despise at the great day; when he shall not give heaven and glory by the estates
and honours that men had in the world, but tumble them down to hell if
graceless, as well as the poorest beggar in the world.  But, there is another sort of persons whose
image God will at that day despise more than these, and that is the image of all
temporary believers and unsound professors, who have a fantastical faith, which
they set up like an image in their imaginations, and dance about it with as
many self-pleasing thoughts as a man doth that is dreaming himself to be some
great prince; but this great idol shall then be broken, and the worshippers of
it hissed down to hell with the greatest shame of any other.

           3. Reason.  Consider that none stand at greater
disadvantage for the obtaining of a true faith than he who flatters himself
with a false one.  ‘Seest thou a man
wise in his own conceit?  There is more
hope of a fool than of him,’  Prov. 26:12,
that is, there is more hope of persuading him. 
Of all fools the conceited fool is the worst.  Pride makes a man incapable of receiving counsel.  Nebuchadnezzar’s mind is said to be
‘hardened in pride,’ Dan.
5:20.  There is no
reasoning with a proud man.  He castles
himself in his own opinion of himself, and there stands upon his defence
against all arguments that are brought. 
Bid a conceited professor labour for faith, or he is undone; and the man
will tell you that you mistake and knock at the wrong door.  It is the ignorant person, or profane, you
should go to on the errand.  He thanks
God he is not now to seek for a faith, and thus blesseth himself in his good
condition, when God knows ‘he feedeth on ashes: a deceived heart hath turned
him aside, that he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my
right hand?’ Isa.
44:20.  The ignorant
profane person, like the psalmist’s ‘man of low degree,’ is plain
‘vanity.’  It is not hard to make
themselves to acknowledge as much as that they have nothing, de­serve nothing,
can look for nothing as they are but hell and damnation.  But, such as pretend to faith, and content
themselves with a false one, they are like the ‘men of high degree’ ‘a lie,’
which is vanity as well as the other, but with a specious cover over it that
hides it.  Therefore the devil is
forward enough to put poor silly souls on believing, that he may forestall, if
he can, the Spirit's market, and prevent the creature’s obtaining of a true
faith, by cheating of it with a counterfeit. 
It is like the wicked policy of Jeroboam, who, to keep the Israelites
from going to Jerusalem, and hankering after the true worship of God there, set
up something like a religious worship nearer hand, at home, in the ‘golden
calves;’ and this pleased many well enough, that they missed not their walk to
Jeru­salem.  O friends, take heed
therefore of being cheat­ed with a false faith.  Every one, I know, would have the living child to be hers and not
the dead one.  We would all pass for
such as have the true faith and not the false. 
But, be not your own judges; appeal to the Spirit of God, and let him,
with the sword of his word, come and decide the controversy.  Which faith is thine, the true or false?

 

 

 

SECOND
BRANCH.

 

‘The shield of faith’ itself, and how

its truth may be
judged of.

 

           By this time, possibly, you may be
solicitous to know what your faith is, and how you may come to judge of the
truth of it.  Now for your help therein,
take these two directions.  One, taken from the manner of the Spirit’s
working faith; the other, from the properties of faith, when it is wrought.

 

[The manner of the
Spirit’s working faith.]

 

           First
Direction.  We know what faith
is, and how to judge of it, from the manner of the Spirit’s working it in
the soul.  It is incomparably the
greatest work that passeth upon the soul from the Spirit of Christ; it is
called the ßB,D$V88T< µX(,2@H
J­H *L<�µ­,TH
–LJ@Ø—‘The exceeding greatness of his power
to us-ward who believe,’ Eph.
1:19.  Oh, observe
with what a heap of expressions the Spirit of God loads our weak
understandings, that labouring under the weight of them, and finding the
difficulty of reach­ing the significancy of them, we might be the more widened
to conceive of that power which can never be fully understood by us—being
indeed infinite, and so too big to be inclosed within the narrow walls of our
understandings—power,’ ‘greatness of power,’ ‘exceeding greatness,’ and lastly,
‘exceeding greatness of his power,’ that is, of God.  What angel in heaven can tell us what all these amount to?  God, with reverence be it spoken, sets his
whole force to this work.  It is
compared to no less than ‘the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in
Christ, when he raised him from the dead, and set him at his own right hand in
the heavenly places, far above all principality, and power,’ Eph. 1:20,21.  To raise anyone from the dead is a mighty,
an almighty work; but to raise Christ from the dead, carries more wonder with
it than to raise any other.  He had a
heavier grave-stone to keep him down than any besides—the weight of a world’s
sin lay upon him—yet notwithstanding this he is raised with power by the
Spirit, not only out of the grave, but into glory.  Now the power God puts forth upon the soul in working faith, is
according to this of raising Christ, for, indeed, the sinner's soul is as
really dead in sin as Christ's body was in the grave for sin. Now, speak, poor
creature, art thou any way acquainted with such a power of God to have been at
work in thee? or dost thou think slightly of believing, and so show thyself a
stranger to this mystery?  Cer­tainly,
this one thing might resolve many—if they desired to know their own state—that
they have no faith, because they make faith so trivial and light a matter, as
if they were as easy to believe as to say they do; and it were of no more
difficulty to receive Christ into their souls by faith, than to put a bit of
bread into their mouths with their hand. 
Ask some, wheth­er ever such a day or time of God’s power came over
their heads, to humble them for sin, drive them out of themselves, and draw
them effectually unto Christ? And they may answer you as those did Peter, when
he asked—‘Have ye received the Holy Ghost since ye be­lieved?  And they said unto him, We have not so much
as heard wh ether there be any Holy Ghost,’ Acts 19:2.  So these might say, ‘We know not whether
there be any such power required to the working of faith or no.’  But to descend into a more particular
consideration of this powerful work of the Spirit upon the soul for the
production of faith, it will be necessary to consider—O what posture the Spirit
of Christ finds the soul in before he begins this great work! and then how he
makes his addresses to the soul, and what acts he puts forth upon the soul for
the working faith.

           First.  The posture of the soul when the Spirit
begins his great work of grace in it. 
The Spirit finds the creature in such a state as it neither can, nor
will, contribute the least help to the work. 
As the ‘prince of the world,’ when he came to tempt Christ, ‘found
nothing in him’ to befriend and further his tempting design; so, when the
Spirit of Christ comes, he finds as little encouragement from the sinner.  No party within the castle of the soul to
side with him when he comes first to set down before it, and lay siege to it,
but all the powers of the whole man in arms against him!  Hence it is that so many scornful answers
are sent out to the summons that are given sinners to yield.  ‘He came unto his own, and his own received
him not,’ John
1:11.  Never was a
garrison more resolved to stand out against both the treaties and batteries of
an assailing enemy, than the carnal heart is all means that God useth to reduce
it into his obedience.  The noblest
operations of the soul, they are ‘earthly, sensual, devilish,’ James 3:15,
so that except heaven and earth can meet—sensual and spir­itual please one
palate, God and the devil agree —there is no hope that a sinner of himself
should like the motion that Christ makes, or that with any argument he should
be won over to like it, so long as the ground of dislike remains in his
earthly, sensual, and devilish nature.

           Second.  We proceed to show how the Spirit makes
his addresses to the soul, and what acts he puts forth upon it for the working
faith.  Now the Spirit’s address is
suited to the several facilities of the soul, the principal of which are these
three, understanding, conscience, and will. 
These are like three forts, one within the other, which must all be
reduced before the town be taken—the sinner, I mean, subdued to the obedience
of faith—and to these the Spirit makes his particular addresses, putting forth
an act of almighty power upon every one of them, and that in this order.

 

[The Spirit’s
particular addresses to

the soul, when
working faith in it.]

 

           1. The Spirit makes his approach to the
under­standing, and on it he puts forth an act of illumination.  The Spirit will not work in a dark shop; the
first thing he doth in order to faith, is to beat out a window in the soul, and
let in some light from heaven into it. 
Hence, believers are said to be ‘renewed in the spirit of their minds,’ Eph. 4:23,
which the same apostle calleth being ‘renewed in knowledge,’ Col. 3:10.
By nature we know little of God, and nothing of Christ or the way of salvation
by him.  The eye of the creature
therefore must be opened to see the way of life, before he can by faith get
into it.  God doth not use to waft souls
to heaven, like passengers in a ship, who are shut under the hatches, and see
nothing all the way they are sailing to their port.  If [it had been] so, that prayer might have been spared which the
psalmist, inspired of God, breathes forth in the behalf of the blind Gentiles
‘That thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all nations,’ Ps. 67:2.  As faith is not a naked assent without
affiance[3]
and innitency[4]
on Christ; so neither is it a blind as­sent without some knowledge.  If, therefore, thou continuest still in thy
brutish ignorance, and knowest not so much as who Christ is, and what he hath
done for the salvation of poor sinners, and what thou must do to get interest
in him, thou art far enough from believing. 
If the day be not broken in thy soul, much less is the Sun of
righteousness arisen by faith in thy soul.

           2. Again, when the Spirit of God hath
sprung with a divine light into the understanding, then he makes his address
to the conscience, and the act which passeth upon that is an act of conviction;
‘he shall convince the world of sin,’ &c, John 16:8.  Now this conviction is nothing but a
reflection of the light that is in the understanding upon the conscience
whereby the creature feels the weight and force of those truths he knows, so as
to be brought into a deep sense of them. 
Light in a direct beam heats not, nor doth knowledge swimming in the
brain affect.  Most under the gospel
know that unbelief is a damning sin, and that there is ‘no name’ to be saved by
but the name of Christ; yet how few of those know this con­vincingly, so as to
apply it to their own consciences, and to be affected with their own deplored
state, who are the unbelievers and Christless persons?  As he is a convicted drunkard in law, who,
in open court, or before a lawful authority, upon clear testimony and
deposition of witnesses, is found and judged to be such; so he, scripturally,
is a convinced sinner, who, upon the clear evidence of the word brought against
him by the Spirit, is found by his own conscience —God’s officer in his
bosom—to be so.  Speak now, poor
creature, did ever such an act of the Spirit of God pass upon thee as this is?
which that thou mayest the better discern of, try thyself by these few
characters of a convinced person.

           (1.) A sinner truly convinced is not
only convinced of this sin or that sin, but of the evil of all sin. It
is an ill sign when a person seems in a passion to cry out of one sin, and to
be senseless of another sin. A parboiled conscience is not right, soft in one
part, and hard in another.  The Spirit
of God is uniform in its work.

           (2.) The convinced sinner is not only
convinced of acts of sin, but of the state of sin also.  He is not only affected [by] what he hath
done—this law bro­ken, and that mercy abused by him—but with what his state and
present condition is.  Peter leads Simon
Magus from that one horrid act he committed to the consideration of that which
was worse—the dismal state that he discovered him to be in.  ‘I perceive that thou art in the gall of
bitterness, and in the bond of iniquity,’ Acts 8:23.  Many will confess they do not do as they
should, who will not think by any means so ill of themselves that their state
is na ught—a state of sin and death; whereas the convinced soul freely puts
himself under this sentence of death, owns his condition, and dissembles not
his pedigree.  ‘I am a most vile
wretch,’ saith he, ‘a limb of Satan, full of sin as the toad is of rank
poison.  My whole nature lies in
wickedness, even as the dead rotten carcass doth its slime and
putrefaction.  I am a child of wrath,
born to no other inheritance than hell-flames; and if God will now tread me
down thither, I have not one righteous syllable to object against his
proceedings, but there is that in my own conscience which will clear him from
having done me any wrong in my doom.’

           (3.) The convinced sinner doth not
only condemn himself for what he hath done and is, but he despairs of
himself as to anything he can now do to save himself.  Many, though they go so far as to con­fess
they are vile wretches, and have lived wickedly, and for this deserve to die;
yet, when they have put the rope around their 
neck by a self-condemning act, they are so far from being convinced of
their own im­potency, that they hope to cut the rope with their re­pentance,
reformation, and I know not what bundle of good works, which they think shall
redeem their credit with God and recover his favour, which their former sins
have unhappily lost them.  And this
comes to pass, because the plough of conviction did not go deep enough to tear
up those secret roots of self-confidence with which the heart of every sinner
is woefully tainted.  Whereas every
soul, thoroughly convinced by the Spirit, is a self-despairing soul; he sees
himself beyond his own help, like a poor condemned prisoner, laden with so many
heavy irons, that he sees it is impossible for him to make an es­cape, with all
his skill or strength, out of the hands of justice.  O friends! look whether the work be gone thus far in your souls
or no.  Most that perish, it is not
their disease that kills them, but their physician. They think to cure
themselves, and this leaves them uncurable. 
Speak, soul, did the Lord ever ferret thee out of this burrow where so
many earth themselves? Art thou as much at a loss what to do, as sensible for
what thou hast done?  Dost thou see hell
in thy sin and despair in thyself?  Hath
God got thee out of this Keilah, and convinced thee if thou wouldst stay in the
self-confidence of thy repentance, reformation, and duties, they would all
deliver thee up into the hands of God's justice and wrath, when they shall come
against thee?  Then, indeed, thou hast
escaped one of the finest snares that the wit of hell can weave.

           (4.) The convinced sinner is not only
convinced of sin, so as to condemn himself, and despair of himself, but he is convinced
of a full provision laid up in Christ for self-condemned and self-despairing
ones.  ‘He shall convince the world
of sin, and of righteousness,’ John 16:9, 10.  And this is as necessary an antecedent for
faith as any of the former.  Without
this, the soul convinced of sin is more like to go to the gallows with Judas,
or fall on the sword of the law—as the jailer attempted to do on his when he
thought his condition desperate—than think of com­ing to Christ.  Who will go to his door that hath not
wherewithal to relieve him?

           3. The third and last faculty to be
dealt with is the will, and on this, for the production of faith, the
Spirit puts forth an act of renovation, whereby he doth sweetly, but
powerfully, incline the will, which before was rebellious and refractory, to
accept of Christ, and make a free deliberate choice of him for his Lord and Saviour.  I say a ‘free’ choice, not only
cudgelled into him with apprehensions of wrath, as one may run under an enemy’s
pent-house in a storm, whose door he would have passed by in fair weather, and
never looked that way.  Speak, soul, dost
thou please thyself in choosing Christ? dost thou go to Christ, not only for
safety, but delight?  So the spouse: ‘I
sat under his shadow with great delight,’ Song 2:3.  I say a ‘deliberate’ choice, wherein
the soul well weighs the terms Christ is offered on, and when it hath
considered all seriously, likes them, and clos­eth with him.  Like [as it was with] Ruth, who when Naomi
spake the worst she could to discourage her, yet liked her mother’s company too
well to lose it for those troubles that attended her.  Speak, soul, hath the Spirit of God thus put his golden key into
the lock of thy will, to open the everlasting door of thy heart to let Christ
the King of glory in?  Hath he not only
opened the eye of thy understanding, as he awaked Peter asleep in prison, and
caused the chains of senselessness and stupidity to fall off thy conscience,
but also opened the iron gate of thy will, to let thee out of the prison of
impenitency, where even now thou wert fast bolted in; yea, brought thee to
knock at heaven-door for entertainment, as Peter did at the house of Mary,
where the church was met.  Be of good
comfort, thou mayest know assuredly that God hath sent, not his angel, but his
own Spirit, and hath delivered thee out of the hand of sin, Satan, and justice.

 

[The properties of true faith,

when it is wrought.]

 

           Second
Direction.  We know what faith
is, and how to judge of it, from its properties when it is wrought in us buy
the Spirit.  We shall content
ourselves by noticing three.  First.
True faith is obediential.  Second.
It is prayerful.  Third. It is
uni­form in its acting.

 

[True faith is obediential.]

 

           First Property. This choice
excellent faith is an obediential faith; that is, true faith on the
promise works obedience to the command. 
Abraham is fa­mous for his obedience; no command, how difficult soever,
came amiss to him.  He is an obedient
servant indeed, that, when he doth but hear his master knock with his foot,
leaves all and runs presently to know his master’s will and pleasure.  Such a servant had God of Abraham: ‘Who
raised up the righteous man from the east, called him to his foot,’ Isa. 41:2.  But what was the spring that set Abraham’s
obedience a going?  See for this, Heb. 11:8
‘By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should
after receive for an inheri’tance, obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither
he went.’  As it is impossible to please
God without faith, so it is impossible not to desire to please God with faith.  It may well go for an idol faith, that hath
hands but doth not work, feet, but doth not walk in the statutes of God.  No sooner had Christ cured the woman in the
gospel of her fever, but it is said, ‘She arose, and ministered unto them,’ Matt. 8:15.  Thus the believing soul stands up and
ministers unto Christ in gratitude and obedience. Faith is not lazy; it
inclines not the soul to sleep, but work; it sends the creature not to bed,
there to snort away his time in ease and sloth, but into the field. The night
of ignorance and unbelief, that was the creature's sleeping time; but,
when the Sun of righteousness ariseth, and it is day in the soul, then the
creature riseth and goeth forth to his labour. 
The first words that break out faith’s lips, are those of Saul in his
hour of conversion: ‘Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?’ Acts 9:6.
Faith turns the Jordan, and alters the whole course of a man.  ‘We were,’ saith the apostle, ‘foolish’ and
‘disobedient,’ ‘but after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward
man appeared,’ Titus
3:3, 4, then the case was altered, as it
follows.  And, therefore, take your foul
fingers off the promise, and pretend no more to faith, if ye be chil­dren of
Belial—such whose necks do not freely stoop to this yoke of obedience. The
devil himself may as soon pass for a believer as a disobedient soul.  Other things he can show as much as
you.  Dost thou pre­tend to knowledge?
thou wilt not deny the devil to be a greater scholar than thyself, I hope, and
that in Scripture knowledge.  Dost thou
believe the Scripture to be true? and doth not he more strongly?  Dost thou tremble? he much more.  It is obedience he wants, and this makes him
a devil, and it will make thee like him also.

 

[Two characters
distinguishing

true faith’s
obedience.]

 

           Question.  But, you may ask, what stamp is there to
be found on faith’s obedience which will distinguish it from all
counterfeits—for there are many fair semblances of obedience, which the devil
will never grudge us the having?

           Answer.  Take these two characters of the obedi­ence
of faith.

           1. Character. Faith’s
obedience begins at the heart, and from thence it diffuseth and dilates
itself to the outward man, till it overspreads the whole man in a sincere
endeavour.  As in natural life, the
first part that lives in the heart, so the first that faith sub­dues into
obedience is the heart.  It is called a
‘faith which purifieth the heart,’ Acts 15.9.  And the believing Romans ‘obeyed from the
heart that form of doctrine which was delivered to them,’ Rom. 6:17.  Whereas a false faith, which apes this true
faith—as art imitates nature—begins without, and there ends.  All the seeming good works of a counterfeit
believer, they are like the beautiful colour in a picture’s face, which comes
not from a principle of life within, but the painter’s pencil without.  Such were those, John 2:23,
who are said to ‘believe on Christ,’ ‘but Jesus did not commit himself unto
them,’ ver.
24.  And why? ‘for
he knew what was in man,’ ver.
25.  He cared not
for the painted porch and goodly outside: ‘for he knew what was in man,’ and by
that knowledge he knew them to be rotten at core, naught at heart, before they
were specked on the skin of their exterior conversation.

           Question (1.) But how may I
know my obedience is the obedience of the heart?

           Answer.  If it comes from love then it is the
obedience of the heart.  He commands the
heart that is the master of its love. 
The castle must needs yield when he that keeps it, and hath the keys of
it, submits.  Love is the affection that
governs this royal fort of man's heart. 
We give our hearts to them we give our love to.  And indeed thus it is that faith brings the
heart over into subjection and obedience to God, by putting it under a law of
love; ‘faith worketh by love,’ Gal. 5:6. 
First, faith worketh love, and then it worketh by it.  As first the workman sets an edge on his
tools, and then carves and cuts with them; so faith sharpens the soul’s love to
God, and then acts by it.  Or, as a statuary,
to make some difficult piece, before he goes about it, finding his hands numb
with cold, that he cannot handle his tools so nimbly as he should, goes first
to the fire, and, with the help of its heat, chafes them till they of stiff and
numb become agile and active, then to work he falls; so faith brings the
soul—awk and listless enough, God knows, to any duty—unto the meditation of the
peerless, matchless love of God in Christ to it; and at this fire faith stays
the Christian's thoughts till his affections begin to kindle and come to some
sense of this love of God, and now the Christian bestirs himself for God with
might and main.

           Question (2.)  But how may I know my obedience is from
love?

           Answer. I will send to St.
John to be resolved of this question, ‘For this is the love of God, that we
keep his commandments: and his commandments are not grievous,’ I John 5:3.  Speak, soul, what account have you of the
commandments?  Do you look upon them as
an iron chain about your legs, and think yourselves prisoners because you are
tied to them? or do you value them as a chain of gold about your neck, and
esteem yourselves favourites of the King of heaven, that he will honour you to
honour him by serving of him?  So did as
great a prince as the world had: ‘Who am I, and what is my people, that we should
be able to offer so willingly,’ I Chr. 29. 
Not, ‘Who am I, that I should be a king over my people?’ but ‘that I
should have a heart so gracious to offer willingly with my people.’  Not, ‘Who am I, that they should serve me?’
but, ‘that thou wilt honour me with a heart to serve thee with them?’  The same holy man in another place speak of
sin as his prison, and his obedience as his liberty: ‘I will walk at liberty:
for I seek thy precepts,’ Ps.
119:45. 
When God gives him a large heart for duty, he is as thankful as a man
that was bound in prison is when he is set at liberty, that he may visit his
friends and follow his calling.  The
only grievous thing to a loving soul is to be hindered in his obedience.  This is that which makes such a one out of
love with the world, and with being in it —because it cumbers him in his work,
and many times keeps him from it.  As a
conscionable faithful servant, that is lame or sickly, and can do his master
little service, O how it grieves him! 
Thus the loving soul bemoans itself, that it should put God to so much
cost, and be so unprofitable under it. 
Speak, is this thy temper? 
Blessed art thou of the Lord! 
There is a jewel of two diamonds, which this will prove thou art owner
of, that the crown-jewels of all the princes of the world are not so worthy to
be valued with, as a heap of dust or dung is to be compared with them. The
jewel I mean, is made of this pair of graces —faith and love. They are thine,
and, with them, God and all that he hath and is.  But, if the commandments if the commandments of God be ‘grievous,’
as they are to every carnal heart, and thou countest thyself at ease when thou
canst make an escape from a duty to commit a sin, as the beast doth when his
collar is off and he in his fat pasture again; now thou art where thou wouldst
be, and can show some spirits that thou hast. 
But when conscience puts on the trace again, thou art dull and heavy
again.  O, it speaks thee to have no
love to God, and therefore no faith on God, that is true.  That is a jade indeed who hath no mettle but
in the pasture.

           2. Character.  The obedience of faith is full of
self-denial.  Faith keeps the
creature low; as in what he hath, so he doth. 
‘I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me,’ Gal. 2:20.  As if he had said, ‘I pray, mistake me not;
when I say, ‘I live,’ I mean, not that I live by myself, but Christ in me.  I live, and that de­liciously, but it is
Christ that keeps the house, not I. I mortify my corruptions, and vanquish
temptations, but I am debtor to Christ for the strength.’  None can write here, as one did under Pope
Adrian’s statue —where the place of his birth was named, and those princes that
had preferred him from step to step till he mounted the pope’s chair, but God
left out of all the story—‘nihil hic Deus fecit’—God did nothing for
this man.  No, blessed Paul, and in him
every be­liever, acknowledgeth God for sole foun­der, and benefactor too, of
all the good he hath and doth. They are not ashamed to acknowledge who they are
beholden to for all.  ‘These are the
children which God hath graciously given me,’ said Jacob. And these the
services which God hath graciously assisted me in, saith Paul; ‘I laboured more
abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me,’ I Cor. 15:10.
All is ex dono Dei—from the gift of God. O how chary are saints of
writing themselves the authors of their own good works, parts, or
abilities!  ‘Art thou able,’ said the
king to Daniel, ‘to make known unto me the dream which I have seen?’ Dan. 2:26.  Now mark, he doth not say, as the proud
astrologers, ‘We will show the interpretation,’ Dan. 2:4.  That fitted their mouths well enough who had
no acquaintance with God, but not Daniel’s—the servant of the living God.  Though at the very time he had the secret
revealed to him and could tell the king his dream, yet he was careful to stand
clear from any filching of God's glory from him; and therefore he answers the
king by telling him what his God could do rather than himself.  ‘There is a God in heaven that revealeth
secrets,’ &c.  And what makes Daniel
so self‑denying? Truly it was because he had obtained this secret of God
by faith at the throne of grace; as you may perceive by chapter 2:15-17
compared.  That faith which taught him
to beg the mercy of God, enabled him to deny himself, and give the entire glory
of it from himself to God.  As rivers
empty their streams again into the bosom of the sea, whence they at first
received them; so men give the praise of what they do unto that by which they
do it.  If they attempt any enterprise
with their own wit or industry, you shall have them bring their sacrifice to
their wit or net.  No wonder to hear
Nebuchadnezzar—who looked no higher than himself in building his great
Babylon—ascribe the honour of it to himself, ‘Is not this great Babylon, that I
have built...by the might of my power, and for the honour of my majesty?’ Dan. 4:30.
But faith teacheth the creature to blot out his own name, and write the name of
God in its room, upon all he hath and doth. 
When the servants came to give up their accounts to their Lord, every
one for his pound; those that were faithful to improve it how humbly and
self-denyingly do they speak! ‘Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds,’ saith
the first, Luke
19:16.  ‘Thy pound hath
gained five,’ saith another, ver. 18. 
Mark, not ‘I have gained,’ but, ‘thy pound hath gained ten and
five.’  They do not applaud themselves,
but ascribe both principal and increase to God; thy talent hath gained, that
is, thy gifts and grace, through thy assistance and blessing, have gained thus
much more.  Only he that did least comes
in with a brag, and tells his Lord what he had done. ‘Behold, here is thy
pound, which I have kept laid up in a napkin.’ 
Least doers are greatest boasters.

 

[True faith is prayerful.]

 

           Second Property.  True faith is prayerful.  Prayer, it is the child of faith; and as the
child bears his father’s name upon him, so doth prayer the name of faith.  What is it known by but by ‘the prayer of
faith?’ James
5:15.  Prayer, it is
the very natural breath of faith. 
Supplication and thanksgiving—the two parts of prayer—by these, as the
body by the double motion of the lungs, doth the Christian suck in mercy from
God, and breathe back again that mercy in praise to God. But, without faith he
could do neither; he could not by supplication draw mercy from God; ‘for he
that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them
that diligently seek him,’ Heb. 11:6. 
Neither could he return praises to God without faith.  David's heart must be fixed before he can
sing and give thanks, Ps.
56.  Thanksgiving is
an act of self-denial, and it is faith alone that will show us the way out of
our own doors; and as the creature cannot pray—I mean acceptably—without faith,
so with faith he cannot but pray. The new creature, like our infants in their
natural birth, comes crying into the world; and therefore Christ tells it for
great news to Ananias of Saul, a new-born believer, ‘Behold he prayeth.’  But is that so strange, that one brought up
at the foot of Gamaliel, and so precise a Pharisee as he was, should be found
upon his knees at prayer? Truly no, it was that his sect gloried
in—their fasting and praying—and therefore, he, being strict in his way, was no
doubt acquainted with this work as to the exterior part of it, but he never had
the spirit of prayer, till he now had the Spirit of grace, whereby he believed
on Jesus Christ.  And therefore, if you
will try your faith, it must not be by bare praying, but by some peculiar
characters which faith imprints prayer withal. 
Now there are three acts by which faith dis­covers itself in reference
to this duty of prayer.  1. Faith puts
forth an exciting act, whereby it stirs up the Christian to pray.  2. Faith hath an assisting act in prayer.  3. Faith hath a supporting act after prayer.

 

[Three acts by which
faith discovers

itself in reference
to prayer.]

 

           1. Act. Faith puts forth an
exciting act, whereby it provokes the Christian and strongly presseth him to
pray. And this it doth,

           (1.) By discovering to the
creature his own beggary and want, as also the fulness that is to be had from
God in Christ for his supply—both which faith useth as powerful motives to
quicken the soul up to pray.  As the
lepers said to one another, ‘Why sit we here until we die?  If we say, We will enter into the city, then
the famine is in the city, and we shall die there: come, and let us fall into
the host of the Syrians,’ II
Kings 7:3, 4. 
Thus faith rouseth up the soul to prayer.  If thou stayest at thy own door, O my soul, thou art sure to
starve and die. What seest thou in thyself but hunger and famine?  No bread there; no money to buy any in thy
own purse.  Up therefore, haste thee to
thy God, and thy soul shall live.  O
sirs, are you pressed with this inward feeling of your own wants?  Press to the throne of grace as the only way
left for your supply.  You may hope it
is faith that sends you.  Faith is the
principle of our new life.  ‘I live,’
said Paul, ‘by the faith of the Son of God,’ Gal. 2:20.  This life being weak, is craving and crying
for nourishment, and that naturally, as the new-born babe doth for the
milk.  If therefore you find this inward
sense prompting and provoking of you to cry to God, it shows this prin­ciple of
life—faith I mean —is in thee.

           Objection.  But, may not an unbeliever pray in the sense
of his wants, and be inwardly pinched with them, which may make him pray very
feelingly?

           Answer. We must distinguish of
wants.  They are either spiritual or
carnal.  It cannot be denied, but an
unbeliever may be very sensible of outward carnal wants, and knock loud at
heaven-gate for supply.  We find them
‘howling on their beds, and assembling themselves for corn and wine,’ Hosea 7:14.  There is the cry of the creature, and the
cry of the new crea­ture.  Every
creature hath a natural cry for that which suits their nature.  Hence, ‘The young lions roar after their
prey, and seek their meat from God,’ Ps. 104:21. But, give the
lion flesh, and he will not roar for want of grass; give the ox grass, and you
shall not hear him lowing for flesh; so give the faithless, graceless person
his fill of his carnal food—sensual enjoyments—and you shall have little
complaint of spiritual wants from him. 
They are therefore spiritual wants you must try your faith by.  If thou canst heartily pray for love to
Christ, faith on him, or any other grace—feeling the want of them, as a hungry
man doth of his food —thou mayest conclude safely there is this principle of
new life, which, like the veins at the bottom of the stomach, by its sucking, puts
thee to pain till it be heard and satisfied; for these graces being proper to
the new creature, can be truly desired of none but one that is a new creature.

           (2.) Faith excites to prayer from
an inward de­light it hath in communion with God.  ‘It is good for me,’ saith the psalmist, ‘to draw near to
God.’  Now mark the next words, ‘I have
put my trust in the Lord,’ Ps. 73:28. 
We take delight to be often looking where we have laid up our treasures.
This holy man had laid up his soul, and all he had, in God, by faith, to be
kept safely for him; and now he delights oft to be with God.  He hath that which invites him into his
presence with sweet content.  By faith
the soul is contracted to Christ.  Now,
being espoused to Christ, there is no wonder at all that it should desire com­munion
with him.  And prayer, being the place
of meeting where Christ and the soul can come the near­est on this side of
heaven, therefore the believer is seen so oft walking that way.  Canst thou say, poor soul, that this is thy
errand when praying—to see the face of God? 
Can nothing less, and needest thou nothing more to satisfy, and recreate
thy soul in prayer, than communion with God? 
Certainly God hath thy faith, or else thou couldst not so freely bestow
thy love on him and take delight in him.

           2. Act. Faith puts forth an
assisting act in prayer.  To
instance only in two particulars.

           (1.) It assists the soul with
importunity.  Faith is the wrestling
grace.  It comes up close to God; takes
hold of God, and will not easily take a denial.  It in­fires all the affections, and sets them on work.  This is the soul's eye, by which it sees the
filth, the hell, that is in every sin. 
And seeing affects the heart, and puts it into a passion of sorrow when
the soul spreads its abominations before the Lord.  The creature now needs no onion to make it weep.  Tears come alone freely, as water from a
flowing spring.  It makes a discovery of
Christ to the soul in the excellencies of his person, love, and graces, from
the glass of the promise, at the sight of which it is even sick with longing
after them, and such pangs of love come upon it, as make it send forth strong
cries and supplications for that it so impatiently desires.  Yea, further, faith doth not barely set the
creature’s teeth on edge by displaying the excellency of Christ and his grace;
but it supplies him with arguments, and helps the soul to wield and use them
both valiantly and victoriously upon the Almighty.  Never could he tell what to do with a promise in prayer, till now
that faith teacheth him to press God with it, humbly, yet boldly.  ‘What wilt thou do unto thy great name?’ Joshua 7:9.  As if he had said, ‘Thou art so fast bound
to thy people by promise and oath, that thou canst not leave them to perish,
but thy name will suffer with them.’ 
Faith melts promises into arguments, as the soldier doth lead into
bullets, and then helps the Christian to send them with a force to heaven in a
fervent prayer; whereas a promise in an unbeliever’s mouth is like a shot in a
gun's mouth without any fire to put to it. 
O how cold and dead doth a promise drop from him in prayer!  He speaks promises, but cannot pray prom­ises
or press promises.  And therefore, try
thyself not by naked praying, but by importunity in prayer; and that, not by
the agitation of thy bodily spirits, but the inward working of thy soul and
spirit, whether carried out to plead the promise and urge it upon God with an
humble importunity, or not.

           (2.) Faith enables the soul to
persevere in the work.  False faith
may show some mettle at hand, but it will jade at length.  Will the hypocrite pray always? Job 27:10.  No; as the wheel wears with turning, till it
breaks at last; so doth the hypocrite. 
He prays himself weary of praying. 
Something or other will in time make him quarrel with that duty which he
never inwardly liked; whereas the sincere believer hath that in him which makes
it impossible he should quite give over praying, except he should also cease
believing. Prayer, it is the very breath of faith.  Stop a man’s breath, and where is he then? It is true the
believer through his own negligence may find some more dif­ficulty of fetching
his prayer-breath at one time than at another—as a man in a cold doth for his
natural breath. Alas! who is so careful of his soul’s health that needs not to
bewail this?  But for faith to live, and
this breath of prayer to be quite cut off, is impossible. We see David did but
hold his breath a little longer than ordinary, and what a distemper it put him
into, till he gave himself ease again by venting his soul in prayer.  ‘I held my peace, even from good; and my
sorrow was stirred.  My heart was hot
within me, while I was musing the fire burned: then spake I with my tongue,
Lord, make me to know mine end,’ Ps. 39:2.  Dost thou, O man, find thyself under a
necessity of praying?  As the little
babe who cannot choose but cry when it ails or wants anything—because it hath
no other way to help itself than by crying to hasten its mother or nurse to its
help—[so] the Chris­tian’s wants, sins, and temptations continuing to return
upon him, he cannot but continue also to pray against them.  ‘From the end of the earth will I cry unto
thee,’ saith David, Ps.
61:2.  Wherever I am I
will find thee out.  Prison me, banish
me, or do with me what thou wilt, thou shalt never be rid of me, ‘I will abide
in thy tabernacle for ever,’ ver. 4. 
But how could David do that when banished from it?  Surely he means by prayer.  The praying Christian carries a ‘tabernacle’
with him.  As long as David can come at
the tabernacle he will not neglect it; and when he cannot through sickness,
banishment, &c., then he will look towards it, and as devoutly worship God
in the open fields as if he were in it. 
‘Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense; and the lifting up
of my hands as the evening sacrifice,’ Ps. 141:2.  He speaks of such a time when he could not
come to of­fer sacrifice at the tabernacle.

           3. Act.  Faith hath a supporting act after prayer.

           (1.) It supports the soul to
expect a gracious an­swer. ‘I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look
up,’ Ps.
5:3.  Or, ‘I will
look’ for what, but for a return?  An
unbelieving heart shoots at random, and never minds where his arrow lights, or
what comes of his praying; but faith fill the soul with expectation.  As a merchant, when he casts up his estate,
counts what he hath sent beyond sea, as well as what he hath in hand; so doth
faith reckon upon what he hath sent to heaven in prayer and not received, as
well as those mercies which he hath received, and are in hand at present.  Now this expectation which faith raiseth in
the soul after prayer, appears in the power that it hath to quiet and compose
the soul in the interim between the sending forth, as I may say, the ship of
prayer, and its return home with its rich lading it goes for. And it is more or
less, according as faith’s strength is. Sometimes faith comes from prayer in
triumph, and cries victoria—victory. 
It gives such a being and exis­tence to the mercy prayed for in the
Christian’s soul, before any likelihood of it appears to sense and reason, that
the Christian can silence all his troubled thoughts with the expectation of its
coming.  So Hannah prayed, and ‘was no
more sad,’ I
Sam. 1:18. Yea, it will make the Christian disburse
his praises for the mercy long before it is received.  Thus high faith wrought in David, ‘What time I am afraid, I will
trust in thee;’ and in the next words, ‘In God I will praise his word,’ Ps. 56:3, 4;
that is, he would praise God for his promise, before there were any performance
of it to him, when it had no existence but in God’s faithfulness and David's
faith.  This holy man had such a
piercing eye of faith, as he could see the promise, when he was at lowest ebb
of misery, so certain and unquestionable in the power and truth of God, that he
could then praise God, as if the promised mercy had actually been fulfilled to
him. But I would not have thee, Christian, try the truth of thy faith by this
heroic high strain it mounts to in some eminent believers. Thou mayest be a
faithful soldier to Christ, though thou attainest not to the degree of a few
worthies in his army, more honourable in this respect than the rest of their
brethren.

           (2.) There is a lower act of faith,
which, if thou canst find, may certify thee of its truth: that, I mean, which,
though it doth not presently, upon praying, disburden the soul of all its
anxious disquieting thoughts, yet keeps the soul's head above their waves
and gives a check to them, that they abate, though by little and little, as the
stream in a channel doth at a falling tide.  When God took the deluge from the earth, he did not do it in a
moment.  It is said, ‘The waters
returned from off the earth continually,’ Gen. 8:3; that is, it was
falling water from day to day, till all was gone.  Canst thou not find, Christian, that some of thy tumultuous
disquieting thoughts are let out at the sluice of prayer, and that it is some
ease to thy encumbered spirit, that thou hast the bosom of a gra­cious God to
empty thy sorrowful heart into? and, though praying doth not drain away all thy
fears, yet it keeps thee, doth it not, from being overflown with them, which
thou couldst not avoid without faith?  A
soul wholly void of faith, prays, and leaves none of its burden with God, but
carries all back with it that it brought, and more too.  Calling on God gives no more relief to him,
than throwing out an anchor that hath no hooks to take hold on the firm earth,
doth the sinking ship.  If, therefore,
poor soul, thou find­est, upon throwing thy anchor of faith in prayer, that it
takes such hold on Christ in the promise as to stay thee from being driven by
the fury of Satan’s affright­ing temptations, or thy own despairing thoughts,
bless God for it.  The ship that rides
at anchor is safe —though it may be a little tossed to and fro—so long as the
anchor keeps its hold.  And so art thou,
poor soul.  That faith will save from
hell, that will not wholly free the soul here from fears[5].

 

[True faith is uniform.]

 

           Third Property. True faith is uniform.  As sin­cere obedience doth not pick and
choose—take this commandment, and leave that—but hath respect to all the
precepts of God; so, faith unfeigned hath re­spect to all the truths of
God.  It believes one promise as well as
another.  As the true Christian must not
have ‘the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ,’ James 2:1, so, not with
respect to truths.  To pretend to
believe one promise, and to give no credit to another, this is to be partial in
the promises, as the priests are charged to be in the duties of the law, Mal. 2:9.  The honour of God is as deeply engaged to
perform one promise as another.  Indeed,
as the breach of but one command­ment would put us under the guilt of the
whole; so God's failing in one promise—which is blasphemy to think—would be the
breaking of his whole covenant. Promises are copulative as well as commands;
and therefore, neither can God keep one, except he per­form all; nor we believe
one, except we believe all. God hath spoken all these words of promises, as he
did those of precepts; his seal is to all, and he looks that we should compass
all within the embraces of our faith. David bears witness to the whole truth of
God, ‘Thy word is true from the beginning: and every one of thy righteous
judgments endureth for ever,’ Ps. 119:160.  Try now thy faith here.  Possibly, thou pre­tendest to believe the promise
for pardon, and art oft pleasing thyself with the thoughts of it; but, what
faith hast thou on the promise, for sanctifying thy nature and subduing thy
corruptions?  May be thou mindest not
these, improvest not these.  This fruit
may hang long enough on the branches of the promises before thou gatherest
it.  The other is for thy tooth, not
these; whereas true faith would like one as well as the other.  See how David heartily prays for the perform­ance
of this promise, ‘Be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that love
thy name.  Order my steps in thy word:
and let not any iniquity have do­minion over me,’ Ps. 119:132, 133.  David would not lose any privilege that God
hath by promise settled on his children. 
‘Do with me,’ saith he, ‘as thou usest to do.’  this is no more than family fare—what thou promisest to do for
all that love thee; and let me not go worse clad than the rest of my
brethren.  May be thou fanciest thou
hast a faith for the eternal salva­tion of thy soul. But, hast thou faith to
rely on God for the things of this life? A strange believer, is he not, that
lives by faith for heaven, and by his wits and sin­ful policy for the
world?  Christ proves that they, John 5:44,
did not believe on him, because they durst not trust him with their names and
credits.  If we cannot trust him with
the less, how can we in the greater?

           I deny not, but he that hath a true
faith, yea, a strong faith for heaven, may be put to a plunge and his faith
foiled about a temporal promise; but we must not from an hour of temptation,
wherein God leaves his most eminent saints to humble them, judge of the
constant ordinary frame of the believer’s heart. Though Abraham dissembled once
to save his life, which he thought in some danger for his wife's beauty; yet he
did, at other times, give eminent testimony that he trusted God for his
temporal life, as well as for his eternal salvation. I do not therefore bid
thee question the truth of thy faith for every fainting fit that comes over it,
as to the good things of the promise of this life.  A man may, in a time of war, have some of his estate lie under
the enemy’s power for a time, and he, so long, have no profits from it; but
still he reckons it as his estate, is troubled for his present great loss, and
endeavours, as soon as he can, to re­cover it again out of his enemy’s
hand.  So, in the hurry of a temptation,
when Satan—the soul’s great enemy—is abroad, and God withdraws his assistance,
the believer may have little support from some partic­ular promise; but he ever
counts that as his portion as well as any other, mourns he can act his faith no
more upon it, and labours to reinforce his faith with new strength from heaven
when he can, that he may be able to live upon it, and improve it more to his
com­fort.  So that still it holds true,
if we believe not God for this life, neither do we for the other.  In a word, may be thou pretendest for a
faith for thy temporals, and seemest to trust God for things of this life; but
art a mere stranger to those prime acts of faith, whereby the believing soul
closeth with Christ, and receiveth him as his Lord and Saviour, and so seals to
the cov­enant that in the gospel is tendered to poor sinners. Canst thou so far
fight against thy own reason, as to think that any temporal promise belongs to
thee with­out these?  What gives the
woman the right to her jointure[6]
but her marriage covenant?  And what
gives the creature a true claim to these promises, or any other in the covenant
of grace, but its union to Christ, and accepting of him as he is offered?  The first act of God's love to the creature
is that whereby he chooseth such a one to be his, and sets him apart, in his un­changeable
purpose, to be an object of his special love in Christ, and therefore called
‘the foundation,’ as that on which God lays the superstructure of all other
mercies: ‘The foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal, The Lord
knoweth them that are his,’ II Tim. 2:19.  First, God chooseth a person to be his, and
on this foundation he builds, and bestows all his further cost of mercy upon
the creature, as one that is his.  So on
the creature's part, fist, faith closeth with Christ, severs him in his
thoughts from all others, and chooseth him to be his Saviour, in whom alone he
will trust, and whom alone he will serve; which done, then it trades with this
promise and that, as the portion which falls to him by marriage with
Christ.  And therefore see how
preposterous thy course is, who snatchest these promises to thyself, before
there hath passed any good-will from thee to Christ.

 

 

 

 

BRANCH
THIRD.

 

[Exhortation to unbelievers,

to obtain ‘the shield
of faith.’]

 

           Is faith so precious a grace?  Let it provoke you, who want it, to get
it.  Can you hear of this pearl
and  not wish it were yours?  Wherefore hath the Spirit spoken such great
and glorious things of faith in the Word but to make it the more desirable in
your eye? Is there any way to get Christ, but by getting faith? or dost not
thou think that thou needest Christ as much as any other?  There is a generation of men in the world
would almost make one think this was their judgment, who, because their
corruptions have not, by breaking out into plague-sores of profaneness, left
such a brand of ignominy upon their name as some others lie under, but their
conversations have been strewed with some flowers of morality, whereby their
names have kept sweet among their neighbours; and, therefore, they do not at
all listen to the offers of Christ, neither do their consciences check them for
this neglect.  And why so?  Surely it is not because they are more
willing to go to hell than others; but because the way they think they are in
will bring them in good time to heaven, without any more ado. Poor deluded
creatures!  Is Christ then sent to help
only some more debauched sinners to heaven, such as drunkards, swearers, and of
that rank?  And are civil, moral men,
left to walk thither on their own legs? 
I am sure, if the word may be believed, we have the case resolved clear
enough.  That tells of but one way to
heaven for all that mean to come there. 
As there is but ‘one God,’ so but ‘one Mediator between God and men, the
man Christ Jesus,’ I
Tim. 2:5.  And
if there is but one bridge over the gulf, judge what is like to become of the
civil, righteous man, for all his sweet-scented life, if he miss this one
bridge, and goes on in the road he hath set out in for heaven?  O remember, proud man, who thou art, and
cease thy vain attempt.  Art thou not of
Adam’s seed?  Hast thou not traitor’s
blood in thy veins?  If ‘every mouth be
stopped,’ Rom.
3:19, 20, how darest thou open thine?  If ‘all the world become guilty before God,’
that ‘by the deeds of the law no flesh can be justified in his sight,’ where
then shalt thou stand to plead thy innocency before him who sees thy black skin
under thy white feathers, thy foul heart through thy fair carriage? It is faith
on Christ that alone can purify thy heart. 
Without it thy washed face and hands—exter­nal righteousness I mean—will
never commend thee to God.  And
therefore thou art under a horrible de­lusion if thou dost not think that thou
needest Christ and a faith to interest thee in him, as much as the bloodiest
murderer or filthiest Sodomite in the world. If a company of men and children
in a journey were to wade through some brook, not beyond a man’s depth, the men
would have the advantage of the chil­dren. 
But if to cross the seas, the men would need a ship to waft them over,
as well as the children.  And they might
well pass for madmen, if they should think to wade through, without the help of
a ship, that is offered them as well as the other, because they are a little
taller than the rest are.  Such a
foolish, desper­ate adventure wouldst thou give for thy soul, if thou shouldst
think to make thy way through the justice of God to heaven, without shipping
thyself by faith in Christ, because thou art not so bad in thy external
conversation as others.  Let me
therefore again and again beseech all that are yet destitute of faith, to
endeavour for it, and that speedily. 
There is nothing deserves the precedency in your thoughts before
this.  David resolved not to ‘give sleep
to his eyes, or slum­ber to his eyelids, till he find out a place for the Lord,
an habitation for the mighty God of Jacob,’ Ps. 132:4, 5.  The habitation which pleaseth God most is
thy heart; but it must be a believing heart, ‘That Christ may dwell in your
heart by faith,’ Eph.
3:17.  O how dare yo
sleep a night in that house where God doth not dwell? and he dwells not in thee,
if thou carriest an unbelieving heart in thy bosom. There is never a gospel
sermon thou hearest, but he stands at thy door to be let in.  Take heed of multiplying unkindnesses in
denying him entertainment.  How knowest
thou but God may, finding thy heart shut so oft by unbelief against his knocks,
suddenly seal thee up under final unbelief?

 

[Directions to unbelievers

for attaining faith.]

 

           But possibly thou wilt ask now, how
thou mayest get this precious grace of faith? 
The answer to this question, take in these following directions.  First.
Labour to get thy heart convinced of, and affect­ed with, thy unbelief.  Second.
Take heed of resisting or opposing his help to the Spirit of God, when he
offers his help to the work.  Third. Lift up thy cry aloud in prayer
to God for faith.  Fourth. Converse much with the promises,
and be fre­quently pondering them in thy musing thoughts.  Fifth.
Press and urge thy soul home with that strong obligation that lies on thee, a
poor humbled sinner, to believe.

 

[The unbeliever must
get his heart

convinced of its
unbelief.]

 

           First
Direction. Labour to get thy heart con­vinced of, and affected with,
thy unbelief.  Till this be done,
thou wilt be but sluggish and slighty in thy en­deavours for faith.  A man may be convinced of other sins and
never think of coming to Christ. 
Convince a drunkard of his drunkenness, and upon leaving his drunken
trade his mind is pacified; yea, he blesseth himself in his reformation,
because all the quarrel his conscience had with him was for that particular
sin. But, when the Spirit of God convinceth the creature of his unbelief, he
gets between him and those bur­rows in which he did use to earth and hide
himself. He hath no ease in his spirit from those plasters now, which formerly
had relieved him, and so kept him from coming over to Christ.  Before, it served the turn to bring his
conscience to sleep when it accused him for such a sin, that he had left the
practice of it; and, for the neglect of a duty, that now he had taken it up
without an inquiry into his state, whether good or bad, pardoned or unpardoned.
Thus many make a shift to daub and patch up the peace of their con­sciences,
even as some do to keep up an old rotten house, by stopping in, here a tile and
there a stone, till a loud wind comes and blows the whole house down.  But, when once the creature hath the load of
its unbelief laid upon his spirit, then it is little ease to him to think he is
no drunkard as he was, no atheist in his family—without the worship of God—as
he was.  ‘Thy present state,’ saith the
Spirit of God, ‘is as damning, in that thou art an unbeliever, as if thou wert
these still.’  Yea, what thou wert, thou
art; and wilt be found at the great day, to be the drunkard and atheist, for
all thy seeming reformation, except by an intervening faith thou gainest a new
name.  What though thou beest drunk no
more? yet the guilt re­mains upon thee till faith strikes it off with the blood
of Christ.  God will be paid his debt;
by thee, or Christ for thee; and Christ pays no reckoning for unbelievers.

           Again, as the guilt remains, so the
power of those lusts remains, so long as thou art an unbeliever —however they
may disappear in the outward act. Thy heart is not emptied of one sin, but the
vent stopped by restraining grace.  A
bottle full of wine, close stopped, shows no more what it hath in it than one
that is empty.  And that is thy
case.  How is it possible thou shouldst
truly mortify any one lust, that hast no faith, which is the only victory of
the world? In a word, if under the convincement of thy unbelief thou wilt
find—how little a sin soever now it is thought by thee—that there is more
malignity in it than in all thy other sins. 
Hast thou been a liar? That is a grievous sin indeed.  Hell gapes for every one that loveth and
telleth a lie, Rev.
22:15.  But know, poor
wretch, the loudest lie which ever thou toldest is that which by thy unbelief
thou tellest.  Here thou bearest false
witness against God himself, and tellest a lie, not to the Holy Ghost, as
Ananias did, but a lie of the Holy Ghost; as if not a word were true he saith
in the promises of the gospel.  If ‘he
that believeth setteth to his seal that God is true,’ judge you whether the
unbe­liever makes him not a liar?  Hast
thou been a mur­derer, yea, had thy hand in the blood of saints—the best of
men?  This is a dreadful sin, I
confess.  But by thy unbelief, thou art
a more bloody murderer by how much the blood of God is more precious than the
blood of mere men.  Thou killest Christ
over again by thy unbelief, and treadest his blood under thy feet, yea,
throwest it under Satan's feet to be trampled on by him.

           Question.  But how can unbelief be so great a sin, when
it is not in the sinner’s power to believe?

           Answer.  By this reason the unregenerate person might
wipe off any other sin and shake off the guilt of it with but saying, ‘It is
not my fault that I do not keep this commandment or that, for I have no power
of myself to do them.’  This is true; he
cannot per­form one holy action holily and acceptably. ‘They that are in the
flesh cannot please God,’ Rom.
8:8. But, it is a false inference, that therefore he doth
not sin because he can do no other.

           1. Because his inability is not
created by God, but con­tracted by the creature himself.  ‘God hath made man up­right; but they have
sought out many in­ventions,’ Ecc. 7:29. 
Man had not his lame hand from God. 
No, he was made a creature fit and able for any service his Maker would
please to employ him in. But man crippled himself.  And man’s fault cannot preju­dice God’s right.  Though he hath lost his ability to obey, yet
God hath not lost his power to command. Who, among ourselves, thinks his debtor
discharged, by wasting that estate whereby he was able to have paid us?  It is confessed, had man stood, he should not,
indeed could not, have believed on Christ for salvation, as now he is held
forth in the gospel; but this was not from any disability in man, but from the
unmeetness of such an object to Adam’s holy state. If it had been a duty meet
for God to command, there was ability in man to have obeyed.

           2. Man’s present impotency to yield
obedience to the commands of God, and in particular to this of believing—where
it is promulgated—doth afford him no excuse; because it is not a single
inability, but complicated with an inward enmity against the com­mand.  It is true man can not believe.  But it is as true man will not
believe.  ‘Ye will not come to me, that
ye might have life,’ John
5:40.  It is possible,
yea, ordinary, that a man may, through some feebleness and deficiency of
strength, be disabled to do that which he is very willing to do; and this draws
out our pity.  Such a one was the poor
cripple, who lay so long at ‘the pool,’ John 5:5.  He was willing enough to have stepped down
if he could have but crept thither; or that any other should have helped him
in, if they would have been so kind. 
But, what would you think of such a cripple that can neither go himself
into the pool for healing, nor is willing any should help him in; but flees in
the face of him that would do him this friendly office?  Every unbeliever is this cripple.  He is not only impotent himself, but a
resister of the Holy Ghost that comes to woo and draw him unto Christ.  Indeed, every one that believes believes
will­ingly.  But he is beholden, not to
nature, but to grace, for this willingness. 
None are willing till ‘the day of power’ comes, Ps. 110:3,
in which the Spirit of God ov­ershadows the soul, and by his incubation, as
once upon the waters, new‑forms and moulds the will into a sweet compliance
with the call of God in the gospel.

 

[The Spirit of God must not be resisted

when proffering his
help to the work of faith.]

 

           Second
Direction.  Take heed of
resisting or op­posing the Spirit of God when he offers his help to the work.
If ever thou believest, he must enable thee; take heed of opposing him.  Master workmen love not to be
controlled.  Now, two ways the Spirit of
God may be opposed.  First. When
the creature waits not on the Spirit, where he ordinarily works faith.  Second. When the creature, though he
attends on him in the way and means, yet controls him in his work.

           First.  Take heed thou opposest not the Spirit by
not attending on him in the way and means by which he ordinarily works faith.  Thou knowest where Jesus used to pass, and
his Spirit breathe, and that is in the great gospel ordinance—the ministry of
the word. Christ’s sheep ordinarily conceive when they are drinking the water
of life here.  The hearing of the gospel
it is called, Gal.
3:2, ‘The hearing of faith;’ because by hearing the doctrine
of faith, the Spirit works the grace of faith in them.  This is the still voice he speaks to the
souls of sinners in.  ‘Thine eyes shall
see thy teachers: and thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This is
the way, walk ye in it,’ Isa.
30:20.  Here are God
and man teaching togeth­er.  Thou canst
not neglect man's teaching, but thou resist the Spirit’s also.  It was for some­thing that the apostle
placed them so near, I
Thes. 5:19, 20.  He
bids us ‘quench not the Spirit;’ and in the next words, ‘Despise not
prophesyings.’  Surely he would have us
know that the Spirit is dangerously quenched when prophesying, or preaching of
the gospel, is despised. Now the most notorious way of despising prophesying or
preaching, is to is to turn our back off the ordin­ance and not attend on
it.  When God sets up the ministry of
the word in a place, his Spirit then opens his school, and expects that all who
would be taught for heaven should come thither.  O take heed of play­ing the truant, and absenting thyself from
the ordin­ance upon any unnecessary occasion, much less of casting off the
ordinance.  If he tempts God that would
be kept from sin, and yet will not keep out of the circle of the occasion that
leads to the sin; then he tempts God as much that would have faith, and pre­tends
his desire is that the Spirit should work it, but will not come within the
ordinary walk of the Spirit where he doth the work.  Whether it is more fitting that the scholar should wait on his
master at school to be taught, or that the master should run after the his
truant scholar at play in the field to teach him there, judge you?

           Second.  Take heed that in thy attendance on the
word thou dost not control the Spirit in those several steps he takes in thy
soul in order to the pro­duction of faith. 
Though there are no preparatory works of our own to grace, yet the Holy
Spirit hath his preparatory works whereby he disposeth souls to grace.  Observe therefore carefully the gradual ap­proaches
he makes by the word to thy soul, for want of complying with him in which he
may withdraw in a distaste and leave the work at a sad stand for a time, if not
quite give it over, never more to return to it. We read, Acts 7:23,
how ‘it came into the heart of Moses to visit his brethren the children of
Israel’ —stirred up no doubt by God himself to the journey. There he begins to
show his good-will to them, and zeal for them, in slaying an Egyptian that had
wronged an Israelite; which, though no great matter towards their full
deliverance out of Egypt, yet ‘he supposed’ (it is said, ver. 25)
‘his brethren would have un­derstood,’ by that hint, ‘how that God by his hand
would deliver them.’  But they did not
comply with him, nay, rather opposed him; and therefore he with­drew, and they
hear no more of Moses or their deliv­erance for ‘forty years'’ space, ver. 30.  Thus, may be, the Spirit of God gives thee a
visit in an ordinance —directs a word that speaks to thy particular condi­tion.  He would have thee understand by this,
sinner, how ready he is to help thee out of thy house of bond­age—thy state of
sin and wrath —if now thou wilt hearken to his counsel and kindly entertain his
mo­tions.  [But], carry thyself
rebelliously now against him, and God knows when thou mayest hear of him again
knocking at thy door upon such an errand.

           God makes short work with some in his
judiciary proceedings.  If he finds a
repulse once, sometimes he departs, and leaves a dismal curse behind him as the
punishment of it.  ‘I say unto you, That
none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper,’ Luke 14:24.  They were but once invited, and, for their
first denial, this curse [is] clapped upon their heads.  It is not said they shall never come where
the supper stands on the board, but they shall never ‘taste.’  Many sit under the ordinances, where Christ
in gospel-dishes is set forth admirably, but, through the efficacy of this
curse upon them, never taste of these dainties all their life.  They hear precious truths, but their hearts
are sealed up in unbelief, and their minds made reprobate and injudicious, that
they are not moved at all by them. 
There is a kind of frenzy and madness I have heard of, in which a man
will dis­course soberly and rationally, till you come to speak of some one
particular subject that was the occasion of his distemper, and first broke his
brain; here he is quite out, and presently loses his reason, not able to speak
with any understanding of it.  O how
many men and women are there among us—frequent at­tenders on the word—who, in
any matter of the world are able to discourse very understandingly and ration­ally;
but, when you come to speak of the things of God, Christ, and heaven, it is
strange to see how soon their reason is lost and all understanding gone from
them!  they are not able to speak of
these matters with any judgement.  Truly
I am afraid, in many —who have sat long under the means, and the Spirit hath
been making some attempts on them—th is injudiciousness of mind in the things
of God is but the consequence of that spiritual curse which God hath passed
upon them for resisting these essays of his Spirit.

           I beseech you, therefore, beware of
opposing the Spirit.  Doth he beam any
light from his word into thy understanding, whereby thou, who wert before an ig­norant
sot, comest to something of the evil of sin, the excellency of Christ, and
canst discourse rationally of the truths of the Scripture?  Look now to it, what thou canst with this
candle of the Lord is lighted in thy mind; take heed thou beest not found
sinning with it, or priding thyself in it, lest it goes out in a snuff, and
thou, for ‘rebelling against the light,’ com­est at last to ‘die without
knowledge,’ as is threatened, Job 36:12. 
If the Spirit of God goes yet further, and [so] fortifies the light in
thy understanding that it sets thy conscience on fire with the sense of thy
sins, and apprehensions of the wrath due to them; now, take heed of resisting
him when in mercy to thy soul he is kindling this fire in thy bosom, to keep
thee out of a worse in hell, if thou wilt be ruled by him.  Thou must expect that Satan, now his house
is on fire over his head, will bestir him what he can to quench it; thy danger
is lest thou shouldst listen to him for thy pres­ent ease.  Take heed therefore where thou drawest thy
water with which thou quenchest this fire; that it be out of no well, but out
of the word of God.  In thinking to
quiet thy conscience, thou mayest quench the Spirit of God in thy conscience;
which is the mis­chief the devil longs thou shouldst pull upon thy own
head.  There is more hope of a sick man
when his disease comes out, than when it lies at the heart and nothing is seen
outwardly.  You know how Hazael helped
his master to his sad end, who might have lived for all his disease.  ‘He took a thick cloth, and dipped it in
water, and spread it on his face, so that he died;’ and it follows, ‘and Hazael
reigned in his stead,’ II
Kings 8:15. 
Thus the wretch came to the crown. 
He saw the king like to recover, and he squat­ted his disease, in all
probability, to his heart by the wet cloth, and so by his death made a way for
himself to the throne.  And truly Satan
will not much fear to recover the throne of thy heart—which this present
combustion in thy conscience puts him in great fear of losing—can he but
persuade thee to apply some carnal coolings to it, thereby to quench the Spirit
in his convincing work.  These
convictions are sent thee mercifully in order to thy spiritual delivery, and
they should be as welcome to thee as the kindly bearing pains of a woman in
travail are to her.  Without them she
could not be delivered of her child, nor without these, more or less, can the
new creature be brought forth in thy soul.

           Again, may be the Spirit of God goes
yet further, and doth not only dart light into thy mind, hell-fire into thy
conscience, but heaven-fire also into thy affections.  My meaning is, he from the word displays Christ so in his own
excellencies, and the fitness of him in all his offices to thy wants, that thy
affections begin to work after him.  The
frequent discourses of him, and the mercy of God through him to poor sin­ners,
are so luscious, that thou beginnest to taste some sweetness in hearing of
them, which stirs up some passionate desires, whereby thou art in hearing the
word often sallying forth in such‑like breathings as these, ‘O that
Christ were mine!  Shall I ever be the
happy soul whom God will pardon and save?’ Yea, possibly in the heat of thy
affections thou art cursing thy lusts and Satan, who have held thee so long
from Christ; and sudden purposes are taken up by thee that thou wilt bid adieu
to thy former ways, and break through all the entreaties of thy dearest lusts,
to come to Christ.  O soul! now the
kingdom of God is nigh indeed unto thee. 
Thou art, as I may so say, even upon thy quickening, and therefore,
above all, this is the chief season of thy care, lest thou shouldst
miscarry.  If these sudden desires did
but ripen into a deliberate choice of Christ; and these purposes settle into a
permanent resolution to re­nounce sin and self, and so thou cast thyself on
Christ; I durst be the messenger to joy thee with the birth of this babe of
grace—faith I mean—in thy soul.

           I confess, affections are up and
down; yea, like the wind, how strongly soever they seem to blow the soul one
way at present, [they] are often found in the quite contrary point very soon
after.  A man may be drunk with passion
and affection, as really as with wine or beer. 
And as it is ordinary for a man to make a bargain, when he is in beer or
wine, which he re­pents of as soon as he is sober again; so it is as ordi­nary
for poor creatures, who make choice of Christ and his ways in a sermon—while
their affections have been elevated above their ordinary pitch by some moving
discourse—to repent of all they have done a while after, when the impression of
the word, which heated their affection in hearing, is worn off.  Then they come to themselves again and are
what they were —as far from any such desires after Christ as ever. Content not
therefore thyself with some sudden pangs of affection in an ordinance, but
labour to pre­serve those impressions which then the Spirit makes on thy soul,
that hey be not defaced and rubbed off —like colours newly laid on before they
are dry—by the next temptation that comes. 
This is the caveat of the apostle, Heb. 2:1, ‘Therefore we
ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest at
any time we should let them slip’—or run out as leaking vessels.  May be, at present, thy heart is melting, and
in a flow with sorrow for thy sins, and thou thinkest, Surely now I shall never
give my lust a kind look more—indeed one might wonder, to see the solemn
mournful countenances under a sermon, which of these could be the man or woman
that would afterwards be seen walking hand in hand with those sins they now
weep to hear mentioned—but, as thou lovest thy life, watch thy soul, lest this
prove but ‘as the early dew,’ none of which is to be seen at noon.  Do thou therefore as those do who have stood
some while in a hot bath, out of which when they come they do not presently go
into the open air (that were enough to kill them), but betake themselves
to their warm bed, that they may nourish this kindly heat; and now while their
pores are open, by a gentle sweat breathe out more effectually the remaining
dregs of their distemper.  Thus betake
thyself to thy closet, and there labour to take the advantage of thy present
relenting frame for the more free pouring out of thy soul to God, now the
ordinance hath thawed the tap; and, with all thy soul, beg of God he would not
leave thee short of faith, and suffer thee to mis­carry now he hath thee upon
the wheel, but make thee a ‘vessel unto honour;’ which follows as the third
direction.

 

[The unbeliever must

cry
in prayer for faith.]

 

           Third
Direction. Lift up thy cry aloud in prayer to God for faith.

           Question.  But may an unbeliever pray?  Some think he ought not.

           Answer.  This is ill news, if it were true, even for
some who do believe, but dare not say they are be­lievers.  It were enough to scare them from prayer
too; and so it would be as Satan would have it—that God would have few or none
to vouch him in this sol­emn part of his worship; for they are but the fewest
of believers that can walk to the throne of grace in view of their own
faith.  Prayer, it is medium cultus,
and also medium gratiæ—means, whereby we give worship to God, and also
wait to receive grace from God; so that to say a wicked man ought not to pray,
is to say he ought not to worship God and acknowledge him to be his Maker; and
also, that he ought not to wait on the means whereby he may obtain grace and
receive faith.  ‘Prayer is the soul’s
motion God-ward,’ saith Rev. Mr. Baxter; and to say an unbeliever should not
pray, is to say he should not turn to God, who yet saith to the wicked, ‘Seek
the Lord while he may be found, and call upon him while he is near.’ ‘Desire is
the soul of prayer,’ saith the same learned author, ‘and who dares say to the
wicked, Desire not faith, desire not Christ or God?’  (Right
Method for Peace of Conscience, p. 63)

           It cannot indeed be denied, but that
an unbe­liever sins when he prays.  But
it is not his praying is his sin, but his praying unbelievingly.  And therefore, he sins less in praying than
in neglecting to pray; be­cause, when he prays, his sin lies in the
circumstance and manner, but when he doth not pray, then he stands in a total
defiance to the duty God hath com­manded him to perform, and means God hath ap­pointed
him to use, for obtaining grace.  I must
there­fore, poor soul, bid thee go on, for all these bugbears, and neglect not
this grand duty which lies upon all the sons and daughters of men.  Only go in the sense of thy own vileness,
and take heed of carrying pur­poses of going on in sin with thee to the throne
of grace.  This were a horrible
wickedness indeed.  As if a traitor
should put on the livery which the prince’s servants wear, for no other end but
to gain more easy access to his person, that he might stab him with a dagger he
hath under that cloak.  Is it not enough
to sin, but wouldst thou make God accessory to his own dishonour also?  By this bold enterprise thou dost what lies
in thee to do it.  Should this be thy
temper —which, God forbid —if I send thee to pray, it must be with Peter's
counsel to Simon Magus, ‘Repent of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if
perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee,’ Acts 8:22.
But I suppose thee, to whom now I am directing my advice, to be of a far
different complexion—one brought to some sense of thy deplored state, and so
softened by the word that thou couldst be content to have Christ upon any
terms; only thou art at a loss in thy own thoughts, how such an impotent
creature, yea impudent sinner, as thou hast been, should ever come to believe
on him.  So that it is not the love of
any present sin in thy heart, but the fear of thy past sins in thy conscience,
that keeps thee from believing. Now for thee it is that I would gather the best
encour­agements I can out of the word, and with them strew thy way to the
throne of grace.

           Go, poor soul, to prayer for
faith.  I do not fear a chiding for
sending such customers to God's door. He that sends us to call sinners home
unto him, can­not be angry to hear thee call upon him.  He is not so thronged with such suitors as
that he can find in his heart to send them away with a denial that come with
this request in their mouths.  Christ
complains that sinners ‘will not come unto him that they may have eternal
life;’ and dost thou think he will let any com­plain of him, that they desire
to come, and he is un­willing they should? Cheer up thy heart, poor crea­ture,
and knock boldly; thou hast a friend in God’s own bosom that will procure thy
welcome.  He that could, without any
prayer made to him, give Christ for thee, will not be unwilling, now thou so
earnestly prayest, to give faith unto thee. 
When thou prayest God to give, he commands thee to do.  ‘And this is his commandment, That we should
believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ,’ I John 3:23.  So that, in praying for faith, thou prayest
that his will may be done by thee; yea, that part of his will which
above all he desires should be done—called therefore with an emphasis ‘the work
of God.’  ‘This is the work of God, that
ye believe on him whom he hath sent,’ John 6:29.  As if Christ had said, ‘If ye do not this,
ye do nothing for God;’ and surely Christ knew his Father’s mind best.  O how welcome must that prayer be to God
which falls in with his chiefest design.

           Joab found his request, in the mouth
of the woman of Tekoah, to take as he would have it.  How could it do otherwise, when he asks nothing but what the king
liked better than himself did or could? 
And doth it not please God more, thinkest thou—how strong soever thy
desires for faith are—that a poor humbled sinner should believe, than it can do
to the creature himself?  Methinks, by
this time, thou shouldst begin to promise thyself, poor soul, a happy return of
this thy adventure, which thou hast now sent to heaven.  But for thy further encouragement know that
this grace, which thou so wantest and makest thy moan to God for, is a
principal part of Christ’s purchase. 
That blood, which is the price of pardon, is the price of faith also, by
which poor sin­ners may come to have the benefit of that pardon.  As he has bought off that wrath which man’s
sin had justly kindled in God’s heart against him, so hath also that enmity
which the heart of the creature is filled with against God, and paid for a new
stock of grace, wherewith his bankrupt creature may again set up; so that, poor
soul, when thou goest to pray for faith, look up unto Christ, as having a bank
of grace lying by him, to give out to poor sinners who see they have nothing of
their own to begin with, and in the sense of this their beggary repair to
him.  ‘Thou hast as­cended on high, thou
hast led captivity captive: thou hast received gifts for men; yea, for the
rebellious also, that the Lord God might dwell among them,’ Ps. 68:18.  This is beyond all doubt meant of Christ,
and to him applied, Eph.
4:8.  Now observe,

           First. There is a bank and
treasure of gifts in the hand of Christ—‘Thou hast.’

           Second. Who trusts him with them;
and that is his Father—‘Thou hast received gifts;’ that is, Christ of his
Father.

           Third. When, or upon what
consideration, doth the Father deposit this treasure into Christ’s hands?
‘Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive: thou hast
received,’ &c.  That is, when Christ
had vanquished sin and Satan by his death and rode in the triumphant chariot of
his ascension into heav­en’s glorious city, then did Christ receive
these gifts. They were the purchase of his blood, and the pay­ment of an old
debt which God, before the foun­dation of the world—when the covenant was trans­acted
and struck—promised his Son, upon the con­dition of his discharging sinful
man’s debt with the effusion of his own precious blood unto death.

           Fourth. The persons for
whose use Christ received these gifts—‘for men,’ not angels—for ‘rebellious’
men, not men without sin; so that, poor soul, thy sinful nature and life do not
make thee an excepted person, and shut thee out from receiving any of this
dole.

           Fifth. Observe the nature
of these gifts, and the end they are given Christ for; ‘that God may
dwell in them or with them.’  Now,
nothing but faith can make a soul that hath been rebellious a place meet for
the holy God to dwell in.  This is the
gift indeed he re­ceived all other gifts for, in a manner.  Wherefore the gifts of the Spirit and
ministry, ‘apostles, teachers, pastors,’ &c., but that by these he might
work faith in the hearts of poor sinners? 
Let this give thee bold­ness, poor soul, humbly to press God for that
which Christ hath paid for.  Say, ‘Lord,
I have been a rebel­lious wretch indeed; but did Christ receive nothing for
such?  I have an unbelieving heart; but
I hear there is faith paid for in thy covenant.  Christ shed his blood that thou mightest shed forth thy Spirit on
poor sinners.’  Dost thou think, that
while thou art thus pleading with God, and using Christ’s name in prayer to
move him, that Christ himself can sit within hear­ing of all this, and not
befriend thy motion to his Father? 
Surely he is willing that what God is indebted to him should be paid;
and therefore, when thou beggest faith upon the account of his death, thou
shalt find him ready to join issue with thee in the same prayer to his
Father.  Indeed, he went to heaven on
purpose that poor returning souls might not want a friend at court, when they
come with their humble petitions thither.

 

[The unbeliever
should, for faith,

converse
much with the promises.]

 

           Fourth
Direction.  Converse much with
the promises, and be frequently pondering them in thy musing thoughts.  It is indeed the Spirit’s work, and only
his, to bottom thy soul upon the promise, and give his word a being by faith in
thy heart.  This thou canst not do.  Yet, as fire came down from heaven upon
Elijah's sacrifice, when he had laid the wood in order and gone as far as he
could;  so thou mayest comfortably hope
that then the Spirit of God will come with spiritual light and life to quicken
the promise upon thy heart, when thou hast been consci­onably diligent in
meditating on the promise; if withal thou ownest God in the thing as he
did.  For when he had laid all in order,
he lift up his heart to God in prayer, expecting all from him, I Kings 18:36.  I know no more speedy way to invite the
Spirit of God into our assistance than this. 
As he tempts the devil to tempt him that lets his eyes gaze, or thoughts
gad, upon a lustful object, so he bespeaks the Holy Spirit’s company that lets
out his thoughts upon holy heav­enly objects. 
We need not doubt but the Spirit of God is as willing to cherish any
good motion, as the infernal spirit is to nourish that which is evil.  We find the spouse sitting under the shadow
of her be­loved, as one under an apple‑tree, Song 2:3,
and presently she tells us ‘his fruit was sweet to her taste.’ What doth this
her sitting under his shadow better signify, than a soul sitting under the
thoughts of Christ and the precious promises, that grow out of him as branches
out of a tree?  Do but, O Christian,
place thyself here awhile, and it were strange if the Spirit should not shake
some fruit from one branch or another into thy lap.  Thou knowest not but, as Isaac met his bride when he went into
the fields to meditate, so thou mayest meet thy beloved while walking by thy
meditations in this garden of the promises.

 

[The unbeliever
should press his soul with the

strong
obligation we are under to believe.]

 

           Fifth
Direction.  Press and urge thy
soul home with that strong obligation that lies upon thee, a poor humbled
sinner, to believe.  Possibly, God
hath [so] shamed thee in the sight of thy own con­science for other sins, that
thou loathest the very thought of them, and durst as well run thy head into the
fire as allow thyself in them.  If thou
shouldst wrong thy neighbour in his person, name, or estate, it would kindle a
fire in thy conscience and make thee afraid to look within doors—converse, I
mean, with thy own thoughts—till thou hadst repented of it.  And is faith the only indifferent thing—a
business left to thy own choice, whether thou wilt be so good to thy­self as to
believe or no?  Truly, the tenderness of
con­science which many humbled sinners express in trem­bling at, and smiting
them for, other sins, compared with the little sense they express for this of
unbelief, speaks as if they thought that they offended God in them, and only wronged
themselves by this their un­belief.  O
how greatly thou art deceived and abused in thy own thoughts if these be thy
apprehensions!—yea, if thou dost not think thou dishon ourest God and of­fendest
him in a more transcendent manner by thy unbelief than by all thy other sins!

           What Bernard saith of a hard heart I
may say of an unbelieving heart, illud cor verè durum, quod non trepidat, ad
nomen cordis duri—that is a hard heart indeed, saith he, that trembles not
at the name of a hard heart.  And that
is an unbelieving heart indeed, that trembles not at the name of an unbelieving
heart. Call thyself, O man, to the bar, and hear what thy soul hath to say for
its not closing with Christ, and thou shalt then see what an unreasonable
reason it will give.  It must be either
because thou likest not the terms, or else because thou fearest they are too
good ever to be performed.  Is the first
of these thy reason, because thou likest not the terms on which Christ is
offered?  Possibly, might thou but have
had Christ and thy lusts with him, thou wouldst have been better pleased.  But to part with thy lusts to gain a Christ,
this thou thinkest is ‘a hard saying.’ 
It is strange this should offend thee, which God could not have left out
and truly loved us.  Thou art a sot, a
devil, if thou dost not think thy sins the worst piece of thy misery.  O what is Christ worth in thy thoughts if
thou darest not trust him to recompense the loss of a base lust?  That man values Gold little who thinks he
shall pay too dear for it by throwing the dirt or dung out of his hands, with
which they are full, to receive it. 
Well sinner, the terms for having Christ, it seems, content thee
not.  Ask then thy soul how the terms on
which thou holdest thy lusts like thee? 
Canst thou, doth thou think, better spare the blissful presence of God
and Christ in hell, where thy lusts, if thou hold­est of this mind, are sure
enough to leave thee at last, than the company of thy lusts in heaven, whither
faith in Christ would as certainly bring thee? 
Then take thy choice, and leave it for thy work in hell to repent of thy
folly.  But I should think, if thou
wouldst be so faithful to thyself as to state the case right, and then
seriously acquaint thy soul with it, giving it time and leisure to dwell upon it
daily, that thou wouldst soon come to have better thoughts of Christ, and worse
of thy sins.

           But may be this is not the reason
that keeps thee from believing.  The
terms thou likest highly, but it cannot enter into thy heart to think that ever
such great things as are promised should be performed to such a one as thou
art.  Well, of the two, it is better the
rub in thy way to Christ should lie in the difficulty that thy understanding
finds to conceive, than in the obstinacy of thy will not to receive, what God
in Christ offers.  But this must be
removed also.  And therefore fall to
work with thy soul, and labour to bring it to reason in this particular, for,
indeed, nothing can be more irrational than to object against the reality and
certainty of God's promises.  Two things
well wrought on thy soul, would satisfy thy doubts and scatter thy fears as to
this.

           First.  Labour to get a right notion of God in
thy understanding, and it will not appear strange at all that a great God
should do so great things for poor sinners. 
If a beggar should promise you a thousand pounds a year, you might
indeed slight it, and ask where should he have it?  But if a prince should promise more, you would listen after it,
because he hath an estate that bears proportion to his promise. God is not
engaged for more by promise than infinite mercy, power, and faithfulness can
see discharged.  'Be still, and know
that I am God,’ Ps.
46:10.  Of this psalm
Luther would say, in times of great confusion in the church, ‘Let us sing the
six and fortieth psalm, in spite of the devil and all his instruments.’  And this clause of it, poor humbled soul,
thou mayest sing with comfort, in spite of Satan and sin also, ‘Be still, O my
soul, and know that he who offers thee mercy is God.’ ‘They that know his name
will trust in him.’

           Second.  Peruse well the securities which this
great God gives for the performance of his promise to the believer, and
thou shalt find them so many and great—though his bare word deserves to be
taken for more than our souls are worth—that if we had the most slippery
cheating companion in the world under such bonds for the paying of a sum of
money, we should think it were sure enough; and wilt thou not rest satisfied
when the true and faithful God puts himself under these for thy security, whose
truth is so immutable that it is more possible for light to send forth
darkness, than it is that a lie should come out of his blessed lips?

 

 

 

BRANCH
FOURTH.

 

[Exhortation to believers to preserve

the ‘shield of
faith.’]

 

           I now turn myself to you that are
believers in a double exhortation.  First. Seeing faith is such a choice
grace, be stirred up to a more than ordinary care to preserve it.  Second.
If faith be such a choice grace, and thou hast it, dent not what God hath done
for thee.

 

[Faith is to be preserved
with exceeding care

because of its
pre-eminence among graces.]

 

           Exhortation
First.  Seeing faith is such a
choice grace, be stirred up to a more than ordinary care to preserve it.  Keep that, and it will keep thee and all thy
other graces.  Thou standest by faith;
if that fails thou fallest.  Where shall
we find thee then but under thy enemies’ feet? 
Be sensible of any dan­ger thy faith is in; like that Grecian captain
who, being knocked down in fight, asked as soon as he came to himself where his
shield was.  This he was solicitous for
above anything else.  O be asking, in
this temptation, and that duty, where is thy faith, and how it fares?  This is the grace which God would have us
chiefly judge and value ourselves by, because there is the least danger of
priding in this self-emptying grace above any other.  ‘I say through the grace given unto me, to every man that is
among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to
think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith,’ Rom. 12:3.  There were many gifts which the Corinthians
received from God, but he would have them think of themselves rather by their
faith, and the reason is, that they may ‘think soberly.’

           Indeed all other graces are to be
tried by our faith; if they be not fruits of faith they are of no true
worth.  This is the difference between a
Christian and an honest heathen.  He
values himself by his pa­tience, temperance, liberality, and other moral
virtues which he hath to show above others. 
These he ex­pects will commend him to God and procure him a happiness
after death; and in these he glories and makes his boast while he lives.  But the Christian, he is kept sober in the
sight of these—though they com­mence graces in him that were but virtues in the
heathen—because he hath a discovery of Christ, whose righteousness and holiness
by faith become his; and he values himself by these more than what is in­herent
in him.  I cannot better illustrate this
than by two men—the one a courtier, the other a countryman and a stranger to
the court, both having fair estates, but the courtier the greatest by far.  Ask the country gentleman, that hath no
relation to court or place in the prince’s favour, what he is worth; and he
will tell you as much as his lands and monies amount to. These he values
himself by.  But, ask the courtier what
he is worth; and he—though he hath more land and money by far than the
other—will tell you he values himself by the favour of his prince more than by
all his other estate.  I can speak a big
word, saith he: ‘What my prince hath is mine, except his crown and royalty; his
purse mine to maintain me, his love to embrace me, his power to defend
me.’  The poor heathens, being strangers
to God and his favour in Christ, they blessed themselves in the improvement of
their natural stock, and that treasure of moral virtues which they had gathered
together with their industry, and the restraint that was laid upon their
corruptions by a secret hand they were not aware of. But the believer, having
access by faith into this grace wherein he stands so high in court favour with
God by Jesus Christ, he doth and ought to value himself chiefly by his faith
rather than any other grace. Though none can show these graces in their true
heavenly beauty besides himself, yet, they are not these, but Christ, who is
his by faith, that he blesseth himself in. 
The believer, he can say through mercy, that he hath a heart beautified
with those heavenly graces, to which the heathen’s mock-virtue’s and the proud
self-justiciary’s mock-graces also, are no more to be compared, than the image
in the glass is to the face, or the shadow to the man himself.  He can say he that hath holiness in truth,
which they have but in show and semblance. 
And this grace of God in him he values infinitely above all the world’s
treasure or pleasure—he had rather be the ragged saint than the robed
sinner—yea, above his natural life, which he can be willing to lose, and count
himself no loser, may he thereby but secure this his spiritual life.  But this is not the biggest word a believer
can say.  He is not only partaker of the
divine nature by that princi­ple of holiness infused to him; but he is heir to
all the holiness, yea, to all the glorious perfections, that are in God
himself.  All that God is, hath, or
doth, he hath leave to call his own. 
God is pleased to be called his people's God—‘The God of Israel,’ II Sam. 23:3.
As a man’s house and land bears the owner’s name upon it, so God is graciously
pleased to carry his people’s name upon him, that all the world may know who
are they he belongs to.  Naboth’s field
is called ‘the portion of Naboth,’ II Kings 11:21; so God is
called ‘the portion of Jacob,’ Jer. 10:16.  Nothing hath God kept from his people,
saving his crown and glory.  That,
indeed, he ‘will not give to another,’ Isa. 42:8.  If the Christian wants strength, God would
have him make use of his; and that he may do boldly and confidently, the Lord
calls himself his people's strength, ‘the strength of Israel will not lie,’ I Sam. 15:29.  Is it righ­teousness and holiness he is
scanted in?  Behold, where it is brought
unto his hand—Christ ‘is made unto us righteousness,’ I Cor. 1:30,
called therefore ‘the Lord our righteousness,’ Jer. 33:16.  Is it love and mer­cy they would have?  All the mercy in God is at their
service.  ‘Oh how great is thy goodness,
which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee!’ Ps. 31:19.  Mark the phrase, ‘laid up for them.’  His mercy and good­ness—it is intended for
them.  As a father that lays up such a
sum of money, and writes on the bag, ‘This is a portion for such a child.’  But how comes the Christian to have this
right to God, and all that vast and untold treasure of happiness which is in
him? This indeed is greatly to be heeded. 
It is faith that gives him a good title unto all this.  That which makes him a child makes him an
heir.  Now faith makes him a child of
God, ‘But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of
God, even to them that believe on his name,’ John 1:12.  As there­fore, if you would not call your
birthright into ques­tion, and bring your interest in Christ, and those
glorious privileges that come along with him, under a sad dispute in your
souls, look to your faith.

           Question.  But what counsel, may the Christian say, can
you give for the preserving of my faith?

           Answer.  To this I answer in these following par­ticulars.  First. That which was instrumental to
beget thy faith will be helpful to preserve it, viz. the word of God.  Second. Wouldst thou preserve thy
faith, look to thy conscience.  Third.
Exercise it.  Fourth. Take
special notice of that unbelief which yet remains in thee.  Fifth. If thou wouldst preserve thy
faith, labour to increase it.

 

[Directions to believers for the
preserving of faith.]

 

           First Direction.  That which was instrumental to beget thy
faith will be helpful to preserve it—I mean the word of God.  As it was seed for the former pur­pose in
thy conversion, so now it is milk for the present sustentation of thy
faith.  Lie sucking at this breast, and
that often.  Children cannot suck long,
nor digest much at a time, and therefore need the more frequent returns of
their meals.  Such children are all
believers in this world.  ‘Precept’ must
be ‘upon precept, line upon line, here a little, and there a little.’  The breast [must be] often drawn out for the
nourishing of them up in their spiritual life, or else they cannot
subsist.  It was not ordinary that Moses
should look so well as he did after he had fasted so long, Ex. 34:28, 29.  And truly it is a miraculous faith they must
have who will undertake to keep their faith alive without taking any spiritual
repast from the word.  I have heard of
some children that have been taken from their mother’s breast as soon almost as
born, and brought up by hand, who yet have done well for their natural
life.  But I shall not believe a
creature can thrive in his spiritual life, who cast off ordinances, and weans
himself from the word, till I hear of some other way of provision that God hath
made for the ordinary maintenance of it besides this; and I despair of living
so long as to see this proved. I know some, that we may hope well of, have been
for a time persuaded to turn their backs on the word and ordinances; but they
have turned well hunger-bit to their old fare again, yea, with Naomi's bitter
com­plaint in their mouths, ‘I went out full, and the Lord hath brought me home
again empty,’ Ruth
1:21.  And happy are
them that they are come to their stomachs in this life, before this food be
taken off the table, never more to be set on. 
He that taught Christians to pray for their daily bread, did suppose
they had need of it; and surely he did not mean only or chiefly corporal bread,
who, in the same chapter bids them, ‘But seek ye first the kingdom of God,’ Matt. 6:33.
Well, Christian, prize thou the word, fed savourily on the word, whether it be
dished forth in a sermon at the public, or in a conference with some Christian
friend in private, or in a more secret duty of reading and meditation by thy
solitary self.  Let none of these be
disused, or carnally used, by thee, and with God’s blessing thou shalt reap the
benefit of it in thy faith. When thy stomach fails to the word, thy faith must
needs begin to fail on the word.  O that
Christians, who are so much in complaints of their weak faith, would but turn
their complaints into inquiries why it is so weak and declining!  Is it not because faith hath missed its
wonted meals from the word?  Thou, hap­ly,
formerly broken through many straits to keep thy acquaintance with God in his
word, and wert well paid for that time which thou didst borrow of thy other
occasions for this end, by that sweet temper that thou foundest thy heart in to
trust God and rely upon him in all conditions; but now, since thou hast dis­continued
thy acquaintance with God in those ordin­ances, thou perceivest a sad
change.  Where thou couldst have trusted
God, now thou art suspicious of him. 
Those promises that were able in a mutiny and hubbub of thy unruly
passions, to have hushed and quieted all in thy soul at their appearing in thy
thoughts, have now, alas! but little authority over thy murmuring unbelieving
heart, to keep it in any toler­able order. 
If it be thus with thee, poor soul, thy case is sad; and I cannot give
thee better counsel for thy soul, than that which physicians give men in a
consumption for their bodies.  They ask
them where they were born and bred up, and to that their native air they send them,
as the best means to recover them. Thus, soul, let me ask thee, if thou ever
hadst faith, where it was born and bred up? was it not in the sweet air of
ordinances, hearing, meditating, conferring of the word, and praying over the
word?  Go, poor creature, and get thee
as fast as thou canst into thy native air, where thou didst draw thy first
Chris­tian breath, and where thy faith did so thrive and grow for a time.  No means more hopeful to set thy feeble
faith on its legs again than this.

           Second Direction.  Wouldst thou preserve thy faith, look to
thy conscience.  A good conscience
is the bottom faith sails in.  If the
conscience be wrecked, how can it be thought that faith should be safe?  If faith be the jewel, a good conscience is
the cabinet in which it is kept; and if the cabinet be broken, the jewel must
needs be in danger of losing. Now you know what sins waste the conscience—sins
either deliberately committed, or impudently contin­ued in.

           O take heed of deliberate sins!  Like a stone thrown into a clear stream,
they will so roil thy soul and muddy it, that thou, who even now couldst see
thy interest in the promise, wilt be at a loss and not know what to think of
thyself.  They are like the fire on the
top of the house; it will be no easy matter to quench it.  But, if thou hast been so unhappy as to fall
into such a slough, take heed of lying in it by im­penitency.  The sheep may fall into a ditch, but it is
the swine that wallows in it; and therefore, how hard wilt thou find it,
thinkest thou, to act thy faith on the promise, when thou art, by thy filthy
garments and besmeared countenance, so unlike one of God's holy one’s?  It is dangerous to drink poison, but far
more to let it lie in the body long. 
Thou canst not act thy faith, though a believer, on the promise, so as
to ap­ply the pardon it presents to thy soul, till thou hast renewed thy
repentance.

           Third Direction.  Exercise thy faith, if thou meanest to
preserve it.  We live by faith, and
faith lives by exercise.  As we say of
some stirring men, they are never well but at work—confine them in their bed or
chair and you kill them; so here, hinder faith from working, and you are
enemies to the very life and being of it. 
Why do we act faith so little in prayer, but because we are no more frequent
in it?  Let the child seldom see its
father or mother, and when he comes into their presence he will not make much
after them. Why are we no more able to live on a promise when at a plunge?  Surely because we live no more with the
promise.  The more we converse with the
promise, the more confidence we shall put in it.  We do not strangers as we do our neighbours, in whose company we
are almost every day.  It were a rare way
to secure our faith, yea, to advance it and all our other graces, would we, in
our daily course labour to do all our ac­tions, as in obedience to the command,
so in faith on the promise.  But alas!
how many enterprises are un­dertaken where faith is not called in, nor the
promise consulted with, from one end of the business to the other?  And therefore, when we would make use of
faith in some particular strait, wherein we think our­selves to be more than
ordinary at a loss, our faith itself is at a loss, and to seek, like a servant
who, be­cause his master very seldom employs him, makes bold to be gadding
abroad, and so when his master doth call him upon some extraordinary occasion,
he is out of the way and not to be found. 
O Christian! take heed of letting your faith be long out of work.  If you do not use it when you ought, it might
fail you when you desire most to act it.

           Fourth Direction.  Take special notice of that unbelief which
yet remain in thee and, as it is putting forth daily its head in thy
Christian course, be sure thou loadest thy soul with the sense of it, and
deeply humblest thyself before God for it. 
What thy faith loseth by every act of unbelief, it recovers again by
renewing thy repentance.  David’s faith
was on a mending hand when he could shame himself heartily for his unbelief, Ps. 73:22.  He confesseth how ‘foolish and ignorant’ he
was; yea, saith he, ‘I was as a beast before thee’—so irrational and brutish
his unbelieving thoughts now appeared to him—and, by this ingenuous, humble
confession, the malignity of his distemper breathes out [so] that he is presently
in his old temper again, and his faith is able to act as high as ever.  ‘Thou hast holden me by my right hand.  Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and
afterward receive me to glory,’ ver. 23, 24.  But so long as thy unbelief is sure to grow
upon thee as thou beest unhumbled for it. 
We have the reason why the people of Laish were so bad.  ‘There was no magistrate in the land, that
might put them to shame in anything,’ Judges 18:7. Christian,
thou hast a magistrate in thy bosom com­missioned by God himself to check,
reprove, and shame thee, when thou sinnest. 
Indeed, all things go to wreck in that soul where this [one] doth his
office. Hear therefore what this hath to charge thee with, that thou mayest be
ashamed.  There is no sin dis­honours
God more than unbelief; and this sword cuts his name deepest when in the hand
of a saint.  O to be wounded in the
house of his friends, this goes near the tender heart of God.  And there is reason enough why God should
take this sin so unkindly at a saint’s hand, if we consider the near relation
such a one stands in to God.  It would
grieve an indulgent father to see his own child come into court, and there bear
witness against him and charge him of some untruth in his words, more than if a
stranger should do it; because the testimony of a child, though, when it is for
the vindication of a parent it may lose some credit in the opinion of those
that hear it, upon the suspi­cion of partiality, yet, when against a parent, it
seems to carry some more probability of truth than what is another that is a
stranger says against him; because the band of natural affection with which the
child is bound to his parent is so sacred that it will not be easily
suspected.  He can offer violence to it,
but upon the more inviolable necessity of bearing witness to the truth.

           O think of this, Christian, again and
again—by thy unbelief thou bearest false witness against God! And if thou, a
child of God, speakest no better of thy heavenly Father, and presentest him in
no fairer char­acter to the world, it will be no wonder if it be con­firmed in
its hard thoughts of God, even to final im­penitency and unbelief, when it
shall se how little credit he finds with thee, for all thy great profession of
him and near relation to him.  When we
would sink the reputation of a man the lowest possible, we cannot think of an
expression that will do it more effectually than to say, ‘He is such a one as
those that are nearest to him, even his own children, dare not trust, or will
not give him a good word.’  O Christian,
ask thyself whether thou couldst be willing to be the unhappy instrument to
defame God, and take away his good name in the world.  Certainly thy heart trem­bles at the thought of it if a saint;
and if it doth, then surely thy unbelief, by which thou hast done this so oft,
will wound thee to the very heart; and, bleeding for what thou hast done, thou
wilt beware of taking that sword into thy hand again, with which thou hast
given so many a wound to the name of God and thy own peace.

           Fifth Direction.  If thou wouldst preserve thy faith, labour
to increase it.  None [are] in more
dan­ger of losing what they have than those poor-spirited men who are content
with what they have.  A spark is sooner
smothered than a flame; a drop more easily drunk up and dried than a
river.  The stronger thy faith is, the
safer thy faith is from the enemies’ as­saults.  The intelligence which an enemy hath of a castle's being weakly
provided for a siege, is enough to bring him against it, which else should not
have been troubled with his company. 
The devil is a coward, and he loves to fight on the greatest advantage;
and greater he cannot have than the weakness of the Christian’s faith.  Didst thou but know, Christian, the many
privileges of a strong faith above a weak, thou wouldst never rest till thou
hadst it.  Strong faith comes conqueror
out of those temptations where weak faith is foiled and taken prisoner.  Those Philis­tines could not stand before
Samson in his strength, who durst dance about him scornfully in his weak­ness.  When David’s faith was up how undauntedly
did he look death in the face! I Sam. 30:6.  But, when that was out of heart, O how
poor-spirited is he! —ready to run his head into every hole, though never so
dishonourably, to save himself, I Sam. 21:13.

           Strong faith frees the Christian from
those heart-rending thoughts which weak faith must needs be op­pressed
with.  ‘Thou wilt keep him in perfect
peace, whose mind is stayed on thee,’ Isa. 26:3.  So much faith, so much inward peace and
quietness.  If little faith, then little
peace and serenity, through the storms that our unbelieving fears will
necessarily gather.  If strong faith,
then strong peace; for so the ingemination in the Hebrew, ‘peace, peace,’ imports.
It is confessed that weak faith hath as much peace with God through Christ as
the other hath by his strong faith, but not so much bosom peace.  Weak faith will as surely land the Christian
in heaven as strong faith; for it is impossible the least dram of true grace
should perish, being all incorruptible seed. 
But the weak doubting Christian is not like to have so pleasant a voyage
thither as another with strong faith. Though all in the ship come safe to shore,
yet he that is all the way sea‑sick hath not so comfortable a voy­age as
he that is strong and healthful.  There
are many delightful prospects occur in a journey which he that is sick and weak
loseth the pleasure of.  But the strong
man views all with abundance of delight; and though he wisheth with all his
heart he was at home, yet the entertainment he hath from these do much shorten
and sweeten his way to him.  Thus,
Christian, there are many previous delights which saints travel­ling to heaven
meet on their way thither—besides what God hath for them at their journey’s
end—but it is the Christian whose faith is strong and active on the promise
that finds them.  This is he who sees
the spiritual glories in the promise that ravish his soul with unspeakable
delight; while the doubting Chris­tian's eye of faith is so gummed up with
unbelieving fears that he can see little to affect him in it.  This is he that goes singing all the way
with the promise in his eye; while the weak Christian, kept in continual pain
with his own doubts and jealousies, goes sighing and mourning with a heavy
heart, because his interest in the promise is yet under a dispute in his own
thoughts.  As you would not therefore
live uncomfortably, and have a dull melancholy walk of it to heaven, labour to
strengthen your faith.

           Question.  But may be you will ask, How may I know
whether my faith be strong or weak?  I
answer by these following characters.

 

[Characters by which we may know

whether faith be
strong or weak.]

 

           1. Character.  The more entirely the Christian can rely
on God, upon his naked word in the promise, the stronger his faith is.  He, surely, putteth great­er confidence in a
man that will take his own word or single bond for a sum of money, than he who
dares not, except some others will be bound for him.  When we trust God for his bare promise, we trust him on his own
credit, and this is faith indeed.  He
that walks without staff or crutch is stronger than he that needs these to lean
on.  Sense and reason, these are the
crutches which weak faith leans on too much in its acting.  Now, soul, inquire,

           (1.) Canst thou bear up thyself on
the promise, though the crutch of sense and present feeling be not at hand?  May be thou hast had some discoveries of
God’s love and beamings forth of his favour upon thee; and so long as the sun
shined thus in at thy window thy heart was lightsome, and thou thoughtest thou
shouldst never distrust God more, or listen to thy unbelieving thoughts more;
but how findest thou thy heart now, since those sensible demonstrations are
withdrawn, and may be some frowning providence sent in the room of them?  Dost thou presently dis­pute the promise in
thy thoughts, as not knowing whether thou mayest venture to cast anchor on it
or no?  Because thou hast lost the sense
of his love, does thy eye of faith fail thee also, that thou hast lost the
sight of his mercy and truth in the promise? 
Surely thy eye of faith is weak, or else it would read the promise
without these spectacles.  The little
child, in­deed, thinks the mother is quite lost if she goes but out of the room
where he is; but as it grows older so it will be wiser.  And truly so will the believer also.
Christian, bless God for the experiences and sensible tastes thou hast at any
time of his love; but know, that we cannot judge of our faith, whether weak or
strong, by them.  Experiences, saith
Parisiensis, are like crutches, which do indeed help a lame man to go, but they
do not make the lame man sound or strong; food and physic must do that.  And therefore, Christian, labour to lean
more on the promise, and less on sen­sible expressions of God’s love, whether
it be in the present feeling or past experiences of it.  I would not take you off from improving
these, but [from] leaning on these, and limiting the actings of our faith to these.  A strong man, though he doth not lean on his
staff all the way he goes—as the lame man doth on his crutch, which bears his
whole weight—yet he may make good use of it now and then to defend himself when
set upon by a thief or dog in his way. 
Thus the strong Christian may make good use of his experi­ences in some
temptations, though he doth not lay the weight of his faith upon them, but
[upon] the promise.

           (2.) Canst thou bear thyself upon the
promise, when the other crutch of reason breaks under thee? or does thy
faith ever fall to the ground with it? 
That is a strong faith indeed that can trample upon the im­probabilities
and impossibilities which reason would be objecting against the performance of
the promise, and give credit to the truth of it with a non obstante
—notwithstanding.  Thus Noah fell hard
to work about the ark, upon the credit he gave both the threatening and
promissory part of God's word, and never troubled his head to clear the matter
to his reason how these strange things could come to pass. And it is imputed to
the strength of Abraham’s faith, that he could not suffer his own narrow reason
to have the hearing of the business, when God promised him a Michaelmas[7]
spring—as I may say—a son in his old age. 
‘And being not weak in faith, he consid­ered not his own body now dead,’
Rom. 4:19.  Skilful swimmers are not afraid to go above
their depth, whereas young learners feel for the ground, and are loath to go
far from the bank-side.  Strong faith
fears not when God carries the creature beyond the depth of his reason: ‘We
know not what to do,’ said good Jehoshaphat, ‘but our eyes are upon thee,’ II Chr. 20.
As if he had said, ‘We are in a sea of troubles; beyond our own help, or any
thought how we can wind out of these straits; but our eyes are upon thee.  We dare not give our case for desperate so
long as there is strength in thine arm, tenderness in thy bowels, and truth in
thy promise.’  Whereas weak faith, that
is groping for some footing for reason to stand on, it is taken up how to
reconcile the promise and the crea­ture’s understanding.  Hence those many questions which drop from
its mouth.  When Christ said, ‘Give ye
them to eat,’ Mark
6, his disciples ask him, ‘Shall we go and buy two hundred
pennyworth  of bread?’  As if Christ’s bare word could not spare
that cost and trouble!  ‘Whereby shall I
know this?’ saith Zacharias to the angel, ‘for I am an old man,’ Luke 1:18.  Alas! his faith was not strong enough to
digest, at present, this strange news.

           2. Character.  The more composed and content­ed the
heart is under the changes which providence brings upon the Christian’s state
and condition in the world, the stronger his faith is.  Weak bodies cannot bear the change of
weather so well as healthful and strong ones do.  Hot and cold, fair or foul, cause no great alteration in the
strong man's temper; but alas! the other is laid up by them, or at best goes
complain­ing of them.  Thus strong faith
can live in any cli­mate, travel in all weather, and fadge with any condi­tion.  ‘I have learned, in whatsoever state I am,
there­with to be content,’ Php. 4:11. 
Alas! all Christ’s schol­ars are not of Paul’s form; weak faith hath not
yet got the mastery of this hard lesson. 
When God turns thy health into sickness, thy abundance into penury, thy
honour into scorn and contempt, into what language dost thou now make thy condition
known to him?  Is thy spirit embittered
into discontent, which thou ventest in murmuring complaints? or art thou well
satisfied with God's dealings, so as to acquiesce cheer­fully in thy present
portion, not from an unsensible­ness of the affliction, but approbation of
divine ap­pointment?  If the latter, thy
faith is strong.

           (1.) It shows God hath a throne in
thy heart.  Thou reverencest his
authority and ownest his sover­eignty, or else thou wouldst not acquiesce in
his or­ders.  ‘I was dumb, because thou
didst it,’ Ps.
39:9.  If the blow had
come from any other hand he could not have taken it so silently.  When the servant strike the child, he runs
to his father and makes his complaint; but, though the father doth more to him,
he com­plains not of his father, nor seeks redress from any other, because it
is his father whose authority he re­veres. 
Thus thou comportest thyself toward God; and what but a strong faith can
enable thee?  ‘Be still, and know that I
am God,’ Ps.
46:10.  We must know
God believingly to be what he is, before our hearts will be ‘still.’

           (2.) This acquiescency of spirit
under the dispo­sition of providence shows that thou dost not only stand in
awe of his sovereignty, but hast amiable comfortable thoughts of his mercy and
goodness in Christ.  Thou believest
he can soon, and will certainly make thee amends, or else thou couldst not so
easily part with these enjoyments.  The
child goes willingly to bed when others, may be, are going to supper at a great
feast in the family; but the mother promiseth the child to save something for
him against the morn­ing; this the child believes and is content. Surely thou
hast something in the eye of thy faith which will rec­ompense all thy present
loss; and this makes thee fast so willingly when others feast, be sick when
others are well.  Paul tells us why he
and his brethren in afflic­tion did not faint, II Cor. 4:16, 17.  They saw heaven coming to them while earth
was going from them. ‘For which cause we faint not, ...for our light afflic­tion,
which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal
weight of glory.’

           3. Character.  The more able to wait long for answers to
our desires nd prayers, the stronger faith is.  It shows the tradesman to be poor and needy when he must have
ready money for what he sells. They that are forehanded are willing to give
time, and able to forbear long.  Weak
faith is all for the present; if it hath not presently its desires answered,
then it grows jealous and lays down sad conclusions against itself—his prayer
was not heard, or he is not one God loves, and the like.  Much ado to be kept out of a fainting fit—‘I
said in my haste that all men were liars.’ 
But strong faith that can trade with God for time, yea, waits God’s
leisure—‘He that believeth shall not make haste,’ Isa. 28:16.  He knows his money is in a good hand, and he
is not over-quick to call for it home, knowing well that the longest voyages
have the richest returns.  As rich lusty
ground can forbear rain longer than lean or sandy [ground], which must have a
shower ever and anon, or the corn on it fades; or as a strong healthful man can
fast longer without faintness, than the sickly and weak,—so the Christian of
strong faith can stay longer for spiritual refreshing from the presence of the
Lord, in the returns of his mercy and discoveries of his love to him, than one
of weak faith.

           4. Character.  The more the Christian can lose or suffer
upon the credit of the promise, the stronger his faith is.  If you should see a man part with a fair
inheritance, and leave his kindred and country where he might pass his days in
the embracements of his dear friends and the delicious fare which a plentiful
estate would afford him every day, to follow a friend to the other end of the
world, with hunger and hard­ship, through sea and land, and a thousand perils
that meet him on every hand, you would say that this man had a strong
confidence of his friend, and a dear love to him, would you not?  Nay, if he should do all this for a friend
whom he never saw, upon the bare credit of a letter which he sends to invite
him to come over to him, with a promise of great things he will do for him; now,
to throw all his present possessions and enjoyments at his heels, and willingly
put himself into the condition of a poor pilgrim and traveller, with the loss
of all he hath, that he may come to his dear friend, this adds to the wonder of
his confidence. Such gallant spirits we read of—‘Whom having not seen, ye love;
in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice,’ I Peter 1:6-8.  Observe the place, and you shall find them
in sorrowful plight —‘in heaviness through manifold temptations’—yet, because
their way lies through the sloughs to the en­joyment of God and Christ, whom
they never saw or knew, but by the report the word makes of them, they can turn
their back off the world's friendship and enjoyments—with which it courted them
as well as others—and go with a merry heart through the deep­est of them
all.  Here is glorious faith
indeed.  It is not praising of heaven,
and wishing we were there, but a cheerful abandoning the dearest pleasures, and
embracing the greatest sufferings of the world when called to the same, that
will evidence our faith to be both true and strong.

           5. Character.  The more easily that the Christian can
repel motions, and resist temptations to sin, the stronger is his faith.  The snare or net which holds the little fish
fast, the greater and stronger fish easily breaks through.  The Christian’s faith is strong or weak as
he finds it easy or hard to break from temptations to sin.  When an ordinary temptation holds thee by
the heel, and thou art entangled in like the fly in the spider’s web—much ado
to get off, and per­suade thy heart from yielding—truly it speaks faith very
feeble.  To have no strength to oppose
the as­saults of sin and lust, speaks the heart void of faith. Where faith hath
not a hand to prostrate an enemy, it yet hath a hand to lift up against it, and
a voice to cry out for help to heaven. 
Some way or other faith will show its dislike and enter its protest against
sin.

           And to have little strength to
resist, evidenceth a weak faith. 
Peter's faith was weak when a maid's voice dashed him out of
countenance; but it was well amended when he could withstand, and, with a noble
constancy, disdain the threats of a whole counsel, Acts 4.  Christian, compare thyself with thyself, and
give righteous judgment on thyself.  Do
now thy lusts as powerfully inveigle thy heart, and carry it away from God, as
they did some months or years ago; or canst thou in truth say thy heart is got
above them.  Since thou hast known more
of Christ, and had a view of his spiritual glories, canst thou now pass by
their door and not look in; yea, when they knock at thy door in a temptation,
thou canst shut it upon them, and dis­dain the motion?  Surely thou mayest know thy faith is grown
stronger.  When we see that the clothes
which a year or two ago were even fit for the person, will not now come on him,
they are so little, we may easily be persuaded to believe the person is much
grown since that time.  If thy faith
were no more grown, those temptations which fitted thee would like thee as well
now.  Find but the power of sin die, and
thou mayest know that faith is more lively and vigor­ous.  The harder the blow, the stronger the arm
that gives it.  A child cannot strike
such a blow as a man. Weak faith cannot give such a home-blow to sin as a
strong faith can.

           6. Character.  The more ingenuity and love is in thy
obediential walking, the stronger thy faith is. Faith works by love, and
therefore its strength or weakness may be discovered by the strength or
weakness of that love it puts forth in the Christian’s actings.  The strength of a man's arm that draws a
bow, is seen by the force the  arrow
which he shoots flies with.  And
certainly the strength of our faith may be known by the force our love mounts
to God with.  It is impossible that weak
faith—which is unable to draw the promise as a strong faith can—should leave
such a forcible impression on the heart to love God to aban­don sin, perform duty,
and exert acts of obedience to his command, know thy place, and take it with
hum­ble thankfulness, thou art a graduate in the art of be­lieving.  The Christian’s love advanceth by equal
paces with his faith, as the heat of the day increaseth with the climbing sun;
the higher that mounts towards its meridian, the hotter the day grows.  So the higher faith lifts Christ up in the
Christian, the more intense his love to Christ grows, which now sets him on
work after another sort than he was wont. 
Before, when he was to mourn for his sins, he was acted by a slavish
fear, and made an ugly face at the work, as one doth that drinks some
unpleasing potion; but now acts of repentance are not distasteful and
formidable, since faith hath discovered mercy to sit on the brow of jus­tice,
and undeceived the creature of those false and cruel thoughts of God which
ignorantly he had taken up concerning him. 
He doth not now ‘hate the word repentance’—as Luther said he once did
before he understood that place, Rom. 1:17—but goes about the
work with amiable sweet apprehensions of a good God, that stands ready with the
sponge of his mercy dipped in Christ’s mercy, to blot out his sins as fast as
he scores them up by his humble sorrowful confession of them.  And the same might be said concerning all
other offices of Christian piety. 
Strong faith makes the soul ingenuous. 
It doth not pay the performance of any duty, as an oppressed subject
doth a heavy tax —with a deep sigh, to think how much he parts with —but as
freely as a child would present his father with an apple of that orchard which
he holds by gift from him.  Indeed, the
child when young is much ser­vile and selfish, forbearing what his father
forbids for fear of the rod, and doing what he commands for some fine thing or
other that his father bribes him with, more than for pure love to his person or
obedi­ence to his will and pleasure. 
But, as he grows up and comes to understand himself better, and the
relation he stands in, with the many obligations of it to filial obedience,
then his servility and selfishness wear off, and his FJ`D(¬—natural
affection—will prevail more with him to please his father than any other
argument whatever.  And so will it with
the Christian where faith is of any growth and ripeness.

           7. Character.  To name no more, the more able faith is
to sweeten the thoughts of death, and make it desirable to the Christian, the
stronger his faith. Things that are very sharp or sour will take much sugar
to make them sweet.  Death is one of
those things which hath the most ungrateful taste to the creature’s palate that
can be.  O it requires a strong faith to
make the serious thoughts of it sweet and de­sirable!  I know some in a pet and a passion have pro­fessed great desires
of dying, but it hath been as a sick man desires to change his place, merely
out of a wea­riness of, and discontent with, his present condition, without any
due consideration of what they desire. But a soul that knows the consequences
of death, and the unchangeableness of that state, whether of bliss or misery,
that it certainly marries us to, will never cheerfully call for death in his
cordial desires, till he be in some measure resolved from the promise what
entertainment he may expect from God when he comes into that other world—and
that weak faith will not do without abundance of fears and doubts.  I con­fess, that sometimes a Christian of
very weak faith may meet death with as little fear upon his spirit, yea, more
joy, than one of a far stronger faith, when he is held up by the chin by some
extraordinary comfort poured into his soul from God immediately.  Should God withdraw this, however, his fears
would return upon him, and he feel again his faintings; as a sick man, that
hath been strangely cheered with a strong cordial, does his feebleness when the
efficacy of it is spent.  But we speak
of the ordinary way how Chris­tians come to have their hearts raised above the
fear, yea, into a strong desire, of death, and that is by attaining to a strong
faith.  God can indeed make a feast of a
few loaves, and multiply the weak Chris­tian’s little faith on a sudden, as he
lives on a sick-bed, into a spread table of all varieties of consola­tions.  But I fear that God will not do this miracle
for that man or woman who, upon the expectation of this, contents himself with
the little provision of faith he hath, and labours not to increase his store
against that spending time.

 

[Faith or the graces
of God in a

believer must be acknowledged.]

 

           Exhortation
Second.  We come to the second
word of exhortation we have to speak to the saints:—If faith be such a
choice grace, and thou hast it, deny not what God hath done for thee.  Which is worst, thinkest thou?—the sinner to
hide his sin and deny it, or the Christian to hide and deny his faith?  I confess the first does worst, if we look
to the inten­tion of the persons; for the sinner hides his sin out of a wicked
end.  The doubting soul [however] means
well:—he is afraid to play the hypocrite and be found a liar in saying he hath
what he fears he hath not. But, if we consider the consequence of the
Christian’s dis­owning the grace of God in him, and what use the devil makes of
it for the leading him into many other sins, it will not be so easy to resolve
whose sin is the greatest.  Good Joseph
meant piously when he had thought of putting away secretly his es­poused Mary
—thinking no other but that she had played the whore—and yet, it would have
been a sad act if he had persisted in his thoughts, especially after the angel
had told him that which was conceived in her to be of the Holy Ghost.  Thus thou, poor mourning soul, may be, art
oft thinking to put away thy faith as some by-blow of Satan, and base-born
counterfeit grace begot on thy hypocritical heart by the father of lies.  Well, take heed what thou dost.  Hast thou had no vision—not extraordinary of
and angel or immedi­ate revelation, but ordinary of the Spirit of God—I mean in
his word and ordinances, encouraging thee from those characters which are in
the Scripture given of faith, and the conformity thy faith hath to them, to
take and own thy faith as that which is conceived in thee by the Holy Ghost,
and not a brat formed by the delusion of Satan in the womb of thy own
groundless imagination?  If so, be
afraid of bearing false-witness against the grace of God in thee.  As there is that makes himself rich in faith
that hath nothing of this grace, so there is that maketh himself poor that hath
great store of this riches.  Let us
therefore hear what are the grounds of this thy suspicion, that we may see
whether thy fears or thy faith be imaginary and false.  First. Saith the poor soul, I am
afraid I have no true faith because I have not those joys and consolations
which others have who believe.  Second.
O but can there be any true faith where there is so much doubt­ing as I find in
myself?  Third. O but I fear mine
is a presumptuous faith, and if so, to be sure it cannot be right.

 

[Grounds of suspicion which lead

to a believer’s
denying his faith.]

 

           First Ground of Suspicion.  I am afraid, saith the poor soul, I have no
true faith, because I have not those joys and consolations which others have
who believe.

           Answer First.  Thou mayest have inward peace though not
joy.  The day may be still and calm
though not glorious and sunshine.  Though
the Comforter be not come with his ravishing consolations, yet he may have
hushed the storm of thy troubled spirit; and true peace, as well as joy, is the
consequent of ‘faith un­feigned.’

           Answer Second.  Suppose thou hast not yet at­tained so much as
to this inward peace, yet know, thou hast no reason to question the truth of
thy faith for want of this.  We have
peace with God as soon as we believe, but not always with ourselves.  The par­don may be past the prince’s hand
and seal, and yet not put into the prisoner’s hand.  Thou thinkest them too rash, dost thou not, who judged Paul a
murderer by the viper that fastened on his hand?  And what art thou who condemnest thyself for an unbeliever, be­cause
of those troubles and inward agonies which may fasten for a time on the spirit
of the most gracious child God hath on earth?

           Second Ground of Suspicion.  O but can there be any true faith where
there is so much doubting as I find in myself?

           Answer.  There is a doubting which the Scripture
opposeth to the least degree of faith. 
Our blessed Saviour tells them what wonder they shall do if they believe
and ‘doubt not,’ Matt.
21:21; and, Luke 17:6, he tells his
disciples if they have faith as a grain of mustard-seed,’ they shall do as
much.  That which is a faith without
doubting in Matthew is faith as a grain of mustard-seed in Luke.  But again, there is a doubt­ing which the
Scripture opposeth not to the truth of faith, but to the strength of faith, ‘O
thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?’ Matt. 14:31.  They are the words of Christ to sinking
Peter, in which he so chides his doubting as yet to acknowledge the truth of
his faith, though weak.  All doubting is
evil in its nature, yet some doubting, though evil in itself, doth evidence
some grace that is good to be in the person so doubting; as smoke proves some
fire.  And peev­ishness and pettishness
in a sick person that before lay senseless, is a good sign of some mending,
though itself a thing bad enough.  But
the thing here desir­able, I conceive, would be to give some help to the
doubting soul, that he may what his doubting is symptomatical of; whether of
true faith, though weak, or of no faith. 
Now for this I shall lay down four
characters of those doubtings which accompany true faith.

           1. Character. The doubtings of
a true believer are attended with much shame and sorrow of spirit, even for
those doubtings.  I appeal to thy
conscience, poor doubting soul, whether the consideration of this one sin doth
not cost thee many a salt tear and heavy sigh which others know not of?  Now, I pray, from whence come  these? 
Will unbelief mourn for unbe­lief? or sin put itself to shame?  No, sure, it shows there is a principle of
faith in the soul that takes God's part, and cannot see his promises and name
wronged by unbelief without protesting against it, and mourning under it,
though the hands of this grace be too weak at present to drive the enemy out of
the soul.  The law cleared the damsel
that ‘cried’ out ‘in the field,’ and so will the gospel thee who sincerely
mournest for thy unbelief, Deut. 22:27.  That holy man, whoever he was, was far gone
in his doubting disease, Ps.
77.  How many times
do we find his unbelief putting the mercy and faithfulness of God—which should
be beyond all dispute in our hearts—to the question and dubious vote in his
distempered soul? He might with as much reason have asked his soul whether
there was a God? as whether his mercy was clean gone and his promise failed?
yet so far did his fears in this hurry carry him aside.  But at last you have him acknowledging his
folly, ver.
10, ‘And I said this in my infirmity.’  This I may thank thee for, O my unbelief!
thou enemy of God and my soul, thou wilt be puzzling me with needless fears,
and make me think and speak so unworthily of my God.  This proved there was faith at the bottom of his unbelief.

           2. Character. The doubtings of
a sincere believer are accompanied with ardent desires those things which it
most calls in question and doubts of. 
The weak believer, he questions whether God loves him or no, but he
desires it more than life.  And this is
the language of a gracious soul, ‘Thy lovingkindness is better than life,’ Ps. 63:3.  He doubts whether Christ be his; yet, if you
should ask him what value he sets upon Christ, and what he would give for
Christ, he can tell you, and that truly, that no price should be too great if he
were to be bought.  No condition that
God offers Christ upon appears to him hard, but all easy and cheap.  And this is the judgment which only the
believing soul can have of Christ. 
‘Unto you therefore which believe, he is precious,’ I Peter 2:7.  In a word, he doubts whether he be truly
holy or only counterfeit; but his soul pants and thirsts after those graces
most which he can see least.  He to him
should be the more welcome messenger that brings him the news of a broken
heart, than another that tells him of a whole crown and kingdom fallen to
him.  He dis­putes every duty and action
he doth, whether it be ac­cording to the rule of the word; and yet he passion­ately
desires that he could walk without one wry step from it; and doth not quarrel
with the word because it is so strict, but with his heart because it is so
loose. And how great a testimony these give of a gracious frame of heart!  See Ps. 119:20, 140,
where David brings these as the evidence of his grace.  Canst thou there­fore, poor soul, let out
thy heart strongly after Christ and his graces, while thou dost not see thy
interest in either?  Be of good cheer,
thou art not so great a stranger with these as thou thinkest thyself.  These strong desires are the consequent of
some taste thou hast had of them already; and these doubts may pro­ceed, not
from an absolute want, as if thou wert wholly destitute of them, but [from] the
violence of thy desires, which are not satisfied with what thou hast.  It is very ordinary for excessive love to
beget excessive fear, and that groundless. 
The wife, because she loves her husband dearly, fears when he is abroad
she shall never see him more.  One while
she thinks he is sick; another while killed; and thus her love torments her
without any just cause, when her hus­band is all the while well and on his way
home.  A jewel of great price, or ring
that we highly value, if but laid out of sight, our extreme estimate we set on
them makes us presently think them lost. 
It is the nature of passions in this our imperfect state, when strong
and violent, to disturb our reason, and hide things from our eye which else
were easy to be seen.  Thus many poor
doubting souls are looking and hunting to find that faith which they have
already in their bosoms—[it] being hid from them merely by the vehemency of
their desire of it, and [by the] fear they should be cheated with a false one
for a true.  As the damsel ‘opened not
the gate for gladness’ to Peter Acts 12:14—her joy at [the
time then] present made her forget what she did—so the high value the poor
doubting Christian sets on faith, together with an ex­cess of longing after it,
suffer him not to entertain so high an opinion of himself as to think he at
present hath that jewel in his bosom which he so infinitely prizeth.

           3. Character.  The doubtings of a truly believing soul make
him more inquisitive how he may get what he sometimes he fears he hath not.  Many sad thoughts pass to and fro in his
soul whether Christ be his or no, whether he may lay claim to the promise or
no; and these cause such a commotion in his spirit, that he cannot rest till he
come to some resolution in his own thoughts from the word concerning this great
case.  Therefore, as Ahasuerus, when he
could not sleep, called for the records and chronicles of his kingdom, so the
doubting the doubting soul betakes himself to the records of heaven—the word of
God in the Scripture—and one while he is reading there, another while looking
into his own heart, if he can find anything that answers the characters of
Scrip­ture—faith, as the face in the glass doth the face of man.  David, Ps. 77, when he was at a
loss what to think of himself, and many doubts did clog his faith —insomuch
that the thinking of God increased his trouble—did not sit down and let the
ship drive, as we say, not regarding whether God loved him or no. No; he
‘communes with his own heart, and his spirit makes diligent search.’  Thus it is with every sincere soul under
doubtings.  He dares no more sit down
contented in that unresolved condition, than one who thinks he smells fire in
his house dares settle himself to sleep till he hath looked into every room and
cor­ner, and satisfied himself that all is safe, lest he should be waked with
the fire about his ears in the night. 
The poor doubting soul [is indeed] much more afraid, lest it should
awake with hell‑fire about it; whereas a soul in a state and under the
power of unbelief, is secure and careless. 
The old world did not believe the threatening of the flood, and they
spend no thoughts about the matter.  It
is at their doors and windows before they had used any means how to escape it.

           4. Character.  In the midst of the true believer’s doubtings
there is an innitency of his heart on Christ, and a secret purpose still to
cleave to him.  At the same time
that Peter's feet were sinking into the waters, he was lifting up a prayer to
Christ; and this proved the truth of his faith, as the other its weak­ness.  So Jonah, he had many fears, and sometimes
so predominant, that as bad humours settle into a sore, so they gathered into a
hasty unbelieving conclusion, yet then his faith had some little secret hold on
God. ‘Then I said, I am cast out of thy sight; yet I will look again toward thy
holy temple,’ Jonah
2:4.  And, ‘When my
soul fainted within me I remembered the Lord,’ ver. 7.  Holy David also, though he could not rid his
soul of all those fears which got into it through his weak faith, as water into
a leaking ship, yet he hath his hand at the pump, and takes up a firm
resolution against them.  ‘What time I
am afraid, I will trust in thee,’ Ps. 56:3.  The doubting Christian sinks, but, as a
traveller in a slough where the bottom is firm, and so recovers himself.  But the unbeliever, he sinks in his fears,
as a man in a quick-sand, lower and lower till he be swallowed up into
despair.  The weak Chris­tian’s doubting
is like the wavering of a ship at anchor —he is moved, yet not removed from his
hold on Christ; but the unbeliever's, like the wavering of a wave, which,
having nothing to stay it, is wholly at the mercy of the wind.  ‘Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For
he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed,’ James 1:6.

           Third Ground of Suspicion.  O but, saith another, I fear mine is a
presumptuous faith, and if so, to be sure it cannot be right.

           Answer.  For the fuller assoiling [i.e.
clearing] this objection, I shall lay down three characters of a presumptuous
faith.

           1. Character.  A presumptuous faith is an easy faith.  It hath no enemy of Satan or our own corrupt
hearts to oppose it, and so, like a stinking weed, shoots up and grows rank on
a sudden.  The devil never hath the
sinner surer than when dreaming in this fool’s paradise, and walking in his
sleep, amidst his vain fantastical hopes of Christ and salvation. And therefore
he is so far from waking him, that he draws the curtains close about him, that
no light nor noise in his conscience may break his rest.  Did you ever know the thief call up him in
the night whom he meant to rob and kill? 
No, sleep is his advantage. But true faith he is a sworn enemy against.  He persecutes it in the very cradle, as
Herod did Christ in the cratch;[8]
he pours a flood of wrath after it as soon as it betrays its own birth by
crying and lamenting after the Lord.  If
thy faith be legitimate Naphtali may be its name; and thou mayest say, ‘With
great wrestlings have I wrestled with Satan and my own base heart, and at last
have prevailed.’  You know the answer
that Rebecca had when she inquired of God about the scuffle and striving of the
children in her womb, ‘Two nations,’ God told her, ‘were in her womb.’  If thou canst find the like strife in thy
soul, thou mayest comfort thyself that it is from two con­trary principles,
faith and unbelief, which are lusting one against another; and thy unbelief,
which is the elder —however now it strives for the mastery—shall serve the
younger.

           2. Character.  Presumptuous faith is lame of one hand;
it hath a hand to receive pardon and heaven from God, but no hand to give up
itself to God.  True faith hath the use
of both her hands.  ‘My beloved is
mine’—there the soul takes Christ; ‘and I am his’ —there she surrenders herself
to the use and service of Christ.  Now,
didst thou ever pass over thyself freely to Christ?  I know none but will profess they do this.  But the presumptuous soul, like Ananias,
lies to the Holy Ghost, by keeping back part, yea, the chief part, of that he
promised to lay at Christ’s feet.  This
lust he sends out of the way, when he should deliver it up to justice; and that
creature enjoyment he twines about, and cannot persuade his heart to trust God
with the disposure of it, but cries out when the Lord calls for it, ‘Benjamin
shall not go.’  Life is bound up in it,
and if God will have it from him he must take it by force, for there is no hope
of gaining his consent. Is this the true picture of thy faith, and [of the]
temper of thy soul? then verily thou blessest thyself in an idol, and mistake a
bold face for a believing heart. But, if thou beest as willing to be faithful
to Christ, as to pitch thy faith on Christ; if thou countest it as great a
privilege that Christ should have a throne in thy heart and love, as that thou
shouldst have a place and room in his mercy; in a word, if thou beest
plain-hearted and wouldst not hide a sin, nor lock up a creature enjoyment,
from him, but desirest freely to give up thy dearest lust to the gibbet, and
thy sweetest enjoyments to stay with, or go from thee, as thy God thinks fit to
allow thee—though all this be with much regret and discontent from a malignant
party of the flesh within thee—thou provest thyself a sound believer; and the
devil may as well say that himself believeth as that thou presumest.  If this be to pre­sume, be thou yet more
presumptuous.  Let the devil nickname
thee and thy faith as he pleaseth; the rose-water is not the less sweet because
one writes ‘worm­wood water’ on the glass. 
The Lord knows who are his, and will own them for his true children, and
their graces for the sweet fruits of his Spirit, though a false title be set on
them by Satan and the world, yea, sometimes by believers on themselves.  The father will not deny his child because
he is a violent fit of a fever talks idle and denies him to be his father.

           3. Character.  The presumptuous faith is a sap­less and
unsavoury faith.  When an unsound
heart pretends to greatest faith on Christ, even then it finds little savour,
tastes little sweetness in Christ.  No,
he hath his old tooth in his head, which makes him relish still the gross food
of sensual enjoyments above Christ and his spiritual dainties.  Would he but freely speak what he thinks, he
must confess that if he were put to his choice whether he would sit with Christ
and his children, to be entertained with the pleasures that they enjoy from
spiritual communion with him in his promises, ordinances, and holy ways; or had
rather sit with the servants, and have the scraps which God al­lows the men of
the world in their full bags and bellies of carnal treasure; that he would
prefer the latter before the former.  He
brags of his interest in God, but he care not how little he is in the presence
of God in any duty or ordinance. 
Certainly, if he were such a favourite as he speaks, he would be more at
court than he is.  He hopes to be saved,
he saith, but he draws not his wine of joy at this tap.  It is not the thoughts of heaven that
comfort him; but what he hath in the world and of the world, these maintain his
joy.  When the world's vessel is out,
and the creature joy spent, alas, the poor wretch can find little relief from,
or relish in, his pretended hopes of heaven and interest in Christ, but he is
still whining after the other.  Whereas
true faith alters the very creature’s palate. 
No feast so sweet to the believer as Christ is. Let God take all other
dishes off the board and leave but Christ, he counts his feast is not gone—he
hath what he likes; but let all else stand, health, estate, friends, and what
else the world sets a high value on, if Christ be withdrawn he soon misseth his
dish, and makes his moan, and saith, ‘Alas! who hath taken away my Lord?’  It is Christ that seasons these and all his
enjoyments, and makes them savoury meat to his palate; but without him they
have no more taste than the white of an egg without salt.

 

 

 

 

 

[1]Precedaneous: Preceding;
antecedent; anterior.  From Webster’s
1828 Dictionary. — SDB

 

[2]Demit: dismiss; resign, to
withdraw from office or membership. 
From Webster’s — SDB

[3]Affiance, trust or faith.

[4]Innitency, act of leaning on.

[5]Can anyone, at this
point, avoid thinking of the fol­lowing verses from Hebrews? — SDB

 

17Wherein God, willing
more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his
counsel, confirmed it by an oath: 18that by two immutable
things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a
strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set
before us: 19which hope we have as an anchor of the soul,
both sure and stedfast, and which entereth into that within the veil; 20whither
the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus, made an high priest for
ever after the order of Melchisedec.

— Hebrews 6

[6]Jointure — 1. [Now Rare]
an act or instance of joining; 2. Law a) an arrangement by which
a husband grants real property to his wife for her use after her death.  b) the property thus settled; widow's
portion c) [Obs] the holding of property jointly.

— From Webster’s

[7]Michaelmas — the feast of the
archangel Michael, cele­brated chiefly in England, on September 29: also Mi­chaelmas
Day. — from Webster’s.  SDB

[8]Cratch, i.e. manger or crib.

DIRECTION VIII.—SECOND
GENERAL PART.

 

[Argument pressing the exhortation.]

 

‘Whereby ye shall be
able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked’  (Eph. 6:16)

 

           We
have done with the exhortation, and now come to the second general part
of the verse, viz. a powerful argument pressing this exhortation,
contained in these words—‘Whereby ye shall be able to quench all the fiery
darts of the wicked.’  ‘Ye shall be
able.’  Not an uncertain ‘may be ye
shall;’ but he is peremptory and absolute—‘ye shall be able.’  But what to do? ‘able to quench’—not
only to resist and repel, but ‘to quench.’  But what shall they ‘quench?’  Not ordinary temptations only, but the worst arrows the
devil hath in his quiver—‘fiery darts;’ and not some few of them, but 'all the
fiery darts of the wicked.’  In
this second general there are two particulars.  first.  The saint’s enemy described—‘The
wicked.’  second.  The power and puissance of faith over the enemy—‘Ye shall
be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.’

 

 

 

Division First.—The Saint’s Enemy Described.

 

‘The
Wicked.’

 

           Here
we have the saint’s enemy described in three particulars.  First.
In their nature—‘wicked.’  Second. In their unity—‘wicked,’ or
‘wicked one,’ J@Ø B@<ZD@Ø, in the
singular number.  Third. In their warlike furniture and
provision, with which they take the field against the saints—‘darts,’ and they
are ‘fiery.’

 

[The saints enemy
described
by their nature.]

 

           First.  The saint’s enemy is here described by their nature—‘wicked.’  Something I have said of this, ver. 12 where Satan
is called ‘spiritual wickednesses.’[1]  I shall at present therefore pass it
over with the lighter hand. 
Certainly there is some special lesson that God would have his people
learn even from this attribute of the devil and his limbs—for the whole pack of
devils and devilish men are here intended —that they are represent­ed to the
saint’s considera­tion by this name so oft as ‘wicked.’  I shall content myself with two ends, that I conceive God aims at
by this name.

           First
End.  They are called ‘wicked,’
as an odi­ous name whereby God would raise his children’s stomachs into a
loathing of sin above all things in the world, and provoke their pure
souls as to hatred and detestation of all sin, so [to] a vigorous
resistance of the devil and his instruments, as such, who are wicked; which
is a name that makes him detestable above any other.  God would have us know, that when he himself would speak the
worst he can of the devil, he can think of no name for the purpose like this—to
say he is ‘the wicked one.’  The
name which exalts God highest, and is the very excellency of all his other
excellencies, is, that he is ‘the holy One,’ and ‘none holy as the Lord.’  This therefore gives the devil the
blackest brand of infamy, that he is ‘the wicked one,’ and none wicked to that
height besides himself. Could holiness be separated from any other of God’s
attributes—which is the height of blasphemy to think —the glory of them would
be departed.  And could the devil’s
wickedness be removed from his torments and misery, the case would be
exceedingly altered. We ought then to pity him whom now we must no less than
hate and abominate with a perfect hatred.

           1.
Consider this, all ye who live in sin, and blush not to be seen in the
practice of it.  O that you
would behold your faces in this glass, and you would see whom you look
like!  Truly, no other than the
devil himself and in that which makes him most odious, which is his wickedness.  Never more spit at the name of the
devil, nor seem to be scared at any ill-shapen picture of him; for thou
carriest a far more ugly one —and the truest of him that is possible—in thy own
wicked bosom.  The more wicked the
more like the devil; who can draw the devil's picture like himself? If thou
beest a wicked wretch thou art of the devil himself.  ‘Cain,’ it is said, ‘was of that wicked one,’ I John 3:12.  Every sin thou committest is a new line
that the devil draws on thy soul. 
And if the image of God in a saint—which the Spirit of God is drawing
for many years together in him—will be so curious a piece when the last line
shall be drawn in heaven, O think, then, how frightful and horrid a creature
thou wilt appear to be, when after all the devil’s pains here on earth to
imprint his image upon thee, thou shalt see thyself in hell as wicked to the
full as a wicked devil can make thee.

           2.
Consider this, O ye saints, and bestow your first pity on those poor forlorn
souls that are under the power of a wicked devil.  It is a lamentable judg­ment to live under a wicked government,
though it be but of men.  For a
servant in a family to be under a wicked master is a heavy plague.  David reckons it among other great
curses.  ‘Set thou a wicked man
over him,’ Ps.
109:6.  O what is it then to have a wicked
spirit over him!  He would show
himself very kind to his friend that should wish him to be the worst slave in
Turkey, rather than the best servant of sin or Sa­tan.  And yet see the folly of men.  Solomon tells us, ‘When the wicked bear
rule, the people mourn,’ Prov.
29:2.  But when a wicked devil rules, poor
besotted sinners laugh and are merry. 
Well, you who are not out of your wits so far, but know sin’s service to
be the creature's utmost misery, mourn for them that go themselves laughing to
sin, and by sin to hell.

           And
again, let it fill thy heart, Christian, with zeal and indignation against
Satan in all his tempta­tions. 
Remember he is wicked, and he can come for no good.  Thou knowest the happiness of serving a
holy God.  Surely, then, thou hast
an answer ready by thee against this wicked one comes to draw thee to sin.  Canst thou think of fouling thy hands
about his base nasty drudgery, after they have been used to so pure and fine
work as the service of thy God is? Listen not to Satan’s motions except thou
hast a mind to be ‘wicked.’

           Second
End.  They are called ‘wicked,’
as a name of contempt, for the encouragement of all be­lievers in their
combat with them.  As if God
had said, ‘Fear them not; they are a wicked company you go against’—cause, and
they who defend it, both ‘wicked.’ 
And truly, if the saints must have enemies, the worse they are the
better it is.  It would put mettle
into a coward to fight with such a crew. 
Wickedness must needs be weak. 
The devils’ guilt in their own bosoms tells them their cause is lost
before the battle is fought.  They
fear thee, Christian, because thou art holy, and therefore thou needest not be
dismayed at them who are wicked. 
Thou lookest on them as subtle, mighty, and many, and then thy heart
fails thee.  But look on all these subtle
mighty spirits as wicked ungodly wretches, that hate God more than thee, yea
thee for thy kindred to him, and thou canst not but take heart.  Whose side is God on that thou art
afraid?  Will he that rebuked kings
for touching his anointed ones and doing them harm in their bodies and estates,
stand still, thinkest thou, and suf­fer these wicked spirits to attempt the
life of God himself in thee, thy grace, thy holiness, without com­ing in to thy
help?  It is impossible.

 

[The saint’s enemy
described
by their unity.]

 

           Second.  The saint’s enemy is set out by their unity—‘fiery darts
of the wicked’—J@Ø B@<ZD@Ø ‘of the
wicked one.’  It is as if all were
shot out of the same bow, and by the same hand; as if the Christian’s fight
were a single duel with one single enemy. 
All the legions of devils, and multitudes of wicked men and women, make
but one great enemy.  They are all
one mystical body of wickedness; as Christ and his saints [are] one mystical
holy body.  One Spirit acts Christ
and his saints; so one spirit acts devils, and ungodly men his limbs.  The soul is in the little toe; and the
spirit of the devil in the least of sinners.  But I have spoken something of this subject elsewhere.[2]

 

[The saint’s enemy
described

by
their warlike provision.]

 

           Third.  The saint’s enemy is here described by their warlike
furniture and provision with which they take the field against the saints—‘darts,’
and those of the worst kind, ‘fiery darts.’

           First.
Darts.  The devil’s temptations
are the darts he useth against the souls of men and women. They may fitly be so
called in a threefold respect.

           1.
Darts or arrows are swift. 
Thence is our usual expression, ‘As swift as an arrow out of a
bow.’  Light­ning is called God’s
arrow, because it flies swiftly. 
‘He sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out lightnings,
and discomfited them,’ Ps.
18:14,
that is, lightning like arrows. 
Satan’s temptations flee like a flash of lightning—not long of
coming.  He needs no more time than
the cast of an eye for the despatch of a temptation.  David’s eye did but una­wares fall upon Bathsheba, and the
devil’s arrow was in his heart before he could shut his casement.  Or the hearing of a word or two [will
suffice].  Thus, when David's
servants had told what Nabal the churl said, David's choler was presently up—an
arrow of revenge wounded him to the heart.  What quicker than a thought?  Yet how oft is that a temptation to us? one silly thought
riseth in a duty, and our hearts, before intent upon the work, are on a sudden
carried away, like a spaniel after a bird that springs up before him as he goes
after his master.  Yea, if one
tempta­tion speeds not, how soon can he send another after it!—as quick as the
nimblest archer.  No sooner than
one arrow is delivered, but he hath another on the string.

           2.
Darts or arrows fly secretly. 
And so do temptations.

           (1.)
The arrow oft comes afar off. 
A man may be wounded with a dart and not see who shot it.  The wicked are said, to shoot their
arrows ‘in secret at the perfect,’ and then, ‘they say, Who shall see them?’ Ps 64:4, 5.  Thus Satan lets fly a temptation.  Sometimes he useth a wife’s tongue to
do his errand; another while he gets behind the back of a husband, friend,
servant, &c., and is not seen all the while he is doing his work.  Who would have thought to have found a
devil in Peter tempting his master, or suspected that Abraham should be his
instrument to betray his be­loved wife into the hands of a sin?  Yet it was so. Nay, sometimes he is so
secret that he borrows God’s bow to shoot his arrows from, and the poor
Christian is abused, thinking it is God chides and is angry, when it is the
devil that tempts him to think so, and only counterfeits God’s voice.  Job cries out of ‘the arrows of the
Almighty,’ how ‘the poison of them drank up his spirit,’ and of ‘the terrors of
God that did set themselves in array against him,’ Job 6:4, when it
was Satan all the while that was practicing his malice and playing his pranks
upon him.  God was friends with
this good man, only Satan begged leave—and God gave it for a time—thus to
affright him.  And poor Job cries
out, as if God had cast him off and were become his enemy.

           (2.)
Darts or arrows, they make little or no noise as they go.  They cut their passage through the air,
without telling us by any crack or report, as the can­non doth, that they are
coming.  Thus insensibly doth
temptation make its approach;—the thief is in before we think of any need to
shut the doors.  The wind is a creature
secret in its motion, of which our Saviour saith, ‘We know not whence it cometh
and whither it goeth,’ John
3:8,
yet, ‘we hear the sound thereof,’ as our Saviour saith in the same place.  But temptations many times come and
give us no warning by any sound they make.  The devil lays his plot so close, that the soul sees not his
drift, observes not the hook till he finds it in his belly.  As the woman of Tekoah told her tale so
handsomely, that the king passeth judgement against himself in the person of
another before he smelt out the business.

           3.
Darts have a wounding killing nature, espe­cially when well headed and
shot out of a strong bow by one that is able to draw it.  Such are Satan’s temp­tations—headed
with desperate malice, and drawn by a strength no less than angelical; and this
against so poor a weak creature as man, that it were impossible, had not God
provided good armour for our soul, to outstand Satan’s power and get safe to
heaven. Christ would have us sensible of their force and danger, by that
petition in his  prayer which the
best of saints on this side heaven have need to use—‘Lead us not into
temptation.’  Christ was then but
newly out of the list, where he had tasted Satan’s tempting skill and strength;
which, though beneath his wisdom and pow­er to defeat, yet well he knew it was
able to worst the strongest of saints. 
There was never any besides Christ that Satan did not foil more or
less.  It was Christ’s prerogative
to be tempted, but not lead into temptation.  Job, one of the chief worthies in God’s army of saints, who,
from God’s mouth, is a none­such, yet was galled by these arrows shot from
Satan’s bow, and put to great disorder. 
God was fain to pluck him out of the devil’s grip, or else he would have
been quite worried by that lion.

           Second.  Satan’s warlike provision is not only
darts, but ‘fiery darts.’  Some
restrain these fiery darts to some particular kind of temptation, as despair,
blasphemy, and those which fill the heart with terror and horror.  But this, I conceive, is too strait;
but faith is a shield for all kind of temptations—and indeed there is none but
may prove a ‘fiery’ tempta­tion; so that I should rather incline to think all
sorts of temptations to be comprehended here, yet so as to respect some in an
especial manner more than others. These shall be afterwards instanced in.

           Question.  Why are Satan’s darts called fiery
ones?

           Answer
1.  They may be said to be
‘fiery,’ in re­gard of that fiery wrath with which Satan shoots them.
They are the fire this dragon spits, full of indignation against God and his
saints.  Saul, it is said,
‘breathed out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord,’ Acts 9:1.  As one that is inwardly inflamed, his
breath is hot—a fiery stream of persecuting wrath came as out of a burning
furnace from him.  Tempta­tions are
the breathings of the devil’s wrath.

           Answer
2.  They may be said to be
‘fiery,’ in re­gard of the end they lead to, if not quenched; and that
is hell-fire.  There is a spark of
hell in every tempta­tion; and all sparks fly to their element.  So all temp­tations tend to hell and
damnation, according to Sa­tan’s intent and purpose.

           Answer
3.  And chiefly they may be
said to be ‘fiery,’ in regard of that malignant quality they have on the
spirits of men—and that is to enkindle a fire in the heart and consciences
of poor creatures.  The apostle
alludes to the custom of cruel enemies, who used to dip the heads of their
arrows in some poison, whereby they became more deadly, and did not only wound
the part where they lighted, but inflamed the whole body, which made the cure
more difficult.  Job speaks of ‘the
poison of them which drank up his spirits,’ Job 6:4.  They have an envenoming and inflaming quality.

 

 

 

 

Division Second.—The Power and Puissance of Faith over this Enemy.

 

‘The shield
of faith, whereby ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the
wicked.’

 

           The
fiery darts of Satan which the believing soul is able by faith to quench may be
described as of two sorts.  First. Either those that do pleasingly
entice and bewitch with some seeming promises of satis­faction to the
creature.  Or, Second. Such as affright and carry
horror with them.  Both are fiery,
and quenched by faith, and only faith.

 

 

 

FAITH’S FIRST
QUENCHING POWER.

 

[Satan’s ‘fiery
darts’ of
pleasing temptations,

and faith’s power to
quench them.]

 

           We
shall begin with the first sort of Satan’s fiery darts, viz. those
temptations that do pleasingly entice and bewitch the soul with some seeming
promises of satisfaction to the creature.  The note is this:— Doctrine.
That faith will enable a soul to quench the fire of Satan’s most pleasing
temptations.  First. We will show you that these
enticing temptations have a fiery quality to them.  Second. That
faith is able to quench them.

 

[Satan’s pleasing
temptations
have a ‘fiery’ quality.]

 

           First.  We shall show you that Satan’s enticing temptations have
a fiery quality in them.  They
have an inflaming quality.  There
is a secret disposition in the heart of all to all sin.  Temptation doth not fall on us as a
ball of fire on ice or snow, but as a spark on tinder, or [as] lightning on a
thatched roof, which presently is on a flame.  Hence in Scripture, though tempted by Satan, yet the sin is
charged on us.  ‘Every man is
tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed,’ James 1:14.  Mark! it is Satan tempts, but our own
lust draws us.  The fowler
lays the shrap,[3] but the
bird’s own desire betrays it into the net.  The heart of a man is marvellous prone to take fire from
these darts.  ‘Where no wood is, there
the fire goeth out,’ Prov.
26:20.  Thus the ‘fiery darts’ on Christ. There
was no combustible matter of corruption in him for Satan to work upon.  But our hearts being once heated in
Adam could never cool since.  A
sinner’s heart is compared to ‘an oven.’ 
‘They are all adulterers, as an oven heated by the baker,’ Hosea 7:4. The heart
of man is the oven, the devil the baker, and temptation the fire with which he
heats it; and then no sin comes amiss. 
‘I lie,’ saith David, ‘among them that are set on fire,’ Ps. 57:4.  And, I pray, who sets them on
fire?  The apostle will resolve us,
‘set on fire of hell,’ James
3:6.  O friends! when once the heart is
inflamed by temptation, what strange effects doth it produce! how hard to
quench such a fire, though in a gracious person!  David himself, under the power of a temptation so apparent
that a carnal eye could see it—Joab I mean, who reproved him—yet was hurried to
the loss of seventy thousand men’s lives; for so much that one sin cost.  And if the fire be so raging in a
David, what work will it make where no water is nigh, no grace in the heart to
quench it?  Hence the wicked are
said to be ‘mad’ upon their idols, Jer. 1:38—spurring on without fear or wit, like
a man inflamed with a fever that takes his head; there is no holding of him
then in his bed.  Thus the soul
posses­sed with the fury of temptation runs into the mouth of death and hell,
and will not be stopped.

 

[Use or Application.]

 

           Use
First.  O how should this make
us afraid of running into a temptation when there is such a witchery in it.  Some men are too confident.  They have too good an opinion of
themselves—as if they could not be taken with such a disease, and therefore
will breathe in any air.  It is
just with God to let such be shot with one of Satan’s darts, to make them know
their own hearts better.  Who will
pity him whose house is blown up, that kept his powder in the chimney
corner?  ‘Is thy servant a dog,’
saith Hazael, II
Kings 8:13.  Do you make me a beast, sunk so far be­low
the nature of man as to imbrue my hands in these horrid murders?  Yet, how soon did this wretch fall into
the temptation, and, by that one bloody act upon his liege lord, which he
perpetrated as soon as he got home, show that the other evils, which the
prophet foretold of him, were not so improbable as at first he thought.  Oh, stand off the devil’s mark, unless
you mean to have one of the devil’s arrows in your side! Keep as far from the
whirl of temptation as may be. For if once he got you within his circle, thy head
may soon be dizzy.  One sin helps
to kindle another; the less the greater, as the brush the logs.  When the courtiers had got their king
to carouse and play the drunkard, he soon learned to play the scorner: ‘The
princes have made him sick with bottles of wine; he stretched out his hand with
scorners,’ Hosea
7:5.

           Use
Second.  Hath Satan’s darts
such an enkind­ling nature? take heed of being Satan’s instrument in putting
fire to the corruption of another. 
Some on purpose do it. 
Idolaters set out their temples and al­tars with superstitious pictures,
embellished with all the cost that gold and silver can afford them, to be­witch
the spectator’s eye.  Hence they
are said to be ‘inflamed with their idols,’ Isa. 57:5—as much as any lover with his
minion.  And the drunkard, he enkin­dles
his neighbour’s lust, ‘putting the bottle to him,’ Hab. 2:15.  O what a base work are these men em­ployed
about!  By the law it is death for
any wilfully to set fire on his neighbour’s house.  What then de­serve they that set fire on the souls of men,
and that no less than hell-fire? 
But, is it possible thou mayest do it unawares by a less matter than
thou dreamest on.  A silly child
playing with a lighted straw may set a house on fire which many wise cannot
quench.  And truly Satan may use
thy folly and carelessness to kin­dle lust in another’s heart.  Perhaps an idle light speech drops from
thy mouth, and thou meanest no great hurt; but a gust of temptation may carry
this spark into thy friend’s bosom, and kindle a sad fire there.  A wanton attire, which we will suppose
thou wearest with a chaste heart, and only because it is the fashion, yet may
ensnare another's eye.  And if he
that kept a pit open but to the hurt of a beast, sinned, how much more thou,
who givest occasion to a soul’s sin, which is a worse hurt?  Paul ‘would not eat flesh while the
world stood, if it made his brother offend,’ I Cor. 8:13.  And canst thou dote on a foolish dress
and im­modest fashion, whereby many may offend, still to wear it?  ‘The body,’ Christ saith, ‘is better
than rai­ment.’  The soul, then, of
thy brother is more to be valued surely than an idle fashion of thy
raiment.  We come to the second
branch of the point.

 

[Faith’s power to quench

Satan’s pleasing
temptations.]

 

           Second.  We shall show you that faith will enable a soul to quench
the pleasing temptations of the wicked one.  This is called our ‘victory that overcometh the world, even
our faith,’ I
John 5:4.
Faith sets its triumphant banner on the world's head.  The same St. John will tell you what is meant by the world:
‘Love not the world;... for all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh,
and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is
of the world,’ I
John 2:15, 16.  All that is in the world is said to be ‘lust,’
because it is food and fuel for lust. 
Now faith enables the soul to quench those darts which Satan dips and
envenoms with these worldly lusts —called by some the worldlings Trinity.

           First
Dart of pleasing temptations.  ‘The
lust of the flesh.’  Under this
are comprehended those temp­tations that promise pleasure and delight to the
flesh. These indeed carry fire in the mouth of them; and when they light on a
carnal heart, do soon inflame it with unruly passions and beastly
affections.  The adulterer is said
to burn in his lust, Rom.
1:27.  The drunkard to be ‘inflamed with his
wine,’ Isa.
5:11.  No sort of temptation works more
strongly than those which present sensual pleasure and promise delight to the
flesh.  Sinners are said to ‘work
all uncleanness with greediness’—with a kind of covetousness; for the word
imports they never have enough.[4]  When the voluptuous person hath wasted
his estate, jaded his body in luxury, still the fire burns in his wretched
heart.  No drink will quench a poisoned
man’s thirst. Nothing but faith can be helpful to a soul in these flames.  We find Dives in hell burning, and not
‘a drop of water to cool the tip of his tongue’ found there.  The unbelieving sinner is in a hell
above ground.  He burns in his
lust, and not a drop of water, for want of faith, to quench the fire.  By faith it is said those glorious
martyrs ‘quenched the violence of the fire,’ Heb. 11.  And truly the fire of lust is as hot as the fire of
martyrdom.  By faith alone this is
quenched also: ‘We...were sometimes foolish, dis­obedient, deceived, serving
divers lusts and pleas­ures,...But after that the kindness and love of God our
Saviour toward man appeared,...he saved us,’ Titus 3:3, 4.  Never could they shake off these lusts,
the old companions, till by faith they got a new acquaintance with the grace of
God re­vealed in the gospel.

 

[How faith quenches
the ‘lust of the flesh.’]

 

           Question.  How does faith quench this fiery dart
of sensual delights?

           Answer
1. As it undeceives and takes off the mist from the Christian’s eyes,
whereby he is now enabled to see sin in its naked being and callow[5] principles
be­fore Satan hath plumed [it].  It
gives him the native taste and relish of sin before the devil hath sophis­ticated
it with his sugared sauce.  And
truly, now sin proves a homely piece, a bitter morsel.  Faith hath a piercing eye; it is ‘the
evidence of things not seen.’  It
looks behind the curtain of sense, and sees sin, before its fiery was on and it
be dressed for the stage, to be a brat that comes from hell, and brings hell
with it. Now, let Satan come if he please, and present a lust never so
enticing, the Christian’s answer is ready.  ‘Be not cheated, O my soul,’ saith faith, ‘with a lying
spirit.’  He shows thee a fair
Rachel, but he intends thee a blear-eyed Leah; he promises joy, but he will pay
thee sorrow.  The clothes that make
this lust so comely are not its own. 
The sweetness thou tastest is not native, but borrowed to deceive thee
withal. ‘Thou art Saul,’ saith the woman of Endor, ‘why hast thou deceived me?’
Thus, faith can call sin and Satan by their own names when they come in a
disguise. ‘Thou art Satan,’ saith faith, ‘why wouldst thou de­ceive me?  God hath said sin is bitter as gall and
wormwood, and wouldst thou make me believe I can gather the sweet fruits of
true delight from this root of bitterness? grapes from these thorns?’

           Answer
2. Faith doth not only enable the soul to see the nature of sin void of all
true pleasure, but also how transient its false pleasures are.  I will not lose, saith faith, sure
mercies for transient uncertain pleas­ures.  This made Moses leap out of the pleasures of the Egyptian
court into the fire of ‘affliction,’ Heb. 11:25, because he saw them ‘pleasures for a
season.’ Should you see a man in a ship throw himself over­board into the sea,
you might at first think him out of his wits; but if, a little while after, you
should see him stand safe on the shore, and the ship swallowed up of the waves,
you should then think he took the wisest course.  Faith sees the world and all the pleasures of sin sinking:
there is a leak in them which the wit of man cannot stop.  Now is it not better to swim by faith through
a sea of trouble and get safe to heaven at last, than to sin in the lap of
sinful pleasures till we drown in hell's gulf?  It is impossible that the pleasure of sin should last long.

           (1.)
Because it is not natural. 
Whatever is not natural soon decays.  The nature of sugar is to be sweet, and therefore it holds
its sweetness; but sweeten beer or wine never so much with sugar, in a few days
they will lose their sweetness. 
The pleasure of sin is extrinsical to its nature, and therefore will
corrupt.  None of that sweetness
which now bewitches sinners will be tasted in hell.  The sinner shall have his cup spiced there by his hand that
will have it a bitter draught.

           (2.)
The pleasures of sin must needs be short, because life cannot be long, and
they both end toge­ther. 
Indeed, many times the pleasure of sin dies be­fore the man dies.  Sinners live to bury their joy in this
world.  The worm breeds in their
conscience be­fore it breeds in their flesh by death.  But be sure that the pleasure of sin never survives this
world.  The word is gone out of
God’s mouth, every sinner shall ‘lie down in sorrow and wake in sorrow.’  Hell is too hot a climate for wanton
delights to live in.  Now faith is
a provident, wise grace, and makes the soul bethink itself how it may live in
another world.  Whereas the carnal
heart is all for the present; his snout is in the trough, and, while his
draught lasts he thinks it will never end.  But faith hath a large stride; at one pace it can reach over
a whole life of years and see them done while they are but beginning.  ‘I have seen an end of all
perfections,’ saith David.  He saw
the wicked, when growing on their bed of pleasure, cut down, and burning in
God’s oven, as if it were done already, Ps. 37:2.  And faith will do the like for every Christian according to
its strength and activity.  And who
would envy the condemned man his feast which he hath in his way to the gallows.

           Answer
3. Faith outvies Satan’s proffers by show­ing the soul where choicer
enjoyments are to be had at a cheaper rate.  Indeed, ‘best is best cheap.’  Who will not go to that shop where he may be best served?
This law holds in force among sinners themselves.  The drunkard goes where he may have the best wine; the
glutton where he may have the best cheer. 
Now faith presents such enjoyments to the soul that are beyond all
compare best.  It leads to the
promise, and entertains it there, at Christ’s cost, with all the rich dainties
of the gospel.  Not a dish that the
saints feed on in heaven but faith can set before the soul, and give it, though
not a full meal, yet such a taste as shall melt it in 'joy unspeakable and full
of glory.’  This sure must needs
quench the temptation.  When Satan
sends to invite the Christian to his gross fare, will not the soul say, ‘Should
I forsake those pleasures that cheered, yea ravished, my heart, to go and
debase my­self with sin's polluted bread, where I shall be but a
fellow-commoner with the beast, who shares in sen­sual pleasures with man—yea,
become worse than the beast—a devil, like Judas, who arose from his Master’s
table to sit at the devil’s?’

           Second
Dart of pleasing temptations.  ‘The
lust of the eyes.’  This is
quenched by faith.  By ‘the lust of
the eyes,’ the apostle means those temptations which are drawn from the world’s
pelf and treasure. [It is] called so, in the first place, because it is the
eye that commits adultery with these things.  As the un­clean eye looks upon another man's wife, so the
cov­etous eye looks upon another's wealth to lust after it. In the second place
it is called so, because all the good that in a manner is received from them
is but to please the eye. 
‘What good is there to the owners thereof, saving the beholding of them
with their eyes?’ Ecc.
5:11.  That is, if a man hath but to buy food
and raiment enough to pay his daily shot of necessary ex­penses, the surplusage
serves only for the eye to play the wanton with.  Yet we see how pleasing a morsel they are to a carnal
heart.  It is rare to find a man
that will not stoop, by base and sordid practices, to take up this golden
apple.  When I consider what sad ef­fects
this temptation had on Ahab, who, to gain a spot of ground of a few acres, that
could not add much to a king’s revenues, durst swim to it in the owner’s blood,
I wonder not to see men whose condition is necessitous nibbling at the hook of
temptation, where the bait is a far greater worldly advantage.  This is the door the devil entered into
Judas by.  This was the break-neck
of Demas’ faith, he embraced ‘this present world.’  Now faith will quench a temptation edged with these.

 

[How faith quenches
the ‘lust of the eyes.’]

 

           1.
Faith persuades the soul of God's fatherly care and providence over it.  And where this breast-work is raised
the soul is safe so long as it keeps within its line.  ‘Oh!’ saith Satan, ‘if thou wouldst but venture on a
lie—make bold a little with God in such a com­mand—this wedge of gold is thine,
and that advan­tage will accrue to thy estate.’  Now faith will teach the soul to reply, ‘I am well provided
for already, Sa­tan; I need not thy pension; why should I play the thief for
that which, if good, God hath promised to give?’  ‘Let your con­versation be without covetous­ness;
and be content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will
never leave thee, nor forsake thee,’ Heb. 13:5.  How canst thou want, O my soul, that by the promise hast
command of God's purse?  Let him
that is ‘without God in the world’ shift and shirk by his wits; do thou live by
thy faith.

           2.
Faith teaches the soul that the creature’s com­fort and content comes not
from abundance but God’s blessing. 
And to gain the world by a sin is not the road that leads to God’s
blessing.  ‘A faithful man shall
abound with blessings: but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be
innocent,’ Prov.
28:20.  ‘Shouldst thou,’ saith faith, ‘heap up
the world's goods in an evil way, thou art never the nearer to the content thou
ex­pectest.’  It is hard to steal
one's meat and then crave a blessing on it at God’s hands.  What thou gettest by sin Satan cannot
give thee quiet possession of, nor discharge those suits which God will surely
com­mence against thee.

           3.
Faith advanceth the soul to higher projects than to seek the things of this
life.  It discover a world
beyond the moon—and there lies faith’s merchandise —leaving the colliers of
this world to load themselves with clay and coals, while it trades for grace
and glory.  Faith fetcheth its
riches from on far.  Saul did not
more willingly leave seeking his father’s asses when he heard of a kingdom,
than the believing soul leaves proling for the earth now it hears of Christ and
heaven, Ps.
39:6, 7.  We find, ver. 6, holy David brand­ing the men of the
world for folly, that they troubled themselves so much for naught: ‘Surely,’
saith he, ‘they are disquieted in vain; he heapeth up riches, and knoweth not
who shall gather them.’  And, ver. 7, we have
him with a holy disdain turning his back upon the world as not worth his pains:
‘And now, Lord, what wait I for?’ 
As if he had said, Is this the portion I could be content to sit down
with?—to sit upon a greater heap of riches than my neighbour hath?  ‘My hope is in thee; deliver me from
all my transgressions,’ ver.
8.  Every one as they like.  Let them that love the world take the
world; but, Lord, pay not my portion in gold or silver, but in pardon of
sin.  This I wait for.  Abraham, he by faith had so low an
esteem of this world's treasure that he left his own country to live here a
stranger, in hope of ‘a better,’ Heb. 11:16.

           Third
Dart of pleasing temptations.  ‘The
pride of life.’  There is an
itch of pride in man’s heart after the gaudy honours of the world; and this
itch of man’s proud flesh the devil labours to scratch and ir­ritate by
suitable proffers.  And when the
temptation without and lust within meet, then it works to pur­pose.  Balaam loved the way that led to court;
and therefore spurs on his conscience—that boggled more than the ass he rode
on—till the blood came.  The Jews
when convinced of Christ’s person and doctrine, yet were such slaves to their
honour and credit, that they part with Christ rather than hazard that.  ‘For they loved the praise of men more
than the praise of God,’ John
12:43.  Now faith quenches this temptation,
and, with a holy scorn, disdains that all the prefer­ment the world hath to
heap on him should be a bribe for the least sin.  ‘By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be
called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter,’ Heb. 11:24, though by this adoption he might
have been heir, for aught we know, of the crown; yet this he threw at his
heels.  It is not said, ‘he did not
seek to be the son of Pharaoh’s daughter,’ though that would have sounded a
high commenda­tion, having so fair an opportunity.  Some would not have scrupled a little court flattery,
thereby to have cologued[6]From Webster’s.         —
SDB
themselves into further favour—having so fair a stock in the king's heart to
set up with.  But, it is said that
he ‘refused to be called’ by this name. Honour came trouling in upon him, as
water at a flowing tide.  Now, to
stand against this flood of pre­ferment, and no breach made in his heart to
entertain it—this was admirable indeed. 
Nay, he did not refuse this preferment for any principality that he
hoped for elsewhere.  He forsook
not one court to go to another, but to join with a beggarly reproached peo­ple.  Yea, by rejecting their favour he
incurred the wrath of the king. 
Yet faith carried him through all those heights and depths of favour and
disgrace, honour and dishonour; and truly, wherever this grace is—allowing for
its strength and weakness—it will do the like.  We find, Heb. 11:33, how Samuel and the prophets ‘through faith
subdued kingdoms.’  This, sure, is
not only meant of the conquest of the sword —though some of them performed
honourable achievements that way—but also by despising the honour and
preferments of them.  This indeed
many of the prophets are famous for; and in particular Samuel, who, at God's
command, gave away a king­dom from his own house and family by anointing Saul,
though himself at present had possession of the chief's magistrate’s
chair.  And others, ver. 37, we read,
‘were tempted;’ that is, when ready to suffer, were offered great preferments
if they would bend to the times by receding a little from the bold profession
of their faith; but they chose rather the flames of martyr­dom than the favour
of princes on those terms.  But,
more particularly to show you how faith quenches this temptation.

 

[How faith quenches ‘the
pride of life.’]

 

           1.
Faith takes away the fuel that feeds this temp­tation.  Withdraw the oil and the lamp goes
out.  Now that which is fuel to
this temptation is pride.  Where
this lust is in any strength, no wonder the creature’s eyes are dazzled with
the sight of that which suits the desires of his heart so well.  The devil now by a temp­tation does but
broach, and so give vent to, what the heart itself is full with.  Simon Magus had a haughty spirit; he
would be Simon µX("H—some great
man, and therefore, when he did but think an opportunity as offered to mount
him up the stage, he is all on fire with a desire of having a gift to work
miracles, that he dares to offer to play the huckster with the apostle. Whereas
a humble spirit loves a low seat; is not ambi­tious to stand high in the
thoughts of others; and so, while he stoops in his own opinion of himself, the
bullet flees over his head which hits the proud man on the breast.  Now it is faith lays the heart low. Pride
and faith are opposed; like two buckets, if one goes up the other goes down in
the soul.  ‘Behold, his soul which
is lifted up is not upright in him: but the just shall live by his faith,’ Hab. 2:4.

           2.
Faith is Christ’s favourite, and so makes the Christian expect all his
honour from him.  Indeed it is
one of the prime acts of faith to cast the soul on God in Christ as
all-sufficient to make it completely happy; and therefore, when a temptation
comes —‘soul, thou mayest raise thyself in the world to this place or that
esteem, if thou wilt but dissemble thy profession, or allow thyself in such a
sin’—now faith chokes the bullet. 
Remember whose thou art, O my soul.  Hast thou not taken God for thy liege-lord, and wilt thou
accept preferment from another’s hand? Princes will not suffer their courtiers
to become pen­sioners to a foreign prince—least of all to a prince in hostility
to them.  Now, saith faith, the
honour or applause thou gettest by sin makes thee pensioner to the devil
himself, who is the greatest enemy God hath.

           3.
Faith shows the danger of such a bargain, should a Christian gain the
glory of the world for one sin.

           (1.)
Saith faith, Hadst thou the whole world’s empire, with all bowing before thee, this
would not add to thy stature one cubit in the eye of God.  But thy sin which thou payest for the
purchase blots thy name in his thoughts; yea, makes thee odious in his
sight.  God must first be out of
love with himself before he can love a sinner as such.  Now, wilt thou incur this for
that?  Is it wisdom to lose a
prize, to draw a blank?

           (2.)
Saith faith, The world’s pomp and glory cannot satisfy thee.  It may kindle thirstings in thy soul,
but quench none; it will beget a thousand cares and fears, but quiet none.  But thy sin that procures these hath a
power to torment and torture thy soul.

           (3.)
When thou hast the world’s crown on thy head, how long shalt thou wear it?  They are sick at Rome, as he said, and
die in princes’ courts, as well as at the spital; yea, kings themselves are put
as naked to their beds of dust as others. 
In that day all thy thoughts will perish with thee.  But the guilt of thy sin, which was the
ladder by which thou didst climb up the hill of honour, will dog thee into
another world.  These and such like
are the considerations by which faith breaks off the bargain.

           4.  Faith presents the Christian with
the exploits of former saints, who have renounced the world’s honour and
applause, rather than defile their con­sciences, and prostitute their souls
to be deflowered by the least sin. 
Great Tamerlane carried the lives of his ancestors into the field with
him, in which he used to read before he gave battle, that he might be stirred
up not to stain the blood of his family by cowardice or any unworthy behaviour
in fight.  Thus, faith peruses the
roll of Scripture-saints, and the exploits of their faith over the world, that
the Christian may be excited to the same gallantry of spirit.  This was plainly the apostle’s design
in recording those worthies, with the trophies of their faith, Heb. 11—that some
of their no­bleness might steal into our hearts while we are read­ing of them,
as appears, ‘Seeing we also are com­passed about with so great a cloud of
witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so eas­ily
beset us,’ Heb.
12:1.  Oh, what courage does it put into the
soldier to see some before him run upon the face of death!  Elisha, having seen the miracles of God
wrought by Elijah, smites the waters of Jordan with his mantle, saying, ‘Where is
the Lord God of Elijah?—‘and they parted,’ II Kings 2:14.  Thus faith makes use of the exploits of former saints and
turns them into prayer.  Oh where
is the Lord God of Abra­ham, Moses, Samuel, and those other worthies, who by
faith have trampled on the world’s pomp and glory, subdued temptations, stopped
the mouths of lion-like lusts?  Art
not thou, O God, god of the val­leys—the meanest saints, as well as of the
mountains —more eminent heroes?  Do
not the same blood and spirits run in the veins of all believers?  Were they victorious, and shall I be
the only slave, and of so prostrate a spirit, like Issachar, to couch under my
burden of corruption without shaking it off?  Help me, O my God, that I may be avenged of these my
enemies.  And when it hath been
with God it will also plead with the Christian himself.  ‘Awake,’ saith faith, ‘O my soul, and
prove thyself akin to these holy men —that thou art born of God as they were—by
thy victory over the world.’

 

[Faith’s victory over
the world distinguished from

that attained by some
of the better heathens.]

 

           Objection.  But some may say, if this be all faith
enables to, this is no more than some heathens have done.  They have trampled on the profits,
pleasures of the world, who never knew what faith meant.

           Answer.  Indeed, many of them have done so much
by their moral principles, as may make some, who would willingly pass for
believers, ashamed to be outgone by them who shot in so weak a bow.  Yet it will appear that there is a
victory of faith, which, in the true believer, outshoots them more than their
moral conquest doth the debauched conversations of looser Christians.

           1.
Distinction.  Faith quenches
the lust of the heart.  Those
very embers of corruption, which are so secretly raked up in the inclination of
the soul, find the force and power of faith to quench them.  Faith purifies the heart, Acts 15:9.  Now none of their con­quests reach the
heart. Their longest ladder was too short to reach the walls of this
castle.  They swept the door,
trimmed a few outward rooms; but the seat and sink of all, in the corruption of
man’s nature, was never cleansed by them; so that the fire of lust was rather
pent in than put out.  How is it
possible that could be cleansed, the filthiness of which was never known to them?  Alas! they never looked so near
themselves to find that enemy within them which they thought was without.  Thus, while they laboured to keep the
thief out he was within, and they knew it not.  For they did either proudly think that the soul was
naturally endued with principles of virtue, or vainly imagined it to be but an abrasa
tabula—white paper, on which they might write good or evil as they
pleased.  Thus you see the seat of
their war was in the world without them, which, after some sort, they con­quered;
but the lust within remained untouched, be­cause a terra incognita—an
unknown region to them.  It is
faith from the word that first discovers this unfound land.

           2.
Distinction.  Faith’s
victory is uniform.  Sin in
Scripture is called a ‘body,’ Rom. 6:6, because made up of several members, or as
the body of an army, con­sisting of many troops and regiments.  It is one thing to beat a troop or put
a wing of an army to flight, and another thing to rout and break the whole
army. Something hath been done by moral principles, like the former.  They have got some petty victory, and
had the chase of some more gross and exterior sin; but then they were fearfully
beaten by some other of sin's troops. 
When they seemed to triumph over ‘the lust of the flesh’ and ‘eye’—the
world’s profits and pleasures—they were at the same time slaves to ‘the pride
of life,’ mere gloriæ animalia—creatures of fame—kept in chains by the
credit and applause of the world. 
As the sea which, they say, loses as much in one place of the land as it
gains in another; so, what they got in a seeming victory over one sin they lost
again by being in bondage to another, and that a worse, because more
spiritual.  But now, faith is uni­form,
and routs the whole body of sin, that not one single lust stands in its unbroken
strength.  ‘Sin shall not have
dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace,’ Rom. 6:14.  ‘Sin shall not’—that is, no sin; it may
stir like a wounded soldier on his knees—they may rally like broken troops, but
never will they be long master of the field where true faith is seen.

           3.
Distinction.  Faith enables
the soul not only to quench these lusts, but, the temptation being
quenched, it enables him to use the world itself against Satan, and so beat
him with his own weapon by striking his own cudgels to his head.  Faith quen­ches the fire of Satan’s
darts, and then shoots them back on him. 
This it doth by reducing all the enjoy­ments of the world which the
Christian is possessed of into a serviceableness and subordination for the glory
of God.

           Some
of the heathens’ admired champions, to cure ‘the lust of the eyes,’ have from a
blind zeal plucked them out; to show the contempt of riches, have thrown their
money into the sea; to conquer the world’s honour and applause, have sequestered
them­selves from all company in the world—a preposterous way that God never
chalked.  Shall we call it a
victory or rather a frenzy?  The
world by this time perceives their folly. 
But faith enables for a nobler conquest. Indeed, when God calls for any of
these enjoyments, faith can lay all at Christ's feet.  But while God allows them, faith’s skill and power is in
sanctifying them. It corrects the windiness and flatulent nature of them so,
that what on a naughty heart  rots
and corrupts, by faith turns to good nourishment in a gracious soul.  If a house were on fire, which would
you count the wiser man—he that goes to quench the fire by pulling the house
down, or he that by throwing good store of water on it, doth this as fully, and
also leaves the house standing for your use?  The heathen and some superstitious Christians think to
mortify by taking away what God gives us leave to use; but faith puts out the
fire of lust in the heart, and leaves the crea­ture to be improved for God’s
glory and enjoyed to the Christian’s comfort.

 

[Use or Application.]

 

           Use
First.  This may be a
touchstone for our faith, whether of the right make or no; is thy faith a
temptation‑quenching faith? 
Many say they believe. Yes, that they do!  They thank God they are not infi­dels.  Well, what exploits canst thou do with
thy faith?  Is it able to defend
thee in a day of battle, and cover thy soul in safety when Satan’s darts flee
thick about thee?  Or is it such a
sorry shield that lets every arrow of temptation pierce thy heart through it?
Thou believest, but still as very a slave to thy lust as ever. When a good
fellow calls thee out to a drunken meet­ing, thy faith cannot keep thee out of
the snare, but away thou goest, as a fool to the stocks.  If Satan tells thee thou mayest
advantage thy estate by a lie, or cheat in thy shop, thy faith stands very
tamely by and makes no resistance. 
In a word, thou hast faith, and yet drivest a trade of sin in the very
face of it!  Oh! God forbid that
any should be under so great a spirit of delusion to carry such a lie in their
hand and think it a saving faith. 
Will this faith ever carry thee to heaven that is not able to bring thee
out of hell? for there thou livest while under the power of thy lust. ‘Will ye
steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear falsely,... and come and stand
before me,’ Jer.
7:9.  If this be faith, well fare and honest
heathens who escaped these gross pollutions of the world, which you like beasts
with your faith lie wallowing in. I had rather be a sober heathen than a
drunken Christian, a chaste heathen than an unclean believer.

           Oh
venture not the life of your souls with such a paper shield.  Come to him for a faith that is the
faith maker—God I mean.  He will
help thee to a faith that shall quench the very fire of hell itself, though
kindled in thy bosom, and divide the waves of thy lust in which now thou art
ever drowned—as once he did the sea for Israel—that thou shalt go on dry land
to heaven, and thy lusts not be able to knock off the wheels of thy chariot.  But, if thou attemptest this with thy
false faith, the Egyptians’ end will be thine. ‘By faith they passed through
the Red sea as by dry land: which the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned,’ Heb. 11:29.  Though true faith gets safely through
the depths of temptation, yet false faith will drown by the way.

           But,
perhaps thou canst tell us better news than this, and give us better evidence
for the truth of thy faith than so. 
Let us therefore hear what singular thing hath been done by thee since a
believer.  The time was thou wert
as weak as water; every puff of wind, blast of temptation, blew thee down; thou
wert carried as a dead fish with the stream.  But, canst thou say [that] since thou hast been acquainted
with Christ thou art endued with a power to repel those temptations which
before held thy heart in perfect obedience to their commands?  Canst thou now be content to bring thy
lusts, which once were of great price with thee—as those believers did their
conjuring books, Acts
19:19—and
throw them into the fire of God’s love in Christ to thy soul, there to consume
them?  Possibly thou hast not them
at present under thy foot in a full conquest.  Yet have they begun to fall in thy thoughts of them? and is
thy countenance changed towards them to {from} what it was?  Be of good comfort, this is enough to
prove thy faith of a royal race. 
‘When Christ cometh,’ said the convinced Jews, ‘will he do more miracles
than these which this man hath done?’ John 7:31.  And when Christ comes by faith into the heart, will he do
greater works than these thy faith hath done?

           Use
Second.  This helps to answer
that objection by which many poor souls are discouraged from be­lieving and
closing with the promise. 
‘Oh,’ saith the tempted soul, ‘ye bid me believe—alas! how dare I, when
I cannot get victory of such a lust, and am over­come by such a
temptation?  What have such as I to
do with a promise?’  See here, poor
soul, this Goliath prostrated.  Thou
art not to believe because thou art victorious, but that thou mayest be victorious.  The reason why thou art so worsted by
thy enemy is for want of faith. 
‘If ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be established,’ Isa. 7:9.  Wouldst thou be cured before thou goest
to the physician? that sounds harsh to thy own reason, and is as if thou
shouldst say thou wilt not go to the physician till thou hast no need of
him.  No; go and touch Christ by
faith that virtue may flow from him to thy soul; thou must not think to eat the
fruit before thou plantest the tree. 
Victory over corruption is a sweet fruit; but found growing upon faith’s
branches.  Satan does by thee as
Saul did by the Israelites, who weakened their hands in battle by keeping them
fasting.  Up and eat, Christian, a
full meal on the promise, if thou wouldst find thy eyes enlightened and thy
hands strengthened for the com­bat with thy lusts.  It is one part of the ‘doctrine of devils,’ which we read
of, I
Tim. 4:3,
to forbid ‘meats which God hath created to be received with thanks­giving.’  But the grand doctrine of the devil which
above all he would promote is, to keep poor trem­bling souls from feeding by
faith on the Lord Jesus; as if Christ were some forbidden fruit!  Whereas, God hath appointed him above
all other, that he should be received with thanksgiving of all humble
sinners.  And therefore, in the
name of God, I invite you to this feast. 
Oh, let not your souls—who see your need of Christ, and are pinched at
your very heart for want of him—be lean from day to day from your unbelief; but
come, ‘eat, and your souls shall live.’ 
Never was child more welcome to his father’s table than thou art to
Christ’s, and that feast which stands on the gospel board.

           Use
Third.  Make use of faith, O ye
saints, as for other ends and purposes, so particularly for this, of quenching
this kind of fiery darts, viz. enticing temp­tations.  It is not the having of a shield, but
the hold­ing and wielding of it, that defends the Christian.  Let not Satan take thee with thy faith
out of thy hand, as David did Saul in the cave, with his speak sticking in the
ground which should have been in his hand.

 

[Directions how to
use the shield of faith

to quench enticing
temptations.]

 

           Question.  But how would you have me use my shield
of faith for my defence against these fiery darts of Satan’s enticing
temptations?

           Answer.  By faith engage God to come in to thy
succour against them.  Now, there
are three engaging acts of faith which will bind God—as we may so say with
reverence—to help thee, because he binds him­self to help such.

           Direction
1.  The first is the prayerful
act of faith.  Open thy case to
God in prayer, and call in help from heaven—as the governor of a besieged
castle would send a secret messenger to his general or prince to let him know
his state and straits.  The apostle
James saith, ‘Ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not,’ chap. 4:2.  Our victory must drop from heaven if we
have any.  But it stays till prayer
comes for it.  Though God had a
purpose to deliver Israel out of Egypt, yet no news of his coming till the
groans of his people rang in his ears. 
This gave heav­en the alarm, ‘Their cry has come up to God,... and God
heard their groaning, and remembered his covenant,’ Ex. 2:24.  Now the more to prevail upon God in
this act of faith, fortify thy prayer with those strong reasons which saints have used in like cases.  As,

           (1.)
Engage God from his promise when thou prayest against any sin.  Show God his own hand in such promises
as these, ‘Sin shall not have dominion over you,’ Rom. 6:14.  ‘He will subdue our iniquities,’ Micah 7:19.  Prayer is nothing but the promise
reversed, or God’s word formed into an argument, and retorted by faith upon God
again.  Know, Christian, thou hast
law on thy side; bills and bonds must be paid, Ps. 119:37.  David is there praying against the sins
of a wanton eye and a dead heart, ‘Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity;
and quicken thou me in thy way.’ 
And see how he urgeth his argument in the next words—‘Stablish thy word
unto thy servant.’  A good man is
as good as his word, and will not a good God? But where finds David such a word
for help against these sins? surely in the covenant; it is the Magna
Charta.  The first promise held
forth thus much, ‘The seed of the woman shall break the serpent’s head.’

           (2.)
Plead with God from relation when thou art against any sin.  Art thou one God hath taken into his
family?  Hast thou chosen God for
thy God?  Oh what an argument hast
thou here!  ‘I am thine, Lord, save
me,’ saith David.  Who will look after
the child if the father will not? 
Is it for thy honour, O God, that any child of thine should be a slave
to sin?  ‘Be merciful unto me, as
thou usest to do unto those that love thy name.’  ‘Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion
over me,’ Ps.
119:132.

           (3.)
Engage God from his Son’s bloody death to help thee against thy lusts
that were his murderers. What died Christ for but to ‘redeem us from all
iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people,’ Titus 2:14.  And shall not Christ be reimbursed of
what he laid out?  Shall he not
have the price of his blood and purchase of his death?  In a word, what is Christ praying for
in heaven, but what was in his mouth when praying on earth?  That his Father would ‘sanc­tify them,
and keep them from the evil of the world.’ Thou comest in a good time to beg
that of God which thou findest Christ hath asked for thee.

           Direction
2.  A second way to engage God
is by faith’s expecting act; when thou hast been with God expect good
from God.  ‘I will direct my prayer
unto thee, and will look up,’ Ps. 5:3. 
For want of this many a prayer is lost.  If you do not believe, why do you pray? and if you believe,
why do you not expect?  By praying,
you seem to depend on God; by not expect­ing, you again renounce your
confidence and ravel out your prayer. 
What is this but to take his name in vain, and to play bo‑peep with God?
as if one that knocks at your door should, before you came to open it to him,
go away and not stay to be spoken with. 
Oh Christian, stand to your prayer in a holy expectation of what you
have begged upon the credit of the prom­ise, and you cannot miss of the ruin of
your lusts.

           Question.  O, but, saith the poor soul, shall not
I presume to expect when I have prayed against my corruptions that God will
bestow on me so great a mercy as this is?

           Answer
(1.)  Dost thou know what it is to
presume?  He presumes that takes a
thing before it is granted.  He
were a presumptuous man indeed that should take your meat off your table who
never was invited.  But I hope your
guest is not over-bold that ventures to eat of what you set before him.  For one to break into your house, upon
whom you shut the door, were presumptuous; but to come out of a storm into your
house when you are so kind as to call him in, is no presumption, but good
manners.  And, if God opens not the
door of his promise to be a sanc­tuary to poor humbled sinners fleeing from the
rage of their lust, truly then I know none of this side heaven that can expect
welcome.  God hath promised to be a
king, a lawgiver, to his people. 
Now it is no presumption in subjects to come under their princes’ shadow
and expect protection from them, Isa. 33:21, 22. God there promiseth he ‘will be unto
us a place of broad rivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars,
neither shall gallant ships pass thereby.’ ‘For the Lord is our judge, the Lord
is our lawgiver, the Lord is our king; he will save us.’  God speaks to his people as a prince or
a state would to their sub­jects. 
He will secure them in their traffic and mer­chandise from all pirates
and pickroons; they shall have a free trade.  Now, soul, thou art molested with many pirate lusts that
infest thee and obstruct thy commerce with heaven—yea, thou hast complained to
thy God what loss thou hast suffered by them; is it now presumption to expect
relief from him, that he will rescue thee from them, that thou mayest serve him
without fear who is thy liege‑lord?

           Answer
(2.)  You have the saints for your
prece­dents, who, when they have been in combat with their corruptions, yea,
been foiled by them, have even then acted their faith on God, and expected the
ruin of those enemies which for the present have overrun them.  Iniquities prevail against me, Ps. 65:3—he means
his own sins and others' wrath. 
But see his faith.  At the
same time they prevailed over him he beholds God destroying of them, as appears
in the very next words, ‘As for our transgressions, thou shalt purge them
away.’  See here, poor Christian,
who thinkest thou shalt never get above deck.  Holy David has a faith not only for himself, but also [for]
all be­lievers—of whose number I suppose thee one—‘as for our transgressions,
thou shalt purge them away!’  And
mark the ground he hath for his confidence, taken from God's choosing act,
‘Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, that
he may dwell in thy courts,’ ver. 4. 
As if he had said, ‘Surely he will not let them be under the power of
sin or want of his gracious succour whom he sets so nigh himself.’  This is Christ’s own argument against
Satan in the behalf of his people. 
‘The Lord rebuke thee, O Satan; even the Lord that hath chosen Jeru­salem
rebuke thee,’ Zech.
3:2.

           Answer
(3.)  Thou hast encouragement for
this expecting act of faith from what God already hath en­abled thee to
do.  Thou canst, if a believer
indeed, through mercy say, that sin is not in that strength within thy soul as
it was before thy acquaintance with Christ, his word  and ways. 
Though thou art not what thou wouldst be,  yet also thou art not what thou hast been.  There was a time when sin played rex—king,
in thy heart without control.  thou
didst go to sin as a ship to sea before wind and tide.  Thou didst dilate and spread thy
affections to receive the gale of temp­tation.  But now the tide is turned, and runs against those motions,
though weakly—being but new flood; yet thou findest a secret wrestling with
them, and God seasonably succouring thee, so that Satan hath not all his will
on thee.  Well, here is a sweet
beginning, and let me tell thee, this promiseth thee a readiness in God to
perfect the victory; yea, God would have thy faith improve this into a
confidence for a total deliv­erance. 
‘Moses,’ when he slew the Egyptian, ‘sup­posed his brethren would have
understood,’ by that little hint and essay, ‘how that God by his hand would
deliver them,’ Acts
7:25.  Oh it is a bad improvement of the
succours God gives us, to argue from them to unbelief: ‘He smote the rock, that
the waters gushed out, can he give bread also?’  He broke my heart, saith the poor creature, when it was a
rock, a flint, and brought me home when I was walking in the pride of my heart
against him; but, can he give bread to nourish my weak grace?  I am out of Egypt; but can he master
those giants in iron chariots that stand betwixt me and Canaan?  He helped me in such a temptation; but
what shall I do the next bout?  Oh,
do not grieve a good God with these heart‑aching questions.  You have ‘the former rain,’ why should
you question ‘the latter?’ 
Benjamin was a good pawn to make old Jacob willing to go himself to
Egypt.  The grace which God hath
already enriched thee with is a sure pledge that more is coming to it.

           Direction
3.  The expecting act of faith must
produce another—an endeavouring act, to set the soul on work in the
confidence of that succour it ex­pects from God.  When Jehoshaphat had prayed and stablished his faith on the
good word of promise, then he takes the field and marches out under his vic­torious
banner against his enemies, II Chr. 20. 
Go, Christian, do as he did, and speed as he sped.  What David gave in council to his son
Solomon, that give I to thee, ‘Arise therefore, and be doing, and the Lord be
with thee,’ I
Chr. 22:16.  That faith which sets thee on work for
God against thy sins as his enemies, will undoubtedly set god on work for thee
against them as thine.  The lepers
in the gospel were cured, not sitting still but walking.  ‘And it came to pass, that, as they
went, they were cleansed,’ Luke 17:14. 
They met their cure in an act of obedience to Christ’s command. The
promiseth saith, ‘Sin shall not have dominion over you;’ the command bids,
‘Mortify your members which are on earth.’  Go thou and make a valiant attempt against thy lusts, upon
this word of com­mand, and in doing thy duty thou shalt find the per­formance
of the promise.  The reason of so
many fruitless among Christians concerning the power of their corruptions lies
in one of these two miscarriages —either they endeavour without acting faith on
the promise (and such indeed go at their own peril, like those bold men, Num. 14:40, who
presumptuously went up the hill to fight the Canaanites, though Moses told them
the Lord was not among them, thus slighting the conduct of Moses their leader,
as if they needed not his help to the victory; a clear resemblance of those who
go in their own strength to resist their cor­ruptions and so fall before
them)—or else they pre­tend to believe, but it is ostiâ fide—an easy
faith; their faith doth not set them on a vigorous endeavour. They use faith as
an eye but not as a hand; they look for victory to drop from heaven upon their
heads, but do not fight to obtain it. 
This is a mere fiction, a fanciful faith.  He that believes God for the event, believes him for the
means also.  If the patient dare
trust the physician for the cure, he dare also follow his prescription in order
to it.  And therefore, Chris­tian,
sit not still, and say thy sin shall fall, but put thyself in array against
it.  God, who hath promised thee
victory calls thee to thy arms and means to use thy own hands in the battle if
ever thou gettest it. ‘Get thee up,’ said the Lord to Joshua, ‘wherefore liest
thou thus upon thy face,’ Joshua
7:10.  God liked the prayer and moan he made
very well; but there was something else for him to do besides praying and
weeping, before the Amorites could be overcome.  And so there is for thee, Christian, with thy faith to do,
besides praying and expecting thy lusts down, and that is searching narrowly
into thy heart, whether there be not some neglect on thy part, as an Achan, for
which thou art so worsted by sin, and fleest before the face of every
temptation.

 

 

 

FAITH’S SECOND
QUENCHING POWER.

 

[Satan’s fiery darts
of affrighting

temptations, and faith’s power

to quench them.]

 

           Having
thus despatched the first kind of fiery darts—temptations which are enticing
and alluring —we now proceed to the second kind—such as are of an
affrighting nature, by which Satan would dismay and dispirit the
Christian.  And my task [in this]
is still the same, to show the power of faith in quenching these fiery
darts.  Let then the point be this.

           Doctrine.  That faith, and only faith, can quench the fiery darts of
Satan’s affrighting tempta­tions. 
This sort of fiery dart is our enemy’s reserve. When the other, viz.
pleasing temptations, prove un­successful, then he opens this quiver and sends
a shower of these arrows to set the soul on flame, if not of sin, yet of terror
and horror.  When he cannot carry a
soul laughing to hell through the witchery of pleasing temptations, he will
endeavour to make him go mourning to heaven by amazing him with the other.  And truly it is not the least support
to a soul exercised with these temptations to consider they are a good sign
that Satan is hard put to it when these arrows are upon his string.  You know an enemy that keeps a castle
will preserve it as long as he can hold it; but, when he sees he must out, then
he sets it on fire, to render it, if possible, useless to them that come after
him.  While the strong man can keep
his house under his own power, he labours to keep it in peace; he quenches
those fire-balls of conviction that the Spirit is often shooting into the
conscience; but, when he perceives it is no longer tenable, [when] the mutiny
increases, and there is a secret whisper in the soul of yielding unto Christ,
now he labours to set the soul on fire by his affrighting temptations.  Much more doth he labour to do it when
Christ hath got the castle out of his hands, and keeps it by the power of his
grace against him.  It is very
observable that all the darts shot against Job were of this sort.  He hardly made any use of the other.  When God gave him leave to practice his
skill, why did he not tempt him with some golden apple of profit, or pleasure,
or such like enticing temptations? 
Surely the high testimony that God gave to this eminent servant
discouraged Satan from this method; yea, no doubt he had tried Job's manhood
before this as to those, and found him too hard; so that now he had no other
way left prob­able to attain his design but this.  I shall content my­self with three instances of this sort of
fiery darts, showing how faith quenches them all—temptations to atheism,
blasphemy, and despair.

 

[Satan’s first
affrighting temptation

—the fiery dart of atheism.]

 

           First
Dart of affrighting temptations. 
The first of Satan’s affrighting temptations is his temptation to
atheism, which, for the horrid nature thereof, may well be called a fiery dart;
partly because by this he makes so bold an attempt, striking at the being of
God himself; as also because of the consternation he produceth in a gracious
soul wounded with it.  It is true
the devil, who cannot himself turn atheist, is much less able to make a child
of God an atheist, who hath not only in common with other men an indelible
stamp of a deity in his conscience, but such a sculpture of the divine nature
in his heart, as irresis­tibly demonstrates a God; yea, lively represents a
holy God, whose image it is; so that it is impossible a holy heart should be
fully overcome with this temptation, having an argument beyond all the world of
wicked men and devils themselves to prove a deity, viz. a new nature in him,
‘created after God in righteousness and true holiness,’ by which, even when he
is buffeted with atheistical injections, he saith in his heart, ‘There is a
God,’ though Satan in the paroxysm of his temptation, clouds his reasoning
faculty for the pres­ent with this smoke of hell, which doth more offend and
affright than persuade his gracious heart to es­pouse such a principle as it
doth in a wicked man; who, when, on the contrary, he is urged by his conscience
to believe a God, ‘saith in his heart there is no God,’ that is, he wisheth
there were none.  And this may
exceedingly comfort a saint—who, notwith­standing such injections to atheism,
clings about God in his affections, and dares not for a world allow him­self to
sin against him, no, not when most oppressed with this temptation—that he shall
not pass for an atheist in God's account, whatever Satan makes him
believe.  As the wicked shall not
be cleared from atheism by their naked profession of a deity, so long as those
thoughts of God are so loose and weak as not to command them into any obedience
to his com­mands—‘The transgression of the wicked saith within my heart, that
there is no fear of God before his eyes,’ Ps. 36:1; the holy prophet argues from the
wickedness of the sinner’s life to the atheism of his heart—so, on the
contrary, the holy life of a gracious person saith in mine heart that the fear
of God is before his eyes; it appears plainly that he believes a God, and
reveres that God whom he believes to be. 
Well, though a gracious heart can never be overcome, yet he may be sadly
haunted and disquieted with it. 
Now, in the next place, I am to show you how the Christian may quench
this fiery dart, and that is by faith alone.

 

[How faith quenches

the fiery dart of
atheism.]

 

           Question.  But what need of faith?  Will not reason serve the turn to stop
the devil’s mouth in this point? 
Cannot the eye of reason spy a deity except it look through the
spectacles of faith?

           Answer.  I grant that this is a piece of natural
di­vinity, and reason is able to demonstrate the being of a God.  Where the Scriptures never came a deity
is acknowledged: ‘For all people will walk every one in the name of his god,’ Micah 4:5, where it
is supposed that every nation owns some deity, and hath a wor­ship for that god
they own.  Yet in a furious assault
of temptation it is faith alone that is able to keep the field and quench the
fire of this dart.

           1.
That light which reason affords is duskish and confused, serving for
little more than in general to show there is a God; it will never tell who or
what this God is.  Till Paul
brought the Athenians acquainted with the true God, how little of this first
principle in religion was known among them, though that city was then the very
eye of the world for learning!  And
if the world's eye was so dark as not to know the God they worshipped, what then
was the world’s darkness itself —those barbarous places, I mean, which wanted
all tillage and culture of humane literature to advance and perfect their
understandings?  This is a
Scripture notion; and so is the object of faith rather than rea­son, ‘He that
cometh to God must believe that he is,’ Heb. 11:6.  Mark that, he ‘must believe.’  Now faith goes upon the credit of the
word, and takes all upon trust from its authority.  He ‘must believe that he is;’ which, as Mr. Perkins on the
place saith, is not nakedly to know there is a God, but to know God to be
God’—which reason of itself can never do.  Such is the blindness and corruption of our nature, that we
have very deformed and misshapen thoughts of him, till with the eye of faith we
see his face in the glass of the word; and therefore the same learned man is
not afraid to affirm that all men who ever cam of Adam —Christ alone
excepted—are by nature atheists, because at the same time that they acknowledge
a God, they deny him his power, presence, and justice, and allow him to be only
what pleaseth themselves. Indeed it is natural for every man to desire to accom­modate
his lusts with such conceptions of God as may be most favourable to, and suit
best with, them.  God chargeth some
for this: ‘Thou thoughtest that I was altogether such an one as thyself,’ Ps. 50:21—sinners
doing with God as the Ethiopians with angels, whom they picture with black
faces that they may be like themselves.

           2.  Suppose thou wert able by reason to
demon­strate what God is, yet it were dangerous to enter the list and
dispute it out by thy naked reason with Satan, who hath, though the worst
cause, yet the nimbler head.  There
is more odds between thee and Satan —though the reason and understanding of
many the ripest wits were met in thee—than between the weak­est idiot and the
greatest scholar in the world.  Now
who would put a cause of so great importance to such a hazard as thou must do,
by reasoning the point with him that so far outmatches thee?  But there is a divine authority in the
word which faith builds on, and this hath a throne in the conscience of the
devil himself, he flies at this; for which cause Christ, though he was able by
reason to have baffled the devil, yet to give us a pattern what arms to use for
our defence in our conflicts with Satan, he repels him only by lifting up the
shield of the word.  ‘It is writ­ten,’
saith Christ, Luke
4:4,
and again, ‘it is written,’ ver. 8. 
And it is very observable how powerful the word quoted by Christ was to
nonplus the devil; so that he had not a word to reply to any scripture that was
brought, but was taken off upon the very mention of the word and forced to go
to another argument. Had Eve but stood to her first answer, ‘God hath said, Ye
shall not eat of it,’ Gen.
3:3,
she had been too hard for the devil; but letting her hand‑hold go which she had
by faith on the word, presently she fell into her enemy's hand.  Thus in this particular, when the
Christian in the heat of temptation by faith stands upon his defence,
interposing the word between him and Satan’s blows—I believe that God is;
though I cannot comprehend his nature nor answer thy sophis­try, yet I believe
the report the word makes of God; Satan may trouble such a one, but he cannot
hurt him.  Nay, it is probable he
will not long trouble him. The devil's antipathy is so great to the word, that
he loves not to hear it sound in his ear. 
But, if thou throwest down the shield of the word, and thinkest by the
dint or force of thy reason to cut thy way through the temptation, thou mayest
soon see thyself sur­rounded by thy subtle enemy, and put beyond an honourable
retreat.  This is the reason, I
conceive, why, among those few who have professed themselves atheists, most of
them have been great pretenders to reason—such as have neglected the word, and
gone forth in the pride of their own understanding, by which, through the
righteous judgment of God, they at last have disputed themselves into flat
atheism. While they have turned their back upon God and his word, [and]
thought, by digging into the secrets and bowels of nature, to be admired for
their knowledge above others, that hath befallen them which some­times doth
those in mines that delve too far into the bowels of the earth—a damp from
God’s secret judgment hath come to put out that light which at first hey
carried down with them; and so that of the apostle is verified on them, ‘Where
is the disputer of this world? hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this
world?’ I
Cor. 1:20.  Indeed it is the wisdom of God that the
world by wisdom—their own trusted to —should not know God.

           3.  He that assents to this truth, that
there is a God, merely upon grounds of reason and not of faith, and rests in
that, doth not quench the temptation; for still he is an infidel and a
Scripture atheist.  He doth not
believe there is a God at the report of God’s word, but at the report of his
reason; and so indeed he doth but believe himself and not God, and in that
makes himself a god, preferring the testimony of his own reason before the
testimony of God’s word, which is dangerous.

           Question.  But, may some say, is there no use of
reason in such principles as this which are within its sphere?  May I not make use of my reason to
confirm me in this truth that there is a God?

           Answer.  It is beyond all doubt that there is
[use of reason].  Wherefore else
did God set up such a light if not to guide us?  But it must keep its own place, and that is to follow faith,
not to be the ground of it, or to give law and measure to it.  Our faith must not depend on our
reason, but our reason on faith. I am not to believe what the word saith merely
because it jumps with my reason, but believe my reason be­cause it is suitable
to the word.  The more perfect is
to rule the less.  Now the light of
the word—which faith follows—is more clear or sure than reason is or can be;
for therefore it was written, because man’s natural light was so
defective.  Thou readest in the
word there is a God, and that he made the world. Thy eye of reason sees this
also.  But thou layest the stress
of thy faith on the word, not on thy reason.  And so of other truths.  The carpenter lays his rule to the tim­ber, and by his eye
sees it to be right or crooked; yet, it is not the eye but the rule that is the
measure —without which his eye might fail him.  All that I shall say more to such as are annoyed with
atheistical injections is this, fix thy faith strongly on the word, by which
you shall be able to overcome this Goliath, and when thou art more free and
composed, and the storm is over, thou shalt do well to back thy faith what thou
canst with thy reason.  Let the
word, like David’s stone in the sling of faith, first prostrate the temptation;
and then, as he used Goliath’s sword to cut off his head, so mayest thou with
more ease and safety make use of thy reason to complete the victory over  these atheistical suggestions.

 

[Satan’s second
affrighting temptation

—the fiery dart of blasphemy.]

 

           Second
Dart of affrighting temptations. 
The second fiery dart with which he frightens the Christian is his temptation
to blasphemy.  Every sin, in a
large sense, is blasphemy; but here we take it more strictly.  When a man does, speaks, or thinks
anything derogatory to the holy nature or works of God, with an intent to
reproach him or his ways, this properly is blasphemy.  Job’s wife was the devil’s so­licitor, to provoke her
husband to this sin: ‘Curse God,’ saith she, ‘and die.’  The devil was so impudent {as} to
assault Christ himself with this sin, when he bade him ‘fall down and worship
him.’  But he hath an advantage of
making a nearer approach to a saint than he bade to Christ.  All that he could do to him was to
offend his holy ear with an external motion.  It would not stand with the dignity or holiness of Christ’s
person to let him come any farther. 
But he can shoot this fiery dart into the imagination of a saint, to the
great disturbance of his thoughts, endeav­ouring thereby to stir up some
unworthy thoughts of God in him—though these are commonly no more welcome to a
gracious soul than the frogs which crept into the bed-chamber of Pharaoh were
to him.  Two things Satan aims at
by these injections.  1. To set the
saint a defaming God, which he loves a life to hear. But if this fails, then,
2. He is content to play at lower game, and intends the Christian’s vexation by
forcing these unwelcome guests upon him. 
Now faith, and only faith, can quench these fireballs in both respects.

 

[How faith quenches
the fiery dart of blasphemy,

and Satan’s double design therein.]

 

           First
Design.  Satan aims, by the
stirring up of unholy thoughts, to set the saint a defaming God. There
is a natural disposition in every wicked man to blaspheme God.  Let God but cross a carnal wretch in
this way, and then suffer Satan to edge his corruption, and he will soon flee
in God’s face.  If the devil’s
supposition had been true—as it was indeed most false—that Job was a hypocrite,
then that tale which he brought against him to God would have been true
also—‘Put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse
thee to thy face,’ Job
1:11.
Had Job been the man he took him for, the devil had not lied; because it is
natural to every wicked man to have base thoughts of God; and, when provoked,
the inward rancour of his heart will appear in the foulness of his tongue—‘This
evil is of the Lord; what should I wait for the Lord any longer?’ II Kings 6:33—a loud
blasphemy, the seed of which is found in every un­believer.  There is but one spirit of wickedness
in sin­ners, as but one spirit of grace in saints.  Simon Ma­gus he was ‘in the gall of bitterness,’ Acts 8:23; that is,
in a state of sin.  Every
unbeliever is of a bitter spirit against God and all that bears his name.  There is no trusting of the tamest of
them all, though cooped up by restraining grace.  Let the lion out of his grate and he will soon show his
bloody nature.  An unbeliever hath
no more in him to quench such a temptation, than dry wood hath to quench the
fire that is put to it. But now, let us see what exploits faith can do in quenching
this fiery dart, and how faith does it. Generally it is by keeping the soul
from entertaining any unbecoming or blasphemous thoughts of God; but,

           1.
Faith sets God before the soul—within sight and hearing of all its thoughts
and ways; and this keeps the soul in awe, that it dares harbour nothing
unworthy of God in its most secret thoughts.  David gives the reason why the wicked are so bold, ‘They
have not set thee before them,’ Ps. 54:3. 
Such as de­fame and asperse the name of others do it commonly behind
their backs.  Sin, in this life,
seldom comes to such a ripeness as to blaspheme God to his face.  This is properly the language of hell.  There is a mixture of atheism with the
blasphemy of sinners while on earth. They do with God as those wretched
miscreants did with Christ; they cover his face and then smite him; they draw a
curtain by some atheistical principles betwixt God and them, and then they
belch out their blasphemies against that God whose omniscience they do not
believe.  Now faith eyes God eyeing
the soul, and so preserves it. 
‘Curse not the king,’ saith Solomon,’ ‘no not in thy thought,... nor the
rich in thy bedchamber; for a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that
which hath wings shall tell the matter,’ Ecc. 10:20.  Such kind of language faith useth.  Blas­pheme not, saith faith, O my soul, the God of heaven;
thou canst not whisper it so softly, but the voice is heard in his ear who is
nearer to thee than thou to thyself. 
And thus it breaks the snare the devil lays.  Those unbeseeming speeches which dropped from Job’s mouth,
through the length and extremity of his troubles, though they did not amount to
blasphemy, yet, when God presented himself to him in his majesty, they soon
vanished, and he covered his face with shame before the Lord for them—‘Now mine
eye seeth thee.  Wherefore I abhor
myself, and repent in dust and ashes,’ Job 42:5, 6.

           2.
Faith  credits no report of God
but from God’s own mouth; and thus it quencheth temptations to
blasphemy.  It is impossible that a
soul should have any but holy and loyal thoughts of God, who shapes his
apprehensions of him by the word of God, which is the only true glass to behold
God in, because it alone presents him like himself in all his attributes, which
Satan by this sin of blasphemy one way or other asperses.  Faith conceives its notions of God by
the word, resolves all cases of conscience, and deciphers all providences which
God writes in myster­ious figures, by the word; for want of which skill, Satan
drives the creature very oft to have hard thoughts of God, because he cannot
make presently good sense of his administrations in the world.  Thus, there have been [those] who
foolishly have charged God’s justice, because some outrageous sinners have not
been overtaken with such speedy judgment as they deserve.  Others have charged as deeply his care
and faithfulness in providing no better for his serv­ants, whom they have seen
kept long under the hatches of great afflictions; like him, that seeing a
company of Christians in poor ragged clothes, said he would not serve that God
who kept his servants no better. 
These, and such like, are the broken glasses that Satan presents God in,
that he may disfigure him to the creature's eye; and truly if we will look no
further, but judge God to be what he appears to be by them, we will soon
condemn the holy One, and be within the whirl of this dangerous temptation.

           3.
Faith quenches temptations to blasphemy, as it is praiseful.  It disposeth the Christian to bless God
in the saddest condition that can befall it.  Now these two, blessing and blasphemy, are most
contrary.  By the one we think and
speak evil, and by the other good, of God; and therefore [they] cannot well
dwell under the same roof.  They
are like contrary tunes. They cannot be played on the same instrument with­out
changing all the strings.  It is
past Satan’s skill to strike so harsh a stroke as blasphemy is, on a soul tuned
and set to praise God.  Now faith
doth this, ‘My heart is fixed,’ saith David. There was his faith. Then follows,
‘I will sing and give praise,’ Ps. 57:7. 
It was faith that turned his spirit and set his affections
praise-way.  And would not Satan,
think you, have found it a hard task to have made David blaspheme God while his
heart was kept in a praising frame? Now, two ways faith doth this.

           (1.)
Faith espies mercy in the greatest affliction —an eye of white in the
saddest mixture of provi­dence; so that when the devil provokes to blasphemy
from the evil that the creature receives from God, faith shows more good
received than evil.

           Thus
Job quenched this dart which Satan shot at him from his wife’s tongue.  ‘Shall we receive good at the hand of
God, and shall not we receive evil?’ 
Shall a few present troubles be a grave to bury the remem­brance of all
my past and present mercies?  ‘Thou
speakest as one of the foolish women.’ 
What God takes from me is less than I owe him, but what he leaves me is
more than he owes me.  Solomon bids
us, ‘In the day of adversity consider,’ Ecc. 7:14.  Our unbeseeming thoughts and words of God are the product of
a rash hasty spirit.  Now faith is
a considering grace; ‘He that believeth will not make haste’—no not to think or
speak of God.  Faith hath a good
memory, and can tell the Christian many stories of ancient mercies; and when
his present meal falls short, it can entertain the soul with a cold dish, and
not complain that God keeps a bad house neither.  Thus David recovered himself when he was even tumbling down
the hill of temptation.  ‘This is
my infirmity: but I will remember the years of the right hand of the most
High.  I will remember the works of
the Lord: surely I will remember thy wonders of old,’ Ps. 77:10, 11.  Therefore, Christian, when thou art in
thy depths of affliction, and Satan tempts thee to asperse God as if he were
forgetful of thee, stop his mouth with this, ‘No, Satan, God hath not forgot to
do for me, but I have forgot what he hath done for me, or else I could not
question his fatherly care at present over me!’  Go, Christian, play over thy old lessons.  Praise God for past mercies; and it
will not be long before thou hast a new song put into thy mouth for present
mercy.

           (2.)
As faith spies mercy in every affliction, so it keeps up an expectation in
the soul for more mercy; which confidence disposeth the soul to praise God
for, as if the mercy were then in being. 
Daniel, when in the very shadow of death—the plot the plot laid to take
away his life—‘three times a day he prayed and gave thanks before his God.’  To have heard him pray in that great
strait would not have afforded so much matter of wonder; but to have his heart
in tune for thanksgiving in such a sad hour, this was admirable, and his faith
enabled him, Dan.
6:10.  Mercy in the promise is as the apple in
the seed.  Faith sees it growing
up, the mercy a coming.  Now, a
soul under the expectation of deliverance, how will it scorn a blasphemous
notion!  When relief is known to be
on its way for a garrison besieged, it raiseth their spirits; they will not
then hearken to the traitorous motion of the enemy.  It is when unbelief is the counsellor, and the soul under
doubts and suspicions of God's heart to it, that Satan finds welcome upon such
an errand. An excellent instance for both we have in one chapter, Isa. 8.  We find, ver. 17, what is the effect of faith, and
that is a cheerful waiting on God in straits —‘I will wait upon the Lord, that
hideth his face from the house of Jacob, and I will look for him;’ and, ver. 21, we have
the fruit of unbelief—and that is no less than blasphemy—‘And it shall come to
pass, that when they shall be hungry, they shall fret themselves, and curse
their king and their God, and look upward.’ Faith keeps the believer in a
waiting posture; and unbelief sets the sinner a cursing both God and man.  None escapes his lash that crosseth him
in his way, no, not God himself.

           4.
Faith quenches this fiery dart, by purifying the heart of that enmity
against God which, in man’s cor­rupt nature, is fuel for such a
temptation.  ‘Back­biters, haters
of God, and despiteful,’ are joined together, Rom. 1:30.  No wonder that a man whose spirit is full of rancour against
another, should be easily persuaded to revile him he hates so much. Every
unbeliever is a hater of God, and so is in a dis­position to blaspheme God when
his will or lust is crossed by God. 
But faith slays this enmity of the heart; yea, it works love in the soul
to God, and then works by this love. 
Now it is one property of love ‘to think no evil,’ I Cor. 13:5.  That is, a man will neither plot any
evil against him he loves, nor easily suspect any evil to be plotted by him
against himself.  Love reads the
actions of a friend through such clear glasses of candour and ingenuity, as
will make a dark print seem a fair character.  It interprets all he doth with so much sweetness and
simplicity, that those passages in his behaviour towards her, which to another
would seem intricate and suspicious, are plain and pleasing to her; because she
ever puts the most favourable sense upon all he doth that is possible.  The believer dares not himself plot any
evil of sin against God, whom, from the report that faith hath made of him to
his soul, he loves so dearly.  And,
as love will not suf­fer him to turn traitor against a good God, so neither
will it suffer him to harbour any jealous thoughts of God's heart towards him,
as if he, who was the first lover, and taught the soul to love him by making
love to her, could, after all this, frame any plot of real un­kindness against
it.  No, this thought, though Satan
may force it in a manner upon the Christian, and violently press for its
entertainment, under the advan­tage of some frowning providence, which seems to
countenance such a suspicion, yet it can never find welcome, so far as to be
credited in the soul where love to God hath anything to do.  And surely there is no fear that soul
will be persuaded wickedly to belch out blasphemies against God, who so
abominates but the surmising the least suspicion of God in her most secret
thoughts.

           Second
Design.  Satan aims by these
blasphe­mous temptations to effect the Christian’s trouble and vexation.  Though he doth not find the Christian
so kind as to take these his guests in and give them lodging for his sake, yet
he knows it will not a little disturb and break his rest to have them
continually knocking and rapping at his door; yea, when he can­not pollute the
Christian by obtaining his consent to them, even then he hopes to create him no
little disquiet and distraction, by accusing him for what he will not commit;
and so of a defiler—which rather he would have been—he is forced to turn
slanderous reviler and false accuser. 
Thus the harlot sometimes accuseth the honest man, merely to be avenged
on him because he will not yield to satisfy her lust. Joseph would not lie with
his mistress and she raiseth a horrible lie on him.  The devil is the blasphemer, but the poor Christian, because
he will not join with him in the fact, shall have the name and bear the blame
of it.  As the Jews compelled Simon
of Cyrene to carry Christ’s cross, so Satan would compel the tempted Christian
to carry the guilt of his sin for him. And many time he doth so handsomely, and
with such sleight of hand, shift it from himself to the Christian’s back, that
he, poor creature, perceives not the juggler's art of conveying it unto him,
but goes complaining only of the baseness of his own heart. And as it sometimes
so falls out, that a true man in whose house stolen goods are found suffers,
because he cannot find out the thief that left them there; so the Christian
suffers many sad terrors from the mere presence of these horrid thoughts in his
bosom, because he is not able to say whose they are—whether shot in by Satan,
or the steaming forth of his own naughty heart.  The humble Christian is prone to fear the worst of himself,
even where he is not conscious to himself; like the patriarchs, who, when the
cup was found in Benjamin's sack, took the blame to them­selves, though they
were innocent in the fact.  And
such is the confusion sometimes in the Christian’s thoughts, that he is ready to
charge himself with those brats that should be laid at another door—Satan’s, I
mean.  Now here I shall show you
how faith defeateth this second design of the devil in these blasphemous
motions.  And this it doth two
ways.  1. By helping the Christian
to discern Satan’s injections from the motions of his own heart.  2. By succouring him, though they rise
of his own heart.

           1.
Faith teaches the Christian to discern and dis­tinguish those fireballs of
temptations which are thrown in at his window by Satan, from those sparks of
corruption which fly from his own hearth and take fire at his own sinful heart.  And certainly those blas­phemous
thoughts, of which many gracious souls make such sad complaint, will be found
very often of the former sort, as may the more probably appear if we consider,
(1.) The time when they first stir and are most busy.  (2.) The manner how they
come.  And, (3.) The effect
they have on the Christian’s heart.

           (1.)
The time when they begin to stir and the soul to be haunted with them;
and that is ordinarily when the work of conversion hath newly passed or is
passing on him.  When the creature
falls off from his old sinful course to embrace Christ, and declares for him
against sin and Satan, this is the time when these blasphemous suggestions
begin to make their appari­tion, and those vermin are seen to crawl in the
Christian's bosom—a strong probability that they do not breed there, but are
sent from Satan by way of revenge for the soul's revolt from him.  The devil deals by the Christian in
this, and not much unlike what his own sworn servants—witches, I mean—are known
to do, who to express their spite against those that cross them, sometimes
cause them to swarm with lice, or such kind of vermin, to make them loathsome
to themselves.  And, as one that
never found such vermin crawling about him before, might well wonder to see
himself so suddenly stocked with a multitude of them—yea, might rather impute
it to the witch’s malice than to the corruption of his own body that bred
them—so in this case.  Indeed, it
is very im­probable to think that the creature should in this juncture of time
above all fall so foul with God by sinning against him at such a height as
this.  Is it like­ly that he can,
while he is in tears for the sins of his past life, commit a greater than any
of them he mourns for? or that he dare, while he is crying for pardoning mercy
with a trembling heart, block up the way to his own prayers, and harden God’s
heart into a denial of them, by such horrid sins as these are?  In a word, seems it not strange, that
all the while he was a stranger to, yea an enemy against, God, he durst not
venture on this sin for the prodigious nature of it, and that now he begins to
love God those blasphemies should fit his mouth which were too big and horrid
before for him to meddle with?

           (2.)
The manner how these blasphemies rise in the Christian’s thoughts, will
increase the probability that they are injections from Satan without, rather
than motions of the Christian’s own heart within. They are commonly violent and
sudden.  They come like lightning,
flashing into the Christian’s thoughts before he hath time to deliberate with
himself what he is doing.  Whereas
that lust, which is the ebullition of our own hearts, is ordinarily gradual in
its motion; it moves in a way more still and suitable to man’s nature; it doth
entice the soul, and by degrees slyly inveigles it into a consent; making first
the affections on its side, which then it employeth to corrupt the
understanding, and take it off from appearing against it, by putting its eye
out with some bribe of sensual pleasure and profit; and so, by these paces it
comes at last to have a more easy access to and success over the will, which
being now deprived of her guard, yields the sooner to the summons that lust
makes.  But these sudden dartings
of blasphemous thoughts, they make a forcible entry upon the soul without any
ap­plication used to gain its good-will to come in.  Their driving is like the driving of that hellish Jehu.  It is the devil that is got into the
box; who else could drive so furiously? 
Yea, not only their suddenness and vio­lence, but incoherence with the
Christian’s former thoughts and course, do still heighten the probability that
they are darts shot from the devil's bow. 
Peter was once known to be of Christ’s company by his voice: ‘Thy
speech,’ say they, ‘bewrayeth thee.’ 
He spake like them, therefore he was judged one of them. On the
contrary, we may say of these blasphemous motions, ‘They are not the
Christian’s, their language bewrays them to be rather the belching of a devil
than the voice of a saint.  If they
were woven by the soul, they would be something like the whole piece from which
they are cut off.’  There is
ordinarily a depen­dency in our thoughts. 
We take the hint for one thought from another.  As circle riseth out of circle in the moved water, so doth
thought out of thought, till they spread into a discourse.

           Now,
may not the Christian well wonder to see —may be when he is at he worship of
God, and taken up with holy and heavenly meditations—a blasphe­mous thought on
a sudden appear in the midst of such company to which it is so great a
stranger? and also how it should get in among them?  If a holy thought surpriseth us on a sudden, when we stand
as it were with our back on heaven, and there be nothing in the discourse our
hearts at present are holding to usher it in, we may take it as a pure motion
of the Spirit of Christ.  Who,
indeed, but he, could be so soon in the midst of the soul when the door is
shut, even before the creature can turn his thoughts to open it for him?  And probably these blasphemies, which
rush upon thee, O Christian, at a time when thy soul is at the farthest
distance from such thoughts, yea, sailing to the clean contrary point, in thy
praying to and praising of God, are the irruptions of that wicked one, and that
on purpose to interrupt thee in that work which of all other he fears and hates
most.

           (3.)
The effect these blasphemous notions have on the heart may make us think
they are Satan's brats rather than the birth of the Christian’s own heart; —and
that is a dismal horror and consternation of the Christian's spirit, which
reacheth often to the dis­composure of the body.  So that an apparition of the devil to their bodily eyes
could not affright them more than these blasphemies do that walk in their
imagin­ation.  Yea, they do not
only cause a horror, but stir up a vehement indignation and abhorrency, in the
soul at their presence.  If now
they be the birth of the Christian's own heart, why this horror? whence this
indignation?  Those motions which
arise from our­selves use to please us better.  It is natural for men to love the children of their own
loins though black and deformed; and as natural to like the conceptions of
their own minds.  Solomon found out
the true mother by her tenderness to the child.  If these blas­phemies were the issue of the heart,
familiarity with them might be expected rather than horror at the sight of
them; favour to them rather than abhorrency of them.  Were it not more likely, poor soul, that thou wouldst kiss
them, if thy own, than seek to kill them?—draw out thy breast to nurse and
suckle them, than the sword of the Spirit to destroy them? And if so, saith
faith, that these be Satan's brats, why then art thou troubled because he lays
them at thy door?  Is the chaste
woman the more whore, because some foul tongue calls her so?  Have patience a little, poor soul; the
judge is at the door, and when he comes thou shalt be called by thy right
name.  Sit not thou any longer
wounding thy soul with his dart, and troubling thyself for the devil’s sin, but
go and complain of him to thy God; and when thou hast spread his blasphemies
before the Lord, as Hezekiah did Rabshakeh’s, comfort thyself with this, that
God will spread thy cause against this false accuser, and send him away with as
much shame and as little suc­cess as he did that barking dog who so reviled God
and railed on his people.  But,

           2.
Suppose these blasphemous notions to be the Christian’s own sins, bred in his
own heart, and not the devil’s brats falsely fathered on him; yet here faith relieves
the Christian when distressed with the guilt of them, and Satan labours most to
aggravate them.  Now the succour
faith brings the soul here is manifold.

           (1.)
Succour.  Faith can assure
the soul upon sol­id Scripture bottom that these blasphemous thoughts are
pardonable.  ‘All manner of sin
and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men: but the blasphemy against the Holy
Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men,’ Matt. 12:31.  And it were strange if thy fancy should be so wild and
melancholy as to think thou seest this only unpardonable blasphemy, which is
ever marked on the forehead with final impenitency and desperate hatred against
God, in those loose roving thoughts that never yet could gain any consent from
thy heart to them, but continues to disavow and protest against them.  I say it were very strange That thou
couldst long mistake those unwelcome guests for that wicked sin.  Now, for thy comfort, thou hearest all
manner of blasphemy besides that one shall be forgiven.  Pardon for them may be sued out in the
court of mercy, how terrible and amazing soever their circumstances are to thy
trembling soul.  And if the
creature believes this, Satan's dart is quenched; for his design is to make use
of these temptations as a trap-door by which he may let thy soul down into
despair.

           (2.)
Succour.  Faith resolves the
soul that the ebullition[7] of such
thoughts is not inconsistent with the state of grace; and if the soul be
well satisfied in this point, the devil’s fiery dart hath lost its enven­omed
head, which uses so much to drink up the Christian’s spirits.  The common inference which he makes
tempted souls draw from the presence of these thoughts in them is, ‘Surely I am
not a saint.  This is not the spot
of God’s children.’  But faith is
able to disprove this, and challenges Satan to show—as well-read as he is in
the Scriptures—one place in all the Bible that countenanceth such a conclusion.  Indeed there is none.  It is true the blasphemy of blasphe­mies—I
mean the sin against the Holy Ghost —with this the evil one shall never touch a
true believer.  But I know no kind
of sin, short of that, from which he hath any such protection or immunity, as
makes it impossible he should for a time be foiled by it.  The whole body of sin indeed is
weakened in every be­liever, and a deadly wound given by the grace of God to
his corrupt nature, which it shall never claw off, but at last die by it.  Yet as a dying tree may bear some fruit,
though not so much, nor that so full and ripe, as before; and a dying man may
move his limbs, though not so strongly as when he was in health; so original
corruption in a saint will be stirring, though but feebly, and showing its
fruit, though it be but crump­ted and unripe.  And thou hast no cause to be dis­couraged that it stirs; but
to be comforted that it can but stir. 
O be thankful thou hast got thy enemy, who even now was master of the
field, and had thee tied to his triumphant chariot, now himself on his knees un­der
the victorious sword of Christ and his grace, ready to drop into his grave,
though lifting up his hand against thee to show his enmity continues when his
power fails to do execution as he would.

           (3.)
Succour.  Faith can clear it
to the soul that these blasphemous thoughts, as they are commonly entertained
in a saint, are not so great sins in God’s account as some other that pass
for less in our ac­count.  The
Christian commonly contracts more guilt by a few proud, unclean, covetous
thoughts than by many blasphemous ones, because the Christian sel­dom gets a so
clear a victory over those as over these of blasphemy.  The fiery darts of blasphemy may scare
Christians more, but fiery lusts wound sooner and deeper.  It was the warm sun made the traveller
open his cloak which the blustering wind made wrap closer to him.  Temptations of pleasure entice the
heart to them, whereas the horrid nature of the other stirs up the Christian to
a more valiant resistance of them. 
O, the Christian is soon overtaken with these; they are like poison in
sweet wine, they are down before he is aware, and diffuse apace into his affec­tions,
poisoning the Christian’s spirits. 
But these of blasphemy are like poison in some bitter potion; either it
is spit out before it is down, or vomited up by the Christian before it hath
spread itself far into his affections. 
Sins are great or small by the share the will hath in the acting of them.  And blasphemous thoughts, commonly having
less of the Christian’s will and affections in them than the other, cannot be a
greater sin.

           (4.)
Succour.  Faith tells the
soul that God may have, yea, undoubtedly hath, gracious ends in suffer­ing
him to be haunted with such troublesome guests, or else they should not be sent
to quarter on him. Possibly God saw some other sin thou wert in great
danger of, and he sends Satan to trouble thee with these temptations, that he
may not overcome thee in the other. 
And though a plaster or poultice be very offensive and loathsome, yet
better endure that a while than a disease that will hazard thy life.  Better tremble at the sight of
blasphemous thoughts than strut thyself in the pride of thy heart at the sight
of thy gifts and privileges.  The
first will make thee think thyself as vile as the devil himself in thy own
eyes; but the other will make thee prodigiously wicked and so indeed like the
devil in God's eyes.

           (5.)
Succour.  Faith will put the
Christian on some noble exploits for God, thereby to vindicate himself, and
prove the devil's charge a lie, as one that is accused for some traitorous
design against his prince, to wipe off that calumny doth undertake some notable
enterprise for the honour of his prince. 
This indeed is the fullest revenge the Christian can take either of
Satan for troubling him with such injections, or [of] his own heart for issuing
out such impure streams.  When
David preferred Saul’s life in the cave above a kingdom, which one hearty blow
might have procured him, he proved all his enemies liars that had brought him
under a suspicion at court.  Thus,
Chris­tian, do thou but prefer the honour of God when it cometh in competition
with sin and self, and thou wilt stop the devil’s mouth, who is sometimes ready
to make thee jealous of thyself as if thou wert a blasphemer.  Such heroic acts of zeal and self‑denial
would speak more for thy purgation before God and thy own conscience than these
sudden thoughts can do against thee.

 

[Satan’s third
affrighting temptation

—the fiery dart of despair.]

 

           Third
Dart of affrighting temptations. 
The third fiery dart which Satan lets fly at the Christian is his
temptation to despair.  This
cursed fiend thinks he can neither revenge himself further on God, nor en­grave
his own image deeper on the creature, than by this sin; which at once casteth
the greatest scorn upon God, and brings the creature nearest the complexion of
devils and damned souls, who, by lying continually under the scorching wrath of
God, in hell’s horrid zone, are blacked all over with despair.  This is the sin that of all Satan
chiefly aims at.  Other sins are
but as previous dispositions to introduce that, and make the creature more
receptive for such a tempta­tion. 
As the wool hath a tincture of some lighter col­ours given it before it
can be dyed into a deep grain, so Satan hath his more lightsome and pleasant
sins, which he at first entices to, that he may the better dis­pose the
creature to this.  But this is kept
by him as a great secret from the creature's knowledge.  The devil is too cunning a fowler to
lay his net in the bird’s sight he means to take.  Despair is the net. 
Other sins are but the shrap, whereby he covers it, and so flatters them
into it, which done, he hath them safe to eternity.  This, above all sins, puts a man into a kind of actual
possession of hell.  Other sins
bind over to wrath, whereby he covers it, but this gives fire to the
threatening, and sets the soul on a light flame with horror.  As it is faith’s excellency to give a
being to the word of promise; so it is the cruelty of despair that it gives an
existence to the torments of hell in the con­science.  This is the arrow that drinks up the spirit, and makes the
creature executioner to itself. 
Despair puts a soul beyond all relief; the offer of a pardon comes too
late to him that hath turned himself off the ladder.  Other temptations have their way to escape. Faith and hope
can open a window to let out the smoke that offends the Christian in any
condition, be it at present never so sad and sorrowful; but then the soul must
needs be choked, when it is shut up within the despairing thoughts of its own
sins, and no crevice left to be an outlet to any of that horror with which they
fill him.

 

How faith quenches
the fiery dart of

despair drawn from the greatness of sin.]

 

           I
might here instance in those many media or arguments Satan useth to dispute
souls into despair from, and how able faith, and only faith, is to answer and
refel[8] them.  But I shall content myself with one to
dilate upon—which is the chief of all Satan’s strength—and that is taken from
all the greatness and multitude of the creature’s sins.  This when the crea­ture is enlightened
to see, and hath the brawniness of its conscience pared off to feel with
remorse, and then God but do allow Satan to use his rhetoric in declaiming
against the heinousness of them, it must needs be in a doleful condition, and
of necessity sink into the depths of despair, for all the help it can find from
itself within or any other creature without doors. Perhaps some of you, who
have slighty thoughts of your own sins, think it proves but a childish impotent
spirit in others to be so troubled for theirs; and in this you show that you
never were in Satan’s stocks pinched by his temptations.  Those who have will speak in another
language, and tell you that the sins which are unfelt by you  have lain like a mountain of lead upon
their spirits.  O, when a breach is
once made in the conscience, and the waves of guilt pour in amain upon the
soul, it soon overtops all the crea­ture’s shifts and apologies, as the flood
did the old world, that covered the tallest trees and the highest
mountains.  As nothing then was
visible but sea and heaven; so in such a soul, nothing but sin and hell. His
sins stare him on the face, as with the eyes of so many devils, ready to drag
him into the bottomless pit.  Every
silly fly dares creep upon the lion while asleep, whose voice all the beasts in
the forest tremble at when he awakes. 
Fools can make a mock of sin when conscience’ eye is out or shut.  They can then dance about it, as the
Philistines about blind Samson. But when God arms sin with guilt, and causeth
this serpent to put forth his sting upon the conscience, then the proudest
sinner of them all flees before it. Now it is faith that alone can grapple with
sin in its strength; which it doth several ways.  First. Faith gives the soul a view of the great
God.  Second. Faith quenches
this fiery dart of despair drawn from the greatness of sin, by opposing to that
the greatness of the promises.  Third.
Faith teaches the soul to oppose the greatness of this one sin of despair to
the great­ness of all its other sins.

 

[To the greatness of
sin, faith opposes

a
view of the great God.]

 

           First.  Faith gives the soul a view of the
great God.  It teacheth the
soul to set his almightiness against sin’s magnitude, and his infinitude
against sin’s multitude; and so quencheth temptation.  The reason why the presumptuous sinner fears so little, and
the despairing soul so much, is for want of know­ing God as great.  Therefore, to cure them both, the
serious consideration of God under this notion is pro­pounded.  ‘Be still, and know that I am God,’ Ps. 46:10.  As if he had said, ‘Know, O ye wicked,
that I am God, who can avenge myself when I please upon you, and cease to
provoke me by your sins to your own confusion.’  Again, ‘Know ye, trembling souls, that I am God, and
therefore able to pardon the greatest sins; and cease to dishonour me by your
un­believing thoughts of me.’  Now
faith alone can thus show God to be God. 
Two things are required to the right conceiving of God.

           1.
In order to the right conceiving of God, we must give him the infinitude of
all his attributes; that is, conceive of him not only as wise—for that may
be a man’s name—but infinitely wise; not mighty, but almighty, &c.

           2.
This infinitude which we give to God, we must deny to all besides him, what
or whosoever they be.  Now
faith alone can realize and fix this principle so in the heart that the
creature shall act suitably there­unto. 
Indeed, none are so wicked who will not say, if you will believe them,
that they believe that God is infinite in his knowledge, and omnipresent—at
their heels wherever they go; infinite in his power, needing no more to effect
their ruin than his speaking it. 
But, would they then in the view of these go and sin so boldly?  They durst as well run their heads into
a fiery oven, as do it in the face of such a principle.  So others; they believe God is infinite
in mercy.  But, would they then
carry a hell flaming in their bosoms with despair, while they have infinite
mercy in their eye?  No, it is
plain God appears not in his true greatness to such.  Despair robs God of his infinitude and ascribes it to
sin.  By it the creature saith his
sin is infinite and God is not—too like those unbelieving Israelites: ‘They
remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even
at the Red sea,’ Ps.
106:7.  They could not see enough in God to
serve their turn in such a strait; they saw a multi­tude of Egyptians to kill,
and multitude of waters to drown them, but could not see multitude enough of
mercies to deliver them.  Thus the
despairing sees multitude of great sins to damn, but not an infinitude of mercy
to save him.   Reason, alas!
is low of stature, like Zaccheus, and cannot see mercy in a crowd and press of
sins.  It is faith alone that
climbs the prom­ise; then and not till then will the soul see Jesus. Faith
ascribes mercy to God with an overplus, ‘He will abundantly pardon,’ Isa. 55:7—multiply
to pardon, so the Hebrew.  He
will drop pardons with our sins which are most.  ‘He will subdue our iniquities, and thou wilt cast all their
sins into the depths of the sea’. This is faith's language; he will  pardon with an over­flowing mercy.  Cast a stone into the sea, and it is
not barely covered, but buried many fathom deep.  God will pardon thy greatest sins, saith faith, as the sea
doth a little pebble thrown into it. 
A few sins poured out upon the conscience—like a pail of water spilt
upon the ground—seems like a great flood; but the greatest poured into the sea
of God’s mercy are swal­lowed up and not seen.  Thus, when ‘the iniquity of Israel shall be sought for,’ the
Scripture saith, ‘and there shall be none; and the sins of Judah, and they
shall not be found.’ And why so? 
‘For I will pardon,’ Jer. 50:20. 
There is the reason.

           Objection.  ‘O but,’ saith the trembling soul, ‘the
consideration of God’s infinitude, especially in two of his attributes, drives me fastest to despair.  Of all other my perplexed thoughts,
when I think how in­finitely holy God is, may I not fear what will
become of an unholy wretch?  When
again, I look upon him as just, yea, infinitely just, how can I think he
will re­mit so great wrongs as I have done to his glorious name?’

           Answer.  Faith will, and none but faith’s
fingers can, untie this knot, and give the soul a satisfactory answer to this
question.

           1.
Attribute.—The holiness of God. 
For this at­tribute faith hath two things to answer.

           Answer.
(1.) That though the infinite holiness of God’s nature doth make him
vehemently hate sin, yet the same doth strongly incline his heart to show mercy
to sinners.  What is it in the
creature that makes him hard-hearted but sin?  ‘The tender mer­cies of the wicked are cruel,’ Prov. 12:10.  If wicked then cruel, and the more holy
the more merciful. Hence it is that acts of mercy and forgiveness are with so
much difficulty drawn, many times, from those that are saints; even like milk
out of awarded breast; because there are remainders of corruption in them,
which cause some have hardness of heart and unwill­ingness to that work.  ‘Be not overcome of evil, but overcome
evil with good,’ Rom.
12:21—implying
it is a hard work, which cannot be done till a victory be got over the
Christian’s own heart; which hath contrary passions, that will strongly oppose
such an act.  How oft, alas! do we
hear such language as this from those that are gracious!  ‘My patience is spent; I can bear no
longer, and forgive no more.’  But
God, who is purity without dross, holiness without the least allay and mixture
of sin, hath nothing to sour his heart into any unmercifulness.  ‘If ye then, being evil,’ saith Christ,
‘know how to give good gifts unto your chil­dren, how much more shall your
Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?’ Matt. 7:11.  Christ’s design in this place is to
help them to larger apprehensions concerning the mercifulness of God's heart;
which that he may do, he directs them to the thoughts of his holiness as that
which would infal­libly demonstrate the same.  As if Christ had said, ‘Can you persuade your hearts,
distempered with sinful passions, to be kind to your children? how much more
easy is it to think that God, who is holiness itself, will be so to his poor
creatures pros­trate at his feet for mercy?’

           (2.)
Faith can tell the soul that the holiness of God is no enemy to pardoning
mercy; for it is the holiness of God that obligeth him to be faithful in
all his promises.  And this,
indeed, is as full a breast of consolation as I know any to a poor trembling
soul. When the doubting soul reads those many precious promises which are made
to returning sinners, why doth he not take comfort in them?  Surely it is be­cause the truth and
faithfulness of God to perform them is yet under some dispute in his soul.  Now the strongest argument that faith
hath to put this ques­tion out of doubt, and make the sinner accept the promise
as a true and faithful word, is that which is taken from the holiness of God,
who is the promise-maker.  It must
be true, saith faith, what the promise speaks; it can be no other, because a
holy God makes it.  Therefore, God,
to gain the more credit to the truth of his promise in the thoughts of his
people, prefixeth so often this attribute to his promise, ‘I will help thee,
saith the Lord, and thy redeemer, the Holy One of Israel,’ Isa. 41:14That which
in the Hebrew is mercies, in the Septuagint is often J� ÓF\"—holy
things.  See Isa. 55:3.  Indeed the mercies of God are founded
in holiness, and therefore are sure mercies. The reason of man’s unfaithfulness
in promises pro­ceeds from some unholiness in his heart.  The more holy a man is, the more faithful
we may expect him to be.  A good
man, we say, will be as good as his word. To be sure a good God will.  How many times did La­ban change
Jacob’s wages after promise?  But
God’s covenant with him was inviolably kept, though Jacob was not so faithful on
his part as he ought—and why? but because he had to do with a holy God in this,
but with a sinful man in the other, whose passions altered his thoughts and
changed his countenance towards him; as we see the clouds and wind do the face
of the heavens and temper of the seasons.

           2.
Attribute.  We come to the
second attribute which scares the tempted soul, and seems so little to befriend
this pardoning act of God's mercy; and that is his justice.  This proves often matter of amazement
to the awakened sinner rather than encouragement, especially when the serious
thoughts of it possess his heart. 
Indeed, my brethren, the naked consideration of this attribute rent from
the other, and the musing on it without a gospel-comment—through which alone it
can be safely and comfortably viewed by a sin‑smitten soul—must needs appall
and dispirit him, whoever he be, yea, kindle a fire of horror in his bosom; for
the creature, seeing no way that God hath to vindicate his provoked justice but
by the eternal destruction and damnation of the sinner, cannot, without a
universal consternation of all the powers of his soul, think of that attribute
which brings to his thoughts so fearful an expectation and looking for of
judgment.  Heman, though a holy
man, yet even lost his wits with musing on this sad subject.  ‘While I suf­fer thy terrors I am
distracted,’ Ps.
88:15, 16.  But faith can make good work of this
also.  Faith will enable the soul
to walk in this fiery attribute with his comforts unsinged, as those three
worthies, Dan.
3,
in the flaming furnace; while unbelieving sinners are scorched, yea, swallowed
up into despair, when they do but come in their thoughts near the mouth of it.
There is a threefold consideration
with which faith relieves the soul when the terror of this attribute takes hold
on it.  (1.) Faith shows, and this
on the best evidence, that God may pardon the greatest sinner, if penitent and
believing, without the least prejudice to his justice.  (2.) Faith goes farther, and shows that
God, in par­doning the believing sinner, doth not only save his justice, but
advance the honour of it.  (3.)
Faith shows that God doth not only save and advance his justice in pardoning a
believing soul; but, as things stand now, he hath no other way to secure his
justice but by pardoning the believing soul his sins.  Be they never so great.  These three well digested, will render this attribute as
amiable, lovely, and comfortable to the thoughts of a believer, as that of
mercy itself.

 

[A threefold
consideration with which faith

relieves the soul
from terror of God’s justice.]

 

           Consideration
1.  Faith shows to the soul—and
that upon the best evidence—that God may pardon its sins, though never so
great and mountainous, with safety to the justice of God.  That question is not now to be
disputed, whether God can be just and righteous in pardoning sinners.  This, saith faith, was debated and
determined long ago, at the council‑board of heaven by God himself, before so
much as a vote, yea, a thought, could pass from God’s heart for the benefit of
poor sinners.  God expresseth thus
much in the promise: ‘I will betroth thee unto me for ever; yea, I will betroth
thee unto me in righteousness, and in judgment,’ Hosea 2:19.  Who is this that God means to marry?
one that had played the whore, as appears by the former part of the
chapter.  What doth he mean by
betrothing?  No other but that he
will pardon their sins, and receive them into the arms of his love and peculiar
favour.  But how can the righteous
God take one that hath been a filthy strumpet into his bosom? —betroth such a
whorish people, pardon such high-climbing sins?  How?  Mark, he
will do it ‘in judg­ment and in righteousness.’  As if God had said, ‘Trouble not your thoughts to clear my
justice in the act.  I know what I
do.  The case is well weighed by
me.  It is not like the sudden
matches that are hud­dled up by men in one day, and repented of on the next;
but is the result of the counsel of my holy will so to do.’  Now when Satan comes full mouth against
the believer with this objection, ‘What! such a wretch as thou find favour in
the eyes of God?’ faith can easily retort, ‘Yes, Satan, God can be as righteous
in par­doning me as in damning thee. 
God tells me it is ‘in judgment and in righteousness.’  I leave thee there­fore to dispute this
case out with God, who is able to justify his own act.’

           Now,
though this in the lump were enough to re­fel Satan, yet faith is provided with
a more particular evidence, for the vindication of the justice and righ­teousness
of God in this pardoning act.  And
this is founded on the full satisfaction which Christ hath given to God for all
the wrong the believer hath done him by his sin.  Indeed, it was the great undertaking of Christ to bring
justice to kiss mercy, that there might not be a dissenting attribute in God
when this vote should pass, but the act of pardoning mercy carried clear, nullo
contradicente—without a dis­sentient voice.  Therefore, Christ, before he solicits the sinner’s cause
with God by request, performs first the other of satisfaction by
sacrifice.  He pays, and then
prays for what he hath paid—presenting his peti­tion in the behalf of believing
sinners written with his own blood, that so justice might not disdain to read
or grant it.  I will not dispute
whether God could by a prerogative mercy, without a satisfaction, have issued
out an act of pardon; but in this way of satis­faction, the righteousness of
God, I am sure, may be vindicated in the conscience of the greatest sinner on
earth; yea, the devil himself is but a faint disputant when faith pinches him
with this argument; it is a trench which he is not able to climb.  Indeed, God laid our salvation in this
method, that even we weak ones might be able to justify him, in justifying us,
to the head of the most malicious devil in hell.  Peruse that incomparable place, which hath balm enough in it
to heal the wounds of all the bleeding consciences in the world, where there is
but faith to drop it in; and for ever to quench the fire of this dart, which is
headed with the justice of God. 
‘Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in
Christ Jesus: whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his
blood, to declare his righteous­ness for the remission of sins that are past,
through the forbearance of God; to declare, I say, at this time his
righteousness: that he might be just, and the justi­fier of him which believeth
in Jesus,’ Rom.
3:24-26.  O what work will faith make of this
scripture!  A soul castled with
these walls is impregnable.

           (a)
Observe, Christ is here called a propitiation, or, if you will, a
propitiatory—Ê8"FJZD4@<—alluding  to the mercy‑seat, where God promised to meet his people
that he might converse with them, and no dread from his majesty fall upon them,
Ex. 25.  Now, you know,  the mercy‑seat was placed over the ark,
to be a cover thereunto, it being the ark wherein the holy law of God was kept,
from the violation of which all the fears of a guilty soul arise.  Therefore it is observ­able that the
dimensions of the one were propor­tioned to the other.  The mercy-seat was to be as long and
broad to the full as the ark was, that no part thereof might be unshadowed by
it, ver.
10, compared with ver. 17. 
Thus, Christ our true propitiatory covers all the law, which else would come
in to accuse the believer; but not one threatening now can arrest him, so long
as this screen remains for faith to interpose between God's wrath and the
soul.  Justice now hath no mark to
level at.  God cannot see the
sinner for Christ that hides him. 
‘this is not the man,’ saith wrath, ‘that I am to strike.  See how he flees to Christ, and takes
sanctuary in his satisfaction, and so is got out of my walk and reach, that
being a privileged place where I must not come to arrest any.’  It is usual, you know, in battles to
wear a riband, hand­kerchief, or some such thing, to distinguish friends from
foes.  Christ’s satisfaction worn
by faith is the sign that distinguisheth God's friends from his ene­mies.  The scarlet thread on Rahab's window
kept the destroying sword out of her house; and the blood of Christ, pleaded by
faith, will keep the soul from receiving any hurt at the hands of divine
justice.

           (b)
Observe what hand Christ hath his com­mission from: ‘whom God hath set
forth to be a pro­pitiation through faith in his blood.’  Christ, we see, is the great ordinance
of heaven; him the Father hath sealed; he is singled out from all others,
angels and men, and set forth as the person chosen of God to make atonement for
sinners, as the lamb was taken out of the flock and set apart for the
passover.  When, therefore, Satan's
sets forth the believer’s sins in battle‑array against him, and confronts him
with their greatness, then faith runs under the shelter of this castle into the
holes of this rock.  Surely, saith
faith, my Saviour is infinitely greater than my greatest sins. I should impeach
the wisdom of God's choice to think otherwise.  God, who knew what a heavy burden he had to lay upon his
shoulders, was fully satisfied of his strength to bear it.  He that refused sacrifice and burnt‑offering
for their insufficiency, would not have called him had he not been all‑sufficient
for the work. Indeed, here lies the weight of the whole building; a weak faith
may save, but a weak saviour cannot. 
Faith hath Christ to plead for it, but Christ hath none to plead for
him.  Faith leans on Christ's arm,
but Christ stood upon his own legs, and if he had sunk under the burden of our
sins, he had been past the reach of any creature in heaven or earth to help him
up.

           (c)
Observe the why God chose this way of issu­ing out his pardoning mercy;
and that is ‘to declare his righ­teousness for the remission of sins.’  Mark! not to declare his mercy.  That is obvious to every eye.  Every one will believe him merciful
that is for­giving.  But, to
conceive how God should be righteous in forgiving sinners—this lies more remote
from the creature’s apprehensions, and therefore it is ingeminated and
repeated, ‘To declare, I say, at this time his righteousness: that he might be
just, and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus,’ ver. 26.  As if God had said, ‘I know why it
seems so incredible, poor sinners, to your thoughts, that I should pardon all
your iniquities, so great and many. 
You think, because I am a righteous God, that I will sooner damn a
thousand worlds of sinners than asperse my justice, and bring my name under the
least suspicion of unrighteousness, and that thought is most true.  I would indeed damn them over and over
again, rather than stain the honour of my justice—which is myself. But I
declare, yea, again I declare it, and command you and the greatest sinners on
earth, upon pain of damnation, to believe it, that I can be just, and yet the
justifier of those sinners who believe in Jesus.’  O what boldness may the believer take at this news! Methinks
I see the soul that was even now pining to death with despair, and lotting upon
hell in his thoughts—as one already free among the dead—now revive and grow
young again at these tidings; as Jacob, when he heard Joseph was alive.  ‘What?  Is justice —the only enemy I feared, and attribute in God’s
heart which my thoughts fled from—now become my friend!  Then cheer up, my soul, who shall
condemn if God justifies?  And how
can God himself be against thee, when his very justice acquits thee?’

           Objection.  But Satan will not thus leave the
soul.  Dost thou, poor creature,
saith he, believe this strange divinity? 
Is it just for God to pardon thee for the satisfaction that another
makes?  One man com­mit the murder,
and another man that is innocent hanged for it!—call, you this just?  The law demands the person sinning to
be delivered up to justice.  We
find no mention of a surety to be allowed by the cov­enant: ‘In the day that
thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.’

           Answer
(a).  Faith teaches the soul to
acquiesce in the declaration that God makes of his own mind. Now, though
the threatening at first acquaints us with the sinner’s name only, yet faith
finds a gracious re­laxation of that threatening in the gospel covenant, where,
to the believer's everlasting comfort, God promiseth to accept the sinner’s
debt at Christ’s hand, whom therefore we find arrested upon our action.  ‘He was wounded for our transgressions,
he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him;
and with his stripes we are healed,’ Isa. 53:5.  Here is bottom strong enough for faith to rest on.  And why should we, shallow crea­tures,
ruffle gospel truths, to the ensnarling our own thoughts, by thinking to fathom
the bottomless depths of God’s justice with the short cordage of our reason,
which we see dunced by the meanest piece of God's work of creation?  Faith spies a devil in this beautiful
serpent, Reason, which, for its smooth tongue, Satan useth on a mischievous
design to un­dermine, as other, so in particular, this one most sweet and
fundamental truth of the gospel—I mean the satisfaction of Christ; and
therefore faith protests against the illegality of reason’s court.  What indeed hath reason to call before
her lower bench these mys­teries of our faith, that are purely supernatural,
and so not under her cognizance? 
And O that those, in this proud age of ours, would consider it, who go
to law, as I may so say, with the highest gospel truths, before this heathen
judge, Reason! whereby they evac­uate one great end of the gospel, which is to
sacrifice our shallow reason on faith’s altar, that so we might give the more
signal honour to the truth of God, in believing the high mysteries of the
gospel upon this naked report of them in the word, though our own reason with
its little span cannot comprehend them.

           Answer
(b).  The believer can clear
God as just in receiving the debt as Christ's hand, from that near union that
is betwixt Christ and his people. 
The husband may lawfully be arrested for his wife’s debt, because this
union is voluntary; and it is to be sup­posed he did, or ought to have
considered, what her estate was, before he contracted so near a relation to
her.  A suit may justly be
commenced against a surety, because it was his own act to engage for the
debt.  To be sure Christ was most
free in engaging himself in the sinner's cause.  He knew what a sad plight man’s nature was in; and he had an
absolute freedom to please himself in his choice, whether he would leave man to
perish, or lend his helping hand towards his recovery.  He had also an absolute power of his
own life, which no mere creature hath; so that being his own offer—upon his
Father’s call—to take our nature in marriage, thereby to interest himself in
our debt, and for the payment of it, to disburse and pour out his own precious
blood to death; how dare proud flesh call the justice of God to the bar, and
bring his righteousness in this transaction into question, for which God
promised himself the highest expression of love and thankfulness at his
creature’s hands?

           Consideration
2.  Faith doth not only bear
witness to the justice of God, that he may pardon a poor believing sinner, and
yet be just; but it shows that he may advance the honour of his justice
by pardoning the believing soul, more than in damning the impenitent sinner.  And surely God had no less design in
the gospel-covenant than this.  He
that would not the death of a sinner but to vindicate his justice, would not
certainly have consented to the death of his only Son, but for the higher
advance and further glorifying of his justice in the eye of his crea­ture.  Christ saith he came not only that we
sinners ‘might have life,’ but that we might ‘have it more ab­undantly,’ John 10:10—that is,
more abundantly than we should have inherited it from innocent Adam. May we not
therefore say, that Christ did not die that God might only have his due debt,
but that he might have it more abundantly paid by Christ, than he could have
had it at the creature's hands? 
But more partic­ularly the justice of God will appear here clothed with
four glorious circumstances, that cannot be found in the payment which the
sinner by his own personal sufferings makes unto it.

           (a)
If we consider the person at whose hand divine justice receives
satisfaction.  When the sinner
is damned for his own sins, it is but a poor sorry crea­ture that is punished;
but, when Christ suffereth, the debt is paid by a more honourable hand: God
hath it from one who is near to himself, yea, equal with him­self.  ‘Awake, O sword, against my shepherd,
and against the man that is my fellow, saith the Lord of hosts,’ Zech. 13:7.  Who will not say a judge gives more
eminent testimony of his justice, when he condemns his own son, than when he
arraigns a stranger?  Here God
indeed declared his utmost hatred to sin, and inflexible love to justice, in
that he spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all.

           (b)
If we consider the manner how the debt is paid.  When the sinner is damned, it is in a
poor beg­garly way by retail; now a few pence, and then a few more.  He is ever paying, but never comes to
the last farthing, and therefore must for ever lie in prison for non-payment.  But, at Christ’s hands God receives all
the whole debt in one lump, so that Christ could truly say, ‘It is finished,’ John 19:30—as much as
if he had said, There are but a few moments, and the work of redemption will be
finished.  I ave the sum now in my
hand to pay God his whole debt, and as soon as I have bowed my head, and the
breath is once out of my body, all will be finished.  Yea, he hath his dis­charge for the receipt of the whole sum
due to God’s justice from the mouth of God himself, in which we find him
triumphing.  ‘He is near that
justifieth me; who will contend with me?’ Isa. 50:8.  Yea, still more, Christ hath not only discharged the old
debt, but by the same blood hath made a new purchase of God for his saints; so
that God, who was even now the cred­itor, is become the debtor to his creature,
and that for no less than eternal life, which Christ hath paid for, and given
every believer authority, humbly to claim of God in his name.  See them both in one place.  ‘But this man, after he had offered one
sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God; from henceforth
expecting till his enemies be made his footstool.  For by one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are
sanctified,’ Heb.
10:12-14.  He hath not only crossed the debt-book
for believers, but per­fected them for ever; that is, made as certain provi­sion
for their perfection in glory, as for their salvation from hell’s
punishment.  From which he exhorts
them to ‘draw near in full assurance of faith,’ ver. 22.  Let us not fear but we shall receive at God’s hands what
Christ hath paid for.

           (c)
When God damns the sinner, his justice indeed appears—those condemned
miscreants have not one righteous syllable to charge their judge withal —but
mercy is not seen to sit so glorious on the throne, in this sentence pronounced
on the sinner. But when Christ suffered, justice had mercy met. Indeed
justice appears never more orient in God or man than when it is in conjunction
with mercy.  Now in the Lord
Christ’s death they shone both in all their glory, and did mutually set off
each the other.  Here the white and
the red—the roses and the lilies—were so admirably tempered, that it is hard to
say which presents the face of justice most beautiful to our eye, God’s wrath
upon Christ for us, or his mercy to us for his sake.

           (d)
When God damns the sinner, justice is glori­fied only passively.  God forceth his glory from devils and
damned souls; but they do not willingly pay the debt.  They acknowledge God just, because they can do no other, but
at the same time they hate him, while they seem to vindicate him.  Now, in the satis­faction that Christ
gives, justice is glorified actively, and that both from Christ—who was
not dragged to the cross, or hauled to his sufferings, as the damned are to
their prison and torment, but ‘gave himself for us an offering and a sacrifice
to God,’ Eph.
5:2;
suf­fering as willingly for us as ever we sinned against him —and also from
believing souls, who now sing praises to the mercy and justice of God that
redeemed them, and will for ever in heaven run division on the same note.  Now by how much the voluntary
sufferings of Christ are better than the forced torments of the damned; and the
cheerful praises of the saints in heaven more melodious in God’s ear than the
extorted acknowledgments of damned souls in hell; by so much the justice of God
is more glorified by Christ’s sufferings than theirs.  O what incomparable boldness may this send the soul withal
to the throne of grace —who, when he is begging pardon for Christ’s sake, may,
without any hazard to his eternal salvation, say, ‘Lord, if my damnation will
glorify thy justice more, or so much, as the death of Christ for me hath done,
and the everlasting praises which my thankful heart shall resound in heaven to
the glory of all thy attributes for my salvation, will do, let me have that
rather than this.’

           Consideration
3.  Faith doth not only see
justice preserved, yea, advanced in this act of pardoning mer­cy; but it
will tell the soul, and can make good what it saith, that God, as things now
stand, cannot be just, if he doth not pardon the sins of a repenting, believ­ing
soul, how great soever they have been.  One great part of justice consists in a faithful and
punctual performance of promises; he is, we say, a just man that keeps his
word.  And, can God be a just God
if he doth not?  The word is gone
out of his mouth that he will forgive such.  Yea, he is willing to be ac­counted just or unjust by us, as
he makes perform­ance thereof.  See
where he lays this his attribute to pawn upon this very account—‘If we confess
our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us
from all unrighteousness,’ I John 1:9. 
He doth not say merciful, but ‘just,’ as the attribute which we
most fear should vote against us. 
This he would have us know is bound for the performance of the
promise.  It was mercy in God to
make the promise; but justice to perform what mercy hath promised. ‘Thou wilt
perform the truth to Jacob, and the mercy to Abraham,’ Micah 7:20.  God was not bound to make a promise to
Abraham and his seed; but having once passed his word to him, it was ‘truth to
Jacob,’ who was heir to that bond which God had left in his father’s hand.

 

[To the greatness of
sin faith opposes

the
greatness of the promises.]

 

           Second.  Faith quenches this temptation to des­pair,
drawn from the greatness of sin, by opposing the greatness of the promises
to sin’s greatness.  Faith only
can see God in his greatness; and therefore none but faith can see the promises
in their greatness, be­cause the value of promises is according to the worth of
him that makes them.  Hence it
comes to pass that promises have so little efficacy on an unbelieving heart,
either to keep from sin, or to comfort under terror for sin.  Promises are like the clothes we wear,
which, if there be heat in the body to warm them, then they will warm us; but
if they receive no heat from the body, they give none to it.  Where there is faith to chase the
promise, there the promise will af­ford comfort and peace abundantly; it will
be as a strong cordial glowing with inward joy in the crea­ture’s bosom; but on
a dead unbelieving heart it lies cold and ineffectual; it hath no more effect
on such a soul than a cordial which is poured sown a dead man’s throat hath on
him.  The promises have not comfort
actually and formally as fire hath heat; then it were only going to
them, and we should be warm, taking them up in our thoughts and we should be
comforted; but virtually as fire is in the flint, which requires some
labour and art to strike it out and draw it forth.  Now none but faith can learn us this skill of drawing out
the sweetness and virtue of the promise, which it doth these three ways among
many others: —1. Faith leads the soul to the spring‑head of the promises, where
it may stand with best advantage to take a view of their greatness and
preciousness.  2. Faith attends to
the end of the promises, which gives a further prospect of their greatness.  3. Faith pre­sents the Christian with a
cloud of witnesses to which the promise hath been fulfilled, and these as great
sinners as himself.

 

[Three ways by which faith teaches
the soul

to draw out the
virtue of the promises.]

 

           1.
Way.  Faith leads the
soul to the spring‑head of the promises, where it may stand with best advan­tage,
to take a view of their greatness and precious­ness.  Indeed we understand little of things till we trace them to
their originals and can see them lying in their causes.  Then a soul will know his sins to be
great when he sees them in their spring and source flowing from an envenomed
nature that teems with enmity against God.  Then the sinner will tremble at the threatenings which roll
like thunder over his head, ready to fall every moment in some judgment or other
upon him, when he sees from whence they are sent; the perfect hatred that God
bears to sin, and infinite wrath with which he is inflamed against the sinner
for it.  In a word, then the poor
trembling soul will not count the consolation of the promises small when it
sees from what fountain it flows—the bosom of God’s free mercy.  This indeed is the original source of
all promises.  The covenant itself,
which comprehends them all is called ‘mercy,’ because the product of
mercy.  ‘To perform the mercy
promised to our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant,’ Luke 1:72.  Now, saith faith, if the promises flow
from the sea of God’s free mercy, then they must needs be infinite as he is,
boundless and bottomless as that is; so that to reject the promise, or question
the suffi­ciency of the provision made in it upon this account, because thy
sins are great or many, casts a dishonour­able reflection on that mercy, in
whose womb the promise was conceived; and God will certainly bring his action
of defamation against thee, for aspersing this his darling attribute, which he
can least endure to see slandered and traduced.  God makes account you have done your worst against him, when
once you re­port him to be unmerciful or but scant in his mercy. How great a
sin this is may be conceived by the thoughts which God hath of this disposition
and frame of spirit in his creature. 
An unmerciful heart is such an abomination before the Lord that it hath
few like it.  This lies at he
bottom of the heathen’s charge, as the sediment and grossest part of all their
horrid sins—they were ‘implacable, unmerciful,’ Rom. 1:31. Now, to attribute that to God which
he so abhors in his creature, must needs make a heart tender of the good name
of God to tremble and exceedingly fear. It was a dreadful punishment that God
brought upon Jehoram, king of Judah, whom he ‘smote in his bowels with an
incurable dis­ease,’ that after two years’ torment his very bowels fell out, II Chr. 21:18, 19.  And why did this sore and heavy plague
befall him? Surely to let him know his want of bowels of mercy to his brethren
and princes, whom he most cruelly butch­ered.  He had not bowels in his heart, and he shall therefore have
none in his body.  Now, darest
thou, saith faith, impute want of bowels to God, that he will not show mercy to
thee, who penitently seeks it in Christ’s name, when thou seest what testimony
he gives of his incensed wrath against those men who have hardened their bowels
against their brethren, yea, their enemies?  O, have a care of this.  To shut thy own bowels of compassion from thy brother in
need is s grievous sin, and brings it into question whether the love of God
dwells in thee, I
John 3:17;
but, to asperse the merciful heart of God, as if his bowels of compassion were
shut against a poor soul in need, that desires to repent and return, is
transcen­dently the greater abomination, and it puts out of all question—where
it is persisted in—that the love of God dwells not in him.  It is impossible that love to God
should draw such a misshapen portraiture of God as this is.

           2.
Way.  Faith attends to
the end of the prom­ises, which give a further prospect of their greatness.
Now a word, which is the light faith goes by, discovers a double end of
promises, especially of the promise of pardoning mercy.

           (1.)
End.  The exalting and
magnifying the riches of free grace, which God would have appear in all its
glory—so far, I mean, as it is possible to be exposed to the creature’s view;
for the full sight of God’s glory is an object adequate to his own eye and none
else.  See this counsel and mysterious
design sweetly opened, Eph.
1:6, 9, 11, 12.  The sums of it all will amount to this,
that God in himself hath taken up a purpose of pardoning and saving a company
of poor sinners for Christ's sake; and this he hath prom­ulgated in the
promises of the gospel.  And the
plot of all is, that he might gather these all together at last in heaven—some
of which are already there, others of them at present on earth, and some yet
unborn—and, when they shall all meet together in one glorious choir, that there
they may, by their triumphant songs and hallelujahs, fill the heavens with
praiseful acclam­ations of thankfulness to the glory of that mercy which hath
thus pardoned and saved them.  Now,
faith  observing the praise of
God’s mercy to be the end aimed at by him in the promise, comes with good news
to the trembling soul, and tells it that if God will be but true to his own
thoughts, and keep his eye on that mark where at first he hath set it,
impossible it is that he should reject any poor penitent sinner merely for the
greatness of the sins he hath committed.

           It
is the exaltation of his mercy, saith faith, that God hath in his eye, when he
promiseth pardon to poor sinners. 
Now, which exalts this most? to pardon little or great sinners?  Whose voice will be highest and
shrillest in the song of praise, thinkest thou? Surely his to whom most is
forgiven; and therefore God cannot but be most ready to pardon the greatest
sinners when truly penitent.  A
physician that means to be famous will not send away those that most need his
skill and art, and only practise upon such diseases as are slight and
ordinary.  They are the great cures
which ring far and near.  When one,
given over by himself and others as a dead man, is, by the skill and care of a
physician, rescued out of the jaws of death that seemed to have inclosed him,
and raised to health; this commends him to all that hear of it, and gains him
more reputation than a whole year’s prac­tice in ordinary cures.  The great revenue of praise is paid
into God’s exchequer from those who have had great sins pardoned.  He that hath five hundred pence
forgiven will love more than he that hath but fifty, by Christ’s own judgment, Luke 7:43.  And where there is most love there is
like to be most praise;—love and praise being symbolical, the one resolving
into the other.  The voice of a
Manasseh, a Magdalene, and a Paul, will be heard, as I may so say, above all
the rest in heaven's concert.  The
truth is, greatness of sin is so far from putting a bar to the pardoning of a peni­tent
sinner in God's thoughts; that he will pardon none—how little sinners soever
they have been —except they see and acknowledge their sins to be great, before
they come to him on such an errand. And therefore he useth the law to make way,
by its convictions and terrors on the conscience, for his pardoning mercy, to
ascend the throne in the peni­tent sinner’s heart with the more magnificence
and honour, Rom.
5:20.  ‘The law entered’—that is, it was
promulgated first by Moses, and is still preached —‘that the offence might
abound:’—that is in the conscience by a deeper sense and remorse.  And why so, but that ‘where sin
abounded, grace might much more abound?’ 
We must needs shape our thoughts of the mercy that pardons our sins,
suitable to the thoughts we frame to ourselves of the sins we have
committed.  If we conceive these
little, how can we think the other great? 
And if we tremble at the great­ness of our sins, we must needs triumph
and exult at the transcendency of the mercy which so far exceeds their bulk and
greatness.  He that wonders at the
height of some high mountain, would much more wonder at the depth of those
waters which should quite swallow and cover it from being seen.

           (2.)
End.  The second end of the
promise is the believer’s comfort.  The word, especially this part of it, was on purpose writ,
that ‘through patience and comfort of the Scriptures they might have hope,’ Rom. 15:4.  God was willing to give poor sinners
all the se­curity and satisfaction that might be, concerning the reality of his
intentions, and immutability of that counsel which his mercy had resolved upon
from eternity, for the saving of all those who would em­brace Christ, and the
terms offered through him in the gospel; which, that he might do, he makes
publi­cation in the Scripture, where he opens his very heart and exposeth the
purposes of his love—that from everlasting he had taken up for the salvation of
poor sinners—to their own view in the many precious promises, that run like
veins throughout the whole body of the Scriptures, and these with all the seals
and ratifications which either his wisdom could find, or man’s jealous
unbelieving heart desire, and all this on a design to silence the querulous
spirit of poor tempted souls, and make their life more comfortable, who,
pursued by the hue and cry of their high climb­ing sins, take sanctuary for
their lives in Christ Jesus. As we have it in totidem verbis—in so many
words, ‘That by two immutable things, in which it was im­possible for God to lie,
we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon
the hope set before us,’ Heb.
6:18.  And because that of the greatness and
multitude of the creature's sins, is both the heaviest millstone which the
devil can find to tie about the poor sinner’s neck, in order to the drowning
him in despair, and that knife also which is the oftenest taken up by the
tempted sinner’s own hands for the murdering his faith; therefore the more
frequent and abundant provision is made by God against this.  Or read for this purpose these choice
scriptures, Ex. 34:5; Jer. 3, the whole chapter; Isa. 1:18; 45:7-9, 12; Heb.
7:25; I John 1:9; these, and such like places, are the strongholds which faith
re­treats into when this battery is raised against the soul.

           Canst
thou for shame be gravelled, saith faith, O my soul, with an argument drawn
merely from the greatness of thy sins, which is answered in every page almost
in the Bible, and to confute which so consider­able part of Scripture was
written?  Thus faith hisseth Satan
away with this his argument, that he counts so formidable, as they would do a
wrangling sophister out of the schools, when he boldly and ridiculously denies
some known principle, acknowledged by all for a truth that have not lost their
wits.  But I would not be here
mistaken.  God forbid, that while I
am curing despair I should cause presumption in any.  These two distempers of the soul are equally mortal and
dangerous, and so contrary, that, like the cold stom­ach and the hot liver in
the same person, while the physician thinks to help nature in the one to a heat
for digesting its food, he sometimes unhappily kindles a fire in the other that
destroys nature itself.  Thus,
while we labour to cheer the drooping soul’s spirits, and strengthen him to
retain and digest the promise for his comfort, we are in danger of nourishing
that feverish heat of presumptuous confidence, which is a fire will soon eat
out all care to please, and fear to displease, God; and consequently all ground
of true faith in the soul.  Faith
and fear are like the natural heat and radical moisture in the body, which is
never well but when both are preserved. 
‘The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope in
his mercy.’  Let me therefore
caution thee, Christian. As thou meanest to find any relief from the mercy of
God in a day of distress, take heed thou dost not think to befriend thyself
with hopes of any favour thou mayest find from it, though thou continuest thy
friendship with thy lusts.  [It
were] a design as infecable as to reconcile light and darkness, and bring day
to dwell with night.  Thou needest
not indeed fear to believe the pardon of thy sins—if thou re­pentest of
them—merely because they are great; but tremble to think of sinning boldly,
because the mercy of God is great. 
Though mercy be willing to be a sanctuary to the trembling sinner, to
shelter him from the curse of his sin; yet it disdains to spread her wing over
a bold sinner, to cover him while he is naught with his lust.  What! sin because there are promises of
pardon, and these promises made by mercy, which as far exceeds our sins as God
doth the creature!  Truly this is
the antipodes to the meaning that God’s mercy had in making them, and turns the
gospel with its heels upwards.  [It
is] as if your servant should get to your cellar of strong waters, and with
them make him­self drunk, which you keep for them when sick or faint, and then
only to be used.  O take heed of
quaf­fing thus in the bowls of the sanctuary.  It is the sad soul, not the sinning, that this wine of
consolation belongs to.

           3.
Way.  Faith presents the
Christian with a cloud of witnesses to whom the promise hath been
fulfilled; and these as great sinners as himself is. Scripture examples are
promises verified.  They are
book-cases, which faith may make use of by way of encouragement, as well as
promises.  God would nev­er have
left the saints’ great blots to stand in the Scriptures, to the view of the
world in all succeeding generations, had not it been of such use and advan­tage
to tempted souls, to choke this temptation, which of all other makes the most
dangerous breach in their souls—so wide sometimes, that despair itself is ready
to enter in at it.  Blessed Paul
gives this very reason why such acts of pardoning mercy to great sin­ners are
recorded, Eph.
2.  He shows first what foul filthy
creatures himself and other believers contem­porary with him were before they
were made par­takers of gospel grace. 
‘Among whom also we all had our conversation in times past in the lusts
of our flesh,’ Eph.
2:3;
and then he magnifies the rich mercy of God, that rescued and took them out of
that damned desperate state.  ‘But
God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us,... hath
quickened us together with Christ,’ ver. 4.

           And
why must the world know all this? 
O, God had a design and plot of mercy in them to more than
themselves—‘That in the ages to come he might shew the exceeding riches of his
grace in his kindness to­ward us through Christ Jesus,’ ver. 7.  Wherever the gospel comes this shall be
spoken of, what great sins he had forgiven to them, that unbelief might have
her mouth stopped to the end of the world, and this ar­row which is so oft on
Satan’s string made headless and harmless.  God commanded Joshua to take twelve stones out of the midst
of Jordan and set them up.  And
observe the reason, ‘That this may be a sign among you, that when your children
ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean ye by these stones?  Then ye shall answer them, That the
waters of Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of the Lord; when
it passed over Jordan, the waters of Jordan were cut off: and these stones
shall be for a memorial unto the children of Israel for ever,’ Joshua 4:6, 7.  Thus God hath, by his pardoning mercy,
taken up some great notorious sinners out of the very depths of sin, who lay at
the very bottom, as it were, of hell, swallowed up and engulfed in all manner
of abomination; and these he hath set up in his word, that when any poor
tempted souls to the end of the world—who are even overwhelmed with fears from
the greatness of their sins—shall see and read what God hath done for these,
they may be relieved and comforted with these examples, by God intended to be
as a memorial of what he hath done for others in time past, so a sign what he
shall do, yea, will, for the greatest sinners to the world’s end, upon their
repen­tance and faith.  No sins,
though as great and many as the waters of Jordan themselves, shall be able to
stand before the mercy of God’s gracious covenant, but shall all be cut off and
everlastingly pardoned to them.

           O
who can read a Manasseh, a Magdalene, a Saul, yea, an Adam—who undid himself
and a whole world with him—in the roll of pardoned sinners, and yet turn away
from the promise, out of a fear that there is not mercy enough in it to serve
his turn? These are as landmarks, that show what large bound­aries mercy hath
set to itself, and how far it hath gone, even to take into its pardoning arms
the great­est sinners, that make not themselves incapable thereof by final
impenitency.  It were a healthful
walk, poor doubting Christian, for thy soul to go this circuit, and oft to see
where the utmost stone is laid and boundary set by God’s pardoning
mercy—farther than which he will not go—that thou mayest not turn in the stone
to the prejudice of the mercy of God by thy own unbelief, nor suffer thyself to
be abused by Satan’s lies, who will make nothing to remove God’s land‑mark, if
he may by it but increase thy trouble of spirit, though he be cursed for it
himself.  But if, after all this,
thy sins seems to exceed the proportion of any one thou canst find pardoned in
Scripture —which were strange—yet faith at this plunge hath one way left beyond
all these examples for thy soul’s succour, and that is to fix thy eye on
Christ, who, though he never had sin of his own, yet laid down his life to
procure and purchase pardon for all the elect, and hath obtained it; they are
all, and shall, as they come upon the stage, be pardoned.  ‘Now,’ saith faith, ‘suppose thy sins
were greater than any one saint’s; yet are they as great as all the sins of the
elect to­gether?’  Thou darest not
surely say or think so.  And cannot
Christ procure thy pardon, who art but a sin­gle person, that hath done it for
so many millions of his elect? 
Yea, were thy sins as great as all theirs are, the sum would be the
same; and God could forgive it if it lay in one heap, as well as now when it is
in several.  Christ is ‘the Lamb of
God, which taketh away the sin of the world,’ John 1:29.  See here all the sins of the elect world trussed up in one
fardel,[9] and he
carries it lightly away into the land of forgetfulness. Now faith will tell
thee, poor soul, that the whole vir­tue and merit of Christ’s blood, by which
the world was re­deemed, is offered to thee, and shall be com­municated to thy
soul in particular.  Christ doth
not retail and parcel out his blood and the purchase of it, some to one and
some to another; then thou mightest say something; but he gives his whole self
to the faith of every believer. 
All is yours, you are Christ’s. 
O, what mayest thou not, poor soul, take up from the promise, upon the
credit of so great a Redeemer?

 

[To the greatness of
all the rest, faith opposes

the
greatness of this one sin of despair.]

 

           Third.  Faith, to quench this fiery dart headed
with the greatness of sin, and shot by Satan to drive the poor and penitent
soul to despair, teacheth him to oppose the greatness of this one sin of
despair to the greatness of all his other sins.  ‘What,’ saith faith, ‘would Satan persuade thee, because
thou hast been so great and prodigious a sinner, therefore not to be­lieve, or
dare to think the promise hath any good news for thee?  Retort thou, O my soul, his argument
upon himself, and tell him [that] that very thing by which he would dissuade
thee from believing, doth much more deter thee from despairing; and that is the
greatness of this sin above all thy other.’  Grant to be true what he chargeth thee withal, that thou art
such a monster in sin as he sets thee forth—though thou hast no reason to think
so upon his bare report, but yield him his saying—dost thou think to mend the
matter or better thy condition by despairing?  Is this all the kindness he will show thee, to make thee of
a great sinner, a desperate sinner like himself? This, indeed, is the only way
he can think of to make thee worse than thou art.  And, that this is true, faith is able to prove by these four
considerations of this bloody horrid sin, which will easily evince more mal­ignity
to be in this one sin of despair, than in any other, yea, all other
together.  1. Despair opposeth God
in the greatest of all his commands. 
2. Despair hath a way peculiar to itself of dishonouring God above other
sins.  3. Despair strengthens and
enrages all other sins in the soul. 
4. The greatness of this sin of despair appears in this, that the least
sin enven­omed by it is unpardonable, and without this the greatest is
pardonable.

 

[Four considerations proving the sin
of despair

to exceed all others
together.]

 

           Consideration
1.  Despair opposeth God in the greatest
of all his commands.  the
greatest command without all compare in the whole Bible, is to believe.  When those Jews asked our Lord Jesus,
‘What shall we do, that we might work the works of God?’ mark his answer, ‘This
is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent,’ John 6:28, 29.  As if he had said, The most compendious
way that I am able to give you, is to receive me into your hearts by faith; do
this, and you do all in one.  This
is the work that is instar omnium—all in all.  All you do is undone, and yourselves also, till this work be
done, for which you shall have as much thanks at God’s hands as if you could
keep the whole law.  Indeed, it is
accepted in lieu of it: ‘To him that worketh not, but believeth on him that
justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness,’ Rom. 4:5; where ‘he
that worketh not,’ is not meant a slothful lazy sinner that hath no list to
work, nor a rebellious sinner whose heart riseth against the work which the
holy law of God would employ him in; but the humbled sinner, who desires and
endeavours to work, but is no way able to do the task the law as a covenant
sets him, and therefore is said to have a law‑sense not to work, because he
doth not work to the law’s purpose, so as to answer its de­mands, which will
accept nothing short of perfect obedience.  This man’s faith on Christ is accepted for righteousness;
that is, God reckons him so, and so he shall pass at the great day by the
judge’s sentence, as if he had never trod one step awry from the path of the
law.  Now, if faith be the work of
God above all other, then unbelief is the work of the devil, and that to which
he had rather thou shouldst do than drink or drab.  And despair is unbelief at the worst.  Unbelief among sins is as the plague
among disease, the most dangerous; but when it riseth to despair, then it is as
the plague with the tokens that bring the certain message of death with
them.  Unbelief is despair in the
bud, despair is unbelief at its full growth.

           Consideration
2.  Despair hath a way
peculiar to itself of dishonouring God above other sins.  Every sin wounds the law, and the name
of God through the law's sides. 
But this wound is healed when the peni­tent sinner by faith comes to
Christ and closeth with him.  God
makes account, reparations now are fully made through Christ—whom the believer
receives —for the wrong done to his law, and his name vindi­cated from the
dishonour cast upon it by the crea­ture’s former iniquities; yea, that it
appears more glorious because it is illustrious, by the shining forth of one
title of honour, not the least prized by God himself—his forgiving mercy—which
could not have been so well known to the creature, if not drawn forth to act
upon this occasion.  But what would
you say of such a prodigious sinner that, when he hath wounded the law, is not
willing to have it healed? when he hath dishonoured God, and that in a high
provoking man­ner, is not willing that the dirt he hath cast on God’s face
should be wiped off?  Methinks I
see every one of your choler to rise at the reading of this, against such a
wretch, and hear you asking, as once Ahasu­erus did Esther, ‘Who is he, and
where is he, that durst presume in his heart to do so?’ Est. 7:5.  Would you know?  Truly, the adversary and enemy is this
wicked despair.  The despairing
soul is the person that will not let Christ make satisfaction for the wrong
that by his sins he hath done to God. 
Suppose a man should wound another dangerously in his passion, and when
he hath done, will not let any chirurgeon come near to cure the wound he hath
made.  Every one would say his last
act of cruelty was worse than his first.

           O
my soul, saith faith, thou didst ill, yea, very ill, in breaking the holy laws
of God, and dishonouring the name of the great God of heaven and earth there­by;
let thy heart ache for this.  But
thou dost far worse by despairing of mercy.  In this act thou rejectest Christ, and keepest him off from
satisfying the justice of the law that is injured by thee, and from redeeming
the honour of his name from the reproach thy sins have scandalized it
with.  What language speaks thy
despair but this?  Let God come by
his right and hon­our as he can, thou wilt never be an instrument active in the
helping of him to it, by believing on Christ, in whom he may fully have them
with advantage.  O what shame would
despair put the mercy of God to in the sight of Satan his worst enemy!  He claps his hands at this, to see all
the glorious attributes of God served alike and divested of their honour.  This is meat and drink to him.  That cursed spirit desires no better
music than to hear the soul ring the promises, like bells, backward; make no
other use of them than to confirm it in its own desperate thoughts of its dam­nation,
and to tell it hell‑fire is kindled in its conscience, which no mercy in God
will or can quench to eternity.  As
the bloody Jews and Roman soldiers exercised their cruelty on every part almost
of Christ’s body, crowning his head with thorns, goring his side with a spear,
and fastening his hands and feet with nails; so the despairing sinner deals
with the whole name of God.  He
doth, as it were, put a mock crown on the head of his wisdom, setting it all to
naught, and charging it foolishly, as if the method of salvation was not laid
with prudence by the all‑wise God. 
He nails the hands of his almighty power, while he thinks his sins are
of that nature as put him out of the reach and beyond the power of God to save
him. He pierceth the tender bowls of God through his mercy, of which he cannot
see enough in a God that not only hath, but is, mercy and love itself, to per­suade
him to hope for any favour or forgiveness at his hands.  In a word, the despairing soul
transfixeth his very heart and will, while he unworthily frames no­tions of
God, as if he were unwilling to the work of mercy, and not so inclined to
exercise acts of pardon and forgiveness on poor sinners as the word declares
him.  No, despair basely misreports
him to the soul, as if he were a lame God, and had no feet—affec­tions, I
mean—to carry him to such a work as forgiving sin is.  Now, what does the sum of all this amount to?  If you can, without horror and amaze­ment,
stand to cast it up, and consider the weight of those circumstances which
aggravate the flagitiousness of this unparalleled fact, surely it riseth to no
less than the highest attempt that the creature can make for the murdering of
God himself; for the infinitude of God’s wisdom, power, mercy, and all his
attributes, are more intrinsical to the essence and being of God, than the
heart‑blood is to the life of a mortal man. Shall he that lets out the heart‑blood
of a man, yea, but attempts to do it, be a murderer—especially if he be a
prince or a king the design is against—and des­ervedly suffer as such a one?
and shall not he much more be counted and punished as the worst of all
murderers that attempts to take away the life of God —though his arm and dagger
be too short for the purpose—by taking from him in his thoughts the infinitude
of those attributes which are, as I may say, the very life of God?  Surely God will neither part with the
glory, nor suffer the dishonour, of his name at the hands of his sorry
creature; but will engage all his attributes for the avenging himself on the
wretch that attempts it.  O tremble
therefore at despair. Nothing makes thy face gather blackness, and thy soul
hasten faster to the complexion of the damned souls, than this.  Now thou sinnest after the similitude
of those that are in hell.

           Consideration
3.  Despair strengthens and
en­rageth all other sins in the soul. 
None fight so fiercely as those who look for no quarter.  They think them­selves dead men, and
therefore they will sell their lives as dear as they can.  Samson despaired of ever getting out of
the Philistines’ hands—his eyes being now lost, and he unfit to make an
escape.  What doth he meditate, now
his case is desperate, but his ene­mies’ ruin, though it costs him his
own?  He cares not though he pulls
the house on his own head, so it may but fall on the Philistines’ also.  Absalom, when by the cursed counsel of
Ahithophel he had, as he thought, made himself so hateful to David as to put
him past all hope of being treated with, then breaks out with a high rage and
seeks the ruin of his royal father with fire and sword.  So cruel a thing is despair, it teaches
to show no respect where it looks for none. But most clearly it appears in the
devil himself, who, knowing himself to be excepted from the pardon, sins with a
rage as high as heaven.  And the
same sin hath the same effects in men that it hath in the devil, ac­cording to
the degrees of it that are found in them. ‘They said, There is no hope: but we
will walk after our own devices,’ Jer. 18:11, 12.  Did you never see a sturdy beggar—after a while knocking at
a door, and concluding by the present silence or denial that he shall have
nothing given him—fall into a cursing and railing of them that dwell there?  Even such foul lan­guage doth despair
learn the sinner to belch out against the God of heaven.  If despair enters it is im­possible to
keep blasphemy out.  Pray,
therefore, and do thy utmost to repel this dart, lest it soon set thy soul on a
flame with this hell‑fire of blasphemy.

           Hear,
O you souls smitten for sin, that spend your life in sighs, sobs, and tears for
your horrid crimes past, would you again be seen fighting against God as fierce
as ever?  As you would not, take
heed of despair.  If thou once thinkest
that God's heart is hardened against thee, thy heart will not be long hardening
against him.  And  this, by the way, may administer
comfort to the thoughts of some gracious but troubled souls, who can find no
faith that they have, yea, who are oft reckoning them­selves among
despairers.  Let me ask thee who
art in this sad con­dition, this one thing, Canst thou find any love breathing
in thy heart towards God, though thou canst find no breath of love coming at
present from him to thee?  And art
thou tender and fearful of sin­ning against him, even while thou seemest to thy
own thoughts to hope for no mercy from him?  If so, be of good comfort; thy faith may be weak, but thou
art far from being under the power of despair.  Desperate souls do not use to reserve any love for God, or
care for the pleasing of him. 
There is some faith surely in thy soul which is the cause of these
motions, though, like the spring in a watch, it be itself unseen, when the
other graces moved by it are visible.

           Consideration
4.  The greatness of this sin
of despair appears in this, that the least sin envenomed by it is
unpardonable, and without this the greatest is pardonable.  That must needs of all sins be most
abominable which makes the creature incapable of mercy.  Judas was not damned merely for his
treason and murder; for others that had their hands deep in the same horrid
fact, obtained a pardon by faith in that blood which through cruelty they shed;
but they were these heightened into the greatest malignity possible, from the
putrid stuff of despair and final impenitency with which his wretched heart was
filled, that he died so miserably of, and now is infin­itely more miserably
damned for.  Such being despair,
then, oh, let us shrink from the woful gulf!

 

 

 

 

 

[1]see vol. i p. 128

[2]see vol. i p. 129.

[3]Shrap, or shrape, a
place baited with chaff to entice birds. 
Imp. Dict.—Ed.

[4]The following is a
series of quotes that refer to what the Rev. Gurnall is stating here.  The reason for the Scripture citation
is obvious.  The next two
references are language resources that give fuller information on the word in
question.  These I have supplied to
aid the reader in understanding the point and were not supplied with the
book.  — SDB.

 

17This I say therefore,
and testify in the Lord, that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk, in
the vanity of their mind, 18having the understanding darkened, being
alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them, because of
the blindness of their heart: 19who being past feeling have given
themselves over unto lascivi­ousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness4124.

— Ephesians 4

 

4124 B80@<0>\" pleonexia {pleh‑on‑ex‑ee'‑ah}

 

from 4123; TDNT  6:266,864; n f

 

AV ‑ covetousness 8,
greediness 1, covetous practice 1; 10

 

1) greedy desire to
have more, covetousness, avarice

 

gen. pleonexias,
fem. noun from pleion (4119), more, and écho (2192) to have.  Covetousness, greediness (Luke 12:15;
Rom. 1:29 [cf. I Cor. 5:10, 11]; II Cor. 9:5, “as bounty or blessing on your
part, and not as covetousness on ours, not as extorted by us from you” (a.t.);
Eph. 4:19; I Thes. 2:5; II Peter 2:3, 14; LXX, Jer. 22:7; Hab. 2:9).  Pleonexia is a larger term which
includes philarguria (5365), love of money to hoard away, avarice.  It is con­nected with extortioners (I
Cor. 5:10); with thefts (Mark 7:22, covetous thoughts, plans of fraud and
extortion); with sins of the flesh (Eph. 5:3, 5; Col. 3:5).  Pleonexia may be said to be the
root from which these sins grow, the longing of the creature which has forsaken
God to fill itself with the lower objects of nature.

From The Complete
Word Study New Testament Dictionary

By Spiros Zodhiates ©
1992

 

And Vine notes that
this Greek word is used always in the bad or evil sense.

— From Vine’s: under “covetousness,”
no. 3.

[5]Callow, bare, wanting
feathers—Ed.

[6]Cologued: intrigue, conspire;
to talk privately, confer.

 

[7]ebullition; violent boiling
over. — SDB

[8]Refel; an obsolete term
meaning to reject, repulse.

— SDB

[9]Fardel: bundle or
burden.  From Webster’s  — SDB

Direction
Ninth.

 

 

The
Several Pieces of the Whole Armour of God.

 

Fifth Piece—The
Christian’s Helmet.

 

‘And take the helmet
of salvation’
(Eph. 6:17).

 

           These
words present us with another piece of the Christian’s panoply—a helmet
to cover his head in the day of battle—the
helmet of salvation.  It
makes the fifth in the apostle’s order. 
And, which is observ­able, this, with most of the pieces in this
magazine, are defensive arms, and all to defend the Christian from sin, none to
secure him from suffering.

           First.  They are most defensive arms.  Indeed, there is but one of all the
pieces in the whole panoply for offence, i.e. ‘the sword.’  It may be to give us this hint, that
this spiritual war of the Christian lies chiefly on the defence, and therefore
requires arms most of this kind to wage it.  God hath deposited a rich treasure of grace in every saint’s
heart.  At this is the devil's
great spite; to plunder him of it, and with it of his happi­ness, he commenceth
a bloody war against him.  So that
the Christian overcomes his enemy when himself is not overcome by him.  He wins the day when he doth not lose
his grace, his work being rather to keep what is his own than to get what is
his enemy’s.  And truly this one
thing well heeded, that the saint’s war lies chiefly on the defence, would be
of singular use to direct the Christian how to manage his combats both with
Satan and also his instruments.

           First.
With Satan.  Look,
Christian, thou standest always in a defensive posture, with thy armour on, as
a soldier, upon thy works, ready to defend the castle of thy soul which God
hath set thee to keep, and valiantly to repel Satan’s assaults whenever he
makes his approach.  But be not
persuaded out of the line of thy place, and calling that God hath drawn about
thee; no, not under the specious pretence of zeal and hope to get the greater
victory by falling into the enemies' quarters.  Let Satan be the assailant, and come if he will to tempt
thee; but go not thou in a bravado to tempt him to do it.  It is just he should be foiled that
seeks his own danger.  This got
Peter his fall in the high‑priest’s hall, who was left therefore cowardly to
deny his master, that he might learn humbly to deny himself ever after.

           Second.
With Satan’s instruments. 
May be they revile and reproach thee.  Remember thy part lies on the defence.  Give not railing for railing, reproach
for reproach.  The gospel allows
thee no liberty to use their weapons, and return them quid pro quo—stroke
for stroke.  ‘Be pitiful, be
courteous: not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing: but
contrariwise blessing,’ I
Peter 3:8, 9.  Thou hast here a girdle and breastplate
to defend thee from their bullets—the comfort of thy own sincerity and holy
walking, with which thou mayest wipe off the dirt thrown upon thy own face—but
no weapon for self-revenge.  A
shield is put into thy hand, which thou mayest lift up to quench their fiery
darts, but no darts of bitter words to retort upon them.  Thou art ‘shod with peace,’ that
thou mayest walk safely upon the injuries they do thee, without any prick or
pain to thy spirit, but not with pride to trample upon the persons that wrong
thee.

           Second.  As most of the pieces are defensive, so all of them to
defend from sin, none to secure the Christian from suffering.  They are to defend him in suffering,
not privilege him from it.  He must
prepare the more for suffering, because he is so well furnished with armour to
bear it.  Armour is not given for
men to wear by the fireside at home, but in the field.  How shall the maker be praised, if the
metal of his arms be not known? 
And where shall it be put to the proof, but amidst swords and bullets?  He that desires to live all his days in
an isle of providence, where the whole year is summer, will never make a good
Christian.  Re­solve for hardship,
or lay down thine arms.  Here is
the true reason why so few come at the beat of Christ’s drum to his standard;
and so many of those few that have listed themselves by an external profession under
him, do within a while drop away, and leave his colours; it is suffering work
they are sick of.  Most men are
more tender of their skin than conscience; and had rather the gospel had
provided armour to defend their bodies from death and danger, than their souls
from sin and Satan.

           But
I come to the words—‘and take the helmet of salvation;’ in which—after
we notice the copulative that clasps this to the former piece of armour, viz. ‘and,’
showing the connection between the various pieces, we pass to observe—FIRST.  The piece of armour itself—the helmet of salvation.  SECOND.  The use of this ‘helmet,’ or the offices of
hope in the Christian’s warfare. 
THIRD.  Several applications
of the doc­trine of the helmet of salvation, alike to those who have and to
those who have it not.

 

 

 

 

Connection of the Helmet with the Shield,

and the previous pieces of the Armour.

 

           Let
us notice the copulative ‘and.’ 
‘And take the helmet of salvation;’ that is, with the shield of
faith, and all the other pieces of armour here set down, take this also into
the field with you.  See here
how every grace is lovingly coupled to its fellow; and all at last, though many
pieces, make but one suit; though many links, yet make but one chain.  The note which this points at is the
concatenation of graces.

 

[The concatenation of graces, in

their birth, growth,
and decay.]

 

           Note.  The sanctifying saving graces of God’s Spirit are linked
inseparably together; there is a con­nection of them one to the other, and
that in their birth, growth, and decay.

           First
Connection.  In their birth.  Where one sanctifying grace is, the
rest are all to be found in its company. 
It is not so in common gifts and graces. These are parcelled out like
the gifts Abraham bestowed on the children he had by his concubines, Gen. 25:6.  One hath this gift, another hath that,
none hath all.  He that hath a gift
of knowledge may want a gift of utterance, and so of the rest.  But sanctifying graces are like the
inheritance he gave to Isaac; every true believer hath them all given him.  ‘He that is in Christ is a new
creature.’  And, ‘Behold all things
are be­come new,’ II
Cor. 5:17.  Now, the new creature con­tains
all.  As natural corruption is a
universal princi­ple of all sin, that sours the whole lump of man’s na­ture; so
is sanctifying grace an universal principle, that sweetly seasons and renews
the whole man at once, though not wholly. 
Grace comes, saith one, into the soul, as the soul into the body at
once.  In­deed, it grows by steps,
but is born at once.  The new
creature hath all its parts formed together, though not its degrees.  Some one grace may, we confess, be per­ceived
to stir, and so come under the Christian’s notice, before another.  He may feel his fear of God putting
forth itself in a holy trembling, and awe upon his spirit, at the thoughts of
God, before he sees his faith in the fiduciary recumbency of his soul upon God;
yet the one grace is not in its production before the other.  One part of the world hath been discov­ered
to us long after the other; yet all the world was made together.  Now this connection of graces in their
birth is of double use.

           1.
Use.  To relieve the
sincere Christian when in doubt of his gracious state, because some one
grace which he inquires for, cannot at present be discerned in his soul by
him.  Possibly it is faith thou
hast been looking for, and it is not at any hand to be heard of. Well,
Christian, do not presently unsaint thyself till thou hast made further trial
of thyself.  Send out therefore thy
spies to search for some other grace—as thy love to Christ; may be thou
wilt hear some tidings of this grace, though the other is not in view.  Hath not thy love to God and Christ
been seen by thee in such a temptation, chasing it away with Joseph’s answer to
his wanton mistress, ‘How...can I do this great wickedness, and sin against
God?’  Yea, mayest thou not see it
all the day long, either in thy sincere care to please him, or hearty sorrow
when thou hast done anything that grieves him? in which two veins run the life‑blood
of a soul’s love to Christ.  Now,
know to thy comfort, that thy love can tell thee news of thy faith.  As Christ said in another case, ‘He
that hath seen me hath seen my Father,’ John 14:9; so say I to thee, ‘Thou that hast
seen thy love to Christ, hast seen thy faith in the face of thy love.’

           But,
may be, thy love to Christ is also lodged in a cloud.  Well, then, see whether thou canst spy no evangelical
repentance, loathing thee with the sight of thy sins, as also enfiring thee
with revenge against them, as those enemies which drew thee into rebel­lion
against God, yea, were the bloody weapon with which thou hast so oft wounded
the name and mur­dered the Son of God. 
Behold, the grace thou look­est for stands before thee.  What is love to God, if zeal against
sin as God’s enemy be not?  Did not
Abi­shai love David, when his heart boiled so over with rage against Shimei for
cursing David, that he could not contain, but breaks out into a passion,
saying, ‘Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? let me go over, I
pray thee, and take off his head?’ II Sam. 16:9.  And by thy own acknowledgment it troubles thee as much to
hear thy lusts bark against God, and thy will is as good to be the death of
them, if God would but say his fiat to it, as ever Abishai’s was to strike that
traitor's head off his shoulders; and yet art thou in doubt whether thou lovest
God or no?  Truly then thou canst
not see fire for flame, love for zeal. Thus, as by taking hold of one link you
may draw up the rest of the chain that lies under water, so by discovering one
grace, thou mayest bring all to sight. Joseph and Mary were indeed deceived,
when they supposed their son to be in the company of their kin­dred, Luke 2:44.  But so canst thou not here.  For this holy kindred of graces go ever
together, they are knit, as members of the body, one to another.  Though you see only the face of a man,
yet you doubt not but the whole man is there.

           2.
Use.  As it may relieve the
sincere Christian, so it will help to uncase and put the hypocrite to shame,
who makes great pretensions to some one grace when he hates another at the same
time—a certain note of a false heart. 
He never had any grace that loves not all graces.  Moses would not out of Egypt with half
his company, Ex.
10.  Either all must go or none shall
stir.  Neither will the Spirit of
God come into a soul with half of his sanctifying graces, but with all his
train.  If therefore thy heart be
set against any one grace, it proves thou art a stranger to the rest; and
though thou mayest seem a great ad­mirer and lover of one grace, yet the
defiance thou standest in to others washeth off the paint of this fair
cover.  Love and hatred are of the
whole kind; he that loves or hates one saint as such, doth the same by ev­ery
saint; so he that cordially closeth with one grace, will find every grace
endeared to him upon the same account; for they are as like one to another, as
one beam of the sun is to another beam.

           Second
Connection.  Sanctifying graces
are con­nected in their growth and decay.  Increase one grace, and you strengthen all; impair one, and
you will be a loser in all; and the reason is, because they are recip­rocally
helpful each to other.  So that
when one grace is wounded, the assistance it should and would, if in temper,
contribute to the Christian’s common stock, is either wholly detained or much
lessened.  When love cools,
obedience slacks and drives heavily, be­cause it wants the oil on its wheel
that love used to drop.  Obedience
faltering, faith weakens apace. How can there be great faith when there is
little faithful­ness?  Faith
weakening, hope presently wavers; for it is the credit of faith’s report, that
hope goes on to ex­pect good from God. 
And hope wavering, patience breaks, and can keep shop windows open no
longer, because it trades with the stock hope lends it.  In the body you observe there are many
members, yet all make but one body; and every member so useful, that the others
are beholden to it.  So in the
Christian there are many graces, but one new creature.  And the eye of knowledge cannot say to
the hand of faith, ‘I have no need of thee,’ nor the hand of faith to the foot
of obedience, but all are preserved by the mutual care they have of one
another.  For, as ruin to the whole
city may enter at a breach in one part of its wall, and the soul run out
through a wound in a par­ticular member of the body; so the ruin of all the
graces may, yea must needs, follow on the ruin of any one.  There is indeed a stronger bond of
necessity between graces of our souls than there is between the members of our
body.  It is possible, yea
ordinary, for some member to be cut off from the body without the death of the
whole, because all the members of the body are not vital parts.  But every grace is a vital part in the
new creature, and so essential to its very being that its absence cannot be
supplied per vicarium—by substitution.  In the body one eye can make a shift to do the office of it
fellow which is put out; and one hand do the other's work that is cut off,
though may not be so exactly; but faith cannot do the office of love, nor love
the work of obedience.  The lack of
one wheel spoils the motion of the whole clock.  And if one grace should be wanting, the end would not be
attained for which this rare piece of workmanship is set up in the saint’s
heart.

 

[Two inferences to be
drawn from

the connection of
graces.]

 

           First
Inference.  Let it learn thee,
Christian, this wisdom, whenever thou findest any grace weakened, either
through thy negligence not tending it, or Sa­tan’s temptations wounding it,
speedily to endeavour to recovery of it; because thou dost not only lose
the comfort which the exercise of this one grace might bring, but thou
weakenest all the others.  Is he a
bad husband who hazards the fall of his house by suffering a hole or two in the
roof go unmended?  What, then, art
thou that puttest thy whole gracious state in dan­ger, by neglecting a timely
repair of the breach made in any one of thy graces?  And so when thou art temp­ted to any sin, look not on it as
a single sin, but as having all other sins in its belly.  Consider what thou dost before thou gratifiest
Satan in any one motion; for by one sin thou strengthenest the whole body of
sin.  Give to one sin, and that
will send more beggars to your door; and they will come with a stronger plea
than the former; another, why mayest thou not do this for them, as well as
that?  Thy best way is to keep the
door shut to all; lest, while thou intendest to en­tertain only one, all crowd
in with it.  But if it were
possible that thou couldst break this connection of sin, so as to take off one
link that pleaseth thee best, and not draw the whole chain after thee by commit­ting
this, yet know there is a connection of guilt also. ‘Whosoever shall keep the
whole law, and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all,’ James 2:10.  As he that administereth to the estate
of one deceased, though it be never so little that he takes into his hands, be­comes
liable to pay all his debts, and brings all his creditors upon him; so by
tampering but with one sin, and that a little one, thou bringest the whole law
upon thy back, which will arrest thee upon God’s suit, as a trespasser and
transgressor of all its commands. A man cannot stab any part of the face but he
will disfigure the whole countenance, and wrong the whole man.  Thus the law is copulative; an affront
done to one redounds to the dishonour of all, and so is resented by God the
lawgiver, whose authority is equally in all.

           Second
Inference.  This may comfort
those who trouble themselves with the thoughts of future chan­ges which may
befall them, and so alter the scene of their affairs, as to call them to
act a part they never much thought upon; and what shall they do then, say
they?  Now, blessed be God, they
make a shift to serve God in their place. 
But what if straits come? poverty, sickness, or other crosses, make a breach
in their bank?  How, alas! shall
they then behave them­selves? 
Where is their faith, patience, contentment, and other suffering graces,
that should enable them to walk on these waves without sinking?  They fear, alas! little of these
suffering graces is in their hands for such a time.  Well, Christian, for thy encouragement know, that if the
graces of thy present condition —those I mean which God calls thee to exercise
now in thy prosperous state—be lively, and quit them­selves well, thou mayest
comfortably hope the other suffering graces, which now stand unseen behind the
curtain, will do the same, when God changeth the scene of thy affairs and calls
them upon the stage to act their part. 
The more humble thou art now with thy abundance, the more patient thou
wilt certainly show thyself in thy penury.  So much as thy heart is now above the world’s enjoyments,
even so much thou wilt then be above the troubles and sorrows of it. Trees,
they say, grow proportionably under ground to what they do above ground; and
the Christian will find something like this in his graces.

 

 

 

DIRECTION IX.—FIRST
GENERAL PART.

 

[The Helmet of Salvation, what it is.]

 

‘Take the
helmet of salvation’ 
(Eph. 6:17).

 

           We
have done with the connective particle, whereby this piece is coupled to the
former, and now come to address our discourse to the piece of armour itself—‘take
the helmet of salvation.’ 
Though we have not here, as in all the other [pieces], the grace expressed,
yet we need not be long at a loss for it, if we consult with another place,
where our apostle lends us a key to decipher his meaning in this.  And none so fit to be interpreter of
the apostle’s words as himself. 
The place is, I
Thes. 5:8,
‘And for an helmet, the hope of salvation:’ so that, without any further
scruple, we shall fasten the grace of ‘hope,’ as in­tended by the Holy Ghost in
this place.  Now, in or­der to a
treatise of this grace, it is requisite that some­thing be said by explication
that may serve as a light set up in the entry, to lead us the better into the
several rooms of the point which is to be the subject of our discourse; and
this I shall do by showing—First.
What ‘hope’ is.  Second. Why called ‘the hope of
salvation.’  Third. Why this ‘hope’ is compared to 'a
helmet.’

 

[The nature of the
hope that forms the helmet.]

 

           First Inquiry.  What is the nature of the hope that forms the Christian’s
helmet?  A little to open the
nature of this grace of hope, we shall do so as it will best be done, by laying
down a plain description of it, and briefly explicating the parts.  Hope is a su­pernatural grace of God,
whereby the believer, through Christ, expects and waits for all those good
things of the promise, which at present he hath not received, or not fully.

           First.  Here is the author or efficient of
hope —God; who is called ‘the God of all grace,’ I Peter 5:10 —that is,
the giver and worker of all grace, both as to the first seed and the further
growth of it.  It is impos­sible
for the creature to make the least pile of grass, or being made, to make it
grow; and as impossible to produce the least seed of grace in the heart, or to
add one cubit to the stature of it. 
No, as God is the father of the rain, by which the herbs in the fields
spring and grow, so also of those spiritual dews and influences that must make
every grace thrive and flourish. 
The apostle, in the former place, teacheth us this when he prays that
God would ‘perfect, establish, strengthen, settle them.’  And as of all grace in general, so of
this in particular, Rom. 15:13, where he is styled ‘the God of hope;’ and ‘by
whom we abound in hope’ also.  It
is a supernatural hope; and thereby we distinguish it from the heathens’
hope, which, with the rest of their moral virtues, so far as any excellency was
found in them, came from God—to whom every man that cometh into the world is
beholden for all the light he hath, John 1:9—and is but the remains of man’s first
noble principles, as sometimes we shall see a broken turret or two stand in the
midst of the ruins of some stately palace demolished, that serves for little
more than to help the spectator to give a guess what godly buildings once stood
there.

           Second.  Here is hope’s subject—the believer.  True hope is a jewel that none wears
but Christ’s bride; a grace with which none is graced but the be­liever’s
soul.  Christless and hopeless are
joined together, Eph.
2:12.  And here it is not amiss to observe the
order in which hope stands to faith. 
In regard of time, they are not one before another; but in order of
nature and operation, faith hath preced ency of hope. First, faith closeth with
the promise as a true and faithful word, then hope lifts up the soul to wait
for the performance of it.  Who
goes out to meet him that he believes will not come?  The promise is, as it were, God's love‑letter to his church
and spouse, in which he opens his very heart, and tells all he means to do for
her.  Faith reads and embraceth it
with joy, whereupon the believing soul by hope looks out at his window with a
longing expectation to see her hus­band's chariot come in the accomplishment
thereof. So Paul gives a reason for his own hope from his faith, Acts 24:14, 15, and prays
for the Romans’ faith in order to their hope, Rom. 15:13.

           Third.  Here is hope’s object.

           1.  In general, something that is good.  If a thing be evil, we fear and flee
from it; if good, we hope and wait for it.  And here is one note of difference be­tween it and
faith.  Faith believes evil as well
as good; hope is conversant about good.

           2.  It is the good of the promise.  And in this faith and hope agree; both
their lines are drawn from the same centre of the promise.  Hope without a promise is like an
anchor without ground to hold by; it bears the promise on its name.  ‘I stand and am judged,’ saith Paul,
‘for the hope of the promise,’ Acts 26:6. 
So David shows where he moors his ship and casts his anchor.  ‘I hope in thy word,’ Ps. 119:81.  True hope will trade only for true
good.  And we can all nothing so
that the good God hath not promised; for the promise runs thus, ‘No good thing
will he withhold from them that walk up­rightly,’ Ps. 84:11.

           3.  All good things of the promise.  As God hath encircled all good in the
promise, so he hath prom­ised nothing but good; and therefore hope’s object is
all that the promise holds forth. 
Only, as the matter of the promise hath more degrees of goodness, so
hope intends its act, and longs more earnestly for it. God, he is the chief
good, and the fruition of him is promised as the utmost happiness of the
creature. Therefore true hope takes her chief aim at God, and makes after all
other promises in a subserviency to heave and lift the soul nearer unto
him.  He is called 'the Hope of
Israel,’ Jer.
17:13.  There is nothing be­yond God the
enjoying of which the believer projects; and nothing short of God that he can
be so content with as, for the enjoying of it, to be willing to give God a
general and full discharge of what by promise he stands engaged to him for.  Now, because God is only enjoyed fully
and securely in heaven’s blissful state, therefore it is called ‘the hope of
glory,’ Col.
1:27,
‘the hope of eternal life,’ Titus 3:7, and ‘the hope of salvation,’ I Thes. 5:8.

           4.  The object of hope is the good of
the prom­ise, not in hand, but yet to be performed.  ‘Hope that is seen is not hope: for
what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for?’ Rom. 8:24.  Futurity is intrinsical to hope’s object, and distinguisheth
it from faith, which gives a present being to the promise, and is §8B\>@­µX<T< ßB`FJ"F4H—the
subsistence of things hoped for, Heb. 11:1.  The good of the promise hath a kind of subsistence by faith
in the soul.  It is heaven as it
were in an interview.  It brings
the Christian and heaven together, as if he were there already.  Hence they are said by faith to kiss
and embrace the promise, Heb.
11:13,
as two friends when they meet. 
Faith speaks in the present tense, ‘We are conquerors, yea, we are more
than conquerors.’  Hope in
futuro—in the fu­ture, ‘I shall.’ 
And lastly, I inserted or not fully per­formed.  Partial performance of the promise intends
hope; but, complete, ends hope, and swallows it up in love and joy.  Indeed, either the full performance of
the promise, or execution of the threatening, shuts out all hope.  In heaven the promise is paid and hope
dismissed, because we have what was looked for; and in hell the threatening is
fully inflicted, and therefore no hope to be found among the damned, because no
possibility of release.

           Fourth.  Hope's aid—by whose help and for
whose sake it expects to obtain the promise—and that is Jesus Christ.  It waits for all in and through him. He
is therefore called ‘our hope,’ I Tim. 1:1, because through him we hope for what is
promised, both as the purchaser, by whose death we have hanc veniam
sperandi—leave and liberty to expect good from God; and by whose Spir­it we
have virtutem sperandi—abil­ity to hope; so that both the ¦>@F\" and *b<"µ4H —the
authority and strength to hope comes from Christ; the former by the effusion of
his blood for us, the latter by the infusion of his Spirit into us.

 

[Why this hope is
called the hope of salvation.]

 

           Second Inquiry.  Why is the Christian’s hope styled a
‘hope of salvation?’  A double
reason is ob­vious.

           First
Reason.  Because salvation comprehends
and takes within its circle the whole object of his hope.  ‘Salvation’ imports such a state of
bliss, where­in meet eminently the mercies and enjoyments of the promises,
scattered some in one and some in an­other; as at the creation, the light which
was first diffused through the firmament was gathered into the sun.  Cast up the particular sums of all good
things promised in the covenant, and the total which they amount unto is, salvation.  The ultima unitas—final whole,
or unity, gives the denomination to the num­ber, because it comprehends all; so
salvation the ul­timate object of the Christian’s expectation, and that which
comprehends the rest, denominates his hope.

           Second
Reason.  It is called ‘a hope
of salva­tion,’ to distinguish it from the worldling’s hope, whose
portion, Ps.
16,
is in this life, and so his hope also. 
It is confessed that many of these will pretend to a hope of salvation;
but the truth is, they neither have right to it, nor are they very eager of
it.  They think themselves so well
seated in this world, that if they might have their wish, it should be that God
would not remove them hence.  Even
when they say they hope to be saved, their consciences tell them that they had
rather stay here than part with this world in hope to mend themselves in the
other.  They blow up themselves
into a hope and desire of salvation, more out of a dread of hell than liking of
heaven.  None I think so mad among
them but had rather be saved than damned—live in heaven than lie in hell—yet
the best of the whole pack likes this world better than them both.

 

[Why hope is compared
to a helmet.]

 

           Third Inquiry.  Why is hope compared to a helmet?  For this conceive a double reason.

           First
Reason.  The helmet defends the
head, a principal part of the body, from dint of bullet and sword; so this
‘hope of salvation’ defends the soul, the principal part of man, and the
principal faculties of that, whereby no dangerous, to be sure no deadly,
impression by Satan or sin be made on it. 
Tempta­tions may trouble but cannot hurt, except their darts enter the
will and leave a wound there, by drawing it to some consent and liking of them;
from which this helmet of hope, if it be of the right make, and fits sure on
the Christian’s head, will defend him. 
It is hard to draw him into any treasonable practice against his
prince, who is both well satisfied of his favour at pres­ent, and stands also
on the stairs of hope, expecting assuredly to be called up within a while to
the highest preferment that the court can afford or his king give. No, the
weapons of rebellion and treason are usually forged and fashioned in
discontent’s shop.  When subject's
take themselves to be neglected and slighted by their prince—think that their
preferments are now at an end, and [that they] must look for no great favours
more to come from him—this softens them to receive every impression of
disloyalty that any enemy to the king shall attempt to stamp them withal.  As we see in the Israelites; thinking
the men of Judah, of whose tribe the king was, had got a monopoly of his
favour, and themselves to be shut out from sharing, at least equally, with them
therein; how soon are they —even at a blast or two of Sheba’s seditious trumpet
—made rebels against their sovereign? 
‘We have no part in David,’ saith Sheba, ‘neither have we inheri­tance
in the son of Jesse: every man to his tents, O Israel!’ II Sam. 20:1.  And see how this treason runs, even
like a squib upon a rope.  ‘Every
man of Israel went up from after David, and followed Sheba,’ ver. 2. Thus, if
once the soul fears it hath no part in God, and expects no inheritance from
him, I know no sin so great but it may at the sound of the tempter’s trumpet be
drawn to commit.

           Second
Reason.  As the helmet defends
the soldier’s head from wounding, so his heart also from swooning.  It makes him bold and fearless in
battle though amidst swords and bullets. 
Goliath with his helmet of brass and other furniture, how confidently
and daringly did the man come on! 
As if he had been so enclosed in his armour that it was impossible that
any we apon could come near to deliver a message of death unto him!  This made him carry his crest so high,
and defy a whole host, till at last he paid his life for his pride and
folly.  But here is a helmet that
whoever wears it need never be put to shame for his holy boasting.  God himself allows him so to do, and
will bear him out in this rejoicing of his hope.  ‘Thou shalt know that I am the Lord: for they shall not be
ashamed that wait for me,’ Isa. 49:23. 
This made holy David so undaunted in the midst of his enemies, ‘Though
an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear,’ Ps. 27:3.  His hope would not suffer his heart so
much as beat within him for any fear of what they could do to him.  He had this ‘helmet of salva­tion’ on,
and therefore he saith, ‘Mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round about
me,’ ver.
6.  A man cannot drown so long as his head
is above water. Now it is the proper office of hope to do this for the
Christian in times of any danger. 
‘When these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your
heads; for your redemption draweth nigh,’ Luke 21:28. A strange time, one would think, for
Christ then to bid his disciples lift up their heads in, when they see other
‘men’s hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which
are coming on the earth,’ ver.
26,
yet, now is the time of the rising of their sun when others' is setting, and
blackness of darkness overtaking them; because now the Christian’s feast is
coming, for which hope hath saved its stomach so long—‘your redemption draweth
nigh.’  Two things make the head
hang down—fear and shame.  Hope
easeth the Christian’s heart of both these; and so forbids him to give any sign
of a desponding mind by a dejected countenance.  And so much may suffice for explication of the words.  I come now to lay down the one general
point of doctrine, from which our whole dis­course on this one piece of armour
shall be drawn.

 

 

 

 

DIRECTION IX.—SECOND
GENERAL PART.

 

[Use of the Helmet, or the Offices of Hope in the Christian Warfare.]

 

           The
doctrine now then is, that hope is a grace of singular use and service to us
all along our spiritual warfare and Christian course.  We are directed to take the helmet of
salvation—and this, not for some particular occasion and then hang it by till
another extraordinary strait calls us to take it down and use it again—but we
must take it so as never to lay it aside till God shall take off this helmet to
put on a crown of glory in the room of it.  ‘Be sober and hope to the end,’ is the apostle Peter’s
counsel, I
Peter 1:13.  There are some engines of war that are
of use but now and then, as ladders for scaling of a town or fort; which done,
[they] are laid aside for a long time and not missed.  But the helmet is of continual use.  We shall need it as long as our war
with sin and Satan lasts. The Christian is not beneath hope so long as above
ground, nor above hope so long as beneath heaven. Indeed when once he enters
the gates of that glorious city, then ‘farewell hope and welcome love forever.’
He may say, with the holy martyr, Armour becomes earth, but robes heaven.  Hope goes into the field and waits on
the Christian till the last battle be fought and the field cleared, and then
faith and hope together carry him in the chariot of the promise to heaven door,
where they deliver up his soul into the hands of love and joy, which stand
ready to conduct him into the blissful presence of God.  But that I may speak more particularly
of hope’s serviceableness to the Christian, and the several offices it
performeth for him, I shall reduce all to these four heads.  First.
Hope puts the Christian upon high and noble ex­ploits.  Second.
Hope makes him diligent and faith­ful in the meanest services.  Third.
Hope keeps him patient amidst the greatest sufferings.  Fourth.
Hope composeth and quiets the spirit, when God stays longest before he comes to
perform promises.

First of the
first.

 

FIRST OFFICE.

 

[Hope, as the
Christian’s helmet,

stirs
him to noble exploits.]

 

           Hope
of salvation puts the Christian upon high and noble exploits.  It is a grace born for great ac­tions.  Faith and hope are the two poles on
which all the Christian’s noble enterprises turn.  As carnal hope excites carnal men to their achievements
which gain them any renown in the world, so is this heav­enly hope influential
unto the saints’ undertakings. What makes the merchant sell house and land, and
ship his whole estate away to the other end almost of the world—and this amidst
a thousand hazards from pirates, waves and winds—but hope to get a greater by
this bold adventure?  What makes
the daring soldier rush into the furious battle, upon the very mouth of death
itself, but hope to snatch honour and spoil out of its jaws?  Hope is his helmet, shield, and
all, which makes him laugh on the face of all danger.  In a word, what makes the scholar beat his brains so hard
—sometimes with the hazard of breaking them, by overstraining his parts with
too eager and hot a pur­suit of learning—but hope but hope of commencing some
degrees higher in the knowledge of those secrets in nature that are locked up
from vulgar under­standings?—who, when he hath attained his desire, is paid but
little better for all his pains and study, that have worn nature in him to the
stumps, than he is that tears the flesh off his hands and knees with creeping
up some craggy mountain, which proves but a barren bleak place to stand in, and
wraps him up in the clouds from the sight of others, leaving him little more to
please himself with but this, that he can look over other men's heads, and see
a little farther than they.  Now if
these peddling hopes can prevail with men to such fixed resolutions for the
obtaining of these poor sorry things, which borrow part of their goodness from
men's fancy and imagination, how much more effectual must the Christian’s hope
of eternal life be to provoke him to the achievement of more noble
exploits!  Let a few instances
suffice.  First. This hope raiseth in the Christian a heroic res­olution
against those lusts that held him before in bondage.  Second. This
hope ennobles and enables the Christian to contemn the present world with all
its pomp, treasure, and pleasure, to which the rest of the sons of men are,
every man of them, basely enslaved. 
Third. This hope, where it
is steadfast, makes the Christian active and zealous for God.  Fourth.
It begets in the Christian a holy impatience after further attainments,
especially when it grows to some strength.

 

[Instances wherein hope has raised

the Christian to
noble exploits.]

 

           First Instance. This hope raiseth in the
Chris­tian heroic resolution against those lusts that held him before in
bondage.  The Israelites who
couched so tamely under the Egyptian burdens, without any attempt made by them
to shake off the oppressor’s yoke, when once Moses came from God to give them
hope of an approaching salvation, and his report had gained some credit to be
believed by them, it is strange to see what a mighty change the impression of
their new‑conceived hope made upon them. 
On a sudden their mettle returns, and their blood, that with anguish and
despair had so long chilled, and been even frozen in their veins, grows warm
again. They who had hardly durst let their groans be heard —so cowed were their
spirits with hard labour—dare now, fortified with hope, break open their prison
doors, and march out of Egypt towards the place of rest promised, maugre [in
spite of] all the power and wrath of enraged Pharaoh, who pursued them.  Truly, thus it is with a soul in regard
of sin’s bondage.

           O
how impotent and poor‑spirited is a soul void of this heavenly hope! what a
tame slave hath Satan of him!  He
is the footstool for every base lust to trample upon.  He suffers the devil to back and ride him whither he
pleaseth, without wincing.  No
puddle so filthy, but Satan may draw him through it with a twine thread.  The poor wretch is well enough con­tented
with his ignoble servitude, because he knows no better master than him he
serves, nor better wages than the swill of his sensual pleasures which his
lusts allow him.  But, let the news
of salvation come to the ear of this sin‑deluded soul, and a spiritual eye be
given him to see the transcendent glory thereof, with a crevice of hope set
open to him, that he is the per­son that shall inherit it, if willing to make
an ex­change of Satan for Christ, and of the slavery of his lusts for the
liberty of his Redeemer’s service—O what havoc then doth the soul begin to make
among his lusts!  He presently vows
the death of them all, and sets his head at work how he may soonest and most
effectually rid his hands of them. 
‘Every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is
pure,’ I
John 3:3.  He now looks upon his lusts with no
better eye than a captive prince would do on his cruel keepers, out of whose
hands could he but make an escape, he would presently enjoy his crown and
kingdom; and therefore meditates his utmost revenge upon them.  There may be some hasty pur­poses taken
up by carnal men against their lusts, upon some accidental discontent they meet
with now and then in the prosecution of them; but, alas! the swords they draw
against them are soon in their sheaths again, and all the seeming fray comes to
nothing in the end.  They, like
Esau, go out full and angry in a sudden mood, but a present comes from their
lusts that bribes them from hurting them; yea, so reconciles them to them,
that, as he did by his broth­er, they can fall upon the necks of those lusts to
kiss them, which a while before they threatened to kill; and all for want of a
true hope of heaven to outbid the proffers their lusts make to appease their
anger, which would never yield a peace should be patched up with them on such
infinite hard terms as it must needs be, the loss of eternal salvation.  He that hath a mind to provide himself
with arguments to arm him against sin’s motions, need not go far to seek them;
but he that handles this one well, and drives it home to the head, will not
need many more.

           What
is the sin this would not prostrate? 
Art thou tempted to any sensual lust?  Ask thy hope what thou lookest to be in heaven.  And canst thou yield to play the beast
on earth, who hopest to be made like the pure and holy angels in heaven?

           Is
it a sin of profit that bewitcheth thee? 
Is not a hope of heaven a spell strong enough to charm this devil?  Can gold bear any sway with thee that
hopest to be heir of that city where gold bears no price? Wherefore is that
blissful place said to be paved with gold, but to let us know it shall be there
trampled up­on as of no account? 
And wilt thou let that now lie in thy heart, that will ere long
be laid under thy feet?

           Is
it a sin of revenge?  Dost thou not
hope for a day when thy dear Saviour will plead thy cause, and what needest
thou then take his work out of his hand? 
Let him be his own judge that hath no hope; the Judge, when he comes,
will take his part.

           Second Instance. This hope ennobles
and en­ables the Christian to contemn the present world, with all its pomp,
treasure, and pleasure, to which the rest of the sons of men are, every man
of them, basely enslaved and held by the leg as a prisoner by this chain.  When once faith makes a discovery of
land that the Christian hath lying in heaven, and, by hope, he begins to lot
upon it as that which he shall shortly take up at his remove from earth; truly
then the price of this world’s felicity falls low in his account; he can sell
all his hopes from it very cheap, yea, he can part with what he hath in hand of
this world’s growth, when God calls him to it, more freely than Alexander did
the cities he took; because, when all this is gone, he shall leave himself a
better hope than that great monarch had to live upon.  The hopes of heaven leave a blot upon the world in the
Christian’s thoughts.  It is no
more now to him, than the asses were to anointed Saul.

           Story
tells us of some Turks who have, upon the sight of Mahomet’s tomb, put their
eyes out, that they might not defile them, forsooth! with any common object
after they had been blessed with seeing one so sacred.  I am sure many a gracious soul there
hath been, who by a prospect of heaven’s glory—the palace of the great God—set
before the eye of their faith, have been so ravished with the sight, that they
have desired God even to seal up their eyes by death, with Simeon, who would
not by his good‑will have lived a day after that blessed hour in which his eyes
had be­held the ‘salvation’ of God. 
Abraham was under the hope of this salvation, and therefore ‘he
sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange country;...for he looked for
a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God,’ Heb. 11:9, 10.  Canaan would have liked [pleased] him
well enough, if God had not told him of a heaven that he meant to give him, in
comparison to which, Canaan is now but Cabul—a dirty land, in his
judgment.  So Paul tells us not
only the low thoughts he hath himself of the world, but as they agree with the
common sense of all believers, whose hope is come to any consistency and settlement,
‘for our conversation is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Saviour,’ Php. 3:20. Mark, he
sets the saint with his back upon earth; and draws his reason from their
hope—‘from whence we look,’ &c. 
Indeed, he that looks on heaven must needs look off earth.  The soul’s eye can as little as the
body’s eye be above and below at the same time.  Every man converseth most where he hopes for to receive his
greatest gains and advantage.  The
publican sits at the receipt of custom: there come in his gains.  The courtier stands at his prince’s
elbow.  The merchant, if you will
find him, look for him in his warehouse or at the exchange.  But the Christian’s hope carries him by
all these doors.  Here is not my
hope, saith the soul; and therefore not my haunt.  My hope is in heaven, from whence I look for the Saviour to
come, and my salvation to come with him; there I live, walk, and wait.

           Nothing
but a steadfast well‑grounded hope of salvation can buy off the creature's
worldly hopes. The heart of man cannot be in this world without a hope; and if
it hath no hope for heaven, it must of necessity take in at earth, and borrow
one there such as it can afford. What indeed can suit an earthly heart better
than an earthly hope?  And that
which is a man's hope—though poor and peddling—is highly prized, and hardly
parted with.  As we see in a man
like to drown, and [who] hath only some weed or bough by the bank’s side to
hold by; he will die with it in his hand rather than let go; he will endure
blows and wounds rather than lose his hold. Nothing can take him from it, but
that which he hopes may serve better to save him from drowning.  Thus it is with a man whose hope is set
upon the world, and whose happiness [is] expected to be paid in from thence.  O how such a one hugs and hangs about
the world!  You may as soon
persuade a fox to come out of his hole, where he hath taken sanctuary from the
dogs.  Such a one to cast off his
hopes!  No, he is undone without
this pelf and that honour; it is that he hath a lid up his hopes in, and hope
and life are ever kept in the same hand. 
Scare and threaten him with what you will, still the man's heart will
hold its own.  Yea, throw hell‑fire
into his bosom, and tell him this love of the world, and making gold his hope,
will damn him another day, still he will hold to his way.

           Felix
is a fit instance for this, Acts 24:26. 
Paul preached a thundering sermon before him; and though the preacher
was at the bar, and Felix on the bench, yet God so armed the word, that he
‘trembled’ to hear the prisoner speak ‘of righteousness, temper­ance, and
judgment to come.’  Yet this man,
notwith­standing his conscience was struggling with the fears of judgement, and
some sparks of divine vengeance had taken fire on him, could at the same time
be sending out his heart on a covetous errand, to look for a bribe, for want of
which he left that blessed servant of God in his bloody enemies' hands; for it
is said, ver.
26,
‘he hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul, that he might
loose him.’ But he missed his market; for, as a sordid hope of a little money
made him basely refuse to deliver Paul, so the blessed hope which Paul had for
another world made him more honourably disdain to purchase his deliver­ance at
his hands with a bribe.

           Third Instance.  This hope of salvation, where it is
steadfast, makes the Christian active and zealous for God.  It is called ‘a lively hope,’ I Peter 1:3.  They are men of mettle that have
it.  You may expect more from him
than many others, and not be deceived. Why are men dull and heavy in their
service of God? Truly because their hopes are so.  Hopeless and life­less go together.  No marvel the work goes hardly off a‑hand,
when men have no hope, or but little, to be well paid for their labour in doing
of it.  He that thinks he works for
a song, as we say, will not sing at his work—I mean, be forward and cheery in
it.  The best customer is sure to
be served best and first, and him we count the best customer that we hope will
be the best paymaster.  If God be
thought so, we will leave all to do his business.  This made Paul engage so deep in the service of the gospel,
[as] even to lose his worldly friends, and lay his own life to stake, it was
‘for the hope of the promise,’ Acts 26:6. This made the other Israelites that feared
God follow the trade of godliness so close, ‘unto which promise our twelve
tribes, instantly serving God day and night, hope to come,’ ver. 7.  Mark, they are both instant, and con­stant,
¦< ¦6J,<,\‘.  They run with full speed, stretch­ing
themselves forth as in a race; and this, at night and day—no stop or halt in
their way, but ever put­ting on. 
And what is it that keeps them in breath? even the hope that they shall
at last come to that salvation promised. 
Nothing better to expectorate and clear the soul of this dull phlegm of
sloth and listlessness of spirit in the service of God, than hope well improved
and strengthened. It is the very physic which the apostle prescribes for this
disease: ‘We desire that every one of you show the same diligence to the full
assurance of hope unto the end; that ye be not slothful,’ Heb. 6:11, 12.

           Fourth Instance.  Hope begets in the Chris­tian a holy
impatience after further attainments, espe­cially when it grows to some
strength.  The higher our hopes
of salvation rise, the more will our hearts widen and distend themselves in
holy desires.  ‘Not only they, but
ourselves also, which have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves
groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our
body,’ Rom.
8:23.
Methinks rejoicing would better become them for what they have already, than
groan­ing for what they have not. Who may better stay long for their dinner,
than they who have their stomachs stayed with a good breakfast?  This would hold in bodily food, but not
spiritual.  No doubt, the sweet­ness
which they tasted from their first‑fruits in hand did cheer their spirits; but
the thoughts of what was behind made them groan.  Hope waits for all, and will not let the soul sit down
contented till all the dishes be on the board—till the whole harvest that
stands on the field of the promise be reaped and well inned; yea, the more the
Christian hath received in partial payments, the deeper groans hope makes the
soul fetch for what is behind.  And
that,

           First.  Because these foretastes do acquaint
the Christian more with the nature of those joys which are in heaven, and so
enlarge his understanding to have more raised conceptions of the felicity those
en­joy that are arrived there. 
And the increasing of his knowledge must needs enlarge his desires; and
those desires break out into sad groans, to think what sweet wine is drunk in
full bowls by glorified saints, and he living where only a sip is allowed, that
doth not satisfy but kindle his thirst. 
It is harder now for him to live on this side heaven than before he knew
so much. He is like one that stands at the door within which is a rich
feast.  He hears them how merry
they are.  Through the keyhole he
sees what variety they have; and by a little which he licks from the trenchers
that are brought out is sensible how delicious their fare is. O how such a
one’s teeth would water after their cheer; which another misse th not that
hears not of it, or only hears, and tastes not of their dainties!  The nearer the soul stands to heaven,
and the more he knows of their joys, the more he blesseth them and pities
himself.  None long for heaven more
than those who enjoy most of heaven. 
All delays now are exceed­ingly tedious to such.  Their continual moan is, ‘Why is his
chariot so long in coming? why tarry the wheels of his chariot?’  The last year is thought longer by the
apprentice than all his time before, because it is nearer out.  And if delays be so tedious, what then
are desertions to such a soul, who hath his hopes of salva­tion raised high by
the sweet illapses of the Spirit and foretastes of glory!  No doubt Moses’ death so nigh Canaan,
after he had tasted of the fruit of the land at the spies’ hand, was exceeding
grievous.  To lose a child grown
up, when we seem ready to reap our hopes conceived of him, is more than to part
with two in the cradle, that have not yet drawn our conceptions far.  The Christian indeed, cannot quite lose
his hopes.  Yet he may have them
nipped and set back, as a forward spring, by after‑claps of winter weather, which
pinches so much the more because the warm beams of the sun had made the herbs
come forth and disclose themselves. 
And so desertions from God do make the saddest impression upon those,
above all others, whose expectation had advanced far, and, by the present sense
of divine goodness, been unfolded into a kind of rejoicing through hope of
glory.  Now to meet with a damp
from the frowns of the Almighty, and to be benighted by the withdrawing of that
light which did so ravish it, O how dreadful must this sudden change be to the
soul!

           Second.  These present attainments of grace or
comfort, they do embolden the soul to expect yet more; and so provoke the
Christian to press on for the full payment of all.  See both these in David: ‘Be­cause thou
hast been my help, therefore in the sha­dow of thy wings will I rejoice,’ Ps. 63:7.  The present boon he hath got makes him
rejoice in hope of what is yet to come, and by this scent he is carried out
with full cry to pursue the chase for more, as appears in the very next words,
‘my soul followeth hard after thee,’ ver. 8.  And no wonder, if we consider that God gives his people
their experiences with this very no­tion stamped on them, i.e. to raise
their expectations for further mercies at his hand: ‘I will give her her
vineyards from thence, and the valley of Achor for a door of hope,’ Hosea 2:15.  God is there speaking to a soul
converted and newly taken into covenant, what blessings he will bestow on it,
as the happy effects of its reconciliation to God and marriage with Christ, and
he alludes to his dealing with Israel, who came out of a desolate
wilderness—where they had wan­dered, and endured unspeakable hardship, forty
years —into a pleasant fruitful country, in the very en­trance where whereof
this Achor lay, which, when God gave them, he would not have them look on it as
in itself it was a little spot of ground, and not so much worth, but as the
opening of a door through which he would undertake to let them into the
possession of the whole land in process of time; which circum­stance, believed
by them, made Joshua advance his banners with so much courage against the
proudest of his enemies, well knowing that man could not shut that door upon
them which God had opened to them.

           Thus
every particular assistance God gives the Christian against one corruption, is
intended by God to be an Achor—‘a door of hope,’ from which he may expect the
total overthrow of that cursed seed in his bosom.  When he adds the least degree of strength to his grace or
comfort he gives us an Achor, or door of hope, that he will consummate both in
glory.  O what courage this must
needs bring to thee, poor heart, in thy fears and faintings!  Paul had many enemies at Ephesus to
oppose him, but having ‘an effectual door opened unto him,’ for his encouragement,
he went on undauntedly, I
Cor. 16:9.  As an army, when, after stub­born
resistance by the enemy, who labour what they can to keep them out, the door or
gate of the city flies open, then the soldiers press in amain with a shout,
‘the city is our own.’  Thus when,
after long tugging, and much wrestling with God for pardon of sin, or strength
against sin, the door of the promise flies open, and God comes in with some
assisting, com­forting presence, now hope takes heart, and makes the soul fall on
with double force and zeal.

 

 

 

SECOND
OFFICE.

 

[Hope, as the
Christian’s helmet, makes

him faithful in the meanest services.]

 

           As
hope raiseth the Christian’s spirit to attempt great exploits, so it makes
him diligent and faithful in the meanest and lowest services that the
providence of God calls him to;—for the same providence lays out every one
his work and calling, which sets bounds for their habitations on the
earth.  Some he sets on the high
places of the earth, and appoints them hon­ourable employments, suitable to
their place.  Others he pitcheth
down on lower ground, and orders them in some obscure corner, to employ
themselves about work of an inferior nature all their life, and we need not be
ashamed to do that work which the great God sets us about.  The Italians say true, ‘No man fouls
his hands in doing his own business.’ 
Now, to en­courage every Christian to be faithful in his particular
place, he hath made promises that are applicable to them all.  Promises are like the beams of the sun:
they shine in as freely at the window of the poor man’s cottage as of the
prince’s palace.  And these hope
trades with, and from these animates the Chris­tian at his work.  Indeed, we are no more faithful in our
callings than [we are] acted by faith and hope therein.

           Now,
you shall observe, God lays his promise, so as it may strengthen our hands and
hearts against the chief discouragement that is most like to weaken them in
their callings.  The great
discouragement of those high and public employments—magistracy and ministry—is
the difficulty of the province, and oppo­sition they find from the angry
world.  These there­fore are
guarded and supported with such promises as may fortify their hearts against
the force and fury with which the world comes forth to oppose them.  ‘I will not fail thee, nor forsake
thee: be strong and of a good courage,’ Joshua 1:5, [a promise] which was given to
Israel’s chief magistrate. And the minister’s prom­ise suits well with this, as
having ordinarily the same difficulties, enemies, and discouragements: ‘Go ye
therefore and teach all nations;...and, lo, I am with you always, even unto the
end of the world,’ Matt.
28:19, 20.  Again, the temptation which usually
haunts persons in low and more ignoble callings, is the very meanness of them;
which occasions discontent and envy in some, to see themselves on the floor,
and their brother preferred to more honourable services; in others, dejection
of spirit, as if they were, like the eunuch, but dry trees, unprofitable, and
brought no glory to God, while others, by their more eminent places and
callings, have the advantage of being highly serviceable to God in their
generations.  Now, to arm the
Christian against this temptation, and remove this discouragement, God hath annexed
as great a reward in the promise to his faithfulness in the meanest em­ployment,
as the most honourable is capable of. What more mean and despicable than the
servant’s employ­ment? yet no less than heaven itself is promised to them if
faithful.  He is speaking there to
such.  ‘What­soever ye do, do it
heartily, as to the Lord, and not unto men; knowing that of the Lord ye shall
receive the reward of the inheritance: for ye serve the Lord Christ,’ Col. 3:23, 24.  Where observe,

           First.  What honour he puts on the poor serv­ants’
work.  He serves the Lord
Christ; yea, in the lowest piece of work that belongs to his office.  His drudgery is divine service, as well
as his praying and hearing; for he saith, ‘Whatsoever ye do.’  Again observe,

           Second.  The reward that is laid up for such;
and that is as great as he shall receive that hath been faith­ful in ruling
kingdoms, ‘the reward of the inherit­ance.’  As if God had said, ‘Be not, O my child, out of love with
thy coarse homely work.  Ere long
thou shalt sit as high as he that sways sceptres.  Though your employment now be not the same with his, yet
your acceptation is the same, and so shall your reward also be.’  Thus we see, as we bestow more abundant
honour on those members which we think less hon­ourable; so doth Christ with
those members of his body which, by reason of their low place in the world, may
be thought to be most despised—he puts an abundant honour upon them in his
promise.  And where hope is raised,
the Christian cannot but take sweet satisfaction from the expectation
thereof.  The poor ploughman that
is a saint, and plows in hope of reaping salvation, would be as well contented
with his place and work as the bravest courtier is with his. Think of this,
when any of you have a servant to choose; if you would have your work
faithfully and heartily done, employ such about it—if they be to be had—as have
a hope of salvation.  This will not
suffer them to wrong you, though they could.  Their helmet will defend them from such temptations.  Jacob was a true drudge for his master
Laban by day and by night, though he used him none of the best in chop­ping and
changing his wages so oft.  But
Jacob served in hope, and expected his reward from a better master than Laban;
and this made him faithful to an unfaith­ful man.  Joseph would not wrong his master, though at the request of
his mistress.  He chose to suffer
his unjust anger, rather than accept of her unchaste love. The evidence of this
grace in a servant is better se­curity for his faithfulness than a bond of a
thousand pounds.

 

 

 

THIRD
OFFICE.

 

[Hope, as the
Christian’s helmet,

supports
him in the greatest afflictions.]

 

           This
hope of salvation supports the soul in the greatest afflictions.  The Christian’s patience is, as it were,
his back, on which he bears his burdens; and some afflictions are so heavy,
that he needs a broad one to carry them well.  But if hope lay not the pillow of the promise between his
back and his burden, the least cross will prove insupportable; therefore it is
called ‘the patience of hope,’ I Thes. 1:3. 
There is a patience, I confess, and many know not a better, when men
force themselves into a kind of quietness in their troubles because they cannot
help it, and there is no hope. 
This I may call a desperate pa­tience, and it may do them some service
for a while, and but for a while. 
If despair were a good cure for troubles, the damned would have more
ease; for they have despair enough, if that would help them.  There is another patience also very common
in the world, and that is a blockish stupid patience, which, like Nabal’s
mirth, lasts no longer than they are drunk with ignorance and senselessness;
for they no sooner come to themselves to understand the true state they are in,
but their hearts die within them.

           But
‘the patience of hope,’ we are now treating of, is a sober grace, and abides as
long as hope lasts; when hope is lively and active, then it floats, yea even
danceth aloft the waters of affliction, as a tight sound ship doth in a
tempestuous sea; but when hope springs a leak, then the billows break into the
Chris­tian’s bosom, and he sinks apace, till hope, with much labour at the pump
of the promise, clears the soul again. 
This was David's very case. 
‘Save me, O God; for the waters are come in unto my soul,’ Ps. 69:1.  What means he by ‘coming unto his
soul?’ Sure­ly no other than this, that they oppressed his spirit, and as it
were sued into his very conscience, raising fears and perplexities there, by
reason of his sins, which at present put his faith and hope to some dis­order,
that he could not for a while see to the com­fortable end of his affliction,
but was as one under water, and covered with his fears; as appears by what
follows, ‘I sink in deep mire, where there is no stand­ing,’ ver. 2.  He compares himself to one in a quag­mire,
that can feel no firm ground to bear him up. And observe whence his trouble
rose, and where the waters made their entrance: ‘O God, thou knowest my
foolishness; and my sins are not hid from thee,’ ver. 5.  This holy man lay under some fresh guilt, and this made him
so uncomfortable under his affliction, because he saw his sin in the face of
that and tasted some displeasure from God for it in his outward trouble, which
made it so bitter in the going down; and therefore, when once he hath humbled
himself in a mournful confession of his sin, and was able to see the coast
clear betwixt heaven and him, so as to be­lieve the pardon of his sin, and hope
for good news from God again, he then returns to the sweet temper, and can sing
in the same affliction where before he did sink.  But more particularly I shall show what powerful influence
hope hath on the Christian in af­fliction, and how.  First. What
influence it hath.  Second. Whence and how hope hath this
virtue.

 

[The influence of hope on

the Christian in
affliction.]

 

           First.  What influence hope hath on the Christian in affliction.

           First
Influence.  Hope stills and
silenceth the Christian under affliction.  It keeps the king’s peace in the heart, which else would
soon be in an uproar. A hopeless soul is clamorous.  One while it chargeth God, another while it reviles
instruments.  It cannot long rest,
and no wonder, when hope is not there to rock it asleep.  Hope hath a rare art in stilling a fro­ward
spirit when nothing else can; as the mother can make the crying child quiet by
laying it to the breast, when the rod makes it cry worse.  This way David took, and found it
effectual.  When his soul was out
of quiet, by reason of his present affliction, he lays his soul to the breast
of the promise.  ‘Why art thou cast
down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope in God,’ Ps. 43:5.  And here his soul sweetly sleeps, as
the child with the teat in his mouth. 
And that this was his usual way, we may think by the fre­quent instances
we find to this purpose.  Thrice we
find him taking this course in two psalms, Ps 42 and 43. When Aaron and Miriam were so
uncivil with Moses, and used him so ill in their foul language, no doubt it was
a heavy affliction to the spirit of that holy man, and aggravation of his
sorrow, to consider out of whose bow these sharp arrows came; yet it is said,
‘Moses held his peace’—waiting for God to clear his innocency.  And his patience made God, no doubt,
the more angry to see this meek man wronged, who durst trust him with the
righting of his name; and therefore [it was that] with such speed he wiped off
the dirt they had thrown on him, before it could soak in to the prejudice of
his good name in the thoughts of others. 
Indeed this waiting on God for deliverance in an afflicted state,
consists much in a holy silence. ‘Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him
cometh my salvation,’ Ps.
62:1—or,
as the Hebrew, ‘my soul is silent.’ 
It is a great mercy, in an affliction that is sharp, to have our bodily
senses, so as not to lie rav­ing or roaring, but still and quiet; much more to
have the heart silent and patient. 
And we find the heart is as soon heat into a distemper, as the
head.  Now, what the sponge is to
the cannon when hot with often shooting, that is hope to the soul in multiplied
afflic­tions; it cools the spirit, and meekens it, that it doth not fly
apieces, and break out into distempered thoughts or words against God.

           Second
Influence.  This hope fills
the afflicted soul with such inward joy and consolation, that it can laugh
while tears are in the eye—sigh and sing all in a breath.  It is called ‘the rejoicing of hope,’ Heb. 3:6. And hope
never affords more joy than in affliction. It is on a watery cloud that the sun
paints those curious colours in the rainbow.  ‘Rejoice in hope of the glory of God, and not only so, but
we glory in tribulations,’ Rom. 5:2, 3. 
Glorying is rejoicing in a ravishment —when it is so great that it
cannot contain itself with­in the Christian’s own breast, but comes forth in
some outward expression, and lets others know what a feast it sits at
within.  The springs of comfort lie
high indeed when his joy pours out at the mouth. And all this joy with which
the suffering saint is entertained, is sent in by hope at the cost of Christ,
who hath provided such unspeakable glory for them in heaven as will not suffer
them to pity or bemoan themselves for those tribulations that befall them on
the way to it.  Dum mala
pungunt, bona promissa un­guunt—while calamities smite with oppression, the
gracious promises anoint with their blessings.  Hope breaks the alabaster box of the promise over the
Christian’s head, and so diffuseth the consolations thereof abroad the soul,
which, like a precious oint­ment, have a virtue, as to exhilarate and refresh
the spirit in its faintings, so to heal the wounds and re­move the smart which
the Christian’s poor heart may feel from its affliction, according to the
apostle in the aforementioned place: ‘Hope maketh not ashamed; because the love
of God is shed abroad in our hearts,’ Rom. 5:5.

           There
are two graces which Christ useth above any other to fill the soul with joy;
and they are faith and hope, because these two fetch all their wine of joy
without doors.  Faith tells the
soul what Christ hath done for it, and so comforts it.  Hope revives the soul with news of what
Christ will do.  Both draw at one
tap—Christ and his promise. 
Whereas the other gra­ces present the soul with its own inherent
excellencies —what it doth and suffers for him, rather than what he does for
them; so that it were neither honourable for Christ, nor safe for the saint, to
draw his joy from this vessel. Not honourable to Christ!  This were the way to have the king’s
crown set on the subject’s head, and cry Hosanna! to the grace of Christ in us,
which is due only to the mercy of God in us.  For thither we will carry our praise whence we have our joy;
and therefore upon our allegiance we are only to ‘rejoice in Christ Jesus, and
have no confidence in the flesh,’ Php. 3:3.  And it would be no more safe for us than honourable for him,
because of the instability of our hearts, and unconstant actings of our graces,
which are as oft ebbing as flowing. 
And so our joy could not be constant, because our graces are not; but as
these springs lie high or low, so would this rise and fall. Yea, we were sure
to drink more water than wine —oftener want joy than have it.  Whereas now, the Christian’s cup need
never be empty, because he draws his wine from an undrainable Fountain that
never sends any poor soul away ashamed, as the brook of our inherent grace
would certainly, at one time or other, do.

 

[Whence and how hope hath its

supporting influence
in affliction.]

 

           Second.  Whence and how hope hath its virtue; or what are the
ingredients in hope's cordial that thus exhilarates the saint's spirit in
affliction.

           First
Answer.  Hope brings certain
news of a happy issue, that shall shortly close up all the wounds made by his
present sufferings.  When God
comes to save his afflicted servants, though he may antedate their hopes, and
surprise them before they looked for him, yet he doth not come unlooked
for.  Salvation is that they lot
upon: ‘For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the Lord,
thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an expected end,’ Jer. 29:11—that is, an
end suitable to the hopes and expec­tations taken up by you.  Hope is a prying grace; it is able to
look beyond the exterior transactions of provi­dence.  It can, by the help of the promise, peep into the very bosom
of God, and read what thoughts and purposes are written there concerning the
Christian’s particular estate, and this it imparts to him, bidding him not to
be at all troubled to hear God speaking roughly to him in the language of his
providence. ‘For,’ saith hope, ‘I can assure thee he means thee well, whatever
he saith that sounds otherwise. 
For as the law, which came hundreds of years after the promise made to
Abraham, could not disannul it, so neither can any intervening afflictions make
void those thoughts and counsels of love which so long before have been set
upon his heart for thy deliver­ance and salvation.’  Now, such a one must needs have a great advantage above
others for the pacifying and satisfying his spirit concerning the present pro­ceedings
of God towards him; because, though the actings of God on the outward stage of
providence be now sad and grievous, yet he is acquainted with heaven's plot
therein, and is admitted as it were into the attiring room of his secret counsel,
where he sees garments of salvation preparing, in which he shall at last be
clad, and come forth with joy.  The
traveller, when taken in a storm, can stand patiently under a tree while it
rains, because he hopes it is but a show­er, and sees it clear up in one part
of the heavens, while it is dark in another.  Providence, I am sure, is never so dark and cloudy but hope
can see fair weather a‑coming from the promise.  ‘When these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and
lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh,’ Luke 21:28.  And this is as black a day as can come.

           When
the Christian’s affairs are most disconso­late, he may soon meet with a happy
change.  The joy of that blessed
day, I
Cor. 15:52,
comes ¦< •J@µå ¦< Õ4B­ ÏN2V8µ@Ø—‘in a
moment, in the twinkling of an eye,’ we shall be ‘changed.’  In one moment sick and sad, in the next
well and glad, never to know more what groans and tears mean.  Now clad with the rags of mortal flesh,
made miserable with the thou­sand troubles that attend it; ‘in the twinkling of
an eye’ arrayed with robes of immortality, embossed and enriched with a
thousand times more glory than the sun itself wears in the garment of light
which now dazzleth our eyes to look on. 
‘It is but winking,’ said a holy martyr to his fellow‑sufferer in the
fire with him, ‘and our pain and sorrow is all over with.’  Who can wonder to see a saint cheerful
in his afflictions that knows what good news he looks to hear from heaven, and
how soon he knows not?  You have
heard of the weapon‑salve, that cures wounds at a distance. Such a kind of
salve is hope.  The saints’ hope is
laid up in heaven, and yet it heals all their wounds they receive on
earth.  But this is not all.  For, as hope prophesies well concerning
the happy end of the Christian’s afflictions, so it assures him he will be well
tended and looked to while he lies under them.  If Christ sends his disciples to sea, he means to be with
them when they most need his company. 
The well child may be left a while by the mother, but the sick one she
will by no means stir from.  ‘When
thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee,’ Isa. 43:2.

           You
know what God said to Moses when he was sick of his employment, and made so
many mannerly or rather unmannerly excuses from his own inability —and all that
he might have leave to lay down his commission: ‘Go,’ saith God, ‘and I will be
with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say,’ Ex. 4:12. And again,
‘Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? 
I know that he can speak well. 
And also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee,’ ver. 14.  Thus God did ani­mate him, and toll
[draw] him on to like that hard province he was called to.  Methinks I hear hope, as God’s
messenger, speaking after the same sort to the drooping soul oppressed with the
thoughts of some great affliction, and ready to conclude he shall be able to
stem so rough a tide—bear up cheerfully and lift up his head above such surging
waves.  ‘Go, O my soul,’ saith
hope, ‘for thy God will be with thee, and thou shalt suffer at his charge.  Is not Christ thy brother? yea, is he
not thy husband?  He, thou
thinkest, can tell how to suffer, who was brought up to the trade from the
cradle to the cross.  Behold, even
he comes forth to meet thee, glad to see thy face, and willing to impart some
of his suffering skill unto thee.’ 
That man indeed must needs carry a heavy heart to prison with him, who
knows neither how he can be maintained there nor delivered thence.  But hope easeth the heart of both
these, which taken away, suffering is a harmless thing and not to be dreaded.

           Second
Answer.  Hope assures the
Christian not only of the certainty of salvation coming, but also of the
transcendency of this salvation to be such, as the sorrow of his present
sufferings bears no proportion to the joy of that.  This kept the primitive Christians from
swooning while their enemies let out their blood.  They had the scent of this hope to exhilarate their spirits:
‘For which cause we faint not; but though our outward man perish, yet the
inward man is renewed day by day,’ II Cor. 4:16.  Is not this strange, that their spirit and courage should
increase with the losing of their blood? 
What rare unheard‑of cordial was this?  ‘For our light affliction, which is but for a moment,
worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory,’ ver. 17.  Behold here the dif­ference betwixt
hopes of heaven and hopes of the world. 
These latter, they are fanciful and slighty, seem great in hope but
prove nothing in hand; like Eve’s apple, fair to look on as they hang on the
tree, but sour in the juice, and of bad nourishment in the eating.  They are, as one calls them wittily,
‘nothing between two dishes.’  It
were well if men could in their worldly hopes come but to the unjust steward’s
reckoning, and for a hundred felicities they promise themselves from the
enjoyments they pursue, find but fifty at last paid them.  No, alas! they must not look to come to
so good a market, or have such fair deal­ings, that have to do with the
creature, which will certainly put them to greater disappointments than
so.  They may bless themselves if
they please for a while in their hopes, as the husbandman sometimes doth in the
goodly show he hath of corn standing upon his ground; but by that time they
have reaped their crop and thrashed out their hopes, they will find little
besides straw and chaff—emptiness and vanity —to be left them.  A poor return, God knows, to pay them
for the expense of their time and strength which they have laid out upon
them!  Much less suitable to
recompense the loss he is put to in his conscience; for there are few who are
greedy hunters after the world’s enjoyments, that do drive this worldly trade
without running in debt to their consciences.  And I am sure he buys gold too dear, that pays the peace of
his conscience for the purchase. 
But heaven is had cheap, though it be with the loss of all our carnal
interests, even life itself.  Who
will grudge with a sorry lease of a low-rented farm, in which he also hath but
a few days left before it expires (and such our temporal life is), for the
perpetuity of such an inherit­ance as is to be had with the saints in light?
This hath ever made the faithful servants of God carry their lives in their
hands, willing to lay them down, ‘while they look not at the things which are
seen, but at the things which are not seen: for the things which are seen are
temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal,’ II Cor. 4:18.

           Third
Answer.  As hope assures the
soul of the certainty and transcendency of heaven's salvation, so also of
the necessary subserviency that his afflictions have towards his obtaining this
salvation.  ‘Ought not Christ
to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?’ Luke 24:26.  As if Christ had said, ‘What reason
have you so to mourn, and take on for your Master’s death, as if all your hopes
were now split and split?  Ought he
not to suffer?  Was there any other
way he could get home, and take possession of his glory that waited for him in
heaven?  And if you do not grudge
him his preferment, never be so inordi­nately troubled to see him onwards to
it, though through the deep and miry land of suffering.’  And truly the saint’s way to salvation
lies in the same road that Christ went in: ‘If so be that we suffer with him,
that we may be also glorified together,’ Rom. 8:17; only with this advantage, that his
going before hath beaten it plain, so that now it may be forded, which but for
him had been utterly impassable to us. 
Afflictions understood with this notion upon them—that they are as
necessary for our waftage to glory as water is to carry the ship to her port,
which may as soon sail without water, as a saint land in heaven without the
subserviency of afflictions—this notion, I say, well understood, would
reconcile the greatest afflictions to our thoughts, and make us delight to walk
in their company.  This knowledge
Parisiensis calls unus de septem radiis divini scientiæ—one of the seven
beams of divine knowledge; for the want of which we call good evil, and evil
good—think God blesseth us when we are in the sunshine of prosperity, and curs­eth
when our condition is overcast with a few clouds of adversity.  But hope hath an eye that can see heav­en
in a cloudy day, and an anchor that can find firm land under a weight of waters
to hold by; it can expect good out of evil.  The Jews open their windows when it thunders and lightens,
expecting, they say, their Messiah to come at such a time to them.  I am sure hope opens her window widest
in a day of storm and tempest: ‘I will also leave in the midst of thee an
afflicted and poor people, and they shall trust in the name of the Lord,’ Zeph. 3:12, and, Micah 7:7, ‘There­fore
I will look unto the Lord; I will wait for the God of my salvation: my God will
hear me.’  See what strong hold
hope’s anchor takes.  And it is a
remark­able ‘therefore,’ if you observe the place.  Because all things were at so desperate a pass in the
church’s affairs—as there you will find them to be in man’s
thinking—‘therefore,’ saith the saint, ‘I will look, I will wait.’  Indeed, God doth not take the axe into
his hand to make chips.  His
people, when he is hewing them, and the axe goes deepest, they may expect some
beautiful piece at the end of the work.

           It
is a sweet meditation Parisiensis hath upon ‘We know that all things work
together for good to them that love God,’ Rom. 8:28.  Ubi magis intrepida magis pensata esse debes, quàm inter
cooperarios meos, et coadjutores meos?—Where, O my soul, shouldst thou be
more satisfied, free of care and fear, then when thou art among thy fellow‑labourers,
and those that come to help thee to attain thy so‑much desired salvation, which
thy afflictions do?  They work
together with ordinances and other providential dealings of God for good; yea,
thy chief good, and thou couldst ill spare their help as any other means which
God appoints thee.  Should one
find, as soon as he riseth in the morning, some on his house‑top tearing off
the tiles, and with axes and hammers taking down the roof thereof, he might at
first be amazed and troubled at the sight, yea, think they are a company of
thieves and enemies come to do him some mischief; but when he understands they
are workmen sent by his father to mend his house, and make it better than it
is—which cannot be done without taking some of it down he is satisfied and
content to endure the present noise and trouble, yea thankful to his father for
the care and cost he bestows on him. 
The very hope of what advantage will come of their work makes him very
willing to dwell a while amidst the ruins and rubbish of his old house.  I do not wonder to see hopeless souls
so impatient in their sufferings—sometimes even to distraction of mind. Alas!
they fear presently—and have reason so to do —that they come to pull all their
worldly joys and comforts down about their ears; which gone, what, alas! have
they left to comfort them, who can look for nothing but hell in another
world?  But the believer’s heart is
eased of all this, because assured from the promise that they are sent on a
better errand to him from his heavenly Father, who intends him no hurt, but
rather good—even to build the ruinous frame of a his soul into a glorious
temple at last; and these af­flictions come, among other means, to have a hand
in the work; and this satisfies him, that can say, ‘Lord, cut and hew me how
thou wilt, that at last I may be polished and framed according to the platform
[pat­tern] which love hath drawn in thy heart for me.’ Though some ignorant man
would think his clothes spoiled when besmeared with fuller’s earth or soap, yet
one that knows the cleansing nature of them will not be afraid to have them so
used.

 

 

 

FOURTH
OFFICE.

 

[Hope, as the
Christian’s helmet,
quiets his spirit

when
God delays to perform his promise.]

 

           The
fourth and last office of hope propounded is, to quiet and compose the
Christian’s spirit when God stays long before he come to perform promises.
Patience, I told you, is the back on which the Chris­tian’s burdens are
carried, and hope the pillow between the back and the burden, to make it sit
easy. Now patience hath two shoulders; one to bear the present evil, and
another to forbear the future good promised, but not yet paid.  And as hope makes the burden of the present
evil of the cross light, so it makes the longest stay of the future good
promised short.  Whereas, without
this, the creature could have neither the strength to bear the one, nor forbear
and wait for the other.  ‘And I
said, My strength and my hope is perished from the Lord,’ Lam. 3:18; implying thus
much, that where there is no hope there is no strength.  The soul's comfort lies drawing on, and
soon gives up the ghost, where all hope fails.  God un­dertook for Israel’s protection and provision in the
wilderness, but when their dough was spent, and their store ended, which they
brought out of Egypt, they fall foul with God and Moses.  And why? but because their hope was
spent as soon as their dough. 
Moses ascends the mount, and is but a few days out of their sight, and
in all haste they must have a golden calf. And why? but because they gave him
for lost, and never hoped to see him more.  This is the reason why God hath so few servants that will
stick fast to him, because God puts them to wait for what he means to give, and
most are short-spirited, and cannot stay. You know what Naomi said to her
daughters, ‘If I should have an husband also to night, and should also bear
sons; would ye tarry for them till they were grown? would ye stay for them from
having hus­bands?’ Ruth
1:12, 13.  The promise hath salvation in the womb
of it; but will the unbeliever, a soul without heavenly hope, stay till the
promise ripens, and this happiness be, as I may so say, grown up?  No, sure, they will rather make some
match with the beggarly creature, or any base lust that will pay them in some
pleasure at present, than wait so long, though it be for heaven itself.  Thus as Tamar played the strumpet be­cause
the husband promised was not given her so soon as she desired, Gen. 38, so it is
the undoing of many souls because the comfort, joy, and bliss of the promise is
withheld at present, and his people are made to wait for their reward;
therefore they throw themselves into the embraces of this adulterous world that
is present.  ‘Demas hath forsaken
me, having loved this present world,’ II Tim. 4:10.  The soul only that hath this divine hope will be found
patiently to stay for the good of the promise. Now, in handling this last
office of hope, I shall do these three things—

First. I shall show you that God oft stays long before he pays
in the good things of the promise.

Second. That when God stays longest before he performs his
promises, it is our duty to wait.

Third. That hope will enable the soul to wait when he stays
longest.

 

[God oft stays long before he fulfills
his promise.]

 

           First.  God oft stays long before he pays in the good things of
the promise.  The promise
contains the matter of all our hopes;—called therefore ‘the hope of the
promise.’  To hope without a
promise is to claim a debt that never was owing.  Now the good things of the promise are not paid down
presently; in­deed, then there would be not such use of the prom­ises.  What need of a bond where the money is
pres­ently paid down?  God promised
Abraham a son, but he stayed many years for him after the bond of the promise
was given him.  He promised Canaan
to him and his seed, yet hundreds of years interposed be­tween the promise and
performance. Esau was spread into a kingdom before the heirs of promise had
their inheritance, or one foot of land [was] given them in it.  Yea, all the patriarchs, who were the
third genera­tion after Abraham, died, ‘not having received the promises,’ Heb. 11:13.  Simeon had a promise ‘he should not see
death, before he had seen the Lord’s Christ,’ Luke 2:26.  But this was not performed till he had one foot in the
grave, and was even taking his leave of the world.

           In
a word, those promises which are the portion of all the saints, and may be
claimed by one as well as by another, their date is set in the book of God’s de­cree,
when to be paid in to a day; some sooner, some later; but not expressed in the
promise.  He hath engaged to answer
the prayers of his people, and ‘ful­fil the desires of those that fear him,’ Ps. 145:19.  But it proves a long voyage sometimes
before the praying saint hath the return of his adventure.  There comes oft a long and sharp winter
between the sowing time of prayer and the reaping.  He hears us indeed as soon as we pray, but we oft do not
hear him so soon. Prayers are not long on their journey to heaven, but long a‑coming
thence in a full answer.  Christ at
this day in heaven hath not a full answer to some of those prayers which he put
up on earth.  Therefore he is said
to ‘expect till his enemies be made a footstool,’ Heb 10:13.  Promises we have for the subduing sin
and Satan under our feet, yet we find these enemies still skulking within us;
and many a sad scuffle we have with them before they are routed and outed our
hearts.  And so with others.  We may find sometime the Christian—as
great an heir as he is to joy and comfort—hardly able to show a penny of his
heavenly treasure in his purse. 
And for want of well pondering this one clause, poor souls are oft led
into tempta­tion, even to question their saintship.  ‘Such promises are the saints’ portion,’ saith one; ‘but I
cannot find them performed to me, therefore I am none of them. Many a prayer I
have sent to heaven, but I hear no news of them.  The saints are conquerors over their lusts; but I am yet
often foiled and worsted by mine. There is a heaven of comfort in the promise,
but I am as it were in the belly of hell, swallowed up with fears and
terrors.’  Such as these are the
reasonings of poor souls in the distress of their spirits; whereas all this
trouble they put themselves to might be prevented, if they had faith to believe
this one principle of un­doubted truth—that God performs not his promises all
at once, and that what they want in hand they may see on the way coming to
them.

 

[Our duty is to wait, when God stays

his longest before
fulfilling his promise.]

 

           Second.  When God stays long before he makes payment of the promise, then
it is the believer’s duty to wait for it.  ‘Though it tarry, wait for it,’ Hab. 2:3. He is
speaking there of the good of the promise, which God intended to perform in the
appointed time; and because it might tarry longer than their hasty hearts
would, he bids them wait for it. 
As one that promiseth to come to a friend’s house sends him word to sit
up for him, though he tarry later than or­dinary, for he will come at last
assuredly.  This is hard work
indeed!  What! wait? When we have
stayed so long, and no sight of God’s coming after this prayer, and that
sermon!  So many long looks given
at the window of his ordinances and providences, and no tidings to be heard of
his approach in mercy and comfort to my soul; and after this, still am I bid
wait? This is wearisome work. 
True, to flesh and blood it is; yea, weak faith is oft out of breath,
and prone to sit down, or turn back, when it hath gone long to meet God in the
returns of his mercy, and misseth of him; and therefore the apostle ushers in
his duty with an affectionate prayer. 
‘The Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, and into the patient
waiting for Christ,’ II
Thes. 3:5.  He had laid down a strong ground of
consolation for them in the preceding chapter, in that they were ‘chosen to
salvation,’ and ‘called by the gospel to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord
Jesus Christ,’ II
Thes. 2:13, 14,
and assured them that God, who is ‘faithful,’ would ‘stablish them, and keep
them from evil,’ II
Thes. 3:3.  He means [this] so as they should not
miscarry, and at last fall short of the glory promised; but, being sensible how
difficult a work it was for them amidst their own present weaknesses, the
apostasies of others, and the assaults of Satan upon themselves, to hold fast
the assurance of their hope unto the end, he turns himself from them to speak
to God for them.  ‘The Lord direct
your hearts.’  And, as if he had
said, it is a way you will never find, a work you will never be able to do of
yourselves—thus to wait patiently till Christ come, and bring the full reward
of the promise with him; the Lord therefore direct your hearts into it.  And Moses, it seems, before he ascended
the mount, had a fear and jealousy of what afterward proved too true, that the
Israelites' unbelieving hearts would not have the patience to wait for his
return, when he should stay some while with God there out of their sight; to
prevent which, he gave express command before he went up that they should tarry
there for him, Ex
14:14.
Indeed, a duty more contrary than this of waiting quietly and silently on God,
bear our manners, and lackey after us, before we do what he commands: but if
the promise comes not galloping full speed to us, we think it will never be at
us.

           Question.  But why doth God, when he hath made a
promise, make his people wait so long?

           Answer.  I shall answer this question by asking
another. Why doth God make any promise at all to his creature?  This may be well asked, considering how
free God was from owing any such kindness to his creature; till, by the mere
good pleasure of his will, he put himself into bonds, and made himself, by his
promise, a debtor to his elect. 
And this proves the former question to be saucy and over-bold.  As if some great rich man should make a
poor beggar that is a stranger to him his heir, and when he tells him this, he
should ask, ‘But why must I stay so long for it?’  Truly, any time is too soon for him to receive a mercy from
God that thinks God's time in sending it too late.  This hasty spirit is as grievous to God as his stay can be
to us.  And no wonder God takes it
so hei­nously, if we consider the bitter root that bears it.

           First.
It proceeds from a selfishness of spirit, whereby we prefer our own
content and satisfaction before the glory of God, and this becomes not a gra­cious
soul.  Our comfort flows in by the
performance of the promise, but the revenue of God's honour is paid into him by
our humble waiting on him in the interval between the promise and the
performance, and is the main end why he forbears the paying it in hastily.  Jacob served seven years for Rachel;
and God sure may better make us wait, before the promise is given in to our
embraces by the full accomplishment of it.  ‘For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the
will of God, ye might receive the prom­ise,’ Heb. 10:36.  It is very fit the master should dine
before the man.  And if he would
not like a servant that would think much to stay so long from his meal as is
required at his hands for waiting at his master’s table, how much more must God
dislike the rudeness of our impatient spirits, that would be set at our meal,
and have our turn served in the comfort of the prom­ise, before he hath the
honour of our waiting on him!

           Second.  It proceeds from deep ingratitude;
and this is a sin odious to God and man. 
‘They soon for­gat his works; they waited not for his counsel,’ Ps. 106:13.  God was not behindhand with his
people.  It was not so long since
he had given them an experi­ment of his power and truth.  He had but newly lent them his hand,
and led them dry‑shod through a sea, with which they seemed to be much
confirmed in their faith, and enlarged in their acknowledgments, when they came
safe to shore: ‘then believed they his words; they sang his praise,’ Ps. 106:12.  One would have thought that God's
credit now would have gone for a great sum with them ever after.  But it proved nothing so.  They dare not trust God with so much as
their bill of fare—what they shall eat and drink; and therefore it is said,
‘they waited not for his counsel, but lusted exceedingly in the
wilderness.’  That is, they
prevented the wisdom and providence of God, which would have provided well for
them, if they could but have stayed to see how God would have spread their
table for them.  And why all this
haste? ‘They forgat his works.’ 
They had lost the thankful sense of what was past, and therefore cannot
wait for what was to come.

 

[Hope will enable the soul to wait

when the promise
stays longest.]

 

           Third.  Hope will enable the soul to wait when the promise stays
longest.  It is the very nature
of hope so to do. ‘It is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for
the salvation of the Lord,’ Lam. 3:26. 
Hope groans when the mercy promised comes not, but does not
grumble.  Hope's groans are from
the spirit sighed out to God in prayer, Rom. 8:26, and these lighten the soul of its
burden of fear and solicitous care; whereas the groans of a hopeless soul are
vented in discontented passions against God, and these are like a loud wind to
a fire, that makes it rage more. 
‘They shall drink, and be moved, and be mad, because of the sword that I
will send among them,’ Jer.
25:16.  It is spoken of the enemies of God and
his people.  God had prepared them
a draught which should have strange effects—‘they should be moved;’ as a man,
whose brain is disturbed with strong drink, is restless and unquiet: yea, ‘be
mad.’  As some, when they are
drunk, quarrel with every one they meet, so should their hearts be filled with
rage even at God himself, who runs his sword into their sides, because they had
no hope to look for any healing of their wounds at his hand.  But now where there is hope, the heart
is soon quieted and pacified.  Hope
is the handkerchief that God puts into his people’s hands to wipe the tears
from their eyes, which their present troubles, and long stay of expected
mercies, draw from them.  ‘Refrain
thy voice from weeping, and thine eyes from tears: for thy work shall be
rewarded, saith the Lord; and they shall come again from the land of the enemy,
and there is hope in thine end,’ Jer. 31:16, 17.  This, with some other comfortable promises which God gave
his prophet Jeremiah in a vision, did so overrun and fill his heart with joy,
that, he was as much recruited and comforted as a sick or weary man is after a
night of sweet sleep: ‘Upon this I awaked,...and my sleep was sweet unto me,’ ver. 26.  When, however, the promise seems to
stay long, hope pacifies the Christian with a threefold assurance.  First. Hope assures the soul,
that though God stays a while before he performs the promise, yet he doth not
delay.  Second. That when he
comes he will abun­dantly recompense his longest stay.  Third. That while he stays to
perform one promise, he will leave the comfort of another promise, to bear the
Christian company in the absence of that.

 

[A threefold assurance which hope
gives

the Christian when
God delays to perform

his promise.]

 

           First
Assurance.  Hope assures the
soul that though God stays a while before he performs the promise, yet he
doth not delay.  ‘The vision is
yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak, and not lie: though
it tarry, wait for it; because it will sure­ly come, it will not tarry,’ Hab. 2:3.  How is this? ‘Though it tarry it will
not tarry!’  How shall we rec­oncile
this tarrying and not tarrying? 
Very well. Though the promise tarries till the appointed time, yet it
will not tarry beyond it.  ‘When
the time of the promise drew nigh,’ it is said, ‘which God had sworn to
Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,’ Acts 7:17.  As the herbs and flowers which sleep
all winter in their roots underground without any mention of them, when the
time of spring ap­proacheth, presently they start forth of their beds, where
they had lain so long unperceived. 
Thus will the promise in its season do.  He delays who passeth the time appointed, but he only stays
that waits for the appointed time, and then comes.  Every promise is dated, but with a mysterious character; and
for want of skill in God's chronology, we are prone to think God forgets us,
when, indeed, we forget our­selves, in being so bold to set God a time of our
own, and in being angry that he comes not just then to us. As if a man should
set his watch by his own hungry stomach rather than by the sun, and then say it
is noon, and chide because his dinner is not ready.  We are over greedy of comfort, and expect the promise should
keep time with our hasty desires, which be­cause it doth not we are
discontented.  A high piece of
folly! The sun will not go the faster for setting our watch forward, nor the
promise come the sooner for our antedating it.  It is most true what one saith, ‘Though God seldom comes at
our day, because we seldom reckon right, yet he never fails his own day.’ That
of the apostle is observable.  He
exhorts the Thessalonian church there, ‘that they would not be shaken in mind,
or be troubled, as that the day of Christ were at hand,’ II Thes. 2:2, 3.  But what need of this exhortation to
saints, that look for their greatest joy to come with the approach of that day?
Can their hearts be troubled to hear the day of their redemption draws nigh,
the day of refreshing is at hand? 
It was not therefore, I conceive, the coming of that day which was so
unpleasing and affrighting, but the time in which some seducers would have
persuaded them to expect it, as if it had been at the very doors, and presently
would have surprised them in their genera­tion, which had been very sad indeed,
because then it should have come before many prophecies and prom­ises had
received their accomplishment, and by that means the truth of God would have
gone off the stage with a slur, which must not, shall not be, as he tells them,
‘For that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first, and that
man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition,’ II Thes. 2:3.  And as that promise stays but till
those intermediate truths, which have a shorter period, be fulfilled, and then
comes without any possible stay or stop; so do all the rest but wait till their
reckoning be out, and what God hath ap­pointed to intervene be despatched, and
they punctu­ally shall have their delivery in their set time.

           Thou
art, may be, bleeding under a wounded spirit, a poor broken‑hearted creature
that liest steep­ing in thy tears for sin.  The promise tells thee that God is nigh thee to revive thee,
thee I say by name, Isa. 57:15. 
Yet thou comest from this prayer, and that sermon, but hast no sight of
him, nor canst hear more news of his coming than what the promise gives thee.
Look now that God suffers no prejudice by his stay in thy thoughts, but
conclude that his time is not come, or else he had been ere this with thee; and
take heed of measuring God’s miles by thy own scale, for his nigh may be thy
far.  God could have told his
people the time when he meant to come with the perfor­mance of every promise as
easily as set it down in his own purpose, but he hath concealed it in most, as
a happy advantage to our faith, whereby we may more fully express our
confidence in waiting for that which we know not when we shall receive.  Abraham’s faith was great and strong to
follow God when he con­cealed the place he meant to lead him to.  For he went, ‘he knew not whither,’ Heb. 11:8.  So it requires great faith to rest
satisfied with the promise when the time of payment is hid.  But if we consider who we trade with we
can have no reason to be the least jealous, no not when he stays longest, that
he will fail or delay us a moment longer than the set time of the promise.  There are three [why] men break their
times of payment, and come not at their day.  1. Forgetfulness. 
2. Unfaithfulness.  3.
Impotency.

 

           1.
Cause.  Forgetfulness.  Many remember not what they promise.  The day comes and it is quite out of
their minds.  Men seldom forget
when they are to receive, but too oft when they are to pay, debts.  An extraordinary occasion must be sent
to rub up the butler’s memory, or else he will never think of his prison
promise.  But God’s promise is
never out of his thoughts, ‘he remembers his covenant,’ Ps. 105:8; his people
and their affairs are ‘graven on the palms of his hands, and their walls are
continually before him,’ Isa.
49:16.  Though the preferment of the Pha­raoh’s
court made the butler forget his promise to Jo­seph, yet all the glory that
Christ sees and enjoys in heaven hath not the power to blot the remembrance of
his promise to his people who lie in chains of affliction here below.  And God would have his saints take
notice of this to comfort themselves with, while [i.e. until] he
comes.  ‘I know the thoughts that I
think toward you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give
you an expected end,’ Jer.
29:11.

           2.
Cause.  Unfaithfulness.  A promise with some is no more than a
collar on an ape’s neck.  You have
them not a whit the faster by it; for they can slip off the obligation at their
pleasure.  May be they never
intended performance, when they passed it, but made use of a promise only as a
key, to lock up their inten­tion of deceiving from your present knowledge.
Others haply mean at present as they say, but soon grow sick of their
engagement, upon sight of some disadvantage which their after-thoughts discover
like­ly to befall them upon the performance, and therefore their wits are set
a-work to coin some handsome evasion to delude their engagement, or at least
delay the payment.  This made
Lysander say of some men, that they played with oaths and promises sicut
pueri cum astragalis—as children do at nine pins.  They will keep them if they can get by the per­formance; but
if it be like to prove a losing game, they will rather run debt to their
conscience by breaking them, than to their purse, or any other worldly inter­est,
by their performance.  But no fear
of God in this matter.

           (1.)
His name is truth and faithfulness.  Now can truth itself lie, or faithfulness deceive?  ‘In my Fa­ther’s house,’ saith Christ,
‘are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you; I go to prepare a
place for you, and if I go,...I will come again and receive you,’ John 14:2, 3.  See here the candour and nakedness of
our Saviour’s heart.  As if he had
said, ‘This is no shift to be gone, that so I may by a fair tale leave you in
hopes of that which shall never come to pass. No; did I know it otherwise than
I speak, my heart is so full of love to you, that it would not have suffered me
to put such a cheat upon you for a thous­and worlds.  You may trust me to go; for as surely as you see me go,
shall your eyes see me come again to your everlasting joy.’  The promises are none of them yea and
nay, but ‘yea and amen’ in him.

           (2.)
He is wisdom as well as truth. 
As he is truth, he cannot wrong or deceive us in breaking his word; and
being wisdom, it is impossible he should promise that which should prejudice
himself.  And therefore, he makes
no blots in his purposes or promises, but what he doth in either is immutable.
Repentance is indeed an act of wisdom in the crea­ture, but it presupposeth
folly, which is incompatible to God. 
In a word, men too oft are rash in promising; and therefore what they in
haste promise they per­form at leisure. 
They consider not before they vow, and therefore inquire afterward
whether they had best stand to it. 
But the all‑wise God needs not this after-game.  As in the creation he looked back upon
the several pieces of that goodly frame, and saw them so exact that he took not
up his pencil the second time to mend anything of the first draft; so in his
promises, they are made with such infinite judgment and wis­dom, that what he
hath writ he will stand to for ever. ‘I will betroth thee unto me for ever;
yea, I will betroth thee unto me in righteousness, and in judg­ment,’ Hosea 2:19. Therefore
for ever, because in righ­teousness and in mercy.

           3.
Cause.  Impotency.  Men’s promises, alas! de­pend upon many
contingencies.  The man haply is
rich when he seals the bond, and poor before the day of payment comes
about.  A wreck at sea, a fire by
land, or some other sad accident, intervenes, either quite impoverisheth him,
or necessitates him to beg further time, with him in the gospel, ‘Have patience
with me, and I will pay thee all,’ Matt. 18:26.  But the great God cannot be put to such straits.  ‘The Strength of Israel will not lie,’ I Sam. 15:29.  As there is a lie of wickedness, when
one promiseth what he will not perform; so there is a lie that proceeds from
weakness, when a person or thing cannot perform what they promise.  Thus indeed all men, yea, all
creatures, will be found liars to all that lean on them, called therefore
‘lying vanities.’  ‘Vanities,’ as
empty and insufficient; ‘lying vanities,’ because they promise what they have
not to give.  But God, he is
propound­ed as a sure bottom for our faith to rest on in this respect.  ‘Trust ye in the Lord for ever: for in
the Lord Jehovah is strength, or everlasting strength,’ Isa. 26:4.  Such strength his is that needs not
another’s strength to uphold it. 
One man's ability to perform his promises leans on others’ ability to
pay theirs to him.  If they him,
he is forced to fail them. 
Thus we see, the breaking of one merchant proves the breaking of many
others whose estates were in his hands. 
But God’s power is independent. 
Let the whole creation break, yet God is the same as he was, as able to
help as ever.  ‘Though the fig tree
shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be in the vines.’  And, ‘yet I will rejoice in the Lord, I
will joy in the God of my salva­tion. 
The Lord God is my strength,’ Hab. 3:17-19.  O how happy are the saints! a people that can never be
undone, no, not when the whole world turns bank­rupt, because they have his
promise whose power fails not when that doth.  The Christian cannot come to God when he hath not by him
what he wants.  ‘How great is thy goodness,
which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee,’ Ps. 31:19.  It is laid up, as a father hath his
child's portion, in bags, ready to be paid him when the time comes.  The saint shall not stay a moment
beyond the date of the promise. 
‘There is forgiveness with thee,’ saith the psalmist.  It stands ready for thee against thou
comest to claim the promise.

           Second
Assurance.  Hope assures the
Christian, that though God stays long, yet, when he does come, he will
abundantly recompense his longest stay.  As the wicked get nothing by God’s forbearing to execute his
threatening, but the treasuring up more wrath for the day of wrath; so the
saints lose nothing by not having the promise presently paid into them, but ra­ther
do, by their forbearing God a while, treasure up more joy against the joyful
day, when the promise shall be performed. 
‘To them who by patient con­tinuance...seek for glory and
honour,...eternal life,’ Rom.
2:7.  Mark, it is not enough to do well, but
to ‘continue’ therein; nor that neither, except it be ‘pa­tient continuing in
well-doing’—in the midst of God’s seeming delays; and whoever he be that can do
this, shall be rewarded at last for all his patience.  Plough­ing is hungry work, yet because it is in hope of
reaping such an abundant increase, the husbandman faints not.  O my soul, saith hope, though thou
wantest thy dinner, hold but out a while, and thou shalt have din­ner and
supper served in together when night comes. The sick fits and qualms which the
Christian hath in the absence of the promise are all forgot, and the trouble of
them over, when once it comes and he is feasted with the joy it brings.  ‘Hope deferred maketh the heart sick:
but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life;’ Prov. 13:12—that is,
when it cometh in God’s time after long waiting, then it causeth an overflowing
joy.  As there is a time which God
hath set for the ripening the fruits of the earth, before which, if they be
gathered, it is to our loss; so there is a time set by God for the good things
of the promise, which we are to wait for, and not unseasonably pluck, like
green apples, off the tree—as too many do, who, having no faith or hope to
quiet their spirits while [until] God’s time comes, do therefore snatch that by
unwarrant­able means, which would in time drop ripe into their bosoms.

           And
what get these short‑spirited men by their haste?  Alas! they find their enjoyments thin and lank, like corn
reaped before it is fit for the sickle, wherewith he that bindeth the sheaves,
filleth not his bosom.  Therefore we
find this duty of waiting press­ed under this very metaphor.  ‘Be patient, brethren, unto the coming
of the Lord,’ James
5:7.  Stay God’s time, till he comes
according to his promise, and takes you off your suffering work, and be not
hasty to shift yourselves out of trouble. And why so?  ‘Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of
the earth, and hath long patience for it, until he receive the early and latter
rain.  Be ye also patient; stablish
your hearts: for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh.’ The husbandman who, the
proverb saith, is, dives in novum annum—rich in hope of the next year’s
crop —though he gladly would have his corn in the barn, yet waits for its
ripening in the ordinary course of God’s providence.  When the former rain comes he is joyful, but yet desires the
latter rain also, and stays for it, though long in coming.  And do not we see, that a shower
sometimes falls close to the time of harvest, that plumps the ear to the great increase
of the crop, which some lose, that, through distrust of providence, put in
their sickle too soon?  I am sure
mercies come fullest when most waited for.  Christ did not so soon supply them with wine at the marriage
of Cana, as his mother desired, but they had the more for staying a while.  There is a double fullness, which the
Christian may hope to find in those enjoyments that he hath with long patience
waited for, above another that can­not stay God’s leisure.

           1.
A fulness of duration. 
Enjoyments snatched out of God’s hand, and not given by it, are but
guests come, not to stay long; like David’s child born in adultery, they
commonly die in the cradle.  They
are like some fruit gathered green, which soon rots.

           Is
it riches that is thus got?  Some
are said to ‘make haste to be rich,’ Prov. 28:20.  They cannot, by a conscionable diligence in their particular
calling, and exercise of godliness in their general, wait upon God.  No; the promise doth not gallop fast
enough for them; on therefore they spur, and, by sordid prac­tices, make haste
to be rich.  But God makes as much
haste to melt their estate, as they do to gather.  No salt will keep that meat long from corrupting which was
overheated in the driving, nor any care and prov­idence of man keep that estate
from God’s curse which is got by so hot and sinful a pursuit.  ‘Wealth gotten by vanity’—that is,
vain, unwarrantable courses —‘shall be diminished,’ Prov. 13:11.  Like the unsound fat which great
drinkers and greedy eaters gain to themselves, it hath that in it that will
hasten its ruin. ‘The getting of treasure by a lying tongue is a vanity tossed
to and fro of them that seek death,’ Prov 21:6.  The meaning is, such estates are tossed like a ball, from
one to another, and are not to stay long in any hand, till it comes into the
godly man’s, whom God oft, by his providence, makes heir to such men’s riches,
as you may see, Job
27:11-23; Ecc. 2:26.

           Again,
is it comfort and inward joy?  Some
make too much haste for this.  They
are not like other Christians, who use to have a wet seed-time, and are content
to wait for joy till harvest, or at least till it be in some forwardness, and
the seed of grace, which was sown in tears of humiliation, appears above ground
in such solid evidences as do in some degree satisfy them concerning the
reality and truth of the same. 
Then indeed the sincere Christian’s spirit begins to cheer up, and his
comfort holds, yea increaseth more and more, as the sun that, after a contest
with some thick mist, breaks forth, and gets a full victory of those vapours
which for a while darkened it. 
‘The light of the righteous rejoiceth,’ Prov. 13:9—that is,
over all his fears and doubts.  But
there are others so hasty that they are catching at comfort before they were
ever led into acquaintance with godly sorrow.  They are delivered without pain, and their faith flames
forth into the joy of assurance, before any smoke of doubtings and fears were
seen to arise in their hearts.  But
alas! it is as soon lost as got, like too forward a snibbing spring, that makes
the husband­man weep at harvest; or a fair sunshine day in winter, that is the
breeder of many foul ones after it. 
The stony ground is a clear instance of this, Mark 4, whose joy
was a quickly down as up.  A storm
of persecution or temptation comes, and immediately he is offend­ed.

           In
a word, take but one instance more, and that is in point of deliverance.  Such hasty spirits that can­not wait
for the promise to open their prison door, and God to give them a release in
his time, but break prison, and by some unwarrantable practice wind themselves
out of trouble; do we not see how miser­ably they befool themselves?  For while they think, by the midwifery
of their sinful policy, to hasten their deliverance, they kill it in the birth,
which, had it come in God’s time, might have stayed many a fair day with
them.  The Jews are a sad instance
of this; who, though God gave them such full security for their deliverance
from the Babylonian hand, would yet take their own course, hoping, it seems, to
com­pass it sooner by policy than they could expect it to be effected by
providence, and therefore to Egypt they will post in all haste, not doubting
but they shall thence bring their deliverance.  But alas! it proved far otherwise; for all they got was to
have more links add­ed to their chain of bondage, and their lordly masters to
use greater rigour upon them, which God, by his prophet, bids them thank their
own hasty unbelieving spirits for. 
‘Thus saith the Lord God, the holy One of Israel, In returning and rest
shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence shall be your strength, and
ye would not,’ Isa.
30:15.  Indeed, if we look on such as have
quietly waited by hope for God’s coming to their help, we shall find they ever
sped well.  Joshua, who bore up
against all discouragements from God and man, steadfastly believing, and
patiently waiting, for the land God had promised, did he not live to walk over
their graves in the wilderness that would have turned back to Egypt? and to be
witness to their destruction also, who presumptuously went up the hill to fight
the enemy and take the land—as they vainly hoped—before God’s time was come? Deut. 1.  Yea, did not he at last divide the
land, and lay his bones in a bed of honour, after he had lived to see the
promise of God happily performed to his people? So David, whose hope and
patience was admirable in waiting for the kingdom after he had the promise of
it; especially if we consider what fair opportunities he had to take cruel Saul
out of the way, whose life alone did stand betwixt him and the throne.  Neither did he want matter to fill up a
declaration for the satisfaction and pacifying the minds of the people, if he
had a mind to have gone this way to the crown; but he knew those plausible
arguments for such a fact, which would have pleased the multitude, would not
have pa­cified his own conscience, and this stayed his hand from any such
ripping open the womb of the promise, to come by the crown with which it was
big, but left it to go its full time, and he lost nothing by it.

           2.
There flows in a fulness of benediction, with an enjoyment reaped in
God’s full time, which is lost for want of patience to wait thereunto.  Now this ben­ediction is paid into the
waiting soul’s bosom two ways. 
(1.) He hath that enjoyment sweetened to him with God’s love and favour
for his comfort.  (2.) He hath it
sanctified to him in the happy fruit it bears for his good.

           (1.)
He hath it sweetened to him with God’s love and favour for his comfort; which
he cannot so well expect that carves for himself, and cannot stay for God in
his own time to lay it on his trencher. 
There is guilt ever to be found in the company of impatience and
distrust.  And where guilt is
contracted in the get­ting of an enjoyment, there can be little sweetness
tasted when it comes to be used.  O
guilt is an embit­tering thing! It keeps the soul in a continual fear of
hearing ill news from heaven; and a soul in fear is not in case to relish the
sweetness of a mercy.  Such a one
may happily have a little tumultuous joy, and warm himself awhile at this rash
fire of his own kindling, till he comes to have some serious discourse with his
own heart in cold blood, about the way and manner of getting the enjoyment and
this is sure to send such a dampness to the heart of the poor creature as will
not suffer that fire long to burn clear. 
O what a stab it is to the heart of an oppressor, to say of his great
wealth, as that king of his crown, ‘Here is a fair estate, but God knows how I
came by it!’  What a wound to the
joy of a hypocrite!  ‘I have
pretended to a great deal of comfort, but God knows how I came by it!’ Whereas
the Christian who receives any comfort, in­ward or outward, from God’s hand, as
a return for his patient waiting, hath none of these sad thoughts to scare him
and break his drought when the cup is in his mouth.  He knows where he had his outward es­tate and inward
comfort.  He can bring God to vouch
them both, that they with his leave and liking.  There is a great odds between the joy of the husbandman, at
the happy inning of his corn in harvest, and the thief’s joy, who hath stolen
some sheaves out of an­other’s field, and is making merry with his booty as
soon as he is got home.  Possibly
you may hear a greater noise and outis[1] of joy in
the thief’s house than the honest husbandman’s, yet no compare be­tween
them.  One knock at the thief’s
door by an of­ficer that comes to search his house for stolen goods, spoils the
mirth of the whole house—who run, one this way and another that.  O what fear and shame must then take
hold on his guilty heart, that hears God coming to search for his stolen
mercies and comforts!

           (2.)
The waiting soul hath enjoyments sanctified to him for his good; and
this another wants with all he hath. 
And what is the blessing of mercy, but to have it do us good?  Hasty spirits grow worse by en­joyments
gathered out of season.  This is a
sore evil indeed, to have wealth for our hurt, and comfort for our hurt.  It was the sin of Israel that ‘they waited
not for his counsel,’ Ps.
106:13.  God had taken them as his charge, and
undertook to provide for them if they would have stood to his allowance; but
they could not stay his leisure, ‘but lusted exceedingly in the wilder­ness,
and tempted God in the desert,’ ver. 14. 
They must have what pleaseth their palate, and when their own impatient
hearts call, or not at all.  And so
they had: ‘He gave them their request,’ ver. 15.  But they had better been without their feast, for they did
not thrive by it, ‘he sent leanness into their soul,’ ver. 15. A secret
curse came with their enjoyments, which soon appeared in those great sins they
thereupon were left to commit—‘they envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron
the saint of the Lord,’ ver.
16—as
also in the heavy judgments by which God did testify against them for the same,
Num.
11:31.  Whereas mer­cies that are received in
God’s way and time, prove meat of better juice and purer nourishment to the
waiting soul.  They do not break
out into such bot­ches and plague-sores as these.  As the other are fuel for lust, so these food to the saints’
graces, and make them more humble and holy.  See this in Isa. 30:18, 19, compared with ver. 22, where
they, as a fruit of their patient waiting on God for their outward deliv­erance,
have with it that which is more worth than the deliverance itself, i.e.
grace to improve and use it hol­ily. 
It was a great mercy that Hannah had, after her many prayers and long
waiting, ‘a son;’ but a greater, that she had a heart to give up her son again
to God, that gave him to her.  To
have estate, health, or any other enjoyment upon waiting on God for the same,
is mercy, but not to be compared with that blessing which seasons and
sanctifies the heart to use them for God’s glory.  And this is the ordinary portion of the waiting soul, and
that not only in outward comforts, but inward also.  The joy and inward peace which the sincere soul hath thus,
makes it more humble, holy, heavenly; whereas the comfort which the hypocrite
comes so quickly by, either degenerates into pride and self-conceit, or empties
itself into some other fil­thy sink—sometimes even of open profaneness it­self—before
it hath run far.

           Third
Assurance.  Hope assures the
soul, that while God stays the performance of one promise, he shall have the
absence thereof supplied with the pres­ence of another.  And this is enough to quiet the heart
of any that understands himself. 
God hath laid things in such a sweet method, that there is not one point
of time wherein the soul of a believer is left wholly des­titute of comfort,
but there is one promise or other that stands to minister unto his present
wants.  Some­times, haply, he may
want what he strongly desires, yet even then care is taken for his present
subsistence; one promise bears the Christian company while another comes.  And what cause hath the sick man to
complain, though all his friends do not sit up with him together, if they take
it by turns, and never leave him without a sufficient number to look to him?

           We
read of a ‘tree of life,’ Rev.
22:2,
‘which bears twelve manner of fruits, and yieldeth her fruit every month,’ so
that it is never without some hanging on it which is fit for the eater.  What can this tree be bet­ter conceived
to be than Christ, who yields all manner of fruit in his promises, and comfort
for all times, all conditions?  The
believer can never come but he shall find some promise ripe to be eaten, with
which he may well stay his stomach till the other—whose time to be gathered is
not yet come—hangs for further ri­pening. 
Here you see the Christian hath provision for all the year long.  When Christ returned to heaven he gave
his disciples this to comfort them, that he would come again, and carry them
with him unto his father’s house, where no he lives himself in glory, John 14:2, 3. This is
sweet indeed.  But, alas! what
shall they do in the meantime to weather out those many storms which were to
intervene between this promise and the time when it shall be performed?  This also our Sav­iour considered, and
tells them he does not mean to leave them comfortless, but gives them another
promise to keep house with, in the meantime, i.e. a promise of his
Spirit—who should be with them on earth, while [until] he took them to be with
him in heaven, John
14:16.  The Christian is never at such a loss
wherein hope cannot relieve it. 
‘Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord, and whose hope the Lord
is, for he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that spreadeth out her
roots by the river, and shall not see when heat cometh, but her leaf shall be
green, and shall not be careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease
from yielding fruit,’ Jer.
17:7, 8.  These waters are the promises from
which the be­liever draws continual matter of comfort, that as a tree planted
by a river flourisheth, however the year goes, so doth he, whatever the temper
of God’s ex­terior providence is. 
Possibly the Christian is in an afflicted state, and the promise for
deliverance comes not, yet then hope can entertain him in the absence of that,
at the cost of another promise—that though God doth not at present deliver him
out of the afflic­tion, yet he will support him under it, I Cor. 10:13.  If yet the Christian cannot find this
promise paid into such a height as to discharge him of all impatience,
distrust, and other sinful distempers—which to his grief he finds too busy in
him for all the promise —then hope hath another window to let out the smoke at,
and that is by presenting the soul with those promises which assure the weak
Christian that pardoning mercy shall cover those defects which as­sisting grace
did not fully conquer.  ‘I will
spare them as a man spareth his own son that serveth him,’ Mal. 3:1.  So, Micah 7:18 ‘Who is a God like unto thee, that
pardoneth iniquity, and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his
heritage? he retaineth not his anger for ever.’  And certainly God would not have suffered so much impatience
to have broken out in Job, but that he would have something left for par­doning
mercy to do at the close of all, to which that holy man should see himself
beholden, both for his deliverance, and that honourable testimony also which
God himself gave of him before his uncharit­able friends, who from his great
afflictions, and some discomposure of spirit in them, did so unmercifully
burden him with the heavy charge of being a hypocrite.

 

 

 

 

DIRECTION
IX.—THIRD GENERAL PART.

 

[Application of the Doctrine of the Christian Helmet, alike to
those who have,

and to those who have it not.]

 

           Having
shown now what the helmet of salvation is, and several of its offices to the
Christian, we pro­ceed to bring out how its doctrine applies alike to those who
have, and to those who have it not, and the several points of improvement which
naturally flow from it.  These may
be classed as four.  First. A trial of what metal our
helmet of hope is made.  Second. An exhortation to those who,
upon trial, find it genu­ine, in which two duties are pressed on them.  Third.
Arguments why we should strengthen our hope, with directions how we may do
so.  Fourth. An exhorta­tion to those who want this helmet of hope.

 

 

 

FIRST POINT OF
IMPROVEMENT.

 

[Trial of what metal our helmet of hope

is
made.]

 

           For
trial, whether we have this helmet of hope on our heads or no—this
helmet, I say, commended to us in the text.  As for such paltry ware, that most are contended with for
cheapness’ sake, it, alas! de­serves not the name of a true hope, no more than
a paper cap doth of a helmet.  O,
look to the metal and temper of your helmet in an especial manner, for at this
most blows are made.  He that seeks
chiefly to defend his own head—the serpent I mean—will aim most to wound
yours.  None but fools and children
are so credulous as to be blown up with great hopes upon any light occasion and
slight ground.  They who are wise,
and have their wits about them, will be as wary as how they place their hopes,
especially for sal­vation, as a prudent pilot, that hath a rich lading, would
be where he moors his ship and casts his anchor.  There is reason for our utmost care herein, because nothing
exposeth men to more shame than to meet with disappointment in their
hopes.  ‘They were confounded
because they had hoped; they came thith­er and were ashamed,’ Job 6:20; that is,
to miss of what they hoped to have found in those brooks.  But there is no shame like to that
which  a false hope for eternal
salvation will put sinners to at last; some shall rise ‘to shame everlasting,’ Dan. 10.  They shall awake out of their graves,
and out of that fool’s paradise also, wherein their vain hopes had entertained
them all their lives, and see, instead of a heaven they expected, hell to be in
expectation of them, and gaping with full mouth for them.  If the servants of Eglon were so
ashamed after their waiting awhile at their prince’s door, from whom they
expected all their preferment, to find him, and their hopes with him, dead on
the floor, Judges
3:25;
O, whose heart then can think what a mixture of shame and horror shall meet in
their faces and hearts at the great day, who shall see all their hopes for
heaven hop headless, and leave them in the hands of tormenting devils to all
eternity!  Hannibal’s soldiers did
not so confidently divide the goldsmiths’ shops in Rome among themselves —which
yet they never took—as many presumptuous sinners do promise themselves heaven’s
bliss and happiness, who must instead thereof sit down with shame in hell,
except they can, before they die, show better ground for their hope than now
they are able to do.  O what will
those fond dreamers do in the day of the Lord’s anger, when they shall see the
whole world in a light flame round about them, and hear God —whose piercing
eyes will look them through and through—calling them forth before men and
angels to the scrutiny!  Will they
stand to their hope, and vouch it to the face of Christ, which now they bless
themselves so in?  Surely their
hearts will fail them for such an enterprise.  None then will speak so ill of them as their own consciences
shall do.  God will in that day use
their own tongues to accuse them, and set forth the folly of their ridiculous
hope to the confusion of their faces before all the world.  The prophet foretells a time when the
false prophets ‘shall be ashamed every one of his vision, when he hath
prophesied; neither shall they wear a rough garment to deceive, but he shall
say, I am no prophet, I am an husbandman,’ &c., Zech. 13:4, 5.

           Truly
the most notorious false prophet that the world hath, and deceives most, is
this vain hope which men take up for their salvation.  This proph­esies of peace, pardon, and heaven, to be the
portion of such as [it] never once entered into God's heart to make heirs
thereof.  But the day is coming,
and it hastens, wherein this false prophet shall be con­founded.  Then the hypocrite shall confess he
never had any hope for salvation but what was the idol of his own fancy’s
making; and the formalist shall throw off the garment of his profession by
which he de­ceived himself and others, and appear to himself and to all the
world in his naked colours.  It
behooves therefore everyone to be strict and curious in the search of his own
heart, to find what his hope is built upon.

           Now,
hope of the right make, is a rational well-grounded hope.  ‘Be ready always to give an answer to
every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you,’ I Peter 3:15. Alas! how
can they give an ans­wer to others, that have not any to give to their own
consciences to this question, ‘Why dost thou hope to be saved, O my soul?’  There is no Christian, be he never so
weak in grace, but hath some reason bot­tomed on the Scripture—for other I mean
not—for the hope he professeth.  Do
you think, yea, can you be so absurd as to think, your own bold presumption,
without any word of promise to build upon, can en­title your souls to the
inheritance in God’s kingdom? Should one come and say your house and land were
his, and show you no writing under your hand by which you did ever grant him a
right thereunto, but all he can say is, he dreamed the last night your house
and land were his, and therefore now he demands it; would you not think the man
mad, and had more to the bedlam than to your estate?  And yet there are many hope to be saved, that can give no
better reason than this comes to for the same, and such are all grossly
ignorant and profane sinners.  As
it is enough for a saint to end the trouble which his fears put him into, to
ask his soul why it is disquieted within him, would he but observe how little
reason his heart can give for the same; so [would it be enough] to dis­mount
the bold sinner from his prancing hopes, if he might be prevailed with to call
himself to an account, and thus to accost his soul sometimes, and resolve not
to stir without a satisfactory answer. 
‘In sober sadness tell me, O my soul! what reason findest thou in the
whole Bible, for thee to hope for salvation, what livest in ignorance of God,
or a trade of sin against God?’ 
Certainly he should find his soul as mute and speechless as the man
without the wedding garment was at Christ’s question.  This is the reason why men are such strangers to themselves,
and dare not enter into any discourse upon this subject with their own hearts,
because they know they should soon make an uproar in their consciences that
would not be stilled in haste. They cocker their false hearts as much as David
did his Adonijah, who in all his life never displeased him so much as to ask
him, ‘Why dost thou so?’  Nor they
their souls to the day of their death by asking them, ‘Soul, why hopest thou
so?’  Or if they have, it hath been
as Pilate, who asked Christ what was truth, John 18:38, but had no mind to stay for an
answer.

           May
be thou art an ignorant, soul, who knowest neither who Christ is, nor
what in Christ hope is to fasten its hold upon; but only with a blind surmise
thou hopest God will be better to thee than to damn thee at last.  But why thou thus hopest, thou canst
give no reason, nor I neither.  If
he will save thee as now thou art, he must make a new gospel for thy sake; for
in this Bible it damns thee without hope or help.  The gospel is ‘hid to them that are lost,’ II Cor. 4:3.  But if knowledge will do it, thou haply
canst show good store of that. 
This is the breast-work un­der which thou liest, and keepest off those
shot which are made at thee from the word, for those lusts which thou livest
and liest in as a beast in his dung, defiling thyself with them daily.  And is this all thou hast to prove thy
hopes for salvation for hopes true and solid? Indeed, many make no better use
of their knowledge of the Scripture, than thieves do of the knowledge they have
of the law of the land, who study it not that they mean to keep it, but to make
them more cunning to evade the charge of it when called in question by it.  So many acquaint themselves with the
word—especially those passages in it that display the mercy of God to sinners
at the greatest breadth—that with these they may stuff a pillow to lay their
wretch­ed heads on, when the cry of the abominations in which they live begins
to break their rest.  God deliver
you, my dear friends, from such a hope as this.  Sure­ly you mean to provide a better answer to give unto
Christ at the great day than this, why ye hope to be saved by him; do you
not?  Will thy knowledge, thinkest
thou, be as strong a plea for salvation, as thy sins which thou wallowest in,
against that knowledge, will be for thy damnation? If there be hope for such as
thee, then come Judas and Jezebel, yea devils, and all ye infernal spirits, and
strike in for this good com­pany for a part with them, for some of you can
plead more of this than any of them all.

           But
may be thou hast more yet to say for thyself than this comes to.  Thou art not only a knowing per­son but
a reformed also; the pollutions in which once thou layest, now thou hast
escaped; yea, thy reformation is embellished and set forth with a very gaudy
profession of religion, both which have gained thee a very high opinion in the
thoughts of all thy neigh­bours; so that if heaven might be carried by thy
hands, thou couldst haply have a testimonial for thy unblam­able and saint-like
behaviour among them; yet, let me tell thee, if thou meanest to be faithful to
thy own soul, thou must not rest in their charitable opinion of thee, nor judge
of thy hopes for heaven by what comes under their cognizance, to wit, the
behaviour of thy outward man—for further their eye and observation reacheth
not—but art to look inward to thy own bos­om, and inquire what spring thou
canst find thereto have been the cause of this change and new motion that hath
appeared in thy external conversation. 
This, and this alone, must decide the controversy, and bring thy
thoughts to an issue, what to judge of thy hope, whether spurious or
legitimate.  It is not a new face
that colours our outward behaviour, but a new principle that changeth the frame
of the heart within, will evince thy hope to be good and genuine. ‘Blessed be
the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant
mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope,’ I Peter 1:3.  The new birth entitles to a new hope.
If the soul be dead, the hope cannot be alive.  And the soul may be dead, and yet put into a very handsome
dress of external reformation and profession, as well as a dead body may be
clad with rich clothes.  A beggar’s
son got into the clothes of a rich man’s child, may as well hope to be heir to
the rich man's land, as thou, by an external reformation and profession, to be
God's heir in glory. The child's hopes are from his own father, not from a
stranger.  Now, while thou art in a
natural estate —though never so finished—old Adam is thy father; and what canst
thou hope from him who proved worse than nought, and left his poor posterity
noth­ing, except we should put a crazy mortal body, a sinful nature, and a
fearful expectation of death tem­poral and eternal from the wrathful hand of a
pro­voked God—which indeed he left all his children —into his inventory?  O sirs, how can you give way that any
sleep should fall upon your eyes, till you get into this relation to God!  Hannah was a woman of a bitter spirit
till she got a child from God; and hast not thou more reason to be so, till
thou canst get to be a child of God? 
Better a thousand times over that thou shouldst die childless than
fatherless; my meaning is, that thou shouldst leave no child to inherit thy
estate on earth, than to have no father to give thee an inher­itance in heaven
when thou art taken hence.

 

 

 

SECOND POINT OF
IMPROVEMENT.

 

[Exhortation to those who have

this
helmet of hope.]

 

           For
exhortation of you, believers, who upon trial are found to have this
helmet of hope.  Several duties
are to be pressed upon you as such. 
First. Be thankful for this
unspeakable gift.  Second. Live up to your hopes.

 

[Duties which possession of the

helmet of hope
involves.]

 

           First Duty.  Be thankful for this unspeakable gift.  I will not believe thou hast it if thy
heart be not abundantly let out in thankfulness for it.  Blessed Peter cannot speak of this but
in a doxology.  ‘Blessed be the God
and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which hath begotten us again unto a lively
hope,...to an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not
away,’ I
Peter 1:3, 4[2].  The usual proem to Paul’s epistles is
of this strain, Col.
1:5; Eph. 1:3.  Hast thou hope in heaven?  It is more than if thou hadst the whole
world in hand.  The greatest
monarch the earth hath will be glad, in a dying hour, to change his crown for
thy helmet.  His crown will not
procure him this helmet, but thy helmet will bring thee to a crown, when he
shall have none to wear—a crown, not of gold, but of glory, which once on shall
never be taken off, as his is sure to be. 
O remember, Christian, what but a while since thou wert—so far from
having any hope of heaven, that thou wert under a fearful expec­tation of hell
and damnation.  And are those
chains of guilt with which thy trembling conscience was weighed down unto
despair, taken off, and thy head lift up to look for such high preferment in
the celes­tial court of that God whose wrath thou hadst, by thy horrid
treasons, most justly incensed against thee? Certainly, of all the men in the
world, thou art deep­est in debt to the mercy of God.  If he will be thanked for a crust, he looks, sure, thou
shouldst give him more for a crown. 
If food and raiment, though coarse and mean—suppose but roots and
rags—be gratefully to be acknowledged; O with what ravishment of love and
thankfulness are you to think and speak of those rarities and robes with which
you hope to be fed and clad in this heavenly kingdom! especially if you cast
your eye aside, and behold those that were once your fellow-prisoners—in what a
sad and dismal condition they continue—while all this happiness has befallen
you!  It could not, sure, but
affect his heart into ad­miration of his prince's mercy and undeserved favour
to him, who is saved from the gibbet only by his gra­cious pardon, if, as he is
riding in a coach towards his prince's court—there to live in wealth and honour
—he should meet some of his fellow‑traitors on sleds, as they are dragging full
of shame and horror to exe­cution for the same treason in which they had as
deep a hand as any of them all. 
And dost thou not see, Christian, many of thy poor neighbours, with whom
haply thou hast had a partnership in sin, pinioned with impenitency and
unbelief, driving apace to hell and destruction, while thou, by the free
distinguishing mercy of God, art on thy way for heaven and glory? O down on thy
knees, and cry out, ‘Lord, why wilt thou show thyself to me, and not to
these?’  How easy had it been, and
righteous for God, to have directed the pardon to them, and the warrant for
damnation unto thee!  When thou
hast spent thy own breath and spir­its in praising God, thou hadst need beg a
collection of praises of all thy friends that have a heart to contribute to
such charitable work, that they would help thee in paying this debt; and get
all this, with what in heaven thou shalt disburse thyself to all eternity, in
better coin than can be expected from thee here—where thy soul is embased with
sinful mix­tures—it must be accounted rather an acknowledg­ment of what thou
owest to thy God, than any pay­ment of the least part of the debt.

           Second Duty.  Live up to thy hopes, Christian. Let there be a
decorum kept between thy principles and thy practices, thy hope of heaven and
walk on earth.  The eye should
direct the foot.  Thou lookest for
salvation; walk the same way thy eye looks.  This is so often pressed in the word, as shows both its ne­cessity
and difficulty.  Some times we are
stirred up to act ‘as becometh saints,’ Rom. 16:2; Eph. 5:3.  Sometimes ‘as becometh the gospel of
Christ,’ Php.
1:27.
Sometimes ‘as becometh those who profess godli­ness,’ I Tim. 2:10.  There is a JÎ BDXB@<—a decorum,
and comely behaviour, which, if a Christian doth not observe in his walking he
betrays his high calling and hopes unto scorn and contempt.  To look high, and to live low, O how
ridiculous it appears to all men! When a man is dressed on purpose to be
laughed at and made a jeering‑stock, they put on him some­thing of the king and
something of the beggar, that, by this patchery of mock‑majesty with sordid
baseness to­gether, he may appear the greater fool to all the company.  And certainly, if the devil might have
the dressing of a man, so as to cast the greatest shame and ignominy upon him,
yea, upon Christ and the profession of his gospel, he could not think of a read­ier
way than to persuade a wretch to pretend to high and glorious hopes of heaven,
and then to have noth­ing suitable to the high‑flown hopes in his conversa­tion,
but all base and unworthy of such royal claims. If ye should see one going into
the field with a helmet of brass on his head, but a wooden sword in one hand,
and a paper shield on the other, and the rest of his armour like to these, you
would expect he was not likely to hurt his enemies, except they should break
their sides with laughing at him. 
Such a goodly spec­tacle is the brag professor, who lifts up his head on
high with a bold expectation of salvation, but can show never a grace beside to
suit with the great hope he hath taken up; he may make the devil sport, but
never do him any great hurt, or himself good.

           Question.  But may be you will ask, How is the
Christian to live up to his hopes?

           Answer.  I answer, in general, he is to be
careful to do nothing in which he may not freely act his hope, and from the
promise expect that God will, for Christ’s sake, both approve the action, and
reward his person for it.  Ask thy
soul this question seriously before thou engagest in any work, ‘May I hope that
God will bid me good speed?  Can I
look for his countenance in it, and his blessing on it?’  It is very unworthy of a Christian to
do anything sneakingly, as if he were afraid God or his conscience should be
privy to his work.  ‘Whatsoever is
not of hope is sin, because it cannot be of faith.’  O how would this hedge in the Christian’s heart from all
by-paths!  Pos­sibly thou hast a
grudge against thy neighbour.  The
fire is kindled in thy heart, though it flames not presently out into bitter
words and angry behaviour; and thou art going to pray.  Ask now thy soul, wheth­er God will
accept that sacrifice which is kindled with such strange fire?  Yea, bid thy soul bethink herself how
thy hopes of pardoning and saving mercy from God can agree with thy wrathful
unforgiving spirit towards thy brother? 
Certainly, as the sun cannot well be seen through a disturbed air, so
neither can the eye of hope well see her object—heaven’s salva­tion—when the
soul is tumultuous and roiled with anger and unchristian passion.

           But,
to instance in some particulars wherein you must comport with your hopes of
salvation.

 

[Instances wherein the Christian

should live up to his
hopes.]

 

           First
Instance.  In your company.  Man is a so­ciable creature—made for
fellowship.  And what com­pany is
fit for thee to consort with, but those of the same breeding and hopes with
thyself?  The saints are a distinct
society from the world.  ‘Let ours
also learn to maintain good works,’ Titus 3:14.  ‘Ours,’ i.e. of our fellowship.  And it becomes them to seek their com­pany
among themselves.  That of Peter
and John is observable, ‘being let go, they went to their own com­pany,’ Acts 4:23.  When among the ungodly world they made
account they were not in their own company, and therefore stayed no longer than
needs must among them.  There were
enough surely in the land of Canaan with whom Abraham might have associ­ated;
but he knew they were not company for him to be linked to in any intimacy of
acquaintance, and therefore it is said of him, that ‘he sojourned in the land
of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and
Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise,’ Heb. 11:9.  We find him indeed confederate with Mamre, the Amorite, and
Eshcol, and Aner, his brethren, Gen. 14:13, which presup­poseth more than ordinary
acquaintance.  But these, in all
probability, were proselytes, and had, by Abraham’s godly persuasions,
renounced their idolatry, to worship with him the true God.  And we may the ra­ther be induced to
think so, because we find them so deeply engaged with Abraham in battle with
those idolatrous neighbour princes, which, had they them­selves been idolaters,
it is like they would not have done for a stranger, and him of a strange
religion also. We find how dearly some of the saints have paid for their
acquaintance with the wicked, as Jehoshaphat for his intimacy with Ahab, and
many others.  And if, knowing this,
we shall yet associate ourselves with such, we cannot in reason look to pay less
than they have done; yea, well, if we come off so cheap, because we have their
follies recorded to make us wiser.

           O
consider, Christian, whither thou art going in thy hopes!  Is it not to heaven? and do not men
seek for such company as go their way? 
And are the wicked of thy way? 
When heaven’s way and hell’s meet in one road, then, and not till then,
can that be. And if thy companion will not walk in heaven-way, what wilt thou
do that walkest with him?  It is to
be feared thou must comply too much in his way.  In a word, Christian, thy hope points to heaven; and is it
not one thing thou hopest for, when thou comest there, to be delivered from all
company with the wicked? and what thou then hopest for, doth thou not now pray
for?  Sure enough thou dost, if a
true saint. Whatever is the object of a saint’s hope is the subject of his
prayer.  As oft as thou sayest,
‘Thy kingdom come,’ thou prayest thus much.  And will hoping and praying to be delivered from them, stand
with throw­ing thyself upon them, and intimate familiarity with them?

           Second
Instance.  Then thou comportest
with thy hopes of salvation, when thou labourest to be as holy in thy
conversation as thou art high in thy expec­tation.  This the apostle urgeth from the
condescency of the thing: ‘What manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy
conversation and godliness; looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day
of God,’ II
Peter 3:11, 12.  Certainly it becomes such to be holy
even to admiration, who look for such a blessed day! We hope then to be like
the angels in glory, and therefore should, if possible, live now like angels in
holiness.  Every believing soul is
Christ’s spouse.  The day of
conversion is the day of espousals, wherein she is contracted and betrothed by
faith to Christ; and as such, lives in hope for the marriage-day, when he shall
come and fetch her home unto his Father’s house—as Isaac did Rebecca into his
mother’s tent —there to cohabit with him and live in his sweet em­braces of
love, world without end.  Now,
would the bride have her bridegroom find her, when he comes, in her fluttery
and vile raiment?  No, sure.  ‘Can a bride forget her attire?’ Jer. 2:32.  Was it ever known that a bride forgot
to have her wedding‑clothes made against the marriage‑day? or to put them on
when she looks for her bridegroom’s coming?  Holiness is the ‘raiment of needle-work,’ in which,
Christian, thou art to be ‘brought unto thy king and husband,’ Ps. 45:14.  Wherefore is the wedding-day put off so
long, but because this garment is so long a making?  When this is once wrought, and thou ready dressed, then that
joyful day comes: ‘The marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made
herself ready,’ Rev.
19:7.

           Thou
hast not, Christian, a weightier argument to knock down all temptations to sin,
nor a more honourable way to get the victory of them, than by setting thy hope
to grapple with them.  I confess it
is well when this enemy is worsted, what hand soever he falls by; though it be
the fear of hell that clubs it down in the lives of men, it is better than not
at all.  Yet I must tell you, that
as the Israelites’ state was poor and servile, when they were fain to borrow
the Philis­tines’ grindstone ‘to sharpen every man his axe and mattock,’ I Sam. 13:20, so it
speaks the Christian to be in no very good state as to his spiritual affairs
when he is fain to use the wicked man’s argument to keep him from sinning, and
nothing will set an edge upon his spirit to cut through temptation, but what
the un­circumcised world themselves use. 
Thou, Christian, art of a nobler spirit, and more refined temper than
these, I trow. And as we have a finer stone to sharpen a razor with that we use
for a butcher’s knife, so, certainly, a more spiritual and ingenuous argument
would become thee better, to make thee keen and sharp against sin, than what prevails
with the worst of men sometimes to forbear at least acting their wicked­ness.  Go thou, Christian, to thy hope, and
while the slavish sinner scares and terrifies himself from his lust with fire
and brimstone, do thou shame thyself out of all acquaintance with it from the
great and glorious things thou lookest for in heaven. Is it a sin of sensual
pleasure that assaults thy castle? 
Say then to thy soul, ‘Shall I play the beast on earth, that hope to be
such a glorious creature in heaven?’ 
Shall that head be found now in a Delilah’s lap, that ere long I hope to
be laid in Abraham’s bosom?  Can I
now yield to defile that body with lust and vomit, which is the gar­ment my
soul hopes to wear in heaven?  O
no! Avaunt, Satan!  I will have
nothing to do with thee, or anything that will make me unmeet for that blessed
place and holy state I wait for.

           Third
Instance.  Let thy hope of
heaven moder­ate thy affections to earth.  ‘Be sober, and hope,’ saith the apostle, I Peter 1:13.  You that look for so much in another
world, may very well be content with a little in this.  Nothing more unbecomes a heavenly hope
than an earthly heart.  You would
think it an un­seemly thing for some rich man, that hath a vast es­tate, among
the poor gleaners at harvest‑time, as busy to pick up the ears of corn that are
left in the field, as the most miserable beggar in the company.  O how all the world would cry shame of
such a sordid‑spirited man!  Well,
Christian, be not angry if I tell thee that thou dost a more shameful thing to
thyself by far; if thou, that pretendest to hope for heaven, beest as eager in
the pursuit of this world's trash as the poor carnal wretch is who expects no
portion but what God hath left him to pick up in the field of this world.
Certainly thy hope is either false, or at best very little. The higher that the
summer sun mounts above the horizon, the more force it bears both to clear and
also heat the air with his beams. 
And if thy hope of salva­tion were advanced to any ordinary pitch and
height in thy soul, it would scatter these inordinate desires after this world
with which now thou art choked up, and put thee into a greater heat of
affection after heaven, than now thou feelest to things below.

           I
remember Augustine, relating what sweet dis­course passed once between his
mother and himself concerning the joys of heaven, breaks forth into this
apostrophe, ‘Lord, thou knowest quàm viluit nobis in illo die hic mundus—how
vile and contemptible this sorry world was in our eye in that day when our
hearts were warmed with some sweet discourse of that bless­ed place.’  And I doubt not but every gracious
person finds the same by himself; the nearer to heaven he gets in his hopes,
the further he goes from earth in his desires. When he stands upon these
battlements of heaven, he can look down upon this dunghill world as a nigrum
nihil, a little dust‑heap next to nothing.  It is Scultetus’ observation, that though there are many
blemishes by which the eminent saints and servants of God recorded in Scripture
are set forth as instan­ces of human frailty, yet not one godly man in all the
Scripture is to be found, whose story is blotted with the charge of
covetousness.  If that hold true,
which, as yet, I am not able to disprove, we may wonder how it comes about that
it should, now‑a‑days, be called the professors’ sin, and become a common
charge laid by the profane upon those that pretend to heaven more than
themselves.  O woe to those
wretched men who, by their scandalous practices in this kind, put the coal into
wicked men’s hands, with which they now black the names of all the godly, as if
to be covetous were a necessary consequent of profession.

           Fourth
Instance.  Let thy hope of
heaven master thy fear of death. 
Why shouldst thou be afraid to die, who hopest to live by dying?  Is the apprentice afraid of the day
when his time comes out?—he that runs a race, of coming too soon to his
goal?—the pilot troubled when he sees his harbour?—or the betrothed virgin
grieved when the wedding‑day approacheth? Death is all this to thee.  When that comes, thy in­den­ture
expires, and thy jubilee is come. 
Thy race is run, and the crown won—sure to drop on thy head when thy
soul goes out of thy body.  Thy
voyage, how troublesome soever it was in the sailing, is now hap­pily finished,
and death doth but this friendly office for thee, to uncover and open the ark
of thy body, that it may safely land thy soul on the shore of eter­nity at thy
heavenly Father’s door—yea, in his sweet embraces, never to be put to sea
more.  In a word, thy husband is
come for thee, and knocks with death’s hand at thy door, to come forth unto
him, that he may perform his promise, which, in the day of thy be­trothing, he
made to thee; and thou lovest him but little, if thou beest not willing to be
at the trouble of a remove hence, for to enjoy his blissful presence, in his
Father’s royal palace of heaven, where such prep­aration is made for thy
entertainment, that thou canst not know here, though an angel were sent on
purpose to inform thee.

           O
what tongue can express that felicity which infinite mercy bespeaks, infinite
wisdom deviseth, in­finite merit purchaseth, and infinite power makes
ready!  I have read that the Turks
say, ‘They do not think we Christians believe heaven to be such a glori­ous
place as we profess and talk of; for if we did, we would not be so afraid to go
thither, as we see many that profess themselves Christians to be.’  It cannot be denied, but all inordinate
fears of death betray great unbelief and little hope.  We do not look upon death under a right notion, and so we
start at it; which, were we by faith but able to see through, and assure
ourselves it comes to do us a good turn, we should feel as comfortably on the
thoughts of it, as now we are scared at the apparition of it.  The horse eats that hay in the rack,
which he is afraid of when a little lies at a distance on the road; because
there he knows it, but on the way he doth not.  Christian, un­derstand aright what message death brings to
thee, and the fear of it will be over. 
It snatcheth thee in­deed from this world's enjoyments, but it leads
thee to the felicities of another incomparably better.  And who, at a feast, will chide the
servant that takes away the first course, of which enough is eaten, to make
room for the second to be set on, that consists of far greater delicacies?

           Fifth
Instance.  Then thou comportest
with thy hope when thou livest in the joy of thy hope.  A sad uncheerful heart does not become
a lively hope.  Let him follow his
master with a heavy countenance, that looks to get nothing by his service.  Thou art out of this fear, and
therefore wrongest both thyself and thy God too by thy disconsolate spirit.
‘Whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the
hope firm unto the end,’ Heb.
3:6.  Christ takes no more delight to dwell
in a sad uncheerful heart, than we in a dark melancholy house.  Open thy shuts therefore, and let in
the light which sheds its beams upon thee from the promise, or else thy sweet
Saviour will be gone.  We do not
use to entertain our friends in a dark room, or sit by those that visit us,
mopish and melancholic, lest they should think we are weary of their
company.  Christ brings such good
news with him, as may bespeak better welcome with thee than a dejected
countenance and a disconsolate spirit. 
I tell thee, Christian, could such a message be carried to the damned as
might give them any hope—though never so little—of salvation, it would make
hell itself a lightsome place, and tune those miserable souls into a rejoicing
temper in the midst of their present tor­ments.  Blush then, and be ashamed, O ye drooping saints! that a few
thin clouds of some short afflictions, coming over your heads, should so wrap
you up in the darkness of your spirits, as that the hope of heaven, whither you
look at last to come, should not be able, in a moment, to dispel and turn your
sorrow into a ravishment of joy and comfort.

           Sixth
Instance.  Thou livest up to
thy hopes when, with thy rejoicing of hope, thou preservest an awful fear of
God.  ‘The Lord taketh pleasure
in them that fear him, in those that hope in his mercy,’ Ps. 147:11.  We too often see that children forget
to pay that respect and reverence which is due to their par­ents, when once the
estate is made sure into them. And truly, though the doctrine of assurance
cannot be charged with any such bitter fruit to grow naturally from it, as the
Remonstrants and Papists would have us believe; yet we are too prone to abuse
it; yea, the best of saints may, after they have the love of God with eternal
life passed over to them under the privy-seal of hope’s assurance, be led so
far into tempta­tion, as to fall foully, and carry themselves very undu­tifully.  Witness David and Solomon, whose
saddest miscarriages were after God had obliged them by opening his very heart
to them in such manifestations of his love to them, as few are to be found that
had the like.  Both father and son
are checked by God for this, and a blot left upon their history, on purpose to
show what a sad accent this gave to their sin—that they fell after such
discoveries of divine love made to them—and also to leave us instances not
barely of human frailty, but of grace’s frailty in this life (and that in the
most eminent saints, such as were penmen of holy writ), that when our hope
grows into greatest assurance, and this assurance spreads itself into high­est
rejoicing from the certainty of our expected glory, we should yet nourish a
holy fear of God in our hearts, lest we grow crank[3] and forget
God in the abundance of our peace. 
This holy fear will be to our joy as the continual dropping of water on
the iron work in the fuller’s wheel—which keeps it from firing; or, as the
pericardium with which the God of nature hath moated about the heart in our
bodies, that by the water of it, the heart, which is perpetually in motion,
might be kept from being inflamed into a distempered heat.

           The
devil is pleased if he can at any time get a saint to sin, but he glorieth most
when he can lay them in the dirt in their holiday clothes, as I may so say, and
make them defile themselves when they have their garments of salvation on, I
mean those which God hath in some more than ordinary discovery of himself
clothed them withal.  If at such a
time he can be too hard for them, then he hath, he thinks, a fair occasion
given him to go, and insultingly show God what pickle his child is in, and hold
up the Christian’s assurance and comfort mockingly—as they their brother’s coat
to their father—besmeared with the blood and filth of some beastly sin he hath
thrown him into, and ask God, ‘Is this the assurance thou hast given him of
heaven? and this the garment of sal­vation which thou didst put on him?  See where he hath laid it, and what a
case he hath made it in.’  O what
gracious soul trembles not at the thought of putting such blasphemy into the
mouth of the devil to reproach the living God by! That, Christian, is the be­loved
child, and shall be most made of by his heav­enly Father, who sits not down to
loiter in the sun­shine of divine love, but gathers up his feet the nimb­ler in
the way of duty, because his God is so kind to make his walk more cheerful and
comfortable than others find it, and who loseth not his reverential fear of God
in God’s familiarity with him. 
Moses is a rare instance for this. 
Did ever the great God treat a mor­tal man, a saint in flesh, with the
like familiarity and condescension, as he did that holy man, with whom he spake
mouth to mouth, and before whom he caused all his goodness to pass? Ex. 34:6.  And how bears he this transcending act
of grace?  Doth he grow bold, and
forget his distance between God and him, by this low stoop of the divine
Majesty to converse with him in such a humble manner, if I may so say? No; his
heart was never in all his life more filled with the reverence of God than
now.  He trembled, in­deed, and
quaked more, it is very likely, on Mount Sinai; but his filial fear was as
conspicuous now as then.  It is
true, this extraordinary manifestation of those soul-ravishing attributes of
God’s love and goodness—especially his pardoning mercy to him that knew himself
a sinner, and at that time made much more sensible thereof by the terror which
the dreadful promulgation of the law had left on his spirit—could not but
exceedingly heighten his joy, and overrun his soul with a sweet love to so
gracious a God.  Yet, was not
Moses' awful fear of God drowned or lost in the high tide of these sweeter
affections; for it follows, ‘and Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward
the earth, and worshipped,’ ver. 8. 
This favourite of heaven, mark how he shows his fear of God most, when
God expresseth his love to him most.

 

 

 

THIRD POINT OF
IMPROVEMENT.

 

[Arguments why we
should
strengthen

our
hope, with
directions how.]

 

           Labour,
O ye saints! to strengthen your hope. There is, as a weak faith, so a
wavering unsteadfast hope.  This
you are by the diligent use of all means to establish and consolidate.  Now, then, hope is firm and solid when
the Christian doth not fluctuate formidine opposti—with the fear of
being opposed, but, by this anchor‑hold that hope hath on the prom­ise, is kept
from those dejections and tumultuous fears with which they that have no hope
are swallowed up, and they whose hope is but weak are sadly dis­composed and
shaken.  Solidum est quod sui
solius est plenum—that is a solid body which is compact and free from
heterogeneal mixtures.  The more
pure gold is from dross, and whatever is of a different na­ture to itself, the
more solid it is.  So hope, the
more it is refined from groundless presumption on the one hand, or slavish fear
and distrust on the other, the more solid and strong it is.  This in Scripture is called ‘the
assurance of hope.’  Now to provoke
you to a holy zeal in your endeavour after this, consider, First. It is thy duty so to do.  Second.
If thou do not thou wilt show thou little esteemest Christ and his
salvation.  Third. Thou knowest not what stress thy hope may be put to
before thou diest.

 

[Arguments why we should strengthen
our hope.]

 

           First Argument.  Consider it is thy duty so to do.  Indeed by the Papist’s doctrine, no man
is bound to labour for such an assurance. 
But whether we should believe God or them, judge ye.  What saith the Spirit of God, ‘We
desire that every one of you do shew the same diligence to the full assurance
of hope unto the end: that ye be not slothful, but followers of them who
through faith and patience inherit the promises.’  Observe,

           First.  The thing he exhorts to endeavour
for, BDÎH J¬< B80D@N@D\"< J0H ²8B\*@H –PD4 JX8@LH —‘to the
full assurance of hope.’  They
whose hope is weak sail with but a scant side-wind.  The apostle would have them go before the wind, and be
carried with a full gale to heaven, which then is done when the soul, like a
sail spread to the wind, is so filled with the truth and goodness of the
promise, that it swells into an assured hope of what is promised, and rejoiceth
in a certain expectation of what it shall have when it comes to the shore of
eternity, though it be now tossed and weather-beaten with a thousand
temptations and trials in its passage thither.

           Second.  Observe whom he presseth this duty
upon; not some few choice Christians, as an enter­prise laid out for them
above the rest of their fellow-soldiers, but every person that will prove
himself a Christian.  ‘We
desire that every one of you do show the same diligence,’ &c.  In our civil trade, and partic­ular
worldly calling, it were sinful for every poor man to propound such a vast
estate to himself in his own desires as he sees some few—the wealthiest mer­chants
in a city—have got by their trade, so as no less shall content him.  But in the spiritual trade of a
Christian it is very warrantable for every Christian to covet to be as rich in
grace as the best.  Paul himself
will not think himself wronged if thou desirest to be as holy  man as himself was, and labourest after
as strong a faith and steadfast a hope as he had; yea, thou oughtest not to
content thyself with what thou hast, if there were but one degree of grace more
to be had than what at present thou hast obtained.  And,

           Third.  Observe what he imputes the weakness
of the saints’ grace to; not an impossibility of attain­ing to more, but their
sloth and laziness.  And there­fore
he opposeth this to that blessed frame of heart he so much wisheth them, ‘That
ye be not slothful,’ Heb.
6:12.  Indeed it is the diligent hand makes
rich; as in this world’s goods, so in this heavenly treasure also.

           Second Argument.  Labour to strengthen thy hope of
salvation, or thou wilt show thou little es­teemest Christ and his
salvation.  As we prize any
good, so we labour more or less to assure ourselves of it.  If a prince should lose a pin from his
sleeve, or a penny out of his purse, and one should bring him news they are
found; the things are so inconsiderable that he would not care whether it were
true or not. But if his kingdom lay at stake in the field, and intel­ligence
comes that his army hath got the day and beat the enemy, O how he would long to
have his hope, that is now raised a little, confirmed more strongly by another
post!  Is heaven worth so little
that you can be satisfied with a few probabilities and uncertain maybees you
shall come thither?  Thou basely
despis­eth that blessed place if thou beest no more solicitous to know the
truth of thy title to it.  When
Micaiah seemed to give Ahab—now advancing his army against Ramoth-gilead—some
hope of a victory, by bidding him ‘go up and prosper,’ the thing being pas­sionately
desired by the king, he fears the worst—as indeed he had reason, for the
prophet's speech was ironical—and therefore cannot rest till he know more of
this matter.  ‘And the king said
unto him, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou tell me noth­ing but
that which is true in the name of the Lord?’ I Kings 22:16.

           Maybe
thou hast some loose wavering hopes of heaven floating in thy soul.  If now, thou didst think thy eternal
woe lay in the truth or falsehood of that hope, certainly thou wouldst search
thy heart by the word, and adjure thy conscience after an impartial review to
tell thee the naked truth, what thy state is, and whether thou mayest in God’s
name, and with the leave of his word, hope it shall be thy portion or not; and
this thou wouldst do, not hypocritically, as that wretched king did—who adjured
Micaiah to tell him the truth, and then would not believe him though he did it
faithfully—but with great plainness of heart; it being about a business of no
less importance than what shall become of thee to eternity.  Peter, when surprised with the tidings
of Christ’s resurrection, though the report did not find such credit with him
as it might, yet, by his speedy running to, and looking into, the sepulchre, he
showed both how dearly he loved his Lord, as also how joyful a man he should
be, if the news held true that he was alive.  Thus, Chris­tian, though the promise of eternal life hath
not hitherto produced such an assurance of hope that thou art the person that
shalt undoubtedly enjoy it, yet show what appreciating thoughts thou hast of
that blissful state, by endeavouring to strengthen thy hope and put thee out of
doubt thereof.

           Third Argument.  Consider this also in the last place, that
thou knowest not what stress thy hope may be put to before thou diest.  The wise mariner doth victual his ship
for the longest day.  He reckons on
foul weather and cross winds which may retard his voyage, and make it more
troublesome, though some find it a shorter cut and fairer passage, and
therefore he stores himself accordingly, knowing well it is easier carrying
provision to sea than getting it there. 
Non facilè inveniuntur in adversitate præsidia, quænon fuerint in
pace quæsita—protection is not readily found in adversity, which has not
been sought out in time of peace—a good speech of Austin.  God himself tells us we have ‘need of
patience;’ he means great store of patience, ‘that after we have done the will
of God, we may receive the promise,’ Heb. 10:36.  And if of patience, then of hope; because patience bears all
on hope’s back.  Now, because we
know not the cer­tain degree of hope that will serve our turn—God having
purposely concealed the weight of affliction and temptation he intends to lay
on us—therefore we should never cease our endeavour to strengthen it. There are
hard duties to be performed, and strong trials to be endured, and these require
a hope propor­tionable.  We are to
‘hold fast...the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end,’ Heb. 3:6.  Now, will the Christian of weak hope do
this?  He, alas! is like a leaky ship
with a rich lading; the fear of sinking be­fore she gets the port takes away
the owner’s joy of the treasure she carries.  Bid such a one rejoice in his inheritance that is laid up in
heaven for him, and he will tell you he questions whether ever he shall come
there. Patient waiting for mercy prorogued and defer­red is another hard duty,
‘It is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation of
the Lord,’ Lam.
3:26.  Now weak hope is short-breathed, and
cannot stay long with any quietness. Omne invalidum est querulum—weak
persons are commonly hardest to please; soon peevish and fro­ward if they have
not what they would, and that when they desire it also.

           When
David’s faith and hope were under a dis­temper, then he falls out with all.  The prophet him­self that brought him
the news of a kingdom cannot escape his censure, and all because the promise
stayed longer before it was delivered than he expected —‘I said in my haste,
All men are liars,’ Ps.
116:11
—whereas the promise went not a day beyond its due time, but he missed of its
true reckoning through his inordinate desire.  But take David in his healthful temper—when his faith and
hope are strong—and he is not so hasty then to call for a mercy out of God’s
hands; but thinks his estate in God’s hands as safe as if it were paid into his
own.  ‘Praise waiteth for thee, O
God,’ or, ‘praise is silent for thee,’ so the Hebrew, %-%( %*/$ (dumiyah
thehillah), will bear it, Ps. 65:1. As if the holy man had said, ‘Lord, I do
quietly wait for a time to praise thee. 
My soul is not in an uproar because thou stayest.  I am not murmuring, but rather
stringing my harp, and tuning my instrument with much patience and confidence,
that I may be ready to strike up when the joyful news of my deliverance first
comes.’  You have much ado to make
the child quiet till dinner, though he sees preparations for a great feast; but
one that is grown up will be soon pacified when he is kept a little longer than
ordinary for his meal upon such an occasion.  O Christian, it is our childishness and weakness of
grace—especially of our hope—that makes us so soon out of patience to wait
God’s leisure.  Strengthen hope,
and patience will grow with it.

           In
a word, Christian, thou hast great trials and strong temptations to conquer
before you enter heav­en gates and be clothed with your garments of salva­tion
there.  Now defend thy hope, and
that will de­fend thee in these; strengthen that, and that will carry thee
through them.  The head, every
member is offi­cious to preserve it. 
The hands are lift up to keep off the blow, the feet run to carry the
head from danger, the mouth will receive any unsavoury pill to draw fumes and
humours from the head.  Salvation
is to the soul what the head is to the body—the principal thing it should
labour to secure; and hope is to our salvation what the helmet is to the head.
Now if he be unwise that ventures his head under a weak helmet in the midst of
bullets at the time of battle, then much more unwise he that hazards his
salvation with a weak hope. Know, O Christian, the issue of the battle with thy
enemy depends on thy hope; if that fail all is lost. Thy hope is in conflicts
with temptations and suffer­ings, as a prince is amidst his army, who puts life
into them all while he looks on and encourageth them to the battle, but if a
report of the king’s being slain comes to their ears, their courage fails and
hearts faint.  Therefore Ahab would
be held up in his chariot to conceal his danger from the people, the knowledge
of which would have cast a damp on their courage.

           Thy
hope is the mark Satan’s arrows are leveled at.  If possible keep that from wounding.  Or if at any time his dart reacheth it,
and thy spirit begins to bleed of the wound which he hath given thee by ques­tioning
‘Whether such great sins can be pardoned as thou hast committed? such old
festered sores as thy lusts have been can be ever cured? or afflictions that
are so heavy and have continued so long can possibly be either endured or
removed?’  Now labour, as for thy
life, to hold up thy hope though wounded in the chariot of the promise, and bow
not by despairing to let the devil trample on thy soul.  So soon as thy hope gives up the ghost
will this cursed fiend stamp thee under his foul feet, and take his full
revenge of thee, and that without any power of thy soul to strike a stroke for
thy defence.  This will so dispirit
thee that thou wilt be ready to throw up all endeavour and at­tendance on the
means of salvation; yea, desperately say, ‘To what purpose is it to think of
praying, hear­ing, and meditating, when there is no hope?’  What! should we send for the physician
when our friend is dead?  What good
will the chafing and rubbing the body do when the head is severed from it?  The army broke up, and every one was
sent to his city, as soon as it was known that Ahab was dead.  And so wilt thou cast off all thought
of making any head against sin and Satan when thy hope is gone, but fall either
into Judas’ horror of conscience, or with Cain, turn atheist, and bury the
thoughts of thy desperate con­dition in a heap of worldly projects.

           I
come now to give a few words of counsel, how a Christian may best strengthen
his hope.  Take them in these six
particulars following.  1. If thou
meanest thy hope of salvation should rise to any strength and solidness, study
the word of God diligently.  2.
Keep thy conscience pure.  3.
Resort to God daily, and beg a stronger hope of him.  4. Labour to increase your love.  5. Be much in the exercise of your hope.  6. File up thy experiences of past mercies,
and thy hope will grow stronger for the future.

 

[Six directions how we may strengthen
our hope.]

 

           First
Direction.  If thou meanest thy
hope of salvation should rise to any strength and solidness, study the word
of God diligently.  The
Christian is bred by the word, and he must be fed by it also, or else his grace
will die.  That is the growing
child that lies libbing oftenest at the breast.  Now as God hath provided food in his word to nourish every
grace, so in the composition of the Scriptures he had a particu­lar respect to
the welfare and growth of the saint’s hope, as one principal end of their
writing.  ‘That we through patience
and comfort of the scriptures might have hope,’ Rom. 15:4.  The devil knows this so well, that his great labour is spent
to deprive the Christian of the help which the word is stored with; and indeed
therein he is not mistaken, for so long as this river is unblocked up which
makes glad the City of God, with the succours which are brought in to them on
the stream of its precious promises, he can never besiege them round or put
them to any great straits.  Some,
therefore, he deprives of their relief by mere sloth and laziness.  They make a few fruitless complaints of
their doubts and fears, like sluggards crying out of their wants and poverty as
they lie in bed, but are loath to rise and take any pains to be resolved of
them by searching of the word for their satisfaction; and these sell their
comfort of all others the cheapest. Who will pity him, though he should starve
to death, that hath bread before him, but loath to put his hand out of his
bosom to carry it to his mouth! 
Others he abuseth by false applications of the word to their souls,
partly through their weak understandings, and troubled spirits also, which discolour
the truths of God and misrepresent them to their judgments, whereby they come
to be beaten with their own staff —even those promises which a skilful hand
would knock down Satan’s temptations withal.  The devil is a great student in divinity, and makes no other
use of his Scripture-knowledge than may serve his turn by sophistry to do the
Christian a mischief, either by drawing him to sin, or into despair for
sinning; like some wrangling barrister, who gets what skill he can in the law
merely to make him the more able to put honest men to trouble by his vexatious
suit.  Well, if Satan be so
conversant in the word to weaken thy hope, and deprive thee of thy inheritance,
what rea­son hast thou then to furnish thyself with a holy skill to maintain
thy right and defend thy hope? 
Now, in thy study of the word, propound these two ends, and
closely pursue them till thou hast obtained them.

           1.
End.  Labour to clear up thy
understanding from the word, what are the conditions required by God of
every soul that hath his grant and warrant to hope assuredly for life and
salvation in the other world. 
Some conditions there are required to be found in all such is without
all doubt, or else it were free for all, be they what they will, and live how
they list, actually to lay claim to a right in heaven and sal­vation.  If God had set no bounds at Sinai, and
said nothing who should come up the mount, and who not, it had been no more
presumption in any of the company to have gone up than in Moses; and if God
requires no conditions in the person that is to hope, then heaven is a common
for one as well as other to crowd into; then the beastly sinner may touch God’s
holy mount as well as the saint, and fear no stoning for his bold adventure.  But this sure is too fulsome doctrine
for any judicious conscience to digest. 
Well, having satisfied thyself that if ever thou hast true hope thou
must also have the conditions, inquire what they are.  Now the word holds forth two sorts of conditions according
to the two different covenants.

           (1.)  There is a covenant of nature,
or law-covenant, which God made with innocent Adam; and the condition of this
was perfect obedience of the per­son that claimed happiness by it.  This is not the con­dition now
required; and he that stands groping in at this door in hope to enter into life
by it, shall not only find it nailed up and no entrance that way to be had, but
he also deprives himself of any benefit of the true door which stands open, and
by which all pass that get thither. 
‘Whosoever of you are justified by the law; ye are fallen from grace,’ Gal. 5:4.  You must therefore inquire what
the other covenant is; and that is,

           (2.)
A covenant of grace, as that other was of na­ture; of reconciliation to
make God and man friends, as that was a covenant to preserve those friends who
had never fallen out.

           Now
the condition of this covenant is, repen­tance and faith.  See for this Luke 24:47; John 3:36; Acts
2:38; 5:31; 20:21; Gal. 5:5. 
Labour therefore to give a firm as­sent to the truth of these promises,
and hold it as an indisputable and inviolable principle, that ‘whoever
sincerely repents of his sins, and with a ‘faith un­feigned’ receiveth Christ
to be his Lord and Saviour, this is the person that hath the word and oath of a
God that cannot possibly lie, for the pardon of his sins and the salvation of
his soul.’  What service a strong
assent to this will do thee towards exerting thy hope thou wilt by and by
see.  It is the very basis
thereof.  The weight of the
Christian’s whole building bears so much on it that the Spirit of God, when he
speaks in Scripture of evangelical truths and prom­ises, on which poor sinners
must build their hopes for salvation, doth it with the greatest averment of any
other truths, and usually adds some circumstance or other that may put us out
of all doubt concerning the certainty and unalterableness of them.  ‘Surely he hath borne our griefs,’ Isa. 53:4.  There is no question to be made of it;
but it was our potion he drank, our debt he paid.  What end could he have besides this in so great
sufferings?  Was it to give us a
pattern of pa­tience how we should suffer?  This is true, but not all; for some of our fellow-saints
have been admirable instances of this. 
‘He carried our sorrows,’ and ‘was wounded for our transgressions.’  This, this was the great business
worthy of the Son of God's undertak­ing, which none of our fellow-saints could
do for us. So, ‘This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all accep­tation, that
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners,’ I Tim. 1:15. As if he
had said, ‘Fear no cheat or imposture here; it is as true as truth itself; for
such is he that said it.’  If you
believe not this you are worse than a devil.  He cannot shut this truth out of his conscience, though the
unwelcomest that ever came to his knowledge.  ‘If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive
us our sins,’ I
John 1:9.
What can the poor penitent fear when that attribute is become his friend that
first made God angry with him. 
Yea, so fast a friend as to stand bound for the performance of the
promise, which even now was so deeply engaged to execute the threatening on
him? ‘Wherein God, willing more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of promise
the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath,’ Heb. 6:17.  What security could we have asked more
of a deceitful man, than the faithful God of his own accord gives?  The Ro­mans did not give their
magistrates oaths—supposing the dignity and honour of their persons and place
were bond strong enough to make them true and righ­teous.  Surely then God's word would have
deserved credit, though it had not an oath to be its surety, yet God
condescends to this, that he may sink the truth of what he saith deeper into
our minds, and leave the print fairer and fuller in our assents to the same
when set on with the weight of asseverations[4] and oaths.

           2.
End.  Having found what is
the condition of the covenant, rest not satisfied till thou findest this
condition to be wrought in thy own soul, and art able to say thou art this
repenting and believing sinner. 
A strong hope results from the clear evidence it hath for both
these.  We read in Scripture of a
threefold assurance.  (1.) An
assurance of understanding, Col. 2:2.  (2.) An assurance of faith, Heb. 10:22.  (3.) An assurance of hope, Heb. 6:11.  And it is a good note which an acute
doctor of our own hath upon them, ‘That these three make up one practical
syllogism; wherein knowledge forms the proposition, faith makes the assumption,
and hope draws the conclu­sion’ (D. A. Tac. Sa. p. 126).  ‘I do,’ saith the Christian, ‘assuredly know from the word,
that the repenting believing sinner shall be saved; my conscience also tells me
that I do unfeignedly repent and believe; therefore I do hope firmly that I
shall, however un­worthy otherwise, be saved.’  Now we know there can be no more in the conclusion than is
in the premises; so that, as the force is, which the Christian puts forth in
his assent to the truth of the promise, and the evi­dence which he hath, that
the condition of the prom­ise—viz. faith and repentance—is wrought in his soul,
so will his hope be, weak or strong. 
Indeed it can be no otherwise. 
If his assent to the truth of the promise be weak, or his evidence for
the truth of his faith and repentance be dark and uncertain, his hope that is
born—as I may so say—of these, must needs partake of its parent’s infirmities,
and be itself weak and wavering, as they are from that which it results.

           Second
Direction.  Wouldst thou have
thy hope strong? then, keep thy conscience pure.  Thou canst not defile this, but thou
wilt weaken that, ‘Living godly in this present world,’ and ‘looking for that
blessed hope’ laid up for us in the other, are both conjoined, Titus 2:12, 13.  A soul wholly void of godli­ness needs
be as destitute of all true hope, and the godly person that is loose and
careless in his holy walking, will soon find his hope languishing.  All sin is aguish meat; it disposeth
the soul that tampers with it to trembling fears and shakings of heart.  But such sins as are deliberately
committed and plotted, they are to the Christian's hope as poison to the
spirits of his body, which presently drinks them up.  They, in a manner, exanimate the Christian.  They make the thoughts of God terrible
to the soul; which, when he is in a holy frame, are his greatest joy and
solace.  ‘I remembered God, and was
troubled,’ Ps.
77:3.  They make him afraid to look on God in
a duty, much more to look for God in the day of judgment.  Can the servant be willing his master
should come home when he is in his riot and excess?  Mr. Calvin, when some wished him to forbear some of his
labours, es­pecially his night studies, asked those his friends, ‘whether they
would have his Lord find him idle when He came?’  O, God forbid! 
Christian, that death should find thee wanton and negligent in thy
walking; that he should surprise thee lying in the puddle of some sin
unrepented of!  This would be a sad
meet­ing!  O how loath wouldst thou
then be to die, and go to the great audit where thou must give up thy ac­counts
for eternity!  Will thy hope then
be in case to carry thee up with joy to that solemn work? Can a bird fly when
one of her wings is broke?  Faith
and a good conscience are hope's two wings.  If, therefore, thou hast wounded thy conscience by any sin,
renew thy repentance, that so thou mayest act faith for the pardon of it, and,
acting faith, mayest redeem thy hope, when the mortgage that is now upon it
shall be taken off.  If a Jew had
pawned his bed‑clothes, God provided mercifully, it should be restored before
night: ‘For,’ saith he, ‘that is his covering, wherein shall he sleep?’ Ex. 22:27.  Truly, hope is the saint’s covering,
wherein he wraps himself when he lays his body down to sleep in the grave.   ‘My flesh,’ saith David, ‘shall
rest in hope,’ Ps.
16:9.  O Christian! bestir thyself to redeem
thy hope before this sun of thy temporal life go down upon thee, or else thou
art sure to lie down in sorrow.  A
sad going to the bed of the grave he hath, that hath no hope of a resurrection
to life.

           Third
Direction.  Resort to God daily,
and beg a stronger hope of him. 
That is the way the apostle took to help the saints at Rome to more of
this pre­cious grace.  ‘Now the God
of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in
hope, through the power of the Holy Ghost,’ Rom. 15:13.  God, you see, is the God of hope; and not only of the first
seed and habit, but of the whole increment and abounding of it in us also.  He doth not give a saint the first
grace of conversion, and then leave the improvement of it wholly to his skill
and care; as sometimes a child hath a stock at first to set up, and never hath
more help from his father, but, by his own good husbandry, advanceth his little
beginnings into a great estate at last; but rather as the corn in the field,
that needs the influences of heaven to flower and ripen for harvest, as much as
to quicken in the clods when first thrown in.  And therefore, be sure thou humbly acknowledgest God by a
constant wait­ing on him for growth. 
‘The young lions,’ are said to, ‘seek their meat from God,’ Ps. 104:21.  That is, God hath taught them, when
hungry, to express their wants by crying and lifting up their voice, which, did
they know God to be their Maker, they would direct to him for supply; as we see
the little babe that at first only expresseth its wants by crying, doth, so
soon as it knows the mother, directs his moan to her.  Thou knowest, Christian, that thou art at thy heavenly Fa­ther’s
finding.  He knows indeed what thou
wantest, but he stays his supplies till thou criest, and this will make him
draw forth his breast presently. 
Doth God take care for the beasts in the field?  Surely then much more will he for thee
his child in his house, and for thy soul above all.  Thou mayest possibly pray for more riches, and be denied;
but a prayer for more grace is sure to speed.

           Fourth
Direction.  If you would
strengthen your hope, labour to increase your love.  There is a secret, yet powerful,
influence that love hath on hope. 
Mo­ses, we will easily grant, greatly befriended the Israel­ite, when he
slew the Egyptian that fought with him. Love kills slavish fear—one of the
worst enemies hope hath in the Christian’s heart—and thereby strengthens hope’s
hand.  He that plucks up the weeds
helps the corn to grow, and he that purges out the disease makes way for
nature’s strengthening.  It is
slavish fear oppresseth the Christian’s spirit that he cannot act hope
strongly.  Now, ‘love casteth out
fear,’ I
John 4:18.  The free‑woman will cast out the
bond-woman.  Slavish fear is one of
Hagar’s breed —an affection that keeps all in bondage that hath it. This love
cannot brook.  ‘Shall I,’ saith the
loving soul, ‘fear he will hurt me, or be hard to me, that loves me, and I him
so dearly?  Away, unworthy
thoughts, here is no room for such company as you are in my bosom.’  ‘Love thinketh no evil,’ I Cor. 13:5. That is,
it neither wisheth evil to, nor suspects evil of, another.  The more thou lovest Christ, the less
thou wilt be jealous of him; and the less jealous thou art of him, the more
strongly thou wilt hope in him, and comfortably wait for him. Hence, these two
graces are so often mated in Scripture. 
‘The Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, and into the patient
waiting for Christ,’ II
Thes. 3:5.  Love him, and you will wait for
him.  So, ‘keep yourselves in the
love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life,’
Jude 21.

           Fifth
Direction.  Be much in the exercise
of your hope.  Repeated acts
strengthen habits.  Thus the little
waddling child comes to go strongly by going often.  You have no more money in your chest at the year’s end than
when you laid it there; nay, it is well if rust or thieves have not made it
less.  But you have more by trading
with it than your first stock amoun­ted unto.  ‘Thou oughtest to have put my money to the exchangers, and
then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury,’ said Christ to
the ‘slothful servant,’ Matt.
25:27.  Now the promises are hope’s object to
act upon.  A man can as well live
without air, as faith and hope without a promise; yea, without frequent sucking
in the refreshment of the promises. 
And, therefore, be much in meditation of them; set some time apart for
the purpose.  You that love your
healths, do not content yourselves with the air that comes to you as you sit at
work in your house or shop, but you will walk out into the fields some­times,
to take the air more fresh and full. 
And if thou beest a wise Christian, thou wilt not satisfy thyself with
the short converse thou hast by the by with the promises, as now and then they
come into thy mind in thy calling, and when thou art about other employ­ments,
but wilt walk aside on purpose to enjoy a more fixed and solitary meditation of
them.  This were of admirable use;
especially if the Christian hath skill to sort the promises, and lay aside the
provision made in them suitable to his case in particular.

           Sometimes
the Christian is at a stand when he remembers his past sins, and his hope is
quite dashed out of countenance while they stare on his conscience with their
grim looks.  Now it were excellent
for the Christian to pick out a promise where he may see this objection
answered and hope triumphing over it. This was David’s very case, Ps. 130.  He grants himself to be in a most
deplored condition, if God should reckon with him strictly, and give him quid
pro quo—wages suitable to his work. 
‘If thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?’ ver. 3.  But then, he puts his soul out of all
fear of God’s taking this course with poor penitent souls, by laying down this
comfortable conclusion as an indubitable truth.  ‘But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be
feared;’ ver.
4,
that is, ‘there is forgiveness in thy nature; thou carriest a pardoning heart
in thy bosom; yea, there is forgiveness in thy promise, thy merciful heart doth
not only incline thee to thoughts of forgiv­ing, but thy faithful promise binds
thee to draw forth the same unto all that humbly and seasonably lay claim
thereunto.  Now, this foundation
laid, see what superstructure this holy man raiseth, ‘I wait for the Lord, my
soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope,’ ver. 5.  As if he had said, ‘Lord, I take thee at thy word, and am
resolved by thy grace to wait at this door of thy promise, never to stir thence
till I have my promised dole—forgiveness of my sins—sent out unto me.’  And this is so sweet a morsel, that he
is loath to eat it alone, and therefore he sets down the dish, even to the
lower end of the table, that every godly person may taste with him of it—‘Let
Israel hope in the Lord: for with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is
plenteous redemption.  And he shall
redeem Israel from all his iniquities,’ ver. 7, 8.  As if he had said, ‘That which is a ground of hope to me,
not­withstanding the clamour of my sins, affords as solid and firm a bottom to
any true Israelite or sincere soul in the world, did he but rightly understand
himself, and the mind of God in his promise.  Yea, I have as strong a faith for such as my own soul, and
durst pawn the eternity of its happiness upon this princi­ple—that God shall
redeem every sincere Israelite from all his iniquities.’  This, this is the way to knock down our
sins indeed.  And Satan, when he
comes to reproach us with them, and, by their batteries, to dis­mount our hope,
sometimes a qualm comes over the Christian's heart merely from the greatness of
the things hoped for.  ‘What!’
saith the poor soul, ‘seems it a small thing for me to hope, that of an enemy I
should become a son and heir to the great God! What! a rebel? and not only hope
to be pardoned, but prove a favourite, yea such a one, as to have robes of
glory making for me in heaven, where I shall stand among those that minister
about the throne of God in his heavenly court, and that before I have done him
any more service here on earth?  O,
it is too great good news to prove true.’ 
Thus the poor soul stands amazed—as the disciples, when the first
tidings of the Lord’s resurrection surprised them—and is ready to think its
hope but an idle tale with which Satan abuseth it, ut præsumendo speret et
sperando pereat —that he may presume to hope, and perish with his
presumption.

           Now,
Christian, that thou mayest be able to stride over this stumbling‑block, be
sure to observe those prints of God’s greatness and infinitude that are stamped
upon the promise.  Sometimes you
have them expressed, on purpose to free our thoughts, and ease our hearts of
this scruple.  When God promised
what great things he would do for Abraham, to make them more credible, and
easily believed, he adds, ‘I am the Almighty God,’ Gen. 17:1; and so, Isa. 55:7, ‘Let the
wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him
return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he
will abundantly pardon.’  But how
can this possibly be done, that in the turn of a hand, as it were, such a great
favour can be obtained, which among men could hardly be done in a lifetime
spent suing for it?  O that is
easily answered.  He tells you he
is not a sorry man, but a God, and hath a way by himself in pardoning wrongs,
which none can follow him in; for it is as far above our ways as the heavens
are above the earth. This, Christian, observe, and it will be a key to unlock
all promises, and let you in unto the untold treasures that are in them; yea,
[will] make the greatest prom­ise in the Bible easy to be believed.  Whenever you read any promise, remember
whose bond it is—the word of no other than God.  And when you think of God, be sure you do not narrow him up
in the little compass of you finite apprehensions, but conceive of him always as
an infinite being, whose center is every­where, and circumference is
nowhere.  When you have raised your
thoughts to the highest, then know you are as far yea infinitely farther, from
reaching his glory and immensity, than a man is from touching the body of the
sun with his hand when got upon a hill or mountain.  This is to ascribe greatness to God,’ as we are commanded, Deut. 32:3.  And it will admirably facilitate the
work of believing.

           Suppose
a poor cripple should be sent for by a prince to court, with a promise to adopt
him for his son and make him heir to his crown, this might well seem incredible
to the poor man, when he considers what a leap it is from his beggar’s cottage
to the state of a prince.  No doubt
if the promise had been to pre­fer him to a place in a hospital, or some
ordinary pen­sion for his maintenance, it would be more easily credited by him,
as more proportional to his low con­dition; yet, the greatness of the prince,
and the de­light such take to be like God himself, by showing a kind of
creating power to raise some as it were from nothing unto the highest honours a
subject is capable of—thereby to oblige them as their creatures to their
service—this, I say, might help such a one think this strange accident not
altogether impossible.  Thus
here.  Should a poor soul spend all
his thoughts on his own unmeetness and unworthiness to have heaven and eternal
life conferred on him, it were not possible he should ever think so well of
himself as that he should be one of those glorious creatures that were to enjoy
it.  But, when the greatness of God
is believed, and the infinite pleasure he takes to demonstrate that greatness
this way—by making miserable creatures happy, rather than by perpetuating their
miseries in an eternal state of damnation—and what cost he hath been at to
clear a way for his mercy to freely act in, and, in a word, what a glorious
name this will gain him in the thoughts he thus exalts; these things —which are
all to be found in the word of promise —well weighed, and acknowledged, cannot
but open the heart, though shut with a thousand bolts, to enter­tain the
promise and believe all is truth that God there saith, without any more
questioning the same. A taste I have given in one or two particulars, you see,
how the promises may be suited to answer the partic­ular objections raised
against our hope.  It were easy
here to multiply instances, and to pattern any other case with promises for the
purpose; but this will most effectually be done by you who know your own scru­ples
better than another can.  And be
such true friends to your own souls, as to take a little pains therein.  The labour of gathering a few simples
in the field, and making them up into a medicine by the direction of the
physician, is very well paid for, if the poor man finds it doth him good and
restores him to health.

           Sixth
Direction.  File up thy experiences
of past mercies, and thy hope will grow stronger for the fu­ture.  Experience worketh hope, Rom. 5:4.  He is the best Christian that keeps the
history of God’s gracious dealings with him most carefully, so that he may read
in it his past experiences, when at any time his thoughts trouble him and his
spiritual rest is broken with distracting fears for the future.  This is he that will pass the night of
affliction and temptation with comfort and hope; while others that have taken
no care to pen down—in their memories at least—the remarkable instances of
God’s love and favour to them in the course of their lives, will find the want
of this sweet companion in their sorrowful hours, and be put to sad plunges;
yea, well, if they be not driven to think their case desperate, and past all
hope.  Some­times a little writing
is found in a man's study that helps to save his estate; for want of which he
had gone to prison and there ended his days.  And some one experience remembered keeps the soul from
despair —a prison which the devil longs to have the Christian in. ‘This I
recall to my mind, therefore have I hope,’ Lam. 3:21.  David was famous for his hope, and not less eminent for his
care to observe preserve, the experi­ences he had of God's goodness.  He was able to re­count the dealings of
God to him. They were so often the subject of his meditation and matter of his
dis­course, that he had made them familiar to him. When his hope is at a loss,
he doth but rub his memory up a little and he recovers himself presently, and
chides himself for his weakness. 
‘I said, This is my infir­mity: but I will remember the years of the
right hand of the most High,’ Ps. 77:10. 
The hound, when he hath lost the scent, hunts backward and so recovers
it, and pursues his game with louder cry than ever. Thus, Christian, when thy
hope is at a loss for the life to come, and thou questionest thy salvation in
another world, then look backward and see what God hath already done for thee
in this world.

           Some
promises have their day of payment here, and others we must stay to receive in
heaven.  Now the payment which God
makes of some promises here, is an earnest given to our faith, that the other
also shall be faithfully discharged when their date ex­pires; as every judgment
inflicted here on the wicked is sent as a penny in hand of that wrath the full
sum whereof God will make up in hell. 
Go therefore, Christian, and look over thy receipts.  God hath promised ‘sin shall not have
dominion over you;’ no, not in this life, Rom. 6:14.  It is the present state of a saint in this life that is
intended there.  Canst thou find
this promise made good to thee? is the power of sin broken and the sceptre wrung
out of this king’s hand, whom once thou didst willingly obey as ever subject
his prince? yea, canst thou find he hath but begun to fall by thy unthroning
him in thy heart and affections? 
Dost thou now look on sin not as thou wert wont, for thy prince, but as
a usurper, whose tyranny, by the grace of God, thou art resolved to shake off,
both as intolerable to thee and dishonour­able to God, whom thou now
acknowledgest to be thy rightful Lord, and to whose holy laws thy heart most
freely promiseth obedience?  This,
poor soul, may assure thee that thou shalt have a full dominion over sin in
heaven ere long, which hath begun already to lose his power over thee on
earth.  It is observable how David
rears up his hope to expect heaven’s per­fect state of holiness from his begun
sanctification on earth.  First, he
declares his holy resolution for God, and then his high expectation from
God.  ‘As for me, I will behold thy
face in righteousness: I shall be sat­isfied, when I awake, with thy likeness,’
Ps. 17:15. Hast thou
found God’s supporting hand in all thy tempta­tions and troubles, whereby thou
art kept from sink­ing under them? 
A David would feed his hope for eternal salvation with this, ‘thou hast
holden me by my right hand,’ Ps. 73:23. 
Now observe hope’s infer­ence, ‘Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel,
and af­terward receive me to glory,’ ver. 24.

           And
as experiences carefully kept and wisely im­proved, would conduce much to
strengthening the Christian’s hope on its chief object—salvation; so also would
they lift up its head above all those dis­tracting fears which arise in the
Christian's heart, and put him to much trouble from those cross and af­flicting
providences that befall him in this life. Cer­tainly David would have been more
scared with the big looks and brag deportment of that proud Goliath, had not
the remembrance of the bear and the lion which he slew brought relief to him
and kept them down.  But he had
slain this uncircumcised Philistine in a figure when he tore in pieces those
unclean beasts.  And therefore when
he marches to him, this is the shield which he lifts up to cover himself with,
‘The Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of
the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine,’ I Sam. 17:37.  If experiences were no ground for hope
in future straits —temporary now I mean—then they would not have the force of
an argument in prayer.  But saints
use their experiences to do them service in this case, and make account they
urge God very close and home when they humbly tell him what he hath already
done for them, and expect he should therefore go on in his fatherly care over
them.  ‘Save me from the lion’s
mouth: for thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns,’ Ps. 22:21.  And no doubt a gracious soul may pray
in faith from his past experience, and expect a satisfactory answer to that
prayer wherein former mercies are his plea for what he wants at present. God
himself intends his people more comfort from every mercy he gives them, than
the mercy itself singly and abstractly considered amounts to.  Suppose, Chris­tian, thou hast been
sick, and God hath, at thy hum­ble prayer, plucked thee out of the very jaws of
death, when thou wert even going down his throat almost; the comfort of this
particular mercy is the least God means thee therein; for he would have thee
make it a help to thy faith, and a shore [support] to thy hope, when shaken by
any future strait whatever.  ‘Thou
brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to be meat to the
people inhabiting the wilder­ness,’ Ps. 74:14.  God in that mercy at the Red Sea, we see, is thinking what
Israel should have to live on for forty years together, and looked that they
should not only feast themselves at present with the joy of this stupendous
mercy; but powder it up in their memo­ries, that their faith might not want a
meal in that hungry wilderness all the while they were to be in it. Experiences
are like a cold dish reserved at a feast. Sometimes the saint sits down with
nothing else on his table but the promise and his experience; and he that
cannot make a soul‑refreshing meal with these two dishes deserves to fast.  Be sure, Christian, thou observest this
in every mercy—what is the matter of present thankfulness, and what is ground of
future hope.  Achor is called ‘a
door of hope,’ Hosea
2:15.
God, when he gives one mercy, opens a door for him to give, and us to expect
more mercy through it.  God
compares his promise to ‘the rain,’ which maketh the earth ‘bring forth and
bud, that it may give seed to the sower and bread to the eater,’ Isa. 55:10.  Why shouldst thou, O Christian, content
thyself with half the bene­fit of a mercy?  When God performs his promise, and delivers thee out of this
trouble and that strait, thou art exceedingly comforted, may be, with the
mercy, and thy heart possibly enlarged at present into thank­fulness for the
same.  It is well. Here is ‘bread
for the eater’—something at present feasts thee.  But where is the ‘seed for the sower?’  The husbandman doth not spend all his
corn that he reaps, but saves some for seed, which may bring him another
crop.  So, Christian, thou shouldst
feast thyself with the joy of thy mercy, but save the remembrance of it as
hope-seed, to strengthen thee to wait on God for another mercy and further help
in a needful time.

 

[An objection answered,

with some practical
reflections.]

 

           But,
you will possibly say, how can a saint’s past experience be so helpful to his
hope for the future, when God, we see, often crosseth the saint’s experi­ences?  He delivers them out of one sickness,
and takes them away, may be, with the next; he saves them in one battle without
a scratch or hurt, and in another a while after they are killed or wounded; how
then can a saint ground and bottom his hope from a past deliverance to expect
deliverance in the like strait again?

           Answer
1.  There is the same power
still in God that was then. 
What he did once for thee he can with as much ease do again; and this is
one way thy experi­ences may help thee. Thou hast seen God make bare his arm,
so that except thou thinkest that he since hath lost the strength or use of it,
and is become at last a God with a lame hand, hope hath an object to act upon,
and such one as will lift thy head above water.  Indeed, the soul never drowns in despair till it hath lost
its hold on the power of God.  When
it questions whether God will deliver, this is a sad leak, I confess, and will
let in a thousand fears into thy soul; yet so long as the Christian can use
this pump —I mean, act faith on the power of God, and believe that God can
deliver when he pleases—thou gh it will not clear the ship of his soul of all
its fears, yet it will keep it from quite sinking, because it will preserve him
in a seeking posture.  ‘Lord, if
thou wilt, thou canst make me clean,’ Mark 1:40.  And for thee to say God cannot deliver, who hast been an
eyewitness to what he hath done, were not only to betray thy great unbelief,
but to forfeit thy reason as a man also. 
But,

           Answer
2.  To give a more close answer to the
question, the saint, from his former experiences, even of temporal salvations, may,
yea ought, not only be­lieve that God can, but also that he will, save him in
all future straits and dangers of this nature; only, he cannot conclude
that he will do it in the same way as in former deliverances.  And none I hope will say, if he hath
deliverance, that his experiences are crossed because God doth use another
method in the convey­ance of it to him. A debt may be fully satisfied, as with
money, so with that which is money worth, ex­cept the bond restrains the
payment otherwise.  Now there is no
clause to be found in any promise for tem­poral mercies, that binds God to give
them in specie or in kind. 
Spiritual mercies—such I mean as are saving and essential to the saint’s
happiness—these indeed are promised to be given in kind, because there is
nothing equivalent that can be paid in lieu of them; but temporal mercies are
of such an inferior nature, that a compensation and recompense may be easily
given in their stead; yea, God never denies these to a saint, but for his gain
and abundant advan­tage.  Who will
say the poor saint is a loser whose purse God denieth to fill with gold and
silver, but filleth his heart with contentation? or the sick saint, when God saves
him not by restoring to former health, but by translating to heaven?  And so much may suffice for answer to
the objection propounded. I shall wind up this head with two or three
reflections to be used by the Christian for his better improving past experiences
when he is at a plunge.

           (1.)
Reflection.  Look back,
Christian, to thy past experiences, and inquire whether thou canst not find
that thy God hath done greater matters for thee than this which thou now hast
so many disquieting fears and despairing thoughts about.  I suppose thy present strait great; but
wert thou never in a greater, and yet God did at last set thy feet in a large
place? Thou art now in a sad and mournful posture; but hath not he brightened a
darker cloud than this thou art now under, and let thee out of it into a state
of light and joy?  Surely thy
staggering hope may prevent a fall by catching hold of this experience.  Art thou not ashamed to give thyself
for lost, and think of nothing but drowning, in a less storm than that out of
which God hath formerly brought thee safe to land? See David relieving his hope
by recognizing such an experiment as this, ‘Thou hast delivered my soul from
death: wilt not thou deliver my feet from fall­ing,’ Ps. 56:13.  Hast thou given me the greater, and
wilt thou stand with me for the less? 
Haply thy present fear, Christian, is apostasy.  Thou shalt one day fall by the hand of
thy sins; this runs in thy thoughts, and thou canst not be persuaded otherwise.
Now it is a fit time to recall the day of God’s convert­ing grace.  Darest thou deny such a work to have
passed upon thee?  If not, why then
shouldst thou despair of perseverance? 
That was day wherein he saved thy soul.  ‘This day,’ saith Christ to Zacchaeus, ‘is salvation come to
this house,’ Luke
19:9.  And did God save thy soul by converting
grace, and will he not keep thy feet from falling by his sustaining grace? Was
it not both more mercy and power to take thee out of the power of sin and
Satan, than it will cost him to preserve thee from falling into their hands
again?  Surely the Israelites would
not so often have feared provision in the wilderness, had they remem­bered with
what a high hand God did bring them out of Egypt.  But, may be it is some outward affliction that distresseth
thee.  Is it greater than the
church’s was in cruel bondage and captivity? yet she had some­thing to recall
that put a new life into her hope. 
‘The Lord is my portion, saith my soul; therefore will I hope in him,’ Lam. 3:24.  See, she makes a spiritual
mercy—because incomparably greater of the two—a ground of hope for temporal
salvation, which is less. And hast not thou, Christian, chosen him for thy por­tion?  Dost thou not look for a heaven to
enjoy him in for ever?  And can any
dungeon of outward afflic­tion be so dark that this hope will not enlighten?
Recall thy experiences of his love to thy soul, and thou canst not be out of
hope for thy body and outward condition. 
He that hath laid up a portion in heaven for thee, will lay out surely
all the expenses thou needest in thy way thither.

           (2.)
Reflection.  Remember how
oft God hath confuted thy fears and proved thy unbelief a false prophet.  Hath he not knocked at thy door with in­ward
comfort and outward deliverances, when thou hadst put out the candle of hope,
given over looking for him, and been ready to lay thyself down on the bed of
despair?  Thus he came to Hezekiah,
after he had peremptorily concluded his case desperate, Isa. 38:10, 11.  Thus to the disciples in their
unbelieving dumps, ‘We trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed
Israel,’ Luke
24:21.  They speak as if now they were in doubt
whether they should own their former faith or no.  Hath it not been formerly thus with thee? wert thou never at
so sad a pass—the storm of thy fears so great—that the anchor of hope even came
home, and left thee to feed with misgiving and despairing thoughts, as if now
thy everlasting night were come, and no morning tale more expected by thee? yet
even then thy God proved them all liars, by an unlooked for surprise of mercy
with which he stole sweetly upon thee? 
If so, press and urge this experience home upon thyself, to encourage
thy hope in all future temptations. 
What, O my soul! thou wouldst say, wilt thou again be seared with these
false alarms?—again lend an ear to thy distrustful de­sponding thoughts, which
so oft thou hast found liars, rather than believe the report of the promise,
which never put thy hope to shame as these have done? The saints are oft
feeding their hopes on the carcass of their slain fears.  The time which God chose, and the
instrument he used, to give the captive Jews their jail-delivery and liberty to
return home, were so incredi­ble to them—who now looked rather to be ground in
pieces by those two millstones, the Babylonians with­in, and the Persians
without the city—that when it came to pass, like Peter whom the angel had
carried out of prison, Acts
12:1-17,
it was some time before they could come to themselves, and resolve whether it
was a real truth or but a pleasing dream, Ps. 126:1.

           Now,
see what effect this strange disappointment of their fears had upon their hope
for afterward.  It sends them to
the throne of grace for the accomplish­ment of what of what was so marvellously
begun. ‘The Lord hath done great things for us; whereof we are glad.  Turn again our captivity, O Lord,’ ver. 3, 4. They have
got a hand-hold by this experiment of his power and mercy; and they will not
now let him go till they have more. 
Yea, their hope is raised to such a pitch of confidence, that they draw
a general conclusion from this particular experience for the comfort of
themselves or others in any future distress.  ‘They that sow in tears shall reap in joy.  He that goeth forth and weepeth,
bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his
sheaves with him,’ ver.
5, 6.

           (3.)
Reflection.  Remember what
sinful distem­pers have broke out in thy afflictions and tempta­tions, and how
God hath, notwithstanding these, car­ried on a work of deliverance for thee.  So that thou mayest say, in respect of
these enemies in thy bosom, what David spake triumphantly in regard of his ene­mies
without, that ‘God hath prepared a table before me in the presence of thy
enemies,’ yea, of his ene­mies. 
While thy corruptions have been stirring and acting against him, his
mercy hath been active for thy deliverance.  O what a cordial-draught this would be to thy fainting
hope!  That which often sinks the
Christian’s heart in any distress, inward or outward, and even weighs down his
head of hope that it cannot look up to God for help and succour at such a time,
is the sense of those sinful infirmities which then dis­cover themselves in
him.  ‘How,’ saith the poor soul,
‘can I look that God should raise me out of this sick­ness, wherein I have
bewrayed so much impatience and frowardness?  Or out of that temptation in which I have so little
exercised faith, and discovered so much unbelief?  Surely I must behave myself better before any good news be
sent from heaven to me.’  It is
well, poor Christian, thou art sensible of thy sins as to be thy own accuser,
and prevent Satan’s doing it for thee; yet be not oppressed into discouragement
by them.  Remember how God hath
answered the like objections formerly, and saved thee with a ‘notwith­standing.’  If these could have hardened his bowels
against thee, hadst thou been alive, yea, out of hell this day?  Didst thou ever receive a mercy of
which God might not have made stoppage upon this very account that makes thee
now fear he will not help thee? 
Or, if thou hast not an experience of thy own at hand—which were
strange—then borrow one of other saints. 
David is an instance beyond exception. This very circumstance with which
his deliverance was, as I may say, en­amelled, did above all affect his heart:
‘I said in my haste, All men are liars. 
What shall I render unto the Lord for all his benefits toward me?’ Ps. 116:11, 12.  He remembered his sinful and
distempered carriage; and this he mentions, as to take shame for the shame, so
to wind up his heart to the highest peg of thankfulness.  He knows not how to praise God enough
for that mercy which found him giving the lie to God’s messenger—even Samuel
him­self—that was sent to tell him it was a coming.  And he doth not only make this circumstance an incentive to
praise for what is past, but lays it down for a ground of hope for the
future.  ‘I said in my haste, I am
cut off from before thine eyes: nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications
when I cried unto thee,’ Ps.
31:22.  As if he had said, ‘When I prayed with
so little faith, that I as it were unprayed my own prayer, by concluding my
case in a manner desperate; yet God pardoned my hasty spirit, and gave me that
mercy which I had hardly any faith to expect.’  And what use doth he make of this experi­ence, but to raise
every saint's hope in a time of need? ‘Be of good courage, and he shall
strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord,’ ver. 24.

 

 

 

FOURTH POINT
OF IMPROVEMENT.

 

[Exhortation to them that want

this helmet of hope.]

 

           Be
you exhorted that are yet without this helmet, to provide yourselves with
it.  Certainly if you be but in
your right wits, it is the first thing you will go about, and that with sober
sadness—especially may but three considerations take place in your
thoughts.  First. How deplored a thing it is to be in a hopeless
state.  Second. It is possible that thou who art now without hope,
mayest by a timely and vigorous use of the means obtain a hope of
salvation.  Third. Con­sider the horrid cruelty of this act—to pull down
eternal destruction on thy own head.

 

[Three considerations to make all

provide themselves
with this helmet.]

 

           First Consideration.  How deplored a thing it is to be in
a hopeless state.  The apostle
makes him to be ‘without God’ that is ‘without hope’—‘having no hope, and being
without God in the world,’ Eph. 2:12. 
God, to the soul, is what the soul is to the body. If that be so vile
and noisome a thing, when it hath lost the soul that keeps it sweet; what is
thy soul when nothing of God is in it? 
‘The heart of the wicked is little worth,’ saith Solomon.  And why? but because it hath not God to
put a value on it.  If God, who is
light, be not in thy understanding, thou art blind; and what is an eye whose
sight is out fit for but to help thee break thy neck?  If God be not in thy conscience to pacify and comfort it,
thou must needs be full of horror or void of sense; a raging devil or a stupid
atheist.  If God be not in thy
heart and affections to purify them, thou art but a shoal of fish, a sink of
sin. If God be not in thee, the devil is in thee; for man’s heart is a house
that cannot stand empty.  In a
word, thou canst not well be without this hope neither in life nor death.  Not in life—what comfort canst thou
take in all the enjoyments thou hast in this life with­out the hope of a
better?  A sad legacy it is which
shuts the rebellious child from all claim to the inher­itance.  Thou hast an estate, it may be, but it
is all you must look for.  And is
it not a dagger at the heart of thy joy to think thy portion is paid thee here,
which will be spent by that time the saint comes to receive his?  Much less tolerable is it to be without
this hope in a dying hour.  Who can
without horror think of leaving this world, though full of sorrows, that hopes
for no ease in the other?  The
condemned malefactor, as ill as he likes his smokey hole in the prison, had
rather be there, than accept of deliverance at the hangman's hand; he had rather
live still in his stink­ing dungeon than exchange it for a gibbet.  And great­er reason hath the hopeless
soul—if he understands himself—to wish he may spend his eternity on earth,
though in the poorest hole or cave in it—and that under the most exquisite
torment of stone or gout —than to be eased of that pain with hell’s torment.
Hence is the sad confusion in the thoughts of guilty wretches when their souls
are summoned out of their bodies. 
This makes the very pangs of death stronger than they would be, if these
dear friends had but a hopeful parting. 
If the shriek and mournful outcry of some friends in the room of a dying
man may so dis­turb him as to make his passage more terrible, how much more
then must the horror of the sinner’s own conscience under the apprehensions of
that hell whither it is going, amaze and affright him?  There is a great difference between a
wife’s parting with her husband, when called from her to live at court under
the shine of his prince’s favour, whose return after a while she expects with
an accumulation of wealth and honour; and another whose husband is taken out of
her arms to be dragged to prison and torment.

           Is
this thy case, miserable man, and art thou cutting thy short life out into
chips, and spending thy little time upon trifles, when the salvation of thy soul
is yet to be wrought out?  Art thou
tricking and trim­ming thy slimy carcass, while thy soul is dropping into
hell?  What is this but to be
painting the when the house is on fire? 
For a man to be curious about trim­ming his face, when he is not sure his
head shall stand a day on his shoulders! 
It was an unseasonable time for Belshazzar to be feasting and quaffing
when his kingdom lay at stake and an enemy at the gates.  It would have become a wise prince to
have been fight­ing on the wall than feasting in his palace, and fatting
himself for his own slaughter, which soon befell him, Dan. 5:30.  And it would become thee better to call
up­on thy God, poor sinner, and lie in tears for thy sins at his foot, if yet
haply thy pardon may be obtained, than by wallowing in thy sensual pleasures,
to stupify thy conscience, and lay it asleep, by which thou canst only gain a
little ease from the troublesome thoughts of thy approaching misery.

           Second Consideration.  Consider it is possi­ble—I do not mean
in the way thou art in, for so it is as impossible that thou shouldst get to
heaven, as it is that God should be found a liar—but it is possible that
thou who art now without hope, mayest by a timely and vigorous use of the means
obtain a hope of salvation; and certainly a possible hope carries in it a
force of strong argument to endeavour for an actual hope.  There is never a devil in hell so bad
but if he had a thousand worlds at his dispose—and every one better than this
we dote on—would exchange them all for such a may be, yea count it a cheap
pennyworth too.  It was but a
possibility that brought that heathen king of Nineveh from his throne to lie
grovelling at God’s foot in sackcloth and ashes, and that king will rise up in
judgment against thee if thou dost not more.  For that was a possibility more remote than thine is.  It was spelled out, not from any
express promise that dropped from the preacher to encourage them to humble
themselves and turn to the Lord —for we read of nothing but desolation
denounced —but from that natural theology which was imprinted on their
minds.  This taught them to hope
that he who is the chief good would not be implacable.  But you have many express promises from
God’s faithful lip, that if you in his tie and way seek unto him, as sure as
God is now in heaven, you shall live there with him in glory.  ‘Your heart shall live that seek God,’ Ps. 69:32.  Yea there are millions of blessed ones
now in heaven experimenting the truth of this word, who once had no more right
to heaven than your­selves now have; and that blissful place is not yet crowded
so full but he can and will make room for you if indeed you have a mind to go
thither.  There is one prayer which
Christ made on earth that will keep heaven-gate open for all that believe on
him unto the end of the world. 
‘Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe
on me through their word,’ John 17:20. 
This is good news indeed. 
Me­thinks it would make your souls leap within your breasts, while you
sit under the invitations of the gos­pel, as the babe once did in Elizabeth’s
womb, upon the virgin Mary’s salutation. 
Say not then, sinners, that ministers put you upon impossibilities, and
bid you climb a hill inaccessible, or assault a city that is
unconquerable.  No; it is the
devil, and thy own unbe­lieving heart—who together conspire thy ruin—that tell
thee so.  And as long as you listen
to these coun­sellors you are like to do well, are you not?  Well, whatever they say, know, sinner,
that if at last thou missest heaven—which God forbid—the Lord can wash his
hands over your head and clear himself of your blood; thy damnation will be
laid at thine own door.  It will
then appear there was no cheat in the promise, no sophistry in the offer of the
gospel. What God did tender he was willing to give, but thou didst voluntarily
put eternal life from thee, and thy heart, whatever thy lying lips uttered to
the contrary, did not like the terms. 
‘But my people would not hearken to my voice; and Israel would none of
me,’ Ps.
81:11.  So that when the jury shall go on thy
murdered soul, to inquire how thou camest to thy miserable end, thou wilt be
found guilty of thine own damnation: nemo amittit Deum nisi qui dimittit eum—none
loseth God but he that is willing to part with him.

           Third Consideration.  Consider the horrid cruelty of this
act, for thee, by thy incorrigible and im­penitent heart, to pull down
eternal destruction on thy own head. 
O what a sad epitaph is this to be found on a man’s grave‑stone!  Here lies one that cut his own throat,
that unnaturally made away himself! this the man, that the woman, who would not
be re­claimed!  They saw hell
before them, and yet would leap into it, notwithstanding the entreaties of
Christ by his Spirit and ministers to the contrary!  And the oftener thou hast attempted to do it, and God hath
been staying thy hand by his gracious solicitations, the greater will be thy
shame and confusion before God, men, and angels, at the last day.  God hath set a brand upon those acts of
cruelty which a man com­mits upon himself above all other.  It would speak a man of a harsh currish
nature, that could see a horse in his stable or hog in his sty starve, when he
hath meat to lay before him; more cruel to hear his servant roar and cry for
bread and deny it; yet more horrid if this were done to a child or wife; but of
all—because nature cries loudest for self-preservation—the great­est violence
that can possibly be done to the law of nature is, to forget the duty we owe to
out own life. O what is it then for a sinner to starve his soul by rejecting
Christ ‘the bread of life,’ and to let out his soul's blood at this wide
sluice!  This is matchless
cruelty!  Indeed, that which makes
the self-murder of the body so great a crime is, because it doth so emin­ently—I
will not say unavoidably—hazard the de­struction of the soul.  O how unworthy then art thou to have so
noble a guest as thy soul dwell in thy bos­om, who preparest no better lodgings
than hell for it in another world!—that soul whose nature makes it being
capable of being preferred to the blissful pres­ence of God in heaven’s glory,
if thou hadst not bolted the door against thyself by thy impenitency. But alas!
this which is the worst murder is the most common.  They are but a few molesters that we now and then hear of
who lay violent hands upon their bodies, at the report of which the whole
country trembles; but you can hardly go into any house one day of the week, in
which you shall not find some attempting to make away their souls; yea, that
carry the very knife and halters in their bosoms—their be­loved sins I
mean—with which they stab and strangle them; even those that are full of
natural affections to their bodies, so as to be willing to spend all that they
are worth, with her in the gospel, on physicians when the life of it is in
danger; yet are so cruel to their dying damning souls, that they turn Christ
their phys­ician out of doors, who comes to cure them on free cost.

           In
a word, those that discover abundance of wis­dom and discretion in ordering their
worldly affairs, you would wonder how rational they are, what an ac­count they
will give why they do this, and why that; when it comes to the business of
heaven and the sal­vation of their souls, they are not like the same men. So
that, were you to judge them only by their actings herein, you could not
believe them to be men.  And is it
not sad, that the soul, which furnisheth you with reason for the despatch of
your worldly business, should have no benefit itself from the very reason it
lends you to do all your business with. 
This, as one well saith, is as if the master of the house, who provides
food for all his servants, should be himself kept by them from eating, and so
remain the only starved creature in the house.  And is not this the sad judgment and plague of God, that is
visibly seen upon many, and those that go for wise men too, stilo mundi
—after the manner of the world? 
Are not their souls, which give them understanding, to provide for back
and belly, house and family, themselves starving in the meantime? being kept by
the power of some lust from making use of their understanding and rea­son so
far as to put them upon any serious and vig­orous endeavour for the salvation
of them.  How then can souls that
are so treated prosper?

 

 

 

 

[1]Outhees, i.e. outcry.—Chaucer.

[2]The text has the
“Blessed Paul,” and cites, I Peter 1:3, 4.  However, correcting it to read Peter creates problems in the
rest of the paragraph.  For he then
continues to cite the beginnings of Paul’s epistles for his examples.  All that I can do, for continuity’s
sake, is to change Paul to Peter here, and in the next sentence change the word
‘his’ to Paul.  This should make it
more uniform and clear up the misunderstanding that is bound to arise because
of it.  Also, this has the
advantage of making the fewest changes to Gurnall’s text.

—
SDB

[3]Crank, in this case, bold,
self‑confident.—Ed.

[4]Asseverate: to state seriously
or positively. —  SDB

Direction
Tenth.

 

The
Several Pieces of the Whole Armour of God.

Sixth
Piece—The Christian’s Sword.

 

‘And the sword of the
Spirit, which is the word of God’ 
(Eph. 6:17).

 

         Here
we have the sixth and last piece in the Christian’s panoply brought to our
hand—a sword; and that of the
right make—‘the sword of the Spirit.’  The sword was ever esteemed a most necessary part of the
soldier’s furniture, and therefore hath obtained a more general use in all
ages, and among all nations, than any other weapon.  Most nations have some particular weapons or arms proper to
themselves; but few or none come into the field without a sword.  A pilot without his chart, a scholar
without his book, and a soldier without his sword, are alike ridiculous.  But, above all these, is it absurd to
think of being a Christian, without knowledge of the word of God and some skill
to use this weapon.   The
usual name in Scripture for war is ‘the sword.’  ‘I will call for a sword upon all the in­habitants of the
earth,’ Jer. 25:29; that is, I will
send war.  And this because the
sword is the weapon of most universal use in war, and also that whereby the
greatest execution is done in the battle. 
Now such a weapon is the word of God in the Christian’s hand.  By the edge of this his enemies fall,
and all his great exploits are done. 
‘They overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their
testimony,’ Rev. 12:11.  There are two observables we may
take notice of, before we fall to the closer discussion of the words.  The first from the kind or sort of arms
here presented for the Christian’s use. 
The other from the place or order it stands in.

 

two observables drawn from the words.

 

           First Observable.  Mark the kind or sort of arms here
appointed for the Christian’s use. 
It is a weapon that is both defensive and offensive.  Such is the sword.  All the rest in the apostle’s armoury
are set out by defensive arms, girdle, breastplate, shield, and helmet—such as
are of use to defend and save the sol­dier from his enemy’s stroke.  But the sword doth both defend him and
serves to wound his enemy also.  Of
like use is the word of God to the Christian.

           First.  It is for defence.  Easily might the soldier be disarmed of
all his other furniture, how glistering and glorious soever, had he not a sword
in his hand to lift up against his enemies’ assaults.  And with as little ado would the Christian be stripped of
all his graces, had he not this sword to defend them and himself too from
Satan’s fury.  ‘Unless thy law had
been my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction,’ Ps. 119:92. This is
like the flaming sword with which God kept Adam out of paradise.  The saint is oft compared to Christ’s
garden and orchard.  With the sword
of the word he keeps this his orchard from robbing.  There would not long hang any of their sweet fruit—either
graces or comforts—upon their souls, were not this great robber Satan kept off
with the point of this sword.  O,
this word of God is a terror to him; he cannot for his life overcome the dread
of it.  Let Christ but say, ‘It is
written,’ and the foul fiend runs away with more confusion and terror than
Caligula at a crack of thunder. 
And that which was of such force coming from Christ’s blessed lips to
drive him away, the saints have always found the most successful instrument to
defend them against his fiercest and most impetuous temptations.  Ask David what was the weapon with which
he warded off the blows this enemy made at him, and he will tell you it was the
word of God.  ‘Concerning the works
of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept me from the paths of the
destroyer,’ Ps.
17:4.  That is, by the help of thy word I have
been enabled to preserve myself from those wicked works and outrageous
practices, to which others, for want of this weapon to defend them, have been
harried.

           Second.  It is for offence.  The sword, as it defends the soldier,
so it offends his enemy.  Thus the
word of God is, as a keeping, so a killing sword.  It doth not only keep and restrain him from yielding to the
force of temptations without, but also by he kills and mortifies his lusts
within, and this makes the victory complete.  A man may escape his enemy one day, and be overcome by him
at another time.  We read of some
that for a while escaped the pollutions of the world, yet because their lusts
were never put to the sword, and mortified in them by the power of the word
applied to their hearts, were at last themselves overcome and slain by this secret
enemy that lay skulking within their bosoms, II Peter 2:20, compared with ver. 22.  Absalom, notwithstanding his being
hanged by the hair of his head, might have lived to have taken revenge
afterwards on them by whom he was then beaten, had not Joab come in timely and
sped him, by sending his darts with a message of death to his heart.  We have daily sad experiences of many
that wriggle themselves out of their troubles of con­science—by which for a
time they are restrained, and their sins, as it were, held by the hair—to rush
after­wards into more abominable courses than they did before; and all for want
of skill to use, or courage and faithfulness to thrust this sword by faith into
the heart of their lusts.

           Second Observable.  Observe the order and place wherein
this piece of armour stands. 
The apostle first gives the Christian all the former pieces, and when
these are put on, he then girds this sword about him. The Spirit of God, in
holy writ, I confess, is not always curious to observe method; yet, methinks,
it should not be unpardonable if I venture to give a hint of a double
significancy in this very place and order that it stands in.

           First.  It may be brought in after all the
rest, to let us know how necessary the graces of God’s Spirit are to our
right using of the word. 
Nothing more abused than the word. 
And why? but because men come to it with unsound and unsanctified
hearts.  The heretic quotes it to
prove his false doctrine, and dares be so impudent as to cite it to appear for
him.  But how is it possible they
should father their monstrous births on the pure chaste word of God?  Surely it is because they come to the
word and converse with it, but bring not the girdle of sincerity with them, and
being ungirt, they are unblest. 
God leaves them justly to miss of truth, because they are not sincere in
their inquiry after it.  The brat
is got upon their own hearts by the father of lies, and they come to the word
only to stand as witness to it. 
Another reads the word and is worse after it, more hardened in his lusts
than he was before.  He sees some
there canonized for saints by the Spirit of God, the history of whose lives is
notwithstanding blotted with some foul falls, possibly into those very sins in
which he lies wallowing, and therefore is bold to put himself into the saints’
calendar.  And why so impudent to
do this?  Truly because he comes to
the word with an unholy heart, and wants the breastplate of righteousness to
defend him from the dint of so dangerous a temptation.  Another, for want of faith to give
existence to the truth of the threatening in his conscience, runs boldly upon
the point of this sword, and dares the God of heaven to strike him with
it.  Thus we find those wretches
mentioned by the prophet playing with this edge‑tool: ‘Where is the word of the
Lord? let it come now,’ Jer.
17:15.  As if they had said mockingly , ‘Thou
scarest us with strange bugbears—judgments that in the name of God thou
threatenest are coming on us. When will they come? we would fain see them.  Is God’s sword rusty that he is so long
getting it out of the scabbard?’ 
And the despairing soul, for want of a helmet of hope, deals little
better with the promise than the presumptuous sinner with the threatening.  Instead of lifting it up to defend
himself against the fears of his guilty conscience, he falls upon the point of
it, and destroys his own soul with that weapon which is given him to slay his
enemy with.  Well, therefore, may
the apostle first put on the other pieces, and then deliver this sword to them
to use for their good.  A sword in
a madman’s hand, and the word of God in some wicked man’s mouth, are used much
alike—to hurt only themselves and their best friends with.

           Second.  It may be commended after all the rest,
to let us know [that] the Christian, when advanced to the highest attainments
of grace possible in this life, is not above the use of the word; nay,
cannot be safe without it.  When
girded with sincerity—his plate of righteousness on his breast, the shield of
faith in his hand, and the helmet of hope covering his head, that his salvation
is out of doubt to him at present; yet even then he must take the sword of the
Spirit, which is the word of God. 
This is not a book to be read by the lowest form in Christ’s school
only, but beseeming the highest scholar that seems most fit for a remove to
heaven’s academy.  It is not only
of use to make a Christian by conversion, but to make him perfect also, II Tim. 3:15.  It is like the architect’s rule and
line—as necessary to lay the top-stone of the building at the end of his life
as the foundation at his conversion. 
They therefore are like to prove foolish builders that throw away their
line before the house be finished.

           I
come now to take up the weapon laid before us in the text, and the sword of
the Spirit, which is the word of God.’  In which words these three parts.  FIRST. The weapon itself; that is, ‘the word of God.’
SECONDLY. The metaphor in which it is sheathed—‘the sword,’ with he
person whose it is—‘the sword of the Spirit.’  THIRDLY. An exhortation to make use of this weapon, and
directions how—‘and the sword,’ &c.  That is, take this with all the other before-named
pieces.  So that to whom he directs
the former pieces, to these he gives the sword of the word to use.  Now those you shall find are persons of
all ranks and relations; husbands and wives, parents and children masters and
servants.  He would have none be
without this sword any more than without the girdle, helmet, and the rest,
&c., though this I know will not please the Papists, who would have this
sword of the word, like that of Goliath, laid up out of their reach, and that
in the priest’s keeping also.

 

 

 

DIRECTION
X.—FIRST GENERAL PART.

 

[What is here meant by the Word of God.]

 

‘The Word of
God’  (Eph. 6:17).

 

           I
begin with the weapon itself—‘the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of
God.’  I shall first hold forth
the sword naked, and the put it again into its sheath, to handle it under the
metaphor of a sword.  There is a
twofold word of God.  First. A substantial or subsisting word,
and that is the eternal Son of God. 
Second. There is a
declarative word of God, differing according to the sundry times and diverse
manners in which he hath been pleased to reveal his will to man.

 

[Twofold reference of
the

expression ‘the word
of God.’]

 

           First.  There is a substantial or subsisting word, and that is the
eternal Son of God.  ‘The Word was
with God, and the Word was God,’ John 1:1.  ‘And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his
name is called The Word of God,’ Rev. 19:13.  This is spoken of a person, and he is no other than Christ
the Son of God.  But he is not the
word of God in the text.  The
Spirit is rather Chr ist’s sword, than Christ the sword of the Spirit; in the 15th
verse of the fore­named chapter, ‘Out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that
with it he should smite the nations.’

           Second.  There is a declarative word of God, and this is manifold,
according to the divers ways and manners where­by the Lord hath been pleased to
de­clare his mind to the sons of men. 
At first, while the earth was thin sown with people, and the age of man
so voluminous as to contain many centuries of years, God delivered his mind by
dreams and visions, with such like immediate revelations unto faithful wit­nesses,
who might instruct others of their present gen­eration therein, and transmit
the knowledge of the same to after ages. 
They lived so long that three holy men were able, from the death of
Adam, to preserve the purity of religion by certain tradition, till within a
few years of the Israelites’ going down to Egypt.  For, as a reverend and learned pen calculates the chron­ology,
Methuselah lived above two hundred years with Adam, and from him might receive
the will of God re­vealed to him. Shem lived almost a hundred years with
Methuselah, and Shem was alive to the fiftieth year of Isaac’s age, who died
but a few years before Israel’s going into Egypt.  Thus long did God forbear to commit his will to writing,
because it, passing through so few, and those trusty hands, it might safely be
preserved.

           But
when the age of man’s life was so con­tracted, that from eight and nine hundred
years—the then ordinary duration of it—it shrank into but so many tens, as it
was in Moses time, Ps.
90;
and when the people of God grew from a few persons to a multi­tude in Egypt—and
those corrupted with idolatry —God now intending at their deliverance thence,
to form them into a polity and commonwealth, thought it fit, for the preventing
of corruption in his worship, and degeneracy in their lives, that they should
have a written law to be as a public standard to direct them in both.  And accordingly he wrote the ten
command­ments with his own finger on tables of stone; and commanded Moses to
write the other words he had heard from him on the mount, Ex. 34:27; yet so,
that he still continued to signify his will by extraordinary revelations to his
church, and also to enlarge this first edition of his written word, according
to the necessity of the times; reserving the canon of the sacred writ to be
finished by Christ the great doctor [teacher] of the church, who completed the
same, and by the apostles, his public notaries, consigned it to the use of his
church to the end of the world. 
Yea, a curse from Christ’s mouth cleaves to him that shall add to or take
from the same, Rev.
22:18, 19.  So that now all those ways whereby God
directly made known his mind to this people, are resolved into this one of the
Scriptures, which we are to receive as the undoubted word of God, containing in
a perfect rule of faith and life, and to expect no other revelation of his mind
to us.  Such is the meaning of Heb.
1:1: ‘God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto
the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his
Son.’  Therefore called the ‘last
days,’ because that we are to look for no other revelation of God’s will.  And therefore for ever let us abhor
that blasphemy of Joachim, Abbas, Wigelians, and others that have fallen into
the same frenzy with them, who dream of a threefold doctrine flowing from the
three Persons of the sacred Trinity —the law from the Father, the gospel from
the Son, which we have in the New Testament, and a third from the Spirit, which
they call evangelium eternum —the everlasting gospel.  Whereas, the Spirit of God himself, by
whom the Scriptures were indited, calls the doctrine in them ‘the everlasting
gospel,’ Rev.
14:6.
Thus much to show what is here meant by the word of God.  From whence the doctrine follows.

 

[The divinity of the Scriptures, and
the

sufficiency of their own
testimony

in proof of the
same.]

 

           Doctrine.  That the holy Scriptures are the un­doubted word of God.  By the Scripture I mean the Old and New
Testaments contained in the Bible; both {of} which are that one foundation
whereupon our faith is built: ‘Built upon the foundation of the apostles and
prophets,’ Eph.
2:20.  That is the doctrine which God by them
hath delivered unto his church, for they were under the unerring guidance of
the Spir­it: ‘All scripture is given by inspiration of God,’ II Tim. 3:16, 2,@B<,LFJ@H—breathed by
God; it came as tru­ly and immediately from the very mind and heart of God, as
our breath doth from within our bodies. 
Yea, both matter and words were indited by God; for the things which
they spake were ‘not in the words which man’s wisdom teacheth, but which the
Holy Ghost teacheth,’ I
Cor. 2:13.  God did not give them a theme to dilate
and enlarge upon with their own parts and abilities; but confined them to what
he indited.  They were but his
amanuenses to write his infallible dic­tate; or as so many scribes, to
transcribe what the Spirit of God laid before them.  This is given as the reason why no scripture is to be sensed
by our private fancy or conceit. 
We are to take the meaning of it from itself, as we find one place
clears another; be­cause it came not from the private spirit of any man at
first, ‘but holy men of God spake as they were moved,’ or carried, ‘by the Holy
Ghost,’ II
Peter 1:20 and ver. 21 compared. 
Now ejusdem est condere et inter­pretari—the power that makes the
law, that must expound it.

           Question.  But it may be some will say, Do you
bring Scripture to bear witness for itself?  The ques­tion is, whether the Scripture be the word of God?
and you tell us the Scripture saith so, and is that enough?

           Answer.  This would carry weight, if it were the
word of some sorry creature that stood upon the trial; but a greater than man
is here.  Humana dita argu­mentis
ac testibus egent; Dei autem sermo ipse sibi testis est, quia necesse est
quicquid incorrupta veritas loquitur incorruptum sit veritas testimonium:
so Salvan (De
Gub. Dei, lib. iii)—men need arguments and witnesses to prove and vouch what
they say to be true; but the word of God is a sufficient witness to itself,
because what truth itself, which is pure, saith, can be no other than a sincere
and true testimony.  Christ, who
thought it derogatory to the dignity of his person to borrow credit from man’s
testimony, did yet refer himself to the report that the Scripture made of him;
and was willing to stand or fall in the opinion of his very enemies, as the
testimony thereof should be found concerning him, John 5:34, compared
with ver. 39.
And therefore their testimony may well pass for themselves.  He that cannot see this sun by its own
light, may in vain think to go find it with candle and lantern of human
testimony and argument.  Not that
these are wanting, or useless.  The
testimony of the church is highly to be reverenced, because to it are these
oracles of God delivered, to be kept as a sacred depositum and
charge.  Yea, it is called ‘the
pillar and ground of truth,’ I Tim. 3:15, and ‘the candlestick, Rev. 1:12, from
whence the light of the Scriptures shines forth into the world.  But who will say, that the proc­lamation
of a prince hath its authenticity from the pillar it hangs on in the market
cross? or that the can­dle hath its light from the candlestick it stands on?
The office of the church is ministerial—to publish and make known the word of
God; but not magister­ial and absolute—to make it Scripture, or unmake it, as she
is pleased to allow or deny her stamp. 
This were to send God to man for his hand and seal, and to do by the
Scriptures, as Tertullian saith in his Apology the heathens did with
their gods, who were to pass the senate, and gain their good‑will, before they
might be esteemed deities by the people. 
And does not the church of Rome thus by the Scriptures? sending us to
the pope for leave to believe the Scrip­ture to be Scripture?  The blasphemous speech of Hermanus is
notoriously known, who said, that the Scriptures did tantum valere, quantum
Æsopi fabulæ, nisi accedat ecclesiæ testimonium—that they are of no greater
force than the fables of Aesop, unless the testimony of the church be
added.  O how like is Rome to
Rome!  Superstitious Rome to pagan
Rome! But we need not travel so far to be determined in this case.  The Scripture itself will save us the
pains of this wearisome journey to so little purpose, being more able to
satisfy us of its own divine extraction, than the pope, sitting in his porphyry
chair with all his card­inals about him. 
Neither is there any necessity to ask for a messenger to ascend on high,
who may from heaven bring down their letters testimonial unto us; seeing they
bear heaven’s superscription so fairly writ upon their own forehead, as denies
them to proceed from any but God himself. 
May a particular man be known from a thousand others by his face, voice,
or handwriting?  Certainly then it
cannot seem strange that the God of heaven should be discerned from his sorry
creature, by his voice and writing in the sacred Scriptures.  Do we not see that he hath interwoven
his glorious name so in the works of creation, that they speak his power and
Godhead, and call him Maker in their thoughts, who never read the Bible, or
heard of such a book?—so that they could not steal the notion thence, but had
it from the dictate of their own consciences, exhorting the acknowledgment of a
deity.  And much more will an
enlightened con­science and sanctified heart be commanded by the overpowering
evidence that shines forth in the Scrip­tures to fall down and cry, It is the
voice of God, and not any creature that speaks in them.  Indeed the grand truths and chief
notions found in the Scrip­tures, are so connatural to the principles of grace,
which the same Holy Spirit, who is the inditer of them, hath planted in the
hearts of all the saints, that their souls ever spring and leap at the reading
and hearing of them, as the babe did in Elizabeth’s womb at the salutation of
the virgin Mary.  The lamb doth not
more certainly know her dam in the midst of a whole flock (at whose bleating
she passeth by them all to come to be suckled by her), than the sheep of Christ
know his voice in the saving truths of the Scriptures—the sincere milk whereof
they desire, and are taught of God to taste and discern from all other. Indeed,
till a soul be thus enlightened and wrought upon by the Spirit of God, he may
have his mouth stopped by such arguments for the divinity of them, as he cannot
answer; but he will never be persuaded to rest on them, and cordially embrace
them as the word of God.  As we see
in the scribes and Pharisees, who oft were nonplussed and struck down
speechless by the dint of Christ’s words, yet, as those wretches sent to attack
the person of Christ, rose up from the earth—where the majesty of Christ’s
deity, looking out upon them, had thrown them grovelling—to lay violent hands
on him; so those obdurate Pharisees and scribes, after all their convictions,
returned to op­pose the doctrine he preached, and that most of them unto death.
Yea, that part of the Scripture they seemed to cry up so highly, the law of
Moses, and made the ground of their quarrel against Christ, our Saviour is bold
to tell them, that as great admirers as they were thereof, they did not so much
as believe it to be the word of God. 
How could they indeed have a true divine faith on it who wanted the
Spirit of God that alone works it? 
‘Had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: for he wrote of me,’ John 5:46. Erasmus
tells his friend in a letter, that he met with many things charged on Luther by
the monks for heresies, which Augustine passed among them for sound
truths.  But certainly they did not
really believe them to be truths in Augustine which they condem­ned in
Luther.  Neither did the Pharisees
in truth be­lieve what Moses wrote, because they opposed Christ, who did but
verify what Moses before from God’s mouth had spoke.  But because, when the Spirit of God comes to raise the heart
to a belief of the word of God, he doth it by putting his own weight and force
to those arguments which are couched in the word, and so doth sigillare
animum charactere illorum—leave the print or character of them sealed upon
the soul; therefore I shall draw out an argument or two among many that are to
be found in the Scripture itself, proving the parentage thereof to be
divine.  I know it is a beaten path
I am now walking in, and I shall speak •88äH—otherwise, than •88"—other
things; the same things for substance which you may meet in many others, only a
little otherwise shaped on my private forge.  For my own part, I think it more wis­dom to borrow a sword
of proved metal at another’s hands, than to go with a weak leaden one of my own
into the field, and so come home well beaten for my folly and pride.

           The
two general heads from which I deduce my demonstrations, are these:  First.
The matter of the Scriptures.  Second. The supernatural effects
produced by them.

 

          

 

FIRST
GENERAL HEAD.

 

[Proof of the
divinity of the Scriptures

from
their subject‑matter.]

 

           The
very matter contained in the holy Scriptures demonstrates their heavenly
descent; it being such as cannot be the birth or product of a
creature.  Let us search the
Scriptures a little, and consider the several parts thereof, and see whether
they do not all bear the image of God upon them.  Consider, First.
The historical part of Scripture.  Second. The prophet­ical.  Third.
The doctrinal.  Fourth. The precep­tive, with its
appendices of promises and threatenings to enforce the same.  And see if a print of a Deity be not
stamped upon them all.

 

[The historical Scriptures bear

the impress of
Deity.]

 

           First Part.  The historical part of the Scrip­tures.  In this let us consider, First.
The antiquity of the matter related. 
Second. The simplicity and sincerity of the penmen relating what
concerns them­selves.

           First.  The antiquity of the matter
related. There are some pieces that could not possibly drop from a creature’s
pen.  Where should or could he have
his reading and learning to enable him to write the history of the
creation?  The heathen, it is
confessed, by the inquiry of natural reason, have made a dis­covery thus far,
that the world had a beginning, and could not be from eternity, and that it
could be the workmanship of none but God; but what is this to the compiling of
a distinct history, how God went to work in the production thereof? what order
every creature was made in? and how long God was finishing the same?  He that is furnished for such an enterprise,
must be one that was pre‑existent to the whole world, and an eye‑witness to
every day’s work, which man, that was made the last day, cannot pretend unto.
And yet there is history more ancient than this in the Scripture, where we find
what was done at the council-table of heaven, before the world began, and what
passed there in favour of man, whom afterwards he would make.  Who could search these court‑rolls, I
wonder, and bring us intelligence of the everlasting decrees then resolved on,
and promises made by the Father to the Son of eternal life in time to be con­ferred
on his elect? Titus
1:2.

           Second.  The simplicity and sincerity of holy
penmen, in relating what most concerns themselves, and those that were near and
dear to them.  We may possibly find
among human authors, some that carry their pen with an even hand in writing the
history of others, the making known whose faults casts no dis­honourable
reflection upon him that records them. Thus, Suetonius spared not to tell the
world how wicked great emperors were, who therefore is said ‘to have taken the
same liberty in writing their lives that they took in leading them.’  But where is the man that hath not a
hair upon his pen, when he comes to write of the blemishes of his own house or
person? Alas! here we find that their pen will cast no ink. They can rather
make a blot in their history than leave a blot on their own name; they have,
like Alexander’s painter, a finger to lay upon these scars; or, if they mention
them, you shall observe they learn their pen on a sudden to write smaller than
it was wont.  But in the history of
the Scripture, none of this self-love is to be found, the penmen whereof are as
free to expose their own shame and nakedness to the world’s view as any
others.  Thus Moses brands his own
tribe for their bloody murder on Shechem, Gen. 34.  An enemy could not have set the brand heavier on their name
than himself doth it; his own brother is not favoured by him, but his idolatry
set upon the file, Ex.
32.  The proud behaviour of his dear sister,
and the plague of God which befell her, escapes not his pen, Num. 12.  No, not the incest of his own par­ents,
Ex. 6:20.  So that we must say of him, concerning
the impartiality of his pen in writing, what himself saith of Levi in the
execution of justice, that he ‘said unto his father, and to his mother, I have
not seen him, neither did he acknowledge his brethren,’ Deut. 33:9.  In a word, to despatch this particular,
he is no more tender of his personal honour than he is of his house and family,
but doth record the infirmities and miscarriages of his own life: as his
backwardness to enter upon that difficult charge, Ex. 3, 4—wherein he
discovered so much unbelief and pusillanimity of spirit, notwithstanding his
clear and immediate call thereunto by God himself; hid neglect of a divine
ordinance in not circumcising his child, and what the sin had like to cost him;
his frowardness and im­patience in murmuring at the troubles that accom­panied
his place wherein God had set him, Num. 11:11‑13; and his unbelief after so many
miraculous seals from heaven set to the promise of God, for which he had his
leading staff taken from him, and the honour of conducting Israel into Canaan
denied him—a sore and heavy expression of God’s displeas­ure against him, Num. 20:12.  Certainly we must con­fess, had not his
pen been guided by a spirit more than human, he could never have so perfectly
con­quered all carnal affections, so as not the least to favour himself in
reporting things thus prejudicial to his honour in the world.

           And
the same spirit is found to breathe in the evangelists’ history of the
gospel—they being as little dainty of their own names as Moses was; as may be
observed in their freedom to declare their own blem­ishes and their fellow
apostles’.  So far were they from
wronging the church with a lame mutilated story of Christ’s life and death, to
save their own credits, that they interweave the weaknesses of one another all
along their relations.  Hence we
read of the sinful passion and revenge working the sons of Zebedee; Peter
acting the devil’s part to tempt his Master at another time; the ignorance of
all the twelve in some main principles of Christianity for awhile; their ambi­tion
who should be greatest, and their wrangling about it; their unbelief and
cowardice, one denying his Lord, and the rest fleeing their colours, when they
should have interposed their own bodies betwixt their Master and the danger, as
resolved wither to die for him, or at least with him, and not save their lives
with so dishonourable a flight;—these, and such like pas­sages, declare them to
be acted in their writings by a spirit higher than their own, and that by no
other than by God himself, for whom they so willingly de­base themselves in the
eyes of the world, and lay their names in the dust, that the glory of his name
might be exalted in this their free acknowledgment.

 

[The prophetical Scriptures bear

the impress of
Deity.]

 

           Second Part.  The prophetic part of the Scrip­tures; which contains
some wonderful predictions of things to come, as could drop from no pen but one
guided by a divine hand; all of which have had their punctual performance in
the just periods foretold. Indeed from whom could these come but God?  ‘The secret things belong unto the Lord
our God,’ Deut.
29:29.  And predictions surely may pass very
well for secrets; they are arcana ejus imperii—secrets of his
government; such secrets, that God offers to take him —whoever he is—and set
him with himself in his own throne, that is able to foretell things to come.  ‘Shew the things that are to come
hereafter, that we may know that ye are gods,’ Isa. 41:23.  This must be con­fessed to be a flower
of the crown, and an incom­municable property and prerogative of the only true
God, who stands upon the hill of eternity, and from thence hath the full
prospect of all things, and to whose infinite understanding they are all
present; for his will being the cause of all events, he must needs know them,
because he knoweth that.  The
devil, in­deed, is very ambitious to be thought able to do this, and to gain
the reputation hereof, hath had his mock‑prophets and prophecies in all ages,
with which he hath abused the ignorant credulous world.  But alas! his predictions are no more
true prophecies, than his miracles are true miracles.  He puts a cheat upon the understandings of silly souls in
the one, as he doth on their senses in the other.  For his predictions are either dark and dubious, cunningly
packed and laid, that, like a picture in plicis—folds, they carried two
faces under one hood; and in these folds the subtle serpent wrapped himself, on
purpose to save his credit, which way soever the event fell out. And this got
Apollo the name of Loxias, of 8@>ÎH, obliquus; propter obliqua et
tortuosa responsa ejus—because he mocked them that consulted his oracle
with such ambiguous answers, that sent them as wise home as they came to
him.  Indeed, the devil found it
necessary thus to do.  Had he not
with this patch of policy eked out the scantiness of his own un­derstanding,
the nakedness thereof would have been seen by every vulgar eye, to his shame
and to the con­tempt of his oracles. 
Or, if his predictions were more plainly delivered, they were,

           First.  Of such things as he spelled out by the
help of nature’s alphabet, and came to the knowledge of by diving into
the secrets of natural causes, before they discovered themselves unto
the observation of man’s duller understanding; and this made them cried up for
wonderful predictions, and supernatural, by those who could not see this clue
in Satan’s hand that guided him. 
If a man should meet you in the street, and tell you such a friend of
yours will die within a few months, whom you left well, to your thinking, but a
few minutes before, and the event should seal to the truth of what he said, you
might possibly begin to think this a wonderful prophecy. But, when you
afterwards know that he who told you this was a physician rarely accomplished,
and had upon much study and strict observation of your friend’s bodily state,
found a dangerous disease growing insensibly upon him, you would alter your
opinion, and not think him a prophet, but admire him for a skilful
physician.  Thus, did we but
consider the vastness of Satan’s natural parts—though limited, because
created—and the improvement he hath made of them, by the study and experience
of so many thousand years, we shall not count his predictions for prophecies,
but rather as comments and explications of the short and dark text of natural
causes, and acknowledge him a learned naturalist, but not deserv­ing the name
of a true prophet.

           Second.  If he hath not his hint from natural
causes, then he gathers his inferences from moral and political causes,
which, compared together by so deep a pate as his, give him great help and
advantage to infer many times what in very great probability, and all
likelihood of reason, will come to pass. 
Thus what the devil told Saul would become of him, his army, and
kingdom, was nothing but what he might ration­ally conclude from those premises
which lay before him, in his being rejected of God, and another anointed by
God’s own command to be king in his stead, together with the just height, and
full measure, to which Saul’s sins might now be thought to have arrived—by his
going to a witch for counsel—and a puissant army of the Philistines preparing
against him, whose wonted courage now so failed him, that he went rather like a
malefactor pinioned and bound with the terrors of his accusing conscience, to
meet an executioner that should give the fatal stroke to him, than like a
valiant captain, to adorn and enrich him­self with the spoils of his
enemies.  All these laid to­gether
make it appear the devil, without a gift of prophecy, might tell him his doom.

           Third.  God may, and doth, sometimes reveal
future events to Satan, as when god intends him to be his instrument to
execute some of his purposes, he may, and doth, acquaint him with the same
some time before.  And you will
not say the hangman is a prophet, that can tell such a man shall, on such a
day, be beheaded or hanged, when hath a warrant from the king that appoints him
to do that office.  Thus Satan
could have told Job beforehand what sad afflictions would certainly befall him
in his estate, servants, chil­dren, and his own body; because God had granted
him a commission to be the instrument that should bring all these upon
him.  But neither Satan nor any
creatures else are able of themselves to foretell such events as neither arise
from natural causes, nor may be rationally concluded to follow from moral and
po­litical probabilities; but are locked up in the cabinet of the divine will,
how they shall fall out.  And such
are the prophecies which we find in the holy Scrip­tures, by which they plainly
prove their heavenly extraction. 
They must needs come from God that tell us what God only knew, and
depended on his will to be disposed of. 
Who but God could tell Abraham where his posterity should be, and what
should partic­ularly befall them, four hundred years after his death? —for so
long before was he acquainted with their deliverance out of Egypt, Gen. 15, which
accord­ingly came to pass punctually on the very day foretold, Ex. 12:41.  How admirable are the prophecies of
Christ the Messiah, in which his person, birth, life, and death, even to the
minute, and circumstances of them, are as exactly and particularly set down,
many ages before his coming upon the stage, as by the evan­gelists themselves,
who were upon the place with him, and saw all that was done with their own
eyes.  And though some things foretold
of him may be thought, because small and inconsiderable in themselves, not to
deserve a mention in so high and sacred a proph­ecy—as our Saviour’s riding on
an ass, Zech.
9:9;
the thirty pieces given for him, and the purchase of the potter’s field afterwards
with them, Zech.
11:12, 13;
and the preserving his bones whole, when they that had suffered with him had
theirs broken—these, I say, and such like, though they may seem inconsiderable
passages in themselves, yet upon due weighing the end for which they are
mentioned, we shall find that our weak faiths could not well have spared their
help to strengthen it in the belief of the prophecy.  Indeed, a great weight of the argument to prove the truth
and divinity of the prophecy, moves upon these little hinges; because, the less
these are in themselves, the more admirably piercing and strong must that eye
be that could see such small things at so great a distance. None but an
infinite understanding could do this! And now I hope none will dare ask ‘But how
may we be sure that such prophecies were extant so long be­fore their
fulfilling, and not foisted in after these things were done?’—seeing they were
upon public record in the church of the Jews, and not denied by those that
denied Christ himself.  And truly
this one consideration cast into the scale after all the former, doth give an
overweight to the argument we are now upon—I mean, that these prophecies were
so long, and that so openly, read and known.  And conse­quently [it were] impossible that Satan should be
ig­norant of them, and not take the alarm from them to do his utmost to impede
their accomplishment, see­ing his whole kingdom lay at stake, so as either he
must hinder them, or they would ruin it; and that notwithstanding all this,
together with his restless en­deavour against them, they should be all so
fairly delivered in their full time; yea, many of them by the midwifery of
those very persons that would, if pos­sible, have destroyed them in the womb,
as we see, Acts
4:27.  Here breaks out the wisdom and power of
a God, with such a strong beam of light and evidence, that none of the
Scriptures’ enemies can wishly look against it.

 

[The doctrinal part of Scripture

bears the impress of
Deity.]

 

           Third Part.  The doctrinal part of the Scrip­tures; by which, in
this place, I mean only those grounds and principles of faith that are laid
down in Scripture, and proposed to be believed and embraced of all that desire
eternal life.  There is a divine
glory that is to be seen on the very face of them, being so sublime, that no
creature can be the inventor of them. To instance but in a few for all.  First, God himself, who is the prime
object of our faith.  Who but God
could tell us who and what his nature is? 
That there is a God, we confess is a notion that natural reason hath
found the way to search out.  Yea,
his Godhead and power are a lesson taught in the school of nature, and to be
read in the book of the creatures. 
But how long men who have no higher teaching are learning the true
knowledge of God, and how little progress they make therein, we see in the poor
heathen, among whom the wisest philosophers have been such dunces, groping
about this one principle one age after another, and yet not able to find the
door; as the apostle tells us when he saith that ‘the world by wisdom knew not
God,’ I
Cor. 1.  But, as for the trinity of persons in
the Godhead, this is such a height as the heart of man never could take aim at,
so much as to dream or start a thought of it; so that, if God had not revealed
it, the world of necessity must have for ever continued in the ignorance
thereof.  And the same must be said
of all gospel truths, Jesus Christ, God‑man, justification by faith in his
blood, and the whole method of grace and salvation through him. They are all
such notions as never came into the heart of the wisest sophists in the world
to conceive of; and therefore it is no wonder that a little child, under the
preaching of the gospel, believes these mysteries which Plato and Aristotle were
ignorant of, because they are not attained by our parts and indus­try, but
communicated by divine and supernatural revelation.  Yea, now they are revealed, how does our reason gaze
at them as notions that are foreign, and mere strangers to its own natural
conceptions, yea, too big to be grasped and comprehended with its short span,
which makes it so malapert—where grace is not master to keep it in
subjection—as to object against the possibility of their being true, because
itself cannot measure them?  As if
the owl should say the sun had no light, because her weak eyes cannot bear to
look on it.  These are truths to be
believed on the credit of him that relates them, and not to be entertained or
rejected as they correspond to, or differ from, the mould of our reason.  He that will handle these with his
reason, and not his faith, is like to be served as the smith—it is Chrysostom’s
comparison—that takes up the red-hot iron with his hand, and not with his
tongs, what can he expect but to burn his fingers with them?

 

[The preceptive part of Scripture
bears

the impress of
Deity.]

 

           Fourth Part.  The fourth and last part in our division is the preceptive
part of the Scriptures, or that which contains commands and precepts.  And this will be found to carry the superscription
of its divinity on its forehead, and that with as legible and fair characters
as any of the former, if we do but consider, First. The vast extent of
Scripture com­mands; and Second. Their spotless purity.

           First.  The vast extent of Scripture
commands. This is  such as
never any human laws, though of the greatest monarch that ever swayed a
scepter, could pretend unto.  Where
is the prince, among the sons of men, that ever went about to give laws to all
man­kind, and did not rather, in his royal edicts and laws, respect that
particular people, and those nations, whose lot fell within the circle of their
empire?  Of all the empires the
world ever had, the Roman was with­out compare the greatest; and yet when the
Roman eagle’s wings were best grown, they could not overspread more than the
third part of this lower world. 
And how vain and ridiculous had it been for the emperor to have
attempted to make a law for those nations which neither knew him, nor he them?
But in the Scripture we find such laws as concern all mankind, wherever they
live, and which have been promulgated, where the Bible was never seen.  Their sound has gone into all the
earth, and their words to the end of the world.  Many of the laws in sacred writ, they are but a second, and
that fairer, edition of what was found written in the consciences of men and
women before the Scripture came forth. 
So that, if those laws that are cut with so indelible a character in the
consciences of all the sons of Adam, be of God, then the Scripture must be
confessed to proceed from God also.

           Yet
further.  As the Scripture takes
all mankind to task, and lays its bonds on all, high and low, rich and poor; so
its laws bind the whole man.  The
heart with its most inward thoughts is laid in these chains, as well as the
outward man. Indeed, the heart is the principle subject, whose loyalty is most
provided for in the precepts of Scripture.  Those commands that contain our duty to God, require that
all be done with the heart and soul. 
If we pray, it must be ‘in the spirit,’ John 4:23, or else we had as good do nothing,
for we transgress the law of prayer. 
If it be a law that respects our carriage to man, still the heart is
chiefly intended: ‘Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart,’ Lev. 19:17; ‘Curse not
the king, no not in thy thought,’ Ecc. 10:20.  And accordingly the promises and threatenings, which attend
the commands of Scrip­ture—as the arteries do the veins in man's body—to
inspirit and enforce them, are suitable to the spiritual nature of those
commands; the rewards of the one, and punishments of the other, being such as
respect the spiritual performance or neglect of them.  ‘Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God,’ Matt. 5:8.  Not blessed are they whose hands are
clean, though their hearts are foul and filthy.  So, ‘But cursed be the deceiver, which hath in his flock a
male, and voweth, and sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing,’ Mal. 1:14.  The deceiver there is the hypocrite,
that gives God the skin of the sacrifice, the shape of the duty for the
substance, the lean of an outside obedience instead of the fat of the inward
man, viz. the obedience of the heart. 
And as the principle ob­ject that these are levelled to and against, is
the obedience or disobedience of the heart; so the subject or vessel into which
the one emptieth its blessings, and the other its curses, is chiefly the soul
and spirit: ‘They shall praise the Lord that seek him: your heart shall live
for ever,’ Ps.
22:26.  ‘I comfort you...and your heart shall
rejoice,’ Isa.
66:13, 14.  ‘Give them sorrow of heart, thy curse O
God!’ Lam.
3:65.

           Now
I would fain know the man that ever went about to form such laws as should bind
the hearts of men, or prepare such rewards as should reach the souls and
consciences of men. Truly, if any mortal man—be he the greatest of the world’s
monarchs —should make a law that his subjects should love him with all their
hearts and souls, and not dare, upon peril of his greatest indignation, to bid
a trai­torous thought against his royal person welcome in their souls, but
presently confess it to him, or else he would be avenged on him; he would
deserve to be more laughed at for his pride and folly, than Xerxes for casting
his fetters into the Hellespont to chain the surly waves with them into his
obedience, or Caligula, that threatened the air, if it durst rain when he was
at his pastimes, who yet, poor sneak, durst not himself so much as look into
the air when it thundered. Certainly a bedlam would be fitter for such a madman
than a king’s throne and palace, that should so far forfeit his reason, as to
think that the thoughts and hearts of men were within his territories and juris­diction.  Who need fear such a law, when none but
the offender himself can bring in evidence of the fact? There have been indeed
some that, intending to take away the life of their prince by a bloody
murderous knife, have been attached by their own conscience, and forced by it
to blab and confess their own wicked thoughts, before any other could be their
accuser, so sacred are the persons of God’s anointed ones; but not from the
power of man or his law making them do so, but the dread of God arresting their
conscience for violating his law, which indeed not only binds up subjects’
hands from killing, but hearts also from cursing, kings in our very
thought.  This, this the law which
rules in the consciences of the worst of men; a bit that God rides the fiercest
sinners with, and so curbs them, that they can never shake it out of their
mouths.  Enough to prove the
divinity thereof.

           Second.  The spotless purity of Scripture
com­mands do no less evince their divine extraction.  God is ‘the holy One,’ Isa. 43.  He alone is perfectly holy: ‘The heavens are not clean in
his sight,’ Job
15:15.  He can charge the angels themselves—who
may be the heavens in the forementioned place—‘with folly,’ Job 4:18, because,
though they never sinned, yet they are sinable.  It is possible they might sin, as some of their order have
done, if not kept from it by confirming grace.  And as God is the only holy person, so the Scripture is the
only holy book.  All besides this
have their errata, which are corrected by this, ‘The fear of the Lord is clean,
enduring for ever,’ Ps.
19:9.  That is, the word of the Lord is ‘clean’—called
‘the fear of the Lord,’ because it teacheth it; as God is called the fear of
Isaac, because the object of his fear. 
The word is clean, and mark, it ‘endureth for ever;’ that is, it ever
continues, and shall be found so. 
There are dregs and sediment that will appear in the holiest writings of
the best men, when they have stood awhile under the observation of a critical
eye; but the Scripture hath been exposed to the view and censure of all sorts
of men, yet could never have the least impurity charged justly upon it.  It is so clean and pure, that it makes
filthy souls clean: ‘Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth,’ John 17:17.  That which is itself filthy may make
our clothes and bodies clean, but that which makes our souls pure and clean
must be itself without all defilement. 
And such is the Scripture. 
Nothing there that gratifies the flesh or affords fuel to any lust.  No, it puts every sin to the sword, and
strikes through the loins of all sinners great or small: ‘To be carnally minded
is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace,’ Rom. 8:6.  So that, as Athenagoras well said, ‘No
man can be wicked that is a Christian, unless he be a hypocrite.’  For the Scripture which he professeth
to be his rule of faith and life, will not allow him to embrace any doctrine
that is false, or practice that is filthy and unholy. This is that which
Christianity can alone glory in. 
The heathen were led into many abominations by their religion and gods
whom they worshipped.  No wonder they
were so beastly and sensual in their lives, when they served drunken and filthy
gods; and the very mysteries of their religion were so horribly unclean that
they durst not let them be commonly known, as having a scent too strong and
stinking to be endured by any that had not their senses quite stopped, and
their foolish minds, by the judgment of God upon them, wholly darkened.  But the Christian can charge none of
his sins upon his God—who tempteth none to evil, but hateth perfectly both the
work and also worker of iniquity; nor upon his Bible, which damns every sin to
the pit of hell, and all that liveth therein: ‘Tribulation and anguish, upon
every soul of man that doeth evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Gen­tile;
but glory, honour, and peace, to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first,
and also to the Gentile,’ Rom.
2:9, 10.  O who could be author of this blessed
book but the blessed God?  If any
creature made it, he was either a wicked creature or one that was holy.

           1.
No wicked creature could do it, neither angel nor man.  Surely they would never have taken so
much pains to pull down their own kingdom of dark­ness—the great plot which
runs through the Bible from one end of it to the other. And if it were the
birth of their brain, no doubt, as every one loves his own child, so would they
have shown more love to it than yet they have done.  The implacable wrath which the devil and his party of wicked
ones in the world have shown in all ages to the Scripture, declare sufficiently
that it never came from them.  No,
no, it cannot stand with the interest of unclean spirits or wicked men to
advance holiness in the world.  The
devil, though bold enough, durst never be so impu­dent as to lay claim to this
holy, heavenly piece.  But, if he
should, the glorious beauty of holiness which shines on the face of it, would
forbid any man in his wits to believe that black fiend to be the father of it. Naturalissimum
est opis omnis viventis generare sibi simile—it is natural for every
creature to beget his like.  And
what likeness there is betwixt light and darkness, it is easy to judge.

           2.
Neither can any holy creature be the author of it, be he angel or
man.  Can we think that any having
the least spark of love to God, or fear of his majesty dwelling their breast,
durst counterfeit his dreadful name by setting it to their work, and abuse the
world with such a blasphemy and prodigious lie, as to say, ‘Thus saith the
Lord,’ and prefix his name all along, when, not God but themselves are the
authors? Could this impudence and audacious wickedness proceed from any holy
angel or man?  Doubtless it could
not. Nay further, durst any holy creature put such a cheat upon the world, and
then denounce the wrath and vengeance of God against those who shall speak in
God’s name, but were never sent of him, as the Scrip­ture mentions?  Certainly, that earth which swallowed
up Korah and his ungodly rout, for pretending to an authority from God as good
as the priests’, to offer incense, would not have spared Moses himself if he had
spoke that in God’s name which he had not from him, but which was the invention
of his own private brain.  Thus we
see that no creature, good or bad, angel or man, can be the author of
Scripture.  So that none remains
but God to own it; which he hath done with miracles enough to convince a very
atheist of their divinity.

 

 

 

SECOND
GENERAL HEAD.

 

[Proof of the
divinity of the Scriptures

from
their supernatural effects.]

 

           The
second argument I shall choose to demon­strate the divine extraction of the
Scriptures, shall be taken from the supernatural effects they produce.
Nothing can be the cause of an effect higher or greater than itself.  If therefore we can find such effects
to be the product of the Scriptures, as are above the sphere of any creature’s
activity, it will then be evident that the Scripture itself is supernatural,
not the word of a mere creature, but of God himself.  What the psalm­ist saith of thunder, that loud voice of
nature from the clouds, we may apply to the voice of God speaking from heaven
in the Scripture, ‘It is a mighty voice and full of majesty; it breaketh
cedars’—kings and king­doms; ‘it divideth the flames of fire.’  The holy martyrs have with one bucket
of this spiritual water quenched the scorching flames of that furious ele­ment
into which their persecuting enemies have thrown them.  ‘It shaketh the wilderness’ of the wild
wicked world, making the stout hearts of the proudest sinners to tremble like
the leaves of the trees with the wind; and bringeth the pangs of the new‑birth
upon them whose hearts before never quailed for the most prodigious
crimes.  ‘It discovereth the
forests,’ and hunts sinners out of their thickets and refuges of lies, whither
they run to hide themselves from the hue and cry of divine vengeance.  But, to speak more particu­larly and
distinctly, there are four powerful and strange effects, which the word puts
forth upon the hearts of men; all which will evince its divine original. First. It hath a heart‑searching power,
whereby it ransacks and rifles the consciences of men.  Second.
It exercises a power on the conscience to convince and terrify it.  Third.
It has power to comfort and raise a dejected spirit.  Fourth. It hath
the power of conversion, which none but God can effect.

 

[The heart‑searching power of the word

attests to its divine
origin.]

 

           First Effect.  The word of God hath a heart-searching power, whereby it
ransacks and rifles the consciences of men.  It looks into the most secret transactions of the heart and
tells us what we do in our bed-chamber—as Elisha did by the king of Syria, II Kings 6:12.  It cometh where no prince’s warrant can
empower his officer to search, I mean the heart.  We read that Christ came to his disciples ‘when the doors
were shut, and stood in the midst of them,’ John 20:19.  Thus the word—when all doors are shut, that men have no
intelligence what passeth within the breasts of men—comes in upon the sinner
without asking him leave, and stands in the midst of his most secret plots and
counsels, there presenting itself to his view, and saith to him as Elisha to
Gehazi, ‘Went not my eye with thee when thou didst this and that?’  How often doth the sinner find his
heart discovered and laid out of all its folds by the word preached, as if the
minister had stood at his window, and seen him what he did within doors, or
some had come and told tales of him to the preacher?  Such I have known, that would not believe to the contrary,
but that the min­ister had been informed of their pranks, and so leveled his
discourse particularly at their breasts, when he hath been as ignorant of their
doings as of theirs that live in America, and only shot his reproofs like him
that smote Ahab, who drew his bow at a ven­ture, without taking aim at the
person of any.  From whence can
this property come but [from] God, who claims it as his own incommunicable
attribute, ‘I the Lord search the heart?’ Jer. 17:10.  God is in the word, and therefore it findeth the way to get
between the joints of the harness, though sent at random out of man's bow.  If any creature could have free ingress
into this retiring room of the heart, the devil, being a spirit, and of such a
piercing, prying eye, were the most likely to be he; yet even he is locked out
of this room, though indeed he can peep into the next.

           Now
if God can only search the heart, then the word which doth the same can come
from no other but God himself.  Who
indeed can make a key to this lock of the heart, but he that knoweth all the
wards of it?  Suppose you did lock
up a sum of money in a cabinet, and none but one in all the world besides
yourself besides yourself were privy to the secret place where you lay this
key.  If you then should find the
key taken away, and the cabinet opened and rifled, you would soon conclude
whose doing it was.  Why thus, when
you find your heart disclosed, and the secret thoughts therein laid open unto
you in the word, you may easily conclude that God is in it.  The key that doth this is of his making
who is the only one besides yourselves that is privy to the counsels of your
hearts, that seeth all the secret traverses of your in­ward man.  Who but he can send a spy so directly
to your hiding-place, where you have laid up your treasures of darkness out of
the world's sight?  There are two
secrets that the word discloseth:—

           First.  What a man’s own heart knoweth, and
no creature besides.  Thus
Christ told the woman of Sa­maria what her neighbours could not charge her
with; from which she concluded him to be a prophet—a man of God.  And may we not conclude the Scripture
to be the word of God, that doth the same?

           Second.  Those things which a man’s own heart
is not privy to.  God is said
to be ‘greater than our hearts, and knoweth all things,’ I John 3:20.  He knows more by us than we by
ourselves.  And doth not the word
dive to the bottom of the heart, and fetch up that filth thence, which the eye
of the conscience never had the sight of before, nor ever could without the
help of the word?  ‘I had not known
lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet,’ Rom. 7:7.  And if the word findeth that out which
escapeth the scrutiny of man’s own heart, doth it not prove a Deity to be in
it?  So argueth the apostle, I Cor. 14:25, speak­ing
of the power the word preached hath to lay open the heart: ‘Thus are the
secrets,’ saith he, ‘of his heart made manifest; and so, falling down on his
face, he will worship God, and report that God is in you of a truth.’

 

[The conscience‑touching power of the
word

attests its divine
origin.]

 

           Second Effect.  The second effect the Scrip­ture hath upon the spirits of
men, by which its divine pedigree may be proved, is the power it exerciseth
on the conscience to convince and terrify it.  Conscience is a castle that no batteries but what God raiseth
against it can shake.  No power can
command it to stoop but that which heaven and earth obey.  He that disarms the strong man must be
stronger than he.  He that masters
the conscience must be greater than it, and so God only is, I John 3:20[1].  Now the word being able to shake and
shatter this power of the soul, which disdaineth to stoop to any but God, must
needs be from him.  And that the
word exerts such a power upon the conscience who will doubt?  Do we not see it daily chastising the
proudest sinners, even to make them cry and whine under its convictions, like a
child under the rod?  Yea, doth it
not slay them outright, that they fall down dispirited at one thunder-clap of
the law let off by God upon them? 
‘When sin revived, I died,’ saith Paul.  He who before was a jolly man—as well provided in his own
opinion for his spiritual estate, as Job was for his outward, when he had his
flocks and herds, sons and daughters, health and prosperity, all as yet
untouched by the hand of God—upon him, it stripped his conscience as naked as
Job afterward was in his outward condition.  The man’s eyes are opened now to see how naked and void of
all holiness he is.  Yea his fair
skin of phar­isaical strictness, with the beauty of which he was formerly so
far in love as if he had been another Absalom, without mole or wart, he now
judgeth to be but odious deformity, and himself a most loathsome creature, by
reason of those plague-sores and ulcers that he sees running on him.  Yea, such power the word hath upon him,
that it laid him trembling over the bottomless pit, in a despair of himself and
his own righteousness.

           Hath
any creature an arm like this of the word? or can any book penned by the wit of
man command the heart to tremble at the rehearsal thereof, as this can do?  Even a Felix on the bench, when a poor
pris­oner preacheth this word at the bar to him, is put into a shaking
fit.  Who but a God could make
those monsters of men, that had paddled in the blood of Christ, and who had
scorned his doctrine so as to count the professors of it fools and idiots, yet
come affrighted in their own thoughts, at a secret prick given them in Peter’s
sermon, and cry out in the open assembly, ‘Men and brethren, what shall we do
to be saved?’  Doth not this carry
as visible a print of Deity, as when Moses clave the rock with a little rod in
his hand?

           Question.  But haply you will say, If there be
such a conscience-shaking power in the word, how comes it to pass, that many
notorious sinners sit so peaceably and sleep so soundly under it?  They read it at home, and hear it
preached powerfully in the public, yet are so far from feeling any such
earthquake in their consciences, that they remain senseless and stupid; yea,
can laugh at the preacher for his pains, and shake off all the threatenings
denounced, when sermon is done, as easily as the spaniel doth the water when he
comes out of the river.

           Answer
First.  I answer, many
sinners who seem so jocund in your eyes, have not such merry lives as you think
for.  A book may be fairly
bound and gild­ed, yet have but sad stories writ within it.  Sinners will not tell us all the secret
rebukes that conscience from the word gives them.  If you will judge of Herod by the jollity of his feast, you
may think he wanted no joy; but at another time we see that John’s ghost walked
in his conscience.  And so doth the
word haunt many a one, who to us appear to lay nothing to heart.  In the midst of their laughter their
heart is sad. You see the lightning in their face, but hear not the thunder
that rumbles in their conscience.

           Answer
Second.  It is enough, that the
word doth leave such an impression upon the conscience of any ‘though not of
all’ to prove its divinity.  One
affirma­tive testimony speaketh louder for the proof of a thing, than many
negatives do to the contrary.  The
word is not a physical instrument, but a moral, and works not by a virtue
inherent in it, but [by a] power impressed on it by the Spirit of God that
first indited it.  And this power
he putteth forth according to his own good pleasure; so that the same word sets
one man a trembling, and leaves another ‘in the same seat may be’ as little
moved by it as the pillar he leaneth on. 
Thus as two at a mill, so at a sermon, one is taken, and the other left;
one is humbled, and another hardened; not from any impotency in the word, but
[from the] freeness of God’s dispensing it. His message it shall do to him it
is sent, and none else.  It is as a
man strikes with a sword, back or edge, a strong or weak blow, that makes it
cut or not, gives a slight wound or deep. 
The word pierceth the con­science according to the force and divine
power that is impressed on it.  The
three children walked in the fire, and were not singed, others were consumed as
soon as they came within the scent of it. 
Shall we say, ‘That fire is not hot,’ because one was burned and the
other not?  Some, their consciences
do not so much as smell of the word, though the flames of the threatening fly
about their ears, others are set all on fire with the terrors of it.

           Answer
Third.  The senseless stupidity
of some under the stroke of the word, is not to be imputed to its impotency,
but to the just judgement of God, wherewith he plagueth them for sinning
against the convictions thereof. 
For commonly they are of that sort, whose consciences are so
impenetrable ‘the with­ering curse of God having lighted upon them’ that there
is no wonder their judgments are darkened and their consciences seared.  It was as great a mani­festation of
Christ’s power ‘and his disciples judged it so’ when with two or three words
the fig‑tree was blasted, as if he had caused it to spring and sprout when
withered and dry.  The power of God
is as great in hardening Pharaoh’s heart as in melting Josiah’s.

 

[The comforting power of the word

attests its divine
origin.]

 

           Third Effect.  The word of God hath a power to comfort and raise a
dejected spirit.  Conscience is
God’s prison in the creature’s own bosom, from whence none can have his
release, except by his war­rant that made the mittimus, and committed him
thither.  Indeed he is a weak
prince that hath no pris­on to commit offenders into but what another can break
open.  This, where God lays sinners
in chains, is not such.  ‘A wounded
spirit,’ saith Solomon, ‘who can bear?’ 
Yea, and who can cure?  If
any creature could, surely then the devils were as able as any to do it.  But we see they have not to this day
found the way to shake off those fetters which God keepeth them in; but lie
roaring under the unspeakable torment of God’s wrath.  And they who cannot cure their own wounds, are like to be
but poor physicians to help others. 
Indeed they acknowledge it beyond their skill and power: ‘Wherefore then
dost thou ask of me,’ said the devil to Saul, ‘seeing the Lord is departed from
thee, and is become thine enemy?’ I Sam. 28:16. The distress of an afflicted
conscience ariseth from the dismal sense of divine wrath for sin.  Now none can remove this but he that
can infallibly assure the soul of God’s pardoning mercy; and this lies so deep
in God's heart, that God alone ‘who only knoweth his own thoughts’ can be the
messenger to bring the news; and therefore the word which doth this can come
from none but him.  And, that is
able not only to do this, but also to fill the soul with ‘joy unspeak­able and
full of glory,’ is a truth so undoubted, that we need not ascend up to heaven
for further confirm­ation.  That
Spirit which first indited the word, hath sealed it to the hearts of
innumerable believers.

           Indeed
all the saints acknowledge their comfort and peace to be drawn out of these
wells of salvation. ‘In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy com­forts
delight my soul,’ Ps.
94:19.  Nay, he doth not only tell us his own
experience, whence he had his joy, but also to have had theirs from the same
tap.  ‘Fools, because of their
transgressions, are afflicted’ Ps 107:17. And what then can ease them?  Will all the rarities that can be got
by sea or land make a diversion to their thoughts, and ease them of their
pain?  No; for ‘their soul
abhorreth all manner of meat; and they draw near unto the gates of death,’ ver. 18.  What cor­dial then have they left to
use, or way to take for their relief? 
Truly none, but to betake themselves to prayers and tears, ‘Then they
cry unto the Lord in their trouble, and he saveth them out of their dis­tresses,’
ver. 19.  And with what key doth God open their
prison door?  It follows, ‘He sent
his word, and healed them,’ ver. 20. 
If you shall say all this is meant of outward trouble; yet surely you
must grant in holds more strong concerning that which is inward.  What but a word from God’s mouth can
heal a distres­sed spirit, when the body pineth and languisheth till God speaketh
a healing word unto it?

           Great
and mighty things are spoken of thee, and done by thee, O holy Word!  Thou outviest the world’s joy, and
makest the soul that hath but tasted thy ‘strong consolations’ presently to
disrelish all sen­sual delights, as flashy and frothy.  So pure and pow­erful is the light of
that joy which thou kindlest in the saint's bosom, that it quencheth all sinful
carnal joy with its beams, as the sun doth the fire on the hearth. Thou
conquerest the horror of death, that it is not feared.  Thou vanquishest the pains thereof,
that they are not felt.  Thou
treadest on scorpions and ser­pents, and they have no power to sting or hurt
those that believe in thee.  Devils
know thee, and flee be­fore thee, quitting, at sight of thee, their holds, and
leave those consciences which they had so long under their power and tyranny,
for thee to enter with thy sweet consolations.  Thou quenchest the flames of hell itself, and makest the
soul that even now was thrown bound by despair into the fiery furnace of God's
wrath, to walk comfortably and unsinged amidst the thoughts thereof.  Thou bringest heaven down to earth, and
givest the believing soul a prospect of that heavenly Jerusalem which is so far
off, as if he were walking in the blessed streets thereof; yea, thou
entertainest him with the same delicacies which glorified saints—though more
fully—feed on; so that sometimes he forgetteth he is in the body, even when
pains and torments are upon him. 
This have the saints experienced, and more than my pen or their own
tongue can express; so that we may say to him that yet questions whence the
Scriptures came, as the blind man cured by Christ did to the Pharisees, ‘this
is a marvellous thing,’ saith he, ‘that ye know not from whence he is, and yet
he hath opened mine eyes,’ John 9:30. 
So here, this is marvellous, yea ridicu­lous, to say we know not whence
the Scripture is, when it can do all this.  Since the world began was it not heard, that the word of a
mere creature could re­move mountains of despairs, and fill the souls of poor
sinners with such joy and peace, in spite of hell and the creature’s own
unbelief, under the weight of which, as a heavy gravestone, he lay buried and
sealed.

 

[The converting power of the word

attests its divine
origin.]

 

           Fourth Effect.  The word of God hath the power of conversion, which none
but God—who is the ‘God of all grace’—can produce.  When John’s disciples came to Christ to
be resolved who he was, whether the Messiah or not, Christ neither tells them
he was, or was not he; but sends them to take their answer from the marvellous
works he did.  ‘Go,’ saith he, ‘and
shew John again those things which ye do hear and see; the blind receive their
sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead
are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them,’ ,Û"((,8\.@<J"4—are gospel­lized,
Matt.
11:4, 5—that
is, they are transformed into the very nature of the gospel, and acted by the
spirit which breathes in the gospel. 
By all these instances Christ’s drift was to give an ocular
demonstration of their faith, that he, who did such miracles, could be no other
than he whom they sought.  And that
which brings up the rear, is the converting power of the word —not set last
because the least among them, but rather because it is the greatest wonder of
them all, and comprehends in it all the other.  When souls are converted, ‘the blind receive their
sight.’  You were ‘darkness,’ but
now ‘light in the Lord.’  ‘The lame
walk,’ in that the affections—the soul’s feet—are set at liberty, and receive
strength to run the ways of God with delight.  Lepers are cleansed, in that filthy lusts are cured, and
foul souls are sanctified.  And so
of the rest.  Now, though the
former miracles cease, yet this, which is the greatest, still accompanying the
word, affords such a demonstration of its divinity, as reason itself cannot
oppose.  Is it not beyond he skill
and strength of the mightiest angel to make the least pile of grass in the
field?  Much more the new creature
in the heart, the noblest of God’s works.

           That
therefore which doth thus new‑mould the heart, and make the creature as unlike
to his former self as the lamb is to the wolf, and the ox to the lion —the one
meek and harm­less, the other fierce and ravenous—that must needs be from
God.  And such changes are the
daily product of ‘the word.’  How
many have you known—once under the power of their lusts, throwing like madmen
their firebrands about, possessed with so many devils as sins, and hurried
hither and thither by these furies—yet at the hearing of one gospel sermon,
have you not seen them quite metamorphosed, and, with him in the gospel, out of
whom the devil was cast, sitting at Jesus’ feet in their right mind, bitterly
bewailing their former course, and hating their once beloved lusts, more than
ever they were fond of them?  I
hope some of you that read these lines can say thus much concerning yourselves,
as the apostle doth of himself and others of his brethren: ‘We ourselves were
also sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving di­vers lusts and
pleasures,’ &c.  ‘But after
that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared, he saved us,
by the washing of regenera­tion,’ &c., Titus 3:3, 4.  And can you, who are the very epistle of Christ, writ not
with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God, in the fleshly tables of your
hearts, stand yet in doubt whether that word came from God, which is thus able
to bring you home to God?  How long
might a man sit at the foot of a philosopher, before he should find such a
commanding power go forth with his lectures of morality, [as] to take away his
old heart, full of lusts as the sea is of creeping things innumerable, and put
a new and holy one in the room of it? 
Some indeed in their school have been a little refined from the dregs of
sensuality, as Polemo, who went a drunkard to hear Plato, and returned a
temperate man from his lecture; and no wonder, if we consider what violence
such broad and beastly sins offer to the very light of a natural con­science—that
lesser light appointed by God to rule the night of the heathen world.  But take the best philosopher of them
all, and you shall find sins that are of a little finer spinning—such as
spiritual wickednesses and heart‑sins are—that are acted behind the curtain in
the retiring room of the inner man. 
These were so far from being the spoils of their victorious arms, that
they could never come to the sight of them.  But ‘the word’ treads on these ‘high places’ of spiritual
wickednesses, and leaves not any stronghold of them untaken.  It pursues sin and Satan to their bogs
and fastnesses; it digs the sinner’s lusts like vermin out of their holes and
burrows, where they earth themselves. 
The heart itself is no safe sanctuary for sin to sit in. The word will
take it thence—as Joab from the horns of the altar—to slay it.  Those corruptions that escaped the
sword of the moralist and honest heathen, even these fall by the edge of the
word.

           I
cannot give a better instance of the converting power of the word, than by
presenting you with the miraculous victories obtained by it over the hearts of
men, when the apostles were sent out first to preach, the grace of Christ, and,
as it were, to begin the com­bination of the gospel ministry.  Wherever they came, they found the
world up in arms against them, and the black prince of it, the devil, at the
head of their troops, to make their utmost resistance against them; yet what
unheard‑of victories were got by them? 
Was it not strange that without drawing any other sword than ‘the
everlasting gospel,’ they should turn the world upside down, as their enemies
themselves con­fessed?—slighting the devil’s works, casting down his holds
wherever they came, and overcoming those bar­barous heathens whom the devil had
held in his peaceable possession so many thousand years!  To [make them] renounce their
idolatries in which they had been bred and trained up all their days; receive a
new Lord, and him a crucified Jesus; and this at the report of a few silly men,
loaden with the vilest re­proaches that the wit of man could invent, or malice
rake together, to besmear their persons, and render their doctrine they
preached odious to the world, this, I say, is such an unheard‑of conquest, as
could not be obtained by any less than the arm of the Almighty —especially if
we cast in two or three circumstances to give a further accent to the
heightening of this consideration. 
As,

           First
Circumstance.  The meanness
of the per­sons employed to preach this doctrine.  They were mean in their condition and rank, being of the
floor and lowest of the people, and many of them as mean in their intellectual
accomplishments as external port and garb in the world, having no help from
human learning to raise their parts, and set a varnish upon their
discourses.  Men very unfit for
such an enter­prise, God knows, had the stress and success of their works
depend on their own furniture. 
This put their very enemies to a stand, whence they had their wisdom,
knowing well how low their parentage and unsuitable their breeding were to give
them any advantage toward such a high undertaking, Acts 4:13. Surely
these poor men could contribute no more, by anything that was their own, to
that wonderful success which followed their labours, than the blowing of the rams'
horns could to the laying of Jericho’s walls flat with the ground, or the
sounding of Jehoshaphat’s musical instruments to the routing of so formidable
an army of his enemies; so that we must attribute it to the breath of God, by
which they sounded the trum­pet of the gospel, and his sweet Spirit charming
the hearts of his hearers, that such mighty works were done by them.

           Second
Circumstance.  If we consider
the nature of the doctrine they held forth and commended to the world,
which was not only strange and new—enough to make the hearers shy of it—but so
contrary to the humour of man’s corrupt nature, that it hath not one thought in
the sinner’s heart to befriend it. 
No won­der indeed, that Mahomet’s spiced cup went down so glib, it being
so luscious and pleasing to man’s carnal palate.  We are soon wooed to espouse that for truth which gratifies
the flesh, and easily persuaded to de­liver up ourselves into the hands of such
opinions as offer fair quarter to our lusts, yea, promise them sat­isfaction.  Indeed, we cannot much wonder to see
Christianity itself generally and readily embraced, when it is presented in
Rome’s whorish dress, with its purity adulterated, and its power emasculated.  But, take the doctrine of the gospel in
its own native excellency, before its falls into these hucksters’ hands, and it
is such as a carnal heart cannot like, because it lays the axe to the root of
every sin, and bids defiance to all that take part with it.  It will suffer no religion to set her
threshold by its.  This may make us
step aside—as Moses once to behold the bush—to see this great wonder—a doctrine
believed and embraced that is pure nonsense to carnal reason, teaching us to be
saved by another's righteousness, wise with another’s wisdom, to trust in him as
a God that was himself a child, to rely on him to deliver us from the power of
sin and Satan that fell himself under the wrath of men.  O how great a gulf of objections which
reason brings against this doctrine, must be shot before a man come to close
with it!  And yet this doctrine to
find such welcome, that never any prince at the beat of his drum had his
subjects flock more in throngs to list themselves in his muster‑roll, than the
apostles had multitudes of believers offering themselves to come under baptism—the
military oath given by them to their converts.  Add but one more.

           Third
Circumstance.  Consider how
little world­ly encouragement this word they preached gave to its disciples;
and you will say, ‘God was in it of a truth.’ Had it been the way to thrive in
the world to turn Christian, or had it won the favour of kings and prin­ces to
have been their disciple, and taught them how to climb the hill of honour, we
could not have won­dered to have seen so many to worship the rising sun. But,
alas! the gospel which they preached comes not with these bribes in its
hand.  No golden apples thrown in
the way to entice them on.  Christ
bids his disciples stoop not to take up crowns for their heads, but a cross for
their backs; ‘If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up
his cross, and follow me,’ Luke 9:23. 
They must not dream of getting the world’s treasure, which they have
not, but prepare to part with what they have.  To be sure, when the apostles preached it, the way it led to
was not to prin­ces’ palaces with their preferments, but have aimed at their
own honour, and pleased themselves with the renown that they should win by
their sufferings, and that their names should be writ and read in the leaves of
fame when they were dead and gone, some Roman spirit, haply, might have been
found to have endured as much.  Or,
if it had taught them that they should have ascended in their fiery chariot of
martyrdom, to receive heaven’s glory as the purchase of their pa­tience and
prowess, this might have hardened some popish shaveling against the fear of
those bloody deaths they met with. 
But the doctrine they preached allows neither, but teaches them when
they have done their best, and suffered the worst that their enemies’ wrath can
inflict for the cause of God, then to renounce the honour of all, and write
themselves unprofitable servants. 
All these considerations twist­ed together, make a strong cord to draw
any that have staggered in this particular to a firm belief of the divine
parentage of the Scriptures.

 

 

DIRECTION X.—SECOND
GENERAL PART.

 

[Why the word of God is called the Sword of the
Spirit.]

 

‘The sword
of the Spirit’  (Eph.
6:17).

 

           Having
despatched the first part, which presented us with the weapon itself, commended
to the Chris­tian’s use—i.e. ‘the word of God’—the second part of the
text now comes under our consideration, and that is the notion under which this
weapon is commended, or the metaphor in which it is sheathed—‘the sword of
the Spirit.’  And here a double
inquiry would be made.  First. Why the word of God is compared
to a ‘sword.’  Second. Why this sword is attributed to
the Spirit, and bears his name, ‘the sword of the Spirit.’

 

[Two inquiries as to the expression,

‘the sword of the
Spirit.’]

 

           First Inquiry.  Why is the word of God com­pared to a ‘sword?’  For this inquiry let this suffice. The
sword, being both of general and constant use among soldiers, and also that
weapon with which they not only defend themselves, but do the greatest exe­cution
upon their enemies, it most fitly sets forth the necessity and excellent use of
the word of God, by which the Christian both defends himself, and of­fends, yea
cuts down before him all his enemies.

           Second Inquiry.  Why is the sword attributed to ‘the
Spirit?’  Some take the abstract here
to be put for the concrete, B<,bµ" for B<,Lµ"J46ÎH, sword of
the Spirit for the spiritual sword, as if it were no more but ‘take the spir­itual
sword, which is the word of God,’ according to that of the apostle, ‘The
weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty’—that is, spiritual, II Cor. 10:4.  Indeed, Satan bring a spirit, must be
fought with spiritual arms.  And
such is the word, a spiritual sword. 
But this, though true, reach­eth not the full sense of the place, where B<,bµ" is taken personaliter—personally,
for the person of the Holy Spirit. 
And in these three respects the written word is the sword of the Spirit.

           First.  He is the Author of it.  A weapon it is which his hand alone
formed and fashioned; it came not out of any creature’s forge, ‘holy men of God
spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost,’ II Peter 1:21.

           Second.  The Spirit is the only true interpreter
of the word.  Hence that known
passage of Bernard: quo spiritu factæ sunt Scripturæ, eo spiritu legi desi­derant,
ipso etiam intelligendæ sunt—the Scriptures must be read, and can be
understood, by that Spirit alone by whom they were made.  He that made the lock can alone help us
to a key that will fit its wards and open its fence.  ‘No prophecy of the scripture is of private interpretation,’
II Peter
1:20.  And why not? It follows—because it came
not from any private spir­it at first. 
‘For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man,’ &c., ver. 21.  And who knows the mind of the Spirit so
well as himself?

           Third.  It is only the Spirit of God can give
the word its efficacy and power in the soul.  It is his of­fice, as I said, sigillare animum charactere
rerum creditarum—to seal the soul with the impress of things believed.  Except he lays his weight on the truths
we read and hear, to apply them close, and as it were cut the very image in our
minds and hearts, they leave no more impression than a seal set upon a stone or
rock would do;—still the mind fluctuates, and the heart is unsatisfied,
notwithstanding our own and others' utmost endeavours to the contrary.  It was not the disciples’ rowing, but
Christ’s coming, that could lay the storm or bring them to shore.  Not all our study and inquiry can fix
the mind, or pacify the heart in the belief of the word, till the Spirit of God
comes.  ‘Do you now believe?’ saith
Christ to his disciples, John
16:31.  How oft, alas! had the same things
sounded in their ears, and knocked at their door for entertainment, but never
could be received, till now that the Spirit put in his finger to lift up the
latch!  B. Davenant on Colossians
tells us a story out of Gerson, concerning a holy man whom himself knew to be
sadly beaten and buffeted with frequent doubts and scruples, even so as to call
into question an article of faith, but afterward was brought into so clear a
light and full evidence of its truth, that he doubted no more of it than of his
own being alive. And this certainty, saith Gerson, did not arise ex nova
aliquâ ratione et demonstratione, sed ex humilia­tione, et captivitate
intellectûs, atque admirabili quadam Dei illuminatione à montibus æternis—did
not come from any new argument he had found out to demonstrate the truth of it,
but from the Spirit of God humbling and captivating his proud understand­ing,
and admirably irradiating the same. 
The words thus opened present us with this important doctrinal
conclusion.

 

[The written word is the sword by

which the Christians
overcome.]

 

           Doctrine.  That the written word, or if you will, the
Scripture, is the sword by which the Spirit of God enables his saints to
overcome all their enemies. The Spirit will do nothing for them without the
word, and they can do nothing to purpose without him. The word is the sword,
and the Spirit of Christ the arm which wields it in for the saints.  All the great con­quests which Christ
and his saints achieve in the world are got with this sword.  When Christ comes forth against his
enemies, this sword is girded on his thigh, ‘Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O
most mighty,’ Ps.
45:3.  His victory over them too is ascribed
to it, ver.
4,
‘And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth,’—that is, the word of
truth.  We find, Rev. 1:6, Christ
holding ‘seven stars in his right hand,’ intimating the choice care he hath
over his people, particularly the ministers, who are more shot at than any
other.  And how doth he protect
them, but by this ‘sharp two‑edged sword coming out of his mouth?’  This is the great privilege which the
poorest believer in the church hath by the covenant of grace —such a one as
Adam had not in the first covenant. He, when fallen, had a flaming sword to
keep him out of paradise, but had no such sword, when innocent, to keep him
from sinning, and so from being turned out of that happy place and state.  No, he was left to stand upon his own
defence, and by his own vigilancy to be a lifeguard to himself.  But now the word of God stands between
the saints and all danger.  This
will the better appear if we single out the chief ene­mies with whom the
saint's war is waged, and show how they all fall before the word, and receive
their fatal blow from this one sword, as Abimelech slew the threescore sons of
Jerubbaal ‘upon one stone,’ Judges 9:5. 
First. The bloody persecutor who breathes slaughter against the
saints, and pursues them with fire and faggot.  Second. The seducer and heretic. Third. Our
own lusts.  Fourth. An army
of afflictions, both outward and inward.

 

[Persecutors are overcome by ‘the word
of God.’]

 

           First
Enemy. The bloody persecutor, who breathes slaugh­ter against the
saints, and pursues them with fire and faggot.  Such a race of giants there ever was, and will be as long as
the devil hath any kindred alive in the world, who, when it lies in their
power, to maintain their father’s kingdom of dark­ness, will not fear to
trample under their feet those stars of heaven whose light acquaints the world
with their horrid impieties, and so hazards the weakening of the devil's
interest in the minds of men.  Hence
those bloody wars raised, cruel fires of martyrdom kindled, and massacres
practised on the saints—with many devilishly witty inventions of torments, that
these innocent souls might linger in their pains, and stay the longer in the
jaws of death, thereby to ‘feel themselves to die,’ as one of them barbarously
and inhumanly said!  Well, what
ladders doth God use to scale these mountains of pride?  Where are the weap­ons with which the
people of God resist and over­come these monsters of men that thus defy the
Lord and his hosts?  Wouldst thou
know where?  Truly, they are to be
seen in the tower of David, builded for an armoury—the word of God, I
mean.  Here hang the shields and
bucklers, the swords and darts, by which the worthies of God have in all ages
defended themselves stoutly against the rage of persecutors, and also triumphed
gloriously over their greatest force and power. Out of this ‘brook’ they take
those ‘smooth stones’ by which they prostrate these Goliaths.  This sort of the church’s enemies are
overcome two ways: —either by their conversion or destruction.  Now, the word of God is the sword that
effects both.  It hath two edges, Heb. 4:12, and so
cuts both sides.

           1.
Way.  The sword of the
Spirit hath applica­tion to the elect, who, for a time, through ignorance
and prejudice, are joined with the saints’ enemies, as busy sticklers and
bloody persecutors as the worst of the pack.  The word of God is a sacrificing knife, to rip open their
hearts, and let out the hot putrefied blood of their sins, which made them so
mad against the church of God, yea, and to prepare them also, by converting
grace, as an offering acceptable unto God, as the apostle excellently showeth, Rom. 15:16.  Thus the murderers of our blessed Lord,
we find them by one sermon of Peter so strongly wrought upon that they
presently vomit up his blood, as sick of it as ever they were for it, and, at
one prick that the point of this sword gave them, crying for quarter at God’s
hands, yea throwing down their persecuting arms, and most freely entering their
names into his muster‑roll, whose life but a few days before they had so
cruelly taken away, about three thousand of them at one clip being baptized in
his name, Acts
2:41.  Yea, Paul him­self, whom I may call, as
Erasmus doth Augustine, before his conversion, ‘the great whale,’ that did so
much mischief to the church of Christ, what hook did he use to strike him with
but the word?  Never had Christ a
more furious enemy in the world than this man.  His heart was so inflamed with a rage against the saints,
that the fiery steam thereof came out of his lips, as from the mouth of a hot
furnace, breathing slaughter against them wherever he went, Acts 9:1. Now what
force of arms, besides the word preached, did Christ send to take in the castle
of this bloody man’s heart? First. 
Christ himself took him immedi­ately to task, preaching such a
thundering sermon from his heavenly pulpit, as dismounted this proud rider, and
sent him bound in the fetters of his own troubled soul, prisoner even to that
place where he thought to have clapped up others, and then left his
Spirit to carry on the work of his conversion, by ap­plying and keeping the
plaster of the word close to his heart. 
How powerfully this wrought on him he him­self tells us, ‘When the
commandment came, sin re­vived, and I died,’ Rom. 7:9.  That is, when the law came by the convictions of the Spirit
to rake in his soul, and pierce his conscience, then sin revived those lusts
which like a sleepy lion slumbered in him.  Now, however, in his awakened conscience they roared so
dreadfully that he was as it were struck dead with the terror of them as a poor
damned creature; and would have undoubtedly gone away in that swoon of horror
and despair, had not the joyful news of gospel grace been by the same word and
Spirit applied seasonably, to bring him to the life of hope and comfort again.
Thus was this boisterous furious enemy of the saints chained and tamed by the
terrors of the law, changed and renewed by the gentleness and mercy of the gos­pel,
and he became no more like himself than a rav­ening wolf is to the innocent
lamb, more ready to lay down his own life now for the defence of the gospel,
than before conversion to take away their lives that professed it.

           2.
Way.  The sword of the
Spirit hath applica­tion to the saints’ persecuting enemies, when ruined and
destroyed.  Indeed, if they
continue impenitent, and harden themselves against the truths and servants of
God, that is the end they must all look to come to. They are like ravenous
beasts—‘made to be taken and destroyed,’ II Peter 2:12, and they may know be­forehand, as
the certainty of their ruin, so what shall procure it, and that is the word of
God.  ‘And if any man will hurt
them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies: and if
any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed,’ Rev. 11:5.  It is spoken of those that shall dare
to oppose and persecute the faithful preachers of the gospel —that fire comes
out of their mouths to destroy them. 
Though they have their will on the bodies of the saints, butchering and
burning them, yet the word they preach will be their destruction.  That lives and stays behind, to pay the
saints’ debts and avenge them on their enemies.  God is resolved they must and shall in this manner be
killed, the word must give them the fatal stroke.  Julian confessed as much, when bleeding under his deadly
wound, though the arrow came out of a Persian bow, yet the wretch knew it was
sent by a higher than a Persian hand, vicisti Galileæ—O Galilean, thou
hast overcome and been too hard for me. 
His conscience told him that his spite against the truth of Christ was
his death; and many more besides him have acknowledged as much when under the
hand of justice.  The face of the
word of God which they have opposed, hath appeared to them as engraven upon
their judgments.

           O
this sword of the word, it hath a long reach; it is at the breast of every
enemy God and his saints hath in the world, and though at present they cannot
see whence their danger should come (they are so great and powerful, so safe
and secure, as they think), yet the word of God having set down their doom
already, God will sooner or later open one door or other to let in their
destruction upon them.  When the
prophet would express the indubitable ruin of the Philistines impending, mark
what prognostics he gives, ‘Woe unto the inhabitants of the sea coast,... the
word of the Lord is against you,’ Zeph. 2:5.  As if he had said, You are a lost undone people; the whole
world cannot save you; for ‘the word of the Lord is against you.’  The threatening of the word, like
lightning or mildew, blasts wherever it goes, and its curse burns to the very
root.  Hence all the seven na­tions
of Canaan fell into the mouth of the Israelites like ripe fruit into the mouth
of him that shakes the tree.  The
word of the Lord cursing them, had gone before them to make their conquest
certain and easy. This Balak knew, and therefore would have given so much for a
few words out of Balaam’s mouth to have cursed Israel in God’s name.  The truth is, though we look upon the
monarchs of the world, and their armies, as those which have the sway of the
affairs of the world, yet these are no more than the fly on the wheel.  It is the word of God that hath the
great stroke in all that is done on the world's stage.  ‘I have set thee over the nations and
over the kingdoms, to root out, and to pull down,...to build, and to plant,’ Jer. 1:10.  Indeed, the whole earth is God’s
ground; and who hath power to build on his ground, or pull down, but
himself?  And in his word he hath
given his mind what he will have done to his enemies, and for his saints, and
therefore all the mercies they have, they receive and acknowledge them as
gracious per­formances of the promise, so all the judgments executed on all
their enemies as accomplishments of the threatenings of the word, called
therefore ‘the judgment written,’ Ps. 149:9.

 

[Heretics are overcome by the ‘word of
God.’]

 

           Second
Enemy.  The seducer is
another enemy the Christian hath to cope with, and no less danger­ous than
the other: nay, in this respect, far more formidable—the persecutor can kill
only the body, but the seducer comes to poison the soul.  Better to be slain outright by his
sword, than to be ‘taken alive,’ as the apostle phraseth it, ‘in this snare of
the devil,’ which these whom he sends forth abirding for souls privily lay,
even where they are oft least suspected. When Paul fell into the mouth of the
persecutor, he could yet glory, and rejoice that he had escaped the latter: ‘I
have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith:
henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness,’ II Tim. 4:7, 8.  See how this holy man triumphs and
flourisheth his colours, as if the field were fought and the day won; whereas,
good man, he was now going to lay his head on the block under the hand of
bloody Nero’s headsman, as you may perceive, ‘I am now ready to be offered up,’
ver. 6, alluding
to the kind of death, it is like, he was shortly to undergo.  But you will pos­sibly say, What great
cause had he then to cry victoria —victory, when his affairs were in
such a desperate and deplored condition? 
Yes, this made him tri­umph, he had ‘kept the faith;’ and that was a
thousand times more joy and comfort to him than the laying down his life was
trouble.  If he had left the faith
by cowardice, or chopped it away for any false doctrine, he had lost his soul
by losing of that; but having kept the faith, he knew that he did but part with
his life to receive a better at God’s hands than was taken from him by
man’s.  The locusts men­tioned, Rev. 9—which Mr.
Mede takes to be the Sara­cens, who were so great a scourge and plague to the
Roman world, newly Christianized—we find ‘they had tails like unto scorpions,
and their were stings in their tails,’ ver. 10: which the learned writer fore-named
interprets to be the cursed Mahometan doctrine with which they poisoned the
souls of the people wherever their conquering sword came.

           It
seems, though the sword of war in the hand of a barbarous bloody enemy be a
heavy judgment to a people, yet the propagation of cursed errors is a
greater.  This is the ‘sting in the
tail’ of that judgment. I do not doubt but many that were godly might fall by
the sword of that enemy in such a general calamity, but only those that were
not among God's sealed ones felt the sting in their tail by being poisoned with
their cursed imposture; and therefore they alone are said to be ‘hurt’ by them,
ver. 4.  We may be cut off by an enemy’s sword
and not be hurt; but we cannot drink in their false doctrine, and say so.  Now, the word of God is the sword
whereby the Spirit enables the saints to defend themselves against this enemy;
yea, to rout and ruin this subtle band of Satan.  We read of Apollos, Acts 18:28, that ‘he mightily convinced the
Jews.’  He did, as it were, knock
them down with the weight of his reasoning.  And out of what armoury fetched he the sword with which he
so prevailed?  See ver. 28.  ‘Showing by the Scriptures’—not their
cabala —‘that Jesus was Christ;’ and therefore he is said to be 'mighty in the
Scriptures,’ ver.
24,
a mighty man of valour, and so expert, through his excellent knowl­edge in
them, that the erroneous Jews could no more stand before him holding this sword
in his hand, than a child with a wooden dagger can against a giant formidably
armed with killing weapons.

           When
Paul warns Timothy to stand upon his defence carefully against seducers, which
snapped so many everywhere, he can devise no better counsel how he might keep
out of their hands, than by sending him to the Scriptures, and bidding him shut
himself up within these, as in a town of war. ‘But con­tinue thou in the things
which thou hast learned,’ II
Tim. 3:14;
and in the next verse he opens himself, and shows what lesson he means that he
had learned, by telling him, that from a child he had known the holy
Scriptures, which were able to make him wise unto salvation; and by
consequence, wiser than all his ene­mies, if he stuck close to them.  Other arms we may load ourselves with,
by tumbling over many authors; but he that hath this sword, and hath been but
taught of the Spirit the use of this weapon, is provided well enough to meet
the stoutest champions for error the devil hath on his side, in an encounter.  With this, poor women have been able to
disarm great doctors of their studied arguments, ruffling all their art and
logic with one plain place of Scripture, as she who brained Abimelech, that
great commander, by tum­bling a piece of millstone on his head.  Out of this ar­moury came those weapons
Paul tells us are so ‘mighty through God, casting down imaginations,’ or
reasonings, 8T(4Fµ@×H 6"2"4D@Ø<J,H, by which
an ancient will have the Greek Philosophers’ syllogisms to be meant.  Indeed, he that hath the word on his
side, and a holy skill to use it, hath as much advan­tage of his adversary that
comes with other armour —let him be never so good a fencer—as a man with a good
sword hath over him that comes forth only with a bulrush in his hand.

           All
error dreads the light of the word, and fears more to be examined by that, than
a thief does to be tried before a strict judge.  Hereticorum sententias prodidisse est superasse—to
have expounded the doctrines of heretics is to have overcome them, saith
Hieron.  Unfold them, or bring them
and the word face to face, and, like Cain, they hang down their head; they are
put to shame.  This is the only
certain ordeal to try suspected opinions at.  If they can walk upon this fiery law unhurt, unreproved,
they may safely pass for truths, and none else.  Paul tell us of some that ‘will not endure sound doc­trine,’
II Tim.
4:3.
Alas! how should they, when their minds are not sound?  It is too searching for them.  Gouty feet can­not go but on soft way
that gently yields to them. Such must have doctrine that will comply with their
humour, which the word will not do, but rather judge them, and this they think
it will do too soon at the great day; therefore now they shun it so much, lest
it should torment them before their time. 
Thus the Quakers, they have their skulking hole to which they run from
the Scripture, at whose bar they know their opinions would be cast undoubtedly,
and therefore [they] appeal to another where they may have a more favourable
hearing—the light within them, or, in plain English, their natural conscience;
a judge which is known too well to be corrupt and easily bribed to speak what
the lusts of men will oft have him do. 
Ah, poor creatures, what a sad change they have made!—to leave the word
that is 6"<ã< J0H B\FJ,TH •684¬H, an
inflexible rule of faith, and can no more lie or deceive them than God himself
can do—to trust the guidance of themselves to themselves, a more ignorant,
sottish, unfaithful guide than which the devil could not have chosen for them.  ‘He that is his own teacher,’ saith
Bernard, ‘is sure to have a fool for his master.’  And Solomon, yea a greater then Solomon, God himself by
Solomon, saith, ‘The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that
hearken­eth unto counsel is wise,’ Prov. 12:15.  But he is most wise that makes the word of God the man of
his counsel.  The Papist he hath
his thicket and wood also—antiquity and traditions—to which he flees before the
face of the Scripture for sanctuary, as Adam did to a bush when God came
walking to him. As if any antiquity were so authentic as God’s own oracles; and
any traditions of men to be laid in the balance with the Scripture.

           To
name no more, the Socinian, he folds up himself in his own proud reason, and
takes such state on him, that the Scripture must come to that to be sensed, and
not that stoop to it.  He must have
a re­ligion and Scripture that fits the model his own reason draws, or [he]
will have neither.  This forms the
root of many prodigious errors and heretics; like those of whom Tertullian speaks,
qui Platonicum et Aristotelicum Christianismum procuderunt—who went to
the philosopher’s forge to shape a Christian­ity.  What is this but to carry gold to be weighed at the
chandler’s scales, and to look for the sun by the light of the moon.  A modern divine saith, ‘Most heresies
have sprung either ex Samo Satani fastu, vel ex Ætii ignorantiâ, vel ex
Arrii dialectiâ—from pride, Aetian ignorance, or the Arian sophistry of
reason’—the last of which seems to be the shelf on which Paul himself observes
some to have split, ‘and to have erred con­cerning the faith,’ I Tim. 6:21; and
therefore so affectionately exhorts Timothy to keep off this dan­gerous shore,
and steer his course by the word, ‘O Timothy, keep that which is committed to
thy trust,’ &c., ver.
20.  For this which is here committed to
him, I take for no other than ‘the form of sound words’ he exhorts him to hold
fast in II Tim. 1:13.

           Objection.  But we see heretics quote Scripture for
their most prodigious errors, and draw this sword for their defence, as well as
the orthodox; how then is it such a powerful instru­ment and engine against
error?

           Answer.  What will not men of subtle heads,
corrupt hearts, and bold faces, dare to do for the car­rying on their wicked
party, when once they have es­poused an error or any sinful way?  Korah and his un­godly company dare
give out that ‘the Lord is among them,’ and they have as much to do with the
priest­hood as Aaron himself, on whom the holy oil was poured, Num. 16:3.  And Zedekiah, that arch‑flatterer,
fears not to father his lie on the God of truth himself. He ‘made him horns of
iron: and he said, Thus saith the Lord, With these shalt thou push the Syrians,
until thou have consumed them,’ I Kings 22:11; whereas God never spake such a word.  It is no marvel then, to see any lay
their bastard brats at God’s door, and cry they have Scripture on their
side.  By this impu­dence they may
abuse credulous souls into a belief of what they say, as a cheater may pick the
purses of ignorant people by showing them something like the king’s broad seal,
which was indeed his own forgery. Yea, God may suffer them to seduce others of
more raised parts and understanding, as a just judgment on them for rebelling
against the light of their own consciences.  As Pharaoh, by the false miracles of the magicians, was set
off further from any compliance with Moses.  And those of the antichristian faction, who ‘because they
received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved, and for this
cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie,’ II Thes. 2:10, 11.  But sincere souls that search humbly
for the truth, and have no other designs in their inquiry after it but that
they may know the will of God and obey it, shall find on their faithful prayers
to God, a light most clear shining from the Scripture, to guide them safe from
those pitfalls of damning er­rors into which others fall, towards whom the dark
side of this cloud stands.  ‘The
fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they
that do his commandments: Ps.
111:10.  The fox, they say, when hard put to it,
will fall in subtly with the dogs and hunt with them as one of their company,
but even then his strong scent, which he cannot leave behind him, bewrays him.

           Thus
heretics, for to shelter their errors, will crowd in among Scripture truths,
and by their fair col­ours and false glosses, make them seem to be of their
company, but they cannot so perfume their rotten opinions but their rank scent
and savour will be smelt and discerned by those who have their senses exer­cised.  Never any heretic got by appealing to
the Scriptures.  What Christ saith
in another case, ‘All they that take the sword shall perish with the sword,’ Matt. 26:52, is most
true of all heretics.  They are con­founded
and confuted by that very sword of the word which they lift up to defend them
withal.

 

[Corruptions and lusts are overcome

by the ‘word of
God.’]

 

           Third
Enemy.  Our own lusts make
the next ad­versary we have to grapple with.  Thus the further we go the worse the enemy we meet.  These are more for­midable than both
the former, partly because they are within us—men of our own house, lusts of
our own bosom that rise up against us, and partly because they hold
correspondence with a foreign foe also—the devil himself—who, as he did beat
man at first with his own rib, so he continues to do us the worst mis­chief
with our own flesh.  The fire of
lust is ours, but the flame commonly is his, because his temptations are the
bellows that blow it up.  And when
such a fire meets with such a strong wind to spread and carry it on its wings,
whither will it fly?  O how hard to
slake and quench it!  A whole
legion of devils are as soon cast out of the body, as one lust out of the soul;
yea, sooner.  Satan likes his
lodging better in the heart than in the house, and is loather out.  He came more willing out of the man
into the swine, Matt.
8:31,
be­cause by coming out of his body, and contenting himself a while with a
meaner house—the swine I mean—he hoped for a fairer way thereby to get fuller
possession of their souls; which indeed he obtained, Christ leaving them most
justly to his rule that were so soon weary of his sweet company.  Now the word is the only weapon.  Like Goliath’s sword, none to this for
the hewing down and cutting off this stubborn enemy.  The word of God can master our lusts when they are in their
ruff[2] and
pride.  If ever lust rageth more
than other, it is when youthful blood boils in our veins.  Youth is heady, and lust then hot and
im­petuous.  Our sun is climbing
higher still, and we think it a great while to night; so that it must be a
strong arm that brings a young man off his lusts, who hath his palate at best
advantage to taste sensual pleasures with; the vigour of his strength to take
in more of the delights of the flesh than crippled age can do, and further from
fear of death’s gunshot (as he thinks) than old men, who are upon the very marches
of the grave, and carry the scent of the earth about them into which they are
sure suddenly to be re­solved. 
Well, let the sword of God meet this young gallant in all his bravery,
with his feast of sensual delights before him, and but whisper a few syllables
in his ear, give his conscience but a prick with the point of its sword, and it
shall make him flee in as great haste from them all, as Absalom's brethren did
from their feast, when they saw their brother Amnon mur­dered at the table.

           When
David would give the young man a receipt to cure him of his lusts—not one, but
all—how he may cleanse his whole course and way, he bids him only wash in this
Jordan, Ps.
119.9.  By what means or ‘wherewithal shall a
young man cleanse his way?  By
taking heed thereto according to thy word?’  It is called ‘the rod of his strength,’ Ps 110:2.  God, we know, wrought those great
miracles, whereby he plagued the Egyptians and saved the Israelites, with the
rod in Moses’ hand.  By that he
tamed proud Pharaoh, making him and his people at last to let go their hold of
the Israelites, yea, in a manner, to thrust them out from them, and be as glad
of their room as before they were of their company.  By that he di­vided the sea for Israel’s passage, and
covered the Egyptians in its waves. 
By that he smote the rock. 
And by this rod of his word he doth as great wonders in the souls of men
as these.  By this he smites their
consciences, cleaves the rocks of their hard hearts, divides the waves of their
lusts, and brings poor sin­ners from under the power of sin and Satan.

           Never
could Austin get a jail‑delivery from his lusts till he heard that voice, tolle
lege, tolle lege —take, read; upon which, as himself tells us (Lib. Confess. 8), he
presently took up the Bible, and that one place, Rom. 13, to which his eye was directed, once
read, like a mighty earthquake did so shake all the powers of his soul that the
prison doors of his heart immediately flew open, and those chains of lusts
which, with all his skill and strength, he could never file off, did now on a
sudden fall off, and he became so strangely metamorphosed, that quas
amittere metus erat, jam dimittere gaudium fuit—those lusts, to lose which
was one all his fear, now to pack them away was his joy.  Never man, by his own confession, was
more slave to his lusts, and tied with a stronger chain of delight to them,
than himself was.  He did, as he
saith, volutare in cæno tanquam cinamonis et unguentis pretiosis—he
tumbled in the puddle of his filthy lusts with as much delight as if he had
been rolling in a bed of spices, and anointing himself with the most precious
ointments; yet this one word came with such a commanding power to him, that it
tore them out of his very heart, and turned his love into a cordial hatred of
them, who before would have let his heart sooner been plucked out of his bosom
than these taken out of his heart. 
And as the word is the weapon by which he, with a strong hand, brings
poor sinners out of the power of Satan and sin into a state of freedom, so he useth
it to defend his saints from all after‑storms of temptations, by which Satan,
now thrown out of his kingdom, endeavours to recover the same.  Those kingdoms indeed that are got by
the sword must be kept by the sword. David will tell us how he stood upon his
guard, and made good his ground, against this enemy.  ‘Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have
kept me from the paths of the destroyer,’ Ps. 17:4.  As if he had said, ‘Would you know how it comes to pass that
I escape those ungodly works and practices which men ordin­arily take liberty
to do?  I must ascribe it to the
good word of God.  It is this I
consult with, and by am kept from those foul ways whereinto others, that make
no use of the word for their defence, are carried by Satan, the destroyer of
mankind.’

           Can
we go against sin and Satan with a better weapon than Christ used to vanquish
the tempter with?  And certainly
Christ did it per modum exempli —by way of example, to set us an example
how we should come armed into the field against them; for Christ could with one
beam shot from his Deity (if he had pleased to exert it), have as easily laid
the bold fiend prostrate at his foot, as afterwards he did them that came to
attach him; but he chose rather to con­ceal the majesty of his divinity, and
let Satan come up closer to him, that so he might confound him with the word,
and thereby give a proof of that sword to his saints which he was to leave with
them for their de­fence against the same enemy.  The devil is set out by the ‘leviathan,’ Isa. 27:1, him God
threatens to punish with his ‘strong sword;’ alluding to that great fish, the
whale, which fears no fish like the sword‑fish, [and] by whom this great
devourer of all other fish is oft killed; for, receiving one prick from his
sword, he hasteth to the shore, and beats himself against it till he dies.  Thus the devil, the great devourer of
souls, who sports himself in the sea of this world, even as the leviathan in
the waters, and swallows the greatest part of mankind without any power to make
resis­tance against him, is himself vanquished by the word. When he hath to do
with a saint armed with this sword, and instructed how to use this weapon, he
then, and not till then, meets his match.

 

[Afflictions, outward and inward, are
overcome

by the ‘word of
God.’]

 

           Fourth
Enemy.  A fourth enemy that
meets the Christian, is an army made up of many bands of af­flictions, both
outward and inward, sometimes one, sometimes another, yea, of a whole body
of them pouring their shot together upon them.  This was Paul’s case, ‘without were fightings, within were
fears,’ II
Cor. 7:5.  He endured a great fight of external
afflic­tions and buffetings within his own bosom at once. And that is sad
indeed, when a city is on fire within at the same time that an enemy is
battering its walls from without. 
Yet this is oft the condition of the best saints, to have both the rod
on their backs, and rebukes from God in their spirits, at once. ‘When thou with
rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away
like a moth,’ Ps.
39:11.

           God
sometimes corrects with outward crosses, but smiles with inward manifestations;
and then he whips them, as I may so say, with a rosemary rod. The one sweetens
and alleviates the other.  At
another time he sends a cross, and incloseth a frown in it.  He whips with outward affliction, and,
as an an­gry father, every lash he gives his child, tells him, ‘this is for
that fault, and that for this,’ which exceedingly adds to the smart of the
correction, and is the very knot on the whip, to see his father so much dis­pleased
with him.  And when the poor
Christian lies thus under the hand of an afflicting God, or under the rebukes
of a frowning God, Satan will not be long from the Christian, or wanting to throw
his salt and vinegar into the wounds that God hath made in his flesh or spirit,
thereby to increase his dolour, and so lead him further into temptation one way
or other, if he can have his will. 
Indeed, God often sends so many troops of various afflictions to quarter
upon some one Christian, that it puts him hard to it to bid them all welcome,
and entertain them with patience; yea, it would pose any one—that knows not
what service the word of God doth the Christian, and the supplies it brings him
in—to conceive how his spirit should be kept, and his faith from being eaten
up, and swallowed into despair by them. 
But the word of God, this bears all the charge he is at.  This is his counsellor and
comforter.  David tells us plainly
his heart had died within him but for it: ‘Unless thy law had been my delights,
I should then have perished in mine affliction,’ Ps. 119:92.  The word was his spiritual Abishag,
from which his soul got all its warmth. 
All the world’s enjoyments heaped on him would have left him cold at
heart if this had not lain in his bosom to bring him a kindly heat of inward
peace and com­fort: ‘This is my comfort in my affliction: for thy word hath
quickened me,’ ver.
50.  Not the crown in hope —for some think
it was not, when this psalm was penned, on his head—but the word in his heart,
to which he was beholden for his comfort. 
A word of promise is more necessary at such a time to a poor soul, than
warm clothes are to the body in cold weather.

           When
Adam was thrust naked out of paradise into the cold blasts of a miserable
world—where, from his own guilty conscience within, and crosses without, he was
sure to meet with trouble enough —then God gave him a word of promise, as you
may observe, to fence his soul, before he taught him to make coats to clothe
his body, Gen.
3:15, compared with ver. 21. 
The Lord knew full well how indispensably necessary a word of promise
was to keep him from being made a prey the second time to the devil, and from
being swallowed up with the dismal sight of those miseries and sorrows in which
he had thrown himself and posterity; and therefore, he would not suffer him to
lie open to the shock of their assaults one day, but presently puts the sword
of a promise in­to his hand, that with it he might defend and comfort his
sorrowful heart in the midst of all his troubles.  It was the speech of a holy man, after God had made that
sweet place: ‘Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden,’ &c., Matt. 11:28, the
messenger to open his dungeon of soul‑trouble, and bring him into the light of
inward joy—‘that he had better be without meat, drink, light, air, earth, life,
and all, than with­out this one comfortable scripture.’  If one single promise, like an ear of
corn rubbed in the hand of faith, and applied by the Spirit of Christ, can
afford such a full satisfying meal of joy to a hunger‑bitten, pining soul, O
what price can we set on the whole field of the Scripture, which stands so
thick with promises, every way as cordial as this!

           Love
is witty, and sets the head on work to de­vise names for the person we love
dearly—such names as may at once express how highly we prize them, and also yet
more endear them to us by car­rying on them the superscription of that
sweetness which we conceive to be in them.  Thus many holy persons have commended the promises to us
with their appreciating names—the saints’ legacies—the breasts of God full of
milk of grace and comfort—the saints’ plank to swim upon to heaven.  Indeed, we might rob the world of all
her jewels, and justly hang them on the ear of the promise; apply all the excel­lencies
she boasts of unto the promises. 
There is more riches and treasure to be had in one promise than all the
gold and silver of the Indies are worth; ‘exceeding great and precious
promises,’ II
Peter 1:4;
by them a poor believer may lay claim to heaven and earth at once; for
godliness hath the promise of this life and the other also.  But that which in this place I would
commend their excellency from, is the admir­able service they do, and succour they
afford a poor soul in the day of his greatest distress.  They are the granary of spiritual
provision, whereby our Joseph, our dear Lord Jesus, nourisheth and preserveth
alive his brethren in a time of famine. 
They are the ‘hive of sweetness,’ where the believing soul in the winter
of affliction—when nothing is to be gathered abroad from the creature—both lies
warmly, and lives plentifully on the stock of comfort there laid up. They are,
in a word, ‘the fair havens’ and safe road into which the tempted soul puts his
weather‑beaten ship, where it lies secure till the heavens clear, and the storm
is over, which the world, sin, and Satan raise upon him.  Yea, when death itself approacheth, and
the devil hath but one cast more for the game, one skirmish more to get or lose
the victory for ever, then faith on the promise carries the Christian’s soul
out of the garrison of his body—where he hath endured so hard a siege—with
colours flying, and joy tri­umphing to heaven, leaving only his flesh behind in
the hands of death, and that also with an assured hope of having it redeemed
out of its power ere it be long, at the day of resurrection and restitution of
all things.

 

 

 

USE OR
APPLICATION.

 

[Cruelty and
presumption of the Church of Rome,

in disarming the
people of this spiritual sword.]

 

           Use
First.  Is the word the
sword of the Spirit whereby the Christian vanquisheth his enemies? Then we
may justly charge the Church of Rome of cruelty to the souls of people, in
disarming them of that weapon with which they alone can defend them­selves
against their enemies, that seek their eternal ruin.  It is true, they have some fig-leaves with which they would
fain hide this their shameful practice, making the world believe they do it in
mercy to the people, lest they should cut their fingers and wound themselves
with this weapon.  ‘We see,’ say
they, ‘how many errors and heresies the world swarms with, by the mistakes of
the vulgar.’  Yea, Peter himself
they dare subpœna as a witness on their side, who saith that there ‘are some
things hard to be understood’ in Paul’s epistles, ‘which they that are
unlearned and unstable wrest, as they do also the other scriptures, unto their
own destruction,’ II
Peter 3:16.  And therefore the Scripture, which is
so dan­gerous for or­dinary people to meddle with, they judge it safest to lay
out of their reach, as we do a sword or edge‑tool from children, though they
cry never so much for it. See what a fair glove they draw over so foul a hand.
But did Peter, because some unlearned and unstable souls wrested the Scripture,
forbid them, or any other, how weak soever, to read the Scripture?  This had carried some weight with it
indeed.  But we find just the
contrary.  For in the following
verses, the counsel he gives Christians, that they may not be led away with the
error of the wicked, is to ‘grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and
Saviour Jesus Christ,’ ver.
18.
Lumen est vehiculum influentiæ —light is the chariot that conveys the
influences of the sun.  So the
knowledge of Christ brings with it the influences of his grace into the
heart.  And how did Peter mean they
should grow in the knowledge of Christ, if he would not have them read the
Scriptures, which is the only book where it is to be learned?  But the Papists would have their people
learn their knowl­edge of Christ from their preaching of him, and not from the
Scriptures, which they cannot so safely converse with.  But,

           1.
How shall they be assured that what they preach is true, except they
have the Scripture, to which, as unto the true touch‑stone, they may bring
their doctrine to be tried?  Thus
did the Bereans by Paul’s sermon, Acts 17:11—a preacher as good, I trow, as any of
theirs.  And,

           2.
Suppose they preach the truth, can they war­rant that their words shall not be perverted
and mistaken by their hearers? 
And if they cannot, why then are they suffered to preach in a vulgar
tongue, when the word of God, for the same reason, is forbid­den to be read by
the people in a known tongue? Truly, I am of that learned man’s mind, who
saith, ‘that, if God himself may not speak in a vulgar tongue, I see far less
reason that a friar should, and so the people should know nothing at all of
Christ’ (Mede
on Jer. 10:11).  No, the true reason why they forbid the
Scripture to be read, is not to keep them from errors and heresies, but to keep
them from discovering those which they themselves impose upon them.  Such trash as they trade in would never
go off their hand roundly, did they not keep their shop thus dark; which made
one of their shavelings so bitterly com­plain of that unlucky Luther for
spoiling their market, saying, ‘But for him they might have persuaded the
people of Germany to have ate hay.’ 
Anything indeed will go down a blind man’s throat.  I do not wonder that their people thus
nustled[3] in
ignorance, do so readily embrace their fopperies, and believe all their
forgeries so confidently.  The
blind man must either sit still, or go whither he pleaseth that leads him.  We read of a whole army, when once
smitten with blind­ness, carried out of their way by one single man that had
his eyes in his head, II
Kings 6.  But this we may well wonder at, that
men who know the Scriptures —as many of their leaders do—and acknowledge their
divinity, dare to be so impudent and audacious [as] to intercept this letter
sent from the great God to the sons of men, and not suffer them—except a few
whom they think fit—to look on it, though it be su­perscribed and directed by
God himself not to any party or sort of men, but to every man where it comes, Rom. 1:17, II Cor. 1:1.  This is such a piece of im­pudence as
cannot be paralleled. Wherefore are laws made, but to be promulgated?—Scripture
written, but to be read and known of all men?  I am sure the apostle by the same authority with which he
wrote his epistles, commands them to be read in the church, Col. 4:16.  And did the ministers of those churches
pocket them up, and conceal them from the people’s notice, lest they should, by
perverting them, be made heretics?

           It
is too true some ‘wrest’ the Scriptures 'to their own destruction.’  And so do some, for want in care of
eating, choke themselves with their bread.  Must all therefore starve for fear of being choked?  Some hurt themselves and friends with
their weapons; must therefore the whole army be disarmed, and only a few chief
officers be allowed to wear a sword by their sides?  Truly, if this be argument enough to seal up the Bible from
being read, we must not only deny it to the meaner and ore unlearned sort, but
also to the great rabbis and doctors of the chair, for the grossest heresies
have bred in the finest wits. 
Prodigious errors have been as much beholden to Arrius as the ignorance
of Ætius: so that the upshot of all will be this—the unlearned must not read
the Scripture, because they may pervert them through ignorance; nor the
learned, because they may wrest them by their subtlety.  Thus we see, when proud men will be
wiser than God, their foolish minds will darken, till they lose the reason and
understanding of men.

 

[Reproof of the
Church of Rome for the

insufficiency it
imputes to the Scriptures].

 

           Use
Second.  This falls heavy
upon them that charge the holy Scriptures with insufficiency, as not containing
all things necessary to salvation. 
What a horrid blasphemy is this, and reproach to the great God, that he
should send his people into the field, and put such a wooden sword into their
hand as is not sufficient to defend them and cut their way through their
enemies’ powers to heaven, whither he orders them to march. Would any gracious
prince, that loves the lives of his subjects, give them arms that are not fit
to oppose such an enemy as comes out against them, if he knows how to furnish
them with better?  Nay, would he
give them such weak and in­sufficient weapons for their defence, and then
charge them to use no other?  This
were to unworthily to send them as sheep to the shambles, and could signify
nothing but that he had a mind either their throats should be all cut by their
enemies.  And doth not God himself
highly commend this sword of the Scripture to his people, when he tells Timothy
it is ‘able to make thee,’ as a Christian, ‘wise unto salvation,’ II Tim. 3:15, and as a
‘man of God,’ or minister of the gospel, ‘perfect,’ and ‘thoroughly furnished
unto all good works?’ ver.
17.  Yea, doth he not also forbid us the use
of any other weapon but what the Scripture furnisheth us withal?  ‘To the law and to the testimony’ he
sends us, Isa.
8:20,
and makes it a renouncing our allegiance to him to go anywhere else for counsel
or pro­tection than to his written word: ‘Should not a people seek unto their
God? for the living to the dead?’ 
Then follows, ‘To the law and to the testimony, if they speak not according
to this word, it is because there is no light in them,’ ver. 19, 20. It seems
then God doth not count we seek to him, ex­cept we inquire for him at 'the law
and the testi­mony,’ and bring all we hear to their test and touch.

           Surely,
that which is intended by God to be to his people what the standard and
town-bushel are to the market, a rule to measure all doctrines by, is itself
exact and sufficient.  But the
world, by this time, knows where the insufficiency of the Scriptures lies.
Sufficient they are enough for God’s ends, but not for the pope’s ends.  They are able to furnish every true
Christian in the world with wisdom enough how he should save his soul.  But the pope finds himself grieved,
that they are not so useful to help him to save the triple crown on his head,
and do not furnish him with grounds from which he may defend the lordly power
and godlike infallibility he claims, with the other doctrines held forth by
him.  And this is the only defect
he can charge the Scriptures with, to sup­ply which, the rabble‑rout of
traditions is brought into the church; all taught to speak the pope’s sense be­fore
they see the light.  And, that
reputation may be gained to these unknown witnesses, this way with the devil’s
help—who owes the Scripture an old spite ever since the first promise rescued
Adam, his pris­oner out of his hand—have taken, that the Scriptures be declared
insufficient and uncertain;—minima par­ticula veritatis revelatæ—the
least particle of revealed truth, as one of them impudently writes, and so
needs the patchery of these to make it perfect Just as An­dronicus served the
emperor Alexius, who gave out he was weak and insufficient to govern alone, and
so first got a joint power with him, and at last an absolute power over him to
unthrone him.  And whether their
traditions have dealt better by the Scripture, the world may judge.  When traditions go up, the written word
is sure to go down.  Ye have made,
saith Christ to the Pharisees, the commandment of none effect by your
tradition, Matt.
15:6,
²6LDTF"J,—you have un­lorded
it, and supplanted its authority in the minds of men, who leave the word to
hearken to your traditions.

 

[Wickedness of those
who uplift the sword

of the Spirit in
defence of any sin.]

 

           Use
Third.  This condemns those
of prodigious wickedness, that, instead of using this sword to de­fend them
against sin and Satan, lift it up audaciously for their defence in their wicked
and abominable practices.  Thus
the heretic, he takes up the word to justify his corrupt tenets, forcing it, in
favour of his way, to bear witness against itself.  And many wretches we meet with, who, to ward off a reproof,
will dare to seek protection for their ungodly courses from the word, which
they have at their tongue’s end, and interpose to break the blow that is made
at them. Tell the sensualist of his voluptuous, brutish life, and you shall
have him sometimes reply, Solomon was not so precise and scrupulous, who saith,
‘A man hath no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be
merry,’ Ecc.
8:15.  As if Solomon, yea God himself that
directed his pen, meant to fill the drunkard's quaffing‑cup for him, and were a
friend of gluttons and wine-bibbers! 
Whereas, ‘to eat and drink, and be merry’ in Solomon’s mouth there, amounts
to more than to serve God with gladness in the abundance of those good things
which God gives us to enjoy, in the mouth of Moses, Deut. 28:47.

           Such
is the desperate wickedness of man’s heart, that the sweetest and comfortablest
portions of Scrip­ture are most wrested by many to serve their lusts. The
declarations of God's free‑grace, made on pur­pose to melt sinners' hearts, and
draw them from their lusts to Christ, how oft are they abused to wedge and
harden them in their sins, and keep them from him!  Examples of holy men's falls, recorded merely to make them
fear that stand, and to preserve hope of mercy alive in those that have fallen,
whereby they are in danger of being swallowed up with despair, how are they
perverted by many, who lie like beasts wallowing in their own dung, and think
all is well because such eminent saints fell so foully, and yet came off so
fairly at last, with their sins pardoned and souls saved!  The good success that late repentance
hath now and then had in a few, yea very few Scripture-instances, it is strange
to think what use and advantage Satan makes of them, to beg time of the sinner,
and make him linger still in the Sodom of his sins.  ‘The eleventh hour,’ saith he, ‘is not yet come; why will
you repent so long before you need?’ 
Why should he set out in the morning, who may despatch his journey well
enough an hour before night?  The
penitent thief, that, as one saith, stole to heaven from the cross, hath, I
fear, been an occasion—though on God’s part an innocent one—to bring many a
sinner to the gallows; yea, well, if not to a place of a longer execu­tion in
another world!  O, take heed of
this, sinners, as you love your souls! 
Is it not enough to have your lusts, but you must also fetch your
encouragement from the word, and forge God’s hand to bear you out? The devil
indeed thus abuseth Scripture, Matt. 4:4, thinking thereby to make Christ more
readily hearken to his accursed motion; and wilt thou tread in his steps?  By this thou makest one sin two, and
the last the worst.  to be drunk
was a fearful sin in Belshaz­zar; but to quaff in the bowels of the sanctuary
was far worse.  No sin is little,
but the least sin amounts to blasphemy when thou committest it on a Scripture
pretence.  The devil cannot easily
desire a greater occasion of glorying over God, than thus to wound his name
with his own sword.  When Julian
the Apostate saw the Gentile philosophers confuted by the human learning of
some Christians, he said J@ÃH "LJä< BJ,D@4H •84F6@µ,2"—we are
taken by our own wings; looking upon it as a great disgrace for them to be
beaten and worsted at that which they counted their own weapon.  The word is the Holy Spirit’s
sword.  O, for shame, let not Satan
make his boast over thy God, Christian, by thy means, which he will, if he can
persuade thee to wound his name with this his own weapon.  He that fetcheth an argument from the
holy Scriptures to countenance any corrupt opin­ion or practice, what doth he
but go about to make God fight against himself?  He shoots at him with an arrow out of his won quiver.  He sins, and then doth as it were say,
God bids him do it.  If there be a
man on the face of the earth that God will single out as a mark for his utmost
wrath, this is he who shelters his wickedness under the wing of the holy
Scriptures, and so makes God patron of his sin.

 

[Twofold exhortation
in regard

to the word of God.]

 

           Use
Forth.  Let us be exhorted to
thankfulness to God for the word, and incited also to the study of it.  1. Let us bless God for furnishing us
with this sword for our defence. 
2. Let us study the word, so that we may make use of this weapon to
defend our­selves against the many potent enemies that are in the field against
us.

 

[Exhortation to
thankfulness for the word.]

 

           1.
Exhortation.  Let us be
excited and provoked to bless God for this sword, with which he hath furn­ished
us so graciously, whereby we may stand on our defence against all our
bloody enemies.  If a man had a
kingdom in his possession, but no sword to keep the crown on his head, he could
not expect to enjoy it long.  This
is a world that there is no living or holding anything we have in safety,
without the help of arms. Least of all, could our souls be safe if naked and un­armed,
which are here in the mouth of danger, and can no way pass to the place of
bliss and happiness in heaven prepared for them, but through their enemies’
quarters.  When Israel took their
march out of Egypt towards the promised land, few or none would trust them to travel
through their country, but all rose up in arms against them.  The Christian will find his march much
more troublesome and dangerous to heaven. 
Satan is not grown tamer than he used to be, nor the wicked world better
affected than it was wont to the people of God.  O what a mercy is it, that we have this sword by our side,
which puts us out of danger from any of them all!  This is thy hand, Chris­tian, as the rod was in Moses’.  What though an army of devils be behind
thee, and a sea of sins before thee roaring upon thee, with this sword, by
faith wielding it, thou mayest cut thy way through the waves of the one, and
set thyself out of the reach of the other. Tru­ly, the Scripture is a mercy
incomparably greater than the sun in the heavens.  That might be better spared out of its orb, than this out of
the church.  If that were gone, we
should be but knocked off our worldly business, and be only in danger to lose
our bodily life, by missing our way, and stumbling on this pit and tumbling
into that pond.  But, if deprived
of the word, salvation work would be laid aside, or gone about to little
purpose, and our souls must needs miss the right way to happiness, and stumble
inevit­ably upon hell, while we think we are going to heaven, unless a miracle
should interpose to prevent the same. 
But more particularly, bless God for these three mercies in reference to
the Scriptures.

(1.)      For their
translation into vulgar tongues.

(2.)      For the ministry
of the word.

(3.)      For the efficacy
of the word and its ministry hath had upon thy heart.

           (1.)
Bless God for the translation of the Scrip­tures.  The word is our sword.  By being translated, this sword is
drawn out of its scabbard.  What
use, alas! could a poor Christian, that hath but one tongue in his head—that
understands but one language, I mean, which his mother taught him—make of this
sword when presented to him as it is sheathed in Greek and Hebrew?  Truly, he might even fall a weeping
with John at the sight of the sealed book, because he could not read it, Rev. 5:4.  O bless God that hath sent not angels,
but men, furnished by the blessing of God on their indefatigable labours and
studies, with ability to roll away the stone from the mouth of this fountain!  And were it not sad to see the water of
life brought to you with the expense of their spirits and strength (wasted in
the work), to be spilled on the ground, and basely undervalued by you, so as
hardly to be put into the catalogue of mercies which you praise God for?  O God forbid!  It cannot be, if ever you had but the sweetness of any one
promise in it milked out unto you, or the power of one of its divine truths
impressed on your hearts. Melchior Ad. tells us that Bugenhagius—whom Luther
used, with others, for his help in translating the Bible—when the work was
brought to a happy period, he was so affected with the incomparable mercy
therein to the churches of Christ in Germany, that every year he invited his
friends to a solemn feast that day whereon the work was finished, which they
called, ‘The feast of the translation of the Bible.’

           When
Queen Elizabeth, our English Deborah, opened the prisons at her coming to the
crown—as at such times is {it} usual to scatter acts of grace—one as piously as
ingeniously told her, that there were yet some good men left in prison
undelivered, and de­sired they might also partake of her princely favour,
meaning the four evangelists, and Paul, who had been denied to walk
abroad in the English tongue when her sister swayed the scepter.  To this she answered, ‘They should be
asked, whether they are willing to have their liberty;’ which soon after
appearing, they had their jail-delivery, and have ever since had their liberty
to speak to you in your own tongue at the as­semblies of your public worship;
yea, to visit you in your own private houses also.  Now is that happy day come, and long hath been, which holy
Mr. Tyndal told a popish doctor of, when a poor ploughman should be able to
read the Scriptures, and allowed to as freely converse with them, as any doctor
of them all!  A blessed day indeed
it is to the souls of men!

           Now,
Christian, when thou art prisoner to God’s providence, and kept by his
afflicting hand at home, thou hast the word of God to bear thee company in thy
solitude; and so, though thou canst not sit up with thy brethren and sisters at
thy Father's table in the public ordinances, yet thou dost not wholly go with­out
thy meal.  Thou canst not, it is
like, carve so well for thyself as the minister useth to do for thee, yet it is
an incomparable mercy thou hast liberty to pick up out of the word for thy
present counsel and comfort, as thou art enabled by the Spirit of God upon thy
humble prayer for his assistance. 
Admirable hath been the support the saints have found from this holy
book in their confinements.  God
hath graciously ord­ered it, that the most useful and necessary truths for
afflicted saints hang, as I may so say, on the lower boughs of this tree of
life, within the reach of a poor Christian who is of but an ordinary stature in
knowl­edge.  O think, and think
again, of those sad times when the bloody sword of persecutors was drawn to
keep off the people of God from coming near this tree, and then you will the
better conceive of your present privilege.  Yea, look back unto those times of popish ignorance, when
this cellar of cordial waters was locked up in the original tongues, and not
one in a whole town could be found that had a key, by whom poor souls in their
fainting fits and agonies of spirit could have it opened, so as to come by any
of their sweet consolations to restore their swooning souls; and then you will
surely bless God, who hath given you so free an access unto them, when others
cannot have access to you to communicate their help unto you.

           (2.)
Bless God for the ministry of the word, which is the public school he
opens to his people, that in it they may learn the use of this their
weapon.  It is a sad fruit that
grows upon the little smattering knowledge that some have got from the word, to
puff them up with a conceit of their own abilities, so as to despise the
ministry of the word as a needless work. The Corinthians were sick of this
disease, which the apostle labours to cure by a sharp reproof: ‘Now ye are
full, now ye are rich, ye have reigned as kings without us,’ I Cor. 4:8.  Paul, it seems, was nobody now with
these high proficients.  The time
was, when Paul came to town he was a welcome man.  The sucking child was not more glad to see his mother come
home, nor could cry more earnestly to be laid to the breast, than they did to
partake of his ministry; but now, like the child when it hath sucked its
bellyful, they bite the very teat they so greedily awhile before took into
their mouths, as if they should never want another meal.  So high did their waxen wings of pride
carry them above all thoughts of needing his ministry any more.  And hath not the pride of many in our
days carried them as far into a contempt of the minis­try of the word, though
their knowledge comes far short of the Corinthians’ knowledge?  Well, take heed of this sin.  Miriam’s plague, yea a worse, a spir­itual
scab and leprosy, apparently cleaves to those, as close as a girdle to the
loins, who come once to scorn and despise their ordinance, that they make all
afraid to come near their tents. 
What prodigious errors are they left unto, whereby God brands them!  Yea, what sensual lusts hath the once
forward profession of many among them been quite swallowed up with!  If once a man thinks he needs no longer
go to the Spir­it’s school, he shall find, whoever he is, that he takes the
ready way to deprive himself of the Spirit’s teaching at home.  ‘Quench not the Spirit.  Despise not prophesyings,’ I Thes. 5:19, 20.  They are coupled together.  He that despiseth one loseth both.  If the scholar be too proud to learn of
the usher, he is unworthy to be taught by the master.

           But
I turn to you humble souls, who yet sit at the feet of Jesus in your right
minds.  Speak the truth and lie
not; are you not well paid for your pains? Dare you say of your waiting on the
ministry of the word, what a wretch—though a learned one, Politianus by
name—said of his reading the Scripture, ‘That he never spent time to less
purpose!’  Do you count it among
your lost time and misplaced hours that are bestowed in hearing the word?  I trow not. Thou keepest thy
acquaintance with the word at home if thou beest a Christian, and eatest many a
sweet bit in a corner while thou art secretly medita­ting thereon.  But does this content thee, or make
thee think the word preached a superfluous meal?  I am sure David knew how to improve his solitary hours as
well as another, yet in his banishment, O how he was pinched and hunger-bitten
for want of the public ordinance! 
And sure we cannot think he for­got to carry his Bible with him into the
wilderness, loving the word so dearly as he did.  ‘My soul thirst­eth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a
dry and thirsty land, where no water is,’ Ps. 63:1.  Why, David? what is the matter thou thus complainest?  Hast thou not the word to read in
secret?  Canst thou not let down
thy bucket, and by meditation draw what thou wilt out of the well of the
word?  Why then dost thou say thou
art in a ‘thirsty land where no water is?’  He means, therefore, comparatively.  The sweetest re­freshings he enjoyed in
his private converse with the word, were not comparable to what he had met in
public.  And can you blame a sick
child for desiring to sit up with his brethren at his father's table, though he
is not forgot in his chamber where he is prisoner, but hath something sent him
up?  It was the sanctuary —there to
‘see God, his power and glory, as of old’ —that David’s heart longed for, and
could not well live without.

           God
threatens to bring ‘a famine of hearing the words of the Lord,’ Amos 8:11.  Mark, not a famine of reading the word,
but of hearing the word.  If the
word be not preached, though we have the Bible to read in at home, yet it is a
famine; and so we ought to judge it. 
‘And the word of the Lord was precious in those days; there was no open
vision,’ I
Sam. 3:1.  The strongest Christians would find a
want of this ordin­ance in time. 
We see in a town besieged, though it be well laid in with corn, yet when
put to grind with private hand‑mills all they spend, what straits they are soon
put to.  And so will the best grown
saints, when they come to have no more from the word for their souls to live
on, than what they grind with their own private meditation and labour, then
they will miss the minister, and see it was a mercy indeed to have one whose
office it was to grind all the week for him.  And if the stronger Christian cannot spare this office, be­cause
yet not perfect; what shift shall the weaker sort make, who need the minister
to divide the word, as much as little children their nurse’s help to mince
their meat and cut their bread for them? 
To leave them to their own improving the word, is to set a whole loaf
among a company of little babes, and bid them help themselves.  Alas! they will sooner cut their
fingers with the knife than fill their bellies with the bread.

           (3.)
Bless God for the efficacy of the word upon thy soul.  Did ever its point prick thy
heart?  its edge fetch blood of thy
lusts, and cut off any rotten mem­ber of the body of sin?  Bless God for it.  You would do as much for a surgeon for
lancing a sore, and sev­ering a putrefied part from thy body, though he put
thee to exquisite torture in the doing of it.  And I hope thou thinkest God hath done thee a greater
kindness than so.  Solomon tells
us, ‘faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are
deceitful,’ Prov.
27:6.  The wounds that God thus gives are the
faithful wounds of a friend; and the kisses sin gives come from an enemy.  God's wounds cure, sin’s kisses kill.  The Italians say that, ‘play, wine, and
women consume a man laughing.’  It
is true of all pleasurable sins; and as sin kills the sinner laughing, so God
saves poor souls weeping and bleeding under the wounds his word gives them.  Happy soul, thou that hast made such an
exchange to get out of the enchanting arms of thy lusts that would have kissed
thee to death, and to fall into the hands of a faithful God, that means thee no
more hurt by all the blood he draws from thee than the saving of thy soul’s
life! How far mightst thou have gone, and not met with such a friend and such a
favour!  There is not another sword
like this in all the world that can cure with cutting; not another arm could
use this sword to have done thus much with it, besides the Spirit of God. The
axe does nothing till the hand of the workman lifts it up; neither can every
one—may be none else —do with his tools what himself can.  None could do such feats with
Scanderberg’s sword as himself.  To
be sure, none can pierce the conscience, wound the spir­it, and hew down the
lusts that there lie skulking in their fastness, but God himself.  And this he doth not for every one that
reads and hears it, which still great­ens thy mercy.  There were many widows in Israel when God sent his prophet
to her of Sarepta.  And why to her?  Was there never a drunkard, swearer, or
unbeliever, beside thee in the congregation at the same time that God armed his
word to smite thee down, and graciously prick thy heart?  O cry out in admiration of this
distinguishing mercy, ‘Lord, how is it thou wilt manifest thyself to me and not
unto the world!’

 

[Exhortation to the
study of the word.]

 

           2.
Exhortation.  Let this
provoke you to the study of the word, that you may thereby have a famil­iar
acquaintance with it.  For this
the Bereans ob­tained a mark of honour as a nobler sort of people than others,
because they ‘searched the Scriptures,’ Acts 17:11.  Shall God leave but one book to his church’s care and study,
and shall it not be read? Shall we be told there is so rich a treasure laid up
in this mine, and we continue so beggarly in our knowl­edge rather than take a
little pains by digging in it to come by it?  The canker and rust of our gold and sil­ver, which is got
with harder labour than here is re­quired, will rise up in judgment against many,
and say, ‘You could drudge and trudge for us that are now turned to rust and
dust, but could walk over the field of the world, where an incorruptible
treasure lay, and would lose it rather than your sloth!’  O where is to be found—in what breast
doth the ancient zeal of for­mer saints to the word lodge!  Have they not counted it above rubies
and precious stones?  Have they not
trudged over sea and land to get the sight of it? —given the money out of their
purse, the coat off their backs, to purchase a few leaves of it, and parted
with their blood out of their veins rather than forego the treasure which they
had found in it?  And is the market
now fallen so low that thou desirest not ac­quaintance with it when it is
offered at a far lower rate! 
Either they must be charged for very fools to buy the knowledge of it so
dear, or you that refuse it who may have it so cheap.  But, lest you should think I set you upon a needless work,
you are to understand there is an indispensable necessity of Scripture knowledge;
and that is double: necessitas præcepti et necessitas medii—a necessity
of command and a necessity of means.

           (1.)
There is a necessity of command: ‘Search the Scrip­tures,’ John 5:39.  Indeed, were there not such an express
word for this duty, yet the very penning of them, with the end for which they
are written con­sidered, would impose the duty upon us.  When a law is enacted by a prince or
state, for their subjects to obey, the very promulgation of it is enough to
oblige the people to take notice of it. 
Neither will it serve a subject’s turn that breaks this law, to say he
was ig­norant of any such law being in force: the publication of it bound him
to inquire after it.  What other
end have lawgivers in divulging their acts, but that their people might know
their duty?  Christ fastens con­demnation
on the ignorance of men  where
means for knowledge is afforded: ‘This is the condemnation, and men loved
darkness,’ John
3:19.  They will not know the rule, because
they have no mind to walk by it. 
Now if ignorance of the word be condemned where its light shines, then
sure he commands us to open our eyes, whereby we may let in the knowledge it
sheds forth; for a law must be transgressed before a condemning sentence be
pronounced.  It is the hea­then
that shall be judged without the written word; but thou that livest within its
sound shalt be judged by it; whether thou wilt know it or not, II Thes. 1:8.  And if thou shalt be judged by it, then
surely thou art bound to be instructed by it.  The Jews once had the word deposited in their hands, ‘unto
them were com­mitted the oracles of God,’ and do you think they had well
discharged their trust by locking them up safely in the ark, and never looking
into them?  Surely, you cannot but
think God intended another chest, even that in their own breasts, where he
would principally have them bestowed. 
They were committed to them, and now to us, as a dying father doth his
will and tes­tament to his son whom he makes his executor, not to throw it
aside among his waste papers, but carefully and curiously to read and observe
it, that thereby nothing therein contained might be left unperformed. It is
called ‘the faith once delivered unto the saints,’ Jude 3, that is,
delivered to their study and care. 
If any of us had lived when Christ was here in the flesh, and he—when
taking his farewell of the world—should have left to us some one thing in
special charge to be done for his sake after he was gone to heaven, would we
not religiously have performed the will of our dy­ing Saviour, as did St. John,
to whom he left the care of his mother, who therefore took her home to his own
house?  Behold here a greater
charge deposited in his saints’ hands—‘the faith which was once delivered to them,’
that is, ‘once’ for all, to be by them kept and transmitted from one generation
to another while this world lasts. 
So that, if thou takest thyself to be one of the saints' number, thou
art con­cerned with the rest to take it home with thee, and see that it dwells
in the richly, as becomes such a guest bequeathed by so dear a friend.

           (2.)
There is a necessity of means. 
The word contains the whole counsel of God for the bringing of poor
sinners to eternal life, and none besides this —only as they borrow their
notions out of it.  If you will not
search the Scripture, and sit here at the feet of the Spirit—who fits his
scholars for heaven by this one book—where wilt thou meet another master?  In whose works else wilt thou find the
words of eternal life?  Of Apollos,
who was a man ‘mighty in the Scrip­tures,’ it is said, that Aquila and
Priscilla ‘expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly,’ Acts 18:26. An
exposition presupposeth a ‘text.’ 
The meaning is, they opened the Scripture more perfectly to him. This is
‘the way of God’ to lead us to God; yea, the only way.  In other journeys we may miss the right
way, and yet come at last to the place we intended, though not so soon; but no
way will bring us to God but this of the word; neither can we walk in this way
of God, if we be ignorant of it.  A
man may in his other journeys be in his right way, and, though he knows not he
is right, may yet come safe home. 
But we can have no benefit from this way of God if wholly ignorant of
it, because we can do nothing in faith. 
O labour therefore to study this book, though thou beest a dunce in all
besides!  What is it thou wouldst
learn? Is it the true knowledge of God? 
thou mayest tumble over all the philosophers that ever wrote, and, when
thou hast done, not be able to frame a right notion of him.  The best of them all were but brutish
in their highest knowledge of God. 
Indeed, God left the wise world to run into a thousand follies and
vanities, while they were by their own wisdom shaping a reli­gion to
themselves, that, having proved them dunces, he might send them and the whole
world to learn this lesson in another school, and that is the ministry of the
gospel, which is naught else but the explication and application of the
word.  ‘After that in the wis­dom
of God the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of
preaching to save them that believe,’ I Cor. 1:21.

           Wouldst
thou come to the true knowledge of sin? 
This also is a notion to be found nowhere else. The Scripture alone
dissects the whole body of sin, and reads to us a perfect anatomy lecture upon
its most minute and secret parts. 
This discovers the ul­cers of our wicked hearts, which thousands die of,
and through ignorance of the Scriptures can never come to know what their
disease is.  If lust comes not out
in spots and sores, to be seen in the outward conversa­tion, the philosopher
pronounceth him a clear man. The plague of the heart, though an old disease and
epidemical, yet never was found out, or treated of, but by this sacred book,
and this doth it fully, yea, acquaints us where and from whom we got this infec­tion:
even from Adam, by whom the whole world was tainted and turned into a pesthouse[4].  Which of the wise ones of the world
ever dreamed of this geneal­ogy? 
Poor man, till the Scripture informs him of this, he lies in the pit of
sin, and knows not who threw him in!

           In
a word, wouldst thou be helped out? 
Thou must then be beholden to the Scripture to do this kind office for
thee.  Thy own cordage is too short
to reach, and too weak to draw thee thence.  If thou takest not hold of this cord of love which God lets
down unto thee in his word, thy case is desperate. And now, having set life and
death before thee, I leave thee to thy choice.  If yet thou beest resolved to reject the knowledge of the
Almighty, and put thy soul in launch into eternity without this chart to di­rect
thee, not caring whether thou sinkest or swim­mest, at what port thou arrivest
at in another world, heaven or hell; then prepare to take up thy lodgings among
the damned, and harden thy stout heart, if thou canst, against those endless
flames which are kindled for all those ‘that know not God, and that obey not
his gospel,’ II
Thes. 1:8.  And to thy terror know that, in spite
of thy now wilful ignorance, thou shalt one day understand the Scriptures to
the in­crease of thy torment.  Here
thou shuttest out their light, but then it will shine full on thy face, when it
would give thee some ease if thou couldst forget that ever thou didst hear of
such a book as the Bible is, but then against thy will thou shalt carry the
remem­brance thereof to hell with thee, that thy scornful neglect of it on
earth may be continually pouring new horror—as so much fire and brimstone—into
thy guilty conscience.  How must it
needs then fill thee with amazement to think of thy folly and madness, to sell
thy soul for a little ease and sloth? 
Hell from beneath would be moved for thee, to meet thee at thy coming
thither.  It will stir up the dead
for thee; and the poor heathens, whom thou shalt find prisoners there, will
come flocking about thee, and with their taunts reproaching thee, saying, ‘Art
thou also be­come weak as we?  Art
thou become like unto us? Thou perish for thy ignorance, who hadst the key of
knowledge at thy girdle, and at so easy a rate might have been instructed in
the way of life!  We, poor
heathens, cannot bring an action against God for false imprisonment, though we
never heard of such a thing as the gospel, for we did not walk up to our little
light; and might have known more of God had we not darkened our own foolish
minds by rebelling against the light we had; but never were we at such cost to
damn our souls as you, who have rejected the word of God, and broke through all
the threatenings and promises thereof, to come hither!’

 

[Carnal objections to
the

study of the word
removed.]

 

           Objection
First.  But you will say, ‘If
we had so much time to spare as others, we would not be so unacquainted with
the Scriptures.  But alas! we have
so much business to do, and our hands so full with our worldly callings, that
we hope God will excuse us, though we have not so much knowledge of his word as
others.’

           Answer.  Is this thy plea that thou indeed mean­est
to use when thou comest to the bar, and art called to give thy answer to Christ
thy judge upon this mat­ter?  Does
not thy heart quake within thy breast to think how he will knit his brow, and
throw this thy apology with disdain and wrath upon thy face?  Did so much anger sit on the
countenance of meek Jesus when on earth, and such a dreadful doom proceed from
his sweet lips against those that made their farms and oxen as a mannerly
excuse for not coming to his supper, sentencing them never to taste thereof? O
what then will glorious Christ say—when, mounted on his tribunal, not to
invite, but to judge sinners—to such an excuse as this?  Could God find heart and time to pen
and send this love-letter to thee, and thou find none to read and peruse
it?  The sick man no time to look
on his physician’s bill!  The con­demned
malefactor to look on his prince’s letter of grace, wherein a pardon is
tendered to him!  Poor wretch! must
the world have all thy time, and swallow thee up quick?  A curse not less than that of Corah!
Art thou such a slave to thy pelf as to tie thy soul to thy purse‑strings, and
take no more time for the sav­ing of thy soul than this cruel master will
afford thee? Thou and thy money perish with thee!  His soul is in an ill ease which hath an allowance from so
base a lust.  This is so far from
mending the matter, that thou dost but cover one sin with another.  Who gave thee leave thus to overlade
thyself with the encum­brance of the world?  Is not God the Lord of thy time?  Is it not given by him to be laid out for him? He allows
thee indeed a fair portion thereof for the lower employments of this life; but
did he ever intend to turn himself out of all?  This is as if the mariners, who are allowed by the merchant
some small adven­ture for themselves, should fill the ship, and leave no
stowage for his goods that pays the freight. Will it suffice for him to say,
‘There is no room left for his commodities?’  Or, as if a servant, when his master asks why he neglected
such a business committed to his care for despatch, should answer, ‘He was
drunk, and therefore could not do it.’ 
Why did you not read my word and meditate thereon? will Christ say at
that day.  Darest thou then to be
so impudent as to say, ‘Lord, I was overcharged with the cares, and drunk with
the love, of the world, and therefore I could not?’  Well, if this be the thief that robs thee of thy time, get
out of his hands as soon as thou canst, lest it also rob thee of thy soul.  The devil can desire no greater
advantage against thee.  He hath
thee sure enough in his trap.  He
may better boast over thee than Pharaoh could over Israel.  ‘He is entangled, in the wilderness of
the world, and shall not escape my hands.’

           If
a friend should tell you that you kept so many servants and retainers as would
beggar you, would you not listen to his counsel, and rather turn them out of
doors, than keep them still to eat you out of them? And wilt thou not be as
careful of thy soul?  Wilt thou
keep such a rout of worldly occasions, as will eat up all thoughts of God and
heaven?  Certainly thou must either
discharge thyself of these, or else fairly dismiss thy hope of salvation.  But why should I speak so much to
these?  This ordinarily is but a
cover to men’s sloth. If they had hearts, they would find time to converse with
the word in the greatest throng of their worldly occasions.  These can find time to eat and sleep,
to sport and recreate them­selves, but no time for God and his word.  Would they but allow their souls those
broken ends of time to search the Scripture, which they spend in pastimes, idle
visits, reading of empty pamphlets, it would not be long but they might give a
happy account of their proficiency in their spiritual knowledge.  What calling more encumbering than a
soldier’s?  And of all sol­diers
the general’s, to whom all resort? 
Such a one was Joshua, yet a strict command to study the Scrip­ture:
‘This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt
meditate therein day and night,’ Joshua 1:8.  Must Joshua, in the midst of drums and trumpets, and
distractions of war, find time to meditate on the law of God?  And shall thy shop or plough, a few
trivial occasions in thy private calling, discharge thee from the same
duty?  Dost thou think that the
closet is such an enemy to thy shop, and the time spent with God a thief to thy
temporal estate? God, I am sure, intends his people better; as appears in the
former place, ‘Then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt
have good success.’

           Objection
Second.  But I cannot read;
how can I search the Scriptures?

           Answer.  It is sad, I confess, that parents, who
are God’s trustees, to whom the nurture of their chil­dren is committed, should
take no more care for their souls than the ostrich doth of her eggs, not caring
what becomes of them.  What do
these but throw them into the devil’s mouth, by sending them out in­to a sinful
world without the knowledge of God and his word, to become a prey to every lust
that meets them?  To hell they must
needs swim, if God show no more pity to them than their bloody parents have
done!  But shall thy parents
negligence be a plea for thy ignorance? 
Wilt not thou be merciful to thyself because they were cruel?  In the fear of God be per­suaded to
supply their defect by thy diligence. 
I hope thou dost not think it a shame to learn that, now thou art
old, which thou shouldst have been taught when thou wert young. Had not thy
parents learned thee a trade to get thy temporal living with, wouldst thou therefore
have lived thee a beggar, rather than have applied thyself, though late, to
some calling?  There are many, for
thy encouragement, who have begun late, and, by God’s blessing on their
diligence, have conquered the difficulty of the work.  If thou wert in prison, thou hadst rather learn to read thy
neck‑verse, than lose thy life for want thereof.  Now, though abil­ity to read the word be not of absolute
necessity for the salvation of thy soul, yet knowledge of its saving truths is,
and few better private means to obtain this than reading.  But if thou beest not capable of this,
thou hast not by it an excuse for thy ignorance so long as thou hast an ear to
receive instruction from others. As God sometimes recompenses the defect of one
sense with the quickness of another, so may be thou shalt find thy inability to
read supplied with a tena­cious memory, to hold what thou hearest read or
preached unto thee.  Some martyrs
we find mighty in the Scriptures, able to defend the truth against learned
doctors, and yet not book‑learned. 
One amongst the rest who could not read, ‘yet carried al­ways some part
of the Scripture about with him, and when he met any Christian that could, he
would get him to read some portion or other thereof to him,’ whereby he
attained to such a measure of knowledge and faith, as made him wiser than his
enemies, and a stout champion for the truth, even to resist to blood.

           Objection
Third.  ‘O but,’ saith a third,
‘though I can read, yet I am of so weak an understanding that I fear I shall
make no work with such deep mysteries as are there contained.’

           Answer.  Take heed this objection comes not from
thy sluggish heart, which gets this fair pretence to ease thee of a duty thou
fearest will be troublesome unto thee. 
Didst thou ever make a trial, and set about the work, conscientiously
using all means that might conduce towards thy instructing in the mind of
god?  If not, lay not the blame on
thy weak head, but wicked heart. 
When thou wentest first to be an ap­prentice, what skill hadst thou in
thy trade?  Didst thou therefore
despair and run away?  No, but by
thy diligence didst learn the mystery of it in a few years, so as to maintain
thyself comfortably upon it; and will not thy industry to learn that, condemn
thy sloth in not studying the word, which is able to bring in a bet­ter
livelihood to thy soul than thy trade can do for thy body?

           But,
poor soul, if what thou sayest indeed ariseth from the deep sense thou hast of
thy own weakness, then ponder upon this twofold
encouragement.

           1.
Encouragement.  God is able to
interpret his own word unto thee. 
Indeed none can enter into the knowledge thereof, but he must be
beholden unto his Spirit to unlock the door.  If thou hadst a riper head and higher parts than thou canst
now pretend to, thou wouldst, without his help, be but like the blind Sodomites
about Lot’s house, groping, but not able to find the way into the true saving
knowledge thereof. He that hath not the right key is as far from entering the
house as he that hath none, yea in some sense further off.  For he that hath none will call to him
that is within, while the other, trusting to his false key, stands pottering
without to little pur­pose.  The
Pharisees, who were so conversant in the Scriptures, and obtained the name for
the admired doctors of the chair, called, ‘the princes of the world,’ I Cor. 2:8,—be­cause
so renowned and adored among the people, yet even these missed the truth which
lay before them almost in every leaf of Moses and the prophets, whom they were,
in their every‑day’s study, tumbling over —I mean that grand truth concerning
Christ, of whom both Moses and the prophets speak.  And at the same time the people whom they counted so base,
yea accursed, as those that understood not the law, could see him whom they
missed.  None so knowing that God
cannot blind and infatuate; none so blind and ignorant whose eyes his spirit
cannot open.  He who, by his
incubation upon the waters at the crea­tion, hatched that rude mass into the
beautiful form we now see, and out of that dark chaos made the glorious
heavens, and garnished them with so many orient stars, can move upon thy dark
soul, and en­lighten it, though now it be as void of knowledge as the evening
of the world’s first day was of light. 
The school‑master sometimes sends home and bids the father put him to
another trade, because not able, with all his art, to make a scholar of
him.  But if the Spirit of God be
the master, thou shalt learn, though a very dunce: ‘The entrance of thy words
giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple,’ Ps. 119:130. No sooner
is a soul entered into the Spirit’s school, but he becomes a proficient.  Thence we are com­manded to encourage
those that discourage them­selves: ‘Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm
the feeble knees,’ Isa.
35:3.  Why? what good news shall we tell
them?  ‘The eyes of the blind shall
be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped,’ ver. 5.  ‘An highway shall be there, and a way,
and it shall be called The way of holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it;
but it shall be for those: the way­faring men, though fools, shall not err
therein,’ ver.
8.

           2.
Encouragement.  The deeper
sense thou hast of thy own weakness, the more fit thou art for the Spirit’s
teaching. A proud scholar and a humble mas­ter will never agree; Christ is
‘meek, and lowly,’ and so ‘resisteth the proud,’ but ‘giveth grace unto the
humble.’  Though he cannot brook
him that is proud, yet he can bear with thee that art weak and dull, if humble
and diligent; as we see in the disciples, whom our Saviour did not disdain to
teach the same lesson over and over again, till at last they say, ‘Lo, now
speakest thou plainly,’ John
16:29.  The eunuch was no great clerk when in
his chariot he was reading Isaiah’s prophecy; yet because he did it with an
honest heart, Philip is despatched to instruct him.

 

 

 

 

DIRECTION X.—THIRD
GENERAL PART.

 

[How
to use the Sword of the Word.]

 

‘And the
sword of the Spirit,’ &c. 
(Eph. 6:17).

 

           But
haply some may say, ‘You have said enough to let us know how necessary a weapon
this sword is to defend our souls, and of what admirable use in all the
conflicts the Christian hath with any of his enemies. But we hope you will not
leave us thus.  It is a word of
counsel we now listen to hear from you, how we poor Christians may wield and
use this sword for our own defence, and the vanquishing of the several enemies
whose approach you have alarmed us to expect; some whereof we already, to our
great terror, see in the field against us, and how soon the other may appear we
know not.  What will a sword by our
side, a Bible in our hand, yea mouth, do us good, if we be not instructed how
we may ward off their blows, and make them feel the impression of ours
therewith?’

           Your
request is reasonable, and for your better satisfaction I shall sort the
directions into several branches, suited to the several kinds of enemies you have
to grapple with; for their assaults being of a different nature, do require a
resistance suitable to their way of fight.  first. How we
are to use the spiritual sword against the persecutor.  second.
Against the heretic.  third. Against the army of lusts lodged
within our own bosoms.  fourth. Against the bands of afflictions
which from without invade, from within distress, him.

 

 

BRANCH FIRST.

 

[Directions how to use the sword

of the word against persecutors.]

 

           We
shall begin with the persecutor. 
Now, wouldst thou, Christian, stand the shock of his furi­ous assault,
when he hangs out his bloody flag, breathing slaughter to the church and flock
of Christ, if they will not let him trample upon all their glory, by defiling
their consciences, and renouncing their faith at the lust of his imperious
command.  Then, First. Let it be thy care to get clear
Scripture ground for those principles and practices of thine which stir up the
persecutor’s rage against thee.  Second. Improve those scriptures which
teach us to dread God more and fear man less.  Third. Be sure
thou givest up thy lusts to the sword of the Spirit, before thy life is in any
danger from the sword of the persecutor. Fourth.
Fortify thy faith on those promises which have an especial respect to
persecution.

           Direction First.  Let it be thy first care to get
clear Scripture grounds for those principles and prac­tices of thine which stir
up the persecutor’s rage against thee.  A man had need be well assured of that which brings life and
dear enjoyments—that go all away with it—into hazard.  It is enough to weaken the courage of a valiant man to fight
in a mist, when he cannot well discern his foes from his friends; and to be a
damp upon the Christian's spirit in a suffering hour, if he be not clear in his
judgement, and fixed in his principles that he is to suffer for.  Look, therefore, to put that out of
question in thy own thoughts for which the persecutor calls thee into
question.  And the rather because
it ever was, and still will be the policy of persecutors to disfigure what they
can the beautiful face of those truths and practices for which the servants of
Christ suffer, that they may put a colour of justice upon their bloody
cruelties, and make the world believe they suffer as evil-doers.  Now thou wilt never be able to bear up
under the weight of this their heavy charge except thou beest fully per­suaded
in thy own conscience that thou sufferest for righteousness’ sake.  But if thou standest clear in thy own
thoughts concerning thy cause, thou wilt easily wipe off the dirt they throw
upon thee, and sweetly entertain thyself with the comfort which thy own
conscience will bring to thee through the reproaches of thy enemies.  Nemo est miser sensu alieno,
saith Salvian—what others say or think of us makes not miserable.  One reproof from a man's own thoughts
wounds ore than the reproaches do of all the world besides.  When the Thessalonians were once
satisfied of the certain truth of Paul’s doctrine—for the gospel, it is said,
came to them ‘in much assurance,’ I Thes. 1:5—then they could open their door ‘with
joy’ to receive it, though afflictions and persecutions came along with it, ver. 6.

           Direction Second.  Improve those scriptures which teach
us to dread God more and fear man less. Every man is most loath to fall
into his hands whom he fears most. 
So that, if God hath once gained the supremacy of thy fear, thou wilt
rather skip into the hottest fire the persecutor can make, than make God thy
enemy.  ‘Princes have persecuted me
without a cause: but my heart standeth in awe of thy word,’ Ps. 119:161.  David had put, it seems, man’s wrath
and that which God threatens in his word into the scales, and finding God’s
hand to be without compare the heavier, trembles at that, and ventures the
worst that the other can do against him. 
Hence it is the Scrip­ture is so much in depressing the power of man,
that we may not be scared at his big looks or threats; in depressing the power
of man, and representing his utmost rage to be so contemptible and
inconsiderable a thing, as none that knows who God is needs fear the worst he
can do.  ‘Cease ye from man, whose
breath is in his nostrils: for wherein is he to be accounted of?’ Isa. 2:22.  ‘Fear not them which kill the body, but
are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy
both soul and body in hell,’ Matt. 10:28. 
Pueri timent larvas, sed non timent ignem —children are afraid of
bugbears that cannot hurt them, but can play with fire that will burn
them.  And no less childish is it
to be frighted into a sin at the frowns of a sorry man, who comes forth with a
vizard of seeming dread and terror, but hath no power to hurt us more than our
own fear gives him, and to play with hell-fire, into which God is able to cast
us for ever.  Truly this is to be
scared with painted fire in the picture, and not in the furnace where it really
burns.  What was John Huss the worse
for his fool’s cap that his enemies put on his head, so long  as un­der it he had a helmet of hope
which they could not take off?  Or
how much the nearer hell was the same blessed martyr for their committing his
soul to the devil?  No nearer than
some of their own wicked crew are to heaven for being sainted in the pope’s
calendar.  Melancthon said some are
anathema secundum dici —to be doubly cursed, as Luther and other
faithful servants of Christ whom the pope cursed.  But what saith David? 
‘Let them curse, but bless thou,’ Ps. 109:28.  He that hath God’s good needs not fear the world’s bad.  The dog’s barking doth not make the
moon change her colour.  Nor needs
the saint change his countenance for the rage of his persecutors.

           Direction Third.  Be sure thou givest up thy lusts to
the sword of the Spirit before thy life is in any danger from the sword of the
persecutor.  He is not likely
to be free of his flesh for Christ, when called to suffer at man’s hand, that
is dainty of his lusts, and cannot bear the edge of the Spirit’s sword, when he
comes to mortify them.  Canst thou
be willing to lay down thy life for Christ, and yet keep an enemy in thy bosom
out of the hand of justice, that seeks to take away the life of Christ?  Persecutors tempt as well as torture, Heb. 11.  They promise the honours of the court
as well as threaten the hardship of the prison and cruelty of the devouring
fire.  Now, if thy love to the
world be not mortified, it is easy to tell what choice thou wilt make, even the
same that Demas did, thou wilt embrace the ‘present world,’ and leave Christ in
the plain field.  Or if thou
shouldst through a natural stoutness bear up under sufferings, even to give thy
body to be burned, rather than renounce the true religion thou professest, yet
if any lust should at last be found to have been fostered by thee, thou shalt
have no more thanks at Christ’s hands than he who in the law offered up an
unclean beast to God.  It is pos­sible
for one to die in the cause of Christ and not be his martyr.  Thy heart must be holy thou sufferest
with as well as the cause holy thou sufferest for.  Thy behaviour must be gracious in suffering, as well as the
cause just that brings thee to suffer. He alone is Christ’s martyr that suffers
for Christ as Christ him­self suffered. 
For he hath not only left us his truth to maintain to blood when called
thereunto, but his ex­ample to follow also in our sufferings.  ‘If when ye do well, and suffer for it,
ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God; for even hereunto were ye
called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye
should follow his steps;...who, when he was reviled, reviled not again; when he
suffered, he threatened not,’ I Peter 2:20, 21, 23.

           This
is hard work indeed, in the very fire to keep the spirit cool, and clear of
wrath and revenge towards those that throw him so unmercifully into the devour­ing
flames!  But it makes him that by
grace from above can do it, a glorious conqueror.  Flesh and blood would bid a man call for fire from heaven,
rather than mercy to fall upon them that so cruelly handle them.  He that can forgive his enemy is too
hard for him, and hath the better of him: because his enemy’s blows do but
bruise his flesh, but the wounds that love gives pierce the soul and
conscience.  Saul was forced to
confess that David, persecuted so furiously by him, was the better man, ‘Thou
art more righteous than I,’ I Sam. 24:17. 
And the people went from the execution of Christ, whom they were so mad
to have crucified, sick of what they had done, shaking their heads as if all
were not right {what} they had done against so good a man, Luke 23.  Now, when two contraries are in a
contest, that overcomes which pre­serves its own nature, and turns the other
into some likeness unto itself; as we see fire transfuseth its own heat into
the water, forcing it to assimilate and yield to it. Thus a holy charitable
spirit, by forgiving an enemy, if it doth not prevail to turn an enemy’s heart
to him in love, yet then it turns an enemy’s con­science against himself, and
forceth him to condemn himself, and justify him whom he persecutes wrongfully.

           Direction Fourth.  Fortify thy faith on those promises
which have an especial respect to such a condition as persecution.  This is the saints’ victory over the
world, even their faith.  Thus
David, when Saul seemed to have him under his foot, and had driven him from
living in a court to earth himself for his safety in a cave of the wilderness,
yet by faith tri­umphed over his proud enemy, and sung as pleasantly in his
grot and earth‑hole as the merriest bird in the wood, ‘My heart is fixed, O
God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give praise,’ Ps. 57:7.  Saul had his body higher fed, but not
his heart fixed as David’s was, and therefore could not sing David’s tune.  A thousand thoughts and fears
distracted his head and heart, while David lives without fear and care, even
when his enemies are in the field a hunting for his life.  Faith on the promise will, like the
widow’s oil, not only set thee out of debt to all thy worldly fears and cares
which by thy troubles thou mayest contract, but afford thee enough to live
comfortably besides, yea, with joy unspeakable and glorious.  There are two sorts of sorrows that do
usually distress gracious souls most in their sufferings for Christ.  First. They are prone to be
troubled for their own persons and private affairs.  Second. For the cause of Christ which they bear
testimony unto, lest that should miscarry.  Now there is abundant provision laid up in the prom­ises to
ease the Christian’s heart of both these burdens.

 

[Provision in the
promises for the two sorts

of sorrows to which
believers are prone.]

 

           First.  Believers are at times prone to be
troub­led for their own persons and private affairs.  To meet this there is in the promises
an ample provision.  Ac­quaint thyself
with those promises that concern thy­self as a sufferer for Christ, and see
where any crevice is left unstopped, if thou canst, that may let in the least
air of suspicion in thy mind to disturb thy peace and discompose thy joy.  The promises are so many, and fitted so
exactly to every particular query of which the soul can desire satisfaction,
that it will require thy study and diligence to gather them.  God having chosen rather to scatter his
promises here and there promiscuously than to sort them and set every kind in a
distinct knot by themselves, we may think on pur­pose that we might be drawn
into an acquaintance with the whole Scripture, and not leave any one cor­ner
unsearched, but curiously observe it from one end to the other.  And let not the present peace of the
church cause thee to think it needless work.  The apothecary gathers his simples in the summer which haply
he may not use [i.e. until] winter.  And how soon persecution may arise thou knowest not.  The church ever hath had, and shall
have, its vicissitudes of summer and winter.  Yea, sometimes winter strikes in before it is looked for;
and then who is the man most likely to be offended?  Surely he that received the word with joy in the prosperous
estate of the church, but laid not in for foul weather.  Well, what is thy fear? whence comes
thy discouragement?  Art thou
scared with the noisomeness of the prison? or doth the terror of the fire, and
torture of the rack, affright thee? 
Know for thy comfort, if thy strength be too weak to carry thee through
them, thou shalt never be called to such hot service and hard work. The promise
assures thee as much, he ‘will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are
able,’ I
Cor. 10:13.

           God
who gives the husbandman his discretion with what instrument to thrash his
corn, as it is hard­er or softer, will not let the persecutor’s wheel come upon
thee that art not able to bear it. 
God gives us this very account why he led his people the further way
about—at their first coming out of Egypt—rather than by the land of the
Philistines—the far shorter cut of the two—‘for God said, Lest peradventure the
people repent when they see war, and they return to Egypt,’ Ex. 13:17.  See here God considers their weak­ness.  They cannot yet bear war, and therefore
they shall not be tried with it until more hardened for it. But if thou beest
called into the field to encounter with these bloody fiery trials, the promise
takes the whole care and charge of the war off thy hands: ‘When they deliver
you up, take no thought’—that is, disquieting, distrustful—‘how or what ye
shall speak: for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall speak,’ Matt. 10:19; and, it is
‘the Spirit of your Father which speaketh in you,’ ver. 20.  There is no mouth that God cannot make
eloquent; no back so weak which he cannot make strong.  And he hath promised to be with thee
wherever thy enemies carry thee; fire and water shall not part thee from his
sweet company.  These promises make
so soft a pillow for the saints’ heads that they have professed, many of them,
never to have lain at more ease than when most cruelly handled by their
merciless enemies. One dates his letter ‘from the delectable orchard his
prison;’ another subscribes herself, ‘Your loving friend, as merry as one bound
for heaven.’  They have been so far
from pitying themselves in their sufferings, that their chief sorrow hath been,
that they could be no more thankful for them.  And whence had they their strength?  Where drew they their joy?  Had they not both from the same Spirit
applying the promises to them?

           Second.  Believers are at times prone to be
troubled for the cause of Christ which they bear testi­mony unto, lest that
should miscarry.  As for this
trouble, though God takes the good-will to his cause and church very kindly,
from which those thy fears arise, yet there is no need of tormenting thyself,
be­liever, with that which is sure never to come to pass. The ark may shake,
but it cannot fall; the ship of the church may be tossed, but it cannot sink,
for Christ is in it, and will awake time enough to prevent its wreck. There is
therefore no cause for us, when the storm beateth hard upon it, to disturb him,
as once the dis­ciples did, with the shrieks and outcries of our unbe­lief, as
if all were lost.  Our faith is
more in danger of sinking at such a time than the cause and church of Christ
are.  They are both by the promise
set out of the reach of men and devils. 
The gospel is an ‘everlasting gospel,’ Rev. 14:6.  Heaven and earth shall pass away, but not one iota of this
shall perish, Matt.
5:18.  ‘The word of the Lord endureth for
ever,’ I
Peter 1:25,
and shall be alive to walk over all its enemies’ graves, yea, to see the
funeral of the whole world, when, at the great day of the Lord, it must be
everlast­ingly buried in its own ruins. 
And for the church, that is built upon a rock, impregnable.  ‘The gates of hell shall not prevail
against it,’ Matt.
16:18.  It hath been oft in the sea, but never
drowned; seldom out of the fire, but never consumed; sometimes swallowed up to
reason, but, like Jonah in the whale’s belly, cast up again, as too heavy a
charge for the strongest stomach that ever persecutor had to digest.  The faith of this hath carried the
blessed martyrs to the grave, when they swam to it in their own blood with joy,
because they knew the church should have the day at last, and that they left
others behind in pursuit of the victory on earth, while themselves were taken
out of the field to triumph in heaven. 
Yea some, by prophetic spirit have foretold the very time when the
persecuted truths, that were then buried with so much ignominy and scorn,
should have a happy resurrection and vic­tory over their proud enemies.  Thus John Huss cited his enemies to
answer him a hundred years after, comforting himself, that though they then
‘burned the goose’—alluding to his own name—‘a swan’ would come in his stead,
that should fill the air with his sweet singing, which was fulfilled in Luther,
whose doctrine went far and near, and charmed the hearts of multitudes
everywhere.  And Hiltenius, another
Ger­man divine, alleviated the miseries he endured in his stinking prison—where
he died for rubbing the monks sores too hard—with this, that another, naming
the very time, 1516, should arise after him, that would ruin the monks’
kingdom—whose abuses he had but gently reproved—and that they should not be
able to resist his power, nor so much as fasten a chain upon him; which came to
pass in Luther; for, to a miracle, he was kept out of the hands of his bloody
enemies, though never man’s blood more thirsted for.

 

 

BRANCH SECOND.

 

[Directions how to use the sword

of the word against heretics.]

 

           Now
the second enemy that comes forth against the Christian is the heretic or
seducer, who is so much more to be feared than the former by how much it is
worse to part with God's truth than our own life; to be corrupted in our minds
than to be tortured in our members; in a word, to have our souls damned by God
than our bodies killed by man.  If
the martyrs had feared death more than heresy, they would not have leaped into
the persecutors’ flames rather than consent to their doctrine.  Now, that thou mayest be able to lift
up this sword of the Spirit—the only weapon to defend thee—with victory against
this dan­gerous enemy, apply thyself in the use of the best means with thy
utmost care to find out the true sense and meaning of the Spirit in his
word.  This sword in another’s hand
will defend thee not.  No, it must
be in thy own, or else thou canst not have the benefit of it.  The phrase and outward expression are
but the shell, the sense and meaning is the pearl, which thou, like a wise
merchant, shouldst seek for.  To
tumble over a chapter and not reach the mind of God therein held forth, and to
tumble over a prayer in an un­known tongue, are both alike, ‘He that hath an
ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; Rev. 2:7.  We are to listen what the Spirit saith
in the word as we hear or read it. 
And he that hath an ear for the Spirit will not have an ear for the
seducer.

           Now
to help thee in thy search for the sense and meaning of the word, these
directions, I hope, may stand thee in some stead.  First. Take
heed thou comest not to the Scriptures with an unholy heart.  Second.
Make not thy own reason the rule by which thou measurest Scripture truths.  Third.
Take heed thou comest not with a judgment preengaged to any party or
opinion.  Fourth. Go to God by prayer for a key to unlock the
mysteries of his word.  Fifth. Compare scripture with scripture.  Sixth.
Consult with thy faithful guides which God hath set over thee in his church.

           Direction First.  Take heed thou comest not to the
Scriptures with an unholy heart. 
If ever you know the mind of God in his word, the Spirit must impart it
to you.  And will he that is so
holy take thee by thy foul hand, thinkest thou, to lead thee into truth?  No, thy doom is set: ‘None of the
wicked shall understand,’ Dan.
12:10.  The angel who took Lot’s daughters into
the house smote the Sodomites with blindness, that they might grope for the
door and not find it.  And so are
those like to be served that come with unclean hearts to the word.  ‘Without are dogs:’ not only without
heaven at last, but without the true knowledge of God on earth.  The wicked have the word of God, but
the holy soul hath ‘the mind of Christ,’ I Cor. 2:16.  Therefore the same apostle ex­horts us that we ‘be not
conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind,
that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God,’
Rom. 12:2.  And what amounts this to, but if we
will have truth for our guest, and be acquainted with the mind and will of God,
we must prepare a holy heart for its lodging?  They commonly are taken captive by seducers who were before
prisoners of their lusts, ‘and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led
away with divers lusts,’ II
Tim. 3:6, 7.  When David would beg understanding in
the word, he makes his purpose for a holy life the argument with which he
urgeth God: ‘Teach me, O Lord, the way of thy statutes; and I shall keep it
unto the end. Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; yea, I shall
observe it with my whole heart,’ Ps. 119:33, 34.

           Direction Second.  Make not thy own reason the rule by
which thou measurest Scripture truths.  Is that fit to try the revelations of the word by, which is
dunced and posed with so many secrets in nature? Doth not the word reveal such
things to us as are not only above sense, for eye hath not seen them, nor ear
heard them; but also above the ken of reason? being such as never ‘entered into
the heart of man,’ I
Cor. 2:9.  Indeed the whole system of gospel
truths speaks in a foreign and outlandish tongue to reason; it can make no
sense of them, except faith be the inter­preter.  The Scriptures are like the Red Sea, through which the
Israelites by faith passed safely, but the Egyptians attempting to do it, for
want of that guide were drowned.  A
humble believer passeth through the deep mysteries of the word safely, without
plung­ing into any dangerous mistakes; whereas those sons of pride, who leave
faith and take reason for their guide, we see how they are drowned in many dam­nable
errors, Arianism, Pelagianism, Socinianism, and what not.  The most dangerous errors fathered upon
the Scriptures have sprung from this womb.  This was the Sadducees’ ground on which they went for their
denying the resurrection of the dead. 
They owned the book of Moses for the word of God, and yet denied the
resurrection asserted therein; because it seemed so impossible a thing to their
reason that our bodies, after so many alterations into slime and dust, should
stand up in life.  This their
reason laughed at; for so our Saviour’s answer plainly shows, ‘Ye do err, not
knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God,’ Matt. 22:29.

           Direction Third.  When thou consultest with the word, take
heed thou comest not with a judgment pre-engaged to any party and opinion.  He is not like to hold the scales even
whose judgment is bribed be­forehand. 
A distempered eye sees the object of that colour with which itself is
affected; and a mind pre­possessed will be ready to impose its own sense upon
the word, and so loseth the truth by an overweening conceit of his own
opinion.  Too many, alas! read the
Scriptures not so much to be informed by them, as confirmed in what already
they have taken up!  They choose
opinions, as Samson his wife, because they please them, and then come to gain
the Scriptures’ consent.  Thus the
Jews first made up the match with their idols, and then ask counsel of God what
they should do, Eze.
14:4.  It is a just judgment of God, that such
should not see the truth when it lies fair before them, but be given up to an
injudicious heart, to be­lieve the word favours their fancies, and chimes as
they think.  ‘I the Lord will
answer him...ac­cording to the multitude of his idols: that I may take the
house of Israel in their own heart,’ Eze. 14:4, 5.  And when is a man taken in his own heart, if not when
ensnared in the fancies and follies which his erroneous mind hath weaved?

           Direction Fourth.  Go to God by prayer for a key to
unlock the mysteries of his word. 
It is not the plodding but the praying soul that will get this treasure
of Scripture-knowledge.  St. John
got the sealed book opened by weeping, Rev. 5:5.  God oft brings a truth to the Christian’s hand as a return
of prayer, which he had long hunted for in vain with much labour and study;
there is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets, Dan. 2:22.  And where doth he reveal the secrets of his word but at the
throne of grace? ‘From the first day that thou didst set thine heart to
understand, and to chasten thyself before thy God, thy words were heard, and I
am come for thy words,’ i.e. for thy prayer, Dan. 10:12.  And what was this heav­enly messenger’s
errand to Daniel but to open more fully the Scripture to him? as appears by
ver. 14, compared with ver. 21. 
This holy man had got some knowledge by his study in the word, and this
sets him a praying, and prayer fetched an angel from heaven to give him more
light.  If ever we know the mind of
God, we must be beholden to the Spirit of God for it. ‘When he, the Spirit of
truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth,’ John 16:13.  And the Spirit is the fruit of Christ’s
intercession: ‘I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another
Comforter,’ &c.  Now there must
be a concurrence of our prayers with his intercession.  While our High-priest is offering in­cense
within the vail, we are to be praying without for the same thing that he is
interceding within.  Now to quicken
thee up to pray with more fervent impor­tunity for this manuduction of the Holy
Spirit to lead thee into truth,

 

[Means to quicken us to pray with more

fervour for the
leading of the Holy Spirit.]

 

           First
Means.  Let the dread of
those scriptures which set forth the danger of errors and false doc­trines fall
upon thee, that thou mayest not think thou goest upon a slighty errand,
when praying to be pre­served from them, as if the odds were not great, whether
thou hast thy request or hast it not. 
It is one of the devil’s master-policies, by sinking the price of errors
in the thoughts of men, to make them thereby the more vendible.  Many think they shall not pay so dear
for an error in judgment as for a sin in practice. Yea, some have such a
latitude, that they fancy a man may be saved in any religion—a principle that
must needs tend to make them that hold it careless and incurious in their
choice.  That sin shall not want
cus­tomers which men think they shall pay little or noth­ing for.  Some can be content to be drunk on free
cost, that would not, were they assured their own purse should pay soundly for
the reckoning.  How comes
fornication to abound so much among the Romish clergy, but because it is
counted so petty a sin by them? 
And I wish that error and heresy—which are the fornication of the
mind—were not by many among ourselves sized as low.  But woe to those clerks of the devil’s market, that tempt
and toll men on to sin by setting cheaper rates on their head than the word of
God hath done.  If once the dread
of a sin be word off the conscience, no wonder then if we see men as boldly
leap upon it, as the frogs in the fable on the log, that lay so still and tame
at the bottom of the river.  Fear
makes the body more apt to take in­fection, but it preserveth the soul from the
infection of sin.

           Now
that thou mayest the more stand in fear of drinking in the poison of any
corrupt and unsound doctrine, let thy mind ponder on a few scriptures, which
show both their detestable, and also damning nature of them.  Gal. 5:19, there heresy is called ‘a work of
the flesh,’ and reckoned among those sins which shut the doors of them out of
heaven; ‘they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God,’ ver. 21.  They are called ‘doctrines of devils,’ I Tim. 4:1.  And if they come from the devil,
whither must they lead but to hell? 
Such as are against the fundamental principles of the gospel are
inconsistent with the love and favour of God.  He that ‘abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not
God,’ II
John 9.  And who, think you, shall have him that
hath not God? Were there no other scripture against this kind of sin, but that
one, II
Peter 2:1,
it were enough to strike the heretic through his loins, and make the knees of
every seducer, like Belshazzar’s at the sight of the ‘handwriting on the wall,’
to knock one against the other. 
‘But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there
shall be false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable heres­ies,
even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift
destruction.’  So that if a man
hath a mind to get the start of other sinners, and desires to be in hell before
them, he need do no more than open his sails to the wind of heretical doctrine,
and he is like to make a short voyage to hell of it; for these bring upon their
maintainers ‘swift destruction.’ Nay, the Spirit of God, the more to aggravate
their deplored state brings in three most dreadful instances of divine
vengeance that ever was executed upon any sinners, viz. the detrusion of the
apostate angels from heaven to hell, the drowning of the old world, and the
conflagration of Sodom and Gomorrah by raining hell, as it were, out of heaven
upon them.  I say, he brings these
as patterns and pledges of that vengeance which shall certainly befall this
kind of sinners.  And by this time
I hope thou wilt be warm in thy prayer against this dangerous enemy.  But,

           Second
Means.  When thou hast thus
possessed thy heart with the dread of being led into any corrupt opinion, then strengthen
then thy faith from those comfortable scriptures which assure thee that no sin­cere
saint shall be left to fall finally into any soul-damning error.  Christ is as able for, and faithful in,
his prophetic and kingly offices, as his priestly. Surely he will not have the
least care of his people’s under­standing, which is guide to their whole man,
and is that faculty which he first practiseth upon in the work of conversion.
Thou hast therefore as strong ground to believe he will preserve thee from
damnable princi­ples as damnable practices.  It would be little advan­tage to be kept from one enemy, and
left open to the will and power of another.  Christ’s hedge comes round about his people.  Solomon tells us, ‘The mouth of strange
women is a deep pit: he that is abhorred of the Lord shall fall therein,’ Prov. 22:14. And so is
the mouth of the seducer, who comes with strange doctrines—whorish
opinions.  Now who is this pit
digged for?  Indeed, if we look at
Satan’s design, it is a trap chiefly laid to catch the saint; he would, if
possible, ‘deceive the very elect.’ 
His great­est ambition is to spread his banners in this temple of God,
and defile them whom God hath washed. 
But if we eye God’s intention, it is a pit he suffers to be made for
hypocrites and false gospellers—such who would never heartly close with Christ
and his truth. These are they whom God abhors, and therefore they are left by
him to become a prey to those that go a birding for souls with their corrupt
doctrines. ‘Because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be
saved; and for this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should
believe a lie: that they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but
had pleasure in unrighteousness,’ II Thes. 2:10-12.  These, like the outsetting deer, are
shot, while they within the pale are safe; or, like the sub­urbs, taken by the
enemy, but those within the city escape their fury.  It is the outward court that is left to be trampled
underfoot, Rev.
11:2.  And in the fore-quoted place in the
epistle to the Thessalonians —though he gives up hypocrites to be deceived by
false teachers, as once Ahab by those knights of the post his false
prophets—yet, ver.
13
he speaks com­fortably to the elect, and shows that the same decree which
appointed them to salvation provided also for their embracing the truth, as the
necessary means leading thereunto. 
‘But we are bound to give thanks alway to God for you, brethren beloved
of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation
through sanctification of the Spirit and be­lief of the truth.’  And if God had got possession of the
head by his truth, and of the heart by his sancti­fying grace, he will keep
them out of Satan’s clutches.

           Go,
therefore, and plead the promise for thy preservation.  The promise improved by faith at the
throne of grace will be thy best antidote in these times of general infection.
Never fear speeding when the promise bids thee ‘go and prosper.’  The mercy is granted before thou askest
it; only God will have thee by prayer lay claim to it, before thou beest
possessed of it.  And for thy help
I have set down some sweet promises of this nature, with which, if thou
acquaint­est thyself, thou mayest be furnished both with grounds for thy faith,
and arguments for thy prayer in this case, Matt. 24:24; John 7:12; 10:5, 29; I Cor.
11:19; Php. 3:15; I John 2:19, 20.

           Direction Fifth.  Compare scripture with scripture.  False doctrines, like false witnesses,
agree not among them­selves.  Their
name may be called ‘Legion, for they are many.’  But truth is one; it is homogeneal.  One scripture sweetly harmonizeth with
another.  Hence it is, though there
were many pen­men of sacred writ, and those of several ages, one after another,
yet they all are said to have but one mouth; ‘As he spake by the mouth of his
holy proph­ets, which have been since the world began,’ Luke 1:70. All had
one mouth, because they accord so perfectly together.  The best way, therefore, to know the mind of God in one text
is to lay it to another.  The lapi­dary
useth one diamond to cut another. 
So should we one place of Scripture to interpret another.  Scrip­tures compared, like glasses set
one against another, cast a light each to the other.  ‘They (i.e. the Levites) read in the book in the  law of God distinctly, and gave the
sense, and caused them to understand the reading,’ Neh. 8:8.  Et exponendo sensum dabant
intelligentiam per Scripturam ipsam—so Tremelius reads the words—they gave
them the meaning of what they read, by the Scripture itself.

           Now,
in comparing scripture with scripture, be careful thou interpretest obscure
places by the more plain and clear, and not the clear by the dark.  Error creeps into the most shady
obscure places, and there takes sanctuary.  ‘Some things hard to be understood, which they that are
unstable wrest.’  No wonder they
should stumble in those dark and difficult places, when they turn their back on
that light which plainer scriptures afford to lead them safely through.  ‘He that is born of God keepeth
himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not,’ I John 5:18.  This is a dark place, which some run
away with, and from it con­clude there is a perfect state free from all sin
attain­able in this life; whereas a multitude of plain scrip­tures testify
against such a conclusion, I Kings 8:38; Prov. 20:9; Ecc. 7:20; Job 9:20; Php. 3:12;
I John 1:8-10, with many more. 
So that it must be in a limited and qualified sense that he ‘that is
born of God sinneth not.’  He sins
not finally or comparatively, not as the carnal wretch doth.  ‘And the wicked one toucheth him not,’ i.e.
non tactá qualitativo, as Cajetan saith—not so as to transfuse his own
nature and disposition into him; as the fire toucheth the iron or wood it comes
near, assimilating them to its own nature.  This rule of using plain scriptures to be a key for to
unlock obscure, will hold in all other instances.  And blessed be God, though to tame our pride he hath
inserted some knotty passages, yet the necessary saving truths are of easy
access even to the weakest understanding. 
Salubritèr Spiritus Sanctus ita, modificavit, ut locis apertioribus
fami oc­curreret, obscurioribus fastidia detergeret (Aug. de Doc. Ch. lib.
ii. c. 6)—there
is enough in the plain places of Scripture to keep the weak from starving, and
in the obscure to lift them above con­tempt of the strongest.

           Direction Sixth.  Consult with thy faithful guides
which God hath set over thee in his church. Though people are not to pin
their faith on the min­ister’s sleeve, yet they are to ‘seek the law at his
mouth: for he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts,’ Mal. 2:7.  Christ directs his kids for their safe­ty,
that they turn not aside into by‑paths of error, and fall not into the hands of
false teachers—those cheating companions—that they go ‘go forth by the
footsteps of the flock, and feed...beside the shepherds’ tents,’ Song 1:8.  The devil knows too well—‘send away the
shepherd and he may soon catch the sheep.’  And these times prove sadly that he is not mistaken. When
were people’s affections more withdrawn from their ministers?  And when were their judgments more
poisoned with error?  Of what sort,
I pray, are those that have been trapanned[5] into
dangerous er­rors in our late unhappy times?  Have they not most this brand upon them?  Are they not such who would sooner
hearken to a stranger—may be a Jesuit in a buff‑coat or with a blue apron
before him?—seek to any mountebank that comes they know not whence, is here to‑day
and gone tomorrow, than to their own ministers, who from God have the rule over
them, and watch for their souls as they that must give account to God for them;
yea, who from many years’ experience in life and doctrine they have found able
and faithful?  In the fear of God
consider this.  They are not your
ministers—I speak as to the most—in their pulpits and public ministry, but
these hucksters and quack-salvers in corners practicing upon you, that privily
have brought in damnable doctrines, and leav­ened so great a lump of people in
the nation with sour and unsound doctrine.  If thou wouldst therefore be preserved from error, make use,
as of the sword of the word in thy own hand, so of the holy skill that God hath
given thy faithful minister for thy defence. Wait on his public ministry,
praying for divine assis­tance to be poured down on him, and a divine bless­ing
from his labours to fall on thyself. 
If at any time thou art in the dark concerning his message, resort to
him, and I dare promise thee—if he answers his name, and be a faithful minister
of the gospel—an easy access and hearty welcome to him.  Only come to learn, not cavil; to have
thy conscience satisfied, not any itch of vain curiosity rubbed.  Our Saviour, who was so willing to
satisfy his disciples concerning the doctrine he publicly preached, that in
private he opened it to them more fully, yet when they came with nice and
curious questions, did rather choose to repel that humour by a reproof than
cherish it by a satisfying answer. 
‘It is not for you to know the times or the seasons;’ and at another
time, ‘If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? follow thou
me.’  He takes Peter off from a
profitable question to ind a necessary duty.

 

BRANCH THIRD.

 

[Directions how to use the sword

 of the word against lusts.]

 

           The
third enemy we are to fight is made up of an army of lusts lodged within our
own bosoms, which have Satan to head and lead them forth against us. And
who that believes he hath a soul to lose or save can be unwilling to engage
against this cursed com­bination of lusts and devils?  The Romans were said, when in war with other nations, to
fight for honour and glory; but against the Carthaginians for their very life
and being.  In this war against sin
and Satan both lie at stake.  This,
this is the most noble war of all other.

           It
is noble, because just.  It
is too true, I fear, what one saith of the wars which  the great monarchs of this world wage one against another,
‘that the cause is very seldom so clear for which they take arms but there is
some ground of scruple left in the conscience of the undertaker.’  But here we are put out of all doubt.  This, without abusing the name, may be
called, ‘the holy war.’  For it is
against the only enemy that the holy God hath in the world, who hath himself
taken the field, and set up his royal standard in defi­ance of it; to which he
calls all mankind, some by the voice of a natural conscience, and others by the
loud sound of his word, to repair, and upon our allegiance to him, our
sovereign Lord and Creator, to help him ‘against the mighty;’ not because he
needs our help, but [because he] expects our duty, and had rather re­ward our
loyalty than punish our rebellion. 
Some have been found who for shame have killed them­selves, that their
prince through their cowardice had lost the victory.  O what confusion then will one day fill our faces if we, by
our faintness or treachery, do what lies in us [to] help Satan and sin to
triumph over God himself!

           But
again, it is a noble war, because hard and difficult.  This is an enemy stout and stubborn,
such as will try both our skill and strength to the utter­most.  Never did coward overcome in this
war.  What sin loseth is by inches,
and what it gains hardly lets go. 
They who follow this war closest will find a life’s work at least of
it.  O you that love brave
exploits, and hunt for enterprises that only a few generous spirits dare
undertake, here is that you look for. 
Fighting with men and storming of castles is but children’s play to this
encounter, where devils and lusts are to be repelled.  ‘He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he
that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city,’ Prov. 16:32.  ‘Better,’ because he over­comes a worse
enemy, infinitely more potent and puissant.  Few, alas! of the world’s swordsmen, so famed for their
conquests, but have lived and died slaves to sin!—cowardly submitting the neck
of their souls to draw the iron chariot of a base lust, while they have proudly
sat to be drawn in triumph by those whom they have taken prisoners in war.  Thus as Hannibal was beaten at home in
his own country, who was a victor in his foreign expeditions; so too, many that
do great feats in arms abroad, which makes them famous in this world, are
miserably beaten and shamefully trampled upon by their own corruptions at home,
that will make them much more infamous in the other world.

           But
be not you, O ye saints, dismayed at the report of your enemies’ strength and
number.  The greater will be your
victory, and the more your cap­tives to draw your triumph and chariot.  Neither let your hearts faint to see
the conquering Cæsars des­poiled of their ensigns of honour by this enemy,
which themselves had won from others, and to die in chains slaves to their
lusts, that had lived conquerors over men.  Remember, for your comfort, it is but the unbelieving
world—such as are without spiritual arms, and so abandoned of God—that are left
thus to become a prey to sin and Satan. 
But you have a God on your side, who gives you the consecrated sword of
his word for your defence—a weapon whose edge Satan hath already felt, and
therefore trembles whenever faith draws it forth.  He that made this levi­athan, as is said of the other, Job 40:19, can make
this his sword to approach to him, and the heart of all thy lusts also.  But I forbear; my task in this place
being not to excite you to, but direct you in, the manage­ment of your fight
with this your enemy, and that also only by teaching you the use of this one
weapon, the word of God, in order to repelling motions to sin from within, or
temptations to it from Satan without. First,
therefore, Take some pains to collect out of the word the several lineaments
with which the Spirit of God doth paint out the deformity of sin, that so thou
mayest make it the more odious and hateful to thy thoughts.  Second.
Provide thyself with Scripture answers to Satan’s false reasonings.  Third.
Hide the word in thy heart.  Fourth. Plead the promise against sin at
the throne of grace.

 

[We are to collect
out of the word the

several lineaments of
sin’s deformity.]

 

           Direction First.  Take some pains to collect out of
the word the several lineaments with which the Spirit of God doth paint out the
deformity of sin, that so thou mayest make it the more odious and hateful to
thy thoughts, when, by laying them together, thou shalt see in its true
picture and portraiture—drawn by so skilful and faithful a hand—the fair face
of this goodly lady, whose beauty Satan doth so highly com­mend to thy wanton
embraces.  Poor man sins upon
Satan’s credit, and receives it into his bosom, as Jacob did his wife into his
bed—before he sees its face, or knows well what it is—and therefore, as he in
the morning found her to be, not that beautiful Rachel as was promised, but a
blear‑eyed Leah; so the sinner, too late—when his conscience awakes—sees
himself miserably cheated, and disappointed of what he looked for, and finds a
purgatory where he expected a paradise. 
Now, that thou mayest, Christian, the better see the ugly shape of this
monster sin, observe from the word of God these four particulars concerning it.  First. The birth and extraction
of it. Second. The names given it. 
Third. Its nature. 
And, Fourth. Its properties.

 

[Four particulars
concerning sin,

taken from the word
of God.]

 

           First
Particular.  The birth and
extraction of sin. Who is its father, and from whom is it descended? The
holy God disowns it.  The sun can
as soon beget darkness, as God, who is ‘the Father of lights,’ be the author of
sin.  From him comes ‘every good
and per­fect gift,’ James
1:17.  But, O sin, whence art thou? Thou art
not his creature; he neither made thee, nor ever moved any to thy
production.  Certainly if it were
from him he would like and love it. 
Every one loves his own child, though never so black.  Much more doth God like what is his.  We find him looking back upon every
day's work of the creation, and upon all at last, pleased with what he had
done, all ‘was very good,’ Gen. 1:31. 
But of sin what he thinks, see Deut. 7:25, 26; Prov. 6:16; Rev. 2:6, 15,
where he ex­presseth his detestation and hatred of it, from which hatred
proceed all those direful plagues and judg­ments thundered from the fiery mouth
of his most holy law against it. 
Nay, not only the work, but the worker also, of iniquity, becomes the
object of his hatred, Ps.
5:5.  So that if God were the author of sin,
he would be a hater of himself. 
Well, at whose door then doth God lay this brat to find a father?  Surely at the devil’s: ‘Ye are of your
father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do,’ John 8:44.  And again in the same place, ‘When he
speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of
it.’  Sin is a brat which calls the
devil both father and mother. For of himself, even of his own free will—the
womb wherein it was conceived—did he beget it; and having begot it, put it out
to nurse to man.  And is not man,
who was made to serve and enjoy the great God his Maker, highly set up, to
suckle and carry this his infernal child about in his arms?  Ah, poor man, whence art thou
fallen?  It is strange that the
very remembering whose offspring thyself wert doth not strike thee into a
horror, to see thy precious soul de­based unto such servitude as to fulfil the
lusts of that cursed spirit.  Never
let us spit at the witch for suffer­ing the devil’s imps to suck on her body,
while we can prostitute our souls to any of his lusts.

           Second
Particular.  The names and
titles with which the word stigmatizeth sin.  And God, to be sure, miscalls none.  If a thing be sweet, he will not say it
is bitter; if good, he will not call it evil.  For he claps a woe upon his head that doth so, Isa. 5:20. Never
think to find honey in the pot when God writes poison on its cover.  We may say of every sin in this respect
what Abigail of her husband—as is its name in Scripture, so is it.  If God call it folly, then there is no
wisdom to be found in it.  The devil
indeed teacheth sinners to cover foul practices with fair names. Super­stition
must be styled devotion; covetousness, thrift; pride in apparel, handsomeness;
looseness, liberty; and madness, mirth. 
And truly there is great need for sinners to do thus, to make this
fulsome dish go down with less regret. 
There are some have made a hearty meal of horseflesh, or the like
carrion, under a better name, whose stomachs would have risen against it if
they had known what it was. 
Therefore as persecu­tors of old wrapped the Christians in the skins of
those beasts which would render them the most desir­able prey to those they
were cast; so Satan and our false hearts present sins to us under those names
that will sharpen our appetites to them, or at least take away the abhorrence
our consciences else would show against them.

           But
canst thou be content, poor soul, to be so easily cheated?  Will the fire burn thee the less, into
which thou art emboldened to put thy finger, because a knave that owes thee and
ill turn tells thee that it will not hurt thee?  Hear rather what the God of truth saith of sin, and by what
names he calls it, and you shall find that whatever is dreaded by us, or hated,
feared, or loathed, in all the world, they are borrowed, and applied to sin—the
vomit of dogs; the venom of serpents; the stench of rotten sepulchres;
dunghills and jakes; the deadliest diseases and sores, gangrenes, leprosies,
and plague, attributed to it, II Peter 2:22; Luke 3:7; Rom. 3:13; II Tim. 2:17; I Kings
8:38;
yea, hell is raked for an expression to set it out—it being compared to the
very fire of hell itself, James
3:6.  And because of their penury and
straitness of these appellations —therefore it is called by its own name, as
the worst that God himself can say thereof, ‘sinful’ sin, Rom. 7:13.  Now what shall be done to the thing
that the great God thus loathes, and loads with such names of dishonour,
thereby to signify his abhorrence of it? What?  Every gracious heart will soon resolve, that he should
pursue it with fire and sword, till we have executed upon it the judgement
written in its utter ruin and destruction.

           Third
Particular.  The nature of
sin, as the word defines it. 
See its description, ‘sin is the transgression of the law,’ I John 3:4—a few
words, but of weight enough to press the soul that commits it to hell, yea to
press sin itself to death in the heart of a saint, if laid on with these
considerations—

           1.
Whose law it is by sinning we break.  It is not that of some petty prince—and yet such conceive
their honour so deeply concerned in their laws, that they take vengeance on the
violators of them—but of the great God, whose glorious name is in every attri­bute
assaulted and reproached by the sinner, yea the very life and being of God is
endeavoured to be des­troyed.  Peccatum
est deicidium—sin is deicide. 
For he that would rob God of his honour is an enemy to his very being;
because God’s being is so wrapped up in his glory, that he cannot outlive the
loss of it. These, it is true, are above the reach of the sinner’s short arm,
but that is no thanks to him, because his sin aims at these, though it cannot
carry its shot so far as to hurt him.

           2.
What law it is; not cruel, written with the blood of his creatures, as
the laws of some tyrant princes are, who consult their own lust, and not their
people’s good, in their edicts. 
But this law is equal and good; in {the} keeping of which is life.  So that no provocation is given by any
rigour of unnecessary taxes imposed upon us to rise up against it.  ‘What iniquity,’ saith God, ‘have your
fathers found in me, that they are gone far from me?’ Jer. 2:5.  He that put away his wife was to give
her a bill of divorce, de­claring the cause of his leaving her.  Thus God con­descends to expostulate
with sinners, and asks what evil they can charge upon him or his government
that they forsake him.  But, alas!
no more cause can be given than why a beast, in a fat sweet pasture, should
break the hedge to get into a barren heath or a dirty lane, where nothing but
starving is to be had.

           3.
At whose notion the poor creature transgres­seth the good law of God,
and that is of a cursed spirit the devil, no less our enemy than God’s enemy.  Now for a child at the solicitation of
his father’s greatest enemy, and his own also, to take up rebellious arms
against a dear loving parent, adds to the monstrosity and unnaturalness of the
fact.  This thou dost, Chris­tian,
when by sin thou transgressest the law of God. And now, by this time, methinks
I see thy blood to rise and boil with anger in thee, while thy God points to
thy sin and tells thee, ‘This, O my child, is the enemy that would take away my
glory and life too by thy means—who by debt both of nature and grace owest thy
whole self to live and die for the maintain­ing of my honour!’  Art thou not as ready to fall upon thy
sin, and drag it to execution, as the servants of Ahasuerus were to lay hold of
Haman, and cover his face as a son of death, when their prince did but vent his
wrath conceived against him? Est. 7:8. 
Certainly, were but the love of God well kindled in our bosoms, we
should even spit fire on the face of any that durst tempt us to sin against
him.

           Fourth
Particular.  The properties
of sin dis­covered by the word of God.  I shall content myself with three.  It hath, 1. A defiling property.  2. A disturbing property.  3. A damning property.

           1.
Sin hath a defiling property, called ‘filthiness of flesh and spirit,’ II Cor. 7:1.  It besmears both.  ‘The whole world’ is said to, ‘lie in
wickedness,’ as a beast in his dung and ordure, or as a rotten carcass, in its
slime and putrefaction, I
John 5:19.  It is that leprosy which infects man,
and the very house he lives in also. Wherefore did God send the flood in Noah’s
time, but to wash away that filthy generation as dung from the face of the
earth?  But, because this
pest-house of the world is not cleared sufficiently, it is reserved for a more
thorough purgation by fire at the last day.  Do but think, Christian, what a beauty man was till he was
pock-broken—if I may say so—by sin, and what a glory shined upon the whole
creation before sin, by its poisonous breath, had dimmed and blasted it; and
then guess what a filthy thing it is—what a strong poison it is that not only
diffused its malignity through the soul and body of man, but had such dire­ful
effects upon the whole compages and frame of the visible creation, that it will
never come to its first beauty, till, like a battered, cankered piece of plate,
it be melted and refined by a universal conflagration. And is not your soul yet
loathed with the thoughts of sin? 
Some beasts, they say, the ermine for one, will die before she will be
got in the dirt to defile her beautiful skin.  And wilt thou, Christian—and that after it hath cost Christ
his blood to purchase his Spirit for thy cleansing—bedabble thyself in sin’s
puddle?  God forbid!  Did Ezekiel so abhor to eat man’s dung
imposed on him by God that he cries out, ‘Ah Lord God! behold, my soul hath not
been pollu­ted?’ &c., Eze.
4:14.  And is any unclean lust, which God
himself compares to no better thing, so dainty a bit as to be desired by thee,
Christian, who has sat at Christ's table, and knowest what entertainment there
is to be had?  Methinks thou
shouldst rather cry out with the prophet, ‘Ah, Lord God! my soul hath not been
(or at least let it not be) polluted with this abominable thing.’

           2.
Sin hath a disturbing property. 
Sin, it breaks the peace of the soul, yea of the whole world.  It brings confusion with it, and makes
the place a seat of war wherever it comes. An army of evils are at its heels to
set down where it is lodged: ‘If thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door,’ Gen. 4:7.  ‘There is no peace, saith my God, to
the wicked,’ Isa.
57:21.  Here is God’s hand, we see, to the
warrant sentencing the sinner to the rack of a self-torturing conscience.  Who is able to express the anguish
which an accusing con­science feels, and those dreadful fits of convulsion with
which it rends and tears itself? 
One you hear roaring and crying out, ‘There is no soundness in my flesh
because of thine anger; neither...any rest in my bones because of my sin,’ Ps. 38:3.  Another, ‘while I suffer thy terrors I
am distracted,’ Ps.
88:15.  A third, ‘My punishment is greater than
I can bear,’ Gen.
4:13.
And a fourth, so unable to stand under the clamour of his guilt, that he runs
to the halter and hangs him­self to get out of the din and dolour it makes in
his ears, Matt.
27:5.  And is not he like to be well cured of
his torment that throws himself into hell-fire to find ease?  And as sin disturbs the inward peace of
the soul, so the outward peace of the world.  What else but sin hath put the world in an uproar, and set
all the creatures together by the ears? 
‘From whence come wars and fightings among you? come they not hence,
even of your lusts that war in your members?’ James 4:1.  This sets nearest relations at bitter feud, firing the house
over their heads, so that husband and wife, parents and children, cannot abide
together under one roof.  Delilah,
she betrays her husband into his bloody enemies’ hands.  And Absalom riseth up to take away the
life of his dear father.  This is
the whisperer that ‘separates chief friends,’ and makes those that have drunk
of our cup to lift up the heel upon us; and with whom we have ‘taken sweet coun­sel
together,’ to plot our ruin, and give counsel against our very life.  In a word, such a kindle-fire sin is,
that the flames it kindles fly not only from one neighbour’s house to the
other, but from one nation to another. 
All the water in the sea that runs between kingdom and kingdom, cannot
quench the wars it raiseth; but it makes men that live at one end of the world
thirst for the blood and treasure of those that live at the other.  So that the earth is but as a cockpit,
where there is little else but fighting and killing one another.  And is this the guest thou canst find
in thy heart to bid welcome within thy bosom?

           3.
Sin hath a damning property. 
If all the mis­chief sin did us was in this world, it were bad enough;
but considering our short stay here, it would give some ease to our thoughts,
that we should have done with it and this life together.  But to be worried here by it, and
damned for it also to eternal torments in another world, this is intolerable!  Methinks that place, ‘Depart from me,
ye cursed, into everlasting fire,’ Matt. 25:41, should make us sit down and con­sider,
whether any sin be so pleasurable or desirable, as should make it worth lying
in endless torments to obtain and enjoy it a few fleeting days and months, that
are at an end almost as soon as their beginning commenceth.  Thou knowest, sinner, already the best
of thy sinful pleasure, but not the worst of thy pun­ishment, which is so great
as loseth its chief emphasis by translating into our language, and clothing it
with expressions borrowed even from those things that most dread us in this
life.  Alas! what is the fire and
brimstone we see and fear so much here, to that which burns in the infernal
lake?  Truly, little more than
painted fire in the wall is to that which burns on our hearth.  This in our chimney was made for our
use and comfort chiefly, but the fire in hell—whether material or not is not
material to know—is for no other end than to torment sinners in.  This in our kit­chen is kindled by a
little puff of wind, and quenched by a little water; but ‘the breath of the
Lord, like a stream of brimstone, doth kindle that,’ Isa. 30:33.  And where shall we find buckets to
quench that which God kindles? 
They say smelling of the earth is healthful for the body, and taking in the
scent of this sulfurous pit by frequent meditation cannot but be as whole­some
for the soul.  If many had
descended thus into hell while on earth, their souls had not, it is like,
dropped into hell when their bodies fell into the grave.  O Christian! be sometimes walking in
the company of those places of Scripture which set out the state of the damned
in hell, and their exquis­ite torments there.  This is the true ‘house of mourning,’ and the going into it
by serious meditation is a sov­ereign means to make ‘the living lay it to
heart,’ and, laying it to heart, there is the less fear that thou wilt throw
thyself by thy impenitency into this so uncom­fortable a place, who art offered
so fairly a mansion in heaven’s blissful palace, upon thy faith and re­pentance.

 

[We are to provide
ourselves with Scripture

answers to Satan’s
false reasonings.]

 

           Direction Second.  Provide thyself with Scrip­ture
answers to Satan’s false reasonings with which he puts a fair colour on his
foul motions, the better to gain thy consent.  He is wily. 
Thou hadst need be wary.  He
doth not only propound the sinful object, but also sets a fair gloss upon it,
and urges the soul with arguments to embrace his offer.  And when sin comes thus forth
Goliath-like, it is not Saul’s armour, but the ‘smooth stones of the brook,’
not thy own res­olution, but the divinity of Scripture-arguments, that can
preserve thee, or prostrate thy enemy. 
Now, thou wilt find in the word an answer put into thy mouth to refel[6] all Satan’s
sophistry.  And this indeed is to
be an Apollos, ‘mighty in the Scripture,’ when we can stop the devil’s mouth,
and choke his bullets with a word seasonably interposed betwixt us and the temp­tation.  It will not therefore be amiss to give
a few instances whereby this
direction may be made more easily practicable in the hand of weaker Christians.
First. Sometimes Satan insinuates himself into a soul by endeavouring to
make one sin appear of no ac­count. 
Second. By giving an opportunity of commit­ting a sin in
secret.  Third. By the
example of others.

 

[Satan tempts to sin
by making one sin of no account.]

 

           First
Instance.  Sometimes Satan thus
insinuates himself into a soul—‘what, man, will one sin, if yielded to, so
much hurt thee?  One mole doth
not mar the beauty of the face, nor can one sin spoil the beauty of thy soul;
and it is no more than I am a suitor for. 
If I bade thee wallow in every puddle, thou mightst well abhor the
motion; but why art thou so afraid of one spot being seen on thy garment?  The best jewel hath its flaw, and the
holiest saint his failing.’  Now to
refel this motion, when so mannerly and modestly proposed

           1.
Answer.  The word will tell
thee that no sin is single. 
It is impossible to embrace or allow one sin, and be free of
others.  For,

           (1.)
He that yields to one sin casts contempt upon the authority that made the
whole law, and up­on this account, breaks it all.  ‘Whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one
point, he is guilty of all,’ James 2:10. 
And he gives the reason in the next words, ‘for he that said, Do not
commit adultery, said also, Do not kill.’ 
Now, if thou commit no adul­tery, yet if thou kill thou art a
transgressor of the law. Not that he is guilty of all distributively.
but collec­tively, as Estius well notes.  For the law is one copula­tive.  One com­mandment cannot be wronged, but all are interested
in the same; as the whole body suffers by a wound given to one part: ‘God spake
all these words,’ Ex.
20.  They are ten words, but one law.

           (2.)
By allowing one sin we disarm and deprive ourselves of having a
conscientious argument to de­fend ourselves against any other sin.  He that can go against his conscience
in one, cannot plead con­science against any other.  For, if the authority of God awes him from one, it will from
all.  ‘How can I do this,...and sin
against God?’ said Joseph.  I doubt
not but his answer would have been the same if his mis­tress had bid him lie
for her, as now when she enticed him to lie with her.  The ninth commandment would have bound him as well as the
seventh.  Hence the apostle exhorts
not to ‘give place to the devil, Eph. 4:27—implying, that by yielding to one we
lose our ground, and what we lose he gains; and let him alone to improve
advantages.  The little wimble once
en­tered, the workman can then drive a great nail.  One sin will widen thy swallow a little, that thou wilt not
so much strain at the next.

           (3.)
Allow one sin and God will give you over to other sins.  ‘Wherefore God also gave them up unto
uncleanness,’ Rom.
1:24.  The Gentiles gave them­selves to
idolatry, and God gave them up unto other beastly lusts, ver. 22.  When Judas began to play the thief, I
question whether he meant to turn traitor. No, his treason was a punishment for
his thievery.  He al­lowed himself
in a secret sin, and God gave him up to one more open and horrid.  But,

           2.
Answer.  Suppose thou
couldst—which is im­possible—take one sin into thy bosom, and shut all the rest
out, yet the word will tell thee that thou art a servant to that one sin,
and that thou canst not be so and a servant to God at the same time.

           (1.)
That thou wouldst be a servant to that one sin.  ‘His servants ye are to whom ye obey,’ Rom. 6:16; and
consequently the devil’s servants, whose kingdom you endeavour to hold up by
defending though this one castle, against God your Maker.  Neither will it excuse thee to say thou
intendest not so.  Haply, cov­etousness
is thy sin, and it is thy profit thou aimest at, not siding with the devil
against God.  Though this is not
thy express end who sinnest, yet it is the end of the sin which thou
committest, and of Satan that puts thee upon the work, and so will be charged
upon thee at last.  The common
soldier ordinarily looks no higher than his pay.  This is it draws him into the field.  Yet they make themselves traitors by
assisting him that leads them on against their prince; and it will not serve
the turn for them to say they fought for their pay, and not to dethrone him.  Ahab sold himself ‘to work evil in the
sight of the Lord,’ I
Kings 21:20.  And yet we read not that he made any
express covenant with the devil. 
But the meaning is, he did that which in effect amounted to no less.  He knew that if he sinned he should pay
his soul for it, and he would have his lust, notwithstanding he was ac­quainted
with its price; and therefore, interpreta­tively, he sold his soul that he
might enjoy his sin.

           (2.)
Thou mayest learn from the word that thou canst not be a servant to any one
sin and to God at the same time. 
‘No man can serve two masters; ye cannot serve God and mammon,’ Matt. 6:24.  By mam­mon is meant one particular
lust, covetousness.  One body may
as well have two souls, as one soul two mas­ters.  One soul hath but one love, and two cannot have the
supremacy of it.  I have heard,
indeed, of a wretch that said, ‘He had one soul for God, and another for the
devil also.’  But, if he hath one
soul in hell, I am afraid he will not find another for heaven. And one sin will
certainly send thee thither as a thousand.  ‘Be not deceived; neither fornicators, nor idolaters,’
&c., ‘shall inherit the kingdom of God.’ He doth not only exclude him that
is all these, but any of these.  It is certain that all men shall die, but all do not die of
the same disease.  And as certain
all im­penitent sinners shall be damned, but one is damned for one sin, and a
second for another.  But all meet
at last in the same hell.

 

[Satan tempts to sin
by opportunity given

for committing it in
secret.]

 

           Second
Instance.  May be thou art
tempted to sin by an opportunity of committing it in secret —where thou
shalt not pay the loss of thy credit for the purchase of thy pleasure.  This was the snare the simple young
man's foot was taken in, Prov.
7:19.  His strumpet tells him, ‘the good man
was from home;’ the coast was clear. 
They might drink their stolen waters without fear of being indicted for
the theft. Too many, alas! whom the shame of the world keeps from knocking at
the fore-door, are easily persuaded to sin if they may slip in at the
postern.  Saul himself, though
ashamed to go to a witch in his princely robe, because he had possessed the
world with an opinion of his hatred of that sin by putting such to death, yet
is not afraid to go incognito to one.  Therefore, as it added much to the weight of the temptations
with which the devil assaulted Christ, that he came to him in the wilderness
and solicited him but to a private, yea secret, acknowledging of him, where
none could tell tales what passed between them; so it doth to the glory of that
complete victory which Christ got over Satan in them all.  And how got Christ it, but by the sword
of the word?  Take thou, Christian,
therefore the same weapon up to defend thyself against the same enemy.

           1.
The word will tell thee that God is privy to thy most secret sins.  ‘Thou hast set our iniquities before
thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance,’ Ps. 90:8.  They are as plainly seen by him as
anything can be by us at noonday. 
Nay, he doth not only see and know them, but he sets them before him as
a mark to shoot his arrows of vengeance at.  So, Prov.
15:3,
‘the eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the
good.’  As he sees when thou
shuttest thy closet to pray in secret, and will re­ward thy sincerity; so
he seeth when thou dost it to sin in secret, and will reward thy
hypocrisy.  Now, if a king sitting
on his throne ‘scattereth away all evil with his eyes,’ Prov. 20:8, how much
more powerfully would the eye of God, if seen looking on us, chase away the
most secret motion that stirreth in our heart to sin!  Better all the world to see thee, than God, who hath the
wrong done him by the sin, and there­fore concerned in justice to do himself
right upon thee.  He cannot let any
sin go unpunished, because a righteous judge.  But there are some sins which require a more immediate hand
of divine vengeance than other, and therefore called ‘crying sins.’  And they are such which, either by the
place and power of the offender, man dares not punish, or else so secretly
committed, that man cannot take cognizance of the fact: as Cain’s bloody murder
of his brother—‘Thy brother’s blood crieth,’ Gen. 4:10.

           2.
The word will inform thee of an informer that thou hast in thy own bosom—thy
conscience, I mean, which goes along with thee, and is witness to all thy
fine-laid plots, and what it sees it writes down, for it is a court of
record.  Thou canst not sin so fast
but it can write after thee.  And
the pen with which con­science writes down our sins hath a sharp nib; it cuts
deep into the very heart and soul of the sinner.  The heathens, their thoughts are said to accuse them, Rom 2:15.  And no torment in the world comparable
to an accusing conscience.  ‘The
spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a wounded spirit who can bear?’
Prov.
18:14.  Who?  Not men, not angels. 
Nullus ocu­lus molestior cuique suo: non est aspectus quem tene­brosa
conscientia suffugere magis velit, minus possit (Bern.)—no eye affrights a
sinner more than his own; it is that which he most desires to run from, but
least can.  Such a poor wretch is
like Regulus in his barrel stuck with nails, which way soever he turns himself,
in vulnus inclinat, he is pricked and wounded.  O read those sad instances of Cain, Saul, and Judas, with
others upon Scripture record, who have been on this rack, and thou wilt be
afraid to sin where conscience stands by.

           3.
Consult ‘the word,’ and thou wilt find that God usually hath put them to
shame in this world, that have promised themselves most secrecy in their
sinning.  It is one of God’s
names to be a ‘revealer of secrets,’ Dan. 2:47.  And among other secrets, he for­gets not to ‘bring to light’
these ‘hidden things of darkness, I Cor. 4:5—those sins that are forged in a
darker shop than others—and that often in this world.  In these men speak what base thoughts they have of God, as
if he were a God of the day and not of the night; therefore to vindicate this
attribute, and to strike an inward fear thereof into the hearts of men, he doth
dig these foxes out of their holes wherein they earth themselves, and expose
their sins to the view of the world, which they thought none should have known
besides themselves and their partners in the sin.  Such an effect had the discovery of Ananias and Sapphira’s
secret sin.  ‘And great fear came
upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things,’ Acts 5:11, 13.

           See
therefore how God hath befooled men when they have arted it most in packing
their sins, to hide them from the world’s eye.  No art was wanting in the patriarchs to conceal their
unnatural sin against their brother. 
What a fair probable tale do they tell the old man their father, who
believed all, and inquired no further! 
How true were they among themselves, though so many in the plot; that
none of them should blab it out, at one time or another, was strange.  How long did this sleep before
discovered?  And what a strange
providence to bring their wickedness to light! So Gehazi played his part
cunningly enough, one would think, which made him so bold to come before his
master, and impudently lie to his head, not dream the least that he was privy
to his sin.  Yet this man is found
out, and for the garments he got of Naaman by a lie, he had another given of
the Lord, which he was to wear as a livery of his sin—for he was clothed with a
leprosy—a garment not as others, to hide his shame, but to discover it to all
the world—a garment more lasting than the two change of suits he had from the
Syrian; for this lasted him all his life; neither was it then worn out, but to
be put on by his children after him, II Kings 5:27.  In a word, be he never such a saint, yet if he goes about to
save himself from the shame of a sin by any secret plot of wickedness, he takes
the direct way to bring that upon him which he contrives to keep off.  Uriah’s blood was shed only as a sinful
expedient to save David’s credit, that would have suffered if his folly with
Bathsheba should become a town-talk. 
And how sped he with this his plot?  Ah, poor man! all comes out to his greater shame.  David shall know that God will be as
tender of his own hon­our, as he is of his credit; ‘for thou didst it secretly:
but I will do this thing before all Israel, and before the sun,’ II Sam. 12:12.  Yea, David himself at last is sick of
his own plot, and was not at first more studi­ous to hide his sin, than he was
afterwards willing to acknowledge it; and therefore we find him, Ps. 51, standing
as it were in a white sheet, and doing voluntary penance for his sin in all the
churches of God so long as the Scriptures shall be read in their assemblies to
the end of the world.

 

[Satan tempts to sin,
by the example of others.]

 

           Third
Instance.  May be thou art
tempted to sin, by the example of others.  Indeed, though example be an inartifical argument, yet it is
of great force with many, especially if the persons quoted in favour of a sin
be either the most, or thought to be the best. When most, they carry
presently with them those that are false-hearted or weak-headed—as dead fishes
and light straws swim with the stream; for which such, shame strikes the
greatest stroke, and a multitude to bear one company in a sin, takes away the
shame of it.  Where all go naked,
few will blush.  They rather are
exposed to shame that will be singular, and not do as the rest; as Micaiah, who
was made a scorn because he would not tune his pipe to Ahab's ear, nor join
with the whole college of his flattering chaplains in their judgment.  Or, if they be such who have the rep­utation
for wisdom and piety, then it oft proves a snare to them that are none of the
worst; which should make all of high place or eminent grace very circumspect
what opinion or practice they espouse. The devil is very brag when we can get
such to set their hand to his testimonial.  The country will soon ring of this, and their example be
shown everywhere to draw in others. 
Why, such a one is of this opinion, he holds this and doth that, and I
hope he is one you reverence and honour. Now, in this case, consult with the
word, and it will bring thee off this temptation.

           1.
The word commands, that we bring the ex­amples of men—be they who they
will—to the test of the word. 
Is it their opinion that is quoted?  ‘To the law and to the testimony: if they speak not according
to this word, it is because there is no light in them,’ Isa. 8:20.  It is the light which a man carries in
his lantern for which we follow him. 
That gone we leave him. 
Now, we see by this scripture, he hath no light that hath not the word
to vouch his opinion.  So that,
neither knows he whither himself goes, nor we whither such a one will lead
us.  Again, is it the practice
of another that is laid before thee for thy copy to write after?  What saith the word?  ‘Thou shalt not follow a multitude to
do evil,’ Ex.
23:2.
Examples are not our warrant, but precepts.  Neither will it procure a man a discharge, because he had a
precedent in his sin.  Adam,
indeed, said the woman gave him the apple; but it did not excuse him from
paying the reckoning with her.  She
was indeed the first in the transgression, yet both met in the punish­ment.  Wouldst thou eat poison because another
dares be so bold to be thy taster? 
Surely his example cannot make the poison less deadly to thee that dost
pledge him.

           2.
The word will tell thee that the best of saints do not always foot it right;
but too oft are found to tread awry. 
‘In many things we offend all,’ James 3:2.  And that is himself subject to step awry, may also lead thee
aside.  Therefore Paul, as holy a
man as lived, when he calls others after him, would have them fol­low him with
their eyes open, to see whether he fol­lowed Christ.  ‘Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ,’ I Cor. 11:1.  The holiest life of the best saint on
earth is but an imperfect translation of the perfect rule of holiness in the
word, and therefore must be tried by it. 
Hence it is the character of sin­cerity to look to the way rather than
the company. ‘The highway of the upright is to depart from evil,’ Prov. 16:17.  He consults with the word, whether the
way be good or evil.  If he finds
it evil, he will not go into it to bear another company, no, though he be a
saint.  Indeed, God suffers some to
step awry, for the proof of others. 
Thus heresies come, ‘that they who are approved may be made manifest,’ I Cor. 11:19; Deut.
13:1.  ‘Thou shalt not hearken to the words of
that prophet,...for the Lord your God proveth you, to know whether you love the
Lord you God with all your heart.’ Thus I have given a few instances by which
you may see how this sword of the word—as that in the cherubim’s hand—may
preserve the Chris­tian from venturing to sin upon any pretence whatever it be.

 

[We are to hide the
word in our heart, for our

defence against the
temptations to sin.]

 

           Direction Third.  Hide the word in thy heart. This
was David’s preservative.  ‘Thy
word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee,’ Ps. 119:11.  It was not the Bible in his hand to
read it; not the word on his tongue to speak of it; nor in his head to get a
notional knowledge of it; but the hiding it in his heart, that he found
effectual against sin.  It is not
meat in the dish, but [in the] stomach, that nourish­eth; not physic in the
glass, but taken into the body, that purgeth.  Now ‘heart’ in Scripture, though it be used for all
the faculties of the soul, yet, principally, it is put for the conscience, and
the affections.

           First.  Heart in Scripture, is often put for
the conscience.  ‘For if our
heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things,’ I John 3:20.  That is, if our conscience condemn us
justly, to be sure our case is sad, because God knows by us more than we by
ourselves, and can charge us with many sins that conscience is not privy to.

           Now
thus, Christian, labour to hide the word in thy heart—that is, in thy
conscience; let it there have a throne, and it will keep thee in a holy awe.

           1.
Look upon the word as stamped with divine authority, the law which the
great God gives thee his poor creature to walk by.  This impressed on thy con­science would make tremble at the
thought of a sin, which is the traitor's dagger that strikes at God him­self,
by the contempt it casts upon his law. 
And if some assassins, intending to stab a prince, have been so overawed
by a few beams of majesty shot from his mortal brow, that their hearts would
not serve them to make the horrid attempt, how much more must the dread of the
great God’s majesty, darted from his word into the creature's conscience, deter
him from practicing any treason against his Maker?  ‘Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart
standeth in awe of thy word,’ Ps. 119:161. 
As if he had said, I had rather incur their wrath for my holiness, than
make thy word my enemy by my sin.

           2.
Look upon the word of God as that law by which thou art to be judged at the
great day.  ‘God shall judge
the secrets of men...according to my gospel,’ Rom. 2:16.  Then the book of thy conscience shall be opened and compared
with this, and accordingly will sentence of life or death be pro­nounced by
Christ thy Judge.  Thou mayest know
be­forehand how it will go with thee at that day.  If now thou canst not stand before the word as opened by a
poor minister, and applied to thy own conscience, what will you do when it is
opened by Christ?  Now thy
conscience from the word condemns thee, but not finally; for by thy timely
repentance and faith, the sentence of this private court may be reversed, and
the word which even now bound thee over to death, will acquit and justify
thee.  But at that great day of
assize there will be a final decision of thy cause.  If then the judgement goes against thee, thou art a lost man
for ever.  No reversing the
sentence, not so much as a reprieve to stay the execution.  But as the word goeth out of the Judge’s
mouth, the sinner’s face is covered to be immediately delivered into the tor­mentor’s
hands.  And darest now thou, O man,
bid any lust welcome, while thou seest the gibbet set up, and the everlasting
chains prepared, in which the word of God dooms every sinner to hang?  Canst thou read thy sentence, and yet
like thy sin that brings it inevitably upon thy head?

           Second.  Heart, in Scripture, is most frequently
taken for the will and affections. 
‘My son, give me thine heart, Prov. 23:26, that is, thy love.  So, Deut. 10:12, ‘to love him, and to serve the Lord
thy God with all thy heart.’  And
thus, Christian, to hide the word in thy heart would be a rare antidote
against the poison of sin.  The
chains of love are stronger than the chains of fear.  Herod’s love of Herodias was too hard for his fear of
John.  He had some hold of
his conscience that awed him, and bound his hands awhile.  But his minion had his affections, and
the heart can unbind the hands. 
His love to her made him shake off his respect to him, and at last em­brue
his hands in his blood.  He that is
only prisoner to the command, and bound to his good behaviour by the chains of
terror which the threatening claps upon his conscience, may have these knocked
off, and then he will shake off his obedience also.  But he that loves the word, and the purity of its precepts,
cannot turn traitor.  When such a
one sins, he makes as deep a wound in his own heart as in the law, and
therefore trembles at displeasing God. 
‘I love thy testimonies; my flesh trembleth for fear of thee,’ Ps. 119:119, 120.  O that is the blessed fear which is the
daughter of love. Now, to inflame thy heart with love to the word, consider
that it is the faithfullest monitor and the sweetest comforter
thou hast in all the world.

           1.
It is thy faithfullest monitor. 
It tells thee plainly of all thy faults, and will not suffer sin to lie
upon thee, but points to the enemy that hunts for the precious soul's life; it
discovers all the designs and plots Satan and thy beloved lusts have against
thee.  This made David love it so
dearly, ‘Moreover by them is thy servant warned,’ Ps. 19:11.  Besides all its other good offices it
doth for thee, it warns thee of every danger, and shows thee how to escape
it.  O how should this endear it to
thee!  Did Ahasuerus heap such
abundant honour upon Mordecai, who had but once been a means to save his life
by discovering a treason plotted against his person?  How much more shouldst thou honour and love the good word of
God, which hath so oft saved thy soul out of thy spiritual enemies' hands, and
doth daily give thee warning how to escape the snares of sin, without which it
were impossible for thee to find them out or avoid them. Was David so affected
with the wisdom and love of Abigail in the advice she gave him, whereby he was
kept from shedding blood in his fury, that he took her into his bosom to be his
wife, as a reward of her kind­ness to him?  And shall not the counsel the word hath given thee make thee
in love much more with it?

           2.
The word is thy sweetest comforter.  When the poor soul is distressed with guilt, and conflicteth
with the terrors of divine wrath for his sins, O what miserable comforters then
are this world’s pleasures and treasures! 
How little can any creature contribute to the ease of such a one!  No more than he who, standing upon the
shore, and sees his friend drowning in the sea, but knows not how to reach any
help to him.  It is the word alone
that can walk upon those waves, and come to the soul's relief.  This is able to restore the soul, and
buoy it up from the bottom of the sea of despair.  Though the soul be, with those mariners, ‘at its wits’ end,’
and knows not what to do, yet then the word stands up—as Paul before them—and,
as it were, thus speaks to him, ‘Poor soul, thou shouldst have hearkened to my
voice, and not have loosed from thy harbour by sinning against God, to come to
this harm and loss.  But, be of
good cheer; do thus and thus; repent of thy folly, and speedily turn to thy God
in Christ Jesus, and there shall be no loss of thy life.’  There is forgiveness with the Lord,
therefore he may be feared.  And
so, in all other troubles, this sends in the saint’s comfort.  When the world gives him gall, this
brings wine; when it meets with nothing but crosses and vexations from that,
this sweetly recreates and cheers his spirits.  Here the Christian hath those cooling waters with which he
quencheth and allays all his sorrows. 
And you know what a treasure a spring or fountain is accounted in dry or
hot countries. Surely, Christian, when thou considerest how many a sweet
draught thou hast had from the wells of salvation, thou wilt cry out with
David, ‘I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened
me,’ Ps.
119:93.  I do not wonder to see thy enemy
endeavour to stop thy well at which thou shouldst draw thy comfort, but that he
should be able to persuade thee to do it thyself is strange.

 

[We are to plead the
promise against

sin at the throne of
grace.]

 

           Direction Fourth.  Plead the promise against sin at the
throne of grace.  He that hath
law on his side, we say, may sue the king; and he that hath a promise on his
side may, with a humble boldness, commence his suit with God.  As the veins in the body have arteries
to attend them with spirits, so pre­cepts in the word have promises to inspirit
the Chris­tian, and empower him with strength for his duty.  Is there a command to pray?  There is also a promise to enable for
prayer, Zech.
12:10; Rom. 8:26.  Doth God re­quire us to give him our heart?
‘My son, give me thine heart,’ Prov. 23:26. 
The promise saith, ‘A new heart also will I give you,’ Eze. 36:26.  Doth he command us to mortify our
corruptions?  And doth he not prom­ise,
‘Sin shall not have dominion over us?’ Rom. 6:14. Now, to obtain this promise, thou
must plead and press it believingly at the throne of grace.  Quod lex imperat, fides impetrat—what
the precept com­mands, the prayer of faith begs and receives.  Look, therefore, thou takest God in thy
way.  First besiege heaven, and then
fear not overcoming sin and hell, when thou hast conquered heaven.  Now thou warrest at God's cost, and not
thy own.  He that sets thee on will
bring thee off.  David was a man at
arms, and could handle his weapon against this enemy as well as another, yet
dares not promise himself success till he hath made God his second.  ‘Order my steps in thy word: and let
not any iniquity have dominion over me,’ Ps. 119:133.  But if thou thinkest to steal a victory by the strength of
thy own resolution, expect an over­throw. 
And it will be a mercy thou shouldst be so served; for a foil will learn
thee humility for the future, but a victory would increase thy pride.  And that is a sad victory, when one sin
carries away the spoils which thou hast taken from another.  Jehosha­phat took the right course to
speed, who, though he had almost a million men he could draw into the field—and
that without draining his garrisons—yet bespeaks God’s help, as if he had not a
man to fight for him: ‘We have no might against this great com­pany that cometh
against us; neither know we what to do: but our eyes are upon thee,’ II Chr. 20:12. If an
Alexander, or a Cæsar, had been at the head of such an army, I warrant you they
would not have known what to have done, and not doubted all before them. But
Jehoshaphat, a holy humble man, was better instructed.  He knew a host signifieth nothing which
hath not the Lord of hosts with them; and that the most valiant can find
neither heart nor hand in the day of battle without his leave who made both.  Nor wilt thou, Christian, be able to
use thy grace in an hour of temptation, without new grace from God to excite
and enforce what thou hast already received from him.  And if thou expectest this from him, he expects to hear from
thee.  Neither speaks it God
unwilling to give what he hath promised, because he pays not the debt of the
promise until it be sued for at the throne of grace.  No, God takes this method, only to secure his own glory in
the giving, and also to greaten our comfort by receiving it in this way of
prayer, which is a fit expedient to attain both.

 

 

 

BRANCH FOURTH.

 

[Directions how to use the sword of
the word

against
afflictions,
outward or inward.]

 

           I
come now to give some little help, by way of direction, how the Christian may
use this sword of the word for his defence against the fourth enemy and the
last, but not the least—an army made up of many bands of afflictions, which
from without invade, and from within distress, him.  The Christian in this world stands not
as you may see some houses, so fenced and shadowed with hills or woods that the
wind beats but upon one side of them. 
No, he lies open to storms and tempests from all quarters of the heaven.  We read of a strange kind of wind that
at once ‘smote the four corners of the house’ in which Job’s children
were.  Truly, thus the Christian’s
afflic­tions beset him round: no corner left unassaulted. And very often he is
smitten on all sides at once; crossed in his estate, feeble in his body, and
afflicted in his spirit all at once. 
And when so many seas of sorrows meet, it is no easy work for the poor
Christian’s heart to stand unbroken amidst the con­current violence of their
waves.  Though this is most
certain, that those dejections and perturbations with which the minds of the best
saints are so discomposed and ruffled, yea sometimes dismayed and distressed,
cannot be charged upon any deficiency of the gospel’s principles for their
support and comfort; but rather on their own impotence and unskillfulness to
apply them in their several exigencies. 
My present task is to drop a few words of counsel to the weak Christian
—how he may use and wield this sword of the word for his defence and comfort in
any affliction without, or distress of spirit from within, that may assault
him. And here I must not descend to particular cases —that were a voluminous
work, and not so proper for this place—but only content myself with some
general rules, that may be applicable to all.  Now the cordial and restorative part of the word—that, I
mean, which principally prepared and provided for the soul’s comfort in all its
discomforts and dis­tresses—is contained in the promises.  These well studied and improved, can
alone make thee a com­fortable Christian. 
Now, if thou wouldst improve the promises, so as not to be run down and
trampled upon by Satan in any day of distress that comes upon thee, but
comfortably lift up thy head in hope and confidence above the waves of thy
present sorrows, then hearken to what follows in a few general rules or directions, prepared for thy help.  First.
Let it be thy first and chief care to get thy interest in and right to the
promises cleared up.  Second. Take some pains to sort the
promises and reduce them to their proper heads.  Third. Observe
the latitude of the promises.  Fourth. Be much in meditation on the
promises.  Fifth. Plead the promises at the throne of grace.  Sixth.
When thou hast sued the promise, act thy faith on the power and truth of God
for the performance of it.

 

[We must see to have
our interest

in the promises made
clear to us.]

 

           Direction First.  Let it be thy first and chief care to get
thy interest in and right to the promises cleared up.  For this is the hinge on which the
great dispute betwixt between thee and Satan will move in the day of trouble,
except the case can be resolved be­fore that overtakes thee.  O, it is sad for a poor Chris­tian to
stand at the door of the promise in the dark night of affliction afraid to draw
the latch!  Whereas, he should then
come as boldly for shelter as a child into his father’s house.  ‘Come, my people, enter thou into thy
chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: hide thyself as it were for a little
moment, until the indignation be overpast,’ Isa. 26:20.  He that hath his title to the promise proved from the word
to his own conscience, will not be wrangled easily out of his comfort.  Naboth would not part with his
inheritance for the pleasure or displeasure of a king; but stands up in the
defence of his right to death.  And
so resolves Job: ‘Till I die I will not remove mine integ­rity from me,’ Job 27:5.  This was his evidence for heaven.  And therefore Satan used his best wits
to make him throw it up, but never could effect it.  His title was clear, and he will not be disputed out of it
by Satan; no, nor afraid to vouch it before God himself, when God in his
providence seemed most to disown him, and to handle him as an enemy: ‘Thou
knowest that I am not wicked!’ Job 10:7. 
He saith not that he hath no sin, but in a humble appeal to God defends
his state, that he is ‘not wicked.’ 
And this kept the chariot of his hope on its wheels all along his sad
suf­ferings; that it was never quite overthrown, though sometimes it seemed to
totter and shake.

 

[How our interest in
the promises

may be made clear to
us.]

 

           Question.  But how shall I know whether I have a
right to the promises?

           Answer
First.  Inquire whether thou
art united to Christ by faith or no. 
The promises are not a com­mon for swine to root in; but Christ’s
sheep-walk, for his flock to feed in. 
‘And if ye be Christ’s, then are ye Abraham’s seed, and heirs according
to the promise,’ Gal.
3:29.  The promise is the jointure, and cannot
be had but by taking the person of Christ in marriage. And faith is the grace
by which the soul gives his consent to take Christ as he is offered in the
gospel. It is called, therefore, a receiving of Christ, John 1:12. There is
no doubt but thou hast often been wooed in the ministry of the word by Christ’s
spokesmen, and that question hath been put to thee for Christ, which was once
to Rebekah, concerning her taking Isaac to husband, ‘Wilt thou go with this
man?’  They have from the word set
him forth in his glories before thee, who he is, and what he brings.  Thou hast heard the articles upon which
he is most willing to proceed to marriage, and take thee as his beloved into
his bed and bosom.  As,

           1.
That thou send away all other lovers which have had any pretensions to thee.  For he will endure no competitor or
partner with him in thy affections. The names of Baalim must be taken out of
Israel’s mouth, and then God marries himself to her, Hosea 2:17, 18.

           2.
That thou like his law as well as his love. Christ will not be husband
where he may not be master also.

           3.
That thou take him for better and for worse, with his cross as well as with
his crown—to suffer for him as well as to reign with him.  Now, what enter­tainment hath this
motion found with thee?  Dost thou,
upon the discovery made of Christ, take liking in his person?  Is he transcendently amiable in thy
eye, and precious to thy soul, so as to inflame thee with an insatiable desire
of him?  Canst thou freely pack
away thy once darling lusts to gain him? and leap out of the arms of all thy
carnal delights and sinful pleasures, to be taken into his embraces?  Art thou as willing he should be thy
Lord, as thy love? and as content to bow to his sceptre as lie in his bosom? In
a word, art thou so enamoured with him, that thou now canst not live without
him, nor enjoy thyself except thou mayest enjoy him?  Thy heart is wounded with the darts which his love and
loveliness have shot into it, and he himself carries the balm about him which
alone can heal it.  Let him now
require what he will at thy hands, nothing he com­mands shall be denied.  If he bids thee leave father and
father's house, thou wilt go after him, though it be to the other end of the
world.  If he tells thee though
must be base and poor in the world for his sake, thou art resolved to beg with
him rather than reign without him, yea die for him than live without him.  Come forth, thou blessed of the Lord,
and put on the bracelets of the promises; they are the love-tokens which I a
from Christ’s hand to deliver, and in his name to promise marriage to thee.  Thou art the happy soul, if there be
one on earth, that Christ be­troths to himself.  Languish no longer in thy unbe­lieving fears.  For thy comfort know it is not Christ’s
custom to entangle soul's affections, and when he hath got their love, then to
deny his to them, and cast them off.

           Answer
Second.  Inquire what effect
the prom­ises have on thy soul. 
All who have right to the prom­ises are trans­formed by the
promise.  As Satan shed his
venomous seed into the heart of Eve by a promise, ‘Ye shall not surely die,’ Gen. 3:4—whereupon
she presently conceived with sin, and was assimilated into the likeness of his
diabolical nature, wicked as was the devil himself—so God useth the promises of
the gospel—called therefore the ‘incorruptible seed’—to beget his own image and
likeness in the hearts of his elect. 
‘Exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be
partakers of the divine nature,’ II Peter 1:4, that is, be partakers of such
heavenly holy qualities and dispositions as will make you like God
himself.  The promises of the
gospel have in them a fitness, and, when by the Spirit of God applied, a virtue
to purify the heart, as well as to pacify the conscience.  ‘Now ye are clean,’ saith Christ to his
disciples, ‘through the word which I have spoken unto you,’ John 15:3.  Lay, therefore, thy hand upon thy
heart, and speak freely, poor soul. 
Have the promises had a sanctifying transforming virtue upon thee? What
of God dost thou find in thy heart more since thy acquaintance with the
promises than before? Some use promises as a protection for sin rather than an
argument against it.  As sin takes
occasion by the commandment to work in the carnal heart all manner of
concupiscence, so many are from the promise emboldened to sin more freely—like
mountebanks that drink poison in confidence of their antidote. Now which way
works the promise upon thy heart? If the seal of the promise leaves not the
impress of God's image on thee, it ratifies no good to thee.  If it produceth no holiness in thee, it
brings no joy to thee.  In a word,
if the promise be not to thee a seed of grace, it is no evidence for
glory.  But if thou canst find it
leaves the superscription of God upon thee, then it assures the love and favour
of God to thee.

           Answer
Third.  Inquire in what
posture thy heart stands to the word of command.  The promise, may be, is sweet to thy palate.  This thou rollest like a lump of sugar
under thy tongue, but are not thy teeth set against the command as if it were
gall and worm­wood?  Thou smilest
on the promise, but when put in mind of thy duty to the command, then haply thy
countenance is changed, and a frown sits on thy brow, as if God were some
austere master that breaks his servants’ backs with heavy burdens.  And thou couldst wish, with all thy
heart, that a dispensation might be procured for thee to break now and then a
command without forfeiting thy claim to the promise; but, be­cause that is not
to be hopes for, thou art so kind to thyself, as to give thyself leave to bow
down to some idol of pleasure or profit that thou hast set up in thy heart, and
hopest God will be merciful to thee, be­cause it is only in this or that one
way thou makest bold with him in. 
If this shoe fit thy foot—this be the true character of thy heart—which
God forbid! thou hast no one lot belongs to thee in the lap of the promise.  We have a comfortable promise, Ps. 50:15 but a guard
is set about it, that no disobedient wretch should gather its sweet fruit: ‘But
unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do,...that thou shouldest take my
covenant in thy mouth, seeing thou hatest instruction, and castest my words
behind thee,’ ver.
16, 17.  On the other hand, if thou canst in
truth say that it is not the holy command thou art offended with, but with
thyself, because thou canst obey it no more perfectly—that it is not grievous to
thee to keep, but break the laws of God; and, though thy foot too often slips,
yet thy heart cleaves to them, and will not let thee lie where thou fallest,
but up thou gettest to mend thy pace, and mind thy steps better—for thy comfort
know, poor soul, this sincere respect thou hast to the commandment is a most
comfortable evidence for thy true title to the promise.  When David was able to vouch his love
to the command he did not question his title to the promise; Ps. 119:113, there he
asserts his sincere affection to the precepts: ‘I hate vain thoughts: but thy
law do I love.’  Mark, he doth not
say he is free from vain thoughts, but he hates them.  He likes their company no better than
one would a pack of thieves that break into his house. Neither saith he that he
fully kept the law; but he loved the law, even when he failed
exact obedience to it.  Now from
this testimony his conscience brought in for his love to the law, his faith
acts clearly and strongly on the promise in the next words, ‘thou art my hiding
place and my shield: I hope in thy word,’ Ps. 119:114.

           Answer
Fourth.  If thou questionest
thy right to one promise, inquire whether thou canst not discern thy
interest in a second, which, if thou canst, thou mayest conclude thou hast
a right to that other thou didst doubt of, yea and to all the rest.  For, as there is a concatenation of
graces—he that finds one hath all —so of promises, he that is heir to one hath
right to all.  May be, when thou
readest that promise, ‘Bles­sed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God,’
Matt. 5:8, the
remainders of corruption, not yet fully morti­fied in thy heart, scare thee
from applying it to thyself as thy portion.  But, for its next‑neighbour promise, ‘Blessed are they which
do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled,’ ver. 6, haply thou
feelest such a pinching sense of thy guilt, and want of holiness, as will
enforce the to acknowledge, that if ever man in a burning fever thirsted for
drink, or one half‑starved desired food, then dost thou crave and cry for the
righteousness of Christ to justify thy person, and grace from Christ to
sanctify thy nature, —so that thou canst not but see this promise spoken to
thee.  And if this belongs to thee,
then the former, and all the other with it.  For they are branches in the same covenant, which God doth
not dismember, but gives it entire with all the branches growing on it to be
the believer’s portion.  Hence it
is they are called ‘heirs of promise,’ Heb. 6:17.  Not heirs of this promise or that, but ‘of promise’—that is,
of the covenant, which comprehends all the promises of the gospel. So that, as
he hath hold of the man’s whole body that hath fast hold of his hand—though it
be but one member of it—because it is knit to the rest, and by it he may draw
the rest to him; so, if thou hast hold of any one promise thou hast hold of all
other, and may­est infer thy right from this to them.  And as one may draw out the wine of a whole hogshead at one
tap, so may a poor soul derive the comfort of the whole cov­enant to himself
through one promise which he is able to own and apply.  ‘We know,’ saith Saint John, ‘that we
have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren,’ I John 3:14.  Eternal life is the cream and top of
all covenant‑blessings.  Now, a
poor Christian may, upon the inward feeling of this one grace of love in his
heart—being the condition annexed to this promise—know that he is in a state of
life and happiness.  And why?  Because wherever this grace is in truth
there are all other saving graces. Christ is not divided in these, and
consequently he that can apply this promise hath a right to all.

 

[We must sort the
promises under their proper heads.]

 

           Direction Second.  Take some pains to sort the
promises, as thou readest the Scriptures, and reduce them to their proper heads.  There is great multiplicity of trials
and temptations which God is pleased to exercise his saints with: ‘Many are the
afflictions of the righteous,’ Ps. 34:19. 
And there is va­riety of promises provided to administer suitable
comfort to their several sorrows. 
The Scriptures are a spiritual physic-garden, where grows an herb for
the cure of every malady.  Now it
were of admirable use tot he Christian if he would gather some of every sort,
such especially as he hath found most to affect his heart, of which he can say
with Origen, ‘hæc est scriptura mea,’—this portion of Scripture is mine,
and then to write such down, as the physician doth his receipts for this and
that disease, by themselves. May it not shame the Christian to see a scholar
know every book in his great library, and what it treats on, so that he can
presently go to any one of them all, and make use of their notions as he hath
occasion; and that the Christian, who hath but one book to advise with, and
that none of the greatest bulk, but sufficient as to make him wise unto
salvation, so to make him comfortable in every condition that can be­fall him,
should not be acquainted, if not with all, yet with some choice promises of
every sort, to which he may be able to resort for counsel and comfort in the
day of his distress?  Now the best
time for this work is when thou art yet at ease, in the lap of health and
prosperity.  The apothecary gathers
his simples in the spring which he useth in winter.  The mariner pro­vides his tackling in the harbour before he
puts forth to sea.  And the wise
Christian will store himself with promises in health for sickness, and in peace
for future perils.  It is too late
for a man to think of running home for his cloak when on his way he is caught
in a storm.  ‘A prudent man
foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself: but the simple pass on, and are
punished,’ Prov.
22:3.

 

[We must observe the
comprehensiveness

of the promises.]

 

           Direction Third.  Observe the full latitude of the
promises.  The covenant of
grace comprehends the weak Christian as well as the strong, ‘if children, then
heirs,’ Rom.
8:17.  Not if children grown to this age, or
that stature, but ‘if children.’ 
Christ hath in his family children of all sizes, some little, and others
tall Christians.  If thou beest a
child, though in the cradle, the promise is thy portion.  ‘All the promises of God in him are
yea, and in him amen,’ II
Cor. 1:20.
‘There is no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus,’ Rom. 8:1.  See here, it is the state and relation
the creature stands in, that gives him his title to the promise.  Some saints have more grace from Christ
than others, and so have more skill to improve these promises than their weaker
brethren, whereby their present profits and incomes from the promise are
greater.  But they have no more
interest in Christ than the other, and consequently the title of the weak
Christian is as true to the promise as [that] of the strong.  Shall the foot say, ‘Because I am the
lowest member of the body, therefore the tongue will not speak for me, or the
head take care of me?’  We will
grant thee to be of the least and lowest rank of Christians; yet thou art in Christ,
as the foot is in the body.  And
Christ hath made provision in the prom­ise for all that are in him.  We disfigure the promises when we make
them look asquint, with an eye upon one saint and not on another, whereas they
belong to all: ‘He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life,’ John 3:36.  Who now is there meant?  Only he that believes above
doubting?  I trow not.  He that bids us receive the ‘weak in
faith,’ will not himself reject them.

 

[We must be much in
meditation of the promises.]

 

           Direction Fourth.  Be much in meditation of the
promises.  Whence is it that
the poor Christian is so distressed with the present affliction that lies upon
him, but because he museth more on his trouble than on the promise?  There is that in the promise which
would recreate his spirit, if he could but fix his thoughts upon it.  When the crying child once fastens on
the teat, and begins to draw down the milk, then it leaves wrangling, and falls
asleep at the breast. Thus the Christian ceaseth complaining of his afflic­tion
when he gets hold on the promise, and hath the relish of its sweetness upon his
heart. ‘In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy comforts de­light my
soul,’ Ps.
94:19.  When a swarm of bees dis­lodge
themselves they are all in a confusion, flying here and there without any order,
till at last they are hived again. 
Then the uproar is at an end and they fall to work peaceably as
before.  Truly, even so the
Christian will find it in his own heart. 
God, in the promise, is the soul’s hive.  Let the Christian dislodge his thoughts thence, and
presently they run riot, and fly up and down as in an affright at the
apprehension of the present affliction or temptation lies upon him, till he can
recollect himself, and settle his heart again upon the promise, and then he
recovers his former peace and composure. 
Hence the Spirit of God sounds a retreat to the troubled thoughts of
afflicted saints, and calls them off from poring on that which roils them, into
God, where alone they can be quiet and at ease.  ‘Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him,’ Ps. 37:7.  And David, finding his soul, like the
dove while flying over the waters, without all repose, calls it back into the
meditation of God and his prom­ise, as the only ark where it could find
rest.  ‘Return unto thy rest, O my
soul,’ Ps.
116:7.  The Christian’s heart is of that colour
which his most abiding con­stant thoughts dye into.  Transient flitting thoughts, be they comfortable or sad, do
not much work upon the soul, or alter its temper into joy or sorrow. Neither
poison kills, nor food nourisheth, that doth not stay in the body.  No, then the affliction soaks into the
heart, and embitters the Christian’s spirit into perplexing fears and
disconsolate dejections, when his thoughts lie steeping in his sorrows from day
to day—when, like her in the gospel, he is ‘bowed down with a spirit of
infirmity,’ that he cannot raise his heart from the thought of his cross and
trial to meditate on any promise that should refresh him. Such there are, God
knows, whom Satan and their own pensive hearts keep such close prisoners, that
no comfortable meditation is suffered to speak or stay with them.

           And
again, on the other hand then the promise works effectually, when it is
bound upon the Chris­tian’s heart, when he wakes with it and walks with it. No pain
he feels, no danger he fears, can pluck him from his breast; but, as Samson
went on his way eat­ing of the honeycomb, so he feeding on the sweetness of the
promise.  Here is a Christian that
will sing when another sighs, will be able to spend that time of his affliction
in praising God, which others—whose thoughts are scattered and split upon what
they suffer —too commonly bestow on fruitless complaints of their misery, and
discontented speeches which reflect dishonourably upon God himself.  Let it be thy care therefore,
Christian, to practice this duty of medita­tion.  Do not only exchange a few words with the promise, as one
does with a friend passing by at his door.  But invite the promise, as Abraham did the angels, Gen. 18, not to
pass away till thou hast more fully enjoyed it.  Yea, constrain it as the disciples did Christ, to stay with
thee all the night of thy affliction. This is to ‘acquaint’ ourselves indeed
with God, the ready way to be at peace. 
This is the way the saints have taken to raise their faith to such a
pitch, as to triumph over the most formidable calamities.  ‘My beloved,’ saith the spouse, ‘shall
lie all night between my breasts.’ 
That is, when benighted with any sorrowful afflicting providence, she
shall pass away the night comfortably in the meditation of his love and
loveliness, his beauty and sweetness. 
Never will the Christian come to any kindly heat of comfort in his
spirit, till he takes this Abishag of the promise into his bosom to cherish
him.  And this will do it indeed.  A soul that hath learned this heavenly
art of meditation will feel no more the extremity of any af­fliction, than you
do the sharpness of the cold weather when you are sitting by a good fire, or
lying in a warm bed.  It was a
notable speech of Julius Palmer, an English martyr: ‘To them,’ saith he, ‘that
have their mind fettered to the body as a thief’s foot is to a pair of stocks,
it is hard to die.  But if any be
able to separate his soul from his body, then by the help of God’s Spirit, it
is no more mastery for such a one than to drink this cup.’  He meant, if the creature be able to
elevate his mind and thoughts above his suf­ferings by heavenly meditation on
the ‘great and precious promises,’ then it were nothing to suffer. Such a one,
his soul is in heaven; and a soul in heaven feels little what the flesh meets
with on earth. Here, O ye Christians, is the most glorious prospect to be seen
on this side heaven!

           When
the soul stands upon this Pisgah of meditation, looking by an eye of faith
through the perspective of the promise upon all the great and precious things
laid up by a faithful God for him, it is easy to despise the world's love and
wrath.  But alas! it is hard for us
to get up thither, who are so short-breathed and soon tired with a few steps up
this mount of God.  O let us all
cry out, as once David, ‘Lead me to the rock that is higher than I!’  And with him in another place, ‘Who
will bring me into the strong city?...wilt no thou, O God?’  So, who will lift us up to this high,
holy hill of meditation, higher than all the surging waves that dash upon us
from beneath, where we may see all our creature-enjoyments drowned, yet
ourselves not wetshod?  Wilt not
thou, O God? Yes, our God would do this for us, would we but shake off our
sloth, and show, by parting with our mandrakes to purchase his company, that we
highly prize the same.  My meaning
is—would we but fre­quently retire from the world, and bestow some of that time
in secret waiting upon God which we lavish out upon inferior pleasures and
entertainments of the creature, we should invite God's Holy Spirit to us. Let a
wicked man set up a lust for his thoughts to dally with, and the devil will
soon be at his elbow to assist him. 
And shall we not believe the Holy Spirit as ready to lend his helping
hand to a holy meditation? Doubtless he is.  Spread thou thy sails and the Spirit will fill them with his
heavenly breath.  Be but thou the
priest to lay the wood and sacrifice in order, and fire from heaven will come
down upon it.  Be thou but careful
to provide fuel—gather from the promises matter for meditation, and set thy
thoughts awork upon it—and the Spirit of God will kindle thy affections.  ‘While I was musing,’ saith David, ‘the
fire burned: then spake I with my tongue,’ Ps. 39:3. Isaac met his bride in the fields;
and the gracious soul her beloved, when she steps aside, to walk with the
promise in her solitary thoughts.

 

[We must plead the
promises at the throne of grace.]

 

           Direction Fifth.  Plead the promises at the throne of
grace.  This must not be
disjointed at the former.  Indeed,
as the ingredients of an excellent receipt do not work the cure severally, but
as tem­pered together; so these directions, being social means, must not be
severed, but jointly observed. And this direction I am now speaking to, besides
a universal influence it hath upon all the other, is linked by an especial
affinity to the former.  In vain do
we charge the gun, if we intend not to let it off. Meditation filleth the heart
with heavenly matter, but prayer gives the discharge and pours it forth upon
God, whereby he is overcome to give the Christian his desired relief and
succour.  The promise is a bill or
bond, wherein God makes himself a debtor to the creature.  Now, though it is some comfort to a
poor man that hath no money at present to buy bread with, when he reads his
bills and bonds, to see that he hath a great sum owing him, yet this will not
supply his present wants and buy him bread.  No, it is the put­ting his bond in suit must do this.  By meditating on the promise thou
comest to see there is support in, and deliverance out of, affliction engaged
for.  But none will come till thou
commencest thy suit, and by the prayer of faith callest in the debt.  ‘Your heart shall live that seek God,’ Ps. 69:32.  ‘They looked unto him, and were
lightened,’ Ps.
34:5.  God expects to hear from you, before
you can expect to hear from him. 
If thou restrainest prayer, it is no wonder the mercy promised is
retained.  Meditation, it is like
the lawyer's studying the case in order to his pleading it at the bar.  When, therefore, thou hast viewed the
prom­ise, and affected thy heart with the riches of it, then ply thee to the
throne of grace, and spread it before the Lord. Thus David, ‘Remember the word
unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope,’ Ps. 119:49.

 

[We must act our
faith on the power and truth

of God for the
performance of the promises.]

 

           Direction Sixth.  When thou hats sued the promise, act
thy faith on the power and truth of God for the performance of it; and that
against sense and reason, which rise up to discourage thee.  For, as thy faith is feeble or strong
on these, so wilt thou draw little or much sweetness from the promises.  The saints’ safety lies in the strength
and faithfulness of God who is the promiser; but the present comfort and repose
of an afflicted soul is fetched in by faith relying on God as such.  Hence it is, though all believers are
out of danger when in the saddest condition that can befall them, yet too many,
alas! of them are under fears and dejections of spirit, because their faith
acts weakly on a mighty God, timorously and suspiciously on a faithful
God.  ‘Why are ye fearful, O ye of
little faith?’ Matt.
8:26.  You see the leak at which the water
came in to sink their spirits; they had ‘little faith.’  It is not what God is in himself, but
what our apprehen­sions at present are of God, that pacifies and com­forts a
soul in great straits.  If a man
fear the house will fall on his head in a storm, though it be as un­movable as
a rock, yet that will not ease his mind till he thinks it so.  Were a man under the protection of
never so faithful a friend, yet so long as his head is full of fears and
jealousies to the contrary, that he will at last leave and cast him off, this
man must needs have an uncomfortable life, though without cause. You see then
of what importance it is to keep up the vigour and vivacity of thy faith on the
power and truth of the promises. 
And if thou meanest to do this, ban­ish sense and reason from being thy
counsellors. How came Abraham not to stagger in his faith, though the promise
was so strange?  The apostle
resolves us: ‘He considered not his own body now dead,’ Rom. 4:19. And what
made Zacharias reel?  He made sense
his counsellor, and thought he was too old for such news to be true.  This is the bane of faith, and
consequently of comfort in affliction. 
We are too prone to carry our faith, with Thomas, at our fingers’ ends;
and to trust God no further than our hand of sense can reach.  It is not far that sense can reach; and
but little further that reason’s purblind eye can see.  God is oft on his way to perform a
promise and bring joyful news to his afflicted servants, when sense and reason
conclude their case is desperate.

           These
three, sense, reason, and faith, are dis­tinct, and must not be
confounded.  Some things we know by
sense which we do not understand the rea­son of, as the sympathy of the
lodestone with iron —why it draws that the baser metal, and not gold; and why
the mariner's needle espouses the north point rather than any other.  Some things we appre­hend by reason
that are not discerned by sense—as the magnitude of the sun’s body to exceed
the circum­ference of the earth, which, the eye being judge, may be almost covered
with one's hat; and other things clear to faith, that dunce and pose both sense
and reason.  Paul knew by faith, in
that dismal sea-storm where all of being saved was taken away—that is, sense
and reason being judges—not a man should lose his life.  ‘Be of good cheer: for I believe God,
that it shall be even as it was told me,’ Acts 27:25. When the angel smote Peter on the
side, and bade him ‘arise up quickly...and follow me,’ he did not allow sense
and reason to reply and cavil at the impossibility of the thing.  How can I walk that am in fetters?  Or to what purpose when an iron gate
withstands us?  But he riseth, and
his chains fall off —he follows, and the iron gate officiously opens itself to
them.

           Say
not, poor Christian, ‘It is impossible to bear this affliction, or pass that
temptation.’  Let faith follow the
promise, and God will loose these knots that sense and reason tie.  Luther bids, crucifige illud verbum,
quare?—crucify that word, wherefore? 
Obey the command, and ask not a reason why God enjoins it.  It is necessary to bid the Christian,
in great afflic­tions and temptations, to crucify the word quomodo? —how
shall I go through this trouble—hold out in that assault?  Away with this ‘how shall I?’  Hath not the great God who is faithful
given thee promises enough to ease thy heart of these needless fears and cares,
in that he tells thee, ‘He will never leave thee or forsake thee, his grace
shall be sufficient for thee?’ Nothing ‘shall be able to separate us from the
love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.’  And a hundred more comfortable assurances from the lip of
truth to stand betwixt thee and all harm. 
Why then dost thou trouble thyself about this improbability and that
mountainous difficulty that sense and carnal rea­son heave up and interpose to
eclipse thy comfort from thy approaching deliverance?  ‘Shut the win­dows, and the house will be light,’ as the
Jewish prov­erb saith.  Judge not
by sense, but by faith on an omnipotent God; and these bugbears will not scare
thee.  Credere improbabilia
vigoris est intellectus, sicut amare damnosa et ignominiosa vigoris est
affectus.  (Parisiensis, De Fide)—it is the
highest act of our understanding to believe those things which seem most
improbable; as it is the highest act of love, for Christ’s sake to take
pleasure in those things that bring pain and shame with them.  For as in the latter we deny ourselves
the satisfaction of our carnal de­sires, which goes near to flesh and blood;
so, in the former, we deny our carnal reasonings, that would be disputing
against God’s power and strength.

 

 

 

USE OR
APPLICATION.

 

[Exhortation to ministers, to whom

this sword is
specially committed.]

 

           To
the ministers—into your hand this sword of the word is given in an especial
manner.  Unto you the ministry of
it is committed.  God hath not left
it at random to all; that who will may publicly preach the gospel.  That which is everybody’s work is no­body’s.  He hath therefore set up a standing
office with officers in his church, on whom he hath laid this burden, and from
whom he expects an account.  He
‘hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation,’ II Cor. 5:19—as a prince
commissionates this or that man to be his ambassador—‘O Timothy, keep that
which is committed to thy trust,’ I Tim. 6:20.  See here, and tremble at the charge which is deposited in
your hands.  You are ambassadors
from the great God to treat with poor sinners concerning their eternal peace
upon those articles which are contained in the gospel. You are his under-workmen,
to rear up his temple in the hearts of men, and to lay every stone by the line
and rule of this word.  His stewards,
to give his family their portions in due season, and all your provision to be
taken out of this store‑house.  In
a word, you are his shepherds, to lead and feed his flock, and that in
no other than these ‘green pastures.’ 
Now, if the peace be not concluded, the ambassador is sure to be called
to an account where the fault lies. 
If the house be not built, or go to decay, woe to the negligent workman.  If the family starve, what reckoning
will the steward make?  If the
sheep wander, or die of the rot through thy neglect, who shall pay for the loss
but the idle shepherd?  Now, in
order to the discharge of this your public trust, I shall only point at two
duties incumbent on you both, with a reference to this word left in your
hands—one to be performed in your study, the other in your pulpit.

           First
Duty.  In your study acquaint
yourselves with the word of God. 
That which may pass for dili­gence in a private Christian’s reading and
search into the Scripture, may be charged as negligence upon the minister.  The study of the Scriptures is not only
a part of our general calling in common with him, but of our particular also,
in which we are to be exercised from one end of the week to the other.  The husband­man doth not more
constantly go forth with his spade and mattock, to perform his day labour in
the field, than the minister is to go and dig in this mine of the
Scripture.  He is not to read a
chapter now and then as his worldly occasions will permit; or steal a little
time from his other scholarly studies to look into the Bible in transitu—in
passing, and bid it farewell.  But
it must be his standing exercise—his plodding work. All other must stoop to
this.  Suppose thou shouldst know
what Plato, Aristotle, with the rest of the princes of worldly learning, have
written, and hadst encircled all the arts within thy circumference, but art
unskilful in the word of righteousness, thou wouldst be Paul's unlearned
person—as unfit to be a minister as he that hath read all the body of the law
is to be a physician if ignorant of this art.  I do not here intend to nourish the vain conceit of those
sons of ignorance who think human learning unnecessary for a min­ister’s
furniture.  Truly, without this, we
should soon come to our old mumpsismus, and run into the barbarism of former
times.  I have read of one Beda,
that dissuaded Francis I., a French king—and that when learned Budæus was
present—from his princely resolution of setting up professors of languages in
is university, saying, ‘The Greek tongue was the foun­tain of all heresies;’
but the man was found to understand not a word of Greek himself.  Indeed, few or none will speak against
learning but those that have not so much of it as to make them understand its
use.  I dare not bid our ministers,
as some fanatics have done, burn all their books but the Bible.  No; but I would exhort them to prefer
it above all their other books, and to direct all their other studies to
furnish them with Scripture knowledge. 
As the bee that flies over the whole garden, and brings all the honey
she gets from every flower therein into her hive; so should the minister run
over all his other books, and reduce their notions for his help in this. As the
Israelites offered up the jewels and ear-rings borrowed of the Egyptians to the
service of the taber­nacle, benedicta philosophorum sunt peculia Chris­tianorum—the
good saying of philosophers are the property of Christians.  And certainly there are such jewels to
be borrowed even from them, as may be­come the ear of the Christian, so they be
refined and gospellized.  Thus the
captive virgin, Deut.
21,
when her head was shaved, her nails pared, and her gar­ment changed, might be
taken into an Israelite’s bos­om. 
Religion and learning revived together.  The light which Erasmus brought into the schools helped
Luther’s labours in the church.

           But,
to return to the exhortation in hand. 
O, let us that are ministers of the gospel give up ourselves to the
study of the word.  We are, as one
well calls us, but ‘younger brethren’ to the apostle.  Ministerial gifts were left them by Christ, as the
inheritance by the father to his eldest son and heir.  But we must work for our living.  They had their knowledge of the word, as Jacob his venison,
brought to their hand without hunting; but if we will know the mind of God, we
must trace it out by our diligence; but ever taking prayer in our company.  This I am sure was Paul’s charge to
Timothy, ‘Give attendance to reading,’ I Tim. 4:13.  Follow thy book close, O Tim­othy, and ‘Meditate upon these
things; give thyself wholly to them,’ ver. 15.  z+< J@bJ@4H ÆF24, in his totus sis—be wholly
taken up therewith.  And mark why:
‘That thy profiting may appear to all;’ that is, that thou mayest appear to be
a growing preacher to those that hear thee.  O how shall the people grow if the minister doth not?  And how shall he grow, if he doth not
daily drink in more than he pours out? That minister must needs spend upon the
stock that hath no comings in from a constant trade in his study.  If the nurse doth not feed, and that
more than another, she may soon bring herself and child into a consump­tion.  As we would not therefore see the souls
that hang on our breasts languish for want of milk, or our­selves faint in our
work, let us endeavour our recruits be suitable to our expense.  Study and pray: pray and study
again.  Think not your work is done
for all the week when the Sabbath is past.  Take a little breath, and return to thy labour; as the
seedsman sits down at the land's end to rest himself a while, and then rises up
to go before the plough again.  We
have reason to be more choice of our time then others, because it is less our
own.  There is none in thy par­ish
but have a share in it.  We are
thieves to our people’s souls when we do not husband it to their best
advantage.  ‘All...are yours;
whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas;’ yours for the service of your faith.  Is the parent bound to husband his
estate and time for the provision of his children?  And should not the spiritual father have as natural
affection to his people?  How great
a labour this must needs be both to mind and body, did they understand, they
would both more pity, and encourage, his minister in his work.  God move your hearts to it whom he hath
blessed with faithful labourers. 
Help them in their study for you, by easing them of their worldly cares
for themselves.  Some people may
thank themselves that their provision is so mean, by being accessory to the
minister’s distractions in his work and diversion from his calling.  For, by their oppression or purloin­ing
his livelihood, they force him in a manner to turn worldling; and the time
which he should spend in providing bread for their souls is laid out to get
bread for his family’s bodies.

           Second
Duty.  In the pulpit use no
other sword but this, and handle it faithfully.  Remember whose errand thou bring­est, and deliver it, 1.
Purely.  2. Freely.

           1.
Use the sword of the word purely. 
And that in a threefold respect: (1.) Pure from error.  (2.) Pure from passion.  (3.) Pure from levity and vanity.

           (1.)
Pure from error.  Think it
not enough your text is Scripture, but let your whole sermon be also such—I
mean agreeable to it.  Thou art an
ambas­sador, and as such bound up in thy instructions. Take heed of venting thy
own dreams and fancies in God’s name. 
‘He that hath my word, let him speak my word faithfully,’ Jer. 23:28—that is,
purely, without embasing or mingling it with his own dreams.  So he expounds himself, ‘What is the
chaff to the wheat? saith the Lord.’ 
All is chaff besides the pure word of God; and what hath it to do to be
blended with it?  Such a one may
fear lest God from heaven should give him the lie while he is in the
pulpit.  O stamp not God’s image on
thine own coin.  We live in
high-flown times.  Many people are
not content with truths that lie plain in the Scripture.  And some, to please their wanton
palates, have sublimated their notions so high, till they have flown out of the
sight of the Scrip­ture, and unawares run themselves with others into dangerous
errors.  Be well assured it is a
truth, before thou acquaintest thy people with it.  If thou wilt play the mountebank, choose not the pulpit for
thy stage. Make not experiments upon the souls of thy people, by delivering
what is doubtful and hath not abode the trial of the furnace.  Better feed thy people with sound
doctrine, though plain meal; than that thou shouldst, with an outlandish dish,
light on a wild gourd that brings death into their pot.

           (2.)
Pure from passion.  The
pulpit is an un­seemly place to vent our discontent and passions in. Beware of
this strange fire.  The man of God
must be gentle and meek, and his words with meekness of wisdom.  The oil makes the nail drive without
split­ting the board.  The word
never enters the heart more kindly, than when it falls most gently.  ‘Ride prosperously, because of truth
and meekness,’ Ps.
45:4.
Be as rough to thy people's sins as thou canst, so thou beest gentle to their
souls.  Dost thou take the rod of
reproof into thine hand?  Let them
see that love, not wrath, give the blow. 
Nurses are careful that they do not heat their milk, knowing that it
will breed ill blood in the child that sucks it.  The word preached comes indeed best from a warm heart, but
if there goes a feverish heat withal, it breeds ill blood in the hearers'
thoughts, and prejudice to the person makes him puke up the milk.  God knows I speak not against the minister’s
zeal, so it be from above, ‘pure’ and ‘peaceable.’  Save all thy heat for God, spend it not in thine own cause,
and it was enough God heard it. 
But when a sin was committed immediately against God, this meek man can
be all of a flame: ‘Who is on God's side? who?’  He may take most liberty in reproving his people's sins
against God, that takes least liberty in his own cause, and who hath a grave
ready to bury injuries done to himself in.

           (3.)
Pure from levity and vanity. 
The word of God is too sacred a thing, and preaching too solemn a work,
to be toyed and played with, as is the usage of some, who make a sermon nothing
but a matter of wit, and to flaunt it forth in a garish discourse.  What is this to the business of
preaching?  Their sermon is too
like a child’s baby, from which if you take the dressing, the rest is worth
nothing.  Unpin this story, take
off that gaudy phrase, and nothing is left in the discourse.  If we mean to do good, we must come not
only in word, but with power. 
Satan budges not for a thousand such squibs and witcracks.  Draw thou therefore this sword out of
thine own fine scabbard, and strike with its naked edge.  This you will find the only way to
pierce your people’s consciences, and fetch blood of their sins.  I do not here speak against the use of
those parts which God hath given unto any; nor against the fitting and laying
our discourse so as it may most insinuate into our people's affections, and
steal into their hearts, by the gratefulness it finds with their ear.  This is our duty.  ‘Because the preacher was wise,...he
sought to find out acceptable words,’ Ecc. 12:9.  Not rude, loose, and indigested stuff, in a slovenly manner
brought forth, lest the sluttery of the cook should turn the stomachs of the
guests.  The apothecary mixeth his
potion so as his patient may take it down with less regret, if not with some
delight; but still he hath a care that he weakens not its purging operation by
making it over-pleasant to the palate. 
As they were ‘acceptable words,’ so upright, ‘words of truth,’ ver. 10.

           2.
Use the sword of the word, as purely, so freely.  O take heed of enslaving the word of
God to thy own lust or another’s will, though the greatest in thy parish.  In a steward it is required that he be
‘faithful,’ I
Cor. 4:2.  Now the preacher’s faithfulness stands
in relation to him that intrusts him. 
It is very unlikely that a steward, in giving out provision, should
please all the servants in the house. 
Such officers have least thanks when they do their work best!  He that thinks to please men, goes
about an endless and needless work. 
Man’s word’s will not break thy bones.  A wise physician seeks to cure, not please, his
patient.  He that chides when he is
sick for the bitterness of the potion, will con thee thanks for it when he is
recovered.  The apostle passeth by
the thoughts of men as a thing inconsiderable, not worthy the interrupting him
in his work.  ‘With me it is a very
small thing that I should be judged of you,’ ver. 3 of the fore-quoted place.  As if he had said, ‘It shall be known
at the great audit, when my Master comes to reckon with me, whether I have been
faithful; and it is time enough to have my name righted when he will vindicate
his own.’  No doubt it was a great
temptation to Micaiah, when Ahab’s messenger, by colleaguing with him,
endeavoured to bring him in his message over unto the king’s sense; but mark
his noble answer—‘As the Lord liveth, what the Lord saith, that will I speak.’

           Some
think that Micaiah was that disguised prophet that denounced judgment against
Ahab for Benhadad’s dismission, and that now he was fetched out of prison; for
the king bids, ‘carry him back unto Ammon the governor,’ I Kings 22:26.  If so, then Micaiah had the advantage
by one flattering sermon to have gotten his liberty and the king’s favour to
boot.  Yet to the dungeon he will
go again, rather than prostitute the word to Ahab’s lust.  Blessed Paul was of the same mind:
‘Wherein,’ speaking of the gospel, ‘I suffer trouble, as an evil doer, even
unto bonds; but the word of God is not bound,’ II Tim. 2:9.  As if he had said, ‘They shall never
make me enslave that neither in prison nor at the block.’  No doubt Paul might have been free,
could he have been content the word should have been bound.  But he was too faith­ful to procure his
liberty with imprisonment of the truth by a sinful silence.  If ever it was a time of temp­tations
to ministers—and there were need to stir them up in it to keep the word of
God’s patience—it is in these last dreggy days of the world, of which it is
prophesied, ‘men shall not endure sound doctrine.’ Now therefore, to bear
witness to the truth, and to make full proof of their ministry in such a
perverse and froward generation, needs more greatness of spirit than flesh and
blood can help them to.  It is no
trial for a minister to speak truth freely among its friends, but among those
that despise it, and are en­raged with the messenger for delivering his errand.
This made the confession of our Lord so glorious, I Tim. 6:13.  It was before Pontius Pilate, a bloody
ene­my against him and the truth he witnessed to.  There­fore our people may well bear with us when we speak
freely in God's name; yea, though we come upon their ground, and our message
rifles their consciences.  We have
it in our commission: ‘I have set thee for a tower and a fortress among my
people, that thou mayest know and try their way,’ Jer. 6:27.  If a warrant lies but in a constable's
hand to search your house, you cannot be angry with him for doing his office,
because you dare not stand betwixt him and the displeasure of his prince,
should he neglect it.

 

 

 

[1]The book cites I John
3:12; but that appears to be in error, hence the correction. — SDB

[2]Ruff, dignity, elevation;
as e.g. ‘princes in the ruff of all their glory.’—Ed.

[3]Nusled or nustled,
fondled, cherished.—Ed.

[4]Pesthouse, [Archaic]; a shelter
or hospital for those infected with a pestilential or contagious disease. —
SDB.

[5]Trapan, to ensnare, to catch
by stratagem.—Imp. Dict.

[6]Refel, reject, repulse.—Webster’s

Direction Eleventh.

 

The
necessary duty of the Christian, as clothed in the Whole Armour of God:

or,
how the Spiritual Panoply may alone be kept furbished.

 

‘Praying always with
all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto

with all perseverance
and supplication for all saints’ 
(Eph. 6:18).

 

         We
have at last set before you the Christian in his armour; and now he wants
nothing to furnish him for the battle, or enable him for the victory, but the
presence of his general to lead him on, and bring him honourably off again by
the wisdom of his conduct; which, that he may obtain, the apostle sets him to
prayer—‘praying always,’ &c. 
As if he had said, ‘You have now, Christian, the armour of God; but take
heed thou forgettest not to engage God of this armour by humble prayer for your
as­sistance, lest for all this you be worsted in the fight.  He that gives you the arms, can only
teach you to use them, and enable you to overcome by their use.’  I am not ignorant that some make this
of ‘prayer,’ a piece of armour, and to be reckoned as a part of the
panoply.  The truth is, it matters
not much in what notion we handle it, whether as a distinct piece of armour, or
as a duty and means necessarily required to the use of our armour.  The latter I shall follow; partly
because it hath no piece of material armour, as the other all have, allotted to
it for a resemblance; as also, because by the connection it hath, not with the
last preceding words only, but with the whole discourse of the armour, it seems
to be superadded as a general duty influential upon all the pieces forenamed;
and may be read with every piece:—Take the girdle of truth, praying with all
prayer, &c.; having on the breastplate of righteousness, praying with all
prayer, &c., and the same of the rest.  The Christian’s armour will rust except it be furbished and
scoured with the oil of prayer. 
What the key is to the watch, that [is] prayer to our graces—it winds
them up and sets them agoing.  In
the words observe,

         FIRST.  The duty commanded, ‘prayer;’
with the end for which it is appointed, viz. as a help to all his graces and
means to carry on his war against sin and Satan: BD@F,LP`µ,<@4—‘praying.’

         SECOND.  A directory for prayer; wherein
we are instructed how to perform this duty in six distinct divisions of the
subject.  First. The time for prayer—‘praying always.’  Second.
The kinds and sorts of prayer—‘with all prayer and supplication.’  Third.  The inward principle of prayer from
which it must flow—‘in the Spirit.’  Fourth. The
guard to be set about the duty of prayer—‘watching thereunto.’  Fifth.  The unwearied constancy to be exercised
in the duty—‘with all perseverance.’ Sixth.  The comprehensiveness of the duty, or
persons for whom we are to pray—‘for all saints.’

 

 

 

DIRECTION
XI.—FIRST GENERAL PART.

 

[The duty commanded, and its connection with the
whole discourse.]

 

‘Praying’  (Eph. 6:18).

 

         We
begin with the first, the duty in general, together with the connection it hath
with the whole preceding discourse of the armour, implied in the participle BD`F,LP`µ,<@4—‘praying.’  That is, furnish yourselves with the
armour of God, and join prayer to all these graces for you defence against your
spiritual enemies.  Let us take the
three following branches of the subject. 
First. Prayer as a
necessary duty to the Christian.  Second. Why it is so necessary a means,
with our other armour, for our defence. 
Third. Satan’s designs
against prayer.

         So
that the point deducible from this is—

BRANCH
FIRST.

 

[Prayer a necessary duty to the Christian

in his
spiritual warfare.]

 

         We
lay down as the point deducible from what we have said the following doctrine.

         Doctrine.  That prayer is a necessary duty to be performed by the
Christian, and used with all other means in his spiritual warfare.  This is the ‘silver trumpet,’ by the sound
of which he is to alarm heaven, and call in God to his succour, Num. 10:9. The
saints’ enemies fall till God riseth; and God stays to be raised by their
prayers.  ‘Let God arise, let his
enemies be scattered,’ Ps.
68:1.  Prayer, it is a catholic duty, and
means to be made use of in all our affairs and enterprises. What bread and salt
are to our table, that prayer is to the Christian in all his undertakings,
enjoyments, and temptations. 
Whatever our meal is, bread and salt are set on the board; and whatever
our condition is, prayer must not be forgot.  As we dip all our morsels in salt, and eat them with bread;
so we are to act every grace, season every enjoyment, mingle every duty, and
oppose every temptation, with prayer. It hath been the constant practice
of the saints in all their dangers and straits, whether from enemies with­in or
without, from sin, devils, or men, to betake themselves tot he throne of grace,
and draw a line of prayer about them; accounting this the only safe pos­ture to
stand in for their defence.  When
God called Abraham from Haran into a strange country, where he wandered from
place to place amidst strangers, who could not but have him in some suspicion
—considering the train and retinue he had—and this their suspicion create many
dangers to this holy man from the kings round about, it is observable what
course Abraham takes for his defence. 
You shall find in his removes from place to place, the memorable thing
recorded of him is, that ‘he builded an altar unto the Lord, and called upon
the name of the Lord,’ Gen.
12:7, 8; 13:3, 4.  This was the breastwork he raised and
entrenched himself in.  When he had
once by prayer cast himself into the arms of God for protection, then he made
account that he was in his castle. 
But what need Abraham have put himself so often to this trouble?  Had he not the security of God’s
promise when he set forth, that God would bless them that blessed him, and
curse them that cursed him?  And
had he not faith to believe God would be a God of his word to perform what he
had promised?  We confess both. But
neither God’s promise, nor Abraham’s faith thereon, gave any supersedeas[1] to his duty
in prayer.  The promise is given as
a ground of faith, and faith as an encouraging help in prayer; but neither
[are] intended to discharge us of our duty, and save us the labour of that
work.

         And
what Abraham did, the same have all the saints ever done.  The great spoils which they ever got
from their enemies was in the field of prayer.  If Moses sent Joshua into the valley against Amalek, himself
will be on the mount to storm heaven by his prayer, while he is engaged
in fight with the enemy below; and the victory it is plain was not got by
Joshua’s sword, so much as Moses’ prayer. 
Jehosha­phat, when he had near a million of men mustered for the field,
besides his garrisons that were all well appointed, yet we find him as hard at
prayer as if he had not had a man on his side: ‘We know not what to do, but our
eyes upon thee,’ II
Chr. 20:12.  Now if these worthies when they had but
flesh and blood—men like themselves—to contest with, did yet fetch in their
help from heaven, and make such use of prayer’s auxiliary force—and that when
other helps were not wanting—lest they should be found under the neglect of an
indispensable duty and prevalent means in order to their defence, how much more
doth it be­hove the Christian, both in point of duty and pru­dence, to take the
same course in his spiritual war against principalities and powers!  For the saint’s graces, when best
trained and exercised, are, without prayer, far less able to stand against
Satan than they, with their military preparation, were to repel the force of
men like themselves.  ‘Watch and
pray,’ saith our Saviour, ‘that ye enter not into temptation,’ Matt. 26:41.  The not keeping this pass gave the
enemy Sa­tan a fair occasion to come in upon them.  For we see, not taking Christ's counsel, they were all,
though holy men, shamefully foiled. 
Most of them shifted for themselves by a cowardly flight, while they
left their Lord in his enemy's hands. 
And he that thought to show more courage than his fellows, at last came
off with deeper guilt and shame than them all, by deny­ing his Master, who was
even then owning him in the face of death, yea his Father’s wrath.  And it is observable that, as they were
led into temptation through their own neglect of prayer, so they were rescued and
led out of it again by Christ’s prayer, which he mercifully laid in beforehand
for them.  ‘I have prayed...that
thy faith fail not,’ Luke
22:32.

         But
that which above all commends this duty to us, is Christ’s own practice; who,
besides his constant exercise in it, did, upon any great undertaking where­in
he was to meet opposition from Satan and his in­struments, much more abound in
it.  At his baptism, being now to
enter the stage of his public ministry, and to make his way thereunto through
the fierce and furious assaults of Satan—with whom he was to grapple as it were
hand to hand after his forty days’ solitude—we find him at prayer, Luke 3:21.  Which prayer had a present answer,
heaven opening, and the Spirit descending on him, with this voice, saying,
‘Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased,’ ver. 22.  And now Christ marcheth forth
undauntedly to meet his enemy, who waited for him in the wilder­ness.  Again, when he intended to commission
his apostles, and send them forth to preach the gospel —which he knew would
bring the lion fell and mad out of his den, as also derive the world’s wrath
upon those his messengers—he first sets his disciples on praying, Matt. 9:38, and then
spends the whole night himself in the same work before their mission, Luke 6:12.  But above all, when he was to fight his
last battle with the prince of this world, and also conflict with the wrath of
his Father, now armed against him, and ready to be poured upon him for man’s
sin—whose cause he had espoused—on the success of which great undertaking
depended the saving or losing his media­tory kingdom, O how then did he bestir
himself in prayer! It is said, ‘He prayed more earnestly.’  As a wrestler that strains every vein
in his body, so he put forth his whole might, ‘with strong crying and tears
unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard,’ Heb. 5:7, so that he
won the field, though himself slain upon the place.  The spoils of this glor­ious victory believers do now
divide, and shall enjoy it to all eternity.  And what is the English of all this, but to show us both the
necessity and prevalency of prayer? 
Without this, no victory to be had, though we have our armour; but this,
with that, will make us conquerors over all.

 

 

BRANCH SECOND.

 

[Why
prayer is necessary to the Christian

in his
spiritual warfare.]

 

         Now,
to proceed and show why prayer is so ne­cessary a means with our other armour
for our de­fence, let us set forth these reasons in order.  First.
Because of the co‑ordination of this duty with all other means for the
Christian’s defence, and that by divine appointment.  Second. Because
of the influ­ence that prayer hath upon all our graces.  Third.
Because of the great prevalency prayer hath with God.

 

[The co‑ordination of prayer with
other means for

the Christian’s
defence makes it necessary.]

 

         Reason First.  The first reason is taken from the co-ordination of this
duty of prayer with all other means for the Christian’s defence, and that by
divine appointment.  He that
bids us take the girdle of truth, breastplate of righteousness, &c.,
commands also not to neglect this duty. 
Now what God joins we must not sever.  The efficacy of co‑ordinate means lies in their
conjunction.  The force of an army
consists not in this troop, or that one regiment, but in all the parts in a
body.  And if any single troop or
company shall presume to fight the enemy alone, what can they ex­pect but to be
routed by the enemy and punished by their general also?  Let not any say they use this means and
that.  If any one duty be willingly
neg­lected, the golden chain of obedience is broke.  And bonum non nisi ex integris—nothing is really good
that is not so in all its parts. 
As to a good action, there is required a concurrence of all the several
ingredients and causes; so to make a good Christian, there is required a
conscientious care to use all ap­pointed means.  He must follow the Lord ‘fully;’ not make here a balk
and there a furrow.  It is not the
least of Satan's policy to get between one duty and another, that the man may
not unite his forces, and be uniform in his endeavour.

         Few
so bad as to use no means; and not many so faithful to God and themselves as
conscientiously to use all.  One,
he pretends to sincerity, and dares appeal to God that he means well, and his
heart is good.  But, for ‘the
breastplate of righteousness,’ it is too heavy and cumbersome for him to
wear.  Another seems very just and
righteous, so that he would not wrong his neighbour, no, not of one penny, to
gain many pounds.  But, as for
faith in Christ, this he never looks after.  A third boasts of his faith and hope, as if he did not doubt
of his salvation.  But, as for the
word of God that should beget and increase it, he cares not how seldom he looks
on it at home,or hears it in the public. 
And a fourth, he hath this to say for himself, ‘That he is a constant
hearer, his seat at church is seldom found empty, and at home the Bible often
in his hands.’  But, as for prayer,
his closet, could it speak, would bear witness against him, that he seldom or
never performs it.  This half doing
will prove many a soul’s whole undoing. 
Samuel asked Jesse, ‘Are here all thy children?’  Though but a stripling wanting, he must
be sent for before he will sit down. 
So may I say to many that are very busy and forward in some particular
duties and means, ‘Is here all that God hath given thee in charge?’  If but one be wanting, God's blessing
will be wanting also. And as that son was wanting of Jesse’s which God did
intend to set the crown upon, so that duty and means which is most neglected,
we have cause to think is the means which God would especially crown with his
blessing upon our faithful endeavour.

 

[The
influence of prayer
upon Christian

graces makes it a
necessary duty.]

 

         Reason Second.  The second reason is taken from the influence that prayer
hath upon all our graces.  And
that in a double respect.  It will
help to evidence the truth of grace, and also advance its growth.

         First.  The duty of prayer, frequently and
spiritu­ally performed, will be a means to evidence the truth of our graces.  And this is of no small importance to
the Christian, when he hath to do with the tempter. For that which he mainly
drives at, is to bring the Christian into a suspicion of himself as to the work
of grace in him, thereby to overturn the very foundation of his hope, and put
him to a stand in his endeavours. He, indeed, will have little list to go on
that fears he is not in his right way. 
I have heard that politicians can make use of a state lie—though the
credit of it lasts but a little while—for great advantage to their
designs.  And he that learns them
this art makes much more use of it himself to further his designs against the
Christian.  Because he could not
keep Christ in the grave, therefore he raiseth a lie, to hinder the belief of his
resurrection in the world. And when he cannot hinder the production of grace,
he misreports the work of the Christian, as if all were but a cheat put upon
him by his own deceitful heart; which the poor creature is prone enough, God
knows, to believe.  And so, though
the fear be false and groundless; yet, being believed, [it] produceth as sad a
confusion to his thoughts, and distress to his spirit, as if it were true.  Jacob could not have mourned more if
Joseph had indeed been slain, than he did when there was no such matter.  Nor could a wicked wretch easily endure
more terror and horror than some precious saints have felt, for the time that
Satan's false report—slandering the truth of their grace—hath found credit with
them.  Now, in prayer, the Christian
stands at great advantage to find out the truth of his state, and that upon a
double account.

         1.
God doth commonly take this season, when his people are pouring out their souls
to him, to open his heart to them, and to give his testimony both to their
persons and graces.  God hath
his sealing hours, in which his Spirit comes and bears witness to his
children's state and grace.  And
this of prayer is a principal one. 
Where was it that God so marvellously dignified, and if I may so say,
knighted Jacob with that new title of honour, ‘Thou shalt be called Israel,’
but in the field of prayer?  What
was the happy hour in which the angel knocked at Daniel’s door to let him know
how God loved him? was it not when he was knocking at heaven door by his
prayer?  ‘At the beginning of thy
supplications the commandment came forth, and I am come to shew thee; for thou
art greatly beloved,’ Dan.
9:23.  When got the woman of Canaan the sight
of her faith, not only that it was true, but also strong—‘O woman, great is thy
faith!’ but when her heart was car­ried forth so vehemently in prayer?  Yea, Christ himself heard that
miraculous voice from heaven, ‘This is my beloved Son,’ when he was lifting up
his eyes in prayer to heaven, Luke 3:21.

         2.
The duty of prayer affords a demonstrative argument for the truth of that
soul’s grace which spiritually performs it.  The Spirit of God, when he testifies to the truth of a
saint’s grace, useth to join issue with the saint's own spirit, ‘The Spirit
itself beareth witness with our spirit,’ Rom. 8:16.  Now the testimony which the Christian's own spirit gives for
him, is taken from those vital acts of the new creature that operate in
him—such as sincerity, godly sorrow for sin, love of holiness, and other of
this nature are. Now, no way do these and other graces more sensibly discover
themselves to the Christian’s view than in prayer.  Here sincerity shows itself in the Christians’ plain‑heartedness
to confess all his sins freely, with­out extorting, and nakedly,
without extenuation or reservation—when there is no false box in the cabinet of
the soul to lock up a darling sin in. 
Holy David, Ps.
32,
having, ver.
1,
pronounced him ‘blessed’ that had no sin imputed to him, and, ‘in whose spirit
there is no guile,’ gives ver.
5,
this instance of his own sincerity, that he ‘acknowledged his sin, and did not
hide his iniquity;’ as also how well he sped thereby, ‘And thou forgavest the
iniquity of my sin.’  Again, here [i.e.
in prayer] doth the Christian give vent to his heart, aching with inward grief
for sin.  Prayer is the channel
into which godly sorrow pours forth itself, and runs down in brinish tears,
while the Christian is accusing himself of, and judging himself for, his
abominations, with deep shame and self‑abhorrency. In a word, here the soul’s
love to holiness flames forth in his fervent vehement desires and requests for
grace that can bear no denial, but even breaks for the longing it hath to it.

         Thus
we see spirit of prayer is both an argument of true grace, and a means to draw
out that true grace into act, whereby its truth may be the better exposed to
view.  A ‘spirit of grace and of
supplications’ are both joined together, Zech. 12:10.  The latter doth indi­cate the former.  What is prayer but the breathing forth
of that grace which is breathed into the soul by the Holy Spirit?  When God breathed into man the breath
of life, he became a living soul. 
So, when God breathes into the creature the breath of spiritual life, it
becomes a praying soul.  ‘Behold he
prayeth,’ saith God of Paul to Ananias, Acts 9:11.  As if he had said, ‘Be not afraid of him; he is an honest
soul; thou mayest trust him for he prays.’  Praying is the same to the new creature as crying is to the
natural.  The child is not learned
by art or example to cry, but instructed by nature; it comes into the world
crying.  Praying is not a lesson
got by forms and rules of art, but flowing from principles of new life itself.

         Second.  The duty of prayer, as it is a means to
evidence, so to increase, grace. 
The praying Christian is the thriving Christian; whereas he that is
infrequent or slothful in praying, is a waster.  He is like one that lives at great expense, and drives
little or no trade to bring wherewithal to maintain it.  Now prayer helps toward the increase
and growth of grace in these two ways:—1. As it draws the habits of grace into
act, and exerciseth them.  2. As it
sets the soul nigh to God.

         1.  As it draws the habits of grace into
act, and exerciseth them.  Now
as exercise brings a double benefit to the body, so this to the soul.

         (1.)
Exercise doth help to digest or breathe forth those humours that clog the
spirits.  One that stirs
little, we see, grows pursy, and is soon choked up with phlegm, which exercise
clears the body of.  Prayer is the
saint’s exercise‑field, where his graces are breathed.  It is as the wind to the air to sweep
the soul; as bellows to the fire, which clears the coals of those ashes that
smother them.  The Christian, while
in this world, lives but in an unwholesome climate. One while the delights of
it deaden and dull his love to Christ; another while, the troubles he meets in
it damp his faith on the promise. 
How now should the poor Christian get out of these his distempers, had
he not a throne of grace to resort to, where, if once his soul be in a melting
frame, he, like one laid in a kingly sweat, soon breathes out the malignity of
his disease, and comes into his right temper again.  How oft do we find the holy prophet, when he first kneels
down to pray, full of fears and doubts, who yet before he and the duty part,
grows into a sweet familiarity with God and repose in his own spirit?  He begins his prayer, as if it were
come to that pass that he thought that God would never give him a kind look
more: ‘How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord? for ever?’ Ps. 13:1.  But by that time he hath exercised
himself a little in duty, his distemper wears off, the mists scat­ter, and his
faith breaks out as the sun in its strength. ‘I have trusted in thy mercy; my
heart shall rejoice in thy salvation, I will sing unto the Lord,’ ver. 5.  Thus his faith lays the cloth,
expecting a feast ere long to be set on. 
He that even now questioned whether he should ever hear good news from
heaven, is so strong in faith, as to make himself merry with the hopes of that
mercy which he is assured will come at last. Abraham began with fifty, but his
faith got ground on God every step, till he brought down the price of their
lives to ten.

         (2.)
Exercise whets the appetite to that food which must be taken before strength
can be got. And causa causæ est causa causati—the remoter cause of
an immediate one is, in a certain sense, the cause of that which flows
as an effect from the more immedi­ate. 
The hone that sets the edge on the husband­man’s scythe, helps him to
mow the grass.  None comes so sharp‑set
to the word—which is the saint’s food to strengthen his grace—as the Christian
that takes prayer in his way to the ordinance.  The stronger natural heat is, the better stomach the man
hath to his meat.  Love in the soul
is what natural heat is in the body. 
The more the soul loves the word, the more craving it has after it.  Now, as exer­cise stirs up the natural
heat of the body, so prayer excites this spiritual heat of love in the saint’s
bosom to the word.  Cornelius is an
excellent instance for it. We find him hard at prayer in his house, when be­hold
a vision that bids him send for Peter, who should preach the gospel to him—a
happy reward for his de­votion! 
Now, see what a sharp appetite this praying soul hath to the word.  He upon this presently posts away
messengers for Peter, and before he comes, gathers an assembly together—no
doubt all of his friends that he could get.  There he sits with a longing heart waiting for the
preacher.  As soon as ever he sees
his face, he falls down at his feet, receiving him with that reverence and
respect as if he had been an angel dropped out of heaven.  Presently he sets Peter to work, though
some may think he passed good man­ners in putting him to labour after so long a
journey, before he had refreshed him with some collation or other; but the good
man was so hungry to hear the message he brought, that he could not well pacify
his soul to stay any longer, and like a man truly hunger-bit, he is ready to
catch at any truth—though never so bitter—which shall be set before him.  ‘Now therefore are we all here present
before God, to hear all things that are commanded thee of God,’ Acts 10:33.  And when the sermon is done, so savoury
and sweet was the meal, that he is loath to think of parting with Peter before
he gets more from him; and therefore beseeches him to stay some days with
him.  One ser­mon did but make his
teeth water for another.  O how
unlike are they who come reeking out of the world to a sermon, to Cornelius
that riseth from prayer to wait for the preacher?

         2.  Prayer helps our graces, as it sets
the soul nigh to God.  In
prayer we are said to ‘draw nigh to God,’ James 4:8—to ‘come before his presence,’ Ps. 95:2. In it we
have ‘access by one spirit unto the Father,’ Eph. 2:18, as one that brings a petition to a
prince is called into his presence‑chamber—one of the nearest approaches to God
which the creature is capable of on this side heaven, which was signified by
the in­cense altar, that stood so high even within the vail. Prayer, it is
called, ‘The throne of grace.’  We
come in prayer to the throne of God, and put our petition into the very hand of
God, as he sits on his throne in all his royalty.  Now, as prayer is so near an approach to God, it hath a
double influence into the growth of the saint’s grace.

         (1.)
By this near access to God, the soul is put the more into a holy awe and
fear of that pure and piercing eye of God which he sees looking on him.  It is true, God is ever near us.  Pray or not pray, we can­not rid
ourselves of his presence.  But
never hath the soul such apprehensions of his presence as when it is set before
God in prayer.  Now the soul speaks
to God as it were mouth to mouth; and considering how holy that majesty is with
whom he hath to do in prayer, he must needs reverence and tremble before
him.  Now the natural issue of this
holy fear, what can it be but a care to approve itself to God?  And this care cherishes every
grace.  They are carried in its
arms, as the child in its nurse's. 
It keeps the girdle of truth buckled close about his loins.  ‘O,’ saith the soul, ‘I must either
leave praying, or leave doubling and juggling with God by hypocrisy!’  It will strength­en the breastplate of
holiness.  It is not possible that
a Christian should walk loosely all day, and be free and familiar with God at
night.  He that waits on the person
of a prince will be careful to carry nothing about him that should be offensive
to his eye; yea, afraid lest anything should come to his ear, that should bring
him under a cloud in his prince’s thoughts, and remove him from his place about
him. And courtiers have those that will be always under­mining then if they
can; and the Christian wants not such an adversary—for Satan is at his right
hand at every miscarriage to accuse him unto God, saying, ‘This is your
favourite.  Though he be so devout
in prayer, he can do this or that, when the duty is over.’ And therefore, if
any in the world have a tie upon them more than others to walk exactly, it is
they that minister before the Lord in this duty.  Princes are more curious of their attendants than of others
at further distance from them. 
When David showed some distraction of mind before king Achish, he bids
away with him.  ‘Have I need of
madmen, that ye have brought this fellow to play the madman in my
presence?’  And does a poor mortal
man that sits on a throne of dust, only heaped up and raised a little above his
fellows, take such state on him as not to bear the discomposure of any before
him?  How much less will the great
God—though we wink for a time at the foul sins of others—brook any unholy
behaviour in those that wait so nigh upon him!  This, no doubt, made Cain run so fast from the presence of
God, because he knew that it was no standing so nigh God with such an unholy
heart as he carried in his bosom.

         (2.)
By the soul’s near access to God in prayer, it receives sweet influences of
grace from him.  All grace
comes from the God of grace; not only the first seed of grace, but its growth
and increment; and God usually sheds forth his grace in a way of communion with
his people.  Now, by prayer the
Christian is led into most intimate communion with God.  And from communion follows communication.  As the warmth the chicken finds by
sitting under the hen’s wings cherisheth it, so are the saints' graces
enlivened and strengthened by the sweet influences they receive from this close
communion with God.  The Christian
is compared to a tree, Ps.
1.  And those trees flourish most, and bear
sweetest fruit, which stand most in the sun.  The praying Christian is, as they say of the Rhodians, in
sole positus—placed in the sun. 
He stands nigh to God, and hath, God nigh to him in all that he calls
upon him for.  And therefore you
may expect his fruit to be sweet and ripe, when another stands as it were in
the shade, and at a distance from God (through neglect of, or infrequency in,
this duty), will have little fruit found on his branches, and that but green
and sour.  ‘Those that be planted
in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God.  They shall still bring forth fruit in
old age; they shall be fat and flourishing,’ Ps. 92:13, 14.

 

[The
prevalency of prayer
with God

makes it a necessary
duty.]

 

         Reason Third.  The third reason the Christian should join prayer to all
other means, is taken from the great prevalency prayer hath with God.  He will do no great matter for a saint
without prayer, and nothing is too great for him to do at his request. Prayer,
like Jonathan’s bow, when duly qualified as to the person and act, never
returns empty.  Never was faithful
prayer lost at sea.  No merchant
trades with such certainty as the praying saint.  Some prayers indeed have a longer voyage than others; but
then they come with the richer lading at last into the port. In trading, he
gets most by his commodity that can forbear his money longest.  So does the Christian that can with
most patience stay for a return of his prayer. Such a soul shall never be
ashamed of his waiting. The promise is an assuring office to secure him his
adventure, I
John 3:22.  O who can express the power­ful oratory
of a believer's prayer!  Vocula
Pater form­aliter dicta in corde, est eloquentia, quam Demos­thenes, Cicero, et
eloquentissimi in mundo nunquam possunt exprimere (Luther)—this little
word Father, lisped forth in prayer by a child of God, exceeds the eloquence of
Demosthenes, Cicero, and all other so famed orators in the world.

         We
read of taking heaven ‘by force,’ Matt. 11:12.  If ever this may be said to be done it is in prayer. Cælum
tundimus et misericordiam extorquemus, saith Tertullian—we knock at heaven,
and the merciful heart of God flies open, which we bring away with us.  And in the same apology he speaks of
Chris­tians, how they went to pray, as an enemy doth to besiege a town, and
take it by storm—coimus in coetum et congregationem, ut ad Deum quasi
manufactuâ præcationibus ambiamus orantes.  And then he adds, hæc vis Deo grata est—this holy vio­lence
we offer to God in prayer is very pleasing to him.  Surely, if it were not, he would neither help the Christian
so in the work, nor reward him for it when it is done.  Whereas he doth both.  He helped Jacob to overcome: ‘By his strength
he had power with God,’ Hosea
12:3.  That is, not by his own, but by the
strength he had from God.  And then
he puts honour upon him for the victory, ‘Thy name shall be called no more
Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and
hast prevailed,’ Gen.
32:28.  It were easy here to expatiate into a
large history of the great exploits which prayer is renowned for in holy
writ.  James 5:17; Isa. 37;
Dan 2:18; II Sam. 15:31; Est. 4:16; Acts 12:5; John 11:41; Jonah 2:2; Joshua
10:12, 14; II Kings 20:10; Ps. 106:23; Eze. 22:30.  This is the key that hath opened and again shut heaven.  It hath van­quished mighty armies,
and unlocked such secrets as passed the skill of the very devil himself
to find out.  It hath strangled desperate
plots in the very womb wherein they were conceived, and made those engines
of cruelty prepared against the saints recoil upon the inventors of them; so
that they have inherited the gallows which they did set up for others.  At the knock of prayer, prison doors
have opened, the grave hath delivered up its dead; and the sea’s
leviathan, not able to digest his prey, hath been made to vomit it up
again.  It hath stopped he sun’s
chariot in the heavens, yea made it go back.  And that which surpas­seth all, it hath taken hold of the
Almighty, when on his full march against persons and people, and hath put
him into a merciful retreat. 
Indeed, by the power prayer hath with God, it comes to prevail over all
the rest.

         He
that hath a key to God’s heart cannot be shut out, or stopped at the creature’s
door.  Now prayer moves God and
overcomes him, not by causing any change in the divine will, and making God to
take up new thoughts of doing that for his people which he did not before
intend.  No, God is immutable, and
what good he doth in time for his people he purposed before any time was.  But prayer is said to more than
overcome God; because he then gives, what from eter­nity he purposed to give
upon their praying to him. For when God decreed what he would do for his
saints, he also purposed that they should pray for the same.  ‘I will yet for this be enquired of by
the house of Israel, to do it for them,’ Eze. 36:37.  Prayer’s mid­wifery shall be used to deliver the mercies God
pur­poseth and promiseth.  Hezekiah
understood this when he calls the prophet to the church’s labour, and bids
because ‘the children’—that is, deliverance —stuck in her birth, that he should
therefore ‘lift up a prayer,’ Isa. 37:3, 4. 
And when Daniel had found the full reckoning of the promise—how long it
had to go with the deliverance promised for their return from captivity—perceiving
it hastened, he therefore falls hard to prayer, knowing God's purpose to give
doth not discharge us from our duty to ‘ask,’ Dan. 9:3.

 

[Why Christians are
to pray for what God

hath purposed and
promised to give.]

 

         Question.  But why doth God impose this upon the
saints, that they should pray for what he hath purposed and promised to
give?  First. That they may
be conformable to Christ.  Second.
That he may give the good things of the promise with safety to his honour.  Third. To show the great delight
he takes in his saints’ prayers.

         Answer
First.  That they may be
conformable to Christ.  The
design of God is to make every saint like Christ.  This was resolved from eternity Rom. 8:29. Now, as
the limner looks on the person whose picture he would take, and draws his lines
to answer him with the nearest similitude that may be; so doth God look on
Christ as the archetype to which he will conform the saint, in suffering, in
grace, and in glory: yet so that Christ hath the pre-eminence in all.  Every saint must suffer because Christ
suffered: Christ must not have a delicate body under a crucified head.  Yet never any suffered, or could, what
he endured.  Christ is holy, and
therefore shall every saint be, but in an inferior degree.  An image cut in clay cannot be so exact
as that which is engraved on gold. 
Now, as in other things, so in this our conformity to Christ
appears—that as the promises made to him were performed on his prayer to his
Father, so promises made to his saints are given to them in the same way of
prayer.  ‘Ask of me,’ saith God to
his Son, ‘and I shall give thee,’ Ps. 2:8.  And the apostle tells us, ‘Ye have not because ye ask
not.’  God had promised support to
Christ in all his conflicts: ‘Behold my servant, whom I uphold,’ Isa. 42:1.  Yet he prays ‘with strong crying and
tears,’ when his feet stood within the shadow of death.  A seed is promised to him, and victory
over his enemies; yet, for both these, he is at prayer now in heaven.  Christ towards us acts as a king, but
towards his Father as a priest. 
All he speaks to God is on his knee by prayer and intercession.  In like manner the saints. The promise
makes them kings over their lusts, conquerors over their enemies; but it makes
them priests towards God, by prayer humbly to sue out those great things given
in the promise.

         Answer
Second.  That God may give
the good things of the promise with safety to his honour. Secure God but
his glory, and the saint may have what he will.  The very life of God is bound up in his glory.  The creature’s honour is not
intrinsical to his being.  A prince
is a man when his crown and king­dom are gone.  But God cannot be a God, except he be glorious; neither can
he be glorious, unless he be holy, just, merciful, and faithful, &c.  Now, that this his glory may be seen
and displayed, is the great end he propounds both in making and ordering of the
world: ‘The Lord hath made all things for himself,’ Prov. 16:4.  If there were any one occur­rence in
the world which could no way be reducible to the glory of God, it would make
the being of a deity to be ques­tioned. 
But the all‑wise God hath so made, and doth so order, all his creatures
with their actions, that the manifestation of his glory is the result of
all.  Indeed, he forceth it from
some, and takes it by distress, as princes do their taxes from disobedient
subjects. Thus the very wrath of his enemies shall praise him, Ps. 76:10.  But he expects the saints should be
active in­struments to glorify him, and, like loyal loving subjects, pay him the
tribute of his praise freely, with acclamations of joy and gratitude; which,
that they may do, he issueth out his mercies in such a way as may best suit
with this their duty.  And that is
to give the good things he hath purposed and promised to them upon their humble
address in prayer to him. Now two ways the glory of God is secured by this
means.

         1.
The saint, in the very duty of prayer—when he performs it in a qualified
manner—doth highly glorify God. 
Prayer, as it is medium gratiæ—a chan­nel of grace, for the
conveying and deriving blessings from God, the fountain, into the cistern of
our bosoms; so it is medium cultus—a means of worship, whereby we are to
do homage to God, and give him the glory of his deity.  By this we give him ‘the glory of
his power.’  Prayer is a humble
appeal from our impotency to God’s omnipotence.  None begs that at another’s door which he can pleasure
himself with at home.  And if we
thought not God able, we would go to another, not to him.  We give him the glory of his sovereignty
and dominion and acknowledge that he is not only able to procure for us what we
ask, but can give us a right to, and the blessing of, what he gives. Therefore
Christ closeth his prayer with, ‘Thine is the kingdom, the power, and the
glory,’ &c., as a reason why we direct our prayers to God; because he alone
is the sovereign Lord that can invest us in, and give us title to, any
enjoyment.  So that it is high
treason against the crown and dignity of God, when we wither attempt to possess
ourselves of any enjoyments with­out praying to him; or when we pray
religiously to any other besides him. 
By the first we usurp his sover­eignty ourselves, in their language, ‘We
are lords; we will come no more unto thee,’ Jer. 2:31.  And by the second we give away his kingdom and sovereignty
to another.  This was the devil’s
drift when he would have had Christ fall down and worship him, that thereby he
might acknowledge him to have the rule of the world.  Again, by prayer give him the glory of his free mercy.  Men demand a debt, but beg an alms.
When we pray we renounce merit. 
See them op­posed, ‘Whom, though I were righteous, yet would I not
answer, but I would make supplication to my judge,’ Job 9:15.  We might show the same in all the other
attributes.  But this taste from a
few may suf­fice.  And as God,
essentially considered, receives by prayer an acknowledgement of his deity; so
every person in the sacred Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, in prayer are
honoured.  By directing our prayers
to God the Father, we honour him as the source and fountain of all grace and
mercy.  We hon­our the Son in
presenting our prayers in his name to the Father, thereby acknowledging him the
purchaser of the mercies we beg. 
And the Holy Ghost, he re­ceives the honour of that assistance which we
ac­knowledge to receive from him for the duty of prayer. For as we pray to
the Father through the Son, so by the help of the Spirit.

         2.
As God is honoured in the very act and exercise of his duty duly qualified, so by
it the Chris­tian is deeply engaged, and also sweetly disposed, to praise God
for, and glorify him with, the mercies he obtains by prayer.

         (1.)
Prayer engageth to praise God because of his mercies.  In prayer we do not only beg mercy of
God, but vow praise to God for the mercies we beg.  Prayers are called ‘vows,’ ‘Thou, O God, hast heard my
vows;’ Ps.
61:5;
that is, my prayers, in which I solemnly vowed praise for the deliverance I
begged.  It is no prayer where no
vow is included.  We must not think
to bind God and leave ourselves free. 
God ties himself in the promise to help us; but the condition of the ob­ligation
on our part, is, that we will glorify him.  And upon no other terms doth God give us leave to ask any
mercy at his hands.  ‘Call upon me
in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me,’ Ps. 50:15.  Now, what a strong tie doth this lay
upon the praying Christian’s heart, to use the mercies he receives holily, and
to wear with thankfulness what he wins by prayer!  The Christian who would be loath to be taken in a lie to
man, will much more fear to be found a liar to God.  ‘Surely they are my people,’ saith God; ‘children that will
not lie; so he was their Saviour,’ Isa. 63:8.

         (2.)
Prayer is a means to dispose the heart to praise.  Prayer and praise, like the symbolical
qual­ities in the elements, are soon resolved each into the other.  When David begins a psalm with prayer,
he commonly ends it with praise. 
From whence things have their original, thither they return.  From the sea the riverwater comes, and
no mountains can hinder, but back again to the sea it will go.  That spirit which leads the soul out of
itself to God for supply, will direct it to the same God with his praise.  We do not use to borrow money of one
man and pay it to another.  If God
hath been thy ‘strength,’ surely thou wilt make him thy ‘song.’  The thief comes not to thank a man for
what he steals out of his yard. 
And I as little wonder that they do not glorify God for or with his
mercies, who did not ask his leave by prayer for them.  What men do by themselves they ascribe
to themselves.  Mercies ill got are
commonly as ill spent: because they are not sanctified to them, and so be­come
fuel to feed their lusts.  Hence it
is, the more enjoyments they have the more proud and unthankful they are.  But by prayer the Christian’s
enjoyments are sanctified, and the flatulency of them, which puffs up others
into pride, is corrected; and the same mercies received by prayer, become nourishment
to the saints' graces, that putrefy and turn to noisome lusts in the prayerless
sinner.

         Answer
Third.  God will have his
people pray for what he hath purposed and promised, to show the great
delight he takes in their prayers. 
As a father, though he can send to his son who lives abroad the money he
hath promised for his maintenance, yet let him not have it except he comes over
at set times for it.  And why?  Not to trouble his son, but delight him­self
in his son’s company.  God takes
such content in the company of his praying saints, that to prevent all
strangeness on their part, he orders it so that they cannot neglect a duty but
they shall lose something by it. 
‘Ye have not, because ye ask not.’ 
And the more they abound in prayer the more they shall with bless­ings.  The oftener Joash had ‘smote upon the
ground,’ the fuller his victory over Syria had been.  As the ar­rows of prayer are that we shoot to heaven, so
will the returns of mercy from thence be. 
Yet must it not be imputed to any loathness in God to give, that he
makes them pray often and long before the mercy comes, but rather to the
content he takes in our prayers. 
He doth all this on a design to draw out the graces of his Spirit in his
children, the voice and language of which in prayer makes most sweet melody in
the ear of God.  The truth is, we
are in this too like musicians playing under our window; they play while the
money is thrown out to them, and then their pipes are put up.  And were our wants so supplied by the
answer of one prayer, that we did not suddenly need a new recruit, we would be
gone, and God should not hear of us in haste.

USE OR
APPLICATION.

 

[Reproof to
prayerless souls,

with the dismal state
of such.]

 

         Use
First.  A word to those who
live in the total neglect of this duty, that are prayerless creatures. Such
ruins of mankind there are to be found, who pass their wretched days like so
many swine; they never look up to heaven till God lays them on their back; nor
are heard to cry in prayer till this knife is at their throat.  What shall I say to these giants and
sons of the earth, that have renounced their allegiance to the God of
heaven!—these kine of Bashan, who, like so many metamorphosed Nebuchadnezzars,
have lost the heart of a man, and live like as very brutes, as the beasts
themselves, who, while they feed, take no notice of him that clothes the field
with grass for them!  Can I hope
they will hear man who will not ac­knowledge the God of heaven by praying to
him? Surely your case is deplored. 
What! not pray?  Can you do
less than by this homage to own God for your Maker?  O less for your own souls, than to beg their life of God,
whose hand of justice is lift up against you?  Are you resolved thus to throw yourselves into the devil's
mouth, without so much as striking one stroke for your defence?  If God had required a greater matter at
your hands than this, the salvation of your souls would have deserved it.  And will you stick at this?

         God
does not put us to the cost of laying down the price of our ransom; no, not so
much as to pay our prison fees. Only, he bids thee pray, and he will pay: ‘Your
heart shall live that seek God,’ Ps. 69:32.  O, what salt and vinegar will this pour into thy wounds,
when in hell thy conscience shall fly in thy face, and tell thee thou hadst not
been there if thou wouldst in time have humbled thy soul before God, and sought
his favour in that way which cost Christ his blood to procure.  Either thou must be dispossessed of
this dumb devil, or undoubtedly it will be thy damnation! And who dies with
less pity than that malefactor that stouts it before the judge, and will not so
much as down on his knees, or open his mouth to cry for mercy, though the judge
on purpose stays to pro­nounce the sentence and break up the court, to see
whether his stomach will fall, and his proud spirit stoop to ask his life at
his hands?  You know how angry
Pilate was when Christ was silent: ‘Speakest thou not unto me? knowest thou not
that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to release thee?’ John 19:10, though,
alas! poor creature, as Christ told him, he could do nothing for or against
him; and therefore Christ neither feared him, nor ought him so much service as
to bestow a word upon him.  The
warrant for Christ’s death was sealed in heaven, and he, with the rest of
Christ’s enraged enemies, were but God's servants to do the execution according
to the determinate counsel of God. 
But how much more reason hath the great God to be provoked by this
irreligion, and say, ‘Wilt thou not speak to me? pray to me?  Dost thou not know I have the power to
save or damn? to deliver thee to the tormentor, or keep thee out of his
hands?’  Or, dost thou look that
God is bound to save thee whether pray or not pray? If he doth, I promise you
he shall do more for thee than for others; yea, than for his own Son, who made
strong cries and supplications to be saved by him. God hath laid the method of
salvation and think not that he will alter it, and so make a blot in the
counsel of his will, for thy pleasure. 
What he hath written he hath written, and it shall not be reversed.  Yea, though others should be so kind as
out of pity to thy soul to pray for thee, yet if thou beest thyself a
prayerless creature, thou shalt die the death.  If they were Noah, Samuel, and Daniel, that stood up to beg
thy life they should not be heard for thee.  Proxy prayers in this case will not prevail.  And therefore, when the Israelites came
a begging to Samuel for his prayers—which, good man, he easily promised; in­deed,
durst not have forgot them in that, though they had not remembered him of
it—mark what caveat he annexeth, ‘Only fear the Lord, and serve him in truth
with all your heart,’ I
Sam. 12:24.
As if he had said, ‘Do not set me to do for you {that} which you will not do
for yourselves.’ It is not all the interest my prayers have in heaven {that}
will keep the wrath of God from falling on you, if you be wicked and
atheistical; therefore ‘fear the Lord, and serve him.’ That is, pray and obey
him.

         Fear
oft denotes the worship of God, Gen. 31:53. God is called ‘the fear of Isaac;’ i.e.
the God whom he feared and worshipped. 
So, ‘Who would not fear thee, O King of nations? Jer. 10:7, that is,
worship thee, rather than the stocks and stones; because the worshipping of God
results from our reverence and fear we have of him.  Christ ‘was heard in that he feared him,’ Heb. 5:7—•BÎ J­H ,Û8"$X4"H; that is,
his religious fear, expressed in those his strong cries which he groaned forth
to God in his agony.  And
therefore, so long as you are prayerless, you live without the fear of God.  And what will not such a wretch dare to
do?  Even anything that Satan shall
command him, though it be to go to a wizard.  When Saul had given over inquiring after God, we hear him by
and by knocking at the devil's door, and asking counsel of a witch.  Oh! take heed of living so near the
tempter!  If Satan might have his
wish, surely it would be this—that the creature might live prayerless; for by
this he should do the greatest spite possible to God; in that he makes the
creature set him at nought in all his attributes, and have the greatest
advantage against the sinner himself. 
Now he hath thee as sure as the thief hath the traveller, when he hath
thrown him into a ditch fast bound, and stopped his mouth, that he cannot cry
to others for help.  In a word,
thou art free booty for Satan, who may now satisfy his lust upon thee.  He that prayeth invites God into his
fur­ther acquaintance, and soon shall have it; as we see in Paul, who had
Ananias sent from God to him.  But
he that lives in the neglect of this duty, gives the devil fuller possession of
him.  Thou art the man of all
others most fit for him to make an atheist of.  I should not wonder that the devil persuades thee there is
no God, who already livest in such defiance against him as cannot but make the
belief of a deity dreadful to thy thoughts.  Herod was soon persuaded to cut off John's head, because,
when he was alive, he so troubled and nettled his conscience.  And it is to be feared thou wilt easily
be drawn to attempt the stifling all thoughts of a deity, from whom thy
criminous conscience expects to hear nothing that can please thee.  Yea, it is probable thou hast too much
of the atheist in thee already, or else thou durst not deny God that part of
natural worship which they that know him least give unto him.  I am sure the Scrip­ture lays this brat
of irreligion at the door of atheism, Ps. 14:1: ‘The fool’ there would fain persuade
himself ‘there is no God,’ and when he hath got so far the mastery of his
conscience as to blot God out of his creed, he then soon leaves him out of his
paternoster, ver.
2.

         Question.  But, it may be, some will ask me
whether I think that any do, where the gospel is preached, neglect prayer on
this account of atheism?

         Answer.  Truly I do; and which is more, I think
there are worse atheists to be found under the meridian light of the gospel,
than in the darkest nook in America, where yet this day never broke.  As weeds grow rankest in richest
grounds, and fruits ripest in hottest climates; so do sins grow to the greatest
height where the gospel‑sun climbs highest.  ‘Who is blind, but my servant?...and blind as the Lord’s
servant?’ Isa.
42:19.  Who such atheists as those that have
their eyes put out by the light of the gospel?  The poor Indian’s little knowledge of a God is for want of
light; which may be cured, when it is brought to them.  But if a judiciary atheism—as that in
gospel times and places commonly is—falls upon a soul for rebelling against the
light, this is incurable.  Here the
very visive faculty is perished, and the eye bored out.

 

[Exhortation to
saints to abound in prayer.]

 

         Use
Second.  To the saints.  Be you provoked to ply this oar more
diligently than ever.  If this
be neg­lected, a universal decay of all your graces follows.  When the ports and havens of a kingdom
are blocked up, that the merchant can not go forth, there follows a damp on all
the inland trade, so that an enemy needs not strike a stroke, but only stand
still to see them eat up one another. 
The psalmist tells of a stream which ‘makes glad the city of God,’ Ps. 46:4. The
promise is this stream, upon which the saints have all their livelihood brought
up to their very doors.  If this be
kept open, Satan cannot much distress them; which then is done, when they can
send out their prayers on this stream to heaven.  But if once this trade be stopped, then they are hard put to
it.  It is observed of our
neighbours the Nether­lands, that whereas other nations used to be made poor by
war, they have grown rich with it; because, with their wars, they have enlarged
their trade and traffic abroad. 
And if thou, Christian, wouldst thrive by all thy temptations, thou must
take the same course.  Whatever
thou dost, starve not thy trade with heaven.  God hath—to make thee more diligent in this duty—so ordered
things, that all the treasure of the promise is to be conveyed to thee in this
bottom of prayer.  This is like the
merchant’s ship, it ‘bringeth her food from afar,’ Prov. 31:14.  If thy mer­cies were of the growth of
thy own country, thou mightest spare a voyage to heaven.  But alas! poor creature, when thou art
best laid in, and thy store­house fullest, if no foreign supplies should come
unto thee from heaven, how soon wouldst thou be brought, with the poor widow,
to eat thy last cake and die!  It
was not her little meal in her barrel, nor oil at the bottom of her cruse, but
God’s blessing multiplying them, that make them hold out so long.  So, not thy present grace, strength, or
comfort, but God's feeding these with a new spring, that thou must live upon.
Now cease praying, and the oil of grace will cease running: ‘Ye have not,
because ye ask not.’  And when the
store is spent the city must yield. 
As thou wouldst not therefore fall into Satan’s hands, lose not thy
interest in God, thy best ally, for want of preserving a good correspondence
with him at the throne of grace.

         Now,
for the better pursuit of this exhortation, some counsel would not be amiss in
order to thy driv­ing this trade of prayer more successfully.  Satan hath received so many shameful
overthrows by the saints’ prayers, that he trembles at the force of this great
ordnance of heaven.  This is the
voice, the mighty voice of God in his saints, which shakes those moun­tains of
pride, divides the flames of fiery temptations, and makes them cast forth their
abortive counsels to their shame and disappointment.  ‘O Lord, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into
foolishness,’ II
Sam. 15:31.  This one prayer made both Ahithophel a
fool, and him that set him on work also—defeating the wisdom both of man and
devil. Satan hath such an impression of dread upon him—from the remem­brance of
what he hath suffered from the hands of prayer—that he will turn every stone,
and try every way, to obstruct thee in it.  ‘What do we,’ said the Pharisees concerning Christ, ‘for
this man doeth many miracles?...if we let him thus alone, the Romans shall come
and take away both our place and nation.’ 
Satan cannot deny but great wonders have been wrought by prayer.  As the spirit of prayer goes up, so his
kingdom goes down.  It is of the
royal seed. He can no more stand before it than falling Haman before rising
Mordecai.  And therefore, seeing
this is like to do thee such great service against him, it be­hooves thee the
more to defend it from his strata­gems. 
Because the great artillery of an army is so useful to it, and
formidable to the enemy, therefore it hath a strong guard set about it.

 

 

 

BRANCH THIRD.

 

[Satan’s designs against prayer.]

 

         Now
Satan’s designs against prayer are of three kinds.  First. If he
can, he will keep thee from prayer.  If that be not feasible, Second.
He will strive to interrupt thee in prayer.  And, Third. If
that plot takes not, he will labour to hinder the success and return of thy
prayer.

 

[Satan strives to keep from prayer.]

 

         First Design.  Satan’s first design upon the Christian will be to keep
him from prayer.  To effect
this he wants not his stratagems; many objections that he will start, and
discouragements he will throw in thy way to this duty; hoping that if thou
stumblest not at one, yet he may make thee fall by another, and be sick of thy
enterprise before thou settest upon it. 
And, which is worst, thou wilt find a party in thy own bosom too ready
to listen to what he saith, yea, to take up his arguments and maintain the
dispute against thy engaging in this work.  We shall pick up a few among many, and put an answer into
thy mouth against he comes.

 

Satan keeps from
prayer by charging

the Christian with
hypocrisy.]

 

         First
Stratagem.  ‘What! thou pray!  If thou dost, thou wilt but play the
hypocrite; and better not pray at all, than never the better!’  Nay, possibly thy own misgiving heart
may suggest the same, or at least so far credit his charge, as to make thee
waver in thy thoughts what thou shouldst do—pray or not.  Now, to arm thee against this,
consider,

         1.
Thou art but afraid thou shouldst play the hypocrite, if [you] pray; but
thou wilt certainly prove thyself an atheist if thou dost not.  And that is it which he would
have.  I hope thou art wiser than
to neglect a known duty upon a jealousy thou hast of miscarrying in it; to lie
down in a known sin—yea, so broad a one as brands him for an atheist that
contin­ues in it—for fear of meeting a lion, may be but a bugbear, in the way
of thy obedience to an indispens­able command.

         2.
Thou art in the less danger of playing the hypocrite, because of thy fear.  Some bodily diseases indeed are caught
with a fear and fancy.  He is most
like to have the plague or pox that fears most he shall have them.  But none are so safe from sin as they
that fear the falling into it most. 
The truth is, I would desire no better argument to prove thee sincere
than this—to fear thy hypocrisy. 
Believe it, if this be the great trouble of thy soul, the devil hath
more reason to fear thy sincerity than thou thy hypocrisy.  And in all likelihood this it is that
makes him to scare thee from prayer—because thou scare him so much by thy
praying.  If thou wert a hypocrite,
as he pretends, himself would invite thee to it; yea, make a lane for thee,
rather than that thou shouldst not come to the work; and when thou art risen
from thy knees, he would thank thee for thy pains, because he knows God would
not.  The hypocrite does him more
service than God.  You do not believe,
sure, that the devil was any great enemy to Jezebel's fasting.  Nay, I doubt not but he put it into her
head, that she might thereby mock both God and man.  Her fast was the devil’s feast.  But,

         3.
If thou findest more cause to fear thy playing the hypocrite than I who am a
stranger to thy heart have reason to do—who indeed can know so well how thy own
heart beats as thyself?—I say, if thou fearest this be the sin which is most
likely to make a breach upon thee in thy duty, do as Moses, who slew the Egyptian
to rescue the Israelite—destroy the sin, that thou mayest rescue thy soul
from the neglect of a duty. 
Thou hast a very fair advantage, by the intel­ligence God graciously
gives thee whence thy danger is most likely to come, of falling on thy enemy,
and taking the fuller revenge on him, before thou settest about the work of
prayer.  Get but thy heart into a
hatred of this odious sin, and fixed resolution against it, and, with God’s
blessing, it shall neither be able to hurt thee, nor hinder thy prayer from
finding wel­come with God.

 

[Satan keeps from
prayer by undervaluing

the Christian’s gift
for it.]

 

         Second
Stratagem.  ‘O but,’ saith
Satan, ‘thou hast no gifts for prayer.  Leave that for them that can perform this duty after a
better fashion.’

         What
meanest thou by ‘gifts?’  If a
rowling, flow­ing tongue which some have, whereby they are able on a sudden,
with a long-continued discourse, to run over all the heads of prayer in a clear
method, and clothe every petition with apt and moving expres­sions, we will
suppose thou hast not this gift. 
But, God forbid that want of this should keep thee from praying, or make
thee go the less comfortably to the duty. 
The want of these, show only thou hast not so good a head, but doth not
the least hinder thy heart to be as gracious as theirs. And better of the two,
that the defect should be found in thy head than in thy heart.  Thy invention indeed in prayer by this
will be more barren, but thy heart may be as fruitful over the few broken
disjointed sentences that by piecemeal fall from thee, as theirs with their
eloquent oration.  Thy language
will not be so trim and gaudy but thy soul and spirit may be as sound yea more
upright, than many of those will be found who charm the ears of those that join
with them by the music their words make. 
It is possible a man may have a rotten body under a gorgeous suit; and sub
hâc purpurâ linguæ pannosam conscientiam—under the bravery of language a
poor ragged conscience.  Who had
not rather be the healthful man in plain clothes, than unsound and diseased
under rich apparel?—sincere with mean gifts, rather than rotten-hearted with
raised parts.  We do not count him
the best patriot in the parliament—house that plays the orator, and makes more
rhetorical speeches than others, but he that takes with the best side, and
whose vote is sure not to be wanting to carry on a righteous cause.

         It
is not the rhetoric of the tongue, but the hearty ‘amen’ which the sincere soul
seals every holy request withal, that God values; and this thy honest heart
will help thee to do, which his head cannot do for him that wants this
sincerity. It is not the fairness of the hand that gives the force to the bond,
but the person whose hand and seal it is. 
If it could, a scriv­ener might make all the country his debtors.  Gifts may make a fair writing—which the
hypocrite can do—but faith and sincerity make a valid prayer; and this alone
can lay claim to the good things of the promise.  In a word, sincere soul—for so I take thee to be—and if
such, though thou hast not these praying gifts as others, yet thou hast as much
interest in Christ, the ‘unspeakable gift,’ II Cor. 9:15, as any of them all.  And, for thy everlasting encouragement,
know, it is not those gifts in them, but this gift of God to thee and all
believers, which is the key that must open God's heart, if any mercy be got
thence.  Yea, this gift must
sanctify their glistering gifts, as the altar did the gold upon it, or else
they will be an abomination to the Lord.

 

[Satan keeps from
prayer,

through present
indisposition to it.]

 

         Third
Stratagem.  Satan and the flesh
too have their dil­atory excuses to take thee off this duty, when thy stated
usual time comes about for the perform­ance of it.  Dost thou never, Christian, when thou
art addressing thyself to the throne of grace, hear Satan and thy flesh
whispering in thine ear, ‘Christian, what art thou going to do?  This is not a fit time for thy
praying.  Stay for a more
convenient season.’  Here the devil
seems modest.  He saith not, Pray
not at all, but ‘not now’—not dissolve, but ‘adjourn’ the court
for a fitter time.

         Answer.  Now beware, Christian, thy foot is near
a snare.  If thou takest the
devil’s counsel, and waitest for his convenient season, may be it will prove
like Felix’s ‘convenient season’ for calling Paul to a fur­ther hearing; which,
for aught we find, never came about. 
When the flesh or Satan beg time of thee, it is to steal time from
thee.  They put thee off duty at
one time, on a design to shut thee out at last from this duty at any time.  The devil is a cunning sophist; he
knows a modest beggar may sooner obtain the little he asks, than he that
saucily asks that which carries more unreasonableness in the request.  Jephthah, who yielded to his daughter’s
desire for a few months reprieve, would, it is like, not have heard her had she
begged a full release from her father’s vow.  A gracious soul is under a vow to call upon God.  He knows such a motion would be flung
back with the saint’s abhorrency upon his face, should he at the first dash bid
him never pray more, and wholly leave his acquaintance with God.  Therefore he would seem very willing he
should pray.  ‘Aye! by all means,’
saith he, ‘I would not have you turn your back on your best friend; but now is
not so fit a season.’

 

[Two pleas Satan hath to cheat the

Christians of their
seasons of prayer.]

 

         1.
The Christian’s present indisposition to prayer.  2. Some worldly business that then stays to be despatched.

         1.
Plea.  The Christian’s present
indisposition to pray.  ‘Stay,
Christian,’ saith the tempter, ‘till thou art in a better temper for duty, and
thou wilt pray to more purpose. 
Better not write that scribble—leave the work undone, than go about it
when thy hand is out.’  Now there
is a double indisposition, which both Satan and the flesh make use of to colour
their pretence with.

         (1.)
Indisposition of body.  Some
distemper lies on at present on that, and Scripture, say these, tells thee God
loves mercy rather than sacrifice. 
And it cannot be denied but the Scripture will reach as far as the body,
for God’s commands are not cruel to it.

         Answer.  But, to help thee out of this snare,
tell me plainly, how great is this distemper of thy body? Haply thou art
not so ill but thou canst go about thy worldly business, though with some
groans and complaints in the same. 
But when thou shouldst pray, then thy head aches and shoots more than be­fore.  Art thou well enough to go into thy
shop, and not to pray in thy closet? 
Canst thou waddle so far as to the market, and not pray at home?  Canst thou overcome thy distemper so
far as to traffic with the world, and not to trade with heaven?  Surely all is not right.  God is but little beholden to
thee.  May not God say, I deserve
thy company as well as the world? But, suppose thou beest right-down sick, and
quite laid up from meddling in thy worldly employments; yet, will this excuse
thee from visiting the throne of grace? 
God takes thee out of the shop to show thee the way into the
closet.  He knocks thee off thy
worldly trade, that thou mayest follow thy heavenly the more close.  Thou art not, indeed, able to pray in a
continued discourse as in health. 
Neither doth God expect it. 
Here that Scripture, which the devil would have thee abuse, is pat, and
suitable to thy present state: God loves mercy rather than sacrifice.  Yet now, if ever, is the time for thee
to shoot those jacula præcatoria—darts of ejaculatory prayer to God.
When our body breathes shortest, it breathes quickest and oftenest.  Though thou canst not pray long, yet
thou mayest pray much in these pathetical sallies of thy soul to heaven.  The Christian should have his quiver
full of these arrows, which, though short, go with a force.  Christ never prayed more earnestly than
in his agony; which prayer was of this nature, ‘O my Father, if it be possible,
let this cup pass from me; never­theless, not as I will, but as thou wilt,’ Matt. 26:39. And after
a little pause—for nature to take some breath, by reason of that unspeakable
burden which then lay upon it—he shoots the same dart again to heaven thrice,
one after another, ver.
44.  In a word, Christian, though thou canst
not pray as thou wert wont, yet thou canst desire others to pray for thee and
with thee.  We are bid to send for
the elders, yea and beg prayers of others too.  So pitiful is God to us, that when, through our own
weakness, we are disabled from delivering our own conceptions in prayer, that
then we may bring forth as Bilhah on others’ knees. When we cannot go ourselves
as we were wont to the work, we may be carried on the shoulders of their
prayers, and fly on the wings of their faith to heaven.

         (2.)
Indisposition of heart.  O
but, secondly, thou mayest say, It is not the sickness of thy body, but the deadness
of thy heart, and indisposition of thy soul, that keeps thee from
duty.  Thou wouldst fain have that
in a better frame, and then thou wouldst not be long a stranger to it.

         Answer
(a).  Let me ask thee,
Christian, what thou hast found—in the observation of thy own heart—to be the
fruit that hath grown from such put‑offs and excuses;—hath neglect of duty
at one time fitted thee for it at another?  I believe not. 
Sloth is not cured with sleep, nor laziness with idleness.  If our leg be numb, we walk, and so it
wears off.  Satan knows if thou
playest the truant to‑day thou wilt be more loath to go to school
tomorrow.  Give the flesh a little
scope and liberty by thus unlacing thyself, and it will endure less to be
straitened afterwards.  There is
something to do to bridle a wanton beast, when hath got the bit once out of his
mouth.  The spouse’s coat sat very
easy on her back, and unwilling no doubt she was to be stripped; but when once,
by a wile of Satan, she was persuaded to put it off, how loath was she then to
get it on again!  And therefore,
whenever you are turning from this or any other duty merely upon this account,
consider well what is like to fol­low. 
One of these two will come of it. 
Either thou wilt see thy sin, and return with shame and sorrow for thy
neglect.  And is it not less
trouble to pray now than upon such terms afterwards?  A heathen could say, ‘He would not sin to buy repentance.’  And shouldst not thou have more wisdom
to know which is a bad bargain for thy soul than he?  Or, if not that, it will follow, secondly, that this neglect
will beget an­other, and that a third, and so thou wilt run further in arrears
with thy conscience, till at last thou givest over all thoughts of renewing thy
acquaintance with God because thou hast discontinued it so long.

         Answer
(b).  Examine from whence this
present indisposition comes, and probably thou wilt find rea­son to charge it
either upon some sinful miscarriage in thy Christian course, or on thy
neglect of those preparatory means through which thou art to pass into the
performance of this duty.

         [1.]
See whether thou hast not been tampering with some sin knowingly.  There is an antipathy be­twixt sinning
and praying, partly from guilt, which makes the soul shy of coming into God's
sight, be­cause conscious of a fault. 
The child that hath mis­spent the day in play abroad, steals to bed at
night, or plays least in sight, for fear of a chiding, or worse, from his
father.  And also there is this
antipathy be­tween those two lines of acting, as the same doth roil and
disorder the heart.  Sin and prayer
are such con­traries, that it is impossible at one stride to step from one to
another.  It is an ill time when
the fountain is stopped or muddied, to go to draw water thence.  If the workman’s tools be blunt or
gapped, no work an be well done till a new edge be set on them.  It is the devil's policy thus to
disturb and unfit the Christian for duty that he may leave it undone.  And therefore, let thy first care be to
keep the fountain of thy heart clear all the day long, as remembering that from
it those holy affections which in prayer thou art to pour forth to God must be
drawn.  Look thou lendest not any
power of thy soul to be Satan's instrument in sin’s coarse foul work, lest thou
find it out of case when thou art to use it in this spiritual service.  A good servant will not have her dishes
or pots foul when they should be used, but stand clean and bright upon the
shelf, to be ready against they are called for.  And so is the true Christian characterized.  ‘If a man therefore purge himself from
these, he shall be a ves­sel unto honour, sanctified, and meet for the Master’s
use, and prepared unto every good work,’ II Tim. 2:21.

         But
again, if thou findest guilt to be contracted and thence a fear to come so nigh
God, as this duty will bring thee, yea an estrangement also upon thy heart from
this work, thy best way is to speedily to renew thy repentance, and so thy
faith both for par­doning mercy and purging grace.  New breaches are made up better than long quarrels; green wounds
healed easier than old sores; spots washed out sooner when newly got than when
ingrained by long continu­ance. 
Ply thee to the throne of grace. 
Water the earth, if thou canst, with thy tears, and fill heaven with
sorrowful sighs for thy sin; but by no means shift off the duty on this
pretence; for that is not the way to mend the matter, but make it worse.  Jonah did ill to consult his credit
rather than the exaltation of God’s mercy; and how he should come honourably
off with this embassage, than how the name of the great God his Master that
sent him might be magni­fied.  But
he did worse than these sinful thoughts stirred in him—which he should have
humbled him­self for—made him run away from his Master’s work also.  Thus, Christian, it is ill done of thee
to make a breach in thy holy course by tampering with any sin; but thou wilt
commit a greater if thou turnest thy back on God also in that ordinance where
thou shouldst humble thyself for thy former sin.  Can one sin be a good argument for committing another? Thou
hast fallen into sin in the day; wilt thou not therefore pray at night?  Surely it were better to beg of God
forgiveness of this, and more grace, that thou mayest not do the like or worse
to‑morrow.  Neglect of duty is not
the way to help thee out of the pit thou art in, nor keep thee from falling
into another.  Take heed thou
runnest not thyself further into temp­tation.  Now is the time for the devil to set upon thee, when this
weapon is out of thy hand.  The
best thou canst look for is a storm from God to bring back thee, his runaway
servant, to thy work again.  And
the sooner it comes, the more merciful he is to thee.

         [2.]
If, upon thy faithful inquiry, thou findest not thy heart reproach thee to have
indisposed thyself for duty by any known sin in the course of thy life, and yet
thy heart continues lumpish and unfit for prayer, then probably thou wilt take
thyself tardy in thy actual preparation to the duty.  Hast thou there­fore solemnly
endeavoured, by suitable meditations, to blow the coal of thy habitual grace?
which though not quenched by any gross sin, yet may be deadened, and covered
with some ashes, by thy being over‑busy in thy worldly employments.  The well is seldom so full that water
will, at first pumping, flow forth. Neither is the heart commonly so spiritual
after our best care in our worldly converse—much less when we somewhat overdo
therein—to pour itself into God’s bosom freely, without some labour to raise
and elevate it. Yea, oft the springs of grace lie so low, that only pumping
will not fetch the heart up to a praying frame, but arguments must be poured
into the soul —like so many pails of water into the pump—before the affections
rise.  Hence are those soliloquies
and discourses, which we find holy men use with their own hearts to bring them
into a gracious temper, suitable for communion with God in ordinances. ‘Bless
the Lord, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy name.  Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget
not all his benefits,’ Ps.
103:1, 2.  It seems David either found or feared
his heart would not be in so good a frame as he desired, that he redoubles his
charge.  He found sure his heart
somewhat drowsy, which made him thus rub his eyes, and rouse up him­self, now
going to God in this duty.  Sometimes
call­ing and exciting the heart will not do, but the heart must be chid, and
taken up roundly.  So David was
fain to deal with himself at another time.  ‘Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou
disquieted within me?’ Ps.
42:11.  Heavy birds must take a run before they
can get upon the wing.  It is
harder to get a great bell up, than to ring it when it is raised.  And so it is with our hearts.  Harder work we shall find it to prepare
them for duty, than to perform it when they are got into some order.  Now, hast thou endeavoured this?  If not, how canst thou make this a
pretence to waive the duty because thou art indis­posed, when thou hast not
used the means to have thy clog taken off?  This is as if one should excuse himself for not coming to
the feast unto which he was invited, because forsooth he was not dressed, when
indeed he never went about to make ready. 
But if thou canst answer to the former question, and in some uprightness
say that thou hast not neglected preparatory means, but yet thy indisposition
and deadness of heart remains, then we present you with another
consideration.  Though it be not so
ordinary, yet it is possible, that a Christian may walk on those coals of
meditation, which at one time would set his soul all on fire, and put his
graces into a flame, yet at another he may find little warmth from them.  We will suppose this to be thy
case.  Therefore,

         Answer
(c).  Consider that God may,
and doth, some­times conceal his enlivening presence, till the soul be
engaged in the work.  And would
it not grieve thee to lose such an opportunity?  How oft hast thou found thyself at the entrance into a duty
becalmed, as a ship which at first setting sail hath hardly wind to swell its
sails—while under the shore and shadow of the trees—but meets a fresh gale of
wind when got into the open sea? 
Yea, didst thou never launch out to duty as the apostles to sea, with
the wind on thy teeth, as if the Spirit of God, instead of helping thee on, meant
to drive thee back, and yet hast found Christ walking to thee before the duty
was done, and a prosperous voyage made of it at last?  Abraham saw not the ram which God had provided for his
sacrifice till he was in the mount.

         In
the mount of prayer God is seen; even when the Christian does oft go up the
hill towards duty with a heavy heart, because he can as yet have no sight of
him.  Turn not therefore back; but
on with courage. He may be nearer than thou thinkest on.  ‘In that same hour,’ saith Christ, ‘it
shall be give unto you,’ Matt.
10:19.  ‘In the day,’ said David, ‘when I cried
thou answeredst me, and strengthenedst me with strength in my soul,’ Ps. 138:3.  It is no more than the promise gives us
security for: ‘The way of the Lord is strength.’  Just as it is with a man, who at first going out on a
journey feels a lassitude and feebleness in his limbs; but the farther he goes,
the more strength he gathers, as if there arose strength out of the ground he
walks on.  Truly the saints find
this in God’s way: ‘I have remembered thy name, O Lord, in the night, and have
kept thy law.  This I had, because
I kept thy precepts,’ Ps.
119:55, 56.  His meaning is, by doing his best
endeavour to keep them, he got this by the hand, to be able to keep them
better, and he thinks himself so well paid in for this his pains, that he
glories in it—‘This I had.’  So the
saint hath this for praying —he gets his heart in tune to pray better.

         We
may observe those children in Scripture which came of barren wombs were the
greatest com­forts to their parents when they had them.  Witness Isaac, Samuel, and John.  The greater deadness and barrenness thy
heart, to thy own sense, lay under, and the less hope thou hadst to get out of
the indis­position, the more joyful will the quickening presence of God be to
thee.  The assistance that thus
surpri­seth thee beyond thy expectation will be a true Isaac —a child of joy
and laughter.  And a double reason
is obvious why God doth thus.  You
see it in the great delight the Lord takes in pure obedience.  ‘To obey is better than sacrifice,’ I Sam. 15:22.  To pray in obedi­ence is better than
barely to pray.  This is the jewel
in the ring of prayer.  Now, to
pray in pure obedience is to set upon the duty when there is no assistance visi­ble
or encouragement sensible—to go to duty not be­cause God puts forth his hand to
lead me, but be­cause he holds forth his precept to command me.  As when a general commands his army to
march, if then the soldiers should stand upon terms, and refuse to go except
they have better clothes, their pay in hand, or the like, and then they will
march; this would not show them an obedient disciplined army.  But if, at the reading of their orders,
they presently break up their quarters, and set forth, though it be midnight
when the command come, and they without money in their purse, clothes on their
back—leaving the whole care of themselves for these things to their general,
and they only attend how they may best fulfil his command—these may be said to
march in obedience. Thus, when a soul, after a faithful use of means, finds his
heart dead and dull, yet in obedience to the com­mand kneels down—though the
sense of his inability is so great that he questions whether he shall have
power to speak one word to God as he ought, yet had rather be dumb and dutiful,
than disobedient in run­ning away from his charge —here is an obedient soul,
and he may hope to meet God in his way with that which he cannot carry with
him—as the lepers, who, when they went, in obedience to Christ’s command, to
‘show themselves to the priest,’ were cured by the way, though they saw nothing
of it when they set forth.

         Another
fetch that Satan hath to make the Christian put off the duty of prayer as
unseasonable at present, is—

         2.
Plea.  Some worldly
business or other that then is to be despatched; and therefore suggests
such thoughts as these to divert him:—‘I have no leisure now to pray; this
business is to be done, and that ne­cessary occasion calls for my
attendance.  I will there­fore
adjourn the performance till I can come with more freedom and leisure.’

         Now
to arm thee, Christian, against such dila­tory pretences, I shall lay down a
few directions.

 

[Five Directions to preserve against

interference with
seasons of prayer.]

 

         (1.)
Take heed of overcharging thyself with worldly business, which then is
done when thou graspest more thereof than will consist with thy heavenly trade
and Christian calling.  God allows
thee to give to the world that which is the world’s, but he will not suffer
thee to pay the world that which is due to him; rob Mary to lend to Martha,
steal from thy closet to pay to thy kitchen.  Thy particular calling is intended by God to be a help to
thy general.  It will therefore be
thy sin to make that an encumbrance which is given as an advantage.  And that which is itself a sin cannot
be a plea for the neglect of a duty. that servant would mend a matter but
little, who excuseth his not doing a business his master com­manded, by telling
him he had drunk too much when he should have gone about it.  Nor will thy apology for passing thy
time of prayer be better, that sayest thou hadst so much to do in the world
that thou couldst not find time to pray in.

         (2.)
Labour to time thy seasons for prayer with discretion in the things of the
world.  If we have two
businesses to despatch in the same day, we contrive, if possible, that they may
not interfere.  And certainly a
holy providence to forecast how we may reconcile daily the demands of our
closet and shop, our devo­tions and worldly employments, by laying out each its
portion of time, would ordinarily prevent much dis­order and confusion in our
walking.  The prophet speaks of
‘the liberal man devising liberal things.’  We could not easily want time to pray in, if our hearts
would but persuade our heads to devise and study how our other affairs might be
disposed of without prejudice to our devotions.  That cloth which a bung­ler thinks too little for a garment,
a good workman can make one of it, and leave some for another use also.  O there is a great deal of art in
cutting out time with little loss.

         (3.)
Be sure thou keepest a right notion of prayer in thy thoughts.  Some look upon every minute of time
spent in the closet lost in the shop. 
And no wonder such are easily kept from prayer upon any pretended
business, who think it a prejudice to their other affairs.  But I hope, Christian, thou art better
taught.  Does the husbandman mow
the less for whet­ting his scythe? 
Doth a good grace before meat spoil the dinner? No.  Nor doth prayer hinder the Chris­tian
either in his employments or enjoyments, but expedites the one and sanctifies
the other.  All agree that to the
despatch of a business—as to the winding of a skein of silk—nothing conduceth
more than to begin at the right end of it.  And to be sure the right end of any business is to begin
with God, and engage him to help us. 
‘In all thy ways acknowledge God,’ and ‘lean not unto thine own
understanding,’ Prov.
3:5, 6.

         (4.)
The more straits and difficulties thou conquerest to keep up thy communion
with God, the more kindly it is taken of God.  No more friend is more welcome to us than he who breaks
through many occasions to give us a visit.  There is little cost, and so little love, in an idle man's
visit—he that comes to see us because he hath nothing else to do. Mary was
Christ’s favourite, who trode the world under her feet, that she might sit at
his feet.  And the Bethshemites,
who in their zeal—I confess their case is extraordinary—came out of their very
harvest-field, when they were reaping, to offer a sacrifice to the Lord, I Sam. 6:13.

         (5.)
Be faithful and impartial in considering the importance and necessity of
that business which is propounded as an apology for not performing this duty at
thy usual season.  It cannot be
denied but such a necessary occasion may emerge and fall out, for which the
Christian may, without sin, adjourn the solemn performance of his devotions to
another more fit time.  Who doubts
but a Christian may, when he riseth, go to quench his neighbour’s house on
fire, though by this he be kept out of his closet, and de­tained from offering
to God that solemn morning sac­rifice of praise and prayer he was wont?  Yea, though the occasion be not
extraordinary, if it be,

         (a)
About that which is lawful in itself.

         (b)
Of importance.

         (c)
Necessarily then to be despatched. 
And,

         (d)
If it surpriseth us, and we do not bring it upon ourselves by our own
fault, then the duty of prayer may without sin be adjourned for a fitter time.

         But
let us take heed of stamping a pretended necessity on things and actions, only
to gratify our lazy hearts with a handsome excuse, whereby we may both save the
pains of performing a duty, and also es­cape a chiding from our conscience for
the non-performance of it.  Of all
fools he is the worst, that is witty to put a cheat on himself, and especially
on his soul.  Such a one must
expect that the less his con­science barks at present, the more it will bite
when it shall be unmuzzled.

         Again,
if the occasion be, as is said, important and necessary, whereby thou art called
off from the solemn performance of this duty at present, then lift up thy
heart in an ejaculatory prayer to God, to guide and guard thee.  This is the short dagger thou art to
use for thy defence against temptation, when thou hast not time to draw the long
sword of solemn prayer.  Thus thou
mayst pray in any place, company, or employment.  A short parenthesis interrupts not the sense of discourse,
but gives an elegancy to it. And a short ejaculation to heaven will not
interrupt any business thou art about, but advantage it much.

         Again,
be careful to recover this loss which thy worldly business hath put thee to in
thy communion with God, by more abounding in the duty upon thy next
opportunity.  The tradesman who
is kept from his dinner on the market-day, goes the sooner to his supper, and
eats the freer meal at night.  If
you be hindered of your rest one night by business, you will take it up the
next.  O that we were as wise for
our souls—what we are prevented of at one tie, to recover with advantage at another,
by a double enlargement of our hearts in our prayers and meditations!

 

[Satan discourages
from prayer because

of the greatness of the requests.]

 

         Fourth
Stratagem.  Satan discourages
sometimes the Christian, when on his way to this duty, from the greatness of
those requests which he hath to put up to the throne of grace.  Thou art going to pray, Chris­tian,
will he say, and will nothing serve thee less than pardon of sin, love and
favour of God, with eternal life, &c.?  Surely thou art too free of another’s purse, and too kind to
thyself, if thou thinkest to be wel­come at God’s door with so bold an
errand.  This is a boon reserved
for some few favourites, and darest thou think so well of thyself that thou art
one of them?

         Now
to arm thee, Christian, against this, that thou mayest neither be kept from the
duty, nor go misgivingly to it upon this account, the greatness of thy request,
ponder upon these five considerations, which will amount to a full answer to
this cavil.  1. Oppose the
greatness of that God thou art going to make thy address unto, against the
greatness of thy request.  2.
Oppose the promise to thy fears. 
3. The valuable consideration on which they are made.  4. The greatness of the request cannot
hinder, because they are most welcome that ask most.  5. God exceeds his people’s asking.

 

[Fivefold answer to
Satan's discouragement to

prayer from the
greatness of the request.]

 

         Answer
1.  Oppose the greatness of
that God thou art going to make thy address unto, against the greatness of
thy request.  We are bid to
‘ascribe greatness to our God,’ Deut. 32:3. 
And if ever, espe­cially when kneeling down to pray.  Wert thou to put up thy request to some
puny prince, or petty creature, thou hadst reason to consider whether thy
pitcher were not too great that thou wouldst have filled. Possibly thou mayest
ask such a one more at one clap than he is worth.  ‘Help, my lord, O king,’ said the woman in the famine of
Samaria, yet she had no relief: ‘If the Lord do not help thee, whence shall I
help thee?’ II
Kings 6:26, 27.  Or possibly, if he hath power, he may
want a heart to part with so much as will serve thy turn.  There are many of Nabal’s name in the
world—such churls, who think every bit of bread lost that they eat not
themselves; yea, some who grudge their own belly its necessary food.  Wert thou at the door of such as those,
what couldst thou expect but cold welcome?  But remember he is a great God, great in power.  Thou canst not overask.  Thou mayest draw thine arrow to the
head, and yet not overshoot the power of God.  Even when thou hast drawn thy desires to the highest pitch,
he shall be above thee; ‘for he is able to do exceedingly above what we can ask
or think.’

         Wouldst
thou have thy sins pardoned? 
Yes, if they were not too great, thou sayest.  But can God at once discount such a sum, and discharge so
vast a debt, that hath been gathering many years by a full trade of constant
sinning, with so great a stock of means and mercies as I have had; and thereby
the unhappy advantage of making the greater return? Yes, he is able ‘abundantly
to pardon,’ without any wrong to himself or control from any other.  The sovereign power of life and death
being in his hands, he is ac­countable to none;—as not for acts of justice, so
neither of mercy.  ‘It is God that
justifieth; who is he that condemneth? Rom. 8:33, 34.  If, indeed, a man forgive a wrong done unto him, thou canst
not think thyself therefore acquitted by God; his wrath may still chide on
thee.  Man cannot give away God’s
right. Were a man so kind as to forgive a thief that robbed him, yet it is not
in his power to discharge him of the penalty of the law.  But if the prince, who is the lawgiver,
will do it, none can gainsay.  If
God will pass an act of mercy, thou art free indeed; for the power lies in his
hands.

         Is
it any masterly lust, from whose tyranny thou wouldst beg
deliverance?  The God thou prayest
to is able to break open thy prison door, and make thee, a poor captive, go out
free.  He can give these thine enemies
as dust to thy sword, and as driven stubble to thy bow; yea, destroy them with
a cast of his eye: ‘The Lord looked unto the Egyptians...and troubled their
host,’ Ex.
14:24.  His very look was as heavy as a mill­stone
about their necks.  Presently they
sank, horse and rider, like lead to the bottom of the sea.  And sin and Satan are no more before
God than were Pharaoh and his host.

         In
a word, is it comfort thou wouldst ask if it might be had?  O, know he is a Creator thou prayest
to!  Though thy heart were as void
of comfort as the chaos was of light, yet can he with a word cause a new heaven
of joy to arise out of thy confused soul, and make in one moment to step out of
darkness into light.  Neither is his
mercy less than his power.  O,
launch therefore into this bankless, bottomless sea, by thy faith!  Behold the wonders of God in these
depths, and do not stand reasoning thyself into un­belief by any uncomely
comparisons between God and the narrow-hearted creature.  ‘He is God and not man.’  None of these defects are to be found
in his mercy which we impotent creatures find in ourselves. The paleness we see
sometimes is not in the sun, but from the clouds that interpose.  The stars do not blink nor twinkle, as
is thought; but we—because of their vast distance, and our weak organ—cannot be­hold
them with a fixed eye.  Nor have
the jealousies and fears entertained by tempted souls, to the dispar­agement of
the mercy of God, any foundation in the divine nature, but are mere entia
rationis—bugbears, which, through the darkness of their troubled spirits,
and distemperature of a melancholy fancy, Satan hath the advantage of
affrighting them with.  O, beware
therefore thou dost not disfigure the sweet lovely face of God’s mercy—which
smile alike upon every poor, penitent, praying soul—while thou fanciest God to
have a cast of this his eye, and to look more favour­ably upon one than
another, lest by this you do betray the glorious name of God to be rent in
pieces by your cruel unbelief!  If
you once come to wrap up God in your hard thoughts as slow to hear—hard to be
wrought on with your prayers and tears; truly then Satan may easily persuade
you to commit any sin against him, because you expect no mercy from him.

         Answer
2.  Oppose the promise
to thy fears.  There is no mercy
thou canst desire but is promised beforehand unto the prayer of faith.  The mercy thou wouldst have is already
voted in heaven, and the grant passed; only God stays for thy coming over to
the throne of grace, there to lay thy claim to the promise before he issueth it
forth.  The mercy lies in the womb
of the promise, but stays for thy prayer of faith to obstetricate, and give it
a fair deliverance.  ‘The children
are come to the birth,’ said Hezekiah—the promise is big—wherefore lift up thy
prayer for the remnant that is left, Isa. 37.  That is, if anything will help, it must be that.  What can a petitioner desire more in
his address to a prince for some great favour, than to be assured not only a
prince is of a gracious merciful nature, but also that he hath obliged himself
to give that which he hath in his thoughts to desire? And shall only the
promises of God be counted light and little worth?  Have you not heard of such a promise: ‘Ask, that your joy
may be full?’  Did ever a vain word
drop from the lips of truth?  Doth
he make an order one day, and reverse it another?  Are his words yea and nay? and not rather ‘yea and amen’ for
ever? II
Cor. 1:20.  Beggars use to be quick-sighted.
Benhadad’s servants saw light at a little hole; and gathered from a few kind
words which dropped from Ahab’s mouth, that there was mercy raked up in his
heart towards their master, which they soon blew up. Joab saw David’s bowels
working towards Absalom through the casement of his countenance, and there­fore
lets down the widow’s parable as a bucket to draw out that mercy which lay in
his heart like water in a deep well. 
How much more encouragement hast thou, Christian, to plead with thy God,
who art not put to guess at God’s thoughts, but hast the assurance of plain
promises for thy good speed?

         O
what fools, and how slow of heart are we to believe the good word of God!  If Moses supposed his brethren would
have understood, by the kind visit he gave them, and his friendly office in
rescuing one single Israelite from his oppressor’s hand, that God would by him
deliver them all; how much more may God expect that his people should
understand his purposes of love towards them, when he exposeth his heart to so
open a view of their faith by his promise, and hath sealed the truth thereof
with so many ex­amples to whom already full payment hath been made of the
same?  And do we yet read them, as
once the eunuch that sweet promise, Isa. 53, and under­stand not the meaning of
them?  Do we yet sit so near our
comfort, as Hagar by the well, and our eyes held not to see it?  Can we yet walk over the promises as
barren ground, when, with a little digging into them, we might find a treasure
to pay all our debts and supply all our wants?

         Answer
3.  Oppose to thy fears not
only the greatness of the promises, but also the valuable con­sideration
upon which they are made. 
Christ pays for what thou prayest. 
Thou, indeed, beggest alms, but Christ demands that same as debt.  God is merciful to thee, but just to
him.  And therefore, Christian,
though it becomes thee to sink thyself beneath the least mercy in thy own
thoughts, yet it behooves thee to be tender of Christ’s credit, whose merit is
far above the greatest mercy thou canst beg as thou art beneath the least.  The Father will give you little thanks
for casting any dishonourable reflection upon his Son, on whom himself hath
heaped so much glory; yea, with whose honour his own is so inter­woven, that
whoever dishonours the Son dishonours the Father that sent him.  Now there are three privi­leges
purchased for every believer; and none of them can be lost by us without
dishonour to him.

         (1.)
He hath purchased a liberty to pray.  It had been death to come on such an errand to God till he
had by his blood paved a way and procured a safe conduct, Heb. 10:17.

         (2.)
An ability to pray as he purchased the Spirit for us; called therefore
‘the Spirit of promise.’

         (3.)
The safe return of our prayers. 
‘Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you,’ John 16:23.  Indeed, it is his business now in
heaven to own our cause there in open court, and to present his blood as ready
money to be laid down for all his saints beg, that no demur be made to their
requests.  So that, either thou must
blot this article of Christ's intercession out of thy creed, or else put
thyself to shame for questioning thy entertainment with God when thou hast so
good a friend at court to speak for thee.

         Answer
4.  The greatness of thy
request cannot hinder thy speeding, because thou art most welcome that ask
most.  Who are the persons
frowned on at the throne of grace but those who lay out the strength of their
desires, and bestow their greatest importunity for mercies of least weight and
worth?  ‘And they have not cried
unto me with their heart, when they howled upon their beds,’ Hosea 7:14.  Mark! the Lord did not account that
they had prayed at all for all their loud cry; and why? but because he
disdained their low and drossy spirit in crying loudest for that which they
deserved least, as the following words will resolve us, ‘They assemble
themselves for corn and wine, and they rebel against me,’ they would have a
good crop with a full vintage; and these scraps should serve them, so as not to
trouble God for any more.  God, his
love and favour, are quite left out of the story. May they but have their
bellies crammed they have all their wish, and leave the other for those that
like them better.  O how God abhors
these prostrate souls and carnal prayers! 
When men ‘tithe mint and cummin’ in their prayers, but neglect the
weightier things of the promises, such are an interest in Christ, forgiveness
of sin, a new heart, grace here and glory hereafter!  Or, when they aim at low and base ends in praying for these
things that in themselves are noble and high!  And therefore fear not the greatness of thy request.  God had rather give thee heaven than
earth. He can more willingly bestow himself on thee that art in love with him,
than a crust of bread on another that regards him not.  The greater the mercy is thou askest,
the greater the rent and revenue wilt thou pay him for it.  The less he gives the less he receives.  By low requests thou wrongest two at
once.  Thou art a thief to thyself,
in wanting what thou mayest have for asking—in bringing a little vessel when
thou mightest have a great one filled. 
Neither art thou so good a friend to thy God as thou shouldst; for the
less grace thou hast from him, the less glory thou wilt return unto him.  The reflex beams are proportionable to
the lightsome body they come from. 
When grace is weak, the reflection it makes of praise and glory to God
can be but weak and dark.

         Answer
5.  God is so free and
redundant in com­municating his mercy, that he exceeds his people’s modesty
in asking.  He gives them
commonly their prayers with an overplus more than they have faith or face to
ask; as Naaman, when Gehazi asked one tal­ent, would need force two upon
him.  Abraham asked a child of God
when he wanted an heir in whom he might live when dead.  Now God promises him a son, and more
than so, a numerous offspring; yea, more still, such an offspring, that in his
offspring ‘all the nations of the earth shall be blessed.’  Jacob, he de­sired but God’s pass,
under the protection of which he might go and return safely, with food and
raiment enough to keep him alive, Gen. 28:20.  Well, this he shall have.  But God thinks it not enough; and there­fore sends him home
with two bands, who went out a poor fugitive with little besides his pilgrim’s
staff. Solomon prays for wisdom, and God throws in wealth and honour, II Chr. 1:10.  The woman of Canaan begs a crumb—as
much as we would cast to a dog—and Christ gives her a child’s portion.  She came to have her sick child made
well, and with it she hath the life of her own soul given her.  Yea, Christ puts the key of his trea­sure
into her own hand, and leaves her as it were to serve her­self: ‘Be it unto
thee even as thou wilt,’ Matt.
15:28.

 

[Satan strives to interrupt from prayer.]

 

         Second Design.  A second design Satan hath against the Christian is, to interrupt
him in the act of prayer, when he can by no means keep him from it.  It is hard to steal a prayer and the
devil not know what thou art going about. 
He watches thy motions, Christian, and is at thy heels wherever thou
turnest. If thou art about any evil action, he is at thy elbow to jog thee on,
or before thee to remove every stone out of the way, that the bowl may go the
more smoothly on, and thou mayest not be sick of the enterprise by the rubs thou
meetest in the way.  Ahab had but a
plot hatching in his thoughts of going up to Ramoth-Gilead, and presently Satan
hath his knights of the post whom he sends to bid him go up and prosper. David
himself had but some proud thoughts stirring him up to number the people; Satan
takes the advan­tage, and works with the humour now moving, where­by it soon
ripened into that sore which God lanced with so sharp a judgement as the loss
of seventy thousand men.  Now he is
as skilful and ready at hand to disturb a holy action as to promote a wicked.

         When
the sons of God some to present them­selves before the Lord, Satan forgets not
to be among them.  He is no
recusant, scruples not to be present when you worship God; indeed he is first
there and last thence.  Sometimes
thou shalt find him injecting motions of his own, sometimes wire-drawing thy
own. When he sees a vain thought, a sin sprung by thy wanton fancy, he will
help thee to pursue the chase. To be sure, he will be at one end of every
inordinate motion of thy heart; either the father to beget, or the nurse to
bring them up.  These are so many
and di­verse, that we may as well tell the atoms we see in a sunbeam, as number
and sort this miscellaneous heap of roving thoughts which are incident to the
Christian in prayer.  Sometimes he
will inject such as are sinful, proud, filthy, yea blasphemous thoughts.  Not that he hopes to find entertainment
in the Christian’s heart for such guests—much less to make a settlement of them
there with the gracious soul’s consent; but to make a hurly-burly and confusion
in his spirit, whereby—as upon some sudden scare in our assemb­lies—the holy
exercise he is now about may be hin­dered.  Sometimes he will prompt thoughts holy in themselves but
impertinent, which, at another time, himself would oppose with all his might,
but now presents them, because most likely to find welcome, and fit enough to
serve his present purpose, being, though good fruit, yet brought forth in a bad
season. I believe none that have any acquaintance with this duty, and their
hearts in it, are altogether strangers to Satan’s slights of this nature.  Now he hath a double plot; one levelled
against God himself, another against the Christian thereby.

 

[The double plot of
Satan in interrupting prayer.]

 

         First
Plot.  In interrupting prayer
Satan hath a plot against God. 
The devil knows very well that not the least part of his tribute of
honour is paid by the Christian upon his knees in this solemn act of divine
worship, to intercept which is both his great ambition and endeavour.  Nay, he despairs not—if his design
takes—to make the Christian dishonour him most, where God looks his name should
be above all sancti­fied.  Indeed,
those have the unhappy opportunity of casting the greatest indignities on God
who are admit­ted to stand nearest to him.  Should he who hath the honour to set the crown on his
prince’s head, bring it in a filthy case, and so clap it on—or, instead of the
king’s own royal crown bring some ridiculous one of straw, or such like stuff
contrived on purpose to make laughter—what greater scorn could such a one pos­sibly
invent to throw upon his prince? 
The attributes of God are his royal diadem, and it is no small hon­our
that the great God puts upon the Christian, by admitting him as it were to set
this crown upon his head, which he doth when in prayer he gives him the glory
of his majesty and holiness, power and mercy, truth and faithfulness, &c.,
with such humble adoration, and holy ravishment of affection, as may comport
with the indefinite perfections of his deity.

         But
if our present thoughts in prayer be not of God, or not suitable to God and
these his glorious excellencies, we pollute his name, and not honour it. We
mock him, not worship him.  In a
word, we pull off his crown as much as in us lies, rather than set it on.  Now doth not thy heart tremble,
Christian, in thy bosom, to think thou should be Satan's instrument to offer
such an indignity as this unto thy God and King?  Thou art, if a saint, the temple of the Holy Ghost; prayer,
the spiritual sacrifice which from the altar of a humble heart thou art to
offer; wilt thou now suffer Satan to sit in this temple of God, and exalt
himself there—by any vain, much less vile, thoughts—above God himself, whom
thou art wor­shipping?  Suppose,
while a prince is at dinner, a company of impudent ruffians should rush into
the room through the negligence of the prince’s servants that are waiting on
him, and they should throw the dishes, one this way, another that way, would
not these servants deserve a severe rebuke that looked no better to the
door?  Ordinances of worship are
God’s table, the sacrifices under the law called God’s food and bread.  When the saint is praying the King of
heaven sits at his table, Song
1:12.  The dishes served up are the graces of
his Spirit in the saint.  Now wan­dering
thoughts, they come in and turn the table as it were upside down; they spill
the spikenard which thou wouldst pour forth.  How ill may thy God take it that thou lookest no better to
the door of thy heart!

         Second
Plot.  In interrupting prayer
Satan hath a plot against thee, Christian.

         1.
If he can get thee to sport with these, or sluggishly yield to them without
making any vigourous resistance, that prayer, he knows, will neither do him
hurt nor thyself good.  Dost
[thou] think God will welcome that prayer to heaven which hath not thy heart to
bear it company thither?  And how
can thy heart go with it when thou hast sent it another way? It were a vain
thing to expect that ship should make a prosperous voyage which is set adrift
to sea to be carried whither every wave it meets will drive it, with­out any
pilot to steer it to a certain haven, or such a one that hath no skill or care
to hold the helm with a steady hand. 
Such are the prayers that come from a roving heart.  Will God hear thee when thou mockest
him?  And if this be not to mock
him, what is?  Like children that
give a knock at a door and then run away to their play again, thus thou rearest
up thy voice to God, and then art gone in thy roving thoughts to hold chat with
the world or worse, forgetting whom thou spakest last to.  Is not this to play bo‑peep with
God?  Magnam injuriam Deo facio,
cum precor, ut meas preces exaudiat, quas ego qui fundo, non exaudio; deprecor
illum, ut mihi intendat, ego vero, nec mihi, nec mihi, intendo.  Thus the holy man complains of himself
how injurious and un­worthy of God his carriage was in prayer—‘I would have
God,’ saith he, ‘hear my prayer which myself doth not, when I put it up; I
would have God’s ear attentive to me, when I neither mind God nor myself when I
pray.’

         2.
He disturbs thee in praying, that he may make thee weary of praying.  Indeed, he is not likely to miss his
mark if thou lettest these vermin go on to breed in thy heart; for these will
rob thee of the sweetness of the duty; and when the marrow is once out, thou
wilt easily be persuaded to throw the bone away.  Omnis vita gustu ducitur—he is in danger to forsake
his meat who hath lost his relish of it. 
Prayer is a tedious work to him that hath no pleasure in performing of
it; and weariness in it stands next door to being weary of it.

         3.
Thou provokest the Spirit of God—that alone can carry you through the work—to withdraw
his assistance.  Who will help
him that minds not what he does? 
You know what Joab said to David when he indulged his inordinate passion
for the loss of Absalom, ‘If thou go not forth, there will not tarry one with
thee this night: and that will be worse unto thee than all the evil that befell
thee,’ II
Sam. 19:7.
Truly, either thou must speedily rouse thyself out of thy sloth and
non-attendance, or else the Spirit will be gone; and he departed, it will be
worse with thee than ever.  Who
hast thou then to help thee in thy work? 
And thou wilt find it harder to bring him back, than to keep him from
going.  The necessary infirm­ities
which cleave to thy imperfect state, if protested against, shall not drive him
away; but if thou lettest them nestle in thy heart, he takes it as thy giving
him warning to be gone.  An affront
done to an ambassa­dor by the baser sort of people as he walks in the
street—while resident in a foreign state—may be passed over; but when such
shall find countenance from the prince, it then makes a breach.  Take heed, therefore, of showing favour
to such disturbers of the league betwixt God and thy soul.  Thy heart, which should be a house of
prayer, Christ will not endure to have it a place of merchandise.  Either thou must whip these buyers and
sellers out, or the Spirit will go. 
We read of an ‘abomination of desolation standing in the holy place,’ Matt. 24:15, which some
interpret to be the Roman ensigns there displayed when Jerusalem was
taken.  This abomination ush­ered
desolation.  What dost thou, by thy
roving thoughts, but set up an abomination in the temple of thy heart?  O! down with these, as thou wouldst not
be left desolate, and wholly void of God’s gracious presence with thee.

         Question.  But, it may be, now you will ask, ‘What
counsel can you give to arm us against both these incursions of Satan and bubblings
of our own vain hearts in prayer? 
How can we keep either our hearts in, or these out?’

         {Answer.}
Impossible, indeed, it may be wholly to prevent them, they come so suddenly and
secretly —even as lightning in at the window.  We may as well keep the wind out of our house—which gets in
at every crevice, though the doors be shut—as wholly free our hearts from their
disturbance.  Yet this will not
disoblige us from our utmost care and endeavour to hinder the prevalency of
them.  Humours, while rouling here
and there, do not endanger us so much as when they gather to a head, and settle
in some joint and part of the body. 
I have read of some eastern parts of the world, where such multitudes of
locusts and caterpillars are seen, that they almost darken the air as they fly,
and devour every green thing where they light.  The inhabitants, therefore, when they perceive this army
hovering over them, by making fires in their fields, keep them from lighting
with the smoke that ascends therefrom. 
Thou canst not hinder these roving thoughts from flying now and then
over thy head, but surely thou mayest do some­thing that may prevent their
settling.  Towards which good work
take these directions, which I shall endea­vour to suit to these several causes
from whence they proceed.  The
wanderings in prayer may be referred to four causes.  First. The natural vanity and levity of our
minds.  Second. A dead and
inactive heart in him that prayeth. 
Third. Encumbrance of worldly cares. Fourth. Non‑observance
of the heart in the act of prayer.

 

[Four causes of
wandering thoughts in prayer.]

 

         First
Cause.  The first cause, and
indeed original of all other, is the natural vanity and levity of our minds,
which are as inconsistent as quicksilver, that hath, they say, principium
motus, sed non quietis —the principle of motion, but not of rest.  They are as unstable as water, which
fluid element—as we see in a little of it poured on the ground—diffuseth itself
hither and thither, and so is soon drunk up and lost. Thus do our vain minds
scatter themselves into im­pertinencies; but never so much as when we are con­versant
about spiritual duties.  Then,
above all, we discover the lightness of our spirits.  And this is not the least part of that evil which followed man’s
de­generacy, who by his fall wounded both head and heart.  Now, though there be a cure in part
made by the grace of God as to both these in a saint, yet there still remains a
craze in his soul, whereby he is not able to dwell long upon spiritual things
without some dissipation of his thoughts, as innocent Adam could —who, before
his fall, might have walked through the whole world, and not have had one
thought of his heart misplaced, or turned from its right point by the diversity
of objects he met, they being all to the eye of his soul a clear medium,
through which it passed to terminate itself in God, as the air is now to our
bodily eye, through which it pierceth, and stays not till it comes at the body
of the sun.  But, alas! it is with
us as with one that hath had his skull broke by some dangerous fall, who, when
recovered, finds his brain so weakened that, when he goes about any serious
business, he cannot intend much, or persist long, but is off and on, out and
in.  Such vagaries and cross steps
do our hearts take in duty.  And
this gives Satan advantage enough to work upon.  If the ship be light for want of ballast, and a strong gust
of wind arises too, O how hard then is it to make it sail trim, or keep from
toppling over!  A vain heart, and a
strong temptation together, makes sad work, when God stands by and gives Satan
leave to practice upon it. Be therefore careful to take in thy ballast before
thou puttest to sea.  Labour to
poise thy heart before thou goest to pray.  Which, that thou mayest do, improve the following
directions.

 

[Directions against levity in prayer.]

 

         1.
Direction.  Innure thyself
to holy thoughts in thy ordinary course.  The best way to keep vessels from leaking—when we would use
them for some special occasion—is to let them stand full.  A vain heart out of prayer will be
little better in prayer.  The more
familiar thou makest holy thoughts and savoury discourse to thee in thy
constant walking, the more seasoned thou wilt find thy heart for this
duty.  A scholar, by often rubbing
up his notions when alone, and talking of them with his colleagues, makes them
his own; so that, when he is put upon any exercise, they are at hand, and come
fresh into his head. Whereas another, for want of this filling, wants mat­ter
for his thoughts to feed on, which makes him straggle into many impertinencies
before he can hit of that which suits his occasion.  The carnal liberty which we give our hearts in our ordinary
walking, makes our thoughts more unruly and unsuitable for duties of
worship.  For such thoughts and
words leave a tincture upon the spirit, and so hinder the soul’s taking a
better colour when it returns into the pres­ence of God.  Walk in the company of sinful thoughts
all the day, and thou wilt hardly shut the door upon them when thou goest into
thy closet.  Thou hast taught them
to be bold; they will now plead acquaint­ance with thee, and crowd in after
thee; like little children, who, if you play with them, and carry them much in
your arms, will cry after you when you would be rid of their company.

         2.
Direction.  Possess thy
heart with a reverential awe of God’s majesty and holiness.  This, if anything, will ‘gird up the
loins of thy mind’ strait, and make thee hoc agere —mind what thou art
about.  Darest thou toy and trifle
with the divine majesty in a duty of his worship! carry thyself childishly
before the living God! to look with one eye upon him, as it were, and with the
other upon a lust! to speak one word to God, and chat two with the world!  Does not thy heart tremble at this?  Sic ora, saith Bernard, quasi
assumptus et præsentatus ante faciem ejus in excelso throno, ubi millia millium
ministrant ei—so pray as if thou wert taken up and presented before God sit­ting
on his royal throne on high, with millions of mil­lions of his glorious
servitors ministering to him in heaven. 
Certainly the face of such a court would awe thee.  If thou wert but at the bar before a
judge, and hadst a glass of a quarter of an hour’s length turned up—being all
the time thou hadst allowed thee to improve for the begging of thy life, now
forfeited and condemned—wouldst thou spare any of this little time to gaze
about the court, to see what clothes this man had on, and what lace another
wears?  God shame us for our folly
in misspending our praying seasons. 
Is it not thy life thou art begging at God’s hand; and that a better, I
trow, than the malefactor sues for of his mortal judge?  And dost thou know whether thou shalt
have so long as a quarter of an hour allowed thee when thou art kneeling down?
And yet wilt thou scribble and dash it out to no purpose upon
impertinencies?  If thou dost, why
no better? Why no closer and compact in thy thoughts? Will God judge us for
‘every idle word’ that is spoken in our shop and house, at our work, yea sport
and recreation?  And shall thy idle
words in prayer not be accounted for? 
And are not those idle words that come from a lazy heart, a sleepy
heart, that minds not what it says? 
What procured Nadab and Abihu so sudden and strange an death?  Was it not their strange incense?  And is not this strange praying, when
thy mind is a stranger to what thy lips utter? Behave thyself thus to thy
prince if thou darest.  Let thy
hand reach a petition to him, and thine eye look or thy tongue talk to another;
would he not command this clown, or rather madman, to be taken from be­fore
him?  ‘Have I need of mad men, that
ye have brought this fellow to play the mad man in my presence?’ I Sam. 21:15, said
Achish when David be­haved himself discomposedly.  O! could you but look through the keyhole, and see how
glorious angels in heaven serve their Maker, who are said to ‘behold the face
of God continually,’ surely thou wouldst tremble to think of thy slightly
performing this duty.

         3.
Direction.  Go not in thy
own strength to this duty, but commit thyself by faith to the conduct of the
Spirit of God.  God hath
promised to prepare, or establish, as the word is, the heart.  Indeed, then the heart is prepared when
established and fixed.  A shaking
hand may soon write a right line as our loose hearts keep themselves steady in
duty.  Shouldst thou, with Job,
make a covenant with thine eye, and resolve to bung up thine ear from all by‑discourse,
how long, thinkest thou, shouldst thou be true to thine own self, who hast so
little command of thine own thoughts? 
Thy best way were to put thyself out of thine own hands, and lay thy
weight on him that is able to bear thee better than thy own legs.  Pray with David, ‘Uphold me with thy
free spirit,’ Ps.
51:12.  The vine leaning on a wall preserves itself
and its fruit, whose own weight else, without this help, would soon lay it in
the dirt.

         Second
Cause.   A second cause of
these wander­ing roving thoughts in prayer, is a dead and unactive heart in
him that prayeth.  If the
affections be once down, then the Christian is as a city whose wall is broken
down.  No keeping then the thoughts
in, or Satan out.  The soul is an
active creature.  Either it must be
employed by us, or it will employ us, though to little purpose.  Like our poor, find them work and they
keep at home.  But let them want
for it, and you have them roving and begging all the country over. The
affections are as the master-workmen, which set our thoughts on work.  Love entertains the soul with pleasant
and delightful thoughts on its beloved object. Grief commands in the soul to
muse with sorrowful thoughts on its ail and trouble.  So that, Christian, as long as thy heart bleeds in the sense
of sin, they will have no leisure, when thou art confessing sin, to rove and
wander.  If thy desires be lively,
and flame forth in thy petitions, with a holy zeal for the graces and mercies
prayed for, this will be as ‘a wall of fire’ to keep thy thoughts at home.

         The
lazy prayer is the roving prayer. 
When Israel talked of travelling three days’ journey in the wilderness,
Pharaoh said, ‘Ye are idle, ye are idle; therefore ye say, Let us go.’  As if he had said, ‘Surely they have
little to do, or else they would not think of gadding.’  And therefore, to cure them of this, he
commanded more work to be given, Ex. 5.  We may truly say thus of our wandering hearts, ‘They are
idle.’ We pray, but our affections are dead and dull.  The heart hath little to do in the duty for the setting of
its thoughts on work—only to speak or read a few words, which is so easy a task
that a man may do it and spare whole troops of his thoughts to be employed else­where
at the same time.  But now, when
the affec­tions are up, melting into sorrow in the confession of sin, sallying
forth with holy panting and breathing in its supplications, truly this fixeth
the thoughts.  The soul intended
can no more be in two places together than the body.  And as these holy affections will pre­vent the soul’s
wandering disposition, so also make it more difficult for Satan to throw in his
injections. Flies will not so readily light on a pot seething hot on the fire
as when it stands cold in the window. Baalze­bub is one of the devil’s
names—that is, the god os a fly—an allusion to the idolatrous sacrifices, where
flies were so busy.  This fly will
not so readily light on thy sacrifice when flaming from the altar of thy heart
with zeal.

         Now,
to preserve thy affections in prayer warm and lively, let it be thy care to
chase and stir up the natural heat that is undoubtedly in thee, if a Chris­tian,
by the serious consideration of thy sins, wants, and mercies.  While thou art pondering on these,
thine eye will affect thine heart. 
They will, as Abishag did to David, by laying them in thy bosom, bring
thy soul to a kindly heat in those affections which thou art to act in the
several parts of prayer.  Thy sins
re­viewed, and heightened with their aggravations, will make the springs of
godly sorrow to rise in thy heart. Canst thou choose but mourn when thou shalt
read thy several indictments to thy guilty soul, now called to hold up its hand
at the bar of thy conscience? Canst thou hear how the holy law of God hath been
violated, his Spirit grieved, and his Son murdered by thy bloody hands, and
this when he hath been treat­ing thee mercifully, and not mourn?  Surely, should a man walk over a field
after a bloody battle hath been fought, and there see the bodies, though of his
enemies, lying weltering in their blood, his heart could not but then relent,
though in the heat of battle his fury shut out all thoughts of pity.  But what if he should spy a father or a
dear friend dead upon the place, of the wounds which his unnatural hand had
given, would not his bowels turn? 
Yes, surely, if he carried the heart of a man in his bosom.  Thou may­est guess, Christian, by this,
what help such a media­tion would afford toward the breaking of thy heart for
thy sins.  Certainly it would make
thee throw away that unhappy dagger which was the instrument to give those deep
stabs to the heart of Christ—and this is the best mourning of all.  Again, thy wants well weighed would
give wings to thy desires.  If once
thou wert possessed with the true state of thy affairs—how necessary it is for thee
to have supplies from heaven, or to starve and die.  And so in the rest, &c.

         Third
Cause.  A third cause of roving
thoughts, is encumbrance of worldly cares.  It is no wonder that man can enjoy no privacy with God in a
duty, who hath so many from the world rapping at his door to speak with him
when he is speaking with God.  Peri­clitatur
pietas in negotiis—religion never goes in more danger than when in a crowd
of worldly busi­ness.  If such a
one prays, it is not long before some­thing comes in his head to take him
off.  ‘Isaac went out to
meditate,...and behold the camels.’ 
The world is soon in such a one's sight.  He puts forth one hand to heaven in a spiritual thought, but
soon pulls it back, and a worldly one steps before it, and so makes a breach
upon his duty.  ‘A dream,’ Solomon
tells us, ‘cometh through a multitude of business.’  And so do dreaming prayers.  They are made up of heterogene­ous independent
thoughts.  The shop, barn, ware­house
are unfit places for prayer—I mean the shop in the heart, and the barn in the
heart.  I have read of one who was
said to be a walking library, because he left not his learning with his books
in his study, but carried it about with him wherever he went, in his memory and
judgment, that had digested all he read, and so made it his own.  And have we not too many walking shops
and barns, who carry them to bed and board, church and closet?  And how can such pray with a united
heart, who have so many sharers in their thoughts?  O anima sancta sola esto, anne nes­cis verecundum habes
Sponsum!—O, holy soul, get thee alone, if thou wouldst have Christ give
thee his loves. Knowest thou not thou hast a modest husband? Indeed he gives
the soul not his embraces in a crowd, nor the kisses of his lips in the
market.  Jacob sends away his
company to the other side of the river, and then God gave him one of the sweetest
meetings he had in all his life. 
Let him now pray even a whole night if he will, and welcome.  Now, Christian, for thy help against
these—

 

[Directions against the encumbrance

of worldly cares in
prayer.]

 

         1.
Direction.  Labour to keep
thy distance to the world, and that sovereignty which God hath given thee
over in its profits and pleasures, or whatever else may prove a snare to
thee.  While the father and mas­ter
know their place and keep their distance, so long will servants and children
will keep theirs, by being dutiful and officious.  But, when they forget this—the father grows fond of the one,
and the master too fa­miliar with the other—then they begin to lose their
authority, and the other to grow saucy and under no command.  Bid them go, and it may be they will not
stir.  Set them a task, and they
will bid you do it your­self. 
Truly thus it fares with the Christian.  All the creatures are his servants.  And so long as he keeps his heart at a
holy distance from them, and maintains his lordship over them, not laying them
in his bosom which God hath put under his feet, Ps. 8, all is well. He marches to the
duties of God's worship in a goodly order.  He can be private with God, and these not be bold to crowd
in to disturb him.  But when we
grow fond of, and too familiar with, them, alas! how are we pestered with
them!  We read of no undutiful­ness
of Hagar towards her mistress while a servant; but when Sarah gives her into
Abraham's bosom, and admits her to share with herself in conjugal privileges,
truly then she begins to justle with her mistress, and carries herself saucily
to her.  Yea, and Abraham himself,
who would not have stuck to have put her away before, yet now he hath taken her
into his bed, can hardly persuade his heart to yield to it, till God joins with
Sarah in the business, bidding him ‘hearken unto his wife.’

         Thus,
Christian, use the world as a servant —which it was made for—and you may go to
prayer, as Abraham up the mount, leaving his servants below. Thou shalt find
they will not have that power to dis­turb thee.  But, let either profits or pleasures share with Christ in
thy conjugal affection, and thou wilt find thy heart loath to send this Hagar
away, though at the request of Christ himself, when he is calling thee into
communion with himself.  Either use
the world as if thou usedst it not, or you will pray as if you prayed not.  The smoke and sparks that rise from a
furnace are carried that way the wind lies.  If thy heart be to the world, thou canst not then keep thy
thoughts from driving thither. 
Then, and not till then, will thy prayer ascend like a pillar of
incense, when there is a holy calmness on thy spirit, and this boisterous wind
of inordinate affections to the world be laid.  I must not take thee off from diligence in thy worldly
calling; this never spoils a good prayer, only watch thy heart that thou
prostitute it not to the wan­ton embraces of it.  That is the pure metalled sword or knife which bends this
way and that way, but returns to its straightness again, and stands not bent.
That heart is of the right make, and hath heaven’s stamp upon it, which can
stoop and bend to the low­est action of his worldly calling, but then returns
to his fitness for communion with God, and his heart stands not bent to the
creature, but in a direct line to God and his worship.

         2.
Direction.  Strengthen thy faith
on the provi­dence of God for the things of this life.  A distrustful heart is ever
thoughtful.  Whatever he is doing,
his thoughts will be on that he fears he shall lose.  When the merchant's adventure is insured—that whatever comes
he cannot lose much—his heart then is at rest, he can eat his bread with quiet,
and sleep without dreaming of shipwrecks and pirates.  While another, whose estate is at sea, and fears what will
become of it, O how is this poor man haunted wherever he is going, whatever he
is doing, with disquieting thoughts! If he hears the wind but a little loud, he
cannot sleep for fear of his ship at sea. 
Truly thus a soul by faith rolled on the promise will find a happy
deliverance from that disturbance which another is pestered with in
prayer.  Wherefore God in
particular directs us to lay this burden from our shoulders on his, when we go
to pray, that no by‑thoughts arising from these our cares may disturb us.  ‘Be careful for nothing, but...let your
requests be made known unto God,’ Php. 4:6.  As if he had said, ‘Leave me to take care of your work, and
mind you to do mine.  If things go
amiss in your estates, names, families, I will take the blame, and give you
leave to say God was not careful enough of you.’  When the males of Israel went to worship God at Jerusalem,
that they might not carry distracted minds with them—from the fear of their
families left naked behind without a man to fight for them if an enemy should
come—God takes the special care of their families in their absence, Ex. 34:24.  If we have but a faithful servant, who
we believe will look to our business as carefully as our own selves, this makes
us go forth with a free and quiet spirit, and not trouble ourselves what is
done at home when we are abroad. O then, let us be ashamed if our faith on
God’s providence be not much more able to ease us of the burden of distracting
cares.

         Fourth
Cause.  These wandering
thoughts are occasioned by the Christian’s non‑observance of his heart in
the act of prayer.  Let him be
at never so much cost of preparatory pains before duty, yet if he doth not
watch himself narrowly in the duty itself, his heart will give him the slip,
and run into a thousand vanities and impertinencies.  The mind of man is a nimble creature; in one moment you
shall have it in heaven, and in the very next you shall find it on the
earth.  Like Philip, who being
joined to the eunuch’s chariot, on a sudden was carried out of his sight, and
found at Azotus, a place far distant thence; thus our hearts are soon gone away
from the duty in hand, and taken a vagary to the furthest part of the world in
their wild imagination.  Yea—which
is worse—some­times the mind is off and gadding, but the Christian goes on with
his lip-labour and takes no notice that his thoughts are gone astray; as Joseph
and Mary were gone a day’s journey before they missed their child, who stayed
behind with other company.  Thus
the Christian loses his heart in duty, and goes on with a careless formality,
that sometimes the prayer is al­most done before he observes his heart’s seat
to be empty, or considers that his soul and spirit hath not borne him company
all the way; who, had he but at the first stepping aside of his thoughts been
aware, might have recovered and rescued them out of the hands of those vanities
which stole them, as David did his wives and children from the Amalekites,
without any great trouble or loss. 
And therefore, Christian, keep thy heart with all diligence; observe
whether it doth its part in the duty, or be as a string that sounds not in the
concert.  As you do with your
children, so you had need do with your childish mind. Haply they wait on you to
church, but when you are set, if not awed by your eye, they are gone, and may
be playing all sermon time in the fields, and you miss them not; to prevent
which, you set them before you that you may see their carriage and their
behaviour. If thou didst thus pray, observing and watching thy thoughts, where,
and what about, thou wouldst find more composure in thy spirit than thou dost.

         Nay,
do not only observe thy thoughts in duty, but call them to review after
duty.  Many go from prayer too much
like boys from school, that think no more of their lesson till they return
again—leave praying, and all thoughts how they behaved them­selves in prayer,
together.  For shame do not
thus.  If thou neglectest to take
account of thyself, consider that thou must give an account both of it and this
thy neglect after it before thy betters. 
God himself will have the full hearing thereof.  He sets not any about a work, of which
he means not to take cognizance how it was done.  And were it not better that the audit should be in thy more
private court, than thou be called to give up thy account at his dreadful
tribunal? Resolve therefore to commune with thy heart upon this point; and the
sooner thou goest about it the better it is like to be done, because then the
circum­stances of the action will be freshest in thy memory. Go not then out of
thy closet till thou hast examined thy heart.  If thy thoughts in prayer shall be found to have been in any
measure free and entire, thy affec­tions warm and lively, matter of joy will
arise to thee, and thanksgiving to God that thou hast escaped the hands of so
many rovers and freebooters that lay in wait to make prize of thee.  But, take heed thou ap­plaudest not
thyself for thine own care and circum­spection.  Alas! thou wert not thine own keeper.  He that lent his ear to thy prayer gave
thee thy heart to pray, and also keep it up in duty.  Say rather with David, ‘Who am I, that I should be able to
offer so willingly?’  If thy heart
upon the review be found to have played the truant, take shame, that thou beest
not put to shame before the Lord. 
O blush to think thou shouldst be so unfaithful to God and thine own
soul, yea so foolish, to run up and down on every idle errand which Satan sends
thee, and in the meanwhile neglect thy own work of so great an importance!  The spouse’s complaint may fit thy
mouth: ‘They made me the keeper of the vineyards, but mine own vine­yard have I
not kept.’

         He
is an unwise messenger who, being sent to market to provide food, is drawn by
every idle com­panion to spend both his time and money in vain, and at night
comes home without bread for the hun­gry family.  O! Christian, was not thy errand to the throne of grace to
get new supplies from heaven for thy poor soul?  And doth it not grieve thee to think that now thy soul must
pinch, for thy playing away thy praying time and talent, which, as market
money, was put into thy hand to procure a new store?  Yea, that thou hast been injurious to thy God by taking his
name in vain?  Thou appearedst in a
praying posture; thy hand voice were lift up to heaven, as if thou meantest to
pray; but—like him who said he would go into the vineyard, and did not—thou
hast turned a contrary way, and set thy thoughts to work in another field.  Will not this affect thy heart?  Yes, surely, and afflict it also.  And this affliction of thy spirit will
be a sovereign means to excite thy care for the future. The faults which are
unobserved are also uncorrected in the scholar's exercise, and so not like to
be mended in the next.  Wandering
thoughts in prayer are like vagrants. 
No such way to rid the country of one, and the heart of the other, as by
giving both the law—the lash, I mean.

         Question.  O! but, saith the Christian, I have
used this means, and yet, to the grief of my heart, I am still pestered with
them.

         Answer.  Take a few consolatory words to ease
thy ach­ing heart, that groans under the burden of these thy wandering
thoughts.

 

[Consolatory thoughts
for the Christian too

much downcast through
wanderings in prayer.]

 

         1.
Thought.  The affliction of
thy spirit for them speaks more comfort to thee, than the presence of them
discomfort.  That thou art
annoyed with such troublesome guests is no more than the best of saints have
found and acknowledged.  Wherefore
did David pray that God would ‘unite his heart to fear his name,’ but that he
found it gadding?  What means Paul
by his complaint, ‘When I would do good, evil is present with me,’ but that he
had not yet got the full mastery of his unruly thoughts?  Thou seest it is no new disease thou
art troubled with, but such as is common, not only to the sons of men, but the
chil­dren of God—a spot that may be seen on a saint’s coat.  But thy being afflicted for them,
speaks one of these two things—and both of them have comfort in their mouth for
thee.  It proves that they are
either Satan’s injections, and not the birth of thine own heart; or, if they
stream from thy own heart, yet the Spirit of God is the indweller, and these
but intru­ders.

         (1.)
The moan thou makest for being yoked to such company is a sign they are rather
sent in by Satan, than called in by thee—his injections, rather than the
suggestions of thy own heart.  Our
own thoughts commonly are more taking with and plea­surable to us.  The mother does not more love the fruit
of her own body, than we do the product of our minds.  Hence our ‘own ways,’ words, and thoughts are called our
‘pleasure,’ Isa.
58:13,
and therefore they may be possibly shot from his bow—thy heart being so
affrighted at them, and wounded for them. 
Or,

         (2.)
If they prove the offspring of thine own mind, yet thy afflicted soul shows
that the Spirit and grace of God is the indweller, and these but
intruders and involuntary motions, such as in thy deliberate thoughts thou
abhorrest.  Were they, as I may so
say, of thy own house and family, thou wouldst not show this zeal to shut the
door upon them, or shriek out when they come in upon thee.  The wife does not cry out when husband,
children, or servants come into the room, but when thieves and cutthroats, from
whom she looks for nothing but cruelty. 
It seems they are neither of thine acquaintance, nor likest thou their
company, by thy behaviour before them. 
Be not therefore over‑troubled; for Satan, if he can but disquiet thy
mind with false fears, he hath one part of his errand done for which he sends
them.  These wicked thoughts are
upon no other terms with thee than holy thoughts are in the wicked.  As those profit not them, because not
entertained; so, for the same reason, shall not these hurt thee.

         2.
Thought.  Know these be the
necessary infirmities of thy imperfect state; and, so long as thou art
faithful to resist and mourn for them, they rather move God’s pity to thee than
wrath against thee.  It is one
thing for a child, employed by his father, willingly or negligently to spoil
the work he sets him about; and another, when through natural weakness he fails
in the exact doing of it.  Should a
master bid his serv­ant give him a cup of wine, and he should willingly throw
both glass and wine on the ground, he might expect his master’s just
displeasure.  But if, through some
unsteadiness—it may be palsy in his hand—he should, notwithstanding all his
care, spill some of it in the bringing, an ingenuous master will rather pity
him for his disease, than be angry for the wine that is lost.  And did God ever give his servants
occasion to think him a hard master? 
Hath he not promised, ‘that he will spare us as a father his child that
serves him?’  From whence come all
the apologies which he makes for his people's failings if not from his merciful
heart, interpreting them candidly to proceed rather from their want of skill
than will, power, or desire? ‘Is not this a brand plucked out of the fire?’ Zech. 3:2, is
Christ’s answer in the behalf of Joshua, whom Satan accused for his filthy
garments.  ‘The Spirit indeed is
willing, but the flesh is weak,’ Matt. 26:41, was his fav­ourable gloss for his
disciples’ drowsiness in prayer.

         3.
Thought.  Believers’ prayers
pass a refining before they come into God’s hands.  Did he indeed read them with their impertinences,
and take our blotted copy out of our hand, we could not fear too much what the
issue might be.  But they come
under the corrector’s hand.  Our
Lord Jesus hath the inspec­tion of them, who sets right all our broken requests
and misplaced petitions.  He washes
out our blots with his blood.  His
mediation is the fine searce[2] through
which our prayers are bolted.  All
that is coarse and heterogeneous he severs from the pure. What is of his own
Spirit’s breathing he presents, and what our fleshly part added he hides, that
it shall not prejudice us or our prayers. 
This was the sweet gos­pel truth wrapped up in the priest’s bearing the
sins of their holy offerings, Ex. 28:38.

         4.
Thought.  Though the
presence of these be a great affliction to thee, yet God will make them of
singular use to thee.  (1.) To
humble thee, and take all glorying from thee, that thou shalt not pride thy­self
in thy other assistances, which thou wouldst be prone to do if thy prayer had
not this lame foot to humble thee. 
(2.) To keep thee wakeful and circum­spect in thy Christian course.  By thy disturbance from these thou seest
the war is not yet quite done. The Canaanite is yet in the land.  Though not master of the field, he is
yet skulking in his holes and fast­nesses, out of which he comes like an adder
in the path, that by these sudden surprises and nibbling at thy heel he may
make thee, like the rider, fall back­ward, and so steal a victory unawares of
thee, whom he despairs to overcome in a pitched battle by sins more
deliberate.  And truly, if he dare
be so bold as to set upon thee when in communion with God—so nigh thy rock and
castle—doth it not behoove thee, Christian, to look about thee, that he gets no
greater advantage of thee when thou art at further distance from him in thy
worldly employments?  (3.) God will
make thee by these more merciful to, and less censor­ious of, thy brethren of
greater failings.

         5.
Thought.  In thy faithful
conflict with them thou mayest promise thyself, at last, victory over them.  But expect this gradually to be done;
not at once, nor hastily, to be delivered into thy hands, as God said of
Israel’s enemies.  Therefore,
maintain the fight: faint not at their stubborn resistance; pray, and mourn
that thou canst pray no better; mourn and fight again; fight and believe them
down, though sometimes they get thee under their feet.  God made a promise to Noah after the
flood, in which he gave him a sovereignty over the creatures.  ‘The fear of you and the dread of you shall
be upon every beast of the earth,’ Gen. 9:2.  But we see many beasts are fierce, savage, and cruel to
mankind.  Yet thus it is fulfilled
—that none are so fierce and unruly but, by man’s art and industry, they have
been and still are taken and tamed, as the apostle hath it, James 3:7.  Thus God hath given his saints by
promise, a sovereignty over sin and Satan; he will subdue both under your feet.
The dread of the saints shall fall on the proudest devil, and his foot shall be
set on the neck of the fiercest lust. 
Yet this will cost hot work before the one or other be effected.

 

[Satan strives to hinder the success of prayer.]

 

         Third Design.  The third and last design that Satan hath against the saint
in this great undertaking of prayer, is to hinder his success therein.  He will have thee, Christian, if he
can, one way or other, outwards or homewards; and it comes all to one whether
the ship be taken as it goes forth or as it returns home.  Nay, of the two it is the greater loss
to be defeated of our expectations when we look for our prayers to come richly
fraught with mercies from heaven.  Now, two ways he labours to hinder the suc­cess of prayer.

         First.  He endeavours to hinder the welcome of
their prayers with God, that they may be cast as a petition out of court which
God will not look on.

Second.  If he cannot prevail in this, then he plays
an after-game, and will so handle the matter, if possible, that though the
prayers have a welcome with God, and find gracious reception in heaven, yet
that this be not believed by the saint on earth, but that he gives them up for
lost and looks no more after them. 
Now though this be not a total and final miscarriage of the prayer, yet
the devil hath hereby a great advantage, depriving him of the present comfort
and benefit which his fight might pay him in before a return is made of his
prayer.

 

[Satan would hinder
the success of the saints’ prayers,

 by getting them to be such as would be
unwelcome

with God.]

 

         First
way of Hinderance.  Satan
endeavours to hinder the welcome of the saints’ prayers with God, that
they may be cast as a petition out of court which God will not look on.  He labours to hinder even the entertainment
of our prayers in heaven.  Now our
prayers may several ways be stopped at heaven’s door, and denied that gracious
access which God useth to give.  I
speak now of saints’ prayers.  As
for the prayers of the wicked, there is one law for them all —to be cast over
the bar and the door shut upon them. 
The tree must be good before the fruit it bears can be sweet on God’s
palate.  Now the stoppage which the
saint’s prayer meets withal, springs not from any unwillingness in God to give
out his mercy, or any dislike to have beggars at his door.  Adeo pla­cet Deo dare, ut propter
hoc omnia creavit, volebat enim habere quæ et quibus dare—God is so delighted
with acts of mercy, that therefore he made the world, and all in it, that he
might have suitors to beg and alms to give those suitors.  But from ourselves we put the stones
into the lock, which hinders the turning of prayer’s key in it, and so indeed
we shut the door of mercy upon ourselves. 
The devil himself could not immediately hinder a saint’s welcome.  He hath not such command of God's ear,
did we not put words into his mouth, and help him to a charge against us. The
lies which he, as a false accuser carries to God, shall not prejudice us in
God's thoughts or make our prayers less acceptable; but if the accusation be
true, God will hear it, though he be a wicked spirit that tells the tale, and
we his dear children of whom it is told. 
A father, when he hears of some wicked prank his child hath played, will
chide and frown on him, though it be an enemy that told him of it.  Now, to instance what miscarriages in a
saint hinder their audience at the throne of grace.  1. When the thing prayed for is not according to the will of
God.  2. When the end the saint
aims at is not levelled right.  3.
When with his prayer he joins not a diligent use of the means.  4. When some secret grudge is lodged in
his heart against his brother.  5.
When there is a want of faith.

 

[Miscarriages in a praying saint which

hinder his audience
in heaven.]

 

         1.
Miscarriage.  When the thing
prayed for is not according to the will of God.  We have not a liberty to pray at random for what we
will.  The throne of grace is not
set up that we may come and there vent our sudden distempered passions before
God, or make any saucy motion to him that comes in our head. Truly then God
would have work enough.  If we had
promised to sign all our petitions without any regard to the subject‑matter of
them, he should too oft set his hand against himself, and pass that away which
would be little for his glory to give. 
Herod was too lavish when he gave his minion leave to ask what she
would, even to half of his kingdom. 
And he paid dearly for it; he gave her that head which was more worth
than his whole kingdom—for the cutting off his head lost him his crown.  No, we have to do with a wise God, who,
to stop the mouth of all such bold beggars, that would ask what unbeseems us to
desire, or him to give, hath given a law of prayer, and stinted us to the
matter thereof: ‘When ye pray, say, Our Father,’ &c.  That is, learn here what you may pray
for in faith to receive.  ‘And this
is the confidence that we have in him, that, if we ask any thing according to
his will, he heareth us,’ I
John 5:14.

         Faith,
without a promise, is like a foot without any firm ground to stand upon.  It was well Luther interpreted himself,
when he said, fiat voluntas mea —my will be done—mea, Domine, quia
tua—my will, Lord, because thine. 
Now, the promise contains this will of God.  Be sure thou gatherest all thy flowers of prayer out of this
garden, and thou canst not do amiss. 
But take heed of mingling with them any wild gourd of thine own.  Remember the check our Lord gave his
disciples when venting their vindictive passion in their prayer: ‘Wilt thou
that we command fire to come down from heaven, and consume them?...And he said,
Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of,’ Luke 9:54, 55.  They had here an ex­ample to
countenance their act.  But that heroicus
impetus, and extraordinary spirit by which Elijah and other of the prophets
were acted, is not our standing rule for prayer.  That came in them from the Spirit of God, which in us
may proceed from the spirit of the devil, which is implied in our Saviour's
question, ‘Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of.’  As if he had said, ‘You little think
who stirred you up.  You had your
coal, not from God’s altar, but from Satan’s furnace.’

         O!
let us beware that we be not the devil’s mes­sengers in going to God upon his
errand; which we do when we pray against the rule or without a warrant. Belch
not out thy unruly passions of anger there, presently to have thine enemies
confounded—the disciples’ case; nor vent thy intemperate sorrow through
impatience—as Job in the paroxysm of his trouble begs of God to take away his
life in all haste. Take counsel of the word, and ‘let not thy lip be hasty to
utter a matter before the Lord.’ 
Daniel’s method was the right, Dan. 9:2.  First, he goes to the Scripture and searches what the mind
of God was concerning the time when he had promised his people a return out of
their captivity, which having found, and learned thereby how to lay his plea,
then away he goes to besiege the throne of grace.  ‘And I set my face unto the Lord God, to seek by prayer,’
&c., ver.
3.  Art thou sick or poor?—in want of any
temporal mercy? Go and inquire upon what terms these are promised, that thy
faith may not jet beyond the foundation of the promise by a peremptory and
absolute desire of them, for then thy building will fall, and thou be put to
shame, because thou askest more than God ever promised.

         2.
Miscarriage.  Though the
subject‑matter of a saint’s prayer be bottomed on the word, yet if the end
he aims at be not levelled right, this is a second door at which his prayer
will be stopped, though it pass the former.  ‘Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may
consume it upon your lusts.’ Take, I confess, a Christian in his right temper,
and he lev­els at the glory of God. 
Yet as a needle is touched with a lodestone may, being shaken, be
removed from its beloved point, to which nature hath espoused it, though
trembling till it again recovers it; so, a gra­cious soul may, in a particular
act and request, vary from this end, being jogged by Satan, yea disturbed by an
enemy nearer home, his own unmortified corrup­tion.  Truly he is a rare archer that ever hits the white. Do you
not think it possible for a saint, in distress of body and spirit, to pray for
health in the one, and comfort in the other, with too selfish a respect had to
his own ease and quiet?  Yes sure,
and to pray for gifts and assistance in some eminent service, with an eye asquint
to his own credit and applause, to pray for a child with too inordinate a
desire that the honour of his house may be built up in him—I know none so
seasoned with grace as not to be subject to such warp­ings of spirit.  And this may be understood as the
sense, in part, of that expression: ‘If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord
will not hear me, but verily the Lord hath heard me,’ Ps. 66:18.  For, to desire our own health, peace,
and reputation, be not an iniquity —when contained in the banks that God hath
set —yet, when they overflow, and are to such a height lift up as to overtop
the glory of God, yea to stand but in a level with it, they are a great
abomination.  That which in the
first or second degree is wholesome food, would be rank poison in the fourth or
fifth.

         Therefore,
Christian, catechise thyself before thou prayest, O my soul, what sends thee on
this errand?  Know but thy own
mind, what thou prayest for, and thou mayest soon know God’s mind how thou
shalt speed.  Secure God his glory,
and thou mayest carry away the mercy with thee.  Had Adoni­jah asked Abishag out of love to her person, and
not rather out of love to the crown, it is like Solomon would not have denied
the banns between them; but this wise prince observed his drift, to make her
but a step to his getting into the throne, which he ambi­tiously thirsted for,
and therefore his request was denied with so much disdain.  Look that, when thy petition is loyal,
there be not treason in thy end and aim. 
If there be, he will find it out.

         Question.  When shall I know that I aim at God or
self in prayer?

         Answer.  This will commonly appear by the pos­ture
of our heart when God delays or denies the thing we pray for.  A soul that can acquiesce, and
patiently bear a delay or denial—I speak now of such mercies as are of an
inferior nature, not necessary to salva­tion, and so not absolutely
promised—gives a hopeful testimony that the glory of God weighs more in his
thoughts than his own private interest and accommo­dation.  A selfish heart is both peremptory and
hasty.  It must have the thing it
cries for, and that quickly too, or else it faints and chides, falls down in a
swoon, or breaks out into murmuring complaints, not sparing to fall foul on the
promises and attributes of God himself. 
‘Wherefore have we fasted, say they, and thou seest not?’ Isa. 58:3.  Now, from whence come both these, but
from an overvaluing of ourselves? —which makes us clash with God’s glory, that
may be more advanced by these delays and denials, than if we had the thing we
so earnestly desire.  God was more
glorified in denying Christ himself his life, than if he had let that bitter
cup pass without his tasting of it, which Christ, understanding fully, resigned
himself thereunto, saying, ‘Father, glorify thy name; not my will, but thy will
be done,’ John
12:28[3].  As if he had said, I would not save my
life to lose thee the least of thy glory. 
This is the copy we should all write after. Indeed, if our distempered
hearts be so wilful and hasty as not to be content with what, and that when it
pleaseth God also, he should not love us in gratifying such desires, for
thereby he would but nourish such distemper, which is better cured by starving
than feeding it.

         3.
Miscarriage.  The
Christian’s prayer may miscarry when, with his prayer, he joins not a
diligent use of the means.  We
must not think to lie upon God, as some lazy people do on their rich kindred;
to be always begging of him, but not putting forth our hand to work in the use
of means.  God hath ap­pointed
prayer as a help to our diligence, not as a cloak for our sloth.  Idle beggars are welcome neither to
God’s door nor man’s.  What! wilt
thou lift up thy hands to God in prayer, and then put them in thy pocket?  Doth not God forbid our charity to him
that worketh not?  ‘We commanded
you, that if any would not work, neither should he eat,’ II Thes. 3:10.  And will he encourage that idleness in
thee which he would have punished by us? 
It is a good gloss of Bernard upon that of Jeremiah, ‘Let us lift up our
hearts with our hands unto God in the heavens,’ Lam. 3:41—qui orat et laborat, ille cor
levat ad Deum cum manibus—he that prayeth, and is diligent in the use of
means, is the person that lifts up his heart with his hands to God.  Look therefore, Christian, thou
minglest thy sweat with thy tears, thy labour with thy prayers.  If thy prayer doth not set thee on
work, neither will it set thy God at work for thee.  Is it a lust thou art praying against?  And dost thou sit down idle to see
whether it will now die alone? 
Will that prayer slay one lust that lets another—thy sloth, I mean —live
under its nose?  As God will not save
thy soul, so neither will he destroy thy sin, unless thy hand also be put to
the work.  See how God raised
Joshua from off the earth, where he lay praying and mourning for Israel's
defeat, Joshua
7:10, 11:
‘Get thee up; wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face? Israel hath sinned,’
&c.; ver.
12,
‘Therefore the children of Israel could not stand before their enemies,’
&c.; ver.
13,
‘Up, sanctify the people.’

         O
how oft may God rouse us up from our knees, and say, ‘Why lie ye here with your
lazy prayers?  You have sinned in
not taking my counsel and obeying my orders.  I bade you watch as well as pray; why do you not one as well
as the other?  My command obliges
you to flee from the snare that Satan lays for you, as well as pray against it:
therefore it is you cannot stand before your lusts.’  Moses durst not go to God with a prayer in behalf of sinning
Israel till he had shown his zeal for God against their sin, and then he goes
and speeds; see
Ex. 32:25, compared with ver. 31. 
Dost thou think to walk loosely all day, yielding thyself, and be­traying
the glory of the God, into the hands of thy lust, and then mend all with a
prayer at night?  Alas! thy
cowardice and sloth will get to heaven before thy prayer, and put thee to shame
when thou comest on such an errand.

         4.
Miscarriage.  The saint’s
prayer may miscarry from some secret grudge that is lodged in his heart
against his brother.  Anger and
wrath are strange fire to put to our incense.  It is a law writ upon every gate of God’s house—every
ordinance, I mean—at which we are to enter into communion with God, that we
must ‘love our brethren.’ 
When we go to hear the word, what is the caveat, but that we should ‘lay
aside all malice, envy, and evil‑speaking, and as new‑born babes, desire the
sincere milk of the word?’  The
gospel will not speak peace to a wrathful spirit.  Anger and malice, like a salt corroding humour in the
stomach, makes us puke and cast up the milk of the word, that it cannot stay
with us for nourishment.  Is it the
gospel supper thou sittest at? 
This is a love-feast, and though it may be eaten with the bitter herbs
of sin’s sorrow, yet not with the sour leaven of wrath and malice.  ‘When ye come together in the church, I
hear that there be divisions among you,’ &c., I Cor. 11:18.  Now mark what follows, ‘this is not the
Lord’s supper,’ ver.
20.  Christ will not communicate with a
wrangling jangling company.  When
such guests come, he riseth from his own table, as David’s chil­dren did from
Absalom’s upon the murder of their brother Amnon, II Sam. 13:29.  And for prayer, you know the law
thereof, ‘Lift up holy hands, without wrath and doubting,’ I Tim. 2:8—implying,
that it is impossible to pray in faith and wrath.  Duobus modis oratio impeditur, si ad huc homo mala
committit aut si committenti in se ex toto corde non dimittit—our prayer
may be hindered two ways—by lying in any sin we commit against God; or, in
wrath, by not forgiving our brother’s committed against us.  Those two in our Lord’s prayer cannot
be divorced—‘forgive us, as we forgive.’ 
This is that ferrum in vulnere—iron in the wound, as the same
father hath it, which makes our prayers as ineffectual to us, as the plaster is
to the wound in which the bullet still remains.

         Now,
the reason why God is so curious in this point, in because himself is so
gracious; and being ‘love,’ can bid none welcome that are not ‘in love.’ The
heathens had such a notion that the gods would not like the sacrifice and
service of any but such as were like themselves.  And therefore to the sacrifices of Hercules none were to be
admitted that were dwarfs.  To the
sacrifice of Bacchus, a merry god, none that were sad and pensive, as not
suiting their genius.  An excellent
truth may be drawn from this their folly. 
He that would like and please God must be like to God.  Now our God is a God of peace, our
heavenly Father merciful; and therefore to him none can have friendly access
but those that are children of peace, and merciful as their Father is.  O! watch then thy heart, that Satan’s
fireballs—which upon every little occasion he will be throwing in at thy window
—take not hold of thy spirit, to kindle any heart-burning in thee against thy
brother.  If at any time thou seest
the least smoke, or smellest the least scent of this fire in thy bosom, sleep
not till thou hast quenched it.  Be
more careful to lay this fire in thy heart aside, when thou goest to bed, than
the other that is on thy hearth. 
How canst thou by prayer commit thyself into God’s hands that night
wherein thou carriest a spark thereof smothered in thy breast? Irasci,
hominis, iram non preficere, Christiani est (Jerome)—as a frail man thou canst not
hinder but such a spark may light on thee, yet if thou wilt prove thyself a
Christian, thou must quench it. 
Nay more, if thou wilt show thyself a Christian, and have thy prayer
find God’s ear or heart open to it, thou must do thy utmost to quench it in thy
brother’s heart as well as thy own. 
It is not enough that thou carriest peace in thy heart to him, except
thou endeavourest that he may be at peace with thee also.  ‘If thou bring thy gift to the altar,
and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee,’ Matt. 5:23.

         Hierome
brings in the Christian here expostulat­ing his cause with God, why he will not
hear his prayer: Domine, quare nonvis susicpere munus me­um? quid ad me
attinet? non est in meâ potestate, si frater meus habet aliquid contra me—‘What
is it to me, Lord, that my brother is offended with me?  I cannot help that; wilt thou not
receive my gift for his fault?’  To
whom he brings God thus answering—Et quid dicis male serve?  Intelligo animum tuum? Nihil habes?  Amas eum?  Quare ergo salvari eum nonvis?  Vade, roga eum, ne ille contra te habeat ut salvari possit—‘What
is it, naughty servant, that thou sayest? I understand thy meaning.  What is it to thee?  Hast thou nothing against him?  Dost thou love him? Wherefore then
wouldst not thou save his soul?  Go
and beg of him to be at peace with thee, that thy brother’s soul may be
saved.’  I speak the more of this
particular, being sensible of what an hour, or rather age, of temptation we
live in, by reason of the sad dif­ferences of judgment among Christians, which
have distilled upon their affections so great a distaste one to another as
exulcerates them into wrath and bitter­ness; yea, a wonderful cure it will be,
if it can be prevented from ending in an irrecoverable consump­tion of love
among a great part of this generation —especially considering what malignity is
dropped into these church‑contentions by those national di­visions also that
have fallen in with them, and which drew so sad a sword among us, as for many
years could find no other sheath but the bowels of this then miserable
nation.  O what grudges,
animosities, and heart‑burnings have these two produced!  The sword, blessed be God! is at last
got into its scabbard of peace; but have we not cause to wish it had been
cleaner wiped when put up, and not such an implac­able spirit of revenge and
malice to be found remain­ing among many of us, as, alas! is too common to be
met with everywhere?  The storm
without us is over, blessed be God! but is t not too high within some of our
breasts?  The flood of national
calamities is as­suaged; but now the tide is down and gone, is there not a deal
of this filth—to name no other—uncharit­able jealousies, bitterness, wrath, and
revenge, left behind upon our hearts? 
Enough to breed another plague and judgment among us if a flood of
national repentance does not wash away what the sea of war and other confusions
have cast up!  But, if this were
all the mischief they are like to do us, our case is sad enough; they will hinder
our prayers.  For God will not
accept such sacrifices as are kindled with the fire of wrath.

         5.
Miscarriage.  The
Christian’s prayer may mis­carry for want of faith.  Prayer is the bow, the promise is the
arrow, and faith the hand which draws the bow, and sends this arrow with the
heart's message to heaven.  The bow
without the arrow is of no use, and the arrow without the bow as little worth;
and both without the strength of the hand, to no purpose. Neither the promise
without prayer, nor prayer with­out the promise, nor both without faith, avails
the Christian anything.  So that
what was said of the Israelites, that they ‘could not enter Canaan because of
unbelief;’ the same may be said of many of our prayers, they cannot enter
heaven with acceptation, because they are not put up in faith.  Now faith may be considered with a
respect to the person praying, or to the prayer put up.

 

[What it is to pray
in faith.]

 

         First
Requisite.  The person must be
a believer. But this is not enough.

         Second
Requisite.  There must be an act
of faith exerted in the prayer, as well as the habit of faith dwelling in
the person.  ‘What things soever ye
desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them,’ Mark 11:24.  If the thing be not to be found in the
promise that we desire, it is a sin to pray for it; if it be, it is a sin not
to believe, when we pray for it, and that no small one, because thereby we both
profane and ordinance and asperse the name of the great God.

         Question.  But what is it to pray in faith?

         Answer
1.  Negatively.  It is not to believe that the very
thing in specie—or in its proper kind, that we pray for, shall be always
given.  Christ prayed in faith and
was heard, Heb.
5.  He believed not the thing in kind to be
given neither was it; yet his prayer was answered.  Therefore, be sure thou learnest the right method of acting
thy faith in prayer, which must be taken from the nature of the promise thou
puttest in suit.  As water receives
its figure—round or square —from the vessel it is poured into; so our faith is
to be shaped by the promise.  If
that be absolute—as things necessary to salvation are—then thy faith may expect
the very thing promised; if otherwise, then thou art not to limit thy faith to
the thing itself, but expect money or moneyworth; health, or as good as health;
deliverance, or better than deliverance. 
An absolute faith on a conditional promise—without an immediate
revelation, which we must not look for—is fancy, not faith.  To commit a sin, not act a grace, this
is to be free on God's purse without a grant; for we put more in the conclusion
of our faith than is in the premises of the promise; and this is as bad
divinity as logic.

         Answer
2. Positively.  To pray in
faith is to ask of God, in the name of Christ, what he hath prom­ised,
relying on his power and truth for performance, without binding him up to
time, manner, or means.

         (1.)
We must ask what God hath promised, or else we choose for ourselves and
not beg; we subject God’s will to ours, and not ours to his; we forge a bond
and then claim it as debt, which is a horrible presumption!  He that is his own promiser must be his
own paymaster.

         (2.)
To pray in faith is required that we pray in Christ’s name.  As there can be no faith but on a promise,
so no promise can be claimed but in his name, because they are all both made to
him and performed for him.  They
are made to him, the cov­enant being struck with him: ‘In hope of eternal life,
which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world be­gan,’ Titus 1:2.  And there was none then ex­isting but
Christ to whom the promise could be made. So that, as the child claims his
estate in right of his father that purchased it; so we come to our right in the
promise, as heirs of and co‑heirs with Christ.  And as the promise was made to him, so it is performed for
him, because his blood shed was the condition of the obligation upon which God
acknowledged the debt to Christ, and bound himself to perform all the articles
of the covenant to his heirs’ orderly claiming them at his hands in his
name.  It is not therefore enough
boldly to urge God with a promise: ‘Pardon, Lord, for thou hast promised it;
grace and glory, for thou hast promised them;’ but we must, if we mean to lay
our plea legally—I mean according to the law of faith—plead for these under the
protection of his name.  Thus
Daniel, that holy man, laid the stress of his prayer on Christ: ‘Now therefore,
O our God, hear the prayer of thy servant, and his supplications, and cause thy
face to shine upon thy sanctuary that is desolate, for the Lord’s sake,’ Dan. 9:17.

         (3.)
To this praying in faith is required a relying on God, through Christ, for a
gracious answer.  Let the
former be done, and the creature fail in this, he prays not in faith, but takes
the name of God and Christ in vain. 
This act of relying is the taking hold on God in prayer, Isa. 64.  When mariners in a storm cast out their
anchor, and it comes home again with­out taking hold on the firm ground, so as
to stay the ship and bear it up against the violence of the waves, it gives
them no help.  So neither doth a
handless prayer that takes no hold on God.  Therefore you shall find that when a Christian speeds well
in prayer, his happy success is attributed, not to naked prayer, but as clothed
and empowered with this act of recum­bency upon God.  ‘They cried unto the Lord,’ II Chr. 13:14.  Now see, ‘The children of Judah
prevailed, because they relied upon the Lord God of their fathers,’ ver. 18.  He doth but lie in prayer that doth not
rely on God after praying.  What he
seems to give with one hand to God he takes from him with another, which is no
better than a mocking of God. By praying we pretend to expect good from him; by
not relying we blot this out and declare we look for no such matter.

         Now
this reliance of the soul hath a twofold way whereby it fastens on God like the
anchor’s double hook.

         (a.)
It takes hold on the power of God. 
Thus Christ in his agony ‘offered up prayers and supplica­tions with
strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death,’ Heb. 5:7.  In prayer we open our case to God,
declare how sinful, weak, shift­less creatures we are, and then we commit our
cause to God.  Now as none will put
that to another’s keeping which he thinks safe in his own hands; so neither
will any deliver it to another whose ability he is not first persuaded to
effect that which himself is unable to do.  See Eliphaz’s counsel to Job, ‘I would seek unto God, and
unto God would I commit my cause,’ Job 5:8.  As if he had said, ‘If I were in your case I will tell you
what course I would take, I would not look this way or that, but speedily haste
me to the throne of grace, and when once I had told God my very heart, I would
trouble myself no more, but commit my cause to him, and discharge my heart of
the burden of all its troublesome thoughts.’  But under what notion would he do all this?  The next words will tell us, ‘Unto God
would I commit my cause, which doeth great things and unsearchable; marvellous
things without number.’  First he
would bottom his faith on God as able to do great things; and then, leaving his
request lodged in the arms of such power, he doubted not but he should cast all
care away and enjoy the serenity of his mind whatever his condition was.  Indeed, this is the first stone faith
lays in her building.  And an error
in the foundation will make the whole house stand weak.  Be sure, therefore, thou layest this
bottom stone with thy greatest care. 
O how unbecoming is it to have a great God, and a little faith on this
great God!—a strong God, and a weak faith on his almighty power! Unbelief here
ravisheth and offereth violence to the very light of nature, for ‘his eternal
power and God­head’ are known by ‘the visible things’ of the creation, Rom 1:20.  What is not he able to do that could
make so goodly a fabric without materials, tools, or work­men?  Crucifige illud verbum potest ne?—obliterate
that word ‘Is he able?’  Away with
the question which so grates the ears of the Almighty: Can he pardon? Can he
purge?  What cannot he do that can
do what he will?

         (b.)
It takes hold on the faithfulness of God to perform the promise.  We are directed, in committing
ourselves to him, to eye his faithfulness: ‘as unto a faithful Creator,’ I Peter 4:19.  The saints’ faith hath been remarkable
in staying themselves on this, while yet the mercy they prayed for lay asleep
in its causes: ‘Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall
the vow be performed,’ Ps.
65:1.  See, he stands with his instrument
strung and tuned, ready to strike up and bring God in with the music of his
praise when he shall come with an answer to his prayer, not the least doubting
but that he shall use it upon that joyful occasion; for he speaks without ifs
and ands—‘Unto thee shall the vow be performed, O thou that hearest
prayer!’  And yet that good day was
not come; for even then he cries out, ‘Iniquities prevail against me!’ So, ‘I
know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and the right of
the poor,’ Ps.
140:12.  Why? how comes he so confi­dent?  ‘Surely the righteous shall give thanks
unto thy name,’ ver.
13.  As if he had said, ‘Thou hast a name
for a gracious and faithful God in thy promise, and this thou wilt never suffer
to be blotted by failing thy word.’ 
Christian, thou mayest venture all thou art worth on the public faith of
heaven.  ‘His words are pure as
silver tried seven times in a furnace.’ 
He that will not suffer a liar or covenant‑breaker to set foot on his
holy hill, will much less suffer any one thought of falseness or unfaithfulness
to enter into his own most holy heart.

         Question.  But how may I know when I thus act
faith in prayer?

 

[Four rules whereby
to know if we

act faith in prayer
or no.]

 

         (1.)
Rule.  We may know if we
have acted faith by the serenity and composure of our spirits after prayer.  Faith may live in a storm, but it will
not suf­fer a storm to live in it. 
As faith rises, so the blus­tering wind of discontented troublesome
thoughts go down.  In the same
proportion that there is faith in the heart there is peace also.  They are joined to­gether, ‘quietness
and confidence,’ Isa.
30:15:
‘In re­turning and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence shall
be your strength.’  Therefore
called ‘peace in believing,’ Rom. 15:13. 
Even where it is weakest it will not let the unquietness of the heart
pass without a chiding.  ‘Why art
thou disquieted, O my soul! trust still in God,’ Ps. 42:5, 11.  What! soul no sooner off thy knees, but
clamorous!  Hast not thou made thy
moan to a God able to help thee, and will not that ease thee? Faith disburdens
the soul in prayer of that which oppresses it; whereas the unbe­lieving soul
still carries about it the cause of its trouble, because it had not strength to
cast forth it sorrows, and roul its cares upon God in the duty. Christian, dost
thou carry away the same burden on thy back from prayer which thou didst bring
to it? surely thou didst want faith to lift it off thy shoulder. Had faith been
there, and that been active and lively, it would have bestowed this elsewhere,
and brought thee away with a light heart: as Hannah, who rose from praying ‘to
eat, and her countenance was no more sad;’ and as Christ, who kneeled down with
as sorrowful a heart as ever any, but comes off with a holy courage, to go and
meet his approaching death, and his bloody enemies now on the way to attack
him.  ‘Rise,’ saith he to his
disciples, ‘let us be going, behold he is at hand that doth betray me,’ Matt. 26:46. May it not
put us to the blush to think that we could come less satisfied from God’s
presence than we do sometimes from a sorry man’s?  If you were poor, and had a rich friend that bids you send
your children to him, and he will provide for them; would not this ease your
mind of all your cares and distracting thoughts concerning their
maintenance?  And doth not God
promise more that this comes to when he bids us ‘be careful for nothing; but in
every thing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be
made known unto God?’

         (2.)
Rule.  Dost thou continue
praying even when God continues to deny?  An unbelieving heart may have some mettle at hand, but will
be sure to jade in a long journey. 
Faith will throw in the net of prayer again and again, as long as God
commands and the promise encourageth. 
The greyhound hunts by sight, when he cannot see his game he gives over
running; but the true hound by scent, he hunts over hedge and ditch though he
sees not the hare he pursues all the day long.  An unbelieving heart, may be, drawn out, upon some visible
probabilities and sensible hopes of a mercy coming, to pray, but when these are
out of sight his heart fails him; but faith keeps the scent of the promise and
gives not over the chase.

         (3.)
Rule.  Dost thou stint
God, or canst thou trust him to answer thy prayer in his own way without thy
prescription?  When we deal
with a man whose ability or faithfulness we have in doubt, then we la­bour to
make sure of him by tying him up to our terms.  But if we stand assured of their power and truth, we leave
them to themselves.  Thus the
patient sends for the physician, desires his help, but leaves him to write his
own bill.  The merchant sends over
his goods to his factor, and relies on him to make such returns as his wisdom
tells him will come to the best market. 
Thus the believing soul, when he hath opened his heart to God in prayer,
resigns himself to the goodness, wisdom, and faithfulness of God to re­turn an
answer: ‘Remember me, O my God,’ said Nehemiah, ‘concerning this also, and
spare me ac­cording to the greatness of thy mercy,’ Neh. 13:22.  See here, this good man makes bold to
be God’s remem­brancer, but dares not be his counsellor or prescriber. He
remits the shaping of the answer to ‘the greatness of his mercy.’  Hence it follows, that whatever way God
cometh in, the believing soul bids him welcome.

         Doth
he pray for health, and miss of that? yet he blesseth God for support under
sickness.  Doth he pray for his
children, and they notwithstanding prove a cross? yet he finds an answer
another way, and satisfies himself with it.  After many a prayer that David had put up no doubt for his
family, we find him entertaining an answer to those prayers with a composed
spirit, though they came not in at the fore door, buy having mercy in the
letter: ‘Though my house be not so with God; yet he hath made with me an
everlasting covenant,’ &c.; and this, he tells us, is ‘all his desire,’ II Sam. 23:5.  Indeed, a believer cannot miss his
desires, ‘He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him,’ Ps. 145:19.  Because they disown those desires which
clash with God’s will.  Who could
pray more fervently for their children than Job did for his? He was with God
for them every day; but, after all his religious care of them, he meets with
heavy tidings, and hears them to be made a sacrifice by death for whom he had
offered up so many sacrifices to God; yet he doth not foolishly charge God, or
say it was in vain that he prayed: no, that ointment was not lost the savour
whereof was poured into his own soul, from the posture of which we might read a
gracious answer, in the supporting grace that enabled him to love and bless God
over the gravestone of his slain children.

         (4.)
Rule.  By the soul’s
comporting itself to­wards the means used for obtaining the mercy prayed for.

         (a.)  If thou prayedst in faith, it will set
thee to use other means besides prayer.  Mark how the apos­tle joins these together, ‘Not slothful in
business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord; rejoicing in hope; patient in
tribulation; continuing instant in prayer,’ Rom. 12:11, 12.  As faith useth her wings of prayer to fly to heaven; so she
useth her feet of duty and obedi­ence, with which she walks and bestirs herself
on earth.

         (b.)  Faith will make thee, as use means, so
to be choice of the means thou usest for the obtaining what thou bespeakest
of God in prayer.  Faith is a
working grace, but it will be set on work by none but God.  Am I in God’s way, saith faith? Is this
the means he hath appointed?  If it
be not, away he turns from it, dis­daining to work with any of the devil's
tools.  God can never answer my
prayer, saith the believer, without the help of my sin.  If riches be good for me, I need not be
at the cost to purchase them with a lie or a cheat.  If health be a mercy, he can send me it, though I advise not
with the devil’s doctors.  If joy
and comfort, there is no need to take down the devil’s music.  If times be evil, he can hide me
without run­ning under the skirt of this great man and that by base flattery
and dissimulation.  When Ezra had
com­mitted himself and his company to God—now on their march towards
Jerusalem—by a solemn day of fasting and prayer, and had made a holy boast of
his God, what he would do for them that seek him, he thought it unbeseeming his
professed faith, and also dishonourable to his God, whom he had so magnified in
the hearing of the Persian king, to beg armed troops for a convoy to them in
their way, lest his faith should be brought into suspicion for an empty bra­vado
and groundless confidence: ‘I was ashamed to require of the king a band of
soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way: because we had
spoken unto the king, saying, The hand of our God is upon all them for good
that seek him;’ Ezra
8:22.

         (c.)  If thou actest faith in prayer, thy
faith will not only make thee choice of the means thou usest, but curious
and careful in using the means that God chooseth for thee.  Thou wilt be afraid lest it should
stand in God’s light, by stealing thy confidence in him to trust in it.  Faith will teach thee to use means as
God’s ordinance, but rely on God to bless it.  While faith’s hand is on the plow, her eye is to heaven. Annus
non ager facit fructum—the influences of heaven, not the tillage of the
husband, make it a fruit­ful year. 
Sometimes the physician appoints a powder to be taken in wine or
beer.  Now it is not the beer or
wine that does the cure, but the powder, which they are only used to convey and
carry into the stomach. Thus mercy is handed over to us by the blessing of God
in the use of means, yet think not the means do it, but the blessing of God
mingled with it and infused into it.

         (d.)  If thou actest faith in prayer, as thou
wilt be careful to improve means when God provides them, so thou wilt not
suspend thy faith when God denies them.  The believing soul dares not trust to the means when he hath
them, therefore he dares not dis­trust God when he wants them.  Faith knows, though God useth means,
yet he needs none.  The sun and
showers are the means he useth for the growth of the grass and herbs; yet he
made these to grow out of the earth before there was sun or rain, Gen. 1:11.  Plough­ing and sowing are the ordinary
means whereby man is provided with bread; but he fed Israel with bread without
their pains and husbandry.  Ships
[are] the means to waft us over the seas; but God carried Israel through the
Red Sea without ship or boat.  May
be times are hard, and thou art poor; thy charge is great, and thy comings in
little; with the widow in the prophet, thou art making the last cake of the
little meal that is left.  To
reason and sense thou must either beg, steal, or die.  Canst thou now, upon praying to thy God, wait upon his
promise which tells thee, ‘verily, thou shalt be fed,’ Ps. 37:3; and on his
providence, which records his care of the sparrows on purpose to assure us he
will much more provide for his children? 
Or, at least, dost thou chide thy heart for its distrustful fears after
praying, charging it to hope in God, to whom thou hast made thy moan? Truly, if
thy heart hath not some hold on God after duty to stay it, more than before in
this thy strait; either thou hast no faith, or if thou hast faith, thou didst
not act it in that prayer.  True
faith will either expel these dejections of heart, or at least protest against
them.

 

[Satan would hinder
the success of prayers,

by preventing the
saint’s belief that they were heard.]

 

         Second
Way of Hinderance.  Now we come
to the second stratagem that Satan useth to hinder the success of the
Christian’s prayer, which I called a partial hinderance or miscarriage thereof,
when the prayer itself is not lost—which comes to pass only when it finds not
acceptance with God —but when the Christian doth not believe on earth that
his prayer is heard in heaven, though indeed it is.  By his ques­tioning thereof, however,
he loseth the revenue of that present peace which otherwise would be paid unto
him from the expectation of its certain return with a joyful answer.  As a merchant that gives his ship for
castaway, when indeed it is safe and richly laden (only stays for a fair wind);
he not knowing or believing this, puts himself to as much trouble and sorrow as
if it were in truth as he feared. 
Fancy and imagination, even when without ground and reason, are able to
produce real effects and sad consequences in the minds of men.  The false news of Joseph’s death caused
as much sorrow to old Jacob, yea more, than if he had seen him laid out, and
had followed him to the grave.  The
jailer, from a fear his prisoners were gone, and he accountable for them, had
fore­done himself, by falling on his own sword, if Paul had not seasonably
cried out, ‘Do thyself no harm, for we are all here.’

         And
truly our unbelieving fears have no less power upon our hearts.  They rob the Christian of the joy of
his life—and man is but a sour piece of clay when that is gone.  It is not praying, but believing prayer
heard, that will make a glad heart and a cheer­ful countenance.  Hannah often prayed; she was ac­quainted
with the work many years, yet never had the burden of her spirit taken off till
she had faith she should speed. 
Yea, moreover, they [unbelieving fears] weaken the spirit of prayer.  He that expects little from prayer,
will not be much in prayer.  That
trade is best tended which it is hoped will pay a man best for his pains in
it.  ‘Who is there among you,’
saith God, ‘that would shut the doors for nought? nei­ther do ye kindle fire on
mine altar for nought,’ Mal.
1:10.  The husbandman throws his seed freely,
be­cause he sows in hope; and his preciousest seed on his fattest soil, because
there he looks to find it again with the greatest increase.  This made David like praying work so
well that he will never leave it: ‘I have prayed, and the Lord hath heard, therefore
will I call upon him as long as I live.’ 
As a merchant, finding his sweet gain come trouling in, converts his
whole estate into stock; so David devotes himself wholly to prayer: ‘For my
love they are my adver­saries,’ %-/% *"!$, Ps. 109:4, ‘but I was prayer.’  This was the only weapon I lift up for
my defence against all their darts. 
Whereas, unbelief betrays the soul unto many uncomely thoughts of God,
which reflect sadly upon his name, so as to weaken his reputation in the
creature's thoughts, and bring him either to a disuse of this duty, or hopeless
performance of it, and this Satan loves alife.  When a merchant thinks his goods miscarry, he grows
presently jealous of his fac­tor, questioning his care, faithfulness, or
ability to despatch his business. 
Such whisperings we shall hear, if we listen to our unbelieving hearts
sometimes, when our prayers make not so short an quick a voyage as we
desire.  It was a high charge that
Job brought against God—though he lived to see he had little reason to do it;
yea, afterward charged himself for charging God—‘I cry unto thee, and thou dost
not hear me: I stand up, and thou regardest me not,’ Job 30:20.  This holy man was now as deep in God’s
books, and as great a favourite with him, as ever; yet so far had Satan wound
into him, as to make him listen to those false reports which he brought unto
him of God—taking the advantage of his present cloudy providence to colour his
calumnies, insomuch that he began to give credit unto this liar.  Now if this may become a stone of
offence to Job, how much more mayest thou fear dashing thy foot against it? Let
it be thy care to countermine Satan in this his spiteful plot against God and
thee.  Surely it should not be a
little matter that makes thee throw up thy prayers, and give away so rich an
adventure as thou hast swim­ming in this bottom.  Esau hath the brand of a ‘pro­fane person,’ for so cheaply
parting with his inherit­ance.  If
thou beest a believer, thou art an heir of promise, and, amongst promises, this
is not the least —that what thou askest in Christ’s name, be­lieving, thou
shalt receive.  Now, it is too like
Esau’s profane­ness to part with this piece of thy heritage—which thou canst
not do without impeaching the faithfulness of God that gave thee an estate in
the promise.

         We
highly commend Job for his heroic resolu­tion at another time: ‘God forbid that
I should justify you: till I die I will not remove mine integrity from me,’ Job 27:5.  How much more shouldst thou say to
Satan, ‘God forbid that I should justify thee, thou wicked fiend, or thy false
charge against my God; I will hold fast his integrity and faithfulness till I
die.’ Surely Daniel, who ventured his life rather than not pray, would have
parted with a thousand lives rather than have given is prayers for lost, and
thereby have blotted the good name of God, whose faithfulness stands bound to
return every prayer of faith with a gracious answer into the saint’s bosom.

         But,
the more to fortify you against this design of Satan, let us inquire into a few
of those arguments with which Satan—abusing the Christian’s credulity —leads
him into this temptation, if not absolutely to conclude, yet unbelieving to
dispute and question it in his heart, whether his prayer be heard or no.  I shall reduce them to three
heads.  First. The first
argument by which he scruples the Christian, and nourishes his unbelieving
fears, is taken from those sinful infirmities that cleave to his person and
prayer. Second. Another argument is taken from the deport­ment of God to
him in and after prayer.  Third.
The last is taken from the common providence of God, that dispenseth the same
things to the wicked without praying, which the saints receive praying.

 

[Satan’s arguments to make the
believer

doubt whether his
prayer is heard.]

 

         Argument
1.  The first argument by which
Satan would make the Christian out of love with himself and his duty, is taken
from those sinful infirmities cleaving to both—his person and prayer alike.  There­by he would quash the saint’s
hope of any favourable reception that his prayer hath found in heaven. What!
thy stammering prayers make music in God’s ear! Will the Lord foul his fingers
with thy besmeared duties?  If thou
wert a Samuel or Daniel, and couldst claim thy place among those worthies that
are re­nowned for the eminent service they have done God in their generation,
then thou mightest hope to have the ear of God to thy suit; but thou, alas! art
a puny stripling, a froward child, in whom there is more sin than grace to be
found, and dost thou think to be heard? Truly, though this argument weighs
little, hav­ing no countenance from the tenor of the covenant, whose privileges
are not impropriated to a few favour­ites, more eminent in grace than their
brethren, but stand open to the whole family—it being ‘a common salvation,’ and
‘like precious faith,’ that all the saints partake of; yet it is the great
bugbear with which many of them are scared.

         A
word or two therefore to arm thee against this argument.  Only this premised—which I must take
for granted—that these sinful infirmities are lament­ed and not cockered by
thee—that indeed would turn infirmity into presumption; as also that
thou neglect­est not to apply the most effectual means for their cure—though,
as in hereditary diseases, all the physic thou takest will not here perfectly
rid thee of them: this granted, for thy comfort know thy prayers are not so
offensive to God as to thyself. 
Thy prayers pass such a refining in Christ’s mediation, that their ill
scent is taken away.

         Doth
thy scruple arise from the sinful failings of thy daily conversation and
Christian course?  To re­move this,
ob­serve how the Spirit of God, when he in­stanceth in Elias as a person whose
prayers are ex­ceedingly prevalent with God, doth not describe him by the transcendency
of his grace above others, but by his infirmities like unto them: ‘Elias was a
man sub­ject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earn­estly that it might
not rain: and it rained not,’ James 5:17. 
As if God should say, Were I so curious in my scrutiny, as you fear,
Elias’s prayer would have been stopped, for he was not without his
infirmities.  How many failings do
we find in David’s unseemly carriage before Achish, for which he was turned out
of the king’s presence under the notion of a madman?  Yet his prayer at that time, when he betrayed so many
unbelieving fears, found favour with God. 
‘I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my
fears,’ Ps.
34:4.  Read the title, and you shall find it,
‘A Psalm of David, when he changed his behaviour before Abimelech; who drove
him away, and he departed.’

         Are
they the sinful infirmities which escape thee in the duty of prayer?  Canst thou find more in any prayer thou
puttest up, than were in the disciples’, for one so short?—where they exercised
so little faith that Christ calls it ‘no faith,’ Mark 4:40.  ‘Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no
faith?’  Yea, they pray to Christ,
and chide him in the same breath, ‘Master, carest thou not that we perish?’  Yet Christ could find sincerity hid,
like Saul, in this stuff of their infirmities, and granted their request.  It is true he rebuked them, but it is
as true that he rebuked the wind also. 
God’s promise for hearing of prayer shall not be made void by the
saint’s weakness in prayer. Yea, for thy further comfort, know, that the less
pow­er these have to shake or disturb thy spirit in expect­ing a gracious
answer, the more kindly God will take it at thy hand.  ‘Abraham,’ it is said, ‘believed, not considering his own
body, or the deadness of Sarah’s womb;’ and for this was highly commended,
because he thereby did signally glorify the power of God, to which he believed
their bodily indisposition should not be any obstacle.  Truly thus it will be highly pleas­ing
to God, if thou canst rely—staggering not at thy spiritual indispositions, and
that deadness of thy heart which rises up as a great objection in thy thoughts
against the success of thy prayer; for by this thou givest Christ both the
honour of his death, by which he purchased this free access for thy weak
prayers to the throne of grace, and also of his inter­cession, which clarifies
them from all their sinful mixtures.

         Argument
2.  Satan draws his argument
from God’s deportment to the soul in and after prayer.  In this argument there are three things
he commonly in­sists upon—by them to create trouble to the Chris­tian’s
thoughts.  (1.) His silence,
which he would have the Christian interpret to be God’s slighting or dis­regarding
of him and his prayer.  (2.) His frowns,
from which he would have him conclude neither he nor his duty are
accepted.  (3.) His not giving
the mercy in kind; and this he tells the Christian amounts to a denial.

 

[What in God’s
deportment to a Christian

after prayer Satan
falsifies.]

 

         (1.)
His silence after prayer. 
As wicked men sometimes sin, and God keeps silence, which makes them
bold to think God approves of them and their way; so, sometimes a gracious soul
prays, and God holds his peace here also; and the poor soul begins to fear that
neither his person nor his duty are approved of God.  Now Satan, knowing what thoughts are like to rise in the
Christian’s own heart, falls in and joins issue with the Christian’s bosom
enemy, labouring to confirm him in these his unbelieving fears.

         To
disentangle and help thee out of this brier, take these directions:—

         (a.)  Learn to distinguish betwixt God’s
hearing and his answering the saint’s prayer.  Every faithful prayer is heard, and makes an acceptable
report in God’s ear as soon as it is shot; but God doth not always speedily
answer it.  The father, at the
reading of his son’s letter—which comes haply on some begging errand—likes the
motion; his heart closeth with it, and a grant is there passed; but he takes
his own time to send his despatch, and let his son know this.  Princes have their books of
remembrance, wherein they write the names of their favourites whom they intend
to prefer, haply some years before their gracious purpose opens itself to them.  Morde­cai’s name stood in Ahasuerus’
book some while be­fore his honour was conferred.  Thus God records the names of his saints and their
prayers.  ‘The Lord hearkened, and
heard it, and a book of remem­brance was written before him for them that
feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name,’ Mal. 3:16.  But they hear not of God in his
providential answer, haply, a long time after.  Abraham prays for a child, and is heard, but how many years
interpose before he hath him in his arms? 
Truly so many that he goes into Hagar—partly by his wife’s counsel and
his own weakness—to obtain that with a by‑blow for which God himself had
undertaken.

         Take
heed, Christian, thou beest not led into this temptation, to question whether
God hears thee, because thou hearest not from him presently.  Be pa­tient, and thou shalt find, the
longer a mercy goes be­fore its delivery, the more per­fect it will come forth
at last.  God gave a speedy answer
to Abra­ham for his son Ishmael, ‘O that Ishmael might live!’  ‘I have heard thee,’ saith God
concerning Ishmael, Gen.
17:20.
Indeed he flourished and spread into a great nation before Isaac's stem almost
budded.  What a small number was
the family of Jacob at their going down into Egypt! but when the date of God’s
bond was near expiring, and the time of the promise drew nigh, then God paid
interest for his stay.  None gain
more at the throne of grace than those who trade for time, and can forbear the
payment of a mercy longest.

         (b.)  Consider, when thou findest the deepest
silence in God’s providence concerning the thing prayed for, then thou hast
a loud answer in the prom­ise. 
Say not therefore, ‘Who shall ascend to heaven, to bring thee
intelligence whether thy prayer hath got safe thither, and had favourable
audience in God’s ear?’  God
himself hath saved thee this labour: the promise will satisfy thee, which
assures thee that if it be duly qualified it cannot find the heart of God shut
against it.  ‘The effectual fervent
prayer of a righteous man availeth much,’ James 5:16.  So assured have the saints been of this, that they, before
any inkling from providence hath been heard—to bring them the news of a mercy
coming—have taken up joy upon the credit of the naked promise, and feasted
themselves with the hopes of what they expected, but had not yet received at
the cost and charge of God’s faithfulness, with which the promise is sealed,
‘In God I will praise his word,’ Ps. 56:4.  Mark the phrase. 
He had not as yet the desired mercy, only a word of promise that it
should come.  Now, considering the
power and truth of God the promiser, he is as merry as if he were put in
possession of it, and pays his praises before God performs the promise.

         (2.)
The second thing which Satan gathers from God's deportment towards the
Christian, thereby to bring the hearing of his prayer into question in his
anxious thoughts, is, his frowns against the Christian. It cannot be
denied but sometimes a dear saint of God may go away from duty with an aching
heart, by reason of the sad impressions of an angry God left upon his
spirit.  And when thus it fares
with the Christian, Satan’s time is come, he thinks, to lead him into this
temptation, by persuading him he may read what entertainment his prayer had at
God’s hands in the language of his countenance and his carriage towards him.  If God, saith he, had heard thy prayer,
would he handle thee thus?  No
sure; he would rather have taken thee up into his arms, and kissed thee with
the kisses of his mouth, than thus trample thee under is feet.  Thou shouldst have had darts of love
shot from his pitiful eye, to imitate the purposes of his grace, and not arrows
headed with his wrath, to stick in thy soul, and thus drink up thy very
spirits.  Can these be the wounds
of a friend?—this the deportment that means thee well?  This was the temptation which ruffled
Job’s thoughts, and embit­tered his spirit, Job 9:17.  He could not believe God answered his prayer, ‘because he
broke with his tempest.’  As if
God’s mercy came always in the still voice, and never in the whirlwind!  Now in this case take this double word
of counsel.

         Counsel
(a).  Inquire whether this
tempest comes to find any Jonah in thy ship; whether it takes thee
sinning, or soaking in any past sin unrepented; or whether thy conscience,
diligently listened to, doth witness that thou art sincere in thy course,
though compassed with many failings. 
If it overtakes thee in a runaway voyage, with Jonah, or rambling course
with the prodigal from thy father’s house, then indeed thou hast reason to
question, yea it is beyond all question, that an acceptable prayer in this
posture cannot drop from thy lips. 
What! run from God, and then send to him thy prayers!  This is to desire mercy to spend upon
thy lust.  But if, upon thy
faithful search, thou findest this storm overtakes thee in the way of duty and
exercise of thy sincerity, like the tem­pest that met the disciples at sea—when
at Christ’s command they launched forth—then be not discour­aged.  For it is ordinary with God to put on
the dis­guise of an angry countenance, and to use rough lang­uage, when his
heart is resolved upon ways of mercy, and mediates love to his people.  Jacob, you know, wrestled hard and long
before victory inclined to his side. 
And the woman of Canaan was kicked away like a dog with harsh language,
who at last was owned of Christ for a dear child, and sent away to her heart’s
content.  Sincerity needs fear no
ill from God.  This very
consideration kept Job’s head as another time above water, Job 16:12.  There we find God taking him by the
neck, shaking him as it were to pieces, and setting him up for his mark.  But, ver. 17, this upheld his troubled spirit—that
all this befell him walking in obedience—‘Not for any injustice in mine hands:
also my prayer is pure.’  Wherefore
he rears up his confi­dence, ‘Also now, behold, my witness is in heaven, and my
record is on high.  My friends
scorn me: but mine eye poureth out tears unto God,’ ver. 19, 20.  The holy man was not, for all this,
scared from the throne of grace, but still looked on God, though with tears in
his eyes, expecting good news at last after so much bed.  And we have warrant to do the
same.  ‘If our heart condemn us
not, then have we confidence toward God,’ I John 3:21.  And this brings me to the second word of counsel I have to
give thee.

         Counsel
(b).  Inquire whether under
these frowns from God there be yet a spirit of prayer working in thee.  Haply thou canst not deny but that thy
heart is rather stirred up from these to lament after the Lord with more
restless sighs and groans, to pray with more feeling and fervency, than driven
away from duty.  The spirit of
prayer upheld in thee may assure of these two things:—

         [1.]  That the cloud of anger which seems to
sit on God’s brow is not in his heart.  It is but a thin veil, through which thy faith might see the
working of his bowels towards thee. 
The presence of the Spirit of God at work thus in a soul cannot stand
with his real anger.  If his wrath
were up, this in thee would be down. 
Thou shouldst have him soon calling back this his ambassador of peace, at
least suspending and withdrawing his assistance.  When that sad breach was made between God and David in the
matter of Uriah, David’s heart was presently out of tune; his ‘right hand had
forgot its cunning,’ and the spirit of prayer had received a sad damp in his
heart.  Where is the psalm to be
found that was penned by David in that interregnum, as I may so say, of his
grace?  I do not say he did never
pray all the time he lay soaking in that sin; but those prayers were not fit to
be joined with the holy breathings of that spirit which acted him before his
fall and after his recovery.  And
therefore, good man, when by repentance he came to himself, like one recovering
out of a dangerous sickness —which had for a time taken away his senses—he be­gins
to feel himself weak, and how much the Spirit of grace was by his sin enfeebled
in him, which makes him so vehemently beg that God would ‘renew a right spirit
in him,’ and ‘not take his Holy Spirit from him,’ Ps. 51:10, 11.  The Spirit is so choice and peculiar a
mercy, that if thou canst find lively actings of his grace in thee—and where
are they more sensibly felt than in prayer, helping the soul to sighs and
groans which cannot be uttered?—thou canst not in reason think God is not
friends with thee, though it were at present as dark as midnight with thy soul.

         [2.]  It may assure thee that his ear is
open to thy cry when his face is hid from thine eye.  For, con­sider but who this Spirit is
that thus helps thee in prayer, and furnisheth thee with all thy spiritual
ammunition with which thou so pliest and batterest the throne of grace.  Is he not one that knows the mind of
God? and that would not have a hand in that petition which should not be
welcome to heaven? Having therefore this assistance from the Spirit, doubt not
thy acceptance with the Father.  In
a word, the Spirit that helps thee to thy groans and sighs in prayer is no
other than that God thou prayest to; and will God deny himself?  This I conceive part, if not the
principal part, of the scripture’s meaning, ‘I said not unto the seed of Jacob,
Seek ye me in vain,’ Isa.
45:19.  That is, whenever I stir up a soul to
pray, and empower him with my Spirit to perform it feelingly, fervently, and
after a holy manner, it is always to purpose.  God never said thus to any, ‘Seek ye me in vain.’

         (3.)
The third thing from which Satan takes his advan­tage to breed scruples in the
Christian’s mind concerning the acceptance of his prayer, is the denial of
mercy in kind which is prayed for. 
We are prone enough to have such thoughts ourselves, and Satan will not
be wanting to feed any bad humour that is stirring in us.  Or, if our hearts seem pacified with
this dealing of God, he hath his ways and wiles to conjure up this evil spirit
of discontent and unbelief. On this errand he sent Job’s wife, to make him
think and speak evil of God: ‘Dost thou still retain thy in­tegrity?’  As if she had said, ‘What! art thou at
thy old work?—still praying and praising God?  Dost thou not see how much he regards thee, or thy serving of
him?  What hast thou got by all thy
devotion?  Is not thy estate
gone?—thy children slain and buried in one grave, and thyself left a poor
loathsome cripple? —thy life serv­ing for nothing but to make thee feel thy
present misery and feed on thy past crosses?’

         Indeed,
it requires a good insight into the nature of the promises, and the divers ways
God takes to ful­fil them, to enable us to spell an answer out of a de­nial of
the thing we pray for.  Yet, such a
‘good under­standing have all they that do his command­ments,’ Ps. 111:10.  They can clear God and justify his
faithfulness in all his dealings, though, when he comes to answer their
prayers, he chooseth not to enter in at that door which they set open in their
own thoughts and hopes for him, nor treads in the very steps of their express
desires.  The whole psalm con­tains
a testimony given to the faithfulness of God in his providential works, at
which, though a carnal cur­sory eye—from the mys­teries hid therein—is
scandalized and takes offence, yet the gracious soul, by his more curious
observance of and inquiry into them, finds a sweet harmony between them and the
prom­ise, and therefore con­cludes, ‘The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
wis­dom: a good understand­ing have all they that do his commandments: his
praise endureth for ever.’  They,
having a key to God’s character, can read the hand of his providence, and so
are able to praise him —knowing him faithful—when others are ready to curse
him.

         But,
to help thee out or keep thee from falling into this temptation, thou art in
the first place to con­sider what mercy it is that God denies thee.  Is it not of that sort of blessings
which are not necessary unto thy happiness as a saint?  Such all temporal mercies are.  The kingdom of God consists not in meat
and drink.  Thou wilt find an
absolute denial for no other; he hath bid us take no denial for his love and
favour, grace and glory: ‘Seek the Lord, and his strength: seek his face
evermore,’ Ps.
105:4—that
is, be not put off for these, but live and die at God’s door till he brings
this alms to thee.  Well, we will
take this for granted it is a temporal mercy thou art denied. Now, when thou
art tempted to question the love of God, or acceptance of thy prayer, let me
desire thee to weigh this threefold
consideration.

         Consideration
(a).  Consider how ill God
may take this at thy hand; and that in a double respect.  [1.] That thou dost suspect his love
on so slight and trivial a matter as the temporal enjoyments of this life are,
which he thinks are not worth enough to be put into the promise any otherwise
than they are subservi­ent to the spiritual and eternal blessings of the coven­ant:
‘Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righ­teousness; and all these things
shall be added unto you,’ Matt.
6:33—that
is, as you need them.  He casts
them into the other more grand blessings, as a trades­man would do thread or
paper, or a skein of silk, into a parcel of rich commodities that a customer
buys of him.  Suppose a child
should ask his father for money to buy some toy or trifle that pleaseth his
green head, but the father denies him the thing.  If, now, the child should go and make proclamation in the
open street, to the disgrace of his father, that his father did neither love
nor regard him—though he wants neither food nor raiment—would this be well
taken at the child’s hand?  This
thou dost, Christian, in this case, though thou thinkest not so much; and hath
not thy heavenly Father more reason to question thy love for taking away his
good name, than thou to suspect his for his denial?  But again, [2.] He may take it ill that thou hast aspersed
his wisdom.  Is there no way
but this for the wise God to show his love and answer thy prayer? Cannot he
deny health and give patience?—take away thy estate and turn it into
contentation?—teaching thee to be abased, and to bless God thou art made
low.  He that will make thee so
happy in heaven, where few of this world’s enjoyments shall be seen, cannot he
make thy life comfortable on earth without some of them?

         Consideration
(b).  Consider how thou
prayedst when thou didst meet with this denial.  Didst thou pray peremptorily and absolutely, or
conditionally, with submission to the will of God?  If peremptorily, thou wert beside the rule, and art the
cause why thy prayer came back without its errand.  God will not hear, or bear, commanding prayers.  He that must have a temporal mercy, if
he gets it, he may have a spiritual curse, but is sure to have a temporal
cross. So Delilah proved to Samson, who would not take his parents’ counsel,
but must have her whatever comes of it: ‘Get her for me; for she pleaseth me
well,’ Judges
14:3.  But he paid dearly for his choice.  May be such an employment pleaseth thee
well.  Thy carnal heart is in love
with it; and that sets the a praying inordin­ately for it.  Alas! poor creature, if thou hadst it,
what wouldst thou do with it?  Thou
wouldst fondly lay thy head in its lap and let it rock thy grace asleep, and
then betray thee into the hand of some sin and judg­ment!  But, if thou sayest that thou prayedst
with a submissive spirit, on condition it liked God as well as thyself; if so,
why then dost thou now recant thy prayer, seeing God hath declared his will
that it is not good for thee to have thy desire?  Wilt thou not be determined by him to whom thou didst refer
thyself? Hast thou not reason to think that God takes the best way for
thee?  There is never a prayer put
up but God doth, as it were, weigh and ponder it, and then his love sets his
wisdom on work to make such a return as may be most for his own glory and his
child’s good. Now, it being the product of such infinite wisdom and love, thou
oughtest to acquiesce in it, yea to praise God for it.  Thus did David in a great strait, ‘O my
God, I cry in the daytime, and thou hearest not,’ Ps. 22:2.  Well, what hears God from him now he
hears nothing from God (as to the deliverance prayed for)? No murmuring nor
cavilling at God’s proceedings —nay, he hears the quite contrary; for he
justifies and praises God, ‘But thou art holy, O thou that inhabit­est the
praises of Israel,’ ver.
3.

         Consideration
(c).  Observe whether thou
canst not gather something from the manner of God’s de­nying the thing
prayed for, which may sweeten it to thee.  Haply thou shalt find he denies thee, but it is with a
smiling countenance, and ushers it in with some expression of grace and favour
that may assure thee his denial proceeds not from displeasure.  As you would do with a dear friend,
who, may be, comes to borrow a sum of money of you—lend it you dare not,
because you see plainly it is not for his good. But, in giving him the denial,
lest he should misinter­pret it, as proceeding from want of love and respect,
you therefore preface it in with some kind of language of you hearty affection
to him, as that you love him, and therefore deny him, and shall be ready to do
for him more than that comes too. 
Thus God sometimes wraps up his denials in such sweet sugared intima­tions
of his love as prevent all jealousies from arising in the hearts of his
people.  When David was denied to
build a temple for God, as was in his heart to do, God gave him a large
testimony of his affection, how highly he accepted his good-will therein.  Though he should not build a temple for
him, yet his desire was so kindly taken that God would build a house for him
that should last forever.

         Thus,
sometimes a faithful minister prays earn­estly that God would bless his labours
to the convert­ing of his people, and is denied; yet intimations of God’s love
to his person are dropped, with a promise that, however, ‘his reward is with
the Lord.’  So that his prayer,
though denied as to them, is returned with peace into his own bosom.  Another prays passionate­ly, ‘O that I
might see Jerusalem a quiet habita­tion, 
and that truth and peace might flourish in his days!’  This, may be, is not granted, because
his desire antedates the period which God hath fixed in his pur­pose for the
fulfilling of his promise to his church: but he withal manifests his love to
him, and expresseth how highly he resents[4] his love to
the church.  Thus God did by
Daniel, to whom an angel was sent to let him know what kind entertainment his
prayer had, and that he was a man ‘greatly beloved of God,’ Dan. 9:21.  So in temporal mercies.  Haply thou art plead­ing with God for
deliverance out of this trouble and that affliction, and it is denied thee, but
a message [is] with the denial that recompenseth it double.  May be some sweet illapses of his love
he drops into thy bosom, or assurance of seasonable succours that shall be sent
in to enable thee to charge through them with faith and victory.  So God dealt by Paul, ‘My grace is
sufficient for thee.’  I hope now
thou wilt not say thy prayer is lost. 
When Saul sought his father’s asses, was he not shrewdly hurt to find a
kingdom instead of them?  The holy
women that went to the sepulchre to anoint the body of Jesus with their spices,
did not lose their labour though they found him risen.  Were they, thinkest thou, sorry for
that?  What are all the enjoy­ments
of the world to the spiritual mercies and com­fort of the promises which thou
findest in thy atten­dance on God? 
Not so much as the dead body of our risen Saviour.  Thou findest not some dead
creature-comfort, but thou meetest with embraces from a living God.

         Argument
3.  The third and last thing
that Satan abuseth the Christian with, to make him doubtful of the acceptance
of his prayer, and also to question, when a mercy is given in after prayer,
whether it comes as a gracious answer to it or no, is taken from the common
providence of God, that dispenseth the same things to the wicked without
praying which the saints receive praying.  Now, with Satan, how knowest thou that thy mercies come to
thee as an answer to thy prayer, and not at the door of common provi­dence with
them?   For the extricating
thee out of this snare thou must know, that we are not to expect the
extraordinary ways to determine this, but must satisfy ourselves with what
light the word of God affords, which is able to resolve, not only this, but all
our cases of conscience. It is true that God doth some­times cast in some such
circumstances as bring an evi­dence with them that the mercy flies to us on the
wings of prayer.  As when, upon
Abraham’s servant’s praying at the well for God’s gracious conduct and help to
despatch his master’s business prosperously, that Rebecca should presently come
forth, and, by her kind carriage and invitation, so fitly answer the mould of
his prayer, even as the lock doth the key made for it.  Here heaven declared to his very sense,
that his prayer found the right way to heaven. When, upon prayer, the mercy is
thus cast in strangely and sud­denly without the concurrence of second
causes—yea, when they all lie under a visible sentence of death, and the thing
is put beyond the activity of their sphere to work—here there is no rival to
stand in competition with prayer. 
Thus, when the apostles healed the sick upon a short prayer darted up to
heaven—not so much as a doctor’s advice asked in the cure.  When Peter knocked at the door where
the church was praying for him, what but prayer bound his keeper’s senses so
fast in the chains of sleep, and made those with which Peter was bound to fall off
without any kind hand to help, but heaven’s?  What made the iron gate so officious to open to him that had
no key in his hand to unlock it? 
Surely we must confess, prayer opened heaven door, and heaven, at the
church’s prayer, opened the prison door.

         Yet
it is as true, that more commonly mercies that are won by prayer come
not with this pomp and observation. 
But, as converting grace oft steals into the hearts of some with less
terror and noise of hu­miliation than it doth into others; so, truly, do an­swers
in prayer—and that more commonly—come with more silence, and in the ordinary
road by the concurring help of second causes.  As, the Christian praying for the temporal provisions of
this life, God answers his prayer by blessing his diligence in his call­ing.  The sick Christian praying, hath his
food and physic thoroughly sanctified, and so recovers.  Now, though God hath left himself at
liberty, either to send his mercies by secondary hands, or, when he pleaseth,
to be the messenger himself, and bring them in an extraordinary way with his
immediate hand; yet hath he not left us at liberty to leave the ordinary
road, and neglect the means, under a pretence of expecting ex­traordinary ways
to have our desires.  Now as to
this ordinary way of giving in mercies in answer to prayer, these two things
are to be inquired for:—

         (1.)
Inquire whether thou who didst put up the prayer beest in a covenant state.  When God gives a mercy in answer to
prayer, he is said to ‘remember his covenant,’ Ps. 105:34 compared with ver. 8, and to be
‘mindful of his covenant,’ Ps. 111:5. His eye is first on the person, taking
notice who he is, whether his child or no, and then his ear is open to his cry:
‘The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their
cry,’ Ps.
34:15.  ‘Who art thou, my son?’ said Isaac to
Jacob, before he gave him the blessing. 
If God sees thou art not his child—and his eyes are not dim, like old
Isaac’s, that he can be deceived—thy prayer is not accepted.  Indeed, nei­ther canst thou, in that
state, pray in a gospel sense, nor God graciously bid thy prayer welcome; for
the spirit of prayer is a covenant grace, and interest in the mediation of
Christ a covenant privilege, without both which no prayer is accepted. God
hears not any that have not his Spirit to pray in them, and his Son to pray for
them; and none have these but such as are in a covenant state.

         (2.)
Inquire what thy frame of heart was in the duty of prayer, and also after
its performance.  Thy not being
in a covenant state will prove thy prayer was not heard, and consequently that
the mercy received came not as a gracious answer to it; but thy being in a
covenant state is an insufficient ground for thee to conclude that this
particular prayer that now thou puttest up is accepted, because there may
intervene something to hinder the present benefit of this privi­lege which is
annexed to thy covenant state. 
For, though thy state be good, yet thy present frame and behaviour may
be naught.  Thou mayest, though a
child of God, be under fresh guilt and defilement as yet unrepented of.  Now in this case God can shut his door
upon his own child.  Thou hast
indeed jus in re, but not aptitudinem ad rem—as a saint, thou
hast a right to all the promises of the covenant, and to this, of having God’s
ear open to thy prayers among the rest; but as thou art a saint under guilt, or
the defile­ment of any sin that thou hast not yet repented of, thou art not fit
to enjoy what thou hast a right to as a saint.  God doth not disinherit thee indeed, but he sequesters the
promise from thee, and the rents of it shall not be paid to thee, till thou
renewest thy repentance and faith on the Lord Jesus for the par­don of it.  Thy God will choose a fitter time than
this is to signify his love to thee. 
The leper under the law was to stand off while purified; and so will thy
God turn his back of thy prayer, till thou beest cleansed of thy sin.

         Again,
suppose thou art a saint, and hast not thus defiled thyself with any gross sin,
yet thy graces might not be exercised in the duty of prayer; haply thou didst
pray, but no faith or fervency were exerted in it.  There may be grace in the heart, but none in the duty; and
such a prayer shall not speed. The promise is to the saint acting his faith and
fervency in prayer.  ‘The effectual
fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much,’ James 5:16.  ‘Ye shall seek me, and find me, when ye
shall search for me with all your heart,’ Jer. 29:13.

         Lastly,
Though thou wert stirred up in prayer, yet may be thy heart was not raised up to
rely on God after prayer for the answer. 
Then we pray in faith when we so take hold of God by faith in prayer, as
to wait and stay ourselves on God for a return of mercy from him.  Now by putting all these together, thou
mayest come to the resolution of the question in hand.  If thou beest in a covenant state, and
liest not in any known sin unrepented of—if thou prayest fervently, and actest
faith on God, so as to stay thy soul upon God for an answer, though accompanied
with many weaknesses and staggerings—truly thou mayest, without presumption,
conclude the mercy which finds thee in this orderly manner waiting upon God
comes in a gracious answer to thy prayer. 
We do not fear to break open a letter when we find our name in the
superscription directing it to us. 
Search the promises, and thou shalt find them directed by name to thee
who prayest thus.

[1]Supersedeas, — a legal
document issued to halt or delay the action of some process of law.  Webster’s.

[2]Searce, v. t. sers. To shift; to bolt; to separate the fine
part of meal from the coarse. [Little used.]

Searce, n. sers. A sieve; a bolter. [Little used.]

— From Webster’s
1828 Dictionary.

[3]Note: The actual
quotation in the text appears to be a blending of John 12:28, and Matt. 26:39,
42. — SDB

[4]Note: — Could it be that this is a typo here and that what was
meant was the word respects? or, represents? or, presents?  While that would not clear up the
entire tenor of this paragraph, which seems fraught with problems, it would help
to alleviate them to a certain extent. — SDB

DIRECTION XI.—SECOND
GENERAL PART.

 

[How to perform the duty commanded—a directory for prayer.]

 

‘Praying always with
all prayer and supplication,’ &c.  (Eph. 6:18).

                                                                                                                                                                       

    H

aving despatched the
duty of prayer in general, we now come to give an account of the several
branches in the exhortation; which together make up an excellent directory to the Christian for his
better performing of this duty. 
Indeed, the apostle here not only teacheth the Christian how to pray,
but the minister how to preach, in that he doth not nakedly tell them what is
their duty—and so leave them to their own skill in the management of it; but
that he may facilitate the duty unto them, he annexeth such directions, and so
rules their copy for them, that they shall not easily miscarry in the
performance thereof.  That preacher
that press­eth a duty—though with never so much zeal—but doth not chalk out the
way how it is to be done, is like one that brings a man to a door that is
locked, and bids him go into the house; but gives him no key to open it.  Or, that sends a company to sea, but
lends them no chart by which they should steer their course.  But to come to the directions.  They are six.  First.
The time for prayer—‘praying always.’  Second.  The kinds or sorts of prayer—‘with
all prayer and supplication.’  Third. The inward principle
of prayer from which it may flow—‘in the Spirit.’  Fourth.
The guard to be set about the duty of prayer—‘watching thereunto.’
Fifth. The unwearied
constancy to be exercised in the duty—‘with all perseverance.’  Sixth.
The comprehen­siveness of the duty or persons for whom we are to pray—‘for
all saints.’

         We
shall begin with the first.

 

 

Division First.—The Time for Prayer.

 

‘Praying
always.’

 

           We
shall begin with the first direction, which points to the time of performing
the duty of prayer —‘always.’ 
This word ‘always’ hath a threefold importance.  First.
To pray ‘always’ is as much as if he had said, ‘pray in everything,’
according to that of the same apostle in another epistle—‘In every thing by
prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto
God.’  Second. To pray ‘always’ may import as much as to pray in
all conditions.  Third. To pray ‘always’ is to pray
daily.

 

[Threefold import of the expression

‘praying always.’]

 

           First.  To pray always is to pray in everything. Prayer is a
catholic duty, with which, like a girdle, we are to compass in all our
affairs.  It is to be as bread and
salt on our table; whatever else we have to our meal, these are not forgot to
be set on: whatever we do, or would have, prayer is necessary, be it small or
great.  Not as the heathen, who
prayed for some things to their gods, and not for other.  If poor, they prayed for riches; if
sick, for health; but as for the good things of the mind, such as patience,
content­ment, and other virtues, they thought they could carve well enough in
these for themselves, without troubling their gods to help them.  The poet it seems was of this mind—

 

           Hoc satis est orare
Jovem, qui donat et aufert.

           Det
vitam, det opes; animum mî æquum ipse parabo—

 

It is enough,

           To
pray of Jove who gives and takes away

           That
he may give me life and wealth:

           I
will myself prepare the equal soul.

 

           O
how proud is ignorance! let God give the less, and man will do the greater.

           But
their folly is not so much to wondered at, as the irreligion of many among
ourselves, who profess to know the true God, and have the light of his word to
direct them what worship to give him. 
Some are so brutish in their knowledge, that they hardly pray to God for
anything others for everything. 
May be they look upon pardon of sin, and salvation of their souls —as
fruit on the top branches of a tree—out of the reach of their own arm, and
therefore now and then put up some slighty prayers to God for them.  But as for temporals, which seem to
hang lower, they think they can pluck them by their own industry, without
setting up the ladder of prayer to come at them. They that should see some—how
busy they are in laying their plots, and how seldom in prayer—could not but
think they expected their safety from their own policy, and not God’s
providence.  Or, should they
observe how hard they work in their shop, and how seldom and lazy they are at
prayer for God’s blessing on their labour in their closet, they must conclude
these men promise themselves their estates more from their own labour than the
divine bounty.

           In
a word, it is some great occasion that must bring them upon their knees before
God in prayer. May be, when they have an extraordinary enterprise in hand,
wherein they look for strong opposition or great difficulty, in such a case God
shall have them knocking at his door—for now they are at their wits’ end and
know not how to turn them; but the more or­dinary and common actions of their
lives they think they can please their master at their pleasures, and so pass
by God’s door without bespeaking his presence or assistance.  Thus, one runs into his shop, and
another into the field, and takes no notice that God is concerned in their
employments.  If to take a long
journey by the sea or land, where eminent dangers and hazards present
themselves unto their thoughts, then God hath their company; but if to stay at
home, or walk to and fro in their ordinary employments, they bespeak not the
providential wing of God to overshadow them.  This is not to ‘pray always.’  If thou wilt, therefore, be a Christian, do not thus part
stakes with God, committing the greater transactions of thy life to him, and
trusting thyself with the less: but ‘acknowledge God in all thy ways, and lean
not to thine own understanding’ in any. 
By this thou shalt give him the glory of his universal providence, with
which he encircles all his creatures and all their ac­tions.  As nothing is too great to be above his
power, so nothing is too little to be beneath his care.  He is the God of the valleys as well as
of the mountains.  The sparrow on
the hedge and the hair on our head are cared for by him; and this is no more
derogatory to his glorious majesty than it was to make them at first.  Nay, thou shalt, by this, not only give
God his glory, but secure thyself, for there is no passage in thy whole life so
minute and inconsiderable, which—if God should withdraw his care and
providence—might not be an occasion of a sin or danger to thee.  And that which exposeth thee to these
calls upon thee to engage God for thy defence.

           First.  The least passage in thy life may prove
an occasion of sin to thee.  At
what a little wicket, many times, a great sin enters, we daily see.  David’s eye did but casually light on
Bathsheba, and the good man’s foot was presently in the devil’s trap.  Hast thou not then need to pray that
God would set a guard about thy senses wherever thou goest? and to cry with
him, ‘Keep back mine eyes from beholding vanity?’  Dinah went but to give her neighbours, ‘the daughters of the
land,’ a visit—which was but an ordinary civility—and we may imagine that she
little thought, when she went out, of playing the strumpet before she came
home; yet, alas! we read how she was deflowered!  What need then hast thou, before thou goest forth, to charge
God with the keeping of thee, that so thou mayest be in his fear from morning
till night!

           Second.  No passage of thy life so small wherein
thou mayest not fall into some great danger.  How many have been choked with their food at their own
table?—received their deadly wound by a beam from their own house?  Knowest thou what will be the end of
any action when thou beginnest it? 
Joseph was sent by his father to see his brethren in the field, and
neither of them thought of a longer journey; yet this proved the sad occasion
of his captivity in a strange land. Job’s servants were destroyed with
lightning from heaven when they were abroad about their mas­ter’s
business.  Where canst thou be safe
if heaven’s eye be not on thee?  A
slip of thy foot as thou walkest, or a trip of thy horse as thou ridest, may
break thy bones, yea thy neck.  O
what need, then, of a God to make thy path plain before thee!  It is he that ‘pre­serveth man and
beast;’ and canst thou have faith to expect his protection when thou hast not a
heart to bespeak it in thy humble prayers at his hand?  What reason hath God to care for thy
safety, who carest no more for his honour?

           Second.  To pray always may import as much as to pray in all
conditions; that is, in prosperity as well as in adversity.  So Calvin takes it: omni tempore
perinde valet, atque tam prosperis quâm adversis—it holds at all times
equally, and as much in prosperity as in adversity.  Indeed, when God doth afflict, he puts an especial season
for prayer into our hands; but when he enlargeth our state, he doth not
discharge us of the duty, as if we might then lay it aside, as the traveller
doth his cloak when the weather is warm. 
Prayer is not a winter garment. 
It is then to be warn indeed; but not to be left off in the summer of
pros­perity.  If you would find
some at prayer you must stay till it thunders and lightens; not go to them ex­cept
it be in a storm or tempest.  These
are like some birds that are never heard to cry or make a noise but in or
against foul weather.  This is not
to pray always; not to serve God, but to serve ourselves of God; to visit God,
not as a friend for love of his company, but as a mere beggar for relief of our
present necessity; using prayer as that pope is said to have used preach­ing,
for a net to compass in some mercy we want, and when the fish is got then to
throw away the duty. Well, Christian, take heed of this; thou hast argu­ments enough to keep this duty
always on its wheels, let thy condition be what it will.

 

[Why we should pray in all conditions.]

 

           First.  Pray in prosperity, that thou mayest
speed when thou prayest in adversity. 
Own God now, that he may acknowledge thee then.  Shall that friend be welcome to us that
never gives us a visit but when he comes to borrow?  This is a right beggar’s trick, but not a friend’s part.

           Second.  Pray in prosperity, to clear thyself
that thou didst not pray in hypocrisy when thou wert afflicted.  One prayer now will be a better
evidence for thy sincerity than a whole bundle of duties per­formed in
adversity.  Colours are better
discerned and distinguished by daylight than by the candle in the night.  I am sure the truth and plainness of
our hearts in duty will be best discovered in prosperity.  In afflic­tion, even gracious souls
have scruples upon their spirits that they seek themselves.  Smart and pain, they fear, makes them
cry till they remember that their acquaintance with God did not begin in their
af­fliction, but that they took delight in his company before these straits
drove them to him.

           Third.  Pray in prosperity, that thou mayest
not be ensnared by thy prosperity. 
Ephraim and Manas­seh were brethren, and so are plenty and forgetfulness
—the signification of their names. 
Prosperity is no friend to the memory; therefore we are cautioned so
much to beware when we are full, lest then we forget God: magnus vir est cui
præsens fælicitas si arrisit non irrisit (Bern.)—he
is a holy man indeed whose present prosperity doth not mock and abuse him when
it smiles most pleasingly on him. 
O how hard it is to be pleased with it and not be ensnared by it!
‘Wine,’ Solomon saith, ‘is a mocker;’ it soon puts him that is too bold with it
to shame.  Prosperity doth the
same.  A little of it makes us
drunk, and then we know not what we do. 
This hath proved often an hour of temptation to the best of men.  You shall find in Scripture the saints
have got their saddest falls on the evenest ground.  Noah, who had seen the whole world drowned in water, no
sooner was he almost come to safe shore but himself is drowned in wine. David’s
heart was fixed in the wilderness; but his wan­ton eye rouled and wandered when
upon the terrace of his palace. 
Health, honour, riches, and pleasures, with the rest of this world’s
enjoyments, they are like luscious wine. We cannot drink little of them, they
are so sweet to our carnal palate; and we cannot bear much of them, because
they are strong and heady, fuming up in pride and carnal confidence. Now prayer
is an excellent preservative against the evil of this state.

           1.
As it spiritualizes our joy into thankfulness.  It is carnal joy that is dreggy, and therefore soon pu­trefies.  Now, as prayer in affliction refines
the Christian’s sorrow by breathing it forth into holy groans to God, whereby
he is kept from sinful complaints of God and murmurings against him, thus here
the Christian, by giving a spiritual vent to his joy in thanksgiving and
praises to his God, is preserved from the degeneracy of carnal joy, that
betrays the soul to many foul sins, if itself be not one.  For this purpose it is that the apostle
James cuts out this two­fold channel for this double affection to run in: ‘Is
any among you afflicted? let him pray. 
Is any merry? let him sing psalms,’ James 5:13.  As if he should say, ‘Let the afflicted
soul pray, that he may not murmur. Let the joyous saint sing psalms, that his
joy turns not sensual.’  A carnal
heart can easily be merry and jo­cund when he prospers; the saint alone is
praiseful. The psalmist, speaking of the mariners delivered from storms at sea,
which threatened their wreck, saith, ‘Then are they glad because they be
quiet,’ Ps.
107:30. 
But this they may be and yet not thankful. Wherefore he adds his holy
option, ‘O that men would praise the Lord for his goodness!’

           2.
By prayer the soul is led into the acquaintance of higher delights than are
to be found in all his temporal enjoyments, and thereby is taken off from
an inordinate valuation of them, because he knows where better are to be
had.  The true reason why men are
puffed up with too high an opinion of worldly felicities is their ignorance of
{the} spiritual.

           3.
Prayer is God’s ordinance to sanctify our crea­ture-comforts.  Everything is ‘sanctified by the word
of God and prayer,’ I
Tim. 4:5. 
Now, this obtained, the Christian may safely drink of these
streams.  The uni­corn hath now put
in his horn to heal them; Satan shall not have such power to corrupt him in the
use of them as another that bespeaks not God’s blessing on them.  There is a vanity and flatulency in
every creature, which, if not corrected by prayer, breeds indigested humours in
him that feeds on it.

           Fourth.  In thy prosperity, Pray to show thy
de­pendance on God for what thou enjoyest.  Thou hold­est all thy mercies in capite—he that gave
thee thy life holds thy soul in life. ‘Thou hidst thy face,’ saith David, ‘and
I was troubled.’ Truly it is time for God to withdraw his hand when thou goest
about to cut off his title.  That
enjoyment comes but as a guest which is not entertained by prayer.  Solomon tells us of wings that our
temporal mercies have.  Now if
anything can clip these and keep them from fleeing away, it is prayer.  God would often have destroyed Israel,
but Moses stood in the gap; their mercies were oft upon the wing, but that holy
man’s prayers stayed their flight. 
God’s heart would not serve him to come over the back of his prayer and
put that to shame.  No; they shall
live.  But let them say, Moses’
prayer begged their life.  Now, if
the prayer of a holy person could avail for others, and obtain a new lease for
their lives, that were, many of them, none of the best; surely, then, the
prayer of a saint may have great pow­er with God for his own.  Long life is promised to him that
honours his earthly father.  Prayer
gives our heavenly Father the greatest honour.  If, therefore, thou wouldst have thy life, or the life of
any mercy, prolonged, forget not to pay him this tribute.  Yea, would you transmit what God hath
blessed you with to your posterity, the best way thou canst take is to lock thy
estate up in God’s hand by prayer. 
Whatever will thou makest, God is sure to be thy executor.  Man may propose and purpose, but God
disposeth.  Engage him, and the
care is taken for thy posterity.

           Fifth.
Pray now, that thou mayest outlive the loss of thy prosperity.  When prayer cannot prevail to keep a
temporal mercy alive with thee, yet it will have a powerful influence to keep
thy heart alive when that dies.  O
it is sad when a man’s estate and comfort are buried in the same grave
together!  None will bear the loss
of an enjoyment so patiently as he that was exer­cised in prayer while he had
it.  When Job was in his
flourishing estate, his children alive, and all his other enjoy­ments, then was
he a great trader with God in this duty. 
He ‘sanctified’ his children every day.  He did not bless himself in them, but sought the blessing of
God for them; and see how comfortably he bears all: ‘The Lord gave, and the
Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord.’  The more David prayed for his child
while alive the fewer tears he shed for it when it was dead.

           Third. To pray always is to pray daily.  When the Christian keeps a constant
daily exercise of this duty, prayer is not a holiday, but everyday work: ‘Every
day will I bless thee; and I will praise thy name for ever and ever,’ Ps. 145:2.  This was typified by ‘the daily
sacrifice,’ called therefore ‘the continual burnt offering,’ Ex. 29:38;
whereby was signi­fied our daily need of seeking mercy at God’s hands through
Christ.  When our Lord taught his
disciples to pray, he bade them not to ask bread for a week, no, not for a
morrow, but for the present day: ‘Give us this day our daily bread’—plainly
signifying our duty to seek our bread every day of God.  This surely was also the end why God
gave the manna in such a portion as should not stuff their cupboards, and fur­nish
them with a store for a month or a week, but be a just demensum —measure
and sufficient allowance for a day, that so they might be kept in a daily
dependence on God, and look up to him daily who carried the key of their pantry
for them.  And have not we the same
necessities upon us with them?  Our
bodies are as weak as theirs, and cannot be preserved without a daily repast.
Do we not depend on him for the bread of the day and the rest of the
night?  And he hath too good an
opin­ion of his soul’s constitution, who thinks it can live or thrive with
yesterday’s meal, without renewing his communion with God to-day.  The mother would think her sucking
child not well, if it should forsake the breast a whole day; so mayest thou
conclude thy soul is not right, that can pass a day without craving any
spiritual repast in prayer.  If thy
wants be not suf­ficient to keep the chariot of this duty on its wheels, yet
the sins which thou daily renewest would drive thee every day to con­fess and
beg pardon for them.

           We
are under a law not to let the sun go down upon our wrath against our
brother.  And dare we, who every
day deserve God’s wrath, let the sun go down before that controversy is taken
up between God and us?  In a word,
every day hath its new mercies. 
‘His compassions fail not; they are new ev­ery morning,’ Lam. 3:23.  These new mercies contract a new debt,
and God hath told us the way of payment, viz. a tribute of praise.  Without this, we cannot ex­pect a
sanctified use of them.  He is
branded by all for a profane person that eats his meat and gives not
thanks.  And it would be thought a
ridiculous excuse, should he say he gave thanks yesterday, and that should
serve for this meal also.  We have
more mer­cies every day to bless God for than what is set on our tables.  We wear mercies; we breathe mercies; we
walk upon mercies; our whole life is but a passage from one mercy, to be
entertained by another.  As one
cloth is drawn, another is laid for a new feast to be set on.  Now, doth God every day anoint our head
with fresh oil, and shall not we crown him with new praises?  I will not enter into a discourse how
oft a Christian should in a day pray. 
At least it must be twice, i.e. morning and night.  Prayer must be the key of the morning
and lock of the night.  We show not
ourselves Christians, if we do not open our eyes with prayer when we rise, and
shut them again with the same key when we lie down at night.  This answers to the morning and evening
sacrifice in the law, which yet was so commanded as to leave room for those oth­er
free‑will offerings which their zeal might prompt them to.  Pray as oft as you please besides, so that
your devotions justle not with the necessary duties of your particular
callings; the oftener the more welcome. 
We read of David’s ‘seven times a day.’  But be sure thou dost not retrench and cut God short of thy
stated hours.  ‘It is a good
thing,’ saith the psalmist, ‘to give thanks unto the Lord, to shew forth thy
lovingkindness in the morning, and thy faithfulness every night,’ Ps. 92:1, 2.  God is alpha and omega.  It is fit we should begin and end the
day with his praise, who begins and ends it for us with his mercy.

           Well,
Christian, thou seest thy duty plainly laid before thee.  As thou wouldst have God prosper thy
labour in the day, and sweeten thy rest in the night, clasp them both togeth­er
with thy morning and even­ing devotions. 
He that takes no care to set forth God’s portion of time in the morning,
doth not only rob God of his due, but is a thief to himself all the day after,
by losing the blessing which a faithful prayer might bring from heaven on his
undertakings.  And he that closeth
his eyes at night without prayer, lies down before his bed is made.  He is like a foolish captain in a
garrison, who betakes himself to his rest before he hath set the watch for the
city’s safeguard.  God is his
people’s keeper; but can he expect to be kept by him, that chargeth not the
divine providence with his keeping? 
The angels, at his command, pitch their tents about his saints’
dwellings.  But as the drum calls the
watch together, so God looks that, by humble prayer, we should beg of him their
ministry and attendance about us. 
I shall shut up this discourse with one caution to be observed in your
daily exercise of this duty.

           Caution.  Beware that thy constant daily
performance of this duty doth not degenerate into a lifeless formality.  What we do commonly, we are prone to be
but ordinary and slighty in the doing. 
He is a rare Christian that keeps his course in prayer, and yet grows
not customary to pray of mere course. 
The power of religion cannot be preserved without an out­ward form and
order observed in its exercises; and yet very hard it is not to grow formal in
those duties which we are daily conversant with.  Many that are very neat and nice when their holiday suit is
on their back, are yet too slovenly in wearing their everyday apparel.  Thus, at a fast or on a Sabbath, our
hearts haply are stirred up to some solemnity and spirituality becoming the
duty of prayer, as being awed with the sacredness of the time and extraordinary
weight of the work; but alas! in our everyday duties we are too slighty and
slovenly.

           Now,
set thyself, Christian, with all thy might, to keep up the life and vigour of
thy spirit in thy daily approaches to God.  Be as careful to set an edge on thy graces before thy
prayer, as on thy stomach before thy meal.  Labour to come as hungry to this duty, as to eat thy dinner
and supper.  Now no expedient for
this like a holy watch set about thy heart in the whole course of thy
life.  He that watcheth his heart
all day, is most likely to find it at hand and in time for prayer at night.  Whereas, loose walking breeds lazy
praying. Be oft in the day putting thyself in mind what work waits for thee at
night.  Thou art to draw near unto
thy God, and this will make thee afraid of doing anything in the day that will
indispose thee, or make thee fear a chide from thy God, when thou appearest
before him.  That of the apostle is
observable: ‘If ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons judgeth
according to every man’s work, pass the time of your sojourn­ing here in fear,’
I Peter
1:17.  As if he
had said, ‘Do you mean to pray? then look to the whole course of your walking,
that it be in the fear of God, or else you will have little heart to go about
that work, and as little hope that he will bid you welcome, for he judgeth all
persons that pray, not only by their prayers, but by their works and walking.’

 

 

 

Division Second.—The Kinds of Prayer.

 

‘With
all prayer and supplication.’

 

           The
second branch in the apostle’s directory for prayer follows, which hath respect
to the kinds of prayer that are to be taken into the Christian’s
exercise.  As for the season, he
must ‘pray always;’ so for the kinds of prayer, ‘with all prayer and
supplication.’  Now, there is a
double ‘all’ to be observed, as we shall make clear under two
branches.  First. There is all manner of prayer.  Second.
There is all matter of prayer.

 

BRANCH
FIRST.

 

[‘All prayer’ is
viewed as to
diversity in manner.]

 

           I
shall begin with the first branch mentioned, viz. the modus orandi—the
manner of praying: and that falls under several divisions, and
distinctions.  First. Prayer is sudden and ejaculatory,
or composed and fixed.  Second. That which is composed, is either
solitary, or social—performed jointly with others.  Third. Social
and joint prayer is either pri­vate in the fam­ily or public in the
church.  Fourth. Solitary and social, private or public prayer, are
either ordinary or extraordinary.

 

[Prayer distinguished
as ejaculatory or composed.]

 

           First Distinction.  Prayer is sudden and ejac­ulatory,
or composed and fixed.

           First.  Sudden or ejaculatory prayer, which
is nothing else but the lifting up of the soul to God up­on a sudden emerged
occasion, with some short but lively expression of our desires to him.  Sometimes it is vocal, sometimes only
groaned forth from the secret workings of a secret heart.  These darts may be shot to heaven
without using the tongue’s bow. Such a kind of prayer that of Moses was, which
rang so loud in God's ear that he asked Moses, ‘Wherefore criest thou unto me?’
Ex. 14:15;
whereas, we read of never a word that he spake.  It was no season for Moses then to retire and betake himself
to the duty of prayer, in a composed and settled way, as at other times he was
wont, for the enemy was at his back, and the people of Israel flocking about
him, murmuring and charging him with the guilt of blood, in that he had enticed
them out of Egypt to fall into such a trap, wherein they expected no other than
to lose their lives, either in the sea or by the Egyptians.  This no doubt made Moses presently
despatch his desires to heaven by the hand of some short ejaculation, the
surest and quickest post in the world, which brought him back a speedy and
happy return, as you may see, ver. 16.

           Thus,
Nehemiah also, upon the occasion of the king’s speech to him, interposeth a
short prayer to God between the king’s question and his answer to it: ‘Then the
king said unto me, For what dost thou make request?  So I prayed to the God of heaven, and I said unto the king,’
&c., Neh.
2:4.  So soon
was this holy man at heaven and back again—even in a trice —without any breach
of manners in making the king wait for his answer.  Sometimes you have the saints forming their desires into a
few smart and passionate words, which fly with a holy force from their lips to
heaven, as an arrow out of a bow. 
Thus old Jacob, when he was despatching his sons back again to Egypt,
and had with the greatest prudence provided for their journey, by furnishing
them with double money, and a choice present in their hand to appease the
governor of the land, that now he might engage heaven on their side, he
breathes forth into this ejacu­latory prayer, ‘God Almighty give you mercy
before the man, that he may send away your other brother, and Benjamin,’ Gen. 43:14.  And David, when intelligence came that
Ahithophel was of Absalom’s council, let fly that dart to heaven, ‘O Lord, I
pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness,’ II Sam. 15:31.  This kind of praying David might mean
when he saith, ‘Seven times a day do I praise thee,’ Ps. 119:164.  Not as if he had seven set hours for
this duty every day, as the Papists would have it, to counten­ance their seven
canonical hours, but rather a definite number is here put for an
indefinite.  And so it amounts to
no more than this—he did very often in a day praise God, his holy heart taking
the hint of every providence to carry him to heaven on this er­rand of prayer
and praise.

           Now,
to despatch this kind of prayer, I shall only, first, show why the Christian,
beside his stated hours for prayer, wherein he holds more solemn com­merce with
God, should also visit God occasionally, and step into his presence over and
anon—whatever he is about—with these ejaculatory breathings of his heart; for
this is a kind of prayer that needs not inter­rupt the Christian, nor break any
squares in his other enjoyments. 
Is he on a journey?  He may
go to heav­en in these short sallies of his soul, and make no less speed in his
way for them.  Is he in the field
at work? His plough needs not stand still for this.  As the meadow is not the worse for what the bee sucks from
its flowers, so neither doth a man’s worldly occasions suffer any loss from that
spiritual improvement which a gracious soul thus makes of them.

 

[Four reasons why the Christian

should use
ejaculatory prayers.]

 

           Reason
1. The first reason may be taken from God, who, to show his great delight
in his children’s prayers, lets his door stand always wide open, that
whenever we have but a heart, and will be so kind as to step in to visit
him with a prayer at what hour of the day or night soever it be, we shall be
welcome. Nay, he doth not only give us a liberty, but he lays it as a law upon
us, to let him hear from us as oft as possibly we can, and therefore commands
us to ‘pray without ceasing,’ I Thes. 5:17, and ‘whatsoever
ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to
God and the Father by him,’ Col. 3:17. What do these and such like places
signify, but that we should take every occasion that his Spirit and providence
bring to our hand to the lifting our hearts up to him in prayer?  And an we suppose that a prayer at our
first setting forth in the morning, with never thinking of God any more till we
come to our round for prayer at night again, will pass for a praying
continually?  When a father
chargeth his son, that lives abroad, to let him as oft as may be hear from him,
though he doth not expect a long epistle from him by every messenger that comes
that way, yet he looks for some short remembrance of his duty by word of mouth,
and that is accepted, till he hath more leisure to write his full mind.  God bids pray continually.  Now, he knows we cannot be always on
our knees in the solemn performance of this duty.  But, therefore, he expects to hear the oftener from us in
these occasional remembrances of him—hinted to us all along the day by emerging
providences—which the Holy Spirit stands ready as our messenger to convey unto
him.

           Reason
2. The second reason may be taken from the excellent use of ejaculatory
prayers in the Christian’s whole course of life.

           (1.)
They are of excellent use to be set against those sudden injections of
Satan, which he will be darting into our minds.  It were strange if the best of saints should not find the
devil busy with them in this kind. 
None so pure whose chastity of mind this foul spirit dares not to assault.  And when his temptations have once
coloured our imagination, it is hard wiping them off before they soak so deep
as to leave some malignant tincture on our affections.  Now, when any such dart from hell is
shot in at thy window, no such way to wind out of the temptation as to shoot
thy darts to heaven in some holy ejaculation.  Our Saviour taught his disciples the use of this weapon:
‘Pray that ye enter not into temptation.’ 
Now when thou canst not draw out the long sword of a solemn prayer, then
go to the short dagger of ejaculatory prayer; and with this—if in the hand of
faith—thou mayest stab thy enemy to the heart.  He that at one short prayer of David could infatuate
Ahithophel, an oracle for policy, can befool the devil himself, and will at thy
prayer of faith.  ‘The Lord rebuke
thee, O Satan,’ said Christ.  It is
time now for Satan to be gone, when heaven takes the alarm; as when thieves are
about a house to rob it, and they within beat a drum, or give a sudden shriek
to call in help, presently they flee. And if God for thy trial should not come
at first call, to rid thee of these unwelcome guests, yet thy very crying
out—if affectionate and cordial—will clear thee from consenting to their
villainy.

           (2.)
They are a sovereign means to allay the Christian’s affections to the world—one
of the worst enemies he hath in the field against him; for it chokes the soul,
thickens the Christian’s spirit, and changes his very complexion.  Who but dying men smell of the earth
and carry its colour in their countenance? Grace dieth apace where the heart
savours much of the earth.  Now,
prayer, what is it, but the lifting of the soul from earth to heaven?  Were we oftener in a day sucking in, as
it were, fresh air and new influences of grace from God, our spirits could not
possibly be so much poisoned with worldly affections. When one was asked,
‘Whether he did not admire the goodly structure of a stately house?’  he answered, ‘No. For,’ saith he, ‘I
have been at Rome, where more magnificent fabrics are to be seen.’  Thus, when Satan presents the world’s
pleasures or treasures to the Christian—that he may inveigle his affections to
dote on them—a gracious soul can say, ‘I have been at heaven; there is not an
hour in the day wherein I enjoy not better than these in communion with my
God.’

           Reason
3. Ejaculatory prayers keep the Christian’s heart in a holy disposition
for the more solemn performance of his duty.  He that is so heavenly in his earthly employments will be
the less worldly in his heavenly. 
It was a sweet speech of a dying saint, ‘That he was going to change his
place but not his company.’  A
Christian that is frequent in these ejac­ulations, when he goes to pray more
solemnly, he goes not from the world to God, but from God to God—from a
transient view of him to a more fixed; whereas, another discontinues his
acquaintance with God, after his morning visit, and comes not in his company
till called in by his customary performance. O! how hard a business will such a
one find it to pray with a heavenly heart!  What you fill the vessel with, you must expect to draw
thence.  If water be put in, we
cannot without a miracle think to draw wine. What! art thou all day filling thy
heart with earth —God not in all thy thoughts—and dost thou look to draw heaven
thence at night?  If you would have
fire for your evening sacrifice, expect not new from heav­en to be dropped, but
labour to keep what is already on thine altar from going out; which thou canst
not better do than by feeding it with this fuel.

           Reason
4. Ejaculatory prayers are of excellent use to alleviate any great
affliction that lies heavy upon soul or body.  While others sit disconsolate, grinding their souls and
wasting their spirits with their own anxious thoughts; these are his wings with
which he flieth above his troubles, and in an instant shoots his soul to
heaven, out of the din and noise of his af­flictions.  How can he be long uncomfortable, who, when anything begins
to disquiet him, lets it not lie boking and belking in his mind—as a thorn in
the flesh—but presently gives vent to it, by some heavenly meditation or heart-easing
prayer to God?  Those heavenly
tidings which came to Job, one upon the neck of another, it was not possible
for him to have stood under, had his thoughts been employed on no other subject
than his affliction.  But, being
able to lift up his heart to God—‘The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away;
blessed be the name of the Lord’—this one devout meditation or ejaculation gave
him incomparable ease.  Indeed, in
afflictions that are very sharp and violent, it is no time for long discourses;
the poor creature cannot hold out in a continued duty of prayer, as at another
time.  When the fight grows hot,
and the army comes to grapple hand to hand with their enemy, they have not
leisure to charge their great artillery, then their short swords do them most
service.  Truly thus it is in this
case. The poor creature, may be, finds his body weak, and his spirit oppressed
with temptations, which Satan pours like so much shot upon him, that all he can
well do is to pray quick and short—now fetch a groan for the pain he feels, and
then shoot a dart to heaven to call God in to his help.  And blessed is the man who hath his
quiver full of these arrows.  We
see Christ in his agony chose to pray oft, rather than long: ‘If it be
possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine be
done.’  This short ejaculation he
sends to heaven thrice, with some little pause of time between prayer and
prayer.  ‘And was heard in that he
feared,’ Heb.
5:7.

 

 

 

USE
OR APPLICATION.

 

[Reproof to those who
either do not use

ejaculatory prayer at
all, or not rightly.]

 

           Use
First.  A reproof to those that
use not this kind of prayer, or do it in a profane manner; or that use
this, but neg­lect other kinds of prayer.

           1.
For reproof of those that are wholly unacquainted with ejaculatory prayer—not
such a dart to be found in all their quiver.  Their heart is as a bow bent indeed, and their quiver full
of arrows.  But all are shot beside
this mark.  The world is their butt;
at this they let fly all their thoughts. 
God is so great a stranger with them, that they hardly speak to or think
of him from morning to night, though they travel all day in his company.  And is it not strange that God, who is
so near his creature, should be so far from his thoughts?  Where canst thou be, or what can thy
eye light upon, that may not bring God to thy remembrance, and give thee a fair
occasion to lift up thy heart to him? 
He is present with thee in every place and company.  Thou canst use no creature, enjoy no
mercy, feel no affliction, and put thy hand to no work, which will not prompt
thee either to beg his counsel, seek his blessing, crave his protection, or
give him praise for his gracious providence over thee.  The very beast thou ridest on, could it
speak—as once Balaam’s ass did—would reprove thy atheism, who goest plodding on
thy way, and takest no notice of him that preservest both man and beast.  But God speaks once, yea twice, and brutish
men perceive it not.  Well may
Solomon say, ‘The heart of the wicked is of little worth,’ when God is not in
all his thoughts. What can that heart be worth, that is stuffed with that which
is worth naught? at least within a while will be so? for within that moment
wherein these poor wret­ches die, all their thoughts perish and come to
nothing.  Truly, though ye were so
many kings and emperors, yet, if the stock of your thoughts be spent all the
day long upon earthly projects—never flying so high as to lead you into
communion with God—you are but like those vermin that are buried alive in some
stinking dunghill.  The food your
souls live upon is low and base, and such must the temper of your souls also
needs be.

           O!
how many are there in the world, whose backs are bravely clad with scarlet,
while their souls embrace the dunghill—whose bellies are high fed and
deliciously pampered, but their souls set at coarse fare!  The body, which is the beggar, is
mounted on horseback, and the soul, which is the prince, walks on
foot—preferred to no higher employment than to hold her slave’s stirrup—being
made to bestow all his thoughts and care how to provide for that, an allowed
nothing for itself. Yet these must be cried up for the only happy men in the
world!  Whereas, some poor
creatures are to be found though their outward port and garb in the world
renders them despicable—who enjoy more of heaven and true comfort, by the fre­quent
commerce they have with God, as they are at their loom or wheel, in one day,
than the other do in all their lives, for all their pomp and fanciful
felicities. What account will such give to God for the expense of their
thoughts, the first‑born of their souls? 
What pity is it that strangers should devour them,—the highest
improvement whereof is to send them in embassies to heaven, and to converse
with God!  He who gave man a
countenance erect, to walk—not creep on all four, as some other creatures, with
their back upon heaven and mouth to the earth—never intended his soul should
stoop so below itself, and lick the dust for its food; but rather, that it
should look up to God, and enjoy himself in enjoying communion with him that is
the Father of spirits.  If it be so
bad a spectacle to behold a man bowed down through the deformities or infirmities
of his body, as to go like a beast on all four, hands and feet; much more, to
see a soul so crippled with ignorance and sensual affections, that it cannot
look up from the earth where it lies a roveling, to converse with God its
Maker.

           2.
It reproves those who do indeed shoot now and then to heaven some of these
darts of ejaculatory prayers, but in so profane a way as makes both God and
gracious men to nauseate them. 
Did you never hear a vile wretch interlace his discourse with a strange
medley of oaths and prayers?—rap out an oath, and then send out a vain prayer,
in the midst of his carnal discourse? 
‘God forgive us!’  ‘God
bless us!’  ‘God be merciful to us!’  Such forms of speech many have got, and
they come tumbling out when they do not mind what they say. Now, which do you
think is like to get first to heaven—their oaths or their prayers?  It is hard to say whether their
swearing or their praying is the worst. 
What base and low thoughts have those wretches of the great God, to make
so bold with his holy and reverent name, which should not be thought or spoken
of without fear and trembling! 
‘The legs of the lame are not equal, so is a parable in the mouth of
fools;’ that is, it is un­comely. The name of God doth not fit a profane mouth;
the discourse is not equal.  One
step in hell and another in heaven is too great a stride at once to be
taken.  To shoot one dart at God in
an oath, and another to him in a prayer, what can you make of this but a toying
with that which is sacred? Religion and the eye are too tender to be played
with.  Such prayers as these are
shot out of the devil’s bow, and are never to reach heaven, except it be to
bring back a curse for him that put them up.

           3.
A reproof to those who content themselves with this kind of prayer.  They will now and then cast a transient
glance upon God in a short ejaculation, but never set themselves to seek God in
a more sol­emn way.  And is this
all thou canst afford?  No more
than to look in at God’s door, and away presently!  Dost thou not think that he expects thou shouldst sometimes
come to stay longer with him in a more settled communion?  It is true, these occasional vis­its,
when joined with the conscientious performance of the other, is an excellent
symptom of a heavenly heart, and speaks grace to be very lively when they are
frequent.  As when a man between
his set meals is so hungry that he must have something to stay his stomach, and
yet, when dinner when dinner or sup­per come, can feed as heartily as if he had
eaten noth­ing—this shows indeed the man to be healthy and strong.  But, if a bit by the by takes away his
stomach, that he can eat little or nothing at his ordinary meal, this is not so
good a sign.  Thus here: if a
Christian, between his set and solemn seeking of God morning and night, finds
an inward hunger upon his spirit, so strongly craving communion with God that
he cannot stay till his stated hour for prayer returns, but must ever and anon
be refreshing himself with the beverage of ejaculatory prayer, and then comes
sharp set to duty at his ordinary set time, this speaks grace to be in statu
athletico—strong and thriving; but, on the contrary, it shows a slighty and
naughty spirit to make these an excuse or plea for the neglect of the other.
Thou tastest, sure, little sweetness, and findest little nourishment from these,
or else they would excite thy soul to hunger for further communion with
God.  As soon as David opened his
eyes in the morning, his heart was sallying forth to God—‘When I awake I am
still with thee.’  And as he walked
abroad in the daytime, every occasion led him into the presence with God:
‘Seven times a day do I praise thee;’ that is, often—as it is said, The
righteous fall seven times in a day. 
But, did these short glances of David's heart steal from the more solemn
performance of his duty? No; we find he had his set seasons also: ‘Evening, and
morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud,’ Ps. 55:17.  Mr. Ainsworth interprets this place of
solemn stated prayer; and it seems to have been the practice of more devout
Jews to devote three seasons in a day for that duty.  I can no more believe him to be frequent and spiritual in
ejaculatory prayer who neglects the season of solemn prayer, than I can believe
that he keeps every day in the week a Sabbath who neglects to keep that one
which God hath appointed.

[Exhortation to the
believer’s frequent

use of ejaculatory
prayer.]

 

           Use
Second. To the saints. 
Be ye excited to the frequent exercise of this duty of
ejaculatory prayer.  I know you are
not altogether strangers to it—if you answer your name and be such as you go
for; but it is a more intimate and familiar acquaintance with this kind of
prayer that I would gladly lead you into. 
Such an art it is that, were we but skilful traders in it, we should
find a blessed advance in our spiritual estate and soon have more money in our
purse—grace and comfort, I mean, in our hearts—than now most Christians can
show.  We might, by a spiritual
alchemy, turn all we touch into gold, extract heaven out of earth, and make
wings of every creature and provi­dence that meet us to help us in our flight
to God. Our whole life would be—what I have read of a holy man—but one
communion‑day with Christ. 
Then neither friends nor foes, joys nor woes, callings nor
recreations—or whatever else we have in this world to do with—should be able to
interrupt our acquaintance with him. 
Whereas now, alas! everything inter­poseth, as an opaque body, to hide
God and heaven from our eye.  We
who now walk—like travellers in some bottom or low swamp—with our thoughts of
heaven so overtopped by the world, that we hardly get a sight of that glorious
city to which we are going from morning to night—and thereby lose much of the
pleasure of our journey—should then have it in a manner always before us, as a
joyful prospect in our eye, to solace us in the difficulties of our pilgrimage,
and make us gather up our feet more nimbly in the ways of holiness when we
shall see whither they lead us.  We
count them pleasantly situated who live in a climate where the sun is seldom
off their horizon. Truly, none have such a constant light of inward joy and
peace shining upon their souls as those who are familiarly conversant with this
duty.  They are in sole positi—placed
in the sun, as is said of the Rhodians; they stand at the best advantage of any
other to have, if not a continual, yet a frequent, intercourse with God, from
whom both the influences of comfort and grace also do all come.  And if those trees must needs have the
fairest and sweetest which stand most in the sun, then, surely, they are most
likely to excel others both in comfort and grace who are most with God. Every
little that the bee brings to the hive—as she flies in and out, though she
stays not long on any flower—adds to the stock.  Though the soul makes no long stay with God in this kind of
prayer, yet the frequent reiterations thereof conduce much to the in­crease of
its grace.  Light gain, with quick
returns, makes a heavy purse. 
Little showers, often following one upon another, plump the corn and
fill the bushels.  So do these
short spurts—sallies of the soul to heaven—enrich and increase grace in the
heart ex­ceedingly.  Now, if thou
shouldst ask how thou may­est make this kind of ejaculatory prayer more
familiar unto thee, take these few words of counsel:—

 

[Some helps to ejaculatory prayer.]

 

           1.
Help.  Keep thy heart
with all diligence—thy affections, I mean.  The very reason why we sally out so seldom toward God in
these occasional prayers is because the weight of our affections poise us
another way.  The bowl runs as its
bias inclines, the stream flows as the fountain empties itself.  If our affections be carnal, to earth
we go, and God hath little of our company.  Adam, it is said, ‘begat a son in his own likeness,’ Gen. 5:3,
and so doth the heart of every man. As is the earthy, such are they also that
are earthy; as is the heavenly, such they also that be heavenly.  La­bour, therefore, to get and keep thy
heart heavenly; especially look to these three affections—thy love, fear, and
joy.

           (1.)
Thy Love.  If this fire burn
clear, the more of these sparks will from it mount up to God.  Love is a great friend to memory.  The adulterer is said to have his ‘eyes
full of the harlot,’ and holy love will be as mindful of God.  Such a soul will be often setting God
in its view: ‘I have set the Lord always before me,’ Ps. 16:8.  And by often thinking of God the heart
will be enticed into desires after him. 
‘The desire of our soul is to thy name, and to the remembrance of thee,’
Isa. 26:8.  And see what follows, ‘With my soul have
I desired thee in the night; yea, with my spirit within me will I seek thee
early,’ ver.
9.  Love sets
the soul on musing, and musing on praying.  Meditation is prayer in bullion, prayer in the ore—soon
melted and run into holy desires. 
The laden cloud soon drops into rain, the piece charged soon goes off
when fire is put to it.  A
meditating soul is in proximâ po­tentiâ to prayer.  ‘While I was musing the fire burned:
then spake I with my tongue, Lord, make me to know mine end,’ Ps. 39:3, 4.  This was an ejaculatory prayer shot
from his soul when in the company of the wicked.

           (2.)
Thy Fear.  Even wicked men,
thought they be great strangers to prayer, yet we shall hear them knocking at
God’s door in a fright; much more will a holy fear direct the Christian, upon
all occasions, to lift up his heart to God.  Art thou in thy calling?  Fear a snare therein, and this will excite thee oft in a day
to bespeak counsel of God how to behave thyself therein.  Art thou in company?  Fear lest thou should st do or receive
hurt, and thou wilt be lifting up thy heart to him that can only keep thee from
both.  We cannot have a more
faithful monitor to mind us of this duty than a holy fear.  ‘They that feared the Lord thought upon
his name,’ Mal.
3:16.  ‘At what
time I am afraid,’ saith David, ‘I will trust in thee.’  Fear makes us think where our safety
lies, and leads us to our ref­uge. 
Had not Noah feared a storm the ark had not been built.  Men fear no sin nor danger, and
therefore God hears not of them all the day long: the ungodly world, who walk
with their back upon heaven and look not up to God from morning to night.  We may tell the reason—‘The fear of God
is not before their eyes.’

           (3.)
Thy joy and delight in God. 
O cherish this.  As fear
disposeth to pray, so joy to praise. 
Now, and not till now, the instrument of thy heart is in tune. One hint
now from the providence of God, and touch from his Spirit, will set such a soul
on work to bless God.  Carnal men,
when they are frolic and upon the merry pin, then they have their catches and
songs as they sit in their house or ride on the way: how much more will the
gracious soul, that walks in the sense of God’s love, be often striking up his
harp in holy praises to God? 
‘Because thy lovingkindness is better than life, my lips shall praise
thee,’ Ps.
63:3.  ‘I will
bless thee while I live,’ ver.
4.  And again,
‘My mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips,’ ver. 5.  See how he goes over and over again the
same note.  Joy can no more be hid
than ointment.  As that betrayeth
itself by its hot and sweet perfumes, so doth holy joy make its own report in
the praises it sounds forth to God. It behooves thee therefore, Christian, to
be as chary and choice of thy joy as thou wouldst be of the blood in thy veins;
for in this runs the spirits of praise and thanksgiving.  Now, would you nourish your joy?  Do it by sucking the promises—those
breasts of consola­tion.  these are
a food of pure juice and strong nourishment; they soon turn into blood—joy and
peace, I mean—and with this a spirit of praise must needs also grow.

           2.
Help.  Possess thy heart
with strong apprehensions of God’s overruling providence in all thy
enterprises, great or small; that he doth what pleaseth him in heaven and
earth, so that all thy labour and toil in any business is in vain while [until]
this main wheel begins to stir—his providence gives countenance to the
action.  O, how would this raise
thy heart up to God, and send thee with many an errand into his presence!  Suppose a man was going about some im­portant
business, and had him in his company that alone {which} could help or hinder
the despatch of it; were it not strange that he should travel all day with him
and not apply himself to this person to make him his friend?  This is thy very case, Christian. Thou
and all thy affairs are at the absolute disposure of the great God, to bless or
blast thee in every enter­prise. 
If thou hast not his vote, thy business is stop­ped in the head.  Now, this God is always in thy com­pany,
whether at home or abroad, in thy bed or at thy board.  Surely thou didst believe this firmly,
thou wouldst oft in a day turn thyself to him, and beg his good‑will to favour
thy undertaking and facilitate thy business for thee.

           3.
Help.  Look thou compliest
with the motions of the Holy Spirit. 
The Christian shall find him, as his remembrancer to mind him of the
more solemn performance of this duty of prayer, so his monitor, to suggest many
occasional meditations to his thoughts —even amidst worldly employments—as a
hint that now it is a fit time to give God a visit in holy some ejaculation, by
thus setting the door, as it were, open for him into God’s presence.  Sometimes he will be recalling a truth
thou hast read or heard, a mercy thou hast received, or a sin thou hast
committed.  And what means he by
all these but to do thee a friendly office, that by these—thy affections being
stirred—thou mayest be invited to dart thy soul up to God in some ejaculation
suitable to his motion?  Now, take
the hint he gives, and thou shalt have more of his company and help in this
kind.  For, as the evil spirit,
where he finds welcome to his wicked suggestions, grows bold to knock oftener
at that door because it is so soon opened to him; so the Holy Spir­it is
invited, where his motions are kindly entertained, to be more frequent in these
his approaches; where was thy neglect of them may cause him to with­draw and
leave thee to thy own slothful spirit. 
When Christ had thrice made an attempt to take away his drowsy disciples
by calling them up to watch and pray, and they fell to nodding again, truly
then he bids them ‘sleep on.’

 

[Composed prayer
distinguished as

secret
or social.]

 

           Second Distinction.  What we have called composed prayer
may be distinguished as either soli­tary, or social—performed jointly with
others.  It is designated composed,
because the Christian compos­eth himself more solemnly to the work by setting
some considerable time apart from his other occa­sions, for his more free and
full communion with God in prayer. 
We begin with the first of these.

           First.
Secret Prayer.  When the
Christian re­tireth into some secret place, free from all company, and there
pours out his soul into the bosom of God, none being witness to this trade he
drives with heaven but God and himself. 
I shall here, 1. Prove this to be a duty incumbent upon us; and, 2. Give
the reasons why.

 

[Secret prayer a
duty, and the reasons why.]

 

           1.
I shall prove secret or closet prayer to be a duty incumbent upon us.  That is it is the Christian’s duty
secretly and solitarily to hold intercourse with God in prayer, I believe will
be granted of more than practise it. 
Even those that are strangers to the per­formance thereof carry in their
own bosom that which will accuse them for their neglect, except by long looking
on the light, and rebelling against the same, their foolish minds be darkened
and have lost all sight and sense of a deity.  If any prayer be a duty, then secret prayer needs be one.  This is to all the other as the carina
or keel is to the ship—it bears up all the rest.  If we look into the practice of Scripture saints, we shall
find them all to have been great dealers with God in this trade of secret
prayer.  Abra­ham had his ‘grove,’
whither he retired to ‘call on the name of the Lord, the everlasting God,’ Gen. 21:33.
Neither was Rebekah a stranger to this duty, who, upon the babes struggling in
her womb, ‘went to inquire of the Lord,’ Gen. 25:22, which, saith
Calvin, was to pray in secret. 
Jacob is famous for his wres­tling, as it were hand to hand, with God in
the night. Holy David’s life was little else, he ‘gave himself to prayer,’ Ps. 109:4.  Allow but some time spent by him for
nature’s refection and the necessary occasions of his public employment—which
yet came in but as a parenthesis—and you will find most of the rest laid out in
meditation and prayer, as appears, Ps. 119.  We have Elias at prayer under the
juniper tree, Peter on the leads, Cornelius in a corner of his house; yea, our
blessed Saviour—whose soul could have fasted long­est without any inward impair
through the want of this repast—yet none more frequent in it.  Early in the morning he is praying
alone, Mark
1:35, and late in the evening, Matt. 14:23.  And this was his usual prac­tice, as
may be gathered from Luke 22:39 compared with Luke 21:37.  Thus Christ sanctified this duty by his
own example.  Yea, we have a sweet
promise to the due performance of it—and God doth not use to promise a reward
for that work which he command­eth us not to do—but ‘when thou prayest, enter
into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is
in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly,’ Matt. 6:6.
Where our Saviour takes it for granted that every child of God will be often
praying to his heavenly Fa­ther; and therefore he rather encourageth them in
the work he seeth them about, than commands them to it.  ‘I know you cannot live without
prayer.’  Now, when you would give
God a visit, ‘enter into thy closet,’ &c.  But why must the Christian maintain this secret intercourse
with God?

           2.
I shall give the reasons why secret or closet prayer is incumbent upon us.

           (1.)
In regard of God.  He hath
an eye to see our secret tears, and an ear to hear our secret groans; therefore
we ought to pour them out to him in secret. It is a piece of gross super­stition
to bind this only to place or company: ‘I will,’ saith the apostle, ‘that men
pray every where, lifting up holy hands,’ &c., I Tim. 2:8.  God is everywhere to be found, at
church and at home, with our family and our closet; and therefore we are to
pray everywhere.  O what a comfort
it is to a gracious soul, that he can never be out of God’s sight or hearing,
wherever he is thrown, and therefore never out of his care! for it is out of
sight out of mind.  This comforted
holy David.  His friends and kins­men,
they, alas! were afar off.  He
might lie upon his sick-bed, and cry till his heart ached, and not make them
hear.  But see how he pacifies
himself in this solitude, ‘Lord, all my desire is before thee; and my groaning
is not hid from thee,’ Ps.
38:9.  Little
thought Jacob that he had a son prisoner in Egypt, laden there with irons that
entered into his soul.  But he
had a God that was nigh unto him all the time of his dis­tress, and heard the
cry of the poor prisoner, though his earthly father never dreamed of any such
matter.

           Great
and rich are the returns which in Scripture we find to be sent from heaven upon
the solitary ad­venture of the saints in this bottom.  ‘This poor man cried,’ said David, ‘and the Lord...saved him
out of all his troubles,’ Ps.
34:6.  As if he
had said, Haply you are afraid to be so bold to go alone and visit God in
secret.  Though you dare venture to
join with others in prayer, and hope to find welcome when you go with such good
company, yet you are ready to say, Will God look upon me, or my single
prayer?  Yes, behold me, saith
David, who am newly come from his door, where I lay praying in as poor a
condition, and as sad a plight, as ever beggar was at man’s—a poor exile, in the
midst of enemies that thirsted for my blood.  Yet I—and that when I betrayed so much das­tardly unbelief
as to scrabble on the wall like a mad­man—cried, and God heard.  Who then need be afraid, either from
his outward straits or inward in­firmities, if sincere, to go with a humble
boldness unto God?  Nay, further,
as God hath a pitiful eye to see when we pray in secret, so also an angry eye,
that sees when we do not.  I have
read of a prince that would, in the evening, walk abroad in a disguise, and listen
under his subjects’ windows, whether they talked of him, and what they
said.  To be sure God’s eye and ear
watcheth us, ‘the Lord hearkened, and heard it,’ Mal. 3:16.  And he that hath a book of re­membrance
for his saints that fear him and think upon his name, hath also a black bill
for their names who shut him out of their hearts and closets.  ‘The Lord looked down from heaven upon
the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, and seek
God.’  Though his seat be in
heaven, yet his eye is on earth; and what doth he observe but whether men
‘understand and seek after God?’

           (2.)
In regard of ourselves—the more to prove our sincerity.  I do not say that to pray in secret
amounts to an infallible character of sincerity—for hypocrisy may creep into
our closet when the door is shut closest, as the frogs did into Pharaoh's
bed-chamber.  Yet this is not the
hypocrite’s ordinary walk.  And
though his heart may be naught that fre­quently performs secret duty, yet, to
be sure, his heart cannot be good whose devotion is all spent before men, and
is a mere stranger to secret communion with God; or else our Saviour, in
drawing the hypo­crite’s picture, would not have made this to be the very cast
of his countenance, ‘When thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites
are: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues,’ &c.  ‘But thou, when thou prayest, enter
into thy closet,’ Matt.
6:5, 6. The command sends us as well to the closet
as to the church; and he is a hypocrite that chooseth one and neglects the
other; for thereby it appears he makes conscience of neither.  He likes that which may gain him the
name of religious in the opinion of men, and therefore puts on a religious
habit abroad, but in the meantime lives like an atheist at home.  Such a one may for a time be the
world’s saint, but God will at last uncase him, and present him before the eyes
of all the world for a hypocrite. 
The true lover delights to visit his friend when he may find him alone,
and enjoy privacy with him; and I have read of a devout person who, when the
set time for his private devo­tions were come, would, whatever company he was
in, break from them with this handsome speech, ‘I have a friend that stays for
me, farewell!’ It is worth parting with our best friends on earth, to enjoy
communion with the God of heaven. 
One called his friends thieves, because they stole time from him.  None worse thieves than they who rob us
of our praying seasons.

           (3.)
In regard of the duty itself, and the influ­ence which the holy management
of it would have upon the Christian’s life.  This duty is a main pillar to uphold the whole frame of our
spiritual building. Without this the Christian’s house—as Solomon saith of the
sluggard’s—will drop out at the windows. That which is most necessary to keep
the house standing is underground—I mean the foundation. That which keeps the
man alive is the heart in his breast, that is unseen.  Cease your secret communion, and you undermine your
house—you stab godliness to the heart. 
If the tree grow not in the root, it will ere long wither in the
branch.  He that declines this way,
can be a gainer in no other.  How
zealous soever he may appear, all, without this, is but a distempered heat, as
when the outward parts burn but the inward chill.  Such a one may pray to the quickening and comforting of
others, but he will get little of either himself.  The truth is, this is the first step toward apostasy.  Backsliders grow first out of
acquaintance with God in secret. 
Their delight in this duty declines by little and little.  then are they less frequent in their
visits.  Upon which follows a
casting off of the duty quite—and yet they may appear great sticklers and zealots
in public ordinances.  But, if they
recover not what they have lost in their secret trade, they will ere long break
here also.

 

 

 

USE
OR APPLICATION.

 

[What communion with
God in secret prayer,

or the neglect of it,
implies.]

 

           Use
First.  Let us here admire
the condescending love of God, in stooping to hold any communion with his
poor creatures, while they are clad with rags of mortality, and those besmeared
also with many sinful pollutions. 
It is not enough that in heaven, when we shall put on our robes of
glory—befitting the atten­dance of so great a King—that then he will take us in­to
his royal presence, and give us places with those that stand above him; but
will he even now, while our garments smell of the prison, and before our
grave-cloth es be quite thrown off, admit us to be so near an accession?  ‘What manner of love is this,’ that we
should now be ‘called the children of God,’ and as such have liberty to speak
our gibberish and broken language, and that with delight to him who continu­ally
hath the praises of blessed angels and glorified saints sounding in his ears!  Nay, yet more, this liber­ty to be
indulged us, not only when we come together and make up a choir in our public
worship, but in our solitary and secret addresses!  That a poor creature, whenever himself hath but a heart to
step aside, and give God a visit in any corner of his house, should find the
arms of so great a majesty open to embrace him!—this is so stupendous that we
may better admire than express it. 
Should we see a poor beggar speaking familiarly with a great king—who,
while all his courtiers stand bare before him, takes him into his embraces, and
lets him familiarly whisper in his ear —might it not draw forth our wonderment
at such an act of grace from majesty to beggary?  This is the glor­ious privilege of every saint on earth,
who, when he prays, hath liberty to come up to the throne of God surrounded
with glorious angels, and into his bosom to pour out his soul as freely as the
child may speak to his indulgent father. 
O thank our good friend and brother, the Lord Jesus Christ, for
this!  It is he that brings us into
the presence of God, and sets us before his face—as Joseph his brethren before
Pharaoh. Whose face need a saint fear to look upon, that may thus boldly speak
to God?  Comfort thyself with this,
Christian, when thou goest with thy petition to any great man on earth, and he
will not be seen of thee —or such a rich kinsman, and he will not own thee
—turn thy back of them both, and go to thy God, he will look on thee, and in
his Son own thee for his child. 
Thou hast his ear that can command their heart and purse too.  Jacob’s prayer altered his broth­er’s
purposes, that he who meant to kill him falls on his neck to kiss him.  Nehemiah had a boon to beg of the
Persian king, and he goes—a carnal heart would think—the farthest way about to
obtain it.  He knocks first at
heaven door: ‘Prosper, I pray thee, thy servant this day, and grant him mercy
in the sight of this man,’ Neh. 1:11.  And now to court he goes, where, behold, he finds the door
open before he knocks.  For the
king said unto him, ‘For what dost thou make request?’ ch. 2:4.  We may, you see, open two doors with
this one key.  At the prayer of
this holy man, God and man both give their gracious answer.  The Christian surely cannot long be in
want if he can but pray.  As one
said, the pope would never want money so long as he could hold a pen in his
hand.  It is but praying in faith,
and the thing is done which the Christian would have.  Be careful for nothing; but... let your requests be made
known unto God; and the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall
keep your hearts,’ &c., Php. 4:6, 7.  ‘Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust
also in him; and he shall bring it to pass,’ Ps. 37:5. the
saints’ bills are received at first sight, whatever the sum is. Christ is our
undertaker to see it paid; and his credit holds still in his Father’s bosom,
and will, to procure welcome for all his saints, even to the least and last of
them that shall be found on earth.

           Use
Second.  This blots their
names from among the number of saints that were never acquainted with this duty.  What! a saint, and content with what
thou hast of God, in joint communion with others, at church or family, so as
never to desire any privacy between God and thyself!  Canst find no errand to in­vite thee to speak with God
alone?  Thou bringest thy saintship
into question.  When a prince
passeth by in the street, then all—even strangers themselves—will come in a
throng to see him.  But his child
thinks not this enough, but goes home with him, must live with him, and be
under his eye daily.  Hypocrites
and pro­fane ones will crowd into public ordinances, but a gra­cious soul
cannot live without more retired converse with him.

           Use
Third.  Be exhorted, O ye
saints, to hold up your secret acquaintance with God.  ‘I am persuaded’ —as Paul said to
Festus in another case—that none of these things’ which I have spoken
concerning this duty, ‘are hidden from thee,’ if a saint.  ‘Believest thou’ that this is thy duty?  ‘I know that thou believ­est.’  Dost thou pray in secret?  I dare not question it; the Spirit of
Christ which is in thee will not suffer thee to be wholly a stranger from
it.  But I would pro­voke thee to
be more abounding therein.  ‘These
things have I written,’ saith John, ‘unto you that believe on the name of the
Son of God,...that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God,’ I John 5:13
—that is, that you may believe more. 
And these things do I now write to you that call upon the name of God in
secret, that you may call oftener; and this you need, except you lived further
from Satan’s quar­ters than the rest of your brethren do.  No duty more opposed by Satan or our
own slothful hearts than this.  The
devil can allow you your church prayers, your family duties, and now and then a
formal one in your closet too, and yet make his market of you. Therefore take
along with you these three or four directions for your better managing thereof.

 

[Directions for
secret prayer.]

 

           1.
Direction.  Let it be your constant
trade.  Rolling stones gather
no moss.  Unstable and uncon­stant
hearts will never excel in this or any other duty. The spirit of prayer is a
grace infused, but advanced to further degrees by daily exercise.  Frequency begets familiarity, and
familiarity confidence. We go boldly into his house whom we often visit.

           2.
Direction.  Let it be true
secret prayer, and not have its name for naught.  Take heed no noise be heard abroad of what thou dost in
secret.  ‘Enter into thy closet,’
said Christ, ‘and when thou hast shut thy door, pray.’  Be sure thou shuttest it so close that
no wind of vainglory comes in. 
Rather than there should, shut the door of thy lips as well as of thy
closet; God can hear though thy mouth delivers not the message.  It is true, when Daniel prayed he
‘opened his window,’ but it was to show his faith, not his pride—that he might
let the world know how little he feared their wrath, not that he coveted their
praise. God curiously observes which way the eye turns, and it is a dishonour
he will not bear that thou shouldst be pensioner to the world in expecting thy
reward from man and not himself. 
Lose not God’s euge —well done! for man’s plaudite—applause.  This is to change heaven for earth, and
that is a bad bargain.

           3.
Direction.  Be free and
open.  Come not to God in
secret and keep thy secrets from him; speak thy very heart, and hide nothing
from him.  To be re­served and
close is against the law of friendship. 
‘I have called you friends,’ saith Christ, ‘for all things which I have
heard of my Father I have made known unto you.’  Is Christ so open‑hearted not to conceal anything he knows
for our good? and wouldst thou have any secret box in thy cabinet, that he—if
thou couldst help it—should not see? 
Art thou confessing sins? 
Strip thy soul naked, and shuffle not with God. If thou dost, it speaks
one of these two things—thou hast some secret design of sin for the future; or
har­bourest an ill opinion of God in thy breast concerning thy past sins, as if
he would not be faithful to forgive what thou art free to confess; like some
prodigal child who, though his father promiseth to pay all his debts, and
forgive him also, yet because the sum is vast, dares not trust his father with
the whole truth, but conceals some in his confession.  The first of these is not the spot of God's children; but
into the latter they sometimes fall, and, for a while, may be held by Sa­tan’s
policy and their own unbelief.  But
consider, Christian, whatever thy sin is, and how great soever, yet the way to
obtain pardon is by confessing, not concealing it.  Neither is it concealed from God, though thou confess it
not.  But God likes a confes­sion
out of thy own mouth so well, that as soon as thou dost lay open thy own shame,
he hath obliged himself faithfully to cover it with the mantle of pardoning
mercy.  ‘If we confess our sins, he
is faithful and just to forgive us our sins,’ I John 1:9.  Again, art thou making thy requests to
God? carry no burden away upon thy spirit, through a foolish mod­esty and fear
of troubling God too much, or asking too deep, so long as the promise is on thy
side.  Christ never complained that
his saints opened their mouths, or enlarged their desires, too wide in prayer;
nay, he bids his disciples open them wider, and tells them, ‘they had asked
nothing;’ that is, nothing pro­portionable to the large heart in his breast to
give.

           4.
Direction.  It must be seasonable.  This gives everything its beauty.  (1.) Take heed that it doth not
justle with public worship. 
The devil takes great pleasure in setting the ordinances of God at
variance one against another.  Some
he persuades to cry up public prayer, and neglect secret; and others he would
fain bring out of love with the public, by applauding the other; whereas there
is room enough for both in thy Christian course.  Moses, though he killed the Egyptian, yet the two Israelites,
when scuffling to­gether, he laboured to reconcile.  Beware of giving Satan such an advantage as to neglect the
communion of saints in the public, under a pretence of praying in thy
closet.  This is to set one
ordinance to fight with another. 
They are sister ordinances, set them not at variance.  Deny thy presence in the public, and
thou art sure to lose God's presence in thy closet: ‘He that turneth away his
ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be abomination,’ Prov. 28:9.  (2.) Look that it interferes not
with thy duty in thy particular calling.  As thou art to shut thy closet door to pray, so open thy
shop windows for following thy calling in the world.  Go into thy closet before thy shop, or else thou art an
atheist; but, when thou hast been with God there, attend thy shop and calling,
or else thou art a hypocrite.  Thou
consistest of soul and body; God divides thy employment between both.  He that is not diligent in the duty he
owes God concerning both, is conscientious in neither.  When every part in the body hath its
due nourishment distributed to it health is preserved.  So here.  He is the sound Chris­tian that divides his care wisely for
his spiritual state and temporal also.  Sleep not away thy time for prayer in the morning, and then
think thou art suf­ficiently excused for omitting it because thy worldly
business calls thee another way. 
Jade not thy body with over-labouring, nor overcharge thy mind with too
heavy a load of worldly cares, in the day, and then think that the weariness of
the one, and discompo­sure of the other, will discharge thee from praying again
at night.  This is to make a sin
thy apology for neglecting a duty.

           Second.
Social Prayer—that which is performed in joint communion with others.  It is double.  Either it is private or public—family prayer or church
prayer. To this, however, we assigned a separate distinction.

 

[Social prayer
distinguished as

family
prayer or
church prayer.]

 

           Third Distinction.  Social and joint prayer is either
private in the family or public in the church.  I begin with the first—family prayer.

 

[Family prayer a duty
incumbent

on the head of the
family.]

 

           First.  Social or joint prayer may be private
in the family.  By a family I
mean a society of certain persons in mutual relation each to other, natural or
civil, who live together under the domestic govern­ment of husband, master, or
parent.  Wherever such a family is
found, it is the duty of the governor of it to set up the worship of God there,
and this part of wor­ship in particular—prayer in the family.  The Jews had their family sacrifice, Ex. 12:21,
which the master of the house performed at home with his family. There still
remains a spiritual sacrifice of prayer and thanksgiving, which every master of
a family is with his household to offer up to God.  The private house is the Christian’s ‘chapel of ease,’ to
worship God in daily with his company. 
The church began in a fam­ily, and it is upheld still by the piety of
private families.  If the nursery
be not preserved, the orchard must needs in time decay.

           Question.  But the question will be, how can it be
proved that family prayer is a duty?

           Answer.  I hope none will require an set place
of Scripture commanding this in terminis—in set terms, or else not
believe it a duty incumbent upon them. This were the way not only to lose this
part of God’s worship, but other duties also.  It will trouble us to find an express word commanding us totidem
verbis, or, in plain terms, to keep the Christian Sabbath, or to baptize
our infant children; yet, God forbid we should, with some, shake off the
ordinances upon this account.  That
which by necessary consequence can be deduced from Scripture, is Scripture, as
well as that which is laid down in express terms.  And if this will content you—which I am sure should—I will
hope to give you some satisfaction.

 

[How it can be proved
that family prayer is a duty.]

 

           1.
That general command for prayer will bring this of family prayer within
the compass of our duty: ‘I will there­fore that men pray every where,’ I Tim. 2:8.  If ‘everywhere,’ then surely, saith Mr.
Perkins upon this place, in our families, where God hath set us in so near
relation to one another.  Paul
salutes the church in Aquila and Priscilla’s house, Rom. 16:5.  And were they not a strange church who
should live to­gether without praying together?—had they deserved so high and
honourable a name if they had thus shut God out of doors?  This were to call them a church, as a
grove is called lucus, à non lucendo—from not giving light.  The Jews, when they built any of them a
new house to dwell in, they were to dedicate it, Deut. 20:5;
and the manner of dedicating their new-built houses was with prayer, as you may
see by the title of Ps. 30, penned on this occasion: ‘A Psalm and Song at the
dedication of David ‘s house.’ 
This they did—

           (1.)
To express their thankfulness to God, who had given them a
habitation.  Indeed, it is no small
mercy to have a settled place for our abode—a convenient house for ourselves
and relations peace­ably to dwell in; it is more than those precious saints had
‘who wandered in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens and caves of the
earth,’ Heb.
11:38; yea, than Christ himself had: ‘The foxes have holes,
and the birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay
his head. Matt.
8:20.

           (2.)
By this they were admonished to ac­knowledge them­selves tenants to God,
and that they held their houses of him, their great landlord, upon condition of
doing him homage, by making their houses as so many sanctuaries for his worship
while they lived in them.  So
Mollerus upon the place.

           2.
The trust which governors of families are charged with will evince it is
their duty to set up prayer in their families. Every master of a family hath curam
animarum—he hath the care of souls upon him as well as the minister.  He is prophet, king, and priest in his
own house, and from every one of these will appear this his duty.

           (1.)
He is a prophet, to teach and instruct his family. Wives are bid to
learn at home of their husbands, I Cor. 14:34, 35.  Then sure they are to teach them at
home.  Parents are commanded to
instruct their children, ‘Ye shall teach them your children, speaking of them
when thou sittest in thine house,’ Deut. 11:19.  And, ‘To bring them up in the nurture
and admonition of the Lord,’ Eph. 6:4.  Now, there is a teaching and admonition by prayer to God and
praising of God, as well as in catechising of them: ‘Teaching and admonishing
one another in psalms and hymns,’ Col. 3:16.  The master’s praying with his family
will teach them how to pray when by them­selves.  The confessions he makes, petitions he puts up, and mercies
he acknowledgeth in his family duty, are an excellent means to furnish them
with matter for their devotions. 
How comes it to pass that many servants and children, when they come to
be them­selves heads of families, are unable to be their relations’ mouth to
God in prayer—but because they have, in their minority, lived in prayerless
families, and were kept in ignorance of this duty, whereby they have neither
head nor heart, knowledge or affections, suitable for such a work?

           (2.)
He is a king in his house, to rule his family in the fear of God.  As the political magistrate’s duty is
to set up the true worship of God in his kingdom, so he is to do it in his
house.  He is to say with Josh­ua,
‘I and my house, we will serve the Lord.’ 
Were it a sin in a prince, though he served God himself in his palace,
yet if he did not set up the public worship of God in his kingdom?  Surely then it is a sin the gov­ernor
of a family not to set it up in his house, though he prays himself in his
closet.

           (3.)
He is a priest in his own house, and where there is a priest there must
be a sacrifice; and what sacrifice among Christians but the spiritual
sacrifices of prayer and thanksgiving?  Thus David, we find, went from public ordinances to private
duty with his family, ‘Then David returned to bless his household,’ II Sam. 6:20;
that is, saith one upon the place, he re­turned to worship God in private with
them, and to crave a blessing from God upon them.  And this hints a third particular.

           3.
The practice of saints in all ages hath been to have a religious care of
their families.  Good Joshua
promised for himself and his house that they would serve the Lord.  If he meant the inward worship of God,
he promised more than he was able to perform in regard of his family, for he
could not thrust grace into their hearts. 
We must therefore understand him that it should not be his fault if they
did not, for he would use all means in his power to make them do so.  He would set them a holy copy in his
own ex­ample, and he would take care that they should not live without the worship
of God in his family.  We find
Elisha praying with his servant, II Kings 4:33, mas­ter
and man together—queen Esther and her maids keeping private fast in her family,
Est. 4:16.  Now it were uncharitable to think that
she was a stranger to the ordinary exercise of this duty, who was so forward to
perform the extraordinary, and put oth­ers also upon it.  Surely this gracious woman did not
begin her acquaintance with this duty now, and take it up only at a dead lift
in her present strait.  That were a
gluttonous fast, indeed, that should devour the worship of God in her family
for all the year after. Cornelius’ family religion is upon record, ‘A devout
man, and one that feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the
people, and prayed to God alway,’ Acts 10:2.  Mark, he was ‘a devout man, and feared
God with all his house.’  Fear is
oft put for the worship of God. 
God is called ‘the Fear of Isaac,’ Gen. 31:53; that is, the God
whom Isaac worshipped.  ‘Him shall
ye fear, and him shall ye worship;...neither shall ye fear other gods,’ II Kings 17:36, 37;
that is, ye shall not worship or pray unto them.  Thus we may conceive Cornelius was a devout man, and feared
God with his house.  Surely he that
was merciful to the poor at his door, to refresh his pinched bowels with his
alms, could not be so cruel to his relations’ souls within his house as to lock
up his religion in a closet from them.

 

[Three objections to
family prayer answered.]

 

           Objection
(a).  But what necessity is
there that a family must meet jointly to worship God together? will it not
serve if every one prays for himself in his closet?

           Answer.  A family is a collective body.  As such it owes a worship to God.  It is he that ‘setteth the solitary in
families,’ Ps.
68:6; and as their founder, will be vouched by them. ‘Pour
out thy fury upon the fam­ilies that call not on thy name,’ Jer. 10:25.  It holds in domestic families as well
as national; foe he rears up the one as well as the other.  There are family sins; and these are to
be confessed by the family, as na­tional sins by the nation.  There are family wants, and they
require the joint supplications of the family. There are family occasions and
employments, and those call for the united force of the family, to pull down a
blessing upon their joint labours for the good of the whole society.  ‘Except the Lord build the house, they
labour in vain that build it.’  And
is it not fit that they who join in work should join in prayer for a blessing
on their endeavour?  There are
family mer­cies that the whole society share in; and is it not meet that they
which eat of the same feast should join in the same song of praise to the
founder of it?  In a word, there
are judgements that may wrap up the whole family, and where all are concerned
in the danger all should lend their help to prevent it—and many hand make light
work.  A rope twisted of many cords
is stronger than those very cords would be if single; and so the prayer of many
together more prevalent, because likely to be more fervent, than of the same
persons severally employed in their closets —though I would not learn one to
justle with the other.  There is
room for both; why should they fall out? 
Polanus (in
his Syntag. de Terræmotu) tells us of a town in the territory
of Berne in Switzerland, consis­ting of ninety houses, that was in the year
1584 destroyed by an earthquake, except the half of one house, where the master
of the family was earnestly praying with his wife and children upon their
bended knees to God.

           Objection
(b).  O, but I have not
abilities and gifts for such a work, and better left undone than spoiled in
the doing.

           Answer.  No more hadst thou skill and ability
for thy trade when thou wentest first to be an apprentice. Apply thy mind to
the work; bind the duty upon thy conscience; search the scripture, where matter
for prayer is laid up, and rules how to perform the duty. Study thy heart, and
observe the state of thy family, till the sense of the sins, wants, and daily
mercies thereof—which thou hast lodged in thy memory—be left warm upon thy
spirit.  In a word, exercise
thyself frequently in secret prayer, be earnest there for his Spirit to enable
thee in thy family service, and take heed of driving the Holy Spirit from thee,
whose as­sistance thou prayest for, by sloth, worldliness, pride, or any other
course of wickedness.  Then, up and
be doing, and thou mayest comfortably expect God will be with thee, both to
assist and accept thee in the work. 
Moses was sick of his employment that God called him to, and fain would have
put it off with this mannerly excuse, ‘I am not eloquent,...but I am of a slow
speech.’  But this objection was
soon answered: ‘And the Lord said unto him, Who hath made man’s mouth? or who
maketh the dumb, or deaf, or the see­ing, or the blind? have not I the
Lord?  Now there­fore go, and I
will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say,’ Ex. 4:11, 12.  His call was extra­ordinary, and his
assistance was such.  Thy call to
this duty, as the head of a family, is ordinary, and so thou mayest look for
ordinary assistance.  Haply thou
shalt never have an ability, to such a degree, with a flow of words to express
thyself as some others.  But let
not that discourage thee.  God
looks not at the pomp of words and variety of expressions, but sincerity and
devotion of the heart.  The key
opens not the door because gilt, but because fitted to the wards of the
lock.  Let but the matter of thy
prayer be according to God’s mind, holy and warrantable, and the temper of thy
heart humble and fervent, and no fear but thou shalt speed.  Yea, let the prayer be old—pray to‑day
what thou didst yesterday; be but sure to bring new affections with the old
prayer, and thou shalt be friendly received into God’s presence, though thou
canst not on a sudden put thy requests into a new shape.  God will not shut his child out of
doors be­cause he comes not every day in a new-fashioned suit.

           Objection
(c).  Others there are who
object not their own weakness as the reason of their not praying in their
families, but the wickedness of others in their family.  They are confident enough of their own
gifts, but question others’ grace, and whether they may pray with such.

           Answer.  I will grant there are such in thy
family.  But is this a ground to
lay aside the worship of God? Little thinkest thou whither this principle will
lead. By this principle the worship of God should not only be laid aside in
most private houses but in all our public congregations also.  If thou mayest not pray in thy family
because a wicked person is present, then not join in prayer with any public
congregation, be­cause thou canst never be assured that they are all godly; nor
must the minister pray there, for fear some wicked ones should be in the
company; and so this part of divine worship must be thrown out of the church
till we can find an assembly made up of all true saints; and where such a one
ever was, or will be on this side of heaven, none I think is able to tell.
Surely the saints in Scripture were not thus scrupu­lous.  How oft did Christ himself pray with
his disci­ples, though a Judas was among them!  I have else­where, clearly I think, proved it is the duty of
all, even of the wicked, to pray; and that God will never charge the act of
prayer upon him as sin, but his obliquity therein; much less will he impute to
thee another’s sinful frame of heart with whom thou join­est in prayer.  Pray thou in faith, and his unbelief
shall not prejudice thy faith, nor his pride thy humil­ity.  Thou joinest with him in the duty, but
hast no communion with his sin. 
You may as well say, if a cut‑purse in the time of prayer should pick
another’s pocket, that all the company are guilty of his theft. How much better
were it, Christian, to fear lest thou pray with a wicked heart in thy own
bosom, than with a wicked person in thy family?  Thou art like neither to hurt thy own soul by praying in his
company, nor better his by omitting for his sake.  May be, though he be carnal, yet he is outwardly complying,
and how knowest thou but thy prayer—especially in his pres­ence—may pierce his
heart, and give a lift towards his conversion?  Such I have heard of who have had the first sensible
impression made upon their hearts in this duty of prayer.  If he be not only carnal, but a mocker
at the worship of God, and a disturber of the duty, better thou shouldst, with
Abraham, turn such an Ishmael out of doors, than for his sake turn God out of
doors by denying him the worship due unto him.

 

 

 

USE
OR APPLICATION.

 

[Reproof to those who
unnecessarily throw

themselves to live in
families that are prayerless.]

 

           Use
First.  What we have said of
family prayer gives reproof to those Christians who needlessly, and upon
choice, throw themselves upon such families where the worship of God is not set
up.  Dost thou know whither
thou goest?  Thou art running with
Jo­nah from the presence of the Lord, and mayest expect a storm to be sent
after thee.  Haply thou art a serv­ant,
who once didst live in a godly family, where thou hadst many sweet privileges
and spiritual advantages —a table spread every day for thy soul as oft as for
thy body, besides some exceedings now and then of extra­ordinary duties—and
thereby didst enjoy a kind of heaven upon earth; but, for a little ease in thy
work, or gain in thy wages, thou hast made this unhappy change, to put thyself
under the roof of those who will sooner learn thee to curse and swear than to
pray; and where, by the orders kept in the family, thou canst not know a Lord's‑day
from a week-day, or whether there be such a thing as religious worship and
invocation due to thy Maker or no. 
Alas, poor crea­ture!  What!
wert thou even now in so green a pas­ture, and now wandering upon the barren
heath, where nothing is to be got for thy precious soul? —where, as on the
mountains of Gilboa, none of those heavenly dews fall with which thy soul was
wont to be wet and watered?  Truly
thou art gone out of God’s blessing into the warm sun.  Had God, indeed, cast thee by a necessary
providence on such a place, thou mightest then have hoped to keep thy spiritual
plight, though wanting thy former repast; but, being thy own choice, it is to
be feared thou wilt soon pine and languish in thy spiritual state.  Leanness is like to shrivel up thy
soul, while thou hast thy fat morsels in thy mouth.  Thy spirit will grow light and poor, though thy purse may
grow heavy.  We shall have thee ere
long complain, as Naomi, that thou ‘wentest out full, but comest home
empty.’  How darest thou choose to
dwell where God himself doth not by his gracious presence? He inhabits the
praises of his people, and takes his abode in the house of prayer. And if the
Holy Spirit dwells not, walks and breathes not in the house, it must needs be
haunted with the evil one.  Make
thy stay there as short as may be. Leave the dead to dwell with the dead, atheist
with atheist; thy safety will be to get among better com­pany.  Is the church so barren of godly
families, that no such are to be found who will open their door to let thee
in?  Go inquire where such live,
and offer to do the meanest office in that house, where thou may­est enjoy thy
former privileges for thy soul, rather than stay where thou art.  The very beasts groan to serve the
wicked, whereas holy angels themselves dis­dain not to minister unto the
saints.

           But
haply thou wilt say, it is not thy choice, but necessity.  Thou art by thy parents put apprentice
to a master that is wicked, or thou livest under thy own parents’ shadow, and
thou canst not help it though they be profane; or with a husband whom thou
didst hope, at thy choice of him, would prove a help meet to thy soul, but thou
findest it otherwise; what would you have us in this case do?

           1.
Mourn under it as thy great affliction.  Thus David did when he lived in Saul’s wicked family, whose
court and family, for irreligion and profane­ness, he compareth to the
barbarous Arabians and profane Ishmaelites, lamenting he was cooped up with
such, whom, by his relation, he could not well leave, and for their wickedness
he could worse bear. ‘Woe is me that I sojourn in Meshech, and dwell in the tents
of Kedar.’

           2.
Be the more in thy secret communion with God.  If thou didst live with a niggard[1]
who pinched thee for thy belly, wouldst thou not, though thou hadst but a penny
in thy purse, lay it out for bread rather than starve?  Thou hadst need have a bit the more in
a corner because thou art cut short of thy daily bread in the family.  Thy soul cannot live with­out communion
with God.  Take that thyself which
others will not be so kind to allow thee; and, that thou mayest do this,
husband all thy ends of time the better. 
Thou shalt thus, by God’s blessing, (1.) Keep thy spiritual life and
vigour; (2.) Be antidoted against the infection of that profane air thou
breathest in; and, (3.) Have a vent to ease thy incumbered spirit of those
griefs, reproaches, and trials thou canst not but meet with from such
relations.  Gracious Hannah had an
adversary in the same family—Peninnah by name —who provoked her sorely, even to
make her fret; but this sent her to God in prayer, and there she eased her soul
of her burden.

           3.
Adorn thy piety to God by faithful perform­ance of thy duty to thy relations,
though they be not so good as thou desirest.  Art thou a servant and thy master profane?  Be thou submissive and humble, diligent
and faithful.  Let him see that
thou darest not rob him of thy time by sloth, or wrong him in his estate by falseness—though
he be a thief to thy soul by not providing for it—but dost, with thy utmost
skill and strength, endeavour to discharge thy trust to him.  We see too oft that the unfaithfulness
and neg­ligence of some professing servants, do set their car­nal masters
further off from the worship of God than before they were; yea, make them loathe
the duties of religion, which otherwise they might have been won unto, till at
last they come to think all profession and forwardness in the duties of piety
towards God, to be but a hypocritical cloak to cover some unfaithfulness to
men, and to say of their servants when they beg leave to go to a sermon, and
wait on God in his ordin­ances, as Pharaoh of the Israelites, ‘Ye are idle, ye
are idle: therefore ye say, Let us go and do sacrifice to the Lord,’ Ex. 5:17.  Thus, as the apostle tells us, the name
of God and his doctrine comes to be blasphemed by the ill behaviour of
professing servants, I
Tim. 6:1.

           Again,
art thou a wife, and thy husband carnal, who lives without any care of his own
soul, or those under his roof? Pray the more for him because he prays not with
thee.  Pray thou for thy family in
thy closet, though he neglects it in the house.  But, with this, be sure to commend thy piety to thy
husband’s conscience, and make it as legible as may be to his eye, by thy
meekness of wisdom in thy carriage to him, and whole conversation in thy
family.  A fair print invites to
read the book.  Religion fairly
printed in thy meek and dutiful behaviour to him, and dis­cretion in all thy
affairs, how knowest thou but it may in time win him to the consideration of
the excellency of religion, which makes thee so officious and faithful to him?
He is an unwise angler that scares the fish he desires to take; and she an
unwise Christian that, by her peevish and undutiful carriage, offends her hus­band,
whose conversion she desires and prays for.

 

[Counsel to those
that live in praying families.]

 

           Use
Second.  A word of counsel to you
whom God hath planted in religious families.

           1.
Bless God for casting thy lot in so pleasant a seat and fruitful a soil for
thy soul, where thou mayest suck in the sweet air of God’s Spirit that
breathes from thy godly parents or other governors at the throne of grace from
day to day; that thou art not wedged into some blind atheistical family, there
to live with a godless crew, among whom thou mightest have passed thy days
without any knowledge of thy Maker, and with them have been involved in that
curse of God which is in the house of the wicked, and hangs like a black cloud
in the threatening, ready to pour down upon the families that call not upon his
name.  Look round thy neighbourhood
and see how many families there are who live like brutes, as in so many dark
caves and dens, where none of that heav­enly light is seen, from one end of the
year to the other, which shines on thy face every day.  What nur­ture and breeding should thy
soul have had under the tutoring of such parents and masters, who themselves
live ‘without God in the world?’ 
The queen of Sheba counted them happy that stood before Solomon, not so
much that they might see his pomp, but hear his wisdom.  O happy thou—if grace to know thy privi­lege—that
thou ministerest unto a godly master, art under gracious parents, or yoked to a
holy husband, from whose devout prayers, pious counsels, and Christian
examples, thou mayest gain more than if they had the wealth, delicacies, and
preferments of Solomon’s court to confer upon thee.

           2.
Look you make improvement of this spiritual advantage, or else it will
go worse with you than others. 
Rebellious Israel is told, ‘They shall know that they had a prophet
among them.’  The meaning is, they
shall know it to their cost; and so shall those that have lived in families,
under such governors who went before them, and, as it were, chalked out a way
to heaven by their godly example, lamenting over their precious souls so oft
with their prayers and tears.  If
such miscarry, they shall know to their terror what families they once live in
but had not a heart to prize or improve the mercy.  God forbid that any of you should find the way to hell out
of such doors, and force your way to damnation through such means af­forded to
prevent it.  What will Cain answer
when his father that begat him shall bear witness against him, and say, ‘Lord,
this wicked child of mine never learned his atheism of me.  I brought him to thy wor­ship and
taught him thy fear, but he liked it not, and first proved a murderer and then
an apostate.  First, he behaved
himself wickedly in thy service, and then ran out of thy doors and cast it
quite off.’  What will then the flouting
wife of David—who, though of a wicked stock, was privileged with so gracious a
hus­band—say when she shall be accused for making him her laughing‑stock for
his zeal in the worship of God? Or how will the wicked children of the same
holy man who walked with such uprightness in his house look their godly father
on the face at the great day? You, my children, said dying Mr. Bolton, dare
not, I believe, meet me at the day of judgment in an unre­generate state.  The weight of such holy men’s prayers
and admonitions will then sink their ungodly rela­tions deeper into hell than
others who drop thither out of dark and blind families.

 

[A word to those
heads of families that have

not the worship of
God in their houses.]

 

           Use
Third.  Unto you that are heads
of families, but yet have not had a heart to set up the worship of God in
them.  I am afraid God hath
little from you in your closets who hath none in your families.  It is no breach of charity to suspect
your care for your own souls that show none for your relations.  If ever thou hadst been acquainted with
God thyself and tasted any sweetness in secret communion with him, couldst thou
thus rob thy family of so great a blessing?  Could you find such a treasure, and hide it from them you
love so well?  Have they not souls
as precious in their bosoms as thy own? 
Art thou not willing they should find the way to heaven as well as
thyself?  Yea, art thou not God's
feoffee[2]
in trust to take care of their souls as well as of their bodies?  Dost thou owe no more to thy child and
servant than to thy hog or horse? 
Their bodies are looked to, and wilt thou do no more for the other?  How knowest thou but thy holy example
in the duties of God’s worship among them may leave such impressions on their
hearts as shall never be worn off to their dying day?  Did you never hear any, to the praise of God, acknowledge
that the first turn towards heaven they ever had was by living in such a godly
family, where, with the wor­ship of God, a savour and secret sense of the
things of God did secretly steal into their hearts?  Certainly were our youth more acquainted with the duties of
re­ligion in private, the minister’s work would be much facilitated in the
public.  By this the consciences of
many would be preserved tender, and so become pli­able to the counsels of the
word preached; whereas now the devil hath a sad advantage—from the irre­ligion
and atheism that is in most families—to harden their hearts to such a degree as
renders them almost impenetrable. 
It is no wonder to see that tree thrives not which stands but little in
the sun; and as little wonder to see them continue profane and wicked that but
once in a week come under the beams of an or­dinance, and then {neither} see
nor hear any more of God till the Sabbath comes about again.

           Alas!
how is it like the spark should then be found alive which had all along the
week nothing to keep it from dying? 
One well compareth the public ministry to the mason that builds the
house, and family governors to them that make the brick.  Now, if you, by neglecting your duty,
bring clay instead of brick, you make the minister’s work double.  The truth is, the neglect of family
worship opens a wide flood‑gate to let in a deluge of profaneness into the
church.  Thou livest now without
the worship of God in thy family, and haply in a few years from under thy one
hive swarms many other families, children or servants, and it is most like they
will follow thy copy. Indeed, it were a wonder that they who are taught no
better should do otherwise; and so irreligion is like to spread apace.  When thy head is laid in the dust thy
profaneness is not buried in thy grave with thee.  No, thou leavest others behind to keep it alive.  O how dismal is it to lay the
foundation of a sin to many generations! 
The children unborn may rise up and curse such.  If I had heard my father pray, may the
child say in a dying hour, or had been led into the acquaintance of the worship
of God by his example, then had not I lived like a heathen as I have done.
Well, as you would not have your children and serv­ants meet you in the other
world with their mouths full of outcries and accusations—or if this, because it
seems further off, dread you not, as you would not have them prove a plague and
scourge to you in this world—let not your family government be irreligious. It
is just that God should suffer thy servant to be un­faithful to thee in thy
estate, who art so to his soul; that thy children when old should forget their
duty to thee, that didst bring them up like heathens in their youth without
learning them their duty to God.

 

[A word to those
heads of families who do

have the worship of
God in their houses.]

 

           Use
Fourth.  To you that have
set up this duty in your families, a few words of counsel for the more holy
management thereof.

           1.
Think it not enough to prove thee a saint that thou prayest in thy
family; you may set up the wor­ship of God in your house and not enthrone God
in your hearts.  God forbid that
you should bless your­selves in this, and dub yourselves saints because of
this.  Alas! you are not as yet got
so far as some hypo­crites have gone. 
The duty is good, but the outward performance of it doth not demonstrate
any to be so. There are many turning to hell nearer heaven than this.  From the act therefore, look to the end
thou proposest to thyself in it. 
He is a foolish archer that shoots his arrow before he hath taken his aim
aright. The question God asks is, ‘Dost thou at all pray to me, even to
me?’  Thou mayest possibly affect
others with thy praying, yea, be instrumental to break their hearts by thy
confessions, and refresh their spirits by the sweet expressions that flow from
thee, thyself playing the hypocrite all the while.  It behooves thee therefore to consider what is the weight
and spring which sets this duty agoing in thy family.  Is it not to gain an opinion of being religious in others’
thoughts? If so, thou playest at small game.  Indeed, religion were a sorry thing if this were all to be
got by it. When thou hast obtained this end it will not ease thee of one stitch
of conscience, nor quench one spark of hell’s tormenting fire for thee.  But if this be it thou huntest after,
it is a question whether thou believest there be such a place or no.  these few principles well girded by
faith about the loins of thy mind—that there is a God, and he is a rewarder of
those that dili­gently seek him; that heaven is prepared for the sin­cere, and
hell gapes for the hypocrite—would be enough to set thy heart right in the
duty.  Though the traveller minds
not much his way where he appre­hends no danger, yet, when he comes to pass
over a narrow bridge, where a wry step may hard his life by falling into a deep
river that runs on each hand, he will surely watch his eye that is to guide his
foot.  This is thy case.  Prayer is a solemn work as any thou
canst go about in thy whole lifetime. 
A by‑end in this may hazard thy soul as much as a wry look thy body in
the other.  We need do no more to
lose our souls than to seek ourselves.

           2.
Take heed thou blottest not thy holy duties with an unholy life.  If thou meanest to foul thy hands with
sin’s black work in the day, why dost thou wash them in the morning with
prayer?  It is to no purpose to
begin with God and to keep the devil com­pany all the day after.  Religious orders in thy house and a
disordered conversation ill agree. 
O! do not render the worship of God base to the thoughts of thy servants
and family.  Those that like the
wine will yet nauseate it when brought in a cup that is nasty and unclean.  The duties of God’s worship command a
reverence even from those that are carnal, but if per­formed by those that are
loose and scandalous they grow fulsome. 
Eli’s sons made the people loathe the Lord’s sacrifices.  By thy religious duties thou settest a
fair copy.  O do not write it in
sinking paper.  It is but a while
thou art seen upon thy knees; and a little seeming zeal at thy devotion will
not gild over a whole day's sinful miscarriage spent in passion, idleness,
riot, or any other unholy course. 
It is said Christ preached with power and ‘authority, not as the
scribes,’ Matt.
7:29.  Not but
that they had authority to preach, for they sat in Moses’ chair; but because
they lost that reverence, by not walking suitably to their doctrine, which
their place and work would have giv­en them in the consciences of their
hearers.  ‘They said and did not,’
and thereby rendered their doctrine ineffectual.  If thou wouldst pray with authority and power, enforce thy
duties with purity of life.

           3.
Preserve peace and unity in thy family.  A brawling family cannot be a praying family.  The apostle exhorteth husband and wife
to love and unity, lest their prayers be ‘hindered,’ I Peter 3:7.  Conten­tions in a family, they both
hinder the spirit of prayer, and also the answer to our prayers.

           (1.)
They hinder the spirit of prayer. 
The Spirit of God is a Spirit of peace and love, and therefore delights
not to breathe in a troubled air. 
The ready way to send him going is to brawl and chide.  ‘Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God,’
saith the apostle, Eph.
4:30.  And that
we may not, hear what is his counsel: ‘Let all bitterness, and wrath, and
anger, and clamour, and evil speaking, be put away from you, with all
malice.’  When these are gone, then
(and not before) look for his sweet company.  You may as well dwell comfortably together with your house
on fire, as pray so together when you in the house are on fire.

           (2.)
Contentions hinder the answer to our prayers.  If we pray in anger, God cannot be pleased. ‘The wrath of
man worketh not the righteousness of God.’  A loud wind beats down the smoke.  Our prayers are compared to incense, but they will never
ascend to heaven till this storm be laid. 
Go to pray in this plight, and God will bid you come when you are better
agreed.  The Spirit will not help
in such prayers; and if the Spirit hath no hand in the inditing, Christ will
have no hand in presenting the prayer. 
And if Christ present it not, to be sure the Father will not receive it,
for ‘through him we have an access by one Spirit unto the Father,’ Eph. 2:18.

           4.
Be very choice whom thou makest a member of thy family.  Get, if thou canst, such under thy roof
as may give a lift with thee in thy family worship.  Though it be not thy sin to pray with a wicked wife and
servant; yet is it thy sin to make choice of such for thy relations, if
otherwise thou canst help it.  Yet,
alas! how little is this considered, though the blessing and comfort of the
family be deeply concerned there­in! 
A little beauty, honour, or pelf do too oft blind the eyes and bribe the
judgments of those we may hope to be themselves gracious, that they can yoke
themselves with such as are very unmeet to draw with them in heaven way and
work.  David knew that Mi­chal came
of a bad stock, but haply hoped to bring her over to comply with him in the
service of God, and we see what a grievous cross she proved to him. Solomon
tells us of some that trouble their own house, Prov. 15:27.  He that for carnal respects takes a
wicked wife into his bosom, or servant into his family, is the man that is sure
to do this.  Haply when he would
pray and praise God, his wife, like Job’s, will bid him curse.  When he is at duty she will despise him
in her heart, and make a mock of his zeal, as Mi­chal did of David’s.  And so they who, for some natural
abilities they see in a servant, venture on him, though wicked and ungodly, pay
dearly for it.  Such often bring with
them that plague of profaneness which infects the rest; so that, what they earn
their masters with their hands, they rob them of with their sins, which brings
the curse of God to their family. Who that is wise would build a house with
timber that is on fire?  If the
servant thou entertainest be wicked, fire is in him that will endanger thy house.  Make it therefore thy care to plant a
godly family.  This was David’s
resolution—haply he saw the evil of his former choice: ‘Mine eyes shall be upon
the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me: he that walketh in a
perfect way, he shall serve me.  He
that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house: he that telleth lies shall
not tarry in my sight,’ Ps.
101:6, 7. Then the music will be sweet in thy family
duties, when thou canst get a consort into thy house; such whose souls are in
tune for those holy services thou art to join with them in.

           5.
Keep a diary of thy family sins and mercies, that so neither the one may
escape thy confession and humiliation, nor the other thy grateful
recognition.  If this were
observed, we should not come with such jejune and barren hearts to the work, as
now, alas! most do.  Take some time
to affect thy heart with both of these. 
The brokenness of thy heart who pray­est, will conduce much towards the
same disposition in those that join with thee.  Nothing melts metal sooner than to pour on it {that} which
is melted. The drowsy speaker prays oft the rest asleep that join with
him.  Take heed, therefore, of
formality; this is the canker which eats out the very heart of religious du­ties.  Remember thou art to thy family what
the minister is to the public assembly. 
As the deadness of his heart in prayer and preaching hath a bad opera­tion
upon his people, to make them like himself, so hath thine on thy family.  Thou dost not only suffer a personal
loss to thyself, but wrongest the rest of thy company.  As when thou wastest thy estate, thy
wife, children, servants, and all fare the worse, and must pinch for it; so
when thou chokest up thy heart with inordinate cares of the world, or any other
way indis­posest thyself by thy sinful walking for the duty of prayer, thy
whole family goes by the loss with thee.

           6.
Observe the fittest seasons for duty in thy family, when with most
freedom and the least distur­bance it may be performed.  In the morning take the opportunity
before a throng of worldly business crowds in upon thee.  In some families, I have ob­served,
where they are in great employments, that if duty be delayed till some worldly
occasions be des­patched, then, either it hath been shut out, or shut up in such
straits of time that the slighty slovenly man­ner of performing it hath proved
little better than the total neglect. 
To prevent this disorder, it is best to forestall the world's market,
betimes in the morning to set upon the duty, and offer up to God the
first-fruits of the day, before our thoughts meet with a di­version.  We read that the Israelites gathered
their manna early ‘in the morning,’ and ‘when the sun waxed hot it melted,’ Ex. 16:21.  I would wish, espe­cially, such who
have multiplicity of worldly occa­sions, to take their time for communion with
God early, while their thoughts are more compact, before they are hot in their
worldly business, lest they then find their thoughts so diffused and scattered
among other businesses, as will not easily be gathered into a close and united
attendance upon God in the duty. Again, when night comes, delay not the work
till ye are more fit to go to your pillow than to your cushion, to sleep than
to pray.  If the eye sleep, the
soul can­not well wake.  Especially
consider your servants that labour hard in the day; O do not expose them to the
temptation of drowsy prayers!  If
our hearts took de­light in the work, we would plot and contrive which would be
the best time for communion with God, even as lovers do how and when they may
most privately meet together.

 

[Public or church
prayer required by God,

and the reasons why.]

 

           Second.  Social or joint prayer may be public
in the church.  We mean by
this, that prayer offered in and by the church assembled together for the
worship of God.  In handling of it
I shall endeavour these five things, to show—1. That God requires a public wor­ship
of his people.  2. That prayer is a
part of this public worship he commands. 
3. Why God requires a public worship, and in particular, public
prayer.  4. I shall resolve a
question or two concerning public prayer. 
5. I shall make some applicatory improve­ment of this head.

           1.
That God requires a public worship of his people.  This word, cultus, or worship in
general, is obsequium alicui præstitum juxta excellentiam ejus —worship
is that honour and service which we give to anyone according to his
excellency.  And that is three­fold—civil,
moral, or divine.  Civil worship
is the due honour and service we pay to a person in place and power over us, as
prince, father, or master.  Moral,
is that due reverence and respect which we pay to a per­son that hath any
excellency of virtue or place, with­out authority over us.  Thus we give honour and ven­eration
both to the saints living on earth with us, and to the saints and angels in
heaven.  Religious or di­vine
worship is the honour and service we give to that Being who, we believe, is
the author of our beings and fountain of our happiness.  Now this Being is God, and he
only.  To him therefore, and him
alone, is re­ligious worship due. 
‘Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God, and serve him, and shalt swear by his
name.  Ye shall not go after other
gods,’ Deut.
6:13, 14. 
This reli­gious worship of the true God comes under divers dis­tinctions,
inward and outward, private and public. The public worship of God is the
present subject of our discourse—that, I mean, which the congregation performs
to him in their religious assemblies, called ‘the congregation of saints,’ Ps. 89:5;
and, ‘the assem­bly of saints,’ ver. 7.  The church of God on earth be­gan in a family, and so did
the worship of God.  But when the
number increased, the worship of God be­came more public: ‘Then began men to
call upon the name of the Lord,’ Gen. 4:26; that is, they
began pub­licly, saith Mercer. 
Seth and other of the religious seed began to have their holy assemblies
for the serv­ice of God (Willet,
in locum). 
It is observable how God at the promulgation of the law on Sinai, when
he first formed the Israelites into a polity, took special care for erecting a
public worship to his name.  That
was the ‘day of their espousals,’ Jer. 2:2.  And then he insti­tuted a solemn form
of public worship, with exact rules how it should be performed.  The same care took our Lord Jesus for
his gospel church, in appoint­ing both church ordinances and officers to
dispense the same.

           2.
Prayer is part of that religious worship which the church is to perform to
God in her public assem­blies, yea, a principal part, put therefore
frequently for the whole, ‘The inhabitants of one city shall go to another,
saying, Let us go speedily to pray before the Lord, and to seek the Lord of
hosts: I will go also. Yea, many people and strong nations shall come to seek
the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem, and to pray before the Lord,’ Zech. 8:21, 22.  It is a prophecy how believers in
gospel times should zealously provoke one another to go to the assemblies of
the church—of which Jerusalem was a type—there to pray and wor­ship God
together.  ‘It is written,’ saith
our Saviour, ‘My house shall be called of all nations the house of prayer,’ Mark 11:17.  This was partially performed when
converts in the apostles’ days did flock to Jeru­salem, there to worship
God.  Sed perfectè impletum est
illud in Christi ecclesia ex omnibus gentibus col­lectâ &c.—it is more
fully accomplished in the church of Christ, gathered out of all nations, that
should keep up the worship of God in their assemblies.  St. Luke forgets not to mention this of
prayer amongst the other duties and offices of primitive Christians in their
assemblies, ‘And they continued stedfastly in the apostles’ doctrine and
fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers,’ Acts 2:42.  By continuing stedfast ‘in the
apostles’ doctrine,’ Mr. Perkins under­stands their attendance on the
apostles’ sermons; by ‘fellowship,’ understands their contributions to
the poor, which were gathered at their assemblies, a work very fit for that
place, ‘for with such sacrifices God is well pleased,’ Heb. 13:16;
by ‘breaking of bread,’ the celebration of the Lord’s supper; and by ‘prayers,’
those which they put up together in communion at their church meetings.  Nor is this of prayer crowded last,
because the least duty of the company, but rather because it hath a necessary
influence to them all. The word and sacraments, which God useth to sanctify his
people by, are themselves sanctified to us by prayer. And St. Paul, when he
hath shown, I
Tim. 1, what doctrine ministers are to preach in
the church, he, ch.
2, directs them what to insist chiefly on in their public
prayers: ‘I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplica­tions, prayers,
intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men; for kings, and for
all that are in authority; that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all
godliness and honesty,’ I
Tim. 2:1, 2. 
This the church of Christ ever esteemed a principal part of their public
worship.  Tertullian, speaking of
the assemblies of the church, saith, coimus in cætum et congregationem, ut
ad Deum quasi manu facta precationibus ambiamus orantes, hæc vis Deo grata est—we
meet in the congregation that we may by our fervent prayers environ God, as an
army doth a castle, and this holy fore with which we assault heaven pleas­eth
him.  I proceed to the third head,
to give some account.

           3.
Why God requires a public worship or a joint service of his people in
communion together, and why this particular duty of prayer.

           (1.)
As a free and open acknowledgment of their dependence on and allegiance to
God.  It is most rea­sonable we
should own the God we serve, even in the face of the world, and not, like
Nicodemites, carry our religion in a dark lantern.  He is unworthy of his mas­ter’s service that is ashamed to
wear his livery, and follow him in the street with it on his back.  ‘Thou hast avouched,’ saith Moses to
Israel, ‘the Lord this day to be thy God, and to walk in his ways, and to keep
his statutes, and his commandments, and his judgments, and to hearken unto his
voice.  And the Lord hath avouched
thee this day to be his peculiar people,’ Deut. 26:17, 18.  Even heathens understand this much,
that they owe a free profession and public service to the god they vouch: ‘All
people will walk ev­ery one in the name of his god, and we will walk in the
name of the Lord our God for ever and ever,’ Micah 4:5.  Now by walking in the name of God, they
mean they will invocate his name, and vouch him by a public worship, as you may
see by ver. 1, 2, of that chapter. 
And this is a gospel prophecy concerning the last days; where, by the
way, we may take notice of the folly and pride of those that cast off public
ordin­ances, and private also, from a pretence of their high attainments,
leaving these duties of religion as strings for those that are yet children to
be led by.  This is horrible pride
and ignorance to have such a high opinion of themselves.  But were they so perfect as they
falsely imagine themselves, and needed not any further teaching, yet ought they
still to vouch God by worshipping of him? 
The ground from which divine worship becomes due to God, is his own
infinite per­fections, and our dependence on him as the author of our beings
and fountain of our bliss.  Hence
it is, that angels and saints in heaven worship him, though in a way suitable
to their glorified state.  Some
ordinances, indeed, fitted to the church militant on earth, shall there
cease.  But a worship remains: yea,
it is their constant employment. 
Saints on earth serve God al­ways, but cannot always worship, therefore
they have stated times appointed them. 
Now to cast off the worship of God is to renounce God himself, and com­munion
with his church both on earth and in heaven. ‘But ye are they that forsake the
Lord, that forget my holy mountain,’ Isa. 65:11.  They did not give him his public worship,
and he interprets this as a casting him off from being their God.  Sometimes, I confess, the church doors
are shut by persecutors, and, when this flood is up, the ways to Zion mourn;
yet then we are to lament after the Lord and his ark.  Holy David was no stranger to private devotions, yet could
not but be­wail his banishment from the public: ‘My flesh longeth for thee in a
dry and thirsty land, where no water is; to see thy power and thy glory, so as
I have seen thee in the sanctuary,’ Ps. 63:1, 2.

           (2.)
To preserve love and unity in the church. God is one, and dearly loves
oneness and unity among his people. 
The reason he gives why he would have the curtains of the tabernacle
coupled together, that it might be ‘one’ tabernacle, Ex. 36:13-18.  The fas­tening of these curtains so
lovingly together for this end, that the tent might be one, signified the
knitting and clasping together of the saints in love.  Now, though this be effected principally by the inward oper­ation
of the Holy Spirit upon their hearts, for he alone can knit souls and knead
them into one lump; yet he useth their joint communion in ordinances as a happy
means through which he may convey and de­rive his grace that fastens them in
love together. These are the ligaments that tie one member to another in this
mystical body.  And do we not see
that Christians, like members of the natural body, take care for, and
sympathize with, one another, so long as they are united in one communion?  But when these ligaments are cut,
communion in worship is broke; then we see one member drops from another, and
lit­tle care for or love to each other is to be found among them.  The apostle saw good reason to join
both these in one exhortation: ‘Let us consider one another to provoke unto
love and to good works: not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together,’ Heb. 10:24, 25.  As if he had said, If you cannot agree
to worship God one with another, you will have little love one for
another.  When the Jews’ staff of
‘beauty’ was cut asunder, the staff of ‘bands’ did not last long unbro­ken, Zech. 11:10.  Religion hath its name â religando
—from binding back; it is a strong binder.  Break the beautified order of church communion, and a people
will soon fall all to pieces.  It
is observable how en­dearing conversation and communion is in things of an
inferior nature.  Scholars that go
to school togeth­er, those that board in the same house, collactanei
—that suck the same milk, twins that lie together in the same belly, they have
a mutual endearment of affection each to another.  How influential then must church communion needs be where
all these meet? —when they shall consider they go to the same public school of
the ministry, sit at the same table of the sac­rament, suck the same breasts of
the ordinances, and lie together in the bosom, yea womb, of the same
church.  This was admirably seen in
the primitive Christians, who, by fellowship in ordinances, were inspired with
such a wonderful love to one another, that they could hardly find their hearts
in their own breasts: ‘All that believed were together, and had all things
common; and continuing with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from
house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart,’ Acts 2:44, 46.  But when a breach was made in the
church’s communion, then love caught her cold, and grew upon Christians as
divisions increased.  Now one would
think the cause of our disease, being so easily known, the cure should not be
so hard, as, alas! at this day we find it.

           (3.)
For the saints’ safety and defence against their enemies.  Paul rejoiced at the order and stead­fastness
of the Colossian saints, Col.
2:5.  Order is a
military word, and denotes cohortem ordine apto conglobatam—an army
compact, and cast into a fit order that every part is helpful to each other for
its defence.  And such an army are
the saints when they stand in communion together according to divine rule.  Our blessed Saviour, when departing
from earth to heaven, what course took he to leave his disciples in a defensive
posture after he was gone?  Doth he
send them home to look every one to himself?  No, but to Jerusalem, there to stand as it were in a body by
joint communion, Acts
1.  The drop
is safe in the river, lost when severed from it; the soldier safe when marching
with the army, but snapped when he strag­gles from it.  Cain, looking upon himself as an excom­municated
person from the church of God, expected some great evil, as well he might,
would befall him. Therefore the gracious soul, meant by the spouse, is brought
in asking where the assembly of the faithful is, that joining herself to it she
may be protected in a rime of danger: ‘Tell me, O thou whom my soul loveth,
where thou feedest, where thou makest thy flock to rest at noon: for why should
I be as one that turneth aside by the flocks of thy companions?’ Song 1:7.

           (4.)
Because of the great delight he takes in the joint prayers and praises of
his people.  We need not
detract from the excellency of private devotions, to magnify the public prayers
of the church.  Both are necessary,
and highly pleasing to God.  Yet it
is no wrong to the private devotions of a particular saint, to give the
precedency to the public prayers of the church.  God himself tells us he ‘loveth the gates of Zion more than
all the dwellings of Jacob,’ Ps. 87:2. No doubt the prayers which the
faithful put up to heaven from under their private roofs were very acceptable
unto him; but, if a saint's single voice in prayer be so sweet to God's ear,
much more the church choir—his saints' prayers in consort together.  A father is glad to see any one of his
children, and makes him welcome when he visits him, but much more when they
come together: the greatest feast is when they all meet at his house.  The public praises of the church are
the em­blem of heaven itself, where all the angels and saints make but one
consort.  There is a wonderful
preval­ency in the joint prayers of his people.  When Peter was in prison, the church meets and prays him out
of his enemies’ hands.  A prince
will grant a petition subscribed by the hands of a whole city, which may be he
would not at the request of a private subject, and yet love him well too.  There is an especial promise to public
prayer, Matt.
18:20: ‘Where two or three are gathered together in my name,
there am I in the midst of them.’  Non
dicit ero, non enim tardat vel cunctatur, sed sum jam illic, invenior præsens
gratia et favore singulari, eo quod summopere me delectet hujusmodi concordia—he
doth not say, I will, for he makes no delay or demur upon the business: but I
am there—let them come as soon as they will—present by my special favour and
grace, because this concord in prayer highly pleaseth me.  It is the gloss of Lucas Brugens upon
the place.

           4.
I come to answer a question or two concern­ing public prayer.

           (1.)
The first question is, Whether it be lawful that the public prayers of the
church be performed in a language not understood by the people?

           Answer.  All the offices of the church, and
duties performed in its worship, are to be done unto edifica­tion.  This is an apostolical canon.  Now, none can be edified by what he
understands not, and therefore it must needs be, as Beza calls the popish Latin
service, ludibrium Dei at hominis—a mocking of God and man, for to
babble such prayers in the church which the people know not what they
mean.  ‘If I pray,’ saith the
apostle, ‘in an unknown tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my understanding is
unfruitful,’ I
Cor. 14:14. 
He means, the congregation are not the wiser for his understanding the
prayer he puts up, except he could make them understand it also.  We can no more be edified by another’s
intellect than be saved by another’s faith.  When God intended to defeat that bold attempt of those sons
of pride who would needs build a tower that should vie with the heavens for
height, he did no more but confound their languages that they might not
understand one another’s speech, and it was done.  Presently their work ceased.  And as they could not build, so neither can he edify the
people that understands not his speech in prayer.  A dumb minister may serve the people’s turn as well as he
who by his speech is a barbarian to them. 
For the minister’s voice is necessary in his public ad­ministrations, as
Augustine saith, significandæ mentis suæ causâ, non ut Deus sed ut homines
audiant, &c., —to signify his meaning, not that God may hear, for he
hears those prayers which the tongue is not em­ployed to express, but that the
people may hear, and so join their votes with his to God.  As the minister is to pray for them, so
they to pray with him; which they are to testify by their hearty amen at the
close.  But this they cannot do, if
we believe St. Paul, ‘How shall he that occupieth the room of the unlearned say
amen at thy giving of thanks, seeing he understandeth not what thou sayest?’ I Cor. 14:16.  ‘The heart of the wise teacheth his
mouth,’ saith Solomon, Prov.
16:23; that is, he will not, as we say, suffer his tongue to
run before his wit, but know what he shall speak before he sends his tongue on
his errand.  And surely, above all
this, wisdom is to be shown in our prayers, wherein we speak not to man but
God.  To say amen to that prayer
which we understand not—what is it but to offer the sacrifice of fools?  Holy matter in prayer is the incense to
be offered, the tongue is the censer; but the affections of the devout soul
bring the fire to the incense before it can ascend as a sweet perfume into the
nostrils of God.  Now, if the intellect
want light to understand what the matter of the prayer is, the affections must
either be cold or wild; and wild fire is unfit to offer up the incense of
prayer with.  It is not enough that
the praying soul be touched with some devout affections, but that these
affections be suitable to the matter of the prayer, yea, arise from the sense
it hath thereof.

           (2.)
The second question is, Whether a set form of prayer be lawful to be used in
the church?

           If
it be unlawful, it is because, by the use of a set form in prayer, some command
of God is transgres­sed; for where there is no law there is no transgres­sion.

           Now,
it will trouble those who decry all set forms —how holy soever the matter of
them be—to show any command upon Scripture record that forbids the praying by a
set form, or that disallows its use either in express terms or by necessary
consequence.  It will be granted,
yea must, that the Scripture is a perfect rule in this particular duty of God’s
worship, as well as in other.  But
among all the precepts and rules in the book of God, we find none that commands
we should pray by a conceived form, and not by a set form.  We are commanded who to pray to, to
God, and none other, Ps.
44:20; in whose name we are to pray, I Tim. 2:5; Eph. 5:20;
we are bound up to the mat­ter of our prayer, what we are to ask, I John 5:14;
and lastly, in what manner we are to pray—we must pray ‘with understanding,’ John 4:22; I Cor.
14:16; Heb. 11:6; ‘in faith,’ James 1:6; Heb. 11:4,
with sincere fervency, Jer.
29:12; in a word, which comprehends all in one, we are to pray
‘in the Spirit,’ Eph.
6:18; in the Holy Ghost,’ Jude 20.  Now he that can do all this need not
fear but he prays lawfully, and consequently accept­ably.  And we confess this may be done by one
that prayeth with a set form, or else we must very boldly charge many eminent
saints in scripture for praying unlawfully.  Who dares say that Solomon praised God unlawfully when he
used the very form which David his father had penned? or, that Moses did not
pray in the Spirit, because he prayed in a constant form at the setting forward
of the ark, and at its being set down again?  Thus you have seen what God hath prescribed to our praying
acceptably; and if it had been of such dangerous consequence to have prayed by
a set form, as to make our prayers abominable, would God have omitted to warn
his people of it, es­pecially when he foresaw that his churches generally in
their assemblies would make use of them, as they have done for thirteen or
fourteen hundred years? But may we not rather, yea undoubtedly we ought to
conclude, that seeing the Lord in his word descends not to prescribe what the
outward frame and order of our words in prayer should be, whether conceived ex
tempore, or cast into a form beforehand—only gives general rules that all
things should be done decently, that we be not rash with our mouth, or our
heart has­ty to utter anything before God, and such like that are applicable to
both—I say we should conclude both are lawful and warrantable, the Scripture
having de­termined neither the one way nor the other.  And therefore to put religion in one, so as to condemn the
other as unlawful, looks—as a learned holy pen hath it—too like superstition,
seeing God himself hath laid no bond upon the conscience either way.

           As
for the excellency of conceived prayer, where­in the devout Christian, out of
the abundance of his heart, pours out his requests to God, none but a pro­fane
spirit dares open his mouth against it. 
But is there no way to magnify the excellency of that but by vilifying
and imputing sin to the other? 
Alas! the evil is not in a form, but in formality; and that is a disease
that may be found in him that prays with a conceived prayer.  A man may pray without a form and yet
not pray without formality.  Though
I confess he that binds himself constantly to a set form—especially in his
private addresses—seems to me to be more in danger of the two, to fall under
the power of that lazy distemper. 
But to hasten the despatch of this ques­tion—for I intend not a full
discourse of this point, but would top a few heads only, which you may find
more largely insisted on in many worthy treatises on this subject—I would
desire those that scruple the lawfulness of all set forms, to look wishly upon
those set forms of blessing, prayers, and thanksgiving that are upon scripture
record, and were used by the serv­ants of God with his approbation, and then
consider whether God would prescribe or accept what is unlaw­ful.  The priests had a form of blessing the
people, Num.
6:24.  Moses
used, as I hinted, a form of prayer at the remove of the ark, ‘Rise up, Lord,
and let thine enemies be scattered; and let them that hate thee flee before
thee;’ and when it was set down another form, ‘Return, O Lord, unto the many
thousands of Israel,’ Num.
10:36, which very form was continued and used by David, Ps. 68:1.  Asaph and his brethren had set forms of
thanksgiving given them to use in their public service, ‘Then on that day David
delivered first this psalm to thank the Lord into the hand of Asaph and his
brethren,’ I
Chr. 16:7. 
This was the first appointed to be sung in the public service; the
several parts thereof were afterwards much enlarged, as you may see by
comparing Ps. 105 with the former part of the song in the place fore‑quoted,
and Ps. 96, with the latter part of it. 
At the dedication of the temple, Solomon used the very form of words in
praising God which his father had pen­ned, II Chr. 7:6.  Good Heze­kiah commands the Levites ‘to
sing praise unto the Lord with the words of David,’ II Chr. 29:30.  This holy man no doubt was able to have
poured forth extem­porary praises, as it is thought he did in that prayer which
he on the sudden, put up on the occasion of that railing letter sent him, II Kings 19:14;
yet did not think it unlawful to use a form in his public adminis­tration.  Yea, our blessed Saviour—an instance be­yond
all instances—both gave a form of prayer to his disciples, and himself
disdained not to pray three sev­eral times one after another the very same form
of words, ‘He left them, and went away again, and prayed the third time, saying
the same words,’ Matt.
26:44.  And that
hymn which he sang with his disciples is conceived by the learned to be that
portion of psalms which the Jews used at the celebra­tion of the passover.  (See Beza and Gerhard, Harmo, in locum.)

           5.
I come now to the fifth thing propounded in prosecution of this head of public
prayer, and that is some applicatory improvement of this head.

           (1.)
This shows what reason the people of God, wherever they live, have to pray
for good magistrates, especially kings and princes.  Regna sunt hospitia ecclesiæ—as the inn is to the
traveller, so kingdoms are to the church in its pilgrimage here on earth.  As they are, such is its usage in the
world, and entertain­ment that it finds. 
‘Pray for kings,’ saith the apostle, ‘and all in authority; that we may
lead quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty,’ I Tim. 2:2.
By godliness he means in an especial manner the free profession of the truth
and public exercise of God’s pure worship.  No magistrate may hinder the saints living godly as to the
embracing of the truth in their hearts and secret performance of prayer.  Daniel would and could pray, do
Nebuchadnezzar his worst. But princes carry the keys of the church doors at
their girdles, and an shut or open them. 
When faithful magistrates sway the sceptre, then the ways of Zion are
easy and open. When enemies to the ways and worship of God bear rule, then they
mourn; church doors are shut and prison doors opened to the serv­ants of Christ.  Then the woman flees into the wil­derness,
and the church into private chambers, as we find in the apostles’ days, when
the church was met with the door shut to pray for Peter.  O, pray for kings and princes; for, as
they carry the keys of the church doors, so God carries the key that opens the
doors of their hearts at his pleasure.

           (2.)
It reproves those that turn their backs off the public worship.  Now they are of two sorts—the profane
atheist, the scrupulous separatist.

           (a)
The irreligious atheist—such who, out of a profane spirit, turn their
back off the public worship of God. 
The Jews have a saying of one of their rabbis much in their mouths, quisquis
incolit civitatem in quâ extat synagoga, et inibi non pecatur, is est qui
meritò dicitur vicinus malus—he that dwells in a city where there is a
synagogue, and comes not to prayers there, he is a person that deserves the
name of a bad neighbour.  How many
bad neighbours do we, alas! live among, who are seldom seen in the public assem­bly
from one end of the year to the other? 
Many live as if they had rent the bond that was sealed at their baptism,
and renounced all homage to their Maker, and would tell the world they owe him
no worship. Worse brutes these are than the hog in their sty, or horse in their
stable.  They were made for our
use, and accordingly serve us.  Man
was intended for the service of his Maker—a creature made for religion —by
which some would define and distinguish the human nature from that of brutes,
rather than by his rational faculty. 
Indeed, in some brutes there is a sagacity that looks something like
man’s discoursive faculty.  But
religion is a thing their nature is wholly incapable of, and therefore nothing
makes man so truly a brute as irreligion. 
The Jewish Talmud pro­pounds this question, Why God made man vesperâ
Sabbathi?—on the evening before the Sabbath? and gives this as one reason, ut
protinus intraret in præ­ceptum—that is, God made man on the evening just
before the Sabbath, that he might forthwith enter upon the observation of the
command to sanctify the Sabbath, and begin his life as it were with the worship
of God, which is the chief end why it was given him. May we not therefore
wonder at the patience of God in suffering these ungodly wretches to live, that
by casting this horrid contempt upon his worship, walk contrary to the very end
of their creation?  If the bells
which call us to the worship of God were to give them notice of a wrestling,
foot‑ball, or drunken wake, O how soon should we have them flock together!  But prayers and sermons they care not
for.  What shall we impute this
irreligion and atheism of multitudes among us to?  Surely it proceeds from a criminous conscience.  It is said of Cain, ‘He went out from
the presence of the Lord,’ Gen. 4:16; that is, say some in­terpreters,
from the place where God had his church and worship, there God is especially
present.

           Guilt
indeed makes men afraid of God. 
This makes them {do} what they can to wear off the thoughts of a Deity
that are so troublesome to their flagitious consciences.  Now, to do this, they have no other way
than to shun those duties which will bring God and their sins to their
remembrance.  Herod was soon
persuaded to cut off that head whose tongue was so bold to tell him his faults;
and profane hearts are easily drawn to cast off those duties which will gall
and rub hard upon their sore consciences. 
But that man is in a miserable case that knows no way to get ease but by
throwing away the plaster that must heal his wound.  Ah, poor wretches! this will not serve your turn.  What though the prisoner stops his
ears, and will not hear the judge pronounce the sentence against him, will that
save him from the gallows? Surely no; but rather procure his being sent thither
the sooner for his contempt of the court, who, had he carried himself better,
and humbly begged his life at the judge's hand, might possibly have got the
sentence reversed.  Whether sinners
will hear the word or no, come to his worship or no, God will proceed in his
work.  Flouting against God, and
turning thy back on his worship, is not the way to prevent but hasten di­vine
vengeance.  How much better were it
to make thy humble supplication to thy judge, and wait at the posts of
wisdom!  While men, though bad,
wait on or­dinances, there is hope, for they are under the means. But when they
cast them off, then their ruin hastens.

           (b)
The scrupulous separatist—such who do not absent from the public worship
out of a profane atheistical spirit, as the former, but from scruples whether
they may lawfully be present at the prayers there put up, because there are
some maladministra­tions in the performance of it, or at least {that} which
they think to be such.  At these
they are distasted, and so withdraw. 
May be it is because the duty of prayer is performed with a set form,
which they con­ceive unlawful. 
This I shall waive, having spoken al­ready to it.  Or, may be it is not a form, but some
pas­sages in the form used, that offends them, and there­fore they dare not be
present.  So that the question will
be—

           Question.  Whether it be lawful to be present at
that service, or those prayers in the congregation, that have something faulty
in them?

           To
the answering of this question, we must first distinguish of faults, all are
not of a size.  There are
faults in a matter, and faults in the form and method, of a prayer.  And faults in the matter may be either
fundamental or of a less nature—such as are not fun­damental or bordering
thereupon; and those less faults may be generally dispersed through the prayer,
that it is soured throughout with them, or only in some particular passages.

           Again,
we must distinguish between approving of the faults, defects, and
corruptions that are in a prayer, and being present at the service of God where
some things are done faultily. 
Now I answer, that it is lawful for a Christian to be present at those
prayers wherein some things may be supposed to be faulty for outward form, yea,
and also in matter, in things not fundamental nor bordering thereupon, and
these not dispersed through the whole body of the prayers, but in some passages
only.  We may be present where God
is present by his grace and favour. 
We may fol­low the Lamb safely wherever he goes.  Now God doth not, for corruptions of
doctrine that are remote from the foundation, or of worship in things ritual
and of an inferior nature, cast off a church, and with­draw his presence from
it; neither ought we.  Indeed, if
the foundation of doctrine be destroyed, and the worship becomes idolatrous, in
that case God goes before us, and calls all the faithful after him to come out
from the communion of such a church. 
But, where corruptions in a church are of the former na­ture, and such
laws be not imposed by the church in their communion with it as being a necessity
of ap­proving things unlawful, the sin is not in holding communion with it, but
in withdrawing from it, and that no little one either.  Many things must be toler­ated for
maintaining peace and unity, and enjoying the worship of God, when it is not in
our power to re­dress them. 
Neither doth our presence at the ordin­ance carry interpretatively a
consent with it of all that is there done.  It is one thing to tolerate and another to approve.  Whoever said that all who are present in
an assembly by it show their consent to every imper­tinent phrase in the
minister’s prayer, corrupt gloss, or false interpretation he makes of any text
quoted in his sermon?  If this were
true, our Saviour led the people into a snare when he bade them beware of the
leaven of the Phar­isees’ doctrine, yet bade them hear them preach, Matt. 23:3.

           (3.)
Of exhortation.

           (a)
Make conscience of joining with the church in her public worship.  Do not think thou art left to thy
liberty whether thou wilt or not, but bind it upon thy conscience as a duty,
for so indeed it is.  You think it
is the minister’s duty to dispense ordinances. Surely then it is your duty to
attend on them.  He might as well
pray for you at home as come to church and not find his people there.  Is there a woe to him if he doth not
provide food for your souls, and none for you if you come not to partake of
it?  How can you reasonably think
so?  And when you come, think not
you are time enough there if you get to the sermon, though you miss the
prayers, which should prepare you for the word and sanctify the word to
you.  It is not the way to profit
by one ordinance to neglect another. The minister may preach, but God must
teach thee to profit. If God opens not thy understanding to conceive of, and
thy heart to conceive by, the word thou hearest, no fruit will come of it.  Now prayer is the key to open God’s
heart, as his Spirit the key to open thine.

           (b)
Take heed how thou comest to, and behavest thyself, as in other parts of public
worship, so espe­cially in prayer. 
[1.] How thou comest to public worship: take heed thou comest
not in thy filthiness, I mean, that thou regard not iniquity in thy heart.
Wash and then pray.  So David
resolves, “I will wash mine hands in innocency: so will I compass thine
altar,’—alluding to the priests, that went to the laver before they approached
with their sacrifice to the altar, Ex. 40.  It was counted a great presumption in
one that durst come near his prince with a stinking breath.  O what a bold act then is it to draw
near to the great God with any sin upon thee!  This is sure to make thy breath in prayer stink, and render
thee for it abominable to him. 
[2.] How thou behavest thyself in the duty; be sure it be with
a holy reverence—with an inward reverence and also an outward reverence.

           We
are to believe in the duty of worship with an inward reverence.  God is called ‘the Fear’ of his people,
because he is reverenced by them in their ap­proaches to him.  ‘Fear’ is put for the whole worship of
God, because no part of it is to be done without a holy trembling.  This, as the quaver to the music, gives
a grace and acceptableness both to our prayers and praises also: ‘Serve the
Lord with fear, rejoice with trembling.’ 
Now, to fill thee with awful[3]
thoughts of God, labour to set up a right notion of God in thy mind as
infinitely glorious in holiness, majesty, and power.  Irreverence is the product of low thoughts we have of a
person, which makes it impos­sible that an ignorant soul should truly reverence
God —how humble soever his outward posture is—be­cause he knows not what God
is.  A prince in a dis­guise is not
known, and therefore not entertained, when he comes, as when he appears in his
royal ma­jesty.  The saints use to
awe their hearts into a rev­erence of God in prayer by revolving his titles of
ma­jesty in their thoughts, Ps. 89.6, 7.

           We
are to believe in the duty of worship with an outward reverence.  God is a Spirit, yet will have the
reverence of our body as well as spirit, for both are his, and especially in
the public.  A prince would not
like a rude behaviour from his servant in his bed­chamber where none besides
himself is witness to it, but much less will he bear it in his presence‑chamber,
as he sits on his throne before many of his subjects. Now, the fittest gesture
of body in public prayer to ex­press our reverence is kneeling: ‘Come, let us
worship and bow down: let us kneel before the Lord,’ Ps. 95:6.
So Paul, taking his leave of the elders of Ephesus, kneeled and prayed with
them all, Acts
20:36.  And all
the Christians at Tyrus, accompanying Paul to the ship with their wives and
children, ‘kneeled down on the shore, and prayed,’ Acts 21:5.  Where that cannot be done, they should
stand—if debility of nature hinder not. 
As for sitting we do not find it com­mended in Scripture as a praying
posture; neither have the churches of Christ judged it so: sedentem or­are
extra disciplinam est, saith Tertullian—to pray sitting is not according to
the church’s order.  As for that, II Sam. 7:18,
David ‘sat before the Lord,’ it may be read, he abode or stayed before the
Lord.  So the word in other places
is taken; as
Gen. 27:44; Lev. 14:8; I Sam. 1:22.

           Again,
in the duty of worship we are to exercise attention and intention of mind,
that we may go along with the minister by our devout affections, and witness
our consent to the prayers put up with our hearty amen at the end of them, I Chr. 16:36; Neh.
8:6; I Cor. 14:16. 
Else indeed, we are as a broken string in a consort, that speaks not
with the rest, and thereby discomposeth the harmony. 

 

[The several kinds of
prayer distinguished

as ordinary or extraordinary.]

 

           Fourth Distinction.  Solitary and social, pri­vate and
public prayer, are either ordinary or extra­ordinary.  For the development of this distinction
I shall endeavour to answer these five questions: —First. What
extraordinary prayer is.  Second.
By whom it is to be performed.  Third.
What are the special seasons wherein we are to take it up.  Fourth. Why extraordinary prayer
is superadded to ordinary. Fifth. What counsel or direction may be given
for the acceptable and suc­cessful performance of this duty.

 

[The nature of extraordinary prayer.]

 

           Question
First. What is extraordinary prayer?

           Answer.
Prayer may be called extraordinary in a double respect: 1. In regard of the
time set apart for the performance of it. 
2. In regard of its adjunct.

           1.
Prayer may be called extraordinary in regard of the time set apart for the
performance of it.  Then it is
extraordinary when some more than ordinary portion of time is set apart and
devoted to this work. Thus we find Jacob wrestling till break of day, Gen. 32,
and Joshua with the elders of Israel till eventide; the one probably spending
the night, the other the day, in this duty.  And Israel, in their war with Benjamin, ‘wept and sat there
before the Lord that day till even,’ Judges 20:26.  We find Daniel many days together in
prayer, Dan.
10:12.

           2.
Prayer may be called extraordinary in regard of its adjunct.  Then prayer is extraordinary when
fasting is joined to the duty of prayer. 
Now, fasting is a religious abstinence, whereby we forbear the use of all
earthly comforts in the time set apart for this duty —so far as necessity and
decency will permit—the more to afflict our souls and enforce our prayers; as,

           (1.)
A forbearing of food, whether meat or drink, Est. 4:16; Jonah 3:7.  From this the whole action is called a fast,
which imports not a sober use of food—for this we are at all times bound to
observe—but a total abstinence, if necessity of nature, through some de­bility
and infirmity, doth not require otherwise.  For, in this case, the less duty must yield to the greater
—the end of fasting being to help us in prayer, which it doth not when nature
faints under it; for the soul cannot fly if the wings of our bodily spirits
flag.

           (2.)
All costly apparel and ornaments of the body.  Gaudy rich clothes on a fast‑day do no better than a light
trimming on a mourning suit: ‘They mourned: and no man did put on him his orna­ments,’
Ex. 33:4.  And this was by God’s own com­mand;
‘for the Lord had said unto Moses, Say unto the children of Israel,’ that they
‘put off their orna­ments,’ ver. 5.  In a word, all carnal mirth, music, per­fumes, and whatever
might recreate and delight the senses, are to be forborne upon this
extraordinary occasion.  See Dan. 6:18; 10:2, 3.  For, though abstinence from food, with
the other severities imposed on the outward man, be not in themselves acts of
worship, nor intrinsical to the nature of prayer, yet are they required in the
extraordinary performance of this duty by way of adjuvancy to it, and they have
a reference to spiritual ends.

           (a)
By this abstinence we acknowledge our un­worthiness to enjoy such comforts,
and that God may justly take from us what for a time we voluntarily deny
ourselves of.

           (b)
We express by our outward abstinence and fasting, the strength and vehemency
of those inward affections which are to be exerted in extraordinary prayer.  Men use to signify the violent passions
of their soul by forbearing the repast and delights of the body.  Is it a passion of grief one is
oppressed with? you will see him oft forsake his food.  Thus David: ‘My heart is smitten, and
withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread,’ Ps. 102:4.  Is it fear that pos­sesseth the heart
with the apprehension of some great danger impending and approaching? you will
have such a one refuse his wonted repast. 
So the mariners did in the sea‑storm, Acts 27.  Is it anger that vexeth a man?  Ahab was deep in his passion upon the
denial of Naboth’s vineyard, and he throws himself on his bed and will not eat,
I Kings
21.  Is it
desire of com­passing any great design that the head and heart is taken up and
transported with? such a one will not allow himself time for his meal.  ‘Cursed be the man,’ saith Saul, ‘that
eateth any food until evening, that I may be avenged on mine enemies,’ I Sam. 14:24.  We find the smith, in the prophet, so
earnest in his idola­trous work, that he pincheth himself with hunger, and he
will not eat though his strength faileth, nor drink though he be ready to
faint, Isa.
44:12.  Now, in
extra­ordinary prayer the Christian is to have all these af­fections in a
spiritual and holy manner wound up to the highest key possible.  He is to have a deep sorrow for sin,
fear and trembling at the judgments of God feared to come for them; a holy
anger and indignation against sin, with a vehement desire to be revenged on it
for the dishonour it hath cast upon God; and, in a word, a longing desire to
make his peace with God and recover his favour, which sin hath unhappily de­prived
him of.  Now, because the excess of
natural passions discovers itself this way, even to afflict their very bodies,
and makes them deny themselves that which nature most craves, therefore God
will have his people in their extraordinary humiliations do the same, that
nature may not put grace to shame.

           (c)
By this abstinence, especially from food, we tame and subdue our wanton flesh,
and so come to have a greater advantage for mortifying those sensual lusts
that receive the fuel which feeds and inflames them from the flesh.  A full body is a mellow soil for such
lusts to grow rank in.  Cum
carne nutriuntur vita carnis—the lusts of the flesh are nourished when the
body is pampered.  If the body be
kept high, carnal lusts will not easily be kept low.  What else made Paul to beat down his body by fasting and
watching, in which he was often, but that he might have the fuller blow at
those lusts that received strength from it?  Nostrum est lasciviens jumentum frænis inediæ subjugare,
ut sessorem Spiritum sanctum moderato et composito portet incessu (Hieronymus, Epist.
9)—in­deed a pampered horse is most like to cast his rider;
and the Holy Spirit, using the body as well as soul in the work, this bridle of
fasting is of excellent use to curb it.

           (d)
This abstinence from food is required to sharpen our spirits, and enliven
the powers of the soul in this duty, which are pressed down and thick­ened,
as I may so say, with the charge of the stomach. A full body makes a heavy eye
and drowsy spirits; and what can then be expected but yawning prayers, es­pecially
when we are to continue longer than ordinary at the work?

 

[By whom extraordinary prayer is to be
performed.]

 

           Question
Second.  Who are they that are called
to the practice of this duty of extraordinary prayer?

           Answer.  The command comprehends all that by age
are enabled to understand the nature of this duty when any extraordinary
occasion occurs for the per­formance of the same.  We find it required of a church and nation.  It is the magistrate’s duty, when there
is a national cause, to call his subjects to the public practice of this duty, Joel 2:15; Neh. 9:1;
and he that re­fuseth his call thereunto makes himself an of­fender both to God
and man, Lev.
23:29.  It
reacheth to private families. 
Esther and her maidens keep a re­ligious fast together Est. 4:16.  Yea, it is a duty bound upon single
persons, and reacheth to the secret closet, ‘But thou, when thou fastest,
anoint thine head, and wash thy face; that thou appear not unto men to fast,
but unto thy Father which is in secret,’ Matt. 6:17, 18.  The circumstances of the place show it
is meant of a secret fast in the closet. 
We have them all together in one place, ‘The land shall mourn;’ there is
a national fast: every family apart, the family of the house of David, and the
house of Nathan apart,’ &c.; there is domestical: ‘and their wives apart;’ Zech. 12:12;
there is a personal secret fast in the closet.

           Objection.  But is not this extraordinary prayer
and fasting too austere and rigid a duty for gospel times?  Where doth Christ command his people in
gospel times to macerate their bodies with such sever­ities as these?  Joy and praise better becomes the free­dom
and liberty of the gospel.

           Objection
met.  Such wild stuff hath been
vented by some in our late loose times. 
These are a new sort of saints, which the world hath hardly been ac­quainted
with before these unhappy days of ours; they would be in heaven before their
time, and leave no tears on their cheeks for Christ at death to wipe away.  If any of these could live without sin
and suffering they would have some colour for their plea; though even then,
being yet ‘in the body,’ they should owe those tears to their brethren which
they need not drop for themselves. 
The apostle I am sure bids us ‘weep with those that weep,’ and mourn
with those that mourn, Rom.
12:15.  Thus did
Nehemiah fast for his afflicted brethren in Jerusalem when his own affairs were
prosperous enough—being surrounded with the beams of the Persian emperor’s
favour.  But there are none in
mortal flesh free from sin or exempted from sorrow; and therefore a mourning
habit may sometimes become the best of saints on earth.  ‘They that wear soft clothing are in
kings’ houses,’ Matt.
11:8.

           Glorified
saints, who dwell in the King of heav­en’s court, are always clad with joy, but
this on earth is the saint’s holiday suit.  As he hath now and then his rejoicing days, so he wants not
his days for mourning.  ‘The days
will come,’ saith our Saviour of his disciples, ‘when the bridegroom shall be
taken from them, and then shall they fast,’ Matt. 9:15—and surely they
lived in gospel times.  If these
merry pro­fessors had been by Paul to see him how he beat down his body and
chastised himself with fasting, they sure­ly would have chid him for his pains,
and thought him ignorant of his Christian liberty.  The worst I wish these poor deluded souls is, that they who
are so much for joy here meet with no mourning in another world.  It is but an ill sign when men quarrel
with a duty for its strictness, and slip the yoke off their necks because the
wanton flesh saith it is uneasy. 
These are like Ephraim, whom the prophet compares to a heifer ‘that
loveth to tread out the corn,’ but not to plough.  That is hard hungry work.  A thanksgiving day, that brings a feast with it.  This they like, and are content it
should pass for a gospel duty.  But
a day of prayer and fasting, wherein they are to pinch their carcass a little,
this will not go down.  But is
there no feast ex­cept that it goes down the throat and fills the belly?
Certainly this blessed duty deserves not the ill name it hath given unto it by
men of sensual spirits.  It is
indeed to carnal wretches a heavy yoke, a tedious work.  As the milk kine carried the ark went
bellowing for their calves that were taken from them, so do these in a fast‑day
after their employments and enjoy­ments of the world, from which they are for
that time restrained.  Alas! poor
creatures, as the ark was noth­ing but a burden to the kine, so the duty is no
other to them.  But the true saint,
that knows what ease his poor heart feels in exonerating his conscience by
humble confession of sin, what sweet satisfaction his soul meets with in
communion with God, and what faith and inward peace he carries away with him
from the duty, will give you another character of this ordin­ance than so.  He will tell you he had rather be
fasting with God that feasting at a king’s table.  What saint had not rather be fasting on the mount with
Moses, than eating and playing with the carnal Israelites below the hill?  Who would not miss a meal for his body,
to satiate his soul with those delights that the presence of God in such an
ordinance affords?  Who would not
take pleasure in mourning and weeping for sin, to have the tears he shed dried
up with kisses from his Saviour's mouth? 
It is indeed to him that stands sucking of the bush—I mean the external
part of the duty—a dry sapless service; but to him that is taken into the wine‑cellar,
and there drinks full draughts of the love of God, it is a most sweet
soul-ravishing ordinance.  The lower
exterior part of the duty, like the bottom of Jacob’s ladder, stands on the
earth, and leaves the creature on the earth also where it found him—for ‘bodily
exercise profiteth little;’ but the top and spiritual part of it reacheth to
heaven, and mounts the gracious soul thither, even unto bosom communion with
God.  There is as much dif­ference
between a saint and a hypocrite or carnal soul in this duty, as there is
between a thief locked up with his keeper in a prison, and a scholar locking up
him­self in his study to read some book that he is greatly delighted with; to
the one it is a grievous burden, to the other an incomparable pleasure.

 

[The seasons for extraordinary
prayer.]

 

           Question
Third. What are the special seasons wherein the Christian is to take up
the practice of this duty of extraordinary prayer?

           Answer.
I answer, in general, any extraordinary occasion, as it emergeth in the
course of providence in the Christian’s life.  This kind of prayer is not of constant use, as ordinary
prayer is; this is food, that physic. 
And it were absurd to be taking physic all the year long; which shows
the folly of the Papists in their fasts, which are holden at set times, whether
affairs be prosperous or not prosperous, ordinary or extraordin­ary.  I would not be thought here to speak
against set fasts; we have had our monthly fasts, but the extra­ordinary cause
for which they were appointed contin­ued. 
But to instance in a few special seasons wherein the Christian hath a
fit occasion to make use of this extraordinary duty.

           Season
1. When the Christian is to set upon any more than ordinary enterprise,
wherein he may meet with great difficulty or danger, and the issue whereof will
be a great mercy or affliction. 
Now is a fit season to take up this extraordinary duty, as an excellent
means whereby all mountains of intervening diffi­culties may be levelled, and
his undertaking be crowned with happy success.  Thus Esther, before she adventured upon that heroic attempt
of going un­called into the king’s presence to beg the life of her people,
given to the butchery and slaughter by the king’s seal at bloody Haman’s
request—an action that carried death and danger on the face of it—she first
goes to God by fasting and prayer, and gets all the auxiliary forces of others’
prayers she can, and, at­tended with this convoy, she, against the Persian law,
presents herself before the king, and speeds; for in­stead of losing her own
life, which was forfeited by the law for this attempt, she reverseth the unjust
judg­ment passed upon the life of her people, and recoils it upon the head of
him that laid the plot.  Prayer had
so unlocked and opened the king’s heart that she hath but what she asks at the
king’s hands.

           No
such engine to facilitate and carry on any great design to its desired end as
this of extraordinary prayer.  Who
could have believed that Ezra and his company of pilgrims should all get safe
from Babylon to Jerusalem, being so generally hated everywhere? Now what
stratagem doth this leader of his people use to secure his passage and escape
the fury of his ene­mies?  Doth he
desire a band of the Persian king to be their guard?  No; he hath gloried so much of that God they served, that he
is ashamed the king should think now he was not willing to cast himself upon
his protection; but he goes to fasting and prayer, Ezra 8:21.
Then they take their march, and find the way all along cleared before them, ver. 31.  Our blessed Sav­iour hath sanctified
this duty for this end in his own holy example, who, when to choose and send
forth the twelve to preach the gospel, that they may speed the better in their
embassy, he sends them forth un­der the conduct of prayer, and to that end
spends the preceding night himself in prayer, Luke 6:12, 13.  Now, though every Christian is not called
forth, or likely to be in all his life, to such great and public enterprises as
some others are, yet if he will observe the several passages of his more
private employments and turns of providence in the course of his life, he shall
find many such actions occur as give him a fair hint to make use of this
duty.  Haply thou art to enter upon
a calling, or, in the calling thou art, meetest with many difficulties and
temptations.  Thou hast a long
journey or dangerous voyage to take; thou hast to do with a subtle potent
adversary, though thy cause be good, yet like to outwitted or overborne.  Here is a fair errand put into thy
mouth to go before the Lord for counsel, assistance, and protection.  May be thou hast children, and these
are to be disposed of into callings or new relations; and is not this a great
undertaking wherein tou hast a great adventure going in their bottom?  Will not the issue that depends on this
great change of their condition lay the foundation of much grief or joy to
thee?  Yet how slighty are many
herein, as if it were of little more importance to marry a child than it is to
put off a horse or cow at a fair! 
Few matches are, alas! thus made in heaven—I mean by solemn prayer
engaging God in the business. Abraham’s servant puts many parents to shame—he
hard at prayer for success in his journey when sent to take a wife for his
master’s son, and not they for their children.  But I wonder not that they who propound low and carnal ends
to themselves in such enter­prises, should forget by prayer both to ask his
counsel in the match, or invite him to offer his blessing at the wedding.

           Season
2. When the Christian is in the dark con­cerning any truth, and cannot
satisfy his judgment by humble and diligent inquiry he hath made after it.
Now is a fit season to take up this extraordinary duty as an excellent means to
be led into the knowledge of the mind of God therein.  Prayer is the proper key to unlock God’s heart, and he alone
can open our un­derstandings and satisfy our scruples.  This course Daniel took, and got more
understanding by his fasting and prayer than by all his study, for a mes­senger
is sent from heaven to ‘give him skill and understanding,’ Dan. 9:20-23, and
again, ch. 10:12. 
In both he sped.  And the
angel is careful to let him know that it was his extraordinary praying that
procured this extraordinary favour, and also how acceptable his motion was, by
the easy access and quick despatch it found with God; and therefore tells him
in both, that he had no sooner set upon this course of afflicting his soul but
he was heard, and the messenger ordered to give him an answer to his
prayer.  Surely prayer hath not
lost its credit in heaven, but is now as welcome to God as ever; and though an
angel be not the mes­senger to bring the saint an answer, yet he shall have it
by as sure and more honourable hand—even the Holy Spirit, whose office is to
lead his people into truth.  Thus
Cornelius, Acts
10, came to be instructed in the mystery of the gospel,
upon his extraordinary seeking of God by fasting and prayer.  It is very prob­able this good man in
those divided times, wherein he saw many zealous for the old way of Jewish
worship, and others preach up an new way, stood in some doubt what to do; and
this might stir him up by fast­ing and prayer to ask counsel, and beg further
light, of God, to direct him in the way of truth, as may seem by the tenor of
the message sent him from God in the vision while he was at prayer, which bade
him send to Joppa ‘for one Simon, whose surname is Peter,...and he shall tell
thee what thou oughtest to do,’ ver. 5, 6. And certainly, in our divided times,
wherein there is so much difference in judgment, had there been less wrangling
among ourselves, and more wrestling with God for his teaching Spirit, we had
been in a fairer way to find the door of truth, which so many are yet groping
for.  The way of controversies, and
conten­tious disputes raise this dust, and blow it most into their eyes that
gallop fastest in it, so that they miss the truth, which humble souls find upon
their knees at the throne of grace. 
When the apostles were quar­relling, then they got nothing from Christ
but a chid­ing, Luke
22:24, &c.; but when they were praying to­gether
earnestly, then he sent the Spirit to teach them, Acts 2.

           Season
3. When the Christian is under any great affliction.  Now is a fit season if he be able for
the work.  ‘Is any among you
afflicted? let him pray,’ James
5:13.  That is,
let him then be more than ordin­ary in this duty; for he must, yea will, if a
Christian, pray where he is not afflicted as well as when he is. But the
meaning is, he must now pray after an extra­ordinary manner; he must now pray
with more vehe­mency; for, though in all our addresses to God, we are to
express the lively workings of our hearts to him, without which our prayers are
unsavoury (cold prayers ever find cold welcome); yet God expects, and it always
hath been the care of, holy men in their extraordinary applications to this
duty of prayer, to wind up their affections to a pitch higher than ordin­ary,
having the advantage of some special occasion to help them thereunto. Look upon
them in some great strait and affliction, and you shall find them exceeding
themselves, and put upon them a prince-like spirit.  So Jacob behaved himself in prayer, Gen. 32:28.  As a prince fighting in the field for
his crown and kingdom, he wrestled with the angel, who was no other than God
himself; that is, he strained as it were, every vein in his heart, and put
forth his whole might in prayer, as a wrestler would do that grapples with a
potent adversary.  Moses is so
transported in zeal for Israel, when a dismal cloud of wrath impended them for
their idolatry, that he offers rather to die upon the place, than to go down
the mount and not carry the joyful news of a pardon with him, Ex. 32:32.  And Nehemiah, when he had been
afflicting his soul and praying before the Lord, it was with such vehemency
that the anguish of his spirit looked out at his eyes, and left a mark of
sorrow upon his very countenance, which his prince could observe as he waited
on him.

           Again,
in affliction we are called to pray, as more inten­sively, so more extensively;
I mean longer and oftener.  Thus I
find that ¦6J,<,FJ,D@<
BD@F0b­>"J@
of our Saviour, rendered by Lucas Brugensis and others, prolixius orabat—he
prayed longer, that is, he spent more time than ordinary in it.  Thrice one after another we find him at
it, Matt.
26:44.  His agony
was great and the waves of his affliction vio­lent, and therefore he doubles,
yea trebles, his prayer with deep sighs and strong cries to his Father.  Nature never strains so to its utmost,
as when it is oppressed; then temples work, lungs heave, and heart pants; so in
affliction the spirit of prayer should be increased and intended.

           Season
4.  When the Christian is
buffeted with any temptation, or overpowered with a corruption, and cannot,
with the use of ordinary means, quench the one or master and mortify the other.  If the short dagger of ordinary prayer
will not reach the heart of a lust, then it is time to draw out this long sword
of extraordinary prayer upon it. 
There is a ‘kind’ of devils, our Saviour tells us, that ‘goes not out
but by prayer and fasting,’ Matt. 17:21.  You know the occa­sion of this speech
was that complaint of one con­cerning his lunatic son, ‘I brought him to thy
disciples and they could not cure him.’ 
Thus some poor souls complain they have come to the word preached so
long, in their daily prayers begged power over such a lust, resolved against it
many a time, and none of these means could cure it; what can they now do
more?  Here thou art told.  Bring thy condition to Christ in this
solemn ordinance of prayer and fasting; this hath at last been the happy means
to strengthen many a poor Christian to be avenged on those spir­itual enemies
which have outbraved all the former, and like Samson to pull down the devil’s
house upon his head.

           Season
5.  When sin doth abound
more than or­dinary in the times and places we live in.  Sinning times have ever been the
saints’ praying times.  This sent
Ezra with a heavy heart to confess the sin of his people, and to bewail their
abominations before the Lord, Ezra 9.  And Jeremiah tells the wicked rout of his degenerate age
that his ‘should weep in secret places for their pride,’ Jer. 13:17.  Indeed sometimes sin comes to such a
height and insolence, that this is almost all the godly can do, to get into a
corner and bewail the general pollutions of the present age; as he told Luther,
abi, frater, in cellam et dic miserere Domine—go, brother, into a cell
and bewail.  ‘If the foundations be
destroyed, what can the righteous do?’ Ps. 11:3.  Such dismal days of national confusion
our eyes have seen, when foundations of government were destroyed, and all
hurled into a military confusion. When it is thus with a people, what can the
righteous do?  Yes, this they may,
and should do, ‘fast and pray.’ 
There is yet a God in heaven to be sought to, when a people's
deliverance is thrown beyond the help of human policy or power.  Now is the fit time to make their
appeal to God, as the words following hint, ‘The Lord is in his holy temple,
the Lord’s throne is in heaven,’ ver. 4; in which words
God is pre­sented sitting in heaven as a tem­ple, for their en­couragement, I
conceive, in such a desperate state of affairs, to direct their prayers thither
for deliverance. And certainly this hath been the engine that hath been above
any instrumental to screw up this poor nation again, and set it upon the
foundation of that lawful government from which it was so dangerously slid.

           Season
6. To name no more, times of great ex­pectation are times for
extraordinary prayer.  When the
people of God have been big with expectation of great mercies approaching, then
have they been more abounding in prayer. 
As the cocks crow thickest to­wards break of day, so the saints, the
nearer they have apprehended the accomplishment of promises made to his church,
the more instant they use to be in prayer.  When a woman with child her reckoning is near out, then she
desires her midwife to be at hand. And prayer hath had the name of old for its
excellent usefulness to obstetricate mercies.  ‘The children are come to the birth,’ saith good Hezekiah;
and then he desires the help of the prophet’s prayer for the fair delivery of
it: ‘Lift up thy prayer for the remnant that is left,’ Isa. 37:3, 4.  When Daniel the prophet had learned by
study that the happy period of the seventy years' captivity, bound upon the
Jews’ neck for their sin, was now at hand, Dan. 9:1, then in an
extraordin­ary manner he sets himself to pray and afflict his soul before the
Lord.  And we have reason to hope
that spir­itual Babylon—Rome, I mean—is not long‑lived; it is high time
therefore that the saints should fall more earnestly than ever to dig her grave
for her by their prayers.

 

[The reasons for extraordinary
prayer.]

 

           Question
Fourth. But why is extraordinary prayer to be superadded by the
Christian to his ordinary exercise of it in his daily course?

           Answer
1. Extraordinary prayer is superadded in obedience to the command of God.  He commands not only that we should ‘pray
always,’ but ‘with all prayer’ also, and extraordinary prayer is one
kind among the rest.  And let none
of us say it is not enough to pray once or twice every day, but we must upon
some occasions devote a whole day also, to the damage of calling and
family?  O what niggards would some
be towards God, were they left free to devote what time they thought fit for
his worship?  This cavil sounds too
like that of Judas: ‘To what purpose is this waste?  For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given
to the poor,’ Matt.
26:8, 9. 
‘But this he said, not that he cared for the poor; but because he was a
thief.’  Truly so, when I hear some
carnal wret­ches cry out against this waste of time in praying and fasting—‘how
much might the improvement of that time, if laid out in their callings, have
advantaged their families, wives, and children’—I am ready to think it is not
because they have such a care of their relations as they pretend (for they who
grudge a day for prayer can throw, some of them, many away at the ale-house or
in idleness), but they carry thievish hearts in their bosoms, which love to rob
God of his due, and care not how little service they put him off with.  Is he a loyal subject that pays the
ordinary tribute to his prince, but, if occasion of state requires a subsidy,
refuseth this, or doth it grudgingly? 
God’s commands are none of them, no not this which car­ries some outward
severity on it, so grievous, that any should need to groan or grumble under
them.  Those yokes—duties and
commands, I mean—whose out­side seem most hard have the softest lining within.
What seem harder than suffering? and yet when are the saints fuller of heaven's
joy?  What duty more austere than
this of fasting and afflicting our souls? and yet in the breast of this lion,
that scares sensual wretches, the Christian finds the sweetest honey-comb of
inward comforts.  Temple-work is
sure to be well paid if well done; though it be never so little work in his
house, God will not have it done gratis. None shall kindle a fire on his altar
for naught.  And therefore he takes
it in great disdain at their hands who durst say, ‘What profit is it that we
have kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of
hosts?’ Mal.
3:14.  Whereas
the fault was not in the duty, but in themselves, that they got no more by
it.  As if a naughty servant should
bring himself by his riot and excess to poverty, and then give out a hard
master hath undone him.

           Answer
2. It is superadded to comport with the providence of God, by a suitable
return of duty to his actings and dispensations towards us.  When God is extraordinary in his
providence, he expects his people should be more than ordinary in seeking of
him. What else means that of the prophet? ‘Thus will I do unto thee, O Israel:
and because I will do this unto thee, prepare to meet thy God, O Israel,’ Amos 4:12.  Here God alarms them by his
extraordinary proceedings intended against them, to take the hint of this
warning, and apply themselves speedily to the solemn practice of repentance and
humbling their souls, as a suitable posture to meet God in, and keep off the
storm of his wrath now gathering against them. Is it not high time for a nation
to betake them to their defensive arms when a mighty host is marching against
them?  So, Isa. 26:20, 21,
‘Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee,’
&c.  Here he sends his people
to their chambers and closets, that they may, by afflicting their souls and
fervent prayers, find a hiding in the day of his indignation.  And why must they do thus? ‘For behold
the Lord cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their
iniquity,’ ver.
21.  The rising
of God out of his place imports some notable enterprise he is about to do; and
when the master riseth, it is not manners for the servant to sit still, but to
rise also and prepare to follow him where he goes.  God takes special notice how we be­have ourselves and comport
with is dispensations of judgment or mercy, ‘In that day did the Lord God of
hosts call to weeping, and to mourning;’ Isa. 22:12, that is, he
called them by the voice of his providence as well as his prophets, the nature
of which was such, that had not their lusts bunged up their ears and made them
deaf, they could not but hear and under­stand that now was the time, if ever,
that God ex­pected to see them in sackcloth and tears humbling their souls
before him.  Now see how heinously
he takes their security and profane slighting of his provi­dence, ‘And it was
revealed in mine ears by the Lord of hosts, Surely this iniquity shall not be
purged from you till ye die, saith the Lord of hosts,’ ver. 14.  Few sins more provoke God than
this.  ‘Because they re­gard not
the works of the Lord, nor the operation of his hands, he shall destroy them,
and not build them up,’ Ps.
28:5.  So, ‘And
thou...O Belshazzar, hast not humbled thine heart, though thou knewest all
this,’ Dan.
5:22.  This lost
him his life and kingdom, as the contrary saved Ahab’s for a time, though it
was not so sincere as it ought.  A
temporal humiliation got him a temporal benefit.

           Answer
3. It is superadded for the great influ­ence that this extraordinary
duty solemnly performed would have upon our whole life and course of godliness.  To keep the body healthful requires not
only daily food, but now and the physic also; for in the soundest constitution,
and that advantaged with the best care and temperance, there will, in time,
such a quantity of superfluous humours gather, that nature without help cannot
digest.  And truly the temper of
the soul is as infirm and needs as much tending as the body.  Ordinary prayer is the saint’s
food.  He can as little miss the
constant returns of it as his usual meals.  But extraordinary is his physic, to clear and discharge his
soul of those distempers which it con­tracts, and cannot conquer by the use of
ordinary means; as also to advance and heighten the Chris­tian’s graces unto a
further degree of strength and activity. 
As God hath, in his wise providence, ordered one star of great influence
to be at a certain season of the year in conjunction with the sun, for the more
effectual ripening of the harvest in these colder parts of the world; so hath
he, in the same wisdom, ap­pointed for the Christian's spiritual advantage and
help in this cold climate of the world, that this sol­emn duty should now and
then be taken into con­junction with our ordinary exercise of devotion; for
want of which it is that many ripen slower both in their graces and comforts
than some of their fellow-saints who sit often under the influences of this
powerful quickening ordinance.

 

[Directions for extraordinary prayer.]

 

           Question
Fifth.  What counsel or direction
may be given to the acceptable and successful performance of this solemn duty?

           Answer.  I come now to shut up my discourse on
this point, in answering this last question.  A serious necessary one it is, for indeed it is an edge‑tool
of excellent use, but dangerous in his hand that knows not how to use it.  Like some physic, if it doth not purge
it poisons.  In the same fat soil
where the corn is best the weeds also are rankest.  Neither grace nor sin grow to such a height anywhere as in
those that converse much with this solemn ordinance.  And therefore, as they who are in a ship upon a swift stream
had need the more look to the steerage of it, because they will be carried
amain either to their port or wreck; so have they to be reason to be very
careful in the managery of this service, the issue whereof cannot be ordinary
because the duty is extraordinary. Now the counsel or direction to be given
must neces­sarily be divided into these three general heads.  1. Some preparatory direction before
the duty.  2. Something to be
observed in the performance of the duty. 
3. Something after the despatch of it.

The
city cannot be safe unless the whole line be kept. It is all one whether the
enemy breaks in at the front flank or rear of an army; or whether the ship be
taken at sea, or sink in the haven when the voyage is over.

 

[What is needful before extraordinary prayer.]

 

           1.
Requisite.  Some preparatory
direction before the duty.  Now
there is a double preparation requisite —the one more remote, the other
immediate; or, if you please, habitual preparation and actual.

           (1.)
There is a remote and habitual preparation, of great use to the
performance of this solemn duty of extraordinary prayer.  It lies in this, to look, Chris­tian,
that thou showest a conscionable care in thy daily walking, and the constant
exercise of this duty in thy ordinary daily offices of devotion, or else thou
art like to make but bad work when thou comest to engage in the extraordinary.

           (a)
Thy neglect in the ordinary duty will exceed­ingly indispose thee for
the extraordinary.  Who would take
a foggy horse out of the pasture to run a race?  In extraordinary prayer the soul is to be put on her full
speed, all her powers to strained to their utmost ability, and to continue long
in the work also. Is he fit for so swift and long a race, whose soul is not
kept in breath by the daily exercise of ordinary prayer, but lets his graces,
if he hath any, to be choked up with sloth or formality?  The more any member is used, the
stronger it is.  The right hand, which
is our working hand, hath more activity than the left, that is used less.  A weakness will certainly invade the
powers of thy lazy soul, which, though thou perceivest not as thou sittest in
thy chair of sloth, will appear when thou risest, and thinkest to go forth in
any solemn duty, as thou wert wont to do; then thou wilt find, with Samson,
that thou hast lost thy strength in the lap of sloth and negligence.  As fasting is too strong for new
bottles, so it is too sweet wine for to be put into fusty and mouldy ones.  Now the only way to keep a bottle or
cask sweet, is to not let it stand long empty without any liquor in it.

           (b)
As it will indispose thee for this solemn duty, so it is a bad symptom
concerning thy spiritual state itself, which is worse than the former.  Grace works uniformly, and discovers a
comely proportion in its actings. 
Haply you may see the son of a prince on some high day in richer and
more glorious apparel than on another day that is ordinary; but you shall never
find him in sordid, ragged, and beggarly clothes. Still he will be clad as
becomes a king's son.  Possibly,
yea, it is likely, that you may see the Christian come forth, in an
extraordinary day and duty, with more enlargement of affections in prayer, and
all his graces raised to a higher glory in their actings, than ordinary, but
you shall never find him with his robe of grace laid aside.  Still the true saint will declare his
high birth by his everyday course. 
He will not live in the neglect of ordinary duties, and cast off
communion with God, in his daily walking. 
O, it is the brand of a hypocrite to have his devotion come by fits,
and, like a drift of snow, to lie thick in one place and none in another; to
seem for zeal like angels at a time and live like atheists many weeks
after.  Surely grace acts more
evenly and is never so unlike itself. 
It is ill living in that miser's house who hath never any good meat on
his table but when he makes a feast, and that is very seldom; or with him that
upon an occasion hath a day of prayer, but starves himself and family, or
pinches them in their daily fare. 
Well, never think of med­dling with this extraordinary duty till thou
inurest thyself to the ordinary exercise of prayer, and takest more care in thy
daily walking with God.

           (2.)
There is more close and immediate prepa­ration required, and this I call
actual preparation.  It is
true, indeed, he that is conscientious and careful in the ordinary exercises of
religion, hath a great advan­tage of him that either neglects them or is loose
in them, for his heart must needs stand in a nearer disposition to this
extraordinary service than the other—as he that is up and hath his clothes on,
is more ready to go on his master’s errand than he that is asleep in his bed.  Yet, besides this care in our daily
walking, there needs some further pains to be taken with his heart to raise it
unto such a frame as may comport with this solemn service.  The neat house­wife, though she
endeavours to keep her house clean, yet, against some good time, as they call
it, she is more than ordinary curious in washing her rooms, and scouring her
vessels, that they might not only be clean but bright; and so should the
Christian.  Now is the time for
thee to scour off the dust thou contract­est in thy daily course, and to
brighten thy graces unto a further glory that appears in thy everyday walking,
to do which will cost pains and require time.

           The
Christian is like some heavy birds, as the bustard and others, that cannot get
upon the wing without a run of a furlong or two; or a great bell that takes
some time to the raising of it. 
Now, meditation is the great instrument thou art to use in this pre­paratory
work.  Allow thyself some
considerable por­tion of time, before the day of extraordinary prayer, for thy
retirement, wherein thou mayest converse most privately with thy own
heart.  This cannot be done in a
crowd, neither must it be left to the time of engaging in the extraordinary
duty.  We cannot do both duties
together.  The husbandman cannot
whet his scythe and cut grass at once. 
Betake thyself there­fore to thy closet, and in the first place call thy
thoughts off the world, and as much as is possible clear thy soul of all that
is foreign to the work thou art about; this is the wiping of the table‑book
before we can write anything well on it. Now the more effec­tually to gather in
thy heart to a holy seriousness, and compact thy thoughts together, it were
expedient for thee at first to lay before thee the grand importance of the
approaching service.  Thou art
going to stand be­fore the great God, and that very near in an extra­ordinary
duty, wherein thou wilt either sanctify or profane his reverend in a high
degree, and accordingly art to expect his love or wrath in some choice blessing
or dreadful curse, to be the issue and result of thy undertaking!  Gird the loins of thy mind with some
such awful apprehensions as these. 
As natural fear makes the spirits retire from the outward parts of the
body to the heart, so this holy fear of miscarrying in so solemn a duty would
be a means to call thy thoughts from all exterior carnal objects, and fix them
upon the duty in hand; 'In thy fear will I worship,’ Ps. 5:7.  Such will the print on the wax be as
the sculpture is on the seal.  If
the fear of God be deeply engraven on thy heart, there is no doubt but it will
make a suit­able impression on the duty thou performest.  Well, now the court is set and silence
commanded, a few particulars I shall propound for thy thoughts to go upon in
this preparatory work.

 

[Three preparatory directions.]

 

           First.  Examine thy soul, what end thou pro­poundest
to thyself in the intended service of extraordinary prayer.  None but a child or a fool will run
before he knows what is his errand. 
The end is that which a wise man looks to before he sets his hand to any
work, and the more weighty the enter­prise is the more necessary this is.

           1.
Consider, if the end thou propoundest be evil, the duty cannot be good,
because thy heart is not sincere in it. 
The sincerity of the heart discovers itself in the mark it sets up and
end it aims at in a duty, not in the external performance of it.  The thief and the honest traveller may
be found riding in the same road, but they have different aims therein, and
this distinguisheth them.  Thus the
saint and hypo­crite join in the same duty, shoot as it were the same bow, but
their eye takes not the same aim, and therefore the arrows meet not in the same
butt.  The prayers of one are
rejected as abominable, and the other graciously accepted.  Who more seemingly de­vout than the
captive Jews that kept up a fast for seventy years together? yet God gives them
but little thanks for their pains, because their end was not right: ‘When ye
fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh month, even those seventy years,
did ye at all fast unto me, even to me?’ Zech. 7:5.  The faster a man gallops, if he be out
of his way, it is the worse. Zeal is the best or worst thing in a duty.  If the end be right, O it is excellent!
but if wrong, stark naught.  And it
is no easy thing to propound a right end. 
The eye must be set right in the head before it can look right.  If the piece be wrong made it will
never carry the bullet straight to the mark.  A false heart—and every carnal heart is such—cannot have a
true end.

           2.
Consider that your endeavour in the duty will bear proportion, and be
commensurate, to the end you propound therein.  If your end be low, your endeavour will be no more than to
reach that end; as he that intends to build a little cot­tage contents himself
with ordinary stuff, clay and thatch; but he that designs some stately palace
provides more precious materials. 
Thus David was very curious in the materials he laid aside for the
temple: ‘For the palace,’ saith he, ‘is not for man, but for the Lord
God.’  Therefore he ‘prepared with
all his might gold and silver,’ &c., I Chr. 29:1-3.  The hypocrite’s ends in a fast are low
and base—his credit with men, carnal profit, and the like.  Accordingly, his endeavour is laid out
on the external duty—a demure counten­ance, devout posture, and such
expressions in prayer as may most take with those that hear him, and this is
all he looks at.  But the gracious
soul saith with David, This palace I build, this duty I perform, ‘is not for
man, but for the Lord God,’ and therefore his chief care is to provide more
precious materials—a broken heart for sin in his confessions, faith and
fervency in his petitions, love and thankfulness in his acknowledgments of
mercies received.

           Question.  But when is an evil end propounded
in this duty?

           Answer.  The end we propound may be evil, either
intrinsically, when the thing we aim at is evil in its own nature, or else from
some irregularity in placing it too high or low in our aim.

           (1.)
The ends that are intrinsically evil.  To name two,

           (a)
When a person or a people shall fast and pray to cover and more sleightily
carry on any wicked enterprise. 
This is a horrid evil, a monstrous abomin­ation.  What is this but to hang out the sign
of an angel at the door, that they may play the devil within the less
suspected?  Yet, such deep
hypocrisy hath the heart of man discovered, that it dare come and lay its
cockatrice egg under the very wing of God, and make use of this solemn
ordinance as an expedient to hatch their wicked designs.  The fox, they say, when hard put to it,
will, to save himself, fall in among the dogs, and hunt among them as one of
their company.  Thus the hypocrite,
the better to conceal his wicked proj­ects, will run among the saints, and make
as loud a cry in this duty and others as the best of them all.  It is the devil’s old trick, and he
hath learned it his instruments, to wrap up wicked plots in the gilded covers
of God’s ordinances.  What plotting
and counterplotting was there between Shechem the son of Hamor and Simeon and
Levi? and the expedient both used to accomplish their designs was an ordin­ance
of God.  The one hopes by
submitting to it to hook into his hands the whole estate of Jacob’s family
—‘shall not their substance be ours?’ and the other persuades them to it that
when they were sore they might butcher them without resistance.  Absalom, that he might better play the
traitor against his father, begs leave to pay his vow at Hebron.  Jezebel sets her trap for Naboth, and
that he may the more surely fall into her clutches, she croucheth and humbleth
herself even before God in a fast. 
And the demure Pharisee, who bragged so much of his fasting, our Saviour
was bold to tell him it was to ‘devour the widows’ houses.’ But, as the father
hath it, manducant in terris quod apud inferos digerunt—they devour on
earth those morsels that will lie heavy on their stomachs in hell to be
digesting to eternity.  Thus the
hypocrite, like antichrist, sits in the temple of God, and there com­mits his
execrable abominations, turning a house of prayer into a den of thieves.  O tremble at this great
wickedness!  It gives a crimson
tincture to a sin when it is committed under the disguise of religion.

           (b)
When a person thinks by fasting and prayer to satisfy God for his sin, or
merit any favour at the hands of God. 
This is wicked and abominable, and as contrary to the nature of prayer
as buying is to begging.  ‘The
poor,’ saith Solomon, ‘useth en­treaties,’ Prov. 18:23.  ‘Whom, though I were righteous, yet would
I not answer, but I would make supplica­tion to my judge,’ Job 9:15.  We cannot have the bene­fit of the
throne of grace till we quit our legal plea. Christ indeed pleads as righteous,
and therefore desires what he asks for us as just, because he hath paid for it;
but we pray as sinners, and therefore crave all as mercy, yea, though we plead
Christ’s merit, because he is the greatest and freest gift of all other. Yet,
such is the pride of man's heart, that he had rather play the merchant, and
truck his duties for God’s blessings, than be thought to receive them
gratis.  This was the temper of the
carnal Jews.  They thought to
pacify God for their sin, as Jacob his angry brother, with the droves and
flocks of duties which they presented him with, and thought their services
undervalued when they were not accepted for good payment.  Hence their bold expostulating the case
with the Lord, ‘Wherefore have we fasted, say they, and thou seest not?
wherefore have we afflicted our soul, and thou takest no knowledge?’ Isa. 58:3.  Such a high opinion they had of
themselves.  O take heed of this:
pride turns an ordinance into an idol. 
God accepts our fasts and prayers when used for humilia­tion, but abhors
them when we bring them for our justification.  The Pharisee lost himself by his proud brags how oft he
fasted, while the poor publican got the prize by a humble confession of his
sin, Luke
18.  He that
thinks to wash his face with puddle water, instead of making it clean will
leave it fouler.  Truly our best
tears are not over clean, and can they make us clean that need themselves to be
washed?  Holy Job durst not rely on
his purity: ‘If I wash myself with snow water, and make my hands never so
clean, yet shalt thou plunge me in the ditch, and mine own clothes shall abhor
me.  For he is not a man, as I am,
that I should answer him, and we should come together in judgment,’ Job 9:30-32.

           (2.)
The end may be, though not intrinsically evil, yet evil from some
irregularity in misplacing it; as when we make that our ultimate end which
should only be our subordinate end in the duty.  That which would be lawful standing in its proper place,
becomes sinful when the ultimate end is crowded down to make room for that.  The glory of God is to be the ultimate
end, not only in every duty of worship, but in all our common actions also,
even to eating and drinking.  Those
low actions are to be elevated to this high end, I Cor. 10:31.  And good reason he should be our utmost
end from whom we received our begin­ning. 
All things are of him, and therefore fit they should be to him.  The river-water empties itself into the
bosom of the sea from whence it flows. 
Now, if we are to have so high an end in our lowest actions, then surely
in our highest; and such are acts of wor­ship, in which we have immediately to
do with God, and are thence called priests, ‘to offer up spiritual sacrifices,
acceptable to God by Jesus Christ,’ I Peter 2:5.  There is indeed another end also for
which ordinances are appointed, viz. to conduit-pipes for conveying all kind of
blessings from God unto us; but this is an inferior end, and to be subordinated
to the former, or else we make the glory of God an under­ling to our particular
good, which God will not endure. 
Possibly we are in some great affliction.  This sets us to prayer for deliverance.  Thus far we keep our way.  But then we turn aside when our deliver­ance
is more regarded by us than his glory. 
This is to set the subject in his prince’s chair; uti Deo ut frua­mur
mundo—to make use of God that we may enjoy the creature.  Beware of this.  Whatever we prefer in our desires above
the glory of God is an idol-worship by us.  The heart can engrave as well as the hand, and an idol in
the heart is as bad as one set up in the house.

           Question.  But how may I find whether the glory of
God, or the particular good thing I pray for, be that which I make my chief end
in duty?

           Answer.  It may be discovered two ways: (a)
By thy carriage in prayer. (b) By thy carriage after prayer.

           (a)
By the carriage of thy heart in prayer.  If the glory of God be chiefly aimed at by thee, this will
give a tincture to the whole duty, and be influential into every part of it;
thou wilt suit thy requests to this end. For, as there is a secret force from
the arm that draws the bow impressed on the arrow which carries it to the mark
aimed at by the shooter, so there is a secret power which carries the soul out
in duty to act suit­ably to the end he chiefly propounds and desires to obtain;
for no man would willingly obstruct and hin­der what above all he wisheth
for.  We will suppose pardon of sin
is the mercy thou prayest for.  Now
if thou desirest sincerely the glory of God as well as this mercy, yea, above
it, this will direct thee in thy con­fession of sin to afflict thy soul more
for the dis­honour thou hast by it reflected on God than the wrath thou hast
incurred thyself.  So in thy
petition, thou darest not beg thy pardon on terms that were dishonourable for
God to give it on, but will desire the mercy in such a way as his glory may be
both secured and advanced.  Now God
cannot pardon the sin of an impenitent wretch that holds still the love and
liking of his lust without infinite wrong to his glorious name.  And therefore, if his glory be so high
in thy eye as thou sayest, thou wilt cry as earnestly for his sanctifying grace
as for pardoning mercy, and not merely because thou canst not have pardon
without it—as a sick man desires a bitter potion to save his life, not that he
loves it—but because by it thou shalt be fitted to glorify him.

           (b)
It may be discovered by thy carriage after duty, and that in two
particulars: when the thing prayed for is obtained, and also when denied.

           When
the mercy prayed for is obtained. 
If thou didst chiefly aim at the glory of God in begging it, thy chief
care will be to lay it out for his glory now thou hast it; whereas he that
aimed at himself in praying for it, will as little regard God in the using of
it as he did in begging it.  It is
natural for things to resolve into their principles.  The child that Hannah obtain­ed of God she dedicates unto
the Lord—and why? but because this was her end in praying for him, I Sam. 1:11 compared
with ver. 28. 
When David’s prayer is heard, and he delivered, mark what his resolve
from this is, ‘I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living,’ Ps. 116:9.  And again, ‘O Lord, truly I am thy
servant,...thou hast loosed my bonds,’ ver. 16.  He re­turns the mercy to God by
improving it for him in a holy life. How can we think he aimed at the glory of
God in praying for health that runs away from God as soon as he is set upon his
legs? or, in praying for wealth, that lays it out upon his lusts?

           Again,
when the thing prayed for is denied.  He that aims sincerely at God’s glory in prayer for a mer­cy—I
speak now of such mercies as are but conditionally promised—he will cheerfully
submit to the will of God in a denial thereof, because God can in such
petitions glorify himself by denying as well as granting them.  David prayed and fasted for the life of
his sick child.  It dies
notwithstanding.  Now, does this
denial make him fall out with God? is he clam­orous and discontent?  No, it raiseth no storm in his heart or
lowering weather in his countenance to hin­der him in the service of God.  He washeth his tears from his blubbered
cheeks, changes his apparel, and goes cheerfully into the house of God and
worship­peth, II
Sam. 12:20, so powerfully did the will of God determine
his will.  Thus, as the heavenly
bodies are by the primum mobile carried contrary to their par­ticular
inclination, so grace in a saint overrules his natural affection, and carries
him into a compliance with the will of God when it crosseth his own.  Our blessed Saviour had natural
affections, which made him pray the bitter cup of his passion might, if pos­sible,
pass from him; yet not so but he was willing to take a denial, and therefore
desires his Father to glorify himself, though it were by taking away his life, John 12:27, 28.

           Second.  The second thing thou art to do, having
fixed thy end right, is to make a private search into thy heart and life,
whereby thou mayest be enabled more fully and feelingly to lay open thy
condition before the Lord.  Now
there are three heads of inquiry thou art to go upon: 1. For the sins thou hast
committed.  2. For the mercies thou
hast received.  3. For the wants
thou liest under.

 

[Three heads of
inquiry in searching

into our heart and
life.]

 

           1.
For the sins thou hast committed. 
The great business of a fast lies in the practice of repentance, and
this cannot be done without a narrow scrutiny of the heart: ‘Let us search and
try our ways, and turn again to the Lord,’ Lam. 3:40.  The thief must be found before he can
be tried, and tried before he is con­demned and executed.  Some sins no doubt may be taken and
apprehended with little pains; but if thou beest true to God and thy own soul,
thou wouldst not willingly let any of the company escape.  How canst thou expect pardon for any
that desirest not justice on all? and how canst thou say thou desirest justice
on those sins which thou endeavourest not to appre­hend?  That constable that having a hue and
cry brought him for a pack of thieves, and lets any get away rather than he
will rise to search for them, shows his zeal to justice is little. I do not say
thou wilt be able to find all.  It
is enough if by thy diligence thou givest proof of thy sincerity that thou
wouldst not conceal any.  Set
thyself, therefore, in good earnest to the work.  Beset thy heart and life round, as men would do a wood where
murderers are lodged.  Hunt back to
the several stages of thy life, youth, and riper years all the capacities and
relations thou hast stood in, thy calling general and particular—every place
where thou hast lived, and thy behaviour in them.  Bid memory bring in its old records, and read over what
passages are there written.  Call
conscience in to depose what it knows concerning thee, and encourage it to
speak freely without mincing the matter: and take heed thou dost not snib this
witness, as some corrupt judges use when they would favour a bad cause, or give
it secret instructions—as David did Joab—to deal gently with thee.  Be willing to have thy condition opened
fully and all thy coverings turned up. 
For many times foul designs are his with fair pretences, as the barrels
of powder in the parliament cellar under coals and billets.  Now, when thou hast gone as far as thou
canst, begging Heaven’s help in the thing, to search and try thee whether there
be any further wickedness that thou hast not found out, then burden thy soul,
judge thyself for them with all the brokenness of heart thou canst get,
justifying God in the sentence denounced against thee for them.  God will have thee lay thy neck on the
block, though he means not to give the stroke.  In a word, labour in thy meditations to give every sin its
due accent, and suffer thy thoughts to dwell on them till thou findest the fire
of thy indignation kindle in thy heart against them, yea, flame forth into such
a holy zeal against them as makes thee put thyself under an oath to endeavour
their utter ruin and destruction. 
Then thou art fit to beg thy own life when thou hast vowed the death of
thy sins.

           2.
For the mercies thou hast received.  Thou hast these—at least the most signal instances of them
—upon the file, unless thou beest a very bad husband for thy soul.  If God thinks fit to bottle his saints’
tears, they should surely not forget to book his mer­cies.  Now there are some special seasons
wherein the saint should take down this chronicle of God’s mercies to read in
it; and this is one, when he is to engage in this extraordinary duty.

           (1.)
As the most effectual means to melt his heart for sin.  Mercy gives the greatest aggravation to
sin, and therefore must needs be the most powerful instrument to break the
heart for sin.  With this God doth
reproach sinning Israel, ‘Do ye thus requite the Lord, O foolish people and
unwise?’ Deut.
32:6. They could not have been evil to such a height if God
had not been so good to them.  When
God would break the sore of his people's sin, he compounds a poultice with his
choicest mercies and lays this warm to their hearts.  David had sat many months under the lec­tures of the law,
unhumbled for his bloody compli­cated sin; but Nathan is sent to preach a
rehearsal sermon to him of the many mercies that God had graced him with, and
while these coals are pouring on his head his heart dissolves presently, II Sam. 12.  The frost seldom is quite out of the
earth till the sun hath got some power in the spring to dissolve its bands; but
then it sets it going.  Neither
will the hardness of the heart be to any purpose removed until the soul be
thoroughly warmed with the sense of God’s mercies. ‘And there shall ye remember
your ways, and all your doings, wherein ye have been defiled; and ye shall
loathe yourselves in your own sight,’ Eze. 20:43.  Where is that ‘there’ but amidst
the thoughts of his mercies, as by the context is manifest?  A pardon from the prince hath made some
weep whom the sight of the block and axe could not move.  Sight of wrath inflames the conscience,
but sense of mercy kindly melts the heart and overcomes the will.

           (2.)
As a necessary ingredient in all our prayers.  ‘With thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto
God,’ Php.
4:6.  This spice
must be in all our offerings.  He
that prays for mercy he wants, and is not thankful for mercies re­ceived, may
seem mindful of himself, but he is forgetful of God, and so takes the right
course to shut his prayers out of doors. 
God will not put his mercies into a rent purse, and such is an
unthankful heart, for it drops them soon out of his memory.

           3.
For the wants thou liest under. 
Before the tradesman goes to the fair he looks over his shop that he may
know what commodity he most lacks. 
Thou goest to this duty to furnish thyself with the graces and mercies
thou needest, is it not necessary then to see what thy present store is? what
thy personal and what thy relational needs are?—not forgetting the public, in
whose peace and happiness thou art so much concerned; for, if this ship sink,
thou canst not be safe in thy private cabin.  To leave all these to oc­cur and overtake thee, without
charging thy thoughts with them by previous meditation, is too high a presumption
for a sober Christian to take up. 
Be­sides, thy affections need help as well as thy memory. Nay, we may
sooner bring our sins and wants to mind than lay them to heart.  It is easier to know them, than knowing
them to be deeply affected with them: and we do not come in prayer to tell God
a bare story of these things, but feelingly and affectionately to make our moan
and complaint with deep sighs and groans to him that can pardon the one and
relieve us in the other.

           Third.  When thou hast upon this scrutiny kin­dled
thy affections with the bellows of meditation into a deep sense of these
things, then furnish thyself with arguments from the promises to enforce thy
prayers and make them prevalent with God.  The promises are the ground of faith, and faith when
strengthened will make thee fervent, and such and such fervency ever speeds and
returns with victory out of the field of prayer.  ‘The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth
much,’ James
5:16.  Words in
prayer are but as powder; the promise is the bullet that doth the execution,
faith the grace that chargeth the soul with it, and fervency that gives fire,
and dischargeth it into God's bosom with such a force that the Almighty cannot
deny it entrance, because indeed he will not. Now, as he is an impudent soldier
that leaves his bullets to be cast or fitted to the bore of his piece till he
comes into the field; so he an unwise Christian that doth not provide and sort
promises suitable to his condition and request before he engageth in so solemn
a service.  Daniel first searcheth
out the promise—what God had engaged himself to do for his people, as also when
the date of this promise expired; and when by meditation and study upon it he
had raised his heart to a firm belief thereof, then he sets upon God with a
holy violence in prayer, and pres­seth him close, not only as a merciful God,
but righteous also, to remember them now the bond of his promise was coming
out: ‘O Lord, according to all thy righteousness, I beseech thee, let thine
anger and thy fury be turned away from thy city Jerusalem,’ &c., Dan. 9:16.  The mightier any is in the word, the
more mighty he will be in prayer. 
Having despatched the preparatory directions, I now come to those that
are to be observed in the duty itself.

 

[What is needful in extraordinary prayer.]

 

           2.
Requisite.  That necessary
to be observed in the performance of the duty of extraordinary prayer.
Because those directions will serve here which are given in another place for
the duty of prayer in general, I shall name but a few, and those briefly.

           (1.)
When the time to engage thyself in this extraordinary duty is come, beware
thou settest not upon it in the confidence of thy preparation, whatever thy
care success therein hath been. 
What a worthy doctor directed ministers {to do} as to their preach­ing,
is applicable to Christians as to their praying—he bade them study for their
sermons as if they expected no divine assistance in the pulpit, and when they
came in the pulpit to cast themselves upon divine assistance as if they had not
studied at all.  Thus prepare
before thou comest to fast and pray, as if thou wert to meet with no further
assistance in the duty; but when thou comest to the performance of the duty,
cast thyself wholly upon divine assistance as if thou hadst not at all
prepared.  I know not which of the
two doth worst, he that presumes upon God’s as­sistance in this great work
without preparation, or he that presumes on his preparation, and relies not
after he hath done his best endeavour on the gracious as­sistance of God.  The first shows he hath but mean
thoughts of this solemn ordinance, yea, low and un­worthy thoughts of the great
God with whom he hath to do in it; and the other too high thoughts of himself.

           What
though now, Christian, thou marchest in goodly array and thy heart in order;
how soon, alas! may all that preparation be routed, and thy chariot-wheels,
which thou hast taken so much pains to oil, be set fast or knocked off!  Now thy thoughts are unit­ed, thou
thinkest; dost thou know where they will be a few minutes hence, if thy God
help thee not to keep them together? 
Thou canst as easily hold the four winds in a bag, as keep the thoughts
of thy fluid mind from gadding. 
Now thy affections are wound up to some height, but canst thou hold the
pegs from slip­ping?  Cannot God
wither thy hand while thou stretchest it out in prayer; make thy tongue falter
when thou wouldst make use of it; yea, suffer a sud­den damp to fall on thy
spirit that shall chill all thy affections and leave thy heart as cold as a
stone in thy bosom? ‘Surely man at his best estate is vanity.’  And this in regard of the temper of his
spirit as well as in the constitution of his body and other {of} his world­ly
advantages.  How oft do we see the
gifts of his mind and the vivacity of his graces fade and wither in one duty,
which at another, when the Spirit of God vouch­safed his gentle breath to
quicken them, did flourish and send forth their fragrant spices in
abundance!  O do not then applaud
thyself in thy gourd, which may so soon be smitten, neither commit so great an
ad­venture as the success of this duty is in the leaking bottom of thy own
preparation.

           (2.)
Pray often rather than very long at a time.  It is hard to be very long in prayer and not slacken in our
affections. Those watches which are made to go longer than ordinary at one
winding do commonly lose towards the end. 
The flesh is weak; and if the spirits of the body tire, the soul that
rideth on this beast must needs be cast behind.  Our Saviour, when he prayed for his life, we find him
praying rather often than long at once. 
He who, in a long journey, lights often to let his beast take breath,
and then mounts upon him again, will get to his journey’s end may be sooner
than he that puts him beyond his strength.  Especially observe this in social prayers. For, when we pray
in company we must consider them that travail with us in the duty; as Jacob
said, ‘I will lead on softly,...as the children are able to endure.’  Yet I speak not this that you should
give any check to the Spirit of God in his assistances, which sometime come so
strong that the Christian is, as it were, carried with a full fore‑wind, and
hath the la­bour of tugging at the oar saved him.  The ship of the soul goes with most facility when with most
speed.  Such assistances lift both
the person praying and those that join with him—if gracious, and under the same
quickenings—in a manner above all weariness. The Spirit brings
spirits—affections, I mean—with him. Such a soul is like a vessel that runs
full and fresh—what pours from him is quick and spiritful; whereas at another
time, when the Spirit of God de­nies these assistances, his prayer tastes flat
to his own palate, if not to others’.

           (3.)
Be very careful to approve thyself faithful in the soul-humbling work of the
day.  Let thy confes­sions be
free and full, the sense thou hast of thy sins be deep, and thy sorrow for them
be sincere and evangelical, for as thou quittest thyself in this, so thou wilt
be in all the other parts of the duty. 
If thou con­fessest thy sin feelingly, thou wilt pray against it
fervently.  If thy sorrow be deep
and reach to thy very heart and spirit, then thy petitions for pardoning mercy
and purging grace will also come from the heart, be cordial, warm, and vehement.  Whereas he that melts not in confession
of sin will freeze in his prayers that he puts up against it; if his tears be
false and whorish—lachrymæ mentiri doctæ, his desires cannot be
true.  Why do men ask in their
petitions that grace which they do not in their hearts desire, but because they
do not feel the smart, and are not loathed with the evil, of their sins that
they confess? thus many confess their sins as beggars sometimes show their
sores, which they are not willing to have cured.  Again, as thou art in thy confession of sin, so thou wilt be
in thy acknowledgments of mercy. 
The lower thou fallest in the abasement of thyself for thy sins, the
higher thou wilt mount in thy praises for his mercies.  The rebound of the ball is suitable to
the force with which it is thrown down. 
The deeper the base is in confession, the shriller will the treble of
thy praises be, for these mutually aggravate one another. the greater our
mercies are, the greater are our sins; and the greater our sins, the greater
are the mercies which, notwithstanding them, our good God vouch­safeth to
us.  So that the sense we have of
one must needs be in proportion to the other; as we are afflic­ted for sin so
will we be affected with mercy.

           (4.)
Improve the intervals of prayer with sea­sonable and suitable meditations,
that thou mayest be fitted to return to the work with more life and vigour.
Meditation is prayer’s handmaid to wait on it both before and after the
performance.  It is as the plough
before the sower, to prepare the heart for the duty of prayer, and the harrow
to cover the seed when it is sown. 
As the hopper feeds the mill with grist, so doth meditation the heart
with matter for prayer.  Now, if it
be necessary that thou shouldst consider before duty what thou art to pray,
then surely after duty to make reflection on thyself how thou didst pray.  The mill may go and yet no corn be
ground.  Thus thou mayest confess
many sins, and yet thy heart be bro­ken and ground with sorrow for none of them
all. Thou mayest pray for many graces, and exercise little or no grace in thy
praying for them—thy heart being lazy, and putting no weight to the
work—without which these spices are not broken, and so send not forth their
sweet savour.  Look therefore back
upon the past duty, and observe narrowly what the beha­viour of thy heart was
in it.  If thou findest it to have
been lazy, and drew loose in its gears, or played the truant by gadding from
the work with impertinent thoughts—in a word, if under the power of any sinful
distemper, be sure at thy return to the duty of prayer that thou chargest this
home upon thyself with shame and sorrow. 
This is the only way to stay God’s hand and stop him from commencing a
suit against thee: ‘If we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged,’ I Cor. 11:31.  Ubi desinit justitia incipit judi­cium—where
justice takes end judgment begins. 
If we do not justice on ourselves, then God will right himself as well
as he can.  Indeed thou canst not
in faith pray for pardon of these sins till thou hast shown thyself on God's
side by entering thy protest against them.  Moses took the right method—he expressed his zeal first for
God against Israel’s sin of the golden calf, and then fell hard to the work of
prayer to God for the pardon of it. 
He durst not open his lips for them to God till he had vented his zeal
for God, Ex.
32:26 compared with ver. 30, 31.  And if he took this course when to intercede for others,
much more then shouldst thou when to pray for the pardon of thy own sin.

           Again,
if upon this review of thy prayer thou findest thy heart was warm in the work,
that thy affec­tions flowed out to God, and his reciprocated loves again by
unbosoming himself to thee, take heed that no secret pride robs thee of thy new
got treasure; be humble and thankful, remembering they were not thy own wings
on which thou wert carried.  And
also, be careful to improve these divine favours given to en­courage thee in
the work, as the handfuls of ears of corn let fall for Ruth in the field of
Boaz.  God would not that they
should stop thy mouth, but open it wider when thou comest again to pray.  Did thy heart begin to melt in thy
bosom?  O now cry for more bro­kenness
of heart.  Did thy God cast a kind
look on thee? let it set thee a longing for fuller discoveries of his
love.  When the beggar sees the
rich man putting his hand to his purse he cries more earnestly.  God is now on the giving hand, and this
should embolden thee to ask; as Abraham, who, as God yielded, made his
approaches closer, improving the ground which he got by inches for a further
advantage to gain more, Gen.
18:27.

 

[What is needful after extraordinary prayer.]

 

           3.
Requisite.  That which is necessary
after extra­ordinary prayer. 
The third word of direction is to the Christian, how he should carry
himself when the day for extraordinary prayer is over, and this lies in a holy
watch that he is to set upon himself. 
He that prays and watcheth not, is like him that sows a field with
precious seed, but leaves the gate open for hogs to come and root it up; or him
that takes great pains to get money, but no care to lay it up safely when he
hath it.  If Satan cannot beat thee
in the field, yet he hopes to have thee at an advantage when thou hast
disbanded thy forces, the duty be past, and thou liest in a careless
posture.  Esau promised himself an
opportunity of avenging himself on Jacob: ‘The days of mourning,’ saith he,
‘for my father are at hand; then will I slay him,’ Gen. 27:41.  Thus saith Satan: The days of mourning
and fasting will soon be over; he will not be always upon his knees praying,
not always beating down his body with fasting, and then I will fall upon
him.  Now one of these two ways thy
danger is like to come upon thee—either by his wounding thy faith or slackening
thy care in thy obediential walking; and if he can do either, he will give a
sad blow to thy prayers.

           (1.)
Look therefore after such a day to thy faith. To pray and not to act
faith, is to shoot and not look where the arrow lights; to send a ship with
merchan­dise to sea and look for no return by the voyage. Thou hast in prayer
laboured to overcome God to hear and help thee; now take as much pains to
overcome thy heart into a quiet waiting on God and entire confidence in
him.  When Jehoshaphat had ended
his public fast, he stands up the next day and speaks these words to his people
that had joined with him in that solemn duty, ‘Hear me, O Judah, and ye
inhabitants of Jerusalem; Believe in the Lord your God, so shall ye be
established; believe his prophets, so shall ye prosper,’ II Chr. 20:20.  So when our blessed Saviour had taught
his disciples to pray, then he pres­seth them entirely to commit themselves and
their affairs to that God to whom they prayed, Matt. 6:19-34.
Truly else extraordinary prayer is but extraordinary prattle; we mock God, and
our prayers will mock us, for no fruit will come of them.  The hunter may want his supper, though
his dog runs fast and mouths it well, if, when he comes at the prey, he dares
not fasten upon it.  Now it is
faith's office to fasten on the promise and take hold of God, without which thy
loud cry in prayer is bootless and fruitless.  O canst thou trust thy cause with the lawyer, after thy
opening it to him; and put thy life into the physician's hand by following his
prescriptions, when thou hast acquaint­ed him with thy disease; and darest not
thou venture thy stake in God's hand, after thou hast poured thy soul forth to
him in prayer!  This is a great
folly. Why shouldst thou think omnipotency cannot help, or truth and
faithfulness will not?  Yea, a
grievous sin to bring the name of the great God into question by thy
unbelief.  Yet this our Saviour
complains sadly to be the usage God meets with at their hands from whom he
might expect better.  ‘Shall not
God avenge his own elect which cry day and night to him, though he bear long
with them?  I tell you that he will
avenge them speedily.’  What
greater security can the heart of a saint desire more than the word of a
faithful God? yet few to be found after all their praying for deliverance that
can entirely wait for the same. ‘Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall
he find faith on the earth?’ Luke 18:8.

           (2.)
Look after a day of extraordinary prayer to thy obediential walking.  Solomon’s advice is, to ‘keep thy foot
when thou goest to the house of God,’ Ecc. 5:1.  Mine at present is, to look to thy foot
as thou comest from it.  Thou
mayest do thyself more mis­chief than all the devils in hell can do thee.  They cannot intercept thy prayers and
hinder the happy re­turn of them into thy bosom, but thou mayest soon do it:
‘Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save; neither his ear
heavy, that it cannot hear: but your iniquities have separated between you and
your God, and your sins have hid his face from you, that he will not hear,’ Isa. 59:1, 2.  This is the whisperer that separateth
chief friends; that makes God, our best friend, stand aloof from his people and
their prayers.  Be as careful,
Christian, after a fast, as a man would be after strong physic.  A cold caught now—a little disorder in
thy walking—may be of sad consequence. 
Remember that as thou hast left thy prayers, so thy vows, with the Lord.
As thou lookest God should answer the one, so he expects thou shouldst pay the
other.  Break thy promise to him
and thou dischargest God with thy own hand of any mercy he owes thee.  It is folly to think thou canst bind
God and leave thyself free.—We have des­patched then the first branch of the
distinction of the kinds of prayer, which held forth the diversos modos
orandi—diverse manners of praying; from which hath been shown, that we are
to pray with all manner of prayer, ejaculatory and composed, solitary
and social, private and public, ordinary and extraordinary;
and we now go on to the second.

 

 

 

BRANCH
SECOND.

 

[‘All prayer’ viewed
as to
diversity in matter.]

 

           Passing
from what we have said of diverse man­ner in prayer, we are now to consider the
diversam materiam orationis—the diverse matter of prayer. And thus, to
pray with all prayer and supplication, is to encircle the whole matter of
prayer within the com­pass of our duties, and not to leave anything out of our
prayers which God would have taken in. 
Now this diversity of prayer’s matter, some think they find in the two
words of the text, BDTF,LP¬ and *,ZF4H;
but I shall not ground my discourse on so nice a criti­cism.  We will content ourselves with the
division which the same apostle makes: ‘In every thing by prayer and
supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God,’ Php. 4:6;
and, ‘Pray without ceasing.  In
every thing give thanks,’ I
Thes. 5:17, 18. 
In both which places the whole matter of prayer is com­prehended in
these two: First. Re­quest or
petitionary prayer.  Second. Thanksgiving. These two are like
the double motion of the lungs, by which they suck in and breathe out the air
again.  In the petitionary part of
prayer we desire something at God's hands; in thanksgiving we return praise to
him for mercies received from him. I begin with the petitionary part of prayer.

 

[The petitionary part of prayer.]

 

           First. The first of the twofold division
of the whole matter of prayer, viz. petitionary prayer.  This is threefold.  First. Precatory.  Second. Deprecatory. Third.
Imprecatory. As for that of intercession, we shall leave it to another place,
under those words ‘supplication for all saints.’

 

[First kind of
petitionary prayer—the precatory.]

 

           First.
Precatory prayer; that part of prayer, I mean, wherein the Christian
desires of God, in the name of Christ, some good thing of the promise to be
given unto him.  Now the good
things promised are either spiritual or temporal—those that respect our souls
and our eternal salvation, or those which relate to our bodies and temporary
estate of them in this life.  Such
a large field hath the Christian given him for his requests to walk in, for
‘godliness hath the promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to
come,’ I
Tim. 4:8. 
This earth below, to a saint, is a land of promise, though not the land
which is chiefly promised.  God
hath not promised him heaven but left him to the wide world to shift for his
outward sub­sistence, he hath not bid them live by faith for their souls, but
live by their wits for their bodies. 
No, he that hath promised to ‘give’ him ‘grace and glory,’ hath also
said, ‘no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly,’ Ps. 84:11.  Their bill of fare is provided as well
as their inheritance hereafter. Now all that I shall do here is to put a
compass into your hand, by the help of which you may steer your course safely,
when you are bound in your requests to either point of the promise, whether it
be for temporal or spiritual mercies. 
And that I may not run you beside the true channel upon rocks or sands,
I shall touch the needle of that compass I would commend to your use with the
lodestone of Scripture, from which we may gather a fourfold similitude to be
used in our request for spiritual and temporal good things promised, and a
threefold dissimilitude also.

           1.
There is a fourfold similitude to be used in precatory prayer.

           (1.)
Whether thou prayest for temporal or spir­itual blessings, thou must pray in
the sense of thy own unworthiness, for thou deservest neither.  When Christ prays for us, he pleads as an
advocate for justice, because he paid before he prays, and asks but what he
gives the price for.  But we poor
creatures are beggars, and must crave all as pure alms, for the money comes not
out of our purse that made the pur­chase; neither was God the Father bound to
engage his Son, or the Son to engage himself, in our recov­ery, who were fallen
by forfeiture into the hands of divine justice.  So that mercy is the only plea thou who art a sinner canst
make with God.  Thou mayest
with man stand upon thy desert. 
Thus Jacob claimed his wages at Laban’s hand; but when he hath to do
with God he changeth his plea, and sues sub formâ pauperis—in the form
of the poor: ‘I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies, and of all the
truth, which thou hast shewed unto thy servant,’ Gen. 32:10.  So Daniel: ‘We do not present our
supplications before thee for our righteousnesses, but for thy great
mercies.’  No blessing so great but
may be obtained where mercy is the plea, and none so little that we merit.  If thou wouldst therefore beg anything
at God’s hand, confess thou deservest nothing.  Then are we fit to receive great things from God when we are
least in our own eye; then nearest the crown when we judge ourselves unworthy
of a crust.  The proud Pharisee
brought his righteousness in his prayer to God, and carried away his sin bound
upon him; the publican brought his sin in his humble confession, and carries
away his absolution and justification with him.  Thus God crosseth his hands like Jacob in giving his blessings.

           (2.)
In both thou must pray in faith, for both spiritual and temporal
blessings are promised, and therefore thou art to believe that God will be as
faithful and punctual in the performance of the less promises that concern this
life, as in the more weighty matters which respect thy eternal happiness in the
other.  Indeed, he promiseth
spiritual blessings in specie—grace and glory he will give; but temporal
enjoyments in valore—either in kind or value—‘no good thing will he
withhold.’  And it is fit he should
judge when a temporal enjoyment will be good for us, and when it will be better
to give some other thing in the lieu of it.  Hence that method in our Lord’s prayer, first to pray, ‘Thy
will be done,’ before we pray, ‘Give us this day our daily bread.’  But the seal is the same which ratifies
temporal promises with that which he sets to spiritual; his truth and
faithfulness are as deeply obliged to perform temporal promises, according to
the tenure in which they are made, as to make good the other.  And therefore we are as strongly to
acquiesce in his care and providence for our protection and provision here, as
for our salva­tion hereafter; else he had done his people wrong to take them
off from an anxious care for those things which he meant not to charge his
providence with. Certainly if he bids us be careful for none of these things,
but only let our requests be made known to him, he intends not our loss by our
ease, but thereby would have us understand and believe that he will take the
care upon himself, and give us at last a full account of his love and
faithfulness in the issue of his providence, how all was disposed for our best
advantage.

           (3.)
We must join our endeavour in the use of all means with our prayers,
whether they be put up for spiritual or temporal blessings.  Lazy beggars are not to be relieved at
our door.  ‘This we commanded you,
that if any would not work, neither should he eat,’ II Thes. 3:10.  And certainly God will not bid them
welcome to his door whom he would have us deny at ours.  We must pray with our hand at the pump
or the ship will sink in sight of our prayers.

           Is
it temporal subsistence thou prayest for? 
Pray and work, or pray and starve. 
Dost thou think to set God at work whilst thou sittest with thy hand in
thy bosom?  Those two proverbs in
Solomon are observable, ‘The hand of the dili­gent maketh rich,’ Prov. 10:4;
and, ver.
22, ‘The blessing of the Lord, it maketh rich, and he
addeth no sorrow with it.’  He that
prays but is not diligent is not like to be rich.  He that is diligent but prays not may be rich, but he cannot
be blessed with his riches.  But he
that obtains his riches by sincere prayer in conjunction with his diligence is
rich by the blessing of God, and shall escape the sorrow which the worldling
lays up with his money; yea, though he gets not an estate, yet he hath the
blessing of God, and that makes him rich when there is no money in his purse.

           Again,
is it any spiritual blessing thou prayest for?  Wouldst thou have more knowledge in the things of God?  Think not it will drop into thy mind
without endeavour.  Daniel studied
as his eyes were one while on the book, and another while lift up to heaven in
prayer, Dan.
9:2.  ‘Many
shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased,’ Dan. 12:4.  It is got by running from one means to
another.  As the merchant's ship
takes in some of her freight at one port, some at another, so the Christian
gets some light in a sermon, some in a conference; some in one duty, some in
another.  And he that takes up one
duty, but through sloth neglects the rest, saves but his pains to lose his
gains.  Sometimes God is found in
this duty and sometimes in that, on purpose to keep up the credit of all, that
we waive none.

           (4.)
Our requests for both must be spiced with thanksgiv­ing.  ‘With thanksgiving let your requests be
made known,’ Php.
4:6; and, I Thes. 5:18, ‘in everything
give thanks.’  Art thou praying for
the love and favour of God?  Bless
God thou art where it may be ob­tained, and not in hell past hope or help. Is
it health thou desirest?  Bless God
for life; it is the Lord’s mercy we are not consumed.  No condition on earth can be of so sad a colour in which
there may not some eye of white, some mixture of mercy, be found inter­woven.  Puræ tenebræ—utter darkness,
without any stricture of mercy, is found in hell alone.  Come not therefore to pray till you
know also what to praise God for. 
As God hath an open hand to give, so he hath an open eye to see who
comes to his door, and to discern between the thankful beggar and the
unthankful.  Will God give more to
him on whom all is lost that he hath formerly bestowed?  Indeed he doth do good to the evil and
unthankful, but it is not a gracious return of their prayers, but an act of
common providence, of which they will have little comfort when he brings the
bounty of his providence in judgement against them, to aggravate their sins and
increase their torment.—Now follows a threefold dissimilitude which we are to
observe in framing our requests for spiritual and temporal mercies.

           2.
There is a threefold dissimilitude to be used in precatory prayer.  Temporal mercies are chiefly to be
desired for the sake of spiritual, but spiritual mercies for themselves, and
not for temporal advantages.

           (1.)
Temporal mercies are chiefly to be desired for the sake of spiritual
blessings, and not their own. The traveller desires a horse not for itself
so much as for the convenience of his journey he is to go.  Thus the Christian, when praying for
temporal things, should desire them as helps in his way and passage to
heaven.  I do not say it is
unlawful to desire life, health, and other comforts of this life, for the suit­ableness
these have to our natural affections, and to supply our outward necessities;
but to desire them only for this is low and base, it is the mere cry of the
creature.  The ravens thus cry, and
all the beasts of the field seek their meat of God; that is, they desire the
preservation of their lives, and make their moan when they want that which
should support them. And these creatures being made for no higher end than the
enjoyment of these particular narrow good things, they observe the law of their
creation.  But thou art an
intellectual being, and by thy immortal soul, which is a spiritual substance,
thou art as near akin to the angels in heaven as thou art by thy meaner bodily
part to the beasts, yea, allied to God thy Maker, not only made by him, as they
were, but for him, which they are not. 
He is thy chief good, and therefore thou infinitely dishonourest him and
thyself too if thou canst sit down short of him in thy desires.  Nihil bonum sine summo bono—nothing
should be good to thee without God, who is thy chief good.  Non placent tibi mea sine mecum, nec
tua mihi sine tecum—thus shouldst thou say and pray, O Lord, as all my
gifts and services do not please thee except with them I give thee myself, so
none of these gifts of thy bounty can content me except with them thou wilt
bestow thyself on me.  Now this
regular motion of the heart in praying for temporals is to be found only in
those whose inward wheels—I mean powers and faculties —are set right by the
hand of divine grace.  Man in his
corrupt state is like Nebuchadnezzar at grass—he hath a beast’s heart, that
craves no more than the sat­isfaction of his sensual appetite.  But when renewed by grace, then his
understanding returns to him, by which he is enabled in praying for temporals
to ele­vate his desires to a higher pitch and nobler end.

           Doth
sick David pray that some further time may be added to the lease of his
temporal life?  It is not out of a
fond love to this world or the carnal entertainments of it, but to prepare
himself the better for another life. 
‘O spare me,’ a little ‘that I may recover strength, before I go hence,
and be no more,’ Ps.
39:13.  Is he
comforted with hopes of a longer stay here?  It is not any of this world’s carnal pleasures that kindles
this joy in his holy breast, but the advan­tage he shall thereby have for
praising God in the land of the living. 
‘Hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my
countenance, and my God,’ Ps.
42:11.  The saint
hath as quick a sense to taste the sweetness of a temporal mercy as another;
but his heart being spiritual, and so acquainted with higher enjoyments, he
desires with Luther that God would not put him off with these shells of
blessings. O how few thus pray for temporals!  Most are but progging[4]
for their lusts while praying for them. 
‘Ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lusts,’ James 4:3.  One is sick, and prays for health that
he may be again at his pots or harlots. 
Another is child­less, and he would have an heir to uphold the pride and
grandeur of his house, but not the increase of Christ’s family in the
world.  A third would be a greater
man in the world—and for what?  May
be, that having more power he may take the fuller re­venge on his enemies that
are now out of his reach. And other that bring not their sacrifice with so evil
a mind, yet look no higher their carnal contentment in the enjoyment they would
have, as appears by their carriage in the use of it.  Thus the mariners in a sea‑storm, ‘Then they cry unto the
Lord in their trouble,’ Ps.
107:28. 
And when they have their life given them as they desire, ‘then are they
glad because they be quiet,’ and God hears no more of them now their turn is
served—a plain evidence that they were selfish and carnal in their prayer for
this mercy, because they improve it not for their spiritual end. Which makes
the psalmist break out into that holy option and vote, ‘Oh that men would
praise the Lord for his goodness,’ ver. 31.  But much more abominable is it to pray
for spiritual mercies for the sake of some temporal advantage we hope to have
by them.  Thus Simon Magus desired
the gifts of the Holy Ghost that he might be JÂH
µX(­"H—a
man of fame and name.  And do not
some labour to bring the gospel to town as an expedient to mend the takings in
their shop? —others pray for the assistances of the Spirit, and project their
own praise by the means, basely per­verting those holy things to secular
advantages?  O horrid baseness! As
if one should desire a prince’s robe to stop an oven with it!  This is, as Austin saith, uti Deo ut
fruamur mundo—to make God the stirrup and the creature our saddle.

           (2.)
Those spiritual blessings which are intrin­sical to our happiness and
indispensably necessary to our salvation, these we are to pray for with an
undeni­able importunity.  Such
are pardon of sin, the love and favour of God, and the sanctifying graces of
the Spirit.  To be cold or
indifferent in our prayers for these is a great wickedness.  The promise will bear us out in our
greatest importunity: ‘Seek the Lord, and his strength: seek his face
evermore,’ Ps.
105:4. ‘Whosoever will, let him take the water of life
freely,’ Rev.
22:17.  Tantum
possumus in negotio religionis, quantum volumus—we are powerful in the
matter of religion.  Nothing loseth
us these mercies more than weak velleities and faint desires of them.  But our prayers for temporal blessings
must be with a latitude of submission to the will of God, because they are
promised conditionally. The promise is the founda­tion of our faith, the
superstructure therefore of our prayers must not jet beyond it.  This was Israel’s sin —‘Who shall give
us flesh to eat?’ Num.
11:18.  God had
indeed promised to feed them in the wilderness, but not to give them every dish
their wanton palate craved; and therefore, when God’s bill of fare contents
them not, but they cry for flesh, they have their desire but sour sauce with
it; for, ‘while their meat was yet in their mouths, the wrath of God came upon
them, and slew the fattest of them,’ Ps. 78:31. Thus they were
fed for the slaughter by the meat they inordinately lusted after.  O take heed of peremptory prayers for
any temporal enjoyment, for thereby thou beggest but a rod for thy own back.  Rachel must have children or else she dies,
and she at last hath two, but dies in travail of the latter.  It was a smart saying of one to his
wife, who passionately desired a son, and had one at last, but none of the
wisest, ‘Wife,’ saith he, ‘thou hast long passionately desired a boy, and now thou
hast one that will always be a boy.’ 
God may justly set some print of his anger on that mercy which he
answers our peremptory prayers with. 
Why, alas! must we needs have that which we must needs lose, or shall
not enjoy while we have it?

           (3.)
Those spiritual blessings which are intrinsical to the saints’ happiness are to
be prayed for with boundless desires.  Not, Give me thus much grace and I will trouble thee for no
more.  No, God gives a little
grace, not to stop our mouth, but to open it wider for more.  Yet, alas! how unreasonably rea­sonable
are most in this particular!  So
much holiness contents them as will, like salt, keep them from putrefying in
gross sins, that they be not unsavoury to the nostrils of their neighbours, or
as will save them from the lash of their tormenting conscience; like
school-boys, that care for no more of their lesson than will save a
whipping.  Alas! this is not to
desire it at all; it is thy credit abroad and thy quiet within thou desirest,
and the other but to help thee to these. 
He that knows the true worth of grace thinks he hath never enough till
satisfied with it in glory.  Paul
had more than many of his brethren, yet prays and presseth as hard after more
as if he had none at all, Php.
3:13, 14. 
But in temporal enjoyments we are to stint our desires, and not let out
all the sails of our affections when praying for them.  A gracious heart is as unwilling to
have too much of these as afraid of having too little.  ‘Give me neither poverty nor riches;
feed me with food convenient for me,’ Prov. 30:8.  I think not a saint but could
cheerfully say amen to this prayer of Agur—I am sure he ought.  That house is best seated which stands
neither on the bleak top of the hill nor on the wet bottom.  The nature of these temporal good
things is enough to convince any wise man that the mean is best.  They are not the Chris­tian’s freight
but his ballast, and therefore are to be desired to poise, not load, the
vessel.  They are not his
portion—heaven is that; but his spending money in his journey thither; and what
traveller that is wise desires to carry any greater charge about him than will
pay for his quarters?

 

[Second kind of
petitionary prayer

—the deprecatory.]

 

           Second.
Deprecatory prayer.  The second
branch in the petitionary part of prayer is deprecation, wherein we desire
of God, in the name of Christ, the removal of some evil felt or feared,
inflicted or threatened.  So
that evil is the object of deprecation. 
Here I shall briefly point at the evils to be dep­recated, and how we
are to frame our requests to God in dep­recating of them.  All evil is comprehended in these
two:—1. Sin.  2. Suffering.

 

[First object of
deprecatory prayer.]

 

           1.
Object. Sin.  This indeed is
the evil of evils, against which chiefly we are to let fly the arrows of our
prayers.  This is the only thing
that is intrinsically evil in its own nature.  Suffering is rather evil to us than in itself, and
our sufferings have both their being and malignity from the evil of our
sins.  Had there been no sin, there
had been no suffering.  Where that
ceaseth, this is not to be found. 
No sorrow in heaven, because no sin.  These, like twins, live and die together.  ‘If thou doest not well, sin lieth at
the door;’ that is, if thou doest the evil of sin, prepare to meet with the
evil of suffering.  Now in sin two
things [are] to be deprecated: (1.) Guilt, and (2.) Filth—the defiling power of
sin.

           (1.)
Guilt.  This is the proper
effect and conse­quent of every sin. 
Whenever any sin is committed there is guilt contracted, whereby the
creature be­comes obnoxious to the wrath of God; and this guilt wears not off
by length of time, but continues bound upon the sinner till God by an act of
pardoning mercy absolves him.  So
that, though the act of sin be tran­sient, and passeth away as soon as the fact
is commit­ted, yet the creature is in the bond of his iniquity, held with this
chain of guilt as a prisoner to divine justice, till he by faith and repentance
sues out his pardon; even as a felon who, may be, is not presently after the
fact taken and brought into judgment, yet abides a debtor to the law, wherever
he is, till he can obtain his pardon. 
Now need I speak anything to set out the dismal and deplored
condition  of a soul un­der guilt,
thereby to provoke you to pray for the re­moval of it?  There is no mountain so heavy as the
guilt of the least sin is to an awakened conscience. Better thy house were
haunted with devils than thy soul with guilt.  If thy conscience tells thee thou art ‘in the bond of
iniquity,’ thou canst not be ‘in the gall of bitterness,’ they are joined
together, Acts
8:23.  Guilt is a
burden which the sinner can neither stand under nor throw off.  One compares him to a beast stung with
a gadfly—fain would he run from his pain, but still he finds it in him.  This lies throbbing in his soul like a
thorn in the flesh, and will not let him rest by day or sleep by night; he
turns himself on his bed as Regulius in his barrel stuck with nails—not an easy
plat that he can find in it.  This
makes him afraid of every disease that comes to town, pox or plague, lest it
should arrest him and bring him by death to judg­ment.  His guilt makes him think that every
bush a man, and every man a messenger of divine vengeance to slay him.  The ‘mark’ that God set upon guilty
Cain, Gen.
4:15,  is by many
interpreters conceived to be a trembling heart, made visible by a ghastly coun­tenance
and discomposed carriage of his outward man; and that passage, ver. 12,
‘A fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth,’ the Septuagint read
thus, FJX<T< 6"Â
JDXµT<
§F® ¦BÂ
J­H (­H
—thou shalt be sighing and trembling in the earth. No convulsion fit so
distorts the body as sin doth the soul.—Now in this prayer against guilt, and
for pardon, observe these particulars.

 

[Five particulars to
be observed

in praying against
guilt.]

 

           (a)
Pray with a deep sense and sorrow for thy sins.  The worse nonsense in prayer is of the
heart, when that hath no sense of the sin [the person praying] deprecates, or
of the mercy he desires.  Nothing
more hardens the heart of God against our prayer, than the hardness of our
heart in prayer; and, on the contrary, no such way to melt God into pity as for
our own hearts to dissolve into sorrow. 
He that would have us ‘give wine unto those that be of heavy hearts,’ Prov. 31:6,
saves this vessel—the promise, I mean, of pardoning mercy, which holds the
sweetest wine in God’s cellar—‘to revive the heart of the contrite ones,’ Isa. 57:15.  A tear in the eye for sin adorns the
creature more than a jewel in his ear, and his prayer more than all the
embroidery of expres­sions in it can do. 
While the publican smote his own breast, he got into God's bosom, and
carried a pardon home with him. 
Will Christ drop his blood to pro­cure thy pardon who canst shed no
tears for thy sin? The truth is, here lies the difficulty of the work—not how
to move God, but how to get the sinner's own heart melted.  It is harder to get sin felt by the crea­ture,
than the burden, when felt, removed by the hand of a forgiving God.  Never was tender-hearted chirurgeon
more willing to take up the vein and bind up the wound of his fainting patient,
when he hath bled enough, than God is, by his pardoning mercy, to ease the
troubled spirit of a mourning penitent. 
It is one rule he gives his servants in their practice upon their
spiritual patients, to beware of making too great an evacuation in the souls of
poor sinners by exces­sive humiliation, lest thereby the spirits of their faith
be too much weakened: ‘Sufficient to such a man is this punishment,’
&c.  ‘So that...ye ought rather
to forgive him, and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up
with overmuch sorrow,’ II
Cor. 2:6, 7.

           (b)
Justify and clear God in all the expressions of his displeasure for thy sins.  Thou dost perhaps carry the marks of
his anger on thy flesh in some outward judgement; or, which is worse, the
terrors of the Lord have taken hold of thy soul, and like poisoned arrows lie
burning in thy conscience, where they stick.  Acknowledge him just, and all this that has come upon thee
‘less than thy iniquities deserve,’ Ezra 9:13. The way to escape
the fatal stroke of his axe is to kiss the block. Clear his justice, and fear
not but his mercy will save thy life. Thou hast a promise on thy side: ‘If then
their uncircumcised hearts be humbled, and they then accept of the punishment
of their iniquity: then will I remember my covenant,’ Lev. 26:41, 42.  David took this course and sped, ‘For I
acknowledge my transgressions,’ Ps. 51:3.  And why is he so willing to spread his sins in his
confession before the Lord?  See ver. 4:
‘That thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou
judgest.’  He would have all the
world know that God did him no wrong in the judgments that came upon him; he
takes all the blame upon himself.

           (c)
Take heed thou prayest not with a reserva­tion.  Be sure thou renouncest what thou
wouldst have God remit.  God will
never remove the guilt so long as thou entertainest the sin.  What prince will pardon his treason
that means to continue a traitor? It is desperate folly to desire God to
forgive what thou intendest to commit. 
Thou hadst as good speak out and ask leave to sin with impunity, for God
knows the language of thy heart, and needs not thy tongue to be an interpreter.
Some princes have misplaced their high favours to their heavy cost, as the
emperor Leo Armenius, who pardoned that monster of ingratitude Michael Balbus,
and was in the same night in which he was delivered out of prison murdered by
him.  But the great God is subject
to no mistake in his govern­ment. 
Never got a hypocrite pardon in the disguise of a saint.  He will call thee by thy own name,
though thou comest to him in the semblance of a penitent.  ‘Come in, thou wife of Jeroboam,’ said
the prophet. Hypocrisy is too thin a veil to blind the eyes of the Al­mighty.  Thou mayest put thy own eyes out, so as
not to see him; but thou canst never blind his eyes that he should not see
thee.  And as long as God loves himself,
he must needs hate the hypocrite; and if he hates him, surely he will not
pardon him.  The par­doned soul and
the sincere are all one.  ‘Blessed
is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there
is no guile,’ Ps.
32:2.

           (d)
Make Christ thy plea.  Pardon
of sin is a fa­vour not known in the first covenant.  Do, and live; sin, and die, were all its contents.  No room left for an after-game by that
law.  The gospel covenant is our tabula
post naufragium—the only plank by which we may recover the shore after our
miserable wreck. This covenant is founded in Christ, who, upon agreement with
his Father, undertook to answer the demands of the law, and happily performed
what he undertook; upon which the gospel is preached, and pardon prom­ised to
all that repent and believe on him. 
‘Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a Saviour,’
Acts 5:31.  Him hath God ‘set forth to be a
propitiation through faith in his blood,’ Rom. 3:25.  As therefore, when Christ intercedes
for poor sinners, he carries his blood with him and presents it to God, for the
price of that forgiveness he desires for them; so thou mayest bring the same
blood in the hand of thy faith when thou prayest for the pardon of thy sins,
for ‘without shedding of blood is no remission,’ Heb. 9:22. This is
the more to be heeded, because many, out of ignorance, and some from a corrupt
principle, apply themselves to their prayers to the absolute goodness and mercy
of God for pardon.  Ask them why
they hope to be forgiven, and they will tell you, ‘God is good, and they hope
he will be merciful to them, see­ing his nature is so gracious.’  But, alas! they forget he is just as
well as merciful, and mercy will not act but with the consent of his
justice.  Now the only salve for
the justice of God is the satisfaction of Christ.  ‘Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith
in his blood, to declare his righteous­ness;...that he might be just, and the
justifier of him which believeth in Jesus,’ Rom. 3:25, 26.  So that, to de­sire God to forgive thee
thy sin without the interven­ing of Christ’s satisfaction, is to desire God to
be un­just, and pardon thee with the loss of his own honour; and how welcome
thou art like to be that comest to him on such an errand, is easy to think.

           (e)  Lastly, take no denial in this thy
request, but, pray for it with unwearied importunity.  It is a mercy thou canst not want; it
is more necessary than thy very being. 
Better never to be than ever be unpar­doned.  Think but a little on thy dismal condition while guilt is
not taken off and thy pardon not obtained, and it is impossible that thou
shouldst e a cold faint suitor for this mercy of mercies.  Know, then, while unpardoned thou art
God’s prisoner.  All the plagues
written in the law cleave as close to thee as thy girdle to thy loins.  Every moment thou mayest fear they
should take hold upon thee as thou walkest in thy house, sittest at thy table,
or liest on thy bed. Where canst thou be safe who hast God {for} thine enemy?  Can the bread resist him that eats it?
or the tree withstand the axe of the feller? truly no more canst thou the wrath
of an avenging God.  Is it not he
that holds the stoutest devils in chains?—he who can kindle a fire in thy own
bones and bosom, and make thee consume like lime with the inward burning of thy
self‑tormenting thoughts?  Is he
not a righteous God, whose justice binds him, in the distributions of justice,
to be exact according to the sinner’s demerit? Is he not the everlasting
God?—not a sorry creature, who may threaten thee to‑day, and be dead himself to‑morrow;
but eternity itself, who ever lives to take vengeance on sinners, out of whose
hands thou canst not escape by dying?

           In
earthly courts, when the man dies his cause dies with him, because out of their
jurisdiction, and past their summons. 
But, at death, thou fallest into the hands of the living God, who will
pursue his quar­rel with thee in the other world also.  No sooner is thy soul abandoned of thy
body and turned out of its earthly house, but it shall return to God to receive
its doom.  Neither shall thy body
long rest in the grave where it is earthed, but be called forth to share with
the soul in torment, whose partner it hath been in sin.  The parting of these at death to a guilty
soul is sad enough; but their meeting again at the great day of judgement will
be much more dismal.  For husband
and wife, that have joined in some bloody murder, to be attached and sent to
several prisons in order to their trial, must needs fill them with fear and
terror of their approaching judgment, but much more dreadful is it to them when
brought forth to receive their sen­tence, and suffer at the same gibbet
together.  At death, the sinner's
body is disposed of to one prison, his soul to another, and both meet again at
the great day of assize for the world—then to be sent by the final sentence of
the Judge to everlasting flames in hell’s fiery furnace, where, after the poor
wretch hath experimented a thousand millions of years the weight of God’s just
vengeance, he shall find himself no nearer the end of his misery than he was
the first day wherein his torment commenced.  Then death will be desired as a favour, but it shall flee
from him—his misery being both intolerable and interminable.  By this time, I suppose, a pardon will
be thought worth thy having, and too good to be lost by sluggish sleepy praying
for it.  When, therefore, thou hast
chafed thy soul thus into a sense of the indispensable necessity of this mercy,
then take up a holy resolution to lay thy siege to the throne of grace, and
never to rise till God open the gates of his mercy to thee.  As it is so necessary thou canst not
want it; so thou hast the promise of a faithful God that thou shalt not miss
it, upon the timely and sincere seeking of it.  ‘If we con­fess, he is faithful and just to forgive.’  Prayers and tears are the weapons with
which the Almighty may be overcome. 
Manasseh, who could not on his throne —when he sinned and stouted it out
against God —defend himself from the justice of God, yet in his dungeon and
fetters, greatly humbling himself before the Lord, obtained his mercy.  So Ephraim, ‘when he spake trembling,
he exalted himself in Israel; but when he offended in Baal, he died,’ Hosea 13:1.

           (2.)
The second thing in sin to be deprecated is the defiling power of it.  He that desires not to be purged from
the filth of sin, prays in vain to be eased of the guilt.  If we love the work of sin, we must
like the wages also.  A false
heart, could be willing to have his sin covered, but the sincere desires his
nature to be cured and cleansed. 
David begged a clean heart as well as a quiet conscience: ‘Blot out all
mine iniqui­ties; create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit
within me,’ Ps.
51:9, 10. 
He desires water to purify his heart, as well as blood to sprinkle and
pa­cify his conscience.  Now, in
framing thy requests as to this, observe these particulars.

 

[Five particulars to
be observed in praying

against the
defilement of sin.]

 

           (a)  Be sure thou comest with a deep
abhorrence of thyself for that sin-filth which cleaves to thee.  This is called ‘knowing the plague of a
man’s own heart,’ I
Kings 8:38, when a creature is affected and afflicted
with the sense of his corruptions, as if he had so many plague sores running
upon him, and bathes himself for them, as much as Job did for the boils and
sores with which his body was covered. 
The leper was commanded, in order to his cure, to put himself into a
mourner’s habit: ‘His clothes shall be rent, and his head bare, and he shall
put a covering upon his upper lip, and shall cry, Unclean, unclean,’ Lev. 13:45.  Why all this, but to express the deep
sense of his sin and misery?  Look
upon the saints in scripture, and you shall find this was their way to abase
themselves in their prayers with the greatest self-abhorrency that was
possible.  Penitent David takes the
fool, yea the beast, unto himself; he knows not how to speak bad enough of
himself.  ‘So foolish was I, and
ignorant: I was as a beast before thee,’ Ps. 73:22.  Holy Job cries out, ‘I abhor myself,
and repent in dust and ashes,’ Job 42:6.  Others blush, and are as much ashamed to be seen in the
presence of God, as one that had fallen into some puddle or jakes[5]
would be in that pickle to come before his prince.

           (b)
In praying against thy lusts, look thy heart goes with thy tongue.  In nothing so our hearts put more
cheats upon us than in our prayers, and in no requests more than in those which
are levelled against our lusts. 
That is least oftentimes intended which is most pretended.  And truly we had need be well ac­quainted
with ourselves before we can find the bot­tom of our designs.  Austin confesseth, when he was a young
man, and forced by conviction in his con­science to pray that God would deliver
him out of the bondage of his lust, that yet the secret whispers of his heart
were non adhuc, Domine—not yet, Lord.  He was afraid that God would take him at his word. Thus the
hypocritical Jews first ‘set up their idols in their heart,’ Eze. 14:3.  This is a great wickedness.  And it were a just, though a heavy
plague, for God to answer such according to the secret vote of their hearts, by
them up to those lusts which they inwardly crave. When Paul begs prayers for
himself, to embolden them in their requests for him, he assures them of his
sincerity: ‘Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience, in all things
willing to live honestly,’ Heb. 13:18.  As if he had said, I durst not make you
my spokesmen to God, if my heart did not check me that I did secretly comply
with any sin, and did not mean in all things to live honestly.  How then canst thou have the face to go
thyself to God on an errand to desire that of him which thou wouldst be loath
to have.

           Question.
But how may we come to know that our hearts are sincere or hypocritical in
praying against the defiling power of sin?

           Answer
[1].  Observe whether thy prayer be
uni­form—laid against all sin, one lust as well as another. Sincerity
makes not here a balk and there a furrow; is not hot against one lust and cold
against another; but goes through stitch in the work: it ‘hates every false
way,’ Ps.
119:104. 
It shoots its arrows at the whole flock, and singles not this sin out in
his prayers which he would have taken, and that left: ‘Let not any iniquity
have dominion over me,’ ver.
133.  He knows
if all his chains were knocked off, and only one left upon him, he should be as
true a slave to Satan as if all the other were still on.  He prays not against one sin because a
great one, and pleads for another be­cause it is a little one.  The dust and rubbish help to fill up
the wall as well as the great stones; little sins contribute as well as great
to make up the partition wall between God and the creature.  Every little speck blemisheth the
garment, and every penny increaseth the sums.  So little sins defile the soul and swell the sinner's
account.  Therefore he prays
against them as well as the other. 
David, who desired to be kept back from ‘presumptuous sins,’ did also
beg to be ‘cleansed from his secret faults,’ Ps. 19:12.

           Answer
[2]. Observe whether thy heart stand firmly resolved to renounce that sin
thou prayest God to subdue. 
The sincere Christian binds himself, as well as labours to engage God
against his sin.  Indeed that
prayer is a blank which hath not a vow in it.  ‘Thou...hast heard my vows,’ Ps. 61:5; that is,
his pray­ers, which are always to be put up with vows.  Is it a mercy thou prayest him to
give?  If sincere, thou wilt vow to
praise him for it and serve him with it. 
Is it a sin thou prayest against? 
Except thou jugglest with God thou wilt vow as well as pray against
it.  ‘Remove from me the way of
lying,’ Ps.
119:29. 
There is David’s deprecation. 
Now, mark his promise and vow: ‘I have chosen the way of truth: thy
judgments have I laid before me,’ ver. 30.  While he prays against the way of lying
he chooseth the way of truth.

           Answer
[3]. Observe whether thou beest vigor­ous in the use of all appointed means
to mortify the lust thou prayest against.  Resolutions in the time of prayer are good when backed with
strenuous endeav­ours, else but a blind for a false heart to cover itself
with.  Samson did not only pray he
might be avenged on his enemies, but set his hands to the pillars of the
house.  He that hath bid thee pray
against thy lust hath bid thee shun the occasions of it.  ‘Remove thy way far from her, and come
not nigh the door of her house, lest thou give thy honour unto others,’ Prov. 5:8;
that is, lest thou be hooked in to her by the occa­sion.  Thus Joseph, that he might not be drawn
to lie with his mistress, would not stay alone in the room with her, Gen. 39:7-12.  So, Prov. 23:20, ‘be not
among wine-bibbers;’ and, ‘look not on the wine when it is red, when it giveth
his colour in the cup,’ ver.
31, be­cause look­ing may breed liking.  Now, art thou con­scientiously careful
to keep out of the way that leads to the sin, and to shun the occasion that
might betray thee into the hands of that lust thou prayest against? Certainly,
he that would not have his house blown up will not have set his gunpowder in
the chimney-corner.

           (c)
Again, God, who bids thee pray against thy lusts, commands thee also to take
the sword of his word, by meditating on it, and applying it close to thy heart
and conscience, to cut them down and get victory over them.  Thus did David. He hid the word in his
heart that he might not sin.  Thou
prayest against covetousness.  O
that God would rid thy heart of it! 
Well, what dost thou towards thy own delivery from this base lust?  Here is a sword put into thy hand,
whose edge is sharp enough to cut and kill if thou wilt lay it on in good
earnest.  This sets forth the
vanity of the creature—how vile and base a sin covet­ousness is; takes away all
occasion of inordinate desires and cares for the world by many sweet
promises—what he hath laid up in another world for us, and what care in his
providence he will take for us in this life.  ‘Let your conversation be without covet­ousness; and be
content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave thee,
nor forsake thee,’ Heb.
13:5.  Now, what
use doth thou make of this weapon? 
Dost thou strengthen thy assent to the truth of these promises?—labour
to affect thy heart with the sweetness of them, and then draw forth this sword
to defend thyself against this lust when the enemy comes with a temptation to
it?  If so, thou wert sincere in
thy prayer.  A false heart contents
it­self with a few idle lay prayers against his lust, but is afraid to use this
sword against it.  Or, if he doth,
he strikes with the back and not the edge; or lays his stroke so favourably on
that it shall not much endanger the life of his sin—like a mountebank, that
will be sure to make no worse wound in his side than his balsam will in a day
or two cure.

           Now,
to raise thy heart to the greater vehemency in praying against thy lusts,
labour deeply to affect thy heart what a fearful plague it is—indeed, of all
other incomparably the greatest—for a soul to be given up of God to the power
of his lusts.  This consideration,
if any, will make thee lay close siege to God and set upon him with the utmost
importunity, knowing thou art an undone creature if thou speedest not in thy
errand.  When God intends to smite
home he takes his aim at the heart, he gives the creature over to his
lusts.  Thus he hardened Pharaoh to
a final obstinacy, ‘I will...send all my plagues upon thine heart,’ Ex. 9:14.
They did not only light upon the beasts and fruits of the field, or upon their
own bodies, but chiefly upon their hearts and spirits, hardening them into
obsti­nacy to their destruction. 
And this, indeed, is to send all plagues in one.  Other plagues, that reach only to
estate or body, are consistent with the love and favour of God.  He can smite the body and smile on the
soul; blast the man’s estate and bless him with spiritual riches; make him poor
in the world and rich in faith. 
But he that is given up to his lusts is abhorred of God.  A saint may be given up to Satan ut
lictori—to correct him, for the destruction of the flesh and saving of his
spirit; but it is the brand of a reprobate to be delivered up to Satan ut
domino —that his lusts may have full power over him; which judiciary act of
God portends the sinner’s destruction, Deut. 2:30; II Thes. 2:11.  Outward plagues are some­times in the
sinner’s mouth as a bridle to restrain him from sin.  But this is a spur that makes them more mad after their
lusts; it takes away the sense of sin, and then the wretch plays the
devil.  Nothing will stop him in
his way, but to hell he will go over hedge and ditch.

           (d)
Pray against the power of thy lusts as a branch of the gospel covenant.  God is not bound by the first covenant
to stir a foot for man’s help.  Man
went of his own accord over to the devil’s quarters. He deserted God and chose
a new lord; and in his hands God might have left him, without offering any help
for his rescue.  It was not any tie
that man had upon God by the covenant of nature which obliged him, but his own
free grace that moved him, to undertake his recovery.  And this he doth by making a new covenant on the ruins of
the old.  So that, whoever will
pray against his lusts with success must first become a covenanter with God, by
accepting the terms upon which God in it offers to save us from our sins, and
they are faith and repentance. 
When the soul doth thus face about from his sins to close with Christ,
then he becomes a covenanter with God, and may, with faith, call God into the
field for his help against this huge host of lusts and devils that come against
him.  God’s chariots are his; the
whole militia of heaven is engaged in his quarrel.  ‘Sin shall not have dominion over you’—and why?—‘for ye are
not under law but under grace,’ Rom. 6:14; that is, you are not under the law
covenant made with Adam, but under the gospel covenant made with Christ, and
through him with all believers.  O
how many prayers against sin are lost for want of well understanding this grand
notion of the gospel!  A great cry
is made and complaint by many of their sins to God, and victory over them
pretend to be desired; yet they live and grow stronger every day than
other.  And what is the
reason?  Alas! they stand not in a
federal relation to God; neither take they any care how to get into it. Will a
prince raise an army to fight for he knows not whom?  Indeed, if his subjects or allies be in distress he is ready
to step in for their succour; but strangers cannot expect he should do this for
them.  Leagues are made before
assistance desired.  God first prom­ised
to bring Israel ‘into the bond of his covenant,’ Eze. 20:37;
and then, that he will ‘accept them with your sweet savour,’ ver. 41.  David knew this very well, that the
carnal world are abandoned by God, to be trod under the foot of every lust; and
therefore, when he prays God would order his steps in his word, and let no
iniquity have dominion over him, he desires it as a favour peculiar to those
that were near and dear to him: Deal with me ‘as thou usest to do unto those that
love thy name,’ Ps.
119:132.

           (e)
Pray not only against the power of sin, but for the power of holiness also.  A naughty heart may pray against his
sins, not out of any inward enmity to them, or love to holiness, but because
they are troublesome guests to his conscience.  Believe it for a certain truth, his zeal is false that seems
hot against sin but is key‑cold to holiness.  A city is rebellious that keeps their rightful prince out
though it receives not his enemy in. 
Nay, the devil needs not fear but at last he shall make that soul his
garrison again, out of which for a while he seems shut, so long as it stands
empty and is not filled with solid grace, Matt. 12:44, 45.  What indeed should hinder Satan’s
re-entry into that house which hath not in it to keep him out?

 

[Second object of
deprecatory prayer.]

 

           2.
Object.  The second object
of deprecatory prayer is suffering.  Sin brought suffering into the world.  Sin is indeed the elder twin, but
suffering stayed not long after it; for it took it by the heel, presently
arresting Adam upon the very place where he committed his trespass, and ever
since follows it as close as the shadow doth the body.  It leaves not the saint till death
parts him and his sin, but pursues the wicked with their sins into the other
world also.  So that this
distribution of suffering into temporal and eternal shall content us at
present—they being comprehensive of all the miseries which sin hath brought
upon the sons of men.  Now my work
in this place shall be only to direct the Christian how to frame his prayer in
deprecating the one and the other also. 
(1.) Temporal sufferings—how the Christian is to deprecate and pray
against them.  (2.) Eternal
suffering.

 

[How the Christian is
to pray against

temporal sufferings.]

 

           (1.)
Temporal sufferings—how the Christian is to deprecate and pray against
them.

           [1.]
Negatively—The Christian is not to pray for an immunity from all
temporal sufferings.  There is no
foundation for such a prayer in the promise; and what God thinks not fit to
promise we must not be bold to ask. 
Temporal promises are to be under­stood, saith Melancthon, cum
exceptione crucis —with exception of the cross.  God had one Son without sin, but he will have none in this
life without suffering.  John
writes himself, ‘Your brother, and companion in tribulation,’ Rev. 1:9.  He hath too high an opinion of himself
that would have God lead him dryshod on a fair causeway to heaven, while he
sees the rest of his brethren march through thick and thin to the same place;
or who thinks he needs not this thorn‑hedge of suffering, to keep him as well
as others from wandering out of his way to glory.  The rod and ferule are not more needful among children at
school than suffering is to the saints while in their minority here on
earth.  If thou wert come to that
ripeness of ingenuity as to have worn off all thy childishness, thou shouldst
stay here no longer under the lash; but while thou art subject to sin thou must
submit to his disciplinary rod. 
Valetudinarious[6]
bodies can as well spare food as physic, and saints in this their crazy state
may as well live without ordinances as without sufferings.  In a word, to pray absolutely against
all suffering is to desire one of the greatest punishments on this side
hell.  When God said, ‘I will not
punish your daughters when they commit whoredom,’ Hosea 4:14,
he meant them no good by sparing his rod. 
If we count him an unwise father that, when he puts his child to school,
indents with his master not to whip him; surely much more folly were it in thee
to desire God to privilege thee from all suffering.

           [2.]
Affirmatively—how he may and should pray against sufferings; and in
these particulars following.

           (a)
Deprecate the vindictive justice and wrath of God in all temporal sufferings.  Thus Jeremiah shapes his prayer, ‘O
Lord, correct me, but with judgment; not in thine anger, lest thou bring me to
nothing,’ Jer.
10:24, and, ch. 17:17, ‘Be not a terror unto me: thou art
my hope in the day of evil.’  He
declines not suffering but deprecates wrath.  As if he had said, ‘Let trouble come, but not with this
message—to tell me thou art mine enemy; shoot thy darts, my breast is open to
re­ceive them; but let them not be envenomed arrows headed with thy punitive
justice.’  Without this sting all
suffering is innocent and harmless. 
But if the creature does fear—though without just cause—that they are
shot out of justice's bow, then they drink up his spirits and exanimate him
presently.  ‘When thou with rebukes
dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a
moth,’ Ps.
39:11.  That holy
woman, I
Kings 17:18, was not so much distressed for her son's
death as for the reflec­tion this sad providence made upon her conscience: ‘Art
thou come...to call my sin to remembrance, and to slay my son?’  Thou canst not therefore be too
passionately importunate in deprecating this.

           (b)
Deprecate the snare and temptation that suf­fering may expose thee to.  Satan commonly finds it easy to make
some sinful impression upon the saint when he is heated, and his ‘heart made
soft,’ as Job phraseth it, ‘in the furnace of affliction.’  He is a rare Christian in whom the
stream of his grace runs clear upon such royling.  Job was a man of a thousand —God’s nonesuch: ‘None like him
in the earth, a perfect and an upright man,’ Job 1:8; yet
bewrayed many weaknesses in his troubles, and would have done more, had not God
in pity to his poor servant taken the devil off before he had quite run him
down. Christ teacheth us to pray against suffering under the notion of
temptation: ‘Lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil.’  That is, let us not be led into sin
when we fall into suffering, let us not fall into thy hands and Satan’s
together.  This discovers a holy
frame of heart—to be more tender of our conscience than skin; not so much to
fear affliction from God, as, left in it, we should be have ourselves unseemly
and unholily towards him.  Agur is
not so much ashamed to beg as afraid to steal, and so take the name of his God
in vain, upon which account he chiefly prays against poverty, Prov. 30:8, 9.  There is nothing lost by serving God
first and preferring his honour before our own private interest in our prayers.
Self‑denial is the best for self‑seeking; for, by neg­lecting ourselves for
God's sake, we oblige him to take the care of us upon himself, and he is the
only happy man who hath his stake laid up in God’s hands.

           (c)
Deprecate the excess of suffering—that thou beest not overladen, thy
burden too heavy for thy back. 
This is promised.  Thou
mayest therefore pre­sent it in faith: ‘I will make a full end of all the
nations whither I have driven thee: but I will not make a full end of thee, but
correct thee in measure;’ Jer.
46:28.  The
patient doth not intrench upon the physician’s art by desiring him to
proportion his dose according to the weakness of his body, if, when he hath
done this, he acquiesceth in his skill and faith­fulness for the same.  Indeed, to desire God to con­sider our
weakness, and then not to rely on his wis­dom and care, but continue jealous
and suspicious, or to murmur at his prescriptions, as if the physic he gives
were too churlish and strong, this makes a dis­honourable reflection upon
God.  Sometimes the physician
exceeds the proportion that his fearful pa­tient thinks strong enough, but
withal tells him, ‘You are not so weak as you take yourself to be.  Your body may bear so many grains more
in the composition. Leave me to my art and all shall be well.’  Thus God, who knows our frame exactly,
deals with his people, and is highly pleased to see them satisfied with what he
orders them out: ‘In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly,’ Job 1:22;
@Û6 §*T6,<
•ND@Fb<0< Jè
2,è—so the Septuagint reads it—he did not
impute folly to God; indeed the word {Hebrew Characters Omitted}
(tiphlah), is a noun.  The
meaning of the place is, Job did not make any unworthy reflection upon God for
the evils he suf­fered by his providence, as if anything were wanting in his
care or wisdom, like some rash physician, who fails either in timing or
tempering his physic.

           (d)
Thou mayest not only deprecate these evils in thy affections, but also pray
believingly for a happy issue out of them all.  The darkest lane of suffering shall, to the saint, have a
lightsome end.  And all, we say, is
well that ends well.  ‘Ye have
heard of the pa­tience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord; that the Lord
is very pitiful,’ James
5:11.  This is
that which God so fully intends in all his saints’ troubles, that he takes
pleasure in thinking of it beforehand: ‘I know the thoughts that I think toward
you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace,’ Jer. 29:11.  And that petition comes in a happy time
to court, which finds the king thinking of the very business it prays for.

           (2.)
Eternal suffering.  The
second kind of suf­fering is eternal in hell.  This is the center in which all the lines of sin and of
misery meet—the common shoal into which they all disgorge themselves, as rivers
do their streams into the vast ocean. 
And as rivers, when they are fallen into the sea, lose their several
names in one that comprehends them all—the ocean; so all the evils of this
life, when resolved into this, forget their private names—sickness, pains,
poverty, &c,—and are called hell. 
Not that these are all for­mally and literally there, but virtually, in
that the torment of the damned doth not only amount to, but, beyond expression,
exceed them all.  As in heaven
there is no belly-cheer, yet a feast; no silks and satins worn, yet all in
glorious robes; as silver is in gold, and gold in a jewel, so all these are in
heaven—because that which is of infinite more value and worth than such things
as are of highest reckoning on earth. Thus the great miseries of this life are
incomparably less than the least torment of hell.  Never can the creature say he is completely miserable, till
the devouring jaws of that infernal pit inclose him.  Were the worst of his punishment what he feels here, he
might in a manner bless himself; as Paul, on the contrary saith, he should
judge the saint miserable above others, if all his hope were here.  But there is the sinner’s easeless
endless state.  There is not so
much as one well day to release him a while from his pain, but he shall con­tinue
forever in the height of his paroxysm; no change of weather or hope of
clearing, but a perpetual storm set in to rain fire and brimstone upon him to
all eternity, for so long it will be before the arm of the Almighty is weary of
pouring out his wrath, or his heart be brought in love with sin, and reconciled
to the sinner.  Now, in deprecating
this, we should endeavour to keep this threefold notion of hell in our
thoughts, for which above all we are to desire to be delivered from it.

           (a)
Conceive of hell as a state of sin as well as of suffering, yea, in its
utmost height.  Earth is a middle
place betwixt heaven and hell. 
Neither sin in the wicked, nor grace in the saint, come here to their
full ripeness.  Grace being an
outlandish[7]
slip brought from heaven’s paradise, riseth not to its just height and
procerity[8]Tallness; highth of
stature. — From Webster’s,
till it be transplanted and set in its native climate from whence it came.  And sin, being a brat of hell, comes
not to its full complexion and monstrosity, till it be sent back to the place
it came from.  Here poor wretches
are tolled on to sin by the pleasure it promiseth.  But there they sin out of mal­ice, for nothing else can
invite them where this morsel is eaten with such sour sauce.  On earth the sinner is maidenly, and
conceals the venom that is bagged in his heart; but in hell he spits it out in
blasphemies against heaven. In a word, here he sins with wavering thoughts, and
some weak purposes of repenting, but there he is as desperate as the devil
himself—hard­ened beyond all relenting. 
Now, under this notion, thou shouldst pray to be delivered from hell,
that thou mayest never be one of that damned crew, who think it not enough to
fight against God their Maker on earth, but carry the war with them into the
other world also, and there continue their feud with implac­able enmity to
eternity.  Certainly the saints—to
whom the notions of sin in this life are so grievous, above all the crosses and
losses that befall them, and who count a few years’ neighbourhood among the
wicked so great an affliction, that they cry, ‘Woe is me, that I sojourn in
Meshech, that I dwell in the tents of Kedar’—must needs deprecate that dismal
state with their utmost vehemency of spirit, wherein they should be
everlastingly yoked with sin, and cooped up with unclean sinners, both which
they loathe so perfectly.

           It
was the speech of a gracious woman when on the very marches of death: ‘O Lord,
send me not to hell among such filthy company, which thou knowest I have not
liked on earth.’  But as for those
that can fadge very well with their lusts, and the company of the wicked here,
I know not how they can thus depre­cate that place where they shall meet with
that which pleaseth them so much on earth.  David, Ps.
26, first protests his abhorrency against the ways and
society of the wicked: ‘I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in
with dissemblers; I have hated the congregation of evil-doers; and will not sit
with the wicked,’ ver.
4, 5: then his zeal for God, and delight he had in his house
to praise and serve him, ver.
6-8.  After
which, he breaks out into this prayer, ‘Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my
life with bloody men,’ ver.
9.  As if he
had said, I am not of their knot in my life, O let me not be of their bundle at
my death.  I have praised thee on
earth, send me not to blaspheme thee in hell.  I have loved the habitations of thy house here, let me not
dwell with unclean spirits hereafter.

           (b)
Hell is a state of separation from the blissful presence of God.  Pray to be delivered from it under this
notion—as it is the last, yea, everlasting excommunication of the creature from
God.  ‘Go, ye cursed,’ that is,
never to see my sweet face more—called therefore ‘outer darkness,’ because not
the least beam or stricture of his favour to enlighten the souls of the damned,
nor the least crevice is left open for hope to expect it.  The heat of hell-fire is not so dismal,
as the want of this light.  This
makes them cursed; ‘Go, ye cursed.’ 
The curse lies in their depar­ture from God, the fountain of all
blessing.  All be­sides this were
tolerable.  Would God cast but one
kind look upon those miserable souls, as they swim in this lake of fire and
brimstone, it were able to change the property of the place, and the joy
thereof were enough to take away the sense of their torment.  The three worthies in Daniel could walk
in the fire, having God to bear them company, as if they had been only in the
sunshine.  That which a saint
prizeth most in heaven is the presence of God: ‘So shall we ever be with the Lord,’
I Thes.
4:17.  And hell
is most dreaded by them, because a gulf is fixed between the souls in it and
God, that no communion can be had with him to all eternity.  O how few pray against hell under this
notion! how few cry out with David, ‘Cast me not away from thy presence!’ Ps. 51:11.  If this were the thing above all they
feared should befall them in the other world, would they so willingly live
without ac­quaintance with God in this world?  Surely no.

           (c)
Hell is a state wherein the damned can never actually satisfy God’s justice;
for their debt being infinite, and they, because creatures, but finite, will
ever be paying.  But the last
farthing can never be paid, which is the only reason they lie forever in
prison, because it can never be said, ‘Now God hath his due.’  But Christ, the saints’ pay-master, dis­charged
their whole debt at once, and took in the bond, which he nailed to his cross,
leaving no back-reckoning unpaid, to bring the believer afterward into any
danger from the hands of divine justice. 
Now, as an ingenuous debtor desires his freedom at his cred­itor’s
hands, that thereby he may be capable of paying his debt, as well as to escape
the misery that himself should endure by his imprisonment; so an ingenuous soul—and
such is every saint—deprecates hell, as well with an eye to God’s glory, as to
his own ease and happiness.  Lord,
saith the sincere soul, if thou pack­est me away to hell, there I shall pay
thee, it is true, by my just torments something in a dribbling way by retail,
but never be able to discharge the whole sum; but at Christ’s hands thou mayest
receive to the full what thy justice can demand at mine, and also make me thy
poor creature a trumpeter of thy praise to eternity.  O send me not to blaspheme thee among that wretched crew of
damned souls and unclean spirits, who so much desire to join with the choir of
holy angels and saints in singing hallelujahs to thy holy and glorious name.

 

[Third kind of
petitionary prayer

—the imprecatory.]

 

           Third.
Imprecatory prayer; wherein the Chris­tian imprecates the vengeance of God upon
the ene­mies of God and his people. 
On such a sad and sol­emn errand are the saints’ prayers sometimes sent
to heaven, and speed as effectually as when they go to obtain blessings for
themselves and the church of God. 
And no wonder, for they are perfumed with Christ’s merits, and thereby
are as acceptable to God as any other they put up in his name.  ‘And the smoke of the incense, which
came with the prayers of the saints, ascended up before God,’ Rev. 8:4.  Now what kind of prayers these were is
clear by the next words, ‘And the angel took the censer, and filled it with
fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, and
thunderings, and lightnings, and an earthquake,’ ver. 5.  By which is signified the dreadful
judgments which God in answer to his saints’ prayers would bring upon the
wicked world, whose bloody persecutions of the church, and fury against the
truth of God, made the saints to cry to heaven for vengeance upon them; and
that it should come inevitably come as thunder, lightning, and earthquakes,
that can be resisted by no power or policy of the greatest monarch on
earth.  Thus, as at the firing of
some cannon planted against a city, you may see its turrets or wall come
tumbling down; so, upon the prayers of the saints, great judgments were
certainly to befall the enemies of God and his church. Now, the path wherein
the Christian is here to tread being very narrow, he is to be the more cautious
that he steps not awry.  He is, in
this part of prayer which is imprecatory, like one that drives a chariot on the
brow of a steep hill, who, if he hath not the quicker eye and steadier hand,
may soon spoil all.  The high­est
strains of a saint’s duty run nearest the most dan­gerous precipices, as the
most mysterious truths are soonest perverted into the most damnable
errors.  I shall therefore first
lay down a few particulars which may serve as a rail to compass in this duty,
for the better securing the Christian from falling into any miscarriage about
it.

           1.
Take heed thou dost not make thy private particular enemies the object of
thy imprecation.  We have no
warrant, when any wrong us, presently to go and call for fire from heaven upon
them.  We are bid, indeed, to heap
coals upon our enemy’s head, but they are of love, not of wrath and
revenge.  Job sets a black brand
upon this, and clears himself from the imputation of so great a sin: ‘If I
rejoiced at the des­truction of him that hated me,...neither have I suffered my
mouth to sin by wishing a curse to his soul,’ Job 31:29, 30.  He durst not wish his enemy ill, much
less deliberately form a wish into a prayer, and desire God to curse him.  Our Saviour hath taught us a more
excellent way: ‘Bless them that curse you,...and pray for them which
despitefully use you,’ Matt.
5:44.  I know
this is counted a poor sheepish spirit by many of our gallants.  Go pray for them? No, send them the
glove rather, and be revenged on them in a duel by shedding their blood.  This is the drink-offering which these
sons of pride delight to pour out to their revenge.  Or, curse them to the pit of hell with their God damn them
oaths!  O tremble at such a spirit
as this!  The ready way to fetch a
curse from heaven on thyself, is to imprecate one sinfully upon another.  ‘As he loved cursing, so let it come
unto him: as he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so let
it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones,’ Ps. 109:17, 18.  Moses, I suppose, has as noble a spirit
as any of these that style them such men of honour; yet, did he draw upon
Aaron, or fall a cursing of Miriam, when they had used him so unworthily?  I trow not, but bears all pa­tiently.  Nay, when God declares his displeasure
against Miriam for this affront put upon him, see how this holy man intercedes
for her with God, Num.
12. This is valour of the right make, to overcome evil with
good, and instead of seeking revenge on him that wrongs us, to get the mastery
of our own corruption so far as to desire his good the more.  Thus our Lord, when he was numbered
amongst transgressors, even then ‘made intercession for the transgressors,’ Isa. 53:12;
that is, those very men which used him so bloodily, while they were digging his
heart out of his body with their instruments of cruelty, then was he begging
the life of their souls with his fervent prayers.

           2.
When thou prayest against the enemies of God and his church, direct thy
prayers rather against their plots than person.  Thus the apostles, ‘And now, Lord, behold their
threatenings,’ Acts
4:29.  Not, ‘con­found
their persons,’ but, ‘behold their threatenings;’ and so they leave their case
with the Lord to right it for them. 
So David, ‘O Lord, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness,’
II Sam.
15:31. Indeed, did do more, he destroyed plot and plotter
also; and in this sense the saints may oft say with the prophet, ‘Thou hast
done terrible things we looked not for’—by pouring out his vengeance on the per­sons,
when they have only prayed against their wicked designs.

           3.
When praying against the persons of those that are open enemies to God and his
church, it is safest to pray indefinitely and in general: ‘Let them all
be confounded...that hate Zion,’ Ps. 129:5; because we know
not who of them are implacable, and who not, and therefore cannot pray
absolutely and per­emptorily against particular persons.  There may be an elect vessel for a time
in open hostility against God and his church, whom afterward God may conse­crate
to himself by converting grace, and so make him a holy vessel for the use of
his sanctuary.  We do, it is
confessed, find some in Scripture prayed against by name.  So Moses prayed against Korah and his
comp­lices, Num.
16:15; and Paul against Alexander the cop­persmith, ‘The Lord
reward him according to his works;’ but these and other in the Scripture had an
extraordinary spirit, and not to be patterns for us in this case.  Elias called for fire from heaven upon
the captains, but the disciples were soundly chid for a preposterous imitation
of this act, who had not his spirit, ‘Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are
of,’ Luke
9:55.  Pray thou
for vengeance against all the im­placable enemies of God, and leave him to
direct thy arrow to its mark. Ahab was hit, though the arrow was shot at a
venture by one that may be thought not of him.  Prayers are sorted in heaven before their answer
returns.  Some of those emperors
for whom the church in the primitive times prayed, yet proving implacable enemies
to God and his people, felt the weight of those imprecations, which in general
they put up against the adversaries of the truth.

           4.
In praying against the implacable enemies of God and his church, the glory
of God should be prin­cipally aimed at, and vengeance on them in order to that.  ‘Arise, O Lord, and let thine enemies
be scat­tered.’  As the sun, when
it hath dispelled the vapours that muffled it up from our sight, breaks out in
the glory of its beams; so God, by taking vengeance on his enemies, and
scattering them in their wicked imagina­tions with which they endeavoured to
obscure his glory in the world, doth display and make visible the splendour of
his attributes before his people’s eyes. The saddest consequence which attends
the pros­perity and success of God’s enemies in the world, is their pride and
blasphemy against God, his truth, and church.  Then they belch out their horrid blasphemies against heaven;
then they mock the poor saints, and pierce them with the sharp sword of their
mocking language, while they say unto them, ‘Where is now their God?’  But when God takes to himself power and
strength, and confounds these giants and sons of the earth, by tumbling
destruction upon their heads in the midst of their wicked enterprises; when he recoils
their own plots they have charged against his church upon themselves—making
them go off like a pistol in their pocket—to procure their own death and ruin;
now the reproach is taken off, and they have an answer given to their question,
‘Where is now your God?’  He is at
their throat, he is with his sword of vengeance vindicating his glorious name
upon them.  When Julian the
Apostate was slain—and con­fessed at whose hand he received his fatal blow, in
crying, vicisti Galilæ—thou hast conquered, O Gali­lean—then Libænius,
his scoffing sophister, had his question, ‘What is the carpenter’s son now a do­ing?’
—which a little before he had put to a Christian in scorn of his Saviour—thrown
in his teeth to the confusion of his face, and found the Christian’s
answer—that he was making a coffin for his master —prove truer than he was
aware of.  It cannot but be a
joyful day to a saint, that prizeth the honour of his God above his own life,
when he sees even the wicked —that before denied a providence, and thought all
events were thrown out of blind fortune’s lap, as if the world were but a
lottery, wherein everyone had his portion by chance—now forced by the
remarkable appearance of his power and wisdom in saving his people, and
destroying his implacable enemies, to confess, ‘Verily there is a reward for
the righteous: verily he is a God that judgeth in the earth,’ Ps. 58:11.  The exaltation of the glorious name of
God, every saint doth, and should, aim at, in the prayers wherein he imprecates
vengeance.  ‘Let them be confound­ed...let
them be put to shame, and perish, that men may know that thou, whose name alone
is Jehovah, art the most high over all the earth,’ Ps. 83:17, 18.  Now from this head of imprecatory
prayer, there is—

           (1.)
Matter of comfort to the saints against those direful imprecations which the
wicked world belcheth out against them.  The saints in this sense are a cursed people.  The wicked make the greatest part of
the world; the church is a little flock, but her enemies a huge herd; and these
cannot wish well to the saints. 
Cain, as Luther saith, will hate and kill Abel to the end of the world;
the same spirit that was in him remaineth in his seed.  Sometimes when the church of God
flourisheth, and hath the sun of outward pros­perity on her side, they may cry
hosanna in the crowd—as Shimei, when David was going up the hill of honour,
then he could worship the rising sun, and crouch to him whom he had bitterly
cursed in his distress—but when ‘they bless with their mouth, but they curse
inwardly’ in their heart, Ps.
62:4.  A wicked
man cannot wish well to a saint as a saint, as, on the contrary, a saint cannot
bless the wicked as such.  ‘Neither
do they which go by say, The blessing of the Lord be upon you: we bless you in
the name of the Lord,’ Ps.
129:8.  They do,
indeed, desire their conver­sion, and therein wish them well, but in the wicked
way they are in at present they cannot bless them.  So the wicked can desire the saints should come over to
their party, do as they do, and then they would ap­plaud and hug them.  But, let the saints keep close to God,
and refuse to run into riot and excess with them, and they are sure to meet
with their curse and imprecation; it is not their unblamable and peaceable will
free them from their wrath and fury. 
‘I have neither lent on usury, nor men have lent to me on usury; yet
every one of them doth curse me,’ Jer. 15:10. But fear not,
thou who art a saint, their imprecations. This is but anathema secundum dici;
like false fire in the pan of an uncharged gun, it gives a crack but hurts
not.  God’s blessing will cover
thee from their curse; ‘Let them curse, but bless thou,’ Ps. 109:28.  When the viper flew out of the fire
upon Paul’s hand, the bar­barians looked that he should presently drop down
dead, but it proved no such matter. 
Thus the ene­mies of God and his people have looked one genera­tion
after another, when the church, that hath been always laden with their curses,
should perish under them; but it lives yet to walk over the graves of all those
that have wished it ill.  Alas,
poor wretches! what is your imprecation worth?  Truly as your bles­sing can do no good, so neither your
curse any hurt, till you can get God to set his seal and say amen to it; which
is impossible for you to obtain.

           Did
our Saviour so sharply rebuke the rash request of his disciples, calling for
fire to fall on them whom they thought deserved it? and will he gratify the
lust of your devilish wrath and fury against his own dear people, by pouring on
them what you auda­ciously, yea blasphemously, desire of him?  Will nothing serve you but to have God
your executioner to hang whom you condemn? and those no other than his dear
children, and for nought else but because they dare not be as wicked as
yourselves?  Go bid the tender
mother imbrue her hands in the blood of her sweet babe, that even now came out
of her womb, and now lies at her breast; or the husband betray and deliver the
wife of his bosom into the hands of murderers that wait for her life.  Would these be an errand to make the
messenger that brings them welcome to loving mother or husband?  But if any such anomalies in nature’s
grammar and monsters among men were to be found, yet remember he is a God thou
solicitest whose nature is unchange­able and covenant with his people inviolable.  How was God courted by Balak and Balaam
with altar after altar, from place to place!  But all to no purpose: ‘Nevertheless the Lord thy God would
not hearken unto Balaam; but the Lord thy God turned the curse into a blessing
unto thee, because the Lord thy God loved thee,’ Deut. 23:5.  Never was any design carried on with
more zeal and passionate desire to effect it than this; one would think that
God had said enough to Balaam at first to make him sick of his enterprise, as a
thing infeasible, Num.
22:12: ‘Thou shalt not go with them; thou shalt not curse the
people: for they are blessed.’  But
the liked the work and loved the wages, and therefore baffles his conscience,
not telling the messengers all that God said to him, and they also report not all
to Balak what Balaam said to them, so loath were both the work should fall: yet
we see by the event, that they took but pains to lose their labour, nay worse,
to lose themselves, for God made them, and him that set them on this work, to
drink the curse which they would so fain have brewed for Israel.

           (2.)
A word to the wicked.  Take
heed that by your implacable hatred to the truth and church of God, yo do not
engage her prayers against you. 
These imprecatory prayers of the saints, when shot at the right mark,
and duly put up, they are murdering pieces, and strike dead where they
light.  ‘Shall not God avenge his
own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them?  I tell you that he will avenge them
speedily,’ Luke
18:7, 8. 
They are not empty words—as the imprecations of the wicked poured into
the air, and there vanish with their breath—but are received into heaven, and
shall be sent back with thunder and lightning upon the pates of the wicked.  David’s prayer unravelled Ahithophel's
fine-spun policy, and twisted his halter for him.  The prayers of the saints are more to be feared—as once a
great person said and felt—than an army of twenty thousand men in the field.  Esther’s fast hastened Haman's ruin,
and Hezekiah’s against Sennacherib brought his huge host to the slaughter, and
fetched an angel from heaven to do the execution in one night upon them.

 

[Thanksgiving, or the gratulatory part of prayer.]

 

           Second. The second of the twofold
division of the whole matter of prayer, viz. thanksgiving.  In handling of this I shall still keep
my former method.

First.
I shall show what we are to return praises and thanks to God for.  Second. How we are to frame our
thanksgiving we return.

 

[What we are to
praise and thank God for.]

 

           First.  I shall show what we are to return
praises and thanks to God for. 
Now the object of thanksgiv­ing, as of requests, is something that is
good, but un­der another notion. We ask what we want; we bless and praise God
for the mercies we have received, or for the hope we have from the promise that
we shall in due time receive them. 
So that we see the Chris­tian hath as large a field for the exercise of
his thank­fulness in praising God, as he hath in the petitionary part of prayer
for his desires.  This duty
circumscribes heaven and earth; it takes both worlds within its
circumference.  As God does nothing
but he aims at his own glory thereby, Prov. 16:4; so no act of God
to­wards his people, wherein he intends not their good, and as such becomes the
subject of their thanksgiving. Hence we are bid ‘in everything give
thanks.’  O what a copious theme
hath God given his people to enlarge their meditations upon—‘in
everything!’  The whole course and
series of divine providence towards the saints is like a music‑book, in every
leaf whereof there is a song ready pricked for them to learn and sing to the
praise of their God.  No passage in
their life of which they can say, ‘In this I received no mercy for which I
should bless God.’  Now, as a
partial obedi­ence is not good, so partial thanks is stark naught. Not that any
saint is able to keep all the commands, or reckon up all the mercies of God,
much less return particular and express acknowledgement for every single
mercy.  But, as he hath respect to
all the commandments, Ps.
119:6, so he desires to value highly every mercy, and to his
utmost power give God the praise of all his mercies.  ‘What shall I render unto the Lord for all his benefits
toward me?’ Ps.
116:12. This is an honest soul indeed; he would not
sink any debt he owes to God, but calls his soul to an account for all his
benefits, not this or that.  The
skipping over one note in a lesson may spoil the grace of the music;
unthankfulness for one mercy disparageth our thanks for the rest.  But to sort the mercies of God into
several ranks, that you may see more distinctly your work in this duty lie
before you.

           1.
Mercies are either ordinary or extraordinary —our everyday commons or
exceedings, with which God now and then feasts us.  Thou must not only praise God for some extraordinary mercy
which once in a year betides thee—a mercy that comes with such pomp and
observation, that all thy neighbours take notice of it with thee, as the mercy
which Zacharias and Elizabeth had in their son, that was ‘noised abroad
throughout all the hill country,’ Luke 1:65—but also for
ordinary, everyday mercies.  For,

           (1.)
We are unworthy of the least mercy, Gen. 32:10; and therefore God
is worthy of praise for the least, because it is more than he owes us.

           (2.)
These common ordinary mercies are many. Thus David enhanceth the mercies
of this kind: ‘O God! how great is the sum of them? if I should count them,
they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee,’ Ps. 139:17, 18.  As if he had said, There is not a point
of time wherein thou art not doing me good; as soon as I open my eyes in the
morning, I have a new theme, in some fresh mer­cies given in since I closed
them overnight, to employ my praiseful meditations.  Many little items make together a great sum.  What less than a grain of sand? yet
what heavier than the sand on the sea-shore?  As little sins—such as are vain thoughts and idle words
—because of their multitude, arise to a great guilt and will bring in a long
bill, a heavy reckoning, at last; so ordinary mercies,what they want in their
size, particu­larly and individually considered, of some other great mercies,
they have it compensated in their number. Who will not say that a man shows as
great, yea greater, kindness to maintain one at his table with ordinary fare
all the year, as in entertaining him at a great feast twice or thrice in the
same time?

           (3.)
The sincerity of the heart is seen more in thankfulness for ordinary mercies
than extraordinary. As it shows a naughty heart upon every ordinary occa­sion
to fall into sin, so the soul very gracious that takes the hint of every common
mercy to bless his God.  Some, they
are bound up in their spirits, that none but strong physic will work upon them;
they can digest little afflictions, and swallow ordinary mercies, without
humbling themselves under the one or prais­ing God for the other.  That is the upright heart which gentle
physic prevails with, little chastisements humble, and ordinary mercies raise to
thankfulness.

           2.
Mercies are complete or imperfect—begun mercies, or finished.  We must not make God stay for our
praises till he hath finished a mercy, but praise him at the beginning of a
mercy.  We should be as ready to
return our praises for a mercy, as God is to hear our prayers when begging a
mercy.  Now God comes forth early
to meet a praying soul: ‘At the beginning of thy supplications the commandment
came forth,’ Dan.
9:23.  ‘I said, I
will confess my trans­gressions unto the Lord; and thou forgavest,’ Ps. 32:5.
Thus should we echo in our thankfulness to the first intimation that God gives
in his providence of an approaching mercy.  If you do but hear the king is on the road toward your town,
you raise your bells to ring him in, and stay not till he be entered {through}
the gates.

           The
birds, they rise betimes in the morning, and are saluting the rising sun with
their sweet notes in the air.  Thus
should we strike up our harps in praising God at the first appearance of a
mercy. Notable instances we have for this: Moses did not promise God, when he
had saved them from Phar­aoh’s wrath and the sea’s waves, that, at his landing
them safe in Canaan, and lodging his victorious colours at the end of their
journey in their full rest, he would then praise him for all his mercies
together. No, but he presently pens a song, and on the bank, within sight of
the howling wilderness, which they were now to enter into, he sings it with
Israel in thankfulness for this first handsel after their march out of Egypt.  So, II Sam. 6:13, ‘And it
was so, that when they that bare the ark of the Lord had gone six paces, he
sacrificed oxen and fatlings.’ 
And, I
Chr. 15:26, which is a place parallel to this, and
speaks of the same passage, ‘When God helped the Levites that bare the
ark,...they offered seven bullocks and seven rams.’  That is, so soon as, by going a few paces or steps, they
perceived God graciously to favour their enterprise—making no breach as
formerly he had done upon them—they presently express their thank­fulness upon
the place for this hopeful beginning, well knowing no way was better to engage
God in the continuance and enlargement of this mercy, than by a praiseful
entertainment thereof at its first approach.

           In
a word, thus the Jews in Babylon at the very first peep of day, when their
deliverance began to break out, are at their praises: ‘Then was our mouth
filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing: then said they among the
heathen, The Lord hath done great things for them,’ Ps. 126:2.  It was now but com­ing tide, as I may
say, with them; the water was newly turned, and their affairs began to look
with a more smiling face, yet now they salute their infant mercy with joy and
thankfulness.  May be, Christian,
thou art upon a sick‑bed, and some little reviving thou hast, though far from
thy former health—O bless God for this little lift of thy head from thy
pillow.  May be thou hast been, as
to thy spiritual state, in great dis­tress—as it were in the belly of
hell—swallowed up with terrors from the Lord, but now thy agony abates; though
the Comforter be not come, yet thou hast some strictures of divine light let
into thy dungeon, that raise a little hope to wait for more: O, let not this
handsel of mercy pass without some thankful ac­knowledgment.  Some, alas! are like great ships that
cannot be set afloat but with the spring-tide and high­water of a mercy
completed; if they have not all they would, they cannot see what they have, nor
tune their hearts into a praiseful frame.

           3.
Mercies are such as are received in this life or reserved for the next—mercies
in the hand or mercies in hope. 
There are promises which God will have us stay till we come to heaven
for the performance of, and these we are to praise God for, as well as what we
receive here; bless God for what he hath laid up for thee in heaven, as well as
that he lays out upon thee on earth. 
The more our hearts are enlarged in thank­fulness for these mercies,
which we now have only in hope, the more honour we put upon his faithful
promise.  He that bestows much cost
upon a house he hath in reversion, shows his confidence is great one day to be
possessed of it.  When a bill of
exchange is paid at sight, it shows the merchant whose it is to be a man of
credit and ability.  By the joy
thou takest up, and the thankfulness thou layest out for what the bare promise
tells thee thou shalt at death receive, thou glorifiest the truth of God that
is the promiser.

           4.
There are bitter mercies and sweet mercies —some mercies God gives in
wine, some in worm­wood.  Now we
must praise God for the bitter mercies as well as the sweet.  Thus Job, ‘The Lord gave, and the Lord
hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord.’  Too many are prone to think nothing is a mercy that is not
sweet in the going down, and leaves not a pleasant farewell on their palate;
but this is the childishness of our spirits, which, as grace grows more manly,
and the Christian more judicious, will wear off.  Who that understands himself will value a book by the gilt
on the cover?  Truly none of our
temporals—whether crosses or enjoyments—consid­ered in themselves abstractly,
are either a curse or a mercy. 
They are only as the covering to the book.  It is what is written in them that they must resolve us whether
they be a mercy or not.  Is it an
affliction that lies on thee?  If
thou canst find it comes from love, and ends in grace and holiness, it is a
mercy though it be bitter to thy taste. 
Is it an enjoyment?  If love
doth not send it, and grace end it—which appears when thou growest worse by
it—it is a curse, though sweet to thy sense.  There are sweet poisons as well as bitter cordials.  The saints commonly have greater
advantage from their afflictions in the world, than enjoyments of the
world.  Their eyes are oftener en­lightened
with wormwood than honey—those dis­pen­sations that are bitter and unpleasing
to sense, than those that are sweet and luscious.

           5.
Mercies are either personal, or such as we re­ceive in partnership with
others—and these must be recognized as well as the other.  ‘Pardon, O God,’ said he, ‘my other
men’s sins.’  Thus, ‘Blessed be
God,’ say thou, ‘for my other men’s mercies.’  Haply, Christian, thou hast prayed for a sick friend, and he
is restored to health: for another in distress of spirit, and the Comforter at
last is come to him.  Now thou who
hadst an adventure in his bottom, hast a mercy also in the return that is made
to him, and therefore art to bless God with him.  He that prays for his friend, and joins not with him in
thankfulness when the mercy is given, is like one that is a means to bring his
friend into debt, but takes no care to help him out.  Thy friend, Christian, needs thy aid much more to pay the
thanks, than to borrow the mercy, because this is the harder work of the
two.  But above all mercies to
others, be sure church mercies and nation mercies be not forgot.

 

[Ten directions how to frame our
thanksgivings.]

 

           Second.
You have heard what is the subject of our praises and thanksgivings; we shall
now lay down some directions how we are to frame our thanks­givings.

           1.
Direction.  Be sure the
thing thou prayest God for be found among the good things of the prom­ise.  That is the compass by which we are to
steer our course, as in the petitionary, so also in the gratula­tory, part of
prayer.  If it be not in the
promise it is not a mercy, and so not the subject of thanksgiving. When some
prosper in their wickedness, they are so bold as to thank God they sped so
well.  Now, if it be grievous sin
for a man to bless himself in any wicked way, Deut. 29:19,
much more horrid is it to bless God for prospering therein.  By the former, he only vouch­eth his
own sin—which indeed is bad enough—but by the other he makes God a party with
him, and tempts the Lord to own it also. 
It is a good speech of Ber­nard to this purpose, who, comparing those
that on the one hand thank God for their success in wicked­ness, with
hypocrites, who praise him for the good things they receive, saith, isti
impiè mala suo Deo, isti dei bona fraudulenter in­torquent sibi (Serm. 45 super
Cant.)—the one impute their sin to God, the other
ascribe the glory of his mercies to themselves.  God cannot accept thy praise, unless he first approve thy
fact.  He that receives a bribe is
guilty of the fault. And dare you thus tempt the holy One?  If the God you serve were like the
heathens’ idols, the matter were not much.  When the Philistines had practiced their cruelty on Samson,
they present his head to their god. 
The devil desires no better sacrifices than the fruit of men’s
sins.  But the holy One of Israel
abhors all wicked praises.  ‘The
hire of a whore, was not to be offered,’ Deut. 23:18.

           2.
Direction.  Let all your
praises be offered up in Christ. 
‘By him...let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God,’ Heb. 13:15.  ‘Ye...are...an holy priesthood, to
offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ,’ I Peter 2:5.  Couldst thou pen never so rare a
panegyric[9],
couldst thou flourish it with never so much art or rhetoric, and deliver it
with the great­est passion and zeal possible, all this would be harsh and grate
the Almighty’s ear except sounded through Christ.  It is not the breath poured into the open air but passing
through the trumpet or some other instru­ment—where it is formed into a tunable
sound—that makes it pleasing music. 
Possibly when thou prayest for a mercy thou shelterest thyself under Christ’s
wing, and usest his name to procure thy admission —because conscious of thine
own unworthiness to re­ceive what thou askest—but, when thou praisest God, thy
errand being not to beg and receive but to give, thou expectest welcome.  He that brings a present shall surely
find the door open.  Yes, if thy
gift were suitable to the great God. 
But who art thou that the great God should take a present at thy hand?  If thou beest not worthy of the least
mercy thou beggest, then surely thou art unworthy of this honour to have thy
thank-offering accepted.  Thou
needest Christ’s me­diation for the one as much as for the other.

           3.
Direction.  Stay not in
generals, but descend to the particular instances of God’s mercy towards
thee in thy thanksgivings.  Est
dolus in generalibus —there is guile in generals.  It bewrays a slighty spirit, if not a false, when in
confession of sin we content ourselves with a general indictment, ‘I am a
sinner—a great sinner,’ and there to stop, without a particular sense of the
several breaches made in the law of God. Neither is here a better symptom when
a man puts God off with a compliment at distance for his good­ness and mercy in
general, but takes no notice of the particular items which swell and make up
the total sum.  Now, to be able to
do this, it will be necessary that thou takest special notice of God’s daily
provi­dence to thee and thine, yea, and to the church of Christ also.  Lay up these in thy heart, as Mary did
our Saviour’s words, for the matter of thanksgiving against the time of prayer;
this true good husbandry for thy soul. 
You do not expect to find that money in your chest which you never laid
up there; neither will you readily find in your heart to praise God for those mercies
which you never committed to your memory. It is to be feared the man means not
to pay that debt honestly which he doth not set down in his book.  Ps. 107, when the psalmist there had
stirred them up to thankfulness for the mer­cies of God in creation and
providence, his conclusion is worthy of remark, ‘Whoso is wise, and will
observe these things, even they shall understand the lovingkindness of the
Lord,’ ver.
43.  As if he
had said, The reason why so little praise is given for such great works of
mercy, is because men see not the lovingkindness of God in them; and they see
not this because they observe not those; and they observe not those because
they have not wisdom.  It is not a
library that makes a scholar, but wisdom to observe and gather the choice
notions out of his books.  None
want mercies to bless God for. 
Divine providence is a large volume, written thick and close with
mercies from one end of our life to the other; but few, alas! have a heart to
read in it, and fewer have wisdom to collect the choice passages of it for such
a holy purpose as this is.

           4.
Direction.  Excite thy
praising graces.  David stirs
up all that is within him to praise God, Ps. 103; that is, all the
powers and graces of his soul.  To
instance but in two or three.

           (1.)
Humility.  A proud man
cannot well tell how to beg, yet selfishness may make him stoop to it; but in
thankfulness he must needs be a bungler, for this is a high piece of
self-denial. ‘Not unto us, Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name be the
praise.’  The proud man’s gift will
cleave to his hand; he is unfit to set the crown on God’s head that hath a mind
to wear it himself.  We find indeed
the tool in the Pharisee’s hand, but he cuts his work into chips.  He seems to honour God with his mouth,
but eats his words as he speaks them, and discovers plainly that he intends
more to exalt himself than God: ‘I thank God I am not as this publican.’  This, ‘I thank God,’ comes in pro
formâ; it is the publican he dis­dains, and himself that he applauds.  You may easily think what a look
ambitious Haman gave Mordecai when he held his stirrup, who desired himself to
have been in the saddle.  How,
alas! can a proud heart give God that which he covets himself?  No man, saith Luther, can pray sanctificetur
nomen tuum till he first be able to pray profanetur nomen meum—sanctified
be thy name, till he be willing his own name should be debased.

           Labour
therefore to vilify, nullify thyself; then, and not till then, thou wilt
magnify, omnify thy God.  None so
zealous in begging as he that is most pinched with his want; none so hearty in
his thanks as he that hath most sense of his unworthiness.  And who can think better of himself
that is thoroughly acquainted with himself?  If God had not set thee up, what stock couldst thou have
found of thy own?  Thou wert as
bare as a shorn sheep, naked camest thou into the world, and ever since thou
hast been cast upon thy God, even as a poor child upon the charge of the
parish.  What hast thou earned by
all the service thou hast done him? 
Not the bread of thy poorest meal. And art thou yet proud?  Bernard compares Joseph’s carriage with
his master and the grateful soul’s with God thus together: Joseph, saith the
father, knew that his master, who put all he had into his hands, yet excepted
his wife, and therefore accounted it too base an ingratitude to take her from
his master’s bed who had been so kind to him in his house.  Thus, saith he, God freely gives his
mercies into the saint's hands but excepts his glory.  Therefore the gracious soul takes what God gives thankfully;
but leaves the praise of them, which God reserves for himself humbly.

           (2.)
Love and joy.  Amour et gaudium
faciunt musicum—love and joy, it is said, make a musician. Indeed then this
music of praise is best—in heaven, I mean—where the graces are perfect.

           (a)
Excite thy love.  This is an
affection that cannot keep within door, but must be sallying forth in the
praises of God. Austin, speaking of heaven, breaks out thus, ibi vacabimus
et videbimus, vide­bimus et amabimus, amabimus et laudabimus, lauda­bimus et
cantabimus—in heaven we shall have noth­ing to do but to behold the face of
God, and seeing him we shall love him, loving him we shall praise him, and
praising we shall sing and rejoice. 
Love and thankfulness are like the symbolical qualities of the
elements—easily resolved into each other. 
David begins with ‘I love the Lord, because he hath heard my voice,’ Ps. 116:1.  And, to enkindle this grace into a
greater flame, he aggravates the mercies of God in some following verses; which
done, then he is in the right cue for praises, and strikes up his instrument,
‘What shall I render unto the Lord for all his benefits?’ Ps. 116:12.  The spouse, when once she was
thoroughly awake, pondering with herself what a friend had been at her door,
and how his sweet company was lost through her unkindness, shakes off her
sloth, riseth, and away she goes after him.  Now, when with running after her beloved she had put her
soul into a heat of love, then she breaks out into an encomium of her beloved,
praising him from top to toe, Song 5:10.  That is the acceptable praising which comes from a warm
heart; and he that would warm his heart must use some holy exercise to stir up
his habit of love, which, like natural heat in the body, is preserved and
increased by motion.

           (b)
Excite thy joy.  I will sing
‘with joyful lips,’ Ps.
63:5.  A sad
heart and a thankful hardly can dwell to­gether—I mean, sad with worldly
sorrow.  The disci­ples for sorrow
could not hold open their eyes to pray, much more sure were they unfit to praise.  This indeed makes the duty of praise
and thanksgiving more difficult than to pray, because our joy here is so often
quenched and interrupted with intervening sins and sorrows that this heavenly
fore seldom burns long clear on the Christian’s altar from which his praises
should ascend.  Temptations and
afflictions, they both drive the soul to prayer and more dispose it for prayer;
but they untune his instrument for praise. Hannah, she wept and prayed, but
durst not eat of the peace-offering, the sacrifice of praise, because she
wept.  It behoves us therefore the
more to watch our hearts lest they be indisposed by any affliction for this
duty.  Do with thy soul as the
musician in wet weather doth with his instrument, which he hangs not in a moist
nasty room, but where it may have the air of the fire.  Art thou under affliction? let not thy
soul pore too long on those thy troubles, but bring it within the scent of
God's mercies that are intermingled with them.  Sit near this fire of God’s love in Christ —warm thy heart
with meditation on spiritual prom­ises—while thou art under bodily pressures,
and thou shalt find, through God’s blessing thy heart in some comfortable tune
to praise God in the saddest and most rainy day that can befall thee in all thy
life.  Thus David could make music
in the cave: ‘My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give
praise,’ Ps.
57:7.

           5.
Direction. Content not thyself with a bare narrative, but give every
mercy its proper accent ac­cording to the enhancing circumstances thereof.
There is great difference in two that sing the same song.  From one you have only the plain song;
the other descants and runs division upon it, in which consists the grace of
music.  The mercies of God af­fect
our hearts as they are dressed forth. 
If we put on them their rich habiliments—the circumstances, I mean, that
advance them, they appear glorious to our eyes and enlarge our hearts in
praises for them; but considered without these, we pass them slightly.  God himself, when he would express the
height of his love to his people, presents them to his own eye, not as now they
are, but as clothed with the glory he intends them.  ‘As the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, so shall thy God
rejoice over thee,’ Isa.
62:5.  At the wed­ding
day the best clothes are put on. 
Thus do thou, to draw out thy thankfulness for mercies, consider them in
the circumstances that may render them most glorious in thine eye.  Some emperors have not suffered every
one to draw their picture, lest they should be disfigured by their bungling
pencil.  Truly, slighty praises
disfigure the lovely face of God’s mercy. 
They are but few that draw them to life.  To do this much study and meditation are requisite. ‘The
works of the Lord are sought out of them that have pleasure in them.’  The curious limner studies the face of
the man before he makes his draught. 
Praise is a work not done in a trice, the lesson must be pricked before
it can be sung.  Read therefore the
word, and learn from the saints there recorded what aggravating circumstances
they have observed in recognizing their mercies.

           Sometimes
we have them setting the accent upon the speedy return of their prayers, ‘In
the day when I cried thou answeredst me,’ Ps. 138:3.  This is a print that superadds a
further excellency to the mer­cy. 
It was but knock, and have; come, and be served. While the church were
at God’s door praying for Peter’s deliverance, Peter is knocking at theirs to
tell them their prayer is heard.

           Sometimes
from the sinful infirmities which mingled with their prayers.  Now that mercy would come with a
‘notwithstanding these,’ and steal upon them when they had hardly faith to wait
for them, this hath exceedingly endeared the goodness of God to them.  ‘I said in my haste, All men are liars.  What shall I render unto the Lord for
all his benefits?’ Ps.
116:11, 12.

           Sometimes
from the greatness of their strait: ‘This poor man cried, and the Lord heard
him, and saved him out of all his troubles.’  ‘O taste and see that the Lord is good,’ Ps. 34:6, 8.  So, ‘Who remem­bered us in our low
estate: for his mercy endureth for ever,’ Ps. 136:23.  Indeed this must needs raise high ap­preciating
thoughts of the mercy.  The water
that God gave Israel out of the rock is called honey, because it came in their
extreme want, and so was as sweet to them as honey.  Silver is gold when given to a poor man that must else have
died for lack of bread.

           Sometimes
from the frequent returns of God’s goodness and expressions of his care; thy
mercies ‘are new every morning,’ Lam. 3:23.  ‘Many a time have they afflicted me
from my youth: yet they have not prevailed,’ Ps. 129:2.  ‘Hitherto hath the Lord helped us,’ I Sam. 7:12.  This gives such an accent as, without
it, the mercy cannot be pronounced with its due em­phasis.  A course of sin is worse than an act of
sin. ‘Their course is evil,’ Jer. 23:10.  So a course of mercy from time to time
speaks more love.  Some that could
beteem[10]
a single alms on a beggar, would beat him from their door should he lie there
and make it a trade.

           Sometimes
from the peculiarity of the mercy, they take notice of the distinction God
makes in issu­ing out his favours: ‘He hath not dealt so with any na­tion: and
as for his judgments, they have not known them.  Praise ye the Lord,’ Ps. 147:20.  ‘Lord, how is it that thou wilt
manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world?’ John 14:22—Let
these few hints suffice to set thee on work to find out the other.  Without this, we rob God of the best
part of our sacrifice; as if a Jew had stripped off the fat and laid the lean
on God’s altar; or, as he did by his idol, who took off the cloak of silver it
had and put on his own threadbare one in the room of it.  The mercies thou receivest are great
and rich; give not him thy beggarly praises.  He ex­pects they should bear some proportion to his mercy:
‘Praise him for his mighty acts: praise him according to his excellent
greatness,’ Ps.
150:2.

           6.
Direction.  Distinguish
between mercy and mercy; let the choicest mercies have thy highest praises.  It shows a naughty heart to howl and
make a great noise in prayer for corn and wine, and in the meantime to be
indifferent or faint in his desires for Christ and his grace.  Nor better is it, when one acknowledges
the goodness of God in temporals, but takes little notice of those greater
blessings which concern another life. 
You shall have sometimes a covetous earthworm speak what a blessed time
and season it is for the corn and the fruits of the earth —that fit his carnal
palate, as the pottage did Esau’s —but you never hear him express any feeling
sense of the blessed seasons of grace, the miracle of God’s patience that such
a wretch as he s out of hell so long, the infinite love of God in offering in
offering Christ by the gospel to him. 
He turns over these as a child doth a book, till he hits on some gaud
and picture, and there he stays to gaze. 
Christ and his grace, with other spiritual blessings, he skills not of,
he cares not for, except they would fill his bags and barns.  Now, shall such a one pass for a
thankful man? will God accept his praises for earth that rejects heaven? that
takes corn and wine with thanks, and bids him keep Christ to himself with scorn?
saying, as Esau when his brother offered him his present, ‘I have enough?’  A gracious heart is of another strain:
‘Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us
with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ,’ Eph. 1:3.  Indeed God gives tem­porals to make us
in love with spirituals, yea, with himself that gave them; as the suitor sends
the token to get the love of the person.

           Again,
as we are to distinguish between mercy and mercy, so even in these lower
mercies that con­cern this life, because thou layest the accent of thy
thankfulness on the spiritual part of them.  In every outward mercy there is food for the flesh and food
for the spirit; that which pleaseth the sense and that which may exercise our
grace.  Is it health?  The carnal heart is most taken with it,
as it brings the joy of his natural life to him, which sickness deprived him
of; but that which, above all, pleaseth a saint, is the opportunity that comes
with it for his glorifying God in his place and generation: ‘I shall yet praise
him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God,’ Ps. 42:11.  Is it an estate that God casts in?  The carnal wretch values it for his
private accommodation, as if it were given for no higher end than to spend it
upon himself, or enrich his family; but the gracious soul blesseth God that
gives him to give to the neces­sity of others, and counts a large heart to be a
greater mercy than a full purse. 
David did not bless himself in his abundance, but blessed God that gave
him a heart to return it again into the bosom of God, from whom he received it:
‘But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to offer so
willingly after this sort?’ I Chr. 29:14.

           7.
Direction.  Let not thy
praises be transient—a fit of music, and then the instrument hung by the
wall, till another gaudy day of some remarkable provi­dence makes thee take it
down.  God will not sit at such a
niggard’s table, who invites him to a thanksgiv­ing feast once for all the
year.  God comes not guest­wise to
his saints’ house, but to dwell with them; he ‘inhabits the praises of Israel,’
Ps. 22:3.  That day thou blessest not God thou
turnest him out of doors. David took this up for a life-work, ‘As long as I
live I will praise thee.’  'A lying
tongue is but for a moment,’ saith Solomon, Prov. 12:19.  Something drops from a liar within a
while that discovers his falsehood; the tongue that lies in praising of God is
thus for a moment.  He can curse
God with that tongue to‑morrow with which he praiseth him to‑day.

           8.
Direction.  Thou must not
only continue, but grow in thy praises.  As the tide increaseth the ship is lift higher on the
waters; as your crop increaseth your barns are enlarged; as you grow richer you
advance in your garb and port; in a word, as your bodies grow so you make your
clothes bigger.  Every day swells
the tide of your mercies, adds to your heap, increases your treasure, and
heightens your stature.  They are
‘new,’ saith the prophet, ‘every morning,’ Lam. 3:23; they grow whether
thou sleepest or wakest.  Now, as
the coat thou didst wear when thou wert a child would not become thee now thou
art a man; so neither will the garment of praise, which thou didst clothe thy
soul with when a young convert, become thee now thou art an old disciple.  Thou standest deeper in God’s books
than before, and God expects according to what every man hath received.  Your­selves are not so bad husbands,
but you would im­prove your estates to the height.  Would you let a farm now by the rate it bare forty or fifty
years ago? why then may not God raise the rent of his mercies also?  Look back, Christian, and see how well
the world is mended with thee since thou didst first set up.  May be thou canst say with Jacob, ‘I
passed over with my staff, and behold now I am become two bands.’

           Well,
see what thou hast more, in health, estate, in gifts, graces, or comforts, than
thou hadst formerly, and then compare thy present thankfulness with what it was
before these additions were made to thy stock and treasure.  Would it not be a shame to thee if it
should be found not to have grown as the goodness of God to thee hath done,
much more if it hath shrunk and grown less?  And yet how common are such in­stances of ingratitude?  The freer God is with his mercy, the
more close and gripple they are in their thankful returns.  When poor, they could be thankful for a
short meal of coarse fare, more than they are now for their varieties and
dainties.  When sick, a few broken
sleeps that amounted to an hour or two rest in a night, O how affected were
their hearts for this mercy! 
Whereas now they can rise and take little notice of the goodness of God,
that gives them their full rest night after night without interruption.  Thus as the days lengthen, so the cold
strengthens.  But is it not strange
to see a man grow colder in his love to God, as the sun of God's mercy riseth
higher and shines hotter upon him? 
O it is sad to see the heap increase, and the heart waste; to find a man
grow richer in mercy, and poorer in thankfulness.

           9.
Direction.  Let thy praises be
real.  Words, we say, pay no
debts.  There goes more to
thankfulness than a mouthful of windy praises, which pass away with the sound
they make.  A gracious heart is too
wise to think God will be put off with a song.  He will give God that, but it is the least he intends.  ‘The Lord is my strength and
song,...and I will prepare him an habitation,’ Ex. 15:2.  Aye, here it sticks, build­ing is
chargeable; thankfulness is a costly work.  Shall I offer to God that which cost me nothing? saith David
to Araunah.  Cheap praises are
easily obtained, but when it comes to charges, then many grow sick of the
work.  The Jews could sing a ‘song’
when delivered from Babylon, Ps. 137; but it was long before they could
find in their hearts to build God ‘a habitation.’ The time was not come for
that.  They might have said, their
heart was not come.  They had money
and time enough to build their own nests, but none for God, though herein they
played the fools egregiously, for as fast as they built at one end, God pulled
down at the other.  Some have been
of their mind in our times; instead of finding God a habitation and loving our
nation to build synagogues, they have pulled them down and carried the beams to
their own houses.  Excellent
artists, in taking down ministers, ministry, and their maintenance, whereby the
gospel should be upheld! If this be the way to thrive, God gave his people ill
counsel when he said, Consider now from this day I will bless you, Hag. 2:18.  But you will ask what I mean by real
praises?

 

[What is meant by real praises.]

 

           (1.)
Our praises are real when they are cordial —‘All that is within me,
bless his holy name,’ Ps.
103:1—when his mercies beget amiable thoughts of God in our
hearts.  We read of ‘cursing God in
the heart,’ Ps.
106.1 {better:
Job 1:5}; which then is done when we have base, low,
unbecoming thoughts of his greatness and goodness.  And, on the contrary, when the mercies of God imprint such
an image in the heart of him as livelily represents these his attributes, then
thou blessest God in thy heart, by adoring his majesty, reverencing his
holiness, delighting in his love, and fearing his goodness.  Here is real thankful­ness.  What is laus—praise or honour,
but a reflec­tion of the person’s excellency we commend?  Now, as the glass represents the image
of the person that looks on it, so the thankful soul reflects those glor­ious
attributes again upon God which he puts forth in his mercies.  Thus God sees his face in a true glass,
which the thankful soul holds up while he praiseth him.  Whereas an unthankful heart, like a
broken glass, distorts and disfigures the beautiful face of God, by conceiving
such low thoughts of God as are un­worthy of his glorious attributes.

           (2.)
Our praises are real when they are obedien­tial.  God accounts those mercies forgotten
which are not written with legible characters in our lives, ‘They forgat God
their Saviour,’ Ps.
106:21. 
That of Joshua is observable, ch. 8:32.  Upon their victory over the city Ai, an
altar is built as a monument of that signal mercy.  Now mark, what doth God command to be written or engraved on
the stones thereof?  One would have
thought the history of that day’s work should have been the sculpture, but it
is ‘the copy of the law of Moses, which he wrote in the presence of the
children of Israel,’ ver.
32, whereby he plainly showed the best way of remembering
the mercy was not to forget to keep the law.  Saul could not blind Samuel’s eyes with his many good‑morrows,
that the people saved the best of the cattle for sacrifice: ‘Hath the Lord,’ saith
he, ‘as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the
voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heark­en
than the fat of rams,’ I
Sam. 15:22. 
As if he had said, ‘What, Saul! thinkest thou to bribe God with a
sacrifice, while thou art disobedient to his command?  Dost thou take the swan, and stick the feather in the room?
deny him thine own heart to obey his word, and give him a beast’s heart in
sacrifice for it?  Is this the
oblation which he hath required, or will accept?’ Truly God riseth hungry from
our thanksgiving-dinners, if obedience be not a dish at the table.  With­out this we and our sacrifices may
burn together. God will pluck such from the horns of the altar, and take them
off their knees with their hypocritical praises, to pay this debt in another
kind.  ‘If ye be willing and
obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land,’ Isa. 1:19. Then, and
not till then, will God eat of your sacri­fices, and yourselves taste the
sweetness of your en­joyments.  ‘He
meeteth him that rejoiceth and work­eth righteousness,’ Isa. 64:5.  Not either apart, but both together are
required; not rejoice without working righteousness, nor that without rejoicing
in the work. The threatening is levelled against Israel not barely because they
served not God, but because they served him not ‘with gladness in the abundance
of his mercies,’ Deut.
28.  God
delights to have his mercy seen in the cheerful countenance of his servants
while they are at his work, which may tell the spectators they serve a good
master.

           (3.)
Then they are real praises when they end in acts of mercy.  Very observable is that place, ‘By him
therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the
fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name,’ Heb. 13:15.  Now mark the very net words, ‘but to do
good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well
pleased.’  As if he had said, Think
not you may thank God to save charges, be willing to both or neither.  God’s goodness to us should make us
merciful to others.  It were
strange indeed a soul should come out of his tender bosom with a hard
uncharitable heart.  Some children
do not indeed take after their earthly parents; as Cicero’s son, that had
nothing of his father but his name. 
But God’s children partake all of their heav­enly Father’s nature.  Philosophy tells us that there is no
reaction from the earth to the heavens. 
They, in­deed, shed their influences upon the lower world, which quicken
and fructify it, but the earth returns none back to make the sun and stars
shine the better. David knew very well that ‘his goodness extended not unto
God,’ but this made him reach forth to his brethren, ‘to the saints that are in
the earth,’ Ps.
16:2, 3. 
Indeed, God hath left his poor saints to receive his rents we owe unto
him for his mercies.  An ingenuous
guest, though his friend will take nothing for his en­tertainment, yet to show
his thankfulness will give something to his servants.  At Christ’s return, how doth he salute his saints?  Not, ‘Come ye blessed,’ ye have kept
such a thanksgiving day, and filled the air with your songs of praise; but,
When ‘I was an hungered and ye gave me meat, naked and ye clothed me,’ Matt. 25.  Alms-deeds in Saint Paul’s language are
called fruit: ‘When therefore I have performed this, and have sealed to them
this fruit,’ Rom.
15:28; imply­ing that all our profession without these good
works are but leaves.  This is the
solid fruit of our faith —love to God and thankfulness for his mercies. Neither
must these acts of charity be restrained to the money in thy purse or bread in
thy cupboard, though these are included: there are poor souls as well as poor
bodies, that need relief.

           Hath
God plucked thee out of Sodom—out of Satan’s bondage?  Where are then thy bowels of compassion to those who are yet
chained to the devil’s post?  What
means dost thou use to redeem these captives out of their worse than Turkish
slav­ery?  The argument God urgeth
to Israel to use stran­gers kindly, is to remember they were once so, Deut. 23:7.  Hast thou, after long lying in the
dungeon of spiritual darkness and troubles of conscience, had thy head lift up
with the comforts of the Spirit—received into the presence of God, as Pharaoh’s
butler was to his prince’s court? how canst thou think thyself thankful, while
thou forgettest others that lie in the same prison-house, under as sad fears
and terrors as once thyself did? 
‘Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness: he is gracious,
and full of compas­sion, and righteous,’ Ps. 112:4.  Surely this will hold, if in any, then
in this case.  In a word—that I may
not be thought to make you hard to the outward man, while I stir up your
charity to the inward—hath God raised thee to an estate?  May be thy pilgrim’s staff, with
Jacob’s, is turned to two troops? 
Dost thou now show the kindness of God to his poor members? as David,
who inquired if there were none of the house of Saul.  O how unlike are we to the saints of primi­tive times!  They would run to meet an object for
their charity, and we run from them. 
They consid­ered the poor, what they wanted, how they might relieve
them, yea, they ‘devised liberal things;’ but we consider and contrive how we
may save our purse best.  They were
willing to part with all in case of extremity, while we grudge a little from
our superflu­ity; laying that, by pride, on our backs which should cover the
poor’s; throw that to our hawks and hounds which should refresh the bowels of
the poor; yea, spend more in our drunken meeting, a miser’s feast, or a
wrangling suit at law, than we can be willing to give in a year to the
necessitous members of Christ.

           (4.)
Our praises are real when they produce a stronger confidence on God for the
future.  Who will say that man
is thankful to his friend for a past kind­ness that nourishes an ill opinion of
him for the fu­ture, and dares not trust him when he needs him again?  This was all that ungrateful Israel
returned to God for his miraculous broaching the rock to quench their thirst,
‘Behold, he smote the rock, can he give bread also?’ Ps. 78:20.  This indeed was their trade all along
their wilderness march.  Wherefore
God gives them their character, not by what they seemed to be while his mercies
were piping hot, and the feast stood before them—then they could say, ‘God was
their Rock, and the high God their Redeemer’—but by their temper and carriage
in straits.  When the cloth was
drawn, and the feast taken out of their sight, what opinion had they then of
God?  Could they sanctify his name
so far as to trust him for their dinner to‑morrow who had feasted them
yesterday?  Truly no.  As soon as they feel their hunger
return, like froward children they are crying, as if God meant to starve them.  Wherefore God spits on the face of
their praises, and owns not their hypocritical acknowledg­ments, but sets their
ingratitude upon record, ‘They forgat his works, and waited not for his
counsel.’  O how sad is this, that
after God had entertained a soul many a time at his table with choice mercies
and deliverances, these should be so ill husbanded, that not a bit of them all
should be left to give faith a meal, thereby to keep the heart from fainting,
when God comes not so fast to deliver as we desire!  He is the most thankful man that ponders up the mercies of God
in his memory, and can feed his faith with the thoughts of what hath done for
him, so as to walk in the strength thereof in present straits.  When Job was on the dunghill, he forgot
not God’s old kindnesses, but durst trust him with a knife at his throat,
‘Though he slay me yet will I trust in him.’  He that distrusts God, after former experience, is like the
foolish builder, Matt.
7—he rears his monument for past mer­cies on the sand,
which the next tide of affliction washeth away.

           10.
Direction. Thou must not only praise God thyself while on the stage of
this earth, but endeavour to transmit the memorial of his goodness to
posterity. The psalmist, speaking of the mercies of God, saith, ‘We will
not hide them from their children, shewing to the generation to come the
praises of the Lord,’ Ps.
78:4.  Children
are their parents’ heirs, they enter upon their estates.  It were unnatural for a father, before
he dies, to bury up his treasure in the earth, where his children should not
find or enjoy it.  Now the mercies
of God are not the least part of his treasure, nor the least of his child’s
inheritance, being both helps to their faith, matter for their praise, and
spurs to their obedience: ‘Our fathers have told us, what work thou didst in
their days, in the times of old; how thou didst drive out the heathen,’
&c., Ps.
44:1-3. 
From this they ground their confidence, ‘Thou art my King, O God:
command deliverances for Jacob,’ ver. 4; and excite their
thankfulness, ‘In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name for ever,’
ver. 8.  Indeed, as children are their parents'
heirs, so they become in justice liable to pay their parents' debts.  Now, the great debt which the saint at
death stands charged with, is that which he owes to God for his mercies, and
therefore it is but reason he should tie his posterity to the payment
thereof.  Thus mayest thou be
praising God in heaven and earth at the same time.

 

 

 

USE
OR APPLICATION.

 

[Reproof to the
ungrateful world,

and exhortation to
saints.]

 

           We
shall wind up this head with a double application of reproof and exhortation.

           Use
First.  Of reproof to the
ungrateful world. How few, alas! can we find so ingenuous as to pay this
little quit-rent to the great Lord of this world’s manor for all the mercies
they hold of him!  Some are such
brutes that, like swine, their nose is nailed to the trough in which they
feed.  They have not the use of their
understanding so far as to lift up their eye to heaven and say, there dwells
that God that provides this for me, that God by whom I live, and from whom I
have my livelihood.  It were well
if we knew not in all our towns where such brutes as these dwell.  You would count it a sad spectacle to
behold a man in a lethargy, with his senses and reason so blasted by his
disease, that he knows not his nearest friends, and takes no notice of those
that tend him or bring his daily food to him.  How many such senseless wretches are at this day lying on
his hands?  Divine providence
ministers daily supplies to their necessities, but they take no notice of his
care and goodness.  Others there
are, that feloniously, yea sacrilegiously, set the crown of praise on their own
head which is due alone to God. 
Thus Nebuchadnezzar writes his own name up­on his palace, and leaves God
out of the story: ‘Is not this great Babylon, that I have built for the house
of the kingdom by the might of my power, and for the honour of my majesty?’ Dan. 4:30.  Proud wretch! was not every stone he
used in that pile cut out of God’s quarry? and for every skep of sand did he
not come upon God’s ground?  Thus
the atheistical husband­man cons his plough and dung‑cart more thanks than the
God of heaven, who ‘crowns the year with his goodness.’  The proud soldier stands upon his
sword, daring to take the honour of his victory to himself, and not ascribe it
to the Lord of hosts, who at his pleasure gives and takes away the heart from
the mighty.

           Yea,
some, rather than God shall have it, will give it to any other.  Thus Pope Adrian, in his blas­phemous
inscription on the gates of a college he built, abuseth God with Scripture
language, ‘Utrecht planted me, Lovian watered me, and Cæ­sar gave the
increase;’ which made one underwrite, nihil hic Deus fecit—it seems God
did nothing for this man.  Not that
I think it unlawful to acknowledge our benefactors, as instruments in God’s
hand for our good, but to blot out the name of God, our chief founder, to write
the name of an underling creature, is a high piece of wickedness and
ingratitude.  I like that form
which a good man used to his friend for a kindness: ‘I bless God for you, I
thank God and you.’ He that will exact more, requires what we owe him not.

           In
a word, some, the worst of the three, instead of returning thanks to God for
his mercies, abuse them to his dishonour. 
It is not more sad than true, that the goodness of God with many serves
but to feed and nourish their lusts. 
They eat and drink at God’s cost, and then rise up to play the rebels
against God; no weapons will serve them to use but the mer­cies he hath given
them.  It is too bad if the tenant
pays not his easy rent; but to make strip and waste of the trees on his
landlord’s ground, this is more intol­erable.  Yet such outrages are daily practised in the wicked world
with the mercies of God.

           Michael
Balbus is infamous for his horrid ingratitude, who, the same night that the
emperor had pardoned and released him, barbarously slew his saviour.  And do not many, whom God lets out of
the prison of affliction, lift up their traitorous knife at God, wounding his
name with their oaths, drunken­ness, and profaneness, as soon almost as the
sentence of death is taken off and their prison door set open? To conclude,
others that will needs pass for thankful, yet all the return is but windy
praise—honour him with their lips, and pour contempt upon him in their
lives.  What music more harsh and
unpleasing than to hear a harper sing to one tune with his voice and play
another with his hand?  O it grates
in God’s ears when Jacob’s voice is attended with Esau’s rough hands.  Truly, when I consider how the goodness
of God is abused and perverted by the greatest part of mankind, I cannot but be
of his mind that said maximum miraculum est Dei patientia et munifi­centia—the
greatest miracle in the world is God’s patience and bounty to an ungrateful
world.  If a prince hath an enemy
got into one of his towns, he doth not send them in provision, but lays close
siege to the place, and doth what he can to starve them. But the great God,
that could wink all his enemies into destruction, bears with them, and is at
daily cost to maintain them.  Well
may he command us to bless them that curse us, who himself ‘does good to the
evil and thankful.’  O what would
not God do for his crea­ture if thankful, that thus heaps the coals of his
mercies upon the heads of his enemies!

           But
think not, sinners, that you shall escape thus.  God's mill goes slow, but it grinds small; the more
admirable his patience and bounty now is, the more dreadful and unsupportable
will that fury be which ariseth out of his abused goodness.  Nothing blunter than iron, yet when
sharpened it hath an edge that will cut mortally.  Nothing smoother than the sea, yet when stirred into a
tempest nothing rageth more. 
Nothing so sweet as the patience and goodness of God, and nothing so
terrible as his wrath when it takes fire. 
Be therefore, in the fear of God, stirred up to bethink yourselves what
you mean to do.  It is the trick,
they say, of distracted people to spite their dear­est friends and nearest
relations most.  These above all
they seek to mischief.  But what
folly and madness is it in thee to fly at the face of God with thy sins, that
hath done more for thee than all thy friends, and can do more against thee than
all thy enemies thou hast in the world! 
But the more to move thee,

           1.
Consider that God keeps an exact account of all his mercies thou receivest.  You cannot steal God’s custom.  He that could tell the prophet where
his servant Gehazi had been, and what he had received of Naaman, will one day
tell thee to a farthing every talent thou hast received of him.  God hath, as a bag for thy sins, so a
book for his mercies, and what he books he means to reckon for.

           2.
Consider how severely he hath dealt with those that never had so much mercy
from him as thy­self.  If
heathens are speechless in judgment, when God reckons with them for their
mercies, O how con­founded wilt thou be that goest from gospel dispensa­tions
to hold up thy hand at the bar before the Judge of all the world!  ‘They are without excuse, because that,
when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful,’ Rom. 1:21.  If the heathen that was not thankful
for his penny, cannot lift up his hand in the day of the Lord, where wilt thou
appear that hast so many hundred talents in thy hand to answer for?

           Question.  But may be, poor wretch, thou mayest
now ask, what thou shouldst do to give God the praise of his mercies?

           Answer.  In a word, thou hast but one way to pay
God this his tribute, and it is a strange one—even by running deeper into
his debt than by all the mercies that yet thou hast received of him.  Hear therefore, poor sinner, what I
mean: That God—who hath given thee life and being—that hath exercised unspeakable
patience towards thee—been at a vast expense in his daily providence upon thee,
to preserve, feed, clothe, and maintain thee—all which have been most
wretchedly abused by thee, and for it thy life become forfeited to his
justice—doth yet offer a greater mercy than all these, even the Lord Jesus,
whom, if thou wilt, with shame and sorrow for thy past sins, but come unto, and
accept to be thy Lord and Saviour, then wilt thou be in a posture, and not till
then, to give God the praise of his other mercies.  He that rejects this, that is the greatest of all mercies,
can never be thankful for any.  It
is Christ who alone can give thee a spirit of thankfulness.  Not a Christian person in the world but
is an unthankful person. ‘Evil’ and ‘unthankful’ are inseparable.  O what a blessed gospel is this, that
teacheth us here to pay debts by running deeper into the score!—to be thankful
for less mercies, by accepting that which is infinitely greater!

           Use
Second.  For exhortation to
the saints; not to call you to this duty, which if you answer your name is
undoubtedly your practice, but to quicken you in it, and make you more in love
with it.

           1.
Consider it is a duty that becomes you well, ‘Praise is comely for the
upright,’ Ps.
33:1.  This gar­ment
of praise sits so well on none as on your back; you should not think yourselves
dressed in a morning till you have it on. 
An unthankful saint carries a contradiction with it.  ‘Evil’ and ‘unthankful’ are the twins
that live and die together.  As any
ceaseth to be evil, he begins to be thankful.

           2.
Consider it is that which God both expects and promiseth himself at your
hands; he made you for this end. 
When the vote passed in heaven for your being, yea happy being, in
Christ, it was upon this account, that you should be ‘a name and a praise’ to
him on earth in time and in heaven to eternity. Should God miss of this, he
would fail of one main part of his design.  What prompts him to bestow every mercy, but to afford you matter
to compose a song for his praise? 
They are ‘a people, children that will not lie: so he became their
Saviour,’ Isa.
63:8.  He looks
for fair dealing, you see, at your hands. 
Whom may a father trust with his reputation, if not a child? Where can a
prince expect honour, if not among his courtiers and favourites?  Your state is such as the least mercy
you have is more than all the world can show besides.  Thou, Christian, and thy few brethren, divide heaven and
earth among you.  What hath God
that he withholds from you?  Sun,
moon, and stars are set up to give you light, sea and land have their treasure
and store for your use.  Others do
but ravish them, you are the rightful heirs to them.  They groan that any other should be served by them.  The angels, bad and good, minister unto
you; the evil, against their will, are forced, like scullions, when they tempt
you to scour and brighten your graces, and make way for your greater
comforts.  Like Haman, they hold
your stirrup, while you mount up higher in favour with God.  The good angels are servants to your
heav­enly Father, and disdain not to carry you, as the nurse her master's child
in her arms.  Your God withholds
not himself from you.  He is your
portion, father, husband, friend, and what not.  The same heaven you shall have to dwell in with him; the
same table and fare.  God is his
own happiness, and admits you to enjoy himself.  O what honour is this, for the subject to drink in his
prince's cup!  ‘Thou shalt make
them drink of the rivers of thy pleasures,’ Ps. 36:8.  And all this, not as the purchase of
your sweat, much less blood; the feast is paid for by another hand, and you are
welcome; only he expects your thanks to the foun­der of it, at whose cost you
are entertained.  No sin-offering
is imposed upon you under the gospel; thank-offerings are all he looks for.

           3.
God hath a book of remembrance for your services; he takes kind notice
of the little good that is in you, and done by you.  Not the least office of love to his name and house is
overlooked, though mingled with much evil; he commands the one, pardons and
pities you for the other.  ‘There
is found some good thing toward the Lord God of Israel,’ it was said of
Jeroboam’s son, I
Kings 14:13. 
What an honourable testi­mony doth God give of Asa, that ‘his was
perfect all his days,’ II
Chr. 15:17, though we find many wry steps he took.  The little strength Philadelphia had
must not be forgot.  What a
favourable apology doth Christ make for Joshua, accused by Satan for his fil­thy
garments—‘Is not this a brand plucked out of the fire?’ and for his drowsy
disciples—‘The spirit is will­ing, but the flesh is weak?’  Now shall God take no­tice of the
little good in his saints, apologize for their infirmities, commend and reward
their weak services, yea eternize their memory with honour, ‘The righ­teous
shall be in everlasting remembrance,’ Ps. 112:6; and doth not he
deserve to be exalted for his infinite perfections? praised and loved, who is
all good, ever good, and doing good to them?  Shall not he be ten­der of thy name, and thou be regardless
of his hon­our, so as to entomb his precious mercies in the sepulchre of
unthankfulness?

           4.
Consider what an ornament a thankful frame of heart is to religion.  This commends God to the unbelieving
world, who knows little more of him than your lives preach to them. They read
religion in that character you print it, and make their report of God and his
ways as they see you behave yourselves in the world.  If you walk disconsolately, or grumble at di­vine
providence, how they can believe the ways are so pleasant as they are
told?  We listen what the servant
saith of his master. If he commends him, and goes cheerfully through his work,
this gains him credit among his neighbours.  It was a convincing testimony Daniel gave to the goodness of
God, when he would praise him thrice a day with the hazard of his life.  To see a poor Christian thankful for
his little pittance, yea, in the midst of his afflictions, as if he had crowns
and kingdoms at his dispose, an ordinary understand­ing would reason thus,
Surely this man finds some sweetness in his God that we see not, and is better
paid for his service than we know of. 
The joyful praise of dying saints in the midst of fiery flames, have
made their spectators go home in love, not only with religion, but with
martyrdom.

           5.
Consider the honour that is put upon you in this duty.  To attend on a prince, though
bareheaded and on the knee, is counted more honour for a noble­man, than to
live in the country, and have the service of his fellow-subjects.  Though we serve God all the day long,
yet in acts of worship we have the honour immediately to attend on him, and
minister to him. O blessed are they who may thus stand about him! Praise is the
highest act of worship, and therefore to be continued in heaven's blissful
state.  Whereas other graces shall
be melted into love and joy, so other duties of worship, as hearing, praying,
&c., into praise and thanksgiving. 
The priesthood was a great honour under the law.  He chose Aaron and his tribe from among
their brethren to serve at his altar; he would take that gift from their hand
which he would not at a king’s. 
But in this gospel state every believer hath a more honourable
priesthood, because he brings better sacrifices, the spiritual sacrifices of
praise and thanksgiving.  And while
thou art honour­ing thy God, thou honourest thyself.  The whole body shines with the beams of that crown which is
put on the head.

           6.
Consider that thy praises will render thy prayers more grateful and
successful.  It was thought a
good omen for Alexander’s future victories, that he was liberal to the gods in
his sacrifices, throwing frankincense by handfuls into the fire.  He is a nig­gard to himself that is so
to his God.  Remittatur in suum
principium cæleste profluvium, quo uberius terræ refundatur (Bern. Serm. 42 in
Cantic.)—let the river of God’s mercies be returned
to pay its tribute to God, their source and fountain, that they may refund more
abundantly to us again.  You shall
observe the saints in their greatest straits, when they have most to beg,
deliver their prayers praise-wise. 
Jehoshaphat sends his priest praising God into the field, and God fights
for him.  David, in the cave, My
heart is fixed, I will sing and give praise.’  Daniel, when a trap was laid for his life, ‘praiseth God
thrice a day.’  Christ himself,
when he would raise Lazarus, lifts up his eyes and blesseth God, ‘I thank thee,
O Fa­ther,’ &c.; when he was to suffer, sings a hymn.  A thankful heart can­not easily meet
with a denial.  ‘Let the high
praises of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged sword in their hand,’ Ps. 149:6.

 

 

 

[1]Niggard: a stingy or miserly
person.  From Webster’s.

[2]Feoffee, one put in
possession of anything.—Ed.

[3]Used in this context,
awful means to inspire awe, or filled with awe and respect; and not the
more common and purely colloquial: terrible, bad, or objectionable.

—SDB

[4]Progging;—(poss. derived from
M.E. prokken, to beg) to prowl
about, as in search of food or plunder; forage.   >From Webster’s.

[5]Jakes:—an outdoor toilet,
privy, outhouse.

— From Webster’s.

[6]Valetudinarious; sickly, ill, in
poor health.

—From Webster’s.

[7]By outlandish,
Rev. Gurnall means foreign or alien here. —SDB

[8]procer’ity, n. [L. proceritas,
from procerus, tall.]

 

[9]panegyric: — A formal
speech or writing praising a person or event; a high or hyperbolic praise;
laudation.

— From Webster’s

[10]Beteem, sometimes beteeme,
to give, bestow.—Ed.

Division Third.—The Inward Principle of Prayer.

 

‘In the Spirit.’

 

         We
are come to the third division in the apostle’s directory for prayer—the
principle or spring from whence they are to flow—the Spirit,
‘praying...in the Spirit.’  In
proceeding to the consideration of this topic, the first point is that which
will be determined by the solution of the following question, viz:—

         Question. What is it to pray ‘in the
Spirit?’

         Answer. Interpreters generally
comprehend in this phrase both the spirit of the person praying, and the
Spirit of God, by which our spirits are fitted for and acted in prayer.  Est oratio in spiritu, nempe et nostro
quo oramus, et Spiritu Sancto per quem oramus (so Zanch. in loc)—that is a prayer in
the spirit, which, by the help of the Holy Spirit, is performed with our soul
and spirit.  These two indeed go
ever together.  We cannot act our
spirit without the Holy Spirit. 
Alas! this is like a lump of clay in our bosoms till he quickens it; and
we cannot but with our heart and spirit, when the Holy Spirit moves upon
it.  The Spirit’s breath is
vital.  The Holy Ghost doth not
breathe in us as one through a trunk or trumpet, which is a mere passive
instrument; but stirs up our hearts, and actuates our affections in the
duty.  Prayer is called ‘a pouring
out of the soul to God.’  The soul
is the well from which the water of prayer is poured; but the Spirit is the
spring that feeds this well, and the hand that helps to pour it forth.  The well would have no water without
the spring, neither could it deliver itself of it without one to draw it.  Thus the Spirit of God must fill the
heart with praying affections, and enable them also to pour themselves
forth.  From the words thus sensed,
we shall a while dwell upon these two propositions.  First. He who
will pray acceptably, must pray in his heart and spirit.  Second.
He that would pray in his own spirit, must pray in the Spirit of God.

 

 

BRANCH
FIRST.

 

[He who will pray
acceptably,

must
pray in his heart and spirit.]

 

           Praying
in the spirit is opposed to lip‑labour, ‘they draw near to me with their lips,
but their heart is removed far from me;’ like an adulteress, whose heart and
spirit is as far from her husband as where her paramour is.  It is no prayer in which the heart of
the person bears no part. 
Parisiensis, glossing upon the place of Hosea 14:2, ‘so will we render
the calves of our lips,’ compares the duty of prayer to the calves in the legal
sacrifices.  The composure of the
words, saith he, in prayer, is as the skin or hide of the beast, the voice as
the hair, the understanding as the flesh, the desires and affections of the
heart as the fat of the inwards; this, and this alone, makes it a prayer in
God's account.  ‘My spirit
prayeth,’ saith the apostle, I Cor. 14:14; and, ‘I will pray
with the spirit,’ ver.
15. So, ‘God, whom I serve with my spirit,’ Rom. 1:9.
The mel­odious sound which comes from a musical instru­ment, such as viol or
lute, is formed within the belly of the instrument, and the deeper the belly of
the instrument the sweeter is its music; the same strings on a flat board,
touched by the same hand, would make no music.  The melodiousness of prayer comes from within the man, ‘We are
the circumcision which worship God in the spirit,’ and the deeper the groans
are that come from thence, still the sweeter the mel­ody.  There may be outward worship and inward
atheism; as Melancthon said, vos Itali adoratis Deum in pane, quem non
creditis in cælo esse—You Italians worship that God in bread, whom you do
not believe to be in heaven.  There
may be much pomp in the outward ceremony of the performance, when the per­son
neither loves nor believes that God whom he courts with an external devotion.  The blemishes which made the sacrifices
in the law rejected, were not only in the outward limbs of the beast, the sick
as well as the lame beast was refused, Mal. 1:8. We read of loud
praises when never a word was heard spoken. But God owns none for a prayer that
hath the vehe­mency of the voice but not inspirited with the affec­tion of the
heart.  Separate the spirit from
the body, and the man is dead; the heart from the lip, and there is a
dissolution of prayer.  Now, in
handling of this I must first show what it is to pray in our spirit when these
three are found in the duty:—First.
When we pray with knowledge. 
Second. When we pray in
fervency.  Third. When we pray in sincerity.  These three exercise the three powers
of the soul and spirit. By knowledge the understanding is set on work; by
fervency the affections; and by sincerity the will.  All these are required in conjunction to ‘praying in the
spirit.’  There may be knowledge
without fervency, and this, like the light of the moon, is cold, and quickens
not; there may be heat without knowledge, and this is like mettle in a blind
horse; there may be knowledge and fervency, and this like a chariot with swift
horses, and a skilful driver in the box, 
but, being dishonest, carries it the wrong way.  Neither of these, nor both these
together, avail, because sincerity is wanting to touch these affections, and
make them stand to the right point, which is the glory of God. He will have
little thanks for his zeal that is fervent in spirit, but serving himself with
it, not the Lord.

 

[To pray in the
spirit, we must have

knowledge
and understanding.]

 

           First.  To pray acceptably, or in the spirit, it is required that we
pray with knowledge and under­standing.  A blind sacrifice was rejected in the law, Mal. 1:8;
much more are blind devotions under the gospel.  As knowledge aggravates a sin, so ignorance takes from the
excellency of an action that is good: ‘I bear them witness,’ saith Paul, ‘they
have a zeal, but not according to knowledge.’  The want of an eye dis­figures the fairest face, the want of
knowledge the devoutest prayer: ‘Ye worship ye know not what: we know what we
worship: for salvation is of the Jews,’ John 4:22, where we see what
a fundamental defect the want of knowledge is in acts of worship, such as
brings damnation with it.

           Question
First.  But why is knowledge
so requi­site to acceptable praying?

           Answer
First.  Because without this
it is not a ‘reasonable service;’ for we know not what we do. God calls for
8@(486¬< 8"JD,\"<—‘reasonable
serv­ice,’ Rom.
12:1, which some oppose to the legal sacri­fices.  They offered up beasts to God; in the
gospel we are to offer up ourselves. 
Now the soul and spirit of a man is the man.  Why did not God lay a law on beasts to worship him, but
because they have not a rational soul to understand and reflect upon their own
actions? And will God accept that service and worship from man, wherein he doth
not exercise that faculty that distinguisheth him from a beast?  ‘Show yourselves men,’ saith the
prophet to those idolaters, Isa. 46:8.  And truly he that worships the true God ig­norantly is
brutish in his knowledge as well as he that prays to a false god.

           Answer
Second.  Because the
understanding is JÎ º(,µT<46Î<—the
leading faculty of the soul, and so the key of the work.  The inward worship of the heart is the
chief.  Now, the other powers of
the soul are disabled if they want this their guide which holds the candle to
them.  As for those violent
passions of seeming zeal, sorrow, and joy, which sometimes ap­pear in ignorant
worshippers and their blind devo­tions, they are spurious.  Christ’s sheep, like Jacob’s, conceive
by the eye.

           1.
The saint’s eye is enlightened to see the maj­esty and glorious holiness of
God, and then it reveres him, and mourns before him in the sense of his own
vileness: ‘Now mine eye seeth thee, wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in
dust and ashes,’ Job
42:6.

           2.
Again, by an eye of faith he beholds the goodness and love of God to poor
sinners in Christ, and in particular to him, and this eye affects his heart
to love and rely on him, which it is impossible the ignorant soul should do.

           Question
First. But you will say, what is neces­sary for the praying soul to know?

           Answer
First. There is required a knowledge that he to whom he directs his
prayer is the true God.  Re­ligious
worship is an incommunicable flower in the crown of the deity, and that both
inward and outward. We are religiously to worship him only, who, by rea­son of
his infinite perfections, deserves our supreme love, honour, and trust.  He must have the crown that owes the
kingdom.  ‘The kingdom and power’
are God’s.  Therefore ‘the glory’
of religious worship be­longs to him alone, Matt. 6:13.  Angels are the highest order of
creatures, but we are forbid to ‘worship any of the host of heaven,’ Deut. 17:3.  ‘Who would not fear thee, O King of
nations? for to thee it doth appertain’—where fear is put for religious
worship, as appears by the circumstance of the place.  The want of this knowledge filled the heathen world with
idol­atry.  For, where they found
any virtue or excellency in the creature, presently they adored and worshipped
it, like some ignorant rustic, who coming to court, thinks every one he sees in
brave clothes to be the king.

           Answer
Second.  There is required a
knowledge of this true God, what his nature is.  ‘He that cometh to God must believe
that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him,’ Heb. 11:6.  It is confessed, a perfect knowledge of
the divine per­fections is incomprehensible by a finite being.  He answered right who said—when asked quid
est Deus? what is God?—si scirem essem ipse Deus—if I knew, I myself
would be God.  None indeed knows
God thus but God himself; yet a Scripture knowledge of him is necessary to the
right performance of this duty. The want of understanding his omniscience and
in­finite mercy, is the cause of vain babbling, and a con­ceit to prevail by
long prayers, which our Sav­iour charges upon the heathen, and prevents in his
disciples by acquainting them with these attributes, Matt. 6:7, 8.  They came rather narrare than rogare—to
inform God than to beg.  The
ignorance of his high and glorious majesty is the cause why so many are rude
and slovenly in their gesture, so saucy and ir­reverently familiar with God in
their expressions.  We are bid to
‘be sober, watching unto prayer.’ 
Truly there is an insobriety in our very language, when we do not clothe
the desires of our hearts with such hum­ble expressions as may signify the awe
and dread of his sacred majesty in our hearts.  In a word, the rea­son why men dare come reeking out of the
adulterous embraces of their lusts, and stretch forth their un­washen hands to
heaven in prayer—whence is it? —but because they know not God to be of such
infinite purity as will have no fellowship with the workers of iniquity?  ‘Thou thoughtest that I was altogether
such an one as thyself,’ Ps.
50:21.

           Answer
Third. We must understand the matter of our prayers, what we beg,
what we deprecate. With­out this we cannot in faith say amen to our own
prayers, but may soon ask that which neither becomes us to desire, nor is
honourable for God to give.  This
Christ rebuked, when she in the gospel put up her ambitious request for her
children to be set one at the right the other at the left hand of Christ in his
kingdom.  God never gave us leave
thus to indite our own prayers by the dictate of our private spirit, but hath
bound us up to ask only what he hath promised to give.

           Answer
Fourth. There is required a knowledge of the manner how we are to pray;
as, in whose name, and what qualifications are required in the prayer and
person praying.  We find Paul
begging prayers, ‘that ye strive together with me in your prayers.’  In another place he tells us of a
lawful striving, II
Tim. 2:5. 
There is a law of prayer which must be observed, or we come at our own
adventure.  Even in false wor­ship
they go by some rule in their addresses to their gods.  Therefore those smattering Samaritans,
when a plague was on them, concluded the reason to be be­cause they ‘knew not
the manner of the god of the land,’ II Kings 17:26.  The true God will be served in due
order, or else expect a breach.  A
word or two for application of this branch.

 

[Use or Application.]

 

           Use
First.  How few then pray in the
spirit! Were this the only character to try many by, would they not be cast
over the bar for mere babblers? 
As, first, those in the Popish church, where most know not a word what
they say in prayer.  If it be such
a weakness to subscribe a petition to a king, or to a parliament, which we
never read or understood, what shall we then think of such brutish prayers as
these sent to heaven and indorsed with an ignoramus on the back of
them?  Yea, amongst ourselves,
many, who though they pray in their mother language, yet are as ignorant as to
the matter of their prayers; how else could they patter over the creed and
commandments with their blind devotion instead of prayers?  Are there more deplored ruins of
mankind to be found among the Indians than such?  Yea, when they join with their minister in prayer, neither
know that God to whom the prayer is directed, nor the Mediator under the favour
of whose name it is presented. 
Before Nebu­chadnezzar could bless God, he had the under­standing of a
man given him, which these yet want. Do you not think such ignorant wretches as
these might be easily persuaded to kneel before an image gaudily dressed up, or
to put their letter into some angel or saint's hand for despatch, being made to
believe that it will find a kinder welcome by the mediation of such
favourites?  O what a darkness is
there even at this day upon the face of our waters! on which, had but the
pope’s instruments opportunity to sit brooding awhile, they might soon bring
their de­sired work to a perfection among the multitude of ignorant souls that
are amidst us!  We see there is
need not only to stir up our people to pray, or else we send them before they
have learned their errand, as if we should call a child to read before he hath
learned his letters.

           Use
Second.  It speaks to all that
are at any time the mouth to God for others in prayer, so to pray, that
those who join with them may clearly understand what they put up to God for
them.  Who is more to be
blamed—he that prayeth in an unknown tongue, or he that with such uncouth
phrases and high-flown expressions as are not understood by half the com­pany?  Suppose thine own spirit prays, as the
apostle saith, yet thy understanding is unfruitful unto them. They, alas! are
at a loss, and stand gazing, as the dis­ciples did when the cloud parted Christ
from them. Either come down from thy high towering expres­sions, or help them
up to thee.  They may say of thee
as those of Moses, ‘We know not what is become of the man.’  No wonder if, while they cannot keep
sight of the matter in hand, that their thoughts rove and dance about some
object of their own framing.  Dost
thou pray to be admired for thy rouling tongue, height of gifts, or the like?  Perhaps thou mayest have this thy
reward of some ignorant ones, and others that would as fain commend themselves
upon the same account; but consider what a low and base end thou propoundest in
so high a service, unworthy of a Chris­tian’s thought.  What! no net to fish with for thy
credit and applause but a sacred ordinance!  The whip which Christ made in the gospel belongs to thy
back.  Our blessed Saviour, that
was all on fire with zeal to see his house of prayer made a house of
merchandise, O how doth his soul loathe the base­ness of thy mercenary spirit,
who dost the same, though in another dress!

 

[To pray in the
spirit, we must have
fervency.]

 

           Second.  We pray in the spirit when we pray in fervency.  The soul keeps the body warm while it
is in it.  So much as there is our
soul and spirit in a duty, so much heat and fervency.  If the prayer be cold, we may certainly conclude the heart
is idle, and bears no part in the duty. 
Our spirit is an active creature: what it doth is with a force, whether
bad or good.  Hence in Scripture,
to set the heart and soul upon a thing, im­ports vehemency and fervour.  Thus the poor labour­ing man is said to
‘set his heart on his wages,’ Deut. 24:15.  The hopes of what he shall have at
night makes him sweat at his work in the day.  Darius ‘set his heart on Daniel to deliver him;’ and it
follows, ‘He laboured till the going down of the sun to deliver him,’ Dan. 6:14.  When the spirit of a man is set about a
work, he will do it to purpose. 
‘If thou shalt seek the Lord with all thy heart and with all thy soul,’ Deut. 4:29,
that is, fervently.  This consists
not in a violent agitation of the bodily spirits.  A man may put his body into a sweat in duty, and the prayer
be cold. That is the fervent prayer that flows from a warm heart and enkindled
affections; like an exhalation which first is set on fire in the cloud, and
then breaks forth into thunder. 
‘My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned: then
spake I with my tongue, Lord, make me to know mine end,’ Ps. 39:3, 4.  Now as zeal is not one single affection,
but the edge and vehemency of them all; so fervency in prayer is, when all the
affections act strongly and suit­ably to the several parts of prayer.

           In
confession, then have we fervency, when the soul melts into a holy shame and
sorrow for the sins he spreads before the Lord, so that he feels a holy smart
and pain within, and doth not act a tragical part with a comical heart.  For, as Chrysostom saith, ‘To paint
tears is worse than to paint the face.’ 
Here is true fervency: ‘I mourn in my complaint, and make a noise,’ Ps. 55:2.  There may be fire in the pan, when none
in the piece; a loud wind, but no rain with it. David made a noise with his
voice, and mourned in his spirit.

           So,
in petition we have fervency, when the heart is drawn out with vehement desires
of the grace it prays for, not some lazy woundings or wishings, or weak
velleities, but passionate breathings and break­ings of heart.  Sometimes it is set out by the violence
of thirst, which is thought more tormenting than that of hunger.  As the hunted hart panteth after the
cool waters, so did David’s soul after God, Ps. 42.  Some­times it is set out by the
strainings of a wrestler—so Jacob is said to wrestle with the angel; and of
those that run in a race, ‘instantly serving God day and night,’ Acts 26:7,
¦< ¦6J,<,\‘—they
stretched out themselves.  ‘My soul
breaketh for longing,’ Ps.
119:20, as one that with straining breaks a vein.

 

[Why we must pray in
the spirit fervently.]

 

           Question.  But why must we pray in the spirit
fervently?  Answer First.  We must pray in the spirit fervently,
from  the command.  ‘Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with
all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might; and these
words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart,’ Deut. 6:5, 6;
which imports the affectionate perfor­mance of every command and duty.  Sever the out­ward from the inward part
of God’s worship, and he owns it not. 
‘Who hath required this at your hands?’ Isa. 1:12.  As if he had said, Did I ever command
you to give a beast’s heart in sacrifice, and keep back your own?  Why dost thou pray at all?  Wilt thou say, Be­cause he commands
it?  Then, why not fervently, which
the command intends chiefly?  When
you send for a book, would you be pleased with him that brings you only the
cover?  And will God accept the
skin for the sacrifice?  The
external part of the duty is but as the cup.  Thy love, faith, and joy are the wine he de­sires to taste
of.  Without these, thou givest him
but an empty cup to drink in.  Now,
what is this but to mock him?

           Answer
Second.  We must pray in the
spirit, to comport with the name of God.  The common de­scription of prayer is calling on the name of
God. Now, as in prayer we call upon the name of God, so it must be with a
worship suitable to his name, or else we pollute it and incur his wrath.  This is the chief meaning of the third
commandment.  In the first, God
provides that none besides himself, the only true God, be worshipped; in the
second, that he, the true God, be not served with will‑worship, but his own
institutions; and in the third, that he be not served vainly and slightily in
his own worship.  There is no
attribute in God but calls for this fervency in his worship.

           1.
He is a great and glorious God; and as such it becomes us to approach
his presence with our affec­tions in the best array.  Are yawning prayers fit for a great God’s hearing? Darest
thou speak to such a majesty before thou art well awake, and hast such a
sacrifice prepared as he will accept? 
‘Cursed be the deceiver, which hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and
sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing: for I am a great King, saith the
Lord of hosts, and my name is dreadful among the heathen,’ Mal. 1:14.  See here, first, anything less than the
best we have is a corrupt thing. 
He will accept a little, if the best, but he abhors that thou shouldst
save thy best for another.  Again
he that offers not the best—the strength of his affections—is a deceiver;
because he robs him of his due, and he is a great God.  It is fit the prince’s table should be
served with the best that the market affords, and not the refuse.  When Jacob intended a present to the
governor of the land, he bids his children ‘take of the best of the fruit of
the land in your vessels.’  Lastly,
the awful thoughts which God extorts from the very heathen by his mighty works,
do reproach us who live in the bosom of the church, and despise his name by our
heedless and heartless serving of him.

           2.
He is the living God.  Is a
dead‑hearted prayer a sacrifice suitable to a living God?  How can that be accepted of him which
never came from him?  Lay not your
dead prayers by his side.  The
lively prayer is his, the dead thine own. 
What the psalmist saith of persons, we may say of prayers, The living,
the living they shall praise him.’ 
The glorious angels, who for their zeal are called seraphims, and a
flame of fire, these he chooseth to minister to him in heaven; and the saints
below—who, though they sojourn on earth, yet have their extraction from heaven,
and so have spirits raised and refined from the dulness of their earthly
constitution—these he sets apart for himself as priests to offer up spiritual
sacrifices unto him. The quicker any one is himself, the more offensive is a
dull leaden heeled messenger or slow‑handed work­man to him.  How then can God, who is all life,
brook thy lazy listless devotions? 
When he com­manded the neck of an ass to be broke, and not offered up
unto him, was it because he was angry with the beast?  No sure, it was his own workmanship; no other than himself
made it; but to teach us how unpleasant a dull heart is to him in his service.

           3.
He is a loving God, and love will be paid in no coin but its own.  Give God love for love, or he ac­counts
you give him nothing.  ‘If ye love
me, keep my commandments,’ John 14:15.  And, ‘If a man would give the substance
of his house for love, it would be contemned,’ Song 8:7.  So, if a man thinks to commute with
God, and give him anything in prayer instead of his love and fervent affection,
it will be contemned. Let the prayer be never so pithy, the posture of the body
never so devout, the voice never so loud, if the affections of the heart be not
drawn out after God in the duty, he disdains and rejects it, because it doth
not correspond with the dear affections which God expresseth to us.  He draws out the heart with his purse,
and gives his very soul and self with all his gifts to his people.  Therefore he expects our hearts should
come with all our services to him. 
It is no wonder to see the servant, whose master is hard and cruel, have
no heart to or mettle in his work; but love in the master useth to put life
into the servant. And there­fore God, who is incomparably the best master, dis­dains
to be served as none but the worst among men use to be.

           Answer
Third.  We must pray in the
spirit, be­cause the promise is only to fervent prayer.  A still-born child is no heir, neither
is a prayer that wants life heir to any promise.  Fervency is to prayer what fire was to the spices in the
censer—without this it cannot ascend as incense before God.  Some have attempted a shorter cut to
the Indies by the north, but were ever frozen up in their way; and so will all
sluggish prayers be served.  It
were an easy voyage indeed to heaven if such prayers might find the way
thither.  But never could they show
any of that good land's gold who prayed thus, though he were a saint. The
righteous man indeed is declared heir, as to all other promises, so to this of
having his prayer heard; but if he hath not aptitudinem intrandi—he is
not in a fit posture to enter into the possession of this promise, or claim
present benefit from it, while his heart remains cold and formal in the
duty.  There is a qualification to
the act of prayer as necessary as of the person praying: ‘The effectual fervent
prayer of a righteous man availeth much.’ 
When God intends a mercy for his people, he stirs up a spirit of prayer
in them: ‘I said not unto the seed of Jacob, Seek ye me in vain,’ Isa. 45:19;
that is, I never stirred them up to it, and helped them in it, and then let
them lose their labour.  ‘Then ye
shall go and pray unto me, and I will hearken unto you: and ye shall seek me,
and find me, when ye shall search for me with all your heart,’ Jer. 29:12, 13.  Feeble desires, like weak pangs, go
over, and bring not a mercy to the birth. 
As the full time grows nearer, so the spirit of prayer grows stronger.
‘Shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, I tell
you that he will avenge them speedily,’ Luke 18:7, 8.  None in the house per­haps will stir
for a little knock at the door; they think he is some idle beggar, or one in no
great haste; but if he raps thick and loud, then they go, yea, out of their
beds.  ‘Though he will not rise and
give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity,’ Luke 11:8.

 

[Use or Application.]

 

           Use
First.  This sadly shows there
is little true praying to be found among us, because few that pray fervently.  Let us sort men into their several
ranks.

           1.
The ignorant, do these pray fervently?  Their hearts, alas! must needs be frozen up in the duty;
they dwell too far from the sun to have any of this divine heat in their
devotions.

           2.
The profane person, that is debauched with his filthy lusts, his heat
runs out another way.  Can the
heart which is inflamed with lusts be any other than cold in prayer?  Hell-fire must be quenched before this
from heaven can be kindled.

           3.
The soul under the power of roving thoughts —whose mind, like Satan, is
walking to and fro the earth, while his eyes seem nailed to heaven—can he be
fervent?  Can the affections be
intended and the mind inattentive? 
Fervency unites the soul and gathers in the thoughts to the work in
hand.  It will not suffer
diversions, but answers all foreign thoughts, as Nehemiah, in another case, did
them that would have called him off from building, ‘I am doing a great work, so
that I cannot come down: why should the work cease?’ Neh. 6:3.  It is said of Elias {Elijah}, ‘He
prayed earnestly,’ he prayed in praying, so the Greek. As in Ezekiel’s vision,
there was ‘a wheel in a wheel,’ so a prayer in his prayer.  Whereas the roving soul is prayerless,
his lips pray and his mind plays; his eye is up to heaven, as if that were his
mark, but he shoots his thoughts down to the earth.

           4.
He to whom the duty is tedious and weari­some, who doth not sigh and
groan in the duty, but under it; who prays as a sick man works in his calling,
finding no delight or joy in it. 
True fervency suffers no weariness, feels no pain.  The tradesman, when hot at his work,
and the soldier in fight, the one feels not his weariness nor the other his
wounds.  Affec­tions are strong
things, able to pull up a weak body. Therefore, he that shrugs at a duty, and
turns this way and that way, as a sick man from one side of his bed to the
other for ease, shows he hath little content in the duty, and therefore less
zeal. These aches of the spirit in prayer—though he be a saint—come of some
cold he hath gotten, and declare him to be under a great distemper.  A man in health finds not more savour
in his food and refreshing from it, than the Christian doth in the offices of
religion, when his heart is in the right temper.

           Use
Second. For exhortation. 
Dost thou pray? Pray fervently, or thou dost nothing.  Cold prayer is no more prayer than
painted fire is fire.  That prayer
which warms not thine own heart, will it, thinkest thou, move God’s?  Thou drawest the tap, but the vessel is
frozen.  A man hath not the use of
his hand clung up with cold, neither canst thou have the use of thy spirit in
duty till thy heart chafed into some sense and feeling of what thou prayest
for.  Now to bring thy cold heart
into some spiritual heat,

 

[Arguments to
enkindle our zeal

and fervency in
prayer.]

 

           Argument
1.  Consider the excellency
of zeal and fervency.  If a
saint, thou hast a principle that in­clines thee to approve of things that are
excellent; and such is this.  Life
is the excellency of beings, yea, even in inanimate creatures there is an
analogical life, and therein consists its excellency.  The spirits of wine commend it; what is it worth when dead
and flat?  In the diamond, the
sparkle gives the worth; in fountain water, that which makes it more excellent
than other is its motion, called therefore ‘living water.’  Much more in beings that have true
life; for this the flea or fly are counted nobler creatures than the sun.  The higher kind of life that beings
have, their nature is thereby the more advanced—beasts above plants, men above
beasts, and angels above men.  Now
as life gives the excellency to being, so vivacity and vigour in operating
gives excellency to life.  Indeed
the nobler the life of the creature is, the greater energy is in its
actings.  The apprehension of an
angel is quicker, and zeal stronger, than in a man. So that, the more lively
thou art in thy duty, and the more zeal thou expres­sest therein, the nearer
thou comest to the nature of those glorious spirits who, for their zeal in
service of God, are called ‘a flame of fire.’  I confess, to be calm and cool in inferior things, and in
our own matters betwixt man and man, is better than zeal.  So Solomon saith, ‘A man of
understanding is of an excellent spirit,’ Prov. 17:27.  In the Hebrew it is a cool spirit.  Injuries do not put him into a flame,
neither do any occurrences in the world heat him to any height of joy, grief,
or anger.  Who more temperate in
these than Moses? but set this holy man to pray, he is fire and tow, all life
and zeal. Indeed it is one excel­lency of this fervency of spirit in prayer,
that it allays all sinful passions. 
David’s fervency in praying for his child when alive, made him bear the
tidings of his death so calmly and patiently.  We hear not an angry word that Hannah replies to her
scolding companion Peninnah.  And
why, but because she had found the art of easing her troubled spirit in
prayer?  What need she contend with
her adversary, who could, by wrest­ling with God, persuade him to espouse her
quarrel? And truly were there nothing else to commend fer­vency of spirit in
prayer, this is enough—that, like David's harp, it can charm the evil spirit of
our passions, which in their excess the saint counts great sins, and I am sure
finds them grievous troubles. When are you more placate and serene, than when
the most life and fervour your souls can mount up in the flame of your
sacrifices into the bosom of God? Possibly you may come, like Moses, down the
mount with greater heat, but it will be against sin, not for self; whereas a
formal prayer, like a plaster, which hath good ingredients in it, yet being
laid cold upon the wound, hurts it rather than heals it.

           Argument
2.  God deserves the prime
and strength of thy soul should be bestowed on him in thy prayers.

           (1.)
He gave thee the powers of thy soul and all thy affections.  According to the mould so is the stat­ue
that is cast in it; such thou art as thou wert in the idea of the divine
mind.  Now, may not thy Maker call
for that which was his gift?  He
that made the stone an inanimate being, and confined the narrow souls of brutes
to act upon low sensitive good, en­nobleth thee with a rational appetite and
spiritual affections.  Now, wilt
thou not employ those divine powers in the worship of thy God, from whom, thou
hadst them?  This were hard
indeed—that God should be denied what himself gave, and not suffered to taste
of his own cost.  ‘I came unto my
own,’ saith Christ, ‘and they would not receive me.’  Thus here, I came to my own creature; he had his life from
me, and brings a dead heart unto me! 
Suppose a friend should give you notice that he will ere long be at your
house, and sends you in beforehand a vessel of rich wine; which you, when he
comes, grudge to broach it for his entertainment, and put him off with that
which is dead and flat?  Expectest
thou a better friend to be thy guest than thy God?  The psalmist calls upon us to ‘serve the Lord with
gladness,’ and what is his enforcement? 
‘Know ye that the Lord he is God: it is he that hath made us,’ Ps. 100:2, 3.  Who plants a vineyard and looks not to
drink  of the wine?  If God calls our corn and wine his, he
therefore expects to be served with them; much more with our love and joy, for
surely he allows us not to alienate the best of his gifts from him.  When thou art therefore going to pray,
call up thy affections, which haply are asleep on some creature's lap, as Jonah
in the sides of the ship: ‘What meanest thou, O sleeper? arise, call upon thy
God.’

           (2.)
He deserves thy affections because he gives thee his.  He is jealous of thee because he is zealous
for thee.  Well may he complain of
thy cold dreaming prayers whose heart is on a flame of love to thee. High and
admirable are the expressions with which he sets forth his dear love to his
people; whatever he doth for them is with a zeal.  In protecting of them, ‘as birds flying, so will the Lord
defend Jerusalem,’ that is, swiftly, as a bird flies full speed to her nest
when she perceives her young is in danger; in aven­ging them of their enemies,
‘the zeal of the Lord of hosts shall perform this;’ in hearing their prayers he
doth it ‘with delight;’ in forgiving their sins he is ready to forgive,’
‘multiplies to pardon;’ when they ask one talent he gives them two.  Jacob desires a safe egress and
regress.  He doth this and more
than he desired, for he brings him home with two bands.  Not the least mercy he gives but he
draws forth his souls and heart with it; even in his afflicting providences,
where he seems to show least love, there his heart overflows with it.  ‘O Ephraim, what shall I do unto thee? mine
heart is turned within me.’

           (3.)
He is a good pay-master for his people’s zeal.  ‘He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him,’ Heb. 11:6.  Never did fervent prayer find cold
welcome with him.  Elias’
{Elijah’s} prayer fetched fire from heaven because it carried fire to heaven.
The tribe of Levi for their zeal were preferred to the priesthood.  And why?  Surely they who were so zealous in doing justice on their
brethren would be no less zealous in making atonement for them by their
sacrifices.  Most men lose their
fervency and strength of their desires by misplacing them; they are zealous for
such things as cannot, and persons that oft will not, pay them for their
pains.  O how hot is the covet­ous
man in his chase after the world's pelf! 
He ‘pants after the dust of the earth,’ and that ‘on the head of the
poor.’  But what reward hath he for
his labour? After all his getting, like the dogs in pursuit of the hare, he
misseth his game, and at last goes often poor and supperless to bed in his
grave; to be sure he dies ‘a fool,’ Jer. 17:11.  How many court-spaniels—that have
fawned and flattered, yea, licked up their mas­ter’s spittle, and all for some
scraps of preferment —have befooled themselves, when at last they have seen
their creeping sordid practices rewarded with the fatal stroke of the headsman,
or a lingering consump­tive death in their prince’s favour?  Which made that ambitious cardinal say
too late, If he had been as observant of his heavenly Master as he had been of
his earthly, he could not have been left so miserable at last.  In a word, do we not see the
superstitious person knocking his breast and cutting his own flesh, out of a
zeal to his wooden god, that hath neither ear to hear nor hand to help
him?  Now, doth not the liv­ing
God, thy loving Father, deserve thy zeal more than their dead and dumb idols do
theirs?  For shame!  Let not us be cold in his worship when
the idolater sweats before his god of clouts[1];
let not the worldling’s zeal in pursuit of his earthly mammon leave thee
lagging behind with a heedless heartless serving of thy God.  Neither fear the world’s hooting at
thee for thy zeal; they think thee a fool, but thou knowest them
to be so.

 

[How to raise our
affections to fervency in prayer.]

 

           Question.  But how may we get this fervency of
spirit in prayer?

           Answer
(a). Thou who propoundest the question art a saint or not; if not, there is
another question must precede this. 
How thou, that art at present in a state of spiritual death, mayest have
spiritual life? There must be life in the soul before there can be life in
the duty.  All the rugs in the
upholsterer’s shop will not fetch a dead man to warmth, nor any arguments,
though taken from the most moving topics in the Scripture, will make thee pray
fervently while thy soul lies in a dead state.  Go first to Christ that thou may­est have life, and having
life, then there is hope to chafe thee into some heat.  But,

           Answer
(b).  If thou beest a saint, it
yet calls for thy utmost care to get, and when thou hast got, to keep, thy
soul in a kindly heat.  As the
stone cannot of itself mount up into the air, so the bird—though it can do
this, yet—cannot stay there long without some labour and motion with its
wings.  The saints have a spark of
heavenly fire in their bosom, but this needs the bellows of their care and
diligence to keep it alive. There is a rust that breeds from the gold, a worm
from the wood, a moth from the garment, that in time waste them; and ashes from
the coal that choke the fire; yea, and in the saint too, which will damp his
zeal if not cleared by daily watchfulness.  Observe therefore what is thy chief impediment to fervency
in prayer, and set thyself vigorously against it.  If thou beest remiss in this precedaneous[2]
duty thou wilt be much more remiss in prayer itself.  He that knows of a slough in the way, and mends it not
before he takes his journey, hath no cause to wonder when his chariot is laid
fast in it.

           Answer
(c).  Now this is not the same
in all, and therefore it is necessary that thou beest so much ac­quainted
with thine own estate as to know what is thy great clog in this duty.  Certainly, were not the firma­ment of
the saint’s soul cooled with some malignant vapours that arise from his own
breast, and weaken the force of divine grace in him, it would be summer all the
year long with him, his heart would be ever warm, and his affections lively in
duty.  Look there­fore narrowly
whence thy cooling comes.  Perhaps
thy heart is too much let out upon the world in the day, and at night thy
spirits are spent, when thou shouldst come before the Lord in prayer.  If thou wilt be hotter in duty thou
must be colder towards the world. 
A horse that carrieth a pack all day is unfit to go post at night.  Wood that hath the sap in it will not
burn easily; neither will thy heart readily take fire in holy duties who comest
so sopped in the world to them. Drain, therefore, thy heart of these eager
affections to that, if thou meanest to have them warm and lively in this.  Now, no better way for this than to set
thy soul under the frequent meditation of Christ's love to thee, thy relation
to him, with the great and glorious things thou expectest from him in another
world.  This, or nothing, will dry
up thy love to this world, as your wood which is laid a sunning is made fit for
the fire. Whereas, let your hearts continue soaking in the thoughts of an
inordinate love to the world, and you will find, when you come to pray, that
thy  heart will be in a duty even
as a foggy wet log at the back of a fire, long in kindling, and soon out
again.  Haply the deadness of thy
heart in prayer ariseth from want of a deep sense of thy wants and mercies thou
desirest to have supplied.  Couldst
thou but pray feelingly no doubt but thou wouldst pray fervently.  The hungry man needs no help from art
to learn him how to beg; his pinched bowels make him earnest and eloquent.

           Is
it pardon of sin thou wouldst pray for? 
First see what anguish of spirit they put thee to.  Do with thy soul as the chirurgeon with
his patient’s wounds, who syringeth them with some sharp searching water to try
what sense he hath of them.  Apply
such con­siderations to thy soul as may make thee feel their smart, and be
sensible of thy deplored estate by rea­son of them; then go and sleep at prayer
if thou canst. We have David first affecting his heart, and expres­sing the
dolor of his soul for his sin: ‘Mine iniquities are gone over mine head: as an
heavy burden they are too heavy for me,’ Ps. 38:4.  Now when his heart is sick with these
thoughts, as one with strong physic work­ing in his stomach, he pours out his
soul in prayer to God, ‘All my desire is before thee; and my groaning is not
hid from thee,’ ver.
9.

           Art
thou to pray for others?  First
pierce thy heart through with their sorrows, and, by a spirit of sympathy,
bring thyself to feel their miseries as if thou wert in their case.  Then will thy heart be warm in prayer
for them when it flows from a heart melted in compassion to them.  Thus we read Christ troubled himself
for Lazarus before he lifted up his eyes to heaven for him, John 11:33, 38,
compared.

           Again,
it may be thy want of zeal proceeds from a defect in thy faith.  Faith is the back of steel to the bow
of prayer; this sends the arrow with a force to heaven.  Where faith is weak the cry will not be
strong.  He that goes about a
business with little hope to speed will do it but faintly; he works, as we say,
for a dead horse.  It is a true
axiom, voluntas non fertur in impossibilia—the less we hope the less we
en­deavour.  We read of strong
cries that Christ put up in the days of his flesh.  Now mark what enforced his prayer—‘unto him that was able to
save him;’ and not only so, but if you look into that prayer to which this
refers, you shall find that he clasped about God as his God—‘My God, my
God.’  His hold on God held up his
spirit in prayer.  So in the
several precedents of praying saints upon Scripture record, you may see how the
spirit of prayer ebbed and flowed, fell and rose, as their faith was up and
down.  This made David press so
hard upon God in the day of his dis­tress: ‘I believed, therefore have I
spoken: I was greatly afflicted,’ Ps. 116:10.  This made the woman of Canaan so
invincibly importunate.  Let Christ
frown and chide, deny and rebuke her, she yet makes her approaches nearer and
nearer, gathering arguments from his very denials, as if a soldier should shoot
his enemy’s bullets back upon him again; and Christ tells us what kept her
spirit undaunted, ‘O woman, great is thy faith!’

           Again,
may be it proceeds from some distaste thou hast given to the Holy Spirit, who
alone can blow up thy affections; and then, no wonder thou art cold in prayer
when he is gone that should keep thy heart warm at it.  What is the body without the soul but
cold clay, dead earth? and what the soul without the Spirit? truly no
better.  O invite him back to thy
soul, or else thy praying work is at an end.  And, if thou wouldst persuade him to return, observe what
was the thing that distasted him, and remove it.  That which makes this dove forsake its lockyers will hinder
his return if not taken away.

 

[To pray in the
spirit, we must have
sincerity.]

 

           Third.  We pray in the spirit when we pray in sincerity.  There may be much fervour where there
is little or no sincerity.  And
this is strange fire; the heat of a distemper, not the kindly natural heat of
the new creature, which both comes from God and acts for God; whereas the other
is from self, and ends in self. Indeed the fire which self kindles serves only
to warm the man's own hands by it that makes it: ‘Behold, all ye that kindle a
fire, that compass yourselves about with sparks,’ Isa. 50:11;
the prophet represents them as sitting down about the fire they had made.  Self-acting and self‑aiming ever go together;
therefore our Saviour with spirit requires truth.  He ‘seeketh such to worship him’ as will ‘worship him in
spirit and in truth,’ John
4:23, 24.

           Question.  But wherein consists this sincere
fervency?

           Answer.
Zeal intends the affections, sincerity di­rects their end, and consists in
their purity and incor­ruption. 
The blood is oft hot when none of the pur­est, and affections strong
when the heart insincere; therefore the apostle exhorts us that we ‘love one
another out of a pure heart fervently,’ I Peter 1:22, and speaks
in another place of ‘sorrowing after a godly sort,’ that is, sincerely.  Now the sincerity of the heart in
prayer then appears when a person is real in his prayers, and that from pure
principles to pure ends.

           First.
When he is real in what he presents to God in prayer.  The index of his tongue without and the
clockwork of his heart within go together; he doth not declaim against a sin
with his lips which he fa­vours with his heart; he doth not make a loud cry for
that grace which he would be sorry to have granted him.  This is the true badge of a hypocrite,
who oft would be loath {that} God should take him at his word.  A dismal day it would be to such when
God shall bring in their own conscience to witness against them that their
hearts never signed and sealed the requests which they made.  There is a state-policy used sometimes
by princes to send ambassadors, and set treaties on foot, when nothing less
than peace is intended.  Such a
deceit is to be found in the false heart of man, to blind and cover secret
purposes of war and rebellion against God with fair overtures in prayer to him
for peace.

           Second.  When the person is not only real in
what he desires, but this from a pure principle to a pure end.  I doubt not but a hypocrite in
confession may have a real trouble upon his spirit for his sins, and cordially,
yea passionately, desire his pardoning mercy; but not from a pure principle—a
hatred of sin —but an abhorrency of wrath he sees hastening to him for it; not
for a pure end, that the glory of God’s mercy may be magnified in and by him,
but that him­self may not be tormented by God’s just wrath.  He may desire the graces of his Spirit,
but not out of any love to them, but only as an expedient, without which he
knows to hell he must go; as a sick man in exqui­site torture—suppose of the
stone or some other acute disease—calls for some potion he loathes, because he
knows he cannot have ease except he drinks it.  Whereas the sincere soul desires grace, not only as physic,
but food.  He craves it not only as
necessary but as sweet to his palate. 
The intrinsical bounty and excellency of holiness inflames him with such
a love to it, that, as one taken with the beauty of a virgin, saith he will
marry her though he hath noth­ing with her but the clothes to her back; so the
sincere heart would have holiness though it brought no other advantages with it
than what is found in its own lovely nature.  So much to show what sincerity in prayer is.

           Now
he that would pray acceptably must pray thus in his spirit, that is, with the
sincerity of his spirit.  ‘The
prayer of the upright is his delight.’ Nadab and Abihu brought fire, and had
fire, ‘a strange fire,’ to destroy them for the ‘strange fire’ they of­fered;
and such is all fervency and zeal that is not taken from the altar of a sincere
heart, Lev.
10:1.  ‘The
fervent prayer’—B@8×ÆFPb,4—‘availeth
much.’  It can do much, but it must
be of a righteous man, and such the sincere man only is.  And no wonder that God stands so much
upon sincerity in prayer, seeing the lip of truth is so prized even among
men.  Nature hath taught men to
commend their words to others by laying their hands on their breasts, as an
assurance that what they say or promise is true and cordial; which the penitent
publican it is like aimed at, he ‘smote upon his breast, saying, God be
merciful to me a sinner,’ Luke
18:13, thereby declaring whence his sor­rowful confession
came.  That light which told the
heathens that God must be worshipped, informed them also this worship must come
from the inward recesses of the heart. 
In sancto quid facit aurum —quin damnus id superis, &c.—what
care the gods for gold! let us offer that which is more worth than all
treasures, sanctos recessus animi—the heart and inward affections of
it.  It is a strange custom Benzo,
in his Historia Novi Orbis, relates of the natives there: Indi
occidentales dum sacra faciunt, dimisso in guttur bacillo, vomitum cient, ut
idolo ostendant nihil se in pectore mali occultum gerere—the West Indi­ans,
when worshipping their gods, used, by putting a little stick down their throat,
to provoke themselves to vomit, thereby showing their idol that they carried no
secret evil within them.  I should
not have named this barbarous custom but to show how deeply this notion is
engraven in the natural conscience—that we must be sincere in the worship of
God.

           Use.
Let it put us upon the trial whether we thus pray in the spirit—whether
you can find sincerity stamped on your fervency.  If the prayer be not fer­vent it cannot be sincere, but it
may have a fervour without this. 
This is a very fine sieve; approve thyself here, and thou mayest without
presumption write thy­self a saint. 
But how fervent soever thou art without sincerity, it matters not.  Nay, zeal without upright­ness is worse
than key‑cold; none will go to hell with more shame than the false-hearted
zealot, who mounts up towards heaven in the fiery chariot, a seeming zeal, but
at last is found a devil in Samuel’s mantle, and so is thrown down like
lightning from heaven, whither he would have been thought by his neighbours to
be going.  Be not loath to be
searched. Then there will then need no further search to prove thee unsound.  If God’s officer be denied entrance,
all is not right within.  Now to
help thee in the work, inquire—

 

[Rules for trying the sincerity of our
hearts in prayer.]

 

           Rule
1.  What is thy care in performing
this duty of prayer in secret? 
If thy heart be sincere, it will delight in privacy.  A false heart calls others to see his
zeal for God.  May be he is forward
to put himself upon duty where he hath spectators to applaud him, and can be
very hot and earnest at the work; but wither he is wholly a stranger to secret prayer,
or else he is cold in the performance; he finds himself be­calmed now he wants
the breath of others to fill his sails. 
The plummets are off which quickened his mo­tion, and he moves heavily
to what he did before company. 
Whereas a sincere Christian never finds more freedom of spirit, and liquefactions
of soul, than in his solitary addresses to God.  Joseph, when he would give full vent to his passion, sought
some secret place where to weep, and therefore retired himself into his
chamber, Gen.
43:30.  So the
sincere Christian goes to his closet, and there easeth his heart into the bosom
of God, and lets his passions of sor­row for sin, and love to Christ, burst
forth and have their full scope, which in public prayer he restrains —as to the
outward expression of them—out of a holy modesty, and fear of being observed by
others, which he hunts not for. Now speak, Christian, what is thy temper?  Can thy closet witness for thee in this
particular?  It is the trick of a
hypocrite to strain him­self to the utmost in duty when he hath spectators, and
to draw loose in his gears when alone; like some that carry their best meat to
market, and save the worst for their own food at home; and others that draw
their best wine to their customers, but drink the dead and flat themselves at
their own private table.

           Rule
2. Observe thyself in thy more public ad­dresses to the throne of grace:
and that in two par­ticulars.  (1.)
When thou prayest before others. 
(2.) When thou joinest with others that pray.

           (1.)
When thou prayest before others, observe on what thou bestowest thy
chief care and zeal, whether in the externals or internals of prayer—that which
is exposed to the eye and ear of men, or that which should be prepared for the
eye and ear of God; the devout posture of thy body, or the inward devo­tion of
thy soul; the pomp of thy words, or the power of thy faith; the agitation of
thy bodily spirits in the vehemency of thy voice, or the fervency of thy spirit
in heart‑breaking affections. 
These inward workings of the soul in prayer are the very soul of prayer;
and all the care about the other without this, is like the trimming bestowed
upon a dead body—that will not make the carcass sweet, nor these thy prayer to
God’s nostrils.  It is the faith,
love, brokenness of heart for sin, and the inward affections exerted in prayer,
that, like Elijah in his fiery chariot, mount up to God in the heavens, while
the other, with the prophet’s mantle, fall to the ground.  The sincere soul dares not be rude in
his outward posture.  He is careful
of his very words and phrase, that they may be grave and pertinent.  Neither would he pray them asleep that
joins with him, by a cold, dreaming, and lazy manner of delivering of it; but
still, it is the inward disposition of his heart he principally looks to,
knowing well, that by the other he is but cook to others, and may fast himself
if his own heart be idle in the duty; and there­fore he doth not count he prays
well—though to the affecting of their hearts—except he finds his own affections
drawn out in the duty.  Whereas the
hypo­crite, if he may but come off the duty with the ap­plause of others in the
external performance, is very well pleased, though he be conscious of the
deadness and naughtiness of his own heart therein.

           (2.)
When thou joinest with others that pray.  Do the gifts and graces that breathe from others in prayer
warm thy affections, and draw out thy soul to bear them company to heaven in
the petitions they put up?  Or do
they stir up a secret envying and repi­ning at the gifts of God bestowed on
them?  This would discover much
pride and unsoundness in thy spirit. The hypocrite is proud, and thinks all the
water is spilt and lost that runs beside his own mill; whereas the sincere soul
prizeth the gifts of others, can heartily bless God for them, and make a humble
and holy use of them.  His heart is
as much affected with the holy savoury requests that another puts up, as when
they come out of his own mouth. 
But the hypocrite's eye is evil, because God’s is good.

           Rule
3.  Observe whether thy
fervency in prayer be uniform. 
A false heart may seem very hot in pray­ing against one sin; but he can
skip over another, and either leave it out of his confession, or handles it
very gently.  As a partial witness,
that would fain save the prisoner’s life he comes against, will not speak all
he knows, but minceth his evidence; thus doth the hypo­crite deal with his
darling lust.  He is like one that
mows grass with a gapped scythe; some he cuts down, and other he leaves
standing; vehement against this, and favourable to that lust; whereas sincerity
makes clear work as it goes. 
‘Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over
me,’ Ps.
119:133.

           Again
the false heart is as uneven in his petitions as in his deprecations.  Very earnest he is for some mercies,
and they are commonly of an inferior nature, but more indifferent in his
desires for those that are greater; he tithes mint and cummin in his prayers
—temporal mercies, I mean—but neglects the weight­ier things of the promise—the
sanctifying graces of the Spirit, humility, heavenly-mindedness, content­ment,
self-denial; a little of these upon a knife’s point will content him.

           Rule
4.  Observe whether thy
endeavours corres­pond with thy prayers.  The false heart seems hot in prayer, but you will find him
cold enough at work.  He prays very
fiercely against his sins, as if he desired them to be all slain upon the
place; but what doth he towards the speeding of them with his own hands? Doth
he set himself upon the work of mortifica­tion? doth he withdraw the fuel that
feeds them? is he care­ful to shun occasions that may ensnare him?  When temptations come, do they find him
in arms upon his guard, resolved to resist their motion?  Alas! no such matter.  If a few good words in prayer will do
the work, well and good; but as for any more, he is too lazy to go about
it.  Whereas the sincere heart is
not idle after prayer; when it hath given heaven the alarm, and called God in
to his help, then he takes the field himself, and opposeth his lusts with all
his might, watching their motions, and taking every advantage he meets with to
fall upon them.  Every mercy he
receives, he beats it out into a weapon, to knock down all thoughts of sinning
again.  Thus, ‘Seeing that thou our
God hast punished us less than our iniquities deserve, and hast given us such
deliverance as this; should we again break thy commandments?’ Ezra 9:13, 14.  O God forbid, saith the holy soul, that
he should bid such a thought welcome! 
Every promise he reads, he lifts it up as a sword for his defence
against this enemy.  ‘Having these
promises, let us cleanse our­selves,’ II Cor. 7:1.  I shall shut up this head with a few
directions how we may get this sincere heart in prayer.

 

[How we may get this
sincerity in prayer.]

 

           (1.)
Get thy heart united by faith to Christ.  It is faith that purifies the heart from its false
principles and ends in duty.  ‘God
made man upright;’ and, while he stood so, his eye and foot went right; neither
did his eye look or his foot tread awry. 
But after Eve had talked with the serpent, she and all mankind after her
learned the serpent’s crooked motion, to look one way and go another.  ‘God hath made man upright; but they
have sought out many inventions,’ Ecc. 7:29.  O beg therefore, with David, that God
would ‘renew a right spirit within thee,’ Ps. 51:10. What the evil
spirit hath perverted the Holy Spirit alone can set right.  If the cause why a piece carries wrong
be in its make and mould, it must be new cast, or it will never carry right.  Hypocrisy in duty comes from the
falseness of man’s depraved nature; the heart therefore must be made new before
it can be sincere.  The new heart
is the single heart, ‘I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit
within you,’ Eze.
11:19.  He that
loves ‘truth in the inward parts’ can put it there.

           (2.)
Make hypocrisy in prayer appear as odious to thee as possibly thou canst;
and thou needest not dress it up in any other than its own clothes to do
this.  Consider but how grievous a
sin and how great a folly it is, and methinks it were enough to set thee
against it.

           (a)
Consider what a grievous sin it is.  A lie spoken by one man to another is a sin capable of high
aggravations; what then is that lie which is uttered in prayer to God?  Surely this must be much more hor­rid,
for here is blasphemy in the untruth. 
God spares not to give the hypocrite the lie, ‘Ephraim compas­seth me
about with lies, and the house of Israel with deceit,’ Hosea 11:12;
so many lies they told to God, as prayers they put up.  O the patience of a God that doth not
strike the hypocrite dead upon the place, while the lie is in his throat, as he
did Ananias and Sapphira.

           (b)
Consider what a great folly it is. 
[1.] As it is infeasible. 
Who but a fool can think to blind the eyes of the Almighty?  Canst thou cover the eye of the sun
with thy hand or hat, that it shall not shine? as unable art thou to hide thy
secret designs so close that the great God  should not see them. 
[2.] As it is impossible to deceive God, so thou puttest a woful
cheat upon thyself.  Thou
thinkest thou mendest the matter by praying, and thou makest it worse.  When thou comest on thy trial for thy
life, thy hypocrisy in prayer will cost thee dearer than thy other sins.  Thou takest pains to increase thy
condemnation; thou dost, as Solomon saith of another kind of hypocrite, Prov. 1:18,
‘lay wait for thy own blood; they lurk privily for thy own life.’  Of all sinners, the hypocrite hath the
precedency in God’s pur­poses and preparations of wrath.  Hell is prepared for them as the
firstborn of damnation.  Other
sinners are said to have their ‘por­tion with hypocrites,’ as the younger
brethren with their elder, who is the heir, Matt. 24:51.

           (3.)
Crucify thy affections to the world.  Hypoc­risy in religion springs from the bitter root of some
carnal affections unmortified.  So
long as thy prey lies below, thy eye will be to the earth, even when thou
seemest like an eagle to mount in thy prayers to heaven.  The false heart does uti Deo ut
fruatur mun­do—he useth religion for secular ends, and makes his seeming
piety to God but as a horsing‑block to get into the creature’s saddle.  God is in his mouth, but the world is
in his heart; which he projects to attain more easily by the reputation that
this will gain him. I have read of one that offered his prince a great sum of
money for no more but to have his leave once or twice a day to come into his
presence, and only say, ‘God save your majesty.’  The prince, wondering at this large offer for so small a
favour, asked him what this would advantage him?  O sir, saith he, this, though I have nothing else at your
hands, will get me a name in the country for one that is a great favourite at
court, and such an opinion will help me to more by the year's end than I am out
for the purchase. Thus some, it is to be feared, by the very name which they
get for great saints among their neighbours, from their acquaintance with
religious duties, do facilitate their carnal projects, and advance their
worldly interest, that lie at the bottom of all their goodly profession. Well,
Christian, this is but to play at small game—to fish for any of the world's
petty enjoyments with re­ligion’s golden hook.  As thou lovest thy soul, and wouldst not lose this for ever,
to get that which thou must lose after thou hast got it, mortify those carnal
affections which thou findest most likely to withdraw thy heart from God.  Thou knowest not God, if thou seest not
enough in him to make thee happy without the world's contributions.  This, thoroughly believed, will make
thee sincere in his service.  ‘I am
the Al­mighty God; walk before me, and be thou perfect,’ Gen. 17:1.

 

 

 

BRANCH
SECOND.

 

[He that would pray
in his own spirit,

must
pray in the Spirit of God.]

 

           Having
despatched the first importance of this phrase, ‘praying in the spirit,’
viz. the spirit of the person that prayeth, and shown that then a person prays
in the spirit when his own soul and spirit acts in the duty—when he prays
with understanding, fer­vency, and sincerity; now we proceed to the second
importance of the phrase.  To pray ‘in
the Spirit’ is to pray in, or with, the Spirit of God; ‘praying in the Holy
Ghost,’ Jude
20.  So that
the note or doctrine to be insisted on will be this,

           Doctrine.  That to right praying, it is necessary that we pray in,
or by, the Spirit of God. 
Prayer is the creature’s act, but the Spirit’s gift.  There is a concurrence both of the
Spirit of God and the soul or spirit of the Christian to the performance of
it.  Hence we find both the Holy
Spirit is said to pray in us, Rom. 8:26, and we said to pray in him, Jude 20.  By the first is meant is his
inspiration, whereby he excites and assists the creature to and in the work; by
the latter the concurrence of the saint’s faculties.  The Spirit doth not so pray in him as that the Christian
doth not exercise his own faculties in the duty, as the Familists[3]         Niclaes
gained many followers, among them the great publisher Christophe Plantin, who
surreptitiously printed a number of Niclaes’ works.  Niclaes apparently made two visits to England, where his
sect had the largest following. 
Elizabeth I issued a proclamation against the Family of Love in 1580,
and James I believed it to have been the source of Puritanism.  The sect did not survive after the
Restoration of the English monarchy in 1660, but according to George Fox, a
British preacher and the founder of the Society of Friends (or Quakers), some
remaining Familists later became associated with the Quakers.         —From
Encyclopædia Britannica. fondly conceive.  In handling this point I shall
endeavour to do these three things: First.
I shall assert the point, and prove the truth of it. Second. Explicate what it is to pray by the Spirit of
God.  Third. Make some application of the point.

           First. I shall assert the truth of the
point, that to right praying it is necessary we pray by the Spirit of God.  This is clear from Eph. 2:18, ‘Through
him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father.’  Mark those words, ‘by one Spirit.’  As there is but one Mediator to appear
and pray for us in heaven, so but one Spirit that can pray in us, and we by it,
on earth. We may as well venture to come to the Father through another Mediator
than his Son, as pray by another Spirit than by the Holy Ghost.  Therefore our Saviour, when he would
show his dislike of the disciples rash motion, he doth it by telling them, ‘Ye
know not what manner of spirit ye are of,’ Luke 9:55. As if he had
said, It behoves you to be well ac­quainted with the spirit that acts you in
prayer; if your prayers be not breathed in and out by my Holy Spirit, they are
abominable to me and my Father also. 
The name of Christ is not more necessary that the Spirit of Christ is in
prayer.  Christ’s name fits only
the Spirit's mouth; it is too great a word for any to speak as he ought, that
hath not the Spirit to help him. ‘No man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by
the Holy Ghost,’ I
Cor. 12:3. 
One may say the words without any special work of the Spirit in him, and
so may a parrot; but, to say Christ is Lord believingly, with thoughts and
affections comporting with the greatness and sweetness thereof, requires the
Spirit of God to be in his heart and tongue.  Now it is not the bare naming of Christ in prayer, and saying,
‘For the Lord’s sake,’ that procure’s our welcome with God; but saying it in
faith, and none an do this without the Spirit.  Christ is the door that opens into God’s presence, and lets
the soul into his very bosom; faith is the key that unlocks the door; but the
Spirit is he that both makes this key, and helps the Christian to turn it in
prayer, so as to get any access to God. 
You know in the law it was a sin, not only to offer ‘strange incense,’
but also to bring ‘strange fire,’ Lev. 10:1.  By the incense, which was a composition
of sweet spices appointed by God to be burned as a sweet perfume in his
nostrils, was signified the merit and satisfaction of Christ, who being bruised
by his Father’s wrath, did offer up himself a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling
savour.  By the fire that was put
to the in­cense—which also was appointed to be taken from the altar, and not
any common hearth—was signified the Spirit of God, by which we are to offer up
all our prayers and praises, even as Christ offered himself up by the eternal
Spirit.  To plead Christ’s merits
in prayer and not by the Spirit, is to bring right incense but strange fire,
and so our prayers are but smoke, of­fensive to his pure eyes, not incense, a
sweet savour to his nostrils.

           Second.  I proceed to explicate what it is to pray by the Spirit
of God.  To the better opening
of this, we must know that there are two ways that the Spirit of God helps
persons in prayer; one way is by his gifts, the other by his grace.

           First.  The Spirit of God helps in prayer by
his gifts.  Now those gifts
which he furnisheth a person with for prayer are either extraordinary or
ordinary. The extraordinary gifts of the Spirit in prayer were, in the
primitive times, shed forth, whereby the apostles and others were able in a
miraculous manner to pray as well as preach on a sudden in a language that they
never had learned.  Of this gift
interpreters under­stand that passage of Paul, ‘I will pray with the spirit,
and I will pray with the understanding also,’ I Cor. 14:15.  That is, he would make use of this
extraor­dinary gift Christ had furnished him with, but so as he might edify the
church by it, and no otherwise. 
This extraordinary gift was fitted for the infancy of the gospel church,
and ceased—as others of the like nature did—with it.  The ordinary gift of the Spirit in prayer is that special
faculty whereby persons are en­abled on a sudden to form the conceptions of
their minds and desires of their hearts into apt words be­fore the Lord in
prayer.  This is a common gift, and
is bestowed on those that are none of the best men. The hypocrite may have more
of this gift than some sincere Christian. 
It is a gift that commonly bears proportion to natural endowments, a
ready apprehen­sion, fruitful fancy, voluble tongue, and audacity of spirit,
which are all gifts of the Spirit, and do dispose a person for this.  Now we see that the head may be ripe
and the heart rotten; and, on the contrary, the heart sound and sincere where the
head is low‑parted.

           Second.
The Spirit helps in prayer by his grace. His gifts help to the outward
expression, but his grace to the inward affection.  By the gifts of the Spirit a person is enabled to take the
ear and affect the heart of men that hear him; but by the grace of the Spirit
acting a soul in prayer, he is enabled to move his own heart and the heart of
God also; and this is the man that indeed prays ‘in the Spirit.’  The other hath the gift, but
this hath the spirit, of prayer. 
Now, there is a twofold grace necessary to pray thus in the Spirit.  1. Grace from the Spirit to sanctify
the person that prays.  2. Grace to
act and assist this person sanctified in prayer.  By the first, the Spirit dwells in the soul; by the second,
he acts the soul.

           1.
There is necessary to this praying in the Spirit, grace to sanctify the
person that prays.  Before the
creature is renewed and sanctified by the Holy Ghost, it can neither apprehend
nor desire things aright.  ‘The
carnal mind receiveth not the things of God,’ nay, ‘it is enmity to God.’  And is how such a one fit to pray in an
acceptable manner?  First, then,
the Spirit renews the creature by infusing those super­natural qualities, or
habits of saving sanctifying graces, which makes him a new creature; by these
he comes to dwell and live in him, and then he acts his own graces thus
infused.  The soul is in the body
before it acts and moves it.  We
read of living in the Spirit and walking in the Spirit, Gal. 5:25:
‘If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.’  Walking supposeth life.  To pray, hear, or perform any other
holy action in a holy manner, is to walk in the Spirit; but we must live in the
Spirit, or the Spirit live in us —which is all one—before we can thus walk in
the Spirit.  There are some acts
indeed the Spirit of God puts forth upon souls that are not thus sanctified
—acts of common illumination, restraining grace, and assisting also.  Thus many hypocrites are enabled to
pray in excellent expressions.  But
he never did assist hypocrite, or any unsanctified person, to perform the
inward part of prayer, to mourn sincerely for sin, to pant after Christ and his
grace, or to cry, ‘Abba Father,’ believingly; these are the vital acts of the
new creature, and flow from a Spirit of grace infused into the soul, which
follows this ‘spirit of supplication,’ Zech. 12:10.

           2.
As habitual grace is required to sanctify the person, so actual grace to
assist him as oft as he prays. The Spirit of God may dwell in a soul by his
habitual grace, yet deny actual assistance to this or that parti­cular duty,
and then the poor Christian is becalmed, as a ship at sea when no wind is
stirring.  For as grace cannot
evidence itself, so neither can it act itself. Hence it is that sometimes the
saint’s prayers speed no better, because he is not acted by the Spirit in
it.  Samson, when his lock was cut,
was ‘weak like anoth­er man.’  A
saint, when the Spirit of God denies his help, prays no better than a carnal
man.  The Spirit of God is a free
agent: ‘Uphold me,’ saith David, ‘with thy free spirit,’ Ps. 51:12.  He is not as a prisoner tied to the
oar, that must needs work when we will have him; but, as a prince, when he
pleaseth he comes forth and shows himself to the soul, and when he pleaseth he
retires and will not be seen.  What
freer than the wind? not the greatest king on earth can command it to rise for
his pleasure; to this the Spirit of God is compared, John 3:8.  He is not only free to breathe where he
lists, in this soul and not that, but when he pleaseth also.

 

[What assistance the
Holy Ghost gives to a saint

more than to any
other in prayer.]

 

           Question.
But the question will here be, What assistance doth the Spirit of God give a
saint in prayer more than another person?

           Answer.
The assistance which the Spirit of God gives a saint in prayer above another
lies deep; it is laid out upon the inward man, and inward part of the duty.  So that a person may come to know
whether himself prays in the Spirit, but he cannot judge so easily of
another.  Now this special
assistance consists in these three particulars.

           1.
The Spirit puts forth an act of exsuscitation[4]
upon the soul, to stir up his affections.  Never was any formal prayer of the Holy Spirit’s
making.  When the Spirit comes, it
is a time of life.  The Christian’s
affections spring in his bosom at his voice, as the babe in Elizabeth at the
salutation of the Virgin Mary.  Or,
as the strings under the musician’s hand stir and speak harmoniously, so doth
all the saint’s affections at the secret touch of the Spirit.  He excite’s the saint’s fear, filling
it with such a sense of God’s great­ness, his own nothingness and baseness, as
makes him with awful thoughts reverence the divine majesty he speaks unto, and
deliver every petition with a holy trembling upon his spirit.  Such a fear was upon Abraham’s spirit,
when, in his prayer for Sodom, he expressed how great an adventure he made,
being but ‘dust and ashes, to take upon him to speak unto the Lord.’  He excites the Christian’s mourning
affec­tions.  By his divine breath
he raiseth the clouds of the saint’s past sins, and when he hath overspread his
soul in meditation with the sad remembrance of them, then in prayer he melts
the cloud, and dissolves his heart into soft showers of evangelical mourning,
that the Christian sighs and groans, weeps and mourns, like a child that is
beaten, though he sees the rod laid out of his heavenly Father’s hand, and
fears no wrath from him for them.

           The
apostle tells us the groans and sighs which the Spirit helps the saint to are
such as ‘cannot be uttered,’ Rom. 8:26; no, not by the saint himself, who,
being unable to translate the inward grief he con­ceives into words, is fain
sometimes to send it with this inarticulate voice to heaven, yet it is a voice
that is well understood there, and more musical in God’s ear than the most
ravishing music can be to ours.  In
a word, he stirs up affections suitable to every part of prayer, enabling the
gracious soul to confess sin with an aching heart, as if he felt so many swords
raking in it; to supplicate mercy and grace, as with inward feeling of his
wants, so with vehement desires to have them satisfied; and to praise God with
a heart en­larged and carried on high upon the wings of love and joy.  Parts may art it in the phrase and
composure of the words—as a statuary may carve a goodly image, with all the
outward lineaments and beautiful propor­tions in every part—but still it is but
the counterfeit and image of a true prayer, for want of that aliquid intus—something
within, which should give life and energy to it.  This the Spirit of God alone can effect.

           2.
As the Spirit of God doth excite the Chris­tian’s affections in prayer, so he regulates
and directs them.  Who indeed
but the Spirit of God can guide and rein these fiery steeds?  He is said in this respect to ‘help our
infirmities: for we know not what to pray for as we ought,’ Rom. 8:26.  We, alas! are prone to over-bend the
bow in some petitions, and want strength to bend it enough in some other.  One while we overshoot the butt,
praying absolutely for that which we should ask conditionally; another time we
shoot beside the mark, either by praying for what God hath not promised, or too
selfishly that which is promised. 
Now the Spirit helps the Christian’s in­firmity in this respect, for he
‘maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God’ ver. 27,
that is, he so holds the reins of their affections and directs them, that they
keep their right way and due order, not flying out to unwarrantable heats and
inordinate desires.  He, by his
secret whispers, instructs them when to let out their affections full speed,
and when to take them up again.  He
teacheth them the law of prayer, that striving lawfully they may not lose the
prize.  Just as the Spirit was in
the ‘living creatures’ to direct their motion, of whom it is said, ‘They went
every one straight forward: whither the Spirit was to go, they went; and they
turned not when they went,’ Eze. 1:12: so the Spirit, acting his saints in
prayer, keeps them that they lash out neither on this hand nor on that, but go
straightforward, and draw their requests by his rule.

           3.
He fills the Christian with a holy confidence and humble boldness in prayer.  Sin makes the face of God dreadful to
the sinner.  Guilty Adam shuns his
presence, and tells the reason, ‘I heard thy voice and was afraid.’  If the patriarchs—being conscious how
barbarously they had used their brother Joseph—were terrified at his presence,
and so abashed that they could not answer him; how much more confounded must
the sinner be to draw near to the great God, when he remembers the horrid sins
he hath perpe­trated against him? 
Now the Spirit easeth the Chris­tian’s heart of this fear, assuring him
that God’s heart meditates no revenge upon him, but freely forgives what wrong
he hath done him; yea, which is more, that he takes him for his dear child;
and, that the Christian may not stand in doubt thereof, he seals it with a kiss
of love upon his heart, leaving there the impression of God’s fatherly love
fairly stamped, whereby the Christian comes to have amiable thoughts of God, is
able to call God Father, and ex­pect the kind welcome of a child at his
hands.  This is the Spirit of
adoption which the apostle speaks of, that chaseth away all servile fear and
dread of God from the soul: ‘Ye have not received the spirit of bondage again
to fear; but ye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba,
Father,’ Rom.
8:15. And, ‘Because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the
Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father,’ Gal. 4:6.

 

USE
OR APPLICATION.

 

           Third. I shall make some application
of the point that it is necessary that we pray in or by the ‘Spirit of God.’

 

[Reproof of those
that mock at the need of the Spirit

in prayer, with a
trial whether we have him or no.]

 

           Use
First. Take heed of blaspheming the Holy Spirit as to this work of his
in his saints.  Some are so desperately
profane, that they dare flout and jeer at those who show any strictness in
their lives, or zeal in the worship of God, especially in this duty of prayer,
with this—‘These are they that have the Spirit, that pray, forsooth, by the
Spirit.’  Nay more—I tremble to
speak it—some have called their praying by the Spirit praying by the
devil.  That every gracious soul
hath the Spirit of God dwelling in him the Scripture tells us, ‘If any man have
not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his,’ Rom. 8:9.  That God hath promised his Spirit to
help his saints in prayer is undeniable, and that he accepts no prayer but what
is put up by his Spirit is as sure. 
Now mayest thou not know, bold wretch, what spirit thou art acted by,
who makest a mock of having the Spirit and praying by the Spirit?  Who but the devil would set thee on
work to blas­pheme the Spirit of God? 
But why should we wonder that the actings of the Holy Spirit in the
saints should be thus scorned and blasphemed, seeing we find that the Spirit of
God, working so mightily in Christ him­self, was maliciously interpreted by the
wicked Phari­sees to be from the devil? Matt. 12:24.  But let such know to their terror, that
to make a jeer of the Spirit, or to attribute his works to the devil, if it be mali­ciously
done, will be found to come near to the blas­phemy of the Spirit which is
unpardonable, see
ver. 32, ‘Whosoever speaketh a word against the Son
of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever speaketh against the Holy
Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the
world to come.’ And this our Saviour spake upon their attributing what he did
by the Spirit of God to the spirit of the devil.

           Use
Second. Try whether you have the Spirit of God or no.  A prayerless state is a sad state to
live in. Now thou canst not pray acceptably except thou prayest in the Spirit,
and thou canst not pray in the Spirit except thou hast the Spirit in thee.

           Question.
But how may I know whether I have the Spirit of God or no?

           I
shall answer.  1. Negatively,
by what thou must not conclude that thou hast the Spirit.  2. Affirma­tively, by what thou
mayest.

           Answer
1. Negatively; thou canst not know, be­cause thou hast now and then some
good motions from the Holy Spirit stirred in thee.  The evil spirit is found oft stirring
evil motions in souls where he doth not dwell.  A foul stir he makes oft in the bosom of a saint; yet dwells
not there, because he is not there per modum quietis—he finds no rest in
these dry places. Therefore he is brought in saying, ‘I will return to my
house,’ viz. to those that are yet in a carnal state, where he can rule the
roost, and command as a mas­ter doth all in his house.  Truly thus the Holy Spirit is often
moving in the consciences and affections of carnal creatures, counselling,
rebuking, and exciting them; so that, upon his suggestions, some flashy short
pangs of affections are raised in them to that which is good, but presently all
is quashed and comes to noth­ing, and the Spirit driven away by the churlish
enter­tainment he finds.

           Again,
thou canst not know by the common gifts of the Spirit, illumination,
conviction, restraining grace, and assistance to perform the external part of
religious duties, even to the admiration sometimes of others that hear
them.  These are gifts of the
Spirit, but such as do not prove he hath the Spirit that hath them.  They are like the brightness or
radiancy which we see the clouds gilt with in the morning before the body of
the sun is above the horizon—they show the sun is near, but it is not yet risen
for all this radiancy that is seen; so these gifts are beamed from the Spirit
of God, and show the kingdom of God is come nigh such a one; but they do not
demonstrate that the Spirit of God is come into that soul and taken posses­sion
of it for his house and temple.  Or
they are like the tokens which a suitor sends to a person whom he is wooing to
be his wife—the more to insinuate upon her; but the match breaking off, all are
required again. Many have these gifts sent them by the Spirit of God, with whom
the match betwixt Christ and them was never made up; and if they be not called
for back in this life, they shall however be accountable for them at the great
day.

           Answer
2. Affirmatively; by what thou mayest conclude that thou hast the Spirit of God;
and that in two particulars; though here I might multiply.

           (1.)
If thou beest regenerated by the Spirit.  The Spirit of God dwells only in a new creature.  So long as a man continues in his carnal
natural state he is destitute of the Spirit.  ‘Sensual, having not the Spirit,’ Jude 19.  The word is RLP4­6@Â,
such as have no more but a reasonable soul, without a higher principle of life
than nature gives to all men.  St.
Paul useth the word to set out a man in his mere naturals, as op­posed to
another that hath a principle of supernatural life from the Spirit of God; RLP46ÎH
•<¬D, ‘the natural man receiveth not the
things of the Spirit,’ I
Cor. 2:14. 
But here the question will be, How shall I know I am regenerate?  To this I answer, Every re­generate
soul hath divinam indolem—a di­vine nature and disposition like unto the
Spirit of God that re­generates him. 
‘That which is born of the Spirit is spirit,’ John 3:6,
viz. is spiritual, the abstract being put for the concrete, to increase the
force of the words. He hath a soul raised as far above natural men as they are
above the nature of beasts.  When
Nebuchadnez­zar had the understanding of a man given him he grazed no longer
among the beasts of the field, but returned to his princely throne and
life.  Thus the re­generate soul
returns to that high and heavenly disposition which man in his primitive holy
state once had.  Now God and the
things of God take up his thoughts; he hath a new eye to see vanity where
before he placed felicity; a new gust and taste, which makes him spit out those
sinful pleasures as poison that once were pleasant morsels, and count all
earthly enjoyments, that before were his only feast, but dung and dross in
comparison of Christ and his grace. 
He can no more make a meal on them than a man can with dogs' meat.  ‘They that are after the flesh do mind
the things of the flesh; but they that are after the Spirit the things of the
Spirit,’ Rom.
8:5, ND@<@ØF4<,
they do sapere, savour the things of the Spirit.  Find therefore what thy gust is, and
thou say­est know what thy life is, whether spiritual, or natural.

           (2.)
If thou beest led by the Spirit. 
The Spirit is the saints’ guide, ‘As many as are led by the Spirit of
God, they are the sons of God,’ Rom. 8:14.  As the soul is in the body, to direct and move it, so is the
Spirit in their soul: ‘Thou hast holden me by my right hand, thou shalt guide
me with thy counsel,’ Ps.
73:23, 24. 
Even as the child is led by his father’s hand, so the saint by the
manuduction of the Spirit.  Now, to
be led by the Spirit of God imports these three things:

           (a)
A sense of our own weakness and ignorance. He that thinks he knows his
way, or that he is able to direct his own steps, will not accept of a guide.  It is the weak child or the blind man
that calls to be led. First Saul was struck blind, and then he gives his hand
to be led to Damascus, Acts
9.  Inquire
therefore whether God hath made thee sensible of thy own ig­norance and
impotency.  Man by nature is proud
and self-conceited; he leans much to his own under­standing, and stands upon
his own strength, very loath to be thought out of the way or unable to go of
himself in it.  ‘A wise man
feareth, and departeth from evil: but the fool rageth, and is confident,’ Prov. 14:16.  Tell a soul spiritually wise he is out
of his way, he fears himself, hearkens to the counsel, and turns back; but a
fool—and such is every carnal man—he falls out with him that counsels or
reproves him, and is confident he is right, as if he knew the way to heaven as
well as he doth the way from his house to the market.  The first thing that the Spirit doth is to dismount the soul
from his high opinion he hath of himself, thereby to make him teachable and
tractable.  ‘Men and brethren,’ say
those converts, after God with one prick in their hearts had let out this wind
of pride, ‘what shall we do?’ Acts 2:37.  Their spirit now comes down, willing they are to be
directed, so meek and humble that a child may lead them.

           (b)
He that is led by another is ruled and deter­mined by him that is his guide
which way he should go. 
Inquire, there­fore, whether the Spirit of God doth thus determine thy
soul in its actings and mo­tions. 
If thou beest led by the Spirit, thou walkest after the Spirit, and
goest the way he goes.  Now you
know which is the Spirit’s walk. 
He is a Spirit of truth and leads into truth.  The word of God is the road he keeps; if thou walkest not by
this rule he is not thy guide. 
Speak therefore, what authority and sway bears the word with thee?  Dost thou consult with it and hearken
to it? or is it to thee as Micaiah was to Ahab, art thou afraid to advise with
it?  Or, when thou dost, canst thou
cast its counsel at thy heels, and venture to break its hedge, to pursue thy
ambitious or covetous projects?  If
a word lying in thy way will not stop thee, thou art not led by the Spirit of
God thou mayest be sure.

           (c)
To be led imports spontaneity and willing­ness.  This is the difference betwixt leading
and driv­ing.  The carnal heart may
be driven by the rebukes and convictions of the Spirit, as a beast by switch
and spur; but the gracious soul follows the Spirit as a child his father that
holds him by the hand, yea, that cries after his father to take him along with
him.  ‘Where the Spirit of the Lord
is, there is liberty.’  The Spirit
indeed ‘draws,’ but then the soul ‘runs after him.’ Mary chose the ‘better
part;’ it was not imposed on her against her liking. The obedience of the
saints is compared to a sacrifice, ‘Present your bodies a living sacrifice,’
&c., Rom.
12:1; and it is no acceptable sacrifice that is not offered
willingly.  The Spirit of God makes
the soul ‘willing in the day of his power.’ ‘I will go with this man,’ said
Rebekah; she was as willing to have Isaac as he to have her.  The gracious soul answers the Spirit's
call as the echo the voice: ‘Seek ye my face.  Thy face, Lord, will I seek.’  Now, this use of trial calls for a double word of
exhortation.

 

[Exhortation to those
who

want
the Spirit of prayer.]

 

           1.
O labour to get this heavenly guest to come and dwell in your hearts.  Better it were thou hadst not the
spirit of a man than to want the Spirit of God. If the Holy Spirit be not in
thee, assure thyself the evil spirit is; and no way is there for thee to turn
this troublesome guest out of doors but by getting the Spirit of God in.  Thou mayest know where thy eter­nal  mansion will be, in heaven or hell,
hereafter, by the spirit that fills and acts thy soul here.  If God takes not up thy soul as a mansion
for his Spirit on earth, it shows that he prepares no mansion for thy soul in
heaven, but leaves thee to be entertained by him in the other world that is thy
guest in this.  Thus thou seest how
thy soul hangs over the infernal pit. What course canst thou take to prevent
this thy end­less misery that is coming upon thee?  Wilt thou stand up as Haman to make request for the life of
thy soul?  Alas! thou canst not
pray though thy life lies on it; thou wantest the Spirit of God that should
help thee to groans and sighs; thou must live before thou canst breathe.  Prayer, you see, is not a work of na­ture,
but a gift of grace; not a matter of will and parts, got by human skill and
art, but taught and inspired by the Holy Ghost.  At the bar of man the orator’s tongue may so smooth over a
cause as to carry it. Rhetoric hath a kind of spell in it that charms the ears
of men, he is called the ‘the eloquent ora­tor,’ {Hebrew Characters Omitted}—nekÇn
l~chash—he
that is skilful in a charm, Isa. 3:3.  Thus Abigail charmed David’s passion with a well-set speech,
and returned his sword into his scabbard that was drawn to cut off her husband
and his family.  But words, alas!
how handsomely soever they chime, make no music in God’s ear; they avail no more
with him when his Holy Spirit is not with them, than Esau’s prayers and tears
did with old Isaac for the blessing. 
The same rod which wrought miracles in Moses’ hand would have done no
such thing in the hand of another, because not acted with the Spirit that Moses
had.  The same words put up in
prayer by a man’s own private spirit are weak and ineffectual, yea, distasteful
and abomin­able; which, delivered by the Spirit of God in another, are mighty
with God and exceedingly acceptable to him.  Kings have their cooks, and eat not but what is dressed by
their hands.  The great God, I am
sure, will not like that sacrifice which his Spirit doth not prepare and
offer.  Those prayers which are
highly es­teemed and applauded by men are sometimes a great abomination to the
Lord, who sees the heart to be naught and wholly void of his Spirit and
grace.  And on the contrary, those
prayers which are despised and harshly censured by man may be highly pleasing
to God.  Eli was offended with
Hannah and took her for a drunken woman; but God knew her better, that she was
not drunk with wine, but filled with the Spirit in prayer, and therefore
answered graciously her request. It was wisely done of that Grecian, who, being
sent ambassador to a foreign prince, studied the language of the country that
he might the more effectually per­suade the king by delivering his embassy in
his own tongue.  O, get thou the
Spirit of God, that thou may­est pray to God in the language of heaven, and no
fear but thou shalt speed.  Now, if
thou wouldst obtain the Spirit,

           (1.)
Labour to be deeply sensible of thy deplor­able state while without the
Spirit.  An unsavoury sap­less
creature thou art, God knows, unable for any duty, incapable of any
comfort.  The Spirit is oft in
Scripture compared to water, rain, and dew.  Now, as the earth is barren and can bring forth no fruit
with­out these, so is the heart of man without the Spirit of God.  O get thy soul affected with this!  When the fields are burned up for want
of rain, man and beast make a moan; yea, the very earth itself, cleft with
drought, by opening its thirsty mouth expresseth its extreme need of some kind
showers from the heavens to refresh it. 
And hast thou no sense of thy woeful condition?  Which is worse, thinkest thou—to have
the earth iron or thy  heart stone?
that the fruits and beasts of the field should perish for want of water, or thy
soul for want of the Spirit?  O
couldst thou but be brought to lament thy want, there were hope for hav­ing it
supplied.  ‘For I will pour water
upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground.  I will pour my Spirit upon thy seed,’ Isa. 44:3.

           (2.)
When thou art inwardly scorched with the sense of thy spiritless graceless
condition, go and ear­nestly beg this gift of God.  Now thou goest in a good time and
mayest hope to speed.  Possibly
thou hast heretofore prayed for the Spirit, but so slightily and indifferently
that thou hast grieved his Spirit while thou hast been praying for him.  But now thou seest thy need of him, and
thyself undone except thou may­est get him; and therefore, I hope, thou wilt
not now shut the door upon thy own prayers by being a cold suitor; which if
thou dost not, thou art sure to bring him away with thee.  Christ himself assures thee as
much.  Take it from his own mouth,
‘If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how
much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask
him?’ Luke
11:13.  A fa­ther
may deny his wanton child bread to play with and throw under his feet, but not
his starving child that cries for bread to preserve his life.  God can, and will, deny him that asks
the Spirit to pride himself with his gifts, but not the hungry soul, that
pinched with his want of grace, humbly yet vehemently cries, ‘Lord, give me thy
Spirit, or else I starve, I die.’ 
Nay, let me tell thee, thy strong cries and earnest prayers for the
Spirit would be a sweet evidence to thee that thou hast him already within
thee.

           (3.)
Plant thyself under the word preached.  This is vehiculum Spiritus—the Spirit’s chariot in
which he rides, called therefore ‘the ministration of the Spirit.’  The serpent, that evil spirit, wriggled
into Eve's heart by her ear; and the Holy Spirit ordinarily enters in at the same
door, for he is received ‘by the hearing of faith,’ Gal. 3:2.  They that cast off hear­ing the word to
meet with the Spirit do as if a man should turn his back off the sun that it
may shine on his face. The poor do not stay at home for the rich to bring their
alms to their house, but go to their door and there wait for relief.  It becomes thee, poor creature, to wait
at the posts of wisdom, and not expect the Spirit should lacquey after
thee.  If the master come to the
truant scholar’s house it is to whip him to school.

           (4.)
Take heed of resisting the Spirit when he makes his approaches to thee in
the word.   Some­times he
knocks, and, meeting a repulse, goes from the sinner’s door.  This is dangerous.  He that hath promised to come in if we
open, hath not promised to come again though we unkindly send him away. He doth
indeed oft return after repulses; but sometimes, to show his liberty, he doth
not, nay, leaves a padlock, as I may so say, on the door, a judiciary hardness
and unbelief, which no minister’s key can open.  Thus Christ dealt with them that so mannerly excused
themselves to his messengers that invited them. ‘None of those men which were
bidden shall taste of my supper,’ Luke 14:24.  Doth the Spirit move on thy heart in an
ordinance?  Haply it is by some
secret re­bukes directing the minister’s finger unawares to touch thy sore
plat.  O beware how thou now
behavest thyself towards the Spirit. 
Quarrel not with the preacher, as if he had a spite against thee and
came for a spy to find out the nakedness of thy soul.  Strug­gle not with thy convictions, smother not the motions
of the Holy Spirit in thy next pillow at night, but rather cherish and improve
them.  It is no little mercy that,
as the Spirit went by in his chariot, he would call at thy door and give thee
so merciful a warning, which, if kindly received, may bring on a treaty of
peace betwixt God and thee that may end in thy con­version here and salvation
hereafter.  It heightened the
favour which God bestowed on the widow of Sar­epta that there were many other
widows in Israel at the same time, but the prophet was sent to her and not to
them.  So it enhanceth this mercy
vouchsafed to thee, that there should be many other sinners in the
congregation, and yet the Spirit not sent to them, but to thee; that his arrows
should fly over their heads, and be shot at thy window with a secret mes­sage
from heaven, to rouse thy sleepy conscience and woo thy affections from sin to
Christ.  Verily the king­dom of
heaven is come nigh unto thee.  Be
but friendly to these his motions and thou shalt have more of his company.

           (5.)
Converse with the saints that have the Spirit of God in them.  They that would learn a foreign lan­guage
associate with men of that country whose na­tural tongue it is.  Wouldst thou have the Spirit, and so
learn to speak to God in heaven’s language?  Con­sort with those who by reason of their heavenly nature
will be speaking of God and the things of God unto thee.  It is true, they cannot derive and
propagate this their spiritual nature; but it is as true, that the Spirit of
God may make the gracious discourses which they breathe forth vital and
quickening to thee.  While thou art
with such, thou walkest in the Spirit’s com­pany.  Joseph and Mary sought Christ among his kin­dred, supposing
it most likely to find him among them. 
And it is more probable to find the Spirit of Christ among the saints,
his spiritual kindred, than among strangers.  The Spirit of God came upon Saul when among the prophets; at
the hearing of them prophesy and praise God, his spirit was moved also to do
the same.  Who knows but thy heart
may be warmed at their fire, and from the savour of their graces be drawn
thyself to the love of holiness? 
But, above all, take heed of profane company; this is a great quencher
to the Spirit’s work.  When David
re­solves for God and a holy life, he packs the wicked from him: ‘Depart from
me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God,’ Ps. 119:115.  The husbandman busheth his young plants
about to keep the cattle off.  If
there be any buddings and puttings forth of the Spirit of grace in thee, as
thou wouldst not have all cropped and bit off, choose not men of a profane
spirit for thy associates.  They
are like the north wind that blows away the rain.  When the Spirit of God hath been moving on a soul, the
clouds begin to gather in his bosom, and some hopes of a shower of repentance
to follow; then comes wicked company and drives all these clouds away, till
there be no show left upon his heart of what before there was great hopes.

 

[Exhortation to those
who by the rules of trial

find
the Spirit of God is in them.]

 

           2.
To the saints; the word I have for you is to be­seech you not to
grieve or quench the Holy Spirit in your bosoms. Thou canst not fadge to
live long with­out prayer if a saint, nor art thou able to pray to pur­pose
without him.  When he withdraws,
thy hand presently will forget its cunning.  Such a chillness will invade thy soul, that thou wilt have
little list to pray, for it is he that stirs thee up to the duty; and if thou
creepest to it, thou wilt not be warm in the work, for it is his divine breath
that must make thy green-wood burn, thy affections enkindle.  Clothes do not warm the body, till the
body warm them; and the body cannot warm them, except the soul, which is the
prin­ciple of life, warm it.  If
there be no warmth in the heart, there can be no fervency in the prayer; and
without the Spirit of God—who is the Christian’s soul and what his soul is to
his body—no kindly heat can be in the soul.  O take heed therefore thou dost not grieve him, lest being
distasted he refuse to assist thee. 
Now three ways the Spirit of God may be dis­tasted by a saint, so as to
cause him to deny his wonted assistance in prayer.

           (1.)
By some sin secretly harboured in the heart. ‘If I regard iniquity in my
heart, the Lord will not hear me,’ Ps. 66:18.  Now when God refuseth to hear, we may
be sure the Spirit refuseth to assist, for God never rejects a prayer that his
Spirit indites and his Son presents. 
Sin is so offensive to the Holy Spirit, that wherever it is bid welcome
he will show his dis­taste.  If you
would have this pure dove stay with you, be sure you keep his lodging
clean.  Hast thou defiled thyself
with any known sin? think not to have him help thee in prayer till he hath
helped thee to repent of it.  He
will carry thee to the laver before he go with thee to the altar.  The musician wipes his instrument that
hath fallen into the dirt before he will set it to his mouth.  If thou wouldst have the Spirit of God
breathe in thy soul at prayer, present it not to him be­smeared with any sin
unrepented of.

           (2.)
By frequent resisting or putting off his motions.  As the Spirit helps in prayer, so he
stirs up to prayer; he is the saint's remembrancer and moni­tor: ‘He shall
bring all things,’ saith Christ of the Spirit, ‘to your remembrance,’ John 14:26.  God called Jacob up to Bethel, so the
Spirit prompts the saint to duty. 
Such a mercy thou hast received—up, Chris­tian, praise thy God for it
while it is fresh in thy mem­ory and warm in thy heart.  Such a temptation lies before thee—go
pray thou mayest not be led into it. Thy God waits for thy company, and expects
thy attendance; now is a fit time for thy withdrawing thyself to hold communion
with him, and pay thy homage to him. 
Now, when the Christian shall shift off these motions and not take the
hint he gives, but from time to time neglect his counsel, and discon­tinue his
acquaintance with God, notwithstanding these his mementos, he is exceedingly
distasted, and, taking himself to be slighted, he gives over calling upon him,
and leaves the soul for a time, till his ab­sence, and the sad consequences of
it, bring him to see his folly, and prepare him to entertain his mo­tions more
kindly for the future.  Thus Christ
leaves the spouse in her bed, when she would not rise at his knock, and makes
her trot after him with many a weary step before he will be seen of her.  It is just that God should raise the
price of his mercy, when we may have it at an easy rate and will not.  Christ thrice calls up his drowsy
disciples to ‘watch and pray,’ that they might not ‘enter into temptation,’ but
finds them still asleep when he comes; what saith he then?  Truly he bids them ‘sleep on,’ as if he
had said, ‘Take your course and see what will become of it.’  Indeed they soon saw it to their
sorrow, for they all presently fell into that very temptation which their
master had so seasonably alarmed them by prayer to prevent, and this waked them
to purpose.

           (3.)
By priding ourselves in and with the assis­tances he gives.  Pride is a sin that God resists wher­ever
he meets with it; for indeed it is a sin that justles with God himself for the
wall.  It is time for the Spirit to
be gone when his house is left over his head.  He takes it as a giving him warning to be gone, when the
soul lifts up itself into his seat; if he may not have the honour of the work
he will have no hand in it.  Now
the proud man makes the Spirit an underling to him­self, he useth his gifts to
set up himself with them. Three ways pride discovers itself in prayer, and all
to be resisted if we mean to have the Spirit’s company.

           (a)
When the creature ascribes the Spirit’s work to himself, and sets his own
name upon the duty, where he should write the Spirit’s; like Caligula, who
set the figure of his own head on the statue of Jupiter. Instead of blessing
God for assisting, he applauds himself, and hath a high opinion of his own
abilities, pleasing himself with what expressions and enlarge­ments of
affection he had in the duty.  This
is plain felony, a sin which every gracious soul must needs tremble at.  Church robbery is a great wickedness: O
what then is spirit robbery!  ‘I
live,’ saith Paul, ‘yet not I,’ Gal. 2:20.  ‘I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but
the grace of God which was with me,’ I Cor. 15:10.  Thus shouldst thou, Christian, say, ‘I
prayed, yet not I; I laboured and wrestled, yet not I, but the Spirit of God
that was with me.’  Ap­plaud not
thyself, but humbly admire the grace and dignation of God, to help such a poor
creature as thou art.  Thus David
did: ‘Who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to offer so
willingly after this sort? for all things come of thee, and of thine own have
we given thee,’ I
Chr. 29:14. 
That steward deserves to be put out of his office, that brags of his
master’s money as his own.

           (b)
When we go to duty in confidence of the gifts and grace we have already
received, and do not ac­knowledge our dependence on the Spirit, by casting
ourselves after all our preparations upon him for present assistance.  As we must pray by the Spirit, so we
must ask for him that we may pray by him: ‘How much more shall your heavenly
Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him,’ Luke 11:13.  And it is not once asking for all will
serve the turn.  Thou mayest have
his help in the morning and want it at night, if thou dost not humbly ask again
for his aid.  You know how Samson
was served when he thought to go out as he used to do.  Alas! poor man, the case was altered,
he was weak as water; the Spirit was gone and he had carried away his strength
with him.  God will have thee, O
Christian, know the key to thy heart hangs at his girdle, and not thy own, that
thou shouldst be able to open and enlarge it at thy pleasure.  Acknowledge God, and his Spirit shall
help thee; but ‘lean to thy own understanding,’ and thou art sure to catch a
fall. When pride is in the saddle, shame is in the crupper; if pride be at the
beginning of a duty, shame will be at the end of it.

           (c)
When we rely on our prayers, and not en­tirely on Christ’s mediation, for
acceptance and audi­ence; this is pride with a witness, and highly deroga­tory
to the honour of Christ.  God
indeed accepts the saints in prayer, but not for their prayer, but for Christ’s
sake.  Now the Spirit, who is
Christ’s messen­ger, will not, you may be sure, give his assistance to rob
Christ of his glory.  When he helps
thee to pray, if thou wouldst harken to his voice, thou mayest hear him calling
thee out of thyself, and confidence of thy prayers, to rely wholly on the
mediation of Christ.  Wrong Christ,
and you are sure to grieve his Spirit.

 

 

 

 

Division
Fourth.—The Guard of Prayer.

 

‘And
watching thereunto.’

 

           These
words present us with the fourth branch in the apostle’s directory for prayer,
which I called prayer’s guard. 
Prayer to the saints is as the great artillery to an army—of great use
to defend them, and of as great force to do execution upon their enemies; it
therefore needs the stronger guard to be set about it, lest it be taken from
them, or turned against them by the enemy.  Now the guard which the Spirit of God here appoints this
great ordinance of prayer, is watching—‘watching thereunto.’  Watching is either or improper, literal
or metaphorical.  First. Watching, literally taken, is an
affection of the body.  But, Second. Watching is taken metaphorically
for the vigilancy or watchfulness of the soul.

 

[The duty of watching
unto prayer.]

 

           First. Watching, literally taken, is
an affection of the body.  That
only can properly be said to watch which is subject to sleep; and so the body
is, but not the soul.  Thus, to
watch in a religious sense is a vol­untary denying of our bodies sleep, that we
may spend either the whole or part of the night in pious exercises.  Thus the Jews kept the night of the
pass­over holy, Ex.
12:42.  Our
Saviour oft spent the night in prayer, Matt. 14:23; 26:38.  We find Paul treading in his Lord and
Master’s steps, ‘In watchings, in fast­ings,’ II Cor. 6:5.  Many a sweet spiritual junket holy
David’s devout soul got in the night, when others lay in their bed: ‘My soul
shall be satisfied as with mar­row and fatness,...when I remember thee upon my
bed, and meditate on thee in the night watches,’ Ps. 63:5, 6.
No doubt, for a devout soul, upon some extra­ordinary occasions—so superstition
be avoided and health regarded—thus to watch unto prayer is not only laudable
but delectable.  Vig­iliæ in
quantum val­etudinem non perturbant, si orando, psal­lendo, le­gendo sumantur,
in delicias spirituales convertuntur —happy soul, that can thus steal in
the dark into the arms of his beloved, and watch for devotion while others
watch to do mischief or fill themselves with impure delights (Augustinus).  This is the Christian, whose soul, like
Gideon’s fleece, shall be filled with the dews and influences of heaven above
others.  But,

           Second. Watching is taken metaphorically
for the vigilancy or watchfulness of the soul.  This is principally meant here, and in other scriptures,
where we are commanded to watch, Mark 13:35; Rev. 16:15; I Thes. 5:6; I Peter
5:8; cum multis aliis—with many others.  Now we shall the better understand what
duty is imposed upon the Christian under this word [watching], if we consider
what bodily watching is. Two things it imports—waking and working.  When a man wakes in the night to attend
some business then to be done, such a one only truly watcheth; a man that
sleeps not in the night, but to no purpose, for no business he hath to
despatch, he may be said to wake but not to watch, for this relates to some em­ployment
he hath in charge to look to.  Thus
the shepherds are said to ‘keep watch over their flock by night,’ Luke 2:8,
and the disciples ‘watched’ with Christ while they sat up to wait on him the
night before his passion, Matt.
26:40.  So that,
for a Christian to watch in a spiritual sense is to preserve his soul awake
form sin in the height of this world, that he may keep the Lord’s charge and do
the duty imposed upon him as a Christian. 
Now prayer being one principal duty he is to attend and intend with all
his might, therefore watching is very often joined with it, Matt. 26:41; Mark
13:33; Luke 21:36; Col. 4:2; I Peter 4:7.  In handling this duty of watching unto
prayer, I shall show, First. Why the Christian is to watch unto
prayer.  Second.  Wherein the duty of watchfulness, in
reference to prayer, consists.  Third.
I shall set the Christian’s watch for him, by giving some little counsel and
help towards his performing this duty of watchfulness; for it is not a
temporary duty, but for his whole lifetime.

 

[Why the Christian is to watch unto
prayer.]

 

           First.  I shall show why the Christian is to
watch unto prayer.

           1.
Reason.  Because of the importance
of the du­ty of prayer.  No one
action doth a Christian meet with in his whole life of greater weight and
moment than this of prayer is; and that in regard of God or himself.

           (1.)
In regard of God.  Prayer is
an act of religious worship; we have immediately to do with the great God, to
whom we approach in prayer.  Now
reli­gion is as tender as the eye; it is not a thing to be played with or
handled without great care and heed­fulness.  Prayer is too sacred a duty to be performed between sleeping
and waking, with a heavy eye or a drowsy heart.  This God complained of, ‘There is none that calleth upon thy
name, that stirreth up himself to take hold of me,’ Isa. 64:7.  He counts it no prayer where the heart
is not stirred up and awake. No way can we more honour or dishonour God than in
prayer.  O how then ought we to
watch to this duty!

           (2.)
Again, in regard of ourselves; for our beha­viour in prayer hath a
universal influence into all the passages of our whole life.  As a man is in this duty so he likely
to be in all the rest.  If careless
in praying, then slighty in hearing, loose in his walking; he shall find that
he miscarries in all his enterprises, is en­snared in all his enjoyments,
baffled with every temp­tation, and discomposed at every affliction that meets
him.  And the reason of all this
is—because our strength both to do and suffer comes from God.  Now God communicates his assistance to
his children in a way of communion with them.  They ask, and they have; they seek, and find; knock, and the
treasury of mercy is opened to them. 
Prayer is the channel in which the stream of divine grace, blessing, and
com­fort runs from God the fountain into the cistern of their hearts.  Dam up the channel and the stream is
stopped.  If the stomach doth not
its office all the members want their nourishment.  If the trade fails in the shop there is but a poor house
kept within.

           2.
Reason. Watchfulness is of as great impor­tance to prayer as prayer
is to all our other duties. No duty can be despatched well without prayer,
nor prayer without watching; for it is not prayer, but prayer performed in a
holy spiritual manner, that is effectual. 
Now, this cannot be done when the 
is off his watch.  Take the
Christian a napping, with his grace in a slumber, and he is no fitter to pray
than a man is to work that is asleep. 
Whatever a man is doing, sleep, when it comes, puts an end to it.  Sleep is the great leveller of the
world, it makes all men alike.  The
strong man is as unable to defend himself from an enemy in his sleep as the child.  The rich man asleep and the poor man
are alike; he enjoys his estate no more than if he had none.  Thus the Chris­tian, while his graces
are asleep, is even like another that hath no grace—as to the present use of
them, I mean—he will pray as the carnal man doth, enjoy God no more in the duty
than such a one would do. O how sad is this! and yet how prone are we to give
way unto this drowsiness of spirit in prayer!  It creeps insensibly upon the soul, as sleep doth upon the
body; the heart is gone before the Christian is well aware.  The more need therefore there is to
watch against it.

           3.
Reason.  Because Satan is
so watchful against prayer, therefore it behoves the Christian to watch
unto prayer.  Where should the
strongest guard be set but where the enemy maketh his fiercest assault? This is
the fort he batters and labours with all his might to beat the Christian from,
well knowing the shot which gall him most come out of it.  What he doth otherwise against the
Christian is on a design to hinder his prayers, I Peter 3:7,
as an enemy falls upon one part of the city to draw their forces from another
place which he chiefly desires to gain. 
Indeed the soul never falls fully into his hands till it throws up this
duty.  ‘Pray that ye enter not into
temptation.’ Sometimes the city is taken, and the enemy is forced back again,
by those in the castle which commands the city.  Prayer is like such a castle.  Sometimes the Christian hath nothing left him but a spirit
of prayer, and with this he beats back the devil out of all his advantages, and
wrings out of his hands his new-gotten victories.

 

[Wherein watchfulness unto prayer
consists.]

 

           Second.
The second thing I promised was to show wherein the Christian is to express
his watchful­ness in reference to this duty of prayer.  Take it in these three
particulars.  1. He is to watch
before prayer.  2. He is to watch
in prayer.  3. He is to watch after
prayer.

           1.
The Christian is to show his watchfulness be­fore prayer; and that,

           (1.)
By watching for the fit season to pray in. We cannot be always on our
knees.  We may serve God all
the day, but worship him we cannot; this is a duty that requires some set times
for its exercises.  Now it is our
duty to watch for the season of prayer as the merchant watcheth for the exchange
hour; he orders his other occasions so that by no means he may miss that.  Thus the Christian should endeavour to
dispose his occasions so that his devotions be not shut out or crowded up into
straits of time by his improvidence; no, nor interfere with other necessary
duties.  Many a fair child is lost
by an untimely birth, and good duty spoiled by being unseasonably performed.

           (2.)
By keeping a strict watch over himself in his whole course.

           (a)
By shunning all that may defile his con­science, and so render him
unmeet for communion with God. 
Thus the priest was to watch himself that he touched no unclean thing,
God thereby signifying that he will have them to be holy in their lives that
approach near to him in the duties of his worship.

           (b)
By a holy care to observe and lay up the most remarkable passages of God’s
providence to him, as also the frame and behaviour of his own heart to God
all along the interval between prayer and prayer.  The want of this part of watchfulness is the cause why we are
so jejune and barren in the performance of this duty.  It is no wonder that he should want matter for his prayer at
night, and trifle in it with impertinences, who did not treasure up what passed
in the day be­twixt God and him. 
Though the minister be not mak­ing his sermon all the week, yet by
observing in his other studies what may be useful for him in that work, he is
furnished with many hints that help him when he goes about it.  Such an advantage the Christian will
find for prayer by laying up the remarkable in­stances of God’s providences to
him and of his carriage to God again under them; these will furnish him with
necessary materials for the performance. The bag is filling while the kine are
feeding or chewing the cud, and accordingly yields more plentily when milked at
night.  Truly thus it is here.  That Christian must needs be most
fruitful and plentiful in his devotions, when he comes to pour out his heart to
God in prayer, that hath been thus filling it all the day with meditations
suitable and helpful to the duty. Would he praise God?  He hath the preservations,
deliverances, and assistances which God hath given into him at hand, in the
commonplace‑book of his memory, which another hath lost for want of writing
them down in this book of remembrance. 
Would he humbly confess the sins of the day?  He presently recalls, ‘In this company I forgat myself and
spake unadvisedly with my lips; in that enjoyment I ob­served my heart to be
inordinate; this duty I omitted; that I was remiss and negligent in
doing.’  Now what a wonderful help
hath such a soul above another that walks at random to get his soul into a
melting mourn­ful frame?  The eye
affects the heart.  The presence of
the object actuates the affection. 
The sight of an enemy stirs up anger; the sight of a dear friend excites
love, and puts a man into a sudden ravishment —whom, may be, he should not have
thought on, if he had not seen him. 
How can they mourn for the sins of the day at night who remember them no
more than Nebuchadnezzar his dream?

           (c)
By the frequent exercise of ejaculatory prayer.  He doth not watch to pray that never
thinks on God but when he is on his knees; for, by this long discontinuing his
acquaintance with God, he indis­poseth himself for the more solemn addresses of
his soul to him.  Long fasting
takes away the stomach. The Christian will find that the oftener he is refresh­ing
his spirit with those little sips and short gusts of heaven, the larger draught
he will be able to take when he returns to his set meal of morning and even­ing
prayer.  For, by the means of these
he will be se­cured from worldly affections, which exceedingly deaden the
heart, and also be seasoned and prepared for further communion with God.  These short walks often taken keep the
soul in breath for a longer journey.

           2.
The Christian must watch in prayer.  It is not enough to watch the child that he goes to school,
but the master’s eye must watch him in school; to be idle at school is as bad
as to truant from it.  Thou dost
well, Christian, to take care of thyself before prayer, and to see that the
duty be not omitted; but wilt thou now leave it at the school-door?  Truly then all thy former care is to
little purpose.

           (1.)
Thou must watch thy outward man, and rouse that up from sleep and sloth.
 If the body be heavy-eyed in
prayer the soul must needs be heavy-heeled; the pen drops out of the writer’s
hand when he falls asleep.  ‘Watch
and pray,’ saith Christ to his disciples; he knew that they could not do that
work nodding.  And yet, how many do
we see at the very time of prayer in our congregations so far from watch­ing,
in this sense, that they invite sleep to come upon them by laying themselves in
a lazy posture?  Cer­tainly,
friends, communion with God is worth keep­ing our eyes open.  Little do these drones think what
contempt they cast upon God and his ordinance.  I wonder any can sleep at the worship of God and not dream
of hell‑fire in their sleep.  But
it is not enough to keep thy awaked, if thou sufferest it to wander. ‘Turn away
mine eyes,’ saith David, ‘from beholding vanity; and quicken thou me in thy
way,’ Ps.
119:37.

           (2.)
Thou must watch thy soul in prayer.  The soul is the man, and the soul in prayer is the very soul
of prayer.  Watch what its ends and
aims are, that it shoots not beside the mark.  Watch what strength and force thy soul puts to the
work.  Our prayers miscarry by
shooting short as well as wide.  In
a word, thou must keep thy heart with all diligence from one end of the duty to
the other, or else it will give thee the slip before thou art aware.  How oft, alas! do our souls begin to
speak with God in prayer, and on a sudden fall a chatting with the world!  One while, our hearts are warm at the
work, and we pursue hard after God with full cry of our affections; but in­stantly
we are at a loss and hunt cold again. 
Holy David was sensible of this, and therefore we have him in the midst
of this duty begging help from God to call in his gadding heart: ‘Unite my
heart to fear thy name,’ Ps.
86:11.

           3.  The Christian is to watch after
prayer.

           (1.)
By calling his soul to a review concerning the duty, how it was
performed by him.  God himself,
when he had finished the works of creation, looks back upon them, ‘And God saw
every thing that he had made,’ Gen. 1:31; that is, he viewed his work, as an
artist would do a piece he had drawn. He hath given us all a faculty to reflect
upon our actions, and looks we should use it, yea, complains of those that do
not ‘consider their ways and doings.’ 
Many duties de­pend upon this. 
He that looks not back how he prayed, can he be humbled for the sins
that cleaved to it?  And will God
pardon what he takes no care to know, that he may show his repentance for them?  Or will he mend those faults in the
next prayer which he found not out in the former?  No, but rather increase them.  We need not water weeds; let them but stand unplucked up and
they will grow alone.  This is the
sluggard whose soul will soon run into a wilderness, and be overgrown with
those sins in prayer, which at last may choke the very spirit of supplication
in him.

           (2.)
By observing what is the issue and success of his prayer.  As he is to look back and see how he
prayed, so forward to observe what return he finds of his prayer.  To pray, and not watch what becomes of
our prayer, is a great folly and no little sin; like chil­dren that throw
stones into a river, which they never look to see more.  What is this but to take the name of
God in vain, and play with an ordinance that is holy and sacred?  Yet thus, alas! do many knock at God’s
door—as idle children at ours—and then run away to the world, as they to their
play, and think no more of their prayers. 
Or, like Pilate, who asked Christ, ‘What is truth?’ and, when he had
said this, went out to the Jews, forgetting what he asked.  Holy David did not think prayer such an
idle errand.  ‘My voice shalt thou
hear in the morning, O Lord; in the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee,
and will look up,’ Ps.
5:3.  First, he
is careful to take his aim right in delivering this arrow of prayer, which he
sends with a message to heaven, ‘I will direct my prayer unto thee.’  Then he is as careful to observe where
his arrow lights, and what answer is made to it, ‘and I will look up,’ which
amounts to as much as that expression, ‘I will hear what God the Lord will
speak,’ Ps.
85:8, that is, to me, concerning the prayer which in those
words immediately foregoing he had made, ‘Show us thy mercy, O lord, and grant
us thy salvation.’  When the
merchant hath sent his ship to sea, he is inquiring at the exchange after her,
to hear how she got to her port, whether on her return, and with what
lading.  When the husbandman hath
cast his seed into the ground, then he comes every day al­most to see how it
comes up.  This, Christian, is to
watch unto prayer, to wait for answers to prayer. Mor­decai, no doubt had put
up many prayers for Esther, and therefore he waits at the kings gate, looking
what answer God would in his providence give thereunto.

 

[The Christian’s
guard or watch

about prayer set for him.]

 

           Third.
The third thing I promised was to set the Christian’s watch for him, by
giving some little coun­sel and help towards his constant performing this duty
of watchfulness.  In doing
this, we take the fol­lowing particulars.

           1.
Particular.  Harbour not any
known sin in thy bosom.  Sin
hath two contrary effects on the con­science, and both sad enough.  Either it fills the con­science with
horror, or benumbs and stupifies it; it breaks the soul’s rest, or takes away
its sense.  The latter is the more
common.  Suffer the devil to anoint
thy temples with this opium, and thou art in danger to fall into the sleeping
disease of a stupid con­science; little list then thou wilt have to pray.  Or if it hath the other effect upon
thee, thou wilt be as much afraid, as now thou dost little desire, to pray.

           2.
Particular.  Beware of any
excess in thy affec­tions to the creature.  A drunken man, of all other, is most unfitting to
watch.  Such a one will be asleep
as soon as he is set in his chair. 
Now all inordinacy of affection is a spiritual drunkenness.  Christ joins both together, ‘Take heed
to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, and
drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares,’ Luke 21:34.  It is a pre­servative against
drowsiness of spirit, that the day of the Lord might not take them
napping.  And of the two, the
drunkenness of the affection is the worse. He that is bodily drunk over-night,
is sober by the morn­ing; but he that is overcharged with the cares or love of
the world, rises as drunk as when he lay down; and how can he then watch unto
prayer?  We have there­fore these
two often joined together, ‘Let us watch and be sober,’ I Thes. 5:6;
‘Be ye therefore sober, and watch,’ I Peter 4:7.  Whatever the affection is, the in­temperance
of it lays the soul under a distemper, and indisposeth it to prayer.  Is it sorrow?  Our Saviour finds his disciples ‘sleeping for sorrow,’ when
they should have watched and prayed, Luke 22:45.  Is it love?  This laid Samson asleep in Delilah’s lap.  The heart of man hath not room enough
for God and the world too.  Worldly
affec­tions do not befriend spir­itual. 
The heart which spends itself in mourning for worldly crosses, will find
the stream runs low when he should weep for his sins.  If the cares of this life fill his head and heart he will
have little list to wait on God for spiritual purposes.  It is no wonder that the master finds
his servant asleep in the day, when he should be at work for him, if he sat up
revelling all the night.

           3.
Particular.  Resist this
spiritual drowsiness when it first creeps upon thee.  Sleep is easier kept off when
approaching, than shaken off when it hath got possession and bound the
senses.  This sleepy disease of the
soul steals insensibly upon us, even as the night steps in by little and
little.  When, therefore, thou
findest it coming, rouse up thyself; as a man who hath business to do would
start up from his chair to shake off his drowsiness.  Now thou mayst observe these few symptoms of this distemper
invading thee.

           (1.)
An unwillingness and backwardness to duty. If thou findest this, it
appears thou beginnest to be heavy‑eyed. 
When grace is wakeful, the Christian needs not many words to persuade
him into God’s presence.  ‘Thou
saidst, Seek ye my face; my heart said, Thy face, Lord will I seek.’  therefore, conclude thou mayest that
some vapours have fumed up from thy corruptions, to dull and deaden thy heart
to the work.  He that would run to
the door, when awake, at the first knock of his dear friend to let him in, may,
when between sleeping and waking, let him stand too long.  This was the spouse’s case, and it lost
her the company of her beloved.  It
showed plainly she was in a sleepy distemper, in that she was so backward to
duty; for that was the door that Christ would have met her at.

           (2.)
Formality in prayer is a certain symptom that a sleepy distemper hangs
about thee.  Grace awake is full of
life and activity; at least it discovers itself by making the soul deeply
sensible of its dead­ness and dulness. 
Vigilantis est somnium narrare. saith Seneca—it shows the man
awake that tells his dream, what he did in his sleep; and it proves the soul
awake that can feelingly and mournfully confess his deadness.

           (3.)
Prevalency of wandering thoughts. 
In sleep, fancy and imagination rules and ranges without any
control.  If thy thoughts range and
scatter into imper­tinences in time of prayer, and meet with no check from thee,
it shows thy grace, if thou hast any, is not well awake.

           4.
Particular.  Express a
conscientious diligence at thy particular calling in the intervals of prayer.
They that sit up to watch had some need of work to keep them awake.  Idleness is but one remove from
sleep.  I cannot believe that he
who lazeth a day awake in idleness, should find his heart awake to pray at
night; for he hath that day lived in the neglect of a duty as necessary as
this, and it is bad going to one duty through the neglect of another.  There is a gen­eration of men indeed,
that under a pretence of watching and praying always, betake themselves to
their cloisters, and renounce all secular employments, as if it were easy to
put off the world as to change their clothes, and get on a cowl or a religious
habit; but the world hath found those places commonly to have proved, not so
much houses to pray in, as dens to draw their prey into.  It is more like that those who are
pampered with sloth and fulness of bread should be eaten up with luxury and
sensuality than with zeal and devotion. 
The air, when still, thickens and cor­rupts; the spirits in our body are
choked with rest; and the soul needs motion and exercise as much as
either.  In spiritual offices it
cannot hold out without intermmittings; therefore, God hath provided our
particular callings as a relief to our spiritual devo­tions.  Only, our care must be not to
overdo.  The same thing may quicken
and weaken, wake us and lay us asleep. 
No greater help to our religious offices than a faithful discharge of
our particular calling; no greater duller of the Spirit of prayer than the same
when inordinately pursued.  The
same oil feeds the lamp and drowns it if excessively poured on.  Hold the candle one way, and the wax
nourishes the flame; turn the other end up, it puts it out.

           5.
Particular.  Preserve a sense of
thy spiritual wants.  As
fulness inclines the body to sleep, so doth a conceit of spiritual fulness the
soul.  When the belly is full then
the bones would be at rest—the man hath more mind to sleep than work; whereas
he that is pinched with hunger, his empty craving stomach keeps him awake.  If once thou beginnest to have a high
opinion of thyself, and thy spiritual hunger be a little stayed—from a conceit
of thy present store, and sufficiency of thy grace—truly then thou wilt compose
thyself to sleep, and sing the rich man's lullaby to thy soul, ‘Soul, thou hast
much goods laid up for may years; take thine ease.’  The Corinthians are a sad instance for this purpose.  ‘Now ye are full, now ye are rich, ye
have reigned as kings without us,’ I Cor. 4:8.  Paul is now nobody with you.  The time hath been you could not be
without his pains.  The hungry
child did no more cry for the breast than you for the word preached by
him.  But now your stomach is
stayed, you are full and can live without him. Whereas, God knows, it was a
fulness of wind of pride, not of solid grace.  It is the nature of grace to dilate the heart and make room
for more, but of pride to cloy and glut the soul.  God hath long kept open house in England; the wine-cellar
door of his ordinances hath not been shut upon us; we have had free access to
drink, and that abundantly, of their sweet wine.  But, alas! may it not be for a lamentation to see how many
are drunk with spiritual pride, rather than filled with grace, after so long an
enjoyment of them!—insomuch that some have attempted to stave the very vessels
from which they have drawn this wine! 
Such are they that decry all ordinances, and would down with ministers
and ministry; yea, who can live without public preaching and private praying
also.  Others, not so mad drunk as
the former, are yet fallen asleep under the tap; they have lost their first
life in and love to ordinances; they sit with sleepy eyes and dead hearts under
them.  Well, Christian, if thou
wouldst keep thy soul awake for this or any other ordinance, take heed thou
losest not the sense of thy wants. Begging is the poor man's trade.  When thou beginnest to conceit thyself
rich, then thou wilt be in danger to give it over, or be remiss in it.

           6.
Particular.  Retire often to
muse on some soul-awakening meditations.  We seldom sleep when we are thoughtful, especially if the
thoughts we muse on be of weight and importance enough to intend and occupy the
mind.  Indeed, idle trivial
thoughts such as have nothing to invite attention, are given as a ready means
to bring a man asleep—I mean bodily sleep. That Christian who neglects
frequently to med­itate on spiritual things, and lets his thoughts walk all day
in the company of carnal worldly occasions, I should wonder if he finds his
heart awake at night to pray in a spiritual manner.  Give me therefore leave to present a few subjects for thy
meditations to insist upon, and they will be as the brazen ball which some
philosophers used to hold in their hand that they might not sleep too long, or
as the alarm which men set overnight to call them up to their business early in
the morning.

           (1.)
Meditate of Christ’s coming to judgment. Surely thou wilt not easily
sleep while this trumpet, that shall call all mankind to judgment, shall sound
in thy ear.  The reason why men
sleep so soundly in security is, because they either do not believe this, or at
least do not think of it seriously so as to expect it. The servant that looks
for his master will be loath to be found in bed, when he comes; no, sits up
sits up to open the door for him when he knocks.  Christ hath told us he ‘will come;’ but not when,
that we might never put off our clothes or put out the candle. ‘Watch therefore:
for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come,’ Matt. 24:42.  There are indeed negative signs
concerning his coming to the general judgement of the world, by which we may
know he will not yet come; as the fall of Babylon, the calling of the Jews, and
other prophecies, that must be fulfilled; before which he will not come.  But there are none such, from which we
may conclude that his coming to any of us in particular, to take us away by
death, and summon us to our particular judgment before his bar, shall not yet
be.  Thou art young; thou canst not
therefore say thou shalt not die as yet. 
Alas! measure the coffins in the churchyard, and thou wilt find some of thy
length.  Young and old are within
the reach of death’s scythe.  Old
men indeed go to death; their age calls for it.  But, young men cannot hinder death's coming unto them.  Thou art rich, will this excuse
thee?  Rich men indeed can get
others to serve in their arms here, when their prince calls them forth to war;
but ‘there is no discharge in this war.’ 
Solomon tells us ‘Thou must personally do this.  Thou art strong and lusty, thou canst
not therefore say that death will be longer at work to fell thee down.  Some indeed he cuts down by chips in
consumptive diseases —they die by piecemeals; others he tears up in one night,
as a tree by a tempest.  O think of
this, and thy sleep will depart from thee!

           (2.)
Consider the devil is always awake.  Is it time for them in the city to sleep, when the enemy
without watch, and may be are climbing the walls? Our Saviour takes it for
granted, ‘If the goodman of the house had known in what watch the thief would
come, he would have watched, and would not have suffered his house to be broken
up,’ Matt.
24:43.  Of all the
nights in the year he would not then have slept. Would Saul have slept in his
trench, if he had thought David had been so near?  Or Sisera have lain down to rest, if he had seen the hammer
and nail in Jael’s hand to drive through his temples?  ‘Hannibal is at the gates!’ was enough to wake the whole
city of Rome, and call them to their arms.  And is not diabolus ad ostium—the devil is at thy
door, enough to keep thee out of thy bed of sloth and negligence? What day in
all the year is no term to Satan? 
What place or company art thou in, that he cannot make a snare to thy
soul?  What member of thy body, or
faculty of thy soul, which is not in danger to be abused by him?  Hast thou not an inmate in thy own bosom
that watcheth to open the gate to him? and is there not a constant
correspondence between them? O how oft doth he beat us—as Bernard saith—with
our own staff; and as the thief sometimes serves the traveller, binds us with
our own garters!  Shall we not
always watch to pray, when he watcheth to tempt? Shall not we keep our
correspondence with God, and Christ, our allies in heaven, as he doth with our
flesh that is his confederate?

 

Ut jugulent homines
surgunt de nocte latrones;

Ut t’ipsum serves non
expergisceris;—

 

—shall
thy enemy be awake to seek to cut thy throat, and wilt not thou rise to save
it?

           (3.)
Consider wicked men are awake, and hard at work for Satan and their lusts.  The philosopher blushed that the smith
should be up and have his hammer in his hand before he had his book.  O may it not put the Christian to
shame! Consider how watchful the men of the world are to follow their worldly
business.  Do they not rise early,
and go to bed late, grudging the very time that is spent to re­fresh nature in
the night with sleep, so bent they are upon their carnal projects!  The philosopher observed this, and
shamed himself for suffering the smith to be at his anvil in the morning sooner
than he was at his book.  O
Christian! should it not make thee blush much more to see the whole town up and
as busy as bees about a garden, one flying this way, another that way—and all
to bring a little more of this world’s perishing pelf into their hive, out of
which death, ere long, will smoke them, and force them to leave what with so
much pains they have gathered for others they know not who, possibly their
greatest enemies—while thou, Christian, sleepest away thy precious time, though
thou art sure to carry thy gettings into the other world with thee,, and there
enjoy the fruit of thy short labour here with everlasting glory!  Nay, con­sider how watchful the wicked
are to take all oppor­tunities to pursue their works of darkness.  The adul­terer watcheth for the
twilight to meet his minion; and wilt not thou watch unto prayer, that thou
mayest fill thy soul with spiritual loves in communion with thy God?  The thief is up at midnight to get his
prey; and wilt not thou break thy rest a little for to obtain a richer treasure
than is to be found in the coffers of the richest princes that the world boasts
of?  Shall these be at so much
pains to satisfy their lusts, and thou take none to honour and enjoy thy
God?  O what a shame was it to the
heavy-eyed disciples that they could not watch to pray with their Master, when
Judas that bold traitor was so wakeful to be up in the dead of the night to
betray him into his murderers’ hands!

           (4.)
Consider how short the time is that thou art desired to watch.  ‘Could you not watch with me one hour?’
saith Christ,’ Matt.
26:40.  Ere long,
Christian, thou shalt be called off thy guard, and then thou shalt have all
rest, though no sleep.  It is but
for this short life thou art put to stand upon this hard duty; and is that so
long?  Others do not count it so.  O how soon is a day, a year, yea a
life, passed at play or sin?  The
great complaint that such make is, ‘Time is short.’ They wish they could clip
its wings, and take off the weights from this clock that make it post away so
fast. Is time so short and sweet to spend in sin, and can it be tedious to thee
to bestow it in devotion?  Why
should an hour in the closet be thought by a saint long, when day and night
spent in an ale-house is too short for the sinner?  But, above all, consider whether it be not better to watch
and pray here on earth for a few days than to wake and roar in hell under
endless and easeless torments!

           (5.)
Consider seriously how great a loser thou hast been already in thy heavenly
trade for want of watching.  It
is with the Christian as with some negli­gent merchant, who takes notice of
some one loss of a round sum that befalls him—may be some hun­dreds at a
clap.  At this he cries he shall be
undone; but regards not the pence and shillings that he idly spends, nor
considers his loss which follows upon his daily negligence.  Here his estate melts insensibly, and
he is not aware of it; whereas, would he count what in this dribbling way is
lost by retail, he might find it amounts to more than the other.  Thus the Christian sometimes is
troubled for one great sin into which he hath fallen—and that not without reason
—but withal, he observes not how he neglects this duty to-day, and negligently
performs that at another time; how he now prays coldly for want of due prepar­ation,
and what little fruit comes of another for want of watchfulness after it;
whereby in time he falls low, though with an easy descent, step by step;
whereas, if he could bring the several items of these his particular losses
together, he would find them swell into a sad reckoning, except with these his
losses he hath also lost—which is the greatest—the tenderness of his
conscience.  Now, Christian, hast
thou not a mind to thrive at last? 
And shall a careless Christian add to his stock?  Did you ever go by the sluggard’s field
and not find it overgrown with thorns? 
Wouldst thou but be persuaded to make it thy business daily to watch thy
heart—how thou prayest, and how thou walkest after thou hast been at
prayer—thou shouldst find a blessed change in thy spiritual affairs.  This strictness will at first be
uneasy, like a new suit; but every day that will wear off, and a sweet facility
follow when thou shalt see thy gains come trowling in by it.  He that finds how well he is paid for
his diligence by the increase of his estate, will not grudge the sluggard his
ease when he shall see him walk by his door in rags. It was the saying once of
a rich man, who, by God’s blessing on his diligence, had raised a vast estate,
that at his first setting up in the world he got a little with much trouble,
but afterwards he got his great gains with little trouble.  And thou, Christian, wilt find the same
in thy spiritual trade.  Thy
trouble will be most at first, but thy gains most at last; and the trouble
less, because the way of godliness, by use and experience, will be naturalized
to thee, and conse­quently become easy and delightful.

           (6.)
Consider what others lose by thy not watch­ing.  He that lives in a town wrongs his
neighbour as well as himself by not looking to his fence: thus one Christian
may injure many by not keeping his own watch.

           (a)
Thy very example is a wrong to others, for this sleepy disease is
catching; thy loose conversation may make others so, as one learns to yawn of
another. It s no small blessing to to live among active Chris­tians, whose zeal
and forwardness in the ways of God is exemplary; this puts mettle in those that
follow them; the heavenly holy conversation of a master is a help to the whole
family.

           (b)
Thou indisposest thyself for doing thy duty to them.  We are commanded to watch over one
another in love, as those that are concerned in our brethren’s welfare.  Now, how unfit is he to watch over
others that doth not watch himself? to ‘provoke to love and to good works,’ who
needs himself the spur?  Can one
asleep wake another that is so?

           (7.)
Lastly, Consider Christ’s care over thee. Look upon him in his
providence.  That eye which neither
sleeps by night nor slumbers by day is thy constant keeper.  Consider him in his intercession. There
he prays for thee, ‘watching thereunto with all perseverance.’  It is his trade and business in heaven,
for he lives to make intercession for his saints.  Con­sider him in his Spirit.  What is he but Christ’s mes­senger sent as our guardian to
take care of the saints in his absence? 
In a word, consider him in the gospel ministry, which is set up for this
very purpose, to ‘watch for your souls.’ 
Yea, every private saint hath a charge to be his brother's keeper.  This well consid­ered would make thee,

           (a)
Watchful to promote his glory that so care­fully provides for thy
safety.  What put David into such a
rage against Nabal but the disrespect that his servants found at his hands to
whom he had been so serviceable? 
‘In vain have I kept all that this fellow hath.’

           (b)
It would make thee the more watchful over thy own soul, if thou hast so
much ingenuity as to fear grieving thy God, who expresseth this tender care
over thee.  What greater grief can
the indulgent parent have than to see his child not mind his own good after all
his care and cost laid out upon him? 
He joys to see the money he gives him improved and in­creased by his
diligence; but it breaks his very heart with sorrow when it is all wasted and
squandered away by ill husbandry.

 

 

 

Division
Fifth.—the Constancy proper to Prayer.

 

‘With
all perseverance.’

 

           These
words, ‘with all perseverance,’ contain the fifth branch in the
apostle's directory for prayer—the
constancy proper to prayer—which I shall despatch briefly in these four
heads.  First. By giving the importance of this phrase, ‘all
perseverance.’  Second. By giving the reason why we are
to pray ‘with all perseverance.’ 
Third. I shall cast in some
considerations to move us to the duty. 
Fourth. Wind up the discourse
with a word of counsel and direction for the help of the weak Christian
therein.

 

 

[Import of the phrase ‘with all perseverance.’]

 

           First.  Let us explain the importance of the phrase ‘with all
perseverance.’  Here is
perseverance, yea ‘all perseverance,’ required in prayer.  First. Let us inquire what is
meant by ‘perseverance.’  Second.
What is meant by ‘all perseverance.’

           First.  What is meant by ‘perseverance.’  The word BD@F6"DJXD0F4H
here used comes from 6"D­JÎH,
the same with 6D"JÎH—a letter only
transposed to melt the sound.  It
signifies strength and victory; hence its compound BD@F6"DJ,D,Ã<,
is to prosecute any business with an unwearied constancy till all dif­ficulties
be conquered and the thing at last be ac­complished.  It is used for the diligence and labour of hunting dogs that
follow the chase till at last they get the game pursued; it is applied also to
lackeys that with great labour run after their masters and are at their hand in
a journey.  In Scripture it is
frequently applied to the duty of prayer, as Acts 6:4; Col. 4:2; Rom. 12:12,
and signifies that invincible patience, courage, and constancy which a
Christian is to show in up­holding this duty of prayer.

           Question.  But are ‘praying always’ in the begin­ning
of this verse, and this ‘praying with persever­ance,’ the same?  If not, wherein lies the difference?

           Answer.  It cannot be thought the apostle, being
giving directions for prayer, would let them interfere one with another, and in
so short a space repeat the same direction over again in other words; the rest
are all distinct, so therefore will we take these.  Calvin makes this to be the difference:—By ‘praying always,’
saith he, he exhorts us to pray in prosperity as well as adversity; and not
then to intermit the practice of this duty because not driven to it by such
outward pres­sing necessities. 
But, by ‘praying with perseverance,’ admomet ne defatigemur,
instandum esse alacri ani­mo; infracto studio continuandas esse preces, si non
statim consequamur quod volumus—he admonisheth that we be not weary of the
work; but continue instant and constant in its performance, though we have not
presently what we pray for.  By
‘praying always,’ we are exhorted to the daily constant exercise of the duty of
prayer, not to neglect the seasons the seasons for prayers as they return upon
us.  By ‘praying with per­severance,’
we are pressed to bear up against discour­agements as to any particular suit or
request we make at the throne of grace, and not to give over though we have not
a speedy answer to it.  So that the
former is opposed to a neglect of duty in its stated seasons, and the latter to
a fainting in our spirits as to any par­ticular suit we put up.  We may keep our constant course of
prayer, and yet not persevere in prayer for this or that mercy, which God
withholds sometime for the exercise of our grace.

           Second.
I shall show what is meant by ‘all perseverance.’

           1.
By ‘all perseverance’ is meant such a perse­verance as holds out to
the end—till God doth give the thing we pray for, or takes away the subject
of our prayer, as he did in David’s case for his sick child by his death.  It is possible a soul may continue
long, yet at last faint when it sees the time for answering still
protracted.  God still stays, and
no news of his com­ing, after many a despatch sent to heaven upon that
occasion.  O it is hard to hold up
our hands, with Moses, ‘to the going down of the sun!’  Christ com­plains how rare and scarce
such a faith is to be found, when he bears long before he throws in the mercy
prayed for.  ‘Nevertheless when the
Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?’ Luke 18:8.
Shall he find so much faith as to keep his people at prayer in expectation of
his coming to their relief?

           2.
By ‘all perseverance’ is meant a perseverance of the whole man in
prayer.  We must not only
persevere to hold up the outward performance of the duty of prayer; but
persevere to exert the inward pow­ers of our souls and their graces in the
duty.  The duty may be kept up, and
the heart be down in per­forming it. 
The faith, zeal, and other graces of the soul may be gone or act but
feebly.  Like an army that hath not
yet quitted the field, but their powder and are even all spent; there they
stand, and set a good face on it, but can do little or nothing to offend the
enemy or defend themselves.  Thus
many in afflic­tions pray still. 
They have not yet given over the duty and run out of the field.  But alas! their faith fails and their
heart quails; there is little life and vigour to be seen in the
performance.  Here is some kind of
perse­verance, but not this ‘all perseverance,’ which above all requires
the perseverance of grace in its actings at the duty.  So we translate the word, Rom. 12:12.  What is here 'with perseverance,’ is
there ‘continuing in­stant in prayer;’ the word is BD@F6"DJ,B@Ø<J,H.
Some are ‘instant,’ but it lasts not. 
If they find the mercy comes, they draw hard; but if their chariot of
prayer be set, and after a pull or two the mercy comes not, their faith jades,
and they give over the work. Others are constant, but not instant; they
continue to pray, but pray themselves cold; they grow lifeless and listless in
the work, as if they looked for nothing to come of it.  We must join both together, or expect
benefit from neither.

 

[Why we are to pray ‘with all
perseverance.’]

 

           Second.  I proceed to the second thing prom­ised, viz. to show why
we must pray ‘with all perse­verance;’ which take in these particulars:—

           First.  It is strictly commanded.  ‘Pray without ceasing,’ I Thes. 5:17;
that is, without fainting.  So our
Saviour, Luke
18:1, ‘And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men
ought always to pray, and not to faint.’ 
Mark, not only that they might, but ‘ought.’  It is indeed a high privilege to us, and a low stoop in the
high God, to give us leave thus to lie at his door, and to suffer the cry of
our prayers to be ever sounding his ears. 
We, I ma sure, could not like to have beggars knocking day and night at
our doors; but so infinitely good is God, that he doth not only allow us this
bold­ness, but also commands it,that the fear of a sin might move us, if the
loss of a privilege will not.

           Second.  This perseverance in prayer is highly
recommended.  Indeed
perseverance crowns every grace and commends every duty.  It is not our faith and hope, but to
‘hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end,’
that God looks at, Heb.
3:6.  Not the
seeming zeal and swiftness of our motion in the ways of God at our first start
and setting forth, but the constancy of a well-breathed soul in holding on his
course till the race be finished, that Christ commends: ‘If ye continue in my
word, then are ye my disciples indeed,’ John 8:31.  So in prayer.  Not the short spurts of an inconstant zeal, that begins to
pray as they say the French do to fight —like thunder and lightning, but if the
first charge carries it not, then they quail, and are quite cowed in their
spirits.  No; it is not this soft
metal, whose edge is thus easily turned, that God likes in prayer, but a zeal
tempered and hardened so with resolution that makes it cut through all delays
and difficulties.  This God highly
commends.  It got Jacob the name of
a prince, so nobly he behaved himself in this duty, holding it out till break
of day with God, and then would not let him go till he had blessed him.

           Third.  It is that which God intends by his
delays and seeming denials. 
Why deals he thus with his people? 
Surely it is to put their graces to the trial, whether they will quit
the siege for a few repulses or fall on with more courage.  He holds his peace, to make them cry
the louder; steps aside, to make them hunt more eagerly after him.  He lays blocks before the wheel of
their prayers, to try their mettle how well they will draw, when it seems a
dead pull, and the mercy comes not at their prayer.  Now two things God aims at by his people’s perseverance in
prayer.  1. His own glory.  2. Their advantage.  These two are never severed.

           1.
His own glory.  What fairer
occasion can the Christian have in his whole life to honour God, than by
holding fast his integrity, and keeping his alle­giance to God firm, when he
seems to be neglected, yea, forsaken of him?  Certainly God would never have put Job to so much trouble,
nor have made him pray and stay so long for the gracious issues of his
providence, but to glorify himself in the faith and patience of his faithful
servant.  ‘Ye have heard of the
patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord,’ saith the apostle James, ch. 5:11.  Truly, we could not have heard so much
of his patience, if we had not heard so much of his troubles.  Had God put an end sooner to them, he
might have found more ease, but not God more honour.  This was it that God was pleased with and counted himself
highly honoured by —that Satan with all his wits and wiles could not make Job
give over praying, much less fall of cursing God; no, not when God broke him
with his tempest, and seemed not to regard him or his prayers.  It pleaseth us most when our prayers
make the shortest voyage—when they are at heaven and back again with and answer
quickly; but it glorifies God most when he lays an embargo—as I may so say—upon
our prayers, that no answer comes from heaven to us, and yet we will send more
after them, as Jacob did Benjamin after his other son, who was then prisoner in
Egypt. When the poor soul will not be taken off the duty by any intervening
discouragements, but presseth harder upon God from his seeming denials, this is
indeed to give glory to God. 
‘Blessed is he that hath not seen, and yet’ thus ‘believeth.’

           2.  God, by his people’s persevering long
in prayer before he gives in his gracious answer, intends their advantage.

           (1.)
He usually pays them use for their forbear­ance.  The longer they pray, the more
redundant the mercy is when it comes. 
Such a mercy, that comes as an answer of persevering prayers, is
compared to the husbandman’s gains at harvest, which abundantly recompenseth
his whole year’s patience. ‘In due season we shall reap, if we faint not,’ Gal. 6:9.  The breast is filling for the child
while the mother is sleeping.  God
sometimes seems to sleep and forget his poor children that cry to him, but he
is preparing the fuller mercy for them.

           (2.)
Such mercies are got with longest and great­est difficulties, they come with sweetest
manifesta­tions of divine love: ‘O woman, great is thy faith,’ Matt. 15:28.  This poor woman had not her request so
soon granted as some others, but she lost nothing by it; for, with the recovery
of her child—which was all her errand—she carries away with her a high testi­mony
from Christ’s own mouth to the truth and emi­nency of her grace.  She who was at first called a dog is at
last owned for a dear child.

           (3.)
Such mercies as are the issue of persevering prayers, they are received
usually with more joy and thankfulness than others.  Partly they are so, because the
Christian's desires are more intense and sharp by long staying and earnest
praying for them—and so he tastes more sweetness in the mercy, as he that comes
hungry from a long journey at plough relisheth his food better than another
that hath not whetted his appetite with any labour or exercise; and also
because such mercies give disappointment to the Christian’s many fears, which
their long stay occasioned.  When
God is long a coming, we are prone to question whether he will come at last or
no: ‘Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no more?  Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth
his promise fail for evermore?’ Ps. 77:7, 8.  See how many sad thoughts gathered
about this good man’s heart; which, though they did not overthrow his chariot
of prayer, yet clog­ged his wheels, and made him drive with a heavy heart.  Now, for a mercy to break out of so
dark a cloud, it must needs bring such a glory with it as to ravish the soul
with joy and enlarge it into thank­fulness.  Those judgments amaze and dispirit sinners most which come
after long peace and prosperity, when they think the danger is over and
bitterness of death is even past; as in Haman’s case, who was sent to the
gallows after he had vaunted how he was invi­ted to the queen’s banquet.  This strange turn of his affairs made
it a double death to him.  So,
mercies that surprise the saint after he hath prayed long, and can hear no
tidings that they are on their way, O how it affects his heart with joy and
gratitude!  The church had prayed
‘without ceasing’ for Peter in prison, but still he is there, even to the very
time when Herod would have brought him forth—probably to his exe­cution.  Now, when he came himself to bring the
joyful news their prayers were heard—while they were instant at the work—it is
said ‘they were astonished,’ Acts 12:16.

           (4.)
They were usually more holily used and im­proved.  For God holds his people long at prayer
for a mercy many times for this very end—to prepare and season their hearts,
that, when they have it, they may know the better how to employ it for his
glory and their own good.  None are
more careful to husband a great estate than those who are at most pains to get
it. Hannah prayed long for a son, but none is given. This makes her add a vow
to her prayer: ‘If thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid,
and wilt give unto thine handmaid a man-child, then I will give him unto the
Lord all the days of his life,’ I Sam. 1:11.  Happy was it for this good woman she
had not her desire sooner.  If she
had received him at first, haply she had never given him back to God
again.  The Lord sometimes forbears
to give a mercy to us, only to get us deeper into bonds to lay it out for him
when we have it.

           (5.)
The last advantage that comes to the Chris­tian by perseverance in prayer is, when
the mercy is at last denied. 
And it is this—it will enable and dispose him to bear the denial more
meekly and holily than another.  He
that is short‑spirited, and cannot wait on God for a mercy, will not easily
submit to him in a denial; whereas, he that keeps up a spirit of prayer for it,
when God comes to take away the subject of his prayer, will acquiesce, now he
sees God hath fully de­clared his will in the thing.  David and Job are preg­nant instances for this.  Job lets not a day pass without prayer
for his children; and how does the man behave himself when they are slain?  Doth he fret and fume?  Doth he curse God for making them a
sacrifice for whom he had offered so many sacri­fices?  No; he meekly submits to his holy will;
he opens not his mouth against him, but in praises to him.  So David, when his child was dead—for
whom, while living, he ceased not passionately to pray—to show how well
satisfied he was with divine provi­dence, he washeth his blubbered cheeks, puts
off his mourning apparel, and goes to the house of God to worship, II Sam. 12:20.
Prayer is a great heart‑easer; it breathes out those distempered passions
which, being bound up in others, break out when God at any time crosseth them
in their wills.

 

[Some considerations pressing the duty

of persevering
prayer.]

 

           Third. Having shown why we are to
persevere in prayer, I come no to the third place, to cast in some
considerations to move us to the duty.  Christ bestowed a parable on his disciples for this very
end, to show that ‘men ought always to pray and not to faint.’  Surely, then, it deserves an
exhortation. Now to enforce the exhortation, take these five particulars into
your consideration.

           First
Consideration. The prevalency of perse­verance in prayer.  This is emphatically expressed by that
question of our Saviour in his parable upon this subject: ‘Shall not God avenge
his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with
them?’ Luke
18:7.  As if he
had said, Can you think that God will send away those who are so near and dear
to him, his own elect, with a denial and that when he hath made full proof of
their faith and patience in waiting long upon him for an answer?  ‘I tell you,’ saith Christ, ‘that he
will avenge them speedily.’  Men
seek to please their old customers that are constant to their shop, whoever
else they send away; so will God those that are in constant trading with him at
the throne of grace.  ‘They that
wait upon the Lord are not ashamed.’ 
David is careful for our encouragement to let us know how well he sped
after his long waiting at God's door: ‘I waited patiently for the Lord; and he
inclined unto me, and heard my cry,’ Ps. 40:1; Hebrew ‘in
waiting I waited;’ that is, I stayed waiting long, and at last he came.  But David was a favourite; may others
look to speed as he did?  See ver.
3, ‘Many shall see it,...and shall trust in him.’  Answer of prayers is a covenant privilege.  It is not a monopoly given to one or
two, but a charter granted to the whole corporation of saints to the end of the
world: ‘He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their
prayer,’ Ps.
102:17. 
Now mark what follows, ‘This shall be written for the generation to
come,’ ver.
18.

           Second
Consideration.  Thy
perseverance in prayer will help to evidence thy state to be gracious.
The hypocrite is oft uncased here; will he pray always? Job 27:10.  Many will come into a workman’s shop,
and take up his tools to work with them for awhile, and lay them down again by
and by, who would never yield to be bound to his trade and serve out an
apprenticeship at it.  Thus an
unsound heart will be meddling with this duty now and then, but grows weary of
the work at last, especially if he be made to wait long for an answer.  Saul prays to God, and because he hears
not from him, goes at last to seek to the devil.  Observe what effect God’s silence, frowns, and seeming
denials produce in thy heart, and thou mayest know the temper of thy spirit
there­by.  Do they wear off thy
edge to prayer, or sharpen it?  Do
they make thee fall off, and send thee away from God’s door—as some sturdy
beggars go from ours when denied an alms—with clamours in thy mouth, and
discontent in thy heart, resolved to beg no more there?  Or do they make thee fall on with more
courage, and enkindle thy affections to God and this duty more ardently? as the
suitor, whose love is heightened by repulses, and importunity doubled by being
obstructed and opposed.  Truly, if
thou findest the latter, thou mayest conclude, if this instant constancy in
prayer be for spiritual blessings—Christ and his sanctifying graces—that divine
virtue, and that good store hath gone from Christ into thy soul. ‘O woman,
great is thy faith!’

           Third
Consideration.  Consider the
great folly of fainting in prayer. 
Thou dost a foolish and irrational act.  Haply thou art in a deserted condition, prayest for comfort,
but none comes; for victory over such a temptation without or corruption
within, but art foiled in both, for all thy praying; therefore thou first
faintest in the duty, and then givest it over.  What egregious folly is this!  Because mercy comes not in all haste to thee, therefore thou
wilt run from it —which thou dost in ceasing to pray!  When the fisher misseth his draught, he doth not presently
give over his trade, but falls a mending his net.  O cease not to pray, but mend thy praying!  See at what hole the fish went out—the
mercy was lost; double thy diligence, and all shall be well at last.  If thy pain con­tinues while the
plaster is on, dost think it will cease when it is taken off?  Whatever the mercy is thou wouldst
have, must it not come from God’s hands? Now will God give the mercy to thee
who rejectest his counsel for the obtaining of it?  Is not prayer, and that ‘with all perseverance,’ the way he
directs all his people to take? Suppose a physician, who is sent for to a sick
patient, should give the messenger an elec­tuary to carry back with him, and
saith, It will be some time before I come myself to the sick man, but charge
him to take a good quantity of this as oft as he finds himself ill, every day,
till I come, and he shall do well. 
Now the patient begins to follow his physi­cian’s directions, but,
staying longer than he likes before he comes, and finding his trouble continue,
sets it away, and takes no more of it. 
The physician at last sets forth, and, as he is on his way to him, hears
of it, turns back, and comes not at him; so the poor man dies by his own hasty
folly.  Truly this is our
case.  God, for reasons best known
to himself, stays some while before he comes to his tempted distressed
servants, for their deliverance, but leaves order when any of them ail
anything—so the word 6"6`B"2,Ã,
James
5:13, signifies—that they should pray, apply themselves to
the use of this duty; yea, continue the spiritual constant use of it till he
comes; and withal assures us he will come soon enough to save us.  Now, what folly is it to cast off this
means so strictly prescribed? 
Surely, thought there were noth­ing else, this is enough to turn God
back when on his way of mercy to do us good.

           Fourth
Consideration.  Consider it is as
sinful as foolish to give over this duty.  ‘Thou castest off fear, and restrainest prayer before God,’ Job 15:4.  It is a high crime for one trusted with
a castle for his prince to deliver it cowardly into his enemy’s hand, espe­cially
if he hath provision wherewithal to defend it. Now hath not God provided
sufficiently to enable the Christian to maintain this duty against all the
armies of men and devils, afflictions and temptations, that can oppose it?
Princes are most careful to enforce and supply frontier castles above others
with all necessaries for defence, because most assaulted.  Prayer is a duty that is as hard laid at
by Satan as any, and hath many other difficulties that render it no easy matter
for the Christian to be instant and constant at it.  God hath considered this, and accordingly pro­vided
succour.  He gives his Spirit to
help the Chris­tian—because of his many infirmities—what and how to pray; who,
if he be used kindly, will not be wanting to lift with him in the work.  And, while the Spirit is ready to pray
in him, Christ is as ready in heaven to pray for him; who also sends the
precious promise of the gospel—as messengers into a besieged town—to assure the
soul relief is coming from heaven to him, be the affliction or temptation never
so great and formidable that besets it. 
Now, to faint in the work, and, by giving over the duty, to open the
city gates of his soul, for Satan to enter and triumph over God with his
insulting blasphemies—O what gracious soul, that hath any spark of loyalty in
his breast unquenched to his God, doth not tremble at the thought of such a
treasonable action!  We cannot cast
off prayer, but we cast some dishonourable reflection upon God; for, as one
saith well, every real defect in the creature proceeds from an imaginary defect
which he falsely supposeth to be in God. 
Men first conceive unworthily of God, and then carry themselves un­worthily
and undutifully to him.  Now the
causes from which this fainting in prayer proceeds are all evil and bitter, as
by and by will appear.

           Fifth
Consideration.  As it is
foolish and evil, so it is of dangerous consequence to ourselves, to faint,
and cease to pray.

           1.
It is the ready way to bring some stinging affliction upon us.  This is the best that can come of
it.  Art thou a servant of God, and
fleest from his face?  Art thou a
child, and playest the truant? 
Look that thy heavenly Father will send thee to school with a rod at thy
back.

           2.
Cease to pray, and thou wilt begin to sin. Prayer is not only a means to
prevail for mercy, but also to prevent sin.  ‘Pray that ye enter not into temptation.’  The thief comes when the candles are
out and all the house in their beds. Christ could not keep his disciples awake
at their devotions; and how soon were they put to the rout when the tempter
came!  When the courtier in a
discontent withdraws, and gives over his attendance at court, he is more easily
wound in to disloyal practices against his prince.  Discontent softens the heart to receive sinful impressions
from the tempter.  ‘Thou castest
off fear, and restrainest prayer before God,’ Job 15:4.  Eliphaz’s doctrine was true, though his
application was false.  When Saul
gave over in a pet to pray to God, then he sought to a witch.  Sins of commission are the usual
punishments that God inflicts on persons for sins of omission.  He that leaves a duty may fear to be
left to commit a crime; he that turns his ear from the truth takes the ready
course to be given over to believe fables, II Tim. 4:4.  He that casteth off prayer, it is a
wonder if you find him not ere long cast into some foul sin.

 

[Counsel and direction for the weak
Christian

in persevering prayer.]

 

           Fourth. I shall wind up the discourse
with a word of counsel and direction for the help of the weak Christian
therein.  Now this will, I
suppose, be best performed by laying be­fore you the several causes of a
person’s falling off from this duty, or fainting in it, and so to fit the
directions accordingly. All diseases are not cured with the same medicine,
neither are catholic remedies so effectual as those which respect the
particular humour from which the distemper aris­eth.  Now the causes
of non‑persevering in prayer are diverse.

           First.
Sometimes the cause is want of a lasting and en­during motive or principle
to keep and hold us constantly to the duty.  When the spring is down the watch must needs cease going,
for that fails that gave the wheels their motions.  That sometimes which sets the creature to prayer, is not
pure obedience to the command, but a desire to some particular mercy, which, if
obtained, the fish being caught, the net is laid aside; or, if he prays long,
and hath it not, he grows weary of the work, and lets it fall.  Be sure, Christian, therefore to pray
in obedience.  Bind the duty upon
thy conscience, and thou wilt not easily shake it off.  ‘God forbid that,’ saith Samuel, ‘I
should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you,’ I Sam. 12:23.  He had little encouragement, from them
he prayed for, to continue at the work, but his obedience to God, to whom he
prayed, held him to it. This is a strong fence to hedge in the heart indeed. We
cannot break through this hedge but we shall feel the thorns in our side.  A gracious soul dreads noth­ing more
than guilt.  Tell him it is a sin
to cease pray­ing, and you say enough. 
What though God answers not my prayer, his silence to my prayer must not
make me silent not to pray.  Prayer
is still a duty. God is not bound to answer presently when we pray, but we are
bound to pray though he doth not answer. ‘All this is come upon us,’ saith the
church, ‘yet have we not forgotten thee, neither have we dealt falsely in thy
covenant,’ Ps.
44:17.  Remember,
Christian, thou art a covenant servant, and one thing thou art as such bound to
do is, to pray to thy God without ceasing, I Thes. 5:17.  This will defend thee against any
motion that the tempter suggests to the contrary.  the beggar knocks awhile at the rich man's door, and, if he
be not served, away he goes.  But
the servant in the house, though he be hungry, doth not run away pres­ently
from his master, because he hath not his dinner so soon as he desires.

           Second.
Sometimes this not persevering in prayer comes from pride.  ‘This evil is of the Lord; what should
I wait for the Lord any longer?’ II Kings 6:33.  What a haughty spirit was here!  Pride likes not to wait, but to be
waited on.  He in the gospel was
ashamed to beg, much more to stand long at the door upon a begging errand.  Now, though this be a disease which a
saint is more free from than other men, yet there are dregs enough still within
him to royle and distemper his spirit, if he be not daily evacuating and
purging them out.  It will not
therefore be amiss to leave a few soul‑humbling considerations in your hands,
which you may be often taking, especially when you feel any grudgings of this
sin about you, and your hearts begin to grow discontented that God makes you
stay so long for any mercy prayed for.

           1.
Consider what it is to pray. 
It is to go a beg­ging for an alms, not to demand a debt.  Now, doth it become thee in so poor a
condition, and about such a work, to be so quick and short with thy God?  If you can live without being beholden
to God, why then do you at all come to his door?  If you cannot, why then do you not wait more patiently for
his pleasure? Should he wrong thee if he beat thee from his door? Why then art
thou no more thankful for his leave to wait there, though thou beest not
presently served?

           2.
Consider who he is thou prayest to.  Is he not the great and glorious majesty of heaven and
earth?  And is not this one piece
of the state he looks to be served in by his poor creatures?  How long did Mor­decai sit at the
king's gate before he had that which he waited for?  Is it not time enough for the servant to be set at dinner
after he hath waited at his master’s table?  Were it not unsufferable sauciness in the serv­ant to
complain his master sat too long and required too much waiting at his
hands?  This is the language of our
hearts, when we think much to stay God’s time for a mercy.  Is he not a righteous holy God?  Surely he doth thee no wrong to make
thee pray, and that long, for a mercy which thou deservest not when it comes at
last.  Is he not wiser than thou,
to know how to time his mercies? 
‘Shall the earth be forsaken for thee? and shall the rock be removed out
of his place?’ Job
18:4.  Wilt thou
have God overthrow the course of his providence, which he thinks fit, to
gratify thy impatient spirit? 
Surely this is to charge God fool­ishly with some error in his
government.  In a word, is not he a
faithful God, though he comes not so soon to thy relief  as thou wouldst have him?  where did he give thee leave to date
his promises and set the day of payment? 
No; he hath promised to answer his chil­dren’s prayers, but concealed
the time of performance of his promise, on purpose to keep them in a waiting
posture; and therefore he breaks not his promise when he detains a mercy, but
thou forgettest thy duty not to wait. 
God is not unfaithful, but thou art faith­less and unbelieving.

           3.
Have not as good as thyself prayed, and that as long as thou, before they
have received an answer, and yet have not thus behaved themselves?  Look into the generation of seekers,
and thou wilt find that God hath exercised their patience as well as thine.
Hast thou stood at God’s door longer than many of thy brethren have done?  Remember Job, David, and Heman, how
many troubles came over their heads! what sad tidings did they hear!  Dismal afflictions did they endure they
endure before the day broke and divine providence cleared up!  Shall God raise a causey[5]
for thee to walk by thyself dryshod, while these, and thousands besides, have
taken many a weary step through the deep sloughs of affliction, before they
could come to fair way?  When God
led Israel far about, and made it a journey of forty years from Egypt to
Canaan, it had been great pride for any among them to have desired God to lead
them a shorter way thither than all his brethren.  David de­sired no more at God’s hands than to fare as his
fellow-saints did: ‘Be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that
love thy name,’ Ps.
119:132. 
Nay, doth not Christ himself and example beyond all example, wait, and
that long, even in heaven itself for an answer to his prayers?  He hath been already above a thousand
years  there at prayer for his
church, and against his enemies, and hath not as yet received the full of his
desires; but still is expecting till the one be saved, and the other be made
his footstool.  Who art thou that
thou shouldst have so high an opinion of thyself, as to look God should make
all stay, and trade for time, while thou alone for ready money?

           4.
Consider whether thou didst never make God wait on thee before his suit
could be heard, though he begged not for his benefit but thy own.  Did God wait in thy carnal state upon
thee, that he might at last be gracious to thee, and thinkest thou much to wait
at prayer now on him?

           Third.  This not persevering in prayer proceeds
oft from unbelief.  The
creature prays, God is silent, and no answer comes.  Now, thinks Satan, is my time come to do this person a
mischief; and therefore he labours to persuade the creature that there is no
mercy to be expected from God.  If,
saith the tempter, God had meant to come, he would have been here be­fore
now.  So many days and months are
now gone, and no news of his approach. 
Thou hast stayed too long to meet with disappointment at last; give
over, and take some other course. Thus he dealt with our Saviour.  No enemy appeared in the field for
forty days, and then he appears. 
This is his way with the saints also.  He lets them alone while he thinks they are softened into a
compliance by long standing upon duty, and hopes their ammunition grows low;
then he comes to parley with them, and take them off from waiting upon God, by
starting many fears and doubts in their thoughts concerning the power, mercy,
and truth of God; so that the poor Christian is at last put to a stand, and
knows not whether he should pray or not pray.  Or if he holds up the duty, yet not his heart in it; he
prays faintly, and with a kind of despair, as the poor widow made ready her
last handful of meal with no other thoughts than of dying when she had ate
it.  Thus he prays, but lots upon
nothing but death and misery to follow it.  O this is sad praying, to expect no good from God in the
performance!  Un­belief is a soul‑enfeebling
sin; it is to prayer as the moth to the cloth, which bites the very threads
asunder, and crumbles it to nothing; it wastes the soul's strength, that it
cannot look up to God with any hope. 
‘For they all made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be weakened,’ Neh. 6:9.  Resist therefore Satan, steadfast in
the faith.  Never let thy heart suf­fer
the power, mercy, or truth of God to be called into question; thou hadst as
good question whether he can cease to be God.  These attributes of the divine na­ture are to thy faith like
the stone to Moses, which Aaron and Hur put under him to sit upon; they will
sustain thy spirit, that thou shalt not faint or grow weary at the work, though
God makes thee wait till ‘the going down of the sun.’  O this waiting posture highly pleaseth God, and never puts
the soul to shame.  Mary, that
stayed by the sepulchre, though she missed her Lord there, got at last a happy
sight of him.  Quæramus et nos
Christum, saith one upon the place, ex fide, et astabit nobis licet non
illicò eum ag­noverimus—let us but seek Christ in faith, and he will at
last be with us, though we do not presently see him.

           Fourth.  Some persevere not in prayer, because
they have their eye upon some other than God from whom they expect help.  It is no wonder he gives over praying
who thinks he hath another string to his bow. While the carnal heart prays for
deliverance, he hath other projects in his head how to wriggle himself out of
the briers in which he is caught, and on these he lays more stress and weight
than on God to whom he prays; therefore, at last, he leaves praying, to betake
himself to them.  Whereas another,
that looks for all from God, and sees no way to help himself but by calling in
God to his aid, will say as Peter to Christ —asking his disciples whether they
would leave him as others had done—‘Lord, to whom shall we go but unto thee?
thou hast the words of eternal life.’ 
I know not another door to knock at—saith the poor soul—but thine; the
creature hath it not to give, but thou hast; I will therefore never leave
thee.  We know not what to do, said
good Jehoshaphat, but our eyes are up unto thee.

           Fifth.  It proceeds from a want of inward
com­placency which the creature should have in God, and communion with him.  ‘Will he delight himself in the
Almighty? will he always call upon God?’ Job 27:10.  He will not always call upon him,
because he never did ordinarily delight in him.  We easily let go what we take no great content to
enjoy.  The sincere soul is tied to
God by the heart‑strings, his communion is founded in love; and ‘love is
stronger than death,’ ‘many waters cannot quench it.’  A stranger may have an errand that brings him to a man's
house; but that done his acquaintance ceaseth.  But a friend, he comes to sit with him, and the delight he
takes in his company will not suffer him to discontinue his ac­quaintance
long.  Get therefore thy affections
but once placed upon God as thy chief good, and the spark or stone will as soon
forget the way to their centre, as thou the way to thy God in prayer.  The hypocrite useth prayer as we use
physic—not because he loves the taste of it; the sincere soul as food—it is
sweet to his gust[6].  David, from the inward satis­faction he
found in the presence of God, cries out, ‘It is good for me to draw near to
God;’ Ps.
73:28, as one that, tasting some rich wine or sweet morsel,
lays his hand on his stomach—where he finds the cheering of it—and saith to the
standers‑by, ‘O it is good!’  Never
will such a soul part with it.  No,
he will say, as the fig‑tree in Jotham's parable, Shall I forsake my sweet­ness,
and the good fruit I have found in communion with my God!  I will never do it.

 

 

 

 

Division
Sixth.—The Comprehensiveness of Prayer.

 

‘And
supplication for all saints.’

 

           These
words contain the sixth and last branch in the apostle’s directory for prayer,
and that is, the comprehensiveness of the duty, or the persons that are
to be the subject of our prayers—‘supplication for all saints.’  But what! would he have us pray for
none but saints?  Thus cannot be
the apostle’s meaning, it being so contrary to the mind of Christ, from whom he
hath his message.  Christ both bids
us pray for our enemies, and is himself our pattern for it; yea, Paul himself
teacheth contrary doctrine to this: ‘I exhort therefore, that, first of all,
prayers and supplications be made for all men,’ I Tim. 2:1,
that is, all sorts of men, faithful and infidels, friends and enemies.  So then saints are not here named as
the adequate and only subject of our prayers, but as a principal species, a
sort of persons whom we are in an especial manner to carry in our prayers to
God, whom if we do but remember, we shall not easily forget to pray for others
also; because, as Augustine saith, numerus sanctorum de numero impiorum
semper est auctus —the saints’ number is increased and taken out of the
number of the wicked.  In praying
for Babylon, we pray for Jerusalem. 
The more that are prayed out of sin, the more are prayed into
Christ.  We shall wind up our
discourse upon this subject upon these three
propositions or bottoms.  First. We must show a public spirit in
prayer, by praying for others as well as ourselves.  Second. Of all
whom we remember in our prayers, saints must not be forgot.  Third.
In praying for saints, we must be careful to comprehend and encircle all
saints.

 

 

FIRST
PROPOSITION.

 

[A public spirit must be shown in
prayer.]

 

           We
must show a public spirit in prayer, by praying for others as well as
ourselves.  This is a duty of
common interest, in which others are to share with ourselves.  Like the buckets that hang in our
houses, which are for the use of the whole town when any house is on fire, the
spirit of prayer is a public treasure, though laid up in some few hands.  All can­not pray, therefore all should
be prayed for.  I say it is the
saints' duty, not a favour upon courtesy, which may ad libitum—at
pleasure, be done or left undone. We sin and transgress the law of prayer if we
do it not.  ‘God forbid that I
should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you,’ I Sam. 12:23.  Paul writes him­self a debtor to his
brethren in this respect, ‘We are bound to thank God always for you,’ II Thes. 1:3.
He acknowledges it due debt.  In
another place he ‘thanks God that he hath them in remembrance al­ways.’  So sensible he was of the weight of
this duty, that he thanks God for giving of him a heart to perform it.

 

[Why a public spirit must be shown in
prayer.]

 

           First.  It is one end why the Spirit of
prayer is given us.  The gifts
of the Spirit are to be employed according to the mind and intent of the
Donor.  If a man bequeaths house
and land to another, but charges the estate with such a payment for the use of
the poor, he forfeits his legacy that fulfills not the will of the dead.  God intends the good of others in all
his gifts to particular saints; the way to lose our gift is to hoard it up, and
not lay it out for the end it was given. ‘The manifestation of the Spirit is
given to every man to profit withal,’ I Cor. 12:7.  How should we profit others by this
gift of the Spirit, if not by praying for them?  That Spirit which stirs us up to pray for our­selves, will,
if we quench it not, send us on the same errand for others; yea, in some cases,
for others be­fore ourselves—for their spiritual good, before our own temporal;
for the public good of a community, before the private good of our single
person; as in Moses’ case, who would not be taken off praying for Israel to be
made great upon their ruins. 
Indeed that offer from God, ‘Let me alone, and I will make of thee a
great nation,’ was only probatory, to try whether Moses would prefer his own
stake before the people’s, and God was highly pleased with his self-denial.

           Second.
The law of love binds it as a duty upon us.  We are commanded to ‘love our neighbour as ourself.’  That ‘as’ imports a parity for
kind, though not for proportion; for manner, though not for measure.  I must love my neighbour as truly,
though not as strongly, as myself. 
Now, how do we show real love to ourselves, if we pray not for
ourselves? Our Saviour expounds our love to our enemy by praying for him: ‘Love
your enemies,’ and ‘pray for them which despitefully use you,’ Matt. 5:44.  We may give an alms to an enemy, and
not love him.  It is easier to draw
out our purse than to draw out our soul to the hungry; as the prophet phraseth
it, in prayer we draw out our souls. 
If a man ever speaks or does anything sincerely, surely it is when he
directs his speech to God in prayer, saith Lucas Brugens, upon the place.  Therefore, God chooseth this of praying
for our ene­mies as the surest testimony for our loving of them. And truly he
that wisheth well only to himself may well be reckoned among the most
degenerate of mankind.  One well
compares such a self-lover to the hedgehog, that laps himself with his own soft
down, and turns out bristles to all the world besides.

           Use.
This shows the largeness of God’s bountiful heart.  He gives his children not only leave to
ask for themselves, but for others. 
This is not the manner of men; we count it too much boldness to beg for
them­selves and others also.  If a
poor man, when he hath got his alms, should then beg for all his neighbours,
where should he find the man that would bid him welcome?  But behold here the immensity of divine
goodness, who gives us leave to bring our neighbour’s pitcher with our own to
his door, yea commands it, and then takes it ill when we steal to prayer upon
our own private errand, and leave the thought of others’ necessities behind
us.  Why shouldst thou, Christian,
stand in doubt whether God will supply thy own wants, when he commands thee to
intercede for others?

 

[Lamentation for the
want of

a public spirit in
prayer.]

 

           A
lamentation may be taken up for the narrow­ness of our spirits in prayer.  Some, indeed, are so far from praying
for others, that they have not learned to show so much mercy to themselves;
yea, live in such an estate of alienation from God, wherein they can­not pray
for themselves or their dearest relations.  O how many prayerless fathers have we that are cruel to
their own flesh! husbands to the wives of their own bosom!  Ask whether they love them; they will
tell you, Yes, that they do as their own souls.  And you may believe them, for they serve them no worse than
they do their own souls.  A time is
coming wherein they will know, one hearty prayer found upon the file for their
relations would speak more for their love they pretend towards them, than all
the bags of money which they fill for them.  Others, if they show a little natural affection to their own
flesh and domes­tic relations, yet their love hath much ado to get over their
own thresholds, to inquire how it fares with others.  O how little do they feel their neighbours’ pains! how
seldom do they spread them with any real sense upon their hearts before the
Lord!  Or, if their eye affects
their heart with what is presented so near unto them in the afflictions of
their next-door neigh­bour, yet how few discover such a public spirit as to
carry upon their hearts the miseries of those that are at further distance, so
as to be faithful remembrancers to the Lord for them?  Blessed Paul was afflicted with, yea, had ‘a great conflict
for, those that had never seen his face in the flesh.’  Even among those that are Christian, O
what a decay is there of this public spirit!  There is great complaint in the world among men of their
great losses in our late times of confusion; but I think the saints are the
greatest losers, who have lost so much of their love and char­ity.  One saith the world was once destroyed
with water, propter ardorem cupidinis—for the heat of lust which had set
it on a flame; and shall be once again destroyed with fire, propter teporem
charitatis—for the coldness of love and charity.  Love is to the soul what natural heat is to the body—it
gives vigour, and enables for the performance of all offices of life.  But alas! how is this kindly heat
decayed among Chris­tians in this old age of the world!  This was long ago foretold by our
Saviour, ‘The love of many shall wax cold,’ Matt. 24:12, and no won­der,
when self‑love, that predatory fire, waxes so hot; foretold also by the
apostle, ‘In the last days men shall be lovers of themselves,’ II Tim. 3:2.  And what a black regiment follows this
captain sin, is there to be seen! 
If once a man make self the top of his aim, farewell loving of or
praying for others.  Charity cannot
dwell in so narrow a house as the self‑lover's heart is; yea, it is diametri­cally
opposed to it: ‘Love seeks not her own,’ I Cor. 13:5.

           But
to turn lamentation into exhortation: labour for a public spirit in
prayer.  Is there none, O man, that
needs the mercy of God besides thyself? Wouldst thou have none saved in another
world, nor provided for in this with thee?  Now, in remembering others, God will give thee leave thy
love should begin at home, though he would not have it end there.  Look into thy family; canst thou forget
them a day, if thou rememberest thyself? 
Shall a believer turn worse than an infidel?  He provides for his house; and thou hast light that tells
thee all thy providing for them is nothing, except God say amen. When thou hast
paid thy duty to them, still widen thy charity and take up thy neighbours into
thy thoughts.  O consider what is
doing in the streets and neighbourhood! 
How many mayest thou there soon find pouring out their pre­cious souls
as a drink-offering to Satan, the god of this world, in their horrid
abominations?  O pray that God
would stay their bloody hand before they have irrecoverably made away
themselves!  Then take a further
walk in thy meditations to view the public state and posture of the
nation.  See what mercies are writ
with the golden pen of Providence upon its fore­head, and pay thy humble
thanks; what prognostics of judgments coming thou canst observe in the face of
the times, and get into the gap before the wrath begins.  Did Abraham so plead for a Sodom,
though himself was far enough from the danger of the storm, and not thou for
thy own nation, who art like to be taken in it if it fall in thy days, or thy
posterity to rue it, if the cloud impending be not scattered by the prayers of
the faithful?  Nay, let not the sea
that divides thee and the other parts of the earth make thee think thou art not
concerned in their happiness or misery. 
Let thy prayers walk over the vast ocean, and bring matter for thy
devotions, like the mer­chant’s ship her freight from afar.  Visit the churches of Christ abroad;
yea, the poor Indians and other ruins of mankind that lie where Adam’s sin
threw them with us, without any attempt made as yet upon them by the gospel for
their recovery, and carry their deplored condition before the Lord.  Our Drake is famous for compassing the
earth with his ship in a few years; thou mayest by thy prayers every day, and
make a more gainful voyage of it too than he did.

 

[Considerations to
induce to

a public spirit in prayer.]

 

           Take
two or three quickening considerations to set thee the more feelingly to
this work.

           1.
Consideration.  Thou canst
not pray in faith for thyself, if only for thyself.  The Lord Jesus taught his disciples
this piece of charity in the form of prayer he gave them: ‘When ye pray, say,
Our Father.’  Pater est verbum
fidei; noster est verbum charitatis— ‘father’ is a word of faith and
confidence; ‘our father’ imports love and charity, two necessary graces in
prayer.  We live by faith, and
faith works by love. No prayer can be without faith, nor faith without charity.
Christ sends him in the gospel from the altar, to rec­oncile himself to his
brother before he offered his gift. And why, but that he might be as ready and
willing to pray for his brother as himself?  If we have not charity to pray for our brother, we cannot
expect welcome when we pray for ourselves.

           2.
Consideration.  You do not
else make good the character and report which God gives of his children.  He speaks of them to be a blessing to
the persons and places about them: Israel ‘a blessing in the midst of the land
of Assyria,’ Isa.
19:24.  They are
compared to a fountain, which is a common benefit to serve a whole town; to
stop or trouble which is a wrong to all that draw their water thence, Prov. 25:26.
Now, one way wherein the godly are eminently serviceable to others, is by the
interest they have in God and the prevalency of their prayers with him. ‘By the
blessing of the upright the city is exalted,’ Prov. 11:11;
that is, by their fervent prayers, which draw down a blessing from heaven upon
it.  God blesseth imperatoriè—by
command: ‘he commanded the blessing, even life for evermore,’ Ps. 133:3.  The saints bless when they pray: ‘On
this wise ye shall bless the children of Israel, saying unto them, The Lord
bless thee, and keep thee,’ Num. 6:23, 24.

           3.
Consideration.  God gives a signal
testimony of his favour to his saints' prayers for others.

           (1.)
He doth great things at their request for others.  How oft did Moses reverse divine
plagues that were executed on Egypt? even as oft as Pharaoh had a heart to beg
his prayers.  How low did Abraham
beat the market for Sodom’s preservation? he brought it down to ‘ten righteous
men.’  Could that wicked place have
but afforded that number, it had not been turned to ashes.

           (2.)
When their prayers obtain not a mercy for the people, then nothing else can
help them.  There­fore God, to
express his peremptory resolution and irreversible decree to punish Israel, tells
them, ‘Though Moses and Samuel stood before me, yet my mind could not be toward
this people,’ Jer.
15:1, thereby intimating their case desperate.  If the prayers of such holy men could
not prevent the fall of that cloud of his wrath impending, much less could they
with their own power or policy shift it off.  Indeed when God is fully set upon a vindictive way, he takes
them off from praying: ‘Pray not thou for this people,...for I will not hear
thee,’ Jer.
7:16.  And even
in this he shows at what a rate he values his people’s prayers, which makes him
loath they should bestow their pains in vain. ‘Pray not thou for this
people’—as if he had said, Let them pray if they will, I can without any regret
reject their motion; but I am un­willing thou shouldst pray in an unaccepted
time for that which I have no mind to give.

           (3.)
When the saints’ prayers bring not back with them the mercy for others that is
their express errand, yet God is careful that his people should not have the
least suspicion that the denial proceeds from any dis­respect he hath to their
persons or prayers, and there­fore he sometimes gives the thing they desire,
only he changes the subject. 
Thus, when God denied Abra­ham for Ishmael he gave him abundantly in
Isaac. Sometimes, again, what he denies them for others he grants to
themselves.  Thus David’s prayers
for his enemies ‘returned into his own bosom.’  Now in praying for others:

           (a)
Get thy heart deeply affected with their state and condition for whom thou
prayest.  God loves mercy better
than sacrifice.  To draw out our
souls in giving and alms is greater charity than to draw out our purse.  So in prayer, be sure thy soul be
poured out, or else thou art a deceiver; thou wrongest both God and him
also  thou prayest for.  Before Christ prayed for Lazarus he
troubled himself.  ‘Behold how he
loved him!’ said those about him who were witness to the groans he fetched and
tears he shed.  Then thou wilt pray
fervently for others when thy heart is warmed into sympathy for them.  A lawyer may show more rhetoric in
pleading a man’s cause, but a brother or dear friend that carries the sense of
his condition upon their hearts must needs discover more affection.

           (b)
Prefer spiritual blessings in thy prayers for others before temporal.  Is it a sick friend on whose errand
thou goest?  If health be all thou
beggest for him, thou art not faithful to thy friend.  He may have that and be the worse for it.  Ask of Christ grace and glory for him,
and then thou dost something to purpose. 
Surely this our Saviour meant in his method of causing the palsied man
to be cured of his disease: ‘Be of good cheer,’ saith Christ, ‘thy sins are
forgiven,’ Matt.
9:2.  He first
brings him the news of a pardon, as a mercy {of} infinitely more worth than
life or limbs, thereby tacitly reproving his friends, who took more care to
have his body healed than his soul saved. 
Is it the nation thou art praying for?  Aim at more than deliverance from outward judgments and
plagues.  The carnal Jews could
say, ‘Give us water that we may drink,’ Ex. 17:2; but thought not
of their sin, to beg repentance for and pardon of it.  That was the cry of the creature—a beast can low and bellow
in a drought; but this is the voice of a saint.

           (c)
Be not discouraged in your prayers for others though an answer doth not
presently overtake them. Thou prayest for a rebellious child, or carnal
friend, who yet continue to be so; take heed thou dost not presently think them
past grace, and give over the work. 
Samuel saw the people he prayed for mend but slowly, yet hear what he
saith: ‘God forbid that I should cease praying for you,’ I Sam. 12:23.  I have heard of some that have been
laid forth, yea buried, before they were dead, by their overhasty friends.  Be not thou thus cruel to the souls of
thy relations or neighbours.  Lay
them not out of thy prayers, bury them not in thy thoughts for reprobates,
because thou canst not perceive any sign of spiritual life in them, though thou
hast many a time stretched thy hands in prayer over them; their souls thou
seest are yet in their bodies, and so long it is not too late for God to
breathe the life of grace into their souls.  Again, is it for the public thou prayest?  Draw not in thy stock of prayer, though
thou hast not so quick a return in thy trade with heaven for it as thou
desirest.  The father’s labour is
not lost if his son receives the benefit of it. He may be dies before the ship
comes home he sent forth, but his child lives to have the gains of that adventure
paid into his purse.  Thus one
generation sows prayers for the church, and another reaps the mercy prayed for.

 

 

SECOND
PROPOSITION.

 

[Saints must be specially remembered
in prayer.]

 

           In
praying for others, of all we remember, saints must not be forgot.  The apostle hints this, by making them
the instance for all, as the species famosa—or chief rank of men, for
whom we are to pray; and it suits well with Paul's doctrine elsewhere.  We are here bid ‘As we have
opportunity, let us do good unto all, especially unto them who are of the
household of faith,’ Gal.
6:10.  Now this
of prayer I take to be one of the most eminent ways of doing them good.  What greater kindness can a man do for
his sick friend than to go to the physician for him.  By other acts of charity we give a little out of our own
purse; but, by praying for the poor saints, we open God’s treasury for
them.  If one should meet a beggar,
and out of his purse throw him a few pence; but another tells him, I have no
money of my own to give, yet I will go to court, and open your necessitous
condition to the king my master; it were easy to tell which of these does the
poor man the greatest kindness.  A
poor saint may thus do more for another, though, as Peter told the cripple, he
hath neither silver nor gold to give, than he who hath the largest purse of his
own. That of Araunah is observable, where we have his bountiful offer to king
David: ‘Let my lord the king take and offer up what seemeth good unto him:
behold, here be oxen for burnt‑sacrifice,’ II Sam. 24:22.  This was much, and showed his heart to
be noble and large, as it follows, ‘All these things did Araunah, as a king,
give unto the king,’ ver.
23.  Yet one
thing he did amounted to more than all this, which was his hearty prayer to God
for David's acceptance: ‘And Araunah said to the king, The Lord thy God accept
thee.’  He might have done all the
other for fear; a subject sometimes gives his prince, because he knows he may
take though he gives it not.  But
by his pray­ing for him he discovered his hearty affection to him. There are
several weighty reasons for this duty. 
First. >From God. 
Second. From Satan.  Third.
From the saints prayed for.  And, Fourth.
From the saints praying.

 

[Why believers are to be specially

remembered in
prayer.]

 

           First.  There is a reason taken from God.

           1.
They are the special object of his love; his heart is set upon them, his
thoughts and providence are at work continually for them.  Others indeed do partake of divine
bounty, but they may thank the saints’ company and neighbourhood for it.  When the gardener waters his beds of
flowers, some runs down into the alleys, but had he no flowers he would save
that pains.  When once God hath got
his whole family of saints home to himself in heaven, it will quickly be seen
what God will do with the rest of the world.  God dispenseth the same providence to them both, but not
with the same affection, not to the same end. ‘He is the Saviour of all men,
but especially of those that believe,’ I Tim. 4:10.  He saves the saints with sav­ing
purposes; the wicked he saves temporally, to des­troy them eternally.  He saves them from a present sickness
or danger that they may ripen for hell; as we save our young wood for greater
growth, and then cut it down for the fire.  Now what shall be done for those whom God declares so much
love?  We cannot do less than pray
for them.  By this we comply with
God, and show our content in his choice.

           2.
God hath made them the proper heirs of all his promises.  Now promises are the ground of prayer.
We are to pray for others, though wicked, not  know­ing but God may have a secret purpose of doing them
good.  But when there is grace, hic
se asperit decre­tum—here God breaks open his decree. The fountain of his
electing grace, which ran hitherto underground, now bursts forth; so that now
you may with fuller confidence pray for such a one.  When Paul begs prayers, to encourage his friends at the work
for him, he assures them of his sincerity: ‘Pray for us: for we trust we have a
good conscience, in all things willing to live honestly’ Heb. 13:18.  As if he had said, You pray for one
that God will not chide you for men­tioning.  It is an encouragement for a merchant to ad­venture when he
puts his stock into a good bottom.

           3.
They are a generation that alone honour God in the world.  Indeed God honours himself upon others
in their present lusts and future damnation. He makes their wrath praise him
here, and his wrath poured on them shall praise him hereafter; but no thanks to
them for all this, for they do their utmost to lay the honour of God in the
dirt.  But the saints are a people
who are not merely passive but active in the praising of God; it is their
mother‑language to bless the name of God. 
Whatever is their work, this is their end and aim—‘whether they eat or
drink,’ to ‘do all to the glory of God.’ 
Now, upon this account, we are to pray for saints above others.  The first thing our Saviour teacheth us
to pray for is, that the name of God may be hallowed, in order to which he
directs us in the very next words to pray for his church and saints, as those
who alone can hallow it—‘thy kingdom come.’

           Second.
There is a reason from Satan. 
His great spite is against the saints.  God owns them; therefore he hates them, and spits fire and
brimstone at them. Where God is of one side you may be sure to find the devil
on the other; indeed they are the only company that stand in his way.  As for the wicked, he takes himself to
be advanced when they are exalted in the world; the father is honoured when the
child is pre­ferred.  But the
saints’ rising portends his fall; this makes him bend all his force, by
temptation or perse­cution, to procure their ruin.  these are the stars he would stamp under his feet.  The first murder in the world was of a
saint; and Cain will kill Abel to the end of the world.  In all broils and confusions of na­tions
these are the threatened party, therefore they need our prayers most.

           Third.
There is a reason taken from the saints prayed for.

           1.
They exceedingly desire prayers. 
The wicked, I confess, may do this also, but it is by fits—in a pang of
fear or fright.  Thus Pharaoh sends
in all haste for Moses when the plagues of God are in his house and
fields.  The carnal Jews pray
Samuel to pray for them that they die not; but it was when terrified with dread­ful
thunder and rain that fell, I Sam. 7[7].  Yea, Simon Magus himself, smitten with
horror at Peter’s words, begs his payers, ‘that none of those things which he
had spoken might come upon him.’ 
But at another time these wretches cared neither for the saints nor for
their prayers. Pharaoh, who desired Moses at one time to pray for him, at
another time chases him out of his presence with a charge never to come at him
more.  But now, the saints are very
covetous, yea ambitious, of the auxiliary prayers of their brethren, and those
not the meanest among them neither. 
In­deed, as any is more eminent in grace, so more greedy of his
brethren’s help. The richer the tradesman is, the more he sets at work for him.
Paul himself is not ashamed to beg this boon of the meanest saint.  ‘Now I beseech you, brethren, for the
Lord Jesus’s sake, and for the love of the Spirit, that ye strive together with
me in your prayers to God for me,’ Rom. 15:30. Did you ever hear
a beggar at your door, or prisoner at the gate, beg more passionately?—for the
Lord Jesus’ sake, for the Spirit’s sake. If ever you felt any warmth in your
hearts from the blood of Christ, or love of the Spirit comforting you, strive FL<"(T<­\.,2,,
wrestle with me till we together have the vic­tory, prevailed with God for this
mercy.

           2.
As the saints are covetous of prayers, so they lot upon it that you do pray
for them; yea, take up comfort beforehand from the expectation of what they
shall receive by them.  ‘I know
that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayers,’ Php. 1:19.  ‘I trust that through your prayers I
shall be given unto you,’ Phm.
22.  Where,

           (1.)
Observe Paul’s modesty.  He
sinks and drowns his own prayers, and expresseth his faith on theirs.

           (2.)
His confidence.  He doubts
not but they will pray, neither does he question the happy return of them into
his bosom.  As if he had said, If
ye be faith­ful ye will pray for me. 
So that we break our trust, and disappoint our brethren, if we forget
them.

           3.
Saints are the honest debtors we can deal with; they will pay you in
their own coin.  He that shows any
kindness to a saint is sure to have God for his paymaster; for it is their way
to turn over their debts to God, and engage him to discharge their score to
man.  Onesiphorus had been a kind
friend to Paul, and what does Paul for him?  To prayer he goes, and desires God to pay his debts.  ‘The Lord give mercy unto the house of
Onesiphorus; for he oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain,’ II Tim. 1:16.

           Fourth.
There is a reason taken from the saints praying.  There is no duty God commands but he
pays the Christian well for the performance, and leaves him a loser that
neglects it.  There is enough in
this duty we are speaking to that may make it lovely and desirable in our
eye.  The best of saints have ac­counted
it a great privilege to be admitted into this noble order.  Paul thanks God that ‘without ceasing
he had Timothy in remembrance in his prayers night and day.’  But wherein lies this mercy to have a
heart to pray for our brethren?

           1.
It is a singular mercy to be instrumental to the grace or comfort of any
saint, much more to be instru­mental for the glorifying of God.  This a gracious heart prizeth highly,
though it costs him dear to pro­mote it. 
Now in praying, though but for one single saint, thou dost both.  ‘Ye also helping together by prayer for
us, that for the gift bestowed upon us by the means of many persons thanks may
be given by many on our behalf,’ II Cor. 1:11.  Paul, begging prayers, enforceth his
request with a double argu­ment.

           (1.)
From the prevalency of joint prayers.  When twenty pull at a rope, the strength and force of every
one is influential to the drawing of it; so in prayer, where many concur, all
help.  God looks at every one’s
faith and fervency exerted in the duty, and directs the answer to all.

           (2.)
From the harmony of joint praises. 
The ful­ler the concert in praises, the sweeter the music in God’s
ear.  Joint prayers produce social
praises.  He that concurs to a
prayer, and not in returning praise, is like one that helps his friend into
debt, but takes no care to bring him out.

           2.
By praying for others we increase our own joy. When Paul saw the prayers
which he had sown for the Thessalonian saints, I Thes. 1, come up in
their faith and zeal, he is transported with joy, as an incompar­able mercy
bestowed upon himself: ‘What thanks can we render to God again for you, for all
the joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before our God?’ I Thes. 3:9.  He had watered them with his prayers;
God gives increment to their grace. 
From this his joy flourisheth, and his heart is so ravished, that he
knows not what thanks to God are enough for the mercy he receives through his
hands.  Truly, the rea­son why we
gain no more from the graces of our brethren, is because we venture no more
prayers upon them.

           3.
This would be an undoubted evidence to prove ourselves saints—could we but
heartily pray for them that are such. 
Love to the brethren is oft given as a character of a true saint.  Now, no act whereby we express our love
to saints stands more clear from scruples of insincerity than this of praying
for them. Will you say you love the saints because you frequent their company,
show kindness to their persons, stand up ion their defence against those that
reproach them, or because you suffer with them?  All this is excellent, if sincere; yet how easy is it for
vainglory, or some other carnal end, to mingle with these!  But if thou canst find thy heart in
secret—where none of these temptations have such an advantage to corrupt
thee—let out to God for them with a deep sense and feeling of their sins,
wants, and sorrows, this will speak more for the sincerity of thy love, than
all the former without this.

 

[Use or Application.]

 

           Use
First.  Must we pray above
all for saints? Woe then to those who, instead of praying for them, had
rather with those, Isa.
59:15, make ‘a prey’ of them; that, instead of praying for
them, can curse them, and drink to their confusion.  Haply it is not under the plain name of saints, but as
wrapped up in the bearskin of fanatic, puritan, or some other name of scorn,
invented to cover their malice, so they can devour and tear them in
pieces.  The saints are a sort of
people that none love but those that are themselves such.  It is a good gloss of Jerome, estote
sancti, ut oratis pro sanctis—be saints, and then you will pray for
saints.  The righteous is an
abomination to the wicked: it is a sect everywhere spoken against.  The feud began at first between Abel
and Cain, and so spread over the whole world; one generation takes up the
cudgel against them, as another lays it down. Hamilcar bequeathed his hatred
against the Romans to his son Hannibal when he died.  So is the feud transmitted by the wicked from one generation
to an­other against the saints. 
Nothing can quench their wrath or take up the quarrel;—no moral
perfections, which, were they in others, would be thought lovely. Let the saint
be never so wise, meek, affable, and bountiful, yet this, that he is a
Christian, is a ‘but’ that will blot all in the wicked world's thoughts. Bonus
vir Cajus Sejus, sed malus tantum quod Christianus, was the language in
Tertullian’s age —Cajus Sejus had been a good man if he had not had that
without which he could not be good. 
No near relation can wear off their spite.  Michal cannot bite in her scornful spirit, but jeers her
husband to his face for his zeal before the Lord.

           In
a word, no benefit which accrues to the wicked by the saints’ neighbourhood—and
that is not a little—can make them lay down their hatred.  They are the only bail which God takes
to keep a nation, when under his arrest, out of prison.  They are the cause of blessings to the
families, towns, and king­doms they live in; yet the butt at which their enven­omed
arrows are levelled against.  The
whole city is against Lot; not a man among them to take his part, so true and
constant are the wicked to their own side. Tertullian tells us of some heathen
husbands that liked their wives, though loose and wanton, and lived with them,
when such, before they were converted to Christianity, but when once they had
embraced the faith, and thereby were made chaste, they put them away; fathers
that could bear undutiful rebellious car­riages in their children, when once
converted  and these amended, they
turned them out of doors.  Ut
quisque hoc nomine emendatur, offendit—as any were reformed in their lives
by turning Christian, so he became an offender.  It were will if this were only the heathens’ sin; but by
woeful experience we find that the true Christian hath not more cruel enemies
in the whole world than some be that are of his own name.  The sharpest persecutions of the church
have been by those that were in the church.  O what a dreadful will such have to make in the great day,
who profess the name of Christ, yet hate his nature in the saints!—who call
Christ Lord, yet persecute his best servants and destroy his loyalest subjects!  These are the men that above all other
shall feel the utmost of the Lord’s fiery wrath in the day when he shall plead
his people’s cause and avenge himself on their adversaries.

           Use
Second.  Be exhorted tot his
duty of praying for saints; you cannot do that which God will take more
kindly at your hands.  He himself
puts this petition into our mouths: ‘Ask me of things to come concerning my
sons,’ Isa.
45:11. Courtiers frame their petitions according to their
prince’s liking.  They are careful
not to ask that which he is unwilling to give; but when they perceive he
favours a person or busi­ness, then they are ambitious to present the petition.
Joab knew what he did in sending the woman of Te­koah to David, with a petition
wrapped up in a hand­some parable for Absalom the king’s son.  He knew the king’s heart went strongly
after him, and so the motion could not but be acceptable.  And is not the Lord’s heart gone after
his saints?  Thy prayer for them,
therefore, must needs come in a good time, when it shall find the heart of God
set upon the very thing thou askest. 
This was it that God was so pleased with in Daniel, ch. 9:22, 23.
Now, in your prayers for the saints, among other things that you pray for them,
forget not these:

           1.
Pray for their lives.  They
are such a blessing when they live, that they seldom fall but the earth shakes
under them.  It is commonly a
prognostic of an approaching evil when God takes them away by death.  Jeroboam had but one son in whom some
good was found; he must die, and then the ruin of his father’s family follows, I Kings 14:7.  When Augustine died, then Hippo falls
into the enemy’s hands.  If the
wise man be gone that preserved the city, no wonder if its end hastens. God
makes way to let his judg­ments in upon the world by taking the saints out of
the world.  When God chambers his
children in the grave, a storm is at hand, Isa. 26.  It is, you see, of con­cernment to do
our utmost to keep them among us, especially when their number is so few and
thin al­ready, that we may say, as once the prophet con­cerning Israel, ‘I am
as when they have gathered the summer fruits, as the grape-gleanings of the
vintage,’ Micah
7:1.  Did we
indeed see them come up as thick in our young ones as they fall in the old, we
might say a blessing is in them. 
These would be as hope‑seeds at least for the next generation.  But when a wide breach is made and few
to step into it, this is omi­nous. 
At Moses’ death, Joshua stood up in his place, and it went well with
Israel’s affairs.  But when Joshua
died, and a generation rose up that had not seen the wonders God had done for
his people, and so rebelled, then they to wrack apace, Judges 2:9, 10.

           2.
Pray for their liberty and tranquility.  ‘Pray for the peace of Jerusalem; they shall prosper that
love thee,’ Ps.
122:6.  Jerusalem
was the place for their public worship, ‘whither the tribes go up, the tribes
of the Lord, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the
Lord,’ ver.
4; so that, by praying for Jerusalem’s peace, is meant such
serene times wherein the people of God might enjoy his pure wor­ship without
disturbance.  The church hath
always had her vicissitudes; sometimes fair and sometimes foul weather, but her
winter commonly longer than her summer; yea, at the same time that the sun of
peace brings day to one part of it, another is wrapped up in a night of
persecution.  Universal peace over
all the churches is a great rarity; and where it is in any part of it enjoyed,
some unkind cloud or other soon interposeth.  The church’s peace therefore is set out by a half-hour’s
silence, Rev.
8:1.  When God
gave the poor Jews ‘a reviving,’ after a tedious captivity, by moving Cyrus to
grant them liberty to go and rebuild the house of God, how soon did a storm
rise and beat them from their work! 
One prince furthers them, another obstructs the work.  The gospel church Acts 9,
had a sweet breathing time of peace; but how long did it last? this short calm
went before a sudden hurri­cane of persecution that falls upon them, Acts 12.
Thus have the politic rulers of the world used the saints, as their carnal
interest seemed to require; one while to countenance, another while to
suppress, them.  No sort of people
in the world can expect less favour from the world than the church; their only
safety therefore lies to engage God to espouse their cause.

           3.
Pray for their love and unity among them­selves.  The persecutor’s sword—blessed be
God!—is not at the church’s throat among us.  But are not Christians at daggers’ drawing amongst
themselves? The question in our days hath oft been asked, Why the word
preached—being as frequent, clear, and powerful as any former age ever enjoyed
in this nation —hath been no more effectual to convert the wicked or to edify
the saints?  I will not say this is
the sole reason, but I dare deliver it as none of the least causes—and that is
the woeful divisions and rents amongst those that have made greatest profession
of the truth.

           (1.)
For the saints.  It is no
wonder they should thrive no more under the word, for the body of Christ is
edified in love, Eph.
4.  So long as
there is a fever upon the body it can­not nourish.  The apostles them­selves, when wrangling, got little good by
Christ’s ser­mon, or the sacrament itself administered by Christ unto
them.  One would have thought that
such was a meal in the strength whereof, as so many Elijahs, they might have
gone a long journey.  But, alas! we
see how weak  they rise from it.  One denies his master, and the rest in
a fright forsake him; so unfit were they in such a temper to make a spiritual
advantage of the best of means.

           (2.)
Again, for the wicked.  It
is no wonder that the word prevails no more on them.  The divisions and scandals that have arisen among those that
call themselves saints have filled their hearts with preju­dice against the
holy truths and ways of God. 
Christ prays for his people’s unity: ‘That the world may believe,’ saith
he, ‘that thou hast sent me,’ John 17:21.  What is oftener in the mouths of many
profane wretches than this—We will believe them when they are all of one mind,
and come over to them when they can agree among themselves? Who loves to put
his head into a house on fire? 
This should, methinks, stir up all that wish well to the gospel to pray,
and that instantly, for the reunion of their divided hearts. Hot disputes will
not do it; prayer, or nothing can. 
Pliny saith of the pearls called uniones, that their nature,
though they be engendered in the sea, par­takes of the heavens more than the
earth.  ‘The God of peace’ can only
see us at peace.  If ever we be
wise to agree, we must borrow our wisdom from above; this alone is ‘pure and
peaceable.’

 

 

 

THIRD
PROPOSITION.

 

[In praying for
saints, we must comprehend ‘all.’]

 

           In
praying for saints, we must be careful to com­prehend and encircle all
saints.  I do not mean, as the
Papists, for quick and dead. 
Prayer is a means to wait upon them in their way; at death, then they
are at their journey’s end. 
Prayers are bootless for the dead sinner, and needless for the deceased
saint.  The wicked in that state
are beneath, the saint above, our prayers.  We cannot help the wicked.  The tree is fall­en, and so it must lie.  We read of a change the body shall have
after death.  Vile bodies may, but
filthy souls cannot, after  death
be made glorious.  If they go off
the body filthy, so they shall meet it at the resurrection.  The time to  pray for them is now while they live among you, or never;
for death and hell come together to the sinner.  No sooner Dives’ wretched soul is forced out of his body,
but you hear it shriek in hell, ‘The rich man also died, and was buried; and in
hell he lift up his eyes, being in torment,’ Luke 16:22, 23.  But Abraham tells him ‘there is a gulf
fixed,’ that forbids all intercourse betwixt heaven and him.  No what is that but an irrevocable
decree with which the wicked are sealed under ever­lasting wrath?  If God receive no prayers from them,
then not from others for them.  And
as the wicked are beyond our help, so the saints above all need of our help;
for they are in their port and haven. 
Prayer implies want, but saints departed are perfect, called therefore
‘the spirits of just men made perfect.’ 
We need not beg a pardon for them, for the Lord acquits them—they are
‘just;’ not for a supply of any good they want, they are ‘made perfect;’ not to
remove any pain they feel, for ‘the Spirit saith, Blessed are they that die in
the Lord, they rest from their labours.’ But they who invented this device
intended, it is like, gain to their own purse, rather than benefit to others’
souls.  It is a pick‑purse
doctrine, contrived to bring grist to the pope’s mill.  But, to leave this, they are the living
saints, your companions here in tribulation, that are the subject of
your prayers, and of these we are to encircle the whole community within our re­membrance.  The Papists speak much of a treasury
the church hath.  This indeed is
the true treasury of the church—the common stock of prayers with which they all
trade to heaven for one another. 
Paul tells us what a large heart he had, even for those whose ‘face he
never saw in the flesh,’ Col.
1:2.  Take a few
rea­sons for the point.

 

[Why in praying on behalf of saints we
are to

comprehend ‘all.’]

 

           Reason First. We are to love all
saints, there­fore to pray for all. 
Love in a saint is the picture of God's love to us; and God’;s love
looks not asquint to one saint more than another.  That image is not of God’s drawing which is not like
himself.  Nature may err in its
productions, but not God in the grace he begets in his saint’s bosom.  The new creature never wants its true
nature.  If God loves all his
children, then wilt thou all thy brethren, or not one of them. When Paul commends
Christians for this grace of love, he doth it from this note of universality, Eph. 1:15;
‘After I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus, and love unto all the saints;’ so Col. 1:4; Phm. 5.  Now, if we love all, we cannot but pray
for all.  To say we love one, and
not pray for him, is a solecism. 
Can a courtier love his friend and not speak to his prince for him, when
he may do him a favour by it?  Love
prompts a man to do that wherein he may express the greatest kindness to his
friend.  Mary pours the most
precious ointment she hath upon Christ. Prayer, if of the right composition, is
the most precious ointment thou canst bestow on the saints.  Save it not for some few of them that
are of thy private society or particular acquaintance; but let the sweet odour
of it fill the whole house of the church; pray for all.

           Reason Second. We are to pray for all
saints, because Christ prays for all.  He carries all their names in his breastplate.  ‘Neither pray I for these alone, but
for them also which shall believe on me through their word.’  He leaves not one of the num­ber out of
his remembrance.  The elder brother
was priest to the whole family; so is Christ, our elder brother, to the whole
household of believers.  Now
Christ’s intercession is a pattern for our prayers.  We cannot indeed pray for all as he doth.  He prays for them not only in the lump,
but for every individual saint by name: ‘I have prayed,’ Peter, ‘for thee,’ Luke 22:32;
yea, not only for every person by name, but for their particular wants and
occasions.  ‘I have prayed that thy
faith fail not.’  Christ takes
notice of that very grace which was in most imminent danger, and se­cures it by
his intercession.  O what
unspeakable comfort is this to a saint, that he in particular should be spoken
of in heaven, and every want or temptation he laboureth with be taken notice
of, and pro­vided for, by Christ’s mediation!  Thus indeed we cannot pray for all, because we know but few
of their persons, and little of the state and condition of those we know.
Neither is there need we should. 
Our general suffrage and vote is as kindly taken as if we could descend
to particular instances.  God knows
the mind of the Spirit, in our prayers on earth, to be for the same things
which Christ insisteth on in his intercession in heaven.

           Reason Third. We must pray for all
saints, or else we can pray for none.

           1.
We cannot pray really for any, if not for all. He that prays for one
saint and desires not good to another, prays not for that one as a saint, but
under some other consideration, as wife, friend, child, or the like—a saint
clothed with such and such circum­stances; for à quatenus ad omne valet
consequentia —he that loves a man, because a  man, loves all, because the same human nature is found in
all; and all saints have the same nature.

           2.
We cannot pray acceptably for one, except for all; and so we wrong those
for whom we do pray, by leaving them out for whom we also should.  Joseph would not hear the patriarchs
for Simeon’s release till they brought Benjamin over to him also.  If thou wouldst be welcome to God in
praying for any, carry all thy brethren to him in thy devotions; leave none
behind.  ‘Are here all thy
children?’ said Samuel to Jesse. He would not sit down till the stripling David
was fetched to complete the company. 
May be thou art earnest in prayer for thy hear neighbour Chris­tians, but
dost thou not forget others that are further off?  Thou rememberest the church of God at home, but dost thou
lay the miseries of the churches abroad to heart?  What if God should ask thee now, Are here all thy
brethren?  Are there none but these
that live under thy eye to be remembered? 
Have not I chil­dren, and you brethren, elsewhere in the world to be
thought upon?  The Jews in Babylon
were not to for­get Jerusalem because of the great distance. ‘Remember the Lord
afar off, and let Jerusalem come into your mind,’ Jer. 51:50.

 

[Use or Application.]

 

           Use
First. O what a rich merchant is the saint, who hath a stock going in so
many hands!  In heaven Christ
is hard at prayer for him, on earth his breth­ren.  What can this man want?  Christ hath such an interest in his Father’s heart, that he
can deny him nothing; the saints such interest in Christ, that he will not deny
them.  So the Christian’s trade
goes smoothly on in both worlds. 
Think of this, Christian, for thy comfort—wherever a child of God is living
upon earth, there hast thou a factor to traffic with heaven for thy good.  Let this help thy faith in putting up
thy own private prayers, knowing that thou prayest in a communion and
fellowship with others.  Even when
thou art alone in thy closet, expect an answer to more than thy own
prayer.  It is an uncharitableness
not to pray for others, and pride not to expect a benefit from the prayers of
others.

           Use
Second. It teacheth us how inquisitive we should be of the affairs of
our brethren and state of the church, that so we may pray with a more
bowelly sense of their wants for them. 
Nehemiah, when he heard of some that were come out of Judea, inquires
how it fared with his brethren there? and from the sad report he heard of their
afflictions and reproach­es is put into a bitter passion, which he emptied,
with prayers and tears for them, into the bosom of God, Neh. 1:4.  How could he have done this so
feelingly, had he not first been acquainted with their distressed condition?  We are many of us asking oft, ‘What
news?’ and reading books of intelligence, foreign and national; but is it as
Athenians, or as Christians? to fill our heads, or to affect our hearts? to
furnish us with matter of chat and talk by the fireside with our neighbours, or
of prayer to our God?

           Use
Third. Labour to get a wide heart in prayer for all the saints.  God, it is said, gave Solomon a large
heart of knowledge and wisdom, as the sand of the sea, I Kings 4;29.  Behold a mercy greater than that to
Solomon is here.  A large heart is
better than a large head—to do good, than to know it.  Nothing is more unworthy than a selfish spirit; no
selfishness worse than that which is vented in prayer.  A heathen could blame that Athenian who
in a drought prayed for his own city, saying, ‘O Jupiter, rain upon the fields
of the Athenians,’ but forgot that his neighbours wanted as well as
himself.  Many heathens were great
admirers of this virtue of charity. 
Take one instance for all. 
It was a law among the Romans that none should come near the emperor’s
tent in the night up­on pain of death. 
Now, there was one night a certain soldier apprehended, standing near
the emperor’s tent with a petition to deliver unto him, who was therefore
presently to be executed; but the emperor, hearing the noise from within his
pavilion, called out, saying, ‘If it be for himself, let him die; if for
another, spare his life.’  Being
examined, it was found his pe­tition was for two of his fellow-soldiers that
were taken asleep on the watch.  So
both he escaped death and they punishment.  Was this office of charity so pleasing to an earthly prince
as to dispense with a law for its sake? 
O how acceptable then to our merciful God is it to intercede for our
fellow-saints!  But the more to
provoke you to the exercise of this duty in its full breadth and latitude—viz.
for all saints —consider,

           1.
This praying for all saints will prove thy love to saints sincere.  A man, in praying for himself or his
relations, stands not at that advantage to see the actings of pure grace, as
when he prays for such as have not these carnal dependencies on him.  When thou prayest for thyself in want
or sickness, how knowest thou that it is any more than the natural cry of the
creature?  Is it for thy family
thou prayest? Still thy flesh hath an interest in the work, and may help to
quicken thee—if it be not the chief spring to set thee agoing.  But when thy heart beats strongly with
a sense of any other's misery, that hath nothing to move thee, but his Christianity
to be his remem­brancer, and thou canst in secret plead with God for him as
feelingly as if thou didst go on thy own errand, truly thou breathest a
gracious spirit.

           2.
As it will speak for the truth of thy grace, so for the height and vigour of
it.  It is corruption that
contracts our hearts.  They were
none of the best Christians of whom Paul gives this character, ‘They sought
their own,’ Php.
2:21.  As the
heart advanceth in grace, so it widens and grows more public‑spirited. The
higher a man ascends a hill the larger his pros­pect.  One that stands upon the ground cannot look over the next
hedge; his eye is confined within the compass of his own wall.  Thus the carnal spirit thinks of none
but his own estate or stake, feels not the water till it comes into  his  own cabin; whereas grace cleaves the soul, and the more
grace a man hath, the more it will enable to look from himself over into the
condition of his brethren.  Such a
one partakes of the nature of the heavenly bodies, which shed their influences
down upon the whole world. Especially this would speak grace high in its
actings, if these circumstances concur with it:

           (1.)
When a person is himself swimming in abundance of all enjoyments, and can
then lay aside his own joy to weep and mourn for and with any afflicted saints,
though at never so great a distance from them.  Thus did Nehemiah for his brethren at Jerusalem, when
himself was in a warm nest and had all the enjoyments that so great a prince's
court could afford.  It is not
usual for any but those of great grace to feel the cords of the church’s
afflictions through a bed of down on which themselves lie.  It must be a David that can prefer
Jerusalem above his chief joy.

           (2.)
On the other hand, when in the depth of our own personal troubles and
miseries, we can yet reserve a large room in our prayers for any other saints,
this speaks a great measure of grace. 
It showed the Romans’ strength and courage to be great, that they could
spare several legions to send into Spain for the help of their friends there,
while Hanni­bal was near their own walls with a puissant army.  To be able to lend auxiliary prayers to
other afflicted saints, or abroad to the church of God, when thou thyself art
engaged deeply with private sorrows, does signify a very gracious spirit.

           (3.)
When, in our own distresses, we can entertain the tidings of any other
saint's mercies with joy and thankfulness.  This requires great grace in­deed, to act two so contrary
parts well at the same time.  The
prosperity of others too oft breeds envy and discontent in them that want
it.  If therefore thou canst praise
God for others’ mercies, while the tears stand in thy eyes for thy own
miseries, it is a rare temper; flesh and blood never learned thee it thou mayest
be sure.

           To
shut up this with a caution—though we are to pray for all saints, yet some
call for a more special remembrance at our hands.

           (a)
Those that are near to us by other relations. First, by bond of nature
as well as of grace: ‘A brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more
unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord?’ Phm. 16.  It is true the bond of the Spirit is
more sacred than that of the flesh—sanctior est copula cordis quàm cor­poris;
yet, when that of the flesh is twisted with the other, it adds, as force to the
affection, so argument to the duty; therefore saith Paul, ‘much more unto
thee.’  Charity may begin, though
it must not end, at home.  Again,
by domestic relation, society and com­munion, whether civil or religious—these
give an enforcement to the duty; master for servant, and servants for masters;
minister for people, and people for minister.  He that starves his family is not like to feast his
neighbours.  He that is a churl to
his neigh­bours, is not like to be overkind to strangers.  So he that prays not for those who by
these relations stand so near to him, is very unlike to abound in this duty for
others.

           (b)
Those that are in distress. 
Whoever you for­get, remember these.  If one be sick in our family, we will send him his portion
before we carve for any that are at the table.  This is a fit season for love.  A friend for adversity is as proper as fire is for a
winter’s day. Job's friends chose the right time to visit him in, but took not
the right course of improving their visit.  Had they spent the time in prayer for him which they did in
hot disputes with him, they had profited and pleased God more.  Again, this is the season that the
tempter is busy.  This lion walks
abroad in the night of affliction, hoping then to make the Christian his
prey.  And if he wakes to make a
prey of him, shall not we watch to pray for him?  Again, this is the sea­son of God’s most speedy answering
prayers.  ‘In the day when I cried
thou answeredst me,’ Ps.
138:3; that is, in the day of affliction.  Indeed now is the time when  the Spirit of Christ will be stirring
us up to pray.  And when should we
send our letters but when the post calls? 
He that stirs thee up to pray for them, will be as careful to deliver up
thy prayers and see an answer returned.

           (c)
Such of the saints as are of a public place and use.  You pray for many here while you pray
for one.

           (d)
Such as have expressly desired and engaged you to remember them at the
throne of grace.  Among debts,
specialties are paid in the first place. 
Thou art a debtor to all thy brethren, and owest them a re­membrance in
thy prayers; but more especially them to whom thou hast particularly promised
it.  This is, as it were, a bond
under thy hand, given for further security of paying this debt to thy
friend.  Whoever thou forgettest,
remember him.  Did the butler’s con­science
accuse him for not remembering his promise to Joseph, who had engaged him—when
he was restored to court—to intercede with Pharaoh for him?  ‘I do,’ saith he, ‘remember my faults
this day,’ Gen.
41:9.  Much more
hast thou cause to confess thy faults, who forgettest to make mention of them
to the Lord that have solemnly desired it at thy hands.  To have promised the payment of a sum
of money, and to have failed, were not greater dishonesty.  Thou mayest prejudice his soul more by
disappointing him of thy prayer, than his estate could suffer for want of thy
money.  How knowest thou but the
mercy he wants is stopped while [until] thy prayers come to heaven for it?  That other saints obtain by their
prayers for us what sometimes we do not by our own is clear from Job 42:8.

 

 

 

 

[1]CLOUT, n. 1. A patch; a
piece of cloth or leather, &c., to close a breach.

2.  A piece of cloth for mean purposes.

—From Webster’s

[2]Precedaneous:
(Pre`ce*da"ne*ous) a. Preceding; ante­cedent; previous. [Obs.] Hammond.
— From Websters’s

[3]Familist: — member of Family
Of Love, religious sect of Dutch origin, followers of Hendrik Niclaes, a
16th-century Dutch merchant. 
Niclaes’ main activity was in Emden, East Friesland (1540-60).  In his Evangelium regni, issued
in England as A Joyfyl Message of the King­dom, he invited all “lovers
of truth, of what nation and religion soever they be, Christian, Jews,
Mahomites, or Turks, and heathen,” to join in a great fellowship of peace, the
Family of Love, giving up all contention over dogma and seeking to be
incorporated into the body of Christ.

 

[4]Exsuscitation:—Ex*sus`ci*ta"tion
) n. [L. exsusci­tatio.] 
A stirring up; a rousing.

— From Webster’s

[5]causey: — a raised path or
road as across wet ground.

—SDB

[6]Gust: — taste; relish; flavour;
savour.

[7]I Sam 7:9-11.  But also see I Sam 12:14-19; which
seems to fit Gurnall’s context better. —
SDB

Direction
Twelfth.

 

 

The
Duty of every Christian in complete Armour to aid by Prayer

the
Public Ministers of Christ.

 

 

‘And for me,
that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly,

to make
known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in bonds’

(Eph. 6:19,
20).

 

 

           The
apostle having laid out this duty of prayer in its full compass, taking all
saints within its circum­ference, he comes now to apply the general rule, and
claims a share in it himself—‘and for me.’  When he bids them pray ‘for all saints,’ he surely cannot be
shut out of their prayers who is not the least in the number.  In the words there are four
branches.  FIRST. Here is an exhortation,
or Paul’s request for himself, and in him for all ministers of the gospel—‘and
for me.’  SECOND. The matter
of his request—‘that utterance may be given unto me.’  Not that he would confine and determine
them in their prayers to this request alone; but he propounds it as a principal
head to be insisted on by them on his behalf.  THIRD. The end why he desires this—‘that I may
open my mouth boldly, to make known the mystery of the gospel.’  FOURTH. A double argument to
back and enforce this request—‘for which I am an ambassador in bonds’—First. Taken from his office.  Second.
From his present afflicted state.

 

BRANCH FIRST.

 

[The request of Paul as a minister of
Christ,

for the prayers of
believers.]

 

‘And for
me.’

 

           Here
is an exhortation, or Paul’s request for himself, and in him for
all ministers of the gospel—‘and for me.’  First. We may
note here that people are to be taught the duty they owe to their minister as
well as to others.  Second. It is not only our duty to pray
for others, but also to desire the prayers of others for ourselves.  Third.
We may note that the ministers of the gospel are, in an especial manner, to be
remembered in the saints’ prayers.

           First.  We may note here that people are to be taught the duty
they owe to their minister as well as to others; though indeed no duty is
harder for the minister to press or for the people to hear—for him to preach
with humility and wisdom, or for them to receive without prejudice.

 

[It is our duty as
well
to desire the prayers

of
others, as
to pray for them.]

 

           Second. It is not only our duty to pray
for others, but also to desire the prayers of others for our­selves.  If a Paul turns beggar, and desires the
remem­brance of others for him, who then needs it not?  This hath been the constant practice of
the saints.  Sometimes they call in
the help of their brethren upon special occasions to pray with them.  Thus Daniel, ch. 2:18, when
required to interpret the king’s dream, makes use of ‘Hananiah, Mishael,’ and
‘Azariah, his companions.’  ‘Then
Daniel went to his house, and made the thing known to these that they would
desire mercies of the God of heaven concern­ing this secret.’  Daniel would not give an answer to the
king till he had got an answer from God. 
To prayer therefore he goes. 
No doubt he forgot not his errand in his closet when at his solitary
devotions; but withal he calls in help to join in social prayer with him.  He sends for them to his house; where,
it is probable, they prayed together, for the mutual quick­ening of their
affections and strengthening of their petition by this their united force.  Wherefore, he ac­knowledgeth the mercy
as an answer to their con­current prayers: ‘I thank thee, and praise thee, O
thou God of my fathers, who hast made known unto me now what we desired of
thee,’ ver.
23.  This justifies the saints’ practice
when, in any great strait of temp­tation or affliction, they get some other of
the faithful to give a lift with them at this duty.  Sometimes we have them desiring their brethren’s prayers for
them when they cannot conveniently have it with them. Thus Esther sets the Jews
in Shushan to prayer for her, Est. 4:16; so our apostle in many of his epistles
desires the saints to carry his name with them to the throne of grace, Rom. 15:30; II Cor.
1;10, 11; Col. 4:3; Php. 1:19. 
And not without great reason, for,

           First.
God hath made it a debt which one saint owes to another to carry their
names to a throne of grace.  Now,
not to desire this debt to be paid, which God hath charged our brethren with,
is to undervalue the mercy and goodness of our God.  Should a legacy be left us by a friend, were it not a
despising of his kindness not to call upon the heir who is to pay it? Surely
God accounts he doth us a kindness herein, and therefore may take it ill not to
ask for it.  It is not our usage to
lose a debt for want of a demand, and this is none of the least we have owing
to us.

           Second.  Many are the gracious promises that
are made to such prayers of the faithful one for another.  ‘If any man see his brother sin a sin
which is not unto death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life for them,’ I John 5:16.  But you will say, How can the prayer of
one obtain the forgiveness for another? I answer, None is forgiven for the
faith of another; this must be personal; but the believing fervent prayer of
one is an excellent means to obtain the grace of repentance and faith for
another, whereby he may come to be forgiven.  So, ‘Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for
another, that ye may be healed,’ James 5:16.  Now, in not desiring our breth­ren’s help in this kind, we
make no use of these promises—the proper end of which is to encourage us to
call in the auxiliary aid of others—as if such pas­sages of Scripture might
have been well spared for any need we have of them.  Should you see a piece of ground never sown nor fed, you
might well say the ground is barren or the owner a bad husband; either the promise
is empty and useless, or we that do not improve it are worse husbands for our
souls.  But we cannot say so of the
promise, if we consider the great fruit and advantage which the saints in all
ages have reaped from it.  Did not
Daniel get the knowledge of a great secret as a return of his companions’
prayers with him?  Did not Job’s
friends escape a great judg­ment that hung over their heads at his
intercession? What a miraculous deliverance had Peter at the prayers of a few
saints gathered together on his be­half! 
Bring not therefore an evil report upon this promise, seeing such sweet
clusters as these are to be shown that have been gathered from it.

           Third.  If we desire not others to carry our
name to a throne of grace, we are guilty of quenching the Spirit of prayer;
which may be done in ourselves and others also.

           1.
By this we may quench it in ourselves.  Partly, because we neglect a duty.  We are bid to ‘confess our sins one to another,’ and for
what end but to have the benefit of mutual prayers?  The same Spirit which stirs thee up to pray for thyself will
excite thee in many cases to set others at prayer for thee; which, if thou dost
not, thou overlayest his motions, and so committest a sin.  Again, thou quenchest the Spirit of prayer
in thyself by depriving thyself of that assistance which thou mightest receive
in thy own prayers through theirs; for the Spirit conveys his quickening grace
to us in the use of instruments and means.  He that doth not hear the word preached quenches his Spirit,
because God useth this as bellows to blow up and enkindle the saint’s
grace.  So, he that desires not the
prayers of others quencheth the Spirit of prayer in himself, because the
exercise of their grace in prayer for thee may fetch down more grace to be
poured in unto thee.

           2.
Thou mayest be accessory to the quenching of the Spirit in others,
because thou hinderest the acting of those graces in them which would have been
drawn forth in prayer for thee hadst thou acquainted them with thy
condition.  Fire is quenched by
subtracting fuel as well as by throwing on water.  By opening thy wants or desires to thy brethren thou feedest
Spirit of prayer in them, as they have new matter administered to work upon; by
acquainting them with the merciful providences of God to thee, thou prickest a
song of praise for them.  How many
groans and sighs should God in prayer have had from thy neighbour-saints hadst
thou not bit in thy temptations and afflictions from their knowledge!  What peals of joy and thank­fulness
would they have rung hadst thou not con­cealed thy mercies from them!

           Fourth.  We are to desire others to pray for us,
to express the humble sense we have of our own weakness, and the need we
have of others’ help. Humble souls are fearful of their own strength.  They that have little, desire partners
with them in their trade; but when they conceit their own private stock to be
sufficient, then they can trade by themselves. ‘Now are ye full, now are ye
rich; ye have reigned as kings without us,’ saith Paul of the self-conceited
Cor­inthians.  The time was you
thought you had need of Paul’s preaching to you and praying for you, but now ye
reign without us!  O how many are
there, when time was, could beg prayers of every Christian they met! Nothing
but wants and complaints could be heard from them, which made them beg help
from all they knew to pray their corruptions down and their graces up.  But now they have left the beggar’s
trade, and reign in an imaginary kingdom of their self-conceited sufficiency.  Certainly, as it shows want of charity
not to pray for others, so no want of pride not to desire prayers from
others.

           Fifth.  We are to desire others to pray for us,
that we may prevent Satan’s designs against us.  He knows very well what an advantage he
hath upon the Christian when severed from his company; wherefore he labours
what he can to hinder the conjunction of his solitary prayers with the
auxiliary aid his brethren might lend him.  Samson’s strength lay not in a single hair but his whole
lock; the saint’s safety lies in com­munion, not in solitude and single
devotion.  How many, alas!
concealing their temptations from others, have found their sorrows grow upon
them after all their own private endeavours and wrestlings in secret against
them? like one who, when his house is on fire, tries to quench it himself, but
is not able, and so haz­ards the loss of all he hath for want of timely calling
his neighbours to his help.

           Sixth.
The love we owe to our brethren requires that we should desire others to
pray for us.  The saints here live
where none else love them but them­selves, therefore they need not make much of
one another.  Now this of desiring
their prayers carries a threefold expression of love to them.

           1.
By this we acknowledge the grace of God in our brethren, or else it is
supposed we would not em­ploy them in such a work.  He that desires a friend to present a petition to the king
on his behalf, shows he believes him to be in favour, and one that hath some
interest in the prince.  Now, what
more honourable testimony can we give to another than to own him as a child of
God, one whose prayers are welcome to heaven?  We are bid to ‘prefer every one his brother in honour.’  Now no one way can we do this more than
by making use of their help at the throne of grace to be our remembrancers to the
Lord.

           2.
By this we do our utmost to interest our brethren in the mercy we desire
them to pray for. Were a merchant to send some commodity to Turkey or Spain
which he knows will make a gainful return, it would be a great favour to take
others into partner­ship with him in the adventure.  And what voyage is gainful like this of prayer? and whoever
shares in the duty is partner in the mercy.

           3.
By this we confirm them in a confidence of our readiness to pray for them.  What consists good neighbourhood in but
a readiness to reciprocate kind­nesses one to another?—when that is at the
service of one neighbour which is in the house of another?  Now, who will be bold or free with his
neighbour to take a kindness from him that is not willing to receive the like?  Be ye strange to your friend, and you
teach him to be so to yourself. 
Nothing endears Christians more in love than an open heart one to
another.  A friend should have no
cabinet in his bosom to which he allows not his friend a key.

           Objection
(1.)  But do we not, by
desiring our fellow-saints’ prayers, intrench upon Christ’s media­tory
office?

           Answer.  No; surely Christ would not command
that which would be a wrong to himself.  There is great difference betwixt our desiring Christ to
pray for us and our fellow-brethren. 
We desire Christ to pre­sent our persons and prayers, expecting
acceptation of both through his blood and intercession.  But no such matter from the prayers of
our brethren; we only desire them as friends to bear us company to the throne
of grace, there to present our prayers in a communion together, expecting the
welcome of both their and our prayers, not from them, but from Christ —relying
on Christ to procure the welcome both to our prayers and theirs at our heavenly
Father’s hand.

           Objection
(2.)  But why, then, may we
not desire the prayers of the deceased saints for the same purpose we
desire the prayers of those that yet live with us?

           Answer
(1.)  We have no precept or
example for this in the word; and unbidden there in duties of worship, is
forbidden.  We must not be ‘wise
above what is written.’  Not to use
the means which God hath appointed is a great sin, which was Ahaz’s case; but
to invent ways or means more than God hath appointed is far worse.  It is bad enough for a subject not to
keep the king’s laws, but far worse for him to presume to mint a law of his own
head.  The first is undutiful, but
the latter is a traitor.

           Answer
(2.)  We have no way of
expressing our thoughts and desires to the saints departed.  Why should we pray to them that cannot
hear what we say? or where is the messenger to send our minds by? or which the
word in Scripture that saith they hear in heaven what we pray on earth?

           Answer
(3.)  It is the prerogative of
Christ to be the only agent in heaven for his saints on earth.  ‘To which of the angels or saints did
God say, ‘Sit thou at my right hand?’ In the outward temple we find the whole
congregation praying, but into the holy of holi­est entered none but the high
priest with his perfume. Every saint is a priest to offer up prayers for
himself and others on earth; but Christ only as our High-priest intercedes in
heaven for us.  The glorious an­gels
and saints there no doubt wish well to the church below; but it is Christ’s
office to receive the incense of his militant saints’ prayers, which they send
up from this outward temple here below to heaven, and to offer it with all
their desires to God; so that, to employ any in heaven besides Christ to pray
for us, is to put Christ out of office.

 

[Use or Application.]

 

           Use
First.  It reproves those
into whose hearts it never yet came to beg prayers for their own souls.
Surely they are great strangers to themselves, and ig­norant what a privilege
they lose!  As Christ said to the
woman of Samaria, If thou hadst known the gift of God, and who it is that asks,
thou wouldst have asked, and he would have given.  Did poor souls know who the saints are—what favourites with
God, and how prevalent their prayers are with him—they would not willingly be
left out of their remembrance. I never knew any but, as soon as God began to
work upon them—though it were no more than to awaken their consciences—thought
this worth the desiring.  It is
natural for man in straits to crave help. 
A servant or a child, when master or father are displeased and blows are
threatened, if they know any that have interest in their favour, and are more
likely to prevail with them than others, then they entreat such to be­come
suitors for them.  When hunger and
want pinch the poor, then, if they have any neighbour to be their friend, to
speak to the parish for them, he shall soon hear of them.  Now, were the sense of their wants or
troubles of a higher nature, would they not be as earn­est to desire prayers
for their souls as now they are to beg bread for their bodies?  Well, you that fear God, and live among
such, do your duty, though they have not hearts to desire it at your hands,
pray over their stupid souls before the Lord.  When a friend is sick, and his senses are gone, you do not
stay to send for the physician till he comes to himself and is able to desire
you to do it for him.  You had need
make the more haste to God for such as these, lest they go away in this
apoplexy of conscience, and so be past praying for.

           Use
Second. It reproves those who desire prayers of God’s people, but
hypocritically; and they are such as set others on work, but pray not for
them­selves—a certain sign of a naughty heart.  Thus pharaoh often called for Moses to pray for him and his
land; but we read not that ever he made any ad­dress himself to God, but
thought it enough to send another on his errand; whereas a gracious soul will
be sure to meet him he employs at the work.  ‘I beseech you,’ saith Paul, ‘to strive together with me’ in
your prayers to God for me.  He did
not slip the collar off his own neck to put it on another’s, but drew together
with them in it; else they that pray for thee may pray the mercy away from
thee.

           Use
Third.  It reproves such as
desire prayers of others, but it is only in some great pinch.  If their chariot is set fast in some
deep slough of affliction, then they send in all haste for some to draw
them out with their prayer, who, at another time, change their thoughts of the
saints’ prayers, yea, and of God him­self.  The frogs once gone, and Moses hears no more of Pharaoh till
another plague rubs up his memory. Moses hears not Pharaoh cry till Pharaoh
hears the frogs croak.  Thus, as
they say of coral, it is soft in the water where it grows, and hard when taken
out; many, their consciences are soft and tender whilst sleeping in affliction,
but hard and stout when that is removed. Pharaoh that so oft called Moses up to
prayer, at last could not endure the sight of him, but forewarned him for ever
coming in his sight.  O take heed
of this! When once the wretch came to that pass, and so strangely changed his
note as to drive Moses from him, that had so often bailed and rescued him out
of the hands of divine vengeance, then he had not long to live, for he removed
the very dam, and lift up the sluice to let in ruin upon himself.

           Use
Fourth.  It reproves such as
desire others to pray for them, but vaingloriously—to gain a reputa­tion
for religion.  Beware of this; yet
charge not all for the hypocrisy of some, neither deprive thyself of the
benefit of others' prayers out of an imaginary fear lest thou shouldst play the
hypocrite therein. Watch thy heart, but waive not the duty.  Because some have strangled themselves
with their own garters, wilt thou therefore be afraid to wear thine?  Or because some canting beggars go
about the country to show their sores, which they desire not to have cured,
wilt not thou therefore, when wounded, go to the chirurgeon?

 

[Ministers of the gospel have a
special claim

on the prayers of
believers.]

 

           Third.  From this request of the apostle we may note that the
ministers of the gospel are, in an especial manner, to be remembered in the
saints’ prayers; and that,

           First.  In regard of God, whose message they
bring.  They come about his
work and deliver his er­rand.  Not
to pray for them will be interpreted you wish not well to the business they
have in hand for him.  They do not
only come from God, but with Christ. 
‘We then, as workers together with him, be­seech you also that ye
receive not the grace of God in vain,’ II Cor. 6:1.  Christ and the minister go into the pulpit together.  A greater than man is there; master and
servant are both at work.

           Again,
the blessing of the minister’s labour is from God; not the hand that sets the
plant or sows the seed, but God’s blessing, gives the increase, I Cor. 3:6.  When Melancthon was first converted,
the light of the gospel shone so clear and strong a beam on his own eyes, that
he thought he should convert all he preached unto.  He deemed it was impossible his hearers should withstand
that truth which he saw with so much evidence; but he afterwards found the con­trary,
which made him say, ‘I see now that the old Adam is too hard for the young
Melancthon.’  God carries the key
by his girdle that alone can open hearts, and prayer is the key to open
his.  When Christ intended to send
forth his disciples to preach the gospel, he sets them solemnly to prayer, Matt. 9:38.  Many are the promises which he hath
given to the ministers of the gospel for their protection—that he will keep
these stars in his right hand, or else they had been on the ground and stamped
under foot long ere this—for their assistance and success in the work: ‘I will
be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say,’ Ex. 4:12.  ‘Go ye therefore, and teach all na­tions...I
am with you alway, unto the end of the world,’ Matt. 28:19, 20. Wherefore
are these promises, but to be shot back again in prayers to God that gave them?

           Second.  In regard of the ministers
themselves. There is not a greater object of pity and prayer in the whole
world than the faithful ministers of Christ; if you consider,

           1.
The importance of their work. 
It is temple work, and that is weighty; which made Paul, that had the
broadest shoul­ders of all his brethren, cry out, ‘Who is sufficient for these
things?’  ‘I am doing a great
work,’ said Nehemiah, Neh.
6:3.  But what was that to his?  No work more hazardous to carry in than
this.  It is sad enough to drop to
hell from under the pulpit—to hear the gospel, and yet to perish; but O how
dismal to fall out of it thither for unfaithfulness to the work!  The consideration of this made Paul so
bestir him; ‘knowing the terror of the Lord we per­suade men.’

           2.
It is a laborious work. 
'Know them which labour among you...and admonish you,’ I Thes. 5:12; those who
la­bour in the word and doctrine, @Ë 6@B4ä<J,H—which la­bour to weariness.  He that preaches as he should, shall
find it a work, and not play.  Not
a work of an hour while speaking in the pulpit, but a load that lies heavy on
his shoulders all the week long; a labour that spends the vitals, and consumes
the oil which should feed the lamp of nature; such a labour, in a word, as
makes old age and youth oft meet together.  The Jews took Christ to be about fifty years old when he was
little above thirty, John
8:57.  I find some give this reason of it,
because Christ had so macerated his body with labour in preaching, fasting, and
watching, that it aged his very countenance and made him look older than he
was.  Other callings are, many of
them,  but as exer­cise to nature;
they blow off the ashes from its coal, and help to discharge nature of those
superfluities which oppress it. 
Who eats his bread more heartily, and sleeps more sweetly, than the
ploughman?  But the minister's work
debilitates nature.  It is hard for
him to eat and work too.  Like the
candle, he wastes while he shines. 
Whatever work is thought harder than other, we have it borrowed to set
forth the min­ister’s labour.  They
are called soldiers, watchmen, husbandmen, yea, their work is set out by the
pangs of a woman in travail.  Some
of them indeed have easier labours than other—those who find more success of
their ministry than their brethren; but who can tell the throes that their
souls feel who all the time of their ministry go in travail and bring forth
dead children at last?

           3.
It is opposed work by hell and earth.

           (1.)
It is opposed by hell.  The
devil never liked temple work; he that was at Joshua’s right hand to resist him,
is at the minister’s elbow to disturb him, and that both in study and pulpit
also.  ‘I would have come,’ saith
Paul, ‘but Satan hindered.’  Who
can tell all the devices that Satan hath to take the minister off or hinder him
in his work?  One while he discourag­eth
him, that he is ready with Jonah to run away with his charge; another while he
is blowing of him up with pride. 
Even Paul himself hath a thorn given him in his flesh to keep pride out
of his heart.  Sometimes he roils
him with passion, and leavens his zeal into sourness and unmercifulness.  This the disciples were tainted with,
when they called for fire to come down from heaven upon those that stood in
their way. Sometimes he chills their zeal, and intimidates their spirits into
cowardice and self‑pity.  Thus
Peter fa­voured himself when he denied his Master; and when at another time he
dissembled with the Jews, to curry their favour.

           (2.)
It is opposed by the wicked world. 
‘To be a minister,’ said Luther, ‘is nothing else but to derive the
world’s wrath and fury upon himself.’ 
How are they loaden with reproaches!  This dirt lies so thick nowhere as on the minister’s coat.  What odious names did the best of men,
the apostles themselves, go under? 
And it were well they would only smite them with the tongue; but you
shall find in all ages persecutors have thirsted most after their blood.  The persecution in the Acts begins with
the cutting off of James’ head. 
Seven thousand could lie better his in Jezebel’s time than one
prophet.  These are the bur­densome
stones which every one is lifting at, though none can do it without bruising
his own fingers.  In every national
storm almost, they are taken up to be thrown overboard for those that raised
it.  How many are there of an
opinion that nothing keeps them from seeing happy days but the standing of them
and their office?  O miserable
happiness, which cannot be bought and purchased but with the ruin of those that
bring the tidings of peace and salvation to them all! Such a happiness this
would be as the sheep had in the fable, when persuaded to have the dogs that
kept the wolves off killed; or as the passengers at sea would have when their
pilot is thrown overboard.  In a
word, such a happiness as the Jews had when Christ was taken out of the way by
their murderous hands. They slew him to preserve themselves from the Ro­mans
destroying their city, but brought them with irreparable ruin by this very
means upon their own head.

           4.
That which adds weight to all the former is, that the men who are to bear
this heavy burden, and to conflict with all these difficulties and dangers, are
those who have no stronger shoulders than others; for they are men subject
to the like infirmities with their brethren.  Now, will not all this melt you into com­passion towards
them, and your compassion send you to prayer for them?  Shall they stand in the face of death
and danger, where Satan's bullets, and man’s also, fly so thick, and you not be
at the pains to raise a breast‑work before them for their defence by your prayers?

           Third.  In regard of yourselves.  Love to your­selves will plead to pray
for them.

           1.
Consider their ministry is an office set up on purpose for your sakes.  It was never intended for the exalting
of a few men above their brethren, but for the service of your faith.  The gifts that Christ hath given to
men, Eph.
4—that
is, their office and abilities to discharge it—are both for the edifying of the
body of Christ, and will you not pray for those that from one end of the year
to the other are at work for you? 
If you had but a child or servant sent abroad about your worldly
business, would you not send a prayer after him?  Thus did good Jacob, when his children went on his errand to
Egypt: ‘God Almighty give you mercy before this man.’  Will you not do thus much for your poor minister, and pray
God Almighty go with him, when in his study to prepare, and when in the pulpit
to deliver what he hath prepared for our souls?

           2.
The ministers’ miscarriage is dangerous to the people; therefore pray
for them, lest you be led into temptation by their falls.  The sins of teachers are the teachers
of sin.  If the nurse be sick, the
child is in danger to suck the disease from her that lies at her breast.  If the minister be tainted with an
error, it is strange if many of his people should not catch the infection;
when, if he be loose and scandalous in his life, he is like a common well or
fountain, corrupted and muddied, at which all the town draw their water. The
devil aimed at more than Peter when he desired leave to try a fall with
him.  ‘Simon, Simon, behold, Satan
hath desired to have thee, that he may sift thee as wheat,’ Luke 22:31.  He knew his fall was like to strike up
the heels of many others.  The
minister’s practice makes a greater sound than his doctrine. They who forget
his sermon, will remember his ex­ample to quote it for their apology and
defence when time serves.  Peter
withdraws, and ‘other Jews dissembled with him,’ Gal. 2:12, 13.  Truly, friends, your ministers are but
men, and of no stronger than yourselves—men subject to the like passions.  He among them that presumes he shall
not slide into an error, or fall into a sin, is bolder than any promise in the
word gives him leave.  They need
your prayers as much as any, and those most that fear their danger least.

           3.
By praying for the minister you take the most hopeful way to profit by his
ministry.  Such a soul as this
may come in expectation to have a portion laid on his trencher; his meal is
spoke for; and such guests as send to heaven before they come to an ordinance
are most likely to have the best entertainment.  He that hears a sermon, and hath not prayed for the
minister, and the success of his labours, sits down to his meat before he hath
craved a blessing; he plays the thief to his own soul, while he robs the
minister of the assistance his prayers might have brought him in from
heaven.  Pinch the nurse, and you
starve the child. The less the minister is prayed for, the less, it is to be
feared, will the people profit by him.

           4.
By praying for the minister you do not only render the word he preacheth more
effectual to your­selves, but you also interest yourselves in the good his
ministry does to others.  As
there is a way of partak­ing in others’ sins, so in others’ holy services.  He that strengthens the hands of a
sinner any way in his wicked practices, makes his sin his own, and shall
partake with him in the wages due to the work when the day of reckoning
comes.  So he that strengthens the
minister’s hand in his holy work, whether by prayer, countenance, or relief of
his necessities, becomes a partaker with him in his service, and shall not be
left out in the reward, Matt.
10:40.  We read there of ‘a prophet's reward’
given to private Chris­tians; they who communicate with the minister in his
labour, by any subserviency to it, shall share in the reward.  When God comes to reward his prophets
for their faithful service, then Obadiah that hid them from the fury of their
persecutors—then Onesiphorus that refreshed their bowels—yea, then all those
faithful ones that put up their fervent prayers for the free course of the
gospel in their ministry—shall be called in to share with them in the
reward.  He that hath but a
fifteenth part in a ship is an owner as well as he that hath more; and, when the
voyage is over, he hath his share of the return that is made proportion­able to
his part.  O what an encouragement
is this to have a stock going in this bottom!—yea, to venture than ever at the
throne of grace for the now despised ministers of Christ, seeing heaven’s
promise is our insuring office to secure all we send to sea upon this account.

 

BRANCH SECOND.

 

[The matter of Paul’s request, as a
minister

of Christ, for the
prayers of believers.]

 

           The
second branch in the general division of the words follows, and contains the matter
of the apostle’s request to the church of Ephesus, or what he desires them
to mention to God in his behalf—‘that utterance may be given unto me.’  Where observe, First. The spirituality of his desire.  He sets them not a praying for carnal
things, the world’s honour or riches; no, we hear him not so much as mention
his necessities and outward wants, which he, being now a prisoner, it is like,
was no great stranger to; but they are spiritual wants he most groans under.  He desires the charity of their prayers
more than of their purse.

Second. Observe the public concernment of that he begs
prayers for—‘that utterance may be given me.’ This is not a personal privilege,
that would redound only on his own private advantage, but which renders him
useful to others—that which may fit him for his public employment in the
church; from which we may gather this note.

 

[What the minister of
Christ chiefly

desires believers’
prayers for.]

 

           Note. A faithful minister’s heart runs more
on his work than on himself. 
That which he chiefly de­sires is how he may best discharge his
ministerial trust.  No doubt Paul
spake out of the abundance of his heart. 
That comes out first of which his heart was most full, and for which his
thoughts were most soli­citous; as if he had said, If you will take me into
your prayers, let this be your request, ‘That utterance may be given me.’  Wherever, almost, you find him begging
prayers, he forgets not this: ‘Pray for us, that the word of the Lord may have
free course,’ II
Thes. 3:1;
‘Praying also for us, that God would open unto us a door of utterance, to speak
the mystery of Christ,’ Col.
4:3.  Admirable are the expressions whereby
this holy man declares how deeply his heart was engaged in the work of the
Lord.  He tells them that his very
soul and spirit was set upon it: ‘Whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of
his Son,’ Rom.
1:9.  Never did any more long for preferment
in the church, than he to preach the gospel to the church.  ‘I long to see you, that I may impart
unto you some spiritual gift,’ ver. 11. 
He professeth himself a debtor to all sorts of men; he hath a heart and
tongue to preach to all that have an ear to hear: ‘I am debtor both to the
Greeks, and to the Barbarians; both to the wise, and to the unwise,’ ver. 14.  Yea, he was ‘ready to preach the
gospel’ ver.
15,
where he should stand in the mouth of death and danger.  This so took up his thoughts, that for
it he threw all his worldly concernments at his heels.  As for the world’s riches, he
professeth he progged[1] not for it:
‘I seek not yours, but you,’ II Cor. 12:14. He had a nobler merchandise in his
eye.  He had rather preach them
into Christ, than their money into his purse.  And for their respect and love, though it was due debt to
him, yet he lays it aside, and on he will go with his work, though they give
him no thanks for his pains: ‘I will very gladly spend and be spent for you;
though the more abundantly I love you, the less I be loved.’  His duty he will do to them, and leaves
them to look to theirs to him.  The
nurse draws forth her breast to the child, though froward, because she looks
for her reward, not from the child, but its parent.  God will reward the faithful minister, though his people
will not thank him for his labour.

           In
a word, his very life was not valued by him when it stood in competition with
his work: ‘But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto
myself, that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry, which I have
received of the Lord Jesus,’ Acts 20:24. 
And not without great reason is it that ministers should prefer their
duty above all temporal respects. 
They are servants to God; and a servant must look to his work, whatever
becomes of himself.  Abraham’s
servant would not eat till he had done his message; and when it sped, neither
would he stay then to lose time, but posts back again with all expedition to
his master, Gen.
24:33.  He said well who was employed to
relieve the city of Rome with corn, who, when the master of the ship would have
had him stay for fair weather, answered, ‘It is necessary that we sail, not
that we live.’  It is necessary the
minister should fulfil his ministry, not that he should be rich, not that he
should be in reputation.  The
incompar­able value of souls is such as should make hazard our whole temporal
stake to promote their eternal salva­tion.  He that wins souls is wise, though he lose his own life in
the work.  But we come to a more
particu­lar inquiry into these words, what the apostle means by ‘utterance,’
which he desires may be given him. 
A parallel place to this we have, Col. 4:3, 4.  Three things we may conceive the apostle drives at in this
his request.

 

[Threefold import of
Paul’s request, when he

desires that utterance be prayed for.]

 

           First.
By ‘utterance’ may be meant liberty to preach the gospel;—that his mouth
might not be stopped by the persecutor, who had him already his prisoner.  Now he desires they would pray for him,
that he might not be quite taken off his work: where,

           1.
Observe what a grievous affliction it is to a faithful minister to be denied
liberty to preach the gospel. 
So long as Paul might preach, though in a chain, he is not much
troubled; the word is free, though he be bound.  But, to have his mouth stopped, to see poor souls ready to
perish for want of that bread which he hath to give out, and yet may not be
allowed this liberty, goes to his heart. 
‘O pray,’ saith he, ‘that utterance may be given.’  If he may not preach, neither should he
live; for upon this account alone he desired life—the furtherance of their
faith, Php.
1:25.  O how far are they from Paul’s mind, to
whom it is more tedious to preach than grievous to be kept from the work!  How seldom should we see some in the
pulpit, were it not a necessary expedient to bring in their revenue at the
year's end!

           2.
The liberty of the gospel, and of the ministers to deliver it, are in an
especial manner to be prayed for.

           (1.)
Because this is strongly opposed and ma­ligned by Satan and his instruments.  Wherever God opens a door for his
gospel there Satan raiseth his batteries. 
‘For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many
adversaries,’ I
Cor. 16:9.
No sooner doth God open his shop-windows, but the devil is at work to shut them
again, or hinder the free-trade of his gospel.  Other men's servants can work peaceably in their master’s
shop, but as for God’s servants, every one hath a stone to throw in at them as
they pass by.  When Paul began to
preach at Thes­salonica, the city was presently in an uproar and cry, ‘These
that have turned the world upside down are come hither also,’ Acts 17:6.  Indeed they said true; let the gospel
have but liberty and it will ‘turn the world upside down.’  It will make a change, but a happy
one.  This the devil knows, and
therefore dreads its approach.

           (2.)
Because it is the choicest mercy that God can bless a nation with.  Happy are the people that are in such a
case.  It is the gospel of the
kingdom; it lifts a people up to heaven. We could better spare the sun out of
its orb than the preaching of the gospel out of the church.  Souls might find the way to heaven,
though the sun sis not lend them its light; nut without the light of truth they
cannot take one right step to­wards it. 
Work, saith Christ, ‘while ye have the light,’ John 12:36.  Salvation-work cannot be done by the
candle‑light of a natural understanding, but by the daylight of gospel
revelation; this sun must rise before man can go forth to this labour.

           (3.)
It is God’s power to preserve the liberty of his gospel and messengers,
in spite of the devil and his instruments.  Therefore, indeed, Paul sends them not to court to beg his
liberty, but to heaven.  God had
Nero closer prisoner than he had Paul. 
‘Behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it,’ Rev. 3:8.  At Ephesus were many adversaries we
heard, yet the door was kept open. 
Christ carries the keys of the church-door at his girdle: ‘He that hath
the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth,’ Rev. 3:7, ‘the key
of the house of David,’ so
Isa. 22:22.  The church is Christ’s house, and the
mas­ter sure will keep the key of his own door.

           (4.)
Prayer hath a mighty power with God to preserve or restore liberty to his
gospel and messen­gers.  It
hath fetched home his servants from banish­ment, it hath brought them out of
their dungeon. The prison could not hold Peter when the church was at prayer
for him.  It hath had a mighty
influence into the church’s affairs when at the lowest ebb.  It was a sad world to the church in
Nero’s time, when Paul set the saints a praying for kings and those that were
in authority; which prayers, though they were not ans­wered in Nero, yet I
doubt not but afterwards they were in Constantine and other Christian princes,
under whose royal wing the church of Christ was cherished and protected.

           (5.)
Pray for their liberty, because, when the gospel goes away, it goes not
alone, but carries away your other mercies along with it.  The hangings that are taken down when
the prince removes his court. Where the minister hath not liberty to preach the
truth, the people will not long have liberty to profess it.  When it went ill with James the
apostle, it went not well with the church at Jerusalem, Acts 12:1, 2, nor can
that place look long to enjoy its outward peace. When God removes his gospel,
it is to make way for worse company to come, even all his sore plagues and
judgements, Jer.
6:8.

           Second.  When the apostle desires ‘utterance’ to
be given him, he may mean that he may have a word given him to preach—Ë<" µ@Â *@2,\0 8`(@H, ac­cording
to that which Christ promiseth, ‘It shall be given you in that same hour what
ye shall speak,’ Matt.
10:19.  From which we may note:

           1.
That ministers have no ability of their own for their work.  O how long may they sit tumbling their
books over, and beating their brains, till God comes to their help; and then,
as Jacob’s venison, it is brought to their hand!  If God drop not down his assistance, we write with a pen
that hath no ink.  If any in the
world need walk pendantly upon God more than others, the minister is he.

           2.
Observe that those who are most eminent for gifts and grace have meanest
thoughts of themselves, and are acquainted most with their own insufficiency.
Paul himself is not ashamed to let Christians know that if God brings it not
into him he cannot deal out to them; he cannot speak a word to them till he re­ceives
it from God: ‘Not that we are suffi­cient of ourselves to think any thing as of
ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God; who also hath made us able ministers
of the New Testament,’ II
Cor. 3:5, 6.  He is the able minister whom God
enables.

           3.
Observe, the meanest Christian may, by his faithful prayers, help to make
the minister’s sermon for him. 
‘Pray,’ saith the apostle, ‘that utterance may be given unto me;’ that I
may have from God what I should deliver to others.  O what a useful instrument is a praying Christian! he may
not only help his own minister, but others even all the world over.  Paul was now at Rome, and sends for
prayers as far as to the saints at Ephesus.

           Third.  By ‘utterance’ he may mean a faculty
of speech—a readiness and facility to deliver to others what he hath been
enabled to conceive in his own mind of the will of God.  Many eminent servants of God have been
very sensible of, and much dis­couraged for, their impedite speech and hesitant
de­livery.  Now this may proceed
from a  natural cause, or
supernatural.

           1.
From a natural cause.  As,

           (1.)
From a defect in the instruments of speech; which some think was the
cause of Moses’ complaint, ‘I am not eloquent,...but I am slow of speech,’ Ex. 4:10.  And this discouraged him from being
sent on God’s errand.  But God can
compensate the hesitancy of the tongue with the divine power of the matter
delivered.  This Moses, who was so
‘slow of speech,’ yet was ‘mighty in words,’ Acts 7:22, able to make Pharaoh’s stout heart
to tremble, though he might stammer in the delivery of it.  God promised indeed to be ‘with his
mouth;’ yet, it is probable, he did not cure his natural infirmity, for we find
him complaining after­wards of it. 
Such natural imperfections, therefore, should neither discourage the
minister nor prejudice the people; but rather make him more careful that the
matter be weighty he delivers, and them that their attention be more close and
united.

           (2.)
From a weak memory.  He that
reads in a bad print, where many letters are defaced, cannot read fast and
smooth, but will oft be stopped to study what is next.  Memory is an inward table or book, out
of which the minister reads his sermon unseen.  If the notions or meditations we have to deliver be not
fairly imprinted on our memory, no wonder that the tongue is oft at a stand,
except we should speak to no purpose. 
If the hopper be stopped, the mill cannot grind; or if the pipe that
feeds the cistern be obstruc­ted, it will be seen at the cock.  When God hath assis­ted in the study,
we need him to strengthen our memory in the pulpit.

           (3.)
From fear.  If the heart
faint, it is no wonder the tongue falters.  This, it is like, was at the bottom of Jeremiah's excuse:
‘Ah, Lord God! behold, I cannot speak: for I am a child,’ Jer. 1:6.  That is, I want the courage and spirit
of a man to wrestle with these oppositions that will certainly meet me in the
work. That this was his infirmity appears by the method God takes for the cure:
‘Say not, I am a child: for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee,...be
not afraid of their faces: for I am with thee to deliver thee,’ ver. 7, 8.

           2.
From a supernatural cause; where none of these defects are, but the
minister stands best fur­nished and in greatest readiness for his work.  Yet, let but God turn the cock, and
there is a stop put to the whole work. 
Not only ‘the preparations of the heart,’ but ‘the answer of the
tongue,’ both are ‘of the Lord,’ Prov. 16:1.  God keeps the key of the mouth as well as of the heart; not
a word can get out, but sticks in the teeth while [i.e. until] God opens
the doors of the lips to give it a free egress.  He opened the mouth of the ass, and stopped the mouth of
that wicked prophet its master. 
Hear him confessing as much to Balak: ‘Lo, I am come unto thee: have I
now any power at all to say anything? the word that God putteth in my mouth,
that shall I speak,’ Num.
22:38.  Never man de­sired more to be speaking
than he; that which should have got him his hire, the wages of unrighteousness,
for he loved it dearly.  But God
had tongue-tied him. Nay, even holy men, when they would speak the truth, and
that for God, cannot deliver themselves of what they have conceived in their
inward meditations. Hence David’s prayer: ‘Open thou my lips, and my mouth
shall show forth thy praise.’ 
Ezekiel he would ‘make his tongue cleave to the roof of his mouth;’ he
should not reprove them though he would, Eze. 3:26.

 

[Use or Application.]

 

           Use
First.  To ministers.  Do ministers depend thus on God for
utterance?  This speaks to you
, my brethren in the Lord’s work. 
Do nothing for which God may stop your mouths when you come into the
pulpit.

           1.
Take heed of any sin smothering in your bosoms.  Canst thou believe God will assist thee
in his work who canst lend thy hand to the devil’s? Mayest thou not rather fear
he should hang a padlock on thy lips, and strike thee dumb, when thou goest
about thy work?  You remember the
story of Origen, how after his great fall he was silenced in the very pul­pit;
for, at the reading of that, ‘What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or
that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth?’ Ps. 50:16, the
conscience of his sin would not suffer him to speak.  O it is sad when the preacher meets his own sin in his
subject, and pronounceth sentence against himself while he reads his text!  If thou wouldst have God assist thee,
be zealous and repent.  When the
trumpet is washed, then the Holy Spirit, thou mayest hope, will again breathe
through it.

           2.
Beware thou comest not in the confidence of thy own preparation.  God hath declared himself against this
kind of pride: ‘By strength shall no man prevail,’ I Sam. 2:9.  A little bread with God’s blessing may
make a meal for multitude, and great provision may soon shrink to nothing if
God help not in the breaking of it. 
It is not thy sermon in thy head, or notes in thy book, will enable thee
to preach except God open thy mouth. 
Acknowledge therefore God in all thy ways, and ‘lean not to thy own
understanding.’  The swelling of
the heart as well as of the wall goes before a fall.  Did the Ephraimites take it so ill that Gideon would steal a
victory without calling them to his help? 
How much more may it provoke God, when thou goest to the pulpit, and
passest by his door in the way without calling for his assistance?

           Use
Second. To the people. 
Take heed you do not stop your ministers’ mouths.  This you may do,

           1.
By admiring their gifts and applauding their persons; especially when
this is accompanied with un­thankfulness to God that gives them; when you ap­plaud
the man, but do not bless God for him. 
Princes have an evil eye upon those subjects that are over-popular.  God will not let his creatures stand in
his light, nor have his honour suffer by the reputation of his instrument.  The mother likes not to see the child
taken with the nurse more than with herself.  O how foolish are we, who cannot love, but we must dote; not
honour, what we adore also!  He
that would keep his posey fresh and sweet, must smell and lay it down again—not
hold it too long in his hand, or breathe too much upon it; this is the way soon
to welter it. To overdo is the ready way to undo.  Many fair mercies are thus overlaid and pressed to death by
the excess of a fond affection; or when it is accompanied with detracting of
others—the abilities of one are cried up to cry down the another.  ‘I am of Paul, and I am of
Apollos.’  Thus the disciples of
either advanced their preacher to hold up a faction.

           2.
You may provoke God to withdraw his assis­tance by expecting the benefit
from man and not from God; as if it were nothing but to take up your cloak
and Bible, and you are sure to get good by such a one’s ministry.  This is like them in James, that say,
‘We will go into such a city, and get gain;’ as if it were no more to hear with
profit than to go to the tap and draw wine or beer in your own cellar!  It is just thou shouldst find the
vessel frozen—the minister, I mean, straitened, and his abilities bound
up—because thou comest to him as unto a God who is but a poor instrument.  O say not to him, Give me grace, give
me comfort, as Rachel asked children of her husband; but go to thy God for
these in thy attendance on man.

           3.
You may provoke God to withdraw his assis­tance by rebelling against the
light of truth that shines forth upon you in his ministry.  God sometimes stops the minister’s
mouth because the people shut their hearts.  Why should the cock run to have the water spilt upon the
ground?  Christ himself did ‘not
many mighty works’—‘he could not,’ saith Mark—in his own country, ‘because of
their unbelief.’  Dei justitia
non permittebat, ut sanctum canibus daretur, saith Brugensis upon the
place—it is just God should take away the ministry, or stop the minister’s
mouth, when they despise his counsel, and the word becomes a reproach to
them.  I am sure it is a sad dump
to the minister's spirit, that preacheth long to a gainsaying people, and no
good omen to them.  The mother’s
milk goes away sometimes before the child's death. God binds up the spirit of
his messengers in judg­ment: ‘I will make thy tongue cleave to the roof of thy
mouth, that thou shalt be dumb, and shalt not be to them a reprover: for they
are a rebellious house,’ Eze.
3:26.

 

 

 

BRANCH THIRD.

 

[The end in Paul’s request as a
minister

of Christ for the
prayers of believers.]

 

‘That I may
open my mouth boldly, to make

known the
mystery of the gospel.’

 

           The
third branch in the division of the words presents us with the end why he
desires their prayers for utterance to be granted him, expressed in these
words—‘that I may open my mouth boldly, to make known the mystery of the
gospel;’ where there are these three observables.  First. The
sublime nature of the gospel—it is ‘a mystery.’  Second.
Wherein lies the work of a gospel minister—‘to make known the mystery
of the gospel.’  Third. The manner how he is to
perform this work —‘that I may open my mouth boldly.’

 

[What is meant by a
‘mystery,’ and in

what respects the
gospel is one.]

 

           First Observable.  The sublime nature of the gospel—it
is ‘a mystery.’  The Greek
word µLFJZD­4T< some derive
from µLXT, to teach
any secret be­longing to religion; others of µbT or µb.T, to shut the mouth, because those
that were initiated or admitted to be present at the religious rites and
mysteries of the heathens—who were called µbFJ"4 —might not reveal them to those that
were •µb<J@4, or not
initiated.  Therefore they had an
image before the temple, holding his finger upon his mouth, to put them in mind
as they went in and out of keeping secret what was done within.  Indeed the mysteries in their
idolatrous worship were so impure and filthy that nothing but secrecy could
keep them from being abhorred and detested by the more sober part of mankind;
and it is not unworthy of our noting what I find observed to my hand by a
learned pen—that the Spirit of God should make choice of that word in the New
Testament so often to express the holy doctrine of truth and salvation
contained in it, which was so vilely abused by those heathenish idolaters;
surely it shows them to be over‑scrupulous that judge it unlawful any way to
make use of those names or things which have been abused by heathens or
idolaters.  (R. Sanderson on I Tim. 3:16.)  But, to return to the word ‘mystery;’
it hath obtained in our usual speech to be applied to any secret, natural,
civil, or religious, which lies out of the road of vulgar under­standings.  In Scripture it is generally used for
reli­gious secrets; and it is taken both in an evil sense and in a good.

 

[What is meant by a ‘mystery.’]

 

           First.
The word mystery is used in an evil sense. ‘The mystery of iniquity doth
already work,’ II
Thes. 2:7;
whereby is meant the secret rising antichristian dominion, whereof some
foundations were laid even in the apostle’s days.  Error is but a day younger than truth.  When the gospel began first to be
preached by Christ and his apostles, error presently put forth her hand to take
it by the heel and supplant it. 
The whole system of antichristianism is a mystery of pol­icy and
impiety.  Mystery is written upon
the whore of Babylon’s forehead, Rev. 17:2.  And Causabon tells us the same word was written up­on the
pope’s mitre; if so, it is well he would own his name. ‘My soul, en­ter not
thou into their secrets.’

           Second.  In a good sense.  Sometimes for some particular branch of
evangelical truth.  Thus the rejec­tion
of the Jews and calling of the Gentiles is called a ‘mystery,’ Rom. 11:25; the
wonderful change of those that shall be upon the earth at the end of the world,
I Cor.
15:51;
the incarnation, resurrection, and ascen­sion of Christ, I Tim. 3:16; with
others.  Sometimes it is used for
the whole body of the gospel; as to the doctrine of it, called a ‘mystery of
faith,’ I
Tim. 3:9;
as to the purity of its precepts and rules for a holy life, a ‘mystery of
godliness;’ as to the author, subject, and end of it, called ‘the mystery of
Christ,’ Eph.
3:4—it
was revealed by him, treats of him, and leads souls to him; and lastly, in
regard of the blessed reward it promiseth to all that sincerely embrace it,
called ‘the mystery of the kingdom of God,’ Mark 4:11.  This gospel is the glorious mystery we are now to speak of;
and we will show in what respect it is a mystery, or why so called by the
Spirit of God.

 

[Why or in what respects

the gospel is a
mystery.]

 

           First.  Because it is known only by divine
revela­tion.  Such a secret it
is that the wit of man could never have found out.  There are many secrets in na­ture, which, with much plodding
and study, have at last been discovered, as the medicinal virtue of plants and
the like; but the gospel is a secret, and contains in it such mysteries as were
omni ingenio altiora—be­yond the reach of all genius, as Calvin
saith.  What man or angel could
have thought of such a way for reconciling God and man as in the gospel is laid
out? How impossible was it for them to have conjectured what purposes of love
were locked up in the heart of God towards fallen man, till himself did open
the cabinet of his own counsel?  Or
had God given them some hint of a purpose he had for man’s recovery, could they
ever have so much as thought of such a way as the gospel brings to light?  Surely as none but God could lay the
plot, so none but himself could make it known.  The gospel therefore is called ‘a revelation of the mystery,
which was kept secret since the world began,’ Rom. 16:25.

           Second.
Because the gospel when revealed, its truths exceed the grasp of human
understanding. They are the eye of our reason as the sun is to the eye of
our body, such a nimium excellens—exceeding excellency, as dazzles and
overpowers the most pier­cing apprehension.  They disdain to be discussed and tried by human reason.  That there are three subsis­tences in
the Godhead, and but one divine essence, we believe, because there
revealed.  But he that shall fly
too near this light, as thinking to comprehend this mysterious truth in his
narrow reason, will soon find himself lost in his bold enterprise.  God and man, united in Christ’s person,
is undeniably demonstrable from the gospel.  But, alas! the cordage of our under­standing is too short to
fathom this great deep. ‘With­out controversy,’ saith the apostle, ‘great is
the mys­tery of godliness: God was manifest in the flesh,’ I Tim. 3:16.  It is a truth without controversy, Òµ@8@(@LµX<TH—it is
confessed of all, yet such a mystery as is not fordable by our short-legged
under­standing.  That there is no
name but the name of Jesus by which we can be saved is the grand notion of the
gospel; but how many mysteries are wrapped up in this one truth?  Who that should have seen the babe
Jesus when he lay in the manger, and afterward meanly bred under a carpenter,
and at last executed for a malefactor, could have imagined, as one saith, that
upon such weak hinges should move such a glor­ious design for man’s
salvation?  But who dares think it
unreasonable to believe that upon God’s report to be true, which we cannot make
out by our own under­standing? 
Some things we apprehend by reason that cannot be known by sense—as that
the sun is bigger than the earth; some things by sense, which cannot be found
out by reason.  That the lodestone
attracts iron, and not gold, our eye beholds; but why it should, there our
reason is dunced and posed.  Now if
in nature we question not the truth of these, though sense be at a loss in one
and reason in the other, shall we in religion doubt of that to be true which
drops from God’s own mouth and pen, because it exceeds our weak
understanding?  Wouldst thou see a
reason, saith Augustine, for all that God saith? look into thy own
understanding, and thou wilt find a reason why thou seest not a reason.

           Third.  It is a mystery in regard of the
paucity of those to whom it is revealed.  Secrets are whispered into the ears of a few, and not
exposed to all.  ‘Unto you it is
given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God,’ Mark 4:11.  Who were those ‘you,’ but a few
dis­ciples who believed on his name? 
The greater part of the world were ever strangers to this mystery.  Before Christ’s time it was impaled
within a little spot of ground of the Jewish nation.  Since it came abroad into the Gentile world, and hath been
travelling above these sixteen hundred years hither and thither, how few at
this day are acquainted with it! 
Indeed, where its glorious light shines long, many get a literal no­tional
knowledge of it—it were strange that men should walk long in the sun and not
have their faces a little tanned with it; but the spiritual and saving
knowledge of this mystery is revealed but to few, for the number of saints is
not great compared with the reprobate world.

           Fourth.
It is a mystery in regard of the sort of men to whom it is chiefly imparted—such
as are, in reason, most unlikely to dive into any great mysteries; those who
are despised by the wise world, and the great states of it, as poor and
base.  ‘Not many wise men after the
flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called: but God hath chosen the
foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak
things of the world to confound the things which are mighty,’ I Cor. 1:26, 27.  If we have a secret to reveal, we do
not choose weak and shallow heads to impart it unto; but here is a mystery
which babes understand and wise men are ignorant of: ‘I thank thee, O
Father,...because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and
hast revealed them unto babes.’ 
The people who were so scorned by the proud Pharisees, as those who knew
not the law, John
7:49,
to them was the gospel revealed, while these doctors of the chair were left in
ignorance.  It is revealed to the
poor many times, and hid from kings and princes.  Christ passeth often by palaces to visit the poor cottage.  Herod could get nothing from Christ—who
out of curiosity so long desired to see him, Luke 23:8; whereas the poor woman of Samaria
with a pitcher in her hand, Christ vouchsafeth her a sermon, and opens to her
the saving truths of the gospel. 
Pilate missed of Christ on the bench, while the poor thief finds him,
and heaven with him, on the cross. 
Devout women are passed by and left to perish with their blind zeal,
while harlots and publicans are converted by him.

           Fifth.
It is a mystery in regard of the kind of knowledge the saints themselves
have of it.

           1.
Their knowledge is but in part and imperfect. The most of what they know
is the least of what they do not know. 
The gospel is as a rich piece of arras rolled up; this God hath been
unfolding ever since the first promise was made to Adam, opening it still every
age wider than other; but the world shall sooner be at an end than this mystery
will be fully known. Indeed, as a river—which may be breaks forth at first from
the small orifice of a little spring—does widens its channel and grows broader
as it approacheth nearer the sea; so the knowledge of this mystery doth spread
every age more than other, and still will, as the world draws nearer and nearer
to the sea of eternity, into which it must at last fall.  The gospel appeared but a little spring
in Adam’s time, whose whole Bible was bound up in a single promise; this
increased to a rivulet enlarged itself into a river in the days of the
prophets; but when Christ came in the flesh then knowledge flowed in
amain.  The least in the gospel
state is said to be greater than the greatest before Christ.  So that, in comparison of the darker
times of the law, the knowledge Christians now have is great, but compared with
the knowledge they shall have in heaven, it is little, and but peep of day.

           2.
It is mysterious and dark. 
Gospel truths are not known in their native glory and beauty, but in
shadows.  We are said indeed ‘with
open face’ to ‘be­hold the glory of God,’ but still it is ‘as in a glass.’ Now,
you know the glass presents us with the image, not with the face itself.  We do not see them as in­deed they are,
but as our weak eyes can bear the knowledge of them.  Indeed this glass of the gospel is clearer than that of the
law was; we see truths through a thinner veil; baptism is clearer than
circumcision, the Lord's supper than the passover; in a word, the New Testament
than the Old; yet there is nothing of heaven revealed in the gospel but it is
translated into our earthly language, because we are unable while here below to
understand its original.  Who
knows, or can conceive, what the joys of heaven are, so as to speak of them in
their own idiom and propriety? 
But, a feast we know, what a kingdom is we under­stand; with riches and
treasures we are well acquain­ted. 
Now, heaven is set out by these things, which in this world bear the
greatest price in men’s thoughts. In heaven is a feast, yet without meat;
riches, without money; a kingdom, without robes, sceptre, and crown, because
infinitely above these.  Hence it
is said, ‘It doth not yet appear what we shall be,’ I John 3:2.  Our apprehensions of these things are
manly compared with those under the law, but childish compared with the
knowledge which glorified saints have. 
Therefore, as Paul saith ‘he putteth childish things away,’ when he grew
up into further knowledge of the gospel; so he tells us of an imperfect knowl­edge,
which yet he had, ‘that must be done away, when that which is perfect is come,’
I Cor.
13:10, 11.

           Sixth.
The gospel is a mystery in regard of the contrary operation it hath upon the
hearts of men. The eyes of some it opens, others it blinds; and who so
blind as those whose eyes are put out with light? Some when they hear the
gospel are ‘pricked in their hearts;’ they can hardly stay till the preacher
hath done his sermon, but cry out, ‘What shall I do to be saved?’  Others are hardened by it, and their
con­sciences seared into a greater stupidity.  At Paul’s sermon, Acts 17:32, ‘some mocked;’ others were af­fected
so with his discourse that they desired to ‘hear it again.’  What a mysterious doctrine is this,
that sets one a laughing, another a weeping!—that is the savour of life to
some, and of death to others!

           Seventh.
The gospel is a mystery in regard of those rare and strange effects it hath
upon the godly; and that both in respect of their judgments and prac­tice.  As the gospel is ‘a mystery of
faith,’ so it enables them to believe strange mysteries—to believe
that which they understand not, and hope for that which they do not see.  It enables them to believe three to be
one, and one to be three; a trinity of Persons in the Deity, and a unity of
essence; a Father not older than his Son, a Son not inferior to his Father; a
Holy Spirit proceeding from both, yet equal to both.  It teaches them to believe that Christ was born in time, and
that he was from everlasting; that he was com­prehended within the virgin’s
womb, and yet the heaven of heavens not able to contain him; to be the son of
Mary, and yet her maker that was his mother; to be born without sin, and
yet justly to have died for sin. 
They believe that God was just in punishing Christ though innocent, and
in justifying penitent believers who are sinners; they believe themselves to be
great sinners, and yet that God sees them in Christ ‘without spot or wrinkle.’

           Again,
as the gospel is a ‘mystery of godliness,’ it enables Christians to do
as strange things as they be­lieve—to live by another’s Spirit, to act from
another’s strength, to live to another’s will, and aim at another’s glory.  They live by the Spirit of Christ, act
with his strength, are determined by his will, and aim at his glory.  It makes them so meek and gentle that a
child may lead them to anything that is good, yet so stout that fire and faggot
shall not fright them into a sin. 
They can love their enemies, and yet, for Christ’s sake, can hate father
and mother.  It makes them diligent
in their worldly calling, yet enables them to contemn the riches they have got
by God’s blessing on their labour; they are taught by it that all things are
theirs, yet they dare not take a penny, a pin, from the wicked of the world by
force and rapine. It makes them so humble as to ‘prefer every one in honour’
above themselves, yet so to value their own condition that the poorest among
them would not change his estate with the greatest monarch of the world.  It makes them thank God for health, and
for sickness also; to rejoice when exalted, and as much when made low; they can
pray for life, and at the same time desire to die.  Is not that doctrine a mys­tery which fills the Christian’s
life with so many riddles!

 

 

 

USE OR
APPLICATION.

 

[Why the gospel and
its professors are so

slighted,
misunderstood, and persecuted.]

 

           Use
First. This gives us a reason why the gospel, with the great offers it
makes, is so slighted and re­jected by the wicked world.  The cause is, the bles­sings of the gospel
are a mystery, and offered in such a way that carnal hearts skill[2] not of
them, and there­fore care not for them. 
The things it propounds are such as they like well enough, might they
have them in a way suited to their carnal apprehensions.  The gospel offers riches and honours;
who are not taken with these?  The
gospel opens a mine of unsearchable riches, but in a mystery; it shows them a
way how to be ‘rich in faith,’ ‘rich to God,’ rich for another world, while
poor in this.  Our Saviour went about
to learn the young man in the gospel the way to be rich—not by purchasing more
land, but by selling what he had; but he would not follow his counsel.  The gospel offers pleasures and
delights—and these the sensual world like well enough—but, alas! they please
not their carnal coarse palate, because they are pleasures in a mystery,
pleasures in mourning for sin, and mortifying of sin, not pleasures in
satisfying them; pleasures in communion with Christ at an ordinance, not with a
knot of good fellows over a pot at an ale-house; pleasures to the eye and
palate of faith, not of sense; to feed their souls, not pamper and fat their
bellies.  In a word, the gospel
makes discovery of high and choice notions.  Surely now those who are the more sober part of the world,
bookish men, and in love with good literature, whose souls crave intel­lectual
food, and prize a lecture more than a feast, these will be highly pleased with
the truths the gospel brings to light, being such rare mysteries that they can
find in no other book.  Yet, alas!
we see that the gos­pel doth as little please this sort and rank of men as any
other.  Had it been filled with
flowers of rhetoric, chemical experiments, philosophical notions, or max­ims of
policy, O how greedily would they have em­braced it!  But it is wisdom in a mystery.  ‘We speak wisdom among them that are perfect: yet not the
wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world, that come to nought,’ I Cor. 2:6.  Bradwardine, a great scholar, before he
was meekened by the grace of the gospel, slighted Paul’s epistles, as afterward
he con­fessed, because he did not express ingenium meta­physicum—a
metaphysical head in his discourses.

           Again,
we here have the reason why the gospel and its professors are not only
slighted, but hated and persecuted. 
For the gospel, it is a mystery, which the world knows not; and
therefore opposed by it.  Ignorance
is the mother of persecu­tion: ‘Father, for­give them, they know not what they
do!’  The greatest enemies the
gospel ever had were not the sensual and open profane—though these bad
enough—but the superstitious and ignorantly devout, these have been they who
have shown most fierceness and fury against the gospel.  Paul tells of the ‘devout’ persons that
cruelly persecuted him, Acts
13:50.  None more hot against the truth than
Paul himself, who was a strict Pharisee, but bloody enemy against the
truth.  What reason then have we to
pray for the increase of gospel light! 
The more the gospel is known, the more kindly will it be entertained.

           Again,
the professors of the gospel, why are they so hated and maligned, but because
they partake of the mysterious nature of the gospel, and therefore their worth
is not known?  They are high-born,
but in a mystery; you cannot see their birth by their outward breeding—the arms
they bear, revenues they have to live on, by which the world judges the
greatness of persons and families. 
No, their outside is mean, while their inside is glorious; and the world
values them by what they know and see of their external port, and not by their
inward graces.  They pass, as a
prince in disguise of some poor man’s clothes, through the world, and their
entertainment is accord­ingly.  Had
Christ put on his robes of glory and ma­jesty when he came into the world,
surely he had not gone out of it with so shameful and cruel a death; the world
would have trembled at his footstool, which we see some of them did when but a
beam of his deity looked forth upon them. 
Did saints walk on earth in those robes which they shall wear in heaven,
then they would be feared and admired by those who now scorn and despise
them.  But, as God should not have
had his design in Christ’s first coming had he so ap­peared, so neither would
he in his saints, did the world know them, as one day they shall; therefore he
is pleased to let them lie hid under the mean cover­ings of poverty and other
infirmities, that so he may exercise their suffering graces, and also
accomplish his wrath upon the wicked for theirs against them.

           The
gospel as a mystery shows us the reason why carnal men do so bungle when they
meddle with matters of religion. 
Let them speak of gospel truths —what ignorance do they show!  Even as a countryman chops logic, and
speaks of the liberal arts, so they of heavenly matters.  Do we not see that those who in worldly
affairs will give you a wise and solid answer, in the truths of the gospel they
speak like children and babes? 
Yea, even those that have some brain-knowledge of the Scriptures, how
dry and unsavoury is their discourse of spiritual things!  They are like a parable in a fool’s
mouth.  So, when they engage in any
duty of religion.  Put them to
pray, hear the word, or meditate upon what they have heard; you had as good
give a workman’s tools to him that was never of the trade.  They know not how to handle them; they
go ungainsomely about the work, and cut all into chips.  Every trade hath its mystery, and
religion above all callings, when none but those that are instructed in know
how to manage.

 

[Several duties which
the mysterious nature

of the gospel imposes
on believers.]

 

           Use
Second. Several duties pressed upon the saints, who are instructed
in the mystery of the gos­pel, by way of exhortation.

           1.
Duty.  Be thankful that
ever God revealed it to thee. 
O what a mercy this is, that thou hast ‘life and immortality brought to
light,’ that thy ears hear this joyful sound!  Never came such joyful news to town as the gospel
brings.  What a poor nation was
this of ours before the gospel day broke among us! Bless God thy lot is cast
where this sun is up.  The gospel
indeed was early preached in the world. 
Adam had it soon after his fall; but a short gospel, a mystery, indeed,
to him, wrapped all up in one promise, and that a dark one.  But now that one wedge of gold is
beaten out into the whole Bible—a gospel written at length, and not in
figures.  You hear the gospel not
preached in law terms, as the Jews did under Moses’ pedagogy; but gospel in
gospel language.  The veil is taken
off which hid the beauty of gospel truths from their face.  You hear it after it hath been rescued
out of Antichrist’s hands, by whom for many ages it was kept prisoner.  You live not in those dark times when
gospel truths were embased with the mean alloy of schoolmen’s subtleties and
superstitious vanities —when more stones were given to break the teeth, than
bread to feed the souls, of people. 
The conduit of the gospel now runs with wine, not twice or thrice a
year, on some gaudy festival day, but constantly. Every Sabbath‑day you have
your fill of its sweetest truths. 
Were it not sad, if they should be found to have been more thankful for
the little drawing of gos­pel light which then but peeped forth, than you for
its meridian light, who live to see the Sun of righteous­ness with his healing
wings spread forth upon you? But especially bless God for any inward light and
life thou hast received from this gospel. 
God hath done more for thee in this, than for thousands thou livest
among, and those no means ones either. 
To this day God hath not given thy carnal neighbours eyes to see, nor
hearts to perceive, that mystery which is unfolded unto thee.  Are you thankful to him that hath
taught your worldly trade, by which you pick a small liveli­hood for your
body?  O what praise then dost thou
owe to thy God, who, by instructing thee in this mys­tery, hath learned thee as
art for saving thy soul! Trumpeters delight to sound where they have the best
echo; God delights to give his mercy to those that will most resound his
praise.

           2.
Duty.  The gospel is a
mystery, therefore rest not in thy present attainments; either in thy
knowl­edge, as it is a mystery of faith, or thy practice, as it is a mystery of
godliness.

           (1.)
Rest not in thy present knowledge. 
It is like thou knowest much to what once thou didst; but thou knowest
little to what thou mayest.  Some
books are learned at once reading, but the gospel is a mystery that will take
up more than thy lifetime to understand it.  Mysteries are here sown thick; thou diggest where the
springs rise faster upon thee the further thou goest.  God tells not all his secrets at once—‘here a little, and
there a little;’ ‘many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased,’
Dan. 12:4.  The merchant’s ship takes not all in her
lading at one port, but sails from one to another for it; neither doth the
Christian enrich himself with this heavenly trea­sure all at one time or in one
ordinance.  The true lover of
learning gives not over his chase and pursuit for a little smattering knowledge
he gets, but rather, having got the scent how sweet learning is, puts on with
fuller cry for what he wants. The true doctor studies harder than the freshman,
because, as he knows more of learning, so by that knowledge he un­derstands his
own deficiency better; for the higher he ascends the hill of learning, the more
his prospect en­largeth, while the other, standing at the bottom, thinks he
knows all in his little.

           (2.)
Rest not in thy present practice, as it is a mystery of godliness.  Let not a little grace serve thy turn,
when thou mayest have more; which that you may do,

           (a)
Compare not thyself with those that have less than thyself, but look on those
that have far exceeded thee.  To
look on our inferiors occasions pride, ‘I am not this publican,’ saith the
Pharisee; but look on other more eminent than ourselves will both preserve
humility, and be a spur to diligence. 
Miltiades’ vic­tories would not suffer Themistocles, then a young man,
to sleep.  The progress that some
have made in grace—didst thou but keep them in thine eye—would not suffer thee
to be quiet, who art now lagging so far behind, till thou hast overtaken
them.  May be thou hast got some
victory over thy passion, and art not such a bedlam in thy fury as others; but
didst thou never hear how meek a man Moses was, that could bear the murmurings
of the multitude, yea envy of his brother and sister, and yet his heart not
take fire? Thou hast some good affections towards God, but how far short of
holy David’s zeal, whose heart did run out to God as soon as his eyes were open
in the morning?  ‘When I awake I am
still with thee.’ Thrice a day, yea seven times a day, he would praise his God.
Thou hast some patience, but hast thou learned to write after Job’s copy?  Thou art not without faith, but art
thou like Abraham—strong in faith to follow God when thou knowest not whither
he will lead thee?

           (b)
The grace thou hast will soon be less, if thou addest not more to it.  Thou art upon a swift stream; let thy
oar miss its stroke, and thou fallest backward. There is not such a thing in
religion as a saving trade of godliness. 
Some men in their worldly trade can say at the year’s end they have
neither got nor lost; but thou canst not say thus at the day’s end.  Thou art at night better or worse than
thou wert in the morning.

           (c)
It is the design of the gospel to give grace in great measures.  Christ gives life, ‘and that more
abundantly,’ John
10:10.  Now shall the fountain be so large, and
the pitcher we carry to it so little? 
Where­fore doth God open his hand to such a breadth in the promise, but
to widen our desires and encourage our endeavours?

           (d)
The more grace thou hast got, the easier it will be to add to it.  A little learning with more dif­ficulty
by a young scholar, than a great deal more afterwards.

           3.
Duty.  Bear with one another’s
imperfections. You see the gospel is a mystery, do not wonder there­fore
that any are not presently masters of their art. Christ bears with the saints’
imperfections; well may the saints one with another.  How raw were the dis­ciples in their knowledge—how long did
they stand at one lesson before they could learn it!  ‘Do you now believe?’ says Christ, John 16:31.  He had borne with them long, and
inculcated the same thing often, before it entered their minds; yet, alas! we
can hardly have a good opinion of, or hold communion with, those that are not
every way of our judgment, and cannot see things so clear as ourselves.  Surely we mistake the nature of the gospel,
as if there were none but plain points in it.  Blessed be God, as to the prin­ciples necessary to
salvation, though their nature be high and mysterious, yet they are clearly and
plainly asserted in the word. 
‘Without controversy great is the mystery of godliness,’ I Tim. 3:16.  Godliness is a mystery, but it is
‘without controversy.’ As to the main fundamental points and practices of it
there is no dispute among the faithful; but there are some points more remote
from the vital parts of religion that have knots not easily untied, which makes
some difference of judgment.  But
it is not every excess or defect makes a monster—as six or four fingers on the
hand—but an excess or defect in some principal part; neither doth every mistake
make a monster in re­ligion. 
Remember that the gospel is a mystery, and you will bear with one  another’s ignorance the better.  And, when love hath once laid the dust
which passion and prejudice hath blown into our eyes, we shall then stand at
greater advantage for finding out truth.

           Again,
bear with weaknesses in the practical part of religion.  Godliness, as well as the doctrine of
our faith, is a mystery.  All the
servants in a shop cannot work alike. 
Some bungle at more than other—as their parts and experience are
less.  All saints are not of a
height.  Christ hath some children
in his family that are led with strings, as well as others that go strongly
without such help.  Some act more
upon pure gospel principle—love, and a spirit of adoption; others have not yet
worn off their legal fears and terrors. 
Some are got higher up the hill of faith, and have clearer apprehensions
of their spiritual state; others are nearer the bottom, who, as the sun newly
risen above the horizon, are wrapped up with many clouds of perplexing fears
and doubts.  In a word, some are
got further out of their passions, have greater mastery over their corruptions,
than other of their brethren.  Pity
thy weak brother, and take him by the hand for his help; but despise him not,
God can make even him stand, and suffer thee to fall. Christ doth not quench
the smoking flax, why should we? 
The weak Christian is welcome to his heavenly Father, as well as the
strong; why should he not be so to his brethren?  But, alas! the proverb here is too true, ‘Better speak to
the master than the man; the father, than the child.’  Those that can be so bold with God, dare not be free with
their fellow-servants and brethren.

           4.
Duty.  Is the gospel a
mystery?  Then Chris­tian, long
for heaven; there, and only there, shall this mystery be fully known.  The great things which were spoken
concerning the gospel church made many saints and prophets before Christ’s time
desire to see those happy times wherein such revelations should be made; how
much more should we long for heaven, where this great mystery shall be fully
opened, and every box of this cabinet unlocked, in which lie so many precious
jewels to this day unseen by any saint on earth!  Then it will be said, ‘The mystery of God is finished,’ Rev. 10:7.  Here we learn our knowledge of it by
little and little, like one that reads a book as it comes from the press, sheet
by sheet; there we shall see it altogether.  Here we get a little light from this sermon, a little more
from the next, and thus our stock increases by the addition of a few pence
thrown in, some to‑day, and more to-morrow; but there we shall have all at
once.  Here we learn with much pain
and difficulty; there without travail and trouble. Glorified saints, though
they cease not from work, yet rest from labour.  Here passion blinds our minds, that we mistake error for
truth and truth for error; but then these clouds shall be scattered and
gone.  Here the weakness of natural
parts keeps many in the dark, and renders them incapable of apprehending some
truths, which other of their brethren are led into; but there the strong shall
not prevent the weak, the scholar shall know as much as his master, the people
as their minister.  Here the
squabbles and conten­tions among the godly do leave the weaker sort at great
uncertainty what to think concerning many truths; but there they shall all
agree—which comforted that holy man on his death-bed, that he was going thither
where Luther and Calvin were reconciled. 
Here we are disturbed in our inquiries after truth—one while the necessary
occasions of this world divert us, another while the weakness and infirmities
of our bodies hinder us; but in heaven our bodies will call for none of this
tending, we shall need provide neither raiment for the back nor food for the
belly.

           O
happy death, that will ease us of all the aches of our bodies and conflicts in
our souls!  Thou art the only
physician to cure all the saints’ distempers in both.  When that blessed hour comes, then lift up your heads with
joy, for it will lead you into that blissful place where you shall see Christ,
not a great way off, with the eye of faith in the optic glass of an ordinance
or promise, but, with a glorified eye, be­hold his very person, never more to
lose the sight of him.  Thou shalt
not taste his love in a little morsel of sacramental bread and sip of wine, but
lay thy mouth to the fountain, and from his bosom drink thy full draught.  Thou shalt no more hear what a glorious
place heaven is, as thou wert wont to have it set forth by the sorry rhetoric
of a mortal man preaching to thee of that with which himself was but little ac­quainted;
but shalt walk thyself in the streets of that glorious city, and bless thyself
when thou art there, to think what poor low thoughts thou and thy minister also
had thereof, when on earth thou didst meditate, and he did preach, on this
subject.  One moment’s sight of
that glory will inform thee more than all the comments and books written of it
were ever able to do.  And dost
thou not yet cry out, How long will it be, O Lord, most holy and true, before
thou bringest me thither?  Is not
every hour a day, day a month, month a year, yea age, till that time
comes?  As Bernard, upon those
words, ‘A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and
ye shall see me,’ John
16:16,
passionately breaks forth—pie Domine, modicum illud vocas, in quo te non
videam?  O modicum, modicum longum—holy
Lord, dost thou call that a little while in which I shall not see thee?  O this little is a long little while!

 

[Exhortation to study
the mystery of the gospel.]

 

           Use
Third. Be you provoked, who are yet stran­gers to this mystery, to get
the knowledge of it—yea, endeavour to gain an intimate acquaintance with
it.  To move you thereunto, I shall
make use of the two arguments: 1.
Consider the Author of this mystery. 
2. The subject-matter of it.

           1.
Argument.  Consider the
Author of the mys­tery of the gospel. 
That book must needs be worth the reading which hath God for the author;
that mys­tery deserves our knowledge which is the product of his infinite
wisdom and love.  There is a divine
glory sitting upon the face of all God's works.  It is impos­sible so excellent an artist should put his hand
to an ignoble work.  ‘O Lord, how
manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all,’ Ps. 104:24.  But there is not the same glory to be
seen in all his works. Our apostle tells us ‘there is one glory of the sun, and
another glory of the moon; one star differs from another in glory.’  Now, among all the works of God that of
man’s redemption may well pass for the master-piece.  The world itself was set up to be a stage for the acting of
this piece of providence, where­in B@8LB@\648@H F@N\" J@Ø 1,@Ø—‘the manifold wisdom of God,’ is so
curiously wrought, that angels themselves pry into it, and are wrapped up into
an admiration of it, Eph.
3:10; I Peter 1:12.  God’s
works deserve our study, and those most wherein he hath drawn the clearest
portraiture of himself.  The gospel
mystery therefore, above all other, should be searched into by us, being the
only glass in which the glory of God is with open face to be seen.

           2.
Argument.  Consider the
subject-matter of the gospel—Christ, and the way of salvation through him.
What poor and low ends have all worldly mysteries! one to make us rich, another
to make us great and honourable in the world, but none to make us holy here or
happy hereafter;—this is learned only from the knowledge of Christ, who is
revealed in the gos­pel, and nowhere else.  No doubt Solomon’s natural history, in which he treated ‘of
all trees from the cedar to the hyssop, of all beasts, fowls, and creeping
things,’ was a rare piece in its kind; yet one leaf of the gospel is infinitely
more worth to us than all that large volume would have been;—so much more precious,
by how much the knowledge of God in Christ is better than the knowledge of
beasts and birds.  And we have
reason to think it a mercy that the book is lost and laid out of our sight,
which we should have been prone to have studied more than the Bible; not that
it was better, but more suitable to the mould of our carnal minds.  But, to a gracious soul, enlightened
with saving knowledge, no book to this of the Bible. Paul was a bred scholar;
he wanted not that learning which commends men to the world, yet counts all
dung and dog’s meat in comparison of ‘the excellency of the knowledge of Jesus
Christ his Lord,’ Php.
3:8.  Well might he call it dog’s meat; for a
man may feed all his lifetime on human learning, and die, in Scrip­ture sense,
a dog at last.  It was the saying
of Bona­venture, that he had rather lose all his philoso­phy than one article
of his faith.  We read that those, Acts 19, were no
sooner converted but they burned their books of curious arts.  Neither were they losers by it; for
they had got acquaintance with one book that was worth them all.

           Of
all creatures in this visible world, light is the most glorious; of all light,
the light of the sun without compare excels the rest.  Were this eye of the world put out, the earth would be a
grot, a grave, in which we should be buried alive.  What were the Egyptians while under the plague of darkness
but like so many dead men? they had friends, but could not see them; estates
abroad in the fields, but could not enjoy them. Now what is the sun to the
sensible world, that is Christ in the gospel to the intellectual world of
souls. Without this ‘light of the knowledge of God in the face of Jesus
Christ,’ what can the soul do or enjoy aright?  Man’s soul is of high, yea royal extraction, for God is ‘the
Father of spirits;’ but this child meets his heavenly Father in the dark, and
knows him not: ‘He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the
world knew him not,’ John
1:10.  And as it is of high birth, so intended
for a high end, to glorify and enjoy God its Maker.  Now, for want of the knowl­edge of Christ it can do neither,
but debaseth itself to the drudgery of sin and sensual embraces of the creature
instead of God, for whom it was at first made; like the son of some great
prince, who, not knowing his royal descent, casts himself away in mar­riage on
some beggar’s daughter.  O how
should we prize and study this mystery therefore that brings us to the true
knowledge of God, and the way how we may recover our interest in him and
happiness with him!  Man’s
primitive happiness consisted in God’s love to him and his likeness to
God.  The gospel dis­covers a way
how man may be restored to both. 
The first it doth, as it is a mystery of faith, by revealing Christ and
his atonement for our reconciliation with God; the latter, as it is a mystery
of godliness, and the instrument with Christ useth in the hand of his Spirit to
create man anew, and as it were the tool to re-engrave the image of God upon
him with.

           Question.  But how may we be led into the sav­ing
knowledge of this mystery?

           (1.)
Think not how to obtain it by the strength of thy reason or natural parts.  It is not learned as other secrets in
nature or human arts, of which those that have the most piercing wit and
strongest brain soon­est get the mastery. 
None have been more mistaken, or erred more foully in their
apprehensions about gospel truths, than the greatest scholars, sons of reason,
and men admired for their parts and learning; the cause whereof may be partly
their pride and self-confidence, which God ever was and will be an enemy to;
and also because the mysteries of the gospel do not suit and jump with the
principles of carnal reason and wisdom. 
Whence it comes to pass that the wiser part of the world, as they are
counted, have com­monly rejected the grand principles of evangelical faith as
absurd and irrational.  Tell a wise
Arian that Christ is God and man in one person, and he laughs at it, as they
did at Paul when he mentioned the resurrection of the body, Acts 17:32, be­cause
the key of his understanding fits not the wards of this lock.  When a merit‑monger hears of being
justified by faith, and not by works, it will not go down with him. It seems as
ridiculous to him that a man should be justified by the righteousness which another
fulfills, as for a man to live by the meat another eats, and be warm with the
clothes another wears.  Tell him,
when he hath lived never so holily, he must renounce his own work, and be
beholden to another’s merit; you shall as soon persuade him to sell his estate,
to get his living by begging at another's door.  These are ‘hard sayings,’ at which they take offence, and go
away, or labour to pervert the simplicity of gospel revelation to their own
sense.  Resolve therefore to come,
when thou readest the gospel, not to dispute with thy Maker, but to believe
what he reveals to be his mind. Call not divine mysteries to give an account to
thy shallow understanding.  What is
this but to try a prince at a subject’s bar?  When thou hast laid aside the pride of thy reason, then thou
art fit to be admit­ted a scholar in Christ’s school, and not till then.

           Objection.  But must we cease to be men when we
become Christians?

           Answer.  No; we cease not to be men, but to be
proud men, when we lay aside the confidence of our own understanding to
acquiesce in the wisdom and truth of God. 
An implicit faith is absurd and irra­tional when a man requires it of
us, who may deceive or be deceived in what he saith.  But when God speaks, it is all the reason in the world we should
believe what he saith to be true, though we cannot comprehend what he saith;
for we know he who is infinite wisdom cannot himself be deceived, and he who is
truth and faithfulness will not deceive us.

           (2.)
Thou must become a disciple to Christ. Men do not teach strangers that
pass by their door, or that come into their shops the mystery of their trade
and profession; but their servants, and such as are willing to be bound
apprentices to them.  Neither doth
Christ promise to reveal the mysteries of the gospel to any but those that will
give up their names to be his servants and disciples: ‘Unto you it is given to
know the mystery of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all
these things are done in parables,’ Mark 4:11.  When once thou hast subscribed to the covenant of the
gospel, thy indenture is sealed, Christ is now thy master he takes thee for one
of his family and charge, and so will look to thy breeding and education; but
for those on whose hearts and affections he hath no hold, they come may be to
the ordinance, but, when the sermon is done, return to their old master
again.  Sin is still their trade,
and Satan their lord; is it like that Christ should teach them his trade?  The mystery of iniquity and of godli­ness
are contrary; the one cannot be learned till the other be unlearned.

           (3.)
If thou wouldst learn this mystery to any purpose, content not thyself with
a brain-notional knowledge of it. 
The gospel hath respect both to the head and heart—understanding and
will.  To the un­derstanding it is
a mystery of faith; to the heart and life it is a mystery of godliness.  Now these two must not be severed:
‘Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience,’ I Tim. 3:9.  Here is both the manna, and a golden
pot to keep it in—truth laid up in a pure conscience.  Knowledge may make thee a scholar, but not a saint;
orthodox, but not gracious. What if thou wert able to write a commentary on all
the Bible, and from the Scripture couldst confute all the errors and heresies
which were at any time broached and vented against the truth; what would this
avail thee, when thy own lusts confute, yea confound, thyself?  ‘If I understand all myster­ies,...and
have not charity, I am nothing,’ I Cor. 13:2. He that increaseth knowledge, and
doth not get grace with his knowledge, increaseth sorrow to himself, yea,
eternal sorrow.  It would be an
ease to gospel sinners in hell if they could rase the remembrance of the gos­pel
out of their memories, and forget that they ever knew such truths.  In thy knowledge therefore of gos­pel
mysteries, labour for these two things especially:

           (a)
To see thy propriety in them. 
Herein lies the pith and marrow of gospel knowledge.  When thou findest what Christ hath done
and suffered for poor sinners, rest not till thou canst say with Paul ‘who
loved me, and gave himself for me,’ Gal. 2:20.  When thou readest any precious promise, thou shouldst ask
thy own soul, as the eunuch did Philip concerning that place of Isaiah, ‘Is it
spoken to me, or of some other?’ 
Am I the pardoned person? 
Am I one in Christ Jesus, to whom there is no condemnation?  How impatient were those two prisoners
till Joseph had opened their dream, that they might know what should befall
them!  The Scripture will resolve
you whether your head shall be lift up to the gibbet in hell, or to the king's
court in heaven.  Now in reading or
hearing it preached, this is it thou shouldst listen after and inquire to
know—where it lays thee out thy portion, whether in the promise or in the
threatening. There is a sweet feast the gospel speaks of, but am I one of
Christ’s guests that shall sit at it? 
There are mansions prepared in heaven, but can I find one taken up for
me there?

           (b)
Labour to find the power and efficacy of gospel truths upon thee.  When our first parents had eaten that
unhappy fruit which gave them and all mankind in them their bane, it is said
then ‘they knew that they were naked;’ doubtless they knew it before their
fall, but now they knew it with shame; they knew it, and sought for clothes to
cover them, of which they found no want before.  I only allude to the place.  Many know what sin is, but it is not a soul-feeling
knowledge: they know they are naked, but are not ashamed for their nakedness;
they see no need of Christ’s righteousness to cover it, and of his grace to
cure it.  Many know Christ died,
and for what he died; but Christ’s death is a dead truth to them, it doth not
procure the death of their lusts that were the death of him.  They know he is risen, but they lie
still themselves rotting in the grave of their corruptions. They know Christ is
ascended to heaven, but this draws not their souls after him.  A philosopher, being asked what he had
got by philosophy, answered, ‘It hath learned me to contemn what others adore,
and to bear what others cannot endure.’ 
If one should ask, What have you got by knowing the mystery of the
gospel?  Truly you can give no
account worthy of your acquaintance with it, except you can say, I have learned
to believe what flesh and blood could never believe have taught me, and to do
what I never could, till I had acquaintance with its heavenly truths.  This is to know ‘the truth as it is in
Jesus,’ Eph.
4:21.  Had a sick man drunk some potion—which
if it works will save his life, if not, will certainly be his death—O how
troubled would he be while [until] he sees some operation it hath upon him!
what means would he not use to set it awork!  If gospel truths work not effectually on thee for thy
renovation and sanctifi­cation, thou art a lost man; they will undoubtedly be
‘a savour of death’ to thee.  O how
can you then rest till you find them transforming your hearts and as­similating
your lives to their heavenly nature! 
Thus Paul endeavoured to know the power of Christ’s resurrection
quickening him to a holy life here, without which he could not attain to a
joyful resurrection hereafter, Php. 3:10, 11. 
The gospel is a glass, but not like that in which we see our bodily
face.  This only shows what our
feature is, and leaves it as it was; but that changeth the very complexion of
the soul ‘from glory to glory,’ II Cor. 3:18.

[The minister’s duty
to make known the gospel.]

 

           Second Observable.  Wherein lies the work of a
gospel minister—‘to make known the mystery of the gospel.’ You have had
the sublime nature of the gos­pel set forth: it is a mystery.  Here the minister’s work is laid out;
he is with all possible clearness and perspicuity to open this mystery and
expose it to the view of the people. 
Mark, ‘the gospel’ is his subject, and ‘to make it known’ is his
duty.  So runs the min­ister’s
commission for his office, ‘Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to
every creature,’ Mark
16:15.  We hear people sometimes saying, The
preacher is beside his text; but he is never beside his errand so long as it is
the gospel he makes known. Whatever is his text, this is to be his design. His
commission is to make known the gospel; to deliver that therefore which is not
reductive to this is beside his instructions.  Nothing but the preaching of the gospel can reach the end
for which the gospel min­istry was appointed, and that is the salvation of
souls, ‘After that in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God, it
pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe,’ I Cor. 1:21.  The great book of the creation had lain
long enough open before the world’s eyes, yet could they never come to the
saving knowledge of God, by all that divine wisdom which is written with the
finger of God in every page thereof.  Therefore it pleased God to send his servants, that by
preaching the gospel, poor souls might believe on Christ, and believing might
be saved. No doctrine but the gospel can save a soul; nor the gospel itself,
except it be made known.

 

[The gospel alone can
save a soul,

and this only when
known.]

 

           First.  No doctrine but the gospel can save
a soul.  Galen may learn you to
save your health if you will follow his rules. Littleton and other law-books
will teach you how to save your estates. 
Plato and other philosophers will learn you how to save your credits
among men, by an outward just inoffensive life.  Their doctrine will be a means to save you from many nasty
and gross sins, by which you may be ap­plauded by your neighbours on earth, and
perhaps less tormented in hell, where Fabricius finds a cooler place than
Cataline.  But it is the gospel
alone where­by you can be taught how to save your souls from hell and bring
them to heaven.  But what do I
speak of these?  It is not God’s
own law—the moral, I mean—that is now able to save you.  God would never have been at such a
vast expense—in the bloodshed of his Son—to erect another law, viz. the law of
faith, if that would have served for this purpose; Gal. 2:21, ‘for if
righteousness come’—yea, or could come—‘by the law, then Christ is dead in
vain.’

           Question.  Why then do ministers preach the law?

           Answer.  They preach it as they should, they
preach it in subserviency to the gospel, not in opposition.  Qui scit benè distinguere inter legem
et evangelium, Deo gratias agat, et sciat se esse theo­logum—he that knows
how to distinguish well be­tween the law and the gospel, let him bless God, and
know that he then deserves the name of a divine.  We must preach it as a rule, not as a covenant, of life.
Holiness, as to the matter and substance of it, is the same that ever it
was.  The gospel destroys not the
law in this sense, but adds a strong enforcement to all its commands.

           Again,
we may and must preach the law as the necessary means to drive souls out of themselves
to Christ in the gospel.  The
gospel is the net with which we should catch souls and draw them out of their
sinning sinking state.  But how
shall we ever get them to come into it? 
Truly never.  Except we
first beat the river with the law’s clubs—threatenings, I mean—sin­ners lie in
their lusts, as fish in the mud, out of which there is no getting them but by
laying hard upon their consciences with the threatenings of the law.  ‘Moreover the law entered, that the
offence might abound,’ Rom.
5:20;
that is, in the con­science by con­viction, not in life by commission and
practice.  The law shows both what
is sin, and also what sin is.  I
mean it tells when we commit a sin, and what a hateful and dangerous thing we
do in committing of it—how we alarm God, and bring him with all his strength
into the field against us.  Now
this is neces­sary to prepare a way for the sinner’s entertaining the
gospel.  The needle must enter
before the thread with which the cloth is sewed.  The sharp point of the law must prick the conscience before
the creature can by the promises of the gospel be drawn to Christ.  The field is not fit for the seed to be
cast into it till the plough hath broken it up.  Nor is the soul prepared to receive the mercy of the gospel
till bro­ken with the terrors of the law.

           Second.  The gospel itself saves not, except
it be made known.  ‘If our
gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost,’ II Cor. 4:3.  Where God sends no light, he intends no
love.  In bodily sickness a
physician may make a cure, though his patient knows not what the medicine is
that he useth.  But the soul must
know its remedy before he can have any healing benefit from it.  John is sent ‘to give knowledge of
salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins,’ Luke 1:77.  No knowledge, no remission.  Christ must be lift up on the pole of
the gospel, as well as on the tree of the cross, that by an eye of faith we may
look on him, and so be healed, John 3:14[3].  ‘Look unto me, and be ye saved,’ Isa. 45:22.  A man that sees may lead another that
is bodily blind to the place he would go. 
But he that would go to heaven must have an eye in his own head to see
his way, or else he will never come there.  ‘The just shall live by his faith,’ Hab. 2:4, not by
another’s.  A proxy faith is
bootless.  Now saving faith is a
grace that sees her object; it is ‘the evidence of things not seen,’ Heb. 11:1; that is,
which are not seen by sense.  ‘I
know,’ saith Paul, ‘whom I have believed,’ II Tim. 1:12.  Therefore faith is oft set out by knowledge: ‘And this is
life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ,
whom thou hast sent,’ John
17:3.  Now, how can they know Christ and life
eternal, till the gospel be made known, which bringeth him and life by him to
light? II
Tim. 1:10.  And by whom shall the gospel be made
known if not by the ministers of it? 
Thus far the apostle drives it: ‘How then shall they call on him in whom
they have not believed? and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not
heard? and how shall they hear without a preacher?’ Rom. 10:14. So that
this great work lies at the minister’s door.  He is to ‘make known the mystery of the gospel.’

           Objection.  But what need now of preaching? this
was the work of those that were to plant a church.  Now the church is planted and the gospel made known, this
labour may be spared.

           Answer.  The ministry of the gospel was not in­tended
only to plant a church, but to carry on its growth also.  What Paul plants, Apollos comes after
and waters with his ministry, I Cor. 3:6. 
When the foundation is laid, must not the house be built?  And this Christ gave ministers to his
church for, ‘For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry,
for the edifying of the body of Christ,’ Eph. 4:12.  The scaffold is not taken down till the building be
finished, but rather to raised higher and higher as the fabric goes up.  Thus Paul went on in his ministry from
lower points to higher, from foundation to su­perstructory truths, Heb 6:1.  A famous church was planted at
Thessalonica, but there was something ‘lacking in their faith,’ which Paul
longed to come and carry on to further perfection I Thes. 3:10.  Surely they that think there is so
little need of preaching, forget that the gospel is a mystery—such a mystery as
can never be fully taught by the minister or learned by the people; neither do
they consider how many engineers Satan hath at work continually to undermine
the gos­pel, both as it is a mystery of faith and godliness also. Hath not he
his seedsmen that are always scattering corrupt doctrine?  Surely then the faithful minister had
need obviate their designs by making known the truth, that his people may not
want an antidote to fortify them against their poison.  Are their not corruptions in the bosoms
of the best, and daily temptations from Satan and the world to draw these
forth, whereby they are always in danger, and oft sadly foiled?  In a word, is not grace planted in a
cold soil, that needs cherishing from a gospel ministry?  Do we not see, that what is got in one
Sabbath by the preaching of the word, is, if not lost, yet much im­paired, by
the next?  Truly our hearts are
like lean ground, that needs ever and anon a shower or else the corn on it
withers and changeth its hue.  O
what barren heaths would the most flourishing churches soon prove if these
clouds did not drop upon them! The Christians to whom Peter wrote were of a
high form, no novices, but well grounded and rooted in the faith; yet this did
not spare the apostle his further pains: ‘I will not be negligent to put you
always in remembrance of these things, though ye know them, and be established
in the present truth,’ II
Peter 1:12.

 

 

 

USE OR
APPLICATION.

 

[Reproof and
encouragement to ministers.]

 

           Use
First. To the ministers. 
To reprove some; for encouragement to others.  It reproves,

           1.
The vainglorious preachers; that, instead of ‘making known the mystery
of the gospel,’ makes it his errand into the pulpit to make himself known; who
blows up his sermon, as butchers do their flesh they sell, with a windy pomp of
words, and frames their discourse rather to tickle their ears, than to profit
their souls; to send them home applauding the preacher for his wit and parts,
rather than admiring the excellencies of Christ and riches of his grace. Thus
many, alas! who should be factors for Christ, play the merchants for their own
credit.  They are sent to woo souls
for Christ, and they speak one word for him and two for themselves.  This is a great wickedness, which blessed
Paul solemnly clears him­self of, ‘Nor a cloke of covetousness; God is witness:
nor of men sought we glory, I Thes. 2:5, 6.  O how sel­dom are any converted by such sermons!  These gloriæ animalia—vainglorious
preachers, they may be, like Rachel, fair, but their ministry is like to be
barren.

           2.
Abstruse preachers; who do not make the mysteries of the gospel known,
but make truths plain in themselves mysterious by their dark perplexed
discourses upon them.  This was the
unhappiness of the schoolmen, that ruffled and ensnarled the plain­est truths
of the gospel with their harsh terms and nice questions, which else might have
been wound off by an ordinary understanding.  What is said of some commentators, ‘The places on which they
treat were plain till they expounded them,’ may be said of some preachers,
their text was clear till their obscure dis­course upon it darkened it.  What greater wrong can a preacher do
his hearers than this?  The
preacher is to open scriptures; but these turn the key the wrong way, and lock
the up from their knowledge.  They
are to hold up the gospel glass before their people, whereby they may see to
dress their souls, like a bride, against their husband’s coming; but by that
time that they have breathed on their text, it is so obscured that they cannot
see their face in it.  That water
is not the deepest that is thickest and muddy; nor the matter always the most
profound when the preacher’s expression is dark and obscure.  We count it a blemish in speech, when a
man's pronunciation is not distinct. 
I know not then how it should come to be thought a perfection to be
obscure in the delivery of our conceptions.  The deeper and fuller the sculp­ture in the seal is, the
clearer the impression will be on the wax. The more fully any man understands a
thing, the more able he will be to deliver it plainly to others.  As a clipped stammering speech comes
from an impediment in the instruments of speech, so a dark and obscure delivery
of our thoughts bewrays a defect in our apprehensions; except it should come
from an affectation of soaring high in our expressions above the reach of
vulgar understandings—and this is worst of all.

           3.
The mere moral preacher; the stream of whose preaching runs not in an
evangelical channel. Moral duties he presseth, and sins against the moral law
he exclaims against.  Neither dare
I blame him for that.  The
Christian’s creed doth not vacate the ten commandments.  One of the first sermons our Sa­viour
preached was most of it spent in pressing moral duties Matt. 5.  And never more need to drive this nail
to the head than in our days, in which Christianity hath been so wounded in its
reputation by the moral dishonesty of many of its professors.  But I level my reproof against them for
this, that they do not preach the law evangelically, and make that the main
design of their ministry for which they received their commission, and that is,
‘to make known the mystery of the gospel’—‘to preach the unsearchable riches of
Christ; and to make all men see what is the fellow­ship of the mystery, which
from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all things by
Jesus Christ,’ Eph.
3:8, 9.  Did it make the father un­dervalue
Cicero’s works—which otherwise he ad­mired for their eloquence—only because his
leaves were not perfumed with the sweet name of Jesus Christ?  Surely then it is a foul blot upon
their ser­mons and labours, who reveal little of Christ and the mystery of the
gospel through the whole course of their ministry.  The woe is pronounced not only against the non-preaching
minister, but the not-gospel-preaching minister also: ‘Woe is unto me, if I
preach not the gospel,’ I
Cor. 9:16.  An ethic lecture will not make thy
people ‘wise unto salvation.’  It
were well if thou couldst preach thy drunken neigh­bour sober and the riotous
temperate.  But this is no more
than Plato did for his Polemo. 
This may make them men that were before beasts; but thou must get them
to be saints, regenerate ones; preach them out of themselves, as well as out of
their flagitious prac­tices; from the confidence of their righteousness, as
well as from the love of their sins; or else thou leavest them short of
heaven.  Well then, smoke, yea
fire, them out of their moral wickednesses, by the threat­enings of the law;
but rest not till thou hast ac­quainted them with Christ, and the way of
salvation by him.  In a word,
preach moral duties as much as thou wilt, but in an evangelical strain.  Convince them they cannot do these
without grace from Christ, for want of which the heathens’ virtues were but splendida
peccata—gilded vices.  Per
fidem venitur ad opera, non per opera venitur ad fidem—we must come to good
works by faith, and not to faith by good works.  The tree must be good before the fruit it bears can be
so.  ‘Without me ye can do
nothing.’  And then convince them,
when they are most exact in moral duties, that this must not be their
righteousness before God; the robe which they must cover their souls with—if
they would not be found naked in his sight—must not be the homespun garment of
their own inherent righteousness wrought in them, but of Christ’s righteousness
which he wrought for them.

           It
affords a word of sweet encouragement to the faithful ministers of Christ.  Haply you have been long at work for
Christ, and see little fruit of your labours; your strength is even spent, and
candle almost at the socket of old age; but your people are still carnal and
obstinate, no sun will tan them, no arguments move them, filthy they are, and
so will continue; to hell they will go, no gate can stop them; thou hast done
thy utmost to reclaim them, but all in vain.  This is sad indeed—to them, I mean—thus to go to hell by
broad daylight, while the gospel shows the whither every step of their sinful
course leads them.  But thou hast
cause of much inward peace and comfort, that thou hast done what God expects at
thy hands.  Remember thy work is,
‘To make known the mystery of the gospel,’ and upon their peril be it if they
embrace it not.  God never laid it
upon thee to convert those he sends thee to.  No; to publish the gospel is thy duty, to receive it is
theirs.  Abraham promiseth to
discharge his servant of his oath, if the woman which he was to woo for his son
would not follow him; and so will God clear thee of their blood, and lay it at
their own door.  ‘If thou warn the
wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness,...he shall die in his iniquity;
but thou hast delivered thy soul,’ Eze. 3:19.  God judgeth not of his servants’ work by the success of
their labour, but by their faithfulness to deliver his message.  ‘Though Israel be not gath­ered, yet
shall I be glorious in the eyes of the Lord,’ Isa. 49:5.

 

[The duty of the
people to make known the gospel.]

 

           Use
Second. To the people. 
As it is the min­ister’s task to make known the mystery of the gospel in
his pulpit, so your duty to do the same in your lives.  The Christian’s life should put his
minister’s sermon in print; he should preach that mystery every day to the eyes
of his neighbours, which the minister preacheth once or twice a week to their
ears.  As a true-made dial agrees
with the sun in its motion, and as a well‑drawn picture resembles the face from
which it was taken, so should thy conversation resemble that gospel which thou
professest.  Let none have cause to
say, what once did of some loose Christians, aut hoc non est evangelium, aut
hi non sunt evangelici —either this is not the gospel, or these are not its
subjects.  What hast thou to do
with any sordid and impure practices, who pretendest to be instructed in this
high and holy mystery?  Thy
Christian name ill agrees with a heathen life.  If thou sufferest any that is not of thy profession to
outstrip thee, yea but to keep pace with thee, in any action  that is virtuous and truly honourable, thou
shamest thyself and the gospel also. 
What a shame were it to find one in some trivial country school that
should be able to pose a graduate in the university!  Thou art trained up in such high and heavenly learning as no
other re­ligion in the world can show, and therefore your lives are to bear
proportion to your teaching.  It
was a sharp reproof to the Corinthian saints, when the apostle said, 6"Jz –<2DT­B@< B,D4B"J,ÃJ,—‘ye walk as
men,’ I
Cor. 3:3;
that is, men in a natural state. And he that walks thus like men, will not walk
much unlike the very beasts; for man is become brutish in his understanding,
and it is worse to live like a beast than to be a beast.

           Surely,
Christians, if you have not your name for nought, you partake of a nature
higher than human. Your feet should stand where other men’s heads are; you
should live as far above the carnal world as grace is above nature, as heaven
is above earth.  Christ would never
have stooped beneath angels, but to raise your hearts and lives above men.  He would never have humbled himself to
take the human nature, but on a design to make us partakers of the divine; nor
would he have walked on earth, but to make a way to elevate our hearts to
heaven.  Say not, therefore, flesh
and blood cannot bear such an injury or for bear such a sensual pleasure.  Either thou art more than a man, or
less than a Christian.  Flesh and
blood never re­vealed the gospel to thee, flesh and blood never re­ceived
Christ; in a word, flesh and blood shall never enter into the kingdom of
God.  If thou beest a Chris­tian,
thou art baptized into the spirit of the gospel; thou hast a heaven-born
nature, and that will enable thee to do more than flesh and blood can do.  Hast thou no desire to see others
converted by the gospel? Wouldst thou steal to heaven alone, and carry none of
thy neighbours with thee?  Now, how
shalt thou win them into a good opinion of the gospel, but by such an amiable
life as may commend it unto their consciences?  It was a charge long ago laid upon Christianity, that it was
better known ‘in leaves of books than in the lives of Christians.’  From hence it is, that many are
hardened in their wickedness and prejudice against the gospel.  He is an unwise fisher­man that scareth
away the fish which he desires to get within his net.  O offend not those, by scandals in thy life, whom thou
wouldst have converted by the preaching of the gospel.  There is now‑a‑days, saith one, much
talk, as if the time for the Jews’ conversion were at hand; but, saith he, the
loose lives of Chris­tians do so disparage this heavenly mystery, that the time
seems further off.  Indeed, the
purity of Chris­tians' lives is the best attractive to win others to the love
of religion.  Had Christ’s doves
more sweet spices of humility, charity, patience, and other heav­enly graces,
in their wings, as they fly about the world, they would soon bring more company
home with them to the church’s lockers. 
This is the gold that should overlay the temple of Christ’s church, and
would make others in love with its beauty.  This was one happy means for the incredible increase of con­verts
in the primitive times.  Then the
mystery of the gospel was made known, not only by the apostles’ powerful
preaching, but by Christians’ holy living.  See how they walked, Acts 2:46; and what was the blessed fruit of it
‘They had favour with all the people, and the Lord added to the church daily
such as should be saved,’ ver.
47.  It would tempt any al­most but a
devil—who loves to live in the fire of con­tention, and is desperately hardened
against all good­ness—to have entered their names into such a heav­enly
society; but when this gold grew dim, then the gospel began to lose its credit
in the world, and con­sequently its takings.  Converts came in slower when those that professed the gospel
began to cool in their zeal and slacken in the strictness of their lives.

 

[The minister is to
declare the gospel
with boldness.]

 

           Third Observable. The manner how
the gos­pel minister is to perform his work—‘that I may open my mouth boldly.’  We must inquire:—First. What
this boldness is the apostle desires prayers for. Second. Wherein the
minister is to express the bold­ness in preaching the gospel.  Third. What kind of boldness it
is that he must show.  Fourth.
Some helps to procure boldness.

           First.
What this boldness is the apostle desires prayers for.  The words are ¦< B"ÖÕ0F\‘, and import
these two things:

           1.
To speak all that he hath in command from God to deliver.  This lies full in the etymon of the
word.  Thus Paul kept nothing back
of God’s counsel, Acts
20:27.  He ‘concealed not the words of the holy
One,’ as Job’s phrase is.

           2.
To speak with liberty and freedom of spirit—without fear or bondage to
any, be they many or mighty.  Now
this is seen, (1.)By speaking openly, and not in corners; the trick of
heretics and false teachers, who ‘privily bring in their damnable
heresies.’  It is said Christ
‘spake them openly’ —¦< B"ÖÕ0F\‘, Mark 8:32.  (2.) By speaking plainly.  It shows some fear in the heart, when our words are dark and
shady—that the preachers’ judgment or opinion cannot easily be spelled from his
words, he lays the so close and ambiguous.  The minister is to speak truth freely and plainly.  This was the apostle’s boldness,
‘Seeing then that we have such hope, we use great plainness of speech,’ B@88± B"ÖÕ0F\‘ PDf­µ,2"—‘we use
great boldness;’ so your margin II Cor. 3:12.

           Second.
Wherein the minister is to show this boldness in preaching the gospel.

           1.
In asserting the truths of the gospel.  He is not to smother truth for the face or fear of any.  Ministers are called witnesses.  A witness is to speak what he knows,
though it be in open court before the greatest of men.  Paul had a free tongue to speak the
truth, even in prison, though he was in bonds, yet he tells us ‘the word of God
is not bound,’ II
Tim. 2:9.  Some truths will go down easily; to
preach these re­quires no boldness. 
The worst in the congregation will give the preacher thanks for his
pains upon some subject; but there are displeasing truths, truths that cross
the opinion, may be, of some in the assembly; to preach these requires a free
and bold spirit.  When Christ was
to preach before the Pharisees, he was not afraid to preach against their errors.  Had some wary preacher been to have stood
in his place, he would have pitched upon such a subject as should not have
offended their tender ears.  There
are truths that ex­pose the preacher to scorn and derision, yet not to be
concealed.  Paul preached the
resurrection, though some in the assembly mocked him for his pains. There are
truths that sometimes may expose the minister to danger—truths that carry the
cross at their back.  Such was that
truth that Isaiah delivered con­cerning the rejection of the Jews.  ‘But Esaias is very bold, and saith, I
was found of them that sought me not,’ Rom. 10:20.  This was like to enrage his country­men, and bring their
fists about his ears.  We read of a
‘word of patience’ which we are to keep, Rev. 3.10.  Such a word as the preacher had need have good store of
patience that delivers it, and Christians that pro­fess it, because it may
bring them into trouble, and draw the persecutor’s sword against them.  This is not always the same.  The word of patience in the apos­tle’s
time was truths levelled against Judaism and heathenism; under the Arian
emperors, it was the deity of Christ; in Luther’s time the doctrine of justi­fication,
and others asserted by him against the Romish church.

           2.
Boldness in reproving sin, and denouncing judgment against impenitent sinners.  They are com­manded ‘to lift up their
voice like a trumpet, and tell Jerusalem her sins.’ ‘Preach the word,’ saith
Paul; ‘be instant in season, and out of season; reprove, rebuke with all
long-suffering.’  He must reprove, and
con­tinue therein while they continue to sin.  The dog ceaseth not to bark so long as the thief is in the
yard. A minister without this boldness is like a smooth file, a knife without
an edge, a sentinel that is afraid to let off his gun when he should alarm the
city upon a danger approaching. 
Nothing more unworthy to see a people bold to sin and the minister
afraid to reprove.  It is said of
Tacitus that he took the same liberty to write the emperor’s lives that they
took in leading them.  So should
the minister in reproving sin, be they who they will.  Not the beggar’s sin, and spare the gentleman's; not the
profane, and skip over the professor’s sin.  It was all one to Christ; whoever sinned should hear of
it.  The scribes and Pharisees,
them he paid to purpose; neither connives he at his own disciples, but rebukes
them sharply.  ‘Get thee behind me,
Satan,’ saith he to Peter; ‘Woman, what have I to do with thee?’ to his own
mother for her unseasonable importunity.

           Third.
What kind of boldness must the min­ister’s be.

           1.
A convincing boldness.  ‘How
forcible are right words?’ saith Job; and how feeble are empty words, though
shot with a thundering voice? 
Great words in reproving an error or sin, but weak argu­ments, produce
laughter oftener than tears. 
Festus thought it ‘unreasonable to send a prisoner, and not withal to
signify the crimes laid against him,’ Acts 25:27.  Much more unreasonable is it in the pulpit to condemn an
error and not prove it so; a practice and not convince of the evil of it.  The apostle saith of some, ‘Their
mouths must be stopped,’ Titus
1:11.  They are convincing arguments that must
stop the mouth.  Empty reproofs
will soon open the mouths of those that are reproved, wider, than shut them.  The Spirit of God reproves by
convincing, ‘And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin,’ ¦8X(­>,4, John 16:8, he will
convince; and so should the minister. 
This is to preach in the evidence and demonstration of the Spirit.

           2.
A wise boldness.  The
minister is to reprove the sins of all, but to personate none.  Paul, being to preach before a
lascivious and unrighteous prince, touched him to the quick, but did not name
him in his sermon.  Felix’s
conscience would save Paul that labour; he ‘trembled,’ though Paul did not say
he meant him.

           3.
A meek boldness.  ‘The words
of wise men are heard in quiet,’ Ecc. 9:17.  Let the reproof be as sharp as thou wilt, but thy spirit
must be meek.  Passion raiseth the
blood of him that is reproved, but com­passion turns his bowels.  The oil in which the nail is dipped makes
it drive the easier, which other­wise have riven the board.  We must not denounce wrath in wrath,
lest sinners think we wish their misery; but rather with such tenderness, that
they may see it is no pleasing work to us to rake in their wounds, but do it,
that we might not by a cruel silence and foolish pity be accessory to their
ruin, which we cordially desire to prevent.  Jeremiah sounds the alarm of judgment, and tells them of a
dismal calamity approaching; yet at the same time appeals to God, and clears
himself of all cruelty towards them: ‘I have not hastened from being a pastor
to follow thee: neither have I desired the woeful day; thou knowest: that which
came out of my lips was right before thee,’ Jer. 17:16.  As if he had said, I have delivered my mes­sage in
denouncing judgment (for I durst do no other), but it was with a merciful
heart; I threatened ruin, but wished for peace.  Thus Daniel, he dealt plainly and roundly with the king, but
ushers in his hard message with an affectionate ex­pression of his love and
loyalty to him: ‘My lord, the dream be to them that hate thee, and the
interpretation thereof to thine enemies,’ Dan. 4:19.

           4.
A humble boldness; such a boldness as is raised from a confidence in
God, not from ourselves, or our own parts and ability, courage or stoutness.
Paul is bold, and yet can tremble and be in fear; bold, in confidence of his
God: ‘We were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much con­tention,’
I Thes.
2:2;
but full of fear in the sense of his own weakness: ‘I was with you in weakness,
and in fear, and in much trembling,’ I Cor. 2:3.

           5.
A zealous boldness.  Our
reproofs of sin must come from a warm heart.  Paul’s spirit was stirred within him when he saw the city
given to idolatry. Jeremiah tells us ‘the word of God was as fire in his
bones;’ it broke out of his mouth as the flame out of a furnace.  The word is a hammer, but it breaks not
the flinty heart when lightly laid on. 
King James said of a minister in his time, he preached as if death was
at his back.  Ministers should set
forth judgment as if it were at the sinner’s back, ready to take hold of him.
Cold reproofs or threatenings, they are like the rum­blings of thunder afar
off, which affright not as a clap over our head doth.  I told you the minister’s boldness must be meek and
merciful, but not to prejudice zeal. 
The physician may sweeten his pill to make his patient to swallow it
better; but not to such a degree as will weaken the force of its operation.

           Fourth.  We promised to propound some helps
to procure this boldness.

           1.
A holy fear of God.  We fear
man so much be­cause we fear God so little.  One fear cures another as one fire draws out another.  When your finger is burned you hold it
to the fire; when man’s terror scares you, turn your thoughts to meditate on
the wrath of God.  This is the
plaster God lays to Jer­emiah’s wrists to cure his anguish distemper of man’s
fear. ‘Be not dismayed at their faces, lest I confound thee before them,’ Jer. 1:17.  If we must be broken in pieces—so is
the original—better man do it than God. 
What man breaks in pieces God can make whole again.  ‘He that loseth his life for my sake
and the gospel’s, the same shall save it,’ Mark 8:35.  But if God break us in pieces, it is beyond the skill of man
to gather the sherds, and remake what God hath marred.

           2.
Castle thyself within the power and promise of God for thy assistance and
protection.  He that is a
coward in the open field grows valiant and fearless when got within strong
walls and bulwarks.  Jeremiah was
even laying down is arms, and fleeing from the face of those dangers which his
ministry to a rebel­lious and enraged people exposed him.  Hear what course he had in his thoughts
to take, because the word of the Lord was made a reproach to him, and a
derision daily: ‘Then I said, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any
more in his name,’ Jer.
20:9.
Now what kept him from this cowardly flight?  ‘But the Lord is with me as a mighty terrible one,’ ver. 11.  Now he takes heart, and goes on with his
work un­dauntedly.  Our eye, alas!
is on our danger, but not on the invisible walls and bulwarks which God hath
promised to set about us.  The
prophet’s servant, that saw the enemy's army approaching, was in a panic
fright; but the prophet, that saw the heavenly host for his lifeguard about
him, cared not a rush for them all. If God be not able to protect thee, why
dost thou go on his errand at all? 
If thou believest he is, why art thou afraid to deliver it when he is
able to deliver thee?

           3.
Keep a clear conscience.  He
cannot be a bold reprover that is not a conscientious liver.  Such a one must speak softly for fear
of waking his own guilty conscience. 
He is like one that shoots in a rusty foul piece, his reproofs recoil
upon himself.  Unholiness in the
preacher’s life either will stop his mouth from reproving, or the people's ears
from receiving what he saith.  O
how harsh a sound does such a cracked bell make in the ears of its auditors!  Every one desires, if he must be
smitten, that it may be by the hand of ‘the righteous,’ Ps. 141:5.  Good counsel from a wicked man is
spoiled by his stinking breath that delivers it. Our Saviour was fain to bid
them hear the Pharisees, because their persons were a scandal to their doc­trine,
Matt.
23:2, 3.  Even those that are good are too prone
to turn their back off the ordinance for the scandal of him that
officiates.  This is their weakness
and sin; but woe be to them at whose wickedness they stumble upon this temptation.  It shows the man hath a very good stomach,
that can eat his dinner out of a slovenly cook’s hands; and a very sound
judgment and quick appetite to the word, that can fall to and make a hearty
meal of it without any squeamish scru­pulosity or prejudice from the
miscarriages of the preacher.

           4.
Consider that which thou most fearest is best prevented by thy freedom and
holy boldness in thy ministry. 
Is it danger to thy life thou fearest?  No such way to secure it as by being faithful to him that
hath the sole dispose of it.  In
whose hands thinkest thou are thy times? 
Surely in God’s. Then it is thy best policy to keep him thy friend; for,
‘when thy ways please him, he can make thy enemies to be at peace with thee.’  Man-pleasing is both endless and
needless.  If thou wouldst, thou
couldst not please all; and if thou couldst, there is no need, so thou pleasest
one that can turn all their hearts or bind their hands. They speed best that
dare be faithful.  Jonah was afraid
of his work.  O he durst not go to
such a great city with so sad a message! 
To tell them they should be destroyed was to set them awork to destroy
him that brought the news.  But how
near was he losing his life by running away to save it?  Jeremiah seemed the only man like to
lose his life by his bold preach­ing, yet had fairer quarter at last than the
smooth preachers of the times. 
However, it is better to die honourably than live shamefully.  Is it thy name thou art tender of?  If thou beest free and bold, the word
thou deliverest will be a reproach and daily derision to thee, as once to
Jeremiah.  Thou mayest, indeed, be
mocked by some, but thou wilt be reverenced by more; yea, even they that wag
their heads at thee carry that in their conscience which will make them fear
thee.  They are the flattering
preachers—who are ‘partial in the law’—that become ‘base’ among the people, Mal. 2:9.

           5.
Consider, if thou beest not now bold for Christ in thy ministry, thou canst
not be bold before Christ at his judgment-bar.  He that is afraid to speak for Christ will certainly be
ashamed to look on his face then. 
‘We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ,’ &c., II Cor. 5:10.  Now what use doth Paul make of this
solemn meditation?  ‘Knowing
therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men,’ ver. 11. It is no
wisdom to provoke the judge by flat­tering the prisoner.  A serious thought of that day, as we
are going to preach, would make us shut all base fear out of the pulpit.  It is a very small thing to be judged
by man now for our boldness, but dismal to be condemned by Christ for our
cowardice.  This is man’s
judgment-day, as Paul calls it, I Cor. 4:3. 
Every one dares tax the preacher, and pass his sentence up­on him, if he
please not his itching ear; but Christ will have his judgment-day also, to
judge them that now take upon them to judge others, and his sentence will
easily reverse theirs.  Yea, even
those that now condemn thy freedom thy freedom to reprove would be the first to
accuse thee for thy sinful silence. 
The wicked servant, who likes the remissness of his mas­ter’s government—whereby
he may play his ungodly pranks without control—cries out of him at the gal­lows,
and is oft heard there to lay both his sin, and sad catastrophe of his life to
which it brings him, at his master's door; saying, ‘If he had reproved me, the
magistrate had not condemned me; if he had done his duty, the hangman had not
now been to do his office.’ Thus may some at the last day accuse their cowardly
ministers, and say, ‘If they had told them their danger, they had not run into
it; if they had been bold to reprove their sin, they had not been so impudent
to live in the practice of it, which now hath brought them to everlasting shame
and misery.’

           6.
Consider how bold Christ was in his ministry. His very enemies were
forced to give him this testi­mony, ‘We know that thou sayest and teachest
rightly, neither acceptest thou the person of any, but teachest the way of God
truly,’ Luke
20:21.  He spared not the proudest of them, but
to their head reproved them, and denounced the judgment of God against them.  When in the midst of his enemies, he
was not daunted with their high looks or furious threats, but owned that very
truth which they made his capital crime, Matt. 27:11; John 18:37.  Hence Paul saith of him that ‘before
Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confes­sion,’ I Tim. 6:13; and useth
this as the most powerful argument to conjure Timothy to be faithful in his
ministry.  What greater incentive
to valour can the soldier have, than to see his general before him stand with
undaunted courage where the bullets fly thick­est?  Such valiant captains do not use to breed white-livered
soldiers.  It is impossible we
should be das­tardly if instructed by him and acted with his spirit. When the
high-priest and elders ‘saw the boldness of Peter and John’—who were convented
before them —they soon knew where they had got this heroic resolved spirit; for
it is said, ‘they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus,’ Acts 4:13.

           7.
Pray and beg prayers, for this holy boldness. Thus did the apostles come
by it.  Their natural bold­ness was
not the product of any natural greatness of spirit they had above others.  You see what stout soldiers they were
in themselves by their poor-spirited behaviour at Christ’s attachment, when
they all ran away in a fright, and left him to shift for himself.  No; this boldness was the child of
prayer; it was not bred in them, but granted from heaven unto them at their
humble suit. See them praying hard for it: ‘Now, Lord, behold their
threatenings: and grant unto thy servants, that with all boldness they may
speak thy word,’ Acts
4:29.  Mark, they do not pray against suf­fering,
but for ‘boldness’ to preach, whatever it may cost them.  They desire not to be excused the
battle, but to be armed with courage to stand in it.  They had rather be lift above the fear of suffering, than
have an immunity from suffering. 
Let God but give them boldness to do their duty, and stand to their
tackling, and they have enough. 
Now see how soon God sets his fiat to their prayers: ‘And when they had
prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together; and they were
all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness,’ ver. 31.  There is the grace they desired,
dropped into their bosom, in a farther measure than ever they had it.  If the soldier hath a desire to fight
for his prince, no doubt he may have arms for asking.  If this be thy sincere request, God will not deny it.  See them also sending others to God
upon this errand for them, Col. 4:3, and here in the text.  Certainly people cannot de­sire that of
God for their minister which both he and they need more.  It is a difficult duty to them, but
necessary for you.  He cannot be a
faithful minister that dares not deliver all his message. When Mauritius the
emperor had inquired of Phocas’ dis­position, he said, si timidus est,
homicida est—if he be timorous, he is a murderer.  He that fears his people’s faces is the man that is most
like to murder their souls; so that you pray for yourselves, while you
endeavour to pray down this gift upon your minister.

 

BRANCH FOURTH.

 

[The double argument of Paul enforcing
his

request for the
prayers of believers].

 

‘For which I
am an ambassador in bonds.’

 

           We
are at length got to the last general head in the words—the double argument
with which the apostle backs his request, the more effectually to provoke
them to the remembrance of him in their prayers.  First. Taken from
his office—‘for which I am an ambas­sador.’  Second. From
his present af­flicted state—‘an ambassador in bonds.’

 

[An argument for
Paul’s request,

taken
from his office.]

 

           First argument. Paul enforces his
request for his people’s prayers by an argument taken from his office.  Ambassadors being messengers of state,
sent by princes abroad about great affairs of their king­dom, it behoves all
good subjects to wish them good speed and success in their embassy.  Upon this ac­count, Paul, being sent
from the great God in embas­sage as the apostle of the Gentiles, desires the
church’s prayers for a happy success to the message he brings.

           Note.  Ministers of the gospel are God’s ambas­sadors.  The apostle doth not monopolize this
title, as if none were so beside himself; for elsewhere he reads others in the
commission, ‘We are ambassadors for Christ,’ II Cor. 5:20—that is, we
apostles who are now upon the place, and in the employment of the gospel, and
such also as shall be despatched after us to the end of the world upon the same
errand.  The author­ity of the
apostles’ extraordinary commission, and that which ordinary ministers after
them have, is the same for substance, only they had their mission im­mediately
from Christ’s mouth, and were ecumenical; whereas ordinary ministers receive it
from the church by an authority derived from Christ, and are fixed to their
particular orbs, and are to lie as ambassadors legier in some one place whither
they are sent.  In handling this
point we shall inquire into these three particulars.  First. Why ministers are called ambassa­dors.  Second. Why God would send ambassadors
to his poor creature.  Third.
Why he useth weak men and not glorious angels, to be his ambassadors in this
negotiation.

 

[Why ministers are called ambassadors.]

 

           First.
Let us inquire why ministers are called ambassadors: and that is, 1. To
set out the dignity of their function. 
2. To set out the duty of their func­tion.

 

[The dignity of the ministry is
expressed

by the title
‘ambassadors.’]

 

           1.
Ministers of the gospel are by God designated ambassadors, to set out the dignity
of their office. God by this title would procure and honourable esteem of
the ministers’ calling in the hearts of all those to whom they are sent.  This is more necessary to the good
success of their message than is generally thought.  I know very well that what ministers speak on this subject,
they are thought in it to be rather kind to themselves, than friends to the
gospel.  Men are prone to interpret
it as a fruit of their pride, and an affectation they have of some outward
grandeur and worldly pomp which they design to gain by such a magnificent
title.  The apostle himself was
sensible of this, and therefore, when he had called for that respect which was
due to the minister’s function —‘Let a man so account of us, as of the
ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God’—he gives a caveat,
that they would ‘judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come,’ I Cor. 4:1, 5. Then it
shall be known from what spirit it is that we ministers magnify our office, and
have been acted by in our function; and also by what spirit they are moved who
vilify and despise both it and our persons for our calling's sake.  Now the dignity of gospel ambassadors
will appear in three things.

           (1.)
In the greatness of the Prince from whom they come.  Ambassadors have their respect
according to the rank of their master that sends them; the greater the prince,
the more honourable is his mes­senger. 
Now, the ministers of the gospel come from the great God, who is ‘King
of kings and Lord of lords’—by whom they reign and of whom they hold all their
principalities.  This is their
Master in whose name they come. 
Therefore Moses, when he was to deliver his message to Israel, bids them
‘ascribe great­ness to that God’ whose name and will he was to publish, Deut. 32:3.  The potentates of the world have found
to their cost how deeply God takes himself concerned in the affronts that are
done to his serv­ants.  What
brought Israel's flourishing kingdom to ruin but their mocking his messengers
and misusing his prophets?  Then
‘the wrath of God arose against his people, till there was no remedy,’ II Chr. 36:16.  We cannot despise the messenger and
honour his master that sends him, Luke 10:16.  Few are so bold as to say with that proud king, ‘Who is the
Lord, that I should obey his voice?’ Ex. 5:2.  But too many dare say, Who is the minister, that I should
obey his message? —repent at his summons, tremble at the words he delivers?
forgetting, alas! they have God’s authority for what they say; and so, by a
slanting blow, they hit God himself in contemning his ambassador.

           (2.)
In the greatness of the Person whose place the minister supplies.  Ministers are but deputy am­bassadors;
Christ himself had the first patent; called therefore ‘the Messenger of the
covenant,’ Mal.
3:1;
and ‘the Apostle...of our profession,’ Heb. 3:1.  From him the ministers receive their authority: ‘All power
is given unto me,...Go ye therefore, and teach all nations,’ Matt. 28:18.  So, II Cor. 5:20, ‘We pray you in Christ’s stead, be
ye reconciled to God.’  As if the
apostle had said, We do but deliver that message which Christ should and would
have done had he not been called to heaven about the affairs of his church; and
therefore hath left us as his deputies to carry out that ministry which himself
began when he was here below.  Now,
what an honour is it for a poor creature to stand up in Christ’s room and bring
that message to poor sinners which was first committed unto him?

           (3.)
In the excellency of the message they bring. There are three kinds of
embassies in the world which make way for their honourable entertainment that
are the messengers to bring them to any state—embassies for peace, embassies
for marriage, and embassies for trade.

           (a)
Embassies for peace.  Beautiful
are their feet, and honoured are their persons, that bring glad ti­dings of
peace along with them; especially four things concur in their embassage, which
will all be found in the minister’s negotiation.

           [1.]
When an ambassador comes from some puissant prince whose power is formidable
and arm­ies irresistible.  An
ambassador from such a prince, to a people naked and unarmed, for peace and
amity, O how welcome is his approach! Such a king we come from.  He offers not peace because he cannot
main­tain a war or stands in need of our friendship.  Sin­ners need his favour, but he fears not their hostility.
Never could they yet shoot any of their arrows so high as heaven, but all have
come down upon their own heads. 
What can he that spits against the wind, but look to have it blown back
upon his own face? and he that fights with God, but expect to have his weapons
beat back to his own head?  Worldly
princes treat when they cannot fight. 
Think not so of the great God. 
His instruments of death are ready.  No place where he hath not his armed troops able to fetch in
his proudest enemies.  No creature
so little but con­tains an army in it big enough to tame the proudest king in
the world.  The worm under Herod’s
foot, at God’s command, shall seize on him and eat out his heart. O with what
fear and trembling should the ambassadors of this God be received!  When Samuel the prophet came to
Bethlehem, ‘the elders of the town trembled at his coming, and said, Comest
thou peaceably?’ I
Sam. 16:4.

           [2.]
When such a puissant prince sends his am­bassadors for peace to a people
that have already felt the impressions of his power, and are pining under the
bleeding miseries which their war with him has brought upon them, O how
would they run to open their city gates to his ambassador!—as willingly surely
as Noah opened the window to receive the dove that brought the olive‑branch
after that dismal flood.  This is
the deplored state which the ministry of the gospel finds mankind involved
in.  What a forlorn condition hath
our war with heaven brought us into! 
Do we not feel the arrows of divine vengeance sticking in our very
hearts and consciences?  The curse
of God cleav­ing to every faculty of our souls and member of our bodies?  Are not all the creatures in arms
against us? and doth not hell from beneath open its devouring mouth upon us,
ready to swallow us in everlasting destruction?  And yet we are so stout that we can find no lodging in our
town for his ambassadors, but a prison? no entertainment to the offers of peace
they make, but contempt and scorn?

           [3.]
When the terms of peace he brings are hon­ourable.  Gold, we say, may be bought too dear,
and so may the peace of one state with another; as when Nahash the Ammonite
offered peace to the men of Jabesh‑Gilead, but upon condition that they should
have ‘every one his right eye thrust out, to lay it as a reproach on Israel,’
and therefore was rejected with just indignation; they resolving rather to die
with hon­our than live with shame. 
It is the custom among many of this world’s princes to make their demands
according to the length of their sword. 
When their power is great it is hard to have peace on easy terms. Now
this, one would think, should make the min­isters of the gospel and their
message infinitely wel­come to poor sinners, that, though they come from the
great God that may make his own demands—for who may say to God, ‘What doest
thou?’—and might not only require the eye out of your head, but force the very
heart out of your body; yet offers peace on such gracious terms, that we could
not possibly have framed them so to our own advantage, had we been left to draw
them, as he of his own free grace is pleased to propound them; there being
nothing in the whole instrument of peace provided for himself, besides the
securing of his own glory in our salvation. See, a little, what he offers to
poor sinners, and what he requires of them again.  He offers to seal an act of oblivion, wherein all wrongs
done to his crown and dignity in the time of our hostility against him shall be
forgiven and forgotten.  So runs
the promise, ‘He will forgive them their iniquities, and remember them no
more.’  He will not only forgive
what is past, but receive our persons into favour for the future.  A prince may save a malefactor's life,
but forever banish his person from court. 
But God promiseth access into his presence.  ‘By whom also we have access by faith into this grace (or
favour) wherein we stand,’ Rom. 5:2. 
Yea, he promiseth to restore the sinner to all that by his rebellion was
forfeited.  Treason taints the
blood, degrades from honour, and confiscates the estate; God offers to take off
the whole curse which befell the sinner for his rebellion, and restores him to
his primitive dignity.  He ‘gives
them power to be­come his children,’ John 1:12, and, as his children, makes them his
heirs, and that not to a Cabul here below only, but to heaven itself, an
inheritance in light beyond all expression glorious; for godliness hath both
the promise of this life and that which is to come.

           Now,
let us see what he expects at the sinner’s hand.  Not to purchase this his favour  with a ransom out of his own purse!  No, he empties his Son’s veins to pay
that.  But he requires us, (a)
To lay down the weapons of our rebellion—for he cannot in honour treat with us
while we have that sword in our hand with which we have fought against
him.  (b) To accept our
pardon and peace at the hands of free grace; at­tributing the glory of it to
the mere mercy of God as the moving, and Christ’s satisfactory obedience as the
meritorious cause.  (c) That
we shall swear fealty and allegiance to him for the future.  How reasonable these are, those that
now reject them shall confess with infinite shame and horror for their folly,
when Christ shall pack them to hell by his irrevocable sentence.

           [4.]  When in all this a prince is real in
the offers of peace he makes, and gives full security for the per­formance of
what he promiseth, this must needs make the ambassador that brings them
still the more welcome.  Treaties
of peace among men are too often used but as a handsome blind for war—they
intend least what they pretend most. 
But when an ambas­sador comes plenipotentiary, and enabled to give full
security and satisfaction against all fears and jeal­ousies that may arise in
the breasts of those he treats with, this gives a value to all the rest.  Now, the great God hath wonderfully
condescended to satisfy the querulous hearts of poor sinners.  Guilt hath made man suspicious of God;
his own unfaithfulness to God makes him jealous of God’s faithfulness unto him.  Could Satan make Eve so question the
truth of God's promise?  He saith
but, ‘Ye shall not surely die?’ and she is presently shaken out of her faith on
her Maker to believe her destroyer. 
O how easy then is it for him to nourish those suspicions which do nat­urally
breed now in our unbelieving hearts! 
How oft are we putting it to the question, Will God forgive so great, so
many sins?  May I venture to
believe?  Now God gives his
ambassadors full instructions from his word to satisfy all the doubts and
scruples which he injects, or which may arise from our own misgiving
hearts.  Tota Scriptura hoc agit,
saith Luther, ne dubitamus sed certò speremus—the whole Scripture drives
at this, to satisfy our doubts, and assure our hopes in the mercy of God.  St. Paul hath a passage something like
this, ‘Whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning,
that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope,’ Rom. 15:4.

           There
are many expedients men use to satisfy the minds of those they deal with
concerning the truth of their promises and certainty of their perform­ing
them.  Sometimes they ratify them
with their seal set to the writing. 
Thus God gives the broad seal of the sacraments, and privy seal of his
Spirit, to assure the believer he will perform all he hath promised in his
word.  Sometimes witnesses are
called in for further security of the conveyance.  Thus in the pur­chase Jeremiah made of his kinsman’s field,
he took witnesses to the bargain, Jer. 32:10. See witnesses both in heaven and
earth, ready to vouch the truth of what God promiseth, and all agree in their
verdict, I
John 5:7, 8.  If all these will not do, then an oath
is taken, and this useth to be ‘an end of controversies.’  To this also doth God graciously
condescend.  Not that God’s promise
needs the suretiship of his oath to make it surer—for it is as impossible God
should lie when he promiseth as when he swears—but to make our faith stronger,
which needs such supporters as these to stay and strengthen it; as is hinted in
that sweet place, from which one flower the sincere believer may suck honey
enough to live comfortably upon in the hardest longest winter of affliction
that can befall him: ‘Wherein God, willing more abundantly to shew unto the
heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath: that
by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might
have a strong consolation,’ &c., Heb. 6:17, 18.   Now, the greater the security God enables his am­bassadors
to offer poor sinners for the salvation they preach in his name, the more
prodigiously provoking is their unbelief and impenitency who reject it.  When Titus Vespasian came into
Jerusalem, and saw the unspeakable miseries which the besieged had endured from
those three sore plagues, sword, pestilence, and famine, that had so long raged
among them, it is said that he broke out into these words, ‘I am not guilty of
all this blood which hath been shed, nor of the miseries this people have
endured; that by their obstinacy have brought it upon their own heads.’  O how much more may the ambassadors of
Christ wash their hands over the heads of impenitent sinners, to whom they have
so oft offered pardon and peace in God's name, but they would not hearken, and
say, ‘We are free from your blood; it is your own obstinacy and desperate
impenitency hath undone your pre­cious souls.  Would you have accepted life at the hands of mercy, you
should not have been cut off by the sword of his justice.’

           (b)
Embassies for marriage.  To
offer an alliance by marriage between one state and another, this is one great
part of the minister’s embassage. 
They are sent to let the world know what good-will the God of heaven
bears to poor sinners; that he can be content to bestow his only Son and heir
in marriage upon them, if they also upon treaty can like the match.  Nay more, both Father and Son desire
it.  It is a match which God
himself first thought on for his Son. It sprang from the counsel of his own
will; and when this great intendment was transacted betwixt Father and Son—as
it was before the foundation of the world—the Son declared his liking of it to
his Father, yea, expressed the dear affection he bore to mankind; for then it
was that he ‘rejoiced in the inhabitable parts of the earth, and his delights
were with the sons of men.’  In
pursuance of this, ‘when the fulness of time was come,’ he took his progress
from heaven to earth, that by marrying our nature he might also enter a near alliance
with the persons of believers. 
This is the match God's ambassadors come to negotiate with you.  The Scriptures are their credential
letters, that confirm, under God’s own handwriting and seal, the truth of all
they offer in his name.  There you
have the picture of his heavenly Prince they woo your af­fections for drawn to
the life in his glory, love, and loveliness, that, by knowing him, you may the
better take liking to his person; there are the rich bracelets of the promises,
which his messengers are in his name to deliver to those willing souls that
shall entertain the motion, and declare their consent to take him for their
Lord and husband; yea, they have authority to pronounce the contract, and to
promise in Christ’s name marriage, which at the great day he will perform unto
them: ‘I have espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste
virgin to Christ,’ II
Cor. 11:2.  Stand here and adore, ye children of
men, this low stoop of divine majesty! 
O that ever it should enter into the heart of the great God to match his
Son unto his creature, and that not of the noblest house among them! for ‘he
took not upon him the nature of angels,’ but of mankind, not in its primitive
state, but when it was lapsed and degraded of its primitive glory.  For a high-born prince to take a poor
damsel out of the beggar's row, is a thing that yet the world hath not been
acquainted with.  But to take one
from the meanest cottage were not so strange as to take her from the jail or
bar, where she is condemned for treason against his royal person.  Yet this is the very case—the Lord
offers to lift up the head of his rebel creature out of prison, where it lies
under a sentence of death for horrid treason against his crown and dig­nity, to
take it into his bed and bosom. 
Truly I know not at which most to wonder; whether at the mercy of God in
making love to us, or our pride and folly that are so coy hardly persuaded to
entertain the motion. Though Abigail confessed herself unworthy to be David’s
wife, yet she was too wise to stand in her own light, by letting slip such an
opportunity for her pre­ferment as was not like again to occur; therefore it is
said, ‘She made haste to go with David’s servants.’ But alas! how do we either
broadly deny, or foolishly make excuse, and hold God’s messengers in suspense
from day to day.

           (c)
Embassies for commerce and trade. 
Suppose a prince had in his kingdom rich commodities, with­out which his
neighbour nation could not subsist, nor could find elsewhere; if this prince
should send an ambassador to this people, and offer them a free trade, that
they might come as oft as they pleased and take of the good things of his land,
O how joyfully would such an embassy be embraced!  Man’s happi­ness on earth lies in a free trade and commerce
with heaven.  This world is a
barren beggarly place.  Noth­ing is
here to be had that an immortal soul can live upon or find satisfaction
from.  In heaven alone what it
needs is to be found.  The food it
must live on, the clothes it must wear, are both of the growth of this heavenly
country.  Man’s first sin spoiled
all his trade with heaven.  No
sooner did Adam rebel, but a war was commenced, and all trade with him
forbidden. Therefore, in our natural state, we are said to be ‘afar off,’ and
‘without God in the world.’  The
sad effects of this loss are to be seen in the forlorn condition of man's soul,
which was once was so gloriously arrayed with righteousness and holiness, but
now shamefully naked—not having a rag to cover its shame withal.

           Now,
God sends his ambassadors to offer peace, and with it liberty to return to its
first communion with him: ‘Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters,
and he that hath no money; come ye, buy, and eat; yea, come, buy wine and milk
without money and without price.’ 
He invites all to turn merchants with heaven, ‘Come ye to the waters;’
by which phrase the gospel is compared to a port-town, or its quay-side, to
which the crier calls people to repair, and buy commodities that are there
landed.  Here it is that God sets
forth the riches of his grace to view and sale ‘without money and without
price.’  That must needs be a
gainful trade which brings in rich treasure without much cost exported.  Here is all the riches of heaven to be
had, and no money required for the pur­chase.  Can you hear of this pearl of price, and not turn merchants
for it?  Or can your souls be main­tained
by your peddling worldly trade?  O,
why do ye spend your money for that which is not bread?  It is not necessary you should be rich
in the world, but it is necessary you should have Christ and his grace.  In all your pains and travail for the
things of this world, you are but merchant adventurers—it is a hazard you get
them or lose your labour.  There is
no certain rule and method can be learned for growing rich in the world.  There are some poor as well as rich of
every trade; but, in this trade for Christ and his grace, there is an office
erected to insure all your adventure. 
His soul shall live that seeks the Lord; he that hungers after
righteousness shall be satisfied.

 

[The duty of the ministry is set out

by the title
‘ambassadors.’]

 

           2.
Ministers of the gospel are by God designated ambassadors, to set out the
duty of their office. Where there is honos there is onus—places
of honour are places of trust and service.  Many like well enough to hear of the minister’s dignity—with
Diotrephes, they love pre-eminence—that would willingly be ex­cused the labour
that attends it.  None have a
greater trust deposited in their hands than the minister.  It is tremendum onus—a weight that
made the apostle tremble under it: ‘I was among you,’ saith Paul, ‘with much
fear and trembling.’ To them is ‘committed the word of reconciliation,’ II Cor. 5:19.  If the treaty of peace between God and
sinners doth not speed, the ambassador is sure to be called to an account how
he discharged his place.  But more
of the minister’s duty as an ambassador afterwards.

 

[Why God delivers his
gospel by

ambassadors
from mankind.]

 

           Second.
The second thing we propounded to give an account of was, why God would send
ambassa­dors to his poor creature. 
I answer,

           1.
Negatively.

           (1.)
Not because he needs man’s good-will. Earthly princes’ affairs require
they should hold a cor­respondence with their neighbours, therefore they send
ambassadors to preserve peace or preserve amity.  But God can defend his crown without the help of allies.

           (2.)
Not because he was bound to do it. 
There is a law of nations, yea of nature, that obliges princes before
they commence a war to offer peace. 
But the great God cannot be bound, except he binds himself.  When Adam sinned, God was free, and
might have chosen whether he would make a new league with man, or take
vengeance on him for breaking his faith in the first.  But,

           2.
Affirmatively.  No other
account can be given of this but the good-will and free-grace of God. When
Christ, who is the prime Ambassador, landed first on earth, see what brought
him hither, ‘Through the tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring from on
high hath visited us,’ Luke
1:78.  Tender mercy indeed, for the life of
man lay under God’s foot at his pure mercy.  He was no more bound to treat with his creature than a
prince with a traitor legally con­demned. 
Wherever God’s ambassadors come, they come on mercy's errand: ‘The Lord
God of their fathers sent to them by his messengers, rising up betimes, and
sending; because he had compassion on his people,’ II Chr. 36:15.

           Question.
But if God will treat with his poor creatures, why doth he it by
ambassadors, and not by himself immediately?

           Answer.
This is the fruit of divine indulgence. Sin hath made the presence of God
dreadful; man cannot now well bear it. 
What a fright was Adam put into when he heard but the voice of God
walking towards him in the garden, and not furiously rushing upon him?  The Jews had the trial of this; they
soon had enough of God’s presence, and therefore came to Moses, saying, ‘Speak
thou with us,...but let not God speak with us, lest we die,’ Ex. 20:19.

 

[Why God useth men, and not angels,

as his ambassadors.]

 

           Third.
But if God will use ambassadors, why does he not employ some glorious angels
from heaven to bring his message, rather than weak and frail men?

           Answer
(1). The apostle gives us the reason: ‘We have this treasure in earthen
vessels, that the excel­lency of the power may be of God, and not of us,’
II Cor.
4:7;
¦< ÏFJD"6­\<T4H F6,b,F4<—in vessels
of shell.  As the precious pearl is
found in a shell, so this precious treasure of the gospel shall be found in
frail men, that the excellency of the work may be of God. The more contemptible
the instrument, the more glorious appears his divine power in using it for so
high and noble an end.  To see a
man wound another with a sword that is sharp and weighty would carry no wonder;
but to wound him with a feather in his hand, this would speak it a
miracle.  To see men fall down and
tremble when an angel—a creature of such might and glory—is the speaker, is no
great wonder; but to behold a Felix quivering on the bench, while a man, and he
a poor prisoner at the bar, preacheth to his judge, this carries a double
wonder.  First, that so poor a
creature as Paul was, and in the condition of a prisoner, durst be so bold; and
also, that so great a person as Felix was should be smitten with his words, as
if some thunderbolt had struck him. 
Who will not adore the power of a God in the weakness of the
instrument?  Had God employed
angels in this busi­ness, we should have been in danger of ascribing the
efficacy of the work to the gifts and parts of the instrument, and of giving
credit to the message for the messenger’s sake that is so honourable.  But now, God sending those that are
weak creatures like our­selves, when anything is done by them, we are forced to
say, ‘It is the Lord's doing,’ and not the instruments'.  What reason God had this way to pro­vide
for the safe-guarding his own glory, we see by our proneness to idolize the
gifts of men, where they are more eminent and radiant than in others.  What would we have done if angels had
been the mes­sengers?  Truly, it
would have been hard to have kept us from worshipping them, as we see John
himself had done, if he had not been kept back by the angel’s seasonable
caveat, Rev.
19:10.

           Answer
(2). Ministers, being men, have an ad­vantage many ways above angels for the
work.

           (a)
As they are more nearly concerned in the message they bring than angels
could have been; so that they cannot deceive others, without a wrong to their
own salvation.  What greater
argument for one’s care than his own interest?  Surely that pilot will look how he steers the ship that hath
an adventure in the freight.

           (b)
Their affections have a naturalness arising from the sense of those very
temptations in them­selves which their brethren labour under.  This an angel could not have; and by
this they are able to speak more feelingly to the condition of other men than
an angel could do.  So that what
man wants of the angels’ rhetoric is recompensed with his natural affection and
sympathy flowing from experience. 
He knows what a troubled conscience is in another, by having felt it
throb in his own bosom; as God told his people, having been themselves
sojourners in Egypt, ‘You know the heart of a stranger.’  And who will treat poor souls with more
mercy than they who know they need it themselves?

           (c)
The sufferings which ministers meet with for the gospel’s sake are of
great advantage to their breth­ren. 
Had angels been the ambassadors they could not have sealed to the truth
of the doctrine they preached with their blood.  Paul’s bonds were famous at court and country also: ‘Many of
the brethren,...waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the
word without fear,’ Php.
1:14.  Angels might have sounded the trumpet
of the gospel with a shriller voice; but men alone have pitchers to break—I
mean frail bodies—by suffering for the gospel, whereby the glory of its truths,
like the lamp in Gideon’s soldier’s hand, shines forth upon the eyes of their
greater enemies, to the confusion of their faces and amaze­ment of their
hearts.

 

 

 

USE OR
APPLICATION.

 

[Exhortation to the
people to hearken

to God’s
ambassadors.]

 

           Are
ministers ambassadors?  This shows
the gos­pel ministry to be an office peculiar to some, not a work common to
all.  An ambassador we know is
someone who hath his commission and credential let­ters from his prince to show
for his employment.  It is not a
man's skill in state affairs that makes him an ambassador, nor ability in the
law that makes a man a magistrate, but their call to these places.  Neither do gifts make a man a minister,
but his mission: ‘How can they preach except they be sent?’  The rules which the Spirit of God gives
about the minister’s admission into his function were all to no purpose if it
lay open to every man's own choice to make him a preacher.  ‘Lay hands suddenly on no man,’ I Tim. 5:22; that is,
admit none to the ministry without good proof and trial.  But why should any be set apart for
that which every one may do?  This
leads to an exhortation, 1. To the people.  2. To the minister.

           Exhortation
1. To the people.  Be persuaded
in the fear of God to hearken to the message these am­bassadors bring.  What mean you to do in the busi­ness
they come to treat about?  Will you
be friends with God or not?—take Christ by faith into your embraces, or resolve
to have none of him?  We are but
ambassadors; back again we must go to our Mas­ter that sends us, and give an
account what comes of our negotiation. 
Shall we go and say, Lord, we have been with the men thou sentest us
unto; thy message was delivered by us according to our instructions; we told
them fire and sword, ruin and damnation, would come upon them, if they did not
at thy call repent and turn; we laid both life and death before them, and
spared not to reveal ‘the whole counsel of God’ for their salvation; but they believed
never a word we spake; we were to them as those that mocked, or told what we
had dreamed in the night, and not the words of truth an faithfulness?  O God forbid that this should be the
report which at their return they make to God of their negotiation!  But the more to affect you with the
importance of their message, and your answer to it, consider these things
following:

           (1.)
Consider the wonderful love of God in send­ing you these ambassadors.  Is it not a prince that sends to one of
his own rank, but a God to his rebel creature; against whom he might have sent,
not an ambassador to treat, but an army of judgments to fight and destroy.  It is not against rebels that are en­trenched
in some place of strength, or in the field with a force wherewith you are able
to resist his power; but to his prisoners fettered and manacled —to you that
have your traitorous head on the block. It is not any need he hath of your life
that makes him desire your salvation. 
A prince sometimes saves his rebellious subjects because he needs their
hands to fight for him, and weakens himself by shedding their blood; but God
can ruin you, and not wrong himself. If you perish, it is without his
damage.  The Pharisees are said to
reject ‘the counsel of God against themselves,’ Luke 7:30.  It is you that suffer, not God.

           (2.)
Consider what an intolerable affront is given to the majesty of heaven by
rejecting his offers of grace. 
Princes’ requests are commands. 
Who dare deny a king what he asks? and darest thou, a poor thimbleful of
dust, stout it out against thy Maker? 
It is charged upon no less than a king as an act of insufferable pride,
that ‘he did...evil in the sight of the Lord his God, and humbled not himself
before Jere­miah the prophet speaking from the mouth of the Lord,’ II Chr. 36:12. But what!
must a king come down from his throne, and humble himself before a poor prophet
that was his own subject.  God will
not have him tremble and bow, not to Jeremiah, but to ‘Jere­miah...speaking
from the mouth of the Lord.’  O, consider
this, ye that think it childish and poor-spirited to weep at a sermon, to
humble yourselves at the reproof of a minister!  Your carriage under the word preached declares what your
thoughts of God himself are.  When
Naash slighted David’s ambassa­dors, and abused them, the king took the scorn
upon himself.  ‘I will publish the
name of the Lord,’ saith Moses, ‘ascribe ye greatness unto our God,’ Deut. 32:3.  How should they ascribe greatness to
God while Moses is preaching to them. 
Surely he means by their humble attendance on, and ready obedience to,
the word he delivered in God’s name.

           (3.)
Consider how much the heart of God is engaged in the message his ambassadors
bring.  When a prince sends an
ambassador about a negotiation, the success of which he passionately desires,
and from which he promiseth himself much honour, to be opposed in this must
needs greatly provoke and en­rage him. 
There is nothing that God sets his heart more upon than the exalting of
Christ, and his grace through him, in the salvation of poor sinners.  This therefore is called ‘his counsel,’
Heb. 6:17; ‘the
pleasure of the Lord,’ Isa.
53:10.
Abraham’s servant knew how much his master desired a wife for his son and heir
among his kindred, and therefore presseth Laban with this as the weightiest
argument of all other, ‘If you will deal kindly and truly with my mas­ter, tell
me; and it not, tell me;’ as if he had said, By this the truth of your love to
my master will be seen.  So
here.  If ye will indeed deal
kindly with God, tell his ambassadors so, by your complying with them in that
which he so affectionately desires. 
This the Lord Jesus, when on earth, called ‘his Father's business,’
which must be done, whatever comes on it: ‘Wist ye not that I must be about my
Father’s business?’ Luke
2:49.  He knew he had never come hither except
for the despatch of this, and could not look his Father on the face, when he
went back, except this was finished. Therefore, as this sped, and the work of
the gospel made progress, or met with any stop, in the hearts of men, he
mourned or rejoiced.  When it was
rejected, we find him ‘grieved for the hardness of their hearts,’ Mark 3:5.  When his disciples make report how vic­toriously
the chariot of the gospel ran, ‘in that hour,’ it is said, ‘he rejoiced in
spirit,’ Luke
10:21.  When he was taking his leave of the
world, his thoughts are at work how the gospel should be carried on, and the
salvation of souls suffer no prejudice by his departure; he therefore empowers
his apostles for the work: ‘All power is given me.  Go, preach the gospel to all na­tions.’  Yea, now in heaven he is waiting for
the success of it, and listening how his servants speed in their errand.  Now, what a prodigious sin is it, by
thy impenitency to withstand God in his main design!  Do you indeed deal kindly with our Master, whose embassy we
bring?

           (4.)
Consider the weight and importance of the message these ambassadors bring
unto you.  It is not a slight,
sleeveless errand we come about. 
‘I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil,’ Deut. 30:15.  ‘He that believeth not,...the wrath of
God abideth on him,’ John
3:36.  We come not to en­tice you with the
favour of an earthly prince, who may promise honours to‑day, and lose his own
crown to-morrow.  We bait not our
hook with the world’s treasures or pleasures; but bring you news of a heaven
that shall as surely be yours as you are now on earth, if you accept of the
offer.  We scare you not with the
displeasure of a mortal man, ‘whose breath is in his nostrils;’ not with the
momentary torment of a rack or gibbet, which continue hardly long enough to be
felt; but with the never-dying wrath of the ever-living God.  And what we either promise or threaten
in God's name, he stands ready and resolved to perform. He ‘confirmeth the word
of his servants, and per­formeth the counsel of his messengers;’ Isa. 44:26.

           (5.)
Consider on what terms the gospel and its messengers stay among you.  There is a time when God calls his
ambassadors home, and will treat no longer with a people; and that must needs
be a sad day!  For, when they go,
then judgments and plagues come. 
If the treaty ends, it will not be long before the war begins.  ‘Elisha died,...and the bands of the Mo­abites
invaded the land,’ II
Kings 13:20.  The prophet once gone, then the enemy
comes.  The angel plucks Lot out of
Sodom, and how long had they fair weather after?  The Jews put away the gospel from them by their impenitency,
which made the apostles ‘turn to the Gentiles,’ Acts 13:46.  But did they not thereby call for their
own ruin and destruction, which presently came flying on the Roman eagle’s
wings to them? They judged themselves unworthy of eternal life, and God thought
them unworthy also to have a temporal. 
If once God calls home his ambassadors, it is no easy matter to bring
them back, and get the treaty, now broke up, set on foot again.  God can least endure, upon trial made
of him, to be slighted in that which he makes account is one of the highest ways
he can express his favour to a people. 
Better no ambas­sadors had come, than to come and go re infectâ
—without effecting what they came for. 
They ‘shall know,’ saith God, ‘there hath been a prophet among them,’ Eze. 2:5; that is,
they shall know it to their cost. 
God will be paid for his ministers’ pains.  Now, min­isters die, or are removed from their people, and
glad they are to be so rid of them; but they have not done with them till they
have reckoned with God for them.

 

[Exhortation to
ministers in discharge of their

duty as ambassadors
of the King of kings.]

 

           Exhortation
2. To the ministers of the gospel. You see, brethren, your calling; let
it be your care to comport with this your honourable employment.  Let us set forth a few directions.

           (1.)
Stain not the dignity of your office by any base unworthy practices.  Dignitas in indigno, saith Salvian,
is ornamentum in luto—O lay not the dig­nity of your function in the
dirt by any sordid unholy actions! 
Paul magnified his office; do not you do that which should make others
vilify and debase it.  That which
makes others bad will make you worse. 
‘Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil?’ John 6:70.  You are called angels, but if wicked,
you become devils.  We have read of
‘a prophet’s reward,’ Matt.
10:41,
which a­mounts to more than a private dis­ciple’s; and do you not think there
will be a prophet’s punishment in hell, as well as reward in heaven? One saith,
‘If any were born without original sin, it should be the minister; if any could
live without actual sin it should be the minister; if there were such a thing a
venial sin, it should not be in ministers.  They are more the servants of God than others; should not
they then be more holy than others?’ 
Art thou fit to be an ambassador, who art not a good subject? to be a
minister, that art not a good Christian?

           (2.)
Keep close to thy instructions. 
Ambassadors are bound up by their commission what they are to say; be
sure therefore to take thy errand right, before thou ascendest the pulpit to
deliver it.  ‘I have re­ceived of
the Lord that which also I delivered unto you,’ I Cor. 11:23.  God bids the prophet, Eze. 3:17, ‘Hear the
word at my mouth, and give them warning from me.’   It must be from him, or it is not right.  O take heed thou dost not set the royal
stamp upon thy own base metal! 
Come not to the people with, ‘Thus saith the Lord,’ when it is the
divination of thy own brain.  No
such loud lie as that which is told in the pulpit.  And, as thou must not speak what he never gave thee in
commission, so not conceal what thou hast in command to deliver.  It is as dangerous to blot out, as put
in, anything to our message.  Job
com­forted himself with this, that he had ‘not concealed the words of the Holy
One,’ Job
6:10.  And Paul, from this, washeth his hands
of the blood of souls, ‘I am pure from the blood of all men.  For I have not shun­ned to declare unto
you all the counsel of God,’ Acts 20:26, 27.  Pray, observe, he doth not say he hath de­clared all
the counsel of God.  No; who can,
but God himself?  The same apostle saith,
‘We prophesy but in part.’ There is a terra incognita—unknown land, in
the Scriptures, mysteries that yet were never fully discovered.  We cannot declare all that know not
all. But he saith, ‘He shunned not to declare all.’  When he met a truth, he did not step back to shun it; as
when we see a man in the street with whom we have no mind to speak, we step
into some house or shop till he be past. 
The holy apostle was not afraid to speak what he knew to be the mind of
God; as he had it from God, so should they from him.  He did not balk in his preaching what was profitable for
them to know.  Caleb, one of the
spies sent to Canaan, could not give them a full account of every particular
place in the land, but he made the best observation he could, and then brings
Moses word again—‘As it was,’ saith he, ‘in mine heart,’ Joshua 14:7; while
others basely concealed what they knew, because they had no mind to the
journey; and this gained him the testi­mony from God’s own mouth to be a man
that ‘followed him fully,’ Num. 14:23. 
So he that doth his utmost to search the Scriptures, and then brings
word to the people as it is in his heart, preaching what he hath learned from
it, without garbling his conscience and detaining what he knows for fear or
favour, this is the man that fulfills his ministry, and shall have the euge—well
done! of a faithful servant.

           (3.)
Think it not enough that thou deliverest thy message from God, but show a
zeal for thy Master, whose cause thou negotiatest.  Should an ambassador, after audience
had, and his errand coldly done, then give himself up to the pleasures of the
court where he is resident, and not much mind or care what answer he hath, nor
how his master’s business speeds, surely he could not say he had done the duty
of a faithful ambassador.  No; his
head and heart must be both at work how he may put life into the business and
bring it soonest to the desired issue. 
Abraham’s servant would neither eat nor drink till he saw which way his
motion would work, and how they would deal with his master.  Thus should ministers let those they
are sent to see they are in earnest—that their hearts are deeply engaged in
their embassy.  When their people show
their respect to their persons, though they are thankfully to resent this
civility, yet they are not to let them know this is not it they come for, or
can be content with; but that they would deal kindly with their Master, whose
message they bring, and send them back to him with the joyful news of their
repen­tance and acceptation of Christ. 
They should pas­sionately endeavour their salvation; one while trying to
dissolve them with the soft entreaties of love; another while beleaguering them
with threatenings, that if they will to hell, they may carry this witness with
them, that their destruction is of themselves, and comes not on them for want
of your care and compas­sion to their souls.  It is not enough you are orthodox preachers, and deliver
truth; it is zeal God calls for at your hands.  He so strongly himself desires the salva­tion of poor
sinners, that he disdains you, whom he sends to impart it to them, should
coldly deliver it, without showing your good-will to the thing. Christ, when he
sends his servants to invite guests to his gospel-supper, bids them ‘compel
them to come in,’ Luke
14:23.  But how?  Surely not as the Spaniards did the Indians, who drove them
to be baptized as we drive cattle with staves and stones.  We are not to pelt them in with outward
violence and cruelty practised upon their bodies, but [by] a spiritual force of
argument subduing their hearts in our powerful preaching. Percutit ut faciat
voluntarios, non salvet invitos—when God smites the consciences of men with
the terrors of his threatenings, it is to make them willing, not to save them
against their wills (Bern.).

           (4.)
Let not any person or thing in the world bribe or scare thee from a faithful
discharge of thy trust. 
Ambassadors must not be pensioners to a for­eign prince.  He is unworthy to serve a prince in so
honourable an employment that dares not trust his master to defend and reward
him.  Such a one will not long be
faithful to his trust; nor will he in the ministry, that rests not contented
with God’s promise for his protection or reward.  O how soon will he for fear or favour seek to save his stake
or mend it, though it be by falsifying his trust to God himself? Blessed Paul
was far from this baseness, and hath set a noble pattern to all that shall be
God’s ambassadors to the end of the world: ‘As we were allowed of God to be put
in trust with the gospel, even so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God, which
trieth our hearts. For neither at any time used we flattering words, as ye
know, nor a cloke of covetousness; God is witness,’ I Thes. 2:4, 5.

           (5.)
Be kind to and tenderly careful of thy fellow-subjects.  Were it not strange if an ambassador,
sent from hence to Turkey or Spain, instead of pro­tecting and encouraging the
English merchants there in their trade, should hinder their traffic, and employ
all the power of his place to their prejudice and dam­age?  Surely this prince sent him not to be
an enemy, but a friend and patron, to his good subjects there. The minister, as
God’s ambassador, is to encourage the saints in their heavenly trade, to assist
them by his counsel, and protect them from the scorn that their wicked
neighbours cast upon them for their goodness.  O how sad is it if he shall bend his minis­try against them!
if he shall weaken their hands and strengthen the hands of the ungodly, in or
out of the pulpit, by his preaching or practice!  Better he were, with a millstone tied about his neck, thrown
into the sea, than thus to offend these little ones!  Moses, he smote the Egyptian, but rescued the
Israelite.  What account will they
make to God of their embassy, who, in the very pulpit, smite the Israelite with
their tongues, twitting them for their purity, and stroke the Egyptian—the
profane and wicked, I mean, in their congregations—whereby they bless
themselves as going to heaven, when, God knows, their feet stand in the ways
that will undoubtedly lead them to hell!

 

[An argument for
Paul’s request,
taken

from
his present afflicted state.]

 

           Second Argument. The second argument
with which he stirs them up to his remembrance in their prayers, is taken
from his present afflicted state—‘for which I am an ambassador in
bonds.’  In the Greek ¦< �8LF,4—in a
chain.  When we hear of an
ambas­sador and a chain, we might at first expect it to be a chain of gold
about his neck, and not a chain of iron about his leg or arm; yet it is the
latter here is meant. Paul was now a prisoner at Rome, but in libera
custodia. as is thought by interpreters from this pas­sage—in a chain, not
in chains; it being usual there for a prisoner to be committed to the custody
of some soldier, with whom he might walk abroad, having a chain on his right
arm, which was tied to his keeper’s left arm.  Such a prisoner, it is conceived, this holy man was
now.  Paul the lamb was prisoner to
Nero the lion, and therefore both needed and desired the church’s prayers for
him.  Many are the observables which this short passage
might afford.  I shall lightly
touch them, but not enlarge upon them.

 

[Five observables
touched upon,

from Paul’s being in
bonds.]

 

           First
Observable. Observe the usage which this blessed apostle finds from an
ungrateful world.  A chain is
clapped upon him, as if he were some rogue or thief.  He preacheth liberty to poor sinners, and is deprived of his
own for his pains; he proclaims deliv­erance to the captives, and is used like
a slave for his labour.  One would
wonder what they could find against so holy and innocent a person to accuse him
for, who made it his daily exercise to live without of­fence to God and man;
yet see what an indictment Tertullus prefers against him, Acts 24, as if
there had not been such a pestilent fellow in the whole country as he!  And Paul himself tells us he ‘suffered
trouble, as an evil doer, even unto bonds,’ II Tim. 2:9.  Many grievous things were laid to his charge.  Whence,

           Note. That the best of men may and
oft do suf­fer under the notion of vile and wicked persons.  Let the saints’ enemies alone to black
their persons and cause.  Christ
himself must be ‘numbered among the transgressors,’ and no less than blasphemy
be laid to his charge.  Persecutors
think it not enough to be cruel, but they would be thought just while they are
cruel—‘Ye have condemned and killed the just,’ James 5:6.  Here is a bloody murder committed with all the formalities
of justice.  They condemn first,
and then kill; and truly, murder on the bench is worse in God’s account than
that which is perpetrated by a villain on the highway.  Well, there is a time when Paul’s cause
and the rest of suffering saints’ shall have a fairer hearing than here they
could meet with, and then it will appear with another complexion than when
drawn with their enemies’ black-coal. 
The names of the godly shall have a resurrection as well as their
bodies.  Now they are buried with
their faces down­ward—their innocency and sincerity charged with many false
imputations; but then all shall be set right. And well may the saints stay to
be cleared as long as God himself stays to vindicate his own government of the
world from the hard speeches of ungodly ones.

           Second
Observable. Observe the true cause of Paul’s sufferings.  It was his zeal for God and his
truth—‘for which I am in bonds:’ that is, for the gospel which I profess and
preach.  As that martyr who, being
asked how he came into prison, showed his Bible, and said, ‘This brought me
hither.’  Perse­cutors may pretend
what they will, but it their religion and piety that their spite is at.  Paul was an honest man, in the opinion
of his countrymen, so long as he was of their opinion, went their way, and did
as they did; but when he declared himself to be a Christian, and preached his
gospel up, then they cried him down as fast—then his old friends turned new
enemies, and all their fists were about his ears.  The wicked are but the devil's slaves, and must do as he
will have them. Now, it is truth and godliness that pull down his king­dom.  When, therefore, these appear in the
saints’ lives, then he calls forth the wicked world, as a prince would do his
subjects into the field, to fight for him; so that it is impossible to get to
heaven without blows. ‘He that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer
persecution:’ {II
Tim. 3:12}
that is, one way or other; and none more than the preacher.  He puts his hand into the wasp's nest,
and therefore must expect to be stung; he treads on the serpent’s head, and it
were strange if he should not turn again to bite him.  But let not this trouble you.  Fear not what you can suffer, only be careful for what you
{do} suffer. Christ’s cross is made of sweet wood.  There are comforts pec­uliar to those that suffer for
righteousness.  When Sabina, a
Christian martyr, fell in travail in the pris­on, and was heard to cry and make
a dolor in those her child-bearing throes, some asked her how she could endure
the torments which her persecutors prepared for her, if she shrank at
those?  ‘O,’ saith she, ‘now I
suffer for sin, then I shall suffer for Christ.’

           Third
Observable. Observe how close Paul sticks to the truth.  He will not part with it, though
it brings him to trouble. He had rather the persecutor should imprison him for
preaching the gospel, than he im­prison it by a cowardly silence.  He hath cast up his accounts, and is
resolved to stand to his profession whatever it may cost him.  The truth is, that religion is
not worth embracing that cannot bear one’s charges in suffering for it; and
none but the Christian’s is able to do this.  Neither is he worth the name of a Chris­tian that dares not
take Christ’s bill of exchange, to receive in heaven what he is sent out in
suffering for his sake on earth. 
And yet, alas! how hard is it to get faith enough to do this!  It is easier to bow at the name, than
to stoop to the cross of Jesus. 
Many like religion for a summer-house, when all is fair and warm abroad
in the world; but, when winter comes, doors are shut up, and nobody to be seen
in or about it.

           Fourth
Observable. Observe the publication Paul makes of his sufferings to the
church.  He, being now a
prisoner, sends his despatches to this and other churches, to let them know his
condition.  From whence,

           Note. That sufferings for the gospel
are no mat­ter of shame.  Paul
doth not blush to tell it is for the gospel he is ‘in bonds.’  The shame belonged to them that clapped
on the chain, not to him that wore it. 
The thief, the murderer, may justly blush to tell wherefore they suffer,
not the Christian for well-doing. 
‘If any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; but let him
glorify God on this behalf,’ I Peter 4:16. Christ himself counted it no dishonour to
have the print of his wounds seen after his resurrec­tion.  Babylas, a Christian martyr, would have
his chains buried with him.  The
apostles ‘rejoiced that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name,’
Acts 5:41.  And if it be no shame to suffer for the
gospel, then surely it is none to profess it, and live up to its holy
rules.  Shall the wicked ‘glory in
their shame,’ and thou be ashamed of thy glory?  Shall they do the devil’s work at noonday light, and thou
afraid to be seen with the good? 
Yet Salvian tells us, in his days—so wicked they were, and such a scorn
was cast upon holiness—that many carried Christ’s col­ours in their pocket, and
concealed their piety, ne viles hab­erentur—lest they should be counted
vile and base.

           Fifth
Observable. Observe the end why he makes known his sufferings.

           1.
That they may know the true cause wherefore he suffered.  Paul’s enemies laid heavy things to his
charge, and these might haply fly as far as Ephesus. When the saints’ are in a
suffering condition, Satan is very industrious to defame them, and misrepresent
the cause of their troubles to the world, as if it were for no good.  Now, though Paul regarded little what
the wicked world said of him, yet he desired to stand right in the thoughts of
the churches, and therefore acquaints them with the cause of his imprisonment.

           2.
To strengthen their faith and comfort their hearts.  No doubt but Paul’s chain entered their
souls, and his suffering was their sorrow.  This he knew, and therefore sends them word by Tychicus—the
bearer of this epistle—how it fared with him in his bonds, that they might not
spend too many tears for him who had a heart so merry and cheerful in his
sufferings: ‘That ye might know our affairs, and that he comfort your hearts,’ Eph. 6:22.  Thus have we seen sometimes a
tender-hearted, father on his sick-bed, not so much troubled with his own
pains, or thoughts of his ap­proaching death, as to see his children take them
so much to heart; and therefore, forgetting his own mis­eries, address himself
with a smiling countenance to comfort them.  O it is an excellent sight to behold the saints that are at
liberty mourning over their afflicted brethren, and those that are the
sufferers become comforters to them that are at liberty!  Never doth re­ligion appear more
glorious than when they commend it who are suffering for it. And no way can
they com­mend it higher than by a holy humble cheerfulness of spirit in their
sufferings.  The comfortable which
the martyrs in queen Mary’s days sent out of prison, did wonderfully strengthen
their brethren throughout the kingdom, and fit them for the prison.  Sufferers preach with great advantage
above others.  They do not speak by
hearsay, but what they experiment {verified} in themselves.

           3.
To engage their prayers for him. 
Suffering saints have ever been very covetous of prayers.  Paul acts all the churches at work for
him.  ‘Pray, pray, pray,’ was the
usual close to Mr. Bradford’s letters out of prison.  And great reason for it; for a suffering condition is full
of temptations.  When man plays the
persecutor, the devil forgets not to be a tempter.  He that followed Christ into the wilderness will ever find a
way to get to his saints in the prison. 
Sometimes he will try whether he can soften them for impressions of
fear, or make them pity themselves; and he shall not want them that will lend
their tears to melt their courage and weaken their resolu­tion—may be wife and
children, or friends and neighbours, who wish them well, but are abused by
Satan to lay a snare be­fore them, while they express their affection to
them. No doubt those good people meant well to Paul, who, with tears and
passionate entreaties, endeavoured to keep him from Jerusalem—where it was
foretold he should come into trouble—but Satan had a design against Paul
therein, who hoped they might not only break his heart, but weaken his courage,
with their tears.  When he cannot
make a coward of the saint, to run from the cross; then he will try to sour and
swell his spirit with some secret anger against those that laid it on.  O it is no easy matter to receive evil,
and wish none to him from whose hands we have it.  To reserve love for him that shows wrath and hatred to us is
a glorious but a difficult work. 
If he cannot leaven him with wrath against his persecutor, then he will
try to blow him up with a high conceit of himself, who dares suffer for Christ,
while others shrink in their heads, and seek to keep themselves safe within
their own shell.  O this pride is a
salamander, that can live in the fire of suffering!  If any one saint needs the humility of many saints, it is he
that is called to suffer.  To glory
in his sufferings for Christ becomes him well, II Cor. 12:9; Gal. 6:14; but to
glory in himself for them is hateful and odious.  Needs not he a quick eye, and a steady hand, that is to
drive his chariot on the brow of so dangerous a precipice?

           In
a word, a suffering condition is full of temp­tations, so the saint’s strength
to carry him safely through them is not in his own keeping.  God must help, or the stoutest
champion’s spirit will soon quail. ‘In all things I am instructed both to be
full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need,’ Php. 4:12. This was a
hard lesson indeed to learn .  Who
was his master?  See, ‘I can do all
things through Christ that strengtheneth me,’ ver. 13.  Now, as the saints’ strength to suffer is not in themselves,
but Christ, so prayer is the best means to fetch it in for their help; for by
it they confess their own weakness, and so God is secured from having a
co-rival in the praise.  Which Paul
is here free to do, and more than so; for, as he confesseth he can do nothing
without Christ’s strength to enable and embolden him, so he dares not rely on
his own solitary single prayers for the obtain­ing it, but calls in the
auxiliary forces of his fellow-saints to besiege heaven for him; that, while he
is in the valley suffering for the gospel, they might be lifting up their hands
and hearts in the mount of prayer for him.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The End Of

“The Christian in
Complete Armour”

[1]Prog: — to prowl about, as
in search of food or plunder; forage. 
From Webster’s.

[2]The meaning of the
word skill in this case is probably more in line with either the
obsolete meanings of knowl­edge, understanding, or judgment; or, the archaic
mean­ings of to matter, avail, or make a difference; with the former being the
most likely. — SDB

[3]14And as Moses lifted
up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up: 15that
who­soever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life.

— John 3

 

See also the
following passage from Numbers:

 

4And they journeyed
from mount Hor by the way of the Red sea, to compass the land of Edom: and the
soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way.  5And the people spake
against God, and against Moses, Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to
die in the wilderness? for there is no bread, neither is there any
water; and our soul loatheth this light bread.  6And the Lord
sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people; and much people
of Israel died.  7Therefore
the people came to Moses, and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against
the Lord, and against thee; pray
unto the Lord, that he take away
the serpents from us.  And Moses
prayed for the people.  8And
the Lord said unto Moses, Make
thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole: and it shall come to pass, that
every one that is bitten, when he looketh upon it, shall live.  9And Moses made a serpent of
brass, and put it upon a pole, and it came to pass, that if a serpent had
bitten any man, when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived.

— Numbers 21