Rating
8

Qualities Applicable Engaging Concrete Examples

Accountable Leaders
Inspire a Culture Where Everyone Steps Up, Takes Ownership, and Delivers Results
Vince Molinaro | Wiley © 2020
New York Times best-selling author Vince Molinaro shares research-backed strategies for creating an accountable leadership culture. He contends that many companies will shut down by 2030 if they don't adapt to their rapidly changing contexts and prioritize accountability. His advice: Do not tolerate mediocrity and don't settle for leaders who are unable or unwilling to meet your leadership standards. Molinaro says accountability is the only path organizations can take to avoid future disaster. His advice is relevant to leaders at all levels ­ each person who commits to being accountable inspires others to do the same.
Take-Aways
· To endure, companies must adapt to change. · Organizations must make sure their leaders are accountable. · Mediocrity is the enemy of accountability. · High-performing teams value accountability and they demonstrate clarity and commitment. · Accountable leaders share ten essential traits for building a strong leadership culture. · Leaders should prioritize building community above self-interest. · You can't build strong leadership on accountability alone. · Establish what you expect from your company's leaders by taking five steps. · Don't tolerate mediocre or abusive leaders.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-11 21:46:47 CET

www.getabstract.com

Summary
To endure, companies must adapt to change.
Accountable leaders must understand that the world is changing rapidly. A KPMG survey reports that nearly three-quarters of the world's CEOs believe the next few years will have more of an impact on their industries than all the changes that have occurred since 1970.
The majority of CEOs worry that new companies will disrupt their industries' business models, but McKinsey research shows that only about a quarter of those senior executives who tried to transform their business models and keep pace with industry changes actually see their change management efforts as successful. According to Innosight, half the companies on the S&P are likely to fade away by 2030 if they fail to adapt to rapid change in their industries.
You can't wait for your bosses or company to create necessary change. As a leader, you must be accountable for your personal development and adaptation to change, and you must inspire people in your department or teams to do the same.
"Leaders must understand their emerging context."
To ensure their companies' growth and long-term success, today's leaders must invest time in coming to understand the following forces driving change:
· New technologies ­ Understand the transformative technologies affecting your industry, such as artificial intelligence and digital technology.
· "Geopolitical instability" ­ Anticipate and try to mitigate the risks that global events create for your business.
· "Revolutionizing work" ­ As robots replace human workers, accountable leaders must demonstrate their commitment to their employees by investing in their development and wellbeing.
· Diversity, inclusion and equity ­ Accountable leaders take these values seriously and apply them to build engaged, innovative teams.
· "Re-purposing corporations" ­ To galvanize employees, leaders must craft new statements of purpose and present fresh leadership commitments.
Organizations must make sure their leaders are accountable.
The primary leadership challenge organizations face today is accountability. Leaders who fail to be accountable can bring disaster to their organizations. For example, former Uber CEO Travis Kalanick failed to create a workplace environment of accountability. Instead, a culture of toxic masculinity thrived under his leadership.Many of Uber's core values came to center around aggression.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-11 21:46:47 CET

www.getabstract.com 2 of 7

"We do not have to settle for a weak, poor or even dysfunctional culture. We can...set an inspiring tone."
The lack of accountability at Uber brought dire consequences. When its human resources team failed to act on reports of sexual harassment, a blog post publicly condemning the company went viral.Kalanick didn't conduct his personal life in a manner consistent with positive values, and video footage of him losing patience with an Uber driver surfaced, further damaging his and his company's reputation. In 2017, he had to resign from his own company, which also fired 20 employees in response to more than 200 complaints about problems ranging from bullying to discrimination. Several other leaders left, including the head of finance, after the company announced a loss of more than $700 million in the first quarter of 2017. Uber's CEO, senior executives, board, managers and HR team failed to take accountability.
Mediocrity is the enemy of accountability.
When leaders fail to perform at their highest level or to demand a high standard of performance, accountability plummets. Mediocre leaders often create workplaces full of conflict and drama. In that environment, employees can't focus, and they spend their time complaining about management.
"When an organization keeps mediocre leaders around and does nothing to help them, it signals to everyone that the company will tolerate mediocrity, which is a dangerous thing."
Mediocrity engenders more mediocrity, since weak leaders often fail to hire the best talent or to engage their employees, who see them as inept decision-makers and incompetent.Mediocre leaders often exhibit the following negative behaviors:
· They blame others when things go wrong. · They behave selfishly, make self-serving choices and display a sense of entitlement. · They lack civility and are cruel. · They lack initiative, often deferring important decisions to others or simply failing to take
needed actions.
High-performing teams value accountability, and they demonstrate clarity and commitment.
To strengthen their individual accountability and inspire those on their teams to be accountable, leaders should:
· Insist others meet high performance standards and support their efforts. · Tackle difficult issues, make tough decisions and confront challenges. · Effectively communicate corporate strategies to their team members.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-11 21:46:47 CET

www.getabstract.com 3 of 7

· Believe in the company's strategies and display positivity and optimism. · Proactively assess and identify external risks, then address them.
High performing teams value and practice accountability. Accountable teams excel in two critical dimensions: team clarity and team commitment. Teams demonstrate clarity when members have a clear understanding of their operating context. Teams demonstrate commitment when their members feel excited and passionate about their company's future, and take ownership of executing its strategy.
"You can't ask anyone else to be accountable if you are not accountable yourself. You must lead by example."
Committed team members show that they care about each other and support one another's development. They invest time and energy in collaborating and building important stakeholder relationships. They work to strengthen their team.
Accountable leaders share ten essential traits for building a strong leadership culture.
Leaders can develop by cultivating ten characteristics that foster a strong leadership culture:
1. Demonstrate resolve and resiliency in the face of challenging situations. 2. Be clear about your organization's strategic direction. 3. Celebrate your company's successes. 4. Create excitement about your firm's future and inspire others. 5. Support everyone's success and growth ­ and inspire those you lead to do the same. 6. Strengthen your leadership abilities and skills. 7. Prioritize what's best for your company, not your personal agenda or struggles with office
politics. 8. Unite with other leaders to achieve your company's broader goals. 9. Collaborate effectively and tear down silos. 10. Hold your colleagues accountable, have them hold you accountable and call out leaders whose
behavior is unproductive.
Leaders should prioritize building community above self-interest.
Leaders must make sure their employees demonstrate accountability daily. The first step in holding those you lead accountable is conducting a team assessment. Identify the areas in which your team members excel and those in which they could improve their performance and accountability. Be sure they are committed to the team and understand the context in which they operate, their stakeholders' expectations, and the team's strategies and goals.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-11 21:46:47 CET

www.getabstract.com 4 of 7

If you discover your team members lack clarity or commitment, create a clear "leadership contract." Identify how team members can change their behavior to prioritize accountability. Strengthen the team's resilience by helping members work together. Support them in delivering on the team's obligation to create value for the organization and contribute to its goals.
"You can build a community anywhere. It just takes an accountable leader to want it and make it happen."
Strong teams thrive in strong cultures, but building a strong culture is challenging. You and the other leaders in your organization can support one another by building a strong leadership community. That calls for implementing four strategies:
1. Develop a community builder mind-set ­ Embrace "servant leadership," a selfless form of leadership in which you lead to achieve a higher purpose than your personal agenda. Work to create environments of mutual support, alignment, commitment and clarity.
2. Have a "one-company" mind-set ­ Prioritize your organization's best interests. Never prioritize the goals of your primary role over your company's broader goals. Be accountable to the entire firm, not just your division.
3. Build the foundation to do hard work ­ Create trusting relationships, accumulate credibility and break down silos. For example, talk to leaders from other departments when you make decisions that affect your whole organization.
4. Support your peers and colleagues ­ Invest in other peoples' success and know when to be a follower so others can take leadership roles.
You can't build strong leadership on accountability alone.
You can't strengthen your company's commitment to accountability without support from leaders throughout the organization. Your board must prioritize accountability and view it as an essential risk mitigation strategy. Directors can take specific steps, such as making sure that the CEO embraces accountability and recruiting directors who are committed to it. Your CEO can embrace accountability by demonstrating personal commitment, hiring an accountable head of Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO), building a strong executive team and setting clear expectations of leaders.
"One person can create a spark, but you need a whole community of leaders to drive sustained impact, even if that one person is the CEO."
As with your CEO, your senior executives and CHRO should demonstrate individual accountability and inspire others to follow suit. Senior executives should address any gaps in accountability at a leadership level and endeavor to build accountable teams that work together effectively.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-11 21:46:47 CET

www.getabstract.com 5 of 7

Push your organization to set clear expectations of its leaders and strategize ways to measure their successes and compensate them for their wins. The CHRO should give board members metrics on the state of accountability at the company. Don't let your HR team do the tough work of accountability on behalf of leaders who fail at carrying out specific leadership tasks, such as having difficult conversations with underperforming employees. Implement practices that foster accountability among all your leaders.
Establish what you expect from your company's leaders by taking five steps.
Take five steps to create company-specific expectations for leaders. This agenda will create consistency and inspire executives and managers to fulfill their commitment to accountability. The five steps are:
1. Assess your business's emerging context, evaluate future challenges and opportunities, then identify the expectations leaders must meet to navigate a shifting business environment.
2. Create a leadership contract that lists these expectations and explains why they matter in straightforward language. Use a tone that reflects your company's culture. For example, is it inspirational or informal?
3. Get feedback on your leadership contract, perhaps by using focus groups, then finalize it. 4. Make sure your CEO and senior executives embrace your new leadership contract, and
communicate it to all leaders in your company. 5. Make the leadership contract visible, by, for example, using it as a recruitment tool.
Don't tolerate mediocre or abusive leaders.
Guaranteeing accountability at a leadership level requires tackling challenges head on when leaders don't meet expectations. Hire carefully for leadership roles. Don't tolerate abusive or bad behavior from leaders, such as having sexual affairs with subordinates, bullying or putting corporate funds to questionable uses. If you demonstrate zero tolerance for such behavior, leaders will embrace accountability because they know your organization won't stand still for anything less.
"An ineffective leader can improve, a terrible team can become a great one and an uninspiring culture can become amazing. It's all possible, but it isn't easy."
Your organization must decide whether leaders who seem inconsistent, inept, ineffective or otherwise mediocre are capable of improving. If so, support their development. Don't delay in removing mediocre leaders you believe won't develop. Don't push them into leadership positions in other divisions ­ that makes them someone else's problem. Act swiftly to ensure they don't spread mediocrity and disengagement. You may not necessarily want to let all your mediocre leaders go ­ perhaps some would do well in different assignments, non-leadership roles or as individual contributors.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-11 21:46:47 CET

www.getabstract.com 6 of 7

Your company's expectations of its leaders should not remain static; they should evolve as your company evolves.Creating a culture of leadership accountability is an ongoing effort. Leaders must continuously develop new strategies to inspire engagement and ownership.
About the Author
Founder and CEO of Leadership Contract, Inc., Vince Molinaro is also the author of The Leadership Contract and The Leadership Contract Field Guide.
Did you like this summary? Buy book or audiobook http://getab.li/40205
This document is restricted to the personal use of Jason Davis (jason.s.davis@accenture.com) getAbstract maintains complete editorial responsibility for all parts of this review. All rights reserved. No part of this review may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means ­ electronic, photocopying or otherwise ­ without prior written permission of getAbstract AG (Switzerland).
7 of 7
BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-12-11 21:46:47 CET

