section-0_1_25c48780fc5a034_280d

section-0_1_1d28ede68f59ad62_286c

section-0_1_5bd87cec56a25b92_286d

DOVER THRIFT EDITIONS

GENERAL EDITOR: PAUL NECRI

EDITORS OF THIS VOLUME

ANDREW CARROLL 

SUNIL IYENGAR 

HENRY LABALME 

DONALD MACLEAN 

ELIZABETH ELAM ROTH

section-0_1_544acb441b27e5e0_286e

Bibliographical Note

101 Great American Poems is a new anthology, first published by Dover Publications, Inc., in 1998.

section-0_1_3265bc1f36ac3434_286f

Copyright

Copyright © 1998 by Dover Publications, Inc. All rights reserved.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 

101 great American poems : an anthology / edited by American Poetry & Literacy 

Project.

p. cm.—(Dover thrift editions)

Includes bibliographical references (p. ) and index.

9780486110264

1. American poetry. I. American Poetry & Literacy Project. II. Series.

PS586.A14 1998

811.008-dc21 97-51163

CIP

Manufactured in the United States by Courier Corporation 

40158813 

www.doverpublications.com

section-0_1_8fb01724935d6dec_2870

Introduction

“Poetry,” the U.S. Poet Laureate Joseph Brodsky stated in a 1991 speech at the Library of Congress, “must be available to the public in far greater volume than it is.” When Brodsky went on to propose that books of poetry should be brought to the doorstep, like milk, or distributed freely in supermarkets and outside of assembly plants and factories, the audience burst into laughter. “At the very least,” Brodsky maintained, “an anthology of American poetry should be found in the drawer in every room in every motel in the land.” Brodsky himself recognized how preposterous the idea must seem at first: “Even to sympathetic ears, I suppose, all this may sound a bit loony. Well, it isn’t.”

From this speech, the American Poetry & Literacy Project was born. Founded by Brodsky and a small cadre of volunteers in 1993, the APL Project now distributes tens of thousands of free poetry books each year through Amtrak trains, hotels, supermarkets, literacy programs, jury waiting rooms, airports, subways, day-care centers, hospitals, schools, nursing homes, car inspection stations, libraries, and other public places. The APL Project also collaborates with phone book publishers throughout the country to feature poetry in the Yellow Pages. Literally tens of millions of phone directories are now circulating in America with poetry, provided by the APL Project, displayed in their pages.

All of which begs the question: Why? Despite a renewed interest in verse—particularly poetry readings and “slams”—in the past few years, poetry remains for many of us notoriously inaccessible, elitist, and obscure. Even the writer Marianne Moore famously exclaimed in a poem entitled “Poetry”: “I, too, dislike it: there are things that are important beyond all this fiddle.” This book attempts to answer the “Why poetry?” question.

101 Great American Poems is the first anthology compiled by the APL Project, and it was designed to showcase the extraordinary richness and variety of American poetry in all its splendor. From formal odes and dialect verse to love sonnets and works of social protest, these poems cover more than 350 years of American culture and history. They are the poems that have woven themselves into our national fabric, influencing not only other poets, but statesmen and philosophers, artists and musicians, generals and explorers. Their imprint is everywhere. And they are works of such beauty and strength and integrity that they reverberate across the centuries. Longevity is certainly no guarantor of quality, but the fact that these poems have withstood the test of time indicates they have offered—and will continue to offer—profound ideas and observations to generation after generation.

Robert Pinsky, one of Brodsky’s successors as poet laureate, once remarked that, “like a digital computer, verse is a memory system: a means of storing information that can be called up with great speed, compactly.” In this collection alone we are reminded, among many other things, of the costs of hubris in Ernest Lawrence Thayer’s “Casey at the Bat,” the redemptive power of imagination in Wallace Stevens’ “Gubbinal,” the maddening effects of oppression in Paul Laurence Dunbar’s “Sympathy,” and the unbearable nature of loneliness and separation in James Weldon Johnson’s “Sence You Went Away.” Abraham Lincoln offers an almost haunting meditation on lost youth in “My Childhood’s Home I See Again.” And Robert Frost, whom the eminent literary critic Lionel Trilling called “a terrifying poet,” writes on similar themes of death and transition in “After Apple-Picking” and “Nothing Gold Can Stay.” We learn from these musings that we are not alone in our fears about age and the passing of time; others, too, are confronted by these feelings. And through the heartfelt words of those who have reflected deeply on these subjects, we discover that loss is a fundamental aspect of existence and infuses life with value and meaning.

Great poetry is certainly not, however, all gloom and dreariness. Some poems remind their readers in a mere handful of words of nature’s staggering beauty, such as Edna St. Vincent Millay’s luxurious description of dawn—“the sun rose dripping, a bucketful of gold”—in “Recuerdo.” Walt Whitman’s irrepressible energy bursts through every line of his poetry as he bounds tirelessly about the world detailing a thousand stimulating sights and characters; “Why, who makes much of a miracle?”, Whitman asks, “As to me I know nothing else but miracles.” E. E. Cummings, who shared Whitman’s passion for life and language, revolutionized the structure and style of poetry through his wildly inventive use of punctuation, capitalization, and syntax. “we are for each other:then/laugh,leaning back in my arms,” asserts Cummings in one of his many love poems, “for life’s not a paragraph/And death i think is no parenthesis.”

Gertrude Stein was similarly unrestrained by custom and tradition and crafted poems that were like nothing ever written before. “Sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea,” Stein writes in her poem “Susie Asado,” purportedly inspired by a flamenco dancer. “A pot,” the poem continues. “A pot is a beginning of a rare bit of trees. Trees tremble, the old vats are in bobbles, bobbles which shade and shove and render clean, render clean must.” Through these seemingly nonsensical lines, the reader is encouraged to pay greater attention to the sheer sound and rhythm of the words. Poetry, Stein reminds us, need not be burdened with weighty messages to have merit. Archibald MacLeish, the poet (and assistant secretary of state under Franklin D. Roosevelt), agrees with this sentiment in his poem “Ars Poetica,” which closes with the simple declaration: “A poem should not mean/But be.”

Each of us, ultimately, comes to poetry with different expectations and prejudices, and each of us leaves with different insights and impressions. Joseph Brodsky claimed that “within a very short space a good poem covers enormous mental ground, and often, toward its finale, provides one with an epiphany or a revelation.” Adrienne Rich observed that “poetry can break open locked chambers of possibility, restore numbed zones to feeling, [and] recharge desire.” Carl Sandburg believed poetry to be “the establishment of a metaphorical link between white butterfly wings and the scraps of torn-up love letters.” And even Marianne Moore conceded later in her poem on poetry that it wasn’t all bad: “Reading it, however, with a perfect contempt for it, one discovers in it after all, a place for the genuine.” From these disparate views emerges the common perception that poetry is about truth. And passion. And wisdom and love and wonder and creativity. In short—everything that makes life worthwhile.

Joseph Brodsky never saw the final version of 101 Great American Poems; he died of a heart attack at the age of 55, two years before the book was completed. Nevertheless, his belief that poetry is not a luxury for the privileged few, but a necessity for us all is very much a part of what this anthology has become. And this belief will be sustained every time another reader discovers this collection and, ideally, is inspired to share it with others and seek out other works by other poets. “Books find their readers,” Brodsky concluded in his famous Library of Congress speech, “and if not, well let them lie around, absorb dust, rot, and disintegrate. There is always going to be a child who will fish a book out of the garbage heap. I was such a child, for what it’s worth; so, perhaps, were some of you.” Books wear out. Great poets pass away. But the spirit of poetry is indestructible.

Andrew Carroll 

Executive Director 

The American Poetry 

and Literacy Project

section-0_1_d2227a6924fbd38d_2871

Acknowledgments

W. H. Auden: “The Unknown Citizen” from W H. Auden: Collected Poems by W. H. Auden, edited by Edward Mendelson. Copyright © 1940 and renewed © 1968 by W. H. Auden. Reprinted by permission of Random House, Inc.

Countee Cullen: “For Paul Laurence Dunbar” and “Incident” from Color by Countee Cullen. Copyright © 1925 by Harper & Bros.; renewed © 1954 by Ida Cullen. Copyrights held by the Amistad Research Center, administered by Thompson and Thompson, New York, N.Y.

E. E. Cummings: “since feeling is first” from Complete Poems: 1904—1962 by E. E. Cummings, Edited by George J. Firmage. Copyright 1923, 1925, 1926, 1931, 1935, 1938, 1939, 1940, 1944, 1945, 1946, 1947, 1948, 1949, 1950, 1951, 1952, 1953, 1954, (c) 1955, 1956, 1957, 1958, 1959, 1960, 1961, 1962, 1963, 1966, 1967, 1968, 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976, 1977, 1978, 1979, 1980, 1981, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by the Trustees for the E. E. Cummings Trust. Copyright © 1973, 1976, 1978, 1979, 1981, 1983, 1985, 1991 by George James Firmage. Reprinted by permission of Liveright Publishing Corporation.

Robert Frost: “Acquainted with the Night,” “Birches,” “Design,” “Fire and Ice,” “Nothing Gold Can Stay,” and “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening” from The Poetry of Robert Frost, edited by Edward Connery Lathem, Copyright 1936, © 1951, 1956 by Robert Frost, © 1964 by Lesley Frost Ballantine, Copyright 1923, 1928, © 1969 by Henry Holt and Company, Inc. Reprinted by permission of Henry Holt and Company, Inc.

Langston Hughes: “Dream Deferred” (Harlem), “I, Too,” “Little Old Letter,” “Mother to Son,” “The Negro Speaks of Rivers,” and “Still Here” from Collected Poems by Langston Hughes. Copyright © 1994 by the Estate of Langston Hughes. Reprinted by permission of Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.

Robinson Jeffers: “Shine, Perishing Republic” from Selected Poems by Robinson Jeffers. Copyright © 1925 and renewed 1953 by Robinson Jeffers. Reprinted by permission of Random House, Inc.; “Shine, Republic” from Selected Poems by Robinson Jeffers. Copyright © 1934 and renewed 1962 by Donnan Jeffers and Garth Jeffers. Reprinted by permission of Random House, Inc.

Abraham Lincoln: “My Childhood’s Home I See Again” from The Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln, Vol. III, Roy P. Basler (ed.), Rutgers University Press (New Brunswick, NJ; 1953).

Archibald MacLeish: “Ars Poetica” and “End of the World,” from Collected Poems 1917—1982 by Archibald MacLeish. Copyright © 1985 by The Estate of Archibald MacLeish. Reprinted by permission of Houghton Mifflin Company. All rights reserved.

Claude McKay: “After the Winter,” “If We Must Die,” and “The Tropics in New York” from Selected Poems of Claude McKay, Twayne Pubishers, Inc.

Edna St. Vincent Millay: “First Fig” and “Recuerdo” by Edna St. Vincent Millay. From Collected Poems, HarperCollins. Copyright 1922, 1950 by Edna St. Vincent Millay and Norma Millay Ellis. Reprinted by permission of Elizabeth Barnett, literary executor.

Marianne Moore: “Poetry” reprinted with the permission of Simon & Schuster from The Collected Poems of Marianne Moore. Copyright 1935 by Marianne Moore; copyright renewed © 1963 by Marianne Moore and T. S. Eliot.

Ezra Pound: “In a Station of the Metro” and “The River-Merchant’s Wife: A Letter” by Ezra Pound, from Personae. Copyright © 1926 by Ezra Pound. Reprinted by permission of New Directions Publishing Corp.

Wallace Stevens: “The Emperor of Ice-Cream” and “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird” from Collected Poems by Wallace Stevens. Copyright 1923 and renewed 1951 by Wallace Stevens. Reprinted by permission of Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.; “Gubbinal” from Complete Poems by Wallace Stevens. Copyright 1954 by Wallace Stevens. Reprinted by permission of Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.; “The Reader” is from Collected Poems by Wallace Stevens. Copyright 1936 by Wallace Stevens and renewed 1964 by Holly Stevens. Reprinted by permission of Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.

Jean Toomer: “Her Lips Are Copper Wire,” “Reapers” from Cane by Jean Toomer. Copyright 1923 by Boni & Liveright, renewed 1951 by Jean Toomer. Reprinted by permission of Liveright Publishing Corporation.

William Carlos Williams: “The Great Figure,” “The Red Wheelbarrow,” “This Is Just to Say,” and “The Widow’s Lament in Springtime” by William Carlos Williams, from Collected Poems: 1909—1939, Vol. 1. Copyright © 1938 by New Directions Publishing Corp. Reprinted by permission of New Directions Publishing Corp.

section-0_1_9b5a20c69afcf8dc_2872

Table of Contents

Title Page

DOVER THRIFT EDITIONS

Copyright Page

Introduction

Acknowledgments

ANNE BRADSTREET (1612?—1672)

PHILLIS WHEATLEY (1753?—1784)

WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT (1794-1878)

RALPH WALDO EMERSON (1803—1882)

HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW (1807-1882)

EDGAR ALLAN POE (1809—1849)

ABRAHAM LINCOLN (1809—1865)

OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES, SR. (1809—1894)

HERMAN MELVILLE (1819—1891)

WALT WHITMAN (1819-1892)

FRANCES E. W. HARPER (1825—1911) A prolific author in almost every literary genre, Frances Harper used her writing as a vehicle for advocating racial equality (she was herself the daughter of freed slaves) and women’s rights.

EMILY DICKINSON (1830—1886)

EMMA LAZARUS (1849—1887)

ELLA WHEELER WILCOX (1850—1919)

ERNEST LAWRENCE THAYER (1863-1940)

EDGAR LEE MASTERS (1868-1950)

EDWIN ARLINGTON ROBINSON (1869—1935)

STEPHEN CRANE (1871-1900)

JAMES WELDON JOHNSON (1871—1938)

PAUL LAURENCE DUNBAR (1872—1906)

GERTRUDE STEIN (1874—1946)

ROBERT FROST (1874—1963)

CARL SANDBURG (1878—1967)

VACHEL LINDSAY (1879—1931)

WALLACE STEVENS (1879—1955)

WILLIAM CARLOS WILLIAMS (1883—1963)

SARA TEASDALE (1884—1933) The austere quatrains of “Peace” are typical of much of Teasdale’s short, personal, and lyrical verse. Teasdale won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry in 1918.

EZRA POUND (1885—1972)

ROBINSON JEFFERS (1887—1962)

MARIANNE MOORE (1887-1972)

T. S. ELIOT (1888-1965)

CLAUDE MCKAY (1890-1948)

EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY (1892-1950)

ARCHIBALD MACLEISH (1892-1982)

E. E. CUMMINGS (1894-1962)

JEAN TOOMER (1894-1967)

LANGSTON HUGHES (1902-1967)

COUNTEE CULLEN (1903-1946)

W. H. AUDEN (1907-1973)

section-0_1_f180b0153bfa40d_2873

ANNE BRADSTREET (1612?—1672)

An early colonist in Massachusetts, Bradstreet was also America’s first published poet, the wife and daughter of governors of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, and a mother of eight.

To My Dear and Loving Husband

If ever two were one, then surely we. 

If ever man were loved by wife, then thee. 

If ever wife was happy in a man, 

Compare with me, ye women, if you can. 

I prize thy love more than whole mines of gold, 

Or all the riches that the East doth hold. 

My love is such that rivers cannot quench, 

Nor ought but love from thee give recompense. 

Thy love is such I can no way repay; 

The heavens reward thee manifold I pray. 

Then while we live, in love let’s so persevere 

That when we live no more, we may live ever.

section-0_1_abcfb70a80660ae3_2874

PHILLIS WHEATLEY (1753?—1784)

Wheatley was a literary phenomenon: a young female slave (later freed) who wrote poetry—styled after Milton and Pope—in an adopted tongue. Her poems brought her fame both in America and abroad.

From To the Right Honourable William, Earl of Dartmouth

Should you, my lord, while you peruse my song, 

Wonder from whence my love of Freedom sprung, 

Whence flow these wishes for the common good, 

By feeling hearts alone best understood, 

I, young in life, by seeming cruel fate 

Was snatch’d from Afric’s fancy’d happy seat: 

What pangs excruciating must molest, 

What sorrows labour in my parent’s breast? 

Steel’d was that soul and by no misery mov’d 

That from a father seiz’d his babe belov’d: 

Such, such my case. And can I then but pray 

Others may never feel tyrannic sway?

section-0_1_e20590670df854fa_2875

WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT (1794-1878)

An editor, translator, and abolitionist, Bryant was so revered in his time that flags in New York were lowered to half-mast at his death. “Thanatopsis” (“Meditation on Death”) was first published when the poet was seventeen.

Thanatopsis

To him who in the love of Nature holds 

Communion with her visible forms, she speaks 

A various language; for his gayer hours 

She has a voice of gladness, and a smile 

And eloquence of beauty, and she glides 

Into his darker musings, with a mild 

And gentle sympathy, that steals away 

Their sharpness, ere he is aware. When thoughts 

Of the last bitter hour come like a blight 

Over thy spirit, and sad images 

Of the stern agony, and shroud, and pall, 

And breathless darkness, and the narrow house, 

Make thee to shudder, and grow sick at heart;—

Go forth, under the open sky, and list 

To Nature’s teachings, while from all around—

Earth and her waters, and the depths of air,—

Comes a still voice—Yet a few days, and thee 

The all-beholding sun shall see no more 

In all his course; nor yet in the cold ground, 

Where thy pale form was laid, with many tears, 

Nor in the embrace of ocean shall exist 

Thy image. Earth, that nourished thee, shall claim 

Thy growth, to be resolved to earth again; 

And, lost each human trace, surrendering up 

Thine individual being, shalt thou go 

To mix forever with the elements, 

To be a brother to the insensible rock 

And to the sluggish clod, which the rude swain 

Turns with his share, and treads upon. The oak 

Shall send his roots abroad, and pierce thy mould. 

Yet not to thy eternal resting place 

Shalt thou retire alone—nor couldst thou wish 

Couch more magnificent. Thou shalt lie down 

With patriarchs of the infant world—with kings, 

The powerful of the earth—the wise, the good, 

Fair forms, and hoary seers of ages past, 

All in one mighty sepulchre.—The hills 

Rock-ribbed and ancient as the sun,—the vales 

Stretching in pensive quietness between; 

The venerable woods—rivers that move 

In majesty, and the complaining brooks 

That make the meadows green; and poured round all, 

Old ocean’s gray and melancholy waste,—

Are but the solemn decorations all 

Of the great tomb of man. The golden sun, 

The planets, all the infinite host of heaven, 

Are shining on the sad abodes of death, 

Through the still lapse of ages. All that tread 

The globe are but a handful to the tribes 

That slumber in its bosom.—Take the wings 

Of morning—and the Barcan desert pierce, 

Or lose thyself in the continuous woods 

Where rolls the Oregan, and hears no sound, 

Save his own dashings—yet—the dead are there, 

And millions in those solitudes, since first 

The flight of years began, have laid them down 

In their last sleep—the dead reign there alone. 

So shalt thou rest—and what if thou shalt fall 

Unheeded by the living—and no friend 

Take note of thy departure? All that breathe 

Will share thy destiny. The gay will laugh 

When thou art gone, the solemn brood of care 

Plod on, and each one as before will chase 

His favorite phantom; yet all these shall leave 

Their mirth and their employments, and shall come, 

And make their bed with thee. As the long train 

Of ages glide away, the sons of men, 

The youth in life’s green spring, and he who goes 

In the full strength of years, matron, and maid, 

And the sweet babe, and the gray-headed man,—

Shall one by one be gathered to thy side, 

By those, who in their turn shall follow them. 

So live, that when thy summons comes to join 

The innumerable caravan, that moves 

To that mysterious realm, where each shall take 

His chamber in the silent halls of death, 

Thou go not, like the quarry-slave at night, 

Scourged to his dungeon, but sustained and soothed 

By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave, 

Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch 

About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.

section-0_1_f1fa758a6c3ec293_2876

RALPH WALDO EMERSON (1803—1882)

The central figure among the Transcendentalist group of philosophers, Emerson considered himself to be first and foremost a poet, albeit one whose best work was done “for the most part in prose.” His essays on nature and art have influenced writers from Whitman and Thoreau to Frost and Stevens.

Concord Hymn

Sung at the completion of 

the Concord Monument, April 19, 1836

By the rude bridge that arched the flood,

Their flag to April’s breeze unfurled,

Here once the embattled farmers stood

And fired the shot heard round the world.

The foe long since in silence slept,

Alike the Conqueror silent sleeps;

And Time the ruined bridge has swept

Down the dark stream which seaward creeps.

On this green bank, by this soft stream,

We set to-day a votive stone,

That memory may their deed redeem,

When like our sires our sons are gone.

Spirit! who made those freemen dare

To die, or leave their children free,

Bid time and nature gently spare

The shaft we raise to them and Thee.

The Snow-storm

Announced by all the trumpets of the sky, 

Arrives the snow, and, driving o’er the fields, 

Seems nowhere to alight: the whited air 

Hides hills and woods, the river, and the heaven, 

And veils the farm-house at the garden’s end. 

The sled and traveller stopped, the courier’s feet 

Delayed, all friends shut out, the housemates sit 

Around the radiant fireplace, enclosed 

In a tumultuous privacy of storm.

Come see the north wind’s masonry.

Out of an unseen quarry evermore 

Furnished with tile, the fierce artificer 

Curves his white bastions with projected roof 

Round every windward stake, or tree, or door. 

Speeding, the myriad-handed, his wild work 

So fanciful, so savage, nought cares he 

For number or proportion. Mockingly, 

On coop or kennel he hangs Parian wreaths; 

A swan-like form invests the hidden thorn; 

Fills up the farmer’s lane from wall to wall, 

Maugre the farmer’s sighs; and at the gate 

A tapering turret overtops the work. 

And when his hours are numbered, and the world 

Is all his own, retiring, as he were not, 

Leaves, when the sun appears, astonished Art 

To mimic in slow structures, stone by stone, 

Built in an age, the mad wind’s night-work, 

The frolic architecture of the snow.

section-0_1_aaa7619578bba994_2877

HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW (1807-1882)

The most popular American poet of the 19th century, Longfellow is best remembered for his long narrative poems, such as “Hiawatha” and “Evangeline.” His fluid meter and his faculty for storytelling have provided an introduction to poetry for generations of readers.

The Arrow and the Song

I shot an arrow into the air, 

It fell to earth, I knew not where; 

For, so swiftly it flew, the sight 

Could not follow it in its flight.

I breathed a song into the air, 

It fell to earth, I knew not where; 

For who has sight so keen and strong, 

That it can follow the flight of song?

Long, long afterward, in an oak 

I found the arrow, still unbroke; 

And the song, from beginning to end, 

I found again in the heart of a friend.

The Builders

All are architects of Fate,

Working in these walls of Time;

Some with massive deeds and great,

Some with ornaments of rhyme.

Nothing useless is, or low;

Each thing in its place is best;

And what seems but idle show

Strengthens and supports the rest.

For the structure that we raise,

Time is with materials filled;

Our todays and yesterdays

Are the blocks with which we build.

Truly shape and fashion these;

Leave no yawning gaps between;

Think not, because no man sees,

Such things will remain unseen.

In the elder days of Art,

Builders wrought with greatest care

Each minute and unseen part;

For the gods see everywhere.

Let us do our work as well,

Both the unseen and the seen;

Make the house where gods may dwell

Beautiful, entire, and clean.

Else our lives are incomplete,

Standing in these walls of Time,

Broken stairways, where the feet

Stumble, as they seek to climb.

Build today, then, strong and sure,

With a firm and ample base;

And ascending and secure

Shall tomorrow find its place.

Thus alone can we attain

To those turrets, where the eye

Sees the world as one vast plain,

And one boundless reach of sky.

The Children’s Hour

Between the dark and the daylight,

When the night is beginning to lower,

Comes a pause in the day’s occupations

That is known as the Children’s Hour.

I hear in the chamber above me

The patter of little feet,

The sound of a door that is opened,

And voices soft and sweet.

From my study I see in the lamplight,

Descending the broad hall stair,

Grave Alice, and laughing Allegra,

And Edith with golden hair.

A whisper, and then a silence:

Yet I know by their merry eyes

They are plotting and planning together

To take me by surprise.

A sudden rush from the stairway,

A sudden raid from the hall!

By three doors left unguarded

They enter my castle wall!

They climb up into my turret

O’er the arms and back of my chair;

If I try to escape, they surround me;

They seem to be everywhere.

They almost devour me with kisses,

Their arms about me entwine,

Till I think of the Bishop of Bingen

In his Mouse-Tower on the Rhine!

Do you think, O blue-eyed banditti,

Because you have scaled the wall,

Such an old moustache as I am

Is not a match for you all!

I have you fast in my fortress,

And will not let you depart,

But put you down into the dungeon

In the round-tower of my heart.

And there will I keep you forever,

Yes, forever and a day,

Till the walls shall crumble to ruin,

And moulder in dust away!

The Day Is Done

The day is done, and the darkness

Falls from the wings of Night,

As a feather is wafted downward

From an eagle in his flight.

I see the lights of the village

Gleam through the rain and the mist,

And a feeling of sadness comes o’er me

That my soul cannot resist:

A feeling of sadness and longing,

That is not akin to pain,

And resembles sorrow only

As the mist resembles the rain.

Come, read to me some poem,

Some simple and heartfelt lay,

That shall soothe this restless feeling,

And banish the thoughts of day.

Not from the grand old masters,

Not from the bards sublime,

Whose distant footsteps echo

Through the corridors of Time.

For, like strains of martial music,

Their mighty thoughts suggest

Life’s endless toil and endeavor;

And to-night I long for rest.

Read from some humbler poet,

Whose songs gushed from his heart,

As showers from the clouds of summer,

Or tears from the eyelids start;

Who, through long days of labor,

And nights devoid of ease,

Still heard in his soul the music

Of wonderful melodies.

Such songs have power to quiet

The restless pulse of care,

And come like the benediction

That follows after prayer.

Then read from the treasured volume

The poem of thy choice,

And lend to the rhyme of the poet

The beauty of thy voice.

And the night shall be filled with music,

And the cares, that infest the day,

Shall fold their tents, like the Arabs,

And as silently steal away.

Paul Revere’s Ride

Listen, my children, and you shall hear 

Of the midnight ride of Paul Revere, 

On the eighteenth of April, in Seventy-five; 

Hardly a man is now alive 

Who remembers that famous day and year.

He said to his friend, “If the British march 

By land or sea from the town to-night, 

Hang a lantern aloft in the belfry arch 

Of the North Church tower as a signal light,—

One, if by land, and two, if by sea; 

And I on the opposite shore will be, 

Ready to ride and spread the alarm 

Through every Middlesex village and farm, 

For the country folk to be up and to arm.”

Then he said, “Good night!” and with muffled oar 

Silently rowed to the Charlestown shore, 

Just as the moon rose over the bay, 

Where swinging wide at her moorings lay 

The Somerset, British man-of-war; 

A phantom ship, with each mast and spar 

Across the moon like a prison bar, 

And a huge black hulk, that was magnified 

By its own reflection in the tide.

Meanwhile, his friend, through alley and street, 

Wanders and watches with eager ears, 

Till in the silence around him he hears 

The muster of men at the barrack door, 

The sound of arms, and the tramp of feet, 

And the measured tread of the grenadiers, 

Marching down to their boats on the shore.

Then he climbed the tower of the Old North Church, 

By the wooden stairs, with stealthy tread, 

To the belfry-chamber overhead, 

And startled the pigeons from their perch 

On the sombre rafters, that round him made 

Masses and moving shapes of shade,—

By the trembling ladder, steep and tall, 

To the highest window in the wall, 

Where he paused to listen and look down 

A moment on the roofs of the town, 

And the moonlight flowering over all.

Beneath, in the churchyard, lay the dead, 

In their night-encampment on the hill, 

Wrapped in silence so deep and still 

That he could hear, like a sentinel’s tread, 

The watchful night-wind, as it went 

Creeping along from tent to tent, 

And seeming to whisper, “All is well!” 

A moment only he feels the spell 

Of the place and the hour, and the secret dread 

Of the lonely belfry and the dead; 

For suddenly all his thoughts are bent 

On a shadowy something far away, 

Where the river widens to meet the bay,—

A line of black that bends and floats 

On the rising tide, like a bridge of boats.

Meanwhile, impatient to mount and ride, 

Booted and spurred, with a heavy stride 

On the opposite shore walked Paul Revere. 

Now he patted his horse’s side, 

Now gazed at the landscape far and near, 

Then, impetuous, stamped the earth, 

And turned and tightened his saddle-girth; 

But mostly he watched with eager search 

The belfry-tower of the Old North Church, 

As it rose above the graves on the hill, 

Lonely and spectral and sombre and still. 

And lo! as he looks, on the belfry’s height 

A glimmer, and then a gleam of light! 

He springs to the saddle, the bridle he turns, 

But lingers and gazes, till full on his sight 

A second lamp in the belfry burns!

A hurry of hoofs in a village street, 

A shape in the moonlight, a bulk in the dark, 

And beneath, from the pebbles, in passing, a spark 

Struck out by a steed flying fearless and fleet: 

That was all! And yet, through the gloom and the light, 

The fate of a nation was riding that night; 

And the spark struck out by that steed, in his flight, 

Kindled the land into flame with its heat.

He has left the village and mounted the steep, 

And beneath him, tranquil and broad and deep, 

Is the Mystic, meeting the ocean tides; 

And under the alders that skirt its edge, 

Now soft on the sand, now loud on the ledge, 

Is heard the tramp of his steed as he rides.

It was twelve by the village clock, 

When he crossed the bridge into Medford town. 

He heard the crowing of the cock, 

And the barking of the farmer’s dog, 

And felt the damp of the river fog, 

That rises after the sun goes down.

It was one by the village clock, 

When he galloped into Lexington. 

He saw the gilded weathercock 

Swim in the moonlight as he passed, 

And the meeting-house windows, blank and bare, 

Gaze at him with a spectral glare, 

As if they already stood aghast 

At the bloody work they would look upon.

It was two by the village clock, 

When he came to the bridge in Concord town. 

He heard the bleating of the flock, 

And the twitter of the birds among the trees, 

And felt the breath of the morning breeze 

Blowing over the meadows brown. 

And one was safe and asleep in his bed 

Who at the bridge would be first to fall, 

Who that day would be lying dead, 

Pierced by a British musket-ball.

You know the rest. In the books you have read, 

How the British Regulars fired and fled,—

How the farmers gave them ball for ball, 

From behind each fence and farm-yard wall, 

Chasing the red-coats down the lane, 

Then crossing the fields to emerge again 

Under the trees at the turn of the road, 

And only pausing to fire and load.

So through the night rode Paul Revere; 

And so through the night went his cry of alarm 

To every Middlesex village and farm,—

A cry of defiance and not of fear, 

A voice in the darkness, a knock at the door, 

And a word that shall echo forevermore! 

For, borne on the night-wind of the Past, 

Through all our history, to the last, 

In the hour of darkness and peril and need, 

The people will waken and listen to hear 

The hurrying hoof-beats of that steed, 

And the midnight message of Paul Revere.

section-0_1_17e34eec3f7236a2_2878

EDGAR ALLAN POE (1809—1849)

One of America’s greatest writers of horror and mystery fiction, Poe was also an innovative poet His highly evocative verse stresses the musical nature of the poetic form.

Alone

From childhood’s hour I have not been 

As others were—I have not seen 

As others saw—I could not bring 

My passions from a common spring. 

From the same source I have not taken 

My sorrow; I could not awaken 

My heart to joy at the same tone; 

And all I lov’d, I lov’d alone. 

Then—in my childhood—in the dawn 

Of a most stormy life—was drawn 

From ev’ry depth of good and ill 

The mystery which binds me still:

From the torrent, or the fountain, 

From the red cliff of the mountain, 

From the sun that ’round me roll’d 

In its autumn tint of gold—

From the lightning in the sky 

As it pass’d me flying by—

From the thunder and the storm, 

And the cloud that took the form 

(When the rest of Heaven was blue) 

Of a demon in my view.

Annabel Lee

It was many and many a year ago,

In a kingdom by the sea,

That a maiden there lived whom you may know

By the name of ANNABEL LEE;

And this maiden she lived with no other thought

Than to love and be loved by me.

I was a child and she was a child,

In this kingdom by the sea:

But we loved with a love that was more than love—

I and my ANNABEL LEE—

With a love that the winged seraphs of Heaven

Coveted her and me.

And this was the reason that, long ago,

In this kingdom by the sea,

A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling

My beautiful ANNABEL LEE;

So that her high-born kinsmen came

And bore her away from me,

To shut her up in a sepulchre

In this kingdom by the sea.

The angels, not half so happy in heaven,

Went envying her and me—

Yes!—that was the reason (as all men know,

In this kingdom by the sea)

That the wind came out of the cloud by night,

Chilling and killing my ANNABEL LEE.

But our love it was stronger by far than the love

Of those who were older than we—

Of many far wiser than we—

And neither the angels in heaven above

Nor the demons down under the sea,

Can ever dissever my soul from the soul

Of the beautiful ANNABEL LEE:

For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams

Of the beautiful ANNABEL LEE;

And the stars never rise, but I feel the bright eyes

Of the beautiful ANNABEL LEE;

And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side Of my darling—my darling—my life and my bride,

In her sepulchre there by the sea,

In her tomb by the sounding sea.

The Conqueror Worm

Lo! ’tis a gala night

Within the lonesome latter years!

An angel throng, bewinged, bedight

In veils, and drowned in tears,

Sit in a theatre, to see

A play of hopes and fears,

While the orchestra breathes fitfully

The music of the spheres.

Mimes, in the form of God on high,

Mutter and mumble low,

And hither and thither fly-

Mere puppets they, who come and go

At bidding of vast formless things

That shift the scenery to and fro,

Flapping from out their Condor wings

Invisible Woe!

That motley drama—oh, be sure

It shall not be forgot!

With its Phantom chased for evermore,

By a crowd that seize it not,

Through a circle that ever returneth in

To the self-same spot,

And much of Madness, and more of Sin,

And Horror the soul of the plot.

But see, amid the mimic rout

A crawling shape intrude!

A blood-red thing that writhes from out

The scenic solitude!

It writhes!—it writhes!—with mortal pangs

The mimes become its food,

And the angels sob at vermin fangs

In human gore imbued.

Out—out are the lights—out all!

And, over each quivering form,

The curtain, a funeral pall,

Comes down with the rush of a storm,

And the angels, all pallid and wan,

Uprising, unveiling, affirm

That the play is the tragedy “Man,”

And its hero the Conqueror Worm.

The Raven

Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary, 

Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore—

While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping, 

As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door. 

“’Tis some visitor,” I muttered, “tapping at my chamber door- 

Only this, and nothing more.”

Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December; 

And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor. 

Eagerly I wished the morrow;—vainly I had sought to borrow 

From my books surcease of sorrow—sorrow for the lost Lenore—

For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore—

Nameless here for evermore.

And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain 

Thrilled me—filled me with the fantastic terrors never felt before; 

So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating 

“ ’Tis some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door— 

Some late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door;—

This it is and nothing more.”

Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer, 

“Sir,” said I, “or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore; 

But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping, 

And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door, 

That I scarce was sure I heard you”—here I opened wide the door;—

Darkness there, and nothing more.

Deep into the darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing, 

Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before; 

But the silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token, 

And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, “Lenore!” 

This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word “Lenore!” 

Merely this, and nothing more.

Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning, 

Soon again I heard a tapping, somewhat louder than before. 

“Surely,” said I, “surely, that is something at my window lattice; 

Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore; 

Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore;—

’Tis the wind, and nothing more.”

Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter, 

In there stepped a stately raven, of the saintly days of yore. 

Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he; 

But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door;—

Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door—

Perched, and sat, and nothing more.

Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling, 

By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore, 

“Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou,” I said, “art sure no craven, 

Ghastly, grim, and ancient Raven, wandering from the Nightly shore, 

Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night’s Plutonian shore.” 

Quoth the Raven, “Nevermore.”

Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly, 

Though its answer little meaning-little relevancy bore; 

For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being 

Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door—

Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door, 

With such name as “Nevermore.”

But the Raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only 

That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour. 

Nothing farther then he uttered—not a feather then he fluttered—

Till I scarcely more than muttered, “Other friends have flown before—

On the morrow he will leave me, as my hopes have flown before.” 

Then the bird said, “Nevermore.”

Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken, 

“Doubtless,” said I, “what it utters is its only stock and store, 

Caught from some unhappy master, whom unmerciful Disaster 

Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore—

Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore 

Of ‘Never—nevermore.’”

But the Raven still beguiling all my fancy into smiling, 

Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door; 

Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking 

Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore—

What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore 

Meant in croaking “Nevermore.”

This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing 

To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom’s core; 

This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining 

On the cushion’s velvet lining that the lamp-light gloated o‘er, 

But whose velvet violet lining with the lamp-light gloating o’er, 

She shall press, ah, nevermore!

Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen 

censer 

Swung by Seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor. 

“Wretch,” I cried, “thy God hath lent thee—by these angels he hath 

sent thee 

Respite—respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore; 

Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!” 

Quoth the Raven, “Nevermore.”

“Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil!—prophet still, if bird or devil!—

Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore, 

Desolate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted—

On this home by Horror haunted—tell me truly, I implore—

Is there—is there balm in Gilead?—tell me—tell me, I implore!” 

Quoth the Raven, “Nevermore.”

“Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil!—prophet still, if bird or devil! 

By that Heaven that bends above us—by that God we both adore—

Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn, 

It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore—

Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore.” 

Quoth the Raven, “Nevermore.”

“Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!” I shrieked, 

upstarting—

“Get thee back into the tempest and the Night’s Plutonian shore! 

Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken! 

Leave my loneliness unbroken!—quit the bust above my door! 

Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!” 

Quoth the Raven, “Nevermore.”

And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting 

On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door; 

And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon’s that is dreaming, 

And the lamp-light o’er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor; 

And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor 

Shall be lifted—nevermore!

To Helen

Helen, thy beauty is to me

Like those Nicéan barks of yore,

That gently, o’er a perfumed sea,

The weary, way-worn wanderer bore

To his own native shore.

On desperate seas long wont to roam,

Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face,

Thy Naiad airs have brought me home

To the glory that was Greece,

And the grandeur that was Rome.

Lo! in yon brilliant window-niche

How statue-like I see thee stand,

The agate lamp within thy hand!

Ah, Psyche, from the regions which

Are Holy-Land!

section-0_1_a5f30e7389b29679_2879

ABRAHAM LINCOLN (1809—1865)

Lincoln’s public voice is well known from such essential American documents as “The Gettysburg Address” and “The Emancipation Proclamation.” “My Childhood’s Home I See Again” reveals the president’s private musings on memory and the passage of time.

My Childhood’s Home I See Again

My childhood’s home I see again,

And sadden with the view;

And still, as memory crowds my brain,

There’s pleasure in it too.

O Memory! thou midway world

’Twixt earth and paradise,

Where things decayed and loved ones lost

In dreamy shadows rise,

And, freed from all that’s earthly vile,

Seem hallowed, pure, and bright,

Like scenes in some enchanted isle

All bathed in liquid light.

As dusky mountains please the eye

When twilight chases day;

As bugle-notes that, passing by,

In distance die away;

As leaving some grand waterfall,

We, lingering, list its roar—

So memory will hallow all

We’ve known, but know no more.

Near twenty years have passed away

Since here I bid farewell

To woods and fields, and scenes of play,

And playmates loved so well.

Where many were, but few remain

Of old familiar things;

But seeing them, to mind again

The lost and absent brings.

The friends I left that parting day,

How changed, as time has sped!

Young childhood grown, strong manhood gray,

And half of all are dead.

I hear the loved survivors tell

How nought from death could save,

Till every sound appears a knell,

And every spot a grave.

I range the fields with pensive tread,

And pace the hollow rooms,

And feel (companion of the dead)

I’m living in the tombs.

section-0_1_52fce879ef906bf0_287a

OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES, SR. (1809—1894)

A professor of anatomy, Holmes won renown as an occasional poet and an essayist. “Old Ironsides”—written to protest the dismantling of the frigate Constitution—made the preservation of the ship a national cause.

Old Ironsides

Ay, tear her tattered ensign down!

Long has it waved on high,

And many an eye has danced to see

That banner in the sky;

Beneath it rung the battle shout,

And burst the cannon’s roar;—

The meteor of the ocean air

Shall sweep the clouds no more!

Her deck, once red with heroes’ blood,

Where knelt the vanquished foe,

When winds were hurrying o’er the flood,

And waves were white below,

No more shall feel the victor’s tread,

Or know the conquered knee;—

The harpies of the shore shall pluck

The eagle of the sea!

O better that her shattered hulk

Should sink beneath the wave;

Her thunders shook the mighty deep,

And there should be her grave;

Nail to the mast her holy flag,

Set every threadbare sail,

And give her to the god of storms,—

The lightning and the gale!

section-0_1_bdaab790bb91514b_287b

HERMAN MELVILLE (1819—1891)

Melvillc only began to write poetry seriously in the 1860s, well after the publication of his more famous novels, including Moby-Dick (1851). Neglected for many years, his poems on the Civil War are now thought to rival those of his contemporary, Walt Whitman.

Misgivings

(1860)

When ocean-clouds over inland hills

Sweep storming in late autumn brown,

And horror the sodden valley fills,

And the spire falls crashing in the town,

I muse upon my country’s ills—

The tempest bursting from the waste of Time

On the world’s fairest hope linked with man’s foulest crime.

Nature’s dark side is heeded now—

(Ah! optimist-cheer disheartened flown)—

A child may read the moody brow

Of yon black mountain lone.

With shouts the torrents down the gorges go,

And storms are formed behind the storm we feel:

The hemlock shakes in the rafter, the oak in the driving keel.

section-0_1_bc7f9af06a2927c8_287c

WALT WHITMAN (1819-1892)

Writing in long, loose lines and a self-described “barbaric yawp,” Whitman introduced to American poetry a democratic, all-encompassing vision and a freedom of style that liberated the form from its traditional constraints.

I Hear America Singing

I hear America singing, the varied carols I hear,

Those of mechanics, each one singing his as it should be blithe and strong,

The carpenter singing his as he measures his plank or beam,

The mason singing his as he makes ready for work, or leaves off work,

The boatman singing what belongs to him in his boat, the deck-hand singing on the steamboat deck,

The shoemaker singing as he sits on his bench, the hatter singing as he stands,

The wood-cutter’s song, the ploughboy’s on his way in the morning, or at noon intermission or at sundown,

The delicious singing of the mother, or of the young wife at work, or of the girl sewing or washing,

Each singing what belongs to him or her and to none else,

The day what belongs to the day—at night the party of young fellows, robust, friendly,

Singing with open mouths their strong melodious songs.

I Sit and Look Out

I sit and look out upon all the sorrows of the world, and upon all oppression and shame,

I hear secret convulsive sobs from young men at anguish with themselves, remorseful after deeds done,

I see in low life the mother misused by her children, dying, neglected, gaunt, desperate,

I see the wife misused by her husband, I see the treacherous seducer of young women,

I mark the ranklings of jealousy and unrequited love attempted to be hid, I see these sights on the earth,

I see the workings of battle, pestilence, tyranny, I see martyrs and prisoners,

I observe a famine at sea, I observe the sailors casting lots who shall be kill’d to preserve the lives of the rest,

I observe the slights and degradations cast by arrogant persons upon laborers, the poor, and upon negroes, and the like;

All these—all the meanness and agony without end I sitting look out upon,

See, hear, and am silent.

Miracles

Why, who makes much of a miracle?

As to me I know of nothing else but miracles,

Whether I walk the streets of Manhattan,

Or dart my sight over the roofs of houses toward the sky,

Or wade with naked feet along the beach just in the edge of the water,

Or stand under trees in the woods,

Or talk by day with any one I love, or sleep in the bed at night with any one I love,

Or sit at table at dinner with the rest,

Or look at strangers opposite me riding in the car,

Or watch honey-bees busy around the hive of a summer forenoon,

Or animals feeding in the fields,

Or birds, or the wonderfulness of insects in the air,

Or the wonderfulness of the sundown, or of stars shining so quiet and bright,

Or the exquisite delicate thin curve of the new moon in spring;

These with the rest, one and all, are to me miracles,

The whole referring, yet each distinct and in its place.

To me every hour of the light and dark is a miracle,

Every cubic inch of space is a miracle,

Every square yard of the surface of the earth is spread with the same,

Every foot of the interior swarms with the same.

To me the sea is a continual miracle,

The fishes that swim—the rocks—the motion of the waves—the ships with men in them,

What stranger miracles are there?

A Noiseless Patient Spider

A noiseless patient spider,

I mark’d where on a little promontory it stood isolated,

Mark’d how to explore the vacant vast surrounding,

It launch’d forth filament, filament, filament, out of itself,

Ever unreeling them, ever tirelessly speeding them.

And you O my soul where you stand,

Surrounded, detached, in measureless oceans of space,

Ceaselessly musing, venturing, throwing, seeking the spheres to connect them,

Till the bridge you will need be form’d, till the ductile anchor hold,

Till the gossamer thread you fling catch somewhere, O my soul.

O Captain! My Captain!

O Captain! my Captain! our fearful trip is done,

The ship has weather’d every rack, the prize we sought is won,

The port is near, the bells I hear, the people all exulting,

While follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and daring;

But O heart! heart! heart! 

O the bleeding drops of red, 

Where on the deck my Captain lies, 

Fallen cold and dead.

O Captain! my Captain! rise up and hear the bells;

Rise up—for you the flag is flung—for you the bugle trills,

For you bouquets and ribbon’d wreaths—for you the shores a-crowding,

For you they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning;

Here Captain! dear father! 

This arm beneath your head! 

It is some dream that on the deck, 

You’ve fallen cold and dead.

My Captain does not answer, his lips are pale and still,

My father does not feel my arm, he has no pulse nor will,

The ship is anchor’d safe and sound, its voyage closed and done,

From fearful trip the victor ship comes in with object won;

Exult O shores, and ring O bells! 

But I with mournful tread, 

Walk the deck my Captain lies, 

Fallen cold and dead.

From Song of Myself1

1

I celebrate myself, and sing myself, 

And what I assume you shall assume, 

For every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you.

I loafe and invite my soul, 

I lean and loafe at my ease observing a spear of summer grass.

My tongue, every atom of my blood, form’d from this soil, this air,

Born here of parents born here from parents the same, and their parents the same.

I, now thirty-seven years old in perfect health begin,

Hoping to cease not till death.

Creeds and schools in abeyance, 

Retiring back a while sufficed at what they are, but never forgotten, 

I harbor for good or bad, I permit to speak at every hazard, 

Nature without check with original energy.

52

The spotted hawk swoops by and accuses me, he complains of my gab and my loitering.

I too am not a bit tamed, I too am untranslatable, 

I sound my barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world.

The last scud of day holds back for me, 

It flings my likeness after the rest and true as any on the shadow’d wilds, 

It coaxes me to the vapor and the dusk.

I depart as air, I shake my white locks at the runaway sun, 

I effuse my flesh in eddies, and drift it in lacy jags.

I bequeath myself to the dirt to grow from the grass I love, 

If you want me again look for me under your boot-soles.

You will hardly know who I am or what I mean, 

But I shall be good health to you nevertheless, 

And filter and fibre your blood.

Failing to fetch me at first keep encouraged, 

Missing me one place search another, 

I stop somewhere waiting for you.

When I Heard the Learn’d Astronomer

When I heard the learn’d astronomer, 

When the proofs, the figures, were ranged in columns before me,

When I was shown the charts and diagrams, to add, divide, and measure them,

When I sitting heard the astronomer where he lectured with much applause in the lecture-room,

How soon unaccountable I became tired and sick, 

Till rising and gliding out I wander’d off by myself, 

In the mystical moist night-air, and from time to time, 

Look’d up in perfect silence at the stars.

section-0_1_bda1ad0f840e368f_287d

FRANCES E. W. HARPER (1825—1911) A prolific author in almost every literary genre, Frances Harper used her writing as a vehicle for advocating racial equality (she was herself the daughter of freed slaves) and women’s rights.

Bury Me in a Free Land

Make me a grave where’er you will, 

In a lowly plain, or a lofty hill, 

Make it among earth’s humblest graves, 

But not in a land where men are slaves.

I could not rest if around my grave 

I heard the steps of a trembling slave: 

His shadow above my silent tomb 

Would make it a place of fearful gloom.

I could not rest if I heard the tread 

Of a coffle gang to the shambles led, 

And the mother’s shriek of wild despair 

Rise like a curse on the trembling air.

I could not sleep if I saw the lash 

Drinking her blood at each fearful gash, 

And I saw her babes torn from her breast, 

Like trembling doves from their parent nest.

I’d shudder and start if I heard the bay 

Of blood-hounds seizing their human prey, 

And I heard the captive plead in vain 

As they bound afresh his galling chain.

If I saw young girls from their mother’s arms 

Bartered and sold for their youthful charms, 

My eye would flash with a mournful flame, 

My death-paled cheek grow red with shame.

I would sleep, dear friends, where bloated might 

Can rob no man of his dearest right; 

My rest shall be calm in any grave 

Where none can call his brother a slave.

I ask no monument, proud and high, 

To arrest the gaze of the passers-by; 

All that my yearning spirit craves, 

Is bury me not in a land of slaves.

Songs for the People

Let me make the songs for the people,

Songs for the old and young;

Songs to stir like a battle-cry

Wherever they are sung.

Not for the clashing of sabres,

For carnage nor for strife;

But songs to thrill the hearts of men

With more abundant life.

Let me make the songs for the weary,

Amid life’s fever and fret,

Till hearts shall relax their tension,

And careworn brows forget.

Let me sing for little children,

Before their footsteps stray,

Sweet anthems of love and duty,

To float o’er life’s highway.

I would sing for the poor and aged,

When shadows dim their sight;

Of the bright and restful mansions,

Where there shall be no night.

Our world, so worn and weary,

Needs music, pure and strong,

To hush the jangle and discords

Of sorrow, pain, and wrong.

Music to soothe all its sorrow,

Till war and crime shall cease;

And the hearts of men grown tender

Girdle the world with peace.

section-0_1_4442c97218b2265_287e

EMILY DICKINSON (1830—1886)

A near-recluse for most of her life, Emily Dickinson was highly imaginative in her use of language and syntax, and concentrated on such themes as death, loss, and beauty with a disarming casualness. Though Dickinson is today regarded as one of America’s greatest poets, fewer than ten of her poems were published during her lifetime.

‘Because I could not stop for Death’

Because I could not stop for Death, 

He kindly stopped for me; 

The carriage held but just ourselves 

And Immortality.

We slowly drove, he knew no haste, 

And I had put away 

My labor, and my leisure too, 

For his civility.

We passed the school where children played, 

Their lessons scarcely done; 

We passed the fields of gazing grain, 

We passed the setting sun.

We paused before a house that seemed 

A swelling of the ground; 

The roof was scarcely visible, 

The cornice but a mound.

Since then ’t is centuries; but each 

Feels shorter than the day 

I first surmised the horses’ heads 

Were toward eternity.

‘Death sets a thing significant’

Death sets a thing significant 

The eye had hurried by, 

Except a perished creature 

Entreat us tenderly

To ponder little workmanships 

In crayon or in wool, 

With “This was last her fingers did,” 

Industrious until

The thimble weighed too heavy, 

The stitches stopped themselves, 

And then ’t was put among the dust 

Upon the closet shelves.

A book I have, a friend gave, 

Whose pencil, here and there, 

Had notched the place that pleased him,—

At rest his fingers are.

Now, when I read, I read not, 

For interrupting tears 

Obliterate the etchings 

Too costly for repairs.

‘Hope is the thing with feathers’

Hope is the thing with feathers 

That perches in the soul, 

And sings the tune without the words, 

And never stops at all,

And sweetest in the gale is heard; 

And sore must be the storm 

That could abash the little bird 

That kept so many warm.

I’ve heard it in the chillest land, 

And on the strangest sea; 

Yet, never, in extremity, 

It asked a crumb of me.

‘I died for beauty’

I died for beauty, but was scarce 

Adjusted in the tomb, 

When one who died for truth was lain 

In an adjoining room.

He questioned softly why I failed? 

“For beauty,” I replied. 

“And I for truth,—the two are one; 

We brethren are,” he said.

And so, as kinsmen met a night, 

We talked between the rooms, 

Until the moss had reached our lips, 

And covered up our names.

‘If I can stop one heart from breaking’

If I can stop one heart from breaking, 

I shall not live in vain; 

If I can ease one life the aching, 

Or cool one pain, 

Or help one fainting robin 

Unto his nest again, 

I shall not live in vain.

‘I’m nobody! Who are you?’

I’m nobody! Who are you? 

Are you nobody, too? 

Then there’s a pair of us—don’t tell! 

They’d banish us, you know.

How dreary to be somebody! 

How public, like a frog 

To tell your name the livelong day 

To an admiring bog!

‘My life closed twice before its close’

My life closed twice before its close;

It yet remains to see

If Immortality unveil

A third event to me,

So huge, so hopeless to conceive,

As these that twice befell.

Parting is all we know of heaven,

And all we need of hell.

‘Success is counted sweetest’

Success is counted sweetest 

By those who ne’er succeed. 

To comprehend a nectar 

Requires sorest need.

Not one of all the purple host 

Who took the flag today 

Can tell the definition, 

So clear, of victory

As he, defeated, dying, 

On whose forbidden ear 

The distant strains of triumph 

Break, agonized and clear.

‘There is no frigate like a book’

There is no frigate like a book

To take us lands away,

Nor any coursers like a page

Of prancing poetry.

This traverse may the poorest take

Without oppress of toll;

How frugal is the chariot

That bears a human soul!

‘This is my letter to the world’

This is my letter to the world,

That never wrote to me,—

The simple news that Nature told,

With tender majesty.

Her message is committed

To hands I cannot see;

For love of her, sweet countrymen,

Judge tenderly of me!

section-0_1_123788e047c6a9d7_287f

EMMA LAZARUS (1849—1887)

A poet, philanthropist, and advocate of Jewish causes, Emma Lazarus wrote “The New Colossus” to support the building of a pedestal for the Statue of Liberty. The poem’s closing lines are now inscribed on that monument’s base.

The New Colossus

Not like the brazen giant of Greek fame, 

With conquering limbs astride from land to land; 

Here at our sea-washed, sunset gates shall stand 

A mighty woman with a torch, whose flame 

Is the imprisoned lightning, and her name 

Mother of Exiles. From her beacon-hand 

Glows world-wide welcome; her mild eyes command 

The air-bridged harbor that twin cities frame. 

“Keep, ancient lands, your storied pomp!” cries she 

With silent lips. “Give me your tired, your poor, 

Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, 

The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. 

Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me, 

I lift my lamp beside the golden door!”

section-0_1_c3c7989363e55db8_2880

ELLA WHEELER WILCOX (1850—1919)

A prolific author throughout her life, Ella Wilcox wrote her first novel at the age of nine. Her sentimental and passionate verse was published in newspapers and magazines throughout America, garnering a readership almost unequalled in her time.

Solitude

Laugh, and the world laughs with you;

Weep, and you weep alone.

For the sad old earth must borrow its mirth,

But has trouble enough of its own.

Sing, and the hills will answer;

Sigh, it is lost on the air.

The echoes bound to a joyful sound,

But shrink from voicing care.

Rejoice, and men will seek you;

Grieve, and they turn and go.

They want full measure of all your pleasure,

But they do not need your woe.

Be glad, and your friends are many;

Be sad, and you lose them all.

There are none to decline your nectared wine,

But alone you must drink life’s gall.

Feast, and your halls are crowded;

Fast, and the world goes by.

Succeed and give, and it helps you live,

But no man can help you die.

There is room in the halls of pleasure

For a long and lordly train,

But one by one we must all file on

Through the narrow aisles of pain.

section-0_1_ca2e382ebdcf5423_2881

ERNEST LAWRENCE THAYER (1863-1940)

First published under a pseudonym in the San Francisco Examiner in 1888, Thayer’s “Casey at the Bat” has become an American standard and an unofficial anthem of baseball.

Casey at the Bat

The outlook wasn’t brilliant for the Mudville nine that day; 

The score stood four to two with but one inning more to play. 

And then when Cooney died at first, and Barrows did the same, 

A sickly silence fell upon the patrons of the game.

A straggling few got up to go in deep despair. The rest 

Clung to the hope which springs eternal in the human breast; 

They thought if only Casey could but get a whack at that—

We’d put up even money now with Casey at the bat.

But Flynn preceded Casey, as did also Jimmy Blake, 

And the former was a lulu and the latter was a cake; 

So upon that stricken multitude grim melancholy sat, 

For there seemed but little chance of Casey’s getting to the bat.

But Flynn let drive a single, to the wonderment of all, 

And Blake, the much despis-ed, tore the cover off the ball; 

And when the dust had lifted, and the men saw what had occurred, 

There was Johnnie safe at second and Flynn a-hugging third.

Then from 5,000 throats and more there rose a lusty yell; 

It rumbled through the valley, it rattled in the dell; 

It knocked upon the mountain and recoiled upon the flat, 

For Casey, mighty Casey, was advancing to the bat.

There was ease in Casey’s manner as he stepped into his place; 

There was pride in Casey’s bearing and a smile on Casey’s face. 

And when, responding to the cheers, he lightly doffed his hat, 

No stranger in the crowd could doubt ‘twas Casey at the bat.

Ten thousand eyes were on him as he rubbed his hands with dirt; 

Five thousand tongues applauded when he wiped them on his shirt. 

Then while the writhing pitcher ground the ball into his hip, 

Defiance gleamed in Casey’s eye, a sneer curled Casey’s lip.

And now the leather-covered sphere came hurtling through the air, 

And Casey stood a-watching it in haughty grandeur there. 

Close by the sturdy batsman the ball unheeded sped—

“That ain’t my style,” said Casey. “Strike one,” the umpire said.

From the benches, black with people, there went up a muffled roar, 

Like the beating of the storm-waves on a stern and distant shore. 

“Kill him! Kill the umpire!” shouted some one on the stand; 

And it’s likely they’d have killed him had not Casey raised his hand.

With a smile of Christian charity great Casey’s visage shown; 

He stilled the rising tumult; he bade the game go on; 

He signaled to the pitcher, and once more the spheroid flew; 

But Casey still ignored it, and the umpire said, “Strike two.”

“Fraud!” cried the maddened thousands, and echo answered fraud; 

But one scornful look from Casey and the audience was awed. 

They saw his face grow stern and cold, they saw his muscles strain, 

And they knew that Casey wouldn’t let that ball go by again.

The sneer is gone from Casey’s lip, his teeth are clenched in hate; 

He pounds with cruel violence his bat upon the plate. 

And now the pitcher holds the ball, and now he lets it go, 

And now the air is shattered by the force of Casey’s blow.

Oh, somewhere in this favored land the sun is shining bright; 

The band is playing somewhere, and somewhere hearts are light, 

And somewhere men are laughing, and somewhere children shout; 

But there is no joy in Mudvitte—mighty Casey has struck out.

section-0_1_b6d377788960a468_2882

EDGAR LEE MASTERS (1868-1950)

Masters’ Spoon River Anthology (from which the following is taken) recreates the intrigues, feuds, triumphs, and defeats of life in a small Midwestern town, told in the self-written epitaphs of its dead.

The Unknown

Ye aspiring ones, listen to the story of the unknown 

Who lies here with no stone to mark the place. 

As a boy reckless and wanton, 

Wandering with gun in hand through the forest 

Near the mansion of Aaron Hatfield, 

I shot a hawk perched on the top 

Of a dead tree. 

He fell with guttural cry 

At my feet, his wing broken. 

Then I put him in a cage 

Where he lived many days cawing angrily at me 

When I offered him food. 

Daily I search the realms of Hades 

For the soul of the hawk, 

That I may offer him the friendship 

Of one whom life wounded and caged.

section-0_1_af52a820489f6485_2883

EDWIN ARLINGTON ROBINSON (1869—1935)

Robinson’s best-known poems, like those of Edgar Lee Masters, reflect life in a small American town. His elevated diction and precise metrical technique, however, stand in marked contrast to the rough voice and liberated form used by Masters.

Miniver Cheevy

Miniver Cheevy, child of scorn,

Grew lean while he assailed the seasons;

He wept that he was ever born,

And he had reasons.

Miniver loved the days of old

When swords were bright and steeds were prancing;

The vision of a warrior bold

Would set him dancing.

Miniver sighed for what was not,

And dreamed, and rested from his labors;

He dreamed of Thebes and Camelot,

And Priam’s neighbors.

Miniver mourned the ripe renown

That made so many a name so fragrant;

He mourned Romance, now on the town,

And Art, a vagrant.

Miniver loved the Medici,

Albeit he had never seen one;

He would have sinned incessantly

Could he have been one.

Miniver cursed the commonplace

And eyed a khaki suit with loathing;

He missed the mediaeval grace

Of iron clothing.

Miniver scorned the gold he sought,

But sore annoyed was he without it;

Miniver thought, and thought, and thought,

And thought about it.

Miniver Cheevy, born too late,

Scratched his head and kept on thinking;

Miniver coughed, and called it fate,

And kept on drinking.

Mr. Flood’s Party

Old Eben Flood, climbing alone one night 

Over the hill between the town below 

And the forsaken upland hermitage 

That held as much as he should ever know 

On earth again of home, paused warily. 

The road was his with not a native near; 

And Eben, having leisure, said aloud, 

For no man else in Tilbury Town to hear:

“Well, Mr. Flood, we have the harvest moon 

Again, and we may not have many more; 

The bird is on the wing, the poet says, 

And you and I have said it here before. 

Drink to the bird.” He raised up to the light 

The jug that he had gone so far to fill, 

And answered huskily: “Well, Mr. Flood, 

Since you propose it, I believe I will.”

Alone, as if enduring to the end 

A valiant armor of scarred hopes outworn, 

He stood there in the middle of the road 

Like Roland’s ghost winding a silent horn. 

Below him, in the town among the trees, 

Where friends of other days had honored him, 

A phantom salutation of the dead 

Rang thinly till old Eben’s eyes were dim.

Then, as a mother lays her sleeping child 

Down tenderly, fearing it may awake, 

He set the jug down slowly at his feet 

With trembling care, knowing that most things break; 

And only when assured that on firm earth 

It stood, as the uncertain lives of men 

Assuredly did not, he paced away, 

And with his hand extended paused again:

“Well, Mr. Flood, we have not met like this 

In a long time; and many a change has come 

To both of us, I fear, since last it was 

We had a drop together. Welcome home!” 

Convivially returning with himself, 

Again he raised the jug up to the light; 

And with an acquiescent quaver said: 

“Well, Mr. Flood, if you insist, I might.

“Only a very little, Mr. Flood—

For auld lang syne. No more, sir; that will do.” 

So, for the time, apparently it did, 

And Eben evidently thought so too; 

For soon amid the silver loneliness 

Of night he lifted up his voice and sang, 

Secure, with only two moons listening, 

Until the whole harmonious landscape rang— 

“For auld lang syne.” The weary throat gave out, 

The last word wavered, and the song was done. 

He raised again the jug regretfully 

And shook his head, and was again alone. 

There was not much that was ahead of him, 

And there was nothing in the town below—

Where strangers would have shut the doors 

That many friends had opened long ago.

Richard Cory

Whenever Richard Cory went down town, 

We people on the pavement looked at him: 

He was a gentleman from sole to crown, 

Clean favored, and imperially slim.

And he was always quietly arrayed, 

And he was always human when he talked; 

But still he fluttered pulses when he said, 

“Good-morning,” and he glittered when he walked.

And he was rich—yes, richer than a king—

And admirably schooled in every grace; 

In fine, we thought that he was everything 

To make us wish that we were in his place.

So on we worked, and waited for the light, 

And went without the meat, and cursed the bread; 

And Richard Cory, one calm summer night, 

Went home and put a bullet through his head.

section-0_1_c2ebdd242aa3751a_2884

STEPHEN CRANE (1871-1900)

Despite the success of his early novel The Red Badge of Courage, Stephen Crane was largely neglected as a poet during his lifetime. The twentieth century, however, has come to recognize in Crane’s verse the work of a writer near to Whitman and Dickinson in the originality of his form and vision.

‘I saw a man pursuing the horizon’

I saw a man pursuing the horizon; 

Round and round they sped. 

I was disturbed at this; 

I accosted the man. 

“It is futile,” I said, 

“You can never——”

“You lie,” he cried, 

And ran on.

War Is Kind

Do not weep, maiden, for war is kind. 

Because your lover threw wild hands toward the sky 

And the affrighted steed ran on alone, 

Do not weep. 

War is kind.

Hoarse, booming drums of the regiment, 

Little souls who thirst for fight, 

These men were born to drill and die. 

The unexplained glory flies above them, 

Great is the battle-god, great, and his kingdom——

A field where a thousand corpses lie.

Do not weep, babe, for war is kind. 

Because your father tumbled in the yellow trenches, 

Raged at his breast, gulped and died, 

Do not weep. 

War is kind.

Swift blazing flag of the regiment, 

Eagle with crest of red and gold, 

These men were born to drill and die. 

Point for them the virtue of slaughter, 

Make plain to them the excellence of killing 

And a field where a thousand corpses lie.

Mother whose heart hung humble as a button 

On the bright splendid shroud of your son, 

Do not weep. 

War is kind.

section-0_1_dcb709ba82dcb703_2885

JAMES WELDON JOHNSON (1871—1938)

An educator, diplomat, and NAACP general secretary, Johnson wrote poetry that ranged from sonnets in standard English to verse in the dialect of the South. He also edited the seminal anthology The Book of American Negro Poetry (1921; rev. 1931).

Sence You Went Away

Seems lak to me de stars don’t shine so bright, 

Seems lak to me de sun done loss his light, 

Seems lak to me der’s nothin’ goin’ right, 

Sence you went away.

Seems lak to me de sky ain’t half so blue, 

Seems lak to me dat ev’ything wants you, 

Seems lak to me I don’t know what to do, 

Sence you went away.

Seems lak to me dat ev’ything is wrong, 

Seems lak to me de day’s jes twice es long, 

Seems lak to me de bird’s forgot his song, 

Sence you went away.

Seems lak to me I jes can’t he‘p but sigh, 

Seems lak to me ma th’oat keeps gittin’ dry, 

Seems lak to me a tear stays in ma eye, 

Sence you went away.

section-0_1_e75cbfc7bf92ddf2_2886

PAUL LAURENCE DUNBAR (1872—1906)

Dunbar’s dialect poems brought him a readership unprecedented for a black poet. Today, however, his reputation rests primarily upon his poetry in traditional English, in which he addresses issues of identity and prejudice.

The Lesson

My cot was down by a cypress grove,

And I sat by my window the whole night long,

And heard well up from the deep dark wood

A mocking-bird’s passionate song.

And I thought of myself so sad and lone,

And my life’s cold winter that knew no spring;

Of my mind so weary and sick and wild,

Of my heart too sad to sing.

But c’en as I listened the mocking-bird’s song,

A thought stole into my saddened heart,

And I said, “I can cheer up some other soul

By a carol’s simple art.”

For oft from the darkness of hearts and lives

Come songs that brim with joy and light,

As out of the gloom and the cypress grove

The mocking-bird sings at night.

So I sang a lay for a brother’s ear

In a strain to soothe his bleeding heart,

And he smiled at the sound of my voice and lyre,

Though mine was a feeble art.

But at his smile I smiled in turn,

And into my soul there came a ray:

In trying to soothe another’s woes

Mine own had passed away.

Sympathy

I know what the caged bird feels, alas!

When the sun is bright on the upland slopes;

When the wind stirs soft through the springing grass

And the river flows like a stream of glass;

When the first bird sings and the first bud opes,

And the faint perfume from its chalice steals—

I know what the caged bird feels!

I know why the caged bird beats his wing

Till blood is red on the cruel bars;

For he must fly back to his perch and cling

When he fain would be on the bough a-swing;

And a pain still throbs in the old, old scars

And they pulse again with a keener sting—

I know why he beats his wing!

I know why the caged bird sings, ah me,

When his wing is bruised and his bosom sore,—

When he beats his bars and would be free;

It is not a carol of joy or glee,

But a prayer that he sends from his heart’s deep core,

But a plea, that upward to Heaven he flings—

I know why the caged bird sings!

We Wear the Mask

We wear the mask that grins and lies, 

It hides our cheeks and shades our eyes—

This debt we pay to human guile; 

With torn and bleeding hearts we smile 

And mouth with myriad subtleties.

Why should the world be over-wise, 

In counting all our tears and sighs? 

Nay, let them only see us, while 

We wear the mask.

We smile, but oh great Christ, our cries 

To Thee from tortured souls arise. 

We sing, but oh the clay is vile 

Beneath our feet, and long the mile; 

But let the world dream otherwise, 

We wear the mask!

section-0_1_71b8e125068905c0_2887

GERTRUDE STEIN (1874—1946)

Working in almost every verbal medium, Gertrude Stein strove to free words from their traditional (and in her mind, stale) associations. Her poetic portraits, like the Cubist paintings she admired, are intended to capture the “essence” of her subjects without the use of conventional methods of representation.

Susie Asado

Sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea.

Susie Asado.

Sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea.

Susie Asado.

Susie Asado which is a told tray sure.

A lean on the shoe this means slips slips hers.

When the ancient light grey is clean it is yellow, it is a silver seller.

This is a please this is a please there are the saids to jelly. These are the wets these say the sets to leave a crown to Incy.

Incy is short for incubus.

A pot. A pot is a beginning of a rare bit of trees. Trees tremble, the old vats are in bobbles, bobbles which shade and shove and render clean, render clean must.

Drink pups.

Drink pups drink pups lease a sash hold, see it shine and a bobolink has pins. It shows a nail.

What is a nail. A nail is unison.

Sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea.

section-0_1_2ace3c46d2470c58_2888

ROBERT FROST (1874—1963)

Though often considered the quintessential poet of New England and America, Frost was raised in California and first published in England. His poems, written mostly in plain speech using a traditional meter, frequently compare the outer, natural world to the inner world of the psyche.

Acquainted with the Night

I have been one acquainted with the night. 

I have walked out in rain—and back in rain. 

I have outwalked the furthest city light.

I have looked down the saddest city lane. 

I have passed by the watchman on his beat 

And dropped my eyes, unwilling to explain.

I have stood still and stopped the sound of feet 

When far away an interrupted cry 

Came over houses from another street,

But not to call me back or say good-by; 

And further still at an unearthly height 

One luminary clock against the sky

Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right. 

I have been one acquainted with the night.

After Apple-Picking

My long two-pointed ladder’s sticking through a tree 

Toward heaven still, 

And there’s a barrel that I didn’t fill 

Beside it, and there may be two or three 

Apples I didn’t pick upon some bough. 

But I am done with apple-picking now. 

Essence of winter sleep is on the night, 

The scent of apples: I am drowsing off. 

I cannot rub the strangeness from my sight 

I got from looking through a pane of glass 

I skimmed this morning from the drinking trough 

And held against the world of hoary grass. 

It melted, and I let it fall and break. 

But I was well 

Upon my way to sleep before it fell, 

And I could tell 

What form my dreaming was about to take. 

Magnified apples appear and disappear, 

Stem end and blossom end, 

And every fleck of russet showing clear. 

My instep arch not only keeps the ache, 

It keeps the pressure of the ladder-round. 

I feel the ladder sway as the boughs bend. 

And I keep hearing from the cellar bin 

The rumbling sound 

Of load on load of apples coming in. 

For I have had too much 

Of apple-picking: I am overtired 

Of the great harvest I myself desired. 

There were ten thousand thousand fruit to touch, 

Cherish in hand, lift down, and not let fall. 

For all 

That struck the earth, 

No matter if not bruised or spiked with stubble, 

Went surely to the cider-apple heap 

As of no worth. 

One can see what will trouble 

This sleep of mine, whatever sleep it is. 

Were he not gone, 

That woodchuck could say whether it’s like his 

Long sleep, as I describe its coming on, 

Or just some human sleep.

Birches

When I see birches bend to left and right 

Across the lines of straighter darker trees, 

I like to think some boy’s been swinging them. 

But swinging doesn’t bend them down to stay 

As ice-storms do. Often you must have seen them 

Loaded with ice a sunny winter morning 

After a rain. They click upon themselves 

As the breeze rises, and turn many-colored 

As the stir cracks and crazes their enamel. 

Soon the sun’s warmth makes them shed crystal shells 

Shattering and avalanching on the snow-crust—

Such heaps of broken glass to sweep away 

You’d think the inner dome of heaven had fallen. 

They are dragged to the withered bracken by the load, 

And they seem not to break; though once they are bowed 

So low for long, they never right themselves: 

You may see their trunks arching in the woods 

Years afterwards, trailing their leaves on the ground 

Like girls on hands and knees that throw their hair 

Before them over their heads to dry in the sun. 

But I was going to say when Truth broke in 

With all her matter-of-fact about the ice-storm 

I should prefer to have some boy bend them 

As he went out and in to fetch the cows—

Some boy too far from town to learn baseball, 

Whose only play was what he found himself, 

Summer or winter, and could play alone. 

One by one he subdued his father’s trees 

By riding them down over and over again 

Until he took the stiffness out of them, 

And not one but hung limp, not one was left 

For him to conquer. He learned all there was 

To learn about not launching out too soon 

And so not carrying the tree away 

Clear to the ground. He always kept his poise 

To the top branches, climbing carefully 

With the same pains you use to fill a cup 

Up to the brim, and even above the brim.

Then he flung outward, feet first, with a swish, 

Kicking his way down through the air to the ground. 

So was I once myself a swinger of birches. 

And so I dream of going back to be. 

It’s when I’m weary of considerations, 

And life is too much like a pathless wood 

Where your face burns and tickles with the cobwebs 

Broken across it, and one eye is weeping 

From a twig’s having lashed across it open. 

I’d like to get away from earth awhile 

And then come back to it and begin over. 

May no fate willfully misunderstand me 

And half grant what I wish and snatch me away 

Not to return. Earth’s the right place for love: 

I don’t know where it’s likely to go better. 

I’d like to go by climbing a birch tree, 

And climb black branches up a snow-white trunk 

Toward heaven, till the tree could bear no more, 

But dipped its top and set me down again. 

That would be good both going and coming back. 

One could do worse than be a swinger of birches.

Design

I found a dimpled spider, fat and white, 

On a white heal-all, holding up a moth 

Like a white piece of rigid satin cloth—

Assorted characters of death and blight 

Mixed ready to begin the morning right, 

Like the ingredients of a witches’ broth—

A snow-drop spider, a flower like a froth, 

And dead wings carried like a paper kite.

What had that flower to do with being white, 

The wayside blue and innocent heal-all? 

What brought the kindred spider to that height, 

Then steered the white moth thither in the night? 

What but design of darkness to appall?—

If design govern in a thing so small.

Fire and Ice

Some say the world will end in fire, 

Some say in ice. 

From what I’ve tasted of desire 

I hold with those who favor fire. 

But if it had to perish twice, 

I think I know enough of hate 

To say that for destruction ice 

Is also great 

And would suffice.

Mending Wall

Something there is that doesn’t love a wall, 

That sends the frozen-ground-swell under it, 

And spills the upper boulders in the sun; 

And makes gaps even two can pass abreast. 

The work of hunters is another thing: 

I have come after them and made repair 

Where they have left not one stone on a stone, 

But they would have the rabbit out of hiding, 

To please the yelping dogs. The gaps I mean, 

No one has seen them made or heard them made, 

But at spring mending-time we find them there. 

I let my neighbor know beyond the hill; 

And on a day we meet to walk the line 

And set the wall between us once again. 

We keep the wall between us as we go. 

To each the boulders that have fallen to each. 

And some are loaves and some so nearly balls 

We have to use a spell to make them balance: 

“Stay where you are until our backs are turned!” 

We wear our fingers rough with handling them. 

Oh, just another kind of out-door game, 

One on a side. It comes to little more: 

There where it is we do not need the wall: 

He is all pine and I am apple orchard. 

My apple trees will never get across 

And eat the cones under his pines, I tell him. 

He only says, “Good fences make good neighbors.”

Spring is the mischief in me, and I wonder 

If I could put a notion in his head: 

“Why do they make good neighbors? Isn’t it 

Where there are cows? But here there are no cows. 

Before I built a wall I’d ask to know 

What I was walling in or walling out, 

And to whom I was like to give offense. 

Something there is that doesn’t love a wall, 

That wants it down.” I could say “Elves” to him, 

But it’s not elves exactly, and I’d rather 

He said it for himself. I see him there 

Bringing a stone grasped firmly by the top 

In each hand, like an old-stone savage armed. 

He moves in darkness as it seems to me, 

Not of woods only and the shade of trees. 

He will not go behind his father’s saying, 

And he likes having thought of it so well 

He says again, “Good fences make good neighbors.”

Nothing Gold Can Stay

Nature’s first green is gold, 

Her hardest hue to hold. 

Her early leaf’s a flower; 

But only so an hour. 

Then leaf subsides to leaf. 

So Eden sank to grief, 

So dawn goes down to day. 

Nothing gold can stay.

The Road Not Taken

Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, 

And sorry I could not travel both 

And be one traveler, long I stood 

And looked down one as far as I could 

To where it bent in the undergrowth;

Then took the other, as just as fair, 

And having perhaps the better claim, 

Because it was grassy and wanted wear; 

Though as for that the passing there 

Had worn them really about the same,

And both that morning equally lay 

In leaves no step had trodden black. 

Oh, I kept the first for another day! 

Yet knowing how way leads on to way, 

I doubted if I should ever come back.

I shall be telling this with a sigh 

Somewhere ages and ages hence: 

Two roads diverged in a wood, and I—

I took the one less traveled by, 

And that has made all the difference.

Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening

Whose woods these are I think I know. 

His house is in the village though; 

He will not see me stopping here 

To watch his woods fill up with snow.

My little horse must think it queer 

To stop without a farmhouse near 

Between the woods and frozen lake 

The darkest evening of the year.

He gives his harness bells a shake 

To ask if there is some mistake. 

The only other sound’s the sweep 

Of easy wind and downy flake.

The woods are lovely, dark and deep. 

But I have promises to keep, 

And miles to go before I sleep, 

And miles to go before I sleep.

Two Tramps in Mud Time

Out of the mud two strangers came 

And caught me splitting wood in the yard.

And one of them put me off my aim 

By hailing cheerily “Hit them hard!” 

I knew pretty well why he dropped behind 

And let the other go on a way. 

I knew pretty well what he had in mind: 

He wanted to take my job for pay.

Good blocks of oak it was I split, 

As large around as the chopping block; 

And every piece I squarely hit 

Fell splinterless as a cloven rock. 

The blows that a life of self-control 

Spares to strike for the common good 

That day, giving a loose to my soul, 

I spent on the unimportant wood.

The sun was warm but the wind was chill. 

You know how it is with an April day 

When the sun is out and the wind is still, 

You’re one month on in the middle of May. 

But if you so much as dare to speak, 

A cloud comes over the sunlit arch, 

A wind comes off a frozen peak, 

And you’re two months back in the middle of March.

A bluebird comes tenderly up to alight 

And turns to the wind to unruffle a plume 

His song so pitched as not to excite 

A single flower as yet to bloom. 

It is snowing a flake: and he half knew 

Winter was only playing possum. 

Except in color he isn’t blue, 

But he wouldn’t advise a thing to blossom.

The water for which we may have to look 

In summertime with a witching-wand, 

In every wheelrut’s now a brook, 

In every print of a hoof a pond. 

Be glad of water, but don’t forget 

The lurking frost in the earth beneath 

That will steal forth after the sun is set 

And show on the water its crystal teeth.

The time when most I loved my task 

These two must make me love it more 

By coming with what they came to ask. 

You’d think I never had felt before 

The weight of an ax-head poised aloft, 

The grip on earth of outspread feet. 

The life of muscles rocking soft 

And smooth and moist in vernal heat.

Out of the woods two hulking tramps 

(From sleeping God knows where last night, 

But not long since the lumber camps). 

They thought all chopping was theirs of right. 

Men of the woods and lumberjacks, 

They judged me by their appropriate tool. 

Except as a fellow handled an ax 

They had no way of knowing a fool.

Nothing on either side was said. 

They knew they had but to stay their stay 

And all their logic would fill my head: 

As that I had no right to play 

With what was one man’s work for gain. 

My right might be love but theirs was need. 

And where the two exist in twain 

Theirs was the better right—agreed.

But yield who will to their separation, 

My object in living is to unite 

My avocation and my vocation 

As my two eyes make one in sight. 

Only where love and need are one, 

And the work is play for mortal stakes, 

Is the deed ever really done 

For Heaven and the future’s sakes.

section-0_1_7dfc540f9a6e885d_2889

CARL SANDBURG (1878—1967)

Although clearly influenced by Whitman’s free verse and celebration of the common man, Sandburg’s own use of language and subject matter also derived from his experiences as a manual laborer in the Midwest. Sandburg ultimately received three Pulitzer prizes: one for his multi-volume biography of Abraham Lincoln, and two for his poetry.

Chicago

Hog Butcher for the World, 

Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat, 

Player with Railroads and the Nation’s Freight Handler; 

Stormy, husky, brawling, 

City of the Big Shoulders:

They tell me you are wicked and I believe them, for I have seen your painted women under the gas lamps luring the farm boys.

And they tell me you are crooked and I answer: Yes, it is true I have seen the gunman kill and go free to kill again.

And they tell me you are brutal and my reply is: On the faces of women and children I have seen the marks of wanton hunger.

And having answered so I turn once more to those who sneer at this my city, and I give them back the sneer and say to them:

Come and show me another city with lifted head singing so proud to be alive and coarse and strong and cunning.

Flinging magnetic curses amid the toil of piling job on job, here is a tall bold slugger set vivid against the little soft cities;

Fierce as a dog with tongue lapping for action, cunning as a savage pitted against the wilderness,

Bareheaded, 

Shoveling, 

Wrecking, 

Planning, 

Building, breaking, rebuilding,

Under the smoke, dust all over his mouth, laughing with white teeth, 

Under the terrible burden of destiny laughing as a young man laughs, 

Laughing even as an ignorant fighter laughs who has never lost a battle, 

Bragging and laughing that under his wrist is the pulse, and under his 

ribs the heart of the people, 

Laughing!

Laughing the stormy, husky, brawling laughter of Youth, half-naked, 

sweating, proud to be Hog Butcher, Tool Maker, Stacker of 

Wheat, Player with Railroads and Freight Handler to the Nation.

Fog

The fog comes 

on little cat feet.

It sits looking 

over harbor and city 

on silent haunches 

and then moves on.

I Am the People, the Mob

I am the people—the mob—the crowd—the mass.

Do you know that all the great work of the world is done through me?

I am the workingman, the inventor, the maker of the world’s food and clothes.

I am the audience that witnesses history. The Napoleons come from me and the Lincolns. They die. And then I send forth more Napoleons and Lincolns.

I am the seed ground. I am a prairie that will stand for much plowing. Terrible storms pass over me. I forget. The best of me is sucked out and wasted. I forget. Everything but Death comes to me and makes me work and give up what I have. And I forget.

Sometimes I growl, shake myself and spatter a few red drops for history to remember. Then—I forget.

When I, the People, learn to remember, when I, the People, use the lessons of yesterday and no longer forget who robbed me last year, who played me for a fool—then there will be no speaker in all the world say the name: “The People,” with any fleck of a sneer in his voice or any far-off smile of derision.

The mob—the crowd—the mass—wit! arrive then.

section-0_1_31e84bc2f45294fe_288a

VACHEL LINDSAY (1879—1931)

Lindsay began his poetic career by tramping around the country, bartering his verse for food and shelter. He believed that poetry was best experienced when read aloud, and he frequently chose themes that had a strong popular appeal.

Abraham Lincoln Walks At Midnight

(In Springfield, Illinois)

It is portentous, and a thing of state 

That here at midnight, in our little town 

A mourning figure walks, and will not rest, 

Near the old court-house pacing up and down,

Or by his homestead, or in shadowed yards 

He lingers where his children used to play, 

Or through the market, on the well-worn stones 

He stalks until the dawn-stars burn away.

A bronzed, lank man! His suit of ancient black, 

A famous high top-hat and plain worn shawl 

Make him the quaint great figure that men love, 

The prairie-lawyer, master of us all.

He cannot sleep upon his hillside now, 

He is among us:—as in times before! 

And we who toss and lie awake for long, 

Breathe deep, and start, to see him pass the door.

His head is bowed. He thinks on men and kings. 

Yea, when the sick world cries, how can he sleep? 

Too many peasants fight, they know not why; 

Too many homesteads in black terror weep.

The sins of all the war-lords burn his heart. 

He sees the dreadnaughts scouring every main. 

He carries on his shawl-wrapped shoulders now 

The bitterness, the folly and the pain.

He cannot rest until a spirit-dawn 

Shall come;—the shining hope of Europe free: 

The league of sober folk, the Workers’ Earth, 

Bringing long peace to Cornland, Alp and Sea.

It breaks his heart that kings must murder still, 

That all his hours of travail here for men 

Seem yet in vain. And who will bring white peace 

That he may sleep upon his hill again?

Euclid

Old Euclid drew a circle 

On a sand-beach long ago. 

He bounded and enclosed it 

With angles thus and so. 

His set of solemn greybeards 

Nodded and argued much 

Of arc and of circumference, 

Diameter and such. 

A silent child stood by them 

From morning until noon 

Because they drew such charming 

Round pictures of the moon.

The Leaden-Eyed

Let not young souls be smothered out before 

They do quaint deeds and fully flaunt their pride. 

It is the world’s one crime its babes grow dull, 

Its poor are oxlike, limp and leaden-eyed. 

Not that they starve, but starve so dreamlessly; 

Not that they sow, but that they seldom reap; 

Not that they serve, but have no gods to serve; 

Not that they die, but that they die like sheep.

section-0_1_57296b7466aca59c_288b

WALLACE STEVENS (1879—1955)

Stevens was a seeming contradiction: an insurance executive who was also one of this century’s most challenging poets. Central to his work is a faith in the redemptive power of the imagination, as well as the conviction that ultimately “Poetry is the subject of the poem.”

The Emperor of Ice-Cream

Call the roller of big cigars, 

The muscular one, and bid him whip 

In kitchen cups concupiscent curds. 

Let the wenches dawdle in such dress 

As they are used to wear, and let the boys 

Bring flowers in last month’s newspapers. 

Let be be finale of seem. 

The only emperor is the emperor of ice-cream.

Take from the dresser of deal, 

Lacking the three glass knobs, that sheet 

On which she embroidered fantails once 

And spread it so as to cover her face. 

If her horny feet protrude, they come 

To show how cold she is, and dumb. 

Let the lamp affix its beam. 

The only emperor is the emperor of ice-cream.

Gubbinal

That strange flower, the sun, 

Is just what you say. 

Have it your way.

The world is ugly, 

And the people are sad.

That tuft of jungle feathers, 

That animal eye, 

Is just what you say.

That savage of fire, 

That seed, 

Have it your way.

The world is ugly, 

And the people are sad.

The Reader

All night I sat reading a book, 

Sat reading as if in a book 

Of sombre pages.

It was autumn and falling stars 

Covered the shrivelled forms 

Crouched in the moonlight.

No lamp was burning as I read, 

A voice was mumbling, “Everything 

Falls back to coldness,

Even the musky muscadines, 

The melons, the vermilion pears 

Of the leafless garden.”

The sombre pages bore no print 

Except the trace of burning stars 

In the frosty heaven.

Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird

I

Among twenty snowy mountains, 

The only moving thing 

Was the eye of the blackbird.

II

I was of three minds, 

Like a tree 

In which there are three blackbirds.

III

The blackbird whirled in the autumn winds. It was a small part of the pantomime.

IV

A man and a woman 

Are one. 

A man and a woman and a blackbird 

Are one.

V

I do not know which to prefer, 

The beauty of inflections 

Or the beauty of innuendoes, 

The blackbird whistling 

Or just after.

VI

Icicles filled the long window 

With barbaric glass. 

The shadow of the blackbird 

Crossed it, to and fro. 

The mood 

Traced in the shadow 

An indecipherable cause.

VII

O thin men of Haddam, 

Why do you imagine golden birds? 

Do you not see how the blackbird 

Walks around the feet 

Of the women about you?

VIII

I know noble accents 

And lucid, inescapable rhythms; 

But I know, too, 

That the blackbird is involved 

In what I know.

IX

When the blackbird flew out of sight, 

It marked the edge 

Of one of many circles.

X

At the sight of the blackbirds 

Flying in a green light, 

Even the bawds of euphony 

Would cry out sharply.

XI

He rode over Connecticut 

In a glass coach. 

Once, a fear pierced him, 

In that he mistook 

The shadow of his equipage 

For blackbirds.

XII

The river is moving. 

The blackbird must be flying.

XIII

It was evening all afternoon. 

It was snowing 

And it was going to snow. 

The blackbird sat 

In the cedar-limbs.

section-0_1_203be73b8e7b822_288c

WILLIAM CARLOS WILLIAMS (1883—1963)

Williams’ rigorous use of form and his vivid imagery belie the apparent simplicity of his poems. A pediatrician by profession, he sought in his writing to create a distinctly American art, achieving this in part by his use of the vocabulary and cadences of everyday speech.

The Great Figure

Among the rain 

and lights 

I saw the figure 5 

in gold 

on a red 

firetruck 

moving 

tense 

unheeded 

to gong clangs 

siren howls 

and wheels rumbling 

through the dark city.

The Red Wheelbarrow

so much depends 

upon

a red wheel 

barrow

glazed with rain 

water

beside the white 

chickens.

This Is just to Say

I have eaten 

the plums 

that were in 

the icebox

and which 

you were probably 

saving 

for breakfast

Forgive me 

they were delicious 

so sweet 

and so cold

The Widow’s Lament in Springtime

Sorrow is my own yard 

where the new grass 

flames as it has flamed 

often before but not 

with the cold fire 

that closes round me this year. 

Thirtyfive years 

I lived with my husband. 

The plumtree is white today 

with masses of flowers. 

Masses of flowers 

load the cherry branches 

and color some bushes 

yellow and some red 

but the grief in my heart 

is stronger than they 

for though they were my joy 

formerly, today I notice them 

and turn away forgetting. 

Today my son told me 

that in the meadows, 

at the edge of the heavy woods 

in the distance, he saw 

trees of white flowers. 

I feel that I would like 

to go there 

and fall into those flowers 

and sink into the marsh near them.

section-0_1_7ccf3c7f6c2b9b46_288d

SARA TEASDALE (1884—1933) The austere quatrains of “Peace” are typical of much of Teasdale’s short, personal, and lyrical verse. Teasdale won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry in 1918.

Peace

Peace flows into me

As the tide to the pool by the shore;

It is mine forevermore,

It will not ebb like the sea.

I am the pool of blue

That worships the vivid sky;

My hopes were heaven-high,

They are all fulfilled in you.

I am the pool of gold

When sunset burns and dies—

You are my deepening skies;

Give me your stars to hold.

section-0_1_446f8fba7d572610_288e

EZRA POUND (1885—1972)

One of the most controversial figures of his time, Ezra Pound exerted a profound influence on American letters, both through his own writing and through his encouragement of other authors (particularly Robert Frost and T. S. Eliot).

In a Station of the Metro

The apparition of these faces in the crowd; Petals on a wet, black bough.

The River-Merchant’s Wife: A Letter

TRANSLATED FROM THE CHINESE OF LI PO [RIHAKU]

While my hair was still cut straight across my forehead 

I played about the front gate, pulling flowers.

You came by on bamboo stilts, playing horse, 

You walked about my seat, playing with blue plums. 

And we went on living in the village of Chokan: 

Two small people, without dislike or suspicion.

At fourteen I married My Lord you. 

I never laughed, being bashful. 

Lowering my head, I looked at the wall. 

Called to, a thousand times, I never looked back.

At fifteen I stopped scowling, 

I desired my dust to be mingled with yours 

Forever and forever and forever. 

Why should I climb the look out?

At sixteen you departed, 

You went into far Ku-to-yen, by the river of swirling eddies, 

And you have been gone five months. 

The monkeys make sorrowful noise overhead. 

You dragged your feet when you went out. 

By the gate now, the moss is grown, the different mosses, 

Too deep to clear them away! 

The leaves fall early this autumn, in wind. 

The paired butterflies are already yellow with August 

Over the grass in the West garden; 

They hurt me. I grow older. 

If you are coming down through the narrows of the river Kiang, 

Please let me know beforehand,

And I will come out to meet you

As far as Cho-fu-Sa.

section-0_1_7c9c2cc935c8404f_288f

ROBINSON JEFFERS (1887—1962)

Jeffers spent his writing life in Carmel, California, a region that in his poetry came to symbolize the enduring quality of the natural world, as opposed to the transient (and often self-destructive) nature of man.

Shine, Perishing Republic

While this America settles in the mold of its vulgarity, heavily thickening to empire,

And protest, only a bubble in the molten mass, pops and sighs out, and the mass hardens,

I sadly smiling remember that the flower fades to make fruit, the fruit rots to make earth.

Out of the mother; and through the spring exultances, ripeness and decadence; and home to the mother.

You making haste haste on decay: not blameworthy; life is good, be it stubbornly long or suddenly

A mortal splendor: meteors are not needed less than mountains: shine, perishing republic.

But for my children, I would have them keep their distance from the thickening center; corruption

Never has been compulsory, when the cities lie at the monster’s feet there are left the mountains.

And boys, be in nothing so moderate as in love of man, a clever servant, insufferable master.

There is the trap that catches noblest spirits, that caught—they say-God, when he walked on earth.

Shine, Republic

The quality of these trees, green height; of the sky, shining, of water, a clear flow; of the rock, hardness

And reticence: each is noble in its quality. The love of freedom has been the quality of Western man.

There is a stubborn torch that flames from Marathon to Concord, its dangerous beauty binding three ages

Into one time; the waves of barbarism and civilization have eclipsed but have never quenched it.

For the Greeks the love of beauty, for Rome of ruling; for the present age the passionate love of discovery;

But in one noble passion we are one; and Washington, Luther, Tacitus, Aeschylus, one kind of man.

And you, America, that passion made you. You were not born to prosperity, you were born to love freedom.

You did not say “en masse,” you said “independence.” But we cannot have all the luxuries and freedom also.

Freedom is poor and laborious; that torch is not safe but hungry, and often requires blood for its fuel.

You will tame it against it burn too clearly, you will hood it like a kept hawk, you will perch it on the wrist of Caesar.

But keep the tradition, conserve the forms, the observances, keep the spot sore. Be great, carve deep your heel-marks.

The states of the next age will no doubt remember you, and edge their love of freedom with contempt of luxury.

section-0_1_37aee774e71807ea_2890

MARIANNE MOORE (1887-1972)

Dubbed the “poet’s poet” for the technical complexity of her work, Moore was also a teacher, an assistant at the New York Public Library, and the editor of the influential literary magazine The Dial.

Poetry

I, too, dislike it: there are things that are important beyond all this fiddle.

Reading it, however, with a perfect contempt for it, one discovers in

it after all, a place for the genuine. 

Hands that can grasp, eyes 

that can dilate, hair that can rise 

if it must, these things are important not because a

high-sounding interpretation can be put upon them but because they are

useful. When they become so derivative as to become unintelligible,

the same thing may be said for all of us, that we 

do not admire what 

we cannot understand: the bat 

holding on upside down or in quest of something to

eat, elephants pushing, a wild horse taking a roll, a tireless wolf under

a tree, the immovable critic twitching his skin like a horse that feels a flea, the base-

ball fan, the statistician—

nor is it valid 

to discriminate against ‘business documents and

school-books’; all these phenomena are important. One must make a distinction

however: when dragged into prominence by half poets, the result is not poetry,

nor till the poets among us can be 

‘literalists of 

the imagination’—above 

insolence and triviality and can present

for inspection, imaginary gardens with real toads in them, shall we have

it. In the meantime, if you demand on the one hand,

the raw material of poetry in 

all its rawness and 

that which is on the other hand 

genuine, you are interested in poetry.

section-0_1_e059c5caf3774537_2891

T. S. ELIOT (1888-1965)

Eliot’s poems—and especially his fragmented, complex, and highly allusive Waste Land—helped define the modernist movement and twentieth-century poetry as a whole. The only American-born poet to win the Nobel Prize for Literature (1948), Eliot had assumed British citizenship by the time the prize was awarded.

The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock

S‘io credesse che mia risposta fosse

A persona che mai tornasse al mondo,

Questa fiamma staria senza pill scosse.

Ma perciocche giammai di questo fondo

Non torno vivo alcun, s’i‘odo il vero,

Senza tema d’infamia ti rispondo.

Dante Alighieri, Inferno

Let us go then, you and I, 

When the evening is spread out against the sky 

Like a patient etherised upon a table; 

Let us go, through certain half-deserted streets, 

The muttering retreats 

Of restless nights in one-night cheap hotels 

And sawdust restaurants with oyster-shells: 

Streets that follow like a tedious argument 

Of insidious intent 

To lead you to an overwhelming question ...

Oh, do not ask, “What is it?” 

Let us go and make our visit.

In the room the women come and go 

Talking of Michelangelo.

The yellow fog that rubs its back upon the window-panes, 

The yellow smoke that rubs its muzzle on the window-panes, 

Licked its tongue into the corners of the evening, 

Lingered upon the pools that stand in drains, 

Let fall upon its back the soot that falls from chimneys, 

Slipped by the terrace, made a sudden leap, 

And seeing that it was a soft October night, 

Curled once about the house, and fell asleep.

And indeed there will be time 

For the yellow smoke that slides along the street, 

Rubbing its back upon the window-panes; 

There will be time, there will be time 

To prepare a face to meet the faces that you meet; 

There will be time to murder and create, 

And time for all the works and days of hands 

That lift and drop a question on your plate; 

Time for you and time for me, 

And time yet for a hundred indecisions, 

And for a hundred visions and revisions, 

Before the taking of a toast and tea.

In the room the women come and go 

Talking of Michelangelo.

And indeed there will be time 

To wonder, “Do I dare?” and, “Do I dare?” 

Time to turn back and descend the stair, 

With a bald spot in the middle of my hair—

(They will say: “How his hair is growing thin!”) 

My morning coat, my collar mounting firmly to the chin, 

My necktie rich and modest, but asserted by a simple pin—

(They will say: “But how his arms and legs are thin!”) 

Do I dare 

Disturb the universe? 

In a minute there is time 

For decisions and revisions which a minute will reverse.

For I have known them all already, known them all—

Have known the evenings, mornings, afternoons, 

I have measured out my life with coffee spoons; 

I know the voices dying with a dying fall 

Beneath the music from a farther room. 

So how should I presume?

And I have known the eyes already, known them all—

The eyes that fix you in a formulated phrase, 

And when I am formulated, sprawling on a pin, 

When I am pinned and wriggling on the wall, 

Then how should I begin 

To spit out all the butt-ends of my days and ways? 

And how should I presume?

And I have known the arms already, known them all—

Arms that are braceleted and white and bare 

(But in the lamplight, downed with light brown hair!) 

Is it perfume from a dress 

That makes me so digress? 

Arms that lie along a table, or wrap about a shawl. 

And should I then presume? 

And how should I begin?

Shall I say, I have gone at dusk through narrow streets 

And watched the smoke that rises from the pipes 

Of lonely men in shirt-sleeves, leaning out of windows? ...

I should have been a pair of ragged claws 

Scuttling across the floors of silent seas.

And the afternoon, the evening, sleeps so peacefully! 

Smoothed by long fingers, 

Asleep ... tired ... or it malingers, 

Stretched on the floor, here beside you and me. 

Should I, after tea and cakes and ices, 

Have the strength to force the moment to its crisis? 

But though I have wept and fasted, wept and prayed, 

Though I have seen my head (grown slightly bald) brought in upon a 

platter, 

I am no prophet—and here’s no great matter; 

I have seen the moment of my greatness flicker,

And I have seen the eternal Footman hold my coat, and snicker, 

And in short, I was afraid.

And would it have been worth it, after all, 

After the cups, the marmalade, the tea, 

Among the porcelain, among some talk of you and me, 

Would it have been worth while, 

To have bitten off the matter with a smile, 

To have squeezed the universe into a ball 

To roll it toward some overwhelming question, 

To say: “I am Lazarus, come from the dead, 

Come back to tell you all, I shall tell you all”—

If one, settling a pillow by her head, 

Should say: “That is not what I meant at all. 

That is not it, at all.”

And would it have been worth it, after all, 

Would it have been worth while, 

After the sunsets and the dooryards and the sprinkled streets, 

After the novels, after the teacups, after the skirts that trail along the 

floor—

And this, and so much more?—

It is impossible to say just what I mean! 

But as if a magic lantern threw the nerves in patterns on a screen: 

Would it have been worth while 

If one, settling a pillow or throwing off a shawl, 

And turning toward the window, should say: 

“That is not it at all, 

That is not what I meant, at all.”

No! I am not like Prince Hamlet, nor was meant to be; 

Am an attendant lord, one that will do 

To swell a progress, start a scene or two, 

Advise the prince; no doubt, an easy tool, 

Deferential, glad to be of use, 

Politic, cautious, and meticulous; 

Full of high sentence, but a bit obtuse; 

At times, indeed, almost ridiculous—

Almost, at times, the Fool.

I grow old ... I grow old ... 

I shall wear the bottoms of my trousers rolled. 

Shall I part my hair behind? Do I dare to eat a peach? 

I shall wear white flannel trousers, and walk upon the beach. 

I have heard the mermaids singing, each to each.

I do not think that they will sing to me.

I have seen them riding seaward on the waves 

Combing the white hair of the waves blown back 

When the wind blows the water white and black.

We have lingered in the chambers of the sea 

By sea-girls wreathed with seaweed red and brown 

Till human voices wake us, and we drown.

section-0_1_fd855c93db4150ab_2892

CLAUDE MCKAY (1890-1948)

Born in Jamaica, McKay came to America to study and remained to write. His poetry collection Harlem Shadows is thought by many critics to have inaugurated the Harlem Renaissance.

After the Winter

Some day, when trees have shed their leaves

And against the morning’s white

The shivering birds beneath the eaves

Have sheltered for the night,

We’ll turn our faces southward, love,

Toward the summer isle

Where bamboos spire the shafted grove

And wide-mouthed orchids smile.

And we will seek the quiet hill

Where towers the cotton tree,

And leaps the laughing crystal rill,

And works the droning bee.

And we will build a cottage there

Beside an open glade,

With black-ribbed bluebells blowing near,

And ferns that never fade.

If We Must Die

If we must die, let it not be like hogs 

Hunted and penned in an unglorious spot, 

While round us bark the mad and hungry dogs, 

Making their mock at our accursed lot. 

If we must die—oh, let us nobly die, 

So that our precious blood may not be shed 

In vain; then even the monsters we defy 

Shall be constrained to honor us though dead! 

Oh, Kinsmen! we must meet the common foe; 

Though far outnumbered, let us show us brave, 

And for their thousand blows deal one death-blow! 

What though before us lies the open grave? 

Like men we’ll face the murderous, cowardly pack, 

Pressed to the wall, dying, but fighting back!

The Tropics in New York

Bananas ripe and green, and gingerroot,

Cocoa in pods and alligator pears,

And tangerines and mangoes and grapefruit,

Fit for the highest prize at parish fairs,

Set in the window, bringing memories

Of fruit trees laden by low-singing rills,

And dewy dawns, and mystical blue skies

In benediction over nunlike hills.

My eyes grew dim, and I could no more gaze;

A wave of longing through my body swept,

And, hungry for the old, familiar ways,

I turned aside and bowed my head and wept.

section-0_1_b30dcb90e9b196b2_2893

EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY (1892-1950)

Millay’s poem “Renascence,” published when she was twenty, brought her national attention. One of this century’s masters of the sonnet form, she was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 1923.

First Fig

My candle burns at both ends;

It will not last the night;

But ah, my foes, and oh, my friends—

It gives a lovely light.

Recuerdo

We were very tired, we were very merry—

We had gone back and forth all night on the ferry. 

It was bare and bright, and smelled like a stable—

But we looked into a fire, we leaned across a table, 

We lay on a hill-top underneath the moon; 

And the whistles kept blowing, and the dawn came soon.

We were very tired, we were very merry—

We had gone back and forth all night on the ferry; 

And you ate an apple, and I ate a pear, 

From a dozen of each we had bought somewhere; 

And the sky went wan, and the wind came cold, 

And the sun rose dripping, a bucketful of gold.

We were very tired, we were very merry, 

We had gone back and forth all night on the ferry. 

We hailed, “Good-morrow, mother!” to a shawl-covered head, 

And bought a morning paper, which neither of us read; 

And she wept, “God bless you!” for the apples and pears, 

And we gave her all our money but our subway fares.

section-0_1_93ec4cebbb589a69_2894

ARCHIBALD MACLEISH (1892-1982)

MacLeish won three Pulitzer prizes for his work as a poet and dramatist. An editor at Fortune magazine, he was also Librarian of Congress from 1939 until 1944, and Assistant Secretary of State from 1944 to 1945.

Ars Poetica

A poem should be palpable and mute 

As a globed fruit

Dumb 

As old medallions to the thumb

Silent as the sleeve-worn stone 

Of casement ledges where the moss has grown—

A poem should be wordless 

As the flight of birds

A poem should be motionless in time 

As the moon climbs

Leaving, as the moon releases 

Twig by twig the night-entangled trees,

Leaving, as the moon behind the winter leaves, 

Memory by memory the mind—

A poem should be motionless in time 

As the moon climbs

A poem should be equal to: 

Not true

For all the history of grief 

An empty doorway and a maple leaf

For love 

The leaning grasses and two lights above the sea—

A poem should not mean 

But be

The End of the World

Quite unexpectedly as Vasserot 

The armless ambidextrian was lighting 

A match between his great and second toe 

And Ralph the lion was engaged in biting 

The neck of Madame Sossman while the drum 

Pointed, and Teeny was about to cough 

In waltz-time swinging Jocko by the thumb—

Quite unexpectedly the top blew off:

And there, there overhead, there, there, hung over 

Those thousands of white faces, those dazed eyes, 

There in the starless dark the poise, the hover, 

There with vast wings across the canceled skies, 

There in the sudden blackness, the black pall 

Of nothing, nothing, nothing—nothing at all.

section-0_1_32898aae4071c68a_2895

E. E. CUMMINGS (1894-1962)

Unconventional in their spelling, punctuation, and typography, Cummings’ poems are among the most lyrical and imaginative produced in this century. His first book, The Enormous Room (1922), was a novel based on his experience in a French prison during World War I.

since feeling is first

since feeling is first 

who pays any attention 

to the syntax of things 

will never wholly kiss you;

wholly to be a fool 

while Spring is in the world 

my blood approves, 

and kisses are a better fate 

than wisdom 

lady i swear by all flowers. Don’t cry 

—the best gesture of my brain is less than 

your eyelids’ flutter which says

we are for each other:then 

laugh,leaning back in my arms 

for life’s not a paragraph

And death i think is no parenthesis

section-0_1_d655e49d6db13da_2896

JEAN TOOMER (1894-1967)

In Cane (1922), one of the essential works of the Harlem Renaissance, Toomer used a mixture of fiction, drama, and poetry (including the following works) to investigate the sensibility of blacks in both rural and urban settings.

Her Lips Are Copper Wire

whisper of yellow globes 

gleaming on lamp-posts that sway 

like bootleg licker drinkers in the fog

and let your breath be moist against me 

like bright beads on yellow globes

telephone the power-house 

that the main wires are insulate 

(her words play softly up and down 

dewy corridors of billboards)

then with your tongue remove the tape 

and press your lips to mine 

till they are incandescent

Reapers

Black reapers with the sound of steel on stones 

Are sharpening scythes. I see them place the hones 

In their hip-pockets as a thing that’s done, 

And start their silent swinging, one by one. 

Black horses drive a mower through the weeds, 

And there, a field rat, startled, squealing bleeds, 

His belly close to ground. I see the blade, 

Blood-stained, continue cutting weeds and shade.

section-0_1_99cb9170cf249ec4_2897

LANGSTON HUGHES (1902-1967)

Hughes was drawn to New York by its role as the crucible of black cultural activity. The work he produced there—including poetry that wedded traditional poetic forms to jazz and the blues—won him the sobriquet “the bard of Harlem.”

Dream Deferred (Harlem)

What happens to a dream deferred?

Does it dry up 

like a raisin in the sun? 

Or fester like a sore—

And then run? 

Does it stink like rotten meat? 

Or crust and sugar over—

like a syrupy sweet?

Maybe it just sags 

like a heavy load.

Or does it explode?

I, Too

I, too, sing America.

I am the darker brother. 

They send me to eat in the kitchen 

When company comes, 

But I laugh, 

And eat well, 

And grow strong.

Tomorrow, 

I’ll be at the table 

When company comes. 

Nobody’ll dare 

Say to me, 

“Eat in the kitchen,” 

Then.

Besides, 

They’ll see how beautiful I am 

And be ashamed—

I, too, am America.

Little Old Letter

It was yesterday morning 

I looked in my box for mail. 

The letter that I found there 

Made me turn right pale.

Just a little old letter, 

Wasn’t even one page long—

But it made me wish 

I was in my grave and gone.

I turned it over, 

Not a word writ on the back. 

I never felt so lonesome 

Since I was born black.

Just a pencil and paper, 

You don’t need no gun nor knife— 

A little old letter 

Can take a person’s life.

Mother to Son

Well, son, I’ll tell you: 

Life for me ain’t been no crystal stair. 

It’s had tacks in it, 

And splinters, 

And boards torn up, 

And places with no carpet on the floor—

Bare. 

But all the time 

I‘se been a-climbin’ on, 

And reachin’ landin’s, 

And turnin’ corners, 

And sometimes goin’ in the dark 

Where there ain’t been no light. 

So boy, don’t you turn back. 

Don’t you set down on the steps 

’Cause you finds it’s kinder hard. 

Don’t you fall now—

For I‘se still goin’, honey, 

I‘se still climbin’, 

And life for me ain’t been no crystal stair.

The Negro Speaks of Rivers

I’ve known rivers:

I’ve known rivers ancient as the world and older than the flow of human blood in human veins.

My soul has grown deep like the rivers.

I bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young.

I built my hut near the Congo and it lulled me to sleep.

I looked upon the Nile and raised the pyramids above it.

I heard the singing of the Mississippi when Abe Lincoln went down to New Orleans, and I’ve seen its muddy bosom turn all golden in the sunset.

I’ve known rivers: Ancient, dusky rivers.

My soul has grown deep like the rivers.

Still Here

I’ve been scarred and battered. 

My hopes the wind done scattered. 

Snow has friz me, sun has baked me. 

Looks like between ‘em 

They done tried to make me 

Stop laughin’, stop lovin’, stop livin’—

But I don’t care! 

I’m still here!

section-0_1_67cb7ccaf4294218_2898

COUNTEE CULLEN (1903-1946)

Although he wished to be known primarily “as a poet and not as a Negro poet,” Cullen often explored themes of prejudice and racial identity in his work. From 1934 until his death he was a teacher in the New York City public schools.

For Paul Laurence Dunbar

Born of the sorrowful of heart,

Mirth was a crown upon his head;

Pride kept his twisted lips apart

In jest, to hide a heart that bled.

Incident

Once riding in old Baltimore,

Heart-filled, head-filled with glee,

I saw a Baltimorean

Keep looking straight at me.

Now I was eight and very small,

And he was no whit bigger,

And so I smiled, but he poked out

His tongue, and called me, “Nigger.”

I saw the whole of Baltimore

From May until December;

Of all the things that happened there

That’s all that I remember.

section-0_1_d6274854f46d4301_2899

W. H. AUDEN (1907-1973)

Auden, an Englishman by birth, moved to America in 1939, becoming a citizen in 1946. One of the most influential of modern poets, he won the Pulitzer Prize in 1948.

The Unknown Citizen

(To JS/07/M/378 This Marble Monument Is Erected by the State)

He was found by the Bureau of Statistics to be 

One against whom there was no official complaint, 

And all the reports on his conduct agree 

That, in the modern sense of an old-fashioned word, he was a saint, 

For in everything he did he served the Greater Community. 

Except for the War till the day he retired 

He worked in a factory and never got fired 

But satisfied his employers, Fudge Motors Inc. 

Yet he wasn’t a scab or odd in his views, 

For his Union reports that he paid his dues, 

(Our report on the Union shows it was sound) 

And our Social Psychology workers found 

That he was popular with his mates and liked a drink. 

The Press are convinced that he bought a paper every day 

And that his reactions to advertisements were normal in every way. 

Policies taken out in his name prove that he was fully insured, 

And his Health-card shows he was once in hospital but left it cured. 

Both Producers Research and High-Grade Living declare 

He was fully sensible to the advantages of the Installment Plan 

And had everything necessary to the Modern Man, 

A phonograph, a radio, a car and a frigidaire. 

Our researchers into Public Opinion are content 

That he held the proper opinions for the time of the year; 

When there was peace, he was for peace; when there was war, he went. 

He was married and added five children to the population, 

Which our Eugenist says was the right number for a parent of his gen eration. 

And our teachers report that he never interfered with their education.

Was he free? Was he happy? The question is absurd: 

Had anything been wrong, we should certainly have heard.

section-0_1_2104ea6a4ec69aa8_289a

1   The first and last stanzas of “Song of Myself” are excerpted here.